





7 * 



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1882. 



publication com3iittee: 



Joseph Leidt, M. D., Geo. H, Horn, M. D., 



Edward J. Xolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redpield. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADKMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S.W. Corner Nineteenth ami Race Streets, 



18 8 3. 



7^ 




ACABEMY 01" NATTJRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



February 28, 1883. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1882 have 

 been presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows :— 



PHILADELPHIA! 



W. P. KiLDARE, Printer. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Allen, Harrison. The Muscles of the Limbs of the Raccoon (Procyon 



lotor) 115 



Arango, Rafael. Descriptions of new species of Terrestrial Mollusca 



of Cuba 105 



Cope, E. D. On Uintatheriura Bathmodou and Triisodon 294 



Day, L. T. The species of Odontomya found in the United States. ... 74 



Eastlake, T. W. Conchologia Hongkongensis 331 



Heilprin, Augelo. On the Relative Ages and Classification of the 



Post- Eocene Tertiary Deposits of the Atlantic Slope 150 



On the Occurrence of Nummulitic Deposits in Florida and the 



Association of Nummulites with a Fresh-water Fauna 189 



On the Age of the Tejon Rocks of California and the occurrence 



of Ammonitic Remains in Tertiary Deposits 196 



On the Value of the " Nearctic " as one of the Primary Zoological 



Regions , 316 



Julien. Alexis A. The Genesis of the Crystalline Iron Ores 335 



Keller, H. A. Titaniferous Garnet 54 



Leidy, Joseph. Rotifera without Rotary Organs 243 



Lewis, H. Carvill. Some Enclosures in Muscovite 311 



McCook, Rev. Henry C. Snai-es of Orb-weaving Spiders 254 



Ants as Beneficial Insecticides 263 



Mohr, Charles. Rhus cotinoides Nutt 217 



Newberry, J. S. On the supposed Tertiary Ammonites 194 



Rand, Theo. D. Notes on the Geology of Radnor and vicinity 42 



Notes on the Geology of Lower Merion and vicinity 61 



Reinhold, Eli S. On Diorite 59 



Ruschenberger, "W. S. W. Notice of Dr. Robert Bridges 226 



Smith, Aubrey H. A new Station for Corema Conradii Torr 35 



Stearns, Robert E. C. Verification of the Habitat of Conrad's Mytilus 



bifurcatus 241 



Swain, Joseph. A Review of Swainson's Genera of Fishes 272 



An Identification of the Species of Fishes described in Shaw's 



General Zoology 303 



Williams, Henry S. New Crinoids from the rocks of the Chemung 



Period of New York State 17 





^: 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



188Q. 



January 3, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Jos. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



Fruitinq of Ginko biloba. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to 

 some specimens of this plant {Salisburia adiantifolia of Smith 

 and other authors subsequent to Linnjeus) which had been borne 

 by a tree on the grounds of Mr. Chas. J. Wister, of Germantown. 

 The tree was far removed from any other flowering tree, which 

 aflTorded good grounds for the belief that this specimen was 

 hermaphrodite. In botanical classiftcation the genus was accepted 

 as of dioecious character. Sexual characters were, however, among 

 the most unreliable. There would be nothing improbable in a 

 tree bearing wholly male or wholl}^ female flowers as a general 

 rule, changing so far as to have both on one tree. Cases of this 

 kind were not uncommon in Acer dasycarpum, and other decid- 

 uous trees, and, he believed, probable in the red cedar, Janiperus 

 virginiana, an ally of the Ginko. In this cedar there were often 

 trees met with which were wholly male in most seasons, but on 

 which occasional berries might be seen ; while other trees, usuall^'^ 

 so abundant] 3' fertile as to be almost covered with blue berries, 

 would occasionall}' have many more male flowers than usual. In 

 Rubiaceons plants, where dimorphic flowers were so common — 

 the short-stjded ones and the short-stamened ones being on distinct 

 plants, and practically dioecious — there were cases of change at 

 times. The white-berried Mitchella repens which were gi'owing on 

 his grounds, apart from the red-berried variety, had not produced a 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



berry until last year, when a few were produced ; and the short- 

 styled Bouvordia.1 so common in greenhouses, and with short 

 styles, had produced a branch on one plant under his observation 

 the past winter, which had the st^des projecting beyond the corolla. 

 In annual plants the variation in sexual characters was well known 

 to vary, even with external conditions. Ambrosia arteviisisefolia, 

 the common rag-weed, produces mostly male flowers in poor soil, 

 or when growing thickly together in wheat fields after the grain 

 is cut; but when growing in the richer soil of potato or Indian- 

 corn fields, the increase of female flowers is very marked. 

 Sometimes plants under these conditions ate found wholly 

 female. Indian-corn also varies through some innate law. Male 

 flowers are not uncommon on the spikes which bear the grain, 

 while grain among the males, or "tassels," showed the occasional 

 presence of female flowers there. It is more than likely that 

 complete dioecism, claimed for some Asiatic coniferae, does not 

 realh' exist. 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin remarked that fruit had been found on 

 this tree recently in the Central Park, New York ; and that bees 

 might carrv the pollen long distances, and fertilize female flowers. 

 It did not follow that the presence of fruit on isolated trees 

 inA'olved monoecism. 



Mr. Redfield observed that pollen from the large male tree, 

 three-quarters of a centurj' old, at the old Hamilton homestead, 

 now Woodlands Cemetery, and but six miles away in a direct line, 

 might be wafted by winds to ^Ir. Wister's tree in Germantown. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, remarked that pollen from 

 coniferous trees was known to be carried by winds to enormous 

 distances. 



Ttemarhs on some Rock Specimens. — Prof. Leidy remarked in 

 relation to the rock specimens presented by him this evening, 

 that most of them he had collected last summer on South 

 Mountain, ten miles from Wernersville, Berks Co., Pa. The 

 ridge consists of azoic rocks, mainly compact gneiss, often 

 obscurel}' stratified and regular or not folded or contorted. With 

 this is associated granite with little or no mica, and black sj-enite 

 mostl}' composed of hornblende with feldspar and quartz in fine 

 grains. The rocks in two localities of the vicinit^y are traversed 

 by dykes of basaltic trap. Potsdam sandstone flanks the 

 mountain on the eastern side, and this at the base is overlaid by 

 the lower Silurian limestone of the Lebanon Talley. The 

 specimens collected from exposures of the Potsdam sandstone 

 consist of quartzite, remarkable for their sharply defined character, 

 resembling in a manner cleavage fragments of orthoclase. The 

 form is due to jointing, which is rhomboidal. usually in two 

 directions crossing the planes of stratification, but also frequentlj^ 

 parallel with the latter- Occasionally the jointing presents other 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



planes ; thus one of the specimens, the size of an ordinary hrick 

 exhibits planes due to jointing in five different directions. 



Incidentally to the foregoing, Prof. Leidy said that it would be 

 an interesting subject of investigation to trace the source of the 

 materials of the gravel on which our city is built. Everywhere of 

 a red color due to the peroxidizing of the iron of the rocks from 

 which the gravel has been derived, the basis of this latter is 

 mainly siliceous. Many of the siliceous pebbles, from a small size 

 to boulders approximating a ton in weight, a]ipear to have been 

 derived from the Potsdam sandstone, north of the city. They 

 commonh' have the same quartzite constitution ; and in their 

 irregularly rectangular and rhomboidal form, with borders and 

 angles rounded by attrition, they exhibit the jointed condition of 

 the Potsdam rocks. In earlier days when he learned that quartz 

 belonged to the rhomboidal system, but exhibited no disposition 

 to cleavage, he thought that the rhomboidal quartz jiebbles of our 

 gravel were examples showing a tendency to crystalline cleaA'age. 

 Some of the quartzite pebbles, like portions of the Potsdam rocks, 

 are of so comi)act a character, and banded in structure, that when 

 polished they look like chalcedony, as exemplified by a specimen 

 picked up on the Delaware shore. 



Other pebbles of milky, smoky, and other quartz appear to have 

 been derived from quartz veins of our neighboring gneiss I'ockvS. 



Black pebbles found in the gravel used in the construction of 

 the bed of the junction railroad just north of the city, and 

 collected as sjiecimens of basanite or touchstone, appear to be 

 hornstone or chert, like that in the lower Silurian limestone at 

 Easton. Numerous pebbles of the same kind are found on the 

 Delaware shore at the latter place. Limestone itself appears to 

 form no conspicuous element of our gi'avels. Though abimdant 

 in the same sources of supply of the common ingredients of the 

 gravels, its fragments have been completely dissolved awaj'. 

 Occasionally he had seen in the interior of a freshly broken 

 pebble of black hornstone, such as one presented this evening, 

 minute rhombohedrons of calcite. while on the exterior minute 

 caAities of the same form shoAv where similar crystals have lieen 

 dissolved. 



Pebbles of red sandstones and shales are frequent elements of 

 our gravel, and have evidently been derived from the triassic rocks, 

 so abundantly exhibited north of the city. Pebbles of compact 

 quartz conglomerate are less frequent, and may probably have 

 been derived from the same source, or perhaps from the coal 

 measures farther north. 



Irregular pebbles of various sizes, of a variety of granite, consist- 

 ing of quartz with conspicuously large crystals of muscovite mica, 

 occur in some localities, as in "West Philadelphia, but a similar 

 rock in place is unknown to him. The exposed sides of the mica 

 crystals, worn into hollows of the quartz, appear so compact, 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



that one would hardly suspect their character without seeing the 

 cleavage surfaces. 



Fossils of any kind are extremely rare in the gravel of our 

 immediate vicinity, and in the course of a lifetime he had picked 

 up less than half a dozen quartzose pebbles pseudomorphic of a 

 coral like Favosites, and with some obscure brachiopod impressions. 



In the locality, from which the jointed specimens of quartzite 

 of the Potsdam sandstone presented this evening were collected, 

 he looked in vain for Scolifhus linearis, viewed as a characteristic 

 fossil of this formation. Some miles further off, near Sheridan 

 Station, where an exposure of the same rock was less metamor- 

 phosed, and in part consisted of friable sand, he picked up a 

 single specimen which contained the fossil. 



January 10, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



Three more Fresh-water Sponges. — Mr. Edw. Potts had de- 

 scribed in the Proceedings under date of July 26, 1881, a new 

 species of Carterella, C. latitenta ; his later identified findings 

 during that year are here mentioned. 



Meyenia crateri forma. This sponge, first found during Sep- 

 tember, 1881, in tlie Brandy wine, near Chadd's Ford, is of very 

 delicate structure. Its framework of skeleton spicules is exceed- 

 ingly^ meagre and slightly bound together, scarce!}' amounting 

 to a system of meshes and polyhedral interspaces as in most other 

 sponges ; and as a consequence we find the numerous small white 

 statospheres lying in recesses far larger than themselves, freely 

 exposed to view from the upper or outer side of the sponge. This 

 trait is only seen in the thinnest of encrusting sponges. 



The skeleton spicules ma}' be described as acerate, gradually 

 sharp-pointed, sparsely and very minutely microspined. Witli 

 these were mingled smaller and more slender forms, which maybe 

 an earlier stage of the same, or perhaps are dermal s|)icules; but 

 beside these may be seen upon the undisturbed surface of the 

 sponge two other forms — one, cylindrical, slender, with truncate 

 ends — the other similar in all respects to the long birotulates 

 which surround the statospheres. The last have most probably 

 been misplaced from their normal position. 



The birotulate spicules surrounding the statospheres, as com- 

 pared with those of any other described sponges, and with tlie diam- 

 eter of their own rotules, are relatively very long. The diameter 

 of the completed statospliere is to that of the contained chitinous 

 body, about as 10 to 1, and the diameter of the rotules, while per- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. • 13 



haps double that of the shaft, is onl}' from one-fifth to one-seventh 

 of their length. A numlier of long, sharp spines occur near each 

 extremit_v of the shaft. These birotulates are disposed, as is usual, 

 very regularly and densely upon the surface of the chitinousbody ; 

 one end of each being thus supported, the other forming a second 

 or outer coat or surface. One peculiarit3', however, of their arrange- 

 ment has suggested the specific name now given. In most other 

 species the length of the foraminal tube is fixed, or ai)proximately 

 indicated, by the thickness of the spiculiferous coat, which closes 

 up around and against it. In this, however, on account of the 

 unusual length of the spicules and their necessary radial direction, 

 a space is left about the foramen, in the centre of which the tubule 

 appears as an elongated cone ; the whole having the api)earance 

 of a volcanic crater. In mounted specimens, probably as a result 

 of violence in making sections of the statoblasts, these spicules 

 frequently deviate from a direct radial position and cross each 

 other's lines in a curious manner. This sponge has also been 

 found in the Schuylkill River and in some of its smaller branches. 



Heteromeyenia Ryderii. This beautiful green sponge has, as 

 yet, only been found in a branch of Cobb's Creek, a small stream 

 whose waters reach the Delaware River below Philadelphia. It 

 occupied the upper surface of large stones in the bed of the 

 stream; some of the patches being four or five inches in 

 diameter and about one-fourth of an inch thick. The surface is 

 somewhat irregular, occasionally rising into rounded lobes. The 

 efferent canals are deeply channeled in the upper surface of the 

 sponge ; five or six sometimes converging to a common orifice. 



The skeleton spicules are stout, cylindrical, slightly curved, 

 gradually sharp-pointed, conspicuously spined, excepting at the 

 extremities ; spines conical, sharp-pointed ; when largest often 

 curving forward or towards the adjacent ends of the spicules. As 

 is generally the case with spined skeletcn spicules, they are but 

 slightly fasciculated ; being mostl}' arranged in a simple series, 

 single spicules meeting or diverging from other spicules, thus 

 forming a delicate network, supporting the sponge flesh. With 

 these are mingled a few, more slender, smooth spicules which may 

 be immature, or the true dermal spicules of the sponge. 



The statospheres are numerous, rather small, surrounded firat 

 by a series of birotulates, short, stout, the rotula? about equal in 

 diameter to the length of the shaft. The shafts are cylindrical or 

 somewhat wider toward the rotules, having frequently one or more 

 long spines near the centi-e. Margins of the rotulje marked with 

 an infinity of shallow cuts not amounting to notches. 



The second series of birotulates, which, more than in either of 

 the other species of this genus, marks this as a deviation from the 

 familiar Meyenia type, are very different from the first. They are 

 nearly double the length of the former, much fewer in number, 

 rather regularly interspersed among them ; the rotules are repre- 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1882. 



sented by six, eight or more short recurved hoolvs, at each end of 

 the shaft, which is cylindrical and studded witii numerous spines, 

 equal in lensth to the hooked rays of the rotulfe,and curving like 

 them from the extremities. This species is respectfully dedicated 

 by the discoverer to his friend, Mr. John A. Ryder, in acknowl- 

 edgment of much excellent advice, assistance and encouragement. 



TuBELLA Pennsylv vNiCA. The genus Tubella^ as established 

 by Mr. H. J. Carter, Feb. 1881, was represented by four species, 

 three originally described b}^ Dr. Bowerbank (as Spongillas),and 

 one by Mi-. Carter— all collected in tUe Amazon River, South 

 America. It does not appear that any liave been described from 

 other localities. It was thei-efore with much pleasure and some 

 surprise that while examining material collected at Lehigh Gap, 

 Pa., in November last, Mr, Potts came upon undoubted specimens 

 of the same genus. It differs from Meyenia in the fact that the 

 rotulae of the spicules surrounding the statospheres are of unequal 

 diameters ; the larger one being placed next the chitinous coat. 

 This species, whose peculiarities do not tall}' with those of any 

 of the four above mentioned, may be thus described : 



Sponge minute, encrusting, thin ; the skeleton s|)ioula3 arranged 

 in a simple series of single non-fasciculated si)icules, in the inter- 

 spaces of wliich the statospheres are abundant. 



Skeleton spicules very variable in size and shape, but all 

 entirely and coarsely spined ; rounded or abruptl}' pointed at the 

 extremitie-:. 



Dermal spicules absent or undetermined. 



Statospheres, numerous, small ; granular coating thin but 

 extending to oi- somewhat beyond the outer ends of the birotu- 

 lates. Length of the inequil)irotulates about equal to the diameter 

 of the larger disk, which is placed against the chitinous coat. 

 Margin of larger disk generally entire, sub-circular ; outer surface 

 flat, table-like, the margin sometimes slightly incurved. This 

 surface is not infrequently warped or twisted into an irregular out- 

 line. The outer disk, in the great majority of cases, is about one- 

 flfth the diameter of the inner, but varies from, say, one-sixth 

 to equality, which is, however, rarely observed. Its margin also 

 appears to b^; generally entii'e, but it is undoubtedly sometimes 

 divided into six or eight rays. The inner surface of the larger 

 disk is also occasionally marked with rib-like rays and still more 

 rarely the margin between the rays is wanting. 



These, as before slated, are all the species whose novelty has 

 been definitely determined ; but amongst the large amount of 

 material (tollected aie doubtless others, belonging to the genera 

 Sponrjilla and Mei/eiiia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are less 

 obvious, and where close study will be needed to define them. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PKILADELPUIA, 15 



January 17, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leedy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" New Crinoids from the Rocks of the Chemung Period of New 

 York State," by Henry S. Williams, Ph. D. 



" The Species of Odontomyia found in the United States," by 

 Dr. L. T. Day. 



" A New Station for Corema Conradii," by Aubrey H. Smith. 



January 24, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



The death of M. Jules Putzej's, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



The thanks of the Academy were ordered to be forwarded to 

 Mrs. S. J. Halderaan Hal3', for the gift of a portrait in oil of the 

 late Prof. S. S. Haldeman, by Waugh. 



Notes on Monazite. — Prof. George A. Konig announced the 

 identification of Monazite from the mica mine at Amelia Court 

 House, Va. It has occurred in several large masses, from fifteen 

 to twenty pounds in weight. One in the collection of Mr. 

 C. S. Bement exhibits two crystals, monoclinic combinations of 

 Poo. 00 P . <xPoo,with sides over 5 inches in length. Such 

 gigantic masses of this rare mineral have not heretofore been 

 reported. It occurs together with equally huge crystals of 

 microlite, fine crystals of columbite, of manganese tantalite, 

 amazonite, albite, apatite, smoky quartz, and beryl ; of the last 

 mineral a crystal was found, 25 inches in diameter and over 12 

 feet long. This monazite was supposed to be microlite or 

 scheelite. Two varieties have been identified by the speaker ; one 

 possessing an amber or brown color (transparent finely blood-red), 

 and giving a straw-colored powder like microlite. The other 

 variety is gray, with honey-j^ellow color in thin splinters, and 

 yields a greenish gray powder ; of the former the specific gravity 

 is 5.402 and 5.345 ; of the latter it is 5.138. 



When finely pulverized and mixed with two to three parts of 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



concentrated sulphuric acid, the mineral is decomposed very 

 quickl}' as soon as the temperature is brought to the boiling point 

 of sulphuric acid. The mass becomes a dry paste and dissolves 

 in water. The solution is turbid from a quantity of basic phos- 

 phates, varying between two and eighteen per cent., according to 

 the excess of acid present. 



The acid solution may be boiled without the forming of a 

 precipitate ; thorium is therefore not contained in the mineral. 

 Two determinations of the phosphoric acid gave 25.82 and 26.3 

 per cent., one being by phosphomolybdic acid ; the other in the 

 usual manner, after precipitating the bases first by oxalic acid, 

 and the filtrate by ammouic hj'drate. Fluorine is not present. 



The following is given as a preliminary result, pending the 

 tedious separation of the oxides : 



(Ce, La, Dy, Y), O, = 73.82 

 (Y, Fe, Ca)2 O3 == 1.00 



P2 O5 = 26.05 



Volatile by ignition ^= 0.45 



101.32 



Supposing the oxides to be all cerous oxide, or in other words 

 having the atomic weight of 92, the highest of the group, then the 

 ratio obtains 



P, O3 : 3 Ce O := 1 : 8.75, 



which is not reconcilable with a normal phosphate. 



The speaker suggests, therefore, the possible presence in the 

 group of a metal with a much higher atomic weight than cerium. 

 He is engaged at work with a large enough quantity of the oxides 

 to decide this question in time. 



January .81. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Eighteen persons present. 



Messrs. Wilson Mitchell, Chas. H. Hutchinson, Rev. W. G. 

 Holland, Able F. Price, Alfred C. Harrison and Robt. B. Haines 

 were elected members. 



Dr. A. Baltzer, of Zurich, and Prof Robt. Collett,of Christiania, 

 were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILADA. 1882. 



PL I. 





3 



a 





6 



5 



9 



8 



10 



rr?i:r'!**'-':;W"- 



WILLIAMS ON NEW CRINOIDS. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



NEW CEINOIDS FEOM THE BOCKS OF THE CHEMUNG PEEIOD OF NEW 



YORK STATE. 



BY HENRY S. WILLIAMS, PH. D. 



Hitherto the rocks of the Chemung period have furnished only 

 imperfect traces of crinoids. Joints of the stems are frequently 

 met with, in some places in great numbers, but we find mention 

 of only three crinoids in condition sufficiently perfect for specific 

 identification. 



Cyathocrinus ornatissimus was described b}- Professor Hall 

 in 1843 (Geol. Kept, of 4th Dist. X. Y. State, p. 247), from the 

 Portage group at Portland, shore of Lake Erie, N. Y., but the 

 description and figures leave the generic and family relations of 

 the species in doubt, and we find no mention of the name in the 

 exhaustive " Revision of Palieocrinoidea," of Wachsmuth and 

 Springer, 1879-1881. 



Taxocrinus (Forbesiocrinus) communis Hall and Whitfield, is 

 recognized in a specimen from the Chemung group at Forest- 

 ville, Chautauqua Co., N. Y. (see Palaeontology- of Ohio, vol. ii, 

 p. 170). The original locality for the species is the shales of the 

 Waverl}^ sandstone of Richfield. Summit Co., Ohio. 



A third species, Platycrinus Bedfordensis Hall and Whitfield, is 

 described from the upper part of the Erie shales of Ohio, which are 

 regarded by some good authorities as equivalents of the Portage 

 and Chemung rocks of New York. These three are the only 

 crinoids specifically- identified from rocks of the Chemung period, 

 or their equivalents, up to the present time. 



The specimens from which the following species have been 

 determined are mostly in the condition of moulds from which the 

 original substance of the fossil has been entire!}' removed, and in 

 such cases, casts of wax or gutta percha have been used in the 

 description of the species. 



In a few cases the material is in such an imperfect condition 

 that a proper specific diagnosis is impossible, and accordingly^ no 

 specific name has been assigned, although mention is made under 

 the generic name of such new characters as could ])e observed. 



In other cases a large number of individuals has been found in 

 a single locality, among which certain variations are noted, and 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



by comparison of all the specimens these variations are found to 

 he pure variations and not marks of distinct species. Crinoids 

 are generally so rare in individual specimens that it is believed 

 that any contribution to our knowledge of the direction and extent 

 of the variations among the individuals of a common species is 

 of value to palaeontologists. 



The author expresses his thanks to Mr. Charles Wachsmuth for 

 valuable suggestions and assistance in the identification of 

 genera, and to Profs. John M. Clarke and S. G. Williams for the 

 loan of specimens. 



The types of the species, not otherwise designated, are from the 

 author's collection, and will be placed on deposit in the museum 

 of Cornell Univ^ersity, Ithaca, X. Y. 



Poteriooriaus Co nelliaaus n. f. 1*1. I, figs. 1, 2 ami ?,. 



Calyx cup-shaped ; arms very long ; stem pentagonal and 

 expanding at the top, under the calyx. 



Underbasals small, difficult to distinguish from the final 

 segment of the st3m; junction between the several plates 

 indistinct and in line with ridges of the stem. 



Basals large, hexagonal, height and breadth subequal. 



Radials large, broad, longitudinally convex, and incurving 

 toward the vault, the edges of two adjacent radials forming a deep 

 groove which terminates upon the upper part of the basals. The 

 broad convex ridge, which begins on the radials, is continued in the 

 brachials and arms up to the first bifurcation, and is in direct line 

 with the five angular carinations of the upper part of the stem. 

 The upper margin of the radial, straight, broader than the first 

 brachial. 



The radial is succeeded b^- a single series of eight (or nine) 

 plates, of nearly uniform size, and dorsally with no lateral expan- 

 sion, strongly convex, the last plate angular above, and presenting 

 two oblique faces from which proceed two smaller arms. These 

 arms bifurcate a second time in the course of their length. The 

 general appearance is that these first eight plates above the radial 

 are brachials. But, we observe, from the ventral part of the sides 

 of each of these plates arise pinnules on alternate sides, beginning 

 with the third or second plate of the series. 



If, therefore, we regard the presence of pinnules as a mark of 

 the arm-plales, in distinction from brachials proper, we have 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



here two or three brachials followed by a single series of arm- 

 plates, six or seven in number (the number of these plates varies 

 for the rays of a single specimen), with strong pinnules from each 

 plate ; from the last of this series branch off two suboqual rays 

 which again bifurcate. 



The arms above the bifurcation are long and thickly beset with 

 pinnules, one from each joint ; occasionally a plate is intercalated 

 without a pinnule, but the pinnules retain their alternate order. 



In the middle and upper part of the arm the joints are some- 

 what produced on the side wiiere the pinnules arise. Anals, three 

 within the calyx ; the lowest touches two basals, the right posterior 

 radial and the second and third anals. The second anal lies upon 

 the left of the first and touches the left posterior radial. The 

 third anal is directh' above the first, and touches the radial on the 

 right, the second anal on the left, and is succeedetl b}' a series of 

 plates very similar (on the dorsal view) to the lower arm-plates, 

 but with no pinnule and with straight articular faces. This is the 

 ventral tube. This ventral tube is very long, apparently as long 

 as the arms, but more even in size throughout. 



In the typical specimen, w'hat is preserved of this tube is one- 

 third the length of the arms ; laterall3' it is beset on both sides by 

 a fringe, about the width of the plates themselves, of narrow 

 ridges and furrows perpendicular to the axis of the tube. There 

 are four to six of these furrows in the length of each plate, and 

 they continue uninterruptedly the whole length of the tube. In 

 another specimen the tube has been preserved lying mainly out- 

 side the arms, and thirty-one plates can be distinctly seen, making 

 a tube whose length is six times the diameter of the calyx ; the 

 final plate is about half the size of the first one, A study of the 

 specimens at command — although all but one are in the condition 

 of moulds in fine sandstone from Avhich the original material is 

 entirely removed, has enabled us to make out the general external 

 details of structure of this "tube." (PI. I, fig. 3, a, b, e, d.) 



The dorsal aspect is that of a cylinder, from a little below the 

 centre of which extend outward and downward lamellae which 

 on each side are continuous; the junction at each joint of the 

 plates is not visible, and transversely they are marked b^^ narrow 

 furrows. A section shows these fringe-like lamellae to be lateral 

 expansions of the axial plates, thickened at the outer margins and 

 on the ventral side terminating at a narrow, medium, longitudinal 




20 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



keel, which appears to be composed of two series of minute plates 

 alternately arranged. The transverse striae do not continue over 

 the outer margin to the ventral side, but reappear in the furrow 

 at the base of the ventral keel. 



This is all that can be determined from the specimens, which 

 show onl}- the outride cast of the tube. Whether the transverse 

 striie are marks of external furrows, or of narrow perforations, or 

 whether this be the whole of the tube, which was hollow, or an 

 axis upon which softer tissues were engaged, are indeterminate 

 from these specimens. 



Dimensions. — Stem,diam. at top, 3.0 mm., below, 28 mm.; calyx, 

 diara., 7.0 mm. ; arm at base, diam., 2.0 mm. ; primary radial series, 

 length, 5.1 mm. ; arms, length, 45.0 mm. ; arras, first five joints at 

 base, 6.-6.6 mm. 



Locality. — Ithaca, X. Y. 



Horizon. — Chemung group, 200 ft. above base. 



One of the finest specimens of this species was collected b}' Mr. 

 A. H. Cowles (C. U., '82), of Cleveland, Ohio, and presented to the 

 author. It is taken as the type of the species. 



The species is not uncommon, in the condition of stems and 

 fraumeuts, in Cornell Universitj^ quarry, and in the same stratum 

 at other outcrops, but the heads or even arms are very rare. 

 1 Poteiiocrinus "ji. prima). 



Two nearly perfect arras were found by the author on a 

 fragment of rock, from cliff's of the upper Portage, which dirt"er 

 from any species known, but are not enough for specific diagnosis. 

 The size and general appearance are those of Poteriocrinus Cornel- 

 lianus, but it differs in the arrangeraentof pinnules, which appear 

 regularly on each side frora every fourth joint. 



The pinnules are shorter and more slender than those of P. 

 Gornellianus. 



Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 



Horizon. — Portage group (?) ; from slab not in place but prob- 

 ably from this formation, or just above. 



' To avoid the necessity of establishing new specific, or varietal names 

 upon inadequate evidence, use is made of the denominations species prima, 

 sp. secunda, etc., under the appropriate genus, and varietns alpha, var, 

 beta, etc., under the appropriate species as a means of designating new 

 facts, whose taxonomic relationship cannot be satisfactorily determined 

 from the material at command. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Foteriocrinas Clarkei n. s. PI. I, fig. 4. 



Calyx obc'onical, small, gradually expanding from the top of 

 stem, which also gradually' expands and the calyx continues 

 evenly the rate of increase in size begun in the stem. 



The radials are very convex in the centre, making a conspicuous 

 enlargement at this point. » 



Underbasals of medium size, pentagonal, as high as wide. 



Basals large, hexagonal, higher than wide, and twice the height 

 of the underbasals. Kadials of medium size, truncate above, 

 irregularly' pentagonal, smaller than the basals, wider than high, 

 externally quite gibbous. 



Brachials, two for each ray. 



The first brachial short, cj^lindrical, with a straight margin 

 above and below, height and width equal, much narrower than 

 the radial; second brachial cylindrical, and at the base the same 

 size as the first brachial, but near the top it suddenlj'^ expands to 

 nearly double width, angular above, bearing two arms which do 

 not bifurcate. In one specimen one of the second brachials bears 

 three arms each of equal and normal size. 



The joints between the primary radial plates gap, as do also, in 

 some specimens, those of the arm-plates. 



The brachials are free, parallel, and separated by a s[)ace as 

 great as their diameter. 



The surface of the calyx is marked by two rows of depressions ; 

 the first is elongate, longitu iinally, its bottom lies along the 

 suture betweeu contiguous basals, takes in the point of the under- 

 basal and the lower part of the radial; near the top of this groove 

 is a horizontal ridge not reaching the general surface, but uniti4ig 

 the two walls of the groove, and it is more prominent in some 

 specimens than in others. 



In the second row, the depressions are smaller, triangular, 

 pointed below, and have their centres over the angle of meeting 

 of the basal and two approximate radials; each cavity extends 

 upon the edges of each of these three plates. 



Stem. above pentagonal with thin disks,below gradually becomes 

 cylindrical, and the disks elongate till their length equals half the 

 diameter, are not convex but form a smooth cylindrical stem ; from 

 this part cirri are frequent, standing at right-angles to the stem. 



Anals not known. 



This species resembles Pot. {Scaphiocrinua) Whitei Hall, '61, 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



]). 30(i, but differs in the longer body, column more rapidly expand- 

 ing at the top, larger calyx, the basals being larger in proportion, 

 and in the presence of two brachials instead of one ; also, the 

 arms do not branch, so far as determined from the specimens, and 

 the plates are not conspicuously prominent at the offset of the 

 pinnules. The surface markings are much alike in the two species, 

 but there are several other species similarly marked. 



Dimensions Calyx, height, a 4.5 ram., b 4.4 mm. ; width, a 



5.1 mm. h 5 ram. ; stem, diam. at base of calyx, a 2.4 mm., h 2.4 

 ram. ; diara. lower down, a 1.4. ram. ; i)rimar3' radial series, height, 

 a 5.2 rara., b 4.1 mm. ; first brachial, diam. a 1..3 mm,, b 1.2 mm. ; 

 first arm-plate, diam., a 1.1 mm., b 0.9 mm. ; first five arm- 

 plates, length, a 7.9 mm. 



Locality. — Haskinsville, Steuben Co., N. Y. 



Horizon. — Chemung group. 



Collected by, and named for, Prof. J. M. Clarke, of Sraith 

 College, Northampton, Mass. 



Poterioorinus Clarkei, var. alpha n. v. PI. T, fig. 5. 



This variety is based upon the impression of part of a calyx 

 found l)y the author at Ithaca, N. Y,, in the lower part of the 

 Chemung group. 



It is about twice as large as the Haskinsville specimens, and 

 the pittings of the surface are more strongly marked. The cross- 

 bar in the upper part of the long grooves is particularly strong in 

 comparison, but in shape and proportion of plates, the differences 

 are so slight that we provisionall}' regard this as a variety of 

 P. darker. 



Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 



Horizon. — Chemung group, lower part. 



Poteriocrinus (Decadocrinus) gregarius n. s. PI. T, tij^s. 6, 7, 8. 



Under basals minute. 



Basals hexagonal, twice the size of the underbasals, as wide as 

 high, the angles not sharply defined. 



Radials about same height as basals. but broader and pen- 

 tagonal, with the upper margin only slightl}' concave. 



First brachial four-sided, longer than broad, and expanding 

 toward the top, the upper margin conspicuously concave ; base, 

 same width as upper edges of radial. 



Second brachial pentagonal, base convex and narrow, breadth 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



increasing to the top, where the width is equal to the total height 

 of the plate, the two upper edges standing obliquely at about a 

 right-angle, and subconcave. 



Surface of calyx and arm-plates smooth and gently convex. 



The rapid enlargement of the consecutive series of plates up to 

 the brachials forms a low, expanded cup. The first plates of the 

 arm are a third smaller than the terminal part of the stem just 

 iHider the calyx. 



The arms are long, ten in number, and do not branch ; each arm- 

 plate bears a pinnule. Pinnules are arranged alternately on each 

 side of the stem, and occasionally a plate appears without pinnule, 

 but the alternate order of the pinnules is not broken. The first 

 five or six arm-plates are cylindrical, about the length of the last 

 brachial, and, dorsally, show little extension, either laterally, or 

 longitudinally at the point where the pinnules are attached, but 

 after the fifth, the side from wliich the pinnule starts is slightly 

 higher and extends laterally more than the other. The centre of 

 length of the arm of the fully developed individual is at the tenth 

 or twelfth plote, and here the plates are a third longer than their 

 average diameter, and the pinnules are strong, gradually tapering 

 to a point and composed of ten or twelve plates (or six to eight 

 in the shorter pinnules) ; the first one is about half the size of 

 the base of the arm-plate, from which it springs. 



The arms are spreading, and an occasional specimen is found 

 spread out radiately upon the surface of the slab. 



The anals. and succeeding plates of the ventral tube, are not 

 apparent on all specimens, but from examination of all the 

 material at hand, we conclude that the arrangement of the prox- 

 imal plates of the series is that normal to the genus Pofer^oc/•^/^l/s, 

 as defined by Wachsmuth and Springer, but the origin is 

 frequently higher up in the calyx. In several specimens the anals 

 do not reach the basals, but begin on the slopes of the two adjoin- 

 ing radials, which meet under them ; but one specimen, which 

 appears very well preserved, without distortion, has the normal 

 arrangement of anals, three plates being in contact with calyx 

 plates; the lowest lies a little to the right, between the adjacent, 

 upper, sloping edges of two basals ; above these anals can be 

 distinctly seen, three or four plates in each of the two series of 

 the ventral tube. The irregular position of the anals among the 

 cal3'x plates possibly may be accounted for by distortion of the 




24 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



specimen by pressure, but this is not self-evident, but inferred to 

 explain what appears to be abnormal. Attention is drawn to the 

 fact to show that species or genera established upon single or 

 few imperfect specimens are not always to be relied on. 



The stem is composed of discoid segments, externally convex 

 and serrate at their union ; arranged in two sets, one thinner than 

 the other, in alternate order. The difference is greatest near the 

 base of the calyx, where also the plates are thinnest ; the thick- 

 ness (or length) of the individual joints increases with distance 

 from the calj'x ; the size of the stem slighth' diminishes, and the 

 difference between the two sets becomes obliterated, until the 

 joints reach a length equal to their diameter, and the serrate 

 union is inconspicuous, the outer surfaces becoming very convex. 

 This latter is the common character of the central part of the 

 stems, the joints being subglobular and of uniform size. Slender 

 cirri proceed from all along the stem ; they have been observed 

 within an inch of the calyx, and are generally found rather closely 

 coiled at their ends. 



The upper part of the stem appears slightly pentagonal, but 

 the angles are rounded and within an inch of the base of the 

 calyx all trace of them is lost. 



Dimensions of type specimen — which are a little greater than 

 for the average of the specimens examined : Stem, diameter, 

 1.3 mm. ; cal3^x, width, 2.3 mm.; arms and body together, total 

 length, 21.6 mm. ; primary radial series, height, 3-3.3 mm.; second 

 brachial, wiJth, greatest, 1.4 mm., average, 1.2 mm. ; first five arm- 

 plates, length, 4.1 mm.; second five arm-plates, length, 5 1 mm. 



Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 



Horizon. — Chemung group, 130 feet above base. 



Three varieties are noted among the numerous specimens and 

 fragments taken from the same stratum with the tj'pe specimen. 



Yar. alpha is distinguished b^'^ its smaller size, and the arms 

 shorter, and composed of fewer, more slender plates. 



Those characters of the stem, peculiar to the terminal portion, 

 just under the cah'x, are seen for only a very short distance. 



The calyx and its plates do not differ, to any appreciable degree, 

 from those of the specific t^'pe, in number, arrangement, relative 

 size or shape. 



Yar. beta. The calyx is large, the plates well developed, the 

 stem as large as in the typical form, and up to the base of the 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHlLAt)ELPHTA. 25 



arms this variety appears identical with the tj'pe of the species, 

 but the arms are exceedingly short — not more than six plates 

 appearing in the longest arm preserved. 



One of the arms begins with two full-size plates, starting out, 

 and in shape, like the t3'pical form, but these plates are followed 

 by three very slender plates, the base of the first not filling 

 completely the facet at the top of the preceding one. The arm 

 adjoining it has one normal-sized plate, followed by four slender 

 plates. The other arms, as far as they can be examined, show a 

 like arrangement, and the explanation is unavoidable^ that the 

 original arms were broken otf, and were being replaced by new 

 arms not fully developed when growth and life were stopped and 

 the hard parts buried, and thus preserved to tell the story. 



Var. gamma. A third variety is worth mentioning. In general 

 characters it corresponds with var. alpha, but diflers conspicu- 

 ously in the plates of the ventral tube. At the base the anals 

 are arranged as in the normal specimen, while the upper part 

 appears to have special development. 



There appears on the right side of the norinal series of anal 

 plates, beginning about half way up, a third series of plates about 

 the same size as those at the corresponding height in the other 

 series. The series, beginning lowest down, thus becomes the 

 central one at the top, and eight plates can be counted in it. The 

 lateral series have fewer plates, and the upper jiart loses itself in 

 minute granulations at the base of the arms. 



This species, of which many specimens were taken from a small 

 locality, shows considerable variation in the length of the arms, 

 in the number, relative size and shape of the arm-joints, in the 

 character of the stem-joints at the base of the calyx and a short 

 distance below until the normal characters of the stem are reached, 

 and in the number and arrangement of the more distal i)art of 

 the plates following the anals. 



In these several respects the specimens under examination 

 present hardly two which are imiform,and single specimens show 

 more or less vai'iation in the several rays. 



There is also considerable difference among th6' specimens in the 

 relative shape of the calyx and in the general arrangement of the 

 arms, which is explained mainly by different degrees of, and 

 direction in, compression since the specimens were buried. 



The difference in the arms and arm-joints, we are led to believe, 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



is the effect of difference of age of the specimens. Thus, we 

 observe, in this species, that the smaller specimens have less 

 expansion of the stem at the top, the thin disk-like stem-joints 

 are limited to a shorter distance downward from the calyx ; the 

 arms are shorter, the arm-plates fewer, and more slender, and 

 apparently more uniform in size and shape than in larger speci- 

 mens. In larger specimens, with the more full}^ developed arms, 

 we observe the plates at the base are strong, length about equal to 

 width ; in the middle portion of the arm, they are more slender 

 and only slightly diminished in diameter ; in the upper part, the 

 plates are of a medium length, but are strongly developed on the 

 side from which the pinnule starts, and the stem becomes more 

 or less zigzag in shape ; with all these differences, the articular 

 faces between the arm-plates show only very slight tendency to 

 become oblique, a character so conspicuous in other species of the 

 genus. 



The pinnules normally start from every joint iirst on one side, 

 then on the other, but frequently variation is seen in this respect, 

 by the interposition of a plate without pinnule ; in some cases this 

 occurs frequently on a single arm, giving the appearance of 

 pinnules from every other plate. In no case is the alternate order 

 of the pinnules disturbed by this variation. 



The differences in the plates succeeding the anals appear to 

 be purely varietal, and associated with no concomitant variation 

 in other parts, and may be due, in a measure, to differences in 

 state of preservation. 



The normal arrangement of anals is that of Poteriocrinus, as 

 given by Wachsmuth and Springer," Pateocrinoidea," '79, p. 110, 

 but if we regard the calyx as stopping with the top of the radial 

 we should have several cases where the anals are entirely above 

 the calyx, as the lowest anal lies in the angle formed bv the upper 

 oblique faces of two adjacent radials. This accounts also for a 

 narrower cal^'x. 



Another sijecimen has but a single series of anals, resting upon 

 the upper, sloping margins of the adjoining radials, thus reminding 

 us of Heterocrinus. Still a third (see var. gamma) starts with two 

 series of plates at the base, which appear to reach the basal 

 series, and opposite the first brachial, a third series starts in on 

 the side. Other siiecimens show the normal Poteriocrinus 

 arrangement of anals, the first plate resting between the upper 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES Of PHILADELPHIA. 27 



angles of two basals, followed bj* two plates touching the 

 adjacent radial, as explained above. 



This species offers points of resemblance to several species of the 

 genus, but it appears to be distinct, even allowing the great variation. 

 As one feature after another is examined in the different specimens, 

 such species as the Ohio Sraphiocrinus avhtortuosuii of Hall, the 

 Burlington, Scaphiocrinus fiscellus, Meek and Worthen, and 

 several others are recalled ; but the species, taken as a whole, in 

 its general features as well as in the details, appears most nearly 

 related to Poteriocrinus difusus, Hall, '62. 121, and Pot. (" Scaphio- 

 crinus^^) oegina, H., '64, 57 — the former from the Hamilton group 

 of New York and the latter from the Waverl}'^ group of Ohio. 



Prof. Hall has noted the resemblance of the two to each other ; 

 one point of difference is in the arm-plates. In the Hamilton 

 species every second or third plate bears a pinnule, and " thti 

 intermediate joints are shorter than those bearing armlets." 



The Waverly species bears pinnules from each plate. 



The species imder consideration shows considerable A'ariation 

 in this respect even on a single specimen. The writer has not 

 had access to the types of the two species above referred to, but 

 from study of the figures and descriptions, together with the fine 

 series of specimens of P. gregarius^ it would not seem unrea- 

 sonable to expect that specimens may eventually be found uniting 

 all three species into one. 



Poteriocrinus iDecadocrinusi Zethua n f. PI. I, lit:. '■'■ 



Body turbinate, with two long, slender brachials to each ray. 

 These long brachials, with the arms, form a naiTow elongate head 

 with subparallel sides. 



Underbasals minute, height and width about equal. BAsals 

 ( "subradials " of Hall), a little higher than wide, rounded 

 hexagonal. Radials wider than high, rounded pentagonal, the 

 upper edge nearly straight, but falling off a little at the corners, 

 beyond the base of the first brachial, which is narrower than the 

 greatest width of the radial. 



Brachials, two for each ra}', subequal iii length, cylindrical, 

 twice as long as wide, length of each about that of height of 

 calyx ; the second brachial expanded at the top with inclined faces 

 for attachment of first arm-plates. 



Arms short; slender, the plates fetv and fulh- twice as long as 

 wide« 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



The arm bears a pinnule at the third joint; (or bifurcates at this 

 point, the specimen is too imperfect to determine which). 



Anals unknown. 



Column rounded, relatively strong, not expanding under the 

 calyx, composed of two kinds of joints, alternating regularly, 

 from above, first a thin, then a subglobular joint, and not varying 

 in size or proportion for the length of stem exposed. 



Dimensions. — Diam. stem, 0.8 mm. ; calyx, width, 2.2 mm. ; 

 cal3-x, height, 1.5 mm.; primary radial series, length, 3.5 mm.; 

 second brachial, mean width, 0.7 mm.; first arm-plate, length 

 1.0, width, 0.3. 



This species resembles P. Nycteus, Hall, '61, 120, but the brachials 

 and arms are stronger, and the brachials longer in proportion to 

 the calyx. The resemblance suggests the name for the species, 

 Zethus, who was the grandson of Nycteus. 



Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 



Horizon. — ? Portage group, from a loose slab near the the top of 

 the Portage, and supposed to have fallen from the rocks just above 

 where found. 



In collection of Prof. S. G. Williams, Cornell University. 



Taxocrinus Ithacensis n. s. PI. I, fig. 10. 



Body expanding moderately ; calyx shallow, broad ; arms 

 strong, of medium length, the whole head rather slender for the 

 genus. 



Underbasals minute but appearing as a thin, irregular band 

 above the last stem segment. 



Basals small, low, subpentagonal. 



Plates of the first radial series, strong, large, well developed. 

 Radials pentagonal, upper edge deeply sulcate, broader than 

 high ; articulation with first brachial narrower than the full width 

 of plate ; surface broadly convex. 



Brachials, two for each ray. First brachial subquadrate, 

 width and height about equal, wider at top than at bottom, upper 

 margin broadly sulcate. 



Second brachial, the largest plate of the body, expanding 

 above, subpentagonal, upper margin angular. 



Primary arm-plates, four (or rarely five) strong, about half the 

 size of brachials ; the arms branch twice (or three ? times) ; each 

 branch of four or five plates. 



Arm-plates convex, but not angular, about as high as wide ; no 




1882,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



pinnules seen ; each arm-plate deeply suleate on its upper edge for 

 articulation with the following plate, the upper angle produced 

 ventrally so as to appear subauriculate on a side view. 



Stem strong, round ; the joints under the calyx thin and 

 crenulate at margins ; the thickness increases gradually for half 

 an inch downwards, then there appear two sets, one thick, one 

 thin ; the thick plates increase in thickness and become strongly 

 convex ; the thin disks finally appear to drop out, and the main 

 part of the stem consists of long nearly cylindrical joints, only 

 slightly convex, and united by finely serrate margins. The root 

 is a simple, low, conical expansion of the end of the stem, and is 

 found attached to the shell of Spirifer laevis^ in several cases. 



Dimensions. — Stem (just below calyx), diara., 2.9 mm.; width 

 of calyx, 5. mm.; primary radial series, height, 4. mm.; second 

 brachial, width, 2.8 mm.; first four arm-plates, length, 4. mm. ; 

 total length of body and arms, 20. mm. 



Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 



Horizon. — Portage group, Spirifer laevis beds. 



Taxocrinas Ithacensis. var. alpha n v. 



This variety is about half the size of the typical form of the 

 species occurring three or four hundred feet below. 



The arms are shorter, and attain only the second bifurcation. 



The stem, at the top, has hut a few of the uniformly thin disks, 

 the alternate sizes beginning to appear much nearer the base of 

 the calyx (within a quarter inch) than in the typical form. Other- 

 wise, the calyx — the shape and number of plates in the calyx and 

 in the primary radials — the first series of arm-joints, four (rarely 

 five) — the second series, four or five— their convexity, and all 

 other characters observed (except the smaller, and slightly shorter, 

 stunted form), are precisely as in the tj^pe specimens of the 

 species. 



In some specimens of this variety, one of the arms is observed 

 to have but two primary radials, the other rays have three. This 

 I can look upon only as a varietal character, as in the secondary 

 series we generally see variation in each specimen from four to 

 six joints, 



Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 



Horizon. — Chemung group, about three hundred feet above the 

 Spirifer Iseyis beds of the Portage group. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Taxocrinns curtus n. s. 



In general appearance this species resembles variety alpha of 

 T. Ifhacensis, but is still shorter, and the calyx is very low and 

 "widely expanded. 



The nnderbasals do not appear on the surface. 

 The plates of the primary radial series are striate, or subcari- 

 nate along the centre, with faint parallel striations each side, and 

 the surface indistinctly granular ; total length of the three is once 

 and a quarter the width of the second brachial. 



Basals relatively smaller, about the height of the radial. 

 Radial very short, broad, sublunate. 



First brachial subquadrate, height less than the width, which 

 is less than the width of the radial. 



The second brachial is the largest plate of the body, wide, 

 pentagonal, with two broad, oblique edges for attachment of arms. 

 The arm-plates are less deeply sulcate at the upper margin than 

 in T. Ithacensis or in the variety alpha. 



Primary arm-plates, four, or three, convex, subcarinate. The 

 central striae, or carinations, are continuous from the brachials to 

 the end of the rays, diverging at each axillary plate. The stem 

 is composed of two sets of joints, the one thick, the other thin, 

 from the base downward and it does not expand at the top as in 

 T. Ithacensis. The ver}^ thin plates with crenulate edges, occur- 

 ring under the calyx in that species, are wanting, as are also the 

 extra large joints occasionally appearing along the upper part of 

 the stem. 



At first sight the types of this species appeared like extreme 

 varieties of T. Ithacensis, in the line of var. alpha., but upon close 

 comparison it is observed that not onl^' are the arms shorter and 

 of fewer joints, but the whole body is more stunted, and the 

 primary radials, as a whole, and the individual plates composing 

 them are proportionately shorter and wider than in that species, 

 and the striation of the plates is not observed in any of the 

 specimens referred to T. Ithacensis. 



As fossils are defined, this is doubtless a distinct species, but 

 it would not be surprising if a larger series of specimens should 

 reveal the fact that the characters upon which it is foupded are of 

 no more than varietal value. 

 Locality. — Ithaca, N. Y. 

 Horizon. — Portage group, Spirifer Isevis beds. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Meloorinus Clarke! n s. 



The shape of the calyx cannot be determined on account of the 

 crushed condition of the specimens, but the shape and number of 

 the plates agree so well with those of M. Bainhridgensis^ H. and 

 W., that it is probable that the shape was the same, i. e.. broadly 

 turbinate. In size, also, the calyx agrees well with that species. 

 No underbasals appear. 

 The basals are low, wide and pentagonal. 



The radials are more than double the size of the basals, heiglit 

 and width equal, or wider than high. The variation in the shape 

 of this plate, in the several specimens upon the one slab, covers 

 the extremes met with in the two species M. Bainbridgensis and 

 31. breviradiaUis. 



The radial is followed by two brachials of smaller size, the first 

 hexagonal, the second pentagonal and angular above, and each is 

 about equal in height and width. 



The second brachial supports two arm-plates (still within the 

 calyx), nearl3' as large as the brachials, irregularly pentagonal 

 and meeting at their inner edges. 



Of the secondary radials, three are within the calyx, the second 

 is about half as high as wide, the third is very short. The third 

 pair of secondary radials together bear a strong arm, gradually' 

 tapering to a point, about three times the length of the calyx. 

 It is broad, flattened on the back and longitudinally depressed 

 along the centre, and is composed of a double series of very short 

 plates, meeting at the centre and arranged in opposite (not 

 alternate) order. 



On the outer and ventral side the arm bears long, slender, 

 cord-like branchlets, which appear to have fine thread-like appen- 

 dages along their sides. In the central part of the arm these 

 branchlets are as long as the arm itself. Thej- proceed from 

 every third arm-plate, instead of every fourth, as in M. Bain- 

 bridgensis, and the plates from which they appear are opposite 

 each other, and their outer sides are lengthened slightly. 



The interradials are apparently like those of M. Bainbridgensis, 

 beginning with a large plate between the upper parts of two 

 adjacent radials, followed above by two smaller plates, and these 

 by more still smaller plates, the number or arrangement of which 

 is not uniform. 



The calyx-plates are marked by granulations over the central 




32 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



portion, are rounded at the margins, which in some cases are 

 elevated slightly above the central part of the plate, causing a 

 depression, as in M. Bainhridgensis ; other plates (even on the 

 same specimen) are convex, as in 31. hreviradiatus. The rows of 

 fine ridges, connecting the calyx-plates at their juncture, are very 

 distinct in some cases, and do not appear in others. The former 

 is a character of M. hreviradiatus. 



The stems are composed of alternately thin and thick plates, 

 the relative order, or proportions of which, are not constant, even 

 varying on the same stem when preserved for long distance. 



This species is closely related to Melocrinus Bainbridgensis, 

 Hall and Whitfield, 1875, from the Huron shale, Bainbridge^Ohio, 

 and to 31. breviradiatus, Hall (figured on a plate of " New 

 Crinoidea, PI. 1," which was published, with explanation of plates, 

 in 18T2), from the Hamilton group. 



The study of the specimens (all on a single slab), from which 

 the above diagnosis is made out, has revealed the fact that 

 apparent!}' all the characters distinguishing the two species just 

 named are variable in those specimens. The arms must be 

 excepted ; none are known for 31. hreviradiatus, and those 

 described for 31. Bainbridgensis were not found attached to an^' 

 calyx. 



While, therefore, we retain a distinct specific name for the 

 specimens under consideration, we are led to believe that exami- 

 nation of a larger series of specimens maj- make it necessary to 

 unite these three species in one. 



Locality. — Ontario County, N. Y. 



Horizon. — Genesee slate (? Portage group).' 



This species was discovered several years ago, and by Prof. X. T. 

 Clarke, of Canandaigua, N. Y., was brought to the notice of 

 Prof. James Hall, who gave it the name " Gtenocrinus Glarkei" 

 in honor of Prof. Clarke. But as no description or figure was 

 made of the species we publish it as new under the specific 

 name proposed b}' Prof. Hall. 



Among the material collected by Prof. John M. Clarke from 



^ [The specimen above described belongs to the fauna of the Hamilton 

 (not Chemung i period. 



A second specimen, which I have not seen, came from Portage rocks; 

 and this second specimen, Prof. J. M. Clarke informs me, is apparently 

 the same species but has never been scientifically identified. ] — H. S. W. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPEIIA. H3 



the Chemung rocks at Haskiusville, Steuben Co., X. Y.. ai-e two 

 species of Poteriocrinus^ belonging to the type of P. Cornellianus, 

 but evidently distinct. The specimens are so imperfect that a 

 satisfactory^ specific diagnosis cannot be made out, but we will 

 record the characters which can be distinguished. 



Foteriocrinus ("p. >"'r,i„</a). 



Stem at the top stronglj' pentagonal, carinate and expanding. 



Calyx small, rapidly expanding. Arms large, and arm-plates 

 convex. 



Underbasals small, low, broad, arched above, subpentagonal. 



Basals a little higher than underbasals, and twice as wide as 

 high. 



Radial twice as large as basal, broad, sublunate,with the points 

 turned upwards. 



Primary radials ver^' large, nearly as wide as the cal^'x below 

 the radials, composed of short plates with straight sutures and 

 of at least seven plates ; the specimen is imperfect just before the 

 bifurcation. 



There are small, deep pits in the calyx at the lateral and upper 

 angles of the basal-plates as if their corners had been abruptly 

 bent in toward the centre. The upper part of the stem and the 

 numerous primary radials are features resembling P. Cornellianus : 

 but the specimen is fully twice as large ; the calyx is much 

 smaller and expands more rapidly-, and the pittings of the calyx 

 are peculiar. 



Poteriocrinus («;j. tertia). 



Stem roundish, subpentagonal near the top, with cirri standing 

 out obliquely and straight from the stem, of which several appear 

 within an inch below the base of the calyx. 



Calyx low, small. 



Underbasals cannot be distinguished, but evidently present and 

 small. 



Basals about as high as wide and nearly as large as the radials. 



Anals unknown. 



Radials subpentagonal ; the insertion of the first brachial 

 occupies the full width of the plate. There are six plates in the 

 primary radial series ; pinnules appear from the plates above the 

 third. The sixth primary radial (the fifth brachial) is angular 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



above and from it the ray bifurcates. On each side pinnules start 

 from every alternate plate. 



Pinnules short. 



This resembles Pot. CornellianuH^ but it is considerably larger, 

 the stem is less strongly' pentagonal at the top, and the primarj- 

 radials are six, instead of eight or nine, as in that species. 



The specimen is on a slab with IHctyophyton. 



Locality. — Haskinsville, Steuben Co., N. Y, 



Horizon. — Chemung group. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. 



PAOK. 



Figs. 1, 2 and 3. Poteriocrinus Cornellianus 18 



1. Anterior view; showing calyx and lower part of arms. 



2. Anal view; showing anal plates and ventral tube. 



3a. Another specimen; showing long ventral tube, a part of the calyx 



and one of the arms running under the ventral tube. 

 3 b. Section of ventral tube, dorsal view enlarged. 

 3 c. View of transverse section of the ventral tube. 

 3 d. Ventral view of same; showing the short furrows or lamellae extend- 

 ing from the ventral longitudinal axis only part way toward the 

 edge of the lateral fringe-plates. 



Fig. 4. Poteriocrinus Clarkei 21 



The three anus proceeding from one of the distal brachial plates is 

 exceptional; generally only two are seen for each ray. 



Fig. 5. Poteriocrinus Clarkei var. alpha 22 



Figs. 6, 7 and 8. Poteriocrinus gregarius 22 



Fig. 9. Poteriocrinus Zethus 27 



Fig. 10. Taxocrincs Ithacensis : 29 



a. Head and upper part of stem. b. A few joints from the central 

 portion of the stem. This is the general character of the fragments 

 of stems, c. Base of the stem, with the disk by which it is attached; 

 in this case to the surface of a Spirifer Icevis. 

 Figs. 1, 6, 7 and 10 are enlarged about once and one-half, and figs. 3 b, c, 

 d and 8 are twice natural size. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



A NEW STATION FOR COREMA CONRADII, TORE 

 BY AUBREY H. SMITH. 



This rare plant was formerly collected in the Pine Barrens of 

 New Jersey, by Torrey and Knieskern. It is now lost from the 

 places indicated bj'^ them, though diligent search has been made 

 for it there by Messrs. Red field and Parker. 



It was at one time found on Long Island, but not of late 3'ears. 

 It is probably extinct both in New Jersey- and on Long Island. 



It has been found on Cape Cod and on the Kennebec, New 

 Bath, Maine, and in Newfoundland. Whether it is now to be 

 found in these places or not I am not informed. 



The specimens which I exhibit to-night were collected in the 

 Palmaghatt Glen or Pass of the Swawangunk Mountains, by Mr. 

 Edward A. Smiley, at my request, in October of the present year. 

 His father, A. H. Smiley, the proprietor of the Minnewaska 

 House, informed me in the preceding month of August, that 

 there was a singular little plant, with the aspect of a very small 

 cedar, growing on a ledge of rocks on the Palmaghatt, some two 

 and a-half miles from his house. 



From the rather inaccurate description of it given me by him 

 and his son, whose intelligent curiosity had also been directed to 

 the plant, I surmised that it might be Gorema. 



I therefore engaged Mr. Smiley at the first opportunity to collect, 

 and send me by mail, specimens of it. 



It grows, Mr. E. A. Smiley writes me, on the edge of a precipice 

 of upper Silurian rocks of Ulster Count}', in a very thin soil. In 

 May next I hope to have fi'om him specimens in flower and 

 fruit. 



The plant appears to be one of those which are verging to 

 extinction, the conditions of its environment seeming to be 

 against its prolonged life. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



PROCEEDINGS 



OP THE 



MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION OF THE ACADEMY 



OF Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



lHRO-1881. 



January 26, 1880. 



Some Nevj Pennsylvania Mineral Localities. — Mr. Chas. M. 

 Wheatley reported, through Mr. Lewis, the following localities 

 not mentioned in Dr. Genth's Report on the Mineralogy of Penn- 

 sylvania : Jones Mine, Berks Co., Pa. ; Aurichalcite, Melaconite, 

 Byssolite. Upper Salford Mine, Montgomer}^ Co. ; Azurite. 



Pseudomorphs of Serpentine after Dolomite. — Mr. H. Carvill 

 Lewis drew attention to some specimens of associated serpentine 

 and dolomite which he had found within the city limits, and which 

 appeared to be pseudomorphs. He had found them in the Twenty- 

 second Ward, on Paul's Mill Road, near the Wissahickon Creek. 

 A range of serpentine and steatite here crosses the creek, being 

 the same which crosses the Schuylkill at Lafayette and continues 

 through Montgomery' County in a southwestwardl}- direction. 

 It here appears to conform closely, both as to strike and dip, with 

 the adjoining gneiss, whatever its origin. All along its northern 

 edge the steatite is filled with hard nodules of dark serpentine, 

 which Mr. T. D. Rand has shown to be pseudomorphous after 

 staurolite.' 



At the locality mentioned, this peculiar rock contains veins or 

 lenticular beds of massive, cleavable dolomite. This dolomite is 

 frequently traversed in the three directions of its cleavage-planes 

 by thin seams of serpentine, while irregular masses of steatite or 

 serpentine also run through it or protrude into it from without. 

 When the interpenetrating serpentine is in a thin seam it may 

 frequently be observed to assume a pseudomorphic character. It 

 may assume the shape and external characters of dolomite, while 

 retaining the color and composition of serpentine. It then 

 possesses both the rhombic cleavage-planes and the jointed 

 structure of the dolomite, and often, also, its characteristic trans- 

 verse striae. In some of the specimens collected the serpentine 

 presents a step-like appearance, and when it coats successively' 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1871, p. 803. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



alternate blocks of dolomite, rising one above the other, it might 

 be compared to a flight of tiny white marble steps, covered by a 

 green carpet. 



At times, whole blocks of dolomite are replaced by serpentine. 

 Transverse stria? have been noticed only on very thin seams, yet 

 here they are qnite as distinct as npon the adjacent dolomite. 

 Rhombic cleavage-planes, however, are very common thronghout 

 the serpentine, although, nnlike the dolomite, these markings are 

 generally only superficial. In very exceptional cases the eminent 

 rhombohedral cleavage of the dolomite is retained by the serpentine. 

 While the serpentine has thus acqnired the external form of dolo- 

 mite, it possesses its identity as serpentine. When broken it 

 shows the irregular or conchoidal fracture characteristic of true 

 serpentine. When a fragment is immersed in warm acid, a 

 momentary effervescence often takes place, owing to the adherence 

 of thin scales of dolomite, as proven by the microscope. 



No actunl passage of dolomite into serpentine has been observed 

 on the specimens collected. The two minerals are distinct. 

 The line of demarkation between them is alwa3^s sharp ; pure 

 serpentine lying in juxtaposition with pure dolomite. The dolom- 

 ite is the white, glassy, cleavable variety, containing about one 

 and one-half per cent, of carbonate of iron, as determined by 

 volumetric analj^sis. 



From the description which Professor Dana has given of the 

 serpentine pseudomorphs found at the Tilly-Foster iron-mine,^ it 

 appears that in several particulars those of the Wissahiekon are 

 (piite similar. 



In the use of the term pseudomorph^ it must not be understood 

 that it implies an actual alteration. The specimens here described 

 may be clnssed as pseudomorphs by substitution. It appears that 

 the dolomite has not been altered into serpentine, but has been 

 replaced by it. As is probably the case with all pseudomorphs 

 by substitution, the original material is more soluble than that 

 which is substituted. Whole rhombs of dolomite appear to have 

 been dissolved and simultaneously replaced b3' the deposition of 

 serpentine. 



That this is a case of pseudomorphism by infiltration and 

 replacement, is indicated b}^ the fact that in one specimen a 

 rhomb of dolomite is replaced by magnetic chromite. The chro- 

 mite occupies the full width of the narrow seam of serpentine 

 for a short distance, and was evidentl}' deposited from the same 

 solution which held the serpentine. 



In discussing the origin of these and similar pseudomorphs, it is 

 important to bear in mind the fact of the sharp juxtaposition of 

 tiie two substances, and the consequent possibility of their having 

 been formed contemporaneouslj\ It must also be remembered 

 that the dolomite, which contains the pseudomorphs of serpentine, 



' Amer. .Tour. Science, vol. viii, 1874, p. 371. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



lies itself in a bed of serpentine, and that it is therefore possible 

 that the pseudomorphs were formed at the very time of the original 

 crystallization of the dolomite. If we grant that the dolomite, 

 and the bed of serpentine which contains it, Avere formed simul- 

 taneously, it may readily follow that the minute pseudomorphous 

 seams of serpentine irithin tliis dolomite were enclosed during 

 the very act of crystallization of the dolomite. With this view, 

 we might regard these pseudomorphs by substitution as having 

 been deposited, not b}' an infiltrating solution from Avithout, but 

 b}' a solution which was being expelled from the interior of the 

 dolomite b}- the crystallizing power of the latter. If such were 

 the case, the serpentine would readily assume the habituH of the 

 dolomite, and the same crystallizing force which caused the 

 cleavage-planes and the transverse strije upon the dolomite would 

 superinduce them upon the enclosed serpentine. 



Contemporaneous pseudomorphism implies a pseudomorphism 

 by association. True pseudomorphism bv substitution, like 

 epigenesis, is subsequent. While not attempting in the present 

 case to determine the relative time and, therefore, the kind of 

 pseudomorphism, the foregoing remarks are offered merely as 

 suggestions in reference to a subject already so fully discussed by 

 eminent writers. 



New Localities/or Barite. — Mr. Lewis contributed the following 

 new Pennsylvania localities for barite : 



1. Bridgeport, Bedford Co. It occurs here in small tabular 

 cr^^stals in red Catskill sandstone (No. IX). 



2. Broad Top Mountain, Huntington Co. Thin transparent 

 coatings of barite frequenth' cover the fossil ferns and calamites 

 which occur in the carboniferous shales and fire-clay adjoining 

 the semibituminous coal-seams of Broad Top Mountain. 



•S. Lancaster Station, Franklin Co. It occurs here in large 

 white cleavable masses. 



February 23, 1880. 



New Localities for Chabazite. — Mr. Lewis Palmer announced 

 two new localities for chabazite. It occurs in red crystals in a 

 hornblendic gneiss at Waterville, near Chester, and also at 

 Upland, Delaware Co. 



On a New Ore of Antimony. — Mr. H. C. Lewis described an 

 oxide of antimony found at Senora, Mexico, which he had been 

 unable to identify com{)letely with any known mineral. Under 

 the supposition that it was a tin ore, it was sent to him by Mr. 

 T. H. Shoemaker for examination.- 



The mineral generally occurs as a massive, compact, hard sub- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



stance, with an imperfectly conchoidal cleavage and of a pale 

 grayish yellow color. It also occurs as minute colorless octa- 

 hedral crystals of glass^y lustre. The crA'stals often occur in 

 druses in the massive mineral, and are sometimes modified. Their 

 form can only be distinguished with the microscope. Neither 

 the crystals nor the massive substance show any colors in polar- 

 ized light, and the mineral is therefore isometric. Special care 

 has been taken to prove the identity of the octahedral crA^stals 

 with the massive mineral. So far as could be determined with 

 such minute crystals, their hardness and their behavior in the 

 open tube were identical with the massive mineral. * 



The mineral here described has the following physical characters: 



Isometric. Habit octahedral. Grenerally massive. Hardness, 

 6.5-7. Specific gravit}^ 4.9. Lustre of the crystals glassy ; of 

 the massive mineral sub-resinous or sub-vitreous. Color, pale 

 grayish a'cIIow. Streak uncolored. Transparent in cr3stals, 

 opaque when massive. Fracture sub-conchoidal. 



A thin section of the purest mineral examined under the 

 microscope shows an entire absence of any foreign admixture. 

 The structure is banded, the bands consisting of more or less 

 opaque material, and the general appearance of the section recall- 

 ing a section of muscular fibre. It has the following blowpipe 

 characters : 



On charcoal before the blowpipe, it is fusible with difficulty and 

 decrepitates strongly. It gives a white coating of oxide of 

 antimony, and fuses to a. gray or bluish gra}' slag and is partiall}- 

 reduced to metal. With carbonate of soda on charcoal it is more 

 readilj^ reduced. In the borax and salt of phosphorous bead the 

 slag dissolves and gives it generally a blue colo^', due to a trace 

 of cobalt. In the closed tube it gives off water, decrepitates with 

 violence, turns deep yellow when hot and becomes white when 

 cold. It does not fuse or give a sublimate in either open or closed 

 tube. When the slag formed by fusion on charcoal is moistened 

 and placed on turmeric paper, it forms a brown stain. 



The following are its chemical characters : 



It is partially dissolved by digestion in concentrated hydro- 

 chloric acid, and b}- the addition of water to the yellow^ solution 

 thus obtained white oxychloride of antimony is precipitated. It 

 is decomposed with great difficulty, even after tusion with sodic 

 carbonate and sulphur. On account of the difficulty of getting it 

 into complete solution, no quantitative analysis has as yet been 

 made. It has been found to consist mainly of oxide of antimony 

 and to contain small percentages of lime, iron and water, and 

 traces of arsenic cobalt, and lead. It has 3.1 per cent, of water. 

 Until an exact analysis is made it tvill not be possible to determine 

 its mineralogical equivalent. 



Several tests indicate that the antimonj' exists mainly in the 

 state of antimoniouB oxide. It difters from senarmontite and 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



valentinite in hardness, in fusibility and in solubility ; from stibic- 

 onite in greater hardness, in its decrepitation, and in its occurring 

 in crystals ; from cervantite in its fusibility and in its behavior 

 in the open tube ; and from volgerite in the amount of water. 



The massive mineral frequently contains crystals and small 

 veins of quartz, and sometimes contains also small seams of a soft 

 reddish yellow mineral which is probably- stibiconite, a product of 

 alteration. 



Menaccanite from Fairmount Park. — Mr. John Ford exhibited 

 a fine specimen of menaccanite (ilmenite), found by Mr. G- 

 Howard Parker in mica schist that had been quai-ried from the 

 tunnel near Girard Avenue Bridge, Fairmount Park. Though 

 associated with many others of like character, this specimen is 

 probably the largest and most beautiful of any found in or near 

 the locality named. It is quite lustrous in appearance, and 

 measures about one-third of an inch in thickness by one inch in 

 width. Its general form is that of an almost perfect half-circle, 

 the whole being partly imbedded edgewise in a matrix of quartz. 



It seems probable that the circular form of the crystal is due to 

 its having been bent by the curving of the bed of schist in its 

 earlier stages ; but, of course, this can be little more than a sup- 

 position. The entire length of the crystal, measured around the 

 curve, is about four inches. 



March 22, 1880. 



On a Fault in the Trias near Yardleyville, Pa. — Mr. H. C. 

 Lewis remarked that it was not often that a section of a well- 

 defined fault was exposed for study. Frequently a fault starts a 

 line of erosion which obliterates all trace of it, and the actual 

 junction of the faulted measures is either occupied by a stream 

 or is so covered by talus that it can only be inferred from adjoin- 

 ing outcrops. He therefore thought that it might be of interest 

 to describe a finely exposed fault which he had recentl}' observed 

 on the line of the Bound Brook Railroad. 



Less than half a mile west of Yardley Station on the Bound 

 Brook Railroad, a deep cut exposes a fine section of lower triassic 

 shales and conglomerates. The fault occurs in about the middle 

 of this cut. It may be seen on both sides of the railroad, but is 

 finest on the north side. It is a fault between the lower white 

 conglomerate and the overlying, but here adjacent, red shale. 

 The fault runs north and south, or nearly at right-angles to the 

 strike of the strata. The east end of the cut exposes conglom- 

 erate and sandstone, and the west end red shale, both of which 

 are more or less decomposed and dip gently to the north. These 

 formations are separated from one another by the nearly perpen- 

 dicular walls of a trap-d3-ke, which occupies the line of fault. 




1882.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



41 



The trap is entirely decomposed into a soft, clayey material of a 

 black color, with specks of white, and is about 5^ feet in width. 



Yellow sandstone. 

 Red shale. 



Surface drift. 



White conglom- 

 erate. 



N. E. 



Trap. 

 Diagram op Fault near Yardleyville. 



The contact of the two differentlj^ colored formations with the 

 black trap-dyke is very distinct, and is an instructive example of 

 geological structure. 



There has been apparently a downthrow of red shale and an 

 upthrow of conglomerate, while an outburst of eruptive trap has 

 forced its way along the line of fracture. It is of interest to 

 observe that some strata of shaly j-^ellow sandstone, overlying the 

 red shale, have their edges turned up where adjacent to the trap, 

 as though the fault had been caused b}^ the pressure from below 

 of the molten trap. That trap frequentl}" exercises great mechani- 

 cal force in its effort to break through to the surface, is shown by 

 the fact that at several localities in Pennsylvania, the triassic 

 shales in the neighborhood of a trap-dj^ke have their dip altered 

 or even completely reversed. Near Taylorsville, for example, the 

 writer has observed the dip of the red shales changed in the 

 vicinity of a trap-dyke, from 20° N. 10° E., the normal dip, to 

 18° S. 80° W. Near Harleysville, also, a dyke below the surface 

 has metamorphosed the strata into black argillite and reversed 

 the dip to the south. It is probable, therefore, that the trap has 

 been the direct cause of the fault which encloses it in the case 

 here described. • 




42 proceedings of the academy of [1882- 



May 24, 1880. 



NOTES ON THE GEOLOGhf OF KADNOR AND VICINITY. 

 BY THEO. D. RAND. 



There has recently been published in the Proceedings of thc- 

 Araerican Philosophical Society (January to March, 1880; vol. 

 xviii, No. 105) a paper read before the Society, January 2, 1880, 

 by Charles E. Hall, on the Relations of the Crystalline Rocks of 

 Eastern Pennsylvania, some of the conclusions in which so differ 

 from my own observations that a statement of the latter may not 

 be without interest, especially as regards the middle serpentine 

 belt in Radnor, which I have been studying for some time. 



Mr. Hall describes seven series of rocks and two serpentine 

 horizons. Of these I have carefully examined but the second^ 

 fifth and seventh series and the serpentines. The second, he 

 describes as " A series of syenitic, hornblendic and quartzose 

 rocks, extending westward from Chestnut Hill, and covering a 

 o-reater part of the northern portion of Delaware County." 



These rocks, locally known in Delaware County as " Radnor 

 Rocks," from their prevalence in that township, are in abundant 

 outcrops in very many places, perhaps the most remarkable of 

 which is a hill in the form of a truncated cone, perhaps 400 X 800 

 feet on the summit, with steep but not precipitous sides, 80 to 100 

 feet in height, situated in Chester County nearly south from 

 Reeseville, and a prominent ol)ject in the landscape. North of 

 these rocks occur those called by Prof. Rogers in the Geology of 

 Pennsylvania, vol. 2. p. 72, primal older slates, and well described 

 y)y him as follows : 



" Metamorphosed with characteristic white streaks of imper- 

 fectly crystallized feldspar, and dark hornblendic material, with 

 roundish specks of semicrystallized feldspar." 



They are in fact gneiss, composed generally of thin layers of 

 most varied character, feldspar being abundant, mica, hornblende 

 and quartz varying in the layers from almost nothing to great 

 abundance of one or the other ; and many of these layers often 

 appearing in an inch, giving at times a schistose character to the 

 rock but the mica or hornblende never so abundant that it can 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



properly be called schist. The minerals composing this rock 

 closely resemble those of the gneiss on the south ; so close is the 

 resemblance of certain strata in the one, to some of the other, the 

 difference being chiefly in mode of aggregation, that it seems to 

 me not improbable that the northei-n are but upper strata of the 

 southern gneiss. 



The fifth group of Mr. Hall is described as " Hydromica 

 schists, quartzose schists, chloritic schists and occasional beds of 

 quartzite .and sandy beds, and serpentines," of which he says, page 

 436 : " These are the Hudson River shales and flank the Chester 

 Valley on the south * * * the entire length of the Valley. 

 The^' extend south to the syenitic rocks of the second group." 

 Mr. Hall does not mention the schistose gneiss, nor is it possible 

 to include it under his description of either the second or fifth 

 groups which he places in contact. On page 441 he says : " The 

 serpentines of Radnor Tow^nship, Delaware County, and those of 

 eastern Willistown, east and west Goshen, are undoubtedly altered 

 beds of the South A^ alley Hill slates or Hudson River slates. 

 They lie unconformable- upon the syenitic rocks of the second 

 group." There are. as I have heretofore shown (Proceedings 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., Philada., Nov., 1878), three approximately 

 parallel beds of seri)entine in Radnor Township. Presuming, as 

 seems from the connection with the Chester County outcrops, that 

 the middle and most conspicuous belt is intended, I cannot agree 

 with Mr. Hall in his conclusions. 



This middle )>elt is the largest of the three, and north of the 

 syenite hill apjiears first on the Mattson's Ford or township line 

 road, on the westerly side of a small affluent of the Gulf Creek, 

 one-quarter mile northeast of Radnor Station, with a strike nearly 

 E. and W. Tlie serpentine forms a large hill, whicli begins 

 abruptly and closely resembles in lithological character that of 

 the Lafayette or Rose's quarry belt. The next or second outcrop 

 is nearly west of this and is inconspicuous. The third, northwest 

 of Radnor Station, is about 1000 feet in length. Its centre is 

 nearly due west from the first ; the strike is not far from N. 60 E. 

 This outcrop ends abruptly. About 400 feet north is a small 

 outcrop appearing as if the end of the ridge had been removed 

 400 feet northward. Beyond this I believe no outcrops have been 

 described until we reacli those near Paoli, but several exist : the 

 fifth, nearly S. from Eagle Station, small and the strike indistinct ; 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



the sixth, S. W. of Eagle, is S. 70- W. from the fifth, with a strike 

 S. 40° W., dip about 1b° to 80° S.; the seventh is nearly due W. 

 from the fourth, its strike N. 50° to 60° E.; the eighth is a little 

 S. of W. of the seventh, strike and dip not distinct ; the ninth, 

 that crossing the road running S. E. from Berwj-n, and about a 

 mile from that station, is at its eastern end S. 10° W. from the 

 eighth, its strike is S. 40° W. The outcrop near Paoli is nearly 

 W. from this, and extends thence as the wide and well-known belt 

 passing one mile north of West Chester. 



Xow, examining the first outcrop, that on the Mattson's Ford 

 road, we find on the S. the rocks of group one without doubt, but 

 on the N. we find almost identical rocks— hornblendic gneiss, 

 porphyritic gneiss and feldspathic gneiss. It is difficult to con- 

 ceive that these are altered Hudson River shales. Beyond them 

 are the primal older slates of Prof, Rogers, before referred to, then 

 the northerly belt of serpentine, then gneiss, and occasionally (to 

 the westward frequently) garnetiferous mica schist, then limestone, 

 then trap, and then, fully one-quarter of a mile from the serpen- 

 tine, the schistose rocks of the South Yalley Hill, agreeing 

 accurately with Mr. Hall's description of the fifth group. These 

 intermediate beds thin out westwardly, until the serpentine, the 

 trap and the hydromica schists of the South Yalley Hill appear to 

 come in contact. 



The strike of the trap and of the southerly border of the 

 schists, with which, in Radnor, it appears in contact, separating 

 them from the primal older slates, being about S. 70° W., the 

 serpentine and the schists are much closer at the western end of 

 the Radnor Station outcrops, the intermediate strata thinning out 

 as stated, and the serpentine perhaps crossing them in part ; but 

 even here, there is at least 800 feet of the schistose gneiss between 

 them, with some garnetiferous mica schist, which seems to con- 

 tinue in a narrow belt close to the trap to near Paoli. 



It will be noticed on the map accompanying Prof. Hall's paper, 

 that this serpentine belt is made continuous from near West 

 Chester into Delaware County in a straight line, except at the 

 eastern end, where a marked southerly' curve occurs near the line 

 of Montgomery Count}', carrying the serpentine well into the 

 rocks of group one. If m}- observations are correct, this line 

 should be a series of disjointed lines, the easterly end of each 

 more northerly than the westerly end of the succeeding ; but, in 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



any event, if the map is correct as to the eastern extremity, the 

 text is not so. 



Mr. Hall's seventh series, page 436, is '' The mica schists of 

 Philadelphia * * * talcose schists, with soapstone and 

 serpentine. They rest unconformablj' upon the first, second, 

 third and fourth groups. * * * There are, besides these 

 groups, probably two serpentine horizons, which are undoubtedly 

 unconformable deposits above the second gi'oup. I think the 

 northern belt of serpentine may be considered as altered Hudson 

 River rock, while the southern belts are doubtful." 



Page 441-442 : " Dr. T. Sterry Hunt insists that the serpen- 

 tines of the Schuylkill are below the Philadelphia schists. * * * 

 At present I am inclined to place these serpentines above the 

 Philadelphia rocks, and by so doing assign the Philadelphia series 

 to a higher group than the Hudson River. * * * To all 

 appearances the serpentine belts which are visible on the Schuyl- 

 kill River at Lafayette Station, Montgomery County, and at a 

 point just north of them, are above the mica schists of Philadel- 

 phia. The southern belt extends in an almost imbroken line from 

 Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, to Bryn Mawr, Montgomery County. 

 A less prominent belt extends from the Schuylkill River to the 

 neighborhood of Rosemont Station, on the Pennsylvania Rail- 

 road, in a parallel line to tlie first belt." 



The meaning of the author in the two opinions first quoted, 

 from pages 441-442, is not altogether clear. If there is depend- 

 ence to be placed on lithological characteristics, the southern or 

 soapstone belt continues far to the southwestward ; as to it, I 

 believe, belong the outcrops on Meadow Run, on botli sides of 

 Darby Creek, near Moro Phillips' chrome-mine, in Radnor Town- 

 ship; thence southwestwardly continuousl}" through Newtown and 

 Marple Townships. In this belt there is one rock described by 

 me man}'- years ago characteristic of it, and, so far as my knowl- 

 edge extends, confined to it (except outcrop at Rosemont here- 

 after referred to) a steatite filled with crystals of serpentine 

 pseudomorphous after staurolite. This rock is very abundant 

 and prominent from Chestnut Hill to a point a short distance 

 west of Mill Creek, and is found also, but not abundantly, west of 

 Darby Creek. The northeasterly portion of this belt contains 

 very little serpentine ; steatite and chlorite constitute the greater 

 part of its mass. Its strike is about S. .^2° W., its bounding 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



rock is the well-known wood-like garnetiferous schist ; partially 

 altered rocks found at the soapstoue quarry' on the Schuylkill 

 seem to show that it has arisen from the pseudomorphism or 

 metamorphism of interstratified hornblendic and micaceotis 

 gneiss and schists. It contains quite a number of minerals. 

 The northerly belt, on the contrary, is little else than a very dark, 

 almost black seri)entine ; except chrysotile and asbestos, and some 

 talc and chlorite, it is almost destitute of minerals, and at Rose's 

 quarry has undoubtedly been formed , not from Hudson River shales, 

 but from a hard, compact enstatitic rock visible there in place, and 

 this rock appears to be unstratified. It extends from the Schuylkill 

 S. 59° W. 1| miles to a point on Barr's farm, where, as a hill, it 

 suddenlj' ends, but it may be traced by fragments to an outcrop 

 in the Conshohocken road, near the house of William Schalliol, 

 and to the south of the former line of strike. Thence it crosses 

 the road to Bryn Mawr east of a small stream, with a course 

 about S. 35° to 40 W., and after crossing seems to curve even 

 more southwardly, but this is on a hillside and is probably due to 

 creep. About 400 yards beyond, in the same direction, fragments 

 are abundant in a field. Through this portion the rock on the 

 north appears to be a very thin bedded compact gneiss, with two, 

 and often three, easy cleavages, together with a peculiar schistose 

 feldspathic gneiss, in which the mica is in small masses or isolated 

 crj-stals. generally with curved surfaces, remaining brilliant on 

 exposure. On the south the rock is a schist, micaceous or chlor- 

 itic,but garnets are almost and perhaps wholly absent. North of 

 this about 250 feet, just at the crossing of two roads, is an out- 

 crop of serpentinous rock, or a hornblendic rock partially altered 

 to serpentine, very ditferent from that in the southerly outcrop, 

 and about 1400 feet S. 60° W. a similar rock appears in quantity 

 forming a small hill. East of the Gulf road, and about S. 43 -• 

 W. from the last, fragments are found in the soil. West of the 

 Gulf road is a conspicuous bluff of serpentine dipping south- 

 wardly, and S. 45° W. an outcrop at Rosemont Station, where it 

 has been quarried. At this point the rock resembles that of the 

 soapstone belt, and is wholly unlike that of any other part of 

 this, which elsewhere closely resembles that near Radnor Station. 

 Mr. Hall makes no mention of the Potsdam sandstone on the 

 south side of the Chester Valle^', further than in his fifth group 

 mentioning sandy beds. 




W82.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Finding, as we do, as has been described by Mr. H. C Lewis 

 and myself, extensive deposits along the base of the South Valley 

 Hill, not only of a remarkably white sand, but of large masses of 

 compact sandstone, very closely resembling that of the North 

 Valley Hill, and the same rock, much decomposed, being found 

 in the valley south of the South Valley Hill, accompanied by iron 

 ■ore as at other places, and finding it nowhere else in the very 

 great exposure of the hydromica schist rock of the South Valley 

 Hill, it would seem more likel}' to be the Potsdam found in the 

 same position east of the Schuylkill than mere accidental beds of 

 sandstone, intercalated in the schists just at those points. 



A trap-dyke has been referred to as lying between the hydro- 

 mica schists of the South Valley Hill and the rocks on the south 

 of it. This is prominent from the Schuylkill for about three and 

 one-half miles to the farm of Mr. Frank Fennimore, near Wayne 

 Station. Here it appears to widen out, and perhaps to divide 

 into two branches, one crossing the railroad and turnpike between 

 Wayne and Eagle, and being ver}^ prominent south and southwest 

 of Eagle store, with a strike approximating S. 60° W. and com- 

 pletely within the gneiss ; the other branch, or a distinct dyke, 

 accompanying the serpentine in a more nearly due west direction. 

 A mile southeast of Berwyn, the latter can be seen almost if not 

 quite in contact with the serpentine, the trap, however, being on 

 the sorith of the serpentine. The same is true south of Paoli, 

 except that the trap appears to be on the north side. Prof. 

 Rogers, page 168, speaks of this trap as " occurring along and 

 outside the northern edge of the serpentine, in a succession of 

 narrow elongated dykes, ranging more N. E. and S. W. than the 

 serpentine." These I have not examined, but such structure 

 agrees precisely with what I have observed of the serpentine 

 further east. 



South of the serpentine, perhaps from a bed in the Radnor 

 gneiss, occur in the fields, often abundantly, a white quartz, 

 weathering yellow on the surface, except certain portions which 

 remain white. The form of many of these seems to forbid the 

 idea of mere accident, and to suggest that they may be due to the 

 remains of organic material which have deoxidized the contained 

 iron; and thus facilitated its removal. 



Note on Damourite from Berks Co., Pevna. — Mr. F. A. Genth, 

 Jr., remarked that a short time ago Mr. H. W. Hollenbush, of 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882- 



Reading, Pa., gave him a specimen of a shaly mineral having a 

 talcose to serpentine-like appearance, but which, when examined 

 chemically, proved to have the composition of a damourite or mica. 



It is found at Rockland Forges, Rockland Township, Berks 

 Co., about three miles northeast from Friedensburg, and occurs as 

 a massive pale grayish-green to light brown mineral with a more 

 or less pearly lustre. Prof. Prime has also sent it from a locality 

 about two and one-half miles south of Blandon ; this specimen is 

 of a pale green color with a somewhat silky lustre, H = 2 — 2.5. 

 G = 2.85, streak white; feel smooth, sometimes slightl}' greasy; 

 odor argillaceous ; massive, lamellar; translucent in thin fragments. 



An analj'sis of the Blandon specimen by Di\ Genth gave him : 



Ignition, ....... 4.86 



K^O, 9.53 



Na^O, 0.36 



FeA, 2.94 



AlA, 32.11 



MgO, tr. 



99.40 



An alkali determination of the specimen from Rockland Forges, 

 gave H,0 = 5.60, K^O = 10.32, Na^O — 0.36, which proves the 

 mineral to be a variety of mica or muscovite. 



Associated with it is found a grayish to reddish white opaque 

 mass of quartz, in the Rockland, and rounded grains of quartz in 

 the Blandon specimen, the latter having a somewhat conglomerate- 

 like appearance. 



June 28, 1880. 



On the Stalactites of Luray Cave. — Dr. A. E. Foote gave a 

 description in detail of a cavern near Luray, Va. He gave a 

 sketch of the ffeolosv of that reoion and described his visit to 

 the cavern. A number of remarkabl}^ sj-mmetrical white and 

 translucent stalactites were exhibited. The rapid growth of the 

 stalactites and stalagmites, and their enormous size, were men- 

 tioned. Curled and twisted stalactites slightly resembling Flos- 

 ferri were exhibited. It was shown that the curling and twisting 

 was due to the fungi which, in the remarkably damp atmosphere 

 of this cave, grew upon the surface of the stalactites and caused 

 the water to deviate from its natural course. Over the surface of 

 the fungus knob-like excrescences and even long lateral branches 

 of carbonate of lime were formed. 



New Localities for Gypsum. — Mr. Lewis reported two new 

 localities for gypsum : Smith's quarry, Easton, where it occurs 

 in tabular crystals ; and Richmond coal-field, Chesterfield Co.,. 

 Va., where it occurs in crystals and in snow-white masses in triassic 

 strata. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 49 



September 27, 1880. 



A Neiv Locality for Sjihene. — Dr. A. E. Foote described the 

 new locality for sphene and associated minerals at Eganville, 

 Renfrew Co., Canada. The sphene occurs in immense crystals, 

 weighing from 20 to 80 lbs., in a vein of apatite 20 feet wide. 

 Many other veins of smaller size occur in the same county. 



The rock is principally liaurentian gneiss and granite. A solid 

 mass of sphene, very highly cleavable (.5X2X2 feet), was 

 observed in the side of the vein. It yielded several hundred 

 pounds of sphene. Close by it double-terminated crystals of 

 scapolite, weighing over 50 lbs., and crystals of pyroxene, weigh- 

 ing from 12 to 30 lbs., were found. Phlogopite and zircons, some 

 of them twinned, occur at the same locality. From the enormous 

 size of all the crystals found in this count}', it must rank as one 

 of the most remarkable mineral localities known. . When the vein, 

 20 feet wide, spoken of above, was discovered, a doublj^-termina- 

 ted crystal of apatite, weighing 500 lbs., and l)right upon the 

 surface and ends, was said to have been found. 



October 25, 1880. 



A New Locality for Hyalite. — Mr. H. C. liEWis reported that 

 he had found he^alite forming green, giass}^ coatings on horn- 

 blendic gneiss at a quarry on Mill Street, Germantown. The 

 mineral has the usual mammillary or botryoidal surface, is perfectly 

 transparent, and has a beautiful light green color. The color is 

 due to the presence of copi)er, as shown by blowpipe tests. 



Note on Autunite Mr. H. C. Lewis remarked that he had 



recently investigated the optical character of the Fairmount 

 autunite. His examination confirmed the orthorhombic character 

 of autunite. The bissectrix is normal to the main cleavage- 

 plane, and parallel to the secondary diagonal planes. The optic 

 axial divergence is 24°. The autunite from Tjimoges, France, 

 has an optic axial divergence of about 38°. 



December 27, 1880. 



Crystalline Cavities in Agate. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand exhibited 

 three specimens of agate, locality unknown, in the centre of each 

 of which was a cavity with plane sides, and casts of these cavities 

 showing them to have been calcite crystals. The method of 

 taking these casts, the sides of the cavities being rough with 

 re-entering angles, was explained. A solution of glue, with about 

 one-fifth of glycerine, of such consistence as to form a thick, firm 

 jelly when cold, but to be perfectly fluid when hot, was prepared 

 and heated. The specimen was then cooled to about 32°; a rough 

 splinter of wood was inserted in the cavity which Avas previously 

 moistened with cold water. A drop or two of the glue solution 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



— hot — was poured in and allowed to become firm. The wood 

 was then carefully' moved until the glue was detached from the 

 stone, but not removed, or if removed the splinter marked so as 

 to be returned to the same position. More glue was then poured 

 in and the operation repeated. A mould was then made of the 

 glue in plaster, and from this type-metal casts obtained. 



January 24, 1881. 



Note on Halotrichite. — Mr. Lewis described two localities of 

 halotrichite in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, and exhibited 

 specimens. It occurs in fine incrustations on hornblendic gneiss 

 on the river drive below Strawberry Mansion, Fairmount Park, 

 and it occurs as an impure efflorescence at the West Jersey marl- 

 pits, where it is mixed with sulphatite and melanterite. 



On Twin Crystals of Zircon. — Dr. A. E. Foote recorded the 

 discovery of perfect twin ciystals of zircon, near Eganville, Renfrew 

 Co., Canada. He had obtained small but imperfect twin crystals 

 over four months before, but sufficiently' distinct to establish the 

 character of the twinning at that time. As in cassiterite and 

 rutile, the twinning plane is 1 — i. It is doubtful if twins of 

 zircon have ever been seen before. 



April 25, 1881. 



Note on the Drift of Lycoming County^ Fa. — Mr. Abraham 

 Meyer contributed some observations on the rocks and drift of 

 Lycoming County, and especially of that portion in the vicinity 

 of Lycoming Creek. He described the exposures on Lycoming- 

 Creek and commented on the various theories proposed to explain 

 the geology of the county. He drew attention to the ridges of 

 drift (" stony batter") on Lycoming Creek and on Hogelau's Run, 

 which he supposed were formed by glacial action. He had found 

 pebbles of granite and of hornblendic gneiss with magnetite in 

 several places in Lycoming and Tioga Counties, and hoped that 

 a careful study would be made of that region. 



Discs of Quartz between Lamin'Se of Mica. — Mr. Theo. D. RA^fD 

 exhibited a curious form of qiuirtz occurring between the laminte 

 of muscovite, from Amelia Co., Va. Part of it was crystallized 

 in the common form, but part was in discs, one-tenth of an inch 

 in diameter and less, which, with polarized light under the 

 microscope, showed a black cross which rotated as the analyzer 

 was rotated. He stated that these disks were much like those 

 from Swaim's quarry, Chester Co., Pa., hitherto undetermined, 

 but much larger than the latter, and that it was probable those 

 from Swaim's were also quartz. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



On Two New Localities of Coluvibite. — Prof. H. Carvill 

 Lewis announced two new localities for the rare mineral, Columbite. 

 Only a single specimen of this mineral has been described from 

 Pennsylvania. An imperfect crystal was found in Nivin's quarry, 

 Chester County, by Mr. Tyson, and noticed by Dr. Genth in his 

 Mineralogy of Penns3dvania (p. 137). 



Attention is now drawn to a beautiful doubly-terminated 

 crystal which was found at Mineral Hill, Delaware County, and 

 which is now in the cabinet of W. S. Vaux, Esq. The crystal is 

 black, with a slightly iridescent surface, and is of about seven- 

 eighths of an inch in length and half an inch in width. The fol- 

 lowing planes are present and have been determined b}- a hand 

 goniometer, viz.: the macropinakoids i <, the brachypinakoids ^ «, 

 the prisms /, the brachydiagonal prisms i 3, the basal pinakoids 

 0, the brachydomes, 2 >, and the brach^^diagonal pyramids 1 3. 



The second locality is the well-known Dixon's quarry, Dela- 

 ware. There is a large fragment of a crystal in the collection of 

 the Academy' marked on the authority- of T. Fisher as from 

 this locality. The specimen weighs over half a pound. Its 

 nature was determined by its ph3'sical and blowpipe characters. 



The occurrence of columbite at these localities is of some 

 geological interest in connection with the determination of the 

 age of the formation containing it, since the associated minerals 

 are similar to those at the columbite localities of Massachusetts 

 and Connecticut. 



On the Occurrence of Fahlunite near ^FhUadelphia. — Prof. 

 Lewis stated that he had found Fahlunite at two localities in the 

 belt of hornblendic gneiss which crosses the northern part of the 

 city. This belt of hoi-nblendic gneiss, especially at its exposures 

 at Frankford and near Germantown, has already' yielded many 

 minerals of interest, but fahlunite has not hitherto been noticed 

 in Pennsylvania. 



Fahlunite occurs disseminated in irregular masses in orthoclase 

 at McKinney's quarry, Rittenhouse Street, and at Nester & Shel- 

 mire's quarry, on Wayne Street, Germantown. Only one specimen 

 was found at the latter place. At McKinney's quarry it occurs 

 in small, pale green masses, somewhat after the manner of the 

 apatite of that locality. It has a scaly structure and a felsi)athic 

 cleavage. It has a hai'dness of about 2.5. Its color is pale 

 apple-green, and when heated it turns dark gra}'. It fuses at 4.5 

 to a dark grayish green opaque glass. It is nearly insoluble in 

 acids. A rough analysis, made by fusing the mineral with sodic 

 carbonate, showed that it consisted principally of silicaand alumina, 

 while containing small quantities of iron and magnesia and 

 traces of lime and soda. It contains 2.8 per cent, of water. 

 Although less hydrous, it resembles the variety of fahlunite 




52 BROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



known as chlorophjdlite, and is perhaps intermediate in character 

 between pinite and fahlunite. 



All the specimens as yet collected have the aspect of pseudo- 

 morphs by alteration. Frequently there is no distinct line of 

 demarkation between the fahlunite and the surrounding ortho- 

 clase, as though one passed into the other. At the line of junction 

 the orthoclase sometimes becomes dull, while the fahlunite, which 

 has its normal character in more central portions of the mass, 

 becomes hard and resembles a greenish orthoclase. These features 

 may be seen in the specimen presented to the Academy. 



May 23, 1881. 



On the Fossil Ores of Lycoming Counly, — Mr. Abraham Meter, 

 described some outcrops of fossil iron ore in Lycoming County. 

 He stated that the ore of Larry Creek formed veins having an 

 average width of 2 feet, but occasional!}' being 4 feet thick. 

 Those veins which are inclined at a high angle (70°-80°) show 

 slickensides on their surfaces, while the more horizontal veins 

 have an oolitic structure. They yield 40 per cent, of metallic 

 iron, although stated b}' the Geological Survey (Report F, p. 235) 

 to contain only 1(5 per cent. Nodules of ore from Beatty's Run 

 frecjuently contain a nucleus of carbonate of iron. 



September 2(3, 1881. 



On a Mineral resembling Dopplerite from a Peat-bed at Scran- 

 ton^ Pa. — Prof. H. Carvill Lewis called attention to a ver^'- 

 interesting substance recently found in a, peat-bog at Scranton. 

 In an excavation for the new court-house at that place, below a 

 deposit of peat, " swamp-muck," and fallen trees, at a depth of 

 some 25 feet from the surface, there occur veins of a black elastic 

 substance which, when first excavated, was a stiff black jell)', but 

 which after drying becomes brittle and nearly as hard as coal. 

 The dried mineral resembles jet, having a brilliant lustre and a 

 conchoidal cleavage. The peat-bog in which this substance was 

 found is said to have been formerly a swamp or lake, which has 

 been filled up in the extension of the town. The deposit of peat, 

 which is covered by about 10 feet of rubbish, is over 15 feet in 

 thickness and is said to burn well. Near the bottom of the peat, 

 in a carbonaceous clay or " muck,'' the black jelly-like substance 

 is found. It occurs in irregular veins, sometimes nearly' perpen- 

 dicular, throughout the lower portion of the peat, and these veins 

 vary in thickness from a mere stain to 2^ inches. Immediately 

 below this deposit, and underlying the whole peat-bog, is a deposit 

 of glacial till or " hardpan." This peat-bog, therefore, like the 

 others so numerous throughout the glaciated region, is of post- 

 glacial age. 



When the substance here described was first received, last July, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



it was soft, bhick and elastic, having a hardness of less than one, 

 and being almost jelly-like in consistency. After partial drying 

 it was nearly as elastic as india-rubber. When a very thin slice 

 was cut by a knife and examined under the microscope, it 

 appeared brownish red by transmitted light, and was nearly 

 homogeneous in character. It was imbedded in and surrounded 

 by peat}^ matter, the latter being tilled with plant remains. Occa- 

 sional oval seeds are imbedded both in the peat and in the jelly-like 

 substance. After drying for three months in the air the mineral 

 was found to have a hardness of 2.5, and to have become brittle. 

 The dried substance has a brilliant resinous lustre and a con- 

 choidal fracture. It has a specific gravity of about 1.03G. It is 

 jet-black in the mass, but its powder has a dark brown color. In 

 the closed tube it yields water and abundance of bi-own oil and 

 empyreumatic vapors. The air-dried substance burns with a 

 yellow flame while held in the flame of a Bunsen burner. In its 

 natural elastic state it burns slowly without giving a yellow flame. 

 It does not dissolve in ether or alcohol, but is entirely dissolved 

 by caustic potash ; and from the dark brown solution thus formed 

 may be precipitated in reddish brown flocculent -masses by the 

 addition of acid. The filtrate from this precipitate has a pale 

 yellow coloi*. These are the properties of humic acid, and it is 

 probable that this substance is an acid hydrocarbon closely related 

 to that acid. 



It is evident that this substance is the direct result of the 

 decomposition of the surrounding peat. It maj^ be of qiiite recent 

 formation. It is of special interest in that it appears to be an 

 intermediate product between peat and true coal, and it illustrates 

 one method of change from the former into the latter. 



In many of its characters this substance closely resembles 

 dopplerite. Dopplerite is a black jelly-like substance, occurring 

 in the peat-beds of Austria and Switzerland. In its method of 

 occurrence it is precisely similar to the Scranton mineral. On 

 exposure it hardens to a hard jet-like substance, which, however, 

 \inlike the Scranton mineral, does not burn with a flame. Dop- 

 plerite has been regarded as a truly homogeneous peat, and has 

 been shown to have the same composition as that substance. It 

 has never been identified in America. Whether th3 mineral from 

 Scranton is to be regarded as dopplerite can only be determined 

 after analysis. It is worthj' of careful examination. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



T1TANIFEE0U8 GAENET. 

 BY H. A. KELLER, 



At Darby, in an almost horizontal rock-stratum, I found the 

 following very interesting occurrence of what seemed at first sight 

 black garnets. The stratum itself is a very much weathered mica 

 schist, 6 to 7 inches in thickness, which contains this often very 

 much decomposed mineral as harder aggregations. The stratum 

 is enclosed by two layers of milky quartz, each about 2 inches in 

 thickness, to which harder less decomposed crystals of a rhombic 

 dodecahedral shape firmly adhere. These ver^^ hard crystals are 

 iisually of a jet-black color,with vitreous, sometimes metallic lustre, 

 passing however often into the very characteristic reddish-brown 

 garnet substance. 



The specimens I found are therefore of two kinds : 1. The 

 very much decomposed aggregations found in the midst of the mica 

 schist. These consist of loose granules of still unaltered garnet 

 mixed with the separated SiO.2. Thej' are only imperfectly held 

 together by cohesion. 2. The hard, jet-black, sometimes partly 

 brown crystals ( oo 0) firmly attached to the quartz lying above 

 and below the hydromuscovite. Their hardness is 7, sp. gr. 4.25, 

 thej' have no streak and are not magnetic, but possess a most 

 remarkable cleavage parallel to the dodecahedral feces. Their 

 composition, 



SiO, 

 TiO, 

 FeO 

 Fe,0, 



A1,0:, 



MnO 

 CaO 

 MgO 



3().92 

 1.14 



27.36 

 3.74 



2(i.54 



.33 



2.76 



1.66 



100.45 



together with their appearance under the microscope, shows that 

 there is a very intimate dissemination of a Ti Fe mineral in the 

 garnet substance. Many of these crystals have from within 

 become partially altered, so much so as to have often formed 

 inside of even the hardest ohes small butwell-cr3'stallized sphenes, 

 others have changed into asbestos, mica, quartz, and even pyrite. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Their outer shape has generally by transformation become par- 

 tially lost in the surrounding hydromuscovite. The Ti has 

 probably been furnished by the two quartz strata, as I have 

 observed, only a few feet distant, many other pieces of quartz 

 impregnated with the same black mineral, while the enveloping 

 strata were perfectl}^ free from it, or had it only partly remaining 

 as the more insoluble FeSj. 



October 24, 1881. 



PyrophylUte and AInnogen in Goal-mines. — Mr. Eli S. Rein- 

 hold made the following communication : 



About two years ago the writer discovered in the coal slates of 

 the North Mahanoy colliery, near Mahanoy City, Schujdkill 

 County, an interesting mineral which, in its determination, defied 

 the ordinary tests based on physical characters. A chemical 

 analysis by Dr. F. A. Genth proved it to be an interesting variety of 

 pyrophyllite. His report to the American Philosophical Society 

 gives the results of the analysis, together with information as to 

 occurrence, etc. 



Attention is here called to that report for two reasons : First, 

 for the purpose of making a correction ; and, second, for a possi- 

 ble connection between pyrophyllite and the recentlj^ discovered 

 alunogen. 



When the writer furnished Dr. Genth with information regard- 

 ing the pyrophyllite, he stated that it was found in hut one vein, of 

 only one mine. He has since found it at four different collieries, 

 and coming from, at least, three different coal-veins. 



Alunogen. — In a valley extending northeast from Mahanoy City, 

 a distance of about a mile, are a number of collieries. A stream 

 of water Hows through it, receiving the mine-water from several 

 of these collieries. During heavy rains the stream overflows its 

 banks and covers a large area with the sulphur-water. The writer 

 noticed, last spring, after the water had subsided, a white mineral 

 coating the surface recently inundated. This mineral proves to 

 be alunogen. In this efflorescent form it has been more abundant 

 this summer than before. 



As foreign mineralogists have noted the occurrence of this min- 

 eral in the coal-slates of Bohemia, Bavaria and England, and as 

 the same mineral is common in our own State, as an efflorescence 

 where iron-sulphide comes in contact with clay, its discovery here 

 in the anthracite coal region maj' be regarded quite natural 

 rather than surprising. However, there is a hint at a different 

 origin of the alunogen found here fi'om that ordinarily given. 

 Instead of it being the result of the sulphur contained in the 

 mine-water uniting with the alumina of the slate, the writer is 

 inclined to think that the latter constituent is furnished by the 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



rapidly decomposing pyrophyllite, which contains fully 27 per 

 cent, of alumina. This opinion is based on two facts : 



1. Onl3^ since pyrophyllite has become abundant has this efflor- 

 escence been noticed. 



2. Only at collieries where pyrophyllite is found, can traces be 

 found of the alum deposit. 



I propose to make some experiments that may throw further 

 light on"the subject ; but facts, as far as observed, point to this 

 origin of a mineral not heretofore credited to this locality-. It 

 adds one more to the extremely limited list of minerals found in 

 the anthracite coal-field. 



New Locality for Mountain Cork. — Theo. D. Rand announced 

 a new locality for mountain cork, about one-third of a mile north- 

 west of Radnor Station, P. R. R., Delaware Co., Pa., where it 

 was found by him in the soil overlying the serpentine belt. 



A New Locality for Aquacreptite. — Mr. Gr. Howard Parker 

 announced a new locality for aquacreptite. He had found it as a 

 seam or vein in partially decomposed micaceous gneiss on Lans- 

 downe Avenue, H miles west of Hestonville, Philadelphia. 



Note on Aquacreptite. — Prof. Lewis remarked that as bearing 

 upon the genesis of aquacreptite, it was of interest to observe that 

 at each of the three localities where that mineral had been dis- 

 covered the rock enclosing it was different from that at either of 

 the other localities, Aquacreptite was first found at Strode's 

 Mill, Chester County, by Mr. Jefieris, as long ago as 1832. It 

 was known by local mineralogists under various names until 

 described by Prof. Shepard, in 1868, as a new mineral. At this, 

 the original locality, it occurred in serpentine. The second 

 locality, near Marble Hall, Montgomery County, was discovered 

 by the speaker in 1872, and is mentioned in Dr. Genth's Report 

 on the Mineralogy of Pennsylvania. It here occurs in a pocket 

 in limestone. At the third localitj^, West Philadelphia, now 

 reported by Mr. Parker, it occurs in gneiss. 



From the existence of aquacreptite in these diverse rocks, it 

 seems probable that its origin cannot be ascribed to any direct 

 alteration, but that, as in clays, it is in part mechanical. 



Aquacreptite is a variety of bole, differing from other varieties 

 in the greater degree of decrepitation which it undergoes when 

 placed in water. Some time ago the speaker had made some 

 experiments to determine the cause of this remarkable decrepita- 

 tion. He had found that it was a i)urely mechanical action due 

 to capillary attraction. When the porous mineral is suddenly 

 immersed in water or any other liquid, the liquid enters its pores 

 so rapidlj^ as to split it open. If, however, it is gradually 

 moistened and the enclosed air is replaced slowly by liquid, no 

 decrepitation takes place upon subsequent immersion. That no 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



chemical action takes place is shown by the fact that if, after the 

 decrepitation of the mineral, the fragments are dried, these frag- 

 ments will again decrepitate when immersed in liquid, and this 

 operation can be repeated as long as any fragments of sufficient 

 size remain. Decrepitation takes place, whatever liquid is nsed, 

 varying in degree with the mobility of the liquid employed. 

 While very energetic in boiling water, it takes place Avitli great 

 slowness in sweet oil. The deciepitation of the aquacreptite of 

 the three different localities varies also with the density of the 

 specimens. The West Philadelphia mineral decrepitates and 

 gives out bubbles the most rapidh\ and the Chester Count}' 

 mineral the most slowly of the three. In some of the Chester 

 County specimens decrepitation takes place very slowly in cold 

 water, being most slow in the most compact specimens. The 

 aquacreptite from Marble Hall falls to the smallest fragments. 

 The hardness varies in different specimens from the same localit}-, 

 the most variable, being however, at the Chester County locality. 

 In general, the aquacreptite of the three localities has the follow- 

 ing hardness, viz.: Chester County, > 2 ; Marble Hall, = 2 ; W. 

 Phila., < 2. 



The emission of air-bubbles, and flie phenomenon of "decrepita- 

 tion when immersed, may be observed in a less degree in several 

 of the varieties of bole; and it is questionable whether a greater 

 amount of a purely mechanical action entitles a substance of 

 probably mechanical origin to a special mineralogical name. 



Quartz Gryi^tals from Nevmrk^ Del Mr. W. W. Jefferis 



stated that he had found a number of doubly-terminated quartz 

 cryr,tals lying loose in the soil at a new locality-, near Newark, 

 Delaware. 



November 27. 1881. 



Some Ochreoua Deposits of Kentucky and Indiana. — Prof. R. B. 

 Warder made the following communication : 



At the village of Francisville, Boone Co., Ky.. a ferruginous 

 mass crops out in the road ; and a specimen of it is herewith 

 exhibited. It consists chiefly of sand, clay and ferric hydrate, 

 witli smaller quantities of manganese and lime. A few rods north 

 of this outcrop are many drift pebbles and some boulders ; but the 

 largest grain of sand observed in the ochreous mass was less than 

 four millimetres in diameter. The Avhole bed seems to consist of 

 rather finely pulverized siliceous drift materials, cemented with a 

 considerable amount of iron ; it resembles bog iron ore in appear- 

 ance, but it probably contains too small a percentage of iron to 

 rank as an ore, and the bed is of ver}- limited extent. 



In the neighboring parts of Indiana, very similar deposits occur 

 at several points in Dearborn, Ohio and Switzerland Counties, 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



which 1 described in 1872.i These outcrops resemble that at 

 Francisville, not only in the character of the materials, but also in 

 their topographical situation and in the character (if the neigh- 

 boring soils, being found in most cases in the portions designated 

 as '• broken upland," '^ about 300 to 400 feet above the level of the 

 Ohio River. 



The question naturally arises whether these various beds are of 

 separate origin, or whether they are detached remnants of exten- 

 sive bog deposits, stretching across the area now occupied by the 

 river and its bottom. 



The beds just described may be compared with certain masses 

 of sand and pebbles, firmly cemented with ferric oxide, which 

 occur in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, and are known as 

 " Bryn Mawr gravel." These beds (as I was told by Prof. H. C. 

 Lewis) occur on both sides of the Delaware, at an elevation of at 

 least 400 feet above that river. The Bryn Mawr gravel, then, 

 resembles the ochreous deposits described in this paper in the 

 General character of the materials, the topogi'aphical situation, 

 and the mode of occurrence ; but differs in containing much 

 coarser drift, more firmly cemented, and probably contains a less 

 percentage of iron. 



vSome Philadelphia geologists regard these scattered deposits of 

 cemented gravel as fragments of one extensive bed. Further 

 study of the ochreous deposits described above, may yield an 

 interesting chapter of recent geological history. 



A New Mweral from Canada.— Dv. A. E. Foote called atten- 

 tion to some very peculiar olive-green crystals which he had noticed 

 associated with the remarkable white garnet found by him in Hull, 

 Province of Quebec, Canada. From the few tests he had applied 

 he thought it might be new, and had sent the material to Mr. E. 

 S. Pana for examination. 



A Peculiar Twinned Gar-net. — Mr. W, W. Jefferis exhibited 

 a curious twinned garnet, in which the smaller crystal fitted 

 looselj- into a cavit}' in the larger. The smaller cr\ stal was of 

 lenticular shape, and could be detached from the larger one, whose 

 dodecahedral outline it seemed to complete. He had found it at 

 Avondale, Chester County, a locality which has furnished several 

 hundred good crystals of garnet, from one to three inches in 

 diameter. 



1 Geol. Survey of lud., 1872, pp. 419, 420. 

 •' Geol. Survey of Ind., 1872, pp. 389 and 423. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



December 23, 1881. 



ON riORITE. 



BY ELI S. REINHOLD. 



Several years ago I received a box of minerals from Placer 

 County, California, which contained a specimen marked *' Horn- 

 blende," so peculiar in appearance, that I laid it aside for special 

 examination. 



I herewith send the specimen, which proved to be diorite, a 

 rock of volcanic origin. The arrangement of the hornblende 

 and feldspar is different from that of any trap-rocks of same com- 

 position in the Eastern States, with which I am familiar. The 

 centre of each nodule is composed of ciystalline granules of the 

 two minerals, hornblende and feldspar ; this is enveloped by a 

 zone of clear white feldspar, followed by another of both minerals 

 in which the crystals are radiately arranged, at least sufficientlj- 

 so to make it apparent to the unassisted e^-e. Another band of 

 feldspar, less pure, however, than the first, is followed by a zone 

 of hornblende which shades off into the coarse, crystalline, granu- 

 lar matrix of hornblende and feldspar of no defined arrangement. 



Not having access to any lithological collection, nor even to the 

 books descriptive of all the varieties of greenstone, I maj^ over- 

 estimate the interest of this California rock. 



A description before me of a diorite found in the Island of 

 Corsica, known as Napoleonite, answers to many points in this 

 specimen. The nodular masses of the Corsican greenstone are 

 described as globular, while in the California rock they are oblate- 

 spheroidal. It would be a matter of interest to ascertain what 

 member of the feldspar group is represented in this rock. All 

 my books agree in assigning the mineral in diorite (generally) to 

 the tricliiiic feldspars; but some give labradorite, others oligo- 

 clase and albite ; while another author calls it a mixture of 

 anorthite and albite. Either the feldspar in diorite from different 

 localities varies, or else opinions in reference to it are very 

 diverse. 



Locality is marked on specimen label. 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



A New Locality for Allanite. — Dr. Isaac Lea presented a 

 specimen of allanite and zircon, in quartz rock, which he had 

 found at Yellow Springs, Chester Count}'^ ; this being a new 

 locality for allanite. 



A New Locality for Copiapite. — Mr. E. S Reinhold presented 

 a specimen of copiapite which he had found at Mahanoj' City. 

 It had been identified by Prof. Lewis, and is now announced as 

 from a new locality. 




1882,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



NOTES ON THE GEOLOGY OF LOWER MERION AND VICINITY. 

 BY THEO. D. RAND. 



Of much intei'est to those interested in mineralogy and geology 

 in Philadelphia is the last volume, C, published b}^ the Geological 

 iSurve}', covering the geologj' of Philadelphia County, and of the 

 southern parts of Montgomery and Bucks, by Chas. E. Hall, with 

 a letter of transmittal by Prof. J. P. Lesley, but I think those 

 acquainted with this region must regret that the publication was 

 not delayed until the adjacent parts of Delaware County were 

 examined, and until more time could be given to the work reported 

 on, that it might be as near perfection as possible. 



Mr. Hall's conclusions are at variance with all our preconceived 

 opinions; but that is no reason for their rejection. If his data 

 are correct, his conclusions seem almost necessarily to follow ; 

 but it ts impossible for an}' one familiar with the district to 

 examine the map and text without a feeling that longer study 

 might have modified the author's views. All will agree with him 

 as to the dirticiilties to be encountered ; but this should have 

 induced the greater care. In Mr. Hall's letter he states (p. xvii), 

 " It has been mj' object to locate accurately the areas of the differ- 

 ent belts of the metamorphosed rocks." And in Prof Leslej^'s 

 letter of transmittal (q. v), " Mr. Hall has not only studied ever^^ 

 individual exposure at least once, and the more important ones 

 repeatedly, but has obtained from them several thousand hand 

 specimens." 



If, as a test, we examine upon the map the serpentine outcrops, 

 which are generall}^ so easy of identification, we shall be disap- 

 pointed. For instance, tracing the steatite belt westward from 

 the soapstone quarries on the Schu3'-lkill, the very distinct out- 

 crop at the corner on Hagy's Ford road, at the road crossing, one 

 mile from the Schuylkill, is whoU}^ omitted. The outcrop on the 

 Black Rock road is represented as extending of a width of about 

 200 feet for about 900 feet eastward of the old Gulf road, 1^ miles 

 from the Schuylkill, while it is, at that point, over 1000 feet in 

 breadth, and extends, though probabl}^ narrowing rapidly, fully 

 2000 feet eastwardly. West of this road; its location on the map 

 is southward of its true position. This portion of the belt is 

 made to end a short distance east of the Roberts road ; whereas, 

 on that road, it appears in place, with the garnetiferous schists 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



bounding it on the nortli, a most distinct outcrop of over a 

 hundred feet in width. Beyond this it is not shown until the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad, at Bryn Mawr, is reached, where a very 

 distinct outcrop 400 feet wide and 1500 feet long is delineated, 

 just below the bridge at Penn Avenue. 



The outcrop on the Roberts road can be followed by abundant 

 fragments in the soil to a point where the southward course of the 

 Black Rock road changes to W. S. W., just north of which a very 

 distinct outcrop is visil)le in the side of the road. 



I am quite familiar with the railroad cut at Bryn Mawr, which 

 is through decomposed mica schists. I have searched in vain for 

 the slightest evidence of steatitic or serpentine rocks in it. 

 Recently the cut was widened. Taking advantage of the fresh 

 exposure, I obtained specimens below Penn Avenue about 

 every ten feet from 1.50 feet to 400 feet, including a light-colored 

 stratum differing from the bright-colored decomposing schists 

 elsewhere. All, without exception, were unmistakably decomposed 

 mica schist with quartz. I believe, therefore, that serpentine and 

 steatite do not there exist at or near the surface. 



Examining the more northerly belt, that north of Lafayette 

 Station, we find it represented as ending about 2000 feet west of 

 the Schuj'lkill, There is, it is true, an apparent break in the belt 

 at this point, and, as it were, a fault, throwing the westerly con- 

 tinuation southward ; but the break is small, and the belt can be 

 traced by al)undant surface fragments to a point between 3000 

 and 4 000 feet from the river, where another fault occurs (or a 

 change of direction more northwestward) and an outcrop in place 

 appears east of a road about a mile from the Schuylkill. Thence, 

 on the map, the outcrop appears continuous ; whereas, at the 

 next road, where there is a gap through which a stream passes, 

 there appears to be a fault, the westerly continuation of the belt 

 being, as it were, shifted northwardl}' more than its width, show- 

 ing on a small, but very distinct scale, the echelon structure so 

 marked in the belt north of the syenite. The outcrop is repre- 

 sented as ending east of the old Gulf or Conshohocken road ; 

 whereas it can be traced by fragments, and one outcrop in place, 

 to the new road to Bryn Mawr at the crossing of a branch of Mill 

 Creek, on the lands of Yocum and Shalliol, where a large distinct 

 outcrop in place occurs, whence it can be followed b}' surface 

 fragments in a more southwesterly direction (S,35° W.'i.than the 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



easterly part of the belt, (S. 40° to 50^ W.), probably 1000 feet. 

 About 250 feet northward from this, and eastward of its ending, 

 is another outcrop of serpentinous rock (another instance of 

 echelon structure ?). About 1400 feet S. 60° W. is another out- 

 crop, forming a distinct small hill not upon the map, and other 

 minor outcrops further westward. The character of rock in the 

 outcrops adjacent, north and south, above mentioned, is different 

 in each. The southerly is talcose and chloritic, the northerlj^ a 

 hornblende-like rock altered into serpentine or some allied mineral. 



The outcrop at Rosemont, Pennsylvania Railroad, from which 

 much stone has been quarried, is not upon the map. 



An outcrop of serpentine is delineated northeast of the cross- 

 ing of the Gulf road and the Mattson's Ford road, or Township 

 Line road, and (p. 3) located northwest of Mechaniesville.^ 



The rock at the point indicated on the map, which is within one- 

 eighth of a mile southeast of Gulf Mills, and over one-half mile 

 southwest of Mechanicsville, is altered h3-dromica schist. It 

 bears a remarkable resemblance to the decomposed schists in the 

 cut of the Pennsylvania Railroad at Bryn Mawr. There are out- 

 crops of serpentine, one in place on the Gulf road, about .500 feet 

 S. S. E. of the cross-roads ; the other, fragments in the soil, about 

 700 feet southeast. There is also an outcrop of similar serpentine, 

 with steatite, on the Mattson's Ford road, just east of the Dela- 

 ware County line. This is not upon the map. These outcrops, 

 and another westward, were described in the Proceedings Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., 1878, page 402, as belonging to a then undescribed 

 northerly belt. 



Mr. Hall (page 89 ) connects that on the Gulf road with the great 

 belt passing through Radnor and througli Chester County. He 

 evidently has not examined the westerly outcrops. 



The limestone in Upper Merion, just north of Gulf Mills (the 

 south end of the Gulf), interesting in connection with that a mile 

 farther up the Yalley. is not upon the map, nor the eurite and the 

 garnetiferous schists southeast. 



Turning to the text, we find it stated (page ix) that " The ser- 



' On the map the name Mechanicsville appears to be given to the settle- 

 ment at the south end of the Gulf, correctly Gulf Mills, which name 

 it has borne for much over a century. Gulf Mills, on the map and in the 

 text, is applied to McFarland's Mills at the north end of the Gulf. Mechan- 

 icsville is a small town, formerly known as Rebel Hill, in a gap over one- 

 half mile south of the Gulf. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



pentine belt of Bryn Mawr, instead of passing in a straight line 

 southwest through Delaware and Chester Counties towards Marj^- 

 land, swings around southward in a curve towards Chester, on the 

 Delaware, not in an unbroken line, but in a series of projections, 

 like the teeth on a circular saw, some of which reach Chester 

 Creek." 



Without a map of these outcrops the precise meaning is not 

 clear, but if a line be drawn upon the map,^ connecting the Schu}-!- 

 kill soapstone quarries with the westernmost outcrop on the Black 

 Rock road, and be ])roduccd southwestwardl}- to Chester Creek, 

 the outcrop on Meadow Brook will be found three-quarters of a 

 mile northwest of this line ; that on Darby Creek, one mile north- 

 west ; that on the West Chester road, one-half mile northwest; 

 that on the road from Newtown Square to Palmer's Mills, upon 

 it, or very little northwest; that at Blue Hill, upon it; that on 

 Dismal Run, thirteen miles from the Schu\ikill, a quarter of a 

 mile southeast; that at Lenni on Chester Creek, about a mile 

 southeast. 



If, in like manner, we produce a line passing through the 

 Lafayette belt, from the Schuylkill to Rosemont, the Meadow 

 Brook outcrop will be found upon it ; that on Darby Creek, quar- 

 ter of a mile northwest ; West Chester road, less than a quarter 

 of a mile southeast ; Palmer's Mills, one mile southeast ; Blue 

 Hill, one mile southeast ; Dismal Run, 1^ miles southeast; Lenni, 

 about two miles southeast. 



Page 12, we find, "The primal * * * is not recognizable 

 west of the Schuylkill river, south of the south edge of the 

 auroral limestones of the valley in the South Valley Hill." 



Page 32. '• West of the Montgomery County line, near the 

 southern margin of this group " (the South Valley Hill schists), 

 "we find garnetiferous mica schists." 



Page 36, " West of West Conshohocken the Potsdam does not 

 exist, and the limestone rests directly upon the Laurentian;" 

 but we find no mention of the sandstone and beds of sand, result- 

 ing from its decomposition, flanking the Chester Valley on the 

 south, described by Prof. H. C. Lewis, in the Proceedings of the 

 Mineralogical Section of the Acad. Xat. Sci., No. 1, page 93. 



1 I have used map of Delaware County, by G. M. Hopkins & Co., of 

 Philadelphia, 1876, which I believe to be the most accurate map of the 

 County. 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



West of West Conshohocken. a rock wholly iiulistinguishable 

 from the eurite of Barren Hill, which Mr. Hall considers proved 

 to 1)0 Potsdam, does occur at sevei'al (at least three) localities, 

 viz. : southeast of Mechanicsville, in Radnor just west of the 

 county line, and at Wayne, P. R. R. 



That the limestone rests directl}' upon the Laurentian is more 

 than doubtful, for while they cannot be observed between the two 

 adjacent outcrops near the river, yet if the lines of the two be 

 prolonged, mica schists, garnetiferous mica schists, and the pecu- 

 liar thin-bedded feldspathic gneiss with crystals of hornblende 

 found south of the syenite between the serpentine and steatite, 

 can be seen, having a breadth of proljalily over three hundred 

 feet, within a thousand westward of the limestone exposure. 



There are three facts tending to prove that Cream Valley on 

 the south side of the South Valle}' Hill is, though very narrow, 

 similar in structure to the Chester Valley : 



I. The presence of limestone. 

 II. The existence of iron ores resembling those of the Potsdam. 



III. The presence of eurite. 



On page 27 the Manayunk mica schists and gneisses are stated 

 to extend from the vicinity of Haddington on the south to 

 Ardmore on the north. 



There is no mention made of the porphyritic gneiss which 

 begins eastwardlv as a narrow belt at tlie Falls of Schuylkill, this 

 rock by its superior hardness causing the " falls." It widens out 

 westwardly until at the Pennsylvania Railroad it attains a width 

 exceeding a mile, and occupies fully one-half the limits above 

 quoted. It extends southward to Market Street ; south of this I 

 have not examined. It is too important a belt, not only in its 

 extent, but also in its uniformity throughout its whole limits, to 

 be ignored in a study of the region. The same may be said of 

 the P^rankford gneiss which appears to extend as a distinct and 

 characteristic belt, but with a strike much more east and west 

 than the other rocks, from Frankford to the Wissahickon. 



That the syenite belt south of the South Valley Hill is an anti- 

 clinal seems beyond question. Now both on the north and south 

 of it occur thin-bedded micaceous gneiss and hornblendic gneiss, 

 succeeded by garnetiferous mica schist. In the syenite, or very 

 close to it in the micaceous gneiss, both on the north and south 

 occur beds of serpentine, of almost identical appearance, and in 




06 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



the mica schists, steatite, talc and serpentine very similar in 

 character on both sides of the anticlinal. So nearl}^ vertical are 

 all the dips that no very cogent argument can be derived from 

 them. 



North of the schists is eurite, almost undoubtedly Potsdam 

 sandstone, then altered schists, limestone, trap, and then the 

 South Valley Hill. 



My view of a section along a line from Bryn Mawr northwest 

 to a point in the north line of Radnor Township, Delaware County, 

 about a half mile west of the east line, that is west of Mr. Hall's 

 line H, and bearing a few degrees more northeast and southwest 

 in order to connect one of the limestone outcrops in Cream Valley 

 with the Rosemont serpentine outcrop, is given herewith. Out- 

 crops of all the rocks are exposed within little over a half mile of 

 this line, and all save the eurite, and the southern steatite belt, 

 almost or quite upon it, though the characters of the rocks can 

 in some cases be better studied in more distant outcrops, of 

 undoubtedly identical rocks. 



1. Syenite. 



NOUTHWAKD. SOUTHWARD. 



Thin bedded micaceous gneiss. 



2. Serpentine. 2'. Serpentine. 



I Thin-bedded gneiss. [Mica schist and thin-bedded 



1 Micaceous gneiss. \ gneiss with crystals of born- 



3. -i Feldspathic gneiss with crystals 'j blende. 



I of hornblende. | Ilornblendic gneiss. 



[^ Hornblendic gneise. 



4. Steatite with serpentine. 4'. Steatite with serpentine. 



5, Mica schists and garnetiferous 5', Garnetiferous mica schists. 



mica schists. 

 Eurite. 



Schistose gneiss. 

 Limestone. 

 Schistose gneiss. 

 Trap. 



South Valley Hill bydromica 

 schists. 

 Now if this succession occurs, if of 2 and 2', 4 and 4', each 

 most closely resembles the other, and 3 and 3', 5 and 5', are 

 not unlike, is it not strong evidence that the structure is a simple 

 anticlinal ? 



I submit hcrewitii a map of the region showing most of the 

 outcrops mentioned. 




1882.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



^Wayn» 



\s 



^ at- j4,. S . 





MAP OF OUTCROPS 



o'"SE/fPENT/N£ TffAPst^^ 



in, 



£o*>r€rMeribn. and licinify 



S : ^erfitrvttne M L -Zimeshne 

 T : T^a^ £ strife 



O : Camelt'/erouSfScMtis 

 Scale 



^^.7>^rui'. 




^8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



On PhytocoUite, a New Mineral— Y*vot Lewis reported that, 

 having made a farther examination of the bhick jell3'-like sub- 

 stance from the Scranton peat-bog, to which lie had drawn atten- 

 tion at the September meeting, he had found that it had characters 

 differing from those of any other mineral heretofore described. 

 Bv dissolving it in a standard solution of alkali he had found that 

 it had an acid reaction, and was, therefore, to be regarded as an 

 organic acid. It is probably related to some of the varying forms 

 of humic acid. 



The following analysis, kindly made by Mr. J. M, Stinson, 

 of Harrisburg, was made upon material" which was carefully 

 separated from the surrounding earthy matter, and which, before 

 analysis, was dried at a heat of 212== F. 



or without ash. 



100. 



100. 



This anal^^sis would yield the empirical formula Ci„H.,0„;. 



In its composition, this substance is remarkable for the low per- 

 centage of carbon which it contains. 



It differs from dopplerite piincipally in its composition (dop- 

 plerite having the formula C, H :„(),„), and also by its partial solu- 

 bilit}' in alcohol and its burning with flame. 



Instead, however, of giving this mineral a specific name, it is 

 now suggested to group together, under one generic name, all those 

 jelly-like substances produced by vegetable decomposition which 

 are found in nature. 



The name Phi/tocollite {if»Tw /d/./.a), signifying plant-jelly, 

 would include tht mineral from Scranton, the dopplerite of Austria 

 and Switzerland, the jelly-like mineral from Finckenbach, St. Gall, 

 which Deicke describes as burning vvith a bright flame, and all 

 similar minerals of like origin. Each of the above minerals 

 would, therefore, be classified as varieties of phytocollite. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 69 



February 7, 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



Filaria of the Black Bass. — Prof. Leidy stated that he had 

 been told that the black bass, Micropterus nigricans^ in some 

 localities is much infested with a red thread worm. One procured 

 in market a few days since for his table, was found to be greatl}' 

 infested. The worms were coiled in oval masses from the size of 

 a pea to that of a large bean, and were situated beneath the skin, 

 in the muscles and under the membrane lining the abdomen. The 

 worm is cylindrical, slightly narrowed and obtusely rounded at 

 both ends, minutel}- annulate and otherwise smooth, pale red, 

 bright red, or brownish red, translucent, with the darker red", or 

 brownish intestine and the white oesophagus shining through. 

 Mouth a small pore, unarmed ; anus a transverse elliptical pore, 

 terminal. (Esophagus long, capacious, c^dindrical, straight or 

 somewhat tortuous, slightly expanded below where it is constricted 

 from the intestine, which is likewise expanded at the commence- 

 ment, and ends in a short, more translucent rectum. Ovarium and 

 ova indistincti}- seen. Length from 3 to 6 inches by half a line 

 in diameter. 



The worm appears to be a Filaria, but the determination of the 

 species was left for more extended observation. 



February 14. 

 Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty -six persons present. 



Sj)onges from the neighborhood of Boston. — Mr. E. Potts ex- 

 hibited some fragments of fresh-water sponges collected in tlie 

 Cochituate Aqueduct and sent to him b}' the Superintendent of 

 the Boston Water Works. Alluding to the deleterious effects 

 recently attributed to this sponge, as the cause of the pollution of 

 ihe Boston water-supply, he said he was not prepared either to 

 affirm or deny it. While he was well aware that a decaj'ing fresh- 

 water sponge was one of the foulest things in nature, in his own 

 experience he had never met with it in sufficient quantities, locally, 

 to suppose it capable of tainting, in its decay, millions of gallons 

 of water, as now represented. 



An examination of the sponge as to its specific relations, revealed 

 some peculiar facts. Primarily it was evident that the sp(mge was 




TO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



much "mixed'- ; the presence of two or more species being ver^' 

 apparent. 



One of these, with long branching finger-like processes, smooth 

 skeleton spictihv, no appearance of dermal or flesh spiculae, while 

 the abundant smooth statospheres retained few if any acerate 

 spicules, boi'e a sufliciently close resemblance to the description 

 of Spongilla paiipercula as given by Dr. Bowerbank from speci- 

 mens collected in the saine or a neighboring locality before 1863. 



With this form was found another, probably altogether sessile, 

 consisting of an intertexture of stout fusiform acerate skeleton 

 spicules, abruptly pointed, coarsely spined, except near the ex- 

 tremities, spines subconical, acute ; dermal spicules absent or un- 

 discovered ; statospheres without granular coating, some of them 

 exhibiting a few misplaced, irregular, or malformed birotulate 

 spicules, the distinguishing feature of which is the prolongation 

 of the familiar boss upon the outer surface of each rotulc into a 

 long acuminate spine, in line with, and a continuation of the shaft. 

 He suggested for this species, provisionally, the name Meyenia 

 acuminata. 



The exceptional features referred to above, as marking this collec- 

 tion of sponges were: Firaf^the factthatall the statospheres, whether 

 belonging to the genus Spongilla or Meyenia, were smooth, that is 

 without a granular or cellular "crust;" second^ the apparent 

 absence of dermal spicules in both and the abnormal character of 

 those belonging to the statospheres. The appearance is not infre- 

 quent, but has. so far as known, heretofore been limited to the 

 genus Spongilla. The recurrence of the same feature in the 

 associated genus Meyenia, coupled with the fact that many of the 

 birotulates upon its statospheres, were imperfect, the rays being 

 more or less aborted, approximating their shape to that of the 

 spined fusiform acerates of Spongilla, gave rise to the suggestion 

 that here,i)ossibly, had been, not merely a mechanical mixture by 

 inter- or super-position of species, but an organic hybridization 

 produced by the flowing together of the amoeboid particles of 

 which the sponges are composed, or even by a fertilization of the 

 ova of one by the spermatozoids of the other. 



Several facts indicative of the probability that such hybridiza- 

 tion may take place were adduced, and the further discussion of 

 the subject deferred until an examination of the living sponge in 

 its native locality, or experiments upon those germinated in con- 

 finement, could be made. 



It is important to notice that the specimens received were col- 

 lected in Februar}', when the sarcode matter had nearly all been 

 washed away, with, probably, accompanying changes in the pres- 

 ence or numbors of the smaller spiculae. 




1882.] NATTlRAr, SniENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. tl 



February 21. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



The deaths of John W. Draper and Theo. Schwann, cor- 

 respondents, wei'e announced. 



The death of Robert Bridges, M. D., having been announced, 

 Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger was appointed to prepare a biograph- 

 ical notice for publication in the Proceedings. 



February 28. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



On Tourmalines. — Prof. Leidy said, in absence of other mat- 

 ter's of more importance, he would exhibit a collection of 

 toiu'malines which belonged to him, and which he thought from 

 their variety would interest the members. He remarked tliat 

 while black tourmalines are the most common, white ones are 

 rarest. Recently, good-sized crystals of the latter had been found 

 at De Kalb, St. Lawrence Co., New York. From a broken crj'stal 

 he h^d obtained a fragment, from which the beautiful gem pre- 

 sented w^as cut. This is of brilliant form, highly lustrous, 

 transparent, flawless, and nearly colorless,or with only the faintest 

 yellowish tint, like that of a so-called "off-color" diamond; and 

 weighs 398 inillegrammes. Some remarkable black tourmalines 

 were brought to this city, a couple of years ago, by Lieut. Wm. A. 

 Mintzer, U. S, N., who obtained them at Niantilik, Cumberland 

 Gulf, Arctic America. They are generally three- or six-sided 

 crystals, with a single three- or six-sided pyramidal termination, 

 of various sizes. A large one in Prof. Leidy 's possession is 

 thirteen inches long and one and three-quarter inches at the 

 pyramidal extremity. Perhaps the most beautiful black tourma- 

 lines, recently discovered in abundance, are those of Pierrepont, 

 St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. They are remarkable for their perfec- 

 tion ; occurring as doubl^'-terminated crystals, of large size and 

 brilliant lustre. Fine brown tourmalines, often of large size and 

 frequently doubly .terminated, with one extremity much modified 

 from the usual form, have also been found in abundance in late 

 years, at Gouverneur, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. It may be said 

 that this State is pre-eminent for the beauty of its black, white, 

 and brown tourmalines. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



The chief localities for colored tourmalines, other than the 

 varieties mentioned, are the Urals, Ceylon, Elba, Brazil and 

 Maine. Of the collection, those from the latter two localities 

 most resemble one another ; cr3^stals of the same ordinary tourma- 

 line green color, others of a green color and garnet red-axis, and 

 some with different parts of the prism colored pink and green, of 

 varied depth. The pink is sometimes as delicate as that usual in 

 Elba tourmalines, and sometimes as deep and bright as that of the 

 deepest-hued pink topazes of Brazil. The Maine tourmalines 

 exhibit a Avonderful A-ariety of shades of green and red, ranging 

 from the darkest hues to the transparent colorless variety called 

 achroite. The largest and finest achroites seen by Prof. Leidy, 

 have been derived from the Mt. Mica locality. 



Among the Maine tourmalines in the collection, chiefly obtained 

 through Dr. A. C. Hamlin, of Bangor, the following were especially 

 indicated : 



1. A three-sided prismatic crystal with one end flat, the other a 

 trilateral pyramid, four inches long, and ten lines wide. One 

 half towards the pyramidal end is green, dark and nearly opaque 

 at first, but becoming transparent apple-green; the other half is 

 green on the exterior, but has a garnet-red axis towards the flat 

 end, passing into pale pink towards the middle of the crystal. 

 The specimen is broken into five fragments, a condition quite 

 common in the larger Maine tourmalines, and supposed to be due 

 to the action of frosts. 2. Two fragments of a cr3-stal, an inch 

 and a half in diameter, of a bright, rose-topaz color, becoming 

 nearl}' colorless and then ending in an apple-green plate, forming 

 a flat termination of the crystal. 3. A fragment of a three-sided 

 cr3^stal, an inch long and an inch and a half wide, consisting of 

 transparent achroite, with one end covered with Cookeite. 4. A 

 dark green three-sided crystal with trilateral pyramid, an inch 

 and a quarter long, and tin-ee-fourths of an inch in diameter. 

 The base was occupied with a spherical nodule of achroite, from 

 which was cut a beautiful gem, of brilliant form, flawless, perfectly' 

 transparent, and weighing 400 millegrammes. It is nearly color- 

 less, but has a faint pinkish hue. 



Among the Brazilian tourmalines were the following : 



1. A large, three-sided crj'stal, with pyramidal termination, 

 rich tourmaline-green, transparent and flawless. It was originally 

 two inches and a half long, and is eight lines wide. From its 

 base a fine brilliant was cut, weighing 5980 millegrammes. 

 2. Two small green crj'stals with p3'ramidal termination, one 

 pale red at the terminal end ; the other of the same color at the 

 base. 3. Two large six-sided cr3'stals with flat termination, green 

 cxternall3', with garnet-red axis. One an inch and a half long, 

 and three-fourths of an inch thick ; the other an inch and a quarter 

 long, and an inch thick. 4. A rubellite of garnet-red color ; a 

 three-sided crystal with pyramidal termination, an inch long, and 

 seven-eighths broad. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Brilliant cut specimens of rose-red tourmaline from Maine and 

 Brazil were alike, in color. An Elba tourmaline about an inch in 

 lengtli was six-sided with a three-sided pyramid. The base is 

 yellowisli green ; the upper extremity pale pink. A Ural rubel- 

 lite, garnet-red, was six-sided with a six-sided pyramid. 



Frank E. P. L3nde was elected a member. 



Robert Hartmann, of Berlin ; W. Kowalewsky, of Moscow, and 

 K. Martin, of Leiden, were elected correspondents. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882 



THE SPECIES OF ODONTOMYIA FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES. 

 BY DR. L. T. DAY. 



In this paper I have confined myself exclusively to the descrip- 

 tion of the species found in the United States. 



0. limbipenms Macq. I have left out entirelj^, for the following 

 reason : on page 255 of Baron Osten Sacken's valuable catalogue 

 of X. A. Diptera, note 57, he says: "The label in Macquart's 

 handwriting in Mr. Bigot's collection bears America^ Avith a 

 query ; the query is omitted in the Dipt. Exot. I doubt that this 

 is a North American species." Of- the Canadian species 0. (Sfrat- 

 iomys) canadensis Walk., and 0. inequalis Loew, Hudson Baj' 

 Ter., only the latter has been identified ; probably the former 

 never will be. Of the Mexican species none have been identified. 

 Of the Cuban, 0. rujipes and 0. scalaris Loew are marked as 

 being identified. Olivier, in the Encycl. Method, viii, gives the 

 following generic characters, which I insert in the original, as 

 they may be of service to some : 



Antennes a peine de la longueur de la tete, filiformes.terminefes 

 en pointe ; articles courts, presqu'e'gaux. 



Trompe courte ; gaine recourbee sendue et renflee a son ex- 

 tremite. 



Trois soies inegales ; levre superieure courte, echancree. 



Antennules courtes, biarticulees, en masse. 



Ailes avec une cellule centrale, petite, polygene. 



In the following table I have included only those species which 

 are new, and those identified in my collection. Those species of 

 Loew not in the table, and of Say, Walker, Wiedemann and 

 Olivier, I have inserted at the end of the descriptions represented 



in the table. 



Synopsis of Speciei^. 



Head black, ......... A. 



Head with yellow or green markings, .... F. 



A. Dorsum of thorax pubescent, ..... B. 

 Dorsum of thorax pilose, ...... C. 



B. Face with an eminence below the base of the antennae, 



nigra, sp. n. 

 Face gentlj' arched without eminence. . pJeheJa TiOew. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



C. Face of male small, fava sp. ii. 



Face of male of usual size, ...... D. 



D. Femora black, pilosus sp. n. 



F'emora not black, ....... E. 



E. Second joint of antennte shorter than the fii-st, 



pubescens, sp. n. 

 Second joint as long or longer than first, americana^ sp. n, 



F. Dorsum of thorax with lateral stripes, . . . H. 

 Dorsum Avith spots on the posterior angles, . . G. 



G. Color markings luteous, . . . microstoma Loew. 

 Color markings greenish, .... hicolor sp. n. 



H. Face with distinct black spots, . . . WiUistoni sp. n. 

 Face without black spots, ...... I. 



I. Dorsum of thorax Avith two spots on the suture, 



viegacejihala Loew. 



Dorsum of thorax without spots on the suture, 



extremis sp. n. 

 Odontomya nipia sp. n. 9 



Black. Head black. Occipital disk black. Front shining 

 black, in the central groove a stripe of a golden hue. Antennae 

 ferruginous red, the first two joints of nearly equal size, the third 

 longer than both and tipped with brown or black. Face promi- 

 nent, black, and sparsely pubescent with golden pile ; a well- 

 defined eminence is situnted beneath the antenns^. Oral aperture 

 small, proboscis black, so also labii and palpi. Thorax black, 

 covered with golden pubescence. Scutellum concolorous, also 

 clothed with the pile, the terminal bristles brownish yellow. 

 Halteres green. Abdomen dark yellow ; the median stripe black 

 and forms a triangular spot in each segment, the base anterior. 

 Yenter brownish 3'ellow. Legs luteous. Wings In'aline ; third 

 longitudinal vein simple ; the discal cell emits two veins. 



Long. Corp. 4 lin., long. al. 8 lin. 



^a6.— Kansas (E. W. Guild). 



Note. — In one of the specimens the abdomen is black, with a feeble 

 attempt at markings near tlie incisures by way of golden pile; the antennae 

 are black, and the terminal joints of the middle and posterior tarsi. 



Odoutomyia plebeja Loew. ^ 9 • 



$. Black; the wiiole head concolorous; face not prominent, 

 gently arched and clothed with golden yellow pile. Antennae 

 reddish at the base, the terminal joint being black. Thorax black 




T6 PROCEEDINGS Or THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



and clothed with golden yellow pubescence. Scutellum concolor- 

 ous, the apical spines yellowish. Hal teres green. Abdomen green, 

 with a black irregular stripe, extending almost to the posterior 

 margin of the fifth segment. Venter green, immaculate ; legs 

 wholly yellow. Wings hyaline, the veins j^ellow, the third longi- 

 tudinal simple, the discal cell emits two veins. 



9. Front black with irregular spots of subaureous tomentose. 

 Face and thorax clothed with subaureous tomentose in place of 

 the golden yellow pile in the male. 



Long. Corp. 3^ lin., long. al. 3 lin. 



Hah. — Kansas (Guild) ; Mass. (Williston) ; Conn. (Norton). 

 Odoacomyia flava sp. n. ^ 



Black; head concolorous, antennse black. Face small, black, 

 clothed with yellowish pile ; borders of the mouth slightly reddish. 

 Thorax black, clothed with golden pile. Scutellum black, the 

 terminal spines concolorous. Halteres j'ellow. Abdomen 3'ellow, 

 with black median stripe, the yellow running in at the incisures, 

 thus forming connected quadrangular black spots in the segments. 

 Venter yellow, immaculate; legs yellowish; femora brown; tarsi 

 black ; anterior and middle tibiae with a solitary brownish ring. 

 Wings hyaline, A^eins yellow, third longitudinal simple, the discal 

 cell emits three veins, the posterior being rudimentary. 



Long. Corp. 5i lin., long. al. 4 lin. 



Hab. — Wyoming (Dr. Williston). 



Note. — This is described from a single specimen, and the rudimentary 

 vein emitted from the discal cell may not hold as a good character for 

 distinguishing species. 



Odontomy'a pilosus sp. n. ^ 



Black. The whole head concolorous. Antennae black. The 

 face prominent and thickly clothed with long yellowish pile. 

 Thorax and scutellum black and also thickly clothed with the 

 long yellowish pile, the terminal spines of the scutellum yellow. 

 Halteres yellow. Abdomen black, and sparsely clothed with the 

 yellowish pile, laterally are triangular yellow spots running in 

 transversely at the incisures. Venter yellow, with small brown 

 spots in the median line, situated in the middle of each segment. 

 Legs blackish ; femora black, the under side covered with a thick 

 growth of yellow hair; the distal half of all the tibiae black, the 

 proximal portion being yellow ; tips of tarsi black. Wings hya- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIKNCKS OF I'Hl I.ADELPHIA. 77 



line, the veins reddish brown, third longitudinal simple, the discul 

 cell emits two veins. 



Long. Corp. 6 lin., long. al. 4^ lin. 



Hab. — California (Baron). 

 OdoTitomyia pubesoens sp. n. ^ 9 



9 . Black. The whole head concolorous. Front sparsely 

 golden pubescent. Antennae black, the first joint longer than the 

 second. Face prominent and covered with golden pubescence. 

 Proboscis black. Thorax black, with golden pubescence. Scutellum 

 black, also pubescent, the apicpl spines yellow. Halteres green. 

 Abdomen black, with lateral transverse yellow stripes at the 

 incisures. Venter yellow^ with irregular brownish spots. Legs 

 brownish yellow. "Wings hyaline, veins brownish yellow, third 

 longitudinal vein simple, the discal cell emits tw'o veins. 



Long. corp. 4i lin.. long. al. 4 lin. 



Bab.— 'Sew York (Dr. Williston). 



$. Black. The face covered with a thick yellowish pile, as also 

 the thorax : the apical spines of the scutellum yellow. Halteres 

 yellow. The yellow spots at tlie incisures of the abdomen more 

 prominent than in the female. Legs yellowish brown, femora 

 tipped with black. 



Hab. — California (Baron) ; New York. 



Note. - In one of the male specimens the halteres are green, in another 

 from tlie same locality yellow. I do not consider the change of color of 

 any value; in the living specimens they were probably green. 



Odontomyia americana pp. n. ^ . 



Black. Head black. Antennte reddish brown, the second joint 

 as long or longer than the first. Face small, not prominent. 

 Proboscis Vilack. Thorax black and covered with a yellowish 

 white pubescence. Scutellum the same, the apical spines being 

 yellow. Halteres green. Abdomen green, with a median black 

 stripe of nearly equal breadth throughout. Venter green, immacu- 

 late. Legs yellow. Wings hyaline, veins j^ellow, the third longi- 

 tudinal simple, the discoidal cell emitting two veins. 



Long. Corp. 4 lin., long. al. 3 lin, 



Hab.— Cal (Baron). 

 Odontomyia microstoma Lo-^w. 9 • 



Black-yellow. Head yellow ; occiput yellow. Front widens 

 slighth' anteriorly, about the centre or on either side is situated a 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



brownish spot, anterior to this it is clear, posterior sparsely 

 mottled ; ocellar triangle black, and on each side is a brownish 

 spot. Antennae brownish black ; the first two joints c.ylindrical, 

 brownish ; the terminal end of the second darker ; the third black, 

 tapering to a point. Face not prominent, moderately convex and 

 clothed with dilute yellow pile. Oral aperture small ; proboscis 

 black ; labii brownish ; palpi yellow. 



Dorsum of thorax black, subaureous pubescent, posterior angles 

 yellowish. Scutellum yellow, the apical spines tipped with black. 

 Abdomen brownish yellow, the central black stripe is interrupted 

 by median yellowish spots. Venter dilntely yellow, laterally with 

 two dark stripes. Legs dark yellow ; posterior tarsi obscurely 

 brown. Wings hyaline, veins yellowish, third longitudinal simple; 

 the discoidal cell emits two veins. 



Long. Corp. 5 lin., long. al. 4 lin. 



^a^r— Mass., N. Y. (Dr. Williston). 



Note. — "The last two segments of the third joint of the antennae in tins 

 species form a suf3ficieutly acute style, as may be shown ; the antennae of 

 this are not dissimilar to those of Clitellaria, but the downward course of 

 the veins in this species demonstrates its place in the Odontomyise." — LoEW. 

 Odontomyia bicolor sp. n. ^ . 



Black-green. Head large, 3'ellowish green. Occiput 3-ellowish 

 green. Antennte reddish brown, the terminal segment of the 

 third joint tipped with black. Face prominent, green, sparsely 

 pubescent with yelloAV. Proboscis brownish black. Thorax 

 black, the posterior angles yellow, the lateral borders clothed 

 with 3'ellow pile. Pleura green and clothed with 3'ellow pile. 

 Base of scutellum black, bordered with yellow ; the apical 

 spines 5'ellow, tipped with black, Halteres green. Abdomen 

 green, with a median black irregular stripe. Tenter green, 

 immaculate. Legs reddish, the femora being 3'ellowish towards 

 the body, the tarsi black. Wings hyaline, veins brownish, the 

 third longitudinal simple ; the discal cell emits three veins. 

 Long. Corp. 6 lin., long. al. 4^ lin. 

 i/a6 —Cal. (Baron). 

 Odontomyia Willistoni sp. n. 9 • 



Green. Head and occiput green. Front broad, green, with 

 two brownish spots on each side near the orbit, also a central 

 brown spot just anterior to the ocellar triangle. Antennae black. 

 Face greenish, prominent, with an irregular black spot on each 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



side extending from the base of tlie tmtennie downward. rrol)os- 

 eis black. Thorax bkck, sparsely pubescent, bordered laterally 

 with yellowish green, extending to the posterior angles. Pleurae 

 yellowish green, with a central narrow black stripe extending to 

 beneath the halteres. Scutellum green, apical spines yellowish. 

 Halteres green. Abdomen green, with a central black irregular 

 ■stripe, which terminates in the middle of the last segment. Legs 

 yellowish, concolorous. Wings hyaline, veins yellow, the thu'd 

 longitudinal simple ; the discal cell emits three veins. 



Long, corp. 4 lin., long. al. 3 lin. 



Hab.—^ew York (Dr. Williston). 



The above species is respectfully dedicated to Dr. S. W. Willis- 

 ton, to whom I am greatly indebted for the use of his extensive 

 collections in the preparation of this paper. 



OloDtomyia megacep^a'a Loew. ^ 9 



$. Black-green. Head and occiput 3-ellowish green ; the head 

 very large. Antennae reddish, the terminal joint being almost 

 black. Face yellowish green, immaculate, not prominent, receding 

 towards the oral aperture. Proboscis black. Thorax black, 

 pubescent with yellow, the lateral borders and posterior angles 

 green ; there is also a greenish spot on each side of the thorax 

 near the median line crossing the transverse suture. Pleurae green, 

 clothed with yellowish pile. Scutellum yellowish green ; the 

 apical spines yellow, tipped with black. Halteres green. Abdo- 

 men green, with a black median stripe ; the posterior half of the 

 terminal segment green. Venter Avholly green. Legs reddish ; 

 the anterior and middle tibi* markedly tipped with black, the 

 posterior obscurely so; all the tarsi tipped with black. Wings 

 hyaline: veins j^ellow ; third longitudinal simple; the discoidal 

 cell emits three valid veins. 



Long. corp. 5^ lin. ; long. al. 4 lin. 



9. Green. Head and occiput green. Front green, widening 

 anteriorly with two well-marked transverse black stripes, the 

 superior being the broader, extending from orbit to orbit just 

 beneath the ocellar triangle ; the lower extends irregularly trans- 

 verse across the whole front a short distance above the base of the 

 antennte. Antennie reddish brown, the third joint tipped with 

 black. 



Long. corp. 7 lin., long. al. 5 lin. 



Hab. — Kans^as (Guild); Cal. (Baron). 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Odontomyit extremis sp. n. 9 5 



9. Green- black. Head and occiput green. Front green; on 

 each side, midway between the ocellar triangle and the base of 

 the antennae, is a large round black spot. Antennae brownish ; 

 the terminal segments of the third joint black. Face green, prom- 

 inent, pubescent with 3'ellow. Thorax black, subaureous tomen- 

 tose, bordered laterally with green, extending to the posterior 

 angles. Scutellum green ; the apical spines 3'ellow. Halteres green. 

 Abdomen green, with a central black stripe widening posteriorly ; 

 at the incisures the black extends quite to the lateral borders. Legs 

 brownish yellow; tarsi blackish. Wings hyaline; veins yellow; 

 the third longitudinal simple ; the discal cell emits three veins. 



S- The only difference from the females is that the male:' 

 possess a black occiput. 



Long corp. 6 lin., long. al. 4^ lin. 



Hab. — Conn.; Cal. (Baron). 



Note. — Related to 0. cincta, but differing in the abdominal markings 

 quite strongly. 



Odont'myia srcuita Loevv. 9 Cent, x, 4. 



Greenish yellow; occiput except orbit, vertex, unequal band 

 of the front, base of antenna^, dorsum of thorax and abdomen 

 black; lateral spots in the median line of the abdomen almost 

 united, and venter wholly yellow. Legs luteous ; two submarginal 

 cells ; four posterior. 



Long, cot-p. b\ lin., long. al. 4|-4^ lin. 



Head pale 3'ellow. Face obtuse, immaculate. Occiput, except 

 the orbit, black. Superior third of the front Ijlack ; in posterior 

 margin two obsolete luteous dots ; in front the unequal black band 

 is seen, composed of two large spots running into the sides. 

 Antennae black ; base reddish brown. Dorsum of thorax, except 

 the humeri and posterior angles, black, aureous tomentose, 

 toward the borders thickly clothed. Scutellum 3'ellow ; base 

 black; apical teeth small, subapproximate, toward the apex black. 

 Pleurae wholly immaculate, greenish yellow, in life without doubt 

 green. Abdomen black ; second, third and fourth segments each 

 with a single yellow triangular spot; or greenish yellow, concave 

 anteriority, and the acute angle extending nearl}- to the middle of 

 the abdomen ; posterior and lateral margins of the fifth segment 

 yellow, 3'et the transverse smearing black and more pronounced ; 

 sixth segment yellow. Venter wholly yellowish green or green, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



immaculate. Legs luteous ; tarsi, from the apex of the first joint, 

 brownish black. "Wings pure hyaline ; veins strongly ochreous ; 

 third longitudinal with branch ; discal cell emits two veins. 



i/fl6._California (H. Edwards). 

 Odo''t''myia b'Tiotat* Loew. ^ Cent, vi, 22. 



Green. Dorsum of the thorax, except the lateral borders and 

 two disks, punctate; metanotum and abdominal stripes black; 

 only one submarginal cell, five posterior. 



Long. corp. 5i lin , long. al. 4^ lin. 



Vertical triangle black; base green; frontal triangle minute, 

 black. First two joints of the antenna; cylindrical, subeqnal, of 

 ferruginous red. Face totally green, not prominent, toward the 

 oral aperture strongly receding. Keel moderately convex and 

 obtuse. Proboscis pale ; palpi concolorous, labelli black. Dorsum 

 of thorax black ; two small spots and lateral borders green. 

 Pleurae green ; breast grayish black. Scutellum totally green ; 

 metanotum black. Abdomen green ; the stripe towards the base 

 of the first segment strongh' dilated, in the second and third 

 segments profoundl}^ emarginated, and the two points in the 

 angle of the fourth segment black. Venter wholly green. Legs 

 ferruginous red ; the first half of the femora and base of the 

 tibije yellow; the apex of the anterior femora, the apex of the 

 anterior tibiae and all the tarsi black, but the posterior metatarsus 

 except the apex and base of the anterior, ferruginous red. Wings 

 purely hyaline; veins strongly ochreous; third longitudinal with- 

 out branch ; the discal cell emits three equal veins. 



Hah. — Illinois (Le Baron). 



Odo'tomyia I'siopathalma Lnew. ^. Cent, vi, 23. 



Black, varied green, eyes strongh' pilose, second joint of the 

 antennje half as short as the first. Legs luteous. femora except 

 the apex black, one submarginal cell of the wings, five posterior. 



Long. Corp. 4^ lin., long. al. 3^ lin. 



Head black ; face concolorous. sliortly conical, two transverse 

 spots constituting narrowlj- interrupted bands, and two lesser at 

 the anterior margin of the eye pale j^ellow. E3-es clothed with 

 compact long hair. First two joints of the antenna; dark yellow, 

 toward the apex obscure, the second one-half, and tlie last longer 

 than the first ; the third joint is wanting in this specimen. Dor- 

 sum of thorax with rough sub-luteons black hair, posterior angle 

 3-ellowish green. Pleurae concolorous, whitish hair, two spots of 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [^1882. 



a yellowish green, the larger ones of a broken angnlar form, the 

 smaller oblong ovate. Scutellum black, narrowly bordered with 

 yellowish green. Abdomen black, the whole margin and spots 

 both a third part green, in the second segment a spot large and 

 triangular, not reaching to the anterior margin : the third mod- 

 erate and transverse, the fourth narrow. Venter wholly- green. 

 Legs luteous or luteo-ochreous, femora except the apex black. 

 Wings hyaline, veins thickly ochreous, third longitudinal without 

 a branch, the discal cell emits three equal veins. 

 Hah. — Xew York ; New Jersey. 



Note. —This species on account of the first joint of the aiitennte being 

 longer than the second strongly distinguishes between Stratiomyise and 

 Odontomyige, and as it were intermediate on account of the simple .straight 

 third longitudinal vein refers this genus to the Odoutomyia rather than 

 Stratiomyiae. 



Oiontomia n gerrima Loew. 9 Cent, x, 6. 



Black, bare, scutellum toothed, apex of femora and tibiae, and 

 base of tiljite and tarsi testaceous ; second abdominal segment, 

 third and fourth posterior margins near the border and all of the 

 fifth lutescent ; face protuberant, extraordinarily prominent, first 

 joint of the antennae longer than the second, veins of the wings 

 strongly' fuscous, four posterior cells and two submarginal. 



Long. eorp. 4 lin., long. al. 3^ lin. 



Black, shining, bare, whitish, short pubescent. Head concolor- 

 ous, longitudinal fossa of the front and both margins testaceous. 

 Face extraordinarily- prominent, protuberant, obtuse, lateral 

 margins of the mouth strongly dilated. Proboscis black, stock 

 drawn out, head long and very thick. Antenuje drawn out, black, 

 first joint once and a-half as long as the second. Scutellum wholly 

 black, teeth fusco-testaceous. Posterior margins of the second 

 abdominal segment, third and fourth toward the side of the abdo- 

 men of a lutescent color, thus three narrow bands are seen, broadly 

 interrupted ; the posterior margin of the fifth segment wholly 

 lutescent. Venter black, a broad disk unequal and darkly lutes- 

 cent. This abdominal picture in living specimens I suspect to be 

 wholly green. Legs black, apex of the femora, base and apex of 

 the tibite and first and last joints of the tarsi except the apex fusco- 

 luteo-testaceous. Wings hyaline, veins strongly brownish black, 

 costal and third longitudinal subfuscous toward the apex, third 

 longitudinal vein with erect branch, discoidal cell emits two veins. 



Middle States. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 83 



Odo^tomyia nigrirostris Loew. ^. Cont. vi, 19. 



Ulack and ^-ellow A'aried, scutellnm without teeth, two sub- 

 marginal cells, five posterior. 



Long. corp. 5f lin., long. al. 4f lin. 



Black and yellow varied, clothed with pale pubescence. Head 

 yellow ; lateral frontal stripes black, broad, abbreviated anteriorly, 

 posteriori 3' with a black spot cohering with the vertex ; a large black 

 spot on the face. Antennte black, first joint a little longer than the 

 second. Proboscis wholly black, palpi concolorous. Dorsum of 

 thorax black, margin of the posterior angles pale yellow. Pleune 

 pale yellow, black maculated ; breast black. Scutellura shortened, 

 pale yellow, toward the base black. Abdomen broad, subplanum, 

 black, from the angle of the first segment, a spot extends laterally 

 from the anterior to the posterior margins, narrow in the third 

 and fourth margins posteriorly and in the abdominal margin, all 

 pale yellow. Venter wholly pale. Legs black, apex of all the 

 femora, first half of anterior tibia? and base of anterior and poste- 

 rior tarsi dilute yellow or whitish. Wings pure hyaline, veins 

 strongly ochreous, third longitudinal with branch, thus is made 

 two marginal cells; discal cell emits three veins of which the one 

 preceding the last is much shorter. 

 Hah. — North Wisconsin (Kennicot). 



XoTE. -The number of posterior cells in distinguishing Odontomyia 

 causes note, which is greatly relied upon ; less is determined by making out 

 the number of submarginal cells, in those species where there is only one 

 submarginal cell, which does not happen rarely, as the third vein may be 

 with a branch ; or where two submarginal eel's are found, this branch 

 may be wanting. 



Odontomyia pilima-a Loew. ^ 9 Cint. vi, 27. 



Black, antenna? red, dorsum of thorax in both sexes aureous 

 tomentose. abdomen green, median stripe black, legs luteous, 

 anterior and posterior tibiie and metatarsus hairy beneath ; four 

 posterior cells, one submarginal. 



$. Thoracic pile shorter than in known species. 



? . Front near the ocelli luteous bipunctate. 



Long. Corp. 4-4/^ lin., long. al. 3-^^-3^ lin. 



$. Head black, face scattered with white hair, obtuse bicarinate, 

 below the antennae prominent, toward the oral aperture receding. 

 Antenni^ red, apex of third joint black. Proboscis thick, black. 

 Thorax wholly black ; dorsum more lutescent, thin in real male 

 species and clothed with short aureous tomentose ; pleursp white 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



pilose. Seutellura black, teeth and apical margin greenish. 

 Abdomen green, black median strijte, moderately dilated poste- 

 riorly. Legs wholly luteous ; anterior and posterior tibife and 

 metatarsus clothed beneath with long pallid pile. Wings hyaline, 

 veins strongly lutescent, third longitudinal with branch, discal 

 cell emits two veins. 



9. Similar to the male. Front anterior to ocelli luteous bi- 

 punctate. and on both sides ornamented with an aureous tomentose 

 spot. Above posterior to the orbit aureous tomentose, below 

 covered with white. Dorsum of thorax closely aureous tomentose, 

 pleurae white pilose. Black abdominal stripe in third and fourth 

 segments more dilated than in the male. 



Hab. — Illinois (L. Baron). 



Odontomyia varipes Laew. ^. Cent. vi. 21 



Green, dorsum of thorax except the posterior angles, triangu- 

 lar spot at the base of the scutellum, and except the large lateral 

 spots of tlie abdomen and border of the fifth segment black. 

 Legs biownish, first half of the femora and base of tibiae yellow, 

 apical half of tibia» and tarsi brownish black: two submarginal 

 cells, five posterior. ' 



Long. Corp. 5| lin., long, al, 3f lin. 



Related to Odontomyia megacephala^ but the head is smaller 

 and diverse other markings on tlie abdomen. Vertical triangle 

 black, yet the base green; frontal triangle minute black. First 

 two joints of the antennse c^dindrical, equal ; the first brownish 

 black ; the second ferruginous red ; the third joint in this de- 

 scribed specimen is wanting. Face green, superior margin black, 

 not prominent ; towards the oral aperture strongly receding, 

 obtuse carinate. Proboscis dilute ^yellow, palpi concolorous, 

 labelli black. Dorsum of thorax black, posterior angles green. 

 Scutellum green, black spot of the brise broadly triangular. 

 Pleurae green, a moderatel}^ dilute subfuscous spot. Abdomen 

 black, angle of the first segment, a large lateral spot in the second 

 and third, extending to the anterior and ]iosterior margins, sepa- 

 rated from the anterior margin b}- a black band, a lesser subrotund 

 spot in the fourth segment, and the posterior and lateral borders 

 of the fifth segment green. Tenter wholly green. Femora dilute 

 3'ellow, second half of anterior, last third of middle, and apex of 

 posterior ferruginous red ; tibia? ferruginous red; apical half of 

 anterior, apex of posterior, brownish black ; tarsi brownish black; 




1882.] NATfRAI- SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



first joint of postei'ior, except the apex, reddish, and base of the 

 lowest anterior, brown. Wings pure hyaline, valid veins obscurely 

 ochreous, third longitudinal with branch; the discal cell emits 

 three equal veins. 

 Ea,h. — Carolina. 



Odontomyia vertebrata t^av. 



S- Mouth deep, black, pale within ; hypostoma with an elevated 

 testaceous knob ; antennae deep black, terminal joint beneath 

 dusky, testaceous ; thorax blackish, with hardly perceptible hairs; 

 scutellum dull testaceous, black at base ; tip a little hairy ; spines 

 horizontal, white ; wings^ white ; poisers white, with a whitish 

 glaucous capitulum ; feet yellowish white ; abdomen subquadrate, 

 much depressed, white; tergum with a series of large black spots 

 almost connected together. 



Length $ rather more than three-tenths of an inch. 



Hah. — Xortliwest Territory'. 



Say, Complete Writ, i, 251 ; Long's Exped., App., 369. Wied. Auss. 

 Zw. ii, 73, 20. Bellardi, Saggio, etc., i, 38. 



Odontomyia Faron Walker. ^ 9 • 



$. Body black ; head as broad as the chest, clothed in front 

 with short whitish hairs, red about the feelers ; eyes reddish 

 bronze ; facets of the fore-part larger than those elsewhere ; mouth 

 black ; feelers black, red at the base ; chest and breast thickly 

 clothed with tawny hairs; scutcheon armed with two tawny teeth; 

 sides and under side of abdomen tawny, sometimes 3-ellow and 

 tinged with green ; legs tawny ; wings whitish ; wing-ribs tawny; 

 veins yellow ; poisers tawnj^ with apple-green knobs. 



9 . Head and chest bronzed ; head black about the base of the 

 feelers. 



Length of body 3 lin., long. al. fi lin. 



^a6.— Trenton Falls. 



Walker. Lit iii, 536. 



Odontomyia intermedia Wied. 9 • 



Flihler schwarz, erstes Ulied nur halb so lang als das dritte. 

 Untergesicht schwarz, fast silberweisz behaart. Stirn mitten rost- 

 gelblich, an beiden Seiten schwarz, mit zwei fast silber- 

 schimraernden Flucken ; am Scheitel erstreckt sich das Gelbe bis 

 zu den Augen. Riickenschild schwarz, sehr kurz kiesgelb behaart; 

 Brustseiten hingegen silberweisz behaart ; Rand und Darmen des 

 Schildchens gelblische. flinterleib kaum weiszlich behaart ; an 




8fi PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



fler Spitze der Abschiiitte 2-4 an jeden Seite ein linienartiger rost- 

 gelblischer Fleck oder eine breit unterbrochene Binde; der Hin- 

 terrand des fiinften Abschnittes iiberall lehmgelblicli und mit 

 dem Gelblicbea des Seitenrandes zusammenfliesend. Bauch 

 gelblich. Fliigel wasserklar ; Rippe und die zweite Ader bis zur 

 Spitze des Rippenfeldes lehmgelblich ; das Randmal und die 

 mittlere Zelle unigebenden Adevn rein braun ; Schwingen schon 

 griin. Beine lehmgelblich; Schenkel fast bis zur Spitze pech- 

 schwarz. In meiner Sammlung. 



Lange 3| Linien. Ans Xordamerika. 



"Wied. Auss. Zw. ii, 64, 5. 

 Odontomyia Virgo Wied. $ . 



Der europaischen Str. viriduJa auszert ahnlich. Fiihlerwurzel 

 rostffelb, das dritte Glied ist verloren gegangen. Kopf schwarz. 

 Untergesicht schneeweisz behaart. Riickenschild schwarz, mit 

 greiser Behaarung; Brustseiten schwarz, schneeweisz behaart; 

 Dornen des Schildchens lehmgelb. Hinterleib papageigriin, mit 

 breiter schwarzer, an der Spitze jedes Absclinittes wenig ver- 

 eno-erter, an der Wurzel des letzten Abschnittes abgebrochener 

 Strieme. Bauch griin, an der Spitze jedes Abschnittes ein braun- 

 licher nicht scharf begrantzter Fleck. Fliigel sehr wasserklar, mit 

 lehmgelb Adern ; Schwinger lehmgelb mit griinem Knopfe. 

 Beine iiberall lehmgelb. In meiner Sammlung. 



Lange 4 Linien. Yon Savannah. 



Weld. Auss. Zw. ii, 69, 13. 

 Odomomyia brevipennis Oliv. 



Odontomyia scutello subbidentato nigra, abdomine maculis 

 lateralibus tlavis acutis. 



EUe ressemble aux precedentes. Les antennas sont noires avee 

 les deux premiers articles jaunes. La tete et le corcelet sont 

 noiratres, converts d'un leger duvet d'nn gris un pen rousseatre, 



L'ecusson est noir, et arme de deux petites epines rapprochees, 

 a peine apparentes, jaunes. L 'abdomen est noiratre en dessus, 

 avec une suite de petites taches jaunes sur les cote's, triangulaires, 

 avee leur angle interne trfesaigu. Le dessous est d'unjaune un 

 pen livide. Les cuisses sont noirs, avec I'extrdmite jaune. Les 

 jambes et les tarses sont jaunes. Les ailes sont transparentes, avec 

 les nervures legerement jaunes; elles sont conrtes, et d^passent a 

 peine Tabdomen. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 8T 



Elle se troiive dans la Carolina, d'ou elle a ete apparti'e par M. 

 Bose. 



Encycl. Method, viii, 434, 13. 

 Odontomyia cincta Oliv. 



O, scutello bidentato. vicidis, thoracis dorso nigra, alxlomine 

 nigro, fasciis tribus interruptis, Havis. 



Elle est presqii'aussi grande que I'odontomyie t'ourchue. Les 

 antennes sont jaunatres. Le tete est verte ou jaunatre, avec trois 

 points noirs sur le vertex. Le dos du corcelet est noiral^re. Les 

 cote's et I'e'eusson sont verts ou jaunatres ; celui-ci est arme de 

 deux petites epines. L'abdomen est noir en dessus, avec trois 

 bandes interronipues et un pen amincies au milieu, dim jaune plus 

 ou moins vert. Le dessous du corps est jaune ou vert. Les pattes 

 sont jaunes. Les ailes sont transparentes, avec les nervures jaunes. 



Elle se trouve en Carolina ; Illinois. 



Encycl. Method, viii, 432, 3. Macquart, Dipt. Exot. i., 2, 189. 

 Odontomyia flavicornis Oliv. 



O. scutello bidentato, nigra, capite scutelloque flavis, abdomine 

 maculis lateralil)us argenteis. 



Ella a un pen plus de trois li'gnes de longueur. Les antennes 

 sont jaunes, avec I'extremite noire. La tete est jaune, avec les 

 yeux noirs. Le corcelat est noir, avec quelques raies formees par 

 un duvet argente. L'ecusson est grand, jaune, arme de deux 

 fortes epines de la meme couleur. L'abdomen est large, court, un 

 peu aplati,noir, avec quatre taches de chaquo cote, formees par un 

 duvet argente. Les pattes sont noires, avec les genoux et le 

 premier article des tarses blanchatres. Les ailes sont transpar- 

 entes, avec les nervures d'un jaunne-brun. Les balanciers sont 

 jaunes. 



Elle se trouve dans TAmerique septentrionale. 



Eucycl. Method, viii, 433, 9. Macquart, Hist. Nat. Dipt., i, 248, 4. 

 Odontomyia hieoroglyphica Oliv. 



O. scutello mutico viridi, abdomine nigra, maculis lateralibus 

 viridibus. 



Elle est de la grandeur de I'odontomyie hydrole'on. Les an- 

 tennes sont noires. La tete est verte, marquee d'une tache noire, 

 assez grande, a la partie anterieure ; de deux autres un i)eu au 

 dessus, sinueuses, et d'une triangulaire, anterieurement dentee, 

 sur le vertex. Le corcelet est noiratre avec le cotes et Tecusson 

 verts ; eelui-ci est mutique ou arme' de deux epines a peine appar- 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



entes. L'abdonien est noir, avec trois petites taches verdatres 

 sur les cotes, et une sur Tanus. Le dessous du corps est A-ert ou 

 d'une vert-jaune. Les ciiisses sont noires,avec rextremite jaiine. 

 Les jambes et les tarses sont jaimes, taches de noir. Les ailes ont 

 une legere teinte d'lm brun-i'ousseati-e, surtout vers le bord 

 exterieur. 



Carolina and Dist. Columbia. 



Encycl. Method, viii, 484, 11. 



Odontomyia interrupta Oliv. 



O. scutello bidentato, nigra, abdomine fasciis tribusinterruptis, 

 anoque flavis. 



Elle est de la grandeur de I'odontomyic tigrine. Les antennas 

 sont noires. La tete est noire avec une petite tache oblongue, 

 iaune sur le vertex. Le corcelet est noir, convert d'un leger 

 duvet court, argente. L-ecusson est de la meme couleur, et est 

 arme de deux petites epines jaunes. L'abdomen est noir, avec 

 trois petites taches sur les cotes, d'une egale epaisseui-, et une sur 

 I'anus, d'un jaune-verdatre. Les pattes sont jaunes, avec les 

 cuisses presqu'entierement noires. En dessous la poitrine est 

 noire, et l'abdomen est verdatre. Les ailes sont transparentes. 

 avec les nervures d'un brun-rousseatre. 



Carolina. 



Encyd, Method, viii, 433, 8. 



Odontomyia obscura oiiv. 



0. scutello flavo niutico, nigra, capite flavo punctato. 



Elle est de la grandeur de i'odontomyie tigrine. Les antennes 

 sont noires, avec la base d'un jaune-obscur. La tete est noire, 

 avec quelques points et le bord posterieur jaunes. Le corcelet est 

 noir, convert d'un leger duvet d'un gris-rousseatre. L'ecusson est 

 jaune, sans epines, ou voit seulment quelques cils qui tiennent lieu 

 d'epines. La poitrine est noire avec un pen de jaune sur les cotes. 

 L'abdonien est noir, avec quelques taches triangulaires pen appar- 

 entes sur les cotes, formees par un leger duvet argente. Le 

 dessous est noir, avec tache verte a la base. Les cuisses sont 

 noires, avec les genoux jaunes. Les jambes et les tarses sont 

 jaunes. Les ailes sont transparentes, avec les nervures leg^rement 

 jaunes. 



Carolina. 



Encycl. Method, viii. 433, 7. Macquart, Dipt. Exot., i, 2, 189. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 89 



March T, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



The death of Joseph Pancoast, M. D., was announced. 



The Relaiion of Heat to the Sexes of Flowers. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan observed that the best fields for biological research were 

 to be found amongst objects with which we have already a more 

 or less familiar acquaintance. One fact observed will prove a 

 stepping-stone to higher knowledge. His first new discoveries in 

 Acer dasycarpum, the common silver raipleof our streets, w. re 

 communicated to the Academy and published in the Proceedings 

 for 18fi8, and there had been interesting observations made on 

 this species in the line of those discoveries on many occasions 

 since that time. In that paper it was noted that the tree was not 

 polygamous, as stated in the text-books, but strictly monoecious 

 or dioecious. There were no hermai)hrodite flowers, but each tree 

 was either male or female, though occasionally the separate sexes 

 were found on the same tree. The male flowers have no trace of a 

 gy noecium , but the female flowers have well-formed anthers, but never 

 have pollen, or even perfect themselves by lengthening filaments, 

 as in the perfect male flower. Notwithstanding the perfect foi'm 

 of the antlier, the stamens in tiie fem de are abortive. But the 

 ciiief physiological fact of importance noted in the paper of 18^)8, 

 was that a tree which for ye 'rs would produce nothing but female 

 flowers would sometimes change the sex, and bear only male 

 flowers; while no instince could be found of a male tree eventu- 

 ally producing female-bearing branches. During the fourteen 

 3'ears since this discovery was recorded, Mr. Meehan said he had 

 found frequent instances of change from female to male as at first 

 observed, but not one instance of change from male to female. 

 There could be no doubt of the order in which the s;'xuvl ch mge 

 occurred. While the maple was growing vigorously it followed 

 the rule with all trees and made no attempt to flower. With 

 some check to the vegetative force, the reproductive power 

 asserted itself, and flowering began ; this is the second stige. 

 With a greater check to the vegetative force, onl}' male flowers 

 resulte'l. This was the third stage. Since that time he had 

 shown to the Academy that when a maple-tree pissed from the 

 vegetative to the reproductive condition, and bore at once male 

 flowers only, it was a leap down from the first to the tliird stage, 

 missing tlie second or female — for he had found that though the 

 amount of vital power exerted in the production of seeds, and the 

 immense loss of leaves which the production of seed implied (as 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



all know who are familiar with the silver maple after bearing a 

 heavy crop of seeds), the female trees of the same age and under 

 the same circumstances, were usuallv as large as the males which 

 had no such strain on their nutritive powers. 



He desired the members to pause here a few minutes, while he 

 called their attention to another matter which he had recenth- 

 brought to the notice of the Academy-. It was in relation to the 

 influence of heat on flowei-buds. About the time of the fall of 

 the leaf, there is little to distinguish a flower-bud from a leaf-bud. 

 But the flower-bud continues to grow at a comparatively low 

 temperature at which the leaf-bud remains stationary. Even when 

 the thermometer was several degrees below the freezing point, 

 flower-buds would increase in size, though naturally much more 

 rapidly when above this line. In the peach, the growth of the 

 flower-bud was ver}^ rapid between 32° and 40° Fahr., until by 

 early spring they will have reached often as much as three-fourths 

 larger in size. Indeed, a peach-bud will often have its flowers fulh"^ 

 expanded before the leaf-bud has scarcely begun to grow. We learn 

 from this lesson that it takes less heat to develop a flower-bud than a 

 leaf-bud. In the light of these observations, he had been watch- 

 ing during the past winter the behavior of the buds on the 

 silver maple. These advanced gradually until, by Februar}^ 28, 

 they commenced to expand — the leaf-buds remaining as the^^ 

 were at the fall of the leaf. They had been expanding continu- 

 allj' as the da^'s were warmer or colder, up to the present date 

 (March 7), but the expanding blossoms have been wholly, male 

 flowers. Onl3' to-day, as noted in the specimens exhibited, were the 

 purple tips of the pistils visible through the parting bud-scales. It 

 was obvious that here we had reached another important stage in 

 the life historv of the maple-tree. First, it requires less heat to 

 induce growth in a maple flower-bud than a leaf-bud ; secondh', it 

 requii-es less heat to induce growth in the male flower than in the 

 female. 



Comparing the male with the female trees, Mr. Meehan noted 

 differences in their habits of growth. Taking a twig of the last 

 season's growth, in a flowering condition, one or two blossoms 

 might appear alongside of the leaf-bud, in trees of either sex. So far 

 we could find no difference. But in the female tree tlu^ central or 

 leaf-bud, when it pushed into growth in the spring, made a shoot 

 of several or man}- inches in length according to the vigor of the 

 tree or parent branch. In the male tree, on the contrarv, the 

 central growth was not more than perhaps a quarter of an inch, 

 forming a mere tuft of leaves on the top of what was a head of 

 male flowers. In fact these branches were reduced to mere spurs, 

 and weak spurs at that. He had measured these little branches 

 or spurs which had been bearing male flowers for ten successive 

 years, which were not more than from three to five inches in 

 length, and not thicker than wheat straws. It was from these 

 spurs that the great mass of opened flowers appeared. The male 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



flowers on the shoots of last year did not advance as did the 

 flowers on the spurs. It is very important to note this fact. 

 These are only now opening, and are cotemporaneous with the 

 openinjj^ of the female flowers which, like them, are sparsely 

 arranged around the axillary bud of the past season. The 

 immense amount of pollen from the early flowers, forming the 

 great bulk of all the pollen produced by the tree, is scattered 

 before the female flowers oj^en, and is absolutely useless for any 

 purpose of fertilization, or useless for any purpose of individual 

 benefit to tlie tree or to the race, so far as we can see. These 

 later-opening flowers, formed on the wood of last year, are 

 evidently the chief reliance, if not the only reliance, of the female 

 flower for its reproductive energy. 



Just here an objection may be raised. If it be heat alone 

 which advances the male flowers on the spurs, why does it not 

 advance them on the wood of last year? If it take less heat to 

 bring forward a male flower than a female flower, why is not this 

 power exhibited when the separate flowers happen to be on 

 tsranches both apparently alike in vital conditions ? Here we 

 may return to the point we diverged from. We have seen that 

 there are successive stages from a high vegetative, but unproduc- 

 tive condition, to one of fertility ; and again one lower than this, 

 lower in com]mrison with vegetative power, in which the purely 

 male or sterile condition is reached. In other words, a highly 

 vital condition is more closely allied with those attributes which 

 characterize the female sex than with those, characteristic of the 

 mule, and we may therefore reasonably look for some influence in 

 the female direction on the male flower where these conditions 

 exist. Therefore male flowers on a shoot characterized by a highly 

 vitalized condition, would be likely to resist influences to which 

 they would be otherwise subjected. In short a male flower on a 

 strong branch ought not to yield as readily to the excitement of 

 heat as one growing on a Weak branch. At any rate the fact that 

 the whole of the we;ik si)urs of the maple-tree produce nothing 

 but male flowers, and that these male flowers expand at a lower 

 tempeniture than the females do, is conclusive as to the law, 

 whatever answer the objection may receive. 



This law, thus demonstrated, will be of great practical value to 

 culturists. So far as the single point of the advancement of the 

 flowers by a low temperature is concerned, the peach-grower will 

 be interested in keeping the temperature cool so that there shall 

 be no advance of the flower until the temperature is high enough 

 to bring forth the leaf-buds as well. Now we can go further 

 and understand why some amentaceous plants so often produce 

 no fruit or imperfect seeds. It is well known that isolated trees 

 of birch, though producing abundance of male and female flowers, 

 ver}' often have not a perfect seed. We may now see how the 

 catkins may be brought forward by a low temperature not suffi- 

 cient to excite the female flowers, and thus lead tht.m to mature 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



and shed their pollen before the weather is warm enough to bring 

 forward the female blossom to receive the necessary pollination. 

 In seasons where the weather is eool till the regular springtime 

 comes, or in climates where there is little ver}^ exciting warmth 

 till the regular growing time arrives, there is not likelv to be so 

 great a period between the opening of the male and the female 

 flowers. That this is the case with the common European hazel or 

 filbert as grown in this country, an examination to-day clearly 

 indicates. The catkins have attained their full length, and the 

 anthers are ready to shed their pollen with another day's sun, 

 but there is no sign yet of the little purple stigmas bursting 

 through the scales of the buds which form the female flowers. 

 Should the anthers disperse their pollen to-morrow, as tiiey doubt- 

 less will if the temperature rises to 45^, there certainly can be no 

 fertilization, and consequently no hazel-nuts from the trees in 

 question next year. It was a well-known fact that the European 

 hazel-nut often failed to bear nuts in this part of Pennsylvania, 

 and we have clearl}^ the explanation in the facts now developed. 

 In Europe there were seldom such failures, the climate being prob- 

 ably favorable, more favorable to the simultaneous production 

 of male and female flowers. 



Mr. Meehan then briefly referred to the influence which these 

 new facts must have on questions of dichogamy. There need not 

 necessarily be any constant rule in the production of proterandrous 

 or proterogynous flowers. We might expect to find proterandry 

 prevailing to a greater extent in plants growing where there was 

 a more constant succession of warm and cool days, than in the 

 same species growing where the climate is not what is called 

 changeable, that is to say, where the temperature was regularly 

 low until the regular spring season had arrived, in which case 

 there would not be much difference in time between the advance 

 of stamens or pistils. 



In conclusion he said, if he might be allowed to generalize from 

 this experience with the maple-tree, the following principles seem 

 proven :— 



Male flowers do not appear on female maple-trees till some of 

 its vital power has become exhausted. 



Branch-buds bearing female flowers, have vital power sufficient 

 to develop into branches. 



Branch-buds bearing male flowers, have not vital power enough 

 to develop into branches, but remain as spurs, which ever aft^r 

 produce male flowers onl3% 



Buds producing male flowers only, are more excited by heat than 

 females^ and expand at a low temperature under which the females 

 remain quiescent. 



A feW warm days, succeeded by cooler ones, will therefore make 

 a corresponding difference in time between the opening of the 

 male and the female flowers, and possibly in the proportionate 

 advancement bf the stamens and pistils in hermaphrodite flowers. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



Professor Heilprin remarked that in the south of France there 

 were often warm days in winter, much as we have here, but he 

 believed there were no failures in the hazel-nut there. 



Mr. Meehan said that when he used the word Europe, he had 

 England in his mind, as his own personal experience was chiefly 

 drawn from there. In that countr3% he believed, the catkins were 

 never brought on by warm days in winter, so as to mature before 

 there was warmth enough to dcA^elop the female flowers. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, inquired whether the Amer- 

 ican species (Cor^^«/s Americana) exhibited the same character- 

 istics as the English species ? 



Mr. Meehan replied that he believed it would be found to do so, 

 in some degree. 



On Balanoglossus, etc. — Prof. Leidy stated that in a recent trip 

 to Atlantic Cit^^ he had observed the singular worm, Balanoglossus 

 aurantiacus. It occurs in moderate number along the shore of a 

 pond between the beach and the lighthouse. In the same position 

 he had collected Solen ensis^ specimens of which were presented 

 this evening. As this occurred in considerable number, he had 

 prooui'ed a suflfloient quantity to try it as an article of food, and 

 had found it to make excellent soup. In the vicinity he had 

 picked up a number of specimens of Actinia rapiformis, which 

 had been recently thrown upon the beach. On a former occasion, 

 at Atlantic City, he had observed another Actinia, the Bicidium 

 parasiticum, which is parasitic on the large jelly-fish, Gijanea 

 arctica, so frequently thrown on shore during the summer. 



Scolithus in Gravel. — rProf. Leidy remarked, that since making 

 the communication on some rock specimens, he had been led to 

 suppose that if the quartzite pebbles of our gi'avels were largely 

 derived from the Potsdam sandstone, the characteristic fossil, 

 Scolithus, would be found as an occasional associate. With this 

 view he had recently taken an opportunity of examining a gravel 

 bank on the University ground, and had there picked up the three 

 specimens exhibited, with well-marked Scolithus, which were 

 broken from as many boulders. He also directed attention to 

 specimens presented by Mr. John Ford. These consist of pebbles 

 of a chalky white porous siliceous rook, with impressions of 

 brachipod shells, which were picked up from the gravel of the 

 reservoir at Fairmount Park. 



March 14. 

 The President, Dr. Leiejy, in the chair. 

 Twenty -three persons present. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF l1882. 



The death of Geo. B. Dixon and that of James Lanman Harmer, 

 members, were announced. 



On the Occurrence of Ammonites in Deposits of Tertiary Age. — 

 Professor Angelo Hkii.prin stated that he desired to place on 

 record the discovery of the remains of ammonites in deposits of 

 tertiary age. Hitherto the members of this group of cephalopod 

 moUusks were considered to have become extinct with the creta- 

 ceous ' mesozoic) period, no form having thus far been found 

 either in Europe or America, or in any other country whose 

 geology had been worked. up, that could with positiveness be 

 stated to have transgressed the limits of this period. The speci- 

 men particularly referred to (now in the possession of the Academy) 

 w^as found imbedded in a rock fnigment belonging to the so-called 

 Tejon group of Fort Tejon, California, a series of rock deposits 

 considered by the late Mr. Gabb and Prof. Wliitney, of the Cali- 

 fornia Surve}', to represent the ui)permost member of the cretaceous 

 deposits of that State. Mr. Heilprin stated that having recently 

 had occasion to carefully stud}- the fossil organisms contained in 

 the Tejon rocks, and the types of the collection (deposited in the 

 Academy Museum) which form the basis of Gabb's important 

 work on the palaeontology of California, he had ai'rived at the 

 conclusion that these so-called cretaceous deposits were unques- 

 tionabl}' tertiary, a view which had likewise been maintained for 

 some time b}- the late Mr. Conrad, but which, in the absence of 

 positive evidence, appears to have been subsequently abandoned. 

 Mr. Heilprin further remarked that, with the exception of one 

 solitary fragment of an ammonite, there was, to his knowledge, 

 not a single distinctively cretaceous type of organism to be found 

 in all the rock fragments, but, on the contrary, several genera, 

 distinctively tertiary, and not known anywhere to have appeared 

 before that period, were characteristic of these fragments. 

 Furthermore, these last contained a few species undistinguishable 

 from forms found in the tertiary deposits of the eastern United 

 States. In answer to certain remarks piade by Dr. Horn, as to 

 the stratigraphical position occupied by the rocks whence the 

 specimens were obtained. Prof. Heilprin stated that he was aware 

 that the deposits in question had been described as lying conform- 

 ably with the cretaceous, but that stratigraphical positi(m by itself 

 was no criterion for determining the geological age of a horizon, 

 the only true test being the facies of the contained organic remains. 

 The discovery of ammonitic remains in tertiary strata need not 

 especially surprise the geologist, since recently Prof. Waagen, of 

 Vienna, had announced their discovery in the carboniferous of 

 India, two degrees lower in the geological scale than the deposits 

 they had up to that time been supposed to characterize. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 95 



March 21. 

 Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



On the Gondylarthra. — -Professor CoPE made some observations 

 on the characters of the newly-discovered group of Perissodactyle 

 ungulates, which he had called the Gondylarthra. He defined it 

 as follows, comparing it with the typical Perissodactyla, which he 

 referred to a suborder, under the name Diplarthra: 



Astragalus with one uniformly convex distal articular face ; 

 humerus with epicondylar foramen. Gondylarthra. 



Astragalus with two truncate or concave distal articular facets 

 for the cuboid and navicular bones ; no epicondylar foramen of 

 humerus. Diplarthra. 



The Gondylarthra have as yet been onl^^ found in lowest horizon 

 of tiie Eocene period, the Puerco and Wasatch, and only on the 

 North American Continent. Appropriately to this position in 

 time, its structure indicates that it is the most primitive type of 

 the order of the Perissodactyla. A number of genera and species 

 belong to it, and these fall into two families, which are defined as 

 below. They conform to the definitions of the order, in possess- 

 ing an alternating arrangement of the carpal bones, and a third 

 trochanter of the femur. The approximation to the IJyracoidea 

 is greater than that of any group of the PeriHSodactyla. That 

 order agrees witli the Gondylarthra in the simple articular 

 extremity of the astragalus, which is, however, less convex ; but 

 it has a very peculiar articulation with the anterior face of the 

 distal extremity of the fibula, seen in no other group of ungulates. 

 In the manus the lunar bone is very peculiar, not being divided 

 below into two fiicets as in other ungulates, and articulating with 

 the carpals of the trapezoides series (the intercalare) as well as 

 with the unciform. In these points the Gondylarthra agree with 

 other Perissodactyla. In Hyrax there is also no epicondylar 

 foramen. The two families are defined as follows : 



Dentition bunodont ; toes 5-5 ; premolar teeth diflfei-ent from 

 the molars above and below. Phenacodontidae. 



Dentition lophodont, with crescents and deep valleys ; pre- 

 molars partly like molars below ; toes ? Meniscotheriidee. 



The bunodont dentition and five toes on all the feet, give the 

 Phenacodontidie the lowest place in the suborder and order, as the 

 most generalized type known. The MeniHCotheriidse. have a quite 

 specialized dentition, and until I learned its condylarthrous 

 character, I was at a loss to account for the presence of such per- 

 fection in so old a type. The number of the toes is yet unknown, 

 but I suspect from the large size of those I have seen, that they 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



are less numerous than in the Pheiiacodontidse. It appears to 

 have had no descendants, and is a good ilhistration of Dr. 

 Kowalewsky 's views as to the persistonceof the '• adaptive " over the 

 " non-adaptive " types of artieidation. Kowalewsky observed that 

 the type of Ungulata wliich have the carpo.nietac-arpal,and tarso- 

 metatarsal articulations, simple and not alternating, have become 

 extinct. In those which persisted, the metapodials articulate 

 with two bones of the carpal or tarsal series. The same rule has 

 generally applied in the Ungulates to the distal astragalar articu- 

 lation. The Diplarthra2Lw\ Amhlypoda,vi\t\\ the doable articu- 

 lation, have left descendants, while the Condylarthra, wxth the 

 single articulation, have disappeared without leaving a trace. The 

 Probo.scidea, which have the same simple distal articulation, still 

 remain, however, to show an exception to this generalization. 

 The Condylarthra are distributed as follows : 



Phekacodoktid^. 



Puerco. Wasatch. 



Anacodon 1 



Phenarodus, 2 8 



Protogon'a 1 



Pantolambda, 1 



Catiithlcpvs, 3 



Anisnncfms, • . . . 1 



Haplocoiius, 3 



Periptychus, 1 



Meniscotheriid^. 

 Meniscotherium, 3 



15 9 



The genera of Phenacodontidse are distinguished as follows : 



I. Fourth siiperior and inferior premolars with an internal cusp. 



Last su)ierior premolars with two external cusps ; inferior molars with 

 well -developed cusps. Phemicodtis. 



Inferior molars wilh tlat grinding faces ; no cusjis, Anacodon. 



Last superior premolar with but one external cusp ; inferior molars 

 with F«. Protogonia. 



InCerior premolars consisting of an anterior F and a posterior longitu- 

 dinal crest. Pantolavihda. 

 II. Fourth sujterior premolar with a high internal cingulum concentric 

 with the single external cusp. 

 a. Superior molars witli intermediate tubercles ; fourth premolars with 

 internal cusps. 

 Posterior inner tubercles of the superior molars not cut off; several 

 superior premolars with internal cingulum. Catathlceus. 

 aa. Superior molars wi li intermediate tubercles forming branches of a V 

 with the anterior iinier; posterior inner distinct and cut ofl' by a 

 groove; inferior premolars without inner cusps; firsl inferior tiue 

 mo'ar tubercular. 

 Third sup»'ri<>r jirf molar with elevated internal crest. Anisonchus. 

 Third superior premolar a cone without inner cest. Huplocoiius. 

 aaa. Superior molars unknown; inferior true molars with anterior lobe; 

 the first with a transverse heel instead of opposite tubercles. 

 Anterior external lobo of inferior molars forming a cutting edge. 



Periptyehui. 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Tlie only genus of the above, in whioh the structure of the feet 



is well known, is Phenacodus. It is partially known in Catathlseus. 



The only genus of Meniscotheriidae is distinguished as follows : 



Inferior premolars consisting of two Va. Meniscotherium. 



VaiHation in the Ne>it Formic of the Fury^oiv Spider, Epeira 

 strix. — Rev. Dr. H. C. McCuOK remarked that he had observed 

 that some of the orbweaving spiders had a marked tendency to var}^ 

 the forms of their nests. The spinning work of s|)iders miy 

 be classified as (I), the snare, spun for the capture of pre}^ ; (2 , 

 the enswathment, by which insects are disarmed and prepared for 

 food; (3\the gossamer, used for purposes of aqueous or aerial 

 locomotion ; (4), the cocoon, spun for the-propngation and protec- 

 tion of the species ; and 5), the 7}est, which is a domicile more or 

 less elaborate and permanent, within or under which the aranead 

 dwflls for protection against enemies and weather changes. As a 

 rule, the great groups of Orbweavers differ from each other and 

 agree within themselves in the characteristic form of nest. The 

 lorm prevailing in each family is substantially the same ; each 

 species appears to adhere quite steadily to one characteristic form ; 

 but there are some marked variations in the habit of certain 

 species, the most decided of which have been observed in the case 

 of Epeira strix. Some examples of this were given. 



1. The ordinary nest of Strix when domiciled in the open field 

 or wood, is a rolled leaf A single leaf is taken, the edge pulled 

 up, drawn under and fastened by adhesive threads into a rude 

 cylinder, within which the spider hides during the day-time. ' A 

 thread connection with the foundation lines of the snare is main- 

 tained ; but rarel}^ with the centre of the orb by a taut trap- 

 line as is the habit of the Insular spider, Epeira insularis, 



2. A second form of nest varies from the rolled leaf nest, in 

 having the edges of two adjacent leaves bent towards each other 

 and lashed together on the exterior at the juncture by silken cords, 

 and on the interior by adhesive tissue-web. An oval opening is 

 left at the united points of the leaves, through which the connect- 

 ing line passes to the snare. The spider domiciles within the 

 leafy cavern thus formed. 



3. Again, the spider avails herself of small holes in wood or 

 stone, openings in fences, the interspace between curled bark on 

 the trunk of old trees, or some like cavity, which she appropriates 

 as a nesting-place. A slight lining will generally be found upon 

 the concave surface. Dr, McCook had noticed that in such cases 

 the snare is sometimes diverted from its normal shape in order to 

 give a covenient approach thereto from the den. One such 

 example was found spun l)etween a side of the Peace Fountain 

 in Fairmount Park (Philadelphia) and the stone wall adjoining. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE AC.U)EMY OF [1882. 



In order to pitch her tent within a hole in the rock, the spider 

 diverted one of the radii from the plane of the orb and extended 

 it backward to the hole. The spirals which passed over this 

 radius thus made an elbow or angle, which was indeed nearly a 

 right angle, and gave the orb an odd, broken appearance. The 

 radius, of course, served as the bridge-line by which Strix passed 

 from her den to her snare, 



4. Another variation was due to an accident in the environment 

 of the web. A half-grown Strix had woven a snare in the hollow 

 of a decayed tree (at New Lisbon, Ohio), within two feet of the 

 ground. A colony of the Pennsylvania carpenter ant ( Campo- 

 notus PennsylvanicuH) had quarters in the tree, a squad of black 

 workers were bus}' excavating their wooden galleries. These 

 dumped their chippings from openings just above the spider's orb, 

 whose viscid spirals retained goodly quantities of the brown saw- 

 dust. In course of time a ball of chippings as big as a walnut 

 had accumulated, or, perhaps had been purposely massed bj^ the 

 spider. However that may be, the ball was utilized as a nest; its 

 centre had been pierced, a spherical cavity formed by silk-lining 

 the interior, which was entered by a circular door bound around 

 the edge by spinning-work. This quaint domicile was pendant 

 from one of the strong upper foundation lines, and herein Strix 

 rested, while the emmet carpenters worked away above her, con- 

 tinually dropped chips upon the roof of her den, and the orb 

 beneath, until one side of the snare was quite covered with them. 

 In this case the position of the nest, as well as its form was excep- 

 tional, as the nest site of Strix is well nigh invariably beyond the 

 limits of the web, sometimes, indeed, several feet. In these points 

 the spider was evidently led to an intelligent variation of her 

 nest-building by circumstances. 



5. Another variation, or rather a series of variations, was noted 

 upon the side of Brush Mountain at Bellwood, Pennsylvania. 

 Several 3'oung pine-trees had been out away and tossed from the 

 mountain to the banks of the Juniata River below. The foliage 

 had withered and fallen from the boughs, whose branches stretched 

 out dry and bare, and among them a colony of young furrow 

 spiders had pitched their tents and spread their snares. One 

 specimen happened to spin her web near the axil of several goodly 

 sized branches, which were formed into a natural shelter by the 

 inverted position of the bough. The spider had recognized this 

 vantage, and made her nest at the point of juncture, or rather took 

 shelter there, for there was very little artificial nesting beyond a 

 faint tissue spread over the bark at the point where she sat. 



A second specimen had lodged at a point near the tip of a small 

 branch whose delicate dry twigs gave no sutticient shelter, and 

 besides, were directed upward. Accordingly a silken tube, funnel- 

 shaped, was spun between the twigs, wnthin which young Strix 

 nested. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



A third spider lodged in a similar site, had made a silken sack 

 for a tent, whose month had apparentl}' originally opened directly 

 toward the snare. Bnt a saltigrade spider had fastened a ])arasitic 

 tubular nest upon one side of this sack, and accordingly the mouth 

 was found closed and the door siiifted to the opposite side, as 

 though to avoid interference with a troublesome neighbor. 



A fourth individual had woven a simple silken cover or screen, 

 behind which siie lodged. A fifth had pitched her tent upon a 

 stra}' leaf beneath which a similar cover, a small rectangular piece 

 of silk canvas (suggestive of the military bivouac or "dog 

 tent ") was stretched by lines attached to the sides and corners, 

 and fastened to the leaf surfaces and surroundings. Between 

 this sheet and the leaf the spider was ensconced having the usual 

 bridge-line connection with the orb. 



6. Two of the above colony had established nests in tufts of a 

 parasitic moss fastened upon the dead limbs. One of these was 

 very pretty and ingenious. The moss grew in a bunch about the 

 size of a hickory-nut ; this was pierced at the top, and the filaments 

 pushed aside sufficiently to allow an interior cavity large enf)ugh 

 to house a spider. An oval door or opening was formed near the 

 top b}' bending and binding back the fil)res of the plant. A secure 

 and tasteful retreat was thus obtained at the only reall}' available 

 spot in the vicinity of the snare, 



t. When the furrow spider weaves her orb upon the exposed 

 surfaces of human habitations, as the cornices of porches, out. 

 houses, etc., her nest takes a form quite different from any of the 

 above. A tube of stifl[' silken fibre is spun against the surface to 

 which it is lashed at all sides. Tliis cylinder is about an inch 

 long and half-an-inch thick, and at the end toward the orb has a 

 circular opening about a quarter of an inch in diameter. The 

 stiff texture of the nest appears to be necessary to make the walls 

 self-supporting, inasmuch as there are no supports like the twigs 

 and leaves found at hand in aiboreal sites. Moreover, the open 

 position of the domicile exposes the spider ver^^ freely to the 

 assaults of the mud-daubers who frequent such localities, to birds 

 and other enemies, so that a canvas is needed of touyfher texture 

 than that requiied in sheltered sites. It may be remarked that in 

 old buildings, which present cracks and crannies convenient for 

 nesting, woven nests of tiiis sort will rarely be found. 



It is thus seen that while there is a general regard to protection 

 of the spider's person, there is a modification over a quite wide 

 degree of variation in the form of the protective nest. Further, 

 that this modification appears to l)e regulated more or less, by the 

 accidental envii-onment of the domicile, and in such wise as to 

 show no small degree of intelligence in adapting the ordinary' 

 spinning habit to various ciroumstances,and to economizing labor 

 and material. 




100 proceedings of the academy of [1882. 



March 28. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Fort3--one persons present. 



The death of R. S. Kenderdine, M. D., and that of Solomon W. 

 Roberts, members, were announced. 



Mr. Isaac C. Martindale offered the following, which was adopted 

 and ordered to be printed : — 



This Academy having learned with deep regret of the death of 

 its worthy member and curator, Robert S. Kenderdine, M. D., 

 and desiring to place upon record the regret we feel in thus having 

 to part with his valued services as an officer and his agreeable 

 company as a member, a regret increased bj'^ our recollection of 

 the genialit}- and open-heartedness which always characterized his 

 association with us, therefore 



Resolved^ That realizing the loss which has been sustained, we 

 tender to his family our sincere sympathy in this hour of affliction, 



Beaolved, That a copy of these resolutions, signed b}' the Presi- 

 dent and Recording Secretary, be forwarded to his family and 

 that the}' be entered in full upon the minutes and published in 

 the Proceedings. 



Art. XIV, Chap. V, of the Bj'-Laws, was amended b}'^ striking 

 out all of the article after the word " meetings " in the third line, 

 and inserting " and with like approval may change the same." 



Geo. Taylor Robinson, M. D., Eugene M. Aaron, and John 

 Edgar were elected members. 



An Avierican Locality for Helvite. — Prof. H. Carvtll Lewis 

 remarked that among some minerals which he had recently 

 obtained from the mica mine near Amelia Court House, Virginia, 

 a locality already well-known for its microlite and other rare 

 mineials, was a yellow crystalline substance, which upon exam- 

 ination had proved to be Helvite. The mineral occurs in crystals 

 and friable crystalline masses imbedded in bluish white orthoclase, 

 and is generall}- associated with pale red topazolite. While no 

 crystals were found sufficiently perfect to allow of measurement, 

 the absence of any action upon polarized light proved their 

 isometric character. 



The mineral has a hardness of about 6, a specific gravity of 

 4.306, a sulphur-yellow color, a somewhat resinous lustre, and is 

 partially translucent. It fuses at about 4 with intumescence to a 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



brown glass, gives no water in the closed tube, and with the fluxes 

 gives the reactions for manganese. Fused on charcoal with soda, 

 it gives a hepar. It is soluble in hydrochloric acid, evolving 

 sulphuretted hydrogen and leaving a residue of gelatinous silica. 

 Its composition, as kindly ascertained by Mr. Reuben Haines, 

 is as follows : 



SiO, 



Bed 



MnO 



Fe,03 



AIO3 



Cab 



KO 



Na,0 



S 



Gangue 



23.10 



11.47 



45.38 



2.05 



2.68 



.64 



.39 



.92 



4.50 



9.22 



100.35 



In the analj'sis the glucina and manganese were first separated 

 from alumina and iron by long boiling with ammonium chloride, 

 and were then separated from each other by repeated precipitation 

 by ammonia, the manganese being thrown down by sodium phos- 

 phate and weighed as pyrophosphate. 



The mineral was separated from the associated impurities by- 

 placing upon a filter the total silica, which had been separated by 

 evaporation with acid in the usual manner, and washing it seven 

 or eight times with a hot concentrated solution of sodium carbonate. 

 B}^ this means all the soluble silica of the mineral was separated 

 from any particles of quartz, orthoclase, or other insoluble sili- 

 cates. 



Regarding a part of the manganese as combined with sulphur, 

 and deducting a proportionate amount of ox3'gen from the 

 analysis, it will stand : 



or, without gangue, 



98.10 



98.16 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



This result differs considerjibly from the analyses of Helvite 

 heretofore publislied, and does not lead to the formula usually 

 given to Helvite. It is desirable that further investigation should 

 be made when more material is discovered. 



Helvite has not previously been found in America. 



April 4. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty^nine pei'sons present. 



On Sagitta, etc. — Prof. Leidy stated, that in a recent trip to 

 Atlantic City, N. J., he for the first time met with the singular 

 worm Sagitla. It occurred in large number in the same poud in 

 which he had previously noticed Balanoglossus. Whether it was 

 there at the time of his former visit he was unable to say, as 

 the animal is as transparent as the water in which it lives, and 

 ma3' easily escape observation. His attention was accidentally^ 

 directed to its discovery. Along the edge of the pond there were 

 numerous linear white bodies, flaccid and motionless, which he at 

 first took for fragments of a bleached alga. From the uniformity 

 of their size he stooped to examine them more closely, when lie 

 noticed others in the water, more transparent, lying on the sand 

 and occasionally moving suddenly and so actively as to send a 

 little spray above the surface. On transferring some of these 

 bodies to a vial he detected their nature. Subsequently the water 

 was seen to swarm with the little creatures. They are exceed- 

 ingly sensitive and quickly die after removal. In life they are 

 perfectly transparent and colorless, and move actively at intervals 

 with a sort of spasmodic jerk, bending the tail downwards and 

 darting forward. Afcer death they become flaccid, dull and white, 

 and hence the appearance of the multitude of dead ones on shore. 



The Sagitta is interesting as being one of those peculiar ani- 

 mals which have puzzled naturalists as to its exact relative posi- 

 tion. It is now usually regarded as the representative of an order 

 of worms with the name of Cheetognatha. 



A species, Sagitta elegans, has been described by Prof Yerrill, 

 as occurring at Wood's Holl, Vine3\ard Sound, and Gay Head, 

 on the New England Coast, and he refers to a second undeter- 

 mined species occurring in Vineyard Sound. 



The Sagitta of Atlantic City appears to diflfer from the former, 

 and also from all other described species found elsewhere, and 

 may be readily dis-tinguished from them by its greater number of 

 mandibular hooks. It may be characterized as follows : 



Sagitta falcidens. Animal transparent, coloiless ; body compressed, 

 elongated fusifoim, with two pairs of lateral hemielliptical fins, separated 

 by intervals from each other and the bioad obcordate caudal fin, which is 

 truncated posteriorly. Head obcordate, about as broad as it is long. Pre- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



oral series of spines, 6 or 7 in each, minute ; postoral series 18 in each, 

 successively decreasing. Mandibular hooks, from 11 to 14 in each series, 

 usually 12, besides an immature one, scythe-shaped, yellowish brown in 

 color. Length, about three- fourths of an inch ; width, 1 J^ to 2 mm. 

 Head 1 mm. ; caudal fin 1.5 to 1.75 mm. wide. Mandibular hooks 0.75 

 mm. long. 



At the same time, as previously, numerous mounds of the 

 Balanoglossus aurantiaeus were observed. There were also noticed 

 in the same pond, many projecting tubes of sand, which were 

 found to contain Clymena torquata. Further, several specimens 

 of Glycera americana were collected. On the shore of the pond 

 in one place Donax fossor appeared to have its residence ; and 

 among 8olen ensis, a single living Solecurtus gibbus was found. 



April 11. 



Mr. S. Fisher Corlies in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of new species of Terrestrial 

 Mollusoa of Cuba," by Rafael Arango, was presented for publi- 

 cation. 



April 18. 

 Dr. W. S. W. RuscHENBERGER in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



Orthite from Amelia G. H.^ Va. — Prof. George A. Konig com- 

 municated the discovery of orthite among the minerals occurring 

 at the mica mine of Amelia Court House, Va. The speaker has 

 seen only two fragmentary crystals, a large one, nearly four inches 

 long by one inch wide and one-fourth of an inch thick. Both ends 

 were broken. It piesents the combination of a flat prism with 

 the brachypinakoid. In the position of epidote the prism will 

 be equal to a series of brachydomes. There is a pronounced 

 cleavage parallel to the macro- and brachypinakoids and to the 

 basal plane. The crystal is enveloped by a thin reddish brown 

 crust of soft altered material, while the interior is pitch black and 

 hard. Fracture uneven. A plate was cut parallel to the basal 

 plane which only became green transluceut at a thickness of y^^jy^ 

 of an inch. It was found that a number of opaque small spots 

 were scattered through the leek-green mass on a few spots showing 

 strong polarization, which are probably hydromuscovite. 



This section behaves like a uniaxial substance; it is dark with 

 crossed prisms, and light when their position is parallel. The 

 l)lane of the optical axes is therefore parallel to the basal plane. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Specific gravity at 17 C^ = 3,368. A thin splinter boils up in 

 the strong tlame of a blow-pipe, and fuses to a dark blebbv slag. 

 With borax in 0. Fl. a munganese bead. Decomposed by con- 

 centrated hydrochloiic and also by moderately dilute sulphuric 

 acid. Its composition is 



SiO, = 32.90 



Al.Os = 17.80 



Ye.O, = 1.20 



Ceb, = 8.00 



LaA) 



jy^.^r= 14.20 



FeO = 10.04 



CaO = 11.32 



MnO = 1.00 



H,0 = 3.20 



99.66 



Yttrium and glucinilm are not present ; but a trace of uranium 

 was determined. 



April 25. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



The death of M. W. Dlckeson, M. D., a member, was announced. 



The death of Chas. R. Darwin, a correspondent of the Academy. 



having been announced, the following weie unanimously adopted: 



Whereas, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 has heard of the death of Charles R. Darwin, F. R. S., of Down, 

 Kent, England, be it 



Resolved, That the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia hereby expresses its sense of the great services which have 

 been rendered to science and scientific thought by Mr. Darwin, 

 and of the great loss which it in common with the entire scien- 

 tific world has sustained in his death. 



Resolved, That the Academy desires to express its sympathy 

 with the family of Mr. Darwin in their bereavement. 



Resolved^ That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the family 

 of Mr. Darwin. 



Dr. Chas. R. Schaffcr was elected a Curator to till the vacancy 

 caused by the death of Dr. Robt. S. Kenderdine. 



Dr. Thos. Moore w.-^s elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed ; — 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 105 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF TERRESTEIAL MOLLUSCA OF CUBA. 

 KY RAFAEL ARANGO. 



ChondTopoma deceptor Anuigo. 



Testa umbilk-ata, oblongo-turrita, teiiuiscnla, costit* loiigitudi- 

 nalibus lirisque elevatis confertis clecussata, pallide aurantiaca, 

 fasciis interruptis rubris fere, sa-pius obsoletis ornata ; spira 

 regularitei' attenuata, sublate truncata ; anfraetus superstites 5 

 convex!, ultimus circa iimbilicum angustum distincte spiraliter 

 striatus ; apertura verticalis, angulato-ovalis ; peritrema duplex, 

 internum nitidum, externum late patens, concentrice striatum ad 

 anfractum contiguum angustatum, umbilicum lamina lata fornicata 

 fere tegens. Operculum tiavescens. 



Longitudo testae truncata' 22-25 mill., diam. 1(1 mill., cum 

 peritremata 15 mill.; apertura 1 mill, longa et 5 mill. lata. 



Simile quoad umbilicum et testse formam Chondr. vanalicidnio, 

 sed bene distinctum al) hoc et echinulato atque sinuoso sculptura 

 non asperata. 



Habitat. — '• Mogote de la lagua " prope La Palma in Provincia 

 Pinar del Rio in agris D. Rafael Azcui. 



Chondropoma Hamlini Amngo. 



Testa umbilicata. oblongo-turrita, tenuis, niteus, liris spiralibus 

 et costulis longitu.dinalibus ivque distantibus echinatim decussata, 

 rubella, fasciis interruptis rubro-fusciis (in ultimo anfr. 7) ornata; 

 spira regulariter attenuata, late truncata ; anfr. supei'stites 4, 

 ultimus circa umbilicum angustum spiraliter substriatum ; apertura 

 verticalis, angulato-ovalis; peritrema simplex, nitidum. heve, 

 expansum, sed ante anfractum contiguum angustatum eumque 

 non attingens. Operculum rubellum. 



Longitudo testie truncat* 15 mill., diam. II mill., cum peritre- 

 mate 19 mill. ; apertura 4 mill, louga. 3 mill. lata. 



Habitat. — " Cerro de Cabras, vega ile los Franceces dicta " 

 prope oppitum Pinar del Rio, 



Cylindrella triplioata Ai-ango. 



Testa subrimata, cylindraceo-turrita, solidula, remote filoso- 

 striata, straminea ; spira elongata, medio paulo veutrosior, apice 

 plerumque truncata; anfr. 15-1 G planiusculi, ultimus breviter 



8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



solutus, non carinatus ; apertura subcircularis ; peritrema album, 

 undique asqualiter reflexum ; sutura profunda, non crenulata. 



Longitudo testae integrse 14 mill., diam. 3 mill. 



Columna interna fortis, lamellis 3 validis gequalibus parallelis 

 munita. 



Differt ab omnibus Cylindrellis cubanis forma eolumnte iutenise. 

 Forma testae similis est G. Hratae Jim. et mixta Wr. 



Habitat. — *' La Jagua '' prope La Palma in Provincia Pinar del 

 Rio in agris D. Rafael Azcui. 



Cjlindrella atropurpnrea Arango. 



Testa rimata. subcylindrica, tenuiscula saepe breviter truucata, 

 ax-cuatim costulato-striata, atropurpurea, nitens ; sutura impressa, 

 non crenulata, anfr. testae integrae 13 vix convexiusculi, subae- 

 quales, ultiraus breviter solutus, non carinatus; apertura subcircu- 

 laris, intus fusca ; peritrema continuum album, tenue, breviter 

 expansum. 



Longitudo testte Integra^ 19 mill.; diam. 4 mill. 



Columna interna simplicissima. 



Comparata cum G. j)rvinosa Mor. ditfert magnitudine minori, 

 colore, costulis confertioribus, peritremate magis expanso et prae- 

 cipue columna interna simplici. 



Habitat. — •■ La Jagua '' prope La Palma in Provincia Pinar del 

 Rio in agris D. Rafael Azcui. 



Cyliadrella colorata Arango. 



Testa vix rimata. fusifonni-cylindracea, tenuis, oblique obsolete 

 costulata, fuscula, basi fascia tilari rufo-brunnea, in parte inferiori 

 prope suturam in omnibus anfractubus conspicua ornata ; spira 

 elongata.sivpe breviter truucata, sutura subcrenulata ; anfr. 13-14 

 planiusciili, ultimus fortius costulatus, solutus ; apertura subovalis, 

 plica coluniollari coarctata ; i)eritrema album, expansum, non 

 flexuosuni. 



Longitudo testie Integra' 24 mill., diam. 4 mill. 



Habitat. — '"La Chorrera "' in Provincia Pinar del Rio. 



Cyliodrella infortunata Arango. 



Testa non rimata.snbfusiformi-turrita. tenuis, diaphana.chordato- 

 costata, albida : spira breviter truucata, sutura profunda non 

 crenulata; anfr. superstites 12, planiusculi, ultimus basi obsolete 

 cariuata ; apertina et peritrema ? (unicum specimen fractum est). 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lOt 



Longitude testje sine anfractu ultimo imperfectae 10 mill.,diam. 

 3 mill. 



Columua interna 3-plicata, plica superiori ampliori. 

 Habitat, — " La Chorrera " in Provincia Pinar del Rio. 



Cylindrella prima Arango. 



Testa rimata, cjlindraceo-turrita, solidula, subconfertim obso- 

 lete costata, albida ; spira supra medium sensim attenuata (in 

 specimine unico) truncata ; sutura crenulata ; anfraetus superstites 

 13, planiusculi, ultimus basi carinatus, antice breviter solutus : 

 apertura obliqua, subcircularis ; peritrema breviter expansum 

 antice ob carinam subsinuatum. 



Longitudo testre truncatae 17^ mill., diam. 4 mill. 



Columna interna plicis 2 descendentibus ornata. 



Habitat. — C uba. 



Cylindrella oonfusa Arango. 



Testa rimata, cjdindraceo-turrita, solida, confertim striata, 

 albida ; spira siipra medium sensim attenuata, breviter truncata ; 

 ■sutura non crenulata ; anfraetus supei'stites 13, planiusculi, ultimus 

 basi carinatus, antice breviter solutus ; apertura subcircularis ; 

 peritrema breviter expansum. 



Longitude testie truncatae 16 mill., diam. 4 mill. 



Columna interna lamellis 2 validis, siiperiori fortiori, lente 

 descendentibus munita. 



Habitat. — Cuba. 



Cylindrella difficultosa Arango. 



Testa rimata, cylindraceo-turrita, solidula, nitens, obsolete 

 •costulata, pallido-straminea ; spira breviter truncata, sutura non 

 crenulata; anfr. superstites 10, planiusculi, ultimus basi subcari- 

 natus, non protractus ; apertura OA'alis ; peritrema breviter et in 

 margine sinistro minus expansum. 



Longitude testae truncata? 1 1 mill., diam. 2| mill. 



Columna interna plicis 2 fortioribus ornata. 



Differt a Gyl. concreta costuUs, ultimo anfr. non soluto, columna 

 internse forma. 



Habitat. — Cuba. 



Cylind'ella c?nsanguinea Arango. 



Piffert a precedenti testa opaca, ultimo anfractu basi carinato 

 et columna interna laminis 2 debilibus descendentibus munita. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Numerus anfractimm et longituclo testae aequalis sunt illis 

 speciei precedentis. 

 Habitat . — Cuba. 



Cylindrella orassilabris Amugo. 



Testa rimata, subcylindrica, solidula, oblique remote lirata, 

 fuscescens ; spira breviter truncata ; sutura subcrenulata ; anfr. 

 superstites 11, planiusculi, ultimus obsolete carinatus, breviter 

 solutus ; peritrema album, reflexum, prtecipue in margine dextro. 



Longitudo testae truncatse 12^ mill., diam. 3 mill. 



Columna interna inferne lamina una debili munito. 



Habitat. — Cuba. 



Cylindrella oonferta Aningo. 



Testa rimata, subcylindrica, solidula, subconfertim striata, 

 albida ; spira breviter truncata ; sutura impressa, non crenulata ; 

 anfr. superstites 10 planiusculi, ultimus obsolete carinatus, bre- 

 viter solutus ; apertura subcircularis ; peritrema reflexiusculum. 



Longitudo testae truncate 10 mill., diam. 2^ mill. 



Columna interna simplex. 



Habitat. — Cuba. 



Cylindrella imparsta Arango. 



Testa non rimata, fusiformi-cylindracea, solidula, nitens, sub- 

 confertim obsolete striata, albida; spira regulariter attenuata. 

 Integra; sutura profunda, non crenulata; anfr. IV planiusculi, 

 ultimus subangulatus, breviter solutus ; apertura subcircularis : 

 peritrema reflexiusculum. 



Longitudo testa; 16 mill., diam. 2^ mill. 



Columna interna lamellis 2 tenuibus circumvoluta. 



Habitat. — Cuba. 

 Cylindrella propinqua (Tundl. 



Ti'stc subrimata, cylindraceo-turrita, solidula, subla^vigata, 

 albida ; spira plerumque truncata ; sutura subcrenulata ; anfr. 

 superstites 11-12 planiusculi, ultimus basi non carinatus, antice 

 striatus, breviter solutus, apertura subcircularis ; peritrema 

 reflexiusculum in margine dextro oh plicam interiorem plerumque 

 subsinuatum. 



Columna interna 3 plicata, plica superior! ampliori. 



Propinqua Cyl. crisfallina testa forma et sculptura. sed columna 

 interiori omnino divcrsa. 



Habitat. — Vinales in eodem loco cum Cyt. capillacea. 




1882] natural sciences op philadelphia. 109 



May 2. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



The death of Edw. Desor, a correspondent, was announced. 



On Some Entozoa of Birds. — Prof. Leidy directed attention to 

 «ome specimens presented b^^ Joseph Willcox, recently collected 

 by him in Florida. One of the specimens is the head of a Snake- 

 bird Plotus anhinija, with a worm in sight, lying upon the brain ; 

 while several other detached worms of the same kind lay at the 

 bottom of the vial. The worm in its singular habitation was 

 discovered by Prof. Wyman, in Florida, in 18G1 and 1867, an 

 account of which is given in the Proceedings of the Boston 

 Society of Natural History, volume 12, 1868. Prof. Wyman had 

 kindly presented Prof. Leidy with a specimen of the head of the 

 Snake-bird, with the worms lying on the brain. This he had valued 

 as a memento of his friend, but it had, unfortunately, been lost in 

 the fire at Swarthmore College, last autumn. Prof. Wjnuan states 

 that the parasites were found coiled on the back of the cerebellum 

 between the arachnoid and pia mater. The number varied from 

 two to six or eight, or even more. \\\ nineteen birds they were 

 detected in seventeen. Mr. Wilcox found the parasite in four out 

 of six birds examined. In the present specimen of a head, a single 

 worm is enclosed between the two laminte of the dura mater over 

 the position of the interval of the cerebrum and cerebellum. As 

 the parasite appears not to have been named, it was suggested 

 that the name of its discoverer should be associated with it under 

 the name Filaria Wymani. 



The accompan3Mng four vials contain numbers of worms obtained 

 from the stomachs of the Snake-bird, the Cormorant, Graculus 

 dilophus^ the White Pelican, Felecanvs tracliyrhyiichus and the 

 Brown Pelican. P. fuscus. All prove to be of the same species, 

 the Ascaris spiculigero. Specimens of these were also formerly 

 obtained b}' Samuel Ashmead, in Florida, from the White Pelican, 

 (Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. 1858, 112). The same, likewise, have been 

 submitted for examination by Dr. Elliott Coues, who procured 

 them from the White Pelican, on the Red River of the North. 

 See Birds of the North West, 1874, 587. 



On a CoproUle (nid a Pebble resembling an Indian Hammer. — 

 Prof. Leidy further exhibited a specimen which ho had picked up 

 from a pile of the irregular phosphatic nodules brought from 

 Ashley River, South Carolina, for the manufacture of a fertilizer. 

 The nodule, of several pounds weight, is a flattened oval black 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



mass, which he supposed to be the coprolite of a zeuglodont or 

 cetacean. 



He also exhibited a quartzite pebble, from a gravel bank in the 

 University ground, West Philadelphia. It has a near resemblance 

 to the stone hammers, with a groove around the middle, found in 

 the ancient copper mines of Lake Superior. Notwithstanding 

 this resemblance it is evidently a water-rolled pebble, the groove 

 resulting from action on a softer stratum of the quartzite. 



Historical Notes on the Arbor Vitse. — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 noted in detail the reasons given by various authors for the name 

 Arbor Vitse in connection with Thuja occidentalis — reasons- 

 unsatisfactor}- even to the authors who advanced them. He 

 referred to the statement of Ray in his " Historia Plantanim " that 

 the tree was first introduced from Canada to France and named 

 Arbre de Vie, by King Francis the First. Francis died in 1547. 

 The seeds from which these plants were raised could scarce! v have 

 been obtained in an}' other way than through Jacques Cartier's 

 expedition, say in 1534, and we may, therefore, conclude that Thuja 

 occidentalis was among the first, ])erhaps the first North Ameri- 

 can plant to become known in Europe. Parkman, in his " Pioneers 

 of France,'' graphically describes the sufferings of Cartier's band 

 durino- the Avinter of their encampment near the junction of the River 

 Lairet with the St. Charles. Twenty-five died of scurvy and the rest 

 were sick but two. A friendly Indian told him of an evergreen 

 which they called " Annedda,'' a decoction of which was sovereign 

 against the disease. In six dajs the sufferers had drunk a tree as 

 large as a French oak, Quercus ilex ?, " the distemper relaxed its 

 hold and health and hope began to revisit the hopeless company," 

 (p. 195). This Annedda seems to have been identified with the 

 White Spruce, Abies alba, and is, as I am informed by Dr. W. R. 

 Gerard, the same as the Mohawk " Onnita," and the Onondaga 

 " Onnetta." According to Rafinesque, the spruce beer of the 

 Indians was made of the young tops and young leaves of this tree 

 boiled together with maple sugar, and was one of their famous 

 remedies for scurvy. Rafinesque also says that a decoction of the 

 leaves of the Arbor Yit:v was an Indian remedy for scurvy and 

 rheumatism ; besides the leaves with bear's grease being used 

 externally. Rafinesque, however, believes it was the White Spruce 

 which saved the lives of Cartier's band, and if the " Annedda" of 

 the Indians is really the White Spruce, the evidence througli the 

 statement made so soon after Cartier's expedition that the health- 

 tyivino- ])lant was the " Annedda,'' is strong. But spruce beer 

 could not have been made in the winter season — the leaves only 

 were used. There is no evidence that the White Spruce was 

 known in Europe till towards the end of the 18th century. It is but 

 natural that whatever the tree might have been, it was a veritable 

 tree of life — an Arbre de Vie, to the voyagers. They would 

 certainly make every effort to take with them to their native land 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



SO valuable a tree. But we have no reason to believe that they 

 attempted to introduce the White Spruce. There is, as we have 

 seen, good reason to believe that Cartier took the Thuja occi- 

 (lentalis to Europe, and it is on record that his royal pati'on, a 

 few years afterward, distributed the tree as the Arbor Vitae, and, 

 notwithstanding the seemingly positive evidence that the tree was 

 the White Spruce, Mr. Meehan thouglit the Thuja had some 

 ground for disputing the claim. At any rate, whatever may have 

 been the real tree, he could not help suspecting that the name 

 Arbor Vitse had some relation to this touching episode iu the 

 history of the Cartier expedition. 



May 9. 

 The President, Dr. Leid}-, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-seven persons present. 



A paper, entitled " The Muscles of the Limbs of the Rac- 

 coon (Froeyon lotory^ by Harrison Allen, M. D., was presented 

 for publication. 



The death of Chas. M. Wheatley, a member, was announced. 



The death of Mr. Wm. S. Vaux having been announced. Dr. 

 Ruschenberger read the following resume of his services as an 

 officer and member, and offered the appended resolutions, which 

 were adopted : — 



I sincerely regret to announce that Mr. William S, Vaux, the 

 senior Vice-President of the Academ}-, died at his residence in 

 the city, ALay 5, 1882, very near the close of the seventy -first year 

 of his age. He was born May 19, 1811. 



Mr. Vaux was elected a member of the Academy, March, 

 1834, and during more than forty-eight years served the Society 

 effectually and generously. He was an Auditor tliirtj^ years, from 

 December, 1856; a Curator forty -three years and four months, 

 from December, 1838; a member of the Publication Committee, 

 of which he was treasurer more than forty -one j'ears, from Decem- 

 ber, 1840, and a Vice-President twenty years and four months, 

 from December, 1860, excepting the year 1875. 



His annual re-election to these important offices during all this 

 time, implies that he discharged all his official duties satisfactorily 

 to the Society. 



Durino; the construction of the hall, at the corner of Broad and 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Sanson! Streets, in which the Society' held its first meeting, Feb- 

 ruar}' 18, 1840, he was an active member of the Building Com- 

 mittee. He served in the same capacity when the building was 

 extended in 184T,and in December, 1851, when it was determined 

 to raise and improve the previously enlarged hall, a work which 

 was completed December, 1855, he was elected a member of the 

 Building Committee, and discharged all his duties efficiently. 



In December, 1865, he was appointed a member of the Com- 

 mittee of Forty to solicit subscriptions for the erection of the 

 hall now occupied by the Society, and in January, 1867, he was 

 elected a member of the Board of Trustees of the Building Fund, 

 and by it Treasurer of the Fund, and a member of the Building 

 Committee, positions which he held when he died. 



In all these building enterprises he was earnestly interested, 

 gave liberally to all of them himself, and by his invitation and 

 example influenced others to give. To the present building fund 

 he contributed seven thousand dollars, the largest sum given by 

 any individual. 



Besides his gifts to the Building and other Funds, he con- 

 tributed liberally to the museum, especially to tlie departments of 

 mineralogy and ethnology, in which he was particularly interested, 

 and also to the library. 



This brief outline of his long and useful services and bounty 

 to the Societ}' is suUicient to indicate that the Academy has sus- 

 tained a heavy loss b}' the death of Mr. Vaux. Asa token of the 

 Society's estimation of his worth, I submit the following resolu- 

 tions : 



Besolved^ That the members of the Academy' of Natural 

 Sciences, of Philadelphia, deeph* regret the death of the senior 

 Yice-President, William S. Taux, who was an experienced officer, 

 a prudent adviser, and a steadfast and beneficent friend of the 

 Society. 



That in his death students of the natural sciences have lost a 

 benevolent patron who contributed liberally to the means and 

 facilities of study in possession of the institution. 



That, as a message of condolence, a cop^' of these resolutions, 

 attested by the President and Recording Secretary, be trans- 

 mitted to his familv. 




1882.] natural sciences of prciladelphla. 113 



May 1(*). 



Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight ])ersons present. 



hifluence of Heat on the separafe Sexes of Flowers. — Referring- 

 to his former observations, in wliich it was noted that less heat was 

 required to advance flowers tlian leaves, and still less for male 

 than for female flowers. Mr. Meehan called attention to a commu- 

 nication in an English scientific periodical, showing that the same 

 facts may exist in the English climate as in our own. It appears 

 that this season, according to the correspondent of Hardwicke's 

 Science Gossip, the male flowers of the hazel-nut, Cori/lus Avel- 

 lana, had been brought forward and perfected, before an}' signs of 

 the female flowers appeared. 



Liquid Exudations in Akebia and Mahonia. — Mr. Wm. M. 

 Canby called attention to the exudation of moisture from the 

 tips of the leaflets in Akebia qiiinata, a plant twining over a trellis 

 near his porch dripped moisture enough to make the floor look as 

 if sprinkled. An examination of the leaflets b}' Prof Rothrock 

 disclosed an arrangement of the tissue at the apex of each leaflet, 

 evidentl}' adapted to such an exudation. Mr. Meehan had been 

 led by Mr. Canb3''s observations to watch closel}- a plant growing- 

 over a trellis on his house, confirming Mr. Canbv's experience. 

 The liquid globules on each leaflet were of the size of ordinary 

 pin-heads. Their appearance was not constant, nor did there 

 appear any regular period for the emission of the fluid. It was 

 as likely to appear when the atmosphere was dry as when moist, 

 or at midday as at evenings. The close relationship of Lardiza- 

 halaceae to which Akelna belonged, to Berl^eridacese^ led him to 

 examine Mahonia aquifoUa^ flowering at the same time, and he 

 found in many flowers just before expansion a small globule at 

 the apex of the pistil, and in the same bud globules pressing 

 through the divisions of the corolla. These would collect as they 

 flowed out, and globules as large as peas, and of a (juicksilvery 

 hue, were not uufrequently found among the mass of flowers 

 forming the densely fasciculated head. The fluid was of a viscid 

 character. Only a few flowers exhil)ited the exudation at each 

 examination, and he was led to believe that the flow in eajch flower 

 ■was soon over. In TJuiJa there was also this sudden ajjpearanco 

 of a small globule at the open mouth of the naked ovule, and 

 which seemed to disapi)ear very soon after its formation. In a 

 large number of flowers examined ouly a few with globules at the 

 apex were found at each examination. The liipiid iu this case 

 did not disappear by evaporation, but seemed to be absorbed by 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



the nucleus. Sachs suggests a use for the exudation in coniferae. 

 The pollen is brought to the globule by the winds, and, as the 

 moisture sinks within the vesicle, the pollen grain is carried to 

 the nucleus, and fertilization is etfected by actual contact. It 

 would be extremely difficult for the pollen to affect the nucleus in 

 Thuja, and some other coniferje, as in ordinary flowers, in the 

 absence of this liquid exudation. 



Individual Variation in Species. — Mr. Meehan remarked on the 

 prevailing tendency to look on striking variations in species as the 

 result of hybridization. To his mind there were few species that 

 did not exhibit a wide range of individual variation in some par- 

 ticulars, if we had good opportunities to look for them. He 

 exhibited a series of cones taken from diflferent trees of Pinus 

 rigida, all gathered in Atlantic County, New Jersey, and pointed 

 out how they each varied. Some double in length of their width, 

 others conoid with a flattish base, others perfectly globular Ijeing 

 rounded at both ends. Some had very narrow scales, and some 

 half as broad as long, and again, some reflexed to a wonderful 

 extent in drying, while some with the broad scales would only 

 open to a ver}- slight degree. Some trees would have cones several 

 inches in length and width, while others had cones barely an inch 

 long, and j^et with perfect seeds. The cones were in a regularly 

 graded order, the typical F. rigida at one end, at the other the 

 cone would scarcely be distingiiished from P. serotina. The 

 intermediates then taken away from the central one left it to 

 appear as a " hybrid " between the two. 



Mr. Meehan said there was evidently a law of nature providing 

 for individual variation. Whether this law of individual varia- 

 tion is distinct from that law of A-ariation which resulted in the 

 evolution of distinct species, might well be a question. It was at 

 least well to recognize the two classes of variation for practical 

 purposes. 



Prof. Heilprin, Rev. Dr. McCook and Mr. Redfield discussed 

 points suggested by Mr. Meehan 's communication. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



THE MUSCLES OF THE LIMBS OF THE KACCOON iPKOCYON LOTORl. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



The genus Procyon is known to be one of the most ancient as 

 well as one of tlie most generalized of the carnivora. The study 

 of such a form when made in comparison with the more recent 

 and more specialized genera, presents many features of interest. 

 The following account of the muscles of the limbs has been 

 undertaken with a view of ascertaining more especially what 

 ditferences exist between these muscles' and those of Felis 

 domes^tcus/ and of man. Occasionally references to Nasua fusca 

 were also made. Many variations in the human subject were 

 found to correspond to the normal arrangement in Procyon^ 

 Since the subjects of nerve and muscle are intimately associated, 

 not only anatomically but physiologically, it is stated from which 

 nerve trunk each muscle derived its supply. 



The material for dissection consisted of two adult females, 

 obtained through the courtesy of Prof. Alexander Agassiz, 

 of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, and of Mr. 

 Arthur E. Brown, Superintendent of the Zoological Garden, 

 Philadelphia. 



The Muscles of the Superior Extremity. 



(a) Extrinsic Set. 



The Cephalo-humeral Muscle is a broad, flat, fleshy muscle 

 arising from the occiput at its crest for a distance of eight 

 lines, and from the ligaraentum nuchas for one inch and a quarter, 

 that is to say, for a distance equal to one-half the length of the 

 dorsum of the neck. The muscle passes obliquelj^ downward over 

 the front of the shoulder, and is narrowed gradually to be inserted 

 by fleshy fibres into the linear ridge on the anterior surface of the 

 humerus. It blends with the tendon of the Pectoralis Secundus 

 — and indeed may be said to be inserted by fleshy fibres xipon the 

 lower part of the fibrous portion of this muscle. A tendinous 

 inscription passes througli the muscle opposite the head of the 

 humerus. Connected with the under surface of this inscription 



'When the domestic cat is referred to in tlie text the word "Felis" is 

 used. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



is a stout fascia, which passes o^^er the head of the humerus and 

 is lost on the acromion and the metacromion. This fascia em- 

 braces the lower third of the Levator Anguli Scapuhe and appears 

 slightly- at the lateral aspect of the Cephalo-humeral muscle. 



The rudimentary clavicle is in close relation with this muscle. 

 The under surface of the bone is occupied b}' a stout membrane 

 'which passes downward and forward to the axilla, where it is lost 

 on the fascia covering the Subscapularis muscle. This mem- 

 brane seems to support the Supraspinatus muscle, and separates 

 the nerves of the arm from those of the region of the Scapula. 



The Trapezius. — Tlje upper division arises from the occiput at 

 the median third of the superior curved line, and from the liga- 

 mentum nucha' at its lower half. It is inserted upon the border 

 of the spine of the scapula for its anterior three-fourths, and is 

 continuous b}' an aponeurosis with the lower division over the 

 remaining fourth. The lower division arises from the last cervical 

 and the nine upper dorsal spinous processes, and is inserted 

 directly- upon the middle two fourths of the scapular spine, at the 

 lower border, and indirectlj' (by reason of a union with the 

 Infraspinatus aponeurosis) upon the remaining half of the spine. 

 It is supplied by branches of the third and the fourth dorsal nerves. 



Tlie Levator Glaviculae arises from the occiput beneath the 

 origin of the Splenius, passes downward along the side of the 

 neck to be inserted upon the under surface of the tendinous 

 inscription of the Cephalo-humeral muscle for its entire length, 

 as well as upon the clavicle for its entire length. Its nerve-supply 

 is by branches of tlie first trunk of the brachial plexus. 



The Levator Anguli Scapulae arises from the anterior half of 

 the corresponding side of the body of the axis. It passes down 

 the side of the neck to be inserted on the acromion, where its 

 fibres are continuous with those of the Trapezius. It is supplied 

 by branches from the first trunk of the brachial plexus. 



The muscles usually called Trapezius and Levator Clavicula", 

 in Froci/on form parts of a single muscle, each of which bears 

 to the whole a relation somewhat analogous to that which the 

 different parts of the Pectoralis muscle bear to one another. As 

 in the Pectoralis, they all iiitlnence the movement of the humerus, 

 and like it many of the fibres are not inserted directly into the 

 humerus, but indirectly through the advent of nu'ml)ranous, 

 fibrous extensions. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



But in addition to this tlie Levator ScapnlsB and at least one 

 part of the Trapezius, are inserted into the spine of the scapula, 

 while the Levator Anguli Scapulte, so called, is inserted into the 

 acromion, so that the group is even less specialized than is the 

 Pectoralis group, inasmuch as it is inserted into two bones of the 

 anterior extremity-, the scai)ula and the humerus. The Levator 

 Anguli Scapulffi becomes superficial between the Cephalo-humeral 

 and the scapular fibres of the Trapezius, while the Levator 

 Clavicula? lies deep-seated beneath the Cephalo-humeral, and 

 while being inserted at the tendinous inscription of the latter 

 is in close relation to a thin fascial expansion that lies directly 

 over the shoulder-joint. The Levator Anguli Scapulae and the 

 Cephalo-humeral muscles in their turn terminate in part upon an 

 aponeurosis which passes over the Deltoid muscle and is lost on 

 the Infraspinatus, the Teres Major and the Triceps muscles, and 

 with which the epitrochlear slip of the Latissimus Dorsi is in 

 intimate association. 



This single great muscle, therefore, can draw the scapula and the 

 humerus forward ; through its traction on the clavicle make tense 

 the subscapular fascia ; through the fibres of the Levator Anguli 

 Seapuhe make tense the sheath of the muscles of the extensor 

 surface of the arm, and through the agencv of the dorso-epitroch- 

 lear slip of the Latissimus Dorsi, the fascia of the rest of the 

 upper extremity. 



TJje Bhomboidevs arises tendinously from the occiput seven 

 lines from the median line. It arises, also, from the ligamentum 

 nuchte its entire length, and from the five upper dorsal spines. It 

 is inserted with the Serratus Magnus at the upper border of the 

 scapula for nine lines. The posterior third of the fibres at the ver- 

 tebral border are coarser than the remainder. Some of the fibres 

 pass upward upon the dorsum of the scapula. It is supplied by 

 branches of the cervical plexus at the middle of the lateral border. 



The Serratus Jlagnus arises from the transverse processes of 

 tlie fourth, the fifth, the sixth and the seventh cervical vertebi'se 

 and from the first seven ribs. It is inserted into the vertebral 

 border of the scapula its entire length.' Its nerve-supply is from 

 the long thoracic. 



' The vertebral border is separable from the anterior by being twice its 

 thickness, and in being limited anteriorly by the triangular base of the 

 spine. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



The Latissimus Dorsi arises from all the dorsal spines, from 

 the vertebral aponeurosis, and from the twelfth, the thirteenth and 

 the fourteenth ribs. It is inserted into a linear rugosity on the 

 shaft of the humerus, placed to the median side of the deltoid 

 ridge, and behind the tendon of the endo-pectoral portion of the 

 Pectoral muscle. The dorso-epitrochlear slip equals in width the 

 Latissimus at its insertion. It arises by a broad origin from the 

 Latissimus, just prior to the formation of its tendon, and is 

 tendinously inserted upon the median margin of the olecranon 

 for its entire length. The internal dorso-epitrochlear slip seen in 

 Felis is here absent. A long, slender slip of the ventral border of 

 the Latissimus is inserted upon the central axillary tendon. It 

 is supplied by numerous branches from the intercostal nerves, and 

 at the axilla b}' a branch of the brachial plexus. 



The Pectoralis Major muscle is divided into two portions. That 

 portion which is superficial at the A^entro-anterior aspect of the 

 thorax (Ecto-pectoral of Wilder) arises from the sternum, a little 

 more than one-half its length, also from an intermuscular septum 

 between it and the muscle of the opposite side, extending thence 

 four lines from the sternum along the median line of the neck. 

 It is inserted into the deltoid ridge of the humerus, and into the 

 triangular space lying between this ridge and the head of the 

 bone. At its distal end this muscle is inserted with the Cephalo- 

 humeral. This portion is fleshy throughout, except at the under 

 surface at its insertion. It represents the P. pi'imus, P. secundus 

 and P. quinfus of other mammals. An imperfect attempt is made 

 at the separation of the P. quinfus, but none of the P. primus. 



That portion which is deep-seated at the ventro-anterior aspect 

 of the thorax (Endo-pectoral of Wilder) embraces a broad and 

 imperfectly differentiated sheet of fibres pertaining to the Pannic- 

 ulus, and to a sternal mass. The two divisions fuse intimately, 

 so that they need not be separately described. They together 

 represent the P. quartus of other mammals. 



The usual plan of description of a muscle may here with 

 propriety- be reversed, and the insertion described before the 

 origin. Lying beneath the fibres of insertion of the superficial 

 portion of the muscle is a thin fibrous sheet that is attached to 

 the deltoid ridge, to the median side of the insertion of the 

 superficial portion. It extends from this line upwards over the 

 scapular tendon of the liiceps, and is lost in the capsule of the 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



shoulder-Joint and in the fascia over the coracoid process, as well 

 as that beneath the Subscapular muscle. It passes downward 

 beyond the ridge, where it receives a few fibres from the superficial 

 portion and is lost in the antebrachial fascia. 



It is nearly as broad as long, and in every part is distinct from 

 the superficial portion of the Pectoral. In this description of the 

 Pectoral group the membrane will receive the name of the fibrous 

 membrane of insei'tion or the central axillary tendon. 



The paunicular division of the deep mass arises as a broad sheet 

 from the superficial fascia of the trunk, its dorsal portion from the 

 sacrum to over the scapula, and the ventral portion from over the 

 middle line of the thorax. Its fascicles converge toward the axilla, 

 some of them fusing with the lower margin of the sternal sheet, 

 and others ending on the posterior margin of the fibrous mem- 

 brane of insertion. Others yet are inserted about the middle of 

 the under (ventral) border of this membrane of insertion. — The 

 sternal sheet arises from the sternum at the lower border of the 

 supei*ficial portion, which overlaps it, to the base of the ensiform 

 cartilage, as well as from the subcutaneous tissue at the prsecor- 

 dium. It is a ribbon-shaped, fieshy muscle, and ends on the 

 membrane of insertion by distinct fibres, and is continued over 

 it to the deltoid ridge. These fibres are free from the membrane 

 at the upper half of the line of insertion. Placed between the 

 paunicular and the sternal sheets, a third fascicle is received, 

 viz., a marginal slip from the Latissimus Dorsi. 



Arising from the lower margin of the membrane of insertion, 

 is the median dorso-epitrochlear slip. It fuses with the Trapezius 

 at its distal half It is inserted on the median margin of the ole- 

 cranon, and contributes to the formation of the antebrachial fascia- 

 Muscular fibres thus approach the aponeurosis of insertion of 

 the deep portion of the pectoral from the skin of the back and 

 abdomen, from the sternum and from the Latissimus Dorsi. The 

 lower margin of the membrane receives more fibres than the 

 remaining portions, while the proximal parts receive none. The 

 sternal sheet at its upper half tends to be specialized from the 

 membrane, and throughout can be said to adduct tlie humerus. 

 The paunicular sheet, together with the Latissimus slip, may be 

 described as a tensor of the sheath of the Biceps anil of the 

 capsule of the shoulder-joint. The median dorso-epitrochlear 

 slip protects the nerves of the upper arm. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Tke Pertoralis Minor (P. TertiusJ arises from the second to the 

 fifth costal cartilages inclusive, to the outer side of the sternum, 

 and is inserted tendinously into the bicipital border of the great 

 tuberosit}- of the humerus. It here forms the anterior part of the 

 capsule, and is united with the Supraspinatus muscle. This 

 muscle has been described in human anatomy as being inserted on 

 the Supraspinatus, or as being continuous with it. 



In Procyon no portion of either the Pectoralis Major or Pecto- 

 ralis Secuudus is inserted into the antebrachial fascia. The 

 Pectorals are supplied by branches of the brachial plexus and of 

 the intercostal nerves. 



(6) Intrinsic Set. 



The Supfaspinatas and the Infraspinatus Muscles do not 

 present sufficient points of difference as compared with the same 

 muscles in other mammals to deserve special description. The 

 Supraspinatus is, in great part, bilaminated, the interlaminate 

 space tending to open forward. The origin of the Deltoid and 

 the insertion of the Trapezius largely conceal the Infraspinatus. 

 The nerves are received from the suprascapular nerve. 



The Subscapularis is composed of three main sub-divisions. 

 The most anterior of these arises fi'om the anterior border of the 

 scapula for its entire length, and the intermuscular septum between 

 it and the Supraspinatus muscle. It is inserted into the humerus. 

 It yields fibres of origin to the Coraco-Brachialis. Its fibres are 

 parallel with those of the last-named muscle, and ma}' be said to 

 be physiologically in continuity with them. The tendons of the 

 remaining subdivisions of the Subscapularis underlie the tendon 

 of the first division. 



The muscle is entirely free from insertion into the delicate cap- 

 sule of the shoulder-joint. It is supplied by three nerves, each of 

 which is a brancii of the brachial plexus. 



The Teres Major arises fnmi the aponeurosis of tlie Infraspinatus, 

 from the lower margin of the Subscapularis near the scapular 

 angle, as well as from a small portion of the scapula at the upper 

 end of the vertebral l)oider. The muscle is tendinous where it 

 overlies the humerus and is inserted beneath tlie Pectoralis 

 Secundus, on the median side of the bicipital groove. 



Directly l)ack of the origin of the Teres Major lies tiie insertion 

 of the Rhomboideus. The muscle is supi)]ied by a branch of the 

 brachial plexus. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Teres Minor This muscle is so intimately fused with the 



Infraspinatus as not to demand a separate description. 



Deltoid. — The fascicle from the fascia over the Infraspinatus 

 muscle joins the fascicle from the acromion at the distal half of 

 the latter. The two fascicles thence continue as a single muscle 

 to the humerus. The nerve-suppl3% which is from the anterior 

 circumflex, is abundant. The most important fascicle would 

 appear to be from the Infraspinatus fascia. The tendon receives 

 the terminal fascicle on its outer surface, and its tendon of 

 insertion lies in contact with the tendon of origin of the outer 

 liead of the Triceps. 



The Triceps possesses four heads. The tirst arises from the 

 scapula, as in man, by a thin tendon as broad as the muscular 

 belly, and is inserted into the tip of the olecranon. 



The second, or lateral humeral portion, from the lateral aspect 

 of the neck of the humerus by a flat, thick tendon, one-fourth 

 the greatest width of the belly. It is inserted into the tendon of 

 the preceding, and into the olecranon on the lateral border, and 

 into the ulna at its upper fourth, where it becomes continuous 

 with the Profound Flexor as it arises from the posterior edge 

 of the ulna. The second portion receives an accession of mus- 

 cular fibres from the posterior median portion of the neck of the 

 humerus. It joins the bell}' half way down the humerus. — The 

 third portion arises by a flat, thin tendon from a median surface 

 upon the humeriis at its upper third. It merges in part with 

 the small Coraco-Brachialis. It also arises from a distinct broad 

 surface upon the border of the humerus between the epitrochlea 

 and the upper border of the epitrochlear foramen. This slip is 

 inserted into the olecranon and is merged with the origin of the 

 Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Tiiis is quite a frequent human anomaly. 



The scapular head of the Triceps, with the internal humeral 

 fasciculi, form parts of a single bilateral laminated sheet. The 

 dorsal ])orlion of this sheet is aponeurotic at and near the olecra- 

 non, and is continuous with the antebrachial fascia. The external 

 humeral head from the proximal end is bilaminate one-half its 

 entire length.' 



' In Felis the internal humeral head is distinct from the scapular, and 

 the tilaminate arrangeraen* is in all parts of the muscle less evident than 

 in Procyon. 




^22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Nerve-Supph/. — The nerves of the Triceps enter the interlami- 

 nate spaces, there being one nerve for the scapular and the internal 

 humeral heads, and a second for the external humeral head. 



It is worthy of note that in Procyon the Triceps is inserted not 

 onl}^ behind the elliow, but, by an aponeurosis, into the ulna in 

 /ro7ii of the elbow. Since the ulna cannot move and the insertion 

 is chiefly on the lateral border, the bone, after being extended, is 

 with the humerus rotated inward at the shoulder. In a word, the 

 Triceps is an inward rotator of the entire extremity. 



Anconeus arises upon the posterior surface of the humeru.s 

 from the triangular space at the lower half of the bone. Its 

 firmest attachment is on the lateral border. It also arises from 

 the epicondyle, one line below the tip, directly to the onter side 

 of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. Its fibres are inserted into the 

 entire lateral surface of the olecranon, and the whole muscle keeps 

 well to the lateral half of the joint. Nerve-supply : The long 

 nerve to the Anconeus sends a branch to the external humeral 

 head of the Triceps. 



Biceps Cuhiti arises by a single stout head from the coracoid 

 process of the scapula. The muscle presents on the proximal 

 half of both its anterior and posterior aspects a thin, glistening, 

 fibrous surfoce, but at the distal half it is free from superficial 

 fibrous tissue. The tendon of insertion is but one-third the length 

 of the tendon of origin. It is inserted into the tubercle of the 

 radius. This entire muscle is composed of a sheet which is so 

 folded upon itself as to produce the effect of a pair of laminse, 

 joined at the lateral border. Three separate branches from the 

 brachial plexus enter the muscle in the interlaminate space, as 

 well as a fourth, which, indeed, supplies the muscle, but since it 

 lies in the position of the musculo-cutaneous trunk of Felis and 

 most mammals, may be identified with this nerve. It does not, how- 

 ever, pierce either this muscle or the Coraco-Brachialis, as in man. 



Coraco-Brachialis arises from the coracoid process by a narrow 

 tendon which winds across the ventral surface of the tendon of 

 the Subscapularis muscle. The muscle increases in width as it 

 descends, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the humerus distally 

 to the tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi. The fibres of insertion are 

 in close connection with the fibres of origin of the median head 

 of the Triceps muscle. It receives a long slender nerve from tlie 

 subscapiilur group of nerves from the brachial plexus. 




1882.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Brarhiaiia Anticus arises by penniforin flesh}^ fasciculi from 

 the entire lateral surface of the humerus. It lies in juxtaposition 

 with the Biceps. No fibres whatever arise from the front or 

 median surfiice. The upper fibres are nearlj' vertical and the lower 

 nearl}- horizontal. Its tendon passes beneath that of the Biceps, 

 and is inserted upon the median surface of the ulna, below the 

 •elbow-joint. The Brachialis Anticus keeps the ulna in contact 

 with the trochlea, while the Biceps flexes the forearm. It also 

 assists the Biceps in this nioveinent and keeps the iilna within 

 the tract of flexion. 



The Brachialis does not arise from all the surface of the humerus 

 which it covers ; the muscular fibres are connected with the bone 

 along the margins of the muscle only. The slips extend the 

 •entire length of the median, but for a shorter distance on the 

 lateral margin. It is inserted upon a smooth surface on the 

 median aspect of the ulna below the coronoid process. It is thus 

 seen that this is chiefly a lateral muscle as related to the axis of 

 the humerus, and by its insertion on the innermost and posterior 

 portions of the two bones of the foreann, pursues an oblique 

 <lirection as a whole, from the oi'igin to the insertion. A variation 

 in man consists in the union of this muscle with the Supinator 

 Longus. 



Pronator Radii 2'eres. — This muscle arises from the front of 

 the epitrochlea, a surface which it exclusively occupies, the remain- 

 ing flexors lying below it. It is aponeurotic in origin, interiorly, 

 and is wholly tendinous at its insertion. The distal border of 

 the tendon reaches the middle of the shaft of the bone. The 

 Pronator is to the radius what the Brachialis Anticus is to the 

 ulna. The nerve-s\ipply is derived from a small branch of the 

 median nerve. 



Flexor Carpi RadialiK nrises in common with the Flexor 

 Sublimis Digitorum, and with the fine fasciculi with which it is 

 intimately fused. It is inserted into the base of the second meta- 

 <:;arpal bone, beneath the origin of the Metacarpo-Phalaugeal 

 Flexors. It receives its nerve-suppl}- from the median nerve. 



Flexor Carpi Ulnaria arises by two heads ; the first arises from 

 the depression on the median side of the olecranon, where it is 

 continuous with the aponeurotic slip from the median humeral head 

 of the Triceps, and is inserted by n long and narrow tendon into 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



the pisiform bone. The second head arises from the epitrochlea 

 of the humerus, passes down parallel to the foregoing, and is 

 inserted into the pisiform bone to the median side of the first 

 portion. The second head also arises from the epitrochlea in 

 common with the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. The muscle lies 

 entirely upon the Flexor Profundus, and does not touch the ulna. 

 The nerve-suppl}' of the first head is ver^- minute, and confined 

 to the extreme proximal end of the belly. That for the second 

 head is larger, branches being received from the ulnar nerve at 

 three ditterent points along the proximal half of the bell}-. 



It is evident tliat in Procyon the two divisions of the Flexor 

 Carpi Ulnaris usually' described are equivalent to distinct muscles. 

 Unlike the arrangement seen in Felis, no attempt at fusion 

 between the ulnar and humeral heads is seen, while the tendencj' 

 for the humeral head to fuse with the superficial flexor is seen in 

 both forms, though to a much less degree m Frocyon than in 

 Felis.^ 



Palmaris Longus. — The Palmaris Longus was double in one 

 specimen, both portions arising in common with the Flexor 

 Sublimis Digitorum.^ In the other specimen it was found to be 

 single, and the nerve-supply little or none. 



Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. — This muscle arises from the 

 epitrochlea. It soon divides into two portions. One of these 

 passes without division to the Flexor Profundus Digitorum ; the 

 other, the main muscle, divides into two parts, one of which is 

 inserted into the first and the second toes, and the other on the 

 third and the fourth toes. The slips for the first and the second 

 toes divide into two slips, one for each side of the sheath of the 

 deep flexor at the first phalanx. In one specimen, the first toe 

 received no slip. 



The nerve-supply is from a small braneli of tlu^ median nerve. 



' The connection between the insertion of the muscle and the fifth 

 metacarpal bone is much less decided than between the Extensor Carpi 

 Uluaris and the same bone. Such connection has been omitted as part of 

 the essential description of the muscle. 



^The Extensors lie successively along a ridge (.snpracondyloid ridge). 

 The flexors are collected in a "byuch' at a process (not a ridge), the 

 I'ronator Radii Teres excepted. This muscle lies by itself above and in 

 front of the "bunch." 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



The failure of the superficial flexor to support the sheaths of 

 the third and fourth digits, may occur as an anomaly in man.' 



The Flexor Profundus Dig if arum arises in a penniform manner 

 from the ulna, as follows : 1st, from the concavity on the median 

 surface of the olecranon ; 2d, from the posterior border of the 

 ulna at the u]iper third ; and 3d, from the median surface of the 

 idna at its middle third, near the distal end. The second portion 

 derives some fibres from the membranous expanse of tlie Triceps on 

 the lateral surface of the olecranon, and the intermuscidar septum 

 between it and the Extensor Indicis. Its tendons pass to the four 

 outer toes. The under part of the tendon at the wrist is smooth. 



Macalister^ does not mention the union with the Triceps tendon. 

 This might be found to varN' in man. The nerve-supply of this 

 muscle is from the median nerve. 



The Flexor Loncjus PolHcis is composed of two separate por- 

 tions, a superficial and a deep. The superficial portion arises in 

 common with the Flexor Carpi Radialis from the epitrochlea. It 

 is fleshy for the upper third of its course, and joins the Flexor 

 Profundus Digitorum at the lower border of the annular ligament. 

 Just prior to the formation of the tendon, muscular slips join the 

 bellies of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and the Flexor Pro- 

 fundus Digitorum. Below the annular ligament the tendon for 

 the thumb leaves the Profundus and passes to the second phalanx. 

 From this tendon arises a Lumbrical muscle. A large slip passes 

 from the fleshy portion to the tendon of the deep flexor just above 

 the annular ligament. 



The deep slip is penniform in character. It arises from the 

 radius at its upper third, and joins the conjoined tendon at the 

 upper border of the annular ligament. The last-named slip is 

 evidently homologous with the anthropodean muscle of the same 

 name. The nerve-supply is from the median. 



It is interesting to note that the variations of this muscle in the 

 human subject include in essential features the above arrange- 

 ment. Mr. Carver ^ describes as arising partly from the Profundus 



* In Nasua fuscus the slips of union between the superficial and the 

 deep flexor are tlirei in number, and are inserted on the conjoined tendon 

 above the annular ligament. The union of the Sublimis with the Pro- 

 fundus occurs below the tendon. 



- Trans. Royal Irish Acad., xv, 1872. 



' Jour, of Anat. and Phys,, iii, 260. 




12f) PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



and partly from the Sublimis, a small muscle which became 

 tendinous, and, just above the annular li^rament. divided into t-wo- 

 portions, one for the Flexor Pollieis, and one for the Profundus 

 slip for the index finger. Excepting the slips from the Sublimis. 

 this follows the plan in Proryon., tlie division in the latter 

 occurring higher up. The lumbrical slip also is repeated as an 

 anomaly in human mj^ology (Wood and Macalister). The origin 

 of the muscle from the epitrochlea, instead of from the radius, is 

 a common human variation. The origin in common with the 

 Plexor Carpi Radialis is, so far as 1 know, not repeated in man. 

 The Extensores Gaiyi Badiales Longior et Bremor, are as in 

 man ; the Brevior is the stronger of the two, and is confluent 

 above with the Extensor Communis Digitorum. 



It is supplied by the posterior muscular branch of the musculo- 

 spiral nerve before it pierces the Supinator Brevis. The nerves 

 spread on the under surface l»y short, single trunks at the prox- 

 imal end. 



The Supinator Brevis arises from the orbicular ligament by a 

 narrow tendon, and is inserted upon the upper third of the radius. 

 This is the arrangement in Gruber's Tensor Ligamentura Orbicu- 

 laris Anterior of Man. He found it in fifteen cases in one 

 hundred. This muscle is pierced by the posterior muscular 

 branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, and receives from it its nerve- 

 supply. 



*The Supinator Longus, much narrower than in Felis. arises 

 muscularly from the upper end of the upper third of the Supra- 

 condyloid ridge, and is inserted tendinousl}'^ upon the distal end 

 of the radius. Its sparse nerve-supply is confined to a single 

 small branch to the proximal end, derived from the posteric^r 

 muscular branch of the musculo-spiral prior to its piercing the 

 Supinator Brevis muscle. 



Hie Extensor Communis Digitorum arises from the sujjra- 

 condyloid ridge between the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, 

 and the Extensor Minimi Digiti, and is in common therewith. It 

 soon, however, separates from them, and, forming a tendon, divides 

 beneath the annular ligament into four small tendons. These 

 reunite upon the dorsum of the carpus to again separate and 

 pass to the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of each toe. It is 

 supplied from the posterior branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. 

 Extensor (Jar pi (Unaris arises from the external condyle of 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCBS OF PHILADELPHIA. 12T 



tlie humorus by a relutively broad tendon. The flat, weak belly 

 terminates obliquely on a broad, stout tendon of insertion, which 

 is attached to the lateral border of the pisiform bone at the base 

 of the fifth metacarpal bone. The connection with the pisiform 

 bone is more exact than in Felis. but in addition to fixing the 

 pisiform the tendon seems to make tense the dorsal aponeurosis. 

 It is largely ligamentous in action, and probably protects both 

 the elbow and the wrist-joints. 



Nerve-Supply. — Nerves are received on the median border by 

 three distinct trunks. They are thus more numerous than those 

 to the flexors of the carpus and of the fingers. The nerves arise 

 from a little close network which also supplies the Extensor 

 Communis Digitorum, and is derived from a branch of the 

 musculo-spiral, which penetrates the Supinator Brevis. 



Extensor Ossi Metacarpi PoUicis occupies the interval between 

 the ulna and the radius, and arises from the proximal end of the 

 distal half of the latter, and along the shaft of the former from the 

 side of the olecranon to near the distal extremity. The muscle 

 below the oblique ligament is penniform, the long oblique ulnar 

 fibres joining the medianly-placed tendon, which winds around the 

 distal third of the radius, lying in the pronounced groove at the 

 wrist-joint, and is inserted into the median aspect of the proximal 

 end of the first metacarpal bone. In one specimen the muscle 

 was bi-penniform, the muscular fibres arising from the radius being 

 inserted into the tendon to the median side. The weak nerve- 

 supply of this muscle is derived from the posterior l)ranch of 

 the musculo-spiral, the nerves entering upon its upper free 

 surface. 



The Extensor Minimi Digiti arises from the supracondyloid 

 ridge to the outer side of the preceding muscle, which it resembles 

 in its general features, also from the orbicular and external lateral 

 ligaments of the elbow-joint, and passes beneath the annular 

 ligament by a distinct sheath, viz., over the distal end of the 

 ulna. The tendons do not reunite after the first sepai'ation, 

 but are inserted upon the lateral surfaces of the first phalanges 

 of the three outer toes. The slip to the fifth toe is not distinct 

 from the rest of the muscle as in Felis? 



' In Nasua fuscus the E. M. Digiti tends to unite with the Extensor 

 Communis Digitorum, but subsequently separates therefrom before inser- 

 tion. 




128 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



The Extensor Indicts arises from the lateral aspect of the ulna 

 just below the olecranon, and, for a slight distance, from the 

 septum between it and the Flexor Profundus. Its tendon passes 

 parallel to the ulna, and reaches the manus b}-- running beneath 

 the tendon of the Extensor Communis Digitorum beneath the 

 annular ligament. The tendinous slips ai-e inserted upon the first, 

 the second and third fingers to the lateral side beneath the three 

 tendons of the Extensor Communis. The muscle receives a 

 tendinous slip from the Extensor Minimi Digiti, and is thus an 

 abductor, and assists the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris and the Extensor 

 Minimi Digiti. It receives two branches from the posterior 

 muscular branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. 



Pronator Qitadratus extends from the middle of the forearm to 

 the proximal border of the distal epiphysis of the radius and of 

 the ulna. It is broader toward the wrist than toward the elbow 

 where its fibres are pale and inconspicuous. The radial fibres are 

 not concealed by the stout aponeurosis so conspicuous in Felis. 

 The nerve-supply is from a deep branch of the interosseous. 



Palmaris Brevis arises as a single slip from the annular liga- 

 ment and is lost over the base of the fifth toe. 



The Intrinsic Muscles of the Manus embrace the following :— 



The Opponens HaUucis. — This insignificant fascicle arises from 

 the fibrous tissue over the sheath of the Flexor Carpi Radialis, 

 and is inserted into the proximal end of the first metacarpal bone. 

 It is upon the same plane with some of the fibres of origin of the 

 first Metacarpo-Phalangeal Flexor. 



The Palmar Interossei. — These muscles are three in number. 

 The first and the third, passing respectively to the first phalanx 

 of the hallux and tlw? first phalanx of the annularis, are twice as 

 I)road as the second, which goes to the first phalanx of the index 

 finger. These all arise from the fibrous tissue over the proximal 

 ends of the metacarpal bones. 



Opponent Minimi Dicjiti arises in common with these muscles 

 to the lateral aspect, and is fused at its proximal third with the 

 third muscle. It is inserted into the distal end of the metacarpal 

 bone. 



Flexor Hrevis Minimi Digiti arises from the annular ligament 

 and is inserted into the sheath of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum 

 by a structure exactly similar to that found in the pes. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Abductor Minimi Digit i arises from the pisiform iioue and ends 

 by a long aponeurotic tendon upon tlie sheath of the first phalanx 

 of the fifth toe in its lateral aspect. The musch^ receives an 

 accessory slip from tlie connective tissue beneath the deep flexor. 



The Metacarpo-PhaJamjeaJ Flexors. — Each arises from the met- 

 acarpal bone of the corresponding toe and is inserted into the 

 sesamoid bone of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The fifth toe 

 alone possesses the Dorsal Interosseus, and even in this instance 

 the muscle is in great part fused with the flexor muscle. For the 

 remaining toes the Dorsal Interosseus is undiflereutiated, yet 

 latero-dorsal slips of tendon connect those parts of the flexor 

 muscles seen from above in the intercarpal spaces, with the sides 

 of the sheaths of the digits. As in the pes, so in the manus the 

 divisions between the two portions of the flexors are more pro- 

 nounced in the hallux and annularis than in the remaining toes.^ 



The Muscles of the Infertoh Extukmity. 



{a\ Extrinsic Set. 



QuadratuK Lumborum. — This muscle has not been diflerentiated 

 from the vertebral series in Procyon. On the ventral aspect a 

 flat slip is seen arising from the second lumbar vertebra on a line 

 with the origin of the transverse abdominal muscle. It passes 

 upward and outward to be inserted on the last rib at about its 

 middle. A second flat slip, lying a little below the preceding, 

 and on a deeper plane, appears to be a cleavage from the internal 

 oblique abdominal muscle. It arises from the ventral aspect ol" 

 the Longissimus Dorsi, and is inserted into the last rib at its 



' The Lumbricales, Pahnar and Dorsal Interossei muscles of Proeyou 

 may be described as inserted into the sheath of the digit. In the manus 

 of the Macaque this was seen to be the case also. It will be remembered 

 that in human anatomy the Dorsal Interossei are described as having their 

 insertions into the extensor tendons of the digits as well as into the base 

 of the first phalanx of each finger. It is probable that the simplest ex- 

 pressions of these muscles in mammals are as tensors of the sheaths of the 

 digits on the dorsal and lateral surfaces, and tliat their connection with the 

 tendons of the extensors of the fingers is not an essential one. Indeed the 

 extensor tendons themselves may be said to end upon the same sheath, the 

 latter being described as enveloping each digit like the fingerstall of a 

 glove. It is free everywhere between the interphalangeal joints above and 

 at the sides, but is closely incorporated with the capsules of the last-named 

 joints as well as with the sheaths of the flexor tendons. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



ventral third. These two slips are, perhaps, representative of the 

 costal fibres of the Quadratus. The ilio-vertebral fibres are 

 represented by an imperfectly differentiated slip, extending from 

 the ventral aspect of the iliac crest to the transverse processes of 

 the last lumbar vertebra. 



The Longissimus Dorsi is very conspicuous from the ventral 

 aspect of the trunk, and doubtless affords the generalized mass 

 from which the Quadratus Lumborum of human anatomy has 

 been evolved.' 



Psoas Minor arises from the ventral surfoces of the bodies of 

 the first three lumbar vertebra, and is fused with the Psoas 

 Magnus. It is inserted by a broad, glistening aponeurosis into a 

 pronounced ridge of the ilium, directly above the ilio-poctineal 

 eminence. 



Psoas Magnus arises from tlie bodies of the third, fourth and 

 fifth lumbar vertebrae, and the anterior surface of the corresponding 

 transverse processes. After being joined b^* the Iliacus Internus, 

 its tendon is inserted, after -winding around the neck of the femur, 

 into the trochanter minor. Both the Psoas muscles are perforated 

 by a branch of the lumbar plexus, the Psoas Magnus being more 

 j)articularl3^ supplied l)v n number of sliort filaments from the 

 anterior crural nerve. 



Iliacus Inlerniii<, arises by a long slip the entire length of the 

 iliac fossa, and by a broad sheet of fibres extending across the 

 venter of the ischium below the attachment of the ilio-lumbar 

 fascicle of the (Quadratus Lumborum, and also by a thin slip 

 directly above the origin of the Rectus Femoris. The muscle is 

 not confined to the pelvis. The anterior margin overlies the 

 origin of the Tensor Vagina? Femoris and of the Rectus Femoris. 

 It is fused with the Psoas Magnus at the upper margin of the 

 acetabulum. 



The Psoas Magnus and the Psoas Minor unite with the verte- 

 ])ral mass, from which they are imperfectly differentiated, in 

 forming a powerful vertebral flexor, which can be traced upward 

 behind tlie pleura as far as the body of the ninth dorsal vertebra. 

 The Psoas Magnus can be divided into several imperfectly rlefiiied 

 lamiufe, the interspaces between which carry the branches of the 

 lumbar and sacral plexuses. 



' The muscle last named is here inchided, for while acknowledged to be 

 a tiimkal mnscle it has important relations to the iunoniinate hone. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Gluteus Maximus The Gluteus Maximum arises from the 



ilium, the vertebral aponeurosis, the lateral margin of the sacrum 

 and the transverse process of the first caudal vertebra. The iliac 

 origin is membranous, its under surface being in intimate union 

 with the Gluteus Medius. The sacral origin is musculo-tendinous, 

 as is that from the first caudal vertebra. The common sheet 

 formed by the union of the two surfaces last named, aflbrds origin 

 for a slip of the Lateral Caudal muscle. The margins of the 

 Gluteus are muscular throughout their entire length, but the 

 muscle becomes tendinous as it overlies the trochanter major. 

 It is in close connection if not continuous with the upper margin 

 of the Quadratus Femoris at its insertion. The Gluteus Maximus 

 is inserted into the third trochanter, which lies rather upon the 

 anterior than upon the lateral surface of the femur, and by a well- 

 defined slip into the fascia lata. 



The anterior border of the Gluteus Maximus is inseparable 

 from the corresponding border of the Gluteus Minimus. 



The nerve-supply of the Gluteus Maximus is derived from 

 branches piercing both the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus 

 Minimus near their anterior borders : the longest branch (arriving 

 from the great sciatic nerve) lying on the under surface of the 

 muscle, corresponding pretty accurately to that portion arising 

 from the sacrum and the first caudal vertebra. In addition to 

 these nerves the muscle receives several branches of the Inferior 

 Gluteal nerve. The entire muscle easily resolves itself into two 

 portions, which, however, cannot be separated by the knife. The 

 anterior portion, of iliac origin, receives nerves hy distinct Glu- 

 teal branches, and becoming fused with the Gluteus Medius, rotates 

 the femur inward ; while the posterior portion arises entirely 

 from the sacrum and first caudal vertebra, fuses with the Tenuis- 

 simus, and, receiving the distinct and verj' long gluteal branch 

 already mentioned, rotates the femur outward. The last-named 

 muscular portion is extrinsic to the posterior extremity, while the 

 first-named is intrinsic.^ 



' That poition of the Gluteus Maximus described as the second part iu 

 Felu, was not present iu Procyon. The caudal or ventral origin of the 

 Biceps Femoris would appear to compensate for its absence. The second 

 part of the Gluteus Maximus of the cat is, in all probability, the same as 

 the high origin of the Biceps Flexor, since it can be traced directly to the 

 intermuscular septum between the Vastus Externus and the Adductor 

 Magnus, and is continued thence to the capsule of the knee-joint. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Gluteus Medius. — The Gluteus Medius arises from the dorsum 

 of the ilium, the uuder surface of the apoueurosis of the fi. Maxi- 

 mus, and, In- a separate set of fascicles, from the lateral border 

 and the anterior surface of the sacrum. Fibres pass downward 

 to be inserted into the great trochanter. Posteriorly this muscle 

 is divisible into two planes which anteriorly are fused. The ante- 

 rior portion is iliac in origin, and is inserted into the trochanter 

 major. Superficiall}' it is supplied by nerves in common with the 

 G. Minimus. Its interior is fibrous. The posterior portion, 

 slightly overlapped by the anterior, arises from the sacrum and is 

 supplied by nerves passing directly from the sciatic at the great 

 sacro-sciatic foramen. It is also supplied on the dorsal surftice by 

 a nerve escaping from the great sacro-sciatic foramen in common 

 with the superior gluteal, but distinct from it. This portion of 

 the G. Medius is inserted into the great trochanter as it borders 

 on the digital fossa. 



It is evident that a parallel can be here instituted between the 

 (t. Maximus and the G. Medius. The sacral part of each muscle 

 can easily be distinguished from the iliac i)ortion. In the case of 

 the G. Medius the division has gone so far as to form the outline 

 of two distinct muscles, but which are not completely separable 

 the one from the other. 



Gluteus Miaimua. — The Gluteus Minimus arises from the 

 dorsum of the ilium below that surface occupied by the G. Medius. 

 It fuses anteriorly with the G. Maximus. This fusion enables the 

 observer to classify the G. Minimus as a deep lamina of complex 

 muscle, of which the G. Maximus is a superficial lamina, the two 

 planes of cleavage being in this instance so remote from one 

 another posteriorly, as to permit so large a muscle as the G. 

 Medius to be received between them. The same disposition 

 toward planal cleavage witnessed in the G. Medius is also found 

 in the G. Minimus; the superficial lamina, however, is quite rudi- 

 mentary, and is confined to the anterior fifth of the dorsal surface. 

 Between the two laminjc passes a large trunk from the superior 

 Gluteal set of nerves which supplies both the G. Medius, G. Mini- 

 mus and ultimately the anterior part of the G. Maximus. The 

 G. Minimus is inserted in the anterior edge of the trochanter 

 major by a narrow glistening tendon, and is in close relation to 

 the hip-joint. 



Tensor Vaginfe Femoris. — The Tensor Vagiine Femoris arises 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



from the ventral edge of the ilium on a line with and immediately 

 posterior to the Sartorius. It arises by a thin membranous tendon 

 on a level -with the great trochanter at the middle of the thigh, 

 and ends in the fascia lata. It does not fuse with the muscles of 

 the Gluteal group. 



The structure last named is continuous with the fibres of inser- 

 tion of the Biceps Femoris at the side of the knee, but is not in 

 a line with the head of the tibia, but rather with the side of the 

 patella. The nerve-supply is probablj' from the inferior gluteal ; 

 the dissection did not permit of an exact identification. 



(b) Intrinsic Set. 



The Bicejjs Femoris. — The Biceps Femoris arises by a broad 

 stout aponeurosis from a spine of the sacrum,^ and by a musculo- 

 tendinous mass from the tuberosity of the ischium. The muscle 

 forms a broad sheet of fibres over the outer side of the thigh and 

 ends in a second aponeurosis at the lateral margin of the patella, 

 and the head of the tibia. At a point about on a level with the 

 head of the tibia, a slender fascicle is given ofl' that passes over 

 the leg superficial!}- and joins the Soleus, and with the last-named 

 muscle contributes to the formation of the Tendo-Aehillis. 

 Beneath the Biceps lies the Tenuissimus. This arises from the 

 under surface of the Gluteus Maximus, and passing down over 

 the sciatic nerve is lost over the fascia of the leg. 



The Biceps was found in one dissection to present variation 

 from the above description. The body of the muscle as it arose 

 from the ischium divided into two portions, an anterior and a 

 posterior. The anterior, larger — and at the ischium the more 

 superficial portion — was inserted entirely upon the side of the 

 patella and the external tibial condyle. The posterior portion 

 became superficial about six lines below the tuberosity, and was 

 inserted by a broad, thin surface on the fascia of the leg, and, 

 finally, instead of joining the Soleus, was continuous with the 

 Gastrocnemius at the beginning of the tendo-Achillis. The 

 Tenuissimus instead of arising from the Gluteus Maximus, arose 

 from its tendon of insertion into the third trochanter. It passed 

 to the posterior division of the Biceps, along the hinder Vtorder of 

 which it descended to the fascia of tlie leg. 



' In Ursus, according to the figure in Cuvier and Lieutaud, this slip is 

 absent. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



An examination of the variations of the Biceps Feraoris (Biceps 

 Flexor Cruris) results in adapting the above description in its 

 several parts to human anatomy. Sommering describes the muscle 

 with a second long head from the tuberosity of the ischium ; 

 Meckel with a third head from the upper portion of the linea 

 aspera ; Wood describes a head arising from the fascia beneath 

 the Gluteus Maximus. This is evidently the same as the Tenuis- 

 simus. A slip continuous proximally to the sacrum, has been 

 recorded by Theile and Macalister. A slip ma}- be attached to the 

 external cond3'le of the tibia. A slip may be inserted in the fascia 

 of the leg, or one may join the tendo-Achillis. 



It is further interesting to note that the muscle is variable in 

 Procyon as well as in the human subject. In one specimen the 

 Tenuissimus, which may be regarded as homologous with the 

 femoral head of the human muscle, was attached to the femur, 

 while it is commonl}^ seen arising from the Gluteus Maximus, 

 The fact last named would indicate that the muscle is of the same 

 relative value as one of the muscular slips passing between a super- 

 ficial and a deep muscle of the same group, as instanced in the 

 fascicle occasionally seen passing between the superficial and the 

 deep flexors of the fingers. It is supplied by a separate branch 

 of the sciatic as well as by branches in common with the Bicep.s. 

 The nerve-supply of the Biceps consists of great numbers of 

 minute branches from the lesser sciatic and its anastomosis with 

 the obturator nerve. 



The SemifendmosHf<. — This muscle arises from the upper end 

 of the tuberosity of the ischium, and by a fleshv slip from the 

 posterior margin of the aponeurosis of the Biceps. The last- 

 named slip joins the main bell)' at its upper third. The muscle is 

 inserted on the anterior surface of the tibia at its upper third. 

 Its tendon, as is usual, lies directl}' beneath the tendon of insertion 

 of the Gracilis. 



The Semitendinosus, while arising in great measure in. common 

 with the Biceps, is inserted on the opposite side of the limb. The 

 nerve-supply is from the sciatic. 



The Sf'mimembro7Wiivs arises from the entire posterior margin 

 of the innominate bone, excepting a portion a few lines in length 

 near the symphysis, which is occupied by the origin of the Adduc- 

 tor Magnus. It forms in reality two muscles. The first of these 

 — ischio-tibial — arises as a flnt l)and of tendinous libres from the 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



tuberosity of the ischium and is inserted into the tibia at the inner 

 tuberosity. The second — the ischio-pubio-femoral — arises from the 

 remaining portion of the posterior margin and is inserted into the 

 femur above the external condyle. Uniting the two is a long 

 fusiform slip, which arises from the ischium above and is inserted 

 with the other division into the femur. 



The nerves of the Semimembranosus are numerous and large. 

 The ischio-tibial is supplied by a distinct trunk from the great 

 sciatic nerve. The ischio-pubio-femoral by both this nerve and 

 the obturator. A long branch of the nerve first named runs along 

 the femoral division to its distal third, where it anastomoses with 

 a branch of the anterior crural nerve. 



Sarloriiis. — The Sartorius muscle arises from the anterior 

 superior spinous process of the ilium, by a rough angulated border 

 equalling in length one-third of the anterior border of the ilium, 

 and from a fibrous membraue continuous with the External Oblique 

 muscle of the abdomen. The muscle is broad and ribbon-shaped 

 and is inserted into the capsule of the knee-joint toward its median 

 surface, including the median border of the patella, and passing 

 thence downward to the tibia, where it is inserted membranously 

 on the anterior surface, for nearlj'^ one-half the length of the shaft. 

 On the same plane, it is in intimate union with the insertion of 

 the Gracilis. Beneath this plane lies the insertion of the Semi- 

 tendinosus. Tlie Sartorius is supplied at its upper third by the 

 anterior crural nerve, and at its lower fifth by n deeper-seated 

 branch froui the same nerve. 



Gracilis. — The Gracilis arises tendinously from tlie entire length 

 of the symph^-sis, aud muscularly by a thickened border from 

 the descending ramus of the pubis. It is inserted at the median 

 side of the patella, the median tuberosity of the tibia and the 

 correspondmg border of the tibia at its proximal third. It is 

 freely supplied both at the proximal and the distal portions by 

 branches of the anterior crural nerA'e. 



Adductor Magnus arises from the lower half of the symphyseal 

 line, the pubis at the beginning of the descending ramus and the 

 under surface of the Gracilis. It is inserted b\' flesh}- fibres into 

 the entire posterior surface of the distal half of the femur. The 

 fibres of insertion forui thi-ee distinct fasciculi, one, representing 

 the median cord that in the human subject, passes to the minute 

 ttibercle above tiie epiphysis, liut which is liere fleshy and dis- 




136 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



tributed over the posterior surfoce. The remaining portions lie 

 nearer the lateral margin, one of them directl}' upon it. The 

 nerves are derived from the anterior crural and the obturator. 



Adductor Longus arises from tlie symphysis and the pubic half 

 of the ilio-pectineal line. It is inserted into the femur hy an 

 oblique line near the median border. It is supplied by nerves 

 from the anterior crural. 



The Pectinexis and the Adductor Brems arise from the ilio- 

 pectineal line, but not from the bone between this line and the 

 acetabulum. Thej* are both inserted tendinously on the A. Longus, 

 but nearer the lateral border. Their nerves are derived from the 

 anterior crural. 



Quadriceps Extensor. — The Rectus arises over the acetabulum 

 by a single head. At its proximal seventh the muscle is tendinous 

 and overlaid hj the Psoas. It is free throughout, except at the 

 lower fourth of the outer side, where it is joined by the Vastus 

 Externus. It is protected by a sheath derived for the most part 

 from the Vastus Internus. On this sheath is inserted the Tensoi" 

 Vaginae Femoris. 



The Vastus Internus and Vastus Externus form a continuous 

 mass at the lower third of the thigh, behind the Rectus. They are 

 free from the femur at its upper Jialf ; the V. Internus arises for 

 the most part from the front of the shaft of the femur at the base 

 of the trochanter minor, and b}' a continuous small fleshy line 

 from the entire length of the front of the bone. It is continuous 

 with the' Crureus. The V. Externus, V. Internus and Crureus form 

 a muscular bed which is fibrous at its lower half. The nerve- 

 supply of the Quadriceps Extensor is derived from the anterior 

 crural nerve. In addition the Vastus Externus receives four or 

 five branches from the lesser sciatic nerve. 



Quadraius Fenioriii. — Tlie C^uadratus Femoris is a stout muscle 

 arising from the tuberosity and the ramus of the ischium, and 

 inserted into the posterior surface of the femur by a rugose cres- 

 centic line. Ft is supi)lied by a distinct nerve from the great 

 sciatic, which in proportion to the size of the muscle is unusually 

 large. 



Obturator E.rternus. — The Obturator Externus arises from the 

 border of the obturator foramen externallv, the descending ramus 

 of the pubis and the ramus of the ischium, and passes forward 

 to be inserted by a tendon which is superficial at its distal half 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



into the anterior lialf of the digital fossa. In the anterior part of the 

 muscle is seen an imperfect attempt at the formation of two laminae. 

 The tendon is here concealed to a greater degree than elsewhere. 

 The muscle receives its nerve-supply from the obturator nerve. 



Obturator Internus. — The Obturator Internus arises from the 

 entire inner surface of the innominate bone for a distance equalling 

 the extent of the sj^mphj'sis pubis. Save at its extreme anterior 

 margin and the trochlear surface as it winds round the border of 

 the ischium, the muscle is fleshj^ throughout. Both Gemelli 

 muscles are well developed and are fused in front of the main 

 tendon. The muscle is intimatelj' connected with the capsule 

 of the hip-joint and is fused at the insertion with the tendon of 

 the Obturator Externus. The Obturator Internus receives nerves 

 within the pelvis from the internal pudic, and the G-emelli from a 

 separate trunk destined for the Quadratus Femoris. 



The Gemelli form a deep lamina of cleavage from the main 

 mass of the Internal Obturator which represents a superficial layer 

 of the same muscle. 



Gastrocnemius — This muscle arises from the femur by two 

 heads. The outer head bears a sesamoid bone. — The fibrous tissue 

 between the femur and this bone are exceedingly stout and coarsely 

 fasciculated. A thin fascia-like membrane extends from the lateral 

 surface of the capsule of the knee-joint to the superficies of the 

 sesamoid. This is continuous with the Vastus Externus muscle, 

 so that when traction is made upon the muscle last named the 

 sesamoid can be moved slightly upward. This muscle, therefore, 

 can aid in fixing the bone at times when the Gastrocnemius and 

 the Plantaris contract. The bone is also supported by bands 

 extending to it from the posterior surface of the capsule. — The 

 outer head of the Gastrocnemius is pierced by a branch of the 

 sciatic nerve to supply the Soleus on its superior surface. Fusing 

 with the under surface of the outer head is the origin of the 

 Plantaris muscle. The inner head is of muscular origin and 

 ribbon-shaped, and is attached directly to the femur without the 

 intervention of a sesamoid bone. The two heads of the muscle 

 fuse at the upper third of the leg, forming a flat, triangular surface 

 which gradually- becomes tendinous toward the apex of the 

 triangle to form the tendo-Achillis.* An unusually large bursa 



' There is no slip of origin from the fascia over the head of the fibula as. 

 in Felis. 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



intervenes between the concave tuber calcis and the tendon. 

 "Under the head of the Biceps muscle it has already been men- 

 tioned that the Gastrocnemius may be reinforced by the lower 

 part of this muscle. — The Soleus arises from the head of the 

 fibula only, by a musculo-tendinous origin. It is fusiform, much 

 thicker, and in every way more robust than the Gastrocnemius, 

 and joins the tendo-Achillis six lines above the tuber calcis. The 

 Soleus is fleshy throughout and does not receive any slip of the 

 Biceps Flexor. — The nerve supply of the Gastrocnemius is from 

 the sciatic. The Soleus also is supplied by a branch of the sciatic, 

 passing between the Plantaris and the external head. 



Plantai'is. — Fusing as it does with the outer head of the Gastroc- 

 nemius, the Plantaris can be traced with scarcel}' any artificial 

 dissection to the Sesamoid bone in the outer head of the Gastroc- 

 nemius. The surface of contact between the Plantaris and the 

 Gastrocnemius is fibrous throughout. This is seen to be difterent 

 from the arrangement in Felis, in which animal the Plantaris 

 arises in part from the fascia of the leg. The Plantaris tendon 

 becomes superficial to the outer side of the tendo-Achillis, passes 

 over the calcaneum as a broad aponeurosis, from the distal end 

 of which, on the plantar surface of the foot, the Flexor Brevis 

 Digitorum arises. The motion between the Plantaris and the 

 Flexor Brevis Digitorum is pronounced medianl}' but absent 

 laterall}'. The Plantaris may thus be said to be inserted into the 

 calcaneum on its lateral surface, and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum 

 to arise from the same surface. On the median aspect, however, 

 the two muscles are continuous with one another through inter- 

 mediate fibrous tissue. It is supplied by the sciatic nerve. 



Poplileus arises from a shallow pit on the lateral surface of the 

 external condyle b}' a ligament-like tendon, that passes in a groove 

 horizontally backward to the tibia. The muscular fibres are 

 arranged in a thin sheet and are inserted into the tibia for its 

 upper third. The proximal edge of the muscle is horizontal and 

 in the same line with the tendon of origin. The distal edge is 

 oblique and slightly overlaps the fiiscia covering the Flexor 

 Longus Pollicis. The nerve supply is from the sciatic. 



Flexor Longus Digitorum arises from the proximal half of the 

 posterior surface of the tibia, and from the stout fascia lying on 

 the posterior aspect of the muscle. The very stout, broad tendon 

 formed at the middle of the leg. lies in a groove behind the inter- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



nal malleolus in company with the small Tibialis Posticus, and 

 is inserted on the median side of the conjoined tendon at the 

 tarso-metatarsal line. It receives all the fibres of the Musculus 

 Accessorius. 



Musculus Accessorius arises from the lateral aspect of the cal- 

 caneum, and is inserted on the median half of the conjoined 

 tendon. 



Flexor Longus Pollicis arises from the proximal two-thirds of 

 the posterior surface of the shaft of the fibula, and by nearly as 

 long a surface from the tibia. The fibres of the tendon can be 

 traced nearl}- to the head of the fibula but become free onh' 

 at the level of the ankle. The tendon lies in the deep recess 

 between the tibia and the fibula, in the pronounced groove on 

 the posterior border of the astragalus, as well as in the depres- 

 sion beneath the sustentaculum tali to unite with the conjoined 

 tendon at its lateral half. The conjoined tendon splits into five 

 phalangeal slips, one for each of the five toes — each tendon being 

 inserted into the plantar tubercle of the terminal phalanx. 



Lumbricales. — These are three in number and are supplied to 

 the second, third and fourth toes. The muscle for the first 

 toe arises from the tendon of the long flexor of the second, 

 that for the second from the tendon of the third toe, and that for 

 the third from the tendon of the fourth toe. These slips are 

 inserted on the sheath of the flexor tendons, which cannot be 

 separated from the tendon of insertion of the Extensor Longus 

 Digitorum. 



Tibialis Posticus arises from the proximal ends of both the tibia 

 and the flbula. It passes downward parallel to and in part concealed 

 by the Flexor Longus Digitorum, in company with the tendon of 

 which it enters a sheath behind the internal malleolus. It is 

 inserted into the scaphoid bone. The posterior tibial group of 

 muscles receives its nerves from the internal popliteal nerve as it 

 passes between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. 



Peroneus Longus arises tendinousl}' from the lateral surface of 

 the head of the fibula, by a head that is slightly narrowei" than 

 the belly. It becomes tendinous at the middle third of the leg, 

 thence passes through a separate sheath over the external malleolus, 

 it lies in a groove on the calcaneum beneath the sustentaculum 

 tali and is inserted into the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. 



Peroneus Brevis arises broad and fleshj' from the posterior 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



surface of the fibula at its middle third. Its muscular fibres pass 

 down as far as the external malleolus with the tendon, which is twice 

 as broad as that of the Peroneus Longus and is inserted into the 

 base of the dorsal surface of the fifth metatarsal bone. A slip from 

 the tendon just before the insertion is continuous with the dorsal 

 aponeurosis l3nng beneath the Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Traction 

 on this sheet slightlj' extends the toes, a function best seen along 

 the lateral border of the foot, — The nerve-supply is by a branch of 

 the anterior tibial which extends nearly the entire length of this 

 muscle. 



Peroneus Tertius arises at the proximal third of the fibula by 

 oblique, delicate, flesh}- fibres. The tendon lies in the same groove 

 on the posterior aspect of the external malleolus with that of the 

 Peroneus Brevis. It is inserted with the Extensor Brevis Digito- 

 rum at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. 



Tibialis Anticus arises from the outer tibial tuberosity' and the 

 tibial tubercle from the anterior tibial crest at its upper third, and 

 from the fascia of the leg. The muscle becomes tendinous at the 

 lower fourth of the shaft of the tibia, and is inserted into the 

 base of the first metatarsal bone. In some subjects a slip arises 

 sepai-ately from the interosseous membrane. The muscle receives 

 its nerve-suppl}' from the anterior tibial. 



Extensor Longus Digitorum arises by a small narrow tendon 

 from a pit on the external condj-le of the femur above that for 

 the Popliteus. The tendon passes downward parallel with the 

 external lateral ligament, and beneath the fascial insertion of the 

 Biceps Flexor Cruris, thence lying in a smooth groove between 

 the head of the fibula and the outer tibial tuberosity it is con- 

 tinuous with the narrow thong of muscular fibre constituting the 

 body of the muscle. The tendons of insertion are formed at the 

 lower third of the tibia, and form a close bundle of rounded cords, 

 that descend to the ankle, at which point they pass through a special 

 loop of the annular ligament to be displa^-ed in a tendon-centre as 

 flat, mutually-supporting bands on the medio-dorsal aspect of the 

 foot. From the distal border of this centre, flat tendons pass to 

 the second and to the fifth toes. The muscle receives its nerves 

 from the anterior tibial at the proximal end. 



Extensor Brevis Digitorum arises from the outer surface of 

 the calcaneum and the loop of annular ligament for the last-named 

 muscle. A broad, tendinous expanse, aponeurotic in structure, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



furnishes the short, broad tendons of insertion (l^ing beneath those 

 of the long flexor) into the toes from the second to the fourth. 

 It is joined hy the Peroneus Tertius. 



Extensor Longus PoUicis. — This was found in one subject only. 

 It arises from the fibula at its upper third. 



The intrinsic muscles of the pes embrace the following : 



Flexor Brevis Digitorum. — This flat, muscular sheet arises from 

 the intersection between it and the Plantaris, as this structure 

 underlies the calcaneum. (See the account of the Plantaris.) At 

 the proximal half the muscle is uniformly fleshy. It splits into 

 four slender fascicles. In some specimens the fascicle to the 

 second toe is given ofl" a little higher than the other§ at the distal 

 half 



Opposite to the metatarso-phalangeal joints, from the second to 

 the fifth, each of the four delicate tendons enters the sheath in 

 common with the corresponding tendons of the Flexor Longus 

 Digitorum and by splitting embraces the last-named tendons. 



The ends of each split tendon are inserted on the second 

 phalanx. Passing between the tendons of the short and the lono- 

 flexors are three muscular slips. They arise from the plantar 

 surface of the conjoined tendon. They are inserted respectively 

 into the tendon of the first, second, and third toes.^ 



The Flexor Brevis PoUicis is represented by two distinct 

 muscles each ending in a sesamoid. The Adductor PoUicis is 

 inserted half waj- up the lateral border of the second phalanx. 

 According to the terminology of human anatomj^, the followino- 

 would be the arrangement of the Dorsal and Plantar Interossei 

 muscles : — 



The first and second Dorsal Interossei are united at the middle 

 by two stout fasciculi. The third Dorsal Interosseous unites 

 with the first Palmar at the distal half of the third metatarsal 

 bone. The fourth Dorsal Interosseous is similarly fused with the 

 second Palmar Interosseous. The third Palmar Interosseous is 

 absent. A small oblique muscle ha^•ing relations to the second 

 toe similar to those entertained by the Adductor PoUicis to the 

 first, is inserted upon the first phalanx of the second toe. 



' The arrangement of fibres passing from the short to the long flexor of 

 the toes has received special attention from E, Schulze, (Zeitschr. fiir 

 wissen. Zool., xvii, 1867, 1) who has figured them as they exist in the dog. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Studying these muscles without reference to human anatomy, 

 the arrangement is simple, and the terminology herewith employed 

 much preferable, in my judgment, to that in the foregoing section. 

 Five Metatarso-Phalangeal Flexors are present in the foot of 

 the Procyon. The least differentiated of these is seen in the 

 third muscle of the series. This muscle remains unspecialized as 

 far as the proximal third of the third metatarsal bone. It then 

 divides into two stout fasciculi, each of which goes to the sesamoid 

 bone of its own side, Procyon, as Felis, possesses a pair of 

 sesamoid bones to each metatarso-phalangeal joint. — The fourth 

 Metatarso-Phalangeal Flexor is essentially the same in plan as is 

 the third.— That of the second toe, however, exhibits almost com- 

 plete longitudinal cleavage, two short oblique bands alone uniting 

 the now almost distinct muscles. The lateral half of the muscle 

 arises from the sheath of the Peroneus Longus muscle, the median 

 half arising from the imder surface of the first cuneiform in 

 common with the lateral half of the first Metatarso-Phalangeal 

 Flexor. The muscle last named is highly specialized, the two 

 halves being distinct throughout, but for a small oblique fascicle 

 at the proximal end of the two muscles, the median arising as 

 above indicated and the lateral from a supernumerary ossicle 

 lying on the plantar aspect of the third cuneiform bone. — The fifth 

 Metatarso-Phalangeal Flexor is, like the first, highly specialized 

 and composed of two non-communicating slips, both of which 

 arise from a supernumerary ossicle in the sheath of the Peroneus 

 Longus. 



The median portion of the same sheath sends distally three 

 radiated fasciculi. The median is homologous with the Adductor 

 Pollicis, the remaining two are functionally adductors to the 

 second and fifth toes respectively. 



Opponent Pollicis Under this heading is appropriately in- 

 cluded a stout muscular fasciculus passing from the under surface 

 of the astragalus and inserted into the base of the first metatarsal 

 bone. 



According to the classification of the intrinsic muscles of the 

 foot, proposed by D. L. Cunningham (Journ. Anat. and Physiol., 

 xiii, 1879, 1), by which palmar adductors, dorsal adductors and 

 intermediate flexors are identified, the muscles in Procyon exhibit 

 well-developed palmar adductors and intermediate flexors, while 

 the dorsal adductors are rudimentary or absent. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Concluding Remarks. — The tendencj' for certain muscles, as the 

 Gluteus Medius, the Semimembranosus, the Biceps Cubiti, the 

 Triceps, and the Masseter to undergo partial plana! cleavage, i. e., 

 to form distinct laminre at one part, while but a single lamina, 

 embracing the entire thickness of the muscle, at another, indicates 

 that such muscles are imperfectly differentiated, but are A'et 

 sufflcientl}^ differentiated to receive nerve-supply from separate 

 sources. 



In the process by which a muscle-sheet is changed into a muscle- 

 thong or " cord " (premising such a process ever to take place), 

 the sheet is folded once upon itself. The two halves of the sheet 

 constitute the lamina?. The space between becomes the inter- 

 laminate space, and receives the nerves. This retention of a 

 muscle-thong with the laminae and interlaminate space as seen 

 in many muscles of Procyon would indicate a lower type of 

 muscle than any seen in Felis, in which genus the tendency exists 

 for the interlaminate space to "become obliterated by the fusion of 

 the laminffi. The nerve, however, always enters the muscle at the 

 position of the lines of fusion. 



While the changes witnessed in a sheet of muscle undergoing 

 longitudinal cleavage are included under the head of progressive 

 development (as is witnessed in the evolution of special slips from 

 the Panniculus Carnosus in the formation of the muscles of the 

 auricle and of the face ; and while similar changes are kno\\Ti to 

 occur by which the great vertebro- costal masses send off partially 

 distinct fascicles to various portions of the trunk), those witnessed 

 in the limbs by which distinct lamina? in an early form undergo 

 fusion, and thereby become complex in a later form, are to be 

 included under the same general head. In that variety of devel- 

 opment b}" which a single muscle is converted into many muscles 

 by a process of splitting, the portions thereby formed can reunite 

 by a process of splicing. The splitting is carried as far in Felis 

 as in Frocyon, but the splicing process is carried farther in Felis. 

 The number of nerves was found to be subject to considerable 

 variation. Muscles of low degree of specialization such as the 

 Latissimus Dorsi, Biceps Flexor and Semimembranosus were 

 found richer in nerves than highly specialized muscles such as the 

 Tibialis Anticus and the Supinator Longus. Between Felis and 

 Procyon marked contrasts were presented between muscles of 

 the same name — the lowlj^ specialized muscles in all instances 




144 BROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



receiving more nerves in Procyon than in Felis. The number of 

 nerves diminish as a laminated muscle in Procyon becomes highly 

 fused in Felis. This was well exhibited in the instance of the 

 Biceps Cubiti. 



Under the head of muscle-variations it has been seen that many 

 muscles in Procyon correspond to abnormal muscles in man. 

 Some of these have been noted in the text. It is equally instruc- 

 tive to note many that are identical with the human muscles, such, 

 for example, as the rotators of the femur. Other muscles in 

 Procyon appear to be beyond the limits of variation of human 

 myolog}^ Among the latter group may be named the continuit}' 

 of the Plantaris and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum, the accession 

 from the Panniculus to the Pectoralis,and the fusion between the 

 Plexor Longus Pollicis Pedis and the Flexor Longus Digitorum 

 Pedis. 




1882. j natural sciences op philadelphia. 145 



May 23. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chtiir. 



Forty-four persons present. 



On Bacillus anthracis. — Prof. Leidy stated that Dr. Robert 

 Gladfelter, veterinar}' surgeon, had submitted to his examination 

 a bottle of l)lood from a cow. The animal, apparently well on 

 "Wednesday, May 10th, and milked the same evening, died the 

 next morning. The cause Avas not clear but was suspected to be 

 the result of anthrax, charbon, or splenic fever. During the past 

 year a number of cows in the same herd, had died in a similar 

 manner, in Salem Co., N. J. A post-mortem examination was 

 made the following da}- ; and the abdominal viscera were found 

 much conjested ; especially the spleen, which was gorged with 

 blood. The specimen of blood, obtained from the spleen was 

 examined the next day, Friday. It teemed with Bacteria, the 

 peculiar form. Bacillus anthracis^ which is now viewed by most 

 competent authorities as the cause of the frightful affection known 

 as anthrax or splenic fever. The Bacilli were actually more 

 numerous than the blood corpuscles, which appeared unchanged. 

 The Bacilli were completely motionless ; straight, bent or zigzag 

 filaments, in the latter condition in pairs or more segments. They 

 measured from 0.006 to 0.042 mm. in length ; usually from 0.012 

 to 0.03 mm. Kept for some days in the blood the filaments 

 underwent division into little chains in two, three, or more dumb- 

 bells, which measure about 0.005 mm., or into isolated micrococci- 

 like particles about 0.0015 mm. Many however of the filaments 

 did not resolve themselves into these minute particles, but appeared 

 onlj^ to grow in length and divide into segments of about 0.012 

 mm. in length. 



On Enchytrseus^ Distichojms and their parasites. — Prof. Leidy 

 remarked that occasionally in lifting a flower-pot or in stirring the 

 earth within, attention is sometimes attracted by the sudden 

 wriggling of a little white worm disturbed from its rest. In the 

 Archiv fiir Anatomic, 1837, Henle has given an elaborate descrip- 

 tion of the worm and named it Enchytrseus in reference to its 

 familliar habitation. The little pot worm is common in our 

 vicinity, especially in damp forests under decaying leaves and 

 timber. It was first noticed in 1173 from Denmark b}' 0. F. 

 Miiller, and in 1880 from Greenland b}' Fabricius. It has also 

 been observed in France and German}^ ; and therefore the little 

 worm appears to extend over the northern parts of Europe and 

 America. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882, 



The same -worm I have found in the meadows of Atlantic City, 

 New Jersey, in the usual haunts of Melampus hidentatus and 

 Orchestia agilis. In mature specimens, about three-fourths of an 

 inch in length, the girdle is well produced, and the body has ten 

 setigerous segments in advance of it and about fortj^-five behind 

 it. The short pointed setapeds in four longitudinal rows, are in 

 fascicles of three or four to each, in advance of the girdle and two 

 or three to each behind it. 



In .the Enchytrteus of our forests I have repeatedly observed 

 an infusorial parasite, occupying the body cavit}', sometimes in 

 considerable numbers, mingled with the normal discoid corpuscles. 

 I propose to name it Anoplophrya modesta. In the Ench3'trfeus 

 of the meadows of Atlantic Cit}^ I observed a different infusorian, 

 occupying the same cavity, remarkable for its great proportionate 

 length. This I propose to name Anoplo2:)hrija funiculus. 



Wishing to ascertain whether the latter did not likewise infest 

 the Enchytraeus of our neighboring forests I recently collected a 

 number of little worms at Media, Del., Co., These I obtained 

 from beneath a stone lying in m}^ path to Swarthmore College. 

 They appeai'cd to be robust specimens of Enchyfreeus vermicu- 

 laris, for which I took them to be. Investigation at home proved 

 them to be different and generically distinct from previous known 

 forms. The worms possess but two rows of setapeds, instead of 

 four as in most others of the famil}'. Hoffmeister and Gruby 

 described the genus PhreoryctsB as having onlj^ two rows of 

 setapeds, but Leydig has shown this to be an error. In view of 

 the error I carefully repeated rav examination of the little worms 

 from Media, and am convinced that tliej' possess two rows of 

 setapeds, while in Enchytrseus I alwa3^s found four. So much do 

 the former otherwise resemble the latter that it would appear as 

 if they formed a genus directly evolved from Enchytrseus merely 

 by the suppression of a pair of the four rows of setapeds. 



The new genus presents the following characters and may be 

 indicated by the accompanying name. 



DiSTiCHOPUS. Form and color as in Enchytrseus ; with a well 

 produced girdle. Setapeds in a single row on each side ventrally, 

 in divergent fascicles of four in advance of the girdle and of three 

 behind it. 



DiSTTCHOPrs siLVESTRis. Bod}' cylindrical, white, translucent, 

 with a well pi-oduced girdle of whiter color. Upper lip short 

 conical blunt ; anal segment thicker than the penultimate, brownish 

 and punctate ; anus quinquiradiate. Ten setigerous segments in 

 advance of the girdle, with fascicles of usually three or four seta- 

 peds ; fifty-five setigerous segments behind the girdle, with usually 

 two or three setapeds. Oral and anal segments without setapeds. 

 Setapeds shorter and stouter than in Enchytrseus vermiculai'is, 

 curved at the root, swollen at the middle, and straight towards 

 the point. Length from nine to fifteen lines. 



I observed no infusorian in Distichopus^ but in most of those 

 examined there were found within the intestine minute Gregarines 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



14T 



Body 



Monocystis 



mitis, 333 



diam. 



allied to the Monocystis of the earth worms, Lumbricus. This 

 parasite was perfect!}^ quiescent and was especially remarkable 

 from its frequently containing a variable number of curved 

 elliptical bodies, which I suspect to be spores. Viewing it as a 

 species of Monocystis it maj' thus be briefly characterized 



MoNOCYSTis MITTS. Greqavina Enchyfreei? Kolliker, 

 fusiform, tapering posteriorly and usually acute, 

 anteriorly obtuse or produced into a short mammilla ; 

 contents of the usual granular protoplasm as in gre- 

 garines, with a central spherical nucleus and nucleolus. 

 Size ranging from .03 mm. to .12 mm. in length. In the 

 smallest individuals the nucleus was indistinct and in 

 some appeared to be absent. The larger ones mostlj^ 

 contained what I supposed to be spores. These are 

 curved elliptical bodies .015 mm. long by .0045 mm. 

 wide, and were collected in a group of usuallj^ two or 

 three to seven or eight, sometimes in advance of the 

 nucleus, and sometimes i)ehind it. 



The two Anoplophr^^a above indicated have the follow 

 ing characters. 



Anoplophrya modesta. Leucophrys. Jour. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1850, 

 49, pi. 2, fig. IT. Elongated elliptical, anteriorly 

 rounded , posteriori}'- somewhat truncated, usuall}" from 

 three to five times the length of the breath ; nucleus 

 axial, cylindrical, straight, extending about two-thirds 

 the length of the bod}^ ; contractile vesicles variable 

 innumberand usually' in two longitudinal rows. Length 

 from .048 to .12 mm.; breadth .018 to .024 mm. In 

 state of transverse division, the pairs range from .054 

 to .15 mm. in length. Common and numerous in the 

 body cavity of Enclxytrseus vermicularis. 



Anoplophrya funiculus. Long, narrow and ulna-like in shape, 

 from twent}' to thirty times the length of the 

 breadth ; anterior extremity slightl}- wider 

 and very obliquely truncated and slightl}^ de- 

 pressed; posterior extremit}' bluntly rounded. 

 Nucleus axial, bristle-like, appearing as a 

 double continued line reaching from the pos- 

 terior end of the bod}' and tapering to a single 

 line in the posterior part of the same. Con- 

 tractile vesicles minute, in two rows, variable 

 in size and usually occupying the posterior 

 part of the bod}'. Length 0.42 mm. to 0.6 

 mm. by 0.018 to 0,024 mm. wide. Young 

 individuals 0.15 mm. long by 0.024 wide, were 

 tapering in front and obtuse while they were 

 wider and rounded behind. Inhabiting the 

 body cavity of Enchytrseus vermicularis A.ftinicuius,i76ciiam 

 from the meadows of the Atlantic coast of New Jersey. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



In an earth worm, Lumhricus, species undetermined and 

 occurring under logs, in the forests in the vicinitj' of Philadelphia, 

 I detected another species of the above which may be distinguished 

 as follows. 



Anoplophyra melo. Oval or ovoid, scarcely twice 

 the length of the breadth, with the narrower pole 

 miicronate ; nucleus axial, cylindrical, sigmoid, about 

 two-thirds the length of the body ; contractile vesicles 

 usually one, or two, or none, large.' Length 0.048 mm. 

 to 0.08 mm., breadth 0.032 to 0.04 mm. Pairs in 

 state of transverse division 0.08 by 0.036 mm. to 

 0.084 bv 0.04 mm. Inhabiting the body cavity of 



A. melo, -r 7 • a J J 



250 diani. Lu muricus { 



The Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D., was elected Vice-President and 

 Jacob Binder was elected Curator to fill vacancies caused hy the 

 death of Wm. S. Yaux. 



Thomas A. Robinson was elected a member of the Council, to 

 fill the vacancy caused by the election of the Rev. Dr. McCook to 

 the Yice-Presidenc3^ 



May 30. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The Yelloic Ant with its Jtocks of Aphis and Coccus. — Prof. 

 Leidy stated that since he had made a communication, published 

 in the Proceedings of April 10th, 18TT, on the habits of the Yellow 

 Ant, from time to time, in seeking for other animals, he had 

 incidentally learned that the species is not only a common one of 

 our vicinity, but also that it was habitual with the ant to care for 

 the same two species of Aphis and Coccus originall}- noticed in 

 company with it. The ant workers, of the species Lasius interjectus, 

 are of a uniform bright amber color, shining and hair}', and 

 measure about 'dh millemetres long.^ The Aphis is white or pale 

 yellowish and covered with a white waxy secretion, has brownish 

 legs and proboscis, no honey tubes, and is about 2i mm. long and 

 2 mm. wide. The Coccus is red with some whitish wax}- secre- 

 tion and is from three-fourths to one millcmetre and one-half in 

 length. 



On the third of May, near Swarthmore College, Del. Co., a nest 

 of the yellow ants was observed beneath a flat stone, about one 



'In the original communication the ant was named Formica flava, but 

 the Rev. Dr. McCook has determined it to be as here stated. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



foot b}^ seven inches broad. Collected on the under side of the 

 stone there were six distinct and closely crowded groups of the 

 white aphis and five of the red coccus. The largest aphis group 

 was three inches b}^ one inch ; the smallest one-half inch in diameter. 

 The largest coccus group was an inch and one-half by three-fourths 

 of an inch, and the smallest one-half an inch by one-fourth of an 

 inch. The ground beneath the stone was furrowed by tortuous 

 paths communicating with holes, through which ants were running ; 

 but most of these together with their flocks were adherent to the 

 under side of the stone, and occupied a space of about six inches 

 by four inches. 



Colorless Garnet and Tourmaline. — Prof. Leidy further exhib- 

 ited several brilliant cut specimens of garnet, from Hull, Quebec, 

 Canada. They are transparent, with a pale yellowish tint like an 

 off-colored diamond, and are flawless. Another specimen was a 

 handsome colorless brilliant of achroite or tourmaline from St. 

 Lawrence Co., Xew York. 



June 6. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the relative Ages and Classification of the 

 Post-Eocene Tertiary Deposits of the Atlantic Slope," by Angelo 

 Heilprin, was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Wm. B. Rogers, a Correspondent, and Samuel P. 

 Carpenter and Andrew C Craig, members, were announced. 



June 13. 

 Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



ON THE RELATIVE AGES AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE POST-EOCENE 

 TERTIARY DEPOSITS OF THE ATLANTIC SLOPE. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN, 



It maj^ appear surprising that for a period of nearl}^ fifty years 

 after tlie studj' of the American tertiary formations was first 

 systematical!}^ attempted, there should still have existed among 

 geologists widel}' varying views, not only relative to the positions 

 occupied by a considerable proportion of the deposits in question in 

 the geological scale, but also relative to the positions occupied by 

 these deposits in respect of each other. Yet such has been the 

 case, and it msty still be said to be the case at the present time. 

 The existence of post-eocene deposits along the Atlantic border 

 of the United States has long since been recognized, and their 

 contained fossil remains investigated and delineated b}^ paleon- 

 tologists of more or less ability. While the opinions expressed 

 by certain geologists as to the age of at least some of these 

 deposits may be said to have been substantially correct, j'et in 

 face of the conflicting views of other geologists of no less experi- 

 ence and prominence, which were set forth and maintained with a 

 decisiveness unwarranted b}' the character of the research upon 

 which they were based, it may be stated that the general outcome 

 of our knowledge respecting the stratigraphy of the deposits here 

 referred to is simply, that they hold a position somewhere inter- 

 mediate between the eocene and the post-pliocene series. 



The post-eocene tertiary deposits have their greatest develop- 

 ment, and have been most carefulh- investigated in the States of 

 Maryland, Virginia, North and South Carolina. In the frequentl}' 

 expressed opinion of Mr. Conrad they represented over the entire 

 area here indicated one geological formation, which that geologist 

 generallj' asserted to be the miocene,but which, at the same time, 

 he not unfrequentl}^ considered to be the equivalent of the British 

 crag, a formation now universally regarded as being of pliocene 

 age. 



No attempt appears to have been made to determine whether 

 the deposits were referable to one or several faunal horizons, and 

 the organic remains obtained from them were simply classified as 

 belonging to the miocene or "medial tertiarj-" period. The 

 circumstance that in North Carolina the proportion of recent to 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



extinct forms among the imbedded remains was greater than 

 in either Virginia or Mar3'land did not escape the notice of the 

 observer mentioned, but yet he did not hesitate to conclude (Kerr, 

 Geological Survey of North Carolina, Appendix, p. 25, 18T5) that 

 his miocene strata represented " one contemporaneous sea bottom, 

 holding living individuals of certain species throughout its entire 

 length, and which is characterized by some of its species closely 

 resembling existing ones, but many more having no affinit}- with 

 American shells." How many of the fossil species were by Mr. 

 Conrad considered to be identical with recent forms, it is impos- 

 sible to determine with anj' amount of exactitude, since the opinions 

 of that geologist bearing upon this point appear not to have been 

 fixed and to have fluctuated extensively within very In-ief intervals 

 of time. Thus, while in 1838 (Fossils of the Medial Tertiary 

 Formations, Introduction, p. x^i), it is asserted that of about 

 200 described species 19 (or less than 10 per cent.) are still 

 among the living fauna, in 1843 (Proc. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 

 i, p. 328), the number of recent forms is said to be 43 out of a total 

 of 328 described ; in 1862, on the other hand, referring to the 

 South Carolina deposits, where the percentage of recent forms had 

 been claimed to be greater than in either of the other three states, 

 Mr. Conrad maintains that " it mav' be that all the species are 

 extinct " (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, xiv, p. 559). It is further 

 stated (loc. cit.) that of the entire number, 581, of miocene shells 

 of the Atlantic stope, the number of forms that could be con- 

 sidered as doubtfully identical with recent species was not more 

 than 30 (or about 5 per cent). The faunal relations existing 

 between these so-called " medial tertiary " deposits and the 

 deposits of the British crag and the faluns of the Loire, at that 

 time supposed to be of nearl}^ equivalent age, were likewise pointed 

 out by Lyell (Jouru. Geol. Society, i, pp. 413 et. seq.)^ who also 

 did not fail to notice that in North Carolina " the recent species 

 bore a larger proportion than usual to the extinct " {loc. cit., p. 

 418). But this geologist, with his characteristic acuteness, further 

 remarks : " As, however, it would be very rash to assume that all 

 the miocene deposits of the United States, especially in countries 

 as far apart as Maiyland and South Carolina, wei'e of strietlj- con- 

 temporaneous origin, the fossil faunas of each region should be 

 carefully distinguished and considered separately " (p. 418). Of 

 14if species of mollusca gathered hy Mr. Lyell himself, and which 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



were subsequently studied with the assistance of Mr. Sowerby, 

 twenty-three (or 15^ per cent.) were considered to be identical 

 with recent foi'ms (p. 419). In the later editions of the " Elements 

 of Geology " (18tl, 18T4) the deposits in question are referred to 

 the pliocene and miocene, but no clearly defined statement is given 

 as to which belonged to the one age, and which to the other. 



From a more careful examination of the South Carolina region 

 than had previously been made, Mr. Tuome}- arrived at the con- 

 clusion (Geolog3^ of South Carolina, 1848), that the post-eocene 

 tertiary deposits of that State belonged to the pliocene, and not 

 to the miocene period, and that, consequently, they were not 

 contemporaneous with the deposits (in Virginia) which had now 

 been firmly recognized as typically representing the miocene of 

 the eastern United States. Of about 170 species of mollusca 

 contained by them, somewliat more than 80 (or nearl}- 50 per 

 cent.), were considered to be still living along the Atlantic and 

 Gulf coasts (op. cit., pp. 206-208). The pliocene age of these 

 deposits was maintained by Professors Tuomey and Holmes in 

 their " Pleiocene Fossils of South Carolina " (1857), where, also, 

 the deposits of North Carolina (miocene of Emmons, North Caro- 

 lina Geological Survey, 1858), are referred to the same period. 

 Of 203 species of described invertebrate remains (mollusks, 

 echinoderms, and corals), 85 (or 42 per cent.) were considered to 

 have living analogues (op. cit.^ Introduction, IX.) The deter- 

 minations of Tuomey and Holmes for both the South and North 

 Carolina deposits are accepted by Dana for the several editions 

 (1863, 1875, 1880) of his "Manual of Geology," where the 

 " Yorktown " period is made to include the post-eocene tertiary 

 beds of Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey, and Martha's Vinej'ard, 

 and the " Sumter " period, the similar beds of North and South 

 Carolina. In the " Check List of the Invertebrate Fossils of Nortli 

 America," prepai'ed (doubtless from data furnished by Conrad) 

 in 1864 by Mr. Meek, for the Smithsonian Institution (Miscella- 

 neous Collections, YII.), all the non-eocene or oligocene tertiar}'^ 

 fossils of the eastern United States are classed as belonging to 

 the miocene period; and finally, Prof. C. H. Hitchcock, in the 

 "Geological Map of the United States" (1881), accepts the 

 miocene determination for the age of the North and South Caro- 

 lina deposits, as likewise for the Virginia deposits, and those of 

 the peninsula of Maryland. The deposits of the Maryland east- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



shore, of Delaware, and the greater portion of those in New 

 Jersey which lie to the east and south of the " upper marl bed," 

 and whose age has not yet been satisfactorily made out, are 

 embraced within the pliocene (newer tertiary). 



In order to facilitate the solution of the stratigraphical problem 

 herein involved, the following faunal lists of the several States 

 (Maryland, Virginia, North and South Carolina) have been 

 prepared, and comparisons between them instituted. The utterly 

 desultory and careless manner in which a ver}^ considerable 

 portion of the paleontology of the region referred to has been 

 worked up, has rendered their preparation a matter of great 

 difficult}", and, indeed, if absolute accuracy is concerned, a well 

 nigh impossibilit}'. Not only have species been referred to 

 several distinct genera (and families), and catalogued under their 

 respective generic names independently of each other, but in 

 several instances the identical specimen has been figured and 

 redescribed under two or more forms ; species, again, originally 

 described from the deposits of one State, have been subsequently 

 credited (and to the exclusion of the first-named locality) to the 

 deposits of another State. Defective illustrations, and in very 

 man}"^ cases the absence of illustrations altogether, have still 

 further increased the difficulties, especially where the described 

 specimens themselves are wanting, or where through an unsatis- 

 factor}^ diagnosis their specific (or even generic I) identification 

 is rendered hopeless. Many of the forms here included are 

 therefore taken on faith, and many will doubtless have to be 

 excluded when fresh material is gathered in the field and 

 re-studied. Per contra^ many forms, seemingl}- doubtful, have 

 been excluded, which may possibly have to be reinstated on 

 further examination. Where it has been possible (and this has 

 been the case for most of the forms) the original descriptions of 

 the species have been referred to, and the localities of their occur- 

 rence there indicated have been those which have been noted ; 

 species said to occur in the deposits of several States have been 

 traced back for re-descriptions, or to papers bearing specially on 

 the paleontology of those States, but very little reliance being- 

 placed on general enumerations of distribution. By this means 

 it has been hoped to render the lists as complete and free from 

 error as could reasonably' be made possible, and while, doubtless, 

 various modifications will eventually have to be introduced, it is 



11 




154 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



confidently believed by the author that they so far represent the 

 true state of matters as to permit of positive conclusions being 

 dra"vm from them. 



The comparisons here instituted between the molluscan faunas 

 from the deposits of the several States have been made sepa- 

 rately for the lamellibranchiata and the gasteropoda ; and it 

 may be stated at the outset that the results obtained from the 

 independent examination of these two gro\ips of organisms have 

 been found singularly confirmative of each other. The letters 

 following the name of a species denote that the form is also found 

 in the State or States indicated by their respective characters ; 

 but it must be noted in the case of the gasteropoda, that compari- 

 sons, as indicated by such initial characters, are made between 

 certain States only, and, therefore, it is not to be concluded from 

 the examination of a single list, that a given form there designated 

 is necessarily wanting in a State whose characters are not indi- 

 cated in that list. Thus, in the South Carolina list only the North 

 Carolina species are specially indicated, although several of these 

 last, and others, are also found in the Virginia and Maryland 

 deposits ; so, again, in the Virginia list, no special reference is 

 made to the Maryland forms. 



Tables op the Post-Eocene 

 OF South Carolina 

 South 



Anomia ephippium, N. C. 



Placunomia plicata, 



Ostrea Virginiana, N. C. ; Va. ; M. 



" Ravenelliana, 



Chama corticosa, N. C; Va. 



" arcinella, N. C. 



" congregata, N. C.;Va. 

 Plicatula niai-giiiata, N. C ; Va. ; M. 

 Janira hemicycla, 



" affinis, 



Pecten Moitoni, N. C. 



" eboreus, N. C; Va. 



" comfarilis, N. C. 



" Peedeensis, N. C. 



" septemnarius, Va. ; M. 

 Mytilus indatus, 



" incrassatus, N. C. 



Tertiary Lamellibranchiata 

 AND North Carolina. 

 Carolina. 



Area bians = A. propatula? Va. 

 " incile, N. C.;Va.;M. 

 " costata, N. C. 



' ' centenaria, N. C. ; Va. ; M, 

 " rustica, 

 " lienosa, N. C. 



- A. Floridana, 

 " scalaris, N. C; Va. 



" incongrua, 

 " pexata, 



" plicatura, N. C. ; Va. ; M. 

 (A. improcera,) 

 (A. ajquicostata, ) 

 (A. transversa) 

 Pectunculus subovatus, 



N. C; Va.;M. 

 '« lentiformis, N. C.;Va.;M. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



155 



Pectunciilus passus, N. C; Va. 

 " quinquerugatus, N. C. 



" laevis, 



" aratus, N. C. 



" transversus, 



Yoldia limatula, N. C. ; Va. ; M. 

 Leda acuta, N. C. ; M. 



Nucula proxima, 



= N. obliqua, N. C. ; Va. ; M. 

 Lucina contracta, 



= L. filosa, N. C; Va.;M. 

 anodonta, N. C; Va.; M. 

 Peunsylvanica, N. C. 



radians, 



-= L. Antillarum, N. C. 

 squamosa, 



= L. pecten, N. C; Va. 

 cribiaria, M. 



divaricata, N. C. ; Va. ; M. 

 costata, 



crenulata, N. C; Va. ; M. 

 multilineata, N. C. 



trisulcata, 

 Cardium Caroliueuse, 



= C. magnum ? N. C. 



'' muricatum, N. C. 



'* subliueatum, N. C. ; Va. 



Cardita arata, N C .; Va. ; M. 



" granulata, N. C. ; Va. ; M. 



" tridentata, N. C. ? 



'* carinata, N. C. 



" perplana, N, C. 



" abbreviata, N. C. 



Astarte undulata, N. C. ; Va.; M. 



" bell a, N. C. 



Gouldia lunulata, N. C. ; Va. 



Crassatella undulata, N. C.;Va.;M. 



" Gibbesii, N. C. 



Cyrena densata, N. C.;Va. 



Rangia clathrodonta, N. C; Va. 



Venus Rileyi, N. C.;M. 



Venus mercenaria, N. C ; Va.? ; M.? 



" athleta, N. C. 



" tridacnoides, N. C; Va.; M. 



" fei-magna, Va.;M. ? 



Cytherea subnasuta, M. 



" reposta, N. C; Va. 



" Sayana, N.C.;Va.;M. 



" cribraiia, N. C. 



= C. punctulata? 



" cancellata, 



Circe metastria, N. C; Va. 



Artemis intermedia, N. C. 



Petricola pholadiformis, 



Tellina biplicata, N. C; M. 



•' alternata, N. C. 



" lusoria, N. (\;Va. 



" polita, N. C. 



Strigilla flexuosa, N. C. 



Psammocola Pleiocena, 



Cumingia tellinoides, Va. 



Amphidesma carinata, M. 



" equalis, N. C. 



" orbiculata, 



*♦ sequata, N. C. 



Donax variabilis, N. C. ? 



Standella fragilis, N. C. ? 



Mactra similis, N. C. 



- M. solidissima, 



" lateralis, N. C. 



" congesta, N. C.;Va.; 



Pandora trilineata, N. C. '?Va. 



Panopaea reflexa, N. C. ; Va.; M. 



Corbula cuneata, N. C; M. 



" inequale, Va. ; M. 



Pholadomya abrupta, N.C. ;Va. ;M. 



Solecurtus Caribaeus, N. C. 



Solen ensis, N. C; M. 



Pholas costata, N. C. ; Va.? M.? 



" oblongata, N. C. 



" Memmingeri, N. C. 



North Carolina. 



Anomia ephippium, S. C. 



Ostrea Virginiana, S. C.;Va. ;M. 

 Pecten comparilis, S. C. 



Pecten eboreus, S. C; Va. 



" Clintonius, Va.;M,. 



— P. Magellanicus. 




156 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



Pecten Peedeensis, S. C. 



" Mortoni, S. C. 



" Jeffersouius, Va.; M. 



" Madisonius, Va. ;M. 



" vicenarius. 



Plicatula margiuata, S. C. ; Va. ; M. 



Mjrtilus iucrassatus, S. C. 



Crenella, sp. ? 



Chama arcinella, S. C. 



" corticosa, S. C.;Va. 



" congregata, S. C.;Va. 



" striata. 

 Area lienosa, S. C. 



=: A. Floridana. 

 " limula, Va. 



'• scalaris, S. C; Va. 



" incile, S. C.;Va.;M. 



" centenaria, S. C; Va.; M. 

 " cajlata, S. C. 



" idonea, Va. ; M. 



" plicatiua, S. t'.:M.;Va. 



" brevidesma. 

 " subsinuata. 

 Pectunculus subovatus, 



S. C.;Va.;M. 

 " leiitiformis, 



S. C; Va.;M. 



" aratus, S. C. 



" triceuarius. 



" passu.s, S. C; Va. 



" Carolineiisis. 



" quinquei-ugatus, S. C. 



Leda acuta, S. C; M. 



Yoldia limatula, S. C; Va.; M. 



Nucula proxima, S. C; Va.; M. 



= N. obliqua. 

 Lucina Pennsylvanica, S. C. 



" contracta, S. C. ;Va. ;M. 



- L. nlosa. 

 " crenulata, S. C.;Va.;M. 

 " anodouta, S. C. :Va. ;M. 

 " radians, S. C. 



— L. Antillaiaim. 

 *' divaricata, S. C. ;Va.;M. 

 " multiliueata, S. C. 



" squamosa, S.('.;Va. 



^ L. pecteu. 



Loripes elevata. 

 Mysia Americana (acclinis). 

 Cardium Carolinense, S. C. 



= C. magnum? 

 " muricatum, S. C. 



" sublineatum, S. C'.;Va, 

 Glycocardia grauula. 

 Isocardia fracterua, Va. ;M. 



Cardita arata, S. C. ; Va. ; M. 



" perplana, S. C. 



" granulata, S. C. ; Va. ; M. 

 " abbreviata, S. C. 



" tridentata, S. C. 



" carinata, S. C. 



Pleiuomeris decemcostata. 

 Astarte bella, S. C. 



" clathra. 



" undulata, S. C.;Va.;M. 

 " curta. 

 Gouldia lunulata, S. C'.; Va. 



Crassatella undulata, 



S.C; Va.; M. 



" Gibbsii, S. C. 



" Marylandica. M. 



" melina, Va. ;M. 



Verticordia, sp.? 



Cyrena deusata, S. C. ; Va. 



Rangia clathrodonta, S. C; Va. 



Venus mercenaria, S. C. ; Va. ? M. ? 



" tridaenoides, S. C; Va.; M. 



" Rileyi, S. C; M. 



" alveata, Va.; M. 



" latilirata, Va. 



" athleta, S. C. 



Cytherea Sayana, S. C.;Va.;M. 



" reposta, S. C.^Va. 



" cribraria, S. C. 



- C. puuctulata? 



Circe metastria, S. C; Va. 



Artemis ti'ansversus. 



= A. intermedia ? S. C 

 " acetabulum, Va.; M. 



Telliua biplicata, S. C; M. 



" lusoria, S. C; Va. 



" alternata, S. C 



" polita, S. C. 



" arctata. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ]5t 



An examination of the preceding lists shows that of about 103 

 forms of lamellibranchiate mollusks found in the South Carolina 

 deposits no less than T4-T8 ''or about 74 per cent.) are also 

 found in the deposits of North Carolina ; these last being repre- 

 sented by an almost equal number (106) of specific forms, the 

 relative percentages of those common to the two States will 

 necessarily be nearly identical. We have thus j^^^^^^f^ facie 

 evidence that the deposits characterized by these remains belong 

 very nearly, if not absolutel}^, to the same geological horizon. On 

 the other hand, of the South Carolina forms at most only 43 (or 42 

 per cent.) are indicated as being found in Virginia, and a still 

 smaller number, .34 (or 33 per cent.) in Maryland. We have here, 

 therefore, strong evidence tending to prove that the deposits of 

 the last mentioned States represent a horizon different from those 

 indicated by the deposits of South Carolina. Similarl}^, of the 

 106 North Cai'olina species, at most only 48 (or 46 per cent.) are 

 common to Virginia, and 36 (or 34 per cent.) to Mar^dand, a 

 result that strikingly confirms the conclusion that has just been 

 drawn. 



Passing now to the examination of the Virginia lamellibranchi- 

 ates, we find, as is shown in the following table, a total of about 

 109 specific forms : 



Virginia. 



Anomia Ruf&ni. Pecten Virginianus. 



Ostrea sculpturata. " tricenarius. 



" disparilis. " Jeffersoniu.s, N. C; >I. 



" Virginiana, S. C; N. C; M. " dispalatus. 



" subfalcata. ' septemnarius, S. C; M. 



Pecten fraternus. " Clintonius, X. C; M. 



" Rogersi. = P. Magellanicus. 



" biformis. " eboreus, S. C; N. C. 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



Pecteu Madisonius, N. C; M. 



" decemnarius. 

 Plicatula marginata, 



S. C.;N. C.;M. 



Pema maxillata, M. 



Crenella aequilatera. 



Area centenaria, S. C; N. C; M. 



" incile, S. C.;N. C.;M. 



" idonea, N. C.;M. 



'• protracta, S. C? N. C.'.' 



= A. lienosa '? 

 •' scalaris, S. C.;N. C. 



" propatula I hians i 8. C. 



" limula, N. C. 



" plicatura, S. C.;N, C;M. 

 Pectunculus subovatus, 



S. C.;N.C.;M. 

 " tumulus. 



" passus, S. C.;N. C. 

 " lentiformis, 



S. C.;N. C.;M. 

 Yoldia limatula, S. C. : N. C. ; M. 

 Nucula obliqua, S. C. ; N. C; M. 



(N. proxima). 

 Lucina squamosa, S. C; N. C. 



^= L. pecten. 

 " crenulata, S. C.;N. C.;M. 

 " divaricata, S. C; N. C; M. 

 " anodonta, S.C.;N. C.;M. 

 " contracta, S.C.;N. C.;M. 



= L. filosa. 

 " Leana (lens). 

 " edentula. 

 Mysia Americana, N. C. 



KcUia laevis. 



" striata. 

 Eryciuella ovalis. 

 Sphairella subvexa. 

 Chama coiticosa, S. C; N. C. 



" congi-e<;ata, S. C; N. C, 

 Cardium Virginianum. 



" laqueatum, M. 



" sublineatuni, S. C.;N. ('. 



Isocardia fi-aterna, N. C; M. 



Cardita arata, S. C; N. C; M. 



" granulata, S. C; N. C; M. 



Astarte undulata, 1?. C; N. C; M. 



Astarte (Euloxa) latisulcata. 

 " arata 

 " Coheni. 

 " concentrica. 

 " lineolata. 

 " symmetrica. 

 Gouldia lunulata, S. C; N. C. 



Crassatella undulata, 



S, C.;N. C.;M. 



" meliua, N. C; M. 



Cyrena densata, S. C; N. C. 



Raugia clathrodonta S. C; N. C. 



Venus capax. 



" ascia? 



" latilirata. N. C. 



" mercenaria? S. C.;M.? 



" permagna, S.C.;M.? 



" alveata, N. C.;M. 



" Rileyi, S. C.;N. C.;M. 



" tridacnoides, 



S. C.;N. C.;M. 

 Circe metastria, S. C; N. C. 



Cytherea obovata. 



" reposta, S. C.;N. C. 



'• Sayana, S. C.;N. C.;M. 

 " densata. 

 " Virginica. 

 " cortinaria. 

 Artemis acetabulum, N. C; M. 

 Petricola centenaria, M. 



Tellina declivis. 

 " egena. 



" lusoria, S. (".;N. C. 



Abra subreflexa. 



Cumiugia tellinoides, S. C. 



Mactra modicella. 



" delumbis, M. 



" congesta, S. C; N. C. 



" triquetra. 

 Thracia transversa. 

 Anatina autiqua. 



Pandora crassidens, S. C. ; N. C. 

 ^= P. trilineata. 

 " aremosa. 



----- P. trilineata? 

 Mya producta, M. 



" corpulenta. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



159 



Note. — The following species described by H. C. Lea (Trans. Amer. 

 Philos. Soc. IX, new series), based upon young shells, or upon such as 

 barely admit of characterization, have been omitted from the enumeration : 

 Avicvla multangxila, Anatina tellinoides, Cytherea elevata, G. spherica, 

 Leda acutidens, L. carijiata, Modiola spinigera, Mya reflexa, Nucula 

 dolabella, N. diapliana, Ptinopea dubia, Petricola compressa, Pecten micro- 

 pleura, P. tenuis, PUcatula nidis, Paa/inmobia luciiioides, Teredo calamus. 



Of these 109 species, as has already been stated, at most only 

 43 (or 40 per cent.) are common to South Carolina, and about 

 48 (or 44 per cent.) to North Carolina. Compared with the 

 Maryland deposits the proportion of forms common to the two 

 states is found to be not very diflferent from the proportions just 

 indicated, or about 38 per cent, (about 41 species).' 



From the so-called " medial tertiary " of Maryland there have 

 thus far been described about 98 species of acephalous mollusks : — 



Maryland. — Newer Group. 



Cardium laqueatum, Va. 



Corbula cuneata, S. C; N. C; 



" idonea 



" inequalis, S. C.;Va. 



Crassatella Marylandica, N. C. 

 " undulata, S. C. ; N. C. ; Va. 

 Cytherea Sayana, S. C. ; N. C. ; Va. 

 " albaria, 

 " Marylandica, 

 " stamiuea, 

 Isocardia fratenia, N. C. ; Va. 



Leda acuta, S. C. ; N. C. 



" concentrica, 

 Yoldia Isevis, S. C. ; N. C. ; Va. 

 = Y. limatula, 



' The Maryland deposits, in the comparisons thus far, have for convenience 

 been taken to represent one geological horizon ; their division into two 

 groups, and the relations of each of these groups with the deposits of the 

 several other States, aie specially considered further on. 




160 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1882, 



Nucula proxima, S. C. ; N. 



= N. obliqua, 

 Lepton (?) mactroides, 

 Lucina anodonta, S. C. ; N. 



" subobliqua, 



*' cribraria, 



" contracta, S. C; N. 

 = L. filosa, 



" divaricata, S. C; N. 

 Mactra ponderosa. 



" fragosa, 



" subcuneata, 



" delumbis, 

 Mya producta, 

 Ostrea Virginica, S. C.;N. 

 Panopaea Americana, 



" reflexa, S. C.;N. 

 " porrecta, 

 Pecten Madisonius, N. 



" Jeffersonius, N. 



' ' Clintonius, N. 



" septemnarius, S. 



C; Va. 



C.;Va. 



S. C. 

 0. ; Va. 



C.;Va. 



Va. 



Va. 



C; Va. 



C.;Va. 



C; Va. 

 C.;Va. 

 C.;Va. 

 C.;Va. 



Pectunculus subovatus, 



S. C.;N. C; Va. 

 Petricola centenaria, Va. 



Plicatula marginata, 



S. C.;N.C.;Va. 

 Pholadoniya abnipta, 



S. C.;N. C.;Va. 

 Pholas ovalis. S. C. ? N. C. ? Va. ? 



= P. costata? 

 Saxicava nigosa, Va. 



Solen ensis, S. C; N. C. 



Tellina sequistriata, 



" biplicata, S. C. ; N. C. 



Venus tetrica, 



" permagna? S. C.;Va. 



" alveata, N. C.;Va. 



" inoceriformis, 

 " tridacnoides, S.C.;N.C.;Va. 

 " mercenaria?S.C.;N.C.;Va.? 

 " Rileyi, S. C; N. C; Va. 

 " cuneata. 



Maryland. — Older Group. 



Note. — Several species formerly ci'cdited to this State have been inten- 

 tionally omitted, there not being sufficient evidence to prove their 

 occurrence there. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Of these 98 about 34 (35 per cent.) are common to South Caro- 

 lina, 36 to Xorth Carolina (37 per cent.), and 41 to Virginia (42 

 per cent.). It has, however, been shown in a pre-sdous paper 

 (Heilprin, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sciences, 1880, pp. 20, et. seq.) that 

 the Maryland deposits actually represent two distinct horizons — 

 respectiveh" designated (temporarily) as the "newer " and "older " 

 groups — and, therefore, in order to have a proper appreciation of 

 the value of these proportions it will be necessary to consider the 

 two divisions in their relations to the several States separately. 



The deposits of the "newer" group, as will be seen from the 

 preceding enumeration, contain 66 species, and those of the " older " 

 group, 32 species. Of the foi'mer about 33 (50 per cent.), and a 

 nearly equal number, 32 (49 per cent.), are common respectively 

 to South and North Carolina, whereas of the latter, only 4 (13 per 

 cent.) are found in the first named State, and T (22 per cent.), in 

 the second.^ While the ''newer'' group shows a considerably 

 higher percentage of forms common to both South and North 

 Carolina than the deposits of the State treated as a whole, this 

 percentage is still less than that which might naturally be expected 

 to exist between formations (removed by about equal distances) 

 representing an equivalent age. The rational inference is, there- 

 fore, that the deposits in question ai'e not of contemporaneous 

 formation. Compared with the deposits of Virginia the fauna of 

 the "newer" group shows a somewhat more decided relation than 

 to the deposits of the States just mentioned, for we now find the 

 percentage of common forms increased to 56 (37 species i. But 

 even with this figure it would be rash to insist upon an equivalency 

 being proved. Nor is the relation of the "older" group to the 

 Virginian formation much more pronounced than it is to the North 

 Carolinian, but no special deductions from agreements or differ- 

 ences of percentages can be made in this instance, since the number 

 of both common and restricted forms is ver}^ limited. 



The conclusions reached from the examination thus far of the 

 lamellibranchiate fauna are : That the South and North Carolina 

 formations represent one and the same horizon, and one distinct 

 from the horizon or horizons indicated by the Virginia and 

 Maryland formations. It now remains to be determined what 



' These proportions strikingly corroborate the autlior's original assump- 

 tion of two distinct horizons, based upon an examination of Maryland 

 fossils alone. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



support this conclusion receives from the study of the fossil 

 faunas in their relation to the faunas of existing seas, and to 

 ascertain through the same means what relation the various 

 horizons bear toward each other. 



Species still living found fossil in the South Carolina 



DEPOSITS, 



Auomia ephippium (A. Conradi). 

 ? Placvmornia plicata. 

 Ostrea Virginiana. 

 Chama arcinella. 

 Area lienosa = A. Floridaua. 

 " incongiixa. 

 ? " pexata. 

 Yoldia limatula (Leda lievis). 

 Leda acuta. 



Nucula proxima — N. obliqua. 

 Lucina contracta ~ L. filosa. 

 " Pennsylvanica. 

 " radians = L. Antillarum. 

 " squamosa (L. speciosa) = L. pecten. 

 " divaricata (L. Conradi). 

 " crenulata. 

 ? Cardium Caroliuense ^ C. magnum ? 



" muricatum. 

 ? Cardita tridentata. 

 Gouldia lunulata. 

 Pandora trilineata. 

 Venus mercenaria. 

 ? Cythcrea crlbraria - C. puuctulata ? 

 Cytherea cancellata (C. cingenda). 

 Petricola pholadiforniis. 

 Tellina alternata. 

 " polita. 

 " lusoria. 

 Strigilla flexuosa. 

 Cumingia tellinoides. 

 Amphidesma (Abra) equalis. 



" (Seraele) orbiculata. 



? Douax variabilis. 

 Standella fragilis (Mactra oblongata). 



' The autlior desires to express his indebtedness to Mr. Gteorge W. 

 Tryon, Jr., through whose kind assistance most of the compaiisons with 

 recent forms were made. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Macti'a similis. :^ Hemimactra solidissima. 



" lateralis. 

 Salecurtus Caribseus (Siliquaria Carolinensis). 

 Solen ensis (S. directus). 

 Pholas costata (P. arcuata). 



" (Dactylina) oblongata (P. producta). 



Note. — About ten other species have been considered by various authors 

 to be equivalents of recent forms, but since their identification as such has 

 been at best but very doubtful, and in most cases strictly erroneous, they 

 have been omitted. Among these are : 



Luoina anodonta, at one time considered by Mr. Conrad to be identical with a 

 species living along the Florida coa=t. Although very closely resembling the L. 

 Fhiridfinn, it may, nevertheless, he readily distinguished from it by the greater thick- 

 ness of its shell, and the greater profundity of the lunules. 



Cardita arata. — This species differs, as stated by Conrad (Mioc. Foss., p. 12), 

 from the recent ('. Floridanu of the Florida coast in being proportionately longer and 

 broader behind, and in having the ribs crossed by "crowded subsquamose transverse 

 wrinkles," instead of " thick transverse tubercles." 



Cardita granulata. — According to Conrad (Mioc. Foss., p. 1?>), this shell "so 

 nearly resembles ''. horealix, a recent species of ihe eastern coast, that I think it will 

 prove to be the same, when more specimens of the latter shall be obtained for compari- 

 son." This identification, which was subsequently rejected by Conrad himself, has for 

 its support the very similar general appearance presented by the two shells in question, 

 but closer examination shows the <'. (/rannlata to be almost invariably a considerably 

 more eleva'ed (less rotund) form than the (\ horealix. 



Artemis intermedia. — Not readily confoundable with either the .1. rnncmirica 

 (Born) or A. Floriilnnn I Conr. ). 



Cytherea Sayana. — More produced (less rounded) than the recent C. lonce.ra. 



Rang^a clathrodonta. — More elongated than the recent R. cyrvnoidex. 



Admitting both the positive and somewhat doubtful forms from 

 the above list to be recent, then vpe have as a proportion to extinct 

 forms 40 to 103, or 39 per cent. ; or, if the six doubtful ones are 

 omitted, 34 to 103, or 33 per cent. 



The following recent species may be considered to occur in the 

 North Carolina deposits. 



Anomia ephippium. 



Ostrea Virginiana. 



Pecten Clintonius P. Magellanicus. 



Area lienosa A. Floridana. 



Leda acuta. 



Yoldia limatula fLeda laivis). 



Nucula proxima N. obliqua. 



Chama arcinella. 




K4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



? Cardita tridentata. 



Gouldia lunulata. 

 ? ( 'ardium Carolinense C. magnum ? 

 ** muricatum. 

 Lucina Pennsylvauica. 



" contracta L, filosa. 

 " crenulata. 



•' radians = L. Antillarum. 

 " divaricata (L. Conradi). 

 " squamosa (L. speciosa) = pecten. 

 Venus mercenaria. 

 ? Cytherea cribraria ^ ('. punctulata? 

 Tellina lusoria. 

 " alternata. 

 " polita. 

 Strigilla fiexnosa. 

 Mactra oblongata = Standella fragilis. 



' ' lateralis. 

 Mactra similis = Hemimactra solidissima. 

 Solen ensis, 



Solecurtus Caribseus (Siliquaria Carolinensis). 

 Pholas costata (P. arcviata). 

 Pholas (Dactylina) oblongata. 

 ? Pandora trilineata. 



Of the above 32, which constitute 30 per cent, of the lamelli- 

 hranchiate fauna of the State, all, with onh^ one exception — Pecten 

 Clintonius (Magellanic us) — also occur in the South Carolina 

 deposits. Although the percentage of recent forms in the Xorth 

 Carolina formations is thus shown to be considerably lower than 

 in South Carolina, yet in view of the very strong correspondence — 

 one might, indeed, say identity — existing between the two faunas 

 generally-, this variation can scarcely be taken to affect the con- 

 clusion already arrived at as to the contemporaneitj' of the two 

 formations. 



In Virginia (of 109 forms) the number of recent species, 

 including several doubtful ons, is reduced to 16, as exhibited in 

 the accompanying enumeration : 



Ostrea Virginiana. 



Pecten Clintonius P. Magellanicus. 

 ? Area protracta A. lienosa (et A. Floridana) ? 

 Yoldia limatula. 

 Nucula oV)liqua N. proxima. 

 Gouldia lunulata. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Lucina squamosa (L. speciosa) L. pecteu. 



" crenulata 



" divaiicata. 



" contracta lu filosa. 

 ? Venus mercenaria. 

 Tellina lusoria. 

 Cumiugia tellinoides. 

 Paudora crassideas P. trilineata. 

 Saxicava biliueata = S. nagosa. 

 '? Pholas acuminata P. costata '? 



The percentage (15) is here, therefore, brought down consider- 

 ably lower than in either of the preceding States, a circumstance 

 not only strikingly confirming the assumption of non-contempo- 

 raneity (as has already been drawn from comparisons made between 

 the different faunas themselves) in the deposits in question, but 

 equally proving that the Virginia deposits are anterior (older) in 

 date to those of both South and North Carolina. 



The number of recent species occuring in the Maryland deposits 

 taken as a whole (^, e., as embracing both the " newer '" and 

 "older" groups, and comprising consequently 98 specific forms 

 of acephalous mollusks) is somewhat less than in Virginia, namely 

 (including two or three doubtful forms), 1.3 : 



Leda acuta. 



Yoldia limatula (Leda lajvis). 

 Xucula proxima N. obliqua. 

 Lucina crenulata. 



" contracta L. filosa. 



" divaricata. 

 Ostrea Virginiaua. 



Pecten Clintonius = P. Magellanicus. 

 Panopea Americana.' 



' I have here provisionally included the Panopma Americanu among the 

 recent forms, although I am somewhat doubtful as to its right to a place 

 there. The shell certainly very greatly resembles that of the recent P. 

 Aldrotandi from the Mediterranean, from which, in fact, it appears to 

 differ only in the form of the posterior truncature, which in the recent 

 species carries up the hinge line to a higher level than in the fossil. While 

 the form of the American shell is very constant, that of the European is 

 stated to be very varying, and therefore the distinction pointed out maj- on 

 a closer examination between specimens be found to have no specific value. ♦ 

 By Searles Wood ("Monograph of the Crag MoUusca," ii, p. 283, 

 Palaeontogr. Soc. Reports i the P. Americana (and P. reflexa) is considered 

 identical witli the P. Fanjasii (more properly P. Menardi), a common 




166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



? Venus merceuaria. 



Solen ensis. 



Saxicava rugosa (S. bilineata). 

 ? Pholas ovalis - P. costata ? 



Of this number 12 are found in tlie deposits of tlie "newer" 

 group, and consequent!}' constitute about 18 per cent, of its lamelli- 

 branch fauna ; on the other hand, at most, only 2 occur in the 

 deposits of the " older " group. We have here, therefore, not only 

 a further corroboration of the existence in the State of two 

 distinct horizons, but what might almost be considered positive 

 proof that the upper Mar3'land formation ("newer" group), 

 occupies a horizon very nearly identical with that of the (or the 

 great bulk of the) Virginia formation, and one considerably lower 

 than that indicated by the South and North Carolina deposits, 

 despite the circumstance that the general relations existing 

 between the respective faunas in the two cases are not very 

 different. 



The following statement summarizes the results obtained from 

 the examination of the lamellibranch fauna : 

 Of about 103 South Carolina species — 



74-78 are found in Xorth Carolina = 74 per cent. 



43 are found in Virginia = 42 per cent. 



34 are found in Maryland = 33 per cent. 



34-40 are recent = 33-39 per cent. 

 Of about 106 North Carolina species — 



74-78 are found in South Carolina = 74 per cent. 



48 are found in Virginia == 40 per cent. 



36 are found in Maryland = 34 per cent. 



32 are recent = 30 per cent. 

 Of about 109 Virginia species — 



43 are found in South Carolina = 40 per cent. 



48 are found in North Carolina = 44 per cent. 



41 are found in Maryland = 38 per cent. 



16 are recent = 15 per cent. 



Eui'opean fossil, and one which had frequently been confounded with the 

 recent P. Aldrovnndi ; but the American species appears to be at least as 

 much related, if not more so, to the living form. The P. refiexa is stated 

 by Mayer (Catalo(/>/e SyKtemutiqne des Foss. des Terr. Tert., ii, pp. 25 and 

 42) to be living on the coast of New Zealand, and to be identical with the 

 P. Solandri of Gray ; tlie angulation on the posterior slope of the latter, 

 however, readily distinguishes the two. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



16T 



Of about 98 Maryland species — 



34 are found in South Carolina == 35 per cent. 



36 are found in North Carolina = 37 per cent. 

 41 are found in Virginia = 42 per cent. 



13 are recent = 13 per cent. 

 Of about 66 Marj-land " Newer" group species — 



33 are found in South Carolina = 50 per cent. 

 32 are found in North Carolina = 49 per cent. 



37 are found in Virginia = 56 per cent. 

 12 are recent =18 per cent. 



Of about 32 Maryland " Older" group species — 



4 are found in South Carolina = 13 per cent. 



7 are found in North Carolina = 22 per cent. 



8 are found in Virginia = 25 per cent. 

 2 are recent = 7 per cent. 



The examination of the gasteropod faunas of the several States, 

 as will be seen from the summary further on, very strongly con- 

 firms the results that have been obtained from the investigation 

 of the acephalous mollusks. 



The following enumeration exhibits the species that have been 

 described from the deposits of South and North Carolina. 



South Carolina. 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



[1882. 



Galeodia Hodgei, N. C 

 Hipponyx Biillii. 



Infundibulum centralis, N. C. 

 Littorina irrorata. 



Marginella limatula, N. C. 



" oliviformis, N. C. 



Mitra C'arolinensis, N. C. 

 Monodonta Kiawaliensis. 



Murex umbrifer, N. C. 



Natica heros, N. C. 



*' duplicata, N. C. 



" canrena, N. C. 

 *' Caroliniana. 



Nassa vibex, N. C. 



" trivittata, N. C. 



" obsoleta, N. C. 

 " (?) lunata. 



Obeliscus arenosa, N. C. 



Oliva literata, N. C. 



Plem-otoma lunata, N. C. 



Ptychosalpinx porcinum, N. C. 

 " multirugatum, N. C. 



Purpura tridentata. 

 Petaloconchus sculpturatus, 

 Ranella caudata, 

 Scalaria multistriata, 

 " clathra, 



= S. angulata. 

 Solarium perspectivuni. 

 Terebra Carolinensis, 



" unilineata. 

 Trivia pediculus, 

 Turritella striata. 

 " exaltata. 

 " Burdenii, 

 " Etiwaensis, 

 Trochus pliilantropus, 

 " armillatus. 

 " gemma. 

 Urosalpinx cinerea. 

 Voluta mutabilis, 



•• Trenholmii, 

 Vermetus auguina. 



North Carolina. 



Cancellaria Carolinensis. 



= C. reticulata, S. C. 

 Caecum annulatum. 

 Cerithium moniliferum. 

 " (Cerithiopsis) 

 annulatum. 

 Cerithium bicostatum. 

 Chemnitzia subulata. 

 Conus adversarius, S. C. 



" diluvianus, S C. 



Ci-ucibulum multilineatum, S. C. 

 " costatum, S. C, 



*' ramosum, S. C. 



" duraosum, S. C. 



Cypi-a;a Carolinensis, S. C 



Crepidula fornicata, S. C. 



" spinosa, S. C. 



= C. aculeata. 

 " plana, S. C. 



C. luiguiformis. 

 Carinorbis (Delphiuula) 

 quadricostata. 



Dentaliiim attenuatum, 

 = D. dentale. 

 " thallus, 

 Dolium octocostatus. 

 Ecphora quadricostata, 

 Eulima (?) la;vigata. 

 Erato laevis ? 

 Fasciolaria distans, 



= F. tulipa. 

 " elegans. 

 " Sparrow i. 

 " alternata. 

 " iiodulosa. 

 " acuta. 

 Fulgur carica, 

 • ' contrarius. 



= F. perversus, 

 " canaliculatus, 

 ? F. rugosu.s. 

 " Carolinensis. 

 = F. excavatus, 



N. C. 

 N. C. 



B.C. 

 B.C. 



s. c. 



B.C. 



S. C. 



B.C. 

 B.C. 



B. C. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



169 



A comparison of the two preceding tables shows, that of the 

 74 South Carolina forms no less than 52 (or 10 per cent.) are 

 common to the deposits of North Carolina, a proportion very 

 nearly identical with that which obtains in the case of the acepha- 

 lous moUusks (74 per cent.). This very close agreement leaves 

 but little, if any, room for doubt as to the contemporaneity of the 

 formations of the two States. In North Carolina the number of 

 specific forms described is considerably in excess of that from the 

 former State, and consequently, as must almost necessarily follow, 

 the percentage of common forms is here very materially reduced. 

 12 




no 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1882. 



Thus of 100 species — 4 of which are non-marine — only 52, as 

 above stated, also occur in South Carolina, or just 52 per cent. 

 It is but fair to presume, however, that were the number of species 

 described from South Carolina equal to that from North Carolina 

 the proportion of forms common to the two States while it would 

 not probably differ very materially from what we now find it in 

 the former State, would be considerabl}- raised for the latter. On 

 the other hand, just the reverse result presents itself when a com- 

 parison is made with the Virginia fauna, which comprises a far 

 greater number of species than is to be found in any other State : 



Virginia. 



Amycla reticulata. 

 Actseon (?) milium. 

 Adeorbis (Delphinula) costulata. 

 " " concava. 



(A. lipara). 

 ** " oblique-striata. 



Anguinella Virginiana. 

 Bela Daedalia. 

 Buccinum Tuomeyi. 



" frumentum. 

 Crepidula costata, S. C. 



" fomicata, S. C; N. C. 

 " spinosa, S. C. ; N. C. 

 " ponderosa. 

 " comucopiae. 



" cymbiformis. 

 Crucibulum costatum, S. C; N. C. 

 (Calyptrea pileolus). 

 " ramosum, S. C; N. C. 



" grande. 



Cemoiia oblonga. 

 Capulus higubris. 

 Cancellaria perspectiva. 

 " plagiostoma, 



Cerithium clavulus. 

 " curtum. 



Cerithiopsis annulatum, N. ('. 



Chiton transenna. 

 Cylichna cylindrica. 

 " Virginiana. 

 Chemnitzia (Pasithea) subula, N.C. 

 " " exarata. 



'* " eburnea. 



Dentalium tballus, S. C; N. C 

 " attPnuatum, S.C.; N.C 

 = D. dentale. 

 Delphinula trocbiformis. 



" (Carinorbis) areuosa. 



" lyra. 



Ecphora quadricostata, S.C.; N.C 

 Eulima (Pasithea) laevigata, N.C 

 " eborea. 

 " migrans. 

 Eulimella (Pasithea) ovulum. 



(E. diaphana). 

 Fasciolaria parvula. 



" rhomboidea, 



S. C.;N. C 

 = F. distans. 

 Fissurella redimicula, S. C. ; N. C 



" catilliformis. 

 Fulgur carica, S. C; N. C 



" canaliculatus, S. C.;N. C 



" incile (Conradi), S. 



" tritouis. 

 " fllosus. 

 " carinatus. 

 " maximus. 

 Fusus (Neptunea) exilis, 



S. C.;N. 

 ' ' stnjmosus. 

 ** (Neptunea) trossula. 

 Marginella liraatula, S. C; N. 

 ** perpusilla. 



" conulus. 



" exilis. 




1882.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



m 



Marginella ebumeola. 

 Mangelia Virginiana. 

 Menestho limnea. 

 Melampus (?) longidens. 

 Nassa trivittata, S. C; N. C. 



" impressa. 

 " (Tritia) altilis. 

 " bilix. 



" " laqueata. 



Natica duplicata, S. C. ; N. C. 



•' beros, S. C.;N. C. 



" aperta, N. C. 



(N. fragilis?). 

 " sphaerula, N. C. 



(N. percallosa?). 

 " perspectiva, 

 Niso lineata. 



Oliva canaliculata, N. C. 



" ancillariaeformis, N. C. 



** Carolinensis. 



= O. literata, S. C; N. C. 

 " eborea. 

 Obeliscus arenosa, S. C; N. C. 

 (Pyramidella suturalis^. 

 Odostomia f Actseon) granulatus. 

 • ' (?) globosus, 



" " turbinatus. 



" " angulatus. 



" " glans. 



" " sculptus. 



" " nitens. 



Patella acinaces. 

 Petaloconcbus sculpturatus, 



S. C.;N. C. 

 Pleurotoma lunata, S. C.;N. C. 

 " pyrenoides. 



" (Drillia) multisecta. 



" " arata. 



« «' bella. 



" ** distans. 



" " dissimilis. 



" " eburnea. 



'* " impressa. 



" (Surcula) engonata. 

 " " nodulifera. 



Pleurotoma (Surcula) tricenaria. 



" '* Virginiana. 



Pyramidella elaborata. 

 Ptychosalpinx porcinum, 



S. C.;N. C. 

 Rotella nana. 

 " subconica. 

 " carinata. 

 " lenticularis. 

 " umbilicata. 

 Scalaria clathra, S. C. ; N. 0. 



" = S. augulata. 

 " acicula. 

 " micropleura. 

 " microstoma 



(S. cornigera?). 

 " pachypleura. 

 " procera. 

 Solarium nupera. , 

 Trochus philanthropus, S.C; N.C. 

 " armillus. 

 ' ' conus. 

 " lens. 

 " torquatus. 

 " Rufflnii. 

 " bellus. 

 " labrosus. 

 " Mitchelii. 

 Turbo rusticus. 



" (Monilea) caperata. 

 Trophon tetricus. 

 Turritella variabilis. 

 " indenta. 

 " plebeia. 

 '' alticosta. 

 " flexionalis. 

 " terstriata. 

 " bipertita. 

 Trochita (Infundibulum) 



concentrica . 

 Triforis (Ceritliium) monilifera. 

 Urosalpinx cinerea. 

 Vermetus convolutus. 

 Voluta mutabilis, S. C. : N. C. 



Vivipara (Turbo) glaber. 



Note. — Several species described by IT. C. Lea (Amer. Philos. Trans., 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



uew ser., vol. ix), considered to have been founded on insufficiently deter- 

 mined characters, or on the immature forms of previously described species, 

 have been intentionally omitted. 



We find that of the 141 species here enumerated only about 26 

 are found in the deposits of South Carolina, which woiild give to 

 that State a comparatively low percentage of common forms (35), 

 and one considerably less than that (42) which was found to exist 

 when the acephalous mollusks were taken as the basis of com- 

 parison. Xor is the number of Virginia forms (31) occurring in 

 North Carolina much more numerous, and here, likewise, the per- 

 centage (31) is markedly lower than was found to be the case (46) 

 in the first method of comparison. Taking these various facts 

 together they are abundantly conclusive as to the correctness of 

 the inference drawn from the testimony of the lamellibranchs, that 

 the Virginia deposits represent a horizon different from that indi- 

 cated by the South and North Carolina formations. 



From the Maryland deposits taken as a whole, i. e., as com- 

 prising both the " newer " and " older " groups, there have thus 

 far been described about 105 species of gasteropodoiis mollusks; 

 of these, as will be seen from the following table, about 21 (20 per 

 cent.) also occur in South Carolina, and 26 (or 25 per cent.) in 

 Virginia. While the proportion of forms common to the two 

 States is thus shown to be very limited in either case, and decidedly 

 less than was found to exist among tlie lamellibranchs, there is yet 

 (as was also indicated in the lamellibranch comparisons) a slight 

 advantage in favor of Virginia. 



Maryland — Newer Group. 



Actseon ovoide?. Dentalium thalloides. 



" melanoides. " attenuatum, 



Bulla (?) acuminata. S. C; N. C. Va.; 



Cancellaria corbula. = D. dentale. 



" lunata. Ecphora quadricostata, 



" alternata. S. C; N. C; Va. 



Cassis (Semicassis) cselata. Fusus (Neptunea) parilis. 



Cnicibulum grande, Va. " " errans (rusticus). 



" tubiferum. " sulcosus. 



" costatum, " strumosus, \?k. 



S. C; N. C; Va. Fissurella alticosta. 



Conns diluvianus, S. C; N. C. " nassula. 



" Marylandicus. " redimicula, 



Columbella communis. S. C; N. C; Va. 



" avara, S. C. Fuluur ruifo-sus ? 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



173 



Fulgur coronatus. 

 ** canaliculatus, 



S. C.;N. C; Va. 

 *' tuberculatus. 

 " carica, S. C; N. C; Va. 

 " fusiformis. 

 " alveatus? 

 Ficus? (Pyrula) sulcosa. 

 Marginella denticulata. 

 Melanopsis (Bulliopsis) ovata. 



" Integra, Va.? 



" Marylandica. 

 Natica interna. 



« duplicata, S. C. ; N. C. ; Va. 

 " heros, S. C; N. C; Va. 

 " fragilis, K C.;Va. 



Nassa trivittata, S. C. ; N. C. ; Va. 

 " obsoleta, S. C.;N. C. 



" lunata, S. C. 



" quadrata. 

 " praerupta. 



" porcinum, S. C; Va. 



" arata. 

 Pleurotoma bicatenaria. 



" limatula, N. C 



" communis, N. C. 



" parva. 



" rotifera. 



Pleurotoma gracilis. 



" dissimilis, Va. 



Ranelia centrosa, S. C? N. C? 



== R. caudata ? 

 Scalaria clathra, S. C; N. C; Va. 

 = S. angulata. 

 '• expansa. 

 Terebra simplex. 

 " curvilineata. 

 " loxonema. 

 Trochns humilis. 

 " reclusus. 

 *' Bryanii. 

 Turbo (Mouilea) distans. 

 " " eborea. 



Tnrritella plebeia, Va. 



" variabilis, Va. 



" laqueata. 

 *' solitaria. 



" alticosta, Va. 



" octonaria. 

 Turbinella demissa. 

 Turbonilla perlaqueata. 

 Trophou teti-icus, Va. 



Typhis acuticostdta. 

 Urosalpinx cinerea, S. C; Va. 



Voluta mutabilis, S. C. ; N. C. ; Va. 

 ** solitaria. 



Maryland — Older Group. 



Buccinum ? protractum. 



" lienosum. 



Bulla subspissa. 

 Cancellaria biplicifera. 



" engonata. 



Crucibulum raraosum, 



S.C.;N. C; Va. 



" constrictum. 



Dentalium thalloides. 

 Fissurella Marylandica. 

 Fusus migrans. 



" (Neptunea) devexus. 

 Marginella perexigua. 

 Niso lineata, Va. 



Pleurotoma Marylandica. 

 " bellacrenata. 



" rugata. 



Scalaria pacbypleura, Va. 



Solarium trilineatum. 

 Sigaretus fragilis. 

 Trocbita(Infundibulum)perarmata. 

 Turritella indenta, Va. 



" exaltata, S. C. 



'* perlaqueata. 

 Trochus peralveatus. 

 Valvula iota. 



Voluta mutabilis, S. C; N. C; Va. 

 " solitaria. 



Taking each of the two Maryland divisions, already referred to, 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



by itself, we find that of the 21 forms occurring also in South 

 Carolina, 19 belong to the deposits of the " newer " group, which 

 comprise in all about 78 species ; the percentage of forms common 

 to the two formations — 25 — is thus considerably above that which 

 was found to obtain when the State formation was considered as 

 a whole. And the same increased percentage is determined when 

 the Virginia forms are considered. Of the 26 indicated in the 

 preceding enumeration, 22 belong to the "newer "group, of whose 

 fauna the}- consequently constitute 28 per cent. The 27 species 

 belonging to the " older " group have only 3 (or 10 per cent.) 

 common with South Carolina, and 5 (or 18 per cent.) common 

 with Virginia. In comparing the gasteropod faunas of the two 

 Maryland divisions with each other, we find that there are only 

 three species whose range embraces the deposits of both series. 

 From the preceding data it will be seen that very strong confirma- 

 tion is lent to the conclusions derived from the examination of 

 the lamellibranch fauna as to the non-contemporaneity of the South 

 Carolina (et conseq., North Carolina) deposits with those of Vir- 

 ginia and Maryland, and to the existence of two well-marked 

 faunal horizons in the last named State. Xo conclusive evidence 

 is, however, afforded relative to the position which the Virginia 

 and Maryland deposits hold in respect of each other ; for the 

 determination of this point, as well as for the determination of 

 the several horizons, testimon}^ must again be sought in the rela- 

 tions which the extinct faunas bear to the fauna of existing seas. 



Species still living found in the South Carolina deposits : 



Dentalium attenuatum =- D. deutale. 

 Crepidula fornicata. 



" spiuosa = C. aculeata. 

 " plana = C. unguiformis. 

 Natic heros (N. catenoidesi. 

 " duplicata. 

 " canrena (N. plicatella). 

 Littorina inorata (L. Carolinensis). 

 ? Solarium perspectiviim . 

 Scalai'ia multistriata. 



" clathrus = S. angulata. 

 Obeliscus areuosa. 

 Trivia pediculus. 

 Nassa vibex. 

 *' trivittata. 

 " oljsoleta. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Dolium galea. 



Columbella avara. 



Oliva literata (0. Carolinensis). 



Ranella (Bursa) caudata. 



Cancellaria reticulata (C. Carolinensis). 



Fulgur carica. 



" perversum (F. adversarium). 



" canaliculalum (F. canaliferum). 



" pyrum. 

 Urosalpinx cinerea (Peristeraia filicata). 

 Fasciolaria distans (F. rhomboidea) = F. tulipa. 



Note. — Three or foui- additional species, for several reasons here omitted, 

 may, on further examination, be found to be identical with recent forms. 



Thus out of a total number of "74 species about 21 are still found 

 living at the present day ; the percentage of recent to extinct 

 species — 37 — is therefore not very different from that which was 

 found to obtain among the acephalous mollusks. 



The following recent species may be considered to occur in 

 North Carolina : 



Dentalium attenuatum = D. dentale. 

 Crepidula fornicata. 



" spinosa = C. aculeata. 

 " plana = C. unguiformis. 

 Natica heros (N. catenoides). 



" duplicata. 

 Natica canrena (N. plicatella). 

 Scalaria multistriata. 



" clathrus = S. angulata. 

 Obeliscus arenosa. 

 Trivia pediculus. 

 Nassa vibex. 



" trivittata. 



'' obsoleta. 

 Olva literata (O. Carolinensis). 

 Ranella (Bursa) caudata. 

 Cancellaria reticulata (C. Carolinensis). 

 Fulgur carica. 



" perversum (F. contrarium). 



" canaliculatum. 



" pyrum (F. spirata). 

 Fasciolaria distans = F. tulipa. 



All of the above 22 species, which constitute 22 per cent, of the 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



gasteropod fauna of the State, are found also in South Carolina. 

 We have here, just as in the case of the lamellibranch fauna, a 

 decided decrease when compared with the last mentioned State in 

 the proportion of living forms, but yet, as before, the very well 

 marked correspondence or identity existing generally between the 

 two faunas would pi*eclude the supposition of the representation 

 by them of two distinct horizons. 



In Virginia and Marjdand the number of recent species is 

 considerably less than in either South or North Carolina, and the 

 proportion these bear to extinct forms is also very materially 

 reduced. Thus of about 141 Virginia species only 12 (or 8^ per 

 cent.) can be considered as being identical with living forms, 

 namely : 



Dentallum attenuatum = D. deutale. 

 Crepidiila fornicata. 



*' spinosa = C. aculeata. 

 Natica duplicata. 



" heros (N. catenoides). 

 Fulgur carica. 



" canaliculata. 

 O. Carolinensis = O. literata. 

 Scalaria clathra = S. angulata. 

 Nassa trivittata. 



Obeliscus arenosa (Pyramidella suturalis). 

 Urosalpinx cinerea. 



The number of recent species occurring in the Maryland 

 deposits is about equal to that from Virginia; but here, owing to 

 the limited extent of the fauna, the proportion to extinct forms is 

 considerably increased. It is a significant fact that all the recent 

 species belong to the "newer" group, and none to the "older. "^ 

 They are as follows : 



Colvimbella avara. 

 Fulgur carica. 



" canaliculata. 

 Urosalpinx cinerea. 

 Dentalium attenuatum = D. dentale. 

 Nassa trivittata. 

 " obsoleta. 

 Natica duplicata. 



" heros (N. catenoides). 

 Scalaria clathra = S. angulata. 

 ? Ranella centrosa = R. ( Bursa) caudata ? 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



The percentage of recent forms is here, therefore, brought up to 

 fourteen, or very nearly that (15), which obtains among the Vir- 

 ginia lamellibranchs, and 4 per cent, below that which was found 

 to characterize the lamellibranch fauna for the same group of 

 deposits. 



Summing up the results obtained from the examination of the 

 gasteropod fauna, we find tliat — 



Of about 74 South Carolina species — 



52 are found in North Carolina = 70 per cent, 



26 are found in Virginia = 35 per cent. 



21 are found in Maryland = 29 per cent. 



27 are recent = 37 per cent. 



Of about 100 North Carolina species — 



52 are found in South Carolina = 52 per cent. 

 31 are found in Virginia =31 per cent. 

 18 are found in Maryland = 18 per cent. 



22 are recent = 22 per cent. 



Of about 141 Virginia species — 



26 are found in South Carolina =19 per cent. 

 31 ai*e found in North Carolina = 22 per cent. 

 26 are found in Maryland = 19 per cent. 

 12 are recent = 8^ per cent. 



Of about 105 Marj'land species — 



21 are found in South Carolina =: 20 per cent. 



18 are found in North Carolina = 17 per cent. 

 26 are found in Virginia = 25 per cent. 



1 1 are recent =^11 per cent. 



Of about 78 Maryland " Newer " group species — 



19 are found in South Carolina = 25 per cent. 

 17 are found in North Carolina = 22 per cent. 



22 are found in Virginia = 28 per cent. 

 11 are recent = 14 per cent. 



Of about 27 Maryland " Older " group species — 



3 are found in South Carolina = 10 per cent. 

 2 are found in North Carolina = 8 per cent. 

 5 are found in Virginia =19 per cent. 

 recent. 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



It will be readily perceived from the preceding summarized 

 statement, that the general results obtained from the examination 

 of the gasteropod faunas abundantly confirm the conclusions 

 drawn from the study of the acephalous mollusks. Combining 

 the results obtained from the two methods of comparison, we 

 find that : 



Of about 177 South Carolina mollusca — 



128 are found in North Carolina =72 per cent. 

 69 are found in Virginia = 39 per cent. 

 55 are found in Mar3^1and := 31 per cent. 

 61-67 are recent = 35-38 per cent. 



Of about 206 North Carolina mollusca — 



128 are found in South Carolina = 62 per cent. 

 79 are found in Virginia =: 38 per cent. 

 54 are found in Maryland ^ 26 per cent. 



54 are recent = 26 per cent. 



Of about 250 Virginia mollusca — 



69 are found in South Carolina = 28 per cent. 

 79 are found in North Carolina = 32 per cent. 

 67 are found in Maryland ^27 per cent. 

 28 are recent = 11 per cent. 



Of about 203 Maryland mollusca — 



55 are found in South Carolina = 27 per cent. 

 54 are found in North Carolina = 27 per cent. 

 67 are found in Virginia = 33 per cent. 



24 are recent = 12 per cent. 



Of about 144 Maryland " Newer " group mollusca — 

 52 are found in South Carolina = 36 per cent. 

 49 are found in North Carolina = 34 per cent. 

 59 are found in Virginia = 41 per cent. 

 23 arc recent := 16 per cent. 



Of about 59 Maryland " Older " group mollusca — 

 7 are found in South Carolina = 12 per cent. 

 9 are found in North Carolina =15 per cent. 

 13 are found in Virginia = 22 per cent. 

 2 are recent = 4 per cent. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Summary. 



The following points in stratigraphy, it is believed, may be 

 considered as being conclusive!}' demonstrated through the fore- 

 going comparisons : 



1. That the South and North Carolina deposits represent ap- 

 proximately the same geological horizon ; 



2. That the Virginia deposits indicate a horizon lower (older) 

 in the geological scale than that of either of the foimations just 

 mentioned ; 



3. That the Maryland deposits indicate two well-marked faunal 

 horizons, of which the upper one is the correspondent of the 

 Virginian. 



Remark. — It will be seen from the last table that the corre- 

 spondence existing generally between the Marj'land deposits 

 taken as a whole (i. e., including both " newer " and " older " 

 groups) and those of Virginia, is greater than that which obtains 

 between the last and the deposits of the " newer " group (upper 

 Maryland horizon) considered alone, and, hence, it might readily 

 be concluded that the Virginia and Maryland formations are ab- 

 solutely equivalents of each other. But, as it has already been 

 shown, the Maryland deposits almost unquestionably represent 

 two well-defined faunal horizons, and, therefore, unless such is 

 likewise foimd to be the case in Virginia — which appears to be 

 highly probable^ althougli evidence proving the same is still in- 

 sufficient — no general correlation can be insisted npon. 



Having ascertained the relations which the deposits of the 

 several States hold towards each other, it remains lastly' to deter- 

 mine what are the horizons, as generally recognized by geologists, 

 that they represent. The low percentage of living forms which 

 characterizes the molluscan faunas of the Maryland and Virginia 

 deposits leaves no doubt as to the miocene age of these last ; the 

 " older " group of Maryland, therefore, represents the base of the 

 miocene series. As for the North and South Carolina deposits, 

 their position is somewhat more difficult to pronounce upon. 

 The percentage of recent forms occurring in South Carolina is 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



such as to permit, according to the original Lyelliau classification 

 of the tertiary strata, of the deposits of that State being referred 

 to the pliocene period. The North Carolina deposits, on the 

 other hand, would according to the same system of classification 

 be relegated to the miocene period, and yet, as has already been 

 seen, the identity existing between the faunas of the two States 

 is altogether too great to admit of anj' reasonable doubt as to 

 their contemporaneity. Nor is the difficult}- of determination 

 lessened when an appeal is made to European deposits of nearly 

 similar age, which have served to elucidate the principles of the 

 Lj'ellian classification. Thus in what might be considered to be 

 the two t3"pical areas for the occurrence of marine pliocene 

 deposits in Europe — Italy and England — the i)ercentages of recent 

 forms characterizing the contained faunas vary within very 

 broad limits. Foresti has shown (vide Fuchs, Die Gliederung 

 der Terti'drhildungen am Nordahhange der Apenninen von 

 Ancona his Bologna, Sitzb. d. k. Akademie der Wissenschaften, 

 Ixxi, p. 177, Vienna, 1875) that the so-called pliocene of the 

 Bolognese Apennines may be divided into four faunal hosizons, 

 the deposits belonging to which are characterized by the following 

 percentages of recent forms : 



Nos. I and II, therefore, correspond veiy closely in the propor- 

 tion of living forms with the North and South Carolina deposits. 

 But just this division of the sub-Apennine formation, or its equi- 

 valent, is b}- many Italian geologists referred to the upper miocene, 

 and, indeed, it would appear more natural, if the percentage of 

 living forms is to remain the principal basis for the classification 

 of the tertiary formations, to group the doubtful deposits here, 

 and thereby increase the latitude of the miocene, than where they 

 have very generally been placed, unless, as would seem from the 

 observations of Pareto {Les terrains tertiaires de VApennin sep>- 

 tentrional. Bulletin de la Soci(it^ G(^ologique de France, 2d ser., 

 vol. xxii, 1864-5, p. 237, et se<j.}, and Fuchs (lor. cit.). strati- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



graphical evidence is decidedly contrary to such an approximation.' 

 In the English pliocene faunas the percentages of recent forms are 

 very much higher than in the Italian just referred to.^ The fol- 

 lowing table exhibits the numerical relations of the living and 

 extinct species, which together constitute the crag molluscan 

 fauna (Lyell, " Student's Elements of Geology," 1818, p. 183, 

 emend) : 



NE^VER Pliocene. 



Total number Percentage of 



of species. Living. recent forms. 



Chillesford beds, 88 74 84.1 



Norwich, (Fluvio-marine), 112 94 84 



Older Pliocene. 



Red Crag, (exclusive of 



derivatives), 248 179 72.2 



Coralline Crag, 396 252 63.6 



It will thus be seen that the number of recent forms occurring 

 in the oldest division of the British pliocene deposits is, propor- 

 tionately' to the extinct species, very much greater — in fact, not 

 far from twice as great — than that which has been found to exist 



' A direct continuity between the upper miocene (Tortonian) and the 

 Bolognese sub-Apenuine (pliocene of most authors) formations is main- 

 tained by C'apellini (Sui Terreni Terziari di una parte del versante setten- 

 trionale dell 'Apeunino, Mem. Accad. Scienze, Istit. Bologna, ser. iii, vol. 

 vi, p. 618, 1876). Under the strata designated as the mio-pliocene 

 ("Messinian" of Mayer i, corresponding in a general way with the "Sar- 

 matian" and "Congerian" of the Austrian geologists, and consequently 

 comprising (as generally recognized by geologists) deposits of both miocene 

 and pliocene age, are included I and II of Foresti's faunal horizons— the 

 lower sub-Apennine marls and sands of C^apellini (upper Messinian of 

 Mayer). The upper marls and sands (III and IV) are referred to the 

 "Astian" (or pliocene proper of C'apellini). This classification appears 

 to be more in consonance with the facts presented by paleontology than the 

 one usually followed. 



^ Foresti has called attention (Oatalogo del Molluschi PUocenici delle 

 CoUine BoJognesi, ISlem. Accad. Scienze, Istit. Bologna, ser. ii, vol. vii, p. 

 548, 1867) to the much greater relation.ship which the fauna of the Bo- 

 lognese sub-Apenuine formations bears to the fauna of the Vienna basin 

 than to that of the British crag, and from this circumstance draws the 

 inference, that the Italian deposits represent a horizon very close to the 

 miocene (" rapreseiitano un piano geologico vicinissimo al miocene,'^ . . .). 




182 rROCEBDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



in the case of the South Carolina deposits. While it may be safe 

 to affirm, from this disparity existing between the American and 

 English faunas, that the formations represented by them are in 

 no way equivalents of each other, (an equivalency, as has already 

 been stated, that had been assumed by Lyell), it may yet be rash 

 to conclude from this reason alone that, broadly measured, they 

 do not belong to the same period (pliocene) of geological time, 

 the more especially, since (as will be seen from a comparison of 

 the British and Italian faunal tables) a nearly equal disparity 

 obtains between the faunas of the Crag and some of the sub- 

 Apennine deposits considered to belong to the same period. Nor 

 would it be safe to affirm conclusively, although the evidence in 

 this direction may be considered to be sufficiently strong, that the 

 American deposits in question are correlative of that portion of 

 the sub-Apennine formation, which, by some geologists, has been 

 referred to the upper mioceae, or classed as mio-pliocene. While 

 it may thus be difficult to determine absolutely whether the South 

 Carolina deposits (and, consequently, also the North Carolinian) 

 ought to be classed as pliocene or miocene, yet, in view of the 

 fact that thus far no tertiary beds have been discovered in that 

 State, nor probabl}- anywhere else along the Atlantic coast, whose 

 fauna more closely approximates that of the present day, and the 

 broad hiatus that is thus created between them and the succeed- 

 ing post-pliocene, in which, as determined by Holmes (" Post- 

 Pleiocene Fossils of South Carolina," 1860, Introduc, pp. 3 and 

 4), the recent forms make up fully 99 per cent, of the molluscan 

 faima,^ it would appear more natural to group them in the same 

 series with the deposits of Virginia and Maryland, to which, as 

 has been demonstrated by the tables of comparisons, they bear a 

 strong relation. For these reasons the author has preferred to 

 consider them as being of miocene age, and as representing the 

 uppermost member of the series. ^ The miocene deposits of the 

 Atlantic slope would, according to this determination, be divisible 

 into three groups : 



^ 1 have had no opportunity as yet of verifying this statement. 



- But very little evidence as to stratigraphical position is afforded by 

 direct corapainsons made between the European and American faunas, 

 since the number of equivalent, or oven representative forms is compara- 

 tively limited, and these are about equally divided between the European 

 miocene and pliocene. The following South Carolina lamellibranchs may 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Upper Atlantic miocene, represented by the South and North 

 Carolina deposits. 



Middle Atlantic miocene. represented by the whole, or the 

 greater part of the Virginia deposits, and those of the Maryland 

 " newer " group. 



Lower Atlantic miocene, represented by the deposits of the 

 Maryland " older " group, and possibly the lower portion of the 

 Virginia formation. 



To these three groups, commencing with the oldest, it is 

 proposed to apply the designations of " Marylandian," " Virgi- 

 nian," and " Carolinian," respectively. 



The sequence of the tertiary formations along the Atlantic and 

 Gulf slopes of the United States would, therefore, be approxi- 

 mately as follows : 



be considered to occur, or to have their analogues in the crag (pliocene) 

 deposits : 



Anomia ephippium. 



Ostrea Virginiana, represented by O. edulis. 



Lucina filosa = L. borealis. 

 " crenulata. 



Lucina dentata ? 



Nucula obliqua — Nucula nucleus ? 



Astarte bella, represented by Astarte gracilis. 

 " undulata, represented by A. Omalii. 



Artemis intermedia, represented by A. lentiformis. 



Mactra lateralis, represented by Mactra ovalis. 



Solen ensis. 



Pandora trilineata = P. inequivalvis ? 



The following may be said to occur, or to have their analogues in the 

 deposits of the Vienna basin : 



Anomia ephippium, represented by A. costata. 

 Area plicatura, represented by A. diluvii. 

 Nucula obliqua = N. nucleus? 

 LiTcina squamosa = L. pecten (reticulata). 



" lilosa = L. borealis. 



" anodonta ^ L. Miocenica ? 



" divaricata, represented by L. ornata ? 

 Chama corticosa, represented by C. gryphina. 

 Cardium maguvmi, represented by C. Kiibeckii. 

 Artemis intermedia, represented by A. lentiformis. 

 Pandora trilineata = P. inequivalvis ? 




184 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



o ® .5 3 5 *^ 



S rt ^ CI S o 

 CO S 3 5 

 3 .2 O S S "S as 



5 5 °^^ifi 



•-M 9 'C iH +3 CO h-3 



O CO r- S S 



42;=; -iS^ -w^ a 



PLh PL, 



o 

 ,^ . 



p 



O <9 



05 S 



01 & 



^ o 

 o 3 



<^ ^ ^ 



= fe ^ 



o ^ o 



t- o +^ 



- ® ^ 





> 



cs 



b a 

 to ^ -r' 05 ^ o -S 



o o "^ o c ^ 



a, t- a X. 3 Q> « 







5 »- S 



2 a) o 



a 

 •< 

 o 



© ® M <» 



^-r; o :; a> o 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Remark. — In the above table, in most instances, only the moj^e 

 prominent localities for the occurrence of the several deposits 

 have been given, and the absence of reference to certain States, 

 therefore, does not indicate that deposits of a given age are there 

 wanting. The " Jacksonian " beds, which are generally placed at 

 the top of the eocene series, may, on further examination, prove 

 to be oligocene. By some geologists a portion of the post-eocene 

 tertiarj'' deposits of New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland has been 

 referred to the pliocene period, but there does not appear to be 

 as 3'et sufficient evidence to support such a conclusion. No 

 precise correlation between the entire series of the Atlantic 

 tertiary deposits of the United States and those of Europe can 

 thus far be said to have been determined. There can be no doubt 

 as to the parallelism existing between the Claibornian and the 

 " Calcaire Grossier " (Parisian) of France ; but as for the imme- 

 diately overljdng and underlying eocene deposits, their relations 

 can only be approximately fixed from the positions which thev 

 occup3' in their own series. The " Buhrstone " appears to repre- 

 sent a portion, or perhaps even a greater part of the " Londonian," 

 and the Marll)orough and Piseatawaj'' beds of Marjdand (eo-lig- 

 nitic ?), a horizon probably not far removed from that of the 

 Bracheux sands of the Paris basin, or the Thanet sands of 

 England (Thanetian).' The exact equivalents of the "Orbitoitic" 

 have not yet been satisfactorily made out. There can be little or 

 no doubt respecting the position of the " Yirginian," whose 

 faunal facies places it at about the horizon of the faluns 

 of Touraine, and the " Second Mediterranean " beds of the 

 Vienna basin ; nor can there be much more doubt as to the 

 equivalency, at least in part, of the " Marylandian " and the lower 

 miocene beds of the' Vienna basin ("First Mediterranean").'^ 



' Heilprin, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1881, p. 446. 



- The proportions which the recent species of mollusca bear to the extinct 

 foiTiis is larger in the older deposits of the Vienna basin than in the newer ; 

 the percentages for the two divisions of the "Mediterranean" are twenty- 

 one for the "First," and fifteen for the "Second" (Fuchs, Geologische 

 Uebersicht der jungeren Tertiarbildtingen des Wiener Beckens. Fiihrer zu 

 deu Excursionen der D. Geolog. Gesellschaft, Vienna, 1877, p. 103). The 

 following species of Virginia and ^laryland laniellibranchiata may be con- 



13 




186 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



'1 pie relations of tlie " Carolinian " have already been fullv dis- 

 cusi ''•ed.i ^ . 



sidered as t' occurring, or having their analogous in the deposits of the Vienna 

 basin and the ^ British crag : 



J VIENNA BASIN. 



Saxicava i ugosa (bilineata) = S. arctica. 



Panopsea Am 'ericana, represented by P. Menardi. 



Venus latilirata, x® Jq'-epresented by V. scalaris ? 



Isocardia fraterna, I'ep^ le^resented by I. cor. 



Chama corticosa, represC* ' °uted by C. gryphina. 



Lucina anodonta = L. Miocei^Xyica? 

 " contracta (filosa) = L. boi*. -^alis. 

 " divaricata, represented by L. oui -nata, 

 " squamosa (speciosa) = L. pecten (^etl^.<(^^lata). 



Nucula obliqua == N. nucleus ? =i ^ 



Area plicatura, represented by A. diluvii. ^- 



Myoconcha incurva, represented by Mytilus Haidingeri V^ 



Perna maxillata = P. Soldanii. ■»' 



a . 



CRAG. - T^ 



Ostrea Virginiana, represented by O. edulis. ■'I 



Lucina filosa ( contracta) = L. borealis. ' 



" crenulata (Conrad) = L. crenulata (Wood) ? 



" dentata. 

 Nucula obliqua = N. nucleus ? 

 Erycinella ovalis. 



Astarte uudulata, represented by A. Omalii. 

 Panopjea Americana, represented by P. Menardi. 



" porrecta = P. gentilis? 

 Pandora arenosa ( trilineata ^cws ?), represented by P. pinna. 

 Saxicava rugosa. 

 Isocardia fraterna, represented by I. cor. 



' It is not improbable that the age of the beds of this period will be most 

 nearly represented by that of the deposits of the lower ("Black") Antwerp 

 Crag I Diestian i, considered by most Belgian geologists to form the base of 

 the pliocene series of that country (Dewalque, Prodrome d'une Descr/pti07i 

 Geologique de la Belgique, 1880, p. 254), and by Lyell ("Student's 

 Elements," p. 185), as the "first links of a downward passage from the 

 strata of the pliocene to those of the upper miocene period." The 

 percentage (46) of recent molluscan forms characterizing the fauna of 

 these Belgian deposits, as determined by Lyell in 1853 ("On the Tertiary 

 Strata of Belgium and French Flanders," Journ. Geol. Soc. London, VIIL, 

 p. 293 1, is, however, considerably higher than that which has been shown 

 to be the case with the Carolinian fauna. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 187 



June 20. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twent3^-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the occurrence of Nummulitic Deposits 

 in Florida, and the association of Nummulites with a fresh-water 

 Fauna," by Angelo Heilprin, was presented for publication. 



June 27. 

 Rev. Henry C.McCook, D.D., "Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty -two persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On supposed Tertiary Ammonites," by J. S. Newberrj'. 



" On the age of the Tejon Rocks of California and the occur- 

 rence of Ammonitic Remains in Tertiarj^ Deposits," by Angelo 

 Heilprin. 



The death of Mrs. Eleanor P. Long, a member, was announced. 



Distribution of Nerves. — Dr. Harrison Allen called attention 

 to the nerves as they were found in birds and other animals. He 

 had detected that the arrangement of the follicles for the feathers 

 (pteri/ls)., an account of which Nitzscli has elaborated in his 

 memoir on Pterylography, was associated with peculiarities of 

 distribution of the cutaneous nerves, and it was held by the 

 speaker that a careful study of these nerves, in mammals as well 

 as birds, would result in the elucidation of some interesting- 

 points in connection with the trophic nerves of the integument. 

 He further spoke of the arrangement of the nerves in the anterior 

 extremity of the mammal. He had found the deeper muscles, 

 such as the Pronator Quadratus and Anconeus, supplied b}' long- 

 nerves, while the superficial muscles were supplied by much 

 shorter ones. In Mevopoma he had detected a branch of the ulnar 

 nerve passing into the natatorial fold of skin present on the ulnar 

 border of the forearm. He had found in this genus the musculo- 

 spiral nerve and the ulnar nerve to arise from the same trunk, and 

 suggested, as probable, that the deep conjunctions of these nerves 

 in the brachial plexus of man would be found to be a constant one. 

 The ulnar nerve is one of the most interesting in the series, and 

 might be called the manal nerve since it is distributed entiiely to 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18S2. 



the hand and the muscles influencing it, and is well developed in 

 forms in which the median is undeveloped. The muscles of the 

 forearm, to which the ulnar nerve goes — the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, 

 and the ulnar portion of tlie Flexor Profundus Digitorum — are 

 among the most interesting muscles in the limb. Both muscles 

 are singularl>' constant. The}- are the most ettective muscles in the 

 backward movement of the manus in swimming and in walking, 

 and in the case of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, in making tense that 

 portion of the wing membrane of the bat lying between the manus 

 and the side of the body. The course of some of the cutaneous 

 nerves of the manus in the bat is indicated b}' raised folds of the 

 integument, which, when present, have systemic significance. 



Mr. Henry Howson was elected a member. 



July 4. 



Mr. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The death of Chas. L. Sharpless and that of Joseph Swift, 

 members, were announced. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 




1882.'] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



ON THE OCCUKRENCE OF NUMMULITIC DEPOSITS IN FLORIDA. AND THE 

 ASSOCIATION OF NUMMULITES WITH A FRESH-WATER FAUNA. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



Beside the so-called Nummulites MantelU of Morton (" Synop- 

 sis Org. Rem. Cretac. Group," p. 45, 1834), a species now known 

 to belong to the genns Orbitoides, onl}^ one other form of sup- 

 posed Xumniulite has been recorded as occurring fossil in any 

 North American formation. This is the Nummulites Floridanus 

 from the " upper Eocene limestone " of Tampa Bay, Florida, 

 described by Conrad in Vol. II (new series) of the American 

 Journal of Science and Arts '' (1846). The species is there said 

 to be abundant, and is referred to the subgenus Assilina^ of 

 D'Orbigny. The description given is brief, but at the same time 

 very broad, and no reference of any kind is made to the internal 

 chambers or the partitions of the test ; nor does the figure 

 appended to the description, which resembles a nummulite onlj- 

 in the circumferential outline, give the faintest indication of these 

 characters. In fact, if Conrad's figure is at all carefully drawn, 

 it would much more nearly indicate a species of the genus Orbi- 

 culina than of Nummulites. In the " Catalogue of the Eocene 

 Annulata, Foraminifera, Echinodermata, and Cirrepedia of the 

 United States," prepared by the same author (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences of Phila.. vol. 17, p. 74, 1865) the form in question 

 ( Cristellaria ? Floridana of D'Orbigny, Prodrome de Paleonfologie. 

 vol. II, p. 406) is referred to the new genus Nemophora of Con- 

 rad, the characters of which are not stated, and whose relations 

 to Nummulites, if any such exist, are left to the imagination of 

 the reader to determine.^ In numerous specimens of rock frag- 

 ments that have been kindly furnished from diflTerent parts of the 

 State of Florida by Dr. Eugene A. Smith, State Geologist of 



' By some authors the members of tliis group are considered to have dis- 

 tinctive characters sufficient to separate them as a genus apart from Ntim- 

 iiiulites (La Harpe, Etude sur les Nummulites du Comte de Nice, Bulletin 

 de la Soc. Vaud. des Sc. Nat., vol. XVI, p. 211. 1879). 



-As is the case with a very large proportion of Conrad's genera, no diag- 

 nosis of the "genus" Nemophora appears ever to have been furnished; 

 at least, it has not been the good fortune of the writer to discover any 

 such. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Alabama, and Mr. Joseph "Willcox, of this city, the writer has 

 carefull}' searched for foraminiferal remains that might with any 

 amount of positiveness be identified with the form above referred 

 to, but without success. While the Operculina {Gristellaria !) 

 rotella, stated by Conrad (loc. cit.) to occur with the so-called 

 Nummulite, was found in sufficiently great abundance in some of 

 the rock fragments — in fact, largely entering into the composition 

 of their incoherent masses — no trace of anything answerable to 

 the latter could be detected, unless certain associated disciform 

 bodies, measuring a quarter of an inch or more in diameter, and 

 ornamented on the external surface with regular concentric lines 

 of prominent granules, were actuall}' the objects sought after,^ 

 But in these the spiral volutions represented by Conrad could not 

 be detected, nor does that author make reference in his species to 

 any external ornamentation consisting of granules. On the 

 whole, we believe, it ma}' be safely affirmed that the Nemophoro 

 had nothing in common with the genus Nummulites beyond a 

 resemblance in outline, and the general community of character 

 that would place all similar organisms in the one class of the 

 foraminifera. The existence, therefore, of any fossil North 

 American Nummulites ma}' be considered to have been thus far 

 at best but ver}^ doubtful. 



But whatever doubt maj' have hitherto existed as to the 

 occurrence of North American Nummulites, none such can any 

 longer remain. From an examination of rock specimens that 

 were recentl}" obtained by Mr. Willcox from the western shore of 

 the peninsula of Florida, the writer has been enabled to determine 

 positively not only the existence there of these organisms, but 

 their occurrence (locally) in such quantities as to constitute by 

 their masses a true nummulitic rock. The rock in question is a 

 white or yellowish-white friable limestone, found in the immediate 

 neighborhood of the Cheeshowiska River, Hernando Count}-, a 

 few miles ( 4) from the coast line. The rock whence the fragments 

 were obtained occupies a level not more than two feet above tide- 

 water of the Gulf. All the specimens of Nummulites appear to 

 belong to a single species, and to the sub-genus JS^innmulina, in 

 which, as distinguished from Assilina, the individual whorls 



' These bodies appear to represent a new form of foraminiferal test, but 

 their imperfect preservation precludes the possibility of a satisfactoiy 

 diagnosis. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



completely envelop each other, and, to which the most character- 

 istic foreign representatives of the genus — N. Isevigatus^ N. com- 

 planatus^ N. jylnnulatus, N. inter medius. ^ m^ a 



etc., belong. The tests, varying in size up ^^^ , ^^ Q 



to about 5 inch in diameter, are in an ^^^^ ^W^v 



excellent state of preservation, and maj' e 



be readih- sliced open so as to show the /^^^^%, 



internal structure. A central initial cham- ro^^^^^^^ 

 ber is distinctly visible. To this species, ^^^^^^^^1 

 belonging to the group of the plicatse of ^ilWJ^^^ 



D'Archiac, I would propose, from the 



name of its discoverer, the specific designation of N. Willcoxi} 

 As to the age of the formation represented bv these nummu- 

 litic deposits, there might appear to be at first sight no question 

 of doubt. The presence alone of Nummulites in any formation is 

 almost positive indication as to the eocene or oligocene age of that 

 formation, and the more especially when the remains of these 

 organisms occur in an}^ abundance.^ Admitting the supposition 

 of this age, we should naturally look to the associated fossils for 

 further confirmatory evidence bearing on this point. Singularly 

 enough in the case of .the Florida nummulitic rocks — at least in 



^ Nummulites Willcoxi : Test regularly rounded, tumid (more especially 

 in the earlier stage), and measuring in the largest specimen about J inch 

 in diameter ; external surface distinctly marked by the arcuate, and some- 

 what wavy outlines of the septal prolongations ; volutions about 5, completely 

 enveloping ; septa close set, about 35-45 in the last whorl, and well flexed ; 

 central initial chamber distinctly visible. 



Wbile on further investigation this species may be found to be identical 

 with one of the numerous forms described from the nummulitic deposits of 

 Eur- Asia, from several of which it scarcely appears to differ, yet in the 

 absence of actual specimens with which to institute direct comparisons, 

 and the difficulty that attaches to the specific detennination of this class of 

 organisms, I have preferred to follow the safer course, and to describe it as 

 distinct. According to Carpenter, Kitchen Parker and Rupert Jones, all the 

 various "specifically distinct" forms described as belonging to the sub- 

 genus (or genus), Nummuliaa, of which, up to 1853, 55 were recognized 

 by D'Archiac and Haime, are referable to a single species, which is conse- 

 quently co-extensive with the genus (Carpenter, "Introduction to the 

 study of the Foraminifera, " Roy Soc. Rep., 1862, pp. 373-4;. 



2 Nummulites are excessively rare in deposits newer (miocene or pliocene) 

 than the oligocene. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



I 



the fragments that have been placed at m}^ disposal — with very few 

 exceptions all the molluscan remains belong to a period much 

 more recent than the eocene, and to species that are still living at 

 the present day. And what may appear still more singular, they 

 are referable in principal part to land and fresh-water genera — 

 Glandina, Faludina, Ampullaria} From this association, and the 

 circumstance that Nummulites are still met with in existing seas,^ 

 it might readil^^ be inferred that there has been here a co-mingling 

 of contemporaneous marine and fresh-water organisms, and that 

 the deposits in question w^ere laid down under such conditions — 

 proximity to the mouth of a river — where a co-mingling of this 

 kind could take place. Indeed, it would be difficult from paleon- 

 tological evidence alone to disprove such an assumption, were it not 

 that almost incontrovertible proof to the contrary in addition to 

 that furnished by the abundance of Nummulites, is aftbrded in the 

 presence of the remains of Orbitoides,^ a genus which attained 

 its greatest development in the upper eocene (" Nummulitic ") and 

 oligocene periods, and which does not appear to have survived 

 the miocene. There can, therefore, be little or no doubt that the 

 rock fragments marked by this admixture of an older and newer 

 (post-pliocene or recent) fauna, and comprising both marine and 

 fresh-water types of organisms, have derived their faunal charac- 

 ters in great part from the deposits of a more ancient formation, 

 which formation represents, and is the equivalent of a portion of 

 the European "Nummulitic" (whether eocene or oligocene). 

 The exact locality or localities which these Florida nummulitic 

 deposits occupy in situ has not 3'et been ascertained, but it is fair 

 to assume that the beds lie along the Gulf border (possibly in 

 great part submerged), where, through the disintegrating action 

 of the oceanic surf, their fragments have at a comparatively recent 

 period been washed together with the material that at the same 

 time was being carried out by the fresh-water streams. The 



' The recent species Glandina parallela, Paludina ( Vivipara) Waltonii 

 (Tryon), and Ampullaria depressa have been identified by Mr. Tryon. 



- Very rare ; all the forms are referable to the type N. planulatus (Car- 

 penter, op. cil., p. 275 ; Zittel, Ilandbuch dcr Paldontologie, vol, 1, part 1, 

 p. 100, 1876), of the same group (plicatoi ; radiaUe of Carpenter) to which 

 i\r. Willcoxi belongs. 



' Resembling in outline the European 0. ephippium. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



precise position which the formation holds in the nummulitic scale 

 as fixed by Hantken or La Harpe {Etude sur les Nummulites die 

 Comte de Nice, Bull, de la Soc. Vaud. des Sc. Nat., vol. XYI., pp. 

 223-4, 1879), cannot be positively determined from our present 

 data, since exceptionally the group of the Nummulites plicatse is 

 represented as well in the oldest as in the newest of the tertiary 

 deposits marked hy the members of this class of organisms. 



Figures. Nummulites Willcoxi. 



1, Natural size ; 2, Same, enlarged. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



ON SUPPOSED TEETIARY AMMONITES. 

 BY J. S. NEWBERRY. 



In the last issue of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences (1882, Part 1, p. 94), Prof. Heilprin announces the dis- 

 covery of Ammonites in rocks of tertiary age, viz. : the Tejou 

 group of California. 



Inasmuch as the verification of this statement would abrogate 

 one of the most important distinctions between the cretaceous 

 and tertiar}^ fauna, I would ask Prof. Heilprin to reconsider his 

 conclusion and review carefully the accessible facts bearing^ on 

 the case. Undoubtedl}^ the succession of living organisms on the 

 earth has been unbroken, and somewhere there are connecting 

 links between the faunas of all the different geological systems. 

 A scheme of geological classification is, however, not only a con- 

 venience, but a necessit}', and that at present in general use has 

 been established by such an amount of concurrent testimony that 

 modifications of it should only be accepted on the most undoubted 

 evidence. The question of the age of the Tejon and Chico groups 

 of California is not a new one. In 1855 Dr. Trask made the 

 announcement in the first volume of the Proceedings of the Cali- 

 fornia Academ}' of Sciences, now repeated b}' Prof. Heilprin, that 

 is, the discovery of Ammonites in tertiary rocks. These he con- 

 sidered tertiary because they contained two fossils, pronounced 

 by Mr. Conrad identical with his Mactra alharia and Nucula 

 divaricata. 



In my report to Lieut. Williamson in the Pac. R. Road Rept., 

 vol. vi, Geol. p. 24, 1 question the accuracy of the conclusions of 

 Dr. Trask, and the thorough investigation of the subject afterward 

 by Mr. Gab!) and Mr. Meek left no doubt whatever that the Chico 

 Creek deposits — those in question — were of cretaceous age, as 

 they were found to contain Ammonites^ Baculites Inoceramus 

 and other indisputable cretaceous fossils. The Tejon group in 

 which Prof. Heilprin now records the existence of Ammonites 

 overlies the Chico beds, and forms, according to Mr. Gabb, the 

 summit of the California cretaceous series. But there are manj' 

 species common to the Tejon and Chico groups, and where one 

 goes the other must follow. After years of study on the spot 

 and in the light of a greater array of facts than have been 




1882. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



before aii}- other paleontologist, Mr. Gabb was decided in his 

 reference of the Tejon group to the cretaceous system. The 

 material which Mr. Conrad had on which to base an opinion was 

 less abundant, but it was sufficient to satisfy him that his original 

 classification of the rocks in question was erroneous. I would 

 therefore ask in the interest of geological truth, that Prof. Heil- 

 prin would give to a question so important as this, very full 

 consideration, and, if possible, make a stud}" of the facts in the 

 field before discarding the conclusions of Prof. Whitney, Mr. 

 Gabb, Mr. Conrad, and Mr. Meek. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



ON THE AGE OF THE TEJON ROCKS OF CALIFORNIA, AND THE OOCTJR- 



RENCE OF AMMONITIC REMAINS IN TERTIARY DEPOSITS. 



BY ANGELO IIEILPRIN. 



The controversy which for a long time was maintained between 

 Conrad and Gahb as to the age of the Tejon rocks of California, 

 referred by the former to the eocene series, and by the latter 

 considered to represent the uppermost member of the cretaceous 

 (Division B of the California Report), can scarcely be considered 

 to have settled the question at issue. ^ Both paleontologists 

 appear to have maintained their respective positions to the last, 

 and to have permitted no considerations to outweigh the mass of 

 proof that at the same time was bearing in both directions.- The 

 essence of Conrad's views briefly stated is : That a portion of 

 the rocks, that of Cailada de las Uvas, included in the cretaceous, 

 fails " to show one cretaceous fossil," whereas, on the contrar3-, 

 it is held to contain at least two representative, and at the same 

 time highly characteric tertiarj- forms — " Venericardia j^lanicosta 

 and Aturia zic-zac ;'''' and that, where in other deposits referred 

 to the same horizon, an association between tei'tiary and creta- 

 ceous species obtains, such an association has been brought 

 about as the result of the breaking up of the materials of an older 

 formation, and the mixing up of their contained remains with 

 those''of a newer period, ^y Gabb, on the other hand, it is main- 

 tained that man}?^ of the forms referred to as tertiary species are 

 in reality not such ; that a repeated admixture between what have 

 been considered to be strictlj' tertiar}- forms and cretaceous 

 species manifests itself throughout the entire Californian (so- 

 called) cretaceous series ; and that no such breaking up and 

 re-formation, as has been claimed by Conrad, are anywhere 

 apparent. 



1 Conrad, Amer. Jouru. of Couchology, I (1865), pp. 363-5 ; II (1866), 

 pp. 97-100; Amer. Journ. of Science, new ser. XLIV (1867), pp. 376-7. 



Gabb, Amer. Journ. of Conchology, II (1866), pp. 87-92 ; Amer. Jonm. 

 of Science, new ser. XLIV (1867), pp. 326-9 ; Proc. California Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences, III (1867), pp. 301-6. 



^ The writer is informed by one who was intimately acquainted with 

 both parties, tliat Conrad finally yielded his position, but he has been 

 unable to discover the evidences of such a change of opinion in any of that 

 author's writings. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



197 



The most elaborate defense of Gabb's position is that published 

 in the " Proceedings " of the California Academy of Natural 

 Sciences for 1867 (pp. 301-6), in a paper entitled " On the Subdi- 

 visions of the Cretaceous Formation in California." In this 

 paper the author essays to show, b}' means of comparative tables, 

 the close relation that exists between the faunal characters of the 

 upper and lower members of his cretaceous group (Divisions B 

 and A of the California Report), and to prove by this relation- 

 ship the fallaciousness of a classification that would relegate the 

 deposits of the group to two distinct eras in geological chron- 

 ology. The following table of organic remains representing the 

 fauna of the Tejon group (Division B), wath the various localities 

 of their occurrence, is there appended •? 



^ A few .species occurring in beds said to be intermediate between B and 

 A, but not propei'ly belonging to the Tejon Group, are here included. In 

 addition to the 107 (113, inclusive of those from the "intermediate" 

 beds) species enumerated in the list, a small number of other forms have 

 been described in vol. II (1869) of the "Palaeontology" of the California 

 Survey. The different localities in the above table are designated by let- 

 ters, as follows : M, Martinez ; C, Clayton to ]\Iarsh's , T, vicinity of Fort 

 Tejon ; 6, a locality 10 miles west of Griswold's, near New Idria ; I, New 

 Idria ; D, San Diego ; LL, Lower Lake Village, 1 mile southeast of the 

 town. 




198 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



1 Inter- 

 Upper Division medi- 

 (B). ate 



' Beds. 



T. Diegoensis, 



T. paucivaricatum, 



T. ^Vliitneyi, 



Buccinum liiatura, 



Nassa cretacea, 



Pseudoliva liuefita, 



P. volutseformis, 



Olivella Matbewsouii, 



Aiicillaria elougata, 



Fasciolaria Iseviusciila, 



F. sinuata, 



F. To, 



;Mitra cretacea, 



Whitneya ficus, 



Ficvis mamillatus, 



Natica Uvasana, 



Lunatia Slmmardiana, 



L. Hornii, 



L. mxcifonnis, 



Gyrodes expansa, 



Neverita secta, 



N., n, s., 



Naticina obliqua, 



Amauropsis alveata, 



Movio tvibercvilatus, 



Scalaria (Opalia) Mathewsoni 



Niso polita, 



Cerithiopsis alternata, 



Architectonica coguata, 



A. Hornii, 



Margaritella crenulata, 



Conus Kemondii, 



C. Hornii, 



C. siniiatus, 



Eimella canalifera, 



R. simplex, 



Aporrbais angulata, 



Cypraja Bayerquei, 



Turritella Uvasaua, 



T. Saffordii, 



T. infragranulata, 



Galerus excentricus, 



Spirocrypta pilcum, 



Gadus pusillus, 



Dentalivnn Cooperii, 



D. stramineum, 



Bulla Hornii, 



Cylichna costata, 



Megistostoma striata, 



Martesia clausa, 



Solen parallelus, 



Solena Diegoensis, 



Corbula Hornii, 



LL. 



LL. 



Lower Division b and Remarks. 



LL. 



Martinez and elsewhere. 

 [Almost everywhere. 



Curry's;S. of Mt. Diablo. 



M. and Solano Co. 



Curry's; S.ofMt. Diablo. 

 Curry's;S.ofMt. Diablo. 



M • Texas Flat and many 



'' [other localities. 



Pence's; Texas Flat, etc. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



199 



Of the total number of 112 species here enumerated, 105 are 

 recorded as being found in Division B (Tejon group), 15 in the 

 so-called •' intermediate beds," and 21 in various deposits of the 

 lower group (Division A). The number of forms held in common 

 by Divisions A and B, as is shown by the above table, and the 

 intimate faunal relations which the " intermediate beds " hold to 

 the deposits supposed to lie above and below them, it is claimed 

 demonstrate conclusively that the series is a continuous one, and 

 admits of no such separation as had been insisted upon ])y Conrad. 



The value of a comparative table, such as is here presented, 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



uaturallj- depends upon the accurac3' of its details ; whether in 

 the present instance this accurac}' is such as to entitle the table 

 to special consideration, remains to be seen. On page 302 of the 

 paper last referred to Mr. Gabb states : " Of 280 species of fossils 

 recognized and named in the Californian cretaceous rocks, 107 

 are found in this upper member. Of these, 84 are peculiar, and 

 23 are found in common between undoubted members of this group 

 and undoubted members of the older group.''^ The inaccuracy of 

 this last assertion will be readilj" manifest when an appeal is made 

 to the data afforded b}- the preceding table. ^ It will be seen that 

 here onl}^ 16 species are enumerated whose range comprises the 

 "undoubted members" of both the older and newer groups (A 

 and B), as follows : 



Callianassa Stlmpsonii, Cylichna costata, 



Aturia ]\Iathewsonii, Martesia clausa, 



Nautilus Texanus, Mactra Ashburnerii, 



Ammonites, n. s., Tellina Hoffmanniana, 



Fusus Mathewsonil, Avicula pellucida, 



Amauropsis alveata, Cuculliea ]\Iathewsonii , 



Deutalium Cooperii, Niicvila (Acila) tiuncata, 



D. stramineum, Leda protexta. 



But in glancing over the original descriptions of the species 

 here cited, as given in vol. I of the Palajontological Report, and 

 the more recent list of distribution published in vol. II, we find — 



1. Vol. I, p. 59, that all the specimens (4) of Nautilus Texanus 

 were obtained from Division A (older group), no reference being 

 there made of its occurrence in an}'^ deposit of newer date ; nor is 

 an}' mention of the species being found in Division B made in the 

 more recent list of distribution (p. 209) contained in vol. II of 

 the Report (1869). In vol. II of the "American Journal of 

 Concholog}- " (p. 88) the species is quoted from Cla3'ton (B), but 

 Mr. Gabb has here evidenth' confounded the name of a finder 

 (" the last was found l)v Mr. Clayton ") Avith that of the locality. 



' Mr. Gabb has here evidently induded the " iuterraediate beds" among 

 the " undoubted members of the older group," and yet to disclaim any 

 inteutiou on his part for so doing, he adds (immediately following the 

 sentence above quoted) : "Besides this, I was fortunate enough to discover 

 a locality near Clear Lake, this fall, where, within a space of two feet, I 

 found an admixture of upper and lower forms, proving the existence of a 

 transitionary bed, or, perhaps, group of beds." Injustice to Mr. Gabb, it 

 must be stated, that on p. 305 of the same paper, only 16 species, a figure 

 more nearly the correct one, are stated to be common to Divisions A and B. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



2. Yol. I, p. 195, no indication is given of the occurrence of 

 Gucullsea Mathexosonii in deposits belonging to Division B, 

 althougli tlie locality' Martinez, where beds representing both B 

 and A are to be met with, is given. From this indefinite state- 

 ment it might be inferred that the specimens were obtained from 

 the upper beds, but any doubt on this point is set at rest by the 

 subsequent reference (Amer. Journ. Conchol. II, p. 88 ; Cal. PaL 

 Rept., II, p. 249) of these Martiiiez beds to the Martinez group 

 (A). The second locality given (for a single specimen) is " Clay- 

 ton, below 1 the coal-veins," which in vol. II of the Report {loc^ 

 cit.) is referred to the " intermediate beds." 



So that deducting these two forms which have not yet been, 

 detected in the deposits of Division B, these last have at the 

 utmost (at least as far as is known), only 14 species common to 

 the lower Division (A), instead of 23 as claimed. 



But while 14 species may actually be held in common by the 

 upper and lower members, we are far from satisfied that such 

 really is the case. Thus Mr. Gabb states (Pal. Repoi't, I, p. 153) 

 that Mactra Ashhurnerii " is one of the most common fossils in 

 the State," and instances numerous localities of its occurrence in 

 both divisions A and B ; and further (in Am. J. Conchol., II, 

 p. 88), that it is found in " almost every locality of both Divis-- 

 ions." It would certainly be a difficult matter to disprove such; 

 an affirmation, but it is, to say the least, surprising, that a careful! 

 examination of all the specimens of the Gabb collection in the- 

 possession of the Academ}- of Natural Sciences, which have served 

 as the basis of the Palieontological Report, and which comprise- 

 probably the greater number, if not nearly- all, of the cretaceous- 

 " types " and figured specimens, we have failed to discover a 

 single fragment from Division A (Martinez, Chico, and Shasta 

 groups) tliat could with any amount of positiveness, or with vmy-- 

 thing more than considerable doubt, be referred to the form that 

 under the same name is credited to Division B (Tejon group). 

 This is the more singular since the collection embraces a very 

 considerable number of rock fragments, which are crowded with, 

 molluscan remains. Two specimens marked in Gabb's hand- 

 writing as coming from Texas Flat (Chico group. A), ajid; con- 

 sidered by that paleontologist to represent the " typical form "' 



' The italics appearing in the quotations belong to the writer of this 

 article. 



14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



(so marked) of the species, differ ver}^ essentially in outline from 

 the Tejon specimens, and are doubtless specificalh* distinct. 

 Again, in the case of Nucula truncata Mr. Gabb instances (Pal. 

 Rept., I, p. 199) several localities of its occurrence in Division A, 

 and also Martifiez as a locality of Division B, but no mention is 

 made of the last named as a locality of the first Division. On the 

 other hand, all the Martinez specimens of this species in the Gabb 

 collection are marked as belonging to Division A ! In vol. II 

 (p. 19*7) of the Reports, however, we are informed that this 

 species is " found at almost ever}^ locality of the Chico, Martinez, 

 and Tajon groups," but we must confess that, after a diligent 

 search, we have failed to discover among the Tejon rock frag- 

 ments anything that could with sufficient evidence be referred to 

 this form. Nor have we been able to find the faintest traces of 

 L'eda Gabbii (protexta of Gabb) (or for that matter, of several 

 other forms belonging to group B) in the rock fragments obtained 

 from the older members, but it would perhaps be premature to 

 conclude from this that it may not really occur there. On page 

 199 of vol. I, the only locality given for Division A is (near) Mar- 

 tinez (at the same time a localit}^ for Division B), but in the 

 "tabular statement" appended to the same volume (p. 235) the 

 ranch of San Luis Gonzaga is substituted instead. Tellina Hoff- 

 manniana is not stated in the original description (vol. I, p. 156) 

 to be found in any locality of Division B, nor is it included in the 

 list of" common " species given in 1866 in the American Journal 

 of Conchology (11, p. 88). In vol. II of the Reports, however 

 (p. 182), this species, which could originally " always be dis- 

 tinguished by its straight or slightly convex cardinal margins," 

 but which has now become a " rather variable " form, is reported 

 from two localities (Martiiiez and " Griswold's ") of the Tejon 

 group. An inspection of Mr. Gabb's figures (I, pi. 22, figs. 33, 

 33a ; II, pi. 30, fig. ([2) will, we believe, fail to convince one that 

 in both instances the same species is represented, and, indeed, in 

 the Martiiiez (B) specimens the " straight or slightly convex 

 cardinal margins " characteristic of the species have become both 

 anteriorlj^ and posteriorly decidedly convex. 



Mr. Gabb invokes the assistance of his " intermediate l)eds," 

 unknown to him at the time of the publication of the first volume 

 of his Reports, to prove the intimate relation that exists between 

 the upper and lower members of his cretaceous series. An &%.- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 203 



amination of the preceding table will show that 7 species, not 

 found in deposits older than the intermediate beds, are credited 

 as being common to these last and the Tejon group, as follows : — 



Fusus Californicus, Spirocrypta pileum, 



Buccinum liratum, Tapes Conradiana, 



Fasciolaria Iteviuscula, Ci'assatella grandis. 

 Galerus excentricus, 



These are said to be associated with a limited number of forms 

 that are found in the lower division, but which do not pass above, 

 and (if we except Cucullsea Mathewsonii, which has been shown 

 not to belong to the upper member) with only one solitary form, 

 Avicula pellucida, that is common to both divisions, a circum- 

 stance of suspicious import. But in turning to the original 

 description of Fasciolaria laeviuscida (vol. I, p. 101) we find no 

 mention of its being found in deposits belonging to Division B, 

 but on the contrary, it is distinctly stated to have been " found in 

 the strata immediatel}^ below the coal in the Mount Diablo dis- 

 trict " (although it was associated with scA'eral species found also 

 at San Diego and Martinez of Division B), and in vol. II of the 

 Report (p. 220), only the " beds intermediate between the Marti- 

 nez and Tejon groups " are given as the locality' of its occurrence. 

 Nor do we find in the lists of distribution contained in vol. 11^ 

 any mention of the " intermediate beds " in the case either of 

 Buccinum {Brachysphingus) liratum^ Galerus excentricus^ or Spi- 

 rocrypta pilexnn, although it does occur in the case of the remain- 

 ing three (Fusus Californicus, Tapes Conradiana, and Crassa- 

 tella grandis). 



We believe it may be fairly questioned, from what has already 

 been shown, whether Mr. Gabb's tables afford at all a safe crite- 

 rion upon which to base the solution of the problem at issue. The 

 numerous .discrepancies would seem to prove almost conclusively 

 that in their preparation the author was in a measure, or even to 

 considerable part, borrowing from his memor^^, or, at any rate, not 

 absolutely from the data that were presented in the field. But 

 granting that the tables be entirely trustworth}^ in tlie statements 

 that have been called into account, do the}' at all prove his case ? 



' Published more than one year after the paper iu the "Proceedings of 

 the California Academy, and thei'efore at a time when Mr. Gabb ought to 

 have been fully cognizant of the value and position of his intermediate 

 beds. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



We believe most assuredly not. Surely a geologist would find it 

 diflBcult, on the assumption of immediate continuity and witliout 

 the assistance of a change in the general character (whether 

 marine, fluviatile, or terrestrial) of the fauna, to account for the 

 rather anomalous circumstance, that, in a locality rich in organic 

 remains, the upper member of a closely connected series should 

 be characterized by a fauna about 80 per cent.^ of whose individual 

 forms is peculiar to itself. In order to antagonize this difficulty, 

 and, at the same time, to show still more effectively how much 

 more closely the members of this upper group of deposits are 

 linked to the beds below them (and, consequently, how indis- 

 putably cretaceous) than to those following (and, therefore, how 

 little tertiary), Mr. Gabb submits the argument (Proc. Cal. Acad. 

 Nat. Sciences, 1861, p. 306 ; A. J. Science, new ser., vol. XLIY, 

 p. 229), that "All of the species are peculiar to this group (B), or 

 to this and underlying ^ rocks ; not one has been found associated 

 either with living forms, or with species known to occur in the 

 recognized tertiaries of California. Five of the genera are pecu- 

 liar to the secondary. An Ammonite ranges entirely through the 

 group to the top of the highest fossiliferous strata. The genera 

 Perissolax, Gyrodes, 3Iargaritella, and the sub-genus Anchura, 

 of the genus Aporrhais, are all recognized as strictly characteristic 

 of the cretaceous ; so much so, that the presence of a single 

 undoubted representative of either of these genera would be 

 strong presumptive evidence of the cretaceous age of anj^ rocks 

 in which it might be found." But Mr. Gabb omits to emphasize 

 in this connection (although a casual reference to a part of the 

 facts is made), and as directly bearing upon tlie subject of chrono- 

 logical relationship, the Jirst appearance (in California) in the 

 deposits of this group of the genera (among others) Ancillaria, 

 Bulla, Conus^ Gyprsea, Crepidula (Spirocrypta), Gassidaria 

 (Mario), Ficus, Gadus, Mitra, Nassa, JViso, Olivella (or Oliva), 

 Pseudoliva, Rimella, Triton, Trochita, and Typhis, m^ny o^ iheva. 

 distinctively, and as has been generally recognized exclusively 

 tertiar}^ forms. Nor does that paleontologist appear to lay the 

 least stress upon, or even advert to the circumstance that the 

 eminently mesozoic genera Ancyloceras, Hamites, Helicoceras, 



' The percentage takes into account the full number of forms said to be 

 held in common by the upper member and the intermediate beds. 



^ The italics are Gabb's. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Turrilites, Crioceras, ^ Ptychoceras (Helicancylus), Baculites, 

 Inoceramus, Trigonia^ Grypheea^ and Exogyra, which are found 

 in one or other, or several of the deposits of the older group (A), 

 are here completely wanting. Surely the wholesale appearance 

 and disappearance of characteristic genera have at least as much 

 import in the determination of geological chronology, or in the 

 fixing of systemic relationships, as the casual persistence of a few 

 specific types, and, indeed, a paleontologist or zoologist would be 

 very hold to assert that the distinctive characters of a fauna 

 depend rather upon the features drawn from its specific, than 

 from its generic constituents.^ It would appear strange, to say 

 the least, if a geologist were now to unite the Devonian and 

 carboniferous formations, or the Silurian and Devonian, for no 

 other reason than that they comprise in their several faunas a 

 number of " common " forms, when the general facies of these 

 faunas is very distinct.- 



^ Accepting the generic determinations of Mr. Gabb, we find that of 

 about 77 genera credited as belonging to the Tejou group, no less than 33 

 (or 43 per cent.) have not been described from the cretaceous deposits 

 underlying this group ; and 3 additional ones do not pass beyond the 

 "intermediate beds !" The faunas are here, then, decidedly vei-y distinct, 

 despite the fact that a limited number of "common" or passage forms 

 (forming at the utmost only about 13 per cent, of the Tejou fauna) may be 

 said to exist. 



"^ According toEtheridge (Anniversary Address, London Geol. Soc, 1881 

 —Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, pp. 184-185), of 37 species of brachiopods 

 occurring in the upper British Devonian, 16 pass into the succeeding car- 

 boniferous deposits ; these last also hold 5 species of upper Devonian 

 lamellibranchs, o gasteropods, 2 heteropods, and 4 species of the genus 

 Orthoceras. Of the total number of 183 genera and 520 species constituting 

 the British Devonian fauna, 30 genera and 49 species pass into the carbo- 

 niferous iloc. cit., p. 197). In California, of about 141 genera described 

 from Division A (Martinez, Chico, and Shasta groups), 44 are also found in 

 Division B (Tejon group), and, therefore, the proportion of generic forms 

 common to what is here claimed to be both cretaceous and tertiary is 

 greater than that which obtains in the case of the British Devonian and 

 carboniferous formations. But if in both instances only the moUuscan 

 fauna (which comprises, with the exception of 5 species, all of Gabbs 

 described forms) is taken into account, a very striking correspondence in 

 the numerical proportions presents itself. Thus, according to Etheridges 

 tables, 25 out of the 74 Devonian molluscan genera appear in the carboni- 

 ferous deposits, or nearly 34 per cent. : in California, 40 of the 133 Division 

 A genera are also represented in Division B, or 30 per cent. According to 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



But it is here inaintaiued, that in addition to a purel}' specific 

 relationship we have one established through generic ties. " An 

 Ammonite ranges entirely through the group to the top of the 

 highest fossiliferous strata. The genera Perissolax, Gyrodes, 

 3Ia7-garitella J and the sub-genus ^?ic7n<?'a, of the genus Aporrhais, 

 are all recognized as strictlj' characteristic of the cretaceous ; so 

 much so, that the presence of a single undoubted representative 

 of either of these genera would be strong presumptive evidence 

 of the cretaceous age of any rocks in wliich it might be found " 

 (Proc. Cal. Acad., p. 306). Laying aside for the present the 

 question of the Ammonite, onl}^ a few words need be said respect- 

 ing the other genera.^ As Mr. Conrad has already shown (A. 

 J. Science, new ser., xliv, p. 376), no locality in Division B is 

 assigned to the (2) species of Gyrodes in vol. i, of the report, but 

 on the contrary', both are clearlj' assigned to the Division A ; and 



Mr. Ethei-idge Hoc. cit., p. 179 ^ 12 genera (of 137), and 20 species (of 392^, 

 of Ludlow (upper Silurian) fossils pass into the Devonian ; and 11 genera 

 (of 61), and 16 species (of 182) from the Cambrian into the Silurian 

 (Arenig) (p. 100).— The circumstance that the faimal break between the 

 cretaceous and tertiary periods is in all, or nearly all, localities thus far 

 studied greater than between the Devonian and carboniferous or the 

 Silurian and Devonian, has no bearing on the point at issue, since a con- 

 nection or passage must exist somewhere, and it is quite immaterial where 

 this passage may be found. The assertion that has at various times been 

 repeated that no cretaceous species have been known to pass beyond the 

 limits of that period, has been definitely refuted by comparisons made 

 between the foraminiferal faunas of chalk and the Atlantic ooze, and, 

 doubtless, impartial examination will reveal a number of higher forms in 

 post- cretaceous deposits, undistinguishable from forms which have up till 

 now been considered to characterize strata of more ancient date. It would 

 probably puzzle many paleontologists to determine by what special charac- 

 ters certain cephalopods (Na^itihis) or brachiopods of tertiary, or for that 

 matter, of recent age, are distinguished from their more ancient congeners, 

 and, indeed, even such a high authority as Mr. Davidson ("British Tertiary 

 Brachiopoda," p. 14, Palajont. Soc. Repts.. 1852), has found it difficult to 

 differ from the opinion expressed by Edward Forbes that at least one 

 existing brachiopod (Tercbratulina caput serjientis) is also a cretaceous 

 form. 



' Although in the text it is not absolutely stated that these several genera 

 all occur in the rocks of the Tejon group (but ''in this and associated 

 rocks"), the connection in which the statement is made would seem to 

 imply that they did so occur ; and i\Ir. Gabb's inference would certainly 

 justify such an interpretation of the statement. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20Y 



ill vol. ii (p. 222) the transition beds are given as the upper limit 

 of the genus. In the case of the genus (or sub-genus) Aiichura, 

 the species especially referred to, A. (Aporrhais) angulata^ is 

 stated (vol. i, p. 128) to occur very sparingly near Martiiiez " in 

 a single stratum of greenish-gra}' limestone," and is credited ex- 

 clusively to Division B ; yet, in the same description, a locality 

 in Division A — Cottonwood Creek, Shasta County — is mentioned ! 

 Furthermore, in the " tabular statement " appended to the same 

 volume (p. 227), the Martiiiez locality of the identical species is 

 referred to Division A! In vol. ii (p. 22fi), while the localities 

 are given, the group has been wisely omitted. As to tlie forms 

 that liave been referred to Perissolax^ it would be very ditlicult to 

 state wh}^ they should be considered as being characteristically 

 cretaceous. It is true that the genus was founded on cretaceous 

 species,^ but it would be, indeed, a veiy comprehensive genus that 

 would embrace such entirel}^ dissimilar forms as the Fyrula 

 (Fusus) longirostra of D'Orbign}^,^ one of the tj^pes of the genus, 

 and the P. Blakei (Busycon? Blakei of Conrad) and P. hrevij'os- 

 tris that are here referred to it (and also the Fusus Durmllei and 

 F. Homhroniana !).^ There is, as far as we are aware, not the 

 faintest reason for considering the California species here indicated 

 as representing cretaceous molluscan types, whatever ma^^ be 

 thought of the genus Perissolax as originally founded ; on the 

 contrary, as Conrad has pointed out (A. J. Science, new ser., xliv, 

 p. 31 G), the}^ more properl}^ belong to his genus Levifusus (sub- 

 genus? of Fusics), represented in the eocene of Alabama b}^ the 

 Fusus traheatus {F. bicarinatus of Lea, j^oung). 



Respecting the forms that have been referred to llargaritella, 

 and to their being " strictly characteristic of the cretaceous," it 

 need only be stated that Mr. Meek, the author of the aforesaid 



1 Gabb, Proc. Am. PMlos. Soc, 1861, p. G6. 



2 PaUont. de V Amer. mer.^ p. 119, pi. 13, fig. 13. 



* D'Orbigny, Voyage de V Astrolabe et de la Zelce, pi. 3, fig. 1, and pi. 1, 

 fig. 31. . . . Gabb, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1861, p. 67. It can 

 scarcely be wondered at that neither Conrad nor Stoliczka could grasp the 

 characters of the genus, and that the latter referred the typical form not 

 only to a distinct genus, but to a very different family, the Purpurida 

 (Palseontologia Indica, Cretaceous Fauna, II, p. 149). 




208 BROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



genus, distinctlj' aflirmsi that they do not belong where they have 

 been placed, but in the genus Solariella of Wood, which was 

 founded on a tertiary (pliocene) fossil, S. {Margaritaf) maculata 

 from the British Coralline Crag.^ 



So for, therefore, not one of Gabb's characteristic cretaceous 

 genera, with the exception of the Ammonite, of which several 

 specimens are said to have been found in the rocks of the Tejon 

 group fand of which, or of an allied genus of the Ammonitidse,^ the 

 author of this article was fortunate enough to discover a solitary 

 fragment), carries out the inference that has been drawn from 

 their actual or supposed existence. 



Having thus, as we believe, satisfactorily shown the erroneous- 

 ness of many or most of the data that have served as a guide in 

 the classification of the rocks in question, and to their reference 

 to the cretaceous period, it now remains to examine in greater 

 detail the reasons wh}' these should be considered as not creta- 

 ceous, but tertiary. Briefly repeating what has alread}^ been said, 

 we find that the Tejon fauna (considered solel}'^ with respect to the 

 other California faunas) comprises about {aw&'prohaUy considerably 

 more than) 80 per cent, of forms peculiar to itself, or at least that 

 are not found in deposits representing a lower horizon ; that 33 

 oi;t of its 11 genera, constituting 43 per cent, of the entire num- 

 ber, ai*e likewise not represented in the older deposits ; that with 

 the exception of a few fragments or specimens (about 1 in all) of 

 one or two forms of Ammonitidse^ there is a complete absence of 

 distinctively cretaceous organic types (while they are sufficiently 

 plentiful in the subjacent beds) ; and finally, that there is a sudden 

 introduction of new molluscan t3^pes, most of which are but barel}', 

 if at all represented in the cretaceous deposits of the world (as 

 far as has yet been determined), and several of which are not 

 known to have preceded the tertiary- period. The appearance 

 here for the first time of the genera AnciUaria^ Bulla, Conns, 

 Crepidula, Cassidaria, Cypreea, Ficus, Gadus, Mitra, Kassa, 

 Niso, OliveUa (or Oliva), Pseudoliva, Rimella, Triton, Trochita, 



' U. S. Geol. Survey of the Territories, ix, Invertebrate Palaeontology, 

 pp. 301-2, 1876. 



2 Catalogue of Crag MoUusca, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., ix, 1843, p. 531 ; 

 "British Crag Mollusca' (Pateout. Soc. Rep., 1848), i, p. 134. 



■■' Tlie fragment was too imperfect to admit of positive generic deter- 

 mination. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



and Typhis^ has alread}^ been adverted to. But these are not the 



' The writer is unaware that any unequivocal species of the genera 

 Ficus (SycoU/pus ; Pyriila, as restricted), Gndus, JVassa, Niso, OUvella 

 (or OUea), Bimclla, or Typhis, have been described from deposits ante- 

 dating the tertiary. 



Pyrula Pondicherriensis of Forbes (Trans. Lond. Geol. Soc, vii, p. 127, 

 1846; Pyrula Carolina of D'Orbigny, Voy, Astrolabe et Zelee, Pal. pi. 11, 

 figs. 34 and 35), a ficuliform species from the cretaceous deposits of India, 

 has been shown by Stoliczka to belong to the Volutidm, and to a new genus, 

 Ficulopsis (Pal. ludica, Cretac. Fauna, ii, pp. 84-5). 



Ifassa li/ieata of Sowerby (Fitton's Report, Trans. Lond. Geol. Soc, 2d 

 ser., iv, p. 344, pi. xviii, p. 25), from the Blackdown sands, may be a true 

 member of the genus to which it is referred, but neither the figure nor 

 description of the species permits of such a determination. The second 

 species described in the same report, 2^. costellata, has been referred by 

 D'Orbigny, Pictet, and Stoliczka to CeritMuni. The first of these is the 

 only cretaceous species recognized by Pictet and Campiche {Materiaux p. 

 I- Pale out. Suisse, iii ser., p. 673) as being probably a Nassa, but the 

 authoi"'s conclusions on this point appear to have been based entirely upon 

 Sowerby's original determination. Stoliczka (op. cit., p. 148) places Buc- 

 ciintm Stein in f/eri o{ MuWer {Petr. Aach. Kreidef., p. 78, 1851), anunfigured 

 species from the chalk of Aix-la-Chapelle, in Nassa, but on what authority 

 or for what reasons, this reference is made, we have found it impossible to 

 discover. The two species of Nassa described by the last named author 

 from the cretaceous Arrialoor group of India, N. Vylapaudensis and N. 

 Arrialoorensis, and determined from imperfect specimens, are at best but 

 very doubtful, and, indeed, it is stated that the last may possibly be a 

 Mangelia or Defrancia {op), cit, , p. 145) ! 



Niso Nerea of Deslongchamps {Bull. Soc. Linn. Norm., 18G0, v. p. 126 ; 

 Turbo Nerea of D'Orbigny, Pal. Franc. Terr. Jur., pi. CCCXXVI, figs. 4 

 and 5) considered by Stoliczka (op. cit., p. 288) to be possibly referable 

 to one of the subgenera of Niso, does not appear to have much, if any- 

 thing, in common with that genus ; nor can much more be said in favor of 

 the other species {Turbo, TrocTius, etc.) referred by Deslongchamps to the 

 same genus. 



OUta vetusta of Forbes (Trans. Lond. Geol. Soc, 2d ser., VII, p. 134, 

 pi. 12, fig. 23), from the cretaceous rocks of Southern India, is a Dipsacus 

 according to Stoliczka (Pal. Indica, Cret. Fauna, II, p. 452, pi. XXVIII, 

 fig. 27!. The Olivaf prisca of Binkhorst {Monocjr. Gastr. et Ceph. Craie 

 sup. de Limbourg, 1861, p. 71, pi. Va^, fig. 14) is unrecognizable as a mem- 

 ber of the genus to which it is referred, and, according to the author him- 

 self, may possibly be a fragment of a Cypro'a. 



Of the genera Pseudoliva and Ancillaria it would appear that only a 

 single cretaceous species of each has thus far been recognized ; the P. 

 subcostata of Stoliczka {op. cit., p. 145) (from the Arrialoor group of 

 Southern India), described from a solitary imperfect specimen, and the A. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1882, 



only more or less strictly tertiary genera that are here repre- 

 sented. In the Tritonium paucivaricatum (Palseont. Calif., I, p. 

 95, figs. 209, 209a, ver}^ badly figured) we have a true Gancel- 

 laria: The 3Iegistostoma (new genus ^) striata (I, p. 144) is a 

 true Bullsea, a genus represented by a very limited number of 

 fossil forms, and so far not known to have appeared before the 

 tertiarj' period, Naticina obliqua (I, p. 109) appears more like 

 a Sigaretus, the shell (in the specimens examined, all of which 

 are partially imbedded in the matrix) being considerably more 

 depressed than in the genus Naticina. But to whichever of these 

 two genera the species may belong, it is immaterial in the present 

 consideration, since no unequivocal member of either form, as far 

 as the writer is aware, has been described from au}^ formation 

 older than the tertiary.^ In vol. II of the Report (p, 157) we 

 have described a member of the genus Bullia (sub-genus Molopo- 



cretacea of Miiller {Monogr. Petr. Aach. Kreidef., p. 79, pi. 6, fig. 23), 

 from the chalk of Aix-la-Cliapelle, and described from a single imperfect 

 impression. The least equivocal of the several doubtful cretaceous fomis 

 that have been referred to the genus Conus is probably the G. Marticensis 

 of Matheron (^Cat. des Corps organises fossiUs, Bouchesdu-Rlione, 1842, p, 

 257. pi. 40, figs. 24-25), from the chalk of Martigues. There seems to be 

 no reason for specially doubting that the imperfect specimen here figui-ed 

 is a true cone, but yet it would be by no means surprising if closer exami- 

 nation would prove it to be a form moi-e closely related to Acteonella or 

 Aeteoniiia. The C. tuberculatus of Dujardin [Mem. Soc. Geol. de France, 

 1835, II, p. 232, pi. XVII, fig. 11), from the chalk of Tours, is not unlikely, 

 according to Stoliczka (op. sit., p. 72), to be a member of the cretaceous 

 genus Oosavia, which it resembles (differing from all other true cones) in 

 its ornamentation. Conus canalis of Conrad (Journ. Phila. Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences, 2d ser.. Ill, p. 321, pi, 35, fig. 22), from the " Ripley " group of 

 Mississippi, scarcely admits of positive generic determination. Conus 

 gyratiis of Morton, (Syn. Org. Remains, Cretac. group, 1834, p. 49, pi. X, 

 fig. 13), from the white limestone of South Carolina, is an eocene species. 



' The distinctive characters of this supposed new genus, as pointed out 

 by Gabb, are more imaginary than real, 



"^ Natica aciitimargo of Rcemer ( Verstein. Nordd. Kreidegeb., 1841, p. 83, 

 pi, XII, figs, 14, a, b), from the chalk marl of Quediinburg and Diilmeu, 

 and said to have fine revolving lines, may possibly prove to be a Sigaretus, 

 but the sutui-al canaliculation would seem to render this point rather sus- 

 picious, Sigaretus Pidanceti of Coquaud {Mem. de la S)c. d'emul. da 

 Daubs, 2me ser,, VII, p, 46, pi, 5, figs. 4 and 5, 1856) is a Natica according 

 to Pictet and Campiche {Mat. Paleont, Suisse, 3me ser., p. 380, pi. LXXVI, 

 fig. 1, a, b, c.) 




1882] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



j)horus^ doubtfull}' difterent from the tertiary and recent genus, 

 or sub-genus, Buccinanops) ; and finally (Ibid., p. 162), a Tere- 

 hra (T. CaJifornica), a genus Avhose range has not yet positively 

 been determined to extend back beyond the limits of the Tertiary 

 period. 



So that of the 71 genera represented in the Tejon group, at the 

 very least 22 are more or less distinctively' tertiary ; and of these 

 22, 11 are not positively known to have appeared before that 

 epoch of geological time. On the other hand, if we except the 

 six or seven fragments of Ammonitidse (one, or possibly two 

 genera) already referred to, there would seem to be in the entii'e 

 number not a single distinctively cretaceous generic tyjye ! 



Evidence Afforded by Specific Forms. 



The circumstance, considering the deposits here referred to 

 to be eocene, that " not one [species] has been found associated 

 either with living forms, or with species known to occur in the 

 recognized tertiaries [miocene and pliocene] of California" (Gabb, 

 Proc. Calif Acad. Nat. Sciences, 18G7, p. 306), is not very sur- 

 prising. The number of species that pass from the deposits of 

 eocene age into the miocene is frequently very limited, or there 

 may not be a single one. This last is, singularly enough, what 

 obtains in the case of the tertiaries of the eastern and southern 

 LTuited Stated, where both the eocene and miocene formations are 

 extensively developed, and Avhere the organic remains are also 

 ver}' abundant.^ 



Leaving aside the question of identity as existing between the 

 eocene and miocene forms, it will be important to ascertain what 

 correspondence, if any, manifests itself between the specific types 

 of the deposits here discussed, and those of other tertiar}^ (eocene) 

 localities ; for the determination of this point we subjoin the fol- 

 lowing notes on a few of the species : 



Cardita Hornii and Cardita planicosta. — Wtieilicr the species of Cnnllta described 

 by Conrad from the rock ofCariiidade las Uvas ns C. pluniconta (Pacific R. R. Rei)orts, 

 V, p. 321), and desijruated by him as the "finger post, of the eocerie" (Ibid., p. 318), 

 is the veritable C. pbiuiconta of Lamarck, or not, it is impossible to state. The 

 author's intimate acquaintance with that speeios, from both European and American 



^ But sparsely, if at all, indicated in the earlier deposits. 



' It would be, perhaps, going too far to state, that not a single species 

 is held in common by these eocene and miocene deposits ; it would be 

 more proper to say, that none such has yet been recognized. 




212 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



forms, ought certainly to have enabled him, in the presence of fairly preserved speci- 

 mens, to determine this point definitely, but whether the specimens in question were 

 actually in a condition to admit of such positive determination, can, at the present 

 time, only be conjectured. The description accords well with the species (and in a 

 measure, also, the figure), but it is a little too brief to admit of a positive conclusion 

 being drawn therefrom. For a similar reason it would be impossible to affirm conclu- 

 sively whether the species is, or is not the C. Hornii of Gabb (Palaoont. Calif., I, p. 

 174; ir, p. 188), specimens of which were found near the same locality. I believe 

 there can be no doubt that the character pointed out by Gabb (II, p. 188), as distin- 

 guishing the two species here mentioned — namely, the form of the ribs, which are 

 rounded in the one (C. Hornii), and flattened in the other ( C. lilanicostu) — has a cer- 

 tain value, but whether sufficient to permit of specific distinctions being based upon it 

 in the absence of all other characters, can only be determined when a greater number 

 of perfect specimens will have been brought together for comparison. In all other 

 respects the two species appear to be identical, as will be seen from the following 

 (Gabb's) statement : " I have compared my specimens with shells from the London 

 clay, and from the Alabama eocene, and find that, except in the extreme quadrate 

 forms,! they are absolutely identical in all characters save one. The hinges are so 

 similar that I despair of making an intelligible written description of their minute 

 differences, and should hardly feel willing to trust an artist with their delineation." 

 Granting the specific value of the character claimed by the aforesaid paleontologist, 

 the type (C. Hornii) still remains distinctively tertiary,^ since what may be considered 

 as analogous forms, are to the knowledge of the writer, completely wanting (although 

 the genus is already represented) in the pre-tertiary deposits. 



Dosinia elevata (I, p. 167) is more likely, as stated by Conrad, to be a Dosini- 

 opais than Dosinia (Am. J. Conchol., II, p. 98), despite the assurances of Mr. Gabb 

 to the contrary {Ibid., p. 91).^ As much as can be determined from the figured speci- 

 men it appear? to be very closely allied to the JJosiniopsis Meekii of Conrad {Ct/therea 

 lenticularig ? of Rogers), from the lower eocene of Maryland and Virginia, from 

 which it mainly (or barely) differs in the greater width of the flattened area on the 

 posterior slope. 



Meretrix Hornii (I, p. 64; II, pi. 30, fig. 78), a form allied to, but not as pro- 

 duced posteriorly as the Cytherea suherycinoides of the Paris basins. 



Ficopsis (Hemifusus) Remondii (I, p. 87, pi. 18, fig. 36), a form very closely 

 related to, if not identical with the Pi/rula penita of Conrad (= P. nexiliv and P. 

 tricarinata of Lamarck), from the eocene of Claiborne, Ala. The occasional tricari- 

 nation observable in that form, as well as in its European representative, is here also 

 apparent. The only difference of any account we could detect between the two 

 species is that in the Californian form the surface reticulation is somewhat the finer, 

 but since there is no exact constancy in the order of this reticulation, it may be 

 doubted whether the difference here noted is of more than varietal value. 



^ . . . though some specimens, four and four and a half inches across, 

 are as distinctly triangular as the typical ^Zrttttcos^* " (II, p. 188). 



2 The character of the ribs, previous to weathering, is very much as in 

 the C pectuncularis or the C. Jouaiineti. 



•■' No perfect hinge is exhibited in any of the specimens of the Gabb col 

 lection, which includes the figured form. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



Tritonium pauoivarioatum (I, p. 95, pi. 28, figs. 209, 209a, unrecognizably 

 figured), as has already been stated, is a Cancellaria, and a form so closely related to 

 the C. evuha^ of Brander ("Fossilia Hantoniensia," 1766, p. 14, as Bucciimm ; pi. 1, 

 fig. 14), from the British Bartonian (upper eocene), that it may well be doubted 

 whether it is at all specifically distinct; and the same may be said of its relation to a 

 form'' from the lower eocene deposits of Clarke County, Ala,, which is doubtfully 

 referable to the C. tortlpHca of Conrad. 



Megistostoma striata (I, p. 144, pi. 21, figs. 108a, b). — While, perhaps, from the 

 slightly imperfect condition of the specimen, it would be impossible to affirm positively 

 that this species is identical with the Biilliea expansa of Dixon, from the eocene of 

 Brackelsham, England, and the Paris basin (Desbayes, Animaux. sans Vertebres, 

 Bassin cle Paris, II, p. 652, pi. 36, figs. 27-30, Mollusqiies Cephales), yet, what there 

 is of it shows absolutely no character by which to distinguish it from that species. 



Conclusion. 



We believe it has been satisfactorily shown from what has 

 preceded, that the rocks of the Tejon group (cretaceous Div. B. 

 of the California survey), despite their comprising in their con- 

 tained faunas a limited number of forms ^ from the subjacent 



^ Compared with actual specimens. 



^ Kindly transmitted for examination, with other fossils, by Dr. Eugene 

 A. Smith, State Geologist of Alabama. 



*The reliance that is to be placed upon Gabb'a positive assertions as to 

 the localities or horizons whence certain species have been obtained, may 

 be inferred from the statement (Am. Journ. Conchology, 1866, II, p, 90), 

 that Xaticina obliqua and Turritella Uvasana, species claimed to be eocene 

 by Conrad, were "found by Mr. Remond and myself in sti-ata containing 

 Ammonites and Baculites, and abounding in other cretaceous forms," A 

 reference to the descriptions of these two species, as well as to the various 

 tables of distributiou published (before and after the making of the state- 

 ment) by Gabb, clearly shows that the forms in question were not known to 

 that paleontologist to pass beyond the limits of Division B. How then 

 could they be associated with the Baculites, when the only Californiau 

 species of that genus, B. Chicoensis, is distinctly stated (I, p. 81) to be 

 "only found in Div. A"? So likewise from the statement (Am. Joirni. 

 Conchology, II, p. 89), that ? Ammonites Cooperii,^^ one o^ X\\q Ammonitidce, 

 whether an Ammonite or not, is fi-om the presumed eocene of Mr. Conrad, 

 from San Diego, and the family is sufficient to establish the age of that 

 deposit, had we no other proof." But singularly enough, in the description 

 of this ammonitic fragment (I, p. 70), the specimen is said to be "of par- 

 ticular interest from the fact that it is one of the oldest fossils found in the 

 southern part of the State, being considerably below the newer cretaceous 

 fossils of San Diego !" ^The italics belong to the writer of this article). 

 And in vol. II (p. 212) the species is doubtfully referred to the Chico 

 group ! 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



(cretaceous) deposits, and a few undoubted representatives of the 

 Ammonitidee, are of tertiarj' (eocene) age, and for tlie following 

 reasons : 



I. The large percentage (about 80, or possibly considerable 

 more) of specific forms tliat are peculiar to the group, or, at least 

 are not found in the older deposits ; 



II. The large proportion of generic forms (33 out of 71) that 

 are not represented in the imderlying or older strata ; 



III. The presence of 22 more or less distinctively tertiary 

 genera: Ancillaria^ Bulla, Bidlsea {llegisfostoma), Bidlia (s. g. 

 3Iolopo2^horus) Conus, Ci-epidula, Cassidaria, Cancellaria^ Cyp- 

 rsea^ Ficus {Ficopsis), Gadus, Mitra, Nassa, Niso, Olivella (or 

 Oliva), Pseudoliva, Bimella, Sigaretus (or Naticina)^ Terehra, 

 Triton, Trochita, and Typhis; 



IV. The marked absence (with the exception of about a half-a- 

 dozen fragments or specimens of Ammonitidse) of distinctively 

 cretaceous organic tj'pes ; 



Y. The identity, or ver3^ close analogy existing between several 

 of the specific forms and their representatives from other well 

 determined tertiary (eocene) deposits.^ 



^ The eocene age of the Tejon rocks is maintained by Prof. Jules Marcou 

 (Report of the Chief of Engineers, Washington, 1876, p. 387), who made 

 a personal examination of the region. "I was not able to find a single 

 cretaceous fossil, nor even any true cretaceous generic forms, in the entire 

 formation ; and I am altogether of the opinion expressed by ^Ir. Conrad, 

 many years before Mr. Gabb, in volume 5, of Pacific RaUroad Explora- 

 tions, pages 318, 320, et. seq., who, judging from certain fossils found in an 

 isolated block, at the entrance of the Caiiada de las Uvas, has very judi- 

 ciously referred these rocks to the eocene-tertiary formation" .... 

 " The fauna of Tejon i-eminds one very much of the fauna of the sands of 

 Anvers [?], near Pontoise, and of the sands of Gre[^, ?]gnon, near 

 Versailles." 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



July 11, 1882. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper was received for publication, through the Botanical 

 Section of the Academj-, entitled " On Rhus cotinoides," bv Dr. 

 Chas. Mohr. 



July 18, 1882. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Nine persons present. 



Nest of Chfstura peMsgia. — Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a 

 nest of the chimnej'-swallow, or swift, from a chimney in German- 

 town. It was made of small twigs of the cherry-tree, and fastened 

 together, and to the wall of the chirane}' by vegetable gum of 

 some kind, indeed, pure gnm, undistinguishable in taste and 

 general api)ea ranee from the kind which exudes from cherry- 

 trees. He referred to the statement of Audubon, and which has 

 apparently been copied without further question hy subsequent 

 authors, that the gum used by the biid in the building of its nest 

 is a salivaceous secretion of its own, and that there are within 

 the mouth of the bird, special organs provided for this secretion. 

 Only for this positive statement of Audubon there would be no 

 question, he thought, that this was cherry-gum, obtained at the 

 same time and place from where the twigs were obtained, namely, 

 the cherry-tree. It was not easy to tell one kind of gum from 

 another in the absence of chemical analysis, but he believed there 

 was no difliculty in distinguishing animal gum from the gum 

 yielded b^^ vegetables. It was inconceivable that an animal should 

 secrete vegetable gum. Still, in view of Audubon's statement, 

 the question was one for anatomists to settle. 



It was, he said, worthy of remark that other species of swallow 

 used vegetable gum for nest making. A cave-swallow of Cochin 

 China used a gelatinous seaweed, a species of Gelidiinn not far 

 removed from Chondrus crisjjus, the well-known Irish moss, to 

 make their nests. This formed the so-called edible nests of China. 

 Lamaroux, as quoted by Dr. Peyre Porcher, in his " Medical 

 Properties of Cryptogamous Plants," remarks that far inland the 

 birds employed other material to build their nests, but secured 

 some of the Gelidium which they employed to stick the materials 

 together, and fasten the nest to its support. The collecting of 

 vegetable gum for this purpose is expressly conceded in the case 

 of this species. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



In regai'd to the nest exhibited, Mr. Meehan called attention to the 

 fact that the gnm with which the twigs were coated, had evidently 

 all been deposited on the wall before the collection of the twigs ; 

 and, as the twigs were placed, the gnm was softened perhaps by 

 saliva, or perhaps by water brought in the bird's bill, so that it 

 could be drawn over the twigs. This was evident by the lines of 

 gummy threads, which mostl}' started from the mass on the wall, 

 and decreased in thickness as the^' were drawn out, terminating in 

 filmy lines. He called attention to the nest exhibited as being 

 obliqueh' built, and not set regularly against the face of the wall. 

 That this appeared to be intentional seemed evident from the fact 

 that the finer ends of the twigs all started from right- to left and 

 wdiich, after being fastened there by the gum, were bent around to 

 the left, making a greater curve at the right, on account of the 

 less resistance from the slender end of the twigs. This obliquity 

 seemed a great advantage to the bird, as it provides for sitting 

 nearly parallel with the wall. If the bird sat at right angles with 

 the wall, its long wings would be very much in the way of her 

 work. 



Miss Grace Anna Lewis remarked that she had once had an 

 opportunity of seeing a chimney -bird at work repairing the nest 

 upon which it w^as sitting. The bird adjusted a loose stick wnth 

 ease, and then plastered it with its bill, using the latter in the 

 manner of a trowel. It then waited quieth> apparently to give 

 time for a further secretion, and worked and rested alteraately, 

 until the damage was repaii'ed. All this was distinctly seen 

 through a pipe hole opposite the nest of the bird. 



Miss Lewis had seen many nests of the chimnej'-bird and did 

 not think thej' were usually larger on one side than the other, but 

 supposed that the specimen shown by Mr. Meehan, had been 

 warped by rain, and redrying. 



When first built, the nests are quite symmetrical, and in the 

 form of a quarter of a globe. The particular nest to which she 

 referred had been built by placing two sticks verticall}', 'and 

 attaching the cross-pieces to these, to form the open basket-work. 

 She thought the cement used to fasten the sticks was of animal 

 origin and was derived from the bird itself. When fresh and 

 unsmoked, the cement does not resemble even in color, the gum 

 of the cherry-tree. 



July 25, 1882. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



Dr. Maxwell T. Masters, of London, was elected a corres- 

 pondent. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 217 



RHUS COTINOIDES, NUTI. 

 BY CHARLES MOHR. 



Since its discover}' bjj^ Nuttall, in the year 1819, in Arkansas, 

 and twenty- -three 3^ears later by Prof. Buckley, in North Alabama, 

 this tree has not been found bj' any otlier botanist, and our 

 knowledge of it remained fragmentary and obscure. 



After having been lost to the botanical world for fully forty 

 years, its re-discovery and observation in the various stages of its 

 growth was deemed of sufficient interest to be made a special 

 object in my investigation of the forest growth of the Grulf region 

 for the Tenth Census. To this end, several trips were made to the 

 southern declivity of the Cumberland Mountains as they descend 

 upon the valley of the Tennessee River in Madison County, Ala. 

 On the 21st of September, a successful search for the Baily farm 

 was made, where, in the monntains near hy, Prof. Buckley found 

 the tree in the beginning of April, 1841. ^ This place is situated 

 near the base of a bold mountain range rising to a height of 

 900-1000 feet above the Tennessee Rivei-. 



The sight of my botanizing capsule dimly recalled to the 

 present owner, the Professor's visit at his fatiier's, but he had no 

 conception of its object. He informed me that there is a small 

 tree found in abundance in the low foothills skirting the valley, 

 3delding a yellow wood nsed for dyeing, which he considered to 

 be the tree I was in searcli of; and as fine specimens could be 

 obtained nearer by, the trouble of liauling them down the moun- 

 tain could be avoided. 



Great was mj^ disappointment Avhen the Bhamnus Garolinianus 

 was pointed out to me as the yellow wood. I felt quite relieved 

 by the forthcoming statement that there was another kind of the 

 yellow wood found on the rocky benches near the summit of the 

 mountain, of which his father brought down a stick over 30 years 

 ago, to serve, on account of its strength and durability, as a cross- 

 piece to the rack used in his slaughter-pen. On a closer examination 

 it was found to be a kind of timber I had never seen before, and 

 after an exposure for such a length of time was perfectly solid, 

 sound, and to all appearances as durable as ever. No time was 



' Proceed. Acad. Nat. Science of Phila., June, 1881. 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



lost now in looking for its source on the mountain. Tlie lower flanks 

 of the range, less steeply inclined, with a rich, deep soil, are almost 

 entirely under cultivation ; the steep incline above the clearings, 

 with its rock-covered ground, supports a fine forest of Mountain 

 Oaks ( QuercuH Prinus), Chestnuts, Black Ash (Fraxinus quadran- 

 gidata), Elm ( Ulmus Americana), Maples (^Acer saccharinum var. 

 nigrum), Mocker-nuts (Carya tomentosa), interspered with copses 

 of Red Cedar (Juniperus Virginiana), with a dense imdergrowth 

 of trees of smaller size; Plums {Frunus Americana), Black Haws 

 {Viburnum pi^wiifolium), Hornbeam (Carpinus Americana), 

 and various shrubs, Bhus aromatica, Forestiera ligustrina, etc. 

 The heavy outcrops of this mountain limestone form on the steep 

 declivity extensive ledges, and terrace-like shelves traversed hy 

 shallow ravines — their fragments, which cover the ground, making 

 the access to these woods quite difficult. It was upon this rock}- 

 soil, amongst its varied forest vegetation, that the coveted object 

 of va.y search was found growing. Not more than half a dozen 

 trees of the same kind were found iu this locality, scattered along 

 one of the rocky ravines, measuring from 25-35 feet in height. 

 The largest one felled measured .35 feet in length and 12 inches 

 in diameter one foot above the ground. 



Arrived at such dimensions, the tree has evidently long passed 

 the best period of its life, judging from the decay by which, more 

 or less, the trunk was found affected. No sign of a decline, 

 however, could be observed in the vigor of its vegetation. 



The trunk divides at a height from 12 to 14 feet above its base ; 

 the primary limbs are erect, the secondary branches widely 

 spreading, often slightly reclining, smooth and divide into 

 numerous divaricate reddish branchlets rugose from the base 

 of the leaf-stalks of the previous season. The bark is rough, 

 covered with a whitish gray epidermis of a deep chestnut-brown 

 underneath, and exfoliating in oblong square scales of uniform 

 size. The inner bark is w^iite, exposed to the air turning rapidly 

 to a deep 3'ellow color, and exudes, when bruised, a resinous sap 

 of a heavy, disagreeable terebinthinous odor. The wood is heavy, 

 very compact, of a fine grain ; the white sap wood of small 

 proportion surrounds, as a narrow ring, the deep j-ellow hard wood, 

 variegated by zones of different shades of brown, imparting to it 

 a beautiful appearance when polished. 



The leaves are from 24 to fi inches long, from H to 3 inches 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



wide, broadly ovate, obtuse, slightly emarginate, and attenuate 

 at the base, with a strong mid-rib prominent ; primary veins of a 

 purplish color, sparsely pubescent while 3'oung ; pei'fectly smooth 

 later in the season ; of a bright green, with a soft, glaucous hue. 

 The panicle is open, 8 to 12 inches long, and almost as wide, with 

 horizontally-spreading branches, which, like the common peduncle, 

 are smooth, subtended like its crowded, numerous ultimate divisions 

 by marcescent, finally deciduous lanceolate bracts. The flower- 

 bearing pedicels are erect, one inch or over in length, and sparsely 

 hirsute. The shorter, almost capillar}' abortive divisions, are 

 gracefully received and bent, densely plumose by long spreading 

 jointed hairs of a purplish tint. 



Flowers perfect, minute ; calyx deeply five-parted, the lanceolate 

 lobes veined and with a mid-rib little over one-half the length of 

 the persistent, greenish white ligulate petals, which are inserted 

 between the sepals and the thin, broad purplish disk. Stamens 

 short. Ovarj' with 3 short lateral styles. Drupe hard, oblique, 

 semi-obcordate, ^ inch b}' its largest diameter ; the coriaceous 

 brownish epicarp prominently veined and reticulated, investing 

 closely the tough testa. Cotyledons accumbent. 



The inner bark and wood are used for dj'eing yellow, and it is 

 said, also, for the production of purple tints. On this point, 

 however, no definite information could be obtained. 



Large numbers of trees were cut down during the war to pro- 

 cure a dyestuff much valued at the time, and full-grown ones are 

 now quite scarce near the settlements. On account of the beauty 

 of its wood, the tree is called Shittim-wood by the negi'oes, they 

 believing it to be same which was used in the construction of the 

 tabernacle in Solomon's Temple. The wood permits of the finest 

 finish ; the fineness of its grain, beauty of color and its hardness 

 fit it well for inlaid work, veneering, and the manufacture of 

 smaller articles of all kinds of fanc}' woodwork. 



As an ornamental tree it far surpasses the European species, 

 and will be found quite as hard}'. 



On the 3d of May it was found almost past blooming, a few 

 belated flowers allowed the examination of its floral organs. On 

 the 29th, it had fully ripened its fruit, the panicle had begun to dry 

 up, and its pedicels were already a prey to wind and weather. In 

 searching for the flowering tree, extensive coppices were found on 

 the southern slope of Mount Sano, east of Huntsville, the second 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



growth from numerous stumps of full-grown trees cut down 

 during the last half centur}-, to serve as kindling-wood. Its 

 resinous wood burning easily with a bright flame, this rare and 

 interesting tree is constantly sacrificed to such low purposes wher- 

 ever found easy of access. Within the narrow limits to which it is 

 confined, it would be doomed to rapid extinction if it were not for 

 the production of numerous rapidly-growing sprouts, giving rise 

 to a copious second growth. It produces seeds but sparingly, all 

 efforts to produce seedlings or }' oung trees for transplanting failed. 

 It seems to be easily propagated by layers, judging from some 

 accidentally prostrated limbs, which, where in contact with the 

 ground, were found rooting. 



As observed in this state, this tree appears principally confined 

 to the southern declivities of the mountains, from the northern 

 border of the valley of the Tennessee, and strictly to the habitat 

 described. It was never found on the sandstone cliffs which 

 but a short distance higher up overlay the limestone strata, nor 

 lower down the mountain sides, where the soil is deep and rich. 

 According to Prof. Buckley, stunted specimens were first seen by 

 him near Ditto's Landing, on the southern bank of the stream. 

 The writer failed to meet it in his travels through the mountain 

 region bordering south upon the basin of the Tennessee Rivei*. It 

 is said to extend northward into the State of Tennessee, following 

 the flanks of the Cumberland Mountains in their northeastern 

 trend. 




1882. j natural sciences of philadelphia. 221 



August 1, 1882. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Summer Migration of the Robin. — Mr. Thos. Meehan remarked 

 that Audubon, Nuttall, Wilson, and other eminent ornithologists, 

 had suggested that the seasons had evidently not so much to do 

 with the migration of birds, as the question of food, though most 

 authors connected this question of food with the autumn or winter 

 season. He said he had recently observed the migration of the 

 robin ( Turdus migratorius) in great numbers during the ten days 

 prior to August 1, or on the evenings of those days, for the flight 

 was from about sundown to dark. They came from the north- 

 west, and were flying southeast. Some were but a few hundred 

 feet, but others were so high as to be scarcely visible, which 

 would indicate a long journey. Robins had abounded on his 

 propert}- in Germantown during the past spring and early summer. 

 He might say, without exaggeration, there were man}- hundreds 

 of them. On the day of this communication, August 1, it 

 was rare to meet witli one. He considered the question of 

 disappearance wholly one of food. On his grounds there had 

 been no rain of an^' consequence for two months. For two 

 weeks past numerous trees and plants had to be kept alive hy 

 artificial watering. Examining the dry earth after the harrow, he 

 found few signs of insect life. The cherry crop had been nearly 

 a failure. The usual berried plants, such as dog-wood, on which 

 they generall}' fed, were not ripe. There was really little for 

 them to eat, and he had reason to believe that the same conditions 

 prevailed all over northern Pennsjdvania. In New Jersey, plants 

 with berries were ripening, as they were also further south, and 

 he concluded this search for food was in this instance the cause 

 of the early migration. 



Night-closing in the Leaves of Purslane. — Mr. Meehan noted that 

 in the list of plants having diurnal or nocturnal motion, Portidaca 

 oleracea did not appear. At sundown the leaves, at other times 

 at right-angles with the stem, rose and pressed their upper surfaces 

 against it. The morning expansion began with dawn, and soon 

 after sunrise the leaves were fully expanded. Mr. Isaac Burk 

 had also observed it, as also in an allied plant of the West Indies, 

 Talinum patens. 



August 8, 1882. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 

 Colored Flowers in the Carrot. — Mr. Thos. Meehan remarked 




222 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



that the umbellet of colored flowers in the centre of the umbel of 

 the carrot, was represented as usually fertile in Europe and 

 sterile in the United States. He had always found them sterile 

 in the United States until this season, when he discovered that 

 those in the centre of the first umbel of the season were fertile. 

 Those in the umbels from lateral shoots were sterile. This had, 

 no doubt, always been the case — the laterals probably being the 

 onl3^ ones examined in former investigations. 



August 15, 1882. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Heliotropism in Sunjloivers. — Mr. Thos. Meehan exhibited 

 flowers of Helianthus mollis, and remarked on the popular fallacy 

 regarding sunflowers turning with the sun. The original " sun- 

 flower," connected with the Ovidian stories of Clytie and Phrebus, 

 was the European heliotrope, and even that did not turn with the 

 sun in the modern popular sense. It simply grew where the sun 

 loved to shine, and the plant did not flower till the sun had reached 

 its summer solstice. The tragical part of the mythological story 

 is founded on the fact that the plant continued to open its flowers 

 as the sun declined, or, as Ovid might say, its affection for its 

 beloved was in proportion as the lover fled from her to his winter 

 quarters. The Helianthus was named sunflower, simply because 

 the flowers resembled the sun, and there is no relation between it 

 and the sunflower of mythology. Yet there are peculiarities 

 worth noting. Travelers across the American plains, where sun- 

 flowers abound, have often observed a great proportion of flowers 

 facing one direction, but there were always some in other direc- 

 tions, and these exceptions seemed to prevent any generalization 

 as to special points of the compass being favored more than 

 others. He has growing in his garden, plants of Helianthus 

 mollis, from seeds gathered by him some years ago from near 

 Odin, in Illinois, and the flowers always seemed to have, to a 

 great extent, a general southern leaning, but until this season 

 he had not thought to make exact figures early enough to be 

 satisfactory. This season he found the first flowers open on 

 the 1th of August. The upper portion of the flower-stalk is 

 curved, so that when the flower opens, some (quarter of an inch of 

 stem is at right-angles with the lower portion, and the face of the 

 flower is exactly horizontal. It was subsequently found that the 

 flower remained in this horizontal position till the last disk-floret 

 had expanded, occupying about three days, when the whole head 

 commenced to occupy an erect position, taking about three days 

 more to fully accomplish. Commencing to open on the 7th of 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



August, b}' the 11th there were sixtA'-eight flowers expanded, all 

 facing exactly southeast on opening ; but on the evening of this 

 day, three were found wliich had changed around to northeast, with 

 a slight tendency up from the horizon. On the 14th, there were 

 seventy -three flowers open, twenty -one of which faced northeast. 

 On examining the matter carefully, the inclination to the north 

 was found to be due to a slight spiral or uncoiling growth during 

 the advance from the horizontal rest to the erect position. All do 

 not do this, but uncnrve rather than uncoil. While this accounted 

 for the northward advance, often as much as ninety degrees in a 

 number of flowers, it still left the reason for the original facing of 

 the flower to the southeast, among the many problems of plant-life 

 3'et to be solved. He referred to the several reasons offered in 

 explanation of polarity in the leaves of the compass-plant, point- 

 ing out the unsatisfactory character of all of them. 



August 22, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair, 

 Ten persons present. 



August 29, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



September ,5, 1882. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " Conchologia Hongkongensis,'' by T. W. 

 Eastlake, was presented for publication. 



Vitality of Fresh-ioater Polyps Dr. H. Allen called attention 



to tenacity of life as exhibited in a fresh-water pol3'zoon (Fluma- 

 tella vesicularia, Leidy). The leaf of the lily on which the colony 

 had fixed itself, liad been, b}^ accident, removed from the water of 

 the aquarium, and had been exposed for sixteen hours to the air. 

 The animals had ai)parently become dry. and the colony itself 

 barely visible to tlie unaided eye. Upon being again immersed 

 (in water that chanced to be impregnated with iron-rust), the 

 animals revived and flourished for two weeks, at the end of whicli 

 time they perished from the effects of the decay of the leaf on 




224 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



which tliey were growing. The following facts were thought to 

 be of interest in this connection. First, that in these animals, 

 relatively high in organization, aeration may go on for a number 

 of hours by means of the retracted tentacles in the small amount 

 of water contained within the cells. Second, that the presence of 

 oxide of iron in the water does not interfere with the growth of 

 the animals. And third, that the genus Phimatella may be found 

 to resemble other mollusk-like creatures not onl}^ in their plan of 

 organization, but in their habits of sustaining life for long periods 

 after removal of the animals from water. The last-named fact 

 may possibly enter into questions of geographical distribution of 

 this and allied forms. 



On Balanus, etc., at Bass Bocks, Mass. — Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that the Barnacle, Balanus balanoides, of which he presented a 

 series of specimens from Bass Rocks, Gloucester Co., Mass., is 

 found ever^^where in the greatest profusion covering the rocks, 

 between tides, on our eastern coast. It is also common on manj- 

 other more or less fixed objects, such as shells of dead or living 

 mollusks, lobsters and crabs, old wrecks of vessels, etc. The 

 specimens presented are interesting from their exhibiting a 

 remarkable variation in form, mainly due to the difference in the 

 extent of room in which they grow. In general when isolated or 

 Avith ample space, the shells are comparatively broad and low, and 

 narrowed from their base of attachment to the aperture ; or they 

 are in the shape of short truncated cones, with the breadth as 

 great or greater than the length. When crowded more or less 

 close together, they assume a longer, narrower, cylindrical form, 

 expanding towards the mouth ; and thus they may become three 

 or four times the length of the breadth, with the shape of a tubular 

 corolla of a flower. They may be straight, variably curved and 

 compressed. The series of specimens presented exhibit the 

 following proportionate measurements : — 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



Height. Breadth at base — and then contracting to tlie mouth. 



12 mm. 12 10 



11 10 8 



10 13 10 



8 15 8 



The specimens of Littorina Utorea and of Purpura lapillu><. 

 presented were also collected at Bass Rocks where they occurred 

 in great abundance, and appeared to be the commonest gasteropods 

 of the localit}-. The former is described in the report on the 

 Invertebrata of Massachusetts, of Gould and Binue}', but the 

 onh- locality given for it is Halifax, while it is not noticed as 

 occurring at Yine^^ard Sound in the report of the U. S. Com- 

 mission of Fish, Pt. i, 18T3. 



September 12, 1882. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twent^'-seveu persons present. 



The death of Wm. H. Allen, a member, August 29, 1882, was 

 announced. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



NOTICE OF DR. ROBERT BRIDGES. 

 BY W, S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, M. D. 



Amidst the great population of the city, the Academy is com- 

 paratively a very small body ; in fact, a mere company addicted 

 to studies in which our fellow-citizens generally take not much 

 interest ; so little, indeed, that the}' hardly care to understand the 

 nature of the work done in the institution, or to appreciate its 

 value to the community. 



General literature, the drama, music, the fine arts, attract and 

 divert the people so satisfactoril}^ that belles-lettres writers, poets, 

 painters and sculptors who are skilful, are almost universally 

 admired, and become celebrated widely and attain a higher posi- 

 tion in public estimation than unobtrusive votaries of science, 

 whose real worth is rightly appreciated solely by the few. Only 

 pre-eminently great scientists and naturalists acquire position 

 among the hosts of men distinguished because they have aided in 

 some way the progress of civilization. The merits of individuals 

 of the rank and file, whose labors contribute largely to the success 

 and fame of the leaders, are too frequently' overlooked. 



The Natural Sciences occup}^ a boundless field. Its cultivation 

 is endless, and, when a societj^ undertakes it, requires laborers 

 of almost ever}^ variet}' of qualification and degree of intel- 

 ligence. Properly mounting, labeling, classifying specimens in 

 the museum, and cataloguing and arranging books in the library 

 for ready reference ma}^ be done b}' persons not qualified to 

 recognize or describe new species ; 3'et this comparativel}' inferior 

 kind of work is of much value in facilitating the labors of those 

 engaged in other parts of the field. The discovery and definition 

 of new genera and species, though of ver}^ great importance, are 

 not the sole objects of the society's pursuit. Successful generali- 

 zation demands a different kind of intelligence and more extensive 

 acquirements than special description of forms. 



A good name properly earned b^'^ an individual in any depart- 

 ment of our little community is in itself a contribution to the fair 

 reputation of the Acadeni}'^ ; and this is worth consideration, 

 because the good name of the institution carries with it an influ- 

 ence which is important to its progress and prosperity. A good 




1882.] NATDRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



name, therefore, is among the valuables of the corporation, to be 

 transmitted to future members, as a common inheritance. One who 

 contributes towards the advancement of science, either directly or 

 indirectly ; who leaves the Academy in better condition because 

 he has passed part of his life in it, is surel}- worthy of remem- 

 brance. Whenever one dies who has attained distinction within 

 our little world, through his services to the common cause, a 

 suitable record of his worth should be made, that his successors 

 may know to whom they are indebted and be reasonably grateful. 

 There have been and there are now members, who, on account of 

 their contributions towards the advancement of science and the 

 progress of the societ}^ are entitled to more than ordinary respect — 

 men whose conduct is worthy of admiration and imitation, at least 

 by all those who have like scientific tastes and tendencies. 



The records of the societj^ show that among these Dr. Robert 

 Bridges held a prominent place. A sketch of his career in the 

 Academy only is offered here. 



He was born in Philadelphia, March 5, 1806, and died in this 

 city, February 20, 1882, at the age of A'ery nearly seventy-six 

 years. 



Dr. Robert Bridges was elected a member of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, January, 1835. 



His first work was an Index of the Genera in the Herbarium,, 

 prepared by him and Dr. Paul B. Goddard, which he presented to 

 the Academ3\ August, 183o. 



He was elected Librarian, June 28, 1836, and served till Ma}' 

 28, 1839 — two years and eleven months — when he resigned. He 

 assisted in preparing and printing the first catalogue of the library. 

 The Academ}" presented its thanks to him for "the able and 

 eflficient discharge of the duties of librarian.'' 



In the course of the years 1839-40, he served as Recording 

 Secretary pro tempore, during five months. 



He was elected Corresponding Secretary, Maj-, 1840, and served 

 till December, 1841, one year and seven months. 



He was a Vice-President from September, 1850 — succeeding Dr. 

 R. Eglesfield Griffith, who died June 26— till December, 1864, 

 fourteen years and three months, when he was chosen President. 

 He declined re-election, Deceml)er, 1865. 



He was an Auditor six 3ears,from December, 1843, till Decem- 

 ber, 1849. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



He was a member of the Publication Committee from December, 

 1837, till December, 1838; and again from December, 1849, till 

 December, 18Y2,when hedeclinecl re-election, having served twenty- 

 three years. He was chairman of the committee from December, 

 1865, till December, 18T2. 



He was a member of the Library Committee twenty-nine years, 

 from December, 1842, till December, 1871, and chairman of it from 

 December, 1846, till December, 1853. 



He was a member of the Committee on Proceedings, seven j^ears, 

 from January, 1862, till January, 1869; and of the Finance Com- 

 mittee five years, from December, 1869, till December, 1874. 



He was elected a member of the Botanical Committee, January, 

 1836, was chairman of it from December, 1846, and served till 

 December, 1857, twenty-one j'ears, when he declined re-election. 

 For his official services the Academy voted him its thanks, 

 December 28, 1841. On the 23d of May, 1843, he presented a 

 New Index of the Herbarium^ and one of Menke's Herbarium, 

 from the Committee, a work which was long the main guide to 

 the botanical collections. 



He was elected a member of the Committee on Entomology and 

 Crustaca, Januarj', 1849, became chairman of it January, 1858, 

 and served till December, 1865, seventeen j^ears. He labeled, cata- 

 logued and arranged anew the collection of Crustaca according 

 to the nomenclature and classification accepted at that time as 

 the best. 



He was nine years a member of the Committee on Herpetology 

 and Ichthyology ^ from January, 1857, till January, 1866, and was 

 chairman of it from January, 1860, 



He was elected, January, 1866, a member of the Committee on 

 Physics; became chairman of it, January, 1868, and served till 

 Ma}^, 1876, ten j^ears and four months. 



He was a member of the Committee on Chemistry five 3'ears and 

 four months, from December, 1870, till May, 1876, when all the 

 standing committees were abolished. 



Under the By-Laws adopted May 25, 1869, a Council was 

 created. Dr. Bridges was elected a Councillor, December 28, 

 1869, and served till May, 1876, six years and four months. 



A committee was raised, June 30, 1846, to devise means of 

 accommodating the Due de Rivoli's collection of birds, which had 

 been just purchased by Dr. Thomas B. Wilson. Dr. Bridges was 




1882,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



appointed a member of the committee, which reported, August 

 4th, a plan for extending the building thirty feet westward. The 

 report was adopted, and the committee, then made the Building 

 Committee, was instructed to execute the plan. 



Again, December 30, 1851, Dr. Bridges was appointed a 

 member of a committee to solicit subscriptions to enlarge and 

 improve the hall. The committee reported, January 25, 1853, 

 that the estimated sum required had been subscribed. Dr. Thomas 

 B. Wilson, Dr. Robert Bridges and Mr. Wm. S. Vaux were ap- 

 pointed a Building Committee to execute the plans of improve- 

 ment. In behalf of the committee, Mr. Yaux reported, December, 

 1855, that the work of raising the previously' enlarged building 

 twenty-four feet had been completed at a cost of $12,263, which 

 had been paid. 



Dr. Bridges was appointed, December 26, 1865, one of a Com- 

 mittee of forty members to solicit subscriptions to erect a fire- 

 proof building for the use of the Academy, and he was elected, 

 January 8, 1867, a member of the Board of Trustees of the 

 Building Fund, and by it, January 11, 1867, a member of the 

 Building Committee, in which he was active till the society was 

 established in its new hall, January, 1876. 



Besides serving the society as Librarian, Recording Secretary, 

 Corresponding Secretary, Auditor, Vice-President and President, 

 member of numerous Standing Committees, as well as of very 

 mau}^ Special Committees, he contributed to its funds, to its librar}' 

 and to its museum. In all the many years of his activity he was 

 rarely absent from the meetings of the Academy, and discharged 

 all duties imposed upon him promptly and efficiently. 



His numerous official services, presented here in summary, 

 imply that he had the kindly respect and confidence of his fellow- 

 members ; and it may be said that the record of his labors expresses 

 all the eulogium required. Almost all his time not occupied by 

 his professional avocations was employed, during more than forty 

 years, in working faithfully,disinterestedly , to promote the acquire- 

 ment and diffusion of knowledge of natural history which are 

 the chief purposes of the society. He was remarkably courteous 

 to students, and always seemed pleased to assist them in their 

 inquiries and pursuits. His learning was varied and extensive 

 and minutely accurate, but he was so modest, unassuming, that it 

 was necessary to apply to him for information to perceive the 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



wealth of knowledge at his command. He was an expert chemist, 

 a good botanist, and well versed in almost all the natural sciences ; 

 yet he published little, and seldom engaged in debate. But his 

 good sense and independent judgment, his rigid probity and 

 loyalty to truth in everj' aspect, his punctual faithfulness to all 

 obligations, his cheerful and benevolent disposition and tranquil 

 deportment at all times, combined to render his presence in the 

 societ}^ a beneficial influence on its progress, an influence which 

 cannot be made manifest b}' instances or deflniteh' measured. 



His interest in the Academy was unremitting till the close of 

 his life. After impaired health prevented him from being active 

 in its aflFairs and from being present at the meetings, he often 

 found recreation during the day in passing hours reading in the 

 library. 



The Academy has had among its members many distinguished, 

 and some wealth}^ and beneficent friends, but none more constant, 

 none who has worked more industrioush' and eflficientl}' for its 

 advancement than Dr. Robert Bridges. His givings to it were as 

 generous as his comparatively narrow circumstances justly allowed. 

 No striking invention, no discovery in science is ascribed to him, 

 but laboriousness, sincerity of purpose and faithfulness were so 

 manifest in all his waj's that he had the confidence of all. He 

 earned for himself a good name in the society, and is entitled to 

 be long remembered among us, kindl}' and respectfully. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



CONCHOLOGIA HONGKONGENSIS. 

 BY T. W. EASTLAKE. 



The recent publications of Dr. 0. F. von Mollendorft' and Pere 

 Heude, S. J., have thrown a new light on the conchology of the 

 Yangtze-kiang River, and some of the provinces of Southern 

 China, in a ver}^ welcome manner. The land, whose conchology 

 found its pioneers in Swinhoe and Fortune, is becoming daily 

 better known to the scientists of Europe. Indomitable energy 

 and steady perseverance on the one hand, together with the keen 

 eye of the scientific traveler on the other, are establishing the 

 zoology of China — immense as is that country — on a firm scien- 

 tific basis. Still there is a wide field for investigation. The 

 transition stages of the zoology of Central Asia into that of 

 Western China, have 3'et to be carefully examined. Again, some 

 branches have been almost totally neglected. The entomology of 

 China is only known through the medium of Donovan's " Insects 

 of China," a work which, at present, has but little more scientific 

 value than that of a child's picture-book. Until recently, concho- 

 logy was still worse represented. A few remarks in the itineraries 

 of passing scientists, a chapter or two in the chronicles of 

 occasional expeditions, a short paper in the transactions of 

 zoological societies — these were the only sources from which any 

 knowledge of the conchology of China could be gleaned. 



Under these circumstances, the publication of the " Memoires 

 concernant I'Histoire Xaturelle de I'Empire Chinois," is heartilj- 

 welcome, and great credit is due to Pere Heude for his " Notes sur 

 les Molluscs de la Vallee du Fleuve Bleu." Still one cannot 

 refrain from regretting that the Rev. Father has undertaken such 

 a work without a thorough knowledge of conchology itself — a 

 neglect which is strongly apparent in the occasional confusion of 

 similar genera, and the application of new names to old and well- 

 known species. In this manner, no less than seven of Pere 

 Heude's Glausilise resolve themselves into varieties of Clausilia 

 aculus, Benson, originallv found in the Chusan Islands by 

 Swinhoe, and later at Kiu-kiang by von Mtillendorff. Pere 

 Heude's work adds over one hundred new species to the land 

 shells of the Yangtze-kiang. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Of far greater scientific value are Dr. von Molleudorff's papers, 

 which have appeared in the publications of the " Malakozoolo- 

 gische Gesellschaft," of Germanj'^, and in the Transactions of the 

 Bengal Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. Von Mollendorff 

 is a thorough scientist, and his new work on the '" Conchology of 

 Southern China" (shortly to appear) promises to be indispensable 

 as a text-book. 



It is remarkable that the Island of Hongkong should have 

 produced so many indigenous species. A British possession for 

 more than thirty years, hardly one scientific expedition has touched 

 the shores of this "barren rock in the ocean," without discovering 

 a new species. Of late years, Drs. von Mollendorff, Hungerford, 

 and the writer, have carefulh' gone over the greater part of the 

 island, not only discovering new species, but rediscovering others 

 which had disappeared since Stimpson's visit to Hongkong — 

 nearly thirty years ago. 



There are only a verj^ few places where shells are to be found, 

 as the larger part of the island consists of naked rocks, or is 

 sparsely covered b}^ Gleichenia dichotoma — a fern which is a sure 

 indication of the absence of terrestrial raollusca. In the valleys, 

 however, vegetation is luxuriant, and it is in these places that 

 most of the shells are to be found. The dense woods of Little 

 Hongkong (a Chinese village about 6 miles from the colony), and 

 the little valley near Sheko (10 miles from the colony), are favorite 

 resorts for collectors. Curiously enough, one of the highest peaks 

 on the island, known as High West (1608') is the only place where 

 some of the rarest species are to be found, in especial Helix 

 pulvinaris, Grould, and Cyclotus Chinensis, Pfeiffer. The whole 

 eastern side is covered with a dense growth of small ficus, 

 acanthaceae, and orchidaceous plants, and these, protected from 

 the violence of the northeast monsoon, form a favorite shelter for 

 the mollusca. Unluckily, the peak is only accessible from the 

 south, and thus almost the entire eastern side is beyond reach. 

 Still, one can descend safely thirty or forty yards below the peak, 

 although great precaution is necessary, for granite boulders 

 abound, and the slippery, as well as insecure footing these afford, 

 renders a greater descent impossible. 



The following is a rough list of the land snails found on the 

 island : — 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Cyolophorus exaltatus, PfeifiFer Little Hongkong. 



This is the commonest species of the Cyclostomidae, and is not 

 confined to the island, having been found by the writer some 

 distance in the interior of the Kwang-tung province. Found in 

 Hongkong by Fortune ; later by E. von Martens. Reeve, in his 

 Conchologia Iconica confounds C exaltatus with C. volvulus 

 (lituus) from Siam. That they resemble each other is true, but 

 C. exaltatus is always smaller, the shell is thinner and without a 

 ridge about the umbilicus. Closely related to this species is C. 

 Martensianus, v. Mlldff., found at Kiu-kiang by von Mollendorff 

 and Pere Heude ; by the writer at the Yung-fu monastery, Fukien 

 province. Cf. Jahrb. I, 1874, p. 78; II, 1875, p. 120. E. von 

 Martens, ibid., p. 127. 



Cyclophoms pellicosta, von MollendorfiF. High West. 



Originally described from the Lo-foo-shan, a range of mountains 

 near Canton Cit^'. Rare. 



Cyclophorus trichophorus ^Craspedotropis), v. Mlldff. Little Hongkong 



Described originally- from the Lo-foo-shan, near the monastery 

 of Washau. Since found b}- Dr. von Mollendorff at Ding-hu-shan 

 (Kwang-tung province), and at Little Hongkong by the writer. 



Cyclophorus (Leptopomoides) cuticosta von Mlldff. 



Found first in Hongkong by Drs. von Mollendorff" and Hunger- 

 ford, again at Tong-chow, not far from Macao, b}^ Dr. Hungerford 

 and the writer; finally, near the monastery of Yung-fu, in the 

 Fukien province, by the writer. 



Cyclotus Chinensis, Pfeiffer. High West. 



Had disappeared since 1850; rediscovered by Dr. von Mollen- 

 dorff. 



Alycaeas prula, Gould. 



For many years this shell was supposed to have disappeared 

 from Hongkong, but it was the writer's good fortune to find a 

 solitary specimen on High West (July 16, 1882j, a description of 

 which will shortly be published by Dr. von Mollendorff. E. von 

 Martens (Jahr. II, 1875, p. 127), writes that the species is not 

 known to him either through an engraving or any specimen. It 

 is closely allied to Alycaeus Kobeltiamcs, found by von Mollen- 

 dorff at Kin-kiang. 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Paxillus tantillus, Gould. 



This species has never been found since Stimpson's visit to the 

 island. It may, however, exist in the woods near Little Hong- 

 kong. 



Helicina Hungerfordiana, von Mlldff. 



Found at High West (Hongkong) by Dr. Hungerford, Dr. von 

 Mollendorff, and the writer ; at Tung-chow (near Macao) by Dr. 

 Hungerford and self. 



Helicarion imperator, Gould. Sheko and Little Hongkong. 



In 18T5 only five specimens were known in Europe. Confined 

 to Hongkong. 



Helix similar? s, Ferussac. Common. 



H. similaris, Fer. Prod., 1821 ; H. HoDgkongensis, Desh. ; H. obscura, Desh. 



There are evidentl}' two varieties of this shell in Hongkong. 

 The larger approaches somewhat H. ravida, Benson. Deshayes' 

 description of H. Hongkongensis proves that he was unacquainted 

 with tlie latter variety. 



Helix Gerlachi, von Mlldff. High West. 



Originally described from the Lo-foo-shan. 

 Helix xanthoderma, von Mlldff. Sheko. 



One of the rarest and largest shells of the island. Indigenous 

 to Hongkong. 



Helix (Gorilla) pulvinaris, Gould. High West. 



Exception may be taken to the clause of the description " den- 

 tibus extus non conspicuis," as the teeth are distinctly visible 

 through the aperture, as well as through the delicate shell itself. 

 One dead specimen picked up on the mainland opposite to the 

 island, considerably exceeded the size indicated by Gould. 

 H lix cicatricosa, Mliller. Hongkong. 



Originally from the Lo-foo-shan, now to be found in the Botanical 

 Gardens of Hongkong, whither it has evidently been transplanted. 



Helix trisinuata, Martens. Pheko. 



Yery rare. On the opposite coast, about seven miles from the 

 island, the writer found a Helix, which, though closely connected 

 with H. trisinuata^ yet presented striking peculiarities. This has 

 been named H. Easilakeana by Dr. von Mollendorff, for a descrip- 

 tion of which see the " Jahrbiicher der Malakozoologischen Ge- 

 f^ellschaft," 1881. The described Helix is still unique. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Helix, nova species, undescribed. High West. 



Helix (ruficrissa, von Mlldfif.), nova species, undescribed. Little Hongkong. 



Microcystis Schmackeriana, von M!ldff. 



Found in Hongkong (near Aberdeen), by Herr Schmaeker ; in 

 the Lo-foo-shan Mountains by Dr. von Mollendorff ; at Low-da on 

 the Yung-fu River, province of Fukien, by the writer. 



Helix (an Cochlostyla f) xanthoderma, von MlIdfiF. 



A. typus ? Diam. maj. 50, min. 43, alt. 45 mm. 



Habitat ad Montem Ma-on-shan,provinci8e sinensis Kuang-tung. 



B. forma minor. Diam. maj, 44, rain. 31, alt. 40 mm. 

 Habitat in insula Hongkong (Sheko). 



Stenogyra lOpeas' Fortunei, Pfeiffer. Common. 



Fortune found this shell near Shanghai, and Canton, according 

 to Reeve, in Macao (I have not found it there). There is con- 

 siderable doubt whether the Hongkong Stenogijra is in reality 

 Fortunei ; that it closely approximates the typical shell is be^-oud 

 question. 



Stenogyra (Opeas) chinensis, Pfeiffer. Common. 



Clausilia lorraini, Mencke. Sheko. 



Tolerably abundant ; confined to the Sheko Valley. 



Streptaxis sinensis, Gould. High West and Little H. 



Tolerably rare. Best specimens from Little Hongkong. Found 

 also at the Lo-foo-shan and elsewhere in the province of Kwang- 

 tung. 



Ennea bicolor, Button. 



This shell is one of the widest-spread of the Gonospirse, having 

 been found in Burmah (Gould), Cochinchina (Michau), Mauritius 

 (Benson), St. Thomas (Bland), and according to Benson, in 

 Cej'lon. Hutton first described it from Mirzapoor. In Hongkong 

 this beautiful Ennea is quite rare, and has been found in Sheko 

 by Dr. von Mollendorflf. 



Succinea chinensis, Pfeiffer. Botanical Gardens. 



This Succinia seems never to attain any large size in Hongkong. 

 Specimens from Amoy and Swatow in the writer's collection are 

 much better developed, and more characteristic of the species. 

 Macrochlamys su"er!ita, Morelet. Sheko. 



Perfect specimens verj' rare, as the shell is extremely fragile. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Besides the list given above there are two Microcystis, as yet 

 unnamed. One Microcystis (Uastlakeana, v. Mlldff.), found by 

 the writer near Little Hongkong ; the other tolerably common 

 on old walls and trees throughout the N. E. portion of the island. 

 Also one Conulus, frem High West, undescribed. 



Fresh- Water Snails. 



Limnsea oUula, Benson. Streams near L. Hongkong. 



Limnsea plicatula, Benson. Streams near L. Hongkong. 



This latter species is by far the rarer of the two. A variety of 

 L. plicatula has been found bj- Dr. v. Mollendorff and the writer 

 on the mainland, some twenty miles from Hongkong. 



Flanorbis compressns, Benson. Streams near Aberdeen. 



Planorbis Cantori, Benson. Victoria Peak. 



Corticula lutea, Morelet. Near Sheko. 



Of slugs there are only two species found on the island. 



Fhilomiciis bilineatas, Benson. 



Vaginulus chinensis, v. MlldfiF., nova specie?. 



Pallium supra confertim minute granulatum, obscure cinei^eo- 

 fuscum, maculis pallide fusco-flavidis ad margines crebrioribus 

 sparsum, medio striga flavida parum distincta notatum, infra 

 pallide flavogriseum, unicolor, pes flavidus. Tentacula superiora 

 nigra, inferiora pallida. 



Pallii long. 75, lat. 15 ; pedis lat. 5, tentac. sup. 6, inf. 3 mm. 

 In hortis insulae Hongkong. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphta. 231 



September 19, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty -four persons present. 



A paper entitled "Yerification of the Habitat of Conrad's 

 Mytilus bifurcatus," by R. E. C. Stearns, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



September 26, 1882. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



A paper entitled " Rotifera without Rotary Organs," by Prof 

 Jos. Leidy, was presented for publication. 



On the Tobacco-worm^ etc. — Prof Leidy exhibited a collection 

 of tobacco-worms, the larvae of Sphinx Carolina, which he had 

 obtained two days ago from a tobacco-field, near Columbus, New 

 Jersey, where they were very abundant, and had proved a great 

 pest in the cultivation of tobacco. The worms collected presented 

 a number of well-marked varieties, which were supposed to be all 

 of the same species. The principal ones were indicated as follows : 



1. Pea-green or yellowish green, more or less finely hairy, with 

 lateral oblique white bands bordered above with black dots which 

 extend to the dorsal median line ; head bright pea-green, dorso- 

 caudal spine red. This is the most common variety". 



2. Pea-green, smooth, with lateral oblique white bands joined 

 in front below b}'^ horizontal white bands so as to form a series 

 of >• -like marks, the apex of each joining the lower limb of the 

 one in advance ; head green ; dorso-caudal spine black. 



3. Grass-green, smooth, with lateral white Y-like marks as in 

 No. 2 ; the oblique bands bordered above by blackish or brownish ; 

 upper part, especially in front, more or less dotted with white; 

 head green, with a pair of black bands on each side ; dorso-caudal 

 spine black. 



4. Yellowish green, annulated with narrow black lines; with 

 lateral white Y-like marks, the oblique bands bordered above with 

 black ; head bright pea-green ; dorso-caudal spine red. 



5. Dull green, with more or less brown dorsally and dotted with 

 white, the dots more or less tuberculate, but otherwise smooth ; 

 with lateral white Y-like marks, the oblique band bordered above 

 with brown ascending to the dorsal median line ; head green with 

 a lateral pair of black bands ; dorso-caudal spine black. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



6. Chocoiate-brown to neariy black, smooth, -with white dots 

 dorsallj' and anteriorl}', with lateral white V-like marks ; head 

 shining black on each side ; dorso-caudal spine shining black. 



7. The same as No. 6, with lateral red Y-like marks. 



Among these more marked vai'ieties others were noticed which 

 were more or less of an intermediate character. The most common 

 variety was that which was least distinguishable in color from the 

 animal's location, the tobacco-leaf, so that it was especial!}' favored 

 in its preservation. 



Prof Leid}^ further remarked that the past season had appeared 

 to be favorable to many of the Lepidoptera. Our shade-trees had 

 been greatly ravaged by the Orgyia; many of the poplars had 

 suffered from the Glostera inclusa, and he had observed an unusual 

 quantity of the Ailanthus silk- worm, Attacus cynthia, upon the 

 Ailanthus-trees. The latter was introduced here in 1861, by Dr. 

 Thomas Stewardson. 



Dr. Wm. M. Grav was elected a member. 



October 3, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twent3"-seven members present. 



Apparent Bird Tracks by the Sea-shore Mr. Thomas Meehan 



called attention to what appeared to be the track of a three-toed 

 bird in the sand, near low-water mark, at Atlantic City. They 

 were generally'- regarded bj' observers as bird tracks. While 

 looking at them, recently, he noted that there were no birds about 

 to make such recent tracks, and also that the tracks would have 

 to be made in every case by a bird facing the water, which, in 

 the nature of things, would be improbable. While reflecting on 

 this, he noted on the face of the smooth receding waves, spots 

 where the water sparkled in the light, and he found this was caused 

 by little riplets as the wavelet passed down over the half exposed 

 bodies of a small crustacean, Hippa talpoidea, and that the water 

 in passing over the bodies, made the trifid marks which had been 

 taken for impressions of bird's feet. This little creature took 

 shelter in the sand near low-water mark, and entered head fore- 

 most in a perpendicular direction downwards, resting just beneath 

 the surface. The returning wave took some of the surface sand 

 with it, and thus the lower portions of the bodies, uppermost in 

 the sand, were exposed. Often the creatui-es would be entirely 

 washed out, when, recovering themselves, they rapidly advanced 

 in a direction contrary to the retreat of the wave, and entered the 

 wet sand again as before, their sides being parallel with the shore. 

 The body terminated in a caruncular point which, with the posi- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



tion of the two hind-legs, made a tridentate obstruction to the 

 sand brought down by the retreating wave, and the water passing 

 around the points made the three toe-like grooves which resembled 

 a bird's foot from one and a half to two inches long. The crea- 

 tures in their scrambles for protection beneath the sand, managed 

 to keep at fair distances from each other, and hence there was 

 considerable regularitj' in the tracks as if they had really been 

 produced by birds. 



He added that he presented the observation as a mere trifle, but 

 he could not help remarking that if by any means these trifid 

 impressions should get filled with mud, and the deposit become 

 solid rock, it would be very natural for observers, ignorant of 

 their origin, to mistake marks like these for the tracks of birds. 



Scent Organ of Papilio. — Mr. H. Skinner remarked that the 

 larvae of Papilio turnus and P. troilus when irritated, project 

 from a slit in the prothoracic segment, an orange-colored bifid 

 organ. The apparatus is a scent organ, and gives out a strong 

 and disagreeable odor perceptible at some distance, and seems to 

 be designed to defend the caterpillar from numerous enemies. 



The anatomy of the organ seems to have escaped investigation, 

 as most authors merel}' mention its existence, one describing 

 it simply as flesh3^ It has the appearance of being a solid organ, 

 but it is in reality hollow throughout the entire extent, and of 

 ver}^ thin texture, tapering gradually to a point. It is drawn in 

 by invagination, and is protruded after the same method. If the 

 larvffi be held so that the sunlight may pass through the extended 

 organ, the process of intussusception may be distinctly seen. 



Asymmetry of the Turbinated Bones. — Dr. Harrison Allen, in 

 the course of remarks on the asymmetry of paired structures in 

 mammals, invited the attention of the members to asymmetry in 

 the inferior turbinated bones of the human subject. This asym- 

 metry may exist independently of the deflection of the nasal 

 septum, and may involve the entire length of the bones. The 

 nasal chamber maj' also be asymmetrical, and even the choana of 

 one side be much smaller than the space of the opposite side. It 

 was thought that such asymmetry invohang the pterygoid pro- 

 cesses of the sphenoid bones, was due to early and probabl}^ 

 pre-natal influences, as opposed to the asymmetrj'' due to acquired 

 deflection of the septum. 



Some peculiarities of the floor of the nose which have not been 

 described, were defined. Among these was mentioned the eleva- 

 tion of the premaxilla as it lies on the floor of the nose above the 

 level of the horizontal plate of the superior maxilla. This eleva- 

 tion tended to conceal the inferior turbinated bone from inspection 

 from the anterior nares. Some forms of obstruction to nasal 

 respiration in man were thought hy the speaker to be due to the 

 conformation of the parts as described. A peculiar thickening of 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



the horizontal plates of the palatal bone, which was thought to be 

 within the range of normal variation, was next mentioned. 



The erectile character of the mucous membrane of the nasal 

 chambers, while best developed upon the middle and turbinated 

 bones, is also present about the organ of Jacobson. This phase 

 of ^e erectile tissue, while rudimental in the human subject, is 

 highly developed in the lower mammals, and is especially conspic- 

 uous in the domestic cat. Microscopical sections of the organs 

 with their related erectile masses were exhibited, and attention 

 invited to the probable use of the masses in guarding the anterior 

 orifices of the nasal chambers. The erectile tissue may be said 

 to open or close the orifices from within as the adductor and the 

 abductor muscles of the wings of the nostrils may close or open 

 them from without. 



The following were ordered to be printed :—r 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



VERIFICATION OF THE HABITAT OF CONRAD'S MYTILUS BIFURCATUS. 

 BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS. 



In the late Dr. Philip Carpenter's Report to the British Asso- 

 ciation (1856) on the Mollusca of the West Coast of North America, 

 paragraph 39, occur these words : 



"During the 3-ears 1834-5, Thomas Nuttall, Esq., for many 

 years Professor of Natural History at Harvard University, 

 Cambridge, U. S., visited the then almost unsearched shores of 

 California, by a journey across the Rocky Mountains, under the 

 escort of a trading company. Although his object was principally 

 botanical, his love of natural science induced him to collect all 

 the shells he could meet with ; and with such good success, that 

 man}' of his species have not to this day been again discovered. 

 The peculiar interest attaching to his researches is, that he did 

 not visit any part of the coast north of Oregon or south of San 

 Diego. There is no danger, therefore, of any admixture with the 

 shells of the Gulf district ; and his collections may be regarded as 

 the tj'pe of the Californian fauna strictly so-called. Leaving the 

 American shores, Mr. Nuttall visited the Sandwich Islands, 

 whence he onl}- brought one species belonging to the American 

 fauna, viz., Hipponyx Gray anus ^ on a Pinna. 



"On his return to the United States, via Cape Horn, the 

 description of the marine shells was undertaken by Mr. T. A. 

 Conrad, and the land and fresh- water species by Mr. Lea. The 

 latter gentleman communicated his paper to the American Philo- 

 sophical Societ}', where it will be found in the ' Transactions,' 

 vol. vi ; Mr. Conrad read his paper before the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, in January and February, 1837. It is 

 published in the second part of the ' Journal ' of the Society, vol. 



vii, pp. 227-268. 



* * * * * * * 



" The work bears the appearance of undue haste, * * * the 

 localities cannot always be depended upon, * * * and the descrip- 

 tions being in English would not have been entitled to claim 

 precedence, were it not that they are accompanied by tolerably 

 recognizable figures." ' 



1 Jour. Ac. N. S., v. 7, PI. 18, f. 14. Sp. 2184, Jay's Cat., p. 77, 4th ed., 

 1852. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



On page 109 of the same (1856) report of Carpenter's, he gives 

 Mytilus bifurcatus, Conr., Jay, 2184, " Sandwich Is." — "on rocks, 

 bare at low water — Conr."; and adds: "No knowledge of the 

 locality of this shell exists, except the statement of Conrad, which 

 alone is not binding, and its appearance among the Mexican War 

 shells, the collectors of which brought home nothing from the 

 Sandwich Islands." 



On page 563, in paragraph 62, of Carpenter's second report 

 (1863), in commenting on the species and figures in Reeve's 

 " Conch. Ic," he prints as follows : "41, Mytilus bifurcatus, Conr., 

 J. A. X. S. Phil., Hab.? [Conr. assigns his Xuttallian species to 

 California ; but it is the common Sandwich Is. species, teste Pse. 

 The Californian shell, with the same sculpture, is a Seplifer, and 

 is the S. bifurcatus of Mus, Cum.] " 



So far as regards the Sandwich Islands form, at this moment I 

 am without specimens for comparison, and am satisfied with 

 Pease's identification as to close resemblance. While Conrad 

 was very often somewhat careless in his work, in the case before 

 us he was correct, and Carpenter's criticism in this instance was 

 not deserved, as both Septifer and 3Iytilus, that is to say both 

 Reeve's and Conrad's species, are found at San Diego, and an 

 examination of numbers of specimens collected by different parties 

 during the past ten years, shows that an examination of the 

 interior of the valves is necessary in order to determine to which 

 group specimens belong. I have been unable, after the most 

 careful inspection, to find any external differences by which I 

 could separate them. 



The Septifer from the Gulf of California, in the Xantus col- 

 lection No. 118 = 169 of the Mazatlan Catalogue, I am not 

 familiar with, and would suggest its comparison with S. bifurcatus, 

 but Carpenter's Mytilus multiformis, No. 117 of the Xantus list 

 = 169 of the Mazatlan Catalogue,! should regard as the southern 

 form of Conrad's Mytilus bifurcatus. Specimens of the two 

 species are contained in my collection, in that of the Philadelphia 

 Acadeni}', and in the National Museum, Washington. 





DROC OF ACAD OF NAT SC 



)-6.ACYCLUS INQUIETUS . 7 DICTYOPHOHA VORAX 

 8-9. PYXICOLA ANNUI_ATA. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



ROTIFEEA WITHOUT EOTARY OEGANS. 

 BY PROF. JOSEPH LEIDY. 



The Rotifera or Wheel-animalcules, form a small class, abundant 

 in kind and found almost everywhere in association with Algre, 

 and with Infusorians to which thej* were formerly considered 

 to belong. Later they have been recognized as not having the 

 simple cell structure of the latter, and for a time were regarded 

 as pertaining to the Crustacea. They are now commonl}'^ looked 

 upon as belonging to the group of Worms, but their relative 

 position cannot j^et be considered as positively determined. 

 They generally possess a chitinous integument with a more or lesg 

 annulate disposition or tendency' to articulate division ; but they 

 are destitute of limbs. Some are provided with a carapace and 

 recall crustacean forms, but in other points they exhibit but little 

 likeness to them. Their usually striking characteristic, the rotary 

 disks, from which the}" are named, is not possessed by an}' well- 

 marked Crustacean. Among the Rotifera, however, there appear 

 to be some which do not possess the rotary- organs, at least in the 

 mature condition, and j'et in all other respects the animals conform 

 in structure with ordinary forms, 



Dujardin (Infusoires, 1841, 653, PI. 22, fig. 2) was the first to 

 describe a Rotifer destitute of rotar}' organs, to which he gave 

 the name of Lindia torulosa. It is a free, swimming, worm-like, 

 telescopic form, common in the class. 



Gosse (Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist.,1851, viii, 199) described 

 an allied form, Avithout rotary organs, under the name of Taphro- 

 campa annulosa. 



Cohn (Zeits. f. wissens. Zoologie, 1858, 28t, Taf. xiii, fig. 1, 2) 

 described a Rotifer resembling Lindia., but possessing rotaiy 

 organs. He supposes it to be the same ; and suspects that in the 

 animal observed by Dujardin, the rotary disks had been withdrawn, 

 in a manner common to the class. He remarks»that the existence 

 of a Rotifer, without vibratile cilia, would be a rude abnormity in 

 the class, the more so because the possession of cilia is the most 

 important character which separates the Rotifers from the Crus- 

 taceans. 



In a marginal note I find that some years ago, at Newport, 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



R. I., I observed a Rotifer apparently devoid of rotary organs, 

 which I took to be the Lindia of Dujardin. 



However, even previously to Cohn's communication (see these 

 Proceedings, 1857, 204), I described an animal which I regarded 

 as a Rotifer, without doubt entirely destitute of the characteristic 

 rotary organs or any trace whatever of vibratile cilia. It was 

 named Dictyophora vorax ; and it is quite different in form from 

 the preceding animals. It is spheroidal, inarticulate, without 

 carapace, or jointed tail ; and possesses a large protractile and 

 retractile pouch or cup, as a substitute for the ordinary rotary 

 disks. It is attached to fixed objects, and has been observed on 

 several occasions adherent to stones and the glass of an aquarium. 

 The description of the animal, unaccompanied by illustration, 

 stems never to have attracted attention. 



Some years subsequently, Meczinchow (Zeits. f. wis. Zoologie, 

 1866, 346, Taf. xix) described a similar Rotifer to mine, under 

 the name of Apsilus lentiformis. It was found, at Giessen, 

 attached to the leaves of Nymphsea lutea. It is larger than 

 Dictyophora, and differs mainly in the possession of bristled 

 tentacles (" Gefiihlorgane ") and a ganglion to the pouch, neither 

 of which were observed by me in Dictyophora. 



The following year, Claparede (An. d. Sc. Nat,, 186T, viii, 12, 

 PI. 4, figs. 3, 4) described another Rotifer, without the charac- 

 teristic organs, under the name of Balatro calvus. It resembles 

 the earlier described forms, and was observed to be parasitic on 

 worms, in the River Seime, Canton of Geneva. 



A short time since, Mr. S. A. Forbes (Am, Month. Micros. 

 Jour., 1882, 102, 151), of Normal, Illinois, described a Rotifer, 

 destitute of rotary disks, with the name of Gupelopagus bucinedax. 

 It was found attached to the glass of an aquarium, and it appears 

 to me to be so nearly like Dictyophora vorax, that I suspect it to 

 be the same. 



More recently, while examining some Plumatella diffusa from 

 the Schuylkill River, below Fairmount dam, my attention was 

 attracted to several groups of 3Iegalotrocha alba, attached to the 

 tubes of the former, and surrounding another animal of strange 

 and novel character. This on examination proved to be another 

 remarkable Rotifer, without rotary organs, and it is the interest 

 which attaches to this discovery which has led to the present 

 communication. As with many analagous things, I had not the 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



leisure to give it due study, and yet I felt that if I reserved it for 

 future investigation, I might never meet with a more favorable 

 opportunity for the purpose. 



The new Rotifer I propose to name Acyclus inquietus, from its 

 being destitute of wheels, or ciliated disks, and from its apparently'- 

 restless habit. It is considerably larger than Megalofrocha, 

 measures nearly a half line long, and can readily be distinguished, 

 in groups of the latter, with the naked eye. It was observed in 

 eight instances, in each, alone and alwaj^s enclosed in a group of 

 the Megalotrocha, above which, from its greater size, it towered 

 like a giant in a crowd. In its constitution, for the most part it 

 resembles Megalofrocha, and is attached in the same manner. In 

 its movements it bends rather abruptly in different directions and 

 curves downward so as to bring its prehensile mouth on a level 

 with the currents produced by the rotary disks of the surrounding 

 Megalotrochae. Sometimes alone or in company with the latter, 

 it suddenly contracts and then more slowly elongates and resumes 

 its bending motions, scarcely for a moment appearing in an erect 

 attitude. Occasionally it will even double on itself to such a 

 degree that the extremities are approximated, or as the motion is 

 commonly expressed, the head nearly touches the end of the tail 

 or point of attachment. The movements of the creature recalled 

 to me those of the avicularia of some of the marine Polyzoa,or of 

 the pedicellaria of Echini. 



At one time I had the opportunity of seeing an individual of 

 Plumatella with outspread arms, and in its immediate vicinit}^ a 

 group of Megalotrochae with open disks and an Acyclus in its 

 midst, together with two worms of the genus Dero, with extended 

 and expanded branchial tails, all acting together in concert, 

 apparently- perfectly regardless of the presence of one another — 

 messmates partaking of the same repast. 



Acyclus is translucent whitish with the thicker part of the body 

 yellowish or brownish, due to the color of the capacious intestine 

 shining through the integument. It was difficult to obtain a clear 

 and accurate view of the exact mode of attachment and the internal 

 structure of the animal, from its incessant motions, its becoming 

 wrinkled in contraction, and from its being obscured by the 

 surrounding bunch of Megalotrochse. In the attempt to remove 

 these, the Acyclus was detached and then would contract to such 

 a degree, that nothing could be determined as to the arrangement 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



of its organs. Under the circumstances tlie accompanying figure 

 1, Plate II, of the animal, is to be regarded as only approx- 

 imatel}' correct. Most of the individuals seen were naked, like 

 Megalotrocha, but had adherent a profusion of eggs. In two 

 instances the animal was included in a copious colorless gelatinous 

 sheath, as represented in the figure, but had also adherent a large 

 bunch of eggs, in one of which bunches I counted upwards of fifty. 



The head of Acyclus substitutes the rotary disk of the Megal- 

 otrocha and other Rotifers provided with this organ. It is in the 

 form of a cup prolonged at the mouth into an incurved beak, as rep- 

 resented in figures 1-4. It is retractile and protrusile, contractile 

 and expansile. When protruded and expanded the mouth gapes 

 widely, and the beak becomes more extended, but always remains 

 incurved. The mouth is bordered bj^ a delicate membrane 

 extending to the rounded end of the beak and presenting a 

 festooned appea,i);ance. In contraction of the mouth the marginal 

 membrane becomes inflected, the orifice constricted, and the beak 

 more incurved. In contraction of the head or oral cup, it is 

 reduced to half the bulk of its expanded condition, while the 

 mouth is constricted and the beak is rolled in a single spiral 

 inwardly as seen in figures 2, 3. 



The extension of the head below forms a narrowed and trans- 

 versely wrinkled neck which expands into the body. The 

 expansion and contraction of the head appear to be due to tRe 

 flow of a milky liquid between the coelum or body-cavity and 

 intervals in the walls of the oral cup or head. The retraction of 

 the latter is produced by longitudinal muscles, which may be seen 

 in the wall of the cup extending from the wall of the body just 

 below the neck to the festooned membrane bordering the mouth. 



Tiie movements of the mouth with the partial extension and 

 involution of the beak, together with the general movement of the 

 animal, were strongly suggestive of those of the proboscis of an 

 elephant. 



The oral cavity converges in a funnel-like manner to a pouch 

 occupjang the neck. The pouch is seen to contract and expand 

 from time to time, but it was indistinctly defined. At the 

 bottom of the pouch there is a small mastax or muscular pharjmx 

 provided with minute jaws. These parts were but indistinctly' seen, 

 and indeed the jaws could be detected only after compressing the 

 animal and examining it with the yV objective glass of the micro- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 247 



scope. The jaws are composed of a parallel series of about twenty 

 teeth. 



The body of the animal is fusiform or elliptical and narrows 

 into a long tail, attached by the end. In contraction, the body 

 and tail become more or less wrinkled transversely, as in Megalo- 

 trocha. The tail is occupied by retractor muscles extending from 

 the walls of the body. The cavity of the latter is occupied by a 

 capacious stomach, elliptical in shape and extending from the 

 mastax to the root of tlie tail, but its mode of termination I did not 

 detect. The anal aperture occupies a position near the latter, but 

 its exact character I also failed to determine. The interval of 

 the stomach and wall of the body is occupied by the ovaries and 

 ova. In the vicinity of the lower extremity of the stomach there 

 were several yellow spherical balls ; a large one with concentric 

 layers, and several small ones apparently of the same nature. The 

 character of these I could not make out. An ovum was observed 

 to be discharged in the vicinity of the anal aperture, but its outlet 

 was not distinguished. The ova are large and oval, and exhibit 

 no signs of segmentation at the time of extrusion. 



The embryo, figs. 5, 6, developed in the egg exterior to the 

 parent, at the time of its escape is a soft worm-like body, with a 

 blunt head end and tapering behind to a rounded tail end in the 

 dorsal view. The head end, not distinct from the body, is 

 Tetractilcf and the terminal mouth is furnished with vibratile 

 cilia, which are also retractile. The posterior part of the body 

 is indistinctly divided and is retractile in a telescopic manner. In 

 the lateral view the tail end appears slightl}^ notched or furcate, 

 with one branch longer than the other. The head exhibits a pair 

 of minute red e^-e-points, and a short distance behind, it presents 

 a minute pointed papilla, with a still more minute bristle at the 

 summit. The embryo swims and moves about x^ry much in the 

 manner of the common Rotifer, often adhering by tlie tail end, 

 retracting head or tail and successiveh' elongating. 



The chief distinctive characters of the animal thus described are 

 as follows : 

 Acyclus inquietas. 



Body fusiform, tapering behind into a long narrow tail-like 

 appendage, by whicli it is attached, not distinctly annulated, but 

 becoming transversely wrinkled in contraction. A non-ciliated 

 cup-like head prolonged into an incurved digitiform appendage 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



(as a substitute for the usual trochal disk), contractile and 

 retractile. 



Length of the animal from 1*2 to 1*5 mm. ; breadth of body 

 0*15 to 0*21 mm. Length of head, with moderate extension of 

 the digitiform appendage, 0*216 to 0*27 mm. ; breadth, 0*15 to 

 0-18 mm. Ova, 0-1 to 0-133 long, by O'OG to 0-09 mm. broad. 

 Embryo, 0*36 mm. long by 0'06 wide at the head end. 



With the figures of Acyclus, for comparison with this and other 

 Rotifers devoid of trochal disks which have been described, I 

 have given one, fig. 7, of Dictyophora, drawn from observation of 

 the animal some years subsequent to its discovery. The creature 

 was attached to objects in, and to the inner surface of, an aquarium 

 and could not be examined advantageoush^ ; and I had deferred 

 my investigation of the animal to a more favorable opportunity. 

 Under the circumstances the drawing must be viewed as only 

 approximately^ correct. As previously indicated, the original 

 description of Dictyophora vorax occurs in these Proceedings for 

 1857. Since tlien I have had several opportunities of observing 

 it, and it appears readily to be introduced and reproduced in an 

 aquarium with water and aquatic plants from the rivers of our 

 vicinity. 



Dictyophora is oval or ovoid, with the narrower pole, corre- 

 sponding with the position of the mouth, truncated, and it adheres 

 by a small disk or sucker to one side of the broader pole. The 

 animal has the power of turning on its point of attachment, but 

 whether it has the power of detaching itself at any time I did not 

 ascertain, though the same individual appeared after some days 

 not to have changed its position. 



The body is transparent, colorless, and even, and exhibits no 

 signs of annulation, nor does it become transversely wrinkled by 

 contraction. The external chitinous wall presents an appearance 

 of scattered granules or minute tubercles. The interior exhibits 

 the digestive apparatus and other organs, mostly more or less 

 obscured by an accumulation of eggs in various stages of devel- 

 opment. 



From the truncated extremity of the body, the animal projects 

 a capacious delicate membranous cup, forming more than half a 

 sphere and more than half the size of the body. At will the cup 

 is entirely withdrawn into the body and the orifice of this becomes 

 contracted and puckered into folds radiating from a central point 




1882.] XATLUAL SCIKNCES OF PIIILADKLPHIA. 249 



or orifice. When protruded the cup expands outwardly like an 

 opeiiin<2: umbrella, and when fully expanded equals the breadth of 

 the body with more than half its depth. It is provided with an 

 irregular reticulation of delicate muscles, mostly longitudinal and 

 . a few transverse, and scarcely distinguishable from wrinkles. 

 Other muscles, acting as retractors, extend from the membranous 

 cup to the inner wall of the body of the animal. The cup or net 

 substitutes the ordinary trochal disks of Rotifers and appears as 

 a most efficient means in catching the animalcules which serve as 

 food to Dicfi/ophora. 



The inx'hcnsile cup opens into a capacious sac which is within 

 the body and occupies a good portion of its upper half. Tlie sac 

 at bottom communicates with a mastax nearly' central in jjositiou. 

 This is provided with a pair of jaws each consisting of a larger 

 tooth and a vertical series of four smaller ones. Tlie jaws are 

 observed to be in frequent motion, as usual in Rotifers. 



The mastax opens into a capacious sacculated stomach of a 

 lu'ownish or yellowish color. The outlines of the different por- 

 tions of the alimentary apparatus are difficult to make out fiom 

 their being more or less obscured l)y the ova with embryos con- 

 tiguous to them. Muscular fibres pass from the viscera to the 

 outer wall of the coelum, or body-cavity. Adherent to this wall 

 there are situated at different points whitish bodies, similar to 

 those seen in other animals of the class, the nature of which is 

 unknown. 



Numerous ova, in all conditions from the earliest to those 

 wiiich contain fully developed embryos, occupy the bod3M-avity 

 of Dicti/ojihora, sometimes in such numbers as to obscure everv- 

 thing else from view. 



Various specimens of Dicti/ophora with extended cup measured 

 from Oi) to 1 mm. in length. Closed specimens from O'So to O-fi 

 mm. long by 0'28 to 0*5 mm. broad. Ordinarily the l)ody measured 

 from 0-45 to O'O mm. long b^- 0'3.") to 0-5 mm. broad. Tlie cup in 

 several ranged from 0-26 to 0*5 mm. botli in height and breadth. 



The animal is exceedingly sensitive, and witli tlie slightest 

 disturbance withdraws its net. It feeds especially on smaller 

 animalcules, and in one instance upw'ards of fifty of these were 

 squeezed from the stomach. 



From Ajjsilus 1en(ifo7"mis,vf\nch Dicfi/iipJiara closel}- resembles, 




250 PROCEKDINCS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



it (lifters especially in the absence of the lateral antenna^, and the 

 conspicuous ganglion of the cephalic cup. 



While Lindia, Taphrocampa and Balatro raav be open to the 

 suspicion of possessing ciliary rotiform disks, which perhaps 

 were concealed when the animals were observed, the same cannot 

 be the case with Dictyophora^ Apsilus and Acyclus. 



As remarked l)y Mr. Forbes, the former name had been pre- 

 occupied ; and thus if the Cupelopagus should jirove to be the 

 same, this name may properly- sujjply its place. 



REFERENCES TO PLATE II. 



Figs. 1-G. Acyclus inquietus. 



Fig. 1. The animal extended, enclosed with eggs, in a gelatinous sheath. 

 Magnified 9G diameters. 



Figs. 2, 3. Different degrees of contraction of the head-cup. Magnified 

 96 diameters. 



Fig. 4. Anterior view of the head cup. 3Iagnified 16G diameters. 



Figs. 5, 6. Front and side view of the embryo. Magnified 80 diameters. 



Fig. 7. Dictyophora vorax. Animal with its head-cup extended. Mag- 

 nified 75 diameters. 




1882.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 251 



October 10. 

 TLe President, Dr. Leidy. in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Snares of Orb-Weaving Spiders," by the 

 Rev. Henrv C. McCook, was presented for publication. 



October 17. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty -six persons present. 



On the Mode of Entrance of the Sporidia of Parasitic Fungi. — 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited specimens of Panicum sangainale 

 L., the "■ Crab-grass '' or " Fall-grass " of the Nortliern States, 

 which were infested with a species of smut, according to Mr. Ellis 

 allied to Ustilago juncei,^ but which were of interest chiefl}- for 

 the light they might throw on the still disputed question, whether 

 the sporidia of the lower forms of fungi were introduced to the 

 infested j^laut from the outside, or in some way through the 

 circulatory S3^stem. There seemed to be some difficulties in the 

 way of the belief that the introduction could be through the 

 roots, and the spores find their way through the plant-structure 

 to the surface — and yet there were some positive facts on record, 

 which, unless controverted, showed, impossible as it might seem 

 from a phj'siological and structural poiut of view, that there were 

 good reasons for that belief. He referred to papers by Dr. E. 

 Queckett, in the " Transactions of the Linnsean Society,'' especially 

 the one published in vol. xix, p. 13T, detailing experiments with 

 potted plants of rye and other grains watered with water in which 

 the sporidia of the ergot had been infused. The plants so watered 

 in ever}' case reproduced tlie ei'got in the grain of the growing- 

 plants — and in no case did ergot appear in the plants which had 

 ordinaiy water applied to tliem. 



The case now exhibited tended to strengthen the observations 

 of Queckett. Usually specimens of affected grass might be found 

 where the herbage was growing in a mass, and a person could not 

 tell whether the specimens were all from one plant or not. In this 

 case the specimens of Panicum were all growing in a cultivated 

 field, and in tufts distinct from one another. The plant from 



' Since this communication was made, Mr. Ellis identified the fungus 

 with Ustilago Rahenhorstianu. 



17 




252 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882> 



■which these specimens were gathered, was surrounded b}' others, 

 the culms of these surrounding ones interlacing those of the plant 

 exhibited, but onl}- this one plant was infected. He did not count 

 the number of culms, but felt safe in saA'ing there were over fift5\ 

 In walking through this field among man}^ hundreds of plants of 

 this Panic tun, he saw only one other plant, which in like manner 

 was infested. This had one perfect panicle onh' among the 

 numerous infested ones — the interlacing branches of surrounding- 

 plants of the same species being free, as in the other instance. 

 It was scarcel}' credible that sporidia of the U.^tilago, floating 

 through the atmosphere, settled on, fifty separate culms of one 

 plant, and not one on the culms of adjacent plants which were 

 growing in and among them. Again, the leaves of the Panicum 

 have a large spathaceous sheath, two or three inches long. The 

 Ustilago attacked the panicle while closely swathed in this sheath, 

 and full}- perfected its growth entirely therein. He had indeed 

 to unfold the sheath in order to detect the mass of '• smut " to 

 which the embryonic panicle was reduced, in order to detect its 

 presence. Onl}' the peculiar appearance of the grassy tuft having 

 no inflorescence as in the case of its neighbors, drew attention to 

 the plant in the first instance. If it seemed incredible that fifty 

 culms interlocked with as many from other plants, should each 

 receive a germinating spore alone, it was still more incredible that 

 the spores should have found their wa}' from the outside to the 

 interior of these tightly twisted sheaths. 



These observations did not prove that the sporidia entered the 

 plant b}^ the roots, and made their wa}"" in some incomprehensible 

 manner through the structure to the inflorescence ; but they did 

 render the external-entrance hypothesis doubtful, and, in connection 

 with Quecketfs experiments, are possibly of some worth. 



Dr. Leidy made some remarks on Mr. Meehan's communication, 

 showing that the tendenc}- of modern observations rather favored 

 the view that the entrance of the sporidia of microscopic fungi 

 wafr from the outside. 



Sexual Characters in Cepha/ofa.ras. — Mr. Meehan exhibited 

 some fruit of Ccphalota.ra.^ Forfunii. a Chinese tree, this plant 

 growing on the grounds of P. J. Berckmans, at Augusta, Georgia. 

 This tree had for many years produced male flowers onl3\ During 

 1882, it produced abundance of fruit. It showed that the genus 

 was not truly diwcious, and further it afforded an illustration 

 now not uncommon, that trees a long time of one sex only, would 

 sometimes change to another. Sex is not an invariable char- 

 acteristic in an individual tree. 



A New In/i'sorian belongin;/ to the ( ten us Pi/.ricola. — Prof. 

 Leidy exhibited drawings of an infusorian, a species of Pt/xicola^ 

 which appeared to be different from those previously described. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA. 253 



It is of frequent occurrence, attached to the tubes'of Phimalella, 

 UrnateUa and Gordylophora, on stones, in the Schuyllvill River, 

 below Fairmount dam. In shape it resembles PyxicoJo, j)usilla 

 and P. affinis, fresh-water forms of England, but is annulate as in 

 P. socialis, a salt-water form. It is represented in figs. 8 and 9, PI. 

 II, and presents the following characters : — 



Pyxicola annulata. Lorica urceolate, slightly curved, inflated 

 towards the middle, tapering below, cj-lindrical and feebly con- 

 tracted at the neck, and with the aperture oblique and circular ; 

 variably annulate, mostl}' at the neck, often at the middle; color 

 chestnut-brown, but colorless when young ; pedicle short, alwaj^s 

 colorless. The contained animalcule is of the usual shape ; with 

 an attached operculum, which is of the same color as the lorica, 

 and is protruded beyond this when the animal is fully extended. 

 Length of lorica, 0.52 to 0.T92 mm. ; breadth, 0.02 to 6.0264 mm. ; 

 length of pedicle, .004 to .008 mm. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [188'2. 



SNARES OF ORB-WEAVING SPIDERS. 

 By Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



The characteristics upon which the true spiders should be 

 classified into principal groups have not been agreed upon by 

 araneologists. Without entering upon the discussion I have 

 accepted the arrangement of Prof. Thorell of Upsala, which is sub- 

 stantially that of Latreille, and is based upon the spinning habits 

 of the animal. That it is open to objection, can readil}- be shown ; 

 but on the whole it appears more satisfactory than an}^ other. In 

 accordance with this arrangement we have two great groups or 

 divisions: ^firsf^ the Sedentary Spiders, whose habit is to remain 

 (for the most part) upon or in tlieir web and capture their prey 

 by means of snares; .^eeo^f/, the Wandering Spiders, who hunt 

 their food upon the ground, the water or trees. The first division 

 is subdivided into sections according to the general character of 

 the web; the second, according to the chief peculiarity of the 

 spider's action or gait. 



The following tabulated statement will })resent this arrange- 

 ment : — 



CLA.SS ARACHNIDA. 



ORDER ARANEA. 



I. First l)iinsio)7. 

 Sedentary Spiders. 



Section 1. Orbitelarise, Orb-weavers. 



" 2. Retitelariai, Line-weavers. 



" 3. Tubitelaria?, Tube- weavers. 



'* 4. Territelaria', Tunnel- weavers. 



II. Second Divisw)}. 

 Wandering Spiders. 



Section 5. CitigTadff>,^ Citigrades. 

 " 6. Laterigradse, Laterigrades, 

 " 1. Saltigrada\ Saltigrades. 



' Prof. Thorell assigns the Laterigrades to the 5th section, the Citi- 

 grades to the Gth. I have ventured to so far change this arrangement as 

 to reverse the positions of tlie Laterigrades and Citigrades. Tlie Citigrades 

 appear to me to approach the Tubeweavers, both in structure and economy, 

 more nearly than the Laterigrades. So also the step from the Citigrades 

 to the Laterigrades though the genus Dolomedes appears moi'e natural 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



This arrangement, based in the main upon the economy of the 

 animal, will be found to harmonize closely with the classification 

 into fjxmilies, genera and species based upon structural character- 

 istics. 



I propose in this paper to apply this principle of arrangement 

 according to economy to the first section of the Sedentary 

 Spiders — the Orb-weavers. It should be luiderstood that the 

 classification proposed is simpl}' tentative, and in its present 

 form is incomplete. It is given with the hope that it may lead to 

 something better by fixing the attention of the very few students 

 of our spider-fauna, among whom no such grouping has hitherto 

 been proposed. Moreover, it is hoped that the arrangement may 

 have some interest to naturalists generally as bearing upon the 

 correspondence between structure and economy and the value of 

 habit as a factor in classification. 



An orb-web may be defined as a series of right lines radiating 

 from a common centre, and crossed at intervals by other right 

 lines attached at the points of contact and covered by viscid beads. 

 Orb-webs are divided generally into Vertical snares and Horizontal 

 snares, according as they are perpendicular to, or parallel with, the 

 plane of the horizon. The Vertical snares I have subdivided 

 into (I) Full Orb, (2) Sectoral Orb, (3) Actinic Orb, (4) Orb 

 Sector; the Horizontal Snares into (5) Plane Orb, (6) Domed 

 Orb. I present the following table : — 



ORB-WEA-VERS' SNARES. 

 I. VERTICAL SNAKES. 



Snare spun vertically ; spider hanging at the centre of the 

 converged radii, or in a silken or silk-lined den. 



1. Full Orbs. 



Lines crossing all the radii spirall3^ (Forming complete circles.) 

 i. Himph' Snai'es. — Simple orb of radiating straight lines and 



concentric circles. 



a. The hub meshed. Epeira insularis, E. slrix.^ 



h. The hub open ; central space I'ibboned or tufted. Acrosoma 



y'ugosa, A. Kjiinea^ A. initrata^ (iasteracantha cancer. 



than the reverse, as Thorell has it ; and the step to the Saltigrades from 

 the Laterigrades is quite as, if not more, natural tlian from the Citigrades. 

 From the standjjoint of economy alone the passage is certainly easier. 

 ' These are representative species of a large group. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



e. The central space ribboned, cocoons and debris attached to 

 the ribbon. Gyrtophora caudata. 



ii. Compound Snares. — Orb partly surrounded by an irregular 

 mass of crossed lines. 



a. Central space sheeted or ribboned ; wings or guards of crossed 

 lines. Argiope riparia, A. fasciata. 



b. Hub meshed ; mass of line-weaving above containing the 

 spider's home and cocoons. Epeira labyrinthea. 



2. Sectoral Orb. 



Radii crossed by lines forming nearly complete circles, 

 i. Simple Snares. 



a. Hub meshed (?) ; the beaded spirals divided into bands by 

 an unbeaded line and space. Nephila pAum^ipes. 



ii. Compound Snares. 



a. Hub meshed ; tubular den or tent in the retitelarian web. 



Upeira glohosa. E. thaddeus.^ 



3. Actinic Orb. 



Snare composed of several rays or orb-sectors bound together 

 into an orb. 



i. Simple Snares. 



a. Hub wanting ; a large, irregular, open central space. The 

 radii prolonged into a trap-line. Epeira radiosa. 



4. Orb Sector. 



Snare, a sector of an orb. 



i. Simple Snares. 



a. Sector composed of four radii converging upon a single 

 trap-line ; radii crossed by notched lines. Hyptiotes cavata. 



II. HORIZONTAL SNARES. 



Snare spun horizontally ; spider usually hanging beneath. 

 6. Plane Orb. 



Snare, a circular plane. 



i. Sim,ple Snares. 



a. Hub open. Tetragnatha extensa ; T. grallalor. 



h. Hub finely notched ; central space ribboned. Uloborus 

 riparia. 



ii. Compound Snares. — A maze of crossed lines spun below the 

 orb. 



a. Hub open. Epeira hor tor um ; E. gibberosa.^ 



^ The generic classification of Hentz is here retained. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



257 



6. Domed Orb. 



Snare elevated into a dome by a pvraniidal mass of crossed 

 right lines. 



i. Concentric lines all notched ; spider hanging beneath the 

 centre. Epeii-a basilica. 



Several technical terms in this table, which I have been com- 

 pelled to invent, require explanation. I have divided an orb-web 

 into three parts. First, beginning at the onter margin, the 

 Foundation Space, the open space between the foundation lines or 



frame, and the beaded spirals ; 

 second, the Spiral Space, that 

 part covered by the spiral lines ; 

 third, the Central Space, the 

 central circle enclosed by the 

 spiral space. The central space 

 is subdivided into three parts, 

 first the hub, the small open 

 or meshed circle upon which 

 the radii meet ; second, the 

 Xotched Zone, a series of un- 

 beaded spirals lying next to 

 the hub which do not cross 

 the radii directly, but a little 

 above the point of contact ; 

 and third, the Free Zone, a 

 part free from crossed lines 

 between the notched zone and the spiral space. 



FS=Found:ition space. 



SS=Spiral space. 



CS=Central space, 

 r FZ=Frce zone. 

 J. NZ=Notche(l zone. 

 ( H=Hub. 




268 proceedings of the academy of [1882. 



October 24, 1882. 

 Mr. Jacob Binder in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



On the Habits of the Ant-Lion Rev. Dr. H. C McCook 



remarked that, through the kindness of Mr. C H. Baker, he had 

 had an opportunity to observe closel}^ some of the habits of 

 the larva of Myrmeleon obsoletus Say. Several of these grubs 

 had been taken from the sand}' soil of New Jersey during the 

 month of July, and brought to the Academy at Philadelphia in a 

 large bowl. Their pits were of the usual character — an inverted 

 hollow cone — but were sharper at the apex than usually repre- 

 sented. The pit is sometimes made b}' a backward movement of 

 the grub upon a spiral line which gradually closes upon the centre. 

 The body is just under the sand during this movement ; and the 

 grains of sand which fall upon the liead are continually thrown 

 upward by a sharp jerk of the head ; this motion is somewhat 

 lateral, not unlike the " butting " of a sheep or goat. 



A pit is also formed by the grub while stationary, the violent 

 ejection of the sand by the toss of the head, causing a Aortex 

 towards which the surrounding sand runs from all sides, thus 

 naturally forming the concavity. Within tliis the ci'eatui'e lies 

 concealed, and at once begins to toss the sand when the surface 

 at the margin is agitated b}^ a crawling insect. Sometimes the 

 head and jaws are exposed ; they are laid flat (as observed in 

 these cases at least), extending horizontally and not vertically 

 upward as is usually shown in figures. The habit may vary in 

 this respect. 



Dr. McCook believed that the popular impression that the grub 

 throws sand after or at an ant when it appears to be escaping 

 from the pit, is without foundation in fact. The sand is thrown 

 up, more or less violently ; so vigorously at times that it appears 

 to boil. This motion causes agitation of the superincumbent 

 sand, which begins to move toward the centre, carrying the nut 

 with it into the jaws of the grub. The sand was tossed up with 

 force enough to throw it out of the bowl to the distance of seven 

 inches on the table, even pellets as large as grains of rice being 

 thus ejected ; but it flew in all directions, on the side opposite the 

 ant, or upon the ant quite indiscriminately. 



The smallest ants introduced had great difllculty in moving 

 over the wall of the pit, as the sand crumbled and rolled away 

 from beneath even the light emmet tread. One ant whicli escaped 

 had a little ball of minute pellets attached to a hind foot, as 

 though caused to adhere l)y moisture or some viscid substance 

 within the pit. Others had minute grains adheriugto the delicate 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



hairs of the body at many points. The inquiry was suggested 

 whether there is any secretion or excretion from the grub which 

 may produce this effect and so contribute to secure the victim. 



The ants show a strange fascination for the pit, even after they 

 have escaped. A large Carpenter ant {Camponotus pennsylva- 

 nicus) was seized, escaped, rushed out of the hole, then in and 

 around it again and again, as though verily dazed. There is a 

 vast deal of the " Paul Pry " in the emmet nature, but the ants 

 were rarely observed to deliberately walk into the pit. They 

 stopped upon the edge, when they reached it in course of their 

 rambles about the bowl, threw up their antennse and waved them 

 restlessly, sometimes stretched a fore-foot over the brink, some- 

 times retreated, sometimes turned and began to circumambulate 

 the pit. The agitation upon the sand, slight as it was, generally 

 (not always) aroused the grub to action, and by the process 

 already described, the sand was withdrawn from beneath the feet 

 of the insect, who slid along with the tiny sand-avalanche into the 

 apex. There it was seized unless, as sometimes occurred, it was 

 fortunate enough to make its escape. 



The use of the long hooked mandibles of the grub appeared in 

 the act of seizure ; the ants were held off" at arm's length,'' so to 

 speak, and the grub thrashed or jerked them violently until they 

 were exhausted. Meanwhile, the efforts at defense were made 

 futile by the distance from any vital point at which the victim was 

 held. Tetramorium ccespituvi, the Pavement ant, which has a 

 sharp sting, and tried eagerly to use it, was thus prevented from 

 doing so and made quite defenseless. So also the formidable 

 pincer mandibles of the Carpenter ant, by which she excavates her 

 wooden galleries and decapitates her victims with the facility of a 

 guillotine, are rendered entirely useless. This defenselessness is 

 completed b}^ the position of the grub beneath the sand. A 

 Carpenter worker-minor seized bj^a hind leg bowed her body under 

 to snap at her captor ; but her jaws grasped onl}' the gritty pellets 

 of sand which covered the ant-lion's head and out of which the 

 long hooks alone projected. 



The point of greatest importance which Dr. McCook observed, 

 Avas the confirmation of the statements of M. Bonet, concerning 

 the behavior of the grub when its movements are obstructed by 

 pebbles too large to be tossed out by the head. This statement 

 having been seriously questioned,^ the matter was tested by first 

 dropping three pebbles, each larger and heavier than the larva 

 within the centre of the pit. The grul) having attempted to 

 remove these in the usual manner, and failed, proceeded in this 

 wise : It backed up to a pebble, and placed the posterior of the 

 abdomen against, and a little beneath it, so that the sand readily 

 dropped over the apex of the abdomen and lay between that and 



' Rennie, Insect Architecture, p. 202. " We maybe pardoned for pausing 

 before giving full credence to these details." 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



the stone. A little aclj ustraent was required to balance the pebble 

 by getting its middle part against tlie end of the body, and then 

 the animal began to back out of the pit, so pushing the pebble 

 before, or rather behind it, up the side, and to a point a short 

 way beyond the margin, where it was abandoned. A small furrow 

 — two to three inches long — was described in the sand by the 

 moving stone, which furrow was curved from the point of departure. 

 The stone was kept perfectly balanced during the entire progress, 

 which was quite rapid. Each of the three pebbles was thus 

 removed, the grub returning each time and backing it out of the 

 pit. The experiment was repeated a number of times and always 

 with the same result. Some well-rounded stones were selected in 

 order to make the difficulty of balancing greater, but this made 

 no difference in the action of the larva, a round pebble being 

 balanced and removed quite as readily as a flat one. It was a 

 curious and amusing spectacle to witness the odd little creature 

 thus backing the accurately poised impediments out of its domicile, 

 and then returning to put its house in order once more. The 

 correctness of the early observations of M. Bonet is thus fully 

 confirmed by Dr. McCook's experiments. 



October 31. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The resignation of Dr. Chas. SchaeflTer as Curator was received 

 and accepted. 



Actinosphaerium Eichhornii. — Prof. Leidy remarked that he 

 had noticed in an aquarium what appeared to be eggs, adherent 

 to the edges of the leaves of Vallisneria, from the Schuylkill River. 

 On examining the egg-like bodies with a lens, they were observed 

 to be covered with delicate rays. On transferring some of the 

 bodies to the field of the microscope, they proved to be giant 

 specimens of the larger sun-animalcule, Actinosjihaeriinn Eich- 

 hornii. They measured from three-fourths to one millimetre in 

 diameter, independent of the rays, which extended from one- 

 fourtli to half a millimetre more. One of the smaller individuals 

 contained four water-fleas, Daphnias, a third of a millimetre long, 

 and one of the larger contained six of these. The Actinosphseriuvi 

 appears to be tenacious of life ; several specimens having been 

 retained alive and in good condition for three days, in a drop of 

 water in an animalcule cage. They had discharged the Daphnias, 

 but retained their original size. One of oval form measured 1 mm. 

 long by 0.75 mm. broad. The smaller ones measured 0.75 mm. 

 in diameter. After another day they appeared in good condi- 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



tion, but the rays were contracted so as to be about half the 

 original length, and nianj' had a minute granular ball at the end, 

 apparently etfete matter thrown off from them. At this time the 

 animalcules were returned to the aquarium. 



November 7. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty' persons present. 



The following were presented for publication : — 



"A review of Swainson's Genera of Fishes,'' b^' Joseph 



Swain. 

 "Ants as Beneficial Insecticides," by the Rev. Henry C. 



McCook, D. D. 



The deaths of Benjamin V. Marsh and Isaac Comh', M. D., 

 members, were announced. 



On Topaz and Biotite. — Prof.' Leidy exhibited several interest- 

 ing minerals. One of these was a large ciystal of topaz, of dark 

 and decided amethystine hue from Brazil. The yellow topaz is 

 the common kind and this by heating assumes a pink or rose 

 color. He had never seen or read of another of the same color. 

 The crystal is about 2 J inches in length. The other mineral con- 

 sisted of plates of muscovite containing hexagonal plates of 

 biotite remarkable for their regularity and beauty. The crystals 

 of biotite ranged from a millimetre to 50 mm. in breadth. The 

 specimens are from Macon Co., N. C. Similar specimens are 

 found in West Philadelphia, but he had seen none fi'om this 

 localitv in which the crvstals of biotite were so regular. 



November 14. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 

 The death of J. Xorris Emlen, a member, was announced. 



On Aetinosphaeriiivi, etc. — Prof. Leidy stated that Actino- 

 sphserium Eichhornii, on which he had made some remarks a few 

 weeks ago, still existed in large numbers in an aquarium in his 

 possession. The animals though in active condition appeared to 

 be habitually sedentary, remaining adherent to the edges of leaves 

 of VaUisnpria and other aquatic plants, and often, as on a pedicle 




262 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



to the ends of minute filamentous alga* growing from the former. 

 The last few days he had observed a number apparently in conju- 

 gation, conspicuous for their larger size and elongated form. One 

 apparently of two individuals was biscuit-shaped. 1.375 mm. long 

 and 0.625 wide. Later, it assumed an oval shape and measured 

 1 mm. long and 0.875 wide. Another specimen, apparently of 

 three individuals in a trefoil-like group measured 1.5 mm. long 

 and 1.125 broad. Shortly after it assumed a biscuit form, with 

 one lobe larger than the other and then measured the same length, 

 with the same breadth on one side and 1 mm. on the other. Both 

 of the above were transferied to an animalcule cage, and after 

 twenty-four hours, three appeared in their place. One of these 

 of lozenge shape with rouuded angles measured 1.625 mm. long 

 by 0.875 broad; a second was irregularly half-oval and 1.125 mm. 

 long by 0.875 broad ; and the third was oval and 0.75 mm. long- 

 by 0.625 broad. In the later observation the\' had discharged all 

 conspicuous food. 



Prof. Leidy further stated that on tubes of Plumatella diffusa, 

 attached to a stone collected in the same locality as the above, he 

 had noticed manj^ specimens of the following forms of infusoria 

 and rotifers. 



Vaginicola crystaUina. — Tube 0.1 mm. long, 0.028 broad; often 

 containing two individuals. 



Vaginicola tincta. — Tube 0.1 mm. long; at mouth 0.048 wide; 

 just below 0.04 wide. 



Limnias annalatus. — Tube 0.6 to 0.625 mm. long; 0.05 to 

 0.0625 wide ; rotar}^ disks together 0.2 wide. 



On Tubularia, elc.jfrom Atlantic City. — Prof Leidy exhibited 

 specimens of the hydroid Tuhularia crocea ( Parypha crocea Ag.), 

 which he had observed in great profusion attached to the bottom 

 of a wreck at Atlantic City, N. J. With it he had noticed a 

 multitude of the little sea-slug Eolispilata Gould, and the skeleton- 

 shrimp, Caprella geometrica Say. He further exhibited specimens 

 of Alcyonidiuni ramosum Verrill, presented by Mr. Edward Potts, 

 and obtained by him from stones at the inlet of Atlantic City. 



The following were ordered to be published : — 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



ANTS AS BENEFICAL INSECTICIDES. 

 By Rev. Dr. H. C. McCook. 



Through the courtes}- of Rev. H. Corbett, a missionaiy of the 

 American Presbyterian Board, at Cheefoo, China, I received a 

 copy of the " North-Chin;i Herald," of April 4, 1882, containing 

 an article by Dr. Magowau, of Wenchow, on the " Utilization of 

 Ants as Grub-Destroyers in China.'" From this paper I quote 

 the following sentences : 



"Accounts of the depredations of the coccids on the orange- 

 trees of Florida, induce me to publish a brief account of the 

 employment b_v the Chinese of ants as insecticides. In many 

 parts of the province of Canton, where, says a Chinese writer, 

 cereals cannot be profltably cultivated, the land is devoted to the 

 cultivation of orange-trees, which, being subject to devastation 

 from worms, require to be protected in a peculiar manner, that is, 

 by importing ants from neighboring hills for the destruction of 

 the dreaded parasite. The orangeries themselves supply ants 

 which prey upon the enem}' of the orange, but not in sufheient 

 numbers ; and resort is had to hill-people, who, throughout the 

 summer and winter find the nests suspended from branches of 

 bamboo and various trees. There are two varieties of ants, red 

 and yellow, Avhose nests resemble cotton-bags. The ' orange-ant 

 feeders' are provided with pig or goat bladders, which are baited 

 inside with lard. The orifices of these they applj- to the entrance 

 of nests, when the ants enter the bags and become a marketable 

 commodity at the orangeries. Orange-trees are colonized by 

 depositing the ants on their upper branches, and to enable them 

 to pass from tree to tree, all the trees of an orchaixl are connected 

 by bamboo rods. 



'' Is the orange the only plant thus susceptible of protection 

 from parasitic pests? Are these the onl^' species of ants that ai"e 

 capable of utilization as insecticides? Indubitabl}' not; and 

 certainly entomologists and agriculturalists would do well to 

 institute experiments with a view to further discovery in this line 

 of research." 



I propose to consider whether the suggestion here raised is 

 entitled to serious attention by economic entomologists in the 

 United States, as likely to lead to valuable practical results. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



I. Ill the first place it might be asked, Are the domicile habits 

 of ants favorable? Ants possessing the habit of the China 

 emmets referred to by Dr. Magowan are comparatively rare, 

 certainly not many are known to science. Mr. F. Smith, in his 

 Catalogue of Hymenopterous Insects in the British Museum,' 

 gives figures of several fibrous nests made by arboreal species of 

 ants, Cremator/aster (^Pachi/condijla) montezumia, from Mexico, 

 Pohjrhachis textor, from Malacca, Formica gibbosa, India, and 

 Grematogaster arboreus^ from Port Natal. One of these, it will 

 be observed, is a North American species, the onh' one indeed of 

 which I have any knowledge. An Australian species, Gremato- 

 gaster laeviceps,' builds a pensile nest somewhat in the fashion 

 of our hornet, upon trees. It contains a labj'rinth of curved 

 galleries and cells centering upon the interior. Formica bisjnnosa, 

 of Cayenne, forms a nest of cottony matter from the capsules of 

 Bombax.3 In Brazil, this species, the Pohjrhachis bispinosus, is 

 popularly known as the " Negro-head Ant," the globular nest, 

 covered on the exterior with little projections, being suggestive of 

 close wooly hair. Smith says that the material of which it forms its 

 nest, furnishes an article of commerce used as tinder, for lighting 

 cigars, etc.^ Myrviica lirhii, an India species described by Lieut. 

 Col, W. H. Sykes,-^ which is apparent!}' a species of Grematogaster, 

 makes a formicary- in the branches of trees out of the droppings 

 of cows. These it spreads in thin, flaky, overlapping folia, like 

 shingles or tiles. A dome-like roof covers the summit in an 

 unbroken sheet, like a skull-cap on a man's head. The interior 

 consists of a multitude of irregular cells, formed of the same 

 material as the exterior. The "Green Ant," Qhcophglla virescens^ 

 builds an arboreal nest of dead leaves, from which it often drops 

 down in bevies upon travelers, very much to their discomfort. 

 The nest is about eight inches in diameter, and is made of a leaf- 

 pulp — as the hornet's nest is of a pulp of wood-fibre— and is hung 

 among the thickest foliage, being sustained not only bj^ the 

 branches, but by the leaves which are wrought into the nest, and 

 in parts project from the outer wall. Mr. Foxcroft discovered an 



1 Part vi, Formicidse, Plates I, II, XIV. 



-Smith, Catal. Brit. Mus., vol. 15^ Formicidae, p. 138. 



' Lubbock, 1883, "Ants, Bees and Wasps," p. 24. 



* Trans. Entomol. Soc, Lond., Ser. iii, vol. i, p. 32, 1802. 



■■'Trans. Entomol. Soc, Lond., ;VZ. ,p. 101. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



African species of (Ecophylla, which, when disturbed, swarmed 

 in excited legions upon the outside of their papery domicile, 

 against which the}- pattered so vigorously, as they moved, that 

 the observer thought the rain was falling upon the leaves above.^ 



These are all exotic species, and I know of no American (U. S.) 

 arboreal ants except those, like the various species of Camponotus, 

 for example — the Carpenter ant — that live within the excavated 

 wood. An}' protection to the fruit wrought by these would be 

 neutralized b}' the injur}^ done the tree itself. Certain species of 

 ants have also been reported as dwelling in the hollow interior of 

 the spines that grow upon some of our thorn 3^ trees, like those 

 referred to by M. Ernest Andre in his admirable work now going 

 through press. - 



Mr. W. H. Pattou has described an indigenous species, Sfenamma 

 gallarum, as inhabiting a gall upon a dead but unbroken stock of 

 golden rod.^ 



Ants are indeed often seen in great numbers upon trees, and 

 moving in columns up and down the trunk and along the branches ; 

 but such are engaged in seeking food from aphides, coccids, galls, 

 etc., and usually have their domiciles elsewhere, for the most part 

 underground. 



Mr. Smith describes a species {Pseudomyrma modesta), 

 collected in Panama, which nests in the spines of a species of 

 Acacia. The spines are three inches long, and the entrance to 

 the formicary is a small hole gnawed near the point. There are 

 no cells within, and this is probably (as the similar cases alluded 

 to may be), simply- an example of ''squatter sovereignty."^ 



We do have indigenous ants with the habit of constructing nests 

 of leaf-pulp, in the manner of the China species, as for example 

 Atta fervens Sa}^, and Alfa septentrionaJis McCook, heretofore 

 described in these Proceedings. Atta fervens,^ the Leaf-cutting 

 or Parasol ant strips the leaves of various trees, reduces them to 

 pulp, and forms nests rudeh- resembling those of the hornet. 

 These nests, however, are underground, and not upon trees. As 

 I liave seen them in Texas hanging to the roots of an immense 



1 Wood, "Homes without Hands," p. 270-3. 



■^ "Species des Formicides d'Europe," p. 52. 



^ Amer. Naturalist, Feb., 1879, p. 126. 



* Trans. Ento. Soc. London, vol. i, ser. 3, p. 33. 



'=> Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1879, p. 33. 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



live oak-tree, or built up from the floor, or attached to the roof of 

 their large subterranean caves, the\- quite resembled the pensile 

 nests of the tree-ants as described by various writers. Atta 

 septentrionalis ' is a New Jersey- species, and builds out of the 

 leaves of pine nests which are little models — almost to3'-like in 

 their minute mimicry — of the Texas species. These, too, are 

 underground, and although they have the requisite ability as to 

 nest-making, the problem of domesticating them in the tree-tops 

 could hardl}' be solved, even by an economic entomologist. It 

 may be concluded, therefore, that if a domicile in the trees, as 

 with the China species, be a necessarj^ condition, we have no 

 indigenous species upon which to experiment, either to utilize or 

 develop a habit that will make ants so highl}' beneficial as 

 insecticides as to justify any dependence upon them as protectors 

 of fruits. 



II. In the second place we may ask : 7s the food-habit of ants 

 favorable^ Undoubtedl}' ants are insectivorous, or carnivorous, 

 rather. Their food-supply is largely drawn from insects jdelding 

 sweet excretions or secretions ; from the nectar and sugar}- 

 exudations of plants, from fruits, from the oils of nuts, seeds, etc. 

 Tliey are also largely scavengers. Dead insects and animals of 

 all kinds, refuse of many sorts afl^brd them nutrition, but the}' do 

 not limit their insectivorous tastes to mere scavenger work : 

 they also prey upon living insects. This is true of our indigenous 

 ant-fauna, although we have no such wholesale insecticides as the 

 famous Eciton or Driver ant of Africa and South America, whose 

 raiding columns clear out ever}^ living insect within their broad 

 sweep. ^ I have seen the Mound-making ants of the Alleghenies 

 (Formica exsecto'ides) preying upon our native Termite or White 

 ant, Termes fiavipes^^ when the nests of this insect had been 

 uncovered by turning up stones upon the mountains in search of 

 specimens. It was surprising to note how quickly the Formicas 

 appeared on the scene, seeming to dart out from behind every 

 blade of grass, stick and stone, and leaping into the galleries that 

 threaded the flat pit of the stone, seized with avidity the soft 

 white Termes and made off with their prey. These ants and many 



' Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada, 1880, p. 359. 



'^ See a full account in Belt's "Naturalist in Nicaragua," p. 17, seq., and 

 " Naturalist on the Amazons," vol. ii, p. 350. 

 • Proceed, Acad. Nat. Sci. Philada., 1879, p. 154. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 26t 



others have been seen capturing flies,' even on the wing, and fre- 

 quently bringing home to their nests various insects, still living 

 or recently killed. 



So also the Agricultural ants of Texas,- have been seen after 

 a shower to break suddenly out of their formicary, scatter 

 throughout the foliage and return with immense numbers of 

 living insects beaten down by the hard rain. 



Forel ^ says that throughout the bounds of an ant-city of Fo7'mica 

 exsecta, in Switzerland, covering man}- acres, he was not able to 

 discover any other species of ant except a few nests of Tetra- 

 morium coegpitum, wlio owed tlieir exemption to their superior 

 agility. This is true in some measure of the allied F. exsectdides, 

 in our mountains and the New Jersey barrens. In addition, it 

 may be stated that ants are veritable cannibals, destroying and 

 feeding upon not only individuals of their own familj', but those 

 of their own species. In the same connection maj' be mentioned 

 a custom of American Indians to put furs and blankets infested 

 by insects near the mounds of the Occident ant, in order to have 

 them cleaned out by the insectivorous emmets.^ So far, there- 

 fore, as the mere food habit is concerned, it is favorable to the 

 idea of utilizing certain species of ants as insecticides. 



III. A third question may be raised, viz.: Do our' ants exhibit 

 in nature any special insectivorous habits that would make them 

 natural protectors of crops '? This question has been considered 

 at some length by the Agricultural Department of the United 

 States Government in the matter of the cotton ciops. In a report 

 on Ants, prepared at the request of that department,'^ the writer 

 reviewed the testimony gathered from many and widely separated 

 sections as to the friendly offices of ants in destroying the eggs 

 and larva of the cotton-worm. My opinion then was that, on the 

 whole, tliose offices would hardly have an important commercial 

 value, although to a certain extent beneficial. Many of the 

 practical observers from whom information was collected, spoke 

 highly of the services of the ants, especially of one, " the Cotton 



' Mound making Ants of the Alleghenies, p. 259, 

 ^ Agricultural Ants of Texas, p. 108. 

 •' Les Fourmes de la Suisse, p. 207. 



^ Honey Ants of the Garden of the gods, and Occident Ants of the 

 American Plains, p. 151. 

 •'" Comstock's Report upon Cotton Insects, 1879, p. 181, seq. 

 18 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Aut," Solenopsis xyloni McCook. These ants were particularly 

 effective against the eggs, but attacked the larva also. So good 

 an observer as Mr. Trelease ventures the opinion that ants are 

 probaljly among the most important enemies of the cotton- 

 caterpillar. One observer went so far as to think that the ants 

 would ultimately destroy the cotton-worm, should it prove to be 

 indigenous rather than of foreign origin. 



All the ants considered in the above-named report are mining 

 ants, and would therefore not be available for such uses as the 

 species of the Chinese orangeries. There appears to be no good 

 reason, however, why they might not be useful on the orange-trees 

 of Florida, to which State some of them are native. But it would 

 be a necessary condition, I think, that the ants should exist in 

 such vast numbers as to compel, under the stimulus of hunger, a 

 thorough canvassing of every neighboring object that might shelter 

 available prey. Tiie value of the Chinese Orange ants appears to 

 turn upon such conditions, viz. : their limitation to tree surfaces 

 as a foraging field, and their vast numbers. In short, a limited 

 supply of food and an immense demand for it, constrain the ants 

 to the most diligent garnering and careful gleaning. On the whole 

 there is little hope that these conditions can be met by artificial 

 domestication of American ant fauna. 



IV. Would it he practicable to domesticate the Chinese species 

 in America ? In answering this question I can venture no opinion 

 as to whether it would repay orange-growers, but as a matter of 

 experiment, merely, I think it might be practicable. Certainly 

 some of our species are widely distributed, and probably imported. 

 That universal pest of the housekeeper, the little red ant, Mono- 

 morium pharaonis^ is probably a foreigner ; at all events is a 

 cosmopolite, being found in houses all over the world. Mr. 

 Frederick Smith had reason to believe that it is a native of Brazil, 

 whence it has been distributed in merchandise.^ Formica ru/a, 

 of the Rocky Mountains, and F. exsectdides^ of the Alleghenies, 

 differ little from the European F. rufa and F. exsecta. F. 

 sanguinea, the Red Slavemaker, is common to both continents, 

 and our Shining Slavemaker, Polyergus lucidus, differs very little 

 from the European P. rufescens. The Pavement ant, Tetra- 

 morium coespitum^ inhabits both hemispheres. Pheidole merja- 

 cephala, which I have found in the neighborhood of Philadelphia, 



' Trans. Ento. Soc, London, vol. 1, 1862, p. 33. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 269 



is distributed throughout the tropical and sub-tropical regions of 

 the entire world. ^ 



In view of these facts, there is a probabilitj", at least, that the 

 tree-ants of China might be introduced and domesticated. 

 Whether such " Chinese migration " would be encouraged bj^ an 

 American Congress might have to be considered ! And perhaps 

 it would require the patience and skill of the Chinese men to 

 successfull}' domesticate Chinese ants — could that be done at all. 



In the same connection it may be said that some of our indige- 

 nous species have a remarkable elasticitj' of organism 1)}^ which 

 the}- are adapted to the widel}' varying climatic and geographical 

 conditions of our country. For example, both the Red and Shining 

 Slavemakers which inhabit the Atlantic coast, I have found in 

 the Garden of the gods, Colorado.- Several species of the Car- 

 penter ants are distributed throughout our forests from Maine to 

 California, notably Camponotus pennsylv aniens^ which I have 

 found not only in our Eastern mountains, but in sub-tropical 

 Texas. Prof. Aug. ForeP has examined specimens from New 

 Orleans, and California, as well as from China, Japan and Siberia. 

 Throughout all these regions it has precisel}' the same habits as 

 described by the writer.^ Formica fusca^ which so often appears 

 as a domestic ally or " slave " of the kidnapping species, is widely 

 distributed over our continent, and is substantially identical with 

 the species of the same name found nearly everywhere in 

 Europe. 



On the other hand, some ants have well-marked geographical 

 limits which have not yet been overcome by natural movements. 

 The Occident ant ( Pogonomyrmex occidentalis), I have traced^ 

 approximateh' within a range of 13° latitude, saj' from 45° N. to 

 32° IS".; and of 21° longitude, that is, from Brookville, Kansas, to 

 Reno, at the base of the Sierra Nevada, 1G22 miles west of the 



^Catalogue des Fonnicides d' Europe, by Forel & Emory. Mitthei- 

 lungen der Schweiz. Entom. Gesellsch., Bd. 5, Heft 8. Schaffhausen, 

 Alexander Gelser, 1879. 



^McCook, "The Shining Slavemakers," Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1880, p. 376, seq. 



» Forel, "Etudes Myrmecologiques En.," 1879. Bull. Soc. Vaud. Sc. 

 Nat. xvi, 81, p. 858. 



* Trans. American Entom. Soc, vol. v, 1874-76, p. 277, seq. 

 'McCook, "Honey and Occident Ants," p. 125. 




2T0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Mississippi River. There appears to be no satisfactory reason 

 (from a human standpoint) why these insects should not have 

 pushed eastward much further; but some cause (quite satisfactory 

 from an emmet standpoint) seems to have marked their bounds 

 in the very midst of the great plains. So also the Cutting ants 

 are— fortunately for the agriculturists — even more sharply limited 

 to the southwest ; and within the same geographical province, but 

 with a little more elastic margin, to which the Honey ants 

 {Mijrmecocystus melliger) are confined. Not to multiply examples 

 it thus appears that the question of importing and domesticating 

 beneficial emmet insecticides is conditioned and may be prevented 

 by the creatures' peculiar organism. The Chinese tree-ants are 

 apparently natives of the South, the province of Canton, and it 

 does not appear from Dr. Magowan's paper whether they have been 

 also utilized in the northern provinces. Their domestication in 

 our Southern States would, therefore, be favored by similar 

 climatic conditions. Independent of such considerations, there 

 are always natural checks and helps to the increase of insects, 

 often of a nature so extremely complicated with other species of 

 animal-life and the plant-world, either hostile or friendly, that 

 experiment alone can positively determine such a result. 



In answer to the question, " Could ants be transported so far 

 with a view to trying the experiment?" I would say that I think 

 the matter practicable. I brought several artificial colonies of 

 Honey ants from Colorado to Philadelphia, carrying them in glass 

 jars, feeding tliem a little water and sugar. These were kept 

 during the fall and winter, but as the purpose was only to observe 

 their habits, no effort w^as made to domesticate them. Large 

 numbers of workers of the Agricultural ants were sent to me from 

 Texas through the mails, arriving in good condition, and living 

 throughout the winter. They were not permitted to live longer, 

 as I did not consider myself at liberty to introduce, for other than 

 mere experimental purposes, any insect that might possibly become 

 injurious. Similar attempts to obtain colonies of the Cutting 

 ants, all failed, these insects evidently not having the same vital 

 power, at least for such conditions as a tin box and a mail-bag, as 

 the agriculturals. 



Shipments of ants from China I believe could be made, by 

 placing workers, larvae, eggs, and, if possible, a queen, in roomy 

 boxes containing portions of their nests, perhaps also a little soil, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



and covered with close wire-cloth. They should be fed, not too 

 freely, with animal fats and sugar, and given water in a sponge, 

 soaked cork, or cloth. With care there seems to l)e no reason 

 why such artificial formicaries should not l)e safely transported 

 from China. 



In conclusion I wish to say that whatever benefits the ant may 

 be led by domestication to confer upon man, she already is en- 

 titled to consideration as a valuable, if not valued, friend of the 

 race. I have elsewhere shown ^ that ants fill an important place in 

 the economy of Nature by contributing to the fertilization of the 

 earth. In the paper referred to it appears from measurements of 

 the amount of soil actually excavated, that insignificant in size as 

 these insects are, the labors of countless hosts through manj'^ 

 3'ears are b}^ no means insignificant in the shifting of the soil. 

 They pulverize the ground and bring it in great quantities to the 

 surface, thus making good topsoil for the growth of vegetation. 

 In addition to this it is shown that the ants bring about the 

 aeration of the soil, so needful for its productiveness. Moreover, 

 the sj^stem of "pores'' established by the galleries which every- 

 where perforate the gTOund, affords, on the one hand, free entrance 

 for the rains into the earth, and on the other hand a series of tubes 

 through which, by capillary attraction, the moisture may ascend 

 to the roots of the plants. The last work of Dr. Charles Darwin ^ 

 is devoted largely to similar habits on the part of the earth-worm ; 

 and in view of the interest which that subject has elicited, I ven- 

 ture to again call attention to the distinguished service wrought 

 for the benefit of agriculture by the industrious ant. Even if 

 that insect should not be as tractable for domestication as her 

 Hymenopterous ally, the bee, and in spite of her occasional forays 

 upon our cupboards and crops, the ant is worthy to stand at the 

 head of insects beneficial to man. 



N. B. — Since the above was in press I have observed that Dr. Forel, in 

 his "Etudes Myrmecologiques" for 1879, speaks of a Mexican species of 

 Camponotus {C. senex), in the collection of Saussure, as bearing a label 

 inscribed "Nids de papier dans les branches" — Nests of paper in the 

 branches. This and Pachycondyla montezumia make two known North 

 American species of Tree-ants. 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1879, p. 158, seq. 



^ The Formation of Vegetable Mould through the Action of Earth- 

 worms, 1882. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



A KEVIEW OF SWAINSON'S GENERA OF FISHES. 

 BY JOSEPH SWAIN. 



In the 3-ear 1839, William Swaiuson published a general scheme 

 of the classification of Reptiles, Amphibians and Fishes,^ in 

 which all the accepted genera of these groups are defined and a 

 list of typical, or illustrative species is appended. Manj'^ new 

 generic names are here introduced, the consideration of which 

 forms the object of the present paper. I give a list of the new 

 generic names proposed for Fishes by Swainson, with their 

 equivalence in modern nomenclature, as I imderstand them. 

 The list of species referred by Swainson to each genus is here 

 repeated verbatim, the species considered by me as the type of 

 each group being indicated by an asterisk (*). The whole work 

 is singularly worthless as a contribution to science, and of interest 

 only from the fact that the law of priorit}' requires the adoption 

 of many of these names. 



It ma}^ be observed that Swainson possessed a very limited 

 knowledge of Fishes. His definitions are seldom apt and verj' 

 often incorrect, and but a small proportion of his genera can be 

 received into the S3-stem. Of these few, scarcely any retain their 

 original definition. 



All difficult questions, involved in this paper, have been referred 

 to Prof. D. S. Jordan, and to whom I am also indebted for other 

 valuable suggestions, and for the use of his library-. I am like- 

 wise indebted to Prof. C. H. Gilbert for kindly aid. 



Cromileptes,^ p. 201 = Epinephelus Bloch (about 1790). 



C. altivelis Sw. Cuv., pi. oo. myriaster Riip. (necCuv.), i. pi. 27, f.l. 



gigas,* lb., pi. 33. 

 C. miniatus, Riip. i, pi. 26, f. 3. fuscoguttatus, lb. f. 8, 



hemistictos, lb. f. 3. 



' The Natural History of Fishes, Amphibians & Reptiles, or Monocardian 

 animals. By William Swainson, F. R. & F. L. S. * * * In two 

 volumes. Vol. II. London. Printed for Longman, Oi-me, Brown, Green 

 & Longmans, Paternoster Row, and John Taylor, Upper Gower Street, 

 1839. 



- The name Cromileptes has been lately revived by Dr. Bleeker (Sys. 

 Perca. Revis. Pars 1 a, 11, 1875), in place of his own Serrnnichthys, the type 

 of which is altivelis. As, however, this species does not agree with the 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 213 



Cynichthys, ]). 20] -= Plectorhynchus' LacepeJe (1800.) 



C. tlavo-purpuratus.* Frey, Atl. pi. 57, f. 2. Bennet, Ceyl. Fishes, pi. 

 19 (fig. 43 c). 



Variola, p. 202 = Variola Sw. (1839). 



V. longipinua* Sw. Riip. i, j)!. 26, f. 2 (S. louti Riip.). 



Elastoma, p. 202 == Etelis, C. .t V. (1828). 

 E. oculatus* Sw. Cuv., pi. 32. 



UriphsBton,'^ p. 202 = Variola Sw. (1839). 

 U. microleptes* Sw. (Serranus phaeton, Cuv. pi. 34). 



Rabdophorus, p. 211 = Chaetodon L (1758), subg. Rabiophoras Sw. 



Ephippium* Sw. Cuv. pi. 174. 

 Ganicanthus, p. 212 ^ Holacanthus Lac. (1803). 



Lamarckii,*Cuv. pi. 184. tricolor, Bloch, pi. 426. 



Microcanthus, p. 215 = Chaetodon, L. (1758). 

 G. strigatus,* Cuv. pi. 170. 



Microgaster, p. 216 == Etroplus C. A V. 1830 . 

 maculata,* Cuv. pi. 136. 



Chrysiptera, p. 216 =^ Glyphidodon, Lacepede (1802). 



azurea,* Frey, Atl. pi. 64, fig. 3. Gamardii, lb., fig. 4. 



Chaetolabru?, p. 216 = Etroplus, C. A V. (1830). 



Suratensis,* Bloch., 217. maculatus, lb., 427. 



Chrysoblephus, ]>. 221 = Sparus, L. (1758.) 

 C. gibbiceps,* Cuv. pi. 147. 



Argyrops, p. 221 = Sparus. L. (1158). 

 Spinifer,* Forsk. Russ. pi. 101. 



Calamus, p. 221 = Calamus Sw. (1839). 

 E. megacephalus, * Sw. Cuv., pi. 152. 



Lithogoathus, p. 222 = Lithognathus Sw. (1839). 

 L. capeusis,* Sw. Cuv., pi. 151. 



Nemipterus, p. 223 = DentexCuv. (1817). 

 N. fllamentosus,* Cuv., pi. 1.55. 



diagnosis (not having a strong canine tooth on each side of lower jaw), 

 and the other five species, which do so agree, belong to the prior genera 

 Epinephelus and Bodianus, we .should consider Cromileptes a synonym of 

 Epinephelus. 



' Biagramma Cuv., 1817. 



^ PliMhoniclithys Bleeker. As has been shown by Dr. Vaillant, the 

 Serranus phcBton Cuv. and Val. was a made-ni) specimen, with the tail of 

 a Fistularia skilfully fastened to the body of a Serranoid (probably a 

 species of Variola). 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Thalassoma, p. 224 = Thalassoma Sw. (= Julis Auct. nee typus). 

 T. purpurea,* Nob. Riipp., Atl, pi. 6, fig. 1. 



XJrichtliys, p. 224 = CMlinus Lac, (1802). 

 U. lunulatus,* Nob. Riipp., Atl. pi. 6, fig. 1. 

 quinque-ciiictus, lb., ii, pi. 5, fig. 1. 



Crassilabrus, p. 225 = CMlinus Lac, (1802). 



C. undulatus,* Riipp., Atl. pi. 6, fig. 2. 

 Leptoscarus, p. 226 = Calliodon Gronov. (1801). 



L. vargiensis,* Quoy and Gaim, p. 388. 

 Hemistoma, p. 226 ^= Scarus Forskicl,i 1775. 



H. reticulata, Sw. (Scarus pepo* Benn. Ceylon, pi. 28). 



Petronason, p. 226 = Scarus. 



P. psittacus'*, Riipp. pi. 20, 1. flammiceps Bennett, Ceylon, 

 Riippellii, lb., pi. 21, 1. Fish, pi. 24. 



bicoloi-, lb., pi. 21, 3. niger Riipp. Atl. ii, pi. 8, 1. 



longicauda, lb., pi. 21, 2. collaua, lb., fig. 2. 



viridis, Bl., pi. 222. pulchellus, lb., fig. 3. 



Erychlhys, p. 226 = Calliodon Bloch and Schneider (1801). 



E. croicensis,* BL, pi. 221. viridescens, Riipp., ii, 7, 



quinque-fasciatus, Benn. fig. 2. 



Ceylon, pi. 23, (fig. 60). cseruleo-punctatus, lb., 3. 



Chlorurus, p. 227 = Scarus F(.rsk;el (1775). 

 C. gibbus, Riipp., Atl. pi. 20, fig. 2. 



Sparisoma, p. 227 = Scarus Forsk;ol, subg. Sparisoma'^ Swainson. 

 S. Abildgardii,* Bloch, pi. 259. 



AmpMscarus, p. 227 = ? Teuthis L. (1766). 



A. fuscus,* Griff., Cuv., pi. 35. 

 Hemiulis, p. 228 = CMlio Lac. (1802). 

 H. vittatus, Griff., Cuv., pi. 6, 1. auratus,* Frey, Atl. pi. 54, 2. 

 guttatus, Bloch, pi. 357, 1. melapterus, Bloch, pi. 296, 2. 



Cynffidus.^* p. 229 = Cynaedus Sw. (18:i9). 



C. Tinea,* Yarr., i, 293. rupestris, Bloch, pi. 250, fig. 1. 



cornubicus, lb., 29G. virens? lb., 251, fig. 2. 



gibbus, lb., 298. notatus, lb., 251, fig. 2. 



luscus, II)., 300. 



' = Pseudoscariis Bleeker, 1861. 



2 = Scarus Bleeker. 



^ r= Crenilabrus (not of Cuvier). Swainson observes ; " M. Cuvier having 

 expressly stated that the type of his genus Crenilabrus is the Ltitiamis 

 verves of Bloch, I have so retained it, placing all the others, * * under 

 the subgenus Cyiuedus.'''' If this statement (which I am unable to verify) 

 is correct, Cynrcdus Sw. must supersede Crenilabrus, wliich becomes a 

 synonym of Uarpe, Lac. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2T5 



Astronotus,' p. 229 = Astronotus Sw. (18:^9). 

 A, ocellatus,* Spix, pi. 68. 



Thalliurus,' p. 230 = Thalliurus Sw. (18.^9). 

 C. Blochii,* Bloch, pi. 2(50 (pi.? 290). 



Labristoma, ' p. 2;iO := Pseudochromis Riipp. (1835). 



L. olivacea,* Riipp., ii, pi. 2, fig. 3. flavivertex, ii, pi. 2, fig. 4. 



Cichlasoma/ p. 2M0 = CicMasoma Sw. (18;i9). 

 Labnis punctata,* Bloch, pi. 295, fig. 1. 



Eupemis, p. 232 = Chilio Lac. (1802). 



E. fusiformis,* Sw., Riipp., Atl. ii, pi. 1, fig. 4. 



Chloricthys.s p. 2;!2 ^ Thalassoma Sw. (1S.!9). 



bifasciatus,* Bl., pi. 283. Grayii, Sw., Ind. Zool., ii, pi. 92, I. 



oi'natus, lb., pi. 280. Hardwickii, Bean., pi. 12. 



Braziliensis, lb., pi. 280. quadricolor, Less., Atl. pi. 32, 1. 



lunaris, lb., pi. 281. semicseruleus, Riipp., Atl. ii, pi. 3, fig. 1. 



caeruleoceiihalus, Frey,, Atl. aygula, Riipp., Atl. i, pi. 0, 2. 

 pi. 56, fig. 2. 



Icthycallus,* p. 232 = Coris Lac. (1800). 



dimidiatus, Spix, pi. 53. umbrostygma, Riijip., Atl. ii, pi. 3, 

 chloropterus, Bl., pi. 288. fig. 2. 



trimaculatus. Griff"., pi. 45, fig. 2. semipuuctatus, * lb., pi. 3, fig. 3. 



decussatus, Beun., pi. 14. cyanocephalus, lb., pi. 286. 



auromaculatus, lb., 20. .iulis, lb., pi. 287, fig. 1. 



semidecorata. Less., Atl. pi. 35, bivittatus, lb., pi. 284, fig. 1. 



fig. 2. macrolepidatus, lb., fig. 2. 



geoff'royii, Frey., Atl. pi. 56, fig. 3. ornatus, Linn., Tr. xii, pi. 27. 



Zyphothyca, p. 239 = Gempylus Cuv. (1829). 

 Z. coluber * Sw. Cuv. and Val., pi. 221. 



Zanclurus, p. 239 = Histiophorus Lac. (1802). 



Z. indicus* Nob. Cuv. and Val., pi. 229. Bloch, 343. 



Polycanthus, p. 242 = Spinachia Fleming (1828). 



P. spinachia* Sw. Yarrell, i, 87. Bloch, pi. 53, fig. 1. 



' = Hygrogonus, Giinther, 1862. 



''■ = Hemigymnus, Giinther, 1862. 



•^ "The name of Pseudo-chvovin?, is so objectionable, that I hope the 

 learned naturalist who proposed it, will excu.se me for offering another." 

 {Swainson.) 



* = Acara, Heck, 1840 (in part). 



'" Chlorichthys and Icthycallus, confused jumbles of species, may well be 

 disposed of as synonyms of Thalassoma and Coris, respectively, although 

 several other genera are represented in each. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Leiurus, p. 242 = Gasterosteus L. (1758). 

 aculeatus.* Yarr. i, 81. brachycentxus. Yarr. i, 82. 



spinulosus. lb. i, 83. pungitius. lb. i, 85. 



Chirostoma, p. 243 = Menidia Bonaparte (18:56), subg. Chirostoma^ Sw. (1839). 

 A. Humboldtiana.* Cuv. and Val., pi. 306,* (fig. 67). 



Meladerma, p. 24:; = Elacate Cuv. (1829). 



M. nigerrima.* Russ., i)l. 153. (Pedda. mottah.). 



Platylepes, p. 247 = Lactarius Cuv. (1833). 

 P. lactaria.* Cuv., pi. 261. 



Argylepes, p. 247 = ? 

 A. Indica. Russ., pi. 156. (Mitta Parah.). 



Trachinusr p. 24 7 = Trachurus Raf. (1810). 

 Alepes, p. 248 = ? 



A. melanoptera* Sw. Russel, pi. 155. (Evori Parah.). 



Zoniclitliys, p. 248 = Seriola Ouv. (1829), subg. Zonichthys Sw. (1839). 

 Z. fasciatus.* Bloch, pi. 341. 

 subcarinata. Russ., pi. 149. 



Hamiltonia, p. 250 = Hamiltonia Sw., 1839 (:= Bogoda Bleek.). 

 H. ovata.* Sw. Ham., fig. 37. 

 lata. Sw. lb., fig. 37. 



Platysomus, p. 250 = Caranx Lac. (1802), subg. Vomer Cuv. (1817). 

 Brownii.* Cuv., pi. 256, 

 Micropteiyx Sw. App. 

 Spixii Sio. Spix., pi, 57. 



Ctenodon, p. 255 = Acantlnrus Forsk. (1775). 

 C. Riippelii* Sw. Riipp. 16 (fig. 74). 

 rubropuuctatus. Riipp, 15, 1. 

 lineatus Sw. Benn., pi, 2, 

 Cuvierii. C. V,, pi, 289. 

 erythromelas. Less. Atl. 27, 1. 

 fuliginosus. Lesson 27, 2. 



Zebrasoma, p. 256 ^^ Acanthurus Forsk. (1775). 

 velifer* Sw. Riipp. Atlas, pi. 15, tig, 2, Bl., pi, 427. 



Callicanthus, p. 256 = Monoceros Bl. Sc Schn. (1801). 



C, elegans.* (Aspisurus elegans. ) Riipp, Atl. 16, fig. 3 (fig, 75). 



Xiphichthys, p. 259 = Trichiurus T-. (1766), 



Z, Russelii* Sw. Russ, i, p. 40 (p, ? 41), 

 Xiphasia,' p. 259 = Xiphasia ;^w. 



Z, setifer* Sw. Russ,, pi. 39. 



' = Ileterognathiis, Girard, 1854, 



2 Evidently a misprint for Trachurus. 



•■' = Nemophis, Kaup., 1858 ; = Xiphogadus, Giinther, 1862, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 T 



Ornichthys, p. 2()2 = Prionotus Lac. (1S02), subg. Ormchthys Sw. (1839). 

 Carolinensis (Caroliuus). Bl. 352. 

 punctatus* lb., pi. 353. 



Macrochyrus, p. 264 = Pterois Cuv. (1817). 

 miles.* Benn. Ceyl., pi. 9. 



Pteroleptus, p. 264 = Pterois Cuv. (1817). 

 P. longi Cauda.* Russ. ii, pi. 133. 



Pteropterus, p. 264 = Pterois Cuv. (1817). 

 T. radiatus.* Cuv. and Val. 



Brachyrus, p. 264 = Pterois Cuv. (1817). 

 zebra,* Cuv. iv, p. 367. 

 brachypterus, lb. iv, p. 368. 



Pterichthys, p. 265 = Apistus Cuv. (1829). 

 P. carinatus.* Cuv. iv., p. 395. Israelitorum Cuv., iv, p. 396. 

 alatus. Russ. No. 160, B. 



Platypterus.i p. 265 = Tetraroge Glinther. (1860). 

 taeuianotus.* Cuv. Lac. iv., pi. 3, fig. 2. loiigispinis. lb. iv, 408» 



Bourgomvillii. lb. iv, 411. fusco-virens. lb. iv, 409. 



Trichosomus,^ p. 265, = Prosopodasys Cant. (1850). 

 trachiuoides.* Cuv. pi. 92, 1. 

 dracsena. Cuv. iv. p. 403. 



Gymnapistes,^ p. 265 = Gymnapistes Sw. (1839). 

 marmoratus, * Griff. Cuv., pi. 32, fig. 3. 

 australis, White's Voy., pi. 52, fig. 1. 

 Belangerii Cuv., iv., p. 412. 

 barbatus, lb, 413. 

 niger, lb, 415. 



Bufichthys,* p. 26S = Synancia 151. & Schn. (1801). 

 horrida.* Lac. ii, pi. 17 2. 

 grossa. Gray. In. Zool., i, pi. 97. 



Trachicephalus,* p. 268 = Polycaulus Giinthcr. (1860). 

 elongatus* Griff. Cuv., pi. 8, f. 3. 



' Preoccupied by several genera. 



^Preoccupied by Trichosoma Rud. Verm., 1819. 



=• = Pentaroge Giinther, 1860. (See Bleaker, Mem. Scorpen, 7, 1876). 

 As founded by Swainson, Gymna'pistes contains species of Pentaroge, 

 Centropogon, Tetraroge and Prosopadasys, all genera posterior to Swainson. 

 Oymnapistes, may therefore, be properly substituted for Pentaroge. 



* z= Synancidium, Miiller, 1843. 



* Preoccupied by Trachycephalus Tsch. 1838 (a genus of Reptiles). 




2 if 8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Ichthyscopus, p. 269 = Ichthyoscopus' Sw. (18a9.) 

 U. inernis.* Cuv. iii, pi. 65. 



Fosteri, lb. 318. • 



cirrhosus. Cuv., lb. 314. 

 laevis. lb. 319. 



Enophrys, p. 271 = Enophrys^ Sw. (1889). 

 E. claviger,* Cuv. and Val., pi. 79, fig. 2. 



Gymnocanthus, p. 271 = Gymnacanthus^ Sw. (1839). 

 G. veutralis.* Cuv. and Val., iv, pi. 79, fig. 1. 



Hippocephalus,^ p. 272 = Hippocephalus Sw. (1839). 

 superciliosus* Pall. Sp. Zool. vii, pi. 5. 

 decagonus Schn., pi. 27. quadricornus. Cuv. pi. 80. 



Canthirynchus, p. 272 = Aspidophoroides Lac. (1802). 



C. monopterygius,* Cuv. and Val., pi. 169. 

 Blenitrachus,'' p. 274 = 0. 

 Erpicthys, p. 275 = Salarias, Cuv. (1817). subg. ? Erpicthys Sw. (1839). 



Atlanticus, Cuv., ix, 322. niger, Cuv., xi. 



quadripinnis,* Riipp., 28,2. frontalis, lb., 328. 



Bebse, lb., p. 323. ruficauda, lb., 328. 



castaneus, lb., 324. quadricornis, lb., 329. 



fasciatus, lb., 324. variolatus ? lb., 346. 



Cyclops, lb., 32. fra3natus, lb., 342. 



Rupiscartes, p. 275 = Salarias Cuv. (1817). 

 R. alticus,*C. V. xi, 337. 



Cirripectes, p. 275 == Salarias Cuv. (1817). 



C. variolosus,* C. V., xi, 317. 

 Chirolophis, p. 275 = Chiroloplius^ Sw. (18?.9). 



C. yarrellii,* C. V., xi, 218. 

 Clinetrachus, p. 276 = Clinus Cuv. (1817). 



superciliosus,* Bl., pi 168. perspicillatus, C. V., xi, 372. 



Blennophis, p. 276 = Clinus' Cuv. (1817), subg. Blennophis Sw. (18.!9). 



anguillaris,* (Clinus, do. C. V., xi, 390j. 



variabilis, Raff". (1810). (Clinus argentatus, C. V., xi, 354.) 



^ = Anema Giinther, 1860, as restricted by Gill, Proc. Ac Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1861, 114. 

 *= Aapicottus Grd. (1854) = Maphocottus Sauvage. 

 ^ = Photdtoi' Kroyer, 1844. 



* Restricted by Gill, Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1861, pp. 167, 259. 



* No species mentioned, and apparently none known at the time. 

 "= Blenniops Nilsson, 1855 ; altered to Carelophus by Kroyer. 



'' Not Blennophis Val. of later date (about 1840) — Opldoblennius^ Gill, 

 1860. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t& 



Labrisomus, p. 277 = Clinus Cuv. (1817), subg. Labrisomus Sw. (1839). 



L. gobio, C. v., xi, 395. Peruvianus, C. V., xi, 383. 



pectinifer,* lb., 374. microcirrhis, lb., 384. 



capillatus, lb., 377. ? geniguttatus, lb., 86. 



Delalandii, lb., 378. elegans, lb., 388. 



linearis, lb., 371. ?littoreus, lb., 389. 



variolosus, lb., 381. latipennis, lb., 394. 



Ophisomus,' p. 277 = Mursenoides Lac. (1800). 

 O. gunnellus,* (Bleiinius gunnellus, Linn.), Yarrell, i, 239. 



Ogr.ichodes, p. 278 = Gobioides, Lac. (1800). 

 G. Broussonetii,* Griflf., Cuv., pi. 38, fig. 3. 



Scartelaos, p. 279 = Scartelaus^ Sw. (18:59). 

 Sc. viridis.* Ham., pi. 32, fig. 12. 



crysophtlialmus. lb., pi. 37, fig. 10. 



calliurns. lb., pi. 5, fig. 10. « 



Rupellia, p. 281 = Gobius L. (1758). 



R. echinocephala.* lUipp. Atl., i, pi. 34, fig. 3. 



Amphiohthys, p. 282 = Batrachus L. (1758). 

 rubigenes.* Sw. Appendix. 



Salmopbasia, p. 284 := Chela Buch. (1822). 

 oblonga. Sw. Ham., fig. 76. (Gyp. bacaila *). 

 elongata. Gray, Ind. Zool. (Cyp. cora.). 



Chedrus, p. 285 = Cbedrus Sw. (1889). 

 C. Grayii* Sw. Gray, Ind. Zool., pi. 2, f. 3. 



Esomus, p. 285 = Esomus Sw. {= Nuria C. & V. ? 1342). 

 E. vittatus.* Sw. Ham., f. 88. (Daurua). 



Clupisudis, p. 286 = Clupisudis Sw. (= Heterotis Ehrenberg, 1843). 

 C. niloticus.* Riipp., Fish of the Nile, i, pi. 3, f. 2. 



Laurida ("Aristotle"), p. 287 == Synodus Gronov. (1801). 

 L. Mediterranea 8w. ( Vol. 1, p. 246, fig. 48). 



foetans.* Bl. 384, f. 3. semifasciata. Bl. 384, f. 1. 



tumbel. lb., 430. conirostra. Spix, pi. 43. 



truncata. Spix, pi. 45. intermedia. lb., 44. 



nrinuta Le Sueur. (Vol. 1, p. 247, fig. 50), 



Triurus,^ p. 288 = Saurida VaL (1849). 

 T. microcephalus.* Russell, pi. 171. 



' = Gunnellus C. & V. (1817), rejected because of barbarous origin. 

 ^ = Boleops Gill (1863), fide Bleeker, Esq. Syst. Nat. Gobioides, 40, 

 1874. 

 ^ Preoccupied by Triurus Lac6p. 1800. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Mormyrnynchus, p. 291 = Schizodon Agass. (1829). 

 M. Gronoveii* Sw. Grouov. Zooph., pi. 7, f. 2. 



Trichosoma,^ p. 292 = Thrissa Cuv. (1817). 



Tr. Hamiltonii.* Gray, Ind. Zool., i, pi. 85, f. 3. 



Setipinna, p. 292 = Setipinna .'^w. (1839). 

 truncata Ham., p. 241, f. 72. megalura Sw., lb., p. 240. (CI. pJiasa.*) 



Platygaster,2 p. 294 = Pellona Cuv. (1817). 



PI. Africanus.* Bl. 407. parva, Gray, Ind. Zool., ii. 



megalopterus, Russ., pi. 191. pi. f. 3. 



affinis, Gray, Ind. Zool. Indicus, Russ., pi. 192. 



Cypsilurus, p. 296 = Cypselurus Sw. (1839). 



C. Nuttalii * Le Sueur. Am. Tr. ii, pi. 4, fig. 1. 

 appendiculatus. Wood. lb., iv, p. 283. 



leptodes, p. 298 = Chauliodus Bl. Schn. (1801). 

 L. sloanii.* Sch., pi. 85. L. Siculus. Sw. App. 



Tilesia, p. 300 = Gadus L. (1758), subg. T'lesia Sw. (1839). 

 T. gracilis.* Til. Piscium, i, tab. 18. 



Lepidion.^p. 300 = Haloporphyrus Gunther (1862). 

 L. rubescens * (Gadus lepidion Risso), xi, fig. 40, p. 118. 



Cephus, p. 3,00 ^ Gadus Linn. (1758). 



C. macrocepbalus.* Til. Pise, i, tab. 19. 



Psetta,* p. 302 = Bothns Raf. (1810) subg. Psetta Sw. 

 P. maximus* Blocb, pi. 49. 



Platophrys, p. 302 = Platophrys^ Sw (1839). 

 P. ocellatus,* Spix and Agassiz, pi. 46. 



' Preoccupied by Trichoaomus Sw., p. 265, as well as Trichosomus Rud. 

 Verm., 1817. 



^ Preoccupied by Platygaster Latr., Hym., 1809. 



' Preoccupied by Lepidea Sav., Verm., 1817. 



* The generic names Bothus, Raf. (1810), Scophtlialmus, Raf. (1810), and 

 Rhombus, Cuvier (1817, not of Lac. 1802), were alike based on Pleuronectes 

 rliombus, L. , and PI. maximus, L., in all cases more particularly on the 

 former, which may be taken as the type of each. If the PI. maximus, be 

 distinguished as the type of a genus or subgenus, it may stand as Psetta, 

 Sw. Lophopsetta, Gill, is strictly synonymous with Bothus, its type being 

 extremely closely allied to Bothus rhombus. 



s ^= Rhomboidiehthys Bleeker (1856). 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Brachirus, p. .".O.". == Euryglossa^ Kamp. 



plagiusa, Linn. Commersoni, Russ., No. 70. 



orientalis,* Sell., 157. jerreus, Russ., No. 71. 



zebra, Bloeli, pi. 187. Pan, Hamil., pi. 14, fig. 42. 



Hoplisoma, p. 304 =i= Corydoras Lac. (1803). 

 H. punetata,* Bloch, 377, fig. 3. 



Sturisoma, p. 304 = Loricaria L. (1766), subg. Sturisoma, Sw. 

 S. rostrata,* Spix and Agassiz, pi. 3. 



Felichthys.^ p. 305 = Feliclithys Sw. (1839). 



F. filamentosus, Bl., pi. 365. nodosus,* Bl. 368, fig. 1. 



Cyclopium, p. 305 := Cyclopium'' Sw. (1839). 

 C. humboldtii, Sw. (Pimelodus cyclopium,* Axict.) 



Silonia* p. 305 = Silondia Sw. (1839). 



S. luvida,* Ham., p. 160, 7, fig. 50. diaphina, lb., p. 162. 



Pacliypterus,^ p. -"JOe = Pseudeutropius Blkr. (1863). 



P. Atlierinoides,* Bl. 371, f. 1. punctatus. Ham., p. 196, f. 64. 



luridus, Ham., p. 163, f. 62. melanurus, lb., {Murius, Ham), p. 

 trifasciatus, lb., p. 180, f. 59. 195. 



Clupisoma, p. 306 = Clupisoma" Sw. (1839). 

 C. argenata,"' Ham., 156, pi. 21, fig. 50. 



Pusichthys, p. 307 = Schilbe Cuv. (1817). 

 P. iiranoscopus,* Riipp., Egypt., pi. 1, fig. 1, a, b. 



CotylephoTus, p. 308 = Aspredo' L. (1758). 



C. Blochii,* Sw. (Platys. eotylephorus, Bl. 372). 



Pteronotus, p. 300 = Pimelodus Lac. (1803). 

 P, 5— tentaeulatus,* Sp. and Agassiz, pi. 11. 



Acoura, p. 310 = NemacMlus Von Hasselt. (1823). 



C. obseura,* Hamilt., p. 357. argentata, lb., 358, No. 10. 



No. 9 (aberrant). cinerea, lb., 359, No. 12. 



1 =: Euryglossa, Kamp. ; plagiusa, the first species mentioned, does not 

 agree with the diagnosis, not having '*<?(!(? pectoral fins." Brachirus is 

 preoccupied by Brachyrus, Swainson, both names being abridgments of 

 Brachyehirus. 



^ =; Auchenipterus, Cuv. 1840. 



3 = Stygogenes, Gthr. (1864). 



* Misprint for Silondia = (Silundia, C. & V., 1840). 



^ Preoccupied by Pachypterus, Sol., Col. 1833. 



6 = Schilbeichthys, Bleeker, 1858, 



7 = Platystacus, Bloch, 1801. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Canthophrys, p. 310= Botia Uray (1831). 

 C. albescens,* Ham., Cob, No. 3. olivaceus, lb., No, 8. 



rubiginosus, lb.. No. 6. vittatus, lb., No. 4(aberr. ). 



Diacantha, p. 310 = Botia Gray (1831). 

 C. zebra,* Hamilt., pi, 11, f.. 96. flavicauda, pi. 29, f. 95. 



Somileptes, p. 311 = Cobitis L. (1758). 

 S, bispinosa,* Hamilt,, p, 351. unisplna, lb., No. 1, p. 350. 



Platysqualus, p. 318 = Sphyrna Raf. (1810). 

 S, tiburo,* Limi., Russ.,' pi. 13, fig. 3. 



Pterocephala, p. :!21 = Dicerobatis Blainville (1828). 

 P. Giorna,* Lac, v, pi. 20, 3. 



Tetrosomus, p. 323 = Ostraoion L. (1758), 

 T, turritus,* Bl., pi, 136, 



Lactophrys, p. 324 = Ostrscion L. (1758), subg. Lactophrys Sw. (1839). 

 L. trigonus,* Bl., pi, 35 (? 135), comutus, BL, 133. 

 bicaudalis, lb., 133. quadricornus, lb., 134. 



Bhinesomus, p. 324 = Ostracion L. (1758). 

 R. tiiqueter,* Bloch, pi. 130. concatinatus, lb., pi. 131. 



Platycanthus, p. 324 = Aracana Gray (1838). 

 P. auratus,*Shaw, Nat. Miss., pi. 338. 



Rhinecantbus, p, 325 =Balistes (1758), 

 ornatissimus,* T^esson, Atl., 10, 1. conspicullum, lb , pi. 9, 1. 

 lineatus, Benn., Cey., pi. 10. amboynensis, In. Z., 8, 3. 



Melichtbys, p, 325 = Balistes L. (1758), subg, Melicbthys Sw. 



ringens,* Bl,, pi, 152, 3. marginatus, lb. 2, pi, 15, 1, 



albicaudatus, Riipp. 2, 16, 1, Praslinensis, Frey, Atl,, 46, 1, 



CantMdermis, p. 325 -== Balistss L. (1758), subg. Cantbidermis Sw. 

 angulosus,* Frey, Zool., p. 210. Gaimardii, Sw., Frey, Zool., p, 209. 



oculatus, Ind, Zool,, pi. 90, fig. 1. 



Chalisoma, p 325 = Balistes L. (1758). 



C. pulcherrima,* Lesson, Atl,, pi. 9, fig, 2, velata, Bl. 150. 



Leiurus,2 p. ;;26 = Balistes L. (1758), 

 L. macropbthalmus, * Russ,, p, 22. 



radiatus, Bowdich, Mad., pi, 17, fig. 45, 

 Russellii, lb., pi, 23, 



Pachynathus, p. 326 = Triacantbus Cuv, (1829). 

 P, triangularis,* Russell, pi, 20. 



1 Said to be the young of Sphyrna tudes (Val.) M. & H. 

 ^ Preoccupied by Leiurus Sw., p, 242, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



Psilocephalus,' p. :;27 Psilocephalus Sw. (18.S9). 

 P. barbatus,* Gray, Ind. Zool. 



Cantherines, p. :i27 = Honacantlius Cuv. (1817), subg. Cantherines^ Sw. (1839). 

 C. nasutus,* Frey. Zool., p. 214. 



Chaetodermis, p. 327 Monacanthus Cuv. (1817), subj,'. Chsetodermis Sw. 

 C. spinosissimus,* Frey. Atl. pi. 45, fig. 3-8. 

 pennicilligerus, Cuv., Reg., An. pi. 12, fig. 3. 



Trichoderma, p. 328 = Monacanthus Cuv. (1817), subg. Amanses Gray (1831-5). 

 T. scapus,* Lac. 1, pi. 18, f. 8. histrix, Sw., Gray, Ind. Zool. 



Leisomus, p. 328 = Tetrodon L. (1758). 



T. laevissimus,* Sch., marmoratus, Hamilt., pi. 18, fig. 3. 



Lagocephalus, p. ■"•28 -^ Lagocephalus Sw. (1839). 



L. stellatus,* Bl., pi. 143. Pennantii, Yarrall, ii, 347 (? 457). 



Cirrhisomus p. 328 = Tetrodon^ L. (1758). 

 C, Sprengleri,* Bloch, pi. 144. 



Psilonotus, p. 328 = Psilonotus* Sw. (1839). 



P. rostratus,* Bl. pi. 146. Electricus, Ph. Tr. 76, pi. 3. 



Molacanthus, p. 329 = Molacanthus Sw. (1839). 

 M. Pallasii,* Sw. Pall. Spec. Zool. pi. 4. 



Astrocanthus, p. 331 = Halieutaea Val. (1837). 

 A. stellatus,* Sw., Lac. i, pi. xi, figs. 2, 3. 



Phyllopteryx, p. 332 = Phyllopteryx Sw. (1839). 

 P. foliatus,* Sw. (fig. 109). 



Solegnathus, p. 333 = Solenognathus Sw. (1839). 

 S. hardwickii,* Gray, Ind. Zool., i, pi. 89, f. 3. 



Ophisoma,'^ p. 334 = Congromuraena Kaup. (1856). 



obtusa,* Sw., Appendix. acuta, Sw., App. 



Leptognathus, p. 334 = Ophichthys Ahl. (1789), subg. Leptognathus. 

 L. oxyrhynchus,* Sw., app. (vol. 1, p. 221, fig. 42). 



Pterurus," p. 3;u = Moringua Gray (1831). 



P. maculatus,* Ham., p. 25. Triporosa, Russ. i. No. 34. 



Hardwickii, Gray, Ind. Zool. 



Pachyurus, p. 335 = Moringna Gray, (1831). 

 P. linearis,* Gray, Ind. Zool. i, pi. 95, fig. 3. 



1 = Anacanthus Gray, 1831, not of Ehrenberg, 1817. 



2 z:^ Liononacanthus Bleaker, 1866. 

 ■■• = Chilichthys Miill., 1839. 



* = Anosmius Ptrs., 1855. 

 ^ Preoccupied by (yphisomus Sw., p. 277. 

 « = Rataboura Gray, 1831-42. 

 19 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



OpMchthys/ p. 336 = Amphipnous Mull. (1839). 

 O. punctatus,* Ham., pi. 16, fig. 4 {CucMa). 



Rupisuga, p. 339 = Lepadogaster Gouan (1770). 

 L. nicensis,* Sw., Risso pi. 4, fig. 10 (? fig. 9). 



In his "natural arrangement" or analytical key to the groups 

 of Fishes, Swainson introduces several names of genera of which 

 no examples ai*e given and which do not occur further on in the 

 body of the text. They are here given with their equivalence 

 found in the text : — 



1. Cichlaurus, p. 173 = CicMasoma Sw. 



2. Pteropterus, p. 180 = Brachyrus Sw. 



3. Gobileptes, p. 183 (not in text). 



4. Psilosomus, p. 183 = Amblyopus Cuv. 



5. Scrophicephalus, p. 187 (not in text). 



6. Breviceps, p. 189 = Felichtliys Sw. 



7. Leiodon, p. 194 ^ Leisomas Sw. 



8. Canthigaster, p. 194 = Psilonotus Sw. 



These names are, in my opinion, unworthy of attention, as in 

 no case would it be possible to understand their author's meaning, 

 were it not for the fuller description given in the text. 



^ Preoccupied by Ophichthys, Ahl. (1789). 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Note on the Nest of Contopus virens. — Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 exhibited a nest of the " Wood Pewee," Contopus vii-ens, built on 

 a dead branch of a black-walnut tree on the grounds of Colonel 

 Etting, of Delaware County, Pennsylvania, showing that it was 

 fastened to the branch by spider's webs, and that the lichens with 

 which the nest was so beautifully ornamented, were evidently 

 attached to the nest in the same manner. There was no evidence 

 of the employment of " viscid saliva " in building the nest, as 

 contended by some ornithological writers. 



Mr. Meehan remarked on the great beauty of the nest of this 

 bird, in consequence of the employment of lichens in covering 

 the outside, and observed that so far as human knowledge had j^et 

 penetrated, no ph3'Siological advantage resulted to this bird by 

 the great trouble it took in this ornamentation, over other birds 

 which were inditferent to such beauty; and we were left wholly, 

 so far, to the conclusion that a love of beauty alone actuates the 

 bird in the preparation of its work. 



Note on an Abnormal Cabbage. — Mr. J. 0. Schimmel exhibited 

 a plant of cabbage, which, instead of the usual head, made a stalk 

 nearly three feet high, with a panicle of flowers at the top. 



Mr. Meeiian remarked that only on a smaller and weaker scale, 

 this was the normal condition of the cabbage-plant, as he had 

 collected it on the chalk}^ cliffs of the sea-coasts of Europe. In 

 nature the seeds matured in spring, and, falling to the ground, 

 sprouted and made plants at once, which took the rest of the 

 season to prepare for flowering the next spring. But the gardener 

 saved the seed till late in the autumn or very early spring before 

 sowing it, and this favored the vegetative rather than the repro- 

 ductive system of the plant. In this case the longitudinal growth 

 was arrested, and if we examine the regular cabbage-head, we 

 find ten, fifteen, or often more leaves forming a single cycle round 

 the stem, as in all cases of arrestation of growth — forming of a 

 cone in the pine, for instance — the number of leaves in a cycle were 

 increased. The formation of a head of cabbage was precisely 

 after the method of nature in the making of a pine cone, and this 

 was brought about simply by the change of season of sowing the 

 seed, from that provided b}' nature. In the case of this specimen, 

 nature had asserted hei- prerogative to do things in her own waj^ 

 notwithstanding the change of season by man, though she did not 

 get her way time enough to open the flowers and perfect seed. 

 Here we found onl}' five leaves to a cycle, and as we saw by the 

 overlapping bases of the leaves, which formed the cabbage-stalk, 

 the spiral arrangement was from left round to the right, or " with 

 the sun." 



Earthworms Draioing Leaves into the Ground. — Mr. Potts 

 exhibited a box of earth showing the action of the earthworm 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



drawing weeping-willow leaves into the earth. Most of them 

 were drawn into the earth by the petioles, which being the easiest 

 way, is referred to by Mr. Darwin in liis work on the earthworm, 

 as exhibiting intelligence in these humble creatures. 



Mr. Meehan remarked tiiat, though he had seen in England 

 leaves drawn into the earth as described by Mr. Darwin, he had 

 never seen a case in America, until those exhibited by Mr. Potts, 

 though for many years he had had opportunities of observations 

 enjoyed by few. The appaient rarity of this work of the earth- 

 worm in this country was worth}^ of consideration in connection 

 with the objects of the creature in performing it. 



Mr. Potts stated that the ground beneath a willow tree in his 

 garden was unusually well stocked with earthworms, many of 

 them of large size. The damp weather of the last week or two 

 had brought them to the surface at a time when the willow leaves, 

 still green and succulent, were rapidly falling. These the 

 worms collected during the night, drawing them down into their 

 burrows, he thought, to an average depth of one inch per day or 

 night. 



The appearance of the neighborhood by daylight was very 

 curious. Throughout the garden-beds, the grass-plot, the gravel- 

 walk and even along the cracks of the brick pavement, wherever 

 their burrows had reached the surface, the busy tenants had 

 "planted" these leaves perpendicularly, sometimes s in gl}-, fre- 

 quently in tufts of six, eight or more, giving the appearance of a 

 child's play-garden or of the slip-boxes in a gardener's green- 

 house. 



On digging up the tufts, worms were generally found with an 

 extremit}' near the base of the leaves ; and here the latter seemed 

 moistened and frayed as b}^ a process of feeding. The phenom- 

 enon was not entirely novel, but he had never noticed these 

 " worm-plantings " in such numbers before. 



November 21. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty -two persons present. 



Remarks^ on Ursus amplidens. — Mr. Jacob Wortman called 

 attention to a specimen originall}^ described by Dr. Leidy in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, for 

 the year 1853, and republished and figured in the Journal of the 

 Academy for the year 185(5, under tlie name Ursus amplidens^ 

 from near Natchez, Mississippi. 



The specimen upon which the description of the species was 

 based, consists of the posterior portion of the left mandibular 

 ramus, containing the third or last true molar tooth in position, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 28*7 



also a first true molar of the upper series, belonging to the left 

 side of the jaw. 



That this specimen is distinct from our black bear or Ursus 

 americanus, there can be no doubt. Both the size and structure 

 of the teeth distinctly forbid its reference to this species. The 

 only differences, however, that he had been able to find between it 

 and the typical grizzly bear, or Ursus f'<ro.r, consist in its smaller 

 dimensions, and a slight exaggeration of the anterior basal lobe 

 of the first true molar. 



The geographical position of this specimen, together with this 

 slight variation of structure, appear to have been important factors 

 in establishing its claim to rank as a new and a distinct species. 



With reference to the geographical position it may be said that 

 there are many familiar examples of the various species of bears, 

 enjoying a much wider geographical distribution than the existing 

 grizzly bear or Ursus ferox. The black bear or Ursus americanus 

 is well known to inhabit the extreme eastern and western portions 

 of the North American continent, and ranges well to the north 

 and the south. The polar bear or Ursus vxaritimus^ inhabits 

 almost, if not quite, the entire polar circle; and, indeed. Mr. G. 

 Busk has in the Transactions Philos. Soc. of London, 1873, and 

 later in Trans. Zoolog. Soc. London, for the 3'ear 1ST7, established 

 the identity of tT.s»s/b.ss?7z.s- of Groldfuss or Ursus priscus, Cuvier 

 and Owen, with our existing grizzlj' bear or Ursus fero.r. 



In view of the fact, therefore, that the grizzly bear is now known 

 to have inhabited Europe during Post Pliocene time, tliereb}'^ 

 greatly extending the boundaries of its present limits, little 

 importance need be attached to a comparatively slight deviation 

 from its present geographical range. 



There is, probably, no family among the mammalia which is 

 subject to greater variation, in size and structure, than the Ursidse. 

 The grizzly bears inhabiting the mountains of California and 

 Oregon, are larger and more robust tlian those living upon the 

 eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains. So far, indeed, is this 

 true, that some authors have made two distinct species of them. 

 The bear of the Bocky Mountain region is familiarly known to 

 hunters as the " silver-tip bear,'' aufl is said to display even more 

 pugnacit}'^ of character than the true California grizzly. 



The small size of the individual under consideration is in 

 keeping with what we should reasonably exp^^-ct to find at a 

 point considerably to the east of the present boundary of the range 

 of this species. 



The measurements of the crown of the last lower molar, are as 

 follows: Antero-posterior diameter, '75 incli ; transverse diameter, 

 •60 inch. The crown of the first upper molar measures in the 

 antero-posterior diameter '82 inch, while in the transverse diameter 

 it is '{54 incli. 



The average dimensions of the corresponding tooth of Ursus 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



ferox, as given by Mr. Busk in Trans. Pliilos. Soc, 1873, p. 542, 

 are -92 by -62 incli in the transverse, with a minimum dimension 

 of '85 by -65 inch. 



The experience of the speaker upon examination of quite a 

 number of skulls of this species, had been to reduce the minimum 

 dimension, recorded by Mr. Busk, which would affect the general 

 average. 



In one young but well marked specimen of Ursusferox, in the 

 collection of the Academy, the dimensions of the crown of the last 

 lower molar are '77 b}^ -62 inch. In another fully adult individual, 

 bearing all the characteristics of the species, the measurements of 

 this tooth are -75 by '57 inch. The dimensions of the first superior 

 molar in this specimen are the same as those in the fossil speci- 

 men under consideration. It will be observed, therefore, that 

 Ursus amplidens is intermediate in size between these two well 

 defined specimens of Ursus ferox. 



There is no character left by which we can distinguish this 

 species, but the slight exaggeration of the anterior basal lobe of 

 the superior molar, which is so ver}^ variable as to be almost 

 worthless for this purpose. 



Ursus amplidens is, therefore, but a variety at best, if not 

 identical with the smaller varieties of Ursus ferox. 



November 28. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Forty-one persons present. 



The deaths of Dr. J. F. Reinhardt and Dr. F. H. Troschel, 

 correspondents, were announced. 



Note on Zeolites from Delaware County. — Prof. Geo. A. Konig 

 communicated an observation on specimens received through Mr. 

 A. Deshong from the Leiperville quarries. The whole of the 

 material is from one crevice. One piece shows the association of 

 gray quartz, yellowish grossularite, a chloritic mica, beautiful 

 rose-red zoisi'te, and small crystals of heulandite, previously 

 described by the speaker (Proceedings 1878, p. 84). 



A second piece of biotite mica-schist shows in several druses 

 seemingly botryoidal masses, which under the lens show coxcomb 

 aggregations and arc stilbite. Alongside one observes grains of 

 zoisite surrounded by deej) green, waxy Leidyite, the surface of 

 which is generallj' covered with a very thin film of an undeter- 

 mined greenish gray substance. 



The remaining specimens show upon the same rock largely- 

 rhombohedral cr3'Stals of chabazite ; some vitreous, but mostly 

 covered by green, waxy Leidyite. This substance supports many 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



minute ciystals of red-brown siderite and the latter passes into 

 limonite. With these one sees sheaf-like aggregations of a zeolite, 

 which from the form of single crystals appears to be Thompsonite. 

 Some of these crj'stals are beautifully transparent, with tetragonal 

 habitus — two oj^posite prismatic faces are striated longitudinally 

 (pinakoid), basis and macrodome are found on all individuals. 

 The crystals are, however, ver}^ small and cannot be measured 

 satisfactoril}'. Analyses have not been made. The determina- 

 tions are not, therefore, absolute, except in the case of chabazite. 

 The resemblance of this occurrence to that of Baltimore is very 

 striking. Thompsonite is new for Pennsylvania, chabazite and 

 stilbite for Leiperville, in the speaker's knowledge. 



Chapter Y, Article 4, of the By-Laws, was amended by adding 

 the following : — But Sections maA^ admit persons not members of 

 the Academy to be Contributors under such rules and on such 

 terms as the Section mav determine, always provided, that a 

 Contributor shall not be eligible to office in a Section, or to vote 

 on any question ; and also provided, that the rights and privi- 

 leges of a Contributor shall be restricted to attendance at the 

 meetings of the Section, to the reading of original scientific 

 papers, and to taking part in scientific discussions and proceedings 

 exclusivel}', and that a Contributor shall have no other right or 

 privilege whatever in the Academy. 



F. Lynwood Garrison and Mrs. H. Carvill Lewis, were elected 

 members. 



December 5. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Twentj'^-five persons present. 



A paper, entitled " On Uintatherium, Bathmodon and Triiso- 

 don," b}' Edw. D. Cope, was presented for publication. 



December 12. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Forty-five persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 " An Identification of the Species of Fishes described in Shaw's 

 General Zoologj'," by Jos. Swain. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



" On the Value of the Nearctic as one of the Primary Zoo- 

 logical Regions," by Angelo Heilprin. 



On Remains of Horses. — Prof. Leidy directed attention to some 

 specimens, which were recently sent to him for examination by 

 the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. He remarked that 

 it was commonly believed that the horse was not living in America 

 when this was discovered by Europeans, but there is abundance 

 of evidence to prove the former existence in this country of many 

 species and genera of closely related forms. Among the remains 

 of these some are undistinguishable in anatomical characters and 

 size from the corresponding parts of the domestic horse. As this 

 during the past four centuries has become widely and abundantly 

 distributed over both continents, its remains have become buried 

 everywhere, and often in the older deposits, where they are 

 mingled with the fossils pertaining to the latter. Under these 

 circumstances it is commonly difficult and frequently impossible 

 to determine whether specimens submitted to us for examination 

 are to be regarded as true fossils or comparativel}^ recent remains. 

 Such is the character of the specimens now exhibited. 



Several consist of fragments (No. 16537-8) of the left ramus 

 of the mandible of a horse. They were obtained at Aspinwall, 

 Panama, by Capt. J. M. Dow ; but no reference is made to the 

 nature of the deposit in which they were found. They are well 

 preserved, fii-m in texture, without fissures, and stained brown 

 from' ferruginous infiltration. One of the fragments contains the 

 molar series nearly perfect except the first and last. They are 

 more than half woi'n away and agree closely with those of the 

 domestic horse in the same condition. 



Other specimens consist of an astragalus and a first phalanx 

 (16602, 16604) of a horse of the ordinar}' size. They were ob- 

 tained b}^ Mr. J. F. Le Baron, U. S. Assist. Eng., on Peace Creek, 

 Florida, in 1881, during the survey of a steamboat route from the 

 St. John's River to Charlotte harbor. They were discovered in 

 association with remains of the elephant, Elephas columbi, and a 

 huge turtle remarkable for the thickness of its shell, etc. The 

 specimens are black and well preserved, but exhibit no peculi- 

 arity. 



The remaining specimens are of more interest than the pre- 

 ceding, and consist of two bone fragments and three teeth (Nos. 

 1-5, 11629), which were obtained by Mr. Ellis Clarke, Jr., from 

 near Lacualtipan, Hidalgo, Mexico. According to the accom- 

 panying letter, they were discovered in a thirty inch cljiy bed, lying 

 between an upper four inch, and an under four feet stratum of 

 coal, overlying a limestone with small shells. The fossils belong 

 to the three-toed horse, Hippotherium ( Hippario7i) ^ and are prob- 

 ably of pliocene age, though they may be miocene. 



Of the bone fragments one is the upper extremity of a meta- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



tarsal, exhibiting on each side behind the articular impressions of 

 the smaller metatarsals. The articular end measures 13 lines 

 transversely and 11 lines fore and aft. The other fragment is the 

 proximal articular end of a first phalanx, measuring 14 lines trans- 

 versely and 8 lines fore and aft. Of the teeth two are lower 

 molars, apparently of dift'erent individuals. One, a fourth or fifth 

 of the series, is little worn, but has lost its exterior cementum. 

 It is about 2 inches long and at the triturating surface measures 

 9 lines fore and aft and 4i lines transverseh'. The other lower 

 molar, probablj^ the third of the series, is about half worn, but is 

 broken away below, and j-et retains its outer cementum. It 

 measures 9 lines fore and aft and 5 lines transversel3^ The 

 remaining tooth, the most characteristic of the specimens, is an 

 upper molar, apparently the fourth of the series of tlie right side. 

 It is but little worn, is well preserved and retains its exterior 

 cementum. It measures about 2 inches long and at the tritur- 

 ating surface is 9^ lines fore and aft and 9 lines transversel3^ 



The specimens indicate a species about the size of Hippotherium 

 venuslum and H. speciosum, but the folding of the enamel on the 

 triturating surface of the upper molar, as repre- 

 sented in the accompanying figure, is sufficiently 

 different from the arrangement in the corres- 

 ponding teeth of those species, to render it prob- 

 able that the fossils belong to neither of them. 



In H.venustum the inner column of the superior 

 molars, so far as known, is regularly cylindrical ; 

 in H. sjyeciosum it is compressed cylindrical. In 

 the tooth under inspection it is much wider than in the lattei". 

 The fossils probably indicated an undescribed species, and for this 

 the name Hippolherium montezuina was suggested. 



Prof Cope remarked that he believed that the contemporaneity 

 of man with the horse and other extinct pliocene mammals in 

 Western North America would soon be satisfactorily demon- 

 strated. The first evidence on the subject was furnished by J. D. 

 Whitney, Chief of the Geological Survey of California, in the case 

 of the Calaveras skull, which was said to be taken from the gold- 

 bearing gravel ; and in several other cases subsequently added. 

 From the fact that scientific observers were never present at the 

 unearthing of the remains of man and his works from this forma- 

 tion, the evidence has been generally regarded as inconclusive. 

 The gold-bearing gravel of California is, however, a very peculiar 

 formation, and an object buried in it would carry such marks of 

 its origin as to be quite recognizable. This was the case with the 

 Calaveras skull when first discovered, as I am informed by Prof. 

 Verrill of Yale College. This gentleman states that the skull, 

 when found, was partially filled and covered with the hard adhesive 

 " cement " so charaeteristic of the formation. 



Prof. Cope referred to two observations of his own made in 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882 



1879 in Oregon ^ and California,- which were confirmatory of the 

 existence of man in the upper pliocene of both those States, but 

 the evidence was in neither case absolutely conclusive. 



The discovery that the tracks of several species of pliocene 

 mammalia ^ in the argillaceous sandstones of the quarry of the 

 Nevada State Prison at Carson, are accompanied b}' those of a 

 biped resembling man. is a further confirmation of these views. 

 The tracks are clearly those of a biped, and are not those of a 

 member of the Simiidse, but must be referred to the Hominidae. 

 Whether thej- belong to a species of the genus Homo or not, cannot 

 be ascertained from the tracks alone, but can be determined on 

 the discovery of the bones and teeth. In an^^ case the animal was 

 proba])l3' the ancestor of existing man, and was a contemporary of 

 the Elephas primigenius and a species of Equus. 



Professor Lewis drew attention to the caution that should be 

 taken in accepting as evidences of pliocene man any facts as yet 

 not verified b}' scientific observers. While the facts proving a post- 

 glacial man are indisputable, the existence of pre-glacial man, either 

 in our own country or in Europe, is not attested by satisfactory 

 evidence. The discoveries in California, just referred to, made 

 for the most part b}' miners in their search for gold, carry with 

 them several serious objections to the great antiquity assigned to 

 the relics thus found. 



In the first place, the characters of the implements are identical 

 with those of modern workmanship, while the Calaveras skull 

 closely resembles that of a modern Indian. The implements, 

 consisting of large granite mortars, polished spearheads of obsidian, 

 gaming disks, finely marked pendants of greenstone and syenite, 

 hammers, pestles, arrowheads, beads, etc., are of quite as perfect 

 workmanship as those produced b}' the present aborigines of the 

 country. No modern implements surpass the beauty of the 

 obsidian spearheads thus found. The fact is not generall}' 

 mentioned that implements in all respects similar to those of the 

 auriferous gravel occur upon the surface of the ground, having 

 been made by well-known tribes. Nor is the skull in any wa}"^ 

 inferior to those of the present da}'. 



Moreover, there is no evidence of the great antiquity either of 

 the Calaveras skull or of the implements b}- the amount of weathering 

 or corrosion that they have suftered. Unlike the palivolithic 

 implements of Europe and of Eastern America, the spearheads and 

 mortars of the Californian gravels are as fresh in appearance as 

 those made by modern tribes. Noris the compact gravel adhering 

 to the Calaveras skull a mark of great antiquity, since the forma- 

 tion of even more compact gravels and conglomerates may occur 



' American Naturalist, 1880, p. 62. 



^ Loc. cit, 1878, p. 125. 



3 Loc. cit., 1881, p. 195 and 921. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



in quite recent times. It is unnecessary here, in support of tliis 

 fact, to more than mention the modern coins and other objects so 

 frequently found in a compact gravel firmly cemented. 



Again, there is no sufficient CA'idence that the gravel in which 

 man}' of these relics were reported to have been found was undis- 

 turbed. Most of the implements were found on the banks of 

 streams, some of them in the bottom of river-beds, in both of 

 which i)laces landslips may have occurred, while the few found in 

 shafts have never been satisfactorily demonstrated to lie in a 

 position which could not have been disturbed. 



The very fact that these relics all occur in a gold-bearing gravel 

 may indicate the method by which many of them were buried. 

 That gold-mining was carried on in these same gravels by the 

 aborigines upon an extensive scale is well attested. Schoolcraft 

 describes an ancient shaft which penetrated Table Mountain to a 

 depth of 210 feet, at the bottom of which were human bones and 

 implements. This is the very localit}- where a number of imple- 

 ments and a skull of supposed pliocene man were afterwards found. 

 Other authorities might be quoted to show the numerous mining 

 operations of the aborigines. The mortars already described 

 were probably used in the process of extracting gold from the 

 gravel. 



Another point of importance is the fiict that the earliest relics 

 of man, either in the river gravels of Europe and Great Britain, 

 or in those of the Delaware, are of an ancient type, unlike those 

 of more recent times. These palaeolithic implements, with the 

 associated bones of animals now extinct, are the most certain evi- 

 dences of primeval man, and belong to the age immediatel}^ fol- 

 lowing the glacial epoch. It is not, thei'efore, probable that the 

 highly fashioned implements of California, havingthe most neolithic 

 type, belong to a race of pre-glacial men anterior to those of the 

 river gravels of Europe. The argument from analog}' is so strong- 

 against the great antiquity of the Californian relics, that evidence 

 of the most satisfactory kind must be required to support such a 

 conclusion. 



The following was ordered to be published : — 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



ON UINTATHEKIUM, BATHMODON AND TRIISODON. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 

 Bathmodon pachypus Cope, sp. nov. 



The species originally described b}- me under the name of 

 Bathmodon radians, was based on a number of specimens 

 obtained by Dr. Hay den, from the Wasatch formation near 

 Evanston, Wyoming. I subsequently ascertained that this mate- 

 rial included two species, a larger and a smaller. The latter I 

 described under the name of Bathmodon laiipes^: for the larger 

 the name of Bathmodon radians was retained. Besides various 

 diversities between the skeletons of these species, their astragali 

 exhibit characters which indicate that the genus Bathmodon is 

 distinct from Cor yjyhodon, although I have admitted their supposed 

 identity in some of m}' publications. ^ I pointed out the diiferen- 

 tial characters of the two genera in 1882,^ but did not then express 

 the most important feature. I then defined Bathmodon as follows : 

 "Astragalus subquadrate, without internal hook," and Coryphodon, 

 "Astragalus transverse, with internal hook." The absence of the 

 internal prolongation of the astragalus in Bathmodon, is due to 

 the presence of a facet for articulation with some bone, which is 

 not found in Coryphodon. This may have been a proximal 

 prolongation of the entocuneiform, or perhaps a distinct bone, 

 or even the proximal extremity of the metacarpus of the 

 hallux. 



Besides the B. radians, I am acquainted with a second species 

 of superior dimensions. The remains consist of a pelvis with 

 femur and several bones of the posterior leg and foot, and the 

 humerus and radius of the foreleg. These bones are as long as 

 those of the largest known Coryphodon (C. ana.r), and are more 

 robust. In description of this new species, which I call Bathmodon 

 pachypus, I give the following dimensions : — 



' Annual Report U. 8. Geolog. Survey Terrs., 1872, p. 588, 

 '' Report U. S. G. Survey W. of the 100th Meridian, iv, 1877, p. 187. 

 ^ American Naturalist, Jan. 1882, Proceeds. Amer. Philos. Society, 1881, 

 p. 165. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



295 



Length of liumenis, 



transverse oblique, 



■n- ^ /. • 1 i. -i. I anteroposterior, 



Diameters of proximal extremit}' < ^ ' 



Width at epicondyles, . 



T-k- A. f J 1 ( transverse, 

 Diameters of cona3'les < ' 



oiler, 



lor, 



M. 



•400 



•101 



•159 



•166 



•112 



•058 



•08T 



•600 



•350 



•110 



•150 



•160 



•521 



•160 



•080 



•066 



•106 



•134 



•126 



•0675 



•0800 



•100 



anteroposterior ( 



(flange, 



Length of pelvis antero-posteriorl}^, 



Chord of crest of ilium, 



Anteroposterior width of peduncle ilium, 



Length of ischium from acetabulum, . 



Length of pubis to sj-mphysis do,, 



Length of femur, .... 



Width of femur proximate!}', 



Diameter of head of femur, 



Diameter of shaft above third trochanter. 



Diameter of shaft at third trochanter. 



Width of condyles of femur. 



Depth of cond3'les with rotular crest, 



T\- . ^4. 11 (anteroposte 



Diameters of astragalus above J ^ 



(transverse, 



Length of calcaneum, .... 

 From the Wasatch of the Big Horn, J. L. Wortma 



TTintatherium robustum Leid.v. 



I have for some years had in 1113^ possession a fragmentary 

 lower jaw from the Bridger beds of Wj^oming, which I have been 

 unable to refer to its proper place in the sj-stem. It is described 

 in part in the Annual Report of the U. S. Geological Survej- of 

 the Territories, 1812, p. 565. The rami support roots and crowns 

 of six molars, and the symphysis has two alveoli on each side. 

 The peculiarit}^ of the animal consists in this latter fact, since the 

 species so far as described, are said to have four teeth on each 

 side of the symphj^sis, viz., three incisors and one canine. Those 

 present in the present species I suppose to be incisors. The 

 molar teeth are so much like those of Uintatherium robustum^ 

 that I believe the specimen to belong to that species. 



Symphysis very much compressed, so that the incisor teeth of 

 opposite sides are close together ; its inferior outline curv^ed 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



upwards to the alveolar edge, in an obtuse keel. Base of flange 

 for superior canine distinct, commencing below the posterior 

 edge of the posterior alveolus, and immediately preceded by 

 a mental foramen. Middle line of symphysis rugose. Ramus 

 at last molar robust, owing to the prominence of the inferior 

 part of the anterioi- masseteric ridge. In connection with the 

 oblique position of the head, the inferior molars are oblique to 

 the long axis of the ramus, sloping upwards and backwards, with 

 exposed anterior roots. The molars increase in size posteriorly, 

 and the last one is abruptly larger than the penultimate. Their 

 structure is as in U. rohustum, i. e., with an obliquely transverse 

 high crest in front, and a low posterior transverse edge of the heel, 

 and a short oblique crest between the two. The last named is 

 short, and is directed obliquely outwards and forwards towards 

 the external extremity of the anterior crest, but disappears before 

 reaching it. The internal extremity of this and of the low poste- 

 rior crest, with the external extremity of the anterior crest, rise 

 into cusps. At the middle of the anterior base of the anterior 

 transverse crest there is a tubercle, which represents the anterior 

 limb of the anterior Y in Coryphodon. The crowns of the pre- 

 molars are broken awa}' in the specimen. 



The alveoli of the incisors are flat, and are directed forwards at 

 an angle of onl}" 20° from the horizontal until near their orifices, 

 where the angle is greater. The roots of the incisors are thus 

 curved upwards and forwards. There is but little space between 

 the anterior alveolus and the anterior angle of the S3'^mphysis. 



Measurements. m. 



Length from anterior edge of symphj^sis to anterior 



base of canine flang?, ..... -074 



Width of symphysis below at bases of lateral flanges, -032 

 Depth of symphysis between do., .... -040 

 Width of symphysis above between posterior in- 

 cisors, . . . . . . . . -on 



Length of bases of posterior five molars, . . -148 

 Length of bases of true molars, . . . . '110 



Diameters crown, m. ii, ('-^"teroposterior, . . -031 

 (transverse in front, . . 020 



Diameters crown, m.iii, I ^^^^^'^l'^^*^^^"^^^' " ' '^^S 

 (transverse in front, . . -025 



Width of ramus at posterior edge of m. iii, . . -040 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29T 



Although the crowns are somewhat worn, the enamel is wrinkled 

 intermediately between coarse and fine. 



The specimen described was obtained in the Bridger beds on 

 Henr^-'s Fork of Green River, Wyoming, 



Triisodon conidens Cope. 



A right maxillary bone and corresponding mandibular ramus 

 represent this species in my collection. The former sustains the 

 last five molars, and the latter the last three, with alveoli of the 

 others and of the canine tooth. The pieces indicate a skull of the 

 size of that of the wolf, and a good deal more robust in its ver- 

 tical measurements. 



The third superior premolar has a base of triangular outline, the 

 external side longer than either of the internal, which are con- 

 nected by a broadly rounded angle. The external cusp is of 

 lenticular section at the base, and circular section near th| apex. 

 An internal cusp is represented by a strong cingulum as in 

 Periptychus^ which connects with the posterior base of the ex- 

 ternal cusp. The crown of the fourth superior premolar has a 

 triangular base of which the anterior side is shorter than either of 

 the other two, which are subequal. The external cusp is large, 

 simple, and subconic. The internal is distinct but smaller and is 

 continued posteriorly as a cingulum to the posterior base of the 

 external cusp. No internal cingulum. The crown of the first true 

 molar is worn to the roots. The second true molar is the longest 

 of the series. Its base is a triangle, placed transversely to the axis 

 of the jaw, of which the external side is the shortest, the anterior 

 the next longer, and the posterior the longest. The apex or internal 

 extremit}^ of the crown is obtusely rounded. There are two sub- 

 equal external cusps, which are injured in the specimen. The 

 internal cusp is the apex of a V whose limbs form the anterior and 

 posterior edges of the grinding face of the ci'own, extending out- 

 wards to near the bases of the external cusps. Posterior to the 

 posterior one is a strong basal cingulum. No internal, and a faint 

 anterior cingulum. There is probably an external cingulum, but 

 it is broken away. The last molar is of an oval outline placed 

 transversely to the cranial axis, both the external and internal ex- 

 tremities contracted, the latter a little the more so. There is a large 

 anterior external conical cusp. The posterior external is small, 

 and is situated at the posterior third of the posterior border of the 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



crown. The internal cusp is well developed, and has a subcircnlar 

 section. There are strong external and posterior cingula, and a 

 weak anterior one, but no internal eingulum. The posterior 

 extremitj^ of the maxillary bone within the zygoma, is imme- 

 diately above the posterior border of the last superior molar. 



Measurements of Superior Molars. m. 



Length of bases of posterior five, . . . -069 



Diameters base, Pm. iii, (anteroposterior, . -013 



(^ transverse, . . -009 



Diameters base, Pm. iv, (anteroposterior, . -0145 



(transverse, . . .-014 

 liCngth base of true molars, .... -039 



Diameters base of m. ii, (anteroposterior, . -0175 



(transverse, . . -021 



Diameters base, m. iii, \ ^^^^^'^Vo^^^riov , . . -010 



( transvei'se, . . . -OltS 



Elevation of base of zygoma, above base of m. iii, -018 



The ramus of the lower jaw is, as usually with the Creodonta, 

 deeper and less robust than that of Carnivora of corresponding 

 size. It is also more compressed than that of the Triisodon 

 quivirensis. It retains its depth to below the canine teeth, and 

 does not shallow below the middle of the coronoid process, where 

 also there is no tendency to inflection. The anterior masseteric 

 ridge is not ver^- prominent, and the masseteric fossa is not defined 

 below, nor is the inferior edge of the ramus prominent or ridged 

 at that point. 



The premolar teeth are lost, but they occupied but a short 

 space, and were probablj^ onl}^ tliree in number. The first and 

 second true molars are subequal, while the third is a little smaller 

 than either. Each consists of an anterior higher and a posterior 

 lower portion, the lower region being at the junction of the two. 

 The anterior part has a nearly circular section, and contracts 

 towards the apex. The latter is divided into three cusps, a larger 

 external and two lesser internal. The external and posterior 

 internal soon fuse on wearing, and their combined section is a 

 crescent. The anterior inner is small and stands near the inner 

 edge of the crown, and not at the middle as in T. quivirensis^ and 

 is circular in section. The heel of the tooth rises to its posterior 

 border, which is divided into two cusps. Each of these sends a 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



ridge forwards towards the base of the anterior cone of the tooth. 

 The external is the larger, and reaches that base. The internal is 

 smaller, and falls short of it. The posterior inferior molar differs 

 from the others in form as well as in size. There is no posterior 

 inner anterior cusp, the large external cusp being supplemented 

 by a small anterior internal only, which sends a little ridge down- 

 wards and posteriorly. The heel is narrowed, and supports the 

 two cusps on its posterior border in contact, and not separate as 

 on the other teeth. The external is the larger, and extends 

 forwards to the base of the anterior cone near its middle. 

 Some remnants of hard matrix leave it uncertain whether there is 

 a small median posterior marginal tubercle on the first and second 

 molars or not. 



The first inferior true molar has a strong external cingulum ; 

 the second has none ; the third has one, which is most evident 

 between the cusps, is weaker at the base of the posterior lobe, and 

 faint at the anterior lobe. No internal cingula. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of true molar series, . . ... . '052 



Length from m. iii to anterior masseteric ridge, . "OlS 



-rx- , ^ • (anteroposterior, . . . -017 



Diameters of m. i, - ^ ' 



< transverse, . . . . 'OIId 



T,. , xy •• (anteroposterior, . . . '018 



Diameters of m. ii, - ^ ' 



(transverse, . . . . *01I 



Diameters of m. iii. 



(anteroposterior, . . . '016 



' (transverse, . . . . 'OlOS 



Depth of ramus at m. iii, "047 



Width of ramus at m. iii, inferiorly, . . . "013 



The molar teeth of this species are more like those of the T. 

 heilprinianiis than those of the T. quivirensis. This is seen in 

 the more conic character of the anterior lobe of the tooth, and 

 the better development of the anterior inner cusp. The species 

 is a good deal larger than the T. quivirensis. 



From the Puerco beds of N. W. New Mexico, D. Baldwin, 



Note. — The superior molar teeth sliow a resemblance to those 

 of Mesonyx, and also to those of Deltatherium. Among tlie Me- 

 sonychidae, Triisodon approaclies Sarcothravstes in the form of 

 the inferior molars, in the expanded heel. On the other hand, the 



20 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OT [1882. 



appearance of the anterior cusp of the inferior molars approaches 

 what is seen in Amblyctonus. The small transverse posterior 

 superior molar of Triisodon further distinguishes it from Amblyc- 

 tonus. A series of modifications of the dental characters proceeding 

 from the simple to the more complex, may be constructed as follows : 

 I. Mesonyx ; 2. Dissacus; 3. Sarcothraustes ; 4. Triisodon; 5. 

 Amblyctonus ; 6. Deltatherium. The first three belong to the 

 Mesonychidae, as distinguished by the form of the tarsal articu- 

 lations. Whether Triisodon must be arranged with Amblyctonus 

 or not, cannot be ascertained until the foot structure is known. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



December 19. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-five i)ersons present. 



The deaths of Jos. S. Lovering, Jr., and Dr. John Forsyth 

 Meigs, members, were announced. 



On an extinct Peccary. — Prof. Leidy said he regarded it as 

 remarkable, that among the mulitude of remains of extinct mam- 

 mals found in this countiy , many of which were of genera common 

 to the old world, no well authenticated remains of Hippopotamus 

 and of the Hog had been discovered. The representative of the 

 latter in this country is the Peccary, of which there are two known 

 living species, pertaining to South America, with one of them 

 extending into Mexico and Texas. The remains of a number of 

 extinct species have been found in the United States and territo- 

 ries, partly referable to Dicotyles, and others to a nearly allied 

 genus, described by Dr. Le Conte under the name of Platygonus. 

 In this the constituent lobes of the molar teeth are conspicuously 

 prominent, comparative!}' smooth, and approximate in form those 

 of ruminants. In Dicotyles the}^ are comparatively low, wrinkled, 

 and approximate more those of the hog. 



Several fossil specimens exhibited, probably indicate an unde- 

 scribed species of Platygonus.^ larger and of more robust propor- 

 tions than the P. compressus. They have been submitted for 

 examination by Mr. Wm. B. Henderson, who reports that they 

 wex'e found in clay and gravel, in a limestone quarry, in Mifflin 

 Co., Pa. The}' consist of two jaw fragments with teeth, the bone 

 being encrustated with a hard ferruginous cement of limestone 

 and gravel. The lower jaw fragment contains the greater part of 

 the last two molars. The jaw below the position of the first 

 molar is thick and shallow ; below the last tooth it abruptly 

 deepens, and a short distance back is nearly double the depth. 

 The upper jaw fragment contains the greater part of the molars 

 and last premolar. The upper teeth exhibit a well produced basal 

 ridge fore and aft, but none laterally, except the feeble elements 

 of it between the lobes of the crowns. 



Comparative measurements of the two fossil specimens with 

 corresponding parts in the skull of P. compressus are as follows : 



p. retus. P. compressus. 



Depth of lower jaw below first molar, 42 mm. 37 mm. 



Thickness of lower jaw below first molar, 22 " 17 " 



Depth of lower jaw back of last molar, 78 " 45 " 



Space occupied by the last two molars, 47 " 38 " 




302 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



Fore and aft diameter of second molar, 

 Transverse diameter of second molar, 

 Fore and aft diameter of last molar, 

 Transverse diameter of last molar, 

 Breadth of face ontside last premolars, 

 Breadth of face outside last molars, 

 Space occupied by upper molars, 

 Fore and aft diameter of first molar. 

 Transverse diameter of first molar, 

 Fore and aft diameter of second molar, 

 . Transverse diameter of second molar. 

 Fore and aft diameter of last molar, 

 Transverse diameter of last molar. 

 Fore and aft diameter of last premolar. 

 Transverse diameter of last premolar, 



The species may be named Platygonus vetus 

 no means certain that it does not pertain to one 

 scribed by Prof. Marsh, from the western territor 



though it is by 

 of the forms de- 



es. 



The following was ordered to be printed 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



303 



AN IDENTIFICATION OF THE SPECIES OF FISHES DESCEIBED IN 

 SHAW'S GENERAL ZOOLOGY. 



BY JOSEPH SWAIN. 



In the earl}'- part of the present centiuy, Dr. George Shaw 

 compiled a " General Zoology " or " Systematic Natural History," 

 which was to contain descriptions of all the animals then known. 

 In the two volumes on fishes,^ he introduced a large number of 

 new specific names, most of them arbitrary, and unwarranted 

 alterations of prior names, the rest chiefly for species described 

 by travelers, which had been for one reason or another left without 

 binomial designation. Of all the various compilations of the kind, 

 pertaining to fishes, tliis work of Shaw's is probably the least 

 worth3\ Some of the names, however, have priority of date. I 

 here give a list of all the new generic and specific names intro- 

 duced b}'^ Shaw, with the name which the form in question should 

 bear, so far as I can ascertain it. 



Cases involving difficultj- of identification or doubt as to proper 

 nomenclature, have been referred to Prof. Jordan, to whom I am 

 also indebted for numerous suggestions, and for the use of his 

 library. 



Anguilla vulgaris, . 

 Muraena romana, 

 Mursena afiicana, 

 Murajna meleagris, . 

 Muraena' viiidis, 

 Mouopterus javanicus, 

 Odontoguathus abdomiue acu- 



leata, . 

 Triui-us* commersonii, 

 Genus Stylepliorus, . 



' General Zoology of Systematic Natural History, by George Shaw, M. 

 D., F. R. S., etc., with plates from the first authorities and most select 

 specimens. Engraved principally by Mr. Heath, London (vol. iv, 1803 ; 

 vol. V, 1804). 



■^ Prior to Anguilla vulgaris Turton (1806), and Rafinesque (1810). 



^ Murmna viridis is based on ^'■Serpens Marinus amerieanus, Seb. 3, t. 

 70, f. 2," apparently not identifiable. 



* Based on Triurus hougainvillianiis La Cepcde, ii, 201. 




304 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



NAME. 



Stylephorus cordatus, 

 Xiphias platypterus, 

 Xiphias makaira, . 

 Gadus' leverianus, 

 Bleiinius trifurcatus, 

 Cepola hermaniiiana, 

 Gymuetras ascanii, 

 Genus Vandellius, , 

 Gobius ater, 

 Gobiomorus australis, 

 Cottus* australis, 

 Scorpsena commersonii, 

 Scorpsena bicapillata, 

 Scorpsena brachiata, 

 Zeus opah, 



Pleuronectes roseus, 

 Pleuronectes rondeletii, 

 Pleuronectes^ argenteus, 

 Pleuronectes diaphanus, 

 Pleuronectes tuberculatus, 

 Cbaetodon imperialis, 



Chaetodon bifasciatus, 



Cbaetodon plectorbyncbus, 



rDENTIFICATlON. 



Stylepborus cordatus, Sbaw. 

 Xipbias gladius, Linnaeus. 

 Histiopborusgladius (Brouss. }La C. 



9 



Raniceps trifurcus (Walb.), Cuv. 

 Taenioides herraannii,^ La Cepede. 

 Regalecus glesne, Ascan. 

 Lepidopus (Gouan), Bl. & Scbn. 

 Gobius ater,-' Sbaw. 

 Eleotris strigata (Brouss.), C. «fc V. 



9 



Pterois volitans (L.), C. &. V. 

 Synancia bicirrata (La C), Swain, 

 Synancia verrucosa, Blocb. 

 Lampiis guttatus (Briinnicb), 



Retzius. 

 Pleuronectes fiesus, L. 

 Solea ocellata (L.), Giinther. 



? 

 Arnoglossus laterna (Walb.) Giint. 

 Psetta maxima (L.), Swainson. 

 Holacantbus imperator (Blocb.), 



LaC. 

 Heniocbus macrolepidotus (L.), 



C. & V. 

 Plectorbyncbus cbaetodontoides, 



LaC. 

 Monoceros tuberosus (LaC), Swain. 

 Acautburus, sp. 



Monoceros lituratus (Forst.) Swain. 

 Acantburus acbilles, Sbaw. 



^ Described from a specimen in tbe Leverian Museum, whicb is "sup- 

 posed " to be a native of tbe Soutbern Ocean, being placed in a collection 

 of fisbes taken during tbe last voyage of Captain Cook. 



■■i Not hermannianus, as usually quoted. 



^ Gobius ater Sbaw, is based on Gobius niger La C. (not of Linnaeus). If 

 tbis is a valid species, it seems to bave been overlooked by otber writers. 



* Cottus australis Sbaw, is "a doubtful species ; described by myself in 

 Mr. Wbite's Voyage to Botany Bay" (Sbaw). 



^ Pleuronectes argenteus is based on a partial description by Fetiver, in 

 "Gazopb. 10, t. 26." 



* "Native of tbe Indian and American seas. In tbe British and Lever- 

 ian Museums." (Sbaw.) 



'" Native of tbe Indian seas. In tbe Britisb Muse»m." (Sbaw.) 



342 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



305 



NAMB. 



Acanthurus' meleagris, 

 Trichopus arabious, 

 Trichoijus satyrus, 

 Trichopus ijallasii, 



PAOB. 



385 

 390 

 391 

 392 



Trichopus monodactylus, . 392 

 Scarus pui-puratus, . . 397 



Scarus- rostratus, . 

 Sparus^ bicinctus, . 

 Sparus bruunichii, 

 Spai'us commersonii, 

 Sparus melanotus, . 



401 

 418 

 424 

 428 

 431 



Sparus luna, .... 433 



Sparus serran, . . . 439 



Sparus^ sciurus, . pi. 64. 439 



Sparus argyropthalmus, 441 



IDENTIFICATION. 

 ? 



Thalassoma lunare (L.), Swain. 

 Osphromenus goramy, La C^pcde. 

 Osphromeuus trichopterus (Pall.), 



Giinther. 

 Monodactylus falciformis, La Ce- 



pede. 

 Thalassoma purpuream (Forsk.;, 



Swaiuson. 

 ? 

 ? 

 Sparus bogaraveo, Briinn. 

 Gerres oyena (Forsk.), Cuv. & Val. 

 Lutjanus argentiuaculatus (Forsk.), 



Swain. 

 Lutjanus chrysurus (Bloch),Vaill. 

 Serranus cabrilla (L.), Risso. 

 Serranus foniiosus (L.), J. & G. 

 Priacanthus^ macrophthalmus 



(Bloch), Swain. 



Thalliurus fasciatus (Thun.), Swu. 

 Xyrichthys fuscus (La C), Swain. 

 Xyrichthys fuscus (La C), Swain. 

 Conodon nobilis (L.), J. & G. 



? 

 Lutjanus johnii (Bloch), Vaill. 

 Epinephelus striatus (Bloch), Gill. 



? 

 ? Lutjanus, sp. 



^ "Native of the Indian and American seas. In the British Museum." 

 (Shaw.) 



"^ "Slightly described by Cepede from the MSS. of Commerson." 

 (Shaw.) ' 



3 Based on " Sp. hivittatus Bloch, t. 263." 



* Sparus sciurus Shaw, includes Diabasis elegans (C. &Y.) J. «S; G. and 

 Serranus formosus (L.) J. & G. S. sciurus may be considered as a syn- 

 onym of S. formosus. 



^ Not P. macrophthalmus Cuv. and Val. = P. arenatus C. & V- 



* Based on Sparus capistratus Gmelin. 

 ' Based on Perca palpebrosa L. 



* Based on Anthias lineatus Bloch, t. 326, f. 1. 



* Based on Lutjanus albo-aureus La Cepede, iv, 239. 




306 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



NAME. PAGE. 



Sparus^ sigillatus, , . . 474 



Goiiiphosus vaiiegatus, pi. 69, 480 



Labrus albidus, . . . 490 



Labrus undulatus, . . . 496 



Labrus ballauus, . pi. 71, 498 



Labrus ascanii, . . . 512 



Labrus- carinatus, . , . 523 



Labrus^ cupreus, . . . 527 



Sci^ena gibbosa, . . . 539 



Holocentrus decussatus, . 557 



Holocentrus japonicus, . . 565 



Holocentrus testudineus, . 566 



Holocentrus margiuatus, . 566 



Holocentrus bicolor, . . 568 



Bodianus zebra, . . . 574 



Bodianus lunulatus, . . 575 

 Scomber madagascariensis, 



pi. 75, 590 



Scomber** botla, . . .591 



Scomber leopardus, . .591 



Scomber maculosus, . . 592 



Scomber" nigricollis, . . 597 



Gasterosteus carolinensis, . 608 



Gasterosteus canadensis, . 609 



Mullus indicus, . . . 614 



Mullus bandi, . . , 615 



Mullus'' radiatus, . . , 618 



Mullus aureovittatus, . .618 



IDENTIFICATION. 

 ? 



Gomphosus varius, La Cepede. 

 Peicis tetracanthus (La C), Swain. 

 Julis lunaris (L.), Cuv. «&; Val. 

 Labrus bergylta, Ascanius. 

 Cynaedus melops (L.), Swain, 



? 



? 

 Lutjanus gibbus, Bloch. 

 Epinephelus* decussatus (Shaw), 



Swain. 

 Epineplielus^ rubei', Bloch. 

 Epinephelus brunneus, Bloch. 

 Epinephelus marginalis, Bloch. 

 Epinephelus albofuscus (La C), 



Swain. 

 Bodianus boenack, Bloch. 

 Bodianus lunaris (Forsk.), Swain. 

 Scombroides lysan (Forsk.), Swn. 



Scomberomorus guttatus (Bl. and 



Sell.), Swain. 

 Scomberomorus commersonii (La 



C), Swain. 

 Teuthis, sp. 



Trachynotus carolinus (L.), Gill. 

 Elacate Canada (L.), Gill. 

 Upeneus indicus (Shaw), Giinther. 

 Upeneoides vittatus, Bleeker. 

 Upeneus, sp. 

 Upeneus flavolineatus, C. & V. 



^ Based on Lutjanus elUptico-flavus La Cepede, iv, 240. 



•^ Based on Labrus aristatus La Cepede, iii, 445. 



2 Based on Johnius cenetis Bloch, vii, 135, taf. 357. 



' Not identified. Based on Epineplielus striatus Bloch, not Anathias 

 siriatus Bloch, also an Epinephelus. 



^ Not identified by recent writers. 



* Based on ^^ Botla Parah. Russell's Indian Fishes, pi. 142 and var. ? 

 pi. 137." 



' Based ou Centrogaster argentatus Gmel., Syst. Nat., 1387. 



'* Not identified by recent writers. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



307 



NAME. 



Trigla' japonica. 

 Genus Tracliiclvtbys, 

 Trachichthys austral is, 



PAGK, IDENTIFICATIOK. 



. 634 [ ? Ceplialacanthus, sp. 



. 680 Genus Trachichthys, Shaw. 



. 630 Trachichthys australis, Shaw. 



vol. V. 



NAME. 



Loricaria- accipenser, 

 Loricaria dentata, 

 Loricaria flava, 

 Salmo' phinoc, 

 Salmo salmulus, 

 Salmo fulvus, . 

 Salmo rostratus, 

 Esox barracauda, 

 Esox cepedianus, 



Esox leverianus, 



PAGE. 



. m 



. 37 



. 88 



. 54 



. 55 



. 80 



. 86 



. 105 



pi. 110, 117 



. 118 



Cyprinus^ rondeletii, pi. 123, 194 

 Cyprinus" pomeranicus, . . 203 

 Cyprinus' ferrugineus, pi. 131, 218 

 Cyprinus punctatus, . • 220 



Cyprinus serta, . . . 233 



Cyprinus lancastriensis, . . 334 

 Petromyzon plumbeus, . . 363 



IDENTIFICATION. 



Loricaria maculata, Bloch. 

 Loricaria catapliracta, L. 

 Hypostomusplecostomus(L.),C«fcV. 

 ? Salmo trutta, L. 

 Salmo salar, L. 



Sarcodaces odoe fBloch), Giinther. 

 Coregonus oxyrhynchus, L. 

 Sphyrsena picuda, Bl. & Sch. 

 Lepidosteus tristsechus ( Bl. & Sch.), 



J. & G. 

 Lepidosteus tristsechus (Bl. »& Sch.), 



J. & G. 

 Chauliodus sloanii, Bl. & Sch. 

 Polypterus bichir, GeofFroy. 

 ? Mugil, sp. 



Polynemus plebejus, Gmel. 

 Polynemus indicus, Shaw. 

 Polynemus tetradactylus, Shaw. 

 Polynemus plebejus, Gmel. 

 Megalops cyprinoides (Brouss.), 



Bleeker. 

 Cyprinus carpio, L. 

 '? 



Cyprinus carpio, L. 

 Abramis bipunctatus (Bloch), Gun. 

 Abramis vimba ( L. ), C. & V. 

 Pqualius leuciscus (L. ), Heckel. 

 Petromyzon branchialis, L. 



' Based on Trigla alata, Gmel. Syst. Nat., 1346. 



* Loricaria accipenser Shaw, includes Loricaria maculata Bloch, and 

 Loricaria cataphraeta L. 



•' Based on "White Salmon, Peun., Brit. Zool." 



* Based on ^' Peddarki Sovero Russ. pise, t. 182." 



* Apparently a monstrosity: based on "Rondel, aquat. 2, p. 155." 

 ® Based on " Cyprinus buggenhagfi Bloch, t. 95." 



' Apparently a monstrosity ; based on "Cyprin rouge-brun, Cepede, 6, 

 p. 490." 




308 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



NAMB. PAGE. 



Petromyzon bi color, . . 263 



Raja chagrinea, . . .281 



Raja fasciata, . pi. 143, 286 



Lophius" marmaratus, pl. 165, 38t) 

 Cyclopterus" pyraraidatus, 



pl. 167, 890 

 Cyclopterus pavoninus, 



pl. 167, 391 

 Cyclopterus* bispinosus, . 396 



Cyclopterus cornubicus, . 397 



IDKNTIFICATION. 



Petromyzon branchialis, L. 



Raja fullonica, L. 



Myliobatis nieuhofii (Bl. & Sch.), 



C. & V. 

 Pteroplatea micrura (Bl. & Sch.), 



Miill. & Heule. 

 ? Dicerobatis giornae (LaC.),Gunth. 



? 



? 

 Rhinobatus thouiuianus (Shaw), 



Swain. 

 Raja clavata, L. 



Cestracion philippi (Bl. «& Schn.), 

 Cuvier. 



? 

 Stegostoma tigrlnum (L.), Giinther. 

 Pristis cuspidatus, Lathana. 

 Genus Polyodon, La Cepede. 

 Polyodon spathula ( Walb.),J. & G. 

 Chimaei'a monstrosa, L. 

 Callorhynchus australis (Shaw), 



Owen. 

 Lophius piscatorius, L. 

 Lophius piscatorius, L. 

 Halieutsea stellata ( Walb. ), C. & Y. 

 Malthe vespertilio (L.), C. & V. 

 Antennariusmultiocellatus(C.&V.) 

 Giinther, var. leucosoma Sleeker. 

 Anteunarius, sp. 

 Cyclopterus lumpue, L. 



Cyclopterus lumpus, L. 



? Cotylis, sp. 



Lepadogaster gouanii. La Cepede. 



1 Based on "Eereegoodee Tenkoo, Russel ind., t. 9." 



^ Based on "Temeree Russ. ind., t. 1." 



^ Based on "Nalla Temeree, Russ. ind., t. 2." 



* Based on "Squale dentel^," La Cepede, i, 281 ; habitat unknown. 



^ "Pictus" is preoccupied. 



® Not identified by recent writers ; ^'marmoratus^^ is preoccupied. 



' Evidently a monstrosity. 



8 Based on Cyclopterus nudus Grael., Syst. Nat., 1475. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



309 



JfAMK. 



Balistes' liturosus, 

 Balistes sonneratii, 

 Balistes bicolor, . pi. 

 Balistes virescens, 

 Balistes fasciatus, . 

 Balistes unimaculatus, . 

 Balistes cinereus, . ' . 

 Balistes signatus, . 

 Balistes capistratus, 

 Ostracion auritus, pi. 

 Ostraciou striatus, . 

 Diodon- liturosus, . 

 Cephalus bievis, . pi. 

 Cephalus varius, 

 Cephalus pallasianus, • 

 Syngnathus foliatus, pi. 



Pegasus draco, 



pi. 182, 46^ 



IDENTIFICATION. 



^lonacanthus, sp. 

 Balistes bursa, Bl. & Scli. 

 Balistes conspicillum, Bl. & Sch. 

 Balistes viridesceus, Bl. & Sch. 

 Balistes rectangulus, Bl. & Sch. 

 Balistes verrucosus, Bl. & Sch. 

 Balistes cinereus, Bonnat. 

 Balistes fuscus, Bl. & Sch. 

 Balistes capistratus, Shaw. 

 Aracana aurita (Shaw), Giinther. 

 Aracaua aurita (Shaw), Giinther. 

 Diodon liturosus, Shaw. 

 Orthagoriscus mola (L.), Bl. Sch. 

 Ranzania truncata (Retz), Nardo. 

 Orthagoriscus mola (L.), Bl. Sch. 

 Phyllopteryx foliatus (Shaw), 



Swainson. 

 Pegasus dracouis, Linnaeus. 



' Not identified by recent writers. " Native of the Indian seas 

 about the coasts of Otaheitee by Captain G. Tobin." (Shaw.) 

 " Bdsed on Diodon tachete La C6pede, ii, 13. 



observed 




310 proceedings of the academy of [1882. 



December 26, 1882. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Seventy' -nine persons present. 



Irregularities of the Dental Arch, etc. — Dr. Harrisox Allen 

 called attention to the irregularity of the front and lateral curves 

 forming the dental arch, and to some points in connection with 

 the- hard palate. He defined the curve of the teeth placed in 

 the front of the jaw and answering to the premaxillse, and those 

 placed at the sides, the latter, pertaining to the maxillaB, having 

 been found b}' him to be in the jaws of civilized whites always 

 asymmetrical. 



The folds (ruga?) of the hard palate are subject to much vari- 

 ation. In the human fa?tus of five centimetres in length, they are 

 regular, six in number, and arranged across the palate as in 

 certain of the lower animals. At birth they have already become 

 irregular, but as to how far such irregularit}' might exist without 

 indicating deformity, he believed no data had been collected. The 

 names canine, first intermediate, first bicuspid, second inter- 

 mediate, second bicuspid, etc., were proposed for these rugie. 

 They are further arranged not infrequently in a median and a 

 lateral set, an arrangement which is strikingly exhibited in some 

 Quadrumana. When this arrangement appears in the human 

 subject it may be accepted as an instance of reversion. 



It was thought that a study of these rugae, since they have 

 systemic value in Cheiroptera, Insectivora and Quadrumana, 

 might be undertaken in connection with other anthropological 

 data. A series of plaster impressions of the dental arches and 

 ruga? of young and adult heads of the different races, would be 

 found of interest in this connection. 



The disposition of the form of the wisdom-tooth to occasionally 

 simulate the form of the premolar was commented upon. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed ; — 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA., 



PL. Hi 



\ \ 



10 



11 



12 



LEWIS ON ENCLOSURES IN MUSCOVITE 




1882,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



SOME ENCLOSURES IN MUSCOVITE. 

 BY H. CARVILL LEWIS, 



In order to gain an insight into the method of occurrence of the 

 cr3-stals of biotite enclosed in muscovite, examples of which occur 

 in several localities, the writer prepared, some seven years ago, a 

 series of cleavage plates taken from a single cr^'Stal of muscovite 

 and biotite. These sections, arranged in order consecutively from 

 the base of the crystal upwards, are now delineated upon the 

 accompanying plate, and exhibit several features of interest. The 

 specimen figured is one of a number found at an opening in 

 partially decomposed felspathic gneiss on Baltimore avenue, 

 West Philadelphia. The decomposition which, due to exposure 

 to atmospheric agencies, has more or less attacked all the minerals 

 at this place, has either partially or completely altered the enclosed 

 biotite into a hydrous exfoliating mineral, which, bearing the same 

 relation to unaltered biotite as margarodite does to muscovite,^ 

 may be known as hj^dro-biotite,^ The unaltered biotite is black, 

 the h3'dro-biotite brown — both substances generall^'^ appearing in 

 the same crystal. 



The enclosed crystals of biotite have frequently well-defined 

 edges, and contrast sharply with the surrounding white muscovite. 



It is of interest to observe that, so far as noticed, the cr^stallo- 

 graphic axes of both museoA'ite and biotite are parallel, and their 

 prismatic planes symmetrical. Where, owing to the imperfect 

 development of the enclosing muscovite, this relation is not 

 immediately perceptible, it may be rendered evident by producing 

 in each substance a strike figure {achlag figur), by mechanical 

 means. If a sharp-pointed steel rod is held lightly upon a thin 

 piece of mica, and the rod is then struck quickl}' with a hammer, 

 a hole is produced in the mica, from which radiate lines of cleavage 

 in three directions. As Reusch has shown ,^ the cleavage in biotite 

 (hexagonal) is parallel to the sides of the hexagon, while in 



» V. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc, Phila,, 1880. p. 319, 



- Margarodite being merely a hydrated muscovite, similar to it in all 

 optical and physical characters, except such of the latter as are due to 

 alteration, should properly be called hydro-muscomte. 



3 Monatsb, d. Konigl. Acad., Berlin, 1868, p. 428 ; 1869, p. 84. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



muscovite (orthorhombic ) two of the cleavage lines are parallel to 

 the sides of the rhomb, and the third parallel to the shorter lateral 

 axis (brachydiagonal). The two micas have, therefore, similar 

 strike figures, the lines of one being parallel to those of the other. 

 In each strike figure the lines cross each other at angles of 

 60°. If now a strike figure is produced close to the dividing line 

 between the two micas, it will be seen that if the biotite is unaltered 

 the cleavage lines run continuously from the one into the other 

 without change of direction — a proof that the crystallographic 

 planes of the two micas also have the same direction. This fact 

 has already been shown by Gustav Rose' in a specimen of biotite 

 in muscovite from Alstead, N. H. 



Since, therefore, the two micas have symmetrically arranged 

 prismatic planes, it is probable that they have been crystallized 

 together out of the same solution. 



A close examination of the accompanj-ing plate, exhibiting a 

 continuous vertical section of the crystal, shows that while the 

 edges of both crystals remain parallel in successive plates, the 

 substance of the biotite is gradually- absorbed or eaten away, and 

 replaced bj' the encroaching muscovite as the summit of the biotite 

 crystal is approached. In fig. I the nearly perfect black crystal 

 of biotite is seen to occupy a large space within the muscovite. 

 Fig. 2 shows a small patch of white muscovite within the black 

 crystal, while in figs. .3 and 4 this small patch is seen to become 

 larger and the biotite to diminish in quantity. As the muscovite 

 increases, the biotite diminishes. In fig. 7 the biotite is confined 

 to one corner of the crystal. It still decreases until in fig. 1 1 only 

 a minute speck of biotite remains; and finall}-^ in fig. 12 the 

 muscovite has usurped the whole field. The biotite is apparentW 

 being eaten awa}^ b}^ the muscovite. Both formed at once, the 

 biotite, the more unstable of the two species, has giA'en way to the 

 more hardy muscovite. 



Of very different character are the occasional superficial 

 markings of magnetite, which occur upon plates of muscovite 

 from the same locality. These markings, sometimes known as 

 " reticulated magnetite," are most abundant and ma}^ best be 

 studied in the muscovite of Southern Chester and Delaware 

 Counties in Penna., and of Brandywine Hundred, Delaware. 



> Monatsb. d. Konigl. Acad. d. Wiss., Berlin, 18G9, p. 339. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



These well-known and often very beautifnl markings form a 

 series of branching lines, which run in three directions across the 

 plates of mica, sometimes resembling the frost figures upon a 

 window pane. The lines of the figures cross each other at fixed 

 angles of 60°, and from their similarity to crystalline forms, have 

 been hitherto regarded by mineralogists as the result of repeated 

 twinning around a dodeeahedral axis,^ and have been correlated 

 with the dendritic crystallizations of native gold and copper.^ As 

 shown, however, by the writer in 1877,^ these markings always bear 

 a fixed relation to the crystallographic axes of the muscovite, and 

 are not due to an inherent property of the magnetite. 



If a crystal of muscovite enclosing reticulated magnetite be dis- 

 sected into a series of successive cleavage plates, it will be found 

 that the markings throughout are confined to similar portions of 

 the crystal and that the three directions of the lines are maintained 

 at the same angle throughout the whole crystal. Some common 

 cause has produced the parallelism of the lines in successive plates. 

 On the other hand, it will be seen that there is no direct connec- 

 tion between any one cleavage plate and that next above or below 

 it. One plate may be covered with markings, and the next plate 

 entirely free from them, while the third plate will be again covered 

 with markings, which, quite unlike the first plate in appearance 

 and arrangement, yet form the same angles with the exterior of the 

 crystal. Unlike the enclosed crystals of biotite, which penetrate 

 the muscovite through successive plates, the reticulated magnetite 

 is superficial, and rests upon the separate plates of muscovite in 

 disconnected dendritic patches. The following drawing represents 

 four successive plates of muscovite with reticulated magnetite, 

 and shows the independence yet correlation of these markings. 

 Lamina No. 2, which lay immediately below No. 1, is almost free 

 from markings, while Nos. 3 and 4, cleft from the lower side of 

 No. 2, show that the arrangement of the marking's is entirely 

 different on each lamina, although they maintain the same direction 

 on all four. The strike figure, common to all four laminae, is 

 shown in the centre of the drawing. The specimen figured was 

 obtained in Delaware, near the Pennsylvania line. 



' J. D. Dana, System of Mineralogy, p. 150. 



' E. S Dana, Text book of Mineralogy, p. 93. 



^ Proc. Min. and Geol. Section, Acad. Nat. Sc, June 25, 1877. 




314 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



Although always resting upon the plates of mica as very thin 

 dendrites, the magnetite has not been derived from any external 

 source, but evidently from the muscovite itself. The markings 

 do not occur along lines of cracks or near the edges of the crystal, 

 but lie in regular groups in the interior. They are not dendrites 

 in the sense of being the result of an}' infiltration, and the term 

 " dendrite " should therefore not be applied to them. They are true 



"enclosures" which, like the enclosures of pyrite in calcite, or the 

 impurities in chiastolite, are arranged with reference to the s^-m- 

 metry of the enclosing crystal. 



This fact is rendered even more evident when the direction of 

 the lines of the markings is' compared with the " strike figures " 

 produced artificially upon the muscovite. The writer has found 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 315 



that in all cases the markings are parallel with the lines of the 

 strike figures. In the drawing given above, the strike figure is 

 inserted between the figures of the muscovite, and this parallelism 

 of direction is c]earl3'^seen. 



It is thus interesting to find that a blow given with a sharp 

 instrument was necessary to bring out lines which were previously 

 recognized and followed by the more sensitive magnetite in its 

 growth. Just as beryls and tourmalines and quartz crystals are 

 flattened and garnets are laminated bj^ the enclosing mica, so the 

 magnetite is influenced to follow the crystallogi'aphic lines of the 

 parent mineral. Such forms might well be designated allomorphic. 

 The weaker mineral is compelled into another habit by the 

 stronger one. 



It should be mentioned that occasionally the magnetite follows 

 lines of the natural cleavage of the muscovite, such lines being at 

 right-angles to the lines produced in the strike figure. Fig. 1, in 

 the preceding cut, shows these secondary lines in addition to the 

 more prominent lines which are parallel to the strike figure. 



In conclusion, then, it appears that both biotite and magnetite, 

 when enclosed in muscovite, conform in their directions to the 

 crystallograi^hic planes of the latter ; and that while biotite pene- 

 trates through successive plates of the muscovite, and is frequently 

 altered into it, magnetite, on the other hand, is purely superficial 

 and forms different markings upon each lamina of mica. 



21 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



ON THE VALUE OF THE " NEARCTIC " AS ONE OF THE PRIMARY 

 ZOOLOGICAL REGIONS. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIX, 



The six zoological regions^ laid down by Mr. Sclater, and so 

 admirably sketched out by Mr. Wallace, have been so very 

 generall}- accepted b}' naturalists that it maj^ be considered as 

 almost presumptuous for any one to attempt at this late hour a 

 revision of the same. But yet the evidence concerning the 

 position of at least one of these — the Xearctic — is in many 

 respects so negative — indeed, it might be said so directly contra- 

 dictory — that a reconsideration is rendered almost imperative. 

 The question affecting the relationship of this region is thus stated 

 by Walhice : *' Whether the Nearctic region should be kept 

 separate, or whether it should form part of the Pabearctic or of 

 the Neotropical regions. Professor Huxley and Mr. Blj^th advocate 

 the former course ; Mr. Andrew Murray (for mammalia) and 

 Professor Newton (for birds) think the latter would be more 

 natural. No doubt much is to be said for both views, but both 

 cannot be right ; and it will be shown in the latter part of this 

 chapter that the Nearctic region is, on the whole, fully as well 

 defined as the Paloearctic, by positive characters which differentiate 

 it from both the adjacent regions. "^ 



1 Palsearctic, Ethiopian, Indian (Oriental of Wallace), Australian, 

 Nearctic, and Neotropical ( Austro-Colurabian of Huxley). 



2 Geographical Distribution of Animals, vol. 1, p. 66, 1876. Professor 

 Newton, in the article "Birds," contained in the Encyclopedia Britannica 

 (9th td., iii, p. 751, 18751, thus expresses his views in the present connec- 

 tion : "Thus, regarded simply from an ornithologist's point of view, what 

 we call the Nearctic 'region,' seems to have no right to be considered one 

 of the primary regions of the earth's surface, and to be of less import- 

 ance than some of the subregions of the Neotropical region. * * * 

 It is not, however, intended here to question the validity of the Nearctic 

 region in a zodgeographical sense. If that position could be success- 

 fully disputed, it mutrt be done on more than ornithological grounds, 

 and a consideration of them would be out of place in this article. It is 

 enou"-h to mention that though the mammals would possibly lead to much 

 the same conclusion as the birds do, yet the lower classes of vertebrates — 

 reptiles, amphibians and fishes - would most likely have a contrary tendency, 

 wliile the present writer is quite unable to guess at the result which would 

 be atiorded by the invertebrates." 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 317 



In view of the very divergent positions occupied by the natural- 

 ists above cited as to the value of the region here referred to, it 

 ma^' be fairl}- conceded, we believe, and Avith due deference to the 

 high authority of Mr. Wallace, that the question of position or 

 relationship is still an open one ; and the more especially can this 

 be considered to be the case, since several of the authors do not 

 appear to be agreed even as to the general (or ijreponderating) 

 relationship of the contained mammalian fauna, or that branch of 

 the representative fauna which is usually taken to be most charac- 

 teristic (typical) of a region.^ 



In the hope, therefore, of throwing some additional light on this 

 subject the author has been constrained to make the following 

 critical inquirj'. The points which it has been attempted to solve 

 are : — 



1. Whether the Nearctic region is entitled to be considered as 

 an independent region by itself. 



2. If not, of which region, Paltearctic or Neotropical, does it 

 constitute a part. 



The relative relationship of the Nearctic fauna with the faunas 

 of the Paloearctic and Neotropical regions constitutes the first 

 portion of the inquirj-.^ 



The Nearctic mammalian fauna comprises, according to Wallace, 

 about 26 families, as follows : 



Phj^llostomidae, Suidae, 



Yespertilionidse, Cervidae, 



Noctilionidse, Bovidse, 



Talpidge, Muridaj, 



Soricidse, Dipodidtp, 



Felidae, Saccomyidte, 



^ Wallace, op. cit., 1, p. 57. 



^ In the following analyses of mammalian families, genera and species, 

 the author has followed the tables furnished by Wallace in his "Geograph- 

 ical Distribution of Animals," and for two reasons : 1st, The circumstance 

 that these tables have served as the basis for Mr. Wallace's own conclusions, 

 et conseq. as the guiding data for those authors who have accepted the views 

 of this naturalist ; and 2d, The difficulty of constructing new tables, which 

 in their application to all the various zoogeographical regions, could claim 

 a decided advantage over those that are here furnished. For the North 

 American fauna a reconsideration based upon the more recent works of 

 Coues and Allen, where the number of species is very materially reduced, 

 is given later on. 




318 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1882. 



Canidse, 



Mustelidse, 



Procyonidge, 



Ursidai, 



Otariidge, 



Trichechidffi, 



Phocidai, 



Castoridae, 



Sciuridse, 



Haploodontidse, 



Cercolabidae, 



Lagomyidse, 



Leporidffi, 



Didelphyidse. 



Of this number onl}^ one family — the Haploodontidee — com- 

 prising one or two species of beaver-like animals inhabiting the 

 west coast, can be said to be strictly peculiar to the region.^ Of 

 the 25 non-peculiar families, 19 are also Palsearctic, and of the 

 remaining 6, 5 are exclusivel}^ Nearctic and Neotropical and 1 

 (Noctilionidee, or short-eared bats) is found in the eastern hemi- 

 sphere. 



Comparing the Nearctic with the Neotropical fauna, we 

 find that out of the 25 non-peculiar families 18 are also 

 Neotropical, so that the relationship between the Palaearctic 

 and the Nearctic on one side, and the Nearctic and Neotrop- 

 ical on the other, would appear to be equally great. But if 

 we take the genera included in these 26 families {^i in all^) 



' The Saccomyidoi, or pouched rats, which are also regarded as peculiar 

 to the Nearctic region by Wallace, cau scarcely be considered such, since 

 a fair proportion of the species {Heteromys, 6 sp. ? ; Oeomys [ Geomyidm of 

 some authors]) penetrate to a considerable distance within the Neotropical 

 region. The family is more properly characteristic than peculiar. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



319 



we find that 35 are also Palaearctic/ and onlj' 21 Neotrop- 



In Wallace's table of the Palaearctic fauna, Thalassarctos, the polar 

 bear, is considered as a distinct genus apart from Urstis. The Nearctic 



Ursidm would accordingly be Ursus, 2 species, and Thalassarctos, 1 species. 



^ Vespertilio, Halichoeiois, 



Urotrichus, Cystophora, 



Sorex, Alces, 



Felis, Rangifer, 



Lynx, Cervus, 



Lupus, Bison, 



Vulpes, Capra, 




320 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



ical,^ Of these 21, moreover, 6 belong to the volant mammalia 

 — the bats — a class of animals possessing special means for self- 

 distribution. 



It will thus be seen that generically the North American mam- 

 malian fauna is much more intimately related to the Eur-Asiatic 

 than to the South American. 



Furthermore, of the 35 genera also occurring in the Paleearctic 

 region, 21 are found nowhere else but in that region — in other 

 words, 21 out of 74 genera are peculiar to the combined Nearctic 

 and Patearctic regions.- On the contrary, of the 21 Neotropical 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



genera occurring in the Nearctic fauna, only 11 are exclusively 

 Neotropical. In other words, only 11 out of 14 genera are pecu- 

 liar to the combined Nearctic and Neotropical regions. ^ Again, 

 the 21 Nearetic-Palsearctic genera are represented by about 69 

 specific forms, whereas the 11 Nearctic-Neotropical genera have 

 only about 39 specific representatives. So that, whichever way 

 considered, there is a great preponderance of Palasarctic, as com- 

 pared to Neotropical, forms in the Nearctic fauna. As far as 

 the evidence afforded by the mammalia is concerned, therefore, 

 there is a much closer relationship shown to exist between the 

 North American (Nearctic) and Eur-Asiatic (Pala-arctic) faunas 

 than between the former and the South American (Neotropical). 



It is thus manifest, that if the Nearctic fauna is not a distinct 

 one, it should be united — if judged by its mammalian fauna alone — 

 with the Palffiarctic rather than with the Neotropical. But the 

 question still remains, is it a distinct fauna, or is it only a lateral 

 extension of the Palaearctic ? 



It has already been stated that the region possesses among 26 

 families of mammalia only one that is strictly peculiar to it — the 

 Haploodontidae. 



The Neotropical, on the other hand, has out of about 31 families, 

 8 that are peculiar.^ 



The Australian, of 22, likewise 8.^ 



The Ethiopian, out of 44, 9 that are peculiar.* 



The only other regions that can compare with the Nearctic in 

 the paucity of their peculiar families are the Pali\?arctic and the 

 Oriental, the former represented b}^ 36 families, with not a single 

 one peculiar, and the latter likewise with 36 families, of which 



* ilacrotus, Dicotyles, 



Lasivirus, Reithrodon, 



Enhydris, Hesperomys, 



Mephitis, Fiber, 



Procyon, Didelphys. 

 Bassaris, 



* Cebidm, Hapalidce, Phyllostomidm (one species in California), ChincJiil- 

 lidce, Caviidce, Bradypodidce, Dasypodidce, Myrmecophagidm. 



' Daayurida, Myrmecobud(.e, PerameUdm, Macropodidc^, Phalangistidw, 

 Phascolomydie, Ornithorhynchidce, Echidnidm. 



* Cheiromyidxs, Centetida, Potamogalidm, Chrysoehloridm, Cryptoproctuia, 

 ProtelidcB, Hippopoiamida:. CamelopardidcB, Orycteropodidm. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



number only 3 are peculiar.^ But the paucity of peculiar families 

 in the case of the Palsearctic and Oriental regions is readil}^ ex- 

 plained by the circumstance that both regions are bounded along 

 the line of their greatest development by other faunal regions, 

 with which an exchange in forms will naturally be effected. Thus 

 the Palasarctic region is bounded along an extent of about 140 

 degrees of longitude, or about 9000 miles, by the Ethiopian and 

 Oriental regions. The proportions of bounding surface to area 

 is perhaps still greater in the case of the Oriental region. But in 

 the case of the Nearctic region (as recognized) we have no such 

 bounding surface — in fact we are here limited for our exchanges 

 to the narrow strip (Mexico, Central America) uniting the two 

 great continents — and, therefore, on the assumption of a distinct 

 fauna it would be doubly difficult to assign a special explanation 

 for the very limited number of peculiar families. 



While the Nearctic and Palsearctic regions are each deficient 

 in peculiar mammalian families, yet they are eminently distin- 

 guished from their nearest faunal neighbors by certain highly 

 characteristic families, which are only rendered ?ion-peculiar by 

 the circumstance that they are contained in both regions. Such 

 are the 



1. Talpidae, Moles. 



2. Trichechidffi, . . . . . Walruses, 



3. Castoridfe, Beavers, 



4. Lagomyidae, Pikas. 



And if the reindeer, elks, and sheep (and goats) be considered 

 as constituting distinct families, as is maintained by many natur- 

 alists, the 



5. Rangiferidie, 



6. Alcadae, 

 t. Capridee, 



In addition to these 1 families we have also the hares (Leporidse) 

 and bears (Ursidse), which, though not exclusively restricted to 

 those regions, are by their numbers and vast distribution emi- 

 nently characteristic of them. 



Considering the PaljBarctic and Nearctic regions to constitute 

 but a single faunal division, that division would then be eminently'' 

 characterized by the possession of these t-9 peculiar families 



^ TarsiidcB, OaleopitJiecidce, Tupaiidce. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



alone, and would then stand in nearly the same relation by family 

 distinctions to the other regions as the Xeotropical, Ethiopian, and 

 Australian. The combined Nearctic and Pahearctic regions would, 

 moreover, be further united to each other by the negative char- 

 acter afforded in the almost total absence of the Quadrnmana^ 

 and Edentata, orders which are abundantly represented in all the 

 other regions but the Australian. 



If now we turn to an examination of the genera peculiar to the 

 several zodgeographical regions, we find that out of a total of 74 

 represented in the Nearctic, onl}'^ about 26 are restricted to that 

 region, forming 35 per cent. 



In the Palfearctic, out of 100 — 35 peculiar = 35 per cent. 



In the Oriental, out of 118 — 54 peculiar = 46 per cent. 



In the Australian, out of 70 — 45 peculiar = 64 per cent. 



In the Ethiopian, out of 142 — 90 peculiar = 63 per cent. 



In the Neotropical, out of 131 — 103 peculiar = 78 per cent. 



We here again note a deficienc}' in the case of the Nearctic and 

 Palaearctic regions — an absence of positive distinguishing charac- 

 ters — a condition to be explained by the fact that a very considerable 

 number of genera are rendered non-peculiar (just as in the case of 

 the families) by the circumstance of their being represented in 

 both the Nearctic and Pahearctic regions. But if we consider the 

 two regions as forming in reality but one, we would have in addition 

 to the 26 Nearctic and the 35 Palaearctic genera already referred 

 to, 22 additional ones to be comprised in the regions as being" 

 peculiar to it, viz. : — 



Represented by 

 Genera. Pa! 



TJrotrichus, .... 

 Lyncus, .... 



Gulo, 



Thalassarctos, 



Zalophus, .... 



Eumatopias, .... 



1 About 5 species of Quadrumana, representatives of the genera Macacus 

 and SemnopitJieciis, enter within the confiues of Palajarctic regions. The 

 highest latitude in the northern hemisphere reached by this class of animals 

 is probably the Rock of Gibraltar (Lat. 36^), inhabited by the Bai-bary 

 ape {Mticacus imius); the genus is also represented in Japan. Three or 

 four species of Quadrumana (Macacus, Cynopithecus) likewise occur in the 

 islands Timor, Batchian, and Celebes, belonging to the Australian region. 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



Genera. 



Trichechus, . 



Callocephalus, 



Pagomys, 



Pagophilus, 



Phoca, . 



Halichoerus, 



Cystopliora, 



Alces, . 



Taraudus, 



Bison, . 



Cuniculus, 



Myodes, 



Castor, . 



Spermophilus, 



Arctomj's, 



Lagomys, 



57 



45 



To which may also be added Capra (with 10 Palaearctic species), 

 Ovis (with 10 Palsearctic and 1 Nearctic species), and Arvicola 

 (with 21 Palaearctic and 27 Nearctic species), genera whose repre- 

 sentatives but barelj' pass beyond the confines of the region — 

 making 25 in all. We would thus have a total of about 86 peculiar 

 genera out of 173 represented, a proportion that would stand 

 intermediate between what we find to exist in the Oriental and 

 Australian regions, and which would constitute about 50 per cent. 

 The region would be accordingl}- eminentl}- marked out b}' positive 

 generic characters. 



Turning now to a consideration of the species which represent 

 the peculiar genera of each region — in other words, to the repre- 

 sentative forms of the various faunas — we find that in the Nearctic 

 region, as at present constituted, out of a total of about 279 

 species, the 26 peculiar genera comprise but 60, or only 2H per 

 cent, of the entire fauna. 



In the PaliBarctic, of 426 species, the 35 peculiar genera comprise 

 71 = 17 per cent. 



In the Oriental, of 505 species, the 54 peculiar genera comprise 

 165 =33 per cent. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



In the Australian, of 243 species, the 45 peculiar genera com- 

 prise 151 =62 per cent. 



In the Ethiopian, of 525 species, the 90 peculiar genera comprise 

 288 = 55 per cent. 



In the Neotropical, of 634 species, the 103 peculiar genera 

 comprise 376 = 60 per cent. 



So here, again, just as in the case of families and genera, the 

 Nearctic and Paltearctic regions show a very decided deficiency, 

 the specific types that ought to characterize a fauna being but 

 xevy feebly developed. But if we unite the two regions, the 

 negative character is developed into a positive one by the incor- 

 poration of a considerable number of species representing the 

 25 genera, which are held in common by the two regions. The 

 number of species held b}- the Nearctic region has been stated to 



be about 279 



And of the Palsearctic, 426 



705 

 Less 30 species (as will be seen further on) held in common, 30 



Total for the combined region, .... 675 



Of this total of 675 species for the combined region we have : — 



60 represented bj- the genera peculiar to the Nearctic region ; 

 71 represented by the genera peculiar to the Pala^arctic region ; 

 153 (171 — 18 common = 153) represented by the 25 peculiar 

 genera common to the two regions ; 



284 



or a proportion of species representing the peculiar genera of 

 284 : 675 (42 per cent.), a ratio sufficiently large to impress upon 

 the fauna a distinctive character. 



In our estimates of the Nearctic fauna we have relied upon the 

 tables furnished b}- "Wallace. If instead of these, however, we 

 avail ourselves of the later data furnished by the various papers 

 of Coues and Allen, the result will not be materially altered. 

 According to the lists furnished by these authorities it would 

 appear that the Nearctic mammalian fauna has, instead of 279 

 species, only about 210. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Two new families,^ and three new genera^ (of which one is 

 peculiar) are indicated. 



Out of a total of T5 genera, 27 are peculiar, which would give a 

 proportion (36 per cent.) very little different from that deduced 

 from Wallace's data. 



These 2t peculiar genera, again, are represented according to 

 Coues' table bj about 49 species, which, out of the total of 210, 

 would give 23 per cent, of the entire fauna, or 1^ per cent, over 

 that which was found in our first estimation. 



Again, uniting the Paliearctic and Xearctic regions with the 



new data, we find, instead of a total of 705 species, onlj- 636 



Deducting 30 species held in common, ... 30 



Total, 606 



Of this total of 606 species for the combined regions we have : 

 71 species represented by the genera peculiar to the Palaearctic 



region ; 

 49^ species represented by the genera peculiar to the Nearctic 

 region ; 

 132 species (150* — 18 = 132) represented b}- the 25 genera 

 peculiar to the two regions ; 



252 



or a proportion of species representing the peculiar genera of 

 252 : 606 = 42 per cent., or precisely the figure that was obtained 

 from Wallace's tables. 



The following species of North American mammalia are gen- 

 erally considered to be identical with Palaearctic forms, or, at any 

 rate, to have such close Eur-Asiatic representatives as to be but 

 doubtfully distinguishable from them : 



Evotomys (Arvicola) rutilus, Putorius erminea, 

 Myodes Obensis, ? Putorius vison, 



Cuniculus torquatus, Felis Canadensis, 



^ ZapodidcB, Geomyidce. 



2 Ochetodon (Hesperomys, pars), Evotomys {Arvicola, pars\ Criceiodipus 

 {Perognathus, pars). 



^ Instead of the 60 before recorded, correspondiug to the general reduc- 

 tion in the number of species. 



* 98 Palaearctic ; 53 Nearctic. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Lepus timidus, Canis occiden talis, 



Castor fiber, Yulpes vulgaris, 



Tamias Asiaticus, Ursus Americanus 



Spermophilus empetra, (et U. horribilis ?) 



?Arctom3's pruinosus, Phoca vitulina, 



? Urotrichiis Gibbsi, C^'stophora cristata, 



Cervus Canadensis, Callorhinus uvsiniis. 



Alee malchis, Zalopbus Gillespii, 



Tarandus rangifer, Triehecus rosmarus, 



Gulo luscus, Pagophilus Groenlandicus, 



? Mustela Americana, Halichoerus sp. 



Putorius vulgaris. 



And perhaps a little less certain, 

 Ovis montana. Bison Americanus. 



From the preceding facts it may be considered as shown, 1st, 

 that by family, generic and specific characters, as far as the mam- 

 malia are concerned, the Nearctic and Palaearctic faunas taken col- 

 lectively are more clearly defined from any or all of the other 

 regions than eithA* the Xearctic or Palsearctic taken individually ; 

 and 2d, that by the communit}' of family, generic, and specific 

 characters the Nearctic region is indisputably united to the Palae- 

 arctic, of which it only forms a lateral extension. 



Evidence Afforded by the Batrachia and Reptilia. 



If we now turn to the evidence afforded by the batrachians and 

 reptiles, we will find the conclusions drawn from the study of the 

 mammals to be strikingly confirmed.^ 



Batrachia Urodela. 



The following families are enumerated in the Xearctic fauna 

 (as usually recognized) : 



^ In the following zoogeographical considerations the "Sonoran" sub- 

 region of Prof. Cope, including " parts of Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona, 

 and Sonora in ^Mexico" (Bulletin U. S. National Museum, i, p. 68, 1875), 

 is taken to represent a portion of the Neotropical region, and for reasons 

 that will be stated further on. To this section detached from the Ne- 

 arctic region will probably have to be added the peninsula of Lower 

 California (the " Lower Californian" subregion of Cope), and portions of 

 California and Texas. 




328 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[188^ 



Peculiar to the Nearctic. 



Palaeaictic. 



Peculiar to the Nearctic. 



Palsearctic. 



Palsearctic. 



Sirenidse, .... 



Siren, 1 species. 

 Pseudobranchus, 1 sp. 

 Proteidae, .... 



Menobranchus, 2 sp. 

 [Palsearctic, Proteus.^ 

 Amphiumidae, 



Amphiuma, 1 sp. 

 Muraenopsis, 1 sp. 

 Menopomidse, 



Menopoma, 2 sp. 

 [Palsearctic, Sieboldia.'] 

 Ambl^^stomidje, . 

 Ambl3"stoma.^ 

 Dicamptodon, 1 sp. 



[Palsearctic, Onichodactylus^ Ranodon.'] 

 PlethodoBtidse, . . . Neotropical, . . Palsearctic. 

 7-8 genera, with about 22 species. The genus Spe- 

 lerjyes, with about 8 species, descends beyond the 

 Nearctic boundary into northern South America ; 

 it is also represented by a solitary species in 

 southern Europe. 

 Desmognathidae, .... Peculiar to the Nearctic. 



Desmognathus, 3 sp. 

 Pleurodelidae, ....... Palaearctic. 



Diemictj'lus, 2 sp. 

 We have here, therefore, 8 families represented, 5 of which are 

 also Palaearctic, and only one Neotropical. The 3 families 

 restricted to the Nearctic region are represented by onl}^ 7 species. 

 If it be urged that the presence of these 3 peculiar, but very 

 narrowly circumscribed families is sufficient to characterize the 

 region in which they occur, and consequently to render it distinct, 

 it may, for similar reasons, and with almost equal force, be urged 

 that the eastern extremity of the Eur-Asiatic region — China, 

 Japan — should be detached from the I'est of the Palaearctic by 

 virtue of its containing representatives of two equall}' characteristic 

 families, the Menopomidae and Amblystomidae, found nowhere else 

 in the region. 



^ About 18 species, all of which, with one or two exceptions, are found 

 outside of the Sonoran subre<jion. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



Batraohia Anoura. 



Bufonidae, Nearly cosmopolitan. 



Bufo. 

 Engystomidje, . . . Tropical, Old and New World. 



Engystoma, 1 species. 

 Hylidffi, . . Essentiall}^ tropical, Old and New World. . 



Acris, 1 sp. 



Chorophilus, 4 sp. 



Hyla, about 12 species, several of which occur in the 

 Souoran region or along the Neotropical boundary. 

 Scaphiopidae, Patearctic. 



Spea. 



Scapliiopus. 

 CystignathidiB, . . . Neotropical, . . Australian. 



2 species, both in the Sonoran subregion. 

 Ranidfe, Essentially Old World. 



Rana, 8 sp. 



The above data will show that the anourous or tailless 

 batrachians scarcely afford any positive indications as to the 

 zoogeographical position of the region in which they occur. Yet 

 in several respects there is a very decided leaning toward the 

 Palffiarctic. Thus it agrees with the Pala?arctic in the paucity of 

 its Bufonic element, the genus Bufo, which comprises about 80 

 species, having only about 4-5 Nearctic specific representatives 

 (if we exclude the 6-7 species found in the Sonoran districts), and 

 about an equal number in the Palrearctic region. 



Again, in the case of the Ranidse^ an eminently Old World 

 family of batrachians, we have, just as in the Palsearctic region, 

 only one generic i-epresentative — Rana — which, with about 5-6 

 species, but barely penetrates within the Neotropical region. Of 

 about 108 species comprised by the genus, 8-9 belong to the 

 Nearctic fauna, and about an equal number, 10-11, to the Palse- 

 arctic' In addition to this general similarity existing between 

 the Nearctic and Palsearctic faunas as exemplified by the Ranidae, 

 we have the further one that at least one species of the genus 

 Rana^ is common to both regions ; and another Palsearctic species 



' Boulenger, *' Catalogue of the Batrachia Salientia" of the British 

 Museum, 2d ed., 1883. 



* Rana temporaria ( R. sylvatica) . 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



has a closely related Xearctic representative.^ On the other hand, 

 in the peculiarly Neotropical or tropical (in general) groups of 

 anourous batrachians the Xearctic province is remarkably 

 deficient. Thus of the Engystomidee we have but a solitary 

 representative, Engyatoma Carolinense. Of the Cystignathidae, 

 which comprises upwards of 130 Neotropical forms, we have only 

 two- Xearctic species, and both of these are found just bej^ond 

 the confines of the region — southern Florida and along the lower 

 Rio Grande. There is a somewhat greater development of the 

 genus Hyla of the Hylidse than might have been looked for, but 

 the genus, while it may have but one really good species, is at least 

 represented b}' several ver}' well marked varieties (variouslj^ con- 

 sidered to be distinct species) also in the PaliBarctic region. 



Ophidia, 



The Xearctic serpents are comprised in 4 or 5 families — Crnta- 

 lidse (with about 19 species), Golubridae, Elapidae, Boidff, and 

 Lichanuridse. The first of these being an essentially American 

 and Oriental (!) group (a few species penetrating within the 

 Palcijarctic region), can scarcely carry much weight in the matter 

 of zoogeographical classification. The Elapidse and Boidse (with 

 3 and 2 species respectively^) are tropicopolitan, and their Xorth 

 American representatives but barely enter the Xearctic region. 

 The two species of the genus Charina {Boidse) are moreover found 

 in that section of the United States — I^evada and Lower California 

 — which in our estimation ought to be separated from the Xearctic 

 region. This is likewise the case with the 3 species of Lichanura 

 (Lower California), which constitute the family Lichanuridae. 

 The onl)' and most important family that remains to be specially 

 considered is that of the Coluhridae. Of this cosmopolitan family 

 we have about 107 Xearctic species ; of this number about 30 

 belong to genera almost exclusiveh' restricted to the Sonoran and 

 Californian regicms. Of the remaining 77, a very large proportion 

 (more tlian one-half) belong to essentially Old Wo7dd genera — 

 Coluher, Tropidonotus {Eutaenia)^ and Coryphodon (Bascanion) 

 — and principally to such as have no South American representa- 

 tives, as Coluber and Tropidonotus,^ 



^ Rana esculenta in R. halecina. 



* Lithodytes Ricordii and Epirhexis longipea. 



^ The range of Tropidonotus extends to Guatemala. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Lacertilia. 



The following are tlie lacertilian families occurring in the 

 Nearctic region (as recognized^ : — 



Amphisbaenidje, .... Almost cosmopolitan. 



1 species in the Floi'ida subregion. 



AnnioUidse, .... Peculiar to the Nearctic ? 

 1 sp. in California. 



Scincicl£E, Cosmopolitan. 



14 species, 13 of which belong to the Old World 

 genus Eumeces (or Plesliodon). 



? Lacertidae, Old World. 



Xantusia, 1 sp. on the Pacific coast. 



Zonuridoe (Anguidse, jyars), .... Old World. 

 Opheosaurus, 1 sp. 



Teidse, Essentially Neotropical. 



A South American family of about 12 genex*a and 

 To species, represented in the Nearctic region by 

 7 species, all of which, with one or two exceptions, 

 are confined to the Sonoran and Californian 

 provinces. 



Gerrhonotidffi, Neotropical. 



Y sp., confined to the Sonoran, Californian and 

 Pacific subregions, and Western Texas. 



Helodermidffi. 



1 sp., confined to the Sonoran subregion. 



Iguanidse, Neotropical. 



An essentially Neotropical family, with about 50 

 genera and 150 species. Represented in the 

 Nearctic region by about 40 species, all of which, 

 with two or three exceptions, are confined to the 

 Sonoran and Californian regions, or but just pass 

 beyond the limits of these. 



Anolidae, , . Neotropical. 



An essentially Neotropical familj^, with upwards of 

 70 species, and with onl}^ 1 or 2 Nearctic represen- 

 tatives. 

 S2 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Geckoticlffi, Essentially tropical. 



But sparing!}- represented in eitlier the Palaearctic 

 or Xearctic regions ; the 5 Nearctic species being 

 all restricted to the Sonoran and Lower Califor- 

 nian subregions, and the extremity of the peninsula 

 of Florida. 



An analysis of the above table shows two facts very distinctl}' : 



1. That the South American (Neotropical) forms of lacertilians — 

 Teidae, Iguanidae^ Anolidee — stop almost immediately on the 

 borders of the Xearctic region, sending but an extremely limited 

 number of representatives bej'ond the Sonoran subregion ; and 



2. The very great paucity of lacertilian forms in general throughout 

 the great mass of the North American continent. Excluding the 

 Sonoran and Californian provinces, and the immediate border-line 

 of the region, there would appear to be in all hut about 20 species 

 of Nearctic saurians, IS of which belong to the Old World genus 

 Eumeces! The most widely diffused form of North American 

 Eumeces, moreover, is a Palisarctic species !^ A further relation- 

 ship with the Palffiarctic fauna is maintained hy Opheosaurus, the 

 onl}^ New World representative of the " glass snakes." 



Chelonia. 



The special leaning of the Nearctic fauna to that of the Old 

 World is as clearly indicated by the chelonians as by any of the 

 other groups of animals that have thus far been considered. Of 

 the 7 non-marine families represented ,2 3 — Trionychidse, 3Ialaclem- 

 mydae, Cistudinidse — are distinctively Old World groups, and two 

 of the others, Emydidse and Testudinidae, are essentially so. One 

 family, the Cinosternidae^ is peculiar to the North American con- 

 tinent. The Chelydridae have one generic representative in the 

 Palaearctic region (China), \^ Platy sternum be considered (as by 

 Agassiz) to belong to that family.^ 



* Uumeces fasciatus. Japan. 



* TrionycMdcB, Chelydridce, Cinostcrnidm, Emydidoe, Malaclemmydce, 

 Cistudin idcB, TestudinidcB. 



^ Constituted the type of a distinct family, Platysternidm, by Gray (" Sup- 

 plement to the Catalogue of Shield Reptiles," p. 69, 1870). 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Faunal characters defining the Sonoran and Lower Californian 

 subr-egions of Prof. Cope as distinct from the Near otic region 

 projjer, and as a portion of the Neotropical. 



1. Of the 8 families of Nearctic (so-called) urodele batrachians, 

 only 2 are represented in this portion of the continent — Amblys- 

 tomidse and Plethodontidae — and each of these only by one or two 

 species. Out of a total of about 54 species, therefore, this region 

 has only about 3 ! 



2. More than one-half of all the Nearctic Bufonidse are found 

 in this region, " this being the headquarters of that genus [J5(</b] 

 in the Regnura Xearcticum."! Of about 20 Nearctic representa- 

 tives of the Hylidse we have here but 3 ; and likewise only one 

 or two of the Ranidee. The Sonoran and Lower Californian tail- 

 less batrachian fauna is thus shown to be distinct by both positive 

 and negative characters from that of the Nearctic in general. 



3. The serpent fauna comprises 22 genera, of which 10-11 are 

 peculiar} II out of the 13 species and subspecies of Nearctic 

 rattlesnake ( Crotalus) are found here, and 7 of these nowhere else. 

 Coluber is not represented. 



4. Of about 55 species of lacertilians, about 46 belong to the 

 Neotropical families Iguanidae, Teidx, and Gerrhonotidae., and 4 

 to the tropical Geckotidse. 11 out of the 20 genera represented 

 are not found in any other portion of the Nearctic realm, or, at 

 any rate, at no distantly removed part.^ 



5. Only 4-5 species of non-marine Testudinata are recorded,* 

 2 of which (Cinosterna) '"are of Mexican type." 



Conclusion. 



In conclusion it may be briefl3" stated that, by the community 

 of its mammalian, batrachian and reptilian characters, the Nearctic 

 fauna (excluding therefrom the local faunas of the Sonoran and 



' Cope, Bull. U. S. National Museum, i, p. 74, 1875. 



'^ Gyal'^piutn, Chionactis, Sonora, RhinocMlus, Chilopoma, Trimorphodon, 

 Hypsiglena, Phimothyra, Chilomeniscus, Lichanura, and Charina (one 

 species of the last passes into the adjoining "Pacific" subregion). 



^ Hcloderma, Sauromalus, Uma, Coleonyx, Verticaria, Diplodactylus, 

 Cyclura, Dipsosaurus, GalUsaurus, Uta, and Phyllodactylus. 



* Up to the time of the publication of Prof. Cope's " Check List," 1875. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Lower Californian snbregions, ivbieli are KeotropicaP) is shown 

 to be of a distinctive!}- Old World type, and to be indissolublj 

 linked to the Palaearctic (of which it forms only a lateral extension). 

 The Palsearctic (Old World) affinities are further maintained in 

 the land and fresh-water mollusca, and not onl}- bj' a considerable 

 number of representative (identical) specific tj-pes common to 

 both regions, circumpolar, subboreal, and otherwise, but by the 

 presence (and extensive development in most cases ) of the charac- 

 teristic genera Physa^ Planorbis, Limnaea, Paludina^ Vivipara^ 

 Valvata^ and Bythinella, forms not at all, or but very sparingly, 

 represented in the jSeotropical realm.^ The Lepidoptera among 

 insects carry equall}' strong evidence in this direction, for, as 

 Wallace justly remarks,^ while the Xearctic fauna embraces a 

 number of distinct types, and the Neotropical element is sufficiently 

 well represented in the southern United States, " still, we must 

 acknowledge, that if we formed our conclusions from the butterflies 

 alone, we could hardly separate the Nearetic from the Palaearctic 

 region."^ 



' It is very probable that portions of California, Texas, and Florida will 

 have to be relegated to the Neotropical realm. 



2 The very great development of the StrepomatidcB, or New World mela- 

 nians, in the waters of the Nearetic region, might be urged as a claim for 

 recognizing the independence of this region. But for this reason alone an 

 equal claim might be set up for considering the eastern and western United 

 States as constituting two distinct realms, since this group of mollusks is 

 pretty effectually limited in its distribution by the 3Iississippi River, none 

 or but very few of the fonns passing west of the river, except in the region 

 of its upper course. 



' Geog. Distr. of Animals, ii, p. 123. 



* It is proposed to designate the combined Nearetic (as restricted) and 

 Palgearctic regions as the Triarctic, from the limitation of its fauna to the 

 three continents bordering on the Arctic Sea. Under this acceptation the 

 Nearetic, as hitherto recognized, completely disappears, and the Sonorau 

 and Lower Californian subregions i to which must also be added parts of 

 California, Texas, and Florida) of the former Nearetic become a portion 

 of the Neotropical realm. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



THE GENESIS OF THE CRYSTALLINE IRON-ORES. 

 BY ALEXIS A. JULIEN. 



In an age which admits its special indebtedness for material 

 advancement to the industries connected with the manufacture of 

 iron, and in a countr}' in which these industries have been so 

 vastly developed as in this, the question of the origin of that 

 metal has long possessed, and must alwa^-s retain, a high degree 

 of interest. So far as relates to the limonites, turgites and bog- 

 ores, the question has met with a satisfactory' answer in the theory 

 of the concentration of these ores by the percolation of organic 

 acids, as fully presented in the writings of Bischoff, Hunt and 

 others ; especially as the process can be actually observed and 

 studied in progress in the lakes, marshes and bogs of the present 

 day. But the mode of genesis of the crj'staliine ores — hematites, 

 magnetites, raenaccanites, and their mixtures — enveloped partly 

 in the sedimentary strata and chieflv in the still more ancient 

 crystalline rocks of archsean age, can be only inferred from 

 analogies. Nor can the problem be considered as solved by any 

 or all of the numerous theories which have so far been advanced. 

 These theories may be naturally divided into two classes, as 

 the_y may refer the iron-ores, enclosed in the subterranean strata, 

 to an extraneous or to an indigenous origin. 



A. Theories of Extraneous Origin. 



To begin with the former, we have 



1. Meteoric fall. Tliis startling theory' has been suggested to 

 account for the enormous mass of martitic specular iron-ore, 

 claimed to be the most extensive known single deposit of iron-ore 

 on the continent, that of the Cerro de Mercado, two miles from 

 Durango, Mexico. '" Cerro de Mercado is a mountain, one mile 

 long, one-third of a mile wide, and from 400 to (iOO feet in height. 

 The ore-surface of the mountain aggregates over 10,000,000 square 

 feet ; but there are indications that the ore is not all above ground, 

 and the engineer's report declares it to be an enormous aerolite, 

 half imbedded in the level plain on which it lies." Such a view 

 is sufficiently controverted by the miueralogical constitutiou of 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882, 



the mass, and its structure — "immense veins of specular iron-ore 

 standing nearly vertical."^ 



2. Eruption as dykes. According to this genetic view, the 

 crj'stalline iron-ores have been extruded from the interior in a 

 pasty condition, like a lava, through fissures in the superficial 

 strata.2 This theory has been recently further developed in ref- 

 erence to the banded jasper}^ iron-ores of Michigan, and it has 

 been advanced that the banding and lamination of these ores are 

 similar in character and origin to those strongly marked in rhj-o- 

 lytes, furnace slags, etc.^ The mineralogical constitution and 

 infusibility of these ores, tlieir distinctly sedimentary lamination, 

 etc.,^ clearly testify to the unsoundness of these h3^potheses. 



3. Suhlimation into fissures. The inconsiderable crusts of 

 specular oxide, which have been observed in the vicinity of vol- 

 canoes, such as Vesuvius, have certainly no relation to the 

 enormous bedded masses, distributed throughout the world, at a 

 distance from volcanic centres. 



B. Theories of Indigenous Origin. 



The theories of this class differ in ascribing the origin of iron- 

 ores to either chemical or mechanical agencies. Nine chemical 

 theories have been proposed. 



4. Concentration from ferriferous rocks or lean ores, by the 

 solution and removal of the predominant constituent, e. g., silica, 

 by means of thermal solutions. Indeed it has been shown^ that a 

 concentration, in a similar way, of the ferriferous constituent, in 

 tlie lower carboniferous limestone and dolomites of the Missis- 

 sippi basin, through the removal of the more soluble calcium car- 

 bonate by carbonated waters, has apparently produced extensive 

 deposits of limonite, in loco originali. But there is no evidence 



' B. Silliman, Am. Jour. Sci., 1882 (iii), xxiv, 375 ; and J. Birkinbine, 

 Chicago Mill. Jour., 1883, ii, No. 4, p. 184. 



^ J. D. Whitney, The Metallic Wealth of the U. S., p. 433. 



3 M. E. Wadsworth, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1880, xx, 470 ; and Am. 

 Jour. Sci., 1881 (iii), xxii, 403. 



* J. D. Dana, Am. Jour. Sci., 1881 (iii), xxii, 320, 402 ; J. S. Newberry, 

 Sch. of Mines Quarterly, Nov., 1880. 



'" J. P. Lesley, Report on Brown Hematite Deposits of Nittany Valley, 

 Pa.; R. Pumpelly, Geol. Surv. Mo., Prelim. Rep. on Iron-ores, 1872, 8, 

 et seq. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



of the relation of any of the crystalline iron-ores, enclosed in 

 sediments of plainly submarine origin, with any such subaerial 

 process. Even were the theory satisfactory in regard to the pure 

 ores, the essential question remains unanswered, viz., the genesis of- 

 the original '• ferriferous rocks or lean ores" themselves. 



5. Saturation of porous strata, e. g., of sandstone, by infiltrating 

 solutions canying iron oxide. ^ This theory, however applicable 

 to certain rock-masses rich in hvdrated ferric oxides, can account 

 neither for the concentration of the huge and pure bodies of the 

 true ores, nor for the alternation of siliceous and ferriferous 

 laminae and layers in the lean ores. 



C>. Infiltration into subterranean chambers and channels, de- 

 positing pipe-ores and limonites in widened crevices and joints of 

 the more recent limestones or other sedimentary rocks, or in 

 cavities overlying impervious strata.^ The lenticular form, lami- 

 nated structure, intercalation of the material of the matrix, 

 enclosure of the ore-bodies in the bedding-planes, and other facts, 

 markedly distinguish the crystalline ores from the limonites 

 formed by such a process, 



7- Decomposition of pyrite, and other ferruginous minerals, 

 enclosed in decaying schists, and transfer of the iron-oxide in 

 solution as ferrous sulphate.^ The precipitation of the iron-oxide 

 has been sometimes attributed to simple oxidation, more usually 

 to the production of ferrous carbonate, by reaction between the 

 ferrous sulphate and the calcium carbonate of the limestone, 

 afterwards converted into limonite b\- oxidation and hydration.^ 

 This theory has had only local application, even to the limonites, 

 and its connection with the crystalline ores is rendered improbable 

 by the absence of associated limestones, or, if present, of evidences 

 of their erosion, etc. 



8. Derivation from original deep-sea deposits of hydrous ferric 

 oxide, or of ferrous carbonate, dehydrated b}' subsequent heat, and 

 deoxidized by hydrogen.^ Bv a modification of this theory, the 

 jasper-ores have been connected with the ferruginous and mangan- 



' Emmons, Nat. Hist. K. Y., iv, 94. 

 *F. Prime, Jr., Am. Jour. Sci., 1875 (ill), ix, 43?. 

 ' T. S. Hunt, Nat. Ac. Sci., Nov., 1874. , 



* G. BischofT, Chem. and Phys. Geol., 1, 236 ; F. Prime, Jr., loc. cit.; W. 

 B. Rogers, Geol. Penn., 1868, ii, Pt. ii, 722, 729. 

 ^ J. P. Lesley, The Iron Master's Guide, p. 374. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



iferous nodules which have been dredged from the surface-layer of 

 the deep-sea ooze of our present ocean-bottoms.^ All the evidence 

 so far gathered, however, shows no correspondence between the 

 phenomena, the ferriferous contents of the ooze consisting of 

 irregular crusts and nodules, never continuous nor interlaminated 

 with silica. On the other hand, there is abundant evidence that 

 the strata associated with the crj-stalline iron-ores are mostl}^ 

 shallow-water or shore-deposits, in large part congiomeritic. 



9. Deposit from springs, by oxidation and precipitation from 

 solutions of ferrous carbonate, on exposure to the air at their 

 issue. ^ Such deposits, it is admitted, are local and limited, and 

 the theory can have no bearing on the ordiuarj' wide-spread 

 crystalline ores. 



10. Alteration of diffused ferric oxide, disseminated through 

 sediments, into ferrous carbonate, in presence of vegetable matter, 

 and its accumulation in particular layers b}' processes of filtration 

 and segregation. 3 The vague processes thus invoked to account 

 for the accumulation of ores are not accepted as satisfactory, even 

 for the carbonates of the coal measures, lying in definite planes. 

 Nor do the sheets and beds of crystalline ores iisuall}^ show the 

 irregular characteristics which may be attributed to processes of 

 segregation. 



11. Iletamorphi^m of ancient bog-ores. The reference of the 

 crystalline iron-ores to this origin has been thus stated by Dr. 

 Hunt : " I see no reason for assigning any other than a sedimentar}" 

 origin to the magnetic and specular iron-ores of the crystalline 

 schists ; nor do I conceive that the conditions under which the}'' 

 were deposited differed essentially from those which at the present 

 day give rise to beds of limonite and ochre. "^ Again he observes: 

 " The organic matters reduce the peroxide of iron to a soluble 

 protoxide, and remove it from the soil, to be afterwards deposited 

 in the forms of iron-ochre and iron-ores, which by subsequent 

 alteration become hard, cr^'stalline, and insoluble."^ 



1 W. O. Crosby, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1879, xx, 168, 



2 G. Bischoff, Chem, and Phys. Geol., i, 155-157, 166-167. 



3 W. B, Rogers, Geol. Penn., 1868, it, Pt. ii, 737. 



t 



* Letter of Dr. T. S. Hunt, 1858, quoted in Lesley's Iron Master's Guide, 



p. 365. See also Vanuxem, Nat. Hist. N. Y., Geol., 3d District, p. 267. 



* T. 8. Hunt, Chem. and Geol. Essays, 22. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Le Conte also states: " Therefore we conclude that both ??oii'and 

 always iron-ore is, and has been, accumulated by organic agency.'" 



Prof. J. D, Dana remarks,"- coucerning the Upper Silurian 

 deposits: " The beds of argillaceous iron-ore * * * could not have 

 been formed in an open sea. for clayey iron deposits do not accu- 

 mulate under such circumstances. They are proof of extensive 

 marshes, and, therefore, of land near the sea-level. The fragments 

 of erinoids and shells found in these beds are evidence that they 

 were, in part at least, salt-water marshes, and that the tides 

 sometimes reached them." In reference to the Laurentian deposits, 

 he states : " Limestone strata occurred among the alternations, and 

 argillaceous iron-ores, though vastl}^ more extensive. * * * The 

 argillaceous iron-ore has become the bright hematite or magnetite, 

 and it is banded by, or alternates with, schist and quartz, etc., 

 which were once accompanj'ing clay- and sand-layers." 



Dr. Kitchell long ago opposed the theory- of the igneous or 

 eruptive origin of the magnetic iron-ores of New Jersey, main- 

 taining that they " were of sedimentary origin, and had been 

 deposited just as the gneiss and crystalline limestone had."'' 

 With this vieAv Prof. Cook coincides, in the following statement: 

 " The magnetic iron-ores of this State have originated from 

 chemical or mechanical deposits, just as our hematites and bog 

 iron-ores do now."^ 



In opposition to this theory, in its reference to subaerial bogs 

 or marshes, it must be considered that the enclosing and associated 

 strata bear universal testimon}-, both in their contents and the 

 form of their superficies, to their submarine mode of deposit. On 

 the other hand, if the bog-ore theory were applicable to these 

 ores, every ore-bed would impl}- a terrestrial plane for the recep- 

 tion of the subaerial bog deposit, i. e,, for every ore-lens a cor- 

 responding elevation above the sea-level and ensuing subsidence 

 of the entire underlying stratum. On the contrarv, no evidence 

 has been shown in the archaean strata of any subaerial surface ; all 

 appear to be submarine sediments, and that still more ancient 

 rocky terrane which formed the coast whose debris, poor in iron, 



' J. Le Conte, Elements of Geology, 37.3. 

 ^ J. D. Dana, Manual of Geol., p. 231 and ISr. 



=* W. Kitchell, Geol. Surv. X. J., 2d Rep., 1855, 155, 229, etc. ; and 3d 

 Rep., 185G. 

 * G. H. Cook, Geol. of N. J., 1:6 i, 61. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



was deposited or strewn over the ancient Laurentian sea, and 

 upon whose surface bog-deposits maj'- have rested, seems to have 

 been entirely buried up beneath later sediments. Again, the 

 strongly marked lenticular form and laminated structure of all 

 deposits of crystalline iron-ores — and even of the numerous smaller 

 lenses, parallel or overlapping, which make up the large deposits — 

 are unmistakably characteristic of marine accumulation, Nep- 

 tune's own royal stamp. A bog-ore deposit is almost always irreg- 

 ular in outline, concretionary and cavernous in structure, and 

 commonlv characterized by concentration in pockets and groups 

 of isolated lumps. One can rarely fancy any traces of such 

 peculiarities in the compact S3-mmetrical lenses which make up 

 ordinary deposits of magnetite. 



The complete dehydration and partial deoxidation of the hy- 

 drated iron-oxide of a bog-ore, necessary for its conversion into a 

 magnetite, must have produced an enormous contraction ; but of 

 this there is rarely any evidence, such as might be expected, in 

 the disturbance of the lamination of the ore, and of the stratifi- 

 cation of the surrounding rock. 



It is of common occurrence that a bed of crystalline iron-ore 

 overlies a bed of limestone, in immediate contact (e. g.^ at the 

 Baldwin-Forsyth mine, Hull, Canada); and yet the surface of the 

 latter is perfectl}' plane, presenting no trace of the pitting and 

 erosion^ to which so soluble a material would have been subjected 

 by the action of the organic acids supposed to have been con- 

 cerned in the concentration of the ore in a bog. 



Although graphite does often occur in intermixture with the 

 crystalline ores, its general absence seems to prove that it cannot 

 be chiefly derived from the organic matter (1 to 36 per cent.) con- 

 tained in all limonites, but rather, it may be, from the algaj and 

 marine plants sometimes finding their growth and entombment in 

 the sands, even of iron-oxide, in shallow water. To the deoxida- 

 tion produced in the decomposition of the remains of such plants, 

 the content of sulphur in many iron-ores ma}' be due. 



12. TJie metamor'phism of ancient lake-deposits of limonite 

 passing into hematite, corresponding to the oolitic " fossil ore " of 

 the Clinton group of the Upper Silurian, to the " mustard seed " 

 ore described by Sjiirmalm, which is deposited near the banks of 



' B. Von Cotta, Ore Deposits, 249, 284. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 341 



the present Swedish lakes,' etc. This " Lake ore " theory^ seems 

 to be valid for a large luimher of huge deposits of the crystalline 

 ores, and also satisfactorily accounts for the abundant presence 

 of apatite in many ore-beds. It may be fittingly applied, there- 

 fore, in explanation of the phenomena seen in those deposits 

 which contain a notable amount of calcium phosphate ; most of 

 those which consist of hematite, or of magnetite passing into or 

 occasionall}' enclosing hematite, viz., in this country those of Cerro 

 de Mercado, of Southern Utah, of Port Henry, N. Y., etc. ; and 

 the beds of magnetite which present the botiyoidal and concre- 

 tionary aspect and radiated structure of limonite, e. g., in 

 Southern Utali.^ 



On the other hand, the poverty or almost entire absence of 

 phosphorus and sulphur in certain ore-beds, and the extreme 

 abundance of titanic acid, free alumina, garnet, olivine, etc., in 

 others, demand some other explanation. 



Two mechanical theories are yet to be considered. 



13. Violent abrasion and transport. This theory may be best 

 stated in the words of its author: 



" That the azoic period was one of long-continued and violent 

 action cannot be doubted, and while the deposition of the strati- 

 fied beds was going on, volcanic agencies, combined with powerful 

 currents, may have abraded and swept away portions of the 

 erupted, ferriferous masses, re-arranging their particles and de- 

 positing them again in the depressions of the strata.'" 



This theory of Whitney was supplementarj^ to his main theory 

 of volcanic eruption of the ferriferous masses, rich in native iron. 

 But to this Leslc}' properly objects that such secondary deposits 

 would be conglomeritic and also contain metallic iron. 



14. Concentration and metamorphism of iron-sands. The work 

 of the ocean as a grand abrading agent, and in the transport of 

 the abraded detritus, has been largely studied and described by 

 many authors ; but less attention has been paid to the action 

 which goes on, during the shorter or longer period of transport 



1 B. Von Cotta, Ore Deposits, 461 ; The Geologist, 1863, 36. 



^ Dr. J. S. Newberry, "The Genesis of Our Iron Ores,'' Sch. of Mines 

 Quarterly, Nov., 1880, and "On the Genesis of Crystalline Iron-Ores," 

 Trans. N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. ii, Oct. 23, 1882, 



' J. S. Newberry, loc. cit., 12. 



♦ J. D. Whitney, Met. Wealth of the U. S., 434. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



of the detritus, in sorting out the various constituents in reference 

 to specific gravity. Almost every sheltered bay and cove afford 

 instances, not onl}^ of local deposits peculiar as to size, e.r/., gravels, 

 sands, or fine silt, but concentrated gatherings of the grains of 

 certain minerals, Avhose separation has been due to the relation of 

 their specific gravity and form to the force of the surf or of local 

 currents. The tertiary sands which border our Atlantic coast 

 present everywhere examples of this continuous and delicate 

 jigging action of the ocean, in the gathering together — now of 

 black iron-sands, either magnetic or titaniferous, now of red garnet- 

 sands, often of the two intermingled, and, still more abundantly, 

 deposits of pure white quartz-sand. The iron-sands become very 

 prominent in certain localities, e. gf., in this country at Killings- 

 worth, on the Connecticut shore of Long Island Sound, on the 

 north shore of the lower St. Lawrence, on the coasts of California 

 and the shores of Lake Huron and Lake Erie, Oregon, etc., and 

 abroad, along the coast of Great Britain, the shores of the Baltic 

 and Mediterranean, New Zealand, Madagascar, and Hindostan. 

 Special attention has been given to the deposits of the lower St. 

 Lawrence, which lie about three metres above high-water mark, 

 and comprise laj-ers of black iron-sand, often nearly pure, from 

 1'5 to 15 centimetres in thickness. 



''An inspection of tlie iron-sands, from the various localities 

 above mentioned, shows that they all contain, besides the ores of 

 iron, a small proportion of red garnet, and more or less of fine 

 siliceous sand. The latter of the two substances it is possible to 

 remove almost entirely b}^ careful washing of the crude ore.'"^ 



The frequent purity of these sands may be inferred from the 

 following determinations by Dr. Hunt of their content of quartz 

 and ailiceoas residue: 



Riviere du Loup (in Chaudiere Valley), 4-80 per cent. 



Moisie,2 5-92 " 



Quogue. Long Isd., X. Y. (quartz and 



red garnet), H-OO " 



Li other parts of the world, espcciall}- where volcmic or crys- 

 talline rocks compose the coast-line, other minerals, such as olivine 



1 Dr. T. S. Hunt, Rep. Prog. Geol. Can., 180(5 69, 261-269; also, Canad. 

 Nat., 1872, vi, 79. 



2 The washed iron-sand contains 0-70 per cent, of sulphur, and 0-007 per 

 cent, of phosphorus. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



(in the Sandwich Islands^, hornblende, augite, volcanic glass etc. 

 (on the Mediterranean), often constitute the sands along the shores. 

 Beach-sands, where non-calcareous, consist chiefly of the following 

 minerals,^ whichare arranged in the order of their specific gravities : 



S. G. 

 Quartz (and chert), .... 2'5 — 2-8 



Olivine, 3-3— 3-5 



Garnet, 3-1 — 4-3 



Ghromite, 4-3— 4-6 



Menaccanite, ...... 4-5 — 5' 



Magnetite, . . . . . . 5' — 5"1 



It is a significant fact that in the mctamorphic, crystalline rocks 

 of our continent, from Canada to Alabama, we find the same 

 minerals concentrated also in rock-form, viz. : 



Quartziie (siliceous schist, jasper, etc.) : common every- 

 where. 

 Chrysolite (or dunite. Largely converted into serpentine, 

 etc.) : Canada, Michigan, North Carolina, Georgia, Ala- 

 bama, etc. 

 Garnefile (or garnet-rock. Sometimes made up of manga- 

 nese-garnet) : Canada, New York, North Carolina, etc.; 

 in close association w-ith magnetite at Franklin and 

 near Andover, N. J., in Grenville, Canada, etc. Doubtless 

 in some cases tlic origin of this mineral (as well as of 

 olivine), especially if crystallized, must be assigned to 

 indigenous development in the course of metamorphisra. 

 But, at the Buckhorn Mine, Harnett County, N. C, my 

 own examination of the section, (U metres in height, 

 confirms the statement of Prof. Kerr,^ who notes the 

 following series (from above downward) : 

 Specular ore (11 metres). 

 Manganesian ore. 

 Slaty manganese-garnet. 

 Feldspathic gneiss. 

 Manganese-garnet. 

 Gneiss. 



' In regard to pyrite, its ready decomposition has usually prevented its 

 concentration in sands. As to hematite, its foliated texture seems to have 

 resulted both in its wide transport and distribution, resisting concentration, 

 and in its after conversion into hydrated peroxide. 



-■ Geol. N. C, 1875, i, 222. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882 



Here the garnet certainly occurs in ancient sedimentary 

 layers, whose partial decomposition has saturated the ore 

 with manganese oxide ; while the small admixture of 

 magnetite, frequentlj^ dispersed through the hematite, 

 points to the original sediment of iron-sand. 



Chromite: Massachusetts, Pennsylvania. North Carolina, 

 etc. 



Menaccanite : Canada, New York, New Jersey, Pennsyl- 

 vania, etc. 



Ilagnetite : common everywhere. 



Compound varieties also occur in abundance, which correspond 

 closely to the mixtures of the same minerals in the sands along 

 the coast, viz. ; 



Magnetic quartzite (martitic and hematitic jasper-schists, 

 etc.) : common everywhere. 



Magnetitic garnetite (also hematitic and manganesian) : 

 Buckhorn Mine, N. C. 



Chromitic dunite : Canada, North Carolina, Alabama, etc. 



Chrysolitic menaccanite (with magnetite) : Cumberland, 

 R. I.i 



Chrysolitic magnetite: O'Ncil Mine, Monroe, Orange 

 County, N. Y.^ 



Garnetiferous magnetite: mines in Saratoga and Wash- 

 ington Counties, N. Y., etc. 



Similar allied rocks occur abundantly in foreign countries: 

 dunite and clnysolitic roc-ks in Europe, New Zealand, etc. ; 

 chrysolitic magnetite, at Taberg, Sweden f magnetite and 

 menaccanite, in many localities. 



Garnet, together with hornblende, augite, cassiterite, apatite, 

 etc., has been observed in admixture with the magnetites of many 

 foreign deposits, e. g., of the Thorbjornsbo mine at Areudal, 

 Sweden; of Traversella, in Piedmont; of Berggieshiibel, in 

 Saxony ; of Schmiedeberg, in Silesia, etc. F. Wohler relates : 



"We spent a day in the large iron-mines of Langbanshytta. 

 The gangue of the fine magnetic iron-ore is frequently brown 



1 M. E. Wadsworth, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., 1881, vii, 183. 

 - J. D. Dana, Am. Jour. Sci , 1881 (iii), xxii, 152. 

 ^ A. Sjoren, Neues Jahrb. fiir Min., 1876, 434. 




1882. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



garnet, which is found in large quantities at the mouth of the 

 mine, and often serves as flux for the reduction of the ore."^ 



As the rock-strata, associated with all these varieties, are 

 undoubtedh^ of marine origin, and indicate deposition in shallow 

 water, it is natural to infer their correspondence in origin, in 

 many cases, with the unconsolidated shore-deposits of the present 

 day. In a recent search through the scientific literature of the 

 subject for any similar view, the following statement was found 

 concerning the crj'stalline iron-ores of Canada, in which this 

 theory has been, with some reserve, associated with the bog-ore 

 theory : 



" It seems possible that, in some cases, beds maj' have been 

 formed by the accumulation of iron-sands, just as the}' are forming 

 in the Gulf of St. Lawrence to-day, the material being derived from 

 the disintegration of pre-existing crystalline rocks. Such beds we 

 should expect to contain, not only magnetite, but ilmenite, and it 

 is well known that in many cases, ores, on being pulverized, may 

 be more or less completel}^ separated into a magnetic portion, 

 containing little or no titanic acid, and a non-magnetic portion 

 consisting essentially of ilmenite. It seems, however, probable 

 that in general their origin has been similar to that of the modern 

 bog- and lake-ores. Deposits of magnetite, as a rule, do not 

 continue of uniform thickness for any great distance like the 

 enclosing rocks; and this is just what might be expected if we 

 suppose them to have originally occurred as bog- or lake-ores, 

 which accumulated in local hollows or depressions."^ 



The thinly laminated martitic and hematitic jasper-schists of the 

 Huronian age, always remarkably free from both sulphur and 

 calcium-phosphate, at once present themselves for explanation. 

 Prof. Dana, in a criticism on other views,^ has attributed the origin 

 of these iron-ores to " metamorphism from original marsh-made 

 beds." More probabl}-, in my opinion, the conditions consisted of 

 a shore of some quartzose rock, rich in magnetite, whose debris 

 the waves and currents strewed over the sea-bottom, alternately 

 Avith thin sheets of quartz-granules and magnetite-crystals, partially 

 concentrating the one or the other material in numerous heaps or 

 thicker layers. In the progress of the metamorphism and contortion 



' F. Wohler, Early Recollections of a Chemist, Am. Chem., 1875, vi, 131. 

 " B. .J. Harrinjjton, Geol. Surv. Canada, Rep. Prog., 1873-187-1, 195. 

 •' Am. Jour Sci., 1881 fiii), xxii, 403. 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882, 



to which the la^'^ers were subjected, their compact and lenticular 

 forms were further developed, the magnetic oxide was farther 

 oxidized, partially as raartite, or completely as specular ore (as 

 already suggested by Brooks, Credner, ai^d others), and assumed, 

 at points where the contortion and pressure became intense, the 

 micaceous structure and brilliant lustre of micaceous iron-ore, by 

 a process similar to that which produces '"slickensides." 



The concentration of nearly pure magnetite in the deposits 

 enclosed in the Lower Laurentian strata of Canada and the 

 Adirondacks, and of titaniferous magnetite or menaccanite in the 

 huge ore-beds associated with the anorthosites of the Upper 

 Laurentian in both regions, point unmistakably to mechanical 

 separation of ferriferous sediments from different terranes : i. e., 

 in the one case from the magnetitic gneiss, in the other from the 

 traps and anorthosites, rich in menaccanite. An examination of 

 thin sections of diabase from dykes cutting pure magnetites in 

 Essex County, N. Y., showed this rock to be rich in menaccanite 

 and a possible source of such sediments. 



No concentration of titanic acid has ever been found in limonites 

 or bog-ores. These facts seem significant of the insufficiency of 

 any chemical theory to account for the origin of all the iron-ores. 



In conclusion, it may be inferred that the mode of genesis of a 

 bed of magnetic iron-ore may be determined with some probability 

 by the following diagnosis. 



When the ore retains structural characteristics allied to those 

 of limonite, or encloses masses of hematite, or contains a notable 

 amount of calcium-phosphate, a chemico-organic origin is probably 

 indicated. 



When the ore is exceptionally free from phosphorus, or is rich 

 in titanic or chromic acid, or is closely associated or mixed with 

 granular garnet or olivine, a mechanical origin may be inferred 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 34t 



The following annual reports were I'ead and referred to the 

 Publication Committee:— 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary' respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending NoA^ 30, 1882, fifteen members and six correspondents 

 have been elected. 



The Council has endeavored to recommend for election as cor- 

 respondent those only who deserve such recognition of their 

 scientific standing, or who, as collectors and contributors, may 

 confer material benefit on the societ}'. 



Resignations of membership have been received from Ferris W. 

 Price, T. L. Buckingham, T. Miles, H. W. Stelwagon and Henry 

 Letfman. The name of one member-elect was ordered to be 

 stricken from the roll in consequence of the provisions of the 

 By-Laws nqft having been complied with within the prescribed 

 time. 



The deaths of twentv-one members and eleven correspondents 

 have been announced. The names of the deceased have been 

 recorded in the printed Proceedings, under the several dates of 

 announcement. 



Twentj'-two papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows : Angelo Heilprin, 3 ; Rev. Dr. H. C, McCook, 2 ; Theodore 

 D. Rand, 2 ; Henry S. Williams, 1 ; Dr. W. S. AY. Ruschenberger, 1 ; 

 L. T. Da}', 1 ; Aubre_y H. Smith, 1 ; Rafael Arango, 1 ; Dr. Harrison 

 Allen, 1 ; J. S. I^ewiserry, 1 ; Charles Mohr, 1 ; T. W. Eastlake, 1; 

 R. E. C. Stearns, 1 ; Dr. Joseph Leid}-, 1 ; Drs. H. C. Wood and 

 H. P. Formad, 1 ; Joseph Swain, 1 ; H. A. Keller, 1 ; E. S. Rein- 

 hold, 1. These include four papers which were presented through 

 the Mineralogical Section and published as part of its Proceedings, 

 The paper by Drs. Wood and Formad, on Diphtheria, was with- 

 drawn by the authors ; all the others have been printed. 



One hundred and fifty-two pages of the Proceedings for 1881, 

 and two hundred and forty-eight for 1882, together with six 

 lithographic plates, have been published. 



Some of the earlier numbers of the publications hailing been 

 entirely exhausted, it was found necessary to reprint 75 pages 

 and three plates of the quarto Journal and 38 pages of the 

 Proceedings. The Publication Committee is greatly indebted to 

 Mr. Chas. F. Parker, who has devoted much care to the arrange- 



23 




3-18 PROCEEDI^GS OF TUE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



ment of our stock of the earlier iDiiblications. Apart from frequent 

 errors of paging and numbering of signatures, no account had been 

 taken of stock on hand since the removal of the society to the 

 present building, and it required one of Mr. Parker's experience 

 in such work to determine how far sets of the first ten volumes of 

 the Proceedings could be completed. The result has been an 

 unusually large return from sales of back numbers and complete 

 sets, as maj' be seen b}- reference to the report of the Treasurer. 

 It will, however, require considerable additional outlay for 

 reprinting, to enable the Committee to fill orders for the first 

 series of the Proceedings. The scarcer numbers and volumes 

 have not, of course, been sold separately. 



One hundred and twenty -five copies of the Proceedings liave 

 been distributed to subscribers, and three hundred and forty to 

 foreign and domestic exchanges. Of the latter, seventj^-six have 

 been sent by mail, and two hundred and sixty-foUr have been 

 distributed by the Smithsonian Institution and its s^'stem of 

 international agencies. 



The average attendance at the weekly meetings, which have been 

 held without interruption, has been twenty -six. Verbal communi- 

 cations have been made by thirty -two individuals, and the majority 

 of them have been published in the Proceedings, So well has the 

 interest in these meetings been sustained, that it has been found 

 desirable to report forty -three of them, or all but nine, and these 

 for the most part held in midsummer, for the public papers. In 

 addition to the regular meetings of the Acadeni}', those of the Sec- 

 tions have been held with the results recorded in tlie several reports. 



The B^'-Laws were amended as follows : — Art. 14, Chap. V, by 

 striking out all after the word " meetings," in the third line, and 

 inserting " and with like approval may change the same," Art, 

 4, Chap, V, by adding " But Sections may admit persons not 

 members of the Academy to be contributors under such rules and 

 on such terms as the Section may determine, always provided, that 

 a contributor shall not be eligible to office in a Section, or to vote 

 on an}' (piestion; and also provided that the rights and privileges 

 of a contributor shall be restricted to attendance at the meetings 

 of the Section, to the reading of original scientific papers and to 

 taking part in the scientific discussions and proceedings exclu- 

 sively, and that a contributor shall have no other right or privilege 

 whntovor in the Academv.'' 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



A proposition to so amend Art. 1, Chapter XI, as to prevent 

 the loaning of tj'pe specimens from the Museum, was, on the 

 recommendation of the Council, lost, it being the opinion of the 

 majority that sufficient guarantee for their care and preservation 

 already- existed in the laws governing the loaning of specimens. 



On April 25, Dr. Chas. Schaeffer was elected a Curator to supply 

 the A'acancy caused by the death of Dr. Kenderdine. He held the 

 position until Oct. 31, when he resigned in consequence of a 

 proposed continued absence from the country. As the vacancy 

 occurred so near the end of the year, it was not deemed necessary 

 to fill it until the casting of the annual ballot, which resulted in 

 the election of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, together with the 

 three Curators who had held office during the yeav. 



The death of Mr. Wm. S. Yaux left vacant a Vice-Presidency 

 and a Curatorship. On May 23 the Rev. Dr. Henry C. McCook 

 was elected to the former office and Mr. Jacob Binder to the latter. 

 Mr. Thos. A. Robinson was elected to fill the vacancy in the 

 Council, caused by the election of Rev. Dr. McCook as Vice- 

 President, he thereby becoming an ex-officio member of the 

 Council. 



At the meeting held Ma}' 28 a letter was read from a friend of 

 the Acadeni}'-, presenting through Mr. Jos. Jeanes the sum of 

 one thousand dollars, to be appropriated in such manner as Mr. 

 Jeanes might think best for the interests of the society. It having 

 been suggested by Mr. Jeanes that the money might with advan- 

 tage be made the nucleus of a Museum Fund, this disposition of 

 the gift was ordered, and the meeting held Ma}^ 30, adopted the 

 following resolutions, placing the creation of the Fund on formal 

 record : — 



Inasmuch as the Academ}'^ has determined to appropriate 

 towards the creation of a Museum Fund, one thousand dollars 

 which have been received from " a friend of the Academy," whose 

 name is withheld at his request, through the kindly hands of Mr. 

 Jeanes : — 



Resolved, That the Museum Fund thus begun be held under the 

 provisions of the By-laws, Chap. VI, like other special funds. 



That Mr. Jeanes be requested to convey to oui' liberal friend 

 the thanks of the Academy for his bounty and generous token of 

 friendliness to scientific work. 



The Museum of the Acadeni}^, in some respects one of the 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF TUB ACADEMY OF [1882. 



finest in the world, has grown almost entirely hy gifts from those 

 interested in the progress of the natural sciences. The Curators 

 have never until now had even the smallest annual sum placed at 

 their disposal for the purchase of desiderata, and many oppor- 

 tunities, therefore, of obtaining such have been lost. Several of 

 the departments of the Museum are now so large that a compara- 

 tively small outlay will be sufficient to keep them abreast of current 

 investigation. The value of a museum depends, not so much 

 upon its size as upon the care taken bj?- competent persons in the 

 selection of the objects composing it. 



Thanks to the liberality of Mr. Isaiah Y. Williamson, Mr. Jos. 

 Jeanes and the late Dr. Thomas B.Wilson, the Academ^^ is reason- 

 ably well supplied with current scientific literature, but such fresh 

 collections as have been studied from time to time by those con- 

 nected with the society, either as members or students, have been 

 for the most part secured by individual enterprise. It is hoped 

 that the Museum Fund now created will be so added to as to fur- 

 nish the means of procuring for the society' material for original 

 research. 



At the meeting held Sept. 12, a committee, consisting of Messrs. 

 Ruschenberger, Redfield, Tryon, McCook and Meehan,was ap- 

 pointed for the purpose of determining means for the extension of 

 the building. 



In harmony with a suggestion made by Dr. Horatio C. Wood, 

 during a communication to the Academy, Oct. 10, on the source 

 of supply of the cinchona alkaloids, a committee, consisting of 

 Messrs. H. C. Wood, Thos, Meehan, John K. Valentine, Isaac C. 

 Martindale and John II. Redfield, was appointed to memorialize 

 Congress as to the importance of making suitable experiment in 

 the cultivation of Cuprea bark within the limits of the United 

 States. 



No reports from these committees have as j-et been received. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



In accordance with the laws of the Academy, the Corresponding 

 Secretary submits the following report for the year ending Nov. 

 30, 1882. 



The business for the year has consisted, for the most part, of 

 letters from corresponding societies transmitting their publica- 

 tions and acknowledging the receipt of those sent by us, as well as 

 acknowledgments from newly elected Correspondents. 



T^ie correspondence from the Academy has been the official 

 acknowledgments and thanks of the society for donations of 

 various kinds to the Museum, and the notification of Correspon- 

 dents of their election. 



In addition there is always an amount of miscellaneous corre- 

 spondence, the greater part of which has been brought before the 

 Academy for its action when needed; otherwise the letters, usuall}'^ 

 of inquiry, have been prom[)tl3' answered. 



During the summer the Corresponding Secretarj'" had the 

 opportunity of visiting the libraries of many corresponding 

 societies, and found the exchanges in good state of completeness 

 and as promptly received as is usual through the international 

 exchange. Deficiencies were, however, detected in some instances 

 and requests have since been officially received for missing parts. 



During my absence the duties of the position were kindly and 

 ably performed by Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 



The summary is as follows : — 



LETTERS RECEIVED. 



Acknowledgments from Corresponding Societies, . 46 

 Lettei's of transmission of publications, . . .50 

 Acknowledgments of election, ..... 1 

 Miscellaneous, 17 



LETTERS SENT. 



Acknowledgments of donations to Museum, . . 165 

 Notifications of Correspondents elected, ... 6 



Miscellaneous, 12 



The donations to the Museum have been acknowledged in full 

 to the donors, the number above indicating merel^'^ the letters 

 sent ; a more detailed account will appear in the Curators' report. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 




352 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1882. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian reports that during the year ending Nov. 30, 

 1882, there have been 2Y95 additions made to the library of the 

 Academ}'. This increase has been composed of 366 volumes, 

 2417 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 12 maps. The larger 

 number consists as heretofore of instalments of journals and 

 transactions received in exchange for the publications of the 

 Academy from corresponding societies. 



The sources from which this increase has been derived is as 

 follows : — 



Societies, 1058 



Editors, 769 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . . 291 



Authors, 230 



F. V. Hayden 158 



Jos. Jeanes, 61 



Wilson Fund, 50 



Geo. Vaux, 41 



Department of the Interior, . 21 

 Department of Agriculture, . 13 

 Geological Surv. of Belgium, 13 

 Executors of the late Dr. Rob- 

 ert Bridges, 12 



Geological Purvey of India, . 10 



Engineer Department, U.S.A. 8 



Isaac Lea, 8 



Minister of Public Works, 



France, 6 



Treasury Department, . . 5 



War Department, .... 4 



British Museum, .... 3 



Smithsonian Institution, . 3 

 Minister of Public Works, 



Mexico, 3 



Geological Survey of New 



Jersey, 2 



Geological Survey of Canada, 2 



Norwegian Govex'ument, . 2 



Trustees of Public Library, 

 Victoria, 



Health Department, N. York, 



Rev. Dr. Syle, 



Liverpool Free Public Library, 



Geodetic Commission of the 

 Netherlands, 



Fish Commissioners of Con- 

 necticut, 



J. A. Ryder, 



Geol. Survey of Minnesota, 



B. Westermann & Co., . . 



Department of Mines, Nova 

 Scotia 



Department of Mines, N. S.W. 



Asa Gray, 



U. S. Coast Survey, . . . 



Louisiana Board of Health, 



Rev. H. C.McCook, . . . 



Geological Survey of Penn- 

 sylvania, 



Thomas Meelian, 



Trustees of City Hospital, 

 Boston, 



G. W. Fox, 



Mayor of Brighton, . . . 



Australian Museum, Sydney, 



Royal College of Surgeons, 



The books and pamphlets obtained from these sources were 

 distributed to the various departments of the library as follows: — 



Journals, 2124 



Geology, 185 



General Natural History, . . 69 



Conchology, G2 



Mineralogy, 60 



Entomology, ; 58 



Botany, 55 



Bibliography, 19 



Chemistry, 18 



Anthropology, 17 



Ornithology, 14 



Agriculture, 13 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Physical Science, .... 12 



Voyages and Travels, ... 10 



Helminthology, 9 



Ichthyology, 9 



Medicine, 8 



Mammalogy, 8 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 8 



Herpetology, 6 



Encyclopedias, 5 



Education, 4 



Geography, 3 



Languages, 1 



Miscellaneous, 18 



The income oftlie I.V.Williamson Fund has been mainlj devoted 

 during the past year to the purchase of continuations of books 

 already subscribed for, and to the paying of bills which had accu- 

 mulated in consequence of the failure of some of the ground- 

 rents from which the fund is derived, as noticed in my last annual 

 report. These bills have now all been paid and the entire income 

 of the fund for the coming year will be at the disposal of the 

 committee. With the exception of Elliott's Felidae and Bucero- 

 tidse, but little has been obtained from the income of the Wilson 

 Fund, except the continuations of works subscribed for b}^ the late 

 Dr. Thos. B. Wilson. 



The more valuable books in addition to those received from the 

 above funds and in exchange, have been the gift of Mr. Jos. 

 Jeanes, who, in addition to the $739.80 recorded in my last report, 

 as having been given by him for the purchase of geological and 

 botanical books, has placed during the past year $300 at the dis- 

 posal of the Librarj' Committee for the purchase of such miscel- 

 laneous works as were immediatel}^ desirable. The titles of works 

 thus obtained , as well as those of all others received during the 

 year, will be found in the appended list of additions to thelibrar3\ 



The Academy is also indebted to Mr. Jeanes for a gift of 

 $300 to be used in binding journals, etc., subscribed for from the 

 I. V. Williamson Fimd. 



At a meeting of the Academy held April 26, 1882, it was 

 resolved, in accordance with the recommendation of the Council, 

 to authorize the Library Committee to accept the proposition 

 which had been received from Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., under 

 date of Jan. 16, to dispose by sale of certain works in the library, 

 which were in no sense connected with natural history, together 

 with the duplicates which had been accumulating for years. The 

 pi'oposition to select, catalogue and sell these books under the 

 supervision of the Library Committee was made on condition that 

 one-half the net proceeds, after paying expenses, should be trans- 

 ferred to the Academy, and the other half to the Conchological 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Section to form the nucleus of a fund for the purchase of speci- 

 mens for the Museum. 



The sale was authorized under the conviction that many valu- 

 able books on the Fine Arts and general literature would be of 

 more use in collections where they would be inquired for and 

 consulted than if they were retained as part of the librai-y of the 

 Academy, from the specialty of which the}' were so distinct. 

 Such a disposition of these books and the accumulated duplicates 

 as would be of greatest benefit to the library of the Academy 

 would certainly meet with the approval of their liberal donors, 

 chief among whom were Wm. Maclure and Dr. Thomas B. Wilson. 



About 1897 volumes were thus disposed of; 12T2 were works 

 on religion, history-, politics and general literature, for the most 

 part of little interest or value ; 424 were duplicates and 201 were 

 on the fine arts, architecture, antiquities, etc. Care was taken to 

 retain everything which could be considered as even remotely 

 pertaining to natural histor}^ 



The proceeds of the sale amounted to $1325.14, the Academy's 

 share of which, $662.57, was appropriated for binding. Each 

 volume thus bound has a label placed on the inside of the cover 

 properl}' crediting the fund. This amount, in addition to the sum 

 received from Mr. Jeanes, has enabled me to have bound during the 

 3'ear 077 volumes, while 240 are in process of binding. It is believed 

 that a sufficient balance will remain to provide for the binding of 

 about 200 volumes in addition to those above noted. The binding 

 of our periodicals had been some jea.rs in arrears, and the work 

 now done, although it forwards the orderlj^ arrangement of the 

 librar}^ and adds greatl}^ to the convenience of readers, leaves a 

 large number of volumes still in unbound parts. 



Ever}^ effort has been made as heretofore to keep our large col- 

 lection of periodicals as complete as possible by purchase and 

 exchange. Nearly all the applications made for deficiencies during 

 the year have been answered promptly and satisfactoril}-. 



A portrait in oil of the late Prof. S. S. Haldeman, painted by 

 Waugh, was presented b}' Mrs. S. J. Haldeman Haly, and one of 

 Dr. Thos. B. Wilson, b}^ Ulilke, of Washington, has been obtained 

 by subscription. Thelatter portrait completes the galler}' of past 

 Presidents with the exception of Dr. Robert Bridges. An effort 

 is being made, with almost the certainty of success, to secure by 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



subscription a portrait of Dr. Bridges, which, it is hoped, will be 

 hung in place earlj^ in the year. A framed life-sized crayon 

 portrait of Prof. John Tyndall was presented by the artist, Mr. 

 Ross. 



In view of the above statements the Academy may be congrat- 

 ulated on the fact that the past year has been an unusually 

 prosperous one for the library. 



All of which is respectfully^ submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following from the Curator-in-charge 

 as their report for the j-ear ending November 30, 1882 : — 



I would respectfully report, that during the j-ear Mr. C H. 

 Townsend has been engaged in separating the families of Passerine 

 birds, from the general ornithological collection, preparatory^ to 

 a better arrangement of that order. 



Mr. G. Howard Parker has been engaged in the arrangement of 

 the Coleoptera. 



The various collections have been carefully examined, and are 

 in good condition. 



The specimens presented to the Museum during the year have 

 been labeled, and placed in their proper places. 



Some progress has been made in labeling and arranging of 

 specimens in the Museum. 



Respectfully, 



C. F. Parker. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HENSZEY, 



Treasurer, for the year ending Xov. 30, 1882. 



Dk. 



To Balance from last account $ 918 71 



" Initiation fees 140 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual contributions) 1927 51 



" Life Memberships 200 00 



" Admissions to Museum 458 60 



" Sale of Guide to Museum 45 00 



" Sale of duplicate books $ 5 00 \ ^^7 =7 



" One-half proceeds of sale of books 662 57 J 



" Sale of paper 1 05 



" Freight returned 13 75 



" Fees, Lectures on Paloeontolugy 168 00 



" " " " Mineralogy 28 00 



" Publication Committee 1362 57 



" Interest from Mortgage Investments, Joshua T. Jeanes' 



Legacy 1000 00 



" Wilson Fund toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 



" By Publication Fund. Interest on Investments 508 55 



" Barton Fund. " " <> 480 00 



" Life Membership Fund. " " " 100 00 



" Maintenance Fund. " " " 50 00 



" Eckfeldt Fund. " " " 69 79 



" Interest on Deposits 51 10 



§8490 20 



Cr. 



Salaries, Janitors, etc §3204 96 



Freight 38 21 



Repairs 3.52 93 



Insurance 30 00 



Coal 418 00 



Gas 134 83 



Mounting Bird 1 50 



Printing, Stationery and Postage Stamps 126 77 



Alcohol 2 30 



Newspaper reports 92 (0 



Water Rent 26 15 



Trays 49 00 



Printing and Paper $1275 28 \ ,„^- „„ 



Binding same 30 00/ *^"*^ ^ 



Plates and Engravings 197 00 



Binding 429 75 



Six Cases of Drawers 136 50 



Guides to Museum 23 00 



Books 44 15 



Trubner & Co., London 59 96 



A. Heilprin, fees from Lectures on PaliBontology 168 00 



H. C. Lewis, fees from Lectures on Mineralogy 28 00 



Life Memberships, transferred to Life Membership Fund, 200 00 



Transferred to Stott Legacy Fund 2 00 



Miscellaneous 428 58 



$7498 89 



Balance, General Account $991 31 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35t 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



Balance per last Statement $1100 00 



Life Memberships transferred to this account 200 00 



Interest on Investments 100 00 



$1400 00 

 Transferred to General Account 100 00 



To Balance for Investment §1300 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Publications.) 



Balance per last Statement $240 00 



Interest on Investments 240 00 



1480 00 

 Transferred to General Account 480 00 



JESSUP FUND. (For Support of Students.) 



Balance per last Statement $581 67 



Interest on Investments «^fiO 00 



§1141 67 



Disbursed 430 00 



Balance $711 67 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $1408 2-5 



Income from Investments 290 00 



I. C. Martindale. Life Subscription to Proceedings 25 00 



$1723 25 

 Transferred to General Accouat 508 55 



To Balance for Investment $1214 70 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 626 35 



Interest on Investments 50 00 



Isaac C. Martindale 6 79 



Joseph Wharton 1000 00 



Susan W. Logan and A. Sydney Logan, Executors J. Dickinson 



Logan, deceased §500 00 



Less Collateral Inheritance Tax 25 00 



475 00 



$2158 14 

 Transferred to General Account 50 00 



To Balance for Investment $2108 14 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Mrs. STOTT FUND. (For Publications.) 



Balance per last Statement for Investment $2000 00 



Transferred from General Account 2 00 



„ „ $2002 00 



iJy Balance $ 2 00 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage, 5 per cent. Interest 700 00 



702 00 



To Balance for Investment §1300 00 



ECKFELDT FUND. 



Balance per last Statement for Investment $966 86 



Interest on Investments 69 79 



§)103b 65 

 Transferred to General Account 69 79 



To Balance for Investment $966 86 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $41 46 



Rents collected 77I ,50 



Ground-rents collected 1197 99 



$2010 96 



For Books $1040 31 



Subscription to Journal 3 00 



Binding 4 45 



Taxes and Repairs to Properties 429 17 



Collecting 100 54 



1577 47 



Balance $433 48 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance overdrawn as per last Statement $113 38 



For Books 340 61 



For Binding 3 90 



Transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 



$757 89 



Interest on Investments 525 00 



Balance Overdrawn $232 89 



MUSEUM FUND. 



Donation from Unknown Friend, per Joseph Jeanes, Esq., for 



Investment $1000 00 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 359 



BOOK FUND. 



Balance per last Statement |525 80 



Joseph Jeanes. Donation 300 00 



Thom^is Meehan. For Books 12 09 



|;838 49 



Less cash paid for Books 498 66 



Balance $339 83 



INSTRUCTION FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $35 00 



Isaac 0. Martindale 1 30 



Frederick Gutekunst 10 00 



John T. Morris 50 00 



|96 -SO 



Less cash disbursed for purposes appertaining to the Fund 36 30 



Balance $60 00 



BINDING FUND. (Donations from Joseph Jeanes, Esq.) 



Joseph Jeanes. Donations $800 00 



Less cash disbursed for Binding 22 15 



Balance $277 85 



REPORT OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 

 SECTION. 



Eighteen meetings were held during the year, with an average 

 attendance of about fifteen members. 



The following were elected members : — Dr. Crozier Griffith, Dr. 

 George A. Rex, Edward P. Starr, Wilson Mitchell. 



The following became contributors : — Dr. McClurg, J.H. Fenton, 

 Dr. R. A. Rainear, J. P. Herbert, D. S. Newhall. 



The following resigned membership : — J. E. Mitchell, Dr. R. J. 

 Levis, Dr. Guilford, Dr. Charles Turnbnll. 



The following members have died : — Dr. George Dixon, Dr. 

 Robert S. Kenderdine, William S. Yaux. 



During the year many valuable communications were brought 

 before the Section, and interesting discussions kept up the usual 

 attendance of members and visitors. Among the more valuable 

 communications, etc., may be mentioned those by the following 

 gentlemen : — 



Mr. D. S. Holmiin. — An exhibition of a Projecting Microscope 

 of peculiar design. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Dr. L, Brewer Hall. — An Eye Protector, to be used upon the 

 draw tube of the microscope. 



Mr. Balen. — An exhibition of living objects, espeeiallj'^ speci- 

 mens ^f Philodina^ Pandorina^ etc. 



Mr. Mitchell McAllister. — A lecture upon the Cultivation of 

 Hyacinths. 



Mr. John Ryder, — Upon the Embryology of Fishes. Also 

 upon a Compressorium of special design for study of the above. 



Mr. George Binder. — Extended observations upon the Anthe- 

 renis. 



Mr. J. Schimmel. — Extended observations upon the Chilodon 

 cucullulus. 



Dr. G. A. Rex. — Lecture upon the Classification of the Myxo- 

 mycetes. 



Mr. Edward Potts. — Lecture upon Fresh-water Sponges, and 

 their Classification. 



Mr. Jacob Binder. — Extended observations upon the Sucking 

 Cups upon the fresh-water beetles. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt. — Upon Repi'oduction in the Alga?. Also upon 

 Special Methods of Preparation and Mounting of Microscopical 

 Objects. 



Dr. Crozier Gritfith. — Upon the Minute Anatomy of the Kidney, 

 and upon the Vasa Recta Vessels of the Testicle. 



Mr. Charles Perot. — Upon the Development of Attacus. 



Dr. Alfred Reed. — Upon Vaccine Virus. 



Mr. John C. Wilson. — Upon Collomia coccinea. 



On October 16, the Mineralogical Section of the Academy, by 

 invitation, met with this Section in the consideration of objects of 

 interest to both. 



At the Annual Meeting held the first Monday in December, the 

 following were elected officers to serve during the year: — 

 Director^ ..... Mi*. Jacob Binder. 



Vice-Director^ 

 Recorder^ 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



. Mr. John C. Wilson. 



. Dr. Robert J. Hess. 



. Dr. L. Ashley Faught. 



. Dr. Isaac Norris, Jr. 



. Mr. Charles P. Perot. 



Respectfully, 



Robert J. Hess, 



Recorder 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 361 



REPORT OF THE COXCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that papers by Prof. Angelo Heilprin, Rafael Arango, T. W. 

 Eastlake and R. E. C. Stearns have been published in the Academy's 

 Proceedings. 



Since last report, two members, TVm. S. Vaux and Chas. M. 

 Wheatley, and one correspondent, Dr. F. H. Troschel, have died. 



Mr. Yaux became a member December 6, 1867, and was a 

 frequent and liberal contributor to our Museum. 



Mr. Wheatley was elected January 3, 1861. He for many 

 years studied the Fresh-water Mollusks, and contributed freely 

 both to our Museum and publications. 



Dr. Troschel was elected a correspondent August 1, 186t. 

 His death leaves incomplete his great work upon the Dentition of 

 the Mollusca. Besides being the author of numerous other 

 papers, principally upon the Anatomy of Mollusks, Dr. Troschel 

 had for 3'ears annually reviewed the literature of Conchology for 

 Wiegmann's " Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte." His death is a loss 

 to science, especially in his own department. 



Mr. Geo. W. Tr^'on, Jr., Conservator, reports that: — 



" During the j^ear ending December 1, 1882, fifty -two donations 

 of recent shells and mollusks have been received, aggregating 

 2049 specimens of T24 species. Assisted as usual by Mr. Chas. 

 F. Parker, these additions have all been labeled, mounted and 

 arranged in the general collection, which now numbers 40,225 

 named tablets, upon which are mounted 141,641 specimens. A 

 detailed list of the accessions for the year is annexed to this 

 report. The most important of these are: A collection of 221 

 species, all new to the Museum, purchased b}^ the Section ; 61 

 species of Californian marine shells, including a number of rare 

 and fine specimens, presented bv Joseph Jeanes ; 123 species of 

 Tasmanian marine shells, nearly" all new to our collection, i)re- 

 sented by C. E. Beddome, of Hobart Town, Tasmania. To our 

 generous Australian correspondents, Dr. J. C. Cox and Mr. John 

 Brazier, we are again indebted for valuable suites of their native 

 shells. 



" The rearrangement of the Conchological Museum, commenced 

 four years ago, is progressing. Dining the \'ear, the Marginellidte 

 and Olividae have been revised and largely relabeled. Some idea 




3G2 PEOCEEDINQS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882 



of the extent and completeness of our collection may be formed 

 from the fact that in these two families alone it includes 946 trays. 

 The Columbellidte and Cyprceadae are now undergoing lilce re- 

 vision, the latter bj'- Mr. S. R. Roberts." 



There have been no changes made in the By-Laws of the Section. 



The officers of the Section for 1883 are : — 



Director, 

 Vice-Director, 

 Recorder, . 

 Secretary, . 

 Librarian, . 

 Conservator, 

 Treasurer, . 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



John Ford. 



S. Ra3^mond Roberts. 



John H. Redfield. 



Edw. J. Nolan. 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Wm. L. Mactier. 



Respectfully submitted, on behalf of the Conchological Sec- 

 tion, by 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Yice-Director of the Botanical Section takes great pride in 

 reporting, that notwithstanding the agreeable reports he has had 

 to make in former years, he believes the prosperity of the work of 

 the Section has been greater during this than any former one. 

 Meetings have been held in all but the two summer months, and 

 many valuable facts communicated, some of which have been 

 repeated before the general meetingsof the Academy, and published 

 in its Proceedings. There are no debts of any consequence against 

 the Section, while its Treasurer reports a balance on hand of $11 9.92. 

 During the year one member has resigned, and it has lost one by 

 death. The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows : — 



Director, . . . Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director, . . Thomas Meehan. 



Recorder, . . . F. Lamson Scribner. 



Cor. Secretary,-^ ^ ^^^^^ ^ Martindale. 



Treasurer, j 



Conservator, . . .3^. H. Redfield. 



It seems almost superfluous to rei^eat what has been so often 

 said before in these rei)orts, that the voluntary work of the mem- 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHTA. 363 



bers ig not equal to the task of placing the magnificent Herbarium 

 of the Academy on the footing it is worth}^ of occupj'ing, unless 

 some competent botanist could be employed within a reasonable 

 time. Still in the hope that the Academy may soon see its way 

 to aid them, the members continue to do what the}^ can ; and the 

 Section has very great pleasure in adopting the report of its 

 Conservator, as part of its report of the work of the yesiv. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator's Rejjort. — The additions to the Herbarium of the 

 Academy during the past year, exceed those of an^' year since the 

 organization of the Section, being estimated at 3346 species, of 

 which more than one-third were new to the collection, and adding 

 more than 100 genera not before represented. 



For a large proportion of these we are indebted to the zeal and 

 liberality of our own members, who have evinced a laudable desire 

 to perfect the Academj^'s collection, by filling its desiderata, and 

 by improving the character of the representation of species already- 

 possessed. Special thanks are due to Messrs. Canby, Parker, 

 Martindale, Meehan and others, for their efforts in this direction. 



But we have also been favored with most liberal donations from 

 other sources. From Dr. Gray, of the Cambridge Herbarium, we 

 have received more than 1000 species. Among them we may 

 specif}' a second collection of plants made in the Kuram Yallej-, 

 Afghanistan, in 1880, by Major J. E. T. Aitcheson, and valuable 

 accessions from China, Formosa, Japan, Australia and Tasmania; 

 also a fine series of the polypetalous plants of our Mexican border, 

 collected b}^ Schatfner, Havard, Palmer and others, which, supple- 

 menting a collection of Palmer's plants from one of our own 

 members, give us a very full representation of the plants of the 

 Texo-Mexican region. 



Baron F. von Miiller, of Melbourne, Australia, has sent us, 

 through Mr. Meehan, 284 species of Australian plants, man}- of 

 them desiderata, and from Prof. Sargent, of the U. S. Forestry 

 Commission, we have received choice herbarium specimens of 

 some of the rarer trees and shrubs of our western regions. A 

 more complete list of the donations for the jear will be appended. 



24 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



The care and labor incident to the reception of these additions 

 have been great, and though the Conservator has received most 

 essential assistance from Messrs. Parker, Burk, Meehan and 

 Scribner, he has had little time left to devote to the improvement 

 of the condition of the herbarium. Yet something has been done 

 in this way. Provisional lists of species in the general herbarium 

 have been completed nearly to the end of the polypetalous orders. 

 In the North American Herbarium, the orders Ranunculaceae, 

 Saxifragacea?, and a few smaller orders have been mounted bj- the 

 aid of Mr. Parker, who has also contributed liberally to the filling 

 of gaps in these orders, for this purpose placing his own collection 

 entirely at the disposal of the Conservator. 



Respectfully submitted, 



John H. Redfield, 



Conse7'vato7\ 



REPORT OF MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 

 SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would 

 respectfully report : — 



Meetings of the Section have been held regularly through the 

 year, with a fair attendance, but the papers read have not been as 

 numerous as in former j^ears. The additions to the Collection 

 have been satisfactor}'. 



On the evening of October 15th, by request of the members of 

 the Microscopical and Biological Section, our Section met with 

 them, the subject under consideration being Microscopic Min- 

 eralogy. B}' the courtesy of the former Section a large number 

 of microscopes, many of them very fine instruments, were exhib- 

 ited, and by means of them specimens of minerals and rocks were 

 examined. This was the first joint meeting of Sections since the 

 passage of the amendment to the By-laws removing the prohibi- 

 tion against it, and its success was beyond question. 

 Respectfully submitted , 



Theo. D. Rand. 



Director. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALAEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paloeontology respectfulh" reports 

 that during the year 1882 a course of 36 lectures on Physiography' 

 and Invertebrate Palteontolog}^ was delivered in the class-room 

 of the Academy (commencing Jan. 6, and terminating May 9), 

 which course was attended b^^ an average of about 27 listeners, 

 largeh' made up of teachers, male and female, from some of the 

 more prominent institutions of learning in the city. 



The additions to the Palaeontological Department of the 

 Academy's Museum, which will be found recorded in another 

 place, have been during the present year comparatively insignifi- 

 cant; but no special attempts have been made to increase the 

 collections in this direction, since it was deemed advisable not to 

 further burden the department until more of the old stock had 

 been worked off through arrangement and classification. The 

 most important contribution received (although not j^et formally 

 presented to the Academj') is that of true Nummulites from the 

 Peninsula of Florida, the first and only representatives of that 

 highly important group of organisms thus far discovered on the 

 continent of North America. 



The work of labeling and classifying the old collections in the 

 Paleeontological Department of the Academy has made consider- 

 able progress during the year, the determination of specimens 

 embracing material contained in about 300 trays. The Conser- 

 vator is pleased to state that almost the entire series of Tertiary 

 fossils of the eastern United States — Eocene, Oligocene, Miocene, 

 and so-called Pliocene — is now satis factoril}- displayed and labeled, 

 the re-determination and identification of species having been 

 efiected for upwards of 1700 trays. The collection, as it now 

 stands, constitutes by far the most important and typical collec- 

 tion of tertiary invertebrate fossils in the countr}', and must form 

 for some time to come the groundwork for any standard work 

 bearing upon this section of American palseontological history. 



The department of the library pertaining to Geolog}' and 

 Palaeontologj'^ has received many valuable accessions during the 

 year, for a considerable portion of which the Academy is again 

 indebted to the liberalitj- of Mr. .Toseph Jeanes. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



The department is also largel}^ indebted to Mr. Chas. F. Parker, 

 Curator-in-charge, who has kindl}^ undertaken the mounting of 

 specimens. Respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Palaeontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY. 



The Professor of Mineralogy respectfull}' reports that in addi- 

 tion to the usual work of classifying the collections under his 

 charge, he has delivered during the winter and spring of 1882, a 

 course of 28 lectures on Mineralogy. 



The lectures, given under the auspices of the Committee on 

 Instruction, began on January 5, 1882, and were given tri-weekly 

 in the class-i'oom of the Academy. They included an examina- 

 tion of the valuable collection of the Academy, and practical 

 demonstrations of the method of determining minerals both by 

 their external and by their chemical characters. 



The mineralogical collection is gradually increasing in size and in 

 value. In the absence of any specific fund for the purchase of new 

 specimens, it has not been possible to add to its number of species 

 except by exchange or through donations. Special care has been 

 taken that where minerals are acquired by exchange or otherwise, 

 preference should be given to species not in the collection. 300 

 specimens have been received through donation or exchange, 37 

 of which are species new to the collection. A detailed catalogue 

 of these, with the donors, is given in the appended list, the minerals 

 new to the collection being printed in italics. The most note- 

 worthy addition to the collection has been the donation of Mr. J. 

 M. Hartman of a large number of specimens. The lithological 

 collection has also been increased by some 43 specimens. The 

 labeling and mounting of the specimens has been performed as 

 before by Mr. Chas. F. Parker, Curator-in-charge, whose skill in 

 such work has greatly increased the beauty of the collection. 



The attention of the friends of the A(;ademy is again drawn to 

 the necessity of mineralogical apparatus for the prosecution of 

 advanced mineralogical work. The Professor of Mineralogy has 

 been unable to properly classify the large collection of feldspars 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



in the Academy, for want of a suitable polarizing microscope. 

 The work will be undertaken as soon as an instrument is obtained. 

 The micas have been classified by the aid of an instrument made 

 at his own expense. A reflecting goniometer is also greatly to be 

 desired, both for class instruction and for the proper determination 

 of many crystalline forms in the collection. 



By the death of Mr. Wm. S. Yaux the Academy has lost a most 

 liberal contributor to the mineralogical collection. Arrangements 

 ai*e now in progress, which it is hoped will result in transferring 

 his verj^ valuable collection to the custody of the Academy. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



IT. Carvill Lewis, 



Professor of Mineralogy. 



The election of Officers for 1883 was held, with the following 

 result : — 



President, . . . Joseph Leidy, M. D. 

 Vice-Presidents, . . Thomas Meehan, 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 

 Recording Secretary, . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Corresponding Secretary, George H. Horn, M. D. 

 Treasurer, . . . William C. Hensze3\ 

 Librarian, . . . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 

 Curators, . . . Joseph Leid}^, M. D., 



Clias, F. Parker, 



Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 

 Councillors to serve three Thomas A. Robinson, 

 years, . . . Edward Potts, 



Isaac C. Martindale, 



Theodore D. Rand. 

 Finance Committee, . Isaac C Martindale, 



Clai'ence S. Bement, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



Geoi'ffe Y. Shoemaker. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1882. 



MEMBERS. 



January 31. — Robert B. Haines, Jr., Alfred C. Harrison, Abel 

 F. Price, M. D., Rev. W. J. Holland, Chas. H. Hutchinson, Wilson 

 Mitchell. 



February 28. — Frank E. P. Lynde. 



March 28. — John Edgar, M. D., Eugene M. Aaron, Geo. Ta3'lor 

 Robinson, M. D. 



Aipril 25. — Thomas Moore, M. D. 



June 27 Henr}^ Howson. 



September 26. — William M. Gray, M. D. 



November 28. — F. Lynwood Garrison, Mrs. H. Carvill Lewis. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 31. — Dr. A. Baltzer, of Zurich; Prof. Robert Collett, of 

 Christiania. 



February 28. — Prof. Robert Hartmann, of Berlin ; Prof. W. 

 Kowalevsky, of Moscow; Dr. K. Martin, of Leyden. 



July 25. — Dr. Maxwell T. Masters, of London. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPmA. 369 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



December 1, 1881, to December 1, 1882. 



Mammals. — Dr. Thomas Biddle. Mounted specimen of Ornithorhynchus 



anatinus, Australia 

 Dr. H. C. Eckstein, U. S. N. Skull and tusks of Odobre/iiix rosmarus, Spitz- 



bergen. 

 Jos. Jeanes, Mounted skeleton of domestic hog. 

 Dr. .Joseph Leidy, Hesperomys leiicopus, N. J. 

 P. Renter. Foetus of horse. 



A. S. Sweeten. Fungus parasite on young rat. 

 G. & A. Ulrich. Mouse (monstrosity). 



James F. Wood, through E. M. Aaron. Female human skeleton. Cooper's Pt., 



N. J. 

 W. S. Vaux. Two Indian skulls, Hamilton Co., Ohio. 

 Birds. — Phila. Zool. Society. Polijbonts tharus. S. A. Porphyria melanotus, 



Australia. Penelope pileata. Brazil. 

 Dr. H. C. Eckstein, Skins of La nis tridactylus, Falmuriis g'acialis and Somateria 



V. nigra with nest and three eggs, Spitzbergen. 



B. H. King. Tyraimus carolinensis, Calhoun, Ga 



Ophidians, Reptiles and Fishes. — Phila. Zool. Society. Python moluris (2 speci- 

 mens), India. 

 A A. Alexander, ffeloderma horridum, Arizona. 

 Dr. Geo. W. Lawrence. Double-headed snake, Hot Springs, Ark. 

 T. R. Peale. Pseudemys rvgosa. Rehoboth, Del. 



C. H. Townsend. Menopoma alleghaniense. Pa. 



Mrs. M. A. Haldeman. Beak of Pristis, Essequebo River, Demerara. 



Dr. W, N. Whitney. Hippocampus, Ostracion and lower jaw of Cestracion, 

 Japan. 



Articulates. — W Y. Heberton. Limulus polyphemus. Cape May Point, N. J. 



Jos. Jeanes. S'xtpen species crustaceans, San Diego, Cal. 



Mrs. M. T Keemhl(S. Two cases of insects. Brazil. 



Dr. Joseph Leidy. Balanus balanoides, Bass Rocks, Gloucester, Mass. 



Dr. Joseph Wilson. Galls on cultivated erapevine. 



W. N. Lockington. Astacus nigrescens, Cal. 



Maria .1. Moss. Mantis Carolina, Washington, D. C. 



MoUusks. — Arango, R. Thirteen species of land shells from Cuba. 



Barber, E. A. Fourteen species of land and fresh-water shells from Colo- 

 rado. Helix strigosa. H. fulva, H. suppressa, H. pulchella, H. striatella, 

 Sphxrium solidulum, Pisidium virginicum, Physa heterostrnpha, Planorhis parvis, 

 Limnsea crrperata. Pupa Blandi, P. Rowelli, Vitrtna P/eifferi a,nd Ancylus. 



Beddome, C. E. 128 species of Tasmanian marine shells, mostly new to the 

 Academy's Collection, and recently described by Kev. J. E. Tenison-Woods. 



Bland, Thomas. Nine species of land shells from various localities. 



Brazier, John. • Valuta marmorata, V. punctata, V. Ellioli. V. Xorrisi, Bulimus 

 Rossiteri (types), Cyprxa Bregeriana, C. quadrimaciilata, C. stolidn, C. Walkeri, 

 Miirex Angasi; twenty-five species, mostly marine shells, from various 

 localities; forty-eight species and varieties of marine shells from Australia. 



Brown, J, J. Four species of marine shells from Honduras. 



Bush. Mrs. A. E. Pecten monotimeris Con., Cal. 17 species of land, fresh- 

 water and marine shells, from various localities. 



Bush, Mrs. A. E. Nine species of land and fresh-water shells from Cali- 

 fornia. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Clark, T. W. B. Martesia cuneiformis, Chesapeake Bay, Md. 



Conchological Section. 221 species of shells, all new to the collection, pur- 

 chased ; Glass models of Eledone moschatus, Doris debilis, Doriopsis clavulata, 

 and Flahellina janlhina. 



Coulter, Prof. J. M. Two specimens of Hippopus maculatus. 



Cox, Dr. J. C. Thirty-four species of marine shells from Australia ; Nesera 

 latisulcata, N. S. Wales. 



Forbes, J. A. Planorhis exacutus, Illinois. 



Ford, John. Natica hero.s and N'. duplicata, Newport, R I. ; Clea cochlea. Sand- 

 wich Islands ; Cy;?ra?a/te/yoZa, Singapore; Casidularuffata, Australia.; Ci/priea 

 lurida (abnormal) ; Bulimus Binneyanus Pfr., Peru. 



Ilartman, Dr. W. D. Auricula (sp.), Japan; Vitrina Thomsoni and Neritina 

 pulligera, Australia ; Physa osculans. Helix slrigosa, from N. Mexico • Bulimus 

 loyaltyensis, Loyalty Isl. 



Hutton, Prof. F. W. Sixteen species (types) of marine shells from N. Zealand. 



James, Jos. F. Limax maximus, Cincinnati, 0. 



Jeanes, Jos. Twenty-eight species of marine shells from California ; thirty- 

 three species of marine shells, San Diego, Cal. 



Keehml^, Mrs. M. T. Three eggs of Bulimus ovaius, from Brazil. 



Latchford, F. R. Vertiyo ovata Say; Amnicola decisa Hald., Quebec, Can.; 

 Unio ventricosus, Ottawa River, Ontario. 



Lawrence, Dr. Geo. W. Goniobasis symmetrica Hald., N. Carolina. 



Leidy, Dr. Jos. five specimens of Solen ensis (with animal), Atlantic City, N. 

 J. ; Purpura lapillus, Litiorina littorea, Bass Rock, Gloucester Co., Mass. 



Orcutt, C. R. Pupa hordeacea, San Diego, Cal. ; six species of shells, San 

 Diego, Cal. ; Murex trialatus, Acmeea patina, Chiton pseudodenticua, Physa 

 distinguenda, Lymniea Adelinx, Succinea Oregon ensis ; five species of shells, 

 San Diego, Cal. 



Potts, Edw. Sphierium seciiris. Prime, N. J. 



Ryder, J. A. Egg- cases of Buccinum undatum, Limax maximus (dissection), 

 Ostnea virginica (yearling). Oslrsea edu/is. 



Spinner, Hon. F. E. Area floridana and A. amerieana, Florida; Fusus carica 

 and var. eliceans, Area floridana, Florida. 



Streng, L. H. Nine species of fresh-water shells; Anodonta imbricata, A. 

 imbecilis, A. modesta, A. ovata, A. subyibbosa, A. Iloughtonensis, A. Benedictii, 

 Unio ventricosus and Succinea Higginsi, from Michigan. 



Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Ten glass models of MoUusca; Tremoctopus violaeeus, 

 Verania sieula, Helix pomatia (dissected), Clionopsis Krohnii, Tiedemannia 

 neapolitana (development), Lophocercus viridis, Parmarion papillaris, Daade- 

 bardia rufa, Parmacella valenciennesi and Vaginulus Moreleti; Goniobasis 

 virginica, Mt. Vernon, Va. 



Wetherby, Prof. A. G. Eleven species of land and fresh-water shells, N. 

 Carolina; also Helix alternuta (ribbed variety), //. Sayi (var. chilhoweensis), 

 Tennessee ; Planorbis glabratus and Physa gyrina, Florida ; seven species of 

 land and fresh-water shells from Miami Co., Florida. 



Whitney, Dr. W. N. Six species of marine shells from Japan ; ten species of 

 marine shells from YenosLima, Japan. 



Willcox, Jos. Cyrena carolinensis, Succinea ovalis and Helix septemvolva, Fla. ; 

 Unio luteolus, Oneida Lake, N. Y. ; Unio eomplanalus Sol., Ontario; U. 

 complanatus Sol., Oneida Lake, N. Y., and U. rectus Lam., Oneida Lake, 

 N. Y. 



Echinodermala. — Jos. Jeanes. Strongilocentrotus purpuratus, S. franciscanus, 

 Toxopneustex semituberculatus, Echinarachnius excentricus, Centrostephanus coro- 

 natus, Diadema (sp.), Ophiura panamensis, Ophiolhrix spiculata, Ophiplocus 

 esmarki, San Diego, Cal. 



W. N. Lockington. Echinarachnius excentricus, Asterias irqualis, Ophiura pana- 

 jnensis and Astropecten (sp.), Cal. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Stl 



Dr. W. N. Whitney. Three species of Echinoderms, Japan. 



delentercita, etc. — Jos. Jeanes. Astropecten stellatus, Asterias capitata, Asterias 



(sp.), Paiiria [Asterias) miniata, Scylaster (sp.), Slylatula elongata, San Diego, 



Ca[. 

 Miss Drysdale. Actinia rapiforjnis, Atlantic City, N. J 

 Edw. Potts. Alci/onidium ramosum on Stones' Inlet, Atlantic City, N. J., and 



Pluviatella vesicularis. 

 Rev. E. W. Lyle. IFyalonema mirabilis, Japan. 

 Joseph Willcox. Sponge. Florida. 

 Vertebrate Fossils. — Late Wm. M. Gabb. Seven species of reptiles and fishes, 



fiom the cretaceous of Kansas. 

 E. Florence. Tooth of Oxi/r/iina, Central Australia. 

 Rev. S. H. Ligbthipe. Fragments of jaw of gavial, from the cretaceous marl 



of Burlington Co., N. J. 

 W. S. Vaux. Two molars of Mastodon amerieanus, Dick's Creek, Butler Co.. 



Ohio. Three molars of Elephas primigenius and lower incisor of Hippopotamus 



amphibius. 

 Invertebrate Fossih. — Dr. H. C. Eckstein. Carboniferous Limestone, containing 



Productits semistriatus Martin, P. horridus, Aviculopecten and Spirifer, Green 



Harbor, Spitzbergen. 

 Joseph Jeanes. Chione fluctifraga, Chione succincta, Pecten sequisulcatus, Pecten 



(Janira) dentata, Lucina Nuttalli, Lucina, sp., Scalaria, sp. ; Acervularia 



Davidsoni, Niagara Group. 

 Dr. I. Lea. Panopsea amertcana, miocene of Maryland; As^trsea, miocene of 



Va. ; Corals and bryozoan earth from the greensand. Long Branch, N. J. 

 Dr. Joseph Wilson. Crinoidal limestone and Lilhostrotion canadenae from the 



Burlington limestone, Burlington, Iowa. 

 Archipology. — George C. Henvzey. Arrow-head, Penssgrove, Salem Co., N. J. 

 Dr. Harry Skinner. Arrow-point, Fairmount Park, Phila. 

 Plants. — Wm. M. Canby. Section and part of trunk of Alnits maritima Muhl. ; 



nine hundred and seventy-one species plants from Europe, Africa, Asia and 



Australia. 

 Thos. Meehan. Forty-two species of Acacia. Fruit of Diospyros kaki and of 



Ch/donia japonica. Cones of Pinus densiflora and Pimis Bungeana , natives of 



Japan. Thirty-five species of Cactacetc, from Arizona and southern Califor- 

 nia ; fourteen species of miscellaneous plants from Western N. Am. 

 Isaac C Martindale. Ellis's North American Fungi, centuries VIII and IX; 



twenty-nine species of plants from Europe, Australia and N. America. 

 Baron Ferdinand Miiller, of Melbourne, Australia. Two hundred and eighty- 

 four selected species of Australian plants, mostly new to the Herbarium. 

 John Tatum, of Woodbury, N. J. Section of stem of an old and intertwined 



Wistaria Sinensis. 

 Hugh D. Vail. Fine specimen of Echinocactus Wislizeni Engelm., from vicinity 



of "Total Wreck" Mine, Arizona. 

 Dr. A. Gray, of Cambridge, Mass. A second collection (seventy-one species) 



of plants from Kuram Valley, Afghanistan, made by Major J. E. T. Aitcheson, 



of British Army, in 1880. Also nine hundred and fifteen species plants from 



China, Japan, Formosa, Australia, Mexico and Texas. 

 Charles F. Parker. Forty-three species of N. American Ranunculacea; ; also 



eleven species of other N. American plants, including three type specimens 



of Austin's new species. 

 George E. Davenport, Boston, ^fass. Nine species of ferns collected in 



Unalaska, in 1881, by L. M. Turner. 

 Charles E. Smith. Specimens of the rare Corema Conradii Torr,, male and 



female plants from Shawangunk Mts., Ulster Co., N. Y. 

 Aubrey H. Smith. Specimens of the same — male and female plants of spring 



and fall growth, from same locality, and of Empetrum nigrum, from Island of 



Mt. Desert, Maine. 




3T2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



S. B. Buckley, Austin, Texas. Xymphiea ampla D. C, from Lampaza Springs, 

 Mexico. 



J. G. Lemmon, Oakland, Cal. Cones of Pinus Arizonica Engelm., and of Finns 

 Chihuahimna Engelm.. from Arizona. 



Horace .J. Smith, St. Barbara, Cal. Casuarina quadrivalvii, an Australian species, 

 cultivated in California. 



F. C. Bell, Phila. Photograph of some Hymenocetous Fungus, from one hundred 

 and fifty yards depth in Miller's Colliery. Phoenix Park, Schuylkill Co., Pa. 



Charles S. Sargent, Forestry Department of U. S. Census. Fifty-four species 

 shrubs and trees mostly from Western N. America, and Cones of eight species 

 of Conifers from Oregon. 



Thomas Bland, N. Y. Specimen of " Dagger Film," prepared from the inner 

 leaves of the Dagger Plant, or Yucca aloifolia; used by ladies in Jamaica for 

 making artificial flowers, and for water color painting. 



F. L. Scribner. Six species grasses, from Washington Terr, and California. 



B. D. VI. L^ngdon, Mobile, Ala. Immature Cones of Araucaria imbricata 

 Pavon, native of Chili, cultivated at Mobi'e. 



J. M. Hutchings, Yosemite, California. Specimen of Sarco'hs sanguinea Torr. 

 in fruit, a'd of Plerospora andromedea Nutt, both from California. 



Dr. G. W. Lawrence. Seed vessels of Oenothera triloba Nutt, from Hot Springs, 

 Arkansas. 



John H. Redfield. Six hundred and seventy-seven species of N. American 

 plants, mostly from Florida, Arizona, Washington Terr., southern Califor- 

 nia, Texas, and the border provinces of Mexico. 



Minerals i— Dr. W. D, Hartman. Aragonite, Birmingham Serpentine Quarries, 

 Chester Co., Pa. 



Dr. H. C. Eckstein. Bituminous Coal, Green Harbor, Spitzbergen. 



The late Wm. M. Gabb. Native gold in magnetic sand, St. Domingo. 



H. C Lewis. Phytocolhte, Scranton, Pa.; Helvite, Amelia Co., Va. 



Dr. Geo. W. Lawrence. Mountain leather, Salina Co., Ark. 



Rev. S. H. Lighthipe, Fuller's earth, from the marl. Pemberton. N. J. 



Dr. Jos. Leidy. White Tourmaline in limestone, De Kalb, St. Lawrence Co., 

 N. Y. ; Triphylite and Amblygonite. Mt. Mica. Paris, Me. ; Rubellite, by 

 decomposition passing into Steatite, Mt Mica, Me. ; Cookeite with Steatite, 

 Mt. Mica, Paris, Me.; Tourmaline passing into Lepidol'te, Tourmaline in 

 Lepidolite, Rubellite, Decomposed Rubellite. Mt Mica. Paris, Me. 



Theo. D. Rand. Arksutile, Hagemannite, Ivigtut, Greenland ; Uydrocuprite, 

 Lebanon, Pa. ; Limonite from Serpentine, Ferruginous Quartz from Serpen- 

 tine, near Newtown Square, Del. Co., Pa, 



W. W. Jeffries. Serpentine with Marmolite, Brinton's Quarry, Chester Co., Pa. 



W. L. Mactier. Anthracite Nodules, Luzerne Co., Pa. 



Dr. Isaac Lea. AUanite and Zircon, Yellow Springs, Chester Cf",, Pa. 



Jos. Willcox. Limonite altered from Serpentine, Middletbwn, Del. Co., Pa. 



E. ri. Reinhold. Copiapite, Mahanoy City, Pa. 



Mrs. M. A. Haldeman Catlinite, Head of Pipestone Creek, S. W. Minn. 



Wm. S. Vaux. Fine specimens of crystals of Calcite, of Analcime, Datholite 

 and Calcite, Bergen Hill, N. J, ; Crocoite and Pyromorphite, Wheatley Mine, 

 Phoenixville. Pa. ; Prehnite with Datholite and Pyrite, Bergen Hill, N. J ; 

 Rubellite and Lepidolite in quartz, Mt. Mica, Me. ; Gypsum, Monte Doneto, 

 Bologna. Italy; Idocrase, Monte Somma, Vesuvius; Crystals of native sul- 

 phur, Girgenti, Sicily. 



Mrs.S. L. Oberholtzer. Graphite (3 specimens), Chester Springs, Chester Co., Pa. 



E P. Oberholtzer. Magnetite (3 specimens). Warwick, Chester Co., Pa. 



Vickers Oberholtzer. Hematite, Pikeland Mine, Chester Co., Pa. 



Jos. Jeane?. Meteoric iron, Cohahuila, Mexico; Glaucodot, Tunaberg, Swe- 

 den; Nephrite (Jade), Torrent de Arnotte, Alibert, Siberia; Large crystal 



' Minerals new to the collection in italics. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPmA. 373 



of quartz, Mt. St. Gothard, Switzerland ; Chiastolite, Lancaster, Mass, ; Al- 

 lanite. Edenville, N. Y ; Pyromorphite, Ems, Nassau, Germany ; Scheelite 

 and Fluorite. Fiirstenberg, Saxony; jErinite, Arragon, Spain; Walchowite 

 Walchow, Moravia; Lignite, Redwitz, Bavaria; Lignite, Germany; Lignite 

 with Retinite, Grimma, Saxony ; Bast Coal, Wettersau, Rhein-Pfalz; Obsidian 

 (2 specimens). New Zealand and Island of Lipari, Medt. ; Wood Opal (2 

 specimens), Nevada Co., Cal. ; Tourmaline, near Lebanon, N. H. ; Pyroxene 

 (2 specimens), De Kalb, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; Chlorite, pseud, after 

 Garnet, Spurr Mt. Mine, Mich.; Calcite incrustation, Clermont, France; 

 Scapolite, Bob Lake, Canada. 

 J. AL Hartman. Native gold in quartz, Venezuela ; Native gold in quartz, 

 Arizona ; Native gold in quartz, N. C. ; Native silver in quartz (3 speci- 

 mens), Mexico : Native capillary silver in quariz. Mexico; Crj'stallized 

 copper. Lake Superior, Mich.; Ore Knob copper, N. C. ; Dendritic copper, 

 N. C. ; Diopside, Garnet and Chlorite, Piedment, Ala. : Coccoliie, Amity, N. 

 Y. ; Seybertite, Amity. N. Y. ; Epidote, Tyrol ; Emerald, Bogota; Labra- 

 dorite, Labrador; Rutile, Macon Co., Ga. ; Orthoclase (Amazon Stone). El 

 Paso, Col. ; Calcite, Guanajuato, Mexico ; Calcite, ^lineral Point, AVis. ; 

 Calcite, Lake Superior, Mich.; Calcite, loc ? ; Sulphur, Lake Co., Cal.; 

 Sulphur, Cal. ; Graphite, Ceylon; Graphite, Ticonderoga, N. Y. ; Graphite, 

 Brockville, Canada; Sphalerite (Cleiophane), 3 specimens. Franklin, N. J.; 

 Galenite, Japan ; Galenite, Mine La Motte, Missouri : Cinnabar, Guadaloupe, 

 Cal. ; Wulfenite, Germany ? ; Wulfenite, Nevada ; Heliotrope, India ; Cal- 

 cite, Rossie, N. Y. ; Calcite and Copper, Lake Sup , Mich. : Amethyst, 

 coated with Pyrite, Lake Sup., Mich, ; Calamine (2 specimens), Franklin, 

 N. J. ; Halite (2 specimens), Colorado River, Arizona ; Byssolite, Chester 

 Co., Pa. : Ripidolite, Chester Co , Pa, ; Moss Agate. Colorado ; Ninepolished 

 Agates, Paraguay ; Six crystals of Spinel, Amity, N. Y. ; Limonite (2 speci- 

 mens), Durham, Pa, ; Limonite, Fox Hill, Shenandoah, Va. ; Limonite shale, 

 near Fogelsville, Pa. ; Limonite (Kidney ore). Lake Superior, Mich. : Limo- 

 nite, (5 specimens), from Negaunee, Mich. ; Brown Tourmaline, Gouverneur, 

 N. Y. ; Apophyllite crystal, Bergen Hill, N. J. ; Quartz, Japan; Quartz, 

 Lancaster Co., Pa. ; Smoky Quartz, El Paso, Col. ; Quartz and Specular He- 

 matite, Keswick, England ; Yellow Quartz, Sardonyx, Chalcedony, Chalce- 

 dony artificially colored, Alps; Fluorite, Arizona; Hematite, Saxony; 

 Hematite, England : Specular Hematite, Elba; Specular Hematite and Quartz, 

 Elba; Ditto., Antwerp, N. Y, ; Ditto. (Slickensides), Byram Mine, N. J. ; 

 Ditto., ditto., Negaunee, Mich. ; Hematite Geode, Col. ; Geodes of Calcite in 

 Hematite, Rockwood, Tenn. ; Hematite, pseud, of Calamite, Sbawnee, Ohio ; 

 Hematite, Iron Mt., Mo. ; Lenticular Hematite, Frankstown, Pa. : Micaceous 

 Hematite, from Dillsburg, Pa., Rossie, N. Y., Negaunee. Mich , and Va. ; 

 Millerile in Hematite, Antwerp, N. Y. ; Giithite, Pike's Peak, Col, ; Actino- 

 lite, Sweden ; Fahlunite in Talc, Fahlun, Sweden ; Analcite and Mesotype, 

 Nova Scotia ; Natrolite, Bergen Hill, N. J. ; Azurite, Cornwall, Pa ; Talc, 

 Fowler. N. Y, ; Allanite, Sweden: Hornblende, Bohemia; Cassiterite, 

 Australia; Galenite from Colorado, Utah, Arizona, and Sweden; Pyrite, 

 Amboy, N. J., Roxbury, Conn.; CJialcopyrite, Rossie, N. Y., and 

 Nevada Co., Cal. ; Zincite and Franklinite, Franklin, N. J. ; Zincite and 

 Willemite, Franklin, N. J. ; Zincite Foliated, Franklin, N. J. ; Sapphire, 

 Sparta, N. J.; Corundum, Ala. ; Ilmenite, Amity, N. Y. • Magnetite from 

 Durham, Pa., Lake Superior, Colorado and Mexico; Wood Agate, Col. ; 

 Augite and Calcite, Amity, N. Y.; Tremolite var. (Hexagonite), St. Lawrence 

 Co., N. Y. ; Mountain Leather, Sweden ; Pargasite, N. Y. ; Roepperite, 

 Franklin, N. J. ; Willemite and Franklinite, Franklin, N. J ; Garnets from 

 Sweden, N. J., and Pa.; Tourmaline in Calcite, Sweden; Sphene, Pectolite, 

 N. J. ; Sepiolite, Chester Co., Pa. ; Williamsite, Chester, Pa.; Kaolinite, 

 Japan ; Wavellite, Ark.; Barite from French Broad, N. C, De Kalb Co., Ga., 

 Missouri, and Saxony; Fibrous Gypsum, Col.; Calcite, Sweden; Siderite, 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882, 



Conn.; Aragonite, Col., and Mo.; Malachite, Japan ; Chalcocite, pseud, after 

 AVood, Texas ; Manginite. Lake Superior, Mich. ; Serpentine (Marmolite), 

 Bergtn Hill, N. J. : IVpbroite, Willemite and Franklinile, Franklin, N. J. ; 

 Ludtvigiie, Moravicza, Bannat, Siederite in Quartz, Greenland ; Obsidian 

 (Pele's Hair) (artificial). Durham, Pa. ; Orpiment (artiticial), Galenite, 

 Mine La Mctte, Mo., and from Hlinois ; Chalcopyrite, Japan; Marcasite, 

 Mine La Motte, Mo.; Cuprite, New Mexico; Menaccanite (Iserine), Bohemia; 

 Minium (artificial). Sala, Sweden ; Pyrolusite, Franklin. N. J. ; _Opal, San 

 Diego, Cal. ; Sahlite, Sala, Sweden ; Pseud, of Chlorite after Garnet, Mich.; 

 Phlogopite, Sterling, N. J., and Amity, N. V.; Orthoclase (Lennilite) Lenni, 

 Del. Co., Pa. : Tourmaline in ^luscovite, Paris, Me, ; Chlorastrolite, Lake 

 Superior; Stilbite, ^ova Scotia: Serpentine and Chrysolite, Westville, N. 

 J.; Kaolinite, N. J.; JeflFerisite, Chester Co., Pa.; Margariie, Chester, Mass.; 

 Durangite, Durango, ^Mexico ; Anglesite and Galenite, Arizona; Calcite 

 (Spartaite), Sparta, N. J : Oolite, Utah ; Calcareous Tufa. Japan ; Dolomite 

 on Quartz, Mexico ; Bituminous Calcite. Sweden ; Smithsonite, Mineral 

 Point, Wis. ; Strontianite, Georgia ; Cerussite, Mexico ; H3droiDagnesite on 

 Serpentine, Hoboken, N. J.; Azurite, Nevada; AVillemite (Troiistite), 

 Franklin, N. J.; Gieseckite, Diana, N Y.; Stalactite (Chalcedony), Floris- 

 sante. Col ; Agalmatolite, Serpentine, Bossie. N Y. 



In exchange. Dyscrasite, Hartz Mts. ; Clausthaliie, Tilkesode, flartz ; Ala- 

 bandite, Hagyag, Transylvania ; Breithauptite, Andreasberg, Hartz ; Arile, 

 Pyrenees; Embolite, Silver City, N. Mexico; Jacohsite, Jacobsberg, Sweden ; 

 Fulgurites, Thompson, Carroll Co., 111. ; Amphibole (Ecienile), Edenville, 

 N. Y. ; Arfvedsonite, Greenland; Forsterite (Boltonite). Bolton, Mass.; Geh- 

 lenite. Mt. Monzoni ; Keilhauite, Snarum, Sweden ; Catapleiite and Astro- 

 phyllite, Norway; Faujasitc, Baden; Antillite, Cuba; Sipylile, Amherst 

 Co., Va ; Diaban/ife, Bergen Hill, N J.; CAa/cosfrferiYc, Cornwall, England ; 

 Arseniostderite, France; Borikite. Bohemia; Bindheimile (Bleinierite), Eng- 

 land; Iloivliie from Gypsum, Hants, N. S. ; M'urwickite, Edenville. N. Y. ; 

 Jiilbneriie, Mammoth District, Nevada ; Cuproscheelile, La Paz, Cal. : Cya- 

 notrichite. Cape Garonne, France; Dawsonite, Montreal, Canada; Schraufite, 

 Germany ; Natrolite and three specimens of Apophyllite, Bergen Hill, N. J.; 

 White Garnet. Hull, Quebec, Canada. 



Rocks — Dr. H. C. Eckstein. Coal, with associated rocks, Green Harbor, Spitz- 

 bergen ; Fossiliferous rock. Concretion Quartz, Green Harbor, Spitzbergen ; 

 Quartz, Mica-schist and Gneiss, Hammerfest, Norway. 



E. S. Reinhold. Diorite (Napoleonite). American River, Cal. 



Theo. D. Rand. Steatite with cavities formerly containing pseudomorphs of 

 Serpentine after Staurolite, near Merion Square, Montgomery Co., Pa. ; 

 four lead casts of pseudomorphs of Serpentine after Staurolite; seven Rock 

 specimens from neighborhood of Philadelphia ; Actinolite, Wissahickon 

 Creek, Phila ; Actinolite decomposing, Wissahickon Crfeek, Phila. 



Dr. Jos. Leidy. Twelve specimens showing natural jointed fracture, from the 

 Potsdam Smdstone, South Mountain, near Wernerville, Backs Co., Pa. ; 

 Black Horustone pebble, with rhombs of Calcite, from the Delaware shore, 

 Easton, Pa. ; Granitoid pebbles, Quartz and Mica, from the gravel on the 

 Almshouse ground, Phila. ; Pebbles of Quartzite, from the gravel, Phila. ; 

 Pebble simulating a stone hammer, from the gravel of the University ground, 

 V\'. Phila. ; Probable Coprolite, Phosphate beds of Ashley River, S. C. 



Dr. W. N. Whitney. Lava, Japan. 



A. H. Smith. Rhomboidal pebble, from the gravel near Tinicum, Delaware 

 Co., Pa. 



A. Kollner. Ringing rock, Del. Narrows, Bucks Co., Pa. ; Rock containing 

 Garnets, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 



W. H. Harned. Calcareous Tufa with imbedded leaves, near Natural Bridge, Va. 



J. M. Hartman. Serpentine and Chrysolite, Westville, N. J.; Serpentine, Del. 

 Co , Pa.; Unakyte, French Broad, N. C; Tremolite, Chile; Calcareous nodule. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



December 6, 1881, to December 26, 1882. 



Abbot, H. Experiments and investigations to develop a system of submarine 

 mines for defending the harbors of the United States- Engineer 

 Corps, U. S. A. 

 Abbott, C. C. Primitive industry. The Author. 

 Allison, L. C. Discovery of Tripoli near St. John. The Author. 

 Angelin, N. P. Geologisk Ofversigts-Karta iifver Skiine. F. V. Hayden. 

 Balfour, F. M. Treatise on comparative embryology. II. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Baillon, M. H. Dictionaire de Botanique, 14me Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Natural history of plants. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ball, V. Manual of the Geology of India. III. Economic Geology. Geo- 

 logical Survey of India. 

 Baltzer, A. Beitriige zur geologischen Karte der Schweiz, 20e Lief. Die 

 mechanische Contact von Gneiss und Kalk im Berner-Oberland. With 

 Atlas, 1880. F. V. Hayden. 

 Baraga, R. R., Bishop. A dictionary of the Otchipwe language, explained in 



English. II. Otchipwe-English. F. V. Hayden. 

 Barber, E. A. Pueblo pottery. 



Antiquity of the tobacco-pipe in Europe. Pt. 2. 

 Catalogue of the collection of tobacco-pipes. 

 Mound pipes. The Author. 

 Barrande, J. Defense des Colonies. V. 



Du maintien^de la nomenclature ^tablie par M. Murchisou. 

 Acephales. Etudes locales et comparatives. The Author. 

 Bauerroan, H. Textbook of systematic mineralogy, 1881. The Author. 

 Berg, Carlos. Contribuciones al estudio de las Cicadidse de la Republica 

 Argentina y paises limitrofes. 

 Sinonimia y descripcion de algunos hemipteros de Chile del Brasil y de 



Bolivia. 

 Farago lepidopterologica. The Author. 

 Bertrand, E. Note sur I'andalousite du Bresil. 



De I'application du microscope a I'etude de la min^ralogie. 

 Propri^tes optiques de la Brochantite. 



Sur les differences entre les proprietes optiques de corps crystallides 

 birefringents et celles que peuveni presenter les corps monorefringeuts. 

 Proprietes optiques de la Beudantite et de la pharmacosiderite. 

 Sur les cristaux pseudo-cubiques. 

 Etude optique des differents mineraux. 



De I'application du microscope a I'etude de la min^ralogie. 

 Sur les propriet6s optiques des corps cristallises presentant la forme 



spheroHthique. 

 Sur la leadhillite de Matlock. G. Vaux. 

 Bibliographie geologique et paleontologique de I'ltalie, 1881. F. V. Hayden. 

 Bjorling, E. G. Fonctions elliptiques. 'The Westeras Gymnasium. 

 Board of Health of the State of Louisiana. Annual report. 1881. The Board. 

 Bodleian Library. Donations to, 1881. The University of Oxford. 

 Boek, .\xel. De Skandinaviske af arktiske Amphiopoder. Andet Hefte. 



University of Norway. 

 Bonpland, A. and A. Humboldt. Nova genera et species plantarum quas in 

 peregrinatione ad plagan i^quinoctialem orbis novi coUegerunt descrip- 

 serunt. 7 vols, text and 7 vols, atlas. Jos. Jeanes. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Borre, A. P. de. Description d'une nouvelle espece de Buprestide, da genre 

 Slernocera. 

 Sur les metamorphoses des Rhagium. 



Du pen de valeur du caractere sur lequel a ete etabli le genre ou sous- 

 genre Rhombonyx. 

 Sur le Carabus cancellatus et sa vari^te fusus. 



Liste des Crioc4rides recueillies au Bresil par feu Camille van Volxem, 

 suivie de la description de douze nouvelles especes Americaines de cette 

 tribu. The Author. 

 Eoulenger. G. A. Catalogue of the Batrachia salientia S. eoaudatain the collec- 

 tion of the British Museum. 2d Ed. Trustees of the British Museum. 

 Boucard, A. Un birds collected in Costa Rica, 



Notes on some coleoptera of the genus Plusiotis. The Author. 

 Boue, A. Autobiographic du. 



Bowerbank, J. S. Monograph of the British Spongiadae. IV. Wilson Fund. 

 Brazier, J. Description of a new Bulimus from New Caledonia. 

 Helix pulchella and H. cellaria of Mueller, from Australia. 

 List of Cyprjea found in ^loreton Bay, Queensland. 

 Mote on a specimen of malformed Cypraea. 

 Remarks on Megapodius Brazieri. 



List of marine shells, collected on Fitzroy Island, North Coast of Australia. 

 A new variety of Bulimus Caledonicus. 

 Recent mollusca, found in Port Jackson, etc. 

 Localit^s des Isles Australiennes, etc. The Author. 

 Breidler, J., and J. B. Forster. Die Laubmoosflora von Oesterreich-Ungara. 



Royal Zoologico-botanical Society of Vienna. 

 Brighton Health Congress. Transactions, 1881. The Mayor of Brighton. 

 British Museum. Catalogue of birds of the. VI. The Trustees. 

 Britton, N. L. Notes for botanists who have the preliminary catalogue of the 



flora of New Jersey. The Author. 

 Brogger. W. C. Die silurischen Etagen 2 und 3 im Kristianiagebiet und auf 



Eker. University of Norway. 

 Bronn, H. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. 5er Bd., II Abth., 



4-8 Lief. ; 6er Bd., Ill Abth., 22-34 Lief. 

 Brooks W. K. Handbook of invertebrate zoology. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Brous, H. A. Notes on the habits of some western snaTies. The Author. 

 Brown, Thos. Report of Inspector of Mines for Allegheny and Garrett 



Counties, 1881. The Author. 

 Bruhl, C. B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas, 23, 24, 25 Lief. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Brunner, Prof. Mineralogy of Berks, 9th paper. The Author. 

 Bucquoy, E., et Ph. Dautzenberg. Les mollusques marins du Roussillon. 



Fasc. ler. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bureau of Education. Circulars of information, Nos. 4, 5 and 6, 1881 ; No. 1, 



1882 Department of the Interior. 

 Bureau of Ethnology. First annual report, 1879-80. The Smithsonian 



Institution. 

 Burmeister, H. Description physique de la Republique Argentine. Tomes 1, 

 2, 3 and T. 0, Pt. 1. Atlas le & 2e Livr. Premier section, Vues pitto- 

 resques. The Author. 

 Buxton, E. N. The A. B. C. of free trade. Cobden Club. 

 Cameron, P. Monograph of the British Phytophagus Ilymenoptera. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Carpmael, C. Report of the Meteorological service of the Dominion of Canada. 



The Author 

 Caswell, E. T. Reform in medical education the aim of the Academy. The 

 Author. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Caton, J. D. The antelope and deer of America. Revised Ed. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Census Bulletin, No. 272. Department of the Interior. 



Chambers, V. T. Anienuaj and triphi of lepidopterous larvje. The Author. 

 Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department. Quarterly report of, 

 Dec. ;n, 1881, to June 30, 188-2 

 Annual report, 1881. Treasury Depnrtmpnt. 

 Chief of Engineers, U. S. A. Annual report, 1881, Parts 1, 2 and 3. 



Analytical index to reports of 1866-1879. Engineer Department, U.S. A. 

 Chief of Ordnance. Report of, 1881. War Department. 

 Chief Signal Officer. Annual report, 1879. War Department. 

 City Hospital of the City of Boston. Medical and surgical reports, 3d series, 



. 1882. 18th report. The Editors. 

 City Library Association of the City of Springfield. Annual report, 1882. 



The Association. 

 Cocchi, J. Brevi cenni sui principal! istituto e comitati geologici e sul R. 

 Comitato Geologico d' Italia. 

 Descrizione geologica dell' Isola d' Elba per servire alia carta della 



medesima. 

 Racolta degli Oggetti de' cosi detti Tempi preistorici. G. Vaux. 

 Comas, D.Jaime Almeray. De Monjuich al Papiol al traves de las epocas 

 geologicas. 

 Estudis geologichs sobre la constitucio, origen .... de la Montanya de 

 Montserrat. F. V. Hayden. 

 Commissioner of Agriculture. Annual reports, 1880 and 1881. The Depart- 

 ment of Agriculture. 

 Commission de la Carte geologique de la Belgique. Renaix, Casterl^, Lille, 



H6renthals, St. Nicholas and Tamise. Maps. The Commission. 

 Conference f olaire Internationale, Report sur les actes de la 3me. The Congress. 

 Cooke, J. P., Jr. On two new crystalline compounds of zinc and antimony. 

 The relation between the atomic weights of the chemical elements. 

 G. Vaux. 

 Cope, E. D. Geology and Paleontology. From American Naturalist, August, 

 1882, and October, 1882. 

 Paleontological Bulletin, Nos. 34 and 35. The Author. 



Coquand, H. Etudes supplementaires sur paleontologie Algerienne. F. V. 



Hayden. 

 Cory, C. B. Birds of the Bahama Islands. The Author. 

 Costa, 0. G. Pal^ontologia del Regno di Napoli. I, 1850; II, 1 and 2, 1854- 



56; III, 1857-63; Appendice I, 1866. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Cote est de Patagonie, 1881. F. V. Hayden. 



Cox, J. C. Nomenclature and distribution of the genus Pythia. The Author. 

 Craven, A. E. Genre Sinusigera. The Author. 

 Credner, Hermann. Elemente der Geologie. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Dahll, T. Geologisk Kart over Nordlige Norge. University of Norway. 

 Dall, W. H. List of papers by. The Author. 

 Dana, Edward S. Third appendix to the 5th Ed. of Dana's Mineralogy. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Dana, J. D. The flood of the Connecticut River Valley from the melting of the 



quatenary glacier. 

 On the relation of the so-called " Kames " of the Connecticut River Valley 



to the terrace formation. The Author. 

 Darwin, Chas. The formation of vegetable mould through the action of worms. 



Jos. Jeanes, 

 Daubree, A. Etudes synth^tiques de geologic expdrimentale. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Debey, M. Sur les feuilles querciformes des babies d'Aix-la-Cbapelle. The 



Author. 

 Delmas, J. Excursion dans la chaine des Maures. F. V Hayden. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Department of Agriculture. Special report, Nos. 42—51. Dept. of Agriculture. 

 Department of Mines, Nova Scotia. Report, 1881. The Commissioner. 

 Department of Mines, N. S. W. Annual report, 1881. The Department. 

 Des Cloiseaux, M. Memoire sur une nouvelle localite d'Amblygonite et sur la 



Montebrasite, Geo. Vaux. 

 Deshayes, G. P. Description des animaux sans vert^bres. T. II, expl. des 



planches pp. 57 et seq. and text. T. III. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Dewalque, G. Prodrome d'une description geologique de la Belgique. 2d 



Ed. F. V. Hayden. 

 Dolley, C. S. Bacteria as beneficial and noxious agents. The Author. 

 Dorr, Dalton. Art museums and their uses. The Author. 

 Duncan, G. M. Somewhat about a few medicinal plants of New Brunswick. 



The Author. 

 Dupont, Ed. Sur I'origine des calcaires Devoniens de la Belgique. 



Sur une revendication de priorite. The Author. 

 Ecole national des Mines. Plan des galeries de mineralogie et de geologic. 



G. Vaux. 

 Elliot, D. G. Monograph of the Bucerotida3. Pt. 9. 



Monograph of the Felidse. Pts. 8, 9 and 10. Wilson Fund. 

 Elliot, H. W. U. S. Com. Fish. Seal-Islands of Alaski. Department of the 



Interior. 

 Elliot, W. H. and F. H. Storer. On the impurities of commercial zinc, G. Vaux. 

 Encyclopsfidia Brilannica, 9th ed. Vols. XIII and XIV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Encyklopredie der Naturwissenschaften. le Abth., 25er and 2e Abth. 7 Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Engelmann, G. The genus Isoetes in North America. The Author. 

 Engler, A. Vcrsuch einer Entwicklungsgeschichte der Pflantzenwelt. 2 Th. 



I. V Williamson Fund. 

 Erichson, W. F. Naturgeschichte der Insect en Deutschlands. le Abth. 



Coleoptera, 3er Bd. 2e Abth. le Lief. 6er Bd. le H. Wilson Fund. 

 Falsan A. Notice sur la vie et les travaux de Theophile Ebray. F. V. Hayden. 

 Fatio, V* Faune des vert^bres de la Suisse. IV, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fedtschenko, A. Reise in Turkestan. II, Zool. Th. 13 and 14; Th. Ill, 



Botanik, Th. 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ferguson, T. B. Report of Commissioner of Fisheries of Maryland, 1881. 



J. A. Ryder. 

 Another copy. The Author. 

 Fernandez, Leon. Coleccion de documentos para la historiade Costa Rica. T. I. 



The Author. 

 Financial reform almanack, for 1882. Financial Reform Association. 

 Finley, J. P. Tornado studies for 1882. 



Tornadoes. Their special characteristics and dangers. The Author. 

 Firket, A. Notice sur la Carte de la Production par Commune des Carri^res 



de la Belgique pendant I'annee, 1871. 

 Notice sur la carte de la production, de la consommation et de la circulation 



des minerals de fer, de zinc, de plomb et des pyrites en Belgique pendant 

 , lann^e, 1871. 

 Etude sur les gites metalliferes de la Mine de Landenne et sur la Faille 



Silurienne du Champ d'Oiseaux. F. V. Hayden. 

 Fischer, Paul. Manuel de conchyliologie. Fasc. 3 and 4. The Author. 

 Fischer, 0. Physics of the earth's crust Jos. Jeanes. 

 Fish Commissioners of the State of Connecticut. 16th annual report. The 



Commissioners. 

 Flower, W. H. An introduction to the osteology of the mammalia. 2d Ed. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Forteckning pii Ilandskrifter in Westeras allm. Laroverks Bibliotek. 

 Forestry Bulletin, Nos. 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22. Dep. of Interior. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



Foster, J. W. Pre-historic races of the U. S of America. 5th Ed., 1881. 



Jos. Jeanes. 

 Frazer, Persifor. M^moire sur la geologic de la partie sud-est de la Pennsyl- 

 vania. Proposition donn^es par la faculty. Theses. Lille, 1882. The 



Author. 

 Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery of the City of Liverpool. 



29th annual report. The Trustees. 

 Fries, Elia. Icones seJectoe hymenomycetum nondum delineatorum. II, 1-6. 



Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. 

 Gabelentz, G. v. d. Thai-Kih-Thu, des Tschu-tsi Tafel des Urprinzipes. F. V. 



Hayden. 

 Garbini, A. Apparechio della digestione nel Palaemonetes varians. The 



Author. 

 Gaston, J. M. F. Use of the ecraseur for curing deep-seated fistula in ano. 



The Author. 

 Gaudry, Alb. Les enchainement du monde animal dans les temps geologiques. 



Mammi feres tertiaires. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Geikie, Arch. Geological sketches at home and abroad. 

 Text-book of Geology. Jos. Jeanes. 



Geol'^gical influences which have affected the course of British history. 

 Genth, F. A. Contributions to mineralogy, No. 20. The Author. 

 Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada. Report of progress for 



1879-80. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey. Annual report, 1881. Topographical map of 



part of northern New Jersey. The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of India. Records, Vol. 14. Pts. 2, 3 and 4. Memoirs, 8vo. 



Vol. 18, Pts. 1, 2, 3. Memoirs, 4to. Palseontologia Indica. Series II, 



XI. XIII, 3; Ser. XIII, 1; Ser. XIV, Vol. 1, 3, Fasc. 1. The Survey. 

 Gilpin, Edw. The gold fields of Nova Scotia. The Author. 

 Goeppert, H. R. Arboretum fossile. Sammlung. F. V. Hayden. 

 Gosselet, M. J. Esquisse g^ologique du nord de la France. Ire Fasc. Texte 



^nd Plates. 

 Terrain diluvien de la Valine de la Somme. F. V. Hayden. 

 Gould, John. Birds of Asia. Parts 32 and 33. 

 Birds of New Guinea. Part 12. 

 Supplement to the Trochilidae or Humming Birds. Pts, 1 and 2. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Gozzadini, G. II sepolcreto di Crespellano nel Bolognese. 

 Di un utensiie tratto dalla necropoli Felsinea. 



Di un sepolcri e di un frammento ceramico della Necropoli Felsinea. 

 Note archeologiche per una guida dell'Apennino Bolognese. F. V. Hayden. 

 Grandidier, Alf. Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar. 



Tome XII, XIV and XV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gray, Asa. Contributions to North American botany. The Author. 

 Guiscardi, G. II piperno. G. Vaux. 

 Giinther, A. C. L. G. Gigantic land-tortoises (living and extinct) in the 



collection of the British , Museum, 1877. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Guldberg. C. M. et H. Mohn. Etudes sur les mouvements de 1' atmosphere. 



2me partie. University of Norway. 

 Haeckel, E. Monographic der Medusen. 2erTh. le and 2e Halfte, with Atlas. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hall, Jas. Fossil coal of the Niagara and Upper Helderberg Groups. The 



Author. 

 Harper, G. W. and A. G. Wetherby. Catalogue of the land and fresh-water 



mollusca found in the immediate vicinity of Cincinnati, 0, A. G. 



Wetherby. 



25 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Harrison, W. J. Geology of the counties of England and of North and South 



Wales. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Hartmann. W. D. Species of the genus Partula. The Author. 

 Haswell, Wm. A. The Australian Museum. Catalogue of the Australian 



Stalk- and Sessile-eyed Crustacea. Trustees of the Mnseum. 

 Hauer, Fr. v. and M. Neumayer. Fiihrer zu den Excursionen der deutschen 



geologischen Gesellschaft nach der allgemeinen Versammlung in Wien, 



1877. The Authors. 

 Haughton, Rev. S. , Six lectures on physical geography. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Hautefeuille. M. Etude sur la cristallisation de la silice par la voie seche. 



Geo. Vaux. 

 Hay, G. U. Memorial sketch of Prof. Ch. Fred. Hart. The Author. 

 Heer, 0. Die Insektenfauna der Tertiargebilde von Oeningen und von Radoby 



in Croatien. 1, 2 und 3er Th. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Herbert, S. The camel. The Author. 



Herman, 0. Ungarns Spinnen Fauna. II Bd. Hungarian National Museum. 

 Hermann, L. Handbuch der Physiologic. IV, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 His, W. Anatomic menschlicher Embryonen. II. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hovey, Rev. H. C. Discoveries in western caves. G. Vaux. 

 Hutton, F. W. Contributions to New Zealand Malacology. 



On the New Zealand Hydrobiinse. The Author. 

 Huxley, T. H. Critiques and addresses, 1873. 

 Lay sermons, addresses and reviews, 1880. 

 Science and culture and other essays, 1882. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Inostranzeff, A. Ein neues, ausserstes Glied in der Reihe der amorphen 



Kohlepstoffe. F. V. Hayden. 

 Internationale Fischerei-Ausstellung in Berlin im Jahre 1880. Itj.lianische 



Abtheilung. 

 I petrolii in Italia, 1877. F. V. Hayden. 

 Jackson, B. D. Vegetable technology. Thos. Meehan. 

 Jackson, J. Liste provisoire de bibliographies g^ographiques speciales. F. 



V. Hayden. 

 Jacquin, J. Plantarum rariores Horti Caesarei Schoenbrunnensis. 4 vols., 



1879. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Jan, Prof. Iconographie gen^rale des Ophidiens, 50me Livr. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Jannetaz, E. Guide to the determination of rocks. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Jeffreys, J. Gwynn. On the mollusca procured during the Lightning and 



Porcupine Expeditions, 1868-70. The Author. 

 Johanson, C. H. Odonata Suecife. The Westeras Gymnasium 

 Johnson, A. B. Aberrations of audibility of fog signals. The Author. 

 Jourdan, E. Contribution a I'^tude de lymphorrhagies. F. V. Hayden. 

 Just, L. Botanischer Jahresbericht. VI, le Abth. 2 H.; 2 Abth. 2 und 3 H. 



VII, le Abth. 1 ; 2e Abth. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Karrer, F. Der Boden der Hauptsfadte Europa's. F. V. Hayden. 

 Kiepert, H. Special-Karte des Tiirkischen Armeniens. F. V. Hayden. 

 King, C. First annual report of the U. S. Geological Survey. Department of 



the Interior. 

 Kirby, W. F. List of hymenoptera, with descriptions and figures of the 



typical specimens in the British Museum. Vol. 1, Tenthredinidac and 



Siricidse, 1882. The Trustees. 

 Kjerulf, Theo. Die Geologic des siidlichen und mittleren Norwegens. F. V. 



Hayden. 

 Knapp, F. Die doleritischen Gesteine des Frauenberges bei Scbliichtern in 



Hessen. F. V. Hayden. 

 Kobelt, W. Catalog der Gattung Neptunea. 

 Die mauritanischen Iberus. The Author, 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



Kokscharow, N. v. Materialien zur Mineralogie Russlands. 8er Bd., Bg. 



9-20. I. V. Williamsoa Fund. 

 Koldeway. Die 2e deutsche Nordpolarfahrt, 1867-70. 2er Bd. F. V. 



Hay den, 

 Konnick, L Q. de. Sur quelques ctSphalopodes nouveaux du calcaire carboni- 



fere de I'lrlande. The Author. 

 K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Catalog der Ausstellungsgegenstande bei 



der Wiener Weltausstellung. The Society. 

 Kiinckel d'Herculais, J. Recherches sur lorganisation et le d<5velopmeiit des 



Dipteres. 2me Partie. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lapparent, A. de. Trait6 de geologic. Fasc. 1-6. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Lartet, E. Vie et traveaux de. F. V. Hayden. 



Lawes, J. B., J. H. Gilbert and R. Warington. On the amount and composition 

 of the rain and drainage-waters collected at Rothamsted. The Authors. 

 Lewis, H. C Antiquity and origin of Trenton gravels. 



On a new substance resembling Dopplerite from a peat bog at Scraaton. 

 Note on the aurora of April 16-17, 1882. 

 Mineralogical notes, May and June, 1882. 

 Mineralogical notes, Jan., Feb. and Oct., 1882. The Author. 

 Library Company of Philadelphia, Bulletin, n. s., Nos. 8 and 9. The Directors. 

 Library of the Surgeon General's Office. Index catalogue, vol. 3. War 



Department. 

 Light House Board. Annual report, 1881 and 1882. Treasury Department. 

 Lists of the minerals and fossils selected from the main collection in the Museum 

 of the Mining School at St. Petersburg for exhibition at Philadelphia, 

 1876. G. Vaux. 

 Liverpool Free Public Library. Catalogue of the. The Library Committee. 

 Liversidge, A. List of scientific papers and reports by. The Author. 

 Locard, A. Guide du geologie a la nouvelle Chapelle de Fourviferes. 

 Notice sur Gaspard Michaud sa vie et ses oeuvres. 

 Note sur les pluies de Boue dans la region Lyonnaise. 

 Nouvelles recherches sur les argiles lacustres des terrain quatemaires des 

 environs de Lyon. F. V. Hayden. 

 Loretz, H. Untersuchungen Uber Kalk und Dolomite. I and IL 

 Ueber Schieferung. 

 Ueber Transversalschieferung und verwandt Erscheinungen im thuringi- 



schen Schiefergebirge. 

 Notizen liber Buntsandstein und Muschelkalk in Siid-Thiiringen. 

 Beitrag zur geologischen Kenntniss der cambrisch-phyllitischen Schiefer-' 

 reihe in Thiiringen. The Author. 

 Lubbock, Sir J. Ants, bees and wasps. Jos. Jeanes. 



Lubbock, Rev. R. Observations on the fauna of Norfolk and more particu- 

 larly on the district of the Broads. F. V. Hayden. 

 Lyell, Chas. Students' elements of geology, 3d Ed. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Macagno, L. Provve dimenti contro la fillossera. 



Sull Ispezione ai vigneti della Liguria. The Author. 

 Macpherson, J. Esfudio geologico y petrografico del morte de la Provincia 



de SeviUa. F. V. Hayden. 

 Maderspach, L. Magyarorszig Vasercz-Fekhelyei, 1880. Hungarian National 



Museum. 

 iNIantovani, P. La Piogia di genere caduta a Napoli e la lava dell' eruzione 

 del Vesuvio dell' Aprile 1872. 

 Sulla formazione geologica delle colline presso .\ncona. 

 Un escursione al Vesuvio durante 1' eruzione del 1871. 

 Descrizione geologica della Campagna Rouiaua. G. Vaux. 

 Marion, M. A. F. Application du sulfure de carbone au traitement des vignes 

 phylloxerees. Campagne de 1878 & 4e Annee. F. V. Hayden. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Marschall, F. and A. v. Pelzeln. Ornis Vindobonensis. F. V. Hayden. 

 Marsh, 0. C. The wings of pterodactyles. The Author. 



Martens, E. v. Conchologische Mittheilungen, 1 and 2. I. V. Willamson Fund, 

 Martin, K. and A. Weichmann. Sammlungen des geologischen Reichs Mu- 

 seums in Leiden. I. Beitrage zur Geologie Ost-Asiens und Australiens. 

 F. V. Hayden. 

 Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet, 308-317 Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Martins, C. F. P. de. Flora Brasiliensis, Fasc. 83. Asa Gray. 

 Mason, J. J. Minute structure of the central nervous system of certain 



reptiles and batrachians of America. Series A. The Author. 

 Materiali per la Carta geologica della Svizzera. XVII. Appendice ed Indice. 



F. V. Hayden. 

 Mayer, Chas. Tableau synchronistique des terrain cr^tac6s. Terrains ter- 

 tiaires. Terrain jurassique. 

 Fossiles des terrains tertiaires qui se trouvent au Mus6e federal de Zurich, 

 ler Cahier. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Medley, Geo. W. England under free trade. Cobden Club. 

 Meneghini, G. Della Scuola geologica di Paola Savi. F. V. Hayden. 

 Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York. 61st annual report, 



1881-82. The Directors. 

 Mercantile Library Association, San Francisco. 23d annual report. The 



Trustees. 

 Mercantile Library Company. 59th annual report. The Directors. 

 Meyer, A. B. Ueber hundert funfunddreissig Papua-Schadel von Neu-Guinea 

 und der Insel Mysore. 

 Die Kalangs auf Java. F. V. Hayden. 

 Meyer, A. B. und E. Tiingel. Verzeichniss der Race-Skeleteund Schadel des 

 Dresdner anthropologischen Museums. 

 Anthropologische Mittheilungen liber die Papuas von Neu-Guinea. 

 Neu-Guinea. F. V. Hayden. 



K.Ethnologisches Museum zu Dresden. I. Bilderschriften des Ostindischen 

 Archipels und der SUdsee. The Museum. 

 Mivart, St. G. The Cat., 1881. Jos. Jeanes. 



Moissenet, M. L. Memoire sur un nouveau fluophosphate. G. A'^aux. 

 Moleschott, Jac. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre dea Menschen und der 



Thiere. XIII, 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mongredien, Aug. Pleas for protection examined. Cobden Club, 

 iloore, F. Description of new Indian lepidopterous insects from the collection 

 of the late Mr. W. S. Atkinson. Part II. Heterocera, continued. 

 The Author. 

 Morris, Chas. Organic physics. The Author. 

 Mueller, Ferd. v. On the development of rural industries. 



Eucalyptographia. Decades 1, 3, 4, 7 and 8. The Author. 

 MUller, Jos. Gasteropoden der Aachener Kreide. 



Beitrage zur Petrefactenkunde der Aachener Kreide. 



Monographic der Petrefacten der Aachener Kreideformation. 1 and 2 Abth. 

 Neue Beitrage zur Petrefacten der Aachener Kreideformation. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Myers, W. W. Filaria sanquinis hominis in S. Formosa. The Author. 

 Nachtigal, G. Sahara and Sudan. 2er Th. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Nagle, J. T. Summary of births, marriages, still-births and deaths in New 



York City during the year 1880. N. Y. Health Department. 

 Negris, B. Patologia vegetale. The Author. 

 Nevill, Wm. Descriptive catalogue of minerals. G. Vaux. 

 Newberry, J. S. Genesis and distribution of gold. 



Hypothetical high tides as agents of geological change. 



The origin and relation of the Carbon Minerals. The Author. 




1882.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



New South Wales. Australian Museum, report, 1881. The Trustees. 

 Nitzsch. Zoology. Manuscript, 1828. Graceanna Lewis. 

 Norske Nordhavs-Expedition, 1876-78. IV and V. The Norwegian Government. 

 Novitates Conchologicae. I Abth. Land-Conchylien, 50 and 57 Lief. Supl. VII. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Ochsenius, C. Geologisches and montanistisches aus Utah. 



Ueber Petrolium-Bildung. The Author. 

 Oerley, L. Monographic der Anguilluliden. Hungarian National Museum. 

 Oudemans, J. A. C. Commission geodesique N^erlandaise. I. Determination, 



a Utrecht de I'azimut d'Amersfoort. The Commission. 

 Paget, Sir James. Descriptive catalogue of the pathological specimens con- 

 tained in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 



Vol. 1. General pathology. The College. 

 Palaeolithic implements of the valley of the Delaware. Boston Society of 



Natural History. 

 Palreontographica., 28er Bd. 3e, 4e-6e Lief. 29er Bd. le L. Wilson Fund. 

 Pal6ontologie Francaise. lie Ser. Ter. Juras. Livr. 47-53. An. Invert. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Palaeontographical Society's Publications. Vol. 36. Wilson Fund. 

 Palmieri, L. Description du Selsmographe 61ectro-magn6tique. G. Vau^. 

 Pauceri, P. Ricerche sugli organi che nei gasteropodi segregano I'acido 



solforico. The Author. 

 Parish, S. B. and W. F. Plants of Southern California. The Authors. 

 Payot, V. Geologic et mineralogie des environs du Mont-Blanc. 



Catalogue dc la &6r\e des roches de la chaine du Mont-Bianc. Q. Vaux. 

 Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial Art. 6th annual report. 



The Trustees. 

 Peters, W. C. H. Naturwissenschaftliche Reise nach Mossambique. Zoologie, 3. 



Amphibien I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Petri ab Hartcnfelz, D. Geo. Christ. Elephantographia curiosa. Lipsiae, 1723, 



'John H. Swaby. 

 Philippi, F. Catalogus plantarum vascularium Chilensium. F. V. Hayden. 

 Photograph of the tail of a rattle-snake. G. W. Fox. 

 Picarcl-Cambridgc, Oct. -Spiders of Dorset. Vol. 1. Rev. Henry C. McCook. 



Same. Vol. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Plateau, F. Preparation rapide des grandes pieces Myologiques. The Author. 

 Portis, Ales. Sui terreni stratificati di Argentera. F. V. Hayden. 

 Powell, J.W. Contributions to N. A. ethnology. IV. Department of the Interior. 

 Powers, H. N. Annual address before the Bridgeport Scientific Society. The 



Author. 

 Prantl, K. Untersuchungen zur Morphologic der Gefasskryptogamen. 2 H. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Price, Eli K. Rockery at the University of Pennsylvania built in 1881. The 



Author. 

 Procter, Wm., Jr. A memorial of Elias Durand. G. Vaux. 

 Public Library of Victoria, catalogue, 2 vols., 1880. The Trustees. 

 Putnam, F. W. Archajological explorations in Tennessee. 



Mounds at Meron and Hutsonville on the Wabash. G. Vaux. 

 Sketch of the Hon. Lewis H. Morgan. The Author. 

 Quaritch, B. Catalogue of books on natural history. The Publisher. 

 Reinhardt, .J. Naturforskeren Peter Wilhelm Lund. F. V. Hayden. 

 Renevier, E. Orographic dc la partie des Hautes-Alpes calcaires comprise 



entre le Rhone et le Rawyl. F. V. Hayden. 

 Riviere, E. Nouvclles rechcrches dans Ics Alpes-Maritimes. 



La grottc dc I'Albar^a. The Author. 

 Ranvier, , L. Trait6 technique d'histologic, 6me Fasc. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Reclui, EIis6e. Nouvelle geographic universelle, 359e-417e. F. V. Hayden. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Reichenbach, H. G. Xenia Orchidacea. 3er Bd., 2es H. Wilson Fund. 

 Reinsch, P. F. The composition and microscopical structure of coal. The 



Author. 

 Reported mortality for the year ending Dec. 31, 1880. Health Department, N. Y. 

 Ribeiro, C. Estudos prehistoricos em Portugal. F. V. Hayden. 

 Richthofen, F. Freih. v. China, 2er Bd. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Riley, C. V. Little-known facts about well-known animals. The Author. 

 Robert, H. M. Map showing the location of works and surveys for river and 



harbor improvement. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Robert, P. Les oiseaux dans la nature. Livr. 21-30. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 

 Rossiter, R. C. A list of Cyprteidas found on the coast of New Caledonia and 



Loyalty Islands. The Author. 

 Ruiz, H. and J. Pavon. Flora Peruviana et Chilensis, 4 vols., 1798. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Russ, K. Die fremdlandischen Stubenvogel. IV, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ryder, J. A. Planarians parasitic on Limulus. 



Structure and ovarian incubation of Gambusia patruelis. 



Additional note on the egg-cases of Planarians ectoparasitic on Limulus. 



The Author. 

 St. Louis Mercantile Library Association, annual report, 1882. The Trustees. 

 Sandberger, F. Zur Naturgeschichte der Rhiin. F. V. Hayden. 

 Saporta, G. de and A. F. Marion. L' evolution du regne vegetal. 



Les cryptogames. F. V. Hayden. 

 Sars, G. 0. Carcinologiske Bidrag til Norges Fauna. 1,3. University of Norway. 

 Saussure, H. La question du lac. F. V. Hayden. 

 Schaufuss, L. W. Molluscorum systema et catalogus. The Author. 

 Scheffler, H. Das Wesen der Elektrizitat des Galvanismus und Magnetismus. 



2es Suppl. zum zweiten Theile der Naturgesetze. The Author. 

 Schenzl, G. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der erdmagnetischen Verhaltnisse in den 



Landern der Ungarischen-Krone. Hungarian National Museum. 

 Schiodte, J. C. Zoologia Danica. 2et Hefte. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schmidt, A. Atl^s der Diatomaceen-Kunde, 19 und 20 H. 1. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Schmidt, E. Mittheilungen a d. anthropologischen Literatur Amerikas. The 



Author. 

 Schomburgk, A. Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic Garden 



and Government Plantations during the year 1881. The Author. 

 Schrenck, L. v. Reisen und Forschungen im Amur-Lande. Bd. Ill, le Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Scudder, S. H. Fragments of the coarser anatomy of diurnal lepidoptera. 



The Author. 

 Schiibeler, F. C. Vtextlivet i Norge med saerligt hensyn til plantegeographien. 



University of Norway. 

 Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, report, C®. The Survey. 

 Semper, C Reisen im Archipel der I'hilippinen, 2er Th., 2er Bd. Supple- 

 ment-Heft III. Wilson Fund. 

 Sheridan, P. H. Record of engagements with hostile Indians with the Mili- 

 tary Division of the Missouri from 1868 to 1882. The Author. 

 Shufeldt, R. W. Remarks upon the osteology of Opheosaurus ventralis. The 



Author. 

 Siebke, H. Enumeratio Insectorum Norvegicorum, Fasc. V. University of 



Norway. 

 Siebold, C. de. Novella lettera di, sulla partenogenesi del Bombix Mori. The 



Author. 

 Skalkovsky, C. Tableaux statistiques de 1' Industrie des Mines en Russie en 



1868. G. Vau.x. 

 Smith, J. L. On the minerals of the Wheatley Mine in Pennsylvania. G. Vaux. 

 Smithsonian Institution, annual report, 1880. The Institution. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Societa Entomologica Italiana. Resoconto delle adunanze generali e parziali 



per I'anno 1872. II and III. The Society. 

 Soci^t^ zoologique de France. De la nomenclature de etres organises. The 



Society. 

 South African Museum, report of Trustees, 1881. The Trustees. 

 Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchylioram, Pts. 37 and 38. Wilson Fund. 

 Speyer, 0. Die Conchylien derCasseler Tertiiirbildungen, 7e Lief. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Standard time for the United States of America, Canada and Mexico. American 



Society of Civil Engineers. 

 Stanley, W. F. Properties and motions of fluids. 1881. The Author. 

 Stazione di Entomo^ogia agraria fondata in Firenze. 1875. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. On certain aboriginal implements from Napa County, Cal. 

 On the growth of certain California forest trees. 

 Forest tree culture in California. 

 Verrillia blakei or Halipteris blakei. 

 The acorn-storing habit of the California woodpecker. 

 Remarks on the death of Hon. B. B. Redding. The Author. 

 Stoppani, Ant. Pal^ontologie Lombarde. Livr. 66 and 57. Wilson Fund. 



II bel Paese. II Ed. F. V. Hayden. 

 Strebel, H. Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna mexikanischer Land- und Siiss- 



wasser-Conchylien. Th. V. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Struckmann, C. Ueber die Verbreitung des Renthiers in der Gegenwart und 

 in lllterer Zeit nach Massgabe seiner fossilen Reste unter besonderer 

 Beriicksichtigung der deutschen Fundorte. 

 Die Insel Riigen Reise-Erinnerungen. F. V. Hayden. 

 Sur I'uniformit^ de la nomenclature des grandes divisions de I'ecorce terrestre. 



F. V. Hayden. 

 Symons, T. W. Report of an examination of the Upper Columbia River and 



the territory in its vicinity. War Department 

 Szabo, J. and S. Torok. Album of the Tokay-Hegyalja, 1867. Dr. Jos. Szabo. 

 Taramelli, T. Monografia stratigrafica e paleontologica del Lias nelle Pro- 

 vincie venete. 

 Osservazioni geologiche. 1882 

 La carta geologica d' Italia. The Author. 

 Targioni-Tozzetti, A. Catalog© della collezione di insetti Italiani del R. Museo 

 di Firenze Serie 1 and 2, Coleotteri. 

 Parasiti del gelso e dell' Olivo. 



Osservazioni sulla Fillossera del Leccio e della Querce. 

 Ancora sulla melata e la sua origine. 

 Gli uccelli, gli insetti parasiti e le trattative per gli accordi internazionali 



intorno alle leggi di Caccia. 

 Bibliographia botanica Targioniana, 1874. 

 Animali riportati dalle escursione nelle provincie meridionale in Sicilia e 



in Sardegna negli anni 1868-1869. 

 La bocca ed.i piedi dei Tetranychus. 

 Myxolecanium Kibarae Beccari. 

 Nota anatomiche intorno agli insetti. 



Orthopterorum Italiae species novae in coUectione R. Musei Florentini. 

 Osservazioni di entomologia agraria. 

 Estratto di un catalog© sistematico e critico dei MoUuschi Cephalopodi del 



Mediterraneo. 

 Relazioni sulla pesca a S. E. il Ministro di Agricultura industria e com- 



mercio. 

 Sunto della conferedza sulla fillossera. 

 Sulla Helicopsyche agglutinans Tass. 



Discorso inaug. letto nella prima adunanzia publica della Societa Entomo- 

 logica Italiana. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Riassunto ed emendamento dei prospetti dei generi e dellc specie degli 



ortotteri secondo la fauna Italiana. 

 Catalogo di Crostacei Podottalmi Brachiueri e Anomouri raccoli nel viaggio 



di circumnavigazione della Fregata Italiana Magenta. 

 Sugli effetti naturali della Caccia e sulla ragioni e la opportunita degli 



ordini per regolarne 1" esercizio. 

 Sostanze alimentari all' esposizioni di Londra nel 1862. 

 Sopra alcuni lepidotteri parassiti dell' Uva, dell Grano Turco, ecc. e suUa 



Helicopsyche ottenuta alio stato d' immagine. 

 La fiUossera a Valmadrera. 

 Delle forfecchie, riattole, grillatalpe, grilli, locuste e cavallette nella eco- 



nomia domestica e nella pratica agraria. 

 Notizie sulla fiUossera della Viti. 



Sopra due generi di cogginiglie (Coccidfe) e sui criteri della loro definizione. 

 Commentario sui cephalopi Mediterranei del R. Museo di Firenze. 

 Sulla composizione delle Zampe del Gjrinus notator. 

 La lotta contro la fiUossera in Isvizzera. 

 Di una specie nuova in un nuova genere di Cirripedi lepadidei ospitante 



suUe penne addominali del Priotinus cinerens. 

 Sulla sezione pesci salati e in conserva quale era rappresentata all Espo- 

 sizione Universale di Vienna nel giugna 1873. The Author. 

 Tate, R. and J. Brazier. Check list of the fresh-water shells of Australia. 



J. Brazier. 

 Thomson, J. H. Specific distinctness of Helix (Mesodon) Chilhoweensis. The 



Author. 

 Toula, F. Ueber den gegenwiirtigen Stand der Erdbebenfrage. 



Ueber die secularen Hebungen und Senkungen der Erdoberflache. F. V. 

 Hayden. 

 Trautschold, H. Ueber den muthmasslichen Geschlechtsapparat von Poterio- 



crinus multiplex. 

 Trautvetter, E. R. a., E. L. Regel, C. J. Maximowicz and K. J. Winkler. De- 



cas plantarum. The Authors. 

 Trinius, D. C. B. Species graminum. Fasc. 28. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Manual of Conchology, XIII-XVI. The Author. 

 Tyndall, J. Essays on the floating matter in the air in relation to putrefaction 



and infection. Jos. Jeanes. 

 United States Coast Survey. Methods and results of the currents and tempe- 

 rature of Bering Sea. Appendix 16, Report 1880. The Coast Survey. 

 U. S. Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Report, 1879. The Commission. 

 U. S. Entomological Commission. Bulletin No. 7. Department of the In- 

 terior. 

 U. S. Geographical Surveys west of the 100th mer., Report upon. Vol. 3, 



Supplement, Geology. Engineer Dep. U. S. A. 

 U. S. Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories. Vol. VI, No. 3. 



Department of the Interior. 

 U. S. National Museum. Bulletin 14, 15, 17, 18 and 21. Department of the 



Interior. 

 University Library, Cambridge. 28th annual report. The University. 

 University of Mississippi. Catalogue of officers and students, 30th session. 



The Trustees. 

 University of Wurzburg. Eighteen theses of the medical and philosophical 



faculties. The Uaiversity. 

 Van der Horn van den Bos, H. P. M. Die Nederlandsche Scheikundigen van 



het Laatst der vorige Eeuw. Utrecht Society of Natural Sciences. 

 Victoria. Reports of the .Mining Surveyors and Registrars. 30ih Sept., 1880, 

 31st March, 30th June and 30th Sept., 1881, Mineral Statistics, 1880. 

 F. V. Hayden. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 38T 



Villft, A. and G. B. Cenni Geologici sul territorio dell' Antico distretto di 



Oggiono. F. V. Hayden. 

 Wadsworth, E. Notes on the mineralogy and petrography of Boston and 



vicinity, Geo. Vaux. 

 Wadsworth, ^I. E. On the relation of tlie Quincy granite to the primordial 



argillite of Braintree, Mass. 

 Some points relating to the geological exploration of the 40th parallel. 



The Author. 

 .Wallace, A. R. Island life, 1881. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Watson, Rev. R. B. Mollusc* of H. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition, 8-14. 



The Author. 

 Weisse, J. F. Die diatomaceen des Badeschlammes von Arensburg und Hapsal. 



Zur oologie der Raderthiere, 1862. G. Vaux. 

 Wetherby, A. G. Notes on American land shells, Nos. 1 and 2. 



On the geographicp.l distribution of certain fresh-water mollusks of North 



America, Nos. 1 and 2. 

 On the deformities of some Tennessee Helices. 

 Notes on some new or little known North American Limnteidoe. 

 Review of the genus Tulotoma, with remarks on the geographical distri- 

 bution of North American Viviparidte. The Author. 

 Wex, Gustav. Decrease of water in springs, creeks and rivers. Engineer 



Department, U. S. A. 

 Whitfield, R. P; Descriptions of new species of fossils from Ohio. The Author. 

 Williams, H. S. Recurrence of faunas in the Devonian rocks of New York. 



The Author. 

 Williams' tourist's map of Colorada. F. V. Hayden. 

 Winchell, N. H. Geological and natural history survey of Minnesota. 9th 



annual report. The Author. 

 Wright, 6. F. Age of the palneolithic-bearing gravels of Trenton. The .\uthor. 

 Yarrell,Wm. History of British Birds. 4th Ed. Ft. 14. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zacharias, 0. Chas. R. Darwin und die culturhistorische Bedeutung seiner 



Theorie vom Ursprung der Arten. I. V. AVilliamson Fund 

 Zecchini, S. P. L' azione fatale dell" uomo suUa terra. The Author. 

 Zeledon, J. C. Catalogo de la Aves de Uosta Rica. The Author. 

 Zittel, K. A. Handbuch der Palaeontology. I, 2 Abth. 1 Lief. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Zoological Record, 1880. Wilson Fund. 

 Zoologische Station zu Neapel. Fauna und flora des Golfes von Neapel. 



Monog. I-IV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Altenburg. Verein fiir Naturwissenschaft zu Braunschweig. Jahresbericht, 



1881. The Society. 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceedings, Vols. 29 



and 30. The Society. 

 Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wettenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeelingen, 



Afd. Letterkunde, 2e Reeks, 10 Deel. Afd. Natuurk.,2e Reeks, 16 Deel. 



Jaarboek, 1880. Processen-Verbaal, Afd. Nat., 1880-1881 Verhand- 



lengen, Deel 21. The Society. 

 Angers. Soci^te nationale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. M^moires, T. 22 



et 23. The Society. 

 Anvers. Soci6t6 de Geographic. Bulletin, IV, 7 ; V, 1-7 ; VI, 1-4, 6-8. 



Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Auch. Society Fran9aise de Botanique. Revue de Botanique, I, 1. The 



Society. 

 Augsburg. Naturhistorischer Verein. 26er Bericht. The Society. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Auxerre. Soci^t^ des Science historiques et naturelles del'Yonne. Bulletin, 



35e Vol. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American Chemical Journal, I, 1— IV, 4. The Editor. 



American Journal of Mathematics. IV, 1 — V, 1. Johns Hopkins University. 

 Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, II, 

 2,3; Report 5th and 6th; University Circulars Nos. 11-17. The 

 Editor. 

 Peabody Institute, loth annual report. The Trustees. 

 Bamberg. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. 12er Bericht. The Society. 

 Basel. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, 7er Th. 1. The 



Society. 

 Belfast. Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Sessions 



1879-80,1880-81. The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Niturgeschichte, 24er Jahrg., 6; 47er Jahrg. 6 — 48er 

 Jahrg. 3. The Editor. 

 Berliner Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologie, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. 



Verhandlungen, 1880, Nov. 7—1881, Miirz 19. 

 Zeitschrift fUr Ethnologic. 1871,1-3,5,6; 1872; 1873,1,3-6; 1874; 



1875, 2-6; 1876-1879. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Entomologischer Verein. Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift, 25er 



Jahrg. 2eg H.. 26er B. les H. The Society. 

 Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XXXIII, 2— XXXIV, 1. 



The Society. 

 Gesellschaft naturforschender Freunde. Sit^ungsberichte, 1881. The 



Society. 

 K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatsbericht, 1881, Juli- 

 Dec. Abhandlungen, mathematische, 1880; physikalische, 1881. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 1-38. The Academy. 

 Linnsea 48er Bd., 5, 6, 7. Jos. Jeanes. 

 Der Naturforscher, XIV, 27-XV. 26. The Editor. 

 Naturae Novitates, 1881, Nov. 23-1882, Nov. 20. The Publishers. 

 Verein zur Befdrderung des Gartenbaues, Monatsschrift. 24er Jahrg., 



Jan -Dec. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die gesammten Naturwissenschaften, 3e Folge, III, 6, The 

 Editor. 

 Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, Nos. 1004-1029, The 



Society. 

 Besan9on. Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 1879-80. The 



Society. 

 Bistritz. Gewerbeschule. Jahresberichte 7er und 8er. The Director. 

 Bologna. Academia delle Scienze. Memoire, ser. IV, T. 1 et 2. Volume 



Unico, 1881. The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, XX, 3 — XXI, 4- !• V. Williamson 

 Fund. 

 Nalurhistorischer Verein. Verhandlungen, 38er Jahrg. 2es H, The 

 Society. 

 Bordeaux. Soci6t6 Linndenne. Actes, T, 35me. The Society. 



Soci^t6 des Science physiques et naturelles. M^moires, IV, 3. The 

 Society. 

 Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Memoirs, X, 2 ; XI, 1. 

 The Society. 

 New England Journal of Education, IX. 25, 27 ; X, 1-4, 6-9, 10-23 ; XI, 



1-7, 9-25; XII, 1-26; XHI, 1-13, 18-20. F. V. Hayden. 

 Scientific and Literary Gossip, I, 2, 3. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XXI. pp. 129-^240, 257-432 ; 

 XXII, pp 1-16. Another copy, XX, Pt. 4; XXI. 1, 2 and 3. Memoirs, 

 Vol. 3, Pt. 1, Nos. 4 and 5. The Sopiety. 

 Zoological Society. Quarterly Jpurnal, I, 2. The Society. 




1882,] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Braunschweig. Archiv fur Anthropologic. 13er Bd. 4es Heft, and Supple- 

 ment; HerBd. les und 2es H. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenshaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen VII, 3. The Society. 

 Briinn. Naturforschende Verein. Verhandlungen, XIX. The Society. 

 Bruxelles. Society Beige de G^ographie. Bulletin, 1880, Nos. 2-6. F. V. 

 Hayden. 

 Society Beige de Microscopie. Bulletin, 1881, Oct.— 1882, Juin. The 



Society. 

 Society Malacologique. Procfes-verbaux, 1880, Nov. — 1882, Jan. The 



Society. 

 Soci^te Entomologique. Annales XXV, Statuts 1882. The Society. 

 Budapest. Fcildrajzi Kuzlemenyek. X, 4 and 5 ; XI. 2 and 4. F.V. Hayden. 

 K. U. Central-i^nstalt fiir Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus. Jahrbuch 



IX. F. V. Harden. 

 M. Tudom. Akademia. Ertekezesek a Math. Tudom&nyok Kor^bol, VIII, 

 1-6, 8-12; X, 19-25; XI, 1-26, Math, es Termeszet. Kuzlemenyek, 

 XVII. 

 Ungarische Revue, 1881, H, 5-12; 1882, H, 1-6. The Society. 

 Ungarische National-Museum. Termdszetrajzi Fiizetek, V, 2-4. The 

 Museum. 

 Buenos Aires. Museo publico. Anales, Ent. 2, 12. The Director. 

 Buffalo. American Society of Microscopists. Proceedings, 4th an. meeting. 

 The Society. 

 Society of Natural History. Bulletin, IV, 2, 3. The Society. 

 Caen. Academic nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. M^moires, 

 1881. The Society. 

 Soci6i6 Linn^enne de Normandie. Bulletin, 3e Serie, T. 4me. The 

 Society. 

 Cairo. Sociei^ Khediviale de Geographic. Bulletin, Nos 7-12. F. V. Hayden. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. .Journal, L, Pt. 1, Nos. 1-4 ; Pt. 2, Nos. 

 1-4 ; XLIX, extra number to Pt. 1 ; LI, Pt. 1, Nos. 1 and 2 ; Pt. 2, No. 1. 

 The Society. 

 Stray Feathers, IX, 5— X, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cambridge. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appilachia, II, 4; III, 1. The 

 Club. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 21, 22 and 23. Bibliographical 



Contributions, Jio. 18. The Trustees. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, VII, Pt. 2, Nos. 2 and 3 ; IX, 

 1. Reports, 1880-81, 1881-82. Bulletin VII, 2-6; IX, 1-8; X, 1. 

 The Director. 

 Nuttali Ornithological Club. Bulletin VII, 1-4. The Club. 

 Psyche, Nos. 86-96. The Editor. 

 Canada. Royal Society of. Inaugural Meeting. The Society. 

 Cap Rouge. Lc Naturaliste Canadien, XII, 144-148. The Editor. 

 Cassel. iVJalakozoologische Blatter, V, 1-7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht XXVIII. The Society. 

 Catania. Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Atti, 3a Ser., T. 13, 14, 15. 



The Society. 

 Chemnitz. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft, 7er Bericht. The Society. 

 Chicago. American Antiquarian, IV, 1-4. The Editor. 



Chicago Field, X, 11, 19, 25; XIII, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13; XIV, 2, 6, 8, 15, 

 19, 20; XV, 8. F. V. Hayaen. 

 Chfistiania. Archiv fiir Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, VI, 3-5. The Editor. 

 K. N. Frederiks Universitet. Aarsberetning, 1878, 1879 and 1880. The 



University. 

 Norwegische Meteorologische Institut. Jahrbuch, 1877-1880. The 

 Institute. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Nyt Magazia for Naturvidenskaberne, 24e Bd. 4 H — 27e Bd. 1 H. The 



Editor. 

 Videnskab-Selskabet. Forhandlinger, 1878-1881. The Society. 

 Cincinnati. Ohio Mechanics' Institute. Scientific Proceedings, I, 1-3. The 

 Institute. 

 The Paleontologist. No. 6. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Journal, V, 1-4. The Society. 

 Zoological Society. 8th annual report. The Society. 

 Clausthal. Berg- und HUttenmannischer Verein Maja. Mittheilungen, n. f. 



H. 2. F. V. Hayden. 

 Congres Geologique Internationale. Rapports, 2me Ses. F. V. Hayden. 

 Copenhagen. K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 1881, Nos. 2, 3 ; 1882, 

 No. 1. Skrifter, 6me Ser.. I, 3, 4 ; II, 1. The Society. 

 Naturbistorisk Tidsskrift. Schiodte. XlII, 1, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1881, Nos. 1, 2. The Editor. 

 Cordoba. Academia nacional de Ciencias exactas. Actas I. The Society. 

 Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, VI, 12— VII, 11. The Editor. 

 Davenport. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, III, 2. The Society. 

 Denver. Inter-Ocean, I, 1, 4, 13. F. V. Hayden. 



Dresden. K. Leop. Carol. Deutsche Academie der Wissenschaften. Nova 

 Acta, Vol. 41, Pts. 1 and 2. Leopoldina, H 16. The Society. 

 K. Mineralogisch-Geologische und PrEehistorische Museum. Mittheilungen, 



4es H. The Director. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis, Jan.-Juli, 1882. The Society. 

 Dublin. Royal Dublin Society. Proceedings, n. s., II, 7 — III, 4. Transactions, 

 Ser 2. I. 13, 14. The Society. 

 Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Journal, XVI, 1. The Society. 

 Koyal Irish Academy. Proceedings ; Polite Literature and Antiquities, II, 

 Ser. 2, No. 3; Science, III, Ser. 2, Nos. 3, 7. Transactions; Science, 

 XXVIII, 6-10. The Society. 

 Eastbourne. Natural History Society. Transactions, I, 1. F. V. Hayden. 

 Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, XIV, 2. The 

 Society. 

 Royal Physical Society. Proceedings. 1880-81. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, X, 108. Transactions, XXX, 1. The Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist. Nos. 45-48. The Editor. 

 Emden. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, 66er Jahresb. The Society. 

 Erfurt. K. Akademie gemeiniitziger Wissenschaften. Jahrhuch, n. f., Her H. 



The Society. 

 Erlangen. Physikalisch-medicinische Sociefat. Sitzungsberichte, 13er H. 



The Society. 



Florence. R. Istiiuto di Studi Superiori practicl e di perfezionamento. Pub- 



licazioni, Sezione di Scienze fisiche e naturali, 1877, 1878 and 1879. 



The Society. 



Frankfurt a. ^I. Aerztlicher Verein.. Jahresbericht, XXIV, XXV. The Society. 



Deutsche ^lalakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbiicher, VIII, 4 — IX, 4. 



Nachrichtsblatt, 1881. H. 11—1882, H. 9. The Society. 

 Frankfurter Verein fiir Geographie und Statistik. Jahrgang XLII-XLV. 



F. V. Hayden. 

 Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen XII, 3, 



4. Bericht, 1880-81. 

 Der Zoologische Garten, XXII, 1-12. The Zoological Society. 

 Freiburg i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht VIII, 1. The Society. 

 Gand. Archives de Biologie, Van Beneden und Van Bambeke. I, 4 — III, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geneva. Club Alpin. Conference Internationale, 15me Assembl^e g6n6rale. 

 F. V. Hayden. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Schweizerische palaontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen VIII. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 

 Soci^te de Physique et de Historic Naturelle. M^moires, XXVII, 2. The 



Society. 

 Soci^t6 Suisse de topographie. Bulletin I, 1, 2 ; II, 1, 2. F. V. Hayden. 

 Genoa. Societa di Letture e Conversazioni Scientifiche. Giornale, VI, 1-8. 



The Society. 

 Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie. Fittica, 1880, H. 

 2-4. The Editor. 

 Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde. 21er Bericht. 

 The Society. 

 Glasgow. Geological Society. Transactions, VI, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Natural History Society. Proceedings, III, 3 ; IV, 2. The Society. 

 Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XIII, 1. The Society. 

 Gorlitz. Naturforschende Gesellshaft. Abhandlungen XVII. The Society. 

 Qoitingen. K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Nachrichten, 1881. The 



Society. 

 Graz. Verein der Arzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen, Vereinsjahr 1881. 



The Society. 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1880-1881. The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1881. The Society. 

 Harlem. Musee Teyler. Archives, 2e Ser., 2e Partie. The Director. 



Soci^te Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives, XVII, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Helsingfors. Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Ufversigt 22, 23. Bidrag 33- 

 36. Observations Meteorologiques, 1879. Katalog der Bibliothek, 

 1881. The Society. 

 Hereford. Woolhope Naturalist's Field Club. Transactions, 1871-2-3. F. V. 



Hayden. 

 Hermannstadt. Siebenbiirgische Verein fiir Naturwissenschaften. Verhand- 



lungen und Mittheilungen, Jahrg. 32. The Society. 

 Innsbruck. Ferdinandeum. Zeitschrift, 3e Folge, 26es H. The Director. 

 Italy. Ministero di Agricoltura, Industria e Commercio. Annali di Agri- 



coltura Nos. 8, 11, 25, 34. 

 Jena. Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XV, 3, 



4. Sitzungsberichte, 1881. The Society. 

 Kansas City. The Kansas City Review, V, 8— VI, 7. The Editor. 

 Klagenfurt. Kiirnter Gartenbau Verein. .Jahresbericht, 1879. Zeitung X, 

 1 ; XI, 1-3. F. V. Hayden. 

 Landesmuseum von Kiirnten. Jahrbuch, XV. Bericht, 1880, 1881. 

 Carinthia, 1880, 1881. Diagramme der magn. u. meteorol. Beobacht- 

 ungen, 1876-1881. The Director. 

 Kiinigsberg. Physikalisch-cikonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, XXII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Lahr. Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Qeographie, I, 2, 3, 5, 6; II, 1, 2, 5; 



III, 1. F. V. Hayden. 

 Lausanne. Soci6t6 Vaudoise des Sciences Natutelles. Bulletin, Nos. 85, 86 



and 87. The Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual repoi-t, 1881-82. The 



Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologie. Anatomische Abth., 1881, 

 H. 6; 1882, H. 1-3. Physiologische Abth., 1881, H. 6; 1882, H. 1-4 

 und Suppl. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanischer .Jahrbiicher. Engler II, 4 — 111,4 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Jahresberichte iiber die Fortschritte der Anatomie uud Physiologie. Hof- 



mann und Schwalbe. V-IX ; X, 1, 2. -1. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Jahrbiicher fur wissenschaftliche Botanik, XIII, 1-3. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1882. 



Journal fur Ornithologie, XXTX, 4— XXX, 1-3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Morphologisches .Jahrbuch, VII, 3— VILI, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1881. The Society. 

 Zeitechrift fUr Krystallographie und Mineralogie. Groth. VI, 3 — VII, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie, XXXVI, 3— XXXVII, 3. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger. H. 97-124. The Editor. 

 Zoologische Station zu Neapel. Mittheilungen, I ; II; 111,1-4. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Liege. Society Royale des Sciences. M^moires, 2me ser., IX. The Society. 

 Lisbon. Associacao dos Engenheiros civis Portuguezes. Revista de Obras 



publicas e Minas. X, 143-153. The Society. 

 London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History, VIII, 48-59. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Astronomical Register, Nos. 228-239. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report, Slst meeting. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Chemical Society. Journal, Jan., 1876— Dec, 1881, twelve volumes. Nos. 



230-240. The Society. 

 Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Nos. 1138-1149. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The Electrician. VIII, 1— IX, 26. The Editor. 

 Entomological Society. Transactions, 1881. The Society. 

 The Gardener's Lhronicle. Nos. 412-463. The Editor. 

 Geological Magazine. Nos. 210-221. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 148-151 ; List, 1881. The 



Society. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip. Nos. 204-215. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ibis. Oct., 1881 and 4th Ser., VI, 21-24. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, XVI. 2— XVII, 1. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nos 228-239. I.V.Williamson 



Fund. 

 Journal of Physiology. Foster, III, 3, 6 and Suppl. 2. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Journal of Science. Ill, 3rd Ser , Nos. 96-107. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Knowledge. Nos. 17-52. The Editor. 

 Linnean Society. Journal, Botany, Nos. 108-121 ; Zoology, Nos. 84-94. 



Transactions, 2d Ser. Zoology, II, 2-5; Botany, II, 1. List, 1881. 



Proceedings, July, 1882. The Society. 

 London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. 1881, XII, 77-89. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical Maga- 

 zine and Journal of the. II, 21 and 22. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Nature. Nos. 629-681. The Editor. 

 Notes and Queries. 6th Ser., Pts. 23-31. The Editor. 

 Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science. New Series, Nos. 85-88. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, n. s., 



XIII. 4— XIV, 3. The Society. 

 Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, n. s., II, 9— IV, 9. Journal, 



Vol. 50. The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, Ser. 2., Vol. I, 6 — II, 5. The 



Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings. Nos. 197-220. Philosophical Transactions, 



Vol. 172, No. 3; 173, No. 1. Catalogue of Library, I. The Society. 

 Scientific Roll, Nos. 1-9. The Editor. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPUIA. 393 



Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 29. The Society. 



Society of Telegraph Engineers. Journal, IX, 33. F. V. Hayden. 



Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 167-176. The 



Publishers. 

 Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1881, Pt. 3—1882, Pts. 1 and 2. Index, 

 1871-1880. Transactions, XI, 6. Index, I-X. List of Fellows, 1882. 

 The Society. 

 Zoologist. 1881, V, 60-71. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Ca. Canadian Entomologist, XIII, 12 — XIV, 11. The Editor. 

 Louvain. Universite Catholique. Anuuaire, 6e Annee. Fourteen Theses. 



The University. 

 Liibeck. Naturhistorisches Museum. Jahresbericht, 1881. The Society. 

 Liineberg. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Jahreshefte, VIII. The Society. 

 Lyon. Lyon Scientifique et Industriel, 2e Annee, Nos. 2, 3, 10 and 11. F. V. 

 Hayden. 

 Soci^te de Q^ographie. Bulletin, III, 17, 18, 19, 21. F. V. Hayden. 

 Madrid. Memorial de Ingenieros. An. 36, No. 22 — An. 37, No. 21. The 

 Editor. 

 Sociedad Geogr^fica. Boletin, VIII, 4-6 ; IX, 1-6 ; X, 1-5 ; XI, 1-G ; XII, 

 1 and 2. F. V. Hayden. 

 Maiden, Mass. Middlesex Institute. Annual reports, 1881-82. The Society. 

 Manchester. Scientific Students' Association. Annual report, 1880. The 



Society. 

 Marburg. Gesellschaft ziir Beforderung der gesammten Naturwissenschaften. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 1880, 1881. Schriften, 8vo II, 7. Schriften, 4to 11,5. 

 The Society. 

 Marlborough. Marlborough College Natural History Society. Report No. 30. 



F. V. Hayden. 

 Marseille. Club Alpin Fran9ais. Section de Province. Bulletin, 1880. Nos. 



1-4. F. V. Hayden. 

 Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Anales, V, VI. Boletin, 1882. The De- 

 partment. 

 Museo Nacional. Anales, II, 5-7. The Director. 

 Sociedad de Geografia y Estadistica de la Republica Mexicana. Boletin, 



V, 4-11. The Society. 

 Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, V, 11 — VI, 3. 

 The Society. 

 Milan. Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola. Atti, VI, 2. The Society. 



R. Istituto Lombaido di Soienze e Lett ere. Rendiconti, Ser. II, Vol. 13. 



The Society. 

 Regio Istituto technico superiore. Programma, 1881-82. The Institute. 

 Milwaukee. Naturhistorischer Verein von Wisconsin. Jahresbericht, 1881-82. 



The Society. 

 Mons. Society des Science, des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut. Memoires, 



4me Ser., V. The Society. 

 Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist, n. s., X, 3-6. The Editor. 



Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Canadian Antiquarian, X, 2; XI, 1. 

 The Society. 

 Moscow. Soci^te Imp6riale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1881, No. 1. The 



Society. 

 Munich. Gesellschaft fiirAnthropologie, Ethnologic und Urgeschichte. Bei- 

 trage, IV, 4; V, 1. The Society. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math.-phys. 

 Classe, 1881, Nos. 2-4 ; 1882, No. 1. Abhandlungen. mathem.-physikal. 

 Classe, XIV, 1. The Society. 

 K. Sternwart. Beobachtungen, 1881. The Observatory. 

 Ncuchatcl. Soci^t^ des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, XII, 2, 3. The Society. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Newcastle. North StaflFordshire Naturalists' Field Club and Archaeological 



Society. Annual report, 1881. F. V. Hayden. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science, 1881, No. 132 ; 1882, No. 143, 



The Editor. 

 Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, V, 2. The 



Academy. 

 Yale College. Catalogue, 1881-82. The Trustees. 

 New Jersey. Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 1882. The Society. 

 New York. Academy of Sciences. Transactions, 1881-1882, I, 1-3. The 



Society. 

 American Chemical Society. Journal, III, 7 and pp. 81, et seq. The 



Society. 

 American Fish Cultural Association, 10th annual meeting. The Society. 

 American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1878, No. 4; 1881, Nos. 2-5; 



1882, No. 1. Journal, XI-XIII. The Society. 

 American Journal of Microscopy, VI, 9-12. The Editor. 

 American Monthly Microscopical Journal, II, 8, 9, 11, 12 ; III, 1-11. The 



Editor. 

 American Museum of Natural History, 13th annual report. Bulletin, Nos. 



1, 2 and 3. The Director. 

 Appleton's Literary Bulletin, I, 1, 2. The Publishers. 

 Food and Health, II, 10. The Editor. 

 Forest and Stream, XVII, 18— XIX, 17. The Editor. 

 Library Journal, VI, 11— VII, 11. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mining Record, V, 20, 21, 28-25; VI, 1-9, 11-26; VII, 1-26: VIII, 1-26; 



IX, 1-26; X, 1-27; XI, 1-15. F. V. Hayden. 

 Monthly Index to Current Periodical Literature, II, 6. The Editor. 

 New York Medical Eclectic, 1882. July and Aug. The Editor. 

 New York Medical Journal, XXXIV, 6— XXXVI, 5. The Editor. 

 Popular Science Monthly, 1882, Jan.-Dec. The Editor. 

 Science, Nos. 75-82. The Editor. 

 Scientific American, XL, 26; XLI ; XLII, 1-18, 20, 26 : XLIII ; XLIV, 



1-15. Supplement. Nos. 179, 182-198, 200-216, 218-226, 228-230, 232- 



244, 246-276, June 7, 1879- Apr. 16, 1881. F. V. Hayden. 

 Same. Supplement, 1882. Nos. 314-327. C. P. Perot. 

 Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, VIII, 12— IX, 11. The Society. 

 Niirnberg. Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, VII. The Society. 

 Orleans. Soci^te d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires, 



2e Ser., XXII, 1— XXIII. 2. The Society. 

 Paris. Annales des Mines, 7me Ser., XIX, 4 — 8me Ser., I, 3. Minister of 



Public Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologiques, XII, 1 — XIV, I. The Editor. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zoologie et Paleontologie, XII, 1 — XIV, 1. 



Botanique, XII, 1— XIV, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie experimentale et g^n^rale, 1881, No, 3 — 1882, No. 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Club Alpin Fran9aise. Annuaire, 3me, 4me and 6me Ann^e. Bulletin 



trimpstrial, 1879, Nos. 1, 2 and 4; 1880. 1-3; 1881, 1-4. Bulletin 

 , Mensuel, 1882, Nos. 1, 2, 3. F. V. Hayden. 

 Ecole polytechnique. Journal, T. 30, 31. The Director. 

 Institute National Agronomique. Annales, 3e Ann^e, Nos. 4 and 5. F. V. 



Hayden. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie, 3e Ser., XXI, 3— XXII, 2. The Editor. 

 Journal de Micrographie, 5me Ann^e. No. 10 — 6me Aand, No. 10. The 



Editor. 

 Le Monde Inconau. Nos. 1-4, 6, 7, 9-28. F. V. Hayden. 

 Museum d'Histoire Naturelle. Nouvelle Archives, 2me Ser. IV, 1, 2. The 



Society. 




1882.J NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Le Naturaliste. 4me Anntje. Nos. 16-21. The Editor. 



Kevue de Geographic, Drapeyron. 3me Ann6e, Jan.-Juin ; 4me Ann^e, 



1880, Juil.— 1881, Juin ; Sept., 1881— Marz, 1882. F. V. Hayden. 

 Revue G6ographique internationale. 4me Ann6e, No. 4. F. V. Hayden. 

 Revue des Industries chimiques et agricoles. VI, 61. The Editor. 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences. 4me Ann^e, No. 11 — 5me Ann^e, No. 



10. The Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique. T. 29me No, 21— 1882, No. 20. The Editor. 

 Soci^t^ d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, 1881. VIII, 8— IX, 8. The Society. 

 Soci^t^ de Biologic. Compte Rendu des Seances, 7me Scr., I. The 



Society. 

 Soci^t6 Botanique de France. Bulletin, XXVIII. Revue Bibliogr., A-D. 



Comptus Rendu, 4-6. The Society. 

 Soci^t6 Geologique de France. Bulletin, 3me Ser., VII, 10, 11 ; VIII, 3, 5, 6 ; 



IX, 9; X, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Soci^t^ Min^ralogique de France. Bulletin, IV, 7 — V, 7. The Society. 

 Soci6t6 nationale d Agriculture de France. Bulletin, 1872-1880; 1882, 



1-9. Annuaire, 1882. Stance publique, 7 Aout, 1881. M6moires, 



1873 1877 ; T. 126. The Society. 

 Soci6t6 nationale de topographic pratique. Bulletin, Ire An. Dec, Jan. 



and Feb. F. V. Hayden. 

 Society de Topographic. Bulletin, I, 1, 2, 4-12 ; II, 4 ; III and IV. F. V. 



Hayden. 

 Society Zoologiquc. Bulletin, 1881, No. 3—1882, No. 1. The Society. 

 Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1881, No. 1 — 1882, 



No. 2. Mineralogical and Geological Proceedings, No. 2. The Publication 



Committee. 

 Amateur Naturalist, I, 5 and 6. The Editor. 



The American, weekly ed., I, 69-90; monthly ed., I, 1-6. The Editor. 

 American Entomological Society. Transactions, IX, 2 — X, 2. The Society. 

 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan.-Oct., 1882. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy, LIII. 12 — LIV, 11. The Editor. 

 American Naturalist, XV, 12— XVI, 11. The Editor. 

 American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 29th annual meeting. 



The Society. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 109-112. The Society. 

 Civil Service Reform Association. 1st an. report. The Society. 

 College of Pharmacy, Alumni Association. 18th an. report. The Society. 

 The Dental Cosmos, XXIII, 12— -XXIV, 11. The Editor. 

 Engineers' Club. Proceedings, II, 3 — III, 2. List of Members. The 



Society. 

 Franklin Institute. Journal, 3d Ser., Nos 672-684. The Society. 

 The Gardener's Monthly, Dec, 1881— Nov., 1882. The Editor. 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine, V, 1 — VI, 2. 



The Society. 

 Literary Era, I, 1, 2. The Publishers. 

 Medical News and Abstract, No. 468. The Editor. 

 Mercantile Library Bulletin, I, 1. The Library Co. 

 Naturalists' Leisure Hour. Oct., 1881— Oct., 1882. The Editor. 

 North American Medical and Surgical Journal, I-XII. Executors of Dr. 



Robt. Bridges. 

 Stoddart's Review, Nos. 31-37. The Editor. 

 Zoological Society, 10th an. report. The Society. 

 Pisa. R. Accademia Valdarnese del Poggio. Memorie Valdarnesi, I-IV. 



Genni Storici, 1880. The Society. 

 Society, Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Atti, 13 Nov., 1881— Luglio 2, 1882. 



Memorie V, 1. The Society. 



26 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1882. 



Plymouth. Plymouth Institution and Devon and Cornwall Natural History 



Society. Annual report and transactions, VII, 3. F. V. Hayden. 

 Portland. Society of Natural History, 16th meeting. H.C.Lewis. 

 Princeton. E. M. Museum of Geology and Archaeology of the College of New 



Jersey. Annual report, 1882. The Director. 

 Riga. Naturforscher-Verein. Correspondenzblatt, 23er und 24er Jahrg. The 



Society. 

 Rochester. Society of Natural Sciences. Transactions, Nos. 1, 2. The Society. 



Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, I, 2, 3, 4. The Editor. 

 Rome. R. Accademia dei Liucei. Atti, Serie Terza, Transunti, VI, 1-14. 



The Society. 

 Sacramento. Agassiz Institute. Proceedings, 1872, and iive numbers for 



1873. The Society. 

 St. Gallen. St. Gallische Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1879- 



1880. The Society. 

 St. John. Natural History Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin, No. 1. The 



Society. 

 St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Repertorium fiir Meteor- 

 ologie, VII, 2. Memoires, XXVIII, 3-9; XXIX, 1-4: XXX, 1, 2. 'Bul- 

 letin, XXVII, 3, 4. The Society. 

 Hortus Petropolitanus Acta, VII, 2. The Director. 

 Physikalische Central-Observatorium. Annalen, 1880, 1 and 2; 1881, 1. 



The Director. 

 Societas Entomologica Rossica. Horo9, XV. Transactions, XI. The 

 Society. 

 Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, XIII, 10— XIV, 6. The Society. 

 San Diego. Society of ^atural History. Charter, Constitution, etc., 1881, and 



July 7, 1882. The Society. 

 San Francisco. Mining Scientific Press, XXXVIII, 19, 24, 26; XXXIX, 1-8, 

 9, 10-26; XL, 1-14, 16-26; XLI, 1-26: XLII, 1-14, 16-19, 21-26; 

 XLIII. 1-24, 26, 27 ; XLIV, 1-10. F. V. Hayden. 

 Pacific Rural Press, XVII, 19, 24-26; XVIII, 1-14, 16-26; XIX, 1-10, 

 14-26; XX, 1-12, 14-26; XXI, 1-26; XXII, 1, 4-27; XXIII, 1-10. 

 F. V. Hayden. 

 Semur. Soci^te des Sciences historiques et naturelles, 17e Annee, 1880. The 



Society. 

 Springfield. Illinois State Museum of Natural History. Bulletin, No. 1, 1882. 



The Director. 

 Staunton. The Virginias, II, 11— III, 10. The Editor. 

 Stockholm. Entomologisk Tidskrift, II, 4; III, 1-3. The Editor. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademiens. (ifversigt, 34-37- Lefnadsteckningar, II, 1. 

 Handlingar, XIV, 2; XV and Atlas; XVI, XVII. Bihang, IV, 1, 2; 

 V, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Stuttgart. Humboldt, I, 1. The Publishers. 



Kosmos, V, 8— VI. 7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Miueralogie, Geologie und Palaeontologie, 1881, II, 3 ; 



1882, I, 1— II, 2; II, Beilage, Band 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Verein fiir vaterliindische Naturkunde in Wiirttemberg. Jahresberichte, 

 30er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Switzerland. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, 1880-81. The 



Society. 

 Sydney. Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, VI, 3, 4; VII, 

 1. The Society. 

 Royal Society of New South Wales, .lournal and Proceedings, XIV. 

 The Society, 

 Tasmania. Royal Society. Papers and Proceedings, 1880. The Society. 

 Throndhjem. K. N. Videnskabers Selskabet. Skrifter, 1880. The Society. 




1882.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39T 



Tokio. University, Science Department. Memoirs, I, 8. Rev. Dr. Syle. 

 Turin. Academia Reale delle Scienze. Atti, XVI, 5-7 ; XVII, 1-7. The 

 Society. 

 Cosmos. VI, 1-12. F. V. Hayden. 



Regio Osservatorio della Regia Universita. BoUettino, Anni 15, 16. The 

 Director. 

 Toronto Canadian Institute. Proceedings, n. s. I, 2. The Society. 



Entomological Society. Annual report, 1881. Th* Society. 

 Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. BoUettina, VII. The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de 1' University. Bulletin meteorologique, XIII. The 

 Director. 

 Regia Societas Scientiarum. Nova Acta, XI. The Society. 

 Utrecht. Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap von Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 

 Verslag, 1881. Aanteekeningen, 1880-1881. The Society. 

 K. nederlandsch meteorologisch Instituut. Jahrboek, 1881. The Director. 

 Venice. R. Institute Veneto di Scienze, Lettre et Arti. Atti, serie 5a, VI, 10, 



VII. 1-9. The Society. 

 Vienna. Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, XI, 1, 3, 4; XII, 



I, 2. The Society. 



Embryologische Institute der K. K. Univer.sitUt in Wien. Mittheilungen, 



II. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, mathemat.-nalurw. 



Classe 83 Bd., le Abth., V— 85 Bd., 2e Abth., II. Denkschriften, 



mathem.-naturw. Classe, 43 and 44 Bd. The Society. 



K. K. geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch, 1881. Nos. 2-4; 1882, Nos. 



1-3. Verhandlungen, 1881, Nos. 8-18; 1882, Nos. 1-8. The Society. 



K. K. zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXXI. The 



Society. 

 Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Eenntnijse. Schriften, 



22er Bd. The Society. 

 Wiener Entomologische Zeitung. I, 1 . The Editor. 



Wiener lUustrirte Garten- Zeitung. 1881, No. 6—1882, No. 9. The Editor. 

 Zoologische Institut. Arbeiten, IV, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Washington. United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, 1881, pp. 1, et seq. ; 

 1882, 1-160. The Commission. 

 United States National Museum. Proceedings, 1881, p. 209, et seq. ; 

 1882, pp. 1-448. Bulletin No. ll and No. 19. Circulars 13-17. The 

 Director. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XIV. The Society. 

 West Chester. Philosophical Society. Historical Sketch, Sept. 22, 1881. 



The Society. 

 Westeriis. Redogiirelse for Hogre Allmanna Liiroverket i Westeras, 1861-1880. 



Westerns Gymnasium. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, n. s. I, 1 — II, 1. 



The Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Botanisches Institut. Arbeiten, II, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, n. f. XVI. 

 Sitzungsberichte, 1881. The Society. 

 York. Natural History Journal (and School Reporter), III, 7, 9 ; IV, 28-38 ; 

 V, 40; VI, 46, 47. F. V. Hayden. 





INDEX TO GENERA. 



399 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



1882. 



Abies 110 



Abra 158 



Abramis 307 



Acanthurus 304 



Acer 9, 89, 218 



Acoura 281 



Acris 329 



Acrosoma 255 



Actfeon 170, 172 



Actinia 93 



Actinospheerium 260, 261 



Acyclus 245, 247 



Adiorbis 170 



Akebia 113 



Alces 319,320, 324, 327 



Alcyonidium 262 



Alepes 276 



AUanite 60 



Alungen 55 



Alycseus 233 



Amauropsis 198, 200 



Amblyctonus 300 



Amblyopus 284 



Amblystoma 328 



Ambrosia 10 



Ammonites 94, 194, 197, 200 



Amphichthys 279 



Amphidesma 155, 157, 159, 162 



Ampbiscarus 274 



Amphiuma 328 



Ampullaria 192 



Amycla 170 



Anacantbus 283 



Anacodon 96 



Anitina 158 



Anchura 206 



Ancillaria 198. 204, 208 



Ancj'loceras .' 204 



An em » 278 



Anguilla 303 



Angu i nella 1 70 



Anisonchus 96 



Anomia...l54, 155, 157, 162, 163, 183 



Anoplophrya 146 



Anosmius 283 



Antennarius 308 



Antilocapra 819 



Antrozous 318 



Aphis 148 



Apistus 277 



Aplocerus 319 



Aporrhais 198, 204, 206 



Apsilus 244 



Aquacreptite 56 



Aracana 282, 309 



Area 154, 156, 158, 159, 160, 



162, 163, 164, 183, 186, 199 



Arctomys 319, 320, 324, 327 



Architectonica 198 



Argiope 256 



Argylepes 276 



Argyrops 273 



Arnoglossus 304 



Artemis 155, 156, 158, 159, 



160, 163, 183 



Arvicola 319, 320, 324 



Ascaris 109 



Aspi coitus 278 



Aspidophoroides 278 



Aspredo 281 



Assilina 189 



Astarte 155, 156, 158, 159, 



160, 183, 186 



Astrocanthus 283 



Astronotus 275 



Atta 265 



Attacus 238 



Aturia 196, 197, 200 



Auchenipterus 281 



Aurichalcite 36 



Autunite 49 



Avicula 199, 200 



Axinaa 199 



Azurite 36 




400 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Bacillus 145 



Baculites 194, 205 



Balanoglossus 93, 102 



Balatro 244 



Balanus 224 



Balistes 282, 309 



Barbatia 199 



Barite 38 



Bascanion 380 



Bassaris 319, 320, 321 



Bathmodon 294 



Bela 170 



Bicidium 93 



Biotite 261 



Bison 319, 320, 324, 327 



Blarina 318 



Blenitrachus 278 



Blenniops 278 



Blennius 304 



Blennophis 278 



Bodianus 273, 306 



Boleops 279 



Bothus 280 



Botia '.. 282 



Bouvardia 10 



Brachirus 281 



Brachyrus 277, 284 



Brassica 285 



Breviceps 284 



Buccinanops 211 



Buccinum 170, 173, 198, 203 



Bufichthys 277 



Bufo 329, 333 



Bulla 172, 173, 198, 204, 208 



Bullia 210 



Byssolite 36 



Bythinella 334 



Caecum 168 



Calamus 273 



Callianassa ..197, 200 



Callicanthus 276 



Callisaurus 333 



Callocephalus 319, 320, 324 



Callorhinus 319, 320, 327 



Callorhynchus 308 



Camponotus 98, 259, 26-5, 269, 271 



Cancellaria 167, 168, 170, 172, 



173, 175 



Canis 327 



Cant her ines 283 



Canthidermis 282 



Canthigaster 284 



Canthirynchus 278 



Canthophrys 282 



Capra 319. 320, 324 



Caprella 262 



Capulus 170 



Cardita....l55, 156, 158, 159, 162, 



163, 164, 199, 211 

 Cardium...l55, 1-56, 158, 159, 160, 



162, 164, 183, 199 



Carelophus 278 



Carinorbis 168 



Carpinus 218 



Carterella 12 



Carya 218 



Cassidaria 204, 208 



Cassis 172 



Castor 319, 320, 324, 327 



Catathlaeus 96 



Cemoria 170 



Centropogon 277 



Cephalacanthus 307 



Cephalotaxus 252 



Cepbalus 309 



Cephus 280 



Cepola 304 



Cerithiopsis 170, 198 



Cerithium 168, 170 



Cervus 319, 320, 327 



Cestracion 308 



Chabazite 38, 288 



Chaetodermis 283 



Chajtodon 304 



Chsetolabrus 273 



Chastura 215 



Chalisoma 282 



Chama... 154,156,158,162,163,183, 186 



Charina 330, 333 



Chauliodus 307 



Chedrus 279 



Chemnitzia 168, 170 



Chilichthys 283 



Chilomeuiscus 333 



Cbilopoma 333 



Chimsera 308 



Chionactis 333 



Chirolophis 278 



Chirostoma 276 



Chiioa 170 



Chlorichthys 275 



Chlorurus 274 



Chondropoma 105 



Chondrus 215 



Chorophilus 329 



Chrysiptera 273 



Chrysoblephus 273 



Cichlasoma 275, 284 



Cichlaurus 284 



Cinosterna ". 333 



Circe 155, 156, 158 



Cirrhosomus '. 283 



Cirripecies 278 



Clausilia 231, 235 



Clinetrachus 278 



Clinus 278 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



401 



Clostera 238 



Clupea 307 



Clupisoma... 281 



Clupisudis 279 



Cly mena 103 



Cobitis 282 



Coccus 148 



Coleonyx 333 



Coluber 330, 333 



Columbella 167, 172, 175, 176 



Columbite 51 



Condylura 318 



Conodon 305 



Contopus 285 



Conus ...107, 168. 172, 198, 204, 208 



Copiatite 60 



Corbula 155, 157, 159, 160, 198 



Cordiera 197 



Cordylophora 253 



Corema 35 



Coris 275 



Corregonus 307 



Corticula 236 



Corydoras 281 



Corylus 93, 113 



Coryphodon 294, 330 



Cottus 304 



Cotylephorus '281 



Cotylis 308 



Crassatella..l55, 156, 158, 159, 160, 



199, 203 



Crassilabrus 274 



Crematogaster 264 



Crenella 156, 158, 199 



Crepidula..l67, 168, 170,174,175, 



176, 204, 208 



Cricetodipus 326 



Crioceras 205 



Cristellaria 189 



Crotalus 333 



Cromileptes 272 



Crucibulum....l67, 168, 170, 172, 173 



Ctenodon 276 



CucullEea 199, 2(.0 



Cuniculus 324, 326 



Cumingia 155, 158, 162, 165 



Cupelopagus 244 



Cyanea 93 



Cyathocrinus 17 



Cyclophorus 233 



Cyclopiuni 281 



Cyclopterus 308 



Cyclotus 232, 233 



Cyclura 333 



Cylichna 170, 198, 200 



Cylindrella 105 



Cynaedus 274, 300 



Cynichtbys 273 



Cynomys 319 



Cyprtea 167, 168, 198, 204, 208 



Cyprinus 307 



Cypsilurus 280 



Cyrena 185, 156, 158 



Cyrtophora 256 



Cystophora 319,320,^24, 327 



Cytherea..l55, 156, 158, 159, 160 



162, 16-3, 164 



Delphinula 170 



Deltatherium 299 



Dentalium..l67, 168 170, 172, 173, 



174, 175, 176, 198, 200 



Desmognathus 328 



Diacantha.. 282 



Diagram ma 273 



D' camptodon 328 



Dicerobatis 282, 308 



Dicotyles 301, 319, 320, 321 



Dictyophora 244, 248 



Didelphys 319, 320, 321 



Diemictylus 328 



Diodon 309 



Diorite. 59 ' 



Diplodactylus 333 



Dipodouiys 319 



Dipsosaurus 333 



Distichopus 145 



Dolium 167, 168, 175 



Dolomedes 254 



Dolomite 36 



Donax 103, 155, 157, 162 



Uopplerite 52 



Dosinia 199, 212 



Ecphora 167, 168, 170, 172 



Elecate 306 



Elastoma 273 



Eleotris 304 



Elephas 290, 292 



Enchytiseus 145 



Engystoma 329, 330 



Enhydris 318, 320, 321 



Ennea 235 



Enophrys 278 



Eolis 262 



Epeira 97, 255, 256 



Epinephelus 273, 305, 306 



Epirhexis 330 



Equus 292 



Erato 168 



Erethizon 319 



Erpicthys 278 



Erychthys 274 



Erycinella 158, 186 



Esomus 279 



Esox 307 



Eulima 168, 170 



Eulimella 170 




402 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Eumatopias 319, 323 



Eumeces 331, 332 



Eupemis 275 



Euryglossa 281 



Eutaenia 330 



Evotomys 326 



Exogyra 205 



Fahlunite 51 



Fasciolaria 167, 168, 170, 175, 



198, 203 



Favosites 12 



Felichthys 281, 284 



Felis 115, 121, 131, 137, 318, 



319, 320, 326 



Fiber 319, 320, 321 



Fieopsis 212 



Ficus 167, 169, 173, 198, 204, 208 



Filaria 109 



Fissurella 167, 169, 170, 172, 173 



Fistularia 273 



Flabellum 199 



Forestiera 218 



Formica 148, 264, 266, 267, 269 



Fraxinus 218 



Fulgur....l67, 168, 170, 172, 175, 176 



Fusus 167, 169, 170, 172, 173, 



197, 200, 203, 207 



Gadu8 198, 204,208, 304 



Galeodia 168, 169 



Galerus 198, 203 



Gari '. 199 



Garnet 54, 58, 149 



Gasterosteus 306 



Gastrochffina 159 



Gelidium 215 



Genicanthus 273 



Geomys 318, 319 



Gerres 3( 5 



Ginko 9 



Qlandina 192 



Gleichenia 232 



Glycera 103 



Glycocardia 166 



Gobileptes 284 



Gobiomorus 304 



Gobius 304 



Gompbosus 306 



Gouldia 155, 156, 158, 162, 164 



Graculus 109 



Grossularite 288 



Grypbaea 205 



Gulo 318, 320,323, 327 



Gunnellus 279 



Gyalopium 333 



Gymnocantbus 278 



Gymnapistes 277 



Gyinnetrus 304 



Gypsum 48 



Gyrodes 198, 204, 206 



Halictrcerus 319, 320, 324, 327 



Halientaea 308 



Halicyon 319 



Halotrichite 50 



Hamiltonia 276 



Hamites 204 



Haploconus 96 



Haploodon 319 



Helicancylus 205 



Helicarion 234 



Helicina 234 



Helicoceras 204 



Helianthus 222 



Helix 169,232, 234 



Heloderma 333 



Helvite 100 



Hemifusus 197 



Hemigymnus 275 



Hemistoma 274 



Hemiulis 274 



Heniocbus 304 



Hesperomys 319, 320, 321 



Heterocrinus 26 



Heteromeyenia 18 



Heteromys 318 



Heulandite 288 



Hippa 238 



Hipparion 290 



Hippocepbalus 278 



Hipponyx 168, 241 



Hippotherium 290 



Histiophorus 304 



H olacan t bus 304 



Holocentrus 306 



Homo 292 



Hoplisoma 281 



Hyalite 49 



Hygeogonus 275 



Hyla 329, 830 



Hypostomus 307 



Hypsiglena 333 



Hyptiotes 256 



Hyrax 95 



let by callus 275 



Ichtbyoscopus 278 



Infundibulum 168, 169 



Inoceramus 194, 205 



Isocardia 156, 158, 159, 160, 186 



Jaculus 319 



Janira 154 



Julis 306 



Juniperus 9, 218 



Kellia 158 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



403 



Labrisomus 279 



Labristoma 276 



Labrus 306 



Lactophrys 282 



Lagocephalus 283 



Lagomys 319, 320, 324 



Lampris 304 



Lasiurus 318, 320, 321 



Lasius 148 



Latax 318 



Laurida 279 



Leda..l55, 150, 159, 160, 162, 163, 



165, 199, 200, 202 



Leidyite 288 



Leiodon 284 



Leisomus 283, 284 



Leiurus 276, 282 



Lepadogaster 308 



Lepidion 280 



Lepidopus .•... 304 



Lepidosteus 307 



Leptodes 280 



Leptognathus 283 



Lepton 160 



Leptoscarus 274 



Lepus 319, 320, 327 



Lichanura 330, 333 



Lima 160 



Limna-a 236, 334 



Limnias 262 



Lindia 243 



Liononacanthus. 283 



Lithrodytes 330 



Lithrognathus 273 



Littorina 168, 169, 174, 225 



Lophius 308 



Lophopsetta 280 



Loricaria 281, 307 



Loripes 156 



Lucina 155, 156, 158, 160. 162, 



163, 164, 165, 183, 186, 199 



Lumbricus 147 



Lunatia 198 



Lupus 318, 319 



Lutjanus 305, 06 



Lyncus 323 



Lynx 318, 319, 320 



Macacus 323 



Macrochlamys 235 



Macrochyrus 277 



Mactra ...155, 157, Li8, 160, 163, 



164, 183, 194, 199, 2i 0, 201 



Macrotus 818. 320, 321 



Mahonia 113 



Mi.lthe 308 



Mangelia 171 



Margaritella 198, 2U4, 206. 207 



Marginella 168, 169, 170, 173 



Martes 318, 320 



Martesia 198, 2C0 



Megalops 307 



Megalotrocha 244 



Megistostoma 198, 210, 213 



Melaconite 36 



Meladerma 276 



Melanopsis 173 



Melampus 146, 171 



Melichthrys 282 



Melocrinus 31 



Menaccanite 40 



]\lenestbo 171 



Meniscotherium 96 



M enobranchus 328 



Menopoma 187, 328 



Mephites 319, 320, 321 



Meretrix 199, 212 



Mesonyx 299 



Meyenia 12, 70 



Microcanthus 273 



Microgaster 273 



Micropterus 69 



Mitch«lla 9 



Mitra 168, 169, 198, 204, 208 



Modiola 160, 199 



Molacanthus 283 



Mou acanthus 309 



Monazite 15 



Monoceros 304 



Monocystis 147 



Monodactylus 305 



Monodonta 168 



Monomorium 268 



Monopterus 303 



Morio 198 



Mormyrhynchus 280 



INIorunga 319 



Mupil 307 



Mulinia 157 



Mullus 306, 307 



Murosna 303 



Murasnopsis 328 



Murex 168, 169 



Muscovite 311 



Mustela 318, 320, 327 



Mya 158, 160 



Mycrocystis 235 



Myliobatis 308 



Myoconcha 186 



Myodes 319, 320, 324 



Myrmecocystus 270 



Myrnieleon 258 



iMyrroica 264 



Mysia 156, 158, 199 



Mytilus 154, 156.160, 199. 241 



Nassn 168. 169, 171, 173, 174. 



175, 176, 198, 204, 208 




404 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Nasua , 115, 121, 125 



Natica 168, 169, 171, 173, 174, 



175, 176, 198 



Nautilus 197, 200 



Naticina 198, 210 



Nei«ra 199 



Nemachilus 281 



Nemipterus 273 



Nemophora 1 89 



Neosorex 318 



Neotoma 319 



Nephila 256 



Neptunea 197 



Never.ta 198 



Niso 171, 178, 198. 208 



Nucula....l55, 158. 160, 162, 163, 

 164, 165, 183, 186, 194, 199, 200. 202 



Nummulina -. 190 



Nummulites 189, 191 



Nycticejus 318, 320 



Nyctinomus 318, 320 



Nymphsea 244 



Obeliscus..lb8, 169, 171, 174, 175, 176 



Ochetodon 326 



Odostomia ^ 171 



Odontognathus 303 



Odontomyia 74 



«Ecophylla 264 



Ogaichodes 279 



Oliva 168, 169, 171, 175 



Olivella 198, 204, 208 



Onichodactylus 828 



Opetculina 190 



Opheosaurus 831, 332 



Ophichthys 284, 303 



Ophioblennius 278 



Ophisoma * 283 



Ophisomus 279 



Orbiculina 186 



Orbitoides 189 



Orchestia 146 



Ornichthys 277 



Ortha gori scus 309 



Orthite 103 



Orthoceras 205 



Ophromenus 305 



Ostracion 282, 809 



Ostrea 154, 155, 157, 160, 16*2, 



163, 164. 165, 183, 186 



Ovibos 319 



Ovis 327 



Pachycondyla 264, 271 



Pachyoathus 282 



Pachypt erus 281 



Pachyurus 283 



Pagoiny.« 819, 320. 324 



Pagophilus 319.320,324, 327 



Paludina 169, 192, 334 



Panicum 251 



Pandora. ..155, 157, 158, 162. 164, 



165, 183, 186 

 Panop8ea...l55, 157, 159, 160, 165, 186 



Pantolambda 96 



Papilio 239 



Patella 171 



Paxillus 234 



Pecten 154, 155, 157, 160, 163, 



164, 165 



Pectunculus 154, 156, 158, 160 



Pega-us 309 



Pelecanus 109 



Pentaroge 277 



Percis 806 



Periptychus 96, 297 



Perissolax 197, 204, 206 



Perna 158, 160, 186 



Perognathus 319 



Petaloconchus 168, lfc9, 171 



Petricola 155, 158, 160, 162 



Petromyzon 307, 308 



Petronason 274 



Pheidole 268 



Phenacodus 96 



Philomicus 236 



Phimothyra 383 



Phobetor 278 



Phoca 319, 320, 324, 327 



Phoethoninichthys 273 



Pholadomya 155. 157, 159, 160 



Pholas 155, 157, 159, IbO, 163, 



164, 165, 166 



Phreoryctes...i 146 



Phyllodactylus 333 



Phyllopteryx 283, 309 



Physa 334 



Phytocollite 68 



Pimelodus 281 



Pinna 241 



Pinus 114 



Placunanomia 199 



Placunomia 154, 162 



Planorbis 169, 236, 834 



Platophrys 280 



Plat yean thus 282 



Platycrinu? 17 



Platygaster 280 



Platygonus 301 



Platylepes 276 



Platypterus 277 



Platysomus 276 



Platygquiilus 282 



Platysiacus 281 



Platysternum 332 



Plectorhynchus 304 



Plestiodoii 331 



Pleuromeris 156 




INDEX TO GENEKA. 



405 



Pleuronectes 280, 304 



Pleurotoma 168, 169, 171, 173 



Plicatula .154, 156, 158, 160 



Plotus 109 



Plumatella 223, 244, 253, 262 



Pogonomyrmex 269 



Polycanthus 275 



Polycaulus 277 



Polyergus...., 268 



Polynemus 307 



Polyodon 308 



Polypterus 307 



Polyrhachis 264 



Portulaca 221 



Poramya 159 



Po t eriocrinus 18, 33 



Priacanthus 305 



Pristis 308 



Procyon...ll5, 129, 131, 318, 320, 321 



Prosopadasys 277 



Proteus 328 



Protogonia 96 



Prunus 218 



Psammocola 155 



Psetta. 280, 304 



Pseudeutropius 281 



Pseudobranchus 328 



Pseudoliva 198, 204, 208 



Pseudomyrma 265 



Psilocephalus 283 



Psilonotu? 283, 284 



Psilosomus 284 



Pterichthyg 277 



Pterocephala ... 282 



Pterois 277. 304 



Pteroleptus 277 



Pteronotus 281 



Pteroplatea 308 



Ptcropterus 277, 284 



Pterurus 283 



Ptychoceras 205 



Ptychosalpinx 168, lti9, 171 



Purpura 168, 225 



Pusichthys 281 



Putorius 326, 327 



Pyramidella 169, 171 



Pyrophyllite 55 



Pyxicola 252, 2oo 



Quercus 110, 218 



Rabdophorus 373 



Raja 308 



Rana 329 



Ranella 168, 169, 173, 175, 176 



Rangia 155,156, 158, 163 



Rangifer 319, 320 



Raniceps 304 



Ranodon 828 



Ranzania 309 



Rataboura 283 



Regalecus 304 



Reithrodon 3l9, 320, 321 



Rhamnus 217 



Rhinecanthus 282 



Rhinesonnis 282 



Rhinobatus 308 



Rhinochilus 333 



Rhomboidichthys 280 



Rhombus i80 



Rhus 217 



Rimella 198, 204, 208 



Rotella 171 



Rupellia 279 



Rupiscartes 278 



Rupisuga 284 



Saccomys 319 



Sagitta 102 



Salarias 278 



Salisburia 9 



Salmo 307 



Salmophasia , 279 



Sarcodaces 307 



Sarcothraustes 299 



Sauromalus , 333 



Saxicava 159, 160, 165, 166, 186 



Scalaria...l68, 16 , 171, 173, 174, 



175, 176, 198 



Scalops 318 



Scapanus 318 



Scaphiocrinus 27 



Scaphiopus 329 



Scartelaos 279 



Scarus 305 



Schilbe 281 



Schilbeichtjjys 281 



Sciaena 306 



Sciuropterus 319, 320 



Sciurus 319, 320 



tcoli'hus 12, 93 



Scophthalmus 280 



Scotopbilus 318, 320 



Scomber 306 



Scomberomorus 306 



Scombroides 306 



Scorpiena 304 



Scrophicepbalus 284 



Semnopithecus 323 



Sepdfer )99, 241 



Serpentine 36 



Serranichthys 272 



Serranus 273, 305 



Setipinna 280 



Sidera 303 



Sieboldia 328 



Sigaretus 173 



Sigmodon 319 




406 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Silondia 281 



Silonia 281 



Siren 328 



Solariella 208 



Solarium 168, 171, 173, 174 



Solea 304 



Solecurtus 103, 155, 157, 163, 164 



Solegnathus 283 



Solen...93, 103, 155, 157, 159, 160, 



163, 164, 166, 183, 198 



Solena 198 



Solenopsis 268 



Somileptes 281 



Sonora 333 



Sorex 318, 319 



Sparus 305, 306 



Sparisoma 274 



Spatularia 308 



Spea 329 



Spermophilus 319, 320, 324, 327 



Sph^rella 158 



Sphene 48 



Sphinx 237 



Sphyrsena 307 



Sphyrna 282 



Spirifer 29 



Spirocrypta ...198, 203 



Spongilla 70 



Squalius 307 



Squalus 308 



Siandella 155, 162 



Steatite.... 36 



t^'tegostoma 308 



Stenamma 265 



St^nogyra 285 



Siibiconite 40 



Stilbite 288 



Streptaxis 235 



Strigilla 155, 157, 162, 164 



Sturisoma 281 



Stygogenes 281 



Stylephorus 303, 304 



Succinea 235 



Synancia 277, 304 



Syngnalhus 309 



Synotus 318 



Taenioides 304 



Talinum 221 



Tamias 319, 320, -327 



Tapes 199, 203 



Taphrocampa 1.'43 



Tarandup 324, 327 



Taxidea 319 



Taxocrinus 17, 28 



Tellina....l55, 156, 158. 160, 162. 



164, 165. 199,200, 2 »2 



Terebra 168,169, 173, 211 



Terebratulina 206 



Teredo 159 



Termes 266 



Tetragnatha 256 



Tetramorium 259, 267 



Tetraroge 277 



Tetrosomus 282 



Teuthis 306 



Thalassarctos 323 



Thalliurus.: 275, 305 



Thalossoma 274, 275, 305 



Thomomys 319 



Thomsonite 289 



Thracia 158 



Thuja 110 



Tilesia 280 



Topaz 261 



Tourmaline 71, 149 



Trachicephalus 277 



Trachichthys 307 



Trachinus 276 



Trachynotus 306 



Triacanthus 282 



Trichecus 319, 320, 324, 327 



Trichoderma 283 



Trichopus 305 



Trichosoma 277, 280 



Trichosomus : 277 



Triforis 171 



Trigla 307 



Trigonia 205 



Triisodon 297, 298 



Trimorphodon 333 



Triton 204, 208 



Tritonium 197, 213 



Triurus 279, 303 



Trivia 168, 169, 174, 175 



Trochita 171, 173, 204. 208 



Trochus 168, 169, 171, 173 



Trophon 171, 173 



Tropidonotus 330 



Tubella 14 



Tubularia 262 



Turbinella 173 



Turbo 171, 173 



Turbonilla 169, 173 



Turdus 221 



Turrilites 205 



TuT-ris 197 



Turritella 168, 169, 171, 173, 198 



Typhis 173, 197, 204, 209 



Uintalherium 295 



Ulmus 218 



Uloborus 2-56 



Unia 333 



Upeneus 306 



Urichihys 274 



Uriphffiton 273 



Urnatella 253 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



40t 



Urosalpinx 168,171, 173, 175, 176 



Urotrichus 318, 319, 320, 323, 327 



Ursus 138, 286, 319, 320, 327 



Ustilago 251 



Uta 333 



Vaginicola 262 



Valisneria 260, 261 



Valvata 334 



Valvula 173 



Variola 273 



Venericardia 196 



Venus 155, 156, 158, 160, 162, 



164, 165, 166, 186 



Vermetus 168, 171 



Verticaria 333 



Verticordia 156 



Vespertilio 318, 319, 320 



Viburnum 218 



Viginulus 236 



Vivipara 171, 334 



Voluta 168, 169, 171, 173 



Vulpes 318, 319. 327 



Whitneya 198 



Xantusia 331 



Xiphasia 276 



Xiphias 304 



Xiphichthys 276 



Xyrichthys 305 



Yoldia 155, 156, 158, 159, 162, 



163, 164, 165 



Zilophus 319, 320, 323, 327 



Zanclurus 275 



Zebra8on[ia...., 276 



Zeolite 289 



Zeus 304 



Zircon 50 



Zoisite 288 



Zonichthys 276 



Zyphothyca 275 




408 



INDEX. 



GENERAL INDEX 



Additions to Library, 37-5. 



Additions to Museum, 3fi9. 



Allen, Harrison. The Muscles of the 

 limbs of the Raccoon (Procyon 

 lotor), 111, 115: Distribution of 

 Nerves, 187; Vitality of fresh-water 

 Polyps, 223 ; Asymmetry of Turbi- 

 nated Bones, 239 : Irregularities of 

 the dental arch, 310. 



Allen, Wm.H. Announcement of death 

 of, 225. 



Amendment to By-Laws, Chap. V. 

 Art. 4, 289. 



Arango, Rafael. Description of new 

 species of terrestrial mollusca of 

 Cuba, 105. 



Binder, Jacob. Election as Curator, 

 148. 



Bridges, Robert. Announcement of 

 death of, 71. 



Canby, Wm. M Liquid exudations in 

 Akebia and Mahonia, 113. 



Carpenter, Samuel P. Announcement 

 of death of, 149. 



Comly. Isaac. Announcement of death 

 of, 261. 



Cope, Edw. D. On tbe Condylarthra, 

 95; On Uintatherium, Bathmodon 

 and Triisodon, 289, 294 ; On remains 

 of Horses, 291. 



Craig. Andrew C. Announcement of 

 death of, 149. 



Darwin, Chas. R. Announcement of 

 death of, and resolutions regarding, 

 104. 



Day, L. T. The species of Odontomya 

 found in the United States, 15, 74. 



Dickeson, M. W. 



death of, 104. 

 Draper, .John W. 



death of, 71. 

 Eastlake, T. W. 



Announcement of 



Announcement of 



kongensis, 223,231. 



Conchologia Hong- 



Elections during 1882, 368. 



Emien, J. Norris. Announcement of 

 death of, 261 . 



Foote, A. E. On the Stalactites of 

 Luray Cave, 48 ; A new locality for 

 Sphene, 49 ; A new locality for 

 Hyalite, 49 • Note on Autunite, 49 ; 

 A new mineral from Canada, 58. 



Ford, John. Menaccanite from Fair- 

 mount Park, 40. 



Forsyth, John. Announcement of 

 death of, 301. 



Haldeman, S. S. Presentation of por- 

 trait of, 15. 



Haly. Mrs. S. J. Haldeman. Vote of 

 thanks to, 15. 



Heilprin, Angelo. On the occurrence 

 of Ammonites in deposits of Tertiary 

 Age, 94; On the relative Ages and 

 Classification of the Post-Eocene 

 Tertiary Deposits of the Atlantic 

 Slope, 149, 150; On the occurrence 

 of Nummulitic Deposits in Florida 

 and the Association of Nummulites 

 with a fresh-water Fauna, 187, 189 ; 

 On the age of the Tejon Rocks of 

 California and the occurrence of 

 Ammonitic Remains in Tertiary De- 

 posits, 187, 196 ; On the value of the 

 Nearclic as one of the primary zoo- 

 logical regions, 290, 316 ; Report of 

 Professor of Invertebrate Palaeon- 

 tology, 365. 



Henszey, Wm.C. Report of Treasurer, 

 356. 



Hess, Robert J. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, 360. 



Horn, Geo. H. Report of Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 351. 

 Index lo Genera, 399. 

 Jefferis, W. W. Quartz Crystals from 

 Newark, Delaware, 57 ; A peculiar 

 twinned garnet. 58. 




INDEX. 



409 



Julien, Alexis A. The genesis of Crys- 

 talline Iron-Ores, 335. 



Keller, H. A. Titaniferous Garnet, 54. 



Kenderdine, Robert S. Announcement 

 of death of, and resolutions regard- 

 ing. 100. 



Koenig. Geo. A. Notes on Monazite, 

 15 ; Orthite from Amelia C. H., Va., 

 103; Notes on Zeolites from Delaware 

 County, 288. 



Leidy, Joseph. Remarks on some 

 rock specimens. 10 ; Filaria of the 

 Black 13ass, 69 ; On Tourmalines, 

 71 • On Balanoglossus. 93 ; Scoli- 

 thus in gravel, 93 ; On Sagitta, etc.. 

 102 ; On some Entozoa of Birds, 109 ; 

 On a Coprolite and'ji pebble resem- 

 bling an Indian hammer, 109; On 

 Bacillus anthracis, 145 ; On Enchy- 

 traeus, Distichopus and their para- 

 sites, 145 ; The yellow ant with its 

 Hocks of Aphis and Coccus, 148 : 

 (/olorless Garnet and Tourmaline, 

 149 ; On Balanus. etc., at Bass Rock, 

 Mass., 224 ; Rotifera without Rotary 

 Organs, 237, 243 ; On the Tobacco- 

 worm, 237 ; A new Infusorian be- 

 longing to the Genus Pyxicola, 252; 

 Aciinosphrerium Eichhornii, 26U ; 

 On topaz and biotite, 2(Jl ; On Acti- 

 nospha?rium, etc., 261 ; On Tubu- 

 laria, etc , from Atlantic City, 262; 

 On remains of Horses, 290 ; On an 

 extinct Peccary, 301. 



Lewis, Graceanna. Nest ef Chsetura 

 pelasgia, 216. 



Lewis, H. Carvill. Pseudomorphs of 

 Serpentine after Dolomite, 36 ; New 

 localities for Barite, 38 ; On a new 

 ore of Antimony, 38; Oq a fault in 

 the trias near Yardleyville, Penna., 

 40; New locality for Gypsum, 48; 

 Note on Halotrichite, 50; On twin 

 crystals of Zircon, 50 ; On two new 

 localities of Columbite, 51 ; On the 

 occurrence of Fahlunite near Phila- 

 delphia, 51 ; On a mineral resem- 

 bling Dopplerite from the Peat-beds 

 at Scranton, Pa., 52 ; Note on Aqua- 

 creptite, 56 ; An American locality 

 for Helvite, 100; On pliocene man, 

 292 ; Some Enclosures in Muscovite, 

 311 ; Report of I'rofessor of Miner- 

 alogy, 367. 



Long, ,Mrs. Eleanor P. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 187. 



Lovering, Jos. S. Announcement of 

 death of, 301. 



McCook, Rev. II. C. Variations in the 

 nest forms of the Furrow Spider, 

 Epeira strix, 97 : Election as Vice- 

 President, 148; Snares of Orb- 

 weaving Spiders, 251, 254; On the 

 habits of the Ant-lion, 258 ; Ants as 

 beneficial insecticides, 261, 26 i. 



Marsh, Benjamin V. Announcement 

 of death of. 261. 



Martindale, Isaac C. Resolutions on 

 death of Dr. Kenderdine, 100. 



Meehan, Thomas Fruiting of Ginko 

 biloba, 9 ; The relation of Heat to 

 the sexes of Flowers, 89 ; Historical 

 notes on Arbor VitEB, 110; Influence 

 of Heat on the separate sexes of 

 Flowers, 113; Individual variation 

 in Species, 114; Nest of Chietura 

 pelasgia, 215 ; Summer Migration of 

 the Robin, 221 ; Night-closing in the 

 leaves of Purslane, 2<?1 ; Colored 

 flowers in the Carrot, 221 ; Heliotrop- 

 ism in Sunflowers, 222 ; Apparent 

 bird tracks by the sea-shore, 238 ; 

 On the mode of entrance of the Spo- 

 ridia of parasitic fungi. 25 1 ; Sexual 

 characters in Cephalolaxus, 252; 

 Note on the nest of Contopus virens, 

 285 ; Note on an abnormal cabbage, 

 285 ; Earthworms drawing leaves 

 into the ground, 286; Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 362. 



Meyer, Abraham. Note on the drift 

 of Lycoming Co., Pa., 50 ; On the 

 fossil ores of Lycoming Co.. o2. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 Proceedings of the, 36. 



Mohr, Charles. On Rhus cotinoides, 

 215, 217. 



Newberry, J. S. On supposed Terti- 

 ary Ammonites, 187, 194. 



Nolan, Edw. J. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 347 ; Report of Librarian, 

 352. 



OSJcers for 1883, 367. 



Palmer, Lewis. New localities for 

 Chabazite, 38. 



Parker, Chas. F. Report of Curators, 

 355. 



Parker, G. Howard. A new locality 

 for Aquacreptite, 56. 



Potts, Edw. Three more fresh-water 

 sponges, 19; Sponges from the 

 neighborhood of Boston, 69 ; Earth- 

 worms drawing leaves into the 

 ground, 285. 



Putzeys, Jules. Announcement of 

 death of, 15. 




410 



INDEX. 



Rand, Theo. D. Notes on the geology 

 of Radnor and vicinity, 42 ; Crystal- 

 line cavities in Agate, 49 ; Discs of 

 quartz between laminae of Mica, 

 60 ; New locality for Mountain Cork, 

 66; Notes on the geology of Lower 

 Merion and vicinity, 61 ; Report of 

 Mineralo^ical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 364. 



Redfield, John H. Report of Con- 

 servator of Botanical Section, 363. 



Reinhardt, J. F. Announcement of 

 death of, 288. 



Reinhold, E. S. Pyrophilite and Alu- 

 nogen in Coal-mines, 55 ; On Diorite, 

 59. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 347. 



Report of the Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 351. 



Report of Librarian, 352. 



Report of Curators, 355. 



Report of Treasurer, 356. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 359. 



Report of Conchological Section, 361. 



Report of Botanical Section, 362. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geologi- 

 cal Section, 364, 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate 

 Palajontology, 365. 



Report of Professor of Mineralogy, 

 366. 



Roberts, S. R. Report of Cojachological 

 Section, 361. 



Rogers, Wm. B. Announcement of 

 death of, 149. 



Robinson, Thos. A. Election to Coun- 

 cil, 148. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W. Biograph- 

 ical notice of Dr. Robert Bridges, 

 71, 226 ; Biographical notice of Wm. 

 S. Vaux, 111. 



Schiiffer, Chas. R. Election as Curator, 

 104 ; Resignation as Curator, 260. 



Schwann, Theo. Announcement of 

 death of, 71. 



Sharpless, Chas. L. Announcement 

 of death of, 188. 



Skinner, H. Scent organ of Papilio, 

 239. 



Smith, Aubrey H. A new station for 

 Corema Conradii, 15, 35. 



Stearns, R. E. C. Verification of the 

 Habitat of Conrad's Mytilus bifur- 

 catus, 237, 241. 



Swain, Jos. A review of Swainson's 

 Genera of Fishes, 261, 272; An 

 identification of the species of fishes 

 described in Shaw's General Zool- 

 ogy, 289, 303. 



Swift, Jos. Announcement of death 

 of, 188. 



Troschel, F. H. Announcement of 

 death of, 288. 



Vaux, William S. Announcement of 

 death of, and biographical notice of, 

 111. 



Warden, R. B. Some ochreous deposits 

 of Kentucky and Indiana, 57. 



Wheatley, Chas. M. Some new Penn- 

 sylvania mineral localities, 36 ; An- 

 nouncement of death of, 111. 



Williams, Henry S. New Crinoids from 

 the rocks of the Chemung Period of 

 New York State, 15, 17. 



Wortman, Jacob. Remarks on Ursus 

 amplidens, 286. 












QH Academy of natural sciences 



1 of Philadelphia 

 A 2 Proceedings 



V.34 



&Medic«J 

 5eri*U 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



STORAGE 



JSkiL 





