

:iw 



'My 







; '. '?'^ .•.' '.-. ' 









PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1892. 



COMMITTEE OF PUBLICATION. 



John H. Redfield, Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., 



Thomas Meehan, Angelo Heilprin, 



Charles E. Smith. 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1893. 






Academy of Natural Sciences op Philadelphia. 



February 22, 1893. 



I hereby certify that copies of the Proceedings for 1892 have been presented 

 at the meetings of the Academy as follows : — 



Pages 



PHILADELPHIA I 

 BINDER * KELLY, PRINTERS. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



fVith reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Banks, Nathan. The Spider Fauna of the Upper Cayuga Lake Basin (Plates 



I, II, III, IV, V) , 11 



Brown, Amos P. The Development of the Shells in the Coiled Stage of 



Baculites compressus Say (Plate IX) 136 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Observations upon the Brain of the Gorilla 



(Plates XI, XIII) 203 



Cope, Edw. D. A Contribution to a Knowledge of the Fauna of the Blanco 



Beds of Texas 226 



The Batrachia and Reptilia of Northwestern Texas 331 



Fox, William J. Report on the Hymenoptera Collected in West Greenland. 133 



Greene, Edward L. Eclogre Botanicce, No. 1 357 



Hoffman, Horace Addison, and David Starr Jordan. A Catalogue of the 

 Fishes of Greece, with notes on the names now in use, and those era- 

 ployed by Classical Authors ; 230 



Ives, J. E. A new Species of Pycnogonum from California (Plate X) 142 



Keller, Ida A., Ph. D. The Phenomenon of Fertilization in the Flowers of 



Monarda fistulosa (Plate XV) 452 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants No. 7. (On 

 the Vitality of some Annual Plants; On Self-pollination in Amsonia 

 Tabernsemontana; On a special form of Cleistogamy in Polygonum acre ; 

 On the Direction of Growth in Cryptogamic Plants ; Tricarpellary 

 Umbellifers; A Mode of Variation in Stellaria media; On the Sexes 

 of the Holly; On the Stamens of Ranunculus abortivus; On the 

 Character of the Stamens in Ornithogalum umbellatum ; Note on Bar- 



barea in Connection with Dichogamy.) 160 



Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants, No. 8. (Euphrasia offici- 

 nalis: Notes on Gaura and CEnothera; The Carpellary Structure of 

 Nymph^a ; On the Sexual Characters of Rhus ; Rubus chamremorus ; 

 Dalibarda repens ; On some Morphological Distinctions in the Genera 

 ofEricacea;; Vitality of Seeds; Lysimachiaatropurpurea; Campanula 

 rotundifolia ; Cornus Canadensis ; Aralia hispida; Luzula campestris ; 

 Cakile Americana; Hypericum ellipticum ; Trifolium hybridum ; 

 Lalhyrus maritimus ; Lonicera coerulea; Raphanus sativus; On the 

 Nature of the Verrucse in some Convolvuiacere ; Polygonum cilinode ; 



Aster tatarica) 3(j6 



Notes on Monarda fistulosa 449 




Peary, Robert E. Report of the Operations of the North Greenland Expedi- 

 tion of 1891-1892 342 



Pilsbry, H. A. New and untigured UnionidK (Plates VII and VIII) 131 



On the Anatomy of Sagda, Cysticopsis, .^gista and Dentellaria (Plate 



XJII) 213 



Notes on a Collection of Shells from the State of Tabasco, Mexico (Plate 



XIV) 338 



Preliminary Outline of a new Classification of the Helices 387 



Rand, Theodore D., William W. Jefferis and J. T. M. Cardeza, M. D. Min- 

 eral Localities of Philadelphia and Vicinity 174 



Rhoads, Samuel N. The Birds of Southeastern Texas and Southern Arizona 



observed during May, June and July, 1891 98 



Ryder, John A. On the Mechanical Genesis of the Scales of Fishes 219 



The Principles of the Conservation of Energy in Biological Evolution : 

 a Reclamation and Critique 455 



Scott, W. B. A Revision of the North American Creodonta, with notes on 



some Genera which have been referred to that Group 291 



The Evolution of the Premolar Teeth in the Mammals 405 



Skinner, Henry, M. D., and Levi W. Mengel. Greenland Lepidoptera 156 



Stone, Witmer. Birds Collected by the West Greenland Expedition 145 



Walker, Ernest. The Autosporadic Seeds of Oxalis stricta 288 



Wistar, Isaac J. Remarks on the Quantity, Rate of Consumption and prob- 

 able Duration of North American Coal, and the consequence to Air- 

 breathing Animals of its entire Consumption ,.'..... 82 



Wright, G. Frederick. Extra-Morainic Drift in the Susquehanna, Lehigh 



and Delaware Valleys 469 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1892. 



January 5, 1892. 

 The President, Gen. Isaac J. Wistae, in the chair. 

 Three hundred and eighty persons present. 



The death of Edward K. Tryon, a member, January 2, was 

 announced. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year: — 



On Library. — W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D., Henry C. 

 Chapman, M. D., Gavin W. Hart, Charles P. Perot and J. Bernard 

 Brinton, M. D. 



On Publications. — John H. Redfield, Charles E. Smith, Angelo 

 Heilprin, Thomas Meehan and Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Charles Morris, Isaac C. 

 Martindale, Harold Wingate, Geo. A. Rex, M. D. and J. Bernard 

 Brinton, M. D. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — W. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger, ^l. D., Theodore D. Rand, Isaac C. ]N[artindale and 

 Isaac J. Wistar. 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Mr. H. G. Bryant, by invitation, delivered an address on his 

 recent journey though Labrador to the Grand Falls. (No abstract). 



January 12. 

 The President, Gen. Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Fifty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " Report on the Hymenoptera collected in 

 AVest Greenland," by AVm. J. Fox, was presented for publication. 



The President, having resigned the chair to Mr. Meehan, read a 

 paper entitled " Remarks on the quantity, rate of consumption and 

 probable duration of North American Coal and the consequences 

 to air-breathing animals of its entire combustion" which was then 

 presented for puI)lication. 



January 10. 

 jNIr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



January 26. 

 The President, Gen. Isaac J. AVistar, in the chair. 

 One hundred and thirty-seven persons present. 

 A paper entitled " Observations upon the brain of the Gorilla " 

 by Henry C. Chapman M. D., was presented for publication. 



The Rev. R. H. Nassau, by invitation, made a communication 

 on the natural history of the Gorilla and on the capture of the 

 specimens in the collection of the Academy. (No abstract). 



A resolution was adopted authorizing the sending to Greenland 

 of a Peary Relief Expedition and appointing Prof. Angelo Heilprin 

 leader of the same. 



The following were elected members: — James D. Winsor, 

 James S. de Benneville, Charlemagne Tower, Jr., H. H. Furness, Jr. 

 Theo. P. Matthews, Joseph P. Remington, Thomas C. Price, Charles 

 Liebeck, Charles W. Johnson, Benjamin Chew Tilghman, Joseph 

 AV. Hawley, J. E. Ives and A. Jahn. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



THE SPIDER FAUNA OF THE UPPER CAYUGA LAKE BASIN. 

 BY NATHAN BANK.'^. 



In the list given below are contained all the species of spiders known 

 to occur in or near Ithaca. The region examined has no exact 

 limits. It may best be defined as the Upper Cayuga Lake Basin. 

 It embraces the country drained by the streams which flow into the 

 head of the Cayuga Lake. The shores of the Lake have been ex- 

 amined only for a short distance : on the west side for ten miles to 

 Traghanic ; on the east about four miles to Burdick's Glen. A 

 large share of the collecting has been done in the beds of the gorges 

 and in the swamps. Of these, those most carefully examined are 

 as follows: of the gorges, Fall, Cascadilla, Six Mile and Buttermilk 

 Creek ; of the swamps, Inlet ]\Iarsh, Beebe Island and South Hill 

 Marsh. Collecting in the other localities has not been so thorough. 

 The collecting began in the spring of 1888 and has lasted about two 

 years. From these facts it may be seen that the list is not at all 

 complete. 



The collecting has been done chiefly by myself although others 

 have occasionally given me specimens. To them I am deeply 

 indebted, both for the specimens and for the encouragement they 

 have shown me. Those who have especially aided me are Mr. G. 

 Van Ingen, Mr. H. Hicks, Mr. A. D. MacGilHvray, Mr. H. W. 

 Norris and Mr. Brace. 



To Prof. L. ^I. Underwood, of Syracuse University, I am under 

 the deepest of obligations. AVere it not that he kindly lent me 

 much literature on the subject, this paper could not have been 

 written. To the Eev. Dr. H. C. McCook, of Philadelphia, I wish 

 to express my thanks for the work done upon the Epeiridie. To J. H. 

 Eraerton I am deeply indebted for much hel{) in determining 

 several species, and to Prof. J. H. Comstock, under whose direction 

 the paper has been wa-itten, for much kindly assistance and en- 

 couragement. 



The country is very diversified, low lands and high hills, marshes, 

 creeks forming beautiful gorges, bare rocky cliffs and mud- 

 bottoms. The climate is as varied as the country. These facts, 

 with its flora and insect fauna, account for the large number of 

 spiders. Diversity of country is of course more favorable to ground 

 spiders than to web-building ones ; so it will be noticed that the pro- 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



portion is greater in the Lycosidie than in the Epeiridse when com- 

 pared with the Xew England fauna. 



Several bibliographies of American spiders are easily accessible. 

 The American Naturalist for November, 1887, contains a quite 

 complete one by Prof Underwood. Bulletin No. 19 of the U.S. 

 Department of Agriculture also contains a list of the more important 

 works. Many of the early descriptions are worthless and may never 

 be identified. I have not thought Walckenaer's names worth using. 

 Some of Hentz's species Avill probably never be determined. Some 

 later writers have occasionally been careless in describing species. 



The list here submitted will compare favorably with others, as 

 may be seen by the following : — 



Cayuga Lake, bv Banks, (1890) 363 species 



Great Britian, by Cambridge, (1874) 457 " 



Sweden, by Westriug, 308 " 



Italy, 404 " 



France, by Simon, (1874) about, 1000 " 



Austria, bv Doleschal, (1867) 205 " 



Prussia, bv Ohlert, (1867) 188 " 



Tyrol, (1867) 233 " 



Vicinity of Prague, bv Prach, (1866) 119 " 



Spiders of Trem, by Canestrini, (1875) 243 " 



Catalogue of Spiders of Switzerland, by Pavesi, (1875) 285 " 



Spiders of AVestphalia, by Karsch, (1874) 154 " 



South Russian Spiders, by Thorell, (1875) 303 " 



Emerton has published lists of the New England forms of seven 

 families ; they compare with the Ithaca fauna as follows : — 



New England. Ithaca. 



species. 42 species. 



43 



124 



14 



43 



17 







It will be seen from these comparisons that the vicinity of Ithaca 

 is a very fertile locality for spiders. 



Classification is only possible when many links are lost. 

 Among the spiders as they exist in this locality certain groups are 

 quite definite, while others are closely related. The Lycosidse 

 and Attida; are distinct both from each other and from the 

 other families. The Thomisidte are also easily separated. The 

 Epeiridee and Therididse can be separated, yet Meta is almost as 




1892.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHEA. 13 



near to one as to the other. But the Drassidse, Agalenidie and Cin- 

 iflonidae are very closely related to each other and to the Therididse. 

 I have not thought the Ciniflonidfe a group of sufficient distinctness 

 to be recognized as a family. The existence of a calaniistrum and 

 cribelluni in Hypochilus tlwrelli shows that this character does not 

 indicate close relationship. And besides, the Ciniflonida? comprises 

 two well-defined sub-families, one of which may be near the Epei- 

 ridse and the other is very close to the Agalenidic. So I have 

 divided the Ciniflonidte and placed them in these two families. 



Still it may sometimes be necessary to use artificial characters for 

 a division. I have separated the Drassidse and Agalenidjc accord- 

 ing by the number of tarsal claws. Some species which have been 

 classed as Agalenidse may, by the division, fall into the Drassidse ; 

 yet the two families are so closely related that such forms will not 

 mar, to any great extent, thesimiliarity of structure of the Drassidse. 



The Attidae appear to be very high if not the highest. The 

 Drassidje, I think, are- the lowest. The Epeiridae were probably 

 developed from the Theridida?, the Therididae from the Agalenidfe 

 and these from the Drassidse. 



As I have not had access to several important European works, the 

 sequence of genera adopted is merely provisional, and I have not 

 felt at liberty to introduce changes in classification. Not all the 

 material obtained has been described ; this is especially the case 

 with certain young forms, which have been left with the hope of 

 getting the adult stage. 



KEY TO FAMILIES. 



1. Lung slits four, or two lung slits and two spira- 

 cles just behind them, 2 

 Lung slits two, the spiracles not just behind 



them ; mandibles articulated vertically, 4 



2. Eyes eight, 3 

 Eyes six, Dysderid.e. 



3. With extra spinning organs, Hypociiilid.e. 

 Without extra spinning organs, Myijalid.e. 



4. Eyes equal or subequal, in two rows, 6 

 Eyes eight, unequal, in three or four rows, 5 



5. Eyes in three or four rows ; if three rows, two 

 middle of first row largest, second row smallest ; 

 if four rows, first row largest, third row 



smallest, Attid.e. 



Eyes in three or four rows, first row of four or 



two small eyes, second or third row of large 



eyes^ Lycosid.k. 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



6. Tarsi with two claws, no web, 7 

 Tarsi with three claws, usually a web, 8 



7. Second pair of legs as long or longer than the 



fourth, all eyes diurnal, Thomisid^. 



Second pair' of legs not &o long as fourth, only 



anterior yi. E. diurnal, Deassid.e. 



8. Hind spinnerets longer than others and of two 

 joints^ ; or else extra spinning organs and an- 

 terior eyes equal and the front S. E. colorless, Agalenidje. 

 Hind spinnerets of but one joint ; when extra 



spinning organs are present then front S. E. are 



smaller than front M. E. and dark in color, 9 



9. Inner angle of inaxill?e rounded, else with ex- 

 tra spinning organs, with an orb web, EpeiPvID^. 

 Inner angle of maxillse not rounded, with an 



irregular web, Theridid.e. 



Micaria longipes Em. 



Rare. Heustis St. and Fall Creek, Aug. 

 Micaria formicoides, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 51. 



Total length, 9 



Length of cephalothorax 2* mm. 



Length of al)domen 2-9 mm. 



Length of sternum l-05mm. 



Length of femur I 1*2 mm. 



Length of femur IV 1*7 mm. 



Cephalothorax dark yellow-brown, with a large V-shaped mark at 

 end of cephalic portion ; behind this the thoracic part is veined 

 with golden metallic scales. Cephalic part darker, near eyes cov- 

 ered with iridescent scales ; hair brownish. Mandibles yellow- 

 red-brown, lighter at apex ; basal joints of palpi similar, distal 

 joints light yellow ; mouth parts and sternum red-brown with scat- 

 tered long white hairs. Coxse light yellow-brown, hind ones lightest ; 

 trochanter similar but with a dark stripe before and behind. 

 Femora I and II yellow-brown, darkest at base; other joints light 

 yellow with scattered white hairs and many brown scale-like spines. 

 Coxse III and IV with a patch of white scales above ; femora red- 

 brown, other joints lighter. Femur III with three stripes of white 

 scales one above, one in front, and one behind ; femur IV with one 

 white stripe above ; patella and tibia III and IV with a Avhite stripe 

 of scales above. Abdomen dark, covered with iridescent scales 

 above and below ; near base a broadly interrupted band of white, 



^This point is difficult to see in Cybceus. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



behind this the scales are somewhat golden or dark brown accord- 

 ing to the light. Near the middle of the abdomen there is on each 

 side a patch of white, behind this the scales are dark-brown or 

 golden according to the light. The apical third of abdomen is 

 black or nearly colorless according to the light. Sides are golden 

 or brown, with a white oblique band at constriction of abdomen. 

 Venter with bright colored scales, in certain light the basal ones are 

 reddish-purple, the apical ones golden. Hairs long, dark, scattered. 

 Epigynum reddish, spinnerets dark red-brown. Cephalothorax 

 highest in middle ; sternum sharp-pointed behind, rounded in front, 

 widest at second cosse. Abdomen with a deep transverse furrow 

 somewhat in front of middle, and which doesuot intersect the upper 

 side margin ; a slight constriction in the sides at the same points ; 

 epigynum as figured. 



Rare. 14th Sept. Fall Creek on Solidago with reddish ants of 

 same size, which it greatly resembles. 

 Thargalia agilis, nov. pp. Plate I, fig. 52 and 52a. 



Total length 9 9-4mm. 



Length of cephalothorax oGmra. breadth 2*oram. 



Length of abdomen (r mm. breadth 3'6mm. 



Length of sternum TOmm. breadth l"3mm. 



Length of femur I 2"7mm. tibia I 2* mm. 



Length of femur IV 3" mm. tibia IV 2"7mm. 



Cephalothorax jet black with a few white plumose hairs; mandi- 

 bles dark reddish-brown ; sternum brownish-black ; labium and 

 maxillae reddish-brown, whitish at tips; palpi reddish-brown; all 

 coxte reddish-brown ; all femora darker brow'n ; other joints of first 

 and second pairs of legs light yellow-brown ; other joints of hind 

 two pairs as dark as the femora, except the tarsi which are lighter. 

 Abdomen black, shining, with scattered whitish jdumose haii-s, more 

 reddish beneath with hairs more numerous and less plumose ; spin- 

 nerets dark. Cephalothorax not much higher in middle than in 

 front; rounded in front and behind; upper row of eyes procurved ; 

 lower row nearly straight ; Isl. E. of upper row nearer S. E. than 

 each other ; same with lower ]\I. E. ; quadrangle of ]\[. E. higlier 

 than broad ; maxillre convex ; labium * length of maxilho ; epigy- 

 num as figured; no spine on front side of fourth hind patelho. 



Not uncommon. Six Mile Creek. 



Thargalia perplexa, nov. sp. Plate I, fig?. 53, 53a, and 53b. 



Total length 9 8- mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3-3mm. breadth 2-3mm. 




16 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Length of abdomen 4"6mm. 



Length of sternum l-8mm. 



Length of femur I 2"]mm- 



Length of femur IV 3' mm. 



breadth 2"9mni. 



breadth r2mm. 



tibia I l*8mm. 



tibia IV 2-4mm. 



Cephalothorax uniform reddish-brown with a few scattered white 

 plumose hairs ; mandibles more reddish ; mouth parts light reddish- 

 brown, whitish at tips, sternum similar to mandibles ; coxse yellow- 

 brown, first pair darkest ; palpi brown at base, yellowish towards 

 apex ; all femora red-brown, those of III and IV with some whitish 

 hairs; other joints of I and II light; the tibia a little greenish, 

 tarsus a little brownish ; tibiae and patellae III and IV similar to 

 femora, tibia a little lighter at extreme tip ; metatarsus darker ; 

 tarsus lighter. Abdomen red-brown, with many plumose hairs, 

 usuallv black, but two sjiots and a band at base white, also some 

 white scattered over middle of dorsum, and an apical band white; 

 venter red-brown with black hairs not plumose ; spinnerets red- 

 brown ; epigynum reddish. L'pper row of eyes procurved, equal in 

 size and at equal distances ; lower row almost straight, shorter than 

 upper, M. E. nearer S. E. than to each other ; the four M. E. make 

 a quadrangle wider behind than in front and much higher than 

 wide. Hind legs very long. Male similar in color, much smaller, 

 6mm. long ; the abdomen narrower than the cephalothorax ; epigy- 

 num and palpal organ as figured. 



Uncommon. 

 Thargalia fallax, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 54. 



Total length $ 



Length of cephalothorax 3' mm. 

 Length of abdomen 4* mm. 



Length of sternum l*2mm. 



Length of fumur I 2* mm. 



Length of femur IV 3" mm. 



Color of cephalothorax a uniform dark red-brown, with a few 

 plumose yellowish hairs ; mandibles and palpi same color; mouth- 

 parts red-brown, the tips whitish ; sternum black with yellow- 

 brown hairs ; coxse red-brown, first pair darkest ; femora nearly 

 black with black hairs; other joints of land II reddish-yellow; 

 other joints of III and IV red-brown. Abdomen above nearly 

 black at base, growing more red beyond till near apex it is quite 

 bright red, with some yellow plumose hairs; sides black; venter 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



red-brown with black hairs ; spinnerets red-brown. Eyes as iu T. 

 perplexa; venter with a large median quadrangular sunken space, 

 S palpi as figured. 



Two specimens in field below University. 

 Thargalia bivittata Em. 



Frequent in Six Mile Creek often among ants which it resembles, 

 Sept. 



Thargalia crocata Hentz. 



Rare, one specimen, in field near the University barn. 



Prosthesima riifula, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 55 and 55a. 



Total length 9 5'9mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2"45miri. breadth TTmni. 



Length of abdomen o"5 mm. breadth 2" mm. 



A larger 9 total length 7" mm. length of cephalo. 2"5mm. 



Cephalothorax nearly uniform reddish, the marginal seam 

 blackish ; mandibles similar, sternum more yellow in center and 

 red-brown on sides ; lip red ; maxillic yellowish ; legs red-brownish 

 yellow; epigyuum red ; under spinnerets light, upper ones nearly 

 black, abdomen above and below blue-black or blackish ; venter 

 with two narrow converging white lines. Upper row of eyes 

 scarcely longer than lower and a little procurved ; the upper M. E. 

 large and oblique ; a little black around the lower M. E. Head 

 much narrowed ; body and legs covered with black hairs ; lower 

 spinnerets the longest. 



The cocoon of this species is attached to the under side of stones ; 

 it consists of two circular sheets of silk betw^een which are placed 

 the eggs. The outer sheet is often covered with dirt or mud so as 

 to resemble the stone. 



Frequent. Sept., Oct., Fall Creek, South Hill, Heustis St. 



Prosthesima frigida, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 56, 56a. 



Total length 9 40mm. 



Length of cephalothorax l-9mm. breadth r8mm. 



Length of abdomen 2-7mm. breadth r5mm. 



Male about the same size. Cephalothorax brownish-yellow ; 

 seam black ; mandibles similar ; a little black around eyes ; a small 

 V-shaped blackish mark just in front of dorsal groove ; basal joints 

 of legs and palpi very light, nearly white ; distal joints redder ; 

 sternum yellowish, darker on sides; epigynum reddish, surrounded 

 by black ; lower spinnerets lighter than upper ; abdomen above and 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892.. 



below blackish ; ventral lines nearly parallel ; body covered with 

 black hairs. Epigyuum and palpal organs as figured ; eyes as in P. 

 rufula; cephalothorax widest behind the middle, head much nar- 

 rowed. 



Several specimens, under a stone near Fall Creek, Feb. 



Prosthesima immaculata, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 58 and oSa. 



Total length $ 61nim. 



Length of cephalothorax 23mm. breadth 2-8mm. 



Length of abdomen 3-8mm. breadth 2-2nim. 



Cephalothorax and mandibles brownish-yellow ; legs and palpi 

 paler ; sternum yellow, darker on edges ; epigynum reddish sur- 

 rounded by gray ; lower spinnerets longer and lighter colored than 

 upper ones ; abdomen above and below dark gray ; ventral lines 

 wanting; body and legs wnth blackish hairs ; a few white hairs on 

 abdomen. Upper side of coxse with many bristles ; eyes as usual ; 

 a little black in lower row ; epigynum as figured. 



Rare. Sept., Fall Creek. 



Prosthesima blanda, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 57 and 57a . 



Total length $ 7' mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3rara. breadth 2-lmm. 



Length of abdomen 4ram. breadth 2* mm. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow ; mandibles darker ; sternum 

 red brownish-yellow ; lip very dark and maxilla lighter ; legs and 

 palpi pale yellowish, brighter toward the tips ; abdomen white above 

 and below ; spinnerets similar ; lung plates yellow ; two ventral 

 lines grayish ; a yellowish spot at base of dorsum ; base of abdomen 

 densely clothed with stiff bristles ; body and legs with black hairs; 

 upper row of eyes straight, no longer than lower ; palpal organ as 

 figured. 



One specimen. 



Prosthesima atra llentz. 



A few specimens w^iich probably belong to this species, from Fall 

 Creek. 

 Prosthesima depressa Em. 



Not uncommon. Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek, Oct. 

 Prosthesima ecclesiastica Hentz. 



Frequent ; often under bark in winter. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



Prosthesima minima, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 69. 



Length 9 2-8mni. 



Cepbalotborax dull yellowish-brown ; legs pale, a little tinge of 

 greenish and brownish; eyes with black rings; sternum nearly 

 white, a little brownish, edge with stiff black hairs. Abdomen 

 above and below pure white, with black hairs which arise fiom 

 pinkish dots ; epigynum reddish ; spinnerets white, and projecting 

 beyond end of abdomen. Cephalothorax widest behind the middle, 

 narrow^ in front ; abdomen truncate at base, rounded behind ; 

 epigynum small as seen in figure. 



One specimen under a stone in Six Mile Creek, March 19. 



Poecilochroa montana Em. 



One specimen, 24 March. Buttermilk Creek. 



The cephalothorax nearly black as are the femora of the legs ; 

 the rest of the legs a much lighter brown. Received from Mr. !Mac- 

 Gillivray. 

 Poecilochroa bilineata Hentz. 



Uncommon ; under stones in Fall Creek. 

 Gnaphosa brumalis Thor. 



Not common. 

 Gnaphosa conspersa Thor. 



Common under stones. 

 Gnaphosa humilis, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 59. 



Total length 9 13" mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 5-2mra. breadth 3-9mm. 



Length of abdomen 7-8mm. breadth 4-7mra. 



Length of sternum 2-6mm. breadth 2-lmm. 



Cephalothorax reddish brown with long black hair and short 

 pubescence; mandibles darker ; sternum lighter; legs like sternum ; 

 abdomen colored as usual. Cephalothorax longer than tibia and 

 patella IV ; two spines at apex of tibia? I and II on under side, one 

 or two on tibia II near the middle ; epigynum as figured. 



This may be the G. seuclderi Thor. which Emerton considers 

 identical with G. brumalis Thor. I think my specimens are dis- 

 tinct from this latter species. Infrequent. 

 Drassus saccatus Em. 



Frequent under stones. South Hill, Six Mile Creek, Sept., 

 Oct. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Drassus humilis, nov. sp. Plate I, figs. 60 and 60a. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax o' 



Length of abdomen fr 



Cephalothorax and maudibles brownish yellow ; seam ])lack ; 

 a little black around the eyes ; sternum brownish-yellow in center, 

 darker on sides ; lip darker; maxillee yellow-brown; epigynum red- 

 dish surrounded by yellow ; venter light grayish with black hairs; 

 spinnerets yellowish ; legs pale yellowish ; dorsum dark gray with 

 several lighter chevrons and two spots near base, these are most dis- 

 tinct when wet; dor.sum with black hairs; epigynum as figured; 

 upper row of eyes procurved and longer than lower roAV which is 

 straight ; abdomen very low and flat, broadest at middle, pointed 

 behind ; legs moderately long and slender. 



Frequent under stones. South Hill. Aug. 



Clubiona obesa Hentz. Plate I, fig. 61. 



Length 9 9mm, 



Length of cephalothorax 3mm. breadth 2mni. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish ; mandibles darker yellow-brown ; 

 legs white ; sternum pale, with four dark spots on the sides, one at 

 the base of each of the four hind coxse ; abdomen pale j)inkish, 

 darkest above and with a darker median stripe which reaches to 

 the middle of the abdomen ; spinnerets white; epigynum as figured. 



One specimen. 



Clubiona tibialis Em. Plate I, fig. 62. 



Large 9 , total length 7"7nim. 



Length of cephalothorax 3"2mm. breadth 2*lmm. 



Length of abdomen 4'5mm. breadth 2.1mra. 



Small 9 is 6*lmm. long; cephalothorax 3mm. long. 



Very similar to what I have called the female of C. crassipalpis 

 Em. The cephalothorax yellow-brown, black in eye-region and on 

 clypeus ; mandibles and mouth-parts black; sternum yellowish, 

 with reddish spots on sides ; legs like sternum ; venter similar ; dor- 

 sum of abdomen more red-brown, lighter at base. Epigynum very 

 broad as in figure ; clypeus very low ; mandibles very nmch pro- 

 jecting in front of cephalothorax ; eye-region broad and low ; body 

 with white hairs ; legs with both white and black hairs. 



Two specimens from Inlet Marsh, Aug. The cocoon consists of 

 two sheets of silk connecting the edges of a blade of a large grass. 

 The eggs are placed in an inner case between the two sheets of silk. 



The mother watches the cocoon. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPHIA. 21 



Clubiona crassipalpis Keys. Plate I, fig. 63. 



One specimen which I have thought may be the female of this 

 species. 

 Clubiona canadensis Em. 



Common, often under bark. 

 Clubiona pygmea, nov. sp. Plate T, fig. 64. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 



Length of abdomen 



Similar in appearance to C. rubra Keys. Head a little darker 

 than in that species ; eye-rows not so long and eyes a little smaller ; 

 dorsum of abdomen with same spear-shaped mark and beyond this 

 reddish ; rest white ; legs and sternum and venter paler whitish, 

 sternum dark-edged; spinnerets darker than venter; abdomen a 

 little narrower than C. rubra ; epigynum quite different from that 

 species as seen in figure ; black bristles at base of abdomen not so 

 prominent as in C rubra. 



One specimen under bark. Nov., Fall Creek. 



Clubiona rubra Keys. 



One specimen. Fall Creek. Febr. 



Clubiona abbotti Koch. Plate I, figs. 65 and 65a. 



This Species is very close to C. rubra, Keys. The epigynum is 

 about the same shape, the cavities are quite distinct, more so than 

 in my specimen of C. rubra ; the $ palpi are also similar to that 

 species. The coloring is the same, except the cephalothorax is a 

 little darker and the mandibles sometimes nearly black ; abdomen 

 in one specimen wholly gray, but usually with the red basal stripe 

 and the red tip to abdomen. The smallest (? is 4 mm. long; the 

 smallest 9 is almost 5 mm. ; others are larger. The femur of the 

 $ palpus has two spines near the tip as seen in figure. 



Frequent. Fall Creek, Inlet Marsh. 

 Clubiona lenta, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 66. 



Total length 9 •*' "^"^• 



Length of cephalothorax l-3mm. breadtli i)omm. 



Length of abdomen 2^7mra. breadth l-5mm. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow, darkest in front; mandibles 

 similar but darker; legs and palpi whitish-yellow; sternum and 

 raaxilhc similar, former with red-brown edges and joints; hp 

 darker ; abdomen brownk?h-drab with a very faint trace of a redder 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



median basal stripe on dorsum ; color made up of darker and 

 lighter spots; spinnerets yellow; epigynum reddish, two distinct 

 cavities close together ; eyes occupying almost the whole of the 

 front of the cephalothorax ; legs with black spines and fine black 

 hairs ; abdomen with white hairs ; bristles at base of abdomen not 

 prominent. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, Sept. 



Clubiona americana Em. 



This is the C. ornata Em. 1890, which is preoccupied by Tborell . 

 in 1875. 



Common, often under bark in cases. 



Clubiona excepta Koch. 



Frequent, Primrose Cliffs, Beel)e Island. 

 Trachelas tranquilla Hentz {ruhei- Keys). 



Clubiona tranquilla Hentz. 



Not uncommon, Cascadilla Creek, Si.x Mile Creek. 

 Anyphaena incerta Keys. 



Uncommon, Indian Spring, Buttermilk Creek, Fall Creek, Nov., 

 Feb., March. 

 Anyphaena saltabunda Hentz. 



Uncommon, Six Mile Creek, Enfield Creek, Sept. 



Phrurolitlius minutus, nov. sp. Plate I, figs. 67, 67a and 67b. 



Total lengtii 



Length of cephalothorax 



Length of abdomen 



Cephalothorax bright yellow with a black stripe each side, which 

 meet behind, and in front through the eye-region ; extreme margin 

 also black ; abdomen yellowish white with black chevrons; sternum 

 and venter yellowish white; legs yellowish, the first tibia and 

 patella black ; epigynum reddish ; cephalothorax as broad as long, 

 very low; abdomen long; the two cavities of the epigynum are 

 close together at base and diverge, so that they are much separated 

 behind, while in P. pugnatns they are closer together at the 

 caudal part than at cephalic. 



Occasional. Fall Creek, Buttermilk Creek, Sept. 



Phrarolitbus pugnatus Em. 



Frequent under stones. Fall Creek. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



Phrurolitlius palustris, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 70. 



Total length 9 2-5-2-8mm. 



Cephalothorax yellowish, with dark stripe each side connected 

 behind ; margin black ; eyes on black ; sternum and legs similar to 

 cephalthorax, first tibia and patella a little darker ; abdomen with 

 blackish gray markings, spots on base of dorsum sometimes run 

 together, and behind these, chevrons interrupted or sub-interrnpted 

 on'sides ; venter with a few dark spots near spinnerfets and two in 

 front of these; epigynum reddish, as figured ; cephalthorax broad. 



Two specimens, Indian Spring. 



Phrurolitlius alarius Hentz. 



Frequent under stones. 

 Agroeca pratensis Em. 



Common in autumn and winter under leaves. 

 Agroeca ornata, nov. sp. Plate I, figs. 6S and 68a. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 



Length of abdomen 



Cephalothorax light yellowish, with faint blackish lines radiating 

 from the dorsal groove, hem black ; mandibles, palpi, mouth-parts, 

 sternum and legs, all light yellowish, the sternum a little brownish 

 on sides. Abdomen light yellow-brown, on hinder part of dorsum 

 two rows of short transverse brown spots, sides with some brown 

 spots and short stripes; venter immaculate; epigynum reddish; 

 spinnerets light ; eyes surrounded by black ; a faint light-brown 

 median stripe on basal part of dorsum. 



Rare. Buttermilk Creek. 



AGALENIDiE. 



Cybseus giganteus, nov. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 



Lenth of abdomen 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown, shining; mandibles similar ; legs 

 and palpi a little lighter ; under side of coxa; yellow-brown; ster- 

 num yellow-brown in center, darker and reddish-brown on sides ; 

 mouth-parts reddish-brown with tips lighter; venter gray; lung- 

 jDlates lighter; epigynum reddish; spinnerets yellowish; dorsum 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP^ [1892. 



and sides dark grayish-black, Avith a short, median, basal, light 

 stripe, not reaching to the middle of the dorsum, and each side of 

 this two oblique light spots. Abdomen covered with short black 

 hairs. Upper row of eyes nearly straight, lower recurved, so that 

 the S. E. are closer together than the M. E. ; mandibles strongly 

 convex and projecting in front of head ; head high and arched ; 

 median groove short ; from it radiate several grooves to the sides^ 

 which at the bottom are a little darker than the surrounding 

 space ; lip more than half length of maxillse, truncate at tip ; 

 sternum broad in front, pointed behind between hind coxae ; 

 legs moderately long, with many not very long, appressed, bristly, 

 black hairs, and longer black spines; four pairs of spines on under 

 side of tibia I and II ; three pairs on under side of tibia III and 

 IV ; abdomen large and thick ; widest a little beyond the middle ; 

 epigynum as figured ; hinder spinnerets not longer than front ones 

 and furnished with tubules only at the tip. 

 One specimen. 



Coelotes medicinalis Hentz. 

 Not common. 



Very similar to C. lamellosus Keys. 



Cephalothorax yellow-brown with radiating lines ; head darker ; 

 mandibles red-brown ; mouth-parts red-brown, sometimes lighter at 

 tips ; sternum, legs and j^alpi yellow ; sternum with dark edges ; 

 legs with indistinct dark rings on femora; abdomen nearly white, 

 with many dark spots and lines most numerous on dorsum, not so 

 numerous, however, as in C. longitarsus and C. altilis ; mandibles 

 not so much jjrojecting as in those species; epigynum and palpal 

 organs as figured. Many specimens, all very constant in shape of 

 the epigynum, which is quite diflferent from C. lamellosus. 



Common in woods. 



Coelotes longitarsus Em. Plate IV, fig. 73. 



The S agrees with Emerton's description and figures. What I 

 take to be 9 is different from his 9 . 



Not uncommon under leaves in autunm and winter. 




1892.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Total length 9 8' mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3-85inm. breadth 2-lmni. 



Length of abdomen 4-2 mm. breadth 2*5mm. 



The coloring is similar to the S ; the epigynum as figured. 



Coelotes altilis, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 74. Plate IV, fig. 74a. 



Total length 9 13-2mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 6" mm. breadth o*5mm. 



Length of abdomen 7'2mm. breadth 4"9mm. 



Cephalothorax yellow-brown ; head darker reddish-brown ; 

 mandibles similar ; cephalothorax with a few radiating darker 

 stripes; mouth-parts red-brown, light at tips; sternum yellow- 

 brown, darker on edges ; under side of coxae and femora light yel- 

 low-brown, rest of legs and palpi brighter yellow-brown, distal 

 joints darkest ; epigynum reddish ; spinnerets yellowish ; abdomen 

 light gray, thickly covered above and on the sides with dark spots, 

 and a few scattered spots on venter; on median line of dorsum the 

 dark so arranged as to leave several white chevrons ; abdomen with 

 short black hair; differs from C. moiitanus in shape of epigynum. 



Frequent in autumn and winter under leaves. 



Coelotes lineatus, nov. sp. 



Total length $ juv. 8'5mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3'8mm. breadth 2* mm. 



Length of abdomen -l:'8mm. breadth 2"8mm. 



One specimen of this carious species which is a young male in 

 the next to last moult. Cephalothorax yellow, with white stripe on 

 each side, and extreme margin black ; the radiating bands on 

 cephalothorax as usual ; the front roAv of eyes and S. E. of second 

 row on a black band ; each upper M. E. surrounded by a black 

 ring ; cephalothorax covered with scattered fine black hairs ; on the 

 head are five lines of black bristles; two on each side, one arising 

 from the upper S. E. and one from the upper M. E., these run 

 caudad and soon jlisappear ; another arising between the lower 

 M. E. and passing above between the upper M. E. and then runs 

 caudad to the dorsal groove, this is very distinct ; mandibles dark 

 yellow-brown ; mouth-parts and sternum yellowish, latter darker on 

 edges, both with long black hairs ; legs yellowish, with darker rings 

 on femora ; legs with long black hairs, sometimes becoming bristles ; 

 the arrangement of these is very peculiar. A linear space on under 

 side of coxfe is barren of hairs ; two linear spaces on upper side of 

 femora and patelhe are also bare ; between them the hairs are long 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and bristly ; on hinder side of femora another barren stripe ; near tij) 

 of femora are some short dark lines not of hairs, in one of them is a 

 very large and long spine ; the joints beyond show less trace of lines 

 and are densely covered Avith long black hairs which give the ap- 

 pearance of being very black in color ; abdomen whitish with 

 scattered dark spots, very indistinct on venter ; head long and nar- 

 row and very distinct from the cephalothorax. 

 One specimen, Summit Marsh, Aug. 



Coelotus gnavus, nov. sp. 



Total length 9 6-9mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3mm. breadth 2" mm. 



Length of abdomen, 4mm. breadth 2"2mm. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow with a black marginal seam ; 

 mandibles similar ; legs same but lighter ; sternum darker ; abdo- 

 men almost wholly covered with black, leaving only numerous small 

 white spots ; spinnerets yellow-brown ; epigynura reddish ; sur- 

 rounded by black ; lung plates Avhite: epigynum with a simple oval 

 opening behind. 



This may be what Eraerton has called the 9 of C. longltarHus. 



One specimen. 

 Tegenaria derhatni Scop. 



Frequent in houses. 

 Cicurina complicata Em. 



One specimen, female. 

 Cicurina arcuata Keys. 



Common under leaves in autumn and winter. 

 Cicurina pallida Keys. 



Not uncommon under leaves in winter. 



Six Mile Creek, Fall Creek. 



Cicurina creber, nov. sp. Plate I, figs. 76, 76a, and 76b. 



Total length 9 and $ ' 3-3mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 1.4mm. breadth l* mm. 



Length of abdomen, TOmm. breadth l'2mm. 



Size varies, some larger^ and some smaller. Cephalothorax pale 

 yellow-brown, scarcely darker on head ; eyes surrounded by a little 

 black ; mandibles a little darker yellow-brown ; legs and palpi 

 light yellow-brown, distaljoints brightest ; sternum yellowish ; mouth- 

 parts darker; venter whitish with faint traces of darker spots; spin- 

 nerets white, surrounded at base by blackish ; epigynum red and 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



very prominent ; abdomen grayisb-white witb a more or less dis- 

 tinct medium dark stripe on basal part of dorsum, not reaching to 

 the middle of abdomen ; behind this several pairs of dark spots 

 sometimes indistinct or wanting ; abdomen covered with white 

 hairs; legs with both white and black hairs and red-brown spines; 

 sternum with black hairs. 



Abundant under leaves in autumn and winter. 

 Cicurina placida, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 77. 



Total length V 5mm, 



Very similar 'to C. creber ; color and markings the same; some- 

 times the abdomen has a S[)ot each side of the basal stripe. Differs 

 from C. creber chiefly in size and in the shape of the epigynum, 

 which is not as prominent as in that species. Cephalothorax some- 

 times redder than in that species. 



Not uncommon under leaves with the other species. Coy Glen, 

 Buttermilk Creek, Fall Creek. 



Hahnia radula Em. 



One specimen. 

 Hahnia bmaculata Em. 



Frequent under leaves in winter. 



Fall Creek, Cascadilla Creek, Six INIile Creek. 



Hahnia cinerea Em. 



Uncommon, under leaves as the other species. 



Fall Creek, Buttermilk Creek. 

 Agalena naevia Bosc. 



Abundant and extremely variable. 



Amaurobinse. 



Dictyna volucripes Keys. 



Frequent in grass all summer ; often with young. 



Dictyna sublata Hentz. 

 D. muraria Em. 



Common in summer on grass. 

 Dictyna longispina Em. 



Not uncommon ; summer in grass. 

 Dictyna minuta Em. 



Not uncommon ; summer in fields. 




28 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Dictyna cruciata Em. T 



One specimen, probably this species. 



Dictyna foxii Marx.l Plate I, figs. 78 and 78a. 



Total length 9 2mm. 



Cephalothorax pale yellow-brown ; darkest in front ; mandibles 

 similar; eyes surrounded by black ; front M. E. very small; legs 

 yellowish, growing brighter from behind forward ; sternum a little 

 yellowish ; abdomen white, with a short median spot on front of dor- 

 sum black, and behind this several black bands, somewhat in the 

 form of chevrons, fainter spots on the sides ; spinnerets more or 

 less surrounded by black. 



Two specimens, Oct., Fall Creek. 

 Dictyna volupis Kej?. 



Abundant in grass in summer, under bark in winter. 

 Dictyna frondea Em. 



One specimen, South Hill. 



Dictyna maxima, nov. sp, Plate I, fig. 79. Plate IV, fig. 79a. 



Total length 9 4-3mm. 



Length of cephalothorax l'5mm. 



Abdomen swollen with eggs. 



Cephalothorax almost black, shining, only a little space behind 

 eyes lighter and yellowish ; mandibles black ; palpi and legs white; 

 sternum and lip dark red-brown, maxillpe lighter ; abdomen light- 

 grayish, with many small irregular, silvery spots on sides and dor- 

 sum ; these leave the appearance of net-work of gray ; in these spots 

 are many small gray dots ; along each upper side several rusty 

 brown spots, the basal ones largest, apical ones smallest, sometimes 

 these are partially connected ; venter with a median red-brown 

 stripe ; spinnerets reddish ; epigynum as in figure. 



One specimen. 



Dictyna decorata, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 81. Plate IV, fig. 81. 



Total length 9 2o-2-9mm. 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown ; head and clypeus yellowish-red ; 

 mandibles reddish to yellowish-brown ; sternum yellow ; maxillae 

 similar ; lip darker ; legs white to yellow'ish ; abdomen whitish ; 

 venter with a few reddish spots, sometimes in form of a central 

 stripe ; dorsum on each side with a red-brown or nearly black 



iThis is Prodalia foxii Marx. Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 1891. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Stripe, sometimes partially divided into spots ; these stripes con- 

 nected at apical end by a broad irregular band of same color ; some- 

 times a few small spots in the enclosed space. Prolongations of the 

 markings often extend down on the sides of the abdomen, especially 

 posteriorly ; spinnerets light ; the abdomen is somewhat longer and 

 narrower than usual ; abdomen above with many blackish hairs. 



Several S2:)ecimens. April under bark, and in summer. 

 Bictyua dubia, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. S2a. 



Total length 9 2"7mm. 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown, head and clypeus yellowish-red ; 

 mandibles yellow-brown ; legs and palpi whitish ; sternum and lip 

 yellow-brown ; maxill?e lighter ; venter yellowish ; dorsum grayish, 

 covered with yellow spots leaving a gray network, little dots of 

 gray in the yellow spots ; each side of dorsum an indistinct stripe of 

 rusty brown, most distinct near base; abdomen elliptical, well 

 rounded. 



One specimen. 



Amaurobius silvestris Em. 



Common under stones. 

 Titanoeca americana Em. 



Frequent under stones. Fall Creek, Enfield Creek. 

 Neophanes Marx. 



General structure of Dictyna ; eyes six in two groups, three 

 each side ; calamistrum and cribellum present in both sexes ; lip 

 triangular; small species. 



Neophanes pallidus Marx. Plate III, figs. 86, 86a and 87. 



Length 9 and $ I'lmm. 



Cephalothorax yellow-brown, with a few blackish marks; the 

 eyes on two black patches, one each side; mandibles more yellow 

 than cephalothorax ; legs yellowish, basal part of hind pair more 

 white; sternum white, a little tinge of yellow ; lip mure yellow; 

 abdomen nearly white, a little grayish. 



Structure very peculiar; eyes six in two groups; calamistrum 

 and cribellum distinct in both sexes ; lip long triangular, a tootii 

 each side of base; spinnerets six, separated ; tubules only on adja- 

 cent surfaces of under pair; palpi and epigynum as figured ; one 

 specimen a little smaller with a greenish abdomen does not seem 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



different. Found under stones or leaves in holes in the ground 

 often an inch from the surface. 



Not uncommon in Buttermilk Creek, Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek. 

 Two female specimens agree closely with these typical specimens, 

 except that the sternum is extremely narrow and the lip broad at 

 tip as seen in fig. 87. It may be a new species but the epigyjium is 

 the same. 



THERIDID^. 



Theridinse. 



Theridium tepidariorum Koch. 



Al)Liudant, in houses and about buildings ; occasionally found on 

 cliffs in gorges. 



Theridium rupicola Em. 



Not uncommon, under stones. Six Mile Creek, Dec. 

 Theridium kentuckyense Keys. 



One female ; similar to the male but a little larger ; epigyuum as 

 on Plate Y, fig. 43. 

 Theridium differens Eid. 



Not uncommon in evergreen trees. 

 Theridium spiralis Ilentz. 



More common than the preceding ; in evergreen trees and else- 

 where. 

 Theridium murarium Em. 



Xot uncommon, Six Mile Creek ; evergreen trees. 

 Theridium punctis-sparsum Kej's. 



Uncommon, Fall and Cascadilla Creeks, Dec, Feb. 

 Theridium frondeum Hentz. 



Very common in summer. 

 Mimetus interfector Hentz. 



Infrequent, Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek, Freeville, Aug. Sept. 

 Mimetus epeiroides Em. 



One young specimen probably this species. Buttermilk Creek, 

 Aug. 

 Ero thoracica Reuss. 



One specimen. Inlet Marsh, March. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Steatoda borealis Hentz. 



Common often about buildings. 

 Steatoda marmorata Hentz. 



Xot uncommon in gorges. 

 Steatoda guttata Reuss. 



Uncommon, Primrose Cliff, Inlet Marsh ; Nov., Dec. 

 Steatoda triangulosa Walck. 



Two specimens. 



Dipoena nigra Em. 

 /Steatoda nigra Em. 



Not uncommon, Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek. 



Argyrodes trigonum Hentz. 



Not uncommon in Linyphia webs in gorges. 

 Euryopsis funebris Hentz. 



One specimen on campus. 

 Fholcomma hirsuta Em. 



Not uncommon, Buttermilk and Fall Creeks; during autumn 

 and winter. 



Erigoninae. 



Ceratinella fissiceps Cambr. 



Not uncommon in grass in spring and summer. 

 Ceratinella similis, nov. sp. Plate V, figs. 61, 61a and 61b. 



Total length 9 and S l-4mm. 



Male sometimes a little smaller than female. Cephalothorax 

 orange; eye region black ; legs light yellow-brown ; mandibles and 

 sternum orange : abdomen whitish, with a slight grayish-yellow 

 tinge ; epigynum and spinnerets dark or black ; $ palpi with tarsus 

 black ; hard spot on male dorsum, orange ; muscular impressions of 

 female orange and hard, no hard spot on dorsum ; hard spot at 

 base of venter, and a little spot in front of spinnerets ; head of male 

 elevated and projecting cephala but not humped ; head of female 

 normal. 



Frequent, Six Mile Creek, South Hill, Sept., Nov., Apr. 



CeratineUa minuta Em. Plate II, tig. 60. Plate IV, tig. 60. 

 Not uncommon. Fall Creek, Aug. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Ceratinella bulbosa Em. Plate V, fig. 59, 59a. 



The female is about the same size as the male, it has uo hard 

 spot ou dorsum ; the abdomen in most of my specimens is dark 

 gray, much darker than in C. fissiceps. 



Kot uncommon. Round Marshes, Fall Creek near Varna ; upper 

 part of Six Mile Creek ; Oct. March, Apr. 

 Ceratinella pygmea Em. Tlate II, fig. 57. 



The female is about the same size and color as the male with a 

 hard spot on dorsum. 



One male and one female. Fall Creek and Buttermilk Creek, 

 Oct., Nov. 

 Ceratinella atriceps Cambr. 



Rare, Fall Creek, Inlet Marsh. Feb., March. 



Ceratinella moesta, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 58. Plate V, fig. 58. 



Total length $ 1-5 mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 'Tmm. breadth -SSmm. 



Length of abdomen -Smm. breadth "6 mm. 



Cephalothorax very dark and brown ; legs orange, a little 

 brownish towards the tips, sternum red-brown ; hard spot on dorsum 

 dark orange ; rest of dorsum dark gray ; venter still darker ; head 

 very high ; hard spot on dorsum, not very large, elliptical, distinct; 

 spinnerets dark. 



One specimen. South Hill beyond Buttermilk Creek, Nov. 



Ceratinella laetabilis Cambr. 



Rare, Cascadilla Creek, Fall Creek near Varna, Febr. March. 

 Ceratinella brunnea Em. 



Uncommon, Cascadilla Creek, Fall Creek, Aug., Feb., March. 

 Ceratinella micropalpis Em. 



Rare, Six Mile Creek, Nov. 

 Ceratinella placida, nov. sp. Plate II, figs. 54, 54a. 



Total length S l-25mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 'SSmm. breadth •45mm. 



Length of abdomen '8 mm. breadth '7 mm. 



Cephalothorax light greenish-brown ; legs nearly white ; palpi 

 greenish; sternum greenish-gray ; spinnerets and a spot in front of 

 them white ; hard spots on dorsum indistinct, a little tinge of 

 orange ; the basal one yellowish ; abdomen dark gray with a greenish 

 tinge ; head of male slightly elevated, not humped, but somewhat pro- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



jecting anteriorly ; dorsal hard spot large, covering nearly all the 

 dorsum. A female from Cascadilla Creek has a darker abdomen, 

 and the hard spot is brighter than in male; sternum is darker on 

 sides; cephalothorax is more yellow as is also the legs; the hard 

 spot has no distinct limits. 



Uncommon, Cascadilla Creek, Burdick's Glen ; Sept., Feb. 



Ceratinella formosa, nov. sp. Plate II, figs. 55 and 55a. 



Total length 9 I'Smm. 



Cephalothorax dark yellow-brown ; darkest at cephalic end ; legs 

 pale brownish-yellow; sternum dark; abdomen nearly black, 

 ■except the upper part of the base, which is covered by a hard spot 

 extending only a little way on the dorsum ; this is a bright orange- 

 red color ; head not elevated ; on apex of dorsum a few faint narrow 

 chevrons of white ; the four muscular impressions are about over 

 the middle of the abdomen, the hind pair not much farther apart 

 than are the front pair ; these are also reddish in color; abdomen 

 widest somewhat behind the middle. 



Rare, Fall Creek, Sept. 

 Ceratinella annulipes, nov. sji. Plate II, figs. 56, 56a and 56b. 



Length 9 IvSmm. 



Cephalothorax dark chestnut brown ; sternum dark red-brown; 



abdomen dark gray, nearly black above; legs red-brown, most of 



patella and ends of other joints yellowish ; no hard spot, ends of 



■ muscles form reddish impressions on dorsum ; head not elevated ; 



epigynum as figured. 



One specimen. 

 Ceratinopsis interpres Cambr. 



Two specimens. Six Mile Creek and Round Marshes, Oct., Apr. 

 They are redder than in the description of Emerton. 

 Ceratinopsis nigriceps Era. 



Frequent, Six Mile Creek, Buttermilk Creek, Cascadilla Creek, 

 Inlet Marsh, Sept., Jan. 

 Ceratinopsis nigripalpis Em. 



One young specimen. Buttermilk Creek, Sept. 

 Ceratinopsis frontatus. nov. sp. Plate V, fig 6?>. 



Length 9 l-5mm. 



Cephalothorax dull yellowish-brown ; blacker on head, which is 

 somewhat raised ; legs a dull orange or brownish-yellow; sternum 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



blackish ; venter whitish ; dorsum a little darkened by small black 

 patches ; S. E. on tubercles ; epigynum red-brown. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, March. 

 Grammonota pictilis Cambr. 



Several specimens. Fall Creek, Sept., March. 

 Grammonota ornata Cambr. 



Two specimens, Fall Creek, near Varna, March. 

 Grammonota venusta. nov. sp. Plate Y, fig 64. 



Length 9 2 mm. 



Cephalothorax dark yellow-brown, marginal seam black, eyes on 

 black; indistinct dark lines on cephalothorax; mandibles red- 

 brown ; sternum nearly black ; legs bright brownish-yellow ; abdo- 

 men nearly black, with a pattern of light markings similar to the 

 other species but smaller; epigynum black ; head a little raised: 

 lung-plates yellowish ; cephalothorax nearly smooth, abdomen very 

 hairy; head about one-half the length of cephalothorax, which is 

 broad in front and not much wider in middle. 



Two specimens, Coy Glen, Feb. 



Spiropalpus spiralis Em. 



One specimen, Freville, Aug. 

 Cornicularia directa Cambr. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, Oct. 

 Cornicularia communis Em. 



One specimen. South Hill, Apr. 

 Cornicularia indirecta Cambr. 



One specimen. Six Mile Creek, Apr. 

 Cornicularia pallida Em. 



One specimen probably this species. Round Marshes, Oct. 

 Cornicularia formosa. nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 35. 



Length 9 2mm. 



Cephalothorax bright yellow ; eyes on a black patch ; no dark 

 seam ; mandibles dusky at tip, rest yellowish ; sternum lemon- 

 yellow ; legs very pale whitish ; abdomen gray, with a tinge of pink, 

 many small indistinct darker patches ; epigynum dark ; legs long 

 and head low. 



Two specimens. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Cornicularia placida, nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 36. 



Length $ 1-9 mm. 



Somewhat similar in general appearance to what I have called 

 C. directa; but the epigynum is quite different, cephalothorax pale 

 chestnut brown, darker on the head ; abdomen nearly white ; epigy- 

 num reddish ; legs and sternum brownish-yellow. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, Oct. 



Lophomma cristata BIk. 



One specimen, South Hill, Apr. Probably this species. 



Lophocarenum castaneum Em. Plate lY, fig. 3. 



Several females which I take to be this species. The cephalo- 

 thorax is somewhat more yellowish than in the description ; the 

 abdomen is large and well rounded. 



Fall Creek, March. 



Lophocarenum tristis, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 1. 



Length 9 2-3mm. 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown ; legs brownish-yellow ; mandibles 

 dull reddish-brown, sternum and abdomen very dark gray ; head a 

 little elevated ; abdomen large oval ; the middle of hind margin of 

 epigynum is a little raised ; sternum quite convex; legs not long. 



Three specimens. Inlet Marsh, Apr. ; Fall Creek, Oct. 



Lophocarenum florens Cambr. 



Not uncommon, Round Marshes, Oct. ; Burdick's Glen, Sept. 



Lophocarenum unimaculatum, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 2, 2a. 



Total length 9 2-4mm. 



Length of cephalothorax r2mm. breadth l* mm. 



Length of abdomen TGram. breadth r2mm. 



Cephalothorax orange above and below ; eyes surrounded by 

 black rings; clypeus and mandibles orange; palpi yellow; coxse 

 yellowish ; base of femora reddish often extending beyond the 

 middle; patella tibia and metatarsus dark, nearly black; tarsus 

 lighter ; abdomen orange yellow above and below, with a large 

 bluish-black spot in centre of dorsum, spot rounded behind and 

 pointed in front. 



A pretty species found in Inlet ^larsh among leaves, Oct.; and 

 later in Nov. under bark. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Lophocarenum miniatum, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 4. 



Length 9 3mm. 



Cephalothorax bright orange red, darker near eyes ; mandibles, 

 palpi, sternum, coxse and femora of legs orange-red, other joints of 

 legs lighter ; abdomen dark gray ; in one specimen an oblique light 

 stripe each side ; spinnerets yellowish ; epigynum reddish ; structure 

 as usual in the genus. 



Two specimens, Freeville, May. 



Lophocarenum venustum, nov. sp. Place IV, fig. 5. 



Length 9 2'7mm. 



Cephalothorax orange brightest on cephalic part; eyes on black ; 

 legs lighter and more yellow ; mandibles brownish at tips ; sternum 

 orange, abdomen gray; muscular impressions on dorsum brownish, 

 the basal pair larger and just about twice as close together as are 

 the other pair ; as seen from the side, on the caudal edge of the 

 mandible, about one-third the distance from the base, is a rounded 

 tubercle. 



Two specimens. South Hill beyond Buttermilk ; Freeville, Nov., 

 Aug. 

 Lophocarenum montiferum Em. 



Several specimens, Six Mile Creek, Apr. 

 Lophocarenum parvum, nov. sp. Plate IV, figs. 6, 6a and 6b. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish ; a line of black around the head ; 

 marginal seam blackish ; eyes surrounded by black ; size l*5mm. ; 

 legs whitish or nearly colorless ; mandibles a greenish-white ; ster- 

 num a yellowish-broAvn, darker on edges ; abdomen dark gray with 

 a little tinge of green ; palpal organ reddish ; palpi long, especially 

 the femur, tibia swollen at tip and with teeth ; head elevated ; 

 groove just behind the S. E., hole in this groove ; legs moderately 

 long ; cephalothorax widest nearly at hind margin, which is con- 

 cave. 



One specimen. Six Mile Creek, Sept. 

 Lophocarenum exiguum, nov. sp. Plate V, figs. 7, 7a, 7b. 



Length S 1-5 mm. 



Cephalothorax dark yellow-brown, darkest at cephalic end ; 

 marginal seam black ; legs bright yellow-brown, distal joints paler ; 

 maiulibles pale ; sternum yellow-brown ; darker than legs ; abdomen 

 nearly black, with rows of large hairs; head greatly elevated; 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



upper M. E. can not be seen in a front view. The stenuini is very 

 broad, and the anterior margin is straight. The groove and hole 

 on head is just above the S. E. 

 One specimen, Fall Creek, Jan. 



Lophocarenum spiniferum Cambr. 



One specimen, South Hill, Oct. 

 Lophocarenum crenatum Em. 



Several specimens, Six Mile Creek. 

 Lophocarenum crenatoideum, nov. sj). Plate IV, figs. S, Sa ami 8b. 



Length $ l-5mm. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow ; eyes surrounded by black ; a 

 blackish line around head ; legs white or nearly colorless ; sternum 

 yelloAvish-brown, quite dark ; mouth-parts and mandibles pale 

 yellowish ; abdomen shining, dark gray, a little greenish, with long 

 white hairs ; palpal organ scarcely colored ; cephalothorax with 

 sides crenate ; head narrowed at upper ]M. E., then widened ; a few 

 cross ridges on middle of cephalothorax ; cephalothorax broadest at 

 about middle; an elongate groove just behind S. E., hole at 

 cephalic end of groove. 



One specimen, Six Mile Creek, Sept. 



Lophocarenum erigonoides Em. Plate IV, fig. 9. 



Several specimens, Six Mile Creek, Sept. ; Fall Creek, Feb. 

 Lophocarenum formosum, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 10. Plate V, fig. 10. 



Length S l-2mm. length 9 r4mm. 



Cephalothorax bright brownish-yellow; head darker ; marginal 

 seam black ; legs paler than cephalothorax ; sternum red-brown, 

 edges nearly black ; abdomen nearly black, lighter on venter of 

 female ; a line of pale spots on each side of venter ; abdomen long- 

 haired ; tibia of male palpus with tAVO black teeth ; head of female 

 scarcely elevate J, male considerably raised; hole just behind the 

 S. E. ; farther caudad near the end of head is a groove. 



Several specimens, South Hill, Six Mile Creek, May, Oct. 



Lophocarenum arvensis, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 11. 



Length 9 -nim. 



Cephalothorax and mandibles dark red-brown ; darkest on head, 

 which is but little elevated, not humi)ed ; palpi red-brown ; legs 

 bright brownish-yellow; sternum red-brown; abdomen nearly 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



black ; cephalothorax widest in middle, tapering a little and 

 rounded behind; head broad. 



Two specimens, Fall Creek in field, Feb., May. 

 Lophocarenum longior, nov. sp. Plate IV, figs. 12 and 12a. 



Length 9 2nira. 



Cephalothorax dull brownish-yellow ; darkest on head; eyes on 

 black rings ; black seam scarcely apparent ; legs and palpi pale, 

 scarcely colored ; mandibles brownish-yellow brighter than cephalo- 

 thorax ; sternum brownish-yellow, blackish on edges ; epigynum 

 reddish; venter light gray; dorsum darker gray, but still quite 

 light, lightest at base ; the abdomen is longer than usual in the 

 genus; mandibles somewhat convex in front. 



One specimen, Burdick's Glen, Sept. 



Tmeticus unicorn, nov. sp. Plate IV, figs, 13, 13a. 



Total length $ l-2mm. 



Length of cephalothorax •oomm. breadth -Smm, 



Length of abdomen •75mm. breadth 'Smm, 



Cephalothorax and legs yellowish; abdomen gray; paljii yellow, 

 organ reddish and black, sternum and venter dark gray ; horn 

 yellow ; legs with many black hairs ; spinnerets white ; head 

 elevated, no holes; from middle of clypeus projects a slender horn, 

 somewhat larger at tip than in middle; tip with some stiff hairs; 

 the tibia of male palpus with a long projection . 



One specimen. Six Mile Creek, Nov. 

 Tmeticus trilobatus Em. 



One specimen. Fall Creek, Oct. The palpus is almost the same 

 as the figure in Emerton, but the tibia seems to have more projec- 

 tions at the tip. 

 Tmeticus obscurus, nov. sp. Plate II, figs. 14, 11a. 



Length $ rTram. 



Cephalothorax and madibles dull brownish-yellow ; eyes on 

 black ; legs paler ; sternum and abdomen dark, latter a little 

 greenish and lighter above than on venter ; head higher than in 

 most species of the genus, as is also the abdomen ; cephalothorax 

 broad, widest behind the middle, not much narrowed behind ; 

 mandibles with a tooth in front; tarsi of palpi goce, tibia enlarged 

 and with .several projections. 



One specimen, Six Mile Creek, 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Tmeticus flaveolus, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 15. 



Length $ 12miu. 



Cephalotborax bright brownish-jellow, with a bhick seam ; eyes 

 with black rings ; legs yellowish, paler than cephalotborax, first 

 pair darkest, fourth pair lightest ; sternum blackish-yellow ; abdo- 

 men pale greenish-gray ; cephalotborax low ; widest behind the 

 middle ; palpal organ reddish ; tibia enlarged and with several 

 short projections, not so much as in T. mcesUis ; palpal organ 

 smaller than in that species; a large tooth in front on mandibles; a 

 female, perhaps of this species a little smaller. 



One male and one female. South Hill, Oct. ; Fall Creek, Feb. 



Tmeticus luxuosus, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 16. 



Length $ 2-2mm. 



Cephalotborax a uniform orange ; no dark edge ; mandibles 

 similar but blackish at tips ; black around eyes ; legs pale yellowish ; 

 sternum light orange ; abdomen light gray ; no tooth on front of 

 mandibles ; cephalotborax broad in front, widest at dorsal groove; 

 abdomen narrow ; palpal organ small ; tibia swollen at tip, with 

 several projections. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, Aug. 



Tmeticus rusticus, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 17. 



Length $ I'Sram. 



Cephalotborax brownish-yellow ; legs somewhat orange, except 

 patella which is yellow ; sternum blackish-yellow brown ; no teeth 

 on front of mandibles; abdomen black; head a little higher than 

 usual ; palpal organ large, dark red-brown, very complicated. 



One specimen, Buttermilk Creek, March. 



Tmeticus pallidus Em. 



Two specimens, Six Mile Creek, Dec. 



Tmeticus humilis, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. IS. 



Length S l-6mm. 



Cephalotborax yellow-brown, with a black margin; eyes on 

 black ; mandibles yellow-brown, no tooth in front ; abdomen nearly 

 black ; legs yellow brown but paler than cephalotborax, the first 

 pair darkest ; sternum black ; spinnerets yellowish ; cephalotborax 

 widest at dorsal groove, narroAver behind. 



One specimen, Inlet Marsh, Nov. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Tmeticus moestus, nov. sji. Plate IV, fig. 19. 



Length $ l-oram. 



Cephalothorax, legs and mandibles bro-\vnish-yellow; eyes on 

 black ; cephalothorax with a few dark marks, one large one just 

 behind head ; and a line each side reaching to the hind S. E.; 

 sternum dark gray, abdomen a little lighter than sternum; ceph- 

 alothorax widest behind the middle ; mandibles large, with a tooth 

 in front ; legs quite long ; palpi a little longer than usual. 



Two specimens, Primrose Cliff, Dec. 

 Tmeticus debilis, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 20. 



Length $ and 9 l-9mm. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow ; eyes on black ; seam black ; 

 legs lighter than cephalothorax ; sternum dark brown ; venter 

 nearly black ; dorsum of abdomen lighter, very hairy ; cephalo- 

 thorax widest much behind the middle ; tibia of palpus not much 

 enlarged. 



Several specimens. Inlet Marsh, Primrose Cliff, Buttermilk Creek, 

 Dec, March. 



Tmeticus palustris, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 21. 



Length $ I'Qmm. Length 9 l-9mm. 



Cephalothorax yellow ; legs similar but lighter ; eyes on black ; 

 abdomen dark gray; sternum yellow-brown, darkest on edges; 

 epigynum reddish-black ; palpal organ reddish ; abdomen of male 

 no wider than cephalothorax, in female the abdomen is wider ; 

 head of male a little raised ; a tooth on front of male mandibles, 

 legs moderately long. 



Two specimens from Round Marshes in May, with a web in the 

 throat of the leaves of the Pitcher plant ; one specimen, which 

 appears to be the same, from Fall Creek, Oct. 



Tmeticus distinctus, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 22. 



Length 9 l'3mm. 



Cephalothorax dull yellowish-brown, with faint blackish mark- 

 ings ; no black seam ; eyes with black rings ; sternum dull yellowish 

 brown, blacker on edges, abdomen dark to light gray ; legs dull 

 yellowish-brown, a little duller than cephalothorax ; epigynum 

 reddish ; head low ; cephalothorax not tapering much at either end ; 

 legs short. 



One specimen, in woods west of Yarna, March. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Tmeticus maculatus, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 2.3. 



Length 9 I'Smui. 



Cephalothorax and legs brownish-yellow, quite bright ; eyes on 

 black rings ; mandibles and palpi a little brighter than cej^halo- 

 thorax, a narroAV black seam ; sternum blackish ; epigynum reddish ; 

 abdomen gray, darker on venter ; dorsum with several pairs of 

 transverse indistinct white spots, most clearly seen when wet ; epigy- 

 num of two flat lobes ; no traces of teeth on front of mandibles. 



Two specimens, Coy Glen, Feb. 



Tmeticus minutus, nov. sp. Plate II, fig, 24. 



Length $ 1mm. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, head darkest ; eyes with black 

 rings ; margin scarcely darkened ; mandibles brighter than ceph- 

 alothorax ; legs pale, with a little brownish and a little tinge of 

 red, sternum yellowish ; abdomen greenish-gray with a few paler 

 spots above ; palpal organ dark red-brown ; spinnerets white ; no 

 tooth on front of mandibles ; tibia of palpus not enlarged ; the 

 front M. E. are much smaller than the others. 



One specimen, in woods west of Varna, March. 

 Tmeticus gnavus, nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 44. 



Length S l'3mm. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow, a little darker on edge, with a 

 black margin ; eyes on black ; mandibles yellowish with a large 

 tooth in front; palpi and legs brighter yellow; sternum dark, 

 nearly black ; abdomen dark gray almost black ; spinnerets light; 

 cephalothorax very low, wide and short; abdomen narrow; tibia of 

 palpus with several projections. 



One specimen, Six Mile Creek, Apr. 



Erigone longipalpis Em. 



One specimen, Inlet Marsh, April. 



Linyphinse. 



Linyphia marginata Koch. 



Common. 

 Linyphia communis Ilentz. 



Not uncommon, Freeville, May. 

 Linyphia clathrata SunJ. 



One specimen, Inlet Marsh, Nov. 



4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Linyphia phrygiana Koch. 



Common. 

 L. phrygiana var. annulipes. 



A little smaller with distinct riuojs on tibia, wliile beyond thei'e 

 is scarcely any red marks. There are one or two extra dark marks 

 on the side of the abdomen near the base ; the median stripe on the 

 cephalothorax is divided into four parts on the head, one running 

 to each eye. 



A few specimens. Fall Creek. 



Linyphia mandibulata Em. 



Not uncommon in gorges and elsewhere. 



Linyphia variabilis, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 28. 



Total length largest 9 4* mm. 



Length of cephalothorax ]*9mm. breadth '9 mm. 



Length of abdomen 2"2mm. breadth TSSmm. 



Cephalothorax reddish-yellow to red, with a black line on 

 margin, mandibles same as cephalothorax ; mouth-parts and 

 sternum dark reddish, sternum often jet black ; legs light russet 

 yellow to greenish-yellow ; venter dark red-brown ; a silvery white 

 band around the sides just above the edge of the dark venter; 

 above this a dark red-brown stripe, about same width or wider, this 

 occasionally sub-interrupted at middle. On dorsum within this last 

 stripe, the ground color is chocolate or lighter, with small silvery 

 spots, and when fully developed the ordinary folium like L. mar- 

 ginata, but usually more or less broken ; spinnerets black. Cephalo- 

 thorax narrowed just in front of first pair of legs; gradually 

 elevated toward the eyes ; deeply emarginate behind ; area occupied 

 by M. E. higher than broad, and broader behind than in front ; 

 S. E. touching each other ; legs haiiy, with few spines ; specimens 

 not quite adult of both sexes. 



Not uncommon. Round Marshes, Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek, 

 Oct., Feb. 



Linyphia conferta Hentz. Plate II, fig. 38. 



Total length $ and $ young 3'3mm. 



Length of cephalothorax I'lmm. breadth "Omm. 



Length of abdomen 2* mm. breadth l"lmm. 



Cephalothorax yellow-brown ; eyes on black ; a black seam ; 

 mandibles yellows-brown ; legs pale greenish, sometimes a little 

 darker at ends of joints; sternum black; venter dark red-brown 




1892.] KATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



extending half way up the side; just above this a line of silvery 

 spots, smaller in size than in i. variabilis; above this a row of 

 blackish spots ; dorsum reddish or yellowish, with very few small 

 silvery spots; on middle of dorsum a pair of red-brown spots; be- 

 hind them another pair, sometimes united to a larger darker spot 

 at end of dorsum ; base of dorsum with no dark spots; the end of 

 abdomen is more like a Jrontina than is that of L. variabilis ; the 

 tarsus of the male palpus as far as developed, is much more 

 triangular than that of L. variabilis. 



Infrequent, South Hill, Apr. ; Six Mile Creek, Oct. ; Fall Creek, 

 March. 



Stemonyphantes bucculentus Clerck. 



Infrequent, Buttermilk Creek, Six Mile Creek, Fall Creek, 

 South Hill. During autumn and winter. 

 Diplostyla nigrina West. 



Infrequent, Enfield Creek, Sept., Six Mile Creek, Nov. and Apr. 

 Diplostyla pallida, nov. sp. Plate II, tig. 29. 



Length S 2mm. length ? l-9mm. 



Cephalothorax pale greenish ; legs similar or paler ; sternum more 

 brownish ; mandibles more yellow^ ; eyes, with a little black, abdo- 

 men grayish above, with several darker, but not black, cross bands ; 

 sides and venter similar to these cross bands; epigynum nearly 

 white, with a reddish spot each side ; palpal organ reddish-brown ; 

 legs very long, head of $ more elevated than in 9 , and with a few 

 stiff hairs; S mandibles larger than $. 



Three specimens, Williams Brook, Summit Marsh, Aug. 

 Diplostyla alboventris, nov. sp. Plate V, tig. 31. 



Total length 9 2-2mm. 



Length of cephalothorax -Smm. breadth -Gmm. 



Length of abdomen l-6mm. breadth -Omm. 



Size varies somewhat more than usual. 



Cephalothorax yellow-brown, darkest at cephalic end and around 

 edges ; eye-region blackish ; mandibles, palpi, mouth-parts and 

 sternum similar to cephalothorax ; legs lighter with a tinge of 

 green ; abdomen white, cream or grayish, with a broad black stripe 

 on each side reaching to the spinnerets; above sometimes with a 

 basal median black spot ; behind this four cross-bands, black ; the 

 first two sometimes divided in the middle; the fourth often reaches 

 to the stripe on side, the others do not ; sometimes a trace of a fifth 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



cross-band ; epigynura is part reddish ; legs with a few spines. The 

 male is sometimes a little larger than female; colors similar, except 

 that there is a dark spot at ba.se of venter, w^hich extends caiidad in 

 some specimens and may darken the whole venter; palpal organ 

 dark reddish ; it is a beautiful .structure. 



Locally common, exceedingly so on Beebe Island, Fall Creek; 

 also found in Inlet Marsh ; autumn and winter. 

 Diplostyla concolor Reuss. 



Not uncommon in Inlet Marsh, Sept., Nov. 

 Drapetisca socialis Sund. 



Tw'o specimens, male and female. 

 Helophora insignis Blk. 



Infrequent. Dryden Lansing Swamp, Sept. ; Six Mile Creek, 

 Sept. ; Fall Creek, Aug. ; Round Marshes, Oct. Varies in size and 

 markings. 

 Bathyphantes minuta Blk. 



Inlet Marsh. One specimen, Nov. 

 Bathyphantes nebulosa Sund. 



In houses. Forest Home and Heustis St., March and Nov. 

 Bathyphantes zebra Em. 



Common in autumn and winter under leaves. 

 Bathyphantes alpina Em. 



Frequent, Inlet Marsh, Buttermilk Creek. 

 Bathyphantes subalpina Em. 



Frequent, Cascadilla Creek, Buttermilk Creek. 

 Batbypbantes decorata, nov, sp. Plate II, fig, 41. 



Length 9 and S l-9mm. 



Cephalothorax yellow with black around eyes; a black margin ; 

 sometimes a dorsal median stripe black ; legs with basal joints 

 yellowish, distal joints paler ; sternum dark brown to blackish ; 

 venter and sides of abdomen in $ dark, in 9 lighter gray ; sides 

 Avith two silvery spots ; dorsum pale with no dark markings or 

 indistinct ; a middle interrupted dark chevron and two or three, 

 usually more complete, behind this ; apex dark, a number of silvery 

 spots in dorsum ; epigynum reddish, as is also palpal organ ; eyes 

 prominent and projecting, head slightly more raised and projecting 

 in male than female; legs long; abdomen slender. 



Infrequent, Burdick's Glen, Sept. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEPHIA. 45 



Bathyphantes argenteomaculata, nov. sp. 



Largest female, young, 2omm. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, as are also the legs ; eyes sur- 

 rounded by black ; margin of cephalothorax dark ; sternum dark ; 

 abdomen light gray above with many small indistinct brownish 

 spots and larger silvery spots which form two oblique stripes 

 each side that approach each other, and several cross-bands on dor- 

 sum ; legs very long; abdomen as usual. 



Several specimens of this pretty species were found in Six Mile 

 Creek in Sept., all young. 

 Bathyphantes pallida, nov. s;.. Plate V, fig. 42. 



Length 9 L25mm. 



Cephalothorax light yellow-brown ; legs same color, somewhat 

 brighter ; palpi a little more gray ; sternum gray or dark gray ; 

 abdomen gray or nearly white on dorsum shading into dark gray 

 on venter; epigynum red at tip, and considerably projecting as 

 seen in the figure ; spinnerets light. 



Four specimens. Six ^Nlile Creek, Dec, Apr. ; Fall Creek, Oct. 



Bathyphantes sabulosa Keys 

 Linyphia sabidosa Keys. - 



L^ncommon, Six Mile Creek, Oct. 



Bathyphantes zygia Keys. 

 Erigone zygia Keys. 



Not uncommon during autumn and winter under stones and leaves. 



Bathyphantes formica Em. 



Two specimens, Freeville, Aug. 



Bathyphantes umhratilis Keys. 

 Erigone umhratilis Keys. 



In field, May. A few specimens. 

 Bathyphantes complicata Em. Plate IV, fig. 26. 



Uncommon, South Hill, Oct.; Fall Creek, March, Oct. The 

 palpal organ agrees pretty closely with Emerton's figure ; the color 

 of the cepalothorax and legs is, however, yellowish, not orange. 



Bathyphantes unimaculata, nov. sp. Plate II, figs. 6.3 and 6oa. 



Length $ and 9 LOmm. 



Cephalothorax greenish-gray with small blackish irregular 

 patches ; eyes on black ; leg.s brownish-yellow ; sternum black ; 

 abdomen dark gray ; darkest on venter, almost black ; a pale spot 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



near apex on dorsum, this is plain in both sexes ; the male palpi are 

 not long, the organ compact, the tarsal hook is very large and pro- 

 jects out to one side ; epigynum reddish. 



Xot uncommon, Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek, Feb. 



Bathyphantes inornata, nov. sp. Plate V. fig. 66. 



Length S and 9 l-8mm. 



]Male a little smaller and narrower. 



Cephalothorax and legs yellow-brown, eyes on black ; abdomen 

 blackish or grayish, often Avith a greenish tinge, and with many 

 little whitish dots ; sternum dark brown or nearly black ; epigynum 

 and palpal organ reddish ; head of male not raised ; abdomen with- 

 out markings, or at most with a few narrow light cross-lines on dor- 

 sum near apex. 



Common under stones in fields, autumn and winter. 

 Bathyphantes tristis, nov. sp. Plate IT, fig. 45. 



Length 9 l-5mm. 



Cephalothorax and legs dull brownish-yellow, blackish near 

 margin of cephalothorax ; eyes with black rings ; mandibles 

 brighter yellow ; sternum blackish ; abdomen dark brown or nearly 

 black ; epigynum dark red-brown, showing as a roundish projec- 

 tion ; legs not very long. 



Uncommon ; Fall Creek, March ; Six Mile Creek, March ; Inlet 

 Marsh, Nov. 



Microneta viaria Blk. 



Several specimens. Fall Creek, Oct., Xov. 



Microneta latens, nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 46. 



Length 9 2"lmm. 



Young males about the same size. 



Cephalothorax brownish-yellow, with a black margin, and dark 

 rays each side ; eyes on black rings ; legs and palpi yellowish, some- 

 times with a little tinge of green; mandibles and mouth-parts 

 yellow-brown ; sternum dark gray ; abdomen very dark almost 

 black, sometimes with a tinge of green; epigynum reddish; spin- 

 nerets light; abdomen widest a little behind the middle; cephalo- 

 thorax low, broadest behind the middle ; legs long and slender ; 

 epigynum quite similar to M. quinquedentata. 



Common on wet ground, during autumn and winter. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Microneta quinquedentata Em. 



Common in autunm. 

 Microneta palustris, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 47. 



Length $ 2-yiijni. 



Cephalothorax dark orange brown, shining ; legs brighter, first 

 pair darkest, tips of legs darker than base ; mandibles as cephalo- 

 thorax ; sternum red-brown; abdomen black, hairy; legs with long 

 black hairs; tibia of male palpus small, without teeth, femur long ; 

 S. E. touching ; upper M. E. larger than lower and a little farther 

 apart. 



Two specimens, Negundo woods, Feb. 



Microneta discolor Em. 



Several specimens, Fall Creek, Feb. 

 Microneta cornupalpis Em. 



Not uncommon, Fall and Six Mile Creeks, Nov., March, April. 

 Some females are twice as large as others. 



Microneta luteola, nov, sp. Plate II, fig. 48. 



Length $ 2-3mm. 



Cephalothorax bright brownish-yellow ; margin scarcely darker ; 

 eyes with black rings; mandibles yellowish; legs lighter than 

 cephalothorax ; sternum yellow with dark edges ; venter blackish 

 gray, with a pale line each side ; dorsum gray, with a Avhitish band 

 near apex, and in front of this a number of small indistinct light 

 spots ; palpal organ dark reddish ; legs very long ; cephalothorax 

 very broad and low ; head broad. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, Nov. 

 Microneta flaveola, nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 49. 



Length S l*2mm. 



Cephalothorax, mandibles, and legs, pale brownish-yellow ; eyes 

 with black rings ; sternum blackish ; abdomen greenish-gray, lighter 

 above, somewhat blackish on venter ; palpal organ reddish ; palpi 

 short; legs long ; tibia of male palpus small; abdomen small and 

 low. 



One specimen, Six Mile Creek. 



Microneta complicata, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 50. 



Length S ' 2-7mm. 



Cephalothorax orange yellow ; eyes with black rings; mandibles 

 slender and narrow, yellowish ; legs yellowish, a little lighter than 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



cepbalotliorax ; sternum blackish-yellow ; abdomen nearly black ; 

 spinnerets white ; cephalothorax low and broad ; male palpi dark 

 reddish, very large; tarsus with a short but prominent spur and 

 below it a curved hook ; palpal organ extremely complicated. 



One specimen, Michigan Hollow Swamp, Apr. 

 Microneta minutissima, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 27. 



Length Z -OSmm. 



Cephalothorax, mandibles and dorsum of abdomen pale 

 greenish ; legs and palpi still paler, almost colorless ; ])alpal organ 

 not much darker ; eyes surrounded by black rings, which almost 

 touch each other in the upper row, and do unite in the lower row ; 

 abdomen with scattered long black hairs ; venter and sternum pale 

 greenish, with a few blackish spots and lines, which make these 

 parts appear darker ; legs very long and slender ; cephalothorax 

 low, broadest behind the middle, quite broad in front ; abdomen 

 low and narrow. 



One specimen, Fall Creek, Oct. 



Microneta frontata, nov. sp. Plate '\', fig. 51. 



Length 9 2-4mm. 



Cephalothorax reddish-yellow ; legs duller and paler ; eyes with 

 black rings ; sternum yellow, edges more reddish ; epigynum red- 

 dish, surrounded by yellow ; spinnerets yellow ; abdomen gray ; legs 

 not very long and stout ; head broad, abdomen low, and not much 

 longer than cephalothorax, epigjmum large and quite peculiar in 

 shape. 



One specimen. 



Microneta gigantea, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 52. 



Length 9 3mm. 



Cephalothorax pale yellowish, blackish on edges, a black central 

 line on head, and one each side of head ; eyes, except front M. E., 

 surrounded by reddish rings; front M. E. much smaller than 

 other eyes, and on black ; mandibles brighter yellow than cephalo- 

 thorax ; legs pale yellowish, sternum similar; abdomen gray, 

 darker above than on venter ; epigynum ])rojecting. 



One sjiecimen. Fall Creek, Aug. 



Microneta distincta, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 53. 



Length $ 2-9mm. 



Cephalothorax and sternum light orange-red ; legs and mandibles 

 lighter; eyes on a black patch; abdomen black; clypeus and 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



mandibles retreating ; palpal organ dark, very complicated ; tibia 

 swollen and with several projections. 

 One specimen^ Freeville, May. 



EPEIRIDiE. 



Epeirinse. 



Epeira corticaria Em. 



Locally not uncommon, Dryden Lansing Swamp, Sept. 

 Epeira silvatica Em. 



Rare, Fall Creek, Oct. 

 Epeira nordmanni Thor. 



Common, in gorges, Sept., Nov. Several varieties of the species. 

 Epeira cinerea Em. 



Locally common, on cliffs in gorges. Buttermilk and Fall Creeks, 

 Sept., Nov. 



Epeira sclopeteria Clerck. 



Common, Aug., Nov. 

 Epeira patagiata Clerck. 



Infrequent, under bark, Inlet Marsh, Nov. 

 Epeira strix Hentz. 



Common, Aug., Nov. and in sj^ring. 

 Epeira trifolium Hentz. 



Common, Sept., Nov. 

 Epeira marmorea Clerck. 



One specimen. 

 Epeira insularis Hentz. 



Common, Aug., Nov. 

 Epeira thaddeus Hentz. 



Not uncommon. Inlet Marsh, South Hill Marsh, Sept., Oct. 

 Epeira pratensis Hentz. 



Not common. 

 Epeira trivittata Keys. 



Common, Sept., Oct. 

 Epeira domiciliorum Hentz. 



Common, Sept., Oct. 

 Epeira dispiicata Hentz. 



Common, Aug., Oct. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Epeira juniperi Em. 



One specimen. 

 Epeira labyrinthea Hentz. 



Common, Sept., Oct. 

 Epeira globosa Keys. 



Rare. 

 Epeira placida Hentz. 



Frequent in wet places, Fall Creek, Round Marshes, June, Sept. 

 Epeira gibberosa Hentz. 



Common in grass, Aug., Sept. 

 Epeira parvula Keys. 



Common, Sepjt., Oct. 

 Epeira stellata Hentz. 



Infrequent, fields. South Hill, Summit Marsh, Dryden Lansing: 

 Swamp, Round Marshes, Aug. 

 Epeira itbaca McCook MSS. 



Xot common. 

 Cyclosa conica Pallas. 



Very common. 

 Singa variabilis Em. 



Not uncommon, Round Marshes and Avet meadows. 

 Singa maculata Em. 



Infrequent, Buttermilk and Fall Creek. 

 Acrosoma rugosa Hentz. 



One male. 

 Meta menardi Latr. 



Infrequent, Fall Creek, Buttermilk Creek, in dark cliffs, Sept., 

 Oct. 

 Argiope riparia Hentz. 



Common, Sept., Oct. 

 Argiope transversa. 



Not uncommon, Sept., Oct. 

 Argyroepeira hortorum Hentz. 



Not uncommon in grass and herbs, Fall Creek, Six Mile Creek, 

 Sept. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



Tetragnatha vermiformis Em. 



One specimen. 

 Tetragnatha extensa Linn. 



Not uncommon. 

 Tetragnatha grallator Hentz. 



Very common. 

 Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz. 



Common. 

 Tetragnatha straminea Em. 



Common. 

 Tetragnatha caudata Em. 



Rare, Inlet Marsh, males and females ; the latter resemble the 

 former. 



Tetragnatha pallida, nov. sj). Plate V, figs. 88, 88a. 



Total length $ , not including mandibles, 9" mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3" mm. breadth TSmm. 



Length of mandibles 3*4mm. fang 2-8mm. 



Length of tibia and patella IS 10" mm. 



Cephalothorax, legs, palpi, mandibles, mouth-parts and sternum 

 yellowish, lip darker, fang reddish, and tip of palpus a little red- 

 dish ; abdomen gray with many small silvery spots, no other mark- 

 ings ; abdomen long, slender and cylindrical ; narrower than ceph- 

 alothorax ; legs long ; S. E. farther apart than M. E.; lower S. E. 

 smaller than other eyes ; mandibles very long, a large tooth in front ; 

 the largest tooth on side is the distal one, fang bent, tibia of palpus 

 about twice as long as patella. It differs from T. grallator in posi- 

 tion of eyes and shape of mandibles; from T. vermiformis in shaj^e 

 of mandibles and length of tibia of male palpus ; from T. straminea 

 in eyes and mandibles ; from T. extensa in eyes, mandibles and 

 tibia of male palpus ; from T. laboriosa in eyes, mandibles and 

 tibia of male palpus ; from T. caudata in eyes, mandibles and shape 

 of abdomen ; from T. fluviatilis in position of eyes; from T. illin- 

 oiensis in position of eyes. 



Two male specimens. 



Pachygnatha brevis Keys. 



Not uncommon in marshes, Nov., Dec. 

 Pachygnatha autumnalis Keys. 



Not uncommon, Fall Creek, Round Marshes, Six Mile Creek, Oct., 

 Dec. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Pachygnatha xanthostoma Keys. 

 Rare, one specimen. 



Uloborinae. 



Tlloborus plumipes Lucas. 



Rare, Six ]Mile Creek, Fall Creek, Aug. 

 Hyptiotes cavatus Hentz. 

 Very common. 



THOMISID^. 

 Thomisinge. 



Xysticus stomachosus Keys. Plate III, fig. 1. 

 Several specimens. 



Xysticus feroculus Keys. Plate III, figs. 3 and .3a. 



A few specimens, not common. 

 Xysticus distinctus, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 89. 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax 3" mm. 

 Length of sternum Tomm. 



Length of femur I 3" mm. 



Length of femur IV 2" mm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax a light reddish-brown on sides, growing darker 

 and containing a large triangular light spot behind, upper edge 

 straight ; above a broad light stripe, with a median double line ter- 

 minated behind by a black triangle ; in front each side of this line 

 a little tinged with brown; eyes black ; clypeus white; mandibles 

 light ; legs pale, above mottled with brownish and a few black spots 

 and with a white line on front pairs, hind legs more distinctly ringed 

 with black at tip of femur, tip of patella, and base and tip of 

 tibia ; under side of coxse with a few brown linear markings ; sternum 

 light with a dark border, interrupted in front, the field with many 

 dark dots; mouth-parts brownish, abdomen above light brown, 

 white near the apex ; near base a few black spots; near apex a 

 black blotch each side connected by a black line ; in front of these 

 two narrow transverse black bands, broadly interrupted in the 

 middle ; in front of each black band a narrow light band ; venter 

 brown mottled with blackish ; epigynum yellow. The M. E. equal 

 atid equally far apart, the lower nearer the lower S. E. than to each 

 other ; ^[. E. form a quadrangle broader than high. Two rows of 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



6-7 spines on under side of tibite and metatarsi, I and II. Abdo- 

 men broadest behind the middle. 



One adult and several young, Indian Spring. 



Xysticus brunneus. nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 4. 



Total length 9 8-5mra. 



Length of cephalothorax 4" mm. breadth 4" mm. 



Length of sternum 2' mm. breadth l*4mm. 



Length of femur I 3-2mm. tibia I 2"9mm. 



Length of femur IV 2'5mm. tibia IV l"9mm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 23mm. 



Cephalothorax reddish-brown, darker on cephalic part and on 

 sides; more yellow behind ; a brighter narrow stripe on the middle ; 

 clypeus same color ; falces and palpi reddish-brown ; maxillae, lip, 

 sternum and under side of legs lighter, more yellowish, legs, upper 

 side reddish-brown ; distal joints darkest. Abdomen above and 

 below a uniform dark brown, without markings ; spinnerets reddish. 

 Cephalothorax widest a little caudad of middle, much higher at 

 middle than in front; clypeus vertical ; eyes in two nearly equally- 

 bent rows, those of upper row of about equal size and at equal dis- 

 tances from each other ; the four M. E. form a quadrangle wider 

 than high ; the lower M. E. scarcely smaller and slightly nearer 

 each other than the upper M. E.; lower M. E. scarcely nearer 

 the much larger S. E. than each other; sternum much longer than 

 wide ; abdomen rounded ; the epigynum consists of a cavity broader 

 than long at the bottom of which two dark oblong bodies lie separ- 

 ated by a septum. On tibiae I and II two rows of six to seven 

 spines ; on metatarsi I and II two rows of five to six spines. 



One specimen. 

 Xysticus crudelis, nov. sp. Plate III, figs. 5 and oa. 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax 3'9mm. 

 Length of sternum 2" mm. 



Length of femur I 3" mm. 



Length of femur IV 2"4mm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax yellow, with sides reddish-brown, and above on 

 head same color ; the edges of head white ; a narrow median con- 

 sisting of two dark lines; clypeus and eye-region reddish-brown; 

 falces, palpi, mouth-parts, sternum reddish-brown ; upper surlace of 

 legs yellowish, thickly mottled with dark brown, distal joints 

 darker. Abdomen dark brown, lighter around the anterior sides ; 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



sides of dorsum darkest and separated into three parts by light 

 cross lines; venter dark brown, somewhat reddish in the middle, 

 spinnerets yellowish, reddish-brown at base. Cephalothorax higher 

 in middle than in front ; clypeus vertical ; the four M, E. form a 

 quadrangle as broad as high ; the lower M. E. not smaller, and as 

 far from each other as are the upper M. E. from each other, and 

 nearer to the larger S. E. than to each other ; eyes of upper row 

 at about equal distances, and of nearly equal size. On both tibise 

 and metatarsi I and II two rows of five to six spines. 

 Rare. 



Xysticus transversus, nov. sp. 



Total length 

 Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 

 Distance between epigyni 



Cephalothorax light yellowish, with a dark reddish-brown band 

 each side terminated by two black oblong spots ; head reddish- 

 brown, edge white, with a narrow median stripe terminated behind 

 by a black spot; clypeus lighter than sides; base of hills of S. E. 

 white ; falces, palpi, mouth-parts, sternum and under side of legs 

 light reddish-brown, spotted or striped with darker brown, legs 

 above light reddish-brown with darker spots ; a white stripe on 

 femur, patella and tibia I and II. Abdomen brown above, white 

 on posterior sides, and dark brown on venter; spinnerets white with 

 a dark band at base; the brown of dorsum darker toward the apex, 

 and here separated on each side by a few white cross lines into 

 almost black quadrangles. Cephalothorax much higher in middle 

 than in front, widest in middle; clypeus vertical; eyes in two rows 

 about equally curved ; the four M. E. form a quadrangle wider than 

 high ; the lower M. E. as far from each other as are the upper 

 ]\I. E. from each other ; the lower M. E. farther from each other 

 than from the very much larger S. E. ; the eyes of the upper row at 

 about equal distances from each other ; the upper M. E. somewhat 

 larger than the lower M. E. and smaller than the upper S. E. ; 

 abdomen rounded, widest caudad of middle ; on metatarsi I and 

 II two rows of four to five spines, on tibia? I and II two rows of 

 three to four spines. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Not uncommon, Sept. What I take to be the male is smaller 

 4mm. long ; the markings and color similar but brighter ; palpus 

 as figured. 



Xysticus lentus, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 67. 



Total length S 4'5mm. 



Length of femur I 3"8nim. tibial 2"2mm. 



Cephalothorax as broad as long and shorter than femur I. 



Cephalothorax reddish-brown on sides ; with a light stripe in 

 middle above, a darker somewhat triangular area in front part of 

 this light stripe terminated behind by a black triangle; a light 

 band connecting the S. E. ; clypeus and mandibles reddish-brown ; 

 sternum pale, with many small brown dots ; coxje liueated with 

 brown ; underside of legs pale, with a narrow brown stripe and 

 numerous brown dots ; above with darker blotches ; metatarsi and 

 tarsi pale. Abdomen brown above, with small white and dark 

 brown transverse spots on hinder part; edge of abdomen with a 

 white line ; venter creased with white and brown. The M. E. equal 

 and form a square ; lower M. E. nearer to the larger S. E. than to 

 each other, eyes of the upper row at about equal distances. Two 

 rows of four to six spines on under side of tibiae and metatarsi I and 

 II. Male palpi with the two horny claws projecting from the 

 center as in X. triguttatns and X. discursans. 



Two males, 

 Xysticus triguttatus Keys. 



Several males ; one has one of the upper M. E. only about one- 

 sixth the size of the other. 



Xysticus nervosus, nov, sp. Plate III, figs. 8 and 8a. Plate IV. fig. 84. 



Total length 9 ''' ""i»- 



Length of cephalothorax 3-2mm. breadth 3-] mm. 



Length of sternum 2- mm. breadth Tomm. 



Length of femur I 3-2mm. tibia I 2-5mni. 



Length of femur IV 2-5mm. tibia lY I'Smm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 2- mm. 



Cephalothorax light yellowish, sides mottled and veined with 

 reddish-brown; a narrow dark-edged stripe on head terminated 

 behind by a reddish point; clypeus reddish-brown, in one case a 

 light stripe between the two rows of eyes ; falces yellowish, darker 

 toward the base; mouth-parts, sternum, under side of coxa?, femora 

 and palpi light yellow, palpi darker above, rest of legs yellowish- 

 brown, spotted with brown, and with tibia and metatarsi I and II 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



darker toward the tip. Abdomen reddish-brown with many faint 

 white spots ; sides and venter reddish-brown ; spinnerets light yellow. 

 Cephalothorax much higher in middle than in front ; widest at 

 middle ; clypeiis vertical ; eyes in two curved rows ; the eyes of the 

 upper row at about equal distances, and about equal in size ; the 

 M. E. of the lower row, about as close to each other as to the much 

 larger S. E.; the four M. E. make a quadrangle much wider than 

 high ; the lower M. E. smaller and slightly closer to each other than 

 the upper M. E.; abdomen rounded ; two rows of spines on tibite 

 and metatarsi I and II, five to seven spines in each row ; epigynum 

 consists of a cavity wider than long, somewhat triangular in outline, 

 divided by a low septum. 



Total length S 5' mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2'4mm. breadth 2'4mm. 



Length of sternum I'lmm. breadth 1* mm. 



Length of" femur I 3"4mm. tibial 3" mm. 



Length of femur IV 2'lmm. tibia IV l"6mm. 



Cephalothorax and appendages as in the 9 ; abdomen yellowish- 

 brown, venter lighter ; three pairs of elongate reddish-brown spots 

 on caudal part of dorsum ; a white band on the cephalic edge of 

 each spot ; eyes as in the 9 ; abdomen longer in proportion to size 

 than in 9 . 



Net uncommon in meadows. Sept.; taken in copulation. 



Xysticus formosus, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 9. 



Total length 9 6'4mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2"8mm. breadth 2'8mm. 



Length of sternum l*4mm. breadth 1' mm. 



Length of femur I S' mm. tibia I 2* mm. 



Length of femur IV 2- mm. tibia IV 1'3mm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 2* mm. 



Cephalothorax yellow-brown, darkest on head, with a median 

 light line ; sides reddish-brown terminated behind by a darker 

 brown spot ; margin nearly white ; clypeus yellow-brown ; base of 

 hills of S. E. whitish ; mandibles and palpi reddish-brown ; legs 

 darker red-brown, base of femora lighter, tarsus darkest ; sternum 

 yellowish, darker on sides ; venter whitish, sides obliquely striped 

 with brown; spinnerets reddish, dorsum white, with four pair of 

 large triangular spots brown, somewhat connected with each other 

 leaving a median serrated white stripe ; basal spots largest ; quad- 

 rangle of M. E. broader than high ; four M. E. equally large ; 

 upper S. E. larger than upper M. E. and a little smaller than lower 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



S. E., which are very much larger than lower M. E.; eyes of upper 

 row at about equal distances, lower row with M. E. closer to S. E. 

 than to each other ; four pairs of spines on tibia I ; four to five 

 pairs on metatarsus I ; three pairs on tibia II ; four pairs on meta- 

 tarsus II. 



Rare, two specimens; one from woods west of Varna in INIarch. 

 Xysticus limbatus Keys. 



Two males. 

 Xysticus quadrilineatus Keys. Plate III, fig. 10. 



Infrequent. 

 Xysticus gulosus Keys. Plate III, figs. 7 and 7a. 



Infrequent, Six Mile Creek, Sept. 

 Xysticus maculatus Keys. 



Not uncommon, Sept. This may not be this species ; if not it is 

 new. 

 Oxyptila georgiana Keys. Plate III, fig. 11. 



Not uncommon, Inlet Marsh, Oct. 

 Oxyptila conspurcata Thor. Plate III, fig. 12. 



Rare, Fall Creek in woods west of Varna, under leaves in March. 

 Coriarachne versicolor Keys, Plate III, fig. 13. 



Common, under bark in winter. 

 Misumena rosea Keys. Plate III, figs. 15, 15a. 



Several specimens. 

 Uisumena georgiana Keys. 



One specimen. 

 Misumena foliata, nov. sp. Plate III, figs. 17, 17a. 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax 2* mm. 

 Length of sternum 1" mm. 



Length of femur I 2-3mm. 



Length of femur IV l-2ram._ 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax white or slightly yellowish, with a light brown 

 band each side not reaching to caudal margin, the cephalic ends 

 connected through the eye-region by a broad reddish band, that 

 frequently covers the wliole clypeus; eyes surrounded by white; 

 mouth-parts white with black hairs; sternum white. Abdomen 

 whitish, a red horizontal and two oblique bands each side; the 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



latter often faint ; on front of dorsum a red spot ; caudal half of 

 dorsum with two red stripes converging to meet just above the 

 spinnerets ; venter and spinnerets light, the latter sometimes with a 

 red spot at base. Markings on dorsum vary in quantity ; some- 

 times the red spot on front of dorsum is connected with the two 

 bands behind ; sometimes the red bands are so wide that the dorsum 

 appears red with four white bands. Legs whitish, the metatarsi 

 I and II usually a little darker ; tibia I and II frequently with two 

 red bands. Front of cephalothorax as high as in middle ; widest in 

 middle; lower roAv of eyes more curved than upper ; upper row of 

 equal size ; M. E. slightly nearer each other than to the S. E. ; lower 

 row about of the same size and at equal distances; the four M. E. 

 forma quadrangle just as broad as high ; abdomen widest a little 

 caudad of middle; sternum heart-shaped, almost as wide in front as 

 in middle ; body and legs covered with bristles arising from reddish 

 punctures; two rows of spines on tibise I and II, two to four spines 

 in each row ; two rows of five to six spines on metatarsi I and II. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets l'4mm. 



Cephalothorax light yellow, with a band each side of reddish- 

 yellow, reaching from the anterior margin and not quite to the pos- 

 terior ; at end of head a small projection entad from each band ; 

 eye-region whitish ; clypeus a little reddish ; legs a light gray-yellow, 

 distal joints a little redder. Abdomen a gray-white above and 

 below; sternum and mouth-parts white; abdomen Avith many red- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIE^X•ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



dish punctures, each supporting a blackish hair. Area occupied 

 by M. E. as long as broad, a little broader behind ; eyes of upper 

 row of equal size, and at about equal distances; the lower M. E. 

 equal the upper M. E. and are smaller than the lower S. E., to which 

 they are no nearer than to each other ; abdomen pointed behind ; 

 two rows of four to five spines on tibia I and II, two rows of six to 

 seven spines on metatarsi I and II. 

 One young specimen. 



Runcinia aleatorius Hentz. Plate III, figs. 18 and 18a. 

 Thommis aleatorius Hentz S . 

 Runcinia brendelli Keys. 



Two females, one "with abdomen white, the other with abdomen 

 yellow. Aug., on the campus. 



Tmarsus caudatus Hentz. 



Not uncommon in Sept., on trees and fences. 



Philodrominae. 

 Tibellus oblongus Walck. 



Common in sphagnum bogs, May. 

 Philodromus vulgaris Hentz. Plate III, figs. 23 and 23a. 



Common. 

 Philodromus praelustris Keys. Plate III, fig. 19. 



What I take to be this species is not very common ; one speci- 

 men was taken in a house, Oct. 

 Philodromus signifer, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 20. 



Total length 9 juv. 5mm. 



Cephalothorax white or yellowish, dark brown each side ; clypeus 

 light, a brown band extending through the lower row of eyes and 

 ending in the S. E. of the upper row, here enlarged and extending 

 around the upper jNI. E. ; between the upper INI. E. arises a short 

 median brown line, extending a short distance caudad ; a little re- 

 moved from the caudal end each side is a small brown puncture ; 

 legs white Avith brown markings ; several small spots on coxje ; a 

 band at middle and end of femora; patella suffused with brown; 

 tibia with a band at each end and some small spots between ; meta- 

 tarsus and tarsus with spots, the latter often dirty white ; palpi white 

 with brown spots ; mandibles yellowish-white with a few brown 

 marks at base; mouth-parts, sternum and venter white, lip a little 

 darker; spinnerets yellowish white. Abdomen white with a dark 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



brown stripe around each side, not meeting either in front or behind ; 

 above a lighter brown cloud covers nearly the whole dorsum ; on 

 the anterior part is left two white stripes, which meet at about the 

 middle of the abdomen ; behind this a few white spots ; at about 

 the middle of the length of each white stripe is a brown puncture. 

 Cephalothorax widest behind the middle, truncate behind and 

 angles rounded ; the clypeus but slightly oblique and rounded ; eyes 

 all about equal ; all M. E. nearer to S. E. than to each other ; the 

 upper M. E. nearly as far apart as the lower S. E.; the two S. E. 

 and one upper M. E. form an equilateral triangle ; S. E. on tuber- 

 cles ; sternum truncate in front and behind ; extending between 

 hind coxae ; abdomen widest behind the middle ; base slightly emar- 

 ginate ; probably next to last moult. Male young ; same size but 

 legs longer; same coloration except legs with more brown. 

 Not uncommon in woods, under bark in winter. 



Philodromus gracilis, nov. sp. 



Total length 

 Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 

 Distance between epigyn 



Cephalothorax yellowish-brown, darker brown on sides ; clypeus 

 yellowish ; falces yello^w ; lip brown ; maxillte and palpi yellow ; 

 sternum light yellow ; femora and cox?e light yellow, spotted with 

 brown ; other joints darker, with brown spots; venter light ; epigy- 

 num darker ; dorsum of abdomen brown, with many small white 

 spots, larger toward the base ; near caudal end a few short, narrow, 

 curved, light cross-bands, best seen when wet. Cephalothorax not 

 much higher in middle than in front ; upper i-ow of eyes nearly 

 straight; lower row curved; the four M. E. make a quadrangle 

 •wider behind than high, and wider behind than in front ; eyes all 

 of nearly equal size ; the upper M. E. nearer to S. E. than to each 

 other ; the lower M. E. also nearer S. E. than to each other ; cly- 

 peus nearly vertical, a little convex ; abdomen narrower than ceph- 

 alothorax ; widest a little behind the middle ; basal edge straight, 

 as are also the anterior sides ; hind angle acute ; two rows of three 

 spines each on both tibiae and metatarsi I and II ; epigynum con- 

 sists of a cavity broader than long, a club-shaped body lies across 

 it. 



Two specimens, one from Buttermilk Creek, March. 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61 



Philodromus unicolor, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 22. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 



Length of sternum 



Length of femur I 



Length of femur IV 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax and abdomen gray above, the former with a few 

 brown stripes ; legs light gray above, mottled with brown ; falces 

 and lip gray ; maxillre lighter ; sternum white ; legs whitish on 

 under side ; palpi gray above, light beneath, black at tip ; venter 

 whitish; spinnerets yellowish; epigynum reddish. Cephalothorax 

 flat ; widest near caudal end ; clypeus a little oblique ; eyes about 

 equal ; M. E. of both rows nearer S. E. than to each other ; the four 

 M. E. make a quadrangle wider behind than high, and twice as 

 wide behind as in front; abdomen as wide as cephalothorax; hind 

 angle slightly acute; three pairs of spines on under side of both 

 tibite and metatarsi I and II. 



Rare, Sept., on pavement. 



Philodromus ornatus, nov. sp. Plate III, figs 



Total lencrth 9 



1'5 mm. 

 •95mm. 



r8 mm. 



1"9 mm. 

 Distance betw^een epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax yellowish-white, sides brown; clypeus and eye- 

 region yellowish-white ; upper edge of side stripes straight and 

 parallel to each other, falces greenish-yellow; mouth-parts and 

 sternum white ; legs and palpi white, distal joints darker, with 

 scattered dark markings. Abdomen above white ; venter dirty 

 white ; sides black ; at the middle, an angular projection of the 

 black of the side extends into the white above ; toward the apex of 

 the white above some faint dark chevrons; under spinnerets yellow, 

 upper ones dark ; epigynum dark. Cephalothorax and spines as 

 usual ; abdomen one and one half times as wide as cephalothorax ; 

 hind angle right angled ; eyes about equal in size ; all except lower 

 M. E. on prominent white hills ; M. E. of both rows nearer S. E. than 

 each other ; the four M. E. make a quadrangle wider behind, both 

 than in front and high ; sternum sharp pointed behind not jiro- 

 longed between the hind coxa. 



Two specimens. 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Philodromus placidus, nov. sp. Plate III, fi 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax I'd mm. 

 Length of sternum 1* mm. 



Length of femur I r95mm. 



Length of femur IV 1"9 mm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax white or dirty white ; the sides dark reddish- 

 brown, the inner margin of the dark sides not quite parallel ; just 

 behind each upper ]\I. E. a short brownish stripe ; clypeus dirty 

 yellowish white ; legs white with dark markings ; one on upper side 

 of coxse, one at middle and one at end of femora, a few fainter be- 

 yond ; mandibles dirty yellow-white ; mouth-parts nearly white ; 

 sternum white. Abdomen and venter white or dirty white ; spin- 

 nerets reddish ; epigynum red-brown ; on each side of the abdomen 

 is a dark brown stripe which do not meet in front, but suddenly 

 narrowing at the middle of their length and growing fainter behind, 

 meet above the spinnerets ; on anterior dorsum a light brown spear- 

 shaped mark ; at each side of the middle a little brown puncture ; 

 on each side of the end a larger oblique impression ; behind these 

 some faint light brown curved cross-bands. Cephalothorax widest 

 behind the middle; truncate behind, hind angles rounded ; clypeus 

 oblique ; upper row of eyes equal in size and M. E. nearer S. E. 

 than to each other; lower M. E. smaller and nearer 8. E. than to 

 each other ; the upper M. E. nearer the lower S. E. than to any 

 other eyes, and nearly as far apart as are the lower S. E. ; the upper 

 S. E. on prominent tubercles ; sternum truncate in front ; prolonged 

 between the hind coxpe, widened behind and truncate ; abdomen 

 emarginate at base, widest slightly behind the middle. 



Several specimens. 



Philodromus minutus. nov. sp. Plate V, iig. 85. 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax 1* mm. 

 Length of sternum '8 mm. 



Length of femur I l*05mm. 



Length of femur IV 1" mm. 



Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 



Cephalothorax white on yellowish-white, the sides reddish-brown ; 

 legs white or yellowish-white with a few scattered dark markings ; 

 clypeus yellowish ; abdomen dirty white or yellowish ; darker or 

 brown on the anterior sides, blackish near the apex on each side ; 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



none of the brown extends over into the white dorsum as in 

 P. ornatus; above on dorsum three somewhat broad brown stripes, 

 one mesal ending at the middle of the abdomen ; behind this a 

 broader one on each side extending two-thirds of the way to the 

 spinnerets; falces, mouth-parts and sternum yellowish-gray; venter 

 gray or white; spinnerets darker at tips; epigynum reddish-brown, 

 eyes on white hills. Abdomen oval, almost twice as long as wide, 

 not much wider than cephalothorax ; eyes equal, about as usual ; 

 sternum prolonged between the hind cox?e ; anterior angles sharp ; 

 sides pointed between the coxte II and III ; a series of black dots 

 around the edge. 

 Uncommon. 



Philodromus minusculus, nov. ?p. Plate It, tig. 39. 



Total length V 2-9mm. 



Cephalothorax white ; brown on each side ; abdomen white above, 

 black around the sides ; legs light with faint darker bands toward 

 the tip; sternum broad, extending between the hind cox?e, concave 

 in front ; abdomen flat ; venter light, falces reddish ; mouth-parts a 

 little yellowish ; the black along the sides is continuous while in 

 P. 7ninuhis it is interrupted in the middle. Close to P. ininutus, 

 but no stripes on dorsum, the white much clearer while in P. minutus 

 the white is yellowish. 



One specimen. 



Philodromus exilis, nov. sp. Plate II, tig. 40. 



Total length $ 3-8mm. 



Length of cephalothorax l'4nim. breadth l-4mm. 



Length of abdomen 2'4mm. breadth l-2mm. 



Length of sternum 'Smm. breadth 'Gmm. 



Cephalothorax light yellow in middle, sides thickly veined with 

 yellow-brown; clypeus yellowish, mandibles and palpi nearly white; 

 sternum whitish, with little punctures most numerous on the sides, 

 of a lavender color; lung-plates white ; epigynum reddish-yellow; 

 spinnerets yellowish ; venter whitish with lavender punctures, grow- 

 ing more numerous on the sides and behind ; dorsum and upper 

 sides of abdomen white washed with lavender, darkest on the sides 

 and behind ; the plan of markings is similar to P. rufus, a faint 

 median stripe on front of dorsum ; behind this two darker stripes 

 which are indistinctly connected with the side stripe ; coxaj 

 yellowish ; legs all broken off; the sternum is much narrower than 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



in P. rufus and projects farther behind ; eyes similar to P. rufus 

 but the S. E, are farther from each other than in that species. 



One specimen from Freeville, May. 

 Philodromus rufus TValck. Plate III, fig. 26. 



Common. 

 Philodromus laticeps Keys. 



One specimen, S probably this species. 

 Philodromus aureolus Clerck. 



Three young specimens are probably this species. 



LYCOSID^. 



Lycosa frondicola Ein. 



Common among dead leaves in gorges. 

 Lycosa nidicola Em. 



Common among dead leaves in gorges. 

 Lycosa kochi Keys. 



Not uncommon among dead leaves. 

 Lycosa communis Em. 



Frequent under stones, South Hill, Six Mile Creek, McKinney's 

 Twin Glens. 

 Lycosa nigroventris Em. 



Rare, Summit Marsh, Aug. 

 Lycosa pratensis Em. 



Common in fields. 



Lycosa similis, nov. sp. Plate II, fig. 30. 



Total length 9 lO'Smm. 



Length of cephalothorax 4'9mm. breadth 3"7mm. 



Length of abdomen 6* mm. breadth 3"8mm. 



2" mm. breadth I'omra. 



3*2mm. tibia I 2'5mm. 



4"lmm. tibia IV 3* mm. 



Cephalothorax yellow ; eyes surrounded by black ; a brown stripe 

 each side, and a brown margin ; the dorsal light stripe is suddenly 

 narrowed at caudal part of head ; the anterior portion contains a 

 short dark stripe each side ; mandibles reddish-yellow; mouth-parts 

 and sternum yellow, the latter with a faint darker spot in middle ; 

 legs and palpi yellow, no darker markings, finely black haired and 

 black spined ; venter grayish-yellow ; epigynum reddish, very small ; 



Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



spinnerets like venter ; dorsum dark brownish-yellow ; a black 

 spear-shaped outline on front part and- some cross lines behind this; 

 some small dark spots on rest of dorsum ; eyes as usual. 

 Occasional in fields near Indian Spring. 



Xycosa rufiventris, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 35. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



Small female about 10mm. long. 



Cephalothorax red-brown ; eye-region blackish ; a light median 

 stripe, widest in front and gradually tapering toward the hind 

 margin ; a light stripe each side somewhat above the margin, occa- 

 sionally indistinct ; mandibles darker red-brown ; mouth-parts red- 

 brown, lighter at tips ; sternum red-brown ; legs and palpi a little 

 lighter, sometimes with very indistinct darker spots or rings; abdo- 

 men above and below red-brown like sternum ; epigynum sur- 

 rounded by jet black hairs; no dehnite plan of markings, only a 

 few scattered small darker spots on dorsum which are often indis- 

 tinct ; abdomen covered with yellow-brown hairs. First row of 

 eyes not quite as wide as second ; dorsal eyes farther from each other 

 than are the second row of eyes, and much closer to them than to 

 each other; the epigynum is much like that of Trochosa avara, but 

 the species is much larger and no sign of spots on the venter and 

 scarcely a trace of them on dorsum ; it is different from what I have 

 called T. avara. 



Uncommon, Fall Creek, Jan. 



Lycosa humilis, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 36. 



Total length 9 . lO'Smm. 



Length of cephalothorax 5* mm. breadth 3'lmm. 



Length of abdomen 6' mm. breadth o* mm. 



Length of sternum 2-5mm. breadth l.Hmm. 



Length of femur I 3-4mm. tibial 2-5mm. 



Length of femur IV 4-4mm. tibia IV 4- mm. 



Cephalothorax red-brown, darkest on upper sides but not a dis- 

 tinct stripe ; eye-region nearly black; mandibles and .sternum red- 

 brown ; legs light red-brown to yellow-brown, darkest on front 

 pairs, no markings on them ; palpi like legs ; abdomen brown, no 

 stripe ; venter lighter brown ; maxilhe scarcely tipped with white ; 




66 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



spinnerets like venter ; epigynum reddish ; legs black haired and 

 spiued ; abdomen with long black and white hairs and shorter 

 yellowish ones ; sternum with stiff black hairs ; epigynum sur- 

 rounded by white hairs ; first row of eyes shorter than second ; eyes 

 of second row more than their diameter apart, and not larger than 

 dorsal eyes. 



One specimen, Round Marshes, May. 



Lycosa avara Keys. 



Trochosa avara Keys. 



Uncommou, Six Mile Creek, March. 

 Lycosa ocreata Ilentz. 



Infrequent, Six Mile Creek, Fall Creek, Sept. and Oct. 

 Lycosa polita Em. 



One specimen. 

 Lycosa scutulata Hentz. 



One specimen. 

 Lycosa vulpina Em. 



Two specimens. Six Mile Creek, in holes. 

 Lycosa crudelis, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 37. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



Cephalothorax red-brown, darker in eye-region ; with three light 

 stripes, the median one arising from between the second row of eyes 

 as a fine line, gradually widening and reaching the hind margin, 

 widest at dorsal groove ; the side stripes more than their width 

 above the edge, and scarcely as wide as the dorsal stripe ; clypeus 

 dark ; mandibles nearly black ; mouth-parts black, with tips light ; 

 sternum jet black with many black hairs ; under side of coxae 

 blackish with black hairs ; femora yellow-brown ; hinder ones 

 Avith dai'ker spots; other joints yellows-brown, hinder ones with 

 darker rings, on front ones the rings are scarcely apparent ; legs 

 with many black hairs; palpi yellow-brown, tip of last joint darker ; 

 abdomen black, clothed with yellow pubescence; a black spear- 

 shaped mark reaching to the middle of the abdomen ; on sides 

 yellow and black hairs tend to form narrow lines ; venter dark with 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



67 



Length of steruum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



black and yellow hairs, Avhich form four yellow stripes ; the two 

 middle ones do not reach beyond the middle of the abdomen, the 

 others do ; epigynura reddish, surrounded by black hairs ; spinnerets 

 brown ; dorsal eyes much farther from each other than are the eyes 

 of the second row from each other. 

 One specimen. 



Lycosa immaculata, nov. sj). Plate V, fig. ,"58. 



Total length 9 14' mm. 



Length of cephalothorax (3" mm. breadth 4'9mm. 



Length of abdomen 8* mm. breadth 5' mm. 



3" mm. breadth 2'5mm. 



4'9mm. tibia 1 3'3mm. 



5* mm. tibia IV 3'8mm. 



Cephalothorax red-brown, with a narrow light stripe ai-ising be- 

 hind the second row of eyes and reaching the hind margin, slightly 

 wider in the middle ; on the sides a broader indistinct light stripe ; 

 mandibles red-bi'own ; mouth-parts red-brown, lighter at tips ; 

 cephalic half of sternum dark brown, caudal half yellowish ; legs 

 yellowish, coxte with black stripes ; femora some brownish, but 

 without bands ; no bands on other joints ; thickly black haired ; abdo- 

 men may not be normal, dark gray, brownish toward the apex ; when 

 Avet, a faint black spear-shaped outline on basal half; venter lighter 

 yellowish ; epigynum small and reddish ; spinnerets reddish- yellow ; 

 palpi reddish-yellow ; first row of eyes about as wide as second. 



One specimen. 



Lycosa ezitiosa, nov. sj>. Plate I. fi 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



Small $ is but 14-5 mm. long. 



Cephalothorax yellow or reddish-yellow, with a dark stripe each 

 side, leaving a narrow dorsal stripe of light, which expands to sur- 

 round the dorsal groove ; the extreme margin also dark ; a few 

 small dark spots on the light side stripes ; mandibles black with 

 light hair; mouth-parts brownish Avith black hair; sternum yellow 

 or reddish, with a faint darker central mark, and with black hairs; 

 legs yellow or reddish ; the metatarsus and tarsus nearly black ; 

 other joints with dark marks and rings, most distinct on the tibia ; 




68 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



under side of coxse with a large brownish -black spot ; tarsus of 

 palpus black, rest of palpus yellowish ; abdomen dark brown above, 

 light beneath ; venter spotted with many small black dots, some- 

 times forming a band just behind the lung slits ; these small black 

 spots also on dorsum, but not so prominent ; also a spear-shaped 

 black outline on front of dorsum ; spinnerets brownish-yellow ; legs 

 with many black spines. 



Several specimens. 

 Lycosa oblonga, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 40. 



Total length 9 20* mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 9* mm. breadth 6"8mm. 



Length of abdomen 12' mm. breadth 7*4mm. 



4"6mm. breadth 3"5inm. 



7" mm. tibia I 5' mm. 



7* mm. tibia IV 0'5mm. 



Cephalothorax dark brown, with a narrow light stripe arising 

 between the second row of eyes, passing caudad, widening to sur- 

 round the dorsal groove, then narrowing and reaching the hind 

 margin. A few light spots on the lower sides but not forming a 

 stripe; mandibles jet black; mouth-parts and sternum black; 

 legs and palpi black, with yellowish markings on the femora, 

 partly rings and partly spots ; on the tibia and patella a ring ; other 

 joints not distinctly marked. Abdomen dark brown, thickly 

 covered with short golden-yellow pubescence, on the sides and 

 venter leaving many small spots of black hairs ; above no mark- 

 ings ; the hairs are brightest toward the apex of the abdomen ; 

 spinnerets dark brown ; region of epigynum with many black 

 hairs ; a spot of yellow hairs on each lung-plate ; a band of black 

 just caudad of the lung-slits. First row of eyes almost as wide as 

 second ; dorsal eyes about as those of second row and farther from 

 each other than the latter; epigynum very small. 



One specimen. 



Fardosa lapidicina Em. 



Common in gorges among shale. 

 Pardosa pallida Em. 



Uncommon, Six Mile Creek, Fall Creek, Sept. 

 Pardosa annulata, nov. sp. Plate I, fig. 41. 



Total length 9 5' mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2'4mm. breadth 2* mm. 



Length of abdomen 2'6mm. breadth l'7mm. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Cephalothorax with a broad reddish-yellow stripe each side, 

 above this a broader dark stripe with irregular edges ; extreme 

 margin of cephalothorax somewhat darkened ; on dorsum a reddish- 

 yellow stripe, widest in front ; constricted at end of head and then 

 tapering caudad ; eye-region black ; clypeus reddish-yellow ; mandi- 

 bles similar ; legs and palpi light reddish-yellow, ringed with black, 

 rings on femora not always complete ; sternum yellowish, often 

 with a black stripe extending from the caudal end toward the 

 middle; sometimes a few other black marks ; on front of dorsum a 

 triangular reddish-yellow stripe not reaching quite to the middle of 

 the abdomen ; rest of dorsum is a brown netAvork, yellow between 

 the meshes ; the network looks like cross-lines on the meson but at 

 sides, irregular ; venter lighter ; base yellowish, beyond brownish ; 

 spinnerets yellowish; front margin ofepigynum raised and dark 

 coh)red, the hind part also dark colored, the intermediate part so 

 light as to be hardly distinguishable. 



Uncommon. 



Pardosa venusta, nov. sp. Plate I, figs. 42, 42a. 



Length 9 5-8mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2-7mm. breadth l-9mm. 



Length of abdomen 3-lmm. breadth l-9mm. 



Cephalothorax dark brown, with a few indistinct yellowish spots 

 near the sides, eye-region black ; a broad central yellowish stripe, 

 contracted in front of dorsal groove, then enlarging to surround 

 the groove and again contracting behind it, and reaching the hind 

 margin ; mandibles yellowish with a broAvnish spot near base ; legs 

 and palpi pale Avith darker rings ; sternum black ; venter grayish ; 

 spinnerets light ; sides and dorsum darker, almost black, with many 

 pale yellowish spots; a median basal stripe pointed behind, not 

 quite reaching the middle of dorsum, yellowish ; a spot each side of 

 this at base yellowish ; at the hind end of this stripe on each side 

 two yellow spots, the hind pair containing a black dot ; behind this 

 tAvo pairs of similar; spots, united on meson, each containing a 

 black dot ; just above the spinnerets several narrow cross-bands of 

 yellow; each side of the median markings, there are other yellowish 

 spots, some quite large, making the abdomen look like a Ccclotes ; 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



epig\'num quite small ; in what I take to be a young $ the abdo- 

 men is narrower, but the markings the same. 



Several specimens. 

 Pardosa brunnea Em. 



Two specimens. 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown with a median light stripe gradu- 

 ally tapering behind ; eye-region blackish ; mandibles and sternum 

 red-brown ; mouth-parts a little lighter ; legs and palpi red-brown, 

 with dark spots and rings more distinct on hind pair ; abdomen 

 above and below red-brown, Avith light brown hair; markings not 

 distinct ; a spear-shaped blackish outline on front part of dorsum ; 

 beliind this a few distinct cross-lines, and some small darker spots 

 each side ; epigynum reddish ; dorsal eyes almost as close to each 

 other as to the eyes of second row. In what I take to be the $ the 

 head is somewhat narrower at the cephalic end ; length 7'5 mm. ; 

 colors similar to 9 • 



Not uncommon. 



Pardosa albopatella Em, 



Not uncommon, Six Mile Creek. 

 Pardosa nigropalpis Em. 



Several specimens, 

 Pardosa montana Em. 



Two si)ecimens pi'obably this species. 



Pardosa moesta, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 44. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



Cephalothorax almost uniform reddish-brown, somewhat lighter 

 in the middle, head nearly black ; clypeus and mandibles yellowish ; 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



71 



sternum black ; legs yellowish, redder toward the tips, no distinct 

 rings, but some faint darker markings on side of femora ; palpi 

 yellowish ; dorsum of abdomen nearly black, a little reddish tinge ; 

 venter reddish-broAvn with a narrow black line each side, and a 

 broader black stripe in the middle ; very slight trace if any of 

 lighter markings on the dorsum ; dorsal eyes not as close together 

 as in P. annulata or P. pallida. 

 One specimen. 



f ardosa obsoleta, nov. sp. Plate III, fig. 45. 



Length 9 S'Smm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2"3mm. breadth 2* mm. 



Length of abdomen 3" mm. breadth l*9mm. 



A larger specimen, apparently the same species is 7 mm. long. 

 Cephalothorax dark brown ; eye-region black ; with a broad median 

 rufous stripe, much constricted in front of dorsal groove, then 

 enlarging to surround the groove and then becoming smaller; 

 mandibles reddish-yellow ; sternum black ; legs and palpi yellowish, 

 with darker incomplete rings, these only apparent on the upper sur- 

 face of the legs ; epigynum reddish ; venter grayish ; sides and dor- 

 sum nearly black, with faint, apparently irregular blotches of 

 yellowish ; the basal stripe not seen ; somewhat similar to P. montana 

 but the legs paler and less distinctly ringed ; all the markings are 

 indistinct. 



Two specimens. 

 Pirata piratica Clerck. 



Uncommon. 

 Pirata insularis Em. 



Not uncommon. 

 Pirata montana Em. 



Uncommon. 



Pirata montanoides, nov. sp. Plate I,*fig. 46. 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Length of sternum 

 Length of femur I 

 Length of femur IV 



1*8 mm. 

 1*9 mm. 

 •82mm. 

 1*4 mm. 

 Vi mm. 



breadth 

 breadth 

 bi'eadth 

 tibia I 

 tibia IV 



owmm. 

 I'omm. 

 I'onun. 

 •Tnini. 

 1" mm. 

 rSnini. 



Cephalothorax yellow with a dark stripe each side, somewhat 

 widest behind ; eyes surrounded by black ; a line each side, reaching 




72 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



from dorsal groove toward the second row of eyes ; mandibles, 

 sternum, mouth-parts, legs and palpi yellow ; legs in one specimen 

 with indistinct darker rings ; abdomen yellow above and below ; 

 epigynum reddish ; spinnerets yellow ; a small black mark on 

 middle of venter ; above on dorsum many irregular black spots 

 which leave a central yellow stripe divided by dark cross-lines; 

 very similar to P. montana; cephalothorax a little narrower than in 

 that species; epigynum looks like two reddish spots. 

 Several specimens. 



Cephalothorax brown, black around the eyes, a yellowish stripe 

 in middle, widest at cephalic end, gradually tapering to the caudal 

 margin ; this encloses two lines which extend each side from the 

 dorsal groove to eyes of the second row ; no side stripes ; mandibles 

 yellowish ; sternum yellow, with a dark margin ; legs yellow with no 

 markings, distal joints darker ; abdomen brownish above and 

 below ; spinnerets yellowish, epigynum blackish ; a light yellowish 

 stripe above in middle of dorsum, very faint at base, and behind 

 divided by several blackish cross-lines ; legs wnth fine black hairs 

 and long red-brown spines ; epigynum appears as a short transverse 

 dark spot. 



Several specimens. Fall Creek, March. 



Pirata minuta Em. 



One specimen. 



Pirata exigua, nov. sji. Plate I, fig. 48. 



Total length 9 



Length of cephalothorax l"4mm. 



Length of abdomen l"6mm. 



Length of femur I T mm. 



Length of femur IV l'9mm. 



Cephalothorax yellowish, with a black stripe each side, widest 

 toward the caudal end ; the extreme margins of cephalothorax also 

 black ; eye-region black ; median groove black, from the cephalic end 

 of which arises two stripes diverging toward the dorsal eyes ; man- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



dibles brownisli-yelloAV ; legs and palpi yellowisli, some dark marks 

 on femora ; patella tipped Avith dark, and tibia Avitli two rings ; 

 sternum yellowish with many small black dots; dorsum of abdomen 

 black with many small yellow spots ; venter yellowish, with a few 

 black lines and spots ; epigynum reddish ; spinnerets greenish ; 

 upper ones darker; lobe of epigynum reddish, sides of lobe darker. 

 One specimen, Enfield Creek, Sej)t. 



Aulonia aurantica Em. 



One specimen. 

 Ocyale undata Hentz. 



Common. 

 Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz. 



Common. 

 Dolomedes urinator Hentz. 



One specimen. Six Mile Creek, Apr. 

 Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz. 



Frequent on edge of streams. 

 Dolomedes scriptus Hentz. 



Infrequent, Fall Creek, on edge of stream, Sept. 



ATTID^. 



Phidippus mystaceus Hentz. 



Common ; in cases under stones in winter. 

 Phidippus albomaculatus Keys. 



One specimen, female. 

 Phidippus rauterbergii Peck. 



A few immature specimens agree very well with the description 

 Fall Creek. 

 Phidippus mccookii Peck. Plate IV, fig. 83. 



One male 10 mm. long probably this species. 

 Phidippus tripunctatus Hentz. 



Common. 

 Phidippus cardinalis Hentz. 



Infrequent. 

 Phidippus rufus Hentz. 



Common. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Fhidippus minutus nov. sp. Plate V., figs. 27 and 2ra. 



Total length 9 7'7mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 3' mm. breadth 2-6ram. 



Length of abdomen 4'9mm. breadth 2"9mm. 



Leg formula 4-1-2-3. 



Cephalothorax and abdomen black, covered with golden yellow 

 short hair, and scattered long black and white hairs ; clypeus 

 whitish yellow ; mandibles dark, somewhat greenish iridescent ; 

 legs reddish with black rings ; palpi yellowish, with whitish-yellow 

 hairs ; sternum dark-red brown with light hairs ; venter red-brown 

 on sides, with yellowish hairs, a broad central light stripe, limited 

 each side by dark ; epigynum and spinnerets reddish ; dorsum with 

 a band at base, losing itself on the sides ; another oblique band on 

 side ; two rows of three spots on caudal part of dorsum, Avhite. 

 Second row of eyes not quite twice as far from dorsal as from lateral 

 eyes ; dorsal eyes very prominent ; first pair of legs largest ; tibia I 

 with three strong black spines at tip ; anterior coxae separated by 

 almost width of labium ; sternum less than one and one-half times 

 as long as broad. 



One specimen. 

 PMlaeus princeps Peck. Plate II, fig. 32. 



Three males which may belong to this species. 

 PMlaeus militaris Hentz. 



Abundant. 

 Dendryphantes capitatus Hentz. 



Abundant. 

 Dendryphantes elegans Ilentz. 



One male specimen. 

 Dendryphantes flavus Peck. >. 



Not uncommon ; under stones in cases during the winter. 

 Dendryphantes flavipedes Peck. 



Three females, quite similar to the males ; epigynum as on Plate 

 II, fig. 33. 



Dendryphantes insignis, nov. sp. Plate V, figs. 28 and 28a. 



Total length 9 4-6mm. 



Length of cephalothorax l*8mm. breadth l*3mm. 



Length of abdomen 2-9mm. breadth l-8mm. 



Leg formula 4—1-3-2. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Cephalothorax red, with white pubescence and long scattered 

 black hairs ; eyes on a black band ; clypeus with white hairs ; falces 

 reddish ; palpi light, with white liairs ; legs yellowish, with reddish 

 at ends of joints, front legs darker; sternum red-brown. Abdomen 

 whitish-yellow, with white pubescence and long black hairs ; four 

 red-browu spots each side on dorsum, more or less connected aci'oss 

 the middle by chevrons, the basal ones connected by a curved line; a 

 spot above apex red-brown ; spinnerets and median stripe on venter 

 red-brown ; sides and rest of venter light ; epigynum dark ; sides with 

 a faint trace of reddish oblique bands. Sternum broad, truncate in 

 front ; anterior coxae separated by more than width of labium ; first 

 legs much the stoutest; first and second pairs of legs as in D.flavi- 

 pedes. 



Not uncommon. 



Dendryphantes ornatus, nov. sp. Plate IV, fig. 29; Plate V, fig. 29. 



Total length 9 4"9mm. 



Length of cephalothorax l-8mm. breadth TSmm. 



Length of abdomen o'lmm. breadth 2' mm. 



Leg formula 4-1-3-2. . 



Cephalothorax reddish ; eyes on black baud ; with short white 

 pubescence and long scattered white and black hairs ; clypeus with 

 white hairs; mandibles reddish ; sternum dark red brown ; legs and 

 palpi yellowish, the femora of first j^air more red-brown ; legs dis- 

 tinctly ringed with red-browu, and with white pubescence and 

 longer black hairs. Abdomen whitish-yellow, with short whitish 

 pubescence and long white and a few black hairs ; dorsum with 

 red-brown bands more or less connected with an irregular central 

 stripe ; basal band horseshoe-shaped ; three others behind it more 

 straight ; upper side white ; lower side with a broad red-brown 

 stripe; venter with a broad median red-brown stripe, constricted 

 just in front of red-brown spinnerets, and then widened to surround 

 them. First legs stoutest, but not so large as in some species ; 

 anterior coxse separated by more than w^idth of labium; sternum 

 oblong ; abdomen swollen with eggs. 



One specimen. 



Dendryphantes exiguus, nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 30. 



Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Leg formula 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Ceplialothorax reddish, with reddish pubescence which has a 

 faint greenish tinge, more green close to the eyes, on sides whiter ; 

 eyes on black spots ; long black hairs scattered over surface ; long 

 white hairs on clypeus ; mandibles reddish ; palpi and legs yellowish, 

 with short white hairs and longer black ones ; no bands on legs, 

 nor stripes; first pair more brownish, sternum light red with white 

 hairs. Abdomen red-brown, with pubescence like cephalothorax, 

 and scattered long black hairs ; a white band at base and anterior 

 sides ; two rows of small white spots, those behind elongated 

 obliquely ; a dark spot behind each light one ; two white spots on 

 each side ; venter with white pubescence and long black hairs ; 

 spinnerets light; epigynum dark. First legs stoutest; anterior 

 coxi?e separated by scarcely Avidth of labium; sternum more con- 

 tracted in front than in D. insignis. 



One specimen. 

 Attus palustris Peck. 



Not rare, Inlet Marsh, May ; Freeville, Aug. 



Icius formosus, nov. sp. Plate Y, fig. 31. 

 Total length 



Length of cephalothorax 

 Length of abdomen 

 Leg formula 



Cephalothorax dark red-brown ; eye-region black, bordered be- 

 hind by a white band ; some patches of white near eyes, and a 

 narrow stripe just above lower margin ; rest of cephalothorax 

 probably covered with yellowish, nearly hyaline short hairs; 

 mandibles dark red-brown ; palpi, first legs and sternum similar ; 

 other coxse yellow ; femora nearly black ; other joints yellowish or 

 reddish ; many strong spines on upper side of all femora. Abdo- 

 men black, above with a basal white band of hairs, and several 

 white spots along each side ; rest probably covered with yellowish, 

 hyaline hairs like cephalothorax ; venter gray with white hairs and 

 a central dark stripe. Anterior coxse not separated by width of 

 labium ; posterior coxse touching ; second eyes half way between 

 dorsal and lateral eyes ; first legs longest and strongest ; eye-region 

 equally wide in front and behind ; cephalothorax widest at middle ; 

 spinnerets black. 



One specimen. 

 loius albovittatus Keys. 



Several males ; not Wala albovittata Keys. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Icius palmarum Hentz. 



One male ; Fall Creek, Aug. 

 Icius mitratus Ilentz. 



Not uncommon, in cases on evergreen trees. Fall Creek, Oct. ; 

 Six Mile Creek, Sept. 



Icius hartii Em. 1S92. Plate V, fig. 32. 

 Icius moestus, nov. sp. Plate V, fig. 3.3. 



Length ^ 5"lnim. 



Length of cephalothorax 2'3mm. breadth I'Snim. 



Length of abdomen 2*8mm. breadth l*5mm, 



Cephalothorax reddi^sh ; eyes connected by a black stripe ; whole 

 cephalothorax probably clothed with white hairs ; mandibles and 

 mouth-parts red-brown ; sternum nearly black ; venter with a broad 

 reddish median stripe, and light each side, clothed with white hairs ; 

 all except front coxre yellow ; these are reddish; femur I reddish, 

 nearly black above ; rest of leg I reddish, tarsus pale ; base of patella 

 pale ; basal half of femora II, III and IV yellow like coxae, rest dark 

 red-brown ; patella and tibia a little lighter, metatarsus and tarsus 

 pale, the form^er with tip red-brown ; claw blackish. Abdomen dark 

 reddish above and on sides ; badly rubbed ; with a short basal whitish 

 band ; traces of yellowish spots on dorsum ; two pairs near the apex 

 are largest, forming incomplete chevrons ; in front of them the spots 

 more median. First leg much the stoutest; head projecting over 

 base of mandibles; mandibles oblique ; palpi red-brown ; three pairs 

 of large spines near tip of tibia I ; and one pair at middle, and one 

 at tip of metatarsus I. 



One specimen. 

 Icius elegans Kej's. 



One young specimen, probably this species, Burdick's Glen, Sept. 

 Eris octavus Ilentz. 



One specimen. 

 Eris nervosus Peck. 



One specimen. 

 Hasarius hoyi Peck. 



One young specimen. 



Habrocestum latens, nov. sp. Plate V, tig, 34. 



Total length 9 5* mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 2-5mm. breadth ]'9mm. 



Length of abdomen 2-6mm. breadth l-8mra. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Cephalothorax j'ellow brown ; eye-region covered with black, 

 indented behind by the yellow-brown, with long black hairs, a few 

 reddish hairs around eyes; clypeus with some long white hairs; 

 legs yellowish, without markings, some black hairs and some 

 shorter colored ones, often red or yellowish ; sternum nearly white, 

 Avith edges dark ; mouth -parts, coxse, and under side of femora 

 nearly white ; dorsum of abdomen very densely covered with some- 

 what long colored hairs, red, golden-yellow, and white, with three 

 oblique elongate spots of black each side ; long black hairs scattered 

 over dorsum ; venter dark gray with white hairs ; epigynum dark; 

 anterior coxse separated by width of labium ; sternum oblong, 

 pointed behind ; first leg stoutest. 



Xot uncommon. 



Habrocestum coecatum Hentz. 



Uncommon, males ; the spine on the tarsus of the palpus is 

 larger and longer than in Peckham's figure. 



Habrocestum peregrinum Peck. 



Xot uncommon ; Fall Creek, Sept. 

 Habrocestum splendens Peck. ' 



Frequent, Fall Creek, Aug. and Sept., Buttermilk Creek. 



Saitis pulex Hentz. 



Common. 

 Astia vittata Hentz. 



Abundant. 

 Astia vittata var. niger Peek. 



One specimen. 

 Epiblemum scenicum Clerck. 



Common. 

 Admestina wheelerii Peck. 



One female which is probably this species. 



Total length 9 4'3mm. 



Length of cejihalothorax l-4mm. breadth •9mm. 



Length of abdomen 2'9mm. breadth l'4mra. 



Cephalothorax red-brown, nearly black on head; with white 

 hairs, a few rusty hairs in the band connecting eyes ; legs pale 

 yellowish with black marks and rings ; mandibles dark brown ; 

 abdomen gray with silvery spots, and a broad median dark brown 

 serrated stripe; several small brown spots each side; si^innerets 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



project beyond the end of abdomen ; pale above and brown 

 beneath, a brown stripe on each lower side; venter with a few 

 small brown spots mixed in with the silvery ; epigynnm bi-own ; 

 sternum brown with white hairs; abdomen with white hairs; 

 cephalothorax low; quadrangle of eyes wider behind ; second row 

 of eyes half way between lateral and dorsal eyes ; anterior ]M. E. 

 very large; head overhanging the mandibles; abdomen swollen 

 with eggs ; broadest behind the middle ; anterior coxa; nearly 

 touching; posterior coxse touching ; sternum widest between coxte II 

 and III; legs short, first pair stoutest; epigynum as figured on 

 Plate II, fig. 34. 

 One specimen. 



Marptusa familiaris Hentz. 

 Common. 



Marptusa rupicola Hentz. Plate IV, figs. 49 and 49a. 



Total length 9 10-4mm. 



Length of cephalothorax 4*omm. breadth 3"5mm. 



Length of abdomen 6" mm. breadth 3" mm. 



Male about same size, abdomen a little narrower. 



Cephalothorax red-brown ; eye-region black ; hinder sides 

 brownish, and a brownish angular cross-band behind, leaving only 

 a yellow-brown spot on hind margin ; mandibles red-brown ; first 

 leg yellow-brown, much darker at ends of joints ; other legs more 

 yellowish with indistinct darker rings ; sternum yellowish ; anterior 

 coxse separated, posterior ones touching ; venter gray or yellowish ; 

 in female with a faint darker median stripe; epigynum reddish, as 

 is also the region of the male openings ; spinnerets light; dorsum 

 and sides dark gray with a light central stripe, the posterior part of 

 which is made up of chevrons, and contains a more or less distinct 

 serrated narrow gray stripe ; other light spots and lines are mixed 

 in with the gray on the sides, especially in the $ ; body covered 

 Avith white hairs; a cluster of stiff black bristles just below and 

 behind the lateral eyes. Cephalothorax broad and low ; eye-region 

 a little broader in front than behind, more so in S than in 9 ; 

 dorsal eyes look more dorsad than in M. familiaris. 



Resembles the dry cliflfs on which it is found ; in Fall Creek and 

 Six Mile Creek ; three specimens ; the first pair of legs of the i is 

 very stout and long; patella and tibia I measuring 5*5 mm. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Homalattus cyaneus Hentz. 



One specimen. 

 Neon nellii Peck. 



Not uncommon under leaves in gorges. In winter often 

 attached to a little case. 

 Zygoballus bettini Peck. 



Several specimens. 

 Synemosyna formica Hentz. 



Two specimens, Six Mile Creek and Fall Creek. 

 Synageles picata Hentz. 



One specimen. 



Explanation of Plates. 

 Plate I. 



Fig. 39, Lycosa exitiosa; fig. 41, Pardosa anmdata ; fig. 42, Par- 

 dosa venusta ; fig. 43, Pardosa gracilis ; fig. 46, Pirata montanoides; 

 fig. 47, Pirata agilis ; fig. 48, Pirata exigua; fig. 50, Pardosa gracilis ; 

 fig. 51, Miearia Jormicoides ; fig. 52, Thargalia agilis; fig. 53, Thar- 

 galia perplexa ; fig. 54, Thargalia fallax ; fig. 55, Prosthesima rufula ; 

 fig. 56, Prosthesima frig ida ; fig. 57, Prosthesima hlanda ; fig. 58, 

 Prosthesima immaculata ; fig. 59, Gnaphosa humilis ; fig. 60, Drasstis 

 humilis ; fig. 61, Clubiona obesa ; fig. 62, Cluhiona tibialis; fig. 63, 

 Clubiona crassipalpis ; fig. 64, Clubiona pygmea ; fig. 65, Clubiona 

 abbotti ; fig. 66, Clubiona lenta ; fig. 67, Phrurolithus minutus ; fig. 

 68, Agroeca ornata ; fig. 70, Phrurolithus palustr is ; fig. 71, Cybceus 

 giganteus ; fig. 72, Ccelotes fidelis ; fig. 74, Ccelotes altilis ; fig. 76, 

 Cicurina creber ; fig. 77, Cicurina placida ; fig. 78, Dictyna foxii ; 

 fig. 79, Dietxjna maxima; fig. 81, Dictyna decorata; fig. 82, Dictyna 

 dubia. 



Plate II. 



Fig. 14, Tmeticus obscurus ; fig. 17, Tmelicus rtisticus ; fig. 24, 

 Tmeticus viimdus ; fig. 27, Microneta minidissima ; fig. 28, Linyphia 

 variabilis ; fig. 29, Diplostyla jyallida ; fig. 30, Lycosa similis ; fig. 

 32, Phil(Eus princeps ; fig. 33, Dendryphantes flavipedes ; fig. 34, 

 Admestina wheeleri ; fig. 37, Misumena joliata ; fig. 38, Linyphia 

 conferta ; fig. 39, Philodromus minusculus ; fig. 40, Philodromus 

 exilis ; fig. 41, Bathyphantes decorata; fig. 45, Bathyphantes tristis ; 

 fig. 47, Microneta jiO'lustris ; fig. 48, Microneta luteola ; fig. 50, 

 Microneta complicata ; fig. 52, Microneta gigantea ; fig. 53, Microneta 

 distincta ; fig. 54, Ceratinella placida ; fig. 55, Ceratinella formosa ; 

 fig. 56, Ceratinella anmdipes ; fig. 57. Ceratinella pygmea; fig. 58, 

 Ceratinella mnesta : fig. 60, Ceratinella minuta ; fig. 65, Bcdhyphantes 

 unimaculata: fig. 67, Xysticus lentus. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Plate III. 



Fig. 1, Xystlcus sto macho sus ; fig. 3, Xysticus feroculus ; fig. 4, 

 Xysticus bruniieus ; fig. 5, Xysiiciis crudells ; fig. 6, Xysticus trans- 

 versus ; fig. 7, Xysticus gnlosus ; fig. 8, Xysticxis nervosvs ; fig. 9, 

 Xysticus formosus ; fig. 10, Xysticus quad rilineatus ; fig. 11, Oxyptila 

 georgiana; fig. 12, Oxyptila conspurcata ; fig. 13, Coriarachne versi- 

 color ; fig. 15, Misumena rosea ; fig. 17, Misumena Joliata ; fig. 18, 

 Runcinia aleatorius ; fig. 19, Philodromus pj-cclustris ; fig. 20, Philo- 

 dromus signifer ; fig. 21, Philodromus gracilis ; fig. 22, Philodromus 

 unicolor ; fig. 23, Philodromus vulgaris ; fig. 24, Philodromus 

 ornatus; fig. 25, Philodromus j^laeidus ; fig. 26, Philodromus rvfus ; 

 fig. 35, Lycosa rufiventris ; fig. 36, Lycosa hum His; fig. 37, Lycosa 

 crudelis ; fig. 40. Lycosa oblon.ga ; fig. 44, Pardosa mocsta ; ^g. 45, 

 Pardosa ohsoleta ; fig. 86, Neophanes pallidus ; fig. 87, Neophanes 

 pallidus variety ; fig. 89, Xysticus distinctus. 



Plate IV. 



Fig. 1, Lophocarenum tristis; fig. 2, Lophocarenum unimacu- 

 latum ; fig. 3, Lophocarenum castaneum ; fig. 4, Lophocarenum 

 ininiatum ; fig. 5, Lophocarenum venustum; fig. 6, Lophocarenmn 

 parvum ; fig. 9, Lophocarenum erigonoides ; fig. 8, Lophocare^ium 

 ^renatoidetim ; fig. 10, Lopjhocaremim formosurn ; fig. 11, Lophocar- 

 ■enuni arvensis ; fig. 12, Lophocarenum longior ; fig. 13, Tmeticus 

 unicorn; fig. 15, Tmeticus Jiaveolus ; fig. 16, Tmeticus luxtiosus ; fig. 

 18, Tmeticus humilis ; fig. 19, Tmeticus mcestus ; fig. 20, Tmeticus 

 deb His ; fig. 21, Tmeticus palustris ; fig. 22, Tmeticus distinctus ; fig. 

 23, Tmeticus maculatus ; fig. 26, Bathyphantes complicata ; fig. 29, 

 Dendryphantes ornatus ; fig. 49, Marptusa rupicola ; fig. 60, Cerati- 

 nella minuta ; fig. 69, Prosthesima minima; fig. 73, Ccelotes longi- 

 tarsus ; fig. 74, Cvelotes altilis ; fig. 79, Dictyna maxima; fig. 81, 

 Dictyna decorata; fig. 83, Phidippus McCookii ; fig. 84, Xysticus 

 nervosus. 



Plate V. 



Fig. 7, Lophocarenum exiguum ; fig. 10, Lophocarenum formoswn ; 

 fig. 27, Phidippus minatus ; fig. 28, Dendryphantes insignis ; fig. 29, 

 Dendryphantes ornatus; fig. 30, Dendryphantes exiguus ; fig. 31, 

 /ctMS formosus, upper fig.; Diplostyla alboventris, lower fig.; fig. 

 32, 7cn(s hartii ; fig. 33, Je/us m(jestus; fig. 34, Habrocestum 

 latens ; fig. 35, Cornicularia formosa ; fig. 36, Cornicularia 

 placida ; fig. 38, Lycosa immaculata ; fig. 42, Bathyphantes 

 pallida; fig. 43, Theridium kentuekyense ; fig. 44. Tmeticus gnavus ; 

 fig. 46, Microneta latens; fig. 49, Microneta fiaveola ; fig. 51, Micro- 

 neta frontata ; fig. 58, Ceratinella nucsta ; fig. 59, Ceratinella bulbosa ; 

 ng. 61, Ceratinella similis ; fig. 63, Ceratinopsis frontatus ; fig. 64, 

 Graynmonota venusta ; fig. 66. Bathyphantes inornata ; fig. 71, 

 Cybceus giganteus ; fig. 72, Ccelotes fidelis ; fig. 85, Philodromus 

 minutus ; fig. 88, Tetragnatha pallida. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



REMARKS ON THE QUANTITY. RATE OF CONSUMPTION AND PROBABLE 

 DURATION OF NORTH AMERICAN COAL. AND THE CONSE- 

 QUENCE TO AIR-BREATHING ANIMALS OF ITS ENTIRE 

 COMBUSTION. 



BY ISAAC J. WISTAR. 



The object of this paper is to attempt a calculation of the existing 

 quantity of available coal in IS^orth America, the pre.sent and pros- 

 pective rate of its consumption, its probable duration, and some of 

 the physical consequences of its entire combustion. As much labor 

 has been bestowed on the United States Census returns of 1889, 

 being the year reported upon in the Census of 1890 ; and as under 

 legislation of unprecedented stringency its officials have enjoyed an 

 unusually favorable opportunity of demanding and obtaining a 

 great number of reports from every quarter of the country, the 

 figures and conclusions of that Census have been followed where 

 applicable, though not without grave doubts that its statements 

 respecting the carboniferous area may be optimistic and excessive, 

 and regret for its silence on the equally important subject of thick- 

 ness and quantity. 



The entire carboniferous area of the United States including the 

 post carboniferous beds of Virginia and Xorth Carolina, but exclud- 

 ing the doubtful, much eroded and partly ruined beds of the Rocky 

 Mountain territory, as to which scarcely an estimate is, or could 

 now properly be ventured, is given at 219,080 square miles, being 

 larger than any former estimate. By the carboniferous area is 

 meant, however, not the area of mineable coal or any approxima- 

 tion or reference to it, but the whole of that area over which the 

 rocks of the carboniferous series (excluding the subcarboniferous of 

 geologists), as indicated by their relative position, petrology and 

 fossils, come to and constitute the present surface or are Avithin 

 reach of its mining operations. A large proportion of this area 

 never did contain coal, and another portion has long since lost what- 

 ever it once contained, the first in consequence of local failures of 

 the original deposits, and the last because of subsequent foldings 

 and contortions, followed by the erosion and loss of their upper or 

 anticlinal folds. In all parts of the coal fields, areas of original 

 barrenness are extensively interspersed, and in much of the richest 

 coal district of Pennsylvania, the seat of maximum disturbance, and 

 to a less extent, in other portions of the field, minor areas are found 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



where large portions, sometimes amounting to more than two-thirds 

 of the original beds, have been carried bodily away along with their 

 adjacent protecting rocks, the detritus now resting far out on the 

 sea bottom, or scattered along the ancient channels of drainage 

 long since obsolete and covered deep with foreign material. 



Again, much of the coal which has escaped this ruin possesses 

 little or no present or future economic value because of such reasons 

 as the following : 



1. Its crushed and impaired condition, due to repeated and ex- 

 cessive flexures, overturn ings and fractures. 



2. Its detached position in small separate residuary basins 

 caused by erosion and entire loss of the adjacent anticlinals, thus 

 forbidding the permanent application of the large amount of 

 capital required to exhaust such small separate areas. 



3. The thinness of many of the beds, which do not, and never 

 can admit of mining by any process of extraction, without removing 

 more rock than coal. 



Nothing need be said of mere depth, since the article being one 

 of prime necessity, as it becomes scarcer it will be mined at all 

 depths, the increased cost being compensated by advanced price. 

 In England there is no doubt that if the "South Eastern bed" 

 shall be satisfactorily verified, it will be immediately mined though 

 its most ardent advocates give it a minimum depth of 3000 feet. 



Nevertheless it is evident that large deductions must be made 

 from the area of the carboniferous measures as these are known to 

 geologists and adopted in the Census reports, before even an 

 approximate knowledge can be reached of the extent of actual coal 

 beds, adapted, as respects separate area and thickness, to supply 

 remunerative coal at this or any future period. How large such 

 deductions should be, we possess at present insufficient data for 

 computing with accuracy, but from the general observations now 

 possible to make, and from the well known tendency of many 

 property owners to exaggerate the resources and value of their pos- 

 sessions whether in reports to Census ofiicials or miscellaneous 

 observers, we may be sure they must be sufficiently large to effect a 

 very material reduction of the general area of the measures, before 

 arriving at the actual area of mineable coal. 



It would therefore seem quite a liberal estimate if such reductions 

 were offset against the following items not included in the Census 

 report, viz : 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



1. The detached basins of the Rocky Mountain region, chiefly 

 of 2)ost carboniferous date, which, though occurring over an exten- 

 sive territory, are mostly thin, small, widely separated, and often of 

 indifferent quality. 



2. The inaccessible and inconsiderable coal of the Arctic and 

 tropical regions. 



3. The relatively small beds of Nova Scotia and British 

 Columbia. 



After allowing such set off, and accepting the Census statement of 

 the remaining carboniferous area as equivalent to a veritable area 

 of mineable coal, we should have the latter fixed for the entire con- 

 tinent of North America at 219,080 square miles, which most 

 practical geologists will probably only consent to accept with grave 

 doubt, especially as no less authority than Professor Dana calcu- 

 lates the extent of the coal bearing area of the carboniferous measures 

 exposed in the United States at 190,000 square miles, of which only 

 120,000 have workable beds of coal; and for the whole of North 

 America at 208,000.* It is not desired to intrude here too much 

 individual opinion, but after enjoying considerable opportunity of 

 personal observation of the great coal ; fields of the United States, 

 Nova Scotia and British Columbia, I do not myself believe that the 

 entire carboniferous exposures in North America contain 150,000 

 square miles of actual coal beds, including all qualities and thick- 

 nesses. Nevertheless it should be remarked in this connection, that 

 though no out-crops or other of the usual external indications have 

 been found, it is possible — though scarcely probable — that some of 

 the upper beds of the carboniferous series extending westerly from 

 the theatre of its greatest development, may uuderlie the rocks of 

 later horizon constituting the great western plains. But it is well 

 known that the lower members of the true coal measures thin out 

 and disappear in going west from Pennsylvania, until in the first 

 tier of States west of the Mississippi, only the highest beds in 

 general remain, and if these should continue to decline toward the 

 west in any such proportion as they do east of the great river, they 

 must entirely disappear long before reaching the territory occupied 

 by the cretaceous and later beds of the Rocky Mountain district. 



Of this assumed continental area of 219,080 square miles of coal 

 bearing territory, the available data for calculating the average 

 thickness with precision is as yet extremely imperfect. The rocks of 



*Manual of Geology, pp. 293. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



the coal measures proper, excluding the lower or ]\Iillstoiie grit 

 section (generally known in Pennsylvania simply as " the con- 

 glomerate"), have an aggregate thickness "varying from 100 to 

 1000 feet in the Interior coal areas, to 4000 feet where greatest in 

 Pennsylvania, and over 8000 feet in Nova Scotia.f 



The general tendency both of the measures and the interstratified 

 coal seams, is to thin off from N. E. to S. W. across the entire terri- 

 tory of the United States, the lower or largest beds gradually dis- 

 appearing, until in Texas only the top or latest member of the 

 series is present, showing both at the Gordon and the Strawn mines, 

 a maximum thickness of but twenty-two inches. General sections 

 everywhere show thick beds of conglomerates, sand and sometimes 

 limestones, and slaty shales with comparatively thin seams of coal. 

 An extremely favorable section from AVestern Pennsylvania, taken 

 from Lesley by the last quoted authority, shows in 810 feet of aggregate 

 thickness, a total thickness of coal amounting to 25 feet in eight seams 

 or beds, of which but two, one of six, the other of eight feet, are 

 workable. While every proportion exists between the thickness of 

 the measures and that of the contained coal, as well as between the 

 coal seams themselves, the above is a fairly illustrative section from 

 the best carboniferous field in the United States except the anthra- 

 cite, which in the most valuable portions of the field probably 

 averages a greater richness. The coal seams themselves though fre- 

 quently extending continuously and perfectly identified for miles, 

 vary in thickness from an extreme maximum of thirty feet to noth- 

 ing, even the largest often thinning out over long distances to a 

 meagre layer of carboniferous slate or dirt. In the Lykens Valley 

 Coal Company's operations, for instance, in the lower or Lykens bed 

 at Short Mountain, an extensive and hitherto reliable seam of ten 

 feet, suddenly " pinched " out to such a trace, and was followed 

 through the rock at heavy cost of time and money for over 6000 

 feet, before it resumed sufficient thickness for mining. These exces- 

 sive and sudden eccentricities in thickness and value, though occur- 

 ring to some extent throughout all the coal fields, abound especially 

 in the anthracite district of Pennsylvania, that being eminently the 

 region of contortions, faults, foldings and disturbances, which in fact 

 accompanied or caused the metamorphism by which coal of ordinary 

 volatility, was refined into anthracite. The general continuity and 

 identity of coal seams, accompanied by frequent changes in thick- 



t Ibid. pp. 3U9. 




8Q PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ness aud value, is what might have been antecedently expected as 

 soon as the geological history of coal became certainly known. At 

 the time of the coal deposits neither the Allegheny nor the Rocky 

 Mountains existed. South and west of the Green Mountains of 

 Vermont the continental area was flat and low and being without 

 adequate drainage constituted here a vast swamp, there a succession 

 of small morasses, constantly enduring slow and slight changes of 

 elevation ; now for a time and in places sufficiently above water to 

 permit the growth of the redundant flora incident to such condi- 

 tions, then suflEiciently below to destroy vegetable life and cover its 

 remains with deposits of sand of varying thickness, sometimes in fresh, 

 sometimes in sea water. In some places ages elapsed before another 

 emergence made renewed vegetable growth possible, in others sub- 

 sidences and emergences succeeded each other with comparative 

 rapidity, as now evinced by the respective thickness of the carbon- 

 aceous beds and the intervening sandstones, as well as by the succes- 

 sion of fossil species of plants and animals. 



Thus the secular succession and separation of the coal seams, and 

 the large proportion of those whose thinness deprives them of 

 economic value is intelligibly explained by the then condition of 

 land and water over this area, and the repeated though slow and 

 slight changes in their relative level, while the destruction of a 

 large part of such seams as were once valuable has been plainly 

 due first to the extensive aud violent disturbance of which the con- 

 dition of the beds themselves supplies ample evidence, and next to 

 more recent erosion on a stupendous scale. 



It is unnecessary to dilate upon these elementary and well-known 

 circumstances, because they have been for a long time very com- 

 pletely established and are fully set forth in all standard Avorks on 

 the subject, but so much seemed essential to remind the reader of 

 the causes of the preponderance of thin and worthless seams, of the 

 great irregularity both in thickness and condition of the compara- 

 tively few workable ones, the injury and even ruin sustained by 

 many, and finally of the tremendous destruction aud loss by 

 erosion. 



While there is a large amount of detached information available 

 respecting the number and dimensions of workable seams at various 

 points, there has been no such systematic collation of them as may 

 serve for any precise generalization susceptible of proof, nor is it 

 probable that such will be possible for some years to come. Never- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



theless by comparing the best verified of these, with personal obser- 

 vation and the result of individual inquiries, one may venture upon 

 an approximation subject to correction as time goes on and precise 

 information becomes more abundant and available. If the problem 

 were presented to practical American geologists, supposing the 

 valuable coal remaining in all workable seams weie distributed in 

 a single bed of uniform thickness extending over the entire area, 

 not of coal, but of the carboniferous measures, assumed at 219,080 

 square miles, what thickness should be assigned to it?, their reply 

 must, as has been seen, be largely hypothetical. Yet being based 

 on the several sources of information above referred to, it would 

 possess value as the opinion of a large body of close and intelligent 

 observers who have given careful observation and study to the sub- 

 ject as the most interesting of their lives. 



It is the belief of the present writer that the majority of such 

 observers would assign a thickness considerably less than six feet. 

 But assuming six feet to be an admissible working estimate, and 

 assuming the received quantity of 800 tons of 2240 lbs. each, 

 (about 42 per cent.), as that which is on the average mineable per 

 level acre per foot of thickness, we should then by a simple 

 arithmetical process get the following, viz: 219,080 square miles 

 equal to 140,211,200 acres, multiplied by 6 feet (of thickness) and 

 by 800, being the available tonnage, per foot of thickness from each 

 acre, would give the tonnage, which is 673,013 millions of tons. 



The same Census report states the production (and therefore the 

 consumption) during the year 1889, at 141,229,513 short tons of 

 2000 lbs. each, which is equivalent to 126,097,779 long tons of 2240 

 lbs. each, and further states the increase of consumption to have 

 been at the rate of 97.57, or in round numbers 100 per cent, per 

 decade. 



This rate of known actual increase applied to the present annual 

 consumption for thirty years, then reduced to fifty per cent, per 

 decade for the next forty years, and further reduced to thirty-three 

 and a third per cent, per decade for another forty-two yearcs, would 

 indicate the entire consumption of every accessible ton at the end 

 of 112 years from the year reported on, or say by A. D. 2001. 



Of course the above is a broad generalization of results which 

 will probably be reached about the same time but in a different 

 manner. It is prol)able the rate of annual increase of consumption 

 would during the first half of the period show a much more rapid 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



acceleration, owing to the increase of population, to exportation, 

 and to the constant new applications of steam power to old and 

 new purposes, and that during the last half of the period it would 

 decline more irregularly, and upon the whole more quickly, in con- 

 sequence of the completed exhaustion of the more densely popu- 

 lated coal fields, the increased transportation required to distribute 

 the fuel from the more distant ones, and the consequent growing 

 scarcity and higher prices. But take any reasonable rate of 

 increase we may, based on even a partial continuation of existing 

 facts, and distribute it how we may over the century, and the 

 general result will be about the same, viz : practical exhaustion in 

 little more than three generations. 



To such minds as may incline to the acceptance of these conclu- 

 sions as a fair deduction from facts some of which are known and 

 others derived from cautious and reasonable estimates, but of which 

 only a portion are at present susceptible of proof, it will be at once 

 apparent that certain consequences, both economic and physical, 

 must ensue of the very highest importance to the human race and 

 to all animal life : since the latter, except as regards the domesti- 

 cated and protected species, tends to increase or decline in inverse 

 proportion to that of man, the universal enemy. The former class 

 of consequences belongs rather to the province of the statesmen and 

 the publicist, though it may be pertinent to refer in passing to the 

 general popular conviction with which such reflections are often 

 brushed aside, i. e. that some new " force " or " power " of Nature is 

 likely to be discovered and harnessed into human service long 

 before the happening of an event that is admitted to be at least a 

 century distant. 



But if on examination it be found that there exists no intelligent 

 ground for such expectation, then, however agreeable and consola- 

 tory, it must be taken as mere 02:)timism, ready to find ease in any 

 baseless and visionary possibility rather than face a fact which as 

 all see, must sooner or later deprive our race of its most useful and 

 effective asset, and materially change all the conditions of civiliza- 

 tion, including its capacity to sustain population. 



Now on attempting any such examination almost the first cir- 

 cumstance to be noted is, that as no new or previously unknown 

 "force " has ever yet been discovered, it is very improbable, — if not 

 demonstrably impossible — that any such force can exist in Nature 

 without evidence of its presence. The existence and potentialities 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



of all known forces of the kind such as steam and electricity, were 

 never concealed and have always been known since the first pot 

 was boiled or the first savage was struck by lightning. 



What has been discovered is not those, or any other " forces," if 

 we must continue to call them so, but practical and useful methods 

 of eliminating and applying them to our work; and down to this 

 present time that can only be accomplished by the combustion of 

 fuel, without Avhich we know of no way to produce any of them, on 

 a large and useful scale, and at times and places where they are 

 required. 



On the contrary there are certain weighty reasons for believing 

 that there can be no considerable unknown power lying concealed 

 anywhere in Nature. For any such power must be either useful or 

 useless in carrying on Nature's operations. If the latter, it must 

 long since have ceased to exist, for nothing that is useless 

 long survives without human protection. But if useful, then 

 it must be an active and perturbing agent, exerting a useful and 

 necessary function of some kind in Nature's laboratory and work- 

 shop. But while we can account for,' explain and even predict, all 

 great natural phenomena from the smallest chemical reaction to 

 the most stupendous electrical, astronomical and meteorological 

 events, and can even calculate the movements of our earth and all 

 astronomical bodies, tracing every perturbation or eccentricity to its 

 cause, there is no evidence of the function or action of any mysteri- 

 ous or unknown force, no concealed perturber whose mysterious 

 existence and action disturbs our calculations and frustrates our 

 predictions. Then none exists ; and all that is left for us to con- 

 sider is how to reduce to our service those forces that are known, 

 without the use of fuel or artificial heat. Steam and decomposed 

 water must be banished from the available category, for both are 

 simply results of heat, of which, by terms of the supposition, there 

 would remain no useful supply except as it was obtained by the 

 first brain-developed anthrojioids, directly from the sun. 



There remains for consideration electricity, Avhich may be 

 obtained in minute quantity from chemical reactions, but its pro- 

 duction on a useful scale by such methods, is at present inconceiv- 

 able, unless by the prior production and handling of such vast 

 masses of expensive material as to rob the result of all economic 

 value, 



7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



It is even probable that the eftective power obtainable from the 

 gravitation of water, is not so great as is often assigned it, even in 

 the most favorable climates. The area of Pennsylvania is 45,000 

 square miles, or 28,800,000 acres, and the extremes of precipitation 

 on its eastern and western parts may be averaged at 39 inches, of 

 which at least one-fourth, or ten inches, is lost by evaporation. 

 The entire amount of its rainfall would therefore amount to 31,- 

 449,600,000,000 gallons per year, or an average of 86,163,287,671 

 gallons per day. Hence by the received formula Q = 62.15 A 

 [f R — E], where Q, is the daily supply in gallons, A is the catch- 

 ment area in acres, R is the average annual rainfall, and E the loss 

 by evaporation, both in inches,* is obtained the collectible quantity 

 iu Pennsylvania, viz : 41,526,144,000 gallons per day. Assuming 

 that one-half of that quantity reaches the surface at a useful height 

 above sea level and could be all converted into effective power with 

 an average head of 150 feet, the total available power expressed in 

 horse powers would be 524,320 HP per day, being equal to the 

 power obtained by the combustion per year of 3,075,698 tons of 

 coal of 2240 lbs. each, which is probably less than one-tenth of the 

 tonnage actually required and consumed in Pennsylvania to-day. 



There are, however, certain conceivable physical results that may 

 and to some extent must follow the combustion and dispersion 

 in the atmosphere of all the carbon now fixed in a form available 

 for fuel, which, though perhaps not at present fully computable, are 

 of the very highest consequence. It may be safely assumed that 

 such carbon, as well as that which is fixed in the calcareous or 

 other carbonates, was for the most part so fixed long after the earth 

 had condensed to its present form and dimensions and had cooled 

 sufficiently to acquire a stable crust. Before that time the greater 

 part or all of such carbon had existed in atmospheric suspension 

 and whenever these compounds shall be resolved it must return to 

 and remain in the atmosphere, until again fixed by the slow and 

 gradual medium of chemical reaction in one case and the opera- 

 tions of vegetable life in the other. Since, however, our present 

 concern is with the coal, the end of which, however more or less 

 remote, we can with certainty foresee, let us endeavor to calculate, 

 though W'ith much necessary recourse to hypothesis, whether any 

 appreciable eflfect on the atmosphere and on animal life is likely to 



* Theory and Practice of Hydro-Mechanics, Inst. C. E. p. 44, cited in Ency. 

 J3rit., article " Water Supply." 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



follow the return to the atmosphere of the carbonaceous constitu- 

 ents of all accessible coal now and for ages past safely contained in 

 the storehouse of the earth. The composition and weight of the 

 existing atmosphere as well as of coal being well known, the first 

 step necessary for such a calculation is to get a world-wide esti- 

 mate of the quantity of such accessible coal. 



Sir Charles Lyell and the early geologists at first supposed that 

 the enormous geological destructions and reconstructions of which 

 they observed the evidences everywhere on the land surfaces of the 

 globe, had equally affected all surfaces, involving the subsidence of 

 continents and the corresponding elevation of sea bottoms, in 

 short a wide and perhaps universal and repeated interchange of 

 continental and oceanic areas. But it has now long been known 

 and in fact proved by the researches of the Challenger expedition 

 and other investigations, that those early views Avere erroneous, and 

 that notwithstanding the repeated changes of height and level 

 everywhere and at all times prevailing over and throughout all 

 laud surfaces, the existing proportions between land and ocean 

 areas have in the main always been maintained at least outside the 

 depth line of 1000 fathoms. The evidence of this important fact is 

 abundant and conclusive, but as it has recently been lucidly summed 

 up in the latest work of Mr. A. R. Wallace,* it need not be repeated 

 here. 



Accepting these better modern views, it is clear that under the 

 main portions of the ocean, neither derivative rocks nor fossil vege- 

 tation are to be looked for, and cannot exist in appreciable quan- 

 tity. But the area of the entire land surface of the earth with its 

 included waters, bears to the entire oceanic area the proportion of 

 28 to 72, according to the careful computations of Mr. John 

 Murray, cited and approved by Wallace, a jiroportion which, as 

 shown by Mr. Wallace's map of the 1000 fathom line, would not be 

 materially modified if the littoral portion of the sea bottom lying 

 inside that line should be tranferred from the oceanic to the land 

 area. 



Now since, as before observed, we possess accurate knowledge 

 both of the constituency of the atmosphere as now existing, and 

 also its weight both as a whole and per square foot of the earth's 

 surface, we only require to know the quantity of coal existing on 28 

 per cent, of the earth's surface to compute the quantity of carbon 



* Darwinism, pp. 341-349. 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



originally taken by it chiefly from the atmosphere, and conversely, 

 the quantity that will be returned to the atmosphere on the com- 

 bustion of such coal, making a reasonable allowance in the last case 

 for such portion of the coal as is inaccessible to man and can there- 

 fore never be consumed through his agency. 



The following computations bearing on this point and graduated 

 to meet several different estimates of quantity, have been made with 

 the assistance of Mr. B. C. Tilghmau, an accomplished young 

 chemist of experience and capacity and a member of this Academy. 



The oxygen of the atmosphere, 23 per cent, by weight (or about 

 21 per cent by volume), if all burned into carbonic acid would pro- 

 duce 682'56 lbs. per square foot of earth surface. This would cor- 

 respond to a weight of 185"76 lbs. of carbon in suspension per 

 square foot of earth surface, and at a specific gravity of 95 lbs. per 

 cubic foot (the average for anthracite) would correspond to a 

 stratum of carbon 23"45 inches thick over the entire earth surface or 

 to 83'71 inches thick on the land surface, assumed at 28 per cent, 

 of the wliole. With the aid of Mr. Tilghmau the following tabular 

 statement has been constructed from these data, which are repeated 

 in its first horizontal line. 



II 



III 



IV 



VI 



Percent age|We i gh t of Weight ofjPercent age'Thickness of Thickness of 



stratum of stratum of 



The first horizontal line of the table represents, merely as a basis, 

 the theoretical results of a total absorption of all free oxygen by 

 carbonization, for which, however, all the available accumulations 

 of carbon that we know of are of course inadequate; for the 

 return to the atmosphere of the carbonic acid formerly subtracted 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



from it and now fixed in such carbonates as limestones, marbles, 

 chalks and corals, cannot be looked for without the recurrence of 

 such intense heat as there is no longer reason to expect, while on 

 the contrary, the secular diminution of both solar and internal heat 

 must tend to increase rather than diminish the stability of those 

 compounds. 



But the lower horizontal lines of the table, or some condition 

 intermediate between them, approximate so nearly to the actual 

 quantity of existing and available carbon accumulations assumed 

 in column VI, that on the entire combustion of such accumulations 

 nothing less can be looked for than the atmospheric modifications 

 indicated in the preceding columns. The last line for instance, 

 show^s that assuming all the mineable coal of the earth to equal one 

 stratum of "SSTl of one inch uniform thickness covering the entire 

 land surface (this being taken at 28 per cent, of the whole) its com- 

 bustion would abstract one per cent, from the existing twenty-three 

 per cent, of all atmospheric oxygen and add 'SIS of one per cent, 

 of its present weight to the atmosphere in carbon dioxide. 



We are not without means of verifying to some extent this 

 assumed thickness of the supposed universal stratum of carbon. In 

 North America we have seen that the total computed quantity 

 available is 673,013 million tons, a quantity which, if equally 

 diffused over the North American continental area of 7,400,000 

 square miles, would give a uniform thickness of '924 of one inch. 

 Since the conditions of the carboniferous period have at one time or 

 other been common throughout all parts of the land surface of the 

 globe as proved by the universal diffusion under similar conditions 

 of coal or fossil vegetation, it would not seem a violent assumption 

 to suppose that when we shall be as well acquainted with the other 

 parts of the world as we now are with North America, it will be 

 found that coal is not on the whole very unequally distributed, and 

 that the tolerably well ascertained fact of the equivalent stratum 

 for North America approximating an inch in thickness, will not be 

 found materially different in other parts of the earth's land surface, 

 and may at least be taken at •8371 of an inch as indicated in the 

 lowest line of the tabular statement, with all the other facts stated 

 in the same line as appurtenant. 



But just as the original abstraction of carbonic acid from the air 

 by the carboniferous vegetation has certainly once modified to some 

 extent or other all then existing life and rendered possible the 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



evolution of higher forms, so the convei'se process, though to a less 

 extent — since all coal is not accessible to the destructive power of 

 man — must tend to restore the atmosphere to its precarboniferous 

 condition and to some extent, however minute, impair or restrict its 

 capacity for sustaining the higher forms of animal life as now 

 constituted. 



The data and proportions supplied in the table may of course be 

 applied to such assumption of absolute quantities as may best satisfy 

 individual minds. But its proportions are correct, and on any 

 supposition it furnishes proof that some amount of deleterious 

 influence must be exerted on the atmosphere, and therefore on the 

 physical constitution and qualities of all air breathing animals and 

 especially on the higher forms, which, being most specialized, are the 

 least adaptable. 



If it be objected that it is not to be accepted without specific 

 proof that all of this carbon dioxide was at any one time in atmos- 

 pheric suspension, then we have to suppose some agency of constant 

 and steady supply during the enormous vegetable demand of the 

 prolonged carboniferous period. This agency could only have 

 been a vast and long continued amount of internal heat either dif- 

 fused by steam, or occurring sufficiently near the surface to permit 

 egress. Such heat would have been necessary to expel it from the 

 carbonates in which it had been previously fixed, and must have 

 been at the same time sufficiently intense to fuse and decompose 

 limestone, and yet of a character consistent with the most profuse 

 vegetable growth that has at any period occurred on the earth. 



Nevertheless the suggestion is not beyond the bounds of possi- 

 bility. Large quantities of carbon dioxide have always been, and 

 now are being constantly emitted from the deep recesses of the 

 earth's mass and constitute an essential part of the existing con- 

 ditions of respiration ; and it may be conceded that such dissolution 

 of carbonates and evolution of carbon dioxide may have prevailed 

 to a greater extent than at present before the earth's crust had 

 cooled at all points to present temperatures, and may have aided the 

 supply furnished from the atmosphere. But that the process was 

 sufficient of itself to account for the great quantities that were fixed 

 in the coal beds during the carboniferous period is not credible, be- 

 cause not supported either by the comparative absence of such pro- 

 cess before and after that period, or by such amount of evidence as 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 95 



in that case should have left its traces everywhere among all acces- 

 sible metamorphosed rocks. 



It has been suggested that such future accession of carbonic acid 

 to the atmosphere diffused over a century or more, may be met and 

 counteracted by the consequent increased activity of tropical and 

 other vegetation. There is no doubt that as long as the earth con- 

 tinues otherwise fitted to sustain life, we may confidently exjDect 

 that in the future as in the past, new creatures will be evolved to 

 meet new physical conditions. But there is reason to believe that 

 vegetation, composed as it is of all existing individuals, has fully 

 adapted itself to present conditions including the actual quantity of 

 carbon dioxide heretofore and noAV being supplied from its own 

 dissolution and decay, and from such sources of natural supply as 

 the breath of animals, forest, prairie and accidental fires, volcanic 

 combustion, subterranean decomposition and others of the kind. 

 The amount of heat and moisture, the principal conditions of vege- 

 table life, is more likely to decline with the slow diminution of solar 

 vigor than to increase, and there is no reason for supposing that the 

 present rate of vegetable growth is in any degree limited or 

 restricted by the want of carbonic acid. If then the quantity, 

 already sufficient, continues to be daily augmented by the ever 

 increasing artificial combustion of coal, its entire absorption by 

 vegetation would require a new and distinct modification in vege- 

 table life. But any such adaptation must proceed in accordance 

 with fixed laws, which never halt or vary to save individuals or 

 species. On the contrary, their inexorable march even toward 

 higher forms involves the remorseless extinction not only of indi- 

 viduals but of whole species, genera and orders, an evolutionary 

 process which would doubtless have kept even pace with the slow 

 nattira I changes of environment, but hardly with the active inter- 

 ference of human intelligence possessing designs of its own in no 

 manner subordinated to the slow and gradual processes of natural 

 development. 



Similar considerations apply to the probable eflfect on animal life 

 of any considerable relative displacement of oxygen from the 

 atmosphere. We know that any — even the smallest — relative 

 increase of carbonic acid is injurious to the life-sustaining quality of 

 air, not necessarily on account of any actively poisonous qualities 

 of its own, but by its displacement or dilution of oxygen, and that 

 an atmosphere containing but eighteen per cent, by weight of 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



oxygen, is incapable of supporting combustion and closely assails 

 the limits of mammalian life. 



If an animal possessing a given extent of lung surface and pas- 

 sages must, as now constituted, transmit through those passages 100 

 Tbs. of air to obtain the necessary 23 lbs. of oxygen, then if some 

 appreciable quantity, say for example, one per cent, by weight of 

 CO., be added to the atmosphere, the animal must pass through its 

 organs 101 lbs. of air to obtain the same reparatory result, and so 

 on, in similar proportion, and this result will be accelerated if such 

 addition of carbon dioxide be accompanied by the positive abstrac- 

 tion of oxygen as in the case of the combustion of fixed carbon. 

 But under the continuing effects of diminishing oxygen and increas- 

 ing carbon dioxide, there must come a time when the growing 

 atmospheric modification can no longer be met by adaptation of 

 individuals, but only by a permanent increase of the rapidity of 

 respiration, or an established enlargement of the respiratory organs ; 

 and an animal materially and permanently changed in either 

 respect would amount to a new form, adapted to the new conditions 

 but unable to exist in the old, and only producible by the extinc- 

 tion of existing species no longer fit, and the evolution of favorable 

 variations into new species. 



Hence if it seems probable that existing types of vegetation could 

 only absorb materially increased quantities of carbon by developing 

 specific and generic changes, we may with still more confidence con- 

 clude that animals adapted to prevailing atmospheric conditions, 

 can only acquire the necessary modifications of their respiratory 

 and associated organs by means equally radical. As the principal 

 air-breathing forms, including most reptiles and all birds and mam- 

 mals, slowly succeeded the atmospheric changes of the carbon-fixing 

 period, so under the influence of converse modifications it seems 

 justly inferable that they being the most specialized and least 

 adaptable as individuals, must in turn give place to specific substi- 

 tutions. 



Of course the extent of modification in cellular surface or rapidity 

 of respiration to which existing forms can adapt themselves without 

 such specific destruction and substitution, must chiefly be learned 

 from actual experiments by competent hygienists. 



But whatever may be the value of such speculations upon 

 ultimate consequences, it is certain that with the large and con- 

 stantly, accelerating increase in the annual rate of production and 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



•consumption of coal, and the growth of population stimulated by its 

 use, it must soon be carefully sought for in every accessible quarter 

 of the world ; and it cannot be many years before such information 

 will be possessed as may enable us to dispense with most of the 

 hypotheses now required, and bring the entire subject of its quantity 

 and duration more or less within the limits of exact computation. 



The present object of this paper scarcely aims at more than the 

 hastening of such researches, and quickening the interest of more 

 competent analysts and naturalists. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



THE BIRDS OF SOUTHEASTEEN TEXAS AND SOUTHERN ARIZONA 

 OBSERVED DURING MAY, JUNE AND JULY, 1891. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



With the idea of investigating the avifauna of the southern border 

 of the United States, and collecting a series of the birds of Florida, 

 Texas and Arizona/ I left Philadelphia March 26th, 1891, arriving 

 at Jacksonville, Florida, on the fifth of the following month. A 

 sojourn of five weeks was made in the southwestern part of the state 

 and considerable collections obtained. Few facts additional to what 

 has been already written on the bird life of this region were ascer- 

 tained, and it is not my intention to treat in detail of this part of the 

 trip. 



I arrived at Corpus Christi, Texas, May 17th, and here a three 

 weeks' stay was made. I then journeyed westward to Tucson, 

 Arizona, arriving on the tenth of June, and collecting birds 

 in the immediate vicinity until the nineteenth. That morning I 

 took stage for Oracle, a post-hamlet situated in the oak belt forty 

 miles northward, among the foot-hills of the Catalina Mountains. 

 Collecting was carried on in that vicinity until July 2nd, when the 

 mountains were ascended, and I took up my abode for a week in a 

 lumber camp among the pines of Mt. Lemon at an elevation of 

 between 7000 and 8000 ft. and about 2000 feet below the summit of 

 that mountain. 



The birds of southern Texas,' especially those in the vicinity of 

 Corpus Christi, have received no small amount of attention from 

 naturalists. Mr. Beckham enumerates eight publications bearing 

 directly on this subject, prior to his own, Avhich appeared in 1887.' 

 Within a few months ^Ir. Chapman has published a paper^ giving the 

 results of his observations made on exactly the same ground which I 

 covered three weeks later. In fact, I was conducted by Mr. Priour, 

 who acted as my guide, to the same collecting grounds in the imme- 

 diate vicinity of Corpus Christi and along the Nueces River and 



^ Mr. Rhoads has generously presented his entire collection, numbering 

 about one thousand skins to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 The Texas series numbers 267 specimens and the Arizona collection 398. Owing 

 to Mr. Rhoads' absence from Philadelphia when preparing this paper, he was un- 

 able to make a critical examination of the specimens, and at his request I have 

 added notes on such as exhibited any peculiarities ; these annotations are followed 

 by my initials. — Witmer Stone. 



2 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. Vol. 10, p. 683. 



3 Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist. Vol. Ill, No. 3. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHEA. 99 



Bay, which he had previously visited with INIr. Chapman. The in- 

 terval between our visits, however, gave opportunity for a decided 

 readjustment of the bird fauna, due to migration and the nesting of 

 resident species. 



Mr. Beckham's personal observations of Texan birds terminated 

 in March, and so far as I can discover, very few, if any, of our ob- 

 servers have recorded data relating to the early summer birds of 

 the Corpus Christi region; Dresser's "summer" notes relating 

 chiefly to the vicinity of San Antonio. 



Further description of the region included in the following notes 

 would be superfluous after all that the aforementioned authors have 

 written on the subject. Before proceeding with the annotated list, 

 hoAvever, the following observations may be made. 



Though nearly all the non-resideut birds had passed through, and 

 a drouth existed, quite equal in severity to that prevailing during 

 Mr. Beckman's stay, my experience agrees with that of IMr. Chap- 

 man — birds were abundant everywhere. Nearly half of the birds 

 observed were feeding their young before my departure, and in 

 many cases the full-fledged young were procured. This rendered 

 all the more conspicuous the fact that many boreal species, espe- 

 cially among the water birds, still lingered. I received corroboration 

 in various Avays that the annual over-stepping of faunal limits by 

 many species belonging to a more southerly district, and their sub- 

 sequent disappearance toward the end of the spring migration, is a 

 marked feature at Corpus Christi. These birds undoubtedly return 

 in due time to their ancestral haunts in Mexico ere the breeding 

 season begins. To what extent this movement, due undoubtedly to 

 the sexual excitability and ignorance of the country exhibited by 

 birds of the first year, should be held to account for the "faunal in- 

 osculation " Avhich Beckham speaks of, I am unable t(» prove. 

 Fi'om all that may be proven by and inferred from the observations 

 of collectors in this region ten years ago, it seems that several 

 species are now represented in the avifauna of Corpus Christi 

 which were then strangers to it. 



Owing to the position of this territory, forming as it were the 

 keystone of three great faunal arches, eastern, western and south- 

 ern, where in time past the birds from their respective regions ap- 

 proached so nearly, that a slight change in physical or climatic con- 

 ditions would precipitate more intimate relations. Precisely such 

 a state of affairs has happened, and the intermingling of races and 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



species on new territory has become permanent. In seeking a cause 

 for this I am led to the belief that it is due chiefly to the introduc- 

 tion of cattle. When we remember that the growth of dense 

 mesquite chaparral, which now forms such a marked feature in the 

 landscape of southeastern Texas, and is steadily encroaching upon 

 the tithe of open prairie yet remaining, is directly due to the graz- 

 ing of immense herds of cattle which have, in their search for sub- 

 sistence, robbed the prairie fire of its fuel and at the same time dis- 

 tributed the seeds of mesquite and other arborescent shrubs, this 

 statement may not appear as paradoxical as it seems. The com- 

 paratively sudden conversion of many square miles of debatable 

 ornithological ground from prairie to brush-land in this manner, 

 would afford just such inducements to arboreal birds in the further 

 extension of their winter range from the north and their suTumer 

 range from the south as now exist. On the other hand, as the true 

 prairie lands diminish, the more strictly plain-haunting species 

 must disappear. A comparison of the relative abundance of the 

 species noted by Beckham as compared Avith the same observed this 

 year by Mr. Chapman and myself tends to prove this. Even in 

 1887, the date of Beckham's observations. Dr. Havard reports the 

 mesquite as " shrubby " and Beckham charactei'izes it as " a dreary 

 waste of cactus," etc. The growth of mesquite in the surrounding 

 country, even since then, will tally well with the faunal changes re- 

 corded, for it must be borne in mind that until, say seven years ago, 

 the overstocking of pasture with cattle and the consequent eftect 

 upon a previously superabundant pasturage did not aflTect the 

 country far from city limits ; so that beyond a comparatively small 

 area surrounding the city, the virgin prairie retained its original 

 features. For this reason birds were scarce, not so much because 

 of drouth, but for lack of shelter and food suited to those of arbo- 

 real habits. Many insectivorous birds are found breeding in locali- 

 ties where water is unobtainable save in the form of dew, and, owing 

 to the juicy nature of their food, they can most likely enjoy life indefi- 

 nitely wnthout the luxury of a drink. It seems therefore probable 

 that the late increase of passerine birds in this part of Texas is due, 

 not to an excess of rainfall, or to the absence of droughts in late 

 years, but to the vast extension of tree-covered areas into the 

 prairie and the increase of insect and vegetable fuod resulting from 

 this cause ; and these conditions apply not only to the increase of 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



individuals among old forms, but equally to the additional species 

 now ascribed to the Corpus Christi fauna. 



The subjoined list includes all birds observed by me ; those spe- 

 cies of which I did not obtain specimens being indicated by an 

 asterisk. I wish here to acknowledge my grateful indebtedness to 

 Mr. Witmer Stone, Conservator of the Ornithological Section of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, not only for receiving 

 and caring for the collection during my absence, but also for inval- 

 uable aid in the identification of the material and in revising my 

 notes. 



Texas. 



1. Larus atricilla Linn. Laughing Gull. 



Common, breeding abundantly about Corpus Christi Bay. Xearly 

 a third of those observed still retained the young, autumnal plumage 

 of last year. 



2. Larus franklinii Sw. & Rich. Fi-anklin's (iull. 



Five or six individuals of this exquisite gull were noted and one 

 male was taken on the first of June. The female which accom- 

 panied it escaped me. The presence of this species at so late a date 

 seems to corroborate Mr. Priour's assertion that a few remain to 

 breed. The fly-catching habits of Franklin's Gull are noteworthy. 

 I have seen a pair rise from a sand-bar, and proceeding directly 

 to the mainland, begin to beat the chaparral in a most systematic 

 manner for hours at a stretch, keeping meanwhile just out of 

 gunshot, and leisurely gathering, in company with Henry's Night- 

 hawk, the superabundant insect food which came in their way. 



3. Gelochelidon nilotica (Hasselq.). Gull-billed Tern. 



Breeding on the marshes but not common. 



*4. Sterna tschegrava Lejiech. Caspian Tern. 



Common, but not found breeding in Nueces Bay. 



5. Sterna forsteri Nutt. Forster's Tern. 



Most abundant of the genus, and like its northern congeners, the 

 first to proclaim and resent the presence of an intruder on its breed- 

 ing grounds. 



6. Sterna antillarum (Less.). Least Tern. 



It is surprising that no one has recorded the Least Tern in 

 Texas.' Priour assured me that before the destruction carried on a 



1 Merrill and SenneU found it breeding on sand-bars in the Rio Grande. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



few years ago, the " Striker," as he calls it, was abundant. I found 

 several skins of this species among some thousand millinery pelts 

 collected in this locality by Messrs. Fancher and Noakes of Corpus 

 Christi. On one occasion I noted a flock of a dozen flying near the 

 town, and I rarely went to the bay without seeing three or four. 

 From the action of these birds I judge they made their headquarters 

 further south and were breeding. 



7. Hydrochelidon nigra surinamensis (Gmel.). American Black Tern. 



Saw this bird only at the mouth of the Nueces River, where one 

 Avas secured, a full plumaged breeding male. Saw nearly a dozen 

 altogether, always singly. This species is also heretofore unre- 

 corded from the vicinity of Corpus Christi. 



8. Ehynchops nigra Linn. Black Skimmer. 



Abundant and breeding. 



9. Phalacrocorax mexicanus (Brandt). Mexican Cormorant. 



An immense flock of these birds was found sitting on the penin- 

 sular flats around the margin of an old pond. One individual shot 

 from this flock was a young male of the year. These birds had evi- 

 dently done breeding but just where they do breed, I was unable to 

 discover. 



10. Anas fulvigula maculosa (Senn.',. Mottled Duck. 



This is the commonest representative of its family on Xueces Bay 

 in June, where it breeds in the marshes. 

 *11. Spatula clypeata (Linn.). Shoveller. 



A few were observed at the mouth of the Nueces River. 



72. Ajaja ajaja (Linn.). Roseate Spoonbill. 



On the 28th of May, accompanied by Mr. Priour, I sailed down 

 to the mouth of the Nueces River in search of these birds. At a 

 distance of two miles a couple of large flocks could be descried as a 

 dull rosy streak along the water's edge. "We approached near 

 enough to make, with the aid of a glass, an excellent survey 

 of the flocks in the act of feeding before they noticed our pres- 

 ence. "When within about two hundred yards of them, the 

 whole company of four or five hundred individuals simultaneously 

 raised their heads and faced about. .On approaching some fifty 

 yards nearer, the sudden righting about just mentioned was suc- 

 ceeded by a most interesting series of manwuvres, consisting of a con- 

 traction and filling in of all the gaps in the line ; and just as this was 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



completed, with a rush of wiugs and a glorious burst of color, they 

 arose. Many other detachments joined them until the entire flock 

 numbered about six hundred. Most of these alighted some two 

 miles ofi", while a few returned to their former feeding ground. All 

 of these birds, including the young, were moulting. The adults 

 were just shedding their brilHant scarlet patches, and their skins 

 were bristling with pin feathers. Fully one-third were in the whit- 

 ish plumage of the first year. According to Mr. Priour the Spoon- 

 bill attains its maximum plumage development some time in Janu- 

 ary, but he was unable to state whether this was due to a second 

 moult in December, or whether there is merely a wearing away of 

 the tips of the feathers as in Agelaius and other birds. 



The Spoonbills now leave the vicinity of Corpus Christi the latter 

 part of February, and though a few stragglers sometimes remain all 

 the year, none have been known to breed on the Texas coast of late 

 years. This state of affairs is probably due to their persecution and 

 to the destruction of the forests between Corpus Christi and 

 Brownsville which used to reach nearer the river mouths, afford- 

 ing this formerly abundant species suitable rookery sites.' It 

 is probable that most of the flock of birds seen on Nueces Bay were 

 raised somewhere on the coast south of Brownsville. After raising 

 their young in comparative safety, they return yearly to this spot to 

 spend the summer and early winter months, arriving in considerable 

 numbers, even so early as the latter part of April, and attaining 

 their maximum numbers in the latter part of May. Their evident 

 attachment to the vicinity of Nueces Bay must be due to the facili- 

 ties it affords them in the great item of food supply, for the recep- 

 tion accorded these birds by Corpus Christi gunners is far from en- 

 couraging. 



13. Botaurus exilis(Gmel.). Least Bittern. 



How this bird could have been overlooked by former observers I 

 cannot conceive. Several were flushed in the marshes of Nueces 

 Bay and two were secured, one of them a female with distended 

 ovaries. 



*14. Ardea herodias Linn. Great Blue Heron. 



One seen. 

 *15. Ardea egretta Gmel. American Egret. 

 Three seen. 

 ^ Merrill and Sennet found a few in a lagoon heronry on the Rio Granle. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



®16. Ardea tricolor ruficollis (Gosse). Louisiana Heron. 



One of these birds was seen among the reeds at the mouth of the 

 Nueces River. 



*17. Ardea virescens Linn. Green Heron. 



Several seen. 

 *18. Nycticorax nycticorax naevius (Bodd.). Night Heron. 



Immense numbers of this species were found in the tall brake at 

 the J»[ueces River mouth. The flocks were composed of young and 

 old in every stage of plumage and had evidently resorted thither 

 from some distant rookery, as no signs of nests could be found in 

 the immediate vicinity. 



*19. Kallus elegans Aud. King Rail. 



A rail, presumably of this species, was flushed twice in the penin- 

 sular marsh near the city, but I failed to secure it. 



20. Recurvirostra americana Gmel. Ayocet. 



Pairs aud scattered individuals were seen throughout my stay. 

 Mr. Priour states they breed in the vicinity. 



21. Himantopus mexicanus (Miill.). Black-necked Stilt. 



This clamorous and uneasy bird breeds abundantly in suitable 

 places near Corpus Christi. Nests with eggs, but no young, were 

 found. 



22. Tringa maculata Vieill. Pectoral Sandpiper. 



Three seen, one of w^hich I secured. 



23. Tringa fuscicollis Vieill. AVhite-rumped Sandpiper. 



Nearly a dozen of these wary birds frequented the salt ponds on 

 the mainland shore of Nueces Bay. One was shot. This species 

 does not appear to have been observed here before. 



24. Ereunetes pusillus (Linn.) Semipalmated Sandpiper. 



Small flocks were frequently seen and several specimens secured. 



25. Totanus melanoleucus (Gmel.). Greater Yellow-legs. 

 A pair, evidently mated, w^ere shot. 



26. Symphemia semipalmata inornata Brewst. Western "Willet. 



Two specimens, probably referable to this race, were obtained. 

 Willets were breeding, in limited numbers, on the city flats. 



27. Numenius longirostris Wils. Long-billed Curlew. 



Three were noted. They seemed to have done breeding. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



28. Charadrius squatarola (Linn.). Blaek-bellied Plover. 



The abundance of this Plover, so late as the seventh of Jime, in 

 this neighborhood, is of interest. 



29. Aegialitis vocifera (Linn.). Kildeer. 

 Not abundant. 



30. Aegialitis semipalmata l^onap. Semipalmated Plover. 



One seen. 



31. Aegialitis wilsonia (Ord.). Wilson's Plover. 

 Breeding abundantly along the bay-side. 



32. Arenaria interpres (Linn.). Turnstone. 



My remarks on Charadrius s(piaiarola apply ■with equal force to 

 the Turnstone. 



33. Colinus virginianus texanus (Lawr.). Texan Bob- white. 

 Abundant. 



*34. Meleagris gallopavo Linn. Wild Turkey. 



Although I spent some time in the vicinity where Mr. Chapman 

 secured his specimens, and visited well known turkey-roosts at night, 

 I was unable to secure any of these birds. 



35. Zenaidura macroura (Linn.). Mourning Dove. 



Xowhere in the United States have I found this bird more abun- 

 dant than in Texas. A dozen to twenty nests could be found in 

 nearly every acre of chaparral, and frequently two nests would be 

 found in the same mesquite bush. 

 *36. Cathartes aura (Linn.). Turkej' Vulture. 



Abundant. 



"37. Catharista atrata (Bartr.). Black Vulture. 



Saw two. 

 *38. Parabuteo unicinctus harrisi (Aud.). Harris' Hawk. 

 The commonest species. 



*39. Buteo lineatus (Gmel.). Red-shouldered Hawk. 



Found up the Nueces River. 



■*"40. Falco sparverius Linn. Sparrow Hawk. 



Frequently seen. 



■41. Polyborus cheriway (.Jacq.). Audubon's Caracara. 



Comparatively abundant. 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



*42. Pandion haliaetus carolinensis (Gmel.). American Osprey. 



Seen on two occasions near Xueces Bay. 

 43. Syrnium nebulosum (Forst.). Barred Owl. 



On the night of my encampment on the upper Nueces, the pecu- 

 liar hooting of this owl indicated its abundance. 



44. Megascops asio mccallii (Ca.^s.). Texan Screech Owl. 



Wherever the timber, either in the form of upland " Mottes" or 

 riverside woodlands, was sufficiently heavy to afford a retreat, this 

 owl was well represented. 



45. Crotophaga sulcirostris Swains. Groove-billed Ani. 



A specimen was collected about ten miles west of Corpus by Mr. 

 Priour just previous to my visit. Another was seen on the second 

 of June near the same spot. 



46. Geococcyx californianus (Less.i. RoadRunner. 

 Breeding and common everywhere. 



47. Coccyzus americanus (Linn.). Yellow-billed Cuckoo. 

 Frequently found and breeding. 



»48. Ceryle alcyon (Linn.). Kingfisher. 

 Saw two. 



49. Dryobates scalaris bairdi iScl.). Baird's Woodpeck<;r. 

 Abundant but shy. 



50. Melanerpes aurifrons (Wagl.). Golden-fronted Woodijecker. 



About Corpus Christi this bird is as abundant as the Flicker is in 

 the east, and invariably builds in telegraph poles and high fence 

 posts. In less settled parts they are rare. 



51. Antrostomus carolinensis Kiiuel.). Chuck 'Will's Widow. 



A specimen was secured near Corpus Christi in April by Mr, 

 Priour. I heard none during my stay. 



52. Nyctidromus albicoUis merrilli (Senn.). Parauque. 



This Goatsucker was frequently heard throughout my stay, both 

 at Corpus Christi and around San Patricio. Its monotonous, whist- 

 ling "Avee-ooo," is generally uttered while the bird is perched on a 

 fence, though I have often traced it to the ground, both in the narrow 

 cow-paths of the chaparral and in open glades. A nest, containing a 

 single egg, nearly hatched, was found near San Patricio, on the first 

 of June. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



53. Chordeiles virginianus henryi (Cass.). AVestern Nighthawk. 



All the Nighthawks shot around Corpus Christi appear to belong 

 to this race. C. texensis finds its southwestern breeding limit 

 about midway between Corpus Christi and 8an Antonio ; during 

 the migrations, however, texensis has been noticed by Priour a few 

 miles west of Corpus Christi. 



"54. Chaetura pelagica ( Linn.). Chimnc}- Swiit. 



This species is another unaccountable omi.ssion from Beckham's 

 li.'St. Though not common, quite a number were seen. 



■55. Trochilus colubris Linn. Rubj'-throated Humming-bird, 



Three individuals seen. 



56. Milvulus forficatus ((imel.). Scissor-tail Flycatcher. 



Very common l)ut wary. These elegant birds moult in the sum- 

 mer, and by the first of June their bright colors are faded and the 

 tail-feathers threadbare. Out of a dozen specimens obtained, there 

 were no exceptions to this rule, though the breeding season had just 

 begun. The worn appearance of the tail is largely due to the nec- 

 essary switching of it in the devious pursuit of insect prey; but it 

 may also be attributed to the fact that the birds are somewhat ter- 

 restrial in tlieir habits, as I have observed them for hours gleaning 

 insects in the open pastures and salt fiats near Corpus Christi, 

 alighting without hesitation in the short grass to secure or devour 

 their food. I have also observed the males mounting and gyrating 

 together in the air after the manner of Kingbirds. 



57. Tyrannus tyrannus (Linn.). Kingbird. 



The only specimen of this species seen, was obtained near Corpus 

 Christi on May 30th. 



58. Myiarchus crinitus (Linn.). Crested Flycatcher. 



Two were noted, one of which was shot near the Xueces Kiver 

 bottoms, June sixth. Another specimen, shot at Corpus Christi 

 April 10th, was obtained from Mr. Priour.^ 



^ The latter specimen has a distinct dark band on the inner margin of the 

 quU of the outer tail feathers, about e |ual in width tu the entire outer web. East- 

 ern birds frequently have a narrow band on the outer webs of the rectrices but 

 I have never seen one quite so clearly marked as in the Texan example. The color 

 of the under surface of the borly in this specimen is, moreover, very dark, exceed- 

 ing the average of eastern specimens in this respect. In connection with the 

 Texan species of Myiarchus, a specimeu of M. ctneniscens in the Academy Col- 

 lection, from Laredo ("Colin. Dr. H. H. Butcher, Au„'. 17, 1866. 9 ") is of in- 

 ter st as being the most eastern record of this species that I have seen, except in 

 Prof. Cookes' " Bird Migration in the Mississippi Valley" where it is said on the 

 auhority of H. F. P<;ters, to be a summer resident at Bonham, titty miles north- 

 east of Dallas.— W. S. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



59. Myiarchus mexicanus (Kanp.). Mexican Crested Flycatcher. 



A pair of these birds had a nest and eggs near Priour's house. 



60. Contopus borealis (Swains.). Olive-sided Flycatcher. 



Two specimens were taken and about half a dozen seen. They 

 were noticed as late as June 3rd. 



61. Contopus v'.rens (Linn.). Wood Pewee. 



Common, and judging from its actions, a frequent breeder about 

 Corpus Christi. 



62. Pyrocephalus rubineus mexicanus (Sel.). Vermilion Flycatcher. 



The eastern limit for the occurrence of this species lies about 

 twenty miles west of Corpus Christi, in a country to all appearances 

 identical with that nearer the town. The Texan Cardinal (Pyrrhu- 

 loxi(i), a bird of very different habits, confines itself during the 

 breeding season to exactly the same limits, although it may be found 

 during the winter and up to the first of May, about Corpus Christi.' 



63. Otocoris alpestris giraudi Ilensh. Texan Horned Lark. 



Breeds commonly on the Corpus Christi flats. The song of this 

 species is very deceptive often seeming to come from the ground be- 

 fore you, while in fact the bird is high overhead. 



64. Molotlius ater obscurus (^Gmel.). Dwarf Cowbird. 



Xumerous everywhere. 



65. Agelaius pbceniceus (Linn,). Red-wing Blackbird. 



Breeding abundantly in the marshes around Nueces Bay. Owing 

 to the scarcity of water on the uplands this bird was rarely seen 

 there. 



66. Sturnella magna (Linn). Meadow Lark. 



Just as I was leaving Corpus Christi, a lark was brought to me in the 

 flesh, which undoubtedly belonged to the eastern race. I was unfor- 



1 As Mr. Chapman has remarked, the Texas and Arizona specimens of Pyro- 

 cephalus are smaller than those from farther south and have smaller bills. In point 

 of color there is considerable difference, as is shown in a good series of specimens. 

 I have already called attention (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil. 1890, p. 2(l8) to the 

 rosy orpmkish-redhue of Yucatan examples, as contrasted with the vermilion shade 

 of those from other localities. Indeed, this difference seemed so constant that I 

 was inclined to separate the former as a subspecies; an exam\nation, however, of 

 the material of the U. S. National Mu-eum, which was kindly loaned to me through 

 Mr. Robert Ridgway, shows that this idea was not supported. In the series of 

 twenty-nine Mexican and Central American specimens now before me, four Yucatan 

 specimens are pink, one is vermilion and one intermediate, while there is a bright 

 pink specimen from Jalapa. Two Honduras birds show patches of orange-yellow 

 on the breast. — W. S. 




1892.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



tunately unable to preserve it. I saw only three larks during my stay. 

 They frequented the meadows of the bay and were excessively wild. 

 I feel sure they were not neglecta, having on several occasions 

 heard their song which had the unmistakable quality of magna. 

 In this respect my experience corroborates that of Hancock whom 

 Beckham thinks mistaken. The true state of affairs is probably 

 that during winter the races intermingle, neglecta greatly predomi- 

 nating. Before the first of May ?te«5r^ecto decamps into the interior 

 to breed and a few of the true magna remain. 



67. Icterus spurius (Linn.). Orchard Oriole. 



A few pairs found breeding. 



68. Icterus galbula (Linn.). Baltimore Oriole. 



None seen. A specimen, shot a few days before my visit, is in the 

 collection. 



69. Icterus buUocki (Swains.). Bullock's Oriole. 



Several observed. Nest with young, June 2nd. 



*70. Quiscalus quiscula aeneus (Ridgw.). Bronzed Grackle. 



I observed this species industriously feeding its young along the 

 San Antonio River. None seen nor heard of at Corpus Christi. 



71. Quiscalus macrourus Swains. Great-tailed Grackle. 



While very numerous at Corpus Christi, this Grackle attained 

 a far greater abundance in the hack-berry mottes along the road to 

 San Patricio, about fifteen miles west of Corpus Christi. 



72. Ammodramus maritimus sennetti Allen. Texan Seaside Finch. 

 Found it common on the Nueces Bay flats. 



73. Chondestes grammacus (Say). Lark Sparrow. 



Breeding commonly. Fresh eggs and full-fledged young procured 

 the same day, May 30th. 



74. Peucaea cassini (Woodh.). Cassin's Finch. 



Several found breeding in open pasture a mile from Corpus 

 Christi. 

 ■■■■75. Melospiza fasciata ((imel.). Song Sparrow. 



A few of these were seen but none secured. 

 76. Embernagra rufivirgata Lawr. Texas Sparrow. 



As jNIr. Chapman remarks, this species does not seem to have been 

 recorded from north of the Rio Grande prior to his visit to Corpus 

 Christi, and I think it most probable that twelve years ago it was 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892, 



not a member of the fauna of this region. That it has become so 

 since is easily accounted for by the facts already stated regarding 

 the physical changes that have overspread the country, in recent 

 times. I found the Texas Sparrow thoroughly at home in the 

 Corpus Christi and San Patricio chaparral, and secured their nests 

 and fully fledged young.^ 



77. Cardinalis cardinalis canicaudus Chapm. Gray-tailed Cardinal. 



I secured a series of fourteen specimens of this newly described 

 race, including seven females and five males.^ 



78. Pyrrhuloxia sinuata Bonap. Texan Cardinal. 



Though common in the vicinity of the toAvn during winter and 

 early spring this species retires twenty miles westward to breed. 



79. Passerina ciris (Linn.). Painted Bunting, 



Breeding abundantly everywhere, 



80. Piranga rubra (Linn.). Summer Tanager, 



Not found at Corpus Christi but several were observed in the 

 heavy chaparral twenty miles west of it; also seen along the upper 

 Nueces. 



*81. Progne subis (Linn.). Puri>le Martin. 



Common in the vicinity of towns, 

 82. Petrochelidon lunifrons (Say). Cliff Swallow. 



Plentiful, in flocks. 

 *83. Chelidon erytbrogaster iBodd.). Barn Swallow. 



Common. Breeding. 

 84. Clivicola riparia (Linn.). Bank Swallow. 



Very abundant. 

 *85. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (And.). Rough-winged Swallow. 



Observed a few with the preceding species. 



*86. Lanius ludovicianus excubitorides (Swains.). White-rumped Shrike. 



Scarce. 



^ The young have the feathers of the head and interscapulum centered with 

 black and bordered with ochraceous. Beneath , the breast and flanks are tinged with 

 olivaceous and are marked with dark longitudinal markings ; bellv yeilowisli- 

 white.— W. .S. 



* Two young females have the bills entirely black, as is the tendency in the 

 young in this genus. There is a female specimen in the Academy's Collection 

 which agrees exactly with Mr. Rhoads" birds and which was collected by Captain 

 McCown at " Ringgold Barracks, Texas " in 1857. — W. S. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. HI 



87. Vireo olivaceus (Linn.). Red-eyed Vireo. 



A few were observed on the upper Nueces where thev breed. 



88. Vireo noveboracensis (Gmel.). White-eyed Vireo. 

 Common around Corpus Christi and elsewhere. 



89. Vireo bellii (Aud.). Bell's Vireo. 



Numerous, west of San Patricio where I found it breeding. 



90. Dendroica sestiva (Gmel.). Yellow Warbler. 



The only specimen observed was shot near Corpus Christi. 



91. Seiurus noveboracensis notabilis (Grinn.). Grinnell's Water Thrush. 

 One specimen was procured. 



92. Geothlypis tricbas (Linn.). Maryland Yellow-throat. 



A female shot was the only one certainly seen. Priour affirms 

 that it breeds at the mouth of Nueces Bay. 



93. Icteria virens (Linn.). Yellow-breasted Chat. 



Only one of these birds, a singing male, was found. Merrill aud 

 Sennett found it abundant at Fort Brown, a fact Avhich Beckham 

 ignores. Mr. Priour thinks it a very rare summer resident around 

 Corpus Christi.' 



94. Mimus polyglottos (Linn.). Mockingbird. 



Abundant breeder. 

 *95. Harporbyncbus longirostris sennetti Ridgw. Texas Thrasher. 



Several of these birds were observed and were evidently breeding 

 in the impenetrable chaparral near the town. I was unable to 

 secure any. 



96. Tbryothorus ludovicianus I Lath.). Carolina AVren. 



Only observed on the upper Nueces, where they are frequent and 

 had fledged young. 



97. Thryotborus bewickii bairdi (Salv. & Godm.). Baird's AVren. 

 Very numerous and prolific everywhere. 



98. Parus atricristatus Cass. Black-crested Titmouse. 



Several seen on the Nueces in large timber. 



99. Aariparus flaviceps (Sund.). Verdin. 



One specimen of the Verdin was secured. Although many of 

 their nests were found, the breeding season was over and the old 

 and young seemed to have left the country. 



1 This specimen seems intermediate in character, being quite as gray as the 

 average longicauda but is little different in size from typical virens. — W. S. 




112 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



100. Polioptila cserulea (Linn.). Blue-gray Gnatcatcber. 



Only one seen. 



The following, for variou.s reason.s appended, should be mentioned 

 in this connection : — 



Dendrocygna autumnalis (Linn,). Black-bellied Tree-duck. 

 Dendrocygna fulva ((xmel.). Fulvous Tree-duck. 



Both these are mentioned in Dresser's and Merrill's lists, but not 

 from any locality north of the Rio Grande. Mr. Priour says that 

 both breed on the Xueces marshes, but produced no conclusive 

 evidence. 



Columba flavirostris Wagl. Red-billed Pigeon. 



Another bird which Priour assures me straggles as far north as 

 Corpus Christi in early spring. 



Columbigallina passerina pallescens (Baird). 



Mr. Priour says this dove breeds in the town. 



Strix pratincola Bonap. Barn Owl. 



I was shown several burrows in the face of a steep bank rising 

 from Nueces Bay where this owl is said to breed regularly. 



Speotyto cunicularia bypogaea (Bonap.). Burrowing Owl. 



The com2:)lete disappearance of this common and characteristic 

 bird from the region of Corpus Christi is directly due to the usurpa- 

 tion of their prairie domain by the now ubiquitous chaparral. 



Ceryle cabanisi (Tschudi.). Texan Kingfisher. 



This diminutive species, never common, seems to be growing rarer 

 yearly. I made especial search for it on the Kueces, in a locality 

 where it previously occurred, but without success. 

 " Ammodramus maritimus peninsulae 1" Allen. Scott's Seaside-sparrow. 



]\Ir. Chapman's remarks on this race, and the deductions made 

 therefrom, may be somewhat simplified by the fact that I did not 

 find any of the "black" Seaside Finches at the spot indicated, nor 

 anywhere else in that vicinity, though special search was made. I 

 am inclined to think Mr. Priour mistaken in his belief that these 

 dark birds remain during the summer. 



Arizoxa. 



As already observed, my stay in southern Arizona covered the 

 period between June 10th and July 12th, the first eight days being 

 spent in the immediate vicinity of Tucson, the next twelve at Oracle, 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



in the live-oak belt on the southern slopes of the Santa Catalina 

 Mountains, forty miles north of Tucson, and part of the remaining 

 ten days in the pine-clad region of their summits, ^vhich rise some 

 eight thousand feet above the Tucson level and five thousand above 

 the elevation at Oracle. The country covered by my rambles in- 

 cluded the central part of a larger area in Pima County, explored 

 by Mr. AV. E. D. Scott during a long residence in the Santa Catalinas. 

 For a more thorough understanding of the region in question, and 

 an excellent description of the natural characteristics of this part of 

 Arizona, I cannot do better than refer to Mr. Scott's introductory 

 paper "On the Avifauna of Pinal County," etc., published in the 

 third volume of the " Auk." 



As in the previous list, those in the subjoined, indicated by an 

 asterisk, are not represented in the collection, no specimens having 

 been secured. 



*1. Anas strepera Linn. GadwalL 



While exploring the uj^per waters of the Santa Clara, four miles 

 from Tucson, I found a duck feeding on the river and shot at it 

 but failed to kill it. Shortly after it was secured by another gunner 

 who was shooting in the vicinity and I Avas enabled to positively 

 identify it. From Mr. Scott's account, it seems to be a rarity, even 

 as a visitant, and this makes its occurrence in summer all the more 

 noteworthy. 



'•■■2. Ardea herodias Linn. Great Blue Heron. 



Rare. 



■■3. Ardea virescens Linn. Green Heron. 



A few noted in the valley. 

 *4. Gallinula galeata (Licht.). Florida (iJallinule. 



A pair seen on Silver Lake, near Tucson. 

 *5. Fulica americana Gmel. American Coot. 



Also seen on the Santa Clara River. 

 •■6. Aegiahtis vocifera (Linn.). Kikleer. 



Not uncommon in the Santa Clara Valley. 

 7. Callipepla squamata (^'ig.). Scaled Partridge. 



Wherever found, the Scaled Quail was associated with Gambel's, 

 both on the mesas and in the lower edge of the oak-belts. One was 

 shot near the hotel at Oracle, but they rarely attain such an alti- 

 tude, even in the breeding season, and are probably induced to 

 wander awa3' from their usual haunts in search of water which is 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



very scarce in June. Around Tucson I saw none of this species 

 and not until I reached the lower mesa slopes did any appear. At 

 no time was I sure of finding them until fairly below the oak belt. 

 In numbers they ranked far below (.'. gambeli, not one in ten of all 

 the partridges seen being squamata. 



8. Callipepla gambeli (Nutt.). Gambel's Partridge. 



I did not meet with any flocks of this species in the valley. 

 They are very abundant in the. oak belt, ranging as high as the 

 lower pines and at the time of my visit were leading about their 

 families of young, which varied in size from the newly hatched chick 

 to half-grown birds. The male bird continues its harsh cry after the 

 young have left the nest, and for sufficient reasons, too lengthy to 

 be presented in this paper, I am convinced they are polygamous, 

 whereas C. squamata is not. 

 *9. Cyrtonyx montezumae ( Vig.). Massena Partridge. 



Three " Fool Quails " were noticed on the higher slopes of the 

 Catalinas, one of them at an elevation of 7000 feet. 



The habits of the Massena Partridges are very dissimilar to those 

 of the genus Callipepla, reminding one strongly of our eastern Bob- 

 white in their aptness for quick concealment and sudden flight. 



*10. Meleagris gallopavo mexicana (Gould), Mexican Turkey. 



Owing to a disastrous fire in the Mt. Lemon region of the Cata- 

 linas, this bird, once common, has wholly abandoned that part of 

 the country. I did not see or hear of it elsewhere. 



11. Columba fasciata l^ay. Band-tailed Pigeon. 



Found well dispersed throughout the oak and pine belts and 

 breeding in the latter. All nests examined conlained either a sin- 

 gle young or egg. 

 '•■12. Columbigallina passerina pallescens (Baird), Mexican (iround Dove. 



A few seen in the Tucson suburbs. 

 *13. Pseudogryphus californianus (Shaw). California Vulture. 



I was informed by Mr. Jack Al winkle, a ranchman at Oracle, 

 that he shot a " Condor " several years ago, near the summit of 

 Mount Lemon. It was perched on a huge rock some distance from 

 their camp, was shot to test the range of his rifle, fell dead, and, 

 after a careless examination, was thrown away. Besides these facts, 

 and his assertion that it was " twice as large as a buzzard," my 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 1 •") 



informant added that it was the only one he had seen since leaving 

 California, where, as a cowboy, he had spent several years. 



This statement of an excellent hunter and reliable observer 

 should entitle this species to a place in the avifauna of Arizona. 



*14. Cathartes aura (Linn.). Turkey Vulture. 



Fairly common up to 4000 ft. 



15. Accipiter cooperi (Bonap.). Cooper's Hawk. 



Several couples found breeding and young secured. 



16. Buteo borealis calurus (Cass.). Western Red-tail. 



Common. A pair found as high as 8000 ft. 



17. Buteo abbreviatus Caban. Zone-tailed Hawk. 



Some half-dozen noted, one at 9000 ft. elevation. 

 A nest with two young was found in a canon near Oracle in a 

 juniper. 



*18. Buteo swainsoni Bonap. Swainson's Hawk. 



I came suddenly upon a pair of these Hawks sitting on the bank, 

 at a bend in the Santa Clara, but they escaped before I could 

 secure them. 



■■■19. Aquila chrysaetos (Linn.). Golden Eagle. 



A pair were observed sitting on the crags which overlook the 

 Canon DeOro, above the trail to JNIt. Lemon. 



20- Falco sparverius Linn. Sparrow Hawk. 



Abundant everywhere, 



*21. Polyborus cheriway (Jacq.), Audubon's Caracara. 



Two were seen near Tucson and the species was occasionally noted 

 near Oracle. 

 *22. Syrnium occidentale Xantus. Spotted Owl. 



On the opposite side of the Santa Clara valley at a point where 

 there rises a rocky hill whose precipitous sides front the city of 

 Tuscon, I found several of these owls. One pair was noticed perch- 

 ing on some large boulders and though they were in the full glare of the 

 sun they did not appear at all disconcerted. From the appearance 

 of the surroundings it seemed that these boulders were their regular 

 stands, and this was rendered more likely as a nest from which a 

 brood had evidently been raised was afterwards found in tlie 

 recesses of a narrow ledge below where they had been sitting, 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



23. Megascops asio trichopsis (Wagl.). Mexican Screech Owl. 



A young bird of this variety about two-thirds grown, was found 

 in the chaparral near Tucson. 



24. Bubo virginianus subarcticus (Hoy). Western Horned Owl. 

 Frequently heard but rarely seen. They are rare in the low- 

 lands. 



■■25. Micropallas whitneyi (Cooper). Elf Owl. 

 Though said to be numerous, none were met with. 



26. Geococcyx californianus (Less.). Road Runner. 



Found more abundantly near the oak-belt than in the vicinity of 

 Tucson. I observed them also at a considerable distance above 

 Oracle. 



■■■27. Ceryle alcyon (Linn.). Kingfisher. 



Very few noted around Tucson. 



28. Dryobates villosus hyloscopus (Cab.). Cabanis' Woodpecker. 



Found sparingly at 8000 feet elevation among the pines. 



29. Dryobates scalaris bairdi (Sol.). Baird's Woodpecker. 



Common in the oak-belt and decreasing as you descend toward 

 the plain. 



30. Melanerpes formicivorus bairdi Ridgw. Californian Woodpecker. 

 Found breeding from the oak-belt upwards, to 9000 feet eleva- 

 tion. 



31. Melanerpes uropygialis (Baird). Gila Woodpecker. 

 Co-extensive with the giant cacti. 



32. Colaptes cafer (Gmel.). Red-shafted Flicker. 



Only found in the pine woods and rare even there. 



33. Colaptes chrysoides (Malh.). Gilded Flicker. 



Tolerably numerous in the valley, but none seen elsewhere. 

 ■*34. Phalaenoptilus nuttalli (Aud.). Poorwill. 



Abundant, and breeding in the oak belt. 

 35. Chordeiles texensis Lawr. Texan Xighthawk. 



I found these birds abundant in the immediate vicinity of Tucson. 

 They frequented the mesquite in preference to more open tracts and 

 spent much of their time, even during the mid-day hours, in dash- 

 ing about among the chaparral bushes for food, invariably lighting 

 when tired in the shade of a bush or cactus. The song of this bird 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



has a wonderful resemblance to the distant hollow, rolling 

 " whooooo " of Megascops. It is uttered by both sexes and whether 

 they be on the ground or on the wing, the quality of these notes 

 is so ventriloquial that I actually stumbled over three of the birds 

 without taking notice of them, in the search for a supposed owl 

 that I imagined 1 heard in a distant tree. On no occasion did they 

 make any other sound which would show their intimate relationship 

 to our C. virginianus. 



••36. Micropus melanoleucus (Baird). White-throated Swift. 



A pair of these birds were certainly breeding in the cliffs where I 

 found Syrnium occidentale, though I could not, because of the nature 

 of the ground, make thorough enough search to discover the where- 

 abouts of their nest. 



I saAV frequent companies of these birds in various places along 

 the Santa Clara Valley, skimming the waters of Silver Lake and 

 again sailing and twittering high in air, reminding one strongly, in 

 both situations, of the Chimney Swift. 



The day of my ascent of Mount Lemon, several of this species 

 were seen coursing about the summit in company with Violet-green 

 Swallows. 



37. Eugenes fulgens (Swains.). Rivoli Humming-bird. 



Soon after my arrival in the Catalina pine-belt I noted a large 

 hummer, feeding among the yellow columbines of a little canon 

 near the camp. I did not see it again until the day of my de- 

 parture from the mountains, when I found it in the same place and 

 upon shooting it found it to be an adult male of the above species. 

 This is probably the most northerly record for the Rivoli Humming- 

 bird and considering the time of its capture it seems quite likely 

 that it was breeding in the vicinity. 



38. Troohilus alexandri Bourc. & Muls. Black-chinned Humming-bird. 



Very abundant in the Cataliuas. One shot at Tucson and one 

 at Oracle. The love antics of this bird are highly entertaining. 

 Selecting an open space among the trees in the immediate vicinity 

 of its nest the male starts from his perch among the willows utter- 

 ing a shrill, continuous trilling note that bears a strange proportion 

 in its tone and quickness to the varying rapidity of flight. Having 

 reached the farthest limits of its chosen pleasure ground, at an 

 elevation corresponding to that of the nearest tree-tops, it suddenly 

 describes a headlong, parabolic curve, just grazing the ground and 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



rising with a diminishing cadence of voice' and wings to the tree- 

 tops on the opposite side where it repeats the manoeuvre, regaining 

 its former position. These evolutions are kept up in rapid succession, 

 sometimes as many as thirty flights being taken with scarcely a rest. 

 The geometric exactness of the curves which are traced by the bird 

 is astonishing. 



The nests of the Black-chinned Hummer are easily found, but my 

 experience agrees with that of Mr. Scott regarding the scarcity of 

 nests of the other hummingbirds which inhabit the Catalina 

 Mountains. 



39. Trochilus platycercus Swains. Broad-taileil Humuiing-binl. 



A common bird, associating with the former. I found a pair 

 l)uilding in an oak tree beside a dry water-course but did not 

 discover the nest until I had killed the female, whose body con- 

 tained a well-developed egg. 



40. Tyrannus verticalis Say. Arkansas Kingbird. 



Found breeding from the plains to within a few hundred feet of 

 the pines. 



41. Tyrannus vociferans Swains. Cassin's Kingbird. 



A few seen and two captured in the oaks near Oracle. 



42. Myiarchus mexicanus magister Ridgw. Arizona Cre^'ted Fl3'catcher. 



This bird was not common. It was not seen at an elevation 

 of a thousand feet above Tucson. 



43. Myiarchus cinerascens Lawr. Ash-tbroated Flycatcher. 



Found well distributed and plentiful all the way from Tucson to 

 t'lie lower regions of the jiine belt. 



44. Sayornis saya (Bonap.). Say's Phcebe. 



As uniformly distributed as the former thougli more common in 

 the oak woods. 



45. Sayornis nigricans (Swains.) Black Phoebe. 

 Seen only at Tucson and not common. 



46. Contopus pertinax Cab. Coues' Flycatcher. 



Only noticed in the pine belt where they were the most abundant 

 Flycatcher. 



47. Contopus richardsonii (Swain?.). Western Wood Pewee. 



Seen only in the pine but not common. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



48. Empidonax difficilis Baird. Western Flycatcher. 



Two nests with young and several mated pairs were ob.served 

 in the Catalina pines. 



49. Empidonax pusillus (Swains.). Little Flycatcher. 



A pair were taken in a willow clump on the banks of the Santa 

 Clara. They evidently had a nest but it was not found. 



50. Pyrocephalus rubineus mexicanus (i^el.). Vermilion Flycatcher. 



The greatest altitude at which I secured this Flycatcher was that 

 of Oracle, nearly 6000 feet They were increa.singly abundant as 

 you neared the plains. 



51. Otocoris alpestris adusta Dwight. Scorched irorned Lark. 



Horned Larks were not abundant, though I frequently observed 

 small companies on the higher plains and mesas between Tucson 

 and the oak belt. I succeeded in securing but one, a young bird, 

 fully fledged. 



52. Cyanocitta stelleri macrolopha (Baird). Long-cresttd .Jay. 



This species was confined strictly to the pine belt during my stav. 

 Its scolding is a peculiar combination of hiss, snarl and sneer. 



53. Aphelocoma woodhousei (Baird). Woodhouse's .Jay. 



Only three of these wary birds were noted, all within a mile of 

 Oracle, in the oak belt. 



54. Aphelocoma sieberi arizonae Ridgw. Arizona Jay. 



'The strict coincidence of the range of this abundant species with 

 the limits of the oak belt is as remarkable as that of the Long- 

 crested Jay with the pines. 



55. Corvus corax sinuatus (Wagl.). American Raven. 



Several Ravens visited the water tank and corral at Oracle daily, 

 and I occasionally saw them soaring among the foothills. 



56. Corvus cryptoleucus Couch. White-necked Raven. 



The above remarks equally apply to this species, with the differ- 

 ence that the former generally betook themselves to higher altitudes 

 while the latter departed down the nearest canon toward the San 

 Pedro. 



57. Molothrus ater obscurus ((!mel.). Dwarf Cowbird. 

 Numei'ous in the vallev and occasional around Oracle. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



58. Agelaius phoeniceus sonoriensis Ridgw. Sonoran Red-wing? 



These Blackbirds were fairly numerous along the water-courses of 

 the Santa Clara.^ 



59. Icterus parisorum Bonap. Scott's Oriole. 



Frequently found leading their young among the oaks around 

 Oracle and 1000 feet higher. A pair were also seen in the 

 mesquite bordering the oak belt. 



60. Icterus cucullatus nelsoni Ridgw. Arizona Hooded Oriole. 



While the range of this species extends from Tucson nearly up to 

 the lower edge of Catalina pines it was nowhei'e so abundant as 

 in the oak belt. 



61. Icterus buUocki (Swains.). Bullock's Oriole. 



None seen in the Catalina region but abundant in the heavy 

 chaparral of the Santa Clara Valley, where they breed. By 

 imitating the cry of a young bird and concealing myself in the 

 bushes I never failed to bring a crowd of these usually timid birds 

 within easy range. 



62. Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis (Say). House Finch. 



Very abundant to near the lower pine limit: males singing, and 

 young in every stage of growth. Some of their call notes, and their 

 actions and habits in general, are very suggestive of Passer 

 doinesticus. 



63. Spinus psaltria arizonae (Coues). Arizona Goldfinch. 



Several rather large flocks were seen about Tucson and a small 

 one in the oak belt; two specimens were secured. 



64. Chondestes grammacus strigatus (Swains.). W'estern Lark Sparrow. 



Found rather sparingly in the oak belt but nowhere else. 



65. Junco cinereus paHiatus Ridgw. Arizona Juneo. 

 Breeding abundantly in the pine belt. 



66. Amphispiza bilineata (Cass.). Black-throated Sparrow. 



Ranging commonly, and breeding from Tucson to 1000 feet above 

 Oracle. 



1 Mr. Scott makes no allusion to this Blackbird in his paper, the only species 

 of Agelaius mentioned being A. giibernator (Auk 18S7, p. 22). Only one speci- 

 men, an adult male is contained in Mr. Rhoads' collection so that it is difficult to 

 decide to which race it should be referred. The measurements seem to be nearer 

 to KxvlS. pJuxniceiis rather than to sonoriensis, the wing being 4*80 in. — W. S. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



67. Feucsea arizonae Ridgw. Arizona Sparrow. 



This species frequented the thick bunches of bear-grass just below 

 the lower edge of the oak belt ; they were breeding and were very 

 shy. Their habits are eminently terrestrial, and at no time did they 

 leave the ground save to perch on the lowly bear-grass stems and 

 utter a rather sweet song. Four individuals were seen, all within a 

 hundred yards of each other. Three were secured. Nowhere else 

 did I see or hear this species, though a most careful search was 

 made in the neighborhood. It is not mentioned in Mr. Scott's 

 paper. 



68. Feucsea raficeps boucardi (Scl.). Boueard's Sparrow. 



Sparingly distributed throughout the oak belt and lowest portion 

 of the pine belt. 



69. Melospiza fasciata fallax (Baird^. Desert Song Sparrow. 



Found breeding only in the near' vicinity of water in the Santa 

 Clara Valley. 



70. Fipilo maculatus megalonyx (Baird). Spurred Towhee. 

 Common in the pines and ranging up to the mountain tops. 



71. Fipilo fuscus mesoleucus (Baird). Canon Towhee. 



Abundant in the forest-clad areas as far up as the oaks reach 

 into the pines. The resemblance of this bird's song to certain notes 

 in the Cardinal's repertory is remarkable. 



*72. Fipilo aberti Baird. Abert's Towhee. 



This species very sparingly replaces the preceding in the neigh- 

 borhood of Tucson. 



73. Cardinalis cardinalis superbus Ridgw. Arizona Cardinal. 



One pair of these were secured at Tucson. No other seen. 



74. Fyrrhuloxia sinuata beckhami Ridgw. Arizona Pyrrhuloxia. 



A few were seen near Tucson in the chaparral of the Santa Clara 

 Valley. 



75. Habia melanocephala (Swain?.). Black-headed (Grosbeak, 



Found breeding abundantly in the Catalina pines up to very 

 high altitudes. 



76. Guiraca caerulea eurhyncha Coues. Western Blue Grosbeak. 



In the valley of the Santa Clara about Tucson this Grosbeak was 

 daily seen. I shot a male and female which were carrying building 

 material into a willow thicket on the river bank. 



9 




122 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



*77. Passerina amoena (Say). Lazuli Finch. 



One seen near the railroad station, Tucson. 



78. Piranga ludoviciana ( Wils.). Louisiana Tanager. 



Fairly common in the Catalina pines. 



79. Piranga hepatica Swains. Hepatic Tanager. 



In the same locality as the former but less common. Also found 

 in the upper oak belt. 



80. Piranga rubra cooperi Ridgw. Cooper's Tanager. 



Ranges between the central portion of the oak belt and the Santa 

 Clara Valley but is not common. 



81. Progne subis hesperia Brewst. Western Martin ? 



Abundant in the lowland regions, particularly about Silver 

 Lake.' 



*82. Chelidon erythrogaster (Bodd.). Barn Swallow. 



Observed on the foothills but not in the valley. 

 ■83. Tachycineta thalassina (Swains.). Violet Green Sparrow. 



Abundant on the Catalina mountain tops where it breeds in holes 

 like its eastern congener, T. bicolor. 



-■■■34. Clivicola riparia (Linn.). Bank Swallow. 



8j. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (Aud.). Rough- winged Swallow. 



These two species were found associated along the higher banks 

 of the Santa Clara in the Tucson suburbs, the latter being the more 

 numerous. 



86. Phainopepla nitens (Swains.). Phainopepla. 



Uniformly distributed throughout all the region traversed, up to 

 6000 feet. 



87. Lanius ludovicianus excubitorides (Swain.s.). White-rumped Shrike. 

 Tolerably abundant from the lowlands upward as far as Oracle. 



88. Vireo gilvus (Vieill). AVarbling Vireo. 



A pair of these birds were found nesting in a maple on Mt, 

 Lemon at 8000 feet. 



89. Vireo solitarius plumbeus (Coues). Plumbeous Vireo. 



In the pine belt of the Catalinas I found the Plumbeous Vireo 

 tolerably abundant. In habits it reminded me of V. solitarius, 



^ Only one specimen, a young male, was secured by Mr. Rhoads and it is 

 impossible to determine its affinities with certainty, though it seems to approach 

 this race.— W. S. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



especially in its fondness for the tops of the highest evergreens. 

 The song is noticeably different from that of our eastern bird, 

 despite a resemblance. 



*90. Vireo bellii pusillus (Coues). Least Vireo. 



The Least Vireo was found sparingly in the chaparral of vacant 

 lots around Tucson and in similar places in the Santa Clara 

 Valley. Independently of the taxonomic differences which may 

 warrant j\Ir. Ridgway's claim to full specific rank for this Vireo, 

 there is nothing in its song or habits to sujiport this position. 



91. Vireo vicinior Coue*. Gray Vireo. 



Frequent in the oak-woods and nowhere else. 



92. HelminthopMla luciae (Cooper). Lucy's Warbler. 



Abundant from Tucson upward to a few hundred feet above 

 Oracle. 



93. Helmiuthopliila virginiB (Baird). Virginia Warbler. 



Little companies of this species frequented the deciduous trees in 

 the lower edge of the Pine-belt, reminding me in their habits of 

 the Bush Tits and Titmice with which they associate. 



*94. Dendroica olivacea (Giraud.). Olive Warbler. 



I saw one of these birds in the mountains but failed to secure it. 

 It was in full view and its peculiar habit of perching on the 

 large pines branches near the trunk, its deliberate movements and 

 characteristic markings, examined Avith a glass at short range, con- 

 vince me of the correctness of my identification. 



96. Dendroica aestiva sonorana Brewst. Sonora Yellow Warbler. 



Plentiful around Tucson in the valley but seen nowhere else.^ 



96. Dendroica auduboni (Towns.). Audubon's Warbler. 

 Not rare in the Catalina among the pines. 



97. Dendroica graciae Coues. Grace's Warbler. 

 Abundant in the pines. 



98. Dendroica nigrescens (Towns.). Black-throated Gray Warbler. 



Abundant in the pines. 



1 A young bird of this race in the collection is silky white beneath, with the 

 lores and sides of the throat light yellow ; above gray, the lesser wing coverts and 

 rtimp yellow-olive, greater wing coverts edged with buff, wings and tail as in adults. 

 The specimen was evidently moulting, as yellow pin feathers are to be seen here 

 and there on the breast. — W. S. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



99. Geothlypis trichas occidentalis Brewst. Western Yellow-throat. 

 Sparingly found in the immediate vicinity of running water 



around Tucson. 



100. Icteria virens longicauda Lawr. Long-tailed Chat. 

 Abundant in the valley. 



101. Setophaga picta (.Swains.;. Painted Redstart. 



This exquisite species was common in the Catalina pine woods 

 and the upper edge of the oak belt. 



102. Cardellina rubrifrons (Giraud). Red-faced Warbler. 



The above remarks apply equally to this species, though its range 

 does not extend so far up as that of the Redstart. 



103. Mimus polyglottos Linn. Mockingbird. 



Without exception the most abundant bird in the country, 

 ranging up to 5000 or 6000 feet. 



104. Harporhyncus curvirostris palmeri Ridgw. Palmer's Thrasher. 



To the best of my recollection Palmer's Thrasher was the com- 

 monest species of the genus, ranging somewhat lower than the 

 following. 



105. Harporhyncus bendirei Coues. Bendire"s Thrasher. 

 Found abundantly from the plains up to 4000 feet. 



106. Harporhyncus crissalis (Henry). Crissal Thrasher. 



Equal in abundance and with a similar range to H. bendirei. 



107. Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus (,Lafr.). Cactus AVren. 

 Abounding in all dry situations between Tucson and Oracle. 



108. Salpinctes obsoletus (Say). Rock Wren. 



Tolerably common in rocky situations within the oak belt. A 

 pair observed on top of a spur of Mt. Lemon, 8000 feet high. 



109. Catherpes mexicanus punetulatus Ridgw. Dotted Canon Wren. 



The first of these enchanting songsters was heard among the rocks 

 of a hill near Tucson, around which flowed the waters of the Santa 

 Clara. They were rare in this locality. I next discovered them in 

 the boulder-covered foot-hills about Oracle and found them breed- 

 ing in the Santa Catalinas, one pair having located in a pile of 

 rocks several hundred feet above our camp. 



110. Thryothorus bewickii bairdi (Salv. .t (iodm.). Baird's Wren. 

 Throughout the oak belt and for some distance in the pines this 



species was very common. I did not find any at a lower elevation. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. J 25 



111. Troglodytes aedon aztecus Baird. Western House Wren. 



Very commoii in the pine clad areas of the Catalinas where its 

 range overlaps that of Baird's Wren. 



112. Certhia familiaris mexicana (Glog.). Mexican Creeper. 



A few were noted in the higher pines on Mt. Lemon 7000 to 8000 

 feet. 



113. Sitta carolinensis aculeata (Cass.). Slender-billed Nuthatch. 



Very common throughout the pines to the highest mountain tops. 



114. Sitta pygmaea Vig. Pygmy Nuthatch. 



Co-extensive with preceding species and even more abundant. 



115. Parus woUweberi (Bonap.). Bridled Titmouse. 



Abundant in the oak-belt and lower edge of pine belt. 



116. Parus gambeli Ridgw. Mountain Chickadee. 



Found on the Catalina mountains in flocks, at and above 7000 

 feet ; always in the tops of the lofty firs.^ 



117. Psaltriparus plumbeus Baird. Lead- colored •Bush-Tit. 



Found everywhere, within the limits of the oak belt. 



118. Auriparus flaviceps (Sund.). Verdin. 



Wiiile I occasionally saw the Verdin in the fringe of the oak 

 growth, it became increasingly numerous as I neared Tucson where 

 it was abundant. 



■119. Regulus satrapa olivaceus Baird. Western Golden-crowned Kinglet. 



I found a male of this species among the fir tops near the summit 

 of Mt. Lemon. It continued to utter a sweet song while I watched 

 it through my glass. 



120. Polioptila caerulea obscura Ridgw. Western Gnatcatcher. 



Breeds in the lower edge of the pines, not common. 



121. Polioptila plumbea Baird. Plumbeous Gnatcatcher. 



Common everywhere among the foot-hills and higher uplands but 

 rare in the valleys. Li the lower pine belt it is replaced by the 

 other species. 



122. Turdus aonalaschkae auduboni (Baird). Audubon's Hermit Thrush. 



These thrushes sang continuously during my ascent of Mount 



Lemon, answering each other from the opposing canons with the 



same measured cadences and pauses that characterize the song of 



1 This species does rot seem to have been previously recorded from this dis- 

 trict.— W. S. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



pallasii. This was on the first day of July, and from what I 



observed, they were abundant and the breeding season w-as at its 



height. 



■123. Merula migratoria propinqua Ridgw. Western Robin. 



A small number found breeding among the Catalina pines. 



124. Sialia mexicana Swains. AVestern Bluebird. 



Abundant in the pine belt at all elevations. 



The following w^ere accidentally omitted from their proper place 

 in the list. 

 Zenaidura macroura (Linn.). Mourning Dove. 



Oracle and Tucson. 



Melopelia leucoptera (Linn.). White-winged Dove. 



Tucson. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



February 2, 

 The President, General Isaac J. "Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled "The Development of the Shell in the coiled 

 stage of Baculites compressus Say," by Amos P. Brown was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



The death of Andrew H. ]\Iiller a member, January 2!», was 

 announced. 



Drexelia, a New Genus of Spiders. — Rev. H. C. McCook, D. D. 

 stated that Mr. Cambridge had described, under the name of Epeira 

 tetragnuthoide!>, a species of spiders which without doubt is identical 

 with Epeira directa of Hentz. The late Count Keyserling in his 

 manuscript notes as edited by Dr. George Marx, applies the name 

 of Epeira deludens to the same species, and it is so catalogued, in 

 litteris, by Dr. Marx in his Catalogue of North American Araneje. 

 Specimens in the speaker's collection, which are beyond doubt iden- 

 tical with Hentz's Epeira directa, have been carefully compared 

 with specimens in the Marx collection, identified by Keyserling jis 

 his Ejjeira deludens, and both, again, with the descriptions of E. 

 tetragnathoides by Cambridge in "Biologia Centrali Americana." 



Not only is the specific name of Hentz thus restored, but it 

 becomes necessary to make this species the type of a new genus, 

 which Dr. McCook had named Drexelia, in recognition of the noble 

 contribution to scientific and industrial education made by our 

 fellow townsman, Mr. Anthony J. Drexel. Drexelia is separated 

 sharply from Epeira by the peculiar elongated shape of the sternum, 

 which is at least twice as long as wide; and further, by the char- 

 acter of the maxilla?, which are longer than wide; and still further 

 by the shape of the abdomen, which is long, narrow, straight, and, 

 especially in the female, somewhat compressed both at the base and 

 the apex. The legs, too, are less stout than those of the tyj)ical 

 Epeira. In the form of the maxill?e Drexelia approaches both 

 Nephila and Meta, but differs from both and in a more marked 

 degree from Epeira, in relatively greater length of the sternum. It 

 differs also from these genera in the form of the abdomen, that of 

 Nephila being long as in Drexelia, but sub-cylindrical in form ; that 

 of Afeta being a rounded oval, approaching thus the typical Epeira. 

 In the shape of the abdomen Drexelia somewhat resembles Teirag- 

 natha, a fact which doubtless suggested the name given by Cambridge. 

 It also approaches this genus in the rather slight and feebly armed 

 character of the legs; but the mouth parts and sternum, to say 

 nothing of other characteristics, widely divide these two genera. 

 Drexelia approaches Epeira in the contour of the face and head. 




128 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and resembles examples of the same species in the groupiug of the 

 eyes ; but in all other respects it is so widely divided from the typi- 

 cal Epeira, that it becomes necessary to separate it from the genus ; 

 and, as he knew of no other to which it can be relegated without 

 equal objections, he had deemed it necessary to establish for it this 

 new genus. 

 Drexelia directa Hentz. 



1847 Epeha directa, Hentz. Jour. B. S.. Nat. Sci., V, PI. 31, tig. 21; and U. 



S. p. 119, PI. 13, fig. 21. 

 1847 Epeira rubella Hentz Ibid, fig. 22; Ibid, p. 120, fig. 22. 



1889 Epeira tetragnathoiiles Cambridge. Biolog. Cent. Am., Aran. p. 16, PI. 

 viii. figs. 9, lU. 



1890 Epeira deltidens Marx, in lift., Catalg. p. 544. (Keyserling Die Spinn. 

 Am. IV, Epeir.) 



1890 Singa rubella (Hz.) Marx. Ibid, p. 547. 



February 9. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wi.star, in the chair. 

 Forty-six persons present. 



February 16. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for jjublication : — 

 A new Pycnogonum from the West Coast of the United States. 

 By J. E. Ives. 



Birds collected by the West Greenland Expedition of 1891. 

 By Witmer Stone. 



Anatomy of West Indian Helices. — ]\[r. H. A. Pilsbry stated that 

 the genital system in the Helices belonging to the genus Cara- 

 colus is characterized by its simplicity, resembling the North 

 American genus Polygyra in this respect. It difiers from this last 

 in several points, notably in the presence of a flagellum upon the 

 penis ; or, to speak more exactly, upon that slender continuation of 

 the penis which gives rise to both the flagellum and theras deferens. 

 In Caraeolus rostratus (PI. VI, figs. C, D) the flagellum (fl.) is very 

 jhort; the duct of the sjjermatheca being likewise short. The jaw 

 (PI. VI, fig. E) is stout, its central portion arching forward like a 

 beak, with the suggestion of a median prominence to the cutting 

 edge. It is completely devoid of ribs, although some other forms of 

 C iraco I us v^hich are scarcely distinguishable specifically from this 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



one, are strougly odontognathous, another proof that this character 

 is worthless for dividing genera or sections among the Helices. 



Caracolus (Lucerna) acutus (PI. VI, Hg. A.) has a short fiagellum, 

 but much longer than that of C. rostratus. The duct of the sperma- 

 theca is long. The jaw (PI. VI, fig. B) has strong, unequal ribs. 



HemitrocJius (Pkigioptycha) salvatoj^is has the same type of jaw 

 "which Binney has described and figured for H. varians the typical 

 species of Hemitrochus. In the present species, which belongs to the 

 section Plagioptycha, the jaw (V\. VI, fig. G) is highly arched, has a 

 feeble median projection, and a group of faint vertical stride in the 

 middle. The genital system (PI. VI, fig. F) is complicated by the 

 presence of a large dart sac, several unequal accessory glands, (o. 

 gl.) corresponding to the " digitate glands " of the restricted genus 

 Helix {H. pomatia, etc.). The penis {p.) is slender and twisted. 

 It bears a long fiagellum of the " whip-lash " type. I found no 

 retractor muscle attached to the penis, but I suppose that there 

 is one. 



I have not commented on or figured the teeth of these forms, as 

 Binney has already investigated those of numerous allied species. 



These few species serve to show the marked difterence existing 

 between the genital systems of the two main genera of West 

 Indian Helices: — Caracolus and Hemitrochus. 

 Explanation of Plate VI. 



A. Genitalia of Caracolus (Lucerna) acutus Lam. drawn from a 



specimen collected by Wm. Fox, in Jamaica (Mus. No. of she^ll, 

 61,632.) 



B. Jaw of the same. 



C. Genitalia of Caracolus rostratus Pfr., (Cuba), obtained from a 



bunch of bananas. 



D. Same specimen, from the opposite side. 



E. Jaw of the same specimen. 



F . GemtaWsi of Hemitrochu.<i (Plagioptycha) salvatoris Pfr, Drawn 



from a specimen furnished bv Wm. H. Dall. (Mus. No. of 

 shell, 62,941). Wattlings Id.', Bahamas. 



G. Jaw of the same individual. 



(P. penis, Ji,. fiagellum, p. ?■., retractor i)enis, r. s. spermatheca, a. gl. 

 accessory glands. 



February 23. 



The President, General Isaac J. AVistak, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons pi-esent. 



The death of Henry Walter Bates, a correspondent, February 17, 

 was announced. 



The following were elected members: — 




130 



PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Walter Horstmann, Charles S. Boyer, John M. Hutchinson, 

 S. Emlen Meigs and Simon J. Martin. 



Howard Ayres of Milwaukee Avas elected a correspondent. 

 The follow^ing were ordered to be printed : — 




1892,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



NEW AND UNFIGURED UNIONID^. 

 BY H. A. PILSRRY. 

 TJnio Quintardii Cragin. PI. VII, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



This plicate Unio presents characters which separate it easily 

 from the nuinerous Avaved species of the Mississippi basin. The 

 sculpture consists of a series of superimposed v-shaped waves, the 

 apices of the V's directed towards the beaks. There are some of 

 the narrow, impressed furrows, crossing the waves at right angles, 

 which form so prominent a character of the sculpture of Uiiio imdu- 

 latiis Barnes. The cuticle is dark-brown with occasional blackish 

 streaks, as in other shells of the same group. The beaks are 

 eroded and the nacre white. Other characters are shown in the 

 figure, which is draAvn from the original type. 



This species is from Salt Creek, a tributary of the Deep Fork of 

 the Canadian river, Sac and Fox Reservation, Oklahoma Territory. 



A description of this shell was published by Prof. F. W. Cragin, 

 in the Bulletin of the Washburn College Laboratory of Xatural 

 History, II, No. 8, p. 6, October, 1887. It has not before been 

 figured. 

 Unio Pilsbryi Marsh, Plate VIII, figs. 7, S. 



Like the last species, this is a member of the plicate group of 

 Uniones. It is a decidedly compressed, oblong shell, black 

 in color, having very distinctly marked lines of groAvth, which 

 are spaced over the greater part of the disc, but become 

 crowded on the lower margin. It has numerous oblique waves, 

 Avhich generally bifurcate indistinctly toward the posterior- 

 lower end. The waves are more or less cut by short impressed 

 furrows, as in U. undidatus, etc. The nacre is white and very 

 thick anteriorly, but in the cavity of the valves and posteriorly it is 

 thin and stained with blue and olive-green. The lateral teeth are 

 also olive-green. This species was collected by Mr. Elwood Pleas 

 in the Little Red River, Arkansas. It has been described by Mr. 

 AVm. A. Marsh in the " Nautilus, " V. p. 1. 



Unio Pilsbryi is not closely allied to any other American species. 

 It has a striking resemblance to Unio Leai Gray of China. 



Specimens, including the individual figured, are in the exhibit 

 of United States shells in the ^luseum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Arconaia Provanclieriana Pilsbry, PI. VII, figs. 4, 5, 6. 



This species has already been briefly noticed in these Proceedings, 

 and a description has been published in the " Nautilus, " IV, p. 127. 

 It may be compared in the degree and direction of twist to the 

 variety of Arconaia contorta Lea, figured by Heude on PL XV, fig, 

 32, of his " Conchyliologie fluviatile de la Province de Nanking et 

 ■de la Chine Centrale, " a Chinese species. The locality of this 

 species is not known positively, but it is supposed to be from Chiua. 

 The type is No. 63,094 of the collection of the Philadelphia 

 Academy. 



The Arconaia Delaportei of Crosse and Fischer (Journal de Con- 

 chyliologie, 1876, Pis. X and XI,) diflfers decidedly from the present 

 foi'm in outline, and in the winged extremities. A. Provanclieriana 

 may, indeed, prove to belong elsewhere than in Arconaia, as it is 

 not at all produced at the ends, as are the species hitherto in- 

 cluded in that genus or subgenus. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



REPORT ON THE HYMENOPTERA COLLECTED IN WEST GREENLAND. 

 BY WILLIAM J. FOX, 



The Hymenoptera enumerated in the present paper were col- 

 lected by Messrs. Mengel and Hughes, who accompanied the 

 Academy's recent expedition to West Greenland. The larger por- 

 tion of the collection was made at Disco Island, in lat. 69° 10' 

 and at McCormick Bay, Lat. 77° 40' while Herbert Island, Lat. 

 77° 30' contributes one specimen. The species of Nemahis de- 

 scribed below was forwarded to Mr. C. L. Marlatt of the U. S. De- 

 partment of Agriculture, a specialist to whom I am indebted for 

 the description. My thanks are due Prof. Angelo Heilprin and to 

 Mr. E. T. Cresson for the opportunity of studying the collection. 



TEREBRANTIA. 



Nematus borealis Marlatt, n. sp. 



$ — Black, including the tegul?e and trophi ; labrum, tip of abdo- 

 men, tips of femora, tibiie, tarsi except tips and posterior pair dull 

 yellowish or resinous. Antennae moderately long and slightly 

 flattened ; joints three to five, nearly equal ; all coarsely punctured 

 and faintly pubescent. Head more angular than is commonly the 

 case in Nemahis and resembling in this respect the genus Dolerus 

 and in Nematus, N. concolor and particularly rapax ; Avhen viewed 

 from above, sloping regularly and considerably posteriorly ; 

 sparsely pubescent; region including ocelli abruptly elevated or 

 shield-shaped — the posterior ocelli on border of shield and the 

 anterior ocellus in the wide basin of the shield ; clypeus slightly 

 emarginate, shining. Scutellum and lateral lobes of the mesothorax 

 shining. Abdomen with central longitudinal ridge above on pos- 

 terior half Wings perfectly hyaline, veins dark-brown, including 

 costal to base ; stigma large, yellow ; second submarginal cell uni- 

 form in width, i. e., not especially widened at first angle ; distance of 

 first recurrent nervure from base of second cell not twice that of 

 second from lip. Inner tooth of claw large but somewhat smaller 

 than outer tooth. 



L/ength '2d inch (6mm.) 



Expanse -60 inch (14mm.) 



Described from a single $ from Disco Island. This species is 

 allied to, but readily distinguished from concolor, rapax and labra- 

 doris. 




134 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Ichneumon discoensis n. sp. 



A specimen from Disco Island, August lOtb, does not agree Avith 

 any of the species heretofore recorded from Greenland or Arctic 

 America. 



The following description will aid in distinguishing it : Black ; the 

 apical half of the femora, the tibiae, tarsi, the apex of the first, the 

 second and third entirely and the base of the fourth abdominal 

 segments, above and beneath, and a spot on the scutellum, reddish 

 brown ; the tips of fore tibiae and the apical tarsal joints dark ; head 

 and thorax clothed with short, black pubescence, finely and evenly 

 punctured ; clypeus truncate ; antennae situated at a point opposite 

 the middle of the eyes, much shorter than the body, entirely black, 

 38-joiuted, the scape short and stout, hirsute beneath; wings sub- 

 hyaline, with a violaceous reflection, the nervures and stigma black ; 

 metathorax strongly punctured, rugose on the sides, the posterior 

 face enclosed by a very strong ridge, bicarinated ; the upper surface 

 bears four ridges, the two inner ones by far the shortest, all four 

 being connected with the ridge enclosing the posterior face ; at 

 the top of the metapleurae there is another strong, curved ridge, 

 which extends nearly to the posterior coxae ; femora finely punct- 

 ured ; abdomen with fine close punctures, the third segment de- 

 pressed at base. Length about ll"5mm. 

 Exolytus sp. ? 



A small species with the head and thorax black, the four anterior 

 legs except the coxae and trochanters, the hind legs from the apex 

 of the femora, all brownish. 



Disco Island, August 10th. 

 Cryptus arcticus Schiodte. 



Four 9 specimens, Disco Island, August 10th., agree with the 

 description of this species. 



ACULEATA. 

 Eombus nivalis Dhlb. 



Two (? specimens. McCormick Bay, July 27th. 

 Bombus derhamellus IIHg. 



Two J specimens. Herbert Island, July 24th ; McCormick 

 Bay, July 27th. 

 Bombus sp. ? 



A specimen in very poor condition from Disco, June 27th, from 

 present appearances seems to have had the prothorax, scutellum. 




1892.] XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



the first three and last two abdominal segments, dorsally, with 

 yellow pubescence ; the inner side of first joint of posterior tarsi 

 with brownish, glittering pubescence ; otherwise black. 



Bombus hyperboreus Dhlb. {=arcticus Kirbj.) 



This species appears to have been the most abundant. In all 

 four 9 and six $ specimens were obtained. Disco Island, June 

 27th., three 9 's, August 10th., six ^ 's. One specimen a female, 

 has the yellowish pubescence much paler than in the other speci- 

 mens of this sex. 

 Bombus sp. ? 



Two $ specimens. Disco Island, August 10th. I have been 

 unable to identify these specimens with any of the known species of 

 Europe and America. The great variation to which representatives 

 of this genus are subject and the lack of European material at 

 hand, renders it unsafe to describe these as new. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE SHELL IN THE COILED STAGE OF BACTJL- 

 ITES COMPRESSUS SAY. 



BY AMOS P. BROWN. 



In a former brief communication^ the writer has noted the 

 discovery of the young of the above species in some Cretaceous marl 

 from near Deadwood, S. Dak., and has shoAvn that Baciilites was 

 coiled in its earlier stages. In the same communication the develop- 

 ment of the suture is illustrated from a generalized Ceratite stage 

 to the adult suture of B. compressus, thus fixing the species of 

 these young forms. Since the above was communicated the writer 

 has been engaged in the study of the development of the shell in 

 the coiled stage and the results of these investigations are presented 

 herewith. 



The coiled stage of the shell consists of two to two and one-half 

 whorls, the diameter of this coiled portion being 0*8 to 1* mm. The 

 shell then passes at once into the straight form, either tangent to 

 the spiral or somewhat reflexed in certain cases. By breaking the 

 shell back from the straight portion to the protoconch, the develop- 

 ment of the shell was made out and the successive stages in this 

 development observed. By an examination of the surface mark- 

 ings of the shell the form and extent of the embryonic shell on leav- 

 ing the Qg^ — the first nsepionic stage — has been determined with 

 considerable certainty. 



The protoconch appears on a front view broadly elliptical in out- 

 line, being 0*55 mm. to 0*60 mm. in axial diameter by 0.45 mm. in 

 vertical diameter; this axial diameter then diminishes in each suc- 

 ceeding whorl and is not again attained until a length of several 

 millimeters of the straight portion of the shell has been developed. 

 Hence the rounded ends of the protoconch may generally be seen 

 projecting beyond the succeeding whorls when the entire spiral 

 portion of the shell is viewed edgewise. The suture line of the first 

 septum is marked by the prominent narrow saddle over the 

 siphuncle which determines that this form belongs to the Angusti- 

 sellati of Branco. The remainder of the first septum is rather 

 simply curved, the lateral saddles of the succeeding septa being per- 

 haps represented by the slight lateral undulations that exist. Seen 

 from the side the protoconch has the form shown in PI. IX, fig. 4, while 



iProc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1891, pp. 159-160. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



the front view is shown in fig. 3. In this latter the form of the 

 septum may be readily seen, and also the position of the siphuncle. 

 It will be noticed that the perforation of the siphuncle is large (0*07 

 mm. in diameter), this diameter of the perforation remains quite 

 constant throughout the spiral portion of the shell. The form of 

 the first septum is lunate, 0"55 mm. broad by 0*15 mm. high 

 and the lateral extremities reach to near the axis of the spiral. 

 The next following septa have successively smaller lateral 

 diameters and larger vertical diameters, so that the successive 

 whorls become rapidly less and less enveloping. The form of 

 the septa at the same time is gradually changing; the lunate form 

 of the first septum gives place to a broadly elliptical form concave 

 on the inner side; this in turn passes into a more and more circular 

 form, until it becomes completely circular in the straight portion of 

 the shell. Thus Plate IX, fig. 8, shows the fourth septum to be 0"52 

 mm. broad by 0;21 mm. high, the total vertical diameter of the sliell 

 at this point being 0'56 mm. or about the same as the lateral. The 

 seventh septum measures 0*47 mm. by 0"23 mm. high ; the thirteenth, 

 Plate IX, fig. 7, measures 0'45 mm. broad by 0*28 mm. hi^^h. 

 Finally the seventeenth septum, Plate IX, fig. 6, measures 0"50 

 mm. broad by 0"40 ram. high, showing that the minimum breadth has 

 been passed, and in fact at about the fourteenth septum the breadth 

 seems to be least. It will be noticed that the surface of contact 

 between the inner and outer whorls rapidly diminishes from 055 

 mm. at the first septum to 0'2() mm. at the seventeenth septum, and 

 thence rapidly to the straight portion which begins somewhere 

 between the twentieth and twenty-fifth septa. This surface of contact 

 may be readily traced on the inner whorls of the shell and these 

 traces are indicated in Plate IX, figs. 6, 7 and 8. In the straight 

 portion of the shell the form of cross section passes gradually from 

 a circular to an ovoidal, laterally compressed form and finally in 

 the adult into a somewhat triangular form, acute ventrally (the 

 side on which the siphuncle is located) and flattened dorsally. The 

 cross section of the shell is thus seen to be first lunate, laterally 

 elongated; then successively laterally elliptical, circular, laterally 

 compressed, and finally somewhat triangular. These changes 

 up to the circular form take place very rapidly ; the succeeding 

 changes from the circular form to the triangular form arc very 

 gradual. In this respect the shell shows very rapid development in 

 the spiral stage and gradual development on quite new lines in the 

 10 




138 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



straight stage. It is also to be noted in this connection that some 

 other species of Bacnlites, as B. ovatus Say, B. anceps Lam., have a 

 circular or ovate cross section in the adult stage,and probably pass 

 through the same changes as the species under discussion in their 

 earlier stages up to the circular cross section but retain this circular 

 or ovate cross section in the adult. 



An examination of the suture lines as represented in PI. IX, fig. 

 9, will .show quite rapid development here too, but probably not more 

 than is common to all of the Ammonitida'. As is usual the form 

 of the second suture is entirely different from that of the first. 

 The ventral lobe in the second suture is well marked, the first lateral 

 saddle is here quite broad, the first lateral lobe is acute, and a por- 

 tion of the second lateral saddle is shown. The ventral lobe of the 

 third suture is a straight line on the end ; in the fourth the narrow 

 ventral saddle, which is located over the siphuncle, first appears. 

 The lateral lobes of the third suture are rounded instead of acute as 

 in the second suture and in each succeeding suture the lobes and 

 saddles become more rounded and deeper until they are deeper 

 than broad. During this period of its development the shell may 

 ]>e said to be in the (ioniatite stage which persists throughout the 

 spiral shell and as far as about the 30th septum, when the second- 

 ary lobes begin to appear at the ends of the lateral saddles and the 

 shell passes into what might be called the Ceratite stage. This 

 Ceratite stage then rapidly gives place to the typical Ammonite stage 

 in which both the lateral lobes and saddles become divided at their 

 ends. PI. IX, fig. 9, illustrates the development of the suture 

 from the initial to the Goniatite stage. Its development in the Cera- 

 tite and Ammonite stages has been illustrated in my former com- 

 munication on this species already referred to above. The comple- 

 tion of the second lateral lobe and dorsal saddle has probably already 

 taken place on the surface of contact between the protoconch and 

 the first whorl as early as the second suture, though it does 

 not appear on the free surface until the sixth suture has 

 been reached. Owing to the difficulty of handling these exceed- 

 ingly minute and friable pieces of the shell broken off in displaying 

 the inner whorls and the protoconch no attempt has been made to 

 observe the form of suture on this surface of contact between the 

 inner aud outer whorls, but from examining the front view of the 

 septa as they were successively exposed, it was found that the main 

 features of the lobes aud .saddles first develop on this surface of con- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



tact and then appear froui the inner side of the whorl ou the 

 free outer surface, being exposed by the uncoiling of the shell. The 

 total number of main lobes and saddles of the adult shell is ap- 

 parently developed at the second septum, and the further develop- 

 ment of the suture consists in the formation of secondary lobes and 

 saddles, appearing as complexities of the primary or liiain ones. Of 

 these secondary folds of the suture, the first to appear is the narrow 

 ventral saddle at the fourth suture, and probably also the narrow 

 dorsal lobe is formed but little later, for both are about equally well 

 marked when the shell passes into the straight form. The fact that 

 the adult number of lobes is developed at the second septum is an 

 evidence of cataplastic development, the adult number of lobes in 

 the suture being usually developed at a much later stage in the 

 normal coiled Ammonites. But in other uncoiled and degenerate 

 forms the nsepionic lobes are retained throughout their development 

 and are not added to in the adult stages. 



The outer nacreous shell when preserved is found to be marked 

 by minute tuberculations of irregular shape; these in turn give 

 place to the parallel curved lines seen in the adult shell. These 

 parallel lines first appear about the fourteenth septum, and they 

 soon completely obscure the tuberculation. Between the first and 

 second sutures there is apparently an interruption in the growth of the 

 shell, appearing as a line resembling a suture line, PI. IX, fig. 

 10. This line seems to be slightly raised above the general shell sub- 

 stance; it extends over the end of the ventral lobe of the second 

 suture and back in a .simple curve to near the lateral ends of the 

 first suture. In breaking away the nacreous shell substance to 

 show the sutures, the break nearly always follows this line, leaving 

 the protoconch covered by the original shell. Over the area thus 

 left of the original shell substance the tuberculations are found to 

 be more circular in outline and closer together than in the succeeding 

 portions of the shell. It is believed that the jiortion of the shell thus 

 bounded represents the original embryonic chamber, or protoconch 

 PI. IX, fig. 5, which would thus extend beyond the point where the 

 first septum was subsequently developed. A section in the plane of 

 the spiral, but not quite median, PI. IX, fig. 11, showed the shell 

 to be composed of successively deposited layers, and the first of these 

 was seen to extend a short distance beyond the first septum, thus 

 tending to confirm the above belief. It thus seems probable that 

 the outer limit of the protoconch lies between the first and second 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1 >'92. 



septa, as shoAvn in PI. IX, fig. 10. The edge of this supposed em- 

 bryonic shell is seen to be finely crenate, but not regularly so, the 

 erenatures being larger in some parts than in others. On breaking 

 away the outer shell of the protoconch this line still persists and it 

 might readily be mistaken for a suture line, if it did not overlap 

 the lobe of the second suture. The section of the shell in the plane 

 of the spiral above referred to shows that there is no septum at this 

 point, but there is apparently a slight thickening of the shell sub- 

 stance. 



The protoconch, as seen in this section in the plane of the spiral, 

 PL IX, fig. 11, is quite large and nearly circular, and of the gen- 

 eral form common to all of the Ammonoidea. The section not being 

 quite median the siphuncle is not shown, and the septa do not present 

 exactly the same form as they would in a median section. Only 

 one such section was ground on account of scarcity of material to 

 work on, but this one shows the structure to be that of the Ammon- 

 oidea in general. The septa were equally spaced, or nearly so, up 

 to the twelfth, from which point they are successively more widely 

 spaced. It is to be noted that at about this point the lateral con- 

 traction of the shell ceases and the gradual increase in lateral 

 diameter begins, apparently indicating a change in the conditions 

 of the life of the animal. 



After considerable investigation I have been unable as yet to 

 trace the phylogeny of this species. A careful examination of the 

 development of the shell in the earlier stages of Scaphites conradi 

 Morton, a form associated with the young of Baculites in this same 

 material, showed that the Scaphites must have been derived from a 

 totally diiferent stock, and cannot be related to Baculites. Nor do the 

 adult suture lines of the two forms show much resemblance to each 

 other. An interesting point was developed, however, in the study of 

 the young of the Scaphites, which tends to confirm my observation 

 on the extent of the first embryonic shell as shown in PI. IX, fig. 

 5. A very successful median section of Scaphites conradi in the plane 

 of the spiral showed a thickening of the shell at the termination of 

 the first layer, Avhich is between the first and second septa as in 

 Baculites, this thickening indicating an interruption in the growth 

 of the shell such as might be expected on the emerging of the young 

 from the egg. But this correspondence in the extent of the embry- 

 onic shell does not indicate a relation between the two forms, it 

 being a character probably common to all Ammonites. Indeed, 




1892.] NATURAL SCIE^X•ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



judging from the adult characters alone, this Baculites is luuch 

 more closely related to the forms grouped under the genus Ancy- 

 loceras, and as far as the young of Ancyloceras has been described 

 it seems to be closely related to Baculites. On comparing the adult 

 .sutures of B. compressus with Ancyloceras jenneyi Whitf., the simi- 

 larity is very marked. Lack of suitable material has prevented 

 my examining the young of Ancyloceras, but I would suggest 

 tliat to the genera Ancyloceras, Crioeeras, and related forms with 

 completely separate whorls we are to look for the nearest relatives 

 of Baculites. These forms, like Baculites, have become uncoiled at 

 a very early stage ; their adult sutures are very similar, and the 

 main difterence lies in the degree of straightening of the shell. 

 Indeed in Baculites the shell is not strictly rectilinear but there is 

 usually a slight curvature towards the dorsal side. While then the 

 relations of this form are still in doubt, it is hoped that the facts 

 presented in this paper may go far towards unravelling the i)hy- 

 logeny of Baculites. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX. 



Young of Baculites compressus Siy, xlit. 

 Proioconch seen from above, x45. 

 Protoconch front view, x45. 

 ProtocoMch side view, x45. 



Embryonic shell of first ntepionic stage, side view, x45. This is proba- 

 bly the shell possessed by the animal on leaving the egg. 

 Fig. 6. Front view at the seventeenth septum, showing cross sccuon of the 

 whorl, x25. In this and the two succeeding figures the dotted 

 lines indicate the extent of the surface of contact between this 

 portion of ihe shell and the succeeding whorl. 

 Fig. 7. Front view at thirteenth septum, x2o. 

 Fig. 8. Front view at fourth septum, xii5. 

 Fig. 9. The first six suture lines, x3o. 

 Fig. 10. Side view of protoconch and first six septa, showing outline of the first 



naepionic stage, x40. 

 Fig. 11. Cross section of shell in the plane of the spiral showing two septa and 

 the imbricated layers of growth, xlOO. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. . 



A NEW SPECIES OF PYCNOGONUM FROM CALIFORNIA. 

 BY J. E. IVES. 



In a collection of Crustaceans and Echinoderms from !^an 

 Diego, California, recently sent to me for determination by Mr. 

 Frederick Stearns of Detroit, there is an apparently undescribed 

 species of Pyaiogomim. It is of especial interest owing to the fact 

 that only a single species belonging to the group of the Pantopoda 

 has been described from the Pacific Coast of North America.' 

 Although only two species are thus now known from the Wcf^t 

 Coast it is probable that it will be found in the future that a number 

 of species exist on these shores. Professor Edmund B. Wilson' has 

 enumerated fifteen species from the New England Avaters, and it is 

 possible that as many may be found upon the Pacific Coast. 



Five specimens were sent by Mr. Stearns. As none of them 

 possess ovigerous legs I presume tbey are all females. 



The species has been named after the collector. To the liberality 

 of the same gentleman I am indebted for the preparation for publi- 

 cation of the accompanying plate. 



The species may be characterized as follows : 



Pycnogonum Stearnsi n. sp. 



Body broad and flat. Lateral processes Avith scarcely any inter- 

 val between them. 



Proboscis sub-cylindrical, slightly swollen in its anterior half, but 

 contracting somewhat at its extremity, about one-third the total 

 length of the body. 



Each cephalo- thoracic segment with a prominent tubercle dorsally 

 in the median line on the posterior border and a somewhat smaller 

 tubercle on the outer edge of each lateral process; first segment 

 about two-thirds of the length of the proboscis, with a not very 

 broad, slightly constricted neck ; second, third and fourth segments 

 respectively equal to about two-thirds of the length of the first ; 

 posterior borders of the segments slightly elevated. 



Oculiferous tubercle bluntly conical; eyes black, small, nearly 

 equally spaced ; the posterior pair slightly further ajiart than the 

 anterior pair. 



'^ Ammothea lougicaudaia Stimpson, from Puget Sound, (Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1864, p. 159.) 



2 Report U. S. Comm. of Fish and Fisheries 1878 (ISSd.) 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCE.^ OF PHILADELrillA. 148 



Abdomen clavate, truncated at its extremity, slightly swollen in 

 the middle. 



Legs stout ; first or basal joint broad, rather broader antero-pos- 

 teriorly than the lateral processes of the segments, with the appear- 

 ance of a dorsal notch on its outer edge due to the close approxima- 

 tion of two dorsal tubercles; second joint rather smaller than the 

 first ; third rather smaller than the second ; the three joints together 

 in the third ambulatory leg about as long as the proboscis ; fourth 

 strongly developed, about two-thirds of the length of the proboscis 

 proximal half of the ventral surface considerably swollen, and a 

 single rather weakly developed dorsal tubercle at its distal extrem- 

 ity ; fifth about equal in length to the fourth, but more slender ; 

 sixth rather shorter than the fifth ; seventh very short, sub-triangu- 

 lar ; eighth about as long as the sixth ; ninth about two-fifths of the 

 eighth. Fifth, sixth and eighth joints without tubercles ; two or 

 three bristles upon the distal dorsal surface of the sixth ; a few fine 

 hairs upon the ventral surface of the seventh, and a few bristles 

 upon ventral surface of the eighth. No auxiliary claws. 



Color in alcohol, yellowish-brown. 



Length of body of the largest of the five specimens, from the ex- 

 tremity of the proboscis to the extremity of the abdomen, 6 mm. 



Three of the type specimens have been given by Mr. Stearns to 

 the museum of the Academy and two of them are in his own col- 

 lection. 



This species appears to be mostly nearly allied to Pycnogonnm 

 littorale Strom, differing from it among other characters, however, 

 markedly in the shape of the proboscis, which in the latter species is 

 conical, and in Pycnogonnm Stearnsi sub-cylindrical. 



A list of the species o? Pycnogonnm hitherto known is appended.' 



P. littorale Slrom. 



Coasts of the North Atlantic ocean and adjacent seas.^ 



^In this list Astridiiim (^Pycnogotiwn) orientale Dana, from Balabac Strait (U. 

 S. Expl. Exped., vol. xiii, p. 1391, pi. 96, figs. 2 a, b, c,) has not been included, 

 as it probably represents a distinct genus. 



^Philippi's (Archiv. f. Naturg., 1843, ix Jahrg. p. 17o) record of this species from 

 Naples I consider to be exceedingly doubtful, as Professor Dohrn did not find it 

 there. Philippi probably mistook one of the two species described from that place 

 by Professor Dohrn for this species. I am also very skeptical in regard to the 

 species described under this name from Ckili by Nicolel (Gay's Historia fisica y 

 politicade Chili, Zool., T. Ill, p. 308; Atlas, pi. IV, fig. 8). If a species of 

 Pycnogonum is found on the coast of Chili it is almost absolutely certain that it 

 is not P. littorale. If the figure given by Nicolet is correct, it must be a species 

 distinct from P. littorale. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



. Var tenue Slater (Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. vol. Ill, p. 283). 



Japan. 

 P. australe Grube (Jahresb. der scliles. Ges. f. vaterl. Cultur, 1869, p. 54.) 



Australia. 

 P. nodidosutn Dohrn (Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Xeapel, III, pp. 203-207, 



Taf. XVI, Fig. 1-3, 1881). 



Mediterranean (Naples). 

 P.pusilhim Dohrn (Op. cit. pp. 207-210, Taf. XVI. Fig. 4-8). 



Mediterranean (Naples.) 

 P. crassirostre Sars (Den Norske Nordliavs-E.xpedition, XX, pp. 12-14, 1891.) 



Norwegian Coast, Iceland. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE X. 



Fig. 1. Pycnogonnm Steanisi, n. sp., dorsal surface, much enlarged. 

 Fig. 2. Right side of the trunk. 

 Fig. 3. Ventral surface of the trunk. 



Fig. 4. Postero-dorsal surface of the third ambulatory leg on the left side, 

 much more enlarged. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



BIRDS COLLECTED BY THE WEST GREENLAND EXPEDITION. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



The collection of birds herein described was obtained June 26 to 

 August 11, 1891, by the West Greenland Expedition under com- 

 mand of Prof. Angelo Heilprin. The specimens were collected by 

 Dr. William E. Hughes, Ornithologist of the Expedition, and Dr. 

 Benjamin Sharp, Zoologist-in-Charge, the principal localities w^iere 

 collecting was carried on being Disco Island, Duck Island (Lat. 

 73° 57' N.), Melville Bay, Cape York, and McCormick Bay (Lat. 

 77° 43' K.). 



Twenty-one species are represented in the Greenland collection 

 which numbers 147 specimens and there are in addition 16 speci- 

 mens obtained at Sydney, Nova Scotia, Gulf of St. Lawrence and 

 Strait of Belle Isle. 



jMost of the birds collected were in full breeding plumage and 

 were undoubtedly on their breeding grounds. In the following list 

 I have given the results of careful measurements of all the speci- 

 mens, and notes in regard to peculiarities of plumage, etc. 



1. Cepphus grylle ;L). Black Guillemot. 



Only one specim.m of this bird was procured, a male shot on the 

 Waigat, Disco Island, August 8. The wing measures 6'50 inches 

 and the culmen 1"44 inches. 



2. Cepphus mandtii (Lieht) Mandt's Guillemot, 



Specimens of Mandt's Guillemot were collected in Melville and 

 McCormick Bays and the series obtained shows considerable varia- 

 tion in plumage. One is uniform black while the others are some- 

 what speckled with white feathers below and have many of the 

 feathers of the interscapular region tipped with white. The white 

 wing coverts in these specimens have distinct black tips and some 

 of them are slightly dusky at the extreme base. These mottled 

 birds are possibly one or two years old and the uniform black 

 garb may not be acquired for several years. 



Three nestlings, measuring about six inches in length, are in the 

 collection. They are covered with long and very soft dull black 

 down. The bills have a small white conical projection near the 

 extremity of the uj)2)er mandible. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The feet of the adults were bright red in life, while those of the 



youug were black. 



Three adult females measure as follows :' 



Acad. Collec. 

 No. 26,898 

 26,899 

 26,900 



3. TJria lomvia iLinn). BriinnichV Mune. 



Four immature specimens of this species taken in the Strait of 

 Belle Isle, June 15, measure as follows: 



.Acad. Collec. Length (in flesh.) Wing. Culmen. 



No. 26,887 1.5-37 ins. 825 ins. 1 44 ins 



26.888 16 85 8-00 1-46 



26 889 8-50 147 



26 890 8-25 1-32 



Two adult females in breeding plumage taken in Melville Bay, 

 July 7 and 13 are a.s follows : 



Acad. Collec. Length (in flesh.) Wine. Culmen. 



No. 26.891 16-75 ins. 8-35"ins. 1-40 ins. 



26,892 15-37 790 138 



4. Alle alle (Linn). LiUle Auk, Dovekie. 



A series of forty-seven Little Auks is contained in the collection, 

 most of which were shot off Cape York, July 22 and 23. The birds 

 are all in full breeding plumage and show scarcely any variations 

 in markings. 



Measurements of forty specimens (19 males and 21 females) give 

 the following results : 



Males 



Females. 



5. Stercorarius pomarinus (Temm.) Pomarine .Taeger. 



One specimen was shot on the Waigat, Disco, Aug. 7. The 

 measurements are as follows: Wing 18'75 inches. Culmen 1-63 

 inches. Tail 6 inches. 



6. Stercorarius parasiticus (Linn). Parasitic Jneger. 



This species was not noticed by the Expedition, but a dried skin 

 was procured from the natives at Godhaven which seems referable 



'Ail measurements of "length" were taken in the flesh by Dr. Hughes, to 

 whom I am indebted for them. The other measurements were made from the 

 dried skins, the length of culmen being from its extreme base to tip of upper 

 mandible unless otherwise stated. All dimensions are in inches and hundredths. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 147 



to it. The bill is much lieavier than any of the specimens of 

 S. longicaudus, the plumage above is decidedly more sooty and the 

 tarsi are entirely uniform in color with the feet. The two species 

 are, hoAvever, very difficult to separate owing to the great amount 

 of individual variation which they exhibit. 



The specimen of S. parasiticus measures as follows: Wing 

 12-85 inches. Culmen 1-27 inches. Tail 8*05 inches. 



7. Stercorarius longicaudus Vieill. Long-tailed Jaeger. 



The specimens of Long-tailed Jaegers, all of which were collected 

 July 16 in Melville Bay, show great variation in plumage and no 

 two in the series of seven are exactly alike. All have the tarsi 

 blue-gray strongly contrasted with the black feet, though the light 

 color sometimes terminates above the small hind toe and sometimes 

 extends below it to the upper part of the foot. 



No. 26,909, (Acad. Coll.), female, appears to be most typical of 

 the adult bird. The plumage in this specimen is nowhere barred or 

 mottled ; the throat and breast are pure white passing gradually 

 into slate gray about the middle of the abdomen, and this color 

 becomes darker on the under tail coverts. On the sides of the 

 breast the gray reaches forward to the shoulders, Avhile the under 

 wing coverts are blackish slate. The back is slate gray, darker on 

 the wings ; the primaries and tail are black. 



In No. 26,905, female, the gray reaches farther up on the breast 

 and the central tail feathers are not so long. 



In No. 26,904, female, (dusky phase ?) the whole lower surface is 

 suffused with sooty gray, though this color is not uniform, as there 

 are a considerable number of white feathers scattered over the 

 breast. The upper surface is mottled with slate-gray and dusky 

 feathers. The under tail coverts and flanks are transversely barred 

 with white but the under wing coverts are plain dark slate. 



No. 26,903, female, shows distinct traces of dark transverse bars 

 over the lower breast and abdomen, and has dark shaft lines to the 

 feathers of the throat. Most of the under tail coverts are barred 

 with white and the under wing coverts are barred and mottled. 



No. 26,907, male, is similar but has the breast pure white while 

 the barrings on the under wing and tail coverts, sides and flanks 

 are very distinct. The throat is very strongly marked with dusky 

 shaft stripes while many of the feathers of the back show trans- 

 verse bars of white. 




148 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Other specimeus are like the mature white-breasted birds but 

 still have the under wing coverts and axillaries barred. 



As none of the specimens above described were birds of the year 

 it is reasonable to suppose that it takes at least two years for the 

 species to acquire the full adult plumage. The great variety of 

 coloration exhibited by these Jaegers makes it difficult to arrange 

 them in any order which will show the steps in the transition from 

 young to old. It seems to me most probable that the normal 

 plumage of the bird of one year is shown by No. 26,907, while the 

 young "bird of the year" doubtless shows still more barring, per- 

 haps even on the breast. As this bird approaches the adult stage 

 (i. e. No. 26,909) the barrings are gradually replaced by uniform 

 slate gray. 



The specimen No. 26,904 may, I think, represent a partial dusky 

 phase as the suffusion of sooty feathers on the under surface is very 

 decided, much more so than in any of the young birds, with which 

 I at first placed it. The dusky feathers moreover, do not form 

 transverse bands as in the young birds and the under wing coverts 

 are uniform slate colored like those of the adults. The under tail 

 coverts are, however, still barred with white. 



If this really represents a dusky phase, it seems to be the first 

 recoi'ded instance of it in this species, though it occurs regularly in 

 the closely related S. parasiticus. 



If, however, we consider this as a young bird it would indicate 

 that the adult plumage is assumed very differently by different 

 individuals, as there is another specimen which has not a trace of 

 dusky marks on the breast but which has the under wing coverts 

 strongly barred. 



The measurements of the specimens are as follows : 



Aca<]. Col lee. 

 No. 2t),90o female 



2H,903 

 26,9U2 

 26,9()4 

 2H,906 

 2H.9()9 

 26,907 male 



8. Gavia alba (Gunn.) Ivory tJull. 



A series of eight males of this beautiful species was collected in 

 Melville Bay, July 6 to 17. Some of the specimens, probably 

 younger birds, have dusky tips to the primary coverts. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



The measurements of the series give the following results: 



9. Rissa tridactyla (Linn). Kittiwake. 



Two specimens of Kittiwake were collected July 16, in Melville 

 Bay, Lat. 75° 09' N. They measured as follows: 



Acad. Collec. Length (in flesh.) Wing. Culmen. 



No. 26,022 16-75 ins. 12-10 ins. l-3o ins. 



26,923 17-00 11-75 139 



10. Larus glaucus Brunn. Gloucous (!ull. 

 One specimen shot at Disco Island. 



11. Fulmarus glacialis (Linn.) Fulmar. 



Eight Fulmars are in the collection, all obtained in INIelville 

 Bay, July 7 to 1-3. Five are in the white phase of plumage and 

 three in the gray phase. They all seem to be typical F. glacialis, 

 the measurements being as follows : 



12. Somateria mollissima borealis Brehm. Greenland Eider. 



Five male Eider Ducks and an equal number of females were 

 collected at Duck Island, Lat. 73° 57' N., July 2. They appear to 

 be referable to S. mollissima borealis Brehm, but the measurements 

 of the bill are rather different from those given in Ridgway's 

 Manual. In the key to species on j)age 109 this race is placed in a 

 division with the true S. mollissima headed "Distance from anterior 

 point of loral feathering to extremity of naked angle on side of 

 forehead much greater than from same point to lip of upper 

 mandible." In the present series, however, the reverse is the case 

 or else the two measurements are about equal. As these specimens 

 were taken in the upper part of Baffin Bay, they represent the 

 extreme northwestern form of the S. mollissima stock and are 

 farthest removed geographically from typical S. mollissi^na. 



It is, therefore, not surprising that they should exhibit the greatest 

 differences from the typical S. mollissima and it is probable that 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



specimens from farther south will be found to approach true S. mol- 

 lissima in the dimensions of the bill as well as in other respects, in 

 proportion as their breeding range approaches that of the latter 

 race. 

 The measurements of the five breeding males are as follows: 



13. Somateria spectabilis (Linn. I King Eider. 



Three specimens obtained in the vicinity of Disco, June 26 and 

 28, and August 7. 



14. Phalaropus lobatus (Linn.) Northern Phalarope. 



Three specimens were jirocured at Disco Island, June 28 and 29, 

 and Aug. 11. 



15. Tringo maritima Brunn. Purple Sandpiper. 



One specimen was shot at Duck Island, Jidy 2, and four more at 

 Disco, August 9 to 11. 



16. Aegialitis hiaticula (Linn.) Ring Plover. 



Specimens were procured at Disco and Godhaven. 

 Measurements of some of the specimens are us follows: 



Disco 



17. Lagopus rupestris reinhardti (Brehm.) Greenland Ptarmigan. 



A female and three young nearly full grown were collected at 

 Disco Islaud, July 8, ana two adult males were obtained at the 

 same place, August 7. All the specimens are in the summer 

 plumage though one ot the males shows a few white feathers on the 

 upper breast. 



18. Falco rusticolus gyrfalco (Linn.) Gyrfalcon. 



One specimen obtained from the natives at Disco. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



19. Plectrophenax nivalis (Linn.) Snow Bunting. 



There is a series of twelve Suow Buntings in the collection, 

 including breeding males and females, moulting specimens, and 

 young in the first plumage. Two young birds were collected at 

 McCormick Bay, July 29, an adult male at Upernavik, July 1 

 and the rest at Disco, June 28 and 29 and August 11. 



The breeding birds show very distinctly the process of moulting 

 by the wearing away of the brown tips of the feathers. All the 

 feathers of the back are very much pointed in the middle and cut 

 away or concave on the sides, all the rusty borders which charac- 

 terize the winter specimens being worn off. Some specimens, how- 

 ever, show ragged remains of these borders on the coverts and 

 tertials. 



Two young birds of the year from McCormick Bay are strongly 

 tinged with buff on the lower back and rump as well as on the 

 under surface, while a young bird from Disco is much grayer. 



Adult birds collected August 11 at Disco are all well advanced 

 in their moult and the lower mandible is yellow instead of black as 

 in the breeding bird. The brown edgings to the feathers are rich 

 chocolate, very distinct from the faded buff brown of winter 

 examples from Pennsylvania. 



It is interesting to note that all but one of the adult birds 

 collected at Disco, August 11, have the wing and tail feathers com- 

 pletely grown and have about half the other feathers replaced by 

 the brown edged plumage, while birds of the year taken at the 

 same time and place have the Aving feathers only partly grown and 

 have not begun to moult elsewhere. This fact may be of interest to 

 students of bird migration as it shows that the old birds were at 

 least ready for the southern journey before the young. 



The measurements of the breeding birds are as follows: 



20. Calcarius lapponicus (Linn.) Lapland Longspur. 



A series of eight Longspurs was procured at Disco, June 28 and 

 29 and August 11. Those collected on the last date had advanced 

 in their moult even farther than the Snow Buntings. The adults 

 were in complete winter garb with the exception of the tail feathers 

 some of which were not quite fully grown. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892L 



The bills of the breeding males are bright yellow tipped with 



black. The measurements of three male specimens procured at 



Disco, July 28 and 29 are as follows : 



Acad. Collec. Wing. Culmen. 



No. 26,970 3-7.5 ins. -51 in. 



26.971 3-70 -51 



26.972 3-78 ol 



21. Saxicola oenanthe (Linn.) Wheatear. 



One male bird procured at Disco, Aug. 11, has just completed its 

 moult. The wing measures 4*18 inches and the culmen "oS. 



The species obtained before the expedition reached Greenland 

 were as follows : 



At Sydney, Nova Scotia, Empidonax flaviventris Baird., Corvus 

 americanus Aud., Ammodramus sandwichensis savanna (Wils.),. 

 Melospiza fasciata (Gm.), Melospiza georgiana (Lath.), Chelidon 

 erythrogasier (Bodd.), Setophaga r\diciUa (Linn) and Merula 

 migratoria (Linn). 



In the Gulf of St. Lawrence the following species came on board 

 the vessel : Pinicola enucleator (Linn), and Dendroica virens 

 (Gra.). 



There were also several specimens of Uria lomvia (Linn.),, 

 secured in the Strait of Belle Isle. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 153 



March 1. 

 Rev, H. C. McCooK, D. D., Vice-President, in the cliair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



The death of Wm. H. Dougherty, a member, March 1, 1892, 

 was announced. 



March 8. 

 The President, General Isaac J. AVistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



A yew Species of Pachy chillis. — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited and 

 described a species of fresh-water snail, as follows : 



Pachychilus (polygonatus Lea? var.) Rovirosai. 



Shell large and heavy, elevated conical, the lateral outlines 

 straight above, modified by the slight convexity of the whorls below. 

 Spire more or less truncated at tip, half-grown specimens, PI. VIII, 

 fig. 9, possessing 8 remaining whorls ; adults, PI. VIII, fig. 10, 

 having one or two whorls less. 



Surface most minutely spirally striated, the stride visible only 

 under a lens. Young and half-grown specimens are otherwise 

 smooth, except for very slight spiral lirje toward the base. When 

 a little more than half-grown, there appear coarse, oblique, curved 

 wave-like folds on the body-whorl, extending to the periphery but 

 not below it. Simultaneously Avitli these undulations, begin s[)iial 

 spaced lira? crossing them, w^iich are slightly more prominent on 

 the crests of the waves. This sculpture continues upon all subse- 

 quent volutions. The last volution of an adult specimen is slightly 

 compressed below the suture, then quite convex. It has ten waves, 

 and about nine spiral lirre, but the number of these last is quite 

 variable on different specimens. 



The color is olive in young, blackish in old examples ; interior of 

 the mouth white, maculated with brown at the position of the 

 periphery and folds. This marking is also seen on the eroded spire 

 in some specimens. 



Aperture ovate, acute above, slightly exceeding one-third the 

 total length of the shell. Columella \vhite, regularly arcuate, 

 spreading in a brown-tinted callus. 



Dimensions. An adult specimen measures: Alt. 78, diain. 28 

 mm. Aperture, alt. 25, width 18 mm. A younger specimen 

 measures : Alt. 55, diam. 20 mm. Aperture, alt. 20, diam. 121 mm. 



Collected from a spring which gushes from the western brow of 

 the little ridge of the Limon, State of Tabasco, ^Vfexico, by Prof. 

 Jose N. Rovirosa. 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



This seeing to be a very distinct s|>ecies when compared with the 

 typical forms of the described Mexican Pachychili ; but these, like 

 all Melanians, are so variable that it is scarcely desirable to mul- 

 tiply species until fuller collections are made. It is here associated 

 ■with Lea's Melania polygonata because that species is the first 

 described of the particular group of forms to which the present 

 species or variety belongs. 



March 15. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirtv-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Greenland Lepidoptera,'' by Henry Skinner, 

 M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of Dr. Sereno Watson, a correspondent, March 9, 

 aged sixty-six years having been announced, the following preamble 

 and resolutions received from the Botanical Section, were adopted : — 



Whereas — The Botanical Section of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia having learned with profound regret the 

 death of Dr. Sereno Watson of Cambridge, ^lass., and being desirous 

 of placing on record its sense of this great loss to Botanical Science 

 throughout the world : — 



Resolved — That we recognize the invaluable results of his 

 work in the dissemination of a knowledge of American Botany to 

 which he has given his undivided attention for many years, and 

 which has made his name famous wherever the study of plant life 

 is cultivated. 



Resolved — That a copy of this minute be forwarded to the 

 President of Harvard University and to the Gray Herbarium 

 at Cambridge with which he was so long associated, and that the 

 same be offered for publication in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



March 22. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty-eight persons present. 

 The deaths of the following members were announced : — 



Thomas Hockley, March 12, John ^McLaughlin, March 17, and 

 Andrew J. Parker. M. D., March 18. 




1892.] natural sciexces of philadelphia. 155 



March 29. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Forty-four })ersous present. 



A paper entitled " On the Anatomy of Sagda, Cysticopsis, 

 ^gista and Dentellaria," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for 

 publication. 



The following were elected membei-s : — 



General John ^Slarkoe, H. G. Bryant, Frank Woodbury, M. D., 

 Daniel Allen Knight, Jr., Thomas AVistar, M. D., Miss Lucy 

 Langdon Williams and Miss Jean Fraley Hallowell. 



Prof. Carl Glaus of Vienna and Frederick Stearns of Detroit, 

 Mich., were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



GREENLAND LEPIDOPTERA. 

 BY HENRY SKINNER, M. D. AND LEVI W. MENGEL. 



Four hundred and forty-four insects were taken by the expedition 

 sent to Greenland by the Academy in the summer of 1891. 

 They were divided among the different orders as follows: Hymen- 

 optera 25 specimens, Coleoptera 4 specimens, Lepidoptera Rho- 

 palocera 143 specimens and Heterocera 143. They were captured 

 by Levi W. Mengel, entomologist to the expedition and Dr. W. E. 

 Hughes, ornithologist. The specimens are all from the West Coast 

 and were taken at three principal localities: McCormick Bay, 

 Herbert Island and Disco. 



RHOPALOCERA. 



PIERIDJE. 



Colias hecla Lef. 



Fairly common, although few of the specimens were quite perfect. 

 Both sexes were represented. There was one beautiful specimen of 

 the white form of the female, Avhich seems to occur in most if not 

 all the species in the genus. Mr. T. D. A. Cockerell has suggested 

 that all these forms of the female m the different species be called 

 pallida, and we think the suggestion a good one. Heda, when at rest 

 on the herbage with its wings over its back and its green undersides 

 showing, is said to mimic its surroundings in a remarkable 

 manner. This Greenland heda is what My. M'Lachlan called var. 

 gladulis, to distinguish it from the Lapland form and those found 

 further south .^ 



Colias hecla pallida n. var. 9 Ent. News, Vol. 3, No. 3, jil. 2, fig. 4. 



Expands 40 mm. Upper side: Superiors are the same in macu- 

 lation as in the yellow or normal female, with the exception that there 

 are but two very minute cream-colored dashes on the wide, black 

 marginal border. The inner two-thirds of the wing is cream color 

 with a pinkish tint, obscured by gray near the base. Inferiors 

 with same maculation as normal female but in color totally different. 

 The spot at the outer end of cell is cream color, and the base of the 

 wing is a steel gray; from this outward to the black marginal 

 border is dark olive-green obscured with gray. Inside of the mar- 



1 Proc. Linn. Soc. Lond. Vol. 14, p. 108. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



ginal border the row of spots is obscure cream color. Fringes of all 

 the wings milk white. Undersides : Superiors nearly the same color 

 and maculation as above but with a yellow tinge. Inferiors light 

 olive-green dusted with gray. This is very different from the rich 

 grass-green underside of the normal form. The spot in the cell has 

 less red around it and is more silvery than in the yellow female. 

 It would more properly be called the dimorphic white .female form 

 and is probably the prettiest form of American Colias. 

 Lycaena aquilio Boisd. 

 Three specimens. 



NYMPHALIDJE. 

 Argynnis chariclea Schneid. 



Quite abundant and many of them in good condition. Among 

 them were a few specimens of what JNIr. M'Lachlan called var. 

 obscurata (Proc. Linn. Soc. Vol. 14, p. 109). This form was figured 

 in Ent. News, Vol. 3, pt. 3, pi. 2, figs. 9, 10. Mr. jM'Lachlan, in the 

 paper above referred to, says : " Under this headC (chariclea) I feel 

 compelled to group 20 examples. Never before have I been so 

 ])erplexed over a series of an insect of which I had made a serious 

 study. I may safely say that no two of the twenty individuals are 

 precisely alike. It would be utterly useless to attempt to describe 

 the forms ; the only thing that could be of service would be to give 

 colored figures of both sides of nearly every example." If we had 

 had a few specimens representing the extremes of variation in this 

 species we would probably have described two or three new species, 

 but having a good series with all the mutations represented we van 

 only conscientiously call them A. chariclea. This is a case where 

 breeding a large number from the eggs of several known females would 

 solve the problem so far as the examples of a given area are con- 

 cerned, but we think some entomologists attach too much importance 

 to this kind of proof in other directions. A thousand specimens 

 of the Greenland form of A. chariclea might be bred without find- 

 ing one that agreed with the European form ; yet this would be no 

 proof of their being valid species if all their geographical inter- 

 grades could be found. This species was stated by Doctor Hughes 

 to also mimic its surroundings, a.s, unlike C. hecla, it rarely alighted 

 on the herbage but on the ground and rocks which it more nearly 

 resembles in color. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



HETEROCERA. 



BOMBYCID^. 



Dasychira Groenlandica Wocke, Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarfahrt, Bd. 2, Abth. I, p. 

 4(19. Ent. News Vol. 3, No. 3, pi. 2, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



This species was described in 1874 and so far as we know has 

 never appeared in any of our American lists. An allied species, 

 Dasycliira Rossii, has improperl}' been placed in the genus Laria. 

 D. Grcenlandica is of a smoky black subdiaphanous color with 

 strongly marked black neuratiou of the superiors. The female is a 

 heavy-bodied insect and in our one specimen devoid of marking. 

 There were two males which differ considerably but undoubtedly 

 belong to the same species. D. Rossii has a black border to the 

 wings entirely wanting in Grcenlandica. 



NOCTUID^. 



Plusia parilis Ilubner. 



There were two specimens of this rare and strongly marked 

 species. 

 Anarta Kicliardsoni Curtis. 



Several specimens of both sexes ; a very variable species. 

 Anarta Zetterstedi Staudinger. 



A number of specimens that present a great amount of variation, 

 some being a rich velvety black Avith the white lines strongly 

 brought out and others faintly marked. These presented as great 

 difficulties as the specimens of Argynnis, no two being exactly alike 

 and we have no doubt some entomologists would make a number of 

 species out of them, but there are no missing links in the gradations. 



Anarta Besla n. sp. 



Expands 21 mm. Upperside : Superiors gray with a yellow 

 luster, immaculate; fringes gray. Inferiors same as superiors 

 except that the fringes are white. Underside similar to the upper 

 except that there are indications of a white band crossing the center 

 of both wings from the costa of the superiors to the lower margin of 

 superiors and there is a faint lunate spot in the middle of the infe- 

 rior and one above the center of the superior. Thorax, abdomen, 

 head, etc., above and below, of a dark gray, almost black. This 

 comes near A. Zetterstedi and may be an extreme form of it. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



GEOMETRID^. 



Glaucopteryx polata Ilubn. 

 Glaucopteryx Sabinii Curt. 

 Glaucopteryx immaculata n. sp. 



Expands 22 mm. Upperside : Superiors shining silky gray; 

 immaculate. Inferiors immaculate and several shades lighter in 

 color than the superiors. Underside of all wings of a uniform 

 gray of about the same shade as the upperside of inferiors. Anten- 

 nae pectinated. The remaining portion of the insect is black or 

 very dark gray. Mr. M'Lachlan refers to this as a form of G. Sabinii, 

 but even if it proves to be such, it deserves a name as all varieties 

 do when one cannot say at once, on inspection, what the species is. 

 The most noticeable fact about the Greenland Lepidoptera is their 

 great variability, which is probably owing to the short season in 

 which they live, and perhaps also to their uncertain appearance, 

 due, perhaps, to sudden changes of temperature while they are in 

 the larval or chrysalis condition. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTOEIES OF PLANTS, NO 7. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Ox THE Vitality of some Annual Plants. 



Prof. Theo. Holm, of the Smithsonian Institution, is the author 

 of a suggestive paper under this title.' He notes a number of spe- 

 cies generally recognized as annual which frequently furnish bien- 

 nial or perennial individuals. Such o])servations are especially use- 

 ful, for it is deviation from general rule that furnishes us with keys 

 to unlock the great treasure-box of nature's secrets. If we can .'-how 

 that annuals are not always annuals, but sometimes become peren- 

 nials, we have the opportunity to watch the process, and learn as the 

 work goes on. 



Horticulturists must have long known, without giving the matter 

 serious thought, that annuals become perennials under .some circum- 

 stances. Petunias, Gaillardias, and indeed I can think of no annual 

 plant of any kind whatever, that the horticulturist cares to preserve, 

 that he can not jireserve from cuttings when he so desires. Even in 

 the ease of those annuals which throw up only a single flower scape, 

 lie plucks off the flower head before the flower buds expand, cuts up 

 this flower stem into sections, and raises plants which will live 

 continuously for many years, if annually treated in the same way. 

 Annuals or biennials will live for many years if the flower buds are 

 plucked out as soon as they appeal-. The author of this paper has 

 seen mignonette six years old that had been treated in this man- 

 ner. Annual parts of perennial j)lants also live over when propa- 

 gated ill the same way. Perennial phlox, hollyhock and similar 

 ])lants are raised from sections of the flower stems which have had 

 their flower heads taken out a few weeks before they were cut into 

 the segments desired. 



It is worthy of remark just here, that few plants except those 

 which we distinctly recognize as ligneous, have perennial parts. 

 The potato lives only through the tubers it makes annually, and 

 even the strawberry plant will be found to be dead below the addi- 

 tion of the past year. Gladiolus, lilies, many terrestrial orchids, 

 and numerous other plants, only live over through the additions of 

 the preceding year. The older portions die after new portions have 



1 American Journal of Science, Vol. XLII, Oct., 1891. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



been formed. In brief, the power to produce offshoots or stolons is 

 really the only difference between the annual or perennial herbaceous 

 plant. 



It may now be further noted that, morphologically, there is no 

 difference between a stolon and a flower scape, — a rhizome or a 

 permanent flower stem. The strawberry is one of the best illustra- 

 tions of this. The "Bush Alpine" never makes a "runner" — all 

 that would be stolons becoming erect flower scapes. The transitions 

 between flower scapes and stolons may be seen at any time by the 

 careful observer. But the flower scape is an annual, while the 

 stolons remain over until another season. 



We may now consider the causes inducing the annual or the 

 more enduring conditions. It is now well understood that though 

 the reproductive condition of a plant is a natural outgrowth of tlie 

 vegetative, there is a certain antagonism between them. The 

 husbandman must root — prune, or take off a ring of bai'k, or practise 

 some such severe measure, before an extra vigorous tree can l)e 

 made productive. On the other hand even sound trees have been 

 led to death's door by overbearing. Annuals die from no other 

 cause than by the heavy draft on vital power through bearing seed 

 so early and profusely, Avith nothing but a single root-stock to 

 provide nutrition for the whole. 



Professor Holm, though he is not clear whether it is climate, soil, 

 cultivation or other cause, which leads the annual occasionally into 

 the perennial class, quotes Lange as showing that Carex cyperoides, 

 under normal conditions truly annual, is " able to vegetate several 

 years when it happens to live without flowering." Several years ago 

 I had a number of plants of the caraway, Carum Conii, transplanted 

 after they had commenced to push up flower stalks. As the flower 

 stalks withered, they were plucked out to the base. All the 

 plants became bushy perennials ! Profiting by the hint I have 

 some plants, with the stems annually plucked out, that are now fnur 

 years old. 



Going back to the strawberry, why does the scape die the same 

 season, and the stolons endure? Is it not that the stolons, sending 

 out roots at the end which form leaves instead of flowers, are under 

 more favorable conditions of nutrition? The scape is drawing 

 heavily on vitality Avhich the unfavorable conditions of nutrition 

 do little to sustain. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892, 



I have little doubt but that any annual may be made pereunial 

 by persistently destroying the flower buds as they appear. When 

 we see in a state of nature, some few plants survive while numbers 

 perish the season of their birth we may reasonably look for 

 some circumstances which in these plants led them to bear seeds less 

 profusely than others, or to some other condition which aided 

 the vegetative in its struggle with the reproductive forces. 



On Self-pollination in Amsonia Tabern^montana. 



To my mind the number of plants which have their flowers con- 

 structed for self-fertilization is so large, that it would seem hardly 

 worth particularizing them but for the industrious work of noting 

 the opposite characteristics which prevails in our scientific serials. 

 It seems not fair to true science that only one side of nature's story 

 should be told. This is why I record some self-fertilizing cases. 



It has been left to me to point out that only those plants which 

 have other means of persistence than by seeds, have flowers which 

 are wholly dependent on external agents for pollination, — and also 

 to show that while flowers which have arrangements for self-fertiliza- 

 tion are abundantly fertile, those which cannot make use of pollen 

 without assistance, are frequently barren, and are at a sad disadvan- 

 tage in making their way through the world. So clearly has this 

 been worked out to my mind, that when a plant is found abundantly 

 fertile, it is fair to assume that it must be arranged for self-pollina- 

 tion. In Asdepiadacea', with the large majority of the flowers 

 barren, we may theoretically assume insect agency, — with many 

 abundantly fertile Apocy7iacece, we may assume self-fertilization. 



I have already shown than the Madagascar periwinkle, Vlnca 

 rosea, with every flower fertile in American gardens, is a 

 self-fertilizer. Another of the same order, Amso7iia Tabernce- 

 montana, (the form known as A. salicifolia Pursh), is abundantly 

 fertile. I watched the flowers this season, satisfied that they would 

 be found arranged for self-pollination. The plants proved, as usual, 

 abundantly fertile. On one panicle there were twenty-nine pairs 

 of follicles that matured; there were many others that had been evi- 

 dently fertilized, but failed to reach maturity through lack of 

 nutrition. 



Showy as the blue flowers are, and we might suppose in view of 

 prevailing speculations, made so in order to be attractive to insects, 

 the arrangements are such that no insect, not even the ubiquitous 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



thrips can gain entrance to the nectary. The mouth of the tube is so 

 densely matted with hair, that Faux claiisa is the term used in the 

 description of the species by Latin authors. If a pollen- clothed 

 tongue were thrust through the mass, it would be thoroughly 

 cleaned, and in like manner the flower's own pollen would be brushed 

 back, when the insect withdrew its tongue. But a greater difficulty 

 presents itself. The capitate stigma w'ith its surrounding rim, com- 

 pletely fills the upper portion of the tube. There is no space for 

 an insect's tongue to get past the stigma. But even could this 

 rubicon be passed, a dense mass of hair presses close against the 

 style, and the most powerful insect known to the writer, could 

 hardly force a passage. The entrance of insects is completely 

 blocked. To provide for pollination, the anthers curve over and 

 rest on the stigma, and the pollen on ejection from the anthers, can 

 do no more than cover the stigma with their own pollen. 



In many plants which have flowers that are generally fertilized 

 by their own pollen, the arrangements Avill often permit of pollina- 

 tion from some other; but in the case of this ^hisow/o, nothing but 

 self-pollination is possible. 



-To those who may not have flowers for comparison, the figure of 

 this plant in " Botanical Register," Plate 151, will aid in making some 

 of the above noted points clear. 



On a special form of Cleistogamy in Polygonum acre. 



In a paper published in the Proceedings of the Academy (1889, 

 p. 59,) I pointed out that in almost all — probably in all cases, the fer- 

 tile flowers were pollinized in the bud in all the species of Po/y(7o»«m 

 that I had had the opportunity of examining: that they were really 

 cleistogamous. There are two classes of flowers in the inflorescence. 

 Many expand and are to all appearance hermaphrodite, with all 

 their sexual organs perfect, but infertile ; another class never opens, 

 but ai'e invariably fertile. 



In May, 1890, I noticed a quantity of P. acre in a swamj) in 

 Chester County, Pennsylvania, with a short and close habit. The 

 leaves were shorter and broader, and the ochrea shallower than 

 usual. Small white flowers were protruding above the sheaths, 

 and I suspected I had found a new species in the section with 

 axillary flowers. But on examining P. acre in other localities, 

 I found, in every case, flowers hidden under the ochrea from even 

 the lowest axil on the branch. It was the shallowness of the ochrea 




164 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ill the form I found, exposing the flowers, that led to the discovery. 

 Since then I have examined herbarium specimens from a very 

 wide range of territory, and find these hidden flowers always with 

 this species, and in many cases giving such a gland-like character 

 to the base of the ochrea that it is inconceivable how the production 

 of these flowers should have been overlooked so long. I gathered 

 some specimens in the streets of Washington, and showed them to 

 the members of the American Association in attendance there ; and 

 Mr. T. H. Kearney, Jr., of the University of Tennessee, has since 

 confirmed the discovery by a note in the November issue of the 

 Botanical Gazette. He found them in Knoxville, Tenn., as late as 

 Se])t. 24th. His excellent drawing, accompanying his note, shows the 

 cleistogene flowers are much closer down among the roots than I found 

 them. Mr. Kearney could find them in no other species, nor have I 

 been able to do so. A close examination of many in the large herbar- 

 ium of the Academy, gave no indications of this tendency in any 

 other species. As already noted there seems no fertile flowers in any 

 Polygonum, except from cleistogene flowers at the apex of the 

 branches. This species has them specially in the axils as well as in 

 the terminal spikes. 



In examining a large number of specimens in herbaria in connec- 

 tion with this question, it is interesting to note how often P. acre is 

 confounded Avith P. Ifydropipei'. For all the diflTerences noted in 

 our botanies, I think they are more closely related than supposed. 

 I once thought I could easily decide the differences by the seeds, 

 but I have not unfrequently found flattish seeds in P. acre, that 

 could not be distinguished from the usual flattish seeds of P. 

 Hydropiper. In forms, however, that we would certainly refer to 

 the latter species, no tendency to the axillary cleistogamous flowers 

 can be detected. 



On the direction of growth in Cryptogamic Plants. 



No one has yet been able to present an explanation of the direc- 

 tion of growth in flowering plants, that will stand the test of 

 criticism. Growth has a general upward tendency, though in the 

 same tree we have varying directions. INIany Coniferce have one 

 perfectly vertical central stem or leader, while the side branches 

 may be wholly horizontal, or at various angles uniform in each 

 species. Occasionally individuals w'ill vary from the normal line of 

 direction, and present angles wholly different from that prevailing 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHfA. 165 



in the accepted characteristic of the species. Then we have the so- 

 called fastigiate varieties, as in the Lombardy Poplar, — or in trees 

 with pendulous branches, as in many trees of gai'dens known as 

 weeping forms. 



To say that branches are geotropic or heliotropic does not teach 

 us anything, they only repeat the actual fact; nor do any of the 

 terms commonly used in mathematical or physical explanations of 

 the supposed cause. 



Some observations I have made in connection with mushrooms 

 are worthy of recording. They do nothing to elucidate the mystery, 

 but they gain for us the certainty that many partially accepted 

 conclusions are wrong, and it is always an advantage to be able to 

 limit the circle in which we have to search. 



I found a quantity of edible mushrooms growing on the sides of a 

 newly made terrace the face of which had an angle of about 34"^. 

 The stipes of the mushrooms pushed out at an exact right angle 

 with the plane of the slope ; but about midway the stipe bent 

 upwards, so that the pileus or crown of the mushroom, instead of 

 being parallel to the slope of the bank had, in a great measure, be- 

 come horizontal. As the growth of the mushroom is mainly or 

 only at night, light could have had no influence in determining this 

 direction of stipe or pileus, — nor, it will surely be conceded, could any- 

 thing connected with gravitation or the attraction of the earth. 



Recently, in a coal mine in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, at 

 some 500 feet beneath the surface, I noted that the same species of 

 Polyporus, Agaricus, and other fungi, that grow from the trunks of 

 dead trees, were here also on the wooden supports of the gangways. 

 The Agaricus pushed the pileus downward or upward just as the 

 point of growth was above or beneath a log. Just when the pileus 

 was about to expand and separate from the stipe, which was not 

 until the stipe had reached its full length, the latter would curve so 

 that the pileus would be brought into a perfectly horizontal j)osition, 

 as if the agaric were growing on a piece of level ground. No 

 special law governed the direction of the stipe. They might grow 

 horizontally for several inches from an upright log, vertically from 

 the upper side, or downward from the lower side of a horizontal 

 log. When the time came for the expansion of the cap, the already 

 grown stipe would depart from the straight line, and curve so that 

 the cap would occupy the horizontal position as we see them above 

 ground. Ifthe cap were to fully expand, or to be in any rapid 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



State of expansion when the curvature of the stipe began, we might 

 conjecture that it was some action of the pileus or cap that caused 

 the stipe's curvature, but it was evident that the departure from the 

 straight line, was nearly or quite simultaneous with the rupture of 

 the hymen, and that nothing connected with any external circum- 

 stances influencing the expansion of the pileus had anything to do 

 with the matter. 



When we consider the facts as relating to these cryptogams, and 

 the facts in connection with the various angles in the branching of 

 the same species among flowering trees it seems to be a fair inference 

 that the law which determines the direction of growth has very little, 

 if any, relation to conditions of environment. If the mystery is 

 ever solved, it will probably be found among the properties of the 

 single cell, from which the whole characteristic of the plant is 

 finally developed. 



Tricarpellary Umbellifer8. 



Dr. Lindley observes (" Vegetable Kingdom ", p. 774) " in some 

 accidental cases three carpels have been found " in Umbellifers. In 

 these days when the genesis of families is an active study, departures 

 from usual characters are of more value than when Lindley wrote. 

 It is these variations that frequently give the clue to family relation- 

 ships. It is worth recording that in Eryngium planum Linn., a 

 species from the north of Europe and Asia, trigynous flowers occur 

 with some frequency. I rarely examine a head without finding one 

 such flower, and I have found six in one head. There is usually 

 one near the largest and longest involucral bract, and they are 

 generally found in the lower part of the head, in the vicinity of the 

 bracts. 



A plurality in the number of carpels is one of the characters 

 relied on to distinguish Araliacece from Umbellifers. The trigynous 

 flowers of this, and probably other Eryngiums show a line of relation- 

 ship between the two families. 



The facts may also suggest a not distant relationship with 

 Valerianacece. 



A MODE OF VARIATION IN StELLARIA MEDIA. 



Among a number of well developed plants of the common 

 chickweed growing on a compost heap, it was interesting to note that 

 no two seemed to be exactly alike. Thev differed from one another 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



in almost every respect, some in form of leaf or flower, others in 

 manner of growth or general habit. One very vigorous grower, 

 with a loose raml)ling habit, was compared with one of comj)aet 

 formal growth. The leaves and general characteristics of each 

 were precisely the same ; but in one the internodes were eight 

 inches, while in the compact form they were but four. The whole 

 difference in appearance was dependent on this single circumstance. 



On the Sexes of the Holly. 



In Martyn's edition of Miller's " Gardener's Dictionary," published 

 in 1807, much stress is laid on the fact that the English holly, Ilex 

 Aquifoliinn, is dioecious. Philip Miller say it was discovered first by 

 his father. It was considered a very important discovery as removing 

 Ilex from the class Tetrandria, where Linnseus placed it, and giving 

 it place in Pohjgamia dmcia. In those days botanical facts of this 

 character had bearing on few other questions than that of classifica- 

 tion. It is not surprising, therefore, that authors since Martyn's 

 time have hardly thought the matter worthy of any consideration. 

 The most critical of all English botanists. Dr. Arnold Bromfield, 

 in his "Flora Vectensis," giving nearly two pages of close print to a 

 minute description of every character, passes over the question of 

 sex by observing ; " the earlier flowers are said to be generally 

 imperfect, and such as are 4-cleft to generally want the germen 

 which accounts for the small quantity of berries produced by some 

 trees which flower abundantly." 



In these days when the laws which influence the production of 

 sexes in flowers, and the various questions arising from dimorphism 

 and the relation of insects to fertilization have become matters of 

 paramount importance, the actual condition of the sexual character 

 in the holly is a matter of considerable intei'est, deserving much 

 more critical attention than has been given it. 



The description given by English authorities fits exactly the 

 characters of the male flowers of Ilex opaca. I venture, therefore, 

 to express an opinion that the Ilex Aqidfolium is dia^cious like its 

 American relative. I am inclined to believe, however, that the 

 dicecism of closely related species is much more pronounced in the 

 American than in European forms. This would have an important 

 bearing on evolutionary studies. It would be worth while for 

 observers in the old world to note whether any separate plant of 

 Ilex Aqaifolium has trul}- hermaphrodite flowers, or even perfect 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



fruit, on plants which seem to have only male flowers. Supposing 

 the English holly to have the same characters as the American, 

 the female flower, solitary on the pedicel, will easily be distinguished 

 from the bi- or tri-florous staminate ones. 



Twenty Ilex opaca trees on my grounds were carefully examined on 

 May 30th. Eight of these are purely pistillate plants. The gynsecium 

 is large and perfectly developed in every respect, and although there 

 were apparently four stamens, they were membranous and function- 

 less. The pistillate flowers were easily recognized by being solitary on 

 stout pedicels. There were but four or five flowers on each branch, 

 and one might almost pass a tree without knowing it was in bloom, 

 unless the flowers were sought for. The male flowers on the other 

 hand were bi- or tri-florous, and often two common peduncles 

 arose from the same axis. The stamens were large and the anthers 

 abundantly polliniferous, the ground beneath the trees being 

 thickly strewn with the fallen blossoms. The gyna?cium remains at 

 the base of the flower in a wholly undeveloped condition. By these 

 characters one can tell at once, without any critical examination, the 

 fertile from the infertile tree. It is not improbable that there are 

 some trees that may produce male and female flowers on the same 

 tree — may be monoecious, — but these twenty trees, thoroughly 

 dioecious, would indicate this to be its prevailing characteristic. 



A slight jarring of a branch indicates that the female tree may 

 have their flowers pollinated by the agency of the wind. Honey 

 bees were, however, busily collecting nectar indifferently from the 

 flowers of both sexes, and may aid in pollination. 



Ox THE Stamens of Ranunculus abortivus. 



Of all plants we should hardly expect to find definite stamens in 

 lianunculufi ; but in R. abortivus I find them uniformly in three 

 series of five each, 15 in all. The first five mature contempora- 

 neously with the opening of the flower, and the large full anthers of 

 this series set, as they should be, alternately with the petals, contrast 

 so greatly with the undeveloped ones, that our first impression might 

 be that we were examining a five-stamened flower. In Ranunculus 

 bulbosus, blooming among these plants, no such striking difterence 

 could be noted. If other species have this peculiarity it might be 

 useful as a sectional character. 



My object in examining the flowers closely was to note their habit 

 in relation to pollination. As every flower, and we might say every 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1892 



BANKS, SPIDERS OF UPPER CAYUGA BASIN. 





PROC. ACAD. NA7. SCI. PHl^A. 1892. 



PL. 



54a 



<5^ ^^ 



BANKS, SPlDEhS OF UPPER CAYUGA BASIN. 





PROC. ACAD. ;\i,". , . o._-l. ,-riiLA. 1^92. 



BANKS, SPIDERS OF UPPER G/YUGA BASIN. 





P-^OC, 



oo . - n _ ,. lb; 



79a 81a 



69 





MX SPinEHS OF UPPER CAYUGA RASIN. 





P-OC. ACa:; NAT. 5CI. PHILA. 189: 



PL. V. 



BANKS, SPIDEHS OF UPPER CAYUGA BASIN. 





PROC. aCAO. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1332. 



PL. VI. 



MUbry, iel. 



PILSBRY. ANATOMY OF CARACOLUS AND HBMITROCHUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1892 



PL. VII. 



PILSBRY, NEW UNIOS, ETC. 





PROC. ACAD. 'NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1892 



PL. VIM 



PILSBRY, NEW UNIOS, ETC. 





FROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1892. 



PL. IX. 



A. P. BrowD, del. 



BROWN, SPIRE OF BACULITES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1892. 



PL. X. 



lYES, PYCNOGONUM STEARNSl. 





1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 169 



carpel, is fertile, we may look for arrangements to insure self- 

 fertilization. But the anthers do not seem to mature before the 

 expansion of the petals, and do not appear to be well situated to 

 pollinate the stigmas. The flowers have no odor to attract insects, 

 nor do I find after many attempts to discover them, that any insects 

 visit the flowers. The flower stems droop at night-fall, and I have, 

 heretofore, thought that, in the act of drooping, pollen falls from the 

 anthers to the stigmas ; and I meet with no suggestions warranting 

 a modification of this belief. 



On the character of the Stamens in Ornithoualum 

 umbellatum. 



It need scarcely be noted that the floral whorls of Liliaceous 

 plants are in sets of three, though it is often difficult in the six- 

 leaved perianth to distinguish the three-petaled from the three- 

 sepaled series. 



In Ornithogalum umbellatum each three are well defined on the 

 outer and the inner whorl, though there is no difference between the 

 two except in the smaller size. The filaments are petaloid. and 

 the outer whorl of three follows the character of the petals in being 

 of a still smaller size. But when we come to the fourth series, or 

 interior set of three stamens, they are found to be larger in their 

 filaments than the three before them. 



It is so unusual to find an inner series of stamens more petaloid 

 than the outer, that the fact is certainly w'orth recording. 



Few of this genus are odoriferous : this is one of the exceptions. 



Note on Barbarea in connection with Dichogamy. 



So far as I am aware no botanist but myself has ventured 

 to explain the cause of dichogamy. I have shown that stamens are 

 called into active growth under a much lower temperature or a 

 less enduring warm temperature than pistils. Hence a flower which 

 may be proterogynous under a continuously warm period late in 

 spring would be proterandrous under the fitful advent of a few warm 

 days in other seasons. 



I have long ago called attention to the fact that the Barbarea 

 vulgaris is proterogynous while Barbarea pr<jecox is proterandrous. 

 At that time I had no clue to the reason fur this great difference 

 between two species so closely allied that botanists have usually to 

 wait until the fruit is nearly mature before they can positively distin- 

 guish them. 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Both species grow in abundance on my ground and I have good 

 opportunity to observe them. B. vulgaris is confined to the low 

 ground and B. pnecox to the high dry ground among cultivated 

 plants. It may be found out of cultivated ground or on waste 

 places of much the same character as on the former, but I have 

 never seen it in the thoroughly native condition of B. vulgaris. 



B. vulgaris comes into bloom regularly about the first week 

 in May with little regard to whether February or March is 

 fitfully warm, or of a continuously temperate character. B. prcecox, 

 on the other hand, is so easily excited that while in some seasons it 

 will be in flower cotemporaneously with the other species, in others 

 it is nearly over before the B. vulgaris commences to bloom. 

 Habituated to localities favoi'ing such varying conditions of 

 temperature, it would certainly acquire the proterandrous character, 

 while the other species under more retardative conditions would 

 become i)roterogynous. A habit once formed will, we know, con- 

 tinue in plants as well as in animals, by inheritance, long after the 

 causes that induced it have ceased to operate. It is, therefore, quite 

 likely that though B. pra'cox were to find itself growing beside 

 B. vulgaris in the low and continuously cool atmosphere of a 

 wet meadow, it would still show for a time much of the proterandrous 

 character it had formed through iis earlier associations with other 

 conditions. • 



Though I regard environment as having much less to do with the 

 formation of what we must regard as permanent specific characters 

 than is often claimed for it, it is generally conceded to be a great 

 factor in permanent change. The facts here noted certainly indicate 

 its influence in producing dichogamy which would undoubtedly 

 become a fixed character in many instances. 



An extremely interesting point in the close study of the two 

 species is that the proterandrous species is evidently so arranged that 

 cross-fertilization is well nigh impossible. On the other hand the 

 proterogynous species seems incapable of using its own pollen 

 until it has had every chance to receive pollen from other flowers. 

 In the latter case the pistil pushes its way through the unopened 

 perianth, exposing the pin-head form of the capitate stigma. The 

 plants on my ground are in great favor with honey bees, which 

 seem scarcely to care to visit any other flowers when Barbarea 

 vulgaris is abundant, and the exposed stigmas can scarcely avoid 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



being freely dusted with foreign pollen by these industrious 

 creatures. 



On the other hand the stigma is much below the anthers at the 

 time the flower expands in B. prcecox. The pollen is discharged 

 before the flower opens, and when the stigma is brought up through 

 the stamens by the elongation of the ovarium, it is found to be 

 dusted by its own pollen. In this species the flower is surely a self- 

 fertilizer. 



It certainly must, be interesting to the biologist to note two 

 species so closely related, possessing such diametrically opposite con- 

 ditions as regards the fertilization of their flowers ; and the teleologist 

 cannot fail to be equally interested, as the facts have an intimate 

 bearing on the questions he has to discuss. To my mind the chief 

 value of the facts related lies in the additional proof they afford 

 that dichogamy, to a great extent, is dependent on the varying con- 

 ditions that excite advanced growth in stamens or pistils respectively. 



It may be added in connection with the subject of the free visit of 

 honey bees to these flowers, that the flowers have no odor percep- 

 tible to our senses. 




172 proceedings of the academy of [1892. 



April 5. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fifty-three persons present. 



April 12. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-five persons present. 



April 19. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



April 26. 

 The President, General Isaac J. AVistar, in the chair. 

 Sixty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Mechanical Genesis of the Scales of 

 Fishes," by John A. Ryder, was presented for publication. 

 Prof. F. H. Giddings was elected a member. 



On the Molars of the Pteropine Bats. — Dr. Harrison Allen 

 called attention to the homologies of the cusps of the molars in the 

 pteropine bats. In Pteropus medius the grinding surface of the 

 parallelogram-like crown of the first upper molar is traversed its 

 entire length by a groove which is bounded externally by a thick 

 ridge and internally by a narroAV ridge. The outer ridge forms an 

 imperfectly developed cusp at its anterior part which is probably the 

 paracone. The inner ridge is imperfectly divided into two sub- 

 equal parts, of which the anterior is probably the protoconeand the 

 posterior the metacone, the heel (hypocone) being absent. These 

 identifications agree with the cu<ps as seen in other mammals. 

 Owing to the great size of the grinding surface it becomes difficult 

 to understand why the backward extension of the tooth differs from 

 other types in the form of the primary cusps instead of the evolu- 

 tion occurring as is the rule by the appearance of the hypocone. 



The commissure which constitutes the anterior and the posterior 

 borders of the tooth are exceptionally well defined and the one last 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



named appears to take the place by adaptation of the region of the 

 hypocone. 



A recent observation on Cephalotes has suggested to the recorder 

 that it is probable that the hypocone is really present and that the 

 greater part of the grinding surface may be so named. In this 

 genus the parts protocone, paracone and metacone can be easily 

 discerned. The protocone according to this identification compels 

 one to accept the cusp named as protocone as in truth the metacone, 

 and thus the usual elements of a tritubercular tooth are all accounted 

 for, and the remaining extended part of the tooth becomes the 

 hypocone. 



By this identification the pterojjine molar ceases to be aberrant. 

 But it must be remembered that the process of reduction of the 

 face which takes place in the pteropines is likely to be accompanied 

 with the same disposition to tooth variation as is seen in the Steno- 

 derms among the Phjllostomidce. In this family the molar teeth 

 are highly aberrant and the commissures at the anterior and pos- 

 terior borders greatly develoj^ed. The question naturally arises why 

 may not the molar in Cephalotes be acknowledged to be also aberrant 

 and the cusp named above the protocone be in reality nothing but 

 a supplemental cusp projected from the anterior commissure and the 

 parts as defined for the long faced Pteropns be true for all genera ? 

 On the whole Dr. Allen inclined to the opinion that the statement 

 first made was the correct one since it ])ei*mitted the cusps to be 

 named with the least amount of violence to accepted views. 



The first molar in both Cephalotes and the related Harpyia 

 closely resembles the last premolar, so closely indeed as to suggest 

 that it may prove to be one of the premolar series. But our knowl- 

 edge of the miik dentition does not permit this identification to be 

 made with certainty. The transition in all the details is certainly 

 much more gradual than is usually the case between a molar and a 

 premolar. In Harpyia at least the first molar as defined in accepted 

 descriptions lies under and slightly in advance of the infra orbital 

 foramen, a remarkable position for it when the greatly reduced 

 facial axis is borne in mind. 



A striking peculiarity is seen in the last upper premolar and both 

 upper molars of Cephalotes in the presence of a longitudinal ridge 

 on the grinding surface of the tooth back of the paracone. The 

 ridge lies in the middle of the tooth. It is rudimeutal in the pre- 

 molar and the last molar but is trenchant in the first molar. 



In the lower jaw of Cephalotes the teeth present similar 

 peculiarities to those of the upper with the exception that the longitu- 

 dinal ridge is absent from the last ])renio]ar, is rudimental in the 

 first and last molar but well dev^eloped in the second. The single 

 specimen of Cephalotes examined was a young adult and the pre- 

 maxillaries were united. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



MINERAL LOCALITIES OF PHII^DELPHIA AND VICINITY. 



BY THEODORE D. RAND, WILLIAM W. JEFFERIS AND 



J. T. M. CARDEZA, M. D. 



The vicinity of Philadelphia has long been famed for the number 

 of its mineral localities and the remarkable abundance and variety 

 of species and specimens. The fact that these have been found chiefly 

 in mining and quarrying operations of limited extent, many of them 

 of short duration, added to the fact that the region has rapidly filled 

 up with a dense population, so that noted localities have been covered 

 with buildings, while others have apparently been exhausted, led 

 one of the writers to suggest that those most familiar with the 

 occurrence of these minerals during the last half century should 

 publish jointly, and in connected form, an account of the localities 

 more nearly complete than any now existing. 



In doing this each has taken the region mth which he is most 

 familiar, assisted, however, by the others. No mineral has been 

 mentioned without qualification unless known to one of the writers 

 to have been found at the locality. It is believed that few omissions 

 will be found, but the authors will be thankful for further in- 

 formation from any one knowing additional facts, and such facts will 

 be incorporated in a subsequent paper with due credit. 



The authors desire to express their acknowledgment to Messrs. 

 Samuel Tyson, John Smedley, Joseph Willcox, Edward D. Drown 

 and Lewis Woolman for valuable information incorporated in these 

 notes. 



The Minerals of Philadelphia and the Territory Adjoin- 

 ing ON the Northwest. — By Theo. D. Rand. 

 A large part of Philadelphia is covered with the Delaware River 

 gravels and clays, but most of the streams have cut through this 

 covering and have exposed the underlying rocks. Owing to the 

 demand for building materials many quarries have been opened, 

 but few^ of any great extent. The sites of many of these are now 

 covered by buildings. The rocks underlying the gravels and clays 

 are gneisses and mica schists, usually with a strike of about N. 60° 

 E. and a generally northwardly dip ; they are often decomposed to 

 a considerable depth. Their best exposure is along the Schuylkill 

 River. Ascending the Schuylkill, the first exposure occurs at Gray's 

 Ferry : a decomposed, highly feldspathic gneiss, of which the feld- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



spar has become kaolin and the mica, iu some cases, a vermiculite. 

 Mill Creek flows into the Schuylkill River about three hundred 

 yards above Gray's Ferry, and on its banks some quarrying has 

 been done in the mica schist, but no minerals were found except 

 apatite and albite in poor specimens. In the sand of the Schuylkill 

 above Gray's Ferry, and probably elsewhere, small zircons occur. 



On mica schist rocks near Gray's Ferry, exposed in a cut of the 

 Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore R. R., an efflorescence 

 proved to be glauberite but it is possible that this may have been 

 derived from the gunpowder used iu blasting. 



The mica schists continue about two miles up stream to Fair- 

 mount, whose bold hill is composed of a gneiss which appai'ently 

 rises as an anticlinal through the schists and is exposed by erosion 

 On the western side of the river this rock was largely quarried. 

 The first quarry opened was immediately on the river bank. When 

 the inclined plane was abandoned the Pennsylvania Railroad made 

 a curved cut through these rocks extending from about 30th Street 

 to 34th Street, and a large quarry, or a series of quarries afterwards 

 merged into one, was opened on the southwest side of the railroad. 

 Subsequently the bluff between the railroad and the river was 

 largely quarried away, leaving an almost vertical wall of some fifty 

 feet in height. This gneiss, identical with that found on Ridley and 

 Crum Creeks in Delaware County, contained segregated masses of 

 coarse orthoclase-albite-muscovite-granite. In this granite most of 

 the minerals were found. Those identified are as follows : 



Orthoclase in fine crystals, nearly all obtained from one highly 

 quartzose granite bed near the river. 



Albite, found with the orthoclase, but usually somewhat decom- 

 posed, and sometimes wholly converted into kaolin, the orthoclase 

 remaining unchanged. 



Tourmaline, black, in good crystals, sometimes terminated and 

 sometimes large, but usually very brittle, so that good specimens 

 were difficult to procure. 



Beryl, rare and in small crystals, sometimes much decomposed. 



Autunnite occurred in crystals and also as crystalline coatings 

 loosely implanted on the rock. It was at times quite abundant and 

 in very fine specimens. It was not usually in the granite but 

 chiefly occurred in seams in the gneiss. 



Chalcolite, perhaps a half dozen specimens were found associated 

 with the autunnite. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Uranochre, oue specimen, probably this species. 



Garnet occurred, but the specimens were neither fine nor 

 abundant. Oue specimen of transparent or precious garnet was 

 found. 



Chalcopyrite and malachite in poor specimens. 



Bismuthinite, one specimen, was found in the granite on the river 

 bank which aflbrded the fine orthoclase crystals. It is a small group 

 of crystals imbedded in tourmaline. 



Muscovite, biotite and pyrite and two specimens of hyalite colored 

 yellow by uranium were found. 



Kortheast of Fairmount, along the line of the Reading Railroad, 

 and to the north of the latter Avas high ground chiefly of gneiss, 

 probably the same as that at Fairmount but much decomposed. In 

 the granitic beds of this gneiss good crystals of muscovite occurred. 

 All this region has long been built over. 



Northwest of the Fairmount gneiss occur mica schists and horn- 

 blende schists which have been quarried along the Schuylkill and 

 in West Philadelphia. The minerals found in this region are not 

 numerous. On the left bank of the river about a quarter of a mile 

 above Fairmount, a promontory of gneiss including some syenite 

 formerly projected into the river, terminated by a rock covered dur- 

 ing high water, known as Turtle rock. When the Park drive along 

 the river was constructed, this rock was covered and the adjacent 

 bluff partly quarried away. Here a few quite good specimens of 

 chabazite were obtained, also hornblende in long bladed crystalliza- 

 tions. 



Between Turtle rock and Girard Avenue bridge, bucholzite was 

 formerly found. 



In the mica schists of the tunnel in the Park north of Girard 

 Avenue, and also in a quarry on Girard Avenue about 38th Street, 

 meuaccanite occurred in rough crystals. At the tunnel Mr. Howard 

 Parker found a specimen in which three tabular crystals were 

 curved into concentric semi-circles, the inner one with a diameter of 

 two inches, the outer of three and a quarter inches. The crystals 

 were about one-eighth of an inch in thickness with a quartz parting 

 from to ' of an inch ; a separate flat crystal occupied the radius of 

 the semicircle opposite the three. The exposed ends of these crystals 

 were broken but they were evidently upwards of two inches in 

 length alontr the axis of the semicircle. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



At tlie quarry near 38tli Street, one specimen contained six 

 crystals within 3x4 inches, the crystals measuring' upwards of an 

 inch in length hut lieing rough except upon the tabular surface. 



On the Pennsylvania Railroad, about 36th Street, was a small 

 quarry in mica schist. Here was found a rock formed of garnet in 

 miutite crystals of much brilliancy and of a yellowish-red color 

 under the microscope but of a dark red in mass. It varied from 

 almost pure garnet to a gneiss containing minute garnets. 



In granitic veins or beds in these schists the mica is generally 

 muscovite, intermixed with a very dark, nearly black mica, and the 

 two occur intercrystallized, occasionally in remarkable specimens 

 some of which are figured in the Report of the 2nd Geological Survey 

 of Pennsylvania, Vol. C\ In much of the muscovite, hexagonal 

 rhombs, invisible or rarely visible to the naked eye, appear under 

 the microscope. On the northwesterly border of these schists 

 bucholzite, forming a schist, is abundant, especially near Park 

 Station, Schuylkill Valley Railroad. In a quarry south of the 

 Station, and west of the railroad, chalcopyrite, malachite and chry- 

 socolla occurred in hornblende gneiss interstratified in the bucholzite 

 bearing mica schists. 



Between these schists and the overlying gravel is frequently 

 found a black friable conglomerate, the cement of Avhich is wad 

 containing cobalt. It can be found in many places. 



Included in the mica schists are strata of hornblende gneiss, 

 sometimes nearly pure hornblende. Immediately above the old 

 Columbia Bridge in hornblende gneiss was the well-known laumon- 

 tite locality. Good specimens were obtained on only two occasions, 

 the first when an ice-house was built there about 1850 and the rock 

 was quarried to make room for it and to build it, and many years 

 subsequently, when the first ice house having burned down, a larger 

 one was erected in its place. JNIehlzeolite was abundant and may 

 still be obtained, but well crystallized laumontite was rare. 

 Good crystals, however, were obtained measuring over three-quar- 

 ters of an inch in length, together with indifferent specimens of nat- 

 rolite and heulandite and of cry.stallized quartz. 



As an efflorescence on these hornblende rocks alunogen and halo- 

 trichite occur occasionally, but on the Pennsylvania Railroad at 

 o9th street there was an old quarry in a peculiar pyritiferous gneiss 

 andfelsite. This quarry was opened for railroad ballast, for which 

 purpose the rock was used to a considerable extent l)efore its rapid 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



decomposition was known. At this point halotrichite was at times 

 very abundant and in quite large masses, due to the fact that the 

 rock in question seems to- lie in a synclinal, the axis of which rises 

 rapidly southwest ward, forming on the northeast side a series of 

 nooks protected by overhanging ledges, so that the halotrichite 

 formed was protected from the Aveather. Associated with this is a 

 subsulphate of iron, or iron sinter, probably glockerite, also 

 alunogen. 



Pebbles of many varieties of quartz, jasper, basauite, etc., have 

 been found in the gravel which overspreads a large part of Phila- 

 delphia. 



All the rocks mentioned above have a general northeast and 

 southwest strike, but there is a belt of very hard gneiss extending 

 from Frankford to the Wissahickon, with a strike nearly west, 

 probably rising on the crest of an anticlinal wave or possibly an in- 

 trusive mass. This gneiss being hard and quite uniform, with^a 

 straight fracture, makes a valuable building stone, and it has been 

 quarried at several points, at some quite largely. It varies in text- 

 ure from a rather coarse granitic or syenitic gneiss to an almost 

 cryptocrystalliue felsite or granulite. Granite segregations are not 

 common, but they are sometimes large and chiefly of orthoclase. The 

 largest quarries of this are at Frankford. Here the minerals were 

 finest and most abundant. Chief among these was stilbite, rarely 

 in crystalline forms, usually in stellate radiations on the surface of 

 what the quarryinen call " heads " in the gneiss, that is joint planes 

 at right angles, or nearly so, to the bedding. This was very abun- 

 dant, many tons of rock covered with it being exposed at a single 

 blast, and some of it was beautiful, but, occurring as it did on this 

 hard rock, and on faces at right angles to the cleavage, it was often 

 difficult to procure specimens in the midst of great abundance. 

 Fortunately, at times, there were subordinate joints close to the 

 main one ; these, too, would be filled with stilbite and along such 

 line the rock would split easily. Usually the coating was very thin, 

 almost immeasurable, but occasionally the joint would widen, and 

 the stilbite would occur, half an inch or more in thickness. "With 

 the stilbite is associated, rarely, apophyllite in fine crystals some of 

 them half an inch across, usually opaque glassy-white but some- 

 times colorless and transparent. 



Molybdenite occurs imbedded in the gneiss, sometimes in large 

 masses (one of over a pound weight of pure molybdenite) and also 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHH.ADELPHIA. 179 



in crystals which for perfection are probably unequalled. One of 

 about the size of a pea is almost perfect on all sides, having the 

 pris-m and two domes. One crystal, nut perfect but showing five 

 planes, measured 21 x4 inches, and others, showing all the prismatic 

 planes, 1} x 2 inches. 



The minerals described occurred in the largest quarry, situated 

 northeast of Frankford Creek and between Adams and Church 

 Streets, chiefly towards the northern end of the quarry. In the 

 gneiss at the extreme south end of this quarry was a bed of ortho- 

 clase in which was found the randite, usually as a very thin coating 

 on orthoclase, sometimes in groups of microscopic acicular crystals, 

 occasionally imbedded in calcite. 



Some of the orthoclase of this quarry has a pink tint, due, as 

 shown by the microscope, to minute crystals, probably of gothite. 

 Tourmaline occurred in poor crystals and also as a rock-like mass 

 coating the gneiss. Afuscovite is found, but in poor specimens; also 

 lepidomelane in large cleavable masses. Epidote and sphene, the 

 latter in minute but perfect crystals, were found rarely. 



In a small quarry, adjacent to the above, lying across Church 

 Street, was a small bed of calcite in the gneiss containing fine 

 crystals of epidote, some an inch or two long, terminated, and one, 

 measuring 1x21 inches, showing prism faces only, but those brilliant 

 and perfect. Crystallized hornblende was sometimes found but was 

 rare. Hyalite containing uranium was also found. 



Beside these the following were found in indifferent specimens : 

 Iceland spar, chalcopyrite, bornite, malachite, chrysocolla, apatite, 

 fluorite. 



On Frankford Creek, above this quarry, there is a granite con- 

 taining reddish orthoclase and greenish oligoclase. 



In a small quarry on Little Tacony Creek west of Frankford 

 Road apophyllite was found ; the first place at which it wns dis- 

 covered in this vicinity. 



In its westward strike this Frankford gneiss is next met with near 

 Wayne Junction, Germantown. The railroad here crosses the 

 turnpike, or Germantown Road, and formerly there was a large 

 quarry in rock very like that of Frankford, except that near the 

 surface it was much decomposed. This was the locality of the 

 philadelphite which occurred as the mica in a schist, and also in 

 small veins in the rock. From the occurrence deeper in the quarry 

 of pi'ecisely similiar veins of hornblende and the fact that the hard 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



hornblende gneiss of the lower part of the quarry seemed to decora- 

 pose into the philadelpLite schist near the surface, I think the 

 philadelphite is due to the alteration of hornblende. 



Except sphene and bornite I know of no other mineral found 

 here. About a quarter of a mile further Avest in a road-cutting were 

 large quantities of a feldspar, jirobably orthoclase containing im- 

 perfect crystals of a black mica, probably lepidomelane, frequently 

 five or six inches in length and not over an inch across. Further 

 west and close to the Wissahickon is the well known McKinney's 

 quarry to which the attention of mineralogists was first called by 

 the abundance of apatite. The gneiss here is very regular and of 

 excellent quality. In a bed of feldspar met with about 1850 

 rough irregular crystals of apatite, some a foot long, were found 

 abundantly. Besides this the following were found ; natrolite, heul- 

 andite, laumontite, hornblende, bornite, chalcopyrite, malachite, 

 chrysocolla, fahlunite, sphene and a micaceous mineral resembling 

 philadelphite. Some of the laumontite was colored green by 

 copper. 



Northwest of the Philadelphia mica schists and gneisses, from the 

 Schuylkill to near ^lorton Station, southeast of Media, extends an 

 outcrop of porphyritic gneiss which appears to include some small 

 schist areas, and this is followed by schists called by Mr. Hall the 

 Manayunk schists, very similar to those on the southeast of the 

 porphyry. Both the porphyry and the schists are very barren of 

 minerals. The porphyry is, of course, full of feldspar (orthoclase) 

 crystals usually if not invariably twinned, but it is impossible to 

 detach them from the gangue, and nothing but sections can be had. 

 In the porphyry, granitic segregations occur, composed chiefly of 

 a reddish orthoclase making sometimes a graphic granite. Quartz 

 is much less in quantity than the orthoclase, and mica (muscovite) 

 even less than the quartz. Rarely in this granite occurs black 

 tourmaline in poor specimens. Near West Laurel Hill Cemetery 

 minute sphenes occur in the gneiss which is theie very fine grained,. 

 Northwest of the bridge of the Reading Railroad over the Schuyl- 

 kill at the Falls was formerly a large quarry in a gneiss resembling 

 the Fairmount gneiss, but harder. 



On the west bank of the Schuylkill, just above the Park bridge, 

 is a quarry which at one time was largely wrought. The rock is 

 not distinctly porphyritic, and is very variable in its difterent strata, 

 passing from a highly felspathic gneiss to a mica schist, and from 




1892.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



hornblende gneiss to quartzite. This quarry only, among the large 

 number in the porphyritic rock and adjacent schists, is worthy of the 

 name of a mineral locality ; no fine specimens were found, but the 

 following occurred : quartz in modified crystals, epidote, mag- 

 netopyrite, calcite in dog-tooth crystals, krokidolite, garnet, 

 laumontite, and coatings of halotrichite. On one occasion the sap 

 from a broken root of an oak in the soil over the quarry had trickled 

 down over the rocks whence the halotrichite effloresced, forming a 

 black band of native ink. Rhodonite is reported to have been 

 found in this quarry but I have not seen it. 



Northwest of the Manayunk schists is another series, termed by 

 Mr, Hall the Chestnut Hill schists. Both series contain numerous 

 garnets but the Chestnut Hill schists contain them in largest quan- 

 tity. They are very abundant, sometimes crystallized, rarely large, 

 always dull and usually rough. 



In both these schists occur outcrops of magnesian rocks. The 

 most important of these, mineralogically, except possibly the out- 

 crops near Media, is that which is known as the steatite belt which 

 extends from Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, to Bryn Mawr. It is 

 well exposed on the Wissahickon but on the Schuylkill, at the 

 northwesterly line between Philadelphia and Montgomery County, 

 it has been largely quarried for over a century and has yielded 

 quite a variety of minerals, as follows : talc, rarely in crystals, 

 abundant massive and sometimes in beautiful green translucent 

 specimens ; dolomite, massive very abundant, sometimes good 

 cleavage specimens associated with talc are obtained ; it occurs 

 also crystallized in the ordinary form of pearl spar, of which some 

 beautiful specimens have been obtained, also in six-sided prisms 

 with terminations, and rarely in a form very near a cube ; breun- 

 nerite, in poor specimens, at the old soapstone quarry on the east 

 bank of the river, but in crystals quite perfect and more than an 

 inch across, at the quarry on the west bank ; magnetite in octahedra 

 in chlorite; tremolite, actinolite, chlorite, hallite, staurolite, mil- 

 lerite, bornite, chalcopyrite, malachite, chrysocolla, magnetopyrite, 

 garnet, apatite, genthite, epsomite, chalcanthite, aragonite, zoisite, 

 pyrophyllite, barite and one specimen of rutile in dolomite. Asso- 

 ciated with the steatite is a rock occurring in vast quantity, the 

 mass being steatite, with apparently nodules of serpentine scattered 

 through. At times these show the crystalline form of staurolite, and 

 they are, in part at least, pseudomorphs of serpentine after staurolite. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



On the right bank of the river, besides the breuunerite, asbestus was 

 at one time found in considerable quantity. 



About a half mile above the soapstoue quarry and a quarter of a 

 mile westward from the river was Rose's quarry, in a hard black 

 serpentine of the Lafayette belt. Here were found asbestus, ensta- 

 tite, Schiller spar and antigorite. 



On the Wissahickon, the line of demarkatiou between the Mana- 

 vuuk schists and the Chestnut Hill schists is obscure. Below Gor- 

 gas' Lane nienaccanite in quartz occurred. Above Gorgas' Lane 

 was found halotrichite. Near Cresheim Creek antholiteiu radiated 

 masses is abundant, also staurolite and kyanite in the mica schists, 

 in poor specimens, and garnets in great quantity but poor. Very 

 recently fine kyanite was obtained. Where the steatite belt crosses, 

 near Thorp's Lane, magnetite in oetahedra, talc and steatite are 

 found. Hyalite is found occasionally coating the schists. 



On the Schuylkill, the tunnel of the Reading Railroad through 

 the Manayunk schists at Flat Rock afforded fine specimens of red 

 stilbite, also heulaudite, beryl and calcite. On the left bank, nearly 

 opposite the tunnel, were found brown spar and ilvaite. At Hea- 

 cock's quarry in the Chestnut Hill schists at Jenkintown, North 

 Pennsylvania Railroad, Mr. Edward D. Drown found an albite 

 granite containing very minute green crystals which a microscopic 

 examination proves to be torbernite. This is an interesting dis- 

 covery. 



Northwest of the Chestnut Hill schists is a hill, often of great 

 height, and almost continuous from Trenton, N. J., to beyond the 

 Brandywine. This is of Laurentian gneiss. It is, except in one 

 place, singularly barren of crystallized or rare minerals. This ex- 

 ception is the w^ell-known Vanartsdalen's quarry near Feasterville, in 

 Bucks County, where a small bed of limestone is exposed and here 

 we find many of the minerals found in the Laurentian limestones of 

 Canada. This is the only observed out-crop of limestone in the 

 whole length of the Laurentian in this part of the State. The rock 

 is mostly granular and crystalline and much mixed with other 

 minerals, particularly phlogopite, pyroxene and graphite. The fol- 

 lowing minerals have been found : — 



Blue quartz, which, while abundant in massive specimens through- 

 out the whole Laurentian range, was in specimens of unusually 

 good color at this quarry ; orthoclase, massive, of a gray color, 

 translucent, almost transparent, with the cleavage surfaces very 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



brilliaut ; rarely it is beautifully opalescent, resembling labra- 

 dQrite, or even more closely resembling the microcline of Norway ; 

 muscovite, rare, of a bright emerald-green color ; phlogopite 

 abundant, but not in good specimens ; wollastonite, massive, at one 

 time abundant, but usually rare ; garnet, massive, not common ; 

 pyroxene in its varieties, salite, fassaite ; coccolite abundant ; sphene 

 in crystals up to an inch in diameter, some quite good, poor speci- 

 mens abundant ; scapolite chiefly in its variety ekebergite, but also 

 in rough crystals, the former abundant ; moroxite ; zircon very 

 rare, but in beautiful crystals ; molybdenite has been reported from 

 this quarry but I think graphite has been mistaken for it; gypsum 

 in poor specimens formed by the action of decomposing pyrite on 

 the limestone. 



The graphite, phlogopite, pyroxene, etc., occurred in the lime- 

 stone often in bands an inch or so wide and a few inches long and 

 remarkably contorted ; so much so, that sections roughly broken 

 would occasionally closely simulate letters of the alphabet and the 

 late Mr. Vanartsdalen used to exhibit with much pride the name 

 ^' George Washington " in these natural stone letters remarkably 

 perfect except in such details as the cross of the A. 



In the Laurentian at Trenton and also at Camp Hill near Willow 

 Grove small zircons occur, also, in many places loose in the soil., 

 I know of no minerals in this belt elsewhere except the ordinary 

 constituents of the gneiss: quartz, generally bluish or milky, ortho- 

 clase, a triclinic feldspar, hornblende, magnetite and garnet, and 

 iilso, at one locality near Radnor Station in a trap, labradorite and 

 hypersthene. 



Northwestward of the Laurentian for nearly its whole extent is a 

 limestone valley in which, or bordering it, are schists, those near the 

 Laurentian very closely resembling the Manayunk and Chestnut 

 Hill schists, and in many places near the limestone, unctuous clays 

 carrying much limonite. In the limestone many quarries have been 

 opened, some of them large and deep, especially along a line near 

 the southeastern margin, where a bed of the limestone has been con- 

 verted into marble. The explorations for iron ore have been more 

 numerous than extensive, but in some places vast quantities have 

 been taken out and used chiefly at adjacent furnaces. 



At the limestone and marble quarries there is almost nothing of 

 mineralogical interest : calcite in poor crystals, small quartz crystals, 

 damourite in sheets and coatings comprise all, with the following 

 •exceptions : — 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The most noted marble quarry is at Marble Hall, Montgomery 

 County, on the Ridge Road about fourteen miles from Philadelphia. 

 This yielded fine statuary marl)le and Avas wrought as an open 

 quarry to a depth, I am informed, of over three hundred feet ; near 

 by lignite and iron pyrites occur. 



It has been suggested that this marble is due to the alteration of 

 the limestone by the Conshohockeu trap dyke which is near its north- 

 westerly side. Inasmuch as there is ordinary limestone between 

 the marble and the dyke and the marble occurs also at a distance 

 from the dyke as at Potts and Henderson's quarries, this view seems 

 untenable. At Conshohockeu, in the cut of the Schuylkill Valley 

 Railroad, the trap dyke was almost if not quite in contact with the 

 limestone, which showed no change from the ordinary limestone of 

 the region. 



Northeast of this was a smaller quarry in an inferior marble, and 

 in this was once found a mass of barite of many tons weight almost 

 indistinguishable from the marble except by its weight. It is a 

 tradition that it was supposed to be marble until the hoisting tackle 

 having parted three times successively while attempting to lift a not 

 unusually large block, an investigation showed that it weighed one 

 and one-third times the same bulk of marble. Carbonate of 

 strontia Avas reported from this vicinity, but I think it a mistake. 



Mr. Jefferis inform? me that in 1837 fine crystals of dog-tooth 

 spar were found in quantity at Marble Hall. 



East of the Schuylkill between the limestone and the Laurentian, 

 is a stratum of Cambrian sandstone forming during most of its course 

 a prominent ridge, especially near Edge Hill Station, on the 

 North Pennsylvania Railroad. In this rock, hematite occurs 

 abundantly in brilliant cleavable masses, very rarely crystallized. 

 It is slightly titaniferous, and was found by Mr, Edward D. 

 Drown, upon land belonging to him near Weldon, to contain rutile 

 in interesting specimens. 



On the right bank of the Schuylkill, just above Conshohockeu, 

 Montgomery County, a large quarry known as Bullock's has been 

 wrought for many years in a limestone much mixed with mica and 

 graphite. The rock is tough and durable and is favorably situated 

 for quarrying. It cleaves in one direction with facility and in the 

 others it is divided by joints many feet apart, enabling stones of 

 almost any size to be readily procured. This renders it the pre- 

 ferred stone in Philadelphia for heavy foundations and it has been 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



used thus'injmost of the larger buildings for many years. Minerals 

 are rare in this rock. In seams, j)oor quartz crystals and pyrite 

 occur, with occasionally small, but very perfect and beautifully 

 modified crystals of calcite. In one seam, near the river, about 

 1866, a few remarkable crystals of calcite were found, being perfect 

 and doubly terminated hexagonal prisms, with trihedral summits. 

 Aragonite occasionally lines crevices, some specimens being of much 

 beauty. 



White cleavable calcite occurs. Phyllite was found in this lime- 

 stone in 1864 near Plymouth. In the Chester valley fluorite occurs. 

 At Potts' landing galena is said to have occurred in the limestone. 



At the limonite mines adjacent to this limestone belt few minerals 

 occur other than the limonite and that usually in specimens not 

 worthy of a place in a mineralogical cabinet. An exception to this 

 was a mine opened near the Edge Hill furnace on the North Penn- 

 sylvania Railroad in which at one time a deposit of geodes of limo- 

 nite of exceptional quality was met with. At this time, besides the 

 limonite, which was in beautiful specimens, the geodes were found 

 lined with fine specimens of gothite, turgite and velvet manganese, 

 psilomelane and braunite. 



In 1855 at Colwell's iron furnace on the northeast bank of the 

 Schuylkill at Conshohocken, a few very fine specimens of cacoxenite 

 were found. This came undoubtedly from the immediate vicinity, 

 but from what particular spot could not be ascertained, as ore was 

 hauled to the furnace from many openings. 



In a thin stratum on both sides of the Laurentian and near it, 

 hornstone or chert occurs, at times in large quantity, particularly 

 northwest of Chestnut Hill, on the Roberts Road southwest of the 

 Old Lancaster Road near Bryn Mawr, and on the Mattson's Ford 

 Road west of Montgomery Avenue, on the line between Upper and 

 Lower Merion, Montgomery County. 



In the township of I'pper Merion, close to King of Prussia, quartz 

 crystals were exposed in a cut of the Trenton Cut-oflT Railroad, west 

 of the road to Radnor. About two miles further east on the same 

 road, and again about a mile from the Schuylkill a quartzose rock 

 filled with cavities studded with quartz crystals was met with in 

 great quantity. In a similar, if not the same, rock near Henderson 

 Station, Chester Valley Railroad, occurred the fossils for which that 

 locality is noted. 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



About half a mile east of Henderson Station pvrite altered into 

 limonite occurs in good specimens. 



Southwest of the "Schuylkill, on each side of the Laurentian hill 

 above mentioned, is a line of serpentine outcrops, beginning on the 

 northwest side about three miles from the river and extending thence 

 nearly in a straight line to a point northwest of West Chester. 

 On the southeast side of the Laurentian there is a very small outcrop 

 northeast of the Schuylkill. Southwest of the river, but close to it, 

 is Rose's quarry before mentioned ; thence the belt stretches south- 

 westward almost continuously through Lower Merion, Radnor, 

 Marple and IS^ewtown Townships. On this belt few quarries or 

 mines have been opened. Rose's quarry, as before mentioned, yielded 

 enstatite, asbestus, Schiller spar and antigorite. 



At Rosemont, where the Pennsylvania Railroad passes this belt, 

 was a quarry, now built over, which afforded a fibrous aragonite. 



Where the road from Philadelphia to West Chester crosses the 

 railroad, about a mile east of Newtown Square, remarkable speci- 

 mens of stalactitic quartz were once found in digging to lay the 

 foundation of a stone wall. The cavities were from one to four 

 inches wide and the stalactites depending, both in the ordinary 

 form and also in curtaiu-like sheets, formed specimeus of great 

 beauty. Further southwest, in the same belt, was Moro Phillips' 

 chrome mine referred to in Dr. Cardeza's notes. 



Close by, but probably in a serpentine not connected with the 

 Laurentian, antholite occurs in quantity and in good specimens. 



In the belt northwest of the Laurentian, about one-half a mile 

 northwest of Radnor Station, a quarry was opened on land then 

 belonging to John Stacker. In this quarry, and in the vicinity, the 

 following minerals were found : — asbestus, mountain cork, marmolite, 

 chromite, chalcedony, cacholong, drusy quartz, deweylite, genthite, 

 enstatite, dermatin (?), serpentine pseudoraorph after asbestus, 

 quartz pseudomorph after asbestus, pimelite, chrysotile, vermiculite. 

 In the mica schist of Cream Valley, about a mile northwest of 

 Radnor Station, crystals of garnet sometimes an inch in diameter 

 and usually distorted, associated with staurolite are abundant. In 

 the limestone of the same valley, about a mile north of Radnor 

 Station, small brilliant cubes of pyrite were at onetime abundant, 

 many of them curiously elongated and flattened. 



In the Potsdam sandstone of Cream Valley minute tourmalines 

 are abundant, occurring occasionally in crystals an inch or more in 

 length. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 187 



Localities of Chester County. By William W. Jefferis. 



Four and a half miles northeast from AVest Chester in the town- 

 ship of Willistown, Chester County, there is a vein or bed of mag- 

 netite. in serpentine, some of the specimens showing strong polarity. 

 This was opened about seventy years ago for chrome ore and some 

 five hundred pounds were taken out, but not being chromite the 

 mining was abandoned. 



The serpentine continues in a southwest course and is exposed in 

 West Goshen Township, north of West Chester, for a mile or more. 

 Three quarries have been opened for building stone. In one of 

 them, on the farm of the late General George A. McCall, is found 

 chrysotile in small veins. 



A'jfew hundred yards west of this is the quarry of William P. 

 Marshall, that has furnished many cabinet specimens of aragonite 

 in small radiated crystals. In seams of the serpentine, dolomite and 

 raarraolite are also found. 



On the adjacent ridge, drusy quartz was formerly very abundant, 

 also chalcedony and jasper. 



At the end of the serpentine ridge, west of Marshall's quarry is a 

 vein' of compact talc that was worked by an old mineralogist in 

 1834, with an idea of making pencils and supplying lyceums with 

 specimens. North of this, on the edge of the serpentine, staurolite 

 and garnets occur. 



Half a mile further west is Taylor's quarry and from it have been 

 taken the following minerals: — radiated aragonite (called by the 

 old niinera]ogi.>-ts of 1820, radiated carbonate of magnesia), dewey- 

 lite, kerolite, asbestus, and chromite in octahedral crystals. In the 

 road north of Mr. Taylor's house, staurolites and garnets were for- 

 merly abundant. 



On^the farm of Caleb S. Cope, in East Bradford ToAvnshi]>, one 

 mile west from Taylor's, is found talc, some of the specimens con- 

 taining yellow actinolite. Epidote in quartz also occurs. A short 

 distance west from the talc locality is an old quarry of magnesian 

 limestone which is very fetid when struck. 



In the edge of the quarry was found necronite and also cyanite 

 of a tine blue color, which at one time was quite plentiful in an old 

 dam breast adjoining. 



Gray cyanite in crystals occurs in a bed of mica schist at both 

 ends of the bridge over[the Brandywine at Cope's in East Bradford 

 Towj)ship. Blue and green cyanite are also found in the rocks 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



near and scattered over the fields for the distance of two miles west 

 of the bridge. 



On the hill seventy-five yards west of the old Black Horse Tav- 

 ern in East Bradford Township (in the road) there is a compact 

 talc of a very fine quality which was exposed some four feet in 

 length by two and a half inches in thickness. This appears to 

 occupy fissures in the hornblende rocks along which there has 

 been a motion of the adjacent parts evidenced by the sliekensided 

 surfaces of this talc. 



In Newlin Towuiship, five miles southwest from the Black Horse 

 locality, there is a large outcrop of serpentine in which numerous 

 lumps of corundum have been found, one of them, lying on the 

 surface, weighed 5,200 pounds. On the north side of the ridge a 

 number of excavations have been made from which several tons 

 have been taken in small pieces. In one of them was found a vein 

 or stratum fourteen feet long by seven feet in breadth and fifly-four 

 feet in depth, a solid mass of corundum and emerylite ; on one side 

 of it was a coating of diaspore, three by two feet and two inches 

 thick, well crystallized on the surface, some of the crystals being 

 two inches long. The other minerals found there were lesleyite, 

 pattersonite, gibbsite, indianite, antigorite and spinel. The locality 

 of corundum was first discovered by the digging of a well on the 

 hill south of this, the crystals being found in a decomposed albite. 

 The well was re-opened in 1844 for corundum but was found unpro- 

 ductive and w'as discontinued after going doAvn fifty feet. Since 

 then a shaft has been sunk near by to the depth of one hundred 

 and fifty feet, with considerable drifting on a vein, and a number 

 of tons of mineral taken out, said to be from a true vein or stratum. 

 This is now worked by a Philadelphia company, with success. 



On the same ridge of serpentine, 500 yards east, a quarry of feld- 

 spar was opened and several carloads of it sent to the potteries at 

 Trenton. It was highly cleavable and furnished many fine cabinet 

 specimens, also large crystals of tourmaline, garnets and muscovite. 

 One half mile east of the corundum locality, at the end of the 

 ridge of serpentine, crystals of beryl of green and yellow colors 

 were found abundantly in the soil ; one terminated crystal Aveighed 

 fifty-one pounds. This appeared to come from a vein of quartz and 

 mica in the serpentine. 



A short distance southwest from the corundum works a shaft has 

 been sunk and a few tons of the miiier.il t.iken out. When first 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



opened some of the corundum contained the rare mineral euph}'llite. 



There are no minerals of any note in the serpentine until we 

 reach the southern i)art of the county Avhere sand chrome occurs in 

 abundance, and thousands of tons have been taken from the soil. 

 Hallite in hexagonal crystals occurs in a vein in East Nottingham 

 Township, also a hard asbestus in stick-like masses two feet long. 



In West Nottingliam Township, crystals of chromite in octahe- 

 drons, roseite (a variety of jeff'erisite) staurolite, leelite and magne- 

 site occur. Several excavations have been made in search of the 

 latter mineral and many tons of it were sent to Philadelphia to be 

 used in the manufacture of epsom salts. 



In the adjoining county of Lancaster, one-half mile from the Mary- 

 land line is the celebrated chrome mine known as " Woods' mine." 

 The mine was opened about the year 1835 or 1840,and many thousand 

 tons of chromic iron have been taken from it. The vein was traced to 

 the depth of 700 feet, and in some places was 30 feet thick. It has not 

 been worked for the past ten years, and is now abandoned, and filled 

 with water and debris. About the year 1858 or 1860 brucite wasfound 

 in abundance, finely crystallized ; one of the veins of brucite being 

 a foot in thickness. The following minerals also were found at 

 this mine: — zaratite, kammererite, penninite, deweylite, ouvarovite, 

 picrolite, genthite, baltimorite, dolomite, hydrodolomite, aragonite 

 in delicate radiated crystals and hematite in very fine crystals with 

 penninite. All the minerals found within five miles of the mine 

 have been labelled from Texas, as follows: — williamsite, enstatite, 

 lancasterite, talc, magnetite crystals in chlorite, green tourmaline, 

 lirnonite pseudoraorph after pyrite in modified crystals, steatite, 

 carnelian, jasper, moss agate and drusy quartz. 



In the western end of the township of West Town, three miles south 

 of West Chester is the celebrated Birmingham serpentine quarry, 

 perhaps better known as Brinton's quarry. The stone has been 

 used in the principal cities of the United States. The following 

 occur in the quarry : — clinochlore and jefferisite in finer specimens 

 than elsewhere; deweylite, tourmaline, beryl, magnesite, talc, 

 aragonite, in radiated crystals on the serpentine, covering sui'faces 

 three by two feet or njore ; oligoclase, showing fine twinning lines; 

 magnetite, amethyst, etc. The crystals of clinochlore, are found in 

 pockets of talc in the solid serpentine, partially decomposed. 



There is also an outcrop of serpentine two and a half miles south- 

 west of West Chester with a vein of aqiiacreptite tlii'ough it. This 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



mineral when immersed in water decrepitates with considerable 

 noise. This locality is in East Bradford township, and amethysts are 

 found in nearly all the fields within half a mile of it. 



Half a mile northwest from the Birmingham quarry is Osborn's 

 Hill, in which a mine was opened about the year 1835 for manga- 

 nese, and half a ton of the black oxide taken from a depth of thirty 

 feet. The vein stone was massive mauganesian garnet containing 

 crystals of yellow sphene. Tourmaline, in small crystals in quartz, 

 occurs abundantly, also orthoclase crystallized, on the Avest side of 

 the hill. 



Very few minerals have been found in the hornblende rocks of 

 Chester County, the principal ones being zoisite at the old water 

 works in West Chester, now inaccessible ; labradorite, sphene and 

 sunstone, the latter of great brilliancy, were found at Lamborn's 

 mill, one-half mile southeast of Kennett Square ; epidote crystals 

 occurred loose in the soil one mile south of the borough ; sunstone 

 is also found near Fairville. One-half mile north of Fairville, on 

 the farm of the late William Dilworth, muscovite crystals occur by 

 the hundred in the soil northwest of the house, near the woods. 



One-half mile south of Pennsville, on the farm of Jacob Swayne, 

 there is a large deposit of white quartz containing a few crystals of 

 feldspar, and large crystals and plates of muscovite beautifully 

 marked by magnetite and containing compressed crystallized quartz, 

 suitable for the microscope. Some almost perfect crystals from this 

 place measured eighteen inches by twelve or more. A large quan- 

 tity of merchantable mica was obtained. 



In quarrying for limestone in Chester Valley they occasionally find 

 openings or small caves filled with stalagmites and stalactites, some 

 of the latter being a foot or more in length ; a few brilliant crystals 

 of pyrite are sometimes found in the limestone, also fluorite and 

 quartz crystals; at the Pennsylvania Railroad quarry. East Cain 

 Township, ankerite. 



In the limestone on the Brandy wine Creek, about a mile above 

 Chadd's Ford, occurs chondrodite, the only locality of this mineral 

 in the region. 



The quarries in West Bradford Township, known as the Poor- 

 house quarries, were opened nearly one hundred years ago and are 

 in a magnesian limestone; in it are found the following minerals: — 

 chesterlite, quartz crystals, rutile in needle-like crystals, some trans- 

 parent and of a dark ruby color; tremolite and a yellow damourite 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19] 



in delicate tuft^ or rosettes. Some two miles to the southwest are 

 the Doe Run lime quarries. These have been extensively worked 

 for over half a century. In them have been found rutile, treniolite 

 and fluorite, the latter only as a thin crust of a deep purple color. 



In West Marlborough Township, two miles west of Unionville, 

 are Bailey's lime quarries, containing bladed mussite, crystallized 

 and fibrous tremolite in quantity. Brown and yellow tourmaline 

 in small crystals have also been found in this township. 



Limestone has been quarried extensively near the village of 

 Avondale in London Grove Township. Aragonite, brown tourma- 

 line, mountain leather, tremolite and very fine crystals of calcite are 

 the only minerals found in these quarries. 



Some years ago a large quarry was opened in the gneiss rocks 

 at Avondale, known as the Toughkenamon hills, and in it bright 

 red iron garnets in dodecahedral crystals were found by the 

 hundred, some of them being three and one-half inches in diametei', 

 also good crystals of tourmaline. A small specimen of graphite was 

 found in this quarry. 



Pyrite more or less altered into limonite of a shining dark brown 

 color in cubic crystals of all sizes up to one and one-half inches in 

 diameter are found loose in the soil in the toAvnship of East White- 

 land and Tredyfirin in abundance ; these are sometimes pure 

 limonite. 



In the year 1850 an iron mine was opened on the farm of the late 

 Gen. Trimble, in East Whiteland Township, and at the distance of 

 ten feet below the surface was found a horizontal vein of Avavellite 

 in stalactites, also radiated and occasionally crystallized. After a 

 few years the mine was abandoned and the locality lost for a time. 

 A shaft or well has since been dug twenty-five feet, striking one of 

 the old drifts and from it were taken a few very fine specimens. 

 Coeruleolactite was found in abundance when the mine was fir.«t 

 opened, but as it was thought of no value it was dumped into the 

 excavations left in mining the iron ore and many fine specimens 

 were lost to science. 



Rutile, or the mineral known in Sadsbury Township as money- 

 stone, is found loose in the soil for the distance of seven miles along 

 the Chester Valley and particularly near the village of Parkesburg 

 on the farm of Horace A. Beale where crystals have been fi)uud 

 weighing thiee quarters of a pound. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



In Uwchlan Township half a mile north of the Eagle tavern 

 massive blue quartz is found in abundance. Graphite is now being 

 mined quite extensively east of the tavern. 



A number of iron mines were opened in the vicinity of Kimber- 

 ton and Yellow Springs, fifty years ago, and many fine specimens of 

 limonite were found, also a half ton or more of a jet black limonite 

 known as melauosiderite. A fine specimen of allophaue was found 

 in one of the mines near, and is now in the Vaux collection. It is 

 the only one known from Chester County. 



A deposit of limonite was found in West Whiteland Township 

 adjoining the quarry known as Thomas' marble quarry, worked to the 

 depth of 180 feet in the year 1836, and after a few years abandoned. 

 The ore is principally of the variety known as pipe iron ore, but 

 some of it is of a rather different character, for the stalactites or pipes 

 instead of being radiated in structure were composed of concentric 

 layers, making a pipe within a pipe. The deposit being of a very 

 limited extent was soon worked out, and now no trace of it remains. 



The following minerals have been found at the Warwick mine 

 holes, at the village of St. Mary's: — magnetite in dodecahedral 

 crystals; actinolite, in small radiated geodes, and a jet black melan- 

 ite garnet in geodes, with a reddish mineral, said to be orthoclase. 



One mile west from St. Mary's are the old Hopewell mines, the 

 ore being magnetite crystallized in octahedrons, with an occasional 

 group of pyrite, and quartz pseudomorph after pyrite. 



One-half mile north from the village of Kuauertown are the cele- 

 brated mines known as the Mines of French Creek, being first 

 worked as Keim's iron mine, afterwards as the Elizabeth copper 

 mines ; now being mined for iron. The ore is magnetite mixed with 

 pyrite. Bright pyrite in octahedral crystals with numerous modifi- 

 cations occurs in the vein or wall of calcite ; there is also a vein of 

 chalcopyrite adjoining the iron ore vein. The chalcopyrite is crys- 

 tallized where it adjoins the calcite, making the finest specimens of 

 the mineral known to mineralogists. It also occurs in perfect, iso- 

 lated tetrahedra. Besides the above the following minerals occur : 

 calcite crystals, aplome garnet, stilbite, apophyllite in remarkable 

 specimens, byssolite, erythrite, hornblende and a feldspar pseudo- 

 morph after natrolite. 



At the lead mines near Pho?ni.\ville, known as the Wheatley and 

 Brookdale mine-, the following have l)een found:— anglesite, cerusite, 

 pyromorphito, wulfeuite, descloizite, niimetite, galenite, native cop- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



per, chalcopyrite, malachite, azurite, si)halerite, calamine, laumonite, 

 calcite, fluorite, limonite, native sulphur, oxide of manganese, pyrite, 

 barite, covellite. quartz and dolomite, melaconite, quartz pseudo- 

 morph after calcite, ankerite. 



Localities of DelawaPvE County. By J. T. M. Cardeza, ^I. D. 



The chief localities for minerals in Delaware County occur in 

 gneissic beds, many of which are isolated in areas of more schistose 

 rocks, or in or near the serpentine outcrops which abound in the 

 central part of the County. 



Perhaps the more prolific localities have been in or near the 

 Townships of Ridley and iSIiddletown. 



Ridley Toivnship. East of Chester and north of the River 

 Delaware, large quarries have been wrought for many years chiefly 

 in fine grained micaceous gneiss of considerable value for building 

 purposes and for curbstones. Of these Deshong and Leiper's on 

 Ridley Creek and Leiper and Lewis' on Crum Creek are most 

 noted. The gneiss itself contains rarely small garnets and tourma- 

 line, the rarer minerals occurring in coarse granitic veins, beds 

 or segregations in the gneiss. 



At Deshoug's quarry, as at Leiper's on Ridley Creek, the two 

 being in the same bed, good-sized brilliant garnets have been found 

 together with beryl in hexagonal prisms one-eighth of an inch to 

 one and one-half inches in diameter and from one inch to twelve 

 inches in length, usually jiale green and translucent, occasionally 

 bright green and transparent, and a number with fine well 

 terminated crystals. I have a specimen in my cabinet with replace- 

 ments of the prism faces giving it the appearance of a cylinder. 

 Small well terminated crystals of yellow beryl were found here. 



Beryls, some terminated, altered into a granular white substance 

 were recently found. I have in my possession a beryl from this 

 locality, one foot long, two inches in diameter, lying on a bed of crys- 

 tallized feldspar. Some very fine specimens of tourmaline occur, but 

 being very fragile, are rarely ol)tained entire ; muscovite is abundant 

 but poor. Autunnite and torbernite, in good specimens, in coarse 

 granite, have been obtained ; also more rarely uranochre. Fine crys- 

 tals of orthoclase of difierent forms have been found, both singly and 

 in groups, the crystals from one-half an inch to six or eight inches 

 in length. In a pocket was found thulite of a beautiful pink color ; 

 of this there were very fine specimens, some honeycombed and .some 




]94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



with a few small crystals. Leidyite, a hydrous silicate of iron, is 

 found in granular masses. I have noticed a similar occurrence at 

 Jones' Falls, Baltimore. I allude to the presence of chabazite 

 coated with leidyite and leidyite pseudomorph after chabazite, mak- 

 ing haydenite. In Deshong's quarry, in connection with the leidy- 

 ite, are the same zeolites as at Jones' Falls, viz.: stilbite, heuland- 

 ite and a few small specimens of beaumontite. In this pocket some 

 small but good crystals of chalybite occurred. Ward's quarry, 

 about one mile above Deshong's, between the Philadelphia Pike and 

 the Delaware River, is similar in geological chai'acteristics and is 

 largely wrought for its stone. Stilbite is found in fine, large radia- 

 tions. 



The quarry of Leiper and Lewis, at Avondale, on Crum Creek, 

 affords very fine garnets, some as much as two or three inches in 

 diameter, as well as very brilliant smaller ones, also tourmaline in 

 terminated crystals, but occurring usually in sections of about one 

 inch to one and a half inches in length, a stratum of granular quartz, 

 a quarter inch or less in thickness, breaking the continuity of the 

 crystal. Good crystallized orthoclase and beautiful crystals of adu- 

 laria are found in groups in which are sometimes found small, pale 

 green, or nearly white beryls, well crystallized, with modified ter- 

 minations. A few terminated yellow beryls have also been found- 

 Mr. Rand reports having collected in this quarry, chalcopyrite, 

 malachite, chrysocolla, hyalite of a bright green color, uranochre, 

 uraninite and bismutite, the last three in very small quantity. 

 Miss M. A. Holmes reports pink zoisite or thulite. At Folsom is a 

 small quarry opened for cellar foundation-stone, in which some good 

 garnets were recently found, one in my possession being as large as 

 a man's fist. In a quarry near Leiperville, owned by John 

 Deshong, but not at present worked, owing to the hardness of the 

 stone (a hornblende gneiss) some pretty garnets, one-half to three- 

 quarters of an inch in diameter, were found in a schistose bed in 

 the gneiss, with also stilbite of a yellow or orange color and in 

 radiations one and one-half to two inches in diameter. 



At Bullen'sLane.on Ridley Creek, a quarry, now owned by James 

 Irving but not at present worked, has yielded some very fine crys- 

 tallized orthoclase in modified forms, some very fine garnets from 

 one inch to one and one-half inches in diameter, crystallized musco- 

 vite in quartz, looking as if subjected to enormous compressing force, 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



the basal planes being ronnded and the crystal being not unlike 

 stone arrowheads in form. 



Chester Toionship. In the village of Upland on Chester Creek 

 near Chester, in a quarry formerly worked by Henvis, chabazite of 

 a red color was found. One specimen in possession of Michael 

 Bradley of Chester has with the chabazite, pectolite. Some good 

 crystallized orthoclase of a flesh color was found. 



On the Samuel Felton farm, Thurlow, is an altered natrolite in a 

 schistose rock. 



At Ship Creek, a tributary of Chester Creek, near Upland in 

 Samuel Crozer's quarry, garnets coated with autunnite, and one fine 

 doubly terminated crystallized orthoclase was found. 



In Shaw and Esray's quarry, near Chester, have been found 

 tourmaline, garnet (one as large as a man's fist) crystallized ortho- 

 clase, beryl, mostly in process of alteration, but good crystals of a 

 pale green color ; smoky quartz in large crystals. I have one in my 

 possession, fourteen inches long, one foot wide and about seven 

 inches thick, two planes of the prism being developed at the expense 

 of the four remaining. An amethyst of the same size and form was 

 also found here. Some good amethysts are found of a deep purple 

 color, also smoky quartz, in crystals six to eight inches long, and 

 three to four inches in diameter encrusted with well crystallized 

 amethysts of good color ; also a peculiar feldspar in crystals six to 

 eight inches long and four to six inches across, having the appear- 

 ance on the surface of having been eroded. 



At Cartertown, farm of Peter Green, near Chester, is the old 

 Chester molybdenite locality on Chester Creek above Upland. A 

 few crystals of this mineral were found, with a considerable quantity 

 of the massive mineral, disseminated in quartz, but at present it is 

 scarce. Molybdite occurs with it (Rand). In the same vicinity 

 was silliriianite. A crystal of beryl, of a pale green color, terminatedi 

 four inches long, one and a quarter inches thick, was found here in 

 a boulder of granular quartz, and is now in my possession. On this 

 property, on the creek shore, a mine was opened some years ago for 

 copper, but very little sulphide of copper Avas found, and the mine 

 was abandoned as it required constant pumping. 



At Bridgewater, on Chester Creek near Upland, in one of the 

 quarries of John Mullen, in h pocket in the schists, several fine hirge 

 crystals of sphene occurred, of a yellow and also of a light green 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



color, some two iuclies iu length. None have been found since, in 

 spite of diligent search. 



Darby Toivnship. On Bethel Custer's farm, Glenolden, are good 

 blue kyanite in long blades, and sillimanite. 



On the Philadelphia Turnpike, below White Horse tavern, in a 

 ditch on the west side of the road, blades of kyanite occur abun- 

 dantly, washed out by rains from a schist. 



On the farm attached to the White Horse tavern, are gray and 

 blue kyanite and sillimanite. 



In digging the cellar and foundation for a barn, on a farm opposite 

 the White Horse tavern, several large boulders of kyanite were 

 found, of a beautiful blue color with blades six to eight inches in 

 length. Along the little stream emptying into Darby Creek at 

 Morris' Ferry, many loose masses of kyanite have been worked out. 

 At Morris' Ferry, in the creek at low water, garnets of good quality 

 have been found in the mud. 



Near Landsdowne, smoky quartz, loose in the soil. Mr. Eand 

 has a crystal measuring nine by seven inches. 



Near Darby, titaniferous garnet. 



At U]iper Darby, in a cutting of the proposed Chester County 

 Railroad, Babel quartz and modified quartz crystals, orthoclase 

 crystals. 



Nether Providence Toivnship. On the farm of George Sharpless, 

 on Providence road above Shoemakerville about three miles above 

 Chester, a small quarry was opened for stone to pike the road lead- 

 ing to Media, and some remarkable crystals of feldspar doubly 

 terminated and variously modified were found, some eighteen inches 

 by twelve inches were taken out, and at present several are in my 

 possession ; also green mica in pretty specimens. In digging a post 

 hole opposite the mansion, a pocket of amethyst was discovered. 

 About a half dozen fine crystals, one and a half to two inches in 

 size and of a deep purple color were obtained. 



Near Swarthmore College, andalusite and black tourmaline, not 

 terminated, but the whole crystal tapering from the base in a long 

 cone shape, are found, also orthoclase. 



Howard Lewis' fiirm. Andalusite, tourmaline, yellow beryl. 

 The andalusite crystals were imbedded in quartz, sonie very large 

 crystals were obtained and some remarkably perfect. A group in 

 the collection of Mr. Theo. D. Rand contains one crvstal nearlv 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



perfect on three of its four prismatic planes, and perfectly 

 terminated at both ends. 



Upper Providence. On Thomas Reese's farm, orthoclase, cassi- 

 nite, sunstoue and moonstone in striated oligoclase, corundum. 



At Blue Hill, prase in magnificent specimens, asbestus, chryso- 

 tile in fibres two, and two and one-half inches in length, actinolite, 

 drusy quartz and chromite in large crystals. 



Lower Chichester and Vicinity. On farm of William Trainer, on 

 a knoll near the Linwood mill dam, were found crystals of ortho- 

 clase and tourmaline, and large crystals of beryl of a pale green 

 color, some mottled yellow and green externally and pale green 

 internally, opaqne, two inches in diameter. I have in my possession 

 a specimen from this place, one foot in length and an inch and a 

 half in diameter, Avith another crystal, about six inches long and one 

 inch in diameter attached to it at right angles, I have also a spec- 

 imen two and one half inches in diameter with replacements on the 

 termination. This beryl occurs in a granular quartz, in boulders 

 one to ten feet below the surface, although large specimens have 

 been ploughed up on the surface. There is a deposit of good 

 kaolin near the spring house on the same farm. 



In quarry of Benjamin Johnson, garnets. 



On Robert Loughead's farm, kaolin. 



On farm of Matthew Boyd, some specimens of blue kyanite have 

 been found. 



Upper Chichester. A few good garnets, of the spessartite variety, 

 about one inch in diameter, were found in the feldspar quarry of 

 John B. McCay, on the north branch of Naaman's Creek. 



On the same farm, in a wash-out of the Baltimore and Ohio Rail- 

 road, many fine spessartite garnets were found in a feldspar deposit 

 which occurred in broken blocks, presenting almost the appearance 

 of masonry ; some good sphene of a yellow color, from a half inch to 

 one inch in length, are also found here. 



In the same neighborhood, on the farm of J. B. Okie, amethyst 

 crystals have been found. Of these one has been cut and mounted 

 as a gem. 



Farm of John Carrol, adjoining that of J. B. Okie, a quarry of 

 feldspar, for the manufacture of porcelain and for dental purposes, 

 has been opened. 



Near Chelsea, on the farm of Stephen White, green garnet, 

 gahnite, and flattened garnet, in mica occur. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Asto7i. Farm of Wm. Hanuum, near Village Green, a large 

 deposit of asbestus of good quality is found and is about to be mined. 



Oil Judge Tyson's farm, near Village Green, acicular tourmaline. 



On Brown's farm, adjoining Judge Tyson's, bronze corundum, 

 corundum passing into margarite, and margarite pseudomorph 

 after corundum. 



An old and prolific deposit of amethyst was on Chester Creek 

 near Button's mill. A vein runs across the road which leads from 

 Judge Tyson's to Button's mill, and large numbers of crystallized 

 amethysts have been dug out for years and probably by deeper 

 digging many more can be secured. This amethyst is of a beautiful 

 purple color. A new road Avas laid out a few years ago along Chester 

 Creek from Upland to Button's mills on the east side of the creek, and 

 on the McCall farm a pocket of fine amethyst of good color was 

 found. On the farm connected with the Button's mills are boulders 

 of antholite. On farm of Thomas Pancoast, asbestus. 



Korth of Buttou's mills some remarkable crystals of muscovite 

 were found. 



At Llewellen, staurolite. 



On John Halberset's farm, enstatite, drusy quartz, hornblende. 

 Near Morgan Station, quartz crystals, modified, with implanted 

 minute crystals of ruby colored rutile. 



Bethel Township. On a farm at one time occupied by James 

 Lancaster a large deposit of granular garnet is now largely mined 

 by a company for the manufacture of sand paper. It is said to be 

 a very superior article. Some gems have been found here. At 

 Green's Creek above Chelsea, garnets have been washed out of the 

 sand of the creek bed. Some fine gems have been cut from garnets 

 from this locality. 



Concord. About one mile above Chelsea, on the farm of Harry 

 Hannum, a large rock about twenty feet in diameter and about ten 

 feet high rose up solitary on the lot. This rock consisted of antho- 

 lite in radiations from three to four inches in diameter. It presented 

 a peculiar and striking 'appearance before it was partly blasted 

 away. 



On the Singer farm, antholite and enstatite were abundant, clino- 

 chlore also occurs. 



On Samuel McClellan's farm, asbestus, clinochlore, tourmaline. 



On Mary Palmer's farm, bronzite, diaclasite, a beautiful mineral 

 in vellow fibres one to two inches long. Of this mineral Bana gives 




1892.] NATURAL KIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



no American locality. Enstatite and autliolite in pretty varieties 

 are found. 



On Randolph farm, Rose tree, amethyst in the soil, a manganese 

 sand. 



On James Worral's farm, andalusite, fine large crystals, some 

 large groups. A cry.<tal, nine inches long two and one-half inches 

 thick, is in the possession of Joseph Willcox. Very fine crystallized 

 amethyst, two and a half inches by eight inches, and many smaller 

 ones of a deep purple color, beryl, apatite, tourmaline have also 

 been found. 



Morgan Hunter's farm near the Rose Tree Inn, andalusite, several 

 fine crystallized amethysts. I have one from this locality three by 

 three inches of a deep blue color; amouite after andalusite; antho- 

 lite after andalusite. 



Middletown. On Joel Sharpless' farm, a quarry was opened 

 about five years ago for feldspar and a considerable quantity taken 

 out, when it was abandoned. A very large deposit of mica, trans- 

 parent and colorless except for some included magnetite markings, 

 was found and utilized for stove doors. Beautiful mici-osco])ic 

 crystals of quartz occur occasionally between the laminse, also very 

 pretty flattened crystalline films of quartz. Beryls mostly altered 

 entirely or in process of alteration, terminated or in terminated sec- 

 tions, varying from one inch to nine inches in diameter, and from 

 one inch to fifteen inches in length were found. I have one in my 

 cabinet, seven inches in diameter and fifteen inches in length, very 

 little altered, terminated and of a pale green color, but opaque. 

 Gahnite in small crystals was found, also small flattened green 

 garnets. Rand reports finding rose quartz near the quarry ; along 

 the road adjoining Isaac Evans' farm occur orthoclase and mus- 

 covite. 



On Albert Darlington's fsirm, orthoclase. 



On Humphrey Marshall's farm, amethyst in a quartz vein in 

 hornblende rock, rutile in crystallized amethyst. 



On John Tyler's farm. Dismal run, crystallized rutile, sillimanite, 

 vermiculite in small crystals, ferruginous quartz, prase in^mammil- 

 lary masses. 



At Bishop's mill, garnets, some very fine ones, two inches in 

 diameter, plumose mica. 



On Walker Yarnall's farm, ca.ssiiiite, smoky quartz, some good 

 specimens. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892 



On Edward Siuedley's farm, large boulders of corundum, asbestu?, 

 talc, muscovite, translucent across the prisms. 



On George Williams' farm, corundum. 



On John Smedley's farm, a few fine crystals of corundum. 



On Phillip Mullin'sfarra, near Black Horse, some fine crystallized 

 corundum was ploughed up in the soil, and collected after heavy 

 rains. 



In the ditch, on the west side of the road, going towards the 

 Black Horse, and opposite the Mullen farm, many crystals of corun- 

 dum have been picked up, washed out after heavy rains. 



On a farm opposite P. Mullen's, corundum in albite has been 

 found. A large pit was sunk and crystallized corundum, of a gray 

 color and of a good quality for commercial purposes, was obtained. 

 Many doubly terminated crystals from one to two inches long were 

 found. 



On Ahinam Smedley's farm, corundum, albite, beryl, (some good 

 ones), columbite, fergusonite, asbestus. 



At Mineral Hill, farm of Lewis Moore, rock chrome, abundant. 



In Crump's Mineral Hill serpentine quarry, magnesite, chlorite, 

 deweylite, talc. 



On John Smith's farm, near Black Horse, beryl, of a dark emer- 

 ald-green color, in good crystals, out of which some gems have been 

 cut. Albite, vermiculite, tourmaline, sunstone, moonstone, colum- 

 bite have also been found. A pit was dug for corundum and good 

 specimens obtained ; fibrous hornblende, actinolite of various shades 

 of color, and enstatite, have been collected. 



Near Institute for Feeble Minded Children, stilbite, drusy quartz, 

 hypersthene. 



At the " old chimney," north of Crump's quarry, Avas a small 

 quarry for green feldspar yielding fine cleavage masses of a beautiful 

 green color ; some good crystals were found, but all more or less 

 weathered. Sunstone, moonstone, columbite, a vein half an inch to 

 an inch thick of an undetermined black mineral have also been 

 collected. 



On Robert Moss* farm, garnet and stauiolite, in schist. 



On "Walter Beatty's farm, hornblende, titaniferous iron. 



On AVilliam Bonsai's farm, smoky quartz, actinolite, drusy quartz. 



On Charles Mills' farm, enstatite, marmolite, asbestus, boulders 

 containing clinochlore. 



On Samuel Jackson's farm, radiated tourmaline. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



On Rev. Mr. Ross' farm, pyrite. 



On Samuel Wells' farm, magnetite. 



On Mathew Dobson's farm, rutile. 



On Jesse Hibbard's farm, near Black Horse, chrome sand in 

 washings containing good crystals, and rarely brookite. Actinolite 

 of a deep green color. Moonstone in very fine specimens, stalactitic 

 magnesite, bronzite, corundum in albite. 



On road leading from Lima to Wawa, amethyst. 



On Media Railroad, near Williamson school, chrysolite. 



On Christian Scherz's farm. Black Horse, a peculiar chromic iron 

 and hematitic iron intermixed with corundum. 



At Edgar Tyson's Black Horse Tavern, on road going towards 

 Rockdale, one hundred and fifty yards below blacksmith shop, 

 corundum. 



Several mines have been started in Middletown of late years for 

 iron ore but have been abandoned, the ore not proving abundant. 

 Some good showy specimens of limonite were found. 



At Lenni, at the deep cut of the Media Railroad, vermiculite of a 

 deep green color, also of a bronze and a white color. Leelite, 

 lennilite, delawarite and actinolite, also several masses of small 

 quartz crystals of a pale green color were collected. A serpentine 

 quarry was opened here. 



Edgemont. On Alfred James' farm, beryl. 



At and near Castle Rock, enstatite, asbestus, chrysotile, talc, 

 limonite in fine specimens showing fibres three inches long, ferru- 

 ginous quartz, some closely resembling compostella quartz, also, in 

 cavities of honeycomb quartz, microscopic quartz crystals doubly 

 terminated and bright red in color. Under the microscope the 

 crystals are colorless and transparent but each contains a minute 

 red speck which colors the whole to the naked eye. These make 

 beautiful microscopic objects. 



Marple. On Major Jones' farm chromic iron. 



On Abby AYorral farm, andalusite, some good specimens; in the 

 public road near the mansion, amethyst. 



On Samuel Sharpless' farm, andalusite, tourmaline. 



On Albert Worral farm, tourmaline. 



On all the farms passing north, andalusite. 



Radnor Township. Moro Philips' chrome mine, chromite, garnet, 

 sphene, asbestus, steatite, limonite, magnetite. 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Passing north into Radnor enstatite and asbestiform antholite and 

 antholite containing bronzite and diaclasite are found. 



On Mary Pabner's farm in the triangle between the Coopertown- 

 Newtown road, Roberts road and Chester and Radnor road, antho- 

 lite is abundant. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE BRAIN OF THE GORILLA. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



The brain of the Gorilla has been described by Gratiolet\ Owen'', 

 Pansch\ Thane*, BischofF^ and Broca®. It should be mentioned, 

 however, that the brains described by Gratiolet and Owen were in 

 such a decomposed condition as to admit of but little more than a 

 very general description, while the brain described by Pansch was 

 the same that was afterwards described by Thane and Bischoff. 

 Thane, moreover, does not appear to have ever seen the brain of the 

 Gorilla he described, his remarks being based upon copies of the figures 

 illustrating Pansch's paper. Bischoff, however, had the opportunity 

 of studying the brain itself, the specimen previously described by 

 Pansch having been submitted to him for examination, at his request, 

 by Dr. Bolau. Finally, the brain described by Broca differed so 

 much from that described by Bischoff that the latter wrote to Broca 

 to say that he believed the brain described by the latter was not 

 that of a Gorilla at all, but that of a Chimpanzee. It was un- 

 doubtedly, however, a Gorilla's brain. Since then Pansch has had 

 the opportunity of dissecting three other Gorilla's brains the exam- 

 ination of which confirms his previous conclusions, based upon the 

 brain of the Gorilla studied by Bischoff and himself 



It will be seen from the above resume of the literature of the 

 subject, that the opportunities of studying the brain of the Gorilla 

 have been very few. In fact up to the present time, of the few 

 Gorilla brains that have been obtained, supposing that described by 

 Broca to have been a Gorilla, only five were in such a condition 

 when received as to permit of description. It is to be hoped, there- 

 fore, that the following brief description of the brain of the Gorilla 

 obtained in the neighborhood of the Gaboon river by the Rev. R. 

 H. Nassau and presented by him to the Academy, through the cour- 

 tesy of Dr. T. G. Morton, together with two others to be mentioned 

 hereafter, will not be considered as suiierfluous, especially as it 

 differs in several respects from the brains previously described. 



1 Compies Rendus, I860. 



^ Fullerian lecture, reported in Athenteum, March 23id, 1861. 



* Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenscliaften, Hamburg, 1876, 

 Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Anat. und Phys., 1879. 



* Nature, Dec. 14th, 1876. 



^Sitzungsberichte Acad, der Wissenschaften zu Miinchen, Band vii, 1877. 



* Revue Anthropologique, 1878. 




204 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The brain, that of a young Gorilla, weighed one hundred and fifty 

 grammes and measured ninety millimetres in length, seventy-five mil- 

 limetres in breadth and sixty millimetres in height and was somewhat 

 smaller than either of the brains previously described by Pansch and 

 Broca. Each hemisphere of the cerebrum of the Gorilla, like that 

 of man, is incompletely divided by more or less well defined and deep 

 fissures into the following five divisions or lobes, viz: the frontal, 

 parietal, occipital, temporal, and central lobes. The fissure of Sylv- 

 ius, PI. XI, fig. 2 S, begins at the base of the hemisphere behind the 

 origin of the olfactory nerves, and laterally from the optic chiasma. 

 Passing thence outwardly it reaches the arched lateral surface of the 

 hemisphere and divides into two branches. The posterior branch, PI. 

 XI, fig. 2 S', the longest of the two passing obliquely upward and back- 

 ward terminates in the supra-marginal convolution of the parietal 

 lobe. The anterior vertical branch, PI. XI, fig. 2 S", the smallest of 

 the two into which the Sylvian fissure divides, passing obliquely for- 

 ward and then upwaixl and slightly backward, terminates in that 

 part of the third frontal convolution which is situated below the 

 second frontal fissure and in front of the pre-central fissure. The 

 anterior horizontal branch, the third into which the Sylvian fissure 

 divides in the brain of Man, and usually undescribed even in special 

 works upon the brain, while absent in this specimen appears to have 

 been present in the brain of the Gorilla described by Broca. It 

 should be mentioned in this connection, that this fissure, regarded by 

 Broca as being the anterior horizontal branch of the fissure of 

 Sylvius, was described by Pansch as the anterior vertical branch,, 

 and by Bischoff as the orbital branch, both Bischoff and Broca 

 regarding the slight indentation above but not passing into the pos- 

 terior branch of the Sylvian fissure, as the ascending vertical branch. 

 Such an indentation is present, at least in the right hemisphere of 

 the brain of the Gorilla under consideration, but we cannot attach to 

 it the morphological significance attributed to it. 



The difference in interpretation of this fissure may be due to 

 the fact of the brains described by Bischoff and Broca differing from 

 each other and from that now described. Within the angle formed 

 by the anterior and posterior branches of the Sylvian fissure may be 

 seen, on the right side at least, of the brain of our Gorilla, the fifth 

 lobe or island of Reil, the operculum leaving it partly uncovered. 

 On the left side of the brain, however, the operculum fits so closely 

 into the angle just referred to, that the island of Reil is completely 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 205 



concealed. The operculum in the brain of the Gorilla, as in that of 

 Man, is'fornied partly by the lower ends of the two central convolu- 

 tions where they pass into each other, and partly by portions of the 

 third frontal convolution and lower parietal lobule. The fissure of 

 Sylvius, with its posterior branch, separates the frontal and parietal 

 lobes from the temporal lobe. The central fissure, or fissure of 

 Rolando, PI. XI, figs. 1 , 2 R, invariably present in the human brain as 

 well as in that of most monkeys, is well marked in the brain of the 

 Gorilla. Beginning on the upper surface of the hemisphere, slightly 

 posterior to the middle line, it passes obliquely forward and down- 

 ward to terminate near the upper border of the posterior branch of 

 the Sylvian fissure, and is larger in the left than in the right hemi- 

 sphere. The central fissure divides quite naturally in the Gorilla 

 the frontal from the parietal lobes upon the ui)per surface 

 of the Jiemisphere. The central fissure in its whole length is 

 bordered, as in Man, by two convolutions, the anterior and posterior 

 central convolutions, PI. XI, fig. 2 a, b. The former we regard as 

 belonging to the frontal, the latter to the parietal lobes. It has 

 already been mentioned that the lower ends of the two central convo- 

 lutions, where they pass into each other around the end of the central 

 fissure, enter into the formation of the operculum. 



While this is the case in the left hemisphere, it is not strictly 

 so in the right one, since the central fissure is not only shorter 

 on the right side than on the left, but also on account of the pre- 

 central fissure on the right side being longer than on the left, it 

 passes down in front of the central fissure and almost reaches the 

 posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure. The anterior central convolu- 

 tion, PI. XI, figs. 1,2 a, may be considered as giving origin at diflferent 

 levels from above downward to the superior, middle and inferior 

 frontal convolutions, PL XI, figs. 2 c, d, e. The superior or first 

 frontal convolution, PI. XI, fig. 2 c, is separated from the middle 

 or second frontal convolution, PI. XI, fig. 2 d, by the first frontal 

 fissure, and the second frontal convolution, PI. XI, fig. 2 d, from 

 the inferior or third frontal convolution, PI. XI, fig. 2 e, by the 

 second frontal fissure. It is impossible to say whether the con- 

 volution, which, passing downward and forward and bending 

 around reaches the orbital surface of the frontal lobe, should be re- 

 garded as the continuation of the first or second frontal convolution 

 or not. That the inferior part of the frontal lobe of the brain of the 

 Gorilla, PI. XI, fig. 2 e, should be regarded as homologous with at least 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



part of the third or inferior frontal convolution of the brain of Man, 

 is shown by the fact that the convolution in question not only sur- 

 rounds the end of the anterior vertical branch of the Sylvian fissure, 

 but its inferior lower part passes as an arched convolution under 

 the operculum into the island of Reil. As a confirmation of this 

 view it will be observed that the pre-central fissure, into which the 

 second frontal fissure runs, PL XI, fig. 2 d, passes downward between 

 the anterior vertical branch of the fissure of Sylvius and the central 

 fissure. The frontal lobes of the Gorilla differ, however, from those 

 of Man in their anterior portion terminating in a point. The 

 inferior or third frontal convolution in the brain of the Gorilla 

 differs, especially from the corresponding convolution in Man, in not 

 only being relatively smaller but in its orbital surface being hollowed 

 out to such an extent that the portion of the inferior frontal con- 

 volution which in man surrounds or is below the anterior branch of 

 the fissure of Sylvius, is absent. Indeed this should be so if, as we 

 have just supposed, the anterior horizontal branch of the fissure of 

 Sylvius is absent. It is hardly to be expected, therefore, that in 

 addition to the olfactory fissure both the orbital fissure and the 

 solco cruciform of Rolando' should be present in the brain of the 

 Gorilla, especially as the fissures on the orbital surface of the frontal 

 lobe in the brain of Man are variable in form. Only one fissure, 

 in addition to the olfactory, is present in the orbital surface of 

 the frontal lobe of the Gorilla's brain, and that resembles in both 

 hemispheres rather the cruciform than the orbital fissure of Man. 



If the interpretation just offered of the convolutions of the 

 frontal lobe of the brain of the Gorilla be correct, it follows that the 

 frontal lobe of the brain of the monkeys below the Gibbon must 

 consist essentially of only two convolutions, the superior and 

 middle frontal, the inferior frontal convolution being in them 

 but little developed, as in Macacus, or absent altogether as in 

 Cercopithecus. If such be the case then the convolution in monkeys 

 described by Gratiolet^ as being the inferior or third frontal 

 must be regarded as being the middle or second frontal con- 

 volution, the inferior frontal convolution being but little, if at 

 all developed. The view just offered, advanced also by Bischofl^,* 

 as to the nature of the convolutions of the frontal lobe in the 



^Memorie della R. Accad. delle Scienze di Torino. 1829, T. XXXV. 

 ^ Memoire sur les plis ceiebraux de rHomme ei des Primates. 

 ^Beilrage zur Anatomie des Hylobates leuciscii-, p. 78, Miinchen, 1870. 



I 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



primates, if correct, has a physiological as well as a morphological 

 significauee when considered in connection with the localization by 

 Broca and other observers of the centre of articulate language in the 

 inferior or third frontal convolution. For if the centre of speech be 

 localized in that convolution, in its absence, though the larvnx and 

 nerves involved be present, the nervous plexus being incomplete, 

 speech becomes impossible. The parietal lobe anteriorly is separated 

 from the frontal lobe by the central fissure, posteriorly from the 

 occipital by the external and internal occipital fissures and laterallv 

 and inferiorly, at least in great part, from the temporal lobe by the 

 posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure. The posterior central con- 

 volution, the most anterior portion of the parietal lobe, mav be 

 regarded as giving origin to the superior and inferior parietal 

 lobules which, passing backward towards the occipital lobe, are 

 separated by the parietal fissure, PL XI, fig. 2. 



The parietal fissure begins above and a little beyond the middle 

 of the posterior branch of the Sylvian fissure and passes upward 

 and forward, then obliquely upward and backward, and having 

 nearly reached the top of the hemisphere turns again and finally 

 passes into the external occipital fissure. Of the three secondary 

 fissures of the superior parietal lobule, the most noticeable is that 

 upon the surface of the hemisphere, just posterior to the central 

 fissure which resembles very much in its form the cruciform 

 fissure of the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. Of the convolu- 

 tions entering into the formation of the inferior parietal lobule we 

 regard those surrounding the terminations of the Sylvian and 

 superior temporal fissures as being the supramarginal and angular 

 convolutions. 



The mesial surface of the parietal lobe of our Gorilla was not as 

 well preserved as the remaining parts of the brain, nevertheless that 

 part of it lying between the ascending branch of the calloso-marginal 

 and internal occipital fissures was identified as prsecuneus. The occip- 

 ital lobe, forming the posterior portion of tlie hemisphere, is separated 

 from the parietal lobe raesially and internally by the internal occipital 

 fissure, and externally and laterally by the external occipital fissure. 

 There are, however, no distinct boundaries between the occipital lobe 

 laterally and inferiorly and the parietal and temporal lobes, the 

 occipital passing continuously into the latter lobes as the occipital 

 and occipito-temporal convolutions. The internal and external 

 occipital fissures in the brain of the Gorilla might be viewed when 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



taken together as correspondiug to the parieto-occipital fissure in 

 the brain of Man, supposing the latter to be broader and bridged 

 over by the first occipital convolution. It appears to us, however, 

 as more probable that the internal occipital fissure alone in the 

 Gorilla should be regarded as homologous with the parieto-occipital 

 fissure in Man, the external occipital fissure in the Gorilla corre- 

 sponding to the fissure described in the brain of Man as the trans- 

 verse occipital fissure. That the latter view is the correct one is 

 still further shown by the fact already referred to of the pai-ietal 

 fissure passing into the transverse occipital fissure, which is often the 

 case in Man. On the mesial, as well as upon the superior surface, 

 the occipital is as distinctly separated from the parietal lobe by the 

 parieto-occipital fissure in the brain of the Gorilla as in the brain of 

 Man. It should be mentioned, however, that in the brain of the Gor- 

 illa the parieto-occipital does not reach the calcarine fissure, as is usu- 

 ally the case in the brain of Man, the two fissures being separated 

 by a distinct convolution, the "deuxieme plis de passage interne" 

 of Gratiolet, the " untere immere Scheitelbogen wiudung" of 

 Bischoff". That is, the part of the occipital lobe described in the 

 brain of Manas the wedge-shaped convolution or cuneus is divided 

 in the brain of the Gorilla into an upper and larger, and a lower and 

 smaller portion. A similar disposition usually obtains in the brain 

 of the anthropoids and the lower monkeys, though this convolution 

 may be absent on one side at least, as was observed by the author^ 

 in the case of a Chimpanzee. On the other hand, it should be men- 

 tioned, as stated several years ago by the author in- a communica- 

 tion made to this Academy, that he had observed this convolution, 

 that is, the " deuxieme plis de passage interne " of Gratiolet, in the 

 brain of Man, and he takes this opportunity of calling attention to 

 its presence in the brain of the white man as well as in that of the 

 negro. 



The calcarine fissure in the brain of the Gorilla passed into the 

 hippocampal fissure, the convolution of the hippocampus being 

 thereby separated from the convolution of the corpus callosum. In 

 this respect the brain of the Gorilla agrees with that of the remain- 

 ing anthropoids and lower monkeys, in which the calcarine usually 

 passes into the hippocampal fissure. In the brain of the Gorilla 

 described by Broca, however, the calcarine did not reach the hippo- 



1 Proceedings A. N. S., Phila., 1879. 



2 Proceedings A. N. S., Phila., 1880. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



campal fissure, the convolution of the hippocampus passing continu- 

 ously into the convolution of the corpus callosum, a disposition 

 sometimes observed in other anthropoids and monkeys, as in the 

 Chimpanzee, Gibbon and Spider Monkey, and which, with few ex- 

 ceptions, obtains in Man. The first occipital convolution, already 

 referred to as separating the parietal and occipital lobes, in winding 

 around the transverse occipital and the parieto-occipital fissures, 

 PI. XII, fig. 3P, forms an arch convex inward, then convex outward, 

 serving to connect the occipital with the parietal lobe, PI. XII, fig. 

 3 p, and more especially with the supramai-ginal lobule of the latter. 

 Hence the various names, annectant, bridging convolutions, premier 

 plis.de passage ex terne, obere immereScheitelbogen windung, given to 

 this convolution as well as that of first occipital convolution. 



This bridging or arching convolution is well developed in 

 both hemispheres of the brain of the Gorilla, that of the right 

 hemisphere being slightly less superficial than that of the left. On 

 neither side of the brain, PI. XII, fig. 3, of the Gorilla 

 can it be said, however, that there exists an operculum, 

 so striking a feature in the brain of the Chimpanzee and 

 of the lower monkeys. The second occipital convolution, lying 

 behind the transverse occipital fissure and outside the first 

 occipital convolution, passes into the parietal lobe and more partic- 

 ularly into the angular convolution of the latter. The third occip- 

 ital convolution, better denned on the right side than on the left 

 in the brain of our Gorilla, passes from the posterior extremity of the 

 hemisphere into the second and third temporal convolutions, PI. XI, 

 fig. 2 u, V. Unfortunately the inferior surface of the occipital 

 lobe of our specimen was too much altered to admit of exact descrip- 

 tion. Judging from what remains of it as compared with the cor- 

 responding part of the brains described by Bischoft'and Broca, the 

 lateral and median occipito-temporal convolutions must have been 

 present and well defined. The temporal lobe, while distinctly sep- 

 arated from the frontal and parietal lobes by the Sylvian fissure, 

 passes without defined boundaries, as just seen, into the occipital 

 lobe and consists essentially of three convolutions. The superior 

 temporal convolution, PI. XI, fig. 2 t, lying between the fissure of 

 -Sylvius and the superior temporal fissure, passes obliquely upward 

 :and backward into the superior marginal convolution. The middle 

 temporal convolution, lying between the superior temporal and 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



inferior temporal convolutions, passes partly into the angular convolu- 

 tion and partly into the occipital lobe. The inferior temporal convolu- 

 tion, PI. XI, fig. 2V, lying below the inferior temporal fissure, passes 

 into the occipital lobe. The fifth lobe, insula or island of Reil, 

 lying between the frontal, parietal and temporal lobes, is but little 

 developed in the brain of our Gorilla, much less so than in the brain 

 of the Chimpanzee described by the author. The insula, while 

 entirely covered by the operculum on the left hemisphere, is but 

 partly so in the right. Unfortunately the hemispheres were so 

 altered on the mesial surface in the hippocampal region as to render 

 impossible the demonstration of the lateral ventricle with its hippo- 

 campus major and minor, etc. Inasmuch, however, as the parts in 

 question were demonstrated by the author in the brains of the Orang 

 and Chimpanzee, as had been done previously by others, doubtless 

 they existed in the brain of our Gorilla. As to the remaining parts of 

 the brain of the Gorilla the medulla and pons did not present any espe- 

 cially noticeable peculiarites. The cerebellum, PL XII, fig. 4, however, 

 was not only absolutely but relatively smaller than that of Man or of 

 the Chimpanzee or Orang, and was entirely covered by the cerebrum, 

 the posterior or occipital lobes extending beyond the cerebellum to 

 an extent of several millimetres, and this though the brain had 

 been lying in alcohol for many months. 



The cerebellum was entirely covered, as was also the case in the 

 two other brains of the Gorilla already referred to as having been 

 too much altered to admit of description. It was equally well cov- 

 ered in the brain of the adult Gorilla sent many years ago by the 

 Rev. Mr. Nassau to Dr. Morton but which was unfortunately in such 

 a condition in other respects as to render it unfit for description. It 

 may be mentioned incidentally that the cerebellum of the Chim- 

 panzee is larger than that of either the Gorilla or Orang, and it 

 would appear that while it is entirely covered by the cerebrum in 

 the adult or nearly adult animal, it is partly uncovered by the 

 cerebrum in the young animal. At least of three Chimpanzees dis- 

 sected by the author, in the two young animals it was demonstrated 

 before the brain was taken out of the skull that the cerebellum 

 was not covered by the cerebrum, and the same condition was 

 observed in the brain of the young Chimpanzee dissected by Mr. 

 Arthur E. Brown, Superintendent of the Philadelphia Zoological 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 211 



Garden, as well as in those described by Bischoff/ Muller/ 

 Giacomini.^ In the third Chimpanzee, a nearly adult animal dis- 

 sected by the author, the cerebellum was entirely covered by the 

 cerebrum, and such was stated to be the case in the brain of the 

 Chimpanzee described many years ago by Marshall.* Of eight 

 Chimpanzee brains, in six the cerebellum was found uncovered by 

 the cerebrum, in two covered. 



In a previous communication addressed to the Academy^ 

 it was stated that no one anthropoid ape was more closely 

 related to Man in the totality of its organization than another 

 and that no anthropoid now known could be regarded as the 

 ancestor of the other anthropoids, still less as the ancestor of 

 Man, each anthropoid agreeing in some respects with related forms 

 and with Man and differing from them in others. A comparison of 

 the brain of the Gorilla with that of the Orang, Chimpanzee and Man 

 confirms the conclusion then arrived at. While the fissures and 

 convolutions are disposed as we have seen in the brain of the Gorilla 

 in the same manner, generally speaking, as in that of Man or of the 

 Chimpanzee or Orang, it is nevertheless a low type of brain, being 

 much less convoluted than the brain of Man or of either of the two 

 other anthropoids. It might be supposed that this was due to the 

 fact of the brain just described being that of a young animal. That 

 such, however, is not the case is shown by the two other brains of 

 the Gorilla not being any more convoluted, though both of them 

 were larger and heavier and from older animals. 



The brain of the Gorilla further differs from that of Man or of the 

 Chimpanzee or Orang in the markedly pointed shape of its frontal 

 lobe, in the absence of the lower portion of the inferior or third 

 frontal convolution, and in its orbital surface being so concave. With 

 reference to this portion of the frontal lobe in the Gorilla it may be 

 incidentally mentioned that the corresponding part in the brain of 

 the Chimpanzee and especially in that of the Orang, presents the 

 cruciform and orbital fissures disposed exactly as in Man, the 

 orbital fissure being readily distinguished from the anterior branches 

 of the Sylvian fissure. Had all these fissures been present in the 

 brain of their Gorilla the interpretation of the orbital fissure 



^ Gehirn des Champanzee, 1871. 



- Archiv fur Anthropologic, 1887. 



3 Atti della J^. Accad. Torino, 1889. 



* Natural History Review, 1801. 



*Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences Philad., 1880. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1862. 



would not have given rise to the discussion between Pansch and 

 Bischoff already referred to. On the other hand the Gorilla agrees 

 with the Orang in the superficial disposition of the occipital con- 

 volutions, the operculum, so conspicuous a feature in the brain of 

 the Chimpanzee, being absent. If it be permitted in the absence of 

 living links or sufficient fossil remains to speculate upon the devel- 

 opment of Man and the anthropoids from lower forms of simian life it 

 might be inferred from the character of the brain that the Gorilla 

 had descended from some extinct Cynocephalus ; the Chimpanzee 

 and Orang from extinct Macacque and Gibbon-like forms, and 

 Man from some generalized simian form combining in itself the 

 characteristics of existing anthropoids. The remote ancestors of 

 such extinct forms, to recede still farther in geologic time, such 

 as Necroleynur of Filhol, Notharctus of Leidy, Limnotherium of 

 Marsh, Anaptomorjyhiis of Cope, the latter the most simian 

 Lemur yet discovered, resembled, as their names imply, the living 

 Lemurs of the present day, intermediate forms connecting the extinct 

 and existing genera having once lived but having now passed away. 

 Notwithstanding the value and importance of the remains of Meso- 

 donts, Prosimise and Lemurs discovered, especially by Leidy, Marsh 

 and Cope, in the eocene formations of the Rocky Mountains, a much 

 more complete series of simian remains than is now available must 

 be placed at the disposal of the evolutionist before even a general out- 

 line of the geneology of Man and the remaining primates can be 

 established. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



ON THE ANATOMY OF SAGDA, CYSTICOPSIS, ^GISTA AND 

 DENTELLARIA. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Sagda (Hyalosagda) similis C. B. Adams. .(PI. XIII, figs. A. B. C. D. E.) 



The specimens were collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson at Port 

 Antonio, Jamaica, in April, 1891. They were killed by drowning. 



The foot is very long and narrow, measuring length 20, breadth 

 in the middle, 3 mm. The sides of the sole are subparallel. The 

 sole (PI. XIII, fig. E, s.) has a central longitudinal sulcus, but is not 

 tripartite. Above, the foot is granulated. 



The jaw (PI. XIII, fig. D.) is delicate, thin and arcuate, having 

 no median projection. It resembles somewhat the jaw oi Microphysa 

 and Bidimulus, seeming to be composed of twenty-seven narrow 

 vertical plates, soldered together, but slightly overlapping on their 

 outer edges. This shingle-like imbrication is not, however, as 

 marked as in Bidimulus. The teeth resemble those of Sagda 

 haldemania.na as figured by W. G. Binney, but they are shorter. 



The genital system (PI. XIII, figs. A. B. C.) is elongated. The 

 female organs (fig. C.) lack dart sac or other accessory glands. The 

 oviduct of the several specimens examined, contained from four to 

 six ova, of a short-oval form, measuring 2'4 x 1*8 mm. The egg 

 shell is hard, brittle and calcareous. The albumen gland (a. gl.) is 

 narrow. The duct of the spermatheca (sp.) is very long, and is 

 swollen at its origin. The male organs (figs. A. B.) are peculiar. 

 The penis sac (p.) is long, and at its apex are inserted the vas 

 deferens {y. d.), the retractor muscle (r. p.) and a long folded 

 flagellum (/?.). From the middle of the penis sac springs a curiously 

 complicated accessory diverticulum (figs. A. B., 2. o.). This organ 

 is at first of equal size with the penis itself, but it then becomes very 

 narrow; it again widens into a long, convoluted blind sac. In fig. 

 A. this organ is seen in its natural position as it lies folded Avithin 

 the body-cavity. In fig. B. the organ is seen uncoiled to show its 

 form and length. I do not knoAv that any similar structure has been 

 observed hitherto. The retractor muscle of the penis seemed to be 

 attached to the vaginal sac, instead of to the body-wall. This may 

 possibly be a mistake, however. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Cysticopsis tenerrima C. B. Adams. (PI. XIII, fig. F.) 



The single specimen which furnished the following details was 

 taken by Mr. C. W. Johnson at Port Antonio, Jamaica, in April, 

 1891. 



The animal is black externally. The foot is short; sole indis- 

 tinctly tripartite. 



The genitalia (PI. XIII, fig. F.) are more like Sagda than any other 

 form as yet known, and the group must evidently be removed from 

 the vicinity of Hemitrochus, where it has hitherto been placed. The 

 female system has the uterus enormously distended with young, which 

 were twenty-seven in number in the specimen examined. The young 

 shells are globular, consisting of two whorls ; when dry they are 

 very iridescent. Those in the upper part are less developed than 

 the lower ones, and a single ovum, enclosed in a very thin, brittle 

 white shell, was found. The spermatheca (sp.) has a long, bifurcat- 

 ing duct, closely bound to the oviduct, its extreme upper portion 

 only being free. The penis sac (^.) is long, the vas deferens inserted 

 near its summit. It terminates in two flagellate organs (y?.) the 

 smaller being short and sickle-shaped. At the lower fourth of the 

 penis-sac arises an organ comparable to the accessory organ in 

 Sagda similis. This organ terminates in two long flagella {x. x.) 

 Aegista platyomphala Mlldff. (PI. XIII, figs. G. H.) 



A specimen containing the dried animal furnished the jaw and 

 lingual membrane. The jaw (PI. XIII, fig. H.) is rather strong, 

 slightly arcuate, and furnished with five or six wide unequal ribs. 

 These, with the exception of the one nearest the center, are low 

 and not strongly defined. The cutting edge is weakly denticulated 

 by the ribs. The superior-lateral portions of the jaw are thin. 



The radula (PI. XIII, fig. G.) is short and broad, consisting of 33- 

 1-33 teeth. The rhachidian tooth (?-.) and the inner ten laterals 

 lack side cusps. The eleventh lateral develops a side cusp. There 

 are fifteen or sixteen true lateral teeth. The inner marginal teeth 

 become tricuspid by the bifurcation of the principal cusp ; the outer 

 marginals are quadricuspid, the side cusp also bifurcating. 



The shell furnishing these preparations is Xo. 60,443 of the 

 Academy collection. Collected by Mr. B. Schmacker. Locality, 

 Kwangtung(Guangdung), China. 

 Caracolus ( Dentellaria) orbicuiata Ft'r. (PI. XIIT, fig. I. J.) 



The specimens were collected in Martinique by I'Abbe Vathelet, 

 and transmitted to me by post, alive. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



The jaw of this species has been figured as smooth by Binney, but 

 as that examined by me differs in having about seven low, unequal, 

 rounded ribs, I have deemed it best to figure it for comparison (fig. 

 J.). It is likely that there is considerable variation in this organ, 

 some closely allied species having a strongly ribbed jaw, others a 

 smooth jaw, as Binney has demonstrated. 



The sole is indistinctly tripartite. 



The genitalia are intermediate between those of Lucerna and 

 Caracolus s. str. The penis has a short flagellate extension beyond 

 the insertion of the vas deferens (fig. l,fl.). The spermatheca duct 

 is long (sp.) 



The genitalia of Caracolus, Lucerna, Dentellaria and Thelidomvs 

 have proved that the reference of all these large, opaque Helices of 

 tropical America to a single genus ( Caracolus) is a natural arrange- 

 ment. The classification proposed by me in 1889 S mainly upon 

 conchologic characters, will therefore stand. It is safe to predict 

 that the South American sections Labyrmthiis and Isomeria will 

 prove to be essentially similar to Lucerna and Dentellaria in 

 anatomy. 



Explanation of Plate XIII. 



Fig. A. Genitalia of Sagda similis, showing the penis and the lower portion of 

 the female system, p. penis; r. p. retractor muscle of the penis ;y7. 

 flagellum; 2. 0. accessory organ of the penis; v. d. vas deferens. 



Fig. B. View of the lower portion of the penis with its accessory organ, the latter 

 partially pinned out. Lettering as in fig. A. 



Fig. C. Female genital organs of Sagda similis. At 0. are seen eggs in the ovi- 

 duct. 



Fig. D. Jaw of Sagda similis. 



Fig. E. Foot of Sagda similis. t. tail, showing granulation, s. sole showing the 

 median furrow. 



Fig. F. Genital system of Cysticopsis teiierrima Ad. /. penis ;y?. flagellum ; r. p. 

 retractor muscle ; v. d. vas deferens x. x. flagellate extensions of the 

 accessory organ of penis ; g. cl. genital cloaca; sp. spermatheca; a. gl. 

 albumen gland ; h. d. hermaphrodite duct. 



Fig. G. Teeth of Aegista platyomphala MUdfY. 



Fig. H. Jaw o{ Aegista platyomphala Mlldfif. 



Fig. I. Genitalia of Dentellaria orbiailata Fer. Lettering as in Fig. F. 



Fig. J. Jaw of Dentellaria orbiculata Fer. 



^ Manual of Conchology, 3d Series, V, p. 75, 76. 




216 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



May 3. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-six persons present. 



In Memory' of Dr. Sereno Watson — The following resolutions 

 ■were received from the Botanical Section and unanimously 

 adopted : — 



^Vhereas — The Botanical Section of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia has learned with profound regret of the 

 death of Dr. Sereno Watson of Cambridge, Mass., and desirous of 

 placing on record its sense of this great loss, in consequence of which 

 botanical science througout the world suffers, therefore. 



Resolved. — That we recognize his invaluable services in the'dis- 

 semination of a knowledge of American botany, a work to which 

 he had given his undivided attention for many years and which has 

 rendered his name famous wherever the study of plants and plant 

 life has been cultivated. 



Resolved. — That a copy of this minute be forwarded to the 

 President of Harvard University and to the Gray Herbarium at 

 Harvard with which he was so long associated, and that the same 

 he offered for publication in the Proceedings of this Academy. 



May 10. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-two persons present. 



The deaths of D. B. Cummins, a member, and of Dr. C. A. 

 Dohrn, a correspondent, were announced. 



May 17. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-three persons present. 



May 24. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty-three persons present. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



On the Cephalo-hicrneral Muscle and the so-called rudimental Clav- 

 icle of Caniivora. — Dr. Harrison Allen spoke of some of the 

 peculiarities of the cephalo-humeral muscle in mammals and invited 

 especial attention to the presence of a small fibro-cartilaginous disc 

 in the junction of the cephalo-humeral with the muscles which are 

 inserted iu the bones at the region of the shoulder. This is well 

 defined in Fells and is identified as a rudimental clavicle. Dr. 

 Allen had detected this structure in Herpestis, Taxidea, Cercoleptes, 

 Bassaris and Procyon. 



The cartilage is either in the form of a flat disc or a minute 

 scythe-shaped rod, and is constant in lying directly over the 

 greatest convexity formed by the round of the shoulder. It seems 

 to give strength to the centre of a muscle-system of which the 

 cephalic, cervical, pectoral and latissimal sheets are parts. The 

 identification of such a plate or rod with a true clavicle is doubtful 

 since in Balantiopterijx (a genus of bats) the structure above de- 

 scribed is remarkably developed while the clavicle is as well 

 formed as in any other animal. The long rod- like body is con- 

 tinuous with a fascicle of fibres arising from the pectoralis and 

 receives the insertion of the occipito-pollicalis. The anterior end of 

 the rod lies in the upper border of the wing membrane and is 

 continuous with the fibrous thread which represents the tendon of 

 the occipito-pollicalis as this muscle is defined iu the bats generally. 

 From both the proximal and distal divisions of this muscle delicate 

 fascicles pass toward the elbow and the entire plan appears to be 

 associated ■\vith the rudiment of the characteristic skin sac. Slight 

 modification of this arrangement is met with in the allied genus 

 Rhynchonycteris. 



Comparison of this arrangement with that seen in the common 

 brown bat (Adelonycteris fuscns), the noctula bat {Nociidinia 

 noctula), and the false vampire ( Vampyrus spectrum) showed that 

 the part taken by the rod in Balantiopteryx is the tendon of a 

 pectoral muscle-fascicle Avhich is inserted into the occipito-])ollical 

 muscle as it crosses the shoulder, while in the group of the Molossi 

 the muscle-fascicle is fleshy throughout its entire extent, but on 

 the Avhole preserving the same relations. Thus the fibro-cartilage of 

 Balanieopteryx is represented by fibrous tissue in Adelonycteris and 

 both these in turn by muscle in the Molossi. Dr. Allen believed 

 that it was inexact to speak of a clavicle and of this rod as things 

 which were equal. The clavicle acts with the scapula in supj)orting 

 the head of the humerus but in no wise limiting or determining its 

 movements, while the rod is always over the outer aspect of the 

 shaft of the humerus below its head and here acts as a check to 

 abduction of this bone. 



15 




218 proceedings of the academy of [1892. 



May 31. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



A paper entitled " A Catalogue of the Fishes of Greece, with 

 notes on the Vernacular Names now in use and those employed by 

 Classical Authors," by Horace Addison Hoffman, assisted by David 

 Starr Jordan, was presented for publication. 



Henry Redmond, M. D. and J. F. Sachse were elected members. 



Edw. J. Miers, of London, was elected a correspondent. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



ON THE MECHANICAL GENESIS OF THE SCALES OF FISHES. 

 BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



Fourteen years ago the present writer suggested that the slow 

 metamorphosis of the forms of the crowns of the teeth of mammalia,^ 

 in the course of a vast number of successive generations, might be 

 ascribed to the continuous, slow and cumulative action of mechanical 

 strains and pressures in definite directions, resulting in the produc- 

 tion of permanent stresses and consequent changes in the forms of 

 the crowns, especially of the molar series. The evidence since 

 accumulated from vertebrate palwoutology and anatomy has served 

 to strengthen the belief that such an hypothesis cannot be dismissed 

 as useless until a better one has been offered in its stead. The pre- 

 sent paper is an attempt to apply somewhat analogous reasoning to 

 a somewhat simpler, but no less interesting, problem in nioi'pho- 

 genesis. 



The mechanical hypothesis now to be offered respecting the genesis 

 of the scales of fishes, accounts for the origin of such scales from a 

 continuous subepidermal matrix, which may be regarded as a base- 

 ment membrane. Such a matrix is found to actually exist in some 

 forms, at an early stage, just beneath the epidermis. It is thickest 

 on the dorsal and lateral aspects of the body as is seen in sections 

 of the young of the scaleless Batrachus tan, for example. Such a 

 matrix also exists in the larval stages of other scale-bearing forms 

 and may be continuous with the very attenuated basement mem- 

 brane from which the actinotrichia or primordial fin-rays of embryo 

 fishes seem to be in part differentiated. Such a matrix is almost 

 co-extensive with the whole epidermal layer of the young of many 

 types of fishes, just at the time when the scales commence to be 

 developed. 



The hypothesis further accounts for the arrangement of the scales 

 in longitudinal and in oblique rows in two directions. The oblique 

 rows are arranged, as is well-known, in a direction from above 

 downward and backward and also in the reverse direction from 

 below upward and backward. That is, the scales may be counted 

 in rows in three directions downward and forward as well as down- 



1 On the Mechanical Genesis of Tooth-forms. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1878. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ward and backward, and, starting from any scale in any oblique 

 row, they may be counted either forward or backward longitudinally 

 or in conformity with the direction of the axis of the body of the 

 fish. This is conspicuously the case in Clupeoids and some 

 Cyprinoids. 



In such archaic types as these, approximating the primitive iso- 

 spondylous condition, it is also found that the number of scales in a 

 longitudinal row corresponds, on the sides of the body, very exactly 

 with the number of muscle-plates or somites of the body. It is also 

 found that the myocommata or sheets of connective tissue interven- 

 ing between the successive somites are attached with great firmness 

 to the deeper layers of the skin or corium. Such a construction, 

 together with the peculiar arrangement of the muscle plates at the 

 time the scales begin to develop conditions the further growth of 

 the scale matrix. This is affected in such a manner that the whole 

 of the integument is thrown into definitely circumscribed areolae, 

 during the ordinary movements of the fish in swimming. The 

 central portions of each of these areolae are left in a quiescent con- 

 dition while their margins are wrinkled or folded as a result of the 

 current action of the lateral muscles of the body. In this wise each 

 and every one of the dermal and epidermal areolae are circum- 

 scribed by the action of the fish in the normal act of swimming. In 

 each of the circumscribed areolse a scale develops ; the continuity 

 of its development with its fellows across the margins of the areola 

 is prevented by the continual bendings or flexures to which the 

 dermis is there subjected owing to the action of the muscles. 



This will be better understood by referring to the accompanying 

 diagram representing the arrangement of the muscular somites of 

 a Cyprinoid (Carassius) with their intervening myocommata as 

 seen from the side when the skin with its scales is removed. Before 

 proceeding further, however, it may be well to insist upon the fact 

 that the rows of scales are found to conform to the successive somites. 

 This is of itself significant. The careful interpretation of the facts 

 from observation, however, discloses a very remarkable effect due to 

 the peculiar arrangement of the muscle plates. 



As is well known the muscular masses of the sides of the body of 

 a fish are arranged in the form of two longitudinal trihedral columns 

 separated along the middle line of the side a to 6 into a dorsal and 

 ventral half The somites entering into the com})osition of these 

 ventral and dorsal masses were at first absolutely continuous across 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



221 



jT m i^ y w vs: 



the longitudinal, horizontal septum a, b. If we suppose the somites 

 of the adult as developed from a continuous embryonic segment 



extending the whole 

 depth of the body, then 

 will somites I, II, III, 

 IV, V etc., in the figure 

 form two parallel series 

 of muscular blocks 

 above and below the 

 line a, b. Each half 

 somite is also seen to 

 present an acute apex 

 directed backward at 

 the points e and c' 

 above and below the 

 line a, b. The somites 



1, II, III, IV and V are therefore sigmoid in outline as seen 

 from the exterior. The myocomraata or connective tissue septa 1, 



2, 8, 4, 0, 6 etc., which intervene between the somites, have a corre- 

 sponding sigmoid arrangement. The sigmoid or :^-shaped myo- 

 commata and the myotomes, are reciprocally coadapted to each 

 other in configuration like a nest of ^ ^ ^ ^'s turned upon their 

 sides. If we further supposed that thin and thick-legged :^'s 

 alternated thus ^:^^^^^ we might suppose the thin-legged 

 ones to represent the myocommata and the thick-legged ones the 

 muscle plates or myotomes. The muscular fibres of the thick-legged 

 ^'s run longitudinally from the posterior surface of the myocomma 

 immediately in front of it, to be inserted into the anterior face of 

 the myocomma immediately behind it. The muscular tension is 

 therefore exerted upon the opposite sides of the myocommata and is 

 thus propagated along the sides of the body from the head to the 

 tail, from the first to the last niyotome. But the tension upon the 

 inner face of the skin is along the lines of insertion of the myocom- 

 raata 1 c'c, 2 e'e, 3 e'c, etc., this will serve to wrinkle the skin not 

 only along the lines 1 c'c 2 c'c, etc., but also to cause wrinkles to 

 appear along the dotted lines, cl, cl', e and e'. In this way it is easy 

 to see that the whole lateral integument will be thrown into definitely 

 circumscribed rhomboidal areohe in which separate overlapping 

 scales s, s, s, s, may appear. The wrinkles thus produced by the 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



tension of myocomniata upon the integuments of the body will cross 

 each other and be reinforced at six points in the zigzag transverse 

 course of each myocorama, viz., twice at each of the points c and c' 

 and along the line a, b, where the middle limb of the ^ rests. 



The only point which now remains to be discussed is the imbrica- 

 tion of the scales. This is also as readily accounted for as the 

 delimitation of the scale-forming areolae, s, s, s, and their tri-linear 

 arrangement in three directions in the convex surface of the integu- 

 ment by means of the mechanical hypothesis here outlined. If we 



Fig. 2. 



were to make a longitudinal transverse section through a fish along 

 the plane of the letters e, e, c, or c' c' c' of Fig. 1, we should get a 

 section like Fig. 2 in which the myotomes M, M, M, etc., Fig. 2 

 were ao-ain found to be V-shaped on eitlier side of the medial axis 

 or vertebral column c, c, Fig, 2. This proves that the myotomes 

 are really cones fitting into one another and that if we suppose the 

 first one to be inserted into the base of the skull along the line A, 

 B, Fig. 2, that point becomes the anterior fulcrum or foint d'appui 

 of the whole muscular system. The tensions thus developed upon 

 the skin along the successive myocommata 1, 2, 3 etc., Fig. 2, is 

 such that the integument would be flexed inward opposite each 

 myocomma as shown in the next figure, on a larger scale, which 

 represents the foldings of the integument at the surface of a part 

 of Fig. 2. Here in Fig. 3, the myocommata m, i', m, i', m, etc. 



are seen to be inserted 

 upon the internal face 

 of the epidermis ep, ep. 

 The membrane m, m, 

 m, m, acted upon by 

 the muscular fibres of 

 the myotomes jNt, M, M, 

 will have the eflfect of 

 pulling the integument 

 inward in the direction 

 of the arrows i', i', from 

 the linear points of attachment of the myocommata to the inte- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



guments at i, i, i, toward the vertebral bodies Y, Y, Y. In tliis 

 manner will be developed the imbrication indicated by the heavy- 

 border along the posterior margins of the scales s, s, s, in Fig. 1, 

 and in Fig. 3, in longitudinal section through the scale sacks or 

 pockets at .<!, s, s. 



It will be clear that in the case considered the arrangement and 

 imbrication of the scales is determined by the actions of the 

 segmentall}' arranged muscles of the body. In other words, what- 

 ever has determined the development of somites has also, in the 

 most clear and direct manner, detei'mined the segraentally recurrent 

 and peculiar tri-linear and imbricated arrangement of the scales of 

 many fishes. It may be urged in objection that heredity has 

 determined the number, arrangement and the development of the 

 somites and, therefore, the development of the scales is also a sequence 

 of hereditary influences working thus indirectly. This view of the 

 case may be admitted Avithout invalidating the conclusion that, given 

 the growing mechanism hei'e described, the development of the scales 

 would under any circumstances have been interfered with at the 

 points where the integument was being continually flexed, wrinkled 

 or folded as it is around the integumentary areolae wherein the 

 scales are formed, as has been here proved to correspond with the 

 facts. 



Special types of squaniation amongst fishes may require an inter- 

 pretation difl^erent as to details from the foregoing, but it is probable 

 that such special cases will rather tend to confirm than otherwise 

 the views developed in this sketch of an hypothesis respecting the 

 mechanical origin of the arrangement and imbrication of the scales 

 of fishes. For example, one of the most extreme cases, that of the 

 sturgeon, shows that the smaller integumentary plates between the 

 large dorsal, lateral and ventral rows, conform to these lines of 

 tension of the myocommata upon the integument. An even more 

 instructive example is that of the common eel in which the scales 

 are oblong rhombs or jiarallelograms, arranged with their diameters 

 in oblique lines, running in two directions conformably with the 

 tensions, wrinklings and foldings of the integuments produced by 

 the oblique insertions of the muscles when the latter are brought 

 into action. Other cases where the scales are very fine might be 

 urged in objection, especially where several oblique rows of scales 

 are found to correspond to each somite. Such parallel duplication of 

 scale rows, however, does not invalidate the principle since the rows 




224 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



still conform to the lines of tension of the linear attachment of the 

 myocommata to the integuments. The hypothesis may also be 

 extended so as to consistently consider such forms as the pipe fishes 

 and other anomalous forms, where sluggish habits coupled Avith the 

 almost exclusive use of the dorsal fin in swimming, has rendered 

 the lateral musculature of the body comparatively subordinate in 

 function, and which may even lead to secondary fusion of somites 

 and the consolidation of consecutive pairs or triplets of vertebral 

 centra into single vertebral bodies. 



Two conclusions of prime importance may be drawn from the 

 hypothesis and the evidence here presented, namely : 



1. The scales of fishes bear a segmental relation to the remaining 

 hard and soft parts, and are either repeated consecutively and in 

 oblique rows corresponding to the number of segments, or they may 

 be repeated in rows as multiples of the somites, or segmental reduc- 

 tion may occur which may aflect the arrangement of the scales so as 

 to reduce the number of rows below the number of somites indicated 

 by the other soft and hard parts. 



2. The peculiar manner of interdigitation of the muscular somites, 

 as indicated by the sigmoid outline of the myocommata, as seen 

 from their outer faces, and the oblique direction of the membranes 

 separating the muscular cones, has developed a mode of insertion 

 of the myocommata upon the corium which has thrown the integu- 

 ment into rhombic areolae during muscular contraction. These 

 areolae are in line in three directions and the folds separating them, 

 particularly at their po:«terior borders, are inflected in such a manner 

 by muscular tensions, due to the arrangement of muscular cones, as 

 to induce the condition of imbrication so characteristic of the 

 squamation of many fishes. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 225 



June 7. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine persons present. 

 The death of H. F. Formad, M. D., a member, was announced- 



June 14. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



A communication from Edw. D. Cope on the fauna of the Blanco 

 Beds of Texas was read and referred to the Publication Committee 

 as a paper under the provisional title " The Fauna of the Blanco 

 Beds of Texas." 



June 21. ♦ 



Mr. Uselma C. Smith in the chair. 

 Thirty -one persons present. 



June 28. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Twenty-four j^ersous present. 

 Tiie following were elected members : — 



J. Hunter Ewing, C. A. Hamann, i\[. D., Henry Whelen and 

 Francis M. Brooke. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



A CONTKIBTJTION TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE FAUNA OF THE 

 BLANCO BEDS OF TEXAS. 



BY EDW. D. COPE. 



Prof. E. T. Durable, State Geologist of Texas, appointed Prof. 

 W. F. Cummins to conduct the survey of the northwestern district 

 of the state, and in pursuance of this order the latter gentleman is 

 now examining the mesozoic and cenozoic beds which compose and 

 underlie the Staked Plains. I accompanied this party in the capacity 

 of paleontologist, having already determined the vertebrate fossils 

 collected by the Survey's expeditions of last year (see Proceedings 

 of the American Philoso})hical Society, first Xo. for 1892). 



The superficial formation of the Staked Plains has been deter- 

 mined by Prof. R. T. Hill to be of late cenozoic age, and the term 

 Blanco beds has been applied to it by Prof. Cummins. The exami- 

 nation of the vertebrate fossils from it led me to state (Joe. cit.) that 

 in age the Blanco formation intervenes between the Loup Fork 

 below and the Equus bed above, in the series. This conclusion was 

 based chiefly en the fact of the presence of horses of the genus 

 Equus (E. simplicidens Cope) in association with mastodons of the 

 molar dental type of the Tetrabelodon angustklens, an association 

 not previously met with in North America. In addition to these 

 species, the presence of a peculiar land tortoise (Testudo turgida 

 Cope), and of a new genus of birds allied to the rails (Crecoides 

 Shuf.) was established. 



I propose to present to the Academy, a list of the species obtained, 

 so far, from the Blanco beds by the present expedition, with such 

 conclusions as may be derived from it. 



TESTUDINATA. 



Testudo turgida Cope, loc. cit. 

 Testudo pertenuis, sji. nov. 



Founded on a large specimen measuring three and a half feet in 

 lengtli by three in width, and remarkable for the transverse width 

 of the vertebral dermal scuta. The carapace is rather flat and 

 descends steeply posteriorly, the anal marginal bone being some- 

 Avhat incurved. Margins of carapace flare outwards above the legs. 

 The plastron has a rather Avide lip, with flat base, and straight lat- 

 eral borders ; its anterior border is lost. The posterior lobe is deeply 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



and widely notched, terminating on each side in a subequih^teral 

 angular prominence. Both carapace and plastron are without 

 sculpture, the posterior angles of the plastron only being longitudi- 

 nally grooved below. The vertebral scuta are considerably wider 

 than long, as is also the anal scutum. Both carapace and plastron 

 are very thin, not exceeding one-quarter inch in the specimen 

 described, except at the borders. ]Measurements : Length over all 

 4*2 feet ; width over all 4 feet ; width of penultimate dorsal scute 

 1'275 feet, length "85 feet ; width of last vertebral scute 1"35 feet ; 

 width of anal scute 1*5 feet, length "6 feet. Length of penultimate 

 costal scute -9 feet ; length of last costal -95 feet. Width of lip of 

 plastron at base "8 feet ; width of anterior lobe at axilke 2 feet. 

 Width of posterior lobe of plastron at base 2 feet ; width at fundus 

 of median notch I'l feet ; width at apices of angular processes "85 

 feet ; depth of notch "5 feet. This is the largest species of land 

 tortoise yet known from North America. 



EDENTATA. 



Megalouyx, sp. 



Teeth and fragments of skull. 



CARNIVORA. 

 A canid and three undetermined forms represent the Carnivora. 

 PROBOSCIDIA. 



Mastodon successor, sp. nov. 



This species is represented by teeth in collections previously made 

 by Prof Cummins, and though the characters of these resemble 

 closely those of the Tetrabelodon angiistidens, I did not identify them 

 as pertaining to that species. From its association with the genus 

 Equus, I suspected that it would prove to be distinct from the latter ; 

 and the accession of more material proves this to be the case. It is 

 a species of the genus Mastodon and not of Tetrabelodon, having 

 a very short, contracted and elephant-like symphysis. The most 

 complete specimen is represented by both rami of the lower jaw 

 with symphysis complete, but lacking angles and condyles ; accom- 

 panied by a tusk of the upper jaw. The latter is without enamel 

 band. The second true molars are in place, showing their patterns, 

 and the third molars have only three crests protruded. Besides 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



the subsidiary tubercles which form the trefoils of the inner side of 

 the molars there are a few other tubercles closing the valleys. The 

 second true molars have a narrow fourth cross-crest. Measurements : 

 Length of left ramus preserved 2.55 feet ; length from anterior 

 base of coronoid process to apex of snout 1*55 feet; length of sec- 

 ond true molar "45 feet ; width between second molars '35 feet ; 

 total width of rami at middle of M. 3-l"4 feet; width of crown of 

 M. 3 at front crest '35 feet ; diameter of tusk near middle "625 feet. 

 This species is nearest to the Mastodon andium Laurill., but that 

 species, according to Burmeister, has an elongate symphysis, although 

 without tusks. 

 Mastodon cfr. mirificus Leidy. 



Rather common. 

 Mastodon cfr. shepardii Leidy. 



One molar obtained. 



PEEISSODACTrLA. 



Eqaus simplicidens Cope, 1. c. 



The most abundant mammal and retaining exactly the characters 

 of the molar teeth as originally defined, 



Equus, sp. 



Smaller and with plicate enamel. 

 Equus, sp. 



Much smaller than the last, and quite rare ; not determined. 



ARTIODACTYLA. 



Pliauchenia. 



A large species about the size of the existing camel is abundant ; 

 not determined. Pliauchenia bones of a species larger than the 

 last may be referable to this genus. Small Artiodactyla not 

 determined. 



Of the pi'eceding list of fifteen species it may be remarked that 

 Megalonyx and Equus are not Loup Fork genera, while Mastodon and 

 Pliauchenia are such. No species is found in the Loup Fork bed. 

 On the other hand, Megalonyx smdEguus are Equus-bed genera, while 

 Pliauchenia and Mastodon have not been found in them, although 

 it is probable that the latter existed. No species is found in that 

 horizon. The conclusion is inevitable that the fauna of the Blanco 

 bed is intermediate between the two mentioned, and that it fills an 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



important gap in geologic and paleontologic history. It was a 

 fauna including species of large size, the relative abundance of 

 mastodons, camels and horses being especially noteworthy. The 

 fact that no trace of rliinoceros has been found is remarkable. 




230 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892 



A CATALOGUE OF THE FISHES OF GREECE. WITH NOTES ON THE 



NAMES NOW IN USE AND THOSE EMPLOYED BY 



CLASSICAL AUTHOES. 



BY HOEACE ADDISOX HOFFMAX AND DAVID STARR JORDAN, 



The first-named author of the present paper spent a hirge part of 

 the spring and summer of 1890 in Greece. Part of this time was devo- 

 ted to making collections of the fishes found in the markets of Athens 

 and to the study of the vernacular names now apjilied by the Greek 

 fishermen to these fishes. Each fish as obtained was preserved in 

 alcohol, a number attached to it, and a record kept of the vernacu- 

 lar name attached to this number. 



The persistence of vernacular names of fishes and other animals 

 is known to be very great, and it may be safely assumed that the 

 most of these names now heard in Athens are derived from those 

 applied to the same species in the time of Aristotle. It has been 

 thought that a study of these names would tend to throw light on 

 those applied to fishes by classical authors. The fact that no such 

 collection or comparison of names of fishes has yet been made is 

 the justification of this paper. 



A single catalogue of the fishes of Greece is known to me, that 

 published by my friend, Professor Apostolides in 1883 (La Peche 

 en Grece : par Xicolas Chr. Apostolides). This work contains 

 numerous vernacular names and it has been largely drawn upon in 

 the present paper. 



In this paper is printed a systematic list of the fishes known from 

 Greece, either on the authority of Apostolides or from my own col- 

 lection, with the veruacLilar names and such note^ on them as I am 

 able to ofier. 



!N^o one can be more fully aware than I am, of the unsatisfactory 

 character of many things in this paper. It was often difficult or 

 impossible to make out with certainty just what Aristotle meant. 

 Some terms occurring over and over and evidently liaviug a very 

 definite meaning to him are obscure to us, and the meanings given 

 in the dictionaries are only guesses. A good illustration of this is 

 the word y-o^w.aa, usually translated diaphragm. We have no 

 right to assume that Aristotle always, or ever, meant by this term 

 the diaphragm, especially in those instances where it makes him 

 entirelv wrous in resrard to the anatomical facts. In those matters 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



which could be seen by dissection I feel convinced that Aristotle 

 made the dissections for himself and reported what he saw. He 

 may not always have seen aright in nice points, and he certainly 

 did not understand what he saw as it is understood in the light of 

 modern science ; but there is no ground for assuming that he did 

 not see what would be apjoarent to any one who took the least 

 pains to look, even if with unpractised eye. A striking confirma- 

 tion of the correctness of his observation in matters of anatomy 

 was afforded by the repeated statement that the fidrpayo^ (Lophius 

 piscatoriiis) has its gall bladder upon the intestine, not upon the 

 liver. A dissection of this fish by Dr. Charles H. Gilbert proved 

 the statement of Aristotle to be correct. I believe that a reading 

 of Aristotle in the original accompanied by dissections of the ani- 

 mals in question would bring one to a much better understanding 

 of his anatomical terms, which are much in need of some such 

 elucidation. 



It is quite otherwise when he comes to the habits of the fishes 

 and other matters than anatomical knowledge. Here he has to 

 depend upon the observations of the fishermen and others, and what 

 he has to say simply records the prevalent beliefs. Of course much 

 of this fisherman's lore is real knowledge gained from observation, 

 but it has also a considerable sliare of myth. 



Another great source of difficulty is corruption of the text. 

 Considering all the time and the vicissitudes that the Mss. of Aristotle 

 have passed through it is always more or less problematical as to 

 whether in any given passage we have just what Aristotle said. 



For the nomenclature and systematic arrangement of the species, 

 the identification of my specimens, and for all matters purely zoo- 

 logical in character I am indebted to Dr. David S. Jordan, at whose 

 suggestion the work was undertaken. The specimens obtained are 

 in the museum of the University of Indiana. 



Explanatory Notes. 



1, The following order of statement has been adopted: (1) Sci- 

 entific name by Dr. Jordan. (2) M. G. (Modern Greek) name or 

 namesheard by me in Greece, if any ; each name followed immediately 

 by a small figure in parenthesis indicating the number of specimens 

 secured under that name. (3) A reference to the page of Aposto- 

 lides' book (La Pcche en Grcce par Nicolas Chr. Apostolidcs, Ath- 

 ens, 1883), where the species is given, followed by the scientific 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



name used by him, and the vernacular name or names given by him. 

 (4) The similar name or names from A. G. (Ancient Greek) authors, 

 chiefly Aristotle, references to the places in their works where these 

 names are found, and a gathering up of the chief things said about 

 the fish in question, especially anything which might in any way 

 help to fix the identity of the species. 



Explanatory remarks and comments are thrown in wherever in 

 each case it seems most suitable. 



2. Modern Greek names marked with an asterisk (*) were heard 

 by me in the market at Athens, sometimes elsewhere in Greece, but 

 do not occur in Apostolides' list. 



3. Names marked with a dagger (f) occur in Apostolides, but 

 were not heard by me in Greece. 



4. Names not marked by any sign Avere both heard by me and 

 found in Ajiostolides. They are not marked if the variations in 

 form are slight and insignificant, even if the forms are not identical. 



5. When the names are derived from other sources the source is 

 given in connection with the name. 



6. The references to Aristotle are taken from the Index Aris- 

 totelicus of Hermann Bonitz, and, as there, refer to the page, col- 

 umn and line of the quarto edition of Aristotle's works issued by 

 the Royal Academy of Prussia through Georg Reimer, Berlin. 



The references to Athenaeus, mostly from the Vllth book, are 

 given by book and sectiou, Editio C. Tauchnitii, Otto Holtze, 

 Leipzig, 1887. 



7. Species obtained by me in Greece are marked H. The list 

 which follows is that of Apostolides, the species arranged in 

 accordance with the views of American authors and the accepted 

 rules of nomenclature ajjplied to their names. 



Family BRANCHIOSTOMATIDJE. 



1. Branchiostoma lanceolatum (Pallas). 



Apost. 35 (BraucJuostoma lanceola or Amphioxus laneeolatus) 



Family PETROMYZONTID^. 



2. Petromyzon marinus (L). 



Apost. 34 (^Petromyzon marinus), f /A;j.-rn'^a, Lat. knnpeira, rock- 

 sucker, Eug. lamprey ; /.d/i-poa is evidently of Latin and Italian 

 origin. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Family SCYLLIORHINIDJE. 



3. Scylliorhinus canicula (L). 



Apost. 5 (^Scyllium caniculci), f (t/.oU, -\ a/.o/Mt^'apo, dog, dog-fish. 

 A. G. a/.u/.a^, whelp, pup, dog. M. G. (T/.oU{iyS), dog. Aristotle, 

 a/.ulim, name of a fish, 565a 16-26; 566a 19. 



According to Aristotle the ova of the ay-uliir^ are grown fast 

 between the branches of the oviduct about the backbone ; as these 

 ova increase in size they change their position and move around 

 into one or the other branch of the oviduct, which is forked and 

 grown fast to the u-6'^ojij.a (diaphragm, peritoneum) just as in other 

 similar fishes. The oviduct of both this and the other Galeodes 

 has at a little distance from the u-u^ojfia a kind of white breasts 

 (oviducal glands) which are not present when they are not preg- 

 nant. The shells of their eggs are shaped like the tongues (reeds) 

 of pipes (an/Mi), and there are attached to them hair-like ducts. 

 The other ya/.zoi breed twice a year, but the a/.o/Miv only once. 



4. Catulus stellaris (L). 



Ajiost. 5, 6 (Scyllium catulus), f yd-o<s = xdzoc, cat. Byzantine 

 and Roman times, xdrra, zrirrw?; Latin, cafto. Martial 13,69. 

 I find no ancient application of this name to a fish. 



Family ALOPIID^. 



5. Alopias vulpes (Gmelin). 

 Apost, 6, f (Txu/.u<I'ar)o. 



Family CAROHARIID^. 



6. Carcharias feroz (Risso). 

 Apost. 6. (Odontaspisferox.) 



Family LAMNID^. 



7. Lamna cornubica (Gmelin). 

 Apost. 6, t (Ty.u/M(^'af>(i. 



8. Isurus oxyrhynchus (Rafinesque). 



Apost. 6 {Oxyrhina spallanzani), '\ ffxo/.oij'arjo. 



9. Carcharodon carcharias (L). 



Apost. 6 (Carcharoclon laviia), "f xafiyarna^^, j /.d/ua. See Athen, 

 vii, 76. Athenaeus quotes several passages from ancient authors 

 where the name xapyapiaq occurs, and among them the following 

 from Nicandrus the Colophonian in his " Glosses : " " The xair/aj,ia^ 

 is called also '/.dp'-a and axu/la." 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The word z«/y;^a/)j'a9 itself is from y.dfr/apo^, sharp, or sharp-toothed. 

 The Lamia and Scylla were fierce man-devouring monsters of Greek 

 myth. 



Family GALEORHINIDJE. 



10. Galeus canis (Mitchell). 

 Apost. 7. {Mustelus vulgaris.^ 



11. Galeus mustelus (L). 



Ajjost. 7. {Mustelus Icevis) ya/.r^oi^. 



12. Carcharhinus glancus (L). 



Apost. 7. (Carcharias glaucus.) 



Family SPHYRNID^. 



13. Sphyrna zygaena (L). 



Apost. 7 (Zygcena malleus'), y X'^yo-'.^a. Mentioned by Arist. 506b 

 10 among long fishes with the gall on the liver. Also mentioned 

 by Epicharmus, Frag. 30. 



I saw some fishermen catch a hammer-headed shark in the Bay 

 of Eleusis, but all the names I could elicit were zav^z; (?) possibly 

 zyv!z: = little dog, and ayfi'.vcl'apo = fierce fish. 



14. Sphyrna tudes (Cuvier). 



Apost. 7 (Zygcena tudes), j -a-tphaa, crutch, bishop's staflT. 

 Family HEXANCHID^. 



15. HeptrancMas cinereus (Gmelin). 

 Apost. 7. (^Heptanchus cinereus.) 



Family SQUALID^ 



16. Squalus acanthias (L). 



Apost. 8. {Acanthias vulgaris) f (Txu/.u(/'apo. 



17. Squalus blainvillei (Risso). H. raA£6(?) (J. 



Not noticed by Apostolides. Apost. 7 gives yaXr^o? as common 

 nsiine for 3Iustelus Icevis. FaAsug, ya/.soztor^? and ya/.ed>dr^g all occur 

 quite frequently in Aristotle. 505a 15, 489b 5 and 6, 511a 4-6, 

 1529a 29, 621b 16, 565b 28, 543a 17, 566a 17, 565a 26, 754b 33, 

 565b 2ff, 508b 17 (Here ya/S^ is probably the proper reading, M. G. 

 ydha, Lota fluviatalis. Cf. Aelian xv, 11, Bonitz.), 565a 20, 666a 

 31, 565a 14, 540b 19, 505a 18, 505a 5, 506b 8, 507a 15, 540b 27. 



According to Aristotle the ^a/£rt:'are the long (j^kdyji with uncovered 

 gills on their sides (sharks), as distinguished from the flat ffSiia/?; with 

 uncovered gills underneath them (rays). The /'«/£:"!' are ovoviviparous, 

 produce at the most three young at a time, and admit their offspring 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



into themselves (into their mouths) and let them out again. The 

 Tzinxikix; and dXw-sxiag do this especially, but others do not because 

 of their roughness. The ya/.sot have a mouth opening wide (liter- 

 ally * breaking back '). The dxa\^Ocag (thorny) yaX^O'^ has its ova 

 attached to the b-o^miia (peritoneum [?]) above the oviducal glands, 

 and when the ovum descends upon its having been loosed the young fish 

 is produced. In the same way generation takes place in the akw-ri^. 

 But the so-called smooth yahoi have their ova between the branches 

 of the oviduct like the (j/.oXw. The ova moving about descend 

 into one or the other branch of the oviduct and the young are pro- 

 duced, having the umbilical cord attached to the oviduct, so that 

 when the eggs are used up these fish seem to have an embryo just like 

 the quadrupeds. In the case of the ff/.uUa, which some call '^^Spiat 

 yaksoi (i. e. ya'/.toi dappled like a fawn, fawn-colored sharks), when 

 the shell of the egg bursts and falls off the young fish is born. There 

 are several kinds of yaksoi, e. g. dffT£pia<?, -/.s'^-pi'^ri^, d/.avOia'?, ktTo^, 

 -<jiy.i/.()?, (Txv'jyog, dXcorzaxiag. See Athen. vii, 43. 



la 508b 17 yaXzui are mentioned among fishes which have many 

 pyloric appendages, but this is thought to be a corrupted reading 

 for yafS,. See above under references. 



The ya/.so{ and ya/.zi>£'.<hj'^, as d/.(o-rj^ and xuu)'^, and the flat fishes, 

 vdpxrj, ftd-Titq, IzwSanx; and zptjy(i)'j produce their young alive, having 

 first produced eggs internally. The form of the uterus (oviduct) 

 must be seen from dissections. The yalzojo-q have it difierent from 

 one another and from the flat (jthr/r^. For in some cases the 

 ova are grown fast around the back bone between the branches 

 of the uterus (oviduct, tVrf/^a), just as has been said in the case of 

 the axoXiov. As the ova increase in size they move around. The 

 uterus being forked and grown to the v-d^uipa (diaphragm, perito- 

 neum) just as that of others of this kind, the ova come around 

 into one or the other branch of the uterus (oviduct). Both 

 the uterus of this and that of the other yaXso£i(h'i<; at a little distance 

 from the u-u^coiia have what resembles white breasts (oviducal 

 glands) which are not present when they are not pregnant. 



The ya/.zcuih'.i all have their gills double and five on each side. 

 They also have the gall bladder on the liver, and the two parts of 

 the liver are independent, the beginning not being grown together. 

 The males differ from the females by having two appendages hang- 

 ing about the vent. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1862. 



18. Oxynotus centrina. 



Apost. 8 ( Centrina vulpecula), yaopou^in^'apo. 



The word is M. G. and means liog-fish. So A. G. xo'-p<><}, hog, 

 was used as name of a fish found in the Kile. Strabo 823, Athen. 

 312 A. (\di, 88). 



I saw the yoopou'yocJ'apo in the market at Athens and heard the 



name from the market men, but the specimen was too large to be 



preserved. 



Family SQUATINID^. 



19. Squatina squatina H. * pt^a (J, =5^ GopaoXla (J. 



Kot noticed by Apostolides ; phr^ (v. 1. /':>«), Arist. 543b 9, 

 540b 11, 746b 6, 543a 14, 565b 25, 1529a 16, 697a 6, 620b 30 31, 

 506b 8, 566a 20 22 27, 622a 13. 



The pi-^r^ is one of the at'/A/r^, has the gall on the liver, has a large tail 

 and copulates belly to belly. It breeds twice a year, in autumn and 

 again about the setting of the Pleiades, producing seven or eight young 

 each time. It allows its young to pass in and out (of its mouth). 

 The pi'^r, seems to cross with the ^6-u^ and produce the fish called 

 pi-zoCaroQ. This has the head and fore parts of the (5«ro9 but the 

 rear parts of the pi-^rj, as if born from both. Like the t-'vos", /5«r</? 

 and <p7,rTa it buries itself in the sand and then waves the filaments 

 in its mouth. It changes its color to that of the rocks on which it 

 is, or to that of its other surroundings, so that it is not easily seen. 



Athen. vii, 89, says the '/.ituilo-wi (smooth ;5'ir<>c) is also called 



pi'^Ti. 



Family RHINOBATID^. 



20. Ehino'batxis columnae (Muller & Henle). 

 Apost. 8. t Kal/j'v^'.. 



Family TORPEDINID^. 



21. Torpedo torpedo (L). 



Apost. 8 {Torpedo marmorata), jp.ouo'.d<jTpa,froTn'M.G.p.ouo'.d!:w, 

 to benumb. Compare ancient -^apxr/, Aristotle, 506b 9, 505a 4, 

 540b 18, 566a 32, 695b 8 9, 696a 27, 1527b 40, 1530a 12, 696a 31, 

 695b 11, 620b 19 29, 1530a 15, 543b 9, 566a 23, 565b 25, 620b 

 20 26. 



Ndp/.Ti means numbness, torpor, stiffness. The verb '^apxdw means 

 to grow numb, to be stiff, Lat. torpere. 



Arist. gives the following points with regard to the va/>zr^ : 



It is a flat afAayoQ and like all such has its gills underneath it 

 and is ovoviviparous. It has the gall on the liver, has a long spiny 




[1892. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



tail. It has its dorsal fins transferred to its belly, where, on account 

 of its shape, they will be more useful, and its hellij (ventral and 

 pectoral [?]) fins near the head. It has two fins near (or on) its 

 tail. For two fins it uses its flat edges. The vdir/.ri benumbing 

 (vapxa.'^ -ouivfTo) the fishes which it intends to catch, taking them 

 into its mouth in the way which it has, feeds on these. It buries 

 itself in the sand and mud and captures the fishes swimming up 

 to it, which it stuns (va^oxav -oist). A proof that they live in this 

 way is that they are often caught having in them the xEfrrpsu's, one 

 of the swiftest of fishes, the •^dpxrj itself being one of the slowest. 

 Some persons have been eye witnesses of their mode of capturing 

 their prey. It is well known that they stun people also. It hunts 

 little fishes for its food, catching them by rendering them numb 

 Q^air/.d'/) and unable to move. The v«ox7j and /):Vij spawn a little 

 before the autumnal equinox. They take their young into them- 

 selves (their mouths) and let them out again. A large •MJ.jr/.ri has 

 been seen with about 80 young in it. 



Aristotle frequently mentions it in close connection with rpoycov, 

 iSdrii'^ and z':^'/, implying that they belong to the same general class. 



See also Athen. vii, 95, where the same facts with regard to its 

 stunning power are repeated. Theophrastus says it can send a shock 

 even up through a fish-spear to a man's hand. 



Family RAJID^. 



22. Eaja clavata (L). 

 Apost. 8. 



23. Raja batis (L). 



Apost. 8 {Raia batis), [^azi. BaTi = ^iaziQr^) is the natural M. G. 

 equivalent for A. G. tidzo<;. 



24. Eaja punctata H., /5a-o9 d). 

 Apost. 8 (Rata punctata). 



The lid-o^ is repeatedly mentioned in Aristotle. 4&9b 6, 489b 

 31, 505a 4, 540b 8, 565b 28, 566a 28 32, 599b 29, 620b 30, 695b 

 28, 696a 25, 697a 6, 709b 17, 746b 6. 



According to Aristotle the i^dzo'. form one division of the tTz)Ayrj, 

 are flat, have a tail {y.ijr/.o^ = tail like that of a quadruped. 

 The word /.iir/.o^ is not applied to the tail of a fish, such as a sunfish, 

 etc.) ; they have uncovered gills (no opercula), have no scales, but a 

 rough skin ; they have no fins but " swim by means of their flat- 

 ness itself," or, as is said in another place, by means of the outer 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



edge of their flatness. They have their gills under them, whereas 

 the ya^.£(o<hi have them in the side. The flat selache with tails, as 

 the ,3o-o^, rpoyu).! and the like, copulate not only with belly to belly, 

 but also by mounting with their bellies upon the backs of the 

 females in those kinds in which the tail is not so thick as to be in 

 their way. Of the flat fish the [idnn; and rfiuyu)'^ do not receive 

 their young into themselves because of the roughness of the tail. 

 Some fishes lie quiet in the sand, others in the mud, keeping only 

 the mouth above. The -srpaZot, fidrai and <>thj.yd>o-r^ lie hid during 

 the wintriest days. The ovo?, [idroq, 4'^,rra and phrj bury themselves 

 in the sand, and when they have made themselves invisible they 

 wave (paSdeusrac) those things in their mouths which the fishermen 

 call " rodlets " (paSdca) or little wands. None of the other fishes 

 have been seen uniting in copulation with others not of their 

 own kind ; but the /n>rj and /Jriro^- alone seem to do this ; for 

 there is a fish called pr^oSaro?, because it has the head and fore- 

 parts of the i3dT<><: but the hind parts of the pr^rj, as if born from 

 both of these. The yol^oi and yaAzuz-to^^.^, as the ^/./.w-r^r and /.ow^, 

 and the flat fishes, 'Mipy-ri, fidro^, '/.twfiazo^ and zptryw^, are vivi- 

 parous, having produced eggs (internally), i. e. are ovoviviparous. 

 Bart's also occurs in Aristotle. It may be merely a feminine form of 

 /?a-«9 used as a name of female ftdro^. 1527b 41 43, 565a 22 27, 

 567a 13. " The (j/.nAia. and I'iarida^ have shelly arrangements in which 

 is found an eggy fluid. The form of the shell is like that of the 

 tongues (reeds) of wind-instruments (pipes, abhii), and there are 

 hair-like ducts attached to the shells. In the case of the (T/.oXia, 

 which some call '^s6pio.i yal£(n,i\\Q. young are produced whenever 

 the shell breaks from around them and falls oflf; but in the case of 

 the /3aT£'i?£9 whenever they lay the eggs the young comes forth from 

 the shell, which has been broken ofl' from around it." 565a 22ff'. 

 (The above passage is obscure and possibly corrupt. I do not 

 understand the distinction made in the latter part.) 



In 567a 13 Aristotle says that the female seal has a pudendum 

 like that of the Sari^. 

 25. Raja miraletus H., (reXdyi (j). 



Apost. 9 (Raia miraletus). Isz-dyt, according to Apost, is a collec- 

 tive name for all species of rays. 



Arist. (riXayoQ, commonly in plur. (T^)yryri. 511a 5, 695b9, 489b 2, 

 516b 16, 655a 23, 732b 1, 754a 23, 476a 2, 732b 22, 520a 17, 538a 

 29, 540b 6, 755b 2, 598a 12, 591a 10, 697a 7, 516b 15, 516b 36, 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



655a 23, 696b 3 6, 697a 8, 517a 1, 476a 2, 489b 6, 505a 13 5, 

 695b 4, 489b 30, 676b 3 4 5, 520a 17 18 19, 564b 20, 718b 35, 

 733a 10, 754a 33, 733a 8 11, 537a 30, 535b 24, 538a 29, 540b 19 

 10 12, 621b 25 28, 570b 32, 489b 16, 718b 33, 754a 23 32, 564b 15 

 16, 492a 27, 503b 3, 511a 4 7 9 12, 516b 15, 475b 20, 676b 2, 718b 

 32, 732b 1, 754a 23, 755a 12, 755b 2, 676b 2, 566a 24, 570b 32, 

 566a 15, 565b 30, 566a 26, 571a 1, 540b 14, 755b 8 12, 539a 29, 

 505a 26, 489b 6, 540b 17, 505a 3, 517a 1, 540b 6 8 10 12 17, 565b 

 28, 489b 30, o65b 24-31, 695b 9, 1527b 40 44. Cf. also ^yO.ayioHzt^. 



li/.a/o? is a term much used by Aristotle in a broad sense to 

 include a wide variety of fishes. I's/.a/cuor^^ is also used, wlietber 

 as equivalent to a-ika/og or in a still more comprehensive sense, is 

 not clear. Pliny ix, 24 (78), says : " There is another kind of flat 

 fishes which have cartilage for the spine (pro spina), as the raicp, 

 pastinacce, squatince, torpedo and those which the Greeks call by the 

 names hovis (,S"yv"), lamia, aquila (asro^), and ra^ia (^{idTpayix;^, in 

 which number are also ihesquali although these arenotflat ( p^ctm). 

 All these collectively Aristotle called oz'/Ayr^, he first having given 

 them this name. AVe (Latins) can not give them a distinctive 

 name unless we may be permitted to call them cartilaginous (carti- 

 laginea)." 



I gather the following points from Aristotle: Any animal is 

 called a ai'Kayoq which, being without feet and having gills, is vivi- 

 parous (or ovoviviparous). All the aO.dyr^ except the iidrfniyii^ are 

 externally viviparous, having first produced eggs Avithin themselves 

 (i. e. are ovoviviparous). 



Their uterus, or oviduct, is forked and extends to the u-u'^ioixa 

 (diaphragm, peritoneum). 



The (tZ/Ayr^ are ^jdzix;, -<n>Y(j)\>, /'jVtj, /?oyc, /.dij.ta, ricTt/c, '^dfr/.r^, ^d~pa- 



yo<s and all the yaktwoTj. They have uncovered gills; some are 

 elongated in form, e. g. the jaltoi; others flat, e. g. the ^dToi. Some 

 of the (Tz'/Ayri do not have fins, viz., the flat ones and those having 

 tails, such as iid-rdi; and zjwyu)'^. These swim by means of the " flat- 

 ness itself." But the tid-iiayo^ has fins, and so do all which do not 

 have the flat parts thin. Some are rough, others smooth. The 

 viviparous fishes, such as the <7=.hi.yr„ have cartilaginous bones (are 

 yo'jdpa/MjOa), but the oviparous ones have a spine like the back- 

 bone Q'ldy.^) of quadrupeds. The liver of the <Tz/.dyr^ becomes fatty 

 and an oil is melted from it, although the (rs/.dyrj themselves are 

 very free from fat both in their flesh and abdomen. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



They sleep at times so that they are eveu caught with the hand ; 

 they take their young into their mouths, except the {io-paynq^ are 

 purely carnivorous, and most of them have no pyloric appendages ; 

 the female is larger than the male, and the males can usually be dis- 

 tinguished from the females by two appendages hanging near the 

 vent. 



All the (Tz'/.ayo'jor^ have at the same time ova in great numbers 

 above near the ''>-6Zoj!J.a, some larger and others smaller, while they 

 already have embryos below. They are rough and without scales. 

 They lie torpid during the wintriest days. 



Galen vi, 737, derives the name ai'Kayoi from gDm^,, a bright 

 light or blaze, or shining. He says : " The skin of such creatures 

 is rough and shining in the night, wherefore also some say they have 

 been named aOAy.a from having (li/.aq (a phosphorescence). 



26. Raja undulata (Lacepede). 

 Apost. 9. 



27. Raja fuUonica (L). 



Apost. 9 (Raja chagrinea). 



Family AETOBATID^. 



28. Aetobatis aquila (L). 



Apost. 9 (Myliobatis aquila). t A-:to^? = eagle, Lat. aquila. 

 Arist. 540b 18 mentions d—o? as one of the (st'/.'L/r^. Compare 

 Plin. N. H. 9, 78, aquila. 



29. Aetobatis bovina (Geoffrey St. Hilaire). 



Apost. 9 {Myliohatis bovina). Xs/.'.d('»a. in some parts of Greece. 

 A'£/.'.o(ha. the swallow, is also a common M. G. name for Trigla 

 hirundo, as I found in the market at Athens. 



Family DASYATID^. 



30. Dasyatis pastinaca (L). 



Apost. 9 (Trygon vulgaris), "j Tfi'jyw-^ at Paros, ^ jiooTniiuoa ^.i 

 Chalcis. Arist. 598a 12, 1527b 40, 695b 9 28, 489b 31, 540b 8, 

 565b 28, 566b 1, 540b 8, 620b 24. Athen. viii, 21, Lat. Trygon, 

 Plin. 9, 155. 



Tfioydjy as a bird is the turtle-dove. The fish called rooyu)-^, 

 says Arist., is a flat ni'Kaynq with no fins, but swimming by means 

 of its flat parts, has a rough tail, does not admit its young into its 

 mouth, is pelagic, buries itself in the sand. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Family MANTID^. 



31. Mobula edentula (Briinnich). 



A post. 9 (Cephaloptera giornci). 



Family CHIMJERIDiE. 



32. Chimaera monstrosa L. 

 Apost. 9. 



Family ACIPENSERID^. 



33. Acipenser sturio. 



Apost. 10 (^Acipenser sturio), j (rrdnpiov. at Corfu. 



Family SILURID^. 



34. Silurus glanis (L). 



It is not known that this species really occurs in Greece. 



35. Parasilurus aristotelis (Agassiz). 



Apost. 31 {Silurus glanis). f ^^•'^''"'^'- called j yoo^.tavo^ (g(oo)l- 

 (y)anus) at Larissa, where it is caught in the Peneus River. 

 na',6? at Vrachori. Aristotle 50oa 17, 490a 4, 506b 8, 568b 

 loff, 608a 3 4, 568a 22 b 22, 568a 25 b 14, 569a 3, 621a 21 b 2, 

 602b 22 24. 



This species is identified by Apost. with the ^/av:? of Aristotle. 

 Agassiz and Garman refer Aristotle's account to Parasilurus aris- 

 totelis, found in the Acheloiis River, in Acarnania, Greece. 



The yMfio'jh)^, says Aristotle, swims with its feet and tail, 

 and, to compare a small thing to a great, has a tail like the yld'^'.'i. 

 Some fish have four gills, each double except the last, as for 

 instance y-'-yyf,. 'ifr/.r^. y/.wh^, -/.o-ih-mx;. The y'/yv^t^ has the gall on 

 the liver. The ;'/«vj;9and -ipy.ai emit the bunch of eggs (to y.nrijj.a) 

 united just as the {id-rfiayw. do. The larger y/A'^t:^ lay their eggs in 

 the deep places, some even a fathom deep, but the smaller ones lay 

 them in more shallow water, usually near the roots of a willow or 

 some other tree ; also near the reed and the {ipho'^ (some kind of a 

 weed). The growth of the yhh^'.^ from the ^g^^ is very slow, wherefore 

 the male watches them forty or fifty days that the offspring may 

 not be devoured by the little fishes which happen along. The Qg'g 

 of the yldnq is, when laid, as large as a grain of vetch. No pesti- 

 lential (universal?) disease attacks the fishes of rivers and ponds, 

 but peculiar diseases fall on some of them, as the yhhy.^ especially. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



because it swims near the surface, becomes star-struck in the time 

 of the dog-star ; it is also stupefied by loud thunder. The y'/AvaiQ in 

 the shallows are destroyed iu large numbers by being struck by 

 the dragon-serpent. The river and lake fish are best after the emis- 

 sion of the eggs and semen, when they recover their flesh. The 

 yuhc? is not good while pregnant. In all the rest the males are 

 better than the females, but the female y/M>'.'} is better than the male. 

 Of the river fishes the male ^/«>;9 bestows much care upon its 

 young. The female departs when she has laid her eggs, but the 

 male, remaining where most of the eggs collect, keeps guard over 

 them, affording no other assistance except preventing the other 

 small fishes from seizing the offspring. It does this forty or fifty 

 days until the young, having grown, are able to escape from the 

 other fishes. 



Family CYPRINID^. 



36. Cyprinus carpio (L). 



Apost. 30-31 {Cyprinus carpio and eo/Zari), called f -/artV^a in 

 Thessaly. 



37. Carassius auratus (L.) 



Apost. 31 {Carassius auratus), "f y.»y.xc'>o(^'anoj ved-^sh.:= f /p'»Tu- 

 d'apo, gold-fish. Iiijxxvyo? is used of a light or yellowish-red, even 

 of a yellow color, e. g. /.o/.xi.'dot rob anyoo is yolk of the egg. 



38. Barbus meridionalis (Risso). 

 Apost. 31. 



39. Tinea tinea (L). 



Apost, 31 {Tinea vulgaris). 



40. Leueiscus cephalus (L). 

 Apost. 31 {Squalius cephalus). 



Family CLUPEID^. 



41. Harengula aurita (Cuv. & Yal.) H. * (Pptcrfja Q. Idp-nvMX (J. 

 Apost. 31 {Sardinella aurita), f cr;Wa, f 6'/>;Vc-«. f (rapOz/.o/jAva 



(mother of the sardine) ; f xi--a at Corfu. Arist. 621b 16, 1528a 

 40. Athenaeus vii, 137. 



Aristotle speaks of the OpifTfja as one of the more bony fishes. 

 Athenaeus says Xalxioz^ and the like, Opinaa.'.. Tp>./>'h>}. Ipizipot. 

 Doric mentions the river Spirraa and calls the rptyi'i Tpi/Ja<^. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Plainly {^piaaa (f^piyja)^ ~p'-X'-i and rot/ta^ are all derived from 

 Opt^ (gen. ~pty/"i) hair. 'I'piaaa and cr:Wa are corruptions oi Opiaaa. 



42. Harengula phalerica (Risso). 



Apost. 31 (Meletta phalerica), f -a--uA{Mj.. A doubtful species. 



43. Clupeapilchardus (L). H. -af>di/M (^.^^ * "/'^/'''S' (i)- 



Apost. 32 (^Alosa sardina), aap^Oji. lapdiXa is It. sardelli. This 

 would seem to be connected by derivation with Lat. sarda, Plin. 

 32, 151 and 46 ; Sardina Col. 8, 17, 12. Idndr, and aapSrivrj. Galen. 

 lapdi'M)?, Arist. 15ola 8, Athen. vii, 137. 



Athenaeus says Aa/.y.cdsg and the like, Optiraw., rp'.yjd=.<i, ipi.-:'.p.oi. 

 Epainetus, in his work on fishes, says yaly.i5s<, which they also call 

 Gap(V.,>(it. Aristotle calls them (the ya/.y.i(h<i or kpiripjit) (To.pdV^(i'.. 



It is evident from the above that the names ya/./.{ihf, fyaptJlxn, 

 dpifffjut and -p'.yjhf were used for fishes similar to one another. 

 This corresponds to the M. G. use of ^'ypiaaa {Harengula aurita), 

 aapdika and rp'.yu'i^. {-tpinaa and rpcyids*^, M. G. rpcyto'f, are derived 

 from Op'':^ Gen. -p'-y<h\ hair, and doubtless refer to the fine hair-like 

 bones of the sardines. Sardelli, sardinelli, (xupor^ot, may be dimin- 

 utives from sarda, and all these words obviously are derived from 

 lapod), the A. G. name of Sardinia. Cf. Athen. iii, 92 for <rdp8a 

 resemble the xoM'ag in size. 



For Tptyu'iq cf. Tpiyca? and rpiyc'^ Arist. 569b 26, 598b 12, 543a 5, 

 1528b 1. The rptyiag breeds twice a year. From the Phaleric 

 xu)6lTi<i are produced psp.6pd8s^, from these rptyidsg, and from these 

 rpiyj.a'.. The rp'.yju are caught only as they swim into the Pontus, 

 but they are not seen coming out of it. Whenever one is caught 

 in the neighborhood of Byzantium the fishermen cleanse their nets 

 thoroughly, because it is not customary for it to swim out (i. e. 

 they cleanse their nets because the catching of one is so unusual a 

 thing as to be considered an evil omen and contaminating). 



The reason for this is that they swim up the Ister (Danube) to 

 where it splits and then come down into the Adriatic. This is 

 proved by the fact that there the reverse happens ; for they are not 

 caught going into the Adriatic, but only swimming out. 



Athen. vii, 137, rp'.yuJs'?. Aristophanes Knights, 662. Tpry'.os^ 

 a hundred for an obol (3 cents). 



44. Clupea alosa (L)- 



Apost. 32 (^^^l^osayinia). 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



45. Clupea rufa (Lacepede). 

 Apost. 32 {Alosa vulgaris). 



Family STOLEPHORID^. 



46. Stolephorus encrasicholus (L). H. ''^ Fabf/d'^ (^). 



Apost. 32 (^Eagrcmlisencrasicholus), f /a^'-;'. /"ay/x^- means proud, 

 haughty, both in A. G. and M. G. 



Family SALMONID^. 



47. Salmo fario (L). 



Apost. 33 {Trutta fario), f -inrrunpa. 



Family SYNODONTIDJE. 



48. Synodus saurus (L). H. ly.aiiii.u^ (^.^. 



Apost. 32 (Saurus fasciatus), tTxaf/rj/j^. I find nothing correspond- 

 ing to it in the A. G. 



49. Aulopus filamentosus (Bloeh). 



Apost. 32. 



Family PARALEPIDID-53. 



50. Paralepis coregonoides (Risso), 

 Apost. 32. 



51. Paralepis sphyraenoides (Risso). 



Apost. 33. 



Family ANGUILLID^. 



52. Anguilla anguilla (L). H. -AV/; Q. 



Apost. 33 (Anguilla vulgaris), /i/-;, f fTouo/M/wTd/n (spit-nose or 

 awl-nose) at Missolonghi, \yXa6i-aa at Sciathus. 



XiKi is plainly the M. G. form of the A. G. ir/p."^. Arist. 489b 

 27, 534a 20, SO-Sa 15, 506b 9, 507a 11, 517b 8, 538a 3 13, 696a 4 

 b 22, 1529a 37, 567a 20 21, 569a 6 8, 504b 30, 520a 24, 570a 3 15 

 24, 505a 27, 696b 22, 708a 4 7, 707b 28, 741b 1, 570a 13, 591b 30, 

 709b 12, 762b 23 28, 608a 5, 520a 24, 1529a 24-35, 569a 8, 538a 

 11, 592a 3-27. The ty/J'/jj-i is elongated and smooth, has only two 

 fins, these fins towards the gills, has four single gills on each side, 

 has the gall on the liver, has a gullet (nznudyn^), but this gullet is 

 small, has but little fat about the stomach and caul, is neither male 

 nor female, and does not engender anything from itself, as none of 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



them has ever been found with eggs in it. What they call a differ- 

 ence of male and female in the -y/J/.oQ, in that the so-called male 

 has the head larger and longer and the female small and pug-nosed, 

 is not a difference of sex but of species. All male fishes have milt 

 (^Oopiif) except the t^-/ik>^, but this has neither eggs nor milt. The 

 iyyihj^ passes from the lakes into the sea. They are not produced 

 either from copulation or eggs. In some marshy lakes when the 

 water has all been drained off and the mud has been scraped out 

 the eels (^iy/Jltt^) make their appearance again when the rainwater 

 collects. They are not produced in the dry places, neither in the 

 permanent lakes, for they live and are nourished by the rain water. 

 Some persons suppose they are produced from the little Avorms 

 found in some iy/J/.si'?. This is not true, but they are produced 

 from the so-called "entrails of the earth " (earth-worms), which 

 originate spontaneously in the mud and moist earth. Some (eels) 

 have already been seen coming out of these (earth-worms), and 

 others may be seen in those pulled to pieces. But in the sea and 

 in rivers such things are produced, especially where there is putre- 

 faction, in the sea weed of the sea, and about the margins of rivers 

 and ponds where the heat is intense. 



The iy/J/.oi requires pure water and soon suffocates in foul water. 

 The eel-raisers (iy/jhirfi6<po:) keep the water constantly flowing in 

 and out of their tanks. Those who fish for eels (iy/iks'.'s') stir up 

 the water. The r/-/J/.s'.'s which have died do not come up and float 

 on the surface like most fish, for they have the stomach (y.ot/jla) 

 small. (Possibly y.oO.io., literally hollow, here means swimming 

 bladder.) A few of them have fat, but most of them have not. They 

 live five or six days out of the water, more when they are northern, 

 fewer when southern. If transferred in spring from the lakes to 

 the tanks they die, but not so in the winter. They do not endure 

 violent changes of temperature, dying if plunged into cold w'ater. 

 Some live seven or eight years. The river lyyjltt<$ take food, 

 devouring one another and plants and roots, and whatever they 

 find in the mud. They feed mostly at night, but during the day 

 they retire into the depths. Those which men call the females are 

 the better ; but they call them so by mistake, they being of different 

 species. 



The word iy/i'/.o^ is at least as old as Homer (II. 21, 203 and 353), 

 and is probably cognate with the Latin angnilla and English eel. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Family CONGRID^. 



53. Ophisoma balearicum (De La Roche). H, ^ ZrAovrapdoi (J, 



Not seeu by Apostolides. If the word is genuine Greek it must 

 mean foam-leopard or storm-leopard, from Zd/.r^ (^a/09), surging, 

 foam, storm, and -driOD';. 



54. Leptocephalus conger (L). 11. Movy/pt (j). 



Apost. 34 (Conger vulgaris, variety Conger niger), pooyypt, 

 ■f opuyya at Missolonghi. The y'lyypn? of Aristotle 489b 27, 590b 

 17-19, 505a 27, 505a 14, 696a 4, 708a 3, 507a 10, 506b 18, 571b 1, 

 571a 28, 599b 6, 707b 28, 591a 6 10 18, 610b 15-17, 5S8a 18. 



All those fishes which are long and smooth, as the iy/iXw} and 

 yoyyptx;. have only two fins. Some fishes have tAvo gills on each 

 side, the one single and the other double, as e. g. the yoyypoii and 

 a/.dpd^. Some of the yuyypui have the gall upon the liver, others 

 below, separated from it. A few of the fishes have a gullet {aTup- 

 o-yi^), as e. g. the yi<yypo^ and lyyihj^;, and these have it small. (For 

 (TTi'ipfv/o^ = olnocayo^ cf. 495a 18 b 19, 496a 2.) Only those fishes 

 which lay the crumbling spawn {to (I'aOupd-^ ww) have thin scales 

 (/£-:V5-9). For the yoyypu^ does not have such spawn, neither does 

 the p.npavM). nor the iy/J/.u?. The yuyypoi also have egg-masses (y-oTJ- 

 /jtara), but the egg-mass is not very apparent on account of the fat. 

 It has a long egg-mass just as serpents have. But when placed 

 upon the fire it makes its nature evident, for the fat smokes and 

 melts but the eggs jump and crackle when squeezed out. And 

 besides, if a person feels and rubs them with his fingers the fat 

 feels smooth, but the spawn rough. Now some yoyypot have fat but 

 no spawn, while others, on the contrary, have no fat and much 

 spawn, as has just been described. The -/.dpadot (Spiny lobsters ? ) 

 overpower the yoyypm ; for on account of the roughness of the 

 y.dpafx)'. the yoyypm do not slip away from them. The Y<'>yypo(., 

 however, devour the -<>k''j-t>oz^, for the -o/.ozodz'? cannot manage 

 them on account of their smoothness. Some -o/.o-6(h'^ have their 

 arms (rr/sxrava^, coils) eaten oft" by the yoyypm. The popav^a, optfo^ 

 and yoyypo'} also hibernate (^'■(oXovrrr^, lie quiet or torpid). Fre- 

 quently the xsfTzpel'} and the yoyypot live when the tail has been 

 taken away up to the vent. The xstrrpeo^ is eaten oft* by the labrax 

 and the yoyypog by the popaiva. The battle is to the stronger against 

 the weaker, for the stronger devour the weaker. Some of the fishes 

 change their places from the open sea to near the land and from the 




1892.] STATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



laud to the open sea, avoiding the extremes of cold and heat. The 

 TpuY(i)\>^ asMyji, \i\i\te yuyYpo'.^ y/v^'^r,, ipuOplvo<i a,ndiY)M.u/.o<; 2iVQ^e\.iig\C 

 (jtekdywi) ; but the (pdyput^ G/.upT.wi^ black yi'>yypoi, ivjpav^a'. and 

 xux/.uyt<i change from one place to the other. Some of the long 

 and thick fishes, as the hyyiXu'S^ y'rYP*"!, etc., do not have the fins on 

 the belly (i. e. the ventral and anal fins). They all eat one another 

 (except the xsffrpso?), and the yoyypm especially do so. Some have 

 only two fins, as ih^yoyypo'i^ lyyiko^^ and a certain kind of y.za-pdjii. 

 Latin Conger cf. Plin. N. A. 9, 72, 9, 57, 9, 87, 9, 185. Also 

 gonger, 32, 147. 



Family ECHELID^. 



55. Echelus myrus (L). 



Apost. 34 {Myrns vulgaris). 



Family OPHISURIDiE. 



56. Ophisurus serpens (L). 



Apost. 34 (Ophisurus serpens), f eidc z7j^ //a/a<7ffr^9, serpent of the 

 sea. Arist. {fa/Azruit owe'.^, 505b 8 10, 621a 2. 



The sea serpents (Oa/ATrnit ocr£;9) are in other respects similar 

 in form to the land serpents, but they have the head more conger- 

 shaped ; there are many kinds of the sea serpents, and they have 

 every sort of color. They are not found in very deep places. 



In the second reference Aristotle seems partly to contradict the 

 above, saying, the sea serpent's color and body are similar to those of 

 the yoyypn^ except that it is of a duller color and more violent in its 

 movements. If it is caught and let go it quickly goes down into 

 the sand, boring through it with its beak. It has a sharper mouth 

 than the serpents. 



Family MURJENID^, 



57. Muraena helena (L). H. -pip-^a (J. 



Apost. 34 (Murcena helena), apipva and f (rp.upv>a. A. G, both 

 apbpavm and p.bpavm. Arist. 707b 29 31, 489b 28, 540b 1, 517b 8, 

 540b 34, 696a 6, 1530a 9, 591a 12, 598a 14, 543a 25 29, 504b 34, 

 505a 15, 696a 6, 506b 16, 599b 6, 540b 1, 543a 20 23 24 28, 1530a 

 10, 1530a 8, 610b 17. Athen. vii, 90. 



Ip.hpavMi is identical with the form (7<vypv^a given by Apost,, 

 as both spellings would be pronounced exactly the same in M. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



G. -ij.ip'Mi., the usual M. G. form and the only one which' I heard, 

 is plainly a corruption of the same word. 



According to Aristotle the p-ofKuvo. is a long fish, does not have a 

 crumbling egg-mass, has no scales, eats flesh only, is alternately 

 pelagic and littoral, lies torpid for a season, is stronger than the 

 Y<>YYP"^ and eats off the tail of the y<''YYi><>?, has no fins, and uses the 

 sea as serpents do the land ; (i. e. moves through the sea in the same 

 way as serpents move over the ground); its gills are not articulated 

 like those of other fish; it has four single gills on each side, has the gall 

 bladder on the entrails and is long like a snake ; they copulate by twin- 

 ing around one another and bringing belly to belly like snakes, spawn 

 at any and every season, lay many eggs, and the young grow rap- 

 idly. " The (T;j.opo^ and the ap-hpaxva differ, for the apvpav^a is varie- 

 gated and weaker, but the (Tp.upo<; is of uniform color and strong, 

 and it is colored like the pine tree and has teeth both within and 

 without. People say, just as they say other things, that the one is 

 male the other female. These come out on the dry land and are 

 caught there frequently. 



According to Atheuaeus, Theophrastus says the iY'/J^''-"> &nd 

 p.npiwMj. can live a long time out of water, because they have small 

 gills. Dorio says the river p.npavMi. has, like the o^irrxof, only one 

 spine. Some people claimed that the pnpar^a came out on land and 

 held intercourse with snakes, from w-hich were engendered ven- 

 omous pJJpai'^ac. 



Athen. vii, 91, p.opo?. There are two kinds, one black and the 

 other reddish, but the black ones are best. Lat. Murcena. 



In ancient writings the phpai-Mj.^ y"YYP'^^ ^^^^ Iy'/J)^o(; are regularly 

 mentioned together showing that there was some considerable 

 resemblance to one another, and that they were regarded as all 

 belonging to the same general class. In connection with the cur- 

 rent report noted by Aristotle to the effect that of p-npo^ and pvpatva 

 one was male the other female, it is interesting to note that the same 

 belief is current among the fishermen of Greece of the present day. 

 I was told in the market at Athens that Murcena helena was the 

 female and Gymnothorax \micolor was the male of the same species, 

 both called (rp.ipya. 



58. Gymnothorax unicolor (De La Roche). H. -p.-p-^a (j). 



Not noticed by Apostolides. Said by the Greek fishermen to 

 be the male, while Murcena helena is considered the female upip'^a. 

 For ancient references to the apvpatva or pupavm see Mxir^na 

 helena. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Family ESOCID^. 

 59. Esox belone (L). H. Zaiiyd'Mi (j). 



Apost. 32 {Belone acus.), f ,3e/jr^ioa, ^ar,yd>a. Aristotle makes 

 frequent mention of a iish called (S's/ovrj. lh/.t»i(Ja would be a 

 natural M. G. equivalent for this. See Arist. 610b 6, 506b 9, 

 543b 11, 571a 2ff, 567b 18, 755a 33, 616a 32. 



IhXovr, = needle. Cont. Lex. gives also lit/M'^iSi and [ithh'. as 

 names for the needle-fish. 



From Aristotle I glean the following statements with regard to 

 the /jsAovt; : 



It is a long fish (i. e. not flat) and has the gall bladder on the 

 liver. It spawns in winter. When it is time for it to spawn it 

 bursts open and so the eggs come out ; for this fish has a sort of 

 division (partition) under the belly and intestine (r,Tp<i'^) just as 

 the snakes called rw^'/i'va! have. After it spawns these parts grow 

 together again. Its eggs are spread around it just as in the case of 

 the spiders, for the female [izhhri lays them attached to herself, and 

 if any one touches them they scatter. The {ith'iva'. run in shoals. The 

 halcyon seems to make its nest chiefly from the bones of the ^itli'ryq. 



See Athen. vii, 111, where ^zko'^ri n= paci^. Vide under -/.o-iju- 

 Xidpa, (Tuxxofjdcfa, Syngnathus acus. 



Zaiiyfhf/.. Cont. Lex. ^Ujiyd-^ri and (japywja^ needle-fish. lafiyd'^-q 



in A. G. means a braid, a basket. Arist. 610b 6, has frapyVyo-i men- 

 tioned among fish found in schools. This may easily be a mistake 

 for ffupor/o'i. lapylxtg occurs also in Athen. vii, 313 and 321. The 

 name seems to be a derivative of aapyo^. Cf also Athen. viii, 52, 

 patfi'i or {jzh'ivri^ called also «o/£vv5j'?. 



Family EXOCCETIDJE. 



60. Scombresox rondeletii (Cuv. cfe Val). 

 Apost. 32. 



61. Exocoetus volitans (L). 



Apost. 32 (Exoccetns volitans), /£Ajowv'H''«/"'(^), swallow-fish. The 

 specimen sold me under the name yjhdovuil'apoQ/) was Dadylop- 

 terus volitans, Apost. 15, also given as yjltoir^u^'n-po by Apostolides. 

 Family SYNGNATHID^. 



62. Hippocampus hippocampus (L).i H. 'A'/jiyd/.'. (j). 



Apost. 11 (mppocampus brevirostris), dkoyd/.'., little horse. This 

 would seem to be the fish called (--oxap-o'S by the ancients. Aris- 



^Apostolides records also Hippocampus gutlulatus Cuvier — probably an error 

 in identification, as the American species is unknown in the Mediterranean. 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



totle does not mention the '.--('r/.ap-n^. The word was used by the poets 

 as the name of a sea monster, half horse and half fish, on which the 

 sea gods rode. As the name of a fish it seems to occur only in late 

 writings. Its stomach was regarded as a poison of peculiar power 

 and also as possessing medicinal and magic powers. See Menand. 

 Incert. 211,Strabo 384, Philostratus 774, Dioscorides 2 3, Aelian 

 N. A. 14, 20, Plin. N. H. 32, 58 67 83 93 109 113 139 149, 36, 26. 

 The references in Pliny refer chiefly to the use of the Hippocampus 

 and its ashes as a medicine. In none of the references which I 

 have examined in either Greek or Latin is there anything given, 

 so far as I can see, which helps to identify the animal. The only 

 reason, so far as I know, for identifying it with the sea horse is the 

 mythological use of the term and the fact that the first part of the 

 name is undoubtedly Zrro?, horse. Td y.drj-og occurs as the name of 

 a sea monster in Lycophron 414. A'd/j-rj = caterpillar. Kdp-rm 

 v^ -/.'/.ij- = to bend. These words may all be connected in origin 

 and meaning. 



"IrzTzoy.d/j.-uty, Epicharmus 16, Ahr. 



63. Siphonostoma acus (L). H. AarooAiOfja (^). 



Apost. 11 (Syngnathus acus), xo-oup/.ida, \ aay./.opdipa (sack- 

 needle). 



"^Paipi^s (Gen. f'motSo?), needle, occurs as the name of a fish in 

 Athen. vii, 111. In a quotation from Epicharmus occurs the 

 expression o'^onoyyoi pa<f{fh?j sharp-billed fjaciozQ. Dorio says " the 

 ,3z?.i'r>rj which they call fja<pc<>," needle. Arist. in the fifth book of 

 Parts of Animals calls it iSe/.o^r^, but in his work on animals or 

 fishes, having called it pa(p{9, he says that it is toothless. Speusip- 



pus calls it i''e/.o>rj. Cf. ,3z/jr^{da. 



64. Typhle typhle (L). H. KazpoUopa Q. 

 Apost. 11 (Siphonostoma argentatuin). 



65. Syngnathus sequoreus (L). 



Apost. 11 (Enteluriis anguineus) may be some other species 

 instead of S. cequoreus. 



Family MUGILID^. 



66. Mugil cephalus (L). H. Ki(pa)M<; Q. 



Apost. 27 {Mugil cephalus), /J<pa/.o<s, f yooo^.'. at Chalcis ; at 

 Missolonghi the males are called j (^'^^^padta, the females f /izd^si. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Kic-a/ji? is common in Arist. See 543b 15, 567a 19, 570b 15, 591a 

 13-30, 602a 4,1529b 17. The ;^/cr«/o^-, according to Aristotle, is 

 one kind of y.z<TTf>z>'>^. It begins to be pregnant in November or 

 December and is pregnant thirty days ; it has scales and is ovipar- 

 ous, feeds on mud or slime ; like all the y.tdTpzT^ it is not car- 

 nivorous ; these (the ■/.z:(jTf>sl^') are the only fishes which are not 

 carnivorous, and have never been caught with any flesh in their 

 stomachs. The fishermen never use flesh bait for them, but use 

 barley-cake. The xt^Tpzi^ all feed on sea-weed and sand. The 

 7.i<f aXog, which some call yX'Mv^ is a littoral fish. The y.icalot. feed 

 on mud, and for this reason they are heavy and slimy. The winter 

 is beneficial to most fishes, but not so to the xeffzpsu? and y.i(falo<i. 

 The xica/.o^ especially suflfers from the rain and cold in winter. 

 Their eyes become white and the fishes become blind and light in 

 weight, and finally die. In the shallows at Nauplia and elsewhere 

 many have been caught blind Avheu there came severely cold 

 weather. The eyes of many were white. Athen. vii, 77-79 under 

 the heading y.ttjzne')^ has many references to the /.icahxi, which is 

 regarded as one kind of y.zUTfn'')^. He says that Dorio in his work 

 on fishes describes the marine division of the xarxTpzlg but does not 

 consider the rixer xsTTpz'j'g. He makes the kinds of marine xsazpto<i 

 to be xicsa/.o'} and v^^rj^. 



Hesychius, under the Avord xiea/.oc, says some of the xzazpzli; are 

 so called. 



There is some confusion in regard to the relation of the xicakoc 

 and xzarpsTg^ but in general the xi<pa)Mi are spoken of as a subdi- 

 vision of the xt(TTpzij<;. In some places, however, they seem to be 

 distinguished from one another. Keazpsof; seems to have been used 

 in a double sense, at times in a broad sense including the y.i<pakoi, 

 and again in a more restricted sense. 



67. Mugil capito (L). H. Ki(pah>q (J. 



A.post. 27 (3fugil capito), f Aaytddef at Chalcis, f ^sXdvi<rs'i at 

 Aitolico. For ancient use of xi(pak()<i v. sub. Mugil cephahcs. A 

 fish seems to have been called Xayax^, the hare, in ancient times, 

 but I can find nothing definite about it. Lepus marimis, the sea 

 hare, is very common in Pliny, where it is represented as exceed- 

 ingly venomous. Vide Plin. 9,' 155, 32, 9. The name most like 

 ftskdv'.ffsi} are i-ithhr, and ^Uwo^. Of the latter Athen. vii, 29, says 

 it resembles the xioC'.n^ in appearance. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



68. Mngil saliens ^Risso). 



Apost. 27 {Magil saliens), f /ivctvdpc, at Missolonglii and Cbalcis. 

 "j" Ks(sa).dd£<i at Volo. For ■/.E:<fa/AS£<^ compare y.i(fah><;. "j" Mo'Er/dpt 

 would be natural M. G. form of /j-oBw^, found in A. G. writings. 

 Arist. 570b 2, 543b 15. Written also (r/j/jcor^. The name is from 

 lj.ij^a, mucus, slime ; usually the mucous discbarge from the nose. 

 According to Arist. the /e/wv, ffdpYo<i^ (^(T)tj.iy=a)v and xi^a/.o? are 

 different kinds of xscrrpeu?. Athen. vii, 77, under xsazpeu?, has as 

 one kind pjjV^vo<i. This is an inferior kind of xsa-zpeug, the xi<^a/j><^ 

 being best. 



69. Mugil labeo (Cuvier). 



Apost. 27 (Mugil labeo), -f ydcrzpo?. f U/Mzapida at Chalcis. Fdrr- 

 Tpii? is obviously from yatrrrjp, belly, and may mean big-bellied fish. 



70. Mugil chelo (Cuvier). 



Apost. 27 (Mugil chelo), f/s/.w^ia. Arist. 543b 15, 570b 2, 

 1529b 17 19, 591a 23. 



Of the xErrrpsT-?, says Aristotle, the /j/wv£c, the ffdpyo?, the one 

 called apoSiov and the xi<fa/.og begin to be pregnant in December. 

 The xi(fu/.<i^, which some call yt/M>. is littoral, but the -£paia<i is 

 not. 



See also Athen. vii, 77. 



71. Mugil curtus (Yarrell). 



Apost. 27 (Mugil curtus), called at Missolonghi f paopd/.'., black, 

 when small, and -f huxuxx;, white, when full grown. This is a 

 doubtful species, unknown to us. 



It seems evident that Mugil is the xsffTpso? of Aristotle and other 

 A. G. writers, and that the xi^a/.o?, pu'Ewv and ytldr^ are species 

 under this. 



Family ATHEEINIDJE. 



72. Atherina hepsetus (L). 



Apost. 27 (Atherina hepsetus), di%piva. Arist. mentions the 

 af^tphfj 570b 15 and 571a 6 ; also d&spTvo?, 610b 6. He says it lays 

 its eggs near the land, rubbing its belly on the sand. The di'^splvoc. 

 are gregarious, i. e. they go in shoals. 



73. Atherina boyeri (Risso). H. 'Af^spha (^). 

 Ai:)Ost, 28 (Atherina boyeri). 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



74. Atherina mochon (Cuvier it Yal). H. 'J'^s/nVa (j). 

 Not noticed by Apostolides. 



Family SPHYRJENIDiE. 



75. Sphyrsena sphyraena (L). H. Aour^og (,). 



Apost. 28 {Sphynejia spet), /MhrZixi and f (raopaiva, the (JC'vpatva 

 of Aristotle, 610b 5. The acpopatva is gregarious. 



Athen. vii, 122. The Attic Greeks call the (Tffupav^a y.in-pa. 

 Speusip2:)us says that the -/.inzpa (or (swhpavjci) yj£/(>vry and aaopi^ are 

 similar. 



Family XIPHIIDJE. 



76. Xiphias glad'.us (L.) 



Apost. 21 (Xiphias gladius), f 5'.<f'.o'i. Hesychius gives :'.(f '.<'>•; as 

 equal to 'Etcfia^i. The name is derived from Eicfo^^ sword, and means 

 sword-fish. For $'.(fta<s see Aristotle 1530a 17-21, 505b 18, 506b 

 16, 602a 26 30. 



Arist. says of the 'Eicpia^: It has eight double gills on each side, 

 and has the gall on the entrails ; in the dog-days it has beside its 

 fins a sort of little worm called olnrpoq, like a scorpion, as large as 

 a spider. These cause them such pain that at times the ctcpia^ leaps 

 out of the water like the dolphin, and at times they even fall into 

 boats. 



Athen. vii, 96, says that Aristotle says : " The |;f^:'«9 has the under 

 part of its beak short but the upper part bony and large, equal to 

 its whole size. This is called the sword (ItVw^), but the fish has no 

 teeth." 



Family ECHINEIDID^. 



77. Echeneis naucrates (L). 

 Apost. 22. 



78. Bemora remora (L). 



Apost. 22 (Echeneis remora). 



Family CORYPHJENIDJE. 



79. Coryphsena hippurus i L.) 



Apost. 21 (Coryphcena hippurus), j ).ap-(r>ya, f ixwrnXtrx. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Family TRICHIURID^. 



80. Tricliiurus lepturus (L). 



Apost. 22 {Trlchiurus lepturus'), j ff-at'foi^'apo, blade-fish. 



81. Lepidopus caudatus (Euphrasen). 



Apost. 22 (Lepidopus argentexis'), f f/fo? at Patras and y -''''■:«z«9 at 

 Corfu. 



Family SCOMBRID^. 



82. Scomber scombrus (L). 



Apost. 19 {Scomber scomber), (t/jio/jm//'!. 



83. Scomber colias (Gmelin). H. ly.ou/j.opi (j). rr/jnw r>i (j), * Trtr^fjixi (j). 

 Apost. 19 {Scomber colias), -/.(i/.t(k. 



The specimen which I bought as xo/.'.'k got lost, so that although 

 I secured the name I can not be sure of the species to which it was 

 attached. 



Arist. ffx«,af/>09, 610b 7, 597a 22, 571a 14, 571a 12, 599a 2. The 

 (xy-op-Sfiut copulate about April and spawn about July or A.ugust. 

 The weaker animals always migrate first at each extreme of heat or 

 cold, the (T/M/j-Spui before the Oo^xn, and the quails before the cranes. 

 Frequently when the south wind blows against the xo/.ia'. and (t/.ujj.- 

 6pi)i as they are swimming out of the Black Sea, they are caught 

 below more than about Byzantium. AoXiat, ff/.uijMpot and -rj/M/xud£<? 

 run in schools. Athen. vii, 116. Hicesius says the tr/.o/j.opot are 

 less in size than the /.oliat, but more nutritious. Arist. -/.oUaq^ 610b 

 7, 543a 2, 598a 24. The most of the /.o'/Jm'. do not migrate into the 

 Pontus but pass the summer in the Propontis and spawn, while 

 they pass the winter in the Aegsean. The y.u/J.ai are caught when 

 they are passing into the Propontis, and in smaller numbers as they 

 pass out. They are best in the Propontis before they spawn. The 

 GxopSpoi and -/m'/Jju (are gregarious) go in schools. 



Athen. iii, 92. The adpoa is like the /.iiAia^ in size. 



84. Gymnosarda alliterata (Rafinesque). 



Apost. 19 {Thijnnus tlmjnnina), f roviVa at Chalcis. 



The tunny (O'wo?, fem. 0u>va and dov/'s), is probably mentioned 

 oftener than any other fish in A. G. writers. Arist., 0'j»o<:, 488a 6, 

 505a 27, 591a 11, 537a 21 23, 543a 12, 571a 12 8, 607b 32, 607b 

 28, 599b 9 sq., 602a 31, 543a 1 b 3, 571a 15 14, 598b 19, 597a 22, 

 557a 27, 598a 18, 602a 26, 1531a 30, 844a. 29. tfo>:'\^, 591b 17, 

 610b 4, 1528b 6, 543a 9, 543b 12, 598a 26, 571a 10 15 18. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



I glean the following points concerning the tunnies from Aris- 

 totle : The Lh'r^'^ot are migratory and run in schools, are smooth, 

 purely carnivorous, and have the net thrown around them some- 

 times while asleep ; the female has a fin called u<saf>z'j'; under the 

 belly, but the male does not have it ; they are at times burst by 

 their fat. They live two years. The fishermen think this is proved 

 by the fact that when the duvvtds'} failed one year the Onw^oc also 

 failed the next year. They seem to be a year older than the -r//a- 

 /jLoda'S. The Ou'yxn and <7y.6/j.o/)o[ copulate about the first of April 

 and spawn about the last of June or first of July. They lay their 

 eggs in a sort of sack. The growth of the Ow^id^^ is rapid. 

 When they spawn in the Pontus (Black Sea) there come from the 

 eggs what some call a/Mfifif'uja, but the Byzantians an^tdsg (growers), 

 because they grow (ad^d-Mii') in a few days. They go forth (out of 

 the Pontus) in autumn with the Ou-^vio^^, but return in the spring, 

 being already -rj/.a/j.uds'?. 



An old OwM)'i has been caught whose weight was fifteen talents 

 (1350 lbs.), and whose length was five cubits and a span (about 8 

 ft.). The old ones are not good even for salt fish. The Ow^oi lie 

 torpid in the depths of the sea in winter, and are plumpest after 

 this hibernation. They begin to be caught about the beginning of 

 summer (the rising of the Pleiades), and are caught last at the set- 

 ting of Arcturus (winter solstice ? ). The Obwui, most of all fishes, 

 take pleasure in warmth and come to the sand near the land for the 

 sake of the warmth, because they warm themselves and swim on 

 the surface. They spawn in the Pontus (Black Sea) and nowhere 

 else, and but once a year. The On-^M)^ is good to eat again after 

 Arcturus (probably the rising of Arct., about Sept. 15), for during 

 this season it ceases to be afflicted with the (nariid^, because of which 

 pest it is inferior during the summer. The Ouwy<n and z'.(fiai are 

 infested by the (narpo'; about the dog-days. At that time they both 

 have by their fins a sort of little worm called inarixi^, like a scor- 

 pion and as large as a spider (dfidprj?). These cause them such 

 pain that the :'.c{a? leaps out of the water at times no less than the 

 dolphin. The Oow^Oh^: and zr^/.a/vMh^ enter the Pontus in spring and 

 pass the summer there both for food and spawning. They come out 

 straightway after the Pleiad (probably the setting of the Pleiades, 

 about Nov. 10). If the wnnd is a southern one they swim out more 

 slowly, but if northern more quickly, because the wind is then 

 for wafting them on. They swim into the Pontus, keeping close to 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



favorable the land on their right, but they swim out of it keeping close 

 to the land on the lej'L' The (j/.o/iuoot are weaker than the /J'wn'. 

 and migrate earlier. The (?uvv;'9 spawns in summer about the 

 month Hecatomb?eon near the vernal equinox. It lays h sort of 

 sack filled with many small eggs. 



The above are, so far as I can make out, the main points which 

 Aristotle reports concerning the Oovvot and Orr/vjh?. Whether they 

 are the same, the latter merely referring to the females, is not alto- 

 gether clear. It will be noted that some of the above statements 

 are obscure and others contradictory, at least apparently so. 



85. Albacora thynnus (L). 



Apost. 19 (Thynnu.? thyniius), /aaiV/rrzo. y Focso'} at Leucas, 

 j^/'<'j-;^ao at Zante. J/«r>/-;z« means May (-fish). I saw this fish 

 in the market at Athens and heard this name, but the fish was too 

 large to take a specimen of it, the specimens which I saw being, if 

 my memory serves me right, some five or six feet long. 



86. Gymnosarda pelamys (L). 



Apost. 19 (Thynnus brachypterus), f ooyj'rx)'? and j -/.o-a/yiiQ in the 

 Gulf of Volo. K6-o:mi<; = a knocker, pounder, pestle. Aristotle 

 has 6py.>r/s<; (^ofj/.oq), 543b 5. He says they spawn in the open sea, 



Athen. vii, 98, has Zpy-o-MXi as name of a fish. " Dorio, in his work 

 on fishes, says that the uriv.'r^ii crossing over from the sea about the 

 Pillars of Hercules come into ourAvaters, wherefore most are caught 

 in the Spanish and Tyrrhenian Seas (the sea w'est of Italy was 

 called Tyrrhenian). From there they scatter throughout the rest 

 of the (Mediterranean) sea. Hicesius says that those caught at 

 Gadeira (Gades, Spain) are fattest, and next to these, those caught 

 in Sicily; but those Avhich are far from the Pillars of Hercules are 

 poor, because they have swum for a greater distance." Aelian, Nat. 

 An. i, 40, speaks of the opy.wMXi as a monstrous (xr^ruxh/'s) fish very 

 skilful in getting the hook out of its mouth when caught. Accord- 

 ing to Sostratus, Athen. vii, QQ, the '"/>z'j>o9 is simply a O'j>-/oi grown 

 very large. So also Archestratus, Athen. vii, 63. 



87. Sarda sarda (L). H. lla/.afwda (J. 



Apost. 19 (^Pelamys sarda), -aXa/jjjua. Aristotle has the name 

 rr;/a,a69,— 6o%>9. 488a 6, 610b 6, 543a 1, 543b 2, 598a 26, 571a 19, 



^Probably meaning on what is their left as they go in ; for lie proceeds to say 

 that some persons assigned as the reason for this that they have keener vision in 

 the right eye than the left, implying that ihey always keep tlie right eye towards 

 the land. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



571a 11. The -y-iv>.uoz<; are migratory and run in schools. The 

 ■nT^Xaiiudsq, Ou-jyiot^ and «;/;'«: run into the Pontus (Black Sea) in 

 the spring and pass the summer there, spawning about the mouths 

 of streams. The young of the Oow^Oh^g are of rapid growth. In 

 the autumn they go out of the Pontus with the OuTAds<i and are 

 then called a/Mfion'/M'. (or au^ids<}). The next spring they return, 

 being already grown to be -rj/.a;j.6ih'^. 



The general belief of the fishermen from whom Aristotle derived 

 his information seems to have been that the -rj/.a/itjiJE^ were simply 

 half-grown tunnies. The first year they were axopduXat, the second 

 year -r^/.a/j.'jfh^ and the third year Ouwcds^i or Ouwoc. Athen. vii, 

 66, reports that Sostratus says the ->j/a,a'3s- is called do-^-A^, and 

 when it gets larger Ouwix}, and still larger ofr/.uyn'i. Cf. Strabo 549, 



xopou/.r^^ O'r/'^ri, -r^hi'V)^. Plinv, 9, 47. 



Family CARANGID^. 



88. Trachurus trachurus (L). H. * /I'/z^/A; (J. 



Apost. 19 (^Tracliuvus trachunis), fraonio:. Iio/.d/j. in M. G. means 

 bone or little bone. Arist. (528a 9, 761a 21) uses y.oxd/.'.ir^ as name 

 of the snail. For traufjio'. see under Trachurus mediterraneiis. 



89. Trachurus mediterraneus. (Stemdachus). H. laopiih (.^), ^ ffa/j-avto^Q). 

 Not distinguished by Apostolides. -aD,/>o9 = lizard, is used as 



name of a fish by Aristotle 610b 5. It is gregarious. In Athen. 

 vii, 120, the name is given as that of a fish, and it is substan- 

 tiated by several quotations, but nothing is given which would help 

 to identify the fish. Athen. vii, 122, says Speusippus represents the 

 y.i<TZf>a^ Ih/yiyr^ and aaopi'i (acc. ftuoiitoa') as similar. laop'j)'. is a 

 regular j\I. G. form of (raoix,^. 



90. Decapterus suareus (Risso). H. */ioxa/;(j). 



Apost. 20 (Caranx suareus), (raop-y^t ■/.o.ir^yuq, hunter naopio:. 



91. Naucrates ductor (L). 



Apost. 20 (JVauci-ates ductor), f ■/.(>o/.ayir>!^0'}. 



92. LicMa glauca (L). H, Ahffa Q. 

 Apost. 20 (Lichia glaucus), '/J-na. 



93. Lichia amia (L). 



Apost. 20 (Lichia amia), f yy.'.tfdp', f yurxsap:, f yup.capi, t /.(»)(fdp'.. 

 Fopco^ (a bolt, pin or spike) and its diminutive yop-cfapur^ were 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ancient names for a fish. They are found in Tzetzes and Oppian or 

 their scholia. See- L. & S. under the words. Compare ■^•yucdfn, 

 Pomatomus saltatrix. 



94. Lichia vadigo ( Risso). 



Apost. 20. 



Family POM ATOMID JE . 



95. Pomatomus saltatrix (L). H. ^ roc-«,o: (J. 



The common Blue-iish of America ; not noticed by Apostolides. 

 This name is probably the same as yaotsdiJi reported by Apost. 20 

 as common name for Lichia amia, where see. The man who sold 

 me the specimen probably did not distinguish it from Lichia amia. 



The names are no doubt shortened from yoij-cdrjuiy, a diminutive 

 of yuij.(po^. This is proved by the existence of yoiJ.(pdfii as a paral- 

 lel form (see Lichia amia). Both yoiico^ and yo/j.^df/'.ii.^ occur in 

 Tzetzes and Oppian (or their scholia) as the name of a fish. 



L. & S. give yo/iedfitov = xsff-fj£u<? and refer to Tzetzes ad Lyco- 

 phronem 664, and Schol. Oppian H. 1, 112, 3, 339, and a gloss, 

 yoixfo^ ly/}^o^. Fuij-tpo^ means a bolt, pin or spike. 



Both y6;j.(fn(^ and its diminutive y<>!J.<fdi>'.i)v were clearly used as 

 names of a fish or fishes ; but the authority of Tzetzes, a Byzan- 

 tine Greek of the Twelfth Century, A. D., or of a late scholiast on 

 Oppian is not sufiicient to prove that it meant z£^r//£r3f. 



Family ZENIDJE. 



96. Zeus faber (L). H. IaiJ.-yii,i) (/). 



Apost. 21 {Zens jaher), aay-iiim^^aav^-diir^'i, ^ yji'.nzi'iC'apn (Christ- 

 fish). The first three forms of the common Greek name seem to 

 be corruptions of the French or Italian for Saint Peter. 



97. Zeus pungio (Cuv. k Val). 

 Apost. 21. 



98. Capros aper (L). 

 Apost. 21. 



Family STROMATEID^. 



99. Stromateus fiatola (L). 

 Apost. 21. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Family CEPOLIDJE. 



100. Cepola taenia (L). H. '^/.poaza/S/xj. (J. 

 Apost. 22 (^Cepola ruhesce^is), j ztri-ou/.a. 



The name Cepola tcenia has priority over C. ruhescens. J. 



Family TRACHYPTERID^. 



101. Trachypterus spinolae (Cuv. &, Val). 

 Apost. 23. 



102. Trachypterus trachypterus (L). 

 Apost. 23 (Trachypterus falx). 



Family SERRANIDJE. 



103. Dicentrarclius labrax (L). H. Aaond/.i (j). 



Apost. 17 {Labrax lupus), /Ji'lfxi./.'. (for all species of this genus). 



Aristotle )Aopa= 489b 26, 534a 9, 537a 27, 543a 1 b 11, 567a 19, 

 570b 20, 591a 11 b 18, 601b 29-31, 607b 26, 610b 10, lo30a 1-4. 



The Mffpa^ has scales and is oviparous, as all fishes with scales 

 are, is carnivorous, has two fins on its back and two on its belly, 

 has an especially acute sense of hearing, is often speared in day- 

 time while sleeping, spawns twice a year, once in summer and once 

 in winter, spawns chiefly " where rivers flow," has a stone in its 

 head, and in consequence of this is especially apt to suflfer in winter, 

 being frozen to death and cast ashore. They are not good for food 

 when pregnant. The labrax and cestreus, although most hostile 

 to one another, flock together at certain seasons. For frequently 

 not only tho-se of the same species flock together but also those 

 whose food is the same or similar, if it is plenty. Athenaeus, vii, 

 86. The labrax has a tongue that is bony and grown fast, and a 

 triangular heart. It is the most intelligent of fishes, being quick to 

 see a means of escape. Its name is derived from /.dfiiniQ, violent, 

 greedy. 



104. Dicentrarclius punctatus Bloch. 



Apost. 17 {Labrax punctatus and L. lupaster). 



105. Serranus scriba (L). II. llijr/.a (,^). 

 Apost. 17 (Serranus scriba), -ipy.a'.. 



Aristotle -ip-Ay^, 505a 16, 508b 17, 568a 20 22, 599b 8, 1528a 12. 

 According to Aristotle the -ipy-r^ has four gills on a side, double 

 except the last, just as is true also in case of the ^^.''//v;, yhly-.^ and 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



-/.'j-/jl>(ii: It lias many pyloric apijendages, spawns in the stagnant 

 parts of rivers and lakes, among the reeds ; the eggs cling together 

 in a large bunch and the fishermen gather them by unwinding them 

 from the reeds. 



The y.iyhi.'., 7.()7-uci)i and -ifi/.a'. ai'e given as -erpahn, or rock- 

 fishes, and are said to hibernate and nest in pairs. 



Athen. iv, 13. "Flowery-colored -iir/.r," Yii, 110. Speusip- 

 pus says that the ~ii>y.ri, yd\>yo. and ^o/.U are similar. Epicharmus 

 calls them " gleaming." There was a proverb " The -iir/.ri follows 

 the p.zAfVMiono^y Aristotle says that the (fox.i'i is thorn-crowned and 

 variegated in color, but the -iir/.ri belongs to those which are 

 adorned with lines and have bands on their sides. 



106. Serranus cabrilla (L.) H. -V^x^s- (2). 



Apost. 17 (/Serrauifs ca6n7/a), /«vo^\ Cf. 7«vv« and/«vv>j. Aris- 

 totle 598a 13, 591a 10 b 6, 1528a 15, 538a 19 21, 567a 27, 755b 21, 

 760a 9. Most of the fishes are male and female, but concerning 

 the iii'j\hn-^i)^ and /ayvvj there is a doubt, for all of these which are 

 caught have eggs in them. The y/iyMu are purely carnivorous ; 

 they often throw out their stomachs (^/.itiliai) when pursuing the 

 smaller fishes, because the stomachs of .fishes are near to their 

 mouths and they have no gullet {aroiw-yifi). The /'/>-"/ is pelagic. 

 Athen. vii, 134. Epicharmus in the Marriage of Hebe says : 

 " Wide-gaping y(hrja>. and monstrous-bellied ovt." Aristotle calls 

 it (the y'i''''-'fi) , variegated with black and red (or salmon) and 

 adorned with lines, because it is adorned with dark lines. 



The names ydvix; and /«>!''/ mean the gaper, \/ yj--', to gape. 



107. Paracentropristis hepatus (L). II. ^ Ka^'oinvjla (j). 

 Apost. 17 (Serramis hepatus), -iir/.a. 



108. Mycteroperca rubra (Bloch). H. * Mo(Ty.a7-a-o?io (J. 

 Not noticed by Apostolides. 



109. Epinephelus gigas (Brunnich.) H. 'Pixfuq (J. 



Apost. 18 {Epinephelus gigas), fxico^ and f df)c:o')^\ Aristotle 

 591a 11,598a 10,599b 6,543b 1,1530b 27. Aristotle has the 

 forms o/vcroi- and opctui. According to him this fish is of very rapid 

 growth, is littoral, lies torpid for a season (in winter), and is purely 

 carnivorous. 



Aristophanes, Wasps, 493, speaks of the dpfoi as found in the 

 markets of Athens. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Athen. vii, 97, ofxfo'j^ and o/xstk. It is sharp-toothed aud soli- 

 tary. It is a peculiarity of it that the seminal ducts are not found 

 in it and that it can live a long time after it is cut up. It is one of 

 those which lie torpid during the stormiest days, and is more fond 

 of being near land than out in the open sea. Numenius calls it the 

 very rough optpo^. Cf. also Athen. viii, 51. 



Aelian I»[at. An. v, 18, says : The o/xfu)^ is a sea fish, and if you 

 should catch one and cut it up you would not see it dead immediately, 

 but it still partakes of motion, and for no little time. They like to 

 stay in holes throughout the winter. Cf. also Ael. Nat. An. xii^ 1. 



110. Epinephelus chrysotaenia (Doderlein). H. Izrjpa (j) 



Not seen by Apostolides. Cf. Apost. 17, Pohjprion cernium. 



111. Polyprion cernium (Cuvier). 

 Apost. 17, Tzrjpa. 



112. Anthias anthias (L). 

 Apost. 18 {Anthias sacer). 



Family APOGONIDJE. 



113. Apogon imberbis (L). 11. KaloypizfTa (j). 



Apostolides 18 {Apogon imberbis). Cf Apostolides 27, Chromis 

 castanea. 



Family SPARIDiE. 



114. Diplodus vulgaris (Geoffrey St. Ililaire). H. -«/Y«9 (,), * ffxafxiyai'- 

 oapo, (j), * dd/.tdf Q, (TrApo^ (j). 



Apost. 23 (Sargus vulgaris), <yapy6<?, f yapaxida. Aristotle (t«/>/'"9 

 (or V. 1. Tapyo^^), 548b 14 15 16, 570a 32 b 1 3, 543a 7 b 8, 591b 19 

 21, 1528a 24. 



The (Tdpyo^ spawns twice a year, in spring and in autumn ; it is 

 pregnant about thirty days in the month of December. The <7'i.p- 

 ya^, yzlm\>, y.i(fako<i and ff//'j|wv (or po^u)'/) are different kinds of /.s-i- 

 Tpsl'5, i. e. sub -classes of the y.s(Tzpsns\ The adpyo'i feeds after the 

 rpiy'/ai. The (rapylvoi (sargus-like fishes ? ) run in schools. Athen. 

 vii, 93, says that Aristotle says the spotted-tailed fishes are p.s/.dvo>jpo<i 

 and (Tdpyu^, and they are much lined and dark-lined. Num. in Hal. 

 says : " To laud, a (7apy<'>^:, most * line-jerking ' of fishes." Lat. sargus. 

 Plin. 9, 65 and 162. Ov. Hal. 105. I'y.dpo^- and T-dpo? are also 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



found in Aristotle. Vide sub S. rondelettl and S. vetula, Aposto- 

 lides 23. 



I/Mpoyaidapo is compounded of Tza/y/c and M. G. ydidaftu, donkey, 

 and metins scarus-don key. 



115. Diplodus sargus (Gmelin). 



Apost. 23 (Sargus rondelettl), (nzdpog. 



The specimen sold me as a-dpo^ was Diplodus vulgaris. I am 

 inclined to think that the names (japyoq, a7Apo<i and a-dpo^ are used 

 indiscriminately for any and all species of Diplodus. 



Aristotle, 508b 17, has czapu^, but a vario lectio is <T/.dpo's. He 

 says the a-dpo^ (or <Ty.dpo<s if we follow the other reading) has many 

 pyloric appendages. Athen. vii, 114, mentions the (7-dpo^ and cites 

 several passages from ancient writers in which the a-dpo'i is named. 

 One is from Epicharmus, in which fr-dpo'i can not be a mistake for 

 (rxdpo?, as botb names occur connected by and, viz., " We fished for 

 G-dpui and (T/.dpi)'.." Cf. also Athen. vii, 52. 



116. Diplodus vetula (Cut. & Yal.). 



Apost. 23 (Sargus vetula), f (T/.dpii'g cf. (Txapoydioapo, D. vulgaris. 



I/.dp()< is common in ancient writers. Arist. 15Bla 28, 621b 16, 

 1531a 10-17, 505a 28, 662a 7, 505a 14, 508b 11, 591a 14, 508b 12 

 17, 591b 22, 675a 3, 1528a 32, 621b 15. 



According to Aristotle the (r/.dpnq has two gills on each side, one 

 single and the other double, has its stomach shaped exactly like 

 an intestine, seems to ruminate just as the quadrupeds do, is a bony 

 fish, is the only fish whose teeth are not sharp and pointed, and is 

 consequently with good reason held to be the only one that rumi- 

 nates. 



Athen. vii, 113, under (y/.dpnq, quotes Aristotle as saying that it is 

 (not) sharp-toothed, and solitary and carnivorous; it has a small 

 mouth and tongue, not grown fast much, etc. A passage plainly 

 corrupt. To make any sense out of it at all we must assume that 

 the negative near the beginning of the quotation has dropped out, 

 and replace it. Otherwise it contradicts what Aristotle has repeat- 

 edly said elsewhere, and even contradicts the latter part of the 

 passage itself, where it is said that the ffy.dpo^ is fond of seaweed 

 and is baited with this. 



The statement that the (r/.dpo^ chews its cud is made repeatedly in 

 Aristotle and other ancient writers. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Nicander of Thyatira says there are two kinds of ffxaoot, one of 

 which is called o-'ia^, donkey-colored, the other aloMxi, brilliant. 



This suggests (Txapuyaidapu, ' scarus-donkey,' a name given to one 

 of my specimens of Diplodiis vulgaris. Moreover the names secured 

 by me under D. vulgaris indicate that at the present time the names 

 (Txapoq, (T-ri.po<i and (rdpyo^ are all used more or less indiscriminately 

 for all the species of Diplodus. 



Scarus is frequent in Latin writers. Plin. 9, 62. Ov. Hal. 9, 

 119. Hor. Sat. 2, 2, 22, etc. 



117. Diplodus annularis (L). 



Apostolides 23 (^Sargus anmdaris), f <soo6)MpJ-r^q at Corfu. -ToD- 

 S'/M (or <T»o6lt) = awl, spit (for roasting meat). J/cro? = thread. 

 The resemblance to a derivation from these Avords may be acciden- 

 tal. 



118. Charax puntazzo (Gmelin). II. Ouyw.'Mi (j). 

 Apost. 23 (^Charax puntazzo), ituyaiva, ouav^a. 



119. Pagellus erythrinus (L). II. Aw'ipr^c (J, * p-aAd^ (J. 



Apost. 23 {Pagellus erythrinus), Xof^pvn, Aui^pv^dpi. For name 

 hjHpvji see under Sparus pagriis. 



120. Pagellus acarne (Cuvier). H. ^^ Muu(Tijmu)m {^^ p-uup/jLOUpa (j^. 

 Apost. 24 {Fagellus breviceps). 



121. Pagellus mormyrus (L). H. Mooppoupa (J. 



Apost. 24 {Pagellus mormyrus), pouppobpa. A. G. poppopoq, 

 Aristotle 570b 20. 



Cf. Athen. vii, 94. Oppian, Hal. 1, 100, Latin mormyr. Ovid, 

 Hal. 110. Plin. 32, 152. Ovid speaks of PictcB mormyres, painted 

 mormyrs. 



There is frequent mention of the name, but apparently nothing 

 that would help in identifying it. 



122. Pagellus centrodontus (De La Roche). 

 Apost. 24. 



123. Sparus pagrus (L). II. 'I'ayypi Q, ^.w'ipr^c Q. 



Apost. 24 {Pagrus vulgaris and Pagrus orphus), f pzprZd'-'i, a 

 Turkish word equivalent to the Greek IpbUptvo'i. Apostolides gives 

 <payypi as common name for Dentex macropthalmus, and '/-u^'^ph'. for 

 Pagellus erythrinus. <Payypi may be M. G. equivalent for A. G. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



<faypi>q. Aristotle 598a 13, 601b 30, 1529a 41, 1531a 37. The 

 (fdYp'Xi alternates between the open sea and near the shore, has a 

 stone in its head, and consequently suffers much in winter, is car- 

 nivorous, solitary, has a triangular heart, and is at its prime in 

 spring. 



Athen. vii, 133. Speusippus, in the second book of his " Resem- 

 blances," says the cdyfux:, lr>u\h^nyu<i and i\-aro^ are similar. 



Latin Phager, phagrus, pager, pagrus ; hence, Spanish Pargo, 

 English Porgy, corrupted to Pogy. Plin. 32, 150, 9, 57, 32, 113. 

 Ovid. Hal. 107. See Bonitz's Index to Aristotle s. v. kpo^'J^fn-yix;, fin. 



Under one of my specimens I noted that the tips of scales and 

 ends of fins and tail were crimson. 



AofJ-pi'^t is undoubtedly M. G. form of ifioi/pr/ix;. Aot'fftt^i or /.y?!/- 

 pfyufic (Apostolides, bottom of p. 23) = t/.u&f>'!>i(r^ or D.'jfJ^p'.'jdp'.u-y, 

 diminutive of khji'^prMi^ = ipo'hnyn'i. The only possible question is 

 on the last equation. The interchange of the liquids I and r is, 

 however, a quite common phonetic phenomenon, though not, so 

 far as I know, occurring elsewhere in passing from A. G. to M. 

 G. Perhaps koiJ^po'^, gore, is from ip'M'^pO'; and M. G. ).'>f}pidZio = 

 cpud^pcd'^aj. 



The fish ipui'^pTvo'} is frequently mentioned in Aristotle. 



Aristotle, 538a 19-21, 567a 27, 598a 13, 741a 36,750b 30, 755b 

 20, 760a 8, 1511b 37, 1528b 1, 1529a 39. 



According to Aristotle the ^pu^'fpr^o? is a pelagic fish, and of both 

 it and the ydv.'r/ the male had never been seen. He says the most 

 of the fishes are male and female, but concerning the ipof}pvM^<; 

 and /«>>>; there is a doubt, for all which are caught have eggs 

 in them. Again he says of those called ipo^^pv^w. no male has 

 ever been seen, but only females, and these full of eggs. But we 

 have not yet trustworthy observation on this point. 



The name means red or reddish, and the color of the fish must 

 have justified the name. 



124. Sparus aurata (L). H. Tat-Tzoopa (J. 



Apost. 24 (Chrysopkrys aurata and Chr. crassirostris), "f xpuff- 

 o<fa, -zGi-Tatbpa, y /.ozda at Corfu, p.apioa at Missolonghi. Tg:-- 

 -oopa resembles somewhat the A. G. '{--aopfx;, horse-tail, which 

 Aristotle says has the most rapid growth of any fish. See Aris- 

 totle 543a 21 23, 599b 3. According to Cont. Lex. rffi-oopa is a 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



M. G. name for the refuse of grapes when the juice has beeu 

 pressed out. For //«//;''?'/ see Smaris. 



Apuffocfa is perhaps the A. G. yjjuffixfpo^. Aristotle 598a 10, 

 591b 9, 489b 26, 508b 20 21, 543b 3, 570a 20, 598a 21, 537a 28, 

 599b 33, 602a 11. The xpUo^r^o^ (literally "golden broAV ") has 

 two fins on its back and two on its belly, has few pyloric appen- 

 dages, one more and another fewer, is frequently speared in the 

 day-time while sleeping, spawns chiefly where rivers flow, spawns 

 in the summer, is littoral, is found in the lagoons of the sea, 

 hibernates and sufiers in winter. 



Alhen. iv, 13. Matro says: The yphaoifpo'i, which is the most 

 beautiful among all fishes. Athen. vii, 136. A large and favorite 

 food fish. 

 125. Spondyliosoma cantharus (Gmelin). H. ^ I/.rvMpi (J, 



Apost. 24 {Cantharus grisens and C. hramd), f dffxrh^apo'^, f ^ayi- 

 ouvo in Corfu. Ixa&dpt is the common name for Cantharus among 

 the men of the fish market. This is a clipped diminutive from 

 <r/.d<^hip()<i, n/.aUdp'.{ir/). Such diminutives are exceedingly common 

 in the colloquial language of modern Greece, being diminutives in 

 form only, and not in meaning. 



In modern Greek ny.dHapo^ and a/Av^^apof; means a beetle, just 

 as ancient y/v^'^apo'i (see Contopoulos Lex. s. v.). So also M. G. 

 <T/yjktp(><i, no doubt, equals ancient xdvf}apo<; as name of a fish. For 

 initial <r cf. (^-)y.d,'j.a'^dpi>g and (iT)/.i-apvov in Hom. where the fact 

 that a short vowel is not read long before these words shows that 

 they originally lacked the initial <t. Cf. also y.d-sT<i<; for frxd-sza?, 



xvt(/' and <TX'>{(^', 2wv£9 and M. G. frxoi^r^, xo-tcd and M. G. rrxn-ru), etc. 



Forms with and without initial <t before p. are common, as inxp('i<i 

 and (Tij.'.xpo'i, pJla'^ and (sp.ihi.:, etc. For omission of the nasal 

 before a mute cf. yoiKfdpt and yoifdpi. 



Arist. 598a 10, speaks of the y.d-^Hapo^ as a littoral fish of solid 

 fle.«h. According to Oppian it delights in rough rocks, Op. Hal. 

 iii, 340. 



126. Spondyliosoma orbiculare (, Cuv. & Val.). H. * Ixandp'. Q, * axdi^a- 

 P<><i (i). 



Apost, 24 (Cantharus orbicularis). -xa>'^dpc =r^ A. G. xdv^apo^. 

 See under Spondyliosoma cantharus. 



127. Scatharus graecus (Cuv. & Val). 11. Ixafh/.p'. (,). 

 Not noticed by Apostolides. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



128. Box boops (L.). H. Fo-a (J. 



Ai)().<t. 2o {Box hoops), ■\ ftw-a and yau-a. Bw^ or fioa'E, now 

 used as scientific name for this genus occurs in Aristotle 610b 4, 

 1528a 20. He says tliat they are found in schools. Those (?) 

 marked on the buck OMUToypa-To.) are called /Swc, but those mnrked 

 obliquely {(T/.D/jjiypa-ra) are called y.()Aia<i {(Ty.(>Ua<i). See Athen- 

 aeus vii, 27, where a number of references to the iiu>'= are given 

 from diff-rent authors. It was a favorite food fish. Atheuaeus 

 derives its name (it'ta'= from the word /J^tj, a cry or shout, and 

 defends this form of the name and derivation against Aristo- 

 phanes of Byzantium, who says: "We wrongly call the fish (iibxa 

 (yJtZic), and ougiit to call it [jinu-a (,5«w9''), since being a little fish 

 it has large eyes. It should be /Sow^'- = having the eyes of an 

 ox." [j(noil< is compounded of /S"D?, stem, j5«(F) and w^'', and 

 appears in Homer in the feminine form {jnw-i^ as a common epi- 

 thet of Hera. The word means ox-eyed, large-eyed. If this is 

 the fish now called [jw-u. the authority of Aristophanes of Byzan- 

 tium prevailed. At any rate, the /Jwr was a small fish with large 

 eyes, having peculiar markings on its back, running in shoals, and 

 admired by epicures. 



129. Boops salpa (L). H. Id/-a (J, yo-a Q. 



Apost. 23 (Box salpa), adl-a. Aristotle adl-r,. 1528a 4, 1531a 

 12 3, 534a 9, 621b 7, 598a 20, 570b 17,543a 8, 543b 8. 



The anl-r^ has an especially acute sense of hearing, is enticed 

 by malodorous bait such as dung, spawns in autumn in some 

 places, but in most places -in the begiuning of summer, feeds on 

 dung and seaweed, may be caught with pumpkin, spawns in the 

 lagoons of the sea, is not carnivorous ; it is much lined and red- 

 lineil, i. e. marked by many red (orange?) lines, has jagged teeth, 

 and is solitary; it is best in harvest time. Athen. vii, 118. The 

 aaX-yi is variegated in color. Whence Mnaseas, who compiled the 

 work entitled " Sports," was called Idl-r^ by his acquaintances 

 on a^jcouut of the brilliant variety of the collection. There is a 

 similar fish in the Red Sea called oTpuirmrzo^, having golden 

 bands extending across all its body as Philo reports in his " Met- 

 allicon." 



130. Oblada melanura (L). H. Mzkavoupt (j). 



Apost. 2> (O')l'i(li, melamira), titXavnop'., black-tail. Aristotle 

 591a 15, 1528a 24, 1511b 37, 1512a 3, /j-z/Ayuupo^. It feeds on sea- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



weed. The fj.s:Xd'^(>ooiig and aiLnyi'i^ are spotted on their tails (have 

 a spot ou their tails), and are ni ich lined and dark-lined. Athen. 

 vii, 9."5. Hicesiiis says it is like the aapYu^. 



Epi^iharniiis nieniions together (raiiyivat and !J.z/Av()Uf)ot. Latin 

 Melanurwi. Eniiius, Ovid , Plin., etc. Op. Hal. 1, 98. 



There are many references which mention the psXrhouint^^ bnt 

 they add nothing to our knowledge of it. The meaning of the 

 name so well describing the fish, and the fact that it is still in 

 common use ft)r this species establish its identity. 



131. Dentex dentex (L). 11. -y>«;Y'-''« (2)- 



Apost. 24 (^Dentex vu/garix), (Jtr^ayjiO^a. Aristotle (royaypi^ (gen. 

 (TU'^ayjii<)(>^, acc. awMiyfiida). 505a 15, 506b 16. The (TVMvyi)ii has 



four single gills on each side, and the gall bladder on the entrails. 

 Athen. vii, \2\, (TOMiypOh^. Epicharmus mentions these in "Mar- 

 riage of Hebe " and " Land and Sea." 



132. Dentex macrophthalmus (Bloch). 



Apost. 21 (D^/ilex iiiacropJitJialinus), (payyi)(. Cf. Sparus j^'^gi'us. 



133. Maena maena (L). 



Apost. 24: 25 (^Mcena vulgaris, O-ibechli and Jusciilum, the two 

 latter doubtful sj)ecies). 



134. Spicara smaris (L). 11. Mapida (j), * p.rv.'MvAa (J, * ^v^ooXa (?) 



(J *,.,/;...« (0. 



Apost. 25 (Smaris vulgaris and Chrysalis^ f ap.api^, f p.api<: In ^I. 

 G. «J = s, so that fiaOyouXa (^p-hoOXfi), '^iviiuXa and plAw^a i^iiihiuva) 

 are evidently all modifications of the same name. Mapida is the 

 regular M. G. equivalent tor A. G. //.«/>£? or (Tp.api<;. MaivauXa 

 suggests p.aivi^, found in Aristotle as name of a fish. 610b 4, 

 607b 10-21, 570b 15-80, 569b 28, 1529a 7, 607b 10. The p.ain<s 

 spawns after the winter solstice and is the most prolific of fir-hes. 

 It is good when pregnant. The form of the female is rounder, 

 that of the male longer and Hatter. When the female is begin- 

 ning to be pregnant the male is black and variegated in color. 

 At this time they are called rpdym (he-goats) by some. They 

 run in schools, -impii, Aristotle 607b 22. The (jpapi^ changes 

 its color in like njanner with the //a.'vtV, being lighter in winter 

 and darker in summer. This is most evident around the fins 

 and trills. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Op. Hal. 1, 109. Along the sedgy shore beneath the green 



plants feed imt'^iosQ, zpaytii, diytpvMU, GiJ.apiot<i and /j/.j^x/c, etc. 



Epichar., frag. 35 ; Athen., vii, 92 and 137. 



Speusippus says that tlie /5'>wr and (Tjiapi^ are like the pmvi^. 



135. Spicara alcedo (Risso). H. * Zipfntv/la. 

 Apost. 25 {Smaris alcedo). 



136. Centracanthus cirrus (Rafinesque). 

 Apost. 25 {Smaris maxirii). 



Family PERCID^. 



137. Perca fluviatilis (L). 



Apost. 17 {Perca fluviatilis), f -iaTpmfn.. 



Family MULLID^. 



138. Mullus surmuletus (L). H. M-app-ob'^i (Barbouni) (J. 

 Apost. 15 (Mullus siirmtilletus) f Tpty/.£<^, p-apSoin'., -zzpui^'apo, 



"I" zdiyapoh.a. 



Apostolides identifies this with the ancient Tpiylrj. Aristotle 

 1531a 26, 598a 10-21, 570b 22, 610b 5, 1531a 32, 621b 7, 1531a 

 32-33, 591a 12, 508b 17, 59Ib 19,557a 26,1531a 34, 621b 21, 

 1511b 39, 1512a 3, 570b 22-25, 543a o, 1531a 24 33. 



According to Apostolides the names rpiy/.B's and p-apij-anyi are 

 common to all species of the Mullus. M-app-awi is an Italian 

 name. The same fish is common in both Italian and Greek mar- 

 kets under this same name. It is perhaps the same as the fish 

 which the Romans called Barbus. Aus. Morell., 94, 134, cf. Cic. 

 Par. 5, 2, 38, Barhatulus mullus, and id. Att. 2, 1, 7, Barbati mulli, 

 bearded mullets. 



According to Aristotle the Tpiykrj (or zpiyXa) has many pyloric 

 appendages, is the only fish that breeds three times a year, is 

 especially infested with fish lice, feeds on sea-weed, shell-fish and 

 mud ; it lives near the shore, is found in the lagoons, runs in 

 schools and eats flesh, but is not exclusively carnivorous. 



Athen. vii, 125. The zpiylri is sharp-toothed, gregarious, all 

 spotted (?), and moreover carnivorous. AVhen it has produced 

 young (spawned) three times it is barren, for it gets little worms 

 in its uterus which devour the eggs (or young yi>-^'>'i). Speusip- 

 pus says the /jr/./.'j':, , yth.omv and 'piy^i are similar. They are called 

 red-colored and yellow-colored. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Athenaeus gives many other references to the TpiyXfj, but appar- 

 ently they throw no light upon the identification of the fish. 



139. Mullus barbatus (L). 



Apost. 15 (Mullus barbatus), f zc^aAa^J^c at Chalcis. 



140. Mullus fuscatus (Rafinesque). 



Apost. 15. 



Family SCIJENID^. 



141. Dmbrina cirrosa (L). 



Apost. 18 (Uinbrina cirrosa), (rxto^, Cf. Corvina nigra = Sciaena 

 umbra. 



Aristotle has (T/.iavja 601b 30. He says : " Those fish Avhich 

 have a stone in the head, as yp<'>!J-t^, h'if>paz, axiaiva and (fdypix} 

 sufier most in the winter. Athen. vii, 121, shows that the a/.iavm 

 was also called n/.taHiq by Epicliarmus and <j/.iacii.>)^ by Nunienius. 



Latin Sciaena and Sciadeus for the female and nuile respect- 

 ively. Plin. 32, 151. ^.i'.o^^ and Ty.iavjn. both seem to be from 

 (Txui, shadow ; Latin, Umbra. 



142. Sciaena aquila (Lac). 



Apost. 18 {Scicena aquila), pohr/M-^zt, -\ y.pwj'.u^ at Chalcis. 



143. Sciaena umbra (L). II. Muhr/.n-'. (J, * (Tapo.ndvu (,), (j/.u'i^ (J. 

 Apost. 18, 19 (Corvina nigra), '\ (Txi(j<i y.aXiay.ouda. According to 



Apostolides pokn/.o-i is common name for Scicena aquila. For (txcu(; 

 see Umbrina cirrosa, Apost. 18. 



Family LABRID^. 



144. Labrus bergylta (Ascaniui?). 



Apost. 25 (Labrus bergylta), yz)j>')i)t(7£<i, yt'OjK;, ysdou, f ^ux6</'apo 

 and -zTpi'/c^-apo M. G. names for the Labrus. (Poyj'nj'apo, r= ^uxog- 

 fish, may be referred to A. G. (fjxrj^ and <s')x{'^. The names are 

 manifestly from (fi>y.(>?, sea-weed. Aristotle 567b 20 19, 591b 16, 

 607b 20, 1528a 10, 607b 18, 591b 13. 



The small ^uxids<s spawn twice a year, the male (^nxr^^) differs 

 from the female ((pnxt^) by being darker and having larger scales. 

 They feed upon the sea-weed (foxn^), eat no flesh except that of the 

 xapi>J-<s (shrimps), change their color, being variegated in the 

 spring but white during the rest of the year, and are the only 

 sea-fishes which make a nest and lay their eggs in the nest. It 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1892. 



is a small fish, one of the rock-fish {-zrpahn ; observe M, G. name 

 7:sT/jo(^'apt>'), crowned with spines, belongs to the -srpahJt which are 

 called sott-fleshed, such as the /.('xrautfui^ xiy'/.at, -ip/.a'., -/.wSun, etc. 

 For yjOMn, etc., see Crenilabrus pavo. 



145. Labrus livens (L.) H. Adp-pi^a (J. 

 Apost. 25 (Labrus merula). 



146. Labrus viridis (L). H. Ih-po'l'api) (j), * nuuKuop-apou^ (j). 

 Apost. 25 {Labrus viridis, etc.). According to Apostolides all 



species of the genus Labrus are called by the names ysXaodcffs?, 



yjiXii'i, yj'.hiD, (fu/j'itl'apu and ~z.rp6il'ap<i. 



147. Labrus bimaculatus (L.) 

 Apost. 25 (Labrus mixtus, etc.). 



148. Symphodus ocellaris (L). H. */la^w/)as" d), '■^ Uifiyya (j), sphinx. 

 Apost. 25 (Crenilabrus roissali). 



o 



149. Symphodus ocellatus (Forskal). 

 Apost. 25 (Crenilabrus ocellatus). 



150. Symphodus mediterraneus (L). II. ^ Iz?.rj>ri (J. 



Apost. 26 (Cre)illabrus mediterraneus). I can not find (rsXrj-^yj, 

 moon, given as name of a fish in any book, ancient or modern. 

 The nearest approach is (jou/S^-^a, given by Cont. Lex. as common 

 name of the bivalve Ensis siltqua, called razor-fi.<h and spout-fish 

 in English according to the Cent. Dictionary. The word ffouAy/a 

 also means spout-fish, being from ancient irw/.rjv, a spout or gutter. 



This name is used by the ancients as name of a bivalve, and 

 this is no doubt the same as is now called aookym. See Aristotle 

 683b 17, 528a 17 22, 548a 5, etc. 



151. Symphodus tinea (L). II. ^^ Xeu.ouaa (^, X^doo Q. 



Apost. 26 (Crenilabrus pavo), '\ )^ri~ai'^a,-\ )M-t-Mx p.aupr^ (black) 

 and ptydXri at Chalcis. 



Xi'ihii means lip, Latin labrum, "whence the name Labrus. 

 Apostolides gives /el/"? and yj.'.h>o as common name of Ijabrus in 

 all species. Xsihilxra is clearly the same as yjO.nu. My three spec- 

 imens were obtained on different occasions and probably from 

 diflTerent parties, making it evident that yei'/Mu is used for Symphodus 

 as well as for Labrus. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



152. Symphodus melops (L). 

 Apost. 2.5 {Cre)ukibrus melops). 



153. Symphodus cinereus (Bonnaterre). 

 Apost. 25 (Crenilabrus massa). 



154. Symphodus melanocercus (Risso). 

 Apost. 25 (Cre)iilabrus cceruleus). 



o 



155. Symphodus scina (Fors-kal). 

 Apost. 26 (Coricus rosti'atus). 



156. Ctenolabrus suillus (L). H. * /i«7/iao«yo? (j). 

 Apost. 26 (Ctenolabrus rupestris). 



157. Julis julis (L). II. * Twyrdvo (J. 



Apost. 26 (Julis vvlgarls and J. glofrcdl),f yn^^a^. According to 

 Apostolides this is the ancient I'ou/.n^. Aristotle 610b 6 gives M/yXt'? 

 (Latin Julis) as name of a fish found in schools; l'('u?.<i^ =: down, 

 hair, beard ; also a centipede. Cf. Athen. vii, 70 and 20. 



158. Thalassoma pavo (L). 



Apost. 26 (Julis pavo), f yal'-fv^Dupc, f <f'.d;j.iwAa at Patras. and 

 ■f ypaSa'M/if at Trikeri. raird'/t is a Turkish wtjrd meaning a silken 

 cord, a string (Cont. Lex.). Fuiza^oupi would accordingly mean 

 string-tail. 



159. Xyrichthys novacula (L). 



Apost. 27 (Xyrichthys novacula), f xarspydpo^ and f y-i'^c, accord- 

 ing to locality. The former means rogue, one condemned to work 

 in the galleys (xdzzpya). Krv/t is M. G. for A. G. ztcjV (gen. -/-v^o'i), 

 a comb. /iVsiV in A. G. was used as name of a bivalve, a cockle 

 or scallop, often mentioned in Aristotle. According to Cont. Lex. 

 the modern /-iv'. is used in same way, the sea comb. 



Family POMACENTRIDJE. 



160. Chromis chromis (L). 11. ^ I/.a^hipc (j). 



Apost. 27 (C7t?-o?/i/.s castanea), f y.u/y/ypr/i and y-dhiypiraa. Kah't- 

 YpTjU means a nun. hahiypiTaa would seem to be another form for 

 the same, altliough the lexicon (Cont. Lex.) gives it as meaning 

 tomtit, l/.ahdpi is probably a mistake here, the man who sold it 

 me supposing it to be Cantharus. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Family TRACHINIDJE, 



161. Trachinus draco (L). H. Apd/.av>a Q. 



Apost. 13 (TracAwMts draco). According to Apostolides dpdxavja 

 is common name for all species of the genus Traehinus. In A. G. 

 8pd/.avja is feminine of opdawy, a serpent or dragon. The kindred 

 word dpay-fiiviQ, also a feminine of dpdy.u)'/, occurs as name of a fish 

 in a fragment of the comic poet Ephippus, who flourished in the 

 early part of the Fourth century, B. C. Also in a fragment of 

 Mnesimachus. Aristotle 598a 11 uses dpd/.ui'^ as name of a fish 

 which lives near the shore (i. e. a littoral fish). A fragment of 

 Epicharmus also contains dpdxcov as name of a fish. Vide Athen. 

 vii, 28. 



162. Traehinus vipera (Cuv. &. Val). 

 Apost. 13. 



163. Traehinus araneus (Cuv. &, Yal). 

 Apost. 13. 



164. Traehinus radiatus (Cuv. & Val). 

 Apost. 13. 



Family URANOSCOPIDJE. 



165. Uranoscopus scaber (L). H. AiyM)^ (J. 



Apost. 13 ( Uranoscopus scaber), XiyMx;, AouTfro'i and "f /.obxa^. Iden- 

 tified in Apostolides with the y.olhd).>u:jj>^ of Aristotle. For z«//i<u- 

 vupM^ see Ari.'^totle 598a 11, 5()6b 10, 1529b 9. 



According to Aristotle the /.r/lhwyupM^ it a littoral fish with the 

 gall on the liver, and has the largest gall-bladder of any fish in pro- 

 portion to the size of the fish. 



Aelian, N. A. 134, says: "Concerning it (the fish called y.aXlid)- 

 •^up.o<i) Aristotle says that it has a large gall-bladder attached to the 

 right lobe of the liver, and that it carries its liver in its left side." 



According to Athenaeus, vii, 16 and 17, there seems to have been 

 considerable confusion among the names dvi'^cru^^ y.aAliyHu<i, xakXimw- 

 //.o9 and i'/.o^'-." Pliny says (32, 146): Callionymus or Uranoscopus. 

 (32, 69). The same fish (Callionymus) is also called Uranoscopus 

 (sky-gazer), from the eye which it has in its head. Athen. viii, 52. 

 Oupa>(){Txo-og and the one called uy^a?, or also y.akl'.(I).>u!J.o^, are heavy 

 as food. Cf. A. G. /mxxo':, sub. yzXi8o'M')4>apo {Daetylopterus voli- 

 tans). 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Family CEPHALACANTHID^. 



166. Cephalacanthus volitans (L). II. Azhdo'M'nl'api) (j), swallow-fish. 

 Apostolides 15 {Dnefi/lopterns volitans), yzXii^ovoi^'apn. Aposto- 



lides identifies tliis with tlie yMy.y.u'= of Aristotle. But may it not 

 be the sea )fzh(^w.> spoken of by Aristotle 535b 27 ? He says : " The 

 xrivii when they rush along, resting upon the water (which people 

 call flying), make a whizzing sound, and the sea swallows {al OoMt:- 

 rtat yjXi<io\'z>;') do the same, for these fly in the air not touching the 

 water." 



Cuvier identifies this sea swallow with Dact. volitans. Compare, 

 however, Trigla hirando, still called /r/cW^a, the swallow. 



Of the xox/.u^, cuckoo, Aristotle (oDSa 15 and 535b 20) says : " It 

 makes a sound like the cuckoo, whence it gets it name." The xdx- 

 xoyz'i are both pelagic and littoral (alternately). Vide Plin. Hir- 

 undo, 9, 82 and 32, 149. Athen. vii, 84. 



There is nothing in any reference that lean find to show that the 

 xoxxu^ wa-i a Jlijiiig fi<h. According to Apostolides 13 Uranoncopus 

 scaber is called xo^rxo?, M. G. for cuckoo. May not this be xoxxu^^ 



Family TRIGLIDJE. 



167. Peristedion cataphractum (L). II. ^ A'aparoi^'apo (,), horn-fish. 

 Apost. 16 (^Pefiitethio)i cataphractum), xa-wvrj. 



Two specimens sold me under the name xa-u>/rj in the market at 

 Athens turned out to be Tri(jla lineata and Trigla hjra. 



168. Trigla lineata (Omelin). II. ho.-u)\>rf (,). 

 Apost. 16 {Trigla lineata). 



169. Trigla cuculus (L). 

 Apost. 16 {Trigla pint). 



170. Trigla milvus (Lacejiede). 

 Apost. 16 (Trigla cuculus). 



171. Trigla gurnardus (L). 

 Apost. 16. 



172. Trigla lyra (L). II. Jia-u>-^rj (,). 

 Apost. 16 (Trigla lyra). 



173. Trigla Mrundo (P.loch). II. .\'s).cS('r^a (j). 

 Apost. 16 (Trigla corax). 



AUt/Wi/a is M. G. for A. G. ytX>.^mj, swallow. Aristotle 535b 

 27. The sea swallows (<il Oa'/.dr-tai /t/.tS/r^z^) fly in the air, not 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



touching the sea, for they have their fins broad and long. See 

 Cephalaeanthus volltans, called /jkido'^od'apo. Cf. also Myliohatis 

 hoviiia, Apostolides 9. 



174. Lepidotrigla cavillone (Lacupede). 

 Apost. 16 {Trlgla cavillone). 



Family SCORPJENID^. 



175. Scorpaena scrofa (L.) 11. I/.ofi-uj'i (^). 



Apost. 16 (Scorpcena scrofa), f (r/.op-i\>a. According to Aposto- 

 lides (jy-ofi-u't^ is common name of S. parens. Ixa/i-taQ = scorpion. 

 As name of a fish Ari^^totle, 1531a 20, 508b 17, 593a 7, 598a 14. 

 It has many pyloric appendages, breeds (spawns) twice a year, alter- 

 nates between the open sea and the shallow water along the shore ; 

 the (Txop-cdzg breed in the open sea (rd -i?.ayof). 



Athen. vii, 115. IS^um. "Red (r/.<)p-{uc." Hicesius says: "Of 

 the (Ty.(if>-i(n one kind is pelagic the other littoral ; the former is a 

 fiery red, the latter blackish. Epicharnius calls theTxanTzto? -ouikog, 

 variegated. It is solitary and eats seaweed. Aristotle mentions 

 ffxop-ioc and (ixop-idzq in different places. It is not clear whether 

 he means the same fish by these two names. That we have fre- 

 quently eaten both axup-aiya and axop-w'. and that the flavors and 

 colors are different, no one is ignorant. Archestratu.*, in his 

 " Golden "Words," says : " Buy the small axufj-ioQ, but beware of a 

 big one." Athen. viii, 52. The tuwny, pelagic (Txup-idt are more 

 nutritious than the large ones of the shoal water near shore. 



176. Scorpaena porcus (L). 



Apost. 16 (Scorpcena porcus), frxupTZiu^i and t/'ifrT^o. 



Family OALLIONYMID^. 



177. Callionymus festivus (L). H. 

 Not noticed by Apostolides. 



Family GOBIID^. 



178. Gobius niger (L). 

 Ap().<t. 15. 



179. Gobius jozo (L). H. hwrlu'i^ (3). 



Apost. 14 {Gobius jozo), xwo toe, -\-YojSt'k\ According to Aposto- 

 lides zryo.">9 and yaj(1c(')f are common names for all species of the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



genus Gobhis. Aristotle xwScK-, 610b 4, 598a 11 16, 508b 16, 569b 

 23, D21b 13 19, 567b 11, 591b 13, 601b 22, 835b 14. The xoj6c<k 

 has many pyloric appendages above the stomach, spawns near the 

 land on the rocks, the bunches of eggs are flat and crumbling ; it 

 feeds on mud, sea-weed, sea-moss, etc. ; lives near the land, gets fat 

 in the rivers, and is found in schools. The white /.wCufi, found in 

 the Euripus of Lesbos, never leaves that lagoon for the open sea 

 as the other fishes found there do. Latin Gobio and Cobio, Plin. 

 Gobius, Ovid., Hal. 12, 8. Martial 13, 88. 



180. Gobius guttatus (Cuv. & Val). 

 Apost. 14. 



181. Gobius auratus (Risso). 

 Apost. 14. 



182. Gobius paganellus (L). 

 Apost. 14. 



183. Gobius cruentatus (Gmelin). 

 Apost. 14. 



184. Gobius capito (Cuv. & Val). 

 Apost. 14. 



185. Gobius minutus (L). 



Apost. 14 (Gobius quadrlmacidatus). 



Family BLENNIID^. 



186. Blennius pavo (Risso). H. ''^ II u- ay a /.(>■$ (J, an Italian word mean- 

 ing parrot. 



Apost. IB (Blennius pavo), "l ffu/ud/jsc. 



187. Blennius sanguinolentus (Pallas). 



Apost. 13. 



188. Blennias gattorugine (Bloch). 



Apost. 13 (Ble)i)iius gattorugine'), ]' rra/.tdpa, slobbering. 



189. Blennius ocellaris (L). 

 Apost. 14. 



190. Blennius pholis (L). 

 Apost. 14. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



191. Blennius trigloides (Cuv. & Val). 

 Apost. 14. 



192. Blennius galerita (L). 



Apost. 14 (Blennius montagnei). 



193. Cristiceps argentatus (Risso). H. Foj-a (J. 

 Apost, 14 (Clinus argentatus). For yw-a see Box. 



194. Tripterygiou tripteronotus (Risso). 

 Apost. 14 (Tripterygiou nasus). 



Family OPHIDIID^. 



195. Ophidion vasalli (Risso). H. ^ Fudpt or ^ yiXdpi (J. 



Apost. 28 {Ophidium vassali). XOAp'. may be a diminutive from 

 /el/Mg, lip. 



196. Ophidion barbatum (L). 



Apost. 28. 



Family GADID^. 



197. Gadus callarias (L). 



Apo>t. 28 ( Gachis morrhia, the young of G. callarias). f Mnu- 

 fxioMi. at Chalcis. Rare, acjordiug to Apostolides, but the identifi- 

 cation must be doubtful. 



198. Phycis phycis i L:. H. ^ Unyzi/.'. (j). 



Not seen by Apostolides. Un'^zUt, M. G. for mouse. Cf. Aris- 

 totle, 6 -ovTud^ IJ.O?, 600b 13, 632b 9. 



199. PoUachius poutassou (Risso). II. * Td'.-'/A/.'. (j). 

 Apost. 29 {Merlangus poutassou), jyaiS(iuf>('i(J'ap(r^. 



The name yaiduoiwil-aixr^ is modern, meaning donkey-fish. Fat- 

 (joupfx? = yddapixi = ass, donkey. The ancients called a certain 

 fish 01/09. ass. Dorio, in Athenaeus vii, 99, says some persons cull 

 the o'M)<i (i. e. the fish ovc) ydda?. Epicharmus in his Marriage of 

 Hebe says: " Wide-gaping /'/'waj and monstrous-bellied o-^ot," See 

 Aristotle 599b 33, 601a 1, 620b 29, frag. 307, 1530a, According 

 to Aristotle the o'yo? has a mouth opening wile (lit, breaking back), 

 like the yauui. It leads a solitary life, is the only fish whirh has 

 its heart in its belly, has stones in its brain like mill-stones in form, 

 and, is the only fish which lies torpid in the warmest days under the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



reign of the dog-star, Siriiis, the other fishes going into this torpid 

 state in the wintriest days. The ovo?, fid-o^, 4>7,rra and pi-yrj bury 

 themselves in the sand and after they make themselves invisible 

 they wave the things in their mouths which fishermen call little 

 rods or little wands {paSoiu). 



200. Merluccius merluccius (L). II. M-a/.a/.dpo (j). 



Apost. 29 (Merhicius vulc/aris), ii.-ay.aXidpo<;. Cont. Lex. p-axahbx;. 

 Turkish word meaning stock-fish. iV-aza/ry? (Turk) = grocer. Also 

 written [la/jjldoi; and [iiu.dlr^i;. 



201. Mora moro (Risso). 



Apost. 29 {Mora inedlterranea). 



202. Molva elongata (Otto). 

 Apost. 29 {Lota elongata). 



Family PLEURONECTID^. 



203. Pleuronectes flesus (L). 

 Apost. 29 {Flesus passer). 



204. Fsetta maxima (L). 



Apost. 30 {Rhombus mqximxis), "f xuA/.d^^t. 



205. Bothus rhombus (L). 

 Apost. 30 {Rhombus IcBvis). 



206. Platophrys podas (De la Roche). H. 



Apost. 30 {Pleuronectes candidissimus and Bothus rhomhoides). 



207. Eucitharus linguatula (L). II. F'/Maaa Q. 



Not noticed by Apostolides. For ykihaaa see under Solea solea. 



208. Solea theophila (Risso). 

 Apost. 29 {Solea lascaris). 



209. Monochirus variegatus (Donovan). 

 Apost. 30 {Microchirus variegatus). 



210. Monochirus hispidus (Rafinesque). II. * Ka<l'(opa. 

 Not recorded by Apostolides. 



211. Monochirus ocellatus L. 

 Apost. 29 {Solea oculata). 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



212. Solea solea (L). H. TlCuaaa. (J. 



Apost. 29 {Sole(x vulgaris), yhTxTfra, tongue, f Aoj/j.urioa at Nau- 

 plia and Missolonghi. I found yMofTfra a common name for any 

 kind of sole. Ancient writers used iiohy/McrrrnQ, ox-tongue, as name 

 of a kind of fish. The name is quoted by Athenaeus from various 

 writers. Athen. iv, 13, Matro. "A iiD'jykujtTtrd^ which dwelt in the 

 foaming brine (sea)" Vii, 80. " The roughish [ridoy'KwoGoq!'' The 

 y.oy(')ykw(7<j(iQ (dog-tongue) differs from the {juny'/Maatx;. The Attics 

 call it 4<7"a. Vii, 139. Speusippus says that the ^''77'Z""", /?"'^/''^-'«<''<''«9 

 and TU'.'Aa are similar. Booy/MacidQ, (^'y—a and //D? are given at the 

 end of a list of fishes, the list being quoted from Aristotle. Dorio 

 names [-ioiryKuxjatxi and 4'^"a as belonging to the flat fishes. The 

 Romans call the 4'^—a fjutioo^, which is also a Greek name. Oppian 

 Hal., i, 99. 



It is plain from the above that the {iwy'uonrmi and C'-J-ra were 

 much alike, if not the same. 



Family BALISTIDJE. 



213. Balistes carolinensis (Gmelin). 



Apost. 12 {Balides capriscus), j fj.<»6yinf)oi-^ lone-pig. 



Family MOLID^. 



214. Mola mola (L). 



Apost. 11 {Orthagorisciis mola). 



215. Ostracion trigonus (L). 

 Apost. 12. 



A West Indian species, said by Apostolides to have been taken 

 at Skiathos, which is probably an error. 



Family LOPHIID^. 



216. Lophius piscatorius (L). 11. '^ Ui<7/.o.y<)i)ir'^a or * -£<Tzav7;0£'r^a (j). 

 Apost. 14 (Lophius piscaiorius). Probably of Italian origin, 



meaning Msher. f A'/Affxa at Chalcis, "f tT/J.s'j-ou and "^ i3arpa,/6<Jiaf>o 

 at Patras. The fi''-f>a-/(iQ 6 a/.cc69 (the fisher frog) of Aristotle. See 

 Aristotle 50oa 6 b 4, 506b 16, 564b 18, 565b 29, 570b 30, 620b 11 

 ff, 695b 14, 696a 27, 749a 23, 75ia 23 fi; 755a 9, 835b 13, 1527b 

 41-43, 540b 18. 



A ri.-totle says with regard to the [i<i-()o.yj)i;\ "Inasmuch as the 

 flat front part is not fleshy, nature has compensated for this by 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



adding to the rear and the tail as much fleshy substance as has 

 been sul)tracted in front." The iidTfitr/o^ is called the angler. He 

 fishes with the hair-like filaments hung before his eyes. On the 

 end of each filament is a little knob just as if it had been placed 

 there for a bait. He makes a disturbance in sandy or niudily 

 places, hides himself and raises these filaments. When the little 

 fishes strike at them he leads them down with the filaments until he 

 brings them to his mouth. The liazpayoq is one of the az'/Ayri. AH 

 the ffs'/.d/ji are viviparous or ovoviviparous except the ^idTpaytx;. 

 The other flat (TsXdyjj have their gills uncovered and underneath 

 them, but the i3d-payo^ has its gills on the side and covered with 

 skinny opercula, not with horny opercula like the fish which are 

 not at)Myd)!iri. Some fishes have the gall bladder upon the liver, 

 others have it upon the intestine, more or less remote from the liver 

 and attached to it by a duct. Such are l^dzpayof^, k'?2o</', <Tuvayp{^, 

 tT'i.npavyu and S'.cia^. (Proved true of Lophius piscatorius by a 

 dissection by Dr. C. H. Gilbert.) The (id-payixi is the only one of 

 the azldyr^ which is oviparous. This is on .account of the nature 

 of its body. For it has a head many times as large as the rest of 

 its body, and spiny and very rough. For this same reason it does 

 not afterwards admit its young into itself. The size and roughness 

 of the head prevents them both from coming out (i. e. being born 

 alive) and from going in (being taken into the mouth of the par- 

 ent). The [-idrpayoq is most prolific of the az)Ayr^, but they are 

 scarce because the eggs are easily destroyed, for it. lays them in a 

 bunch near the shore. 




280 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



INDEX OF GREEK TERMS. 



ay^ix; . . 

 dyfi'.i'iil'arx 

 dszoq . 

 d^tpha . 

 dd^epivr^ . 



df^SpV^OQ . 



dxa-y'JiU'i yoli 

 dXoydxi . 

 dXwTZt/.ia'i 

 dA(u-ri'c . 

 d;iia . 

 dvi^iag 

 d(rxd>^ap<i< 

 d(j~spia<; . 

 abXiii . 

 abEi8tq . 

 dtpaps'x; . 

 Bayiouyii 

 ^azi . . 

 jiariuv 

 fia-i^ . . 

 jidrii^ 

 jidzpayni 



fiazpayotl'apt 



^sXtivioa 

 li(iny/.ajiTi7o'! 



78 



249 



252 

 252 



249 



261 



272 



234 



239 



253 



268 



. . 252 



. . 235 



. . 249 



. . 235 



235, 238 



. . 257 



. . 272 



. . 265 



. . 235 



233, 238 



255, 257 



255 



265 



237 



237 



238 



235-239, 277 



279, 231, 239, 



. 240, 241 



... 278 



... 251 



251 , 253, 257 



... 249 



... 249 



... 249 



. 251, 268 



. 266, 268 



... 278 



... 239 



ftdw(J' 266 



fip'Ja> 241 



/3<y| 266 



fiw-a 266 



rddapiiQ 276 



yddtKi 276 



ydidi>up()<^ 276 



ya'idoupoij'apu 276 



yaiza'/oupi 271 



r«//7 234 



ya'/.r/i^ 234 



ya).snti^< . . 234, 235, 238 



yaho^- . . . 233, 234, 235, 



. . . 238, 239, 276 



yaXca 234 



yahwdr,,- . . 234, 235, 237, 



238, 239 



yd(Tzpo<; 252 



ydz()<i 233 



yavpd'i 244 



yiXdpi 276 



y/.iifdpi 257 



y)M6izaa 244 



yXdvi^ . . . 241, 242, 259 



yXayo<s 241 



y/Mv/.o'i 247 



y/.ou-ia? 256 



y/.ujffffa 277, 278 



yo§6Xc 250 



yoyypo<i . . . 246, 247, 248 



yo;x(fdp'. 257, 265 



ynij.ffdpiio .... 257, 258 



yo!j.(po<i 257, 258 



yo-a 266 



youXia'^o< 241 



you-a 266 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



281 



youpou > (I <^'o.p I) 



ynuwdpi . 



yowdni 



yixfiK; 



ypa6wjdq 



yukoq . 



y<o6io<s 



yu)~a , 



Jpd/.utva 



dpay.ai>i<i 



dpdxcDv 



dpoyya 



^ EyytXttrp(')(fo'. 



iy/ilw? . 



244 



sV-o^'' . . . 

 ipcTip-ot . 

 ipui^plvog 

 ZaX<»'j~apdo<; 

 l^apydva , 

 ZippooXXa 

 Z,<'jyav>a . 



SaXdmai yzXi^w 

 daXdrzKH ofEi'i 

 d6pn<s 

 Opi(T<ra 



dowa . 



Oir>vo<s 

 ^iXiaxa^ 



?Xto<l . 



iouX'!^ 



t(iuXn<^ 



l—~<r/.d;).—urj 



l~~6/.ap~o^ 



InitiivpiK; 



KaSmpa<i 



xaX/.d.'i 



. . 236 



257, 258 



258, 265 

 . 256 

 . 271 

 . 271 

 . 274 

 . 276 

 . 272 

 . 272 



272 



. 246 



. 245 



245, 246, 247, 



. . 248 



272, 279 



242, 243 



247, 260, 263, 264 



. 246 



. 249 



. 268 



. 234 



. 264 



. 273 



. 247 



. 245 



242, 243 



. 254 



. 257 



254, 255, 256, 257 



254, 255, 256, 257 



. . 254 



. . 254 



. . 271 



. . 271 



. . 250 



249, 250 



. . 264 



. . 270 



236. 277 



■/.aXXiyf^uq 

 y.(i.XXiu)'/up.<)<; 

 y.aXi'iypr^a 

 y.aXirypizaa 

 y.dp.7:yj 

 y-diiTLw; 

 xd>i'/^apo<^ 

 y.a)/7Jxc 

 xa-W'yy] . 

 xdpaoDt^ . 

 xapig . . 

 xapyapia'i 

 y.dpyapiii; 

 ! xarspyd.p()^ 

 xaroupXida 

 y.arpaSd'>o<i 

 y.arpoXidpa 



xdrra 



I 



I xn.Zd'i 



xd.TTII'i 



; xad'o'woXa 



\ ■ 



xai^'Oipa . 



y.vjTpbr^'i 



xi--a . 



j xepa~6(/'ap(i 



I yJpxo^- . 



I xiffTpa 



! 



' xeffrps'j^ . 



x£<pa./A(Jz^ 

 , xicaXi)<i . 

 xLyXri . . 

 xoiXia 

 xoxdXc 

 xo/.dXiov . 

 xi>y.xi\>o<i . 

 XDXxr^oiJ'apd 



XOXX'J^ 



xi)Xia<i 

 xoXk'k; 



. . 272 

 . 272 

 . 271 

 261, 271 

 . 250 

 . 250 

 . 265 

 . 234 

 . 273 

 . 246 

 . 269 

 233, 234 

 . 234 

 . 271 

 . 250 

 . 271 

 . 250 

 . 233 

 . 233 

 . 233 

 . 260 

 . 277 

 . 235 

 . 242 

 . 273 

 . 237 

 253, 257 

 252.258,261,237, 

 246, 247, 251 

 . 252, 269 

 250,251,252, 261 

 241, 259, 260 

 245, 260 

 . . 257 

 . . 257 

 . . 242 

 . . 242 

 247, 268, 272, 273 

 . . 243, 254, 266 

 254 



19 




282 



xopd'j'/.ri . 

 xopd'jh)<s . 



XOTTUCXI? 



xoTffa 



xouxd'i 

 y.(Hj/.aY(ii>X'>? 

 xpa/:<'>i . 

 y.po(7Ta?.7,oa 

 y.zti^ . 

 y-h>. . . 



y.o'M'tyKmsaoi 

 y.O~pV^o<l . 



xbuiv . 



XwSlO'i 



xu)61ti'5 . 

 AaSpdxi . 

 Xd6pa~ . 

 XaytdSzq . 



/Aii.ia 

 kap.-ooya. 



)A<l.~pVMl 



XetoSazo? 



keli>? . 



Xeoxmi><i 



ki'ffa . 

 kr/vog 

 kdurZoi 

 kourao'i 



kou(pdpi 

 kuti^pidXoj 



?Mi^^pt'''dpi 

 kui^phi . 

 kui^pov 

 Ma'io-txt'i 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



. . 256 



. . 257 

 . 241 

 . 260 

 . . 264 

 . . 272 

 . . 257 

 . . 269 

 . . 259 

 271, 273 

 . . 271 

 241, 246 

 . . 278 

 241, 260 

 235, 238 j 

 51,274,275 

 . . 243 j 

 . . 259 ! 

 259, 269 1 

 . . 251 ' 



. 251 

 233, 239 I 

 . . 253 

 270, 232, 242 

 . . 270 

 236, 238 

 . . 235 

 . 246 

 . . 252 

 . . 270 

 . . 257 

 . . 272 

 . . 253 

 . . 272 

 . . 257 

 . . 264 

 263, 264 

 263, 264 

 . . 264 

 . . 256 



235 



patvi'S 



pai'Mioka . 

 l).a-jd.kia . 

 p.ap'.ua 

 p.api<s . . . 

 paupdxi . 

 pekavoupi 

 fis/.dvoupo? . 



ij.ikiuva 



p.-pffpdos? . 



pepr^dvi . 



ij.o'^oys'.poq . 



tui'^oyit'.p'i^ . 



p.oop.upo'i 



p.(i(Txaxzd-oO() 



p.,>tJYYP'' • ■ 



; p.()udldfTTpa . 



I p.oupp.o'JpO- ■ 

 \ poup(>u'^(J- 



pouap-ouka . 



pooTpouC)a . 

 i p.-axakdp<) . 

 ' p.-axakidpo-i 



p.-d.ka<i . 



p.-app.~o'j'/'. . 



p-difs? . 



fj.'jki>x6~t 



pu^tydpi . 

 I p.u^Tvo? . 



p.U^(U'^ 



p.'jpa'.va . 

 popoi 

 po9 . • 



SdpXTj 



vzoptat yakz 

 Si'Mtoka . 



260 



Oisowayo^ 



261 



[1892. 



267, 268 

 . . 267 

 . . 253 

 264, 267 

 . . 267 

 . . 252 

 266, 267 

 266, 267 

 . 2^7 

 . 243 

 . 263 

 . 278 

 . 278 

 . 263 

 . . 260 

 . . 246 

 . . 236 

 . . 263 

 . . 276 

 . . 263 

 . . 240 

 . . 277 

 ... 277 

 . . 263 

 . . 268 

 . . 250 

 . . 269 

 252 

 . . 252 

 252, 261 

 246,247,248 

 . . 248 

 276, 278 

 235-239 

 . . 251 

 235, 238 

 . . 267 

 253,255,279 

 . 253 

 . 246 




1892.] 



6l/i<TX()<} 

 OVO^ . 



dEupoyyo 

 6pxu<s 



6p(fw<i 



ovyav/a 



ovpavoa7.o~o 



o<ftg . 



IlaXaij-uda 



TiaTzayoMx; 



Tza~~akha 



Tzarepirffa 



TzeXdycii 



nspatag 



pxa 



■KipXTj 



Tzs.a7.a'>iipiTC!a 

 ■Ki(Tzp()(fa 

 ~"pai()i . 

 Tisrpoi^'apo 

 ■KrjXap.ug . 

 ■KAaraptSa 

 TzXaTiraa 

 -Xixziiya^ 

 TZoixOM<i . 



izovrixi 



'PaSdsutra 



f')a6()ia 



pafi<i . 



payi<i . . 



pv/a 



pi'^ri . . 



fSupStx} . 



NATURAL SCIENCES 



.... 253, 255 



248 



277, 236, 238, 260, 276 



l',a(fidsq ... 250 



. . . 256 



. 256, 257 



246, 260, 261 ' 



. 260, 261 



263 



263 



272 



247 



256 



275 



243 



234 



247 



252 



259 



241,259, 260 



... 278 



. 244, 268 



. 238, 260 



268, 269, 270 



, 255, 256, 257 



252 



242 



254 



246 

 235 

 246 

 276 

 238 

 . 238, 277 

 . 249, 250 

 . . . 239 

 . . . 236 

 236-239, 277 

 . 236, 238 

 ... 278 

 ... 260 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



latv-dpriq 258 



aaxxiipdcpa 250 



aaXtdpa 275 



aaXidps<} 275 



ffdX-a 266 



(Tdk-ri 266 



(sai>.~a'^<.o<; 257 



ffap-yipo 258 



(ray-dpn<i 258 



aapaod-^o 269 



aapydva 249 



trapylvo^ . . . . 249,261,267 



(Tapyo^ .... 249,252,261, 



.... 262, 263, 267 



adpda 243 



(Tdpdrj 243 



ffapiJri'^rj 243 



(TapdiXa 243 



(Tapdw 243 



irapdsX.o/jLdva , . . . . 242 



ffapar.o^ 243, 249 



(Taopt'h 257 



(Taupidi xuvTiytfi .... 257 



fraupi^ 253, 257 



(Taupo? 257 



^c^/«? 240 



ffskdyrj . 234-239,240,247,279 



fTsMyc 238 



(JtKdyia 240 



^£/«/w(5r/9 . 238, 239, 240, 279 



(T.-A^j'vrj 270 



(jxaUdp', 265, 271 



(!xdHapi><i 265 



(Txdvftapo<i 265 



<7xapp.o<i 244 



(jxapoyaidapo . . 261,262,263 



ffxdpo? . . 246, 261, 262, 263 



(Txdpo? aloX()<$ 263 



Gxdp<)<i ovia<; 263 



(Txtaoz.h'i 269 




284 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



(T/.{a'.>a 



ffX'.l'"? . 



(Ty.io<i xaAca'/.ooda 

 Gy.ksij.~ou 

 G7.okia<i . 

 ffzofxSpi . 

 ffy.6 ;j.6 po(; 

 axovTQ . 

 (TxopduXai 

 ffxop~atva 

 (Txop-r^a , 

 ffxnpTziog , 



ffXOpnio'S ~OtxO.O'i 



ffxop-t? , 



<TX(IU/J.Spl . 

 t7XU/.'J)V 



ffxuXi . 

 axu)J.a 

 ffxu/.6(/'apo 



ffxufjyo? . 

 GX'JTZrU) . 



Gii.a.piq 

 (Tij.ipva 



ffij.vpa'.'^a 



aij.ups'^a . 



ffjiopo^ 



aopaoXXa 



(Tuu6h)p.i~T)<; 



aouSlop.urdpi 



aau)SiVa . 



(Tou/J>ufj.~apdo^ 



ff-ai96<papo 



a-dpo<s . 



ffTT/pa 



ffZztpddia 



ffTOUplOVl 



254 



233 



. 269 



. 269 



. 269 



. 269 



. 278 



. 266 



. 254 



255, 256 



. 265 



255, 257 



274 



274 



247, 274 



274 



274 



254 



233 



235, 238 



233 



233 



233, 234 



235 



265 



267, 268 



247, 248 



252, 261 



247, 248, 279 



. 247 



. 248 



. 236 



. 263 



. 244 



. 270 



. 270 



. 254 



262, 263 



. 261 



. 250 



246, 260 



. 241 



261 



244 



azpiDii.arzv^ 



ao'/aypi^a 



(ToyaypiQ 



aifiyya 



(7(ft')pat'^a 



Ta'.-^ia 

 zavrd'/i) 

 T(»c>a 

 Tpdyoc 



rpryXrj 



rptxiag 



Tptyio^ 



rpr/ii 



rpuytbv 



Tff^po? 



Tff'.yapoXia 

 -(n~Xdxi . 

 z<j{~itu).a 

 zai--()opa 

 rucXhai . 



offztpa , 

 (Pa-yypi 

 <pdyp(fi . 

 (pidijMu).a 

 (fidi r^? do.X 

 (fiffffa 

 (fpiffaa . 



(foxii . 

 <fox()(l'ano 



XaXxcOz? . 

 y('v/'^a . 

 ■/dw.rj . . 

 yfV/o'S . 

 yapaxiSa 



235 



aaar^q 



247 



267, 



266 

 267 

 279 

 270 

 253 

 270 

 278 

 271 

 254 

 267, 268 

 . . 268 

 261, 268 

 242, 243 

 . . 243 

 242, 243 

 -239, 240, 247 

 254 

 268 

 276 

 259 

 264 

 249 

 230,233,235, 

 . 239, 240 

 ... 235 

 . 263, 267 

 247, 264, 269 

 ... 271 

 ... 247 

 . 242, 243 

 . 242, 243 

 ... 269 

 . 260, 269 

 . 269, 270 

 ... 246 

 . 242, 243 

 ... 260 

 , 260, 264, 276 

 ... 260 

 ... 261 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



'/^a.wx-ri<i 274 



j^acfft' 244 



7£?A«? 269, 270 



Xtdoh 269, 270 



^stXouaa 270 



Xih 244 



XeXiS/jMji 240, 273 



yjh>Jo;6<l>apo . . 249, 273, 274 

 Xs?ud(o> .... 268, 272, 273 

 Xeh,udt(Ts^- .... 269, 270 

 /j)-w> .... 251,252,261 

 Xe?.u»ta 252 



X'-^f'-P'- 276 



yhia/.a 278 



yyipo^ 236 



yii'j8payjvji^a 239 



Xpiffro(papo 258 



Xpi'>!^'-': 269 



Xpoaoipa .... 264, 265 



XpO(yii(fpu<i 265 



Xpuffui^'apo 242 



XUilJ-arida 278 



Wa<^upbv wuv 246 



9''/7rra . . 236, 238, 277, 278 




286 proceedings of the academy of [1892. 



July 5. 

 The President, General Isaac J. AVistar, iu the chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 



July 12. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



July 19. 

 Mr. Charles ]Morris in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



July 26. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lymax in the chair. 

 Six persons present. 



August 2. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



August 9. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Jsine persons present. 



August 16. 

 Mr. Charles Roberts in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 287 



August 23. 

 Mr. Charles Roberts in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Autosporadic Seeds in Oxalis stricta," by 

 Ernest Walker, was presented for publication. 



The death of Edw. C. Knight, a member, July 21, 1892, was 

 announced. 



August 30. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



William Briughurst, M. D. was elected a member. 

 Carlos Berg, of Buenos Aires, w^as elected a correspondent. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




288 proceedings of the academy of [1892, 



the autosporadic seeds of oxalis stricta. 

 By EpvNest Walker. 



The effective method this plant has of scattering its mature seeds, 

 in which it proves to be a decided " touch-me-not " seems hitherto 

 to have escaped observation. In Gray's Manual, and other like 

 works, the seeds are spoken of as having a " loose and separating" 

 coat, but the pai't this envelope plays in dehiscence and in the dis- 

 tribution of the species is not mentioned. 



In Mav, 1891, I made some careful observations, and the follow- 

 ing memoranda : — 



As the seeds of Oxalis strida L. attain maturity, the erect loculi- 

 cidal capsule becomes flaccid. In this condition the least distur- 

 bance, as the touch of the hand or shaking by the wind, causes 

 the seeds to be expelled with considerable force, and thrown two 

 or three feet. Sitting for a few minutes by a plant, the tick of the 

 seeds as they were continually projected could be distinctly heard. To 

 place a capsule in the palm of the hand, and press it, suggested the 

 bursting of pop-corn. 



The shooting of the seed was done so quickly that it was some 

 time before I could make out the manner in which it was accom- 

 plished. 



The active agent is the outer coat of the seed. This consists of 

 a translucent, shining, membraneous envelope stretched tightly over 

 the seed. When it bursts, it suddenly and elastically turns inside- 

 out ; after which it becomes flaccid. 



This coat is thicker in a line along the ventral margin of the pen- 

 dulous seed, or along the edge which is next the axis of the cap- 

 sule. The rupture is naturally ahmg the opposite edge. Doubling 

 back against the axis of the upright capsule gives this membra- 

 neous coat, or spermoderm the power to project the seed. 



Placing some of the seeds under a lens and puncturing the coat 

 with a needle the rupture was found to occur at other parts than the 

 margin, or at any point the coat might be pricked. In this instance 

 the envelope not having a " back-stop " was often thrown further 

 than the seed. 



When in the capsule the position of the seeds is such as to throw 

 them not only outward but slightly upward. They are cast farther 

 than if projected horizontally. Some seeds Avere found as far as 

 three feet from the capsule from which they were thrown. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 289 



September 6. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



September 13. 

 Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



On the Foramen mag)nim of the Common Porpoit<e, and on a 

 Human Loiver Jaw of unusual size. — Dr. Harrison Allen 

 invited attention to two skulls of the common porpoise (Tursiop 

 tursio) and demonstrated that the foramen magnum in both speci- 

 mens received no i)()rtion of the basi-occipital bone. The exoccipi- 

 tal bones meet in the median line and the posterior border of the 

 basi-occipital bone lies fully one-half an inch in advance of the 

 foramen. The arrangement of parts thus proved to be an excep- 

 tion to the general statement adn)itted by leading authorities, 

 namely, that the Mammalia are characterizt'd by the lower bolder 

 of the foramen magnum being formed by the basi-occipital element, 

 and by the occipital condyle not being composed entirely by the 

 exoccipital. 



Dr. Allen also invited attention to a human lower jaw of unusual 

 size from the Sandwich Islands. As compared with the lower jaw 

 of an English skull the following measurements will prove of 

 interest. 



Height of ascending ramus 

 Width of ascending ramus 

 Length of horizontal ramus 

 Goniosymphysal length 

 Width of horizontal ramus at 



first bicuspid 

 Width of horizontal ramus 



opposite last molar 

 Symphysal height 



Coronoid height i •> 



Condyloid height 2 j 



Intergonial width 3' o] 



It will be thus seen that the greatest contrasts in .size between an 

 average bone and the one exhibited are to be found in the rami, 

 anri tiie least contrasts, and in most ft-atures none at all, in the pro- 

 portions of the processes and in the width between the angles. 




290 proceedings of the academy of [1892. 



September 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Revision of the Xorth American Creodonta 

 with notes of some Genera which have been referred to that Group," 

 by W. B. Scott, was presented for publication. 



September 27. 

 jNIr. Chas. p. Perot in the chair. 

 Two hundred and two persons present. 



Greenland Explorations. — Mr.'R. E. Peary, U. S. N., made an 

 informal and preliminary report ou his exploration of Greenland 

 daring the last twelve months. He announced that he had been 

 able to carry out almost to the letter the plan submitted to the 

 Academy, the merits of which this society, whose practical interest 

 made fruition possible, was the first to recognize. He had traced 

 the northern limit of the interior ice cap of Greenland and settled 

 the northern extension of the main land-mass. He had completed 

 the surveys of Davis Strait and Inglefield Gulf and he had availed 

 himself of unique opportunities of studying the Arctic Highlanders, 

 a tribe of about tw^o hundred and thirty souls separated from the 

 rest of humanity by the sea and by impassible glaciers, but whose 

 acute ability to obtain their two great necessities: something to eat 

 and something to w'ear, is not excelled in the world. 



Mr. Peary then returned to the Academy the flag presented to 

 him at the setting out of his expedition. It is the only flag which 

 has been carried across the northern boundary of Greenland, 

 or has floated over the east coast above the 77th parallel. 



Prof. Heilprix read the preliminary report of the Relief 

 Expedition, which will be published in detail at a later date. 



The following were elected members: — J. Liberty Tadd, George 

 S. Wolf and N. V. Ball, M. D. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 291 



A EEVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN CREODONTA WITH NOTES 



ON SOME GENERA WHICH HAVE BEEN REFERRED TO 



THAT GROUP. 



BY W. B. SCOTT. 



The Creodonta form an extremely heterogeneous group, very 

 difficult to define and still more difficult to classify and subdivide. 

 This difficulty arises partly from the imperfection of the available 

 material, but more especially from the lack of diagnostic characters 

 which are common to all the members of the order and from the 

 minute steps of gradation by which they shade into other groups of 

 allied unguiculates and even ungulates. Creodonta were among the 

 earliest fossil mammals which were accurately studied and they were 

 then referred to the carnivores. Laurillard, Pomel and others, 

 however, regarded them as marsupials, and Ayraard and Gaudry 

 following this example, have called them Sous-didelphes. In 1875 

 Cope proposed the name of Creodonta for the group which he 

 regarded as a suborder of the Insectivora, but in 1877 he named 

 this comprehensive order the Bunotheria, referring to it as suborders, 

 the Creodonta, Mesodonta, Insectivora, Tillodonta and Tseuiodonta. 

 The creodont division has not found universal acceptance, Filhol 

 regarding them as Carnivora, Wortman as Insectivora and Lydekker 

 as a suborder of the Caruivora. Nevertheless, they cannot be in- 

 cluded among either the insectivores or the carnivores without unit- 

 ing these groups, and it is therefore most convenient to regard them 

 as an order. 



The number of genera which should be referred to the Creodonta, 

 the families into which they should be grouped, and their mutual 

 relationships are matters of great obscurity and difficulty, and opinion 

 on the subject has been both conflicting and fluctuating. The reason 

 for this lies largely in the imperfect condition of the available 

 material, the few genera, whose structure is at all completely under- 

 stood, being for the most part menil)ers of highly differentiated side- 

 lines, which have but little importance in estimating the character 

 of the group as a whole. JNIore especially is this true of the Puerco 

 genera, which are known almost exclusively from teeth, together 

 with a few scattered bones, and as the trigonodont (tritubercular) 

 plan of molar tooth is so universal in that formation, the discrimiiia- 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



tion of genera, families and even orders from teeth alone is 

 excessively difficult. It may well be the ease that several genera 

 which are now referred to the creodonts, really belong to very 

 difierent orders. Pantolestes, for example, was regarded as a 

 ereodont until the discovery of the foot-structure showed it to be an 

 artiodactyl. For an opportunity to study the Puereo creodonts, I 

 am indebted to Professor Cope, who, with his accustomed liberality, 

 has placed his unique collection at my disposal. I would also express 

 my thanks to Professor Osborn who, by kindly sending me the 

 advance-sheets of his paper on the Wasatch fauna, has enabled me 

 to incorporate his very interesting observations upon certain genera 

 of that formation. 



It would be quite superfluous to recapitulate here all the various 

 schemes of classification which have been proposed for the creodonts, 

 and I shall therefore mention only those presented by Cope and 

 Schlosser. Originally Cope' excluded Mesonyx and Hycenodon from 

 the group and recognized but three families ; the Amblodonidce, 

 with Ambloctoiius and "perhaps Palceonidis ; " the Oxycenidce, Avith 

 Oxyceiia, Stypolophus, Pterodon, and perhaps Pa^?'(o/e//-^^ ; the Arcto- 

 cyonidoe Avith Arctocyon and pi'obably Miacis and Dldymidis. 

 In 1884, Cope proposed a new plan of division between the Creo- 

 donta and Insectivora, assigning to the former the genera with tri- 

 tubercular molars and dividing the group, thus greatly enlarged, 

 into eight families ; Mesonyckldce (including Amblodomis) Hyceno- 

 dontidce, Chrysochlorididce, Leptididce (or Oentetidce), MythomyidoR 

 (or Potamogalidce), Talpida', Oxyfenidce (including Paheonidis) and 

 Miacidce. In his great work on the Tertiary Vertebrata (1885) the 

 same author removes the existing families of insectivores and the 

 genus Hycenodon from the creodonts, but retains provisionally the 

 Leptididce, from which the Ardoeyonidce are removed, and places 

 Palceonidis in the Amblodonidce. Schlosser^ places the Centetidce, 

 Talpidce, Chrysoddorididte and Potamogalidce, together with the 

 extinct genera, Leptidis, Idops, 3Iesodedes and Diacodou among the 

 Insectivora, refers the Miacidce to the Carnivora and divides the 

 Creodonta into five families: (1) Ardoeyonidce with Arctocyon, 

 Hyodedes, Heteroborus and Miocloenus. (2) Proviverridce with 

 Deltatherimn, Triisodon, DidHphodus, Stypoloplnis, Qiiercytherinm, 

 Proviverra and Cynohycenodon. (3) Oxycenidce with Pterodon, 



1 Rep. U. S. Geogr. Surv. W. lOdth Mer. Vol. IV, Pt. II, pp. 87ff. 

 *Die Affcn, Lemuren, etc , d. Eiirop. Tert. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Oxycvjia, Proiopsalis and Hycenodon. (4) Amblydonidcp, with 

 Ambhjctonm and Paktoniciis. (5) Mesonychidce, with Mesonyx, 

 Dissa.cHs, Sarcothraustes, Fatriofelis and Thereidheriuin. Later in 

 the same work (1889) he mi)diHes this arrangement by removing 

 the Mlacidce from the Carnivora and erecting them into a special 

 group, "Creodonta Adaptiva." I regard Schlosser's scheme as, on 

 the whole, a very natural one and have adopted it with some modi- 

 fication. 



For the reasons already explained, the following classification of 

 the Creodonta must be regarded as merely tentative, a provisional 

 attempt to arrange the genera by phyla or lines of divergence, 

 which can be but imperfectly expressed by rigid definitions, even if 

 these lines were much more clearly and completely understood than 

 is the case at present. It may seem that I have unduly increased 

 the number of genera, and that many of these are but vaguely 

 defined. But it t^hould be remembered tiiat in the Puerco, and to 

 a somewhat less degree in the Wasatch, the pattern of the teeth is 

 similar throughout many different groups, and minute differences of 

 tooth-structure must be employed when we have reason to believe 

 that they indicate important differences in the general character of 

 the animal. This is illustrated by Pantolestes, an artiodactyl, which 

 was regarded, and with good reason, as a creodont. With our 

 present materials a rigid system is impracticable, because it leads to 

 the unnatural association of forms really very different. But at 

 the same time, it must be admitted that such vagueness is most 

 undesirable and may lead us quite astray. Hence, the emphasis 

 laid upon the provisional character of the scheme. 



In the following table of families and in the enumeration of the 

 genera under those families, the problematical and doubtful forms 

 are omitted from considerati(m and will be discussed at the close of 

 the paper. It must not, however, be inferred from this, that all 

 those genera which are enumerated belong unmistakably to the 

 creodonts ; merely that they very j)robably do so. 



I. Fourth upper premolar not forming a well-developed secto- 

 rial ;^ sectorials present, if at all, in more than one pair. 



1. Superior molars tritubercular, not trenchant; cusps erect and 

 acute ; inferior molars tuberculo-sectorial, with trigonid moderately 

 elevated above the talon and not forming a shearing blade; pre- 



* Oxjana and Palceonictis form a partial exception to this statement. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



molars simple and trenchant, P4 with a deuterocone, and p* some- 

 times with deuteroconid Oxycl;enid^. 



2. Superior molars more or less completely quadritubercular ; tri- 

 gonid of lower molars very little or not at all higher than talon ; 

 paraconid much reduced or absent ; all cusps low and massive ; pre- 

 molars high and acute Arctocyonid^.. 



3. Superior molars tritubercular, with low, massive cusps, but 

 sometimes having a Avell-developed hypocone on ^2 ; trigonid much 

 higher than talon, but not forming a shearing blade; paraconid 

 reduced ; premolars high and acute Triisodontid^. 



4. Superior molars tritubercular, not trenchant ; inferior molars 

 with metaconid rudimentary or absent; talon trenchant, lacking 

 entoconid. Astragalus deeply grooved, except in Dissacns 



Mesonychid.^. 



5. Superior molars tritubercular and somewhat trenchant; para- 

 and metacones closely approximated, and with a cutting crest poste- 

 rior to the latter ; inferior molars with elevated trigonid, forming a 

 trenchant blade Proviverrid^. 



6. Para- and metacones of superior molars connate or indistin- 

 guishably fused, protocone reduced or absent ; posterior cutting 

 ridge much enlarged ; inferior molars with metaconid and talon 

 reduced or absent; the proto- and paraconids enlarged, flattened 

 and forming an efficient sectorial blade Hy^enodoxtid^e. 



7. Superior molars without or with only rudimentary posterior 

 cutting ridge ; para- and metacones very high and pointed and well 

 separated ; inferior molars with reduced talon, w^ell developed meta- 

 conid ; proto- and paraconids enlarged, flattened and forming an 

 efficient sectorial blade. Face shortened Pal.eonictid^. 



II. Fourth upper premolar and first lower molar forming the 

 single pair of sectorials; superior molais tritubercular, inferior 

 molars, except the first, also tubercular Miacid^. 



OXYCL^NIDJE, Fam. nov. 



Superior molars tritubercular, not trenchant ; cusps erect and 

 acute; inferior molars tuberculo sectorial, with trigonid moderately 

 elevated above the talon, but not forming a shearing blade; pre- 

 molars simple and trenchant, £4 Avith a deuterocone and p* some- 

 times with deuteroconid. 



The genera associated to form this family are known almost 

 entirely from the dentition, and their relationship with one another, 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



even their ordinal position, is very obscure, the teeth being of that 

 generalized and primitive character to which all mammalian types 

 of dentition converge, as we trace them back in time. 



OXYCL^NUSi Cope. 

 Syn. Mioclanus Cope,'' in part. 



Only upper dentition known. The anterior premolars form sim- 

 ple, compressed and trenchant cones; on P4 there is also a well 

 developed deuterocone. The molars are simply tritubercular, with 

 small, erect and acute cusps. ^ is the largest of the series, espe- 

 cially in the transverse direction. The para- and metacones arise 

 close to the outer side of the crown, the latter somewhat nearer to 

 the median line. The protocone is the largest of the elements. 

 There is no distinct hypocone, merely a thickening of the cingulum 

 at that point, which is most marked in n^. Minute but very dis- 

 tinct proto- and metaconules are present. M3 is very much reduced 

 in size and more oval than triangular in shape, but preserves all the 

 cusps. 



One species: 0. {Mioclcenus) cttspidahts Cope. Puerco. 



CHKIACirS3 Cope. 

 Syn. Pelycodus Cope, in part. 



The dentition of this genus is very much like that of the primitive 

 lemuroids, to a genus of which some of the species were originally 

 referred. The character of the symphysis, the spacing of the inferior 

 premolars and the presence of the paraconid, being the only impor- 

 tant differences. The upper premolars have compressed and acute 

 protocones and on P3 ""^ 4 are Avell developed deuterocones. The 

 upper molars are triangular in shape and much extended trans- 

 versely ; '^\ has a small hypocone and "^ a hypocone and an addi- 

 tional cusp in front of the protocone, which in accordance with 

 Osborn's system of nomenclature, we may call the protostyle; jn^s is 

 the smallest of the series and has neither hypocone nor protostyle. 

 The anterior lower premolars are simple and spaced apart, but P* 

 has a deuteroconid and heel. In the molars the trigonid is much 

 higher than the talon and the paraconid is reduced ; the talon also 

 has three cusps, of which the hypoconulid on m^ is in some species 

 enlarged and carried on a distinct fang. 



1 Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1883, p. 312. 



^ Trans. Am. Piid. Soc, Vol XVI, Pt. II, p. 320. 



•' Pioc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1883, p. 313. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Two species certainly belong to this genus, C. {Pelycodns) pelvi- 

 dens Cope and C. truncatns Cope, both from the Puerco. In addi- 

 tion we may provisionally refer to it three other species, of which 

 the upper dentition is unknown, but whose lower teeth agree closely 

 with those of the typical species ; these are : C. {Deltatherlum) 

 Baldwini Cope, and C. stenops Cope, from the Puerco, and C. (Pely- 

 codus) angulatus Cope, from the Wasatch. 



PROTOCHRIACUS, gen. nov. 

 Syn. C/iriiiirus Cope, in part. 



This genus is closely allied to Chriacus, but differs from it in a 

 number of details. F^ has no distinct deuterocone ; the upper 

 molars are less extended transversely, the hypocone is smaller and 

 the protostyle al)sent. In tlie lower molars the trigonid and talon 

 are of nearly equal height. Two species: P. {Chriactts) prisons 

 Cope, and P. (Chriacus) simplex Cope. Puerco. 



EPICHRIACUS, gen. nov. 

 Syn. Chriactis Cope, in part. 



In this genus the upper molars resemble those of Chriacus but 

 the last lower premolar has all the elements of a molar, though 

 not fully developed. The trigonid rises considerably above the 

 talon. The third molar in both jaws is very much reduced. The 

 mandible is long and slender. 'J'he humerus has a thin, broad and 

 low trochlea with large epicondylar foramen and very prominent 

 supinator ridge. The ulna has a long olecranon and the sigmoid 

 notch is very oblique to the line of the shaft. The astragalus is very 

 peculiar; the trochlea has a remarkably limited antero-posterior 

 extent and is nearly flat transversely, but very oblique, high on the 

 external and very low on the mesial side, where there is a depression 

 for the internal malleolus of the tibia. The ectal calcaneal facet is 

 very large and widely separated from the sustentacular facet, which is 

 very narrow ; the neck is very slender and directed obliquely 

 distally and inward. 



One species: E. (Chriacus) schlosserianus Cope: Puerco. 



PENTACODON, gen. nov. 

 Syn. Chriacus Cope, in part. 



Upper teeth unknown. Anterior lower premolars very small 

 and simple in construction, iT* is large, with large heel and very distinct 

 deuteroconid. The molars increase in size from the first to the 




i892.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



third, which is very large proportionately ; its talou is remarkable 

 for the entire absence of the entoconid; the hypoconid and hypo- 

 eonulid form veiy acute cusps upon the external and posterior 

 borders of the talon respectively, the valley of which thus opens in- 

 ward without obstruction. 



One species : C. {Chriacus) i nversii>< Co\^e : Puerco. 



LOXOLOPHTJSi Cope. 

 Syn. Chriacus Cope, in part. 



The superior molars are tritubercular with very minute hypocone, 

 and are remarkable for their antero-posterior as compared with their 

 transverse extent. The lower molars have a high trigonid with all 

 three cusps well developed and basin-shaped talon with elevated 

 hypoconid. 



One species : h. hyattianus Cope (Syn. Chriacus hyattianus'^ Cope, 

 Loxolophus adajximts^ Cope). Puerco. 



TRICENTES^ Cope. 

 Syn. Miocl(i:m(s Cope, in part. 



This genus is very closely allied to Protoehriacus, but differs in 

 the absence of Pi. The premolars are compressed, acute, very high 

 and simple, except Pj which has a small deuterocone. M, a nd ^ 

 have a nearly quadrate shape, produced by the well developed 

 hypocone and are surrounded by a stout cingulum. M3 is the 

 smallest of the series, the hypocone is absent and the metacone 

 reduced. The canine is large and separated from P2 by a consider- 

 able diastema. Inferior dentition unknown. The face is very 

 short and the anterior edge of the orbit is over the space between P4 

 and "h. The forehead is flat, the supraciliary ridges short and con- 

 verging rapidly to form the sagittal crest. 



Two species may certainly be referred to this genus : T. (Mloclce- 

 iius) bucculentus Cope and T. crassicollidens Cope, Puerco. A third 

 species is doubtful, viz., ? T. (3fiocl(Bnus) subtrigo7ius Cope, in which 

 the number of upper premolars is not know^n, but the tooth struct- 

 ure agrees closely with Trlcentes. Puerco. 



lAmer. Naturalist, 1885, p. 386. 



2 Loc. cit., p. 385, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, Vol. XVI, Ft. II, p. C04. 



3 Am. Nat. 1885, p. 386. 



* Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1883, p. 316. 

 5 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, loc cit., p. 304. 



20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892, 



ELLIPSODON, gen. nov. 

 Syn. Tricentes Cope, in part. 



The systematic position of this form is entirely obscure ; it agrees 

 with Tricentes in having but three upper premolars, but differs 

 entirely in the construction of the molars. The premolars are 

 relatively broad and massive, almost as in Miodcenus ; P* is espe- 

 cially broad and has a very large deuterocone. The molars are 

 oval in shape and have no hypocoue; ^^ is the largest of the series 

 and >f4 very greatly reduced and forms a mere oval-shaped rudi- 

 ment, without recognizable elements. Inferior dentition unknown. 



One species : E. (Tricentes) incequidens Cope. Puerco. 



Though technically Chriacus and its allies, so far as their struct- 

 ure is at present known, belong among the creodonts, their general 

 aspect is very similar to that of the Eocene Primates and it is diffi- 

 cult to resist the suspicion that they will eventually prove to be 

 primitive ancestral forms of that group. 



ARCTOCYONIDJE Cope. 



Superior molars more or less completely quadritubercular ; tri- 

 gonid of lower molars very little or not at all higher than talon ; 

 paraconid much reduced or absent; all cusps of molars low and 

 massive, premolars high and acute. 



CL^NODON, gen. nov. 

 Syn. Miodcenus Cope, in part. 



In the present state of knowledge it is very difficult to justify the 

 separation of this form from the European genus Arctocyon^w^ yet 

 the identification of genera from different continents upon insuffi- 

 cient materials is quite as apt to lead to erroneous conclusions in 

 questions of geological correlation and zoological distribution, as 

 the opposite course is to cause confusion from a systematic point of 

 view. In view of this choice of evils, I have provisionally sug- 

 gested a new name. A not unimportant difference from Arctocyon 

 is the less completely quadritubercular character of the upper 

 molars. From Hyodectes it differs in the greater simplicity of the 

 molars and lack of secondary tubercles, as well as in the less 

 extreme reduction of m^, while it may be distinguished from Hetero- 

 borus by the presence of p^, which is absent in that genus. In Clce- 

 nodon the upper molars are subquadrate in outline, with fairly well 

 developed hypocone. ^ is the largest of the series, "H the smallest. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



The anterior lower premolars are small and feeble ; pi is implanted 

 by a single fang and is separated by a diastema from p^, which has 

 two roots. ^4 is much the largest of the series and consists of a 

 high, acute and trenchant cone with a strong cingulum, which forms 

 minute anterior and posterior basal cusps. The lower molars are 

 longer and narrower than the upper; the talon is larger than the 

 trigonid and the paraconid is much reduced or absent. ^3 has a 

 distinct hypoconulid. The mandible is long and stout, with regu- 

 larly curved inferior border and large, deeply marked masseteric 

 fossa. The zygapophyses of the lumbar vertebrae display the invo- 

 luted and interlocking shape characteristic of the creodonts. The 

 raanus is pentadactyl, plantigrade, and remarkable for the very 

 slight degree of interlocking of the metacarpals. The fibula is 

 very stout and forms an exceedingly massive external malleolus. 

 The astragalus is much like that of Arctocyon, but has a longer, 

 narrower and somewhat flatter trochlea and, as in that genus, is 

 perforated by a foramen. 



Two species are clearly referable to Chenodon : C. {Mioclcemis) 

 Jerox Cope, and C. {Mioclcenus) corrugatus Cope. A third species, 

 C. (Mioclcenus) protogonioides Cope, cannot be technically separated 

 from it, but the general appearance of the teeth is so different from 

 those of the typical species as to justify the suspicion that more com- 

 plete material will cause its removal to another group. In partic- 

 ular, its resemblance to ? Trleentes subtrigonus has been noted by 

 Cope. 



TETRACL^NODON, gen. nov. 

 Syn. Alioiliniiis Cope, in part. 



Superior dentition unknown ; the inferior molars are like those of 

 Clcenodoii, but the premolars are very different. The anterior ones 

 are relatively larger and more massive; p' is a stout, compressed 

 cone and has a minute anterior basal cusp (paraconid) and a small 

 heel, which forms two basin-like depressions, divided by a median 

 ridge. F* has all the elements of a molar, with a massive protoconid 

 and small para- and deuterocon ids ; the heel is low and composed 

 of two cusps (meta- and tetartoconids). The molars are constructed 

 as in Clxznodon, but are less rugose than in either of the undoubted 

 species of that genus. The humerus has a broad and flattened head, 

 small tuberosities and wide, shallow bicipital groove. The deltoid 

 ridge is very prominent and runs far down the shaft, which is stouter 

 than in Arctocyon. The trochlea is higher, thicker and narrower 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



than in that geuus, and the supinator ridge less prominent ; the ent- 

 epicondyle is very large and is perforated. The distal end of the 

 radius is narrow and flattened, and the facets for the scaphoid and 

 lunar are separately marked, a very unusual feature among creo- 

 douts. The ilium is strongly trihedral and very little expanded ; 

 the inferior surface is broad and the spine prominent. 

 One species: T. {Miocliznus) floveriaims Co'pe. Puerco. 



ANACODONi Co])e. 



This genus was founded upon the inferior molars and referred to the 

 Condylarthra. Osborn', however, who has obtained more extensive 

 material, regards it as a creodont and member of the present family. 

 According to him, the molar formula is P^ M.f and the dentition 

 presents the following pecularities: "(1) The enlargement of the 

 second molar in both jaws, the smaller size of the first and third and 



the very marked reduction of the entire premolar series (2) 



The degenerate condition of the cusps of the molars and the forma- 

 tion of innumerable secondary tubercles or crenations. (3) The 

 probable presence of a wide diastema." Ya ^^^s trito- and deutero- 

 cones and the tetartocone is represented by a low ridge, distinct 

 from the cingulum, and thus has the constitution of a molar. The 

 upper molars are of a broad oval shape, with very low main cusps, 

 small hypocone and very much wrinkled and tuberculate surface, 

 ps and * are small and have only a low heel in addition to the proto- 

 couid. M^ has an enlarged hypoconulid. 



One species : A. ursidens Qo\)e'. Wasatch. 



TRIISODONTIDJE, Fam. nov. 



Superior molars tritubercular with low, massive cusps, sometimes 

 having a well developed hypocone on |^ ; trigonid of lower molars 

 much higher than talon, but not forming a shearing blade, para- 

 conid reduced ; premolars high and acute. 



TRIISODONi Cope. 



This genus has many suggestions of affinity with the Meso- 

 nychidce, from which it differs in the less reduced and simplified den- 

 tition. The upper teeth and the anterior lower premolars are not 

 known. The canine is large and of oval section, without cutting 

 edges. F^ is small and p* very large, with very high, acute and 



iProc. Am. Phil. Soc.,1881,p. 181. 



2 Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol. IV, pp. 115-118. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



trenchant protoconid and a talon of two trenchant cusps, of which 

 the external is much the higher and more acute. Seen from the 

 outer side, this tooth closely resembles the corresponding one of 

 DissacHs, differing only in the presence of the tetartoconid. In the 

 molars the trigonid rises considerably above the talon and is com- 

 posed of a high, sharp and massive protoconid, of a small, low 

 metaconid, and a still smaller and lower paraeonid ; the two latter 

 cusps are on the same antero-posterior line and, in m^ at least, are 

 not visible from the external side. The talon consists of a high and 

 sharp hypoconid with trenchant anterior edge and internally three 

 very much smaller cusps, representing the hypoconulid, entoconid 

 and a tubercle in front of the latter to which no name has been 

 given. This crenulate inner border of the talon is highly charac- 

 teristic of the genus. 



Three species: T. qidvirens'is Cope, T. biculmmatus Cope and 

 T. (Mloclcenus) heUprinlanus Cope. In his last publication- Cope 

 refers the T. hellprinianus to a subgenus {Goniacodoii) of Mlo- 

 clcenus, but the talon of the only known tooth agrees best with that 

 of Tviisodon. 



G0NIACOD0N3 Cope. 

 Syn Mioclcenus Cope, in part ; Tri'isodon Cope, in part. 



Though established only as a subgenus of Mlodcznm, this group 

 of species should be raised to full generic rank ; it is closely allied 

 on the one hand to Tviisodon and on the other to Sarcothraustes , 

 the distinction between the three being frequently a matter of much 

 difficulty. The species are of moderate size, smaller on the average 

 than those of either of the allied genera. The anterior upper pre- 

 molars are small and simple. P^ is implanted by three fangs (at 

 least in G. levisanus) but has no distinct deuterocone. P^ has a 

 very high, acute protocoue and well developed deuterocone. The 

 upper molars are triangular in shape with low, conical cusps and 

 iT>/ has a fairly well developed hypocone. P* has a small talon, 

 divided into minute outer and inner cusps. The lower molars are 

 the characteristic feature of the genus ; the trigonid is moderately 

 elevated above the talon ; the proto- and metaconids are of nearly 

 the same size and very closely approximated, forming a twin cusp 



1 Amer. Naturalist, 1881, p. 667. 



2 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, Vol. .\vi, Pt. II, p. 321. 

 ^ Loc. cit. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



which is cleft but a short distance below the apex ; the paracouid 

 is very small, depressed and submedian in position, i. e., standing in 

 front of the space between the proto- and nietaconids. The talon 

 is basin-shaped and consists of hypo- and entoconids Avhich may be 

 of nearly the same size (G. rusticiis) or the former may be much 

 the larger ((r. levisanus). A minute hypoconulid is also present. 

 M^ is much reduced. 



Three species: G. (Triisodon, Mioclanus) levisanus Cope, G. 

 {Miocloenus) gaudryamis Cope, and G. {Triisodon, Mioclcenus) 

 rusticiis Cope. Puerco. 



MICROCL.a;NODON, gen. nov. 

 Syn. Mioclaniis Cope, in part. 



Known only from lower molars, which are much like those of 

 Gonincodoii, especially in the constitution of the trigonid, but the 

 talon is very different and agrees with that of Deltatherkim and 

 Pentacodon in the absence of the entoconid and large size of the 

 hypoconulid, especially in nT^ ; the valley is thus widely open on the 



inner side. 



One species: M. {Triisodon, Miockvnus) assurgens Cope. Puerco. 



SARCOTHRAUSTESi Cope. 

 Syn. MiocLiHtis Cope, in part. 



The largest Puerco Creodonts are to be found among the species 

 of this genus. The superior molars, so far as they are known, and 

 the lower premolars agree closely with those of Goniacodon, the 

 only differences being their larger size, more massive cusps, thicker 

 and more prominent cingulum, especially at the antero-external 

 angle of the crown. ^_s is oval in shape and reduced in size, having 

 lost the metacone. The anterior lower premolars are remarkable for 

 their small size and simple construction, but p' is very much larger 

 and higher and has a large talon, divided into inner and outer 

 cusps. The lower molars differ from those of Goniacodon in the 

 composition of the trigonid; the protocouid is much the largest 

 element, the para- and metacouids are greatly reduced and placed on 

 the same fore and aft line, as in Triisodon, but the talon is very 

 different, consisting of hypo- and entoconids and small hypoconulid, 

 which may or may not be much enlarged on m^, the size of which 

 tooth is very variable in the different species. The skull has a 

 very small cranial cavity and a very high occipital crest, which is 



1 Proc. Am. Phil. Sec, 1881, p. 193. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 803 



arched from side to side and continued forward into an extremely 

 prominent sagittal crest. The zygomatic arches are heavy and pro- 

 ject strongly from the skull ; the glenoid cavity is deeply concave, 

 with prominent pre- and post-glenoid crests. The mandible varies 

 much in size and proportions among the different species, being in 

 some long and slender and in others very massive, but in all the 

 ascending ramus is of remarkable antero-posterior extent, the dis- 

 tance from the condyle to m^ exceeding the lengtli of the molar pre- 

 molar series. The condyle is })laced low down and there is a short 

 hooked angular process. The masseteric fossa is large but shallow, 

 especially so in the larger species. 



In his latest paper^ on the Puerco fauna Cope classifies Sarco. 

 thraustes as a subgenus of Mlochenus, a view which is obviously unten- 

 able, as the affinities of the genus are much more nearly with the 

 Mesonychiddc, in which family Schlosser has included it. 



There are five well marked species of Sarcothratistes, all of which 

 are from the Puerco beds: -S". antiquus Cope, 8. coryphceus Cope, S. 

 bathygnathus Cope and S. (Couorydes, Miockenus) crassicuspis Cope. 



MESONYCHIDJE Cope. 



Superior molars tritubercular, not trenchant ; inferior molars with 

 metaconid rudimentary or absent; talon trenchant, lacking ento- 

 conid. Astragalus deeply grooved, except in Dissacus, and articu- 

 lating with the cuboid. 



The long continued existence of this family, throughout the entire 

 Eocene and into the White River Miocene, brought with it numbers 

 of important changes in dental and skeletal structure, so that char- 

 acters diagnostic of the entire family are difficult to find, and vet 

 the close relationship and succession of the various genera are so 

 clear and obvious that it is impracticable to place them in more than 

 one family. 



DISSACUS 2 Cope. 



This, the oldest member of the series, is in many respects closely 

 similar to Goniacodon and Trrisodon, but with important difl'erences. 

 The dental formula is unreduced, but the up])er premolars have 

 already attained a considerable degree of complication. P., is much 

 elongated antero-posteriorly and has a small deuterocone ; P4 is com- 

 pletely molariform, having a distinct tritocone in addition to the 



1 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, Vol. xvi, Pt. II. p. 320- 



^Amer. Naturalist, 188], p. 1019. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



large deuterocone. The upper molars are very simple and consist 

 of a large creseentic protocone, and low, compressed para- and meta- 

 cones, the latter somewhat the smaller of the two. In the lower jaw 

 p"! is very small and simple, implanted by one fang. Y^, '" and * are 

 all alike, except in size, which increases posteriorly; these teeth 

 consist of a high, acute, trenchant and recurved protoconid, 'and a 

 low cutting heel, but with no paraconid, except for a rudimentary 

 one on p*. In the lower molars the protoconid is greatly enlarged, 

 compressed, acute and with cutting edges ; the metaconid has almost 

 completely fused with the protoconid, from which it is separated 

 only by a very shallow groove ; the paraconid is much reduced and 

 forms a low anterior basal cusp; the talon consists of the hypoconid 

 only, which has a trenchant upper margin. The mandible is slender, 

 with long symphysis which reaches to p^. The posterior thoracic 

 and lumbar vertebrse have the characteristic creodtmt feature of 

 involuted zygapophyses. In the humerus the entepicondyle is less 

 prominent than is usual among creodonts, but retains the foramen; 

 the trochlea is low, but distinctly convex. The ulna has a long 

 olecranon. The head of the radius is transversely oval and displays 

 three humeral surfaces. The astragalus is very slightly grooved, 

 and the trochlear surfiice extends to the middle of the neck ; distally 

 there is a distinct facet for the cuboid, separated from the navicular 

 surface by an angle; the body of the bone is pierced by a foramen. 

 The calcaneum has a long tuber calcis and rather small sustenta- 

 culum. The proximal end of the cuboid exhibits separate facets for 

 the calcaneum and astragalus. The feet were plantigrade and 

 pentadactyl. 



Three species have been referred to this genus : D. navajovhis Cope, 

 and D. carnifex Cope are from the Puerco and D. leptognathns 

 Osborn is from the Wasatch, but being known from a single molar 

 only, is provisionally placed in this genus. 



PACHY3:NAi Cope. 

 Syn. Mesonyx- Cope, in part. 



I^, Ci-, Pi, Mil. The incisors are small, the canines very robust. 

 Pi is small, single-rooted and separated by a short diastema from 



1 Rep. Vert. Foss. New Mexico, U. S. Geog. Surv. W. 100th Mer., 1874, 

 p. 13. 



■^ Mesonyx ossifragus, Tert. Vert. p. 362. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. o05 



P_2 which is somewhat larger and has a tritocone; Ps is similar but 

 lai-ger and P4 is completely molariform, but the tritocone is smaller 

 than the protocone. The molars have very massive cusps and 

 exhibit a reduction of the metacone iu favor of the paracone ; 1^3 

 is the smallest of the series and has lost the metacone entirely. 

 Thelow'er incisors are reduced to two small teeth in each ramus. F^ 

 is small and single rooted, separated from the canine by a short space; 

 p- aiicT^ ^YQ larger and have a well developed cutting talon, while jr* 

 is the largest of the series and rendered completely molariform by 

 the addition of a paraconid. The molars differ from those of Dis- 

 sacus in the entire absence of the metaconid, or perhaps it would be 

 more correct to say that it has become completely fused with the 

 protoconid. The skull has a very long cranium and short face, the 

 zygomatic arches are extremely long, massive and widely expanded. 

 The mandible has a slender horizontal ramus and extremelv broad 

 ascending ramus, ending in a bluntly rounded and slightly everted 

 coronoid ; the angle is truncate and not continued into a distinct 

 process; the symphysis is unusually long. The limb-bones of this 

 genus, as described by Cope, show a remarkable disproportion between 

 the length of the fore and hind legs. The humerus is very short and 

 stout, with a very prominent deltoid crest, which extends nearly the 

 whole length of the shaft; there is no distinct intertrochlear promi- 

 nence; the entepicondyle is very prominent and jtierced by a fora- 

 men. The ulna is long in proportion to the humerus and has a 

 strikingly long olecranon. The radius has a transversely oval head 

 and ma.ssive distal end. The femur is long and stout, the tibia long 

 and rather slender. The astragalus is well grooved and has a large 

 cuboidal facet which is nearly half as wide as that for the navicular, 

 a character unknown among creodonts, except in this family. The 

 metapodials are short, the phalanges depressed, the unguals flat- 

 tened and almost hoof-like. 



The species of this group were the largest of the Eocene flesh- 

 eaters and must have presented an exceedingly curious appearance 

 when in life from the disproportion between the great head, exceed- 

 ing that of the largest grizzly bears in size, and the small weak feet, 

 as well as that between the length of the fore and hind limbs. 



Two species : P. (Mesonyx) ossifraga Cope and P. r/i(/ai)tea Osborn. 

 Wasatch. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



MESONYXi Cope. 



Syn. Synoplotheriuni- Cope, Dromocyoti'' Mar>li. 



I have elsewhere* given a very full acount of the osteology of 

 this genus, and shall therefore devote but a small space to it here* 

 emphasizing especially the points in which it differs from Pachy(ena' 

 The dental formula is If CI P| Mi The upper molars differ from 

 those of Pachycena in the equal size of the para- and metacones, 

 and P^ is even more completely molariform, all three cusps being of 

 nearly equal size. In the lower jaw the premolars, except p^, have 

 assumed the molar pattern by the addition of the paraconid and 

 trenchai\t talon. The molars differ from those of Pachycena in the 

 reduction of the paraconid and enlargement of the talon, and in 

 the simplification of m^, in which the paraconid is rudimentary or 

 absent and the talon very small. The humerus lacks the entepi- 

 condylar foramen and has a remarkably well developed trochlea, 

 which is high, thick and with very large intertroclilear prominence, 

 so as to resemble the corresponding part of a perissodactyl. The 

 ilium is like that of the bears and much moi'e expanded than in any 

 other known creodont. The hind limb does not much exceed the fore 

 limb in length. The feet are digitigrade and tetradactyl, the meta- 

 podials symmetrically arranged as in the hyaena and the metacar- 

 pals very completely interlocked. In this genus the size of the 

 head and length of trunk are very great, as compared with the 

 length of the limbs and feet. 



Three species of the genus have been described: M. obtusidens 

 Cope {Dro7nocyo?i vorax Marsh), 31. (^Synoplotheriuni) lanius Cope, 

 which are from the Bridger, and M. idiitensls Scott, from the Uinta, 

 a much larger species. To these may be provisionally added a 

 fourth which was obtained by the Princeton expedition of 1890 in 

 the White River bad lands of South Dakota. The specimen con- 

 sists of a fore leg, unfortunately not associated with teeth and there- 

 fore its reference to this genus cannot be considered final, though 

 there can be little doubt that it belongs to a member of the family. 

 The species may be named and described as follows : 



?Mesonyx dakotensis, sp. nov. 



Size greater than that of either of the Bridger species, less than J/. 

 uintensis. The distal end of the humerus is broader and more flat- 



1 Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1872, p, 460. 



2 Loc. cit. p. 483; referred to Mesonyx, Tert. Vert. p. 3o8. 



3 Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts 3d Ser., Vol. XII, 1876, p. 403. 

 * journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Vol. IX, no. 2. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



tend than in M. obtusidens, the trochlea lower and wider with more 

 rounded and hemispherical intertrochlear ridge ; the entepicondyle is 

 more prominent, but has no forameu, and the supinator ridge less so. 

 The ulna and radius do not differ in any important respect, except 

 size, from those of the Bridger species, the greater transverse breadth 

 of the shaft of the ulna and the shorter and broader olecranon. The 

 manus is also constituted very much as in 31. obtusidens, but the 

 ulnar side of the carpus, and especially the cuneiform, is broader. 

 The metacarpals are even shorter in proportion and mc. V more 

 slender and displaced more to the ulnar side of the unciform. The 

 following measurements exhibit the proportions of the various parts 

 of the fore limb in the two species. 



Humerus, width of trochlea, 

 Ulna, length, 

 Ulna, length olecranon, 

 Ulna, width, distal end, 

 Radius, length, 

 Radius, width proximal end, 

 Radius, width distal end, 

 Metacarpal II, width prox. end, 

 Metacarpal III, width prox. end. 

 Metacarpal IV, length. 

 Metacarpal IV, width prox. end, 

 Metacarpal V, length. 

 Metacarpal V, width prox. end. 



This species, so far as it is at present known, is of no particular 

 morphological importance, but geologically it is of much interest, as 

 adding another to the increasing list of White River genera of 

 ancient type which justify Cope's comparison of that horizon with, 

 the Oligocene of Europe. 



PROVIVERRID.a: Schlosser. 

 Syn. Leptictidoe Cope, in part. 



Superior molars tritubercular and somewhat trenchant ; para- 

 and metacones closely approximated and with a cutting crest pos- 

 terior to the latter ; inferior molars with elevated trigonid, forming 

 a trenchant blade. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



DELTATHERIUMi Cope. 

 Syn. Lipodectes'- Cope. 



I| Ct Pf Mf. This genus has already become quite specialized 

 through the loss of one premolar in each jaw and the complication 

 ofp*. Pj, the most anterior premolar, is simple, com})ressed and 

 with cutting edges. P3 is more-jiyramidal in shape and is supported 

 by three fangs, though it has no deuterocone, which is well developed 

 on P4. The molars are triangular in shape, with only a slightly 

 thickened cingulum representing the hypocone; 11^1 is the largest 

 and rnj the smallest of the series. The para- and metacones are some- 

 what approximated and are moved mesially from the outer edge of 

 the crown ; from the metacone is given off a short, curved, tren- 

 chant crest which runs to the postero-external angle of the crown, 

 and at the antero-external angle there is a small parastyle ; the 

 conules are rudimentary or absent. In '^3 the metacone is rudi- 

 mentary and has no posterior crest. The anterior lower premolars 

 are simple, but £4 has become almost molariform, with well devel- 

 oped trigonid formed by the addition of the para- and deuteroconids, 

 but the heel is rudimentary. The lower molars are very primitive ; 

 the trigonid retains all the elements and the meta- and paraconids 

 are on the same fore and aft line, so that there is only a beginning 

 of a shearing blade; the talon has become trenchant through loss of 

 the entoconid. The skull has a very long and narrow cranium, with 

 cerebral fossa of small capacity ; the face is short and the orbits 

 placed far forward, much in advance of the very deep post-orbital 

 constriction; the nasals and parietals do not lie in the same plane, 

 the profile of the skull rising somewhat at the forehead ; the sagittal 

 crest is very long and high ; the occiput is low and broad and the 

 occipital crest strongly developed. 



One species: D. fandaminis Cope, (Syn. Lipodectes penetrans 

 Cope). Puerco. 



SIN0PA3 Leidy. 



Syn. Li7nnocyon^ Marsh, in part, Stypolophuf' Cope, Protoionius'^ Cope, 

 Triacodon' Cope. 



In view of the imperfect condition of Leidy's type and the meagre 

 description which he gave of it, I have hesitated long in adopting 



1 Amer. Naturalist, 1880, p. 338. 



- Loc. cit. 1881, p. 1019. 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1871, p. 1 15. 



< Am. Journ. Sci. 3rd Ser., Vol. IV, 1872, p. 126. 



'^ Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1872, p. 446. 



''Rept. Vert. Foss. New Mexico, 1S74, p. 13. 



T Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1872, p. 460. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



his name. There can, however, be no donbt that all of the above 

 names refer to the same generic group, and I have taken tbe name 

 first proposed, though our knowledge of the structure of these forms 

 is entirely due to Cope, who has described and figured them with 

 great fulness. Cope^ separates Stypo/ophus from Sinopa on the 

 ground that in the latter the last lower molar has a rudimentary talon, 

 but in this group this character is too variable to be of generic 

 significance, though, of course, it often is so in others. The teeth 

 are unreduced in number. The anterior upper premolars are quite 

 simple except that Ps has a small deuterocone and is implanted by 

 three fangs. £j has the composition of the sectorial among the 

 Carnivora, consisting of large proto- and deuterocones with a small 

 tritocone forming a trenchant blade. But for its small size, this 

 tooth would be called a sectorial ; there is also a thickening of the 

 cingnlum at the antero-external angle of the crown, forming a 

 minute protostyle. The first and second upper molars are alike, 

 except in size, nij being the larger; they are much extended trans- 

 vericly, the para- and metacones are closely approximated and a 

 well developed trenchant crest runs from the latter to the postero- 

 external angle of the crown, which is longer and more prominent 

 than in Deltather'mm and not, as in that genus, continuous with the 

 metacoue, but separated from it by a cleft. The shifting of the outer 

 cusps inward from the external margin of the crown, which has 

 already commenced in the Puerco genus, is very marked in Sinopa. 

 The conules are rudimentary or absent, but ^i has a minute and 

 ^ a very large parastyle. ^ is much reduced, especially in the 

 antero-posterior direction, having lost the metacone, while the para- 

 cone has moved inward nearly to the middle of the crown. The 

 inferior premolars are simple; y>^ is very small, single-rooted and 

 isolated by a diastema both in front of and behind it ; the other pre- 

 molars are twofanged and form acute compressed cones; p- is with- 

 out accessory cusps, p^ has a small posterior and p+ both anterior 

 and posterior basal cusps. M^ is conspicuously smaller than the 

 others, but has the same construction ; the trigonid is very high, 

 especially the protoconid; the paraconid is more on the same fore 

 and aft line with the protoconid than in Deltatherium and the two 

 together form a correspondingly more efficient shearing blade ; the 

 talon is much reduced, especially in m^, but retains its basin shape, 

 formed by the hypo- and ento-conids ; the hypoconulid is lost. In the 



' Teitiary Verlebrata, p. 289. 




310 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



skull we observe the loug, narrow cranium, which has but small 

 cerebral capacity, Avith very marked post orbital constriction, prom- 

 inent sagittal and occipital crests and long zygomatic arches. The 

 roof of the cranium and that of the face lie in nearly the same plane ; 

 the face is short and tapering ; the anterior nares are terminal in 

 position and overhung by the tips of the nasals, which project beyond 

 the premaxillaries. The mandible is long and slender, with very broad 

 ascending ramus and high, recurved and blunt coronoid process; 

 the masseteric fossa is very large and deep and the angular process 

 long and prominent. 



The neck is of moderate length, the lumbar vertebrie stout, with 

 well developed anapophyses, and the tail long. The astragalus is 

 nearly flat in some species, moderately grooved in others; it has a 

 long neck, with rounded, narrow head, which displays a small facet 

 for the cuboid. The calcaneura has a long and slender tuber calcis 

 and a small sustentaculum, and above the distal end is considerably 

 expanded, as in the plantigrade carnivores. The cuboid is very high 

 and narrow ; the calcaneal facet is transverse and the astragalar nar- 

 row and oblique. The carpus is low and the scaphoid and lunar 

 separate. 



Slaopa is very abundantly represented in the Wasatch and 

 Bridger, not less than thirteen species having been described, rang- 

 ing in size from a weasel to a fox. S. rapax Leidy, S. (Lhnnocyon) 

 verus Marsh and S. (Limiiocyon) agilis Marsh, S. (Sfypolophns) jmn- 

 gens Cope, S. {Stypolophiis) insectivorus Cope, S. {Stypolophus) 

 brevicalcaratus Cope and S. (Triacodon, Stypolophiis) acideatus Cope, 

 are from the Bridger; S. (Prototoimis, Stypolophus) viverrmits Coj)e, 

 S. (Profotomus, Stypolophus) secnudarius Cope, S. (Prototomus, 

 Stypolophus) mulilcuspis Cope, S. (Prototomns, Stypolophus) stren- 

 tms Cope and S. (Stypolophus) hiaiis Cope, are from the Wasatch, 

 while S. u'hitke Cope (Stypolophus strenuus Cope, in part, Stypolo- 

 phus whitice Cope), has been found in the Wasatch and Wind River 

 beds. Sinopa eximia^ Leidy probably does not belong to this genus 

 and Schlosser has referred it to the Primates. Livinocyon riparius^ 

 Marsh likewise must be removed from the genus, as in it m^ and * 

 are described as being tubercular. 



* Cont. to Ext. Vert. Fauna of Western Territories p. 118. 

 2 Am. Journ. of Sci. and Arts, 3rd Sen, Vol. IV, p. 203. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



PROVIVEERAi Rutimeyer. 



This genus is very similar to Sviopa, differing from it only in the 

 structure of the last upper premolar (P4) which is as simply con- 

 structed as in Deltatherium and consists of a triangular, trenchant 

 protocone, a large, conical deuterocone, with no trace of either tri- 

 tocone or protostyle. To this European genus may be provisionally 

 referred a si^ecies from the Bridger beds, ? P. americamis sp. nov. 

 (Syn. Sinopa rapax Osborn, Scott and Speir^ non Leidy) which dif- 

 fers from its European congener merely in size, so far as the very 

 imperfect specimen will admit of comparison. The specimen con- 

 sists only of a jaw fragment containing P3 ^"d ^ which may possibly 

 represent a Bridger species of Didelphodus, but the general fact es of 

 the tooth agrees better with Proviverra. The dimensions of P4 are: 

 aut.-post. diameter, 7 mm., transverse, 7 mm. 



DIDELPH0DUS3 Cope. 

 Syn. Dellatheriuvi Cope, in part. 



This genus resembles Proviverra in the structure of the teeth, 

 especially of TU, but appears to have lost Pi, giving the formula 

 II Ct P'I M|. From Sinopa it differs in the simple canine-like 

 shape of P2, the presence of a deuterocone on P3 and of a corre- 

 sponding element on p*, and the less reduction of ^3. An impor- 

 tant difference from both genera consists in the much less pro- 

 nounced development of the posterior cutting crest on the upper 

 molars. The premolars are all notably high and acute. 



One species : D. (Deltatherium) absaroka; Cope. Wasatch. 



PAL.ffiONICTID^. 



Syn. Ambloctonida Cope. 



Superior molars without or with only rudimentary posterior cut- 

 ting ridge; para- and metacones very high and pointed and well 

 separated ; inferior molars with reduced talon and well developed 

 metaconid ; proto- and paraconids enlarged, flattened and forming 

 an efficient sectorial blade. Face much shortened. 



PAL.aSONICTIS-' de Blainville. 



The discovery of this genus by Wortman in the Wasatch beds in 

 1891 is one of very great interest and importance, both geologically 



' Eiicaiie Saugtrthiere, p. 80. 



* Pal. Rept. of the Princeton Scientific Expedition of 1877, p. 18. 

 3 Amer. Naturalist, 1882, p. 463. 



* O^teographie, Viverra, p. 76. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and morphologically. The advance sheets of Osborn and Wortnian's 

 paper enable me to give a brief account of it here. The dental 

 formula is If Cx PI M?. The superior premolars increase regu- 

 larly in size from before backward. ^ is small, simple and one- 

 rooted ; P2 is also small and has an incipient deuterocone, repre- 

 sented by an elevated and crenulate internal cingulum ; on Pa a"^ 4 

 the deuterocone is distinct and supported on a separate fang ; p* has 

 three external cusj^s, a high protocoue, a smaller tritocone which 

 forms a trenchant heel, and a small protostyle ; the tooth thus has 

 all the elements of the feline sectorial. M^ is large and strictly tri- 

 gonodont ; the cusps are all very high and. acute, the para- and 

 metacones show no tendency to coalesce and there is no posterior 

 trenchant crest given off from the metacone. ^2 is very small, a 

 mere oval rudiment, with no distinguishable elements. The ante- 

 rior lower premolars all have a compressed, pointed and trenchant 

 protocouid and a small posterior basal cusp, and p^ has an anterior 

 cusp in addition. In the molars the proto- and paraconids are flat- 

 tened, brought into nearly the same antero-posterior line and form 

 an efficient shearing blade, but retaining a well developed meta- 

 conid ; the talon is small and basin-shaped and on m^ ver}' much 

 reduced. 



The cranium is long and the face much shortened ; the orbits are 

 large and situated far forward ; the anterior nares are very large 

 and the muzzle abruptly truncated. The mandible has a short, 

 deep and massive horizontal ramus and a very broad ascending 

 ramus, which terminates in a blunt coronoid ; the chin is abruptly 

 rounded and the symphysis short. The physiognomy of this skull 

 is strikingly feline in character. 



One American species : P. oceidentalis Osborn : Wasatch. 



AMBLOCTONUSi Cope. 



The only known specimens of this genus are so much mutilated 

 that an accurate account of it cannot be given. According to 

 Osborn- the dental formula is PI MJ. The external upper incisor 

 is much enlarged and the canines are of great size. £4 is triangular 

 in shape, with very large deuterocone, a trenchant tritocone and a 

 small protostyle. ^ differs from that of Palceonictis in the reduction 



1 Syst. Cat. Vert. Eocene of New Mexico, U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of 100th 

 Men, 1875, p. 7. 

 - Loc. cit. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



of the protocone, the close approximation of the para- and meta- 

 cones and the elevation at the postero-external angle of the crown, 

 simulating the trenchant ridge of the Proviverricke and Hycenodon- 

 tidce. This t(joth strongly suggests a doubt as to the propriety of 

 referring this genus to the present family, which cannot be decided 

 until more perfect specimens are obtained. I'* is very nearly molari- 

 form, but does not appear to have a deuteroconid. The composition 

 of m^ cannot be deternn'ned, while ni^ appears to have lost the nieta- 

 conid and the talon is rudimentary or absent. 

 One species : A. si nostis Cope: Wasatch. 



PATRIOFELISi Leidy. 

 Syn. Limnofelis'- Marsh, in part, Oreocyon^ Marsh. 



Only the inferior dentition is known ; the dental formula appears 

 to be : I2, Ct P^ M^. The premolars are very massive and hysena- 

 like, and have a posterior basal cusp. F* is the largest of all the 

 cheek-teeth (i. e. in the type species) and is nearly molariform. M^ 

 appears to have a large sectorial blade and a talon, and ni^, which is 

 larger, to have neither metaconid nor talon. The mandible is quite 

 feline in shape, but the horizontal ramus is relatively heavier and 

 the masseteric fossa not so deep ; the ascending ramus is not so broad 

 as in Palceonidis, indicating a shorter cranium and zygomatic arches. 



The type species is P. ulla Leidy (Limnofelis, Oreocyon latldens 

 Marsh) from the Bridger. A second species, also from the Bridger, 

 is referred to this genus provisionally, ?P. leidyanus Wortman, but 

 the compressed character of the teeth renders the reference very 

 doubtful. 



HY-iENODONTID^. 



Syn. Oxyaiiid(€ Cope. 



Para- and metacones of superior molars connate or indistinguish- 

 ably fused, and posterior trenchant blade very large; protocone 

 reduced or absent. Talon of inferior molars and metaconid reduced 

 or absent on one or more teeth ; proto- and paraconids enlarged and 

 flattened forming a shearing blade. 



The members of this family form one of the most aberrant of the 

 creodont groups and display a great many stages in the reduction 



^ Proc. Acid. Nat. Sci.. 1S71», p. lu. 



2 Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, 3rd Ser., Vol. IV, 1872, p. 203. 



'Loc. cit., p. 4U6. 



21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and simplification of the molar teeth, so that the family definition can 

 be framed only in the most general terras. On the other hand, the 

 succession of the genera is so close and the steps of change so 

 gradual, that it seems impracticable to subdivide the group unless 

 each genus be given family rank. The connection of this group 

 with the Proviverridce is very close and the line of separation between 

 them arbitrary rather than natural. 



OXY^NAi Cope. 



II Ct Pf M|. The incisors are small, except h which is very 

 large and separated by a diastema from the great tusk-like canine. 

 Pj is small and single rooted ; the other premolars increase in size 

 and complexity posteriorly ; P2^"^ 3 have developed the deutero- 

 cone, and P4 is a well develojDcd sectorial, with very large deutero- 

 cone and trenchant tritocone, which with the protocone forms a very 

 effective shearing blade, nearly as large as the first molar. Mj is the 

 exaggeration of a condition already found in Sinopa and its allies; 

 the protocone is somewhat reduced, the para- and metacones very 

 closely approximated and the posterior cutting crest greatly en- 

 larged, forming a sectorial blade. ^2 is transversely extended and 

 very short antero-posteriorly ; it appears to consist of a small para- 

 cone and very broad protocone. In the lower jaw p^ is one rooted ; 

 p2 and 3 have high protoconids and low, pointed talons ; p* is similar, 

 but larger and the heel is trenchant. The molars consist of a 

 sectorial blade, formed by the enlarged and flattened proto- and 

 paraconids, with a well developed metaconid ; the talon is low, 

 small and basin-like, with continuous margin. The relative size of 

 the molars varies ; in some cases mi is the larger and in others rn^. 



The researches of Cope, and latterly those of Osborn and AVort- 

 man, have given us almost a full account of the skeleton of this 

 curious genus. The skull is quite feline in appearance, with short 

 face, broad and truncate muzzle and large anterior nares, the 

 zygomatic arches are prominent, heavy and moderately long, and 

 the jugal sends up a strong post-orbital process, partially enclosing 

 the orbit. There is a long and prominent sagittal crest and the 

 cranial walls are thick. 



The posterior thoracic and lumbar vertebne display the creodont 

 type of zygapophyses, and the tail is long and stout. 



1 Rep. Vert. Foss. N. M., U. S. Geog. Surv. W. of lOllth Mer., 1874, p. U. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Tlie humerus has tuberosities of no great size, but the deltoid 

 ridge is remarkably long and prominent; tlie trochlea is low but 

 broad and has a rounded surface for the capitellum of the radius ; 

 the entepicondyle is relatively small, but retains the foramen. The 

 head of the radius is discoidal and the distal end is expanded and 

 bears a carpal facet which is very feline in shape. The distal end 

 of the ulna has also very much the same form as in the cats. The 

 carpus is low and broad, with separate scaphoid, lunar and central 

 elements. The metacarpals, five in number, are strikingly small and 

 weak, as compared with the size of the skull and teeth ; they are, 

 however, interlocked in the same elaborate manner as in the cats. 

 The phalanges are depressed and the unguals small, compressed and 

 claw-like, but cleft at the free end. 



The pelvis differs from that of the typical creodonts in having 

 an expanded ilium and wide, flattened ischium. The fenuir has a 

 wide and flat prox/mal end, and prominent first trochanter, but the 

 digital fossa is small and shallow. The tibia has abroad, overhang- 

 ing head and the shaft is deeply grooved on its posterior face ; the 

 astragalar surface is nearly flat and the inner malleolus prominent. 

 The astragalus has a very slightly grooved trochlea, large neck 

 and convex head, which is directed obliquely inward; distally there 

 is a facet for the cuboid. The calcaneum is short and heavy and 

 especially remarkable for the great obliquity of thecuboidal surface. 

 The navicular is broad and very shallow and is obliquely placed 

 with reference to the axis of the foot. The cuboid is a remarkable 

 bone and its shape is characteristic of the entire family ; the prox- 

 imal surface is unequally divided between a large surface for the 

 calcaneum and a smaller one for the astragalus which meet at right 

 angles; this gives the cuboid a very oblique position and causes the 

 axes of this bone and of the navicular to form an acute angle, 

 instead of being parallel. This divergence is to some extent compen- 

 sated by the very large wedge-shaped ectocuneiform. The position 

 of the tarsals here de-cribed produces a divergent, radi^iting arrange- 

 ment of the metatarsals, which like the metacarpals, are all j)resent, 

 but are weak and slender. 



Three species: 0. forcipata Cope, 0. hipina Co\)e and 0. morsi- 

 tans Cope. Wasatch. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



PROTOPSALIS Cope.i 

 Syn. ? Limnofclis^ Marsh. 



The name Limnofelis is of older date than Protopsalis, but was 

 founded upon such imperfect specimens that no generic characters 

 can he derived from them. The proliability that both names refer 

 to the same thing is given by the fact that both are very large 

 animals, referable to the Hijceiwdoiitidce and occurring in the 

 Bridger beds. 



The number of teeth in this genus is not known ; an anterior lower 

 molar (mi ?) resembles that of Oxycena, having a metaconid and. 

 fairly large basin-shaped heel; ni^ ? however, is strikingly like the 

 inferior sectorial of the cats, except for the greater height and nar- 

 rowness of tlie protoconid ; the metaconid has disappeared and the 

 talon is a minute rudiment. The skeleton, so far as ic is known, 

 closely resembles that of Oxycena, but the bones are much larger, 

 more massive and with more prominent processes for muscular 

 attachment. The cuboid is very peculiar; the calcaneal surface is 

 even larger and more oblique than in Oxycena and is slightly con- 

 vex, while the astragalar facet, which in the Wasatch genus is nearly 

 plane, is in Protopsalis decidedly concave from before backward. 

 The metapodials are relatively stouter than in Oxyceiia. 



One species: P. tigrinus Cope {Syn. '^ Limnofelis ferox Marsh). 

 Bridger. 



HEMIPSAL0D0N3 Cope. 



This, the largest of knowm creodonts, is nearly allied to Pterodon, 

 but distinguishable from it by the character of m^, which in the 

 latter has a rudimentary trenchant heel, but in the former the talon 

 is larger and basin-shaped, with continuous margin, as in Oxycena ; 

 the metaconid is probably absent. This is the only molar the con- 

 struction of which is known, but the number of teeth in the mandible 

 is known to be : I3 Ct P* M3. The canine is exceedingly power- 

 ful and the jaw very massive ; the chin is deep and abruptly rounded 

 and the symphysis very long, extending to p*. The femur is very 

 like that of Protopsalis, but has a much longer neck and small 

 hemispheric-al head ; the second and third trochanters are not very 

 prominent and the latter is placed low down on the shaft ; the 



1 Amer Naturnlist. 1S80. p. 74o. 



* Am. Joiirn. Sci. an.i Arts, Srd Ser., Vol. IV, 1872, p. 202. 



* Amer. Naturalist, I880, p. Id3. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



rotiilar trochlea is short and narrow and the condyles differ from 

 those usually found among creodonts in being closer together, of 

 more unequal size and projecting more strongly backward. 



One species : H. grandis Cope, from the White River beds of the 

 Cypress Hills, N. W. Territory, Canada. 



HY.ffiNODON Laiser & Parieu. 



The dental formula of this genus is: If CI PI M§. The upper 

 premolars have high, acute and simple crowns, except Pj, which has 

 both deutero- and tritocones, though they are consideralily reduced, 

 as compared with those in Pterodon and Oxycena. The upper 

 molars are greatly simplified by the entire loss of the protocone and 

 the fusion of the para- and metacones, though they can still be dis- 

 tinguished on mj ; the posterior crest, on the other hand, is greatly 

 developed and thus these teeth form effective sectorials; ;^2 is con- 

 siderably the larger of the two. The inferior premolars are likewise 

 simple, having, in addition to the very high and acute protoconid, 

 a more or less well developed posterior cusp, m^ is much the 

 sm-.dlest of the series, and consists of proto- and paraconids, with a 

 rudimentary talon, the metaconid having disappeared ; in m* the 

 talon is still further reduced; the proto- and paraconids form a 

 trenchant blade; m^ is still larger and has no trace of the talon ; it 

 closely resembles m' of the cats. 



The skull is typically creodont, with some remarkable specializa- 

 tions. The cranium is long, narrow, of small capacity and with 

 very marked post-orbital constriction ; the face is rather short and 

 the large orl)its placed very far forward ; the upper contour of the 

 skull is nearly straight, parietals and nasals lying in nearly the same 

 plane. The occiput is low and broad, with small ])aroecipital pro- 

 cesses closely applied to the still smaller paramastoids. The 

 frontals enclose large sinuses. The nasal chamber is very high and 

 in consequence the mesethmoid is even larger than in the carnivo- 

 rous marsupials; the vomer is likewise very long and high and the 

 ethmo-turbinals are well developed and complexly folded. The 

 jugal U rather slender and is applied to the maxillary quite close to 

 the level of the molars. The palate is very remarkable ; the pala- 

 tines are much elongated and in contact almost throughout their 

 length, forming a tube, which opens fiir back, as a narrow slit, 

 between the hinder end of the palatines and pterygoids; in one spe- 

 cies (IT. leptocephalus) the opening is pushed still farther back by 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



the junction of the pterygoid plates of the alisphenoids. The cra- 

 nial foramina are very miicli as in the dogs, but there appears to be 

 one important and constant difference between the American and 

 European species of the genus, in that the latter possess an alisphe- 

 noid canal, which the former have not. In the American forms the 

 horizontal ramus of the mandible is long and slender, gradually 

 deepening posteriorly, and forming a very long symphysis with its 

 fellow ; the coronoid is more or less triangular in shape and the con- 

 dyle is placed very low ; the angle terminates in a short hook. 



The skeleton, which is very completely known, differs from that 

 of Oxycena only in details and need not be described here, far- 

 ther than to mention the large articulation between the fibula and 

 the calcaneum. The American hviienodonts have the scaphoid, 

 lunar and central bones all sepai'ate, while in the European species 

 they are coalesced. 



Four American species of Hyccnodon have been described : H. 

 horridiis Leidy, H. crucians Leidy, H. cruenins Leidy, H. lepto- 

 cephalus Scott, all from the White River. 



MIACID^ Cope. 



Fourth upper premolar and first lower molar forming the single 

 pair of sectorials ; superior molars tritubercular, inferior molars, 

 except m', also tubercular. 



The members of this family which form the connecting link 

 between the Creodonta and the Carnivora, so far at least as their 

 dentition is concerned, are, unfortunately, as yet very imperfectly 

 known, no complete skull or well preserved feet having been- 

 discovered. 



DIDYMICTISi Cope. 



I| Ct P4 Ml. The anterior upper premolars are simple, com- 

 pressed and trenchant cones, without accessory cusps, but ]\ is a 

 fully developed sectorial, the proto- and tritocones forming the 

 blade ; the protostyle, which occurs in the cats and viverriues, is also 

 indicated. ^ is quite large, with the three primary cusps present, 

 though the metacone is much reduced and the metaconule has dis- 

 appeared, and there is no hypocone ; the antero-external angle ol 

 the crown is greatly extended and there is a very broad cingulum. 



1 Sy^t. Cat. Vert. Eocene N. M., U. S. Geogr. Surv. W. KlOth Mer., 1875, 

 p.ll. 




I 



1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



M^ is much smaller than m, and in some species is greatly reduced ; it 

 is of simple tritubercular pattern, without hypocoue orconules. The 

 lower premolars are much compressed and have posterior cusps. 

 Mj has an extremely high trigonid which, however, forms but a 

 primitive sectorial blade, as the paraconid retains its internal posi- 

 tion and the protoconid is but little enlarged, except in height, con- 

 spicuously exceeding in this respect the other two cusps which are 

 of nearly equal size. Consequent on this arrangement the shear- 

 ing surface is anterior rather than external ; the talon is low and 

 basin-shaped. Mj is very much smaller than m^ and has a tubercu- 

 lar crown, but, as Cope has pointed out, this tooth is clearly derived 

 from a tuberculo-sectorial, all the elements of the trigonid beint^ 

 still preserved as small but acute cusps, which rise slightly above 

 the level of the talon. 



The skull, so far as it is known, is of the ordinary creodont type, 

 with short tapering face, orbits far forward and deep postorbital 

 constriction. The mandible has a long and narrow horizontal 

 ramus, with very narrow symphyseal portion. The lumbar vertebra? 

 have the creodont type of zygapophyses ; the metapophyses and 

 anapophyses are small. The humerus has small tuberosities, a wide 

 bicipital groove and very prominent deltoid ridge ; an entepicondy- 

 lar foramen is present. The ulna has the very high olecranon so 

 general among creodonts; the sigmoid notch is deep, but the 

 humeral facet small; the shaft is very broad. The radius has a 

 transversely oval head, which occupies most of the humeral trochlea. 

 The carpus is very low, the scaphoid and lunar separate, and the 

 unciform shaped as in the viverrines (e. g., Arctietis). The pollex 

 is short and relatively rather stout, the other metacarpals much 

 more slender; though proportionately much weaker, the general 

 character of the metacarpals and phalanges is quite like that in the 

 viverrines, and the interlocking of the metacarpals is similar, 

 , No. II touching the magnum and No. Ill the unciform though 

 . not by extended surfaces. The ungual phalanges are compressed and 

 sharp and very like those of Cynogale, without the cleft at the tips 

 which occurs in nearly all creodonts. 



The ilium is short and prismatic. The femur has a slender com- 

 pressed shaft and a very large 2nd and small but distinct 8rd tro- 

 chanter. The tibia is long and slender, with gentle sigmoid curva- 

 ture; the astragalar surface is but obscurely grooved and the large 

 malleolar process has an articular surface upon the distal end. The 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



astragalus in some species is slightly grooved, in others not at all ; 

 the neck is long, the head narrow and not articulating with the 

 cuboid. The calcaneum is short and stout, with very small sustenta- 

 culum and prominent process for the cubo-calcaneal ligament. The 

 cuboid is like that of Cynogale, but is without the distinct excava- 

 tion for the navicular. The metatarsals, probably five in number, 

 are very slender and interlocked much as in the viverrines. 



Eight species: D. haydenianiis Cope arid D. primusCope, are from 

 the Puerco ; D. protenus Cope, D. leptomylus Cope, D. dawkinsianus 

 Cope, D. ynassetericus Cope and D. nirtldens Cope, are from the 

 Wasatch, while D. altidens Cope is from the Wasatch and Bridget. 



MIACISi Cope. 

 Syn. ? Vulpavus^ Marsh, Uintacyor^ Leidy. 



Vulpavus is an older name than Miacis, but being founded solely 

 upon the upper tubercular molars, it cannot be used, for the exact 

 generic reference of the tubercular molars is at present impractic- 

 able. 



The dental formula of the mandible is: I3 Ct P? M3. The in- 

 cisors are closely crowded together and the second one is pushed back 

 out of the line of the other two. P^ is single rooted and in some 

 species is isolated by a diastema both in front of and behind it, in 

 others the dental series is uninterrupted. In mi the trigonid is of 

 moderate height, and through the flattening of the protoconid a more 

 efficient sectorial blade is formed than in Dldyniictis ; the talon is. 

 basin-like, with distinct hypo- and entoconids. M^ is a " tuber- 

 cular " molar, but retains all the elements of mi, M^ is very small 

 and is sometimes implanted by one fang, sometimes by two. 



The mandible, the only known portion of the skull, varies from 

 the long and slender jaw of il/. edax to the relatively short, deep and 

 thick jaw of J/, bathygnathus, with its steeply inclined and abruptly 

 rounded chin ; the masseteric fossa is deep and the angular process 

 a short hook.. A few skeletal fragments of 31. bathygjiathus have 

 been found, but as the relations of that species to the others, are 

 very far from clear, the description of these will be omitted. 



Six species : M. parvivorus Cope, M. ( Uintacyon) edax Leidy, M. 

 ( Uintacyon) vorax Leidy, and M. bathygnathus Scott, are from the 

 Bridger horizon. M. canavns Cope has been found in the Wasatch 



1 Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1S72, p. 470. 



' Am. Journ. Soc. and Arts, 3rd Ser., Vol. TI, 1871, p. 124. 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1872, [1873], p. 277. 




Proc..\cad.Nat.Sci.Phila. 1892. 



Plate XI 



Oeo 6.HoxTiB*SonB LitKPhjlo 



CHAPMAN,! J RAIN OF GORILLA. 





Proc.Acad.Nat.Sci.Phila. 1892. 



Plate Xn 



i>eo.3 Ham8&8ons Lith.Phila 



G HAPMAN , B RAI N O F G O III LL A . 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1892. 



PL. XIII. 



-sp 



Pilibrj, del. 



PILSBRY, ANATOMY OF SAGDA, CYSTICOPSIS, ETC. 





1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



and Wind River, and M. brevirostris only in the latter beds. A 

 very doubtful species is the ? M. {J. Amphicyoii) vulpimcs Scott and 

 Osborn, from the Uinta Eocene, which is too imperfectly known for 

 certain reference. 



VIVERRAVUSi Marsh, 



This genus is very inadequately known, but appears to differ from 

 the other members of the family in the mandibular formula : Pg 

 Ms- M2 and ^ are tubercular, but the trigonid retains all three cusps and 

 rises considerably above the level of the talon. The premolars are 

 much compressed and the mandible long and slender. 



Three species : V. gracilis Marsh : ? V. nitidiis Marsh, V. (Liynno- 

 cyoii) riparius Marsh : Bridger. 



THIN0CY0N2 Marsh. 



Not improbably this genus is identical with the preceding one. 

 The mandibular formula is given as: I^ Cx Pa M^ ; m^ and « are 

 tubercular and the angle of the mandible is said to be reflected. 



One species : T. velox Marsh, Bridger. 



Genera Incert^ Sedis. 



Under this head will be discussed a number of forms which have 

 been referred to the Creodonta, but the nature of which is very pro- 

 blematical. 



MIOCL^NUSs Cope. 



In his latest paper on the Puerco fauna. Cope refers to this genus 

 no less than twenty-six species, which range in size from that of a 

 black bear to that of a squirrel. The presence in one horizon and 

 locality of so many species of a single genus and with so great a 

 range of size, is, on the face of it, highly improbable, and I believe 

 the genus, as at present constituted, to be an unnatural one. For 

 structural reasons, I have subdivided the group into many genera, 

 some of which have been described above, and others remain to be 

 mentioned. The name Mioclcenus should be restricted to those forms 

 which agree with the type species, M. turgidus, in the extremely 

 broad, low and massive premolars, which equal or exceed the molars 

 in size ; these are : M. turgidus Cope, M. opisthacus Cope, M. zitte- 



1 Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, 2nd Ser., Vol. IV, 1872, p. 127. 



^Loc. cit., p. 204. 



3Amer. Naturalist, 1881, p. 830. 



22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



lianus Cope and M. turgidunculus Cope, all from the Puerco. The 

 systematic position of the genus is very doubtful, for such premolars 

 are quite unknown among the creodonts, and are entirely like those 

 of the condylarthrous family, Perijjtychidce. Indeed, 31. opisthacus 

 was at one time referred to Hemithlceus^. On the other hand, the 

 structure of the molars is quite different from that of any of the 

 typical Condylarthra, and if, as Schlosser has suggested, it becomes 

 necessary to refer MioclcBnus to that group, it will form a very dis- 

 tinct family of the order. 



PKOTOGONODON gen. nov. 

 Syn. Mioclcenus Cope, in part. 



To this genus I refer as a type species the M. pentactis which Cope 

 provisionally incorporated with Mioclcemis, though directing atten- 

 tion to the resemblance of its inferior molars (superior unknown) to 

 those of the phenacodont Protogonia, from which it differs in the 

 simplicity of p*, which has no deuteroconid. Certain specimens, how- 

 ever, show rudimentary indications of it. I think there can be no 

 doubt that this genus is referable to the Phenacodontldce. A second 

 species, P. (Miockenus) lydekkerianus, the structure of p* in which is 

 not known, probably belongs to the same genus. Puerco. 



PARADOXODON gen. nov. 

 Syn. Chriacus Cope, in part. 



This curious form, the systematic position of which is altogether 

 uncertain, is known only from inferior molars, though the alveoli of 

 the premolars indicate that these teeth were extremely compressed 

 and recall in their proportions those of the primitive artiodactyls; 

 the molars also suggest relationship to that group. The latter 

 increase in size from the first to the third and the trigonid rises very 

 little above the talon. In nTi the proto- and metaconids are of 

 about the same size and on the some transverse line; they are both 

 compressed and the protoconid shows a tendency to become cres- 

 centic ; the small paraconid is placed immediately in front of the 

 metaconid from which it is sejiarated by a slight notch, while a low 

 ridge connects it with the protoconid ; the hypoconid is also some- 

 what crescentic, the entoconid lower and more conical. In m^ the 

 trigonid is curiously asymmetrical, which is caused by the backward 

 inclination of the metaconid, the larger size of the paraconid than 



1 Tert. Vert., p. 407. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



in ml and the greater prominence of the ridge connecting this ele- 

 ment with the protoconid ; the hypoconid is somewhat crescentic 

 and the entoconid reduced, the valley opening inward in advance 

 of that cusp ; the hypoconulid is much enlarged and carried on a 

 distinct fang. It would require but relatively little alteration to 

 convert this tooth into one of true selenodont pattern. 



One species : P. ( Chriacus) rutimeyeranus Cope. Puerco. 



CARCINODON gen. nov. 

 Syn. Miochrnus Cope, in part. 



This genus is almost certainly unguiculate, but whether creodont 

 or insectivorous is not clear, the character of the lower molar teeth 

 somewhat resembling those of the Wasatch Diacodon. P^ and * 

 have high and pointed protoconids and minute posterior basal cusps. 

 The inferior molars increase in size posteriorly and when viewed 

 from the side, the trigonid is seen to curve forward and the talon 

 backward, which gives the crown a claw-like shape. The proto- and 

 metaconids are joined for most of their height and of equal size, 

 and the small but elevated paraconid is placed close to the latter, 

 but connected with the former by a crest ; the talon is a deep basin, 

 with elevated margin, upon which the hypo- and entoconids and 

 the hypoconulids appear as small tubercles. In m^ these elements, 

 especially the latter, are enlarged. 



One species : C. (Miodcenus) jilholianus Cope. Puerco. 



The species, Miockenas {Deltatheriuvi) interruptus Cope, 31. min- 

 imus Cope and M. (Hyopsodus) acolytus Cope should, for reasons 

 already stated, be removed from that genus, but are too imperfectly 

 known for proper reference. The latter (31. acolytus) may possibly 

 be a forerunner of the Wasatch artiodactyl, Pantolestes. 



Another group of problematical genera is that constituted by 

 Onychodectes^ Cope, Conoryctes' Cope and Hemiganus^ Cope, which 

 are distinguished, among other things, by the remarkable thinness of 

 the enamel which covers the molars. It is probable that these forms 

 should be removed from the creodonts and as Cope has suggested, 

 brought into relation with the tillodonts. 



1 Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, Vol. XVI, Pt. II, p. 317. 



2 Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1881, p. 486. 



3 Amer. Naturalist, 1882, p. 831. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



October 4. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 



"The Batrachia and Reptilia of North "Western Texas," by E. D. 

 Cope. 



" On a Collection of Batrachia and Reptilia from Washington and 

 British Columbia," by E. D. Cope. 



" Xotes on a Collection of Shells from the State of Tabasco, 

 Mexico," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Geology of the Ides of Shoals. — Mr. Theodore D. Rand 

 remarked that Hitchcock, in his Geology of Kew Hampshire, 

 devotes but a few lines to these islands, stating that their geology 

 has been neglected. 



They are evidently the remains of a single island eroded by the 

 Atlantic Ocean and are composed of gueissoid rocks with a number 

 of trap dykes. 



The rock is chiefly a coarse orthoclase-muscovite gneiss, of which 

 the orthoclase constitutes probably eighty per cent, the quartz less 

 than twenty and the muscovite probably not over two per cent. 

 Inter-stratified in this coarse gneiss is a fine-grained variety contain- 

 ing much more mica and usually of a dark gray color. In some 

 places this contains serpentine veins of orthoclase, in this as well as 

 in other respects resembling our Manayunk schists and gneisses. 

 Garnets, while not entirely absent, are quite rare, and the rock very 

 rarely approaches a schist. The strike is pretty uniform, about N. 

 70 E., while the dip varies, though usually 70° to 90° N. W. 

 Through these rocks pass numerous joints, many of them very 

 irregular. Along these joint-planes erosion has taken place leav- 

 ing a very rough and iri-egular surface, the remaining rock being 

 hard and not much disintegrated. 



Crossing the islands in a general northeast and southwest direc- 

 tion are trap dykes of varying width, from one to ten feet. These 

 form special lines of erosion, and are invariably lower than the 

 adjacent gneiss, though apparently much harder. All exposed 

 masses seem fresh and undecomposed. 



Most remarkable among these is one at the southeast end of Star 

 Island. It is about six feet across and extends at an acute angle 

 from the south to the east shore. Its strike is N. 35 E., its dip 85° 

 to 90° X. W., with two sets of joints, one parallel to the dip, the 

 other nearly coincident with the stratification of the adjacent gneiss. 

 At each end the dyke was deeply eroded and the adjacent gneiss in 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



great masses had fallen in, forming at one point one of the places 

 of historical interest known as Betty Moody's Cave. The length 

 of this dyke from shore to shore is probably five hundred feet, but 

 of this about two hundred feet have been eroded to sea level. In 

 the middle the trap is about ten feet below the gneiss walls ; to the 

 south it descends by a series of steps quite abruptly and between 

 vertical walls of the gneiss probably fifty feet to the' sea. 



The present erosion continuing, this southeast end of the island 

 will be cut off entirely and form a separate island of the group. 

 At other points the same action may be seen. 



Two phenomena were observed for which no easy explanation 

 offers. The dark, fine-grained gneiss was usually rather regularly 

 inter-stratified in the more abundant coarse granitoid gneiss, but at 

 a number of points it was observed abutting upon the gneiss in the 

 direction of the strike, but without the slightest evidence of a fault. 

 At one point on Appledore Island there was a stratum of the dark 

 variety, thirty feet wide ; suddenly, and almost at a right angle, 

 tw^enty feet of this were replaced by the coarse granitoid rock, while 

 the remaining ten feet went on as before. A clue to the explanation 

 was seen on Appledore, where a stratum of the fine-grained was 

 separated from a larger mass of the same of darker color by a foot 

 or two of the coarse feldspathic rock, which also bounded it on the 

 further side. This stratum had, in about forty feet, five constric- 

 tions, narrowing it from three feet or more to hardly as many inches 

 in one place. 



The other feature was a form of erosion which he had never before 

 seen. On the horizontal or slightly inclined surfaces of the nearly 

 vertical, fine-grained gneiss were numerous holes, from the size of a 

 small i^ea to that of a cherry. The gneiss was hard and undecom- 

 posed. These pits were roughly globular and were generally larger 

 below than at the opening. They appeared to enlarge and coalesce, 

 thus breaking dow'n the rock, bearing a slight resemblance, on a very 

 small scale, to the pot holes of a river bottom. These were high 

 above the sea. They appeared somewhat as if a mineral, like gar- 

 net, had weathered out, but there are no such minerals in the rock, 

 and the holes show no evidence of such ; they are quite rough on the 

 inside and hence have not been bored. Their position is such that 

 only ocean spray and rain water could reach them. They are quite 

 abundant. 



On the Permanent and Temporary Dentitions of certain Three-toed 

 Horses. — Professor Cope described the changes in the characters of 

 the superior molars of Protohippus placidus Leidy, resulting from 

 age and wear, and the characters of the dentition of colts of Proto- 

 hippus and Hippotkerium. He pointed out that in stages of wear 

 up to middle life P. placidus is the Hippotherium gratum of Leidy, 

 and that then the protocone fuses with the paraconule, and the ani- 

 mal becomes a Protohippus. He had not observed this to take 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



place in any other species referred to Hippotherium. In both these 

 stages the enamel borders of the lakes are more or less plicate, and 

 the posterior loop of the anterior lake is present. With further 

 wear the plications, including the loop, disappear, when the molars 

 agree in their characters with Protohippus parvulus Marsh. These 

 observations were based on specimens from the Loup Fork beds 

 of Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado and Texas, where the species is 

 abundant. 



The speaker exhibited the molar dentitions of three colts from 

 Wyoming and Texas, and a part of one from Colorado, all from the 

 Loup Fork beds. He showed that these represent the genera 

 Merychippus, Parahippus, Hyjjohippnis, and Ayiehipjms of Leidy, 

 and six species of the same author. He thought it probable that 

 A7ichippus belongs to a colt of Hippotherium, and Parahippus and 

 Hypohippus to Protohippus, while he was not certain as to the 

 reference of the type of Merychippus (^M. insignis). He pointed 

 out that the characters of the individual temporary molars differ in 

 the different teeth of the series, and also differ at different stages of 

 wear. As with the permanent dentition, in some species the tem- 

 porary molars are always simple, while in others the enamel borders 

 are more complex. In the latter case the pattern becomes more 

 simple in some respects with prolonged wear. He v»'as able to 

 correlate the temporary and permanent dentitions of Protohippus 

 perditus Leidy with certainty, and those of P. pachyops Cope and 

 P. mirabilis Leidy with much probability. 



Professor Cope further pointed out that the temporary dentition 

 in these three-toed horses is more simple than that of the adult, in 

 some cases resembling very closely the permanent dentition of the 

 ancestral Anchitherium in molar structure. In this the horses 

 differ from the higher Artiodactyla, where the temporary molars 

 are equally complex or more so than the permanent molars. 



October 11. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Forty-three persons present. 



A Hyena and other Carnivora from Texas. — Prof. E. D. Cope 

 stated that he had during the past season while exploring the eastern 

 front of the Staked Plains of Texas with a party of the Geological 

 Survey of that State under Prof W. F. Cummins, obtained the 

 remains of some interesting Carnivora from the Blanco or Pliocene 

 beds. One of these is a hyena nearly allied to the genus Hycena, 

 and the first species of this family found in America. It, however, 

 differs from the typical genus in having a fourth premolar in the 

 lower jaw, and probably in having a shorter blade of the sectorial 

 tooth in the upper. He proposed the name Borophagus for the 

 genus, and for the species the name diversidens. The third premolar 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



is very large and robust, greatly exceeding the fourth in dimensions. 

 The latter is low and molariform ; the inferior canine is large. The 

 measurements are as follows. Transverse diameter of canine 

 alveolus 13 mm. ; do. of posterior alveolus of pm. iii, 13 mm. ; diam- 

 eters of pm. iv ; longitudinal 4 mm. ; anteroposterior 10 ; transverse 

 8. Diameters of pm. iii; longitudinal 17 mm.; anteroposterior 

 (partly restored) 28 ; transverse 15. The species is as large as the 

 spotted hyena and was the scavenger of the Blanco Fauna. 



Another interesting carnivore is a weasel of a new genus and 

 species, which it was proposed to call Canimartes cuviminsii after its 

 discoverer. The genus Canimartes is allied to Mustela, differing 

 only in the presence of two superior true molars. Metaconid of 

 inferior sectorial well developed ; talon of the same, trenchant. The 

 species is as large as the fisher. 



A third carnivore is a cat, provisionally referred to the genus 

 Felis under the name of i^. hillianus, after Prof. Robert T. Hill the 

 well-known geologist. This cat is about the size of the cheetah, and 

 has large canine teeth without grooves, and the feet are shorter than 

 in modern cats. 



On Hippa emerlta. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp exhibited dried 

 specimens of Hippja emerita Linn, and called attention to the method 

 of preparation. The animals, as soon as possible after capture and 

 while yet alive, were placed in a 50% solution of corrosive sublimate 

 and allowed to remain there for two days. They were then taken 

 out, washed for a moment in pure water, and then dried. The 

 advantage claimed was that the colors are very well preserved, 

 which would not be the case had they first been placed in alcohol. 

 He further called attention to the habits of this species, popularly 

 known as the " mole crab," or " sand flea " and spoke of the mistake 

 which some authors had made in stating that the animal burrowed 

 into the sand head first. A. F. VerrilP says: — "but this species 

 \^Hippa talpoidea'], burrows like a mole, head-first, instead of back- 

 W'ard." A. Heilprin' remarks: — "the animal \^Hippa emerita'] is a 

 remarkably rapid burrower, pushing itself head downward by means 

 of its anterior or thoracic feet." Dr. Sharp called attention to the 

 fact that the posterior pair of thoracic feet are bent upwards over 

 the posterior part of the carapace and resemble, on superficial 

 observation, antennte. This has probably caused the posterior part 

 of the animal to be mistaken for the anterior. He had carefully 

 observed the method of burrowing of these animals during the last 

 summer. The posterior feet were employed in loosening the sand 

 by their rapid motion ; the other limbs working forward push the 

 animal backw^ard into the sand, a method of progression common, 

 more or less, to all decapods. He further called attention to the 



1 Report of the Invertebrates of Vineyard Sound, etc., Washington, 1873, 

 338 and 339. 



2 The Animal Life of our Sea Shore, Philadelphia, 1888, p. 95. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ovoid shape of these animals, claiming that this was an advantage 

 in enabling them to escape from some of their enemies, the birds, 

 for example, finding the same difficulty in picking them u]) as is 

 encounted in using the forceps for the same purpose on the specimens. 



October 18. 



Mr. Chas. p. Perot in the chair. 



Forty-seven persons present. 



A New Marine Gasteropod from New Jersey. — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry 

 exhibited a series of specimens of a large species of Chrysodomus, 

 belonging to the subgenus Sipho, which he had received from Messrs 

 Witmer Stone, Chas. LeRoy Wheeler and John Ford. He stated 

 that the specimens were cast upon the shore during severe gales from 

 the south east, and Avere evidently derived from a submarine 

 stratum which was disturbed and broken up at those times. Asso- 

 ciated with the Chrysodomus were examples of Bxiccinum undatum, 

 XJrosalp'inx cinereus of extraordinary dimensions, and Chrysodovius 

 {Sipho) Stimpsonii, the latter being well developed and typical in 

 sculpture. The age of the deposit cannot definitely be settled at 

 present, but the evidence at hand indicates that it is post-pliocene. 



The following description of the new species was offered : 



Chrysodomus (Sipho) Stonei (PI. XW, figs. 1, 2, 3,). Shell 

 obese-fusiform, rather thick and solid, with strongly convex whorls 

 separated by deep sutures. Sculpture consisting of strong spiral 

 cords, equal on 3'oung specimens and on the spires of adults, but 

 which alternate with smaller intermediate cords on the body-whorl 

 in full grown specimens. A young shell, therefore, has about 20, an 

 adult 40 spirals upon the body-whorl. The aperture is oval ; the 

 canal is strongly curved to the left and backward. 



Length 72, greatest diara. 45 mm. ; length of aperture and canal 

 51mm. The largest individual measures, length 100, breadth 64, 

 length of aperture 7o mm. Both of these, as well as all specimens 

 seen, have lost several of the earlier whorls; so the length of a 

 perfect individual would be proportionately greater. 



The more prominent features of this species are the swollen form, 

 deep sutures, the strong spiral sculpture, and the strongly recurved 

 canal. 



The localities from which specimens have been obtained are as 

 follows: Point Pleasant, N. J. (Witmer Stone) ; Sea Isle City, N. 

 J. (John Ford, Oct., 1892) ; Cape May, N. J. (C. LeRoy Wheeler, 

 1891.) 



Prof A. E. Verrill of Yale College very kindly compared spec- 

 imens of this species with the collection under his charge (a collec- 

 tion vastly richer than any other in mollusks of the north-west 

 Atlantic.) He writes as follows : 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



" I have made a careful comparison of the Sipho sent by you with 

 our series. 



" It difters notably from anything we have, and is probably, as you 

 suppose, an undescribed species, unless described as a fossil. We 

 have specimens of the ventricose varieties of S. Sthnpso7ii, which 

 equal this in stoutness, and nearly equal it in curvature of the col- 

 umella, but the whorls are less ventricose, the shoulder less swollen, 

 the sutural region less deep, and the sculpture is very much finer." 



Comparisons have also been made by myself with the Atlantic 

 Siphos in the JJ. S. National Museum, and of course with the recent 

 and fossil series in the collection of the Academy. 



Dlaehcea Thomasii, a New Species of Myxomycetes. — Dr. Geo. A. 

 Rex presented specimens of a species of Diachcea which he con- 

 sidered new and undescribed. 



This species was first found by Mr. Lancaster Thomas at Cran- 

 berry in the mountains of Western North Carolina, and later by the 

 speaker at Linville higher up in the same mountains. In both 

 cases the Diachcea was first found in the plasmodial stage. Owing 

 to the altitude of these places, 3,200 and 3,800 feet respectively, the 

 temperature even in July and August frequently falls at night nearly 

 or quite to the lowest point compatible with the life of the Plas- 

 modium or with its further development to maturity. By careful 

 protection, however, perfectly mature sporangia were developed. 



The sporangia are beautiful and conspicuous, hence the speaker 

 was inclined to believe the species local in its habitat, else it could 

 not have escaped attention up to this time in view of the increasing 

 interest taken by students in the study of these forms. The species 

 may be described as follows : 



DiACH.EA Thomasii n. sp. Plasmodium ochre yellow, immature 

 sporangia pure white, mature sporangia of a metallic lustre either 

 silvery or gold bronze partially iridescent ; growing either singly or 

 in clusters, stipitate or sessile, globose when stipitate but flattened 

 beneath when sessile; ? to I of a mm. in diameter. Stipes variable, 

 usually short but sometimes equalling the diameter of the sporangium, 

 thick, rugose, dull ochre yellow in color, containing lime. Columellas 

 ochre yellow, rough, penetrating from 1 to ^ the height of the 

 sporangia, varying from bluntly conical to cylindric-clavate in 

 shape, containing minute round or oblong granules of lime. Spores 

 brown, 11-12 ,'j. in diameter, with a peculiar warting, the entire 

 epispore, when examined by a medium power lens being sparsely 

 covered with minute papillae associated with from six to eight large 

 scattered warts or papilhe apparently, which are resolved however 

 by a sufiiciently high amplification into clumps of from five to eight 

 minute, closely aggregated papillae. 



Capillitium sparse, brown violet in color composed of rigid, straight, 

 tapering threads arising from the columella and base of the 

 sporangium, joined by a few lateral branches in the middle and near 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



the ends into a loose open network ; threads from 3-7 ,a in thickness 

 at basal point of attachment tapering to a point at their attachment 

 to the sporangial wall. 



Hypothallus ochre yellow, calcareous, thick and continuous when 

 the sporangia are sessile, but scanty when they are stipitate. 



October 25. 

 The President, General Isaac J. "Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Sixty persons present. 

 The following were elected members : — 



Wm. L. Du Bois, Ann MayWhartenby, John T. M. Cardeza, M. D.^ 

 Samuel Castner, Jr., Mary Vaux, George M. Woodward, Aldrieh 

 J. Pennock, Philip P. Calvert, Thomas Earle White, Ralph F. 

 Cullinan, John A. Shulze and George Vaux, Jr. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



THE BATRACHIA AND KEPTILIA OF NORTH WESTERN TEXAS. 

 BY E. D. COPE. 



The present paper is based on collections made along the eastern 

 border of the Staked Plain of Texas, between Big Spring (on the 

 Texas Pacific R. R.) on the south, and the Salt Fork of the Red 

 River, near Clarendon (on the Denver and Fort Worth R. R.) on 

 the north, a distance of about 250 miles. The collections were made 

 incidentally to geologic and paleontologic explorations conducted by 

 a party of the Geologic Survey of Texas, which was under the direc- 

 tion of Mr. William F. Cummins. AVhile attached to this party, I 

 picked up such specimens as came in my way, and a good many 

 others were obtained by Mr. Cummins and by Mr. William L. 

 Black of the party. 



The region traversed presents great variety of landscape, plains 

 alternating with hilly country, and in some cases with bad lands. 

 Water issues at many points from beneath the superficial cenozoic 

 beds of the Staked Plains, forming the head tributaries of the 

 Colorado, Brazos and Red rivers. This water, however, generally 

 soon disappears beneath the sand that fills the beds of the creeks and 

 rivers, or appears only in pools. Under such circumstances it is 

 frequently impregnated with saline and alkaline salts. The springs 

 are generally the resort of the numerous cattle that graze in this 

 region, and when this is the case, are so contaminated by their presence 

 as to be unfit for human use. Dead cattle were common in the few 

 flowing streams at the time of my visit, so that it became necessary 

 to dig for a supply of water which should be partially relieved of 

 impurities by filtration. The best water, apart from a few protected 

 springs, was obtained from artificial reservoirs filled with rain water^ 

 which are made by the owners of cattle-ranges for their stock. In 

 these, turtles, batrachians, water-snakes, are not uncommon. The 

 route of the expedition followed theeasternescarpment of the Staked 

 Plain, but at times crossed its spurs, or entered its limits for twenty 

 or thirty miles. 



The total number of species enumerated is thirty-three. These 

 are distributed as follows. Batrachia : Urodela, 1 sjDecies ; Salientia, 

 7 species. Reptilia : Testudmata, 5 species ; Lacertilia, 8 species ; 

 Ophidia, 12 species. A comparatively small number of species are 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



found on the level surface of the Plain ; the greater number being 

 derived from the region bordering it on the east, or the two great 

 canyons which traverse it. These are the Canyon Blanco, from 

 which issues the principal head stream of the Brazos ; and the 

 Canyon Paloduro, which is traversed by the Prairie Dog head of the 

 Red river. The Tule Canyon is a branch of the latter. 



This paper may be regarded as supplementary to one published 

 as Bulletin No. 17 of the U. S. National Museum in 1880, " On 

 the Zoological Position of Texas." 



BATRACHIA. 



URODELA. 



Amblystoma tigrinum Green. 



This species is extremely abundant, according to Mr. Cummins, in 

 some permanent lakes on the Staked Plain near the Tule Canyon. 

 Numerous specimens were obtained at this locality, but I could not 

 find this or any other species of salamander elsewhere throughout 

 the region exjilored, although I examined carefully a number of 

 suitable localities. Mr. Cummins had previously obtained specimens 

 from a well which was sunk in the Staked Plain near Canyon Blanco, 

 and which either had a subterranean origin, or they were hatched 

 from eggs carried to the locality, as the latter was without water prior 

 to the sinking of the well. I obtained a specimen at Big Spring 

 which was said to have been taken in the neighborhood. 



SALIENTIA. 



Bufo debilis GiraiJ. 



This species is rather abundant throughout the region traversed. 

 It is frequently found in the grass, where its green color aids in 

 concealing it. When in the water, its cry is like that of B. lentig- 

 itiosus americanus, but is more feeble, and very " nasal." 

 Bufo cognatus Say. 



First seen near the head waters of the Brazos, but not common 

 south of Tule Canyon. 

 Bufo lentiginosus Shaw. var. 



A large specimen was obtained near Clarendon. The head is one- 

 fifth the length, as in B. I. woodhousei, but the cranial crests are as in 

 B. I. americanus. Not seen south of this point. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Acris gryllus Lee. 



Common wherever there is water. 

 Chorophilus triseriatus clarkii Baird. 



Less abundant than the preceding, but found throughout the 

 entire region as far north as explored. The spotted coloration is 

 constant. They sit immersed in the water, with the head projecting, 

 uttering their cry, as they inflate the enormous vocal sac, to which 

 the head appears to be but an appendage. The voice differs from 

 that of the form triseriatus in its more rapid utterance, and the 

 greater distinctness of the rising inflection at the end. 



Spea hammondii bombifrons Cope. 



Abundant near Canyon Tule (Cummins) ; not seen elsewhere 

 except near Clarendon, where I took one from the mouth of a 

 Heterodon nasicus, 



Bana virescens brachycephala Cope. 



Found everywhere at water ; the only species of the genus. 



REPTILIA. 



TESTUDINATA. 



Cistudo ornata Agass. 



Abundant on high land. Observed in copula in May. 

 Chrysemys elegans Wied. 



Found in all permanent springs, and along streams, often where it 

 has little concealment owing to the shallowness of the water. It 

 often lies partly hidden in mud, and in deeper water, bites the fisher- 

 man's hook. 

 Chelydra serpentina L. 



Reported by Mr. Cummins from the head waters of the Brazos. 

 Kinosternum flavescens Agass. 



An abundant species in the region traversed, and represented in 

 my collection by an adult male, and two adult and one young 

 females. The characters are in general those of the G. flavescens 

 Agass., but in some respects it differs from the type specimen. The 

 carapace, though depressed, is a longitudinal oval, the posterior 

 lobe of the plastron is wider than long, and the inguinal region is 

 but shallowly grooved. It agrees with C. flavescens in having 

 the superior anterior angle of the antepenultimate marginal scutum 

 produced upwards so as to notch deeply the penultimate costal 




334 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



scute, and in having but a narrow line of contact between the first 

 and second vertebral scuta. It differs from the type of the species 

 in having the pectoral scuta cut off from contact with each other hj 

 the posterior direction of the humero-pectoral sutures, which reach 

 the pectoro-abdominal, a character present in all of the adults. It 

 results from this that the gular scute does not extend half way to the 

 end of the median humeral scuta, as it does in the type specimen- 

 Posterior lobe of plastron notched postei*iorly. One inguinal and 

 one axillary scutum, in contact with each other. Penultimate 

 marginal scutum twice as high as the last one posteriorly, and 

 encroaching on the pygal and last costal plates. Kuchal plate 

 small ; no trace of dorsal keels, muzzle oblique, the apex projecting. 

 The color of the carapace is olivaceous, and of the plastron brownish- 

 yellow or yellowish-browD. The skin is lead-colored except the jaws, 

 chin, throat, and anterior face of fore legs, which are light-yellow- 

 Male with numerous rather obscure small brownish spots on sides of 

 head and maxillary region. Length carapace 5 , 140 mm. ; width 

 95 mm. length of plastron 110 mm. Length carapace $ 102 mm.; 

 ■width 76 mm.; length plastron 92 mm. 



This species is especially abundant in the artificial "tanks " of the 

 cattle ranges, and in temporary pools of rain water. Its muzzle 

 may be frequently seen projecting from the Avater, and it is an active 

 swimmer. As the pools apj^roach desiccation these turtles make 

 their way over land to other localities. The male in my possession 

 was an inhabitant of a small pool at which we camped for two days, 

 but he took his departure for a more permanent habitation on 

 the day that we left. We overtook him on the road, still covered 

 with fresh mud. 

 Trionyx emoryi Agass. 



Abundant in all permanent water. 



LACERTILIA. 



Eumeces obsoletus B. & G. 



Not seen living by me, but obtained at Big Spring near which 

 place it was said to have been caught. 

 Cnemidopliorus gnlaris gularis B. <t G. 



Cope, Transac. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1892, p. 4-3-5. 



The common swift of the country, very abundant, and showing no 

 variation of color. We did not see it north of Holmes' creek, which 

 is a tributary of the Red River south of the Prairie Dog creek. 




1892,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Cnemidophorus grahamii B. & G. 



Two specimens of this rare species were obtained by Mr. "NV. L. 

 Black near the Tule Canyon. The pattern of coloration is like that 

 of C. tessellatus tessellatiis, or C. gularis scalaris, except that it has 

 a median dorsal zigzag light stripe. 



Holbrookia macnlata B. &, G. 



Abundant everywhere, but chiefly on the open prairie. 

 Holbrookia texana Trosch. 



Abundant in rocky ground. 

 Crotaphytus collaris Say. 



Abundant, generally in rocky ground. 

 Phrynosoma cornutum Harl. 



Abundant, especially on the Staked Plain. Not seen north of 

 Clarendon. 



Phrynosoma modestum Gird. 



Rather abundant as far as Clarendon ; Tule Canyon. General 

 Pope sent this species to the National Museum from the Staked 

 Plain, and once from the head-waters of the Colorado, of Texas, but 

 I had no expectation of finding it so widely distributed on the east- 

 ern side of the Staked Plain. It is a species of the Sonoran fauna. 



OPHIDIA. 



Contia episcopa episcopa Kenn. 



From the Colorado to the Salt Fork of the Red River ; not very 

 common. In life the vertebral line is orange colored. 



Contia episcopa isozona Cope. 



One specimen from Tule Canyon ; AY. L. Black. 

 Ophilobus getulus sayi Holbr. 



One specimen from Tule Canyon ; W. L. Black. 

 Pityophis sayi sayi Schleg. 



The largest snake of the region and generally distributed. 

 Bascanium flagelliforme Catesby. 



The most abundant snake of the country. Although bellig- 

 erent when attacked, this species soon becomes perfectly tame, and 

 seems to be subject to some kind of hypnotization. The head is 

 held rigidly forward at an angle with the body, and it is difficult to 

 make it modify the position. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Heterodon nasicus nasious B. & 6. 



Found to be abundant in sandy soils from the heads of the Brazos 

 as far north as we went. 



Heterodon platyrhinus Latr. 



One specimen from Tule Canyon ; W. L. Black. 

 Eutaenia proxima Say. 



Specimens nearly as black as Mississippi valley specimens, from 

 Tule Canyon ; W. L. Black. 

 Eutaenia elegans marciana B. <fc G. 



Tule Canyon ; W. L. Black. 

 Natrix fasciata transversa Hallow. 



Common throughout the entire region, and constant in its char- 

 acters. 

 Crotalophorus catenatus edwardsii B. & G. 



One specimen from Quana, Hardeman Co. on the upper Red 

 River ; W. L. Black. 

 Crotalus confluentus confluentus Say. 



Abundant on the Staked Plain as far south as Canyon Blanco, 

 and on the lower country on the head-waters of the Red river. This 

 rattlesnake is abundant in prairie dog villages, as it protects itself 

 by retreating quickly into their holes when approached. 



Crotalus adamanteus atrox B. & G. 



At the foot of the Staked Plain about the heads of the Colorado. 

 Not met with on the Plain, or north of the region mentioned. 



Observations. 



The preceding list is remarkable from the absence of any species 

 of the genus Sceloporus, of which none were seen by the expedition. 

 This is due to the scarcity of timber, where they are generally found 

 in Texas. The terrestrial species of Mexico and of the Great Basin 

 do not appear to occur in this region. 



Another peculiarity is the great scarcity of individuals and species 

 of Eatcenia. I saw but one specimen during the expedition, and 

 this I did not obtain. 



As the point of junction of the Texan district with the Central 

 and Sonoran Regions, the country explored deserves especial atten- 

 tion. Enough is, however, not yet known of the distribution of 

 many of the species found within the political limits of Texas to 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



enable us to reach final conclusions. It is, however, evident that 

 the boundaries of the zoological district of Texas do not extend east 

 of Dallas. 



The only exclusively Texas forms of the above list are the follow- 

 ing : Chorophilus triserlatiis clarkil Bd., Kinosternum flavescens^ 

 Ag., Trionyx emoryi Ag., Holbroohia texana Trosch., Phrynosoma 

 cornutam Harl., Contia episcopa episcopa Kenn., Natrix fasciata 

 transversa Hallow., Crotalophorus catenatiis edwardsii B. & G. ; 

 that is, four species and four subspecies. Species of the Louisianian 

 district : Ophibolns getnlus sayi Holbr. and Eidcenia proxima. 

 Species of the Sonoran region and Texan district, three: Bufo dehilis 

 Gird., Crotaphytus collaris Say, Crotalus adamanteus atrox B. & 

 G. Species of the Sonoran entering the list : Cnemidophorus gularis 

 gularis B. & G., Phrynosoma modestnm Gird. ; two species. Species 

 of the Central Region are more numerous, viz.; Bufo cognatus ^ay, 

 Spea hammondii bombifrons Cope, Chryseviys elegans Wied., Hol- 

 brookia maculata B. & G., Pityophis sayi sayi Schl., Heterodon 

 nasicus nasicus B. & G., Crotalus confluentus confluenius Say ; total, 

 three species and four subspecies. Synoptically the results may be 

 tabulated as follows. 



species subsj^ecies 

 Texan, 4 4 



Central, 4 2 



Texan and one other region, 6 . 7 



Otherspecies of the list not included in these figures, have a still 

 wider distribution. 



It seems from the above, that the region explored is the meeting 

 ground of species of several different regions, as its geographical 

 position would indicate. 



' This species may also occur in tlie Sonoran region. 



23 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



NOTES ON A COLLECTION OF SHELLS FROM THE STATE OF 

 TABASCO, MEXICO. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The Academy has received during the past summei', several 

 parcels of laud and fresh-water mollusks collected by Professor 

 Jose X. Rovirosa, mainly in the State of Tabasco, Mexico. As a 

 portion of them are of considerable interest, the writer has drawn up 

 the following list. 



Glandina ghiesbreghti Pfr. 



San Juan Bautista, Tabasco. 

 Streptostyla nigricans Pfr. 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco. 

 Eucalodium compactum n. sp. (PI. XIV, fig. 4.) 



Shell cylindrical-tapering, solid, having a short, closed umbilical 

 chink; the cuticle thin, evanescent, very pale straw colored ; com- 

 posed of 9 narrow, somewhat convex whorls, which are rather 

 strongly striated, the strise arcuate, irregular in places, and from one- 

 half to one-third of a millimeter apart except on the last whorl where 

 they are closer ; last whorl angular in front of the upper angle of 

 the aperture^i becoming well rounded but retaining a trace of the 

 peripheral angle on its latter half. Aj^erture oblique, irregularly 

 ovate ; peristome continuous and free from the preceding whorl, 

 well expanded ; columella having an obsolete fold. Internal axis 

 having a strong spiral fold. Alt. 53, diam. 192 mill. 



Tabasco, Mexico. 



Cylindrella morini Morel. 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco. 



Ampullaria ghiesbregliti Reeve. 



San Juan Bautista, Tabasco. 

 Chondropoma rubicundum Morel. 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco. 

 Cyclophorus maleri Crosse & Fischer. 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco. 

 Cyclotus dysoni Pfr. 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHIlA. 1332. 



PL. X!V. 



|,W*-^ 



ij^^ 



k 



PILSBRY, TABASCO MOLLUSCA, ETC. 





1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Helicina ghiesbreghti Pfr. 



Mountains of Poana, Tabasco. 



Helicina oweniana Pfr. var. 



A rather aberrant variety, but in all probability this species. 

 Poana, Tabasco. 



Helicina tenuis Pfr. var. chiapensis Pfr. 



Poana, Tabasco. 

 ITnio semigranosus Busch. 



Rio Tulija, Tabasco. 

 Anodonta globosa Lea. 



A very large specimen, measuring 182x136x92 mill. 



San Juan Bautista, Tabasco. 



The splendid work of Crosse and Fischer upon the genus Paehy- 

 chilus enables me to readily classify the specimens collected by 

 Prof. Rovirosa ; the illustrations of the varieties of P. glaphyrus 

 are especially valuable. 



Pachychilus glaphyrus Morelet. 



This species is an exceedingly variable one, more so perhaps than 

 any other Mexican Melanian. The American student, however, 

 will readily call to mind cases of equal variability among the species 

 of our Southern States. The material sent by Prof. Rovirosa com- 

 prises a number of varietal forms not before made known. 

 P. glaphyrus Rovirosai Pils. 



This was figured and described under the name P. (polygonaius 

 var.?) Rovirosaim the Proceedings, 1892, p. 153, PI. VIII, figs. 9, 10. 

 I was at that time not aware of the fact that Morelet's name glaph- 

 yrus antedated that given by Lea, polygonaius. This form is allied 

 to P. glaphyrus typical, and to the var. scamnata, but it is distinct 

 from both. The form is notable for its stout, straight-sided spire, 

 non-impressed sutures, and the unsculptured young. 

 P. glaphyrus var. between polygonatus ami immanis. (PI. XIV, figs. 5, 6.) 



The two specimens figured are of the same size but differ in sculpt- 

 ure. One (fig. 6) is smooth above and below, having a strong sub- 

 spinous keel at the periphery, and a smooth, acute keel below it. 

 Upon the earlier whorls of the spire there are longitudinal waves, 

 and two spiral cords above the peripheral keel, which diminishes 

 in size. The base has no spirals. The other specimen has the 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



entire body-whorl spirally lirate (lira? ou body-whorl 9, on penulti- 

 mate whorl 3) and strongly plicate. 



P. glaphyrus potamarchus. (PI. XIV, fig. 7.) 



This is one of the largest forms of Pachychilus known, and it is 

 the most aberrant of the glaphyrus stock. The shell is rather 

 slender and acutely conical, the outline of the spire being straight. 

 The aperture is ovate, narrowed above, and one-third the length of 

 the shell. Whorls 10-11 remaining, several of the earlier being 

 lost by erosion. The microscopic sculpture is the same as in var. 

 Rovirosai. There are no traces whatever of the waves or folds so 

 prominently shown by the other varieties of glaphyrus, and the 

 spiral cords are also completely obsolete, or indicated by the faintest 

 traces on the base. The color is olive-green or olive-brown. 



Alt. 99, diam. 33 mill. 



Alt. 87, diam. 29 mill. Tabasco, Mexico. 



This variety differs from the pyramidalis of Morelet in being 

 larger and smoother, lacking altogether the chestnut colored spirals 

 of that form. 



P. chrysalis Brot. 



The specimens are large (alt. 60, diam. 27 mill. ; alt. of aperture 

 25 mill.) and have nearly perfect apices. They were collected at 

 Ixtacomitan, Chiapas, where they are called " Shote." There can be 

 little doubt that P. larvatus Brot is a synonym of chrysalis. 



P. corvinus Morelet. 



The specimens were collected at the Montanas de Poana, Tabasco. 

 They differ from Crosse and Fischer's figures in having the callus 

 at the upper termination of the inner lip much heavier. 



Pachychilus n. sp. . 



This is a form resembling closely in contour and sculpture the P. 

 suhexaratus C. & F. and also P. largillierti Phil., but differing from 

 both in possessing an extremely heavy deposit of callus at the upper 

 termination of the inner lip. The specimens were collected on the 

 mountains of Poana, state of Tabasco. As none having the cuticle 

 preserved are at hand, I refrain from giving a full description or 

 name. 



Potamanax subgen. nov. 



Shell solid, oval with short conic spire, spirally sculptured or 

 banded. Aperture ovate, acute above, broadly rounded below ; 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



outer lip not sinuous ; inner lip more or less heavily calloused, 

 not notched at the base. Operculum few-whorled, with basal nucleus. 

 Type P. Rovirosai Pils. 



This group has the sculpture of i/ejjizsi?nts but differs from that 

 genus in the entire, un-notched basal lip. The columella callus is 

 much like some species of PachychUus but the operculum is very 

 different from that genus. From both of these groups it differs in 

 ■ the short, ovate contour of the shell. The description of the oper- 

 culum is taken from Melania brevis d'Orbigny of Cuba, which I con- 

 sider congeneric. 



P. Rovirosai n. sp. (PL XIV, figs. 8, 9.) 



Shell oblong-conic, very solid, whitish, encircled by numerous nar- 

 row smooth spii'al line of a dark brown color, and somewhat 

 alternating in size. Spire conical, apical whorl eroded ; whorls 5 

 remaining, slightly convex, the last whorl large, regularly convex. 

 Aperture a little less than half the length of the shell, ovate, angular 

 above ; outer lip i-egularly arcuate ; inner lip strongly calloused. 



Alt. 20, diam. 12 mill, (old specimen.) 



Alt. 161, diam. 91 mill, (young specimen.) 



Two specimens are before me, collected by Prof Rovirosa at the 

 mountains of Poana, State of Tabasco. The older individual (PI. 

 XIV, fig. 8) is considerably worn ; the other is perfect but not 

 wholly adult, and neither contains the operculum. The species is 

 allied, apparently, to the Cuban Melania brevis Orb., but is 

 decidedly louger, and the lirte are much stronger. 



The relationship of Potamanax to Hemisinus in sculpture and 

 operculum is obvious, and has caused me to regard it as a subgenus 

 rather than a distinct genus; but the total lack of a basal notch or 

 truncation is a character usually considered of generic importance. 



Explanation of Plate XIV. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3, Chrysodomus {Sipho) Stonei Pils. 



Fig. 4, Eucalodium compactum Pils. 



Fig, 5, 6, PachychUus glaphyrus var. 



Fig. 7, P. glaphyrus var. potamarchus Pils. 



Figs. 8, 9, Potamanax Rovirosai Pils. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



XOVEMBER 1. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



?^ine hundred and twenty persons present. 



A paper entitled " Eclogje Botanicfe, Part I," by Edw. L. Greene 

 was presented for publication. 



The following report, succeeded by a lantern exhibition of a 

 collection of illustrative photograj^hs with comments, was read by 

 the author : — 



KEPORT OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE XORTH 

 GREENLAND EXPEDITION OF 1891-1892. 



To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : — 



I beg to submit the following Report of the N()rth Greenland 

 Expedition of 1891-92. 



The history of the inception and organization of the expedition is 

 familiar to the Academy, and I need not revert to it here. 



The incidents of the upward and return voyages are also in the 

 Academy's possession through the reports of Professor Heilprin, the 

 commander of the two auxiliary expeditions, and my report to the 

 Academy from McCormick Bay, July 29th, 1891. I shall refer to 

 these briefly to make this report cover from start to finish. 



The " Kite" with the members of my own expedition: Dr. F. A. 

 Cook and Messrs. Verhoeff, Gibson and Astrup, and my colored 

 boy Henson, besides Mrs. Peary and myself; and Professor Heil- 

 prin's party : Drs. Sharp, Holt, Hughes, Burk and Keely, and 

 Messrs. Ashhurst, Mengel and Kennealy, moved out of her Brooklyn 

 dock at 5 P. M., Saturday, June 6th, 1891, and steamed up the East 

 River amid the general salutes of the shipping. On the afternoon of 

 the 11th, she entered Sydney, Cape Breton, to coal, and left again on 

 the evening of thel2thfor Godhavn, North Greenland, via the Strait 

 of Belle Isle. After a vexatious delay of four days in the ice which 

 was jammed in the Strait, the expedition arrived at Godhavn on 

 the morning of the 27th. Remaining here until the afternoon of the 

 29th, to enable the members of the party to examine this interesting 

 locality, the "Kite" started northward again. Upernavik was 

 reached early in the morning of the 1st of July, and was left early 

 in the afternoon of the same dav. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



The next morning found us at the Duck Islands, where a supply 

 of ducks was laid in, and at night we got under way for the passage 

 of Melville Bay. Up to this time no ice had been met since leaving 

 the Strait. By midnight our further progress was arrested by the 

 ice, and not until July 23rd did the "Kite" get free from it off 

 Conical Rock. 



In the meantime I had had the misfortune to have both bones of 

 my right leg broken just above the ankle, by a blow from the iron 

 tiller while the Kite was ramming her way through the ice. This 

 accident occurred on the 11th of July, and from that time until July 

 27th (when I was carried ashore strapped to a plank), I lay upon my 

 back in the cabin. 



Early Saturday morning, July 2oth, after futile efforts to force a 

 passage through the ice which stillstretched unbroken across Inglefield 

 Gulf, the " Kite " swung around into McCormick Bay, on the north 

 side of Omenak or Murchison Sound, and two boat parties were 

 immediately sent out to reconnoitre the shores of the Bay for a house 

 site. This was soon selected, and the work of erecting the house 

 commenced at once. Fortunately, all the frames had been cut and 

 fitted while we were fast in the Melville Bay ice, before the accident 

 to my leg, and the I'emainder of the Avork was comparativelv plain 

 sailing. 



Monday afternoon I was transferred to my tent on shore, close to 

 the house where I could supervise the w'ork. Two days later, on the 

 29th of July, all my supplies having been landed, I turned the 

 "Kite "over to Professor Heilprin, and early the next morning 

 (Thursday), she steamed south. During this time, the crew of the 

 " Kite " and Professor Heilprin's party rendered my party much 

 assistance in the work on the house. Saturday the roof was com- 

 pleted, and I was carried in, to escape a furious storm of wind and 

 rain. Tidal and meteorological observations were commenced at 

 once. 



On the 12th of August, my house being completed as to the 

 exterior, I sent Gibson, Dr. Cook, Verhoeff and Astrup in the 

 "Faith," Gibson in command, with instructions to go to the great 

 loomeries of Hakluyt Island, and obtain a supply of birds for our 

 winter use; then to search the shores of Northumberland and Her- 

 bert for natives, and bring me back a hunter and his family. If no 

 natives were found here, Gibson was to cross AVhalc Sound to the 

 settlement of Nettiulume. In six days the party returned, Gibson 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



having successfully carried out all my instructions. The construc- 

 tion of a winter stone wall about the house was then commenced, the 

 work on this being varied by seal, deer and walrus hunts, and 

 reconnoissances of the neighboring ice caps by Astrup, on his ski. 



Between September 7tli and 30th two attempts were made, first 

 by Astrup, Gibson and Yerhoeff, then by Astrup and Gibson, to 

 carry out my plan of establishing an autumn advance depot of 

 supplies across Prudhoe Land, at the southeast angle of the Hum- 

 boldt glacier. In the last attempt, the men penetrated an estimated 

 distance of thirty miles, when they were stopped by the condition of 

 the snow. During their absence, I was moving about in the boat, 

 most of the time gathering in deer. Matt, and my native hunter 

 Ikwa, bagging fifteen. After the return of the men from the inland 

 ice, a hunting party was kept almost continually in the field until 

 the middle of November, when the score amounted to thirty-one. 



The land had long since been shrouded with snow, and the Bay 

 frozen over. The long winter night was now upon us, the sun 

 having disappeared on the 26th of October; we settled down in 

 comfort and security, with a well stocked larder, to pass lightly 

 through it. Constant occupation, first in the little fittings about 

 home, then in the construction of ski and sledges, varied by daily 

 exercise, the visits of the natives, and the pleasant breaks of Thanks- 

 giving and the Christmas holidays, congenial companionship and the 

 best of food, carried us quickly through the somber darkness. Never 

 was there a happier Arctic family than ours ; the first sound to greet 

 mv ears from the boys' apartment in the morning was a laugh, and 

 a laugh was the last thing 1 heard at night. 



The return of the sun about the middle of February was marked 

 by a storm of hurricane intensity. The tliermometer rose to plus 41° 

 F; rain fell in torrents, partially flooding Redcliffe, and even up on the 

 ice cap, 2,600 feet above the sea level, where Dr. Cook, Astrup and 

 myself had gone to greet the sun, rain fell for several hours. Early 

 in March hunting parlies were again sent out, and added ten more 

 deer to our stock. Just after this, nearly all of my party and 

 several of the natives then gathered about the house, were attacked 

 by the grippe. April 18th, I started with jNIrs. Peary, Gibson and 

 my native driver for a round of calls among my Eskimo neighbors, 

 and a tour of the unexplored recesses of Inglefield Gulf From the 

 settlement on Northumberland Island, Gibson returned to Redcliflfe 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Avith a load of dog food and several dogs which I had purchased; 

 ]\Irs. Peary and myself went on. 



The round of Inglefield Gulf was completed in six and a half 

 days, during which time I discovered and named over thiity glaciers, 

 at least ten of which are of the first magnitude. I doubt if any 

 other known region shows glacial phenomena of such magnitude and 

 variety as the shores of this body of water. On the last day of April, 

 Dr. Cook, Gibson and Astrup, with five natives and eight dogs, 

 started to the head of McCormick Bay, to get the inland ice supplies 

 up the bluffs. May 3rd, I followed them with Matt and twelve dogs, 

 leaving Verhoeff at Redclifte to continue his meteorological and 

 tidal observations, in which he had become intensely interested. 

 Four days later, JNIatt returned to Redcliffe. A w^eek of hardest 

 work was consumed in transporting my supplies up hill and down 

 hill, across the succession of great ice domes intervening between' 

 the shore and the edge of the true inland ice, fifteen miles distant. 



On the 15th of May, the actual start may be said to have been 

 made. My course was northeast true, which, assuming the charts to 

 be correct, should enable me to clear the heads of the Humboldt, 

 Petermann and Sherard Osborne indentations. Advancing on this 

 course, much to my surprise, I found myself almost immediately on 

 the divide, at an elevation of somewhat less than 5,000 feet, and 

 gradually descending toward the Humboldt Glacier Basin. Hardly 

 had I lost sight of the Whale Sound land before the distant peaks of 

 the Bensselser Harbor coast rose into view. 



After a gradual descent to an elevation of about 3,500 feet the sur- 

 face of the ice became nearly constant as to elevation across the 

 Huijiboldt Glacier plateau. 



On the 24th of May, at a distance of 130 miles from McCormick 

 Bay, all my boys having volunteered to accompany me, I selected 

 Astrup as my companion for the long journey, and Gibson and Cook 

 returned to Redcliffe. Two marches beyond this we began climbing 

 again and on the last day of June had i)assed out of the Humboldt 

 depression, and from the plateau southeast of Petermann, at an 

 elevation of 4,200 feet, looked down upon the head of that Fjord and 

 the great glacier discharging into it. Still ascending, we reached 

 the summit at an elevation of 5,700 feet, June 5th, and then began 

 descending into the St. George and Sherard Osborne depressions. 

 Unfortunately, the next two marches were made in cU^udy weathen 

 and I got too deeply into the depression, and too near the center of 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ice movement. As a result, about ten days were lost in getting out 

 again, and back on to the crevasse-free level heights farther inland. 



Again setting my course to the north and northeast everything 

 went smoothly until the 26th of June. On this day I was dis- 

 couraged to see the land, which had been occasionally visible in the 

 northwest, rise into view to the north, and then northeast. Then 

 the northwest entrance of a Fjord came into view, and we could 

 trace its course southeasterly just beyond the nearer mountains of 

 the land north and northeast. I changed my course to east, when I 

 was soon confronted by the land and the Fjord beyond. Then I 

 turned to the southeast, and travelled in that direction until the first 

 of July. A wide break in the land beyond the Fjord opened out 

 to the northeast, and I immediately headed for it. Land was 

 reached just before midnight of the 1st. On the 4th of July Astrup 

 and myself, having travelled some twenty-five miles over the coast 

 land, came out upon a vertical cliff about 3,500 feet high, and saw 

 below us the white expanse of the great bay into which the Fjord 

 debouched. This bay opened out to the northeast, and its distant 

 northern shore was free of snow and ice. In honor of the day, dear 

 to all of us, I named this bay Independence. Just to the east of my 

 observation spot, a huge glacier flowing due north discharged into 

 the bay. At its narrowest part, where vertical cliffs squeeze it 

 together, this glacier is ten to twelve miles wide, but the periphery 

 of its fan-shaped face in the bay, is not less than twenty miles in 

 extent. This glacier I have named the Academy Glacier. 



July 7th, we were back at the edge of the inland ice, and on the 

 8th began our uneventful return journey. Bearing more to the 

 south into the interior, in order to avoid the obstacles near the coast, 

 in four marches we were on the great central plateau, cloud-capped 

 and deep with snow. Here, at an average elevation of about 8,000 

 feet, we travelled for two weeks, then bearing to the westward, came 

 down to the 5,000 feet level east of the Humboldt Glacier, and thence 

 parallel to the outward route to the head of McCormick Bay. Just 

 before midnight of August 5th, we met Professor Heilprin and his 

 party, some ten miles from the edge of the ice, and early in the 

 morning of Saturdav the 6th, we touched the shore of McCormick 

 Bay. 



Monday, the " Kite " steamed down to Redcliffe. The next day 

 I started up Whale Sound in one of my boats to get some tents and 

 sledges which I had purchased of the natives. A continuance of 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



stormy Aveatlier detained nie eight days on this trip, and when I 

 returned I found that YerhoefF was rrjissing. A vigorous and 

 systematic search was at once instituted and prosecuted by the 

 members of Professor Heilprin's and my own party, assisted by the 

 crew of the "Kite," and all the able-bodied male natives at Red- 

 cliffe. The results of the search, the finding of minerals left by 

 Verhoeffand his tracks leading to a great glacier where all further 

 trace of him was lost, are already familiar to the Academy. August 

 24th, the "Kite" left McCormick Bay, and September 23rd the 

 North Greenland Expedition had the pleasure of setting foot upon 

 native soil again in Philadelphia. 



The principal geographical results of the Expedition may be 

 briefly summarized as follows: 



The delineation of the unknown shores of Inglefield Gulf, and the 

 imperfectly knoAvn shores of AYhale Sound. 



The delineation of the northern extension of the great Greenland 

 inland ice cap, and the determination of the northern limit of the 

 main Greenland land mass. The existence of detached ice-free land 

 masses of less extent to the northward. 



The rapid convergence of the Greenland shores above the 78th 

 parallel. 



The determination of the relief of an exceptionally large area of 

 the inland ice. 



The discovery of a large number of glaciers of the first magnitude. 



Geological results go hand in hand w'ith the geographical ones, 

 and are comprised in the additions to our knowledge of the inland 

 ice, and the large series of views showing the physical characteristics 

 of the ice-free land, both in the north and about Whale Sound and 

 Inglefield Gulf. These will, in due time, be placed in the hands of 

 the Academy. All this material bears directly on the problem of 

 the great ice age. 



In the field of ethnology, the expedition has had exceptional 

 opportvuiities and has obtained unique material. Dr. F. A. Cook, the 

 ethnologist of the expedition, has obtained a complete census of the 

 isolated little community of Smith's Sound Eskimos, with the rela- 

 tionships of every individual, and anthropometrical measurements 

 of seventy-five individuals. 



With Dr. Cook's assistance, I have photographed the same seventy- 

 five, and shall obtain complete, sets, consisting of front, side, and 

 rear elevations of between fifty and sixty individuals of both sexes 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and all ages. I feel that this material will answer the interesting 

 question, " AYhence came these strange people? " 



The mineralogical, botanical, and ornithological material is, 

 perhaps, of not more than usual interest, though there are some rare 

 specimens in the latter department, obtained by Mr. Gibson. Field 

 notes, and lists of specimens in these branches, will be sent the 

 Academy as soon as they can be put into shape. 



The meteorological and tidal observations by Mr. VerhoefF are 

 among the most complete and painstaking ever made in the Arctic 

 regions. These will be put in the Acadehiy's possession as soon as 

 practicable. An independent set of four-hourly tidal and weather 

 observations, kept by each officer of the watch, will prove of value 

 in connection with the above. 



While I have found no time, as yet, to digest and. discuss with 

 care my own observations of the inland ice, I feel justified in advanc- 

 ing even now, the following statements for the information of the 

 Academy : 



The inland ice of Greenland betw'een the 78th and 82nd parallels is 

 identical in all its characteristics with the inland ice under the 70th 

 parallel east of Disco Bay. 



The great glaciers of the northern and northwestern Fjords, of 

 which the Academy Glacier is a magnificent example, have all the 

 external features indicating resistless force and high velocity common 

 to the glaciers of Disco Bay and Omenak Sound, as well as those of 

 Inglefield Gulf 



Under normal conditions the wind of the great ice cap is always 

 blowing from the interior outward and downward, perpendicular to 

 the general trend of the coast. 



In all discussions of those agencies which tend to balance the 

 annual precipitation and prevent the rapid increase of the interior 

 ice cap, the agency of the wind, ceaselessly hurrying the snow from 

 the interior to the coast land-ribbon where it can melt, must be 

 placed on a par with the agency of the glacier, in evaporation and 

 sub-glacial liquefaction. 



As regards methods and equipment, and their bearing upon future 

 Arctic work, it may be claimed that the North Greenland Expedi- 

 tion has demonstrated that an itinerary upon the inland ice of Green- 

 land may be laid out and carried into effect with nearly, it not quite, 

 the same precision as the time-schedule of a freight train on any of 

 our great railroads ; and Professor Heilpriu has shown that, with a 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



proper vessel, the dates from here to AVhale Sound may be counted 

 upon with as much certainty as those for any sea voyage of equal 

 length. It has also been demonstrated that any portion of the 

 Greenlaud coast can be commanded by two or three properly 

 equipped men. 



The report would be incomplete without an acknowledgmeut of 

 my obligations to the members of my party : To Verhoeff, not 

 only for his generous financial assistance to the enterprise, but for 

 his absorbing interest and j^ainstaking work in the field of meteoro- 

 logical and tidal observations entrusted to his care. To Gibson, 

 strong and alert, quick with rifle and gun, the ornithologist and 

 Nimrod of the party. To Dr. Cook, patient and skilful surgeon, in- 

 defatigable worker, earnest student of the peculiar people among 

 whom we lived ; he has obtained, I believe, a record of the tribe, un- 

 approachable in ethnological archives. To Astrup, a young Her- 

 cules, fit descendant of the Vikings, ahnost a boy, yet with all a 

 man's grit and endurance, his handsome f\\ce was never other than 

 a pleasant sight to me, even under the most accentuated circum- 

 stances of monotony and fatigue. To Matt, my colored boy, a hard 

 and faithful worker, and second only to Gibson in the trophies of 

 the hunt. He deserves more credit, perhaps, than any other in 

 joining the expedition, belonging, as he did, to a race supposed to 

 be ill fitted for cold regions, and leaving behind him a young bride. 

 To Professor Heilprin, and the members of the Relief Expedition, I 

 am under obligation for many an act of courtesy, and many an hour 

 of pleasant companionship. 



Finally, I desire to thank the Academy most sincerely for the 

 quick and efficient interest and assistance with which it honored my 

 project less than two years ago, and for its jealous care for the safety 

 of the expedition, resulting in the despatch of the " Kite " northward 

 last summer, thus relieving my party of the last possible element of 

 serious hardship. I assure the Academy that my personal gratifica- 

 tion in having been enabled to carry out the plans of the expedition 

 to the letter has been enhanced by the feeling that this good fortune 

 is equally gratifying to my fellow members. 



R. E. Peary, 



Civil Engineer, U. S. Navy. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



November 8. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-four persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " Contributions to the Life Histories of Plants, No. 8." By 

 Thomas Meehau. 



" Preliminary Outline of a New Classification of the Helices." 

 By H. A. Pilsbry. 



Note on the Geology of Mt. Desert Island. — Dr. Henry C. 

 Chapman exhibited remains of a Brachiopod, Spirifer mucronota, 

 of an Ophiui'an, Ophiocten sericeum, and Yoldia glacialis given by 

 Charles S. Dorr, Esq., of Boston, to the Academy The specimens 

 were obtained from clay in digging a well at " Old Farm," Bar Har- 

 bor, Mount Desert, Maine. Dr. Chapman stated that as far as he 

 knew% with the exception of the remains of lowly organized forms 

 of marine life found in the clay at Seal Harbor, these were the 

 first fossils found at Mt. Desert. He referred incidentally to the 

 discontinuity of the granite axis of the island, the intervals 

 between the mountains being more or less filled up Avith water as 

 seen at Jordan's Pond, Long Pond, Echo Lake, etc. Allusion 

 was also made to the difiiculty in determining the relative age of 

 the flags, argillaceous shales and arenaceous schists deposited 

 upon the flanks of the island, as at Bar Harbor, Schoonerhead and 

 elsewhere. This is owing to the fact that in all such cases the deposits 

 lie directly upon bed rock and are never superimposed on each 

 other. 



November 15. 



Mr. Lewis Woolman in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Diffuse pigmentation of the epidermis of the oyster due to 

 prolonged exposure to the light: regeneration of shell and loss 

 of adductor muscle. — Prof. Ryder reported on behalf of Prof. 

 R. C. Schiedt that oysters which had the right valve re- 

 moved and exposed to the light in this condition, in a living 

 state for a fortnight or so, developed pigment over the whole of the 

 epidermis of the exposed right mantle and on the upper exposed 

 sides of the gills, so that the whole animal from this cause assumed 

 a dark-brown color. Animals so exposed not only attempted to 

 rejjroduce the lost valve and hinge, but also partly succeeeded in so 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



doing, even reestablishing the insertion of the diminutive pedal 

 muscle upon the inner face of the imperfectly reproduced right 

 valve, which was deformed owing to the lack of support of the right 

 mantle, because of the removal of the original right valve. As a 

 consequence the right mantle was rolled up at the edge, and this 

 deformation of the mantle was reflected in the attempted regenera- 

 tion of the lost right valve. The pigment developed during expos- 

 ure to light in the mantle and gills in oysters with the right valve 

 removed which were kept alive in the aquaria at Sea Isle City by 

 Prof. Schiedt was wholly confined to the epidermis as it normally is 

 at the mantle border in the unmutilated animal in nature. The 

 inference to be drawn from these facts is that the development of 

 pigment in the mantle and gills was wholly and directly due to the 

 abnormal and general stimulus of light over the exposed surface of 

 the mantle and gills, due to removal of the right valve, and that the 

 mantle border, the only pigmented portion of the animal, is pig- 

 mented because it is the only portion of the animal which is 

 normally and constantly subjected to the stimulus of light. 



Oysters which had the right valve removed were found to live 

 perfectly well in the marine aquaria at Sea Isle, and would no 

 doubt have survived till now had Prof. Schiedt been able to con- 

 tinue his experiments there. The most remarkable results obtained 

 as a consequence of these experiments were that the adductor 

 muscle was soon attacked by bacteria and destroyed by putrefac- 

 tion while the great ganglion underlying it remained uninjured. 

 The pericardiac cavity was also torn open, exposing the heart 

 completely, in some instances. In these cases the heart continued 

 to beat and propel the blood through the other organs of the body 

 as if nothing untoward had happened. The maximum rate of 

 pulsation of the heart noted was 52 per minute, which is much 

 greater than the rate hitherto reported. 



The anus was also retracted into a new and more anterior 

 position, owing to the loss of support which it had suffered in con- 

 sequence of the sloughing away of the adductor muscle. Whether 

 the adductor muscle thus sloughed away would ultimately be repro- 

 duced was not determined, since the experiments were interrupted 

 before the animals had time to present evidence of such regeneration 

 of the lost muscles. 



These experiments open up a most suggestive line of investi- 

 gation upon other univalve and bivalve mollusca, viz : experi- 

 mental researches as to the effect of removing the valves and 

 exposing them to the light. INIany other species, both marine and 

 freshwater, might obviously be experimented upon with very in- 

 structive results as respects the questions raised by the present 

 communication. 



The hermaphroditism and viviparity of the oysters of the North- 

 west coast of the United States. — Prof. J. A. Ryder also reported on 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



behalf of Prof. R. C. Scbiedt, of Franklin and Marshall College, 

 Lancaster, Pa., the latter's discovery of the fact that the oysters 

 native to the northwest coast of the United States are hermaphro- 

 dite and viviparous. Specimens from the coast of Oregon and 

 Washington show that the same condition exists in the reproductive 

 follicles as in those of Odrea ediUis of Europe. The presence of 

 eggs and of spermatoblasts and spermatozoa in the same follicles 

 is the invariable rule. The ova, like those of O. edulis, are much 

 larger than those of 0. virginica, though perhaps not quite so large 

 as the former. The embryos are fertilized in the gill and mantle 

 cavities, where they undergo development. 



These northwest-coast oysters also resemble the oysters of Europe 

 in that they are small and have little or no indication of purple 

 pigment on the impression or point of insertion of the adductor 

 muscle, which is so conspicuous a feature in Ostrea virginica of our 

 eastern coast. 



On the cause of the greening of the oyster and its presumed 

 algous endoparasites. — Prof. John A. Ryder also reported on 

 behalf of Prof. Schiedt and himself the fact that living oysters 

 from which the right valves had been removed, also became green 

 about the heart as soon as green algre appeared on the sides of the 

 aquaria in which the oysters were kept at Sea Isle laboratory. Our 

 experience, unlike that of Prof. Decaisne and others in France, was 

 not conclusive as to the cause being the bluish green pigment, 

 phycocyanin, absorbed from certain diatoms. On the contrary, 

 the forms of alg£e present were diatoms, desmids and the spores of 

 Ulva, and, possibly, round-celled unicellular forms, so that it 

 became impossible to decide from which species, used as food, the 

 pigment was derived that discolored the affected heart of the speci- 

 men observed to become tinged. 



Prof. Schiedt now informs the speaker that some of these marine 

 alg{?e which are believed to have caused the discoloration of the 

 oysters at Sea Isle, he has kept alive in a small aquarium filled 

 with sea water, at Lancaster, for over two months since he left the 

 sea- side laboratory. 



The occurrence of these unicellular algre of various kinds in 

 association with the abrupt appearance of the green color in some 

 one organ of the oyster, as happened at Sea Isle City, opens up the 

 query whether the singular brownish green bodies so often 

 observed by Prof. Ryder in sections of the connective tissues of the 

 oyster are not endoparasitic alg:3e, which are in some way genetically 

 connected with some of the forms that appeared in association with 

 " greened " oysters at Sea Isle. The late Prof Leidy's discovery, 

 many years ago, of algse in the tissues of fresh-water mussels, is 

 suggestive in this connection. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia, 353 



November 22. 



Eev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Fifty persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Evohitiou of the Premolar Teeth in the 

 Mammals." By W. B. Scott, was presented for publication. 



A Meteoric Stone seen to fall at Bath, South Dakota. — Dr. A. E. 

 FooTE said he wished to put on record the reception of a meteoric 

 stone which was seen to fall on the 29th day of August, 1892, two 

 miles south of the town of Bath, South Dakota. About four 

 o'clock in the afternoon Mr. Lawrence Freeman and his son were 

 working in the field when they were alarmed by loud reports, 

 and looking up, saw the meteoric stone fly through the air 

 and fall about twenty rods from where they were. It seemed 

 to be followed b}' a cloud of dust or vapor. The stone had 

 penetrated the hardened prairie to the depth of sixteen inches and 

 was at once dug up, and was found to be so warm that it was neces- 

 sary to wear gloves to handle it. The weight of the meteorite is 

 464 pounds. It was probably originally about one pound heavier 

 but lost three fragments just before reaching the earth. Internally 

 and externally it much resembles the stones from Winnebago 

 County, Iowa, both the chrysolite and the iron being disseminated 

 through the mass in fine grains. Preliminary tests by Mr. A. P. 

 Brown, of the University of Pennsylvania, showed the presence of 

 both nickel and cobalt in the iron. It is a somewhat remarkable 

 fact, that although this region is sparsely settled, the number of 

 observed falls for a period of several years has been extraordinarily 

 great in proportion to the whole number of falls observed during 

 the same period. The noise of the explosion was so great that it 

 was heard, not only in the town of Bath, but in Aberdeen, a town 

 much more distant, and was described in the Aberdeen paper as 

 resembling distant cannonading. The annexed affidavit contains 

 the statement of an eye witness. 



Affidavit of Charles Freeman, Bath, South Dakota, November 

 18, 1892. 



'"Be it known that on this 18th day of November, 1892, person- 

 ally appeared before me, Henry T. Root, a Notary Public for South 

 Dakota, Charles Freeman, of the town of Bath, Brown County, 

 South Dakota, who deposes and says, that on the 29th day of 

 August, 1892, while at work on his father's farm, on Section ."12 of 

 the town of Bath, he saw a meteoric stone fall near where his father, 

 brother and himself were working and that they then proceeded to 

 dig up the aforesaid meteoric stone and did bring it in the evening 

 of the same day to the store of J. D. ]\[asoii, in the town of Bath, 

 where it has since remained, and that he has this day boxed and 



24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



shipped the aforesaid stone to Dr. A. E. Foote, of No. 4116 Elm 

 Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 



Signed, Charles Freeman." 

 This interesting specimen will remain permanently in Phila- 

 delphia. 



November 29. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Sixty-four persons present. 



The Committee on the Hayden Memorial Geological Award 

 reported that the medal and the interest arising from the fund had 

 been this year voted to Eduard Suess of Vienna. 



Keport of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial 

 Geological Award. 



The Committee appointed by the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia to recommend the award of the Hayden Memorial 

 Medal and accompanying fund, for the year 1892, have the honor to 

 report to the Academy that they have selected Prof. Eduard 

 Suess of Vienna, as their choice for the distinction which the award 

 confers. 



Prof. Eduard Suess was born in Loudon, Aug. 20th, 1831, 

 and is, therefore, but little beyond the prime of life. He studied 

 in Prague and in Vienna, becoming in 1852 assistant in the Hof- 

 mineralienkabinett of Vienna, professor of geology in 1857, and 

 shortly afterward general adviser to the Water Commission. Under 

 his guidance the present splendid system of water supply, from a 

 natural reservoir located in the Raxalp, was introduced into the 

 Austrian capital. From 1863 to 1873 Prof. Suess was a member 

 of the Common Council of Vienna; in 1869 he was elected a mem- 

 ber of the Lower Austrian Diet, and in 1873 a representative to 

 the Imperial Reichsrath where he distinguished himself as a 

 brilliant orator and leader of the " Left," 



For upward of forty years Prof. Suess has been an indefatigable 

 worker in the domain of geology and paleontology, and it can be 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



justly said of him that there is scarcely a paper prepared by his 

 pen during this period which does not possess more than ordinary 

 merit. To a mind richly stored with facts is added a perceptive 

 and reasoning faculty Avhich is as broad and far-reaching as it is 

 brilliant, and from which have emanated many of the more lumi- 

 nous conceptions which inseparably belong to the "new geology." 

 The Suess-Neumayr theory of mountain construction, which rec- 

 ognizes a one-sided thrust as the dominant motor of orographic 

 flexures — a view, however, that has not yet been accepted by all 

 geologists — is principally the creation of his mind ; to him, like- 

 wise, must be credited the conception, or at least the elaboration of 

 the hypothesis, that the earth is undergoing a process of continuous 

 sectioning (VerstiXckelung), i. e., of having its superficial parts 

 dropping in blocks toward the planetary center. Prof. fSuess is a 

 firm non-believer in secular movements of elevation and depression 

 of the continental areas, and an equally firm upholder of the doc- 

 trine of oceanic instability, recognizing that the relative changes in 

 the position or levels of the land and water are due primarily to differ- 

 ential movements of the oceanic surface. This conception, which 

 has only recently been entertained by English and American geolo- 

 gists, has long since served as a starting point with many of the 

 foremost geologists of the continent of Europe. 



Among Prof. Suess' numerous papers may be mentioned 

 "Bohmische Graptolithen " (1852); " Der Boden der Stadt Wien" 

 (1862) ; " Ueber den Losz " (1866) ; " Charakter der Ostreichischen 

 Tertiiirablagerungeu " (1866); "Bau der Italienischen Halbinsel" 

 (1874) ; " Die Entstehung der Alpen " (1875) ; "Die Zukunft des 

 Goldes" (1877). Prof Suess' most extensive work is the " Antlitz 

 der Erde," of which two volumes have thus far appeared (1885- 

 1888). This work shows the impress of the master on almost 

 every page, and for breadth of scholarship can find a fitting place 

 only between the " Cosmos " of Humboldt and the " Origin of 

 Species" of Darwin. 



Angelo Heilprin, Chairman. 



Persifor Frazer, 



J. P. Lesley, 



Wm. B. Scott, 



Benj. Smith Lyman, 



Committee. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The following were elected members — 



Charles Coulter, William De Cou, Henry C. Ford, William E. 

 Meehan, William A. Shryock, Edw. S. Scranton, Jos. G. Harrison, 

 Edw. Coles, Wm. Wynne Wister, Jr., Mary Pearsall, Anna W. 

 Pearsall and Ellen W. Longstreth. 



C. Lloyd Morgan of Bristol, England, and John Baird of Man- 

 chester, England, were elected Correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



ECLOGa: BOTANICa:, NO. 1. 

 by edward l. greene. 



1. New or Noteworthy Thistles. 



Eighteen years have now elai^sed since Professor Asa Gray pub- 

 lished his " Synopsis of North American Thistles."' In that paper 

 about thirty species were enumerated, six of which were described 

 as new; and four of these six were Californian. But the vast field 

 of Californian botany had been only very imperfectly explored at 

 that time; and thistles are plants which collectors, for obvious 

 reasons, neglect. During the lapse of these eighteen years, however, 

 more than a half-dozen new thistles have been recognized in Cali- 

 fornia. Two of them have already been published by the present 

 writer ; and the diagnoses of the rest are now to be given. 



Dr. Gray, in following Bentham and Hooker as to the proper 

 name for the genus, seems not to have acted wisely; for the Cnicus 

 of the ancient Fathers of Botany is Carthamus tinctorivs, while the 

 Cnicus of Linnteus has for its type species what is now commonly 

 known as Ceutmirea benedida ; so that whether the initial date for 

 genera be 1753 or 1700, Cnicus is not free for application to this 

 vast genus known to us as Thistles, the Latin name of which must 

 be either Card^ms or Cirsium. These two will be retained, or else 

 the latter genus will be merged in the former, according as the gen- 

 era be considered distinct or inseparable. I regard them as insep- 

 arable, and therefore employ that name which has the sanction of 

 Linntean usage, and has been adopted by M. Baillon. 



Carduus crassicaulis. 



Very stout and tall, 4 to 7 feet high : stem an inch in diameter 

 below, strongly striate throughout, simple up to near the summit, 

 there becoming somewhat thyrsoid-paniculate, Avith 3 to 7 short- 

 peduncled heads, 1 2 to 2 inches high : herbage permanently hoary- 

 lauate : leaves small, pinnately parted, the segments spinose-tipped 

 and the whole margin spinulose-ciliate : involucral bracts rather lax, 

 linear-lanceolate to lanceolate-acuminate, all tipped with a slender 

 straight spine, the outer and middle ones with pectinate-spinescent 



1 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. X, pp. 

 39-48, 1874. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



margins : segments of the whitish or j)inkish corolla about as long 

 as the throat. 



Abundant in low, grassy, and occasionally inundated river bot- 

 toms of the lower San Joaquin, near Lathrop, California. A very 

 well marked and probably rather local species, flowering in May. 

 Carduus callilepis. 



Stem and leaves unknown : head pedunculate, depressed-globose, 

 barely an inch high : bracts of the involucre in many series and 

 closely imbricated, the outer broadly obovate, all except the inner- 

 most exposing round-ovoid tips with deeply lacerate scarious or 

 semi-cartilaginous margins and an abrupt short rigid erect terminal 

 spine ; the veiy innermost with lanceolate scarious-margined and 

 fimbrillate tips : flowers small, ochroleucous, the limb of the corolla 

 only a third as long as the throat. 



Western California; probably Humboldt Co., the material very 

 scanty, but indicating a very pronounced and remarkable species, 

 with involucre more like that of a Centaurea than of any other 

 known Carduus. 

 Carduus hydrophilus. 



Rather slender and freely branching, 4 or 5 feet high ; herbage 

 when young, pale with a fine and close arachnoid tomentum, in 

 maturity green and glabrate : leaves deeply piunatifid into uniform 

 3-lobed segments : heads numerous, little more than an inch high, 

 glomerate in twos and threes at the ends of the numerous and pan- 

 iculate widely spreading branchlets: involucre ovate, the somewhat 

 appressed-imbricate scales pluriserial, rather firm, with a green and 

 glutinous ridge toward the summit, and ending in a short, slender, 

 erect or slightly spreading spine : corollas deep rose-purple, the limb 

 about equalling the throat: pappus bristles very delicately and 

 sparsely long-plumose below, naked at the aristiform or clavellate 

 tips. 



Very common in the brackish marshes of Suisun Bay, California, 

 where it grows within reach of tide water, and is associated with 

 the equally local Cicuta Bolanderi, and flowers in July. 

 Carduus occidentalis Nutt. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. vii, 418. 



Very stout, 1 to 3 feet high ; the lanceolate pinnatifid leaves 

 densely white-tomentose beneath, only hoary-lanate or arachnoid 

 above; heads 2 inches high, or larger, on long and stout peduncles; 

 bracts of the involucre in very many series, all linear-subulate, ascend- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



ing, spiuose-tipped (the spine straight), all connected by a more or 

 less heavy iuduraent of arachnoid, very fine hairs; flowers deep red ; 

 segments of the corolla little surpassing the throat ; pappus short, 

 the very slender plumes naked at tip, and scarcely dilated. 



Abundant on sand dunes near the sea, in western California, at 

 San Francisco, and southward to Santa Barbara and the outlying 

 islands. A remarkable and maritime species Avith which the next 

 has needlessly been confused. 



Carduus candidissimus. 



Stout, erect, 2 or 3 feet high, densely and permanently white arach- 

 noid-tomentose throughout; leaf-outline as in the last ; heads few, 

 on shorter and stouter peduncles, 2 inches high, but narrower than 

 in the last; outer bracts of the involucre with dilated and closely 

 appressed base and squarrose rigid linear-aeerose spinescent tip, all 

 densely arachnoid-tomentose ; flowers crimson ; pappus an inch long, 

 plumose almost throughout. 



Common on dry hills in extreme northern California, thence south- 

 ward, but in the interior only, though coming out to the seaboard 

 at Santa Barbara. Keadily distinguished from C. occidentalis by 

 its dense white tomentum and very different involucre and pajipus. 

 Carduus veuustus. 



Stoutish, 3 feet high, sparingly branching ; lower leaves unknown ; 

 cauline few and reduced, permanently more or less arachnoid, white 

 beneath ; heads large, 2 inches high and broad, terminating long 

 pedunculiform branches; involucre glabrate, the very numerous 

 bracts with closely appressed base and long, squamose, rigid, green 

 lanceolate subulate and rather abruptly short-spinescent tips; cor- 

 ollas bright crimson, the segments longer than the throat ; pappus- 

 plumes barbellate above the plumose part, the tips scarcely dilated. 



This belongs to the hills of the inner Coast Range of California, 

 from Vacaville southward. It is our most beautiful thistle, and 

 appears to have been made a part of the aggregate Cnicus occiden- 

 talis in the Synoi^tical Flora of Gray, though it is more strictly an 

 ally of C. Califoriiicus (which is the C. lilaclnus Greene, Bull. Calif. 

 Acad, ii, 404 = Carduus Calif ornicus). 

 Carduus undulatis Nutt., Gen. ii, 130. 



This very widely disseminated thistle of western North America, 

 is either excessively variable, or else an aggregate embracing many 

 species. The original station for it, as a specific type, is " calcareous 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



islands in Lake Huron," and botanists of the middle sections of the 

 Union would do well to collect again the type. Its real characters 

 cannot be made out from Nuttall's diagnosis, except as compared 

 with eastern species. Gray's description does not pretend to 

 define the plant of any one locality, but is made loose enough to 

 cover that vast aggregate of specimens which he had from all parts 

 of the country between the Great Lakes and the Pacific, and from 

 Manitoba to Mexico. Such a collection exhibits forms very distinct 

 in general appearance, and enough of them to make five or six 

 fair geogi'aphical species without much character of flower or fruit, 

 though with good habitual marks, and some vegetative characters. 

 The Lake Huron type was low and "few flowered," and had bifid, 

 spiny, overlapping lobes to its leaves, which were tomentose on both 

 sides ; a large subglobose involucre, with appressed lanceolate acu- 

 minate bracts, the spinescent tips of which are presumably spread- 

 ing or reflexed. The heads, in all the western representatives of 

 the aggregate, are ovate rather than subglobose, and have the spin- 

 escent tips of the scales as above described. The pappus of the 

 marginal flowers is only barbellate, while in all the rest in the head 

 it is plumose ; but this it has in common with many other American 

 species. Some of our most striking western plants of this aggregate 

 may be recognized under C. undulatus, as follows : 



Yar. Douglasii. Cirsium Douglasii I>. C, Prodr. vi, 643 (1837). 



Stout, probably not tall ; heads rather numerous, not large, short- 

 I)edunculate ; leaves white beneath, and nearly so above, with a 

 close arachnoid tomentum, deeply pinnatifid, amplexicaul ; heads 

 about 1 inch high, the ovate and ovate-lanceolate bracts closely 

 appressed, with a glutinous sj)ot below the short-spinescent tip ; seg- 

 ments of the corolla shorter than the throat. From Oregon to mid- 

 dle California, in the wooded regions of the coast Range, on rather 

 open ground, hillsides, etc. This is presumably the type of C, 

 Douglasii and very possibly of specific rank. 



Yar. megacephalus (tlray, as Cnicus). 



This has few and quite large heads, and a very ample thin foli- 

 age not strongly spinescent. It appears to be a tall plant, and is from 

 the interior of Washington and northern Idaho. Mr. Leiberg's n. 

 654 is doubtless a good type of this. It is also possible that this 

 rather than the preceding may be the true Douglasii. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Var. Nevadensis. 



Of middle height, but widely and pauiculately branching, the 

 small heads solitary or glomerate at the ends of the branches; 

 leaves green and glabrate above, hoary-arachnoid beneath, the lobes 

 rigidly spiny ; bracts of involucre closely appressed except the 

 slender-sijinose tips. At the eastern base of the Sierra Nevada, 

 California, near Truckee, etc., collected by the writer in 1883. 

 Carduus Mohavensis. 



Stoutish, branching, 3 to 5 feet high, whitish throughout, with a 

 minute and close tonieutum ; leaves of lanceolate outline, narrow 

 and with lobes not overlapping, bearing few and rigid spines, the 

 middle cauline decurrent on the stem for one-third their length, 

 and all except the very lowest manifestly decurrent; heads few and 

 terminal, small, round-ovate ; ovate involucral bracts somewhat 

 arachnoid, tipped with spreading spine of their own length or 

 longer ; segments of the reddish corolla as long as the throat ; 

 anther tips attenuate-subulate; pappus of marginal achenes merely 

 scabrous, of the others only sparsely plumose and that near the 

 base. 



At Rabbit Springs, in the Mohave Desert, 1886, S. B. Parish, n. 

 1,83-1; distributed as C. undulatus, from which its conspicuously 

 decurrent foliage and different pappus at once distinguish it. 

 Carduus Eusbyi. 



Probably very tall, rather slender, paniculate above, with many 

 small ovate heads ; radical leaves long-petioled, 1 to 2 feet long, 4 

 inches wide, sinuate-pinnatifid, only sparingly and rather softly 

 spinescent, pale beneath with a thin toraentum, glabrate above, in 

 texture quite thin ; floral leaves very small, each lobe and tooth 

 bearing a stout long spine ; ovate bracts of involucre appressed, 

 coriaceous, tipped with a long stout spreading spine ; flower appar- 

 ently whitish ; segments of the corolla little surpassing the throat; 

 anther-tips attenuate ; outer achenes with scarcely barbellate bristles. 



Southern Arizona, 1883, Dr. H. H. Rushy. Species remarkable 

 for the strong contrast between the soft and scarcely armed lower 

 leaves and the excessively spiuose floral ones. 

 Carduus Bernardinus. 



Rather slender, leafy below, bearing at summit 1 to 3 long pedun- 

 cled subglobose heads ; leaves of linear or lanceolate outline, sin- 

 uate-toothed or lobed, and with few small spines, equally white- 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



tomeutose above and beneath ; heads au inch hiojh and nearly as 

 broad ; ovate-acuminate, weakly spinescent involucral bracts rather 

 closely appressed, their margins distinctly ciliolate ; reddish corollas 

 with remarkably wide cylindrical throat and similarly wide linear 

 and cuspidate segments of about equal length ; anther-tips with an 

 abrupt long mucro ; pappus bright-white, that of the marginal achenes 

 barbellate, of the others strongly phunose. 



At an altitude of 4,500 feet in Little Bear Valley, of the San 

 Bernardino Mountains, southern California, S. B. Parish, 1884, n. 

 1,686. This was distributed as C Californicus ; but the flowers can- 

 not have been examined by Dr. Gray; or scarcely the involucral 

 bracts. It is a most excellent species. 



The following species of the western United States and Mexico 

 are in my herbarium, without a nomenclature, under Carduus, and 

 I here transfer them. 



C. Americanus. Ctticns Americanus Gray, Syn. Fl. 398. 

 Colorado to California. 



C. Parryi. Cnicus Parryi Gray, Proe. Am. Acad, x, 47. 



Colorado to Utah. 



C. scopulorum. Cirsium eriocephalum Gray, Proc. Acad. Philad. 1863, p. 69, and 

 Cniczis e7-iocephalus Gray, Proc. Am. Acad., 1. c. 



Colorado to Montana. 



C. edulis. Cirsium edulis Xutt., Trans. Am. Phil. i^oe. vii, 420. Cnicus edidis 

 Gray, 1. e. 



Oregon and California. 



C. Neo-Mexicanus. Cirsium Neo- Mexicaiiui?i Gray, PI. Wright, ii, 101, and Proc. 

 Am. Acad, x, 10, under Cnicus. 



Kew Mexico. 



C. Andersonii. Cnicus Andersonii Gray, Proc. Am. Acad, x, 44. 



Sierra Nevada of California. 

 C. Arizonicus. Cnicus Arizonicus Gray, 1. c. 

 Arizona. 



C. Rothrockii. Cnicus Kothrockii Gray, Proc. Am. Acad, xvii, 220: 



Arizona. 



C. quercetorum. Cnicus quercetorum Gray, Proc. Am. Acad. x. 40. 



Coast Range hills, in Western California. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 363 



C, fontinalis. Cnicus fontinalis Greene, Bull. Calif. Acad, ii, 15 1. 



Crystal Springs, San Mateo County, California. 



C. amplifolius. Cnicus amplifolius Greene, Pittonia, i, 70. 



Coast Range, California. 



C. Grahami. Chsium Grahami (Jray, PI. Wright, ii, 102, and Proc. Am. Acad, x, 

 42, under Cnicus. 



Arizona. 



C. ochrocentrus. Cirsiurn ochrocentrtan Gray, PI. Fendl. 110, and Proc. Am. 

 Acad, xix, 57, under Cnicus. 



Southern California to western Texas, and Colorado. 



C. Breweri. Cnictcs Breiveri Gray, Proc. Am. Acad, x, 43. 



California and Oregon. 



C. raphilepis. Cnicus raphilepis Hemsl., Biol. Centr. Am. Bot. ii, 252. 



Southern Mexico. 



C. acantholepis. Cnicus acantJwUpis Hemsl., 1. c, 251. 



Mexico. 



C. Mexicanus. Cirsitim Mexicanum D. C, Prodr. vi, 6.36. Cnicus Mexicamis, 

 Hemsl., 1. c. 



Southern Mexico. 

 C. heterolepis. 



Stout and tall (8 feet high), parted above into long pedunculate 

 and monocephalous branches ; leaves a foot long, sessile or short- 

 petioled, pinnately parted into lanceolate spinose segments, strigose- 

 pubescent above, white-tomentose beneath ; heads 21 inches high; 

 bracts of involucre very unequal, loosely imbricate, the exterior 

 and middle ones lanceolate and lanceolate-acuminate, pecti'nate-spin- 

 ulose and with straight spinose tip ; the inner 2 inches long, linear, 

 thin and almost scarious throughout ; segments of the corolla about 

 equalling the throat ; all the pappus-bristles plumose. 



State of Jalisco, Mexico, 1889, C. G. Pringle, n. 2,486 ; distrib- 

 uted as a Chicks, with the specific name here continued ; but I can- 

 not find that any description was published. 



C. linearifolius. Cnicus linearifolius S. Wats., Proc, Am. Acad, xxvi, 143. 



Southern Mexico. 



C. velatus. Cnicus velatus P. Wats., 1. c. 



Southern Mexico. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



C. Pringlei. Cnicus Privglei S. Wats., 1. c, xxv, 156. 

 State of IS^uevo Leon, Mexico. 



C. excelsior. Cnictis excelsior Rob., Proc. Am. Acad, xxvii, 179. 



Slender and perhaps very tall ; lower leaves unknown ; cauline 

 oblong-lanceolate, scarcely either lobed or toothed, but more or less 

 distinctly spinose-serrulate, decurrent along the stem for at least a 

 third their length, white-tomentose beneath, hoary above; heads 

 small, clustered at the ends of slender paniculate branches; bracts 

 of involucre regularly and closely imbricated, ovate, viscid on the 

 back below the slender spreading terminal spine; corolla rose-pur- 

 I^le, the segments quite surpassing the anthers and style, but much 

 shorter than the tube; pappus sordid, altogether plumose. 



C. Potosinus. 



Near the last, but stouter and perhaps taller ; cauline leaves 

 ampler, deeply pinnatifid, with sharply spinose lobes, not in the 

 least decurrent ; flowers and fruit as in the last. 



This species and the one preceding are in Mr. Pringle's Mexican 

 collection of 1891, from the State of San Luis Potosi, and are dis- 

 tributed in one sheet, under the number 3,768. The 2:)riuted ticket 

 bears the statement that the plants grow in low lands, and attain a 

 height of from six to ten feet. In C. excelsior the leaves appear as if 

 joined to the stem for a third their length without any tapering from 

 the point of junction ; a character so remarkable that the two 

 plants can in no wise be treated as one sjDecies. 



2. Three New Perennial Lupines. 

 Lupinus fioribundus. 



Stems tufted, rather firmly erect (sometimes decumbent at base), 

 a foot high or more, with several ascending branches, each ending 

 in a well developed raceme ; herbage more or less villous or hirsute ; 

 leaves all short-petioled ; leaflets about 7, an inch long or less, 

 oblong-lanceolate, acutish ; racemes very short-peduncled, dense 

 and cylindrical, 2 to 4 inches long, scarcely J inch in diameter, the 

 flowers very small, light blue ; abruptly falcate-incurved keel about 

 equalling the wings and only 2 or 3 lines long, the banner shorter; 

 ovary densely hirsute. 



A well marked and exceeding pretty lupine of the region of the 

 middle and upper Bear Creek, in the mountains of Colorado 

 directly west of Denver, growing in open woods among pines (P. 

 j)onderosa) ; collected by the writer in 1873, 1875, and again in 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



1889, and until recently supposed to be the L. parvijiorus Nutt., to 

 which, however, it can hardly be very closely related. 

 Lupinus gracilentus. 



Stems tufted, erect, slender, leafy, 2 feet high ; herbage green and 

 not conspicuously pubescent (scantily pilose or villous under a lens) • 

 lowest leaves on slender peduncles, 6 or 8 inches long, and with nar- 

 row, adnate, long-setaceous-pointed stipules ; leaflets about 7, linear- 

 falcate, acute, 2 inches long, more or less ; racemes terminal only, 

 and on long, slender, naked peduncles ; flowers in 4 to 6 distinct 

 verticils ; calyx-tube slightly gibbous at base ; corolla rather small 

 (4 or 5 lines long), blue; keel strongly falcate-acuminate, naked, 

 slightly surpassing the wings, these longer than the banner; ovary 

 hirsute; immature pods appressed-villous. 



In the Tuolumme Canon of the Sierra Nevada, California, 1889, 

 Messrs Chesnut and Drew. 

 Lupinus Covillei. 



Erect, stoutish, 2 or 3 feet high, the striate stems leafy up to the 

 subsessile, long raceme ; herbage rather light green, soft to the 

 touch, with a hirsute pubescence ; petioles about equalling the leaf- 

 lets, these about 9, linear-lanceolate, I2 to 2^ inches long; racemes 

 elongated, the flowers in distinct verticils ; bracts fully equalling the 

 flowers, linear-filiform, somewhat persistent ; calyx and pedicels 

 densely hirsute (as also the young pods) ; corolla purple, 5 inch 

 long, the banner slightly shorter than the Avings ; keel not strongly 

 falcate, naked, or with a few hirsute hairs below the tip. 



Near Farwell Gap, in the Sierra Nevada of California, at an alti- 

 tude of 10,000 feet, August 30, 1891, Messrs. Coville and Funston, 

 n. 1,746. The species is also in the State Survey collection, from the 

 same region, and was evidently mistaken for the far northern and 

 very different L. lepidus. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS, NO. 8. 



by thomas meehax. 



Euphrasia officinalis. 



Mr. Darwin, in his interesting work on "Cross and Self-fertiliza- 

 tion of Flowers" (1877), places this pretty little plant in the list of 

 those which have " become modified so as to insure self-fertilization." 

 Some additional information on the subject makes it worth while to 

 go over the whole matter again. 



The flowers are so abundantly fertile that one would at once infer 

 that it is self-fertilized, but the apparently strong proterogynous char- 

 acter of the flower leads to a suspicion that this impression is wrong. 

 The curved style is projected beyond the corolla before the latter is fully 

 expanded, appearing like a folded thread of silk, completely closing 

 the mouth. The stigma at the end of the incurved portion is bent 

 down onto or under the anthers which present it with pollen before 

 the flower has fully expanded. So early is the flower fertilized that 

 the pistil, having fulfilled its function, dies away almost immedi- 

 ately after the mouth of the corolla fully expands. The flower pre- 

 sents the remarkable phenomenon of a pistil dried up almost as soon 

 as the corolla is fully open. It seems evident that the pistil 

 matures long before the stamens, but the curvature of the style 

 keeps the stigma in contact with the stamens so that it cannot escape 

 fertilization. If the pistil were projected in a straight line, as is 

 usual in flowers, it is more than likely that aid would be required in 

 securing pollination. It does look as if the expression quoted from 

 Darwin, that the flower had been modified to ensure self-fertiliza- 

 tion, is in this instance literally correct. 



Notes on Gaura and CEnothera. 



Although in a general way, flowers of some species of Gaura and 

 allied genera are known to open toward evening, and with some 

 suddenness, so far as I know, no details of the phenomenon have been 

 recorded. Having plants of Gaura biennis and of G. parvifiora 

 within a hundred feet of each other, under nearly the same condi- 

 tions, I spent a week previous to the 20th of August in closely 

 watching them, with the view of noting any difference in the 

 behavior of the two closely allied species. 



Having come to look on those plants that are abundantly fruitful 

 as self-fertilizers, I was at first struck with the exceptional fruit- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



fulness of every flower in Gaura paj'vijlora. On one spike exam- 

 ined, 148 flowers had bloomed, and each had produced a perfect 

 capsule. Many more flowerbuds had yet to open. The result of 

 the observations showed that the j^lant is absolutely a self-fertilizer. 

 On every night of my observations the first blossoms commenced 

 to open at 7.15 o'clock, and by 7.30 all had opened that would open on 

 that evening. The expansion is so extremely sudden that it is only 

 with great difiiculty that the process can be observed. The eye can 

 be taken for an instant from one flower to another alongside, and 

 instantly back again, only to find that expansion has occurred. A 

 good magnifier is necessary to see the process distinctly. On ex- 

 pansion the petals stop when at a right angle with the axis, but the 

 sepals fly completely back on a line with the ovarium. Opening 

 some flowers at 7 o'clock, no pollen is visible, but the anther cells are 

 ruptured and abundantly jwllen-covered at expansion. AVe may 

 conclude that this act is simultaneous with the opening. The anthers 

 are held to the stigma by the gelatinous pollen, except an occasional 

 one that is held fast by the expanding petal or sepal, and drawn 

 over, which also shows that the anther cells rupture at the time of 

 expansion or a little before. As evening progresses the stamens 

 draw their anthers more or less away from 'the stigmas, but they 

 alone can fertilize the pistils. By a lamp, later in the evening, 

 small night moths are found about the flowers, and some moth hairs 

 on many of the glutinous stigmas show that the flowers have been 

 visited by them. The flowers commence to fade at daylight, the 

 stamens dropping first, then the pistil, and by 8 A. M. the petals 

 wither, unless the day be cloudy, when they continue a little longer. 

 The upper portion of the leaves of this species are vertical, the 

 result apparently of a continuation of the coiling tendency longer 

 than in some other plants, and without any physiological signifi- 

 cance. 



Gaura biennis. — In this species some open at 8 P. M. ; all are 

 open at 8.30 P. M., that are to expand that evening. They open 

 by jerks. First there is a sudden flying apart of the sepals, just 

 enough to show the pinkish-white petals, the openings being not 

 more than two lines in width. After about three minutes another 

 effort occurs, when both the sepals and petals are at right angles 

 with the axis. After another rest of about three minutes the sepals 

 fall back on the ovarium. An effort was made to encourage a 

 flower to open earlier in the evening by separating tlie sepals 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



with a pen-knife, but it had no eifect on the opening of the 

 flower till the regular opening time arrived. The stamens are 

 shorter than the style, so that at expansion the anthers are below 

 the stigma. The pistil remains erect, and the stamens fall without 

 the pollen coming in contact with the stigma, as far as I could trace. 

 The pistils droop by morning, when the under surface of the com- 

 pound stigma is usually found covered with pollen, as if it had 

 dropped from the anthers. A large number of species of night 

 moths attend the flowers during the night, and most of the flowers 

 have moth hair on the stigmas. It seemed probable that insect aid 

 had much to do with pollinating the flowers. 



The lower portions of the spikes are infertile, and this adds sus- 

 picion that insects are necessary to aid in the work of fertilization, 

 as they may not have been present or found the Gaura plants till 

 many flowers had fallen, but nearly all the later flowers are fertile. 

 Soon after daylight the stamens and style have withered, but the 

 petals do not collapse till 8 or 9 o'clock, and if the day be cloudy, 

 the petals will continue apparently fresh till noon. 



Aside from fixing the exact time and manner of the opening of 

 the flowers of these two species, there is a peculiar interest in the 

 fact that while the one is undoubtedly a strict self-fertilizer, its near 

 neighbor seems to be in a great measure dependent on insect agency, 

 and this remarkable difierence is apparently due merely to the fact 

 that, in comparison with the pistil, the stamens are a little longer 

 in the one species than in the other. 



Oenothera biennis. — I endeavored to ascertain the exact time and 

 manner of the opening of the flowers of CEnothera biennis, but 

 could not manage to catch it at the right moment. An interesting 

 fact well worth recordiiig, however, is that the anther cells burst when 

 the bud is comparatively young, long before expansion, covering 

 the stigma with the flower's own gelatinous pollen. The stigma is 

 not receptive at this time, but the pollen remains until it is, thus 

 insuring self-fertilization. 



The CaPv-pellary Structure op Xymph.ea. 



An abnormal flower of Nymphcea odorata from New Jersey, sent 

 to me by Mrs. Edward S. Sayres, of Philadelphia, indicates the manner 

 in which the carpels are formed. The place of the usual radiating stig- 

 mas was occupied by three petaloid processes, very suggestive of the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



pistils of an Iris. These were recurved as in the annexed diagram, 



U which shows a cross section of the three. 

 From this it would appear that the ovarium 

 is made up of a number of carpellary 

 .^ leaves of which the midribs form the axis. 



In the normal flower the compound ovary 

 is usually from 12- to 24-celled, according 

 to Gray's Genera; in this case but three 

 Transverse section of ^taioid carpcls werc attempted. In this genus the 



carpels, replacing the normal gyn- t i , .1 • n 1 



atciMm.\nNympha;aodoraia. tms betwceu the vai'ious tloral orgaus IS 

 very finely drawn. Petals, stamens, and the carpellary system with 

 its pistils run closely into each other. Hence the numbers in each 

 class of organs easily vary. It would not be wholly unexpected to 

 meet with cases in this or allied genera where the flowers would 

 have the pistils wholly aborted ; that is, the plants might produce 

 wholly staminate flowers. 



On THE Sexual Characters of Rhus. 



Exact botany suffers much from the want of care in the applica- 

 tion of terms, especially illustrated in the use of the words herma- 

 phrodite, dioecious, polygamous, and polygamo-dioecious, by differ- 

 ent authors in connection with the genus Bhus. There is a section 

 described as hermaphrodite, in which the mist tree of gardens, 

 Hhus cothioldes, is placed. But I have shown that this species is truly 

 dioecious.^ Chapman, in his " Flora of the Southern United States," 

 divides the North American species into two sections, one " Flowers 

 polygamous," the other " Flowers ditiecious." He places Rhus copal- 

 Una in the former section, leaving the dioecious section to the poison 

 Rhus, R. venenata^ and R. Toxicodendron. Don, in the " Gardener's 

 Dictionary," places Rhus copalUna in the dioecious section, with the 

 poison vines of Chapman, while Dr. Darlington, in " Flora Cestrica," 

 styles all the species "polygamo-dioecious." As these terms are 

 employed in the sectional characters, their use is perplexing to the 

 student. After a careful examination, extending over some years, 

 I have found no case in which an isolated plant produces seeds. 

 The plants are all truly dioecious, and the terms hermaphrodite and 

 polygamous aj)i)lied to any Rhus are misleading, and should be 

 abandoned. Often, isolated plants will be found in which the car- 



1 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, 

 Vol. XXII, pp. 73-75. 

 25 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



23els appear perfect, but are hollow by reason of not having been 

 fertilized. In some flowers the stamens appear antheriferous, and 

 this fact has probably led to the belief in hermaphroditism, but I 

 have never found one to be polliniferous. 



Close inspection this season of some twenty-four plants of Bhus 

 cojmllina, led to observations of a novel character, worth 

 recording. There were twenty-two female, and only two male 

 plants. There are three pistils in the female flower. One of 

 these is larger and deeper colored than the other two. These 

 two finally abort, only a single carpel reaches perfection. The 

 brown papery anthers are devoid of pollen, and have either no 

 filaments or very short ones. Between the staminate cycla and that 

 forming the gynoecium, are glands, seemingly an undeveloped series 

 of stamens. These exude a great abundance of sweet liquid, which 

 attracts honey-bees and other insects in large numbers. I have 

 counted twenty honey-bees at work at once on a single panicle, 

 many of them falling victims to the soldier beetle, Rfiduvius novena- 

 rius, which finds the Rhus a fertile hunting ground. 



The male flower is especially distinct from the female in having 

 no honey glands. The highly polliniferous anthers are on five long 

 exserted filaments. These filaments are erect, and the anthers 

 approach, forming a sort of crown, as if to protect the pistils which 

 are in a depauperate condition beneath. The profusion of golden 

 pollen is very conspicuous in these male flowers. In the female 

 flowers the sepals are ovate and spreading, while in the males they 

 are lance-linear and recurved. The rachis and pedicels are more 

 slender and longer than in the female. 



Considering the abundance of pollen, it would seem almost certain 

 that at some time or other pollen-gathering bees would visit the 

 male flowers, but whenever I saw them at work, it was only on the 

 female plants. The abundance of liquid from the floral glands 

 seemed an inducement to greater exertion, and watching these 

 creatures on lihu-i copallina, gave me, for the first time, the 

 impression that there were times when these ever industrious crea- 

 tures make special effort. 



The subject of the relation of insects to flowers naturally thrust 

 itself on my attention during these observations. Sweet secretions 

 in these flowers certainly can have no significance as a means of 

 insect attraction for the purposes of cross-fertilization, or of fertili- 

 zation of any character. Insects seem to serve no object of the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



plant in any direction whatever, while the female plant has to 

 depend on the wind for its fertilizing material. 



The sap between the bark and the wood, both in this and in other 

 species of Bhus, is very sweet and particularly abundant, and on the 

 slightest scratch, courses down the branches ; in gathering it 

 insects almost fight each other. The little exuding through the 

 glands seems the result of an eflbrt to get rid of a superabundance, 

 and without any special significance in the economy of the plant. 



RUBUS CHAM^MORUS. 



Authors have variously characterized this plant. Thus, Don 

 (1832) notes it as dioecious. Beck (1833) monoecious, while Michaux 

 (1803) and Torrey (1826) leave the inference that it is hermaphro- 

 dite. Lightfoot, in "Flora Scotica" (1787), says, "This plant is 

 dia?cious above ground, but, according to a curious observation 

 made by Dr. Solander, the roots of the male and the female unite 

 together under the earth so as to render the plant truly monoecious." 

 Dr. Gray (1867) regards the plant as dioecious. It did not mat- 

 ter so much, in the past generation, about special accuracy in these 

 particulars, but in more recent times, when these questions enter 

 largely into botanical philosophy, more accurate diagnoses are 

 desirable. Specimens brought to me by botanical friends at Seal 

 Harbor, Maine, show the plant to run extensively by underground 

 stolons; one flowering branch with dried flowers producing no fruit, 

 and another with berries from the same stolon, indicated that 

 Solander was right in giving it a monoecious character without, 

 however, the necessity of calling in underground grafting to 

 account for the phenomena. The male "canes" appear to have 

 been longer than the fruit-bearing ones. Dr. Gray, in the sixth 

 edition of the "Manual," makes a subsection in which this species 

 is placed, the flowers having a 5-lobed calyx. In all the specimens , 

 brought me each had but four lobes. Residents of Mt. Desert Island 

 call the fruit " baked apple berries." 



Dalibarda repens. 



No -author gives the slightest hint of any irregularities in the 

 flowers of Dalibarda repens, though its relative on the one side, 

 Rubm, has a monoecious representative in R. chamceniorus, and on the 

 other side in Fragaria chilemis, and often in F. virginiana. 



Confined to my room, at Seal Harbor, Maine, in August of the 

 present year, by temporary illness, good botanical friends, and espe- 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



cially Mr. John H. Red field, brought me generously large amounts 

 of fresh plants, their daily collections. One of these, which I 

 had no subsequent opportunity to see growing, was Dalibarda 

 repens. My observations are therefore, wholly from these few plants, 

 though the facts have been subsequently confirmed by Mr. 

 Redfield.^ 



The single flower on the four to five inch scape, was found wholly 

 staminate, the stamens being very numerous. The scape branched 

 at the base, having what we might term a pedicel of an inch or so 

 in length, recurving and bearing small cleistogene buds. These 

 were found to contain but five short stamens, and the anthers, pol- 

 liniferous, pressed down on the stigmas. These bud-bearing pedi- 

 cels grew into the rotten leaves beneath the foliage, and matured 

 the seed vessels beneath the surface, just as many violets do, 

 bringing to mind that Michaux"'s name of D. violceoides, was still 

 more expressive than even that author supposed. 



As many of these subterranean seed vessels were ripe, it shows 

 that cleistogamy commences quite early in the season, how early 

 has yet to be ascertained. The earliest ones, it would seem, must 

 have the flower on the 5-inch scape perfect, as the descriptions given 

 by authors, no doubt, were drawn from these, and are given as with all 

 the floral organs perfect. My rough notes, made on the spot, say, 

 " the female or fertile flowers, with becoming modesty, withdraw into 

 privacy beneath the ground, while the foppish male flowers seem to 

 have no oflice in life to perform but to make a show of themselves." 

 It may be remarked here, that in many cases of plants bearing 

 cleistogene and fertile flowers they at some time produce wdiat are 

 regarded as normally perfect flowers, and these are supposed to be 

 for the purpose of enabling the plant to get a chance to bear cross- 

 fertilized seed. But so many of these are wholly infertile, while 

 this Dalibarda is absolutely masculine, that it would seem that the 

 fact may be capable of some other explanation. 



On Some Morphological Distinctions in the Genera of 

 Ericaceae. 



The sub-orders of Ericaceic divide naturally into the free or the 

 adherent calyx with the ovary, but an examination of various mem- 

 bers of the order indicates a suppression or multiplication of series 



^ As these pages are going to press, Mr. Fedfield notes tliat Dr. Gray has 

 recorded the finding of Dalibarda repens cleistogene by Mr. Pringle. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



of organs, and the impressment of one set into the service of 

 another to such a degree that the morphologist will find little in an 

 original type to divide into sections. MonotT02ia uni flora represents 

 a section where the calyx is free from the ovary. The ovarium 

 is described as being 10-grooved, but it is evident that this grooving 

 is the result of ten staminal scales which have become adherent with 

 the ovarium. To describe the flower properly we might begin with 

 the 5-carpellate ovary. Though the "stigma" is usually described 

 as being single and funnel-form, it would seem that a strictly cor- 

 rect form of expression, from the morphological standpoint, would 

 be that there were five stigmas, united by a thin membrane into a 

 circular, web-like disk. In the flowers before me there are ten 

 stamens, but these are certainly in two series of five each, one set 

 rather larger, than the other. The upper and larger series alternate 

 with five of the scales, and press the anthers close up under the fine 

 stigmatic portions on the edge of the disk, and in this way effectu- 

 ally secure self-fertilization. The next series of five are shorter, 

 and always keep the anthers free from connection with the stigmas. 

 Both series of stamens, however, have the hairy filaments curved in 

 toward the ovarium as if they also would have become adherent 

 scales if they had had a fair chance. At the base of the ten sta- 

 mens, and alternate with them, are ten horn-like processes, evidently 

 each alternate one being slightly smaller than the other, represent- 

 ing two series which we may term either abortive stamens or abor- 

 tive petals, as suits best the morphological view. These, however, 

 curve outward and downward instead of inward, and should pos- 

 sibly be classed with the corolliferous rather than the staminal 

 system which, as above noted, possesses an incurved tendency. From 

 the apex of these glands, however, a lai'ge quantity of sweet liquid 

 exudes and they might be termed " nectaries," if there were any 

 separate place for such organs in the morphological type. There 

 are five petals and it is singular that three of these seem always 

 to be twisted, folding over each other from right to left while 

 one petal is usually backed by the two adjoining (imbricate) 

 plates, the edges of these almost meeting behind the petal which 

 they enclose. Outside of these we have the remains of five sepals, 

 varying so much in size that occasionally but two can be recognized. 

 It will be seen that this conception, as fortified by observa- 

 tion, makes the flower far less of a departure from the usual types 

 of Ericaceae, and places the genus more in harmony with its fel- 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



lows. Comparing the points here made with specimens of Gaylussacia 

 dumosa before me, the stigma may be seen to be disc-shaped, as in 

 Pyrola, with, however, ten stigmatic points on the margin of the 

 disc, indicating a 10-carpellary structure. The ten flat anthers 

 press closely against the style, and can be safely taken as the ana- 

 logues of the ten adherent scales through which the pistil seems to 

 protrude in Monotropa. 



Taking up now Pyrola rotundifolia, we find, in the earlier stages, 

 such a wheel-shaped disc in the stigma as may be seen in Mono- 

 tropa, but with age they advance beyond the membranous connec- 

 tive and thus give us the " 5-rayed stigma" of authors. 



If we now take up Moneses uniflora, the " ten stamens " are found 

 to be in series. Two of these series consist of three stamens each, 

 two series of but a single stamen each, but occasionally there are 

 two stamens in each of the latter sets, which make the full comple- 

 ment of ten, and we see here the tendency to a suppression of parts 

 is very strong. 



The whole lesson teaches the morphological unity of type in the 

 sections of Ericaceae to a greater degree than usually supposed, 

 and that the cohesion or freedom from cohesion of the various 

 cycles comprising the theoretical foliar system is the chief govern- 

 ins: influence in the formation of genera in the order. 



Vitality of Seeds. Lysimachia atropurpurea. 



That seeds will live long in the earth in many cases is a general 

 belief, but too frequently the facts presented are open to objection. 

 Direct and incontestible evidence is still desirable. I am accus- 

 tomed to sow seeds for the purpose of botanical examination and 

 for specimens. In 1886 I had a few plants from seeds of the European 

 annual, Lysimachia atropurpurea. After a study of the plant no 

 further seeds were collected. In the winter following, this part of 

 my garden was given up to building operations, and the earth filled 

 in, several feet in depth, over where the Lysimachia grew, and on 

 this large evergreens were planted. Last spring one of these ever- 

 greens was removed and a hole left, nearly two feet deep. In the 

 bottom of this hole a Lysimachia plant came up this summer. 

 There can be no other explanation than that the seeds had been 

 there six years, as no Lysimachia has been growing in my garden 

 since. 



For some days prior to August 22, I took the plant under close 

 examination from day to day. That plants do not grow continu- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



ously but advance from stage to stage by leaps — making consider- 

 able rests between the stages — is well illustrated by the flowers of 

 this plant. After the flower bud has reached a stage ready for 

 expansion, it rests for a day but the style continues to grow and 

 pushes through the closed flower bud to the extent of about two 

 lines. Then it rests, and the corolla opens and assumes an erect 

 canipanulate form. The stamens grow as the petals lengthen, but 

 continue growing for a day after the corolla is at rest, continuing till 

 they exceed the style, the anthers forming a close circle just above 

 the stigma, when they discharge their pollen over it. As every 

 flower is fertile, and the plant produces seeds profusely, I surmised 

 that the flowers must self-pollinate but the advance of the pistil, 

 w'ith its evidently receptive stigma, so long before the maturity of 

 the anthers, seemed theoretically against this view. In a large area 

 of these flowers, Avhere some plants in bloom would mature in 

 advance of the others, insects might convey the gelatinous pollen to 

 the exposed pistils on other plants. In this one specimen, hoAvever, 

 there were no insect visitors observed except an occasional sand 

 wasp, and the eflTect was only to help the stigma to its own pollen. 

 This plant was certainly self-fertile, though the conditions seem to 

 be such that it might be cross-fertilized under favorable circum- 

 stances. 



Campanula rotundifolia. 



A large branch of specimens, placed in water for a week, pre- 

 sented some remarkable variations. The lobes in most instances 

 were about one-fourth the depth of the campanulate corolla, in 

 some instances one-third. In one case the corollas on the stem Avere 

 cut to fully one-half their length, and the lobes spread so that with 

 a little more effort the corollas would have been rotate ! The flowers 

 of this species of Campanula are centrifugal, the terminal one 

 opening first. A number of these terminal flowers were 10-lobed 

 with ten stamens, still more with six lobes and six stamens, but the 

 majority were normal with five lobes and five stamens. In one flower 

 with five lobes, the five stamens had been transformed to petals, and 

 it is worthy of note that these five were separate and not united into 

 a monopetalous corolla similar to the outer series. On the same 

 stalk, another flower had two of the stamens somewhat petaloid 

 instead of antheriferous. Two other flowers on the same stalk were 

 normal. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Altbougli the flowers of Campaiiula rotuncUfoUa are classed as 

 pi'oterandrous, the pollen is not ejected from the anther cells till 

 after the corolla has opened and the hairy pistil has been developed 

 considerably beyond the line of the anthers, though most of the 

 genus seem to discharge tbeir pollen while still in the bud. The 

 stamens wither soon after the anthers have discharged their pollen. 

 In the flowers in this large branch the stigmas do not expand till 

 the fourth day after flowering. In the quiet atmosphere of the room 

 and in the absence of all insects that are usually considered aids in 

 fertilization, there seems to be no pollen on the stigmatic surfaces, 

 but capsules are all enlarging, and the young seeds swelling as if 

 the fertilization of the flowers had been perfected. It is difiicult to 

 believe that in some manner fertilization has not taken place. Only 

 the full ripening of the seed could positively prove this point. 

 ITnfortunately I had not the opportunity to test it. 



The variation of the color in the flowers of this branch may be 

 noted. During the week that I had them under observation, 

 there may have been between two and three hundred flowers. 

 vSome were nearly white, others of a rosy purple, the majority blue. 

 The observations were concluded on the 15th of July. 



CORNUS CANADENSIS. 



Some of the exotic species of Coruus are dioecious, but there is no 

 record of dioecism in auy of the American species. The plant is very 

 common on Mt. Desert Island. Near Northeast Harbor I spent 

 several hours, July 27th, examining these plants particularly, 

 amongst other things, and would frequently find large patches that 

 were evidently the production of several years by underground 

 stolons, entirely barren. Other patches would have a single berry 

 in the central portion of the cyme and all the others barren. 

 Other patches were abundantly prolific. It is a safe inference that 

 some plants are monoecious and others wholly dioecious. 



As it is well understood, the leaves are really in opposite pairs, the 

 verticil being formed by the suppression of the internodes and axil- 

 lary buds. One specimen was found in which two axillary buds 

 had produced branches, and these two again produced each two 

 more from their apices. These four branches were terminated by 

 four heads of flowers, each with its four milk-white bracts which in 

 the midst of so many companion plants with numerous red berries 

 had a unique effect. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



As in the great dogwood, Cornus florida, some of the bracts are 

 shaded from light-rose to deep pink, as appeared from some belated 

 flowering plants. 



The so-called "bracts" of these species of Conin.^, as I have 

 noted elsewhere, are not true bracts but merely simulate them. 

 They are flower bud scales which bave taken on renewed growth, 

 carrying along the earlier formation which, during the winter, acted 

 as a bud scale and which, in the spring season, gives the dark obtuse 

 apex to the " bract." 



Aralia hispid a. 



An interesting feature in many plants is that while the inflores- 

 cence, as a whole, may be centripetal the flowers tliemselves are 

 centrifugal. Aralia hispida is a good illustration. While the ter- 

 minal umbel is the first to flower, the flowers themselves in each 

 umbel are centrifugal. 



Of special interest in this species is the fact that while all the 

 male flowers have but five stamens, fully one-fourth of the female 

 flowers have six carpels. 



LUZULA CAMPESTRIS. 



The appendages at the base of the seeds in some species of 

 Luzula are well known. It occurred to me to endeavor to ascertain 

 their special function. No theoretical conception as to their func- 

 tion or place in the economy of plant life could be satisfactorily 

 formed. A novel point seemed to be that long after the flower stalk 

 had become dry, and the valves of the capsules expanded, the seeds 

 were held in place by the appendage, hanging loosely from side to 

 side as the capsule might be turned about. While so many plants 

 have arrangements for projecting seeds from the capsules, it seemed 

 remarkable that this should be specialized to retain them. 



CakILE AMERICANA. 



The flowers being unexceptionally fertile led me to infer that they 

 were self pollinate. Examining a large number at Atlantic City in 

 the middle of June, I found this to be the case. The anthers press 

 against the stigma and cover it with their own pollen before the 

 bud expands. A remarkable feature in the Atlantic City flowers is 

 the comparatively small size of the petals, and in a large number 

 of flowers only a single pair of petals are produced, the flowers los- 

 ino- in these cases their cruciferous form. At Seal Harbor, Maine 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



a month later, no bipetalous flowers were noticed, but the same fer- 

 tilization in the imexpanded flower occurred. The Maine plants 

 have a more zigzag habit of growth, and the leaves are more den- 

 tate (in many cases pinnatifid), than in the Atlantic City plants. 



Hypericum ellipticum. 



Generic characters, like those of species, are often found running 

 so close together that it is difficult to draw a dividing line. No one 

 Avould question the propriety of separating Ascijrion and Hyperi- 

 cum : Ai-cyrum, " sepals four, very unequal ;" Hypericum, " sepals 

 five, somewhat equal." In this species there are really but four 

 sepals, but a minute bract does duty as a fifth sepal. The sepals are 

 almost as unequal as those of any species of A-^cyrum could be. 



Trifolium hybridum. 



So much has been said of the relations between insects and the 

 flowers of clover that more would seem superfluous, but of Trifolium 

 hyhridum, the Alsike or Swedish clover, few observations have been 

 specially recorded. Of late years this species has become common 

 on Mt. Desert Island, at least it is very common about Seal Harbor, 

 where the unusual beauty and fragrance of the flowers press it 

 closely on our attention. Observing that every flower seemed fer- 

 tile, I anticipated self-fertilization, and found that this was the case. 

 In the unopened bud, just before the expansion of the petals, the 

 stamens and pistils are of equal length. The anthers press closely 

 against the stigmatic surface of the pistil and discharge the pollen 

 therein before the flower opens. After expansion the flattened keel 

 presses and keeps pressed together the stamens and pistil, prevent- 

 ing any exposure at any time. The stamens and pisti] remain thus 

 entombed through life, dying eventually in each other's arms. If an 

 insect or the thumb nail be pressed against the base of the keel the 

 pistil and stamens are set free, but only to expose the pollen-covered 

 stigma. Many species of plants have their stamens and pistils so 

 arranged that, though close fertilization is the rule, the use of for- 

 eign pollen is not an absolute impossibility, though, when we con- 

 sider how few seeds of a crop ever get a chance to grow again, 

 the physiological value of an occasional cross on a seed which has 

 small chance of ever growing is not apparent. But even this 

 chance is lost to this species of clover as found growing here in 

 July, for the abundant fertility is certainly due to self-pollination, 

 and cross-fertilization is wholly out of the question. Bees do not 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



seem abundaut in this locality. Only a small species of bumble- 

 bee was observed at any time, and none visiting these clover Howers. 



Lathyrus maritimus. 



I have pointed out in previous contributions that Avhen leaf- 

 growth is arrested to form bud-scales, sepals, or petals, the laminal 

 portion or blade usually becomes effete, and it is usually the stipular 

 portions or dilated bases of the leaves that are transformed to do 

 the protective work. In Lathyrus maritimus this is particularly 

 obvious, the large stipules being fully formed, and acting as pro- 

 tectors of the young buds, even before the rest of the leaf-blade is 

 developed. If no leaf-blade proper were produced at all, and the 

 axial growth arrested, these stipules would be reduced, and then 

 properly be termed bud scales. 



Many species of Lathyrus are on record as being self-fertilizers. 

 No note seems to have been made of L. viaritimus. At Seal Harbor 

 every flower seemed fertile, indicating self-fertilization. Unless the 

 flowers are disturbed the stamens and pistil remain to the last wholly 

 enclosed by the keel. When, however, a visiting insect presses the 

 keel downward, the upper portion of the style projects considerably 

 beyond the apex of the keel, but the stamens remain wholly included. 

 An insect in search of honey, covered with pollen beneath, might 

 then easily cross-fertilize the flowers, but as the anthers seem never 

 exposed in these flowers, so far as I could ascertain, there is no pollen 

 collected by the bee for transmission to another flower. A pecul- 

 iarity of this species seems to be that the vexillum presses down and 

 clasps the keel in the earlier stages of anthesis, preventing the 

 ingress of insects, and it is only in the later stages, after self-fertil- 

 ization has been fully accomplished, that the vexillum becomes 

 erect, and the entrance of insects permitted. This species will have 

 to be classed with those already admitted to be absolutely self- 

 fertile. 



LONICEEA CaCRULEA. 



It is many years since I handed to our good friend Professor Asa 

 Gray, some evidence, as I supposed, questioning the soundness of 

 the belief that leaf blade has its primary origin at the node from 

 Avhich it seems to spring. The sententious reply I shall never for- 

 get, "nevertheless, I maintain that decurrence is decurrence." For 

 all the overshadowing eminence of this great and good man facts 

 continually come before me that seem inexplicable under the 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



accepted hypothesis. It seems to me that the origin of leaf-blade 

 must be at some indefinite place below the point of depai'ture from 

 the axis, and that "decurreuce" is simply the eflect of an irregular 

 meeting of the edges of the clasping leaves. In the case of plants 

 which have the young branches square or flat-stemmed, but round 

 in their after stages, it would seem that the only way of accounting 

 for it is by conceiving the union of the edges of the blades as they 

 clasp the stem. 



An examination of some specimens of Lonicem cm-uJea brought 

 me at Seal Harbor by Mr. Redfield July 22nd, clearly demon- 

 strated that this was the case. The growth of the present year is 

 square-stemmed. In cutting the stems across, mid-way between 

 the nodes, the eosta of superposing leaf is clearly seen. The scales, 

 at the termination of the season's growth suggest this behavior also. 

 They are boat-shaped, evidently formed from a theoretically dilated 

 base, and meet by their edges. Later on, incipient leaf-blades may be 

 seen starting from their terminal points. That with a little modifica- 

 tion these scales could have been elongated, beconie united at the 

 edges, closely clasp the real bark, and then by the formation of leaf- 

 blade diverge at the node, seems so plausible that there is little 

 doubt that this has been the process during the vigorous growing 

 season. 



I have shown elsewhere that the rifting of bark is not a mechani- 

 cal operation due to the growth expansion of the stem, but that pro- 

 vision is made in true bark for this rifting by the formation of 

 suber cells which develop after a certain number of years have 

 elapsed, and which disintegrate the bark and thus permit the 

 expansion of the wood beneath. Every ligneous plant has, by a 

 specific growth of these suber cells, its own special manner of pro- 

 viding for the opening of its bark. In Lotiicera nernlea and similar 

 plants with square stems, or decurrent leaves on the young growth, 

 there are none of the suber cells on the external epiderm which truly 

 formed bark should have. In the specimens brought me the " square " 

 or external layer had not been thrown oflT, and by a little help from 

 the knife, I was able to detach the whole from a branched specimen, 

 just as if it had been a paper mask. This epiderm, having no cork 

 cells, has to burst by drying or by the expansion of the woody axis, 

 and the rupture is down the weakest line of union, namely, where 

 I have conceived the hypothetical union of the edges to have been. 

 The square stem is then changed to a round one, the epiderm of 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



which is strewn with minute ovoid nests of cork cells. From the 

 well ascertained facts as to the manner of bark formation the outer 

 epiderm could not possibly have been formed in the same manner 

 as the hypoderm, namely, by the differentiation of the horizontal 

 cells, but could only have originated from an independent exoge- 

 nous growth, such as a supposititious enclosure by a clasping leaf- 

 blade could produce. Aside from these considerations the contin- 

 uity of the nerves in this intra-nodal sheath with the nerves of the 

 leaf-blade indicated, clearly shows the identity of their origin. 



It may be said in brief that while plants, generally, in their first 

 year's growth, have only two separate systems — wood and a single 

 layer of bark — a section of Lonicem ccerulea, and plants constructed 

 on a similar plan, have three, the outer layer of which, by the absence 

 of suber cells and other characteristics, clearly is not true bark. 

 There seems to me little doubt but square-stemmed annual growths 

 or the appearance of decurrence on growing stems, is due to the 

 fact that the leaves have really originated below the point from 

 which they seem to emerge, and that the angularity or decurrence 

 is due to the more or less imperfect meeting of the edges of these 

 leaves when clasping the stem. 



Raphanus sativus. 



The garden radish is admittedly self-fertile, but noting on the 

 14th of August an unusually large number of the cabbage butterfly 

 (Pieris rapce), as well as several other Lepidoptera, about them, I 

 was led to make an extended observation with some novel results. 

 There were a large number of plants in the row under observation, 

 and the remarkable difference in fertility in the different plants, 

 first attracted my attention. In some cases, possibly three-fourths 

 of the flowers had produced seed vessels, in others, about half, while 

 some plants had only a few scattered pods. As the plants were still 

 flowering freely, good opportunity was afforded to see how far sexual 

 conditions might influence these several characteristics. There were 

 found some remarkable morphological peculiarities worth noting. 



In one flower one of the basal glands had developed to a perfect 

 pistil, which was half the length of the normal one ! As there have 

 been different views of the nature of these glands, may we not regard 

 them as undeveloped axilhiry l)uds? In this flower instead of four 

 long and two short, the whole six stamens were of equal length. 



Another flower had but three long stamens, and these a little 

 longer than the pistil at this stage of blossoming. Of course in this, 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



as in many cruciferse, the capsule elongates after petals and stamens 

 fall. The two short stamens were normal. 



Another flower, in addition to the normal six stamens had two of 

 the petals antheriferous. There was but a very slight attempt at 

 petal bearing. It is worthy of note that the insertion of these 

 antheriferous petals was much more nearly opposite the glands than 

 usual, indicating that a disturbance of the spiral growth co-existed 

 with the abnormal condition of the petals. 



Thi'ee flowers had a third gland. In one flower the third gland 

 was only half the size, but in other respects similar to the others; 

 in the other two the extra glands were long and horn-like, as if they 

 were partially developed pistils. 



Another flower had three long and three short stamens. Two 

 flowers were found with three series of stamens, each series of two, of 

 different length. In these the upper pair curved inward, touching 

 the stigma by the upper portion, the anthers, however, recurving 

 from the pistil. 



A flower with four glands was another surprise. One of the two 

 normal ones was unusually large and 5-lobed at the apex. The 

 two extra glands are between the shorter pair of filaments. 



Another had the four long filaments colored like the petals, while 

 the filaments of the two short were white and transparent. 



It is well to note that while the insertion of the short stamens is 

 always under the normal glands, the extra glands are between the 

 pairs, indicating that they belong to a distinct cycle from the other 

 two. 



Examining the flower-bud while comparatively young, a unicel- 

 lular transparent hair is found at the apex of each sepal, which is 

 early deciduous, leaving a bulb-like base, which might easily 

 become a " gland " under some morphological change. 



The upper portions of the filaments connive, and might without 

 close examination be regarded as united. It may be noted that on 

 the opening of the flower the lower portion of the sepals separate 

 first, leaving the upper portions to connive to the last. In some 

 flowers the sepals remain united to the last, and are monosepalous. 



In a number of plants which had only a few seed pods on them, 

 the anthers were evidently barren. These plants have had these 

 few fertile flowers polleuized by insects. In other plants the four 

 long stamens would be barren, while the two short stamens would 

 have abundant pollen. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



The conclusiou left on the micd of the observer was that some 

 plants of the radish were arranged for self-fertilization, and others 

 required the intervention of insects, but that this so-called 

 "arrangement" was brought about through various phases of nutri- 

 tion affecting the growth of different portions of the plant, and in 

 which special arrangements for fertilization had no primary place. 



On the Is^ature of the Verrucje in Some Convolvulace.i:. 



The stems of some Convolvulacese, notably the one in common 

 cultivation as " Moon-flower " ( Calonydion speciosum Choisy, Ipomcea 

 Bona nox Linnaeus), are verrucose. No explanation of the nature or 

 functions of these warty processes has ever been given, so far as the 

 knowledge of the writer extends. Horticulturists who have given 

 any thought to the matter have regarded them in the light of 

 attempts at root formation or as somewhat akin to the rootlets along 

 the branches of ivy ; but these have been only passing impressions. 

 A critical examination, however, shows that they have no central 

 system, as true rootlets have, nor have they a root-cap, as we find 

 on genuine fibres. 



It occurred to me to note the behavior of Ci(f<ci(ta, when grow- 

 ing where it could not readily find a host plant. It produces haus- 

 toria ready to fasten on its victim when the opportunity might offer. 

 The structure of these processes and those of Calonydion seem 

 identical. As it must be conceded that Cuscuta is a genus of 

 degenerate Convolvulaceie, or rather a genus of plants that has 

 come in the course of ages to be able to live on other plants, it does 

 not seem improbable that these seeming excrescences on the Calo- 

 nydion may be incipient haustoria, and that in the future other 

 Convolvulacete ])esides Cmcuta may become parasitic. It must be 

 said, however, that in many examinations I have made where these 

 supposititious haustoria have been brought into close contact with 

 other growing vegetation to such an extent, in some instances, as 

 not to afford room for the usual longitudinal development, the 

 excrescences have become flattened rather than make any attempt 

 to penetrate the tissue of the a[)proximating plant. This, however, 

 may not militate against the supposition that these warty excres- 

 cences are incipient haustoria, unless the proposition that in plants 

 environment, or more properly, perhaps, environment to a great 

 extent, is the leading factor in the evolution of characteristic forms. 

 Such a proposition, to my mind, implies that the change in form 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



should be responsive at once to the force that induced it. One can 

 scarcely imagine a change in form to occur in a plant, responsive to 

 irritation received from external causes by its ancestors hundreds, 

 perha|)S thousands, of generations previous. But if we take the 

 succession of forms we know to have occurred, and know to have 

 been evolved from closely related forms, as following in obedience 

 to some law of growth as yet hidden from us, w'e can have no diffi- 

 culty in suspecting that when the fulness of time shall arrive these 

 analogues of haustoria will have full parasitic functions. 



Polygonum cilinode. 



In a few instances, by no means common, I found July 12th 

 at Seal Harbor, Mt. Desert Island, branches of Polygonum cilinode, 

 which instead of being climbing were sarmentose, and, bending 

 over, had rooted at the tip and formed a large terminal bud as we 

 find in some species of Bit bus. Many were found of a sarmentose 

 or trailing habit, with no disposition to climb, though the facilities 

 for climbing were within reach. In among the ramifications of the 

 roots of these rooting tips were numerous cleistogene flowers, perfect- 

 ing sometimes wholly underground. The flowers in the climbing 

 branches are of two kinds as I have noted in other Polygonums, one 

 always closed and fertile, the other open, apparently perfect in all 

 respects, but barren. The inflorescence is formed of continuously 

 branching axillary buds, and the only check to a further contin- 

 uance of growth, seems to be exhaustion. The growth ends with 

 depauperate buds. The species is evidently on the border line evolu- 

 tionarily speaking between the merely upright and the climbing 



species. 



Aster tatarica. 



This Asiatic species exhibits in its inflorescence a curious mixture 

 of characters separate in other species. The upper portion of the 

 panicle is corymbose and comprises about a dozen flowers, wdiich 

 are centripetal, the central flower opening first. The flowers are 

 quite gay w'ith their numerous violet-colored rays. The lower 

 flowers on the outer branches of the corymb, are, however, rayless; 

 beloW' this corymb is a conical panicle of a foot or more in length. 

 The lower branches of this panicle extend six inches or more, and 

 these lateral branches gradually shorten till they are scarcely an 

 inch long. These branches are all centripetal in their growth from the 

 central axis, but the flowers are centrifugal. In all the upper flowers, 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



385 



those on the shorter branches of the panicle are discoid, as are the 

 lateral ones on the branchlets. 



The explanation seems to involve the question of rhythmic growth. 

 Rest had been nearly reached at the point represented by the 



apex of the cone, when the new flow of growth resulted in the 

 terminal corymb. 



To form the centripetal character of the inflorescence the axillary 

 buds remain at rest until the branch has reached its final length, 

 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



when the growth wave returns, starting each bud again to develop- 

 ment in this reflex action. As it is the lower' and more slender 

 pedicelled flowers which are discoid, nutrition has evidently- 

 determined the absence of rays, but whether this point was decided 

 during the upward or the reflex movement of the growth-wave could 

 not be determined, though the former seems the most probable. 



The annexed figure from the dried specimen on the table shows 

 the conical growth of the panicle almost to a rest, and the 

 subsequent resumption of active growth to form the terminal 

 corymb. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



PRELIMINARY OUTLINE OF A NEW CLASSIFICATION OF THE HELICES. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



For several years the writer has been accumulating data bearing 

 upon the natural classification of the Helicoid land snails. It has 

 been thought desirable to place before students of this group some 

 of the general results attained, and to invite their friendly crit- 

 icism. 



It will be understood that the consideration of many important 

 points, such as the relations of Helices to certain Bulimoid groups, 

 must be omitted from so brief and synoptical a paper as this ; the 

 author's aim being simply to place before malacologists the outlines 

 of a classification essentially modern and essentially original. It 

 can scarcely be expected that an arrangement in which most of the 

 traditions of our Fathers in Conchology have been disregarded, 

 will prove acceptable to all, or, indeed, in all respects worthy of 

 acceptance ; but it is hoped that it will be found an improvement 

 on'previous systems. 



The anatomical details of numerous groups herein for the first 

 time described will be figured in the author's more elaborate work 

 now in preparation, to be issued in 1893.^ 



The notes given below under each genus must not be taken for 

 complete generic diagnoses. I hold that for the establishment of 

 genera the characters of the shell must be taken into account, as 

 ■well as those of the genital system and of the jaw and lingual 

 ribbon. For the formation of groups higher than genera, certain 

 modifications of the genitalia seem to be most constant and availa- 



^The principal authorities consulted are the following : 



Binney, W. G., Terr. Moll. U. S. vol. V, etc. 



Pfeffer, Georg, Beitr. zur Kenntniss Mex. 1. u. fr.-w. Conch., etc. 



Fischer, Paul, Numerous papers in the Jour, de Conch, and Moll. Mex. et 

 Guat. 



Hedley, Chas., Proc. Roy. Soc. Queensl. and Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. W. 



Hutton, F. W., Trans. N. Z. Institute. 



V. Ihering, H., Morphol.u. Syst. des Genit. von Helix. This paper, the ersf^r 

 Thiel of which is before me. is a very valuable one and indispensable to the stu- 

 dent of Pulmonale morphology. 



Lehmann, Die Lebenden Schn. Stettins. 



Pilsbry, H. A., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888-1892, 



Schmidt, A., Des Geschlechtsap. der Stylom. 



Schako, G., Numerous papers. 



Semper, C, Reisen im Archip. Phil. LandmoU. 



Suter, H., Trans. N. Z. Institute. 



Tapparone Canefri, C, Annali Mus. Civ. Genova. 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



ble. Before proceeding with the descriptions of genera it may be 

 well to describe briefly the organs to be discussed. 



In the accompanying figure, representing the genitalia of Helix 



-sp. 



CanicEneUa platyodon Pfr. 



platyodon Pfr., a species of the island of Hainan, the male system 

 is seen branching toward the right, the female system toward the 

 left. The systems unite below, forming the vestibule or atrium, 

 sometimes called genital cloaca (c^.) ; and they are also united 

 above; the hermaphrodite gland or ovotestis, gWmg off both sper- 

 matozoa and immature ova which travel through the much convo- 

 luted hermaphrodite duct or ovisperm duct, to the base of the 

 albumen gland, where the duct separates into oviduct and vas- 

 deferens. 



The jDe»t*s {p) is in its simplest form a muscular sack receiving 

 the vas-deferens (v. d.) and the retractor muscle (r. p.) at its sum- 

 mit. There are often developed upon the penis one or more of the 

 following accessory organs: (1) the appendix,^ a glandular or 

 flagellum-like organ inserted at the middle or near the base of the 

 penis sack (see this volume, plate 13, fig. F, at x, x.') ; (2) the 

 penis-papilla (see p. p. of the annexed figure) seen only by splitting 

 the muscular penis wall. This papilla is perforated near its base 

 for the exit of the spermatophores ; (3) the epiphallus^ (ejoi.), a 



'See V. Ihering, Morphol. u. Syst. Helix.'i, p. 396. 



^In the epiphallus the spermatozoa are gathered into variously covered niasses,''or 

 spermatophores. Simroth calls the corresponding organ in the slugs the " Patro- 

 nensirecke." 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



slender continuation of the penis backward, extending to the inser- 

 tion of the vas-deferens, and usually continuing beyond this inser- 

 tion as a flagellum. The retractor is sometimes situated upon the 

 epiphallus instead of at the apex of the penis itself, this arrange- 

 ment being shown in the figure here given. (4) The flagellum (fl.) 

 a whip-lash shaped organ inserted upon either the summit of the 

 penis or upon the epiphallus. The female system consists of the 

 vagina (v.), which bifurcates to form the spermatheca or receptacu- 

 lum seminis (sp.), and the uterus, a sacculated organ often containing 

 eggs or young in various states of development. Surmounting the 

 uterus is the albumen secreting gland, at the base of which the 

 hermaphrodite duct enters the oviduct and vas-deferens. Besides the 

 organs above described, the female system in some groups possesses 

 a dart sack or sacks secreting a dart, and one or two mucous glands, 

 these organs being inserted upon the vagina. Another organ of 

 rare occurrence is the ap2ye)idicula, an elongated simple diverticulum 

 also emptying into the vagina. This diverticulum is supposed by 

 \. Ihering to be homologous with the appendix of the male system ; 

 and it is certainly strong evidence of the correctness of his view 

 that no form yet known possesses both appendix and appendicula. 

 It is further held by him that the dart sack in ZonitidcB is the 

 homologue of the appendix ; but this theory requires before adop- 

 tion much stronger evidence than has been given. 



From the foregoing it will be seen that the following points should 

 be carefully observed when dissecting the genitalia of Helices: 

 Shape of the penis and presence or absence of internal pajnlla and 

 external appendix; presence or absence of flagellum or epiphallus; 

 point of insertion of the retractor muscle and of the vas deferens. 

 Upon the female system should be noticed the absence or presence 

 and form of dart sacks, darts, mucous glands or appendicula; the 

 length of the spermatheca duct ; the form of the coeca of the ovo- 

 testis and whether they are imbedded in the liver or free ; and 

 finally whether the right eye-peduncle is retracted between the 

 branches of the genitalia or to the left side. 



The flagellum, the dart sack and accompanying mucous glands, 

 and the diverticulum upon the spermatheca duct may be regarded as 

 structures developed since the differentiation of the Helices from 

 other stocks ; but the appendix and probably the appendicula, when 

 present, have been inherited from that primordial stock from which 

 the Helicidse, Pupidte, Bulimi etc. have diverged. As is sometimes 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



tlie case witli ancient characters, we find these features retained in 

 a number of very dissimilar genera. 



The characters and value of the jaw as a basis for classification 

 have been much misunderstood in the past, and even yet there are 

 a number of unsettled questions concerning it. On some points, 

 however, we may speak with considerable confidence. One such is 

 the fact that ^/ie strongly ribbed type of jatv (odontognath) inter- 

 grades by impercejytible stages with the entirely smooth, Zonites-like 

 type (oxygnath). Examples illustrative of this dictum are numer- 

 ous, the restricted section Caracolus of Eastern Cuba and Haiti 

 and the section Dentellaria being unquestionable instances of inter- 

 gradation, some species of each of these groups being typically 

 oxygnathous, others being pronouncedly odontognathous. To 

 W. G. Binney is due the credit of first pointing out the fact and 

 insisting upon its implications. The writer has confirmed it by 

 the examination of numerous additional species. It is hardly 

 needful to say that in many groups of Helices, odontognathy and 

 oxygnathy are therefore controvertible terms, as far as classification 

 is concerned, and consequently cannot be used for the separation of 

 genera or even subgenera, unless supported by other and more 

 stable characters.* 



The jaw composed of a number of separate and similar squarish 

 plates, more or less overlapping at the outer edges (such as that of 

 Pundum), is comparable to an unsoldered jaw of the plaited (or 

 stegognath) type. 



Primarily the Helicoids are divisible into a number of groups, as 

 follows: 



Eggs or young very large at birth (1 to 5 the diameter of the adult 

 shell) Group I, Macroon. 



Eggs or young smaller or minute at birth. 



a. 9 genital system having a dart sack and mucous gland. 



Group II, Belogoxa.^ 

 aa. 9 system lacking accessories ; ^ system with flagellum 

 and appendix on penis ; no epiphallus. 



Group III, Teleophalla. 



*In some species of Dentellaria the sculpture of the jaw is not even constant 

 as a specific character. 



5The terms " Haplogon " and " Belogon " were ptoposed by v. Ihering, Mor- 

 phol. u. Syst. Geniialapparales Helix, i, p. 401, 402. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



aaa. 9 system lacking accessories; $ system having epi- 

 phalluson penis; no appendix. 



. Group IV, Epipiiallophora. 

 aaaa. 9 and 2' genital systems lacking all accessory organs. 

 b. Jaw soldered into one piece. 



Groxip V, Haplogona.* 

 hh. Jaw composed of 16-24 separate plates. 



Group VI, POLYPLACOGNATHA. 



Group I, MACROON Pilsbn. 



Manual of Conchology (2), VI, p. 57, 1890. 



« 



Arboreal or ground living' Helicoids, reproducing by eggs of 

 relatively very large size (one-fourth to over one-third the diameter 

 of the adult shell) and few in number; sometimes viviparous. 

 The embryonic shell is correspondingly large, and sculptured differ- 

 ently from the subsequent growth. Some genera now classed with 

 the Bulimi may prove to belong here, besides the following : 



Genus ACAVUS Montfort. 



Oviparous ; genital organs lacking all accessory appendages ; 

 duct of the sperraatheca short. Jaw smooth. Teeth all simply 

 unicuspid. 



Subgenus PYROCHILUS Pilsbry.7 



This group will probably prove to be a section or subgenus of 

 the Ceylonese genus, as Dr. v. Moellendorff has pointed out. It is 

 still unknown anatomically. 



Genus STYLODONTA C. <fe J. 



Viviparous ; 9 genital system lacking accessory appendages, but 

 $ system having a flagellum upon the penis ; duct of the sperma- 

 theca long. Jaw not ribbed. Median teeth unicuspid, but margi- 

 nals bluntly trifid. 



Distribution : Seychelles Islands. 



Genus HELICOPHANTA Fer. 



Group II, BELOGONA. 



Female genitalia provided with one or two dart-sacks and mucous 

 glands. 



'This name is proposed to supersede Phania Albers, 1860, that term being pre- 

 occupied for an apparently valid genus of Diptera described by Meigen in 1824. 

 Type, Helix pyrostoma. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Jaw coarsely ribbed (odontognath), finely ribbed (pycnognatb), or 

 smootb (oxygnath). 



The appendages of the $ system mentioned above are developed 

 in no other group of Helices.* 



Genus HELIX Linne (restricted). 

 Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1891, p. 313. 



Genitalia : 9 system having a dart-sack or sacks containing 

 darts, a pair of mucous glands or one, the spermatheca duct long 

 and provided with a long diverticulum ; $ system having a flagel- 

 lum upon the penis, and rarely an appendix. 



Jaw stout, strongly ribbed. Teeth of the radula normal. 



Sliell various ; animal reproducing by many small eggs. 



Onlv in the more highly organized species are all the above 

 characters of the genitalia developed. In many sections of the 

 genus several of the accessory organs may be absent. I am dis- 

 posed to think that in some cases the genital system has arrived at a 

 simple condition by degeneration or loss of the accessory organs. 

 It is upon this ground that I admit Cressa ^yest. {Pseudocam- 

 pylcea Hesse, non Pfr.) to the genus. 



The genus is more numerous in species than any other ; and a 

 large number of subgeneric and sectional groups have been institu- 

 ted for their classification. The anatomy of a great number of 

 species has been in%'^estigated, and a sufficient basis of facts is known 

 to enable us to divide the genus into several well-marked subgenera, 

 all of which are represented in the Palsearctic Region, which has 

 been, no doubt, the birth-place of this type. As it is not my pur- 

 pose to enter into the question of the subdivision of this genus 

 here, I will simply enumerate the leading groups in the several 

 geographical regions, viz. : (1) Eur-African, (2) East-Asiatic, 

 and (3) American. 



The Eur-African area comprises the greatest variety of types, 

 both recent and fossil, and the genus doubtless originated and 

 developed its peculiarities therein. The more pi'ominent subgenera 

 or sections are as follows : Arianta, Campykea, Elona, Chilotrema, 

 Isognovxostoma^ Pomatia, Eremina, Macularia, Tachea, Iberus, 

 Hemicycla, Leptaxis, Plebecula, Eulota, Friitieicola, Euparypha, 

 Xerophila, including many sections and a vast number of species, 



^v. Ihering holds, I believe coirectly, that the so-called darts of Zonitida are 

 not homologous with those of these Helices. 

 "See Pilsbry, Journ. de Conchyl., 1891, p. 22. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 393 



and finally the peculiar forms of the Atlantic Islands: Ochthephila, 

 Tectula, Craspedaria, etc., etc. 



Here, too, belong the tertiary Helices which authors have always 

 referred to Cory da, Geotrochus, etc., such as H. rugulosa, crepidos- 

 toma, hohemica, Jiortulaua, etc., etc. The sadly mis-nanied sub- 

 genera Dentellocaracohis and Prothelidomus of Oppenheim also 

 fall into the restricted genus Helix, near Macularla and Leptaxis, 

 Hemicyda, etc. Boettger has criticised Oppenheim on the conchol- 

 ogy of his " Palaontologisch-Zoogeograpliische Stiidie," but his 

 zoo-geographical conclusions and implications are even more erron- 

 eous. It is time that we heard the last of this habit of going to 

 the ends of the earth to find subgenera for the European fossil 

 Helices I With the exception of a few divergent branches which 

 apparently have left no descendants, all of the European tertiary 

 Helices belong to subgenera still occupying some part of the Pal?e- 

 arctic realm, or at farthest the Holarctic area. The supposed 

 Corasia, Chlorcea, Eurycratera, Coryda, Dentellaria, Obba, Lhloritis, 

 Thelidomus, Mesodon, Triodopsls, etc., which have been reported 

 from the Eocene, Oligocene and Miocene of Europe, belong in no 

 case to those groups, but, for the greater part to the genus Helix 

 as above restricted. Many of them can readily be referred to 

 recent subgenera and sections, such as Campylcea, Gonostoma, 

 and especially to that primitive stock called " Pentat£enia " by 

 Schmidt and Sandberger, from which sprung the Tachea, Macula- 

 ria, etc., of the recent fauna. 



The East Asian area of distribution is in reality connected with 

 the Eur-African, by way of Siberia, but as the species of the inter- 

 mediate region are few on account of its at present unfavorable 

 climatic conditions, the connection is not eflfective in preventing 

 divergence of types. We therefore find that the East Asian forms 

 belong mainly to distinct subgenera or sections. The European 

 Eulota, however, is very closely allied to Dorcasia (+ Acxista) of 

 Asia ; and the Chinese section Metodontia Mlldff. is scarcely separ- 

 able from Petasia (H bidens, etc.) of Europe. We also find closely 

 allied species of Vallonia, Carocolina, etc., inhabiting China and 

 Europe. Besides the above mentioned groups, the following are to 

 be referred here as sections of Helix : Pledotropis Alb., Aegista 

 Alb.,'" Cathaica jMoell., Satsuma Ads., Euhadra Pils. (type H. pel- 

 iomphala Pfr.). 



»«See Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1892, p. 214, pi. 13, figs. G. H. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



In America, the genus Helix is restricted to the West Coast" 

 until Mexico is reached, where the species spread over the middle 

 portion also. In South America the species are sparsely distributed. 

 Lysinoe is the most prominent subgenus, including the larger Mex- 

 ican and Californian species. Epiphragmophora occurs in South 

 America ; and the AVest Indian Eurycampta may perhaps belong 

 here. Among the fossil forms may be mentioned the section Glypt- 

 erpes Pils., proposed for Helix veterna M. & H. 



The writer has elsewhere" expressed the opinion that the Ameri- 

 can forms of true Helix reached this continent from Asia by way 

 of a land bridge in the region of Beiing Sea. 



Subgenus GONOSTOMA Held. 



Differs from Helix in the less complex genitalia and the white- 

 lipi^ed shell. 



Genus LEUCOCHROA Beck. 



This genus is allied to the restricted genus Helix in genitalia and 

 dentition ; it differs in having the jaw entirely smooth, with a low 

 median projection. The characters separating it from Helix are 

 not great, and have generally been much overestimated. It has 

 often been said to be near Zonites, but this supposition is utterly 

 without foundation. The species are mainly circum-]\Iediterranean, 

 the best known being the common L. candid issima. 



Genus ALLOGNATHUS Pilsbry. 

 Man. of Conch, (2), iv, p. 121, 149, 1888. Kobelt, Nachr. bl. D. M. Ges. 1891, p. 140. 



Genitalia : 9 system provided with tAvo digitate glands each two- 

 fingered ; dart-sack having a four-bladed dart ; duct of the recep- 

 taculum seminis bearing a long diverticulum. $ system having 

 a long flagellum. 



Jaw entirely smooth, slightly projecting in the middle. 



Radula very large ; teeth all of the same form, Avhich is that of 

 a semicircularly curved strap.^^ 



The genital system is that of Helix s. str., resembling Campylcea 

 as much as anything ; but the smooth jaw and especially the 

 extremely peculiar dentition, are sufficient to give generic rank. 



"See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1888, p. 193. 

 i^Check-list of Amer. Land Shells, p. 195. 

 "See Schuberth, Arch. f. Naturg. 1892. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



The only sjDecies kuown is A. gratelonpi Grsells (grcellsiana Pfr.), 

 of the Island of Majorca. Probably H. qiiedeiifeldti Mts. belongs 

 here, also, as Kobelt suggests. 



Genus COCHLOSTYLA (Fer.) Semper. 



Genitalia : 9 system having a globular mucous gland united with 

 the dart-sack ; S system usually without a flagellum. Jaw strongly 

 ribbed, rarely smooth. Brilliantly colored shells of arboreal 

 habits, confined with a few exceptions, to the Philippine Islands.'* 



Genus POLYMITA (Beck) Binney. 



Genitalia as in Hemltrochus. Jaw low, wide, arched, delicately 

 striated, without ribs or median projection. 



Teeth with a long quadrangular basal plate with gouge-shaped 

 expanded cusp. 



Shell globose, brilliantly colored, with simple lip. 



This genus holds much the same relation to Hemitroc/ins that 

 Allofjnathus holds to Helix. The extremely peculiar dentition, first 

 made known by Binney, is very diflTerent from that of ordinary 

 Helicoids, but is approached by a number of other fruit-eating 

 arboreal snails. The species are all Cuban. 



Genus HEMITROCHUS (Swainson) Pilsbry. 

 'Man. of Conoh. (2), V. p. 5. Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1892, p. 129, pi. 6, figs. F, G. 



Genitalia : 9 system having a dart-sack and accessory mucous 

 glands ; duct of the spermatheca long, simple. $ system having a 

 slender penis at the apex of which the vas-deferens and a long 

 flagellum are inserted ; retractor penis lacking. 



Jaw highly arched, smooth except for some faint vertical striae 

 in the middle. 



Dentition of the normal Helix type. 



This group includes the sections Hemitrochus, s. str., Plagiop- 

 tycha, Dialeuca, Coryda, and perhaps Jeanneretia. Possibly the 

 continental section Oxijchnua belongs here. The species are all 

 West Indian, inhabiting from Jamaica and Haiti northward to the 



i*Under Cochlosiyla are included the sections enumerated by Semper (Land 

 Moll. Phil. Arch.), several additional sections proposed by myself (Manual of 

 Conch. (2), vii), and the curious Helix cepoidesoi Lea. formerly classed in Stylo- 

 donta, but referred to Cochlosiyla by Dr. v. Moeliendorff, under the sectional 

 ■azxa^ Ptychostyhis. This name beinjj pienccupied by .Sandberger for a tertiary 

 genus of Melaiiiido:. a substitute must be chosen ; we pro|)ose, therefore, to des- 

 ignate the group Hypoptychus; H. cepoides Lea being the type, and thus far the 

 only known species. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Bahamas and Florida Keys. The fossil species described by Dr. 

 W. H. Dall from Florida belong mainly to Flaglojjfycha. 



Genus GLYPTOSTOMA Binney & Bland. 



Genitalia : 9 system having an appendicula or a dart-sack 

 entering the vagina. Vas-deferens entering the penis at its middle. 



Jaw very low, broadly arched, having about sixteen strong sejia- 

 rated ribs. Dentition normal. 



Shell depressed, broadlv umbilicated, having a simple, thin, acute 



lip- 



The single species known is G. newherryanxim AV. G. Binn., of 

 San Diego, California. The shell is entirely Fatuloid in form, but 

 not in texture. Its systematic position is doubtful. 



Genus ACANTHINULA Beck. 



Said to possess a dart-sack and mucous glands, and probably to be 

 grouped here. 



Genus VALLONIA Risso. 



This genus of minute shells probably belongs here. A dart-sack 

 is present. 



Group III, TELEOPHALLA. 



Female genital system lacking all accessory organs ; male organs 

 complicated by the presence of a long flagellum and a well-devel- 

 oped appendix. 



Jaw thin, delicately plaited or distantly striated (or smooth ?). 



Besides the two genera given below, this group perhaps includes 

 Pararhijtida Ancey, an oxygnathous group. 



Genus SAGDA Beck. 



Genitalia : 9 system Avithout accessory organs ; duct of the 

 si^ermatheca long. Ova rather large, few in number, with calca- 

 reous shell. S' system having a long penis at the apex of which 

 are inserted the retractor muscle, vas-deferens, and a long, folded 

 flagellum ; and at the middle of the penis is inserted a very long 

 but simple flagellum-like appendix.''' 



The jaw is thin, delicate, arched, composed of narrow vertical 

 plates soldered together. Dentition typically Helicoid. Foot long 

 and narrow. 



Distribution, Jamaica. 



i^See Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. P. 1892, p. 213, pi. 13. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



Shell rather glassy, with many narrow whorls and thin, acute, 

 outer lip. 



Genus CYSTICOPSIS Morch. 

 Man. of Conch. (2) v. p. o. 7. Proc. A. N. S. P. 1892, p. 214, pi. 13. 



Genitalia: $ system without dart-sack or mucous glands ; duct of 



the spermatheca very long, having a diverticulum; uterus much 



distended, retaining the numerous young which are born living. 



S system having a long flagellum upon the penis, and a glandular 



appendix w'hich terminates in two long flagellum-like processes. 



Jaw vertically striated. Teeth normal. 



Shell thin, globose, the lip thin, acute, not expanded or reflexed. 



Foot short, wide. 



Distribution, Cuba and Jamaica. 



Group IV, EPIPHALLOPHORA. 



Genitalia: 9 system without accessory organs; $ having the 

 penis continued into an epiphallus which generally bears a flagel- 

 lum. 



Jaw smooth (oxygnath), or ribbed (odontognath). 



The species of this group require much more investigation before 

 we shall be in a position to correctly classify them. Most of the 

 lai'ge, solid Helices of the tropics and the southern hemisphere 

 belong here. 



Tropical A m e r i c a n / ^.^^^^^j^^^ 

 forms. (, 



Forms of S. E. Asia, etc. { c^J^Jneila. 



f A feathery glandular ( ^^^^ 

 I appendix on penis. \ 

 Australo-M oluccan! f Chloritis. 



forms. I No appendix ; epiphallus J Hadra. 



I sometimes degenerate. 1 Planispira. 

 y [ Papuina. 



Genus CARACOLUS (Montfort) Pilsbry. 



Genitalia : 9 system lacking accessory appendages ; c? system 

 having the retractor muscle and a long epiphallus inserted at the 

 apex of the penis, the epiphallus continued as a short flagellum 

 beyond the insertion of the vas-deferens. Duct of spermatheca 

 long or short. 



Jaw either smooth or stoutly ribbed ; teeth normal. 



Distribution, West Indies and Northern South America. 




398 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The following sections belong here : Caracolus s. s., Lucerna, 

 Dentellaria, Isomeria, Lahyrinthus, * * Eurycratera, Parthena, 

 Polydontes, Thelidomus, Liochila, and probably Cepolis. 



Genus CAMAENA (Alb.) Pils. & v. Moell. 

 Pilsbry, Manual of Conch. (2) VI, p. 197. MoellendorfF. Xaehrichtsbl. d. D. M. 

 Ges. 1S91, p. 195. Pilsbry, /. c. 1892, p. 71. 



Genitalia : 9 system having no accessory appendages ; the vag- 

 ina is bound to the wall of the body-cavity by a thin muscle band ; 

 duct of the spermatheca very long. $ system provided with a very 

 muscular penis containing a penis-papilla, and continued above in 

 an epiphallus and flagellum ; retractor attached to the epiphallus. 



Jaw ribbed. 



Distribution, South-east Asia, Philippines, etc. 



The specimen dissected by me was sent without the shell by Dr. 

 V. MoellendorfF. 



As sections or subgenera of Camcena the following may be placed : 

 Camoena s. s., Pseudobba, Phcenleobius and Camcenella. 



Subgenus CAMCENELLA Pilsbry. 



Genitalia as in Camcena, but penis-papilla very large. Jaw 

 ribbed. Marginal teeth of the radula wide, low, and multicuspid. 

 Shell (see Manual of Conch. (2) YI, p. 239). 



Type Helix platyodon Pfr. 



See figure accompanying this paper. The specimens dissected 

 were sent me by Dr. v. MoellendorfF. 



Genus OBBA Beck. 

 = Obbina Semper. 



Genitalia: $ system without accessory organs ; $ system having 

 a flagellum and a feather-like glandular aj^pendix. 

 Jaw smooth ; teeth not peculiar. 

 Distribution, Philippines and some adjacent islands. 



Genus CHLORITIS Beck. 



Genitalia : $ system without accessory appendages ; Z system 

 having a long epiphallus inserted with the retractor muscle at the 

 apex of the penis, and continued beyond the insertion of the vas- 

 deferens as a flagellum. 




1892.] >'ATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Jaw stout, strongly ribbed ; teeth not peculiar, the marginals tri- 

 cuspid. 



Hadra is very closely allied to Chloritis in anatomy and shell, 

 and should probably be considered a subgenus. The groups 

 Papuina and Planispira are also near to Chloriiis in anatomical 

 features, and if all were united the group would be about equiva- 

 lent in value to the other groups herein called genera. A closer 

 study of specimens may, however, show differences not known to 

 me. 



Contrary to the general rule, the presence or absence of a flagel- 

 lum seems to be a character of very trifliug import among the spe- 

 cies of the group Chloritis -|- Hadra -f Papuina -f Planispira; 

 the epiphallus also is lacking in some of the species, notably in 

 Cristigibba. This is a case of degeneration, in all probability, 

 comparable to the Fruticicoloid forms in which the vaginal appen- 

 dages are lost, or to the section Canistrum of Cochlostyla. 



The shells of some species of Chloritis are very like some ofDorca- 



sia, but the anatomical characters very widely separate these two 



groups. 



Subgenus HADRA Alb. 



Genitalia scarcely differing from Chloritis except that the flagel- 

 lum is frequently lacking. Jaw and teeth similar to those of 

 Chloritis. 



These, like the species of Chloritis, are ground snails. 



Distribution, Australia. 



This division I formerly considered a genus, but I agree with my 

 friend Hedley who holds that it is scarcely separable from Chloritis' 



Genus PAPUINA Martens. 



Genitalia : 9 system without accessory appendages ; S system 

 usually having a flagellum upon the penis, but it is sometimes 

 lacking. Jaw delicate, coarsely ribbed. 



Differs from Hadra in the shell, the exclusively arboreal station, 

 and the more delicate jaw. 



Genus PLANISPIRA Beck. 



Genitalia as in Papuina, the flagellum being present in typical 

 Planispira (zonaria), absent in sect. Cristigibba. 



Jaw smooth, ribless. 



Differs from Obba in lacking the glandular appendix ; from 

 Papuina, Hadra and Chloritis in the smooth jaw ; but it will prob- 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ably be found to intergrade with Chloriiis in characters when more 

 species are known anatomically. 



Group V, HAPLOGONA. 



Genitalia entirely lacking accessory organs ; penis without an 

 epiphallus; jaw smooth (oxygnath), vertically striated (aulaco- 

 gnath), or flatly plaited (stegognath). Outer lateral teeth generally 

 multicuspid. This group may be classified thus : 



, , , f A mucous pore on tlie tail I Endodonta. 



Aulacognath or stegog- | ^ \ Patula 



nath; shell with sini--{ No mucous pore ; aulac- J . o-Z-j^/' 



pie, sharp lip. ^ ognathous. \lrJc)Zwr, 



Odontognath ; shell hav- ( Polygyra. 



ing reflexed or thick- \ Polvgyrella. 



ened lip. ( ? Praticolella. 



Irochomorpha. 



Genus POLYGYRA (Say) Pilsbry. 



Proc. Acad N. S. Phila. 1889, p. 193. 



Atichisiotna, in part, of H. & A. Adams, Tryon, Fischer, ei al. 



The genital system lacks all accessory organs, there being no 

 dart-sack, no mucous glands, no flagellum on penis; the duct of the 

 spermatheca is short and simjole, without an accessory blind sack. 



The jaw is strongly ribbed, and there is no median projection on 

 its cutting edge. 



Oviparous, the eggs small, numerous. 



Shell helicoid, varying from globose to lens-shaped or planor- 

 boid ; horn-colored or brown, sometimes banded, the most constant 

 band supra-peripheral ; striated; lip flatly reflected ; aperture teeth 

 often wanting, but typically three — 1 parietal, 2 upon the lip; 

 axis perforated, umbilicus open or closed. 



Distribution, North America. We have every reason to believe 

 that this group has been in the past, as it now is, exclusively North 

 American.^® 



Subdivisions. — The group is quite homogeneous, easy transitions 

 being traceable between the various sections, through species which 

 are quite intermediate. Sections : Polygyra s. str., Dcedaloehila, 

 Triodopsis, Mesodon, Stenoirema. 



In the " Nomencl. and Check-list of Amer. Land Shells" (1888) 

 this genus was correctly defined, but several groups not agreeing 

 with my diagnosis were included. These groups were subsequently 



i^See Pilsbry, Journal de Conchyliologie, Paris, 1891, p. 22. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



eliminated by me (Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 299; 

 The Nautilus, August, 1891, and Jour, de Conch. 1891, p. 22.) and 

 the genus restricted to its present limits. 



Genus ENDODONTA (Albers 1850) Pilsbry. 



Shell patuloid, with or without folds or denticles within the aper- 

 ture ; generally horn-colored with radiating or zigzag reddish 

 flames. 



Animal having a more or less developed caudal mucous gland,^' 

 and supra-pedal furrows. 



Genitalia uuknown, but probably like Patula. 



Jaw thin, delicately ribbed (stegognath) or striated. Central 

 and lateral teeth as in Patula ; marginal teeth low, wide, having 

 one or several short cusps ; rarely pseudo-zonitoid. 



Distribution, Oceanica, New Zealand, Australia. 



The elucidation of this group is involved in considerable confu- 

 sion. Albers and other early authors give shell characters only, in 

 defining their groups. Hutton first called attention to the anatomy 

 of species related to Endodonta, and to the fact that certain of the 

 New Zealand forms possessed a caudal slirae-gland ; and he founded 

 a family " Charopidce" on this peculiarity, characterizing numerous 

 generic groups therein. Suter (Trans. N. Z. Institute, 1880-1892) 

 made certain modifications, and considerably enlarged the limits of 

 the. family, the name of which he changed to " Phenacohelicidce.'' 

 The writer made some observations upon the systematic position of 

 these groups in The Nautilus, Sept., 1892, and grouped all of the 

 mucous-pore bearing genera under the generic name Gerontia Hutt. 

 A month later proof-sheets of Mr. Charles Hedley's article upon 

 Chai'opidce were received at Philadelphia. This valuable paper 

 contained a synopsis of all previous publications known to the 

 author upon the subject, and the fact that Endodonta, Pitys, Charopa, 

 etc., possess a mucous tail gland, like Gerontia, etc., was for the first 

 time brought forward. 



A brief review of Mr. Hedley's article appeared in The Nautilus 

 for October, 1892. ]\[r. Hedley does not give the same limits to 

 his Charopidce that the writer gave to Gerontia ; nor would it be 

 expected, as our papers, his in Australia and my own in America, 



'"The credit of the discovery that the Patuloid forms (such as Charopa) herein 

 included possessed a caudal gland, rests with my friend Charles Hedley, of 

 Sydney, N. S. W., whose ob ervaiions both jirinted and in letters liave influenced 

 largely the limits liere given to this group. My former views are shown in the 

 "Observations on New Zealand Helices" in The Nautilus for Sept., 1892. 

 27 




402 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



were written each iu complete ignorance that the other was engaged 

 upon the group in question. 



The present genus, therefore, is the product of our independent 

 labors, and is equivalent to Charojndce Hedley plus Gerontia Pils- 

 bry. It therefore includes Phenacohelicidce Suter and Charojndce 

 Hutton. 



The choice of the name Endodonta for the genus is inevitable, as 

 it is the oldest proposed. The following groups seem to belong 

 here : 



Eadodonta s. sir. (-f Pitys Pse. non Beck). 



Libera Garrett. 



Diaglyptus Pils. (? ? = Pitys Beck, never defined). 



Simplicaria Mouss. (= toothless Endodonta'). 



Maoriana Suter (Huttonella Suter, preoc). 



^schrodomus Pils. (j= Thera Hutt., preoc). 



Chai'opa Alb. 



Gerontia Hutt. 



Therasia Hutt. 



Calymna Hutt, (phcs Amphidoxa Hutt. non Alb.). 



Pyrrha Hutt. 



Phenacohelix Suter (= Frutidcola Hutt. no7i Held). 



Allodiscus Pils. (= Psyra Hutt., preoc). 



Suteria Pils. {= Patulopsis Suter, non Strebel). 



Thalassohe/iz Pils. (= Thalassia of N. Z. authors non Alb.; not 

 Thalassia Chevrolat). 



Phacussa Hutt. 



Genus PATULA Held. 



Genital system lacking all accessory appendages. Jaw vertically 

 striated. Marginal teeth multicuspid. 



This genus includes the typical forms of Europe and America 

 (Discus, Angaispira, Pyramidula, Gonyodiscus), and also the subgenus 

 Helicodiscus Morse. Perhaps Zoogenites Morse. Various forms 

 of this genus are found in most parts of the world, except Ocean- 

 ica, Australia, etc 



Genus TEOCHOMORPHA. 



Semper, Reisen im Archip. Phil., Landmoll. 



Distinguished from Patula, etc., mainly by the keeled and other- 

 wise very different shell and the differently shaped marginal teeth 

 of the radula. 




1892.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Genus ANOGLYPTA Martens. 

 Hedley, Proc. Linn. Soc. X. S. Wales (2), VT, p. 22, 189L 



Genitalia simple as in Trochomorpha ; jaw and teeth also resem- 

 bling that genus, from which this is sundered mainly on account of 

 the peculiar shell. 



Distribution, Tasmania. 



Group VI, POLYPLACOGNATHA. 



Genitalia lacking all accessory organs ; jaw composed of numer- 

 ous separate quadrangular plates ; lateral teeth bicuspid. 



Genus PUNCTUM Morse. 



Genital system like Patula. Jaw composed of about 16-19 sepa- 

 rate quadrate plates. Dentition : central teeth unidentate, laterals 

 bidentate. 



Shell discoidal, with round, crescentic aperture, and thin, acute 



lip- 



Distribution, Holarctic realm. 



Differs from Microphysa, etc., in having the plates of the jaw 

 actually unsoldered, but connected by a delicate membrane. 



Genus LAOMA (Gray) Pils. 



Genital system unknown. Jaw composed of 20-24 quadrangu- 

 lar papillose plates. Central tooth uuicuspid, side teeth all bicuspid. 



Shell more or less trochiform, generally keeled and variegated ; 

 aperture rhomboidal, lip thin, simple. • 



Section Laoma s. s., aperture with lamellae within. 



Section Phrixgnathus Hutton, aperture without lamellae. 



Distribution, New Zealand. 



My knowledge of the anatomy of this genus is derived from the 

 writings of Hutton and Suter. The jaw should be compared with 

 that of Fhacussa, Therasia, etc. The lateral and marginal teeth 

 are peculiar and very characteristic. 



Genera of Doubtful Position. 



Genus STROBILOPS Pilsbry. 



Strobila Morse 1864, not Sars 1833, 

 Strobilus Sandberger et al., not Anton 1839. 



Genitalia unknown. Jaw ribbed. 



This genus is represented by many species in the middle and 

 later tertiary of Europe, and by several living species in America, 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



extending south to Venezuela. It is therefore, like Vcdlonia, Zoni- 

 toide-^, Pupilla, etc., a genus of the Holarctic realm. 



The New Zealand forms referred to Strobila have been separated 

 under the name Maoriana by Mr. Suter. They are a modification 

 of Endodonta. 



Living Species. 



S. lahyrinthica Say. 



Var. streheli C. & F. 



Var. virgo Pils. 



Var. affinis Pils. 



Var. viorsei Dall. 

 S. salviui Tristr. 

 S. huhhardi A. D. Br. 

 (Syn. H. vendryesiana Gloyne.) 



European Tertiary Species. 



aS". uniplicata Al. Braun. 



S. elasmodonta Reuss. 



S. diptyz Boettg. 



S. eostata Sandb. 



S. lahyrinthicula Mich. 



S. sublabyrinthica. 



(Syn. H. lautricensis Noul.) 

 S. monile Desh. 

 S. pseudolabyrinthica Sandb. 

 S. duvalii Mich. 



Genus AMPELITA Beck. 

 Anatomy unknown. ^^ 



Genus PEDINOGYRA Alb. 

 Hedley, Proc. Roy. Soc. Queensl. 1889, and Proc. Linn. Soc. X. S. Wales, 1892. 



This genus has characters of groups I and IV, with others ally- 

 ing it to Panda. 



Genus POLYGYRATIA Gra.t 



Anatomy unknown. 



Genus MACROCYCLIS Beck. 



This group is still unknown anatomically. A single species, M. 

 laxata, is known. It may belong to Helix s. str. 



Genus SOLAROPSIS Beck. 

 Manual of Conchology (2), v, p. 177. 



This genus rests, at present, wholly upon conchological charac- 

 ters. 



'^^A. .ryj/^ra has been dissected by the author since this paper was written. It 

 presents peculiar characters which leave the position of the genus problematic. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



THE EVOLUTION OF THE PREMOLAR TEETH IN THE MAMMALS. 

 BY W. B. SCOTT. 



The mode of evolution of the mammalian molar tooth up to and 

 from the tritubercular pattern, which has been elaborated by Cope 

 (No. 1) and Osborn (No. 7) as well as the nomenclature proposed 

 by the latter for the various cusps or elements which make up the 

 crown of the mammalian molar, has been very generally accepted 

 by morphologists. According to this view, the primitive form of 

 tooth in both jaws is that exemplified by many reptiles, viz., a per- 

 fectly simple cone. The cusp which represents this primordial 

 element throughout the various phyla of mammals is called the 

 protocone. To this are added, as a second stage, small anterior and 

 posterior cusps, called respectively the para- and metacones. This 

 stage gives a crown composed of three cusps all in the same antero- 

 posterior line and is exemplified by such genera as Drornatherium 

 and Triconodon. The next step would appear to consist in a shift- 

 ing of the relative position of the cusps, and now the molars of the 

 two jaws, hitherto similar, begin to display an important difierence. 

 In the upper jaw the protocone begins to move inward or mesially, 

 the para- and metacones remaining upon the external or lateral 

 side of the crown, while in the lower jaw the protoconid remains 

 upon the outer side of the tooth, the para- and metaconids shifting 

 toward the inner side. In this stage the molar crowns have a tri- 

 angular shape, the protocone forming the apex, and the para- and 

 metacones the base ; but while in the superior molar the apex is 

 directed mesially, in the inferior tooth it is directed laterally. 

 The next stage affects primarily the lower molars and depends 

 upon the change from the primitive condition, in which the upper 

 and lower molars merely pass each other with a shearing move- 

 ment, or in which each tooth opposes merely one tooth in the oppo- 

 site jaw, to the alternating condition, in which each lower molar 

 opposes two upper ones, or opposes one and shears against another. 

 The change consists in the addition to the primitive triangle of the 

 tooth (trigonid) of a low heel or talon, which may subsequently 

 divide into two cusps, of which the outer is called the hypoconid 

 and the inner the eutoconid. It may, however, be the case that the 

 hypoconid is first developed and the entocouid subsequently added 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



to it. Between these two there generally appears a minute median 

 cusp, the hypoconulid, which on the last molar may become a large 

 element, necessitating the formation of an additional fang, but on 

 the others seldom reaches considerable proportions. In very many 

 forms tlie upper molars now add a fourth main cusp, the hypocone, 

 at the postero-iuternal angle of the crown. In the tritubercular 

 stage two small accessory elements are developed in the lines con- 

 necting the protocone w^ith the para- and metacones, and are called 

 respectively the proto- and metaconules. We have now arrived at 

 a stage in which both the superior and inferior molars have six 

 elements (quadritubercular stage of Cope) to which type the 

 molars of nearly all the higher mammalia may be traced back, 

 through successive stages of simplification. 



To this scheme of molar development propounded by Cope and 

 Osborn, the only serious objections hitherto made are those of 

 Fleischmann (No. 4), who rejects both the nomenclature and the 

 homologies explained above. Before proceeding to the question of 

 the evolution of the premolars, it will be necessary to examine the 

 views of Fleischmann, since any comparison between the two cate- 

 gories of teeth will, of course, depend upon the homologies of the 

 molar cusps. " Wenn iiberhaupt eine Ableitung der Siiugermolaren 

 von einfacheren Formen moglich ist, so miissen die Ausgangsglieder 

 bei Reptilien gesucht werden. Aber die theoretisch geforderten 

 Zwischenformen sind uns nicht geniigend bekannt, und die system- 

 atische Stellung der fossilen Thiere, deren ^iihne nach Cope und 

 Osborn die Bindeglieder der Reptiiien-und Siiugethierzahne 

 darstellen, ist wegen schlechter palseontologischer Urkunden voll- 

 kommen in's Dunkle gehiillt. Deshalb ist der Versuch der beiden 

 amerikanischen Forscher wohl als eine Hypothese zu achten, fiir 

 welche die Wahrscheinlichkeit unserer raoderneu wissenschaftlichen 

 Anschauungen spricht, jedoch fehlt ihm jeder exacte Beweis. 



" Auch die Annahme, dass alle Glieder des urspriinglichen 

 Saugethiergebisses ganz gleichartig eutwickelt waren, scheint mir 

 solange nicht nothwendig aus den jetzt bekannten Thatsachen 

 abgeleitet werden zu miissen, als nicht die gesamrate Organisation 

 der Thierwelt der Puercozeit eine einigermaassen sichere Verkniip- 

 fung rait den lebenden Saugern gestattet. Bis jetzt ist die 

 Annahme, alle Ziihne miissen von einer gleichen einfachen Urform 

 stammen, nur begriindet in unserem Bestreben, die mannichfa- 

 chen Verhaltnisse der Thierwelt, wie es eben geht, unter einen 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



generellen BegrifF zusammenzufassen. Wie einleuchtend auch 

 das logische Princip der systematischen Einbeit fiir jeiie Vermu- 

 thung sprechen mag, so kanu die Naturforschung doch niir danu 

 der lockenden Aussicht folgen, weuu geniigende Beweisgriinde die 

 Speculation zu stiitzen vermogen. 



"Wie die Annahme eines urspriinglichen Kegelzahnes als Sur- 

 rogat eiaer einstweilen fehlenden besseren Einsicbt in den bistor- 

 iscben Bildungsgang zu beurtbeilen ist, so kann man sicb aucb die 

 Umwandlung des triconodouten Zabnes in die tritubercultire Form 

 nicbt gut vorstellen. Man begreift zwar sebr leicbt, dass dadurcb 

 den Thieren ein grosser Vortheil erwacbsen sei, aber welcbe pbysi- 

 ologiscben Processe die Formiinderung leiteten, ist jetztnocbgiinzlich 

 unklar. Cope undOsbornglauben,diebeidenSeitenbockerseiengegen 

 den Protoconus verscboben worden. Das ist sicber die einfacbste 

 Hypotbese ; aber warum am oberen Mobaren dieselben nacb aussen, 

 am unteren Backzabn nacb innen gedrebt worden seien, ist rair 

 nicbt klar geworden. Ferner babe icb von Osborn keinen Grund 

 erfabren, der ibn berecbtigt, die Hocker der oberen und unteren 

 Ziibne direct zu bomologisiren. AVer bei Siiugetbieren verscbie- 

 dener Ordnungen die Zabne der oberen und unteren Reibe genau 

 betracbtet, wird baufigzu der Erkenutniss gelangen, dass die Seiten 

 der Zabne einander im umgekebrteu Sinne vergleicbbar sind, 

 d. b. dass der Innenseite eines oberen Molaren die Aussenseite des 

 unteren und dem Yorderraude des oberen der Hinterrand des 

 unteren Backzabnes entsprecbe. Diese Tbatsacbe babe icb 

 durcb Mabn an den Molaren von Arvicola genauer besprecben 

 lassen, icb babe micb aucb an Vertretern anderer Gruppen von der 

 Ricbtigkeit derselben iiberzeugt. "VVenn man die eben gescbilderte 

 Lagebeziebung als allgemeines Gesetz fiir Saugerziibne betracbten 

 darf, dann ist wobl die Annabme Osborn's iiber die Stellung vier 

 drei Koni an entgegenwirkenden Ziibnen (bezogen auf dieselbe 

 Sagittalebene) ricbtig ; aber urn ganz consequent zu denken, diirfte 

 man nicbt die am oberen und unteren Molaren nacb vorne stebenden 

 Hocker als Paraconus bez. als Paraconid bezeiebnen, man muss 

 vielmebr den Paraconus im Oberkiefer bomolog dem Metakonid 

 des Unterkiefers setzen." (No. 4, pp. 893-5.) 



The paper of Mabn on tbe molars o^ Arvicola, referred to above, 

 presents tbe following reasons for regarding the anterior end of tbe 

 upper molar as equivalent to tbe posterior end of tbe lower: 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



" Weuu man die Zahue im Ober- und Unterkiefer betrachtet, so 

 springt sofort die Thatsache in die Augen, dass die init einander 

 artikulirenden Ziihne nicht gleicli gerichtet sind ; denn im Unter- 

 kiefer stehen die spitzen Endeu der Molaren nach vorn, im Ober- 

 kiefer sind sie nach hinten gerichtet, und das spitze Ende jedes 

 Unterkieferzahnes trifft auf das breite Ende seines Antagonisten 

 im Oberkiefer. 



"Die drei Cementleisten liegen, wie bei'eits erwiihnt, an verschie- 

 denen Stellen jedes Zahnes, zwei am abgerundeten Ende an der 

 facialen und lingualen Kaute, eine am entgegengesetzten mehr 

 spitzen Ende ; das wiederholt sich an alien Gliedern des Gebisses. 

 Also trifft die Seite des Zahnes, welcbe eine Cementleiste besitzt und 

 im Unterkiefer nach vorn sieht, auf die Seite des Oberkieferzabnes, 

 an der zwei bilateral gelegene Cementleisten stehen. Man muss 

 deshalb, um bei der Formvergleichung der Ziihne zu richtigen 

 Ergebnissen zu gelangen, je eine Zahnreihe des Oberkiefers gegen 

 die entgegengesetze Reihe im Unterkiefer um 180° drelien, dann 

 fallen die spitzen und stumpfen Enden aller Molaren auf einander. 



" Bei der morphologischen Vergleichung muss man desshalb das 

 Vorderende eines Uuterkiefermolaren mit dem Hinterende eines 

 Oberkiefermolaren als entsprechend ansehen. Vergleicht man 

 ferner die Form der einzelnen Ziihne, so wird man den friibereu 

 Beobachtern beistimmen, welcbe die grosse Ahnlichkeit zwischen 

 dem dritten hintersten Molaren des Oberkiefers und dem ersten 

 vordersten Molaren im Unterkiefer hervorheben. M^ ist in beiden 

 Kiefern ziemlich gleichfurmig, desshalb muss M3 des Unterkiefers 

 Mj im Oberkiefer entsprechen. So Uisst sich auf Grand der anato- 

 mischen Thatsachen zunachst fiir die schmelzfaltigen Ziihne von 

 Arvicula die Behauptung aufstellen, dass die Richtung der oberen 

 und unteren Reihe gerade umgekehrt ist. Durch theoretische 

 Belrachtung der Entwicklung der Ziihne in einer Einstiilpung des 

 Hautzahn-Anlagen enthaltenden Ektoderms ist B. Dybowski zu 

 der iihnlichen Auffassung gelangt, dass die Ziihne des Ober- und 

 Unterkiefers in der Richtung von rechts nach links um 180° ge- 

 dreht seien, aber er hat seine Meinung durch Thatsachen nicht 

 als zwingend erwiesen." (No. 5.) 



From an examination of the dentition of certain marsupials, 

 Fleischmann reaches conclusions opposed to those of Osborn and 

 Cope, especially with regard to the history of the talon of the lower 

 molars, and says of Osborn's view : "Die Betrachtuug der von 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 409 



mil- gegebenen Figuren lasst eine solche AufFassung direct als hin- 

 fiillig erscheinen." 



To these criticisms it may be replied: (1) It is perfectly true that the 

 present state of palteontological knowledge does not permit the con- 

 struction of an undoubted phyletic series from the Triassic to the 

 Puerco, but when the geological and the morphological succession agree 

 so well, we are entitled to assume, in the absence of any evidence to 

 the contrary, that the steps of the change are those indicated by 

 the successive genera of mammals. Nobody has stated that these 

 steps were of necessity those which the evidence at present avail- 

 able appears to show ; on the contrary, Osborn has expressly 

 pointed out another possible method. 



(2) The relations of the "entire organization of the animal 

 world of the Puerco times " to that of the present, are, it is true, far 

 from clear, and yet the connection of many Puerco genera with 

 their Wasatch successors is so obvious as to deprive this objection 

 of any weight. The hypothesis that all the varieties of mammalian 

 molars were derived from a single type of tooth is much more than 

 a "seductive speculation." For many different groups it has such 

 a high degree of probability as almost amounts to demonstration, 

 for no group has it been shown to be untrue, and in those in which 

 we cannot demonstrate its truth, the necessary phyletic series has 

 not yet been discovered. On the other hand, the history of the 

 premolars makes it evident that similar stages of dental evolution 

 may be reached in different ways. 



(3) It is no objection to the truth of a morphological fact that 

 we cannot give a physiological explanation of it. Indeed, the 

 factors of transformation form at present the most actively disputed 

 questions of biology. But whether or not mechanical (or dyna- 

 mical) factors of change are admitted as efficient causes of trans- 

 formation, it is clear that they at least indirectly condition the 

 result and that mechanically unfavorable changes cannot be per- 

 petuated. It is not difficult, in a general way, to see why aniso- 

 gnathism and movements of the jaw other than vertical should 

 necessitate the reversed arrangement of points upon the crowns of 

 the upper and lower molars, because they are subjected to opposite 

 strains. Even in the premolars, where the homologous cones are 

 not reversed, the reversal of form is as clearly shown as in the 

 molars, i. e. when the i^remolars reach a stage of complication 

 comparable to that of the molars. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



(4) The considerations which Dybowski (No. 3), Fleischmann 

 and Mahn advance as showing that the anterior end of the lower 

 molars is homologous with the posterior end of the upper ones and 

 vice versa, are derived from the resemblance of form in these parts 

 respectively and from the assumption that in Arvicola the cement 

 bands on the teeth are guides to homology. But for purposes of 

 morphological analysis, resemblance of form is of no value what- 

 ever, and as Mahn himself points out, the positions of the cement 

 bands in Arvicola is determined by the necessity of fixing the tooth 

 in the alveolus without undue compression of the cells of the per- 

 sistently functional enamel organ. How deceptive mere resem- 

 blance of form may be, is clearly shown by the facts of premolar 

 evolution already alluded to ; viz., that in those genera which have 

 molariform premolars, there is the same apparent correspondence 

 between the outside of the upper and the inside of the lower pre- 

 molars, as obtains in the molars. And yet, as will be more fully 

 shown in the sequel, this correspondence is entirely of form and not 

 of homology, for in both superior and inferior j^remolars the proto- 

 cone remains upon the external or buccal side of the crown. 



When the line of argument adopted by Fleischmann and Mahn is 

 pushed to the conclusion that the third lower molar is the homo- 

 logue of the first upper molar, it would certainly appear to be a 

 reductio ad absurdum of the considerations which lead to such a 

 result. On Mahn's principles the fourth upper premolar of 

 Castoroides, and not the first molar, may be proved to be homolo- 

 gous with the last inferior molar. If the equivalence of 5^ and m* 

 means anything at all, it must imply that at some time in the early 

 history of the mammals, either the upper or lower series was turned 

 about, end for end, mj now occupying the place originally held 

 by m^. Is such a thing conceivable? and if so, what are the steps 

 by which the change was brought about? Such a shifting could 

 not be effected by a partial rotation of the upper tooth in one direc- 

 tion and of the lower tooth in the opposite direction. 



The only safe method of determining the homologies of the various 

 cusps in the protean forms assumed by the mammalian molar and pre- 

 molar, is that of followingoutstep by step the changes which take place 

 in well defined phyletic series. Even embryology, valuable as is the 

 assistance which it affords, must be used with great caution and in 

 a general rather than a special Avay. The shapes taken by embry- 

 onic teeth are seldom like anything which is known among fossil 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



forms, at least in matters of detail. For example, no one would 

 infer from the ontogeny of the horse's molar, that it had "^been 

 derived from such types of dentition as those displayed by Hyra- 

 cotherhcm, Anchitherium, etc., and yet if any phyletic series may be 

 regarded as well established, it is that of the Equidce. Knowing 

 the phylogeny, we are able to eliminate cenogenetic features and to 

 show that the ontogeny in no way contradicts the results of pal- 

 aeontology. 



(5) Fleischmann objects to Osborn's homologizing the cusps of 

 the upper and lower molars. Strictly speaking, of course, an 

 upper tooth is not homologous with the corresponding lower tooth, 

 and nevertheless we speak very properly of the upper canine as 

 equivalent to the lower, etc. In the Triconodon molar there is no 

 reason why the anterior basal cusps of the upper molars should not 

 be homologous with the anterior cusps of the lower molar in the 

 same sense that the protocoue is equivalent to the protoconid. All 

 that Osborn's nomenclature implies is that in the tritubercular 

 tooth a certain element represents the anterior cusps of the tricono- 

 dont molar, and in no way denies the possibility that the primitive 

 simple cones,(haplodont stage) are reversed in the two jaws. There 

 is not a particle of evidence, however, for such a reversal in the 

 haplodont stage, nor is any fact known which could suggest a 

 rotation of the upper and lower molars in opposite directions, in 

 stages subsequent to the triconodont. If the series of genera selected 

 by Osborn really represents the stages of molar development, there 

 is nothing like rotation, but merely a lateral displacement of the 

 cusps. 



(6) The conclusions which Fleischmann reaches from his exam- 

 ination of the marsupial dentition are quite inadmissible. Palseon- 

 tological discovery seems every day to make it more clear, that 

 the placental man)mals are not derived from any marsupials as yet 

 known, but that placentals and marsupials form two distinct and 

 divergent series. The objection of uncertain phylogenetic relation- 

 ship which Fleischniann urges against Osborn's series of genera 

 applies with more force to any reasoning founded upon marsupial 

 dentition. In particular, Fleischmann protests against the view 

 that the talon of the lower molars is something superadded to the 

 primitive triangle, and unrepresented in tlie triconodont tooth. But 

 this objection leaves out of account the fact that the talon can be of 

 importance only when the upper and lower molar series begin to 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



alternate, so that eacli lower molar opposes two upper ones ; nor 

 can the talon be functional until there is some displacement of the 

 superior protocone and the tritubercular stage is reached, giving a 

 cusp which the talon can oppose. 



In Triconodon these conditions are not fulfilled. Following 

 Fleischmann's line of reasoning, it might be shown that the posterior 

 cusp of the cat's inferior sectorial was the " metamere " and equiva- 

 lent to the talon, but such a conclusion would be entirely erroneous 

 as it has been demonstrated that in the cats' molar the talon has 

 disappeared. Furthermore, the history of premolar development 

 proves that the talon may be superadded to the primitive triangle, 

 and that the latter may be complete before the former makes its 

 appearance. At all events, no conclusion as to such a problem can 

 be safely drawn from the examination of teeth so far removed 

 from the primitive condition as are those of Dasyurus. 



The mode of origin of the trigonodont (or tritubercular) molar 

 which has been suggested by Cope and Osborn will be assumed as 

 correct in comparing the premolars with the molars, an assumption 

 which is justified by the evidence at present available. In the 

 absence of any well defined phyletic series of mammals from the 

 Triassic to the Fuerco, however, the theory cannot be regarded as 

 finally established. The premolars have quite a diflferent history, 

 and, as I have elsewhere shown (No. 11, pp. 48-9) even when these 

 teeth have become completely molariform, the elements which 

 correspond in function and position to those of the molars, are not 

 homologous with them, the key to these homologies being given by 

 the position of the protocone. 



The premolars do not display quite the same degree of constancy 

 in the order of succession of their component cusps as do the molars. 

 For this reason the fourth superior premolar will be taken as the 

 standard. The primitive form of the premolar is a simple cone, 

 implanted by a single fang, which is still preserved in several exist- 

 ing genera and which obviously corresponds to the protocone of the 

 molars. As early as the Puerco, however, we find that p * in every 

 known genus is complicated by the addition of a second cusp upon 

 the inner or lingual side of the protocone, which may be called the 

 deuterocone. This bicuspid tooth represents a pattern from which 

 all the pre.nolar types of the higher mammalia may be simply and 

 naturally derived by the continued addition of new parts, which in 

 many groups reach the same or an even greater degree of complication 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



than the true molars. Furthermore, this tooth brings out clearly the 

 important fact that, while in the molar the protocone has shifted to 

 the internal or lingual side of the crown, in the premolar it remains 

 upon the external or buccal side of the crown, just as in the inferior 

 molars. From this it follows that the deuterocone has no exact 

 homologue in the molar crown, though functionally and in position, 

 it corresponds to the protocone of the molar, and in the finished 

 molariform premolar it occupies the antero-internal angle of the 

 crown. 



The relatively simple form of the fourth superior premolar which 

 has been described, occurs almost universally in the genera of the 

 Puerco Eocene, while the anterior premolars are, for the most part, 

 as yet perfectly simple, consisting of the protocone only. In some 

 genera, however, such as Miockenus, P^ has likewise added a deu- 

 terocone. In the molars the new complications very generally 

 make their first appearance upon the first of the series, and then 

 successively upon the second and third, and so in the premolars P_* 

 is the first to assume new features, and these then advance to the 

 anterior premolars, the first never reaching the full molar pattern, 

 even when the others have exceeded the molars in degree of 

 complexity. 



The second stage of premolar development consists in the addi- 

 tion of a second external cusp, posterior to the protocone, which I 

 have called the tritocone, and which corresponds to the paracone 

 of the molar crown (postero-external cusp), but it cannot be 

 regarded as homologous with that element, because its position with 

 reference to the protocone is entirely diflTerent. This stage of devel- 

 opment imitates very closely the trigonodont molar, and very 

 frequently this type of premolar displays the intermediate conules, 

 either anterior, posterior, or both. In position these conules corre- 

 spond to the proto- and metaconules of the molars, but are obviously 

 not homologous with them. How very gradually this addition of 

 the tritocone may be effected is beautifully shown in the series 

 formed by placing together the diflTerent varieties and species of 

 Protogonia and Phenacodus. Here the tritocone may be seen in all 

 stages, from a very minute and scarcely visible cusp, and gradually 

 enlarging until it reaches the size of the protocone (Phenacodus.) 

 This trigonodont stage of the fourth upper premolar is very widely 

 distributed in the middle and upper Eocene, occurring in nearly all 

 perissodactyls and creodonts. With some special modifications it 

 persists to the present time in the sectorial of the Carnivora, in 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



many Insectivora and in some forms of Artiodactyla (e. g. Dicoty- 

 les.) In many forms this pattern of tooth does not occur in advance 

 of the fourth j^remolar, while in others the second and third grad- 

 ually assume the same structure, as in most of the Eocene perisso- 

 dactyles. Even in Phenacodus P^ is trigonodont, while PI consists of 

 the protocone only. 



The final step in the conversion of the premolars to the molar 

 pattern is given by the addition of a fourth main element at the 

 postero-internal angle of the crown, the tetartocone, which thus 

 corresponds in position to the hypocone of the molars. The incipi- 

 ent stages of this element may be observed in Helaletes (Desmato- 

 therium) among the perissodactyls and in Agriochcerus among the 

 artiodactyls, where it occurs as a minute and variable cusp just 

 posterior to and hardly separated from the deuterocone. 



So far as I have been able to observe, the scheme of development 

 of the premolar crown is quite constant, 

 and for p^ universally so, and the nomen- 

 clature which is proposed for the pre- 

 molar cusps is intended to express their 

 ^ -»s\iBu»- \^ order of succession, as they appear in 

 Fig. I. p*. However, exceptions to this order of 



Procamdus occidentalis. succession do occur in the anterior pre- 

 Third and fourth upper pre" molars. For example, in p^ of Procame- 



molars of leftside, </ deutero- , .^ . ^ i • i • ^ • 



cone; x additional anterior ^«S. ^^^ l^^er crescent, whlch in P_ IS 



cusp. (After Leidy.) formed by the extension of the deutero- 



cone in both directions, is produced by crests from the anterior 

 and posterior edges of the protocone, which have not yet come into 

 contact with each other and thus leave a gap opposite the apex of the 

 protocone. As we shall see later, the posterior ridge in this tooth 

 probably represents the deuterocone. Again, in Hyracotherium 

 venticolum p^ consists of two cusps, the proto- and tritocones, which 

 are in the same antero-posterior line and the deuterocone is little or 

 not at all developed. Other exceptions might be cited. 



The development of the inferior premolars appears to be some- 



^r^ what less regular and constant than 



,-j^r^ that of the superior. As in the upper 



jaw, the complication begins w4th p* and 



^^^* -^^ advances anteriorly, but it is worthy of 



Hyracotherium venticolum. ^^^^^^ ^,^^j. -^^ ^^^^, f^rms the COmplica- 

 Second upper premolar of left ,. /• .1 • x* '• i u^™;,,^ 



side,/r.protocone;^r.tritocone. tion of the inferior premolars begins 

 (After Cope.) earlier and proceeds farther than in the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



case of the upper teeth. As before, the initial point must be taken 

 as a simple conical cusp, the protoconid. ]\Iost of the existing 

 unguiculates, as well as some recent and many extinct ungulates 

 retain more or fewer teeth which depart but little from this type. 

 In many forms the only addition to the protoconid consists in a 

 small posterior basal cusp, which the analogy of such Mesozoic 

 mammals as Amphilestes and Triconodon justifies us in regarding 

 as the equivalent of the metaconid of the molars. In many of the 

 Carnivora a second posterior cusp is added, to which, however, it is 

 not necessary to give a name, since it is of little importance and 

 occurs in but few forms. Frequently also an anterior basal cusp, 

 strictly comparable to the paraconid of the molars, is added and a 

 stage like that of the Triconodon molar is attained, consisting 

 of elements which there is every reason to regard as homologous 

 with the three primary cusps of the molars. There is, however, a 

 great difference as to the regularity with which the para- and metaco- 

 nids are present and in the order of their succession ; one or the 

 other of them may never appear at all, and while the metaconid is 

 more frequently present and generally makes its appearance first, 

 yet this is by no means invariably the case. Another difference 

 from the molars consists in the ultimate fate of the metaconid in 

 the molariform premolar, where it becomes either part or the whole 

 of the talon and always remains on the same antero-posterior line 

 with the protoconid, instead of shifting to the internal or lingual side 

 of the latter. In the premolars, therefore, when a cusp occurs 

 occupying the position taken by the metaconid in the molars, it 

 cannot be regarded as homologous with that element, but rather 

 with the deuterocone of the upper premolar and may consequently 

 be called the deuteroconid. The latter element also varies as to the 

 relative time of its appearance ; sometimes it is the only element 

 present in addition to the protoconid (e. g., Pelycodus, Chriacus, Pro- 

 log onid) or it may be developed after either the para- or the meta- 

 conid, or it may appear last of all, and in very many cases it is 

 altogether absent. Yet when it does appear, its homologies are 

 perfectly obvious. 



A fifth element is sometimes added to the premolar crown, pos- 

 terior to the protoconid, and interior to the metaconid, thus occupy- 

 ing the position held by the entoconid of the molars. Clearly 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



however, it caunot be homologous with that element, its place with 

 reference to the metaconid being entirely different. Its homologies 

 are rather with the tetartocone of the upper premolar, as will appear 

 when it is remembered that there is not that reversal in the position 

 of the cusps of the inferior premolars compared with the superior 

 ones which obtains between the upper and lower molars, the primary 

 cusp or protocone remaining upon the external side of the crown 

 in both upper and lower premolars. The tetartoconid is usually 

 the last cusp to make its appearance upon the crown of the inferior 

 premolar, but there are exceptions to this rule. For example, in 

 Triisodon p* consists of a very large protoconid and a lower but yet 

 large heel or talon, made up of the metaconid upon the outside 

 and the tetartoconid on the inside; neither para- nor deuteroconid 

 is present. 



In a former paper (No. 11, pp. 48-9) I gave a somewhat different 

 account of the evolution of the lower premolar, in that I regarded 

 the talon of the premolars as equivalent to that of the molars, and 

 like it composed of hypo- and entoconids. This seemed to follow 

 from the fact that the position of the cusps which make up the talon 

 with reference to the protoconid is the same in both classes of teeth. 

 An examination of a more extended series of premolars has, how- 

 ever, convinced me that the external element of the premolar talon 

 is the equivalent of the metaconid and not the hypoeonid of the 

 molar. If this be true, the internal element obviously cannot be 

 the entoconid, while its relation to the tetartocone of the superior 

 premolar is the same as that of the deuteroconid to the deutero- 

 cone. 



If the foregoing description be accepted as correct, it will appear 

 that, while the inferior premolars may contain three elements 

 which are homologous with molar cusps, the upper premolars con- 

 tain but one cusp which can be homologized with a molar cu.sp, 

 and, furthermore, that while in the molar crown the protocone is 

 on the inner, and the protoconid on the outer side, in both sets of 

 premolars, upper as well as lower, it retains its primitive position 

 upon the external side. 



The following table will serve to exhibit the correspondences of 

 position (not of homology) between the molar and premolar 

 elements when all are present. 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



417 



!" d'' ta" fui"^ rne.'^ en!^ 



" Fig. 3. 



Diagram to exhibit the relations of the molar and premolar cusps, showing the 

 fourth premolar and first molar of the left upper jaw and right lower jaw, pr 

 protocone, t/deuterocone, /r tritocone, te tetartocone,/^; paracone, me metacone, 

 /;y hypocone,//-'^ protoconid, /^^^ paraconid, 7)ied metaconid, ta^l tetanoconid, 

 A>«^hypoconid, enii entoconid. 



UPPER JAW. 



LOWER JAW. 



Molar. 



Protocone =: 



Paracone =-- 



Metacone = 



Hypocone = 



Premolar. 



Deuterocone 



Protocone 



Tritocone 



Tetartocone 



Molar. 



Protoconid 



Paraconid 



Metaconid 



Hypoconid 



Entoconid 



Premolar. 



Protoconid 



Paraconid 



Deuteroconid 



Metaconid 



Tetartoconid 



It now remains to consider the facts of premolar evolution as 

 they are exhibited by the various orders of mammals. This is pos- 

 sible as yet for only a small number of groups, the palseontological 

 evidence as to the others being too incomplete. The following 

 orders will therefore be omitted ; Monotremata, Marsupialia, Eden- 

 tata, Tillodontia, Cetacea and Sirenia. In those orders which are 

 taken into consideration, attention will be chiefly directed to the 

 extinct forms. 



I. PRIMATES. 



In this order the Lemuroidea and theMesodonta will beincluded 

 for the sake of convenience, these groups all belonging to the same 

 general series and characterized by great uniformity in the structure 

 of the teeth. 



The simplest type of premolar dentition in this series is presented 

 by the Puerco genus 3Iixodectes. Of this form only the inferior 

 teeth are known, and the premolars are remarkably simple; they 

 consist merely of a high, acute and recurved protoconid with a 

 rudimentary metaconid as a heel, which can hardly be called a 

 28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



distinct element. In Anajytomorphus of the Wasatch and Bridger 

 the lower premolars are as simple as in Mixodedes, but the upper 

 ones have added a deuterocone, which is particularly well developed 

 in p*. The type of premolar structure which is most prevalent among 

 the Eocene mesodonts is exemplified by Hyop.vjdnx, a genus which 

 is very abundantly represented in the Wasatch, Bridger aud Uinta 

 formations. In this genus the number of the premolars is still 

 uureduced, being f ; the anterior members of the series are of small 

 size and perfectly simple, but the posterior two in each jaw have 

 added new elements. lu the upper jaw Ps ^°<1 4 have a crown trans- 

 versely placed, consisting of a trenchant pyramidal protocoue and a 

 smaller but well developed deuterocone. In the lower jaw p^ has in 

 addition to the protoconid only a rudimentary metaconid, forming 

 an inconspicuous heel ; in p^ this heel is better developed, and on or at 

 the internal side of the protoconid appears a small deuteroconid. 

 In the existing representatives of the series, there is not very much 

 advance upon the degree of premolar complication found among 

 the Eocene mesodonts. In the lemurs there is the remarkable 

 change first pointed out by Schlosser (No. 10) that the most anterior 

 lower premolar has assumed the form and functions of the canine, 

 but it bites behind the upper canine. In the higher primates the 

 premolar type is that of the human "bicuspid," the crown consist- 

 ing of two elements only, the protocone and deuterocone. The 

 lower teeth do not exhibit the metaconid, which, as we have seen, is 

 imperfectly developed in some of the Eocene forms. 



II. CREODONTA. 



In this group there is considerable divergence as to the amount 

 aud kind of premolar development. P 1, 2 and 3 in both jaws 

 ordinarily remain quite simple, or at most complicated by the 

 addition of a small posterior basal cusp in the inferior teeth, repre- 

 senting the metaconid. Sometimes, however, these teeth become 

 very much more complicated, as in Oxycena and Palceonictis, in 

 which Pz and 3 have large and well developed deuterocones, and in 

 Pa^ a tritocone is added so that this tooth becomes a reduced copy 

 of the last premolar. Several other genera display a more or less 

 prominent deuterocone on Ps, as for example Deltatheriinn and 

 Dissacus, and in the lower jaw the metaconid may form a more or 

 less prominent talon on p-', as in the case in Dissacu-s, while in 

 Oxycena these cutting talons appear on all the inferior premolars 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



except the first, increasing in size as we pass from before backward 

 and thus corresponding with the development of the deuterocone in 

 the upper premolars. A very similar statement will apply to 

 Palceoiiictis. 



The fourth premolar in both jaws exhibits great variety among 

 creodonts from a completely molariform to an extremely simple 

 condition. Taking first the upper tooth, Ave find in such Puerco 

 genera as Oxyelrenns and Deltatherium, the simplest which occurs 

 among the creodonts, viz., a compressed, acute protocone, with 

 trenchant anterior and posterior edges and a conical deuterocone. 

 From this stage several distinct lines may be traced in as many 

 diverging directions. Proviverra agrees with Deltatherium in the 

 construction of this tooth, but in Smopa (Stypolophus) it is compli- 

 cated by the addition of a small ti'itocone and in some species, of 

 an anterior basal cusp, or protostyle, as well. Sinopa has thus 

 reached a stage of development of P4 in which all the elements of 

 the carnivorous sectorial are present, and yet the small size of the 

 tooth and especially the incomplete development of the tritocone 

 render the term sectorial inappropriate to such a tooth. In some of 

 the HycenodonticUe, however, as Oxycena for example, P4 fully 

 deserves to be called a sectorial, as the compressed protocone and 

 enlarged trenchant tritocone form a very efficient cutting blade. 

 But even here the main emphasis of development is on the first 

 molar, which is larger and of more functional importance than the 

 premolar. In this genus, P3, also has all the elements of a sectorial. 

 In Hycenodon itself, P4, is reduced in size and importance, ma being 

 the largest and most efficient tooth in the series ; the protocone is 

 large, but the tritocone is insignificant, and the deuterocone so 

 diminished that in some species it can hardly be said to exist as a 

 separate element. Palceonicth, though obviously belonging to a 

 phylum very distinct from that of the hyrenodonts, closely resembles 

 Oxycena in the condition of the superior premolars. 



The Miacidce alone among creodonts have attained the carni- 

 vorous type of dentition. The superior sectorial is not, it is true 

 more efficiently developed than in Oxycena, but, on the other hand, 

 the upper molars are tubercular, not sectorial at all. In Didymic- 

 tis P4 is quite like that of the viverrines, owing to the presence of a 

 small, but very distinct anterior basal cusp. 



A very different type of premolar tooth is that assumed by P* in 

 the 3fesouyclndce. Though the same elements are present as in 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Sinopa, their shape aud mutual relations are altogether different. 

 In Dlssacus, the oldest genus of the family, this tooth has all the 

 elements of the carnivorous sectorial, but the tritocone is added in 

 the form of a conical tubercle, (which is considerably smaller than 

 the protocone,) and not of a trenchant blade. In Pachycena of the 

 Wasatch and still more in the Bridger genus, 3fexonyx, the gradual 

 enlargement of the tritocone gives to the fourth premolar comjiletely 

 the pattern of the simple tritubercular molars. 



Little is known with regard to the superior premolars of the 

 Arctocyonidce. In Clcenodon (Mioclcenus) corrugatus, and presuTnahlj 

 also Ardocyon, Pa is a simple, compressed, conical tooth, supjiorted 

 by two fangs, aud therefore without deuterocone. P4 has a very 

 high and acute pyramidal protocone, on the anterior and posterior 

 edges of which the cingulum is so elevated as almost to deserve the 

 name of cusps. The tooth is implanted by three fangs and yet the 

 deuterocone is very obscurely marked. If we may provisionally 

 assign to this family the extraordinary and problematical genus, 

 MiodcBnus, the systematic position of which is altogether doubtful, 

 we may mention here the curiously thick, low, rounded and 

 massive premolars, which characterize the genus. P4 has a very 

 distinct deuterocone, and in Vz this element is more or less distinctly 

 differentiated. These premolars are very much more like those of 

 some of the Perijdychidce than they are like those of any known 

 creodont. 



^)- 



pa" 



fcV^ 



/ Z J 4 -f 



Fig. 4. 

 Fourth lower premolars of the left side, internal aspect. 1,? Tricentes subtri- 

 gonus ; 2 ? Clcenodon protogonioides ; 3 Chriacus stenops ; 4 Epichriacus schlos- 

 serianus ; 5 Deltatherium ftmdaminis. prd protoconid, a''^ deuteroconid,/^^^ par- 

 aconid, med metaconid. (Cope collection.) 



In the lower jaw p* generally has a heel, formed by the more or 

 less enlarged metaconid, and thus differs from the anterior pre- 

 molars merely in its greater size and more developed heel. The 

 paraconid is rarely added, though it becomes of importance in the 

 3Iesonychidce. In Dlssacus the paraconid is very small, but dis- 

 tinctly shown on j?^nd*, which have the protoconid remarkably 

 high and acute. In Fachycetia a similar condition may be observed 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



but the protoconid is relatively reduced, and the raetaconid 

 enlarged. In Mesonyx the paraconid makes its appearance on p^ 

 No member of this family develops a deutero- or tetartoconid in 

 the inferior premolars. In the Mesonychida', the lower premolars 

 thus become molariform, but the resemblance between the two 

 classes of teeth is due not only to the complication of the premolars 

 but also to the simplification of the molars, in which the paraconid 

 is reduced and the meta- and entoconids have altogether dis- 

 appeared. The elements composing the crowns of the two categories 

 of teeth are more nearly homologous than is usually the case, the 

 proto- and paraconids being common to both, but the talons are not 

 homologous, being formed in the premolars by the metaconid, and 

 in the molars by the hypoconid. 



In the Triimdontidie p* has a distinct resemblance to the corre- 

 sponding tooth in the Mesonychida', but the paraconid is not devel- 

 oped, and in Triisodon and S%rcothrau4e-i the large, transversely 

 directed heel is divided into two parts, the meta- and tetartoconids. 

 In Goniacodon the latter element does not occur. 



In Ardocyon and Clcenodon p* is remarkable for its great relative 

 size, but is very simply constructed, having in addition to the 

 protoconid merely an obscurely developed metaconid. In Tetra- 

 clcenodon, however, p^ has all the elements of a molar, but the 

 paraconid is very small, and the talon neither so high nor so complex 

 as in the molars. 



Oiriaciis (if we may assign that genus to the Creodonta) presents 

 an entirely different type of p*" from any which has been yet 

 described in this group, and one which is much more characteristi- 

 cally mesodont than creodont. In this tooth the only element 

 besides the protoconid which is present, is a small but perfectly 

 distinct deuteroconid upon the lingual side of the crown. Epiclma- 

 cus has in addition to this a very small paraconid. In DeltutJierium 

 the " primitive triangle " (a term which is applicable to the premolars 

 only by analogy, as it is rarely attained and then only in 

 advanced stages of differentiation) is almost as completely developed 

 as in the molars. In addition, there is a rudimentary heel in the 

 form of a very small metaconid, which, strange to say, has not kept 

 pace with the development of the deuterocone of P3. Not including 

 the Me-<o)iychid(r, which belong in a somewhat different category, 

 there are not less than three genera of creodonts, in which 

 attains more or less completely to the molar pattern, viz., Epichria- 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



cus, Deltatherium and Tetrackenodon. The later genera of the 

 ProviverrkUe have exceedingly simple inferior premolars. In Sin- 

 opa p=* and * have very obscure metaconids, and in the latter there is 

 an equally obscure paraconid. 



In the Hyosnodontirke p* has only a more or less enlarged meta- 

 conid in addition to the protoconid. In Oxycena the metaconid 

 forms a large trenchant blade; in Hycenodon the heel is much 

 reduced, but the protoconid is greatly enlarged, so that, with the 

 exception of the canine and m^ p* is the largest tooth in the jaw. 

 Pterndoii resembles Hyoenodon in this respect. Quercytheriuvi, 

 clearly a member of this family, is remarkable for the massiveness 

 of its inferior premolars, which almost rival those of Miodcenus. 



Pcd(Eonictis has very similar inferior jDremolars to those of 

 Oa;?/CEna, except for the much greater relative enlargement of p*. 

 In the Bi'idger genus Patriofelis this enlargement is carried still 

 further and at the same time the number of inferior premolars is 

 reduced to three. 



Didymictis is remarkable for the antero-posterior elongation of 

 p3 and * which have small but very well marked para- and metacon- 

 ids. In p^ the cingulum is raised on the hinder border of the tooth 

 making a second posterior cusp behind the metaconid. 



III. INSECTIVORA. 



In many of the existing insectivores the premolars have undergone 

 considerable modification, but unfortunately we can obtain but little 

 assistance from palaeontology in attempting to make out the stejis 

 of this modification. Among American genera of this order there 

 is only one family which is at all well understood, viz., the Leptididte 

 and in this group, strange to say, the oldest member yet discovered, 

 exhibits the most complicated premolar structure. This genus, 

 Idops, has been found only in the Wind River beds at the base of 

 the Bridger, and in the White River, though there can be no 

 doubt that it existed in the intervening period. In Idops the pre- 

 molars show an unusual degree of complication for an unguiculate 

 mammal. In the upper jaw Pi is very small and implanted by a 

 single fang. 1% is likewise small but is carried by two fangs, and 

 has a small tritocone, but no deuterocone. In Ps the protocone is 

 very high, and the tritocone, though distinct, i^ much smaller ; there 

 is also a well developed deuterocone, so that all the molar elements 

 are present, though owing to the disproportionate >\ze of the proto- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



and tritocones, the tooth cannot be called niolariforra. Ij is even 

 more complicated than the molars. As in the latter the two exter- 

 nal cusps are of equal size, and the deuterocone is much extended 

 transversely, also a small tetartocone corresponding to the hypocone 

 of the molars is present. In addition to these parts there is a small 

 basal cusp at the antero-external angle of the crown which does not 

 occur in the molars but which is found on p^ of many creodonts 

 and carnivores. In the lower jaw p' and'-, are small and simple, the 

 former being carried by one root and the latter by two : this tooth 

 is larger than the corresponding upper one. P^ has added a small 

 metaconid. P* is molariform, with the metaconid enlarged to a 

 talon, and para- and deuteroconids added. This tooth is distin- 

 guished from a true molar only by the greater relative size of the 

 protoconid. The White River species of this genus, I. dakotensis, 

 differs from the more ancient one, with respect to the dentition, 

 only in the fact that the deuterocone of P^ is no longer a conical 

 cusp, but transversely extended and crescentoid, the proto- and 

 tritocones are also more nearly equal in size ; in other words the 

 tooth is now completely molariform, even to a rudiment of the 

 tetartocone. 



In the White River genus, i/(?.sof?ecfe.s,Pj is molariform, but Ps has 

 no tritocone, the tooth consisting of a compressed and trenchant pro- 

 tocone, and internal to this a conical deuterocone. Cope calls these 

 teeth P4 and "h respectively, but this I think is a mistake. At all 

 events the statement, that, " in Leptictis the last premolar is sectorial 

 in form consisting of a single compressed longitudinal crest without 

 internal tuberosity or cusp, " is incorrect. (No. 2, p. 801.) 



In the genus Leptictis, also from the AVhite River beds, P3 is 

 without the deuterocone and resemblesthe anterior premolars in every 

 respect, except that it is slightly larger. ^4 is molariform, and Pi^ 

 differs from that of letups in being inserted by two fangs. So far 

 as we can judge at present, the series Idops, Mesodectes, Leptictis, 

 would appear to represent successive stages in the simplification of 

 P3. Doubtless the same is true of the lower premolars, but the 

 mandibular dentition of Mesodectes and Ljeptictis is unknown. 



Somewhat similar facts may be observed in comparing some of 

 the extinct European insectivores with their nearest living allies. 

 Thus Schlosser (No. 10. p. 117) regards the genus Farasorex as in 

 some measure connecting the Tupaiidm and the Macroscclidce, but 

 the extinct form has more complex premolars than cither of the 




424 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



recent families. In like manner Amphidozotheriiim, from the 

 Oligocene, resembles the Talpidce in molar structure, and is referred 

 to that family, but it has more complex premolars than the existing 

 moles. 



The recent genus Gymnnra agrees very well with Leptictis with 

 regard to the condition of the premolars, the last one in each jaw 

 having the elements of the molar crown. 



IV. CARKIVORA. 



In this group, the premolars never acquire any very great degree 

 of complication. In the Pinnipedia the molars and premolars are 

 very much alike, though this is due rather to a simplification of the 

 molars than to any complexity in the pi'emolars. These teeth may 

 either be simple conical bodies, as in the Otariidce and hooded seals 

 {Cystophord), with a crown consisting of a simple cusp and 

 implanted by a single fang ; or, as in the typical Phocidcc, both 

 classes of teeth are assimilated to one type, characterized by the 

 suppression of the internal cusps, and the addition of sharp basal 

 cusps on the anterior and posterior edges of the principal cone, 

 which appears to represent the paracone in the upper molars, and 

 the protocone in the premolars of both jaws and the lower molars. 

 We are, however, as yet entirely ignorant of the phylogeny of the 

 pinnipedes, and cannot therefore very well determine the homologies 

 of these elements. The dentition of the creodont family, Me--<o»y- 

 chidce, presents many analogies to that of the true seals, but there 

 can be no question of a genetic relationship between the two 

 groups 



Fig. 5. 

 Fourth upper premolar of left sifle, external and crown views. 1, Deltatheriiim 

 fundatnmis: 2, Sinopa w/iiiicz; 3, Cynodiclis gracilis: 4, Felis concolor. 

 Pr protocone, d deuterocone, tr tritocone, ps protostjle. (1 and 2 from the 

 Cope collection.) 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



The premolars of the fissipede carnivores have a different history. 

 In the upper jaw the anterior premolars are ordinarily composed of a 

 compressed and more or less trenchant protocone, and on P2 ^"^ 3 a 

 small tritocone may also be added. According to Schlosser (Ko. 10 

 p. 265) the Galecynns ceningensls of Owen is remarkable for the 

 presence of anterior cusps upon these teeth. The fourth or sectorial 

 premolar is constructed on essentially the same plan throughout the 

 group, a plan which is already foreshadowed in many creodonts 

 and fully attained in the Miacidce. Typically this tooth consists of 

 three elements, the proto-, deutero- and tritocones, the first and 

 third of which are more or less compressed and trenchant and form 

 the shearing blade. But there is much variation in regard to the 

 relative size and shape of these elements, and consequently in the 

 efficiency of the tooth as a sectorial weapon. In several groups a 

 fourth element is added ; viz., a cusp situated at the antero-external 

 angle of the crown. This cusp, which appears to be homologous 

 with the antero-external buttress or pillar of the perissodactyl 

 premolar reaches its highest development in the cats, though in the 

 earliest members of that group, the Nimravidce, it is always small 

 and sometimes rudimentary or absent (e. g. Dinictis.) The same 

 element occurs in the viverriues, the hyjenas, and the curious cy- 

 noid genus jElurodon of the Loup Fork has it largely developed. 

 The dentition of this genus presents some analogies with that of the 

 hysenas, especially in the massiveness of the premolars. The same 

 cusp also occurs in the creodont Didymictis. In the Vivei-ridce the 

 deuterocone is unusually well developed, and in some of the genera 

 is joined to the protocone by a sharp ridge running outward and 

 backward. The hyseuas display an unusual complication in that 

 the outer wall of the sectorial consists of four cusps, an additional 

 one occurring behind the tritocone. 



The derivation of the bears from primitive dogs is now very 

 generally admitted and the series of genera, Amphicyou, Hemicyon, 

 Hyomardos and Ursiis, enables us to trace the successive modifica- 

 tions of the upper sectorial. In the first named genus, the upper 

 sectorial is like that of a dog, but somewhat thickened ; in Hemi- 

 cyon, the tooth has become transversely extended and the deutero- 

 cone has shifted from the anterior edge to the middle line of the 

 crown. In Hyamarctos, Vi is reduced in relative size, and all the 

 cusps are lower and more massive, and in Ursus, the same process is 

 carried still further; the deuterocone has become almost atrophied, 

 and the proto- and tritocones are so low and blunt that the tooth 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



no longer deserves the name of sectorial. Among the Miisfelidie, we 

 find the upper sectorial very variously developed. In most cases it 

 is constructed as in the dogs. In the otters the deuterocone is 

 enormously expanded, both transversely and antero-posteriorly. 

 In Meles the sectorial is small, but possesses a minute tetartocone, 

 situated midway between the trito- and deuterocones, while in 

 Taxiclea the tooth is large, and the tetartocone acute and promi- 

 nent and yet the crown does not lose its triangular shape. 



In the ProcyonidcE the upper sectorial has likewise become 

 degraded to a tubercular condition, very similar to the construction 

 of the molars, but even more complex. In Proeyon there are three 

 external cusps, the anterior accessory cone, the pi'oto-and tritocones, 

 the two latter of nearly equal height and conical shape. The inner 

 side of the crown is nearly as long antero-posteriorly, as the outer, 

 and is composed of two elements, the deutero- and tetartocones. In 

 Cercoleptes, P4 is very similar to that of the viverriue genus Ai-dic- 

 tis and is a quadrituberculate tooth of nearly square outline. 



The lower premolars of the Carnivora are always more or less 

 simple and trenchant, though they vary much in respect to thickness, 

 height, acuteness, etc. They very generally display the raetaconid, 

 and sometimes an additional basal cusp is formed by the elevation 

 of the cingulum posterior to the metaconid. The paraconid is 

 seldom developed, but occurs in many of the viverrines ; even the 

 excessively microdont dentition of Eupleres exhibits it. 



V. RODENTIA. 



Our knowledge of the phylogeny of the rodents is so incomplete 

 and fragmentary that little can be said with regard to the evolution 

 of their premolars. The most striking fact about these teeth is the 

 great reduction which they have undergone. In several genera 

 they are altogether absent and in the great majority of species the 

 formula is t or %. The most ancient genus of rodents whose denti- 

 tion is well known is Plesiardomys which is found in all the Ameri- 

 can Eocenes above the Puerco and in the upper Eocene of Europe. 

 In those animals the premolar formula and the construction of the 

 crowns are like those of the squirrels, f. In the upper jaw, the first 

 premolar (pj*) is a rudimentary tooth, and the second (p*) is molari- 

 form ; a tritubercular crown, consisting of two external cusps, the 

 proto- and tritocones, and the deuterocone internally. It is inter- 

 esting to observe that this construction of P* corresponds closely to 

 what we find in many insectivores and creodonts. The inferior pre- 

 molar also has all the elements of a molar, though their relative 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



427 



1892.] 



proportions are somewhat different ; there is a high protoconid, a 

 much smaller deuteroconid and a talon consisting of meta- and 

 tetartoconids ; the cusps are all connected around the periphery of 

 the crown by crests which thus enclose a deep central concavity. 



The teeth of later rodent genera often attain a very high degree 

 of complication and when premolars are present they follow all the 

 stages of molar evolution, at least in the case of the fourth pair, 

 but materials are wanting to enable us to trace the steps of increas- 

 ing complexity. 



VI. CONDYLARTHRA. 



In the family Phenaeodontidce some very instructive series may 

 be observed. The superior dentition of Protogonodon {=Miochenus 

 pentacus Cope) is unknown, but in the lower jaw, the premolars, 



even the last one, are simple acute 

 cones, but rudiments of a deuteroconid 

 are observable in some specimens, now 

 larger, now smaller. In Proiogonia 

 this element becomes enlarged and 

 very distinctly separated from the pro- 

 toconid, and at the same time a rudi- 

 Fourth lower premolar of right mentary metaconid makes its appear- 

 side, internal aspect. 1 and 2 of ^nce. In Phemicodus vortmaui, in ad- 



Frotogonodon pentacus, 3 of Pro- . 



togonia pliciferao pi d ^xo\ocon\A, dition to these elements, a paraconid 

 /a^paraconid, med metaconid, dd jg developed and the metaconid is ele- 



deuteroconid. (Cope collection.) i t n • • i 



' vated. in P. primceviis a paraconid 

 and a very small tetartoconid are added and p'^ is now made more 

 complex by the appearance of the deuteroconid, which is present in 

 rudimentary form, even on p^ A similar series may be made out 

 in the upper jaw. ^ is simple in Proiogonia and contains only the 

 protocone, while P* has added the deuterocone. In Pheiiacodus 

 vortmani, P* has also acquired the tritocone, and besides this we find 

 the antero-intermediate cusp, or conule, analogous to and occupying 



the same relative posi- 

 tion as the protoconule 

 of the molars, though 

 obviously not homolo- 

 gous with that element. 

 Fig. 7. The occurrence of the 



Upper premolars of Condylarihra, right side. 1, conules is one of especial 

 p^ and * of Phenacodus primavns, 2, of P. vorl- . i j- 



mayii, 3, p' of Protngonia suhquadrata, pr, proto- interest, aS tending tO 

 cone, d, deuterocone, tr, tritocone. (After Cope). show that the premolar 



Fig. 6. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



crests in the perissodactyls, where they attain such a high develop- 

 ment, arise, as in the molars, from the extension of the intermedi- 

 ate cusps and their coalescence with the internal and external cones. 

 ^ in this species is also tritubercular, but the deutero- and trito" 

 cones are very obscurely marked and the tooth is very much smal- 

 ler than P*. P. ^w'tHicevHS differs from P. vortmani in the increased 

 size and quadrate shape of P*, and in the much more distinctly sep- 

 arated elements of P^. 



The Periptychidce have less complex premolars than the preced- 

 ing family. In Periptychus itself the superior premolars, except 

 the first, have deuterocones, which have become crescentoid and 

 thus remotely suggest the corresponding teeth of the true rumi- 

 nants. The composition of the lower premolars is not altogether 

 clear, but p^^ncT^ appear to have merely a rudimentary crest-like 

 heel, while p* has a deuteroconid, a rudimentary paraconid and a 

 heel which consists of meta- and tetartoconids. This tooth, there- 

 fore, contains all the molar elements, but still it cannot be called 

 molariform on account of the slight elevation of the heel. Hemi- 

 thUeus has very simple premolars. P^and^ consist of the proto- and 

 deuterocones only. In the lower jaw the first and second premolars 

 have only the protoconid with no accessory lobes whatever ; the com- 

 position of p1A"4_* is not known. The difierent species of Anisonchus 

 display an advancing degree of premolar complication. In A. gUlianus 

 P^ is a simple massive cone, while P'' and * have well developed deutero- 

 cones. P" has a thick protoconid and very small para- and meta- 

 conids, which are hardly more than elevations of the cingulum. In 

 p* the metacouid is elevated into a considerable heel. The first and 

 second upj^er premolars of A. sedorius are not known, but in p^ and ^ 

 the deuterocones have become much enlarged and form crescent- 

 like ridges and minute rudiment? of the tritocone may also be 

 detected. In the lower jaw p^~"^nd^ have the para- and metaconids 

 well differentiated. In A. corniferus all of the superior premolars 

 are implanted by three fangs, and though it is not certain that P^ 

 possesses a deuterocone, all the others clearly have it. At the same 

 time not even P^ has developed a tritocone. The superior premo- 

 lars of Haploconus are known only for two species, H. lineatus and 

 H. entoconus and both agree in the simplicity of all except p*, which 

 has the usual deuterocone, but in the former species this element 

 forms a crescent, and in the latter a conical tubercle. The lower 

 premolars have metaconid heels of varying degrees of development 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



in the different species, but no deuteroconid ; in H. xiphodon and 

 H. lineatus the talon (metaconid) of p" and «^ ig separated by a 

 median depression into long external and internal ridges, a ten- 

 dency which also appears in many primitive artiodactyls. 



In all the members of the Periptychidce there is a more or less 

 decided tendency for the premolars to become very massive and in 

 many species they are distinctly larger than the molars. 



VII. HYRACOIDEA. 



The discovery, recently announced by Professor Marsh (No. 6), 

 of the foot-structure of Meniscotherium justifies, in my opinion, 

 the removal of that gepus and family from the Condylarthra to the 

 Hyracoidea. Meniscotherium, low as is its place in the geological 

 scale, already exhibits a considerable degree of premolar complica- 

 tion and although we cannot assert that it is the ancestor of Proeai;ta 

 (Hyrax, see Oldfield Thomas, No. 13), yet it will suffice to show 

 the stages of dental evolution. P" is small and simple, implanted 

 by a single fang ; p^ has a similar but somewhat larger crown, and 

 is inserted by two roots. ^ has a deuterocone of more or less crescen- 

 tic pattern, while P* is almost molariform. The proto- and trito- 

 cones are of nearly equal size, are compressed and so joined together 

 as to make a wall. The deuterocone is a large conical tubercle, and 

 the anterior and posterior conules are present, thus forming a tooth 

 which has almost exactly the same construction as "^ which lacks 

 the hypocone, as P^ does the tetartocone. There is some variation in 

 the construction of this tooth, in the presence or absence of a ridge 

 upon the external wall of the crown, marking the separation between 

 the proto- and tritocones, and also in the condition of the cingulum. 



In the lower jaw the premolars are very small and simple. P 

 has a minute heel and the fangs are fused together. F is similar 

 but slightly larger. P* is molariform and consists of two crescents, 

 the composition of which is as follows : the protoconid sends a 

 curved crest inward and forward to what may or may not be the 

 paraconid, and a straight crest inwardly to the deuteroconid ; the 

 posterior crescent is likewise formed by two ridges which pass from 

 the metaconid to the tetarto- and deuteroconids respectively. 



In Procavia (Hyrax) the premolars have all assumed a molar 

 pattern and the lophodont condition is more completely attained, 

 though in the unworn tooth the separate elements may still be made 

 out, which show that the premolars are constructed essentially like 

 the hindermost of the series in Meniscotherium. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



VIII. PERISSODACTYLA. 



A very high degree of premolar differentiation is characteristic 

 of this group. In all of the existing families these teeth have 

 assumed the molar pattern, a tendency which very early becomes 

 apparent in the ancestral forms, and even the extinct phyla^ such as 

 the Hyracodontidce, Palceotheriidce, Titanotheriidce, etc., run through 

 the same course. 



The Wasatch perissodactyls have all advanced beyond the Phen- 

 acodontidcp which are contemporary with them, so far as dental evo- 

 lution is concerned. In Systemodo7i the only one of the superior 

 premolar series which is without additions to the protocone is the 

 first, and even in that there is a faint anterior thickening of the 

 cingulum, which represents the pillar or buttress, so conspicuous on 

 the other premolars. P^ has quite a large deuterocone and a rudimen- 

 tary tritocone which is barely separated from the protocone; the 

 anterior pillar is slightly better developed than on p^. Seen from 

 the external or buccal side, P^ and ^ resemble the molars, having 

 proto- and tritocones of nearly equal size, and the anterior pillar 

 largely developed ; internally, however, there is only one cusp, the 

 deuterocone, which sends out two crests toward the outer wall of 

 the tooth. These crests appear to be developed from conules analo- 

 gous to those of the molars, and in P^ the posterior conule is not 

 connected with either the deutero- or the tritocone. 



The inferior premolars vary somewhat in the different species of 

 the genus. In S. semihians ps'is very simple, having added only a 

 small metaconid to the compressed and acute protocouid. P* has 

 also two internal cusps, the deuteroconid in front and tetartoconid 

 behind. The number of cusps present is thus the same as in the molars 

 but the small size of the internal elements and the low heel give to 

 the crown a very different appearance. In S. tajnrinus p^ consists 

 of two crescent-shaped cusps, the proto- and metaconids, of which 

 the former rises considerably higher than the latter, but the tooth 

 possesses no internal elements at all. P^ has a similar crescent- 

 shaped metaconid, but the protoconid is compressed and pointed. 



The genus Isedolophus, which continues this series through the 

 Bridger and Uinta formations, does not present any modifications 

 in premolar structure which require special description. 



In the White River form Mesotapiriis the last upper premolar 

 has assumed the molar pattern by the addition of a tetartocone and 

 in the lower jaw p' and * have the same number of elements as the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



molar crowus, but in their appearance they differ from those teeth, 

 owing to the much greater prominence of the protoconid. 



The existing representative of this line is the tapir which, like 

 the other recent families of the group, has all the premolars, except 

 the first, in both jaws of the molar type. This is brought about 

 merely by the addition of the tetartocone in the upper teeth, and 

 by the elevation of the heel in the lower ones. 



In the rhinoceros series essentially the same steps may be 

 observed. The most ancient known member of the series, though 

 perhaps not in the direct line of descent, is the Wasatch Heptudon, 

 in which the last three upper premolars are composed of the same 

 elements differing only in size and in the degree of separation of 

 the tritocone from the protocone. In all of these teeth, the 

 deuterocone, with its anterior and posterior crests, is present, and in 

 all there is a well marked anterior buttress, formed by the elevation 

 of the cingulum, and which on P4 is as large as in the molars. P 

 is extremely small. In the lower jaw pi appears to be wanting, and 

 the others increase in size and complexity posteriorly. P* has an 

 anterior crest, composed of the proto- and deuteroconids, and a 

 basin-shaped heel, of which the outer and inner cusps are only 

 obscurely indicated. This tooth is, therefore, nearly molariform. 

 In p3 the deuteroconid is present, but not at all prominent, and does 

 not form a crest with the protoconid, and the heel is still smaller 

 and lower than on p*. 



The superior premolars of the Bridger genus Hyrachyi(.<, are 

 essentially the same as those of Heptodon, as are also the inferior 

 series, except that p^ has approximated somewhat more closely to the 

 molar condition, owing to the greater elevation of the heel. Hela- 

 letes (Desmatotherium), however, though contemporary with Hyra- 

 chyus, exhibits an important advance in the appearance of the 

 tetartocone on P3 and ^ as a very minute cusp, hardly separated from 

 the deuterocone. In the Uinta form Amynodon the separation of the 

 deutero- and tetartocones is complete, but the crests, and especially 

 the posterior one, are very low. Even in Aceratherinm, the White 

 Eiver rhinoceros, the deutero- and tetartocones are much more 

 closely approximated than are the analogous cusps of the molars 

 (proto- and hypocones), and in advanced stages of wear the pre- 

 molars present a somewhat different appearance from the molars, 

 seeming to have but one internal element, in which both anterior 

 and posterior transverse crests unite. In the lower jaw the trans- 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



formation is more complete, p' — * being altogether like the molars, 

 though, as we have seen, the elements were already present in 

 Hyrachyus. 



In the later genera of the rhinoceros line, such as Aphelops, Rhi- 

 nocerus, etc., the last three premolars in both jaws are hardly to be 

 distinguished from molars. It will be unnecessary to describe the 

 evolution of the premolars in the Triplopus-Hyracodon series, as in 

 them essentially the same stages may be noted. 



Turning now to the Titanotheinum line, we find a very similar 

 order of events. The most ancient genus which can be referred to 

 this series is the Wasatch Lamhdotherium, in which P2 ^" ^ 3 are tri- 

 gonodont, consisting of proto-, deutero- and tritocones, with a more 

 or less clearly defined anterior conule. One important difference, 

 however, between the upper jDremolars and molars should be noted, 

 viz., that in the former the external cusps are convex, more or less 

 strongly, on] the outer side, while the external cusps of the molars 

 are deeply concave on the outer side, and thus form V-shaped 

 crests. In the lower jaw p^ is very simple ; it consists of a high, 

 acute protoconid, a well developed metaconid and an anterior basal 

 elevation which may represent a rudimentary paraconid. On p* 

 the metaconid is enlarged and a minute deuteroconid makes its 

 appearance upon the internal or lingual side of the protoconid. 

 P* is almost molariform ; the proto- and deuteroconids form a crest 

 and a very low and inconspicuous tetartoconid is added. However, 

 neither the anterior nor the posterior V characteristic of the molars 

 is complete, owing to the rudimentary character of both the para- 

 and tetartoconids. 



The Bridger genera, Palceosyop-'< and Telmatherium, aside from their 

 larger size, have premolars very much like those of Lamhdotherium, 

 only the fourth inferior premolar has the V-shaped crests better 

 developed through the elevation of the para- and tetartoconids. In 

 Telmatherium this elevation has proceeded so far that the tooth may 

 fairly be called molariform. In the upper jaw we observe the same 

 striking difference between the convex external lobes of the pre- 

 molars and the deeply concave ones of the molars. Another 

 change is the reduction or suppression of the conules in both classes 

 of teeth. 



This series is represented in the Uinta beds by Diplacodon, in 

 which Vi has become like the molars through the addition of the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA, 433 



tetartocone and the corresponding tooth in the lower jaw is com- 

 pletely so. 



The line ends with the extraordinary genus, Tifanotheriuyn, of the 

 lower White River horizon, in which P2' 3^"^ i have added the second 

 internal cusp and thus become molariform, though the difference in 

 the form of the external cusps becomes even more marked than in 

 the older genera of the series, for, although those of the premolars 

 have become somewhat flattened, those of the molars have become 

 excessively concave and are separated by a very prominent fold of 

 enamel which projects much more strongly than in Palceosyops. 

 Another diflference between the two classes of teeth is the much 

 smaller size of the premolars. In the lower jaw, also, p^.^'aruT* have 

 become molariform, in a way that is unnecessary to describe, since 

 it is the same as that already given in the case of p* for Lambdothe- 

 rium and Telmatherium. 



IX. ARTIODACTYLA. 



The members of this group never attain the high degree of homo- 

 dontism which is characteristic of all the later perissodactyls, and 

 yet they display a considerable amount of premolar complication 

 and one Avhich is brought about in very different ways in the differ- 

 ent groups of the order, there not being the same uniformity in the 

 steps of differentiation which we have found among the perisso- 

 dactyls. 



The most primitive type of artiodactyl dentition is that of Pan- 

 tolestes, of the Wasatch, a genus, the true systematic position of 

 which was made clear only by the discovery of its foot-structure. 

 Previously it had been referred to the mesodonts and creodonts. In 

 Panfoledes brachyxtomus, the only species in which the feet are 

 known, Pi and ., have not been found, but Pa ^"'^4 agree in structure, 

 having one external and one internal cusp, the proto- and deutero- 

 cones respectively. The lower premolars are extremely simple. 

 p2 — * are elongated in the antero-posterior direction and have 

 compressed, trenchant crowns, which are made up of the large pro- 

 toconid, with minute but distinct and sharp para- and metaconids. 



From the Pantoledes type of dentition many divergent lines may 

 be traced. We may begin our examination with the Oreodontidce, 

 an extremely peculiar American family, of which the most ancient 

 member known is the Uinta genus, Proforeodon. Here the upper 

 premolars are very simple, having a compressed protocone with 



29 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892» 



trenchant edges ; a deuterocone is clearly marked only on P4, where 

 it has become crescentic in shape, while Pz ^"d 3 have trihedral 

 crowns, but no distinct internal element. In the lower jaw pi has 

 become much elevated and pointed, and has taken on the form and 

 function of a canine, the true canine having gone over to the inci- 

 sor series, as in the true ruminants. This disposition of pi is highly 

 characteristic of the family. The other premolars (p* — *) have 

 neither para- nor metaconids, but compressed, trenchant and acute 

 protoconids, upon the inner side of which low ridges inclose two 

 shallow foss?e, one anterior and the other posterior. It is difficult 

 to homologize these ridges with the elements which we have 

 described in the premolars of other groups. The later oreodonts 

 are divided into two very distinct lines, the Agriochcerince, and the Ore- 

 odontince. In the former subfamily the White Kiver genus Agrio- 

 choerm displays an unusual degree of premolar complication for an 

 avtiodactyl. In the upper series the anterior three teeth are very sim- 

 ple and the external surface of the protocone is convex or flattened, 

 but P3 has a small deuterocone which is somewhat back of the mid- 

 dle. P4 is almost molariform ; the tritocone is somewhat smaller 

 than the protocone and both are concave on the outer side, though 

 somewhat less so than the molars. The tetartocone is a mere rudi- 

 ment. In the lower jaw pi is, as in the other'members of the family, 

 like a canine in form and function ; p^ and ^ are simple compressed 

 cones, while p* has all the elements of a molar and consists of two 

 pairs of crescents ; the anterior pair is made up of the proto- and 

 deuteroconids, and the posterior pair of the meta- and tetartoconids. 

 In one respect, however, this tooth is different from a molar, in that 

 the deuteroconid retains its conical shape and in consequence the 

 anterior valley opens inward in front of it, whereas, in the molar 

 the metaconid, which occupies an analogous position, is compressed 

 and flattened and by its extension forward encloses the valley com- 

 pletely. P* of Agriochoeriis is much like the curious molars of 

 Lophiomeryx. 



In the Oreodontiiice the premolars develop in somewhat different 

 fashion, r^ is like that of the true ruminants and has a single pair 

 of crescents, the deuterocone having a completely crescentic shape. 

 The anterior premolars, when seen from the outside, ajipear to be 

 perfectly simple and trenchant, but the inner side of the crown has 

 a number of ridges disposed as loops and festoons, and which seem 

 to stand in no very definite relation to the premolar elements here- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



tofore described, though in position they correspond to the cres- 

 centic ridges which in P4 run from the deuterocone to the anterior 

 and posterior edges of the protocone. The posterior crest is best 

 developed and on Ps is especially prominent. In the lower series 

 p^ is enlarged, simple and caniuiform ; p- and » are smaller and have 

 compressed, pyramidal protoconids, from the apex of which an 

 oblique ridge descends internally, ending in an exceedingly minute 

 deuteroconid ; a small talon is present on jA The last premolar has 

 the deuteroconid much increased and almost equalling the proto- 

 conid in height ; the low talon consists of the metaconid and a very 

 small tetartoconid. 



The genera Merychyus and Merycochoerus closely resemble Oreo- 

 don in the character of their dentition, but have made some 

 advances in the structure of the premolars. Thus in p" and ^ the 

 internal crescentic ridges have almost united and so, when some- 

 what worn, present an appearance not unlike that of P4. On p'^ the 

 deuteroconid is more distinct and on ^ji it is separated from the pro- 

 toconid by a wider interval, producing a pattern quite like that 

 seen in the lower premolars of early members of the true ruminant 

 line. 



Leptauchenia exhibits again a different order of events. Ij is 

 very small and simple ; on p" and ^ the anterior crescentic ridge has 

 disappeared, while the posterior one is somewhat extended and thus 

 the crown of the tooth is invaded by a deep narrow valley which 

 runs backward and outward from the antero-internal angle. The 

 inferior premolars are simplified and reduced in size ; only p* dis- 

 plays a distinct deuteroconid and heel. Cyclopidius and Pithecistes 

 exaggerate the peculiarities of skull structure shown in Leptauche- 

 nia and it may be presumed that the same is true of their dental 

 characters, but the valleys are obliterated so early in these teeth 

 that I can state nothing further than the very obvious fact of a 

 great reduction in size of the premolars. 



In the tylopodan series the premolars of Xe/)^o/rap'M/(<s are not suf- 

 ficiently well known to detain us, and we may, therefore, commence 

 our survey with the White River genus, Poebrotheriiim. In this form 

 Pi has a simple and trenchant crown, which is remarkable for its fore 

 and aft extension. P^ ^""^^ 3 are of the same general character, but are 

 even more elongated (antero-posteriorly) and Ps sometimes exhibits 

 the posterior internal crescentic ridge, though this is variable. P4 

 is of the ordinary selenodont pattern, composed of crescentic proto- 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and deuterocoues. P has a small and simple crown. The other 

 premolars are greatly extended antero-posteriorly and are greatly 

 compressed; on p^lmd * the deuteroconid is represented by a ridge 

 which descends from the inner side of the apex of the protoconid, 

 which is obscurely indicated on p^ but distinct on p*. All the pre- 

 molars except the first have paraconids. 



In Procamelm, of the Loup Fork, the first and second upper pre- 

 molars are small and simple, in the third an internal crescent is 

 almost completed by the extension of the anterior and posterior 

 internal ridges, which have not quite coalesced, and leave a small 

 gap opposite the apex of the protocone. P* is of the typical rumi- 

 nant pattern and resembles that of Poebrotherium. The most pecu- 

 liar stage of premolar reduction in the cameline series is, however, 

 that displayed by the Pliocene genera, Holomeuiscus and £<chatiu.s, 

 which have lost all the premolars, except the fourth, of each series. 

 In the former genus P4 is of the ordinary pattern, composed of an 

 external crescent, the protocone, and the crescentic deuterocone, 

 ■while in Eschatiiis this tooth is reduced to a simple cone through 

 the suppression of the internal element. 



In the Tragulina the premolars remain very simple and tren- 

 chant, with small and sharp anterior and posterior basal cusps, 

 though Pi is of the typical ruminant pattern. The curious little 

 White River genus Leptomeryx (if I do not err in referring it to 

 this group), is remarkable for the complexity of its premolars. 

 F2 and 3 have elongated and acute protocones with trenchant mar- 

 gins and well developed conical deuterocoues, and on P3 a small 

 ridge passes from the anterior edge of this element to the outer side 

 of the crown, enclosing a small valley. In Tragidii-^ the deutero- 

 cone is the merest rudiment and it should be added that specimens 

 of Leptomeryx occur with premolars as simple as those of the 

 recent genus. The lower premolars of Leptomeryx are also more 

 complex than in Tragulus. pi is very small and simple and is iso- 

 lated by a diastema both before and behind it ; the succeeding 

 teeth have acute and trenchant protoconids, to which is added on 

 p2 a metaconid, and on p^^nd * both para- and metacouids. On the 

 latter the deuteroconid is represented by a thin crest which runs 

 back from the apex of the protoconid parallel to its posterior mar- 

 gin and enclosing a deep valley ; an indication of the same struc- 

 ture, but not nearly so marked, is visible on p^. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



The main facts of premolar evolution among the Pecora will be 

 sufficiently explained b)^ a consideration of the series Dichobune, 

 Gelociis, Prodreinotherium and Palceomeryx, without taking into 

 account the numerous small variations which occur among the 

 recent forms, Dichobune displays no important advance over Pan- 

 tole^tes in the structure of the upper premolars, but the last lower 

 one (p*) has, in addition to the proto-, para- and metaconids a dis- 

 tinct tubei'cular deuteroconid. Gelocus, although a typical rumi- 

 nant and much nearer to the modern types than Dichobune in 

 almost every particular of structure, has, nevertheless, made no 

 noteworthy advance over that genus as regards the character of the 

 premolars. In Prodremotherium Ps has completed the internal 

 crescent, but it is important to notice that the deuterocoue is eccen- 

 tric in position and much nearer to the posterior margin of the 

 -crown than the anterior. Pg has a rudimentary deuterocone. In 

 the lower jaw p* has, when seen from the outer side, a trilobate 

 appearance, the proto-, para- and metaconids being all present ; in 

 addition to these there is a well marked deuteroconid and a less 

 distinct tetartoconid which are connected by very short transverse 

 ridges with the external cusps which stand opposite to them. On 

 p'-and'^ these internal elements are indicated only by faintly marked 

 ridges. Palceoineryx has all the upper premolars of the same pattern, 

 the inner crescent being now completed on the most anterior tooth (P2) 

 and the deuterocone having assumed a symmetrical position on P3. 

 The inferior premolars are like those of Prodremotherium, except 

 that on p'ajKr^ the internal cusps and transverse ridges are much 

 better developed and the enclosed valleys deeper ; p- is somewhat 

 reduced. From this condition that of the lower teeth in the vari- 

 ous recent families may readily be traced. 



It would not be worth while to describe the numberless minor varia- 

 tions of the premolars which occur in the various genera of extinct 

 selenodonts contained in the families of the anoplotheres, anthra- 

 cotheres, xiphodonts, etc. It will suffice to mention some of the 

 more salient peculiarities. In the problematical little Hypi^odus of 

 the White River, the inferior incisors, canines and first two premo- 

 lars form a continuous series of twelve subequal teeth. Xiphodonthe- 

 rium has lost the first lower premolar and p" has become caniniform. 



In Bhagatherium P4 is molariform and has five cusps, the ante- 

 rior conule being present in addition to the four main eleriients. 

 P* is exceptional in being like its predecessor in the milk dentition ; 




438 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1892. 



tlie paraconid is enlarged nearly to the size of the protoconid and 

 on the inner side a conical cusp is added, the tooth thus consisting 

 of three pairs of cusps. A similar p* occurs in Dichodon. 



Fig. 8. 



Fourth upper and lower premolars of leftside. ], Dicotyles torquatus ; 2, 

 Thmohyus hiitus ; Z, Perchcerus probus ; \, Pantolestes brachystoimis. Letters 

 as in the preceding figures. 



Among the Suina the peccaries offer the mo.?t interesting series. 

 The White River and John Day forerunners of that group, Perchaenis 

 and Thinohyus, have extremely simple premolars ; P* consists of proto- 

 and deuterocones only, and in p* the only addition is the low and 

 broad metaconid. In Dicotyles the last premolars are nearly or 

 quite like the molars. In P4 the tritocone is first added and then 

 the tetartocone, the latter not always occurring, even in the recent spe- 

 cies. In p* the order of events is similar, first the deuteroconid is 

 added and then the tetartoconid, the latter element and the meta- 

 conid being at the same time more or less elevated. The curious 

 Lisiriodon, a true pig, exhibits a similar condition ; P4 has devel- 

 oped a tritocone, equal in size to the protocone, and Pj has a large 

 deuterocone. On the other hand, p* has added only the deutero- 

 conid, the talon consisting only of the metaconid. 



It might seem at first sight that many artiodactyls presented an 

 important divergence from the normal scheme of premolar evolu- 

 tion in the way in which the inner crescent of the anterior 

 upper teeth is developed, viz., by the coalescence of anterior and 

 posterior ridges. This is seen in Procamelu-i, several of the Oreo- 

 dontidce, in some specimens of Pa/ceomeryx, and other forms. But, 

 on the other hand, a careful comparison of the various series will 

 show that the departure from the ordinary course of development 

 is not so radical as it seems. The posterior crest undoubtedly rep- 




1892.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



resents the deuterocone and the only difference, therefore, consists 

 in the fact that the anterior horn of the inner crest is not developed 

 from the deuterocone, as in P4, but from the front margin of the 

 protocone or from the cingulum. 



X. AMBLYPODA. 



The oldest representative of this group is the Puerco genus 

 Pantolambda, in which the premolars have already attained quite 

 an advanced stage of differentiation. Except in Pi the superior 

 premolars consist of a crescentic and acute protocone which pro- 

 jects strongly toward the inner side of the tooth, and a crescentic deu- 

 terocone. Seen from the outside, the last three inferior premolars 

 seem to be simple, compressed and trenchant cones with metaconids 

 which become better marked as we pass from p^ to p^. But in 

 reality p* supports a complete anterior V and a broad transverse 

 talon ; the V is less developed on p^ and very obscurely indicated 

 on p-. The superior premolars of Coryphodon show no advance 

 upon those of Pantolambda. The lower premolars are in gen- 

 eral like those of the Puerco genus, but the species vary in the 

 completeness with which the cusps are distinguished. In BatJnno- 

 don radians the protoconid is concave externally and shows a dis- 

 tinct cusp on its Older side. 



In the Dinocerata the homologies of the cusps in both the molar 

 and premolar series are exceedingly obscure, owing not only to their 

 own peculiarities, which are very marked, but also to the lack of 

 any intermediate links by which to connect them with more typical 

 forms of teeth. It will, therefore, suffice to say that in this group, 

 with the exception of Bathyopsis, the first premolar in both jaws 

 has disappeared and that the remaining teeth in this series have 

 assumed the molar pattern. The crown is traversed by two ridges 

 which meet internally and thus form a V which opens outwardly. 

 Strange to say, this arrangement obtains in both upper and lower 

 teeth, the usual reversal of pattern not being found. 



XI. PROBOSCIDEA. 



The phylogeny of the elephants is still an unsolved problem and 

 we therefore know little as to the homologies of their molar cusps. 

 From several facts, however, we may infer that their molar teeth were 

 derived from a quadritubercular form. This condition is retained 

 in the premolars of Mastodon, upper and lower alike. In Dinothe- 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



rmm the cusps have united to form a pair of transverse crests, but 

 a reminiscence of the tubercular stage is preserved in Pa. In this 

 tooth the posterior crest is complete, formed by the junction of the 

 trito- and tetartocones, but the anterior crest is unfinished, the deu- 

 terocone remaining isolated from the protocone. 



The foregoing brief survey of the steps of premolar development 

 in those mammalian groups which enable us to follow it out, shows 

 very clearly that the premolars follow an order of differentiation 

 quite at variance with that attributed to the molars, even w^hen the 

 final results are the same. It also shows that in the fourth upper 

 premolar the order of succession in the appearance of the cusps is 

 remarkably constant, while in the other superior premolars and in 

 all of the lower ones, the order is very much less regular. But 

 even in these cases the homologies are clearly given by the position 

 of the new elements with reference to the primary cusp or proto- 

 cone. Some of the Artiodactyla, however (e. g., Proeamelus), 

 appear to depart altogether from the typical order, in that the inner 

 crescent of P2 or Pa ( or both) is formed, not by the extension of a 

 single element, the deuterocone, but by the coalesence of two. Even 

 in these cases, however, we found reason to believe that the depar- 

 ture from the normal was less radical than at first sight seemed to 

 be true, for the posterior element of the crest is with great proba- 

 bility to be homologized with the deuterocone. Another result 

 which follows from our survey of premolar development, is the 

 steadiness with which it is followed out when once undertaken. 

 The cusps do not appear hap-hazard, or in a tentative way, but 

 definitely may be traced from the faintest beginnings to the final 

 result. It is obvious, further, that the same result may be indepen- 

 dently attained many times in widely separated groups, and by pre- 

 cisely similar steps. Nothing could be more eloquent of the danger 

 of constructing phylogenies from the teeth alone. Often, it is true, 

 they would turn out to be right, but not infrequently they would 

 lead to the grossest error. 



The Milk Dentition. 



Palaeontology is not fitted to throw very much light upon the 

 relation of the milk molars to the permanent set, i. e., with regard 

 to the homologies of the cusps, for it is exceedingly difficult to 

 obtain phylogenetic series of the temporary dentition. Some facts 

 may, however, be gleaned which are not altogether devoid of value. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



Thus, the genesis of the third upper milk molar (d^) in the Oreo- 

 dontidce shows that in that tooth, at least, the order of succession of 

 the cusps is different from that which occurs in the premolars, but 

 on the other hand, the homologies of these cusps, as determined by 

 their position, is the same as in the premolars. In Oreodon ^3 con- 

 sists of three cusps, of which the anterior one is extended and tren- 

 chant and obviously corresponds to the protocone of the premolars ; 

 posterior to this are two smaller crescentic cusps, the outer one of 

 which is plainly thetritocone and the inner one the tetartocone. In 

 Merychyiis this tooth is rendered molariform by the addition of the 

 antero-internal crescent, or deuterocone. The order of succession 

 of the cusps thus appears to be : proto-, trito-, tetarto- and deutero- 

 cones, and is, therefore, different from that which is typical of the 

 premolars, though, as we have already seen, there are variations in 

 the order of development in the different teeth of the premolar 

 series. For example, in Hyracotherium P^ consists of the proto- 

 and tritocones only. 



Some light is thrown upon the homologies of the elements of the 

 characteristic six-lobed last lower milk molar of the artiodactyls 

 by the curious and problematical little genus Nanohyiis. Not that 

 this genus is of any phylogenetic significance for the artiodactyls, 

 and indeed its systematic position is quite uncertain ; nevertheless, 

 it exhibits d* in a very interesting and instructive stage. This tooth 

 is thus described byLeidy: "Its crown presents the usual greater 

 breadth than the succeeding pair of those of the teeth behind as in 

 pachyderms. The crown is trilobate, externally and internally, and 

 this condition probably corresponds with three constituent pairs of 

 lobes, the distinction of which is, for the most part, obliterated by 

 wearing. The median division of the crown is largest and that in 

 advance is the smallest. The abraded summit of the former pre- 

 sents an irregularly transverse quadrate surface of exposed dentine, 

 continuous with a smaller subreniforra tract upon the anterior 

 division. The posterior division of the crown still exhibits the dis- 

 tinction of a transverse pair of lobes, of which the outer one is 

 much the larger." In this tooth the homologies of the elements 

 are obvious ; the median pair of cusps are the proto- and deutero- 

 conids respectively, and the posterior pair the meta- and tetartoconids, 

 while the paraconid and a cusp, as yet not named, internal to it, 

 form the anterior pair. In Nanohyns, therefore, d* differs from the 

 typical artiodactyl tooth merely in the relative development of the 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



cusps, which in the latter are all of nearly equal size. This inter- 

 pretation confirms Riitimeyer's view that ci* in the artiodactyls rep- 

 resents a molar with a pair of cusps added to it in front and that 

 the posterior pair do not correspond to the talon of m^. 



So far as they go, therefore, the facts of palaeontology indicate 

 that in the milk teeth the homologies of the cusps agree with those 

 of the premolars rather than those of the molars. 



The foregoing paper had been nearly completed before I received 

 the valuable and interesting articles of Taeker (No. 12) and Rose 

 (No. 8), in which the problem of the homologies of the molar and 

 premolar cusps is investigated from the embryological standpoint. 

 Taeker has confined his attention to the milk molars and finds that 

 the homologies of the cusps in these teeth agree with those of the 

 permanent premolars, so far as these homologies are determined by 

 position. Taeker had not seen my notes on ihe premolars and 

 attempts to homologize the milk teeth cusps with those of the true 

 molars, but with the result that the paracone is always the first ele- 

 ment to appear. I have shown that this element is really the pro- 

 tocone and consequently the palseontological and embryological 

 results are in exact accord. Further, Taeker shows that the order 

 of succession of the cusps in d^ in the recent artiodactyls is the 

 same as we have found it to be in the Oreodontidce, viz. : proto-, 

 trito-, tetarto- and deuterocones. Again there is an exact correspon- 

 dence in the results as to the characteristic d^ of the artiodactyls, 

 except that Taeker gives the name of paraconid to both of the 

 anterior cusps. Needless to say, this cannot be correct, though it is 

 not Avorth while to coin a special term for the antero-internal cusp. 



Rose's investigation brings out the very unexpected fact that in 

 their embryological development the true molars agree with the pre- 

 molars and the milk teeth, and that in them also the first element 

 to appear is the autero-external cusp, which in the upper molars has 

 hitherto been considered the paracone, but which Rose believes to 

 be the protocone. The evidence offered is not altogether conclusive 

 and is open to a different explanation, but should Rose's view prove 

 to be correct, it would follow that the molar and premolar cusps are 

 really homologous after all, and the nomenclature which I have 

 proposed for the latter would be superfluous, while the names now 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



given to the molar cusps would necessarily be transposed. Space 

 forbids, however, a consideration of this question here. In one 

 important respect Rose's views are altogether irreconcilable with the 

 facts of palaeontology, viz., in supposing that complex mammalian 

 molars are formed by the coalescence of simple teeth. The series 

 of genera which appear in successive horizons, and which we may 

 confidently assume to stand in ancestral relations to one another, 

 display the entire history of the complex premolars and show that 

 new elements are formed by outgrowth from the old and not by 

 coalescence. Such a series as that of the horses, for example, is 

 sufficient to demonstrate this, unless we are prepared to assume that 

 the apparent connection of the different members of the series is 

 entirely illusory. 



Summary. 



1. Assuming the correctness of Osborn's results as to the 

 homologies of the molar cusps, those of the premolars are differ- 

 ently arranged. In the upper pi-emolars the protocone forms the 

 antero-external cusp. 



2. Additions to the protocone are typically made in the following 

 order : (a) the antero-internal cusp — deuterocone ; (b) postero- 

 external cusp — tritocone; (c) postero-internal cusp — tetartocone. 



3. In the lower premolars the protoconid takes the same position 

 as in the lower molars, as does also the paraconid, but the meta- 

 conid forms the external cusp of the talon. The places of the 

 meta- and hypoconids of the molars are taken by two corresponding 

 but not homologous elements, the deutero- and tetartoconids respec- 

 tively. 



4. While there is no reason to doubt the homologies of the pre- 

 molar cusps throughout the series, the order in which they make 

 their appearance is by no means invariable, especially in the ante- 

 rior teeth. 



5. In certain selenodont artiodactyls (e. g., Frocamelus, Oreodon- 

 tidce) the inner crescent of the anterior upper premolars is not 

 formed entirely by the extension of the deuterocone, but by the 

 coalescence of two ridges, one of which extends from the anterior 

 and the other from the posterior margin of the crown. 



6. The homologies of the cusps in the milk molars agree with 

 those of the premolar elements, but appear to be even more irregu- 

 lar as to the order in which those cusps are developed. Thus, in dj 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



in the artiodactyls the order is proto-, trito-, tetarto- and deutero- 

 cones. D^ in the same group has a cusp internal to the paracone, 

 which seldom appears in other types. 



7. So far as the homologies of the cusps in the premolars and 

 milk molars are concerned, the results of palaeontology agree exactly 

 with those of embryology. 



Llst OF Papers Quoted. 



1. Cope, E. D. The Origin of the Fittest. New York, 1887. 



2. Cope, E. D. Tertiary Vertebrata. Washington, 1884. 



3. Dybowsk:, B. Studien iiber die Saugethierziihne. Verb. d. k. 



k. Zool.-botaniscb. Ges. AVien, 1889, p. 3. 



4. Fleischmann, a. Die Grundform der Backzahne bei Saiige- 



thieren. Sitzungsberichte d. kon. preuss. Akad. d. Wis- 

 senschaften zu Berlin, 1891, p. 891. 



5. Mahk, R. Bau und Entwicklung d. Molaren bei Mus und 



Arvicola. Morphologisches Jahrbuch, Bd. XVI, p. 652. 



6. Marsh, O. C. A Xew Order of Extinct Eocene Mammalia. 



Amer. Journ. of Sci. and Arts, 3rd Ser., Vol. XLIII, 

 p. 445. 



7. OsBORN, H. F. The Evolution of the Mammalian Molar to 



and from the Tritubercular Type. Amer. Naturalist, 

 1888, p. 1067. 



8. Rose, G. Ueb. d. Entstehung und Formabanderang d. mensch- 



lichen Molaren. Anatom. Anzeiger, 1892, Xr. 13 and 14. 



9. RiJTiMEYER, L. Beitr. zu einer natiirl. Gesch. d. Hirsche. 



Abb, d. schweiz. pal. Gesellschaft, Bd. X. 



10. ScHLOSSER, M. Die Affen, Lemuren, etc., d. Europ. Tertiiirs. 



11. Scott, W. B. The Osteology of Poebrotherium. Journ. of 



Morphology, Vol. V, p. 1. 



12. Taeker, J. Zur Kenntniss d. Odontogenese bei Ungulaten. 



Dorpat, 1892. 



13. Thomas, O. On the Species of Hyracoidea. Proc. Zool. Soc. 



London, 1892, p. 50. 




1892.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 445 



December 6, 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Fifty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "Notes on Monarda fistulosa." By Thomas Meehan. 

 " The Phenomenon of Fertilization in the Flowers of Monarda 

 fistulosa." By Ida A. Keller. 



The supposed South Chester Valley Hill Fault. — Mr. Theo. D. 

 Eand remarked that in the Final Report of the Second Geological 

 Survey of Pennsylvania, p. 174, the following occurs: "In Mont- 

 gomery County the North Valley Hill belt of quartzite undoubtedly 

 continues beneath the Schuylkill, on the same nearly east course, 

 nearly to the Bucks County line .... runs on six miles into 

 Moreland township. Here it ends, spooning to a point, and then 

 sweeping round the east spoon point of the lime-stone ... it 

 returns westward as the south border of the limestone to the 

 Schuylkill, at Conshohocken ; " and on the same page in a foot note : 



" Here the South Valley Hill begins and runs west into Lancaster 

 County. We should, of course, suppose that this southern barrier of 

 the synclinal limestone valley would be made by the quartzite. 

 But it is made of hydromica slate. Repeated reports have been 

 made during the last fifty years of the discovery of the quartzite 

 ( ' Potsdam sandstone ' ) at various points along the South Valley 

 Hill; and no doubt specimens of quartzite have been picked up, 

 and even thin outcrops of thin quartzite beds among the slates have 

 been seen. But these amount to nothing. They cannot be accepted 

 as expressing with any certainty the reappearance of the North 

 Valley Hill belt on the South Valley Hill side of the limestone. It 

 looks as if the North Valley Hill rocks descend against a great 

 fault, running along the foot of the South Valley Hill, and are 

 there entirely cut off by it, probably thrown by it ( in company 

 with the lower limestone beds, ) high into the air on the Delaware 

 side of the fault. 



" Now it is just at Conshohocken that the Schuylkill River breaks 

 out of the Chester County Limestone Valley to find its way to the 

 sea, viz., in the short interval between the east end of the hydrom- 

 ica belt of the South Valley Hill coming from the west, and the 

 west end of the southern quartzite outcrop coming from the east. 

 What does this mean ? Surely it is an added proof of a great 

 fault ; and of the total difference of the two formations ; and of the 

 futility of all endeavors to discover a southerly synclinal rise of the 

 quartzite along the South Valley Hill." 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



If for Consholiocken in the text, Spring Mill, a mile and a half 

 below Conshohocken, be read, the facts stated agree with these obser- 

 vations, but with the statements in the foot note these observations do 

 not at all accord. 



1, The South Valley Hill does not end at Conshohocken ; on the 

 contrary it extends eastward nearly three miles, as correctly repre- 

 sented on Mr. Hall's map in Report, Vol. 0' and apparently ends in a 

 spoon above the limestone, as in turn does the latter above the Cam- 

 brian sandstone and the Cambrian above the Laurentian. This is about 

 a half mile nearly north of Marble Hall ; the exposures are many 

 and clear, and the ending is in a very conspicuous hill which com- 

 mands an extended view westward. 



2, The southern quartzite does not end at the Schuylkill. As 

 this has been repeatedly stated in the reports of the survey, and as 

 in this last report, the non-existence of the Cambrian south of the 

 limestone, west of the Schuylkill, is reiterated, in spite of proof here- 

 tofore adduced before the Geological and Mineralogical Section of 

 the Academy, he would ask attention to the specimens on the table, 

 from various localities within the area in which the Cambrian sand- 

 stone is recognized, and also from the " thin outcrops " which 

 " amount to nothing " along a line, the direct lineal continuation of 

 the Barren Hill-Spring Mill outcrops, and at distances from the 

 Schuylkill of respectively: — Gulfl}; County Line 2; Stackers 

 2i ; Hare's 2 ij ; Fenimore's 82; Wayne 4 miles southwest of the 

 river. 



This line is directlj'^ south of a line of limestone outcrops, precisely 

 as is that east of the Schuylkill. 



It is true that the exposures are scattered and the stratum narrow, 

 but, except the specimen from northwest of West Chester, there 

 can be no doubt that the rock is in place, and as to its absolute 

 identity, no one who examines the specimens can be in doubt. That 

 the belt is narrowing westwardly is shown by a comparison of the 

 Barren Hill with the Spring ]\Iill outcrop, besides which he believed 

 that the schists of Cream Valley belong to the same horizon, 

 resembling as they do those occurring between the Cambrian sand- 

 stone of the North Valley Hill and the limestone of the Chester 

 Valley. These schists are colored on Dr. Frazer's map in C* as 

 azoic schists, etc., the same color is given the Laurentian north 

 of the Cambrian, though he could not believe that this was Dr. 

 Frazer's intention. In one of the areas thus colored, the great 

 quarries northwest of Pomeroy have been opened, whence much 

 stone has been obtained for recent work in Philadelphia by the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad. This rock is the typical Cambrian sand- 

 stone of the region. There were specimens of it and of the schists 

 on the table. 



The limestone referred to as flanking the Cambrian west of the 

 Schuylkill, and on its north side, occupies the floor of the narrow 

 valley, locally known as Cream Valley, deep, with steep slopes near 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



the Schuylkill, but, from the rising of its floor, almost obliterated 

 beyond Wayne. The limestone is narrow and rarely visible west of 

 West Conshohockeu, but at points distant respectively as follows: 

 Gulf I2 ; Stacker's 2j ; and Pechin's 3 miles from the Schuylkill 

 it appears in place, beyond which occasional sink-holes indicate its 

 underlying. Xorthwest of West Chester it once more appears 

 accompanied by the same schists as form much of the floor of Cream 

 Valley, and Avhich can be followed the whole distance. 



Beyond this, and in almost the same line outcrops are numerous, 

 accompanied by the same rocks until we reach the great outcrops 

 near Doe Run in middle Chester Co., where, again, the existence of 

 the Cambrian south of the limestone is universally admitted. 



He could not, therefore, admit the futility of all endeavors to 

 discover a southerly synclinal rise of the quartzite along the South 

 Valley Hill, but would submit that if in a lineal distance of about 

 thirty miles, section lines be drawn a mile apart, and more than one- 

 half of these show an orderly succession from the outside to the 

 center, while the others show in part the same with the remainder 

 concealed by surface soil, the evidence of a simple synclinal is incon- 

 trovertible. It is only by the assumption that rocks, which anyone 

 who seeks may find, do not exist, that the necessity of a fault 

 becomes apparent. It is true that the sandy mica schists, at times 

 garnetiferous, present a difficulty, but if these be divorced from the 

 South Valley Hill hydromica schists with which they have no con- 

 nection, and be regarded as a part of the Cambrian, and the Lime- 

 stone, also Cambrian, as Walcott's recent discoveries seem to indicate, 

 the objection vanishes. It is certainly true that in Chester County 

 the limestones are both underlaid and overlaid with schists and 

 gneisses, among which, close to, but not in contact with the limestone, 

 so far as he had seen, occurs at numerous localities the characteris- 

 tic Cambrian Sandstone with its micaceous parting, its rhomboidal 

 jointing and its minute and usually disjointed tourmalines. One of 

 the most remarkable facts is the wonderful uniformity of this rock 

 from numerous and widely scattered outcrops over an area of more 

 than fifty miles in length, and ten miles in greatest breadth. 

 Indeed so exactly alike is the rock that it is impossible to determine 

 the locality by inspection of the specimens. The specimens shown 

 to-night verify this. 



December 13. 

 The President, General Isaac J. AVistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Principle of the Conservation of Energy 

 in Biological Evolution, a Reclamation and Critique," by John A. 

 Ryder, was presented for publication. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Mr. Jos. Willcox read a paper entitled " A Theory of the 

 Origin and Development of the Earth and Heavenly Bodies." (No 

 abstract presented for publication.) 



December 20. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



One hundred and nineteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"The Birds of British Columbia and Washington, observed 

 during the Spring and Summer of 1892." By Samuel N. Rhoads. 



" Extra Morainic Drift of the Susquehanna, Lehigh and Delaware 

 Valleys." By G. Frederick Wright. 



Prof. G. F. Wright made a communication, illustrated by lan- 

 tern slides, on the evidence of the existence of paleolithic man in 

 America. (No abstract presented for publication.) 



December 27. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Tsvo hundred and forty-one persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



NOTES ON MONARDA FISTULOSA. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



As stated in the class-books, Monarda fistiilosa is a variable species. 

 A plant in my garden, originally from a shaded woodland in East- 

 ern Pennsylvania, blooms from midsummer continuously till frost. 



The midsummer heads are terminal. At the base of the common 

 peduncle is a pair of leaves "with two axillary buds. These make 

 branches, and the earliest capitulum of the season stands regularly 

 in the fork made by these branches. 



But as these secondary branches grow and form pairs of opposite 

 leaves, only one of the axillary buds in the lower pair pushes into 

 growth. This one grows with so much vigor, that the capitulum is 

 pushed to one side, the common peduncle becomes lateral, and the 

 axillary branch becomes the leading stem. 



At the next node the same behavior prevails, but at the third 

 node both axillary buds develop, the strongest, however, assuming 

 leadership. 



The secondary branches of Monarda fishdosa, though apparently 

 forming a straight stem, are formed of axillary branches, which, 

 pushing aside the terminal common peduncles so as to make them 

 lateral, have taken the position of the leading short or central axis. 

 How this method of forming "extra axillary" inflorescence is 

 brought about, I have explained in another paper.^ 



The flowers are centripetal. It takes several Aveeks from the time 

 the central flowers of the capitulum open before those at the base 

 follow. At this date, October 26th, the flowers begin to open by 

 expanding the lobes of the corolla about sundown. Between 6 p. m. 

 and 9 p. m. twelve had opened. By daylight next morning, in the 

 head I had selected for observation, there were twenty-four. Rest 

 follows, and nothing more is done in this direction till nightfall 

 comes again. 



The manner of opening is exceptionally interesting. It is well to 

 examine a flower a day before it would naturally open. The long 

 hair on the upper lip may be almost termed a beard. By lightly 

 pulling this beard the flower bud is opened. The stamens are then 

 seen lying flat on the lower lip, with the lower linear lobe of this 



'Proceedings of Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1889, p. 58, 

 " On Corydalis fiavula." 



30 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



lip turned inward on itself and pressed down on the anthers as 

 closely as if these latter were in a vise. Ko pollen seems to have 

 been ejected from the anther cells. 



"When the fulness of time arrives and the flower opens, the lips 

 springing apart, the lower lip forms a tube and tightly enfolds the 

 filaments. The expansion in different directions of the lips of the 

 corolla is rapid. In less than one minute there will be a space of 

 half an inch between them at their apices. The straightening of the 

 filaments seems to be the chief motor in this movement. The effect 

 is to draw the filaments wholly from the enfoldment of the lower 

 lobe. The central lobe of the lower lip, which until this time has 

 been pressed down on the anthers as already noted, rises at once 

 when the upper lip has drawn them out, and assumes a vertical posi- 

 tion. This is the last active effort. Rest then follows in all parts 

 of the flower till next evening, when the little lobe takes another 

 start and falls to a direct plane with the other portions of the lip. 



The stamens in the bud are rather longer than the upper lobe of 

 the corolla, while the pistil is rather shorter ; hence when these are 

 enfolded by the upper lip, only the upper portion of the stamens 

 with the anthers, project beyond the apex of the lip. The anther 

 sacs seem to burst simultaneously with the expansion of the lips, 

 and while the whole pistil is enfolded by the incurved portion of 

 the lip. It would seem that no pollen would reach the stigmas at 

 this time. 



At this juncture the picture is extremely beautiful. In all the 

 force of expansion the anthers on the separate filaments continue 

 connected by their lower filaments and become erect, looking, with 

 a little play of the imagination, as if they had formed a blue basket, 

 the pollen representing white flowers, the basket held up by the two 

 arms over the head of an invisible cherub, as seen in some 

 conventional pictures of a child with flowers. It is not till some 

 time afterward that the divided apex of the pistil j^rotrudes. 



At night-fall the next day the stamens begin to wither. The 

 anthers consist of two linear cells, end to end, and so close as to be 

 almost confluent. These two cells do not shrivel simultaneously ; 

 the upper one goes first. As neighboring genera have but one cell, 

 this little matter is of interest, as showing the connecting link. 

 During the withering the viscid matter which caused the adherence 

 of the pollen, seems to dry, and the pollen, probably still function- 

 able, is distributed by the winds. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



But what is the behavior of the pistil during all this time ? It 

 is wholly enfolded by the involute lobe of the lip, though in a few 

 instances one of the style branches may slightly proti'ude at the 

 apex of the lip ; but the full growth and development is the work 

 of another day. After the style has grown sufficiently to carry the 

 branches beyond the apex of the lip, the branches expand, the 

 larger branch curving backward and forming a complete circle. 

 It takes about an hour to complete the circle. 



I have utterly failed to form any conception as to how the flower 

 effects fertilization. At the final drying up of the gelatinous pol- 

 len, when it is then distributed by the wind or insects, it would be 

 possible for some to be carried to flowers with the exposed styles. 

 But this would involve the later flowers in barrenness, which does 

 not seem to be the case. Moreover the condition of the ova 

 indicates that fertilization is effected in some earlier stage of 

 anthesis; and the, so far as my examination now goes, unerring 

 fertility of every flower, would lead one to suspect self pollination 

 in some obscure way. Every one of 150 flowers in a single head 

 was fertile. In grinding up these flowers with finger and thumb 

 to get at the nutlets 183 perfect seeds were found. This showed 

 that in some of the flowers the whole number of four seeds in 

 each had not been perfected. 



The results of my week of observation on this plant were so inter- 

 esting and so puzzling that I was anxious to have the whole subject 

 reviewed independently of any suggestions of my own. I gave some 

 material to Dr. Ida A. Keller, a close observer in similar lines of 

 study with myself, and the results of whose studies will appear 

 in the following paper. 




452 PROCEEDI^'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



THE PHENOMENON OF FERTILIZATION IN THE FLOWERS OF 

 MONARDA FISTULOSA. 



BY IDA A. KELLER, PH. D. 



Although a conspicuous flower and an irregularly shaped corolla 

 are apt to lead one to suspect that these are particular adaptations 

 to aid in securing cross fertilization, yet on the other hand close 

 observations have shown that these characteristics do not always 

 imply the desire to attract insect visitors, Nor is the idea that 

 close fertilization is only resorted to when the arrangements made 

 to favor cross fertilization have failed in their mission, perhaps as 

 generally true as is often supposed. The discovery of fertilization 

 in the bud, recently described by Mr. Meehan in Malva rotundi- 

 folia tends to confirm this view. Here fertilization, as Mr. Meehan 

 has shown, takes place in the bud, and the case is not exactly as 

 described by Prof. IMiiller, who says : " As examples of the count- 

 less ways in which plants revert to self fertilization in default of 

 sufficient insect visits, I may mention the following : — In some 

 dichogamic flowers the stigmas curl back upon the anthers or other 

 parts which still retain some pollen," ^ and as an instance of this he 

 gives the flowers of Malva rotund if alia. But in the flowers of this 

 plant examined by Mr. Meehan, the deposition of pollen on the 

 stigma lobes and the formation of pollen tubes begin before the 

 stigma lobes are curled backward. 



Aside from those cases to which the term cleistogamic is partic- 

 ularly applied : those in which two forms of flowers are produced, one 

 form being small, odorless, inconspicuous and closed, in addition to the 

 ordinary large conspicuous flowers, which are also much less fertile, 

 numerous instances are known where fertilization takes place in the 

 unopened bud. The term cleistogamy might with equal propriety 

 be extended to all cases where fertilization takes place before anthe- 

 sis, even with the entire absence of any dimorphism, and will per- 

 haps in time be so extended. 



An interesting form showing such close fertilization is found in 

 the buds of the ordinary flowers of Monarda fistulosa. The figures 

 of Plate XV represent different stages of the opening of the 

 flower. Beginning with Fig. A, the oldest flower represented, we 



iProf. Herman Miiller. The Fertilization of Flowers. Translated by D'Arcy 

 V. Thompson, p. 591. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1332. 



PL. XV. 



IFI 



KELLER, MONARDA FISTULOSA. 





1892] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



notice that the corolla is about to wilt, the stamens have shriv- 

 -elled up, but the style projects at full length from below the upper 

 lip of the corolla; no pollen was noticeable on the lobes of the 

 stigma, but the lobes are widely separated. The next younger 

 flower, B, shows the corolla still fresh, the style not yet quite 

 exserted, the stamens have wilted, and the stigma lobes are sepa- 

 rated. The next younger flower, C\ has opened and the filaments, 

 which have a fold in the bud, are straightening out ; the style is 

 quite hidden under the upper lip of the corolla. Fig C^ represents 

 the style taken out from the upper lip ; the lobes of the stigma 

 are closed. Fig. D, the next stage, represents a bud just opened, 

 and the stamens beginning to protrude. 



Fig. E^ represents a closed bud, ready to open. E" represents 

 this bud forcibly opened, and E^ shows the anthers united. Fig. F 

 is about the same as E, but here in F" a portion of the corolla is 

 removed in such a manner as to expose the relative position of 

 anthers and style in the closed bud. It was found that the anther 

 cells had discharged their pollen, that the lobes of the style were 

 widely separated, and, in the case represented in the drawing, the 

 longest lobe of the style was actually dipping into the upper cell of 

 one of the anthers. The style, it will be observed, curves over the 

 top of the anthers. Its shape at that time is best seen in Fig. F* 

 which represents the style (upper portion) taken out from the bud 

 F. Fig. F^ represents the same style nmch more highly magnified, 

 with the pollen attached to it. 



I have noticed pollen discharged in small quantity in extremely 

 young buds, but at present it is impossible for me to say just at what 

 period fertilization begins. The stigma lobes are separated at a 

 very early period. One fact which leads me to suspect that fertili- 

 zation begins at this early period is the presence of peculiar 

 masses which strongly resemble the protoplasmic contents of the 

 pollen grains. These I have represented in C', the style of C highly 

 magnified. These masses could not be detected in fresh material, 

 but were invariably found in styles of flowers which had been kept 

 in alcohol. They are inside of the tissue of the style and usually 

 found throughout its entire length, although they are more or less 

 irregularly distributed. To the right of C are three pollen 

 granules, and on comparison with these the yellowish masses in the 

 style seem as a rule smaller, often more or less disorganized, and 

 frequently lumped together. A final decision as to the character 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



and significance of these masses can be arrived at only after a more 

 careful investigation than I have been able to make so far, Thi& 

 is reserved for some future time. 



If it can be taken for granted then that the flowers of Monarda 

 fistulosa present the phenomenon of close fertilization in the bud, 

 the question naturally arises, why should the flowers expand, 

 protrude the stamens, and finally the style? This question must as 

 yet remain unanswered. In case of the Fumariacese, where, with 

 the exception of Hypeconm, according to Hildebrand,- close fertili- 

 zation is unavoidable, the anthers shrivel up as soon as they have 

 deposited their pollen on the stigma, while in the case of Monarda 

 fistulosa ihej become exserted afterthey have deposited some of their 

 pollen on the style, and remain so exserted for a certain period 

 of time. The same is true of the style. This seems particularly 

 strange in view of the fact that the style usually wnlts very shortly 

 after fertilization is accomplished, instead of showing the phenomena 

 of growth and expansion here witnessed. But another observation of 

 Hildebrand's should here be mentioned. In his experiments on 

 Escholtzia californica he noticed that in case of fertilization with 

 the pollen from another flower, the petals soon fell off" and the style 

 quickly wilted, Avhile in case of fertilization with the pollen from 

 the same flower, the petals dropped at a much later period, and 

 the style remained fresh much longer.^ 



The above observations on Monarda fistulosa were made in 

 November ; as the time of blooming of this plant extends over 

 a long period, it is possible that it may vary in its method 

 of fertilization at difltereut times of the year. The species, accord- 

 ing to Gray, is extremely variable. It is represented in addition to the 

 type by well marked forms of var. rubra Gray, var. media Gray, 

 var. mollis Benth. The chief differences being in the flower, inter- 

 esting variations in the methods of fertilization .may be looked for. 



^F. Hildebrand. Uber die Bestanbungs vorichtungen bei den Fumariaceen. 

 Pringsheim's Jahrb. fiir wissen. Bot., VII, Band, p. 455. 



^Uber die Bestanbungs vorichtungen bei den Fumariaceen Pringsh.'s Jahrb, 

 fiir wis. Botanik, Bd. VII, 1869-1870, p. 466. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



THE PKINCIPLE OF THE CONSERVATION OF ENERGY IN BIOLOGICAL 

 EVOLUTION : A RECLAMATION AND CRITIQUE. 



BY JOHN A. RYDER. 



The present papex' owes its existence to the recent discussion of 

 the principle of conservation of energy in relation to biological 

 evolution/ at the Rochester meeting of the American Associa- 

 tion for the Advancement of Science, August, 1892, and to 

 the fact that I had made a similar criticism^ of the views of 

 Weismann and his followers nearly two years earlier, which was 

 published in the same journal. My earlier paper, though not 

 as full and complete a refutation of the erroneous opinions of 

 "Weismann as Dr. Miles' article, anticipated the latter's main line 

 of argument by almost or quite two years. While this is true, 

 it affords me great pleasure to find that others are coming for- 

 ward to criticise, from a scientific standpoint, the very vulnerable 

 and untenable position of the Neo-Darwiuians. While it is a great 

 satisfaction to be able to hail the advent of new supporters of 

 Lamarck's doctrine, it may be worth while to call the attention of 

 students to the original position of Lamarck, and the ease with 

 which it may be made to conform to the requirements of the doctrine 

 of the conservation of energy as bearing upon organic evolution. 

 In the Introduction to the "Animaux sans Yertebres" (Ed. of De- 

 shayes and ]Milne-Edwards, Bruxelles, 1837, Tom. I, p. 14) occur 

 the following statements of principles. 



" First Principle : Every fact or phenomenon of which observa- 

 tion makes us cognizant, is essentially physical, and owes its exist- 

 ence or production to some body, or to the relations between 

 bodies." 



"Second Principle: Every movement or change, every active 

 force, and every effect whatsoever observed in a body, depend 

 necessarily upon mechanical causes regulated by their laws." 



"Third Principle: Every fact or phenomenon observed in a 

 living body is at once a physical factor phenomenon, and a product 

 of organization." 



^Heredity of acquired characters, by Dr. Manly Miles. American Naturalist, 

 XXVI, 1892, pp. 887-900. 



^A physiological hypothesis of heredity and variation. American Naturalist, 

 January, 1890, pp. 87-92. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Lamarck's laws of metamorphosis or the transmutation of forms, 

 I have rendered as follows from the same source : — 



I. " Life, with its peculiar forces, tends to continually augment 

 the volume of all bodies which possess it, and to extend the dimen- 

 sions of their parts, up to the end of the term of life." 



II. " The production of a new organ in an animal body results 

 from a new need which has arisen unexpectedly, and which con- 

 tinues to make itself felt, and which causes new movements to be 

 made to which this need gave origin and maintainance." 



III. " The development of the organs and their strength of 

 action are constantly in proportion to the extent or degree to which 

 they are used." 



IV. "The fourth law asserts the hereditary transmission of char- 

 acters acquired under the operation of laws II and III." 



The first law tacitly recognizes growth in volume, with its con- 

 comitant development of energy, as a factor in evolution, while the 

 second recognizes the fact of physiological or adaptive response. 

 The third supplements the second in a most logical way. 



The third law recognizes the quantitative nature of adaptive 

 response in organisms, and has a very wide range of application. 

 It tacitly recognizes what physiologists must now regard as self- 

 evident, namely, that adaptation, so far as that process involves the 

 expenditure of energy, must go on in conformity with the principle 

 of the conservation of energy, a principle which had not been 

 developed as a scientific conception in Lamarck's time. 



The " first and second principles," cited above, have some remark- 

 able recent parallels. Lamarck here recognizes the laws of motion, 

 but their connection with the development of energy necessarily 

 escaped him. It is, nevertheless, instructive to cite here Prof. 

 Barker's definition of energy, as given in his recent treatise; 

 "Physics." After some preliminary discussion, Prof. Barker says : — 

 " Energy may be provisionally defined, therefore, as a condition of 

 matter in virtue of which any definite portion of it may be made 

 to eftect changes in other definite portions." Now these changes 

 referred to by Prof. Barker have to take place through the develop- 

 ment of motion, according to mechanical laws. In Lamarck's 

 " third principle," the logical step is taken which leads from the 

 "not living" to the " living " forms of the exhibition of energy. 

 This appreciation, by Lamarck, of the identity of the underlying 

 causes of the physical phenomena of change, and consequently of 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



motion, and tlie development of energy in living and dead matter, 

 is most remarkable, ami indicates that he must have had some sort 

 of inkling or intimation that the energies of living things and dead 

 things were somehow, and in some sense, to be regarded as kindred 

 ■or mutually convertible, as implied by the modern doctrine of the 

 conservation of foi'ce, through a series of intervening anabolic and 

 katabolic steps, as established by modern physiology. Energy is 

 thus stored or rendered potential in form in living bodies by a 

 series of complex chemical processes, in consequence of which 

 motion, or the liberation of energy as heat, nervous energy, nmscu- 

 lar motion, is rendered possible. 



Lamarck's conceptions were, however, much restricted in applica- 

 tion in his own day. They were evidently most clear to him in 

 animal forms; where motions were obvious to the unaided eye. In 

 the study of the microscopic elements, or cells of animals, little had 

 been done in his time. In fact the science of histology had still to 

 be developed, while modern animal and vegetable physiology were 

 still farther removed from him in the futui'e. We can, therefore, 

 be only the more surprised that the prophetic intuitions of Lamarck 

 should have been as far-reaching as they have since proved to be. 

 If, as has been intimated above, we were to grant him the perception 

 of the great principle of the conservation of energy as viewed at the 

 pi'esent time, his principles would require but slight modification to 

 conform perfectly to its requirements, as a working hypothesis in the 

 study of the causation of variations. 



We are told by the Weismannians, or Neo-Darwinians, that 

 acquired characters, or such as have been developed thi'ough use — 

 exercise of function — cannot be inherited. Since all characters 

 whatever could be acquired only through disturbance of the balance 

 or equilibrium of the functions and metabolism during growth, and 

 consequently the relative proportions and normal functional activi- 

 ties of the parts of organisms, the statement that the effects of use 

 and disuse cannot be inherited, will hardly need refutation at this 

 stage of my argument. 



This leads us at once to the essence of the question, namely : 

 Since all characters had to be acquired, it will naturally be asked, 

 " How, then, from a mechanical or physical point of view, were 

 they acquired?" 



Weissmann and his followers formulate an hypothesis of the contin- 

 uity and variability of an immortal isolated germ-plasm, by means 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



of which it is believed that new characters will arise in the course 

 of germ-development, the favorable or useful variants of which in 

 the completely developed organisms, will be preserved by natural 

 selection. The further assumption is also made that no character 

 acquired by the soma, or body of the parent, through use, disuse or 

 mutilation of its parts, can be transmitted to its offspring. The 

 antagonism of Weismann and Lamarck are thus seen to be most 

 perfect. 



Weismann, however, has latterly been obliged to admit that it 

 was " absurd to say that an immortal substance can be converted 

 into a mortal substance," as pointed out by Prof. Vines. He has 

 also been compelled, as a consequence, to retreat from his position 

 declaring the immortal molecular stability of germ-plasm. He 

 says: "An immortal, unalterable living substance does not exist, but 

 only immortal forms of activity as organized matter." Upon which 

 Prof. Miles comments as follows: — "The material continuity of 

 the germ plasma is therefore discarded and replaced with the con- 

 ception of a mode of motion, manifest in matter that is continually 

 undergoing metabolic changes." 



Weismann is therefore logically driven to entirely iibandon his 

 original position. Dr. Miles' answer to Weismann's position 

 regarding mutilations is the only sound argument I have met with 

 in this connection. It is: — "The failure of the effects of injuries 

 or mutilations to make their appearance in the offspring, cannot be 

 admitted as evidence to prove the non-inheritance of acquired char- 

 acters, as the physiological activities of the system [organization of 

 the species] that are required to produce the morphological peculiar- 

 ities have not been established, and there can be no tendency of the 

 organism to reproduce them." 



It is now proposed to show that Weismann's hypothesis is ulti- 

 mately forced to assume, or take for granted, the modernized 

 Lamarckian theory of the causes of variation, without acknowledg- 

 ing the appropriation. This is especially true, since he admits the 

 existence of "immortal forms of the activity of organized matter," 

 while rejecting the immortal substance. 



Since no mass of matter, living or dead, can change its own con- 

 figuration, except through the motion of some of its own parts, 

 however small, among themselves, it follows that such a change of 

 configuration signifies the expenditure of energy. 




1892.] >^ATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



If any body or mass of matter, living or dead, be placed any wliere 

 in space in order that its configuration may be changed, the neces- 

 sary energy and consequent motion competent to do so must be 

 developed : — 



(a.) By a physical change in some part of the substance of the 

 mass itself, or, 



(b.) The necessary energy competent to change the configuration 

 of the mass must be developed in material bodies, external to the 

 mass itself, or, 



(c.) Part of the energy necessary to produce a change in the con- 

 figuration of the mass must be developed by a physical change in a 

 portion of the substance of the mass itself, in conjunction or simul- 

 taneously with an energy, or energies, developed by a mass or body, 

 masses or bodies, external to itself. These three are the only possi- 

 ble conditions. 



But, since all masses, living or dead, at the earth's surface are 

 known to be subject to the action of forces developed within them- 

 selves, as well as forces developed external to themselves, the third 

 condition (c) holds for all masses living or dead. 



Therefore the conclusion is that no mass at the earth's surface, 

 either living or dead, can by any thinkable possibility change its 

 own configuration, except under the condition that a combination of 

 internally and externally developed forces, agencies or energies 

 shall cooperate to that end. In other words, there can be no change 

 of configuration of a body without the expenditure or dissipation 

 of energy. 



Now, for the application of these known principles. 



Since variations of configuration, no matter whether they affect 

 the adult organism or its early stages, imply variations in the oper- 

 ation of internally and externally developed forces or energies 

 competent to produce such changes of configuration, it follows that 

 all changes in the forms of organisms involve the expenditure of 

 energy. In other words, all variations in the configuration of 

 organisms must be dynamically caused. This is true for the follow- 

 ing reasons : No variation in the configuration, either transient or 

 permanent (and therefore, inheritable) of a living body, can be pro- 

 duced without the cooperation of internally developed motions, 

 consequently, of energies, with externally developed energies or 

 such as are derived from the external world. Whether these coop- 

 erating energies are measurable or not, it is simply impossible for 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



them not to so cooperate, since life is characterized by a continuous 

 display of energy. Life is continuous in the material succession 

 and derivation of its individuals, and thus also continuous as to its 

 dynamical or metabolic jirocesses, or the display of its energies. It 

 is safe to say that the continuity of vital energy or the energy of 

 life, is a far more potent agency in the evolution of organic forms, 

 than the continuity and variability of germ plasm, assumed by 

 Weismann. Vital energy and cosmical energy are coexistent and 

 continuously cooj^erative. Weismann at last apprehends this. 



Therefore, whenever a Weismannian speaks of variations, how- 

 ever he may assume that they are caused, he is forced to tacitly 

 imply that energy is consumed or dissipated in their production, 

 and he is therefore also compelled to tacitly admit the validity of 

 the Lamarckian method of reasoning. 



If he tries to escape the snare which has been set for him, as 

 above, he is placed in a still worse and even more compromising 

 position, viz. : the denial of the validity of the universal principle of 

 the conservation of enei'gy. 



No character whatever, of any living thing, however trivial, 

 can be acquired without the expenditure of energy and the develop- 

 ment of motion in some form ; therefore, all characters are so 

 acquired. Consequently, natural selection can choose only from 

 amongst characters such as have been thus dynamically produced, 

 according to Lamarck's original thesis, modified so as to bring it 

 into harmony with the requirements of modern science, or the doc- 

 trine of the conservation of enei'gy. 



The only way in which a Weismannian, or Neo-Darwinian 

 can now evade the rigorous fatality of the preceding reasoning, is to 

 declare that natural selection includes in the scope of its operations 

 the production of variations. But he is forbidden, and for sound 

 reasons, to do this by the express denial of any such implication or 

 aj^plication of natural selection, by the great expounder of that 

 principle, Darwin himself. 



DisingenuoLisness and subterfuge on the part of Weismannians, 

 have hitherto helped to keep the foregoing disagreeable statement of 

 the facts in the background, but the primary fallacy of the Weis- 

 mannians, or Neo-Darwinians, has now been exposed, and shown to 

 be a sort of biological scare-crow that we may confidently leave to 

 wind, weather and neglect. The mischief that Weismann has done 

 in leading gullible people astray, by most ingeniously throwing 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



sand into their mental eyes, has not been successfully paralleled in 

 recent times. Weismann's views, as shown above, carry with them 

 the implication of the denial of the validity, within the pale of 

 biology, of the doctrine of the conservation of energy. In that 

 they do this, they must be characterized as unscientific, since they 

 are not in harmony with the spirit of modern science. 



So great is the importance of the recognition of the principle of 

 the conservation of energy in the evolution of organic forms, that 

 it is strange that it has not been hitherto declared that it is the very 

 foundation upon which all further progress in the investigation of 

 biological evolution must proceed. 



How this principle is to be applied and extended in biological 

 research, in an experimental way in the future, it is obviously not 

 now possible to indicate in detail, but that such was the method 

 according to which Nature proceeded to evolve new forms, seems to 

 be proven by the fact that organic evolution by superposition has 

 occurred, as is shown by countless facts. If characters have been 

 superposed and intensified in their expression, as is beautifully shown 

 by the evolution of such structures as the nervous system and foetal 

 membranes, it seems that the interacting energies involved in bring- 

 ing this about have operated cumulatively. That is, that every 

 gain of surface for better respiration and nutrition, and combina- 

 tions of both, set the processes of the development of physiological 

 energy going at a greater rate of efficiency, which would accelerate 

 the process of evolution and its morphological possibilities. The 

 rates at which these energies, internally and externally developed, 

 shall interact, cannot be determined by natural selection, but by 

 growth and the motion of parts and particles dependent upon it. 



Weismann nowhere in his prolix and tedious essays, except in 

 one of the very latest answers to his critics, steps aside to con- 

 sider energy in relation to the problems he is discussing. He is 

 simply oblivious of the existence of such a thing as energy as affect- 

 ing the question before him. His facts may or may not have the 

 value he assigns them, his reason often beingof the shallowest and most 

 commonplace texture, as for example, when he says : " The object 

 of this process (sexual reproduction) is to create those individual 

 differences which form the material out of which natural selection 

 produces new species." In this case he has mistaken an effect for a 

 cause, and has assigned as the object of sexuality an end or final 

 cause upon Avhich neither he nor any other man can legitimately 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



dogmatize. This absurd view amounts to the same thing as assert- 

 ing that organisms have the power to develop physiological pro- 

 cesses with conscious foresight, so as to avoid harm coming to their 

 race ! This is on a par with Balfour's reasoning with resjiectto the 

 cause or reason of the existence of the polar bodies, namely, as a 

 preventive of parthenogenesis ! 



The criticisms of E. B. Poulton, in a foot-note on p. 425 of 

 Weismann's Essays, (Eng. Trans.) are similar to those offered long 

 ago by Dr. C. S. Tomes. Poulton, like his predecessor, criticises 

 my views on the mechanical genesis of tooth-forms, without know- 

 ing what he is talking about, evidently not having read my paper. 

 He says : " It may be reasonably objected that the most elementary 

 facts concerning the development of teeth, prove that their shapes 

 cannot be altered during the life-time of the individual, except by 

 being worn away." " The shape is predetermined before the tooth 

 has cut the gum." " Hence the Neo-Lamarckian school assumes 

 not the transmission of acquired characters, but the transmission 

 of characters which the parent is unable to acquire!" Anything 

 more unfair or indiscriminating than the above could not be writ- 

 ten. I am charged with making statements I never made, and 

 never had the slightest intention of making. As I am the origina- 

 tor of the doctrine of the mechanical genesis of tooth-forms, I will 

 here say in reply that Poulton and Tomes cannot cUsprove that the 

 forms of the crowns of teeth of mammals are not altered in shape 

 in other loays than by wear, or by means of stresses and consequent 

 permanent strains. If, as I have shown in my original essay, (Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1878,) crystalline bodies can be permanently 

 bent and strained by persistent stresses, what proof is there to the 

 effect that even hard enamel caps cannot be so altered in the life- 

 time of the adult ? Moreover, I have shown that all the changes of 

 the crown-forms of the molars of the long series of Artiodactyls, have 

 conformed Avith mechanical exactitude to the requirements of the 

 various degrees of lateral motion of the jaws, and that where these 

 lateral motions were absent, lateral crown-modifications were also 

 absent. In other words, the degree of lateral modification is 

 correlated with the degree of lateral motion, or sweep of the jaws. 

 Later evidence has tended to show that the development of new 

 cusps and roots, in certain cases, takes place at points of maximum 

 wear in certain teeth in the domestic cat, as pointed out to me by 

 my colleague. Prof. Jayne. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



This show of logical acumen by my Anglican critic, is useless ; 

 the facts are so overwhelmingly against him, as respects the evidence 

 for a mechanical theory of the evolution of the teeth, that there is no 

 other way in which they can be coordinated. This evidence is 

 cumulative in amount and character, and is also an illustration of 

 the cumulative effect of the secular display of a portion of the 

 energy dissipated by a series of organisms, straining even their 

 hard parts into new configurations which have became hereditary, 

 because the soft parts underlying them have been correspondingly 

 modified and moulded by physiologically developed stresses, which 

 have become, so to speak, permanently expressed as physiological 

 strains.' As yet there is no proof of the slightest scientific value, 

 that dynamically acquired and thus cumulatively developed charac- 

 ters cannot be inherited, despite all the evidence, mostly worthless, 

 accumulated by Weismann, Poulton and others. For the unfair 

 manner in which the term " acquired character " is used in all sorts of 

 senses, restrictions and limitations by Weismann himself, see a 

 criticism* by C. C. Nutting. 



In point of fact, every time a new character appears it is self- 

 evident that energy must be expended in order that the necessary 

 movement of parts may be effected ; in order that a new form of 

 the organism, or of some part of it, may be assumed. So far from 

 its being a fact that dynamically acquired characters cannot be inher- 

 ited, it is an irrefragable fact that dynamically developed characters 

 are the only ones that can be inherited. How this is accomplished 

 is a matter for further research. 



If refuge is sought in a germ-plasm in which capacities for varia- 

 tion are assumed to inhere, it must be assumed that it operates 

 according to a law peculiar to itself, and in defiance of all known 

 external and physical influences, such as modify or control the 

 movements of the constituent particles and masses of all other 

 bodies. Heredity seems to inhere a la Weismann in the germ 

 plasm, something after the manner of the inherence of " horologity," 

 or time-keeping properties in a clock, as long ago suggested by Prof. 

 Huxley, when he was ex2:)0sing the untenable position of the advo- 

 cates of " vitality," as a kind of energy with no aflBliations to other 

 kinds. 



* The words " stress " and " strain " are here used by me in the same sense as 

 by engineers and physicists. 



^American Naturalist, XXVI, 1892, p. 1009. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Prof. Morse's position that the culture experimeuts of Dr. 

 Dallinger in training monads to withstand gradually increased tem- 

 perature, until endurance of 158°F. was reached, was an illustration 

 of natural selection inire and simple, is also an illustration of the 

 oversight by Neo-Darwinians of the essential energy-factor of the 

 problem. 



Since the monad cultures were kept continuously at a gradually 

 rising temperature, there must have been continuous and successive 

 responses in the mechanisms of the protoplasm of the successive 

 generations to the new conditions, else adaptations could not be 

 effected. The failure to apprehend the fact of the continuity of 

 adaptive processes, while the whole burden is thrown upon the dis- 

 continuous selective process, is most extraordinary. If none of the 

 monads involved in the earlier stages of the experiment, had under- 

 gone certain internal changes owing to the persistence of the new 

 energy-conditions of heat, none would have been modified so as to 

 be selected as the progenitors of a series of generations, capable of 

 sustaining even greater extremes of temperature. 



The adaptive process in living forms where energy always is con- 

 tinuously involved, may be fittingly compared to the idea of con- 

 tinuous number, as understood in the calculus, in contrast to 

 discontinuous or integral number in ordinary arithmetic, and 

 typical of the discontinuous process of the selection of integers, or 

 individuals of a race by means of natural selection. This energy- 

 factor cannot be so conveniently ignored, as it is every time the 

 Neo-Darwinians assert that the development of new characters is 

 entirely due to natural selection. 



In the paper by the writer, published in 1890, the idea was 

 advanced that heredity itself must be ultimately interpreted in con- 

 sonance with the doctrine of the conservation of energy. It was 

 then stated that a theory of heredity something like the following 

 would have to be assumed : — 



" In the first place, the supposition of a germ-plasma distinct from 

 the plasma of the parent-body is a needless interjection into the 

 machinery of hypothesis of biological evolution. It does not 

 make the matter one whit clearer to suppose that the germ-plasma 

 is necessary, than to suppose that all of the living plasvia of any and 

 every distinct sjiecies is an idiopkmn, or is specifie in so far as that 

 species is concerned. If we now suppose, as a consequence of the 

 action of the principle of physiological division of labor, first pro- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



pounded by H. Milne-Edwards, that all the plasma, or the whole of 

 the specific protopkmn or idioplasm of the organism, becomes physio- 

 logically differentiated and incapable of undergoing embryonic develop- 

 ment, except that of the germ-cells or germinal plasma, ^^ long ago 

 urged by Professor Huxley, we get the same result as that reached 

 by Weismann without involving ourselves in the consequences 

 which beset his hypothesis. This germinal matter is the oiihj func- 

 tionless and idle pkmna in the parent body, capable of growing and 

 consequently of multiplying its substance within the parental 

 organism at the expense of the surplus metabolism of the latter as 

 a whole. Moreover, the germinal cells are alone capable of detach- 

 ing themselves, or being detached, from the parental organism as 

 products of over-nutrition, which have become useless to the life of 

 the parent, as assumed in my preliminary paper "On the origin 

 and meaning of sex." This recognizes the apparent fact of the 

 setting aside or isolation of the germ-plasma, but does not make 

 that fact the cause of the stability of species through the continuity 

 of processes of growth, and the assumed but not empirically demon- 

 strated isolation of such germ-plasma. My interpretation is in 

 absolute accord with the requirements of the princij)les of modern 

 physiology, while the hypothesis of Weismann and his followers is 

 in conflict with those principles, and ultimately, as a necessary conse- 

 quence, with the still more comprehensive principle of the conserva- 

 tion of energy. Modern physiology, as well as the doctrine of the 

 conservation of energy, positively forbids us to interpose any bar- 

 rier between the plasma of the parent-body and that of the germ cells, 

 as is done by the promulgators of the hypothesis of the continuity 

 and isolation of the germ-plasma. To do so robs us of the possibil- 

 ity of appealing to the agency of the workings of metabolism as the 

 efficient cause of the modification of the germinal matter. Since 

 metabolism, and all that it implies, is the only agent to which, 

 according to modern physiology, we can appeal, without interjecting 

 gemmules, plastidules, pangens or some other accessory and needless 

 agency into living organisms, as the efficient agents in the transmis- 

 sion of hereditary traits, we are restricted in our choice to metabol- 

 ism alone. In this way only is it possible to got rid of a deas ex 

 machina in the form of an idioplasm in the sense first implied by 

 Niigeli, or of the gemmules of Darwin and Brooks, the plastidules 

 of Haeckel, the pangens of De Vries, or the physiological units of 

 H. Spencer. 



31 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



" The preceding paragraph contains, in essence, my own hypoth- 

 esis according to which all the facts of hereditary transmission and 

 variation may be coordinated without losing or rendering unavailable 

 the advantages which may be derived from the supposition that 

 acquired characters may be transmitted. 



" In my view metabolism itself becomes the means of transmit- 

 ting the changes in the adult organism, due to the complex interac- 

 tion between it and its surroundings to the idle, functionless and 

 passive germ-cells, because it is a demonstrable fact that these are 

 the only cells in a multicellular organism which have no work to 

 perform which is of direct benefit to the individual life of that 

 organism, unless it may be to take up the surplus nutriment not 

 used by the metabolism of the parent-body in the secular exhibition 

 of the sum total of its physiological energies, in the struggle for 

 existence." 



According to my view the idioplasmic, or specific molecular 

 character of the plasma of the germ-cells, in common with that of 

 the protoplasm of the whole body (which latter always tends to 

 repair injuries, or even, in lower forms, replace lost parts,) tends, in 

 virtue of its dynamically acquired specific traits, to repeat the 

 organization of its parent type, in the course of its development, 

 not because it is something different from the protoplasm of the cells 

 of the rest of the body, but because it is wholly unspecialized and 

 without other physiological differentiation. 



The automatic processes of heredity are an accumulated result of 

 the continuous interaction of internally and externally developed 

 energies during phylogeny. The exact manner in which these have 

 been registered and preserved in germinal cells, or in parts of organ- 

 isms which have the power to reproduce the whole organism, we 

 cannot yet hope to explain, in that protoplasm itself is a body of 

 such complexity and capability of transformation, that nothing else 

 approaches it, as is proved by the chemistry of its bye-products, the 

 carbon compounds. 



We can only suggest that " molecular impressions experienced in 

 the course of variations in the modes of manifestation of, or disturb- 

 ances of the balance of the metabolism of the parent-body are sup- 

 posed upon this view to be transmitted as molecular tendencies to the 

 idle or passive plasma of the germ-cells. Variations in the molecu- 

 lar constitution and tendencies of the germinal matter are supposed 

 to thus arise at different times in the same parent, and that, conse- 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



quently, successive germs may be thus differently impressed. In 

 this way also the molecular tendencies of the plasma of the germ- 

 cells of different individuals may be also modified simultaneously or 

 successively through the effect of enforced changes in the metabo- 

 lism of multitudes of contemporaneous adult individuals of the same 

 species, thus leading to a tendency toward concurrent or simulta- 

 neous variation of offspring in the same or a similar direction. 



" It will be seen that this is the only hypothesis which renders the 

 possibility of concurrent or simultaneous variation within the limits 

 of a species either conceivable or intelligible. It also lends itself to 

 an intelligible comprehension of the phenomena of the correlation 

 of the growth of parts, and it is also the only view which holds out 

 any promise of ccJordination with the highly ingenious and suggest- 

 ive hypothesis of Prof Wilhelm Roux.'" 



If we now remember that, as development advances, the influence 

 of external disturbing agencies diminishes, so that it is far easier to 

 produce monstrosities or modifications at an early period of develop- 

 ment than at a later one, we see that the early steps of ontogenetic 

 processes are far more easily modifiable than the later ones, owing 

 to variations or disturbances of the externally and internally 

 cooperative energies manifested during growth. We thus add an 

 important qualifying statem'ent to what has preceded, and one that 

 confirms the preceding in a remarkable way, since it serves to prove 

 that the less specialized states of ontogeny are more sensitive to dis- 

 turbing influences, than the later and more specialized ones. 



" It will be at once perceived that my hypothesis of the acquisi- 

 tion of variations and their transmission is the simplest that has 

 yet been offered. It interjects nothing hypothetical into our concep- 

 tion of the physical substratum of living organisms, except the 

 necessarily unknown and unknowable constitution of the molecular 

 factors of metabolism, and thus brought into harmony with the all- 

 inclusive doctrine of the conservation of energy." 



Prof. Miles closes his article as follows : — " Questions like these 

 must be answered, to furnish satisfactory explanation of biological 

 activities, and theories of nutrition and heredity in which energy is 

 not recognized as one of the prime factors in every vital process 

 should be received with caution, and the fallacious arguments based 

 upon them estimated at their real value." 



^Der Kampf der Theile im Organismus. 8vo., pp. VII, 244, Leipzig, 1891. 




468 PROCEEDIKGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Following these observations, my own remarks at the close of my 

 paper of 1890 may be appropriately quoted : — 



" In that the doctrine of the isolation of the germ-plasma is in irre- 

 concilable conflict with the great cardinal principle upon which the 

 whole fabric of modern physiological science rears its stately propor- 

 tions, namely with the general theory of metabolism, and, conse- 

 quently, with the still more imposing and universal principle of the 

 conservation of energy, we therefore realize what a colossal fabric 

 of speculative rubbish must be consigned to the limbo of untenable 

 and forgotten hypotheses, in what is represented by the misguided 

 labors of the advocates of the existence of an unalterable germ- 

 plasma." 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



EXTKA-MORAINIC DRIFT IN THE SUSQUEHANNA, LEHIGH AND 

 DELAWARE VALLEYS. 



BY G. FREDERICK WRIGHT. 



In the autumn of 1880, the late Professor Henry Carvill Lewis 

 and myself began the exploration of what we supposed was the 

 boundary of direct glacial action in Eastern Pennsylvania. The 

 work of field exploration was substantially completed in 1881. Our 

 report constitutes volume Z in the series published by the 2d 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, and appeared in 1884. 



After accepting with little question the delineation of the terminal 

 moraine from the New Jersey report for that State, we began work 

 in IS^orthampton County, Pa., and soon succeeded in tracing a well 

 marked moraine across the county from near Belvidere, in New 

 Jersey, to the vicinity of Offset IMountain, in the Kittatinny Range, 

 a few miles northeast of the Wind Gap. At that time our attention 

 was not sufficiently directed to the more dispersed erratics and thin- 

 ner glacial deposits which usually extend in advance of the moraine, 

 and which, subsequently, we came to recognize as the " fringe." The 

 facts concerning the " fringe " came prominently to light in connec- 

 tion with my own further investigations in the western part of 

 Pennsylvania, and in my own investigation in the States far- 

 ther west. In my reports on that region I soon ceased to give 

 special attention to moraines, and confined attention to the border 

 of the fringe, and in my map in the volume " The Ice Age in 

 North America," the legend indicating the terminal moraine across 

 Pennsylvania, gives place in the States further west to one marking 

 the southern limit of the ice sheet. 



In view of these facts it is significant that in his report (p. 201), 

 Professor Lewis uses this language : " It is possible that traces of 

 this fringe might be detected in Eastern Pennsylvania and in New 

 Jersey. In fact, occasional transported boulders do occur upon 

 several hilltops, just in front of the moraine, in the vicinity of the 

 Susquehanna and Delaware rivers, and in New Jersey, which I find 

 it difficult to explain on any theory of a flood, and which may be 

 of like origin with the fringe as developed farther west. Facts 

 observed by other geologists in more western States, and published 

 since this report was written, confirm my impression that this fringe 

 is destined to play an important part in glacial geology." 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892" 



To this I have added, in my volume on the Ice Age referred to, 

 the statement that in driving over the country, between New 

 Brunswick and Metuchen, N. J., in company with Professor Cook,. 

 I had observed what I considered unmistakable evidence of this 

 fringe a few miles south of the well defined moraine. (Ice Age, 

 p. 136.) 



So much it is proper to say to indicate the reasons urging me to 

 re-examine the field where Professor Lewis and I began work on the 

 glacial boundary. This is the more important since Professor 

 Lewis's death has left unpublished a large amount of material in 

 the hands of his executors, which is at present inaccessible. This 

 consists of notes collected upon the terraces of the Atlantic rivers, 

 which he expected soon to publish, and to which he makes occa- 

 sional reference in Vol. Z, as discussing more fully many topics 

 barely alluded to in that report. Of his views I had much knowl- 

 edge, from our constant association in the field. For some 

 time past reports of phenomena, .seemingly inconsistent with the 

 inter])retation which we had put upon the facts, have been gaining 

 currency, but I have not dared to venture any criticism until a 

 personal re-examination of the field had been made. This I have 

 had the opportunity of doing during the past season, and I herewith 

 submit the results for consideration and criticism. 



The principal statements which had perplexed me were : — 



1st, That of Mr. McGee (Am. Jour. Sci., vol. 135, pp. 377, 378, 

 381), that from Harrisburg to the terminal moraine at Berwick there 

 are evidences of a submergence during glacial times, which allowed 

 still water deposits to accumulate 500 feet above the present river 

 level. 



2d, That of Professor Salisbury, that glaciated stones had been 

 found by him near Sunbury, 600 feet above the river. ( Adduced 

 by President Chamberlin, Bui. Geol. Soc, vol. I, p. 473. Reitera- 

 ted by Salisbury, vol. 3, p. 180.) 



3d, Statements of Mr. McGee that there is evidence of a land sub- 

 mergence in the Delaware Valley of at least 400 feet in the vicinity 

 of the terminal moraine. The evidence of this is principally drawn 

 from a section of the valley five miles below Belvidere. (Am. 

 Jour. Sci., vol. 135, p. 379.) 



4th, Statements by Professor Salisbury, seeming to imply that evi- 

 dences of ice occupation are found in New Jersey at High Bridge, 

 Pattenburg and Monmouth Junction, and in Pennsylvania at Falls^ 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



ingtou, a few miles Avest of Trenton, and Bridgeport, in the valley of 

 the Schuylkill, a few miles west of Philadelphia. 



The principal conclusions arrived at by Professor Salisbury are 

 involved in the following extracts. After having minutely described 

 the deposits at Pattenburg, High Bridge, Oxford Church and Little 

 York, N, J., and the excessive oxidation and disintegration which 

 his supposed extra-morainic drift has suffered at these places; and 

 having expressed the opinion that the phenomena most certainly 

 indicate a glacial period several times older than that with Avhich 

 the terminal moraine is connected, he goes on to say : 



"The phenomena here described as indicating a drift-sheet older 

 than that represented by the moraine and the drift north of it, are 

 not confined to Hunterdon and Morris counties. The extent of 

 the territory over which these phenomena occur is not known, 

 though many facts concerning its extension are already in the pos- 

 session of the Survey. The railway cuts southeast of New Bruns- 

 wick afford similar evidence in this part of the State. Glacial- 

 striated boulders have also been found between Monmouth Junction 

 and Deans, along the line of the Pennsylvania railway, and at 

 Kingston on the Millstone River, three miles northeast of Prince- 

 ton, though they are by no means common m either place. 



" In Pennsylvania there are drift deposits well south of the moraine 

 in similar situations. Glaciated boulders, imbedded in clay which 

 presents the general aspect of till, have been found near South 

 Bethlehem, several hundred feet above the Lehigh River, and at 

 various other points south of the Lehigh, at distances from the 

 moraine comparable to those at which the corresponding formation 

 in New Jersey occurs. Drift closely resembling till, and containing 

 striated rock material, occurs on the west side of the Delaware, 

 near Fallsington, three or four miles southwest of Trenton, and, with 

 Mr. C. E. Peet, the writer found similar deposits at Bridgeport, Pa., 

 opposite Norristown, still further south. Bridgeport is the southern- 

 most point at which glacially-striated material has been seen by the 

 writer. Glaciated boulderets were here taken from clay of such 

 character that, were the locality known to have been covered by ice, 

 its reference to till would be fully warranted. Bridgeport is about 

 fifty miles south of the terminal moraine. 



" It is not intended to convey the impression that every region 

 where glaciated stone maybe found was necessarily once covered by 

 glacier ice. The possibility of transportation of glaciated material 

 beyond the edge of the ice l)y water, is distinctly recognized. But it 

 is not believed that water alone, or water-bearing glacially-derived 

 bergs, could produce all the results which are here recorded. 

 Neither the structure of the extra-morainic drift, nor its physical 

 make-up, nor its geographic or topographic distribution, is consistent 

 with such an hypothesis. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



"At sev^eral points in Xew Jersey, south of all the localities thus 

 far mentioned within the State, there are topographic features which 

 are easy of explanation if ice once extended to the region where 

 they occur, but which seem to be very difficult of explanation on 

 any other hypothesis. The features here referred to characterize 

 the region from Washington, Middlesex county, southwest to Fresh 

 Ponds and beyond, and also the region east of Trenton, from White 

 Horse to Hamilton Square. The topography in these regions is 

 very much like that of a subdued terminal moraine. 



"The determination of the southern limit of ice action duringthe 

 earlier glaciation is likely to be a matter of some difficulty. In its 

 southern extension the ice reached the region of the ' yellow-gravel ' 

 formation." (An. Rep. of State Geologist for the vear 1891, pp. 106, 

 107.) 



It is fair to say that Professor Salisbury informs me that he does 

 not now think the ice of " the first glacial period extended farther 

 south than High Bridge and Pattenburg," and would direct special 

 attention to the paragraph quoted, in which he speaks of the possibility 

 of transportation of glacial material by water. But as we have to 

 deal with the report as it stands, it is necessary to call attention to 

 its natural interpretation as it falls into the hands of the ordinary 

 reader, in order to correct the errors into which he vvould be unwit- 

 tingly led. Such a reader must be informed that when Professor 

 Salisbury speaks of extra-morainic drift extending to the "yellow- 

 gravel" (in quotation 'marks), he does not mean the yellow gravel 

 as it is marked upon the latest map of the New Jersey Survey, but 

 some yellow gravel which he has discovered a considerable distance 

 farther north. In his paper before the Geological Society, however, 

 he uses language which cannot so easily be explained, saying that 

 boulder clay similar to that at High Bridge and Pattenburg, and 

 whose existence must be explained in the same way, is found south 

 of Pattenburg to a distance fully twenty miles south of the moraine. 

 In the same paper he also speaks of a locality "fifteen miles south- 

 west of New Brunswick," where phenomena are exhibited which 

 present evidences of direct glacial action. 



In the light of my investigations this summer, I think I am able 

 to detect the cause of the conflicting statements of facts by these 

 eminent observers, and to eliminate some very serious errors of inter- 

 pretation which one or other of them has brought into the dis- 

 cu;-iion. 



As I had surmised, and repeatedly urged in publications upon the 

 subject, the cause of the error is to be traced to the undue 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



emphasis which was at first ])laced upon the terminal moraine as 

 marking the southern limit of the area occupied by ice during 

 glacial times. Into this error Professor Lewis and I fell at first 

 equally with others, though I believe my experience led me to free 

 myself from it sooner than most others. The fact is that in Eastern 

 Pennsylvania, and in portions, certainly, of Kew Jersey, the 

 "fringe" does extend a considerable distance beyond the terminal 

 moraine. In the Susquehanna, the southern limit of the ice was 

 several miles below Berwick. While the Delaware Valley was 

 occupied by a lobe of the glacier, which extended in the axis of the 

 valley to the Musconetcong range, five or six miles southeast of 

 Easton, and about fifteen miles south of Belvidere, which has here- 

 tofore stood as the limit. The supposed evidences of a farther 

 extension of the ice southward are readily explained, in a manner 

 which I will presently detail. The evidence upon which these con- 

 clusions are based is as follows : 



1st, as to the Susquehanna terraces: I began my investigations at 

 Harrisburg. Here I had the advantage of the minute local knowl- 

 edge of Dr. Harvey B. Bashore, of West Fairview, who had been 

 in correspondence with me concerning the terraces of the vicinity 

 for more than two years. The terraces are for the most part situa- 

 ted in the city of Harrisburg, and Dr. Bashore has scoured the 

 country far and near, and speaks with no ordinary authority upon 

 the subject. I visited the principal points with him, and am pre- 

 pared to endorse his concise statement of the case which he has 

 written out for me at my request. 



" The first terrace at Harrisburg is 28 feet above low water (290 

 A. T.) upon which Front street is mainly built, and is composed of 

 clay suitable for brick-making, and contains many boulders of large 

 size (4 to 5 feet in diameter), composed of conglomerate and sand- 

 stone from the mountain, through which the river has cut a gap a 

 few miles above. This deposit is distinctly marked on both sides of 

 the river. 



" The second terrace is 46 feet above the river, but it is not plainly 

 marked. Third street, however, is in a great measure built upon it. 

 This bed is composed of gravel, which has in it some granite and 

 gneiss, and contains large and small boulders all rounded, and is 

 ■capped bv two to three feet of fine loam. 



"The third terrace is 90 feet above the river, and forms the plane 

 of Sixth street and part of Fifth. This deposit, which gives a good 

 perpendicular exposure of ]5 feet, is composed of fine gravel, some 

 portions of which are granite and gneiss. A few boulders ajipear in 

 it, from two to three feet in diameter. All are well rounded, and 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



the whole is capped by from four to five feet of fine clay. Almost 

 all of the boulders occur in the gravel. 



" From this terrace the slope is gradual down to Paxton Creek, 

 on the opposite side of which a slate hill (Allison Hill) rises very 

 abruptly, and is covered on the top bv the fourth terrace. 



'• The fourth terrace is 130 feet above the river, 420 A. T. At 

 Walnut and Herr streets there is a very good exposure showing the 

 gravel resting upon the slate. 



" The thickness of the deposit is about 20 feet, and it is capped by 

 fine brick clay. The gravel bed, especially at its upper part, pre- 

 sents a peculiar white appearance compared with the overlying 

 clay — the line of junction between the gravel and the clay being 

 very distinctly marked. Some rounded boulders occur in it two to 

 four feet in diameter, mostly in the gravel. I found one, however, 

 in the clay. The gravel contains a few pebbles of granite and 

 gneiss, but none were found more than two or three inches in diam- 

 eter. Above this point (420 A. T.) I could find no positive evidence 

 of water action, although I carefully examined all the surrounding 

 hills and mountains north of Harrisburg." 



The occurrence of granitic pebbles in these terraces is of great 

 significance, since it fixes them as contemporaneous with, or subse- 

 quent to, the glacial period, for there is no outcrop of this material 

 anywhere in the watershed of the Susquehanna above Harrisburg. 

 The only way the granite could have come wthin reach of Susque- 

 hanna floods was by ice transportation into its headwaters, from 

 Canada or the Adirondacks. This upper terrace, therefore, corres- 

 ponds with Mr. McGee's Columbia formation. 



In following up the river I went above the first three ranges of 

 mountains to Dauphin, and drove over Fourth Mountain to Halifax. 

 Near the mouths of the small valleys occupied by Clark and 

 Armstrong creeks, there are terrace accumulations up to about 150 

 feet above the river, composed for the most part of rounded material, 

 which might have been brought down the creeks. But at higher 

 levels there were no terraces. This was a drive up the river of 

 about fifteen miles, and took us gradually over two slopes, reaching 

 about 900 feet above the river. 



We next went up the river to Selinsgrove, about six miles below 

 Sunbury, and examined the country for a few miles east of the 

 river. Here we found the rounded pebbles of the terrace deposit 

 ceasing abruptly at a height of about 200 feet above the river, or 

 about 650 feet above tide. This corroborates Professor I. C. 

 White's observations, as recorded in G 7 p. 363 of the 2d Pa^ 

 Report. 




1892,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



Then ascending the river to Sunbury, we drove some miles east 

 toward Klinegrove, by a route which took us over a typical variety 

 of high and low land, then westward some miles back of Shickiliray, 

 then up both branches of the Susquehanna to Montour's Kidge, and 

 over the higher land intervening. The result was to convince us 

 that about 200 feet limits the deposits of pebbles which can be in any 

 way connected Avith terraces of the present river, and that there 

 were absolutely no deposits that could reasonably indicate the pres- 

 ence of land ice over that region at any time. A boulder of gneiss 

 one foot in diameter is reported from the fourth terrace at North- 

 umberland, 175 feet above the river. (G 7, p. 336.) 



We then ascended the river to Bloomsburg, and drove westward 

 to join the line of Lewis's terminal moraine near Knob Mountain, a 

 mile or two north of Orangeville, in Columbia County. Here we 

 found extensive terrace deposits in the valley of Fishing Creek, 

 rising something more than 100 feet above it. We also found con- 

 siderable deposits of transported boulders on the hills north of 

 Lightstreet, extending in a practically continuous sheet from 

 the terminal moraine which Lewis had located on the farm of Wm. 

 Beck, two miles north of Orangeville. Without much question the 

 ice extended here on the hills west of the river almost as far south- 

 west as Bloomsburg, and covered to a height of from 300 to 400 

 feet above the river, the projection of Montour's Ridge which 

 extends northeastward from the city. (See G 7, p. 256.) 



A drive over the uplands on the east side of the river as far as 

 Mifflinville, showed that there was nothing which could be attribu- 

 ted to glacial action over that area until reaching a point about two 

 miles south of Mifflinville, where a few conglomerate boulders and 

 some scratched stones appeared about 500 feet above the river. It 

 is perhaps possible that these may have been derived from the 

 higher outcrops on Nescopec Mountain, two or three miles to the 

 east. But they now rest on the surface of Hamilton slate, and are 

 separated from the mountain by a valley of considerable depth, 

 eroded by a small creek. So scarce, however, are these remnants of 

 the ice age that they escaped the eagle eye of Professor I. C. White. 

 (G. 7, p. 278.) But in view of the abundant signs observed 

 by him, as well as by myself on the other side of the river, I 

 have little hesitation in bringing the border of the glacial field on 

 the south side of the river, down to the west boundary of Mifflin 

 township. Professor White is also probably right in opposition to 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892, 



Professor Lewis in bringing the ice border down to Green Creek on 

 the north side of Knob Mountain, in Orange township. (G. 7, p. 

 217.) Thus it appears that the section between Bloomsburg and 

 Berwick (Am. Jour. vol. 135, pp. .S76, 464), upon which Mr. 

 McGee depends for proof of his Columbia submergence of 500 feet 

 in this region, is within the attenuated border or fringe, as I had 

 surmised, and hence fails to prove what he supposed. 



On passing over into the valley of the Lehigh, we first drove 

 from the Glen Summit Hotel to Hazleton, during which we satis- 

 fied ourselves that there are no glacial deposits much farther south 

 than the terminal moraine, as there marked by Professor Lewis at 

 Drums, where a short distance to the south, the outcropping coal 

 measures form a bold obstructing wall several hundred feet above 

 the valley of Nescopec Creek. But the region beyond is so broken 

 up by mining operations, and with the disintegrating debris of the 

 Pottsville Conglomerate, that I should not put entire confidence in 

 such investigations as I was able to make. 



In the broad anticlinal valley crossed by the Lehigh, between 

 Mauch Chunk ]\Iountain and Blue Ridge, hoAvever, the opportunity 

 for crucial tests is as good as could be desired. Here we found 

 that the evidence of direct occupation by glacial ice extended at 

 most only a few miles beyond the moraine, as marked on Lewis's 

 map. Extensive drives up the valley of Big Creek, near the 

 mountain north from Weissport, across the valley both of Big 

 Creek and Aquanchicola Creek to the Lehigh Water Gap, as well 

 as south from Lehighton, up and across the valley of Mahanoy 

 Creek, demonstrated to my satisfaction that glacial ice had never 

 extended to within ten miles of the Lehigh at this point. At 

 Lehighton, however, there is a well defined pebbly terrace rising 

 about 75 feet above the river. The material is well rounded, and 

 mixed with yellow sand and clay. These terrace deposits do not 

 appear above that level anywhere between Lehighton and the 

 Water Gap, either on the Lehigh or on its tributai'ies. But on the 

 gentle slopes of Mauch Chunk and Big Creek Mountains there are 

 many pebbles which have evidently been brought down in the slow 

 process of erosion. These are collected at various heights in special 

 quantity in front of the openings into the mountains effected by the 

 side streams, and in many cases clearly represent ancient deltas 

 when the whole drainage was at a higher level. 




1892.] XATUEAL SCIEJTCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



East of the Blue Ridge I was joined by Professor A. A. Wright, 

 who had been spending the summer at Flemington, N. J., and who 

 at my request had been giving attention to the deposits near by, at 

 High Bridge and Pattenburg. Hence I will begin with the conclu- 

 sions concerning those deposits so fully described by Professor 

 Salisbury and classed by him as glacial. And certainly at first 

 glance they do look enough like glacial deposits to " deceive if it 

 were possible the very elect." That in this case it is possible, I 

 think is proved by the fact that they have probably deceived Pro- 

 fessor Salisbury. As described so well by him (N. J. Geol. Sur. 

 1891, p. 103), these deposits show only slight signs of stratification, 

 and contain, mingled through the clay to a depth of from ten to thirty 

 feet, many boulders large or small, some of them several feet in diam- 

 eter, and most of them partially rounded. There are also many 

 smaller fragments of slate, nearly all of which are scratched. One 

 well scratched fragment, about two feet long and one and a half 

 wide, was observed well scratched on one side. At Pattenburg also 

 ■we found two or three of the boulders of harder rock somewhat 

 scratched. But such are very rare, and the rounding was not 

 quite characteristic of a glaciated region. 



A noticeable, and I believe, a crucial fact in determining the 

 character of the deposit, is that the material is local. The boul- 

 ders are all of a gneissoid character, such as compose the mountain 

 ■which in both places rises several hundred feet above the deposits 

 directly to the north, and down which boulders of the same sort are 

 creeping in majestic array in every direction. I did, however, at 

 High Bridge, note one small pebble which 'was possibly Potsdam 

 sandstone. Furthermore these mountain flanks were doubtless once 

 covered with strata of limestone and slate, such as are still found in 

 close proximity in the synclinal basins which have escaped erosion. 

 Hence it is possible, if not probable, that the fragments of slate are 

 the remains which have escaped absolute destruction by the erosive 

 agencies which have been so long at work in this whole region. 

 The scratches might well have been made in the process of creeping 

 down the disintegrating mountain side, which secures almost exactly 

 the same mechanical forces as the movement of a glacier does. 



Creep scratches engaged the attention of Professor Lewis and 

 myself at the outset of our investigations in Pennsylvania in 1881, 

 and are discussed at considerable length both on p. 96 of vol. Z, in the 

 account of phenomena at Hickory Kuu, in Carbon County, and in 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



other places. They were also noticed on the slate rocks at Bangor. 

 I have taken pains this summer to revisit some of these places, and 

 am more than ever impressed with the fact that a small scratched 

 surface, and a limited number of scratched pehbles do not prove a 

 glacial period. IS"ear Ackermansville, in Northampton County, Pa., 

 I observed excellent striae on the slate rock in a railroad cut, made by 

 the loose material which has slid down the bank since the cut was 

 opened a year or two ago. I also succeeded in securing well marked 

 scratches on slate pebbles by an artificial slide which I myself pro- 

 duced in the bank at Pattenburg. 



It is fair to say, however, that we found evidence of the true 

 fringe of the ice age so near to both High Bridge and Pattenburg, 

 that it is not much of a strain on the scientific imagination to 

 suppose that the ice here just crossed over Musconetcong Mountain 

 and ended for a while at these points. But that this was not the 

 case, I think is evident from the considerations following: — 



1st. The cause already adduced is entirely competent to produce 

 the results. There is no occasion to introduce a greater cause. 



2d. The absence, as just stated, of all material foreign to the im- 

 mediate locality, demonstrates the local character of the cause. 



3d. The appearance of foreign material as an overwash gravel in 

 the valley of the Musconetcong River, eight or ten miles to the 

 northwest just beyond Junction, shows that foreign material would 

 have been brought by glacial ice, had it extended so far. Here 

 pebbles of the enduring and well defined Medina sandstone, and 

 Oneida conglomerate, appear to a considerable extent, derived 

 probably from the moraine to the northeast, in which it has its 

 headwaters. But on the low summits of the parallel Pohatcong 

 Mountain, south of Washington, we failed to find any foreign mate- 

 rial in two cross sections which we made under favorable circum- 

 stances. In the valley of the Pohatcong, at and below Washington, 

 however, the foreign material is so abundant and of such size as to 

 make it probable that the glacial ice overrode Scott's Mountain. 

 Boulders of the Medina and Oneida sandstones occur here south of 

 Pohatcong River, in connection with a deposit of large extent of 

 finer material capped with loam and clay. The railroad also makes 

 two other good sections in till south of the mountains. From this 

 point on to the noi'th these characteristic foreign boulders are 

 found at frequent intervals on the road leading up the south side of 

 Scott's Mountain toward Oxford Furnace, to a height of 360 feet 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



479 



above the river. These boulders increase in abundance on the north 

 side, but are mingled in irregular ft\shion with the disintegrated 

 material of the gneiss of which the mountain is constituted. It is 

 this disintegrated local material, both here and at High Bridge and 

 Pattenburg, I presume, which Professor Salisbury has attributed 

 to an earlier glacial epoch. Two or three miles farther north begin 

 the accumulations which have been called the terminal moraine. 

 It is important to notice that there is continuity in the distribution 

 of this foreign material from the moraine southward over Scott's 

 Mountain into the valley of the Pohatcong at Washington, but that 

 the continuity seems to be broken at the low ridge of Pohatcong 

 Mountain. 



On going farther west this same continuity in the distribution of 

 foreign material in front of the moraine occurs down to an equal 

 and even longer distance south. The Medina and Oneida boulders 

 are very abundant at Little York, which is near the summit of 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892* 



Scott's Mountain, (400 feet above the river Pohatcoug. and 

 600 above the Delaware), and continues to Brass Castle, on 

 the Pohatcong. On going still farther west, we found the 

 same continuity of foreign boulders extending through Har- 

 mony over Marble Mountain, a projection of Scott's Moun- 

 tain, while the plain bordering the Pohatcong Creek was 

 deeply covered with Medina and Oneida boulders down to the 

 vicinity of Phillipsburg. These must have been derived from the 

 deposits which had been brought over from Scott's and Marble 

 Mountains by glacier ice. Going still farther south on this line 

 within five miles of the Delaware, we found Medina and Oneida 

 boulders all along to the summit of a col on Musconetcong 

 Mountain, two or three miles west of Bloomsbury, and at a height 

 of something over 500 feet above the river. Here a boulder of 

 Medina was found measuring 3x25x1 feet. Another still retained a 

 very perfectly scratched surface. 



The other portions of the mountain here rose about 200 feet 

 higher than this col, and upon them we failed to find foreign boul- 

 ders. But on following down a small stream leading south to 

 another Little York on Hikihokake Creek, bordering the Triassic 

 shales, which here begin, we found many pebbles of Medina sandstone 

 distributed about its ancient delta. But they did not extend far out 

 on the Triassic deposits. A long detour upon these showed that they 

 were perfectly free from foreign material. Though flanking the 

 gneissoid rocks of Musconetcong Mountain, which rises several 

 hundred feet above them, there has been no southern transportation 

 of material over that area since the original deposition of the 

 Triassic period. This seems to prove conclusively that glacial ice 

 once extended within five miles of the Delaware River, as far south 

 as the summit of Musconetcong Mountain and no farther. 



Some facts in confirmation of this inference occur at Pattenburg, 

 which is just over the watershed to the east, leading into the Raritan 

 River, and not more than seven miles distant. The supposed glacial 

 deposit there lies near the headwaters of Mulhockaway Creek, which 

 in the upper part separates the gneissoid rocks of Musconetcong 

 Mountain from the Triassic rocks to the south. The Triassic rocks 

 rise upward of 400 feet above the stream on the south, while the 

 gneissoid rocks rise about the same height on the north. The 

 Triassic deposits are here of a conglomerate character, often con- 

 taining pebbles a foot in diameter, some of which seem to have been 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



derived from the Medina group. Some of these occurred near the 

 Pattenburg cut, and at first deceived us. But subsequently we 

 found portions of this Triassic conglomerate in places in the cut, and 

 satisfied ourselves that there was nothing but local material there. 

 The gneissoid rocks have worked into the valley faster than the 

 Triassic, but at the same time the stream has cut down deeper on 

 the side occupied by the gneiss rock. There has been no inter- 

 mingling of material as there must have been had glacial ice covered 

 the whole area. Musconetcong Mountain was the limit of glacial 

 action east of the Delaware River and west of Bloomsburg. 



These inferences are confirmed by the absence of evidences of the 

 action of land ice in the country on both sides of the river south of 

 this point. From Riegelsville, near the mouth of the ]Musconet- 

 cong River, we drove to Bursonville, several miles out over the 

 Triassic plateau which there extends beyond the Archsean outcrop, 

 which rises several hundred feet on the south of the Lehigh, and 

 where, if there had been any southern transportation by land 

 ice, the remains would be most likely to be seen. But there was 

 not the least sign of foreign material to be found. We drove out on 

 both sides of the river at Lambertville, some distance down toward 

 Trenton, with the same result. Professor A. A. Wright drove 

 from Flemington across Sourland Mountain with the same result. 



Along the Delaware we found distinct terraces both of Trenton 

 and Columbia gravels. At Riegelsville the Columbia was well 

 developed in an extensive terrace, preserved in an ox bow of the 

 valley at a height of 175 feet. It had all the characteristics of the 

 Brick Clays and Red Gravel at Philadelphia and other places 

 below. 



In addition to these detours we took the ride along the North 

 Pennsylvania Railroad, from Bethlehem to Philadelphia, which 

 passes over Mesozoic deposits for a distance of 25 or 30 miles, and 

 shows almost a continuous section of the surface soil. There is no 

 foreign material in it or on it. The same is true in New Jersey in 

 the sections shown on the railroad from South Plainfield to Flem- 

 ington, and from Bound Brook to Trenton. 



The deposits at Fallsington belong to the Columbia. They are 

 related to the river level, and are not higher than those at Philadel- 

 phia. The occurrence of scratched stones in them simply teaches 

 that floating ice can transport material without effacing all scratches. 

 At Bridgeport, opposite Norristown, on the Schuylkill River, there 



32 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



is a terrace scarcely 100 feet high. I very much question whether 

 there are any " glaciated " pebbles in it. Certainly the whole 

 country around through which we drove for a considerable distance, 

 does not show signs of glacial action. I should say that the occur- 

 rence of scratched stones in that vicinity conclusively proves that 

 such striation can be produced by other causes than glacial ice. 

 The same is, perhaps, true of Professor Salisbury's other isolated 

 cases at Bethlehem and Sunbury, and probably support my 

 inferences concerning the deposits at High Bridge and Pattenburg. 



The conglomerate boulders between Monmouth Junction and 

 Deans are not over 100 feet above sea-level, and there is no higher 

 land between them and the Delaware at Trenton. They may, 

 therefore, easily have been floated into their present position during 

 the flooded condition of the lower Delaware Valley, when the depos- 

 its of Philadelphia red gravel and brick clay (the Columbia) took 

 place. 



The facts already presented concerning the extension of glacial 

 ice on the east side of the Delaware River for several miles south of 

 Easton, furnish the key to the perplexing phenomena of the Lehigh 

 Valley below Bethlehem. The fringe of glacial ice deposits extends 

 southward to the vicinity of Easton, and westward to the divide 

 between Bush kill and Monocacy creeks in the vicinity of Nazareth. 

 The evidence is not yet as complete as I would like, but there is 

 already enough to give a great degree of certainty. 



It is significant that ^Slonocacy Creek north of Bethlehem is per- 

 fectly free from pebbles — the natural reason being that it has its 

 course over limestone and slate formations which furnished none. 

 If these formations had been overrun by glacial ice, this would 

 not have been the case. On the other hand, Bushkill Creek has 

 them in abundance. The only difference between the creeks is that 

 boulders had been scattered over the headwaters of the Bushkill by 

 the ice, and not over those of Monocacy. That the ice extended 

 nearly, at least, to the watershed between the creeks seems certain, 

 from the fact that large boulders of Medina occur in considerable 

 abundance on the slate hills two miles north of Nazareth, at a height 

 of about 400 feet above the Bushkill. 



The Lehigh, from the Gap to Easton, flows through or across the 

 Hudson River Slates and Trenton Limestone, which so persistently 

 border the Blue Ridge all along the Atlantic coast. For some 

 reason, the surface of the limestone belt is pretty generally from 200 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



to 300 feet lower than the slate. Indeed the limestone is rarely 

 more than 200 feet above the river. Hence it is within reach of 

 the regular Columbia deposits. It is therefore difficult to tell 

 whether the distribution of glaciated material over this area about 

 Bethlehem and toward Easton was by direct glacial action or by the 

 aid of water. The extension of the ice past the mouth of the 

 Lehigh would indicate a good deal of disturbance in the drainage 

 of the river, and I am inclined to recognize that agency in account- 

 ing for many of the facts. The terraces at Bethlehem are not over 

 200 feet above the river. If, however, it be true that Professor 

 Salisbury has found glaciated pebbles 500 feet above the river on 

 the mountain south of the city I should grant the extension of the 

 glacier to that point. But such an extension seems to nie improb- 

 able, from the lay of the land. The glacier which surmounted 

 Blue Ridge at Offset Mountain, and in its retreat piled up the vast 

 moraine at Ackermansville, may well have fanned out to cover the 

 hills north of Nazareth, and it certainly deposited a moraine of 

 considerable dimensions near Shimerville, about five miles north of 

 Easton. But it seems unlikely that it could extend as far as Beth- 

 lehem, and since we have other causes in the field to easily account 

 for all the facts that appear there, we need not make the supposi- 

 tion. Floating ice in a river valley gorged as this was both by bergs 

 from the glacier further up, and by land ice at its mouth, is cause 

 sufficient, and there is no need of asking for more. 



The conclusion of the whole matter is : — 1st, That on the Atlantic 

 coast, as in the Mississippi Valley, there is usually a fringe of thinner 

 glacial deposits extending a few miles more or less, south 

 of any well defined moraine. 2d, That this fringe is lim- 

 ited in the east branch of the Susquehanna by Montour's 

 Ridge at Bloomsburg. That all tlie higher glacial deposits 

 below that point belong to the Columbian era, and do not 

 extend anywhere much above 200 feet above the river, while 

 at Harrisburg they are limited to about 130 feet. 3d, That in the 

 Delaware Valley the ice extended about six miles past the mouth of 

 the Lehigh, and for several miles northeastward was limited by 

 Musconetcong Mountain, and then drew back to the rear of 

 Pohatcong Mountain. Farther east, however, these mountains both 

 come again into the range of the ice movement. 4th, That the 

 lower part of the Lehigh was specially clogged with ice, so as to 

 increase the floods for some distance up toward the Gap, but the ice 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



did not pass over South Mountain into the Triassic plain of Bucks 

 County, oth, That below this moderate fringe there is no evidence 

 of direct glacial action, but every evidence against it, except possi- 

 bly at High Bridge and Pattenburg. 6th, The important thing to do 

 now is accurately to delineate the border of this fringe by the aid 

 of the easily recognizable transported foreign material. Since last 

 summer I have been able to determine the limit approximately 

 a few miles south of Draketown, near German Valley, about half 

 way between High Bridge and Dover. A few days' work would, I 

 am confident, determine the line entirely across the State. 7th, 

 The deposits mentioned by Professor Salisbury at Fallsington, in 

 Pennsylvania, and at Monmouth and Kingston, in New Jersey, 

 consist of material which has been distributed by the floods coming 

 down the Delaware River, while those at High Bridge and Patten- 

 burg possibly belong to the fringe, but more probably to move- 

 ments connected with the secular disintegration of the gneissoid 

 mountain core, at whose southern base they now lie. 8th, That the 

 facts do not lend support to the theory of a discontinuity between 

 the drift north of the moraine and that south of it. Instead of hold- 

 ing with Professor Salisbury that the drift under discussion has "not 

 had any genetic connection with the moraine, or any time relation 

 to it, except one of great separation" (N. J. Ann. Rep. for 1891, 

 p. 105), we should hold that it had both a genetic connection and a 

 moderately close time relation. It is not true that the extra-morainic 

 drift is, as Professor Salisbury says, " composed of materials which 

 are, in some measure, inherently unlike those which compose the 

 moraine." The drift material is essentially the same. The material 

 in it " inherently unlike those which compose the moraine, " comes 

 from the gneissoid rocks with which it is mingled, and which have 

 been undergoing disintegration for untold ages. The "advanced 

 stage " of " oxidation, leaching, disintegration," apparent at Little 

 York and the other places mentioned by Professor Salisbury, is 

 plainly due to preglacial, rather than to postglacial influences. "We 

 cannot, therefore, with him hold "that this extra-morainic drift 

 represents the remnant of a drift-covering once more extensive and 

 more uniformly present than now, and that, ... it was formed 

 . . . by an ice sheet which overspread New Jersey much earlier 

 than that which made the terminal moraine, and the main body of 

 drift which lies north of it." (N. J. Ann. Rep. for 1891, p. 105.) 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee : — 



REPORT OF RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that the meetings 

 of the Academy have been held without intermission throughout 

 the year, a sufficient number of members being present every 

 Tuesday evening, even through the mid-summer months, for the 

 transaction of scientific business. 



The average attendance has steadily increased, amounting during 

 the twelve months from Dec. 1, 1891, to Nov. 30, 1892, to 64 as 

 compared with 52 in 1891, and 30 in 1889. This satisfactory 

 result has been due in part to the interest felt in the ordinary 

 verbal coaimunications made at the meetings, but in a measure to 

 the extraordinary attendance secured by issuing postal card noticee 

 of events somewhat distinct from the routine work of the Academy. 

 Among these may be mentioned an illustrated address on the 

 exploration of Labrador by Mr. Henry G. Bryant, a paper by the 

 President on the extent of the coal supply of the world and the 

 possible consequences of its exhaustion, an account by the Rev. INlr. 

 Nassau of the character, habits and mode of capture of the gorilla, 

 and the report by Lieutenant R. E. Peary of the results of his 

 Greenland exploration. 



The attendance on these occasions varied from 137, who listened 

 to Mr. Nassau's paper, to 922, who were present when Lieutenant 

 Peary made his report. In addition to these, and in many cases 

 not of less importance, communications have been made by Messrs 

 Allen, A. P. Brown, Calvert, Chapman, Cope, Dixon, Foote, 

 Goldsmith, Hay, Heilprin, Holman, Ives, Koenig, McCahey, 

 McCook, Martindale, Pilsbry, Rand, Rex, Ryder, Sharp, Willcox 

 and Woolman. 



Ninety-seven pages of the Proceedings for 1891, illustrated by 

 3 plates, and 325 pages for 1892, illustrated by 13 plates, have 

 been issued. The third part of the ninth volume of the quarto 

 journal, consisting of 159 pages and 8 plates, has also been published 

 and distributed to subscribers and exchanges. The Conchological 

 Section has continued the publication of the Manual of Conchology, 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



two volumes in continuation of the first and second series of the 

 work, devoted respectively to Marine Univalves and Pulmonata,. 

 having been completed. They consisted of 420 pages and 126 

 plates. During the same time the Entomological Section has dis- 

 tributed 268 pages and 10 plates of the "Entomological News," and 

 307 pages with 16 plates of the Transactions. As it is through its 

 publications the Academy is brought into communication with the 

 scientific world, the record of its activity in this department during 

 the past year is most gratifying. 



Twenty-four papers have been presented for publication as fol- 

 lows :— H. A. Pilsbry 4, Edw. D. Cope 3, J. E. Ives 2, William 

 B. Scott 2, Thomas Meehan 2, William J. Fox 1, Isaac J. Wistar 

 1, Carl H. Eigenmaun and Rosa S. Eigenmann 1, Henry C. Chap- 

 man 1, A. P. Brown 1, Witmer Stone 1, Henry Skinner 1, John A. 

 Ryder 1, Horace A. Hoffman 1, Ernest Walker 1, and Edw. L. 

 Green 1. One of these was returned to the author, one was with- 

 drawn by the author, and the others have either been published or 

 are in the hands of the printer. The greater number of communi- 

 cations made verbally at the meetings have been reported by the 

 authors and printed in the Proceedings. 



The edition of the Proceedings of the Academy is 1,000 copies, 

 90 of which are sent out to subscribers, and 500 to exchanges. Of 

 the Journal 500 copies are printed, 37 are sent to subscribers and 

 50 to exchanges. 



It is again necessary to urge the desirability of greatly enlarg- 

 ing the Publication Fund so as to enable the Publication Committee 

 to secure prompt issue, with creditable illustrations, of all worthy 

 communications presented to the Academy. Our obligations to 

 our correspondents increase yearly, and the liberal exchanges for 

 which, as will be seen by the Librarian's report, we are indebted 

 to kindred societies throughout the world, still constitute the chief 

 and by far the most important additions to our library. In this 

 exchange of the results of brain-work, the Academy cannot afford 

 to be on the debtor side of the account. 



Sixty members and six correspondents have been elected, an 

 important increase in the former over the accessions of recent 

 years. The deaths of ten members and of three correspondents have 

 been announced and recorded in the published Proceedings. The 

 following members have resigned : — Otto Luthy, Minford Levis 

 M. D., Robert Meade Smith M. D., Henry Hartshorne M. D., W. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



S. Auchinchloss, E. F. Smith, H. LeBarre Jayne, S. N. Rhoads and 

 Mrs. E. L. Head. The actual increase in membership, therefore, 

 at the end of the year is forty-one. 



The departure of the expedition for the relief of Lieutenant 

 Peary, and its return, Sept. 23, accompanied by the exploring party 

 which had beenleft at McCormick Bay, July 30 of the preceding 

 year, were the events in the current history of the Academy which 

 attracted most popular attention and interest. The details of the 

 enterprise, the success of Lieutenant Peary and his associates, 

 and of the party which went to their relief under the direction of 

 Professor Heilprin, have been reported to the Academy. It is 

 gratifying to be able to record that the work of investigating the 

 geography of Northern Greenland and the region beyond, so ably 

 carried on by Lieutenant Peary, will in all probability be continued 

 by him during the coming year, as on the application of the Presi- 

 dent of the Academy, he has been granted leave of absence for that 

 purpose by the Navy Department. 



The new lecture hall of the Academy, an important addition to 

 the educational facilities of the society, was transferred by the Board 

 of Trustees of the Building Fund, Feb. 23. The usual Friday 

 evening lectures are delivered in it. Its use was granted to 

 Professor Rothrock for the delivery of the Michaux forestry 

 lectures, and several of the meetings of the Geographical Club, a 

 society in close affiliation with the Academy, have been held 

 therein. 



In response to an application from the State Board of Health, 

 Dr. S. G. Dixon was appointed March 8th as the representative 

 of the Academy to act in conjunction with the Board in making a 

 bacteriological exhibition at the coming Columbian Exposition in 

 Chicago. It is gratifying that the society is thus to be associated 

 with a representation of a branch of original research which is 

 certainly second to none in the practically beneficial results to be 

 derived from its cultivation. 



Mr. Jacob Binder Avas re-appointed Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux collections. As Mr. Binder has been, during a portion of the 

 year, unable in consequence of failing health to discharge the 

 duties of the position, Mr. W. W. Jefferis was appointed as his 

 associate. The growth of the collections under their charge is 

 recorded in the special report prepared by Mr. Jefferis. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The Hayden Memorial Medal and fund has been awarded to 

 Professor Ediiard Suess of Vienna, the importance of whose 

 geological work fully merits the recognition recommended by the 

 Academy's Committee, 



The resignation of Dr. George A. Koenig from the Council, 

 in consequence of his removal to the West, was received and 

 accepted with regret. By resolution of the Academy, the election 

 to fill the vacancy was deferred until the annual meeting. 

 All of which is respectfully^ submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year commencing December 1, 1891, he has received one hundred 

 and fifcy-one acknowledgments of the receipt of the publications of 

 the Academy from eighty-one Societies, Museums, etc., and seventy- 

 eight notices of the forwarding of their own publications from sixty- 

 one Societies, etc. There has been received fifteen applications to 

 exchange publications and asking for missing numbers of the Aca- 

 demy's Journal and Proceedings and three notifications to discon- 

 tinue exchange. In addition, thirty-two letters on various subjects 

 have been received and seventeen written. Nine circulars and five 

 invitations to the Academy to participate in congresses, meetings, 

 etc., have been received and answered. Six notices of deaths have 

 been recorded. 



During the year six correspondents have been elected, and 

 notices to that eflSect have been forwarded. The deaths of three 

 correspondents have been reported. Twenty-five certificates have 

 been sent to members and six to correspondents. 



One thousand three hundred and nine acknowledgments for 

 gifts to the library, and two hundred and twenty-five for gifts to 

 the Museum have been forwarded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Sharp, 



CorreqjoncUng Secretary. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



489 



I have pleasure in reporting that the statistics of the library 

 during the twelve months from Nov. 30, 1891, to Dec. 1, 1892, 

 indicate a steady increase in the rate of growth in this department 

 of the Academy. The number of accessions amount to 6,111. 

 This includes 1,108 volumes forming the John Warner library, to 

 be referred to later. Exclusive of this special gift, the current 

 ■accessions include 4,556 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 413 

 volumes and 34 maps, making a total of 5,008, as compared with 

 4,335 of the preceeding year. 



They were derived from the following sources: — 



Societies, 2,302 Geological Survey of Texas, 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . . 1,014 I East Indian Government, . 



Editors, 939 



Authors, 199 



U. S. Department of the Interior, 142 



Wilson Fund, 75 



Thomas Meehan 42 



Geographical Survey of Mexico, 29 



U. S. Department of Agriculture, 26 



Charles P. Perot, 24 



H. C. Chapman, 15 



■Geological Survey of Russia, 

 U. S. Department of State, . 

 Pennsylvania State Librarian, 

 Minister of Public Works of 



France, 



Henry M. Fisher, 



U. S. Treasury Department, . 

 Geological Survey of India, 

 Geological Survey of Finland, . 



H. A. Piisbry, 



Angelo Heilprin, . . • . . 

 Geological Survey of Alabama, 

 Tennesfee State Board of Health, 

 Geographical Survey of Canada, 

 State Entomologist of Illinois, 

 U. S. Lighthouse Board, . . . 

 U. S. War Department, . . . 



British Museum, 



Charles E. Smith, 



Geological Survey of Kentucky, 

 U. S. Coast Survey, .... 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 



14 

 14 

 14 



13 

 10 

 8 

 8 

 6 

 6 

 4 

 4 

 4 

 4 

 3 

 3 



Benjamin Sharp, 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Garden, 

 Depaitment of Mines, N. S. W., 



Rev. D. B. McCartee 



Ohio State Board of Agriculture, 

 Geological Suivey of New York, 

 Australian Government, . . . 

 Geological Survey of Missouri, . 

 Geological Survey of Arkansas, 

 Ohio State Board of Agriculture, 

 Pennsvlvania State Board of 



Hea'lth, 



Trustees of East Indian Museum, 

 Smithsonian Institution, . . . 



W. H. Dall, • 



Missouri Botanical Garden, . 



C. C. Febiger 



Illinois Department of Agriculture, 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey, 



H.G.Ives, 



W. J. Fox, ....... 



Department of Mines, Nova Scotia, 



G. E. Frisby, 



Massachusetts State Board of 



Agriculiuie 



T. H. Morgan, 



Geological Survey of Portugal, . 

 Geological Survey of Minnesota, 

 Norwegian Government, . . 

 Geological Survey of Indiana, . 

 E. [. Nolan, 




490 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Meteorological Service of Canada 1 



Iowa Agricultural College, . . 1 



Prof. James Hall, 1 



Charles M. Belts, 1 



Department of Labor, ... . 1 



Navy Department, 1 



H. B. M. Government, ... 1 



Robert Walton, .... 

 Minister of Works, Mexico, 

 Russian Government, . 



S. G. Dixon, 



Henry Skinner, .... 

 J. H. Redfield, . . 



They were distributed to the departments of the library as 

 follows : — 



Journals, 4,060 



193 

 138 

 90 

 65 

 57 

 35 

 30 

 29 



Geology, ...... 



Botany, 



General Natural History, 

 Entomology, .... 

 Anatomy and Physiology, 

 Conchology, . . . . 

 Physical Science, . . 

 Voyages and Travels, 

 Mineralogy, . . . . • 

 Anthropology, . . . . 



Helminthology, 



Ornithology, 



Herpetology, 



Encyclopedias, 



Mammalogy, 



Chemistry, . , 



Agriculture, 



Medicine, . 



Bibliography, 



Ichthyology, 



22 I Geography, 



19 

 12 

 12 

 1 

 9 

 9 



One hundred and sixty accessions were on subjects foreign to the 

 Academy's interests and remain unclassified. 



Mr. John Warner, who died in July 7, 1873, bequeathed to the 

 Academy his library. It consists of 1,045 volumes, and upward of 

 1,200 pamphlets, forming 63 additional volumes, for the most part 

 on pure mathematics, physical science and engineering. The will 

 was made within one month of Mr. Warner's death, the Academy, 

 therefore having been adjudged by the Courts a public charity, 

 could not inherit nor could the books be otherwise conveyed to the 

 society until the coming of age of Mr. Warner's infant daughter, who 

 on attaining her majority, signified her wish that her father's 

 desire should be complied with. 



The books have therefore been conveyed to the Academy as the 

 gift of Mrs. Anna L. and Miss Lydia Warner in harmony with the 

 wishes of the husband and father. The library is specially rich in 

 works of the last century on pure mathematics, and forms a valuable 

 addition to the Academy's bibliographic wealth. It has been 

 arranged in one of the alcove rooms. 



Having been again enabled by friends of the Academy to avail 

 myself during the summer and autumn of the services of Signer E. 

 Fronani, he has been employed the greater part of the time on the 

 arrangement and cataloguing of the AVarner library, a work 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



which otherwise could not have been so promptly performed because 

 of the want of available clerical assistance. Author and subject 

 card catalogues of the collection have been completed, while an 

 author catalogue has been prepared for the pamphlets, which have 

 been arranged in 63 volumes ready for binding. 



Two hundred and thirty-five volumes have been bound, including 

 Audubon's elephant folio work on the Birds of North America, 

 the plates of which have been carefully cleaned and backed with 

 linen. A special case for the reception of this work has been 

 ordered and will be so constructed as to permit the volumes 

 to be placed flat, an arrangement which has been found by experi- 

 ence to be desirable for their preservation from injury. There is 

 still need of a much larger annual appropriation for ])inding than 

 the Academy has heretofore been in a position to make. 



In the current work of the library I have received satisfactory 

 assistance from Mr. William J. Fox, to whose usual duties has been 

 added that of promptly acknowledging gifts and exchanges from 

 societies and individuals. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Lihr(U'l<in. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The yearly reports of the Curators, (the late Professor Leidy being 

 their Chairman) during the last decade, state substantially that the 

 collections in the museum were properly arranged and cared for. 

 Mr. Charles F. Parker, then Curator-in-Charge, said in his report 

 for the year ending November 30, 1882, that "the various collec- 

 tions have been carefully examined, and are in good condition." 

 He died September 27, 1883. Professor Angelo Heilprin was 

 elected in his place October 2, 1883. 



In his report for the year ending November 30, 1883, he stated, 

 in substance, that the condition of the museum though not "abso- 

 lutely satisfactory, is yet fairly good when compared to the condi- 

 tion of similar collections in this country, or even of those pertain- 

 ing to foreign institutions." 



In all his subsequent reports, including that for the year ending 

 November 30, 1891, he states that all the collections are in " good," 

 or in " satisfactory " condition. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



April 1, 1892, although requested by his fellow-curators to retain 

 it, Professor Heilprin resigned the office of Curator-in-Charge, 

 which he had continuously filled during eight years and a half, it 

 is believed, with general approval. 



His colleagues then determined to take care of the Museum as an 

 executive body without compensation. They agreed that the senior 

 of the Board should be the Director, and that Professor Dixon 

 should be his representative and the executive Curator. 



A careful examination of the premises, Avhich the by-laws place in 

 charge of the Curators, was at once begun, and continued through- 

 out the year. Drs. Dixon and Chapman have given much time 

 and labor to rectifying whatever they considered to be in need 

 of correction. 



Professor Heilprin did not take part in the work, because about 

 the time of his resignation, he was fully occupied preparing to lead 

 a party to relieve Mr. R. E. Peary, who under the auspices of the 

 Academy, started last year, suitably equipped and accompanied, on 

 an exploring expedition in Greenland. Both parties safely returned 

 September 24th. Prof Heilprin at once resumed his office of Sec- 

 retary of the Board of Curators, and devoted much time and labor in 

 properly disposing of and arranging the mass of material brought to 

 the Academy by the two expeditions to Greenland. 



The Curators began their work in the cellar. They found some 

 valuable specimens and much rubbish. It is supposed that, in the 

 course of the decade, those specimens were placed there to remain 

 only till space in the museum for their proper exhibition should be 

 found. 



Rooms in the cellar for the use of the taxidermist, one for the 

 storage of duplicate specimens ready for exchange, and another 

 for spare shelves, lumber, etc., were suitably appropriated. 



Many specimens found astray in library-rooms were properly 

 placed in the museum. A room in the library is in course of pre- 

 paration as the office of the Curators, in which will be aranged all 

 papers, correspondence, etc., pertinent to their duties. 



In the museum were found some specimens misplaced, some in a 

 decaying state and a few quite ruined. Dozens of skulls, which 

 were covered with a destructive growth, were cleaned and sterilized. 



The skilful taxidermist of the Academy, Mr. D. N. McCadden, 

 has remounted all the mammals, and repaired several valuable 




1892.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA, 493 



specimens. The birds of North America have been remounted, and 

 many duplicates withdrawn. 



The wet preparations, especially those of reptiles and fishes, have 

 been placed in fresh alcohol. 



The positions of some of the cases in the museum have been 

 changed, making, as is supposed, inspection of their contents more 

 satisfactory. 



Specimens on the walls of the main stairway to the museum have 

 been re-arranged and labelled. The archreological collection has 

 been concentrated, and the Yaux collection of minerals is now 

 daily open to visitors. 



Air-tight dark cases for the preservation of duplicate mammal 

 and bird-skins have been provided, and a germicide has been placed 

 in all cases containing organic preparations. 



Many specimens loaned but not duly returned have been recov- 

 ered. 



At different times during the year the Curators have received 

 valuable assistance from Professors Cope, Ryder and Allen in iden- 

 tifying certain species of reptiles, fishes and bats among the wet 

 preparations. 



The labor of the Professor of the lower vertebrata during the year 

 is notable. He has re-labeled and numbered 403 trays and bottles 

 containing specimens of 178 species and varieties of 56 genera in the 

 carcinological collection, and prepared a complete catalogue of the 

 same. 



Lack of space for suitable arrangement and satisfactory exhibi- 

 tion of our great collections has existed many years. This need will 

 be supplied in the course of the next year. The erection of an 

 additional building, now in process of construction, will add about 

 30,000 square feet to the floor space of the museum. For a large 

 part of the means to enable the Trustees of the building fund to do 

 this work, it seems proper to mention here that the Academy is 

 very much indebted to the ability and steadiness of purpose of 

 Professor Heilprin, Avho several times visited Harrisburg, and by 

 his representation to members thereof, greatly contributed to satisfy 

 the Legislature of Pennsylvania of the worthiness of the Academy 

 to receive pecuniary assistance from the State. Possibly, without 

 the influence of his intervention, appropriations might not have 

 been granted at the time. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



An accouut of special collections in the immediate care of the 

 Sections or Professors of the Academy is not offered here as it is 

 properly a part of their annual reports. It is believed that all the 

 collections are in good condition. 



Lists of the additions to the museum during the year will be 

 appended, including those procured in Greenland by Professor 

 Heilprin with means supplied by the Academy. 



Respectfully submitted, 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



This section has held during the year 1892, nine meetings exclu- 

 sive of those in conjunction with the Academy. 



The membership has been increased by one new member, and one 

 name has been added to the list of contributors. 



Many interesting communications have been made, the more 

 important of which are : 



On Actinomyces bovis, by Dr. S. G. Dixon. 



A peculiarity in the skull of a Bat, by Dr. Harrison Allen. 



Young of Baculites, by Mr. A. P. Brown. 



Syphoptychium and Tubulina, by Dr. G. A. Rex. 



Films of metallic Gold, by D. S. Holman. 



Hippa, by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



Pinnotheres, by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



Joint formation among the Invertebrata, retiring address of Direc- 

 tor Benjamin Sharp. 



Additions to the property of the Section have been made as 

 follows : 



By purchase — One Spencer 1 inch objective. 

 — Two " B " eye-pieces. 



By donation — One xV inch objective, from Mr. A. P. Brown. 



One Centennial Microscope from the heirs of Dr. R. S. Kenderdine. 



About 600 slide preparations from the heirs of Dr. R. S. Ken- 

 derdine. 



About 45 slide preparations from Mr. Harold Wingate. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



About 50 slide preparations from Dr. George A. Rex. 

 About 25 slide preparations from other members. 



The officers for the ensuing year are : — 



Director, ]Mr, A. P. Brown. 



Vice-Director, . 

 Recorder, 

 Treasurer, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Conservator, 



Mr. Jno. C. Wilson. 

 Mr. Harold Wingate. 

 Mr. Chas. P. Perot. 

 Dr. Chas. SchafFer. 

 Dr. Geo. A. Rex. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Harold Wingate, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONSERVATOR OF THE CONCHO- 

 LOGICAL SECTION. 



Since the last annual meeting of the Conchological Section, 

 specimens have been received from thirty persons ; the entire num- 

 ber of trays added to the museum being 1,150, a detailed list of 

 which is hereto appended. 



A valuable accession to the museum during the year is the col- 

 lection of mollusks both dry and alcoholic, dredged in Greenland 

 waters, by Professor Angelo Heilprin, of the Peary Relief Expedi- 

 tion. Although they have not yet been studied, the writer has 

 ascertained the presence of a number of species not before in the 

 collection of the Academy, of the genera Margarita, Buccinutn, 

 JSipho and other Arctic groups. The specimens being preserved in 

 alcohol, are in excellent condition for the examination of the soft 

 parts. 



Various correspondents of the Conservator have supplied a con- 

 siderable number of our desiderata in United States mollusks; but 

 the greater number of additions from this country have been through 

 the American Association of Conchologists. The special exhibit of 

 American mollusks, being formed by this Association, has been 

 increased during the year by 443 trays, representing nearly that 

 number of species. The total number of trays now in this American 

 exhibit is 1,510, representing 730 recent and 425 fossil species. 



From Messrs G. E. and A. H. Verrill, we have received several 

 rare species from Dominica, W. I., and from Professor Jos6 N. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Rovirosa, a valuable collection of land and fresh-water shells from 

 the State of Tabasco, Mexico, including a number of new forms; a 

 list of these, with descriptions and illustrations of the new species, 

 is published in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



The more valuable accessions from Australasia, have been the 

 series of New Zealand Chitons, received from Professor F. W. 

 Hutton, of Christchurch, N. Z. ; the New Zealand gasteropods, 

 lamellibranchs and brachiopods, received from Mr. G. W. Wright, 

 of Auckland, N. Z, ; and a series of 34 selected species of Australian 

 gasteropods from Mr. Billinghurst, for which the same number of 

 American shells were sent in exchange. 



From Dr. 0. F. v. MollendorfF, of Manila, Philippine Islands, 35 

 species of land shells, new to our collection, being with a few excep- 

 tions, his own new species. Also a series of 20 Oriental Helices in 

 alcohol, for dissection. 



In the museum the land shells have been remounted and system- 

 atically arranged, as far as they have been monographed in the last 

 completed volume of the Manual. The arrangement of the marine 

 gasteropoda is also practically completed as far as the Chitons, the 

 study of which has not been finished. 



Four cases fitted with shallow trays in lieu of drawers, have been 

 supplied by the Curators of the Academy, affording space for the 

 systematic arrangement of the limpets and chitons. It is hoped that 

 equal facilities for the accommodation of the Bulimi will be pro- 

 vided during the coming year. 



The Conservator has received much assistance during the year 

 from Messrs Campbell, Johnson and Ford ; these gentlemen having 

 re-arranged the cases containing fluviatile gasteropods, which have 

 been inconveniently over-crowded for several years past. The 

 entire work of determining, labelling and mounting the specimens 

 of the American Association collection has also been performed by 

 the same gentlemen. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Conservator. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the year, ten meetings have been held, with an average 

 attendance often persons; the largest number present at a meeting 

 being thirteen, and the smallest eight. The meetings have been 

 interesting and instructive, verbal communications on entomological 

 subjects having been made by nearly all the members and associ- 

 ates. Three new members have been elected and two associates. 

 Considerable work has been accomplished in the re-arrangement and 

 care of the collections by the Conservator and some of the members, 

 and about twenty-two hundred specimens have been added to the 

 cabinets; this does not include a thousand or more received through 

 " Entomological News " to be named. Among the most noteworthy 

 additions were 845 ISIexican Coleoptera, presented by Dr. Horn ; 

 types of Tachinidie, by C. H. T. Townsend; the Stone collection of 

 spiders, 160 species in 400 vials, by Mr. Witmer Stone ; types of 

 Jassid?e, by E. P. Van Duzee ; 35 species of Aculeate Hymenoptera^ 

 by Charles Robertson ; a collection of Japanese and Indian Lepi- 

 doptera, presented by Mrs. L. Stevens through Dr. H. C. McCook i 

 American and European Odonata presented by P. P. Calvert 

 and the insect collection brought home by the Peary Relief 

 Expedition. The Section has published during the year Vol. 3, 

 of the Entomological News, with the financial aid and encouragement 

 of the American Entomological Society. The volume closed with 

 268 pages and ten plates. The journal will be continued with 

 32 or more pages a month, and will be regularly illustrated. It is 

 now just double the size of Vol. 1, which contained 16 pages per 

 month, and no illustrations. It is the only regularly illustrated 

 entomological journal in the world. 



At the last meeting, on December 12th, the following were elected 

 to serve as officers for the ensuing year : 



Director, Ceo. H. Horn. 



I. C. :Martindale. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 E. T. Cresson. 

 I J. H. Ridings, 

 I Philip Laurent. 

 Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



Vice-Director, . 

 Conservator, . 

 Recorder, 

 Treasurer, 



Publication Committee, 



33 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892, 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports 

 that the Section is wholly free from debt, and that the monthly 

 meetings have been regularly held, except during the three summer 

 months. Besides the valuable additions to the library and herbar- 

 ium of the Academy, announced at each meeting, many interesting 

 addresses have been given by Messrs Meehan, Redfield, Macfarlane, 

 Brinton, U. C. Smith, Wilson, Martindale and others, some of 

 which have been published, or will appear, in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy. 



The membership now consists of 32, and the officers elected for 

 the ensuing year are : 



Director, .... Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Vice-Director, .... Thomas Meehan. 

 Recorder, ..... Dr. Charles Schaffer. 

 Cor. Secretary and Treasurer, . Isaac C. Martindale. 

 Conservator, ..... John H. Redfield. 



It is a pleasure to note that under the zealous and unremitting 

 •care of the Conservator, Mr. Redfield, the growth of the herbarium 

 noted annually for some time past, is not only maintained, but 

 exceeds that of any previous year. No less than 3,934 species have 

 come to hand, nearly equally divided between the Old and the New 

 "World, and of these 2,087 were species new to the herbarium. 



A list of these contributions is given in detail by the Conservator, 

 and will be found in the list of additions to the museum. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice- Direct or. 



Report of tJie Conxervator. — In presenting his report for the year 

 now closing, the Conservator of the Botanical Section has the satis- 

 faction of stating that in no previous year have the contributions to it 

 been larger or more valuable. With the increased accommodation 

 which we may hope soon to enjoy, we have every reason to expect a 

 continued, substantial and healthy growth of a collection so import- 

 ant to the study of systematic and practical botany. 



The contributions during the past year reach a total of 3,934 

 species. Of these, 284 belong to the lower Cryptogams, 80 being 

 Mosses, 57 Hepaticse, 16 Lichens, 2 Algae and 129 Fungi. Of the 

 remaining 8,650 species of Phanerogams and Ferns, 1,269 proved to 




1892.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



be new to the herbarium, 39 of them being of newly represented 

 genera. Of these 3,650 species, 294 are North American, 1,269 are 

 Mexican and South American, and 2,087 are from the Old World. 



The usual detailed statement of the contributions will appear in 

 the list of additions to the museum. In specifying here some of 

 the more important, the first place must be given to the very large 

 accession to our representation of the Orient Flora, in the plants 

 collected by Bornmiiller and Sintenis, in Greece, Macedonia, Asia 

 Minor, Armenia, Kurdistan and Mesopotamia, and purchased for 

 the Academy by the liberality of l\lr. Charles E. Smith and a 

 few other friends of botanical science. These amount to 1,226 

 species, of which 567 are new to us. Dr. Morong's collections in 

 Paraguay, sent us during the year, amount to 459 species, more 

 than half being new to us. Pringle's Mexican collections, made in 

 1891, are of the same carefully selected and well prepared speci- 

 mens as heretofore, and reach 266 species, 125 being new to us. 

 Our faithful correspondent, Mr. T. S. Brandegee, of San Francisco, 

 has sent us 268 species from the peninsula of Lower California, of 

 which nearly one-half are novelties to us. From the University of 

 Pennsylvania we have received 148 species, collected by Dr. Joseph 

 T. Rothrock in Jamaica and the Bahama Islands, in his voyage 

 made in the winter of 1890 and 1891. Mr. Meehan has presented 

 us with another instalment of Baron von Miiller's Australian 

 plants, amounting to 135 species. 



These additions have all been properly mounted and distributed 

 to their proper places in the herbarium. The labor and time 

 demanded by this work, have prevented much progress in the 

 mounting of the older portions of the herbarium, yet something 

 has been done in this direction, and the work will be continued as 

 opportunity may permit. 



The botanical collections made in Greenland by the Peary Relief 

 Expedition, Mr. William E. Meehan, botanist, during the past 

 summer, are still under study ; they will be included in the report of 

 next year. Mr. Stewardson Brown, who so carefully studied the 

 collections made by Dr. Burk during the expedition of 1891, is 

 engaged upon those of 1892, and reports that the specimens are in 

 much better condition than those of the former year, the circumstances 

 attending the collection having been much more favorable. 



Respectfully submitted, 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGI- 

 CAL SECTIOX. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the 

 Academy, "would respectfully report that meetings of the Section 

 with the Academy have been held regularly every month during 

 the year, besides other meetings of the Section. 



One hundred and four specimens of minerals and rocks have 

 been presented during the year by twenty individuals. 



The special feature of the year has been a series of excursions by 

 the Section to various points of mineralogical and geological inter- 

 est in the vicinity of Philadelphia. These have been most success- 

 ful ; the attendance has ranged from twenty to upward of fifty. 

 The interest manifested has been great, and it is hoped that many 

 young persons have been influenced toward the study of miner- 

 als and rocks. These excursions have been without expense to the 

 Section, except for stationery, etc. 



Some members of the Section, with the Conservator, and with the 

 assent of the Curators, are engaged in rectifying the labels of the 

 specimens in the Academy's collection, quite a number of which 

 were found to have either wrong localities, or localities too indefi- 

 nite. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the past year much important work has been accom- 

 plished in the re-arrangement of the Ornithological collections, and 

 they are now in an excellent state of preservation. 



The renovation of the exhibition collection of birds has been 

 begun in accordance with the plan outlined in last year's report, 

 and with the assistance of the Academy's able taxidermist, Mr. D. 

 N. McCadden, very satisfactory progress has been made. 



The collection of North American birds has been entirely 

 remounted on walnut or stained stands, and re-labelled in accord- 

 ance with the American Ornithologists' Union check-list, while the 

 habitat of each species also appears on the label, which Avill prove 

 of material aid to those who consult the collection. The whole 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



number of specimens contained in this collection is over 1,400, rep- 

 resenting upward of 600 species and sub-species of North Ameri- 

 can birds. JSIany of the specimens needed to render the collection 

 complete are contained in the study series of skins, and examples 

 of these will be mounted during the ensuing year. 



The collection of Ostriches and Apteryges has also been thoroughly 

 renovated during the year, and the specimensof Tyrant Flycatchers 

 in the museum, numbering about 450, have been identified and 

 catalogued, representations of all the principal forms having been 

 remounted and the duplicates reduced to skins for the study series. 



Any further work in this direction, however, is rendered impossible 

 by the lack of suitable cases of drawers in which the collection of skins 

 may be safely preserved. All the available space is now crowded, 

 and it is absolutely impossible to find accommodation for the addi- 

 tions that are being received. In view of the importance of this 

 need, it is to be hoped that the necessary cases will soon be supplied. 



The study collection of skins, now numbering about 6,000 speci- 

 meus, has at last been catalogued and entirely re-labelled, which 

 adds greatly to its usefulness. Over 3,000 specimens have been 

 catalogued and labelled during the past year. For valuable 

 assistance in this connection the Conservator is indebted to Mr. 

 Samuel Wright. 



The collection of birds' eggs has also been temporarily rear- 

 ranged, and the North American specimens separated and re-labelled. 

 Many valuable ornithological specimens have been received during 

 the year. 



Foremost among these is a collection of 46 Arctic birds, secured 

 by the North Greenland Expedition, and a collection of 76 speci- 

 mens brought back by the Peary Relief Expedition. These 

 together with the Arctic birds secured by the West Greenland 

 Expedition of 1891, form probably the finest collection of Green- 

 land birds in this country. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has continued to add 

 to the beautiful series of nests and eggs of Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey birds which w'as presented last year, and the collection has 

 doubled in size, containing at the present time, 80 nests and sets of 

 eggs. Quite a number of groups of birds have been prepared to 

 accompany the nests, which serve to render the collection more 

 attractive and instructive. The Philadelphia Ziiological Society 

 has presented numerous valuable birds, which have been mounted 




502 



PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



or preserved as skins, and further donations have been received 

 from Dr. S. G. Dixon, I. N. DeHaven, D. N. McCadden and others. 



It is gratifying to note the increased interest in Ornithology 

 among the members of the Academy, due to the efforts of the Sec- 

 tion and the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, as well as the 

 appreciation by the visiting public of the improvements and addi- 

 tions in the Ornithological departments of the museum. 



At the annual meeting of the Section, held December 19th, 1892, 

 the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 



Director, ...... Spencer Trotter, M. D. 



Vice-Director, . 

 Recorder, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, 

 Conservator, 



Rei 



George Spencer Morris. 

 Stewardson Brown, 

 Charles E. Ridenour. 

 Isaac C. Martin dale. 

 Witmer Stone. 



spectfully submitted, 



WiTMER Stone, 



Conservator, 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that owing to his participation in the organization and accomplish- 

 ment of the Peary Relief Expedition — a duty with which he was 

 entrusted by the Council of the Academy and the Academy — he 

 has been able to give but little, in fact, scarcely any, attention to 

 his department during the past year. It is believed, however, that 

 this deficiency in attention has been more than compensated by 

 the valuable collections which have resulted from the Greenland 

 Expedition, and which touch largely the departments of geology 

 and paleontology. Of such collections may be mentioned the series 

 of blocks of Ovifak iron, the fossils of the elevated terraces of 

 Greenland, the fossil fishes from Ameralik Fjord, and above all the 

 extensive series of Cretaceous and Miocene plant remains from 

 Atanekerdluk. The fossil fishes, the first of the class that have 

 been obtained in the region, are but few in number, but advice 

 from one of the Governors of South Greenland, under date of Sep- 

 tember 17th, indicates that a box-full has been directed to the 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



Academy ; doubtless this supplemental collection will be received 

 in due time. Only a part of the Arctic collections has been thus 

 far classified and labeled, the present limitation of space in the 

 Academy's working rooms rendering the process of arrangement a 

 laborious one. 



Among other valuable additions to the department made during 

 the year are an extensive series of Tertiary fossils from the Atlantic 

 and Gulf borders of the United States, for which the Academy is 

 indebted to Mr. Joseph Willcox ; a collection, comprised in 89 trays, 

 of sub-Carboniferous crinoids from the Burlington Group, purchased 

 by the Curators from Mr. F. L. Sarmiento ; and an interesting 

 series of Cambro-Silurian fossils, presented by the late Dr. J. P. 

 Lundy, from the region of Lake St. John, Canada. 



No relief to the crowded condition of the Academy's collections 

 in the department of invertebrate paleontology has thus far been 

 found possible, and probably no marked change in this direction 

 will be effected until the occupancy by the Academy of the new 

 building, w^hich is now in course of erection. 



No lectures in this professorial department have been delivered 



during the year, and the undersigned regrets his failure to finish the 



preparation of the course which had been intended for the autumn 



season, and upon which he hopes to enter during the coming month. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF THE LOWER 

 INYERTEBRATA. 



The Professor of the Lower Invertebrata respectfully reports that 

 during the past year he has delivered two lectures, one on "Green- 

 land," and one on " Death from a Zoological Point of View." 



The additions to the museum are noteworthy. They include 

 the Crustaceans and Echinoderms collected by the West Greenland 

 Expedition of 1891, together with twelve very fine specimens of 

 Antedoii eschrichti, (a crinoid ), collected by the Peary Relief 

 Expedition of 1892 ; a collection of Sponges from the Mexican 

 Expedition of 1890, and sixteen jars of Echinoderms collected by 

 William J. Fox in Jamaica. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



There have been further presented about twenty-five species of 

 Crustacea mainly from our coasts and from Jamaica. 



During the year, work has been carried on almost exclusively in 

 the carcinological collection, the specimens having been re-labeled 

 and a catalogue prepared, which will be published in the next 

 volume of the Proceedings. At present all the alcoholic and dried 

 specimens of the Stomatopoda and Macroura have been examined as 

 far as the Homaridea, and the dried specimens through the Loricata. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Sharp, 



Professor of the Lower Invertebrata. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



Owing to the continued illness of the Curator of the " William S. 

 Vaux Collections," Mr. Jacob Binder, I am unable to state what 

 additions he had made to the collection during the earlier part of 

 the year, but since I have been acting as his assistant I have pur- 

 chased 41 specimens of minerals, several of them being of special 

 beauty. 



The rooms have been constantly open to the public during the 

 latter part of the year, an attache of the Academy being in attend- 

 ance, resulting, it is believed in an increased interest in the science 

 of Mineralogy. 



The collections are in good condition, but not in a suitable room 

 for exhibition, as the minerals in the greater number of the cases 

 can be seen only by gas light, which is to be regretted. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Acting Curator. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



The Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws presented the 

 following which was ordered to be printed : — 



REPORT ON THE JESSUP FUND. 



#•_ 



At a business meeting of the Academy, March 27, 18B0, the fol- 

 lowing letter was read and referred to a special committee, of which 

 Messrs. William S. Vaux, Joseph Leidy, Isaac Lea, Robert Bridges 

 and Joseph Jeanes were the members : 



Philadelphia. March 6, 1860. 



Isaac Lea, Esq., President of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia : 



Dear Sir: — The undersigned, children of the late Augustus E. 

 Jessup, believing that it was his intention to leave a sum of money 

 to the Academy of Natural Sciences, for the purposes stated below, 

 and desiring to carry out what we have cause to think were his 

 intentions, propose to pay to the Academy the sum of one hundred 

 and twenty dollars per annum, to be applied to its publication fund ; 

 and the further sum of four hundred and eighty dollars per annum 

 to be used for the support of one or more deserving poor young man 

 or men who may desire to devote the whole of his or their time and 

 energies to the study of the natural sciences. 



The above sums we propose to pay as long as we feel our circum- 

 stances to be such as will warrant our doing so, and we look forward 

 to investing in trust, at some not distant time, the principal of the 

 sums named for the purpose of creating a perpetual fund for the 



above named uses. 



A. D. Jessup, 



E. A. Jessup, 



Clara J. Moore. 



At a meeting of the Academy for business April 24, 1860, " the 

 committee on the communication of Mr. A. D. Jessup, Mr. E. A. 

 Jessup and Mrs. Clara J. Moore, presented a report accepting the 

 trust, recommending that the President and Curators be constituted 

 a perpetual committee under the direction of the Academy to carry 

 out the intentions of the late Augustus E. Jessup as expressed in 

 said communication ; and that a copy of the publications of the 

 Academy be presented to each of the above named children of the 

 late Mr. Jessup, beginning with the volumes now in progress, which 

 report was adopted and the committee discharged." 



At the annual meeting of the Academy, Dec. 25, 1860, the com- 

 mittee on the Jessup Fund reported, July 1, that the first payment 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892- 



was made, $60 to the publication fund, and §240 to the Jessup 

 Fund. 



William M. Gabb was appointed Jessup student from June 1, 

 and C. C. Abbott from August 1, each to receive twenty dollars a 

 month. 



The rules for the administration of the fund, devised by the com- 

 mittee, were adopted as follows : 



1. Applications for benefits from the Jessup Fund shall be made 

 in writing to the committee (every three months). 



2. Benefits from the fund shall not be received by the same per- 

 son for a longer period than two years without the unanimous con- 

 sent of the committee. 



3. The beneficiaries shall devote one-half of their time, under 

 the direction of the committee, to the study and management of 

 the museum of the Academy. 



4. Each beneficiary shall receive twenty dollars monthly by an 

 order from the committee on the Treasurer. 



Dr. Leidy, at the meeting of the Academy March 9, 1869, 

 announced that the trustees of the Jessup Fund would receive 

 applications of candidates for its benefits. 



May 25, 1869, the Academy unanimously adopted a revised code 

 of by-laws, in which, Chapter iv. Art. 1, it is enacted that "The 

 Council shall determine who shall be beneficiaries of the Jessup 

 Fund." 



Since that date no legislation on the subject has been had. 



From the date of acceptance of this trust until October, 1892, 54 

 young men and one young woman have been beneficiaries of the 

 fund. Seven of the number have filled or are now filling profess- 

 orial chairs satisfactorily. 



Mrs, Clara J. Moore, November, 1888, generously added 85,000 

 to the fund. In a letter to the Chairman of the Committee on 

 By-laws, August 19, 1892, she wrote: "As my father made no 

 mention of young women, I prefer to give the same amount that he 

 gave to be applied on the same terms to the support of one or more 

 young women who may desire to devote the whole of their time and 

 energies to the study of the natural sciences. 



" While I think the amount of twenty dollars a month very 

 little, I do not wish to influence in any way the decision of those 

 who are more competent than I am to judge what the objections 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



may be to giving more, but I would suggest that thirty dollars 

 should be the limit." 



Rules for the administration of the Jessup Trust. 



1. Candidates for the honor of a place on the list of Jessup stu- 

 dents must be residents of the United States, of not less than 20 

 (twenty) nor more than 25 (twenty-five) years of age, and habit- 

 ually resident within fifty miles of the Academy. But, on the 

 recommendation of the Board of Curators, the Council may appoint 

 a candidate who is less than twenty years of age. 



2. The Board of Curators shall examine eveiy candidate, and 

 ascertain his age and place of birth ; his moral and intellectual 

 character ; his worthiness in all respects of the honor of being 

 appointed a Jessup student in the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, in order that he may devote his whole time and ener- 

 gies to the study of the natural sciences under the directions of the 

 curators of the Academy. 



3. Every candidate who, after examination, may be favorably 

 reported to the Council by the curators, may be appointed a Jessup 

 student on probation during one month, and if the curators report 

 that the probation has been satisfactory, the term will be extended 

 to two years, and may be continued for two additional years at the 

 discretion of the Council. 



4. A Jessup student shall receive from the Jessup fund toward 

 his support not more than twenty dollars a month, nor during more 

 than four years. 



5. No member of the Academy shall be a Jessup student, and no 

 Jessup student shall be eligible to membership in the Academy. 



6. Every Jessup student who has had the honor to satisfactorily 

 complete a four years course of study in the Academy shall receive 

 a certificate thereof, signed by the President and curators of the 

 Academy. 



7. Jessup students shall, in their studies and the occupation of 

 their time, conform to such rules as the curators may prescribe from 

 time to time. 



8. Written applications to be admitted to the benefit of the Jessup 



Fund will be received at any time and considered by the Board of 



Curators. 



The whole is submitted. 



Very respectfully, 



W. S. W. RUSCHENHERGER, 



Chairman of Committee on By-Laws. 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee, to serve during the year 1893, was read with the follow- 

 ing result : — 



. Isaac J. AVistar. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D. 



Thomas Meehan. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. 



Isaac C. Martindale. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. 



S. G. Dixon, M.D. 



J. T. Rothrock, M.D. 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, . 



Recording Secretary, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Librarian, . 

 Curators, 



Councillor/^ 

 years. 



to serve three 



Finance Committee, 



Uselma C. Smith. 

 Charles E. Smith. 

 Geo. A. Rex, M.D. 

 William Sellers. 

 Charles P. Perot. 

 Charles Morris. 

 Charles E. Smith. 

 Uselma C. Smith. 

 William Sellers. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1892. 



MEMBERS. 



January 26. — James D. Winsor, H. H. Furness, Jr., Theodore P. 

 Matthews, Thomas C. Price, Charles W. Johnson, Joseph W. 

 Hawley, A. Jahn, James S. de Benneville, Charlemagne Tower, Jr., 

 Joseph P. Remington, Charles Liebeck, Benjamin Chew Tilghman, 

 J. E. Ives. 



February 23. — Walter Horstmann, S. Emlen Meigs, John N. 

 Hutchinson, Charles S. Boyer, A.M., Simon J. Martin. 



March 29.— Frank Woodbury, M.D., H. G. Bryant, Lucy 

 Langdon Williams, General John Markoe, Jean Fraley Hallowell, 

 Daniel Allen Knight, Jr., Thomas Wistar, M.D. 



April 26.— F. H. Giddings. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



May 31. — J. F. Sachse, Henry Redraoud, M.D. 



June 28. — Francis M. Brooke, Henry Wheleu, Hunter Ewing, 

 C. A. Hamann, M.D. 



August 30. — William Bringhurst, M.D. 



September 27.— M. V. Ball, M.D., George S. Wolff, J. Liberty 

 Tadd. 



October 25. — John A. Shulze, George Vaux, Jr., Col. Ralph F. 

 Cullinan, Thomas Earle White, Philip P. Calvert, Aldrich I. 

 Pennock. George M. Woodward, Mary Vaux, Samuel Castner, Jr., 

 John T. M. Cardeza, M.D., Ann May Whartenby, William L. 

 DuBois. 



November 29. — Charles Coulter, William DeCou, Henry C. Ford, 

 William E. Meehan, Ann W. Pearsall, Mary Pearsall, William A.. 

 Shryock, Edward S. Scrantou, Ellen W. Longstreth, Joseph G. 

 Harrison, Edward Coles, William Wynne Wister, Jr. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



February 23. — Howard Ayers, of Milwaukee, Wis. 



March 29. — Karl Claus, of Vienna, Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, 

 Mich. 



May 31. — Edward J. Miers, of London, England. 



August 30. — Carlos Berg, of Buenos Ayres. 



November 29. — John Baird, of Manchester, C. Lloyd Morgan, of 

 Bristol, England. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1892. 



ARCH,i;oLOGY, Ethnology, etc. 



J. D. Winsor. Aboriginal implement from Islesboro, Maine. 



C. B. Moore. Shells from Indian mounds of Florida. 



J. P. Lundy, M. D. Shells from columns of temple of Jupiter Serapis, Puzzuoli, 



Italy, and piece of the floor of same ; piece of mosaic from Lake Achelon, 



Italy. 

 Mexican Expedition 1890. Pottery from Cave of Calcehtok, Yucatan. 

 Miss Verhoeff. Eskimo Timiak from McCormick Bay, Greenland. Obtained 



by John M. Verhoeff on Academy's North Greenland Expedition, under 



Lieut. R. E. Peary. 



Mammali.\. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of Cynoctphalus sp., Pka- 

 cochatus cethiopicus. Bison bison (calf), Solenodon cubanus, Belideus sciureiis, 

 Cafiromys pilorides, Cariacus rufinus, Cercocebus collaris, Ateles vdlerosus, 

 Aleles geoffroyi, Cercopithecus mona, Macacus radiatus, Macacus erytlwcEus, 

 Nyctipithecus trivirgatus, Sciurus badging, (2 specimens), Synetheres nielan- 

 urits, (2 specimens) , Macacus cynomolgtis, Felis rufiis, (female and two kittens) ; 

 mounted skeletons of Cercocebus fuliginosus, Co7inochetes gorgoii, Belideus 

 sciureus ; disarticulated skeletons of Se?)inopithecus entellus, Ateles vellerosus, 

 Cariacus rufinus, Felis 7-ufus, Helarctos eurypsilus, Solenodon cubanus, Nasua 

 narica ; brain of Cercocebtis fuliginosus. 



Saml. G. Dixon, M. D. Horns of Indian Buffalo; mounted specimens of Felis 

 rufus, Monroe Co., Pennsylvania; Opossum with three young; Eskimo dog 

 " Alika " used on Lieut. Peary's North Greenland Expedition. 



C. A. Bradenburg. Mounted specimen and skeleton of Chrysothrix lunulatus. 

 skin of Macacus erythrceus. 



H. C. Chapman, M. D. Disarticulated skeletons of Orang-outang, Chimpanzee, 

 Panther, Otter, Dog, Opossum, HowHng Monkey, Marmoset, Porcupine, 

 Rabbit, Armadillo, Prairie Dog ; skulls of Deer and Noctilio ; alcoholic spec- 

 imens of Chimpanzee, Ring-tailed Lemur, Ant-eater. 



H. G. Bryant. Skulls of Lutra canadensis and Ursus americanus. Grand River, 

 Labrador ; five Weasel and two Squirrel skins from Labrador. 



Rev. R. H. Nassau. Three brains and skulls of the Gorilla, from Kangwe, Ogove 

 River, West Africa. 



Miss Virginia Maitland. Mounted specimen of Scalops aquaticus. 



D. N. McCadden. Skull of Ursus americanus. 



Benj. Sharp, Ph. D. Three alcoholic specimens of Noctilio leporinus, from 

 Trinidad; and alcoholic specimen of Vespertilio nigricans and Saccopleryx 

 leptura from Tobago. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



Raymond Kester. Two mounted specimens of ArvicoUi riparius from Delaware 

 Co., Pa. 



Herbert Brown. Mounted specimen of Vesperugo serotinus ftiscKs from Phila- 

 delphia. 



West Greenland Expedition, 1891. Skull of Vulpes lagopus, McCormick Bay. 



Birds. 



Philadelphia Zoological Society. Mounted specimen of Rhea atnericatia ; skins 

 of Crax fasciolaris, Griis americana, Xanthotira luxuosa cyanocapilla, Gottra 

 coronata, Phasiatms reevesii, Eclectus roratus ; mounted skeletons of Palame- 

 dea cornuta, Pelecamis fusciis ; disarticulated skeletons of Grics australasiaua 

 and Grus americana ; egg of Aqiiila macidata. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. 17 nests, 13 mounted birds and 14 sets of 

 eggs from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, to be incorporated in the " Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club Collection." 



Peary Relief Expedition, 1892. 76 bird skins representing 21 species, and 102 

 eggs representing 15 species, all from West Greenland. 



North Greenland Expedition (Lieut. R. E. Peary in command.) 46 bird skins 

 representing 17 species, from the vicinity of McCormick Bay, Greenland. 



I. C. Martindale. Two skins of Urinator iniber, from New Jersey. 



I. N. DeHaven. Skin of albino Ammodramus caitdacutus, Atlantic City, N. J. 



H. C. Chapman, M. D. Skulls of Hynchops, Callus ^nd four other birds. 



D. N. McCadden. Two skins of Pelecanus fuscus ; eight skins of South Amer- 

 ican birds ; skin of Elanoides forficatus. 



H. Skinner, M. D., and Philip Laurent. Three skins, six nests and three sets of 

 eggs of Junco hyemalis caroliiicnsrs, from Mitchell Co., North Carolina. 



Samuel Wright. Alcoholic specimen of Chicken wiih four legs. 



Mrs. F. Meehan Burns. Malformed egg of common Fowl. 



Samuel G. Dixon. Skin of Scolecopkagus carolinus, from Virginia. 



Purchased. Twenty-six bird skins from southern United States; mounted spec- 

 imens of Meleagris gallopavo, Perry Co., Pennsylvania, and Syrniutn occiden- 

 talc, Tacoma, Washington. 



Reptiles .\nd Batrachi.ans. 



Philadelphia Zoological Society. Alcoholic specimens of Python sebce, Tupinam- 



bis tequixin, Atnphiutna tridactyla, Pelophilus niadagascarensis, Coronella 



phocarum ; skull of Testudo polyphemus (?) 

 Mexican Expedition 1890. Two jars of lizards from Mexico; eggs of Iguana 



( Ctenosaujus cyclut oides.) 

 Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Alcoholic specimens of Eulunia sirtalis and Heteredon 



platyrhinus from Nantucket, Mass. 

 H. C. Chapman, M. D. Skeleton of Frog, and skulls of a Terrapin and two 



lizards. 

 I. C. Martindale. Alcoholic specimen oi Dromiius cal/ilamus, from Jamaica. 

 Benjamin W. Richards. Mounted specimen of Chelydra serpentina, from New 



Jersey. 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892, 



George Bond. Three jars of snakes and one of lizards. 

 Witmer Stone. Cletnntys vmhlenbergii (alcoholic), Delaware Co., Pa. 

 Miss M. E. Lyndall. Desmognathus fuscus (alcoholic), Overbrook, Pa. 

 H. A. Piisbry. Clemmys gutlatus (alcoholic), Jamesburg, N. J. 

 J. T. B. Ives. Heteredo7i platyrhinus (alcoholic), Cape May Point, N. J. 

 H. Skinner, M. D., and Philip Laurent. Amblystoma piinctatum (alcoholic), 

 Mitchell Co., North Carolina. 



C. R. Johnson. Skin of Red Racer. 



U. C. Smith. Anolis principalis {z\co\io\\c) , Florida. 

 Purchased. Skin of Python sebce. 



Fishes. 



Smithsonian Institution. Alcoholic specimens of Myctophum reviiger, M. 



pioictatum, M. mtiUeri, Stenobrachius coccoi and Nannobrachium macdonaldi. 

 West Greenland Expedition, 1891. Two jars of fishes from Cape Breton and 



McCormick Bay. 

 Mexican Expedition, 1890. Hippocampus from Silam, Yucatan. 

 H. C. Chapman, M. D. Skulls of Cod, Pike and Perch and teetli of three species 



of fish. 

 W. J. Fox. Prionotus palmipes (alcoholic), from Townsend's Inlet, N. J. 

 T. D. Harvey and Jos. L. Grauer. Mounted specimen of Marine Sun Fish 



[Mola rotunda), from Anglesea, N. J. 

 Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Three jars of fishes, Nantucket, Mass. 

 Thos. A. Walker. Chilomycterus geometricus (alcoholic). 

 Capt. Wm. Wyndham. Skull of .^n'«J ( .?) from Surinam. 

 J. E. Huffington. Rostrum of Saw Fish, fromGulf of Mexico. 



Crustacea. 



West Greenland Expedition, 1891. Seven jars of Crustacea. 



Benj. Sharp, Ph. D. Hermit Crab, from Naples; Argulus sp. and five jars of 



Crustacea, from Nantucket ; Hippa emerita, Lepas anserifera, Balanus. 



ebitrneiis, and three jars of other Crustacea, from the New Jersey coast. 

 Frederick Stearns. Pycnogonuni steartisi Ives, types, San Diego, California. 

 U. C. Smith. Penaus setiferus and Persephone punctata. Cape Canaveral, 



Florida. 

 J. S. Witmer, Jr. Branchipus vernalis (alcoholic), Lancaster Co., Pa. 

 W. J. Fox. Callinectes hastatus, Cymothoa sp., from Townsend's Inlet, N. J. ; 



8 jars of Crustacea from Jamaica. 



D. N. McCadden. Platyonicus ocellatus, Cape May, N. J. 



Sister E. Marguerite. Lepas pascicularis (alcoholic), Cape May, N. J. 

 W. Libbey, Jr. Ocypoda arenaria (alcoholic), Cape May Point, N. J. 

 Miss M. A. Schively. Anoplodactylus lentus, Woods Holl, Mass. 

 J. E. Ives. Limulus polyphemus, abnormal specimen. Cape May Point, N. J. ; 

 two jars of Crustacea from Atlantic City, N. J. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



ECHINODERMS, WORMS. CORALS, ETC. 



West Greenland Expedition, 1891. Seven jars and four trays of echinoderms, 

 one jar of insects and one of worms, from McCormick Bay, Greenland. 



Mexican Expedition, 1890. Twenty-three jars of spiders, scorpions, etc., from 

 Mexico and Yucatan ; collection of dried sponges from Yucatan; two trays of 

 corals from Vera Cruz. 



Capt. John Powell. TAyraster serpentarius, from Vera Cruz. 



H. C. Chapman, M. D. Arbacia punctulata and Cliona sulphurea (alcoholic), 

 Eschara and serpuloid tubes, Atlantic City, N. T. 



W. J. Fox. Fifteen jars of echinoderms (alcoholic), from Jamaica; worm 

 tubes from Townsend's Inlet, N. J. 



Frederick Stearns. Two trays of echinoderms from the Sandwich Islands. 



G. S. Lamson. Anodytes atnericanus. 



Benj. Sharp, M. D. Bipalium nianubriatuvi Sharp, type. 



Peary Relief Expedition 1892. Twelve jars of Antedon eschrichti from McCor- 

 mick Bay, Greenland. 



C. C. Febiger. Dactylocalyx subghbosus. 



Miss M. A. Schively. Amaroecium stellatum, from Woods IJoll, Mass. 



Miss M. L. Myrick. Chalina oculata, from Nantucket, Mass. 



U. C. Smith. Three trays of echinoderms from Cape Canaveral, Florida. 



Conchological Section. Five trays of echinoderms and three trays of other 

 marine invertebrates from New Zealand. 



Joseph Willcox. Sponge, Echinaster spimtloswn and Litidia claikrala, from 

 Florida. 



Recent Mollusca. 



American Association of Conchologists presented through John H. Campbell, 



President, 443 trays of American shells. 

 F. L. Billinghurst ( in exchange ). Thirty-four species of marine shells from 



Australia. 

 A. P. Brown. Five species of fresh-water shells from New Jersey. 

 Dr. H. C. Chapman. Anomia and Cohimbella (alcoholic), from Atlantic City. 

 T. D. A. Cockerell. Four species of marine and fresh water shells from Jamaica 



and Caymen Island, and types of Helix vendreyesiaiia Ckll. 

 Conchological Section. Forty species of shells new to the collection. 

 S. Culin. Two species, Mitra and Aiicillaria. 

 Geo. W. Dean. Boiirciera helicinifoTmis Pfr., from Ecuador. 

 John Ford. Nine species of shells new to the collection. 

 Prof. F. W. Hutton. Twelve species of marine shells from New Zealand. 

 W. W. Jefferis. Unio and Faludina, from Fort Edward, N. Y. 

 Chas. W. Johnson. Two species of Acnnthoplaira. 

 Dr. O. F. von Mollendorfif (in exchange). Thirty-five species of land shells from 



the Philippine Islands ; 20 species of Helix in alcohol. 

 Clarence R. Moore. A very large collection of Vivipara from the mounds and 



streams near Lake George, Fla. 



34 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892 



H. A. Pilsbry. Twenty-five trays of shells and 10 bottles of alcoholic mollusca ; 



Twenty species of mollusks from Tannersville, Catskill Mountains. 

 J. B. Quintard. One valve of Unto quintardii, the type specimen figured on PI. 



VII of this volume. 

 Geo. D. Ried. Limtiiea palustris and Goniobasis virgiiiica from Deep River, 



Connecticut. 

 Jose N. Rovirosa. Twenty-four species of land and fresh water mollusks from 



Tabasco, Mexico. (For list see p. 338). 

 Dr. B. Sharp. Four jaws marine mollusks from Nantucket. 

 Karl Sharp. Aporrhais occidentalis, Nantucket. 

 U. C. Smith. Three species of Hydrobiidce from Florida. 

 L. H. Streng. Nine species from Panama; two from the Sandwich Islands. 



E. G. Vanatta. Ten species of Helix, Siorinia and Zoiiites from Pennsylvania 

 and New Jersey. 



T. W. Vaughan. Fifteen species of fresh-water shells from Louisiana. 



G. E. and A. H.Verrill, Cyclotiis amethystiiius, Helicina veliitina and Vagin- 



uliis pwiclatissimns, from Dominica, 

 Robert Walton. Four species of land shells from Roxborough, Pa. 

 Joseph Willcox. A large number of recent and fossil mollusks of the United 



States. 

 H. W. Winkley. Four trays of mollusks from Maine and Prince Edward 



Island. 

 G. W. Wright. Thirty species of marine shells from New Zealand. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Mexican Expedition, 1890- Fragment of tooth oi Elephas priviigenins, Valley of 

 Tequixquiac. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Shark's teeth (Miocene), South Carolina ; Diplomystns 

 httmilis, from Green River, Wyoming. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. Two molars of Eqiiiis fratennis; Shark's teeth and four 

 trays of Mamnialian remains from Bolton Mines, South Carolina. 



J. E. Ives. Patella of Eqiius major from Camden, N. J. 



J. P. Lesley. Vertebrate remains from Triassic coal beds of Egypt, North Caro- 

 lina. 



F. M, Naglee. Teeth of Carcharodon megalodoit, South Carolina. 



H. G. Woodman. Slab of Triassic shale, with foot prints and ripple marks, 

 French town, N. J. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Conchological Section. Nine trays of fossil Helices from Miocene of Germany. 

 Rev. J. P. Lundy. Twenty-five trays of Cambro-silurian invertebrate fossils from 



Lake St. John, Quebec, Canada. 

 Homer Squyer. Hemiasttr hump/ireysaniis. Cretaceous, Montana. 

 K. A. Peneeke, M. D. Three trays of fossil land shells, from Steiermark, 

 Germany. Lewis Woolman. ' Fossiliferous pebbles from Barnegat, N. J. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



W.J. Fox. Fossil corals from Jamaica. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Twelve trays of Cretaceous fossils, from Farmingdale, N. J. 



Joseph Willcox. Sixteen trays of invertebrate fossils. 



Saml. G. Dixon, M. D. Fossil corals fiom Bolton Mines, South Carolina. 



Purchased from F. L. Sarmiento. Eighty-nine trays of fossil crinoids and four 



of other invertebrate fossils, principally from Burlington Co., Iowa; seven 



trays of cretaceous fossils from Brazil. 



Plants. 



W. G. Warden and Chas. E, Smith. Four hundred and twenty-eight species of 

 phanerogamic plants, sixteen lichens and twenty-six fungi, collected by 

 J. Bornmiiller in Ponlus and Galatia, Asia Minor, in 1890. 



Charles Schaeffer, M. D. Hough's American Woods, Part II., embracing twenty- 

 five species in twenty six sets of sections, with descriptions, keys, index and 

 title page. 



In exchange for duplicate set of Sullivant's Musci Alleghenicnses : — Two hundred 

 and seventy-five species of plants collected by Dr. Thomas Morong in Central 

 Paraguay in 1888-90. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture, Botanical Division. Twenty-four species of 

 Hepaticae, collected in Georgia and Florida by Prof. L. M. Underwood ; thir- 

 teen species of Hepaticae, collected in California by the same; two species of 

 Peronospora, from District of Columbia and Ilhnois. 



Prof. N. L. Britton, Columbia College Herbarium. Seventy-one species of plants 

 collected in British Guiana, by Jenman in 1838. ' 



Prof. Jose N. Rovirosa. Fifty-one species of plants collected by him in Tabasco 

 and Chiapas, Mexico. 



Edwin Faxon, Jamaica Plains, Mass. Series of specimens illustrative of the 

 Sphagna of New England, consisting of seventeen species in twenty-seven 

 forms and varieties, supplementing series received in 1891. 



Thomas Meehan. Twenty-one species of plants collected by Mrs. Meehan at 

 Lake Worth, Florida ; one hundred and thirty-five species of Australian plants, 

 and two marine Algse, received from Baron Ferdinand von Miiller; seventy- 

 nine species of plants, mostly cultivated and exotic. 



J. Bernard Brinton, M. D. Twenty-five species of plants collected on Merritt's 

 Island, E. Florida, by A. A. Baldwin in 1892; eight species mostly from 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



W. W. Jefferis. Ten species of phanerogams and feins, and thirty-six mosses 

 from the Swiss Alps ; twenty species of plants from the Swiss Alps. 



Roberts Le Boutillier. Cataselutn viridi-Jlavtim H, a cultivated orchid, native 

 of Mexico : Cypripeditim bellatulum, a cultivated orchid, native of Asia. 



John H. Redfield. One hundred and sixty-four species of plants collected by Dr. 

 Thomas Morong on the Pilcomayo River, Paraguay, in 1888-90; ten species 

 of North American plants ; thirteenth and fourteenth Decades of Under- 

 wood's Hepaticae Americanas ; polished section of the wood of Cercotarpus 

 hdifolius (Mountain Mahogany so-called), collected in Utah by the late Dr. 

 C. C. Parry ; two hundred and sixty-six species of plants collected by C. G. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



Pringle, in the Mexicanprovincesof Jalisco, San Luis Potosi and Michoacan in 

 1891. 



University of Pennsylvania, through Prof. Joseph T. Rothrock. One hundred and 

 forty-eight species of plants, collected by him in Jamaica and the Bahama 

 Islands in the winter of 1890-1891. 



Edward Rand and John H. Redfield. Thirty-one species of plants from Mount 

 Desert, Maine, continuing the series illustrative of the flora of that island. 



S. N. Rhoads. Thirty-one species of plants, collected by him in the Santa 

 Catalina Mountains of Arizona, June, 1891. 



Thomas Meehan,John H. Redfield and others. Four hundred and sixty-one species 

 of plants collected by P. Sintenis in Asia Minor, Armenia and Kurdistan, in 

 1888-1890, determined by Stapf and Haussknecht; three hundred and 

 thirty-seven species of plants collected by Sintenis and Bornmiiller in Macedo- 

 nia and Greece in 1891. 



West Greenland Expedition 1891, under charge of Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 

 Twenty-seven species of Mosses, collected by Dr. W. A. Burk, and determined 

 by Mrs. N. L. Britton and Messrs. Brotherus and Warnstoff. 



Ellis and Everhart. Twenty-eighth Century of North American Fungi, received 

 in exchange for duplicate earlier Centuries, from Estate of Dr. George A. 

 Martin. , 



Benj. Sharp, M. p. Fruit of Gru-gru Palm i^Aiphanes corallina Wendl.), 



from Tobago, W. I. ; Spines or excrescences from a tree in the same 

 island. 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. Photograph of a gigantic Live Oak in Magno- 

 lia Cemetery, Charleston, S. C. 



Isaac C. Martindale. Abnormal growth of Polyporus liicidus, a fungus grown 

 under the floor of an old building at Black River Falls, Wisconsin, collected by 

 Dr. Lucy A. Armadale. 



A. C. W. Beecher, M. D. Capsule of a species of Martynia, probably M. lutea. 



Miss Nuttall. Seeds o^ Adenopeltis CoHigiiaya, inhabited by larva of Carpocapsa 

 saltatrix. 



Miss Maud G. Waring through Thomas Meehan. Seventy-one species of plants 

 from vicinity of Bloomfield, San Juan Co., New Mexico. 



Herbarium of Harvard University. Six hundred and ninety-two species of plants 

 from Estate of the late John Ball, President of the London Alpine Club, col- 

 lected for the most part in Southern Europe by himself. 



Geo. W. Holstein. Ten species of plants collected by him in the Staked Plains 

 of Texas. 



Prof. Thos. C. Porter. Eighteen species of plants from vicinity of Easton, Pa. 



T. S. Brandegee. Two hundred and sixty-eight species of plants collected by 

 him in the peninsula of Lower California, 1890 to 1892. 



Alexander McElwee. Cytisus scopariiis Link, from near Media, Pa. 



Mrs. Mary B. Conard. Brassavola acmilis Lindl. (?) a cultivated orchid, native of 

 Panama. 



Henry C. Chapman, M. D. Branch of Citrus irifoliaia L. with ripe fruit, from 

 Zoological Garden, Philadelphia. 




1892.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



Fossil Plants. 

 W. W. Jefferis. Arihrophyciis harlani, Niagara Falls, N. Y. 

 Minerals, Rocks, etc. 



W. W. Jefferis. Two large crystals of Muscovite, Pennsburg, Chester Co., Pa., 

 Hypersthene, Lake George, N. Y. ; Iron Pyrites, Falls of French Creek, Pa. ; 

 Drusy Quartz, Concord, Delaware Co., Pa. ; Diaspora, Chester, Mass. ; Quartz, 

 Lewis Co., N. Y. ; Siderite in Limonite, Center Co., Pa. ; mass of botryoidal 

 Quartz, Yellowstone Park ; nineteen trays of other minerals and rocks. 



Theodore D Rand. Randite, Frankford, Philadelphia; Native Magnet, Sugar- 

 town, Pa, ; limestone in serpentine, Copesville, Pa. ; Bau,\ite, Arkansas ; six- 

 teen trays of other minerals. 



H.G.Ives. Nodule of Pyrite, Germany; Actinolite, Delaware Co., Pa. ; Corun- 

 dum, pseudomorph after Spinel, Franklin, N. J. ; Alunogen, Philadelphia. 



U. C. Smith. Twelve trays of minerals ; Ringing Rock from Schwenksville, Pa. 



W. Kennedy. Fulgurites, S. Vineland, N. J. 



Joseph Willcox. Phosphorite, Cypress Co., Florida. 



Alfred O. Deshong. Three trays of minerals, Leiperville, Del. Co., Pa. 



Edwin MacMinn (in exchange). Eleven trays of minerals from Snake Hill, 

 Jersey City, N. J. 



S. W. Morton, M. D. Quartz, Rondout, N. Y. ; Banded Agate and Smoky 

 Quartz. 



Heirs of the late John Warner. Nine bottles of earths. 



West Greenland Expedition, 1891. One large meteorite (Tellurite? ) and four 

 small specimens from Ovifak, Greenland. 



D. N. McCadden. Iron concretion. Cape May, N. J. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Fragment of stalactite, from Tobago. 



C. S. Welles. Moonstone and limestone, from Media, Pa. 



W. W. Potts. Pyrite and Lignite, Montgomery Co., Pa. 



W. H. White. Massive Siderite, Montgomery Co., Pa. 



H. C. Borden. Chabasite and Bucholzite, from Philadelphia. 



H. C. Chapman, M. D. Fragment of boulder from Mt. Desert, and specimen of 

 clay. 



Abraham Meyer. Nine trays of rock specimens from Lycoming and Tioga Co., 

 Pa. 



A. E. Foote, M. D. Chrysoberyl, from Greenwood, Maine. 



John Ford. Bucholzite, Philadelphia. 



Joshua Hunt. Calcite, Avondale, Pa. 



Lewis Woolman. Concretions in clay, Camden, N. J. 



J. D. Winsor. Two weathered rocks, Islesboro, Me. 



F.Graff. Stibnite, Japan. 



Ignace Domeyko. Nine trays of minerals fiom Chili, Bolivia and the Argentine 

 Republic. 



H. G. Bryant. Labradorite, N. W. River, Labrador. 



Mrs. A. M. Thacher. Crystalized Stalactite, Weirs Cave, Virginia ; and Quartz 

 Crystals, Middlesex, Herkimer Co., N. Y. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1892. 



J. E. Richardson. Joesite, from Trondhjem, Norway. 



Microscopy, etc. 



Miss Gertrude J. Kenderdine. Microscope and complete outfit ; dissecting micro- 

 scope and 100 slides. 



Christian Febiger. Collection of about 10,000 slides of Diatoms, and specimens 

 of diatomaceous earths, made by Col. Christian Febiger. 




INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 

 1892. 



Acanthias 



Acanthinula 



Acavus 



Accipiter 



Acerat herium 



Acipenser 



Acipenseridaj 



Acris 



Acrosoma 



Acusta 



Adelonycteris 



Admestina 



Aegialitis 105, 113, 



Aegista 214, 



Aelurodon 



Aeschrodomus 



Aetobatidae 



Aetobatis 



Agalena 



Agalenidse 14, 



Agancus 



Agelaius 108, 



Agriochoeritiffi 



Agriochcerus 414, 



Agroeca 



Ajaja 



Albacora 



Alle 



Allodiscus 



Allognatbus 304, 



Alopias 



Alopiidae 



Alosa 243, 



Amaurobius 



Ambloctonidae 



Ambloctonus 292, 



Ambly poda 



Amblystoma 



Ammodramus 109, 112, 



Ampelita.,., 



Amphicyon 



Amphidozotherium 



Amphilestes 



Amphioxus 



Amphispiza 



Ampullaria 



Amsonia 



Amynodon 



234 ' Anacodon 300 



396 Anaptomorphus 212, 418 



391 Anarta 158 



114 Anas 101, 112 



431 Anchippus 326 



241 Anchitherium 326, 411 



241 Ancyloceras 141 



333 Anguilla 244 



49 Anguillidit 244 



393 Anisonchus 428 



217 Anodonta 339 



78 Anoglypta 40O, 403 



150 Anthias 261 



393 Antrostomus 106 



425 AnypluTjna 22 



402 Aphelocoma 119 



240 Apbelops 432 



240 Apocynacea? 162 



27 Apogon 261 



23 Apogonidse 261 



165 Aquila 114 



120 Aralia 377 



434 Araliacete 166 



434 Arconaia 132 



23 Arctictis 426 



101 Arctocyon 292, 420, 421 



256 Arctocyonidii; 292-298, 420 



146 Ardea 102, 113 



402 Arenaria 105 



395 Argiopa 49 



233 Argynnis 157 



233 Argyrodes 31 



244 Argyroepeira 50 



29 Arianta 392 



292 Artiodactyla 433 



312 Arvicola 407 



439 Asclepiadace;¥ 162 



332 Aster 384 



152 Astia 78 



404 Atherina 252 



425 Atherinidfe 252 



424 An\dx 13. 73 



415 Attus 76 



232 Aulonia 73 



120 Aulopus 244 



338 Auriparus Ill, 125 



162 Baculites 130-141 



431 Balantiopteryx 217 



519 




520 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Balistes 278 



Balistidx- 278 



Barbarea 169-171 



Barbus 242 



Bascanium 335 



Bassaris 217 



Bathmodon 439 



Bathyopsis 439 



Bathyphantes 44—16 



Batrachus 219 



Belogona 390, 391 



Belone 249 



Blenniidae 275 



Blennius 275, 276 



Bombus 134, 135 



Bombycidae 158 



Boops 266 



Borophagus 326 



Botaurus 102 



Bothus 277 



Box 266 



Branchiostoma 232 



Branchiostomatida; 232 



Bubo 116 



Buccinum 328 



Bufo 332, 337 



Bulimulus 213 



Buteo 105, 114 



Cakile 377 



Calcarius 151 



CallionymidK 274 



Callionymus 274 



Callipepla 114 



Calonyction 383 



Calymna 4()2 



Camaena 397, 398 



Camrenella 397, 398 



Camcenella 388 



Campanula 375, 376 



Campylrea 392, 393, 394 



Campylorhyncus 124 



Canimartes 327 



Canistrum 399 



Canthaius 265 



Capros 258 



Caracolina 393 



Caracolus 128, 214, 390, 397, 398 



Carangidx' 257 



Carassius 220, 242 



Carcharias 233 



Carchariidae 233 



Carcharinus 234 



Carcharodon 233 



Carcinodon 323 



Cardellina 124 



Cardinalis 110, 121 



Carduus 357-364 



Carpodacus 120 



Carthamus 357 



Carum 161 



Cathaica 393 



Catharista 105 



Cathartes 105, 114 



Catherpes 124 



Catulus 233 



Centaurea 357 



Centetidae 292 



Centracanthus 268 



Centrina 236 



Cephalacanthida; 273 



Cephaloptera 241 



Cephalotes 173 



Cepola 259 



Cepolidae 259 



Cepolis 398 



Cepphus 145 



Ceratinella 31-33 



Ceratinopsis 33 



Cercoleptes 217, 426 



Cercopithecus 206 



Certhia 125 



Ceryle 106, 112, 116 



Chaetura 107 



Charadrius 105 



Charax 263 



Charopa 4©1, 402 



Charopid.e 401, 402 



Chelidon 110, 122, 152 



Chelydra 333 



Chilotrema 392 



Chimaera 241 



Chimseridae 241 



Chloritis 393, 397, 398, 399 



Chlorcea 393 



Chondestes 109, 120 



Chondropoma 338 



Chordeiles 107, 116 



Chorophilus 333, 337 



Chriacus 295, 415 



Chromis 271, 333, 337 



Chrysochloridida* 292 



Chrysodomus 328 



Chrysophrys 263 



Cicurina 26 



Gstudo 333 



Clffinodon 298, 420, 421 



Clivicola 110, 122 



Clubiona 20-22 



Clupea 243, 244 



Clupeidre 242 



Cnemidophorus 334, 337 



Cnicus 357 



Coccyzus 106 



Cochlostyla 395 



Ccelotes 24-26 



Colaptes 116 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



521 



Colias 156 



Colinus 105 



Columba 112, 114 



Columbigallina 112, 114 



Conger 246 



Congrida; 246 



Coniferoe 164 



Conoryctes 323 



Contia 335, 337 



Contopus 108, 118 



Corasia 393 



Coriarachne 57 



Cornicularia 34 



Cornus 376, 377 



Corvus 119, 152 



Coryda 393, 395 



Coryphajna 253 



Coryphsenida- 253 



Coryphodon 439 



Craspedaria 393 



Crecoides 226 



Crenilabrus 270, 271 



Cristiceps 276 



Cristigibba 399 



Crotalophorus 336, 387 



Crotalus 336, 337 



Croapshytus 335, 337 



Crotophaga 106 



Cryptus 134 



Ctenolabrus 271 



Cuscuta 383 



Cyanocitta 119 



Cybaius 23 



Cyclophorus 338 



Cyclopidius 435 



Cyclosa 49 



Cyclotus 338 



Cylindrella , 338 



Cynocephalus 212 



Cynohysenodon 292 



Cyprinidse 242 



Cyprinus 242 



Cyrtonyx 114 



Cysticopsis .214, 397 



Cystophora 424 



Dacty lopterus 273 



Dffidalochila 400 



Dalibarda 371, 372 



Dasyatidx- 240 



Dasyatis 240 



Dasychira 158 



Dasyurus 412 



Decapterus 257 



Deltatherium, 292, 3()8, 418, 419, 421 



422 



Dendrocygna 112 



Dendroica Ill, 123, 152 



Dendryphantes 74, 75 



Dentellaria 215, 390,393, 398 



Dentellocaracolus 373 



Dentex 263, 267 



Desmatotherium 431 



Diacba;a 329 



Diacodon 292 



Diaglyptus 402 



Dialeuca 395 



Dicentrarchus 259 



Dichobune 437 



Dichodon 438 



Dicotyles 414, 438 



Dictyna 27-29 



Didelphodus 292, 311 



Didymictis 292, 318, 419, 422, 425 



Dinictis 425 



Diplacodon 432 



Diplodus 261-263 



Diplostyla 43 



Dipcena ^... 31 



Dissacus 303. 418, 420 



Dolerus , 133 



Dolomedes 73 



Dorcasia 393 



Drassidae 14 



Drapetisca 44 



D rassus 19 



Drexelia 127, 128 



Dromatheriutn 405 



Dryobates 106, 116 



Dysderidse 13 



Echelidi^ 247 



Echelus 247 



Echeneis 253 



Echineididi\.> 253 



Ellipsodon 298 



Elona 392 



Embernagra 1()9 



Empidonax 119. 152 



Endodonla 400, 401, 402 



Engraulis 244 



Entelurus 250 



Epeira 49, 127 



Epeirida 14, 49 



Epiblemum 78 



Epichriacus 296, 421 



Epinephelus 260 



Epiphallophora 391, 397 



Epii)hragmo[)liora ... 394 



Equus 226, 227, 228 



Eremina 392 



Ereunectes 104 



Ericaceae 372 



Erigone 41 



Eris 77 



Ero .'.O 



Erynguim 166 



Eschatius 436 




522 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Escholtzia 454 



EsocidK 249 



Esox 249 



Eucalodium 338 



Eucitharus 277 



Eugenes 117 



Euhadra o93 



Eulota 392, 393 



Eumeces 334 



Euparypha 392 



Euphrasia 366 



Eupleres 426 



Eurycampta 394 



Eurycratera 393 



Eurycrateria 398 



Euryopsis 31 



Eutrenia 336, 337 



Exoc«tid£e 249 



Exoccetus 249 



Exolyt^ 134 



Falco 105, 114, 150 



Felis 217 



Flesus 277 



Fragaria 371 



Fruticicola 392 



Fulica 113 



Fulmarus 149 



Gadidse 276 



Gadus 276 



Galecynus 425 



Galeus 234 



Gallorhinidre 234 



Gallinula 113 



Gaura 367 



Gavia 148 



Gaylussacia 374 



Gelochelidon 101 



Gelocus 437 



Geococcyx 106, 116 



Geothlypis Ill, 124 



Geotrochus 393 



Gerontia 401, 402 



Glandina 338 



Glaucopteryx 159 



Gly pt er pes 394 



Glyptosioma 396 



Gnaphosa 19 



Gobiidse 274 



Gobius , 274, 275 



Goniacodon 301 , 421 



Gonostoma 393, 394 



Gorilla 203-212 



Grammonota 34 



Guira 121 



Gymnosarda 254, 256 



Gy mnothorax 248 



Gymnura 424 



Habia 121 



Habrocestum 77, 78 



Hadra 397, 399 



Hahnia 27 



Haplocomus 428 



Haplogona 391, 400 



Harporhynchus Ill 



Haiengula 242, 243 



Harporhyncus 124 



Harpyia 173 



Hasarius 77 



Hecla 158 



Helaletes 414, 431 



Helicina 339 



Helicodiscus 402 



Helicophanta 391 



Helix 129,388,39^395 



Helminthophila 123 



Helophora 44 



Hemicycla 392, 393 



Hemicyon 425 



Hemiganus 323 



Hemipsalodon 316 



Hemithlaeus 428 



Hemitrochus 129,214, 395 



Heptodon 431 



Heptranchias 234 



Herpestis 217 



Heteroborus 292 



Heterodon 333, 336, 337 



Hexanchidas 234 



Himantopus 104 



Hippa 327 



Hippocampus 249 



Hippotherium 325 



Holbrookia 335, 337 



Holomeniscus 436 



Homalattus 80 



Hyffiiia 326 



Heyaenarctos 425 



Hyaenodon 292, 317, 419, 422 



HyaenodontidEe 292-313, 419, 422 



Hyalosagda 213 



Hydrochelidon 101 



Hyodectes 292 



Hyohippus 326 



Hyopsodus 418 



Hypecoum 454 



Hypericum 378 



Hypisodus 437 



Hypocliilidse 13 



Hypochilus 13 



Hypoptychus 395 



Hyptiotes 52 



Hyrachyus 431, 432 



Hyracodontidre 430 



Hyracoidea 429 



Hyracotherium...,...' 411, 441 



Hyrax 429 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



523 



Iberus 392 



Ichneumon 134 



Icius 76, 77 



Icteria Ill, 124 



Icterus 109, 120 



Ictops 292, 422 



Ilex 167 



Ipomoea 383 



Isectolophus 430 



Isognomostoma 392 



Isomena 215, 398 



Isurus 233 



Jeanneretia 395 



Julis 271 



Junco 120 



Kinoeternum 333, 337 



Labridiv 269 



Labrus : 269, 270 



Labyrinthus 215, 898 



Lacertilia 334 



Lagopus 150 



Lambdotherium 432, 433 



Lamna....* 233 



Lamnidne 233 



Lanius 110, 122 



Laoma 413 



Laria 158 



Larus 101, 149 



Lathyrus 379 



Lepidopus 254 



Lepidotrigla 274 



Leptictidae 292, 422 



Leptictis 423 



Leptocephalus 246 



Leptomeryx 436 



Leplotragulus 435 



Leptauchenia 435 



Leptaxis 392, 393 



Lepus 251 



Leuciscus 242 



Leucochroa 394 



Libera 402 



Lichia 257, 258 



Limnotherinm 212 



Linyphia 41, 42 



Liochila 398 



Listriodon 438 



Lonicera 379-3H1 



Lophiidse 278 



Lophiomeryx 434 



Lophius 231, 278 



Lopliocarenum 35-38 



Lophomma 35 



Lota 277 



Loxolophus 297 



Lucerna 129, 215, 398 



Lupinus 364, 365 



Luzula 377 



Lycsena 157 



Lycosa 64, 68 



Lycosidre 13, 64 



Lysimachia 374 



Lysinoe 394 



Macacus 206 



Macrocyclis 404 



Macroon 390, 391 



Macroscelidas 423 



Macularia 392, 393 



Msena 267 



Malva 452 



Mantidse 241 



Maoriana 402 



Marptusa 79 



Mastodon 227,228, 439 



Megalonyx 227, 228 



Magascops 106, 116 



Melanerpes 106, 116 



Melanta 154 



Meleagris 105, 114 



Males 426 



Meletta 243 



Melopelia 126 



Melospiza 109, 121, 152 



Meniscotherium 429 



Merychippus 326 



Merycochcerus 435 



Merychyus 435, 441 



Merlangus „ 276 



Merluccius 277 



Merula 126, 152 



Mesodectes 292. 423 



Mesodon 393, 400 



MesonvchidK, 292-303,419,421, 424 



Mesonyx 292, 303, 420, 421 



Mesotapirus 430 



Meta 12. 49, 127 



Metodontia 393 



Miacidc-e 292-294.318, 419. 425 



Miacis... 292. 320 



Micaria 14 



M icrocleenodon 3(t2 



Microneta 46-48 



Micropallus 116 



Microphysa 213 



Micropus 117 



Milvuius 107 



Mi met us 30 



Mimus Ill, 124 



Miochvnus 292-295, 321,413, 422 



Misumena 57 



Mixodccies 417 



Mobula 241 



Mola 278 



Molid^e 278 



Molothrus 108, 119 



Molva 277 




524 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Monarda 449-454 



Moneses 374 



Monochirus 277 



Monotropa 373 



Mora 277 



Mugil 250 



Mugilid^e 250-252 



Mullids 268 



MuUus 268 



Murasna 247 



Murtenidse 247 



Mustelidse 426 



Musielus 2H4 



Mycteroperca 260 



Mygalidar 13 



Myiarchus 107, 118 



Myliobatis 240 



Mythomyidffi 292 



Nanohyus 441 



Natrix 336, 337 



Naucrates 257 



Necrolemur 212 



Nematus 133 



Neon 80 



Neophanes 29 



Nephila 127 



Nimravidce 425 



Noctuidae 158 



Noctulinia 217 



Nothaictus 212 



Numenius 104 



Nycticorax 104 



Nyctidromus 106 



Nymphalidse 157 



Nymphaea 368 



Obba 393, 397, 398 



Oblada 266 



Ochthephila 393 



Ocyale 73 



CEnothera 368 



Onychodectes 323 



Ophibolus 335, 337 



Ophidia 335 



Ophidion 276 



Ophiidae 276 



Ophiocten 350 



Opliisoma 246 



OphisuridcTe 247 



Ophisurus 247 



Oreodon 435, 441 



Oreodontida;. 433, 434, 438, 441-443 



Ornithogaluni 169 



Orthagoriscus 278 



Ostracion 278 



Ostrea 350, 352 



Otariidae 424 



Otocoris 108, 119 



Oxahs 288 



Oxya;na 292, 314, 418, 419, 422 



Oxyasnida; 292 



Oxyclasnidse 294 



Oxyclasnus 295 



Oxychona 395 



Oxyclcenus 419 



Oxynotus 236 



Oxyptila 57 



Oxyrhina 233 



Pachyasna 304, 420 



Pachychilus 153, 339 



Pachyenatha 51 



Pagellus 263 



Pagrus 263 



Palsomeryx 437, 438 



Palaeoniciidse 294 



Palseonicus 292, 311, 418, 419, 422 



Pala;osyops 432, 433 



PaL-eotheriidse 430 



Pandion 106 



Pantolambda 439 



Pantolestes 292r 433. 437 



Papuina 397, 399 



Parabuteo 105 



Paracentropristis 260 



Paradoxodon 322 



Parahippus 326 



Paralepididae 244 



Paralepsis 244 



Parasilurus 241 



Parasorex 423 



Pardosa 68-71 



Parthena 398 



Parus Ill, 125 



Passarina 121 



Passerina 110 



Patriofelis 292, 313 



Patula 400, 401, 402 



Pedinogy ra 404 



Pelamys 256 



Pelycodus 295, 415 



Pentacodon 296 



Perca 268 



Perchcerus 438 



PercidK 268 



Periptychidffi 420, 428, 429 



Peripty chus 428 



Peiistedion 273 



Peristetliion 273 



Petasia 393 



Petrochelidon 110 



Petromyzon 232 



Petromvzontidae, 232 



Peucaea 109, 121 



Phacussa 402, 403 



Phainopepla 122 



Phalacrocorax 101 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



525 



Phalienoptilus 116 



Phalaropus 150 



Phania 391 



Phenacodonlidje 427, 430 



Phenacodus 413, 427 



Phenacohelicidas 401, 402 



Phenacohelix 402 



Phidippus 73 



Philaus 74 



Philodromus 59-64 



Phocidae 424 



Pholcomma 31 



Phrixgnathus 403 



Phrurolithus 22 



Phrynosoma 335, 337 



Phycis 276 



Phyllostomidfe 173 



Pieridse 156 



Pieris 381 



Pinicola 152 



Pipilo 121 



Piranga 110, 122 



Pirata 71 



Pithecistes 435 



Pityophis 335, 337 



Pitys 401 



Plagioptycha 129, 395, 396 



Planispira 397, 399 



Platophrys 277 



Plebecula 392 



Plectotropis 393 



Plectrophenax 151 



Plesiarctomys 426 



Pleuronectes 277 



Pleuroneclida; 277 



Pliauchenia 228 



Plusia 158 



Poecilochroa 19 



Poebroiherium 435, 436 



Polioptila 112, 125 



Pollachius 276 



Polyborus 105, 114 



Polydontes 398 



Polygonum 163, 384 



Polygyra 128, 400 



Polygyratia 404 



Polygyrella 400 



Polymita 395 



Polyplacognatha 391, 403 



Polyporus 165 



Polyprion - 261 



Pomacentridre 271 



Pomalia 392 



Pomatomidje 258 



Pomatomus 258 



Potamanax 340 



Potamogalidiie 292 



Praticolella 400 



Procamelus 414, 436, 438, 440, 443 



Procavia 429 



Procyon 217, 426 



Procyonidje 426 



Prodremotherium 437 



Proboscidea 439 



Progne 110, 122 



Proithesima 17-19 



Prothelidomus 393 



Protochriacus , 296 



Protogonodon 322. 427 



Protogonia 413, 415, 427 



Protohippus 325 



Protopsalis 293, 316 



Protoreodon 433 



Proviveria 292, 311, 419 



Proviverridae 292-294, 307 



Psaltriparus 125 



Psetta 277 



Pseudogryphus 114 



Pterodon 292, 422 



Pteropus 172 



Punctum 403 



Pycnogonum 142 



Pyrocephalus 108, 119 



Pyrochilus 391 



Pyrola 374 



Pyrrha 402 



Pyrrhuloxia 1 10, 121 



Qiiercytherium 292, 422 



Quiscalus 109 



Raja 237-240 



RajidK 237 



Rallus 104 



Rana 333 



Ranunculus 168 



Raphanus 381 



Recurvirost ra 1 04 



Regulus 125 



Remora 253 



Rhagatherium 437 



Rhinobatidae 236 



Rhinobatus 236 



Rhinoceros 432 



Rhombus 277 



Rhus 368-371 



Rhynchonycteris 217 



Rhynchops 101 



Ri^sa 149 



Rubus 371, 384 



Runcinia * 59 



Sagda 213-215, 396 



Saitis 78 



Salientia 332 



Salmo 244 



Salmonidce 244 



Salpinctes 124 



Sarcothraustes 302, 421 




526 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



Sarda 256 



Sardinella 242 



Sargus 261-263 



Satsuma 393 



Saurus 244 



Saxicola 152 



Sayornis 118 



Scapbites 140 



Scatharus 265 



Sceloporus 336 



Scisena 269 



Scisenidae 269 



Sciurus Ill 



Scomber 254 



Scombresox 249 



Scombnda; 254 



Scorptena 274 



Scorpa;nidae 274 



Scylliorhinida; 233 



Scylliorhinus 233 



Scyllium 233 



Set rani dte 259 



Serranus 259, 260 



Setophaga 124, 152 



Sialia 126 



SiluridK 241 



Silurus 241 



Simplicaria 402 



Singa 49 



Sinopa 308, 419, 420, 422 



Siphonostoma 250 



Sitta 125 



Smaris 267 



So'.aropsis 404 



Solea 277, 278 



Somateria . 149 



Sparidse 261 



Sparus 263, 264 



Spatula 101 



Spea 333, 337 



Speoiyto 112 



Sphyrjena 253 



Sphyraenida? 253 



Sphyrna 234 



Sphyrnida; 234 



Spicara 267, 268 



Spinus 120 



Spirifer 350 



Spiropalpus 34 



Spondyliosoma 265 



Squalid^ 234 



Squahis 234 



Squatina 236 



Squaiinidte 236 



Steatoda 31 



Stelgidopteryx 110, 122 



Stellaria 166 



Stemony phantes 43 



Stenotrema 400 



Stercorarius 146 



Sterna 101 



Stolephoridae 244 



Stolephorus 244 



Stomateida? 258 



Stomateus 258 



Streptostyla 338 



Strix 112 



Strobila 403 



Strobilops 403 



Sturnella 108 



Stylodonta 391, 395 



Stypolophus 292, 419 



Suteria 402 



Symphemia 104 



Symphodus 270, 271 



Synageles 80 



Synemosyna 80 



Syngnath'ida- 249 



Syngnathus 250 



Synodontida; 244 



Sy nodus 244 



Syrnium 106, 115 



Svstemadon 430 



fachea 392, 393 



Tachycineta 122 



TalpidK 292, 424 



Taxidea 217, 426 



Tectula 393 



Tegenaria 26 



Telmatherium 432 



Testudinata 333 



Testudo 226 



Tetrabelodon 226, 227 



TetracL^nodon 299, 421, 422 



Tetragnatha 51 



Thalassia 402 



Thalassohelix 4('2 



Thalossoma 271 



Thargalia 15-17 



Theleophalla 390, 396 



Thelidomus 215, 393, 398 



Theridida; 14, 30 



Theridium 30 



Therasia 402, 403 



Thinocyon 321 



Thinohyus 438 



Thomisidas 14, 52 



Thryothorus Ill, 124 



Thynnus 254, 256 



Tihellus 59 



Tinea 242 



Titanceca 29 



Titanotheriidae^ 430 



Titanotherium 432, 433 



Tmarsus 59 



Tmeticus 38-41 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIE^'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



527 



Torpedinidre 236 



Torpedo 236 



Totanus 104 



Trachela 22 



Trachinidse 272 



Trachi nus 272 



Trachurus 2o7 



Trachypterus 259 



Trachy pterid a; 259 



Tragulus 436 



Tricentes 297 



Trichiundie 254 



Trichiuius 254 



Triconodon 412, 415 



Trifolium 378 



Trigla 273 



TriglidK 273 



Triisodon 292, 300, 421 



TriisodonlidK 294, 300, 421 



Tringa 104 



Tringo 150 



Trionyx 334, 337 



Triodopsis 393, 4ii0 



Tripterygion 276 



Trochilus 107, 117, 118 



Trochomorpha 400, 402 



Troglodytes 125 



Trutta 244 



Trygon 240 



Tupaiida; 423 



Turdus 125 



Tursiops 289 



Tyrannus 107, 118 



Typhle 250 



Uloborus 52 



Umbrina J 269 



Unio 131, 339 



Uranoscopida' 272 



Uranoscopus 272 



Uria 146, 152 



Urodela 832 



Urosalpinx 328 



Ursus 425 



Valerianaceje 166 



Vallonia 393, 396 



Vampyrus 217 



Vinca 162 



Vireo Ill, 122 



Vi verravus 321 



Viverrid ae 4 25 



Xerophila 392 



Xiphias 253 



Xiphiida; 253 



Xiphodontherium 437 



Xyrichthys 271 



Xysticus 52-57 



Yoldia 350 



Zenaidura 105, 126 



Zenidse 258 



Zeus 258 



Zonites 394 



Zonitida; 389 



Zoogenites 402 



. Zygsena 234 



Zygoballus 80 




GENERAL INDEX. 

 1892. 



Additions to the Museum. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the Molars 

 of Pteropine Bats, 172. On the ce- 

 phalohumeral muscle and the so- 

 called rudimental clavicle of Carniv- 

 ora, 217. On the foramen magnum 

 of the common Porpoise, and on a 

 human lower jaw of unusual size. 

 289. 



Banks, Nathan. The spider fauna of 

 the Upper Cayuga Lake Basin, 11. 



Bates, Henry Walter, announcement of 

 death of, 129. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 40'±. 



Botanical Section, report of, 498. 



Brown, Amos P. The development of 

 the Shell in the coiled stage of Bacu- 

 liies compressus Say, 127, 136. 



Bryant, Henry G. Address on. the 

 Grand Falls of Labrador (no abstrac 

 10. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Observa- 

 tions on the brain of the Gorilla, 10, 

 203. Note on the geology of Mt. 

 Desert Island, 850. 



Conchological Section, report of the, 

 495. 



Cope, Edw. D. A contribution to a 

 knowledge of the fauna of the 

 Blanco Beds of Texas, 225, 226. 

 The Batrachia and Reptilia of North- 

 western Texas, 324, 33L On a col- 

 lection of Batrachia and Reptilia 

 from Washington and British Colum- 

 bia, 324. On the permanent and 

 temporary dentitions of certain Three- 

 toed Horses, 325. A Hyaena and 

 other Carnivora from Texas, 326. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 488. 



Cummins D. B., announcement of 

 death of, 216. 



Curators, report of, 491. 



Dohrn, C. A., announcement of death 

 of, 216. 



Dougherty, Wm. H., announcement of 

 death of, 153. 



Elections during 1892, 508. 



Entomological Section, report of 497. 



Foote, A. E., M. D, A meteoric stone 

 seen to fall at Bath, South Dakota, 

 353. 



Formad, Henry F., M. D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 225. 



Fox, Wm. J. Report on the Hymen- 

 optera collected in West Greenland, 

 10, 133. 



General Index, 528. 



Greene, Edward L. EclogK Botanica, 

 No. 1, 357. 



Hayden Memorial Geological A ward, re- 

 port of Committee, 354. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Appointment as 

 Leader of Peary Relief Expedition, 

 lO- Report of Peary Relief Expe- 

 dition, 290. Report of Professor of 

 Invertebrate Paleontology, 500. 



Hockley, Thomas, announcement of 

 death of, 154. 



Hoffman, Horace Addison and David 

 Starr Jordan. A catalogue of the 

 Fishes of Greece, with notes on the 

 vernacular names now in use and 

 those employed by classical authors, 

 218, 230. 



Index to Genera, 519. 



Ives, J. E. A new species of Pycno- 

 gonum from California, 128, 142. 



Jefteris, Wm. W. Report of the Cura- 

 tor of the William S. Vaux Collec- 

 tions, 502. 



Jessup Fund, report on, 504. 



Keller, Ida A. The phenomenon of 

 fertilization in the flowers of Mon- 

 arda fistulosa, 452. 



Knight, Edw. C, announcement of 

 death of, 287. 



Librarian, report of, 489. 



McCook, Rev. H. C, D. D. Drexelia, 

 a new genus of spiders, 127. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to 

 the life-histories of plants, No. 7: 

 On the vitality of some annual plants ; 

 On self-pollination in Amsonia taber- 

 nsemontana; On a special form of 

 cleistogamy in Polygonum acre; On 

 the direction and growth in crypto- 

 gamic plants ; Tricarpellary Umbelli- 



528 




1892.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



529 



fers; A mode of variation in Slellaria 

 media; On the sexes of the Holly; 

 On the stamens of Ranunculus abor- 

 tivus; On the character of the stam- 

 ens in Ornithogalum umbellatum ; 

 Note on Barbarea in connection with 

 dichogamy, 160. Contributions to 

 the life-histories of plants, No. 8: 

 Euphrasia officinalis; Notes on Gaura 

 and CEnothera ; The carpellary struc- 

 ture of Nymphaea; On the sexual 

 characters of Rhus; Rhus chamce- 

 morus; Dalibarda repens ; On some 

 morphological distinctions in the 

 genera of Ericaceae; Vitality of 

 Seeds, Lysimachia atropurpurea ; 

 Campanula rotundifolia ; Cornus 

 Canadensis; Aralia hispida ; Luzula 

 campestris ; Cakile Americana; Hy- 

 pericum ellipticum ; Trifolium hy- 

 bridium ; Lathyrus maritimus; Loni- 

 cera ccerulea ; Raphanus sativus , On 

 the nature and verrucas in some Con- 

 volvulacese; Polygonum cilinode; 

 Aster tatarica, 350, 366. Notes on 

 Monaida fistulosa, 449. Report of 

 Botanical Section, 498. 



Miller, Andrew H., announcement of 

 death of, 127. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 500. 



Nassau, Rev. R. H. Notes on the 

 Gorilla (no abstract), 10. 



Nolan, Edw. J., M. D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 485. Report 

 of Librarian, 489. 



Officers, Councillors and Finance Com- 

 mittee for 1893, 508. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 503. 



Parker, Andrew J.. M. D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 154. 



Peary, R. E. Greenland Explorations, 

 290. Report of the operations of the 

 North Greenland Expedition of 1891- 

 1892, 342. 



Peary Relief Expedition, authorization 

 of, 10 



Pilsbry, H. A. Anatomy of West 

 Indian Helices, 128. New and un- 

 figured Unionidse, 131. A new 

 species of Pachychilus, 153. On the 

 anatomy of Sagda, Cysticopis, .^gis- 

 ta and Dentellaria, 155, 213. Notes 

 on a collection of shells from the 

 State of Tobasco, Mexico, 324, 338. 

 A new Marine Gasteropod from 

 New Jersey, 828. Preliminary out- 

 line of a new classification of the 



35 



Helices, 387. Report of the Concho- 

 logical Section, 495. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology, 

 report of, 500. 



Professor of Lower Invertebrata, report 

 of, 501. 



Rand, Theodore D. Geology of the 

 Isle of Shoals, 324. The supposed 

 South Chester Valley Hill Fault, 445. 



Rand, Theodore D., William W, 

 Jefferis and J. T. M. Cardeza, M. D. 

 Mineral localities of Philadelphia and 

 vicinity, 174. Report of Mineralogi- 

 cal and Geological Section, 500. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 485. 



Redfield, John H. Report of Botani- 

 cal Section, 498. 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. Diachcea 

 Thomasii, a new species of Myxo- 

 mycetes, 329. 



Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 494. 



Report of Botanical Section, 498. 



Report of the Conchological Section, 

 495. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 488. 



Report of the Curator of the Wm. .S. 

 Vaux Collections, 502. 



Report of Curators, 491. 



Report of the Entomological Section,. 

 497. 



Report of the Librarian, 489. 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 500. 



Report of the Ornithological Section, 

 503. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate 

 Paleontology, 500. 



Report of Professor of Lower Inverte- 

 brata, 501. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 485. 



Report on the Jessup Fund, 



Rhoads, Samuel N. The birds of South- 

 eastern Texas and Southern Arizona 

 observed during May, June and July, 



1891, 98. The Birds of British 

 Columbia and Washington observed 

 during the spring and summer of 



1892, 448. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W., M. D. Re- 

 ]5ort of Curators, 491. Report on the 

 Jessup Fund, 504. 



Ryder, John A. On the mechanical 

 genesis of the scales of fishes, 172, 

 219. Diffuse pigmentation of the 

 epidermis of the oyster due to pro- 

 longed exjiosure to the light : regen- 

 eration of shell and loss of adductor 




530 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1892. 



muscle, 350. The hermaphroditism 

 and viviparity of the oysters of the 

 northwest coast of the United States, 

 351. On the cause of the greening 

 of the oyster and its presumed algous 

 endoparasites, 352. The principle of 

 the conservation of energy in biolog- 

 ical evolution : a reclamation and 

 critique, 447, 455. 



Scott, Wm. B. A review of the North 

 American Creodonta with notes on 

 some genera which have been re- 

 ferred to that Group, 290, 291. The 

 evolution of the premolar teeth in 

 the Mammals, 405. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. On the 

 Hippa emerita, 327. Report of Cor- 

 responding Secretary, 488. Report of 

 Professor of Lower Invertebrata, 501. 



Skinner, Henry, M. D. Report of En- 

 tomological Section, 497. 



Skinner, Henry, M. D. and Levi W. 

 Mengel. Greenland Lepidoptera, 

 154. 156. 



Standing Committee for 1892, 9. 



Stone. Witmer. Birds collected by the 

 West Greenland Expedition, 128, 



145. Report of the Ornithological 

 Section, 503. 



Trj'on, Edw. K., announcement of 

 death of, 9. 



Walker, Ernest. The autosporadic 

 seeds of Oxalis stricta, 287, 288. 



Watson, Sereno, announcement of 

 death of, and resolutions, 154. 



Willcox, Jos. A theory of the origin 

 and development of the earth and 

 heavenly bodies (no abstract), 448. 



Wingate, Harold. Report of Biologi- 

 cal and Microscopical Section, 494. 



Wistar, Isaac J. Remarks on the 

 quantity, rate of consumption and 

 probable duration of North American 

 coal and the consequences to air- 

 breathing animals of its entire con- 

 sumption, 10, 82. 



Wm. J. Vaux Collections, report of 

 Curator of, 502. 



Wright, G. Frederick. Extra Morainic 

 drift of the Susquehanna, Lehigh 

 and Delaware Valleys, 448, 469. 

 Evidences of the existence of paleo- 

 lithic man in America (no abstract), 

 448. 








0im^Bi^^ 



OH Academy of Natural Sciences 

 1 of Philadelphia 

 A2 Proceedings 



Btc!'^^icnt 

 £• LI-, .ileal 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 

 CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



i 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



S 



•roVJ^^^ 





