ON AN EXTINCT WHALE FROM CALIFORNIA.
BY PROF. E. D. COPE.
George Davidson of the United States Coast Survey recentlypresented the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences the proximal portion of the left ramus of the mandible of a whalebone whale.
The specimen was found in digging a well at San Diego on the coast in the southern part of the State at a depth of seventyfour feet below the surface July 27th 1871.
The angle and condyle are broken from the specimen and the distal extremity was not preserved.
It possessed a coronoid process the apex of which has been lost.
The inner face is plane somewhat convex above behind the basis of the coronoid process.
Anteriorly it becomes more convex the surface turning inwards to the superior and inferior margins.
The exterior face is convex so that at the posterior foramen its diameter above the middle is greater than that below the middle.
The inferior outline from beow the coronoid process to below the last external foramen is straight not decurved.
It is obtuse most of this distance but becomes narrowed at the anterior point.
The superior margin is obtuse anteriorly narrowed acute for ten inches anterior to the coronoid process  it is not truncate anteriorly.
The internal foramina are large and form a series below the upper margin without distinct groove.
The external foraminal series terminates much anterior to the interior that is the last external is opposite the sixth from behind of the inner row.
There is no internal Meckelian groove.
The Meckelian cavity of the ramus is large behind the coronoid but small and in the upper part of the ramus at the last exterior foramen.
The dental foramen is large and above the base of the Meckelian cavity to that its inner wall descends to the floor of the latter.
Below the base of the 1872.
coronoid the inferior part of the ramus is rounded but narrower than at the dental foramen.
Measurements.
M. Length from middle of base of coronoid to last exterior foramen 0.22  to last interior foramen 10 Extent measured by four last interior foramina 064 Depth inner side at basis coronoid 10  at last exterior foramen 079 Greatest transverse diameter ramus at last external foramen .
.042 Depth Meckelian tube at last external foramen 024   at mental foramen 047 Width      032  ramus two inches behind basis of coronoid process where broken 047 Depth of do.
at do.
about 095 The presence of coronoid process indicates that the present species was a finner and allied to Balsenopiera.
Though there are no vertebrae or other elements to determine its reference to this genus or to its ally Eschrichtius it may be proper to refer it provisionally to the latter genus since so many of its allies on the Atlantic coast formations have been found to be referable to it.
This course is still more appropriate from the fact that the strata of tertiary age near San Diego are reported to be of miocene age the same in which the eastern Eschrichtii have been found.
As to its specific characters these differ entirelfrom those of the latter.
The ramus lacks the decurvature of most of them.
In size it approaches nearest the E. polyporus
Cope and E. prisms Leidy.
It is much less convex externally than the latter.
The exterior series of pores does not extend so far posteriori as in E. polyporus and the dental foramen has a superior position besides other differences.
Size that of E. prisons.
The species may bear the name of its discoverer and be called Eschriciiitus davidsonii in recollection of the efforts of George Davidson to aid the cause of science in various ways.
This whale when living probably attained a length of about forty feet.
1 Proceed.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc 1870 p. 285.
June 25 March 5.
Mr. Vaux VicePresident in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
The following papers were offered for publication   Remarks on the Synopsis of the Genus Chettusia Lobivanellus with a Description of a New Species by J.
A.
Ogden.
By Dr. 0.
Finsch. 
On Numerical Order in the Branching of some Coniferre.
By Thos.
Meehan.
March 12.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyfour members present.
The following paper was presented for publication   On Prehistoric Human Art from Wyoming and Colorado.
By E. L. Berthoud.
March 19.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentytwo members present.
March 26.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Eighteen members present.
On favorable report of the committees the following papers were order to be published 1872.
REMARKS ON THE SYNOPSIS OF THE GENUS Chettusia LOBIVANELLUS WITH A DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES BY J.
A.
OGDEN.
BY DR. 0.
FINSCH.
The newly described Ghettusia nivifrons Ogden p. 196 is without the slightest doubt identical with Chettusia crassirostris De Fil.
Defilippia crassirostris Salvad.
 our Limnetes crassirostris Yogel Ost.
Africas p. 641.
On the plate PI.
I.
the back and scapulars are wrongly  darkbrown colored instead of light brownishgray as accurately noticed in the description.
A very good and trustworthy representation is given by von Heugliss  Ornithologie Nordostafricas t. XXXIII.
To Gh.
senegalla p. 194 Vanellus albifrons Bripp.
noticed as a synonym of this species has never been published by Dr. Brippell at least I could not find the source.
The next ally of Gh.
senegalla is Ch.
lateralis Sin.
p. 195 No.
5 which finally will turn out to be only a stage of plumage.
Vide Ost.
Africa p.
643.
To Gh.
inornata Schl.
p. 195.
This must stand as Ch.
cinerea Blyth. which is wrongly used as a synonym of Ch.
gregaria No.
10.
Gh.
inornata Sws.
nee.
Schleg.
is by no means identical with inornata Schlegel but a very different species from Westei'n Africa which has been omitted in the Synopsis as also the following wellmarked species Gh.
Hoplopterus ventralis Wagl.
ex India by mistake as synonymous with Ch.
gregaria noticed.
Ch.
Hoplopterus speciosa Wagl.
ex Africa.
Ch.
Hoplopterus cayana Sabh.
ex America merid.
Ch.
coronata Gml.
ex Africa.
Gh.
melanoptera Bripp.
ex Africa.
Ch.
Lobivanellus biloba Gml.
ex India.
Ch.
Lobivanellus pectoralis Cuv.
ex Australia.
Gh.
Sarciophorus pileatus Gml.
ex Africa.
Bremen G. February 1872.
June 25 ON NUMERICAL ORDER IN THE BRANCHING OF SOME CONIFERS.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
In a paper entitled  Adnation in Coniferse read at the Chicago meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and which was published in the Proceedings'' for 1868 I pointed out that the true leaves of Coniferae were mostly adherent to the stem not merely  decurrent as is usually said of some of them  and that the vigor of the axis or stem was the measure of the adhesion.
I now propose to show that axial vigor also determines the law of branching in some cases and that the branching is on a numerical plan.
In the most vigorous growths of Thuja occidentalism the common American arbor vita the leaves are almost wholly united with the axis only the delicate sharp awns are free.
These are arranged in pairs one leaf opposite the other.
The upper pair alternates with the lower decussate.
A branch appears at the eighth node  and always at the eighth node when the vigor of the branch remains the same.
As the axis weakens the branches appear at the sixth node.
This is the general average.
With greater weakness the fourth node gives birth to the branch  and finally as the plant takes on its frondose flattened form a branch pushes from every alternate node.
But in no case does a branch push at an odd number.
They are always from the second fourth sixth or eighth node.
In Tfiuja gigantea Nutt. the same law prevails the sixth and eighth being more numerous.
In Libocedrus decurrens all appear to be on the alternate plan.
I have seen no instance even in vigorous shoots where the branches push otherwise than from every second node.
This is also true of Chamsecyparis Laivsoniana Pari.
 and of G. obtusa Sieb. G. pisifera and C. retusa all probably varieties of one thing.
In Biota orientalis the branching is mostly from the fourth node occasionally from the second or sixth  rarely one will come from the third and odd number.
In the curious variety B.
0. pendula Pari. where the plant has lost or never achieved the power to 1872.
produce frondose branches the numerical order is lost branchlets push at any indefinite point along the stem.
In Chamaecy parts spheeroidea Spach. the American white cedar the branching is pretty regular at the fourth node sometimes from the second rarely from the fifth.
In Chamsecy parts nutpsensis Spach. the .yellow cedar of the Pacific Coast the course is the same as in the American arbor vita.
Sometimes in very stout shoots of this plant the leaves will be in whorls of three.
It is curious to note then that the branching is on the odd numbers either at three five or so on but yet not in a regular graded series as in its normal condition and in the arbor vitaes.
I have counted as many as fifteen nodes without a branch and this absence of order in branching also exists in junipers.
In these the leaves are mostly in threes though still decussate and the branching takes place at the odd numbers and is irregular.
Callitris quadrivalvis has four leaves in a whorl and here again we have the irregular branching of the junipers.
The result of these observations is that in a large number of cases the frequency of branching is in company with declining vigor  that presence of leaves in an opposite pair is favorable to a regularity of branching on even numbers and that whorls of three or more are associated with irregular branching on odd numbers.
It is proper to remark that this branching has reference to the growth of one season.
There are axillary dormant buds at every node which may push according to circumstances during any subsequent year.
In connection with this subject are some observations worthy of note though not probabby original.
As soon as the branching at alternate nodes begins in Libocedras Thuja Biota and others the frondose character commences.
The pair of adated leaves just above the node which bore a branch is much contracted.
These are always on the upper and lower faces and are known as the dorsal leaves.
The next pair of leaves are more developed more free from cohesion with the axis and from one of them a branchlet usually springs.
These are the marginal leaves.
Usually the branchlets one from a node and from every second node are alternate with the ones above and below it  but when June 25 the branchlet pushes front the main branch the first series of two or sometimes three are one above another and on the upper side.
The flattened frondose form is the result of this plan of development.
Rarely two branchlets will proceed from each node one from the axil of each opposite leaf.
In some species each succeeding pair of cohering leaves are of equal length and strength.
In the Thujas and in Ghamsecyparis Lamsoniana this is characteristic but in Libocedrus decurrens and Chamascyparis obtusa and allies every first pair succeeding a branchlet and which on the flattened conditions constitute the dorsal pair are very much abbreviated and shortened so much indeed as to scarcely proceed beyond the line of the lower pair and tbus some writers have been led to describe these plants as having 4verticillate leaves.
The seedling or first year's growth of Biota orientalis exhibits this subverticillate character.
The first pair of leaves succeeding the cotyledons is so near as to appear almost two of a series of four cot3 T ledon lobes.
For many successive nodes the leaves appear to be 4verticillate.
In regard to the early leaves of coniferous plants those which follow the cotyledons are nearly free having little cohesion with the stem or  decurrence as botanists sa r .
As the axis becomes thicker or as I have termed it in the paper referred to endowed with more vitality there is less of the free portion and more of the adnated or cohering until in Pinus there is nothing left but a thickened bed or pulvinus  and the axial bud which generally marks th f o diverging place of the proper leaf has to push and in a difficult way perform the function of leaves.
If any thing tend to check the vitality of the tree so that the axial buds do not develop the adnating power is weakened and the true leaves again become free from the stem.
This is seen in Pinus edulis Engl.
At any time through its existence where the branches are weak by being shaded or starved by other branches the pulvini develop into true leaves and the axial bud usually producing two needles does not push.
Street trees and osier willows when annually trimmed though the subsequent growth is vigorous increase their trunks slowly in girth and die much earlier than uncut ones.
Thus their vitality is impaired.
Some pine trees when cut down push up strong sprouts and these will often have the pulvini developed into true leaves as in the weakened Pinus 1872.1 edulis.
I have shown already in the paper before referred to that Thujopsis borealis  Chamsecyparis Nutksensis Spach.
also throws out free leaves always in the weakened cutting state.
In some garden varieties of Thuja and Biota the weak axis of the seedling condition remains throughout many succeeding jears of growth.
In all these cases the leaves are free.
These free leaved forms are still regarded by some excellent European botanists as species of unknown introduction although as stated in my paper on u Adnation in Conifera their derivation from Thuja and Biota is founded on direct evidence.
I refer to this incidental matter chiefly to add the new observation in connection with the leading points of the present paper that with their weakened condition the regular numerical order of branching as noted in the fully developed forms does not exist.
I do not suppose this law of vital vigor so far as developed will account for all the phenomena of free or adnated leaves or for all the numerical relations of branchlets to the nodes.
I have myself pointed out some apparent exceptions but I trust I have made it clear that it performs no mean part in the order of these things.
June 25 natural sciences op philadelphia.
37 April 2.
Mi'.Vaux YicePresident in the chair.
Twentythree members present.
The following paper was presented for publication   Descriptions and Illustrations of Genera of Shells.
By T. A. Conrad.
Remarks on some Extinct Mammals.
Prof. Leidy exhibited specimens of fossils from the Tertiary of Wyoming.
One of these is an upper jaw fragment with two molars  the other a lower jaw fragment with a single molar.
The upper molars have crowns composed of four lobes of which the outer are like the corresponding ones in Anchitherium.
Of the inner lobes the front one is much the larger and is prolonged outwardly in advance of the anteroexternal lobe.
It is homologous with the anterointernal and anteromedian lobes as existing in Anchitherium in a completely connate condition.
The posterointernal lobe is the smallest of the crown.
It is conical and conjoins that in front.
A barely perceptible trace of a posteromedian lobe is seen.
A strong basal ridge incloses the crown except externally where it is feebly produced.
The three upper molars occupied a space of 8 lines.
The first molar is 2 lines fore and aft and 3 transversely  the second is 2 lines fore and aft and the last one 2 lines.
A question arises as to whether these teeth pertain to any of the animals previously indicated from lower jaw specimens with teeth.
They are too large for the known species of Hyopsodus or Microsyops.
They nearly accord in size with the lower molars of Notharctus and perhaps belong to this genus.
Linnotherium appears not to differ from this as the number of teeth and their constitution are the same.
The lower jaw fragment accompanying the upper one may belong to the same animal.
The molar it contains though resembling those of Notharctus differs in several points.
I propose to refer the fossils to a species with the name of Hipposyus formosus.
Prof. Leidy further remarked that he had recently the opportunity of examining the tooth described by Prof. Marsh under the name of Palseosyops minor.
The tooth evidently belongs to the curious pachyderm with the beaverlike incisors named Trogosus castoridens.
On observing the molar tooth which is not worn away like those in the jaw specimen upon which the latter was named it at once called to mind the tooth which had been described under the name of Anchippodus riparius.
On comparison it would appear as if the specimens referred to Paleeosyops minor 1872.
9 and Trogosus castoridens really belong to the same genus and species.
The tooth of Anchippodus riparius was obtained from a tertiary formation miocene or eocene in Monmouth Co. N. J.
If the determination is correct it would go to show that the Bridger Tertiary formation of Wyoming was contemporaneous with the Tertiary deposit of Monmouth Co. N. J. Prof.
Cope stated that the largest mammal of the Eocene formations adjoining those of Wyoming i. e. of the Wahsatch group of Hay den was the Bathmodon radians Cope of about the size of Rhinocerus.
It was an oddtoed ungulate with peculiar dental characters.
The incisors were well developed above and below as in the Tapir but the dental series was little interrupted.
The crowns of the upper molars were all wider than long and presented mixed characters.
On the outer margin one only of the two usual crescents of Ruminants was present but a tubercle represented the anterior one.
The one which was present was directed very obliquely inwards.
Inner crescents were represented by two angles the posterior forming the inner angular margin of a flat table the anterior a mere cingulum at its anterior base.
The arrangement of these parts was stated to be of interest in connection with the relationships between the types of hoofed animals.
The single outer crescent was a ruminant indication while the inner table resembled the interior part of the crown of Titanotherium.
It differed however in its early union with the outer margin its edge being thus possibly homologous with the posterior transverse crest in Rhinocerus.
The premolars had two or three lobes with crescentic section arranged transversely.
He regarded the genus as allied to Ghalicotherium.
He stated that the mammalian fauna of Wyoming and Utah more nearly resembled that of the Paris Basin than any yet discovered in our country and that it had been discovered to contain a still greater number of generalized mammalian forms.
One of the most marked of these was the genus just described by Dr. Leidy.
April 9.
The President Dr. Rusciienberger in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
Remarks on some Extinct Vertebrates.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to some fossils upon which he made the following observations.
Several teeth and jaw fragments from the Loup Fork of the Niobrara River Nebraska obtained by Prof 1 1 ay den appear to indicate a large species of Felis not previously described.
The most characteristic specimen consists of an upper sectorial molar about as large as that of the Bengal Tiger and consequently June 25 much too large for either of the largest existing american cats the Panther and the Jaguar.
It is as much too small to have pertained to the American Lion Felts atrox for its breadth is but slightly greater than that contained in the lower jaw from which the latter was described.
Breadth of the crown of the tooth is 15 lines its thickness in front 8 lines.
The measurements in the corresponding teeth of a Bengal Tiger are 16 lines in breadth and H lines in thickness in front.
The form of the fossil tooth is the same as in the other feline species.
The extinct species may be named Felis Augustus.
A distal extremity of a humerus from the Niobrara River about the size and construction of the corresponding part in the Bengal Tiger may belong to this species.
Another fossil consisting of a detached body of a vertebra apparently indicates an extinct reptile allied to Plesiosaurus and Discosaurus.
The specimen recently received from Prof. Hayden was obtained in 1870 on Henry's Fork of Green River Wyoming.
It is free from attached matrix and was the only specimen pertaining to the animal which was found.
It probably belonged to a formation of earlier date than that of the same locality which has yielded other fossils previously described.
The vertebra is from the base of the tail and is much shorter in relation to its other dimensions than in Plesiosaitrus or Discosaurus.
The extremities are concave and encircled near the margin of the articular surfaces with a narrow groove.
Posteriorly there are two large articular facets as widely separated as the bone would permit for the junction of a chevron.
Anteriorly there are no marks of chevron attachment.
The roots of strong transverse processes or diapophyses project from the sides of the body just above the middle.
The neural arch was completely coossified with the body leaving no trace of its earlier separation.
The breadth of the body is 23 lines  its depth 19 lines and its length if nch.
Viewing the specimen as probably representing a genus different from those mentioned I propose to name it with the species as Oligosimus grandevus.
Another fossil is a remarkable specimen obtained by Prof. Hayden in the  Black Foot country at the head of the Missouri River.
It looks as if it had formed part of the dermal armor of some huge saurian or perhaps of an armadillolike animal.
It is imperfect and looks as if it were half broken away.
In its present state it is hemiovoid about two inches in diameter concave below and convex above where it is covered by about fifteen large mammillary bosses.
Accompanying this specimen there is a distal phalanx which may belong to the same animal.
It is rather less than two inches long.
The articular surface is transversely elliptical 1 inch wide and 11 lines deep and feebly depressed so as to indicate a 1872.
moderate degree of mobility.
The upper surface of the bone slopes to the end and is transversely convex.
The extremity is expanded at the borders.
Beneath are several vascular perforations.
Though the specimens are not sufficiently characteristic to determine positively whether they belong to a mammal or a reptile or whether they even belong together to the same animal the former one is so peculiar that I am disposed to regard it as representing a genus and species which may be named Tylosteus ornatus.
Curious habit of a Snake.
Mr.
Cope made the following remarks  I had for some time a specimen of Gyclophis sestivus received from Fort Macon N.
Ca. through the kindness of Dr. Yarrow living in a wardian case.
The slender form of this snake and its beautiful green and 3'ellow colors have led to the opinion that it is of arboreal or bushloving habits.
It never exhibited such in confinement however and instead of climbing over the Caladia ferns etc. lived mostly under ground.
It had a curious habit of projecting its head and two or three inches of its body above the ground and holding them for hours rigidly in a fixed attitude.
In this position it resembled very closety a sprout or shoot of some green succulent plant and might readily be mistaken for such by small animals.
Intelligence in Monkeys.
I have two species of Cebus in my study G. capucinus and a halfgrown G. apella.
The former displays the usual traits of monkey ingenuity.
He is an admirable catcher seldom missing anything from a large brush to a grain using two hands or one.
His cage door is fastened by two hooks and these are kept in their places by nails driven in behind them.
He generally finds means sooner or later to draw out the nails unhook the hooks and get free.
He then occupies himself in breaking up various objects and examining their interior appearances no doubt in search of food.
To prevent his escape I fastened him by a leather strap to the slats of the cage but he soon untied the knot and then relieved himself of the strap by cutting and drawing out the threads which held the flap for the buckle.
He then used the strap in a novel way.
He was accustomed to catch his food bread potatoes fruit etc.
with his hands when thrown to him.
Sometimes the pieces fell short three or four feet.
One day he seized his strap and began to throw it at the food retaining his hold of one end.
He took pretty correct aim and finally drew the pieces to within reach of his hand.
This performance he constantly repeats hooking and pulling the articles to him in turns and loops of the strap.
Sometimes he loses his hold of the strap.
If the poker is handed him he uses that with some skill for the recovery of the strap.
When this is drawn in he secures his food as before.
Here is an act of June 25 intelligence which must have been originated b T some monkey since no lower or ancestral tpe of Mammals possess the hands necessary for its accomplishment.
Whether originated by Jack or by some ancestor of the forest who used vines for the same purpose cannot be readily ascertained.
After a punishment the animal would only exert himself in this way when not watched  as soon as an eye was directed to him he would cease.
In this he displayed distrust.
He also usually exhibited the disposition to accumulate to be quite superior to hunger.
Thus he always appropriated all the food within reach before beginning to eat.
When different pieces were offered to him he transferred the first to his hind feet to make room for more  then filled his mouth and hands and concealed portions behind him.
With a large piece in his hands he would pick the hand of his master clean before using his own which he was sure of.
April 16.
Mr. Vaux VicePresident in the chair.
Twentythree members present.
The following paper was presented for publication  Studies of the Tyrannidre.
Part I.
Revision of the Species of Myiarchus.
By Elliott Coues.
April 23.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Tweniyone members present.
The following paper was presented for publication  Catalogue and Synonymy of the Family Lucinidre.
By Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. Prof. P. Frazer Jr. noticed a granular sediment at the bottom of several bottles of water from the Geyser Spring Saratoga and on taking them out they proved to be phanerocrystalline individuals of peculiar form.
This form seemed at first sight to be that of the sphenoid or wedgeshaped hemipyramids of one of the tetragonal or rhombic systems.
On testing the crystals they proved to be nothing else than carbonate of lime and the difficulty lay in making their habitus and composition harmonize.
Arragonite crystals they certainly were not and if they were calcites it is evident that they could not be sphenoids.
1872.
4 On a closer examination it turned ont that they were acute rhombohedrons with four planes largely and the other two planes only very minutely developed thus giving to the crystal the appearance of a tetrahedron or sphenoid two of whose angles were truncated l small planes.
It suggested itself as a means of obtaining crystals from a saturated carbonic acid solution of those substances not readily soluble in pure water to allow the gas to escape uniformly but slowly and thus allow each crystal time to complete its complement of planes.
April 30.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentynine members present.
The death of Wm.
W. Gerhard M.D. was announced.
The following were elected members Geo.
Stiles M.D. Passmore Williamson Bloomfield H. Moore Mrs. Bloomfield H. Moore Alfred D. Jessup Wm.
F. Miskey Wm.
G. Freedly F. B. Gowen E. Burd Grubb Thos.
R. Dunglison M.D. and John Thompson.
Permission being granted Dr. H. Allen called attention to a novel method of studying the appendicular skeleton of vertebrates.
He had found that a radiated arrangement of bones could be detected in the shoulder girdle.
The recognition of such a plan suggested the propriety of characterizing rajs as divergent from a hypothetized centre with respect to their positions to the longitudinal axis of the body.
The scapula thus becomes the neurad the precoracoid and coracoid bones the heamad while the ray of the arm is the manad.
The neurad ray is single and may segment twice as in some batrachians or but once as in others of the same class.
The heamad rays never segment.
They may be single or double.
The manad rays are multiple in fishes and may not diverge from a single point.
In Gobius some of these rays appear as actinapophyses to the neurad rays.
The manad rays are single in other vertebrates.
They do not segment in fishes but may twice segment  glenoid brachium with other forms.
It is necessary to remember that the centre of this radiate arrangement is not at all times at the shoulderjoint but may be at a point at which the u glenoid Parker scapular precoracoid and coracoid bones converge.
This is instanced in man and the salamander.
The study of the pelvic girdle yields similar results to those above stated.
The centre here is at the acetabulum.
The neurad ray ilium the two heamads pubis and ischium as well as the June 25 pesad femur do not segment.
The late Yshaped ossification man is without morphological value.
Dr. A. endeavored to establish a plan for the construction of the hand and foot by premising a system of divergent rays projecting from the distal extremity of the manad and pedad segments respectively.
He conceived it to present a better principle of action than does the hypothesis of Gegenbaur which rests upon marginal chains of ossicles appended distad to the limb.
In the fish the primal divergence of the rays from the multiple manad are infinite and do not permit of subsequent divergences.
In all other vertebrates the primal divergence is finite single and the subsequent divergences vary they attain their maximum number four in the carpus and tarsus of Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus.
In taking the limbs of the salamander 1 as illustrations it is found that the humerus gives off at the elbow two rays the ulna and radius.
The ulna at the wrist gives off two rays in the shape of carpal bones which are serially homologous with the radius and ulna.
The lateral i. e. outer ray segments three times to produce the outer toe.
The median i. e. inner ray segments once and then yields divergents to produce by serial segmentation the toes placed median to the axis of the carpal quantity.
The radius does not present divergents but segments to project the innermost toe.
In this arrangement the ulna is seen to be the more potential of the divergents of the humerus since its several divergences make up the bulk of the hand and account for the projection of all the toes excepting the innermost.
In the foot the fibula is the more potential bone since the area of its related divergences yields the bulk of the foot as does the ulna in the hand.
Again of the first ulnar divergence the median is the more potential since the lateral passes off to the outer toe exhibiting axial repetition of segments only.
The tendency for the greater potentiality to be fomd in the median ray of any given divergence finds an apparent exception in the penultimate divergence in Ichthyosaurus and Plesiosaurus where it would appear as though the lateral ray yielding the last divergence is the outer instead of the inner side.
Enough is secured however to modify the prevalent idea concerning the acquisition of toes.
Conceding that the above scheme is correct it will follow that inasmuch as in the several divergences the median rays are favored and the toes are the ultimate projections of such rays they may be initiated from towards the centre and not always from the sides.
It was observed for example that in the bidactdous foot of the Proteus the ulnar divergent produced an axis composed of five segments to constitute the outer toe.
The radial divergent repeated segments four times the terminal three comprising the inner toe.
Now the hand 1 Gegenbaur.
1872.
of the Proteus is rtdactylous and it is found that the third toe is the median ray of a divergence terminating the ulnar projection.
In this connection reference was made to Buhl's 1 account of a case of congenital defect in the human foot in which four toes only were present.
The missing toe was the fourth which is the median terminal divergent of calcaneal side of foot  the normal arrangement of the human foot being as follows The potential side tibial 
 remembering the twist of the posterior extremit caused the speaker to consider the potential side of the foot to be homologous with the ulnar side of the hand is segmented twice astragalus and scaphoid to produce three divergents 1st 2d and 3d metatarsals each of which segments four times in forming the first three toes.
The outer weaker side segments serially twice calcaneum cuboid to yield two divergents 4th and 5th metatarsals which thence form the fourth and fifth toes.
3 The relations between the term actinapophysis and the term ray as used in the above descriptions were next dwelt upon.
It was proposed to restrict the term actinapophysis to a segment projected from the side of an axial ray while such axial rays are always in themselves projections from a hypothetical nonosseous centre.
It follows that unless a ray can be traced to such centre it cannot be considered of primal value and becomes actinapophysal.
In the event of the correctness of this hypothesis many of the identifications of Parker must fall.
Actinapophyses may behave like primal rays with respect to the bone from which they spring.
The separately ossified tip to the acromion process is an example.
This is an interesting expression of an actinapophysis projecting in an opposite direction to the axis of its own ray.
Huge 3 in his descriptions of abnormalities of the acromion figures two disjuncted actinapophyses in the above position.
They are it was judged the two centres of ossification of the acromial tip not coossified axiall' as is the rule but placed as divergents to the primal ray.
Dr. A. felt inclined to claim for such centres the name of  centres of nutrition and to revert the present application of the theory to Goodsir 1845.
1 Congenital absence of femur etc.
Zeit.
f. Rat.
Med. 1860 p. 128.
2 In the hand the radius ulna Gegenbaur yields the scaphoid for a segment and the trapezius and trapezium as divergents probably.
The ulna gives the semilunar for a segment and magnum unciform and cuneiform for divergents  the fourth and fifth toe are secondary divergences from the unciform probably.
s Zeit.
f. Hat.
Med. 1859 p. 258.
1 k 'Of the forces which exist in connection with centres of nutrition nothing very definite can yet be stated.
When this branch of inquiry shall have been opened up we shall expect to have a science of organic forces bearing direct relations to anatomy the science of organic forms.
An.
and Path.
Obs. Art.
Centres of Nutrition.
June 25 The speaker was of the opinion that as a principle it was capa ble of interpreting much of the skeleton.
He had reason to believe that the bilaterality of centres of ossification Serres so far as they apply to the neural and heamal axes vertebral column and sternum being assumed all other arrangements of the scleral tissues were about  centres of nutrition.
The costal series inclusive of the clavicles with its multiple segmentations and occasional actinapophyses and more especially the infracranial arches the branchial hyoid mandibular apparatuses were held to be parts of a system similar to the above in kind.
On favorable report of the Committees the following papers were ordered to be printed  1872.
ON PREHISTORIC HUMAN ART FROM WYOMING AND COLORADO.
BY E. L. BERTHOUD A.M. C.E.
Journal of a Reconnoissance made along Creek Valley Colorado in October and November 1871.
Greeley Colorado.
Oct. 21 mi.
We leave Greeley lat.
40 25' long.
104 36' west at 2 P.M. cross Cache La Poudre Railroad half mile east of town our course is N. 60 east.
Camping in the evening below the mouth of the Cache La Poudre and on north bank of South Platte River our reconnoissance line takes us to Low Wet Creek three miles north of the river but the total want of water in the creek compels us to go to Platte River for camp.
Altitude above the sea 45.56.
Vegetation is getting more stunted the only trees and shrubs found are Populus angulata Salix muhlenbergiana
Rhus triloba and Negundo aceroides Cerasus serotina  while a few Cleome integrifolia and Aster NovseAnglise
are et in flower and Cactus 'opuntia covers the high prairie everywhere.
Platte River abounds in wild geese A. canadensis  brant A. Bernicla  some white gulls and sooty terns.
Oct. 22.
Leave camp at 7 A.M. course N. 36 east.
Travelling today to reach Crow Creek for evening camp  soil is sandy and covered in every direction with prickly pear of most annojang thickness  our view in every direction except west is bounded by a dreary grayish monotonous prairie still it is singular to see what a large amount of animal life exists here.
Three kinds of wolves the little prairie fox Canis velox antelopes badgers prairie dogs two kinds of rabbits blacktailed deer were seen by us today at 3 P.M. in full sight of Crow Creek we find in several prairie ridges multitudes of Ostrsea or Inoceramus shells forming beds of dark soft earthy limestone.
Reaching Crow Creek we camp in a bend of the stream.
Oct. 23.
We follow Crow Creek today for nine or ten miles in a course on average about N. 40 east.
Water and grass scarce and bad.
We cross and recross the creek today but it is dry and sandy and its banks wofully parched at 3 P.M. finding a June 25 water hole of green slimy liquid we camp on the west side of the creek.
While investigating the formation of the bluffs capped with gravel we find many beautiful moss agates and numerous flakes and rude stone implements mixed in tertiary gravel and seemingly coeval with it.
Oct. 24.
Crossing Crow Creek at camp our course is N. 23 and K 11 east.
On leaving Crow Creek I obtained a complete suite of stone implements and rude fragments which occur mixed in a gravel and sand deposit that composes the summit and sides of the low bluffs on the east bank.
I found them in the gravel in the soil in every kind of position and sometimes weather beaten or stained by weather and rain.
The accompanying gravel is composed of smooth pebbles of quartzite jasper agate granite mica slate basalt  with a few shells and fossil wood or wood opal  while in the low grounds at the foot of the bluffs ancient fireplaces burnt fragments of bone and wood with flint and agate chips and implements almost universally distinct from those on the summit of the low hills bordering Crow Creek so much is this the case that the two seem to point to a distinct era the later presenting some progress and refinement even in stone implements.
The evidences of the oldest and rudest art do not even show traces of fire or fireplaces  rough implements irregular piles of pebbles are all that is left us to show and identify to the observer the obscure seat of a still more obscure barbarism.
Anotlr si fact puzzles me that whenever and wherever on Cache La Poudre Big Thompson River Clear Creek Crow Creek and Platte River we find evidences of  Preaboriginal occupation it is invariably on the low bluffs bordering these valleys and in a tertiary gravel deposit  but if we go back in the higher region of the prairies they almost disappear or present a difference in form or material.
The shape the location the rude barbarism of these first attempts of art irresistibly lead us to compare them to the rude tools of Abbeville in France or the implements of kerne in England.
I am glad to be able to give a few shells from this place which will serve to guide us in determining the age of the gravel beds of Crow Creek.
We are fast nearing the high tableland between South Platte 1872.
River Crow Creek and Pole Creek  this is a dividing ridge capped by conglomerate in many places and under this on Low Wet Little Crow Creek etc. miocene beds with Oreodon Titanotherium and freshwater turtles.
The gravel beds of Crow Creek may be quaternary 
but they seem made up from the decomposed capping north of us and at Golden City apparently underly the newer tertiary beds capped with basalt 
Continuing our course about N.
15 east we reach Crow Creek again in the evening  passing over a bed of lignite or tertiary coal.
Prame very sandy and dry  formation soft sandstone and clay beds.
Oct. 25.
Course about N. 11 to 17 east following Crow Creek three or four miles.
I noticed in two places in the steep bluffs bordering the stream the burnt stones and black carbonaceous remains of old fireplaces from four to eight feet below the present surface.
At 11 A.M. we again leave Crow Creek and begin to cross another large bend in that stream.
We are in sight of bright white bluffs north of us and directly in our course.
These are the white or chalk bluffs that extend west to near the foot of the black hills and on the boundary between Colorado and Wyoming Territories on the parallel of 41 N. Antelopes abound here we saw also today sixteen wild horses which at the first sight of our men went off at a rattling pace the patriarch of the flock a fine black stallion driving the rest before him.
Passing over a flat wellgrassed prairie bottom we reach at 1 P.M. some long low ridges that insensibly aie lost in a low flat bottom bordering a small dry affluent of Crow Creek.
Halting here to await the arrival of the party some two miles back I strolled over the ridges to pick up specimens of agates or fossils  while so occupied I found at the foot of the first ridge the evidences of the deserted site of an ancient village the stone heaps and circles the projecting and polished boulders the stray flint tools and weapons the multitudes of broken flakes or fragments left in the primeval workshop  while all around dispersed in rude circles the boulders of quartzite of jaspery rocks yellow red or gray nowhere else  in situ speak of some method or manner of industry totally unlike our more modern Indian or mound builder's vestiges.
I made a sketch of this locality marked A A a on the map and June 25 also made a collection of the better formed implements and weapons.
I examined this locality critically to get some clue to its antiquity.
North half a mile farther another old site was reached marked by four large boulders placed on end in some sort of rude order.
Crossing a small valley I reached another spot indicated by similar rude monuments and characterized by heaps of ancient implements and chiplings of the most primitive kind  these are strewn in every direction on a grassy ridge sloping down into a small valley.
The boulders here and elsewhere may have been placed as rallying points for the family circle of the  Preaboriginal man.
Located on points of land and extended promontories these ancient sites favor strongly the idea of location near some ancient estuary or freshwater lake  whose vestiges the present topography of this region favors.
Note on the Shells accompanying the Flints.
These represent four species three only determinable.
My friend T. A. Conrad to whom I submitted them states that one of them is a Corbicula the other a Eangia both estuary shells certainly not of later age than older Pliocene or possibly Miocene but there is no trace of Rangia in the Eocene.
E.D.
Cope.
1872.
DESCRIPTIONS AND ILLUSTRATIONS OF GENERA OF SHELLS.
BY T. A. CONRAD.
CRASSATELLA Lam.
Subgenus Pachythertjs.
C. Pteropsis Conrad PI.
I. fig.
1.
Cretaceous.
C. Ripleyana Conrad fig.
7.
Cretaceous.
C. ligeriensis D'Orb.
fig.
10.
Cretaceous.
I do not suppose this group of Cretaceous Eocene and Oligocene shells will be recognized as a genus distinct from Crassatella and therefore I propose it as a subgenus to mark the differences which characterize the species of Cretaceous and older tertiary formations and distinguish them from Miocene and recent forms.
For description of the subgenus see Anier.
Journ.
of Conch. vol.
v. p. 47.
Crassatella.
Miocene and recent.
C .
undulata Say Plate I. fig.
9.
PLEUROCONCHA.
Shell radiately ribbed hinge of right valve with 2 cardinal teeth posterior one immediately under the apex triangular thick and directed obliquely posteriorly anterior tooth approximately direct no cartilage pit as in Crassatella.
Crassatella Gallieni D'Orbigny.
.
I originally proposed this genus under the objectionable name of Radioconcha and as it has not been accepted I feel at liberty to alter the orthography though not the meaning of the name.
In an attempt at a natural classification of bivalves it would be wrong to include this shell in the genus Crassatella as the above diagnosis must render evident to any one who studies the subject.
In indicating the genus an error occurred in quoting the name of Gue
angeri instead of Gallieni as I intended.
It seems hardly possible that any one could suppose that I would quote the Astarte figured on the same plate as the type of the genus.
Had I done so it would have been quoted Astarte not Crassatella.
C. Robinaldini was incorrectly referred to this genus.
Ptychomya Ag. is described as having 3 diverging cardinal June 25 teeth in each valve which with other characters show a wide generic difference between it and Pleuroconcha.
PLIONEMA Conrad.
Shell snbrotnnd sculptured with close radiating lines or fine ribs  hinge of left valve with 2 robust diverging teeth  lunule none.
Astarte Guerangeri D'Orbigny.
The radiating ribs and lunule are I think sufficient to distinguish this as a subgenus.
When it is considered that all the numerous species Cretaceous and recent of the genus Astarte or Crassina are characterized by a wellmarked and generally profound lunule and when ribbed always concentrically the Astarte Guerangeri forms too marked an exception to place it in the group of typical species.
SCAMBULA.
Shell triangular compressed  in the right valve one direct tooth under the apex with a pit on each side of it and a long lateral tooth anteriorly posterior dorsal margin carinated which prominent line fits into a doubled lateral tooth in the opposite valve left valve with 2 long approximate direct teeth and a long anterior marginal lateral tooth pallial line invisible inner margin finely crenulated on a raised line.
S. perplana Conrnd PI.
I. fig.
2 The crenulations on the shell closely resemble those of Pachytherus  Cretaceous forms of Crassatella being arranged in a slightly prominent line.
The hinge of this shell is very distinct r from that of Crassatella.
PTEEOMERIS.
Shell triangular compressed radiately ribbed not oblique  hinge of left valve with 2 diverging cardinal teeth the anterior one slightly grooved  the posterior one elongated profoundly bifid  posterior hinge margin carinated.
P. perplana PI.
I. fig.
3.
This genus was indicated in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 1862.
It was not founded on Astarte minutissima as stated by Stoliczka but on Cardita perplana a Miocene shell.
Micromeris was proposed for the former which from 1872.
Lea's description and figure must be sufficiently distinct in generic character.
In the Eocene catalogue published in the American Journal of Conchology Astarte minutissima was incorrectly referred to Pteromeris.
This shell and Cardita atomus Deshayes look much alike externally.
VETERICARDIA.
This genus was improperly printed Vetocardia.
and I here restore the correct orthography.
V. crenalirata PI.
I. fig.
4.
Venericardia dupiniana from D'Orbigny fig.
11.
Stoliczka has figured a shell under the name of Cardita Jaguenoti which has more external resemblance to Venericardia than any cretaceous form known to me but the hinge is different from that of Cardita or Venericardia and also from that of the present genus.
PLEUROMERIS.
P. tridentata Cardita Say.
May be regarded as the type of this genus which was described in the Araer.
Journ.
of Conch. vol.
III. p. 12.
P. decemcostata PI.
I. fig.
8 This is a Miocene species in which formation most of the species are found though the genus first appeared in the Eocene.
I refer to this genus Cardita Kickxii G. chamaefojnis Sowerby C. scat arts C. analis Phil.
EULOXA.
Equivalved hinge of right valve having a long oblique bifid tooth immediately under the apex and one pyramidal thick distant tooth anteriorly left valve with 3 distant cardinal teeth one under the apex oblique thick entire posterior tooth slender and very oblique anterior tooth small pallial line with a slight sinus  inner margin entire.
E. latisulcata PI.
I. fig.
5.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences vol.
xiv.
p. 585.
This genus essentially differs from Crassina in the thick anterior tooth of the right valve in having 3 teeth in the left valve and in having a dental pit in the right valve where Crassina has June 25 a prominent tooth find in having a pallial sinus.
I know of one species only E. latisulcata a Miocene fossil.
ALVEINUS.
Shell eqnivalvecl smooth  hinge of both valves with a central pit or emargination  right valve with 2 approximate tuberculiform minute teeth the first immediately under the apex and the other beneath and a little in advance of it  a lanceolate furrow in front of it  left valve with 2 tuberculiform teeth situated in respect to each other in a line with the anterior hinge margin a submarginal channel runs entirely round the valves to the apex pallial line entire 
A. minutus Conracl PI.
I. fig.
6.
Amer.
Journ.
Conch. vol.
i. p. 13S PI.
X. fig 2.
A minute shell of the Oligocene period found at Enterprise Miss.
The exterior has much resemblance to that of a ventricose Dosinia.
The channel around the submargin of the entire shell is I believe an unique character.
The figure is greatly enlarged.
We have but two specimens of this little bivalve which is extremely thin in substance.
PARASTARTE.
Comparing this minute shell with Goodallia triangularis the hinge is found to correspond with that of the latter and therefore P. triquetra Conrad Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sciences 1862 must be named Goodallia triquetra.
LATIARCA.
Shell triangular thick capacious  hinge line narrow medially broad at the ends  cardinal plates elevated strongly and rugosely striated transversely the larger plates descending medial plates very irregular  lower margin of posterior cicatrix elevated and acute area between the beaks with conspicuous grooves angulated under the beaks.
Latiarca idonea Conrad PI.
II. fig.
1.
Amer.
Journ.
Conch. p. 289.
Eocene.
The most essential difference between this genus and Idonearca is the want of the internal plate very prominent in the latter which is also a much shorter shell with a broader hinge plate.
Cucullsea crassalina Lam. is a fine example of this genus.
Deshayes Coq.
Foss.
pi.
XXXI. fig.
8 9.
1872.
54 IDONEARCA.
Shell triangular thick ventricose with radiating lines hinge broad medial cardinal plates prominent linear transverse or direct and transversely striated  anterior and posterior plates elongated oblique or descending angular at the inner ends and strongly striated transversely inner plate prominent curved cardinal area subequal grooved.
I. capax.
PI.
II. fig.
2.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 2d series vol.
III. p. 328 pi.
XXXV. fig.
2.
This genus is one of the most characteristic of the Cretaceous forms and has the earliest and most developed form of hinge now represented by the recent Cuculleea.
Stoliczka 'confounds with Macrodon the two very distinct genera of Idonearca and Grammatodon.
The latter is a Jurassic genus unknown in Cretaceous strata.
Having obtained the hinge of a New Jersey bivalve belonging to a group of which Cuculleea vulgaris Morton is the typical form I am enabled to subjoin a list of all the species of Idonearca known to me.
American.
antrosa Morton.
capax Conrad.
Mattliewsoni Gabb.
Tippana Conrad.
truucata Gabb.
Syrian.
brevifrons Conrad induratus Conrad opiforrnis Conrad orientalis Conrad sabrotunda Conrad.
Syriaca Conrad.
European.
glabra Sowerby.
disparilis 2' Orbig.
Gabrielis D  Orbig.
fibrosa D 1 Orbig.
Marciana D Orbig.
sagittata D' Orbig.
tumida B'' Orbig.
Indian.
disparilis W Obigny.
TRIGONOARCA.
This genus is eminently characteristic of the Newer Cretaceous series.
It has very marked and distinct generic characters particularly in having teeth like Axincea and an internal elevated plate like Idonearca and Cuculla.
Stoliczka doubts whether this genus should not rather be a subgenus of Noetia a very strange reference considering that Noetia is strongly ribbed has comparatively fine hinge teeth no internal plate and reversed beaks and above all is no older than the MioJune 25 cene while Trigonoarca disappeared at the close of the Chalk epoch.
It combines the characters of Axinea and Idonearca and connects these with CucuLLiEA.
The American species have a very short posterior hinge area which is rather long anteriorly.
Subgenus Breviarca.
Shell short  hinge area minutely striated across  hinge line descending at the ends  cardinal plates minute crowded.
T. perovalis Plate II. fig.
4.
T. Saffordii Gabb Plate II. fig.
3.
18Y2.
STUDIES OF THE TYRANNIDJE.
PART I.
REVISION OF THE SPECIES OF MYIARCHUS.
BY ELLIOTT COUES.
A complete and perfectly satisfactory account of this family can only be rendered by some one who has access to the principal European collections as well as those of this country.
But if the large amount of United States material is thoroughly worked up it may become an important contribution to the urgently needed monograph of the future.
The present is the first one of a series of papers in which more or fewer of the genera of Tyrannidee will be considered as time and circumstances may allow.
The basis of these studies should be explicitly stated.
The investigation is grounded first upon the entire Smithsonian series which in the liberal policy pursued by the authorities of that institution is placed in my hands and probably in the end the specimens will be made up in sets labelled in accordance with my views and distributed to home and foreign societies.
Through the friendly offices of Mr. J.
A. Allen the whole collection of the museum of Comparative Zoology has been sent to me.
The large suite of the Philadelphia Academy is examined as well as the Lafresnaye types and other specimens in the Boston Society's Museum while I have received through the courtesy of Dr.
Brewer and Prof. Hyatt such specimens as the rules of the society permit to leave the building.
Mr. Lawrence generously places the flycatchers of his private cabinet at my service  they represent all his types and many other indispensable examples.
Prof. Orton has promptly signified his willingness to transmit from the extensive collection of Vassar College Poughkeepsie such specimens as I may desire to inspect.
Others are derived from my own cabinet and miscellaneous sources.
Since it does not appear that there is any important material in southern or western cities what is just recounted virtually represents the gross amount available in the country and what this is may be inferred by the fact that the specimens of Myiarchus alone are over two hundred in number.
June 25 Genus MYIARCHUS Cabanis.
Myiarclbus Cab. Fn.
Peruv.
1844 152.
Type Muscicapa ferox Gm.
Despoiina Kaup 
1851.'
Type 
Kaupornis Bp. 
Ateneo Italiauo 1854.
Type Myiobus stolidus Gosse.
Blacicus Cab. J. f. O.
1855 480.
Type Myiobius tristis Gosse.
Myionaz Cab. Mus.
Hein.
ii.
1859 73.
Type Muscicapa crinita L. Non Myiarchus apud Bp.
Cousp.
Av.
i.
188.
Muscicapa Tyrannus Tyrannula Aliquorum.
The genus so called rests upon no structural characters while its synonyms are among the vagaries of ornithology.
But the term is a convenient designation of a group of flycatchers modelled in the likeness of Musciaioa crinita L. They stand near Tyrannus proper and closely resemble the olivaceous yellowbellied species Laphyetes of the latter such as verticalis  but are distinguished by not having the outer primaries emarginate nor the wings longer than the tail nor a flamecolored crest.
The bill and feet of the two genera do not differ noticeably  or rather these members in the species of Myiarchus waxy as much inter se as the difference between 3Iyiarchus and Tyrannus in the same respects.
But the distinction between Myiarchus and Tyrannus due to the tolerably strong features of the latter genus is considerable compared with the differences subsisting between 3Iyiarchus and several allied olivaceous ltycatchers.
Color aside there are no substantial characters by which the Myiarchi can be distinguished generically from  Empidias fuscus Empidonax acadicus  My i odyfcastes audax and others among which lam not sure that some forms with which I am at present unacquainted may not fall in Myiarchus as defined for the purposes of this paper.
In the matter of external anatomy or contour we can only say that Myiarchi are rather large tyrannulas with the nearly even tail so lengthened that when measured inside the coccyx it equals or rather exceeds the wing in length with the wing rather short and its point formed by the third or third and fourth quills closely supported by the second and fifth the first being only as long as the inner primaries with the bill of the most ordinary tyrannuline shape a little more or less than half its own length 1 I quote this and the following name on Gray's authority haying no means of verifying the references.
1872.
5 broad opposite the nostrils and a little shorter than the tarsus which latter somewhat exceeds the middle toe and claw in length and with the occipital and coronal feathers somewhat lanceolate and lengthened into a slight crest.
Coloration is a good arbitrary clue to the genus.
The upper parts are more or less olive sometimes clear and bright sometimes grayish or brownish  the throat is more or less ash' variable in shade  the belly is more or less yellow from a rich shade to a mere trace and the wing and tail feathers are marked with rufous sometimes intense and occuqrying the whole of certain feathers sometimes reduced to a mere trace but even in those species in which it is at a minimum it may be detected in some specimens.
If one will lay the following birds side by side one will see this distinctive brand of coloration running through them all though at first sight such a form as antillarum does not particularly resemble validus.
The Tyranni afford a parallel series between extremes from the most olivaceous yellowbellied species like verticalis to the dark ashy whitebellied carolinensis.
Still in a certain per cent of specimens of several Myiarchi the rufous is ordinarily imperceptible.
Judged by the foregoing standard  Blacicus tristis is a pure Myiarchus  in fact it is the insular representative of nigriceps as stolidus is of lawrencei. 
Blacicus pallidas however falls unde r  Contopus owing to the smallness of the feet. 
Tyrannus antillarum Bryant referred by Gray to typical Tyrannus is certainly a true Myiarchus being simply an insular variety of M. stolidus.
But this error of Gray's is a slight matter compared with his assignment of stolidus itself to an entirely different genus of another subfamily this bird being pure Myiarchus only specifically distinguishable from M. lawrencei as its insular representative.
I know nothing of the Onychopterus tuberculifer Lafr.
which Gray interpolates betwixt the larger and smaller species of typical Jliiarchus but I suspect it does not belong just here.
Likewise I have not seen four other species ascribed to the genus viz.
 tricolor cantans and gracilirostris Pelzeln and fasciatus Landb.
 so I cannot sa' whether or not they fall in the group as here defined but there is little if any doubt that they belong here.
Excepting these I have before me I believe types or typical specimens of all the described species of Mxjiarchus  and these I purpose to elaborate in this paper.
And that I may not be misJuly 2 understood in my method of treating them I will state explicitly that I am governed on this occasion by the following arbitrary rules or definitions  I. I predicate species upon specimens presenting any definite constant tangible characters whatsoever that do not so far as it appears grade into the characters of other specimens.
II.
I predicate varieties upon specimens presenting indefinite and inconstant yet tangible characters that are seen to grade into the characters of other specimens.
III.
I predicate synonyms upon specimens presenting indefinite inconstant and intangible characters due to individual peculiarities or to age sex season or locality as well as upon specimens presenting no special characters at all.
My present belief is that there are only four 1 forms of Myiarchus that do not intergrade and that are differentiated from a common original stock to such degree or in such manner that we cannot account for their respective peculiarities according to highly probable laws of geographical variation depending upon differences in food climate etc.
 but I cannot here enter upon debatable ground.
According to the foregoing practically convenient if not very scientific rules I find that the specimens examined represent nine species two of which each present three tangible varieties.
3 Before proceeding to handle these species and varieties I will recount several propositions that should receive due consideration.
a.
The normal inherent variability in size of the whole bird and of ifs several members is at least 12 per cent of the mean.
This is independent of all extraneous influences.
b.
Size varies in direct ratio with the latitude of the breeding place.
c. Size of peripheral parts as compared with total size varies 1 One is the series comprising crinitus validus cinerascens tyrannulus and pTimcepTialus  the second is lawrencii and nigriceps  the third stolidus fourth tristis.
2 In defining these varieties as I do beyond I must not be taken as meaning that the characters assigned always apply in full force that would be prima facie evidence of species.
On the contrary I describe the extreme phase of variation which shades by insensible steps into the typical condition of the species.
1872.
in inverse ratio with the latitude of the breedingplace.
1 Cf.
Allen Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool.
ii.
p. 229  d. The 
is generally a little smaller than the  .
e. Intensity of coloration varies in direct ratio with the temperature and humidity of the breedingplace.
Moisture however intensifies color more than heat  aridity tones down color more than cold.
Birds from hot dry places therefore are paler cseteris paribus than birds from wet places of the same or even lower temperature.
Cf.
Allen op.
cit.
p.
239.
f. The rufous coloration belongs to the category of what some call  embryonic features in the sense that it generally decreases with age.
Young birds are suffused with rufous to an extent rarely if ever seen in the old  this is shown both in the greater extent of the color on the quills and tail and in the modification of the olivaceous by admixture young birds being browner than the old.
g. In the adult state the freshest plumage is the most olivaceous as the feathers wear browner with exposure.
.
The 3'ellow coloration increases with age to a certain extent and in the fall is at least as bright as if not brighter than in spring in equally mature birds.
i.
The sexes do not differ in color to a recognizable deoree.
2 k. Variation unconnected with age sex or season is in inverse ratio with the migration or changeable geographical distribution of individuals.
This last important generalization is well illustrated in the cases of crinitus and stolidus.
The former is the most extensiveby dispersed species of the genus being found at different seasons from Guatemala to New England.
As its individuals are never con1 But certain localities produce larger bills in opposition to this rule or show greater variability in the size of the bill according to influences at present unknown e. g. the large bills of the Tehuantepec Myiarchi the extremely variable bills of the Jamaican M. stolidus.
2 An unquestionable fact in its application to crinitus and some others.
Authors however speak of colordifferences in the sexes of the South American species ferox.
I have been unable to verify such statements and think that a point of age not of sex is involved younger birds having rufous that afterward disappears.
If so be it that such sexual differences really subsist in the case of ferox then my entire characterization of that species falls to the ground and the bird cannot be specifically distinguished from the variety of crinitus that I call irritabilis beyond.
July 2 tinuously subjected to local modifying influences of a special kind it preserves its peculiarities intact specimens from the extremes of its range are utterly indistinguishable.
But the nonmigratory individuals of Mexico belonging to the same crinitus stock present recognizable local varieties whilst M. stolidus a thoroughly localized bird stationary in several places has developed several sharply distinguished insular races peculiar to the islands they respectively occupy.
1 I can offer no satisfactory explanation of the fact that several species of the genus are distinguished by the amount of rufous coloring though I suspect it may be referable to proposition e considering fuscous a more intense coloration than rufous.
Certainly the northernmost bird crinitus and the bird of the New Mexican deserts have the most rufous of any continental forms.
The extent of rufous decreases even in the Mexican varieties of crinitus is still less in laivrencii and almost or quite disappears in the purely tropical nigriceps ferox and phseocephalus.
But even continental specimens of an opposite character occur whilst the insular species validus and stolidus offer completely rebutting testimony.
This general question of the production of the rufous aside study of these birds makes it evident that large allowance must be granted for purely individual commonly called accidental differences in amount or intensity of the rufous in specimens of the same species.
Though it is certain that for example validus cinerascens and crinitus with its varieties may each be recognized wih tolerable facility by their respective patterns of the rufous whether occupying the whole or a small part or a different part of the inner webs of the rectrices yet it is equally certain that no such slight distinctions as its occupying a fourth a fifth or a sixth of the web fading insensibly or changing abruptly into the fuscous etc. can be relied upon at all.
Among the varieties of M. stolidus indeed we can trace the restriction of the rufous by insensible degrees from its occupying twothirds of the inner web to its narrow edging of the feather and finally to its forming a mere trace at the end.
Moreover the rufous differs so much in 1 Cf.
remarks upon the more stationary forms of Aegiothus as compared with the most nomadic individuals linarius of the genus.
Coues P. A. N. S. P. 1869 p. 182 et seq.
1812.
extent and even in pattern in the same individual at different stages of plumage that we can only compare age for age and season for season with any success in determination of specific characters.
It is most probable that even the wide limits I set for variability in this respect due to age season and individual peculiarity will require to be somewhat enlarged.
The foregoing paragraphs must not be construed as any attempt to undervalue the interesting and sometimes extremely curious characters distinguishing the several species.
Though in the following pages I may appear to have unnecessarily if not unwarrantably reduced the number of species et I am persuaded that no unprejudiced ornithologist could have reached different conclusions upon study of the same material.
It may be well to remember that two hundred specimens of Myiarchus have never before been examined by one person at a coup d'ceil and I really think that with two thousand specimens instead of two hundred I should not be able to establish as many species as are here allowed.
Others will judge whether I have placed the species here discussed upon sure footing  I simply ask for impartial criticism.
1.
Myiarchus validus.
Tyrannus crinitus Gosse B. Jam.
18G  nee anct.
Myiarclius validus Cab. Orn.
Not.
ii.
351 et auct.
Myionax validus Cab. M. H. ii.
73.
Pyroceplialus Myionax validus Gr. H.L. No.
5520.
Tyrannula gossii Bp. C. A. i.
189.
Bed Petchary Anglice.
M. inter majores rostro crasso tarsum requante  coloribus intensis  olivaceofuscus gula cinereoplumbea hinc ventre sensim sordide flavido  remigibus rectricibus tectricibusque alarum superioribus et intus et extus rufomarginatis tectricibus alarum caudaeque inferioribus rufescentibus.
Long.
tot.
t. 508.50 alas et caudre 3.804.20 tarsi et rostri .80.90 digiti 3tii cum ungue .70.80 rostri latitudo ad nares .35.40.
Poll.
Angl.
et dec. Hab.
Ins.
Jamaica.
Mus.
S. I. et Gr.
N. L. Obs.
A stationary localized form which by isolation from its allies and continuous subjection to special modifying influences has become so far differentiated as to be recognizable on sight and which is not now known to intergrade with its nearest ally crinitus.
July 2 The bill is nearly at the maximum size for the genus is largely lightcolored at base below and not perfectly black elsewhere as in var.
cooperi another subtropical form.
The rufous coloration is at the maximum both of intensity and extent  it occupies a part or the whole of every single feather of the wings and tail and their coverts  it is intense on the outer edges of the primaries paler on the inner edges of these and other remiges paler still yet not whitish on the outer edges of the inner remiges it tips and edges all the upper coverts and suffuses all the under coverts both of wings and tail  it usually occupies the whole outer rectrix and whole inner web of the other rectrices saving the middle pair excepting a narrowest possible shaft line  moreover it narrowly edges the outer webs of the rectrices.
In fact the tail might be described as rufous with the central rectrices and a narrow shaft line on the others fuscous.
Nothing like this is known to occur in any continental form.
Likewise the bird has a peculiar sordid aspect below arising from impurity both of the ash and the yellow  which colors have no definite line of separation.
Jamaica the only recorded locality.
No synonymical questions involved.
Specimens examined five.
2.
Myiarchus crinitus.
a. var.
crinitus.
Muscicapa crinita L. S. N. i.
325.
Tyrannus crinitus Sws. Quart.
J. xx.
1826 271.
Myiobius crinitus Gr. G. B. i.
248.
Tyrannula crinita Bp. C. A. i.
189.
Myiarchus crinitus Cab. J. f. 0. iii.
1855 479 et auct.
Myionax crinitus Cab. M. H. ii.
73.
Myiarchus Myionax crinitus Scl. C. A.
B.
232.
Pyrocephalus Myionax crinitus Gr. H.L. No.
5518.
Muscicapa ludoviciana Gm. S. N. i.
934.
Tyrannus ludovicianus V. O.
A. S. i. pi.
45.
Muscicapa virginea Mull.
G. R.
Gr.
M. virginea cristala Briss.
Orn.
ii.
412.
P. E. 569 f. 1.
G. R.
Gr.
Crested Flycatcher Anglice.
M. inter majores rostro moclico tarso breviore coloribus Claris  olivaceus gula cinerea nine ventre crisso tectricibusque alarum inferioribus flavis  rernigibus primariis et extus et intus rectricibus mediis exceptis intus nee extus rufomarginatis  rectrice exteriore rernigibus secondariis tectricibusque alarum superioribus flavidal1872.
bido marginatis in pogoniis rectricum interioribus colore rufo latissimo fusco angustissimo linea recta segregates  rostro fusco infra ad basin pallido.
Long.
7.508.00 aire et caifdae 3.804.20 tarsi .75 .85 nunquam .90 
 digiti 3tii .65.
75 rostri .70.80 rostri lat.
.33.40.
Habitat sestiv.
partibns orient.
Reip.
Amer.
Sept. hyeme Amer.
Centrali prsesertim Guatemala.
Costa Rica Lawr. Ann.
Lye.
1868 115.
Cuba
Gundl. 239.
An Amer.
Merid.

Obs.
These references and diagnosis apply exclusively to the bird that breeds in the United States entirely withdrawing in the fall to winter in Central America.
This is pure crinitus  the birds that summer in Mexico and elsewhere south of the United States have developed other varieties infra.
During the extensive migrations its passage seems rapid and its path narrow  for we have no Antillean except as above nor West Mexican quotations of the bona fide crinitus and few Mexican skins are certainly referable to it.
In passing from its winter headquarters either it flies across the Gulf or else it hugs the eastern coast of Mexico.
I have yet to see typical crinitus from South America.
Diagnostic points to be remembered are these  bill never quite black  stout and comparatively short hardly or not equalling the tarsus which latter never 
touches .90  back pure olive throat pure ash belly etc. pure yellow inner secondaries and upper wing coverts and outer rectrix edged with yellowishwhite never rufous cf.validus in marked contrast with rufous edgings of primaries and inner webs of rectrices  all rectrices but the middle pair so nearly completely rufous on the inner webs that a mere line of fuscous persists next the shaft cf.
irritabilis et cooperi  this runs of equal breadth the whole length of the feathers cf.
cinerascens  it is sometimes inappreciable on some feathers then about as in validus  none of the rectrices ever with more than a trace of rufous on the outer web.
About sixt' specimens examined.
Mus.
S. I. etc.
etc.
Xearly all these not of the United States are Guatemalan are positive duplicates of Pennsylvania skins for instance and were doubtless hatched in the United States.
Other Guatemalan examples and man3 r Mexican skins of birds that never saw the United States represent different varieties as follows.
July 2 b. var.
irritabilis.
Tyr annus irritabilis Vieillot Ency.
Meth.
1823 ii.
847 ex Suiriri pardoyrojo Azara Apunt.
ii.
143 No.
195.
Paraguay.
Tyramiula irritabilis Bp. C. A. i.
189.
Amer.
Merid.
Parag.
Myiarchus erythrocercus Scl.
et Salv. P. Z. S. 1868 631 632.
Venezuela.
Myiarchus mexicanus Lawr. A. L. N. Y. ix.
1869 202.
Yucatan.
Myiarchus yucataiensis Lawr. P. A. N. S. P. 1871 235.
Yucatan.
Pyrocephalus Myionax erythrocercus Gr. HL. No.
5522  crinitus p.
Hart.
 irritabilis p. Bp.
 ferox  Burm.
Num Myiarchus mexicanus Kaup P. Z. S. 1851 51 
M. Myiarcho crinito ipsissimo simillimus seel notaeo aliquantulura obscuriore gastrseo aliquantulum dilutiore rectricibus rufo et fusco fere dimidiatis 
rostro modico nee crassitie M. cooperi pari.
Habitat in America Centrali et Meridionali.
Paraguay Page avis AzaranaVieillotiana ipsissima
Mus.
S. I. No.
16349.
Parana Page Mus.
S. I. No.
16348.
Bahia Mus.
G. N. L.  spec cum typo erythiocerci Scl. comparatum et identicum esse probatum.
Venezuela unde erythrocercus ipsiss..
Yucatan Mus.
S. I. et Gr.
N. L. specimina typica yucatanensis Lawr. 1811  mexicanus Lawr. 1869.
Guatemala Mus.
G. N. L.
Costa Rica Mus.
S. I. No.
29423.
Obs.
This bird so far from being specifically distinct from the ordinary North American form is so extremely similar as to be with difficulty recognizable as a variety of typical crinitus.
The size is the same there are no evident nor constant differences in the relative proportions of bill feet tail and wings and the general colors only differ by a shade.
The bill is exactly as in crinitus  having neither the elongate constricted shape of cinerascens nor the general bulkiness of var.
coojieri and of validus.
In most of my specimens it happens that the plumage is old and worn so that these look browner or grayer on the back than is usual for true crinitus but the Paraguay and Parana skins in better feather are not to my eye an appreciable shade different from several United States skins  the yellow below however is recognizably paler and the gular ash seems to have a little more pectoral extension.
There is however one obvious and nearly constant discrepancy in the pictura of the tail feathers enabling me to predicate a variety.
On on average the rufous and the fuscous on the inner webs of the rectrices are dimidiate halfandhalf in amount this never occurs to my knowledge in United States crinitus cf.
descr..
The relative breadth varies as follows The 1872.
fuscous occupies from to in the type of  yucatanensis and other skins of the same shot at the same time by the same person  from f to i on different feathers of the tail of the Bahia specimen  compared with type of 'erythrocercus' in Mus.
P. L. S.  from i to  in the Parana and Paraguay skins  from  to  in some Central American skins  and then we have  to nil in a Nicaraguan S. I. No.
41189 and in various North American skins.
Comment is unnecessary.
As the foregoing synonym' may be regarded with mistrustful surprise it becomes me to state my case explicitly. 
Tyrannus irritabilis Vieill.
is generally enumerated amongst the synonyms of crinitus correctly so leaving out of consideration the varieties of the latter.
But Vieillot's bird being based on Azara is of course South American and I have yet to see pure crinitus from that portion of the continent all my South American specimens being characterizable as above.
So we have a local habitation and a name as firm ground for further investigation.
I take the Nos.
16349 16348 Paraguay and Parana as being unquestionably the AzaraVieillot bird  they are both distinguishable from United States crinitus by the characters above detailed  but one of them has the fuscous stripe along the inner web much broader than the other.
Next the Bahia skin Mus.
G. N. L. as I see by the label has been compared with the type of erythrocercus in Mus.
P. L. S. and found identical.
It is in poor plumage quite brownish above and  streak' below and has the fuscous rather broader still but there is less difference in the breadth of the fuscous in this specimen and in No.
16348 than there is between 16348 and 16349.
All three are unquestionably identical.
This fixes the status of erythrocercus.
Then the type of yucatanensis Lawr.
1871   mexieanus'' Lawr.
1869 now in my hands has the rufous and fuscous exactly as in typical  erythrocercus and is in other respects a duplicate of the latter.
That Mr. Lawrence did not recognize this identity is doubtless due to the fact that his example of eiythrocercus was not in his hands at the time.
When he published yucatanensis based on the same Yucatan specimen he called  mexicanus in 1869 lie did so simpl' upon Dr. Sclater's announcement that mexicanus Kaup was the bird called  cooperi by Baird quite a different variety and usually held to be a different species.
July 2 Tims we arrive at the above synonym'.
I should add.
in justice to an excellent young ornithologist noted for discriminative abilities that I am not the first to perceive the identity of the specimens here discussed.
They are all labelled mexicanus in Robert Ridgway's handwriting he having accurately distinguished them from the following larger heavierbilled form from Southern Mexico.
But Kaup's name even if it belongs here is clearly anticipated by Vieillot's.
Specimens examined ten.
c. vae.
cooperi. 
Tyrannula mexicana Kanp P. Z. S. 1851 51 auctoritate Sclateriana fide Lawr. P. A. N. S. P. 1871 235.
Non auctorum
Tyrannula cooperi Kanp P. Z. S. 1851 51.
Non Muscicapa cooperi Nuttall quae Contopus borealis.
Myiarchus cooperi Baird B. N. A.
180.
Scl.
P. Z. S. 1859 384 C. A.
B.
233.
S. and S. Ibis 1859 122 440.
M. Myiarcho crinito similis  maxim us inter majores rostro enormi nigro notreo obscuriore gastrseo dilutiore fusco et rufo in pogoniis interioribus rectricum fere dimidiatis.
Long rostri a fronte in apicem .801.00 aire et caudoe 3.904.25 tarsi .S5.95  long tot.
exuviarum 7.509.00.
Habitat.
Mexico prresertim partibus merid.occid.
Mexico Verreaux Salle Mus.
S.
I..
Tehuantepec Sumichrast Mus.
S. I. et G. N. L..
Mazatlan Guadalaxara Grayson Mus.
S.
I.
Gautemala Mus.
P. L. S. fide ejusd.
Cat..
Obs.
This variety is distinguished in its extreme of development from crinitus by the larger size skins running up to nine inches by the larger bill which sometimes attains a length of an inch and equals or even slightly exceeds the tarsi which are themselves usually a tenth of an inch longer than in crinitus by the olivaceous being not so clear as in crinitus nor the under parts usually so bright yellow and especialty by the presence of a band of fuscous on the inner webs of the rectrices varying from i or  to nearly  the width of the vanes.
In its strongest differentiation the variety looks very different from t3pical crinitus but with only a dozen specimens on hand I can trace it directly into crinitus of which it is unquestionably a mere local race.
It seems nearly confined to southern and southwestern Mexico Sclater however quotes it from Guatemala.
1872.
The Mazatlan and Guadalaxara skins are the two bisest Myiarchi I ever saw  one of them is marked length fresh 9 their bills are enormous comparing with ordinary crinitus almost as Tyrannus magnirostris or crassirostris do with carolinensis.
The' are scarcely different from crinitus in color except in the definite fuscous stripe about tj the width of the inner web on the tail feathers.
The several Tehuantepec skins are essentially similar but grade towards crinitus or rather towards irritabilis and in other skins the boundary line is too shadowy to be seen at all.
Of niown knowledge of course I have no idea what the  Tyrannula mexicana of Kaup is for no one who has not seen the type can tell anything about it.
But according to Mr. Lawrence .
c Dr. Selater has recently examined the type and announces it is what Prof. Baird called cooperi in 1858.
Now I have in my hand the specimen No.
9100 Mus.
S. I. Mexique Verreaux that furnished the account in the Birds of North America and it is one of the large heavybilled examples of true var.
cooperi as characterized in this paper  that is to sa'  mexicanus Kaup and cooperi Kaup are one and the same thing if Dr. Selater has correctby apprehended Prof. Baird's article.
I hardly see however how this can be for Kaup must have meant to indicate two species or varieties and it is reasonable to suppose his specimens showed some differences.
My own surmise is that the t r pe of  mexicanus is one of those intermediate specimens that Dr. Selater could hardly help identifying with Baird's description of cooperi the latter's No.
9100 being by no means one of the largestbilled specimens  and it seems to be also Mr. Ridgway's opinion to judge by his labelling that  mexicanus is rather referable to the smallerbilled variety above characterized under the name of irritabilis.
However the game is not worth the candle since fortunateby it proves that the name need not be used at nil and the sooner mexicanus is forgotten the better.
It has caused vexatious mistakes enough already four different authors having used it in as many different senses in tire vain attempt to identify something not identifiable.
Turning to a more inviting point it is interesting to observe how many Myiarchi come to a focus as it were on and near the Isthmus and thence radiate in all directions.
First we have in winter the birds that breed in the United States constituting true July 2 crinitus  another nonmigratory set spreading for a short distance northwestward to form the local race cooperi and yet another chiefly spreading southward throughout the greater part of South America forming the variety irritabilis.
It is little if any beyond the southern terminus of cinerascens forms the southern limit of laiorencei and constitutes the northern boundary of nigriceps and tyrannulus ferox.
In fact every continental species treated of in this paper excepting phseocephalus occurs between Tehuantepec and Panama this is the very centre of the genus.
Specimens examined twelve.
3.
Myiarchus cinerascens.
Tyrannula cinerascens Lawr. A. L. N. Y. v 1851 109 descr.
orig..
Myiarchus cinerascens Scl. Ibis 1859 121 440 P. Z. S. 1859 384 C. A.
B.
233 excl.
syn.
Tyr.
mexicana Kaup.
Myarchus mexicanits Bd. B. N. A.
179 sed non Tyr.
mex. Kaup  Coues P. A. N. S. P. 1806 59  Coop. B. Cal.
i. 316 cum fig.
Myionax mexicanus Cab. M. H.
ii. 74 non Kaup.
M. mexicanus var.
pertinax Bd. P. A. N. S. P. 1859 303 Cap.
St. Lucas.
M. inter majores rostro angusto nigro coloribus dilutis olivaceocinereus pileo brnnnescentiore gula ex albida cinerea ventre sensim ex albido flavo remigibus secondariis tectricibusque alarum superioribus albido marginatis remigibus primariis rectricibusque rufoindutis ut in M. crinito sed rufo vix in apicein rectricum porrecto et ab fusco linea eurvata segregate Statu ra M. crinito par tarsis longioribus .80.90 rostro angustiore .21.3S.
Habitat partibus Eeip.
Amer.
S.
merid.occid. et Mexico.
Utah McCarthy.
Nevada Ridgway.
N. Mexico Arizona Cones.
California Cooper'.
Cap.
St. Lucas Xantus  var.
pertinax.
Texas Couch.
Mazatlan Grayson.
Mirador Sartorius.
Tehauntepec Sumichrast.
Orizava Botteri.
Mus.
S. I. G. N. L. E. C etc.
Obs.
One of the better marked species of this difficult group.
I have seen no indeterminable specimens though I suspect that questionable ones will yet appear from southwestern Mexico.
But the fact that the bird occurs there associated with varieties of crinitus without losing its distinctive features favors the supposition of its integrity.
1872.J The most reliable peculiarity of cinerascens is the contour of the rufous on the rectrices.
In all other Myiarchi examined the rufous no matter how broad or how narrow is straightedged against the fuscous from base to tip but in cinerascens it occupies the whole inner web for about  or the length of the feather and then bends inward to give way to fuscous that consequently possesses most or all of the tip of the feather.
It is a curiously slight matter to be so constant as it appears  and it is not absolutely invariable.
Thus in U. S. specimens constituting the bestmarked examples the rufous is commonly altogether shut off from the end of the feathers while in Tehuantepec skins the rufous gains the very tip being but little encroached upon by the fuscous.
However even in these specimens which barely escape being troublesome the peculiar pattern is exhibited.
But in no case do other than adult birds show the peculiarity  e. g. in No.
1595 Mus.
E. C shot from the nest in Arizona the wings and tail are nearly as rufous as in validus
the margins of all the remiges and upper wing coverts and all the tail feathers are rufous the rectrices having each merely a narrow shaftline of fuscous the upper parts are grayishbrown without olive the cap warm pure brown the belly white slashed with yellow.
But cinerascens has other marks none of them infallible all of them nevertheless useful.
It is the palest Myiarchus of all.
The upper parts are gray merely suffused with olive and browner on the head the gular ash is gray and hoary the belly very pale yellow or yellowishwhite without sharp demarcation from the hoary on the breast the margining of the inner secondaries and wing coverts is grayishwhite not yellowish nor ochreywhite  the bill is almost perfectly black.
My palest birds come from the United States deserts and from Cape St. Lucas here the olive above and yellow below are barely appreciable.
Tehuantepec and Mazatlan birds are the brightest  here the yellow is almost as pure as in crinitus and these it will be remembered are the ones with rather 'dubious tailcoloration.
There is nothing diagnostic in the size or shape of this bird but several tangible characters are usually exhibited.
Compared with crinitus the bill has a constricted somewhat more terete shape  probably it is rarely if ever quite half as wide as long opposite the nostrils.
The tarsi average longer frequently touching .90.
The wings average a little shorter relatively and the tail a July 2 trifle longer the latter exceeding the former on an average .10 to .25 instead of equalling the wings.
Yar. 
pertinax not distinguishable even as a local race  the specimens vary inter se and some of them are perfect duplicates of my Arizona skins.
The yellowbellied Tehuantepec bird comes much nearer the requirements of a geographical variety.
Baird's erroneous identification of Kaup's  mexicana is perfectly excusable and indeed was well nigh unavoidable under the circumstances.
Kaup's careless notice is worthless for all practical purposes and we have to thank Dr. Sclater for telling us what his bird really is.
Cf.
Lawr. P. A. N. S. P. 1871 235.
Other American writers copied Baird's mistake.
This point settled the sjmonymy of the bird is plain Mr. Lawrence's original description being perfectly satisfactoiy.
Specimens examined thirt r five from the abovementioned and intermediate localities.
4.
Myiarchus tyrannulus.
Muscicapa tyrannulus Mull.
G. R.
Gr. H.L. No.
5527.
Muscicapa aurora Bodd. P. E. 571 f. 1.
G. R.
Gr.
Muscicapa flaviventris Steph.
G. R.
Gr.
Muscicapa ferox Gm. S. N. i.
934 e Buff.
1. c. Max.
Beitr.
iii.
285.
Tyrannus ferox Vieill. Erie.
Met.
ii.
848 Sws. Quart.
J. xx.
1826 276 D'Orb. Voy.
Ois.
306.
Myiarchus ferox Cab. Orn.
Not.
i.
248 Schomb.
Guiana iii.
700 M. H. ii.
73  Burm. Syst.
Uebers.
ii.
470 Scl.
P. Z. S. 1855 150  C. A.
B.
233.
Myiarchus sioainsoni Cab. M. H. ii.
72.
Specim.
Braziliana.
' Myiarchus panamensis Lawr. A. L. N. Y vii.
1860 284 295.
Spec.
e i anama et N. Grenada.
Id. ibid.
ix.
1868 115.
Costa Rica.
Myiarchus venezuelensis Lawr. P. A. N. S. P. 1865 38.
Sp.
junior.
e Venez.
M. inter majores rostro modico  olivaceofuscus gula cinerea ventre flavo alis caudaque fuscis baud rufo indutis rectricibus concoloribus remigibus primariis intus secondariis ex intus et extus flavido marginatis.
Long tot.
77.75  alee 3.303.70 caudge 3.503.90 tarsi .80.90 rostri .65.75.
Habitat Amer.
Cent et Merid.
Panama Hicks McLeannan Galbraith Mus.
G. N. L..
Venezuela Nash Mus.
G. N. L..
New Granada Schott Mus.
S.
I..
Costa Rica Arce Mus.
O. S. fide Lawr.
1. c.
Para Bogota Trinidad Tobago Bolivia Mus.
P. L.S..
1872.
fide ejusd.
Cat..
Bahia Bryant Mus.
S.
I..
Brazil Mus.
L. Agassiz.
Obs.
The ordinary South American Myiarchus is distinguished at a glance from all the foregoing by the reduction of the rufous edging of the rectrices and primaries to a mere trace or its entire absence.
This bird averages a little smaller than crinitus the bill is shaped and colored exactly as in that species but is rather smaller  the wings are shorter both absolutely and relatively not often quite equalling the tail the tarsi on the contrary are a little longer.
In these respects the bird tallies to a nicety with cinerascens.
The colors are rarely if ever as bright and clear as in crinitus.
There is generally a mere trace of rufous on the outer edges of the primaries and rectrices and in younger birds is quite noticeable but I have never seen a touch of it on the inner webs of the rectrices.
The outer edges of the wing coverts and inner remises and the outer edges of the outer rectrices.
and the inner edges of the remiges are whitish or pale yellowish  otherwise the wings and tail are concolor and unicolor.
With both Mr. Lawrence's types a typical Brazilian swainsoni labelled in Dr. Sclater's handwriting and various unquestionable ferox before me I cannot distinguish even a geographical variety among them all.
The 7 are indisputably identical.
Swainsoni is one of those constant'
recurring cases of the attempt to distinguish Brazilian individuals from specimens of the same species from northern South America.
Sometimes I know local influences have produced modifications recognizable as geographical varieties and I am willing to admit in this case that swainsoni may run a shade darker and possibty average a trifle larger than ordinary ferox but the difference is not even tangible much less reasonably constant.
Birds from either locality differ as much among themselves as they do from each other and some specimens of swainsoni are more like ferox than they are like other specimens of swainsoni.
Panamensis as originally described was compared with crinitus and cinerascens and its striking differences correctly indicated.
But I am persuaded that if Mr. Lawrence had compared it with ferox he would have been satisfied of its identit' with the latter.
Venezuelensis is based upon a youngish bird which as usual July 2 in this genus see above shows more rufous than is retained in adult life.
The outer webs of the rectrices show quite a rufous edging but there is none at all on the inner webs and in all other respects the specimen is a perfect duplicate of some skins of ferox.
The older names above quoted including the one it seems necessary to adopt for the species are given upon Gray's authority.
I have not been able to look up the references but I presume there is no doubt of their pertinence.
Specimens examined thirteen.
5.
Myiarchus phseocephalus.
Myiarclius phwocephalus Scl. P. Z. S. 1860 481  C. A.
B.
233.
Babakoyo Ecuador.
Lawr. A. L. N. Y. ix.
1869 237.
Guayaquil.
M. inter majores rostro modico  olivaceus caput versus cinerascens gula cinerea ventre flavo pileo alis caudaque fuscis his non rufo notatis remigibus interioribus rectricibusque exterioribus extus albido marginatis statura 31. crinito par
Hab.
Ecuador Frazer Mus.
P. L. S. fide Cat.
A.
B..
Ins.
Puna Guayaquil Reeve Mus.
S. I. No.
54083.
Obs.
My material is insufficient for a satisfactory determination in this case but the species is different from any other so far as I can judge from the single imperfect specimen before me labelled phseocephalus in Lawrence's handwriting which is the basis of his citation I. c. It is apparently an old bird moulting the quills and tail feathers being ungrown.
The wings and tail are blackish O CD CD with the whitish edgings above mentioned and are without a trace of rufoul  in these respects the bird is like ferox but there the resemblance ends phseocephalus being clear olive much like crinitus on the back shading on the head and neck into olivaceous ash not very different from that of the throat.
The pileum shows quite dusky in contrast.
The whitish edgings of the remiges and outer tail feathers are strong.
The dimensions cannot be given exactly but the bird seems to have been nearly 8 inches long with the wing and tail each about 3  the bill measures .75 from the front the tarsus .90.
Additional information respecting the bird is desirable since there is room for suspicion that it is a local race of the preceding.
1872.
6.
MYiARcntrs lawkencii.
Tyrannula lawrencii Gir. 16 Sp.
Tex.
B. pi.
2.
Myiarchus lawrencii Baird B. K A.
181 pi.
47 f. 3.
Bel. P. Z. S. 1859 366 384.
Id.
et Salv. Ibis 1859 121 440.
Taylor ibid.
114.
Lawr. A. L. N. Y. ix.
1868 113.
Id. ibid.
ix.
1869 204.
Blacicus lawrencii Bd. B. N. A.
182.
Pyrocephalus Myiarchus lawrencii Gr. H.L. No.
5525 cum 5529.
Myiarchus mcxicanus Scl. P. Z. S. 1856 296.
Myiarchus rufomarginatus Cab. M. H. ii.
73.
Myiarchus nigricapilhis Cab.
MSS.
e specim.
costaricensibns  cf.
J. f. O.
1861 249 apnd Scl. C. A.
B.
233.
Lawr. A. L. K Y. ix.
1868 113  recte haesitat 
M. inter rninores rostro lato clepresso fuscoolivaceus pileo statimfuscescente gulacinerea ventre statimflavissirno remigilms tectricibusque et extus et intus rufomarginatisrectricibus omnibus semper extus crebrissime necnon intus rufomarginatis.
Long tot.
66.75 alae et caudse 3.003.33 rostri .62.70 tarsi .65.7S.
Habitat.
Mexico et Amer.
Cent.
Texas 
auct.
Giraucl.
N.
Leone Coach apud Baird.
Colima Xantiis.
Mazatlan Grayson.
Orizava Tehuantepec Sumichrast.
Guatemala Salvin et ah.
Merida Schott.
Grecia Barranca.
Angostura Carmiol Frantzius.
Obs.
With much the same strong olive clear ash and rich yellow that characterize crinitus lawrencii is distinguished on sight by its smaller size  pileum generally dark in strong contrast to the back  wing coverts and inner secondaries edged with much the same rufous as the primaries are as in validus and very narrow rufous edging of the tail feathers often wanting altogether on the inner webs and almost always stronger on the outer webs than on the inner ones.
In young birds the edging of the inner webs is usually very noticeable but it is never so far as I have seen so broad as is usually the case with the associated continental species and varieties  never half the breadth of the vane.
Furthermore the bill of lawrencii departs from the thick deep heavy style of the larger Myiarchi and is broad and flat nearly as in the smaller olivaceous flycatchers such as Contopus and Empidonax.
It varies much as usual in precise shape but is generally just about half its own length broad at the nostrils.
Mr. Lawrence has already very properly called attention to the fact that the supposed M. nigricapilhis of Dr. Cabanis offers no tangible specific characters  while for myself I cannot make out July 16 that it is even a recognizable variety.
It is true that in Costarica laivrencii tends to be a little darker on the pileum with the yellow a little more extensive  but it is also true that these characters will not decide the status of ten per cent of current specimens.
NigHcapillus is simply a slight tendency towards nigriceps.
The normal variations in size and color are precisely parallel with those already discussed under head of M. cinerascens.
Northern and western specimens average a trifle paler than usual  the southernmost are the brightest.
Sometimes the edgings of the inner remiges and the coverts are whitish.
Tehuantepec skins show the stoutest bill  this is likewise the case in crinitus var.
and cinerascens showing the uniform operation of some unknown local influences.
One example 34810 Mus.
S. I. Costarica has exceptionally short wings and tail these members measuring only 2.80 and 2.90 respectively.
Specimens examined thirtythree.
The bird seems to range throughout Mexico and Central America.
I have never seen a United States skin and though the species may overstep the Mexican boundary this remains to be shown.
Probably Giraud's bird came from Northeastern Mexico as some others of his sixteen Texas birds certainly did.
7.
Myiarchus nigriceps.
Myiarchus nigriceps Scl. P. Z. S. 1860 68 295 Cat.
A.
B.
234 Ecuador.
Lawr.
Ann.
Lye.
1861 327 New Grenada.
Myiarchus hrunneiceps Lawr. 1. c. nomen pro temp..
M. inter minores rostro lato depresso  clare olivaceus pileo statim nigicante gula restricta clare cinerea pectore et ventre flavissimis  alis caudaque fusconigris hac innotatis illis minime rufalbida marginatis.
Long.
tot.
5.606.
25  alis et cauclae 2.903.10 rostri .60.65 tarsi .65.
70 rostri lat.
ad basin .30.
Habitat.
Ecuador Pallatanga Esmeraldas Fraser fide Scl. 1. c Quito Backalew Mus.
S.
I..
Panama McLeannan and Galbraith Lawr. 1. a.
Mus.
Gr.
N. L. and S.
I. Obs.
Distinguishable on sight from lawrencii by the black or blackish cap in marked contrast with the clear olive back extension of the rich yellow high up the breast and particularly by the absence of.
rufous on the tail  in this respect comparing with lawrencii just as ferox does with crinitus.
The wings as usual in the genus share the extinction of rufous on the tail  a mere rufous trace can only be detected in some specimens on the outer 1872.
edges of a few primaries the inner edges of which however show it a little more plainly.
For the rest the secondaries and coverts are evidently ochreywhitish margined.
The bird will average smaller than lawrencii bnt the difference in size is not marked.
The three specimens examined one of them the basis of Mr. Lawrence's remarks upon the proposed  brunneiceps which he has since abandoned are absolutely identical.
Having no doubt that nigriceps is simply a geographical representative of lawrencii I fear that troublesome specimens will yet occur from intermediate localities.
But the differentiation has become perfectly tangible and I have seen no connecting links so that I can indorse the species upon the principles already laid down for my guidance in this paper.
8.
MviARcnus STOLIDUS.
Notandum  species flexibilis per insulas Antillarum singulatim diffusa in stirpes locorum varios secreta characteres tamen communiter prcebentes ut sequuntur.
Statura maxima inter species minores generis  long.
tot.
6.507.50 aloe et caudaa 3.003.50 rostri .65 .75 tarsi .7080.
Rostrum elongatulum quodammodo coarctatum.
Xotaeum fuscoolivaceum in pileo statim aut sensini fuscescens.
Gula ex albido cinerascens.
Venter ex albido flavescens aut flavus rariore albidus.
Remiges primarii et rectrices fusci et extus et intus rufomarginati rarissime innotati.
Tectrices alarum superiores et remiges secondarii flavidalbidomarginati.
I admit none of the man T nominal species established upon this elastic type  for they all run into each other.
But I can distinguish three local races the extremes of which are readily characterized though their mutual intergradation as perfect as we ever see in stationary insular birds renders it impossible to put them on substantial specific bases.
Compared with the only large insular species validus these birds of the stoliduspattern fill the same position that lawrencii holds in relation to the larger continental species and varieties with which it is associated though they are perfectly distinct from lawrencii.
In the lengthened and constricted bill stolidus differs from the flatterbilled laivrencii and copies a noticeable feature of cinerascens.
July 16 a. var.
stolid us.
Myiobius stolidus Gosse B. Jam.
1G8.
Tyrannula stolida Kaup P. Z. S. 1851 51.
Myiarchus stolidus Cab. J. f. O.
1855 479 et auct.
March P. A. N. S. P. 1863 288.
Tyrannula Myiarchus stolida var.
dominicensis Bry. P. B. S. N. H. xi.
18G6 90.
St. Domingo.
Pitangus Kaupomis stolidus Gray H.L. No.
5438.
Myiarchus common torn fool March 1. c. 289.
Myiarchus greater torn fool March ibid.
Myiarchus curiously feathered bird March ibid.
Albino.
M. fuscoolivaceus pileo statim fusco gula pallide cinerea ventre flavo pogoniis rectricum interioribus fusco et rufo fere dimidiatis.
Habitat Ins.
Jamaica.
St. Domingo.
Hayti.
Obs To take this variety as a standard for comparison of the others though of course it is no more typical of the species than either of the others is I find its particular character in the combination of decidedly yellow belly with tail feathers so broadly edged on the inner web with rufous that this color and the fuscous occupy nearly equal areas.
Either color may be restricted to onethird of the width of the web but neither is ever wanting.
The primaries are lightly touched with rufous on their outer webs  the secondaries and upper coverts are edged with soiled whitish always evident generally yellowish in young birds tinged with rufous.
The dark olive of the back is generally pretty pure contrasting with the blackish cap  but in weatherworn plumages the upper pars are grayishbrown including the pileum and in such ragged state the wings show little edging and the yellow of the belly looks pale and dirty.
This bird is best known by Jamaican material but specimens from some of the other islands are indistinguishable.
I have before me all the specimens upon which Mr. March I. c. based his remarks upon the smaller Jamaican petcharies or torn fools  there is certainly nothing but pure stolidus among them though their individual variations are unusually great.
'Some of the skins appear to somewhat exceed the normal limits above given in size and the differences in the size and shape of the bill are remarkable.
One has a twisted bill  several others are albinotic a condition to which the species seems singularly liable in this locality.
18T2.
Examining Dr. Bryant's typical examples of var.
dominicensis PortauPrince  Younglove I can see that as he sa3's the remiges and rectrices are a little more rufous than in most Jamaican skins  but I also find that they can be precisely matched by some of the latter and consequently I am unable to recognize a variety in this case.
Dr. Biyant's other varieties lucaysiensis and antillarum however are quite different.
b. var.
pkcebe.
Tyr annus p7iabe D'Orb. Sagra's Cuba Ois.
p. 84.
Excl.
syn. 
sagrm Gundl. Av.
Cuba.
Tyrannula Myiarchus stolida var.
lucaysiensis Bry. P. B. S. N. H. xi.
1866 66.
Inagua and Nassau.
Tyrannula bahamensis Bryant ibid.
p. 90 in text.
Not Empidonax baliamensis Bry..
M. olivaceofuscus pileo sensim obscuriore gula et pectore cinereoalbis ventre albo vix flavotincto remigibus vix rufomarginatis pogoniis rectricum interioribus rufo et fusco fere dimidiatis.
Hab.
Cuba.
Bahamas.
Obs.
The Cuban and Bahaman birds which are precisely alike ordinarily have the inner webs of the rectrices as in Jamaican stolidus nearly half rufous half fuscous  but the rufous tends to be a little restricted half the breadth of the vane seeming to be its maximum width while it is frequently reduced to a mere edging especially in Cuban skins.
Yariety jjheebe however is well distinguished from variety stolidus by other characters the chief of which is the almost entire absence of yellow on the under parts.
These in fact are white shaded in front with aslry and just tinged behind with 3ellow the latter however is sometimes inappreciable.
The rufous edging of the primaries is at a minimum  the whitish edging of the secondaries and upper coverts is at a maximum.
There is not so much olive in the color of the upper parts as in var.
stolidus while the cap is much less abruptly darker.
Dr. Bryant says that his variety lucaysiensis is larger than either the Jamaican stolidus or the Cuban sagrse and probably this is so on an average but any difference there may be in this respect eludes me in comparing any except the largest lucaysiensis with the smallest of the others.
I can only distinguish lucaysiJnly 16 ensis from true stolidus by the nearly white belly and find it absolutely inseparable from the Cuban sagrse.
I cannot find where if anywhere Dr. Bryant has characterized the Bahaman bird as  bahamensis  but on p. 90 in text under  dominicensis he says that the latter  differs from sagrae and bahamensis in the distinct yellow of the abdomen etc. showing that his bahamensis is a whitebellied bird and being from the Bahamas it must be the same as lucaysiensis.
C. VAR.
antillarum.

Myiarclms sp. Taylor Ibis 1864.
Porto Rico.
Tyrannus Myiarclms antillarum Bry. P. B. S. N. H. 1866 p. 2.
Porto Rico.
Myiarclms antillarum Sund. Of.
Vet.
Ak.
Fork.
1869 599.
Tyrannus Tyrannus antillarum Gray H. L. No.
5544.
M. olivaceofuscus pileo sensim obscuriore gula et pectore cinereoalbidis ventre albo vix aut non flavotineto remigibus primariis minime rufomarginatis rectricibus ornnino immarginatis sed crebrissime macula rufa in apice pogonii interioris notatis.
Hab.
Porto Bico Bryant Sivift Latimer Mus.
S.
I..
An Tobago Jardine
Obs.
The Porto Bican form is almost a species.
Local differentiation is here at an extreme the better marked examples looking very little like the Jamaican stolidus and not particularly resembling even the whitishbellied Cuban phcebe.
In extreme cases the tail feathers have no rufous edging at all and the belly is pure white.
But we have already seen in the Cuban and Bahaman bird tht the belly fades away from the 3ellow that is found in the Jamaican through every shade till it is sometimes white  and we have likewise observed the reduction of the rufous to a mere edging of the rectrices  thence into antillarum is but a step.
Some specimens of antillarum have the inner webs margined with rufous part way down  and the difference in this respect between these and some Cuban phcebe is not so great as may be found among different individuals of either of the other varieties.
These examples of antillarum also show the most yellowish on the belly this often exceeding the amount exhibited by Cuban or Bahaman skins.
In the purest antillarum however the rufous is usually restricted to a mere trace at the end of the inner webs and it maj r disappear altogether.
I could easily and plausibly describe antillarum as a species but 1872.
I am confident that my mode of treating it is a better way.
In fact my view is simply an amplification of the judicious query that Dr. Bryant inserted after the word species in the first sentence of his original description.
Avoiding all qualified expressions and ignoring details I may finally recapitulate and discriminate the three insular varieties of stolidus thus Yar.
stolidus  Belly yellow tail feathers edged with rufous.
Yar.
phoebe  Belly white tail feathers edged with rufous.
Yar.
antillarum  Belby white tail feathers not edged with rufous.
Twentynine specimens examined of the several varieties from the localities above quoted.
9.
Mtiaechus tristis.
Myiobius tristis Gosse B. Jam.
167 pi.
41.
Blacicus tristis Cab. J. f. 0.
1855 480 et auct.
Pyrocephalus Blacicus tristis Gray HandList.
i.
363 No.
5536.
Minimus inter minores rostro lato depresso  olivaceofuscus pileo nigrescente gula e cinerea albida ventre flavo remigibus rectricibusque minime rufo marginatis illis extus et intus his extus nee intus.
Long.
tot.
5.50G.00 alas et caudae 2.753.00 rostri .60 tarsi .68 rostri lat.
ad nares .33.
Hab Jamaica.
Mus.
S. I. and G. N. L. Obs.
The smallest species of the group and the one showing the least rufous on the tail and primaries of any of the smaller ones unless it be antillarum.
There is no rufous at all on the inner webs of the rectrices but close inspection will show rufous traces on the outer webs of these feathers near the base at any rate  rufous edging is evident on the outer webs of the primaries and a very pale cast of rufous is more conspicuous on their inner webs.
The upper wing and tail coverts show the same thing but the edging of the inner secondaries is whitish.
This species does not particularly resemble any of the foregoing.
It shows perhaps the broadest and flattest bill of any the width of the bill at or just behind the nostrils exceeding half its length.
In this respect it departs notably from 31. stolidus its geographical associate and repeats laiorencii and nigriceps.
Its affinities are really closest with the last named.
Although nigriceps and tristis do not sufficiently resemble each other to render special comparison necessary they are still evident geographical representatives tristis holding the same relation to the insular forms with July 16 which it is associated that nigriceps does to the continental form lawrencii which it replaces in Northern South America.
Of the live following birds referred by their respective authors and others to the genus Myiarchus I have no information  1.
Myiarchus fasciatus Landb. Leybold J. f. O.
1865 402.
Mendoza.
S. Myiarchus cantans Pelz. op.
cit.
182.
Brazil.
Probablyrainulus.
3.
Myiarchus tricolor Natt. Pelz.
Orn.
Bras.
ii.
182.
Brazil.
ProbaMynigriceps.
4.
Myiarchus gracilirostris Pelz. op.
cit.
183.
Brazil.
Probably nigriceps.
5.
Tyrannus tuberculifer D'Orb.
and Lafr. Syn.
No.
G.
D'Orb. Voy.
Ois.
p. 307 pi.
32 f. 1 2.
Bolivia.
MyioMus tuberculifer Gray.
Myiarchus tuberculifer Cab.
Tyrannula tuberculifer Bp.
Pyro.
cephalus Onychopterus tuberculifer Gray H.L. No.
5523.
An Myiarchinus verusf Tbe description indicates a bird of the Myiarchus pattern of coloration and D'Orbigny says that it is allied to M. ferox.
1872.
CATALOGUE AND SYNONYMY OF THE RECENT SPECIES OF THE FAMILY LUCINIDJE.
BY GEORGE W. TRYON JR. Order LUCINACEA H.  A. Adams.
Genera of Recent Mollusca ii.
4G6.
1857.
Family LUCINIDJE H.  A. Adams.
Genera ii.
460.
1857.
Genus LITCINA Bruguiere.
Encyc.
Metli.
t. 284.
1792.
1.
L. argentea Reeve Icon.
sp.
6.
1850.
Moluccas.
2.
L. artemidis Carpenter Zool.
Proc.
201.
1856.
Acapulco.
3.
L. bicornis Reeve Icon.
sp.
8.
1S50.
Ph ilipjnnes.
4.
L. borealis Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit xii. 1134.
1767.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
13.
1850.
Tellina radula Mont.
Test.
Brit.
68.
1803.
Lucina alba Turton Dith.
Brit.
114 t. 7 f. 6 7.
1822.
Venus spuria Gmelin Syst.
Nat.
xiii.
Ed.
3284.
1790.
Venus circinnata Brocchi Coq.
Foss.
Subapp.
ii.
552 t. 14 f. 6.
Lucina lactea Macgillivray.
Moll.
Aberd.
255.
1843.
Lucina leucoma Macgillivray.
Moll.
Aberd.
256.
1843.
Northern Europe.
5.
L. Californica Conrad Jour.
Philad.
Acad.
vii.
255 t. 20 f. 1.
1837.
L. annulala Reeve Icon.
sp.
17.
1850.
California.
6.
L. concentrica Ad.
 Ang.
Zool.
Proc.
426 t. 37 f. 19.
1863.
South Australia.
7.
L. columbella Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
v. 543.
1818.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
30.
1850.
L. Adansoni Orb.
Moll.
Isl.
Canaries 107 t. 8 f. 2628.
1839.
Canary and Cape Verde Ls.
Senegal.
.July 16 8.
L. carnosa Dunker Novit.
Conch t. 26 f. 46.
18G5.
Port Natal.
9.
L. cristata Recluz.
Mag.
Zool.
270 1842 t. GO.
1843.
Campeche.
10.
L. Candeana Orb.
Moll.
Cuba ii.
299 t. 27 f. 4345.
Cuba.
11.
L. cryptella Orb.
Voy.
Am.
Merid.
587 t. 84 f. 1820.
Pernambuco.
12.
L. dentifera Jonas.
Philippi Neue Conch ii.
206 Lucina t. 1 f. 3.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
10.
1850.
Red Sea.
13.
L. dunkeri Menke Zeit.
Mai.
41.
1845.
Northwest Africa.
14.
L. fenestrata Hinds.
Voy.
Sulphur 66 t. 19 f. 2.
1844.
Monte Christi.
15.
L. filosa Stimpson Shells S T .
Engl.
17.
1851.
Gould Invert.
Mass.
Ed.
2. f. 404.
1870.
L. radula Gould not of Mont.
 ib.
Edit.
1 69.
1841.
New England.
16.
L. gemma Reeve Icon.
sp.
64.
1850.
Philippiines.
17.
L. gibbia Desh.
Guerin's Mag.
t. 107.
1844.
Sumatra.
18 L. jamaicensis Chemn.
Conch.
Cab.
vii.
24 t. 38 f. 408409.
1784.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
7.
1850.
L.funiculata Reeve Icon.
sp.
40.
1850.
West Indies.
19.
L. lactea A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
225.
1855.
Australia Neiv Zealand.
20.
L. Mazatlanica Carp.
Mazat.
Cat.
99.
1857.
Panama Mazatlan.
21.
L. Pennsylvania Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
xii.
1134.
1767.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
29.
1850.
L. aurantia Desh.
Anim.
s. Vert.
vi.
236.
1835.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
31.
1850.
L. speciosa Reeve Icon.
sp.
32.
1850.
Bed Sea Err.
Loc.
L. trisinuata Orb.
Moll.
Cuba ii.
300 t. 27 f. 4649.
1853.
L. virgo Reeve Icon.
sp.
28.
1850.
West Indies.
22.
L. Pisidium Dunker Mai.
Blatt 227.
1860.
Japan.
1872.
23.
L. pisum Reeve not Phil.
Incon.
sp.
66.
1850.
Singapore Port Essington.
24.
L. Portesiana Orb.
Voy.
Ainer.
Merid.
586 t. 84 f. 10 11.
Bio Janeiro.
25.
L. pusilla Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
282.
North Carolina.
26.
L. pectinata Carp.
Mazat.
Cat.
100.
1857.
Mazatlan.
21.
L. prolongata Carp.
Mazat.
Cat.
100.
1857.
Mazatlan.
28.
L. Semperiana Issel.
Mai.
Mar.
Ross.
82.
1870.
Red Sea.
29.
L. simplex Reeve Icon.
sp.
11.
1850. '
North Australia.
30.
L. sulcata Reeve Icon.
sp.
20.
1850.
Hab.

31.
L. tenuisculpta Carp.
Philad.
Proc.
57.
1865.
Mazatlan California.
32.
L. UNDATA Carp.
Zool.
Proc.
279.
1865.
Gulf of California.
33.
L. vitrea Desk.
Guerhi's Mag.
t. 106.
1844.
Sumatra.
34.
L. VooRiiffiVEi Desk.
Journ.
de Conck.
2d ser.
ii.
106 t. 11 f. 1.
1857.
L. mirabilis Dunker Novit.
77 t. 26 f. 79.
1865.
Mozambique.
Subgenus Here Gabb.
Pal.
Calif ii.
28 100.
18G9.
35.
L. excavata Carp.
Mazat.
Cat.
98 1857.
Panama Mazatlan.
36.
L. lingualis Carp.
Ann.
Mag.
N. Hist.
3d ser.
xiii.
313.
1864.
Cape St. Lucas.
Subgenus Woodia Desbayes.
Anim.
s. Vert.
bass.
Paris 1 790.
37.
L. digitaria Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
xii.
1120.
1767.
L. digitalis Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
v. 544.
1818.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
65.
1850.
Mediterranean.
July 16 Subgenus Cyclas Klein.
notBrug.
Meth.
Ostracol.
129.
1753.
38.
L. dentata Wood.
Gen. Conch.
195 t. 46 f. 7.
1817.
L. strigilla Stimpson shells N. E. 17.
1851.
L. Americana C.B.
Ad.
Contrib.
Conch.
243.
1852.
L. Chemnitzii Phil.
Zeit.
Mai.
1848.
L. dioaricata Lam.
not Linn.
Anim.
s. Vert.
v. 541.
1818.
L. divaricata part Chemn.
Conch.
Cab.
vi.
134 t. 13 f. 129.
1782.
L. quadrisulcata Orb.
Toy.
Amer.
Merid.
584.
Moll.
Cuba ii.
294 t. 27 f. 34 36.
L. Lamar ckii Dunker Weinkauff Journ.
Conch x.
315.
1862.
L. eburnea Reeve Icon.
sp.
49.
1850.
L.pilula C. B.
Ad.
Contrib.
Conch.
244.
1852.
L. Sechellensis Orb.
Voy.
Am.
Merid.
384.
L. Cumingii Ad.
and Ang.
Zool.
Proc.
426 t. 37 f. 20.
1863.
L. serrata Orb.
Voy.
Am.
Merid.
384.
Moll.
Cuba ii.
295 t. 27 f. 37 39.
1853.
L. ornata Reeve Icon.
sp.
48.
1850.
L. ornatissima Orb.
Toy.
Am.
Merid.
384.
New England to Brazil W. Coast N. and S. America E. Coast of Asia Seychelles Isl.
Bourbon Australia.
1 39.
L. divaricata Linn not of Lam.
etc.
Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
xii.
1120.
1767.
L. digitaria Poli not Linn.
Test.
Utr.
Sicil.
t. 15 f. 25.
1791.
1 It is very curious to observe that most of the above distinguished authors finding that the West Indian divaricata of Lamarck Gmelin and Chemnitz is distinct from the European divaricata of Linn. have each immediately rechristened the former without troubling themselves to ascertain whether any one else had previously made the same discovery.
To this carelessness and to the insane desire to describe species are to be ascribed the terrors of the science to the novitiate who in nine cases out of ten is frightened at the very threshold by an heterogeneous mass of a hundred thousand names representing probably not more than onefifth that number of species.
Long and familiarly known to Conchologists as this species is they have permitted nearly all of the above synonyms to stand as distinct species.
The geographical range is great but well established by numerous authorities.
1872.
Cardium discors Mont.
Test.
Brit.
37.
1803.
L. undularia S. Wood.
Crag.
Foss.
844.
L. commutata Phil.
Enum.
Moll.
Sicil.
i.
32 t. 3 f. 15 183G.
L. arcuata Mont.
Test.
Brit.
85 t. 3 f. 2.
1803.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
61.
1850.
Europe.
40.
L. gibba Gray Ann.
Philos.
136.
1825.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
54.
1850.
L. spheeroides Conrad Join.
Phil.
Acad.
vi.
262 t. 9 f. 10.
1831.
L. divaricata part.
 Chemn.
Conch.
Cab.
vi.
t. 13 f. 130.
1782.
Senegal.
Subgenus Codakia Scopoli.
Introd.
Hist.
Nat.
1777.
Lentillaria Schum.
Essai jNov.
Syst.
147.
1817.
41.
L. Antillarum Reeve Icon.
sp.
37.
1850.
West Indies.
42.
L. bella Conrad Jour.
Acad.
Phil.
vii.
254 1.
19 f. 11.
1837.
L. fibula Reeve Icon.
sp.
4.
1850.
L. munda A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
225.
1855.
L. ramulosa Gould Bost.
Proc.
iii.
276.
1850.
Moll.
U. S. Expl.
Exped.
415 f. 523.
1852.
California Sandwich Isles Australia
43.
L. cancellaris Phil.
Zeit.
Mai.
21.
1846.
Mazatlan.
44.
L. imbricatula C. B. Adams Bost.
Proc.
ii.
9.
1845.
L. occidentalis Reeve Icon.
sp.
38.
1850.
L. pecten Reeve not Lam.
 Icon.
sp.
34.
1850.
L. pectinata C. B. Adams Contrib.
Conch.
243.
1852.
L. pectinella C. B. Adams Contrib.
Conch.
244.
1852.
West Indies.
45.
L. interrupta Lam.
Cytherea Anim.
s. Vert.
v. 574.
1818.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
5.
1850.
Fiji Torres Straits.
46.
L. lintea Conrad MSS.

Tampa Bay.
47.
L. minuta Desh.
Isl.
Reun.
20 t. 3 f. 47.
1853.
Isl.
Bourbon.
July 16 48.
L. nassula Conr.
Proc.
Philad.
Acad.
24.
1846.
Tampa Bay Flu.
49.
L. obliqua Reeve Icon.
sp.
42.
1850.
Chusan.
50.
L. parvula Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
36.
1861.
Bonin I. Loo Choo Hakodadi Australia.
51.
L. punctata Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
xii.
1134.
1767.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
2.
1850.
Mazatlan Panama.
52.
L. reticulata Poli Tellina Test.
Utr.
Sicil.
1 t. 20 f. 14.
1791.
L.pecten Lam.
not Linn.
Anim.
s. Yert.
v. 543.
1818.
Pteeve Icon.
sp.
38.
1850.
L. squamosa Desh.
Expl.
Sci.
Mor.
95.
Mediterranean W. Coast Africa.
53.
L. Reevei Desh.
Conch.
Ins.
Reun.
19 t. 3 f. 8 9.
1863.
Isle Bourbon.
54.
L. rugifera Reeve Zool.
Proc.
68.
1835.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
1.
1850.
Australia.
55.
L. scobinata Recluz Journ.
de Conch.
III.
252 t. 10 f. 6.
1852.
Guadaloupe.
56.
L. tigerina Linn Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
xii.
1133.
1T67.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
3.
1850.
L. exasperata Reeve Icon.
sp.
4.
1850.
L. costata Orb.
Moll.
Cuba.
ii.
296 t. 27 f. 40 42.
1853.
So.
Coast U. S. West Indies Brazil Amboyna Rumph.
 Nicobar Is.
Chernn.
Subgenus Miltha H.  A.
Ad.
Genera ii.
466.
1857.
57.
L. Childreni Gray Zool.
Jour.
i.
221.
1825.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
12.
1850.
Brazil.
Genus MYR.TEA Turton.
Couch dith.
133.
1822.
Cyrachsea Leach.
Gray Ann.
Mag.
1ST.
H. xx.
272.
1847.
1.
M. circinnata A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. ser.
iii. ix.
226.
1862.
Japan.
1872.
2.
M. decussata A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. ser.
iii. ix.
226.
1862.
Japan.
3.
M. delicatula A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. ser.
iii. ix.
226.
1862.
Japan.
4.
M. fabula Reeve Icon.
Lncina sp.
69.
1850.
Philippines.
5.
M. fimbriatula A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. ser.
iii. ix.
225.
1862.
Japan.
6.
M. gibba A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. ser.
iii. ix.
225.
1862.
Japan.
7.
M. lamellata A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. ser.
iii. ix.
226.
1862.
Japan.
8.
M. Layardi A. Adams Zool.
Proc 225.
1855.
Ceylon.
9.
M. muricata Chemnitz Tellina Conch.
Cab.
xi.
t. 199 f. 19456.
1799.
L. ochracea Reeve Icon.
sp.
44.
1850.
L. scabra Lam.
Anim.
s. Yert.
v. 542.
1818.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
45.
1850.
L. Nuttallii Conrad Jour.
A. N. S. Philad.
vii.
255 t. 20 f. 2.
1837.
Tumbez Peru to California.
10.
Myrtea obesula A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 3d ser.
ix.
226.
1862.
Japan.
11.
Myrtea plicatula A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 3d ser.
ix.
226.
1862.
Japan.
12.
Myrtea reticulata A. Adams Ann.
Mag.
N. H. 3d ser.
ix.
225.
1862.
Japan.
L8.
Myrtea seminula Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
36.
1861.
Hong Kong.
14.
M. spinifera Mont.
 Venus Test.
Brit.
577 1.
17 f. 1.
1803 Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
39.
1850.
July 16 Lucina Hiatelloides Philippi Enum.
Moll.
Sicil.
i.
32.
1836.
Astarte ornata Goldfiiss Petr.
Germ.
ii.
195 t. 135 f. 9.
Europe.
15.
M. Strangei A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
225.
1855.
Moreton Bay.
16.
M. venusta Phil.
Abbild.
und Beschreib.
ii.
206 Lucina t. 1 f. 2.
Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
15.
1850.
Bay of Manilla.
Genus PHILIS Fischer.
Jour.
Conch ix.
345.
1861.
P. Cumingii Fischer Jour.
Conch ix.
346.
1861.
Moluccas.
Genus LORIPES Poli.
Test.
Utr.
Sicil.
i.
31.
1791.
Anodontia Link Samml.
iii.
156.
1807.
1.
L. Anatelloides Reeve Icon.
sp.
19.
1850.
West Indies.
2.
L. assimilis Angas Zool.
Proc.
910 t. 44 f. 8.
1867.
New South Wales.
3.
L. barbata Reeve Icon.
sp.
15.
1850.
Hob.

4.
L. bullata Reeve Icon.
sp.
35.
1850.
Hab.f 5.
L. edentula Linn Mus.
Ulric 14.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
9.
1850.
L. chrysostoma Phil.
Zeit.
Malak.
ii.
181.
1845.
West Indies.
6.
L. edentuloldes Yerrill Am.
Jour.
Sci.
xlix.
226.
1870.
Gulf of California.
7.
L. Floridana Conrad Am.
Jour.
Sci.
1st ser.
xxiii.
344.
1833.
Pensacola Fla. 8.
L. globularis Lam.
Anim.
sansVert.
v. 544.
1818.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
53.
1850.
L. ovulum Reeve Icon.
sp.
58.
1850.
L. tumida Reeve Icon.
sp.
52.
1852.
New Caledonia.
9.
L. globulosa A. Adams.
1872.
7 10.
L. Guaraniana Orb.
Toy.
Araer.
Merid.
586 t. 84 f. 10 11.
Rio Janeiro.
11.
L. icterica Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
60.
1850.
Angas Zool.
Proc.
651.
1865.
So.
Australia.
12.
L. lactea Linn Syst.
Nat.
1119.
1767.
L. gibbosa not Gniel.
 Costa Cat.
21.
1829.
L. leucoma Turton Reeve Icon.
sp.
41.
1850.
Amphidesma lucinalis Lain.
Anim.
sans Vert.
v. 491 .
1818.
L.fragilis Phil.
Zeit.
Mai.
ii.
181 1845 Moll.
Sicil.
ii.
25 1844.
Yar.
L. Desmarestii Payr.
Cat.
Moll.
Corse.
44 1.
1 f. 19 20.
1826.
England Canary Islands Mediterranean.
13.
L. malum Reeve Icon.
sp.
26.
1850.
Philippines.
14.
L. ovum Reeve Icon.
sp.
21.
1850.
Philijijrines.
15.
L. Patagonica Orb.
Voy.
Am.
Merid.
587 t. 84 f. 16 77.
Patagonia.
16.
L. Philippiana Reeve Icon.
sp.
23.
1850.
L. edentula Philippi not Lamarck.
Hab.

17.
L. Philippinarum Hanley sp.
Shells.
1840.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
18.
1850.
L. corrugata Desh.
Guerin's Mag.
t. 82.
1843.
Singapore Bay of Manilla.
18.
L. pila Reeve Icon.
sp.
24 1850.
Hab.

19.
L. plicifera A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
225.
1855.
Borneo Loo Choo.
20.
L. rotata Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
32.
1861.
Loo Choo.
21.
L. vesicula Gould Bost.
Proc.
iii.
256.
1850.
Expl.
Exped.
414 f. 525.
Tonga Islands.
22.
L. Yilardebojena Orb.
Voy.
Am.
Merid.
587 t. 84 f. 14 15.
La Plata.
July 16 Genus CRYPTODON Turton.
Brit.
Bivalves 181.
1822.
Thyafira Leach Jeffreys Mai.
et Conch.
Mag.
ii.
42.
1829.
Axinus J. Sowerb r  Mineral Conch t. 314.
1823.
Ptychina Phil.
Moll.
Sicil.
15.
1836.
Clausina Jeffreys Ann.
 Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
xx.
18.
1847.
1.
C. Croulinensis Jeffreys Ann.
 Mag.
N. H. xx.
19.
1847.
Ibid.
3dser.ii.
122t.5f.2.
Skye and Shetland Islands.
2.
C. ferruginosus Forbes  Hanley Brit.
Moll.
ii.
60 t. 34 f. 1.
1853.
Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
63.
1850.
Kellia abyssicola Forbes Jgean Invert.
192.
Mediterranean to England.
3.
C flexuosus Mont.
Test.
Brit.
72 Tellina.
1803.
Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
62.
1850.
Axinus angulatus Nyst.
not Sowb.
Coq.
Foss.
Belg.
141 t. 6 f. 13.
Venus sinuosa Donov.
Brit.
Shells ii.
t. 42 f. 2.
Lucina sinuata Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
v. 543.
1818.
Cryptodon bisinuatus S. Wood Crag.
Moll.
Ptychina biplicata Phil.
Moll.
Sicil.
i.
15 t. 2 f. 4.
1 836.
European Seas.
4.
C. Gouldi Phil.
Zeit.
fur Malak.
74.
1845.
Gould Invert.
Mass.
2d edit.
100 f. 406.
1870.
Lucina jlexuosa Gould not Mont.
Invert.
Mass.
1st edit.
71f.52.
1841.
Thyasira Gouldi Stimpson Shells.
N. Eng.
17.
1851.
Massachusetts Connecticut.
5.
C. Japonicus Adams Ann.
 Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
ix.
227.
1862.
N. Japan.. 6.
C. Manchuric us Adams Ibid.
227.
1862.
Manchuria.
N. Japan.. N. Japan.
9.
C. polygonus Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
35.
1861.
Cape Good Hope 7.
C. oblongus Adams Ibid.
227.
1862.
8.
C. plicatus Adams Ibid.
227.
1862.
1872.
10.
C. Sarsii Loven Index Moll.
Scand.
1846.
Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
52.
1850.
Norway Siveden.
11.
C. serricatus Carpenter Philacl.
Proc.
57.
1865.
Sts.
of Fuca to Catalina Isld.
12.
C. suborbicularis Adams Ann.
and Mag.
N. H. ix.
227.
1862.
North Japan.
13.
C. subquadratus Adams Ibid.
227.
1862.
North Japan.
14.
C. subradiatus Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
35.
1861.
Simon's Bay.
15.
C. sulcatus Adams Ann.
and Mag.
N. H. ix.
227.
1862.
Manchuria.
16.
C. transversus Lucina Bronn.
Weinkauff Conchyl.
168.
1867.
Mediterranean.
Genus GAFRAEITJM Bolten.
Icon.
Museum Bolten.
1798.
Fimbria Miihlf.
Entwurf.
52.
1811.
Idothea Schum.
Essai Nov. Gen. 160.
1817.
Corbis Cuvier Regne Anim.
ii.
408.
1817.
1.
G. cffiLATUM A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
62.
1853.
Isld.
Luzon.
2.
G. elegans Deskayes.
3.
G. fimbriatum Linn.
Venus.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
xii.
1113.
1767.
Reeve Conch.
Syst.
t. 57.
Fiji Islands etc.
4.
G. scitulum A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
70.
1853.
Puerto Gallaro.
5.
G. Sowerbyi Reeve Zool.
Proc.
45.
1841.
Conch.
Syst.
t. 58.
Genus UNGULINA Daudin.
Bosc.
Hist.
Coq.
iii.
7G.
1802.
1.
IT.
alba Rang.
Hist.
Moll.
t. 44 f. 1 2.
1802.
Senegal.
2.
U. oblonga Bosc.
Hist.
Coq.
iii.
t. 20 f. 1 2.
1802.
U. rubra Roissy Buff.
de.
Sonn.
Moll.
t. vi.
f. 20 f. 1 2.
H. .
A. Adams Genera iii.
t. 114 f. 4 4a.
July 16 U. transversa Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
v. 487.
1818 Western Coast of Africa.
Genus SCACCHIA Philippi.
Moll.
Sicil.
ii.
27.
1844.
1.
S. elliptica Scacchi Tellina.
Osserv.
Zool.
ii.
14.
1833.
H. .
A. Adams Genera iii.
t. 814 f. 5.
5a.
Mediterranean.
2.
S. ovata Phil.
Enum.
Moll.
Sicil.
ii.lt.
t. 14 f. 9.
1844.
Kellia cycladia
Wood Crag.
Moll ii.
122 t. 11. f. 4.
Mediterranean.
Genus MYSIA Leach.
Menke Synopsis Method.
Edit.
2.
112.
1830 Diplodonta Bronn Ital.
Tertiiir geb.
9.
1831.
Sphserella Conrad Tert.
Foss.
17.
1838.
1.
M. abbreviata Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
32.
1861.
Hong Kong.
2.
M. alata Adams  Reeve Cyrenoida Yoy.
Sam.
80 t. 24 f. 12.
1850.
Corea.
3.
M. Americana Morelet.
4.
M. Brasiliensis Mittre Jour de Conch.
1.
240.
1850.
H.  A. Adams Genera iii.
t. 114 f. 6.
Bio Janeiro.
5.
M. bullata Dunker Novitates Conch.
76 t. 26 f. 13.
1865.
Ceylon.
6.
M. calculus Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
68 1850.
Gulf of Nicoya.
7.
M. Coreensis Adams  Reeve Cyrenoida.
Yoy.
Sam.
80 t. 22 f. 14.
1850 M. obliqua Gould not Philippi Otia.
Conch.
171.
Loo Choo Corea.
8.
M. Cumingii Sowerby.
9.
M. dolabrata Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
32 1861.
Cape Good Hope.
10.
M. fiqlina Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
32.
1861.
Japan.
11.
M. globulosa A. Adams Zool.
Proc.
226.
1855.
Moreton Bay.
1872.
12.
M. Gouldi Tryon.
M. obliqua Gould not Phil Bost.
Proc.
viii.
32.
1861.
Loo Choo.
13.
M. granulosa Dunker Zeit.
Mai.
iii.
1853.
Peurto Cabello.
14.
M. Gruneri Dunker Ind.
Tains.
55.
1853.
Guinea.
15.
M. Janeirensis Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
43.
1850.
Rio Janeiro.
16.
M. inconspicua Phil.
IT.
M. Indica Desk.
18.
M. LEUCOPHiEOTA Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
59.
1850.
Hob.
t 19.
M. lucintEFORMIS Yal.
Yoy.
Hoinbr.
et Jacq.
116 t. 3 f. 3.
1856.
Philippines.
20.
M. Moretonensis Desh.
21.
M. NovoZelandica Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
14.
1850.
New Zealand.
22.
M. obliqua Phil.
Zeit.
Mai.
20.
1846.
Mazatlan.
23.
M. oblonga Sowb.
24.
M. Pacifica Fischer Jour de Conch viii.
316 t. 13 f 3.
1860.
Pacific Ocean.
25.
M. Philippii Gay Hist.
Nat.
Chili vii.
354 t. 8 f. 5.
1854.
Chili.
26.
M. Philippinarum Sowb.
2T.
M. pisiformis Deshayes.
28.
M. punctata Say Amphidesma Jour.
Phil.
Acad.
ii.
308.
1822.
Southern Coast United States.
29.
M. rotundata Montagu Tellina Test.
Brit.
71 t. 2 f. 3.
1803.
Lucina rotundata Reeve Icon.
sp.
38 1S50.
1803.
Venus lupinus Brocchi Cat.
Foss.
Subapp.
Diplodonta dilatata Phil.
Moll.
Sicil.
i.
31 t. 4 f. 7.
1836.
Diplodonta Barleei Jeff'rej's Ann.
Nat.
Hist. Jan. 1858.
Glaucomene Montaguana Leach.
Synopsis 313.
Southern Coast of England to Mediterranean Sea Canary Is.
July 16 30.
M. Savignyi Vaillant Jour.
Conch xiii.
124 1865.
Bed Sea.
31.
M. semiaspera Phil.
Abbild.
Tellina 25.
1846.
Lucina orbella Gould Bost.
Proc.
iv.
90.
1851.
Lucina coelata Reeve Icon.
sp.
21.
1850.
Yar.
discrepans Carp.
Mazat.
Cat.
103.
1857.
Guayaquil Mazatlan to San Diego Col. 32.
M. semireticulata Orb.
Moll.
Cuba 41.
Cuba to Patagonia.
33.
M. Senegalense Reeve Icon.
Lucina Errata.
1850.
M. Adansoni Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
51.
1850.
Senegal.
34.
M. sPHiERicuLA Deshayes.
Australia.
35.
M. subglobosa C. B. Adams.
36.
M. subquadrata Carp.
Zool.
Proc.
230.
1855.
Mazatlan to Panama.
31.
M. subrugosa Dunker Zeit.
Mai.
183.
1848.
Novitates Conch.
15 t. 4 f. 1012.
Hob.

38.
M. trtgonula Brown Ital.
Tert.
Geb.
96 t. 3 f. 2.
Diplodonta apicalis Phil.
Enura.
Moll.
Sicil.
i.
31 t. 4 f. 6.
1836.
Lucina astartea Nyst.
Coq.
Foss.
Belg.
121 t. 6 f. 4.
Mediterranean Canary Islands.
39.
M. Yenezuelensis Dunker Zeit far Malak.
184.
1848.
Novitates Conch.
15 t. 4 f. 7 8 9.
Porto Gabello.
Subgenus Felania Recluz.
Jour de Conch ii.
60.
1851.
40.
M. Adamsi Angas Zool.
Proc.
910 t. 44 f. 9.
1867.
Port Jackson.
41.
M. Candeana Orb.
Moll.
Cuba ii.
299 t. 27 f. 43 45.
Cuba.
42.
M. cornea Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
25.
1850.
M. sericata Reeve ibid.
sp.
55.
1850.
Gulf of Nicoya Mazatlan.
43.
M. diaphana Gmel. Syst.
Nat.
edit.
13 vi.
3292.
1790.
Le Felan Adanson Moll.
Senegal 227 t. 16 f. 8.
1757.
Senegal.
1872.
44.
M. friabilis Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
51.
1850.
Hab.

45.
M. Jacksoniensis Angas Zool.
Proc.
910 t. 44 f. 10.
1861.
Port Jackson.
46.
M. nitens Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
51.
1850.
Ins.
Muerte.
41.
M. rosea Recluz Jour de Conch ii.
12 t. 2 f. 1012.
1851.
W. Coast Africa.
48.
M. tellinoides Reeve Icon.
Lucina sp.
56.
1850.
West Indies.
49.
M. usta Gould Bost.
Proc.
viii.
32.
1862.
Hakodadi Bay.
Unidentified Luctnide.

L. Antarctica Phil.
Mai.
Blatt.
i.
166.
1851.
Sis.
Magellan.
L. lenticula Gould Bost.
Proc.
iii.
252.
1850.
Patagonia.
L. granulosa C. B.
Ad.
Bost.
Proc.
ii.
9.
1845.
West Indies.
July 16 SHELLS OF HERKIMER AND ADJACENT COUNTIES IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
BY JAMES LEWIS.
At various times I have prepared catalogues and other papers relating to the shells of this region.
The latest catalogues of shellbearing mollusca of Herkimer and adjacent counties was printed in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 1860.
Since that date several species have been found which previously had not been noticed.
Corrections have also been made of species wrongly named.
A few rare landshells have been detected in obscure retreats where the progress of civilization has not reached them.
For convenience of reference I arrange the species alphabetically without following the most recent classification my object being geographical distribution rather than classification.
Amnicola Cincinnatiensis 
Anthony.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
In the rivers this shell sometimes attains remarkable size.
Specimens submitted to Mr. Tryon were pronounced to be Cincinnatiensis or new.
I do not feel disposed to quote this as a new species on account of its size for the reason that other shells not recognized as new species sometimes attain remarkable size in this region.
A. lustrica Say.
Schuyler's Lake Otsego County Little Lakes Herkimer County  Smith's Pond Litchfield Herkimer County  Erie Canal.
The shells found in Erie Canal are doubtlessly introduced.
Have been seen there only on one occasion 1869.
A. pallida Hald.
Lakes rivers and canal.
I can distinguish these shells from those shells of Massachusetts called A. porata Say by Gould only by their color due to locality.
Ancylus fuscus Adams.
Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes New York.
Ancylus parallelus Hald.
Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes New York.
1872.J Ancylus tardus Say.
Mohawk River.
Found under stones along the margin of the stream at low water.
I have found them only during the fall months.
None could be found in 1811.
Anodonta edentula Say.
Mohawk River and Erie Canal  also streams running south to the Susquehanna River.
Anodonta fluviatilis Lea.
In ponds and streams near Schuyler's Lake.
Anodonta imbecilis Say.
Erie Canal.
Very scarce and small.
Anodonta lacustris Lea.
Schuyler's Lake Little Lakes Smith's Pond and a small pond at Herkimer.
 small variety occurs in a marshy creek on the hills eight miles south of Mohawk.
Anodonta Lewisii Lea.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
During the last ten j'ears this species has been very nearly exterminated in the canal affected no doubt by chemicals introduced in the armory sewage at Ilion.
Anodonta subcylindracea Lea.
Erie Canal Mohawk River and ponds at Herkimer.
Not abundant.
Anodonta undulata.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
Scarce.
Bythinella obtusa Lea.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
In the rivers this species sometimes grows very large it is usually much larger here than specimens I have seen from other localities.
Carychium exiguum Say.
On moist laud in the Yalley of the Mohawk.
I have not found it abundant elsewhere.
Goniobasis livescens Menke.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
The shells vary exceedingly under the influences of station.
The shells are characterized i here as elsewhere by a weak epidermis easily worn off.
The species has no doubt been introduced from western waters by way of the canal.
It is extremely abundant on rocks and hardJuly 16 clay banks in the Mohawk Paver preferring swift water.
I have no doubt a variety of this species furnished the type of Mr. Tryon's Gon.
Haldemani.
Goniobasis virginica Gmelin.
Common enough in the canal at long intervals.
Has no doubt been introduced since 1856.
Is said to abound in the Hudson River and in streams near Buffalo.
Is very seldom found in the Mohawk River.
In 1871 I found specimens which attain nearly the size of adults of this species but which exhibit colors and forms somewhat unlike it.
They seem to blend the colors of Trypanosoma subulare and Goniobasis livescens and approximate the form and size of Gon.
virginica.
I am persuaded by the circumstances attending them that they are hybrids and probably derived from Gon.
virginica and perhaps both the other two mollusca just named.
The supposed hybrids are not found apart from virginica.
Feeling unwilling to assume the responsibility of suggesting hybridity in a case which others might have settled by proposing a new species I submitted specimens to Mr. Charles M. Wheatley for his opinion.
I feel privileged to say that Mr. Wheatley assents to my view respecting the shells.
Helix albolabris Say.
A common species.
A variety with a tooth is found in the town of Litchfield.
A single reversed specimen was found near Mohawk in June 1811.
Helix alternata Say.
This is the most abundant Helix of this region.
It does not offer any notable varieties.
Helix arborea Say.
Formerly somewhat abundant but now extremely rare in the valley of the Mohawk.
Helix chersina Say.
Damp grounds along the valley of the Mohawk.
This species is rare and very few have been seen for many years.
Helix concava Say.
Somewhat abundant in damp ravines.
Helix dentifera Binney.
Found in ravines in the town of Litchfield 1871.
Only a very 1872.
few specimens have been found.
Some of these have the reflected margin of the aperture of a beautiful rose color.
Helix electrina Gould.
Formerly abundant but now quite scarce.
Helix fallax Say.
Two specimens from Litchfield 18U appear to belong to this species.
They differ essentially from the variety of tridentata found here heretofore regarded as fallax.
Helix fuliginosa Griffith.
Abundant in some of the ravines in Litchfield.
Helix hirsuta Say.
I have never found this species.
Col. E. Jewett of Utica informs me he had found it several years ago near New Hartford.
Helix indentata Say.
Always rare.
It has not been found for several years.
Helix intertexta Binney.
Found in ravines and on hillsides shaded by poplars.
It is not a very abundant species but may usually be obtained in the months of July and August.
Helix ligera Say.
I have found a single specimen only.
Dr. William Brown of Litchfield has half a dozen specimens taken from under an old fence on a hill in Litchfield.
The shells are smaller than typical ligera and the apex is less pointed.
It may be placed between typical ligera and demissa and seems to identify these forms as varieties of one type.
Helix lineata Say.
A rare species.
Scarcely twenty living specimens have been found since 1854.'
Since the above was written Dr. Brown has presented numerous specimens found in Litchfield.
Helix inornata Say.
Common in ravines.
Apparently more abundant than in former 3 r ears.
Helix minuscula Binney.
A rare species.
Wet land in the Mohawk Valley.
July 16 Helix minutissima Lea.
A few specimens have been found in Litchfield by Dr. Brown 1871.
Helix nitida Mull.
Usually found abundantly on wet ground near streams ponds and lakes.
More common in the valley of the Mohawk.
Helix palliata Say.
Not abundant.
Occurs somewhat more plentifully in the Litchfield ravines than elsewhere.
Helix perspectiva Say.
Litchfield very scarce.
1871.
Helix pulchella Meill.
Common on damp soil in many localities.
Helix Sayii Binney.
Common in ravines but not so abundant as to be found without laborious search.
Helix striatella Anthony.
Sometimes very numerous in the valley usually not abundant elsewhere.
Helix tridentata Say.
A small variety.
Common in ravines.
Helix thyroides Say.
Seen only in the Mohawk Yalley.
Col. Jewett of Utica finds this species abundant and associated with albolabris by the side of the railroad embankment seven miles east of Utica.
The few specimens I have found occurred in an alder swamp west of the Mohawk.
Lymnaea catascopium Say.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
I have seen a few shells evidently referable to this species in a small lake in the south part of Herkimer County.
Lymnaea columella Say.
Lakes.
Not abundant.
Lymnaea desidiosa Say.
Common.
Lymnaea elodes Say.
Stagnant water in various localities.
1872.
Lymnaea gracilis Say.
Schuyler's Lake.
At times very abundant.
Usually scarce.
Lymnaea humilis Say.
Less abundant than desidiosa.
Lymnaea pallida Adams.
Little lakes.
Very scarce.
Lymnaea stagnalis Say.
Traces of this species have been found in the lakes elsewhere named.
A single dried specimen with the soft parts was found in the Erie Canal spring of 1871.
Probably introduced from Cayuga Lake.
Lymnaea umbilicata Adams.
None have been seen for many years.
All that have been found inhabited a pool of stagnant water in a wood lot that has long since been cleared and the pool dried up.
Margaritana marginata Say.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River  not abundant.
Margaritana rugosa Barnes.
More abundant than the preceding in the same localities.
Margaritana undulata Say.
Single specimens have been found in the Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
The species abounds in streams emptying into Schuyler's Lake.
Melantho decisus Say.
Inhabits Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes without any associate species.
Found also in the Erie Canal and Mohawk River with the two species next named.
A few reversed specimens have been found.
Melantho integer Say.
The opercle of the adult has the form of that of 31. ponderosus Say.
I am inclined to regard these shells as varieties of jjonde rosus.
Reversed and malformed specimens occur sometimes in considerable numbers in the Erie Canal.
Largest shell found is over two inches long.
Melantho rufus Haldenian.
This species as well as integer has evidently been introduced July 16 fiere but at a more recent date.
No shells of this species have been found here earlier than 1855 since which time they have gradually increased in size and numbers.
The largest shell yet found is 1.83 inches long.
It is in the collection of Mr. Charles M. Wheatley of Phoenixville Pa. Physa heterostropha Say.
Common in rivers and streams also in stagnant water.
Some of the varieties simulate the forms of gyrina ancillaria and integra but I do not think from all I have seen that either of those species can be entered here.
Physa hypnorum Drap.
A small variety.
Not common.
Planorbis armigerus Say.
Sometimes very abundant in stagnant water.
It is not constant in the stations where found.
Planorbis bicarinatus Say.
Erie Canal Mohawk River Schuyler's Lake Little Lakes and Smith's Pond.
Shells found in Smith's Pond are very white like ivory.
Those found in Little Lakes are small and pale but not so white as those of Smith's Pond.
Planorbis campanulatus Say.
Lakes and ponds.
The few found in Smith's Pond are white like bicarinatus in the same pond.
Planorbis deflectus Say.
Lakes.
Not abundant.
Planorbis exacutus Say.
Lakes.
Not abundant.
Planorbis parvus Say.
Stagnant water.
Sometimes rarely abundant.
Planorbis trivolvis Say.
Canal rivers lakes and stagnant water.
Planorbis hirsutus Say.
Schuyler's Lake.
Rare.
Pisidium abditum Haldeman.
I think P. variabiles Prime may be included under this species as a synonym.
The shells occur in a great variety of stations.
1872.
Pisidium aequilaterale Prime.
Ditches and Erie Canal.
Sometimes plenty.
Pisidium compressum Prime.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River  also lakes and ponds.
Pisidium ventricosum Prime.
The shells of this region are between ventricosum and subrotundatum Prime.
I am inclined to believe subrotundatum is a small variety of ventricosum.
My local specimens were obtained from a stagnant pool near Mohawk and from Little Lakes.
Pisidium virginicum Bgt.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
Pupa contracta Say.
Damp flat lands Mohawk Valley.
Pupa pentodon Say.
Damp flat lands Mohawk Valley.
Somatogyrus subglobosus Say.
Erie Canal.
Introduced since 1860.
This species comes from the west and in a very few years has become numerically more abundant than any other mollusc in the canal.
Sphaerium croceum Lewis.
I described this species many years ago.
Mr. Prime puts it in the synonyms of one of his species S. secure.
Since the publication of Mr. Prime's papers I have had opportunity to study S. croceum and find it in very different circumstances from those which determine the habits of S. secure typical specimens of which I have collected in Massachusetts.
My shells are found usually in coarse angular gravel anchored by a byssus.
They are more abundant in a small stream that connects the two  Little Lakes in the south part of this county than elsewhere.
Sphaerium fabale Prime.
Small stream in the town of Litchfield Herkimer County headwaters of the Unadilla River.
Found in the fall of 1871.
Brought to notice by Dr. Litchfield.
Sphaerium occidentale Prime.
Stagnant waters subject to drying.
Not unusually found alive in the soil of dried stations.
July 16 Sphserium rosaceum Prime.
This shell I proposed as  Cyclas errans a number of years ago.
Mr. Prime puts it in his synonymy of S. rosaceum.
It seems to me however that the habits of this mollusc are more like those of S. partumeium Sa r  which species is usually found in stagnant water while Mr. Prime's rosaceum is a river shell.
My shells are the most fragile of their class that I have seen.
From my present knowledge of species and their habits I am induced now to reclaim my species.
I have found these shells usually adhering to the trunks of the dwarf buttonball growing in a stagnant pool  a more solid variety sometimes occurs in ditches.
Sphserium simile Say.
Lakes.
Abundant.
Sphaeriuni solidulum Prime.
Mohawk River.
Not plenty.
Spkaerium striatinum Lamarck.
Mr. Say's description of Cyclas edentula if read with the understanding that his idea of the anterior and posterior of bivalves was the reverse of the present usage will be found to accord to the shells here referred to.
This species occurs in the outlet of Schuyler's Lake in swift water among gravel while S. simile occurs in still water in mud in the same stream.
A recent writer supposes striatinum to be the young of simile.
This is an error.
S. striatinum occurs as far east as the Connecticut River at Springfield Massachusetts and is found in many of the larger streams in New York Ohio and States westward.
Is very abundant in the Erie Canal less so in the Mohawk River.
It has been found in Oneida Lake.
F. E.
Spinner.
Sphseriuni transversum Say.
Sometimes abundant in the canal.
A few may be found in late summer months in the Mohawk River.
Evidently a western species introduced though known since 1853 to inhabit the canal.
Succinea aurea
Lea.
A small orangecolored species found sometimes in the month of June around the  Little Lakes may be aurea.
The species has not been authoritatively determined.
Succinea avara Say.
A large variety sometimes 1120 inch long is found on the moist muddy banks of the Mohawk River sometimes very plenty some8 times rare.
Smaller shells abound along watermargins on the hill regions south at Little Lakes and at Schuyler's Lake.
Dr. Brown finds it in Litchfield.
Succinea obliqua Say.
Damp shaded grounds along the Mohawk.
This species is sometimes found on vegetation and trees several feet from the ground.
S. Tolfeniana Lea has similar habits and has been found on appletrees or hillsides near woods.
Succinea ovalis Gould.
Margins of ditches river banks lakeshores c. Sometimes very abundant.
Succinea Totteniana Lea.
Inhabits ravines and hillsides wooded.
Is nearly as large as obliqua and has similar arborial habits.
Trypanosoma subulare Lea.
Erie Canal and Mohawk River.
Prefers still water and a muddy slope.
Very abundant.
Unio cariosus Say.
Mohawk River and Erie Canal.
Scarce.
Unio complanatus Lea.
Canal rivers muddy streams c but not in lakes.
Our most abundant species.
Unio lutiolus Lam.
Mohawk River.
Erie Canal rarely.
It is probably more abundant in the river a few miles below Little Falls.
Unio radiatus Lam.
Lakes.
The only Unio found in Little Lakes and Schuyler's Lake though complanatus occurs in the outlet of Schuyler's Lake and in streams emptying into the lake.
Unio Tappanianus Lea.
Mohawk River.
Abundant only at times.
Some cause not understood makes them scarce only in exceptional seasons as is the case with many other molluscs.
Valvata tricarinata Say.
Erie Canal Mohawk River Schuyler's Lake and Little Lakes.
In  Little Lakes the shells are varied  bicarinata and simplex occurring as prevailing forms in the upper lake  along the marshy borders V. sincera Say occurs.
I am disposed to believe sincera is only a variety of tricarinata and it owes its deviation from the usual forms to the influence of station. 
V.sincera n is found  in marshes in Michigan.
Vertigo Bollesiana Morse.
On vegetation by roadside margin of a swamp in Litchfield 1871.
Those I have are from Dr. Brown.
Vertigo milium 
Gould.
A small species is sometimes found among the drift floated by the rivers at high water in the spring near Mohawk.
Vertigo ovata Say.
Litchfield with V. Bollesiana 1871.
It may possibly also occur in the valley but specimens heretofore regarded as this species were referred by Morse to the following species.
Vertigo ventricosa Morse.
Sometimes found alive in bogs.
Oftener found dead in the highwater drift floated into windrows by the river.
Vitrina limpida Gould.
In November and December 1864 I found immense numbers of large fine specimens of this Vitrina along the shaded slopes of a ditch on the flats near Mohawk.
The soft parts were very dark.
Since that time no specimens of Vitrina have been seen near Mohawk though repeated search has been made for them.
Dr. Brown of Litchfield finds Vitrina in his 3ard.
His residence is on a rich soil the eastern slope of a hill at an elevation supposed to be about 1260 feet above the sealevel.
His specimens are not numerous but are apparently perennial.
1 Vivipara contectoides W. C. Binney.
A colony from Illinois planted in the Erie Canal fall of 1867 is now thriving.
A few specimens were found there in the spring of 1871 remarkable for their beauty and perfect development.
Zua lubrica Leach.
Stations are numerous but shells not abundant.
Mohawk K Y. Jan. 15 1872.
1 Since the preceding notes were written Dr. Brown lias presented numerous large adult specimens taken late in the fall of 1871.
The shells are apparently identical with those of the colony of 18G4 but are not so pale being slightly tinged with green.
The soft parts of Dr. Brown's specimens are not so dark as those found in 1864.
Similar variations in color have been observed in the soft parts of wellknown species of Succinea.
SHELLS OF TENNESSEE.
No.
2.
BY JAMES LEWIS M.D.
Since the publication of my papers on the Shells of the Holston River and on the Land Shells of Tennessee 1 a few supplementary species have come to my notice and conclusions have been reached respecting some of the operculate univalves that occur in the small streams and springs of Knox Blount Monroe and adjoining counties in Tennessee.
In this paper conclusions are presented as to what seem to be with only one or two exceptions known species.
For the identification of species and varieties in several instances thanks are due to Mr. Lea Mr. Wheatley Dr. Hartrnan and others.
Too much credit cannot be awarded to the enterprise and interest with which Miss Law has extended her explorations.
UNIONIDE.
Unio argenteus Lea.
Conasauga Creek.
Unio Cumberlandianus Lea.
Conasauga Creek and other streams.
Scarce.
Unio Conradieus Lea.
Conasauga Creek.
Unio Jonesii Lea.
Conasauga Creek.
A single specimen.
Unio pilaris Lea.
Holston and Clinch Rivers.
Unio Pybasii Lea.
Various creeks and streams.
Somewhat common.
Unio sparus Lea.
Various creeks and streams.
Scarce.
Unio tumescens Lea.
Holston and Clinch Rivers.
Not abundant.
Margaritana minor Lea.
Conasauga Creek.
Not abundant.
'D' 1 American Journal of Concliology.
Anodonta edentula Say.
Holston River.
Scarce.
CORBICULADE.
Sphaerium fabale Prime.
Turkey Creek near Concord.
Scarce.
Sphceriuni occidentale Prime.
Lyon's Bend Knox County.
Pisidium abditum Haldeman.
Pond Spring Monroe County  Haskell's Spring Knox County.
Pisidium compression Prime.
Pond Spring.
Rare.
Pisidium virginicum Bgt.
Turkey Creek a few large single valves Tellico River more abundant not large.
AQUATIC PULMONATES.
Lymnaea columella Say.
Sinking Creek.
Abundant.
Lymnaea desidiosa Say.
Pond Spring.
Abundant.
Other localities a few.
Lymnaea humilis 
Say.
A single specimen was taken alive from a rock high up on a bluff facing the Tennessee River in Roane County.
It may have strayed from a little spring of water trickling down the cliff a few feet awa r .
Physa heterostropha Say.
Specimens are usually found in the various parcels of shells taken from small streams and springs.
Physa hypnorum Drap.
A single specimen.
Station unknown.
Planorbis bicarinatus Say.
A few small specimens from a lagoon near Chilhower Mountain in Blount County.
Larger specimens in Tellieo River.
Planorbis parvus Say.
A few dead shells were sent for identification taken from some spring.
Two specimens evidently alive when taken have been found among other shells.
This class of shells is apparently scarce in the regions explored.
Ancylus Haldemani Bourgy.

Ilolston River.
No specific name was suggested for this shell in my previous paper.
It may possibly be A. obscurus Hald.
 if so the two names are probably synoii3'ms.
4 LAND SHELLS.
Helix arborea Say.
Blount and Monroe Counties.
Very scarce.
Helix clausa Say.
Blount County.
Among forty specimens was one having all the features of H. 3Iitchelliana Lea.
Helix demissa Binney.
The typical form is scarce.
The few I have secured are small and pale.
The larger shell of this group which in my previous paper I treated as a variety of ligera is proportionally a little more elevated and decidedly yellow.
Mr. W. G. Binney I am informed regards it as a variety of demissa.
It is apparently as distinct from the typical demissa as sculptiliss Bland is from indentata Sa This consideration induces me to reclaim for the larger shell the name acerra hesitatingly suggested in my previous paper.
I have a single specimen in no respect distinguishable from the typical demissa except by two teeth within as in gularis.
Helix gularis Say.
In my endeavors to find young specimens of this species among the numerous shells sent b r Miss Law I am constrained to regard as such the small depressed shells which in my former paper I referred to suppressa.
The shells hitherto regarded as suppressa differ so essentially from undoubted specimens of that species from Pennsylvania that I cannot unite them.
Among the shells of this type from Miss Law appear to be three varieties of gularis differing in size form and elevation.
A fourth form is more polished and subglobose with the umbilicus entirely closed.
It may be hereafter separated as a distinct species.
Helix hirsuta Say.
A common species accidentally omitted in former papers.
Helix indentata Say.
Blount Knox and Monroe Counties.
Very rare.
Helix infleeta Say.
A common species accidentally omitted in previous papers.
Helix lasmodon Phillips.
Besides the usual depressed form Miss Law reports a single .specimen elevated like some of the varieties of gularis.
Helix ligera Say.
A few well characterized specimens from Monroe County larger and paler than Ohio shells.
Helix Mitchelliana Lea.
A single shell.
See H.
clausa.
Helix profunda Say.
A single dead shell found on a bluff in Roane County.
Helix sculptilis Bland.
Monroe County.
Yery scarce.
Helicina orbiculata Say.
Byrd's Bluff Roane County.
Somewhat abundant.
Succina avara Say.
Single specimen only.
Monroe County.. OPEECULATED AQUATIC UNIVALVES.
Trypanostoma aratum 1 Lea or bicinctum Tryon.
Holston River.
Scarce.
Trypanostoma glandulum Anth.
Mel.
glans Anth.
Holston River.
This will I think prove to be a young Strephobasis.
Trypanostoma robustum Lea.
Holston River.
Trypanostoma Troostii Lea.
Holston River.
The species that follow are mostly from small streams and springs to which frequent references will be made  and to save space the various stations are here tabulated and references made to them in remarks on species by numbers.
Numbers on the right refer to species associated locally.
112 Knox County.
1.
Sinking Creek.
681012.
3.
Lea's Spring.
681012.
2.
Turkey Creek.
7891112.
4.
Campbell's Station.
7891112.
Blount County.
5.
Abram's Creek.
6.
Cox's Creek.
7.
Six Mile Creek.
8.
Pistol Creek.
2 11.
8 11.
4 12.
6781112.
9.
Cox's Spring.
10.
Brook running into Little Tennessee River 812.
8.
Monroe County.
11.
Bat Creek.
9.
22.
Cardin's Spring.
9 11.
12.
Conasauga Creek.
1.
23.
Cannon's Spring 8.
13.
Fork Creek.
89.
24.
Carmichael's Spring.
9 12.
14.
High Falls Conasauga 25.
Dougherty's Spring.
8 11.
Creek.
11 12 13.
26.
Elliott's Spring.
12.
15.
Ghormley's Branch.
27.
Honeysuckle Spring.
811.
Creek.
9.
28.
Marshall's Spring.
8.
16.
Henderson's Branch.
7 12.
29.
Pond Spring.
8.
17.
Powdermill Branch.
6 8.
30.
Rausin's Spring.
11.
18.
Brook running into Bat 31.
Rausin's Spring outlet.
1112.
Creek.
4 7 8  9 12.
32.
Sink Hole Creek.
6 9.
19.
Shady Grove.
Brook creek
or 811.
33.
Williams' Spring.
11.
20.
Tellico River.
13 1415.
34.
Wilson's Spring.
8.
21.
Clark's Spring.
8 12.
35.
Wilson's Spring outlet .
8.
IfcMinv  County.
36.
Athens.
811.
37.
Middle Creek.
8 12.
Roane County.
38.
Byrd's Bluff.
16.
41.
Periwinkle Branch.
5 11.
39.
Bowman's Spring.
11.
42.
Shanty Branch.
5.
40.
Cave Spring.
11.
43.
Brown's Spring.
8.
Rhea Court ty.
44.
Piney River.
111.
Loudon County.
45.
Thurston's Creek.
12.
Trypanostoma Lyonii Lea.
Localities 12 20 44.
Trypanostoma validum 
Anthony.
1 Loc.
5.
Trypanostoma fastigiatum 
Anthony.
1 Loc.
20.
The three supposed species above named seem to form a natural group with T. parvum Lea and like that species they are found associated with shells which seem to be a variety of Anculosa subglobosa Say.
It is possible some future writer may unite them as one species.
Trypanostoma N. S. Lea.
Localities 7 18.
Trypanostoma attenuatum Lea.
Localities 41 32.
A variable species which some of my correspondents call T. strigosum Lea.
Trypanostoma unciale Hald.
Localities 1 3 5 8 IT 32.
The species is defined as striate or carinate above.
I have separated from it all plicatestriate shells that have been referred to this species by my correspondents.
The largest shells occur in loc.
8  they are also variable some of them passing through phases referable to the next species to forms entirely free from striations and carinas.
The most perfect forms occur in loc.
17.
Trypanostoma Estabrookii Lea.
Localities 2 4 8 16 18.
The shells of loc.
18 are very fine perfect and slender  and have been referred by a correspondent to T. unciale.
The shells of loc.
16 are small and imperfect.
Goniobasis arachnoidea Anthony.
Localities 1 2 3 4 6 9 10 13 IT 18 19 21 23 25 27 28 29 35 36 37 43.
The local varieties are very perplexing and some of them could not have been identified but for the aid derived from shells of other localities.
Some of the various forms have been referred to Try.
unciale  others to Gon.baculum some of the more slender varieties have been referred to Gon.
carinifera Lam.
The shells of one locality 23 have been called an undescribed species of Trypanostoma.
Of two other localities 28 43 the shells have been supposed to be another undescribed species of Trypanostoma.
These shells bear a strong resemblance to Mr. 1 According to Mr. Wheatley.
Lea's figure of Melania perstriata and I have specimens of loc.
28 that were returned to me as perstriata.
Shells of loc.
10 bear a strong resemblance to Mr. Lea's figure of T. Sycamorense from which they are by implication supposed to be distinct.
Some of the least plicate specimens of loc.
2 are very like Mr. Lea's figure of Melania oblita and of course have been referred to Try.
unciale by my correspondents.
I unhesitatingly refer Mr. Anthony's Mel.
baculum as a synonym to Gon.
arachnoidea  baculum being the adult form arachnoidea the immature form  arachnoidea has priority  but at the same time I think a careful stiuty of the various shells which mayjetbe identified with arachnoidea will result in assiguing priority to some other name.
Goniobasis parruta Lea.
Localities 2 4 1 1 13 15 18 22 24 32.
This is also a variable species.
The largest specimens occur in loc.
2  the most perfect shells occur in loc.
18.
Goniobasis acutocarinata Lea.
Localities 1 3.
Goniobasis aterina Lea.
Localities 2 4 5 6 8 14 19 22 25 27 30 31 33 36 39 40 41 44.
Localities 2 4 produce remarkably perfect shells which my correspondents have differently named as graminea Hald.
 Saffordii Lea and aterina Lea.
Usually this species is much eroded.
Goniobasis castanea Lea.
Localities 1 2 3 4 7 8 9 14 16 18 21 24 26 31 37 45.
Localities 2 4 produce shells the upper whorls of which are smooth all the other localities produce shells which when perfect are slightly but variably carinate above.
Some of the varieties have been referred to Gon.
difficilis Lea but as that species is obsoletely plicate on the upper whorls the reference does not seem to have been well considered.
Localities 30 31 produce decallate shells that bear a strong resemblance to figures of Gon.
pulla lit' hut possibly not identical.
Some of the varieties have been referred to  Mel.
simplex Say.
I am not able to say the identification is conclusive.
Goniobasis instabilis Lea.
Locality 14.
I have the name from Mr. Lea.
The shells are all smooth which may account for their difficult identification.
Melantho rufus II a Id.
Locality 20.
Common.
Melantho docisus Say.
Locality 20.
Less common.
Pomatiopsis lapidaria Say.
Locality 38.
Not abundant.
Mohawk.
N. Y. Jan. 10 1872.
CATALOGUE OF THE FAMILY CHAMIDJE.
BY GEORGE W. TRYON JR. Family CHAMID.E Swainson.
Man.
Malacol 374.
1840.
Genus CHAMA Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
x.
1758.
The subgenus Arcinella of Schumacher adopted by H.  A. Adams has no systematic value the peculiarities on which it is founded recognizable at once in the t 7 pe species so fade away through the series of species that no distinct line of demarcation remains.
The species of Chama are very difficult owing to irregularit' of growth sculpture and coloring and I am convinced that the comparison of large suites of specimens would result in a wholesale reduction of the species.
Some of the earlier species described by Linnreus and Lamarck cannot be identified with an certainty at this dajr.
1.
C. aeruginosa Lamarck.
not identified.
2.
C. arcinella Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
xii. 1139.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
26.
1846.
Arcinella spinosa Schum.
Essai Nov. Gen. 142.
1817.
West Indies.
3.
C. aspersa Reeve Icon.
sp.
24.
1846.
Philippines.
4.
C. brassioa Reeve Icon.
sp.
31.
1847.
Scarcely distinct from C. Pacifica.
Philippines.
5.
C. Buddiana C. B. Adams Panama Shells 253.
1852.
Panama.
6.
C. CarditEformis Reeve Icon.
sp.
33.
1847.
Hab.

7.
C. cistula Reeve Icon.
sp.
51.
1847.
C. appressa Reeve Icon.
sp.
55.
1847.
Honduras.
8.
C. Corbierei Jonas Menke Zeitsch.
12G.
1846.
Savigny Desc.
Eg'pte t. 14 f. 8.
Red Sea.
9.
C. corrugata Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
305 t. 31 f. 7.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
9.
184G.
Real Llejos Central America.
10.
C. crenulata Lamarck.
not identified.
11.
C. cornucopia Reeve Icon.
sp.
22.
1846.
Red Sea.
12.
C. cristella Lamarck Anim.
s. Vert.
Reeve icon.
sp.
42.
1847.
Batavia South Australia.
13.
C. crocata Lamarck.
not identified.
14.
C. Claasseni Jonas Zeit.
Malak.
127.
1846.
Red Sea.
15.
C. decussata Lamarck.
not identified.
16.
C. divaricata Reeve Icon.
sp.
20.
1846.
Philippines.
17.
C. exigua Reeve Icon.
sp.
47.
1847.
Singapore.
AS.
C. echinata Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
305 t. 39 f. 5.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
35.
1847.
Porto Portrero Central America.
19.
C. exogyra Conrad Journ.
Philad.
Acad.
vii.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
38.
1847.
California Mexico.
20.
C. fibula Reeve Icon.
sp.
27.
1846.
Philippines.
21.
C. Florida Lamarck Anim.
s. Vert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
49.
1847.
Honduras.
22.
C. foliacea Quoy Voy.
Astrol.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
8.
1846.
Philippines.
23.
C. frondosa Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
302 t. 38 f. 1 2.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
1.
1846.
C. pmrpurascens Conrad.
W. Columbia to Mazallan.
24.
C. gryphoides Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
xii.
1139.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
43.
1847.
C. unicornis Phil not of Lam.
Moll.
Sicil.
i.
68.
G. asperella Deshayes Lamarck vi.
581.
Mediterranean.
25.
C. iostoma Conrad Jour.
Philad.
Acad.
vii.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
7 13.
1846.
G. pr'oducta Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
305 t. 39 f. 4.
G. coralloides Reeve Icon.
sp.
18.
1846.
G. eehinata Brod.
partim.
Zool.
Trans i.
306 t. 39 f. 67.
Sandivich Islands.
26.
C. Japonica Lara.
not identified.
27.
C. laciniata Adams  Reeve Y03.
Samarang.
China.
28.
C. Lazarus Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Edit.
xii.
1139.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
4.
1850.
C. damsecornis Lam.
Mauritius Ph ilippines.
29.
C. li.mbula Lam.
not identified.
30.
C. linguafelis Reeve Icon.
sp.
53.
1847.
Philippines.
31.
C. lobata Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
303 t. 38 f. 4 5.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
29.
1847.
West Indies.
 32.
C. Meyeri Jonas Zeit.
fur Malak.
iii.
127.
1846.
Bed Sea.
33.
C. multisquamosa Reeve Icon.
sp.
12.
1846.
Philippines.
34.
C. macrophylla Chemn.
Conch.
Cab.
vii.
149 t. 52 f. 514 515.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
6.
1846.
C. Lazarus Lam.
not Linn.
Anim.
s. Yert.
West Indies.
35.
C. nivalis Reeve Icon.
sp.
12.
1846.
Philippines.
 Mr. Reeve says that this locality is erroneous and that wellauthenticated specimens from China are in the British Museum  hut Mr. Broderip is correct as it is a common West Indian species.
The Chinese specimens must have made a long voyage before they were collected there.
36.
C. obliquata Reeve Icon.
sp.
28.
1846.
Philippines.
37.
C. Pacifica Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
303 t. 30 f. 1.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
15.
1846.
C Broderipii Reeve Icon.
sp.
2.
1846.
C. imbricala Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
304 t. 30 f. 2.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
3.
1846.
Lord Hood's Islands.
38.
C. Panamensis Reeve Icon.
sp.
45.
1847.
Panama.
30.
C. pellucida Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
302 t. 38 f. 3.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
32.
1847.
Peru to San Diego California.
40.
C. PRyETEXTA Reeve Icon.
sp.
46.
1847.
Hab.

Perhaps  C.frondosa Brod.
41.
C. planata Reeve Icon.
sp.
25.
1846.
Philippines.
42.
C. pulchella Reeve Icon.
sp.
10.
1846.
C. fimbriata Reeve Icon.
sp.
41.
1847.
Australia.
43.
C. radians Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
10.
1846 Hab.

44.
C. Reflexa Reese Icon.
sp.
16.
1846.
N. Australia.
45.
C. rubea Reeve Icon.
sp.
37.
1847.
Philippines.
46.
C. ruderalis Lam.
not identified.
47.
C. Ruppellii Reeve Icon.
sp.
30.
1847.
Red Sea.
48.
C. sarda Reeve Icon.
sp.
40.
1847.
Honduras.
40.
C. Senegalensis Reeve Icon.
sp.
5.
1846.
Senegal.
50.
C. sulpiiurea Reeve Icon.
sp.
14.
1846.
Philippines.
51.
C. sordida Brod.
Zool.
Trans i.
300 t. 30 f. 8 0.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
23.
1846.
Isle of Cuna Central America.
Doubtfully distinct from venosa Reeve.
52.
C. sinuosa Broil.
Zool.
Trans i.
303 t. 39 f. 11.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
11.
1846.
C. ferruginea Reeve Icon.
sp.
21.
1846.
West Indies to Brazil.
53.
C. spinosa Broil.
Zool.
Trans i.
306 t. 38 f. 8 9.
Reeve Icon sp.
44.
1847.
C.fragum Reeve Icon.
sp.
48.
1847.
C. Jukesii Reeve Icon.
sp.
39.
1847.
C. pellisphocse Reeve Icon.
sp.
54.
1847.
Lord Hood's I. to California Philippines Australia.
54.
C. tumulosa Reeve Icon.
sp.
52.
1847.
Honduras.
55.
C. variegata.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
50.
1847.
Honduras.
56.
C. venosa Reeve Icon.
sp.
34.
1847.
G. Janus Reeve Icon.
sp.
36.
1847.
Perhaps  G. sordida Broil.
Gallapagos Is.
CATALOGUE OF THE FAMILY CHAMETRACHJEIDJE.
BY GEORGE W. TRYON JR. Family CHAMETRACHiEIDE H.  A. Adams.
Genera of Recent Mollusca ii.
404.
1857.
Genus CHA.METRACHJEA Klein.
Ostracol.
149.
1753.
Hippopus Martini Verzeichn e. auserl.
Sam ml.
1773.
Tridacna Da Costa Elem.
Conch.
274.
1776.
Ghama sp.
Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
1.
C. elongata Lam.
Anim.
s. Yert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
2.
1862.
Var.
C. compressa Reeve Icon.
sp.
5.
1862.
Var.
C. elongatissima Bianconi Mem.
Acad.
Bologna vii.
t. 25 f. 2. .
Mozambique Ph ilippines.
A u 2f.at Wyoming Territory  CMLM BLUFFS FNF BlUF.
 of' r GENERAL VIEW OF DEAD PINE BLUFFS.
I AT.
40' li.
L0N6I04' w r ERTIARr SHELLS SHOWING LOCATION OF IMPLEMENTS FIREPLACES etc etc .
I04 W.L SCALE FOUR MILES TO 1 1 NO 2.
C. crocea Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
9.
1862.
Var.
C. Cumingii Reeve Icon.
sp.
7.
1862.
Var.
C. ferruginea Reeve Icon.
sp.
8.
1862.
Philippines.
3.
C. gigas Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
1.
1862.
C. mutica Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
C. rudis Reeve Icon.
sp.
4.
1862.
Indian and Pacific Oceans.
4.
C. serrifera Lam.
Anim.
sans Vert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
6.
1862.
Moluccas.
5.
C. squamosa Lam.
Anim.
sans Vert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
3.
1862.
Moluccas.
Doubtfully distinct from C. gigas Linn.
Genus HIPPOPUS Meuschen.
Mus.
Gevers 488.
1787.
Pelvis Muhlf.
Entwurf.
67.
1811.
Cerceis Gistel Naturg.
172.
1848.
1.
H. Hippopus Linn.
Chama.
Linn Syst.
Nat.
Ed.
xii.
1137.
H. equinus Meuschen Entwurf.
67.
1811.
H. maculatus Lam.
Anim.
s. Vert.
Reeve Icon.
sp.
1.
1862.
Eastern Seas.
May 7.
Mr. Vaux VicePresident in the chair.
Twelve members present.
Mr. Thomas G. Gentry called the attention of the Academy to what he regarded as a rare and remarkable case of hybridism which occurred between Macacus nemestrinus male and Macacus cynomolgus female.
After exhibiting an alcoholic specimen of the young and a stuffed specimen of the mother which was clearly identified as Ilacacus cynomolgus he detailed the leading characters of the two parents.
He stated that the male differed from the female in being more robust and of greater dimensions in the almost perfect smoothness of the face which is of a pale flesh color while in the female it is black and invested with a close grow T th of short black hairs  in the absence of a crest upon the head of the male which is a prevailing characteristic of the species 31. nemestrinus and its presence in the female which is a prominent feature of the species to which she belongs in color and lastly in the unequal development of the caudal appendage which in the male is about seven inches in length and densely clothed with long hairs while in the female it is more than twice the length and nearly naked for more than twothirds of its extent.
He further said that there could be no doubt of the genuineness of the case as the tw T o had been isolated from all other monkeys during the past two years.
Healso called the attention of the Academy to a fact which he believed not to be generally known and which goes far to show the close relationship between the Bimana and Quadrumana.
In this instance the menstrual flow as sometimes occurs in the human species continued at the regular periods up to the time of birth.
May 14.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentj'seven members present.
The following paper was presented for publication   Notice of some Crustacea from the Island of St. Martin W. I.
Collected by Dr. Van Rijgersma.
By T. Hale Streets U. S. N. Mr. Thomas Meehan observed that on several occasions before the Academy and other scientific bodies he had offered some facts and suggestions tending to prove that what are popularly termed Pine needles are not properly leaves but rather branchlets which through the real leaves becoming attached for nearly their whole length to the axis or stem had of necessity taken on themselves the offices of leaves.
He believed that many botanists had coincided with his views  but some very distinguished ones among others he believed his esteemed friend Prof. Asa Gray did not feel warranted in fully agreeing with him.
He was rather glad of this hesitation because it was an incentive to him to continue his observations and searches for new facts which might either weaken or confirm his original views.
He now wished to offer to the Academy two additional observations in favor of the axial origin of these socalled leaves.
In plants in general the leaves unfolded contemporaneously with the branches or axes.
He could not call to mind an instance where the axis first extended to its full length before the leaves ventured to push forth from the nodes.
The axial buds usually remained dormant until this final length was approached.
When this occurred or if anything happened to destroy the apex of the growing shoot then the axial buds pushed into growth and never to any great extent before.
In the Pine family we had the following axial experience.
The buds which bore the needles were axial buds situated at the base of the scale the adnated leaf as he maintained.
These buds remained nearly at rest until the axis had reached its full length and in this respect coincided with the axial buds of trees in general.
A pine tree in the spring season presented the appearance of an immense ehandelier with its long axial shoots as the naked burners.
In this respect it is apparent that regarding the fascicles of pine needles as branchlets the law of folial development coincidental with axial growth finds no exception in the Pine family.
The next striking consideration was one derived from the nature of the inflorescence.
In vegetable morphology the floral system of plants was made up of neither leaf nor axis separately but conjointly of both.
In the inflorescence of the pine the male catkins each took the place of a fascicle.
The axial bud at the base of the leaf scale instead of a bunch of needles developed as a spike of flowers.
This spike or catkin is metamorphosed needles.
If these needles were leaves merely we could hardly expect inflorescence to be formed from them.
It would be an exception to regular rule.
But regarding the needles of the pine as rather axis than leaf their development to flowers accords with general law  and he held that it was more philosophical to accept conclusions based on aeneral law.
than to hunt for new laws to account for apparent exceptions to general rule.
For his own part he felt there needed no further reasoning than he had offered at previous times  but he thought perhaps these additional suggestions might have weight witli other minds that had not yet decided as fully as he had done.
124 proceedings op the academy op May 21.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirty members present.
The following papers were presented for publication   Notes on Lingual Dentition of certain species of North American Land Shells.
By Thos.
Bland and Wm.
G. Binne. 
On a new California Pulmonata.
By John G. Cooper M. D. Prof.
Cope called attention to the anterior curvature of the horn in the common deer Cariacus virginianus and said it was a point of interest to determine whether the true axis or beam was curved forwards or not.
On comparison with the Cariacus macrotis of the plains it was found that the true beam was partly erect and was branched as already shown by Baird while an anterior snag was directed forward marking exactly the curved line of the axis of the C.virginianus.
The curvature of the latter was then shown to be due to the predominant development of this large anterior snag and the partial suppression of the true beam.
He then exhibited a spike or second 3'ear's horn of the C. virginianus and alluded to the occasional occurrence of permanent spikehorned deer in the Adirondack region of New York.
He said Alexander B. Lamberton a gentleman who had spent much time in that region confirmed the statements that had been made as to their existence but said that they were rare.
He then exhibited a pair of simple beams or spikes of three feet in length which had been taken from a blacktailed deer 0. macrotis shot within three miles of the Kansas Pacific R. R. in Kansas.
They had evidently belonged to an adult animal and were the first examples of spikehorned deer of that species which had been recorded.
Prof.
Cope further remarked that observation on varieties and variation was at the basis of a true system of creation and that while it was often necessary for the sake of systematic clearness to unite many varieties under one specific head we did not in this way escape their recognition and study.
He said that the necessary exactness of systems had concealed from many the fact as well as the meaning of variation.
There were and had been for years two schools of naturalists whose modes of treating natural history subjects were quite different.
In reference to these modes they might be called the technical and natural schools.
As however the claim of the latter to better appreciation of natural affinities and classifications appeared to him to be doubtful he thought theA r had better be called the pseudonatural school while the socalled technical naturalists were such on account of their pursuing an analytic method.
The pseudonatural school decided on the affinities of organic tjpes by their physiognomy or their fades habit and the like reading nature with an artist's eye and attaining opinions of systems without the trouble of much anatomical study.
They' protested against the strict adhesion to  technical or structural characters saying that they violate  natural affinities oftener than support or express them.
Thus their systems become plsiognomical and please the eye by their appearance rather than the mind by their expression of exact structural relations  in accordance with this s r stem species were always well distinguished and could not have been derived from common parents but that nevertheless everything  runs together and that the higher groupings are mainly  opinionative in fact that although nature has a beautiful system we do not yet understand it and that it is too soon to generalize.
Perhaps this obscurity has its advantages as it certainly shelters in its profundities any theory of creation its supporters may choose to adopt.
Hence they might be called the Anaesthetic school or the Ansesthesiasts si' alidr.
The unnatural school think that the wav of determining the origin and relations of an object is to ascertain of what it is composed.
This was to be accomplished b analysis of all its appearances and an account taken of every character.
In this way the structure is learned and a system based on anatomy is established.
As anatomical systems are unnatural and anatomical characters very difficult to discover by the ansesthesiasts they regard such systems with disfavor although they admit that they constitute the only correct classification of bones teeth brains etc.
The analysts even find that species having very close specific relationships occasionally present different generic characters.
This was proof positive to the Anoesthesiasts of the errors of the technical school.
But it was still less to their credit that they laid stress on variations and monstrosities which were mere accidents.
The fact that the analyzers bglieved in the development of species showed their systems to be unnatural.
The speaker did not take sides but observed that in order to ascertain the relations of a species he usually examined it first.
Mr. Thomas Meehan said he had recently read in the published Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society the report of a discussion between Professor Cope and Mr. Eli K. Price in regard to the Hypothesis of Evolution.
Mr. Price appeared to lay much stress on the assumed fact that variations were rather the result of interference by art with the regular flow of natural laws and that it was therefore unphilosophical to attempt to found any theory of evolution on the facts of variation.
For himself he might say that no theory of development so far as he had been able to understand them had satisfied his mind  but that there was a continual growth of form wholly unaided by man or any external agency he thought fully warranted by numerous facts.
He believed that this natural and inherent growth force in relation to form was greater than even some who believed they understood the laws governing evolution were disposed to admit.
Not only intelligent minds like that of Mr. Price but even evolutionists like Professor Gray and Dr. Engleman judging from the last edition of the Manual of Botany seemed indisposed to allow great power to inherent change  for whenever a marked change occurred and there happened to be distinct forms at each end of the line w 7 e find the fact assumed that such change could only occur by outside influences.
Thus we find in a recent notice of Rubus neglectus of Peck the expression  hybrid 
Also in relation to the oaks Quercus tridentata Q.quinqueloba Q. Leana Q. heterophylla probably some or all of them hybrid  and so on in other instances.
He wished to claim no credit for any particular original discoveries but thought it had fallen to his fortune perhaps as much as to that of any one to remark that art both in the animal and vegetable world had had more credit awarded to it in the matter of change than it w r as entitled to.
He had shown long ago in the American Naturalist that even in the production of double flowers usually deemed peculiarly the privilege of the florist nature herself was the peer of the gardener.
He had shown by direct evidence that some things had been found double in a wild state and the great probability that the double forms of so many species of such a common thing as the Buttercup Ranunculus and other weeds never cultivated originated naturally in the same way and in numerous papers and remarks before this institution and in other places he had shown that there was as great variation in those genera which had only one species in a given locality as there are in the cases of the Oaks and Blackberries before referred to.
At the present moment he remembered especially a short paper in the American Naturalist on the Oxeye daisy  Chrysanthemum leucanthemum and in the Proceedings of the Academy on  Variations in Epigrea repens.
There are no allied species here to hybridize with.
They are far out of the way of cultivation.
Neither gardening nor hybridization can by any possibility have anything to do with the great variations Ave see.
But he would now offer another contribution to this Class of facts.
He had journeyed last summer several hundred miles through the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and had noted remarkable variations in the only species of Oak in that region Que
'cus Douglassii or Q. Neomexicana of some authors.
The first plants he found of this occupied large clumps in flat open spaces and grew only about three feet high.
He felt sure he had several species and collected specimens accordingly.
One form had the leaves so much like the Quercus Cerris of Europe that branches of the two mixed together could scarcely be separated others came near in their resemblance the European Quercus robur  and again some near Q. alba of our own country.
Did these species grow there we should assuredly have the remark by the esteemed author of the  Manual.
 Probably a hybrid between Q. cerris and Q.
alba.
It was only after many successive days of acquaintance with it during which it had ranged from a low bush to a small tree from leaves deepl' lobed to leaves almost entire from leaves of a deep shining green to leaves of a glaucous gray trees with fruit pretty well matured to others only just commencing to set their fruit from long to short pedunculated elongated to subrounded fruit and so on through other changes that he was forced to the conclusion that he had but one species to deal with and such he believed would be the conclusion of any eareful botanist.
Whatever may be ultimately accepted as the correct theory of evolution the fact of evolution so great as to produce forms equal to the most decided species could scarcely be disputed  and this too as such cases as this of Quercus Douglassii proved entirely removed from the hand of art or the agency of hybridization.
May 28.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirtysix members present.
The following gentlemen were elected members of the academy Jos.
H. Ogden Jos.
E. Gillingham D. S. Holman J. W. Miller P. P. Morris and T. M. Drown M.D.
Mons.
E. Riviere of Menton France w r as elected a correspondent.
On favorable report of the committees the following papers were ordered to be printed.
Permission having been granted Prof.
Cope exhibited some vertebrae of a Plesiosauroid reptile and those of a smaller species probably a Glidastes which were found in close proximity near Sheridan Kansas by Joseph Savage of Leavenworth.
According to this gentleman the vertebral column of the Glidastes Was found immediately below that of the Plesiosauroid and in a reversed position as though it had been swallowed by the latter or larger reptile.
The largest vertebrae of the Glidastes were about threequarters the length and onefourth the diameter of those of the Plesiosauroid and the animal must have furnished a large or at least a long mouthful for its captor.
The bones of the Glidastes  were not in good condition but resembled those of G. cineriarum Cope though smaller.
The Plesiosanroid was new to science being the third species discovered in the Cretaceous of the Niobrara group.
Specifically it was nearest to the Elasmosaurus platyarus.
Cope but was readily distinguished by the relativel' shorter cervical vertebrae and the regular acute ridges on the exterior surfaces near the margin of the articular faces as well as the less contracted form of all the vertebral centra.
As the neural arches and the cervical parapoplvyses were not coossified with the centra the species was referred to the genus PJesiosaurus with the name P. gulo Cope and the following description Specimen represented by eleven cervical thirteen dorsal and seven or eight other vertebrae with portions of scapular and pelvic arch and ribs.
The cervicals are longer than wide and considerably compressed inform anteriorly but depressed posteriorly this is partly due to pressure but not wholly and it is likety that the posterior centra are about as transverse as in Gimoliasaurus magnus Leidy while the anterior are relatively several times as long.
In the length the latter resemble the English Plesiosauri.
in which the centra are also compressed.
The compressed anterior centra exhibit a ridge on the side above the middle.
A more massive ridge extends between the articular extremities at the lower part of the side and presents a pit for the parapophysis.
The pit for the neural spine is of nearly similar size.
Where the cervicals begin to be depressed two foramina appear near together on the inferior face and the articular extremities display an open obtuse emargination below.
They are also emarginate for the neural canal above so as to have a form approaching a transverse figure 8.
In the large posterior cervicals the sides are contracted both below and at the sides.
In all the cervicals the articular faces are a little concave in the larger with some median convexities.
In none of the dorsals preserved are the diaphopyses seen to issue from the centra hence they are probably not posterior in position.
The centra soon become smaller than those of the posterior cervicals and are subround in section with a wellmarked emargination for the neural canal.
The sides are gently concave and are without angulation but are marked near the articular extremity with short sharp and regular undivided ridges eight in a half inch.
The articular faces are slightly concave and without ridges.
There are the two inferior foramina and one on the lower part of each side.
The articular face for the neural arch is an oval pit extending the length of the centrum and interrupted by some transverse ridges near the middle.
The vertebrae diminish in size posteriorly.
Two centra probably sacral resemble the dorsals but present an extensive vertical articular surface on each side.
This has raised edges and terminates above in the longitudinal surface for the neural arch having thus a T s l ia P e It narrows below to an obtuse point and no doubt supported a free diapoplrysis.
The fragments of the pelvic and scapular arches indicate that they were eapacious.
The clavicle inclosed a large foramen was rather narrow and thickened on the inner edge.
Its glenoid surface was wide and subrhomboid.
Some of the other bones were quite thin.
MEASUREMENTS.
M. Length of anterior cervical 0.062 Depth articular face do .050 Width of articular face do. '
.050 Length of posterior cervical .070 Depth articular face do .052 Width   090 Distance between parapophysi .048 Length anterior dorsal .059 Depth articular face do .062 Width   072  neural canal on centrum .
.
.
.
.017 Long diameter proximal end clavicle .
.
.114 Associated with these remains were those of a turtle of the size of some of the large Gheloniidse of recent seas.
The only portions were the scapuloprocoracoid the coracoid and the mandible nearly complete.
The two former were like those of Ghelydra the procoracoid issuing nearly at the articular extremity and the coracoid being of moderate elongation and much expanded distally and with nearly straight axis.
The mandibular rami were remarkably slender and Avith correspondingly short symphysis.
The tomia obtuse and directed outwards the apex flat and obtuse.
Coronoid process slightly elevated  articular bone osseous.
Length coracoid .250 m.  diameter distally .080  distal width of scapula .058 length ramus of mandible .150 length symphysis .030.
The general characters of this form were thought to agree with Cynocercus Cope though the individual was larger than that on which the G. incisus was established.
DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MARINE BIVALVE MOLLUSCA.
BY GEORGE W. TRYON JR. 1.
Crassatella Adeline Tryon.
Plate 6 fig.
1.
Shell ovate triangular anteriorly rounded posteriorly produced  umbones depressed slightly undulated.
Surface white with brown rays occasionally marked with cuneiform characters of darker color under a thin dark brown epidermis within chocolate color margins white without crenulations.
Length 3 alt.
2.25 diam.
1.13 inches.
Habitat unknown.
Museum of the Academy.
This species is nearly allied to G. Antillarum Reeve but is not so gibbous and is more narrowly produced behind it is also readily distinguished by its peculiar colored markings.
2.
Lucina Codakia Distinguenda Tryon.
Plate 6 fig.
3.
Shell orbicular depressed disklike covered with flattened radiating ridges which are crossed by numerous closeset raised concentric striae.
White with a faint tinge of pink  interior with a broad marginal band of deep pink.
Long.
3 alt.
2.G5 diam.
1 inches.
Habitat. Gulf of California.
W. M. Gabb.
Museum of the Academy.
This fine large species has been confounded by Mr. P. P. Carpenter and others with an analogous West Indian species Lucina tigrina Linn.
It is readily distinguished however by its flattened form and border and more depressed ribs.
3.
Circe Crista bidivavicata Tryon.
Plate 6 fig.
2.
Shell oblongoval thick somewhat ventricose sides declining convexly and ventral margin slightly rounded covered b T radiating rounded ribs which are finally bifurcate and nodose  ribs posteriorly bidivaricate forming a series of M's.
Rust colored with brown splotches white within.
Long.
1.65 alt.
1 diam.
.65 inch.
Habitat.
Red Sea.
Museum of the Academy.
This species resembles Crista divaricata Chemn. its characteristic difference being the doubly divaricate disposition of its ribs.
NOTICE OF SOME CRUSTACEA FROM THE ISLAND OF ST. MARTIN W. I. COLLECTED BY DR. VAN RIJGERSMA.
BY T. HALE STREETS U.S.N.
BRACHYURA.
MAIOIDEA.
Pericera corktjta H. MilneEdwards.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust. Vol.
I. p. 335  PI.
XIV.
bis.
Fig.
5.
OCYPODOIDEA.
Gelasimus affinis Nov. sp.
Male.
This species is very closely allied to G. mordax Smith.
The carapax is convex longitudinally and slightly so transverse.
The dorsal surface of the carapax is very similar to that of G. mordax.
Like that species it is punctate and the space between the puncta is perfectly smooth.
The regions are but faintly marked out on the dorsum  a prominent sulcus separates the gastric and cardiac regions.
The front is broad and deflexed.
Its dorsal surface is grooved in the medial line  the tip is curved backward and downward so as to be completely hidden when looked at from above  it is bifid.
The front is marginate above at the point where it is curved backward.
The upper edge of the superior orbital border is straight but directed a little backward.
The ascent of the outer portion of the curved lower edge is much more gradual and is longer than the inner portion of the same edge which is curved rapidly downward.
The raised margin of the lower edge is finely denticulated.
The anterolateral angle is somewhat projecting and the anterior portion of the lateral border is thin and straight.
The margin is raised and in some cases finely denticulated.
The posterior portion of it is curved inward and terminates opposite the cardiac region.
From the point where the posterolateral border turns inward a line runs downward and backward in a curved manner to join the posterior border.
In the space left by the divergence of these two lines there is one and in some cases two short plications.
In the larger cheliped the merus is triangular in form the anterior surface is smooth the borders are granular or tuberculose and the superior surface is arcuate and crossed by short pecteniform lines as is also the external surface.
The superior and external surface of the carpus is obscurely tuberculose and the inner surface is crossed by an oblique smooth ridge.
The basal portion of the propodus is shorter than the digital.
The superior and external surface is covered thickly with small depressed tubercles.
On the superior surface these tubercles are distinct and are separated by distinct intervals but they become gradually smaller more numerous and are thickly crowded together towards the inferior border.
A raised tuberculose margin extends from the base of the propodal finger along the whole length of the inferior border to the carpus.
The inferior part of the inner surface is minutely granulose and is crossed by an oblique tuberculose ridge which extends to the evacuation for the reception of the carpus.
The space between this ridge and the base of the dactylus is covered with tubercles.
The superior edge is carinated  from its posterior part a tuberculate line curves downward around the upper part of the depression into which the carpus folds.
The fingers are long and slender smooth and punctate.
The row of tubercles along the inner margin of the prehensile edge of the propodal finger curves upward behind the base of the dactylus.
The prehensile edge is armed with tubercles  there is a large one near the middle and another at the tip.
The dactylus is tuberculose at its base  its prehensile edge is also armed with tubercles  those in the median line are the largest.
The tips arc hooked.
In the ambulatory feet the merus is broad and compressed and the upper part of the superior surface is marked by pectin iform lines the fourth and fifth segments are hairy.
The abdomen is similar to that of G. pugnax.
The second and third segments are broadest.
The terminal segment is narrower than the penultimate and is arcuate in form.
The female is distinguished from the male by being minutely granulose on the dorsal surface of the carapax and the carapax is nearly plane transversely.
Dimensions of the male.
Length of the carapax .5G.65 in.
 breadth .37 .44 in.
Length of the hand .741 inch.
Length of the carapax of the female .50.53 in.
 breadth .31 87 in.
This species can be distinguished from G.jmgnax by having the anterior surface of the merus smooth and a smooth oblique ridge on the inner surface of the carpus.
It differs from G. mordax in not having the superior surface and the upper part of the external surface obscurely tuberculose nor is the inferior portion smooth.
The carapax in the female is nearly plane and the lateral margins of the branchial region are not tuberculose.
LEUCOSOIDEA.
Calappa galloides Stimpson.
Arm.
Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
New York.
Vol.
VII.
p. 71.
ANOMOURA.
Dkojiia lator H. MilneEdwards.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust. Vol.
II.
p. 174.
Petrolistiies nodostjs Nov. sp.
The carapax is broadly ovate about as broad as long.
It is nearly plane from side to side and convex from behind forward.
The anterior portion is nodulated the nodules are arranged in a semicircular manner transversely across the dorsum from one hepatic region to the other.
There are two nodules larger than the others placed in the centre behind and between the orbits.
The posterior portion of the carapax is indistinctly imbricated.
The front is prominent and deeply tridentated.
The middle tooth is the largest and triangular in shape and very slightly more prominent than the lateral ones.
The lateral teeth are broad their outer margin is convex and the inner is concave their apices are directed inward.
A shallow groove is in the middle of the front  and there is also a groove on each side running down into the lateral teeth.
The superior margin of the orbit is inflated and everted.
The external angle is acute but not prominent.
The eyes are large.
The peduncles of the antennae are knobby the first article presents an obtuse tooth on its anterior margin.
The right cheliped was missing.
The left is large compressed imbricated on the superior surface and smooth on the inferior.
The hand is as long as the carapax  the width is greater at its junction with the dactylus than where it joins the carpus.
The posterior margin is covered with a dense pubescence.
The dactylus and propodus closely approximate and their approximated borders are finely denticulated.
Their extremities are hooked.
The dactylus presents a slight groove on its superior surface.
The carpus is shorter than the hand.
The anterior margin is armed with four large serrated and imbricated teeth the two middle ones are the largest and are united at their bases  the external tooth is smallest.
The superior edge of the distal extremity of the carpus is dilated.
There is a small tooth at the external angle  and between the two angles are two rounded prominences.
The superior surface presents a wellmarked ridge with a sulcus on each side of it.
The ambulatory feet are hairy  the third article is broad compressed and imbricated.
The color of the carapax and cheliped is reddish.
The length of the carapax is .025 of an inch.
Petrolisthes jugosus Nov. sp.
The carapax is rotundoovate in outline about as broad as long depressed and smooth or very lightly granular under the microscope.
The front is deflexed and trilobate.
The lobes are rounded  the middle one is more prominent than the lateral ones.
There is a wellmarked median furrow extending to the tip of the middle lobe  and a furrow on each side which terminates at the anterior border of the lateral lobes.
The anterior border of the front presents a welldefined raised margin.
The superior border of the orbits is not inflated.
The external angle is obtuse and not prominent.
The eyes are large  the first article of the antennary peduncle has a projection on its anterior border.
The chelipeds are large compressed and granular  the left is larger than the right.
The hand is as long as the carapax.
Its width is greater at its junction with the dactylus than where it articulates with the carpus.
The posterior border is pubescent.
The posterior part of the superior surface is broadly grooved and this groove is continued on the propodus.
The anterior part of the upper surface presents another slighter groove  and a broad ridge runs longitudinally along the centre of the same surface.
The carpus is shorter than the hand and its anterior margin is armed with five small teeth.
Its upper surface is marked by three longitudinal ridges.
The posterior and external borders are dilated.
The anterior angle of the merus is armed with a tooth.
The ambulatory feet are pubescent and minutely granulated under the microscope.
The third article is compressed  the fourth and fifth articles are ridged on their upper surfaces in their long direction.
The color is a reddish shade the chelipeds are more deeply colored than the carapax.
The length of the carapax is .019 of an inch.
MACROURA.
Palemon Jamaicensis Olivier.
H. MilneEdwards.
Hist.
Nat.
des Crust. Vol.
II.
p. 398.
NOTES ON LINGUAL DENTITION OF CERTAIN SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN LAND SHELLSBY THOMAS BLAND AND W. G. BINNEY.
We are indebted to Miss Annie E. Law of Jalapa Tennessee and to Mr. Henry Hemphill of Oakland California for the specimens from which we extracted the jaws and lingual membranes here described.
ZONITES LJ3VIGATUS Pf.
Jaw as usual in the genus.
Zonites intertextus Binney.
The jaw and lingual membrane are as usual in the genus.
Zonites demissus Binney.
Jaw arched ends attenuated pointed anterior surface smooth cutting edge with well developed sharp median projection.
Lingual membrane as usual in the genus.
Laterals above eight in number on either side of central line.
Zonites lasmodon Phillips.
Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus.
Zonites inteknus Say.
The jaw and lingual membrane are those of Zonites or Hyalina and not of Helix tlius showing the generic position of the species which is not so well marked by the shell.
The jaw is slightly arcuate ends attenuated pointed  median beaklike prominence to the cutting edge.
The lingual membrane is long and narrow.
Central teeth large with a long median cusp.
Laterals like the centrals but bifid four in number marginals aculeate.
Patula strigosa Gould.
Jaw long low slightly arcuate  anterior surface smooth excepting near the lower margin where there are numerous crowded subobsolete ribs or coarse strise crenellating the cutting edge.
There is a very strong muscular attachment to the upper margin.
The lingual membrane is as usual in the genus.
See fig.
129 of L. and Fr.
W. Shells I.
The marginal teeth are wide and low with one inner long obtuse oblique denticle and several short side blunt denticles obtusely rounded.
Patula cooperi W. G. Binn.
Lingual membrane as in Patula strigosa.
Patula idaiioensis Newc.
The jaw very much resembles in form and in its crenellated cutting edge that of Patula atriatella.
See fig.
141 of L. and Fr.
W. Shells part I.
Its anterior surface has coarse perpendicular stria
or obsolete wrinkles not well formed ribs.
There is a stout membranous attachment to the upper margin.
Lingual membrane as in Patula Hemjihilli.
See Am.
Journ.
of Conch. YI.
247.
Patula perspectiva Say.
The jaw and lingual membrane are quite like those of P. striatella.
The ends of the jaw however are more squarely truncated and the stria
are not converging.
Helix polygyrella Bland.
Jaw slightly arcuate ends but little attenuated blunt anterior surface with fifteen broad ribs denticulating either margin.
Lingual membrane as in H. auriculata.
We are indebted to Mr. Harford for the living specimens from which the notes on this species are drawn.
Helix palliata Say.
Jaw short high  anterior surface with more than fifteen ribs denticulating either margin.
Helix ohstricta Say.
Jaw with ten ribs.
Lingual membrane as in H. palliata.
Helix devia Gld.
var.
This small doubtful form from Salmon River Idaho has the jaw arcuate ends blunt with about seven stout ribs denticulating cither margin.
The lingual membrane is broad teeth as usual in the genus the marginals low wide with one oblique bluntly bifid inner denticle and several short blunt outer denticles.
Helix fidelis Gray.
In Amer.
Journ.
Conch. VI.
p. 207 pi.
ix.
fig.
1 we described and figured thejaw as short high thick rough strongly arcuate ends attenuated blunt cutting edge with a well developed blunt median projection marked with decided longitudinal stria which crenellate its margin.
We have lately had an opportunity of examining numerous other adult specimens and find them decidedly costate usually with about six ribs denticulating either margin.
Pallifera dorsalis Binney.
An opportunity has lately been given us by Mr. H. Prime of examining living specimens from Westchester Co. New York.
We find Mr. Morse's description and figure of the jaw to be quite correct and have no doubt of the genus being distinct from Tebennophorus.
The species appears to us well marked also especially by the great activity of the animal's motions.
Mr. Prime noticed it climbing on trees a habit often observed by us in several of our land shells.
Thus Helix thyroides in the garden of one of us at Burlington N. J. constantly climbs the fruit trees to eat the gum which exudes from the branches.
Our figure 535 of L. and Fr.
W. Shells part I. is defective.
The head does not extend beyond the mantle.
See the upper figure in Terrestrial Mollusks III. pi.
lxiii.
10 June 4.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentytwo members present.
The following papers were presented for publication   Descriptions of Twentynine species of Unionidse from the United States.
By Isaac Lea.
A Contribution to the Ichthyology of Alaska.
By Edw.
D. Cope.
Note on Gamasus of the Ox.
Prof. Leidy read an extract from a letter from Dr. C. S. Turnbull in which it was stated that the writer had been misunderstood in relation to the Acarus of the Ox described in the Proceedings for January 2d.
He had seen the cattle killed and was positive that the mites occupied the position in the ear of the steers while these were alive.
Such being the case the acarus may be viewed as a parasite of the Ox and may be specifically named Gamasus auris.
Mr. Thomas Meehan presented some specimens of the common asparagus and remarked that in consequence of observing last year so many plants that had evidently flowered producing no seeds he had this year examined them in a flowering condition and found them perfectly dioecious.
Imperfect stamens existed in the female flowers but they were never polleniferous.
An occasional gynoecium in the male flower would make a weak attempt to produce a pistil but no polleniferous flower ever produces a fruit.
There was a great difference in the form of the male and female flowers.
The former were double the length of the latter and nearly cylindrical while the female flower was rather campanulate.
Other observers had nearly made the discovery of division in this plant.
The old  English Botany of Smith gave it the character of being occasionally imperfect and the authors of  Deutchland Flora considered it as occasionally Polygamous.
But Mr. M. w y as satisfied from a half day's investigation among many plants that in this region at least the asparagus is never perfect but truly dioecious.
He had observed another matter small but which might be of importance to systematic botanists as well as to those engaged in evolutionary studies.
One flower had a quad ri fid stigma and a fourcelled ovary.
The trinatc type or its multiple is so closely associated with the endogenous structure that he considered this circumstance particularly worthy of note.
The male flowers seem very attractive to insects various kinds of which seem to feed on the pollen.
The honey bee was a frequent visitor.
None seemed to he attracted to the female flowers.
In the division into separate sexes the plant had gained nothing in the waj of aid by insect fertilization.
Fertilization seemed whollaccomplished by the wind.
The male flowers are produced in much greater abundance than the female ones.
Mr. M. added that this discovery had a more than usual practical importance.
Many attempts had been made to improve the asparagus as garden vegetables and the farm cereals had been improved  but it had often been questioned whether these improved forms would reproduce themselves from seed as other garden varieties did.
The tendency of thought the few past j'ears had been in the direction of the belief that permanent varieties could be raised and several improved kinds had been sent out by seedsmen and were popular to a considerable extent.
He said he had himself inclined to this opinion but this discoveiy of complete dicecism in asparagus whereby two distinct individual forms were required to produce seed rendered a true reproduction of one original parent impossible as the progeny must necessarily partake of both forms.
Mr. Meehan further said he had been requested by one of the members Professor Frazer to call the attention of the Academy to an orange on the table which had produced a second smaller fruit Under the rind of the larger one.
The orange externally presented nothing unusual but on being peeled the second one was found of about onefifth the size of the principal one of a turbinate shape and fitting into the lower larger one as into a cup.
This upper secondary orange had the regular colored skin with its endopleura and the whole inclosed by the regular skin of the primary fruit.
He explained that a fruit was formed by the sudden arrestation of growth in a branch and what would be under ordinary circumstances an elongated branch with its several nodes and axillary leaves and buds is to form a fruit compressed and condensed so to speak into the organized mass we call a fruit.
In the orange before us the central axis after having had its elongating direction arrested made another feeble departure onward and the small orange was the result.
These sudden accelerations of a nearly arrested growth are though not common sometimes seen in fruits.
They have been most frequently seen in the pear.
Here the renewed growth of the central axis bursts through the primary cuticle as seen by the manner in which it is drawn up with the secondary growth.
He believed he had seen an instance of a pear making three series of growths in one fruit.
In the larch it was quite common to find a branch arrested in its development to form a cone push out again into vigorous growth at the apex after resting as it were for nearly a month while the cone was forming.
These larch cones with branches growing as it were completely through them are very often seen.
Aurantiaceous plants seem addicted to these irregularities.
It was not unusual to find several young seedling plants spring from one orange seed.
June 11.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twenty five members present.
Prof.
Cope offered some remarks on the discoveries recently made by Prof. Marsh as to the structure and characters of the Pythonomorpha based especially on material recently obtained by him in Kansas.
As the writer had recently passed in review much similar material he was much interested in Prof. Marsh's conclusions.
These he said were of importance.
In the first place he had ascertained that what was formerly supposed to be the inner side of the quadrate bone was the outer side a conclusion Prof.
Cope thought entirely consistent with the other known relations of the parts.
Secondly.
He had discovered the stapes and had entirely confirmed the opinion of the speaker which Prof. Marsh had apparently overlooked.
This was stated as follows  l the quadrate is characterized by the presence of an oval pit.
.
.
.
Its use is uncertain but there is some probability that it received the extremity of an osseous or cartilaginous styloid stapes.
A groove on the under side of the suspensorium would accommodate such a rod and in a position nearly similar to that which it occupies in many of the Ophidia.
It is in precisely this position that Prof. Marsh is so fortunate as to have discovered it.
Thirdly.
Prof. Marsh believes that he has found the columella.
I have supposed it to be wanting from the absence of its usual points of attachment on the parietal and pterygoid bones.
It remains to compare the bone found by Prof. Marsh with aliand orbitosphenoid and ethmoid ossifications found in rnan saurian s. Fourthly.
Prof. Marsh has observed the parietoquadrate arch described by the speaker and makes the interesting observation that it is formed of three elements the median connecting the parietal with the opisthotic.
This piece he says is  apparently the squamosal  as the latter bone completes the zygomatic arch it cannot 'occup r a position in the parietosquamosal unless it sends a branch in that direction.
Fifthly.
He discovers the malar arch proving it to be incomplete and supported by the postfrontal bone.
Prof. Marsh also observes an ossification in the glenoid cavity of the opisthotic which he regards as the pterotic of  Huxle which should be 1 Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 18G9 p. 180.
Parker an identification which cannot probably be maintained.
The connections of the pterotic where present are very different.
The bone in question is present in Edestosauriis tortor Cope.
Sixthly.
Prof. Marsh completes almost entirely our knowledge of the anterior limbs.
The previous descriptions of these members in Clidastes propython Cope Holcodus ictericus Cope and other species had left the number of phalanges and their relative positions as well as those of the carpals uncertain  these points are now happily supplied by Prof. Marsh's important researches.
Seventhly.
He has done much for the pelvic arch and hind limbs.
He was the first to announce the existence of both and actually described the pelvis of Edestosaurus dispar the speaker however first described the hind limb in Liodon c
'assatus and L. dyspelor Cope.
Prof. Marsh is in error when he says the  absence of these extremities in the Pythonomorpha was considered satisfactorily established.
I had never stated that they were certainly absent and the last time I wrote observed that this order  possessed an anterior pair only or with the posterior pair so reduced as to have been insignificant.
1 They appear according to Marsh to have been relatively small in some of the genera.
In Liodon dyspelor Cope the anterior are the smaller.
Prof. Marsh lays students under especial obligation for his determinations of the pelvic elements and the excellent figures of all the parts connected with the support of the hind limb.
His figure of the fore limb is also highly important as it will be difficult soon to duplicate his beautifully complete specimen.
In subsequent pages there are six additional species described bringing up the number from the Kansas Cretaceous to twentythree.
Two new genera are proposed viz. Lestosaurus for those previously referred by myself to Holcodus Gibbes and Rhinosaurus for species allied or belonging to Liodon.
As to the former it is no doubt a wellmarked genus and I am willing to believe Prof. Marsh's opinion that it will not include Gibbes' Holcodus acutidens will turn out to be well founded  but there is on the other hand insufficient evidence to show that it is not Platecarpus Cope.
If Liodon curtirostris be referred to it it will very probably prove to be Platecmpus as that species presents palatine teeth much as in P. tympaniticus and the pleurodont character is not wanting in some of the other species.
Rliinosaurus includes such species as Liodon proriger Cope.
As the name has been used two or three times before it may be altered to Rhamphosaurus but I have always had doubts that the conic projecting snout would distinguish the species generically from the true Liodon with which it agrees in dentition.
The type of Liodon L. anceps ord. is however very little known.
 ' Hayden Geol.
Survey of Wyoming etc. 1870 p. 385.
Remarks on Mastodon from New Mexico.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to portions of a lower jaw of Mastodon recently received for examination from the Smithsonian Institution.
The specimens were from New Mexico and were presented to the latter by the Hon.
W. F. M. Arny.
One of the specimens contains a molar resembling that from California described before the Academy and supposed to belong to Mastodon obscurus which was originally named from a tooth said to have been derived from the miocene formation of Maiyland.
The other fragment is part of the symphysial prolongation of the jaw containing portions of tusks.
This resembles in its form and proportions the corresponding part of the European Mastodon angustidens.
These and other specimens including the portion of an upper tusk having a band of enamel from California described before the Academy under the name of Mastodon Sheppardi lead to the inference that a species resembling Mastodon angustidens inhabited North America during the middle tertiary period.
The late Dr. Falconer states that he saw at Genoa the cast of a lower jaw of a Maodon from Mexico with an enormous beak containing a large lower incisor.
The animal to which it belonged was named Mhynchotherium.
This perhaps maybe the same as the species named Mastodon obscunts.
A full description of the New Mexican and Californian fossils with plates will shortly be given.
June 18.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentythree members present.
The death of Dr. Wm.
Stimpson was announced.
June 25.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
The death of John Farnum Maj. Sydney S. Lyon John GL Moore and T. Clarkson Taylor was announced.
On favorable report of Committees the following papers were ordered to be printed  ON NEW CALIFORNIAN PULMONATA ETC.
BY J. G. COOPER M.D.
ALEXIA SETIFER.
Cp.
n. s. PI.
3 fig.
A.
1 to 6.
Sp.
en.
Alexia A. myosotis persimilis seel testa juniore retis brevissimis decidnis munita liuea spirali ante sutura sitis.
Var.
tenuis elongata pallida.
Lat.
0.08 ad 0.14 alt.
0.30 ad 0.40 partes cent pollici.
Shell very similar to A. myosotis of the northern Atlantic States but the young provided with short deciduous bristles arranged in a spiral line just in front of the suture.
Form varying from ovate to lanceolate translucent smooth pale to dark corneous with a purple tinge often marked with numerous longitudinal paler stripes apex short or rather lengthened and subacute  suture usually distinct whorls six or seven the nuclear three or four very narrow and nearly alike with the apex inverted or planorvoid  the last ellipticovate and forming nearly threefourths of the total length  aperture nearly twothirds of total length  peristome thickened and projecting horizontally especially in front appressed to columella leaving a slight umbilical fissure open then blending with a strong plait which winds obliquety inward  parietal wall with a white transverse flat denticle near its middle and usually a small tubercle above it making the mouth threetoothed on the inner side.
Young shell showing the bristles on about three whorls the first two or three being without them and losing them by wearing off after attaining half its growth.
The variety tenuis is slender elongated shell usually thinner and paler sometimes amber3 T ellow.
Many of the more robust form are however fully as thin and pale.
Animal yellowishwhite translucent  eyes black  tentacles transparent faintly wrinkled muzzle strongly wrinkled transversely.
This species seems chiefly characterized by the bristles of the young shell but these may exist in some other species being easily overlooked or rubbed off in cleaning the shell which is often covered with adhesive mud.
The usual form of the adult differs much from the figure given by Binney of u A. myosotis more resembling other European species.
The variety tenuis however is very similar to that of .
Binney and Tryon.
The figures show the varieties of form and color met with here but scarcely two specimens are exactly alike and some adult shells are as ventricose as the young one figured.
I found this species exceedingly numerous on the stony shore of a tidewater creek within the limits of San Francisco but onlv for a distance of about ten rods where a rocky point comes to the shore though a few can be found for half a mile on loose stones and timbers crawling under the stones in great numbers when the tide is out long.
They look so similar to the buds of the Salicornia which grows about the spot that they may easily be overlooked by enemies when crawling among it.
They creep rather rapidly by a steady gliding motion like the other pulmonates and live for a week or more in a damp vial though killed quickly by immersion in fresh watei.
Though so numerous that several hundred may be scraped oil' from the bottom of a small stone it is strange that this shell has escaped the notice of a host of collectors for more than twenty years though many of them must have passed within a few yards of the spot as it is close to the old southern entrance to the city by land.
This suggests that it may have been introduced from China on the bottoms of fishingboats or as ova in damp nets or otherwise especially as the Chinese have always made the creek a fishing station and cultivate the low land along its shores.
It is however just as likely to be native and to have been overlooked on account of the limited and rather inaccessible locality it inhabits.
Until it is proved that these delicate aquatic mollusca can be transported from one country to another by the ways of commerce it is better to consider them indigenous.
I may be able to find them in other similar localities out of the way of foreign vessels.
It is almost as probable that the Assiminea which is equally numerous in the same spot was introduced in the same way though that is probably the same as found in other similar creeks about the bay.
1 1 Note on A myosotis' n of IT.
S. Atlantic Coast.
The variations of the Pacific shell suggest that the form figured by Binney is only the northern attenuated form of what may occur farther south more fully developed as  Leuconia n Sayii Kuster sp.
 which according to Jay's catalogue is found in New Jersey.
Conrad's and De Kay's descriptions of borealis I will probably be able to make explorations sufficient to determine most of these doubtful points relating to this and many other species before the publication of the Conchology of California by the Geological Survey.
LIMAX AMALIA HEWSTONI.
Cp.
n. s. PI.
3 Pig.
B.
1 to 5.
Sp.
ch.
Limax Z. Soicerbii n similis dorso postice valde carinato et altiore  clypeo granulatim rugoso et snlco subelliptico super spiraculo submediano  colore ex brunneo nigrescens vel supra nigcrrima lateribus pallidioribus disco motivo infra albescens.
Long circa duo polliceo alt.
corporis bis major quam lat.
disci motivi.
Testa oblongoovalis  poll.
Similar to L. Sowerbii of England the back being strongly carinate even when fully extended and higher than the front of body  shield granulaterugose and with a groove subelliptic in outline above the level of the spiracle which is just behind the middle  color blackishbrown or deep black above the sides paler the locomotive disk beneath whitish.
Length about two inches or less height of body twice the width of foot.
Shell oblongoval  inch long.
Its other characters agree with those common to most of the subgenera Amalia and Eulimax.
The figures best show the comparative points.
I have named this species in compliment to Dr. George Hewston of this cit who has made many interesting observations on the habits of the species in his garden.
It is I believe the first Amalia found in the United States native or naturalized.
In the remarkable groove on the shield it differs from any I find described but as this is not apparently connected with any organic difference it seems merely a specific indicate varieties like ours but not described by Binney while Say's  turritus is like the young.
Binney' s figure of the animal of  Tralia from Charleston is so much like ours that it seems probable that it may also be a more southern development of the Alexia while his  T. pusilla from Florida looks very like some forms of our A. setifer the revolving lines and labial denticles being perhaps more perfect characteristics not found far north.
Melampus bidentatus presents similar variations with a like geographical range.
Eastern conchologists may decide whether it is not more likely that the southern shell extends north under a less perfect form than that the northern shell has come from Europe and also which of the names quoted is prior if it is distinguished from the latter.
character.
It does not even coincide with the outline of the attached portion or with the shell and though general is in some so faint as to be scarcely visible.
The L. fuliginosus Gld. seems very similar and might pass for the same though described as from  New Zealand but has ferruginous tentacles.
It is barely possible that this species was introduced from China or elsewhere as I have not met with it beyond the vicinity of San Francisco but it is so exceedingly numerous in every garden here that it seems indigenous.
It is found in drier places than our others and is active all summer in moist shady places.
I find none like it described from Asia or Europe.
LIMAX EULIMAX CAMPESTKIS Binney.
Var.
Occidentals.
PI.
3 fig.
C. 1 to 5.
This the only indigenous eastern species has not been before announced from west of the Rocky Mountains and I therefore give a figure of the California form which appears rather more robust than the eastern.
It presents the same range of colors from amberbrown to black being paler when it first emerges from its retreat in the dry season.
I have found it numerous at San Francisco and Santa Cruz at Clear Lake Alta 3625 ft. elev.
on west slope of the Sierra Nevada and Truckee 5866 ft. high on the east slope besides observing probably the same at points near lats.
31 and 39 in the valleys.
It has not been noticed in Oregon.
ARIOLIMAX CALIFOENICUS.
Cp.
n. s. 
PI.
3 fig.
D. 1 2 3.
Sp.
en.
A. forma colore etc.
A. Columbiano 1  1 similis sect sulcis dorsalibus multo frequentioribus  srcpe bis nuniero et transverse reticulatis.
Resembling A. Columbianus in form and color but with the dorsal grooves much more numerous 26 to 36 often twice as many and the connecting reticulations transverse.
The figures given of portions of this form taken from life show the remarkable dissimilarity in the reticulations of the dorsal region and did I not find considerable variation among them I would consider it certainly a different species.
The black form next mentioned agrees with the Oregon animal in this character as shown in E. Young and adult of the yellow form from one to six inches long all show the same peculiarity and it may be only an adaptation to a drier climate.
It is quite well shown even in alcoholic specimens and I am surprised that it has not before been mentioned.
Some parts of Mr. W. G. Binney's description may however be taken from this variety.
The following notes have not before been published and are all taken from the southern form.
Mr. Toy has brought it from the Sierra Nevada lat.
39 alt.
about 3500 feet but I have not heard of it elsewhere out of the coast range.
The locomotive disk anal and generative orifices are like those of Limax.
Fig.
D 3 shows the latter as preserved in alcohol in a specimen taken in copulo.
I may be able to describe them more fulh' from fresh ones.
The mantle is minutely granulated which may have led Mr. Tryon to place it in Amalia.
The dorsalgrooves are unicolor with the rest of body but those of the upper margin of foot are colored brown sometimes very pale the color permanent in alcohol and the stripes wider at every fourth or fifth like the grooves.
The longitudinal division of the foot beneath is very faintly perceptible.
The young just hatched is paleellowish with pellucid whitish spots and when an inch and a half long is colored like adult while the shell is perceptible through the thin shield.
This can also be seen by looking into the grisacle of the adult when fully expanded.
Eggs are laid from April 1st to June and vary in size from 0.44 X 0.36 to 0.35 x 0.26 inch probably laid by slugs of various ages.
They have a shelly but tough envelope and after they are laid the shell is often entirely wanting in the animal having apparently been absorbed to form the eggshells 
This may explain the absence or fragmentary state of the shell in some species referred to Avion.
ARIOLIMAX NIGER.
Cp.
n. s. PL 3 fig.
E. 1 2 3 4.
Sp.
ch.
A. forma testa et maxilla .4.
ColumMano per similio sed minor robustior colore nigro tentaculis et disco motivo infra pallidioribus maxilla costulis circa xx dorso non carinato.
Long.
ii.
et dim.
poll.
65 millimetres.
In form shell and jaw it resembles A. Columbianus but is smaller back rounder more robust black with tentacles and locomotive disk beneath paler its jaw with only about 20 riblets.
Length 2 inches.
Dr. Gould mentions a small specimen uniformly slate color probabty from alcohol which indicates that this is also found in Oregon.
A very young one from east of S. F. Bay has the shield and back brownish with small irregular black spots and no carination perceptible as it is in the yellow species which shows it stronger in the young than the adult.
The dorsal grooves agreeing with those of the Oregon form suggested that it was only a southern dwarfed variety of that which is often mottled with blackish  but Dr. Gould's specimen was also small and may indeed have been collected in California.
Here I find none intermediate between this and the yellow variet.
The color and dorsal grooves agreeing with Limax Hewstoni also suggested hybridity but I have never found this in the same localities with that species.
We thus have three very distinct species often equally black but the onl r common cause I can guess for this similarity is possibty more nocturnal habits than in the others.
The comparative rarity of this form may be a consequence of more thorough concealment in the daj'time.
I found them copulating in December and the young was found in February probably recently hatched.
ARION
ANDERSONII.
Cp.
n. s. PI.
3 fig.
F. 1 2 3 4 5.
Sp.
en.
A  Arioni foliato similis sed niulto minor spiraculo prope medio clypei forte granulato rugosi testa interna valida  cauda acuta.
Foramen generativuni ut in Ariolimax et Limax Ilewstoni situm.
Long.
ii.
et dim.
poll.
 lat.
dioci motivi plus quam dimidium alt.
corporis.
Similar to  Arionfoliolatus but much smaller the spiracle close to middle of shield which is strongly granulaerugose  a strong internal shell  tail acute.
Length two and a half inches  breadth of locomotive disk more than half the height of body.
Form slender gradually tapering from the shield backwards to an acute point shield large covering onethird of back distinctly granular the spiracle not perceptibly anterior to middle except when the animal is fully extended  upper tentacles little over onefifth of the length of mantle which is free in front nearly as far back as the spiracle and a narrow edge free behind  dorsal furrows about 18 distinctly darker colored foot slightly projecting at sides the lateral bands distinctly separated beneath and marked by muscular fibres running obliquely backward and outward on the under surface.
Color.
Reddishgray the body somewhat clouded with black the shield paler clouded or more usually with a dark baud ou each side above the spiracle converging in an elliptic form  a pale dorsal streak.
Head uniform palebrown tentacles darker.
Foot and often the mantle tinged with olive.
Shell large and thick the nucleus near posterior left corner obtusely rhomboidal concave beneath.
Length about 0.14 breadth 0.06 inch.
1 Jaw arcuate wider near middle with 20 to 30 riblets denticulating the lower margin.
Hab.
Near south and east sides of San Francisco Bay northward to Santa Cruz.
It is confined to well wooded hills or damp riverbanks being less able to bear heat tind dryness than our other sluos.
I have named it for Dr. C. L. Anderson of the latter place a zealous naturalist who has much aided me by collecting this and other species of mollusca.
This species combines the form and spiracle of Avion with the shell and jaw of Aviolimax making the generic distinctness of the two forms doubtful and consequently connecting Avion still more closely with Limax.
The minute caudal mucous gland and acute tail of this species also approach the character of Limax and make the modern separation of these genera into separate families still more unnatural.
The rule adopted by Agassiz of founding family divisions on modifications of the general forms and geneva only on those of special organs will apply well in the case of these animals.
But a difficulty arises here in the disagreement of this species in several points from the latest definition of the genus Ayion in those characters above indicated as connecting it with Aviolimax.
Still as Avion is the older genus it would seem more proper to extend its generic limits to include a more developed shell and jaw than usual than to make Aviolimax include a species as different from the type in form position of spiracle and structure of locomotive disk.
The form of the caudal termination seems like that of Avion hovtensis.
Orifice of generative organs about halfway between tentacle and shield as in Limax etc.
In colors this species is so similar to  A. foliolaius Gld. that 1 The shell represented in the figures is from a larger specimen than the animal figure.
it might be considered identical if not for the important differences indicated in the diagnosis.
Mr. Binney places that species without hesitation in subgenus Lochea which has the shell represented by calcareous granules only but remarks that he had not examined the jaw or granules and as the types are probably still preserved in the Smithsonian Institution this important omission may yet be attended to.
Dr. Gould saj's in Binney's Terr.
Moll.
ii.
p. 31  That this animal belongs to the genus Avion there can be little doubt from the peculiar structure of the tail as represented in Mr. Drayton's figure and from the anterior position of the respiratory orifice.
He did not examine any specimens with reference to the shell but figures the dorsal areolae as peculiarly granulated and indented an appearance apparently caused as in our species when in alcohol by minute reticular subdivisions.
The figure represents the tail as acute though Dr. Gould describes it as  somewhat truncated at tips exhibiting a conspicuous pit which was probably occupied by a mucous gland.
As he was no't aware of the existence of this gland in his  Limax Columbianics he may have examined specimens of the latter when partly or wholly destitute of the shell as described by me and confounded them with Drajton's figure as alcoholic specimens do not retain all the specific characters.
The great similarity of the figure published as of the Avion to that of L. Columbianus makes it probable that some such confusion has occurred the only essential difference being the position of the spiracle.
Mr.
Try on places this species in Aviolimax but on what grounds is not stated.
This would be justified by the discovery of the shell and generative orifice in alcoholic specimens but is rendered doubtful by other considerations above pointed out.
Mr. Drayton's original figure probably represented A. Andevsonii though Dr. Gould's description does not agree wholly with it.
LISINOE DIABLOENSIS.
Cp.
n. s. PI.
3 fig.
G. 1 2 3 4.
Helix indet. near Traskii Cp. Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sc.
III.
2G0 18CG  332 18G7 as perhaps a hybrid.
II.
Diabloensis Cp. Aruer.
Journ.
Conch.
IV.
221 1868.
Ariontu
Diabloensis Cp. ibid.
V. 205 207 1870.
Sp.
ch.
Testa depressoturbinata infra paullo concava anfr.
vi et dim.
ad vii.
umbilico amplo peristomate albo expanso satis incrassato superne decline  colore ex luteo brunnea intus purpurascens zona fuscobrunnea supra peripheriam luteo infra marginata aufr.
tribus visa regio inferior pallidior  epidermide nitente tenuissime malleata rugosa lincse incrementi sulcis tenuibus sape oblique insculptis  ruga
obscurse circum umbilicum volventes.
Testa junior non subangulata.
Diam.
maj. 0.75 ad 0.95  niin.
0.65 ad 0.80  alt.
0.40 ad 0.55  axis spirse 0.30 ad 0.45 cent.
poll.
Animal pallide griseopurpurascens corpore semicylindrico bis lat.
testae requans longitudine tota superficies tuberculis parvis ellipticis induta tentacular oculifene tertiam partum long corporis sequantes  pes postice brevis cuneatus alt.
corporis latior margine crenatoincisa.
Per testa visiente partes molles nigrse perspicuse sunt.
Hah.
Montibus  Diablo California
prope San Francisco altitudine circum 2500 ped.
supra mare inter sylvis quercinis et cupressinis et prope  San Luis Obispo.
Shell depressedturbinate below a little concave whorls 6to 7 umbilicus large peristome white expanded somewhat thickened above descending  color jellowishbrown paler beneath with a darkbrown zone above the peripheiy margined below by yellowish visible on three whorls epidermis shining finely rugosemalleate lines of growth often obliquely cut by delicate grooves obscure revolving ridges around umbilical region.
Young shell not subangled.
Animal pale purplishgray semicylindrical its length twice the breadth of shell its whole surface covered with small elliptic tubercles  eyebearing tentacles onethird the length of body  foot short behind wedgeshaped broader than height of body its margin crenately incised.
Intestines seen through upper whorls.
Hah. 
Cedar Mountain 25 miles southeast of Mount Diablo California among oaks and cypresses thence south to San Luis Obispo 200 miles.
The first specimen obtained by Prof.
Brewer  east of Mount Diablo was too imperfect for me to decide on its characteristics and the sculpture somewhat resembling that of the Arionta group led me to refer it doubtfully to that while the form and color suggested hybridity between A. ramentosa and the nearest of the Lysinoe groups either L. mormonum or Traskii neither of which were known however to exist within 90 miles of ramentosa.
Fresh specimens lately discovered by the industrious Dr. Yates among the cypresses of Cedar Mountain though much smaller indicate its near alliance with L. TrasHi differing as much however as several others of the allied species.
Specimens said to come from San Luis Obispo appear to be the same and are the ones referred to by me in the Cal.
Acad.
Proc.
III.
332 as combining characters of ramentosa and Dupeiithouarsi.
I am however becoming more and more of the opinion that natural hybrids are so very scarce that shells presenting intermediate characters are to be considered rather varieties in which local proximity and exposure to the same influences produce changes simulating those of neighboring geographical groups as before remarked concerning some of our most northern and southern forms.
Thus we have in this the nearest approach to the sculpture of the Ariontas to be found in our Lysinoes as it exists on a belt next adjoining the centre of development of the sculptured group.
L. Dupelitliouari often shows a little of the same sculpture.
This form probably occupies the whole of the gap of 160 miles south of Mount Diablo mentioned previously by me as destitute of any known species but at an elevation seldom visited by collectors though the young specimens also found by Dr. Yates  at the crossing of the Salinas River above Soledad indicate that it like others may follow down the river banks into the vallejs.
These have a smaller umbilicus and flatter apex.
About two hundred miles southward the Mount Diablo range combines with the coast range near San Luis Obispo the Salinas Valley lying between them.
Genus ASSIMINEA Leach.
Although not a pulmonate mollusc the species to be described forms a link between these and the branchiate shells in its power of existing for several days and even of crawling actively about in a slightly damp bottle showing nearly as much vitality out of water as the Alexia with which it lives while it cannot exist in fresh water.
It is probable that like Amjndlaria etc. it possesses a reservoir for moistening its gills or a sort of imperfect lung.
Its subterminal tentacular eyes are also similar to those of the Pujnllse with only one pair of tentacles.
It will be lucky if some hairsplitting microscopist ambitious of affixing his name to the species of others does not find a slight difference in the lingual asperities on which to found a new genus although the genus is now admitted to extend from England to India.
ASSIMINEA CALIFORNIA n. s. 
PI.
3 Fig.
H. 1 2 3. 
Hydrobia Califomica Tryon Amor.
Jouru.
of Conch.
I.
221 pi.
22 f. 11.
Sp.
en.
A. testa parva imperforata nitente sutura bene impressa anfr.
vi.
convexis cito crescentibus ult.
tumido  peristomate acuto non continno callo tenui parietali  colore corueo ex nigrobrunnescente operculo pertenui transluceiite aufr.
ii.
et dim.
Long.
0.14 lat.
0.07 long spirse 0.025 aperturse 0.06 div.
50.
Animal albescens tentaculis et caput antice nigro tincto regio inter tentaculis rufus.
Longitudo bis major quam long testse.
Habitat.
In ripas aquarum salinarum extrinsii San Francisco California inter lapidas Salicornia etc.
Shell very small imperforate shining whorls 6 rapidly increasing rather convex suture well impressed bodywhorl swollen peristome not continuous acute with a slight parietal callus.
Color dark hornbrown.
Operculum very thin colorless its whorls 2.
Animal whitish tentacles and muzzle tinged with black a rufous patch on top of head.
When extended it is about twice as long as shell the foot ovate.
Inhabits brackish creeks near mouth of San Francisco Ba and found in great numbers within the city limits under small stones with Alexia.
The animal crawls actively by a jerking motion alternately projecting the foot in front of the muzzle and then drawing the shell forward so as to show the two positions represented in the plate.
The shell closely resembles Hydrobia Califomica which is found in similar places at Oakland and Martinez but it being rather scarce there I have not been able to obtain living specimens yet for comparison.
Mr. Tryon's description and the dimensions given agree exactby but Oakland specimens of the shell are thicker the whorls a little shouldered and the umbilical region pitted perhaps from stronger growth.
Mr. Tryon's figure however does not agree with the dimensions.
It differs from AJ subrotundata Carpenter of the Str.
of Fuca in all its dimensions and in size.
See Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist..
1865 p.
28.
Several of our freshwater Hydrobrinse have been confounded with H. Califomica.
I believe this is the first of the genus determined to inhabit the 11 United States as Carpenter's was without the animal and the genus is only mentioned in one Atlantic coast list as probably found on Long Island N. Y. by Sanderson Smith in the Annals N. Y. Lye.
Nat.
Hist.
1810 though it is suspected that some of the New England  Bissoids are congeneric.
1 I have used the specific name Califomica as not likely to lead to any confusion even if Mr. Tryon's species proves to be a true Hydrobid and thus of another family.
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATE.
A. Alexia setifer.
1 2.
The animals crawling with shells of different forms and color.
3.
Most usual form of the shell showing the stripes often observed.
4.
Var.
tenuis an extreme form.
5.
Young without upper tooth a form of the shell occasionally found in the adult.
6.
Young of very thin variety showing revolving line of setse.
B. Limax Heiostoni.
Natural size.
2.
Caudal extremity.
3.
Shell.
4.
Jaw magnified.
5.
Shield from above showing groove and generative organ anterior to it.
C. Limax campestris var.
2 3 4 as in B. D. Ariolimax var.
Calif omicus.
Natural size of parts.
1.
Lateral view of furrows behind shield.
2.
Caudal extremity showing furrows mucous pore and color of foot.
3.
Anterior parts from alcohol showing generative organs.
E. Ariolimax iiiger.
Natural size.
2 3 4 as in B. F. Avion Andersonii.
Natural size.
2 3 4 as in B.
5.
Lower surface of locomotive disk from life.
G. Lysinoe Diabloensis.
2.
Style of sculpture above.
3.
Shell from beneath.
4.
Front view of shell.
5.
Lower surface of locomotive disk showing crenations.
H. Assiminea Califomica magnified.
2 3 as in A. '
Mr. Smith's name  Coecum Cooperi being preoccupied for a different Californian species I may here return the compliment he offers to the memory of my father by naming it Ccecum SiiiTnu Cooper.
DESCRIPTIONS OF TWENTYNINE SPECIES OF UNIONID.E FROM THE UNITED STATES.
BY ISAAC LEA.
Unio Tellicoensis.
Testa Ifevi subtrangulari subinflata inasquilaterali postice obtuse angulari antice rotunda  valvulis crassiusculis antice parum crassioribus  natibus subprominentibus  epidermide crocata polita  parum radiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis crenulatis conicis  lateralibus curtis subcrassis subrectisque  margarita salrnonis colore tincta et valde iridescente.
Eab.
Tellico River Monroe Co. E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law.
Unio Conasaugaensis.
Testa lsevi suboblonga subinflata inrequilaterali postice subbiangulari antice rotundata  valvulis percrassis antice crassioribus  natibus subprominentibus  epidermide rufofusca eradiata  dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis subcompressis crenulatisque  lateralibus curtis crassis obliquis rectisque  margarita alba et aliquanto iridescente.
Eab.
Conasauga Creek Monroe Co. E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law.
Unio lenticularis.
Testa laevi subrotunda compressa lenticulari subaequilaterali postice obtuse biangulari antice rotunda  valvulissubtenuibus antice crassioribus natibus prominulis epidermide vel tenebrosofusca vel luteofusca obsolete radiata dentibus cardinalibus parvis compressis crenulatisque lateralibus sublongis lamellatis corrugatis subcurvatisque  margarita albida et iridescente.
Eab.
Tellico River Monroe Co. E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law.
Unio Andersonensis.
Testa laevi triangulari inflata ad latere planulata valde insequilaterali postice obtuse angulata antice oblique rotundata valvulis percrassis antice crassioribus natibus valde elevatis tumidis recurvatisque  epidermide vel luteola vel fusca obsolete radiata dentibus cardinalibus crassis crenulatis conicis lateralibus crassis curtis subcurvisque  margarita argentea et iridescente.
Eab.
Holston River and Clinch River Anderson Co. E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law.
Unio flavidus.
Testa lsevi triangulari subinflata ad latere planulata insequilaterali postice obtuse angulata antice rotundata  valvulis subcrassis antice crassioribus  natibus proruinentibus recurvatis ad apices minute undulatis  epidermide flavida radiis interruptis dentibus cardinalibus parvis corrugatisque  lateralibus curtis subcrassis subcurvisque  margarita argentea et iridescente.
Hab.
Clinch River Anderson Co. E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law.
Unio pauciplicatus.
Testa plicata subrotunda ventricosa valde inaquilaterali postice carinata antice rotundata  valvulis crassis antice crassioribus  natibus prominentibus tumidis recurvatis ad apices minute undulatis  epidermide rufofusca eradiata  dentibus cardinalibus crassis elevatis sulcatis crenulatisque lateralibus longis lamellatis corrugatis curvisque  margarita argentea et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Austin Texas.
Prof. C. G. Forskey Civil Engineer.
Unio vesicularis.
Testa lrevi elliptica inflata valde inaequilaterali postice et antice rotundata valvulis crassiusculis antice crassioribus natibus prominulis  epidermide tenebroso oliva obsolete radiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis sulcatis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus sublongis lamellatis subrectisque  margarita albida et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Lake Ocheechobee Florida.
Dr. Budd and C. M. Wheatley.
Unio conspicuus.
Testa lsevi elliptica subinflata intequilaterali postice obtuse angulata antice rotundata  valvulis crassis antice crassioribus  natibus prominulis ad apices undulatis  epidermide rufofusca perradiata dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis crenulatis compressoconicis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus prselongis lamellatis parum curvatis  margarita conspicua persalmonia et formosoiridicente.
Hab.
Yadkin River near Salisburg N. C. C. M. Wkeatle.
Unio Yadkinensis.
Testa lsevi oblonga coinpressa valde inaequilaterali postice subbiangulata antice rotundata valvulis crassis natibus prominulis  epidermide tencbrosofusca eradiata  dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis compressis corrugatis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus longis lamellatis corrugatis subcurvisque  margarita vel salinonea vel purpurea et valde iridescentc.
Hab.
Yadkiu River near Salisbury N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
TJnio brevis Testa laavi subtriangulari subcompressa ad latere subplanulata inaequilaterali postice obtuse biangulata aiitice rotundata  valvulis crassiusculis antice crassioribus  natibus prominulis  epidermide flavida eradiata dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis subcorupressis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus lamellatis parviusculis obliquisque  margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore tincta et valde iridesceute.
Hab.
Conasauga Creek Monroe Co. E. Tenn. Miss A. E. Law.
TTnio amplus.
Testa lasvi oblonga fere alata inflata inoequilaterali postice obtuse biangulata antice rotundata  valvulis crassis antice crassioribus  natibus subprominentibus  epidermide rufofusca nitida obsolete radiata transverse vittata  dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis rugosis compressis  lateralibus proelongis lamellatis sublongisque  margarita vel alba vel purpurea vel salmonis colore tincta et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Irwin's Creek Micklenberg Co. N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio ligatus.
Testa lasvi ovatooblonga subcompressa inoequilaterali postice obscure biangulari antice rotundata  valvulis subcrassis  natibus prominulis  epidermide tenebrosofusca polita obsolete radiata transverse vittata  dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis corrugatis et in utroque valvulo duplicibus lateralibus longis lamellatis corrugatis subcurvisque  margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore tincta et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Irwin's Creek Mecklenberg Co.  and Long Creek Gaston Co. N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio attenuatus.
Testa lasvi lata attenuata ad latere subcompressa valde insequilaterali postice subbiangulari antice oblique rotundata valvulis crassiusculis antice parum crassioribus  natibus prominulis fere terminalibus  epidermide tenebrosofusca aliquando nigra radiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis compressis crenulatis obliquis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus prselongis lamellatis subrectisque  margarita alba et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Savannah River Geo. Dr. Barratt  and Beaver Creek Houston Co. Georgia Dr. J. Lewis.
Unio differtus.
Testa loevi elliptica ventricosa subaaquilaterali postice obtuse biangulari fere rotunda antice rotundata  valvulis crassis antice crassioribus  natibus vix prominulis  epidermide subpolita luteola et obsolete radiata  dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis corrugatis compressis et in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus lougis lamellatis subrectisque  margarita vel albida vel salmonis colore tincta et valde h'idescente.
Hab.
Georgia 
Major J. LeConte.
Unio strumosus.
Testa lsevi rotundata inflata inrequilaterali postice obtuse angulata antice rotundata  valvulis crassis  natibus prominulis  epidermide tenebrosofusca vel nigra eradiata dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus rugosis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus longis rugosis et curvatis  margarita alba et iridescente.
Hab.
Yadkin River N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio subparallelus.
Testa lsevi oblonga subcompressa ad latere planulata insequilaterali postice subangulari antice rotundata  valvulis crassiusculis antice parum crassioribus  natibus prominulis ad apices concentricorugosoundulatis  epidermide tenebiosofusca nitida radiata dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis conicis rugosis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus prselongis lamellatis subcurvisque  margarita salmonis colore tincta.
Hab.
Irwin's Creek and Fox River N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio oblongus.
Testa lsevi oblonga compressa ad latere planulata  valde insequilaterali  valvulis parum crassioribus natibus prominulis  epidermide luteola micanti radiata vel eradiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis lobatis corrugatis in utroque valvulo duplicibus lateralibus prrelongis subrectisque margarita alba vel purpurascenti vel salmonis colore tincta et iridescente.
Hab.
Irwin's Creek N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio Irwinensis.
Testa loevi suboblonga parura corapressa ad latere parum planulata valde insequilaterali postice obtuse biangulata antice rotuudata  valvulis subcrassis antice crassioribus  natibus promiuulis ad apices undulatis  epidermide olivacea vel fusca obsolete radiata  dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus parum compressis silicosis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus longis sublamellatus subcurvisque  margarita alba vel purpurea vel salnionis colore tincta et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Irwin's Creek N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio curvatus.
Testa lsevi late oblonga subinflata ad latere planulata valde insequilaterali postice angulata antice rotundata valvulis parura crassis antice crassioribus  natibus prominulis  epidermide tenebrosofusca aliquanto polita eradiata dentibus cardinalibus parvis sulcatis compressis in' utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus longis lamellatis subrectisque  margarita pallidosalmonia vel purpurascente et valde irridescente.
Hab.
Pfeiffer's Pond Mecklenberg Co. N.
C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio insolidus.
Testa lsevi oblonga parum compressa ad latere parum planulata insequilaterali postice biangulata antice rotundata  valvulis subtenuibus antice parum crassioribus  natibus subprominentibus ad apices undulatis  epidermide pallidoviridi obsolete radiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis compressis  lateralibus longis lamellatis rectisque  margarita alba et iridescente.
Hab.
Abbeville Dist. N. C. Dr. Barratt  and Irwin's Creek N. C. C. M. Wheatley.
Unio cuspidatus.
Testa lsevi lata subinflata ad latere parum curvata valde insequilaterali postice cuspidata subbiangulari antice rotundata  valvulis crassiusculis  natibus prominulis fere terminalibus epidermide tenebrosoolivacea eradiata transverse vittata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis subcompressis corrugatis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus longis lamellatis subcurvisque  margarita alba et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Buckhead Creek Burke Co. Geo.
Bishop Elliott.
Unio exacutus.
Testa lsevi prselata subcompressa ad latere planulata valde insequilaterali postice exacuta subbiangulari antice oblique rotundata  valvulis crassiusculis  natibus prominulis fere terminalibus ad apices minute undulatis epidermide tenebrosofusca perradiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis sulcatisque  lateralibus longis rectis laniellatisque  margarita vel alba vel purpurea et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Savannah River at Governor Hamilton's Geo.
Dr. Barratt.
Unio subsquamosus.
Testa laevi oblongoelliptica compressa ad latere planulata valde insequilaterali postice obtuse biangulari antice oblique rotundata  valvulis crassiusculis  natibus parvis prominulis ad apices rugosoundulatis  epidermide tenebrosofusca subsquamosa eradiata dentibus cardinalibus parvis sulcatis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus prrelongis lamellatis subrectisque margarita alba et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Yadkin River N. C. C. M. Wbeatley.
Unio rostellum.
Testa laevi lata compressa ad latere planulata valde inaequilaterali postice obtuse biangulari antice rotunda  valvulis tenuibus  natibus parvis  epidermide tenebrosofusca obsolete radiata dentibus cardinalibus compressis crenulatis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus prselongis lamellatis rectisque  margarita vel albida vel purpurea et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Macon Georgia.
I. C. Plant.
Unio infuscus.
Testa laevi elliptica subinflata inasquilatcrali postice obtuse biangulari antice rotundata valvulis crassis antice crassioribus natibus prominulis ad apices parum undulatis  epidermide tenebrosofusca submicanti obsolete radiata  dentibus cardinalibus subcrassis compressis corrugatisque  lateralibus longis lamellatis rugosis subcurvisque  margarita vel salmonia vel purpurascente et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Fox River and Irwin's Creek N. C. C. M. Wbeatley.
Unio ratus.
Testa laevi quadrata subcompressa ad latere subplanulata valde imvquilaterali postice obtuse angulata antice rotunda  valvulis subcrassis antice crassioribus natibus prominulis  epidermide tenebrosoolivacea eradiata  dentibus cardinalibus parvis snbconicis silicosis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus sublongis lamellatis subcurvisque  margarita purpurescente et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Neuse River N. C. Prof. E. Emmons.
TJnio dissimilis.
Testa laavi sublata compressa ad latere planulata valde insequilaterali postice obtuse angulari antice rotunda  valvulis subtenuibus  natibus prominulis  epidermide tenebrosofusca micanti eradiata  dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis subcompressis silicosis in utroque valvulo duplicibus  lateralibus prcelongis lamellatis subrectisque  margarita alba et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Long Creek Gaston Co. and Pfeiffer's Pond Mecklenberg Co. N.
C. C. M. Wheatley.
TJnio bellulus.
Testa laevi oblique tumida ad latere parum planulata valde insequilaterali postice obtuse angulari antice oblique rotundata  valvulis percrassis antice crassioribus natibus pyramidatis fere terminalibus  epidermide luteola valde radiata dentibus cardinalibus subcrassis rugosis  lateralibus curtis crassis nigosisque margarita argentea et valde iridescente.
Hab.
Holston River.
Dr. Edgar.
Tenn. River.
Rev.
G. White.
Mussel Shoals Tenn. River Alabama.
C. M. Wheatley.
TJnio basalis.
Testa lsevi oblonga subinflata ad latere subplanulata inffiquilaterali postice obtuse biangulari antice rotundata ad basim recta  valvulis crassiusculis  natibus prominulis  epidermide luteola radiata dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis subcompressis sulcatis  lateralibus sublongis lamellatis subcurvisque  rnargarita vel albida vel purpurascente et iridescente.
Hab.
Carter's Creek near Columbus Georgia.
G. Hallenbeck.
July 2.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Sixteen members present.
On a new Genus of Extinct Turtles Prof. Leidy stated that in a more careful study of the fossil turtles of Wyoming he had determined that the one he had named Bsena undata belonged to a different genus.
Besides other well marked distinctive characters like the genus Platemys it possessed an additional pair of plates to the usual number found in the sternum of the emydoids.
These plates are intercalated between the hyoand hyposternals.
In Platemys Bullockii they are quadrate.
In the new genus they are triangular and the sutures defining them cross the plastron like a prostrated letter X from which character it was proposed to name the genus Chisternon.
On some remains of Cretaceous Fishes.
Prof. Leidy called attention to some teeth of fishes from the cretaceous formation which he described as follows  Otodus divaricatus.
The species is indicated by an entire tooth of peculiar character submitted to my examination bDr. William Spillman of Columbus Mississippi.
It was sent to him from Texas but its exact locality is unknown.
It was probably derived from a cretaceous formation.
Of known species it resembles most the Otodus semiplicatus Minister of the chalk of Europe and has likewise considerable likeness to a tooth from the chalk of France represented in fig.
ii.
pi.
76 of Gervais' Paleontologie Francaise.
The crown forms an elongated demicone with the apex slightly bent forward.
The enamel at the base is plicated in front and behind.
The lateral denticles are conical and divergent outward and anteriorly.
The root is thick strong and notched and rises posteriorly above the middle of the length of the tooth.
Length of crown in front 13 lines  base of same external to denticles of the same width.
Breadth of root 15 lines  thickness 6 lines.
OXYRHINA EXTENTA.
A species founded on a number of teeth obtained from the cretaceous formation of Kansas by Dr. George M. Sternberg TJ.
S. A. and from near Columbus Mississippi by Dr. William Spillman.
The teeth resemble most those of Oxyrhina Mantelli of the English chalk and differ mainly in the proportionately greater lateral extension of the base of the crown.
Measurements of two Mississippi specimens are as follows  Length of crown internally 11 lines.
8 lines.
Breadth   16  13  Length of tooth at middle 14  10  Breadth of root . 
18  14  Measurement of two Kansas specimens are as follows  Length of crown internally 8 lines.
6 lines.
Breadth   15  12 u Length of tooth at middle 12  8  Breadth of root  17  13  ACRODUS HTJMILIS.
Founded on a tooth adherent to a portion of limestone from the New Jersey cretaceous formation.
It resembles most nearly the Acrodus rugosus Ag. of the chalk of Maestricht and the A. polydictyos Reuss of the Bohemian chalk.
The tooth is 8 lines wide 2 lines fore and aft.
The anterior and posterior borders are not quite straight  and the extremities are angular.
The upper surface is moderately convex.
A nearly obsolete ridge crosses the tooth transversely and from this ridge minute folds are directed forward and backward to end in a reticulation.
This is I believe the first time the genus Acrodus has been noticed in the American cretaceous formation.
Prof. Emmons represents the tooth of a species in his report of the North Carolina Geological Survey p. 244 fig.
97 which he attributes to the miocene.
If really an Acrodus tooth it would be the latest species 3 r et discovered.
It might be named Acrodus Emmonsi in honor of its discoverer.
Pycnodus faba.
This species is named from a specimen from the cretaceous formation of Mississippi discovered by Dr. William Spillman.
The fossil consists of a jaw fragment with four large teeth obliquely parallel with each other.
They are elongated elliptical and smooth  and they measure threefourths of an inch wide and onefourth of an inch in the short diameter.
On both sides the larger teeth there are two rows of small teeth.
Mr. Norris spoke at some length on his effort now in progress to stock the Delaware with the true salmon Salmo sala.
Having procured 12000 ova from Mr. Wilmot New Castle Canada he placed then on gravel in wooden troughs of running spring water near the town of Easton Pa.
These egos was taken in November 1871 by manipulation of the parent fish and fecundated in the usual wa r  and placed in water almost down to the freezing point.
The young fish were however plainly visible in the egg when received on the first of April and struggling to break the shell.
On being placed in water at 52 the ova immediately commenced hatching and in a week the fry were all out.
In seven weeks the yolk sac was absorbed and the r commenced feeding off small particles of curdled milk fed to them daily for a week longer.
They were then transported in large tin vessels to the Buskill which runs through the outskirts of Easton where a third of them were liberated at the mouth of a cold spring branch and the remaining twothirds placed in a small natural pond fed by a copious spring in a meadow above and discharging by a narrow outlet into the creek.
Either here or at the mouth of the spring branch mentioned the fry will get such natural food as their instinct will lead them to seek and thrive far better than if kept in artificial ponds and fed on prepared food.
The law of the salmon as with the shad and other anadromous fishes is that it will inevitably seek its native stream in its return from sea impelled by the instinct of reproduction and although the Delaware is south of the limit of the geographical range of the salmon it is on the law of nature that reliance is placed for its return to this river.
It has been ascertained beyond doubt that onehalf of a brood of salmon go to sea when a little over a 'ear old and the remaining half the following summer.
The males of salmon as with shad are fecund a year earlier than the females and it is not improbable therefore that those that migrate when a year old are males and those that go to sea the next year are females.
Mr. Norris thought the Delaware on account of its being unobstructed by impassable dams and having a bold .current was a favorable river for trying to acclimatize salmon south of their present habitat.
He is sanguine of success and even if the solution of this problem should not be favorable he considers it important that the question should be definitely settled.
Mr. Norris also made some remarks on the effect of food on the external appearance of trout S. fontinalis as well as on the quality of their flesh that when fed in crowded artificial ponds on prepared food the vermilion spots disappear and the flesh deteriorates but that the spots are restored as well as the flavor of the fish when placed in large ponds where they can find natural food.
He also spoke of the malformation of young trout and salmon on being hatched the body being curved around the yolksac causing their death in a few weeks.
July 9.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Thirteen members present.
On Artemiafrom Salt Lake Utah.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to a bottle containing numerous specimens of a minute crustacean from Salt Lake Utah caught on the 22d of June by Mr. C. Carrington a member of Prof. Hayden's exploring party now in the field.
They were received from Prof. Hayden with the remark  that Salt Lake has been supposed like the Dead Sea to be devoid of life but its saltest water contains the most of these little creatures.
The crustacean is the Artemia salina which has long been known in Europe and has been previously found in other localities of this country.
The animal has always been viewed with especial interest in its order from the fact that it lives and thrives best in a concentrated solution of salt which would destroy most marine animals.
It has not I believe been noticed in the ocean but is found in salt lakes and salt vats in which by evaporation the brine has become more concentrated than sea water.
Artemia is furnished with eleven pairs of limbs which serve both for progression and respiration.
The limbs are four jointed and the joints have leaflike expansions fringed with long featherlike bristles.
The narrow abdomen or taillike prolongation of the body is sixjointed and traversed by the intestine.
The last joint ends in a pair of processes furnished each with a bunch of bristles like those of the limbs.
The head exhibits a median quadrate black eyespot and in addition is provided with a pair of pedunculate globular compound eyes.
A short narrow pair of inarticulate antennas project in advance of the eyes.
The head of the male is furnished with a pair of singular organs for seizing the female.
These claspers are large doublejointed hooks.
In the female they are replaced by a pair of comparatively small hornlike processes.
The first abdominal segment bears the ovarian sac in the female  and two cylindroid appendages in the male.
The female of the Salt Lake Artemia ranges from 4 to 7 lines in length  the male from 3 to 4 lines in length.
The color is translucentwhite and ochreousyellow with three black eyespots and a longitudinal line varying in hue with the contents of the intestine.
The ovarian sac appears orangecolored from the eggs within.
The antennas end in three or four minute setas and are considerably longer in the male than the female.
The first joint of the claspers is provided on its inner side just below the middle with a spheroidal knob.
The last joint forms a rectangular hook the angle having an elbowlike prominence.
When the clasper is thrown forward the outer border of the hook is convex  the anterior border straight slightly or deeply concave and the inner or posterior border is sigmoid.
The antennas are longer than in the female and longer than the first joint of the claspers and in the female are longer than their homologues.
The ovarian sac is inverted flaskshaped and has a pair of lateral conical or lnanimillary finely tuberculated processes.
The caudal setas are longer than in the male and are eight to each process.
This description is taken from alcoholic specimens.
They exhibit considerable variation in size and to some extent in detail.
Prof. Verrill has described what he views as two species of Artemia distinct from the wellknown A. salina.
One he names A. gracilis from near New Haven Conn.  the other A. Monico from Lake Mono Cal.
That from Salt Lake differs from either of them as much as they do from A. salvia and with the same propriety ma be regarded as a distinct species.
I am disposed to view them all as varieties merelj r of A. salina.
Measurements of two specimens of the Salt Lake Artemia are as follows  Total length Length of body ....
Breadth of body with limbs Breadth of head at eyes .
Breadth of thorax where widest Length of first joint of abdomen Breadth   .
.
Length of sixth   Breadth    .
Length of caudle setae Length of antennae ....
Length of claspers of male Breadth   Breadth of ovarian sac Diameter of eggs ....
Remarks on Fossil Shark Teeth Prof. Leidy stated that from time to time he had observed specimens of teeth from various cretaceous formations which were identical in character with those of Lamna elegans and L. cuspidata of tertiary deposits except that they were devoid of the lateral denticles.
He had now in his possession wellpreserved specimens of such teeth unabraded but exhibiting no trace of the existence of lateral denticles.
There were teeth of the L. elegans variety found with the skeleton of Hadrosaurus Foulkii in New Jersej T  and others from the cretaceous of Mississippi and Kansas.
There were also teeth of the L. cuspidata.
variety from the cretaceous of Kansas and one in a block of chalk from Sussex England.
The absence of the lateral denticles in all the cretaceous specimens he thought could hardly be accidental and suspected that these teeth represented the oxyrhina ancestors of the tertiary Lamna elegans and L. cuspidata who lived during the cretaceous era.
Females.
Males.
7 lines.
4 lines.
4 l 2 i 3 i 1
u U mm.
l mm.
4 5 C k 4 It 2 5 a 3 5  2 5 u 4 5 l 1 2 u 1 Z t i u 2 3 11 2 5  1 3 l 4 1 n H u n t 11 u 1 natural sciences of philadelphia.
167 July 16.
Mr. Vaux VicePresident in the chair.
Eight members present.
The following paper was presented for publication  Descriptions of a new recent species of Glycimeris from Beaufort N. C and of Miocene Shells of North Carolina.
By T. A. Conrad.
July 30.
Mr. B.
A. Hoopes in the chair.
Six members present.
On leave being granted Mr. Tryon read the following communication received by him from Dr. Jos.
Leidy.
ON SOME NEW SPECIES OP FOSSIL MAMMALIA FROM WYOMING.
Fort Bridger Uinta Co. Wyoming July 24th 1872.
I arrived at this place on the 15th inst.
The country is the most remarkable that I have ever seen.
It is an immense basin the bed of an ancient lake bounded on the south by the Uinta Mountains and extending far north to the Wind River Mountains.
The deposits of the lake of the tertiary period are estimated to be about 8000 feet in thickness.
The present the appearance of a succession of terraces or tablelands extending southerly from Green River to the base of the Uintas.
The country for the most part is treeless and except along the watercourses nearly a desert.
The tertiary deposits consist of strata so little inclined that they appear to be horizontal to the eye.
The strata are composed mainly of clays soft and crumbling or more or less indurated often mixed with sand.
Friable sandstones and indurated marls often with abundance of freshwater shells also frequently occur.
The lands are often isolated Iry broad plains or narrower valleys.
These isolated lands are named buttes and resemble great earthworks or huge railway embankments.
Frequently their eroded sides give them the appearance of a vast assemblage of Egyptian pyramids flanking the plains above.
Such assemblages of earthworks pyramids mounds piles of truncated cones c rising from a plain constitute what are named in various parts of our great West bad lands or mauvaises terres.
As the buttes crumble away under the effect of the weather the fossils of their strata become exposed to view.
On the 17tb in company with Dr. J.
Van A. Carter and Dr. Joseph K. Corson U.S.A. I made a trip to the valley of Dry Creek forty miles from Fort Bridger.
Here we encamped and spent three days in exploring the neighboring bnttes for fossils.
In ascending the buttes bounding the valley I was astonished at the appearance of the country extending from the horizon in the north to the snow3peaked Uintas on the south.
An utter desert a vast succession of treeless plains and bnttes with scarcely any vegetation and no signs of animal life.
Eve lathing parched abundance of river courses without water the stones at my feet baked in the soil.
An overwhelming silence reigned undisturbed even by the hum of an insect.
Truly I said this is the wreck of another world which was once luxuriant with vegetation and teemed with animals.
We were successful in finding many interesting fossils.
The most abundant vertebrate remains are those of turtles the shells of which are frequently met with in little heaps of fragments into which they have been reduced after exposure from the wearing of the buttes.
Of mammalian remains the most abundant are those of the tapirlike animal I named Paleeosyops jjaludosus.
We also found a number of more characteristic specimens than I had before seen of the larger species of Paleeosyops majo Dr. Corson further discovered the remains of a small species which may be named Paleeosyops humilis.
An upper molar tooth of this animal measures threefourths of an inch in diameter.
We have likewise found some additional remains of Hyrachyus agrarius and better specimens than I before had of the larger Hyrachyus eximius.
A wellpreserved last lower molar of this species measures an inch fore and aft.
We were fortunate in obtaining the remains of two of the largest and most extraordinary mammals  T et discovered in the Bridger tertiary deposits.
One of these was a tapiroid animal exceeding in bulk of body and limb the living Rhinoceroses though the head appears to have been proportionally small.
Dr. Carter discovered many fragments of a skeleton of the animal including a whole humerus portions of jaws and a much crushed and distorted cranium.
The upper molar teeth have the crown composed of a pair of transverse lobes with sloping sides and acute summits separated externally and united internally in a Vlike manner.
A thick basal ridge bounds the crown in front and behind.
A last upper molar measures an inch and a half in the median line fore and aft.
The molars in advance are smaller.
The lower molars have a trilobed crown.
The anterior lobe larger than the others extends across the crown and rises in a prominent peak internally.
The acute summit is worn away posteriorly.
The middle lobe extends about twothirds across the crown from the outer side and is less prominent than the others.
The back lobe second in size is thickest internally.
The fore and aft diameter of the last lower molar is equal to the corresponding upper tooth.
The depth of the lower jaw at the last molar is three and a quarter inches.
The humerus is nearly a foot and threefourths in length and seven and a half inches in breadth at the condjdes.
I propose to name the great pachyderm of the Uinta country the UlNTATHERIUM ROBUSTUM.
If not the most interesting the most exciting incident of our exploration of Diy Creek buttes was Dr. Corson's discovery of the upper canine teeth apparently of the most formidable of Carnivores the enemy of the Uintatherium Paleeosyops and other peaceful pachyderms.
The teeth resemble in their form those of the Sabretoothed Tiger.
The more perfect specimen consists of nearly nine inches of the enameled crown.
In its perfect condition the tooth measured upwards of a foot in length so that it exceeded the canines of the great Brazilian Machairodus.
The tooth is sabrelike curved and compressed conical.
Its most remarkable character consists in the lanceheadlike form of the terminal three inches.
It is thickened at the axis and impressed and expanded towards the edges so as to be actually broader in one portion than immediately above.
The anteroposterior diameter of the crown near its base is two inches  the thickness over an inch.
These canine teeth terminating in lancelike points must have proved most terrific instruments of slaughter.
Their possessor was no doubt the scourge of Uinta and may therefore be appropriately named Uintamastix atrox.
On favorable report of the committee the following paper was ordered to be printed  12
