CATALOGUE OF AMERICAN Testudinata
Chelonuea serpentina
Emysaurus aliorum.
Ch.
Temminckii Holbrook vol.
i. p. 134.
Tkionyx ferox Auct.
T. Bartrami Geof.
Ann.
Mas.
vol.
xiv.
p. IS.
T. georgictis ejusd.
1. c p. 7.
T. spiuiferus spinifer Lesueur Mem.
Mus.
vol.
XV.
p. 253.
A�ipe�iodectes ferox Wagl.
p. 134.
Gymiiopus sinniferus spinifer Dumeril Erpetol.
xi.
p. 477.
T. MUTicus Lesueur.
1. c. p. 263.
Kinosternum PENNSYLVANicuM.
Terrapciie penns.
Merrem Syst.
p. 27.
Emyx id.
Schw.
vol.
i. p. 437.
Cistuda id.
J.
A. N. S. vol.
iv.
p. 204.
K. sonoriense Lec.
K. OBORATUM.
Terrapene odorata et Boscii Menem 1. c. p. 27.
Cistttdo odorata Say 1. c. Emys odorata Schw.
1. c. p. 437.
Test glulinata Daudin vol.
xi.
p. 194.
Steniotherus odoratus Bell Zool.
Journ.
vol.
xi.
p. 307.
Staurotypzis odoratus Dumeril I. c. p. 358.
K. 6UTTATUM LcC.
Cistudo Clausa
Cistudo Carolina alior.
Test virgidata Lat.
Hist.
Rep. vol.
i. p. 100.
Emys clausa Schw.
vol.
i. p. 315.
Emys virgidata ejusd.
ib.
p. 316.
E. Schiieideri ejusd.
ib.
p. 317.
Terrapene Carolina viaculata et nelulosa Bell Zool.
Journ.
vol.
xi.
p. 309.
Var.

Onychotria mexicana Gray Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
vol.
17 p. 16.
LuTREMYS MELEAGRis' Turton's Lin.
Syst.
Nat.
vol.
i. p. 645 Nodder and Shaw Nat.
Miscel.
vol.
iv.
p. 144.
Cistudo Blaiidiugii Holbr.
vol.
i. p. 39.
Emys Muhlenbergii Schcepff.
p. 132.
Chersine Muhlenhergii Merrem.
E. bigitttata Say I. c. p. 212.
E. serrata Daudin 1. c. p. 145.
E. scripta Gray Rep. p. 29 who quotes Schcepff where is figured a young animal which it is impossible to refer to any species.
E. rugosa Shaw Zool.
vol.
iii.
p. 28.
E. mhriventris Lec.
Ann.
Lye.
vol.
iii.
p. 101.
E. irrigata Dum.
1. c. p. 276.
E. serrata Say I. c. p. 204.
Varies very much but the essential character is in the dentation of the jaws.
E. reticulata Latr.
vol.
i. p. 124.
.
floridana Lec.
Ann.
Lye.
I. e. p. 100.
E. mobiliensis Holbrook I. c. p. 71.
E. coNCiNNA Lec.
1. c. p. 106.
E. oregonensis Holbr.
1. c. p. 107.
E. hieroglyphica Holbr.
1. g. p. 111.
E. omata Gray Rept.
p. 50.
E. anmdifera ejusd.
ib.
p. 52.
E. CUMBERLANDENSIS Holbr.
1.
C. p. 115.
E. Troostii Holbr.
1. c. p. 123.
E. iNscuLPTA Lee.
Ann.
Lye.
vol.
iii.
p. .
E. scalra Say 1. c. p. 210.
E. speciosa Gray 1. c. p. 26.
E. GEOGRAPHiCA Lesucur.
E. pseudogeographica ejusd.
Holb.
vol i. p. E. P4LUSTRIS Linn.
E. terrapene aWor.
E. centrata et concentrica quorund.
E. picTA.
T. cinerea Schcepf.
tab.
iii.
f. 2 and 3 is a young one.
E. GUTTATA.
E. punctata Schoepf.
Tes TUDO CAROLINA.
T. polyphemus aliorum.
In the Catalogue of Amphibia in the collection of the British Museum and in that of the Jardin des Plantes the following species of tortoises are mentioned as coming from the United States.
In the English Catalogue are described Emys rivulata E. scripta E. Holbrookii E. macrocephala and E. Bennetii.
Not having these and knowing that the descriptions must have been taken from dried and faded specimens or from such as were bleached by long immersion in 190 October alcohol 1 do not hesitate to pronounce them as having no real existence as distinct species or at most as bcin slight variations from others well known and Ions ago dotermmiMl.
Till' Kinosternum DouMedayii however forms an cxceptiitn.
It appears to be certainly a new and hitherto iindescribed animal altiidnjih what iMr.
Gray says of it is scarcely sulficient to distinuish it.
M. Duiini il's K. Idbyrinthica seems to be nothin more than E. hier.ilyphica of Ilolhrook slightly varying in the dispoiition of the iriarks and lines on the shill  his Kiiiii.iti'rnum cruentatum is probably not I'rom this country it is a well marked and listinct species.
The following spcies retained in most of our books ought to be struck out.
In Scha'pff Testudo tricarinata a young animal of some Kinosternum T. cinerea a young picta  T. scripia a young serrata or reticulata  T. rosliata a young Trionyx.
Anil from Linn.TUs Syst.
Nat. 'J' membranacea which is likewise a young Trionyx T. scabra  the description has been made from an immature specimen which if full grown might have been smooth  T. carinata  T. sulcata and finally T. scpiamosa which is not a Chelonian.
Ohservatiu7i.i on the Vespertilio lejwrhiu.s of Linnceus.
By John Le Conte.
Our associate Dr. Woodhouse some time ago gave me for examination a species of Bat found by him in the province of Honluras which is undoubtedly the Noctilio dorsatus of GeofFroy de St. Hilaire the Vespertilio leponnus of Linnanis i. p. 47 although the description of  the illustrious Swede is rather short and imperfect.
Schreber vol.
i. p. 1G3 tab.
GO describes and figures it as a Noctilio retaining the Linnean specific name.
Wagner in his supplement to the work of this last author vol.
1 p. 151 calls it N. dorsatus and consideis it the same as the albiventris of Spix.
Sim.
et Ves.
Brazil tab.
xxxv.
fig.
2 and 3 and the N. affinis of D'Orbigny Voy.
vol.
iv.
p. 42 p. 12.
The N. unicolor of Wagner is probably the same.
Indeed the authorobserves that it only differs in color from the other species which he describes  which is a matter of very little consequence in any of the Vespertilionida.
Every species of this family is so variable in this respect as to forbid its being taken as a criterion of difference.
There will therefore be but one species of this genus and for the name of this we must revert to Linnceus and resume the old name of cyww although this appellation was founded in error the upper lip not being cleft but in recent specimens covering the incisors.
In dried animals it shrinks and becomes drawn up in such a manner as to leave the upper fore teeth exposed and to represent a very bad case of hare lip.
The animal from which the following description was taken was in its most perfect state of development  at that period of its life when it would be called neither young nor old.
It certainly had but two upper incisors nor was there any appearance of there ever having been any others  in their shape they resemble canines and like them are furnished with an interior lobed calcaneum.
The lower incisors are deeply emarginate and may in some instances be taken for four distinct teeth.
The upper fore teeth of Cheiropters offer a very interesting subject for investigation whether what are socalled are in reality incisors or not more properly canines.
It is now generally allowed that no teeth ought to be called incisors unless they spring from the intermaxillary bone now whether in those animals where there is no nasal bone and the front of the upper jaw is excavated and this excavation reaching to the end of the os frontis they can be said to have any OS intermaxillare I have not been able to determine.
In the frugivorous bats which have regular incisors in the upper jaw the cranium entirely wants this frontal excavation and is furnished with nasal bones in as much perfection as any other mammal.
The determination of this point must be left to others it is suflicient that I have hinted at the circumstance.
It appears to me that some species of Taphizous may belong to this genus  not however having specimens to compare I cannot pronounce positively.
The generic essence of our animal 1854.
191 exclusive of the teeth is the peculiar form of the alar membrane which on the sides extends only to the middle of the tibia and in the tail being shorter than the interfemoral membrane and in having its extremity free by passing through it near the middle.
There are very good representations of this animal in Schreber and in D'Orbigny.
The figure in Seba vol.
i. pi.
Iv.
fig.
1 referred to by authors has nothing to do with it.
In order to remove any difficulty which may hereafter occur in the determination of this species I add a detailed description observing that very little reliance ought to be placed on the color.
Noctilio leporiiin.i.
Linn.
Syst.
Nat.
i. p. 47 Noctilio dorsatus Geoffrey de St. Hilaire and Wagner N. albiventris Spix N. affinis D'Orbigny IN.
unicolor Wagner.
Fur short and soft fulvous a little paler beneath back with a very conspicuous narrow stripe of a paler and yellowish color from the base of the head to the root of the tail.
The hair of the back occupies a triangular siace the base of which lies between the shoulders and the apex reaches to the tail leaving the sides naked.
Beneath the whole body is covered with hair.
Face black nose broad flat emarginate sulcate on the top nostrils somewhat tubular and projecting upper lip tumid confluent with the nostrils hanging down and its dependant sides so placed as to form a wide excavation below the part which covers the incisors  it is not however cleft nor resembling a hare lip unless it be shrunk and contracted upwards by the drying of the parts lower lip very tumid three lobed the lateral lobes recurved and erenate on their edge.
Chin with a small semicircular appendage and four folds diverging from it.
Cheeks with four small warts each furnished with two bristles.
Ears rather long oval blunt pointed outer edge with four or five transverse plicae the lower part with an upright rounded lobe  tragus small with a small branch on the inner side and four blunt teeth on the onter.
Membrane thin black naked not reaching as in most other bats to the carpus of the hind feet but ending about the middle of the tibia on the under side it is whitish ibr a considerable space near the body around the tail and along the hind legs at the thumb on the under side of the membrane on each side of the innermost figure is a small pouch or cavity formed by a narrowappendage or supplementary portion of the membrane which proceeds from the joint and runs down the wing for a short distance.
Interfemoral membrane including the tail broad rounded at the end with a small tooth on each side about one quarter of the distance from the middle.
Tail not half as long as the interfemoral and projecting from the middle of the membrane for about one fifth of its length.
Hind legs stout feet very long toes with parallel claws very long and very much hooked calcaneum bordering the membrane for the greater part of its length.
Length of head and body 4 inches head 1.2 extent 22.7 length of interfemoral 2 inches tail 1.0 naked portion 2.0 foot 1.1 nail 35.
On IJrnatella gracilis a7id a new species of Plumatella.
By Joseph Leidy M. D. In the Proceedings for November 1851 page 321 I published the description of what I then suspected to be the ccencecium of a new genus and species of fresh water bryozoid polyps to which I gave the name of Jlmatella gracilis.
Since then I have examined this body and find my suspicion was correct  and TJrnatella proves to be the most beautiful of the fresh water polyzoa which has yet been discovered.
I have made drawings of the species and propose hereafter to give a full description of it and at present will simply give its diagnosis.
IJrnatella Leidy.
Cknacium consisting of a series of segments up to eighteen in number and forming free semierect curved stems attached only by the base of the lowest segment.
Segments excepting the three last ones simple urniform  the antepenultimate and the penultimate oblong with simple or compound branches of 192 October the same form the last segment or active polyp is campaniilate and is supplied with cylindrical ciliated arms arranged in a circle around the mouth.
Uknatella uracilis Leidy.
Steins single or in groups up to six in number attached at the lower extremity by means ol a sienna colored granular substance.
Urniform sementB .225 m.m.
long by .18 m.m.
broad becoming smaller towards the free end of the stems  body portion of each urniform segment translucent whitish with sienna colored transverse strire and punctcc and having on each side near the bottom a rounded process the remains of former branches  the narrow top and bottom portion of the segments brown in color and annulated.
The antepenultimate and penultimate segments and their branches oblong translucent.
Polyp .225 to .45 m.m.
long campanulate  expanded mouth circular the diameter equal to the length of the body surrounded by fourteen cylmdncal ciliated retractile arms.
Stems up to 4 m.m.
in length.
Habitatinu.
 On the underside of stones in the river Schuylkill below low water in Philadelphia city.
PlumateLLa vesicllaris Leidy.
CcrncEcium radiating and branching attached colorless and transparent each segment slightly dilated and much broader than the protuberant orifices of exit.
Length of the segments about 1 m.m. breadth 1 m.m.
Animal colorless.
Ova oval lenticular with an annulus but without spines.
Habitation.
 Found in the Schuylkill river with the preceding on the under side of Hat stones.
Remarls.
 This species of Plumatella is as limpid as the water in which it lives  and it resembles rows of colorless vesicles with a whitish line passing through their axis.
Frequently it is observed with rows of imbricated blackish eggs instead of the latter line.
Patches are found from a quarter of an inch to two inches square.
Notices of neiu Reptiles froTii Texas.
By Edward Hailowetl M.D.
Family LACERTID.
Genus Cnemidophorus Dum et Bib.
Cnemidofhoms guttattis nob.
Char  Head olive color  body greenish olive with eight lines of the same color intermediate spaces upon sides brown sides presenting numerous white spots arranged in longitudinal rows  under surface dark blue marked with white of anterior extremities deep blue of posterior extremities and of tail white scales of the body very small  subgular fold margined with a row of large smooth scales several smaller rows anterior to them eight rows of scales upon the abdomen  16 femoral pores on each side very distinct.
Bimensionf.
 Length of head 1 inch  greatest breadth  in.
 length of head and body to vent 3 inches  of tail 4 inches  of anterior extremities 1 l8th in.
 of posterior 2i in.
Habitat.
 Texas.
Gen. Ohs  Readily distinguished from Ameiva sexlineata  allied to Cnem.
gularis but the latter is without spots.
Family CROTALID.
Genus Ceotalus Linn.
Crotalus ornatus nob.
Char.
 Three large plates in front of upper part of head on each side  nasals large  posterior part of head covered with smooth scales rostral rather large  eighteen supralabials the 6th 7th and Sth the largest  a small plate between the rostral and first supralabial and anterior frontal  27 rows of scales  ground 1854.
193 color slate or grayish above with transverse brown lozengelike bands their external nnargins extending to the abdontien with intermediate yellow spots and yellowish markings enclosed within the brown sometimes two in number the brown lozengelike spots become indistinct posteriorly and contain no yellowish spots giving to this part of the upper portion of the body a sombre appparance compared with the beautiful variegated robe of the rest about 17 of these distinct brown lozengelike spots may be counted upon the back  tail entirely black  throat and chin white  abdomen light straw color without spots but shaded with grayish.
194 abdom.
scut.
 3 bifid postabdom.
scut.
 19 subcaudal  7 rattles in the present specimen.
Dimensions  Breadth of head posteriorly 1 i inches  length of head 1  inches  of body 3 feet 3 inches  of tail 2 inches  of rattle 1 inch.
Habitat.
 Near Pecos River N. W. Texas.
The reptiles above described were found by Dr. Heermann Naturalist to the expedition for the survey of a railroad route to the Pacific under command of Lieut.
Parke U. S.
Top.'
Eng.
Descriptions of new Reptiles from Guinea.
By Edward Hallowell M.D.
Family VIPERID.
Genus Echis Merrem.
Char.
 Subcaudal plates in a single row nostrils trflnute in suture of two small scales  the anterior frontal shields minute smooth  pupil round  eyes surrounded by small scales supraciliary shields small scalelike or single elongated and distinct scales elongate keeled at the tip.
Gray.
Echis squamigera nob.
Sp.
char.
 Rostral plate much more extended in the transverse direction than vertically eleven distinct plates along the margin of the uppr jaw of which the 5th 6th 7th and 8th are the largest  the inferior margin of the eye opposite to the 4th 5th and 6th  eye surrounded with scales of which the two anterior are the largest and of nearly equal size  anterior geneials much narrower than the posterior  neck contracted  body slender compressed thicker in the middle with 18 rows of lanceolate and strongly carinated scales the lateral and inferior rows do not differ in size from the rest and are also carinated  tail short and tapering with strongly carinated quadraniiular scales.
Coloration.
 Olive green above darker ipon the tail the scales for the most part tipped with yellow posterior half of body with numerous transverse yellow fasciae about half an inch apart.
Abdom.
scuta 155 1 praeabdom.
singlej 1 postabdom.
bifid  58 single plates under the tail.
Dimensions.
 Length of head 1 inch breadth I inch length of body 17 inches  of tail 4 inches circumference at middle 1 inches.
Habitat.
 Near the river Gaboon Guinea.
One specimen presented by M.
P. Bellonni Duchaillu.
Gfii.
obs.
 This is evidently not the Echis pavo or Echis Variaof Reuss Mus.
Senkenberg. band 1 p. 157 160.
It has a certain resemblance to the figure of the Vipera pyramidarum Descript.
de I'Egypte t.7 fig.
1 but the scales upon the head in that figure are represented as all of the same size and the markings upon the body are not the same.
It has no resemblance to the Horatta Pam of Russell Indian Serpents fig.
11.
It is well characterized by the larger scales upon the vertex.
But two species of Echis have been heretofore described.
Fam.
HYLAD..
Hyla pu7ictala nob.
Gen. char.
 Heati large depressed  eyes very large and prominent  skin smooth for the most part above with a few small scattered tubercles quite 194 October abundant however upon llie thijjhs  tongue cordiform quite free posteriorly inarginale  two bundles of teeth upon the palate between the posterior nares  posterior nasal apertures lare  eustacliian foiannina quite distinct  iingers slithtly webbed  terminal pellets lare  subarticular tubercles very prominent third finder lontjt'st fourth longer than the secoMd second lonjer than the first.
Toes palmated tlie web of ihe fourth extending to the distal extremity of the penultimate phalanx  toes more slender than the fingers and the terminal pellets much less lievrjoped  typanum distinct  tibia about a line shorter than the femur  abdomen and under surface of the thighs very thickly granulated.
Coloration.
 Uniform brown above with a few sparsely scattered and small orange colored spots a narrow yellow orange colored vitta extending from the elbow along the external border of the fourth linger  a similar one but less distinct along the external border of the tarsus  color of under surface Indian yellow deeper upon the abdomen and thighs.
Dinieisioi.'.
 Length of head i of an inch greatest breadth 2 inch length of head and body 2 inches of posterior extremities 3 inches of anterior IJ inches.
Habitat.
 Near the Gaboon River Guinea.
A single specimen presented by M. P. Bellonni Duchaillu with other species of reptiles and numerous fishes crustaceans and worms from the same locality.
1854.
195 November lth 1854.
The President Mr. Ord in tbe Chair.
A paper was presented for publication from Mr. Charles Girard entitled  Characteristics of some Cartilaginous Fishes of the Pacific Coast of North America which was referred to Dr. Piand Dr. Hallowell and Dr. Leidy.
A communication was read from the Berlin Horticultural Society dated Berlin Sept. 25th 1854 transmitting donations to Library and proposing exchanges.
Referred to Committee on Proceedings.
November 21sf.
VicePresident Bridges in the Chair.
Letters were read  From the Royal Academy of Sciences of Liege dated 8th July 1854 accompanying their donation acknowledged this evening  and also acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy.
From the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna acknowledging the receipt of the publications of the Academy and desiring missing numbers of the same.
From Dr. J. Gr.
Fliigel dated Leipzig August 1 1854 in relation to certain charges for transmission of foreign works for the Academy.
A paper was read from Mr. Charles Girard intended for the Proceedings being an '' Abstract of a Report to Lieut.
Gilliss U. S. N. upon the Fishes collected during the U. S. Astronomical Expedition to Chili.
Referred to Mr. Cassin Dr.
Le Conte and Dr. Hallowell.
Dr. Leidy read a paper intended for publication in the Proceedings entitled  Notice of some fossil Bones discovered by Mr. Francis A. Lincke in the banks of the Ohio River Indiana.
Referred to Major Le Conte Dr. Zantzinger and Dr. oates.
The following resolution was unanimously adopted  Resolved That the thanks of the Society be tendered to Mr. John A. Guex for the very extensive and superb collection of Coleopterous Insects presented by him this evening to the Academy.
November 2'tli.
VicePresident Bridges in the Chair.
The Committee on Dr. Holbrook's Descriptions of Fishes of Florida reported in favor of publication in the Journal.
The Committees on Mr. Girard's papers read 14th and 21st insts.
 and on Dr. Leidy's paper read 21st inst. reported in favor of publication in the Proceedings.
190 NOVEMBER Characteristics of no me Cartiliigiiious Fishes of the I'acific coast of North America.
By Chari.es Girakd.
1.
CiiSTRACioN ntANCisci G.  The larest of these specinrieris now before us and iiieasuriiii nearly two feet bears a very strong resemblance to C. Phillippi thotiih of a somewhat more bulky appearance.
The bony ridge above the eye is much more developed and the fins are larger also.
The posterior margin of the caudal is bilobed instead of being rounded  an emarination corresponding to the top of the vertebral column.
The anal is placed farther back  its tip projectinj beyond the anterior margin of the inferior lobe of the caudal.
The posterior extremity of the ventrals extends beyond the anteiior margin of the second dorsal.
Color above yellowish grey darker in the young beneath light yellow.
Small roundish black spots are spread all over the body and lins.
Collected by Lt. W. P. Trowbridge U. S. A. in the Bay of Monterey Cal.
2.
Triakis SEMiFASCi.vn'M G.  This species is closely allied to T. scyllium from which it differs by a more backward position of the mouth or else a more developed snout.
The chagrin which covers the surface of the skin is more acute giving to the fish a more prickly aspect.
Color above olivaceous grey lighter beneath  yellowish imder the head and throat.
Dorsal region marked by transverse bands of deep black with spots of the same hue between the bands and also beneath them along the sides of the body.
A black spot exists at the base and upper surface of the ventrals and pectorals.
The caudal is spotted all over whilst the dorsals and anal are so only at their base.
Specimens were collected near Presidio in the Bay of San Francisco Cal. by Lt. W. P. Trowbridge U. S. A.
3.
SriNAX AcANTHiAs sucKLEYi G.  Specimens about twenty nine inches long.
Snout very much llattened elongated and subconical in its outline when viewed from above.
Eyes very large elongated and placed immediately in advance of the mouth.
Five branchial apertures well developed.
JNIouth large.
Dorsal fins moderate  spine of anterior dorsal rather small.
Pectorals very large and expanded concave upon tiieir posterior margin.
External margin of ventrals rounded.
Inferior lobe of caudal deeply emarginated  upper lobe long and lanceolated.
Color above of a dark grey with a few small whitish spots beneath under the head and belly dull yellowish  farther back of a light greyish hue.
Collected at Fort Steilacoom Puget Sound W. T. by Dr. Geo.
Buckley U. S. A.
4RinNOBATUs pp.oDUCTA Ayres in Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sc.
I.
1851.
 A male specimen thirty eight inches in total length brought this species to our knowledge.
The rostral distance from the eyes forwards is of a much lighter hue than the rest of the body.
A blackish band exists along the middle of the back with diffused blotches upon the sides and a double band of the same color along the middle of the snout.
Collected either at Presidio or Monterey Cal. by Lt. W. P. Trowbridge U. S. A.
5.
Raja binoculata G.  Transverse diameter from tip of one pectoral fin to the other greater than the longitudinal from tip of snout to the extremities of the ventrals.
Snout taperin
and rounded anteriorly.
Eyes moderate  orbit surrounded with spines.
A spine upon the dorsal line near the origin of the trunk.
Tail longer than the body and head together slender and flattened most of its lenuth  providoti above with a series of spines extending from its origin to the base of the first dorsal fin.
Second dorsal within a short space of the first and approximating the tip of the tail.
Ground color olivaceous brown  snout dull whitish.
A large subcircular black ring at the base of pectorals enclosing a large subcircular black spot.
At a short distance behind these may be seen a much smaller and more obsolete subcircular dark ring clouded within with 1854.
197 blackish.
Beneath dull yellowish externa
margin of ventrals blackish.
Dorsal fins olivaceous  extremity of caudal blackish with a lighter margin.
Collected by Dr. A. L. Heermannat San Francisco al. while attached to the Pacific Railroad Survey under Lt. R. S. Williamson U.
S A. Abstract of a Report to Lieut.
Jas.
M. Gilliss U.
S iV. upon the Fishes collected during' the U SiV.
Astroiiotnical Expedition to ChiliBy Charles Giuaru.
PERCID.
Genus PERCICHTHYS Girard.
Body oblong or elongated compressed covered with scales of medium development finely ciliated upon their posterior margin.
Snout rather thick and blunt overlapping slightly the lower jaw cardlike teeth on the jaws velvetlike teeth disposed upon a transverse band in front of the vomer and upon a narrow band along the palatines sometimes only towards the anterior extremity of these latter bones.
Tongue smooth.
Upper surface of head suborbitals and posterior dilatation of the upper maxillary covered with scales as well as the cheeks and opsrcular apparatus.
Suborbital and preopercle serrated.
Opercle provided with a spine.
Branchiostegals six or seven in number.
Two dorsal fins contiguous at their base.
Insertion of ventral fins immediately beneath the base of pectorals.
Anal fin provided with three spiny rays.
1.
Percichthys chilensis G.  Perca trucha Guich.
in Gay Hist de Chile Zool.
II.
1848 146 Ictiol.
Lam.
I. bis.
fig.
1.
 Snout subconical obtuse anteriorly and slightly overlapping the lower jaw.
Mouth well developed.
Posterior extremity of upper maxillary fetching the vertical of the centre of the pupil.
Limb of preopercle conspicuously serrated.
Exterior margin of suband interopercle inconspicuously so.
Soft portion of anal deeper than the height of the second dorsal.
Caudal moderately emarginated posteriorly.
Branchiostegals seven.
Ground color yellowish  upper regions covered with brownish or blackish diffused spots.
Inhabits the fresh waters of Chili.
2.
Percichthys melanops G.  Mouth of moderate size  posterior extremity of upper maxillary reaching the vertical of the anterior rim of the orbit.
Palatine teeth occupying but a small area towards the anterior extremity of these bones.
Opercular spine not very conspicuous.
Branchiostegals six.
Ground color whitish minutely and densely dotted with black dots crowding upon the middle of the scales under the shape of a central blotch giving to the whole fish quite a dark hue.
Caught in a tributary of the Rio de Maypo Chili.
Genus PERCILIA Girard.
General physiognomy percoid body compressed.
Two dorsal fins contiguous at their base broadly separated in their outline.
Mouth rather small or else o medium size jaws subequal.
Small conical teeth upon the maxillaries and a few cardlike ones upon the front of the vomer none on the palatines.
Tongue smooth.
A few minute spines along the limb of the preopercle.
Opercle without any spine.
External edge of suborbitals suband interopercle not crenated.
Branchial aperture of either side continuous under the throat.
Branchiostegals ive or six in number.
Scales quite large and posteriorly ciliated.
Cheeks and opercular apparatus scaly top of head nearly smooth and naked.
Suborbitals and maxillary scaleless.
Insertion of ventrals behind the base of pectorals.
Caudal posteriorly subcrescentic.
3.
Percilia gillissi G.  Snout short and rounded mouth small  posterior extremity of upper maxillary corresponding to the vertical of the anterior rim 198 November of the eye.
A few minute spines npon the anle of preopercle.
Scales lare conspicuously ciliated posteriorly.
Ground color iiht reddish or redilish brown maculated with black.
Inhabits the hydroraphic basin of the Rio de Maypo Chili.
ATIIERINID.
This family heretofore composed of the single genus Atlterina having been made on our part the subject of much research is now understood by us in the following manner.
The Genus ATHERINOPSIS Girard Which we have recently established is to receive such species as have no palatine teeth with both jaws equal and the snout more or less rounded.
Atheriiia metiidia Limn. and A. notaia Mitch. will come under this denomination alongside wiih A califomiensix Girard.
The Genus BASILICHTHYS Girard is characterised by the protrusion of the upper jaw beyond the lower adding to that feature small teeth on both jaws none on either the vomer or palatines the intermaxillaries constituting the upper arcade of the mouth with the maxillaries placed behind them and the upper surface of the head scaly  including  4.
Basilichthys microlepidotus G.  Atherina microlepidota Jen.
Zool.
of Beagle iv.
Fish.
1842 78.
PI.
xvi.
fig.
1 1 a.
1 b.
 Guich.
in Gay Hist de Chile Zool.
II.
1818253.
Inhabits the fresh waters of Chili.
And also Alherina laticlavia Cuv.
 Val.
 A. argentinensis Cnv.
 Val.
 A. macropluhalma Agass.
 A. botiarieusis Ctjv.
 Val.
and A. lichtcnsteiuii Cuv.
 Val.
Finally the Genus HETEROGNATHUS Girard Is based upon the elongation of the lower jaw which projects considerably beyond tbe upper one.
There are either no teeth on the palate or else they exist in a very rudimentary state only.
Atherina humbuldtiana Cuv.
 Val. and A. romerina Cuv.
 Val. will for the present constitute this genus.
SILURID.E.
Genus NEMATOGENYS Girard.
Head very much depressed and large.
Body posteriorly compressed  posterior margin of caudal fin rounded.
Anal opposite space between the dorsal and caudal.
Ventrals under the dorsal.
Mouth broad but not deeply cleft  its angle provided with a long barbel.
A second pair of subbyoidal barbels shorter than the buccal ones.
A still shorter and prenasal barbel constituting a third pair of these appendages.
Intermaxillaries and dentaries provided with a patch of cardlike teeth.
Pharyngobranchials covered with similar asperities.
Eyes rather small situated on the upper surface of head.
Opercular apparatus spineless.
Branchial apertures continuous under the throat.
A spine at the external margin of the pectoral fins.
Skin scaleless.
5.
Nematogenys inermis G.  Trichomyctertis inermis Gtiicu.
in Gay Hist de Chile Zool.
II.
1848 312 Ictiol.
Lam.
ix.
fig.
2.
Inhabits the fresh waters of Chili.
Genus TRICHOMYCTERUS Humb.
Valenc.
Head depressed and rather small.
Body anteriorly rounded  posteriorly compressed.
Caudal fin emarginated or subemarginated.
Anal under the posterior part of the dorsal and ventrals in advance of the latter.
Mouth small or of medium size inferior and provided with a double pair of barbels at its angle.
1854.
199 No barbels under the head.
One pair of prenasal barbels.
Velvetlike teeth upon the internnaxiilaries and lower jaw.
Palate smooth.
Eyes very small situated on the upper surface of head.
Opercular apparatus prickly.
Branchial openings not continuous under the throat.
Fins without any spiny rays.
Skin scaleless asd smooth.
6.
TRiCHOMTCTERrs MACULATTjs Cuv.
 Vul .
Hist.
Nat.
Poiss.
xviii 1846 493.
 GuiCH.
in Gay's Hist de Chile Zool.
II.
1848 311.
Caught in the Rio Mapocho near Santiago Chili.
CLUPEIDiE.
7.
Alosa jviTSiCA G.  Body subfusiform elongated compressed and tapering posteriorly.
Origin of ventrals opposite the middle region of dorsal.
Posterior extremity of upper naxillary reaching the vertical of anterior rim ot pupil.
Lower jaw longest.
Back bluish sides silvery.
A series of from nine to eleven roundish spots along the sides.
From Caidera Bay Chili.
8.
Engraulis pulchellus G.  Body subfusiform slender and compressed.
Origin of ventrals situated in advance of anterior margin of dorsal.
Vent immediately opposite the hind margin of same fin.
Scales higher than long.
Dorsal region purplish  sides of head and body silvery.
From Caidera Bay Chili.
CHARACINI.
Genus CHEIRODON Girard.
Body compressed  abdomen not serrated.
Adipose fin present.
Teeth upon the maxillary the intermaxillary and the dentary disposed in a single series along both jaws and dilated towards their edge which exhibits generally five acute points.
No canine.
Palate without teeth.
Scales large.
Gill openinis large.
Branchiostegal rays three in number.
Pharyngeal teeth velvetlike very minute.
Dorsal fin situated between the ventrals and the anal.
9.
Cheirodon pisciculus G.  Snout short and rounded  eyes rather large.
Maxillary teeth very small and few.
Dorsal fin higher than long.
Caudal forked.
Anal nearly as deep as long.
Ventrals and pectorals slender.
Scales proportionally very large higher than long.
A silvery band along the middle of the flanks margined above with black.
Fins unicolor olivaceous.
Inhabits the ponds in the vicinity of Santiago Chili.
MYXINOIDEA.
10.
Bdellostoma POLYTREiiA G.  Fourteen respiratoryapertures and gills on either side.
Twelve teeth on either side in the posterior as well as in the anterior row.
Eyes present.
Color not preserved in the specimen before us.
From the Bay of Valparaiso Chili.
Notice of some Fossil Bo7ies discovered hy Mr. Francis A Lincle in the baiis of the Ohio River hidiaiia.
By Joseph Leidv M.D.
Through the kindness of my friend.
Dr. J. G. Norwood of New Harmony Indiana I have had the opportimity of examining a collection of fossil bones which were obtained by Mr. Francis A. Lincke from the banks of the Ohio River near the mouth of Pigeon Creek a short distance below Evansville Indiana.
The bones are usually found in this locality sticking in the bank vpbn the water in the river is low.
The specimens are thoroughly impregnated with oxide of iron which also erves as a cement to adhering pebbles sand fragments of Unios and shells of she species oi Mela7iia canalicdata Paludinu iwiiderosa etc.
200 November The collection contains bones of the followiii' animals   Megalonyx Jefkersonii Harlan.
aTwo tibial diaphyses of the left side of young individuals.
b.
A vertebra deiitata.
e. A fraijment of an os calcis.
d. A metacarpal and a metatarsal bone.
e. An ungual haanx.
Bison A.MERiCAitus 
fossilis.
a.
A fragment of a cervical vertebra.
Cervis Virginianus fossilia.
a. Proximal half of a tibia.
b. Distal half of a tibia.
c. Proximal half of a metacarpal bone.
d. Proximal and distal halves of two metatarsal bones.
e. Portions of two scapula.
.
Proximal portion of a first rib.
g. The mutilated cranium of a doe.
h. The superior portion of the cranium of a buck  the antlers having been shed.
f. Three portions of as many lower jaws of different ages.
One contains the back five molars very much worn away  a second contains the last two molars a little worn and the third contains all the molars but the last temporary one has not been shed nor is the last true one protruded.
All these specimens correspond in size with the same parts of large individuals of the existing Cerrus virgitiianns and have the same form  and they probably belonged to the same species.
Besides these specimens fossil bones of a deer not larger than the CervKs t'irginiatiut have been bund in association with bones of the Megaloiyx Mastodon he in the vicinity of Natchez Mississippi.
In the cabinet of the Academy there are several specimens from this locality consisting of a portion of a lover jaw a fragment of an antler and the posterior and inienor portions of two crania.
Equus Americanus Leidy.
a.
The last dorsal vertebra.
Tapieus.
a.
An inferior back molar tooth of an old individual.
The crown is much worn and the fangs are long spreading and thickened.
It is larger than in the recent Tapir americauus and belongs to the supposed extinct species which I have designated as Tapirus Haysii.
Cams primvus Leidy.
This name is proposed for a species of wolf which T suppose to be indicated by a specimen in Mr. Lincke's collection of a left upper maxillary bone containing the posterior fwe molars all of which are nearly entire except the penultimate one.
The fragment however only differs from the corresponding part of the recent Canis lupus of Europe and its American congeners in being rather larger about one sixth and in its having slight variations in several of the molar teeth.
Certain naturalists may regard the fossil as an indication of a variety only of the Coitis lipuft and of the correctness of such a view  shall not attempt to decide.
Naturalists have not yet settled among themselves the question of how far characters of a specific value may be obtained from the skulls and teeth of many genera.
Most naturalists regard the Cauis lupus of Europe and the Cam's oeeidentalis and many other wolves of America as of the same species.
Certainly they possess no important osteological differences but the same may be said of the grizzly bear the polar bear and the broTn bear or of the horse the ass and the zebra or of the lion the tiger and the panther etc. etc.
Those who have attempted to define a species I think have gene1S54.
201 rally siven too much value to a mere convenient word with which naturalists empirically designate groups of organized beings possessing characters of comparative constancy so far as historic experience has guided them in giving due weight to such constancy.
The question of the origin of species whether from a single pair or from a plural stock whether by ascent from the lowest form of life in gradually diverging series or whether through innumerable miraculous interpositions 1 think is entirely independent of the former question.
To return to the fossil  the maxilla has the same form externally as in the corresponding bone of the recent wolves with which I have compared it.
The infraorbital foramen i
on a line vertical to the interval between the third and fourth molar teeth which is slightly farther back than in any of the skulls of recent wolves examined.
The penultimate molar is less concave posteriorly than in our recent specimens  and its anteroposterior diameter internally is greater in relation to the same diameter externally  in other words the tooth internally is less narrowed than in recent wolves.
It is also broader in the anteroposterior diameter when compared with its transverse diameter.
Its basal ridge externally is more abrupt and is slightly mammillated at its border.
The second and third molars have their basal ridge internally more developed which is also the case with the internal oblique ridge descending towards the cusp anteriorly.
The principal measurements of the fossil in comparison with those of the corresponding part in recent wolves are as follows  af h o B. a en 1 ME4SUREMENTS.
b5' a a  5.'
ft 2  
3 C P. c From base of crown of third molar to the upper marlities gin of maxilla ....... 24 21 24 26 31 From base of crown of fourth molar to upper margin of maxilla 36 30 34 36 41 From back of last molar to canine alveolus.
43 39i 42i 46 53 From back of last molar to front of second molar .
37 34 35i 39 45 Anteroposterior diameter of penultimate molar externally 8 n 8 8 9 Ditto at middle ....... 6i 5i 6 6 7f Breadth of do lOi 10 lOi 101 lU Anteroposterior diameter of antepenultimate molar .
13 Hi 12i 13 16 On motion of Mr. Foulke it was Resolved That a copy of the Proceedings of the Academy be presented to the Natural History Society of Schuylliill Co. Penu. at Pottsville.
