UNITED STATES AND WESTERN EUROPE IN RELATION TO THE DETERMINATION OF IDENTICAL FORMS.
BY ANGELO HEILPRIN.
The study of the fauna whether extinct or living of any country resolves itself into two distinct methods of investigation the general and the comparative.
In the general method we look upon an assemblage or community of animal forms as constituting an integral part of the country it characterizes and we then consider it only in relation to that country and to itself  the animal forms inter se.
In the second or comparative method we no longer regard this community as constituting a whole or unit but merely as a part of a more extensive community and we now view it in the relation of a part to a whole.
This comparative system of investigation which it will be manifest involves a thorough general acquaintance with all or most extraneous faunae as well as the one under special consideration is one of great difficulty and one that requires more than an ordinary amount of acumen in its pursuit for in the broad facts of geographical distribution are connected some of the profoundest biological and physical problems.
The study of comparative or geographical zoology constitutes one of the essential factors of biological science for without a true understanding of the general affinities of scattered groups of animals our conception of the organic universe would be one of disjointed parts instead of a continuous whole.
We know in fact little of a whole unless we comprehend its relation to its component parts and per contra we know little of a part unless we understand the relation it bears to the whole.
The subject of geographical distribution in its bearings on geology whether considered in its broader sense as pertaining t groups or in the more limited sense as pertaining to the individuals composing those groups cannot be overestimated.
It is by the recurrence over broad or scattered areas of certain related animal types and sometimes even over the most remote areas of identical specific forms that the palaeontologist is enabled to arrange and classify his strata.
One single welldetermined fossil will in the absence of further data frequently determine approximately 15 and sometimes exactly certain geological horizons and although we cannot in most instances as Prof. Huxley has forcibly pointed out positively or even approximately correlate as far as age is concerned distantly separated formations we can to a very great extent correlate the cosmical conditions under which the formations in question were deposited.
The correct determination therefore of all organic remains is one of the greatest importance.
Unfortunately for the development of the science the doctrine that identical specific forms cannot or ought not occur over widely separated areas has taken root in the minds of a few of the most eminent scientific investigators the baneful effects of whose authority in relation to this special line of research will be encountered by the student at almost every step in his investigations.
The science of geographical palaeontology at least as far as the invertebrata are concerned ma' be said to be in this country still in a state of infancy a circumstance parti' due to the limited number of workers in the field and partly to the influences just stated.
I have endeavored in the following pages to summarize as nearly as possible the results obtained from a series of comparisons between the Eocene mollusca of Western Europe and that of the Southeastern United States undertaken with the view of determining with a certain amount of precision the number of identical and very nearly related species.
My comparisons were in a number of cases made between actual specimens and those mainly determined in the localities to which they belong  where no specimens could be obtained I was compelled to content myself with the various analyses of the descriptions and figures afforded by the works of the most competent authorities.
The result shows a far greater intimate relationship to exist between the two faunae than one is led to suppose from an examination of the Check List prepared by Mr. Conrad for the Smithsonian Institution for 1866 where in fact only about five species are enumerated as common to the Eocene deposits of both shores of the Atlantic viz.
 Ostrea  Gryphostrea eversa Deshayes  Cardita planicosta Lam.
 
Phorus Onustus extensas Sow.
 Hipjjocrenes columbaria Defr.
 and 
Voluta Volutililhes mutata Desh.
In addition to these Conrad enumerated in 1833 Fossil shells of the Tertiary Formations p. 34 the following Solarium patulum Lam.
 S. canaliculatum Lam.
 Bulimus Niso terebellatus Lam.
 Sigaretus canaliculatus Sow.
 Calyptraea Trochita trochiformis'Lam.
 Pyrula tricarinata Lam.
 Avicula trigona Lam.
 Cytherea erycinoides Lam.
 C. subeycinoides Desh.
 Corbis lameuosa Lam.
 and Fistulana elongata Desh. most of which on examination prove to be as well American as European forms.
In the Appendix to Morton's Synopsis Synopsis of the Organic Remains of the Cretaceous Group 1834 only six European species are recognized as occurring in the American formation  Solarium canaliculatum Lam.
 S. patulum Lam.
 Bulimus terebellatus Lam.
 Gardita planicosta Lam.
 Corbis lameliosa Lam.
 and Fistulana elongata Desh.
In the list published by Conrad in 1846 Airier.
Journ.
Science 2d ser.
vol.
i. p. 219 of the preceding enumerations only two species are retained as being  analogous to transatlantic forms Cytherea Mortoni Con  Cytherea erycinoidesIjam.
 and C. suberycinoides Desh.
and A vicula limula Con.
A. trigona Lam.
 but in addition we have five new ones catalogued Cardita Blandingi Con.
C. acuticosta Lam.
 G. rotunda Lea.
C. asperula Desh.
 Cardium Nicolleti Con.
C. semigranosum  granulatum' Sow.
 Turritella Mortoni Con.

 and RosteUama laqueata Con.
R. Jissurella Lam..
Finally all species considered identical prior to 1866 are rejected as such with one exception Cardita planicosta in the Smithsonian List.
The reasons for so doing which in the majorit' of cases I believe are not stated appear to me incomprehensible.
In the introduction to his  Contributions to Geology 1833 p. 19 Mr. Lea states that he is not perfectly satisfied that a single species is strictly analogous to those from the Eocene Period of Europe  but in a note pp.
207 208 makes the following comparisons  Pasithea umbilicata Lea with Bulimus lerebellatus Lam.
 Venericardia rotunda Lea with V. squamosa Lam.
 Pectunculus obliquauus  Lea with P. nanus Desh.
 Ostrea divaricata Lea with 0.
Jlabellula Lam.
 and Solen Blainoillii Lea with Solen effusus Lam.
The list herewith appended and which it is my intention to complete at a future date will I trust increase our knowledge on the interesting questions of relationship and geographical distribution.
Ostrea divaricata Lea. 
Contributions to Geology p. 90 pi.
3 fig.
69.
0. selUvformis Conrad pars 
This oyster is referred without doubt both by Nyst  Coquilles et Polypiers Fossiles 1843 p. 323 and Giebel Repertorium to Goldfuss' u Petrefacta Germanise 1866 p. 41 to the O.flabellula of Lamarck which is a very variable and one of the most widely diffused forms of fossil oyster.
It is cited by D'Orbigny Prodr.
de paleon.
as occurring at Claiborne Ala. and by Deshayes Animaux s.
vert. bassin de Paris also at Cutch in India and Cairo in Egypt.
Pecten Deshayesii Lea.
Contr.
p. 87 pi.
3 fig.
66 et P. Lyelli ace.
to Conrad l.
This Pecten is referred with but little doubt by Nyst Coqu.
et PoL p. 288 to P.opercularis Lamk. which species however belongs to a much more recent period than the Eocene of Alabama.
On the assurance of identity Nyst in 1836 founded upon a new Belgian Pecten the specific name of Deshayesii but his fossil must be carefully distinguished from the American one in question.
Having seen but one example of Lea's species I am unable to make the proper comparisons.
Cardita rotunda Lea.
Contr.
p. 70 pi.
2 fig.
48 as Venericardia.
This species very closely resembles the Cardita imbricata of Lamarck to which in the absence of specimens it is with some hesitation referred by Nyst p. 209 and also by Bronn Index Palseontologicus I.
226.
The only difference that I could detect between the two species on an examination of numerous specimens from Grignon France and Claiborne Ala. was that in the C. imbricata there was a tendency in the ribs of the posterior slope to become crowded.
As some specimens of both forms however could not readily be distinguished from each other I believe this circumstance to be mainly accidental and therefore consider the G. rotunda as certainly nothing more than a mere variety of G. imbricata.
Cardita planicosta Lamk.
This species of Cardita which is so extensively distributed over the Eocene deposits of Europe is certainly identical with the similar forms of Cardita found in the same formation of the United States.
Lea Cont.
p. 19 states that according to his observations the American species differs from the European in the number of its costae about 29 instead of 34 but on an examination of numerous French specimens I found the number to be frequently only 29.
Cardium Nicolleti Conrad.
J.
A. N. S. viii.
p. 190.
This Cardium will I believe on close examination prove to be the G. semigranulatum of Sowerby Mineral Conchology II.
p. 99.
It does not differ from a species of Cardium in the Academy Museum marked 0. semistriatum London Clay but as the C. semistriatum Deshayes differs in the arrangement of its granulated striae from the specimen in question marked semistriatum and as the last agrees in characters with the description accorded by Sowerby to C. semigranulatum it is highly probable that the names have been simply reversed.
Corbis Gafrarium lirata Con.
A. J.
Science I. 2d ser.
p. 401.
This species was originally described by Conrad as the C. lamellosa Lam. with the characters of which it was found to agree in all essential respects.
I have been unable to note any material difference between the two species in question and do not hesitate after an examination of a number of specimens representing Lamarck's type to unite the two under the one specific name of lamellosa.
Limopsis ellipsis Lea.
Contr.
p. 78 pi.
3 fig.
56 as Pectuncnlus.
This species closely resembles in general characters the L. Sfalagmium 
Nystii of Galeotti from which it mainly differs in the greater number of teeth both in the anterior and posterior series the number in each series rarely falling below twelve.
Limopsis aviculoides Con.
Foss.
Shells of Tert. p. 39 as Pectunculus.
Pectunculus obliquus Lea.
Bronn Index Palaeont. ii. p. 936 allies this species with the Limopsis nana of Deshayes from which it differs very materially in the greater elevation of the umbones and cardinal region.
Nyst considers it as closely related to Trigonocselia auritoides Gal. but the obliquity in form is much greater in the American species.
It differs from the Limopsis aurita of Sassi Area aurita Brocchi  Conchiologia Fossile Sabapennina ii. p. 485 in having a crenulated margin.
Corbula oniscus Con.
A. J.
Science xxiii. p. 341.
C. Murchisonii Lea.
This species is referred by Bronn Index Palaeont.
to the G. rugosa of Lamarck to the description of which as given by Peshayes Coquilles Fossiles i. p. 51 it agrees in all essential respects.
As in the case of the French species it frequently resolves itself into two layers the inner of which may at first sight be readily mistaken for a new species C.bicostata 
Nyst.
The C. gibba Olivi which according to Nyst is the equivalent of C. Murchisonii Lea is a Miocene 
 Pliocene and living species.
I have been unable to institute direct comparisons for want of specimens.
Cytherea Mortoni Con.
J.
A. N. S. vii. p. 150.
This species of Cytherea was originally confounded by Conrad with the G. erycinoides Lam.
Foss.
Shells of Tert. 1832 p. 34 but a close examination shows the latter to be comparatively more elevated and its ribs to be proportionately much more robust.
Trochita trochiformis Lea.
Contr. p. 96 pi.
3 fig.
76.
This species described as new by Mr. Lea in 1833 is synonymous with T. Calyptrxa trochiformis of Lamarck Trochus apertus Brand..
Cylichna galba Con.
Foss.
Shells of Tert. p. 34 as Volvaria.
Bulla St. Hillairii Lea.
This species appears to me to be erroneously referred by Bronn to Bulla constr'icta Sow.
Miner.
Conch. vol.
v. p. 96 as Sowerb r 's species has no fold on the columella at least no mention is made of it in his description nor does it appear in his figure.
Our species appears to be closely allied to if not identical with Bulla Brocchii Bronn an Italian Miocene
species Brocchi Conch.
Foss.
Subapenn. ii. p. 217 as Bulla ovulata
Lam..
Cypraedia fenestralis Con.
Proc.
A. N. S  vii.
p. 262.
This appears to me to be identical with Cyprsea Luponia Graj' elegans of Defrance from which I cannot discover any distinguishing characters.
Conrad states that no mention is made by Deshajes in his description of the fossil of the Paris basin of  microscopical regular lines but an examination of a specimen in the Academy collection shows them to be present.
Tornatella Actseon pomilia Con.
Foss.
Shells of Tert.. p. 45.
Actceon punctatus Lea.
Monoptygma elegans Lea.
 Tornatella inflata
Ferussac.
I Tornatella Tornatellaea bella Con.
A comparison of this species with Sowerby's description and figure of Actseon simulatus Bulla simulata Brander leaves no doubt that the two species are identical.
Nor does a comparison of actual specimens from Alabama and Barton England showany varying characters.
Fusus Bulbifusus inauratus Con.
Foss.
Shells of Tert. p. 29.
This species is more closely allied to F. bulbiformis Lara. than to F. ficulneus Lam. to which last it is doubtfully referred by Bronn p. 512.
It differs from the former however in having the canal more produced in the whorls being strongly subangulate above and in the superior ones being crenulated on their basal margins.
Pyrula penita Con.
Foss.
Shells of Tert. p 32.
P. tricarinata Con.
P. cancellata Lea.
P. elegantissima Lea.
I am disposed to consider the above as identical with Pyrula nexilis Lam.
and var.
P. tricarinata Lara.
 which is a most variable fossil.
Both American and European forms appear in the most diverse stages of convexity and angulation.
Conrad although he subsequently sepaiated the transatlantic forms into two distinct species states Foss.
Shells of Tert. 2d ed. p. 39 that the variety is not distinct I am assured by comparison of many specimens.
I ara also inclined to unite with the above the P. Fusus Mississippiensis Con.
Oliva bombylis Con.
Foss.
Shells of Tert. 2d ed. p. 42.
0. constricta Lea.
Differs from the 0. mitreola Lam. in having the plications at base less numerous and somewhat less regular and in wanting the upper of the two impressed revolving lines on the body whorl.
In the absence of the line it agrees more closely with 0. nitidula which was separated by Deshayes from the 0. mitreola as a distinct species.
The 0.
Brocchii Bronn Voluta ispidula L. var.
Brocchi u Conch.
Foss.
Subapenn. ii. p. 315 pi.
iii. fig.
16 which is as well a Miocene and perhaps even living species Bronn iii. p. 481 appears to be very clearly related to our species.
Cancellaria tortiplica Con.
Am.
Journ.
of Conchol. vol.
i. p. 211.
On an examination of specimens of this species and C evalsa Brander from Barton England I find the two to be most intimately allied to each other the main difference being that the C. tortiplica is somewhat more slender and elevated.
As this may be only an accidental feature in the few examples which have come under my notice I feel but little hesitation in uniting the two as one species.
Bronn and Nyst p. 477 refer with some doubt the G. parva of Lea to Brander's type but this diminutive Alabama species has only two plaits on the columella and is destitute of varices.
Niso umbilicata Lea.
Contr. p. 103 as Pasithea.
Niso terebellatus Lamk.
I have been unable to detect the slightest difference between specimens obtained from both species.
Sigaretus canaliculars Sow.
Min.
Conch. iv. p. 115.
This shell is mentioned by Conrad Foss.
Shells of Tert. 2d ed. p. 34 as occurring at Claiborne Ala.
It is probably identical with S. declivus and S. bilix Con. which differ among themselves about as much as they do from the European species.
Solarium ornatum Lea.
Contr. p. 120.
This species is placed without doubt by Bronn ii. p. 1153 as synonymous with S. canaliculatum Lam.
The description and figures as given by Desires Coqu.
Foss. ii. p. 221 answer perfectly to the American species and I feel no doubt but that an examination of specimens of both species will prove their identity.
The S. canaliculatum is mentioned by Conrad Foss.
Shells of Tert. 2d ed. p. 34 as occurring in the Alabama Eocene deposits.
Pleurotoma denticula Bast.
Descrip.
Geol.
du Bass.
Ter.
Sudouest de la France 1825 p. 63.
On a comparison of specimens of the P. nodocarinata Gabb J.
A. N. S. 2d series vol.
iv. p. 379 with the exhaustive analysis of the above species as given by Mr. F. E. Edwards in his  Monograph of the Eocene Mollusca of England Reports of the Palasontographical Society 1 feel no hesitation in including it among the numerous varieties of Basterot's species.
No mention is made by Gabb of a division of the central crenulation into a double series but at least some of the specimens deposited in the Academy Museum and marked with his specific name show this feature distinctly.
The P. denticula is a very widely distributed species of Pleurotoma its range in Europe extending from England through Belgium  Nyst u Goqu.
et Pol.
Foss.
p. 526 and France Basterot sup.
 Grateloup  Gonchyl.
Foss.
des Terr.
Ter. atlas pi.
11 20 fig.
8 to North Italy Bellardi  Monog.
Pleurot.
Foss.
del Piem. Memorie delict Reale Accademia di Torino 2d ser. vol.
ix. p. 576.
This species corresponds probably to some extent with Sowerby's P. comma.
Unquestionable specimens of P. denticula from the Eocene of Alabama are to be found in the American Museum of Natural History of New York.
Mesostoma rugosa nob.
Proc A. N. S. Oct. 1879.
This species might readily be mistaken for the M. grata Desh. of the Paris basin from which it differs only in the greater number of its revolving ridges.
Melania Claibornensis nob.
Proc.
A. N. S. Oct. 1879.
This diminutive Melania which to my knowledge constitutes the only essentially freshwater gasteropod found to the present time in the Claiborne marine formation cannot in its characters be readily distinguished from the M. mixta Desh. of the Paris basin description and fig.
in Desh.
u Animaux s.
vert..
Having observed but one specimen and not wishing to definitely deduce its affinities from the characters drawn from a single example I have provisionally applied to the American shell the specific name which it bears above.
A close comparison of the Eocene mollusea of the east and west Atlantic shores will I am confident reveal a larger number of identical forms than those enumerated in the above list.
The Naticidse and Pectunculidse two families requiring acute revision appear more especially to be intimately related in their specific forms.
revision of the pal.2e0crin0idea.
by charles wachsmuth and frank springer.
Introduction.
According to Miller's catalogue of American paleozoic fossils there have been described in this country alone up to the summer of 1877 about 800 species of Crinoids not including Blastoids and Cystideans.
If we add to this number some 400 species from Europe an estimate which is certainly not exaggerated when we remember that Schultze described from the Devonian of the Eifel alone 73 species  DeKoninck and Le Hon from Belgium 45  and Angelin from the Silurian of Sweden 176 we have from both countries about 1250 species.
Making due allowance for synonyms we have possibly 1000 good species which are distributed among from 150 to 175 genera.
Many of the latter were established at a time when our knowledge of the Crinoids was in its infancy.
They were frequently founded upon one or two species often indeed on a single imperfect specimen  which resulted in many defective insufficient and not unfrequently incorrect descriptions producing endless perplexing complications afterwards There was a time when nearly every fossil Crinoid was IJncrinites.
This was the case almost until 1821 when J. S. Miller described his wellknown genera Poteriocrinus Actinocrinus Platycrinus Rhodocrinus and Cyathoc
inm which have been universally adopted by the later paleontologists with the exception perhaps of Cyathocrinus which was badly defined by him.
As new species were discovered the founding of additional genera progressed and generic distinctions came to be recognized between groups of forms which substantially agreed in the arrangement of the plates of the body but differed in the anal plates the construction of the arms and other characters to which but little attention had before been paid.
Through such separations it resulted in many cases that the parental genus was divided up into a number of genera and it finalty became evident that some of the features which had been considered of mere generic importance were family characters.
The majority of the genera thus established have been adopted by most of our leading paleontologists but b' some entirely ignored.
It is a singular fact that European authors have commonly refused to accept our genera of Actinocrinidse while they sustained those of the Cyathocrinidae which are certainly no better defined.
This is doubtless due to the fact that in Europe the Actinocrinidae do not abound in such wonderful variet' as in this country.
If our European brethren had to deal with nearly 300 species as we have they would perhaps be more ready to accept our divisions.
As early as 1842 T. Austin and T. Austin Jr. Rec.
 Foss.
Crinoidea undertook to subdivide the Crinoidea into families but they were not vei'y successful as they placed together types of very distinct groups.
Roemer Letluea Geognostica 1855 3d Ausgabe made another attempt in the same direction.
He was the first author who pointed out correctly the relations of the Blastoids and Cystideans with the true Crinoids  and if he was not so fortunate in establishing his families we must consider how imperfectly Crinoids were known at that time.
Some of Roemer's family names are still in use but scarcely two of our present authors interpret them alike.
The late Prof. Angelin 1 divided the Silurian Crinoids of Sweden into four sections  Trimera Tetramera Pentamera and Polymera.
A subdivision according to the number of basal plates may facilitate elemeutary studies but it is certainly not a natural classification.
Genera which are evidently intimate' related for instance Platycrinus and Dichocrinus Melocrinus and Rhodocrinus are thereby widely separated while very distinct types such as Phodocrinus and Poteriocrinus are brought together.
Angelin arranged his 40 genera of Swedish Crinoids under 23 families  but as he gave no diagnoses of them we are at a loss to know upon what principle his families were established.
In the second part of an article on the  Internal and External Structure of Paleozoic Crinoids by Chas.
Wachsmuth published in the August and September numbers of the Amer.
Journ.
Sci. 1877 one of the writers gave a minute description of the summit 1 In the Iconographia Crinoideorum in stratis Suecice Siluricis fossilium auctore N. P. Angelin opus posthumum edendum curavit Regia Academia Suecise cum tabulis XXIX.
This is one of the finest illustrated works on Crinoids that has ever been published and it must be regarded as a great loss to science that the distinguished author died before the completion of his work.
or ventral disk of the earlier Crinoids and reached the conclusion that the construction of the vault affords good characters for a separation into families.
He distinguished three principal plans though he admitted the existence of a number of others upon which the summit is constructed  1.
The summit composed of a more or less pliable sometimes perhaps squamous integument yielding to motion in the body and arms.
2.
The summit composed of solid plates with a porous ventral sac located posteriorly on the disc and closed at the top.
Anal opening rarely observed but probably lateral.
3.
The summit composed of heavy immovable plates closely joining and forming a dome arching the entire oral side.
Anal opening directly through the wall of the dome or at the extremity of a tube the socalled proboscis.
We have since given this subject our special attention and find that these diversities in the construction of the ventral portion of the body bear a striking relation to the general arrangement of the plates of the dorsal side  that the parental genera to which we have referred have each their own peculiar summit structure and that the genera into which they were subsequently subdivided are characterized by mere differentiations of the original plan.
We find that Ichthyocrinus and its congeners Taxocrinus Mespilocrinus etc. which are embraced in almost the same generic formula possess summit structure No.
1  that in Cyathocriyius Poteriocrinns Heterocrinus and all genera with five basals five subradials and five radials the summit structure agrees with No.
2 and that the Actinocrinidae Platycrinidse and Rhodocrinidse with their numerous genera are constructed like No.
3.
We consider that the last three groups are subdivisions of one great group and propose to introduce them hereafter as subfamilies.
These three or as we may say five families thus indicated include more than onehalf of all known paleozoic Crinoids.
The others we leave for future consideration.
The absence of an external oral aperture is most remarkable in the anatomy of the earlier Crinoids.
The actinostome or oral centre is situated beneath the vault and forms the radial centre of a peculiar skeleton of tubular passages which connect with the arms.
These passages beneath the vault are evidenth' homologous with the food grooves and ambulacral canals at the peristome of recent Crinoids the vault being thus a mere covering or protection.
That the mouth was internal in the majority if not all paleozoic Crinoids as well as all the Cystideans and Blastoids is very significant and impresses us most forcibly with the idea that the earlier Crinoids form a distinct group and that the solid covering may have been essential under the conditions that prevailed in paleozoic times.
The genus Lichinocrinus which Hall describes from the Lower Silurian of Cincinnati affords an instructive example in this respect.
In this interesting form the oral or ventral side was always attached to a shell coral or other foreign substance  the dorsal side has a long stem but whether this was attached to the bottom or not is not known.
The oral side when found detached which is of very rare occurrence shows a large number of striae which converge to a very small opening in the centre.
According to our interpretation this opening is the mouth the stria
the food passages and the shell to which the ventral side is attached takes the place of the vault which is as yet undeveloped.
Another very characteristic distinction between ancient and recent Crinoids is to be found in the comparative large size and massive body plates in the fossil contrasted with the diminutive body and very long and highly developed arms of recent types  and the same is even more strikingly true as to Blastoids and Cystideans.
To illustrate we might say that in the Pentacrinidse they are fully developed  that they are in progress of growth in paleozoic Crinoids and that they are only budding or sprouting in Blastoids and Cystideans  while in Lichinocrinus which is probably still lower in the scale of organization the arms have not yet made their appearance.
Upon these distinctions principally Wachsmuth Am.
Journ.
Sci. Sept. 1877 p. 190 proposed to separate the paleozoic from the recent Crinoids under the name Palocrinoidea as a suborder of the Crinoids of equal rank with the Blastoidea and Cystidea.
To facilitate a better understanding of the two groups we now direct attention to certain organs which have been known to exist in Cystideans and Blastoids and which we think existed in a modified form in the Paleocrinoids.
These organs which were called  hydrospires by Billings Am.
Journ.
Sci. July 18G9 p. 75 occupy rather large spaces within the body in the firstnamed groups and this may perhaps explain in a measure the comparatively large size of the eatyx in the older Crinoids generally.
The hydrospires were located within the perivisceral cavity connected with the inner floor of the test and communicated so far as ascer  tained through the test witli the outside water.
In the Cystideans the hydrospires are of a rhomboidal shape each rhomb being divided into two triangles by a suture between two of the plates PI.
17 Figs.
7 8..
In Caryocrinus ornatus each of the four sides of the rhombs 4s bordered bj r a row of small tubercles PI.
17 Fig.
6 some of which have a single pore in the apex while others are perforated by two to twenty or more.
The pores penetrate through the plates but do not communicate directly with the visceral cavity of the body.
Internally each hydrospire consists of a number of flattened tubes arranged parallel to each other and each tube receives two of the pores one at each end.
In a large hydrospire there are about twenty or more tubes.
Whatever may have been the special function of these tubes naturalists generally agree that they belong to the respiratory sj'stem and we infer from the distribution of the pores in variable numbers at and about the apices of the tubercles that they very probably served as a madreporic apparatus through which water for respiration was introduced and expelled.
In other genera of the Cystideans we find in the test one or more striated rhombs with fissures and pores somewhat resembling the madreporic body of other Echinoderms.
In the Blastoids there are certain orifices arranged around the actinal pole which have been called ovarian apertures on account of their supposed resemblance to similar openings in the Ophiurans but if they were connected with the reproductive organs which is by no means proved they evidently had additional important functions.
These openings appear in various forms.
We find in the earlier t r pes fissures arranged on the upper portion of the body  at a later period slits along each side of the ambulacra and in the latest and higher types five pairs of orifices which surround the oral centre.
None of these openings communicate with the general cavity of the body but they all connect with peculiar organs closely resembling the internal tubes of Caryocrinus and which are also called  hydrospires.
The hydrospires of the Blastoids though actually arranged interradially are located beneath the ambulacra and occupy the perivisceral cavity extending laterally for some distance beyond the sinus along the inner side of the forked plate.
In most genera they are constructed upon the same general plan.
There are ten sacs compare PI.
17 Fig.
5 which do not connect with each other disposed in pairs one pair to each ambulacrum and each pair separated by the lancet piece.
Toward the visceral cavity they are folded into a number of longitudinal plications which show neither pores nor passages.
The inner and outer folds alternate with each other and are distended at their closed ends.
On approaching the apex of the body they coalesce to form two separate sets of tubes.
The tubes from the inner folds are formed by the adhesion of the walls of the outer and vice versa so that the folds which open toward the visceral cavity give rise to the outer set of tubes while those opening in the opposite direction become the inner tubes.
The former terminate within coridors leading to the socalled ovarian orifices those of each two adjoining hydrospires of two different ambulacra terminating in one orifice while the latter communicate with an annular organ located against the inner wall of the test and surrounding the oral centre.
The number of folds varies from three to nine or more.
The walls of the sacs which were evidently composed of fine membranous substance must have been strengthened by the secretion of calcareous particles or they would not be found so well preserved and they were flexible since we find the folds in various degrees of expansion.
In Codaster one of the earliest and probably one of the lowest type of the Blastoids and in Codonites its subcarboniferous representative there is in place of the folded sacs a large number of tubes placed side by side and arranged parallel with the external fissures or grooves.
This structure of the hydrospires so closely resembles that of some of the Cystideans that Billings proposed to remove Codaster from the Blastoids and place it among the Cystideans.
This we cannot endorse but we do agree with him that whatever may have been the functions of the calycine pores pectinated rhombs and internal tubes in the Cystideans those of the parallel tubes or folded sacs in the Blastoids must have been very similar if not identical.
1 1 We have given above the description of the hydrospires in Pentremites.
Those of Granatocrinu8 and Nucleocrinus vary in some of the details.
One of us who devoted much time to the study of the Blastoids made a large number of sections of the hydrospires in difi'erent genera and finds No such organs have ever been described in the true Crinoids neither from the Palseocrinoidea nor the Pentacrinidae.
We have given so minute a description of the hydrospires as they occur in the C r stideans and Blastoids partly because they have been indifferently known but also in order that we may better compare with them certain organic structures which we have discovered in some Paleocrinoids and which we think still further distinguish the latter from recent Crinoids while at the same time indicating a closer relationship with the Blastoids and Cystideans.
Wachsmuth in Am.
Journ.
Sci. Aug. 1871 p. 126 noted a marked difference between the proboscis in the Actinocrinidse and that in the Cyathocrinidae.
He considered the former a mere anal tube or prolongation of the anal opening but this organ in the Cyathocrinidae he believed to be an essential part of the body in which the anal opening here located laterally and low down is of but secondary importance and therefore proposed to call it  ventral sac instead of proboscis.
We have since had occasion to examine the ventral sac in several most excellent specimens particularly with reference to the pores to which he called attention and have become convinced that these are very probably the homologues of the calycine pores in the Cj'stideans.
The plates of the ventral sac in the Gyathocrinidae are usually comparatively large rather thin hexagonal pieces longitudinally arranged alternating with those of the adjoining rows.
The pores perforate the plate at each angle.
It is now very interesting to observe that in some species for instance Poteriocrinus 31issouriensis Shum.
Pot.
Scaphiocrinus unicus Hall there are in place of the pores slitlike fissures of considerable length.
Four of these fissures sometimes six connect with those of the plates of the adjacent row those of each half of a plate meeting corresponding slits in two different plates so that one half of the fissures point upward and the other downward.
We have filed several of the plates to the very bottom and have found that the fissures pass entirely through them and in many cases where they have been observed they form longitudinal depressions along the ventral sac caused bj' the thinning of the plates toward the fissures.
In some species that they form excellent generic distinctions.
It is really astonishing how beautifully in some instances these delicate organs have been preserved.
the fissures occur not only at the lateral but also at the upper and lower sides of the plates meeting here in like manner with the slits of the adjoining plates.
In species in which the plates are provided with three slits to a side the median one is larger than the other two thus forming with the corresponding slits of the adjoining plate the figure of a quadrangle or rhomb divided into two triangles exactly as Billings describes the parallel canals which compose the hydrospires in Caiyocrinus.
Indeed the similarity which seems to exist in this respect between the two groups is so striking that we can scarcely doubt that both structures were adapted to the performance of the same functions.
It is true that the hydrospires in Garyocrinus are located on the aboral and in the Gyathocrinidse on the oral side of the body but it must be remembered as already shown Am.
Journ.
Sci. Sept. 1877 p. 190 that the entire test of paleozoic Crinoids forms a part of the abactinal system and the position of the hydrospires in Cystideans is by no means confined to the aboral side nor to the oral in Paleocrinoids.
We find in the sen us Porocrinus Billings which forms a kind of link between Cystideans and Paleocrinoids the arrangement of the plates of the calyx is exactly like that of all Cyathocrinidse that the lrydrospires are altogether confined to the calyx.
In the sutures between the plates there exist a number of striated poriferous areas resembling the pectinated rhombs in their structure and though their form and position are somewhat different from those of any other known Crinoid or Cystidean there can be no doubt that they performed in the animal the same office.
Unfortunately we do not know whether this genus had a poriferous ventral sac  nor have we been able to ascertain whether the longitudinal depressions on the ventral sac which we have noticed above were covered perhaps by perforated plates such as Billings observed upon the tubercles of Garyocrinus or only the pores and fissures but we are inclined to think the former was the case since we found in some other specimens of P. uriicusro depressions but at the same time no fissures nor pores.
In many of the Actinocriiidse Platycinidee and Rhodocrinidse which are provided with a simple anal tube or an anal opening directly through the vault the respiratory organs were probably located within the main body at least there are many facts which seem to indicate this.
In an article on page 248 of the Proceedings of the Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1878 we noted the existence 16 of certain pores or openings located between the arm bases and separated from the arm passages by a thin partition.
Their number varies from ten to twenty or more.
In Batocrinus where they are most conspicuous there are twenty no matter whether the species has more or less than twenty arms.
They are about onethird the size of the arm passages with which tliey are in very near the same horizontal plane.
There are two pores to each interradial field one to the left of one arm and one to the right of another.
Ten other pores have a radial position two within each of the five axillary spaces which form the median portion of the rays.
In Strotocrinus which has an enormous body each arm has a pore and so in Steganocrinus Eucladocrinas and apparently in all genera in which the arms branch off alternately.
Other genera have only ten pores.
In Ollacrinus the pores are represented by two longitudinal passages through the tubular extensions of the interradial series or the false arms as usually called.
As these openings especial in Batocrimis are comparatively large it is somewhat surprising that they have never been mentioned by other paleontologists.
Their position corresponds almost exactly with that of the socalled ovarian apertures of the Blastoids though they are placed at a greater distance from the radial centre.
The openings in both groups are situated within the brachial zone or at the extreme border of the summit.
In the Blastoids the ventral disc or summit is reduced to the minimum in size being composed only of the covering of the ventral opening  and this explains why the orifices are here found close to the radial centre while in the forms above named they are located away from it.
The pseudambulacral fields of the Blastoids represent the ventral groove of a recumbent arm and the small passages which enter the body near the apex and beneath the central covering are the homologues of the arm passages in the true Crinoids.
Compare PI.
17 Fig.
4.
The socalled ovarian openings are therefore located beside the arms just as the pores in Batocrinus and this strongly indicates a similarity in their functions.
In addition to this the perivisceral cavity in the Actinocrinid.se contains a number of chambers and from the brachial zone down to the base is separated from the visceral cavity by a peculiar partition or network pierced by innumerable pores and passages leading toward the visceral cavity which contains the digestive apparatus.
Whether the above described pores communicated with these chambers cannot be determined from the fossil but we may perhaps infer this from their position and also that the chambers themselves were or contained organs similar to those described as hydrospires in other groups of the Crinoidea.
Folded sacs or parallel tubes as in the Blastoids have not hitherto been noticed in the Pahieocrinoidea.
That they existed in some groups of the latter is almost certain.
The socalled consolidating apparatus of Cupressocrinus PI.
17 Fig.
3 is in our opinion a true set of hydrospires arranged in pairs exactly as in Blastoids but spreading out horizontally instead of vertically.
Angelin Iconogr.
Crin. PI.
VIII.
Fig.
7 a b figures a Crotalocrinus in which the consolidating apparatus or hydrospires as we believe is most excellently preserved.
Even the inner tubes can be traced and if there existed still a doubt Avhether the closely related Cupressowinus had its ventral side firmly closed Angelin's figure PI.
VIII.
Fig.
6 ought to remove it.
There seems to be in Crotalocrinus not only a solid integument covering the entire ventral disc and inclosing the hydrospires but we judge from Fig.
7 of the preceding plate that the oral centre or median space between the hydrospires had even a double covering.
It seems to us that there can scarcely be a doubt but that the consolidating plates of Cyathocrinus PI.
17 Fig.
2 are homologous with the oral plates of the Pentacrinoid larva PI.
17 Fij 1 and ought to be designated as such and further that the socalled consolidating plates of Cupressocrinus are the homologues of the deltoid pieces of the Blastoids PI.
17 Fig.
4.
It will be seen that all four occupy the same relative position in the respective types.
There are five interradial plates which join at their sides extending inward but so as to leave an opening at the oral centre.
The affinities indeed are so striking that we think it not unreasonable to suppose that the ln'drospires are metamorphosed oral plates.
The construction of the deltoid pieces is very complicated only the median or deltoid portion being visible externally.
Thej' are extended laterally in spadeshaped appendages PI.
17 Fig.
4 which pass under the am.
bulacral fields and are hidden by them.
To these appendages the folds of the hydrospires are attached being suspended on each side of the ambulacrum or modified arm and partly covered by it.
In the socalled consolidating plates of Cupressocrinus we find precisely the same structure.
Each plate has lateral extensions each of which supports a set of folds which incline in opposite directions.
The number of folds varies in different species Cupressocrinus abbreviates having apparent
j r seven and C. gracilis but two or three and so in the Blastoids Pentremites pyriformis has seven folds and P. Godoni but five.
As the folds of two different plates are not connected laterally a sort of depression or groove is formed in a radial direction which evidently contained the food passage covering the sutures between the plates as the pseudambulacral folds cover those of the deltoid pieces in the Blastoids.
The socalled consolidating plates with their folds of Cupressocrinus and the deltoid pieces with their appended hydrospires in Blastoids being not only analogous in position but also almost identical ih structure it is very evident that they had .a similar office in the animal organism and that if these organs in Blastoids were respiratory the hydrospires in Cupressocrinus and Crotalocrinus had the same functions.
This view r of the relations of the parts under consideration suggests a possible analogy in the general structure of Blastoids and Paleocrinoids in which we may consider that the ambulacrum is a recumbent arm  the lower part of the forked plate up to the ambulacrum is the first radial in Blastoidocrinus the oldest known Blastoidthe suture is visible that the two sides of the fork instead of being interradial form together a second radial and the small summit plates are homologous with those which cover the central opening between the oral plates in Cyathocrinus or to the entire vault in the Actinocrinidas etc. in which the oral plates do not exist at least not externally.
The food groove and ambulacral canal are located upon the pseudambulacral fold which represents the ventral groove in the arms of the Crinoids and are likewise covered by two rows of alternating plates.
If these homologies be correct it is evident that there is a much closer relation between Paleocrinoids and Blastoids in fundamental structure than has been heretofore supposed and as we find in the former the representatives both of parallel tubes and folded sacs it is eyident that their hj'drospires are constructed upon a cystidean and blastoidean plan combined.
We have now noticed the principal forms in which these organs have been observed there are however a large number of forms in which no trace of them has as yet been discovered.
These include among others the Ichthyocrinidse and a few genera of the Arfnocrinidse and Cyathocrinidae.
In the Ichthyocrinidse respiration may have been carried on through the pliant vault aided by the expansions and contractions which the flexible nature of the skeleton could produce.
In the Actinocrinidse however the body as in the Blastoids is perfectly rigid the plates heavy and firmty cemented together.
There are no other openings in the body but the anal aperture the arm passages a passage through the column and the pores between the arm bases which we have described.
In some genera however the lastnamed pores apparently do not exist.
The introduction of water through the anal tube need not be considered for a moment nor through the arms which in no group of the Echinoderms perform such an office.
Let us examine the column.
The construction of the column varies in different genera.
It is perforated throughout the centre by a passage connecting with the interior of the body which in some cases is a simple small round opening while in others it is very large and marked by a peculiarly complicated internal structure.
In the latter the tubular cavity extends to all the branches which spring off rather numerously toward the root.
It is mostly pentamerous though in some cases trior quadripartite  it is sometimes regularly pentagonal and sometimes divided into five petaloid chambers which unite at the centre.
The walls within appear as if built up of thin lamina with spaces between sometimes pectinated and variously sculptured all producing a great multiplication of exposed surfaces.
In some the articulating faces of the stem segments are covered with striae radiating from the centre which resemble minute pores penetrating the walls.
We have found the very base of one of these large columns just as it was attached to the rock or other flat surface.
It is very broad and deeply channelled on the bottom and there are numerous branches or unattached cyrrhi all of which are perforated and through which there was ample communication with the surrounding water.
In addition to this there are large pores near the base of the column leading from without into the main cavity directly through the walls.
Such an extraordinary structure was not necessary if the column was merely an attachment or anchor for the Crinoid.
That it was a means of communication between the water outside and the internal organs of the body for some purpose we entertain no doubt and the large amount of surface exposed by means of the complex lamellar structure is strongly suggestive of the principle which prevails in the respiratory apparatus in the animal kingdom generally.
We have said that some Actinocrinids probably do not possess the pores in the body.
It is very significant that it is in these very forms thatwe find columns such as we have just described.
Indeed in general so far as we have been able to observe we have found it to be the rule that those types which have a perforated ventral sac are without pores in the calyx that those with calycine pores do not possess a perforated ventral sac and that in forms with a flexible vault or with perforated ventral sac or with pores in the body walls the column is generally destitute of any such complex structure and has only a small simple aperture.
There may be exceptions to this  in fact we know of some but these relate exclusively to veiy large species in which the openings in the main body which we suppose to be respirator' passages are inadequate to supply the immense body.
The most remarkable examples of this kind are Megistocrinus and Barycrinus.
The former which belongs to the Actinocrinidae has species with larger bodily capacity than has been discovered in any other genus.
It has generally only ten primary arms and most probably only ten respiratory pores in the body.
Barycrinus attains by far the greatest size of the Cyathocrinidee and the column of this genus like that of Megistocrinus is not only very strong but its central cavit r is exceedingly large and complicated.
We thus have in these two genera apparently another mode of communication from the outside which may have been either a cause or an effect of their extreme size.
All these facts have led us to suppose that the column was in some cases and perhaps more or less in the Paleocrinoids generally subservient to respiration.
This supposition would not only account for the complicated structure of the column where it exits but furnish a plausible explanation as to how the introduction of water was effected in species in which apparently no other openings are present.
With these observations which we hope will at least be suggestive of some interesting points and perhaps stimulate more detailed observation we pass to another matter of considerable importance as bearing upon classification.
Prof. P. Herbert Carpenter in a valuable paper Quarterly Journ.
Microscop.
Sci. vol.
xviii new series p. 351 on the Oral and Apical Systems of the Eehinoderms undertakes to determine the homologies between that system of plates in the calcareous skeleton of the Echini known as apical plates and certain parts of the calyx of Crinoids both recent and fossil.
He considers the basals of recent Crinoids to be homologous to the genital plates and the radial s to the ocular plates of the Echini and he traces the homology to the Paloeocrinoidea in respect to which however he advances the opinion that the first ring of plates resting upon the upper stem segment which have heretofore been nominated basals are in many types not basals at all.
He regards the set of plates which lie next below the radials as the true basals no matter whether they rest directly upon the stem as in Platycrin us or are separated from it by another ring of plates as in Cyalhocrinus so that the subradials of most American authors or parabasals as they are generally termed in Europe are basals according to his view.
The lowest or proximal ring of plates in types having subradials he calls underbasals and these he believes to be unrepresented in the other types of Crinoids and all other Eehinoderms.
The central plate of the apical system represented by the central disk or subanal plate of the Echini is thought by Carpenter to be the homologue of the terminal joint at the base of the stem in all pedunculated Crinoids and in the Pentacrinoid larva of Comatula and of the central plate in Marsupite.
In several respects these views conflict with those of A. Agassiz and Loven who regard the subanal plate of the Echini as the homologue of the centrodorsal plate of Comatula and both these as representing the basals of the Crinoids by which term they designate the first ring of plates above the stem in all types.
They consider the single plate in the apical system of the Echini as the equivalent of the basalia of the Crinoids metamorphosed into one.
Carpenter's reasoning in regard to the basal plates is that as the genitals in the Echini and the basals in most Paleocrinoids which are generally considered to be their homologues are situated interradially with regard to the general symmetry of the tyxly we must expect to find the genitals in Paleocrinoids in the same relative position  and that in forms like Cyathocrinus which have two rings of plates below the radials the lower or proximal plates are situated in line with the radials and hence cannot be the true basals.
He holds that the same order of plates cannot be radial in one genus and interradial in another.
This argument is unquestionably a very strong one and we are enabled to confirm it by a number of interesting observations.
Let us consider the first ring of plates resting upon the upper stem joint in Crinoids where it consists of less than five as a metamorphosed representative of a set of five plates in which two or more have been united by anchylosis.
It will be observed that in nearly all types with but one ring of plates below the radials i.e. forms without subradials the proximal ring is so placed that the angles alternate with those of the radials so that the whole set whether five plates or not may very appropriately be considered as interradial with regard to the general structure of the body.
In forms like Platycrinux Symbathocrinus etc. in which the radials rest directly upon a basal disc composed of three unequal plates if we bisect the two larger we obtain five equal plates which occup an interradial position.
This is actually done in Belemnocrinus which in the apical system has the identical structure of Bhizocrinus and most of the iecent Crinoids viz. five basals interradially situated supporting five radials.
In 3Ielocrinas and Eucalyptocrinits where the proximal ring consists of four plates we may divide the larger one and thus obtain five plates which though not wholly regular in form are all interradial in position.
In Actinocrinus which has three equal plates in the basal disc and Dichocrinus which has two and allied genera an apparent difficulty is presented for if we subdivide these plates we have six basals instead of five.
But here the structure is precisely the same in principle as in the foregoing cases.
The six plates are interradial in position and the presence of the anal plate in the same range with the first radials necessitates an additional plate in the basal ring for its support so that the two plates which support it are equivalent to one.
The anal plates are actually nothing more than an interradial series with a special function viz. the support of the anal apparatus within the body and of an opening in the vault which may be either directly through the test or prolonged into a tube.
In some of the Ichthyocrinidee the anal is not distinguishable from any interradial series.
The presence of the anal series as an element in the structure of many Paleocrinoids may be largely clue to the solid dome which has to be penetrated by a special aperture requiring some modification of the general structure below to accommodate it.
It seems to have no direct representative in the apical system of the recent Echinoderms but we may be justified in considering it as a specialized interradial and in that case the basals of the forms under consideration are found to conform entirely to Carpenter's interpretation being interradially disposed.
We find a most interesting confirmation of this view in a specimen of Actinocrinus Sfrotocrinus umbrosus which has abnormally no first anal plate the first radials joining at their sides.
The anal series in form and proportions is very similar.
to the other interradials being chiefly distinguished by having three plates in the second range instead of two as in the others.
Accordingly we find the basal disc in this specimen reduced to three unequal plates and if we bisect the two larger we obtain five equal plates interradially situated just as in Platycrinus.
Nature herself in this isolated specimen has thus beautifully illustrated our argument.
It is well to note in this connection that in Platycrinus and all genera with three unequal plates in the proximal ring the small plate is never so far as we have observed on the anal side and this is the case with the abnormal specimen above described the small plate being situated below the suture of the left posterior and lateral rays.
Why this is so we are as yet unable to explain.
In forms like Gyathocrinas Rhodocrinus etc. which have two rings of five plates each the proximal plates are radially situated and therefore according to Carpenter cannot be basals or homologous to the genitals but the second ring of plates or subradials being interradial in position are the true basals and the homologues of the genitals.
If now we examine those types with two rings below the radials in which the proximal ring consists of less than five plates we shall find his idea still further confirmed.
In the Ichthyocrinidse except Calpiocrinus
which have in the proximal ring three unequal plates they are so proportioned and so situated that if we divide them by two additional sutures into five about equal plates these fine will be radially situated and exactly equivalent to the corresponding set of plates in Gyathocrinus.
In Gissocrinus one of Angelin's Upper Silurian genera from Gotland which is in every other respect a true Cyathocrinus there are but three unequal plates in the proximal ring showing here an actual metamorphosis of five plates into three.
In Cupressocrinus which has a single central plate below the  subradials pierced by the quadripartite perforation of the column it might at first seem difficult to subdivide the proximal plate in this manner.
But it will be noted that it is really radial in position since its five external angles alternate with those of the subradials and furthermore we find that nature has done it for us in a precisely similar case.
Myrlillocrinus whose base is perforated by a quadrangular foramen has its proximal ring divided into five small pieces alternating with subradials and hence radial in position loth New York Regents' Rep. p.
142.
It is worthy of note that in the form last discussed those with two rings below the radials the proximal plates are almost invariably very small and in many cases so minute as to be hidden by the column thus in their insignificance affording an argument against comparing them with the genitals.
They seem to be early developed for they are as large in the j'oung as in the adult and do not show much increase in proportions in later geological epochs.
I In some Gyalhocrinidse the proximal ring sometimes attains considerable proportionate size and it seems to have developed in geological time for we find in the Lower Silurian genus Heterocrinus that this set of plates is represented in an extremely rudimentary stage being only faintly visible between the sutures of the basals subradials and these plates seem to be minute in most similar Silurian genera.
Yet it must not be overlooked that in many cases where the proximal plates are scarcely visible externally they are quite prominent internally often larger than the  subradials.
This is especially the case in forms with a concave base.
In most genera with one ring of plates below the radials the proximal plates are large and prominent contrasting in a marked degree with the proximal plates in the two forms last considered.
There are a few genera anomalous in structure which cannot with our present knowledge of them be satisfactorily brought within the above comparison such as Calceocrinus Gatillocrinus Pisocrinus and perhaps others.
The Blastoids with their uniform arrangement of plates agree well with Carpenter's interpretation the three basals being divisible into five plates interradially arranged.
All these facts seem to indicate that the subradials in genera where the' exist are really the basals and in such simple forms as Cyathocrinus it seems very reasonable to consider these plates as the homolognes of the genitals and the radials as the ocular plates in the apical system of the Echini.
In more complex forms such as the Actinocrinidse Rhodocrinidx.
Ichthyocrinidse etc. there would seem at first to be an objection to this interpretation arising from the fact that there are several other orders of plates both radial and interradial within the body walls and that in these cases as in Cyathocrinidee we should find the homologues of the apical plates of the Echini in the entire calyx or the whole series of plates of the aboral side up to the region of the arms and not in the two rings alone which Carpenter points out as such in other words that the apical plates in the Echini cannot be homologized with some few plates in the calyx of Paloeocrinoidea.
In the younger stages of Paleocrinoids the higher series of radials are unconnected by interradial or axillary plates as may be seen most beautifully illustrated in the growth of Strotocrinus It is also probable that at a still earlier period in the life of these Crinoids the second and third primary radials constituted a free raj' as in the more simply constructed Gyathocrinus.
In Actinocrinus etc. the basals which according to Carpenter are homologous to the subradials in other families and the genitals in Echini develop very early in the young and attain almost their full size when even the first radials are comparatively much smaller.
We have in our possession a Cynthocrnnus not more than half an inch in length including the arms and a portion of the column in which while the proximal plates are comparatively small the socalled  subradials are developed to an extraordinary degree far more than the radials.
The specimen in this stage looks remarkably like Billing's Lower Silurian genus Hybocrinus in which the first interradial ring of plates is enormously prominent and gibbous while the proximal ring is apparently wanting or if it exists is very minute.
1 See our paper on  Transition forms in Crinoids Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad. 1878 p. 233 and also pp.
229235 for illustrations of development in the parts in question in successive epochs.
It is now a very important fact that these two rings of plates .
the first radial s and the interradial set of plates next below them are the only ones which are found in all Crinoids from the earliest geological ages to the present time.
It thus appears that the evidence derived from the embryology of the Pentacrinoid and the observed mode and order of development in the Paleocrinoids during individual life is fully and beautifully confirmed by the geological history of Crinoids.
All this evidence seems to us to be conclusive and to prove satisfactorily that the two rings of plates regarded by Carpenter as genitals and oculars are the fundamental parts in the aboral side of the calcareous skeleton and that the subsequent orders of radials and interradials are to be considered as supplementary to them and as the products of growth in the individual and development in geological time.
Our conclusions being thus in harmony with Prof. Carpenter's views we think it both logical and expedient to adopt his terms and call the first ring of plates below the radials  basals in all cases and the second ring below or the proximal plates when there are two rings  underbasals thus discontinuing the term  subradials'' altogether.
We cannot however agree with Carpenter in supposing as he does p. 374 that the underbasals have no representative in the apical S3'stem of other Crinoids or Echinoderms.
We incline to the opinion of Agassiz Loven and others that theare homologous with the central disc or su banal plate of the Echini and with the centrodorsal plate of Gomatula.
In the paleozoic genus Jgassizocrinus which was evidently pedunculate in its earlier stages but became a freefloater when mature we find in the proximal ring in young specimens five plates with a central perforation in the disc and a distinct articulating scar for the attachment of the column.
In the free stages however every trace of the central foramen and of the columnar attachment has disappeared and in most of the specimens not even a vestige of the sutures formerh existing between the plates can be detected.
In some they can still be faintly observed but only near the edges upon which the succeeding plates rest and not in the median portion of the disc.
Another example of this is seen in Edriocrinus New York Geol.
Rep. vol.
iii.
pp.
11920 in which the bodies are when young attached to each other or to other solid bodies and in maturity become free and a calcareous deposit is secreted around the base which covers and obliterates the sutures between the plates.
Here again we have an actual metamorphosis during the life of the individual of five plates into one and this seems to us to be strongly confirmatory of the views of Agassiz and Loven.
We are inclined to think that the plate within the ring of underbasals when it exists as in Marsupites represents the column of Crinoids generally.
Having thus discussed the relations and distinctions between some groups of the Crinoids and the differences between the Palseocrinoidea and the Stomatocrinoidea so we should like to call all Crinoids which have an external mouth we think it proper to indicate briefly the principles which we shall endeavor to follow in our more detailed work.
Classification.
In attempting to make a sjstematic classification of the Paleocrinoids into families and genera we encounter the difficulties which usually confront us when we undertake to ascertain and define any divisions as they exist in nature.
We can readily recognize in groups of fossils certain broad characters by which it seems natural and satisfactory to bring them together and we generally find in the characteristic types of the respective groups an association of other characters by which they appear sharply marked  and so long as we have to deal with typical forms in isolated specimens or groups the work is simple enough.
But when we begin to investigate large collections and in a measure to stud' comparatively all the known material from specimens or descriptions we find the subject bristling with perplexing questions.
Types are found to shade into one another characters are commingled through processes of transition which sadly interfere with the nice definitions we think we have worked out.
How to deal with such forms has always been a troublesome question with naturalists and the diverse methods of treating it have given rise to much confusion.
We have found it especially perplexing in endeavoring to define the genera of the Crinoids.
We find for instance two groups each embracing a number of species and we discover general characters which nicel separate them.
Further researches presently reveal to us certain forms including perhaps several species which while agreeing with one group in most of the characters persistently differ from it in some one feature and perhaps in this feature the' agree with the other group.
The question then arises what is to be done in cases where there are aberrant forms departing from one type in the direction of another and blending the characters of the two
Are we to say that our groupings are worthless and the two must be thrown into one
This produces confusion and stands in the way of systematic study and besides we will then probably be no nearer the truth for we shall doubtless find a similar relation between the group thus formed and some other which will demand a similar consolidation.
On the other hand shall we stand by the distinctions we have discovered and range our transitional or aberrant forms into subgroups by themselves and designate them by proper appellations
We are clearly of the opinion that the latter judiciously pursued is the true course both with regard to convenience of study and to facilitate the discovery of a natural classification.
Without entering into any discussion of the value of these or any other groups as expressions of actual divisions in nature we propose to adopt this method of tieattnent and to recognize subgenera or subgroups of whatever dignity as the facts may seem to warrant.
In so doing we find it decidedly preferable to give each group a name by itself and consider it as standing alone in its proper rank and not to name it parenthetically as a mere adjunct to the parent group.
If we err on the side of too narrow distinctions this will only lead to renewed researches and ultimately to the truth.
By adopting this course we are also enabled to retain many generic names founded upon good characters as revealed to the authors by the material at their command and thus give to many investigators deserved credit for work which would otherwise have to be wholly ignored.
We have in some cases found it necessary to revise and reconstruct the genus in order to bring if possible some order out of the confusion into which its literature had fallen.
In doing this we have endeavored to give effect to the evident intention of the founder of the genus and to improve the diagnosis by the aid of more extensive material than he had access to as well as by the aid of the labors of other investigators.
It will be well in this connection to point out the structural distinctions which we regard as important in the separation of families and genera.
On a former page we have alluded to the dome which we believe affords excellent characters for separation into families.
The general plan upon which it is constructed whether rigid or flexible composed of movable or immovable plates with large oral plates or covered with numerous small pieces whether provided with a ventral sac the location of the anus all of these in our opinion form good family distinctions.
Next to the vault must be considered the general construction of the calyx the elements of which it consists whether it has a subbasal zone the presence or absence of interradials as a rule whether the animal was pedunculate or free floating and last but not least the structure and position of the respiratory organs.
Among the best generic characters in these Crinoids we find the following The general form of the body the distribution and arrangement of the different plates both in the vault and in tlie calyx particularly the plates of the anal area and their proportions  the form and position of the apical dome plates the position of the anus and whether consisting of a proboscis or simple opening  the form of the column the shape and proportional size of its central passage the construction of the arms and pinnulae.
The arms and pinnulae of the Paheocrinoidea have not received the attention which they deserve at least not as to their generic importance.
A careful study of these organs as they occur in different genera has convinced us that not only the arms but also the pinnulae in their variation in their presence or absence afford generic characters.
Only of late years has attention been drawn to the ambulacral groove of the arm when it was shown from actual observation that in some genera the furrow is covered by small plates alternately arranged.
Meek and Worthen describe the arms of Symbathocrinus as being covered by two rows of single plates arranged in alternation and a similar structure has been discovered to exist in the arms of Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus.
In Gupressocrinus according to Schultze the furrow is braced over like a roof.
In Cyathocrinus Iowensis according to Wachsmuth and apparently in Gissocrinus Angelin the furrow is covered by two rows of two successive plates the plates of one row alternating with those of the other.
In Cyathocrinus longimanus Angl.
Iconogr.
Crin.
PI.
2G Figs.
4 5 there are in place of only two a series of five successive plates from each side alternately arranged.
The plates of each side taper toward the end and infold over the furrow covering it as perfectly and in the same manner as in the two former cases.
Angelin gives no description but in his table of contents he calls the successive plates from each side  pinnulse.
It is easily seen that the covering to which we refer in the abovementioned genera is constructed upon exactly the same principle.
It makes but little difference whether there are two single plates or two rows of plates alternating with each other and it seems evident to us that if in one case they represent pinnulse we may well consider them to be the same in the other.
It is here important to note that in those genera in which the ambulacral groove is thus covered no regular pinnules have ever been observed and moreover the construction is such that no additional pinnulse could have existed while on the other hand no covering has ever been discovered in forms with true pinnulse.
From our observation we are of opinion that the pinnulse generally in the Palaeocrinoidea served partly as a cover or protection for the furrow.
In a specimen of Graphiocrinus tortuos'ts Hall in our collection the pinnulse cover the furrow so perfectly that we were for some time led to consider them as a solid integument composed of regular spiniferous plates.
With a good magnifier however we clearly detected the joints of the pinnulse which are here so placed that the little spines with which their sides ae provided stand up erect.
In the Actwocrinidse and Platycrinidse the pinnulse are long comparatively slender and so closely arranged side b r side that it appears as if they were connected laterally which we think is realty the case in some groups.
When the arms are closed the two series of pinnulse of one arm are laid upon each other so neatly that the arm furrow must have been thereby perfectly shut off from the surrounding water.
No additional covering has yet been observed in these genera and it was evidently unnecessaiy.
All this seems to point to the conclusion that the pinnulse had the same functions partly at least as the alternate plates in Gyathocrinus etc. and as both have the same position and evidently could be opened and closed by the animal we do not hesitate to consider the latter as the homologue of the former or in fact as rudimentary pinnulse.
1879.
natural sciences op philadelphia.
249 Terminology etc.
There is considerable confusion in the literature of Crinoids even among contemporaneous writers as to the terms emploj'ed to designate the different parts of the animal.
It is to be regretted that there is not some means of establishing uniformity in this respect as this would no doubt promote better results in investigation.
We believe it to be especially desirable and for the interest of science that there should be a better understanding on this subject between Zoologists and Paleontologists so that the same terms ma 7 be used so far as possible for similar parts in both fossil and living forms.
We will not assume to say how this should be brought about but would be glad to see it undertaken by those of more experience and authority in both fields.
To avoid misunderstanding of our work we give herewith a list of the principal terms employed with the definitions as understood and used by us.
We do not seek so much to introduce new terms as to select the best in our judgment of those already known to our branch of science and then to use them consistently.
Explanation of Terms.
Boot  extremity of column where attached.
Gyrrhi  radicular appendages springing from the periphery of column joints or in Comatula from the centrodorsal plate.
Column or stem  jointed cylindrical structure below the body.
Body  the frame of the animal excluding column and arms.
Test  the calcareous shell inclosing the internal organs.
Calyx  the dorsal cup or the test of the abactinal or dorsal side up to the arms  aboral side.
Vault dome summit  the test above the arms  the plated covering on the ventral side  oral side  actinal side.
Ventral sac  vertical extension of the vault in its posterior area closed at the extremity.
Anal tube or proboscis  posterior vertical elongation of the vault with anal opening at its extremity.
The term  proboscis is so generally used that we feel compelled to retain it although there is a serious objection to its use.
The word implies that it is an oral organ used for feeding which is beyond the slightest doubt directly contrary to the fact.
17 Posterior side  the anal side of the body.
Anterior side  the side opposite the anal area.
Bight or left  viewed from the posterior side.
Rays  the whole collective succession of plates from the first radial up.
Free rays  radial extensions of the body unconnected b r interradial plates.
Arms  radial extensions or branches from the body with a furrOw on the ventral side.
Pinnules  small jointed solid appendages alternately arranged along the arms.
Tentacles  soft prehensile organs along the ambulacral furrow of the arms and pinnules.
Ambulacral furrow  groove on the ventral side of the arms and pinnules containing ambulacral canal and food passages.
Proximal plates  those next to the column.
Underbasals  the second ring of plates below the radials heretofore called  basals  pelvis of European authors.
Basals  the first ring of plates below the radials interradially disposed equivalent to  subradials and  parabasals botli of which terms are discontinued by us.
Radials all the plates of the body above the basals radially situated.
Primary radials  those in the rays below the first bifurcation.
Secondary radials  those between the first and second bifurcation.
Tertiary radials  those between the second and third bifurcation and so on up to the arms.
Brachials  free radial plates supporting the arms.
In our former descriptions we have used the term  brachials for that series of radial plates within the body walls which leads to an arm opening following Hall and others.
Finding however that this term has been previously applied to the  free radials by Johannes Miiller and has been adopted by Roemer Schultze and the zoologists generally we propose to discontinue it as applied to the former plates which hereafter will be designated simply as radials of their respective orders.
Interradials  plates between the rays and forming a part of the body.
Axillary plates  plates between the divisions of the rays  intersupravadials of Hall and other authors.
Interbrachials  plates between the arm openings of each ray.
This term is not strictly correct when taken in connection with our definition of brachials but it has been long used in this sense and as no confusion is likely to arise we think it best to retain it.
Anals  the series of interradial plates which support the anal opening or tube.
Apical dome plates  the system of plates in the vault which occupy a position analogous to that of the apical plates of the calyx.
They consist 1 of a central plate at the apex of the dome  2 of five large plates there are generally four large and two small ones the two latter equivalent to one being separated by the anal area arranged around the apex interradially disposed and corresponding to the first radials 3 of five radial dome plates alternating with the last and corresponding to the first radials.
Wachsmuth Ainer.
Journ.
Sci. Sept. 1877 p. 187 called the first seven of these plates apical plates.
This must be changed to avoid confusion as the genitals and oculars of Echini are designated by the same term.
We now apply the term  apical dome plates to the whole system of principal vault pieces.
These plates which have no representation in the structure of the Stomatocrinoidea nor Echini exist in a greatly reduced form in the Blastoids but are specially characteristic of the Actinocrinidae Platycriuidae etc.
The single plate at the apex we propose to call the central dome plates  the first ring of interradials surrounding it the proximal dome plates and the next ring radially situated the radial dome plates.
Oral plates  large interradial plates covering in form of a pyramid the oral side of the Pentacrinoid larva Wyville Thomson and Carpenter  consolidating plates in Cyathocrinus Wachsmuth  deltoid pieces in Blastoidea.
The term  consolidating plates is discontinued.
Hydrospires  certain organic structures in connection with the inner walls of the test composed of parallel tubes or folded sacs probably in connection with the water system.
Respiratory pores or orifices  openings through the test in connection with the hydrospires apparently for the introduction of water for respiratory purposes.
In the discussion of the different genera we shall give with each a full list of the species which belong to it in our opinion independent of the opinion of others and this will cause many changes in the reference of species.
It cannot be expected that these lists will be free from mistakes though we have studied each species with great care the majority of them from the specimens and besides our own extensive collections one of us had occasion a few years ago to examine the original collections of De Konnick and Schultze now in theMuseum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge.
Nor can it be expected that iu a general work on Crinoids like this we shall give a full list of synonyms and we have not attempted to do so.
This can only be thoroughly done by the collector who has given his attention for years to the fossils of his own locality and is able to identify them from the least fragment.
We shall give the synonyms of the subcarboniferous Crinoids of the Mississippi Valley which we have made our special study and we hope that investigators will do the same for other localities and formations.
We shall feel under special obligations to any of our scientific friends for any information they may be able to furnish us either in the way of specimens or observations which may contribute to a more thorough understanding and truthful presentation of the subject.
We particularly desire this as we intend to embody the results of all our investigations in this field in a future work to be issued with ample illustrations.
We take this opportunity to tender our thanks to Prof. A. Agassiz of Cambridge Prof. A. H. Worthen of Illinois Prof. S. H. Calvin of Iowa City Prof. A. Gr.
Wetherb of Cincinnati Dr. James Knapp of Louisville Dr. Harrod of Canton Dr. K. Zittel of Munich Dr. F. Roemer of Breslau and to Prof. Trautschold of Moscow Russ. for valuable assistance courteously extended to us in the loan of books or specimens.
Note.
Species founded upon mere fragments of column are not recognized by us and their names are enumerated only in the list of s3 r noii3ms and doubtful species.
All species marked in front with an  are referred to said genus for the first time.
PALEOCRINOIDEA.
A SUBORDER OF THE CRINOIDEA.
Body as compared with recent Crinoids larger arms shorter test stronger.
The latter is arranged on various plans but is alwas composed of solid plates of which the interradials in contrast to the Stomatocrinoidea constitute important elements.
Plates of the aboral or dorsal side forming a cup closed on the ventral or oral side by a more or less solid integument without external food grooves or oral aperture.
The food conve r ed through openings at the base of the arms into the body and carried to the oral centre by means of internal or subtegminal passages.
Anus either in form of a plated tube or a simple opening subcentral or lateral.
The introduction of water for respiratory purposes seems to have been effected through small openings or pores which penetrate the test.
These openings which in some groups were located in the oral in others in the aboral regions seem to have been connected with peculiar organs within the body closely resembling the socalled hydrospires of Cystideans and Blastoids.
The Paleocrinoids with but few exceptions were pedunculate attached during lifetime.
Flourishing abundantly in the Silurian seas they reach their climax in the Subcarboniferous as well in variety of form as in number of individuals and they disappear almost entirely during the Carboniferous few forms if any surviving as late as Mezozoic times.
'o Family I. ICHTHYOCRINIDiE.
Diagram PI.
15 Fig.
1.
General form of the body including arms globose to pyriform.
Column strong perforation of medium size generally pentangular.
Underbasals three of unequal size  always small often rudimentary and not visible externally being hidden by the column.
Basals five moderately small sometimes scarcely appearing beyond the column in Calpiocrinus probably absent or imperfectly developed.
Primary radials three to five by five almost equal in form and size.
Radials of each order smaller by half than those of the preceding and of uniform size.
Arms bifurcating short strong tapering upward the tips infolding composed of single joints.
Pinnulae unknown.
In most of the genera the arms lie side by side touching laterally so as to form with the calyx an apparently compact wall.
Radial and arm plates frequently have undulating sutures or additional patelloid plates.
The radials up to the second or even the third order form a part of the body being connected laterally either by a sort of squamous integument composed of very minute irregular plates or by distinct interradial and axillary plates the former varying in number from one to thirty or more the anal area containing frequently a few additional plates.
Anus unknown except in Taxocrinus and Onychocrinus which have a small lateral tube.
Ventral disc rarely preserved composed of a more or less soft or scaly integument yielding to motion in the bod r and arms.
This family might very appropriately be called the Articulates of the Paleozoic Crinoids being especiall' distinguished in most of its species by a peculiarity of structure which prevails throughout the rays and arms.
The plates have rather shallow excavations on their outer upper margins corresponding to projections on the lower edge of the succeeding plates which sometimes take the form of superficial patelloid plates independently articulated and sometimes anchylosed with the margin of the plate above.
This feature produces what seems to be an articulate structure in the whole skeleton and indicates that the body as well as the arms was somewhat flexible.
The interradial areas are sometimes found depressed and in other cases distended showing that there had been some expansion or contraction of the body walls due to the mobility of the radial parts and indicating likewise flexibility in the vault.
This feature which is found so far as we know in no other family together with the fact that in most of the genera a ventral covering has never been found preserved leads us to infer that this portion of the body was more or less composed of rather fragile perhaps scaly material instead of solid plates.
If these Crinoids had been provided with a rigid dome the little projections along the radial and arm plates would have interfered with the spreading of the arms which is rather facilitated by the mobility of the dorsal side and the pliant nature of the vault.
Such motions would be likewise aided by the patelloid plates which are generally found in large species and in those in which the interradial spaces are comparatively rigid.
In Onychocrinus the genus which evidently possessed the greatest expansive power the radial areas being frequently found spread out horizontally there are toward the inner or ventral side of the rays rather large plates to which smaller ones are joined which connect with the interradial series.
They decrease in size and thickness inwardly and connect with the dome plates.
In a specimen of Onychocrinus exsculptus Lyon and another of 0. diversus Hall we found the median portion of the vault preserved the plates being irregularly arranged rather large and thin.
This important observation goes far toward proving that the Ichthyocrinidse had no external oral aperture for if any of the family were likely to have it it would be Onychocrinus.
The Ichthyocrinidae are nearest related to the C yathocrinidse from which they differ in having several orders of radials included within the body  in the articulate structure of the radial portions in the presence of interradial plates within the regions of the calyx and in the pliant vault.
The separation of the genera in this family has alwajs been attended with difficulty and it cannot be denied that several of them shade into one another in a most perplexing manner.
They are very closely related and yet there is a habitus peculiar to typical forms of each genus which is not easity described but which is readily perceived when large collections are brought together and which Paleontologists discerned at an early day.
It is the gradations the transition forms which make trouble and have given rise to continual modifications of the generic formulae in hope of reconciling them with new discoveries.
While we cannot expect that the divisions we have made are wholly free from errors yet we find when we arrange the different species according to the generic characters herein given that the groupings are more nearly conformable to the recognized habitus of the fossils than any we have been able to make heretofore and we are encouraged to hope that we may have approximated more closely to the natural divisions.
The Ichthyocrinidse range from the Lower Silurian to the close of the Subcarboniferous.
We recognize the following genera  1.
ICHTHYOCRINUS Conrad.
1836.
Euryocrinus.
Pliill.
Geology of Yorksh. p. 205.
1842.
IcMliyocrinus Conrad.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad. vol.
viii.
p. 279.
1851.
IcMliyocrinus d'Orbigny.
Conrs.
elem.
Pal.
ii.
p. 144.
1851.
IcMliyocrinus Hall.
Geol.
Rep. N. York vol.
ii.
p. 195.
1878.
IcMliyocrinus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 13.
1878.
IcMliyocrinus Wachs.
 Springer.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad. p. 252.
A.
Typical form.
General form of body including arms ovoid to pyriform with almost equilateral pentamerous symmetry.
Calyx bowl or cupshaped.
Underbasals three rudimentary of unequal size sometimes seen only within the calyx.
Basals five very small their upper angles acute.
Radial plates of adjacent rays alternately arranged.
Primary radials three to four by five wide and short height about equal but increasing in width rapidly upward the plates being wider at their upper margins than .at the lower.
Secondary and tertiary radials similar in form to the primaries quadrangular in general outline though realty pentangular and hexangular those of the same order of equal height and half the width of those of the next order.
Arms twenty to sixty or more accumbent infolding at the tips and forming with the calyx an apparently solid structure.
They are composed of single joints which are heavy wider than high quadrangular usually with waving sutures.
Arm furrows shallow tripartite.
Pinnulre unknown.
Interradial and anal plates generally absent or undeveloped at the outside I. nobilis Wachs.
 Spr.
alone to our knowledge possessing both the are longitudinally arranged but the anal side cannot be distinguished.
Vault unknown.
Column composed of very short joints near the top increasing gradually in length downwards.
Central perforation of medium size pentagonal.
The most striking feature of this genus by which it is easily recognized is its symmetrical equilateral figure and this pervades the whole body.
Hall in his diagram Geol.
Rep. N. York vol.
ii. pi.
45 fig.
2 figures a small intercalated plate in line with the subradials which is evidently accidental.
He does not mention it in his generic description nor can we find it in any of our specimens.
Angelin mentions a single anal plate which is not to be found in his figure.
The presence of anal interradial and even axillary plates in I. nobilis which as far as known is the latest representative of the genus is very instructive as it shows the approach to Forbesiocrinus.
In young specimens these plates are undeveloped externally but are plainly visible on the inner surface of the calyx.
Phillips in 1836 Geology of Yorksh. p. 205 described the genus Euryocrinus which is possibly the same as Ichthyocrinus and might be entitled to priority but his description and figures are so unintelligible that this would be injustice to Conrad.
Phillips' generic description reads as follows Pelvis opening pentagonal arrangement of plates like Encrinus internal cavity very large.
Not much better are his figures since they induced Bronn to consider Euryocrinus as a synonym of Actinocrinus.
Geological and Geographical distribution.
Ichthyocrinus is found first in the Upper Silurian where it is represented in Europe by 3 species in North America by 5.
None have been observed in rocks of Devonian age.
In the Subcarboniferous 3 species have been discovered in America none in Europe unless we count Euryocrinus concavus Phillips.
We regard the following species as belonging to this genus 1858.
Ichthyocrinus Burlingtonensis Hall.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pi.
ii. p. 557.
Lower Burling liuiest.
Burlington.
1852.
Ichthyocrinus Clintonensis Hall.
Geol.
Rep. N. Y. vol.
ii.
p. 181 pi.
41 figs.
6 a b c. Niagara gr.
New York State.
1865.
Ichthyocrinus Corbis Winchell  Marcy.
Memoirs Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
i.  No.
1 p. S9.
Niagara gr.
Chicago 111.
Regarded by Hall as syn.
of Ichthyocr.
subangularis.
1879.
Ichthyocrinus Gotlandicus Waehs.
 Spr.
Ichthyocr.
laevis Angl.
not Conrad.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 13 pi.
9 figs.
87 ac and pi.
22 figs.
20 21.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
The Swedish specimens which by Angelin were identified as I. laevis Conr. are very distinct from the New York species which Conrad described.
The European form is pearshaped instead of ovoid the plates ornamented but without any surface angularity and with nearl 3' straight sutures while the New York specimens have plates with smooth but angular surface and very distinct waving sutures.
We therefore suggest their separation and propose to call the Swedish form 2.
Gotlandicus.
1878.
Ichthyocrinus intermedius Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crin. p. 13 pi.
17 fig.
7.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1842.
Ichthyocrinus lsevis Conrad not Angl.
Type for the genus.
Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad. vol.
xiii.
p. 279 pi.
15 fig.
16 also 1852 Hall Pal.
N. York vol.
ii.
p. 195 pi.
43 fig.
2.
Niagara gr.
Lockport N. Y.
1878.
Ichthyocrinus nobilis Wach.
 Spr.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad. p. 254.
Upper Burl and Keokuk transition bed.
Burlington Iowa.
1839.
Ichthyocrinus pyriformis Phillips.
Cyathocr.
pyriformis.
Sil.
System p. 672 pi.
17 fig.
6 also Iconogr.
Crin. p. 13 pi.
17 fig.
6 and pi.
22 fig.
22.
Upper Silur.
England and Sweden.
1852.
Ichthyocrinus simplex Hall.
Lecanocr.
simplex.
Geol.
Rep. N. York vol.
ii.
p. 202. pi.
44 figs.
2 a b e. Niagara gr.
Lockport N. Y.
Hall's figure evidently represents a young Ichthyocrinus and not a young Lecanocrinus as he supposed.
1862.
Ichthyocrinus subangularis Hall.
Trans.
Alban.
Inst Article xii. p. 7.
Niagara gr.
Waldron Ind.
1850.
Ichthyocrinus tiarseformis Troost.
Cyathocr.
tiarseformis.
Troost's Catal. and Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. part ii. p. 558.
Subcarbon.
Tennessee.
B. Subgenus HOMALOCRINUS Angelin.
1878.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 11.
We consider Homalocrinus not sufficiently distinct from Ichthyocrinus to rank it as a full genus but propose the name for a division under Ichthyocrinus.
The following is a translation of Angelin's generic description  Body including arms ovoid.
Basals three small.
Parabasals five triangular placed between the sides of the primary radials.
Primary radials transverse and in the form of a half moon.
Interradials three the lower one heptagonal and laroe with two small ones above.
Anals three subequal.
Rays several times dichotomizing.
Angelin described Ichlhyowinus without interradials or anals and it seems that upon this feature mainly he separates Homalocrinus.
We find however in the only known species the anal area slightly different from the interradial and the primary radials instead of increasing from the base upward as is the case in all Ichllujocrini decrease in the same direction the first radial being here the larger plate.
The latter feature has induced us to retain Homalocrinus subgenerically and place it under Ichthyocrinus with which it has the closest affinities.
1878.
Homalocrinus parabasilis Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crin. p. 11 pi.
16 figs.
29 30.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
2.
CLEIOCRINTJS Billings.
1856.
Geol.
Surv.
Canada p. 276.
1B59.
lb.
Decade i v. p. 52.
The generic description was made from a single specimen and this was in several respects defective.
Cleiocrinus has according to Billings five basals alternating with the radials and forming with them a belt around the column.
Such a structure has never been found in any Crinoid.
In the typical specimen the comparatively large column conceals from view the lower part of the calyx a space large enough to accommodate one or two series of plates and analogy suggests that this may have been the case.
The five plates which Billings found alternating with the primary radials and which he called basals are certainly interradials  and as the specimen in every visible character closely resembles Ichthyocrinus and allied forms we have good reason to suppose that it like those forms possessed five small basals and three underbasals both hidden by the column.
The latter were probably very minute and rudimentary since the specimen is from the Lower Silurian where it is almost the only representative of the family.
This alone induces us to try to define generic characters from a single imperfect specimen.
Notwithstanding therefore that some of the elements are problematic we propose until something better is found the following Revised generic description.
Cahx obconical or pyriform with bilateral symmetry.
Underbasals probably three minute or rudimentary.
Basals probably five very small and hidden by the column.
Primary radials three by five increasing in width upwards supporting several superior orders of radials all dichotomizing uniformly and interlocking laterally with those of adjoining rays.
Interradials so far as known one.
Anals four to five longitudinally arranged.
G. regius has six orders of radials the number of plates doubling with each bifurcation which gives in the sixth order 64 brachials to each ray or 320 to the individual.
Whether the small appendages wmich are seen at the top of the specimen were arms cannot be determined from the figure.
The only known species is 1856.
Cleiocrinus regius Billings.
Geol.
Rep. Canada p. 276  and 1859 Decade iv. p. 53 pi.
5 figs.
1 ag. Trenton lituest.
Ottawa Can.
Billings refers to this genus two other species C. grandis and C. magnificus which he described from mere fragments of the column but which we cannot recognize.
The fragments may belong to C. regius or to almost any other genus.
3.
ANISOCRINUS Angelin 1878.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 13.
General form of body including arms ellipsoid.
Calyx bowlshaped  figure bilateral.
Underbasals three hidden by the column.
Basals of medium size dissimilar in form.
Primary radials three to five the first widest almost as large as second and third together the second smallest of all.
Secondarjr radials two gradually increasing in size upward the bifurcating plate almost as wide as the third primary radial.
Arms apparently free above the secondaiy radials accumbent as in Ichthyocrinus and composed of transverse joints.
Interradials one sometimes with a small triangular piece above very large resting with the lower angle against the short upper lateral sides of the first radials forming with them a compact wall.
Anals two very large the upper one the largest plate in the body  the acute angle of the lower leaning against the basals with the lower lateral sides iesting against the adjoining s u brad ials and its upper lateral sides against the large first radials.
The second anal plate rests upon the upper truncated side of the lower one being in line with the interradial plates and reaches like them up to the top of the secondaiy radials.
The arrangement and size of the interradial and anal plates are the characteristic features of this genus.
Angelin's descriptions are rather indistinct on this point and in order to have it properly understood we give almost a specific description which will probably have to be modified when more species are discovered.
Only two species are known.
1878.
Anisocrinus interradiatus Angelin.
Type for the genus.
Iconogr.
Crin. p. 13 pi.
22 figs.
18 18 a.
Upper Silur.
Gotland.
1852.
Anisocrinus Angelini Wachs.
 Spr.
Lecanoerinus macopetalus Angelin not Hnll.
Iconogr.
Crin. p. 12 pi.
19 figs.
3 4 and pi.
22 fig.
24.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
The Swedish form with its enormous interradial plate is not onty specifically but even generically distinct from Lecanocr.
macropetalus Hall.
Of the two specimens figured by Angelin the one pi.
19 fig.
3 agrees in every respect with Anisocrinus while the other fig.
4 differs from it in having a small evidently abnormal plate intercalated on the posterior side.
We propose for this species the name of Anisocrinus Angelini in honor of the lateProf. Angelin the author of the genus.
4.
CALPIOCRINUS Angelin.
1878.
Calpiocrinus Angl.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12.
1878.
ClidocMrus Angl.
syn..
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12.
General form of body with the arms closed ovoid or pyriform.
Calyx bowlshaped composed apparently of only one ring of plates below the radials figure bilateral.
This ring consists of three plates one of them small the two larger ones equal forming together a pentagonal disc.
Primary radials three by five three times wider than high differing in size and form the first one lunate the second quadrangular the third and largest pentagonal.
Secondary radials three to four about equal in size except those in the posterior rays whose lateral margins retreat to give space for the large anal plates.
The upper secondary radials support the arms some of which bifurcate while others remain free.
Arms similar to those of Ichthyocrinus their sides closely abutting forming a wall continuous with that of the calyx.
Arm joints transverse quadrangular.
Interradials rarely more than one which is small wedged in between the second and third radials of adjacent rays.
Anals three to five longitudinally arranged the lower and smallest which is almost triangular resting upon the basal plates the upper one extending to the top of the secondary radials.
Column slender round composed of very thin segments  central perforation small stellate.
This genus as described by Angelin differs from all the rest of the family in having but one ring of plates below the radials and this consists of three plates unequal but apparently so proportioned as to be partly radial and partly interradial in position.
The various figures however disagree in the latter respect.
Such a structure would seem to warrant its separation into a distinct family but as Calpiocrinus agrees in all other characters witli the Ichthyocrinidae we feel satisfied that it naturally belongs here.
We are inclined to think that in this genus the lower ring of plates is the analogue of the underbasals and that the true basals if not absent are exceedingly rudimentary.
We take the small triangular plate which has been called the first anal plate to be the basal subradial on the posterior side which is larger in the whole family and that the plates on the four other sides are very minute or only visible in the inside.
The presence of but one ring of plates visible below the radials the bilateral symmetry of the calyx and the longitudinal arrangement of the anal plates are the most prominent characters of the genus.
Angelin on the same page describes the genus Clidochirus with a single species which agrees with Calpiocrinus in every respect except that it has no interradial plates and four instead of three first radials variations which may be expected even in the same species.
Geological and Geographical Distribution.
Found thus far only in the Upper Silurian of Gotland where the following species have been discovered 1878.
Calpiocrinus fimbriatus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12 pi.
29 figs.
77 a b.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Calpiocrinus heterodactylus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12 pi.
3 fig.
10 a and pi.
26 fig.
8.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Calpiocrinus humilis Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12 pi.
23 figs.
28 ac and pi.
26 fig.
17.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Calpiocrinus ovatus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12 pi.
16 figs.
1719.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Calpiocrinus pyrum Angelin.
Clidochirus pyrum.
Iconogr.
Crinoid  p. 12 pi.
22. fig.
23.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
5 LECANOCRINUS Hall.
1852.
Lecanocrinus Hall.
Geol.
Rep. N. Y. vol.
ii.
p. 199.
1867.
Lecanocrinus Shultze.
Monogr.
Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalkes p. 40.
1678.
Lecanocrinus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12.
A.
Typical firm.
General form of body and arms suhglobose to pyriform.
Calyx bowlshaped unsymmetrical plates heavy.
Underbasals three unequal in size larger than generally found in the family.
Basals five three pentagonal or hexagonal the two others having an additional side for the lateral insertion of a small anal plate.
Primary radials two or three by five very short and wide the first one largest.
Secondary radials one to three or more varying in number even in the individual.
Arms precisely as in Ichlhyocrinus.
Inter radials generally absent.
Anal plates two the lower one lying obliquely toward the right 1 side of 1 It is worthy of note that in all Paleocrinoids so far as observed in which the anal arrangement is unsymmetrical the odd plates are pushed out toward the right never to the left.
the body between the two unequal basals the adjoining radial and the other anal plate.
The second or upper and larger anal plate is interposed between the primary radials and the upper truncated side of the posterior basal.
Column round composed of rather large joints.
Hall Schultze and Angelin mention no interradials in their generic descriptions but the latter figures a specimen from Gotland which he refers to L. macropetalus Hall.
It has one exceedingly large interradial to each area which occupies a wide space between the rays opposite all the primary radials and as high as the top of the second or third secondary radial.
No New York specimen of this species has ever been found with such a plate or even a trace of it and as the two differ besides decidedly in the size of the basals in the form and proportions of the body and in other characters we consider the Swedish form even generically distinct.
See Anisocrinus Angelini W.  Spr..
Geological and Geographical Distribution.
This genus is represented in the Upper Silurian by 5 species 4 from America and 1 from Europe.
From the Devonian but a single species is known and none from the Subcarboniferous.
The following are the known species  1878.
Lecanocrinus Billingsi Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 12 pi.
22 fig.
25 a.
Upper Silur.
Gotland SweJ.
1852 Lecanocrinus calyculus
Hull.
Geol.
Reps. N. Y. vol.
ii.
p. 203 pi.
46 figs.
3 a b. Niagara gr.
Upper Silur.
Lockport N. Y.
1858.
Lecanocrinus macropetalus Hall not Angelin.
Anisocrinus Angelini W.  Spr..
Type of the genus.
Geol.
Rep. N. Y. Vol.
ii.
p. 199 pi.
45 figs.
1 ah. Niagara gr.
Lockport N. Y.
1852.
Lecanocrinus ornatus Hall.
Geol.
Rep. N. Y.. vol.
ii.
p. 201 pi.
44 figs.
2 am. Niagara gr.
Lockport N. Y.
1862.
Lecanocrinus pusillus Hall.
Cyathocr.
pusillus.
New Foss.
of Niagara gr.
p. 6 and 28th Rep. N. Y.
State Cab.
Nat.
Hist  pi.
15 figs.
16.
Niagara gr.
Waldron Ind.
Winchell and Marcy Memoirs Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. p.  0 described a cast from the Niagara limestone of Chicago under the species Lecanocr.
pusillus which is probably identical with Hall's Cyathocrinus pusillus.
The description is not sufficient to decide it fully.
1867.
Lecanocrinus Rcemeri Schultze.
Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk p. 41 pi.
3 figs.
8 ag. Devonian.
Eifel Germ.
B. Subgenus PYCNOSACCUS Angelin.
1878.
Iconogr.
Crinoid p. 13.
The distinction between Pycnosaccus and Lecanocrinus seems to us scarcely sufficient to warrant a full generic separation.
The two agree in all essential features except that the former according to description has two primary radials instead of three and that the plates of the calyx are ornamented by radiating ridges such as are frequently found in Barycrinus.
Even in that genus the ornamentation is not constant and at the most is a verunreliable character.
In L. Rozmeri Schultze which has entirely smooth plates we find in two rays only two primary radials as in Pycnosaccus.
It is very significant that if we consider the first and second radials of Lecanocrinus as one plate we obtain exactly the proportions of the first radial in Pycnosaccus which in our opinion here replaces the first and second radials while the bifurcating second radial of Pycnosaccus actually represents the third radial of Lecanocrinus.
Form of body arrangement of the anal plates and construction and folding of the arms precisely as in Lecanocrinus only that the arm plates are slightly higher.
1878.
Pycnosaccus 
costatus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid p. 14 pi.
15 fig.
13 Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
This species belongs probably to the Cyathocrinidse 
.
1878.
Pycnosaccus nodulosus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 14 pi.
15 figs.
12 14 and pi.
28 fig.
29.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1840.
Pycnosaccus scrobiculatus Hisinger.
Cyathocrinites scrobiculatusT.
Leth.
Suec.
Supplem.
ii.
p. 6 pi.
39 figs.
4 ac  also 1878 Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 14 pi.
15 figs.
10 11.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
6.
MESPILOCRINUS De Koninck  Lehon.
1853.
Mespilocrinus de Kon.
 Lehon.
Recher.
s. les Crin.
Carb.
Belg. p. 111.
1836.
Young Poteriocrinus Phillips.
Geol.
Yorksh. vol.
ii.
p. 205.
1866.
Lecanocrinus Schultze.
Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk. p. 40.
1859.
Mespilocrinus Hall.
Supplem.
Iowa Geol.
Rep. p. 69.
General form of body with arms globular to pyriform very small.
Calj'x bilateral though apparently unsymmetrical on account of the dextrorse arrangement of the arms.
Underbasals three unequal one quadrangular the other two larger and pentangular.
Basals five four of them equal the fifth larger and hexagonal its upper face parallel with the lower.
Radials three by five the first forming part of the basal cup.
Second radials wedgeform shorter but as wide as the first.
The third radials support two arms which bifurcate once.
The arms are extremely short composed of very few joints tapering rapidly upward infolding inclined obliquely from left to right and when closed they fit so neatly one into the other that it appears as if they formed together with the calyx a continuous body.
Arm joints single slightly cuneate.
Inter radials none.
Anals one subquadrangular resting upon the larger basal.
Column round composed of thin joints near the body increasing in length so rapidly towards its base that in four inches the joints attain a length of half an inch.
Central perforation of medium size.
L. Schultze in his Monograph der Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk. p. 40 pronounces Mespilocrinus a synoivyra of Lecanocrinus.
In this he is evidentby mistaken.
Lecanocrinus has arms like Ichthyocrinus while those of Mespilocrinus in place of being straight are turned to the right and the radial and arm plates are consequently wedgeform instead of rectangular.
Schultze's Lecanocrinus Rcemeri on which he based the above conclusion is a most interesting species to show the relations between the two genera.
It occurs in the Devonian and zoologically occupies an intermediate position between the Silurian form Lecanocrinus and Mespilocrinus of the Subcarboniferous.
L. Bcemeri not only has very short arms but they fold up almost as in Mespilocrinus yet they have rectangular joints and are not deflected.
The species has also the unsymmetrieal arrangement of the anal area but the odd plate is here exceedingly small and has when combined with the large one exactly form and proportions of the single anal plate in Mespilocrinus thus approaching and foreshadowing the bilateral form which succeeded in the Subcarboniferous.
Mespilocrinus seems to be strictly a subcarboniferous genus and only four species are known  1853 Mespilocrinus Forbesianus De Koninck andLehon.
Recherch .
Crin.
Belg.
 p. 112 pi.
ii. figs.
1 ac. Mountain liuiest.
England and Belgium.
1853.
Mespilocrinus granifer De Koninck and Lehon.
Recherch.
Crinoid Belg. p. 114 pi.
ii  figs.
6 ac. Mountain limest.
Vise Belgium.
1859.
Mespilocrinus Konincki Hall.
Supplem.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa p. 69.
Burlingt.
limest.
Burlington Iowa.
1861.
Mespilocrinus scitulus Hall.
Prelim.
Not.
New Pal.
Crinoids p. 9.
Burlingt.
limest.
Burlington Iowa.
18 7.
TAXOCRINTJS Phillips.
1836.
Poteriocrinus Phillips in part.
Geol.
Yorksh. toI.
i.
not Miller.
1841.
Isocrinus Phillips.
Pal.
Foss.
Cornw.
not H. von Meyer 1837.
1842.
Cladocrinus Austin.
Ann.
 Mag.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
x.
not Agassiz.
1843.
Taxoerinus Phillips.
Morris's Cat.
Brit.
Foss. p. 90.
1851.
Cyathocrinus Roemer.
Leth.
Geognost.
3te Ausgabe p. 233 not Miller.
1853.
Forbesiocrinus de Kon.
 Leh.
in part.
Recherch.
Crinoid.
Belg.
p. 119.
1866.
Taxoerinus Schultze.
Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalkes p. 33.
1878.
Taxoerinus Angelin.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 8.
1878.
Taxoerinus. subgenus of JchtJiyocrinus Wachsm.
 Spr.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad.
p. 252.
According to Phillips Morris's Catal.
Brit.
Foss  Taxoerinus has  5 basals  3 radial plates in 5 series  arms dividing upon the third radial and frequently dichotomizing above this point arms and branches of single series of joints interbrachial and axillary plates.
This description embraces almost every genus of the Ichthyocrinidse among them Fo7  besiocrinus.
Johannes Miiller Monatsbericht der Berliner Akademie March 1858 was the first who mentioned the presence in Taxoerinus of three small pieces within the parabasalia basals similar to those found by Hall in Ichthyocrinus and in species which were supposed to be Forbesiocrinus.
Miiller's discovery was evidently overlooked by Hall who in 1858 described his Taxoerinus interscapulars with five basals and no subradials and in 1861 and even later he refers several species with three basals and five subradials to Forbesiocrinus which undoubtedly belong to Taxoerinus.
Schultze in his description of Phillips genus Monogr.
p. 32 calls the small plates  cryptobasalia because they are always hidden by the column and sometimes only visible within the calyx.
The tripartite proximal ring rudimentar' in some instances is now admitted to belong to all the genera which we include among the Ichthyocrinidse and it therefore no longer forms a generic distinction.
The separation of Taxoerinus and Forbesiocrinus has always been a stumbling block to Paleontologists.
De Koninck and Lehon gave as the principal distinction that Taxoerinus had no anal nor interradial plates while Forbesiocrinus had both and sometimes a large number of them.
In 1866 both Meek  Worthen and Schultze wrote on this subject and arrived independently at the same conclusion.
The former in an elaborate article in the Illinois Geological Report vol.
ii.
p. 270 show that the same species may have sometimes no interradials and again from one to three.
They refer to Taxocrinus Hall's Foibesiocrinus Thiemei which was described as having no interradials but which has sometimes two and which we have even found with as many as five regular interradial plates.
The one according to De Koninck would be Taxocrinus the other Forbesiocrinus.
To amend the generic formula so as to admit species with one or two series of interradials did not seem to those authors expedient since the species exhibit such a wide range of variation in this character.
Nor do they consider the presence of axillaiy plates which occur in both groups nor the small patelliform supplementary pieces of some welldefined species of Forbesiocrinus a means of distinction inasmuch as they are not always present in otherwise typical forms of that group  while wellmarked species of Taxocrinus are described as showing the patelloid plates between the arm joints.
Meek and Worthen therefore concluded until more distinctive characters should be discovered to place Forbesiocrinus embracing species with many interradial and anal plates as a mere section under Taxocrinus.
Schultze found in his Devonian species almost every character of Forbesiocrinus except the small patelloid plates but whether these were sufficient to distinguish it from Taxocrinus he did not wisli to decide and so he placed the species from the Eifel in which these plates do not occur .under Taxoci'inus.
He however included with this genus species which evidently belong to very distinct genera.
Angelin in the Iconographia Crinoideorum Suecias pp.
8 9 gives generic descriptions both of Taxocrinus and Forbesiocrinus and ranges under the two genera several new species.
His descriptions only differ so far as we understand them in this  that in Forbesiocrinus the number of primary radials is left an open question while in Taxocrinus the number is fixed at 3 X 5  that the former had one large hexagonal anal plate he evidently meant to judge from his figures and other smaller ones succeeding and a considerable number of interradials the lower one much the largest while Taxocrinus has two series of anals and several interradials.
The three underbasals are comparatively large in both groups.
Angelin's descriptions of both genera are short and give us but little additional information regarding their relations on the contrary they rather increase the difficulty as none of his species of Taxocrinus or Forbesiocrinus are true representatives of either thus raising the question whether the Swedish species ought not to be considered as types of new genera or at least be separated subgenerically.
We prefer the latter course and propose Gnorimocrinus for the former and Lithocrinus for the latter.
Phillips in proposing the genus Taxocrinus included in it the following species in the order in which we give them viz. Poteriocrinus Egertoni Phill.
2.
Cyathocrinus tuberculatum Miller.
1 3.
Cyathocrinus macrodactylus and 4.
Cyathocrinus nobili Phill.
The first of these a subcarboniferous species with no or but few interradials must be considered according to the most generally accepted rules of naturalists the type of the genus.
The second and third species have but one or two interradials T. tuberculatus according to Pictet's figure one or two anals resting on the upper truncated side of the large basal.
The fourth species was Koninck  Lehon's type of their genus Forbesiocrinus.
Now comparing the anal arrangement of the latter or rather of Forbesiocrinus Agassizi Hall which undoubtedly belongs to the same group and in which these parts are better known we find the large basal not truncated and the anal series which rests directly upon it almost identical in construction with the interradial series except that it is slightly broader and that it consists of a few more plates.
We also find in that species a considerable number of axillary pieces which extend up to the top of the tertiary radials where the arms become free.
Referring to Taxocrinus or to species with but few interradials 1 Roemer 'considering Miller's genus Cyatlwcrinus not distinct from Poteriocrinus proposed in 1851 Foss.
Fauna d. Devon.
Gebirges a. Rliein p. 8 and again in 1855 Lethtea Geognostica Ausgabe III.
p. 238 that all species hitherto placed under Phillips' Taxocrinus be arranged under Cyatlwcrinus with C. tuberculatum Miller's second species as type and the generic formula amended accordingly.
The genus Cyathocrinus however with Miller's first specios C. planus as type has been accepted by almost every other paleontologist.
we find the first anal either directly upon the truncated basal as in Taxocrinus htberculatus or sometimes in species in which the first radial s join laterally the first anal is placed opposite the second and third or even' between the third radials as in Taxocrinus Thiemei but in either case with the exception of the Swedish specimens the anal plate has a truncated upper side and is succeeded by from two to six similar narrow quadrangular plates longitudinally arranged.
The plates diminish in size upwards and form the dorsal side of a short and slender lateral proboscis whose ventral parts as well as the wall supporting them have never been found preserved and evidently consisted of more fragile material.
Returning to the interradial series we find specimens with apparently none to three or more interradial plates with variation even in the individual and some with as many as nine interradials though in no instance extending up higher than to the top of the third primary radials above which the rays are almost always free in the fossil.
This however was not the case in the animal.
Schultze found in his T. juglandiformis within the open spaces between the rays as well as between the first divisions of the rays a large number of very minute uneven and twisted pieces which evidently took the place of the larger interradial plates in all cases where those did not exist.
Similar pieces were figured by Angelin in the Swedish species and they probably were present in all Taxocrini.
In some wellpreserved specimens of Taxocr.
Forbesiocr.
muUibrachiatus Lyon  Cass from Crawfordsville Indiana and in a Taxocrinus rainulosus Hall from Burlington Iowa we have had an opportunity to examine this structure.
Both species have a comparatively large number of interradials the former from three to nine arranged in from two to four series the other six to seven in three series.
These plates are quite prominent and differ but slightly in size.
The little plates in question or the plated integument as we should rather call it the plates seem to be imbricated is attached to the upper series of interradials and fills the rather large interradial space up to the top of the secondary radials inclosing the axillary spaces between the series of the latter up to the first armjoints and evidently covering the entire oral side of the body.
On looking at the anterior side of these specimens the construction seems almost identical with that of Forbesiocrinus except that the upper part of the interradial area is less substantial and compact  but their posterior aspect exhibits in Taxocrinus a small lateral proboscis while in Forbesiocrinus the space is filled with heavy plates in the latter an almost pentamerous symmetry in Taxocrinus except in the Swedish species a distinct bilateral one.
This we consider the best distinction between the two genera.
Compare Diagram PL 15 Fig.
2.
An examination of a very large series of wellpreserved specimens of the two genera has led us to this conclusion and to a modification to this extent of the opinion intimated by us heretofore Proceed.
Phila.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. 1878 p. 254 that there is no distinction between these genera.
We find that in practice we can separate them quite satisfactorily by the characters herein indicated and accordingly we propose the following revised generic diagnosis  A.
Typical form.
Body including arms rather short depressed  calyx cupor bowlshaped with bilateral symmetry.
Underbasals three sometimes very small unequal in size the two larger ones pentangular the smaller quadrangular.
Basals five four of them equal and with acute upper angles the fifth larger generally with truncated upper sides.
Primary radials three rarely four by five of nearly equal size wider than high quadrangular in outline except the upper one which is pentangular.
Secondary radials varying in number from three to six the former most prevalent slightly smaller than the primary radials and resembling them in general form.
Tertiary radials like the preceding only comparatively smaller and supporting the arms.
Arms dichotomizing once or twice composed of single short joints more or less rounded on the back  sutures frequently sinuate and sometimes provided with supplementary patelloid plates.
Interradials none to three or more as many as nine have been observed extending as high as the top of the second or third primary radials with very minute irregular plates above which fill the entire space to the top of the secondary radials the axillary spaces sometimes enclosing the first arm plates and probably covering the entire ventral side of the body.
Some species have from one to three regular axillary plates with occasionally a single plate in the axil between the tertiary radials.
Anal plates resting upon the truncated upper side of the larger basal or sometimes placed independently in line with second and third radials.
They consist of a series of from two to five narrow quadrangular plates longitudinally arranged the upper ones forming the dorsal side of a small lateral proboscis.
Column comparatively large rapidly tapering composed near the body of thin joints which gradually increase in thickness as they diminish in diameter.
Central perforation of medium size pentangular as far as observed.
Geological and Geographical Distribution.
Taxocrinus so far as known appears first in Europe where it is represented in the Upper Silurian by 2 species in the Devonian by 3 and in the Subcarboniferous by 2.
In the United States and Canada if we exclude Lecanocr.
elegans from the Trenton group it is first found in the Devonian from which 4 species are known and from the Subcarboniferous 13 are described.
We include in the typical form of the genus the following species  1856.
Taxocrinus affinis Miiller.
Neue Echinod.
d. Eifel p. 244 pi.
1 figs 1 2  also Schultze 1866 Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalk. p. 34 pi.
4 fig.
2.
Devonian.
Eifel Germ.
1843.
Taxocr.
brevidactylus Aust.
Cladocrinus brevidactylus.
Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
ii  p. 198 also Rec and Foss.
Crin. p. 89 pi.
11 fig.
4.
Subcarbon Ireland.
 1863.
Taxocr.
communis Hall.
Forbesiocr.
communis.
17th Regts.
Report.
N. Y.
State Cab. p. 55  also 1877 Paleont.
Rep. Ohio.
Vol.
ii.
p. 169 pi.
12. figs.
35.
Waverly group.
Richfield 0.
1836.
Taxocr.
Egertoni Phillips Poteriocr.
Egertoni.
Geol.
Yorksh. ii.
pi.
3 fig.
39.
Subcarbon.
Yorkshire Eng.
1858.
Taxocrinus Giddingei Hall.
Forbesiocrinus Giddingei.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pt.
ii.
p. 633 pi.
17 figs.
2 4.
Keokuk liinest.
Illinois Iowa.
1865.
Taxocr.
gracilis Meek and Worthen.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 142  also Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
iii.
p. 421 pi.
13 fig.
3.
Hamilton gr.
Jackson Co. 111.
not Taxocr.
gracilis Schultze  Rhopalocrinus gracilis Wachm.
and Spr.
1867.
Taxocr.
incurvus Trautschold.
Forbesiocr.
incurvus.
Crin.
des jiingeren Bergk.
Moskau p. 31  also Kalkbr.
von Mjatschkowa p. 126 pi.
14 fig.
11 and pi.
15 fig.
3.
Subcarb. near Moscow Russ.
1858.
Taxocr.
interscapularis Hall.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pt.
ii. p. 482 pi.
1 fig.
3.
Hamilton gr.
New Buffalo Iowa.
1867.
Taxocrinus juglandiformis Schultze.
Echinod.
Eifl.
Kalkes p. 35 pi.
4 fig.
4.
Devonian.
Eifel Germ.
1861.
Taxocr.
juvenis Hall.
Forbesocr.
juvenis Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
vii.
No.
2 p. .319.
Lower Burl limest. Burlington.
1863.
Taxocr.
Kelloggi Hall.
Forbesciocr.
Kelloggi 17th Regts.
Rep N. Y.
State Cab. p. 50  also Geol.
Rep. Ohio Paleont vol.
ii.
p. 171 pi.
12 fig.
1.
Waverly gr. Subcarb.
Richfield Ohio.
1862.
Taxocr.
lobatus Hall.
Forbesiocr.
lobatus i5th Regts.
Rep. N. Y.
State Cab. p. 124.
Hamilton gr.
Ontario Co. N. Y.
1863.
Taxocr.
lobatus var.
tardus Hall.
Forbesiocr.
lobatus var.
tardus 17th Regt's.
Rep. N. Y.
State Cab. p. 56 also Geol.
Rep. Ohio Paleont vol.
ii.
p. 171 pi.
12 fig.
1.
Waverly gr.
Richfield Ohio.
1841.
Taxocr.
macrodactylus Phillips.
Cyathor.
macrodactylus.
Paleoz.
Foss.
Corniv. p. 29 pi.
15 fig.
41.
Subcarbon.
England.
1858.
Taxocrinus Meeki Hall.
Forbesiocr.
Meeki Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pt.
ii. p. 631 pi.
17 fig.
3.
Meek and Worthen 1866 Ouychocrinus Meeki Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
ii.
p. 243.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk Iowa.
1858.
Taxocr.
multibrachiatus Lyon and CassForbesiocr.
multibracbiatus Amer.
Journ.
Sci  vol.
xxiii.
Labelled in most American collections Forbesiocr.
Meeki Hall.
Keokuk limest.
Crawfordsville Ind. and in Kentucky.
1862.
Taxocr.
nuntius Hall.
Forbesiocr.
nuntius 15th Regt's Rep. N. Y.
State Cab. p. 124.
Hamilton gr.
Erie Co. N. Y.
1855.
Taxocr.
Orbignii McCoy.
Synops.
Foss.
Brit.
Pal.
Rocks p. 53 pi.
1 D. fig 1.
Upper Silur.
Westmoreland Eng.
1860.
Taxocr.
ramulosus Hall.
Forbesiocr ramulosus.
Supplement Iowa Geol.
Rep. p. 67 not Forbesiocr.
ramulosus Lyon and Cass.
 Onychocrinus ramulosus.
Upper Burlington limest.
Burlington.
Synon.
forbesiocr.
sumbramulosus Shumard 1866 1851.
Taxocr.
Rhenanus F Roemer.
Cyatbocr.
Rhenanus Foss.
Fauna d. Rhein.
Gebirg.
 p. 7 pi.
2 figs.
2 ad. Devonian.
Germany.
1860.
Taxocr.
semiovatus Meek and Worthen.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. p. 389  Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
ii.
p. 272 pi.
20 figs.
4 ab.
St. Louis limest.
Hardin Co. Ill 1858.
Taxocr.
Shumardianus Hall.
Forbesiocr.
Shumardianus Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pt.
ii. p. 671 pi.
17 fig.
1.
St. Louis limest.
St. Louis Mo.
1861.
Taxocr.
Thiemei Hall.
Forbesiocr.
Tbiomei Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
vii.
No.
2 p. 317.
Burlington limest.
Burlington Iowa.
Synom.
Forbesiocrinus spinifer Hall 1861.
Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
vii.
No.
2 p. 318 1821.
Taxocr.
tuberculatus Miller.
Cyathocr.
tuberculatus Nat.
History of Crinoidea p. 88  also Goldfuss 1S26 Petref.
Germanise pi.
63. figs.
6 A B. Cladocrinus tuberculatus Austin Journ.
Zool. xi.
p. 197.
Upper Silur.
Dudley Eng.
1858.
Taxocrinus Wbitfieldi Hall.
Forbesiocr.
Wbitfieldi.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pi.
2 p. 632.
Meek  Worthen 1866 Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol ii.
p. 243.
Keokuk limest.
Warsaw 111.
B. Subgenus GNORIMOCRINUS Wachsm.
 Spr.
yvcepifx.i noble  Kptvo a lily.
In form and general habitus closely resembling Taxocrinus.
Arms comparatively longer figure irregular lacking the bilateral symmetry of that genus.
The basal subradial on the posterior side is exceedingly large reaching almost up to the top of the adjoining first radials.
The first anal plate instead of resting upon the truncated upper side of that basal leans against the oblique right side and the adjoining first radial.
A second series of anals generally composed of two plates rests above the basal and first anal plate.
All succeeding pieces are small frequently but not always quadrangular and form as in Taxocrinus a short and narrowlateral proboscis which however is here pushed over toward the right side of the body thereby destroying the symmetry which is characteristic of that genus.
Arms placed apart outer face rounded bifurcating unequally by throwing off branches toward the inner side of the ray the outer side forming almost a straight line.
Column composed of long and short and wide and narrow joints which alternate from the top not exclusively short joints at the top as in most Taxocrini.
We place here the following species 1878.
Gnorimocrinus Austini Angelin.
Taxocr.
Austini.
Iconogr.
Crin. p. 9 pi.
19 figs.
11 and 11a.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Sweden.
1878.
Gnorimocr.
distensus Angelin.
1 Taxocr.
distensus.
Iconogr.
Crinoid  p. 9 pi.
26 figs.
7 7 a.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1866.
Gnorimocr.
excavatus Shultze.
Zeacr.
excavatus.
Echinod.
d. Efl.
Kalkes p. 39 pi.
7 fig.
2.
Devonian.
Eifel Germ.
This species differs from the rest in having an excavated base.
1876.
Gnorimocr.
expansus Angelin.
Taxocr.
expansus.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
20 figs.
15 16.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Gnorimocr.
interbrachiatus Angel.
Taxocrinus interbrachiatus.
Jconog.
Crinoid. p. S pi.
29 figs.
9 10.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1879.
Gnorimocr.
Loveni Wachsm.
 Spr Cyathocr.
interbracbiatus Angel.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 23 figs.
2 2 a.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
This species differs from Cyalhacrinus both in the arrangement of the anal plates and in the presence of interradials.
Gnorimocr.
interbrachiatus being preoccupied we have named it in honor of Prof. Loven of Stockholm.
1 In this species as also Gnorimocr.
punctatus the irregular arrangement of the anal area is not sufficiently shown iu the figures and both may possibly belong to Taxocrinus.
1878.
Gnorimocrinus oblongatus Angelin.
Taxocr.
oblongatus.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 8 pi.
20 fig.
17.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Gnorimocrinus ovalis Angelin.
Taxocr.
ovalis.
Iconog.
Crinoid p. 8 pi.
20 figs.
13 14 Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Gnorimocr.
punctatus Angelin.
Taxocr.
punctatus.
Icongr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
23 figs.
4 5 fig.
27
.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Gnorimocr.
rigens Angelin.
Taxocr.
rigens.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
11. figs.
7 8.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Gnorimocr.
Salteri Angl.
Taxocr.
Salteri.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
23 figs 1 la.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Gnorimocr.
tubuliferus Angl.
Taxocri.
tubuliferus.
Inconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
20 figs.
11 12.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
8.
FORBESIOCRINUS De Koninck  Lehon.
Diagr.
PI.
15 Fig.
1.
1853.
Foibesiocr. De Kou.
 Leli.
Reckerches 8.
1.
Crin.
Belg. p. 18.
1858.
Forbesioer. Hall.
Geol Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pi.
2 p. 628.
1866.
Taxocrinus Meek  Worth.
Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
ii.
p. 269.
1878.
Forbesiocrinus Angl.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9.
A.
Typical form.
Comparatively larger than any other genus of the Ichthyocrinidse.
Bod  including arms broad short almost equilaterally pentamerous.
Calyx very large plates heavy and nodose radial portions prominent.
Underbasals three small hidden by the column two of them of equal size the third smaller.
Basals five four about equal the one at the posterior side larger rarely truncated.
Primary radials three to four by five generally four but varying in number in the individual  large almost equal in size and form.
Secondary radials two three four or more to the series about half as large as the primary radials and of the same general form.
Tertiary radials smaller than those of the preceding order and comparatively shorter the rays becoming free at the second third or fourth plate.
Arms long dichotomizing infolding at the tips so that their full length is seldom observed.
They are composed of single short plates slightly rounded at the back with a deep ventral furrow.
Arm joints in corresponding subdivisions of the same size those in each succeeding order smaller by about onehalf.
The sutures of the radial and arm plates strongly sinuate and partly occupied by additional patelloid plates.
Interradial area extending to the top of the tertiary radials and composed of a large number of plates from ten to twenty or more which decrease in size gradually upward the lower one being about half the size of the primary radials.
Axillary plates from ten to twenty and more with occasionally one to three within the axil of the tertiary radials.
Anal area without lateral proboscis or visible aperture slightly wider than the interradial areas and similarly arranged with generally two plates in the first series instead of one.
Dome unknown but evidently to some extent flexile.
Column large tapering downward with very thin joints next the body  central perforation of medium size pentagonal.
The most important distinction between Forbesiocrinus and Taxoorinus is to be found in the construction of the anal and interradial areas.
Unfortunately the type specimen of the former genus is in these particular parts very imperfect.
We therefore propose until better specimens of Forbesiocrinus nobilis De Kon.
 Leh.
are discovered to make Forbesiocrinus Agassizi Hall the type of the genus.
This large and beautiful species from the Burlington limestone evidently belongs to the same group and has been found in excellent preservation.
Geographical and Geological Distribution.
Forbesiocrinus is not distinguished for a great variety of form nor for abundance of individuals.
In Europe there has been found only one species from the Mountain limestone of England In the United States it is represented by four species all from the Subcarboniferous.
We recognize the following species as belonging to this genus  1858.
Forbesiocr.
Agassizi Hall.
Proposed type.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pt.
2 p631 also Suppl.
Iowa Geol.
Rep. p. 65.
Upper Burlgt.
limest.
Burlington Iowa.
Syno7i.
F. Agassizi var.
giganteus Meek  Worth.
Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
iii.
p. 495 p.
18 fig.
3.
1859.
Forbesiocr.
Cestriensis Hall.
Suppl.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa p. 68.
Chester limest.
Pope Co. 111.
1853.
Forbosiocr.
nobilis De Kon.
 Leh.
original type.
Recherches s. 1.
Crin.
Belg.
p. 121 pi.
2 figs.
2 a b. Poteriocr.
nobilis Phill.
is probably a synonym.
Mountain limest.
Yorkshire Engl.
1858.
Forbesiocr.
Wortheni Hall.
Geol.
Rep. Iowa vol.
i. pt.
2 p. 632 pi.
17 fig.
5.
Keokuk limest.
Keokuk Iowa and Crawfordsville Ind.
B. Subgenus LITHOCRINUS Wachs.
 Spr.
mo a stone  fiw a lily.
Prof. Angelin in the Iconogr.
Crinoid.
Suec p. 9 has described several Gotland species under Forbesiocrinus which we propose to separate subgenerically.
They differ from all subcarboniferous species of this group in having larger underbasals fewer plates in the interradial and anal areas  in exhibiting a strong tendency to a bilateral figure instead of a pentahedral in having comparatively much larger and higher first and shorter second and third radials also in the exceedingly large first interradial and first anal plate.
Arms so far as observed free above the secondary radials but only toward the inner side of the ray the outer side forming almost a straight line.
No pinnulse observed.
Column round composed of alternately larger and smaller joints not tapering in diameter downward.
This division embraces the following species 1878.
Lithocrinus divaricatus Angelin.
Forbesiocr.
divaricatus.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
21 fig.
21 and pi.
28 fig.
3.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878 Lithocr.
Milleri Angelin.
Forbesiocr.
Milleri.
Iconogr.
Crinoid p. 9 pi.
21 fig.
16 and pi.
28 fig.
1.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1878.
Lithocrinus obesus Angelin.
Forbesiocr.
obesus.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
21 fig.
18 and pi.
28 fig.
2.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
1.878.
Litbocr.
robustus Angelin.
Forbesiocr.
robustus.
Iconogr.
Crinoid. p. 9 pi.
21 figs.
11 12.
Upper Silur.
Gotland Swed.
9.
ONYCHOCRINTJS Lyon  Casseday.
1859.
0nyc7iocriius L.  C. Am.
Journ.
Sci. vol.
xxix.
p. 77.
1801.
Onychocrinus Meek  Worth.
Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
ii.
p. 242.
18G1.
Forbesiocr inus Hall.
Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
vii.
p. 321.
Body extended in five free rays which are sometimes spread out horizontally arms resembling the talons of a fowl.
Calyx depressed saucer or low cupshaped.
Underbasals three of unequal size rarely seen beyond the column.
Basals five four with obtuse angles the fifth with a truncated or slightly excavated upper side.
Radials four to five rarely six to seven by five comparatively large almost of equal size.
At the third fourth or fifth plate the rays become free after which they divide once each division giving off the true arms.
Arms veiy short brandling once or twice disposed in clusters at the extremities and in some species along their sides also composed of single joints with waving sutures and deep ventral furrow.
In the anal area there is a series of from three to five very narrow quadrangular plates which rests upon the truncated or slightly excavated upper side of the basal and forms a small lateral proboscis as in Taxocrinus.
Interradials three to twenty perhaps more in some species the first one large resting between the first and second radials the succeeding ones smaller rapidly decreasing in size and thickness upward and having an inward curvature.
They are followed by very minute irregular polygonal plates which form the interradial portion of the vault.
The radial summit areas consist of two rows of somewhat larger plates alternately arranged which extend to the ventral covering of the free rays and probably throughout their full length.
In the median portion of the vault there are six rather thin but large apical dome plates.
The summit when the rays are extended is not higher than the top of the second radials general surface depressed.
Column heavy composed of very thin joints tapering rapidly downward central perforation above medium size pentagonal.
Onychocrinus is most nearly related to Taonocrinus with Avhich it is almost identical in the construction of the anal portions.
It differs however materially in the free rays the arm structure and its greater expansive power.
Lyon and Casseday took the free rays to be arms and the true arms to be pinnulae.
These authors did not extend the genus to forms like their Forbesiocr.
ramulosus which has only four radials instead of five as stated in their generic formula though that species has all the other characters of the genus.
Hall has never recognized Onychocrinus as a genus but placed 0. asteriaeformis  a typical form under Forbesiocrinus.
Meek and Worthen evidently considering the small lateral proboscis the principal distinction between Onychocrinus and Forbesiocrinus and not knowing that all Taxocrini have it placed all species of this group in which they observed this appendage under Onychocrinus.
Geographical and Geological Distribution Onychocrinus has been found only in the Subcarboniferous of Ireland and the United States  it embraces the following species  1861.
Onychocr.
asteriseformis Hall.
Forbesiocr.
asteriaeformis Descr.
New Crin.
Prelim.
Not. p. 9 also Bost.
Journ.
Nat.
Hist. vol.
vii No.
2 p. 320.
Meek and Worth Onychocrinus asteriaeformis Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
ii.
p. 243.
Upper Burlington limest.
Burlington Iowa.
1866.
Onychocr.
diversus Meek and Worth.
Proceed.
Acad Nat.
Sci Phila. p. 256  also Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
iii.
p. 492.
Upper Burlington limest.
Burlington Iowa.
 1859.
Onychocr.
exsculptus Lyon and Casseday Typical species.
Am.
Journ.
Sci. vol.
29 p. 78.
Keokuk limest.
Hardin Co. Ky. and Montgomery Co. Ind.
Synom.
Onychocr.
Forbesiocr.
Norwoodi Meek and Worth.
Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol.
ii.
p. 245 pi.
17 fig.
3.
1875.
Onychocrinus magnus Wortben.
Geol.
Rep. Illinois vol vi.
p. 520 pi.
31 fig.
5.
St. Louis limest.
Monroe Co. 111.
1861.
Onychocrinus Monroensis Meek and Worth.
Forbesiocr.
Monroensis.
Proceed.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci Phila. p. 130.
1866 Onychocr.
Monroensis 111.
Geol.
Rep. vol.
ii.
p. 244 pi.
17 fig.
7.
Keokuk limest.
Monroe Co. Illinois.
1846.
Onychocr.
polydactylus McCoy.
Taxocr.
polydactylus.
Synops.
Carb. Ireland p. 178 pi.
24 fig.
7.
Subcarbon.
Ireland.
1859.
Onychocr ramulosus Lyon and Cass.
Forbesiocr.
ramulosus L. and C not Hall Am.
Journ.
Sci. vol.
28 p. 235 Keokuk limest.
Montgomery Co. Ind.
