THE MIOCENE Mollusca OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
BY PROF. ANGELO HEILPRIN.
The known forms of miocene mollusca of the State of New Jersey numbered up to 1884 the year when I published my Contributions tothe Tertiary Geology and Paleontology of the United States some thirty species as follows  Ostrea Virginica 0.
Mauricensis.
.
Ostrea percrassa Pecten Humphreysii Plicatula densata Mytilus inflatus f Lithodomus subalveatus Carditamera aculeata Carditamera arata Orassatella melina Astarte Thomasii Astarte distans Mysia parilis Yoldia limatula Venus Ducatellii Venus plena Mercenaria cancellata Tellina Shilohensis Tellina per acuta TellinellaJcapilliJera Thraeia myceformis Anatina alta Corbula elevata Saxicava parilis Turhinella Woodi Fulgur scalar if oi'mis Natica catenoides f Turritella cequistriata Turritella Cumber landia Turritella secta Fissurella Griscomi.
Several excursions with my class to the marl diggings near Shiloh Cumberland Co. and the examination of material from an artesian wellboring in Atlantic City kindly placed in my hands by Mr. Lewis Woolman enable me to increase this list by about fifty species of which some four or five prove to be new forms.
The following species have been identified from the diggings near Shiloh  Ostrea percrassa Peden Simiphreysii var.
Woolmani Heilprin Pecten Madlsonius Plicatula densata Mytilus inflatus Mytiloconcha incurva Lithodomus sp.
f Perna maxillata Area centenaria Area Marylandica Pectuneulus lentiformis Nueula ohliqua Yoldia limatula Astarte distans Astarte compsonema Crassatella melina Carditamera arata Carditamera acideata Lucina cremdata Cardium laqueatum Chama congregata Venus athleta Venus mercenaria f Venus Mercenaria caneellata f Gabb.
Mactra lateralis Tellina sp.

Teredo sp 
Saxicava parilis f S. insita f Murex nov. sp.
Turbinella Woodi Fidgur sealariformis Cantharus Cumherlandianus Nassa trivittata Columbella communis Terehra curvilirata Triforis no v. sp.
Cancellaria sp.
 Marginella sp.

Pleurotoma nov. sp.
Turbo eboreus Carinorbis Delphinula globulus D. hjra f Conrad Natica hemicryjita Turritella Cumberlandia Turritella cequistriata Trochita centralis Crucibulum costahcm Crepidula fornicata Crepidiila plana f Fissurella Griscomi Discina Orbieula lugubris Of the species here indicated the greater number have been found in States other than New Jersey and leave no doubt that the deposits which they represent constitute a part of the regular Miocene series of the Atlantic border.
The general faunal facies is most nearly that of the Lower Atlantic Miocene  Marylaudian or Middle Atlantic Miocene Virginian with a decided leaning toward the former whose position it occupies geographically.
I have elsewhere Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1880 pp.
3132  Contrib.
Tert.
Geol.
and Paleont.
U. S. p. 9 given reasons for referring these Cumberland County deposits to the ' 'Marylaudian division of the Atlantic Miijcene a reference which appears justified apart from other considerations by the presence of such fossils as Ostrea percrassa Pecten Humphreys ii Perna maxillata Crassateila melina etc.
These species belong to the Lower Miocene Contrib.
Tert.
Geol.
and Paleont.
U. S. pp.
71 and 77 and characterize principally the basal series of deposits.
Indeed it is a little questionable if they do not actually connect with the Oligocene.
The newer Miocene deposits as determined by their fossil remains had not been recognized in the State prior to the present year although the existence of such deposits in their projDer position could not reasonably be doubted.
In my work above referred to 1884 I remark p. 9  It is very likely that both divisions of the Miocene indicated by me as occurring in Maryland and Virginia and by me designated as the 'Marylandian' and 'Virginian' or the lower and middle Atlantic Miocenes respectively will eventually be found to be equally Avellmarked off in New Jersey although up to the present time from the sparseness of the fossil remains that have been collected no such subdivision could be satisfactorily attempted.
But from what material we have at hand it may be safely asserted that the localities which have been so assiduously searched in the neighborhood of Shiloh and elsewhere in Salem and Cumberland Counties belong to the older or 'Marylandian' division.
The existence of the newer Miocene dejDosits has now been definitely determined through the material obtained by Mr. Woolman from the artesian boring at Atlantic City which has been placed in my hands for examination.
The species of fossils obtained here are the following  Discina luguhris Ostrea sp.

Anomia epwjpmm F Peeten Madisonius Pecten Humphreysii Peeten vicenarius f Perna maxillata Mytll'us incrassatus Myliloconclm incurva Area centenaria Area subrostrata Area idonea f Area lienosa f Nueula ohllqua Adarte comisonema Astarte obrida Astarte 2yei'plana f Astarte Thomasii Cardita granulata Carditamera arata Crassatella melina Cardiuni laqueatum f ' Lueina trisuleata f Lucliia erenulata Mysia sp.

Cytherea Sayana f Artemis acetabulum Venus sp.

Donax variabilis Mactra lateralis Mactra ponderosa f Tellina declivis Tellina suhreflexa Corhula idonea Corbula elevata Turhinella Woodi Fulgur sp 
Nassa trivittata Natica sp.

Turrit el la Cumber latidia Turritella mquistriata Turritella plebeia Barnacles Echiuoid fragments Dendrophyllia coral Lamna covipressa Odontaspis Myliobatis Crocodilian bone Many of the species occur only in fragments but the greater number admit of definite determination.
Unfortunately in most instances the depth at which they were obtained could not be ascertained and in so far therefore such species give but little positive evidence as to the horizons which they actually rejresent.
But the introduction of a very considerable number of forms as compared with the number of such forms occurring in the deposits near Shiloh which are more or less characteristic of the Virginian Middle Atlantic Miocene deposits and those of still newer date Carolinian leave no room for doubt that a distinct faunal horizon the corresjDondent in all probability of the Middle Miocene is penetrated by the bore.
Again that the older beds are also represented is proved by the occurrence of Perna maxillata Pecten Humphreysii Crassatella melina etc. but only in the case of the firstnamed species Perna maxillata could the absolute position depth of some 800 feet in the section be obtained.
The position here indicated accords approximately Avith the theoretical position deduced from a calculation of dip and strike using the Shiloh Perna beds as an equivalent.
At a height of some 350 feet above the Perna beds and consequently at an actual depth of about 450 feet occurs a stratum containing large numbers of Turritella plebeia a species which in Maryland incisively marks the newer Miocene deposits of the State i. e. the Virginian as distinguished from the older Marylandian.
Its presence in the position which it occupies in the Atlantic City bore section would of itself be almost sufficient to determine the existence of a second faunal horizon.
The following table enumerates as far as is known to me all the Molluscan species that have been thus far determined from the Miocene formation of the State  Discina luguhris Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 75.
Ostrea Virginica  0.
Mauricensis Gmel.
Ostrea percrassa CoxiY Mioc.
Foss. p. 50.
Pecten Humphreysii Conr.
Bull.
Nat.
Inst. p. 194.
Pecten Madisonius Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. IV.
p. 134.
Pecten vicenarius f Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 1 .
p. 306.
Anomia ephippiiim f L. Plicatula densata Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 1. p. 311.
Mytilus inflatus Tuomey and Holmes.
Plioc.
Foss. p. 33.
Mytilus incrassatus Conr.
A. J.
Science XLI. p. 247.
Mytiloeoncha incurva Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 52.
Lithodomus subalveatus Conr.
A. J.
Conch. II p. 78.
Perna inaxillata Lam.
Area centenaria Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. IV. p. 138.
Area Marykmdiea Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 54.
Area subrostrata Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 58.
Area idonea f Conr.
Foss.
Tert.
Form. p. 15.
Area lienosa f Say.
Amer.
Conch. pi.
36.
Peetuncuhis lentiformis Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 64.
Nucula obliqua Say.
A. J. Scieuce II p. 40.
Yoldia limatula Say.
Amer.
Conch. pi.
12.
Astarte eompsonema Conr.
A. J.
Conch. II p. 72.
Astarte obruta Conr.
Journ.
A. N. S. VII p. 15.
Astarte jierplana f Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 43.
Astarte Thomasii Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. VII p. 267.
Astarte distans Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 288.
Crassatella melina Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 22.
Cardita granulata Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. IV. p. 142.
Carditamera arata Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 11.
Carditamera aculeata Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 585.
Lucina cremdata Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 39.
Lucina trisulcata f Conr.
A. J.
Science XLI p. 346.
Mysia parilis Conr.
A. J.
Conch. II p. 71.
Mysia sp.

Chama congregata Conr.
A. J.
Science XXIII p. 341.
Cardiwn laqueatum Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 31.
Cytherea Sayana Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 13.
Venus Ducatellil Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 8.
Venus plena Conr.
A. J.
Conch. V p. 100.
Venus latilirata Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 1 p. 28.
Venus sp.

Mercenaria cancellata Gabb.
Journ.
A. N. S. IV p. 376.
Artemis acetahidmn Conr.
Foss.
Tert.
Form p. 20.
Mactra lateralis Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. II p. 309.
Mactra ponderosa f Conr.
Journ.
A. N. S. VI p. 228.
Donax variabilis Tuomey and Holmes.
Plioc.
Foss.
p. 95.
Tellina Shilohensis Tellina declivis Say.
Journ.
A. IST.
S. VII p. 131.
Tellina per acuta Conr.
A. J.
Conch. II p. 71.
Tellinella capillifera onr.
A. J.
Conch. II p. 71.
Amphidesma subreflexa Conr.
Journ.
A. N. S. VII p. 133.
Thracia myceformis Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 585 as Saxicava.
Anatina alia Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 585.
Corbida elevata Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 7.
Corbida idonea Conr.
A. J.
Sci. XXIII p. 341.
Saxicava parilis Conr.
A. J.
Conch. II p. 70.
Saxicava incita f Teredo sp.

Conr.
A. J.
Conch. v p. 101.
Murex nov. sj.
Turbinella Woodi Gabb.
Journ.
A. N. S. 2d ser.
IV p. 375.
Cantharus Cumber landianus Gabb.
Journ.
A. N. S. 2d ser. IV p. 375.
Fulgur scalarispira Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 584.
Nassa trivittata Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. II j.
231.
Columbella communis Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 287.
Terebra curvilirata Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 1 p. 327.
Tr if oris nov. sp.
404 pSoceedings of the academy of 1887.
Cancellaria sp.
Marginella sp.

Pleurotoma nov. sp.
Natica hemicrypta Gabb.
Jouru.
A. N. S. 2d ser.
 IV p. 375.
Nat'ica cafenoidesf Wood.
Crag.
Moll. p. 141.
Turbo eboreus Wagner.
Joiirn.
A. N. S VIII p. 52 Carinorbis Delphinula globulus H. C. Lea.
Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc D. lyraf Conrad.
IX p. 262Turritella cequistriata Conr.
Proc.
A. N.
S. 14 p. 584.
Turritella Cumberlandia Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. 14 p. 584.
Turritella secta Conr.
Proc.
A. N. S. VII p. 268.
Turritella plebeia Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. IV p. 125.
Trochita centralis Conr.
A. J.
Science XLI p. 348.
Crucibulum costatum Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. IV p. 132.
Crepidula fornicata Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. II p. 225.
Crepidula plana f Say.
Journ.
A. N. S. II p. 226.
Fissurella Griscomi Conr.
Mioc.
Foss. p. 78.
The references to descriptions do not necessarily indicate first description.
Notes on New and Old Species.
Murex Shilohensis.
nov. sp.
Whorls about seven angular flattened on the shoulder which is crossed diagonally by the variceal ridges  varices about eight on the bodywhorl subequal spinosely elevated on the shoulder angulation and crossed by four subequal revolving ridges which appear double on the crests of the varices  only two such ridges on the whorls above the bodywhorl.
Aperture somewhat more than half the length of shell keyhole shaped with the canal broadly deflected.
Length nearly 75 inch.
A single specimen from Ayres' pits near Shiloh in the possession of Miss Emma Walter of Philadeljhia.
Pleurotoma pseudeburnea.
nov. sp.
Spire elevated of about ten volutions apex papillate whorls convex porcellanous strongly ribbed somewhat impressed on the shoulder  ribs numerous deflected those of the several whorls alternating in position.
No revolving lines.
Aperture about onethird the length of shell  canal slightly deflected  columellar lip well defined.
Length slightly exceeding a halfinch.
From Ayres' pits near Sliiloh.
Fairly abundant.
From the collection of Miss Mary S. Holmes of Philadelphia.
Triforis terebrata.
nov. sp.
Spire gradually tapering nearly parallelsided whorls
flat ornamented on the bodywhorl with two prominently beaded lines and two alternating lines of smaller beads  on the whorls above the bodywhorl the lowest line is indistinct or entirely covered over transverse lines connect the beads of the different series  columella smooth arcuate.
Length 
A fragment only showing three whorls from Ayres' pits near Shiloh  in the possession of Miss Ella Lyndall of Philadelphia.
The species appears to be most closely related to Cerithium  Triforis'moniliferwn of H. C. Lea.
Pecten Humphreysii var.
Woolmani.
Under this name I propose to designate a Pecten which appears to be only a variety or subspecies of the Maryland P. Humphreysii difiering from the normal type of that species in the greater elevation of the ears and the more distinct quadrangulation of the ribs of the convex valve.
The ribs are also more prominently lined.
All the New Jersey specimens that I have seen of what appears to be Pecten Humphreysii agree in these characters.
Illustrations of these species will be given in a future paper.
Noie.
Since the preparation of the above Mr. Woolman has obtained from the Atlantic City boring Nassa obsoleta the impression of a fishscale and several Foraminifera Cristellaria Robulina etc.
The following annual reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee  REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
The operations of the various departments of the Academy are so fully set forth in the reports of the several officers and Sections that little remains for the Recording Secretary to note of the history of an uneventful but prosperous year except the statistics of publication and exchange.
One hundred and three pages of the Proceedings for 1886 and three hundred and twentyeight pages of the volume for 1887 have been issued the former being illustrated by two and the latter by fifteen plates.
The second part of the ninth volume of the quarto Journal consisting so far of papers by Profs.
Wm.
B. Scott and Henry F. Osborn is in process of preparation but in consequence of an unavoidable change of printers the work progresses with disdiscouraging slowness.
Three titles have been added to our exchange list increasing the number of copies of the Proceedings now distributed to foreign correspondents to 382.
In addition sixty one copies are mailed to domestic exchanges and one hundred and fourteen to subscribers making the whole number of each issue sent out 557.
Twentyfive papers have been presented for publication as follows Henry F. Osborn 3 Geo.
A. Koeuig 2 C. A.
White 2 David Starr Jordan 2 C. Rominger 2 Joseph Leidy 1 Otto Meyer 1 Thomas C. Porter 1 Harrison Allen 1 Andrew Garrett 1 Adele M. Fielde 1 Edw.
Potts 1 Henry C. Chapman 1 Carl F. Eigenmann 1 John A. Ryder 1 Angelo Heilprin 1 Thomas Meehan 1 Henry C. McCook 1 Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer 1.
One of these has been accepted for publication in the Journal and the others will form part of the current volume of the Proceedings.
Communications have been made at the meetings by Messrs Allen Heilprin Ryder Holman Foote Koenig Meehan Rusby McCook Leidy Brinton Sharp Wilson Binder Kelly Trotter Dolley Martindale Willcox Chapman Cresson Parker Woolman Cheston Morris and JefFeris.
When reported by their authors these together with occasional notes on the natural history of Swatow China by Miss Fielde have been published as minor articles in the Proceedings.
The practice of reporting the meetings in a popular form for the newspapers has been continued as far as possible.
The average attendance at the meetings has been 21.
Seventeen members and sixteen correspondents have been elected.
The deaths of ten members and three correspondents have been recorded in the published Proceedings.
Resignations of membership from John B. Deaver M. D. W. L Springs and W. H. Harned were accepted on the usual conditions.
The Academy was represented at the banquet in celebration of the Centenary of the Adoption of the Federal Constitution by a committee consisting of Messrs Thomas Meehan Jacob Binder and Theo.
D. Rand.
Nine of the portraits in oil belonging to the Academy have been loaned to the Academy of Fine Arts as a portion of the interesting collection of historical portraits now being exhibited to the public.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
EDw J. Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
The duties of the Corresponding Secretary have shown but little variation during the past year the letters received being almost entirely those of transmission of publications or acknowledgement of the reception of those sent by us.
The plan adopted some time ago of sending our Proceedings by mail in parts as completed has caused the number of letters of acknowledgement to exceed those of transmittal.
Publications acknowledged by circular letter .
64 Those acknowledged by Postal Card .
. '
.
32 The latter about equally divided between native and foreign societies.
Letters of transmittal ...... 28 These are for the most part from societies and others who send through the International Exchange.
Among the letters were eight asking the Academy to supply deficiencies.
While it has been possible to reply favorably to the demand in nearly every case some could not be so treated.
Unfortunately 408 1887. some of our earlier volumes are either entirely or partly out of print but it is hoped the finances of the Academy may permit republication in the near future.
During the year sixteen Correspondents have been elected and notification promptly sent.
Responses have been received from fifteen in several cases accompanied by gifts to the library or museum.
The additions to the museum during the year have been of great value as will be learned from the Curators' report.
To the Curatorincharge I must express my thanks for acknowledging in my behalf the donations as received.
Among the miscellaneous correspondence we have received notification of the death of eminent students many of whom were numbered among our membership.
A number of letters of slight interest have been referred to the members of the Bureau of Scientific Information or answered directly.
Respectfully submitted George H. Horn M. D. Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The additions made to the library during the year ending November 30 1887 amount to 3380.
They consist of 447 volumes 2908 pamphlets part of periodicals and of works issued in numbers and 25 maps sheets etc.
A complete catalogue of these additions is appended.
They have been received from the following sources  Societies 1283 Editors 836 I. V. Williamson Fund .
 .
573 Authors 231 Brazilian Government .... 83 Mr. John H. Redfield .... 37 Wilson Fund 35 U. S. Department of the Interior 27 Executors of Dr. George Martin 19 In Exchange 14 U. S. Department of State .
.
12 By Subscription 10 H. B. M. Government .... 10 Smithsonian Institution Geological Survey of Russia Hon.
Chas.
M. Betts .
.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger Angelo Heilprin .
.
.
U. S. War Department Geological Survey of Portugal Mexican Government .
Publishers Pennnsylvania State Board Health R. Schomburgk .
.
.
Yale College of 3 3 8 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1887.
409 Geological Survey of Canada .
9 Thomas Meehan 8 Geological Survey of Kentucky 8 Geological Survey of New Jersey 7 Geological Survey of India .
.
7 U. S. Treasury Department .
.
7 Norwegian Government ... 7 United States Department of Agriculture 6 Geolgical Survey of New Zealand 4 British Museum .
.
... 4 U. S. Fish Commission ... 4 Minister of Public Works France 4 Fish and Game Commissioners Mass G. W. Carpenter  Co. .
.
.
B. H. Warren Messrs Tiffany  Co Department ot Mines Nova Scotia W. E. D. Scott Chas.
E. Smith E. V. d'Invilliers Isaac Burk Robert Nebinger Mrs. Joseph E. Mitchell .
.
.
They were distributed to the several departments of the library as folloAvs Journals 2506 Botany 254 Geology 189 General Natural History .
.
.
101 Conchology 55 Entomology 46 Anatomy and Physiology ... 31 Voyages  Travels 24 Anthropology ...... 19 Bibliography 15 Encyclopedias 14 Physical Science 13 Mineralogy 13 Agriculture Medicine Mammalogy Helminthology Public Documents .
.
.
.
Ichthyology Chemistry Ornithology Geography Herpetology Microscopy Miscellaneous unclassified 9 8 8 7 7 6 6 4 4 1 1 23 The Academy is to be congratulated upon at last securing an almost complete set of De Martins' Flora Brasiliensis from the government of Brasil.
Our thanks are due Prof. Orville A Derby for efficiently endorsing our repeated applications to the Ministry of Agriculture Commerce and Public Works for this most important addition to the botanical library.
From the parts received we have been enabled to bind eighteen volumes and efforts are being made to obtain the numbers required to complete the set to date.
Among the other distinctively important Avorks added during the year mention may be made of a complete set of Pfliiger's Archiv in forty volumes and a beautiful colored copy of Sibthorpe's Flora Graeca ten volumes folio.
The latter has been obtained partly through the I. V. Williamson Fund and partly by subscriptions from Messrs Thomas Meehan Chas Schaffer John H. Redfield W. S. W. Ruschenberger Isaac C. Martindale Aubrey H. Smith Geo.
H. Horn Wm.
C. Henszey Wm.
W. Jefferis Jacob Binder and Geo.
A. Binder.
27 Special acknowledgments are also due to Mr. John H. Redfield for thirtyseven volumes of botanical works not before possessed by the Academy and treating for the most part of ferns  to the executors of Dr. Geo.
Martin for nine volumes on cryptogamic botany and to Her Britannic Majesty's Government for the continuation of the invaluable reports of the Challenger Expedition thirtytwo volumes of which have been received.
The accompanying list of accessions indicates our continued indebtedness to the Isaiah V. Williamson Fund which after our exchanges continues to be the most important source of the library's growth.
I am happy to be able to report that the crowded condition of the cases devoted to the journals has been in a measure relieved by the erection of about one thousand feet of additional shelving.
Advantage has been taken of the increased accommodation to again revise the catalogue of periodicals.
The Avork progresses very slowly in consequence of the absence of assistance and the limited time that can be given to other than current work.
It is intended however as the revision progresses to again apply to corresponding societies for such deficiencies as may still exist repeated applications being sometimes necessary before a satisfactory return can be obtained.
Although the applications sent out during the last two or three years have been productive of encouraging results many societies have not been heard from either negatively or affirmatively and these will receive special attention.
I have been again indebted to friends of the Academy for the means of securing the services of Signore E. Fronani during the  summer months.
His entire time has been devoted to the work of transcribing my original card entries and the new catalogue has progressed so far as to be in fit condition for use.
The case for its reception was designed and its construction supervised by Mr. Jacob Binder to whom the Academy is also indebted for the satisfactory completion of the additional library cases.
The few cards remaining to be copied next year it is hoped have been placed temporarily with the others and as now arranged the catalogue supercedes entirely the handlists of the special departments of the library formerly in use one defect of which among many was that the alphabetical arrangement could not be maintained for any length of time.
In as much as it is easier to glance down a printed or written list than to turn over a number of cards it may be that there are certain inconveniences in the use of a card catalogue by specialists who for the most part desire to consult only the books belonging to their own department but the accuracy of the alphabetical arrangement and the certainty of finding the entry in its proper place with an indication of the position of the book in the library more than counterbalance the disadvantages.
Two hundred and thirtyfour volumes have been bound during the year.
They were mostly special works received in numbers and some I. V. Williamson journals.
Hundreds of volumes of periodicals yet remain to be bound.
An effort is being made to lessen the inconvenience of consulting these by glueing the numbers of each volume firmly together but this cannot be considered more than a temporary expedient and it is earnestly hoped that means may be soon provided for their permanent arrangement.
An interesting portrait in oil of Thomas Say formerly one of the series belonging to Peale's Museum has been received from Mrs. Joseph E. Mitchell.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
Edw.
J. Nolan.
Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Curators present the following statement of the CuratorinCharge as their report for the year 1887  The CuratorinCharge respectfully reports that the collections of the Academy are generally speaking in good condition and that there has been but insignificant loss to the Museum through either carelessness or unintentional neglect.
The various departments of the institution have been more or less dependent for their development upon the volunteer labors of specialists in their several sections and for the valuable assistance thus rendered the CuratorinCharge desires to express his grateful acknowledgements.
The thanks of the Academy are especially due to Mr. George W. Tryon Jr. Conservator of the Conchological Section to Mr. J. H. Redfield Conservator of the Herbarium and to Mr. Jacob Binder Conservator of the collection of minerals bequeathed to the Academy by the late Mr. Wm.
S. Vaux who have severally devoted much time and labor to the interests of the collections under their charge.
To the Entomological Section likewise acknowledgement is due for work done in connection with the caring for the collection of insects.
In the departments other than those here specified the work has been done under the immediate superintendence of the CuratorinCharge and his assistant Mr. J. E. Ives whose services were secured in the early part of the year.
As in previous years the entire collection of alcoholics has been carefully overhauled and specimens no longer serviceable of which there were but few in number removed from the bottles.
Much the greater part of the Curator's attention has been given to the collections of the main floor which have been largely rearranged to the end of rendering them more accessible and of securing room for further collections.
The large centre cases devoted to osteology have been turned lengthwise with the building and a number removed to other parts of the hall thereby necessitating an almost complete rearrangement of the collections contained therein.
This has been accomplished with a nearer approach to system than has been possible heretofore.
The bird and reptile skeletons have been removed to their respective departments on the first and second galleries while the mammalian skeletons retain their former positions along the south wall.
The greater number of these last have been carefully compared and redetermined and the errors of previous determinations corrected and eliminated  it is believed that with a few exceptions concerning which there is no record all the forms are now authoritatively determined and arranged in accordance with the most approved system of classification.
The nomenclature of Prof.
Flower Director of the British Museum has been largely followed.
One of the most important pieces of work of the year has been the preparation of a complete catalogue of mammalian osteology for which the Academy is principally indebted to Mr. Ives the assistant to the CuratorinCharge.
The number of specimens therein recorded is 925 divided as follows among the several orders Primates 109 Carnivoia 297 Ungulata and Proboscidea .
.
205 Cheiroptera 2 Cetacea .
62 Sirenia ........ 9 Rodentia 191 Edentata 13 Insectivora 17 Didelphya .
19 Monotremata 1 It will thus be seen that while some of the orders are largely represented others are very deficient and require much in the way of addition before they can be considered to be in any way sufficient.
Th6 Academy has received much assistance toward filling gaps from the Zoological Society of this city which has on several occasions donated some of the rarer animals which through death were no longer serviceable in the Zoological Gardens.
Among these may be enumerated a hippopotamus kangaroo wombat echidna etc.
It is hoped that with more intimate relations between the two institutions further advantages of this kind may be acquired.
It is a singular fact in connection with the development of an institution like the Academy that while its collections frequently embrace numbers of sjDecimens that are considered rare and not ordinarily obtainable other specimens much more common are largely or wholly wanting.
Thus in the case of our own institution while there is what might be termed a superabundance of the skulls of tigers bears and wolves there is not a single complete skeleton of the ordinary cow or ox sheep or goat  and it was only during the course of the present year that the Academy obtained through purchase 100 the skeleton of the American bison.
The disarticulated pai'ts of a second individual were received at about the sametime from the Smithsonian Institution at Washington through the good offices of the late Prof Spencer F. Baird.
It is especially desirable that the commoner animals should have a representation in the museum and it is earnestly to be wished that the museum fund may be so far increased as to permit of purchases in this direction.
In the department of Ornithology the Academy has profited through the services of a special taxidermist Mr.
I. S. ReiflT who has with a fair amount of care examined the greater number of the 30000 birds in the collection applying arsenical poisoning and insectpowder where necessary and readjusting the plumage of partially mutilated specimens.
The total number of birds marked out as no longer serviceable for museum purposes is some 12 or 13 a very insignificant number when the extent of the collection is taken into account and when it is remembered that this rejiresents a destruction not only for a single year but for several years past.
The immunity from insect depredations is not a little remarkable seeing how imperfect the ornithological cases appear to be in comparison with those which more modern methods have succeeded in producing.
An application of pure naphthaline in cores will be attempted this year as a further preventive of destruction.
The following list indicates the species of birds which have been removed from the cases as above stated  Treron aromatiea Java Treron aromatica Ambunensis Java Chasmarhynchus variegatus Brazil Pitta cceriUia Java Casstcws licamorrhous S.
Amer.
 Alcojnis pieoides East Indies Tardus sp.

ISTew Jersey Thryothrus Imcinia Icterus Girardii Guatemala undet.
East Indies and Spermestes Poensis Fernando Po.
The Ornithological department has recevied valuable and extensive accessions during the year the more important being a collection of skins from the collection of Dr. H. B.
Butcher presented in the name of J. Dickinson Sergeant and a like collection presented by Dr. W. L. Abbott of this city.
The latter consisting principally of birds of the United States the West India Islands and South and Central America is estimated to number between two and three thousand skins mostly in a very good state of preservation.
These for want of spaceroom have not yet been definitely located and it is imperative that some immediate provision be made for their safekeeping.
To the departments of Geology Mineralogy and ' Paleontology there have been a number of additions in the main of no very great importance except in so far as pertains to the specimens purchased by the Wm.
S. Vaux fund.
These are referred to in the report of the special conservator herewith appended.
The extensive collections of Florida fossils and rocks which were obtained in the early part of last year and which for want of case room had been during study temporarily deposited in the room properly belonging to Archaeology and Ethnology are now in a condition to be jilaced in their proper position a number 10 of new cases having recently been added to the main floor.
By their addition the collection of tertiary invertebrate fossils of the Academy becomes by far the most important of any in the country and falls probably but little below that of any in the world.
Valuable accessions to the 2aleontological collections are an almost complete skull leg bones ribs etc. of a Mastodon found near Pemberton N. J. which were generously donated to the institution by J. Coleman Saltar of Pemberton and Emlen INIcConnell of Philadelphia two young students of geology who first called attention to the interesting find.
This is the most perfect specimen of the animal that has been found in the State during a period of some forty years.
There have been but few additions to the department of Archaeology and attention is called to the report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology who deplores that for want of room he should be compelled to decline donations to this section of his department.
The condition of overcrowding is unfortunately only too true for almost airithe other dejDartments and the necessity for an extension to the jDresent building becomes more pressing every day.
Unless assistance is rendered in this direction the collections of the Academy which are of their kind probably still the most extensive and important in the country must cease to grow.
An appeal to the Legislature of the State made in the early part of the year for aid in constructing an annex in which to exhibit the natural history resources of the State of Pennsylvania and the extensive collection of the State Geological Survey deposited in the cellar of the Academy was favorably reported upon in Committee but failed of its purpose by reason of a design to construct a Survey Museum in the State Capital.
The encouragement and endorsement which the Academy's petition met from many of the most influential citizens of Pennsylvania Congressional representatives merchants manufacturers and those most interested in the development of the natural history resources of the State lead to the hope that at no very distaut day that assistance may be obtained which has so long been needed.
In the meantime it is earnestly to be hoped that lie patriotic instincts of the citizens of Philadelphia will generously assert themselves and not allow that institution to go in want which has cast so much lustre not only upon the science of the city but upon the science of the whole country.
In its educational workings the Academy is doing much good.
The museum has been thrown open free to the classes of all institutions of learning and the collections are largely made use of by schools both in and out of the city.
The attendance at the class lectures as well as participation in the fieldexcursions in connection with these is also considerable and shows that the facilities for study and work afforded by the Academy are largely appreciated.
The course of popular evening lectures which on the recommendation of the professors and with the approval of the Council was inaugurated in the spring of last year has proved successful beyond expectation and has led to the preparation of a more extended course now in process of execution.
Unfortunately the hall of the Academy is not well suited to the delivery of lectures to large audiences and hence no absolute satisfaction can be given to a large proportion of the listeners.
But the character of the attendance speaks well for the interest in the work.
In connection with the work of facilitating study in the several departments of natural history the CuratorinCharge desires to call attention to a synoptic collection of minerals rocks and fossils which has been arranged on the main floor as a practical key or guide to geological inquiry and to the various textbooks that have been prepared upon the subject.
The arrangement of the collection which is contained in ten tablecases is approximately as follows  rockforming minerals accessory minerals in rocks ores rocks proper rockstructures distinctive groups of fossils and the genera of recent shells.
It is thought that through a collection of this kind much valuable assistance can be given to the student to whom the laige general collections of the Academy can be of but little service.
Sjecimens for study have during the year been loaned to Profs.
Scott and Osborn of Princeton N. J. Prof. R. P. Whitfield of New York and Prof. O. C. Marsh of New Haven.
In conclusion the CuratorinCharge desires to call attention to three pressing wants of the Academy  1.
The absolute need of an extension to the present building wherein to store the rapidly increasing collections and to accommodate the material already in possession that can no longer find proper place for exhibition.
2.
An amphitheatre or lecturehall suitable for large audiences  and 3.
A museum fund wherewith to purchase such needed specimens for the Museum as do not come in the regular way of donation.
It is also earnestly recommended that some provision be made toward permitting access to the Museum on Sundays.
It cannot be denied that a large part of the population of our city is debarred from the advantages oflfered by the Academy by reason of the institution being closed on the only day which is free to the artisan merchant or mechanic.
Complaint in this regard is frequently made and it is much to be wished that the Academy may at an early day meet the generous demand that is made upon it.
The additional expense that would be entailed upon the institution through such opening while beyond the resources available at present must necessarily be slight and it is but fair to assume that such assistance might be obtained as will permit of the project being carried into execution.
Very respectfully Angelo Heilpkin CuratorinCharge.
Joseph Leidy CKn Curators.
REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. VAUX COLLECTIONS.
The Curator of the William S. Vaux collections respectfully submits his fifth annual report to the Council of the Academy  The collections are in good order and condition.
No change has been made since the report of 1886 except such as would necessarily result from the introduction of the new specimens added to the collections.
During the year 156 specimens were purchased at a cost of 638.00.
To accommodate the increase 44.60 have been expended for two new cases.
The collections consist at jresent as follows  Number of mineral specimens as per report of 1886 .
6630 Purchased during the year ending November 30 .
.
156 Total ........ 6786 Archseological specimens same as reported in 1886 .
2940 The growth of the collections since they came into the Academy's possession has been as follows  Specimens purchased in 1884 60 Specimens jxirchased in 1885 ..... 104 Specimens purchased in 1886 .
.
.
.
.
.
114 Specimens purchased in 1887 156 Total 434 The aggregate cost of these has been .
.
.. 2086.70 Among those purchased during the present year most worthy of special notice may be mentioned a Stalagmite of Aragonite.
This specimen measures 4 ft. 4 in.
in height and weighs about 100 pounds.
It was taken from a cavern in the Organ Mountain New Mexico and is believed to be an unusually fine example of stalagmitic formation.
Other interesting specimens are a fine grouj of Rutiles from Georgia remarkable for their high lustre and sharp angles of crystallization  a large specimen of Wulfenite from Arizona the stone matrix of which is 6 by 8 inches coated over with beautifol red translucent crystals of Molybdate of lead  a large specimen of Stibuite from Japan weighing 125 pounds consisting of a group of 70 or 80 well terminated crystals of Antimony Sulphide with beautiful modifications and several specimens of Azurite and Malachite from Arizona.
Respectfully submitted Jacob Binder Curator.
EEPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
During the year 17 stated meetings were held with an average attendance of 10 members.
The Annual Exhibition was held Dec. 9th 1886 with the usual success.
One member and eight contributors were elected during the year.
The deaths of Dr. N. A. Randolph and of Paul P. Keller were announced.
The following are the more important subjects under discussion during the year December 6 1886.
Recent advances in Embryology by Prof. J.
A. Ryder.
December 6 1886.
Fructification in the Algae by Dr. L. Brewer Hall.
January 3 1887.
Observations upon Trichia scabra by Harold Wingate.
January 3 1887.
Demonstration of Prof. Ryder's ribbon cutting Microtome.
January 17 1887.
Observations upon the eggs of the Skate by Prof. J.
A. Ryder.
February 9 1887.
Upon the best methods of making Cells by Dr. L. Ashley Faught.
February 9 1887.
The blastodermic layers in the yolk of different animals by Prof J.
A. Ryder.
February 21 1887.
The hairs and spines of Onosmodium Virginiana and other plants by Dr. J.
B. Brinton.
February 21 1887.
Experiments with the moth larva in reference to the manner in which they injure wood fibres by George B. Cock.
March 7 1887.
Experiments with the moth larva and Cockroach with referrence to the manner in which they injure wool fibres by George B. Cock.
April 4 1887 Upon the anatomy of the sexual apparatus of the Bee by Prof J.
A. Ryder.
April 4 1887.
Description of a new Microtome for making large sections of the brain etc. by Prof. J.
A. Ryder.
April 18 1887.
The hearing organ of Mysis flexuosa by by Harold Wingate.
April 18 1887.
Hemiarcyria serpula by Dr. George A. Rex.
April 18 1887.
Structure of the leaf of Deutzia by Dr. J.
B. Brinton.
April 18 1887.
Anatomy of the leg of the Honey Bee by Dr. L. Brewer Hall.
April 18 1887.
The making of wax cells by John C. Wilson.
June 6 1887.
Karyokinesis by Prof. J.
A Ryder.
Seftember 19 1887.
The evolution of an eightlimbed vertebrate by Prof J.
A. Ryder.
September 19 1887.
The warts upon the legs of the Horse by Prof Harrison Allen.
October 3 1887.
The development of the ovum in the Field Mouse by Prof J.
A. Ryder.
October 17 1887.
Placentation in animals by Prof. J.
A. Ryder.
On October 17 a course of lectures to be delivered during the winter was arranged by the lecture committee.
The first one by Prof J.
A. Ryder upon The two great Plans of Animal Organization was given in the hall of the Academy Monday November 21 1887.
Very respectfully Robert J. Hess Recorder.
REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that during the year past such Conchological papers as have been accepted have been published by the Academy as heretofore.
The Section has lost by death one member Isaac Lea LL.
D. who died in last December at the advanced age of ninety four years.
At a.sjecial meeting of the section held Dec. 14th 1886 the following minute was adojted and by direction transmitted to his family. 
The Republic of Natural Sciences has lost a generous friend and an efficient workman by the death of Dr. Isaac Lea.
His services to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia have extended through seventyone years from June 1815.
He was one of the founders of the Conchological Section Dec. 1866 and was its first Director.
During a period of over fifty years he gave his time and talents his labor influence and money in aiding the progress of Conchology in its several dejartments and especially in that of the fresh water mollusks.
.
In this he was leader and master and among the first in authority.
His name is conspicuous wherever Conchology is studied on account of the valuable services he has rendered in this department of the Natural Sciences.
His happy life was prolonged far beyond the common lot.
We sincerely deplore his loss.
Our sympathies are with his family.
We place this record on our minutes in testimony of our sense of his high and in every respect exemplary character and conduct.
Mr. G. W. Tryon Jr. Conservator reports as follows  The presentation by Mi's.
Susan D. Brown of Princeton N. J. of the extensive and valuable collection of pulmoniferous land shells made by her late son Albert D. Brown is the principal event in the history of our section during the year.
Mr. Brown a well known conchologist and one of the founders of this Section by devoting his attention to a single great group of the mollusca succeeded in amassing a collection which for the completeness of its suites and beauty of arrangement ranked easily among the best in the world.
His mother anxious to place these treasures where they would be most useful offered them to us subject to no restriction whatever.
Upon consideration of the extent and condition of the collection your conservator decided that no portion of the mounted series should be excluded from our cases for although we already possessed a large proportion of the species the localities were in most cases different and the specimens frequently much finer than ours.
Hundreds of the species were however new to us.
The mounting and labelling of the Brown shells was confided to Mr. Frank Stout and this duty which has occupied his time for the major portion of the year has been very acceptably performed.
The collection numbers 5404 trays and labels containing 19593 specimens.
Mrs. Brown also presented the fine microscope used by her late son.
A suitable inscription has been engraved upon this instrument which is intended for the use of members of the section and conchological students generally.
1887.
421 Other important accessions include suites of the land shells of China from B. Schmacker and Rev.
M. Heude those from the latter being a set of his types a collection of Philippine and two of Polynesian shells obtained by purchase a series of the shells dredged in southern American waters by Dr. Wm.
H. Rush U. S. N. including a number of recently described new species a collection from Canton Ills from J. Wolf and a large collection of Iowa shells from B. Shimek.
Our American suites have continued to be enriched as heretofore by the gifts of numerous friends.
In all 47 additions from 31 sources have been made aggregating 739 lots and 3699 specimens see Additions to Museum.
These have all been labelled .
and are incorporated in the collection which now embraces 51327 trays and labels and 189150 specimens.
Five members and fourteen Correspondents have been elected during the year.
No changes have been made in the ByLaws of the section.
The officers for 1888 are Director ViceDirector Recorder .
Secretary Treasurer .
Librarian .
Conservator W. S. W. Ruschenberger John Ford.
S. Raymond Roberts.
John H. Redfield.
.
Wm.
L. Mactier.
Edward J. Nolan.
Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. Respectfully submitted S. Raymond Roberts ' Recorder.
REPORT OP THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Recorder of the Entomological Section would state that the year now closing has been one of advanced success.
The meetings have shown a marked improvement in the attendance of the members also in the increased interest in the proceedings.
Much valuable information to Entomologists has been given through the remarks and addresses made by those present.
Dr. Horn has especially studied to assist all who were interested in the special branch of Coleoptera.
The section has held seven meetings in the year at which various entomological matters have been discussed.
422 1887.
The American Entomological Society has been able during the year to publish about 225 pages of its Transactions and in addition thereto has issued a sup23lementary volume containing 351 pages making a total amount of about 575 pages of printed matter issued.
The collections have been cared for by the custodian and curator and are in a remarkably good condition.
The following are the officers elected for the ensuing year.
Director Geo.
H. Horn M. D. ViceDirector .
.
.
.
Kev.
H. C. McCook D. D. Recorder J. H. Ridings.
Treasurer .
.
.
.
E. T. Cresson.
Respectfully submitted J. H. Ridings Recorder.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION.
The Botanical Section respectfully reports that at the annual election for the coming year the following officers were elected  Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger.
Thomas Meehan.
Dr. Charles SchafFer.
Isaac C. Martindale.
John H. Redfield.
Director ViceDirector Recorder Cor.
Secretary and Treasurer Conservator .
The Section is out of debt and has a balance with its Treasurer.
The meetings have been held regularly oh the appointed evenings with a full average attendance and honored at times by distinguished visitors.
At every meeting communications have been received and discussed and some of the more important have been printed in the Proceedings of the Academy.
The Herbarium continues the encouraging growth reported for several years the past year being perhaps still more encouraging than the others.
Through the attention of the Conservator John H. Redfield aided by Mr. Burk everything is distributed as fast as received and the record shows that the collection now embraces of flowering plants and ferns a total of 27267 species out of a possible 100000 known to Botanists.
1078 were new additions of the past season.
The Conservator's account of our progress in detail is attached as part of this report.
Respectfully submitted Thomas Meehan ViceDirector.
Conservator's Report for 1887.
The Conservator of the Botanical Section reports that the donations to the Herbarium during the year closing December 12th are estimated to be 7921 species of which 2245 are Phanerogams and Ferns 5601 are Fungi and 75 are Lichens.
Of the 2245 species of phanerogamic plants and ferns 1078 are believed to be new to our collection 98 of them representing new genera.
1099 are North American 611 are from Mexico and South America 64 are from the Eastern Continent and 471 are Australian.
What portion of the Fungi may be new to the collection cannot be estimated until the completion of the catalogue of this Order now in progress.
For the principal part of the large additions to the Academy's collection of Fungi we are indebted to Mrs. Anna T. Martin widow of the late Dr. Geo.
Martin of West Chester who has presented to us the entire collection made by her husband consisting of 4040 specimens neatly mounted in pockets and placed in boxes and all numbered to correspond with MSS.
catalogues accompanying These were mostly collected by Ravenel Rehm Kunze Rabenhorst and Winter and by Dr. Martin himself.
The donation also included Centuries I to XVII of Ellis' North American Fungi of which 15 Centuries are duplicates to those possessed by us.
Drs.
Rex and Wingate have also kindly presented Centuries XVIII and XIX of the same series making it complete to the present time.
These important additions taken in connection with the earlier collections of Schweinitz Ravenel Michener and others make this department of our Herbarium of unusual value and call for thorough rearrangement and critical examination of our material and the preparation of such a catalogue of our Fungi as shall make the whole readily accessible and useful to students.
This task has by the Section been committed to Messrs. Stevenson Rex Brinton and Wingate and we may hope it will be completed within another year.
The number of species of phanerogams and ferns represented in our Herbarium at date of last report was .... 26189 to which add the estimated accessions of the past year .
1078 and we have the estimated present total .... 27267 Among the additions of the past year worthy of special notice are the following for which we are indebted to members of the Section  four remittances from Baron F. von Miiller of Melbourne Australia through Mr. Meehan contaiaing 471 species of Australian plants of which 310 are new to the collection 52 of them representing new genera  a collection made by Dr. Palmer in the Mexican State of Jalisco in 1886 embracing 510 species of which onehalf were new to us  and a first instalment of the plants collected by N. N. Rusby in Chili Bolivia and Brazil in 1885 and 1886 consisting of about 450 species.
Most of the latter are yet undetermined except as to genus but it is estimated that about onehalf are new to us many of them being yet undescribed.
The time and labor required for the proper care of the new additions and for their incorporation into the Herbarium have somewhat retarded the work of mounting the North American portion of it nevertheless material progress has been made.
All of the Polypetalous and Monopetalous orders are now mounted and some portions of the remainder leaving less than onefourth of the work yet unaccomplished.
In all the work that has been performed the Conservator has been greatly aided by the efficient services of Mr. Isaac Burk.
In order to provide space for the Martin collection of Fungi it became absolutely necessary to make some disposal of a large amount of duplicate plants which had been gradually accumulating through a long period of years many of them of considerable value others in bad condition.
These by vote of the Section have been sent to Bryn Mawr College on terms believed to be mutually advantageous and the proceeds will be used for the increase of the Herbarium.
A complete list of the additions accompanies this report and will appear in its proper place under the head of Additions to the Museum.
Respectfully submitted John.
H. Redfield Conservator.
REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Mineralogical and Geological Section would respectfully report to the Academy that a number of meetings have been held 1887.
425 during the year but that owing to absence of members and other causes the attendance and interest has not been as great as in former years nor have the additions to the collections been as large excepting those to the Vaux collection.
It would also report that the officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows  Director .... ViceDirector Recorder and Secretary Treasurer .... Conservator Theo.
D. Rand.
W. W. Jefferis.
Charles Scaffer.
John Ford.
W. W. Jefleris.
Respectfully submitted Theo.
D. Rand Director.
Chas.
Schaffer Recorder.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE PALEONTOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports that during the year he has conducted a course of practical instruction in geology and paleontology the course comprising some twentyfive lectures in the classroom and nine field demonstrations.
The attendance in the lectureroom was about forty and in the field thirty or more.
Much good work was done in the field the two excursions to the marl diggings in the southern part of New Jersey adding considerably to our knowledge of the Tertiary fauna of the State.
Thirty species not hitherto recorded had been identified and three new forms determined.
The existence of the Newer Miocene deposits had also been determined by one of the members of the class Mr. Lewis Woolman who has published a japer on the subject in the Proceedings of the Academy.
The undersigned has Kkewise prepared a paper upon the New Jersey Miocene fauna giving a complete list of the Miocene Molluscan species known to date.
The excursion supplementary to the general course extended over a period of nineteen days comprising the region between the Delaware Water Gap and the Catskill Mts. and was participated in by fifteen students.
28 The collections in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology have received a number of accessions during the year but none of very great importance.
Attention is called in the report of the Curators to the addition of a number of new cases to the main floor of the Museum which will now permit of the definite location of the Academy's share of the extensive series of fossils collected in Florida in the early part of last year and which during study had been temporarily deposited in the room pertaining to Ethnology and Archaeology.
The arrangement of a synoptic geological and paleontological collection designed as a key or practical manual for the student is also indicated in the Curator's report.
The collections in general have been studied by a number ot students from the city schools and material from them has been sent to Prof. R. P. Whitfield of New York to assist in the preparation of an extensive work on the fossil invertebrate fauna of the State of New Jersey.
Very respectfully Angelo Heilprin Prof of Invertebrate Paleontology.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY.
The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that during the past year he has delivered a series of teli lectures on the Sense Organs in the Animal Kingdom besides having conducted a class in animal dissection during the spring months.
In the autumn he inaugurated a class in practical comparative histology which at present numbers six students meeting once a week on Saturdays.
A course of some five lectures is intended to be given during January and February of the coming year on Certain Chapters in Zoological Philosophy.
The additions to the Museum have not been very numerous nor especially important although comprising a number of interesting forms that have been heretofore wanting.
Much improvement has been made by the CuratorinChaige in the more systematic arrangement of the collections and it is hoped in a very short time a regular zoological sequence may be established.
Very respectfully Benjamin Sharp Professor of Invertebrate Zoology.
KEPOKT OF THE PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY.
The Professor of Mineralogy respectfully reports that since his last published report he has delivered in the Hall of the Academy a course of twentyfive lectures on Mineralogy to a class of some thirty persons.
Field excursions and lectures in the neighborhood of the city were given as well as practical instruction in the laboratory of the Academy.
During the past two years no lectures were given on account of absence in Europe the undersigned being engaged during the winters in petrological studies at the University of Heidelberg and during the summers at geological researches in Great Britain and on the continent.
It is intended to deliver a course of illustrated lectures upon Microscopical Petrology during the present winter.
As shown by the accompanying report of the Curators the mineralogical collection of the Academy has been enriched by a number of valuable additions.
Respectfully submitted H. Carvill Lewis Professor of Mineralogy.
REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND ARCHEOLOGY.
During the past year a private course of six lectures were delivered by me on Anthropology and several on Archseology in the popular course.
They were well attended and there have been many indications that these subjects and those of prehistoric man and Ethnology which are properly branches of it are exciting more and more attention both in the American scientific world at large and particularly in this community and among members of the Academy.
The proposition has been urged by several members that a section be formed especially devoted to these studies.
If the time is not already ripe for this it undoubtedly will be soon.
In my last report the attention of the Academy was called to the insufficient accommodations now provided for the Arch geological and Ethnological collections of the Academy and a resolution was passed asking more specific statements on this point.
The facts are these  The present collection is scattered throughout the building portions of it being in every room where there are any collections at all.
Many of the objects are crowded together in space too restricted to allow of their proper display.
Many have to be stored away in drawers or closed cases where the public or even students can derive no advantage from them whatever.
It has been found impossible to arrange them in any satisfactory manner.
In order to accomplish this a much larger space should be assigned this branch than it now occupies and all the objects properly belonging to it should be collected and disposed in the most illustrative manner.
The plan of such an arrangement should be distinctly the Ethnological plan not that adopted in the National Museum at Washington which for scientific purposes is the worst conceivable.
A great advantage which such increased space and scientific display would have would be to render manifest in what departments of anthropology the Academy is deficient and would stimulate members and their friends to su2ply such deficiencies.
This would not be difficult to accomplish.
On several occasions gentlemen have offered excellent collections either for gift or for deposit in the Academy provided we could give them fair space for display.
I have felt obliged to decline such offers as I knew that with the space at my command it was not possible to satisfy the reasonable expectations of the donors.
The additions during the year to the department under my charge have neither been numerous nor specially important the most noteworthy being a collection of Peruvian mummies and crania presented by Messrs. G. Y. and W. H. McCracken.
Respectfully submittrd D. G. Brikton Professor of Ethnology and Arehceology.
SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM.
C. HENSZEY TREASURER For the Year Ending Nov. 30 1887.
Dr. To Initiation Fees 110 00  Contributions semiannual 1589 16  Life Memberships 100 00  Admissions to Museum 292 95 ' Publication Committee Sales of Proceedings Journal etc 504 12  Microscopical and Biological Section Donation 50 00  State Tax on Mortgages 113 10  Miscellaneous 16 40  Lecture Fees 370 75  Estate Isaac Lee dec'd. Contribution for Dr. Genth's plates 96 50  Duplicate Books 1 25  Interest on Investments 2306 83  Interest on Money awaiting Investment 1097 13  Rentals from Real Estate 1850 33  Wilson Fund toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 ' Investment Fund amt.
transferred 4000 00  Museum Fund amt.
transferred 105 00 12912 52 Cr.
By Balance overdrawn from last account 1237 92  Salaries Janitors etc 3403 56  Printing and Binding Proceedings etc 707 85  Printing and Stationery 294 71  Repairs 450 92  Plates and Engravings 242 10  Gas 94 29  Postage 180 54  Coal 367 50  Cards Trays and Boxes 139 08  Insurance 55 00  Books 18 00  State Taxes on Mortgage Investments.
122 85  Water Rents 30 50  Miscellaneous 910 88 ' Vials 29 75  Mounting Specimens 49 10  Lecture Fees paid to Professors 307 27  Cases and Drawers 571 25  Taxes and Water Rents 1887 Real Estate 338 85  Repairs and Expenses Real Estate 1253 04  Life Memberships transferred to Investment Fund 100 00 10904 96 Balance 12007 56 I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND Investment Fund amt.
transferred 1750 00 Books I51H 40 Repairs to Houses 389 14 Taxes and Water Rents 194 93 Binding 97 95 Collecting 83 35 14031 77 Balance per last statement 12023 58 Rents Collected 1003 50 Ground Rents Collected 697 09 3724 17 Balance overdrawn  307 60 THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND.
Balance overdrawn as per last statement  147 08 Books 117 61 Binding 18 00 Cash transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian 300 00  582 69 Less Income from Investments 525 00 Balance overdrawn  bl 69 JESSUP FUND.
For Assistance of Students.
Interest on Investments  560 00 Balance overdrawn per last statement 99 Disbursements 271 00 271 99 Balance  288 01 WM.
S. VAUX FUND.
Balance per last statement  512 54 Interest on Investments 600 00 51112 54 Cash paid for Minerals 793 25 Balance  319 29 There is now a balance in tlie Investment Fund of twenty three thousand one hundred and forty nine dollars  to be invested.
1887.
431 President VicePresidents Recording Secretary Corresponding Secretary Treasurer Librarian Curators The election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Finance Committee to serve during 1888 was held with the following result.
Joseph Leidy M. D. Thomas Meehan Rev.
Henry C. McCook D. D. Edward J. Nolan M. D. George H. Horn M. D. William C. Henszey.
Edward J. Nolan M. D. Joseph Leidy M. D. Jacob Binder W. S. W. Ruschenberger M. D. Angelo Heilprin.
Charles P. Perot John H. Redfield S. Fisher Corlies Charles Morris.
Isaac C. Martindale Aubrey H. Smith S. Fisher Corlies George Y. Shoemaker William W. Jefferis.
Councillors to serve three years .... Finance Committee
