ON NEW GENERIC FORMS OF CRETACEOUS Mollusca AND THEIR RELATION TO OTHER FORMS.
BY CHARLES A.
WHITE.
Published by permission of the Director of the United States Geological Survey The type species of the three generic forms which are described in this article  belong to the collections of Cretaceous fossils from Texas which I am now preparing for publication in one of the memoirs of the U. S. Geological Survey.
In their generic characteristics all three of them apjear to be respectively identical with certain forms Avhich have long been known but which have been referred to other genera by different authors.
The features which I now present as having generic value seem to have been overlooked by those authors or so far as they were observed they were treated as specific characters.
Two of these forms belong to the section Melininse of the family Aviculidse.
The other is referred to the Crassatellidfe but it departs considerably from the typical section of that family.
CRASSATELLIDiE.
Genus Stearnsia gen. nov..
Shell compressed subtrihedral or subcircular in marginal outline beaks small closely apjiroximate prominent by reason of the abrujjt sloping away of both the anteroand posterodorsal borders lunule and escutcheon both well defined and flattened or excavated hinge strong consisting of both cardinal and lateral teeth cardinal teeth two in the left valve and three in the right both posterior and anterior lateral teeth long aud slender posterior laterals two in the right valve and one in the left anterior laterals two in the left valve and one in the right.
If however the overlapping border of the right valve and the entering border of the left within the lunule and the overlapping border of the left valve and the entering border of the right within the escutcheon be regarded as teeth the number of both the anterior and posterior laterals is two in each valve ligament  The names under which I liave described these forms respectively are Dallicoftcha Stearnsia and AguiUria.
They are given in honor of Dr. W. H. Dall and Dr. R. E. C. Stearns of the U. S. Geological Survey and of Senor Jose G. Aguilera of the Mexican Geographical and Exploring Commission.
small mainly internal free margins apparently smooth pallial line apparently simple.
This genus agrees with Crassatella in having both lunule and escutcheon clearly defined in the general character of the hinge exclusive of the lateral teeth in the nearly internal position of the ligament and apparently in having a simple pallial line.
It differs from Crassatella in its small and compressed beaks the laterally compressed form of the shell in its greater number of cardinal teeth and in the long and slender character of both the anterior and posterior lateral teeth.
It agrees with Astarte in having both lunule and escutcheon well defined but it differs from that genus in having a greater number of cardinal teeth in its well developed anterior and posterior lateral teeth  and in having its ligament mainly internal.
It agrees with Circe as represented by C. scripta Lin.
in its laterally compressed form especially that of the umbonal region and in the number of its cardinal teeth.
It diflfers from Circe in having its ligament mainly internal in the long and slender character of the anterior lateral teeth and in the possession of posterior lateral teeth.
It agrees with Eryjihila in having both lunule and escutcheon well defined and approximately in the character of its posterior and anterior lateral teeth.
It diflfers from that genus in having a greater number of cardinal teeth and in having its ligament mainly internal.
It has somewhat the aspect of Gouldia but it differs from that genus in having slender well developed posterior as well as anterior lateral teeth.
It has also a greater number of cardinal teeth than Gouldia and its ligament is differently situated and partly external.
The only species of this genus which I have satisfactorily examined is the one which is described in the following paragraph.
This I regard as the type of the genus but it is likely that the Astarte carinata of d'Orbigny is congeneric with it.
Stearnsia Robinsi sp.
nov. Pi.
II figs 79.
Shell much compressed trihedral in marginal outline lunule long and narrow nearly straight from end to end concave transversely escutcheon similar in shape and character to the lunule but longer beaks small appressed angular ligament slightly 1 See Pa4cont.
Francaise Ter.
Cret.
iii pi.
262 figs.
1. and 2. exposed and it appears to have been divided into an outer and inner portion by a calcareous septum umbonal furrows distinct producing an emargination at the posterior part of the convex basal border and a considerable prominence of the jwsterior extremity hinge strong the lateral teeth slender and extending the full length of the lunule and escutcheon respectively surface marked by strong concentric furrows and ridges which end abruptly at the margins of the lunule and escutcheon respectively the surface of both lunule and escutcheon plain AVICULIDJE.
Genus Dalliconcha gen. nov..
Shell resembling GervUUa in general form in the character of the test in the muscular markings and in the possession of a pitbearing diverging hinge area upon each valve.
The valves are more or less nearly equal in convexity beaks terminal divergent the upper borders of the hinge areas converging from the widely separated beaks to the posterior end of the wing where the areas come in contact with each other by their full width posterior wing elongate clearly defined from the body of the shell anterior wing absent the anterior extremity of each valve being inflexed so as to form when both valves are together a threelobed depression in the front portion of the shell one lobe of which ends at the extremity of each of the divergent beaks and the other below at the contact of the anterobasal margins of the valves.
At the bottom of the depression there is a distinct byssal aperture to form which both valves are nearly or quite equally notched.
The articulating portion of the hinge of each valve is marked by more or less distinct creuulations which cross it obliquely downward and backward and which are sometimes visible upon the surface of the areas above the articulating border.
At the anterior end of the hinge these creuulations are approximately perpendicular and sometimes denticulate in character and at the posterior end they sometimes assume the form of slender nearly horizontal lateral teeth above which are more nearly transverse creuulations.
Dalliconcha agrees with Gervilliain the characteristics already mentioned but it difters from the typical forms of that genus mainly in the inflection of the anterior extremity of the valves and the consequent terminal position of the beaks and absence of an anterior ear.
It also differs in wanting the large longitudinal teeth which characterize true Gervilliaas seen for example in G. dlfficilis d'Orbigny and G. anceps Deshayes. The byssal aperture is also more clearly defined than in Gervillia
In these differing features it agrees approximately with Perna but it differs conspicuously from Perna in its much more elongate form in the distinct definition of the posterior wing the smaller number of ligamental pits and in the crenulation of the hinge.
This genus is more nearly related to Gervilliathan to any other genus of the Aviculidse the relation between the two genera being somewhat similar to that which exists between the living forms of Avicula and the Carboniferous genus Monopteria of Meek and Worthen.
The species which is described in the following paragraph is proposed as the type of Dallicoiicha but the Gervilliaensiformis of Conrad is an equally typical species.
The G. avlculoldes of Defrance not Sowerby and G. solenoides Defrance seem also to belong to this genus as doubtless do several other forms which have been referred to Gervillia
Dalliconcha invaginata nov.
5p..
Pi.
li figs.
4 and 5.
Shell long and slender  the dorsum gently concave from beak to posterior end and transversely flattened by the abrupt inflection of the dorsal border of each valve  wing well developed  the anterior depression rather deep  beaks prominent  byssal aperture moderately large oval  hingeareas each bearing five or six ligamental pits which are of unequal size  the spaces between the pits marked by irregular oblique crenulations.
Genus AGUILERIA gen. nov..
Shell resembling Perna in general form in the character of the test in its muscular markings and in the possession of a pitbearing diverging hinge area upon each valve.
The valves are more or less nearly equal in convexity  a more or less distinct ftirrow passes from the dorsal border of each valve near the apex of the beak to the anterior margin defining a projecting more or less inflated anterior portion of the shell which is homologous with the anterior ear of Margaritophora.
The beaks are not prominent situated anteriorly but not terminal  ligamental pits distinct but not numerous.
The articulating See Paleont.
Francaise Ter.
Ciet. iii pi.
391 fig.
3 and pi.
396 fig.
7 portion of the hinge of both valves of the adult examples of the type species is marked by crenulations or denticles which cross the hinge at nearly right angles in front but at the posterior portion their course is obliquely downward and backward.
In the type species a small blunt tooth is observable at the anterior end of the hinge of the left valve  and there is a larger more oblique one at the posterior end of the hinge.
There are corresponding pits in the left valve to receive these teeth and some specimens also show a slight elevation at the side of the anterior and posterior dental jits respectively suggesting that they represent incipient teeth in that valve.
Byssal aperture obscure or absent.
This genus agrees with Perna in .the characters which have already been mentioned but it differs from Perna in the retreating position of the beak in the projecting instead of inflected anterior extremity of the shell beneath the beaks in the crenulalation of the articulating portion of the hinge in the smaller number of ligamental pits and in the absence of a welldefined byssal notch in either valve.
It agrees with Margaritophora as shown for example by the living species M. pica Gould from the southern Pacific Ocean in the character of the test in the muscular markings in the possession of blunt teeth upon the anterior and posterior portions of the hinge and in the retreating position of the beaks.
It differs from Margaritophora in having welldeveloped ligamental pits in its hinge areas a crenulate or denticulate instead of a smooth hinge border and in the absence of a compressed anterior ear and of a distinct byssal notch.
Bakevellia has some characteristics similar to those of this genus but its ligamental pits are fewer in number and occupy only the middle portion of the hinge while its lateral teeth are two or three in number at each end of the hinge and they are nearly parallel to the hinge border  the latter being smooth and not crenulate.
Besides this there is some reason to doubt whether Bakevellia really belongs to the family Aviculidse as do Perna and its congeners  and to which family this new genus is referred.
The siecies which is described in the following paragraph is proposed as the type of Aguileria.
Senor Aguilera has shown me some examples of a species which he obtained from the Cretaceous rocks of the State of Puebla Mexico which is probably congeneric with this Texan form.
It is probable also that the GervUlia Renaxixiana of Matheron and other published forms ought to be referred to the genus here projosed.
A form from the Cretaceous of Brazil described by me some years ago under the name of GervUlia dissita but still unpublished seems to belong to this genus.
If those species should be assigned to this genus it may be that the crenulation of the hinge will be found to be an inconstant character but the other characters which are herein described are regarded as a sufficient basis for its generic identity.
Aguileria Cumminsi sp.
nov..
PI.
II figs.
13.
Shell inflated obliquely subelliptical in marginal outline test thick hinge line moderately long hinge areas broad bearing three or four ligamental pits hinge border including the surface of the cardinal teeth distinctly crenulated in adult examples posterior cardinal tooth moderately large anterior one small and indistinct.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE II.
Aguileiia cumminsi White.
Fig.
L Left side view of an adult example.
Fig.
2.
Dorsal view of the same.
Fig.
3.
Interior view of a left valve somewhat narrowed by lateral compression showing the hinge and cardinal area.
Dalliconcha invagiiiata W. Fig.
4.
Right side view of a restored outline reduced to threefourths natural size.
Fig.
5.
Front view of an adult example restored as to its outline from a partially crushed condition.
Dalliconcha ensiformis Conrad sp.
Fig.
6.
A left valve showing hinge and front features  introduced for comparison.
Stearnsia robbinsi W. Fig.
7.
Left side view of a mediumsized example.
Fig.
8.
Dorsal view of the same.
Fig.
9.
An imperfect example showing the hinge of the left valve.
All the figures except 4 are of natural size.
February 1.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Twentytwo persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication  On the Cretaceous Formations of Texas and their reations to those of other portions of North America by Charles A.
White.
On Zinc Manganese Asbestos by George A. Koenig Ph.
D. Parasite of a Bat.
Dr. Leidy remarked that it was a common opinion among country people that swallows and bats were infested with bedbugs and often introduced them into houses.
He had convinced himself that the Ciniex infesting the cliffswallow Avas a different species from the bedbug. He had repeatedly examined bats without finding Ciniex.
On one of two small bats from Panama Bay presented this evening by Dr. Wra.
H. Jones he found two singular insects Avhich appear to be the Polyctenes fumarius described by Prof Westwood from a bat of Jamaica.
They are about half of the size given for the species but otherwise appear to agree in all respects.
It has four jointed antennae with the first pair of limbs short and the other pair long.
The insect has distinct hemiclytra.
On a Peculiar Form of Molybdenite.
Dr. Geo.
A. Koenig called attention to a specimen of Molybdenite from the Germantown quarries presented by Mr. Thomas Meehan.
The Molybdenite forms a perfect cylinder 2 inches long y  inch diameter.
It shows a lamellar structure but the leaves are twisted and felted together.
Owing to the remarkable shape the speaker had supposed the substance to be graphite and placed by some persons quarrymen in a 2 inch drillhole ramming it down tightly.
Blowpipe tests however show the substance to be Molybdenite.
In the opeii tube a peculiar odor Avas noticed not quite like that of Selenium but near it and it was believed to be desirable that a quantitative analysis should be made.
February 8.
Mr Thomas Meehan VicePresident in the chair.
Fourteen persons present.
A paper entitled On Invertebrates from the Eocene of Mississippi and Alabama by Otto Meyer was presented for publication.
The following were ordered to be printed.
1 Proc.
1877 284.
ON THE CRETACEOUS FORMATIONS OF TEXAS AND THEIR RELATION TO THOSE OF OTHER PORTIONS OF NORTH AMERICA.
BY CHARLES A.
WHITE.
Published by permission of the Director of the U. S. Geological Survey.
The true relations of the different Cretaceous formations which have long been known to exist within the State of Texas to each other and to those which have been recognized in other portions of North America have not hitherto been satisfactorily known.
Several eminent geologists have written upon the subject and considerable diversity of opinion has prevailed among them.
The former impracticability of obtaining information by personal observation over any considerable portion of that great region the destruction by the civil war of the work so well begun by Dr. Bhumard and the limited knowledge then possessed by any one of the general geology of North America were doubtless the causes which prevented a satisfactory solution of this question.
Now numerous railroads traverse the State the hostile tribes which barred the progress of travelers have been quieted or removed and a good outline of the geology of the continent is known.
With the opportunity of availing myself of these advantages I entered last year upon an investigation of the Texas Cretaceous placing the field work in charge of my chief assistant Mr. Robert T. Hill.
In the latter part of the season I traversed the State in various directions in company with Mr. Hill reviewing his work and making additional observations.
The following section is the result of these labors and I am so well convinced of the accuracy of its essential features that I do not hesitate to adopt it as the basis of my paleontological and museum work in relation to the Texas Cretaceous although the order of superposition therein given is so different from what it has been generally supposed to be.
The remarks at the right hand side of the column which represents the section are by Mr Hill who has with considerable care compared this section with those which have hitherto been published as representing the Texas Cretaceous.
40 1887.
General Section of the Cretaceous Strata of the Eastern half of Texas.
s W CO W 33 U  o u 7.
Navarro Beds.
tA 6. w Austin Limestone.
b 1  o Eaglb Ford Shales.
Timber Creek Beds.
7.
Strata in Navarro County given this name by B. F. Shumard and correlated with the Ripley Group in 1861 but not placed in his general section of 1860  correlated with Ripley Group at Terrell by R. H Loughridge  10th Census Report Vol.
V. Included by Roemer together with i and 5 of this section in his Kreidebildungen am Fusse des Hochlandes.
Outcrops along a narrow area upon the western border of the Gulf States Tertiary.
6.
Outcrops to the west of No.
7. occupying the socalled Black Prairie region.
Of great thickness and uniformity of character Recognized by Owen as extending into Arkansas and as equivalent with the rotten limestone of Mississippi named Austin Limestone by B. F. Shumard in 1860 and placed in his section between Nos.
2 and 3 of this section but its true relation not then recognized.
Included by Roemer with No.
7.
Sherman Dallas Waco Austin and New Braunfels are approximately upon the western border of the outcrop.
5.
Yellow arenaceous and blue argillaceous shales narrow exposure west and along the northern half of No 6.
Is the lower part of Shumard's Austin limestone and also the Arenaceous Group and Fish Bed of his Lower Cretaceous.
4 Coarse ferruginous sands and clays  fossiliferous.
Has been alluded to by various writers as Tertiary Miocene Quaternary etc.
Its outcrop is coextensive with the region know as the Lower Cross Timbers.
It apparently rests unconformably upon No.
3.
3.
Washita Division.
2.
Fredericksburg Division.
Dinosaur Sands.
3.
Strata of this division at Fort Washita I. T. partially described in 18.54. and called Senonien by G. G. Shumard wrongly placed by B. F. Shumard.
in his section immediately beneath No.
6 of this section.
More comprehensively described by Jules Marcou in 185.5 and referred to the Neoconian.
Is not distinctly .separable from No.
2 either by the character of the strata or fossil contents.
Outcrop occupies a narrow belt extending southwaid from old Fort Washita via Denison.
Denton Fort Worth Salado Austin and westward of San Antonio  was included together with No 2 by Roemer in his Kreidebildungen des Hochlandes.
2.
In 1848 this division was included by Roemer in his Kreidebildungen des Hochlandes as seen in buttes north of Fredericksburg.
It is also the Comanche Peak Group the Caprina Limestone and Caprotina Limestone of B. F. Shumard in 1860.
These authors placed all except the last named strata at the top of the whole Texas Cretaceous series.
Outcrops along the borders of the paleozoic areas in Central Texas.
1.
Coarse silicious sand popularly called packsand.
Occurs between the base of the fossiliferous Cretaceous and the carboniferous series.
Contains vertebrate remains.
The fossils which have been collected from the strata of this Texas section have not yet been fully studied with reference to the different formations which they represent.
That work has however so far progressed as to give some important indications as to the equivalency of certain of these Texas formations with those which different geologists have investigated in the regions to the eastward westward and northward from that State and also to show that a large part of the Texas Cretaceous section is not represented by any of the formations referred to.
The following table will serve to formulate these indications but as the recognition of equivalency is more satisfactory in some cases than in others each case is considered separately in the following paragraphs  Mississippi Section.
Texas Section.
Western Section.
Upper Missouri River Section.
Ripley Group.
Rotten Limestone.
Tombigbee Sand.
Eutaw Group.
Wanting.
Wanting.
Navarro Beds Austin Limestone.
 Eagle Ford Shales S Timber Creek Beds.
Washita Division.
Fredericksb'g Division.
Fox Hills Group.
Colorado Group.
Dakota Group.
Wanting.
Wanting.
Nos.45orFt.
Pierre and Fox Hills Groups.
j Nos.2  3or Ft. Benton  and Niobrarra Groups.
No.
I or Dakota Group.
Wanting.
Wanting.
Before making comparisons of the Texas section with the others of this table it is necessary to make some explanations with reference to the relations of the latter to each other.
The Mississippi section indicated in the foregoing table is that which was published by Prof. E. W. Hilgard in his official report upon the geology of the State of Mississippi. The western section is a modification first proposed by King of the wellknown Upper Missouri River section of Meek and Hayden which is represented by the righthand column.
King however placed the equivalents of Nos.
3 4 and 5 of the Upper Missouri section all together under the name of Fox Hill Group.
This being an unnatural grouping of the strata vipon paleontological groimds I still further modified it by placing Nos.
2 and 3 together under King's name of Colorado Group  and Nos.
4 and 5 together under one of the original names of Fox Hills Group 1 Geology and Agriculture of Mississippi 1860 p. 3 2 U. S. Geol.
Expl. 40th Parallel vol.
i pp.
305 306.
3 Ann.
Report U. S. Geol.
Surv.
Terr for 1876 p. 22.
These two consolidated groups together with the Dakota Group the separate identity of which all geologists have recognized constitute the western Cretaceous section of the foregoing table.
The New Mexican Section of Prof. Newberry seems to be practically identical with the western section of the foregoing table.
 He seems to indicate however that there is in that region a blending of the Dakota Group with the next overlying formation.
It may be noted also that at least one of the species Avhich Mr. Meek describes in that report as coming from the middle division of the New Mexican Section is now known to belong to a lower horizon than that of the base of his section namely to that of the Comanche division of the Texas section.
Southward from Dakota and Montana I have never been able to separate the equivalent of No.
4 from that of No.
5 of Meek and Hayden's section either stratigraphically or paleontologically.
It is for this reason that I have referred all strata that carry any of the fossils which they indicated as characterizing either of those divisions to the Fox Hills' Group alone.
On the other hand while Nos.
2 and 3 are so closely related to each other paleontologically that they are now generally regarded as constituting one natural group an upper and a lower lithological division of the same are quite as clearly recognizable in southern Colorado and northern New Mexico as in the Upper Missouri Kiver region.
It is a significant fact that while the separate identity of the Dakota group has been indicated by specific identity of plant remains which are found over a large region as well as by tratigraphical position there is a marked difference in the character of the invertebrate fossils from different localities.
I refer especially to those which Mr. Meek and myself have published as coming from strata of that group in Central Kansas as compared with the few which have been found in southeastern Dakota The Kansas forms are mainly or wholly of marine origin but they are such as may have lived in littoral waters while those of southeastern Dakota are of diflferent species and indicate a 1 Newberry's Geol.
Rept.
Expl.
Exped.
from Santa Fe to Junction of Grand and Green Rivers pp.
32 121 122.
 lb. p. 126 pi.
i figs.
7 a b.
3 Ann.
Report U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Terr for 1870 pp.
297 301313 Vol.
IX U. S. Geol.
Sur.
Terr. p. 24.
4 Proc.
U. S. National Museum Vol.
2 pp.
295 296 pi.
5. less saline condition.
It is also significant that with the exception of some marine mollusca which Mr. Meek doubtfully referred to the Dakota group in New Mexico no other invertebrates than those which the Kansas and Dakota localities have furnished have been reported as coming from that group.
The facts which have been mentioned others which will be referred to and our present knowledge of the general geology of that western region all seem to indicate that while the greater part of the Dakota group as it is now known is a nonmarine deposit we ought to expect to find it to merge into a marine deposit to the southward.
Now in making comparisons of the Texas Cretaceous rocks with those which have been observed in other parts of the continent we find that the whole Comanche series represents older strata than are included in any of the other published sections of North American Cretaceous except perhaps that of California. The strata of the Comanche series are known to extend northward from Texas into the Indian Territory and some of its characteristic fossils have been found in southeastern Kansas.
Fossils belonging to this series have also been found at various points in western Texas and the adjacent southeastern part of New Mexico.
They have also been found at various jDoints in Mexico one locality being upon the western side of the Sierra Madre in the Mexican State of Sonora. Judging from all the information which I have been able to obtain I infer that none of the strata of the Comanche series extend beyond the eastern boundaries of Texas nor further northward than southern Kansas.
It seems probable also that while this series is well developed both faunally and stratigraphically in Texas it has or originally had its greatest development within the region which is now the Republic of Mexico.
Again judging from present information there seems to be a comjjlete faunal bi'eak at the top of the Comanche series.
That is I am not yet aware that a single fossil species of that series passes up into any of the upper members of the Texas Cretaceous Section.
The Comanche series is therefore not only greatly restricted in its geographical extension to the eastward and 1 Newberry's Geol.
Report before cited p. 121. ''
White  Bull U. S. Geol.
Surv. No Vol15 p. Ill 1885.
3 Gabb  Paleontology of California Vol.
II p. 257. northward but there seems also to be a clear line of demarkation between that series and the upper one within the State of Texas.
No unconformity of the strata of the upper series upon those of the latter has yet been satisfactorily observed but it can hardly be doubted that there is at least a brief chronological break between the two series.
This latter question however I am not now prepared to discuss.
From the foregoing remarks it Avill be seen that it is the formations of the upper series alone which can now be discussed with reference to equivalency with the formations represented by the other sections of the foregoing table.
Beginning with the lowest member of the upper or Gulf series namely the Timber Creek beds I regard those strata as at least in pai't equivalent with the Dakota group of the Western and ujDper Missouri sections and perhaps equivalent with the Eutaw group of the Mississippi section.
Of the latter supposed equivalency I have no paleontological evidence and the suggestion is made mainly in consequence of the stratigraphical position of the Eutaw group.
That the Timber Creek beds are equivalent with the Dakota group is indicated not only by the position of each with reference to overlying formations but I have recognized some of the species which were first found in the Dakota strata of central Kansas in the Timber Creek beds of Denton County Texas.
The Eagle Ford shales are recognized as equivalent with the bluish shales or lower portion of the Colorado group as it is known in Colorado and the adjoining territories.
That is I have recognized certain of the species of the Eagle Ford shales as identical with some which occur in the Colorado group to the northwestward of Texas.
The lithological character of the shales of both regions is also similar.
As to the equivalency of the Eagle Ford shales with the Tombigbee sand of the Mississippi section the only reason I now have for offering that suggestion is its stratigraphical position.
That the Austin limestone is equivalent both stratigraphically and paleontologically with the rotten limestone of the Mississippi section as has been shown by other authors there seems to be no reason to doubt.
I also regard those Texan strata as equivalent Avith the upper division of the Colorado group.
The Texan strata are not only quite similar in lithological character to those of that division as it is known in southern Colorado and New Mexico but I have recognized several species of fossils as common to the Austin limestone and those more northern strata.
The paleontological evidence that the Navarro beds are equivalent with the Ripley group of the Mississippi section as presented by Shumard  seems to be beyond question.
It is also known that several molluscan species which characterize the equivalents of the Navarro beds in the Cretaceous of the Gulf and Atlantic coast regions are not uncommon in the Fox Hills group of the Western section.
The Fox Hills groups of the Western section is clearly recognizable as such in the valley of the Rio Grande in western Texas where it is found to contain a number of the characteristic species of the group.
The evidence is conclusive also that the Fox Hills strata there are or originally were directly continuous with those of that epoch which are found to the northward. Of the present or former direct stratigraphical continuity of the western Fox Hills strata with their presumed equivalents in Eastern Texas and in the Gulf and Atlantic coast regions present evidence is not so clear.
Although the identity of certain species found in those eastern and western strata respectively is beyond reasonable question there is a decided difference both paleontological and lithological between them.
Still there seems to be good reason for regarding them as having been synchronously deposited.
Their differences were perhaps largely due to the presence of a land area between an eastern and a western marine area during the Fox HillsRiijley epoch to the southward of which the two marine areas coalesced.
This view seems to find corroboration in the fact that most of the species which are common to both the eastern and western strata are open sea forms and consequently had a wdde geographical range.
Those species which differ most in the two regions respectively are apparently such as had a more restricted range.
We now come to consider the relation of the Fox Hills strata and the Navarro Beds respectively to overlying formations.
It a.ppears to be unquestionable that the Lignite Tertiary Beds of eastern Texas rest directly upon the Navarro Beds just as the 1 Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. viii p. 189.
 This volume pp.
1820. equivalent Tertiary strata rest upon the Ripley Group in Mississippi but in Texas the actual contact seems not yet to have been seen by a comjetent observer.
The faunal difference also between the Navarro and the Lignite Beds plainly indicate a change in physical conditions and also a chronological break of some extent.
The break however may have been only a brief one.
On the other hand the strata of the Fox Hills Group in the region of the Rio Grande are directly overlaid by those of the Laramie Group the two formations so blending together that no sharply defined plane of demarkation between them can be recognized.
Thus we find the stratigraphical series in that western region to be an unbroken one up to the top of the Laramie Group while the eastern series is broken at the top of the Navarro Beds.
We are therefore still in doubt as to the true stratigraphical relation of the Laramie Group with the Eocene Tertiary of the Gulf region.
If that relation is ever discovered it now seems certain that we shall find it in the southwestern part of Texas or the adjacent part of Mexico.
The Dakota Grouji of the western and upper Missouri sections rests directly upon Jurassic strata which in turn rest upon a series known as the Red Beds and usually regarded as of Triassic age.
Those Red Beds are there found to rest upon the Carboniferous or upon older jaleozoic rocks.
No equivalent of the Jurassic strata referred to have been recognized in connection with the Texas Cretaceous section as given in this article and they seem to have entirely thinned out before reaching the region of Central Texas.
In that region the strata next underlying the Comanche series are clearly either those of the Carboniferous or of the Red Beds.
The latter are not known to exist to the eastward of the Carboniferous area of Northern Central Texas but they reach considerable thickness upon the western side of that area Avhere they are usually known as the Gypsum formation.
It appears from the investigations upon which this article is based that certain of the members of the Texas Cretaceous section have not heretofore been recognized and that the true order of superposition of the formations has been misunderstood the theoretical section of Marcou' being more nearly correct than any heretofore published.
It also appears that while the lower iProc Boston Soc.
Nat.
History Vol.
VIII p. 93. series of that section is not represented in any of the other published sections in North America tlie upper series may be satisfactorily correlated with the western and upjer Missouri sections and in part at least with the Cretaceous formations of the Gulf and Atlantic coast regions.
In making these investigations the really valuable Avork of Dr. B. F. Shumard has been adopted so far as practicable and a large proportion of the fossil species which he published but did not figure have been recognized.
The admirable work of Prof. Roemer also is found to be as useful today as it was when it was first published forty years ago.
ON ZINC MANGANESE ASBESTOS.
BY GE0RC4E A KOENIG PH.
D. During a visit to the Franklin Zinc Mines in 1879 I obtained from Mr. George then Superintendent of the Trotter mine a considerable quantity of Sussexite.
Among this there was some material which did not quite look like the rest and was subjected to an investigation.
This material I will designate A.
After finding it of interest I obtained from my friend and colleague Dr. F. A. Genth a bluish asbestiform mineral from the same locality  this will be designated as material B.
Both appear as stiff rather columnar fibres and effervesce with acid.
But after treatment with dilute HCL a fine silky mass ot fibres remain and these were analyzed.
The needles appeared under the microscope slightly yellowish or colorless whilst the substance in bulk appeared bluish like crocidolite or brown black.
These needles fuse readily before the blowpipe with intumescence to a black globule and behave thus like Sussexite.
But no color is given to the flame so characteristically green in Sussexite.
After extracting with acid whereby A gave 73 asbestos 27 calcite and material B gave 85 asbestos 15 calcite the residue was thoroughly dried at 130C. and then analyzed as follows A.
B. SiO' 5584 5350 Aro 136 FeO 812 MgO r 1958 1458 CaO 1000 662 MnO 479 170 ZnO 459 710 FeO 240 468 HO 320 334 10040 10100 The molecular ratio is formed for SiO'  Mg Ca Fe Zn Mn H O A.
18613 19716 100 106 Mg Ca Fe Zn Mn W SiO SiO'  APFe'  Mg Ca Zn Fe H O B.
17833  01279  16911 Or if Ave add the sesquioxides to the protoxides 17833  100  1016 18190 We have here then two Bisilicates remarkable for the polybasic composition which are either pyroxene or amphibole asbestiform.
I am inclined to classify them as amphibolic.
It is probable that these silicates are in a number of collections under the name of Sussexite with which notably the material A shows much resemblance.
1887.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
49 February 15.
Mr. Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. in the chair.
Twentyfour persons present.
Grampus Rissoanus on the American Coast.
Pi'of.
Heilprin called attention to the recent stranding on the New Jersey coast at Atlantic City of Risso's whale.
Grampus Rissoanus a form readily distinguished from other allied cetaceans by the peculiar slaty lines which are irregularly distributed over the body.
The speaker thought that this was the first instance of this singular Mediterranean species having been recorded from the transAtlantic waters and emphasized the difficulty of drawing lines of delimitation to the oceanic faunas.
The specimen in question was darkslaty in color on the sides verging to black on the back and measured about eleven feet in length.
February 22.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Nineteen persons present.
Origin of the Excretory System in the Earthworm.
Professor Edmund B. Wilson of Bryn Mawr Pa. laid before the Academy an account of his observations on the development of Lumbricus olidus calling especial attention to the remarkable similarity that exists between the development of the nephridia and the origin of the excretory system in the vertebrates.
The gastrula is foi'med by a process of invagination.
Upon the establishment of the germbands they are found to be essentially similar to those of Clepsine ending behind in eight large cells by the continued division of which the bands increase in length as the embryo grows.
Two of these large cells are mesoblasts giving rise to the dissepiments muscles and vessels two are neuroblasts giving rise to the ventral nervecord two are nephroblasts giving rise to the excretory organsand two give rise to cells whose fate could not be determined.
From each of these cells a row of cells extends forwards on the ventral side of the body between the ectoblast and entoblast.
The rows are at first one cell wide but are converted in front into solid cords several cells in thickness.
The principal interest of the development lies in the origin and fate of the rows produced by the neihroblasts  these roAvs are designated as the nephridial rows.
In each somite a solid outgrowth from each nephridial row takes place into the coelom and is ultimately converted into the nephridium of the corresionding side.
Thus the nephridia arise as metameric outgrowths from a solid cord of cells that lies in the somatojleure  and their mode of development is therefore essentially similar to that of the segmental tubes of the vertebrate headkidney or pronephios.
An examination of the origin of the nephroblast demonstrates the fact that it is originally an ectoblastic cell which extends to the surface of the body and is only in rather late stages to be distinguished from other ectoblastic cells by its greater size and by the fact that it sinks below the surface.
It always remains however embedded in the ectoblast and unquestionably is derived from that layer.
The nephridial rows and the nephridia to which they give rise are therefore ectoblastic structures.
This conclusion is believed by Prof Wilson to establish two interesting homologies namely between the nephridial row of Iumbricus and the Wolffian or segmental duct of the vertebrates and between the series of nephridia of annelides and the vertebrate headkidney or pronephros.
It has very recently been shown that in Baja Rana Lacerta guineapig and the rabbit the segmental duct is derived directly from the ectoblast by a mode of development essentially like that of the nephridial row of Lumhricus.
Hatschek Eduard Meyer and Lang have already called attention to the close resemlance between the Wolffian duct of vertebrates and the longitudinal canal that unites the nephridia in the larval Polygordius and in certain adult annelides.
Prof. Wilson's observations taken in connection with those of Meyer supply the embryological proof that the two structures are actually homologous and that the excretory systems of annelides and of vertebrates are constructed upon fundamentally the same type and originate by similar modes of development.
Attention was called to the direct bearing of this result on current theories relating to the origin of the Vertebrata.
March 1.
The President Dr Jos.
Leidy in the chair.
Twentysix persons present.
A paper entitled The Summit Plates in Blastoids Crinoids and Cystids and their morphological Relations By Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer was presented for publication.
The following was ordered to be printed  ON INVERTEBRATES FROM THE EOCENE OF MISSISSIPPI AND ALABAMA.
BY OTTO MEYER.
Ph.
D. Ill the illustrations to the following paper the figures of some insufficiently known species of the Southern OldTertiary are included.
Notes on these are given.
The species referred to are mostly small ones.
All the mentioned material has been collected by me and is in my collection.
 Odostomia Boettgeri n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
4.
Subulate polished.
Nucleus sinistral vertical jartly hidden.
Adult whorls eight with an impressed line below the suture.
Suture distinct.
Mouth subelliptical.
Inner lip with a strong nearly horizontal fold.
At some distance from the outer lip there are within six raised revolving lines.
Vicksburg Miss.
Lower Vicksburgian.
Turbonilla major n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
3.
Nucleus sinistral its axis horizontal its volutions separate.
Adult whorls many subconvex covered with strong transverse ribs and densely spirally striatal.
The spirals do not extend over the ribs.
Mouth subquadrangular.
Inner lips with a strong oblique fold.
Base spirally striated.
Jackson Miss.
Rare.
The more common Turbonilla in Jackson is a form which I should rather put to Turbonilla neglecta Mr. than to the above species.
Compared with T. major it is much smaller and more slender and the spiral striae are scarcely distinct otherwise it is very similar.
DENTITEREBRA n. gen. Turreted  transversely ribbed.
Aperture narrow terminating in a short anterior canal.
Inner lip callous very slightly striate.
Outer lip crenulated internally siiious posteriorly.
Base striated.
On account of its mouth this genus is probably to be placed among the Columbellidae in which family it is conspicuous by its turreted spire and transverse ribs.
It is perhaps to be considered a subgenus of Columbella.
If this is not the right position it may belong to the Pleurotomidae.
Dentiterebra prima n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
2.
The pointed nucleus consists of four volutions.
Five adult whorls are covered by strong transverse ribs eighteen on the bodywhorl  the surface else being smooth.
Base with strong revolving lines which are jjerceptible on the callus of the inner lip.
The inner lip is else without striae or granulations.
Crenulations of the outer lip six.
Suture distinct impressed.
Claiborne Ala.
I found only the figured specimen.
It has the appearance of a young Terebra.
Pleurotoma Aldrichi n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
7 7a 7b.
The nucleus consists of one and a half smooth inflated embryonic whorls.
Adult whorls six they are convex raised below the suture covered by transverse ribs and elevated spiral lines.
Of the spiral lines those on the middle of the whorl are the strongest.
The sinus is above the middle of the whorl.
Aperture less than one third of the shell with rather straight canal.
The young shell shows a simple outer lip and a smooth but not callous inner lip.
The older the shell the moie deposit on the inner lip it has.
Old specimens apparently have strong folds within the outer lip.
Jackson 3Iiss.
I found eight specimens.
The specimens 7 b has longitudinal folds within the outer lips the uppermost of which is the strongest  besides it is somewhat stouter than the others.
I consider it however as an old specimen of the same species for the surface though partially skinned shows the same ornamentation the characteristic nucleus is the same and one of the other specimens shows an indication of the upper fold within the outer lip.
Tornatella volutata n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
ll.
Ovalelongate.
The nucleus consists of one and a half smooth volutions the first volution standing almost vertical and being partly hidden.
Five adult whorls are slightly convex and covered with impressed revolving lines.
These lines are slightly punctuate number about six on each whorl the body whorl excepted where they are numerous and towards the base increase in distinctness and become closer.
Mouth rather narrow.
Outer lip sharp.
Inner lip with a strong fold below the middle and slightly covered by callus.
Suture imjjressed.
Vicksburg 3Iiss.
Higher Vicksburgian.
I found only the figured specimen.
The species is considerably cylindrical and approaches the subgenus Actaeonidea Gabb from the Tertiary of the West Indies.
It lacks however the anterior truncation of the collumella of Actaeonidea.
XTnicardiuml eocenense n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
14 14 a.
Small tumid solid.
Margin subquadrangular rounded anteriorly truncate posteriorly.
Beak turned anteriorly before it a small cordate lunule.
Lunular edge in front of the beak somewhat ex23anded.
Below the beak one tubercular cardinal tooth left valve lateral teeth nearly obsolete.
Anterior muscular impression elongated elliptical posterior impression cordateelliptical.
Pallial impression not entire.
Inside rough.
Margin entire.
Surface with indistinct concentric impressed lines crossed by more distinct radiating lines.
This ornamentation is wanting on the umboneal part and more distinct near the margin.
The radiating lines are slightly more distinct on the posterior slope.
Red Bluff 3fiss.
The only found specimen a left valve shows three sinuations of the pallial line behind.
I have little doubt that this species belongs either to Unicardium d'Orbigny or Fimhriella Stoliczka or is to be placed in their neighbourhood.
These two genera however are not knowai from the Tertiary formation and if the Red Bluff form should prove to be a diffpvent and new genus I jroiwse the name of Cordiula for it.
MIKROLA n. gen.
Minute subtrigonal inaequilateral.
Anterior side rounded posterior side attenuated.
Ligament in a trigonal pit below the beak.
In the right valve this pit is lodged between two compressed cardinal teeth.
Left valve without distinctly developed teeth.
Muscular impressions oval
Pallial line sinuated behind.
Surface concentrically ribbed.
Margin entire.
At first sight the genus has much resemblance to Spheniojysis Sandberger especially the left valve.
But the dentition of the right valve is entirely different and the genus may even not belong to the Myidae.
I cannot discover any gaping of the valves.
Mikrola mississippiensis n. sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
16 16a 16b.
Beaks almost obsolete.
The concentric ribs of the surface end at the posterior terminal slope.
IJmbonial part smooth.
Red Bluff Miss.
I found three doublevalves of this species which varies very iQuch in the size and number of the concentric ribs.
While one of the specimens shows only three large and distant concentric ribs another one is covered by about nine ribs.
Turritella carinata H. C. Lea.
PI.
Ill fig.
1 la.
Turritella carinataH.C.e.3.
 Am.
Journ.
Science vol.
XL Jan. 1841. p 96 pi.
i fig.
10.
Fig.
1 represents the largest specimen which I have from Claiborne and fig.
la is a specimen which shows two of the round embryonic whorls.
The name of this species is not preoccupied by Turritella carinata I. Lea because this latter species is apparently identical with a form previously described.
Eulima lugubris Lea.
sp.
PI.
Ill fig.
8.
Pasithea lugubris Lea L Lea.
Contrib.
to Geology 1833 p. loi pi.
4 fig.
Si.
Eulima aciculata Lea.
sp.
PI.
III.
fig.
5.
Pasithea aciculata Lea L Lea.
Contrib.
to Geology 1S33 p. 102 pi.
4 fig.
82.
The specimen which I figure is from Jackson Miss.
It is apparently identical with Lea's Claiborne species.
Pasithea guttula Lea.
PI.
Ill fig.
6.
Pasithea guttula Lea L Lea.
Contrib.
to Geology 1833 p. 104 pi.
4 fig.
86.
Cylichna Dekayi Lea.
sp.
var
PI.
Ill fig.lO.
Bulla Dekayi Lea L Lea.
Contrib.
to Geology 1833 p 200 pi.
6 fig.
215.
The specimen which I figure is from Jackson Miss.
It is perhaps to be considered a variety of the Claiborne species.
Tornatina crassiplica Conr.
sp.
Pi.
Ill fig.
9.
Bulla crassiplica Conr.
Journ.
Ac.
Philad.
I 2nd Ser. PI.
113 pi.
11 fig.
5.
Ringicula mississippiensis Conr.
Pi.
Ill fig.
12.
Ringicula Jitississippiensis Conr.
Journ.
Ac.
Philad.
I 2nd Ser.
p. J17 PI.
iS fig.
36.
Dentalium subcompressum Mr. PI.
Ill fig.
13 13a.
D. itibcotnpressum Mr. Am.
Journ.
Sci.
I885 XXIX p. 462.
D. subcotnpressuvtAx Bull.
I. Geol.
Surv.
Ala. 1886 p. 64 PI.
3 fig.
3 3a.
Fig.
13 represents a specimen with complete posterior end showing also in this respect the great similarity of this species to Dentalium comjyressuvi Mr. from the German Oligocene.
Tellina eburneopsisl Conr.
PL III fig.
15a lob.
.Tellina eburneopsis Conr.
Am.
Journ.
Conch.
IS65 p. 13S PI.
10 fig.
i7.
Conrad describes this species from the socalled locality Entreprise Miss.
The specimen which I figure is from Jackson Miss.
Fig.
15b gives the profile of the posterior side showing the emargination at the posterior fold.
NOTES.
The following mistake is to be corrected.
I described a specimen from Claiborne as  Crucibulum antiquimi Bull.
1 Geol.
Surv.
Ala. 1886 p. 6S pi.
1 fig.
11.
Having recently carefully cleaned the outside of this specimen it proved to be a Balanus with preserved operculum.
In an article Beitrag zur kenntniss des Alttertiaers von Mississippi und Alabama I have given p. 16 17 a list of Foraminifera of the eocene of Mississippi and Alabama which I collected and which were determined by Mr. A. WoodAvard.
The following species also collected by me and determined by Mr. Woodward have to be added to this list.
Clavulina cijluidrica Hantken  Matthews Landing Ala. Claiborne Ala. Jackson Miss.
 Wautubbee Miss.
Cristellaria calcar Linne sp.
 Matthews Landing Ala. Jackson Cristellaria cultrata Montfort sp Vicksburg Miss.
Lower Yicksburgian.
Textularia aggluthians d'Orb.
 Jackson Miss.
Polymorphina oblonga d'Orb.
 Jackson Miss.
Polymorphma problema d'Orb.
 Jackson Miss.
MilioUna agglutinans d'Orb.
 sp Claiborne Ala. TruncaUdina lobatula Walker and Jacob sp.
 Jackson Miss.
Truncatulimi dutem2lei d'Orb.
 Jackson Miss.
Pulvinulina eanariensisf d'Orb Jackson Miss.
Nonionina depremida Walker and Jacob sp.
 Wautubbee Miss.
Explanation of Plate III.
Fig.
1.
Turritella carinata H. C. Lea nat.
size Claiborne Ala.
Fig.
la. 
   showing two embryonic whorls  Claiborne Ala.
Fig.
2.
Dentiterebra prima n. gen. et n. sp Claiborne Ala.
Fig.
3.
Tiirbonilla major n.
sp.
 Jackson Miss.
Fig.
4.
Ododomia Boettgeri n.
sp.
 Vicksburg Miss.
Fig.
5.
Eulima aciculata Lea.
sp.
 Jackson Miss.
Fig.
6.
Pasithea guttula Lea  Claiborne Ala.
Fig.
7.
7 7a 7b.
Pleurotoma Aldrichl n.
sp.
 Jackson Miss.
Fig.
8.
Eidima lugubris Lea  Claiborne Ala.
Fig.
9.
Tornatina crassiplica Conr.
sp.
 Vicksburg Miss.
Jahresber.
d. Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft Frankfurt a. M. 1886.
2 plates.
Fig.
10.
Cylichna Dehayi Lea sp.
var
Jackson Miss.
Fig.
11.
Tornatella volutata n.
sp.
 Vicksburg Miss.
Fig.
12.
Bmgicula mississippiensis Conr.
 Vicksburg Miss.
Lower Vicksburgian.
Fig.
13.
Dentalium subcompressum M.Y.
 Yichshurg Miss.
Fig.
13a.
The same specimen view of posterior end.
Fig.
14 14a.
Unicardiumt eocenense n.
sp.
 Red Bluff Miss.
Fig.
15a 15b.
Tellina eburneopsis
Conr.
 Jackson Miss.
Fig.
16 16a 16a'.
MiJcrola mississippiensis n. gen. et.
n.
sp.
 Red Bluff Miss.
March 8.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Fifteen persons present.
The deaths of Jos.
Wilson M. D. and Bernard Persh members were announced.
March 15.
Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair.
Seventeen persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication A List of the Carices of Pennsylvania By Thomas C Porter.
A Prodrome of a Memoir on Animal Locomotion.
By Harrison Allen M. D. On the First and Second Sets of Hair Germs Developed in the Skin of Foetal Cats.
Prof. Ryder remarked that in a foetal Kitten three and onehalf inches in length which he had examined the germs of certain hair follicles in the skin were more prominent than the great majority of other hair germs.
These larger hair germs were especially obvious on the back and on the top of the head where they formed very slight superficial elevations of the epidermis.
Along the middle region of the back and head these more prominent hair germs formed linear series or rows which seemed to correspond somewhat in position to the arrangement of the stripes of color on the back of the adults as seen in the Ocelot and the black and greystriped variety of the domestic cat or grimalkin.
On the sides and on the limbs the linear arrangement of these larger hair germs disappeared entirely and they were distributed in an irregular manner pretty uniformly amongst the smaller or less developed hair germs which were everywhere far more numerous being very probably the germs of the Avoolly coat or underpelt.
It is possible that these larger hair germs represent the rudiments of hairs which are more particularly sensory in function and which like the vibrissse about the snout and the groups of tactile hairs above the eyes and the two groups on the cheeks of many mammals are more richly supplied with sensory nerves than others.
The distribution of such tactile hairs in the Mammalia was also considered by the speaker who referred to the studies of Eschricht Stannius and his own on the distribution of such tactile hairs on the snouts of the foetuses of various genera of Cetaceans in which group it had been ascertained that they furnished very good characters diagnostic of species.
It was also suggested in support of the view that larger hair germs on the body and head of the foetal cat were sensory in function since they seemed to be arranged in conformity with the color areas on the back which as had been pointed out by Prof. Harrison Allen were the recipients of special branches of the superior twigs of the intercostal rami of the spinal nerves in certain animals  Tamias.
Hairs with a special function have also been found in other regions in the skin of mammals  as for example certain hairs described by Schobl on the interdigital wing membranes of bats.
Upon reflection however the preceding view of the facts bearing upon the development of two kinds of hair germs in the skin of the foetal cat were not wholly satisfactory.
It was therefore deemed best to subject the skin of the foetus in question to still more searching scrutiny.
A portion of the skin from the top of the cranium of the foetus was therefore carefully pealed off stained in borax carmine and cut into sections and mounted as a series.
This series of sections revealed several very interesting points which it Avas impossible to make out from a more superficial examination.
It Avas found that the epidermis at this stage was only five or six layers of cells deep and that there were two very sharply defined types of hair germs growing downwards from it into the corium.
The larger and more advanced of these hair germs or follicles were very much thicker and larger than the others and had penetrated more deeply into the underlying corium than the less developed ones.
At the point where the larger germs joined the epidermis the latter was thickened so as to form the elevations marking the positions of the larger hair germs when viewed from the surface.
Further study also showed that the rudiment of a hair was Avell advanced in the larger follicles while in the smaller ones only the first traces of the hair bulb had been developed without as yet having given rise to the beginning of a cornified hair shaft.
In both kinds of follicles the rudiments of sebaceous glands had been developed from the sides of their necks though a lumen or cavity had hardly as yet been developed within them.
The rete mucosum consisted of of scarcely more than a single layer of rounded cells of this layer the younger developing follicles are principally composed.
These observations show that there are two distinct types of hair germs developed in the skin of the foetal cat one of which is much more advanced in development and far less numerous at the same period than the other.
It has also been shown that the larger germs have a certain orderly linear arrangement in some regions as for instance along the dorsal region.
The questions which now present themselves in addition to the interpretation already suggested relate to the nature of these different kinds of hair germs.
It seemed to him not improbable as surmised by Professor Leidy that the larger germs may be those of the contour hairs while the smaller ones represent the germs of the finer hairs of the under pelt or woolly coat.
Yet this view does not dispose of the question raised by the fact of the orderly arrangement of the larger germs along the back  nor are they numerous enough to be the germs of the contour hairs.
It may be that this orderly arrangement relates to an ancestral condition in which the hairs were fewer and while the ancestral mammalian type was still nearly coldblooded.
This view is supported by the fact that the temperature of the blood of the most reptilian of the mammalia viz. the Ornithodelphia is considerably below that of the Didelphia and Monodelphia and that in at least one of these forms.
Echidna the spines which represent hairs are ai'ranged in rows.
In the other genus Ornithorhynchus the contour hairs are flat the Tinderpelt of avooI hairs being very densely set while the contour hairs are not.
AVhether the quills or spines of Echidna are to be regarded as having descended by development from contour hairs is not known but it is to be admitted that hairs of that type are most likely to have been developed into quills or spines since they generally project above the level of the woolly coat and have a much heavier shaft which is always nearly straight and not crimped.
Such an origin may with much show of probability be ascribed to the quills of the porcupine.
In a number of mammalian orders there is a marked tendency toward a dorsal longitudinal striation or linear alternation of bands or dots of color and in a numler of cases this striation is well marked only in the young.
This seems to be more than a mere coincidence and probably indicates that in the primitive or ancestral Mammalia such a pattern was widely prevalent if not universal.
On the sides on the other hand there is a tendency toward alternating vertical colors with transverse bars on the limbs.
This is a wellmarked feature in the tiger zebra and gnu.
Later on it appears that these bars have broken up into dots giving rise to the dappled or the spotted appearance of such forms as the leopard giraffe and horse.
These features have a very important phylogenetic significance and point to an ancestral form in which the color areas were disposed in bands.
Looking about amongst the lower groups it is in Reptilia alone that we frequently find striping both longitudinal and transverse and in thaf it is now admitted by some eminent authorities that the Mammalia are descended from the Reptilia Therojnoiyha some explanation is afforded of the prevalent type of color marking in the young of many feral Mammalian forms which are not striped when mature.
The dorsal longitudinal rows of hair germs in the skin of the foetal cat also aflTord confirmatory evidence.
Their coincidence with the bands of color and precocious development indicates that they are remnants of a more primitive hairy coat.
Their linear arrangement makes it possible to compare them with the linear and longitudinal arrangement of the feathers in birds and of scales in reptiles.
In that hairs of mammals feathers of birds and the corneous scutes of reptiles are closely related structures and developed from homologous layers of the epidermis in these different classes it is highly interesting to discover that the set of hair germs which are the first to develop on the back of the foetal cat also show the primordial linear arrangement of scales and feathers as observed on the backs of reptiles and birds.
