Crotalocrinus  ITS STRUCTURE AND ZOOLOGICAL POSITION.
BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER.
The tyie of Crinoids that has been described under the name Crotalocrintis is one of the most extraordinary yet brought to light from palaeozoic rocks.
Its netformed radial appendages so widely different from those of any other known Echinoderm and resembling rather the fronds of a Bryozoan than the arms of a Crinoid have long made it a puzzle to naturalists and the efforts of all writers up to the jDreseut time  ourselves included  have contributed but little toward any satisfactory determination of its systematic relations.
Though so highly differentiated in its structure the genus is confined to the upper Silurian so far as known.
It ha been found in the island of Gothland Sweden where it was first noticed by Hisinger in 1828 and afterwards described by him as a Cyathoerinus in 1837.
It was also found at Dudley England by Parkinson in 1808 who called it the Turhan or Shropshire Encriiiite  and it was redescribed by J. S. Miller in 1821 as Cyathoerinus rugosus
No trace of it has ever been discovered at any other locality.
Good specimens are rare and diflScult to obtain so thai the facilities for its study outside of the countries where it occurs have hitherto been practically nil.
The arm structure was not understood until 1854 when JohannesMiiller figured and described under the name xinthocvinus Loveni the principal Swedish species although Austin had established the genus Crotalocrinus in 1843 for the English form without figure and with a very meagre description.
Angelin's elaborate work on the Swedish Crinoids in 1878 contained numerous beautiful figures of apparently perfect specimens and seemed to give the most ample illustrations of every part elucidating the structure of this curious fossil.
Upon these descriptions and figures and without any opportunity to study even a single specimen we prepared our descrijtion of the genus and discussions relating to it as they ajipeared in Part III of our Revision of the Paljeocrinoidea.
Not long after the publication of this work we found reason to believe that our interpretation of the structure and affinities of Crotalocrinus was erroneous and that much of what we had written on the sulject was altogether worthless.
During a visit of one of us to Europe last winter he had an opportunity of examining the best known English specimens in the British Museum and other collections and by considerable effort succeeded in obtaining some excellent material for more detailed study both from England and Sweden.
Besides this we have enjoyed the unexpected privilege of studying a number of the original specimens used by Angelin.
For this we are indebted to Dr. Gustav Lindstrom Curator of the Palisontological Department of the National Museum at Stockholm who on being informed of our perplexity regarding this genus upon his own motion sent us these and other specimens with liberty to study them at our leisure and also furnished us most important information in the way of drawings and observations upon other specimens.
It was an act of thoughtful kindness for which we find it difficult to adequately express our gratitude and if this paper shall be found to be of any value to our fellow naturalists it will be in a very large measure due to the facilities thus generously afforded us.
In the Revision of the Palseocrinoidea Part III pp.
140143 we referred Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus to the Articulata and at various places pp.
18 19 56 64 65 based some of our arguments as to the character of this suborderHipon the supposed structure of these two genera.
On pages 18 and 19 of Part III we stated that In the Crotalocrinidae which include Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus the whole ventral surface in what appear to be the best preserved specimens is composed of strong convex plates without definite arrangement.
In these specimens there is no central plate nor proximals nor traces of ambulacra Icon.
Crin.
Suee. PI.
VII fig.
3a PL VIII figs.
6 7 and PI.
XXV fig.
2.
 there are however other figures of Angelin apparently of a closely allied species ibid.
PL XVII fig.
3a in which the plates paving the ventral surface are much more delicate and consist of a central plate large proximals and several rows of covering pieces without the intervention of either anambulacral or interradial plates.
It would be difficult with the utmost stretch of our imagination to recognize in the former figures either proximals or central piece which as admitted by Carpenter are present in all these crinoids and we think there can be little doubt that the two sets of figures represent different parts of the animal the one the disk the other the vault and that the one covered the other.
A similar opinion was evidently entertained by Zittel Handb.
d. Palaeont.
I p. 357 who stated that Crotalocrinus possessed five 'grosse Oralilatten bald unter der Decke bald ausserlich sichtbar.'
According to our interpretation the calyx of the Crotalocriuidae extends ventrally to the oral pole and the ambulacra central piece and proximals are subtegminal covered by interradial plates which extend out to the lower rows of covering plates and side pieces Icon.
Criu.
Suec PI.
VIII fig.
6 and PL XXV fig.
2.
A similar condition probably prevailed in the Ichthyocrinidae with which the Crotalocrinidae have close affinities.
As our reference of these genera to the Articulata was based exclusively upon the figures especially those of Angelin it will be well to examine them now in the light of the knowledge we have since obtained.
The only figure of those quoted that gives the vault structure correctly is fig.
3a on Plate XVII.
It shows very plainly four large proximals and a large plate toward the posterior side which according to the terminology we then employed we regarded as a central plate.
The proximals are elongatenailshaped and two of them touch the incurved ends of the upper faces of the first radials while two others abut against a small interradial plate and the larger posterior plate against small plates around the anus.
Within the reentering angles between every two of the large plates there are several series of small jieces ramifying toward the arm ojenings and laterally connected.
Dr. Lindstrom has sent us a very carefully prepared drawing of a specimen which he thinks is the original of the above mentioned figure.
This is reiroduced by us on PL XX fig.
4.
The structure appears substantially the same but the details are better defined in this figure than in the former showing that the proximals touch the fii'st radial only at one side while at the other sides one two or three small interradial plates are interposed.
Within the five reentering angles formed by the five orals central plate and four large proximals rest five comparatively large radialdomeplates Avhich are followed by several rows of small alternating pieces.
That the latter are covering plates which were continued along the arms is well shown in both figures.
A totally different structure was exhibited by figs.
6 and 7 PL VIII of Crotalocrinns pulcher and by fig.
3a PL VII and fig.
2 PL XXV of Enallocrinus scriptus all purporting to show the plates of the ventral side completely.
In all of these figures the arrangeThe socalled ' proximals and central plate as we have shown elsewhere are now regarded by us as representing the five oral plates the central plate being the posterior oral modified and displaced by anal struclures.
ment of the plates covering the visceral cavity is extremely irregular scarcely any two plates being alike.
There is neither a central plate nor anything that might be compared with the four large proximals and no plates corresponding to or which might be identified as covering plates until the region of the arms is reached.
In PI.
VIII fig.
6 the plates appear ornamented by small nodes up to the second bifurcation of the ray and a similar ornamentation covers the anal structure of which portions are visible.
This ornamentation is so marked .and gives to this part of the figure such a totally different aspect from the higher branches of the rays in which it is entirely absent that we regarded it as a vault from underneath which the covering plates emerged.
The whole figure gives one the impression that it was made from a very perfect specimen in which the minutest details of structure were exceptionally well preserved.
The other figure7on the same plate exhibits a similar vault but with less elaboration of ornament and surface details.
Covering plates are here visible only upon the parts which extend beyond the limits of the calyx nor is there any trace of proximals or central plate.
Figure 3a of PI.
VII which is said to represent  jars perisomatis ventralis  of Enallocrinus scriptus shows a complete uninterrupted covering of the whole ventral surface of the calyx and portions of the rays.
As in the other figures the plates are wholly wanting in definite arrangement no summit plates can be discovered and the covering pieces as before begin at the periphery of the calyx.
Another figure of the same species apparently from a most beautifully perfect specimen to judge from the drawing is given on PI.
XXV fig.
2.
It is stated in the explanation of the plate to be the same specimen as fig.
1 seen from above and there is no reference to any imperfection or restoration.
It appears to show all the plates of the ventral covering from the center of the summit to a long distance out upon the arms.
In this figure as in the preceding there is a complete absence of any regular plan of arrangement among the plates forming the ventral part of the calyx.
It would be impossible by any degree of imagination to identify among them anything like summit plates or covering pieces the latter commencing beyond the limits of the calyx.
The plates are generally represented as nodose and those toward the middle as the largest but beyond this there is nothing in the figure to distinguish any of them.
It was upon the information derived from these figures that we based our conclusion  hasty as it may have been  that there were twointeguments in these genera one above the other  one representing the perisome containing the ambulacra the other a vault of iriegular pieces and to some degree pliable.
We could not see how two such totally different structures as those shown by PI.
XVII fig.
3a and PI.
VIII fig.
6 could represent the same elements in one and the same genus and we therefore adopted the idea of a double covering as the only solution we could find although after considerable hesitation feeling that such an arrangement was quite anomalous and without a parallel elsewhere.
We were also influenced in no small degree by the fact that Prof. Zittel who had the opportunity to see the Swedish collections interpreted the structures in a similar way. We could not of course imagine that such magnificent figures as are represented in Angelin's work in the absence of any explananation to that effect could be wholly imagiiiary as to the most important parts of the structures illustrated.
The fact is however as we now know that all these important figures are to a large extent fictitious  that the middle portions of them where the summit plates and covering pieces of the vault shoidd have been found were not shown in the specimens at all but were filled in by the artist according to his own motion of their probable structure.
The only specimen in the National Museum at Stockholm which shows any part of the vault structure of Crotalocrinus aside from the original of fig.
3a PI.
XVII has been sent to us for examination.
It is evidently the original from which fig.
7 PI.
VIII was composed  for Dr. Lindstrom informs us that there is no other which can be regarded as the type of that figure.
It shows the lanceolate areas and covering plates along the arms beyond the calyx very well but 1 Handl.
d. Pal.
Vol.
i p. 357.
2 It is but justice to tlie distinguished Swedish paleeontologist to remark tliat his worl.
 on tlie Crinoids of Sweden was not complete at the time of his death.
His descriptions seem to be rather preliminary notes niaile for his own use preparatory to a more detailed study.
These were collected after his death and publislied together with twentynine plates illustrating them under the direction of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Sweden.
It is not strange under such circumstances there should be errors and in pointing out some of them in this paper we have no intention of discrediting a work which has been of great service to palaeontology by bringing to notice one of the most magnificent cnnoidal faunae ever discovered.
the middle is entirely broken away leaving however partially in place a few plates around the anal opening.
There is nothing in the specimen from which the form and arrangement of the summit plates could be even inferred.
Of fig.
3a PI.
VII Dr. Lindstrom writes   The figure is not correct.
The central plates are totally wanting as in all specimens ol Enallocrinus I have seen and there are no vestiges left to infer its true nature.
There can be no satisfactory drawing made of it.
Among the specimens sent us from Stockholm was one labeled  VII 3  which we suppose to be one of the originals from which Angelin's PI.
VII fig.
3a Avas in part deduced.
We have figured it to illustrate our description of Ennllocrinus PI.
XX figs.
Qab and we learn that there are no other specimens of Enallocrinus which show any more of the summit than this.
As to fig.
2 PI.
XXV Dr. Lindstrom writes I cannot conceive how such a drawing could have been executed out of it.
The upper side is so badly preserved that no good figure can be taken.
The original of the splendid figure 6 PI.
VIII  Crotalocrinus pulcher  which was from the Markliuean Museum at Upsala cannot be found and we are therefore unable to give any particulars aljout it.
We have not the least doubt however that this figure which is stated to be enlarged how much we do not know is even a greater fiction than the others.
In our own specimen of C. pulcher from Sweden PI XIX figs la b c we succeeded in exposing enough of the summit while cleaning around the ventral tube to show that it is composed of covering pieces interradials and summit plates just like the Cambridge specimen PI.
XIX fig.
3.
These four figures thus shown to be to a large extent incorrect and misleading were the ones on which we entirely relied in the statement above quoted from Part III of the Revision.
That statement was critized by Dr. P. Herbert Carpenter in a paper  On the structure of Crotalocrinus in which he asserts that  in their our statement that ' there is no central piece nor proximals nor traces of ambulacra ' in the figures of Crotalocrinus pulcher and Enallocrinus scriptus they appear to me to be seriously in error.
 It must be observed first that in this portion of the paragraph quoted we were speaking solely of the vault proper and not of the rays and arms beyond the limits of the calyx.
We distinctly refer to the existence of  covering plates and side pieces to which 1 Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1886 p. 339.
25 the iiiterradials extend  p. 19 and on page 143 in our diagnosis of the Crotalocrinidae we stated   Ambulacral furrow deep ramifying with the arm branches covered by alternating plates and bordered by side pieces.
The ambulacra and covering pieces over them in the arms which those figures all show were therefore clearly recognized by us always.
It is worthy of note however that Carpenter while pronouncing us  seriously in error  in saying that there is no central piece nor proximals nor traces of ambulacra in the figures of Angelin above referred to does not undertake to point out the presence or location of either one of those elements upon the figures in question although he expresses on p. 403 his belief  that the small covering plates of CrotaloGrimis rugosus are the representatives in a smaller crinoid ' of the large rigid plates' shown in figures 6 and 7     while I shall also continue to believe until the contrary is demonstrated that the central plate and proximals are among the irregular pieces occupying the oral pole in the originals of these two figures.
Neither does he inform us that the figures themselves are totally incorrect and fanciful although at that time fresh from an examination of the type specimens at Stockholm.
Carpenter says oj cit.
p. 399 that  while the summit plates are clear and well defined in some species and genera there are other closely allied forms in which these plates are almost or entirely undisthiguishable among the large number of plates to be found in the vault.
I will only mention one instance in illustration of this statement viz.
Cyathocrinus iowensis and C. multibrachiatus both of which are figured by Wachsmuth and Sjringer Revision Part.
Ill p. 65 PL IV fig.
6 and PI.
V fig.
7 the former with the latter without any distinct summit plates. 
These two figures as the explanation shows represent specimens in which the summit plates were in an imperfect condition indicating a process of resorption or modification going on and were expressly given for the purpose of illustrating this fact.
The summit plates as we stated on page 49 Rev.
Pt.
Ill  are in their arrangement as a rule very regular and only disturbed by the anal tube.
We stated further on the same page that the apparent disturbance in some species with a large number of arms was due to a misconception of the plates.
It is true that in some forms the summit plates are not so readily distinguished as in others and there are some genera  C. rugosus appears generally to be a much larger species than C. pulcher.
J mostly Silurian of different families in which the vault is composed of an integument of innumerable minute pieces in Avhich they are undistinguishable and in our opinion do not exist.
But we know of no other case of a vault composed of well defined and even ornamented plates in which in the same genus there was a total absence of plan of arrangement in one species and well defined summit plates and covering pieces in another.
It seemed to us impossible that the summit plates and ambulacra which were so distinct and conspicuous in the one specimen should be entirely absent in another species of the same genus  and the only solution of the mystery which we could arrive at was that in the latter they must be subtegminal and that the covering of irregular pieces shown in the four figures above quoted was broken away in the specimen which exhibited the summit plates.
 As we have said before we had no opportunity to study the Crotalocrinidae from actual specimens when we prepared the Revision.
It required but a single glance at the specimens from Dudley and Gothland coming under our observation lately to show us that our conception of the structure and relations of Crotalocrinus and its congener was completely erroneous and that our views respecting the subtegminal summit plates and double covering are without foundation in the facts.
We now renounce them altogether and all conclusions or arguments based upon the supposed existence of these structures are hereby withdrawn.
The same inspection of specimens that disclosed to us our error revealed with equal clearness the real nature of those plates and left not the least necessity for inferring the existence of summit plates among the irregularly arranged vaults of Angelin's restorations.
While it is of course unpleasant to be obliged thus to correct descriptions and repair arguments upon which we have laid considerable stress we regret it in this case the less because the result at which we have arrived regarding the systematic position of Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus confirms in a most satisfactory manner the validity of the great groups which we have recognized as subdividing  The references to these figures in Part III of the Revision were unfortunately mixed up in the printing.
They should be corrected as follows on page 64 7th line from bottom for  PI.
6  read  PL 8  and for  figs.
15 and 25  read figs.
2 and 75   and in the 6th line from bottom for PI.
13  read  PL 8. 
On p. 65 6th line from top for  PI 6  read  P.
8. 
We also misunderstood Angelin's fig.
15 PI.
25 and Joh.
Miillers' fig.
10 PI.
8 and our references to them should therefore be ignored.
the palaeozoic crinoids and proves that while the groups themselves are entirely correct our error consisted simply in a wrong understanding of the fiimily which led us to assign it to a group to which it does not belong.
Let us now proceed to ascertain to what group Crotalocrinus should be assigned.
We established the suborder Articulata to include the grouj defined by us under the family name Ichthyocrinidae with the addition of Crotalocrinns and Enallocrwus Revision III p. 140.
It is clear from what we now know of their structure that the two latter cannot remain among the Articulata as that suborder has been defined by us.
 There is no doubt that Crotalocrinus possesses some characters belonging to each of the three groups which we introduced in the third part of the Revision.
It resembles the Articulata in the peculiar articulation of the arms.
In the arrangement of some of its calvx plates it bears a very close relation to the Inadunata especially Cyathocrinus to which genus J. S. Miller referred it.
Like that it has three rings of plates the upper one including a single anal plate.
A casual glance at the structures succeeding these would lead one to think them somewhat similar to the unconnected rays of the Inadunata but a more careful study will show that they are constructed upon the same princijle as the same parts in some groups of the Camarata.
They are actually neither true radials nor free arm plates but as in the Platycrinidae represent a transition between them.
As in Platyerinus there are but two primary radials the upper one a small triangular axillary to both sides of which the secondary radials are attached resting both against its sloping sides and upon the first radial.
They are overlaid by the tertiary radials of which the lower ones often in a similar way rest upon the secondary radials and the first primary.
All these plates in a most peculiar and unique manner are solidly fitted together with each other and the first primary radial and have at their ventral face a wide deep diverging groove arched by strong rigid covering plates with a large tubular cavity underneath which in reality forms a part of the cavity of the calyx like in the free radial appendages in some forms of the Platycrinidae and Actino The actual discovery by us of the disk of Taxocriniis witli an external mouth which we have elsewhere described has settled all debate as to the summit structure of the Ichthyocrinidae.
criuidae.
The mode of insertion of the higher radials upon the first primary is similar to that found in Pterotocrinus PI.
XIX fig.
6 and Marsupiocrinus PI XIX fig.
7 and also Angelin's PI.
XXII figs.
1 and 28 PI.
XXVII fig.
4 and is upon the very same principle that prevails in the Platycrinidae generally.
A further striking resemblance to the Platycrinidae is to be observed in the structure of the vault.
We give for comparison figures of three of the most perfect vaults of Crotalocrinus ever found.
Fig.
4 on PI.
XIX is from the Swedish specimen already described as the original of Angelin's PI.
XVII fig.
3a.
Fig.
3 is from a specimen formerly in the Fletcher collection at Dudley but now belonging to Cambridge University.
It differs somewhat from the others in the form of the four smaller orals which are nearly equilateral instead of clavate and in having a few more interradials.
Fig.
2.
is from a Dudley specimen in our own collection.
We can see enough of the vault in our specimen of G. pulcher from Gothland to show that it is built upon the same plan as in the three specimens of C. rugosus illustrated but it cannot be exposed sufficiently to afford a good figure without mutilating the specimen more than is justifiable.
Taking all these facts together the vault of Crotalocrimis seems to have been composed of well developed oral plates four proximals and a central large interradials several anal plates with anus in form of a subcential opening or a tube and covering plates.
The latter are solidly inserted in the vault between the other plates so as to form a part of the wall contrary to the Inadunata in Avhich the covering plates and the ambulacra generally rest lpon the edges of the other vault plates.
Taking now for comparison the vault of Marsnpiocrinus tennesseejisis PI.
XIX fig.
7 we find the same arrangement of oi'als the same solid covering pieces incorporated into and forming part of the vault originating at the reentering angles of the five orals and passing outward to the arm bases  we also find a system of interradial and anal plates substantially like that of the Cambridge specimen of Crotalocrinus PI.
XX fig.
.3.
Indeed if we had the vaults alone of these two specimens under examination it would not be a very easy matter to point out why they might not belong to the same generic type.
Certainly no one can look at the two figures and not be entirely convinced that they represent the same plan of summit structure.
And if we then compare the parts above the first radials in the two forms there cannot be the slightest doubt that they belong to the same group and that that group is the Camarata.
It might indeed be fairly said that the calyx of Crotalocritius in all that determines its subordinal rank is nothing more than a dicyclic Marsupiocrinus.
The mode of union of the plates in the dorsal cup is also somewhat similar in the tw'O genera.
There are in both of them along the suture lines small conical pits which penetrate a short distance inward but do not pass through the test PI.
XIX fig.
5  the inner half of the apposed faces is jjeculiarly striated indicating a sort of syzygial union.
On the other hand the vast multiplication of arms with their lateral connection into a network constitutes a wide differentiation of this type from any other group of the Camarata and is without a parallel among crinoids generally.
But this is a character which does not affect the fundamental plan of structure which unites it unquestionably with the Camarata.
Another very remarkable character of this fjimily is the perforation of the higher radials and arm joints by a dorsal or axial canal which in the higher radials is very large ramifying to the arms and in Crotalocrinus extends to their extremities.
The canals of each ray unite into one on the inner surface of the first radials and pass downward toward the base.
This perforation and the fact that the arm joints are united also by muscles instead of ligaments only distinguishes the family sharply from all other Camarata.
It was this mainly that led us to place them among the Articulata not knowing the solid structure of the vault.
The arms in this group must have possessed a higli degree of flexibility being found sometimes closely folded together lengthwise often spread out horizontally  even dropping over the calyx  and sometimes compactly inrolled for a considerable distance from the ends as shown in our figure PI.
XIX fig.
la.
There is one point in Crotalocrinus which is not clear to us and on which our specimens do not seem to throw much light.
Johannes Miiller gives the following description of the ventral structure of the arms. 
Dieser Canal speaking of the ventral furrow along the the arm joints ist queriiber von kleinen Pliittchen verdeckt welche meist alternirend in einander greifen.
Zu den Seiten stehen auf der Volarseite der Glieder die Ambulacra einfassend iiusserst zarte Pinnulae oder schmale .Saumpliittchen von denen mehrere 34 auf die Liinge eines Gliedes kommen.
Diese Pinnulae sind unge1 Ueher den Ban der Echinod.
Abh.
Bed.
Akad.
d. Wissenscli.
1853 p. 189. ffliedert nur an dev Basis scheint sich zuweilen ein Stiickchen abzusetzeii.
Die Hohe der Piimulae gleicht am breiteren Theil der Hand der Dicke der Glieder.
In the specimens which we have examined the small alternating plates which cover the ventral furrow are very plainly seen but we find no trace of the socalJed pinnules or saumpliittchen which were figured and described by Miiller and Angelin.
It is evident that the alternating inner plates covering the ventral furrow are the saumpldttchen or covering pieces and not the OMer ones along the lateral margins of the furrow which if they exist at all probably are adambulacral plates  they cannot be pinnules in the ordinary sense for there are according to Miiller 3 to 4 to each armjoint.
In one of our specimens PI XIX figs la b high up along the arms the covering plates are perfectly seen in place and there appear at their sides in some places along the margin of the furrows what seem like serrated edges several to a joint and it may be that Miiller and Angelin took these edges which rise somewhat above the level of the covering plates for pinnules.
If these are the structures figured by Miiller and Angelin Bau.
d. Echinod.
PI.
VIII figs.
7 and 8  and Icon.
Crin.
Suec PL XXV figs.
19 19a then the projecting parts are mostly broken away in our specimens and in all others we have seen.
The arms of the species named by Miiller Anthocr'mus Loveni  but which Angelin considered to be a synonym of Crotalocrinus pulcher  were described by him as resembling the five leaves of a flower which when spread out would not connect but when closed were folded up and overlapped each other.
It is possible that this is the case in that species and in fact his crosssection  Op.
cit.
PI.
VIII fig.
4 clearly indicates it.
But we have had before us three specimens from Sweden and one from England considered to be C. rugosus all having the arms completely spread in some cases bending downward and in these the arms are certainly in lateral contact not only within the rays but continuously all around.
Also the crosssection of the arms of this species given in Murchison's Siluria 3rd Ed.
p. 247 fig.
4a shows the continuous connection of the arms and how they fold in upon themselves when closed.
The specimen figured in PI.
XX fig.
4 which in our opinion is not G. rugosus but an undescribed species represents a form in which the rays may have been disconnected as in C. pulcher.
It differs widely from Ijoth species in the first radials which are excavated and have large limblike projections deeply incurved between the bases of the rays.
This form which occurs also at Dudley associated with C. Tugosus is usually labeled as such in collections.
The reticulate arm structure which distinguishes Crotalocrinus from all other crinoids is its most interesting character.
The arms are deeper from the dorsal to the ventral side than they are wide they extend to a great length and bifurcate just often enough and at such intervals in C. rugosus to fill up the sjDaces necessary to form a complete circle with the arms in lateral contact out to the periphery and the number of branches in the adult specimen when perfect must have been enormous.
In our specimen of C. rugosxis PI.
XIX fig.
1 at the height of the fifteenth joint there are fortjrami to each ray and this is not more than one third their full length so that the number of ultimate divisions would amount in this specimen to at least five or six hundred.
The joints at the same height are of the same length and the sutures are in the same line all around so that they form regular concentric circles.
Each joint has tvo lateral projections given ofi'from the middle part of each side which meet with those of adjacent branches forming points of union by which the arms are connected throughout but leaving ojen spaces or meshes which jroducethe reticulate appearance.
The arms of JEnallocrinus resemble those of Crotalocrinus in their mode I'f bifurcation and extraordinary length but are not connected laterally except for a few of the lower joints.
They have however frequently if not always lateral projections along the joints on each side and hence possess the crossshaped arm joints of Crotalocrinus PL XIX fig.
6''.
The sutures between the joints are also in the same line and do not alternate as we formerly supposed.
The mode of insertion of the higher radials upon the first radial is very peculiar and has not hitherto been understood.
We might have still remained in ignorance about it had it not been for the fortunate discovery among our Dudley specimens of an isolated first radial with the succeeding radials attached so that we could see them from all sides PI.
XX fig.
4.
By the aid of this and a very interesting much weathered specimen loaned us by Dr. Lindstrom we are enabled to describe and illustrate the position of these parts quite satisfactorily.
The plates frouL the second radial up are of considerable size but they are not always visible on the dorsal side.
In C. pnlcher they are plain enough PI.
XX fig.
1 but in C. rugosus they often appear as mere points or thin edges PI.
XX rig.
21.
The other ends emerge upon the ventral side where they present a considerable surface containing a large ambulacral groove.
In order to attain this position the plates which are wedgeshaped bend inward and upward until their opposite ends stand nearlv at right angles to each other and the arms at their origin pass out in a horizontal position.
This can be seen in fig.
21 PL XIX which represents a vertical section giving a side view of the same succession of plates as is shown dorsally by fig.
21 and ventrally by fig.
21 on the same plate.
The successive pieces are numbered in each figure to correspond and by comparing them and remembering that they present three different views of the same elements we think there will be no difficulty in understanding them.
We cannot see the least evidence of mobility of these plates until they become free from the first radial and thus attain the rank of arm plates.
Whenever the arms are found folded up the bending from a horizontal to a vertical position takes place in the lower arm plates and not in the higher radials.
The lanceolate areas which are such a conspicuous feature of the ventral surface and extend from the second axillary to the fifth or sixth bifurcations are formed by a great thickening along the outer edges of the marginal plates of two adjacent rays and therefore consist of two rows of arm plates respectively radials decreasing in width in their upward arrangement.
The anus is excentric and in C. pulcher takes the form of a large tube while in all authentic specimens of C. rugosus it seems to be a simple opening.
The form and position of the tube have been wrongly described by us.
Angelin's beautiful looking figure purporting to show it to its full length Icon.
Crin.
Suec PI.
XVII fig.
1 originating at the edge of the calyx and lying outside the arms proves to be an ideal figure based upon the erroneous interpretation of some fragmentary pieces.
Our specimen PL XX fig.
11 shows the base of the tube very well but not its full length.
To judge from the fragments shown by Angelin's PL XXV figs.
8  13 it must have been of considerable length in some specimens.
It seems to have been somewhat more highly organized than the anal tube of the Camarata generally and to approach the ventral sac of the Fistulata.
The actual length has not been observed but from the manner in which the large cavity within tapers in different specimens we have no doubt that the opening is at the upper end and represents a true anal tube whatever otlier function it may have possessed.
Nothing is known of the anal opening of EnaUocrinus.
We give herewith new definitions of the Crotalocrinidae and their two genera Crotalocrinus and EnaUocrinus to take the place of those given by us in the Revision Part III p. 143 and pp.
147  152 and we request all who may be using the Revision to substitute them at once.
We now direct attention to another point of considerable interest which has been developed by this investigation.
A very perplexing figure was given by Angelin PL XVII fig.
2b and a somewhat similar one by Murchison Siluria 8rd Ed. p. 247 fig.
5.
Avhich show certain extensions apparently from the inner rim of the first radials and which superficially resemble the socalled consolidating apparatus of Cupressocrinus.
A closer examination of Augelin's figure shows these extensions to be composed of small plates  both figures however are misleading for our specimens show that the plates forming those extensions do not rest against the inner edges of the first radials as represented but upon their upper faces as correctly shown in Angelin's PI.
XVII fig.
2a.
They are nothing but the exposed ventral surfaces of the second primary and succeeding radials the elevations being the projectingmargins along the ambulacral grooves.
Neither do they extend sofar inward as would seem from Angelin's figure they project inward only for a short distance and form underneath a surface of attachment for certain organs hereafter described.
Miiller described and figured correctly 0.
cit.
p. 189 PL VIII.
fig.
5 the inward curvature of the plates but we cannot agree with him in his statement that bv means of this curvature a roofing isformed over the periphery of the calyx.
This is not confirmed by the specimens in which the calyx is covered by summit plates interradials etc. and the grooves around the periphery are roofed over by solid covering plates  leaving onl the lateral margins exposed  in connection with and forming part of the calicular cavity.
The structure is clearly seen in our fig.
l PL XIX in which the grooves are shown open except in one ray where the covering plates are restored from the same part in another specimen.
Another figure of Angelin Tab.
VII. fig.
7a gives an inner view  that is from below  not superne visits as erroneously stated in the explanation of the plate  of a specimen of C. pulcher of which he speaks as showing the socalled consolidating apparatus.
Carpenter in his paper on Crotalocrinus explains that the calyx is broken across near the level of the top of the basals so that the internal faces of the radials and the following plates are exposed to view with the remaikable striations upon them which were regarded by Angelin as corresponding to the consolidating apparatus of Cupressocrinus and he proceeds  It is possible that like this structure they may represent an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles and ligaments but whatever else they may be the strise are certainly not hydrospire slits as supposed by Wachsmuth and Springer in 1879 .
But in any case they will no longer be able to refer to this family as Palpeocrinoids which 'probably have hydrospires within the calyx' and to use this supposed fact as an illustration of their theory that Blastoids Cystids and Crinoids are so closely linked together that they are not entitled to rank as Classes of Echiuoderms equivalent to the Urchins and Starfishes.
We have been able to study the organs in question in our specimen from Gothland PI.
XIX fig.
1 and in two of those used by Angelin loaned to us from the National Museum of Stockholm in all of which they are very well shown.
They are totally diflferent structures from the socalled consolidating apparatus of Gupressocrinus which we regard as muscle plates for the attachment of muscles and ligaments to move its huge arms.
The muscle plates of Cupressocrinus are appendages of the first radials and form part of the upper surface of the vault similar to the muscle plates of Symbathocrimis in which we know from direct observation that they constitute parts of the vault only the central space being closed by additional plates.
In both genera those plates are apposed by corresponding faces upon the first brachials and there is no roof or covering of any kind above them they being necessarily external if they served for places of nuiseular attachment to move the arms.
The case is totally different in Crotalocrinus in which the parts in question are roofed over by very solid covering plates leaving little more than the faces forming the lanceolate areas exposed.
Angelin applies the name consolidating apparatus not only to the overhanging margins of the radials but also to the lamellae underneath to which Carpenter refers as remarkable striations possibly for the attachment of muscles and ligaments.
These socalled striations consist of parallel lamellose walls or partitions located in regular sets within chambers or recesses Avhich underlie partly 1 Op.
cit p. 406. the overhans'ino maroins of the hisher radials constitutiuothe lanceolate areas partly the outermost interradial and are limited on either side by the inward extensions of the second and succeeding radials.
There are two sets of these lamellse to each interradius those of adjacent rays meeting laterally and entering the same chamber where they are closely connected  while those of the same ray stand at an angle from each other and are apparently disconnected except by a mere point.
Each set is composed of five to seven folded lamellae with continuous walls forming loops at each end.
They stand upright and seem to be attached at their lower ends to the inner surface of the first radials and those in the same ray come together by their upper ends at a small angle under the small triangular second radial where it projects farthest inward.
The upper ends are further attached along the inner walls of the higher radials and the outer interradials underneath Avhich the two adjacent sets meet by parallel plates and form a close connection.
The arrangement at the anal side is not clearly shown in any of the specimens.
In Enallocrinus we have not been able to discover anything of the lamellae but we had for examination but a solitary specimen showing the interior of the calyx.
There are seen however the same chambered spaces in which they might rest and we have little doubt they existed in that genus also.
Their position and structure in Grotalocrinus rngosus are shown in our figures 11 and 1.
on Plate XIX.
From our description it must be clear that these laminated structures do not possess any of the characteristics of muscleplates.
Their position in paired sets is interradial  they are completely internal and have no visible connection with the arms nor do they present anv surface for the attachment of muscles or ligaments but on the contrary are very frail structures having in some places little partitions connecting the walls and giving the whole a somewhat porous appearance.
On the other hand if we compare them with the hydrospires in the Blastoid genus Orophocrinus one cannot help being struck with the resemblance in form position and arrangement.
We will not assert unqualifiedly that they are hydrospires but we are very confident that they are not muscleplates nor anything of that nature and if they are not of the same character as the similar organs in Orophocrinus which have been universally considered to be hydrospires then we must acknowledge ourselves completely at a loss for anything in echinoderm morphology with which to compare them.
There is nothing else like them in any known crinoid.
If they are hydrospires then they certainly do afford a strong illustra.
tion of the close alliance between Blastoids Cystids and Crinoids.
If they are not hydrospires we should like to know what they are.
Enallocrinus is evidently very closely allied to Crotalocrinus.
The genus occurs at Dudley England whence we obtained specimens showiuo the arms better than the Swedish ones but nevertheless our material for the study of this type was by no means so satisfactory as that of Crotalocrinus.
The English specimens are all more or less crushed and do not throw much light on the structure of the calyx.
Angeliu's figures purporting to show the vault are imaginary as we have before shown.
The only specimen in the Stockholm Museum showing any part of the ventral covering has been sent to us for examination and we give two views of it PI.
XX figs 5 t.
It is somewhat abnormal two of the rays being grown together in such a way as to modify the arrangement of some of the plates.
It is one of the specimens from which it is supposed Angelin's figure 3a PL VII was constructed.
The insertion of the higher radials upon the first radials is upon the same plan as in Crotalocrinus especially the species shown by Angelin's PI.
XVII fig.
3a and our PI.
XX fig.
4 and from this and what little we can see of the ventral covering in the specimen above alluded to we conclude that the vault must have been constructed substantially like that of Crotalocrinus.
We figure a flattened specimen from Dudley PI.
XX fig.
6l which shows the arrangement and bifurcations of the arms but not by any means to their full length.
We have another set of arms Avhich seem to have their filiform extremities nearly complete and from this we should infer that the specimen we have figured shows but little over half the length of the arms.
Figs.
61 and 6i illustrate the projections from the sides of the joints in the same specimen.
We consider them important characters perhaps representing the projections on the arms of Crotalocrinus and indicating a tendency toward the reticulate arm structure which is the only well marked distinction between the two genera.
The specimen represented by Angelin's PI.
XV figs.
1 la and 2 as Enallocrinus assulosus and which Dr. Lindstrom assui'es us is correctly figured represents in the reduced lateral connection of the arm bases and the presence of small interradials on the dorsal side.
a considerable departure from the typical form of the genus.
It is inconsistent with the generic definition of Angelin who described it as having 'Hnterracllalla nulla.
It is a variation in the direction of the English form of Marsxipiocrinus  M. coelatus  PL XX fig.
7 which differs in its dorsal interradials from M. tennesseensis in almost the same way.
Crotaloerlnus and Enallocrmus form a good family which is connected through Marsupiocrinus  with the other Camarata.
Suborder CAMARATA.
Family CROTALOCRINIDAE.
Base dicyclic symmetry bilateral.
Calyx throughout composed of rigid plates.
Dorsal cup constructed almost exclusively of underbasals basals the first radials and a small anal jlate.
Higher radials uj to the third or fourth order irregularly Avedgeshaped their sharp ends directed outwards or sometimes hidden from view their larger ends wdiich curve upwards grooved for the ambulacra.
The plates rest partly upon the first radials partly against the radials of the preceding rder being with the former and with one another and laterally with those of adjoining rays firmly united by suture.
Arms capable of great mobility  uniserial  long  dividing into very numerous branches wdiich are free or connected laterally by tissues so as to form a network around the calyx either continuous or limited to the rays and forming five reticulate leaflike arms.
The arm branches are perforated by large axial canals which penetrate also the higher radials.
Ventral surface of calyx flat composed of five unequal orals  the posterior one the larger  five radial dome plates one or more interradials and several series of covering pieces which take the rigid form of vault plates.
Column large round  central cavity extremely large.
Crotalocrinus Austin.
1842.
Austin Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Ser.
1 Vol.
X p. 109.
1843.
Austin ibid. Ser.
1 Vol.
XI p. 198.
1848.
Morris Cat.
Brit.
Fos.
Ed.
1 p. 50  Ed.
2 p. 75.
1 It is an interesting fact as showing the keen perception of that veteran English naturalist that Th.
Austin in 1843 Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
Sen II Vol.
XI p. 198 referred C. rtcgosiis to the Marsupiocrinidae a family named but not defined by him.
1854.
Salter apud Murchison Siluria Ed.
2 p. 219  Ed.
3 p. 247 figs.
4 5 6 7.
1855.
McCoy Brit.
Pal.
Foss. p. 54.
1873.
Salter Cat.
Mus.
Cambr. p. 1 23.
1878.
Angelin Icon.
Crin.
Siiec p. 26 PL 7 PI.
8 PI.
17 PL 25.
1879.
Zittel Handb.
d.
Palaont. I. p. 356 fig.
244.
1882.
De Loriol Pal.
de France tome 11 Crin. p. 51.
1886.
Wachsmuth and Springer Kev.
Palceocr. Pt.
III. p. 165.
1886.
P. H. Carpenter Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist for November p. 397.
Syn.
Cyathocrinus 1821 J. S. Miller Nat.
Hist.
Crin. p. 89 with plate Antliocrinus 1853 Joh.
Miiller Abli.
Akad.
Berlin pp.
188192 PL 8  1855.
Roemer Lethrea.
Geogn.
Ausg.
Ill p. 255.
1855.
Quenstedt Handb.
d.
Petref. IV p. 943 PL 75.
1857.
Pictet Traite.
de Paleont. IV p. 312 PL 100.
1860.
Bronn Klassen.
d.
Thierreichs. Actiuozoa PL 27.
1862.
Dujardin and Hupe Hist.
Nat.
Zooph.
Echinod. p. 117.
Generic diagnosis.
When the arms are closed the crinoid resembles an elongate bud with folded leaves  when these are spread it is wheel shaped with five lanceolate areas between the bases of the rays.
Calyx subglobose flattened above.
Underbasals 5 large pentangular of uniform size.
Basals 5 very large extending three fourths the height of the calyx all hexagonal except the posterior one which is higher and has the upper angle truncated for the reception of a comparatively small quadrangular anal plate which rests between the first radials.
First radials much wider than high their distal faces thickened either concave or straight and occupied by small shallow depressions for the reception of the second and higher radials which to the third or fourth order rest partly upon this plate.
The second radial occupies a very small space at the middle of the first where it appears as a small trigonal bifurcating plate sometimes scarcely visible dorsally.
From its dorsal or outer side to its ventral side the plate is very long and slender bent upwards almost to a right angle so as to bring the face opposite to that exposed dorsally into a horizontal position and on a level with the vault.
The secondary radials rest against the sloping faces of the second primary and upon the first  they are bifurcating plates and as such support immediately the tertiary radials which in C. rugosus sometimes together with the first plate of the fourth order rest partly upon the first radial.
All of these plates in various ways are firmly attached to the first radial and united suturally with one another and all of them by curving upwards and inwards extend from the dorsal to the ventral surface of the calyx forming as such a sort of transition between true radials and arm plates in a similar manner as the higher radials of the Platycrinidae which they resemble in their arrangement.
The plates are wedgeform thinning out toward the dorsal cup where they are seen as mere points or lines or one or more of them are invisible altogether.
Their laiger upper faces which are exposed ventrally are deeply grooved for the ieception of the ambulacra and when the covering plates are in position are only partly exposed.
The plates above the fourth order are not in contact with the first radials and may be regarded as true armplates which they resemble in form and in point of mobility.
The arms are long and branch frequently  they are connected laterally by points of attachment from near the middle of each joint with open spaces between them forming together a sort of network around the calyx with innumerable elongate meshes.
In C. rvgosus the network is continuous around the calyx but in C. pulcher the rays are separated and form five broad reticulate leaves which when closed over the calyx overlap each other contrary to the case of C. rugosus in which the undivided network is closely plicated and folded.
The lower plates of the rays to the third or fourth order are immovably connected among each other and with the first radials  but higher up in the rays where the plates are no longer in contact with the first radials an articulation by strong muscles and fossse takes the place of suture.
The arm joints owing to their lateral projections have the form of a cross with short arms  they are long flat on the dorsal surface laterally compressed with straight sides and deeply grooved on the ventral surface for the reception of the ambulacra.
The ambulacral furrows are arched by covering pieces 3 to 4 to each side of the arm joint alternately arranged.
The arm joints are disposed in regular dichotomizing longitudinal rows as well as in regular concentric transverse rows the points of union occupying the same line all around.
Each arm plate is pierced with a very large dorsal canal and the bifurcating ones with two which meet in the middle of the plate  they ramify to the ends of the arms and all converge into one in the second radials thence passing downAvard along the inner surface of the first radials toward the basals.
The bifurcations near the calyx are unequal the sloping faces of the axillaries next the outer margins of the rays being considerably wider than the inner ones and the plates which they support are as large in proportion.
This continues on to about the sixth axillary above which the bifurcations gradually become regular and the outer plates attain the same width as the inner ones.
By this peculiar arrangement there appear when the arms are spread along the outer plates of adjacent rays five well marked lanceolate areas to the top of which the rays remain in lateral contact.
The bifurcations along the arms are extremely numerous and take place at various intervals sufficient to fill up the full segments of the circle when the arms are extended  they taper but slightly are very long and become threadlike at the ends.
The higher radials from the first primary up project inwards beyond the periphery of the calyx  the second projects the farthest and the plates of the second order slope away from it as also those of the third.
The latter form the proximal ends of the lanceolate areas whose overhanging margins together with the outermost interradial form a roof under which are located five large recesses or chambers interradial in position each of which is occupied by two sets of laminated structures in form and arrangement closely resembling the hydrospires of the Blastoid genus Oropkocrinus.
Each set apparently is composed of five to seven folded lamellae with continuous walls and loops at each end  they stand upright face laterally the inner walls of the overhanging primary radials their upper ends attached to the inner floor of the outer interradial being thus completely covered by vault structures.
Vault flat on a level with the spreading arms  composed of five oral plates the socalled central plate and the four large proximals.
The posterior oral central plate is large somewhat elongate its anterior end resting between the truncate faces of the four others the posterior end againt small anal plates.
The four small orals vary from elongateclavate PI.
XX figs 2 and 4 to almost regularly hexagonal PL XX fig.
3.
Outside the orals and alternating with them are five somewhat irregular radial plates which are axillary giving off two sets of covering pieces two rows of plates to each set all in lateral contact  they are heavy convex plates a little wider than high alternately arranged and solidly inserted into the vault.
26 Between the covering plates and abutting against the four smaller orals are two or more interradials the inner ones the larger.
Between the radialdomeplates and against the large posterior oral are numerous small anal plates which embrace the anus and of which the outer ones face the anal plate of the dorsal cup.
The anus is excentric and its form varies among species being either extended into a tube or placed at the top of a small protuberance.
The tube apparently reached considerable length and seems to have been composed of several rows of transverse pieces longitudinally arranged with a large octagonal cavity.
Column very large  terminating in numerous rootlets.
Canal large round.
Geological Position etc.
Upper Silurian of England and Sweden.
List of Species   1840.
Crotalocrinus jndeher Hisinger  Cyathocrinus jyulcher Leth.
Suec Supp.
II. p. 6 PI.
XXXIX figs.
5 a. b.1878 Angelin Iconogr.
Crin.
Suec p. 26 PI.
VII figs.
57 a b  PI.
VIII figs.
1 9a  PI.
XVII figs.
1 la d  PI.
XXV figs.
8 20.1879 Zittel Handb.
d.
Palaeont. Vol.
I p. 357 figs.
2 4 4 a  e.  1886 W. and Sp. Revision Palseocr. Pt.
Ill p. 150.
Syn.
Anthocrinus Loveni Joh.
Miiller 1853 Abh.
d. Berl.
Akad.
d.
Wissensch. p. 192 PI.
VIII figs.
1 11. Pictet 1857Traite de.
Paleont. Vol.
IV PI.
c figs.
8 a b c.  Dujardin and Hupe. Hist.
uat.
Zooph.
Echinod. p. 117.
 Quenstedt 1885 Handb.
d.
Petrefactenk. IV p. 943 PL 15 fig.
4.
Upper Silurian Gothland Sweden and Dudley Eng.
1821.
Crotalocrinus rugosus Miller Cyathocrinus rugosus Nat.
Hist.
Crin. p. 89. with plate.
 1837 Hisinger  Cyathocrinus rugosus Leth.
Suec p. 89 Tab XXV fig.
3  also Antckn Heft IV p. 217 PI.
VII fig.
3.1839 Phillips Cyathocrinus rugosus Murchison's Silur System p. 672 PI.
18 fig.
1.
 1843 Austin Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Ser.
1 Vol.
XI p. 198. 1843 Morris Cat.
Brit.
Foss. Ed.
I p. 50. 1850 D'Orbigny  Cyathocrinus rugosus Prodr.
d.
Paleont. Vol.
I p. 46.
 1854 Salter apud Murchison Siluria Ed.
2 p. 219 Ed.
Ill p. 247 figs.
47 and PI.
13 fig.
3. 1855 McCoy Brit.
Pal.
Foss. p. 55.1873 Salter Cat.
Mus.
Cambr. p. 123.1878 Angelin Icon.
Crin.
Suec p. 26 PI.
VII fig.
4 PI.
XVII tigs.
8 8a.
not figs.
3 3. 1879 Zittel Handb.
d.
Palreont. I. p. 357 fig.
244.1885 Quenstedt  Cyathocrinus rugosus Handb.
d.
Petrefactenk. IV p. 943 fig.
349. 1886.
W. and Sp. Rev.
Palreocr. Pt.
Ill p. 150.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland Sweden and Dudley Eng.
1878.
Crotalocrinus superhus Angelin Iconogr.
Crin.
Suec. p. 26 PI.
XVII figs.
2 2 a b. 1886 W. and Sp. Rev.
Palseocr. Pt.
Ill p. 150.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland Sweden.
Crotalocrinus undescribed species.
PI.
Ill fig.
4 Referred by Angelin PI.
XVII figs.
3 3 a b to C. rugosus.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland Sweden and Dudley Eng.
ENALLOCRINUS D'Orbigny.
1850.
D'Orbigny Prodr.
d.
Pal. 1. p. 46  Cours.
elem. II p. 142.
1854.
Salter apud Murchison Siluria 3rd Ed.
 p. 247.
1857.
Pictet Traite d.
Pal. IV. p. 320.
1862 Dujardin and Hupe Hist.
nat.
Zooph.
Echin. p. 134.
1878.
Angelin Icon.
Crin.
Suec p. 25.
1879.
Zittel Handb.
d.
Pal. I. p. 356.
1886.
Wachsmuth and Springer Rev.
Palaeocr. Pt.
Ill p. 150.
Syn.
Apiocrinites Hisinger in part  Millericrinus D'Orbigny in part  Anihocrinus Quenstedt in part.
Generic Diagnosis.
 Calyx similar in fiorm and construction to that of Crotalocrinus interradials sometimes appearing dorsally.
Arms not reticulate.
First radials wide their distal faces usually occupied by a deep lunate excavation in Avhich the second primary and one or two higher radials rest  sometimes however truncate.
Second primary and higher radials inserted and connected as in Crotalocrinus curving upward and appearing on the ventral side in a similar way.
Rays completely disconnected from the first radials up and the arms becoming free variously between the first to the fourth bifurcation.
Second radials perforated by a large axial canal which passes downward  it ramifies within the higher radials and passes into the arms but apparently does not extend to their full length.
Arms uniserial very long tapering little bifurcating at lengthening intervals toward the upper parts into very numerous equal branches the ultimate divisions being extremely attenuate  the arms capable of being spread out horizontally.
Arm joints shorter than in Crotalocrinus with parallel sutures those of adjacent branches opposite each other not alternating.
Toward the upper ends of the arm joints there are more or less conspicuous transverse projections  one from each side of the joint  which are more prominent and elongate at the ventral side.
They border the arm furrow and give to the arm when viewed from the side a pectinate appearance which is more strongly marked toward the distal ends of the arms PL XX tigs jLil.
Ambulacral farrows shallow with covering plates arranged in the usual way.
 Vault apparently similar to that of Crotalocrinus  median part unknown  ambulacra toward the periphery roofed over by convex alternating pieces having the form of vault plates which pass out over the arms.
Anal opening unknown.
Column round very large with short joints and thin walls canal round and of extremely large size.
Geological Position etc.
Upper Silurian of Sweden and England.
List of Species   1878.
Enallocrinus assulosus Angelin Icon.
Crin.
Suec p. 26 PL XV figs.
1  4.
Upper Silurian Gothland Sweden.
1828.
E. scriptus Plisinger CyathocrinitesT Anteckn IV p. 217 PL V fig.
9  PL VII fig.
1. 1831.
Apiocriiiites 
scriptus Anteckn V p. 123 Esquisse d'un tableau des Petref.
de la Su6de p. 23. 1837.
Leth.
Suec p. 89 PL XXV figs.
1 and 2.
 D'Orbigny 1840 Miller icrinus scriptus Hist.
Nat.
Crin. p. 94 PL XVI fig.
29. 1850.
Prodr.
d.
Pal. I p. 46.
 Angelin 1878 Icon.
Crin.
Suec p. 25 PL VII figs 1 3a PL IX figs.
18 and 19  PL XXV figs.
17  PL XXVII figs.
17 20a.
Syn.
 Enallocrinus punetatus Hisinger Leth.
Suec p. 89.
 3filler icrinus punetatus D'Orbigny Hist.
Xat.
Crin. p. 94 PL XVI fig.
30.
 Enallocrinus punetatus Salter apud Murchison Siluria Ed.
2 j.
218.
 Anthocrimis scriptus and A. punetatus Quenstedt Handb.
d. Petref IV p. 944 PL 75 figs.
6 7.
Upper Silurian.
Gothland Sweden and Dudley England.
1 We have observed these projections on the arms only in the Enghsh specimens.
We give it as a generic character as we think it hkely the Swedish ones will show it also when sufficiently well preserved  and because we consider it of some importance as representing the projections on the arms of Crotalocrinus by which these M'ere connected and thus exhibiting a tendency toward the reticulate structure.
1888.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
389 Explanation of Plates.
Plate XIX.
Fig.
It Crotalocrimts rugosus.
Ventral aspect of a large specimen from Sweden showing the inner floor of the calyx the lanceolate areas and the outstretched arms with their deep ventral grooves and in places their covering pieces  the tips of the arms coiled up so as to expose their dorsal face.
The covering pieces at the lower right hand corner restored from another specimen.
Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer.
Fig.
1 Oblique view of a portion of the same specimen showing the lamellae beneath the overhanging margins of the higher radials.
Fig.
It Ventral view of a portion of the arms enlarged.
Figs.
2f Diagramatic figures showing the arrangement of the higher radials in Crotalocrinus rugosus  2
 the dorsal side  2 the ventral side  21 a vertical section through the dotted line in 2.
The numbers refer to the same plates in all three figures i. e. IL and i to the first and second primary radials 2L to the secondary radials 3 and 3 to the tertiary radials 4l and 4 to the quaternary radials the succeeding plates are brachials.
Fig.
3.
Ventral aspect of the same species from a specimen in the National Museum of Stockholm showing the rigid covering jjlates around the margin of the calyx.
Fig.
4.
A portion of a first primary radial of the same species with the higher radials in place resting upon it.
Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer.
Fig.
5.
Enlarged view showing the markings on the lower face of a fii'st radial of the same species.
Fig.
6.
Radials and lower arm plates in Fterotocrinus.
Fig.
7.
The radials and lower arm joints in 3farsupiocrimis tennesseensis.
Plate XX.
Fig.
Vt Crotalocrinus pulcher.
Anterior view of a specimen with arms from Gothland Sweden.
Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer.
Fig.
1 Posterior view of the same specimen showing the base of the proboscis.
Fig.
2
 Calyx of a small specimen of Crotalocrimis rugosus from Dudley England.
Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer.
Fig.
2
 Ventral aspect of the same specimen.
Fig.
3.
Ventral aspect of Crotcdocriniis sp.

Drawn from a gutta percha cast.
Original in the Museum at Cambridge England.
Fig.
4.
Crotalocrimis sp.
und. from Sweden.
Ventral view from a fine drawing by Mr. G. Liljevall.
Original in the National Museum at Stockholm.
Fig.
5
 Enallocrinus scriptus.
Posterior view of a specimen from Sweden in the National Museum at Stockholm.
5 ventral view of same specimen showing portions of the covering plates in some places the middle of the vault broken away.
Fig.
61 Enallocrinus scriptus.
Anterior vieAv of a nearly complete specimen from Dudley England Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer 61 transverse section of column of same specimen showing the large central canal  61 enlarged side view of a portion of the arm showing the pectinated projections  61 Dorsal view of same.
CONTKIBTJTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS.
No.
III.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
Smilacina bifolia.
Observing in a large tract of Smilacina bifolia that the leaves were for the most part at a very light angle indeed almost vertical it seemed to afford a good opportunity to test a prevalent idea that in such cases the stomata are nearly equal in numbers on each surface of the leaf.
Dr. J.
B. Brinton kindly made a careful microscopical examination of some leaves I furnished him with but he found no difference in this respect to leaves with a purely horizontal direction.
On a small section of which he hands me a drawing there was only one stoma on the upper surface while there were fifteen on the under surface.
Dichogamy and its significance.
Dichogamy has reference to the relative period of maturity of stamen and pistil.
When the stamens are in the advance the flowers nre said to be proterandrous  when the pistil is mature before the stamens the flower is proterogynous.
Usually the term is employed in connection with hermaphrodite flowers.
But as it is a mere question of the time required for the development of the sexual organs necessary to the perfecting of a complete individual it is obvious that we may extend the term so as to include monoecious and dioecious plants.
The law under which the separate sexual organs are retarded in their growth in some instances and accelerated in others cannot but have supreme importance in the study of vegetable biology.
If we can trace the working of this law in the hermaphrodite flower to the extent of acceleration or retardation for but a single day we can easily get to understand how some plants may come to have the maturity of these organs days apart and to finally divide into monoecious or dioecious classes.
Among the contributions I have made to botanical science few impress me with more importance than the determination of the fact that a degree or measure of heat capable of exciting the male organs to growth may yet be wholly inadequate to start growth in the female see Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 1885 p.
1.17.
I observed that the aments of walnuts hazelnuts and similar plants were often perfected weeks and occasionally months before the female flowers were in conditon to receive pollen and that it was only in seasons when the stamens and pistils matured simultaneously that large crops of nuts followed.
I had overlooked at that time the fact that something similar had been placed on record before.
In the Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London vol.
V 1824 is a pajjer by Rev.
George Swayne showing that the filbert crop in Kent fails two years out of five  that some seasons the catkins mature before the female flowers open and at others not till afterwards and that failure to produce a crop results from the absence of pollen at the period when the female flower is in receptive condition.
All I can therefore claim as original is the formula that varying measures of heat influence variously the separate sexes  the smaller measure influencing the male while the female still continues to rest.
Since my observations were made on the hazel I have extended them to other plants.
It has long been known that in many of the Central States coniferous trees that produce seeds abundantly farther north rarely have one perfect seed in those regions.
I know this is so in the vicinity of Philadelphia.
The Norway spruce may produce cones by the cartload with not an ounce of seed in the lot.
Since the observations above cited I find that the male flowers mature long before the female and affords a satisfactory reason for the failure.
Further north where winter does not coquette with spring as here they remain in rest equally and advance together.
In their gregarious forest condition no doubt the extent of surface conduces to an equilibrial condition of climate not surrounding isolated trees in a cultivated state.
In brief I may enumerate a number of coniferse alders Avalnuts chestnuts oaks hickories and the hazelnut as among those that I carefully watched for the few years past noting a wide range of difference each season between the times of maturing of the male and female flowers.
The season of 18878 I noticed was favorable to a simultaneous maturity of the sexes.
I exhibited specimens in the spring of 1888 to the Botanical Section of the Academy and had no difficulty in predicating on the fact of simultaneity an abundant harvest of nuts which has been fully realized.
I have since been observing the working of this principle in elms and maples  hermaphrodite plants  the species under observation being Ulnius americana and J.cer dasycarpum.
The trees of the former were comparatively young but had flowered the first three years without perfecting more than a seed here and there.
I had no difficulty in perceiving in these elms and maples in the spring of 1887 that the pollen had been dispersed weeks before the pistil was mature.
The past season 1888 examination showed the anthers bursting simultaneously with the receptive conditions.
There was an abundant crop of seeds.
The maple is usually inclined to dioecism.
Although the flowers may seem perfect the stamens in some fertile flowers never proceed beyond anthers that give no pollen while in other cases perfect stamens with filaments and fertile anthers are produced Avhen the gynoecium seems unable to fulfil its functions.
But the elm at least here seems a full hermaphrodite yet only this season of three successive ones had it full hermaphrodite functions.
In the two first it was so very proterandrous as to be barren.
It was not proterandrous this year though I cannot say it was proterogynous.
It was in fact as Avell as in name hermaphrodite.
Surely I am warranted in presenting the formula that varying measures of temperature variously affect the separate sexual organs and that the dichogamy has its origin in this simple circumstance.
It is interesting to note how near we may get to a great truth without actually perceiving it till long afterwards.
In 1868 I announced through the Proceedings of the Academy my discovery that Mltchella repens was not merely heterostyled but practically dioecious.
I had subsequently found a whiteberried variety which bore berries freely when surrounded by its companions but I never had one during the many years it was under culture in my garden.
Up to that time and subsequently the course of these phenomena was obscure.
Mr. Darwin in Forms of Floivers Chap.
AII observes   But according to Mr. Meehan Mltchella itself is dioecious in some districts.
   Should these statements be confirmed Mitchella will be proved to be heterostyled in one district and dioecious in another.
With our present light we can readily see how this may easily be.
Now what is the significance of dichogamy 
The general view at the present time is substantially the same as given in the work above quoted.
There Darwin expresses it in these words   Various hermaphrodite plants have become heterostyled and now exist under two or three forms  and we may confidently believe that this has been effected in order that crossfertilization should be assured.
With the new light I have thrown on the origin of dichogamy I am sure the great Darwin would be ready to modify this view.
It cannot have the significance we all thought it had at that time.
We now see that a plant may find itself in a climate or in surroundings favorable to an early development of stamens  in another case in a locality or country where the reverse will prevail.
Dichogamy will then vary.
TVe also know that heredity plays a jart in fixing a constantly recurring local tendency so that a plant having acquired a tendency to proterandy or it may be to proterogyny would continue to carry the habit long after the superinducing causes had passed away.
Plants remaining for ages in a locality where the conditions Avould be favorable to a wide difference between simultaneity would probably become in time monoecious or dioecious and all this as we see from no particular assurance that crossfertilization would thereby be affected.
In trying to reach generalizations of this character we should not however forget that in nature things seldom follow from a single cause but from the operation of united forces.
In this connection I have shown see Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Salem and subsequent meetings that sex itself is largely influenced by the amount of nutrition available when the primordial cell is fertilized.
If sex itself may be influenced by nutrition the subsequent growth of its repi'esentative organs may still further be influenced which would introduce into the consideration an additional element aside from temperature alone.
I have my own postulate as to the significance of dichogamy.
I rest here by the simple proposition that whatever its significance it arises from no effort innate to the plant itself but from an outside force that can have little interest in ci'ossfertilization.
It is proper to say that an abstract of this paper was read before the American Association for the Advancement oj Science at Cleveland.
See Botanical Gazette for September 1888.
Trientahs Americana Pursh.
There can be but little doubt that Trientalis Americana grew freely over what is now the city and county of Philadelphia.
It is still found in adjoining counties and here and there are old botanists who remember having collected it on the confines of the county  but it is not included in Barton's Flora now over 60 years old  nor in Darrach's Catalogue or any published list so far as I know.
In an old chestnut wood at Chestnut Hill my brother Joseph detected a small patch this summer that has evidently been there for ages but overlooked  and this suggests some thoughts on its habits and past geographical record of general interest.
I have collected this plant in its various forms over widely separated portions of the American continent  Canada the Alleghanies California and Alaska  and though holding its own wherever found it does not show evidences of the extension that must have characterized it in the past when with no remarkably specialized organs favoring distribution it managed to travel in its various forms  as T. JEuropcea T. Americana and T. Arctica  over the whole north of Europe and across the American continent to Behring's Straits.
So far as I have seen in the localities named the plants seem to produce seeds though not abundantly  but there are no evidences of seedlings.
In the Chestnut Hill location the only tract on which the plant is found is but a few hundred square feet yet though unnoted it must have been confined to this limited area fojat least a hundred yeai's or perhaps for many centuries.
The piece of wood is a favorite botanical hunting ground.
I myself have wandered through it for over a quarter of a century and the early Philadelphia botanists  sharpeyed as they were  would surely have seen it here if at all common in those times.
It is worth while considering how so great a wanderer in remote ages should have acquired such remarkable stayathome habits in recent times.
Some conditions favorable to distribution must surely have existed which have disappeared in modern ages.
What can these changes be
So far as persistency is concerned I note a fact not recorded anywhere that the plant is stoloniferous bearing a small tuber at the end of a slender thread which reproduces the plant next year the whole of the previous years' plants except these little tubers dying away.
In this way the plant through its progeny can be a traveler at the rate of two or three inches a year.
It is remarkable that this character is not noted by systematic authors for the specimens in the herbarium of the Academy taken at various times during the flowering period from difierent parts of the world exhibit traces of the little tubers at the ends of stolons that have evidently been passed over tor true roots.
It is hardly to be supposed that the plants have wandered wholly by the aid of these little tubers valuable as they must be for persistency when once a foothold has been obtained.
We are forced to the conclusion that at some former period it received much more aid from seed and seedlings than it receives in modern times.
As we are often aided in the study of the geographical wanderings of phints a list is appended of comparatively local plants found in companionship with Irientalis on the 8rd of June.
Allium Canadense Pogonia vertieillata Amelanchier Botryapium Polemonium rejitans Cypripedmm pubescens Pyrola elliptica Hypoxys erecta Pyrus arbuUfolia Medlola Vlrginiea Viburnum acerifolium Mitchella repens Viola pxbescens Goodyera pubescens Veratrum viride  Osmunda spectabilis Aspidium cristaium.
Oxalis violacea On the glands in some Caryophyllaceous flowers.
It cannot he said that the existence of glands near the base of the common chickweed and its allies has been wholly overlooked but they are seldom referred to and no attempt has been made to read their significance.
In regard to the chickweed Stellaria media.
Withering notes in the British Fhra p. 547 stamens glandular at the base.
Dr. Bromfield notes of a closely related species Stellaria ulignosa  stamens 10 those alternating with the petals inserted on shortish flattened glands  near but not close to the base of the germen  being in fact above the latter and at the top of the conical enlargement of the calyx below the sepals Flora Vectensis 71.
At p. 75 the same author notes oi Arenaria serpxjllijolia  stamens 5 to 10 those alternating with the sepals placed on a projecting glandular base five shorter having apparently abortive anthers.
Of Sonekenya peloides both Torrey and Gray and Withering note the ten glands alternating with the stamens  and Hooker remarks of Cherleria sedoides that it has glands inside the five stamens.
Examining with a pocket lens some flowers of the chickweed between two and three o'clock in the afternoon early in May I noticed the glands had secreted an enormous amount of liquid.
The little globules were nearly as large as ordinary pin heads.
It did not occur to me at that time that the period of the day had anything to do with the phenomena but I w'as led to examine other allied species of plants the next day.
I did not detect any and I particularly examined Cerastiiim viscosum and had about concluded that the existence of prominent glands and a free exudation of liquid was peculiar to the chickweed when examining about the same time of day as in the former case I found the exudation as abundant in the Cerastium also.
Profiting by this hint and examining at this time of day all species coming under my notice I can say that glands exist in Cerastium viscosum C. arvense Arenaria serpyllifoUa Stellaria longifolia S. media I could not find the glands in Stellaria jnibera.
It is well known that in Caryophyllacee generally there are usually ten stamens in two series  the outer alternate with the petals  the inner five alternate with the outer and opposite the petals.
There are often less by abortion in which case it is the members of the inner series that disappear.
No glands are between the stamens of the inner series.
There are never but five and these alternate with outer stamens.
The outer series mature the anthers a day before the inner series mature them except I believe in S puhera  but the liquid exudation occurs with the maturity of the anthers of the first series.
The liquid in the chickweed has a slightly sweet taste and is very viscid as a little taken out with the point of a penknife and rubbed between finger and thumb testifies.
The five outer stamens in Arenaria serpyllifoUa bend inwards and the abundantly polliniferous anthers rest on the apex of the stigmas completely covering the stigmas with ownpollen.
The inner ones turn outwardly resting on the petals or nearly so and seem to have anthers wholly destitute of pollen.
In Cerastium viscosum. the pollen matures before the pistils.
At the time the pollen scatters the fiisicle of pistils are keeping close company.
Soon afterwards they diverge push themselves up among the pollenclothed stamens and are certainly selffertilized in most if not absolutely in all cases.
Examining the chickweed as it grew over a very large tract of waste ground and soon after noon when with a close nakedeye observation the comparativelv large globules can be seen glistening in the sun  one can scarcely neglect asking nature the chief object of this enormous production of sweet liquid  for the collective quantity from these millions of flowers may be truly styled enormous.
It has been asserted that nectar is given to flowers to attract insects for the purpose of crossfertilization and many observations confirm the deduction in numerous instances.
Certainly the nectar attracts and as certainly the visits often result in fertilization  sometimes by the flowers' own pollen oftener by the pollen from flowers on the same or neighboring plants and occasionally from flowers from plants under different conditions the true Darwinian idea of crossfertilization.
But I could see no bees visiting the chickweed for this banquet of nectar set before them.
As the flowers are arranged for selffertilization there could be no assistance to the flowers in this work even did bees visit them.
If insects came in no way does it appear they could be of any advantage.
Because I did not see any bees using the nectar during warm days following the first observations it does not follow that they never resort to it.
Bees go to those flowers where their hard task is the easiest.
I have often seen them collecting pollen from chickweed when a few warm early spring days attracted them from the hive but at soon as the male catkins of the willow mature with their very abundant crop of pollen they leave the chickweed and indeed most other flowers while the willow pollen lasts.
Later on about the middle of May I found nectarcollecting honey bees working freely on Cerastium viseosmn.
It is never safe to say bees or other insects do not visit certain flowers.
It depends largely on the supply of material.
When abundant they evidently have preferences and let the more difficult tasks alone.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF GEORGE W. TRYON Jr. BY AV.
S. W. RUSCHENBERGEPv M. D.  for go at night or noon A friend whene'er he dies has died too soon And once we hear the liopeless He is dead.
So far as flesh hath knowledge all is said.
yatnes Russell Lowell  Agassiz.
The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia requested me February 7th 1888 to prepare a biographical notice of the late George W. Tryon Jr. for publication in its Proceedings.
He died February 5.
The suddenness of the event shocked all his personal and many of his merely scientific friends far and near.
One MrC. E. Beddome who is in every sense qualified to justly appraise his worth said to me in a note dated Tasmania April 4 not very long since received   I have respected him as one of the grandest conchologists of the day.
I feel that I have lost my most valued correspondent  but what must be the loss of your academy and the conchological world.
His great Avork  Manual of Conchology' not yet finished will be the grandest monument that could be erected to his memory.
Eminence fairly acquired by a toiler on any path of learning or scientific research wins admiration especially from those moving forward on the same quest Avhether in his neighborhood or in places widely remote  and after he dies they become more or less curious about his origin and career.
Some are pleased to seek causes of his success in the circumstances of his life assuming that social environment sways the formation of character just as physical conditions surrounding certain organisms are supposed to influence their development.
Students of this class ask where the eminent man was born and raised and trained as well as what notable features characterized the locality where he grew to be distinguished among his associates.
Those of another sort who confide almost entirely in the doctrines of heredity are disposed to ascribe the notable qualities of a contemporary to his parents and their ancestors thus failing to recognize in him any merit wholly and clearly his own.
They seem to forget that uncommon intellectual force mental capability is not always traceable to heredity or to environment in any considerable extent.
All the great heroes of science and literature did not have scientific ancestors or scientific environment.
The genius of neither Franklin nor Shakespeare was an inheritance.
George Washington Tryon Jr. the eldest son of Edward K. Tryon and his wife nee Adeline Savitd was born May 20 1838 on Green street between Front and Newmarket stieets then in the district of the Northern Liberties.
The place of his birth is about twelve or fifteen liuudred yards to the northward and eastward of the State House of Philadelphia  Independence Hall.
The locality Avas never a fashionable quarter of the city.
It abounds in alleys and courts of small tenements having small windows glazed with eight by ten inch panes and roofs of cedar shingles as may be seen today.
A substantial industrious people most of them engaged in mechanical pursuits inhabited the neighborhood the alleys and streets of which were the playgrounds of their many children.
It is now as it was fifty years ago only the signs of age in some spots are probably more apparent.
George Washington Tryon a gunsmith had trained his son Edward K. Tryon in the manufacture and trade in firearms and sportmen's accoutrements a business which he had established and conducted successfully during a quarter of a century or more.
He retired in 1837 leaving his son in possession of the establishment.
George W. Tryon Jr. at an early age manifested a retiring cheerful and considerate disposition.
His interest in the sports and games of boys was not sufficient to divert him from books.
When about seven years old he began to collect specimens of natural history.
The taste was encouraged by giving him a room at home in which to displa them to members of a society of infant naturalists which he formed.
From the start shells received most of his attention.
The obseVvant and reflective character of the child's mind is notable.
He early discovered that a nomenclature was necessary to satisfactorily arrange even a small collection of specimens.
He invented one.
He named shells according to their shapes or colors as the round shell the white shell  one of such irregular form as puzzled him to designate he called the funny shell.
The habit of gathering specimens of natural history begun without method in infancy and more and more systematized as his experience and observation matured was lifelong.
His first and predominant love for shells increased with his years and made him an industrious Vvtary of conchology.
He was taught the rudiments of learniug at home.
After he had passed through one or two private schools for children it was detere mined that he should receive academic instruction in the Friends' Central School because it was regarded to be the best available.
It was then in Race between Fourtli and Fifth streets and now is at the S. W. corner of Race and Fifteenth streets.
He became a pupil of the institution in October 1850 and continued till his school days ended June 1853.
During the almost three years here his attention was given only to English studies and drawing.
The transfer of the family residence in 1852 to Pittville one of the purlieus of Germantown live or six miles from the business centre of Philadelphia did not interrupt his regular attendance at school nor hinder the growth of his museum.
The family returned to and was permanently established in the city in 1869.
Very soon after leaving the Friends' Central School he employed tutors in the city and studied French German and Music until he had acquired knowledge enough to write and speak the languages sufficiently well for practical purposes and to understand the principles of musical composition.
About this time with some of his young friends he formed a musical society or club.
Their performances enlivened the evenings at their country homes.
His interest in books created in him a desire to be an author.
His first effort in this direction was a history of the United States finished when he was twelve years old but not printed.
A few years later he announced that literary and scientific work would be his permanent occupation.
But at the earnest request of his parents he relinquished the project for a time and engaged in mercantile work in his father's establishment.
At the age of nineteen 1857 he was given a share in the business and on the retirement of his father in 1864 he became the principal of the firm and so continued till 1868 when he retired with a modest income sufficient in his estimation to justify indulgence in unrestrained pursuit of science and letters.
He found relaxation from business cares in music.
Though not a notably skilful player on any instrument he was acquainted with the science of music.
He wrote a comic opera in three acts entitled.
Amy Cassonet or the Elojement which was acted at the Amateur Drawing Room and published  but it was in no sense successful.
The copyright is dated 1875.
27 He sought to spread a love of music among the people and to elevate their taste.
With this in view he joined in the management of the Germania Orchestra for a season.
It was a failure.
His partner disappeared and Mr. Tryon had to supply pecuniary deficiencies.
In connection with a musicalpublication firm  Lee and Walker  he edited and jublished prior to 1873 librettos of fiftytwo standard and popular operas.
During 1874 and 1875 he revised and edited the sheetmusic publications of Lee and Walker and in the sam years edited The Amateur  a monthly magazine of music and literature.
He also arranged a series of operatic songs which were published in 1875 under the title of Operatic Gems.
In 1884 he published  Sacred Songs for Choir and Home Circles a Collection of Solos Concerted Pieces Hymns etc. the music of which consisted largely of selections from the scores of the more popular operas.
Mr. Tryon was a warm admirer of the fine arts and occasionally amused himself with painting.
Music and the fine arts were secondary occupations  they never diverted him from the pursuit of'natural history.
He w'as elected a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia June 1859.
From that time till the end of his life no one did more to promote the interests of the institution.
His services were many and important.
The society is largely indebted to Mr. Tryon for the edifice which it now occupies.
On his motion November 14th 1865 a committee was formed  to devise methods for advancing the prosperity and efficiency of the academy by the erection of a building  etc.
He was appointed chairman of the committee.
The measures recommended by it were adopted.
The election of a Board of Trustees of the Building Fund followed Jan. 11 1867.
Mr. Tryon was appointed Secretary and held the ofiice till he died twentyone years.
He was a member of the building committee.
No one labored more assiduously in every way to promote the completion of the enterprise which he had started.
He gave SoOOO to the building fund  and his generosity enabled the Conchological Section of the Academy to give to it as much more.
Mr. Tryon was elected a Curator of the academy January 1869 and resigned July 1876.
Under his direction and personal attention the numerous collections of the museum were safely transferred in January 1876 from the old and arranged in the new building.
This arduous task was admirably performed.
I At his instigation the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences was founded December 26 1866.
He was a constituent member and its Conservator from December 1875 thirteen years.
His skill in conchology is manifest in the admirable arrangement and classification and his incessant carefulness in the excellent condition of the collections which were under his official charge.
According to the annual report of the Section December 1887 they consisted of 189150 sjjecimens contained in 51327 trays each with an appropriate label.
This enormous collection and an almost complete conchological library of 954 volumes besides 455 pamphlets bound in 26 volumes all accessible under one roof render the facilities of study of the subject in the academy unsurpassed.
Ajril 9 1867 he made a special deposit of more than ten thousand species of shells and more than a hundred jars of specimens chiefly of naked moUusks in alcohol gathered during his lifelong devotion to the subject on condition that none should be loaned.
They were appropriately intercalated with the academy's collection.
The duplicates were sold by his direction and the proceeds of sales covered into the treasury of the Conchological Section.
It is nrotable that he did not stipulate that this very large contribution  the largest private collection in this country  should be kept separate from the rest of the museum and designated by his name which is a usual condition attached to donations of private naturalhistory cabinets to public museums.
It was his opinion that it is unwise to accept cabinets on such terms because it must result sooner or later in encumbering the museum Avith the care of numberless and useless duplicates for which space cannot be easily afforded.
The records show that Mr. Tryon contributed valuable specimens to the museum every year during the remainder of his life.
He gave May 7 1867 119 volumes and 56 pamphlets on conchology to the library.
The first number of the American Journal of Conchology of which Mr. Tryon was the editor and proprietor was issued February 1865 Seven volumes were published the last number in May 1872.
After the institution of the Conchological Section of the Academy it was issued nominally by the publication committee of the Section of which Mr Tryon was chairman but he was still the editor.
The third and subsequent volumes contain summaries of the proceedings of the Section at its stated meetings.
To the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences and to the American Journal of Conchology Mr. Tryon contributed sixtyfour papers between 1861 and 1873 inclusive a list of which is appended.
In conjunction with Mr. Wm.
G. Binneyin 1864 Mr. Tryon edited the complete writings of C. S. Rafinesque on recent and fossil conchology.
In 1866 he published A Monograph on the terrestrial mollusca of the United States in 1870 A Monograph of the Freshwater univalve mollusca of the United States  in 1873 American Marine Conchology and A Monograph on the Streptomatidse American Melanians of North America.
This work was prepared at the instance of the Smithsonian Institution and published in its Miscellaneous Collections in December.
It was a result of several years' study.
The manuscript was completed in 1865 and laid aside.
At the end of seven or eight years he again took up the subject which he regarded as  one of the most interesting and difficult branches of American Conchology and found himself  inclined to question many of the conclusions  which he had reached.
In the preface of the work he says  A more enlarged acquaintance with freshwater shells convinces me that a much greater reduction of the number of species than I have attempted must eventually be made but until the rolific waters of the Southern States liave been systematically explored and a great collection of specimens obtained which shall represent every portion of those streams and include as many transitional forms as can be procured a definite monograph of our Melanians cannot be written.
More conclusive evidence of Mr. Tryon's habitual devotion to accuracy in all his work than is contained in thfe history of the jreparation of this monograph is not required.
Mr. Tryon for the sake of relaxation left Philadelphia May 1874 and returned September 19.
During an absence of four months he visited England Holland Belgium Germany France Switzerland Italy.
In a series of letters he wrote goodhumored cheerful sketches of his impressions of people and places at which he halted on his way.
They were published in the Amateur a monthly magazine of Music and Literature.
He visited England and the continent of Europe again in 1877.
His route included Liverpool London Paris Marseilles and thence along the coast of the Mediterranean to Nice San Remo Genoa Pisa Rome Naples Sorrento  returning through Venice Florence Turin Geneva Chamouni Berne Mayence  the Rhine Cologne Brussels Antwerp and back to London Liverpool and home in the autumn.
Now naturally imbued with the love of truth exclusively for the truth's sake possessed of the true methods of scientific inquiry and equipped with the results of his lifelong home studies of the mollusca as well as of his observations in the European museums and cabinets Mr. Tryon devised the plan of his greatest work  Manual of Conchology  and promptly began its execution.
The plan embraced four series of volumes.
The first series of eleven or twelve volumes is devoted to the marine univalves  the second of six or seven to the terrestrial mollusca  the third of four or five to the marine bivalves and the fourth of four or five volumes to the fluviatile genera.
The Manual of Conchology completed according to the author's plan will consist of from twentyone to twentynine octavo volumes all fully illustrated.
The scope of this great work is described in the  advertisement  or preface of the first number which was finished and ready for publication in the last week of December 1878.
Mr. Tryon says the Manual  will include in systematic order the diagnoses of all the genera and higher divisions of the mollusca both recent and fossil and the descriptions and figures of all the recent species  together with the main features of their anatomy and physiology their embryology and development their relations to man and other animals and their geological and geographical distribution.
The numbers of tlie first series were issued quarterly.
Volume IX was completed December 1887.
The nine volumes include 3125 pages of text illustrated by 680 plates of 12.055 figures.
The first number of the second series  terrestrial mollusca  was distributed January 1885 and thereafter quarterly to the close of Vol.
Ill December 1887.
The three volumes contain 942 pages of text illustrated by 187 plates of 6434 figures.
Conscious that he probably might not live to complete his enterprise but without foreboding Mr. Tryon interested Mr. H. A. Pilsbry in it.
To him he freely imparted his purposes and views in connection Avith it so that he might continue the publication should it become necessary.
Mr. Pilsbry who had the unreserved confidence of the author has succeeded him in his ofiice and will edit the work according to the plan.
It will be published by the Conchological Section of the Academy of which Mr. Pilsbry is the Conservator Mr. Tryon published the first volume of Structural and Systematic Conchology in 1882  the second in 1883 and the third and last volume in 1884.
The three volumes contain 1195 octavo pages of text illustrated by 140 plates of 3087 figures.
During the last ten years of his life Mr. Tryon wrote 5262 octavo pages on conchology illustiated by 1007 plates of 21576 figures.
To the labor of composition the business cares of publication were added  he was the publisher of his own works.
Until his admission into the Friends' Central School October 1850 whatever religious impressions he may have imbibed in childhood if any came from the Sunday School and the example and teaching of his parents who wre Lutherans.
After leaving school June 1853 he became interested in the Society of Friends and regularly attended its meetings during several years.
For reasons no doubt conclusive and satisfactory to himself he left the meetings of the Friends and from about the year 1876 he was usually present at the stated services of the First Unitarian Church of Philadelphia.
When it was proposed about 1883 to construct a new building for the church Mr. Tryon was chosen one of its trustees.
The work interested him.
He gave very generously 1000 in aid of its completion.
He was long chairman of the Society's committee on music and until his death was prominent among those who in various ways actively promoted the interests of the church.
He was not however rigidly sectarian.
Knowing that there is difference on every question that interests men his natural spirit of tolerance swayed his views and conduct relatively to those holding opinions opposite to his own.
He printed for private circulation a pamphlet entitled.
Church and Stage with the motto Fiat justitia mat ccelum.
It contains twelve octavo pages and is dated March 15 1880.
The object of the paper is to uphold the drama as a proper means of popular instruction in spite of its general condemnation by clergymen.
After stating substantially that in western Europe as well as in ancient Greece the stage is the ofFspring of the ceremonies of public worship  that the mystery play which followed the liturgical drama was the first form of the serious national stage in England France Italy Spain and Germany he contends that in as much as the theatre has originated independently and exists under many types of civilization  Chinese Japanese Indian Greek Roman and niodern European  and the influence of the Christian Church exerted against it through so many centuries has failed to extirpate it the institution is likely to continuously thrive.
Therefore instead of persistently denouncing the stage it would be more politic to kindly endeavor to point out and eliminate from it all acting that is in any degree detrimental to morality.
His manner of treating the subject may be seen in the following quotations   The first charge is ' that dramas are frequently immoral stories abounding in covert or open indecencies of language or action  sometimes actually blasphemous' We appeal to any regular theatre goer whether his experience does not partially confirm this.
Even those who frequent dramatic representations with the intention of encouraging only meritorious and unobjectionable plays occasionally through ignorance of the matter of some new drama or misled by uncandid notices of the press find themselves ' assisting ' at representations quite bad enough to destroy their faith in the theatre.
Our own experience however and we believe that it will be borne out by the experience of every playgoer who has not depraved instincts is that plays are usually entirely innocent and those of a serious character are intended to and do inculcate good morals and right living that they teach man's whole duty with no Avords are more expressive dramatic force  that is to say they make an impression such as can never be made by either reading or lecture  for to the power of trained declamation is added the verisimilitude of scenery and action.
The eye as well as the ear receives and transmits the lesson to the brain and heart.
No sermon can be so effectual for good simply preached from the pulpit as when it is embodied in appropriate action   that brings it home to us in all its reality  it is no longer a mere abstraction.
The play's the thing Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the kino. 
Such is a good play better than the best sermon not only more powerful but more farreaching in its beneficent mission. 
Then if we take up the clerical charge once more and agree that the amount of evil done by conveying this indecency or blas1 See Harper's Magazine Dec. 1888 p. 62. phemy through the vividness of dramatic portrayal is incalcuahle  that it familiarizes the auditors with wrong thinking speaking and doing and thus lowers the moral tone of the community' on the other hand a good play by parity of reasoning should have an equally incalculable good influence and we believe that it has.
The vast majority of men who are not attracted towards the church find themselves unable to comprehend its methods endure its limitations or perhaps appreciate its motives  and for these else left without moral instruction the play yields along with its human interests and entertainment its realistic teaching by example as well as precept. 
Nay more the clergyman who objects to the representation of the prayer scene in ' Hamlet' does not hesitate to read the passage or to hear it read perhaps by the very actor who is accustomed to play the part and who will throw into it all the emotion and all the action that the lecture platform permits him.
He will even listen to this recital in the opera house probably and without alarming his conscience ' because it is not a dramatic performance but only a recital.'
 Thus to be consistent it seems that we must at least tolerate upon the stage that which we approve in the library or lecture room.
But this point is not yet exhausted  there are various conceptions of morality perhaps and that of the churchman is not necessarily the highest.
No one will deny that among theatregoers are to be found persons who are as cultivated in religion morals and manners as tender of conscience as responsive to the call of duty as any of the abstainers.
Is it not rather illiberal then to assume that these persons only visit the theatre because they in this particular disregard the voice of conscience
Again the lower classes of mankind who frequent the sensational secondclass play who read the equally sensational secondclass ' weekly  ' are they to be frowned down on account of the vulgarity of their amusements
The uncultured cannot become educated christian people at a bound  generations of refining influences are required to effect the transformation.
For these men and women in process of enlightenment with yet unformed or badly formed tastes the theatre is a civilizing agent of far greater power than it is for their betters. 
It may be taken for granted that actors as well as audiences are susceptible to the moral or immoral lessons of the drama and if.
as Ave assert the vast majority of plays exert great though unobtrusive moral influence then so far as their profession may be supposed to affect their conduct we should expect to find actors respectable and worthy the acquaintance of the pure and noble.
But it will be said there is abundant evidence that at least many actors are dissolute people that they live low vagabond lives are indecent in language and conduct drunkards gamesters irreligious.
The evidence alas 
is abundant and if it could be proven that the proportion of actors wdio are disreputable is larger than in other professions we might accept the fact as some evidence of the cause assigned for it  but it is notorious that in all public professions lapses from rectitude are numerous. 
A word in conclusion concerning those wdio whilst despising the stage and its associations yet avail themselves of its fruits.
They owe their best music to its inspiration  their best choir singers there received their education  their minister is himself indebted to it either directly or indirectly for the force and grace of style and declamation which render him so impressive.
Without the stage you would not be possessed of Shakespeare  whose single influence for good has certainly far outweighed all the evil which the theatre has ever done mankind.
Those who while discountenancing the theatre read Shakespeare or hear him read  who listen with delight to the operatic overture or aria  who hang entranced upon the eloquence of the rostrum are meanly I had almost Avritten dishonestly enjoying the fruits of an institution which they condemn.
Whether Mr. Tryon's championship of the stage be acceptable or not few jDersons will fail to perceive in it his philantrophic disposition and love of justice as well as the degree of his inclination to render homage to the Muses.
To those who would withhold all such matters from a biographical account of a scientist as not pertinent and to those whose hostility to the theatre is relentless the above citations may seem too long  but they ma be excused.
They prove that his mental scope took in very much more than the truths of natural science that the comparatively inferior and ignorant classes of society had his symjmthy and that he was ready to help improve their mental and moral level.
Thus they indicate a feature of his character not portrayed elsewhere in his writings.
None will deny that a feature partly or wholly left out obscures or spoils the likeuess even in a iinished painting of a friend.
Mr. Tryon was notably cautious and conservative in scientific work.
The personal reputation incident to success he did not appreciate very highly nor regard to be among the objects of scientific research.
Just as a private in the ranks forgetful of all the labor and perhaps blood he has contributed towards it delights in the glory of his regiment wholly unmindful of the personal distinction he may have fairly earned for himself so INIr.
Tryon toiled to promote the welfare and fame of the academy within the bounds of which he seemed to have merged his scientific aspirations.
Few have been like him in this respect but his example may have followers.
Natural modesty an almost reclusive disposition made him reluctant to hold office.
He often refused to permit friends to nominate him for prominent positions in the society and was apparently indiflerent to the honor of membership in other associations.
He did not care to publish that he was a corresponding member of the California Academy of Natural Sciences from December 1862  of the Boston Society of Natural History from March 1864  of the Royal Society of Tasmania from June 1886 nor of any other in Avhich his name had been enrolled.
Mr. Tryon's good sense and unselfish nature  his cheerful unpretentious deportment at all times won for him affectionate respect and enduring friendships.
Because he was punctual prompt and efficient in doing within the limits of official duty whatever concerned the interests of the acadeiny he deserved and had the unreserved confidence of all.
The quantity and quality of work done during his hapjiy career are perennial vouchers of his unremitting industry and varied ability.
It is doubted whether a collegiate training and the Master's degree would have facilitated his progress and enabled him to acquit himself better in any sense.
A genius for discovering his own deficiencies and then filling them by opportune selfhelp was a practical substitute for an Alma Mater.
Mr. Tryon's abiding desire to increase our knowledge of conchology which he has done so much to advance is manifest in his last will and testament dated March 18th 1886.
He bequeathed to the Conchological Section of the Academy certain real estate to be a source of a permanent trust fund the income from which is to be applied to augment the Conservator's salary to increase the collection of shells as well as to other purposes at the discretion of the Section.
All profits which may be derived from his couchological works and from his conchological publication business are to be added to the fund.
This provision in connection with the present vast collections and an almost perfect library goes far towards establishing in the United States the centre of conchology at the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Mr. Tryon was methodical in all his ways and unswervingly firm of purpose.
He always did what he believed to be right in face of all opposition  but he tranquilly considered argument against his opinions and gracefully yielded them whenever he could not answer it.
He passed much of his time in the academy at work among its collections and books.
For health's sake he appropriated time for daily exercise in the open air without much regard to the state of the weather.
On Saturday January 28 1888 while the temperature ranged between 12 and 17 F. and the Avind was blowing freshly from the northwest he walked briskly in an easterly direction more than a mile and returning faced the wind.
Paroxysms of difficult breathing forced him to stop many seconds and several times.
On reaching home he was much depressed physically  his circulation was abnormally slow and weak but he soon rallied and seemed to be surely recovering.
In the course of two or three days a kind of roseola to which he had been liable at times since an attack of scarlet fever in childhood apjeared and towards the last became hemorrhagic.
He died February 5 the eighth day after his cold walk.
His fiither a brother and a sister survive him.
His mother died December 23 1869.
He was a bachelor.
As far as known he was at no time inclined to change his celibate condition.
Accepting a definition that poetry is merely the blossom and bloom of human knowledge Mr. Tryon was Laureate of the kingdom of the mollusca.
He well knew all its inhabitants  they were thousands  and characterized every typical one in descriptive lines  full of knowledge but without poetic cadence or poetic measure of any kind.
But his whole attention was not given to those mollusks.
He had eyes for all natural objects.
He was fond of flowers had studied botany successfully and learned to botanize.
In the summer it was his custom to take long walks in the country.
On reaching home from those walks he was almost sure to be laden with flowers and grasses gathered by the way some for study in connection with his herbarium which was large and others to bedeck certain rooms in the house.
And now and then a mineralogist was surprised to hear him talk so knowingly about minei'als.
Indeed his acquaintance Avith natural history generally was sufficiently intimate to make the title of naturalist appropi'iate to him.
His knowledge of nature and natural things was a pure accomplishment in no sense associated with his breadwining work while he was the successful man of business.
This imperfect sketch of an eminent benefactor of the academy is fittingly closed with the following tributary stanzas written by his friend our fellow member Mr. John Ford Feb. 15 1888.
In memoriam.
As falls the oak mature and strong in limb A giant 'mong its fellows tall and grand  So fell the peer of those whom Science crowns Th' immortal Tryon type of noblest men.
Not human hearts alone do feel the blow That struck him down in life's jueridian  The leafy woods the vales and quiet streams Where Nature's gems he sought alike are grieved.
E'en Neptune mourns the loss of one who knew His seaborn children all by sight and name  And from their games the Tritons sadly turn To breathe a requiem through horns of pearl.
His form is gone but deathless evermore On pages manifold his thoughts remain  And there like ripened fruits they wait the hands Of all who would their charming flavor prove.
Though well we know the victor's fadeless crown His brow adorns and that he dwells in peace Yet do our hearts remembering the past.
Still long to meet him face to face again.
1888.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
413 List of Papers and Books written BY George W. Tryon Jr. On the raollusea of Harper's Ferry Va. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1861 pp.
396399.
Synopsis of the recent species of Gastrochrenidpe a family of acephalous mollusca.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1861 pp.
465494.
On the classification and synonymy of the recent species of Plioladidre.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1862 pp.
191220.
Description of a new genus Diplothyra and species of Pholadidoe Dactylina Chiloensis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1862 pp.
449450.
Notes on American Fresh Water Shells with descriptions of two new species Vivipara Texana Amnicola depressa..
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1862 pp.
451453.
Monograph of the family Teredidse.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1862 pp.
453482.
Contributions towards a monography of the order of Pholadacea with descriptions of new species.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 pp.
143146.
Descriptions of two new species of Fresh Water mollusca from Panama Planorbis Fieldii Amnicola Panamensis.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 p. 146.
Description of a new Exotic Melania M.
Helense..
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 pp.
146147.
Descriptions of new species of Fresh Water Mollusca belonging to the families Aranicolidje Valvatidse and Limnteidse inhabiting California.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 pp.
147150.
Description of a new species Pleurocera P.
jlicatum..
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 pp.
279280.
Description of a new species of Teredo T. Thomsonii from New Bedford Mass.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 pp.
280281.
Descriptions of two new species of Mexican LandShells Helix Remondi Cyclotus Cooperi..
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 p. 281.
Synonymy of the species of Strepomatidie a family of Fluviatile Mollusca inhabiting North America.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1863 pp.
306322.
 Synonomy of the species of Strepomatidse a family of Fluviatile Mollusca inhabiting North America.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1864 pp.
2448 92104 1865 pp.
1936.
Description of two new species of Strepomatidre  Goniobasis Haldemani Pleurocera Conradi.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 p. 38.
Descriptions of new species of Pholadidae.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 pp.
3940.
Observations of the new genus lo.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 pp.
4144.
Catalogue of mollusca collected by Prof. D. S. Sheldon at Davenport Iowa.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 pp.
6870.
Observations on the family Strepomatidae.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 pp.
97135.
Catalogue of the sjoecies of Physa inhabiting the United States.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 pp.
165173.
Descriptions of new species of Melania.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
I 1865 pp.
216218.
Descriptions of new species of Amnicola Pomatiopsis Somatogyrus Gabbia Hydrobia and Rissoa.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
i 1865 pp.
219222.
 Descriptions of New Species of North American Limnseidre.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
i 1865 p. 223231. Review of the Goniobases of Oregon and California.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
i 1865 pp.
236246.
Catalogue of the species of Limnsea inhabiting the United States.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
i 1865 pp.
207258.
Description of a new species of Mercenaria M. fulgurans Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
i 1865 p. 297.
Monograph of the family Strepomatidre.
Amer.
Journ Conchol.
i 1865 pp.
299341  ii 1866 pp.
1452 115133.
An abnormal specimen of Planorbis bicarinatus.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 p. 3.
Descriptions of new freshwater shells of the United States.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
47.
Descriptions of new exotic freshwater Mollusca.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
811.
Description of a new species of Rissoa  R. exilis.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 p. 12.
Note on Mr. Pease's species of Polynesian Phaneropneuraoua.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 p. 82.
Description of a new species of Vivipara  V. Waltonii.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
108110.
Descriptions of new Fluviatile Mollusca.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
111113.
Observations on an abnormal specimen of Physa gyrina.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 p. 114.
Note on the lingual dentition of the Strepomatidse.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
134135.
Monograph of the terrestrial mollusca of the United States.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
II 1866 pp.
218277 306327  iv 1869 pp.
522.
Description of a new species Colimina  C. Leai.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
297298.
Descriptions of new species of Melaniidre and Melanopsidse.
Amer.
Jour.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
299301.
Description of a new species of Septifer  S. Trautwineana.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 p. 301.
Description of a new species of Helix  H. Bridgesi.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 p. 303.
On the terrestrial Mollusca of the Guano Island of Navassa.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
ii 1866 pp.
304305.
Notes on Mollusca collected by Dr. F. V. Hayden in Nebraska.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
iv 1869 pp.
150151.
Catalogue of the families Saxicavidae Myidse and Corbulidse.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
iv 1869 Append.
 pp.
5968.
Catalogue of the family Tellinidre.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
iv 1869 Append.
 pp.
72126.
Descriptions of new species of terrestrial Mollusca from Andaman Islands Indian Archipelago.
Amer.
Jour.
Conchol.
v 1870 pp.
100111.
Descriptions of new species of marine bivalve mollusca in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
v 1870 p. 170172  vi 1871 pp.
2324.
Note on Cyclophorus foliaceus.
Reeve non Chemnitz and C. Leai Tryon.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
vi 1871 pp.
2526.
Notes on Dr. James Lewis' paper On the shells of the Holston River.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
vii 1872 pp.
8688.
Catalogue of the family Cyprinidse.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
vii 1872 p. 252.
Catalogue of the recent species of the family of Glaucononiyidse.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
vii 1872 pp.
253254.
Catalogue of the recent species of the family Petricolidse.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
vii 1872 pp.
255258.
Catalogue of the recent species of the family Cardiidse.
Amer.
Journ.
Conchol.
vii 1872 pp.
259275.
Catalogue and synonymy of the recent species of the family Lucinidje.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad. 1872 pp.
8296.
Catalogue of the family Chamidse.
Proc Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Philad.
1872 pp.
116120.
Catalogue of the family Chametrachteidre.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad. 1872 pp.
120121.
Descriptions of three new species of marine bivalve mollusca Crassatella Adelina Lucina distinguenda Circe bidivaricata.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad. 1872 p. 130.
Catalogue and synonymy of the family Galeommidse.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1872 pp.
222226.
Catalogue and synonymy of the family Leptonidce.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad. 1872 pp.
227229.
Catalogue and synonymy of the family Laseidae.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1872 pp.
229234.
Catalogue and synonymy of the family Astartidse.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1872 pp.
245258.
Catalogue of the family Solemyidse.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1872 p. 258.
On a series of land and fluviatile Mollusca from Utah.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sc.
Philad.
1873 pp.
285286.
The complete writings of Constautine Smaltz Raiinesque on Recent and Fossil Conchology.
Edited by William G. Binney and George W. Tryon Jr. members of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
8vo pp.
96408  144 plates 3 figures 69.
Bailliere Brothers New York  J.
B. Bailliere et Fils Paris  HBailliere London  C. Bailly Bailliere Madrid.
1864.
A Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca inhabiting the United States.
With illustrations of all the species.
By George W. Tryon Jr. editor of the American Journal of Conchology member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia  corresponding member of the Boston Society of Natural History  the Lyceum of New York  the California Academy of Natural Sciences  the Zoologischen botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien etc.
Published by the author 625 Market street Philadelphia 1866.
8vo pp.
159jXLIV ilates 18 with colored duplicates figures 430.
Bailliere Brothers New York J.
B. Bailliere et Fils Paris Triibner  Co. London  C. BaillyBailliere Madrid  Asher  Co. Berlin.
A Monograph of the Fresh water univalve mollusca of the United States in continuation of Prof S. S. Haldeman's work published under the above title.
By George W. Tryon Jr.
Published by the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
1870.
8vo pp.
238 plates 32.
Amex'ican Marine Conchology  or descriptions of the shells on the Atlantic coast of the United States from Maine to Florida.
By George W. Tryon Jr.. member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Published by the author.
No.
19 N. Sixth street Philadelphia 1873.
8vo pp.
208  plates 44  figures 550.
Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections 253.
Land and FreshWater Shells of North America.
Part IV.
Strepomatidse American Melanians.
By George W. Tryon Jr.. Smithsonian Institution Washington December 1873.
8vo pp.
LV435  838 figures intercalated with the text.
Manual of Conchology  Structural and Systematic with illustrations of the species.
By George W. Tryon Jr. Conservator of the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Published by the authoi Academy of Natural Sciences Corner Race and Nineteenth streets.
Vol.
I 1879.
Cephalopoda.
8vo p. 316 plates 112 figures 671 Vol.
II 1880.
Muricidre including Purpurinse 8vo pp.
289  plates 70  figures 977.
Vol.
Ill 1881.
Tritonidse Fusidne Buccinidae.
8vo pp.
310 plates 87  figures 1287.
Vol.
IV 1882.
Nassidfe Turbinellidttj Volutidse Mitridse.
8vo pp.
276 plates 58 figures 1345.
Vol.
V 1883.
Margiuellidte Olividie Columbellidse.
8vo pp.
276 plates 63 figures 1351.
Vol.
VI 1884.
Conidse Pleurotomidse.
8vo pp.
400  plates 65  figures 1550.
Vol.
VII 1885.
Terebridre Cancellariidre Strombidse Cyprseidse Ovulidse Cassididse Doliidse.
8vo pp.
309  plates 75  figures 1301.
28 Vol.
VIII 1886.
Naticidte Calyptrreidre Onustida TurritelHdre Vermetidte Ciiecidse Eulimidre Pyramidellidfe TurbonillidDe.. 8vo pp.
461  plates 79  figures 1582.
Vol.
IX 1887.
Solariidte lanthinidie Tricliotropidje Scalariidfe Cerithiide Rissoidre Littorinidte.
8vo pp.
488  plates 71  figures 1991.
The first series will be completed iu eleven or twelve volumes.
Second series Terrestrial Mollusca.
Vol.
I 1885.
Testacellidre 01eacinide Streptaxidre Helicoidea Vitrinidje Limacide Arionidte etc.
8vo pp.
364  plates 60  figures 1698.
Vol.
II 1886.
Zonitidfe.
8vo pp.
265  plates 64  figures 2072.
Vol.
Ill 1887.
Helicidse begun  to be completed in three or four volumes.
8vo pp.
313  plate 63  figures 2664.
Third series  Marine Bivalves  4 or 5 volumes.
Fourth series  Fluviatile genera  4 or 5 volumes.
Note  The second third and fourth series will be continued and completed by H. A. Pilsbry Conservator of the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Church and Stage Philadelphia INIarch 15 1880 printed for private use.
8vo pp.
12.
Structural and Systematic Conchology  An introduction to the study of the Mollusca.
By George W. Tryon Jr. Conservator of the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
Published by the author and issued from the Academy.
Vol.
I 1882.
8vo pp.
312  plates 22  figures 256.
Vol.
II 1883.
8vo pp.
430  plates 69  figures 1339.
Vol.
Ill 1884.
8vo pp.
453  plates 49  figures 1492.
1888.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
419 December 4.
Mr. Charles Morris in the chair.
Twentyfive persons pressnt.
Theories of the Formation oj Coral Islands.
 Mr. Charles Morris remarked that there exist as is well known two theories of the formation of coral islands the subsidence theor' of Charles Darwin and the recent theory propounded by John jNIurray and others which claims that the phenomena can be explained without calling in the aid of subsidence.
It was not his purpose to offer anargument on this controverted question and he would simply say that the Darwin theory seemed to him much the most probable the objections to it being in his view of the case far less cogent than those to the Murray theory.
If the subsidence theory were acceited however there was one consequence necessarily deducible from it which so far as he was aware had not yet been definitely considered and which was not without scientific importance.
The area occupied by coral islands in the Pacific is as stated by Dana 6000 miles in length and from 2000 to 2500 miles in width thus covering from 120t0000 to 15000000 square miles.
This includes a blank central area of 1000000 square miles in which the subsidence is supposed to have been too rapid to permit coral growth beyond which is a region of small atolls and outside this the region of ordinary atolls.
Outside this again is a region in which bari'ier and fringing reefs replace atolls and if this region be included the total area of subsidence must have been according to Le Conte about 20000000 square miles.
The depth of subsidence is variously stated.
Dana considers that the extreme subsidence was at least 9000 or 10000 feet.
Later authorities oive it at about three miles.
As resrards the averasre subsidence of the whole area it may perhaps be safely assumed as not less than 5000 feet possibly considerably more.
If the Darwin subsidence theory be accepted then an area of sea bottom equal to that of the largest continent must have sunk bodily to a depth of at least a mile.
This subsidence may have been correlative with a considerable elevation of the land surface but there is no reason to believe that there was any equal elevation of other portions of the ocean bed.
There are many evidences of local elevation but all of them taken together are unimportant as compared with the great subsidence over the coral islana area and may have been balanced bv local subsidence elsewhere.
Yet such an immense subsidence with no corresponding elevation of the ocean bottom could not take place without adding greatly to the capacity of the ocean basin.
It formed what we may speak of as a huge valley in the ocean bed of 20000000 square miles iu area and one mile in average depth.
The filling of such a valley with water must necessarily have caused a marked lowering of the general ocean level.
If the figures above given be assumed as correct it is easy to calculate the amount of depression of sea level.
The area iu question is equal to that of Asia and Europe combined and the effect of its sinking would be equivalent to that of tiie sinking of the Eurasian continent till covered with water to the averaire depth of one mile since to fill such a valley in the ocean bed would require as much water as to cover a continent sinking to the same depth.
The area named is very nearly one seventh of the whole ocean area and to fill it to a depth of one mile would cause a general oceanic depression of oneseventh of this depth or about 750 feet.
If the average subsidence be taken at a somewhat greater figure say 7000 feet the consequence Avould be a depression of the ocean level of 1000 feet.
This is no fanciful conclusion.
If the subsidence stated really took place without important elevation of the ocean bed elsewhere such a lowering of the general ocean level must necessarily have occurred to an extent governed by the average extent of subsidence.
The effect on the relations of land and ocean altitude would be equivalent to an elevation of the whole land surface of the earth to a height of 750 or 1000 feet or some other height dependant on the real degree of subsidence.
Such an effect must have left its marks in the exposure of considerable areas of new land along sloping shores in the draining of hays and estuaries the possible conversion of bays into partly or fully landlocked seas and other drainage results.
In fact if such a virtual elevation of all the shore regions of the earth took place it would seem as if it must have left some generally traceable indications which would furnish an argument in favor of the subsidence theory.
Yet it may have been so complicated w'ith actual elevations and d.pressions of the land surface as to destroy evidences of its existence in most localities.
That land drainage and shore elevation did take place to a considerable extent during the Tertiary epoch is acknowledged but whether these were due to actual elevation or to a sinking of the ocean level is a problem which cannot be de'iiiitely solved without much fuller evidence than we possess at pnsent.
The following was ordered to be printed  1888.
421
