CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS.
No.
IV.
BY THOMAS MEEHAN.
On Secund Inflorescence.
So far as the author of this paper knows no explanation has been given as to why flowers are often secund on the rachis.
Sachs goes into the subject somewhat Text Book of Botany English Ed. p. 189 but evidently without being clear in his own mind as to the proper method of accounting for it under the prevalent conceptions of phyllotaxis.
To those who have been able to examine many species of the thickstemmed Begonias to which this author refers as having leaves from one side of the stems only it must be evident that they are but herbaceous species that have learned to become erect.
What are thickened creeping rhizomes in some species have become ascending upright stems in these shrubby ones  and they have carried along in this evolutionary movement the unilateral character of producing the foliage which must of necessity prevail in a procumbent stem.
This change of the horizontal to the erect position is apparent in many plants especially in ferns.
Tree ferns have no rhizomes because the trunk of the tree fern is itself but an erect rhizome.
In draining old swamps the author has taken out old rhizomes of Osmunda regalis many feet in length and three inches in diameter in no way differing from the trunks of the smaller arborescent ferns except a vertical tendency in the remains of the stipes.
There are instances on record where this fern has become wholly arborescent  that is to say instead of producing the usual creeping rhizoma the rhizome has become erect.
But whether that rhizome when erect continued the lateral arrangement of its former position as in the allied case of Begonia it did not seem to occur to the observer to note.
Aain there is no difference in character between the thick underground rhizome of Yucca filamentosa which never has an erect stem from the erect stems of its allies  Y. aloifolia Y. gloriosa c. which have no creeeping rhizomas.
That the latter are but herbaceous species that have learned to elevate their rhizomes while assuming other characters will be acknowledged by any reflective mind.
That this is true of other stoloniferous or rhizomatous plants horticulturists have experience in the strawberry.
Leaves and an occasional root will sometimes appear from the apex of the common peduncle which some accident has bent in early stages to the ground.
But a perfect illustration is seen in a variety known as the Brush strawberry which never makes any stolons or as they are technically called  runners because as is readily seen what should have been runners in the usual varieties have become erect and with erection have changed their character to flower scapes.
The leaves are quite abundant among the flowers and are on one side as they are on the thick stemmed Begonias and as they would be on a strawberry runner trailing on the ground.
It is evident that under the conception of a continuous spiral arrangement the leaves from a stem arranged for horizontal growth could not all spring from one side as in the Begonias and other plants referred to  nor is there any method conceivable except that each leaf or bud in succession should be made to twist in contrary directions.
AVe can see that this is so in the thick flowering shoots of the Yucca filamentosa where the suppressed leaves reduced to mere bracts show the alternate twisting from right to left and from left to right.
Fig.
1.
Examining the flowers on the branchlets of the panicle we see that they also alternately twist in opposite directions and that they are secund.
In fact the flower scape of this Yucca is but a rhizoma forced to assume an erect position changed in many of its characters by that unknown law which comes in a highly accelerated growth and results in changing Fig.
i. leaves and stem into inflorescence although not wholly affecting the unilateral character that prevailed in its horizontal condition.
If we examine any cases of secund inflorescence we may in most instances see that this condition arises from the alternate twisting of the pedicels in contrary directions.
So far as the author can now recall the secund inflorescence aside from that classed as scorpioid does not exist among annuals and we may assume that it is rare in that class.
In perennial herbaceous plants it is common.
Conceding that as a general law plants in time come to adapt themselves to the best conditions of existence and that as a general law it would be better for leaves and flowers to be scattered equally around an axis than to be crowded on one side the conclusion is rationally reached that a secund inflorescence is a comparatively recent stage in evolution wherein a geotropic stem has assumed an erect condition.
Again the author does not know that it has been so recorded by phytobiological authors but growth in plants evidently follows the law that prevails in most forms of motion and is rhythmic and not continuous.
Rest and activity follow in rapid succession as the parts of a plant grow.
It is during these various stages of rest and activity that the successive morphological changes take place.
It is probable that during these resting spells the changes in the torsional direction occur.
It has been shown by the author of this paper see Proceedings of Academy 1886 page 291 that after the resting spell that follows the expansion of some malvaceous flowers they take the opposite direction in twisting as they close.
The plants there noted are annuals and the inflorescence is not secund.
The alternate twists are in contrary directions during successive resting periods in the same flower.
Noting that in an allied order a member Mahernia verticilfata had secund flowers it was thought probable the expanding corolla itself might show alternate twisting in contrary directions.
This proved to be the case the lower flower of the two twisting against the sun and the upper with the sun.
Fig.
2 represents a frontface outline showing the opposite direction  of the twists in the two flowers of the common peduncle.
J Notwithstanding the flower does not expand to the extent the malvaceous plants referred to above do and the consequent difficulty the separate petals must have in changing the overlap in fading yet numbers succeed showing that Fig 2 here also the return spiral twist is in a different direction and is not a mere coiling up of the same expanded spiral chain.
Distinct spiral directions in the growth of branches on the same plant have been occasionally noted see Goodale Bot.
Text Book p. 407.
The object of this paper is to show that it is very common in the inflorescence and that it is indeed the cause of that section known as secund.
The author would show that the inverse of Dr. Gray's definition of a stolon may be accepted.
He says   A stolon is a prostrate or reclined branch which strikes root at the tip and then develops an ascending growth which becomes an independent plant.
We now see that the stolon itself with its unilateral arrangements may again ascend and become a branch.
The author confines himself in this paper to those forms of scorpioidal inflorescence that are not usually considered in connection with the subject and which evidently occur by the twisting of the spiral growths.
Those forms of unilateral inflorescence more properly regarded as scorpioidal and treated at some length in Gray's Botanical Text Book Sixth Edition page 163 would have to be examined from a different standpoint.
Note on Pinus pungens and its allies.
Until comparatively few years ago the Table Mountain Pine Pinus pungens Mx. was not found north of the Potomac.
Professor Porter found old cones at Huntingdon Pennsylvania and an aged local botanist at Bethlehem in the same State told the author of this that he had found old cones there.
Since then the author found living trees in abundance at Port Clinton subsequently in Dauphin County near Harrisburg and in January of this year near Lewistown in Mifflin County.
It is safe to say it is found in the whole Allegheny range through the breadth of the State.
It is remarkable that a tree so widely scattered in this region should have been so long overlooked and that the only person reported as having collected it in a living condition should be the writer.
An interesting fact is that in all the Pennsylvania localities it seems to be found only in the upper Silurian formation In the recently discovered Lewistown locality the rock is fossiliferous being full of the casts of Brachiapodic shells.
It is just possible it may reach the lower Devonian formation.
Another interesting point is that at Lewistown all five of the Pennsylvania species of the true Pines are growing together  Pinus Strobus P. mitis P. inops P. rigida and P. pungens
P. Strobus and P. mitis make fine trees  some of the latter taller and four feet in circumference.
One of the distinctive features of the species of Pine and which cannot often be described among their specific character is their habit of growth.
By this they can be distinguished at a distance.
Pinus pungens in this respect is seen to be more closely related to Pinus rigida than to any of its neighbors.
The side branches often branch and rebranch in Pinus rigida taking on in this respect the character of a deciduous tree.
Besides this the spurs which in all pines are at the base of the fascicles of leaves growing towards the circumference of the branch year after year as the branch increases in thickness but rarely getting far enough forward to form  secondary leaves  in Pinus rig Ida manage in time to get beyond the bark of the main branches again become foliaceous and produce a dense annual crop of needles or secondary leaves along the whole surface.
This has not been noted on Pinus pungens though it has the character of making vigorous and much ramifying side branches more strongly developed.
In many cases the sidebranches compete in vigor with the leaders till the tree loses the specific character of most pines in having a distinctive trunk or leading stem after it has reached no great height from the ground.
Another feature in which it agrees with Pinus rigida is in the habit of bearing flowers both male and female on comparatively young plants.
In the general characteristics of branches foliage and cones it is easy to see the general relationship to P. rigida.
In one respect however there is a remarkable difference.
Pinus rigida is in its cones among the most variable of Pines.
In his paper on  Variations in nature read by the author of this before the American Association for the Advancement of Science at its Montreal meeting a series of cones was used in illustration showing a complete line between P. rigida P. serotina and P. Tceda the changes being so gradual that so far as the cones evidenced no line could be drawn between the three distinct enough as they are when the intermediates become  missing links.
In the hills about Lewistown some trees of P. rigida were noted with cones little larger than goodsized Filberts.
Pinus inops also varies very much in the form of its cones.
But Pinus pungens owing its parentage as it probably does to P. rigida is remarkably constant in the size and form of its cones.
Of the hundreds of trees that I have seen in the whole Allegheny range from North Carolina to the Schuylkill river the cones seem uniform in size and other characters.
In the unexpected appearance of a plant with which we are familiar in another region we not onlv look for similarity in the geological features but for companion plants as well.
In the author's memory Polypodium incanum is associated growing on rocks and trees with Pinus pungens in Virginia.
It was natural to look for it here but only its ally Polypodium vulgare was to be seen.
It is possibly a lowland fern in its origin pressing up iuto these higher regions long after the exposure of the Silurian rock in these upper elevations.
At this dreary winter January season the following few companions could only be noted  Quercus coccinea Q. Prinus monticola Q. tinctoria Juglans nigra Carya tomentosa Castanea Americana Betula lenta Acer rubrum Ostrya Virginica Rubus Canadensis Rosa humilis Juniperus Virginiana Corydalis flavula a wholly spineless Crataegus making a dense bush six feet high Danthonia spicata Pyenanthemum muticum and numerous introduced plants that we expect to find everywhere.
On Corydalis flavula D. C. In January in Pine woods near Lewistown I noted some Corydalis growing abundantly under Pinus rigida and Pinus Strobus plants of which I brought home potted and kept in a cool greenhouse.
By the end of February they were in flower and proved to be Corydalis flavula D. C..
Fumaria flavula Rafinesque.
Being able to watch their growth from day to day I found a few points seemingly worth recording.
It is customary to say of this and allied species that the  racemes are opposite the leaves or supraaxillary Torrey  Gray p. 691 as describing that which is apparent.
This is fair but it is deceptive as to the actual fact.
A raceme is but a branch arrested in its full axial development and it is doubtful whether an axial growth no matter what form of inflorescence it may assume ever appears except from the axis of a leaf or from the axis of the point where a leaf ought to be.
To my mind it is a question as to whether every flower  each flower being regarded morphologically as an arrested branch  must not of necessity be terminal as regards its immediate axis  and whatever lateral direction it may subsequently assume comes from a renewal of growth near or within the same axial line the more or less horizontal positions assumed resulting by a pushing over when the new axial growth is resumed.
That this is the case in this Corydalis is evident.
The 1 raceme i at first a terminal spike.
At its base is a leaf with an axillary bud.
This bud as it grow T s to a shoot displaces the spike assumes the central position and the spike then becomes a  supraaxillary raceme with the newly made axis between it and the leaf to which it is axillary.
1 Since this paper was prepared for publication the author notes that the raceme so called continues its growth to a number of nodes after the last flower has bten produced though the leaves at each node are still bractiform.
Only for the fact that the leaves on the axis are reduced to mere bracts it would be nearly as proper to say that the flowers are axillary and solitary along the branches'' as to say they are racemose.
An interesting fact is that at this node where the terminal growth becomes a supraaxillary raceme the petiole has assumed a sheathins base and the two lower minute leaf blades are attached to the sheath in such a way that in ordinary cases we should be likely to conclude they were stipules.
But we can see that the petiole of the normal leaf has been arrested in its growth without affecting the laminal portion.
It is as if an inch and a half of the normal petiole had been cut out and a petiolar leaf rendered sessile.
With this arrest of growth has come a tendency to dilation resulting in the sheathing base to the leaf stalk.
The observation is important as furnishing the key to other changes as the inflorescence advances in growth.
Along the raceme are bracts from the axils of which the flower springs.
These are broad and oval and in neither form nor texture like the laminal portions of the ordinary leaf.
They are evidently formed by a dilation of the petiole in the line of and to a greater extent than in the sheathing condition already noticed.
The fertilization of the flower is of peculiar interest.
Mr. Darwin treats of Corydalis under the head of selfsterile plants Crossand Selffertilization chap.
14 though noting there that some species are occasionally selffertile.
This species as growing in my greenhouse is fully selffertile  not one flower failing to produce perfect pods and seeds.
It is very interesting to observe the developing seed vessel as it pushes through the maturing petal carrying on its upcurved stigma a mass of white pollen looking like a snow cap on the top of a green mountain.
Examining the unopened flowers we find that the pollen matures and is actually placed on the stigma long before the corolla has completed its growth  long before it is in any condition to receive the visits of insects.
It is in fact as truly fertilized in the bud as that class of apetalous conditions known as cleistogene flowers can possibly be.
This can be readily understood by observing that in a raceme of ten flowers the lower one only with the pistil having emerged from the closed flower all but the two upper had pollen on their stigmas.
It is a case in which the flowers are arranged for selffertilization with perfect productive results.
Dimorphism in Polygona. 
Flores hermaphrodite is said of the whole section of Polygonacece in which Polygonum is included  but though hermaphrodite they be the hermaphrodism so far as an examination of species growing near the author is concerned is of a character hitherto unsuspected by botanists.
While preparing the chapter on Polygonum arifolium for Native Flowers and Ferns of the United States 1879 Vol.
II p. 154 series I a double system of flowers was noted  one smalleithan the other  but as both of them seemed to have the sexual organs perfect with anthers abundantly polliniferous no reference was made to the fact but the whole matter was laid over for future investigation.
Attention was drawn to the subject a few years subsequently by noting numbers of nectarloving Vespce as well as the common honeybee vigorously at work on the smaller flowers of Polygonum Virginianum.
These smaller flowers are pure white and after midday expand sufficiently to expose the whole sexual organs to easy ocular examination.
There are two series of stamens.
The exterior lean outwardly the inner bend inwards and the abundantly polliniferous anthers are in actual contact with the apparently perfect stigmas.
The whole gynoecial system seems perfect.
Those who speculate in these matters would surely say the flowers were specialized for selffertilization.
At the base of the inner series of stamens are glands which copiously exude nectar attracting the insects above noted.
It was evident however that none of these small though apparently perfect flowers ever produced seeds.
On the same plant are other flowers larger and of a greenish purple tint.
From these flowers the styles with their hooked apices protruding extend considerably beyond the sepals.
These flowers always produce perfect seeds.
Though the smaller flowers seem specialized for selffertilization in view of the fact that they produce no seeds that they are abundantly nectariferous and polliniferous and that the larger flowers project the pistils beyond the closed sepals apparently out of reach of ownpollen and yet are abundantly fertile the general conclusion that the whole arrangement is for crossfertilization would surely be pardonable.
During the several years past in which continuous observations were made no insect has been noted visiting the fertile flowers.
It is safe to say they are not fertilized by insect agency.
The nectar in the infertile flowers doubtless serves some good purpose but it .certainly has no reference to crossfertilization by insect agency.
Setting aside as wholly out of the question the production of nectar and the visits of insects in connection with the fertilization of the productive flowers it still remained to be considered whether the pollen notwithstanding its subgelatinous character might not be carried by the wind.
It was subsequently made clear that the pistils did not emerge from the floral envelopes till after fertilization had been accomplished.
Indeed the seed had advanced considerably towards maturity before the styles were projected.
It was only by the increased growth of the achenium following fertilization that the styles became exposed at all.
The flowers are fertilized in the bud  there is no possibility of crossfertilization.
It may be remarked here that the word  crossfertilization is used to express the pollination of a flower by another on the same plant.
The physiological speculations involving questions of benefit to the plant or to the race require the cross to be between different plants growing under separate conditions.
It was but natural to examine other Polygoni in the light of the facts developed by P. Virginianum.
The characters given were found in all cases and still more strongly marked.
These were the smaller lighter colored apparently perfect flowers  expanding in the afternoon gland bearing and nectariferous  abundantly polliniferous but vet infertile.
And there were the larger colored alwaysclosed and yet perfect flowers resulting without an apparent exception in perfect seeds.
In many cases the styles are bent in the bud and the stigmas and anthers are brought together so as to make selffertilization absolutely certain.
Many are in fact truly cleistogamous.
Occasionally with the growth of the fertilized achenium as noted in the case of P. Virginianum the remains of the pistils protrude through the floral envelopes but this is not always the case.
In the light of so much that has been developed in connection with the relations between insects and flowers these studies of Polygoni present an intricate puzzle.
Here are all the facts positively presented required in the theory of crossfertilization in this way.
There is nectar perfect pollen in abundance and insect visitors.
But there are no flowers to be fertilized.
Those that are fertile  the only fertile flowers are absolutely closed to the insects  are in fact cleistogamous.
The following is the list of species on which these observations are founded   P. orientate L. P. Pennsylvanicum L. P. Persicaria L. P. Hydropiper L. P. acre H. B K. P. Virginianum L. P. aviculare L P. arifolium L. P. sagittatum L. On the nature and office of Stipules.
The author has printed a paper in the Proceedings of the Academy 1870 pp.
114117 on the Stipules of Magnolia showing that the stipules not only performed the office of budscales but that the petals were transformed stipules and not metamorphosed leaves as we usually understand them to be.
The good friend whose loss we all deplore Prof. Asa Gray generously examined the manuscript before publication and expressed himself much pleased with the deductions drawn observing however that if his memory served him right some German observer had before suggested that petals are occasionally but modified stipules.
This is so obvious that it would be surprising if the matter had not been discussed somewhere but the author has never been able to discover the treatise that Professor Asa Gray believed he had read on the subject.
It is safe to say that as a general rule stipules are not regarded as of any material importance in the economy of plant life.
In the treatment of this subject they are simply spoken of as  appendages to the leaves referred to as occasionally serving as a budscale and then dismissed from consideration.
There is no essential difference between a stipule and the dilated base of a petiole.
In some natural orders the presence of stipules characterizes every genus  in allied orders the complete stipule may be wanting but the bases of the leaves are widened and become thin.
The leaves are then characterized as having petioles dilated at the base.
It is worthy of remark that in plants having dilated petioles the leaves with the petioles so dilated have much shorter petioles than those on the same plant not dilated  in Ranunculaceae and Umbelliferre for instance.
The same rule obtains in those genera where there is a difference in the size of the stipules in the same plant  some Rosacea.
The size of the stipules is in inverse proportion to the length of the petioles.
It is important to note that elongation is in a measure suppressed in proportion to the development of the stipule or the dilated petiolar base.
This may be seen in the case of Corydalis fiavula see Contributions IV page 58.
It may also be noted in an examination of a stalk of clover or a flowering branch of the rose.
The stipules become larger and the petioles shorter as the flower bud is reached.
Exactly the same order follows the production of budscales when a branch is about finishing its season's growth.
Towards the end of the season the ends of the petioles widen  the petioles themselves shorten  and careful observations in many plants will show that the final result of this process is the budscale.
When again the season for a renewal of growth occurs the same process appears inverted.
The small scale grows larger and wider.
Often a perfect petiole is reached before a trace of leaf appears.
In some species of Ash and in the Dwarf Horsechestnut Aesculus parvi flora this transition is particularly evident.
The result of the examination will clearly establish the fact that a bud scale is' a transformed leaf to be sure but a leaf in which the longitudinal growth has been arrested and a quickened growth secured for the base of the petiole or stipule.
We may more correctly say that a budscale is a transformed stipule or dilated petiolar base.
Examining carefully the same growthcourse in the clover or the rose there is seen the same gradual modification.
The stipules are enlarged until the leaf blades wholly disappear in the sepals  the petals still the same modified stipule widen and enlarge.
No other conclusion can be reached.
But in the rose the sepals sometimes narrow and the leafblade reappears at the apex.
In some varieties grown in winter forcing houses a perfect pinnate rose leaf appears.
This is the case notably with a variety known to florists as Madame Ferdinand Jamain in America  American Beauty.
Clear as it is to the mind that when carefully traced the petal of a rose is formed of an enlarged stipule and not of a fully planned leaf the positive evidence is not furnished as freely as in the case of the sepal but specimens of Rosa humilis sent to me in 1883 by Miss Jennie E. Whiteside of Harmonsburg Pennsylvania give an excellent illustration.
This form has been figured and described by Mr. Sereno Watson in the Garden and Forest for February loth 1889 as Rosa humilis var triloba.
The trilobed petal is simply a case in which the usual stipule forming the petal of the rose has again had its normal growth accelerated towards a perfect leaf.
The central lobe is in fact no more than a dilated petiole with the stipule represented by the two lateral lobes in its normal position at its base.
The same process from the total arrestation of petiole and leaf blade to the abnormal dilation of the stipule to form the petal can be traced in magnolia as made plain in the paper above cited.
When we come to formulate the general proposition that the budscales of branches and the sepals and petals of flowers are modified stipules or dilated bases of petioles it will not be surprising if instances should be adduced where these organs are evidently modified leafblade rather than stipular.
Nature seems so exhaustive in her efforts at variety that though the morphologist should be able to prove his position in the greater percentage of cases he learns by experience that  never and  always are dangerous terms.
With this clearly conceived nature of budscales and floral envelopes before us Ave get a nobler view of the office they have to perform in the economy of plantlife.
We cease to look on them as mere  appendages of so little account as to be usually dismissed with a few words in treatises on structural and morphological botany.
They are the police force of vegetation the defenders of the weak the protectors of infancy in the vegetable world.
From the scale of a Lily bulb to the fullformed petal of the beautiful rose we see the selfsame chord with myriads of tones in perfect harmony.
It is a good illustration of the unity of plan on which nature rings such varied changes.
And this conception of the nature and the office of stipules harmonizes the morphological conceptions heretofore prevailing as to the formation of the flower.
We have long since ceased to say that a flower is modified leaves  we now teach that a whole branch is modified when nature undertakes to mould a flower.
Now if we propose that budscales are modified stipules and that their office is protection when the organs of a branch are so modified as to produce a flower the stipular conceptions should lead to protection also  and this is conceded to be the chief duty of sepals and petals.
They are mainly for the protection of the tender parts they enclose.
Bud scales and the floral envelopes are modified stipules and their office is protection to weaker portions of the plant structure.
On parallel habits in allied species from widely separated localities.
In a paper published in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1862 page 10 the author of this paper pointed out that the variations in many allied species of Europe and America were always in the same line.
For instance if a European species had shorter internodes larger buds more serrate or thicker leaves duller foliage in the fall denser growth of branches than an American ally species of other genera would also differ in the same comparative characters.
In other words the variations in character which distinguish the species of America from the species of Europe are all on the same general plan.
It may now be noted that in two species of Euonymus  one of America and one of Japan  both remarkably dimorphic  the dimorphic one also has a remarkable correspondence.
In our country we have Euonymus Americanus.
L. which we sometimes find growing up as an arborescent shrub of four or six feet with a round head on a single stem of near two inches in diameter and with thick ovate bright green leaves.
At other times it is found as a lowtrailing plant with thin linearlanceolate pale green leaves having so far as I know flowers but rarely in this trailing state.
Many a young botanist in his earlier experience must have wondered as the author has whether they were not wholly distinct species.
Riper years with accumulated knowledge of the range of variation alone teaches the identity of the two.
Euonymus Japonicus of Japan presents the same conditions.
This was long ago described by Thunberg under this name and has been many years cultivated in American gardens.
A leaf of this is given in Fiir.
4.
Laer has introduced E. radicans of Siebold Fig.
representing a leaf of this form.
For many years it was grown in our gardens as a simple low bush in shrubberies.
Some plants growing near a low stone wall took to climbing up as the wellknown English Ivy or the American Trumpet creeper does doing full justice to Siebold's specific name radicans.
As soon as it reached the top of the wall the leaves increased in size and general character till it was difficult to trace any difference between them and Euonymus Japonicus.
That they were dimorphic forms of one species admitted of no doubt.
Cuttings of the upper brauches with the enlarged leaves were made but the young earlier branches pushing out from the cuttings gave the true radicant form of Siebold but eventually stronger branches pushed out with an erect habit.
Fig.
1 2 3 are all graduated leaves from one of these plants.
Fig.
3 will be seen to have reached very nearly the size and form of a true E. Japonicus Fig.
4 but it is not quite so thick and shining.
As the two species are not distantly related it is certainly interesting to note that the dimorphic one is of the same relative character in each case the climbing habit being still wanting in the American species.
1889.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
67 April 2.
The President Dr. Joseph Leidy in the chair.
Thirtynine persons present.
The production of aerating organs on the roots of swamp and other plants  The following communication was read from Prof. William P. Wilson   In the winter of 188586 I was in South Florida.
While studying the plants about Lake Butler in Hillsborough Co. my attention was called to the excrescences on the roots of the bald cypress Taxodium distichiun Richard generally called  knees.
The water in the lake was very low.
During high water the waves had washed bare the roots of many of the cypress trees along the shore.
In this way an occasional tree was found whose earlier formed rootsystem was almost completely exposed.
These exposed roots offered excellent opportunity for the study of some of the points in the development of the socalled  knees.
The very early stages were secured by digging up the complete rootsystem of young trees which were just beginning to show  knees and also by cultivating at a later date seedlings under varying conditions.
Some of the results early obtained led to the growing of other plants under varying conditions of moisture and dryness.
Certain points concerning the development and function of roots under the influence of excessive moisture which seem to be clearly made out will be very briefly stated in this paper.
A more extended discussion of the same subject including the anatomy of some of the roots with explanatory cuts will I hope soon follow in the Proceedings of this Academy.
Taxodium distichum produces whenever it grows in wet places excrescences on its roots called  knees.
These knees vary in size in height and in number in accordance with the depth of water or amount of moisture existing under the trees.
When the water for a part of the year is deep the knees grow correspondingly high.
If the ground is simply overflowed and kept saturated with moisture most of the season these knees grow low but multiply themselves in great numbers.
Fifty to one hundred may be produced from the rootsystem of one tree.
If the overflow is considerable in depth the knees may exceed eight or ten feet in height.
They are strictly root productions as will be shown later both by their development and anatomy.
The development of these knees is by two very distinct methods.
First if the seed germinates and the plant begins its growth in a very wet place many of the small roots which are only six or eight inches below the soil grow upward towards the surface at slightly varying angles of from 20 to 35.
Upon reaching the surface these same roots turn and go down into the soil at about the same angle.
Some of them may if the soil is very wet or if under the water for a part of the season repeat this method of growth several times in the course of six or eight feet.
At each point where the root comes to the surface begins later the development on its upper side of the socalled  knees.
A remarkably rapid increase of cells on one side takes place at this point which results in the constant elongation of the club shaped body the knee.
This point of growth I shall discuss in a following article.
The second method of knee formation takes place on old roots either horizontally or otherwise disposed to the surface.
If the tree requires from inundation or other causes more aerating surface than can be readily or rapidly produced by young and growing roots then either the whole upper surface of the root in question may become more active and rapid in its growth or the places of growth may be limited to certain definite points.
In the first case the whole root becomes widened ribbon like and corrugated in general appearance.
In the second separate and distinct knees are formed.
All knees cannot however be explained from these two simple methods.
The cypress roots seem to have a very great tendency toward natural grafting.
Whenever two roots cross each other and later through increase in diameter press upon each other they develop a natural union.
In many cases when the ascending and descending part of the root which forms the basis of a knee approach parallelism they become later through increasing diameter wholly consolidated in the formation of the knee.
It may happen that several knees begin their development within a few inches of each other.
In such cases they may later become consolidated into one.
The external parts of the knee above the soil in such cases may give little or no evidence of such consolidation.
In the first mentioned method of knee formation the root passing from the tree to the  knee  is always less in diameter than the one leaving the knee.
On the root descending from the forming knee there generally develops a cluster of roots these often become consolidated later with the  knee.
Roots which branch from the ascending part of the forming  knee  develop new  knees.
I do not propose at this time to discuss the function of these knees further than to say that their location and occurrence indicate beyond a doubt that they are for purposes of aerating the plant.
Given conditions of sufficient dryness and plants of Taxodium distichmn may be produced without a sign of these excrescences.
The same or other plants may be placed under conditions of extreme moisture when after a time the  knees  will appear on both old and newly formed roots.
The Taxodium seems to prefer swamps and inundated locations and in such places always produces the  knees.
When cultivated in gardens and parks in dryer soils where it readily grows it never produces them.
The possibility of causing the development of these aerating organs in the cypress or by changed conditions of making them fail to appear at all naturally leads oue to examine other plants which from choice inhabit similar locations.
There are numbers of trees and smaller plants which when flooded part of the season or grown in too wet soil will either form knees something like the cypress or send their roots up into the air above the water.
I have succeeded in causing common Indian corn to push up one or more roots from each plant above the soil by keeping the same saturated with moisture.
Such roots grow up into the air and then turn downward and enter the soil forming perfect knees for aerating the plant.
In Georgia on slopes remaining inundated during the wet season I have found the Pond pine Pinus serotina Michx.
making perfect knees on the water side something like the cypress while the roots on the upper or dry side of the tree did not appear on the surface at all.
One of the most striking cases in which roots are sent up above the surface of the soil and water may be found in one of the sour gums the Water Tupelo Ny.isa aquatica L. of the Southern states.
This tree sometimes grows in water holes associated with no other tree thus resembling a Cypress head.
I found such Tupeloheads frequently in Georgia.
In such cases the base of each tree was enlarged to double the diameter five to eight feet from the ground.
Around the base of each tree extending six or eight inches above the high water line was a compact mass of roots each one growing vertically up out of the water and after making a sharp bend growing down parallel with the upright part into the water again.
There were sometimes dozens of these roots surrounding one tree closely appressed to its base.
These roots varied in size from that of the finger to several inches in diameter.
The genus Sonneratia and also Avicennia L. both furnish interesting trees which growing in soils or ooze always saturated with water have contrived to send up vertical roots for purposes of aeration.
Avicennia nitida grows in our own tropics and along the southern shores of Florida.
These vertical roots which extend up above the soil from 6 to 10 inches are always in the air at low tide.
They are covered with numerous lenticells through which the air enters the plant when they are not flooded.
There is no doubt but that all swamp plants and others growing between tide waters which are flooded during a part of the day have provided themselves in one way or another with means for root aeration.
See interesting papers by K. Goebel 1 L. Jost 2 and Shaler.
3 The following were ordered to be printed  1 Berichle der rleutschen botanischen Gesellschaft Jahrg.
1886 S. 249.
2 Botanische Zeitung Nr.
37 38 u.
39 1887 S. 601.
3 Memoirs of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College Vol.
XVI.
No.
1 June 1887 Science Vol.
XIII.
No.
318 p. 176.
THE BOEINGSPONGE CLIONA.
BY JOSEPH LEIDY M. D. Among the ocean debris of the neighboring Atlantic coast shells of the oyster Ostrea Virginiensis and of the clam Venus mercenaria conspicuous from their being riddled with holes are frequent.
When I first saw such shells I suspected that the numerous perforations were due to an annelid or perhaps a boring mollusk.
In 1856 while at Beasley's Point on Great Egg Harbor New Jersey I had the opportunity of observing the shells of both dead and living oysters drilled in the same manner and with the borings occupied by a living soft yellow silicious sponge.
A notice of my observations on the sponge attributed to the genus Cliona with its character peculiar habit and incidental importance in the economy of nature was published the same year in the Proceedings of this Academy Vol.
VIII p. 162.
Apparently the massive form of the same sponge was previously described by Desor under the name of Spongla sulphurea occurring in Vineyard Sound Proc Boston Nat Hist.
Soc 184 68.
Later the sponge of the same locality was noticed by Prof. Verrill as Cliona sulphurea and is described as commencing in the condition of a boring form on dead shells and subsequently growing into masses six or eight inches in diameter Rep U. S. Fish Commission 1873 421.
In Little Egg Harbor in the vicinity of Beach Haven N. J I have observed the boringsponge in various stages from the condition in which it occupies the shells of oysters and clams with its sensitive papillae and oscules protruding from perforations of the surface of the shell to variously massive forms enclosing at their base the riddled shells from which they sprung.
Sometimes I have observed a mass enveloping a pair of open perforated shells of an oyster or clam in which the shells were still united at the hinge.
Often too a massive sponge envelops together with its original cradle fragments of other shells pebbles and sand.
To the fishermen of Beach Haven the massive sponge is familiar under the name of Baypumpkin often growing to the size of one's head.
In the oyster beds the boringsponge especially invades the upper or more exposed shell and the living oyster incessantly protects itself by the formation of new shelllayers.
The sedentary habit of the oyster favors the invasion of its boring enemy.
The free moving clam while alive appears to be exempt from its attack but the shells of the dead clam are as thoroughly invaded and riddled as those of the oyster.
I have occasionally met with an isolated valve of the Mactra solidissima Pecten irradians and the horsemussel Modiola plicatula which exhibited the perforations of the boringsponge but none containing the living sponge.
In one instance I obtained a clam shell having attached to it a shell of Ilyanassa obsoleta and tubes of Serpida all together drilled by the living Cliona.
On the cultivated oyster beds the massive Cliona is less frequent than upon accumulations of dead oyster and clam shells elsewhere probably from the circumstance that it is more liable to disturbance in its growth in collecting oysters from the beds.
A boringsponge closely resembling if it is not identical with ours and having the same habits occurs in European seas.
It was first definitely noticed by Dr. R. E. Grant in the Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal 1826 p. 78 and found on the shells of dead and living oysters Ostrea edulis in the Frith of Forth Scotland.
The description of the sponge accords with my observations on the boringsponge as above indicated.
From the accidental attachment of some polyps to the sponge observed by Dr. Grant supposing the polyps to belong to the sponge he described it as a zoophyte and named it Cliona celata.
He also regarded the borings occupied by it as not due to the sponge but to annelids though in the concluding part of his account he remarks that it may be questioned whether the shape of the silicious spicules and constant currents of the papillse do not exert an influence in forming or enlarging the habitation of the zoophyte.
In 1840 Dr. G. D. Nardo announced the occurrence of the boringsponge of the oyster in the Adriatic and gave to it the name of Vioa Un nuovo genere di Spongoli silicei.
Shortly after Duvernoy noticed the boringsponge in the Ostrea hippopus at Dieppe and gave to it the name ofSpongia terebrans Comptes rendus 1841 683.
Dr. George Johnston in 1842 in his History of British Sponges p. 125 described the boringsponge of the oyster under the name of HaliehondHa celata from the oyster beds of Inchkeith and from the Frith of Forth.
He also referred to the same species a massive variety dredged in Butribuy Bay.
In 1849 Mr. Albany Hancock in a paper On the excavating Power of certain Sponges belonging to the genus Cliona described the Cliona celata which he observes is the most destructive species to oyster shells and abounds in the Frith of Forth.
His paper is accompanied by a figure of the sponge occupying an oyster shell and the author remarks that the Cliona undoubtedly works out the cavities it inhabits whether mechanically or otherwise.
He attributes the boring power to silicious granules on the surface of the sponge and to its contractility.
The silicious granules are figured as hexagonal plates with hexagonal markings.
Mr. Hancock also describes boringsponges found in a number of other molluscous shells which sponges he referred to several other different species of Cliona Annals and Magazine of Natural History Vol.
VIII p. 321.
N. Lieberkuhn in 1859 described the Cliona celata as living in oyster shells at Heligoland and attributed the boring of the shells to the sponge Archiv fur Anatomie Vol.
26 515.
Dr. Bowerbank in his work on the British Spongidae II 1866 212 referred the Cliona celata of Dr. Grant to another genus with the name of Hymeniacidon celata. to which he also refers the other boringsponges described by Mr. Hancock.
He reports it as occurring in all parts of Great Britain in oyster and other shells and also in limestone rocks of Tenby.
Dr. Bowerbank doubted the boring power of the sponge and regarded it as merely occupying the deserted habitations of living annelids.
Rev.
A. M. Norman editor of the fourth volume of the same work remarks that Dr. Bowerbank persistently refused to entertain any other opinion than that the Cliona only occupied previouslyformed excavations and had no power of penetrating shell or stone.
Dr. Johnston is the only European authority who ascribes a massive form of sponge to the same species as the ordinary boring form of oyster shells.
Dr. Bowerbank describes and figures a large massive sponge common on the British coast under the name of Raphyrus Griffithsii and refers to it the massive variety of Halichondria celata of Dr. Johnston observing that it is not a matter of surprise that it should have been confounded with Dr. Grant's Cliona celata the spicula of the species being so very similar in size and form.
Dr. 0.
Schmidt describes Cliona celatamder the name of Vioa celata occurring on oysters and stones in the Adriatic and remarks that its spicules are pinlike and of one kind only Supplement derSpongien des Adriatischen Meeres 1864 40.
His distinctive char acter of Vioa is that it is parasitic and lives in perforations of shells and stones Die Spongien der Adriatisehen Meeres 1862 p. 40.
He also describes what he considers to be a new genus of sponges Papillina which except in name I cannot distinguish from Cliona.
The species Papillina suberea he describes as yellow with numerous warts on the surface and with only pinlike spicules.
Bowerbank regards it the same as Baphyrus Griffithsii corresponding with the Halichondria celata of Johnston who described it as a variety of Dr. Grant's Cliona celata and this is admitted by Schmidt Spongien der Atlantischen Gebietes 1870 77.
The latter further describes a cushionlike polsterformiger Papillina from the coast of Florida which likewise appears to be a Cliona.
As the massive form of Halichondria celata of Johnston synonymous with Baphyrus Griffithsii of Bowerbank and Papillina suberea of Schmidt accords in color and structure and in the form and size of its silicious spicules with Cliona celata it seems to be related to this as our massive Cliona sulphurea is to the boring form of the ovster and clam.
It remains to determine whether our boringsponge of the oyster is the same species as that of European seas.
So far as we may judge from the descriptions of the European sponge in comparison with ours they appear to be identical in color form 1 structure and habits.
Both also have but one kind and form of silicious spicules.
But in these if the records are correct we find a very considerable difference in size.
Grant Hancock Bowerbank and Lieberkuhn give as the size of the spicules of Cliona celata about sVth of an inch while in all our forms of Cliona in the oyster and clam and in the largest massive varieties the size of the spicules is only about sVth of an inch.
Moreover if the observation of Mr. Hancock is correct and I have not erred in my own there is still a more remarkable difference.
In the boringsponge of our oyster and clam I could detect no trace of the silicious hexagonal granules which Mr. Hancock regards as the instruments of boring of Cliona celata.
In the position indicated for these granules in repeated examinations I could find nothing but a few scattered irregular particles of quartz sand.
The onlv distinction then if future observations prove them really to exist between Cliona sulphurea and Cliona celata are the considerably longer silicious pinlike spicules of the latter and the presence in the boring form of additional haxagonal silicious granules otherwise both would pertain to the single species Cliona celata.
6 A different and pretty form of Cliona and probably an undescribed species is exemplified by specimens obtained on the coast of Florida by Mr. Joseph Willcox.
Though from the same locality they do not appear to accord with the descriptions of Schmidt of Papillina cribrosa and arenosa Spongien des Atlantischen Gebietes p. 48.
In four specimens of which one is a twin making according to the ordinary view five individuals all accord in their upright cylindrical sausagelike form.
In their present state all but one are somewhat duskywhite spotted by brownish rings and smooth as if waterworn.
The remaining specimen shorter and more robust than the others is darkbrown with a yellow tinge on one side of the base and is covered with warts.
It resembles in the same condition the appearance of surface of the massive form of Cliona sulphurea and probably like this in the fresh state was sulphurcolored.
The specimens range in length from 90 to 175 mm and from 35 to 50 mm in breadth.
The summit is rounded truncate depressed centrally and in the unworn or more recent specimen imperforate with a short stemlike tubercle.
The base in the latter specimen is truncate and looks as if it had been cut away from a fixed attachment.
Two of the other specimens are rounded in the same position broken along a semicircle where they seem to have been attached and have a depression or cave on one side communicating with a central perforation.
A specimen 130 mm long and 35 mm broad cut across the middle exhibits a central cavity extending the length of the sponge 16 mm wide and with smooth imperforate sides.
The surface of the worn sponges is divided into mostly haxagonal areas 3 or 4 mm wide with a central circular spot and darker border.
In the unworn sponge the hexagonal areas are occupied by a central circular papilla variably prominent level or slightly depressed.
The exterior of the sponge is composed of a more compact thin lamina or skeleton of silicious spicules with comparatively little of the softer spongestructure while the interior greatly thicker portion extending to the inner cavity is composed of a looser texture of the same kind of spicules with a large proportion of the softer structure pervaded by bands of the more compact substance extending inward from the exterior layer.
The silicious spicules of the sponge are of one kind only pinlike in form and identical in all other respects including size with these of Cliona sulphur en.
In the shape of the sponge with its interior chimneylike cavity it resembles the tubular form of individuals of many keratose sponges and is so unlike the more familiar forms of the living sponge that if not a different species as a marked variety it might be distinguished as Cliona phallica.
Mr. YVillcox who is now in Florida writes that the Cliona phallica is one of the most common sponges of the coast.
He observes that when alive it is of a yellow color and has an opening at the summit nearly as large as the end of the little finger.
It is very sensitive and when disturbed contracts and closes the orifice.
The dead specimens never exhibit the latter open.
Mr. Willcox says that he observed the sponge at Clearwater Harbor near Tarpin Springs.
ANow tide when covered with only five or six inches of water this was seen to be in active movement above the sponge indicating a current flowing from the aperture.
In wading when Mr. Willcox approached within four or five feet of the sponges the currents flowing from them would cease and on touching them they would close the terminal aperture.
VARIATION IN OPHIURA PANAMENSIS AND OPHIURA TERES.
BY J. E. IVES.
Among the Ophiurans in the collection of the Academy there are a number of specimens from the Pacific Coast of North and Central America which appear to me to belong respectively to Ophiura Panamensts Liitken and Ophiura teres Lyman.
I have had occasion while identifying these forms to correlate the descriptions of Messrs. Liitken Lyman  Verrill Liitken Vidensk.
Selsk.
Skrift.
1850 p. 193  Lyman Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
N. H. vii pp.
198 257 1860 and 111.
Cat.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. No.
1 pp.
32 37 1865 Verrill Trans.
Conn.
Acad. i p. 253 and as the specimens above mentioned appear to add to our knowledge of the variation in color and pattern I propose therefore to briefly consider some of the characteristic features of these two species.
In addition to the specimens in the collection of the Academy I have had the opportunity of examining three specimens kindly loaned by the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Mr. W. N. Lockington who made a study of 0.
Panamends during his residence on the West Coast has also courteously placed at my disposal some manuscript notes.
The different varieties of 0.
Panamensts appear to range themselves into two groups as follows  1.
Upper surface of disk dark green greenish gray or brownish sometimes speckled with darker and sometimes with a white mark in the center  upper surface of arms same banded with lighter and darker with outer edges of upper armplates occasionally marked with dark longitudinal lines presenting a toothed appearance Panama to Cape St. Lucas.
2.
Disk olive green mottled with black and red or of various shades of brown arms same banded with lighter  darker bands sometimes mottled with lighter and the light bands so dark as almost to obliterate the banding.
West Coast of Mexico Lower California and California.
Mr. Lockington records a variety with a brown disk and olive green arms without bands except at the tips.
The various specimens of this species agree in having the upper armplates little or not at all broken  the radial shields naked and the mouth shields about as long as broad convex outwardly and with a slight rounded angle on the inside.
The larger specimens have eleven arm spines at the base of the arm.
In these structural characters they differ from 0. teres in which the upper armplates are broken into two or more pieces the radial shields covered and the mouth shields usually broad and short with a nearly straight outer edge concave sides and a rounded lobe projecting inwards.
The arm sjnnes usually number nine in specimens corresponding in size to those of 0.
Panamensis in which eleven are found.
One of the specimens loaned by the Museum of Comparative Zoology and labeled  Gulf of California agrees in general character with 0. teres but possesses uncovered radial shields.
There is also a very young fourarmed alcoholic specimen in the collection of the Academy in which the radial shields are naked.
Mr. Lyman has described the young of 0. teres as having uncovered radial shields.
Prof. Verrill however states that this is not the case with the young forms in the museum of Yale College and I find that the young specimens of 0. teres in the collection of the Academy with the single exception of the specimen above mentioned have the radial shields granulated as in the adult.
These two specimens and those mentioned by Mr. Lyman Proc.
Bost.
Soc vii p. 257 seem to indicate nevertheless that the young occasionally have the radial shields uncovered.
The color of the upper surface of the disk and arms of 0. teres is of various shades of brown sometimes speckled with grayish white.
In an alcoholic specimen from Nicaragua the arms are very irregularly banded with light brown the outer and inner plates of a dark band being darker than the other plates forming the band.
The darkest variety of 0. teres closely resembles the darkest variety of 0.
Panamensis.
In both forms some of the upper armplates of the outer portion of the arm have white markings which form segments of two broken parallel longitudinal lines one on each side of the arm.
Each segment occupies one or more plates and is separated from the next segment by an also variable number of plates without any such markings.
It will be seen from the above that 0.
Panamensis presents a very great variety of color pattern.
This variation is probably due to the wide north and south range of the species viz  from Panama to California.
It is noticeable that the darker varieties are found northwards the darkest specimens in the collection of the Academy coming from San Diego.
ON PRATINCOLA SALAX VERB.
AND ALLIED SPECIES.
BY WITMEE STONE.
While engaged in studying the Pratincolas in the Academy's collection I observed a specimen bearing Verreanx's printed label marked as the type of Pratincola.
salax Verr.
 A comparison of this specimen with the description of P. salax in Sharpe's Catalogue of the Birds in the British Museum Vol iv p. 184 and with the original description Rev.
et.
Mag.
de Zool.
1851 p. 307 led to some interesting results.
P. salax of Sharpe's Catalogue is evidently one of the P. rubetra group with a lightcolored throat while the type specimen now before me belongs to the P. rubicola group with the throat uniformly black and seems to be identical with P. sybilla from Madagascar.
It is curious that the bird described by Sharpe should have been referred to P. salax of Verreaux as the original description distinctly refers to a blackthroated bird.
Verreaux first describes the bird as black  and then enumerates the parts which are differently colored  Nigerrima  uropygio collari interrupto macula alarum magna interna abdomine albis  pectore castaneo.'
As no special mention is made of the throat it is certainly understood to be black.
The more minute description following the Latin diagnosis agrees precisely with the specimen before me placing its authenticity beyond a doubt.
Verreaux's bird is from the Gaboon and with the exception of some specimens collected by Iu Chaillu at Cape Lopez and River Cam ma Cassin Proc.
Phil.
Acad.. 1859 p. 39 is the only blackthroated specimen recorded from this part of Africa.
I cannot say whether or not Cassin's determination of these birds was correct as a careful search through the Academy's collection has failed to discover Du Chaillu's specimens.
The type specimen seems identical both in size and coloration with one of P. sybilla from Madagascar and differs from the south African form P. torquata in its smaller size narrower bill and in the chestnut color being confined to the fore part of the breast.
This bird No.
722 Acad.
Catalogue together withseveral others of Verreaux's types was purchased by Dr. Thos.
B. Wilson and presented to the Academy with the rest of the Wilson collection.
P. axillaris Shelly Proc.
Zool.
Soc 1884 p. 556 from Mt.
Kilimanjaro seems closely allied to P. sybilla but differs from it in its larger size black axillaries and in the diminution of the white on the inner edge of the secondaries beneath.
It may be that a series of Gaboon specimens may show some distinctive race characters but certainly the form does not differ specifically from the Madagascar bird and perhaps P. axillaris may fall under the same head.
In that case P. sybilla would be considered as ranging across all central Africa P. salax representing the western face typical P. sybilla the Madagascar race and P. axillaris a mountain form of the same  while on the south the species would be replaced by P. torquata.
All the species just mentioned including the whitetailed species P. hemprichii may be distinguished from the group consisting of P. rubicola P. maura and P. leucura by the color of the breast in the males which in the former is dark chestnut and in the latter lighter orange rufous.
This difference in coloration of the breast seems to correspond with the geographical distribution the lighter forms being found in Europe and Asia while the darker are confined to Africa.
The identirication of P. salax Verr.
with P. sybilla Linn. leaves the bird described as P. salax in Sharpe's catalogue without a name.
Although the species is apparently distinct from any described form nevertheless as there are no specimens in the Academy collection and as I have never had an opportunity of examining any I hesitate to propose a name for it and thereby perhaps add to the already complicated synonymy of the genus.
The species forming the P. rubicola group to which P. sybilla belongs may be arranged as follows  Eur.
Asiatic Group.
Breast orange rufous   Ao white visible on the tail.
P. rubicola Linn.
Europe and Western Asia.
P. maura Pall P.
indica Blyth.
Asia  range coalescing with that of the former somewhere in the water shed of the Volga Sharpe.
Several geographical races of this species have been described but do not seem worthy of specific rank.
Basal portion of tall white for twothirds of its length.
P. leueura Blyth.
India and Burmese countries.
African group.
Breast dark chestnut   No white visible on the tail.
P. sybilla L. Psalax Verr.
Madagascar and Gaboon perhaps extending across central Africa and exhibiting several geographical races of which the following may be one  P. axillaris Shelly.
Kilimanjaro.
P. tor quota L. P.
astor Voigt.
South Africa.
Basal portion of the tail white.
P. hemprichii Ehrenb.
N. E. Africa ranging into S. E. Europe Severtzoff.
Of course the two whitetailed species are closely related and are separated here merely to carry out the geographical division.
