A REVIEW OF THE CRETACEOUS MAMMALIA.i BY HENRY FAIRFIELD OSBORN.
In July 1889 I received a copy of the  Discovery of the Cretaceous Mammaliaby Professor O. C. Marsh and shortly afterwards wrote to the author calling attention to all the points in which it appeared to me he was mistaken and suggested that he should revise the paper himself.
Tins was a year and a half ago.
In the meantime the paper has been widely distributed and its facts have been accepted without question by many who have no special knowledge of the Mesozoic mammals and with considerable hesitation and criticism by those who have.
I refer especially to the notices by Lydekker' Lemoine Cope and Dames.''
It seems therefore that it is now best to carefully review in a manner which cannot be misunderstood either by the author or by others what appears to me to be one of the most remarkable contributions to palteontology ever published.
Criticism can of course be based only upon the published diagnoses descriptions and figures in comparison with our present general knowledge of these early mammals.
Other evidence is promised by the author and I venture to predict that it will confirm the greater part of the conclusions reached in this review.
First as to extent and general character the conspectus of the author impresses us that this fauna is not only highly varied but contains forms which are mostly new to science.
Four orders are believed to be repre.sented the Allotheria Pantotheria Marsupialia and Insectivora
The author finds six families among the Allotheria alone four of which are new  five new families in all.
Sixteen new genera and twentyseven new species are described.
All of the types are isolated teeth excepting those of Camptomus
With the exception of Halodoii Cimolomysand Dipriodon only one tooth of 1 Presented to the Sociely of Morpholoits Boston Dec. 30tli 1890 to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia Tuesday Jan. 20th 1891.
  The Discovery of the Cretaceous Mammalia
O. C. Marsh American Journal of Science Parts I. and II. July and August 1889.
3 Manual of Palaeontology Vol.
II p. 12C8.
 Academy of Sciences Paris March 3ii 1890.
5 American Naturalist June 1889 p. 490.
6 Neues Jahrb.
f. Geol.
Min.
u. Pal.
1890 p. 1413. each species is described i. e. from different parts of the jaws and we are given to understand that the associated teeth found with each will be described in the Memoir now in preparation by the writer under the auspice
of the United States Geological Survey.
Before this varied faunal table is generally adopted into palteontological literature let us examine the author's types and diagnoses keeping in mind the present state of knowledge.
Previous literature has apparently not been consulted by the author except in the matter of nomenclature.
The result is that some wellknown principles which govern the extremely complex and confusing dentition of the Multituberculates are left out of consideration entirely as well as some of the main characters of the dentition of the Mesozoic mammals in general and some characters which enable us to distinguish between the teeth of mammals and those of reptiles and fishes.
As regards the Multituberculates Allotheria it is now well known that their teeth show the following characters  1.
The rows of tubercles in the true molars of one jaw fit into the longitudinal grooves of the molars of the other jaw.
2.
In some families there are three rows of tubercles and two grooves in the upper molars and two rows with one groove in the lower molars Plagiaulacidae  in other families there are conversely two rows above and three below.
3.
In every known species the last molar is invariably simpler than the penultimate molar both as to length of crown and number of tubercles.
4.
That the premolars are of two types a. trenchant b. tubercular.
When tubercular they can be distinguished from the molars by the absence of grooves or closure of the grooves by tubercles.
5.
The primary function of the incisors is to pierce the food the secondary function is to facilitate the backward motion of the jaws as in the rodents.
As regards the ordinal terms Allotheria and Pantotheria they have not as yet been defined' or adopted.
The former is equivalent to ISIultituberculata which has been defined and is now in general use.
 A. MULTITUBERCULATE FORMS Allotheria
1.
Cimolomysgracilis PI.
II figs.
14 described as an upper molar  first referred to Tritylodontidae Owen subsequently to new  See Oshorn  Mesozoic Mammaliap. 257.
2 See the works of Lydelvker Lemoine Doderlein Troiiessart Schlosser Osborn and others.
126 1891. family Cimolomidae.
 Comparing this type with the upper molar of Neo2jlagimlax IjQmome we find it is a first upper molar of one of the Plaglaulacidae Gill.
2.
Cimolomyshellus no figure the type is referred to a distinct species of Cimolomys
 The description and measurements indicate that it is a second u ji p e r molar of C. gracilis.
3.
Cimolomysdigona PI.
VII figs.
14 the type is described as an upper molar of a third species of this genus referred to the Cimolomidae.
 It is an upper molar of one of the Plagiatilacidae.
A premolar PL VII figs.
1316 is rightly described as an upper premolar and correctly associated with this genus compare fig.
19 Lemoine.
4.
Cimolodon nitidus PI.
II figs.
58.
The type is described as an upper molar representing a new genus and family the Cimolodontidae.
 Comparing it with the lower molars of PtHodus Cope it is evident that the type is a first lower molar of one of the Plagiaulacidae.
5.
Nanomys minuius PI.
II figs.
912 the type is described as a last upper molar of the left side and referred to the Cimolodontidae.
 A comparison with Ptilodus shows that it is a last lower molar of the right side belonging to one of the Plagiaulacidae.
 6.
Halodon sculptus PI.
Ill figs.
1113.
The type is a fourth lower premolar rightiy referred to one of the Plagiaulacidae.
A superior incisor PL III figs.
13 is referred to this species.
 It apparently belongs to a much larger form.
7.
Halodon serrahis PL III figs.
1417.
The type is a fourth lower premolar a smaller species rightly referred to one of the Plagiaidacidae.
A superior incisor PL III figs.
14 17 is referred to this species.
 It apparHalodon Fig.
I.
Fourth inferior premolars of a H. sailptiis  eutly belongs to a larger form.
b H. erratus c H formoj g  jj nQsn fact that the upper sus.
Afier Marsh.
All type   y specimens.
molars of the Plagiaulacidae have three 1  Etude sur le Neoplagiaulax de la Faune Eocene inferieure etc.
Bull.
d. 1.
Soc.
Geol.
de France Feb. 12 1883 p. 259.
PI.
VI fig.
17.
2 Op.
cit. PL VI fig.
19e.
3 This type C nitidus has four internal and seven external tubercles while Plilodus trovrsarlianus has four internal and six external tubercles.
 The Tertiary Marsupialia Cope Am.
Nat. July 1884 p. 694. rows of tubercles while the lower molars have but two and that the cusps of the lower rows fit into the valleys of the upper teeth.
This is beautifully demonstrated in the author's own figures as here reproduced and rearranged in figure 2   a is the type of Cimolomysgracilis which fits upon c. the type of Cimolodon nifidui while b the tvpe of Xanomys iiiinTn.'
Xh C Fig.
2.
Upper and Icrwer Molars of Citnolojnys.
Cimo'.omulae a Cimolomysgracilis.
Cimoutii would rolally be found to coiucitle siniihirly with the type of Ciiiioloniys hellus unfortunately not figured by the author.
This gives us the chai'acters of the molars of what was possimoomMa.c a iurioivmys yriiciiis.
ivimu   .
lodonlidae b Cimolodon nitidus c Nanomys bly a new genus Cmomimiius.
After Marsh.
All type specimens.
lomxjs of the Plagiauacidae intermediate between Plagiaulax with three well developed premolars and Ptilodus with one large and one extremely small premolar.
This genus cannot at present be defined lecause so far as we can compare the molars and premolars they closely resemble in size and development the corresponding teeth of Ptilodus.
The premolars of this genus are of course found in the species of Halodon.
The premolar referred to H. serratns agrees best in size with the molars of C. gracilis.
The accompanying restoration of the upper and lower jaws of Cimolomysgracilis shows the various relationships of this animal as given in the above diagnoses by the author    Cimolomysgracilis Cimolomysbellus llllSIsanomys minutus  Phgiaulacidae J Halodon  VT j r  ' ' litidus  'S ' J Halodon  serratus Ciniolomidae.
.
Cimolodontidae.
Cimolodon nit F'g3Upper and lower molars and premolars ff 
Cimolomysin position.
These relationships will probably be increased rather than diminished by future discoveries.'
As it is an upper and lower jaw referred to three families five genera and five specieslis without precedent.
1 See Allacodon lentus winch belongs either to this genus or to Meniscoessus.
128 1891.
8.
Dlpriodon robustus PL II figs.
1315.
The type is probably correctly described as a last upper molar of the left side  it is referred to a new family the Dipriodon.tidae.
9.
Dlpriodon lunutus PI.
II figs.
1618.
The type is riglitly described as a first or second upper molar.
 Keeping in mind the larger size and greater complexity of the more anterior molars there is no ground for referring it to a new species.
10.
Trlprlodoit coelatiis PL II figs.
1921.
The type is described as a first upper molar and is referred to a new family the Tripriodontidar  It resembles in the arrangement of its denticles the 1 o w e r m o 1 a r s of Slereognathns and as shown below is a last lower molar belonging to the genus Meiilscoessus Cope.
11.
Selenacodon fragiiis PL II figs.
2224.
The type is described as an upper m o 1 a r distinguished by crescentoid tubercles from the foregoing.
 It is an anterior 1 o w e r m o 1 a r belonging to the genus 3Ieniscohsus Cope.
12.
Selenacodon brevis PL VII figs.
912.
The type is descriled as an ujper tooth apparently from the left side.
 As the accompanying figures show it agrees in every detail except the degree of wear with the type oi' Menlscoessus conqiddus.
Cope it is a lower molar probably the last.
Fig.
3.
iMeuisccessus cotiquisttis.
Cope.
Type.
An inferior molar x 'Z.
Fig.
4.
Upper and lower molars of Meniscoessus.
Uipriodontidae a Dipyicdon robusHis crown view and end view li D. hinalus CYOvn iiw and end view.
'rripriodonlidae J Iripiiodon coelatus crown view and end view  c Selenacodon frngilis crown view and end view  e S. brevis.
After Marsh.
All type specimens excepting c. 129 1891.
The lower incisor PI.
VTII fig.s.
13 is probably correctly referred.
13.
Tripriodon caperatus PL III figs.
1820.
Thetype is correctly described as a lower incisor.
No ground is assigned for referring it to a new species.
Similar incisors of smaller size PI.
Ill figs.
2122  PI.
Vltl figs.
13 are referred respectively to Tripriodon coelatus and Selenacodon brevis.
This collection of molars demonstrates that Meniscoessns like Stereorjnathus belongs to a family in which the tubercles are crescentoid and arranged in two rows in the upper molars and three rows in the lower molars.
This is admirably .shown in the author's own figures as rearranged in figure 4. o The type of Dipriodon robmtus is seen to fit upon b the type of Tripriodot coelatus.
d and c belong to older individuals but the worn cusps and valleys coincide  they are respectively the author's tyes of Dipriodon lunatus and a molar referred to Selenacodon fragilis as it agrees exactly with the type except in point of wear.
The lower incisor type of Tripriodon caperatus corresponds in size with these molars the two smaller incisors referred to T. coelatus and Selenacodon brevis have tlie same shape and grooved sides.
1 When these incisors are placed side by side as in figure 5 with the upper incisors ieferied by the author to Halodon scidptus and Halodon serratns we observe that the longitudinal and transverse diameters of the crowns and fangs coincide exactly in measurement rendering it highly probable that they belong to the same species.
2 The question is do these teeth belong to Halodon or Menisco'essus f We observe that the lower incisor associated with i.
Fig5a 'Upper incisor of Halodon sculptus'  Lower incisor of Tripriodon caperazis type  Upper incisor of Halodon serratns ' d  Lower incisor oi Se'etiacodon brevis.
After Marsh.
Halodon formosus PL VIII figs.
3235 has the enamel confined to a band as in Ptilodus and Xeoplagiaxdax.
It is smooth.
It is therefore probable that all these striated completely enamelled incisors belong to Meniscoessus.
3 When moreover it is seen that these incisors are far too large to be associated with the premolars of H. scidptus and IT.
serratus we have further grounds for associating them with Meniscoessus with which they agree in size.
The tooth assigned by the author as the upper incisor of Divriodon rohustus apparently belongs to a reptile.
It is unlike any incisor hitherto found with the Multituberculata.
ce 3 Fig5a.
Toolh determined as an ' upper incisor' of Dipriodon robnsliis.
Plagiaulacidae.
Ilalodon sculptus Dipriodontidae.
Dipriodon lunatus. 
Dipriodon robustus.
Tripriodon caperatus Tripriodontidae.
7 C 'SS Tripriodon coelatus.
 Selenacodon fragilis.
Tripriodontidae.
Fig.
6.
Upper and lower molars of Meniscoessus in position.
Association of incisors with molars conjectural.
The accompanying restoration is based upon the foregoing considerations and shows that according to the author the relationships of Meniscoessus are as varied as those of its contemporary Cimolomysincluding three families four genera and seven species.
14.
AUaeodon lentus and A. puniilus PI.
VIII fig.s.
222631.
The types are described as u p p e r molars of a genus related to Allodon and Bolodon and referred to the Allodontidae.
 It is a universal characteristic of the molars of the Multituberculata that as the grooves are adapted to fore and aft wear the tubercles are arranged on the sides  in the type of AUaeodon a tubercle stops the valley  these types are unadapted to fore and aft wear they are therefore probably premolars and belong either with Meniscoessus or Cimolomysor possibly with some other genus the molars of which are not represented in this collection.
Upper premolars of this type are seen in Chirox Cope  Bolodon Owen  and Ctenacodon Marsh.
' 15.
Oraeodon anceps PI.
VIII figs.
1316.
This type is rightly described as a premolar but no grounds are given for considering that it belongs to a distinct genus and species.
16.
Camptomusampins PI.
V figs.
12.
AlaJdon lentus.
The type is a scapula with which are associated After Marsh.
Types other bones calcaiieum astragalus interclavicle.
Ko grounds are assigned for separating these remains from genera founded upon the teeth.
 The astragalus bears the same proportion to the molarteeth of Meniscoessus that we observe in Pohj mastodon  it is also apparently perforated.
The affinities of these forms to the Monotremata have been observed by Cope the coracoscapular facet  theref re strengthens the supposition that some of these bones at least belong to Menisco'issns.
In any case they cannot be considered as good types.
This completes the Multituberculate forms.
B. TpvItuberculate Forms.
17.
Dryolestes tenax no figure.
The type is a lower jaw with a mvlohyoid groove in which the number and character of the teeth  cannot be determined.
The author's reference is provisional.
18.
Didelphops Didelphodon vorax PI.
IV figs.
13.
The type is an upper molar distinguished from Dldelphys by intermediate tubercles.
 This character does not separate it from the large number of trituberculates with similar molars the genus is therefore undefined at present.
The other species D. ferox and D. comptus are also undefinable.
19.
Pediomys elegans PI.
IV figs.
2325.
The type is an upper molar.
 It is not distinguished generically from Didelpliodnn.
20.
Cimolestes curtus and incisics PI.
IV figs.
818.
The types are lower molars.
 Like Didelphodon these forms cannot be defined they are tuberculosectorial.
It is evident that we have here remains of two distinct and probablv new genera which may be accepted without definition.
C. Incertae sedis.
21.
Starjodon nitor PL VII figs.
2225.
The jtypes are a few teeth with sinole faugs referred to a new family the Stagodontidae.
They do not resemble the teeth of any known mammal although described as having two fangs which are however not shown in the figures.
The premolar associated is distinctly mammalian.
22.
Platacodon nanus PL VIII figs.
412.
The types are cora.. pared to the molars of jf Chrisochhris.
 They do not bear the most remote  2  .
 resemblance to the molars '  of ChrysocJdoris or any 0 I .
1  '' n  .r other known mammal.
btagodontidae a Slagodon nilor.
After Marsh.
Types.
Prof Dames considers b Platacrdon nmms.
After M.irsh.
Types that they belong to the Cyprinoid fishes. The above types do not resemble in the most remote degree the molars in either the multituberculate or trituberculate series  the only two mammalian series hitherto represented in all the discoveries of Mesozoic or Eocene times.
Nor liave they as figured any of the characteristics which we expect to find in mammalian teeth. They should therefore be considered either as reptilian or icthyopsidan  we cannot agree with the author that they are  evidently mammalian.
The above analysis may be summarized under the following heads we find that the author has  1.
Separated parts which evidently belong together vide various teeth of Cunolomys and Meniscocssus  2.
United parts which apparently or certainly do not belong together vide the large upper incisors with Cimolomysthe reptilian or fish molar of Stagodoii with a mammalian premolar the reptilian tooth as an upper incisor of Dipriodon  3.
Associated or identified reptilian or icthyopsidan teeth as mammalian vide Platacodon Stagodon and incisor of D. robushis.
The large Cretaceous fauna described by the writer is therefore seen to be principally composed of synonyms.
We must eliminate  1.
The terms preoccupied by other authors.
2.
The terms founded upon different parts of the same animals and thus largely preoccupied by the author himself.
3.
The terms founded upon imperfect or indefinite types.
4.
The terms founded upon reptilian or icthyopsidan teeth.
 This author readies conclusions very similar to mine in regard to this paper.
Neues Jahr.
Min.
GeoL 1890 pp.
141143.
2 See H G. Seeley On the Nature and Limits of Reptilian Character in Mammalia Teeth.
Proc.
Roy.
Soc April 4 1888 p. 129.
 A.liMULTITUBEPvCULATA Cope.
A. Allotheria.
1.
Cimolomidae.
Cimolomysgracilis belhis  digoiia 2.
Cimolodontidae.
Ciniolodon iiitidus Nanom3s mimitu..
3.
Plagiaulacidae.
Halodon sculpt us  serratus  formosus 4.
Dipriodoiitidae.
Dipriodou robustus  lunatus 5.
Tripriodontidae.
Tripriodon coelatus  cape rat us Selenacodon fragilis  brevis 6.
AUodontidae.
Allacodon lentus  puniilus Camptoraus amplus 
Oracodon anceps 
B. Pantotheria.

7.
Dryolestidae.

Dryolestes tenax C. ISIarsupialia.
Didelphops vorax  ferox  comptus Cimolestes incisus  curtus D. Insectiyora.
Pedioniys elegans E. Incertae sedis.
8.
Stagodontidae.
Stagodon nitor Platacodon nanus   1.
Plagiaidacidae Gill.
CimolomysJNIarsh two or three specie.
  
2.
Stereognailiidae fam.
nov. Meniscoessu Cope two species.
Probably preoccupied.
Indefinite types or preoccupied.
Indefinite type.
B.
Order indeterminateCreodonta Insectivoraor Marsupialia.
 DidepJiops Marli two species.
 Cimolestes Marsh 
species.
Not defined.
Founded upon Reptilian or Icthyopsidan teeth.
This reduces the Cretaceous mammals described in these two papers to one well determined order or suborder two well determined families and four or five genera one of wiich can now be well defined Meniscoessus while the remainder are probably distinct genera which we may be able to define by the acquisition of more material CimolomysDidelphops and Cimolestei.
There is no question that the majority of the remaining generic names are synonyms although it is quite possible that some of the types described such as Oracodon and Pedioviys may be found to represent distinct or new cenera.
It may be said that this analysis has almost entirely eliminated the work of the author.
This unfortunately is what is necessar if we Avould render this contribution of any permanent value in palaeontology.
We are then left with a series of teeth which represent rare skill on the part of the collector and are figured with remarkable accuracy by the draughtsman.
A few points of interest upon the collection as a whole may be mentioned.
The Malt'dubercidata.
The preponderance of teeth belonging to members of this order would appear to indicate that it flourished during this period.
Cimolomysrepresents a connecting form between Plaglanlax upper Jurassic with three premolars and Ftilod as oi' the lowest Eocene with two.
The smallest species C.formosus apparently has as many grooves upon the fou rth premolar as we observe in Ptilodus and the first lower molar has even more tubercles than we find in the corresponding tooth of the lower Eocene genus.
These grooves and tubercles mark the stages of development and it would appear that Cimolomysis not far removed from Ptilodus  this relation can only be determined by the discovery of additional teeth we may find that Cimolomyshas a large third premolar.
Another interesting fact is that Meniscoessiis does not belong with the Plagiaulacidae as has been generally supposed hitherto' but should apparently be placed with Stereognathus with which its resemblance in molar structure has always been recognized in a distinct family the Stereo gnathidae distinguished by the presence of two rows of tubercles in the upper molars and three in the lower of crescentoid pattern.
The more numerous tubercles in Meiiiscocssus would accord well with its more recent character.
 Cope Osborn Lydekker.
There are thus apparently only two families of the multituberculates represented here unless as the author has suggested AUacodon belongs to the Bolodontidae.
We have yet to find the successors of the Tritylodontidae and predecessors of Polimastodon and Chirox of the lower Eocene.'
As for the trituberculate forms there are evidently two distinct genera which probably belong to different families.
The types of Dldelphops and Clmolestes closely resemble molars found respectively among the Mesotlonta the Creodouta Insectivoraand Marsupialia.
Their systematic position is therefore very uncertain from this evidence.
They mark however a very great advance upon the Jurassic forms in tooth evolution.
We find in Didelphops the earliest lowcrowned tritubercular molar which has been obtained with one or two intermediate tubercles while the lower molar is the earliest quinquetubercular tooth known.
The Clmolestes molar is tuberculosectorial and presents a less marked advance upon Jurassic tooth types but has nevertheless a broad talon with both the entoconid and hypoconid developed whereas all Jurassic forms present the hypoconid only.
The bones of the appendicular skeleton iresent a number of very interesting points some of which the author mentions these are the coracoid facet upon the scapula  the interclavicular.
We note also the flat astragalus without a neck apparently perforated by an astragalar foramen and with a broad cuboidal facet as w'ell as the navicular facet.
The calcaneum has a narrow sustentaculum.
We look forward with great interest to Part III of this series of papers as the collection is a most valuable and interesting one and the above review is not intended in any way to dejreciate the importance of an increased knowledge of the Cretaceous mammals.
1 The nearest resemblance lo Folymastodon is that observed in the striated lower incisors here copied in figure 5.
This genus will undoubtedly be found represented in these beds.
2 The observation rests solely upon the figure.
All astragali of the lower Eocene display this foramen.
