GREENLAND Lepidoptera
BY HENRY SKINNER M. D. AND LEVI W. MENGEL.
Four hundred and fortyfour insects were taken by the expedition sent to Greenhmd by the Academy in the summer of 1891.
They were divided among the different orders as follows  Hymenoptera 25 specimens Coleoptera 4 specimens Lepidoptera Rhopalocera 143 specimens and Heterocera 143.
They were captured by Levi W. Mengel entomologist to the expedition and Dr. W. E. Hughes ornithologist.
The specimens are all from the West Coast and were taken at three principal localities McCormick Bay Herbert Island and Disco.
Rhopalocera
PIERIDJE.
Coliashecla Lef.
Fairly common although few of the specimens were quite perfect.
Both sexes were represented.
There was one beautiful specimen of the white form of the female Avhich seems to occur in most if not all the species in the genus.
Mr. T. D. A. Cockerell has suggested that all these forms of the female in the different species be called 'pallida and we think the suggestion a good one.
Heda when at rest on the herbage with its wings over its back and its green undersides showing is said to mimic its surroundings in a remarkable nanner.
This Greenland heda is what jNIr.
M'Lachlan called var.
gladalls to distinguish it from the Lapland form and those found further south. Coliashecla pallida n. var.
9 Ent.
News Vol.
0 No.
3 j.
2 fig.
4.
Expands 40 mm.
Upper side Superiors are the same in maculation as in the yellow or normal female with the exception that there are but two very minute creamcolored dashes on the wide black marginal border.
The inner twothirds of the wing is cream color with a pinkish tint obscured by gray near the base.
Inferiors with same niaculation as normal female but in color totally different.
The spot at the outer end of cell is cream color and the base of the wing is a steel gray from this outward to the black marginal border is dark olivegreen obscured with gray.
Inside of the mar' Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond.
Vol.
14 p. 108. ginal border the row of spots is obscure cream color.
Fringes of all the wings milk white.
Undersides  Superiors nearly the same color and maculation as above but with a yellow tinge.
Inferiors light olivegreen dusted with gray.
This is very different from the rich grassgreen underside of the normal form.
The spot in the cell has less red around it and is more silvery than in the yellow female.
It would more properly be called the dimorphic white female form and is pi'obably the prettiest form of American Colias
Lycaena aquilio Boisd Three specimens.
NYMPHALIDiE3.
Argynnis chariclea Schneid.
Quite abundant and many of them in good condition.
Among them were a few specimens of what Mr. M'Lachlan called var.
obscurata Proc.
Linn.
Soc.
Vol.
14 p. 109.
This form was figured in Eut.
News Vol.
3 pt.
3 pi.
2 figs.
9 10.
Mr. M'Lachlan in the paper above referred to says   Under this head chariclea I feel compelled to group 20 examples.
Never before have I been so perplexed over a series of an insect of which I had made a serious study.
I may safely say that no two of the twenty individuals are precisely alike.
It would be utterly useless to attempt to describe the forms  the only thing that could be of service would be to give colored figures of both sides of nearly every example.
If we had had a few specimens representing the extremes of variation in this species we would probably have described two or three new species but having a good series with all the mutations represented we can only conscientiously call them A. chariclea
This is a case where breeding a large number from the eggs of several known females would solve the problem so far as the examples of a given area are concerned but we think some entomologists attach too much importance to this kind of proof in other directions.
A thousand specimens of the Greenland form of A. charicleamight be bred without finding one that agreed with the European form  yet this would be no proof of their being valid species if all their geographical intergrades could be found.
This species was stated by Doctor Hughes to also mimic its surroundings as unlike C. hecla it rarely alighted on the herbage but on the ground and iocks which it more nearly resembles in color.
Heterocera
BOMBYCIDiE.
Dasychira Groenlandica Wocke Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarfahrt Bd.
2 Abth.
I p. 409.
Ent.
News Vol.
3 No.
3 pi.
2 figs.
1 2 3.
This species was described in 1874 and so far as we know has never appeared in any of our American lists.
An allied species Dasychira Rossii has improperly been placed in the genus Laria.
D. Groenlandica is of a smoky black subdiaphanous color with strongly marked black neuration of the superiors.
The female is a heavybodied insect and in our one specimen devoid of marking.
There were two males which differ considerably but undoubtedly belong to the same species.
D. Rossii has a black border to the wings entii'ely wanting in Groenlandica.
NOCTUID.
Plusia parilis Hubner.
There were two specimens of this rare and strongly marked species.
Anarta Eichardsoni Curtis.
Several specimens of both sexes  a very variable species.
Anarta Zetterstedi Staudinger.
A number of specimens that present a great amount of variation some being a rich velvety black with the white lines strongly brought out and others ftiintly marked.
These presented as great difficulties as the specimens of Argymiis no two being exactly alike and we have no doubt some entomologists would make a number of species out of them but there are no missing links in the gradations.
Anarta Besla n. sp.
Expands 21 mm.
Upperside Superiors gray with a yellow luster immaculate  fringes gray.
Inferiors same as superiors except that the fringes are white.
Underside similar to the upper except that there are indications of a white band crossing the center of both wings from the costa of the superiors to the lower margin of superiors and there is a faint lunate spot in the middle of the inferior and one above the center of the superior.
Thorax abdomen head etc. above and below of a dark gray almost black.
This comes near A. Zetterstedi and may be an extreme form of it.
GEOMETRID.
Glaucopteryx polata Hubn.
Glaucopteryx Sabinii Curt Glaucopteryx immaculata n. sj.
Expands 22 mm.
Uppersitle  Superiors shining silky gray immaculate.
Inferiors immaculate and several shades lighter in color than the superiors.
Underside of all wings of a uniform gray of about the same shade as the upperside of inferiors.
Antennae pectinated.
The remaining portion of the insect is black or very dark gray.
Mr. IM'Lachlan refers to this as a form of G. Sabinii but even if it proves to be such it deserves a name as all varieties do when one cannot say at once on inspection what the species is.
The most noticeable fact about the Greenland Lepidoptera is their great variability which is probably owing to the short season in which they live and perhaps also to their uncertain appearance due perhaps to sudden changes of temperature while they are in the larval or chrysalis condition.
