THE EVOLUTION OF THE PREMOLAR TEETH IN THE MAMMALS.
BY W. B. SCOTT.
The mode of evolution of the mammalian molar tooth up to and from the tritubercular pattern which has been elaborated by Cope No.
1 and Osborn No.
7 as well as the nomenclature proposed by the latter for the various cusps or elements which make up the crown of the mammalian molar has been very generally accepted by morphologists.
According to this view the primitive form of tooth in both jaws is that exemplified by many reptiles viz. a perfectly simple cone.
The cusp which represents this primordial element throughout the various phyla of mammals is called the protoeone.
To this are added as a second stage small anterior and posterior cusps called respectively the paraand metaeones.
This stage gives a crown composed of three cusps all in the same anteroposterior line and is exemplified by such genera as Dromaiherium and Trkonodon.
The next step would appear to consist in a shifting of the relative position of the cusps and now the molars of the two jaws hitherto similar begin to display an important difference.
In the upper jaw the protoeone begins to move inward or mesially the paraand metaeones remaining upon the external or lateral side of the crown while in the lower jaw the protoconid remains upon the outer side of the tooth the paraand metaconids shifting toward the inner side.
In this stage the molar crowns have a triangular shape the protoeone forming the apex and the paraand metaeones the base  but while in the superior molar the apex is directed mesially in the inferior tooth it is directed laterally.
The next stage affects primarily the lower molars and depends upon the change from the primitive conditio in which the upper and lower molars merely pass each other with a shearing movement or in which each tooth opposes merely one tooth in the opposite jaw to the alternating condition in Avhich each lower molar opposes two upper ones or opposes one and shears against another.
The change consists in the addition to the primitive triangle of the tooth trigonid of a low heel or talon which may subsequently divide into two cusps of which the outer is called the hypoconid and the inner the entoconid.
It may however be the case that the hypoconid is first develied and the entoconid subsequently added to it.
Between these two there generally appears a minute median cusp the hypoconulid which on the last molar may become a large element necessitating the formation of an additional fang but on the others seldom reaches considerable proportions.
In very many forms the upper molars now add a fourth main cusp the hypocone at the posterointernal angle of the crown.
In the tritubercular stage two small accessory elements are developed in the lines connecting the protocone with the paraand metacones and are called respectively the protoand metaconules.
We have now arrived at a stage in which both the superior and inferior molars have six elements quadritubercular stage of Cope to which type the molars of nearly all the higher mammalia may be traced back through successive stages of simplification.
To this scheme of molar development propounded by Cope and Osborn the only serious objections hitherto made are those of Fleischmann No.
4 who rejects both the nomenclature and the homologies explained above.
Before proceeding to the question of the evolution of the premolars it will be necessary to examine the views of Fleischmann since any comparison between the two categories of teeth will of course depend upon the homologies of the molar cusps. 
Wenn iiberhaupt eine Ableitung der Siiugermolaren von einfacheren Formen moglich ist so miissen die Ausgangsglieder bei Reptilien gesucht werden.
Aber die theoretisch geforderten Zwischenformen sind uns nicht geuiigend bekannt und die systematische Stelluug der fossilen Thiere deren Ziihne nach Cope und Osborn die Bindeglieder der Reptilienund Siiugethierzahne darstellen ist wegen schlechter palajontologischer Urkunden vollkommen in's Dunkle gehiillt.
Deshalb ist der Versuch der beiden amerikanischen Forscher wohl als eine Hypothese zu achten fiir welche die Wahrscheinlichkeit unseier raodernen wissenschaftlichen Anschauungen spriclt jedoch fehlt ihm jeder exacte Beweis. 
Auch die Annahme dass alle Glieder des urspriinglichen Siiugethiergebisses ganz gleichartig entwickelt waren scheint mir solange nicht nothwendig aus den jetzt bekannten Thatsachen abgeleitet werden zu miissen als nicht die gesamrate Organisation der Thierwelt der Puercozeit eine einigermaassen sichere Verkniipfung mit den lebenden Siiugern gestattet.
Bis jetzt ist die Annahme alle Ziihne miissen von einer gleichen einfachen Urform stammen nur begriindet in unserem Bestreben die mannichfachen Verhiiltnisse der Thierwelt wie es eben geht unter einei generellen BegrifF zusamnieiizufassen.
Wie einleuchtend auch das logische Princip der systematiscbeii Einheit fiir jeiie Vermutliuiig sprechen mag so kann die Natiirforscluing doch nur dann der lockenden Aussicht folgen wenn geniigende Beweisghinde die Speculation zu stiitzen vermogen.
Wie die Annabme eines urspriinglichen Kegelzahnes als Surrogat einer einstweilen fehlendeii besseren Einsicbt in den bistoriscben Bildungsgang zu beurtbeilen ist so kann man sicb audi die Umwandlung des triconodonten Zabnes in die trituberculiire Form nicbt gut vorstellen.
Man begreift zwar sebr leicbt dass dadurcb den Tbieren ein grosser Vortheil erwacbsen sei aber welcbe pbysiologiscben Processe die Formtinderung leiteten ist jetztnocbgiinzlicb unklar.
Cope und Osborn glau ben die beidenSeitenbcickerseiengegen den Protoconus verscboben worden.
Das ist sicber die einfachste Hjpotbese  aber warum am oberen Molaren dieselben nacb aussen am unteren Backzabn nacb innen gedrebt worden seien ist mir nicbt klar geworden.
Ferner babe icb von Osborn keinen Grund erfabren der ibn berecbtigt die Hocker der oberen und unteren Ziibne direct zu bomologisiren.
Wer bei Siiugetbieren verscbiedener Ordnungen die Ziibne der oberen und unteren Reibe genau betracbtet wird htiufigzu der Erkenntniss gelangen dass die Seiten der Zabne einander im umgekebrten Sinne vergleicbbar sind d. b. dass der Innenseite eines oberen Molaren die Aussenseite des unteren und dem Vorderrande des oberen der Hinterrand des unteren Backzabnes entsprecbe.
Diese Tbatsache babe icb dureb Mabn an den Molaren von Arvicola genauer besprecben lassen icb babe micb auch an Vertretern anderer Gruppen von der Ricbtigkeit derselben iiberzeugt.
Wenn man die eben gescbilderte Lagebeziebung als allgemeines Gesetz fiir Saugerzabne betracbten darf dann ist wobl die Annabme Osborn's iiber die Stellung der drei Koni an entgegenwirkenden Ziibnen bezogen auf dieselbe Sagittalebene ricbtig aber um ganz consequent zu denkeu diirfte man nicbt die am oberen und unteren Molaren nacb vorue stebenden Hocker als Paraconus bez.
als Paraconid bezeicbnen man muss vielmebr den Paraconus im Oberkiefer homolog dem Metakonid des Unterkiefers 3etzen.
No.
4 pp.
8935.
Tbe paper of Mabn on tbe molars oi Arvicola referred to above presents tbe following reasons for regarding tbe anterior end of tbe upper molar as equivalent to the posterior end of the lower  Wenn man die Ziihne im Oberund Unterkiefer betrachtet so springt sofort die Thatsache in die Augen dass die mit einander artikiilirenden Zahne nicht gleich gericbtet sind  denn ira Unterkiefer steben die spitzen Eudeu der Molareu nacb vorn im Oberkiefer sind sie nacb hinten gericbtet und das spitze Ende jedes Unterkieferzabnes trifft auf das breite Ende seines Antagonisten im Oberkiefer.
Die drei Cementleisten liegen wie bereits erwiibnt an verschiedenen Stellen jedes Zabnes zwei am abgerundeten Ende an der facialen und iingualen Kante eine am entgegengesetzteu mehr spitzen Ende  das vviederbolt sicb an alien Gliedern des Gebisses.
Also trifft die Seite des Zabnes welcbe eine Cementleiste besitzt und im Unterkiefer nacb vorn siebt auf die Seite des Oberkieferzabnes an der zwei bilateral gelegene Cementleisten steben.
Man muss desbalb um bei der Formvergleicbung der Ziibne zu ricbtigen Ergebnissen zu gelangen je eine Zabnreibe des Oberkiefers gegen die entgegengesetze Reibe im Unterkiefer um 180 dreben dann fallen die spitzen und stumpfen Enden aller Molaren auf einander. 
Bei der morpbologiscben Vergleicbung muss man dessbalb das Vorderende eines Unterkiefermolaren mit dem Hinterende eines Oberkiefer molaren als entsprecbend anseben.
Vergleicbt man ferner die Form der einzelnen Ziibne so wird man den friiberen Beobacbtern beistimmen welcbe die grosse Abnlicbkeit zwiscben dem dritten bintersten IMolaren des Oberkiefers und dem ersten vordersteu Molaren im Unterkiefer bervorbeben.
M ist in beiden Kiefern ziemlicb gleicbformig dessbalb muss M3 des Unterkiefers Mj im Oberkiefer entsprecben.
So liisst sicb auf Grund der anatomiscben Tbatsacben zunticbst fiir die scbmelzfaltigen Ztihue von Arvicula die Bebauptung aufstellen dass die Ricbtung der oberen und unteren Reibe gerade umgekebrt ist.
Durcb tbeoretiscbe Betracbtung der Entwicklung der Ziihne in einer Einsliilpung des HautzabnAnlagen entbaltenden Ektoderms ist B. Dybowski zu der iibnlicben Auffassung gelangt dass die Ziibne des Oberund Unterkiefers in der Ricbtung von recbts nacb links um 180 gedrebt seien aber er bat seine Meinung durcb Tbatsacben nicht als zwingend erwiesen.
No.
5.
From an examination of the dentition of certain marsupials Fleiscbmann reaches conclusions opposed to those of Osborn and Cope especially with regard to the history of the talon of the lower molars and says of Osborn's view  Die Betracbtung der von milgegebenen Figuren liisst eine solclie Auifassung direct als hinfiillig erscheinen.
To these criticisms it may be replied  1  It is perfectly true tliat the present state of paljeontological knowledge does not permit the construction of an undoubted phyletic series from the Triassic to the Puerco but when the geological and the morphological succession agree so well we are entitled to assume in the absence of any evidence to the contrary that the steps of the change are those indicated by the successive genera of mammals.
Nobody has stated that these steps were of necessity those which the evidence at present available appears to show  on the contrary Osborn has expressly pointed out another possible method.
2 The relations of the entire organization of the animal world of the Puerco times  to that of the present are it is true far from clear and yet the connection of many Puerco genera with their Wasatch successors is so obvious as to deprive this objection of any Aveight.
The hypothesis that all the varieties of mammalian molars were derived from a single type of tooth is much more than a seductive speculation.
For many different groups it has such a high degree of probability as almost amounts to demonstration for no group has it been shown to be untrue and in those in which we cannot demonstrate its truth the necessary phyletic series has not yet been discovered.
On the other hand the history of the pi'emolars makes it evident that similar stages of dental evolution may be reached in different ways.
3 It is no objection to the truth of a morphological fact that we cannot give a physiological explanation of it.
Indeed the lectors of transformation form at present the most actively disputed questions of biology.
But whether or not mechanical or dynamical factors of change are admitted as efficient causes of transformation it is clear that they at least indirectly condition the result and that mechanically unfavorable changes cannot be perpetuated.
It is not difficult in a general way to see why anisognathism and movements of the jaw other than vertical should necessitate the reversed arrangement of points upon the crowns of the upper and lower molars because they are subjected to opposite strains.
Even in the premolars where the homologous cones are not reversed the reversal of form is as clearly shown as in the molars i. e. when the premolars reach a stage of complication comparable to that of the molars.
4 The considerations which Dybowski No.
3 Fleischmann and Mahn advance as showing that the anterior end of the lower molars is homologous with the posterior end of the upper ones and vice versa are derived from the resemblance of form in these parts respectively and from the assumption that in Arvicola the cement bands on the teeth are guides to homology.
But for purposes of morphological analysis resemblance of form is of no value whatever and as Mahn himself points out the positions of the cement bands in Arvicola is determined by the necessity of fixing the tooth in the alveolus without undue compression of the cells of the persistently functional enamel organ.
How deceptive mere resemblance of form may be is clearly shown by the facts of premolar evolution already alluded to viz. that in those genera which have molariform premolars there is the same apparent correspondence between the outside of the upper and the inside of the lovver premolars as obtains in the molars.
And yet as will be more fully shown in the sequel this correspondence is entirely of form and not of homology for in both superior and inferior premolars the protocone remains upon the external or buccal side of the crown.
When the line of argument adopted by Fleischmann and Mahn is pushed to the conclusion that the third lower molar is the homologue of the first upper molar it would certainly appear to be a reductio ad absurdum of the considerations which lead to such a result.
On Mahn's principles the fourth upper premolar of Castoroides and not the first molar may be proved to be homologous with the last inferior molar.
If the equivalence of  and m means anything at all it must imply that at some time in the early history of the mammals either the upper or lower series was turned about end for end mj now occupying the place originally held by .
Is such a thing conceivable
and if so what are the steps by which the change was brought about
Such a shifting could not be effected by a partial rotation of the upper tooth in one direction and of the lower tooth in the opposite direction.
The only safe method of determining the homologies of the various cusps in the protean forms assumed by the mammalian molar and premolar is that of followiugoutstep by step the changes which take place in well defined phyletic series.
Even embryology valuable as is the assistance which it affords must be used with great caution and in a general rather than a special way.
The shapes taken by embryonic teeth are seldom like anything which is known among fossil forms at least in matters of detail.
For example no one would infer from the ontogeny of the horse's molar that it had been derived from such types of dentition as those displayed by Hyracotheriiim Aiiehitherlam etc. and yet if any phyletic series may be regarded as well established it is that of the Equidie.
Knowing the phylogeny we are able to eliminate cenogenetic features and to show that the ontogeny in no way contradicts the results of palaeontology.
5 Fleischmann objects to Osborn's homologizing the cusps of the upper and lower molars.
Strictly speaking of course an upper tooth is not homologous with the corresponding lower tooth and nevertheless we speak very properly of the upper canine as equivalent to the lower etc.
In the Trlconodon molar there is no reason why the anterior basal cusps of the upper molars should not be homologous with the anterior cusps of the lower molar in the same sense that the protocone is equivalent to the protoconid.
All that Osborn's nomenclature implies is that in the tritubercular tooth a certain element represents the anterior cusps of the triconodont molar and in no way denies the possibility that the primitive simple coueshaplodont stage are reversed in the two jaws.
There is not a particle of evidence however for such a reversal in the haplodont stage nor is any fact known which could suggest a rotation of the upper and lower molars in opposite directions in stages subsequent to the triconodont.
If the series of genera selected by Osborn really represents the stages of molar development there is nothing like rotation but merely a lateral displacement of the cusps.
6 The conclusions which Fleischmann reaches from his examination of the marsupial dentition are quite inadmissible.
Palseontological discovery seems every day to make it more clear that the placental mammals are not derived from any marsupials as yet known but that placentals and marsupials form two distinct and divergent series.
The objection of uncertain phylogenetic relationship which Fleischmann urges against Osborn's series of genera applies with more force to any reasoning founded upon marsupial dentition.
In particular Fleischmann protests against the view that the talon of the lower molars is something superadded to the primitive triangle and unrepresented in the triconodont tooth.
But this objection leaves out of account the fact that the talon can be of importance only when the upper and lower molar series begin to alternate so that each lower molar opposes two upper ones  nor can the talon be functional until there is some displacement of the superior protocone and the tritubercular stage is reached giving a cusp which the talon can oppose.
In Trlconodon these conditions are not fulfilled.
Following Fleischmann's line of reasoning it might be shown that the posterior cusp of the cat's inferior sectorial was the  metamere  and equivalent to the talon but such a conclusion would be entirely erroneous as it has been demonstrated that in the cats' molar the talon has disappeared.
Furthermore the history of premolar development proves that the talon may be superadded to the primitive triangle and that the latter may be complete before the former makes its appearance.
At all events no conclusion as to such a problem can be safely drawn from the examination of teeth so far removed from the primitive condition as are those of Dasyurus
The mode of origin of the trigonodont or tritubercular molar which has been suggested by Cope and Osborn will be assumed as correct in comparing the premolars with the molars an assumption which is justified by the evidence at present available.
In the absence of any well defined phyletic series of mammals from the Triassic to the Puerco however the theory cannot be regarded as finally established.
The premolars have quite a different history and as I have elsewhere shown No.
11 pp.
489 even when these teeth have become completely molariform the elements which correspond in function and position to those of the molars are not homologous with them the key to these homologies being given by the position of the protocone.
The premolars do not display quite the same degree of constancy in the order of succession of their component cusps as do the molars.
For this reason the fourth superior premolar will be taken as the standard.
The primitive form of the premolar is a simple cone implanted by a single fang which is still preserved in several existing genera and which obviously corresponds to the protocone of the molars.
As early as the Puerco however we find that p  in every known genus is complicated by the addition of a second cusp upon the inner or lingual side of the protocone which may be called the deuterocone.
This bicusjiid tooth represents a pattern from which all the prenolar types of the higher mammalia may be simply and naturally derived by the continued addition of new parts which in many groups reach the same or an even greater degree of complication than the true molars.
Furthermore this tooth brings out clearly the important fact that while in the molar the protocone has shifted to the internal or lingual side of the crown in the premolar it remains npon the external or buccal side of the crown just as in the inferior molars.
From this it follows that the deuterocone has no exact homologue in the molar croAvn though functionally and in position it corresponds to the protocone of the molar and in the finished molariform premolar it occupies the anterointernal angle of the crown.
The relatively simple form of the fourth superior premolar which has been described occurs almost universally in the genera of the Puerco Eocene while the anterior premolars are for the most part as yet perfectly simple consisting of the protocone only.
In some genera however such as Miockenus P has likewise added a deuterocone.
In the molars the new complications very generally make their first appearance upon the first of the series and then successively upon the second and third and so in the premolars P is the first to assume new features and these then advance to the anterior premolars the first never reaching the full molar pattern even when the others have exceeded the molars in degree of complexity.
The second stage of premolar development consists in the addition of a second external cusp posterior to the protocone which I have called the tritocone and which corresponds to the paracone of the molar crown posteroexternal cusp but it cannot be regarded as homologous with that element because its position with reference to the protocone is entirely different.
This stage of development imitates very closely the trigonodont molar and very frequently t'liis type of premolar displays the intermediate conules either anterior posterior or both.
In position these conules correspond to the protoand raetaconules of the molars but are obviously not homologous with them.
How very gradually this addition of the tritocone may be eflfected is beautifully shown in the series formed by placing together the different varieties and species of Protogonia and Phenacodus
Here the tritocone may be seen in all stages from a very minute and scarcely visible cusp and gradually enlarging until it reaches the size of the protocone Phenacodus
This trigonodont stage of the fourth upper premolar is very widely distributed in the middle and upper Eocene occurring in nearly all perissodactyls and creodonts.
AVith some special modifications it persists to the present time in the sectorial of the Carnivora in many Insectivora and in some forms of Artiodactyla e. g. Dicotyles.
In many forms this pattern of tooth does not occur in advance of the fourth premolar while in others the second and third gradually assume the same structure as in most of the Eocene perissodactyles.
Even in Phenacodus is trigonodont while P consists of the protocone only.
The final step in the conversion of the premolars to the molar pattern is given by the addition of a fourth main element at the posterointernal angle of the crown the tetartocone which thus corresponds in position to the hypocone of the molars.
The incipient stages of this element maybe observed in Helaletes Desmatotherium among the perissodactyls and in Agriochcerus among the artiodactyls where it occurs as a minute and variable cusp just posterior to and hardly separated from the deuterocone.
So far as I have been able to observe the scheme of development of the premolar crown is quite constant and for p universally so and the nomenclature which is proposed for the pre5 v molar cusps is intended to express their  VBP  order of succession as they appear in Fig.
I. P.
However exceptions to this order of Procamdus occidentalis.
succession do occur in the anterior preThird and fourth upper pre molars.
For example in F of Procamemolars of left side  deutero   .
u' x.
 4  cone x additional anterior .
the inner crescent which in P1S cusp.
After Leidy.
formed by the extension of the deuterocone in both directions is produced by crests from the anterior and posterior edges of the protocone which have not yet come into contact with each other and thus leave a gap opposite the apex of the protocone.
As we shall see later the posterior ridge in this tooth probably represents the deuterocone.
Again in Hyracotherium venticolum v consists of two cusps the protoand tritocones which are in the same anteroposterior line and the deuterocone is little or not at all developed.
Other exceptions might be cited.
The development of the inferior premolars appears to be somewhat less regular and constant than that of the superior.
As in the upper jaw the complication begins with j
and advances anteriorly but it is worthy of Hyracotherium venticolum.
Qjce that in many forms the complicaSecond upper premolar of left  j .
 j premolars begins side r.
protocone .
tritocone.
'' ua u iv.
 I  o After Cope.
earlier and proceeds farther than in the case of the upper teeth.
As before the initial point must be taken as a simple conical cusp the protoconid.
Most of the existing unguiculates as well as some recent and many extinct ungulates retain more or fewer teeth which depart but little from this type.
In many forms the only addition to the protoconid consists in a small posterior basal cusp which the analogy of such Mesozoic mammals as Amphilestes and Trieonodon justifies us in regarding as the equivalent of the metaconid of the molars.
In many of the Carnivora a second posterior cusp is added to which however it is not necessary to give a name since it is of little importance and occurs in but few forms.
Frequently also an anterior basal cusp strictly comparable to the paraconid of the molars is added and a stage like that of the Trieonodon molar is attained consisting of elements which there is every reason to regard as homologous with the three primary cusps of the molars.
There is however a great difference as to the regularity with which the paraand metaconids are present and in the order of their succession  one or the other of them may never appear at all and while the metaconid is more frequently present and generally makes its appearance first yet this is by no means invariably the case.
Another difference from the molars consists in the ultimate fate of the metaconid in the molariform premolar where it becomes either part or the whole of the talon and always remains on the same anteroposterior line with the protoconid instead of shifting to the internal or lingual side of the latter.
In the premolars therefore when a cusp occurs occupying the position taken by the metaconid in the molars it cannot be regarded as homolosous with that element but rather with the deuterocone of the upper premolar and may consequently be called the deuteroconid.
The latter element also varies as to the relative time of its appearance  sometimes it is the only element present in addition to the protoconid e. g. Pelycodus Chriacus Protogonia or it may be developed after either the paraor the metaconid or it may appear last of all and in very many cases it is altogether absent.
Yet when it does appear its homologies are perfectly obvious.
A fifth element is sometimes added to the premolar crown posterior to the protoconid and interior to the metaconid thus occupying the position held by the entoconid of the molars.
Clearly however it cannot be homologous with that element its place with reference to the metaconid being entirely different.
Its homologies are rather with the tetartocone of the upper premolar as will appear when it is remembered that there is not that reversal in the position of the cusps of the inferior premolars compared with the superior ones which obtains between the upper and lower molars the primary cusp or protocone remaining upon the external side of the crown in both upper and lower premolars.
The tetartoconid is usually the last cusp to make its appearance upon the crown of the inferior jDremolar but there are exceptions to this rule.
For example in Trilsodon p consists of a very large protoconid and a lower but yet large heel or talon made up of the metaconid upon the outside and the tetartoconid on the inside  neither paranor deuteroconid is present.
In a former paper No.
11 pp.
489 I gave a somewdiat different account of the evolution of the lower premolar in that I regarded the talon of the premolars as equivalent to that of the molars and like it composed of hypoand entoconids.
This seemed to follow from the fact that the position of the cusps which make up the talon with reference to the protoconid is the same in both classes of teeth.
An examination of a more extended series of premolars has however convinced me that the external element of the premolar talon is the equivalent of the metaconid and not the hypoconid of the molar.
If this be true the internal element obviously cannot be the entoconid while its relation to the tetartocone of the superior premolar is the same as that of the deuteroconid to the deuterocone.
If the foregoing description be accepted as correct it will appear that while the inferior premolars may contain three elements which are homologous with molar cusps the upper premolars contain but one cusp which can be homologized with a molar cusp and furthermore that while in the molar crown the protocone is on the inner and the protoconid on the outer side in both sets of premolars upper as well as lowei it retains its primitive position upon the external side.
The following table will serve to exhibit the correspondences of position not of homology between the molar and premolar elements when all are present.
1892.
417 I ilu c iV fr hy fir mc nr hy A  JA .
la' d'' ia'' fux' meJ An'Fig.
3.
Diagram to exhibit the relations of the molar and premolar cusps showing the fourth premolar and first molar of the left upper jaw and right lower jaw pr protocone a deutcrocone tr tritocone te tetartocone paracone 7ne metacone y hypocone' protoconid rt paraconid vied metacoiiid tad tetarioconid hyd hypoconid end entoconid.
UPPER JAW.
LOWER JAW.
Molar.
Protocone Paracone Metacone Hypocone Premolar.
 Deuterocone  Protocone  Tritocone  Tetartocone Molar.
Protoconid Paraconid Metaconid Hypoconid Entoconid Premolar.
Protoconid Paraconid Deuterocouid Metaconid Tetartoconid It now remains to consider the facts of premolar evolution as they are exhibited by the various orders of mammals.
This is possible as yet for only a small number of groups the palieontological evidence as to the others being too incomplete.
The following orders will therefore be omitted  Monotremata Marsupialia Edentata Tillodontia Cetacea and Sirenia.
In those orders which are taken into consideration attention will be chiefly directed to the extinct forms.
I. PRIMATES.
In this order the Lemuroidea and theMesodonta will be included for the sake of convenience these groups all belonging to the same general series and characterized by great uniformity in the structure of the teeth.
The simplest type of premolar dentition in this series is presented by the Puerco genus 3Iixodectes.
Of this form only the inferior teeth are known and the premolars are remarkably simple they consist merely of a high acute and recurved protoconid w'ith a rudimentary metaconid as a heel which can hardly be called a 28 distinct element.
In AnaptoynorpJnis of the Wasatch and Bridger the lower premolars are as simple as in Mixodedes but the upper ones have added a deuterocone which is particularly well developed in p.
The type of jremolar structure which is most prevalent among the Eocene mesodonts is exemplified by Hyoprndua a genus which is very abundantly represented in the Wasatch Bridger and Uinta formations.
In this genus the number of the premolars is still unreduced being  the anterior members of the series are of small size and perfectly simple but the posterior two in each jaw have added new elements.
In the upper jaw P3  i have a crown transversely placed consisting of a trenchant pyramidal protocone and a smaller but well developed deuterocone.
In the lower jaw p has in addition to the protoconid only a rudimentary metaconid forming an inconspicuous heel  in p this heel is better developed and on or at the internal side of the protoconid appears a small deuteroconid.
In the existiug representatives of the series there is not very much advance upon the degree of premolar complication found among the Eocene mesodonts.
In the lemurs there is the remarkable change first pointed out by Schlosser No.
10 that the most anterior lower premolar has assumed the form and functions of the canine but it bites behind the upper canine.
In the higher primates the premolar type is that of the human bicuspid the crown consisting of two elements only the protocone and deuterocone.
The lower teeth do not exhibit the metaconid which as we have seen is imperfectly develojed in some of the Eocene forms.
II.
CREODONTA.
In this group there is considerable divergence as to the amount and kind of premolar development.
P 1 2 and 3 in both jaws ordinarily remain quite simple or at most complicated by the addition of a small posterior basal cusp in the inferior teeth representing the metaconid.
Sometimes however these teeth become very much more complicated as in Oxycena and Palceonictis in which Pz and 3 have large and well developed deuterocones and in Ps a tritocone is added so that this tooth becomes a reduced copy of the last premolar.
Several other genera display a more or less prominent deutei'ocone on Ps as foj example Deltatherium and Dissacus and in the lower jaw the metaconid may form a more or less prominent talon on p as in the case in Dmacus while in 0.cela these cutting talons appear on all the inferior premolars except the first increasing in size as we pass from before backward and thus corresponding with the development of the deuterocone in the upper premolars.
A very similar statement will apply to Ialceonicti.
The fourth premolar in both jaws exhibits great variety among creodonts from a completely molariform to an extremely simple condition.
Taking first the upper tooth we find in such Puerco genera as Oxyclcenns and Deltatherlinn the simplest which occurs among the creodonts viz. a compressed acute protocone with trenchant anterior and posterior edges and a conical deuterocone.
From this stage several distinct lines may be traced in as many diverging directions.
Proviverra agrees with Deltatherium in the construction of this tooth but in Sinopa Stypolophus it is complicated by the addition of a small tritocone and in some species of an anterior basal cusp or protostyle as well.
Sinopa has thus reached a stage of development of P4 in which all the elements of the carnivorous sectorial are present and yet the small size of the tooth and especially the incomplete development of the tritocone render the term sectorial inappropriate to such a tooth.
In some of the Hycenodontide however as Oxycena for example P4 fully deserves to be called a sectorial as the compressed protocone and enlarged trenchant tritocone form a very efficient cutting blade.
But even here the main emphasis of development is on the first molar which is larger and of more functional importance than the premolar.
In this genus.
Pa also has all the elements of a sectorial.
In Hycenodon itself P4 is reduced in size and importance m being the largest and most efficient tooth in the series  the protocone is large but the tritocone is insignificant and the deuterocone so diminished that in some species it can hardly be said to exist as a separate element.
Palceoiiidi though obviously belonging to a phylum very distinct from that of the hyseuodonts closely resembles OxycBua in the condition of the superior premolars.
The MiacidB alone among creodonts have attained the carnivorous type of dentition.
The superior sectorial is not it is true more efiiciently developed than in Oxycena but on the other hand the upper molars are tubercular not sectorial at all.
In Didymictis P4 is quite like that of the viverrines owing to the presence of a small but very distinct anterior basal cusp.
A very different type of premolar tooth is that assumed by P in the Mesonyclddce.
Though the same elements are present as in 420 1892.
Sinopa their shape and mutual relations are altogether different.
In Dis.iacus the oldest genus of the family this tooth has all the elements of the carnivorous sectorial but the tritocoue is added in the form of a conical tubercle which is considerably smaller than the protocone and not of a trenchant blade.
In Pachycena of the Wasatch and still more in the Bridger genus Mesonyx the gradual enlargement of the tritocoue gives to the fourth premolar completely the pattern of the simple tritubercular molars.
Little is known with regard to the superior premolars of the Ardocyonidce.
In Clcenodon Mlockenus corrngatus and presumably also Aretocyon Pa is a simple compressed conical tooth supported by two fangs and therefore without deuterocone.
Ij has a very high and acute pyramidal protocone on the anterior and posterior edges of which the cingulum is so elevated as almost to deserve the name of cusps.
The tooth is implanted by three fangs and yet the deuterocone is very obscurely marked.
If we may provisionally assign to this family the extraordinary and problematical genus Miocloenm the systematic position of which is altogether doubtful we may mention here the curiously thick low rounded and massive premolars which characterize the genus.
1 has a very distinct deuterocone and in Ps this element is more or less distinctly differentiated.
These premolars are very much more like those of some of the PerijAyehidce than they are like those of any known creodont.
 ji J 4  Fig.
4.
Fourth lower premolars of the left side internal aspect.
1 
Tricentes subtrigo7ius  2 
Clanodo7i protogonioides  3 Chriacus stenops  4 Epichriacus schlosserianus  5 Deltatherium fundaminis.
prdprotoconid a'' deuteroconidjajparaconid med metaconid.
Cope collection.
In the lower jaw p generally has a heel formed by the more or less enlarged metaconid and thus differs from the anterior premolars merely in its greater size and more developed heel.
The paraconid is rarely added though it becomes of importance in the Mesonychidce.
In Dlssacns the paraconid is very small but distinctly shown on pandS which have the protoconid remarkably high and acute.
In Pachymna a similar condition may be observed but the protoconid is relatively reduced and the metaconid enlarged.
In Mesonyx the paraconid makes its appearance on p No member of this family develops a deuteroor tetartoconid in the inferior premolars.
In the Mesonychidce the lower premolars thus become molariform bat the resemblance between the two classes of teeth is due not only to the complication of the premolars but also to the simplification of the molars in which the paraconid is reduced and the metaand entoconids have altogether disappeared.
The elements composing the crowns of the two categories of teeth are more nearly homologous than is usually the case the protoand paraconids being common to both but the talons are not homologous being formed in the premolars by the metaconid and in the molars by the hypoconid.
In the Triisodontidie p has a distinct resemblance to the corresponding tooth in the Mesonychidif but the paraconid is not developed and in Triisodon and Sircothraudes the lai'ge transversely directed heel is divided into two parts the metaand tetartoconids.
In Goniacodon the latter element does not occur.
In Ardocyon and Clcenodon p is remarkable for its great relative size but is very simply constructed having in addition to the protoconid merely an obscurely developed metaconid.
In TetraclcEiiodon however p has all the elements of a molar but the paraconid is very small and the talon neither so high nor so complex as in the molars.
Oiriacus if we may assign that genus to the Creodonta presents an entirely different type of p from any which has been yet described in this group and one which is much more characteristically mesodont than creodont.
In this tooth the only element besides the protoconid which is present is a small but perfectly distinct deuteroconid upon the lingual side of the crown.
Epichriacus has in addition to this a very small paraconid.
In Deltatherium the  primitive triangle  a term which is applicable to the premolars only by analogy as it is rarely attained and then only in advanced stages of differentiation is almost as completely developed as in the molars.
In addition there is a rudimentary heel in the form of a very small metaconid which strange to say has not kept pace with the development of the deuterocone of P3.
Not including the MeOJiychidce which belong in a somewhat different category there are not less than three genera of creodonts in which attains more or less completely to the molar pattern viz. EpichriaCMS Deltatherium and Tetrachenodon.
The later genera of the Proviverridce have exceedingly simple inferior premolars.
In Sinopa i
and  have very obscure metaconids and in the latter there is an equally obscure paraconid.
In the Ilycenodontidce p has only a more or less enlarged metaconid in addition to the protoconid.
In Oxycena the metaconid forms a large trenchant blade  in Hycenodon the heel is much reduced but the protoconid is greatly enlarged so that with the exception of the canine and m p is the laigest tooth in the jaw.
Pterodon resembles Hycenodon in this respect.
Quercytherivm clearly a member of this family is remarkable for the massiveness of its inferior premolars which almost rival those of Mioclcenus.
Palceonidis has very similar inferior premolars to those of Oxycena except for the much greater relative enlargement of p In the Bridger genus Patriofelis this enlargement is carried still further and at the same time the number of inferior premolars is reduced to three.
THdymictis is remarkable for the anteroposterior elongation of p3 and which have small but very well marked paraand metaconids.
In p the cingulum is raised on the hinder border of the tooth making a second posterior cusp behind the metaconid.
III.
INSECTIVORA.
In many of the existing insectivores the premolars have undergone considerable modification but unfortunately we can obtain but little assistance from palaeontology in attempting to make out the steps of this modification.
Among American genera of this order there is only one family which is at all well understood viz. the Leptictidce and in this group strange to say the oldest member yet discovered exhibits the most complicated premolar structure.
This genus Ictop has been found only in the AVind River beds at the base of the Bridger and in the White liiver though there can be no doubt that it existed in the intervening period.
In Idops the premolars show an unusual degree of complication for an unguiculate mammal.
In the upper jaw J is very small and implanted by a single fang.
Pj is likewise small but is carried by two fangs and has a small tritocone but no deuterocone.
In Ps the protocone is very high and the tritocone though distinct is much smaller  there is also a well developed deuterocone so that all the molar elements are present though owing to the disproportionate size of the protoand tritocones the tooth cannot be called niolariform.
Ij is even more comi3licated than the molars.
As in the latter the two external cusps are of equal size and the deuterocone is much extended transversely also a small tetartocone corresponding to the hypocoue of the molars is present.
In addition to these parts there is a small basal cusp at the anteroexternal angle of the crown which does not occur in the molars but which is found on Pi of many creodonts and carnivores.
In the lower jaw j
andVare small and simple the former being carried by one root and the latter by two  this tooth is larger than the corresponding upper one.
T has added a small metacouid.
T is molariform with the metaconid enlarged to a talon and paraand deuteroconids added.
This tooth is distinguished from a true molar only by the greater relative size of the protoconid.
The White River species of this genus J. dakotensis differs from the more ancient one with respect to the dentition only in the fact that the deuterocone of P is no longer a conical cusp but transversely extended and crescentoid the protoand tritocones are also more nearly equal in size  in other words the tooth is now completely molariform even to a rudiment of the tetartocone.
In the White River genus Jesofecfe.SjP is molariform but Pa has no tritocone the tooth consisting of a compressed and trenchant protocone and internal to this a conical deuterocone.
Cope calls these teeth P4 and  respectively but this I think is a mistake.
At all events the statement that  in Leptictls the last premolar is sectorial in form consisting of a single compressed longitudinal crest without internal tuberosity or cusp  is incorrect.
No.
2 p.
801.
In the genus Leptictls also from the White River beds p. is without the deuterocone and resemblesthe anterior remolars in every respect except that it is slightly larger.
4 is molariform and Pi differs from that of Ictops in being inserted by two fangs.
So far as we can judge at present the series Ictops Mesodectes Leptictis would appear to represent successive stages in the simplification of Ps.
Doubtless the same is true of the lower premolars but the mandibular dentition of Mesodectes and Leptictis is unknown.
Somewhat similar facts may be observed in comparing some of the extinct European iusectivores with their nearest living allies.
Thus Schlosser No.
10. p. 117 regards the genus Parasorex as in some measure connecting the Tupaiidce and the MacroscelidB but the extinct form has more complex premolars than either of the 424 1892. recent families.
In like manner Ampliidozotherium from the Oligocene resembles the Tapuhe in molar structure and is referred to that fiiniily but it has more complex premolars than the existing moles.
The recent genus Gyrnnura agrees very well with Leptictis with regard to the condition of the premolars the last one in each jaw having the elements of the molar crown.
IV.
CARNIVORA.
In this group the premolars never acquire any very great degree of complication.
In the Pinnipedia the molars and premolars are very much alike though this is due rather to a simplification of the molars than to any complexity in the premolars.
These teeth may either be simple conical bodies as in the Otariidce and hooded seals Gystojora with a crown consisting of a simple cusp and implanted by a single fang  or as in the typical Phocidce both classes of teeth are assimilated to one type characterized by the suppression of the internal cusps and the addition of sharp basal cusps on the anterior and posterior edges of the principal cone which appears to iepresent the paracone in the upper molars and the protocone in the premolars of both jaws and the lower raolars.
We are however as yet entirely ignorant of the phylogeny of the pinnipedes and cannot therefore very well determine the homologies of these elements.
The dentition of the creodont family Memnychidce presents many analogies to that of the true seals but there can be no question of a genetic relationship between the two groups.
Fig.
5.
Fourth upper premolar of left side external and crown views.
1 Deltatherium fuiidamniis  2 Siiiopa njiiius 3 Cynodictis gracilis 4 Felis concolor.
Pr protocone d deuterocone tr tritocone ps protostjle.
1 and 2 from the Cope collection.
The premolars of the fissipede carnivores have a different history lu the upper jaw the anterior premolars are ordinarily composed of a compressed and more or less trenchant protocone and on Pz and 3 a small tritocone may also be added.
According to Schlosser No.
10 p. 265 the Galeeynns ceiiingensis of Owen is remarkable for the presence of anterior cusps upon tbese teeth.
The fourth or sectorial premolar is constructed on essentially the same plan throughout the group a plan which is already foreshadowed in many creodonts and fully attained in the Mlacidce.
Typically this tooth consists of three elements the proto deuteroand tritocones the first and third of which are more or less compressed and trenchant and form the shearing blade.
But there is much variation in regard to the relative size and shape of these elements and consequently in the efficiency of the tooth as a sectorial weapon.
In several groups a fourth element is added  viz. a cusp situated at the anteroexternal angle of the crown.
This cusp which appears to be homologous with the anteroexternal buttress or pillar of the perissodactyl premolar reaches its highest development in the cats though in the earliest members of that group the Nimravidce it is always small and sometimes rudimentary or absent e. g.
Dinictis.
The same element occurs in the viverrines the hysenas and the curious cynoid genus JElurodon of the Loup Fork has it largely developed.
The dentition of this genus presents some analogies with that of the hytenas especially in the massiveness of the premolars.
The same cusp also occurs in the creodont Didymictis.
In the Viverridce the deuterocone is unusually well developed and in some of the genera is joined to the protocone by a sharp ridge running outward and backward.
The hyseuas display an unusual complication in that the outer wall of the sectorial consists of four cusps an additional one occurring behind the tritocone.
The derivation of the bears fiom primitive dogs is now very generally admitted and the series of genera Amphicyon Bemicyon Hycenarctos and JJrsus enables us to trace the successive modifications of the upper sectorial.
In the first named genus the upper sectorial is like that of a dog but somewhat thickened  in Hemicyon the tooth has become transversely extended and the deuterocone has shifted from the anterior edge to the middle line of the crown.
In Hycenarctos P is reduced in relative size and all the cusps are lower and more massive and in Ursiis the same process is carried still further the deuterocone has become almost atrophied and the protoand tritocones are so low and blunt that the tooth no longer deserves the name of sectorial.
Among the Miistelide we find the upper sectorial very variously developed.
In most cases it is constructed as in the dogs.
In the otters the deuterocone is enormously expanded both transversely and anteroposteriorly.
In Meles the sectorial is small but possesses a minute tetartocone situated midway between the tritoand deuterocones while in Taxidea the tooth is large and the tetartocone acute and prominent and yet the crown does not lose its triangular shape.
In the Procyonidce the upper sectorial has likewise become degraded to a tubercular condition very similar to the construction of the molars but even more complex.
In Procyon there are three external cusps the anterior accessory cone the protoand tritocones the two latter of nearly equal height and conical shape.
The inner side of the crown is nearly as long anteroposteriorly as the outer and is composed of two elements the deuteroand tetartocones.
In Cercolejytes Pj is very similar to that of the viverrine genus Ardictis and is a quadrituberculate tooth of nearly square outline.
The lower premolars of the Carnivora are always more or less simple and trenchant though they vary much in respect to thickness height acuteness etc.
They very generally display the metaconid and sometimes an additional basal cusp is formed by the elevation of the cingulum posterior to the metaconid.
The paraconid is seldom developed but occurs in many of the viverrines even the excessively microdont dentition of Eitpleres exhibits it.
V. RODENTIA.
Our knowledge of the phylogeny of the rodents is so incomplete and fragmentary that little can be said with regard to the evolution of their premolars.
The most striking fact about these teeth is the great reduction which they have undergone.
In several genera they are altogether absent and in the great majority of species the formula is x or .
The most ancient genus of rodents whose dentition is Avell known is Plesiardomys which is found in all the American Eocenes above the Puerco and in the upper Eocene of Europe.
In those animals the premolar formula and the construction of the clowns are like those of the squirrels fIn the upper jaw the first premolar p is a rudimentary tooth and the second P is molariform  a tritubercular crown consisting of two external cusps the protoand tritocones and the deuterocone internally.
It is interesting to observe that this construction of P corresponds closely to what we find in many insectivores and creodonts.
The inferior premolar also has all the elements of a molar though their relative 1892.
427 proportions are somewhat different  tliere is a high protoconid a much smaller deuteroconid and a talon consisting of metaand tetartoconids  the cusps are all connected around the periphery of the crown by crests which thus enclose a deep central concavity.
The teeth of later rodent genera often attain a very high degree of complication and when premolars are present they follow all the stages of molar evolution at least in the case of the fourth pair but materials are wanting to enable us to trace the steps of increasing complexity.
VI.
CONDYLARTHRA.
In the family Phenacodontidce some very instructive series may be observed.
The superior dentition of Protogonodon MiodiBnus pe7itaeus Cope is unknown but in the lower jaw the premolars even the last one are simple acute cones but rudiments of a deuteroconid are observable in some specimens now larger now smaller.
In Protogonia this element becomes enlarged and very distinctly separated from the protoconid and at the same time a rudimentary metaconid makes its appearside internal aspect.
1 and 2 of q j Phenacodusortmani in adProtogofiodon pentacus 3 of Pro.
  .
i togoma pliciferao prd xoozoxxA dition to these elements aparaconid pad z.2.com.A vied metaconid 'j' jg developed and the metaconid is eledeuteroconid.
Cope colleciion.
 i t r      ' vated.
In P. prwiceviis a paraconid and a very small tetartoconid are added and p is now made more complex by the appearance of the deuteroconid which is present in rudimentary form even on K A similar series may be made out in the upper jaw.
 is simple in Protogonia and contains only the protocone while P has added the deuterocone.
In Phenacodusortmani P has also acquired the tritocone and besides this we find the anterointermediate cusp or conule analogous to and occupying the same relative position as the protoconule of the molars though obviously not homoloofous with that element.
Fig.
7.
The occurrence of the Upper premolars of Condylarthra right side.
1 conules is one of esjecial p and  o PhenacodusrinuEvtis.
2 of P.vorl.
 A' f ma7ii 3 p of Protogonia siibquadrata pr protointerest as tCUamg tO cone d deuterocone tr tritocone.
After Cope.
show that the premolar Fig.
6.
Fourth lower premolar of right crests in the perissodactyls where they attain such a high development arise as in the molars from the extension of the intermediate cusps and their coalescence with the internal and external cones.
P in this species is also tritubercular but the deuteroand trito cones are very obscurely marked and the tooth is very much smaller than p.
P. primcBvus differs from P. vortmani in the increased size and quadrate shape of P and in the much more distinctly separated elements of P The PeiiptycJitdte have less complex premolars than the preceding family.
In Periptychus itself the superior premolars except the first have deuterocones which have become crescentoid and thus remotely suggest the corresponding teeth of the true ruminants.
The composition of the lower premolars is not altogether clear but p and  appear to have merely a rudimentary crestlike heel while p has a deuteroconid a rudimentary paraconid and a heel which consists of metaand tetartoconids.
This tooth therefore contains all the molar elements but still it cannot be called molariform on account of the slight elevation of the heel.
Hemithlceus has very simple premolars.
Fjind consist of the protoand deuterocones only.
In the lower jaw the first and second premolars have only the protoconid with no accessory lobes whatever  the composition of p' and  is not known.
The different species of Anisonchus display an advancing degree of premolar complication.
In A. gilUanus Pis a simple massive cone while P and  have well developed deuterocones.
P has a thick protoconid and very small paraand metaconids which are hardly more than elevations of the cingulum.
In p the metaconid is elevated into a considerable heel.
The first and second upper premolars of A. sedorius are not known but in p' and  the deuterocones have become much enlarged and form crescentlike ridges and minute rudiment
of the tritocone may also be detected.
In the lower jaw p  and  have the paraand metaconids Avell differentiated.
In A. corniferus all of the superior premolars are implanted by three fangs and though it is not certain that p possesses a deuterocone all the others clearly have it.
At the same time not even P has developed a tritocone.
The superior premolars of Haplocomis are known only for two species H. lineatus and H. entoconus and both agree in the simplicity of all except P which has the usual deuterocone but in the former species this element forms a crescent and in the latter a conical tubercle.
The lower premolars have metaconid heels of varying degrees of development in the different sjDecies but no deuteroconid  in H. xiphodon and H. Uneaius the talon metaconid of P' and  is separated by a median depression into long external and internal ridges a tendency which also appears in many primitive artiodactyls.
In all the members of the Periptychidae there is a more or less decided tendency for the premolars to become very massive and in many species they are distinctly larger than the molars.
VII.
HYRACOIDEA.
The discovery recently announced by Professor Marsh No.
6 of the footstructure of Menlxcotherium justifies in my opinion the removal of that genus and family from the Condylarthra to the Hyracoidea.
Meniscotherium low as is its place in the geological scale already exhibits a considerable degree of premolar complication and although we cannot assert that it is the ancestor of Procavia Hyrax see Oldfield Thomas No.
13 yet it will suffice to show the stages of dental evolution.
P is small and simple implanted by a single fang P has a similar but somewhat larger crown and is inserted by two roots.
 has a deuterocone of more or less crescentic pattern while P is almost molariform.
The protoand tritocones are of nearly equal size are compressed and so joined together as to make a wall.
The deuterocone is a large conical tubercle and the anterior and posterior conules are present thus forming a tooth which has almost exactly the same construction as  which lacks the hypocone as P does the tetartocone.
There is some variation in the construction of this tooth in the presence or absence of a ridge upon the external wall of the crown marking the separation between the protoand tritocones and also in the condition of the cingulum.
In the lower jaw the premolars are very small and simple.
F has a minute heel and the fangs are fused together.
F is similar but slightly larger.
P is molariform and consists of two crescents the composition of which is as follows  the protoconid sends a curved crest inward and forward to what may or may not be the paraconid and a straight crest inwardly to the deuteroconid  the posterior crescent is likewise formed by two ridges which pass from the metaconid to the tetartoand deuteroconids respectively.
In Procavia Hyrax the premolars have all assumed a molar pattern and the lophodont condition is more completely attained though in the unworn tooth the separate elements may still be made out which show that the premolars are constructed essentially like the hindermost of the series in Meniscotherium.
VIII.
PERISSODACTYLA.
A very high degree of premolar differentiation is characteristic of this group.
In all of the existing fjxmilies these teeth have assumed the molar pattern a tendency which very early becomes apparent in the ancestral forms and even the extinct phyla such as the Hyracodontidce Palceotkeriidce Titanotheriidce etc. run through the same course.
The Wasatch perissodactyls have all advanced beyond the Phenacodontidce which are contemporary with them so far as dental evolution is concerned.
In Systemodon the only one of the superior premolar series which is without additions to the protocone is the first and even in that there is a faint anterior thickening of the cingulum which represents the pillar or buttress so conspicuous on the other premolars.
P has quite a large deuterocone and a rudimentary tritocone which is barely separated from the protocone the anterior pillar is slightly better developed than on p.
Seen from the external or buccal side P and  resemble the molars having protoand tritocones of nearly equal size and the anterior pillar largely developed  internally however there is only one cusp the deuterocone which sends out two crests toward the outer wall of the tooth.
These crests a2pear to be developed from conules analogous to those of the molars and in P the posterior conule is not connected with either the deuteroor the tritocone.
The inferior premolars vary somewhat in the different species of the genus.
In S. semihians p3is very simple having added only a small metaconid to the compressed and acute protoconid.
P has also two internal cusps the deuteroconid in front and tetartoconid behind.
The number of cusjds present is thus the same as in the molars but the small size of the internal elements and the low heel give to the crown a very different appearance.
In S. tapirinus p consists of two crescentshaped cusps the protoand metaconids of which the former rises considerably higher than the latter but the tooth possesses no internal elements at all.
P has a similar crescentshaped metaconid but the protoconid is compressed and pointed.
The genus Isedolophus which continues this series through the Bridger and Uinta formations does not present any modifications in premolar structure which require special description.
In the White River form Mesotapirns the last upper premolar has assumed the molar pattern by the addition of a tetartocone and in the lower jaw p and  have the same number of elements as the molar crowns but in their appearance they differ fi'om those teeth owing to the much greater prominence of the protoconid.
The existing representative of this line is the tapir which like the other recent families of the group has all the premolars except the first in both jaws of the molar type.
This is brought about merely by the addition of the tetartocone in the upper teeth and by the elevation of tlie heel in the lower ones.
In the rhiaoceros series essentially the same steps may be observed.
The most ancient known member of the series though perhaps not in the direct line of descent is the Wasatch Heptodon in which the last three upper premolars are composed of the same elements differing only in size and in the degree of separation of the tritocone from the protocone.
In all of these teeth the deuterocone with its anterior and posterior crests is present and in all there is a well marked anterior buttress formed by the elevation of the cingulum and which on P4 is as large as in the molars.
P is extremely small.
In the lower jaw p appears to be wanting and the others increase in size and complexity posteriorly.
P has an anterior crest composed of the protoand deuteroconids and a basinshaped heel of which the outer and inner cusps are only obscurely indicated.
This tooth is therefore nearly molariform.
In p3 the deuteroconid is present but not at all prominent and does not form a crest with the protoconid and the heel is still smaller and lower than on p.
The superior premolars of the Bridger genus Hyrachyus are essentially the same as those of Heptodon as are also the inferior series except that p' has approximated somewhat more closely to the molar condition owing to the greater elevation of the heel.
Helaletes Desmatotherkim however though contemporary with Hyrachyus exhibits an important advance in the appearance of the tetartocone on P3 d  as a very minute cusp hardly separated from the deuterocone.
In the Uinta form Amynodon the separation of the deuteroand tetartocones is complete but the crests and especially the posterior one are very low.
Even in Aceratheriuvi the White Kiver rhinoceros the deuteroand tetartocones are much more closely approximated than are the analogous cusps of the molars protoand hypocones and in advanced stages of wear the premolars present a somewhat different appearance from the molars seeming to have but one internal element in which both anterior and posterior transverse crests unite.
In the lower jaw the transformation is more complete p   being altogether like the molars though as we have seen the elements were already present in Hyrachyus.
In the later genera of the rhinoceros line such as Aphelops Bhinocerus etc. the last three premolars in both jaws are hardly to be distinguished from molars.
It will be unnecessary to describe the evolution of the premolars in the TrijdopusHyraeodon series as in them essentially the same stages may be noted.
Turning now to the Titanotheriam line we find a very similar order of events.
The most ancient genus which can be referred to this series is the AVasatch Lamhdothermm in which P2  3 are trigonodont consisting of proto deuteroand tritocones with a more or less clearly defined anterior conule.
One important diflference however between the upper premolars and molars should be noted viz. that in the former the external cusps are convex more or less strongly onthe outer side while the external cusps of the molars are deeply concave on the outer side and thus form Vshaped crests.
In the lower jaw p is very simple it consists of a high acute protoconid a well developed metaconid and an anterior basal elevation which may represent a rudimentary paraconid.
On p the metaconid is enlarged and a minute deuteroconid makes its appearance upon the internal or lingual side of the protoconid.
P is almost molariform  the protoand deuteroconids form a crest and a very low and inconspicuous tetartoconid is added.
However neither the anterior nor the posterior V characteristic of the molars is complete owing to the rudimentary character of both the paraaud tetartoconids.
The Bridger genera Palceosyop' and Tehnatherium aside from their larger size have premolars very much like those of Lambdotherium only the fourth inferior premolar has the Vshaped crests better developed through the elevation of the paraand tetartoconids.
In Telmatherium this elevation has proceeded so far that the tooth may fairly be called molariform.
In the upper jaw we observe the same striking diflTerence between the convex external lobes of the premolars and the deeply concave ones of the molars.
Another change is the reduction or suppression of the conules in both classes of teeth.
This series is represented in the Uinta beds by Diplacodon in which Pi has become like the molars through the addition of the tetartocone and the corresponding tooth in the lower jaw is completely so.
The line ends with the extraordinary genus Titanotheriuvi of the lower White River horizon in which V2iAa have added the second internal cusp and thus become molariform though the difference in the form of the external cusps becomes even more marked than in the older genera of the series for although those of the premolars have become somewhat flattened those of the molars have become excessively concave and are separated by a very prominent fold of enamel which projects much more strongly than in Palceosyops.
Another difference between the two classes of teeth is the much smaller size of the premolars.
In the lower jaw also pVand  have become molariform in a way that is unnecessary to describe since it is the same as that already given in the case of p for Lamhdotherium and Telmatherium.
IX.
ARTIODACTYLA.
The members of this group never attain the high degree of homodontism which is characteristic of all the later perissodactyls and yet they display a considerable amount of premolar complication and one which is brought about in very different ways in the different groups of the order there not being the same uniformity in the steps of differentiation which we have found among the perissodactyls.
The most primitive type of artiodactyl dentition is that of Pantolestes of the Wasatch a genus the true systematic position of which was made clear only by the discovery of its footstructure.
Previously it had been referred to the mesodonts and creodonts.
In Pantoledes brachydomus the only species in which the feet are known Pi and  have not been found but Pa and  agree in structure having one external and one internal cusp the protoand deuterocones respectively.
The lower premolars are extremely simple.
p2   are elongated in the anteroposterior direction and have compressed trenchant crowns which are made up of the large protoconid with minute but distinct and sharp paraand metaconids.
From the Pantoledes type of dentition many divergent lines may be traced.
We may begin our examination with the Oreodontidoe an extremely peculiar American family of which the most ancient member known is the Uinta genus Protoreodon.
Here the upper premolars are very simple having a compressed protocone with 29 trenchant edges a deuterocone is clearly marked only on P4 where it has become crescentic in shape while P2  3 have trihedral crowns but no distinct internal element.
In the lower jaw pi has become much elevated and pointed and has taken on the form and function of a canine the true canine having gone over to the incisor series as in the true ruminants.
This disposition of pi is highly characteristic of the family.
The other premolars p'   have neither paranor metaconids but compressed trenchant and acute protoconids upon the inner side of which low ridges inclose two shallow fosse one anterior and the other posterior.
It is difficult to homologize these ridges with the elements which we have described in the premolars of other groups.
The later oreodonts are divided into two very distinct lines the Agi'iochoerince and the Oreodontincp.
In the former subfamily the White River genus Agriochoeruy displays an unusual degree of premolar complication for an arliodactyl.
In the upper series the anterior three teeth are very simple and the external surface of the protocone is convex or flattened but 3 has a small deuterocone which is somewhat back of the middle.
14 is almost molariform  the tritocone is somewhat smaller than the protocone and both are concave on the outer side though somewhat less so than the molars.
The tetartocone is a mere rudiment.
In the lower jaw pi is as in the other members of the family like a canine in form and function  p'and are simple compressed cones while p has all the elements of a molar and consists of two pairs of crescents  the anterior pair is made up of the protoand deuteroconids and the posterior pair of the metaand tetartoconids.
In one respect however this tooth is different from a molar in that the deuteroconid retains its conical shape and in consequence the anterior valley opens inward in front of it whereas in the molar the metaconid which occupies an analogous position is compressed and flattened and by its extension forward encloses the valley completely.
P of Agriochceriis is much like the curious molars of LopJiiotneryx.
In the Oieodontince the premolars develop in somewhat difierent fashion.
I is like that of the true ruminants and has a single pair of crescents the deuterocone having a completely crescentic shape.
The anterior premolars when seen from the outside appear to be perfectly simple and trenchant but the inner side of the crown has a number of ridges disposed as loops and festoons and which seem to stand in no very definite relation to the premolar elements heretofore described though in position they correspond to the erescentic ridges which in Pi run from the deuterocone to the anterior and posterior edges of the protocone.
The posterior crest is best developed and on Ps is especially prominent.
In the lower series pi is enlarged simple and caniniform  p and  are smaller and have compressed pyramidal protoconids from the apex of which an oblique ridge descends internally ending in an exceedingly minute deuteroconid  a small talon is present on jA The last premolar has the deuteroconid much increased and almost equalling the protoconid in height  the low talon consists of the metaconid and a very small tetartoconid.
The genera Merychyus and Merycochcerus closely resemble Oreodon in the character of their dentition but have made some advances in the structure of the premolars.
Thus in p and  the internal crescentic ridges have almost united and so when somewhat worn present an appearance not unlike that of Pj.
On p the deuteroconid is more distinct and on  it is separated from the protoconid by a wider interval producing a pattern quite like that seen in the lower premolars of early members of the true ruminant line.
Leptauchenia exhibits again a different order of events.
Pi is very small and simple  on P and ' the anterior crescentic ridge has disappeared while the posterior one is somewhat extended and thus the crown of the tooth is invaded by a deep narrow valley which runs backward and outward from the anterointernal angle.
The inferior premolars are simplified and reduced in size  only p displays a distinct deuteroconid and heel.
Cyclopidius and Pithecistes exaggerate the peculiarities of skull structure shown in Leptauchenia and it may be presumed that the same is true of their dental characters but the valleys are obliterated so early in these teeth that I can state nothing further than the very obvious fact of a great reduction in size of the premolars.
In the tylopodan series the premolars of Leptoiragulus are not sufficiently well known to detain us and we may therefore commence our survey with the White River genus Poebrotherium.
In this form Pi has a simple and trenchant crown which is remarkable for its fore and aft extension.
F and 3 are of the same general character but are even more elongated anteroposteriorly and Ps sometimes exhibits the posterior internal crescentic ridge though this is variable.
P4 is of the ordinary selenodont pattern composed of crescentic protoand deuterocones.
pi has a small and simple crown.
The other premolars are greatly extended anteroposteriorly and are greatly compressed  on jluid the deuteroconid is represented by a ridge which descends from the inner side of the apex of the protoconid which is obscurely indicated on p but distinct on p.
All the premolars except the first have paraconids.
In ProGameUii of the Loup Fork the first and second upper premolars are small and simple in the third an internal crescent is almost completed by the extension of the anterior and posterior internal ridges which have not quite coalesced and leave a small gap opposite the apex of the protocone.
P4 is of the typical ruminant pattern and resembles that of Poebrotherium.
The most peculiar stage of premolar reduction in the cameline series is however that displayed by the Pliocene genera Holovieniscus and Eschafius which have lost all the premolars except the fourth of each series.
In the former genus P4 is of the ordinary pattern composed of an external crescent the protocone and the crescentic deuterocone while in Eschatius this tooth is reduced to a simple cone through the suppression of the internal element.
In the Tragulina the premolars remain very simple and trenchant with small and sharp anterior and posterior basal cusps though P4 is of the typical ruminant pattern.
The curious little White River genus Leptomeryx if I do not err in referring it to this group is remarkable for the complexity of its premolars.
P and 3 have elongated and acute protocones with trenchant margins and well developed conical deuterocones and on P3 a small ridge passes from the anterior edge of this element to the outer side of the crown enclosing a small valley.
In Tragulns the deuterocone is the merest rudiment and it should be added that specimens of Leptomeryx occur with premolars as simple as those of the recent genus.
The lower premolars of Leptomeryx are also more complex than in Tragulns.
F is very small and simple and is isolated by a diastema both before and behind it  the succeeding teeth have acute and trenchant protoconids to which is added on J
a metaconid and on pS and both paraand metaconids.
On the latter the deuteroconid is represented by a thin crest which runs back from the apex of the protoconid parallel to its posterior margin and enclosing a deep valley  an indication of the same structure but not nearly so marked is visible on p.
The main facts of premolar evolution among the Pecora will be sufficiently explained by a consideration of the series Dicholnme Gelocus Prodremotherium and Palceomeryx without taking into account the numerous small variations which occur amonff the recent forms.
Dichohune displays no important advance over Pantoledes in the structure of the upper premolars but the last lower one p has in addition to the proto paraand metaconids a distinct tubercular deuteroconid.
Gelocus although a typical ruminant and much nearer to the modern types than Dichobune in almost every particular of structure has nevertheless made no noteworthy advance over that genus as regards the character of the premolars.
In Prodremotherium P3 has completed the internal crescent but it is important to notice that the deuterocone is eccentric in position and much nearer to the posterior margin of the rown than the anterior.
P2 has a rudimentary deuterocone.
In the lower jaw p has when seen from the outer side a trilobate appearance the proto paraand metaconids being all present  in addition to these there is a well marked deuteroconid and a less distinct tetartoconid which are connected by very short transverse ridges with the external cusps which stand opposite to them.
On piand these internal elements are indicated only by faintly marked ridges.
Pakeomeryx has all the upper premolars of the same pattern the inner crescent being now completed on the most anterior tooth P2 and the deuterocone having assumed a symmetrical position on 3.
The inferior premolars are like those of Prodremotherium except that on pSaiid the internal cusps and transverse ridges are much better developed and the enclosed valleys deeper  pis somewhat reduced.
From this condition that of the lower teeth in the various recent families may readily be traced.
It would not be worth while to describe the numberless minor variations of the premolars which occur in the various genera of extinct selenodonts contained in the families of the anoplotheres anthracotheres xiphodonts etc.
It will suffice to mention some of the more salient peculiarities.
In the problematical little Hypiodus of the White River the inferior incisors canines and first two premolars form a continuous series of twelve subequal teeth.
Xiphodontherium has lost the first lower premolar and p has become caniniform.
In Rhagatherium P4 is molariform and has five cusps the anterior conule being present in addition to the four main elements.
P is exceptional in being like its predecessor in the milk dentition  438 1892. tlie paraconid is enlarged nearly to the size of the protoconid and on the inner side a conical cusp is added the tooth thus consisting of three pairs of cusps.
A similar p occurs in Dichodon.
Fig.
8.
Fourth upper and lower premolars of leftside.
1 Dicotyhs torquaius  2 Thinohy us lentils  Z Perchcerus probiis   Fantolestes brachystomus.
Letters as in the preceding figures.
Among the Suina the peccaries offer the most interesting series.
The White River and John Day forerunners of that group Perchoerus and Thinohyus have extremely simple premolars  P4 consists of protoand deuterocones only and in p the only addition is the low and broad metaconid.
In Dlcotyles the last premolars are nearly or quite like the molars.
In P4 the tritocone is first added and then the tetartocone the latter not always occurring even in the recent species.
In p the order of events is similar first the deuteroconid is added and then the tetartoconid the latter element and the metaconid being at the same time more or less elevated.
The curious Listriodon a true pig exhibits a similar condition  P4 has developed a tritocone equal in size to the protocone and 3 has a large deuterocone.
On the other hand p has added only the deuteroconid the talon consisting only of the metaconid.
It might seem at first sight that many artiodactyls presented an important divergence from the normal scheme of premolar evolution in the way in which the inner crescent of the anterior upper teeth is developed viz. by the coalescence of anterior and posterior ridges.
This is seen in Procamelus several of the Oreodonttdce in some specimens of Palceomenjx and other forms.
But on the other hand a careful comparison of the various series will show that the departure from the ordinary course of development is not so radical as it seems.
The posterior crest undoubtedly represents the deuterocone and the only difference therefore consists in the fact that the anterior horn of the inner crest is not developed from the deuterocone as in P4 but from the front margin of the protocone or from the cingulum.
X. AMBLYPODA.
The oldest representative of this group is the Puerco genus Pantolambda in which the premolars have already attained quite an advanced stage of differentiation.
Except in Pi the superior premolars consist of a crescentic and acute protocone which projects strongly toward the inner side of the tooth and a crescentic deuterocone.
Seen from the outside the last three inferior premolars seem to be simple compressed and trenchant cones with metaconids which become better marked as we pass from p to p.
But in reality p supports a complete anterior V and a broad transverse talon  the V is less developed on p and very obscurely indicated on p.
The superior premolars of Coryphodon show no advance upon those of Pantolambda.
The lowr premolars are in general like those of the Puerco genus but the species vary in the completeness with which the cusps are distinguished.
In ButJnnodon radians the protoconid is concave externally and shows a distinct cusp on its Older side.
In the Dinocerata the homologies of the cusps in both the molar and premolar series are exceedingly obscure owing not only to their own peculiarities which are very marked but also to the lack of any intermediate links by which to connect them with more typical forms of teeth.
It will therefore suffice to say that in this group with the exception of Bathyopsis the first premolar in both jaws has disappeared and that the remaining teeth in this series have assumed the molar pattern.
The crown is traversed by two ridges which meet internally and thus form a V which opens outwardly.
Strange to say this arrangement obtains in both upper and lower teeth the usual reversal of pattern not being found.
XI.
PROBOSCIDEA.
The phylogeny of the elephants is still an unsolved problem and we therefore know little as to the homologies of their molar cusps.
From several facts however we may infer that their molar teeth were derived from a quadritubercular form.
This condition is retained in the premolars of Mastodon upper and lower alike.
In Dinotherium the cusps have united to form a pair of transverse crests but a reminiscence of the tubercular stage is preserved in P3.
In this tooth the posterior crest is complete formed by the junction of the tritoand tetartocones but the anterior crest is unfinished the deuterocone remaining isolated from the protocone.
The foregoing brief survey of the steps of premolar development in those mammalian groups which enable us to follow it out shows very clearly that the premolars follow an order of differentiation quite at variance with that attributed to the molars even when the final results are the same.
It also shows that in the fourth upper premolar the order of succession in the appearance of the cusps is remarkably constant while in the other superior premolars and in all of the lower ones the order is very much less regular.
But even in these cases the homologies are clearly given by the position of the new elements with reference to the primary cusp or protocone.
Some of the Artiodactyla however e. g. Procamelus appear to depart altogether from the typical order in that the inner crescent of P2 or Pa  or both is formed not by the extension of a single element the deuterocone but by the coalesence of two.
Even in these cases however we found reason to believe that the departure from the normal was less radical than at first sight seemed to be true for the posterior element of the crest is with great probability to be homologized with the deuterocone.
Another result which follows from our survey of premolar development is the steadiness with which it is followed out when once undertaken.
The cusps do not apjear haphazard or in a tentative way but definitely may be traced from the faintest beginnings to the final result.
It is obvious further that the same result may be independently attained many times in widely separated groups and by precisely similar steps.
Nothing could be more eloquent of the danger of constructing phylogenies from the teeth alone.
Often it is true they would turn out to be right but not infrequently they would lead to the grossest error.
The Milk Dentition.
Palreontology is not fitted to throw very much light upon the relation of the milk molars to the permanent set i. e. Avith regard to the homologies of the cusps for it is exceedingly difficult to obtain phylogenetic series of the temporary dentition.
Some facts may however be gleaned which are not altogether devoid of value.
Thus the genesis of the third upper milk molar dj in the OreodontidcE.
shows that in that tooth at least the order of succession of the cusps is different from that which occurs in the premolars but on the other hand the homologies of these cusps as determined by their position is the same as in the premolars.
In Oreodon 3 consists of three cusps of which the anterior one is extended and trenchant and obviously corresponds to the protocone of the premolars  Iosterior to this are two smaller crescentic cusps the outer one of which is plainly the tritocone and the inner one the tetartocone.
In Merychyus this tooth is rendered molariform by the addition of the anterointernal crescent or deuterocone.
The order of succession of the cusps thus appears to be proto trito tetartoand deuterocones and is therefore different from that which is typical of the premolars though as we have already seen there are variations in the order of development in the different teeth of the premolar series.
For example in Hyracothermm P consists of the protoand tritocones only.
Some light is thrown upon the homologies of the elements of the characteristic sixlobed last lower milk molar of the artiodactyls by the curious and problematical little genus Nanohyus.
Not that this genus is of any phylogenetic significance for the artiodactyls and indeed its systematic position is quite uncertain  nevertheless it exhibits d in a very interesting and instructive stage.
This tooth is thus described by Leidy   Its crown presents the usual greater breadth than the succeeding pair of those of the teeth behind as in pachyderms.
The crown is trilobate externally and internally and this condition probably corresponds witli three constituent pairs of lobes the distinction of which is for the most part obliterated by wearing.
The median division of the crown is largest and that in advance is the smallest.
The abraded summit of the former presents an irregularly transverse quadrate surface of exposed dentine continuous with a smaller subreniform tract upon the anterior division.
The posterior division of the crown still exhibits the distinction of a transverse pair of lobes of which the outer one is much the larger.
In this tooth the homologies of the elements are obvious  the median pair of cusps are the protoand deuteroconids respectively and the posterior pair the metaand tetartoconids while the paraconid and a cusp as yet not named internal to it form the anterior pair.
In Nanohyus therefore d differs from the typical artiodactyl tooth merely in the relative development of the cusps which in the latter are all of nearly equal size.
This interpretation confirms Riitimeyer's view that cl in the artiodactyls represents a molar with a pair of cusps added to it in front and that the posterior pair do not correspond to the talon of m.
So far as they go therefore the facts of palaeontology indicate that in the milk teeth the homologies of the cusps agree with those of the premolars rather than those of the molars.
The foregoing paper had been nearly completed before I received the valuable and interesting articles of Taeker No.
12 and Rose No.
8 in which the problem of the homologies of the molar and premolar cusps is investigated from the embryological standpoint.
Taeker has confined his attention to the milk molars and finds that the homologies of the cusps in these teeth agree with those of the permanent premolars so far as these homologies are determined by position.
Taeker had not seen my notes on the premolars and attempts to horaologize the milk teeth cusps with those of the true molars but with the result that the paracone is always the first element to appear.
I have shown that this element is really the protocone and consequently the palpeontological and embryological results are in exact accord.
Further Taeker shows that the order of succession of the cusps in dj in the recent artiodactyls is the same as we have found it to be in the Oreodontidce viz.
 proto trito tetartoand deuterocones.
Again there is an exact correspondence in the results as to the characteristic d of the artiodactyls except that Taeker gives the name of paraconid to both of the anterior cusps.
Needless to say this cannot be correct though it is not worth while to coin a special term for the anterointernal cusjd.
Rose's investigation brings out the very unexpected fact that in their embryological development the true molars agree with the premolars and the milk teeth and that in them also the first element to appear is the anteroexternal cusp which in the upper molars has hitherto been considered the paracone but which Rose believes to be the protocone.
The evidence offered is not altogether conclusive and is open to a different explanation but should Rose's view prove to be correct it would follow that the molar and premolar cusps are really homologous after all and the nomenclature which I have proposed for the latter would be sujerfluous while the names now given to the molar cusps would necessarily be transposed.
Space fo.rbids however a consideration of this question here.
In one important respect Rose's views are altogether irreconcilable with the facts of paliBontology viz. in supposing that complex mammalian molars are formed by the coalescence of simple teeth.
The series of genera which appear in successive horizons and Avhich we may confidently assume to stand in ancestral rehttions to one another display the entire history of the complex premolars and show that new elements are formed by outgrowth from the old and not by coalescence.
Such a series as that of the horses for example is sufficient to demonstrate this unless we are prepared to assume that the apparent connection of the different members of the series is entirely illusory.
Summary.
1.
Assuming the correctness of Osborn's results as to the homologies of the molar cusps those of the premolars are differently arranged.
In the upper premolars the protocone forms the anteroexternal cusp.
2.
Additions to the protocone are typically made in the following order  a the anterointernal cusp  deuterocone  b posteroexternal cusp  tritocone  c posterointernal cusp  tetartocone.
3.
In the lower premolars the protoconid takes the same position as in the lower molars as does also the paraconid but the metaconid forms the external cusp of the talon.
The places of the metaand hypoconids of the molars are taken by two corresponding but not homologous elements the deuteroand tetartoconids respectively.
4.
While there is no reason to doubt the homologies of the premolar cusps throughout the series the order in which they make their appearance is by no means invariable especially in the anterior teeth.
5.
In certain selenodont artiodactyls e. g. Procamelus Oreodontidce the inner crescent of the anterior upper premolars is not formed entirely by the extension of the deuterocone but by the coalescence of two ridges one of which extends from the anterior and the other from the posterior margin of the crown.
6.
The homologies of the cusps in the milk molars agree with those of the premolar elements but appear to be even more irregular as to the order in which those cusps are developed.
Thus in dj in the artiodactyls the order is proto trito tetartoand deuteroeones.
D in the same group has a cusp internal to the paracone which seldom appears in other types.
7.
So far as the homologies of the cusps in the premolars and milk molars are concerned the results of paleontology agree exactly with those of embryology.
List of Papers Quoted.
1.
Cope E. D. The Origin of the Fittest.
New York 1887.
2.
Cope E. D. Tertiary Vertebrata.
Washington 1884.
3.
Dybowski B. Studien viber die Siiugethierzahne.
Verb.
d. k. k. Zool.botanisch.
Ges.
Wien 1889 p. .3.
4.
Fleischmann a.
Die Grundform der Backziihne bei Saugethieren.
Sitzungsberichte d. kon.
preuss.
Akad.
d. Wissenschaften zu Berlin 1891 p. 891.
5.
Mahn R. Bau und Entwicklung d. Molaren bei Mus und Arvicola.
Morphologisches Jahrbuch Bd.
XVI p. 652.
6.
Marsh O. C. A New Order of Extinct Eocene Mammalia.
Amer.
Journ.
of Sci.
and Arts 3rd Ser. Vol.
XLIII p. 445.
7.
OsBORN H. F. The Evolution of the Mammalian Molar to and ffom the Tritubercular Tyje. Amer.
Naturalist 1888 p. 1067.
8.
Rose G. Ueb.
d. Entstehung und Formabanderung d. menschlichen Molaren.
Anatom.
Anzeiger 1892 Nr.
13 and 14.
9.
RiJTiMEYER L. Beitr.
zu einer natiirl.
Gesch.
d. Hirsche.
Abb.
d. schweiz.
pal.
Gesellschaft Bd.
X.
10.
ScHLOSSER M. Die Affen Lemuren etc. d. Europ.
Tertiiirs.
11.
Scott W. B.
The Osteology of Poebrotherium.
Journ.
of Morphology Vol.
V p. 1.
12.
Taeker J. Zur Kenntniss d. Odontogenese bei Ungulaten.
Dorpat 1892.
13.
Thomas O.
On the Species of Hyracoidea.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1892 p. 50.
1892.
