THE SPIDER FAUNA OF THE UPPER CAYUGA LAKE BASIN.
BY NATHAN BANKS.
In the list given below are contained all the species of spiders known to occur in or near Ithaca.
The region examined has no exact limits.
It may best be defined as the Upper Cayuga Lake Basin.
It embraces the country drained by the streams which flow into the head of the Cayuga Lake.
The shores of the Lake have been examined only for a short distance on the west side for ten miles to Traghanic  on the east about four miles to Burdick's Glen.
A large share of the collecting has been done in the beds of the gorges and in the swamps.
Of these those most carefully examined are as follows of the gorges Fall Cascadilla Six Mile and Buttermilk Creek  of the swamps Inlet Marsh Beebe Island and South Hill Iardh.
Collecting in the other localities has not been so thorough.
The collecting began in the spring of 1888 and has lasted about two years.
From these facts it may be seen that the list is not at all complete.
The collecting has been done chiefly by myself although others have occasionally given me specimens.
To them I am deeply indebted both for the specimens and for the encouragement they have shown me.
Those who have especially aidedme are Mr. G. Van Ingen Mr. H. Hicks Mr. A. D. MacGillivray Mr. H. W. Norris and Mr. Brace.
To Prof. L. M. Underwood of Syracuse University I am under the deepest of obligations.
Were it not that he kindly lent me much literature on the subject this paper could not have been written.
To the Rev.
Dr. H. C. McCook of Philadelphia I wish to express my thanks for the work done upon the Epeiridre.
To J. H. Eraerton I am deeply indebted for much help in determining several species and to Prof. J. H. Corastock under whose direction the paper has been written for much kindly assistance and encouragement.
The country is very diversified low lands and high hills marshes creeks forming beautiful gorges bare rocky cliflfe and mudbottoms.
The climate is as varied as the country.
These facts with its flora and insect fauna account for the large number of spiders.
Diversity of country is of course more favorable to ground spiders than to webbuilding ones  so it will be noticed that the proportion is greater in the Lycosidje than in the Epeiridse when compared with the New England fauna.
Several bibliographies of American spiders are easily accessible.
The American Naturalist for November 1887 contains a quite complete one by Prof. Underwood.
Bulletin No.
19 of the U.S. Department of Agriculture also contains a list of the more important works.
Many of the early descriptions are worthless and may never be identified.
I have not thought Walckenaer's names worth using.
Some of Hentz's species will probably never be determined.
Some later writers have occasionally been careless in describing species.
The list here submitted will compare favorably with others as may be seen by the following   Cayuga Lake by Banks 1890 363 species Great Britian by Cambridge 1874 457 Sweden by AVestring 308 Italy 404  France by Simon 1874 about 1000  Austria by Doleschal 1867 205  Prussia by Ohlert 1867 188  Tyrol 1867 233  Vicinity of Prague by Prach 1866 119  Spiders of Tren by Canestrini 1875 243  Catalogue of Spiders of Switzerland by Pavesi 1875 285  Spiders of Westphalia by Karsch 1874 154  South Kussian Spiders by Thorell 1875 303 Emerton has published lists of the New England forms of seven families  they compare with the Ithaca ftiuna as follows   New England.
Ithaca.
Lycosidfe 33 species.
42 species.
Epeirida 51  43 Therididw 137  124 Ciniflonidre 16  14 Drassidfe 34  43 Agalenidse 11  17 DysderidiB 2  It will be seen from these comparisons that the vicinity of Ithaca is a very fertile locality for spiders.
Classification is only possible when many links are lost.
Among the spiders as they exist in this locality certain groups are quite definite while others are closely related.
The Lycosidse and Attida3 are distinct both from each other and from the other families.
The Thomisidfe aie also easily separated.
The Epeiridaj and Therididre can be separated yet Meta is almost as near to one as to the other.
But the Drassidse Agalenidie and Ciniflonidfe are very closely related to each other aud to the Thcrididse.
I have not thought the Ciniflonidse a group of sufficient distinctness to be recognized as a family.
The existence of a calainistrum and cribelluni in Hijpochilus thorelU shoAvs that this charac ter does not indicate close relationship.
And besides the Ciniflonide comprises two welldefined subfamilies one of which may be near the Epeiridse and the other is very close to the Agalenidoe.
So I have divided the Ciniflonidje and placed them in these two families.
Still it may sometimes be necessary to use artificial characters for a division.
I have separated the Drassidse and Agalenide according by the number of tarsal claws.
Some species which have been classed as Agalenide may by the division fall into the Drassidse yet the two families are so closely related that such forms will not mar to any great extent thesimiliarity of structure of the Drasside.
The Attidas appear to be very high if not the highest.
The Drassidse I think are the lowest.
The Epeiridse were probably developed from the Therididie the Therididse from the Agalenidfe and these from the Drassidte.
As I have not had access to several imjjortant European works the sequence of genera adopted is merely provisional and I have not felt at liberty to introduce changes in classification.
Not all the material obtained has been described  this is especially the case with certain young forms which have been left with the hope of getting the adult stage.
KEY TO FAMILIES.
1.
Lung slits four or two lung slits and two spiracles just behind them 2 Lung slits two the spiracles not just behind them  mandibles articulated vertically 4 2.
Eyes eight ' 3 Eyes six Dysderid 3.
With extra spinning organs Hypociiilid.e.
Without extra spinning organs Mygalide.
4.
Eyes equal or subequal in two roAvs 6 Eyes eight unequal in three or four rows 5 5.
Eyes in three or four I'ows  if three rows two middle of first row largest second row smallest  if four rows first row largest third row smallest Attid.
Eyes in three or four rows first row of four or two small eyes second or third row of large eyes Lycosid.
7 8 Thomisid.t.
Drasside.
Agalenid.
Epeiridjt.
Theridid.
6.
Tarsi with two claws no web Tarsi with three claws usually a web 7.
Second pair of legs as long or longer than the fourth all e3es diurnal Second pair of legs not so long as fourth only anterior M. E. diurnal 8.
Hind spinnerets longer than othersand of two joints'  or else extra spinning organs and anterior eyes equal and the front S. E. colorless Hind spinnerets of but one joint  when extra spinning organs are present then front S. E. are smaller than front M. E. and dark in color 9.
Inner angle of maxille rounded else with extra spinning oi'gans with an orb web Inner angle of maxillse not rounded with an irregular web DRASSIDJE.
Micaria longipes Em.
Rare.
Heustis St. and Fall Creek Aug. Micaria formicoides nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
51.
Total length.
Length of cephalothorax 2 m m. Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Cephalothorax dark yellowbrown with a large Vshaped mark at end of cephalic portion  behind this the thoracic part is veined with golden metallic scales.
Cephalic part darker near eyes covered with iridescent scales  hair brownish.
Mandibles yellowredbrown lighter at apex  basal joints of palpi similar distal joints light yellow  mouth parts and sternum redbrown with scattered long white hairs.
Coxa3 light yellowbrown hind ones lightest  trochanter similar but with a dark stripe before and behind.
Femora I and II yellowbrown darkest at base other joints light yellow with scattered white hairs and many brown scalelike spines.
Coxae III and IV with a patch of white scales above  femora redbrown other joints lighter.
Femur III with three stripes of white scales one above one in front and one behind  femur IV with one white stripe above  patella and tibia III and IV Avith a white stripe of scales above.
Abdomen dark covered with iridescent scales above and below  near base a broadly interrupted band of white This point is difficult to see in Cybceus
9 4'9mm.
2 mm.
breadth 1 ram.
29 mm.
breadth I'omm.
l05ram. '
breadth 7mm.
12 mm.
tibia I 1mm.
17 mm.
tibia IV l3mm.
behind this the scales are somewhat golden or dark brown according to the light.
Near the middle of the abdomen there is on each side a patch of white behind this the scales are darkbrown or golden according to the light.
The apical third of abdomen is black or nearly colorless according to the light.
Sides are golden or brown with a w'hite oblique band at constriction of abdomen.
Venter with bright colored scales in certain light the basal ones are reddishpurple the apical ones golden.
Hairs long dark scattered.
Epigynum reddish spinnerets dark redbrown.
Cephalothorax highest in middle  sternum sharppointed behind rounded in front wndest at second coxje.
Abdomen with a deep transverse furrow somewhat in front of middle and which does not intersect the upper side margin  a slight constriction in the sides at the same points  epigynum as figured.
Rare.
14th Sept. Fall Creek on Solidago with reddish ants of same size which it greatly resembles.
Thargalia agilis nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
52 and 52a.
Total length 9 94mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3'6mm.
breadth 25mm.
Length of abdomen 6' mm.
breadth 3'6mm Length of sternum l9mm.
breadth l3mm.
Length of femur I 27mm.
tibia I 2mm.
Length of femur IV 3mm.
tibia IV 27mm.
Cephalothorax jet black with a few white plumose hairs mandibles dark reddishbrowni  sternum brownishblack  labium and maxillse reddishbrown whitish at tips  palpi reddishbrown  all coxae reddishbrown  all femora darker brown  other joints of first and second pairs of legs light yellowbrown  other joints of hind two pairs as dark as the femora except the tarsi which are lighter.
Abdomen black shining with scattered whitish plumose hairs more reddish beneath with hairs more numerous and less plumose  spinnerets dark.
Cephalothorax not much higher in middle than in front  rounded in front and behind  upper row of eyes procurved  lower row nearly straight  INI.
E. of upper row nearer S. E. than each other  same with lower M. E.  quadrangle of M. E. higher than broad  maxillie convex  labium  length of maxillje  epigynum as figured  no spine on front side of fourth hind patellse.
Not uncommon.
Six Mile Creek.
Thargalia perplexa nov. fp.
Plate I figs.
53 53a and 53b.
Total length 9 8mm.
Length of cephalothorax 33mm.
breadth 23mm.
Length of abdomen 46mm.
breadtli 29nnii.
Length of sternum l8mm.
breadth r2uim.
Length of femur I 2'lnimtibia I I'Smm.
Length of femur IV 3 mm.
tibia IV 24mm.
Cephalothorax uniform reddishbrown with a few scattered white plumose bail's  mandibles more reddish  mouth parts light reddishbrown whitish at tips sternum similar to mandibles  coxaj yellowbrown first pair darkest  palpi brown at base yellowish towards apex  all femora redbrown those of III and IV with some whitish hairs other joints of I and II light the tibia a little greenish tarsus a little brownish  tibiiB and patellae III and IV similar to femora tibia a little lighter at extreme tip  metatarsus darker  tarsus lighter.
Abdomen redbrown with many plumose hairs usually black but two spots and a band at base white also some white scattered over middle of dorsum and an apical band white venter redbrown with black hairs not plumose  spinnerets redbrown  epigynum reddish.
Upper row of eyes procurved equal in size and at equal distances  lower row almost straight shorter than upper M. E. nearer S. E. than to each other  the four M. E. make a quadrangle wider behind than in front and much higher than wide.
Hind legs very long.
Male similar in color much smaller 6mm.
long  the abdomen narrower than the cephalothorax  epigynum and palpal organ as figured.
Uncommon.
Thargalia fallax now sp.
Plate I fig.
5i.
Total length  Length of cephalothorax 3 mm.
Length of abdomen 4 mm.
Length of sternum r2ram.
Length of fumur I 2 mm.
Length of femur IV 3 mm.
Color of cephalothorax a uniform dark redbrown with a few plumose yellowish hairs  mandibles and palpi same color mouthparts redbrown the tips whitish  sternum black Avith yellowbrown hairs  coxje redbrown first pair darkest  femora nearly black with black hairs other joints of land II reddishyellow other joints of III and IV redbrown.
Abdomen above nearly black at base growing more red beyond till near apex it is quite bright red with some yellow plumose hairs sides black venter 7'2mm breadth 23mm breadth 2' mm breadth r mm tibia I l8mm tibia IV 27mm redbrown with black hairs  spinnerets redbrown.
Ees as in T. perplexa venter with a large median quadrangular sunken space  palpi as figured.
Two specimens in field below University.
Thargalia bivittata Em.
Frequent in Six Mile Creek often among ants which it resembles Sept. Thargalia crocata Hentz.
Rare one specimen in field near the University barn.
Prosthesima rufula nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
bb and 55a.
Total length 9 59mm.
Length of cephalothorax 245mtu.
breadth rTmm.
Length of abdomen 35 mm.
breadth 2 mm.
A larger 9 total length 7 mm.
length of cephalo.
2'5mm.
Cephalothorax nearly uniform reddish the marginal seam blackish  mandibles similar sternum more yellow in center and redbrown on sides  lip red  maxillse yellowish  legs redbrownish yellow  epigynum red  under spinnerets light upper ones nearly black abdomen above and below blueblack or blackish  venter with two narrow converging white lines.
Upper row of eyes scarcely longer than lower and a little procurved  the upper M. E. large and oblique  a little black around the lower M. E. Head much narrowed  body and legs covered with black hairs  lower spinnerets the longest.
The cocoon of this species is attached to the under side of stones it consists of two circular sheets of silk between which are placed the eggs.
The outer sheet is often covered with dirt or mud so as to resemble the stone.
Frequent.
Sept. Oct. Fall Creek South Hill Heustis St. Prosthesima frigida nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
56 56a.
Total length 9 4Gmm.
Length of cephalothorax l'9mm.
breadth r8mm.
Length of abdomen 27mra.
breadth l5mm.
Male about the same size.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow  seam black  mandibles similar  a little black around eyes  a small Vshaped blackish mark just in front of dorsal groove  basal joints of legs and palpi very light nearly white  distal joints redder  sternum yellowish darker on sides epigynum reddish surrounded by black  lower spinnerets lighter than upper  abdomen above and below blackish  ventral lines nearly parallel  body covered with black hairs.
Epigyuum and palpal organs as figured  eyes as in P. rufula cephalothorax widest behind the middle head much narrowed.
Several specimens under a stone near Fall Creek Feb. Prosthesima immaculata nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
58 and 58a.
Total length  ylnim.
Length of cephalothorax 2omm.
breadth 28nim.
Length of abdomen 3'8mm.
breadth 22mm.
Cephalothorax and mandibles brownishyellow  legs and palpipaler  sternum yellow darker on edges epigynum reddish surrounded by gray  lower spinnerets longer and lighter colored than upper ones  abdomen above and below dark gray  ventral lines wanting body and legs with blackish hairs  a few white hairs on abdomen.
Upper side of Coxpe with many bristles  eyes as usual .
a little black in lower row  epigynum as figured.
Rare.
Sept. Fall Creek.
.
Prosthesima blanda nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
57 and 57a .
Total length  l' mm..
Length of cephalothorax onim.
breadth 2'lmm.
Length of abdomen 4nim.
breadth 2 mm.
Cephalothorax browniishyellow  mandibles darker sternum red brownishyellow  lip very dark and maxilhe lighter  legs and palpi pale yellowish brighter toward the tips abdomen white above and below  spinnerets similar  lung plates yellow  two ventral  lines grayish  a yellowish spot at base of dorsum  base of abdomen densely clothed with stiff bristles  body and legs with black hairs  upper row of eyes straight no longer than lower  palpal organ as figured.
One specimen.
Prosthesima atra Ilentz.
A few specimens which probably belong to this species from Fall Creek.
Prosthesima depressa Em.
Not uncommon.
Fall Creek Six Mile Creek Oct. Prosthesima ecclesiastica Hentz.
Frequent  often under bark in winter.
Prosthesima minima nov. sp.
Plate lY fig.
69.
Length 9 28miii.
Ceplialothorax dull yellowishbrown  legs pale a little tinge of greenish and brownish  eyes with black rings  sternum nearly white a little brownish edge with stiff black hairs.
Abdomen above and below pure white with black hairs which arise from piukisli dots  epigynnra reddish  spinnerets white and projecting beyond end of abdomen.
Cephalothorax widest behind the middle narrow in front  abdomen truncate at base rounded behind  epigynum small as seen in figure.
One specimen under a stone in Six Mile Creek March 19.
Poecilochroa montana Em.
One specimen 24 March.
Buttermilk Creek.
The cephalothorax nearly black as are the femora of the legs  the rest of the legs a much lighter brown.
Received from Mr. MacGillivray.
Poecilochroa bilineata Hentz.
Uncommon  under stones in Fall Creek.
Gnaphosa brumalis Thor.
Not common.
Gnaphosa conspersa Thor.
Common under stones.
Gnaphosa humilis nov. sp.
Plate T fig.
59.
Total length 9 lo mm.
Length of cephalothorax 52mn.
breadth 3'9mm.
Length of abdomen 78mm.
breadth 4'7mm.
Length of sternum 26mm.
breadth 2lmm.
Cephalothorax reddish brown with long black hair and short pubescence mandibles darker sternum lighter legs like sternum  abdomen colored as usual.
Cephalothorax longer than tibia and patella IV  two spines at apex of tibipe 1 and II on under side one or two on tibia II near the middle  epigynum as figured.
This may be the G. seudderi Thor.
which Emerton considers identical with G. brumalis Thor.
I think my specimens are distinct from this latter species.
Infrequent Drassus saccatus Em.
Frequent under stones.
Soutli Hill Six Mile Creek Sept. Oct. Drassus humilis nov. sp.
Plate I figs.
60 and 60a.
Total length 9 89mm.
Length of cephalotliorax Synini.
breadth 2'7nim.
Langth of abdomen 5' mm.
breadth 25mm.
Cephalothorax and mandibles brownish yellow  seam black  a little black around the eyes  sternum brownishyellow in center darker on sides  lip darker masillie yellowbrown epigyuura reddish surrounded by yellow venter light grayish with black hairs spinnerets yellowish  legs pale yellowish  dorsum dark gray with several lighter chevrons and two spots near base these are most distinct when wet dorsum with black hairs epigynum as figured upper row of eyes procurved and longer than lower row which is straight  abdomen very low and flat broadest at middle pointed behind  legs moderately long and slender.
Frequent under stones.
South Hill.
Aug. Clubiona obesa Hentz.
Plate I fig.
61.
Length 9 9mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3mm.
breadth 2mm.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish  mandibles darker yellowbrown  legs white sternum pale with four dark spots on the sides one at the base of each of the four hind coxee  abdomen pale pinkish darkest above and with a darker median strije which reaches to the middle of the abdomen  spinnerets white  epigynum as figured.
One specimen.
Clubiona tibialis Em.
Plate T fig.
62.
Large 9  total length 77mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3'2mm.
breadth 2lmm.
Length of abdomen 45mm.
bi'eadlh 2.1mm.
Small 9 i rlmra.
long cephalothorax 3ram.
long.
Very similar to Avhat I have called the female of C. crassipalpis Em.
The cephalothorax yellowbrown black in eyeregion and on clypens  mandibles and mouthparts black  sternum yellowish with reddish spots on sides legs like sternum venter similar dorsum of abdomen more redbrown lighter at base.
Epigynum very broad as in figure  clypeus very low  mandibles very much projecting in front of cephalothorax  eyeregion broad and low body with white hairs  legs with both white and black hairs.
Two specimens from Inlet Larsh Aug.
The cocoon consists of two sheets of silk connecting the edges of a blade of a large grass.
The eggs are placed in an inner case between the two sheets of silk.
The mother watches the cocoon.
Clubiona crassipalpis Keys.
Plate I fig.
63.
One specimen which I have thought may be the female of this species.
Clubiona canadensis Em.
Common often under bark.
Clubiona pygmea nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
64.
Total length 9 32mm.
Length of cephalothorax r4mm.
breadth T mm.
Length of abdomen rSmm.
breadth r2mm.
Similar in appearance to C. rubra Keys.
Head a little darker than in that species  eyerows not so long and eyes a little smaller  dorsum of abdomen with same spearshaped mark and beyond this reddish  rest white  legs and sternum and venter paler whitish sternum darkedged spinnerets darker than venter abdomen a little narrower than C. rubra  epigynum quite different from that species as seen in figure  black bristles at base of abdomen not so prominent as in C. rubra.
One specimen under bark.
Nov. Fall Creek.
Clubiona rubra Keys.
One specimen.
Fall Creek.
Febr.
Clubiona abbotti Koch.
Plate I figs.
65 and 65a.
This siecies is very close to C rubra Keys.
The epigynum is about the same shape the cavities are quite distinct more so than in my specimen of C. rubra  the  palpi are also similar to that species.
The coloring is the same except the cephalothorax is a little darker and the mandibles sometimes nearly black  abdomen in one specimen wholly gray but usually with the red basal stripe and the red tip to abdomen.
The smallest i
is 4 mm long  the smallest 9 is almost 5 mm.
 others are larger.
The femur of the  palpus has two spines near the tip as seen in figure.
Frequent.
Fall Creek Inlet Marsh.
Clubiona lenta nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
66.
Total length 9 4mm.
Length of cephalothorax l3mm.
breadth 9'5mm.
Length of abdomen 2'7mm.
bi'eadth l5mm.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow darkest in front mandibles similar but darker legs and palpi whitishyellow sternum and maxillse similar former witli redbrown edges and joints lip darker  abdomen brownishdrab with a very faint trace of a redder median basal stripe on dorsum  color made up of darker and lighter spots spinnerets yellow epigynum reddish two distinct cavities close together  eyes occupying almost the whole of the front of the cephalothorax  legs Avith black spines and fine black hairs abdomen with white hairs bristles at base of abdomen not prominent.
One specimen Fall Creek Sept. Clubiona americana Em.
This is the C ornata Em.
1890 which is preoccupied by Thorell in 1875.
Common often under bark in cases.
Clubiona excepta Koch.
Frequent Primrose Cliffs Beebe Island.
Trachelas tranquilla Hentz ruber Keys.
Clubiona tranquilla Hentz.
Not uncommon Cascadilla Creek Six Mile Creek.
Anyphsena incerta Keys.
Uncommon Indian Spring Buttermilk Creek Fall Creek Nov. Feb. iVIarch.
Anyphsena saltabunda Hentz.
Uncommon Six 3Iile Creek Enfield Creek Sejt Phrurolithus minutus nov. sp.
Plate I figs.
67 67a and 67b.
Total length 9 21 mm.
Length of cephalothorax 95mm.
breadth 95mm.
Length of abdomen 125mm.
breadth '1 mm.
Cephalothorax bright yellow with a black stripe each side which meet behind and in front through the eyeregion  extreme margin also black  abdomen yellowish white with black chevrons sternum and venter yellowish white legs yellowish the first tibia and jjatella black  epigynum reddish  cephalothorax as broad as long very low abdomen long the two cavities of the epigynum are close together at base and diverge so that they are much separated behind while in P. pugaatus they are closer together at the caudal part than at cephalic.
Occasional.
Fall Creek Buttermilk Creek Sept. Phrarolithus pugnatus Era.
Frequent under stones.
Fall Creek.
Phrurolithus palustris nov sp.
Plate I fig.
70.
Total length 
2528mm.
Cephalothorax yellowish with dark stripe each side connected behind  margin black  eyes on black  sternum and legs similar to cephalthorax first tibia and patella a little darker abdomen with blackish gray markings spots on base of dorsum sometimes run together and behind these chevrons interrupted or subinterrupted on sides  venter with a few dark spots near spinnerets and two in front of these epigynum reddish as figured  cephalthorax broad.
Two specimens Indian Spring.
Phrurolithus alarius Hentz.
Frequent under stones.
Agroeca pratensis Em.
Common in autumn and winter under leaves.
Agroeca ornata nov. sp.
Plate I figs.
68 and 68a.
Total length 9 46mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2 mm.
breadth l'7mm.
Length of abdomen 26mm.
breadth l'4mm.
Cephalothorax light yellowish with faint blackish lines radiating from the dorsal groove 'hem black  mandibles palpi mouthparts sternum and legs all light yellowish the sternum a little brownish on sides.
Abdomen light yellowbrown on hinder part of dorsum two rows of short transverse brown spots sides with some brown spots and short stripes venter immaculate epigynum reddish spinnerets light eyes surrounded by black a faint lightbrown median stripe on basal part of dorsum.
Rare.
Buttermilk Creek.
AGALENIDiE.
Agaleninse.
Cybaeus giganteus nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
71.
Plate V fig.
71.
Total length 9 ll5mm.
Length of cephalothorax 5mm.
breadth 34mm.
Lenth of abdomen 7mm.
breadth 4'9mm.
Cephalothorax dark redbrown shining mandibles similar legs and palpi a little lighter  under side of coxte yellowbrown  sternum yellowbrown in center darker and reddishbrown on sides  mouthparts reddishbrown with tips lighter  venter gray  lungjilates lighter epigynum reddish spinnerets yellowish dorsum and sides dark grayishblack with a short median basal light stripe not reaching to the middle of the dorsum and each side of this two oblique light spots.
Abdomen covered with short black hairs.
Upper row of eyes nearly straight lower recurved so that the S. E. are closer together than the M. E.  mandibles strongly convex and projecting in front of head  head high and arched  median groove short  from it radiate several grooves to the sides which at the bottom are a little darker than the surrounding space lip more than half length of maxillse truncate at tip sternum broad in front pointed behind between hind coxse legs moderately long with many not very long appressed bristly black hairs and longer black spines four pairs of spines on under side of tibia I and II  three pairs on under side of tibia III and IV  abdomen large and thick  widest a little beyond the middle  epigynum as figured hinder spinnerets not longer than front ones and furnished with tubules only at the tip.
One specimen.
Coelotes medicinalis Hentz.
Not common.
Coelotes fidelis nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
72.
Plate V fig.
72.
Total length 9 lO'Omm.
Length of cephalothorax 4'9mm.
breadth 3'2mm.
Length of abdomen 6 mm.
breadth 39mm.
Total length  8 mm.
Very similar to C. lamellosus Keys.
Cephalothorax yellowbrown with radiating lines  head darker  mandibles redbrown  mouthparts redbrown sometimes lighter at tips sternum legs and palpi yellow sternum with dark edges legs with indistinct dark rings on femora  abdomen nearly white with many dark spots and lines most numerous on dorsum not so numerous however as in C. longitarsus and C. all'dls  mandibles not so much projecting as in those species epigynum and palpal organs as figured.
Many specimens all very constant in shape of the epigynum which is quite different from C. lamellosv.s.
Common in woods.
Coelotes longitarsus Em.
Plate lY fig.
73.
The  agrees with Emerton's description and figures.
What I take to be 9 is different from his 9 .
Not uncommon under leaves in autumn and winter.
9 8 mm.
385mm.
breadth 21 mm.
42 mm.
breadth 25mm.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen The coloring is similar to the S  the epigynum as figured.
Coelotes altilis nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
74.
Plate IV fig.
74a.
Total length 9 132mm.
Length of cephalothorax 6 mm.
breadth 3'5mm.
Len2th of abdomen 72mm.
breadth 4'9mm Cephalothorax yellowbrown  head darker reddishbrown  mandibles similar  cephalothorax with a few radiating darker stripes  mouthparts redbrown light at tips  sternum yellowbrown darker on edges  under side of coxse and femora light yellowbrown rest of legs and palpi brighter yellowbrown distal joints darkest epigynum reddish  spinnerets yellowish abdomen light gray thickly covered above and on the sides with dark spots and a few scattered spots on venter on median line of dorsum the dark so arranged as to leave several white chevrons  abdomen with short black hair differs from C. montanus in shape of epigynum.
Frequent in autumn and winter under leaves.
Coelotes lineatus nov. sp.
Total length  juv.
8'5mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3'8mm.
breadth 2 mm.
Length of abdomen 4'8mm.
breadth 2'8mm.
One specimen of this carious species which is a young male in the next to last moult.
Cephalothorax yellow with white stripe on each side and extreme margin black  the radiating bands on cephalothorax as usual  the front row of eyes and S. E. of second row on a black band  each upper M. E. surrounded by a black ring  cephalothorax covered with scattered fine black hairs  on the head are five lines of black bristles two on each side one arising from the upper S. E. and one from the upper M. E. these run caudad and soon disappear  another arising between the lower M. E. and passing above between the upper M. E. and then runs caudad to the dorsal groove this is very distinct  mandibles dark yellow brown  mouthparts and sternum yellowish latter darker on edges both with long black hairs  legs yellowish with darker rings on femora  legs with long black hairs sometimes becoming bristles  the arrangement of these is very peculiar.
A linear space on under side of coxffi is barren of hairs  two linear spaces on upper side of femora and patellse are also bare  between them the hairs are long 3 and bristly  on hinder side of femora another barren stripe  near tip of femora are some short dark lines not of hairs in one of them is a very large and long spine the joints beyond show less trace of lines and are densely covered with long black hairs which give the apjiearance of being very black in color  abdomen whitish with scattered dark spots very indistinct on venter  head long and narrow and very distinct from the cephalothorax.
One specimen Summit Marsh Aug. Coelotus gnavus nov. sp.
Total length 9 69mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3mm.
breadth 2' mm.
Length of abdomen 4mm.
breadth 22mm.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow with a black marginal seam  mandibles similar  legs same but lighter  sternum darker  abdomen almost wholly covered with black leaving only numerous small white spots  spinnerets yellowbrown  epigynum reddish  surrounded by black  lung plates white epigynum with a simple oval opening behind.
This may be what Emerton has called the 9 of C. longitarsiis.
One specimen.
Tegenaria derhami Seop.
Frequent in houses.
Cicurina complicata Em.
One specimen female.
 Cicurina arcuata Keys.
Common under leaves in autumn and winter.
Cicurina pallida Keys.
Not uncommon under leaves in winter.
Six Mile Creek Fall Creek.
Cicurina creber nov. sp.
Plate I figs.
T6 76a and 76b.
Total length 9 and  Length of cephalothorax 1.4mm.
Length of abdomen l9mm.
Size varies some larger and some smaller.
Cephalothorax pale yellowbrown scarcely darker on head  eyes surrounded by a little black  mandibles a little darker yellowbrown  legs and palpi light yellowbrown distal joints brightest  sternum yellowish  mouthparts darker  venter whitish with faint traces of darker spots  spinnerets white surrounded at base by blackish  epigynum red and 33mm.
breadth 1 mm.
breadth l2mm.
very prominent  abdomen grayishwhite with a more or less distinct medium dark stripe on basal part of dorsum not reaching to the middle of abdomen  behind this several pairs of dark spots sometimes indistinct or wanting  abdomen covered with white hairs legs with both white and black hairs and redbrown spines sternum with black hairs.
Abundant under leaves in autumn and winter.
Cicurinaplacida nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
77.
Total length 9 5mm.
Very similar to C. ereber  color and markings the same  sometimes the abdomen has a spot each side of the basal stripe.
Differs from C. ereber chiefly in size and in the shape of the epigAnum which is not as prominent as in that species.
Cephalothorax sometimes redder than in that species.
Not uncommon under leaves with the other species.
Coy Glen Buttermilk Creek Fall Creek.
Hahnia radula Em.
One specimen.
Hahnia b'.maculata Em.
Frequent under leaves in winter.
Fall Creek Cascadilla Creek Six Mile Creek.
Hahnia cinerea Em.
Uncommon under leaves as the other species.
Fall Creek Buttermilk Creek.
Agalena naevia Bosc.
Abundant and extremely variable.
Amaurobinse.
Dictyna volucripes Keys.
Frequent in grass all summer  often with young.
Dictyna sublata Hentz D. mururia Em.
Common in summer on grass.
Dictyna longispina Em.
Kot uncommon  summer in grass.
Dictyna minuta Em.
Not uncommon  summer in fields.
Dictyna cruciata Em.

One specimen probably this species.
Dictyna foxii Marx.l Plate I figs.
78 and 7Sa.
Total length 9 2mm.
Cephalothorax pale yellowbrown  darkest in front  mandibles similar eyes surrounded by black  front M. E. very small legs yellowish growing brighter from behind forward  sternum a little yellowish  abdomen white with a short median spot on front of dorsum black and behind this several black bands somewhat in the form of chevrons fainter spots on the sides  spinnerets more or less surrounded by black.
Two specimens Oct. Fall Creek.
Dictyna volupis Keys.
Abundant in grass in summer under bark in winter.
Dictyna frondea Em.
One specimen.
South Hill.
Dictyna maxima nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
79.
Plats IV fig.
79a.
Total length 9 43mm.
Length of cephalothorax l5mm.
Abdomen swollen with eggs.
Cephalothorax almost black shining only a little space behind eyes lighter and yellowish  mandibles black  palpi and legs white  sternum and lip dark redbrown maxillfe lighter  abdomen lightgrayish with many small irregular silvery spots on sides and dorsum  these leave the appearance of network of gray  in these sjots are many small gray dots  along each upper side several rusty brown spots the basal ones largest apical ones smallest sometimes these are partially connected  venter with a median redbrown striie  spinnerets reddish  epigynum as in figure.
One specimen.
Dictyna decorata nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
81.
Plate IV fig.
81.
Total length 9 2529mm.
Cephalothorax dark redbrown  head and clyjeus yellowishred  mandibles reddish to yellowishbrown sternum yellow maxillte similar  lip darker  legs white to yellowish  abdomen whitish  venter with a few reddish spots sometimes in form of a central stripe  dorsum on each side with a redbrown or nearly black This is Prodalia foxii Marx.
Proc.
Ent.
Soc.
Wash. 1891. stripe sometimes partially divided into spots  these stripes connected at apical end by a broad irregular band of same color  sometimes a few small spots in the enclosed space.
Prolongations of the markings often extend down on the sides of the abdomen especially posteriorly  spinnerets light  the abdomen is somewhat longer and narrower than usual  abdomen above with many blackish hairs.
Several specimens.
April under bark and in summer.
Dictyna dubia.
nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
82a.
Total length 
27mni.
Cephalothorax dark redbrown head and clypeus yellowishred mandibles yellowbrown  legs and palpi whitish  sternum and lip yellowbrown maxillie lighter  venter yellowish  dorsum grayish covered with yellow spots leaving a gray network little dots of gray in the yellow spots  each side of dorsum an indistinct stripe of rusty brown most distinct near base abdomen elliptical well rounded.
One specimen.
Amaurobius silvestris Em.
Common under stones.
Titanoeca americana Em.
Frequent under stones Fall Creek Enfield Creek.
Neophanes Marx.
General structure of Dictyna  eyes six in two groups three each side  calamistrum and cribellum present in both sexes  lip triangular small species.
Neophanes pallidus Marx.
Plate III figs.
86 86a and 87.
Length 9 and  I'lmm.
Cephalothorax yellowbrown with a few blackish marks  the eyes on two black patches one each side mandibles more yellow than cephalothorax  legs yellowish basal part of hind pair more white  sternum white a little tinge of yellow  lip mure yellow  abdomen nearly white a little grayish.
Structure very peculiar eyes six in two groups calamistrum and cribellum distinct in both sexes  lip long triangular a tooth each side of base  spinnerets six separated  tubules only on adjacent surfaces of under pair palpi and epigynum as figured  one specimen a little smaller with a gieenish abdomen does not seem different.
Found under stones or leaves in holes in the ground often an inch from the surface.
Not uncommon in Buttermilk Creek Fall Creek Six Mile Creek.
Two female specimens agree closely with these typical specimens except that the sternum is extremely narrow and the lip broad at tip as seen in fig.
87.
It may be a new species but the epigynum is the same.
THERIDID.
Theridinse.
Theridium tepidariorum Koch.
Abundant in houses and about buildings  occasionally found on cliffs in gorges.
Theridium rupicola Em.
Not uncommon under stones Six Mile Creek Dec. Theridium kentuckyense Keys One female  similar to the male but a little larger  epigynum as on Plate V fig.
43.
Theridium differens Em.
Not uncommon in evergreen trees.
Theridium spiralis Hentz.
More common than the preceding  in evergreen trees and elsewhere.
Theridium murarium Em.
Not uncommon Six Mile Creek  evergreen trees.
Theridium punctissparsum Keys.
Uncommon Fall and Cascadilla Creeks Dec Feb. Theridium frondeum Hentz.
Very common in summer.
Mimetus interfector Hentz.
Infrequent Fall Creek Six Mile Creek Freeville Aug. Sept. Mimetus epeiroides Em.
One young specimen probably this species.
Buttermilk Creek Aug. Ero thoracica Reuss.
One specimen Inlet Marsh March.
Steatoda borealis Hentz.
Common often about buildings.
Steatoda marmorata Hentz Not uncommon in gorge.
Steatoda guttata Reuss.
Uncommon Primrose Cliff Inlet Marsh  Nov. Dec. Steatoda triangulosa Walck.
Two specimens.
Dipoena nigra Em.
Steatoda nigra Em.
Not uncommon Fall Creek Six Mile Creek.
Argyrodes trigonum Hentz.
Not uncommon in Linyphia webs in gorges.
Euryopsis funebris Hentz.
One specimen on campus.
Pholcomma hirsuta Em.
Not uncommon Buttermilk and Fall Creeks during autumn and winter.
Erigoninse.
Ceratinella fissiceps Cambr.
Not uncommon in grass in spring and summer.
Ceratinella similis nov. sp.
Plate V figs.
61 61a and 61b.
Total length 9 and S l4mm.
Male sometimes a little smaller than female.
Cephalothorax orange  eye region black  legs light yellowbrown  mandibles and sternum orange  abdomen whitish with a slight grayishyellow tinge  epigynum and spinnerets dark or black   palpi with tarsus black  hard spot on male dorsum orange  muscular impressions of female orange and hard no hard spot on dorsum  hard spot at base of venter and a little spot in front of spinnerets  head of male elevated and projecting cephala but not humped  head of female normal.
Frequent Six Mile Creek South Hill Sept. Nov. Apr.
Ceratinella minuta Em.
Plate 11 fig.
60.
Plate IV fig.
60.
Not uncommon Fall Creek Aug. Ceratinella bulbosa Em.
Plate V fig.
59 59a.
The female is about the same size as the male it has no hard spot on dorsum  the abdomen in most of my specimens is dark gray much darker than in C. fissiceps.
Not uncommon.
Round Marshes Fall Creek near Varna  upper part of Six Mile Creek  Oct. March Apr.
Ceratinella pygmea Em.
Plate II tig.
57.
The female is about the same size and color as the male with a hard spot on dorsum.
One male and one female Fall Creek and Buttermilk Creek Oct. Nov. Ceratinella atriceps Cambr.
Rare Fall Creek Inlet Marsh.
Feb. March.
Ceratinella nioesta no v. sji.
Plate IT fig.
o.
Plate X fig.
58.
Total length S To mm.
Length of cephalothorax 'Tmm.
breadth oSram.
Length of abdomen Smm.
breadth 6 mm.
Cephalothorax very dark and brown  legs orange a little brownish towards the tips sternum redbrow'u hard spot on dorsum dark orange  rest of dorsum dark gray  venter still darker  head very high  hard spot on dorsum not very large elliptical distinct spinnerets dark.
One specimen.
South Hill beyond Buttermilk Creek Nov. Ceratinella laetabilis Cambr.
Rare Cascadilla Creek Fall Creek near Varna Febr.
March.
Ceratinella brunnea Em.
Uncommon Cascadilla Creek Fall Creek Aug. Feb. March.
Ceratinella micropalpis Em.
Rare Six Mile Creek Nov. Ceratinella placida nov. sp.
Plate II figs.
54 54a.
Total length  l25mm.
Length of cephalothorax 'OSmm.
breadth 45mm.
Length of abdomen '8 mm.
breadth 
mm.
Cephalothorax light greenishbrown legs nearly white palpi greenish  sternum greenishgray spinnerets and a spot in front of them white  hard spots on dorsum indistinct a little tinge of orange  the basal one yellowish  abdomen dark gray with a greenish tinge  head of male slightly elevated not humped but somewhat projecting anteriorly  dorsal hard spot large covering nearly all the dorsum.
A female from Cascadilla Creek has a darker abdomen and the hard spot is brighter than in male  sternum is darker on sides  cephalothorax is more yellow as is also the legs  the hard spot has no distinct limits.
Uncommon Cascadilla Creek Burdick's Glen  Sept. Feb. Ceratinella formosa nov. sp Plate II figs.
55 and 55a.
Total length 9 lSmm.
Cephalothorax dark yellowbroAvn  darkest at cephalic end  legs pale brownishyellow sternum dark abdomeu nearly black except the upper part of the base which is covered by a hard spot extending only a little way on the dorsum  this is a bright orangered color  head not elevated  ou apex of dorsum a few faint narrow chevrons of white  the four muscular impressions are about over the middle of the abdomen the hind pair not much farther apart than are the front pair  these are also reddish in color abdomen widest somewhat behind the middle.
Rare Fall Creek Sept. Ceratinella annulipes nov. sp.
Plate II figs.
56 56a and 56b.
Length 9 TSmm.
Cephalothorax dark chestnut brown  sternum dark redbrown  abdomen dark gray nearly black above  legs redbrown most of patella and ends of other joints yellowish no hard spot ends of muscles form reddish impressions on dorsum  head not elevated  epigynum as figured.
One specimen.
Ceratinopsis interpres Cambr.
Two specimens Six Mile Creek and Round Marshes Oct. Apr.
They are redder than in the description of Emerton.
Ceratinopsis nigriceps Em.
Frequent Six Mile Creek Buttermilk Creek Cascadilla Creek Inlet Mai'sh Sept. Jan. Ceratinopsis nigripalpis Em.
One young specimen.
Buttermilk Creek Sept. Ceratinopsis frontatus nov. sp.
Plate V fig 63.
Length 9 l5mm.
Cephalothorax dull yellowishbrown  blacker on head which is somewhat raised  legs a dull orange or brownishyellow  sternum blackish  venter whitish  dorsum a little darkened by small black patches  S. E. on tubercles  epigynum redbrown.
One specimen Fall Creek March.
Grammonota pictilis Cambr.
Several specimens Fall Creek Sept. March.
Grammonota ornata Cambr.
Two specimens Fall Creek near Varna March.
Grammonota venusta.
nov. sp.
Plate V tig 64.
Length 9 2 mm.
Cephalothorax dark yellowbrown marginal seam black eyes on black indistinct dark lines on cephalothorax mandibles redbrown  sternum nearly black  legs bright brownishyellow  abdomen nearly black witli a pattern of light markings similar to the other species but smaller epigynum black  head a little raised lung plates yellowish  cephalothorax nearly smooth abdomen very hairy  head about onehalf the length of cephalothorax which is broad in front and not much wider in middle.
Two specimens.
Coy Glen Feb. Spiropalpus spiralis Em.
One specimen Freville Aug. Corniculftria directa Cambr.
One specimen Fall Creek Oct. Cornicularia communis Em.
One specimen South Hill Apr.
Cornicularia indirecta Cambr.
One specimen Six Mile Creek Apr.
Cornicularia pallida Em.
One specimen probably this species.
Round Marshes Oct. Cornicularia formosa.
nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
35.
Length 9 2ram.
Cephalothorax bright yellow  eyes on a black patch  no dark seam  mandibles dusky at tip rest yellowish  sternum lemonyellow  legs very pale whitish  abdomen gray with a tinge of pink many small indistinct darker patches  epigynum dark  legs long and head low.
Two specimens.
Cornicularia placida no .
sp.
Plate V fig.
30.
Length 9 l9nuii.
Somewhat similar in general appearance to what I have called C. directa  but the epigynum is quite difterent cephalothorax pale chestnut brown darker on the head  abdomen nearly white  epigynum reddish  legs and sternum brownishyellow.
One specimen Fall Creek Oct. Lophomma cristata Blk.
One specimen South Hill Apr.
Probably this species.
Lophocarenum castaneum Em.
Plate IV fig.
3.
Several females which I take to be this species.
The cephalothorax is somewhat more yellowish than in the description  the abdomen is large and well rounded.
Fall Creek March.
Lophocarenum tristis nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
1 Length 9 23mm.
Cephalothorax dark redbrown  legs brownishyellow  mandibles dull reddishbrown sternum and abdomen very dark gray  head a little elevated  abdomen large oval  the middle of hind margin of epigynum is a little raised  sternum quite convex  legs not long.
Three specimens.
Inlet Marsh Apr.
 Fall Creek Oct. Lophocarenum florens Cambr.
Not uncommon Round Marshes Oct.  Burdick's Glen Sept. Lophocarenum unimaculatum nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
2 2a.
Total length 9 24mm.
Length of cephalothorax l'2mm.
breadth  mm.
Length of abdomen l'6mm.
breadth l'2mm.
Cephalothorax orange above and below  eyes surrounded by black rings clypeus and mandibles orange palpi yellow coxte yellowish  base of femora reddish often extending beyond the middle patella tibia and metatarsus dark nearly black tarsus lighter  abdomen orange yellow above and below with a large bluishblack spot in centre of dorsum sjDot rounded behind and pointed in front.
A pretty species found in Inlet Marsh among leaves Oct. and later in Nov. under bark.
Lophocarenum miniatum nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
4.
Length 9 3mm.
Cephalothorax bright orange red darker near eyes  mandibles palpi sternum coxse and femora of legs orangered other joints of legs lighter  abdomen dark gray  in one specimen an oblique light stripe each side  spinnerets yellowish  epigynum reddish  structure as usual in the genus.
Two specimens Freeville May.
Lophocarenum venustum nov. sp.
Place IV fig.
5.
Length 9 27mm.
Cephalothorax orange brightest on cephalic part  eyes on black  legs lighter and more yellow  mandibles brownish at tips  sternum orange abdomen gray muscular impressions on dorsum brownish the basal pair larger and just about twice as close together as are the other pair  as seen from the side on the caudal edge of the mandible about onethird the distance from the base is a rounded tubercle.
Two specimens.
South Hill beyond Buttermilk  Freeville Kov. Aug. Lophocarenutn montiferum Em.
Several specimens.
Six Mile Creek Apr.
Lophocarenum parvum nov. sp.
Plate IV figs.
6 6a and 6b.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish  a line of black around the head marginal seam blackish  eyes surrounded by black  size l5mm.
 legs whitish or nearly colorless mandibles a greenishwhite sternum a yellowishbrown darker on edges  abdomen dark gray with a little tinge of green  palpal organ reddish palpi long especially the femur tibia swollen at tip and with teeth  head elevated  groove just behind the S. E. hole in this groove  legs moderately long  cephalothorax widest nearly at hind margin which is concave.
One specimen Six Mile Creek Sept. Lophocarenum exiguum nov. sp.
Plate V figs.
7 7n 7b.
Length  l5mm.
Cephalothorax dark yellowbrown darkest at cephalic end marginal seam black  legs bright yellowbrown distal joints paler  mandibles pale  sternum yellowbrown  darker than legs  abdomen nearly black with rows of large hairs head greatly elevated upper M. E. can not be seen in a front view.
The sternum is verybroad and the anterior margin is straight.
The groove and hole on head is just above the S. E. One specimen Fall Creek Jan. Lophocarenum spiniferum Cambr.
One specimen.
South Hill Oct. Lophocarenum crenatum Em.
Several specimens.
Six Mile Creek.
Lophocarenum crenatoideum nov. sji.
Plate lY figs.
8 8a and 8b.
Length  l'5mm.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow  eyes surrounded by black  a blackish line around head  legs white or nearly colorless  steinum yellowishbrown quite dark  mouthparts and mandibles pale yellowish  abdomen shining dark gray a little greenish with long white hairs  paljal organ scarcely colored  cephalothorax with sides crenate  head narrowed at upper M. E. then widened  a few cross ridges on middle of cephalothorax  cephalothorax broadest at about middle an elongate groove just behind S. E. hole at cephalic end of groove.
One specimen.
Six Mile Creek Sept. Lophocarenum erigonoides Em.
Plate IV tig.
9.
Several specimens.
Six Mile Creek Sept.  Fall Creek Feb. Lophocarenum formosum nov. sp.
Plate lY fig.
10.
Plate V fig.
10.
Length  l2mm.
length 9 l'4mm.
Cephalothorax bright browmishyellow  head darker  marginal seam black legs paler than cephalothorax sternum redbrown edges nearly black  abdomen nearly black lighter on venter of female  a line of pale spots on each side of venter  abdomen longhaired  tibia of male paljus with two black teeth  head of female scarcely elevate 3 male considerably raised hole just behind the S. E.  farther caudad near the end of head is a groove.
Several specimens.
South Hill Six Mile Creek May Oct. Lophocarenum arvensis nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
11.
Length 9 2mm.
Cephalothorax and mandibles dark redbrown  darkest on head which is but little elevated not humped  palpi redbrown  legs bright brownishyellow  sternum redbrown  abdomen nearly  l'2ram.
55mm.
breadth 5ram.
75mm.
breadth 5mm.
black  cephalothorax widest in middle tapering a little and rounded behind head broad.
Two specimens Fall Creek in field Feb. May.
Lophocarenum longior nov. sp.
Plate IV figs.
12 and 12a.
Length 9 2mm.
Cephalothorax dull brownishyellow darkest on head eyes on black rings  black seam scarcely apparent  legs and A pale scarcely colored  mandibles brownishyellow brighter than cephalothorax  sternum brownishyellow blackish on edges  epigynum reddish venter light gray dorsum darker gray but still quite light lightest at base  the abdomen is longer than usual in the genus mandibles somewhat convex in front.
One specimen Burdick's Glen Sept. Tmeticus unicorn nov. sp.
Plate l figs.
13 l.Sa.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Cephalothorax and legs yellowish  abdomen gray  palpi yellow organ reddish and black sternum and venter dark gray horn yellow  legs with many black hairs  spinnerets white  head elevated no holes from middle of clypeus projects a slender horn somewhat larger at tip than in middle tip with some stiff hairs the tibia of male palpus with a long projection.
One specimen.
Six Mile Creek Nov. Tmeticus trilobatus Em.
One specimen.
Fall Creek Oct.
The palpus is almost the same as the figure in Emerton but the tibia seems to have more projections at the tip.
Tmeticus obscurus nov. sp.
Plate II figs.
14 14a.
Length S l7mm.
Cephalothorax and madibles dull brownishyellow  eyes on black legs paler sternum and abdomen dark latter a little greenish and lighter above than on venter head higher than in most species of the genus as is also the abdomen  cephalothorax broad widest behind the middle not much narrowed behind  mandibles with a tooth in front tarsi of palpi gone tibia enlarged and with several projections.
One specimen.
Six Mile Creek.
Tmeticus flaveolus nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
15.
Length S l'2mm.
Cephalothorax bright brownishyellow with a black seam  eyes Avith black rings  legs yellowish paler than cephalothorax first pair darkest fourth pair lightest  sternum blackishyellow  abdomen pale greenishgray  cephalothorax low  widest behind the middle  palpal organ reddish  tibia enlarged and with several short projections not so much .
as in T. mcesUis  palpal organ smaller than in that species a large tooth in front on mandibles a female perhaps of this species a little smaller.
One male and one female South Hill Oct.  Fall Creek Feb. Tmeticus luxuosus nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
16.
Length  22mm.
Cephalothorax a uniform orange  no dark edge  mandibles similar but blackish at tips  black around eyes  legs pale yellowish  sternum light orange  abdomen light gray  no tooth on front of mandibles  cephalothorax broad in front widest at dorsal groove abdomen narrow  palpal organ small  tibia swollen at tip with several projections.
One specimen.
Fall Creek Aug. Tmeticus rusticus nor.
sp.
Plate II fig.
17.
Length  l5mm.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow legs somewhat orange except patella which is yellow  sternum blackishyellow brown  no teeth on front of mandibles abdomen black head a little higher than usual  palpal organ large dark redbrown very complicated.
One specimen Buttermilk Creek March.
Tmeticus pallidus Em.
Two specimens Six Mile Creek Dec. Tmeticus humilis nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
18.
Length S l'6mm.
Cephalothorax yellowbrown with a black margin  eyes on black  mandibles yellowbrown no tooth in front  abdomen nearly black  legs yellow brown but paler than cephalothorax the first pair darkest  sternum black  spinnerets yellowish  cephalothorax widest at dorsal groove narrow'er behind.
One specimen.
Inlet Marsh Nov. Tmeticus moestus nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
19.
Length S r5rnm.
Cepbalothorax legs and mandibles broAvnish3'ellow eyes on black  cepbalothorax with a few dark marks one large one just behind head  and a line each side reaching to the hind 8.
E. sternum dark gray abdomen a little lighter than sternum cepbalothorax widest behind the middle  mandibles large with a tooth in front  legs quite long  palpi a little longer than usual.
Two specimens Primrose Cliff Dec. Tmeticus debilis nov. sp.
Plate lY fig.
20.
Length  and  l'9mm.
Cepbalothorax brownishyellow  eyes on black  seam black  legs lighter than cepbalothorax  sternum dark brown  venter nearly black  dorsum of abdomen lighter very hairy  cepbalothorax widest much behind the middle  tibia of palpus not much enlarged.
Several specimens Inlet Marsh Primrose Cliff Buttermilk Creek Dec March.
Tmeticus palustris nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
21.
Length  l9mm.
Length 9 l'9mm.
Cepbalothorax yellow  legs similar but lighter  eyes on black  abdomen dark gray sternum yellowbrown darkest on edges epigynum reddishblack  palpal organ reddish  abdomen of male no wider than cepbalothorax in female the abdomen is wider  head of male a little raised  a tooth on front of male mandibles legs moderately long.
Two specimens from Round Marshes in May with a web in the throat of the leaves of the Pitcher plant  one specimen which appears to be the same from Fall Creek Oct. Tmeticus distinctus nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
22.
Length .
9 I'Smm.
Cepbalothorax dull yellowishbrown with faint blackish markings  no black seam  eyes with black rings  sternum dull yellowish brown blacker on edges abdomen dark to light gray  legs dull yeHowishbrown a little duller than cepbalothorax  epigynum reddish  head low  cepbalothorax not tapering much at either end  legs short.
One specimen in woods west of Varna March.
Tmeticus maculatus nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
23.
Length 9 I'Smm.
Cephalotliorax and legs brownishyellow quite bright  eyes on black rings  mandibles and palpi a little brighter than cephalothorax a narrow black seam  sternum blackish  epigynum reddish  abdomen gray darker on venter  dorsum with several pairs of transverse indistinct white spots most clearly seen when wet  epigynum of two flat lobes  no traces of teeth on front of mandibles.
Two specimens Coy Glen Feb. Tmeticus minutus nov. sp.
Plate II tig 24.
Length  1mm.
Cephalothorax pale yellowish head darkest  eyes with black rings  margin scarcely darkened  mandibles brighter than cephalothorax  legs pale with a little brownish and a little tinge of red sternum yellowish  abdomen greenishgray with a few paler spots above  palpal organ dark redbrown  spinnerets white  uo tooth on front of mandibles  tibia of palpus not enlarged  the front M. E. are much smaller than the others.
One specimen in woods west of Varna March.
Tmeticus gnavus nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
44.
Length  I'omm.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow a little darker on edge with a black margin  eyes on black  mandibles yellowish with a large tooth in front  palpi and legs brighter yellow  sternum dark nearly black  abdomen dark gray almost black  spinnerets light  cephalothorax very low wide and short  abdomen narrow  tibia of palpus with several projections.
One specimen Six Mile Creek Apr.
Erigone longipalpis Em.
One specimen Inlet Marsh April.
Linyphinse. 
Linyphia marginata Koch.
Common.
Linyphia communis Hentz.
Not uncommon Freeville May.
Linyphia clathrata Sund.
One specimen Inlet Marsh Nov. 4 Linyphia phrygiana Koch.
Co mm on.
L. phrygiana var.
annulipes.
A little smaller with distiuct rius on tibia while beyond there is scarcely any red marks.
There are one or two extra dark marks on the side of the abdomen near the base  the median stripe on the cephalothorax is divided into four parts on the head one running to each eye.
A few specimens.
Fall Creek.
LinypMa mandibulata Em.
Not uncommon.
in gorges and elsewhere.
Linyphia variabilis nov. s.
Plate II fig.
28.
Total length largest 9 4' mm.
Length of cephalothorax 1 'Omm.
breadth 9 mm.
Length of abdomen 22mm.
breadth r35mm Cephalothorax reddishyellow to red with a black Hue on margin mandibles same as cephalothorax  mouthparts and sternum dark reddish sternum often jet black  legs light russet yellow to greenishyellow  venter dark redbrown  a silvery white band around the sides just above the edge of the dark venter above this a dark redbrown stripe about same width or wider this occasionally subinterrupted at middle.
On dorsum within this last stripe the ground color is chocolate or lighter with small silvery spots and when fully developed the ordinary folium like L. marginata but usually more or less broken  spinnerets black.
Cephalothoi'ax narrowed just in front of first pair of legs gradually elevated toward the eyes  deeply emarginate behind  area occupied by M. E. higher than broad and broader behind than in front  S. E. touching each other  legs hairy with few spines  sjecimens not quite adult of both sexes.
Not uncommon.
Round Marshes Fall Creek Six Mile Creek Oct. Feb. Linyphia conferta Hentz.
Plate II fig.
38.
Total length 9 and S young 33ram.
Length of cephalothorax I'lmra.
breadth 'Omra.
Length of abdomen 2 mm.
breadth Tlmm.
Cephalothorax yellowbrown  eyes on black  a black seam  mandibles yellowbrown  legs pale greenish sometimes a little darker at ends of joints  sternum black  venter dark redbrown extending half way up the side just above this a line of silvery spots smaller in size than in X. variabilis above this a row of blackish spots  dorsum reddish or yellowish with very few small silvery spots on middle of dorsum a pair of redbrown spots behind them another pair sometimes united to a larger darker spot at end of dorsum  base of dorsum with no dark spots  the end of abdomen is more like a Jrontina than is that of L. variabilis  the tarsus of the male palpus as far as developed is much more triangular than that of L. variabilis.
Infrequent South Hill Apr.
 Six Mile Creek Oct.  Fall Creek March.
Stemonyphantes bucculentus Clerck.
Infrequent Buttermilk Creek Six Mile Creek Fall Creek South Hill.
During autumn and winter.
Diplostyla nigrina West.
Infrequent Enfield Creek Sept. Six Mile Creek Nov. and Apr.
Diplostyla pallida nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
29.
Length  2mm.
length 9 l9mm.
Cephalothorax pale greenish  legs similar or paler  sternum more brownish  mandibles more yellow  eyes with a little black abdomen grayish above with several darker but not black cross bands  sides and venter similar to these cross bands epigynum nearly white with a reddish spot each side  palpal organ reddishbrown  legs very long head of  more elevated than in 9  and with a few stiff hairs  mandibles larger than 9.
Three specimens Williams Brook Summit Marsh Aug. Diplostyla alboventris nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
31.
Total length 9 22mm.
Length of cephalothorax ymm.
breadth 6mm.
Length of abdomen l6mm.
breadth 'Qmrn.
Size varies somewhat more than usual.
Cephalothorax yellowbrown darkest at cephalic end and around edges  eyeregion blackish  mandibles palpi mouthparts and sternum similar to cephalothorax  legs lighter with a tinge of green  abdomen white cream or grayish with a broad black stripe on each side reaching to the spinnerets above sometimes with a basal median black spot behind this four crossbands black  the first two sometimes divided in the middle  the fourth often reaches to the stripe on side the others do not  sometimes a trace of a fifth crossband  epigynum is part reddish  legs with a few spines.
The male is sometimes a little larger than female  colors similar except that there is a dark spot at base of venter which extends caudad in some specimens and may darken the whole venter palpal organ dark reddish  it is a beautiful structure.
Locally common exceedingly so on Beebe Island Fall Creek also found in Inlet Marsh  autumn and winter.
Diplostyla concolor Keuss.
Not uncommon in Inlet Marsh Sept. Nov. Drapetisca socialis Sund.
Two specimens male and female.
Helophora insignis Blk.
Infrequent.
Drydeu Lansing Swamp Sept.  Six Mile Creek Sept.  Fall Creek Aug.  Round Marshes Oct. Varies in size and markings.
Bathyphantes minuta Blk.
Inlet Marsh.
One specimen Nov. Bathyphantes nebulosa Sund.
In houses.
Forest Home and Heustis St. March and Nov. Bathyphantes zebra Em.
Common in autumn and winter under leaves.
Bathyphantes alpina Em.
Frequent Inlet Marsh Buttermilk Creek.
Bathyphantes subalpina Em.
Frequent Cascadilla Creek Buttermilk Creek.
Bathyphantes decorata nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
41.
Length 9 and J' r9mm.
Cephalothorax yellow with black around eyes  a black margin  sometimes a dorsal median stripe black  legs with basal joints yellowish distal joints paler sternum dark brown to blackish venter and sides of abdomen in S dark in 9 lighter gray  sides with two silvery spots  dorsum pale with no dark markings or indistinct  a middle interrujited dark chevron and two or three usually more complete behind this  apex dark a number of silvery spots in dorsum  epigynum reddish as is also palpal organ  eyes prominent and projecting head slightly more raised and projecting in male than female legs long abdomen slender.
Infrequent Burdick's Glen Sept. Bathyphantes argenteomaculata nov. sp.
Largest female youug 23mm.
Cephalotliorax pale yellowish as are also the legs  eyes surrounded by black  margin of cephalothorax dark  sternum dark  abdomen light gray above with many small indistinct brownish spots and larger silvery spots which form two oblique stripes each side that approach each other and several crossbands on dorsum  legs very long abdomen as usual.
Several specimens of this pretty species were found in Six Mile Creek in Sept. all young.
Bathyphantes pallida nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
42.
Length  l25mm.
Cephalothorax light yellowbrown  legs same color somewhat brighter  palpi a little more gray  sternum gray or dark gray  abdomen gray or nearly white on dorsum shading into dark gray on venter epigynum red at tip and considerably projecting as seen in the figure  spinnerets light.
Four specimens Six Mile Creek Dec Apr.
 Fall Creek Oct. Bathyphantes sabulosa Keys LinypJiia sabulosa Keys.
Uncommon Six Mile Creek Oct. Bathyphantes zygia Keys.
Erigone zygia Keys.
Not uncommon during autumn and winter under stones and leaves.
Bathyphantes formica Em.
Two specimens Freeville Aug. Bathyphantes umbratilis Keys.
Erigone umbratilis Keys.
In field.
May.
A few specimens.
Bathyphantes complicata Em.
Plate IV fig.
26.
Uncommon South Hill Oct.  Fall Creek March Oct.
The palpal organ agrees pretty closely with Emerton's figure the color of the cejjalothorax and legs is however yellowish not orange.
Bathyphantes unimaculata nov. sp.
Plate II figs.
65 and 65a.
Length  and 9 l9mm.
Cephalothorax greenishgray with small blackish irregular patches  eyes on black  legs brownishyellow  sternum black  abdomen dark gray  darkest on venter almost black  a pale spot near apex on dorsum this is plain in both sexes  the male palpi are not long the organ compact the tarsal hook is very large and projects out to one side  epigynum reddish.
Not uncommon Fall Creek Six Mile Creek Feb. Bathyphantes inornata nov. sp.
Plate Y. fig.
66.
Length J and 9 l8mm.
Male a little smaller and narrower.
Cephalothorax and legs yellowbrown eyes on black  abdomen blackish or grayish often with a greenish tinge and with many little whitish dots  sternum dark brown or nearly black  epigynum and palpal organ reddish  head of male not raised  abdomen without markings or at most with a few narrow light crosslines on dorsum near apex.
Common under stones in fields autumn and winter.
Bathyphantes tristis nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
45.
Length 9 l.5mm.
Cephalothorax and legs dull brownishyellow blackish near margin of cephalothorax  eyes with black rings  mandibles brighter yellow  sternum blackish  abdomen dark brown or nearly black  epigynum dark redbrown showing as a roundish projection  legs not very long.
Uncommon  Fall Creek March  Six Mile Creek March  Inlet Marsh Nov. Microneta viaria Blk.
KSeveral specimens.
Fall Creek Oct. Nov. Microneta latens nov. sp.
Plate Y fig.
46.
Length 9 2lmm.
Young males about the same size.
Cephalothorax brownishyellow with a black margin and dark rays each side  eyes on black rings  legs and palpi yellowish sometimes with a little tinge of green  mandibles and mouthparts yellowbrown  sternum dark gray  abdomen very dark almost black sometimes with a tinge of green epigynum reddish spinnerets light abdomen widest a little behind the middle cephalothorax low broadest behind the middle  legs long and slender  epigynum quite similar to M. qumquedentata.
Common on wet ground during autumn and winter.
Microneta quinquedentata Em.
Common in autumn.
Microneta palustris nov. sp.
Plate II tig.
47.
Length  .
29mm.
Cepbalothorax dark orange brown shining  legs brighter first pair darkest tips of legs darker than base  mandibles as cepbalothorax  sternum redbrown  abdomen black hairy  legs with long black hairs tibia of male palpus small without teeth femur long  S. E. touching  upper M. E. larger than lower and a little farther apart.
Two specimens Negundo woods Feb. Microneta discolor Em.
Several specimens Fall Creek Feb. Microneta cornupalpis Em.
Not uncommon.
Fall and Six Mile Creeks Nov. March April.
Some females are twice as large as others.
Microneta luteola nov. sp.
Plate II tig.
48.
Length  23mm.
Cepbalothorax bright brownishyellow  margin scarcely darker  eyes with black rings  mandibles yellowish  legs lighter than cepbalothorax  sternum yellow with dark edges  venter blackish gray with a pale line each side  dorsum gray with a whitish band near apex and in front of this a number of small indistinct light spots  palpal organ dark reddish  legs very long  cepbalothorax very broad and low  head broad.
One specimen Fall Creek Nov. Microneta flaveola nov. sp.
Plate Y tig.
49.
Length  l2mm.
Cepbalothorax mandibles and legs pale brownishyellow  eyes with black rings  sternum blackish  abdomen greenishgray lighter above somewhat blackish on venter  palpal organ reddish  palpi short  legs long  tibia of male palpus small  abdomen small and low.
One specimen.
Six Mile Creek.
Microneta complicata nov. sp.
Plate II tig.
50.
Length  27mm.
Cepbalothorax orange yellow  eyes with black rings  mandibles slender and narrow yellowish  legs yellowish a little lighter than cepbalothorax  sternum blackishyellow  abdomen nearly black  spinnerets white  cepbalothorax low and broad  male palpi dark reddish very large tarsus with a short but prominent spur and below it a curved hook  alpal organ extremely complicated.
One specimen Michigan Hollow Swamp Apr.
Microneta minutissima nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
27.
Length  OSmm.
Cepbalothorax mandibles and dorsum of abdomen pale greenish  legs and palpi still paler almost colorless  palpal organ not much darker  eyes surrounded by black rings which almost touch each other in the upper row and do unite in the lower row  abdomen with scattered long black hairs  venter and sternum pale greenish with a few blackish spots aud lines which make these parts appear darker  legs very long and slender  cepbalothorax low broadest behind the middle quite broad in front  abdomen low and narrow.
One specimen.
Fall Creek Oct. Microneta frontata nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
51.
Length 9 2'4mm.
Cepbalothorax reddishyellow  legs duller and paler  eyes with black rings  sternum yellow edges more reddish  epigynum reddish surrounded by yellow  spinnerets yellow  abdomen gray  legs not very long and stout  head broad abdomen low and not much longer than cepbalothorax epigynum large and quite peculiar in shape.
One specimen.
Microneta gigantea nov. sy.
Plate II fig.
52.
Length 9 3mm.
Cepbalothorax pale yellowish blackish on edges a black central line on head and one each side of head  eyes except front M. E. surrounded by reddish rings front M. E. much smaller than other eyes and on black  mandibles brighter yellow than cepbalothorax  legs pale yellowish sternum similar abdomen gray darker above than on venter  epigynum projecting.
One specimen.
Fall Creek Aug. Microneta distincta nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
53.
Length 
29mm.
Cepbalothorax and sternum light orangered  legs and mandibles lighter  eyes on a black patch  abdomen black  clypeus and mandibles retreating  palpal organ dark very complicated  tibia swollen and with several projections.
One specimen Freeville May.
EPEIRID.
Epeirinse.
Epeira corticaria Em.
Locally not uncommon Dryden Lansing Swamp Sept. Epeira silvatica Em.
Rare Fall Creek Oct. Epeira nordmanni Thor.
Common in gorges Sept. Nov. Several varieties of the species.
Epeira cinerea Em.
Locally common on cliffs in gorges Buttermilk and Fall Creeks Sept. Nov. Epeira sclopeteria Clerck.
Common Aug. Nov. Epeira patagiata Clerck.
Infrequent under bark Inlet Marsh Nov. Epeira strix Hentz.
Common Aug. Nov. and in spring.
Epeira trifolium Hentz.
Common Sept. Nov. Epeira marmorea Clerck.
One specimen.
Epeira insularis Hentz.
Common Aug. Nov. Epeira thaddeus Hentz.
Not uncommon.
Inlet Marsh South Hill Marsh Sept. Oct. Epeira pratensis Hentz.
Not common.
Epeira trivittata Kejs.
Common Sept. Oct. Epeira domiciliorum Hentz.
Common Sept. Oct. Epeira dispiicata Hentz.
Common Aug. Oct. Epeira juniperi Em.
One specimen.
Epeira labyrinthea Hentz Common Sept. Oct. Epeira globosa Keys.
Rare.
Epeira placida Hentz.
Frequent in wet places.
Fall Creek Round Marshes June Sept. Epeira gibberosa Hentz.
Common in grass Aug. Sept. Epeira parvula Keys.
Common Sept. Oct. Epeira steHata Hentz.
Infrequent fields South Hill Summit Marsh Dryden Lansing Swamp Round Marshes Aug. Epeira ithaca McCook MSS.
Not common.
Cyclosa conica Pallas.
Very common.
Singa variabilis Em.
Not uncommon.
Round INIarshes and wet meadows.
Singa maculata Em.
Infrequent Buttermilk and Fall Creek.
Acrosoma rugosa Hentz.
One male.
Meta menardi Latr.
Infrequent Fall Creek Buttermilk Creek in dark cliffs Sept. Oct. Argiope riparia Hentz.
Common Sept. Oct. Argiope transversa.
Not uncommon Sept. Oct. Argyroepeira hortorum Hentz.
Not uncommon in grass and herbs Fall Creek Six Mile Creek Sept. Tetragnatha vermiformis Em.
One specimen.
Tetragnatha extensa Linn.
Not uncommon.
Tetragnatha grallator Hentz.
Very common.
Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz.
Common.
Tetragnatha straminea Em.
Common.
Tetragnatha caudata Era.
Rare Inlet Marsh males and females  the latter resemble the former.
Tetragnatha pallida nov. sp.
Plate V figs.
88 8Sa.
Total length   not including mandibles 9' mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3 mm.
breadth I'Smni.
Length of maudibles o'4mm.
fang 28mm.
Length of tibia and patella I  10' mm.
Cephalothorax legs palpi mandibles mouthparts and sternum yellowish lip darker fang reddish and tip of palpus a little reddish  abdomen gray with many small silvery spots no other markings  abdomen long slender and cylindrical  narrower than ceihalothorax  legs long  S. E. farther apart than M. E. lower S. E. smaller than other eyes  mandibles very long a large tooth in front  the largest tooth on side is the distal one fang bent tibia of palpus about twice as long as patella.
It differs from T. grallator in position of eyes and shape of mandibles from T. vermiformis in shape of mandibles and length of tibia of male palpus  from T. straminea in eyes and mandibles  from T. extensa in eyes mandibles and tibia of male palpus  from T. laboriosa in eyes mandibles and tibia of male palpus  from T. caudata in eyes mandibles and shape of abdomen  from T. Jiuviatilis in position of eyes  from T. illinoiensis in position of eyes.
Two male specimens.
Pachygnatha brevis Keys.
Not uncommon in marshes Nov. Dec. Pachygnatha autumnalis Keys.
Not uncommon Fall Creek Round Marshes Six Mile Creek Oct. Dec. 52 1892.
Pachygnatha xanthostoma Keys.
Rare one specimen.
Uloboringe.
TJloborus plumipes Lucas.
Rare Six Mile Creek Fall Creek Aug. Hyptiotes cavatus Ilentz.
Very common.
THOMISIDJE.
Thomisinse.
Xysticus stomachosus Keys.
Plate III fig.
1.
Several specimens.
Xysticus feroculus Keys.
Plate Til figs.
3 and 3a.
A few specimens not common.
Xysticus distinctus nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
89.
Total length 9 67mm.
Length of cephalothoras 8' mm.
breadth 2'9mm.
Length of sternum TSmm.
breadth .9mm.
Length of femur I 3 mm.
tibia I 2 ram.
Length of femur IV 2 mm.
tibia IV 1.6mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets l5nim.
Cephalothorax a light reddishbrown on sides growing darker and containing a large triangular light spot behind upper edge straight  above a broad light stripe with a median double line terminated behind by a black triangle  in front each side of this line a little tinged with brown eyes black clypeus white mandibles light legs pale above mottled with brownish and a few black spots and with a white line on front pairs hind legs more distinctly ringed with black at tip of femur tip of patella and base and tip of tibia  under side of coxse with a few brown linear markings  sternum light with a dark border interrupted in front the field with many dark dots mouthparts bi'ownish abdomen above light brown white near the apex  near base a few black spots  near apex a black blotch each side connected by a black line  in front of these two narrow transverse black bands broadly interrupted in the middle  in front of each black band a narrow light band  venter brown mottled with blackish  epigynum yellow.
The M. E. equal and equally far apart the lower nearer the lower S. E. than to each other  M. E. form a quadrangle broader than high.
Two rows of 67 spines on under side of tibise and metatarsi I and II.
Abdomen broadest behind the middle.
One adult and several young Indian Spring.
Xysticus brunneus.
nov. p.
Plate III fig.
4.
Total length 9 8'5mm.
Length of cephalothorax 4 mm.
breadth 4 mm.
Length of sternum 2 mm.
breadth l4mm.
Length of femur I 32mm.
tibia I 29mm.
Length of femur IV 25mm.
tibia IV r9mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 2'3mm.
Cephalothorax reddishbrown darker on cephalic part and on sides  more yellow behind  a brighter narrow stripe on the middle  clypeus same color  falces and palpi reddishbrown  maxillse lip sternum and under side of legs lighter more yellowish legs upper side reddishbrown  distal joints darkest.
Abdomen above and below a uniform dark brown without markings  spinnerets reddish.
Cephalothorax widest a little caudad of middle much higher at middle than in front clypeus vertical  eyes in two nearly equallybent rows those of upper row of about equal size and at equal distances from each other  the four M. E. form a quadrangle wider than high  the lower M. E. scarcely smaller and slightly nearer each other than the upper M. E. lower M. E. scarcely nearer the much larafer S. E. than each other sternum much longer than wide  abdomen rounded  the epigynum consists of a cavity broader than long at the bottom of which two dark oblong bodies lie separated by a septum.
On tibiiB I and II two rows of six to seven spines  on metatarsi I and II two rows of five to six spines.
One specimen.
Xysticus crudelis nov. sp.
Plate III figs.
5 and oa.
Total length 9 Length of cephalothorax 39mm.
Length of sternum  2 mm.
Length of femur I 3 mm.
Length of femur IV 24mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 'Cephalothorax yellow with sides reddishbrown and above on head same color the edges of head white  a narrow median consisting of two dark lines  clypeus and eyeregion reddishbrown  falces palpi mouthparts sternum reddishbrown  upper surface of legs yellowish thickly mottled with dark brown distal joints darker.
Abdomen dark brown lighter around the anterior sides  83mm.
breadth 38mm.
breadth 1pmm.
tibia I 23mm.
tibia IV l'9mm.
27mm.
sides of dorsum darkest and separated into three parts by light cross lines venter dark brown somewhat reddish in the middle spinnerets yellowish reddishbrown at base.
Cephalothorax higher in middle than in front  clypeus vertical  the four M. E. form a quadrangle as broad as high  the lower M. E. not smaller and as far from each other as are the upper M. E. from each other and nearer to the larger S. E. than to each other  eyes of upper row at about equal distances and of nearly equal size.
On both tibipe and metatarsi I and II two rows of five to six spines.
Rare.
Xysticus transversus nov. sp.
Plate III figs.
6 6a and 6b.
Total length 9 8mm.
Length of cephalothorax 85mm.
breadth o2mm.
Length of sternum l7mm.
breadth l2mm.
Length of femur I 3' mm.
tibial 2 mm.
Length of femur IV 2'2mm.
tibia IV r6mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 2'7mm.
Cephalothorax light yellowish with a dark reddishbrown baud each side terminated by two black oblong spots  head reddishbrown edge white with a narrow median stripe terminated behind by a black spot  clypeus lighter than sides  base of hills of S. E. white  falces palpi mouthjarts sternum and under side of legs light reddishbrown spotted or striped with darker brown legs above light reddishbrown with darker spots  a white stripe on femur patella and tibia I and II.
Abdomen brown above white on posterior sides and dark brown on venter spinnerets white with a dark band at base the brown of dorsum darker toward the apex and here separated on each side by a few white cross lines into almost black quadrangles.
Cephalothorax much higher in middle than in front widest in middle clypeus vertical eyes in two rows about equally curved  the four M. E. form a quadrangle wider than high  the lower M. E. as far from each other as are the upper M E. from each other  the lower M. E. farther from each other than from the very much larger S. E.  the eyes of the upper row at about equal distances from each other  the upper M. E. somewhat larger than the lower M. E and smaller than the upper S. E. abdomen rounded widest caudad of middle  on metatarsi I and II two rows of four to five spines on tibite I and II two rows of three to four sjiines.
Not uncommon Sept. What I take to be the male is smaller 4mm.
long  the markings and color similar but brighter  palpus as figured.
Xysticus lentus nov. sp.
Plate IT fig.
67.
Total length S 45mm.
Length of femur I 3'8nim.
tibial 22mm.
Cephalothorax as broad as long and shorter than femur I. Cephalothorax reddishbrown on sides  with a light stripe in middle above a darker somewhat triangular area in front part of this light stripe terminated behind by a black triangle a light band connecting the S. E.  clypeus and mandibles reddishbrown  sternum pale with many small brown dots  coxe lineated with brown  underside of legs pale with a narrow brown stripe and numerous brown dots above with darker blotches  metatarsi and tarsi pale.
Abdomen brown above with small white and dark brown transverse spots on hinder part  edge of abdomen with a white line  venter creased with white and brown.
The M. E. equal and form a square  lower M. E. nearer to the larger S. E. than to each other eyes of the upper row at about equal distances.
Two rows of four to six spines on under side of tibiae and metatarsi I and II.
Male palpi with the two horny claws projecting from the center as in X. triguttatus and X. discursmis.
Two males.
Xysticus triguttatus Keys.
Several males  one has one of the upper M. E. only about onesixth the size of the other.
Xysticus nervosus nov sp.
Plate III figs.
8 and 8a.
Plate IV fig.
84.
Total length 9 7mm.
Length of cephalothorax 32mm.
breadth o'lmm.
Length of sternum 2mm.
breadth l5mm.
Length of femur I 32mm.
tibia I 25mm.
Length of femur IV 25mm.
tibia IV I'Smm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets 2' mm.
Cephalothorax light yellowish sides mottled and veined with reddishbrown  a narrow darkedged stripe on head terminated behiud by a reddish point  clypeus reddishbrown in one case a light stripe between the two rows of eyes  falces yellowish darker toward the base  mouthparts sternum under side of coxje femora and palpi light yellow palpi darker above rest of legs yellowishbrown spotted with brown and with tibia and metatarsi I and II darker toward the tip.
Abdomen reddishbrown with many faint white spots  sides and venter reddishbrown  spinnerets light yellow.
Cephalothorax much higher in middle than in front widest at middle  clypeus vertical  eyes in two curved rows  the eyes of the upper row at about equal distances and about equal in size  the M. E. of the lower row about as close to each other as to the much larger S. E. the four M. E. make a quadrangle much wider than high  the lower M. E. smaller and slightly closer to each other than the upper M. E. abdomen rounded  two rows of spines on tibise and metatarsi I and II five to seven spines in each row  epigynum consists of a cavity wider than long somewhat triangular in outline divided by a low septum.
Total length  5mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'4mm.
breadth 2'4mni.
Length of sternum I'lmm.
breadth 1 mm.
Length of femur I 34mm.
tibia I 3' mm.
Length of femur IV 21 mm.
tibia IV l'6mm.
Cephalothorax and appendages as in the 9  abdomen yellowishbrown venter lighter  three pairs of elongate reddishbrown spots on caudal part of dorsum  a white band on the cephalic edge of each spot  eyes as in the   abdomen longer in proportion to size than in 9 .
Net uncommon in meadows.
Sept. taken in copulation Xysticus formosus nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
9.
 Total length  B4mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'8mm.
breadtli 2'8mm Length of sternum l4mm.
breadth 1' mm.
Length of femur I 3 mm.
tibia I 2 ram.
Length of femur IV 2 mm.
tibia IV l3mm.
Distance letween epigynum and spinnerets 2' mm.
Cephalothorax yellowbrown darkest on head with a median light line  sides reddishbrown terminated behind by a darker brown spot  margin nearly white  clypeus yellowbrown  base of hills of S. E. whitish  mandibles and palpi reddishbrown  legs darker redbrown base of femora lighter tarsus darkest  sternum yellowish darker on sides  venter whitish sides obliquely striped with brown spinnerets reddish dorsum white with four pair of large triangular spots brown somewhat connected with each other leaving a median serrated white stripe  basal spots largest  quadrangle of M. E. broader than high  four M. E. equally large  upper S. E. larger than ujper M. E. and a little smaller than lower S. E. which are very much larger than lower M. E. eyes of upper row at about equal distances lower row with M. E. closer to S. E. than to each other  four pairs of spines on tibia I  four to five pairs on metatarsus I  three pairs on tibia II  four pairs on metatarsus II.
Rare two specimens one from woods west of Varna in March.
Xysticus limbatus Keys.
Two males.
Xysticus quadrilineatus Keys.
Plate III fig.
10.
Infrequent.
Xysticus gulosus Keys.
Plate III figs.
7 and 7a.
Infrequent Six Mile Creek Sept. Xysticus maculatus Keys.
Not uncommon Sept.
This may not be this species if not it is new.
Oxyptila georgiana Keys.
Plate III fig.
11.
Not uncommon Inlet Marsh Oct. Oxyptila conspurcata Thor.
Plate III fig.
12.
Rare Fall Creek in woods west of Varna under leaves in March Coriarachne versicolor Keys.
Plate III fig.
13.
Common under bark in winter.
Misumena rosea Keys.
Plate III figs.
15 15a.
Several specimens.
Misumena georgiana Keys.
One specimen.
Misumena foliata nov. sp.
Plate III figs.
17 17a.
Total length 9 Length of cephalothorax 2 mm.
Length of sternum 1 mm.
Length of femur I 2'3mm.
Lensrth of femur IV l2mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets Cephalothorax white or slightly yellowish with a light brown band each side not reaching to caudal margin the cephalic ends connected through the eyeregion by a broad reddish band that frequently covers the whole clypeus  eyes surrounded by white  mouthparts white with black hairs  sternum white.
Abdomen whitish a red horizontal and two oblique bands each side the 5 Plate II fig.
3 7.
5 mm.
breadth 2' mm.
breadth 8 mm.
tibia I l8mra.
tibia IV 9 mm.
s I'Smm.
58 1892. latter often faint  on front of dorsum a red spot  caudal half of dorsum with two red stripes converging to meet just above the spinnerets  venter and spinnerets light the latter sometimes with a red spot at base.
Markings on dorsum vary in quantity  sometimes the red spot on front of dorsum is connected with the two bands behind  sometimes the red bands are so wide that the dorsum appears red with four white bands.
Legs whitish the metatarsi I and II usually a little darker tibia I and II frequently with two red bands.
Front of cephalothorax as high as in middle  widest in middle  lower row of eyes more curved than upper  upper row of equal size  M. E. slightly nearer each other than to the S. E.  lower row about of the same size and at equal distances the four M. E. forma quadrangle just as broad as high  abdomen widest a little caudad of middle sternum heartshaped almost as wide in front as in middle  body and legs covered with bristles arising from reddish punctures two rows of spines on tibise I and II two to four spines in each row  two rows of five to six spines on metatarsi I and II.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Markings similar to the 9  l8mm.
9mm.
2 mm.
I'lmm.
mm.
75mm.
4 1 75mm.
18 mm.
8 mm.
breadth breadth tibia I tibia IV a little brighter  the femur I and II with prominent red spots patella and tibipe I and II with red bands.
Common Se2t. Oct. Misumena vatia Clerck.
Common May and Sept. Misumena placida nov. sp.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV 4'Smm.
breadth l9mm.
breadth 75mm tibia I 18mm.
tibia IV 6mm.
14mm.
9 juv.
2mm.
 mm.
2.5mm.
1 mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets Cephalothorax light yellow with a band each side of reddishyellow reaching from the anterior margin and not quite to the posterior  at end of head a small projection entad from each band eyeregion whitish  clypeus a little reddish  legs a light grayyellow distal joints a little redder.
Abdomen a graywhite above and below sternum and mouthparts white abdomen with many reddish punctures each supporting a blackish hair.
Area occupied by M. E. as long as broad a little broader behind  eyes of upper row of equal size and at about equal distances the lower M. E. equal the upper M. E. and are smaller than the lower S. E. to which they are no nearer than to each other  abdomen pointed behind  two rows of four to five spines on tibia I and II two rows of six to seven spines on metatarsi I and II.
One young specimen.
Runcinia aleatorius Hentz.
Plate III figs.
18 and ISa.
Thomisics aleatorius Hentz 
.
Runcinia brendelU Kevs.
Two females one Avith abdomen white the other with abdomen yellow.
Aug. on the campus.
Tmarsus caudatus Hentz.
Not uncommon in Sept. on trees and fences.
Philodrominse.
Tibellus oblongus Walck.
Common in sphagnum bogs May.
Philodromus vulgaris Hentz.
Plate III figs.
23 and 23a.
Common.
Philodromus praelustris Keys.
Plate III fig.
19.
What I take to be this species is not very common  one specimen was taken in a house Oct. Philodromus signifer nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
20.
Total length 9 jiiv.
5mm.
Cephalothorax white or yellowish dark brown each side  clyjeus light a brown band extending through the lower row of eyes and ending in the S. E. of the upper row here enlarged and extending around the upper M. E.  between the upper M. E. arises a short median brown line extending a short distance caudad  a little removed from the caudal end each side is a small brown puncture  legs white with brown markings  several small spots on coxae  a band at middle and end of femora  jjatella suffused with brown tibia with a band at each end and some small spots between  metatarsus and tarsus with spots the latter often dirty white  palpi white with brown spots  mandibles yellowishwhite with a few brown marks at base  mouthparts sternum and venter white lip a little darker  spinnerets yellowish white.
Abdomen white with a dark brown stripe around each side not meeting either in front or behind  above a lighter brown cloud covers nearly the whole dorsum  on the anterior part is left two white stripes which meet at about the middle of the abdomen  behind this a few white spots  at about the middle of the length of each white stripe is a brown puncture.
Cephalothorax widest behind the middle truncate behind and angles rounded  the clypeus but slightly oblique and rounded  eyes all about equal  all M. E. nearer to S. E. than to each other  the upper M. E. nearly as far apart as the lower S. E. the two S. E. and one upper M. E. form an equilateral triangle  S. E. on tubercles  sternum truncate in front and behind extending between hind coxse  abdomen widest behind the middle  base slightly emarginate  probably next to last moult.
Male young  same size but legs longer same coloration except legs with more brown.
Not uncommon in woods under bark in winter.
Philodromus gracilis nov. sp.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Distance between epigyn Cephalothorax yellowishbrown darker brown on sides  clypeus yellowish  falces yellow  lip brown  maxillae and palpi yellow  sternum light yellow  femora and coxse light yellow spotted with bi'own  other joints darker with brown spots venter light  epigynum darker  dorsum of abdomen brown with many small white spots larger toward the base  near caudal end a few short narrow curved light crossbands best seen when wet.
Cephalothorax not much higher in middle than in front  upper row of eyes nearly straight  lower row curved  the four M. E. make a quadrangle wider behind than high and wider behind than in front  eyes all of nearly equal size  the upper M. E. nearer to S. E. than to each other  the lower M. E. also nearer S. E. than to each other  clypeus nearly vertical a little convex  abdomen narrower than cephalothorax  widest a little behind the middle  basal edge straight as are also the anterior sides  hind angle acute  two rows of three spines each on both tibijB and metatarsi I and II  epigynum consists of a cavity broader than long a clubshaped body lies across it.
Two specimens one from Buttermilk Creek March.
late III fig.
21.
9 68mm.
3' mm.
breadth 3 mm.
l'9mm.
breadth l5mm.
31mm.
tibia I 27mm.
36mm.
tibia IV 26mm.
m and spinner ets 23mni.
Philodromus unicolor nov sp.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of sternum 'fe Lenscth of femur I  T Plate III fig.
22.
9 4'2mm r75mm.
breadth l8mm ri mm.
breadth 1 mm 21 mm.
tibia I l'9mm 2 ram.
tibia IV l3mm im and spinnere its 2mm Length of femur Y Distance between ej Cephalothorax and abdomen gray above the former with a few brown stripes  legs liglit gray above mottled with brown  falces and lip gray  maxillse lighter  sternum white  legs whitish on underside palpi gray above light beneath black at tip venter whitish  spinnerets yellowish  epigynum reddish.
Cephalothorax flat  Avidest near caudal end  clypeus a little oblique  eyes about equal  M. E. of both rows nearer S. E. than to each other  the four M. E. make a quadrangle wider behind than high and twice as wide behind as in front abdomen as wide as cephalothorax  hind angle slightly acute three pairs of spines on under side of both tibiae and metatarsi I and II.
Rare Sept. on pavement.
Philodromus ornatus nov. sp.
Plate III figs.
24 and 24a.
Total length O' 9 4'5mm.
15 mm.
breadth r6mm.
95mm.
breadth 9mm.
18 mm.
tibia I l4mm.
19 mm.
tibia IV I'lmm.
m and sp innerets l'75mm Length of cephalothorax Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Distance between epigyni Cephalothorax yellowishwhite sides brown  clypeus and eyeregion yellowishwhite  upper edge of side stripes straight and parallel to each other falces greenishyellow  mouthparts and sternum white  legs and palpi white distal joints darker with scattered dark markings.
Abdomen above white  venter dirty white  sides black  at the middle an angular piojection of the black of the side extends into the white above toward the apex of the white above some faint dark chevrons  under spinnerets yellow upper ones dark  epigynum dark.
Cephalothorax and spines as usual  abdomen one and one half times as wide as cephalothorax  hind angle right angled  eyes about equal in size  all except lower M. E. on prominent white hills  M. E. of both rows nearer S. E. than each other  the four M. E. make a quadrangle wider behind both than in front and high  sternum sharp pointed behind not prolonged between the hind coxae.
Two specimens.
62 1892.
Plate III figs.
25 and 26a.
9 35mm.
1'5 mm.
breadth r4ram.
1mm.
breadth 9mm.
l95mm.
tibia I I'Smm.
19 mm.
tibia IV l2mm.
m and spiui aerets 1mm.
Philodromus placidus nov. sp.
Total leugth Length of eephalothorax Length of sternum Length of femur I Lengcth of femur IV Cephalothorax white or dirty white  the sides dark reddishbrown the inner margin of the dark sides not quite parallel  just behind each upper M. E. a short brownish stripe  clypeus dirty yellowish white  legs white with dark markings  one on upper side of coxae one at middle and one at end of femora a few fainter beyond  mandibles dirty yellowwhite  mouthparts nearly white  sternum white.
Abdomen and venter white or dirty white  spinnerets reddish  epigynum redbrown  on each side of the abdomen is a dark brown stripe which do not meet in front but suddenly narrowing at the middle of their length and growing fainter behind meet above the spinnerets  on anterior dorsum a light brown spearshaped mark  at each side of the middle a little brown puncture  on each side of the end a larger oblique imjiression  behind tliese some faint light brown curved crossbands.
Cephalothorax widest behind the middle truncate behind hind angles rounded  clypeus oblique  upper row of eyes equal in size and M. E. nearer S. E. than to each other lower M. E. smaller and nearer S. E. than to each other  the upper M. E. nearer the lower S. E. than to any other eyes and nearly as fiir apart as are the lower S. E.  the uper S. E. on prominent tubercles sternum truncate in front  prolonged between the hind cox widened behind and truncate abdomen emarginate at base widest slightly behind the middle.
Several specimens.
Philodromus minutus nov. sp.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of sternumLength of femur I Length of femur IV Plate V fig.
85.
9 1' mm.
8 mm.
l'05mm.
3 mm.
breadth r mm.
breadth 6 mm.
tibia I 95 mm.
tibia IV 6 mm.
11 mm.
1' mm.
Distance between epigynum and spinnerets Cephalothorax white on yellowishwhite the sides reddishbrown  legs white or yellowishwhite Avith a few scattered dark markings  clypeus yellowish  abdomen dirty white or yellowish  darker or brown on the anterior sides blackish near the apex on each side  none of the brown extends over into the white dorsum as in P. oniatus above on dorsum three somewhat broad brown stripes one mesal ending at the middle of the abdomen  behind this a broader one on each side extending twothirds of the way to the spinnerets  falces mouthparts and sternum yellowishgray venter gray or white spinnerets darker at tips epigynum reddishbrown eyes on white hills.
Abdomen oval almost twice as long as wide not much wider than cephalothorax  eyes equal about as usual  sternum prolonged between the hind coxte  anterior angles sharp  sides pointed between the coxse II and III  a series of black dots around the edge.
Uncommon.
Philodromus minusculus nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
39.
Total length  29mm.
Cephalothorax white  brown on each side  abdomen white above black around the sides  legs light Avith faint darker bands toward the tip  sternum broad extending between the hind coxae concave in front abdomen flat  venter light falces reddish  mouthparts a little yellowish  the black along the sides is continuous while in P. minutus it is interrupted in the middle.
Close to P. mbiutus but no stripes on dorsum the white much clearer while in P. minutus the white is yellowish.
One specimen.
Philodromus exilis nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
40.
Total length 9 38mm.
Length of cephalothorax l4mm.
breadth l4mm.
Length of abdomen 24mm.
breadth l2mm.
Lentrth of sternum 'Smm.
breadth 6mm.
Cephalothorax light yellow in middle sides thickly veined Avith yellowbrown  clypeus yellowish mandibles and palpi nearly white  sternum whitish with little punctures most numerous on the sides of a lavender color  lungplates white  epigynum reddishyellow  spinnerets yellowish  venter whitish with lavender punctures growing more numerous on the sides and behind  dorsum and upper sides of abdomen white washed with lavender darkest on the sides and behind  the plan of markings is similar to P. rufus a faint median stripe on front of dorsum  behind this two darker stripes which are indistinctly connected with the side stripe  coxae yelloAvish  legs all broken off the sternum is much narrower than in p. rujus aud projects farther behind  eyes similar to P. rufus but the S. E. are farther from each other than in that species.
One specimen from Freeville May.
Philodromus rufus Walck.
Plate III fig.
26.
Common.
Philodromus laticeps Keys.
One specimen  probably this species.
Philodromus aureolus Clerck.
Three young specimens are probably this species.
LYCOSID.
Lycosa frondicola Ein.
Common among dead leaves in gorges.
Lycosa nidicola Em.
Common among dead leaves in gorges.
Lycosa kochi Keys.
Not uncommon among dead leaves.
Lycosa communis Em.
Frequent under stones South Hill Six Mile Creek McKinney's Twin Glens.
Lycosa nigroventris Eqi.
Rare Summit Marsh Aug. Lycosa pratensis Em.
Common in fields.
Lycosa similis nov. sp.
Plate II fig.
30.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Cephalothorax yellow  eyes surrounded by black  a brown stripe each side and a brown margin  the dorsal light stripe is suddenly narrowed at caudal part of head  the anterior portion contains a short dark stripe each side  mandibles reddishyellow mouthparts and sternum yellow the latter with a faint darker spot in middle  legs and palpi yellow no darker markings finely black haired and black spined  venter grayishyellow  epigynum reddish very small  9 108mm.
49mm.
breadth 3' 7 mm.
6 mm.
breadth 38mm.
2 ram.
breadth l'5mm.
32mm.
tibia I 25mm.
4'lmm.
tibia IV 3mm.
spinnerets like venter  dorsum dark brownishyellow  a black spearshaped outline on front part and some cross lines behind this  some small dark spots on rest of dorsum  eyes as usual.
Occasional in fields near Indian Spring.
cosa rufiventris nov. sp.
Plate Ill fig.
35 Total length 9 Length of cephalothorax 52mm.
Length of abdomen 7 mm.
Length of sternum 25mm.
Length of femur I 3lmm.
Length of femur IV 39mm.
Small female about 10 Imm.
long.
12miii.
breadth o'5mm.
breadth 44mm.
breadth r8mm.
tibia I 2'4mm.
tibia IV o mm.
tish  a li ght median Cephalothorax redbrown  eyeregion blackish stripe widest in front and gradually tapering toward the hind mai'gin  a light stripe each side somewhat above the margin occasionally indistinct  mandibles darker redbrown  mouthparts redbrown lighter at tips  sternum redbrown  legs and palpi a little lighter sometimes with very indistinct darker spots or rings abdomen above and below redbrown like sternum  epigynum surrounded by jet black hairs no definite plan of markings only a few scattered small darker spots on dorsum which are often indistinct  abdomen covered with yellowbrown hairs.
First row of eyes not quite as wide as second  dorsal eyes farther from each other than are the second row of eyes and much closer to them than to each other the epigynum is much like that of Trochosa avara but the species is much larger and no sign of spots on the venter and scarcely a trace of them on dorsum  it is difierent from what I have called T. avara.
Uncommon Fall Creek Jan. Lycosa humilis nov. sp.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Cephalothorax redbrown darkest on upper sides but not a distinct stripe  eyeregion nearly black  mandibles and sternum redbrown  legs light redbrown to yellowbrown darkest on front pairs no markings on them  palpi like legs  abdomen brown no stripe  venter lighter brown  maxillte scarcely tipped with white  Plate III fig.
36.
9 10'5mm.
lorax 5 mm.
breadth 3'lmm.
6' mm.
breadth 3 mm.
2omm.
breadth l8mm.
34mm.
tibia I 2'5mm.
44mm.
tibia IV 4' mm.
66 1892. spinnerets like venter  epigynum reddish  legs black haired and spined  abdomen with long black and white hairs and shorter yellowish ones  sternum with stiff black hairs  epigynum surrounded by white hairs  first row of eyes shorter than second  eyes of second row more than their diameter apart and not larger than dorsal eyes.
One specimen Round Marshes May.
Lycosa avara Keys.
Trochosa avara Keys.
Uncommon Six Mile Creek March.
Lycosa ocreata Hentz.
Infrequent Six Mile Creek Fall Creek Sept. and Oct. Lycosa polita Em.
One specimen.
Lycosa scutulata Hentz.
One specimen.
Lycosa vulpina Em.
Two specimens.
Six Mile Creek in holes.
Lycosa crudelis nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
37.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Cephalothorax redbrown darker in eyeregion  with three light stripes the median one arising from between the second row of eyes as a fine line gradually widening and reaching the hind margin widest at dorsal groove the side stripes more than their width above the edge and scarcely as wide as the dorsal stripe  clypeus dark  rtiandibles nearly black  mouthparts black with tips light  sternum jet black with many black hairs  under side of coxae blackish with black hairs  femora yellowbrown  hinder ones with darker spots other joints yelloAVbrown hinder ones with darker rings on front ones the rings are scarcely apparent  legs with many black hairs palpi yellowbrown tip of last joint darker  abdomen black clothed with yellow pubescence  a black spearshaped mark reaching to the middle of the abdomen  on sides yellow and black hairs tend to form narrow lines  venter dark with 9 15 mm.
79mm.
breadth 56mm.
8lmra.
breadth 57mm.
39mm.
breadth 3 mm.
52mra.
tibia I BGmm.
6 mm.
tibia IV 47mm.
1892.
6Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV 14 mm.
breadth 49mm.
breadth 5 mm.
breadth 2'5mm.
tibia 1 33mm.
tibia IV 38mm.
black and yellow hairs Avhich form four yellow stripes  the two middle ones do not reach beyond the middle of the abdomen the others do  epigyuura reddish surrounded by black hairs  spinnerets brown  dorsal eyes much farther from each other than are the eyes of the second row from each other.
One specimen.
Lycosa immaculata nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
38.
Total length  Length of cephalothorax 6 mm.
Length of abdomen 8 mm.
3 mm.
4'9mm.
5 mm.
Cephalothorax redbrown with a narrow light stripe arising behind the second row of eyes and reaching the hind margin slightly wider in the middle  on the sides a broader indistinct light stripe  mandibles redbrown  mouthparts redbrown lighter at tips  cephalic half of sternum dark brown caudal half yellowish  legs yellowish coxse with black stripes  femora some brownish but without bands  no bands on other joints  thickly black haired  abdomen ma'' not be normal dark gray brownish toward the apex  when wet a faint black spearshaped outline on basal half venter lighter yellowish  epigynum small and reddish  spinnerets reddishyellow  palpi reddishyellow  first row of eyes about as wide as second.
One specimen.
Lycosa exitiosa nov. sp Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Small  is but 145 mm.
long.
Cephalothorax yellow or reddishyellow with a dark stripe each side leaving a narrow dorsal stripe of light which expands to surround the dorsal groove  the extreme margin also dark  a few small dark spots on the light side stripes  mandibles black with light hair  mouthparts brownish with black hair  sternum yellow or reddish with a faint darker central mark and with black hairs  legs yellow or reddish  the metatarsus and tarsus nearly black  other joints with dark marks and rings most distinct on the tibia  Plate I fig.
39. large S 17' mm.
lorax 95mm.
breadth 7' mm.
85mm.
breadth 5'4mm.
4'5mm breadth 4 mm.
8mm.
tibia I 7 mm.
 93mm.
tibia IV 8' mm.
under side of coxse with a large brownishblack spot  tarsus of jialpus black rest of palpus yellowish  abdomen dark brown above light beneath  venter spotted with many small black dots sometimes forming a band just behind the lung slits  these small black spots also on dorsum but not so prominent  also a spearshaped black outline on front of dorsum  spinnerets brownishyellow legs with many black spines.
Several specimens.
Lycosa oblonga nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
40.
Total length 9 20' mm.
Length of cephalothorax 9 mm.
breadth 6'8mm.
Length of abdomen 12 mm.
breadth 74mm.
Length of sternum 4'6mm.
breadth 3'5mm.
Length of femur I 7 mm.
tibial 5 mm.
Length of femur IV 7 mm.
tibia IV 5omm.
Cephalothorax dark brown with a nari'ow light stripe arising between the second row of eyes passing caudad widening to surround the dorsal groove then narrowing and reaching the hind margin.
A few light spots on the lower sides but not forming a stripe mandibles jet black mouthparts and sternum black legs and palpi black with yellowish markings on the femora partly rings and partly spots  on the tibia and patella a ring  other joints not distinctly marked.
Abdomen dark brown thickly covered with short goldenyellow pubescence on the sides and venter leaving many small spots of black hairs  above no markings  the hairs are brightest toward the apex of the abdomen  spinnerets dark brown  region of epigynum with many black hairs  a spot of yellow hairs on each lungplate  a band of black just caudad of the lungslits.
First row of eyes almost as wide as second  dorsal eyes about as those of second row and farther from each other than the latter  epigynum very small.
One specimen.
Pardosa lapidicina Em.
Common in gorges among shale.
Pardosa pallida Em.
Uncommon Six Mile Creek Fall Creek Sejt. Pardosa annulata nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
41.
Total length 9 5mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'4mm.
breadth 2 mm.
Length of abdomen 26mm.
breadth Iwmm.
Length of sternum l4mm.
breadth 1 mm.
Length of femur I 2 mm.
tibia I l4mm.
Leugth of femur IV 3 mm.
tibia IV 2 mm.
Cephalothorax with a broad reddishyellow stripe each side above this a broader dark stripe with irregular edges  exti'erae margin of cephalothorax somewhat darkened  on dorsum a reddishyellow stripe widest in front constricted at end of head and then tapering caudad  eyeregion black  clypeus reddishyellow  mandibles similar legs and palpi light reddishyellow ringed with black rings on femora not always complete  sternum yellowish often with a black stripe extending from the caudal end toward the middle  sometimes a few other black marks  on front of dorsum a triangular reddishyellow stripe not reaching quite to the middle of the abdomen  rest of dorsum is a brown network yellow between the meshes  the network looks like crosslines on the meson but at sides irregular  venter lighter  base yellowish beyond brownish  spinnerets yellowish front margin ofepigynum raised and dark colored the hind part also dark colored the intermediate part so light as to be hardly distinguishable.
Uncommon.
Pardosa venusta nov. sp.
Plate I figs.
42 t2a.
Length 9 58mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'7mm.
breadth l9mm.
Length of abdomen 3lmm.
breadth l'9mm.
Cephalothorax dark brown with a few indistinct yellowish spots near the sides eyeregion black  a broad central yellowish stripe contracted in front of dorsal groove then enlarging to surround the groove and again contracting behind it and reaching the hind margin  mandibles yellowish with a brownish spot near base  legs and palpi pale with darker rings sternum black  venter grayish  spinnerets light  sides and dorsum darker almost black with many pale yellowish spots a median basal stripe pointed behind not quite reaching the middle of dorsum yellowish  a spot each side of this at base yellowish  at the hind end of this stripe on each side two yellow spots the hind pair containing a black dot  behind this two pairs of similar' spots united on meson each containing a black dot  just above the spinnerets several narrow crossbands of yellow each side of the median markings there are other yellowish spots some quite large making the abdomen look like a Coelotes  epigynum quite small  in what I take to be a young  the abdomen is narrower but the markings the same.
Several specimens.
Pardosa brunnea Em.
Two specimens.
Pardosa gracilis nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
43.
Plate I fig.
50.
Total length 9 8' mm.
Length of cephalothorax 4 mm.
breadth 3 mm.
Length of abdomen 44mm.
breadth 2'9mm.
Length of sternum 2 mm.
breadth l'4mm.
Length of femur I S.onam.
tibial 25mni.
Length of femur IV 35mm.
tibia IV 3 mm.
Cephalothorax dark redbrown with a median light stripe gradually tapering behind  eyeregion blackish  mandibles and sternum redbrown  mouthparts a little lighter  legs and palpi redbrown with dark spots and rings more distinct on hind pair  abdomen above and below redbrown Avith light brown hair  markings not distinct  a spearshaped blackish outline on front part of dorsum  behind this a few distinct crosslines and some small darker spots each side epigynum reddish dorsal eyes almost as close to each other as to the eyes of second row.
In what I take to be the  the head is somewhat narrower at the cephalic end  length 7'5 mm.
 colors similar to 9 .
Not uncommon.
Pardosa albopatella Em.
Not uncommon Six Mile Creek.
Pardosa nigropalpis Em.
Several specimens.
Pardosa montana Em.
Two specimens probably this species.
Pardosa moesta nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
44.
Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Cephalothorax almost uniform reddishbrown somewhat lighter in the middle head nearly black  clypeus and mandibles yellowish  9 5'lmni.
25mm.
breadth 2' mm.
27mm.
breadth l9mm.
l'4mni.
lire ad th 1 mm.
21 mm.
tibia I romm.
29mm.
tibia IV 22nim.
sternum black  legs yellowish redder toward the tips no distinct rings but some faint darker markings on side of femora palpi yellowish  dorsum of abdomen nearly black a little reddish tinge  venter reddishbrown with a narrow black line each side and a broader black stripe in the middle very slight trace if any of lighter markings on the dorsum  dorsal eyes not as close together as in P. annulata or P. pallida.
One specimen.
Pardosa obsoleta nov. sp.
Plate III fig.
45.
Length 9 53mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'3mm.
breadth 2 mm.
Length of abdomen 3' mm.
breadth TQmm.
A larger specimen apparently the same species is 7 mm.
long.
Cephalothorax dark brown  eyeregion black  with a broad median rufous stripe much constricted in front of dorsal groove then enlarging to surround the groove and then becoming smaller  mandibles reddishyellow  sternum black  legs and palpi yellowish with darker incomplete rings these only apparent on the upper surface of the legs  epigynum reddish  venter grayish  sides and dorsum nearly black with faint apparently irregular blotches of yellowish  the basal stripe not seen  somewhat similar to P. montana but the legs paler and less distinctly ringed  all the markings are indistinct.
Two specimens.
Pirata piratica Clerck.
Uncommon.
Pirata insularis Em.
Not uncommon.
Pirata montana Em.
Uncommon.
Pirata montanoides nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
46.
Total length 9 37mm.
Length of cephalothorax 18 mm.
breadth l3mm.
Length of abdomen 19 mm.
breadth l3mra.
Length of sternum 82mm.
breadth 7mm.
Length of femur I 14 mm.
tibia I 1 mm.
Length of femur IV VI mm.
tibia IV 13mm.
Cephalothorax yellow with a dark stripe each side somewhat widest behind  eyes surrounded by black  a line each side reaching from dorsal groove toward the second row of eyes  mandibles sternum mouthparts legs and palpi yellow legs in one specimen with indistinct darker rings abdomen yellow above and below epigynum reddish  spinnerets yellow  a small black mark on middle of venter  above on dorsum many irregular black spots which leave a central yellow stripe divided by dark crosslines  very similar to P. montana cephalothorax a little narrower than in that species epigynum looks like two reddish spots.
Several specimens.
Pirata agilis nov. sp.
Plate I fig.
47.
Total lenofth  9 4'5mm.
22nmi.
breadth r6mni.
23mm.
breadth rimm.
1 mm.
breadth 8mm.
r5mm.
tibia I r2mm.
2 mm.
tibia IV l'7mm.
Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Length of sternum Length of femur I Length of femur IV Cephalothorax brown black around the eyes a yellowish stripe in middle widest at cephalic end gradually tapering to the caudal margin  this encloses two lines which extend each side from the dorsal groove to eyes of the second row  no side stripes  mandibles yellowish  sternum yellow with a dark margin  legs yellow with no markings distal joints darker  abdomen brownish above and below  spinnerets yellowish epigynum blackish  a light yellowish stripe above in middle of dorsum very faint at base and behind divided by several blackish crosslines  legs with fine black hairs and long redbrown spines  epigynum appears as a short transverse dark spot.
Several specimens Fall Creek March.
Pirata minuta Em.
One specimen.
Pirata exigua nov. sp.
Plate T fig.
48.
Total length 9 Length of cephalothorax l4mm.
Length of abdomen l6mm.
Length of femur I 1 mm.
Length of femur IV l'9mm.
Cephalothorax yellowish with a black stripe each side widest toward the caudal end  the extreme margins of cephalothorax also black  eyeregion black  median groove black from the cephalic end of which arises two stripes diverging toward the dorsal eyes man3 ram.
breadth 9mm.
breadth 9mm.
tibia I 8mm.
tibia IV 14mm.
dibles brownishyellow  legs and palpi yellowish some dark marks on femora  patella tipped with dark and tibia with two rings  sternum yellowish with many small black dots dorsum of abdomen black with many small yellow spots  venter yellowish with a few black lines and spots  epigynum reddish  spinnerets greenish  upper ones darker lobe of epigynum reddish sides of lobe darker.
One specimen Enfield Creek Sept. Aulonia aurantica Em.
One specimen.
Ocyale undata Hentz.
Common.
Dolomedes tenebrosus Hentz.
Common.
Dolomedes urinator Hentz.
One specimen.
Six Mile Creek Apr.
Dolomedes sexpunctatus Hentz.
Frequent on edge of streams Dolomedes scriptus Hentz.
Infrequent Fall Creek on edge of stream Sept. ATTID.
Phidippus mystaceus Hentz.
Common  in cases under stones in winter.
Phidippus albomaculatus Keys.
One specimen female.
Phidippus rauterbergii Peck.
A few immature specimens agree very well with the description Fall Creek.
Phidippus mccookii Peck.
Plate lY fig.
S3.
One male 10 mm.
long probably this species.
Phidippus tripunctatus Hentz.
Common.
Phidippus cardinalis Hentz.
Infrequent.
Phidippus rufus Hentz.
Common.
6 Plate v. figs.
27 and 27a.
9 X 3 mm.
breadth 49mra.
breadth 41 2 3.
77mm.
26mra.
29mm.
Phidippus minutus nov. sp Total length Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Leg formula Cephalothorax and abdomen black covered with golden yellow short hair and scattered long black and white hairs  clypeus whitish yellow  mandibles dark somewhat greenish iridescent  legs reddish with black rings  palpi yellowish with whitishyellow hairs  sternum darkred brown with light hairs  venter redbrown on sides with yellowish hairs a broad central light stripe limited each side by dark  epigynum and spinnerets reddish  dorsum with a band at base losing itself on the sides  another oblique band on side  two rows of three sjots on caudal part of dorsum white.
Second row of eyes not quite twice as far from dorsal as from lateral eyes  dorsal eyes very prominent  first pair of legs largest  tibia I with three strong black spines at tip  anterior coxse separated by almost width of labium  sternum less than one and onehalf times as long as broad.
One specimen.
Philseus princeps Peck.
Plate II fig.
32.
Three males which may belong to this species.
Philaeus militaris Hentz.
Abundant.
Dendryphantes capitatus Ilentz.
Abundant.
Dendryphantes elegans Ilentz.
One male specimen.
Dendryphantes flavus Peck. '
Not uncommon  under stones in cases during the winter.
Dendryphantes flavipedes Peek.
Three females quite similar to the males  epigynum as on Plate II fig.
33.
Dendryphantes insignis nov. sp.
Plate V figs.
28 and 28a.
Total length 9 46ram.
Length of cephalothorax Length of abdomen Leg formula I'Sram.
breadth l'3ram 29mm.
breadth I'Smm 4132.
Ceplialothorax red with white pubescence and loug scattered black hairs  eyes on a black band  clypeus with white hairs  falces reddish  palpi light with white hairs  legs yellowish with reddish at ends of joints front legs darker  sternum redbrown.
Abdomen whitishyellow with white pubescence and long black hairs  four redbrown spots each side on dorsum more or less connected across the middle by chevrons the basal ones connected by a curved line  a spot above apex redbrown  spinnerets and median stripe on venter redbrown  sides and rest of venter light  epigynum dark  sides with a faint trace of reddish oblique bands.
Sternum broad truncate in front  anterior coxse separated by more than width of labium  first legs much the stoutest first and second pairs of legs as in D.flavipedes.
Not uncommon.
Dendryphantes ornatus nov. sp.
Plate IV fig.
29 Plate V fig.
29.
Total length  4'9mm.
Length of cephalothorax l8mm.
breadth l'3mm.
Length of abdomen 3lmm.
breadth 2 mm.
Leg formula 4132.
Cephalothorax reddish  eyes on black band  with short white pubescence and long scattered white and black hairs  clypeus with white hairs mandibles reddish  sternum dark redbrown  legs and palpi yellowish the femora of first pair more redbrown  legs distinctly ringed with redbrown and with white pubescence and longer black hairs.
Abdomen whitishyellow with short whitish pubescence and long Avhite and a few black hairs  dorsum with redbrown bands more or less connected with an irregular central stripe basal band horseshoeshaped three others behind it more straight  upper side white  lower side with a broad redbrown stripe  venter with a broad median redbrown stripe constricted just in front of redbrown spinnerets and then widened to surround them.
First legs stoutest but not so large as in some species  anterior coxse separated by more than width of labium  sternum oblong  abdomen swollen with eggs.
One specimen.
Dendryphantes exiguus nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
30.
Total length 9 44mm.
Length of cephalothorax I'Smm.
breadth l3mm.
Length of abdomen 27mm.
breadth l7mm.
Leg formula 4132.
Cephalothorax reddish with reddish pubescence which has a faint greenish tinge more green close to the eyes on sides whiter  eyes on black spots  long black hairs scattered over surface  long white hairs on clypeus  mandibles reddish  palpi and legs yellowish with short white hairs and longer black ones  no bands on legs nor stripes  first pair more brownish sternum light red Avith white hairs.
Abdomen redbrown with pubescence like cephalothorax and scattered long black hairs  a white band at base and anterior sides  two rows of small white spots those behind elongated obliquely  a dark spot behind each light one  two white spots on each side  venter with white pubescence and long black hairs  spinnerets light  epigynum dark.
First legs stoutest  anterior coxiB separated by scarcely width of labium sternum more contracted in front than in D. insignis.
One specimen.
Attus palustris Peck.
Not rare.
Inlet Marsh May  Freeville Aug. Icius formosus nov. sp.
Plate V fig 31.
Total length  7 mm.
Length of cephalothorax 3 mm.
breadth 2 mm.
Length of abdomen 4lmni.
breadth l5mm.
Leg formula 1432.
Cephalothorax dark redbrown  eyeregion black bordered behind by a white band  some patches of white near eyes and a narrow stripe just above lower margin  rest of cephalothorax probably covered with yellowish nearly hyaline short hairs mandibles dark redbrown  palpi first legs and sternum similar  other coxe yellow  femora nearly black  other joints yellowish or reddish  many strong spines on upper side of all femora.
Abdomen black above with a basal white band of hairs and several white spots along each side rest probably covered with yellowish hyaline hairs like cephalothorax  venter gray with white hairs and a central dark stripe.
Anterior coxae not separated by width of labium  posterior coxse touching  second eyes half way between dorsal and lateral eyes  first legs longest and strongest  eyeregion equally wide in front and behind  cephalothorax widest at middle  spinnerets black.
One specimen.
Icius albovittatus Keys.
Several males  not Wala albovittata Keys.
Icius palmarum Hentz.
One male  Fall Creek Aug Icius mitratus Hentz.
Not uncommon in cases on evergreen trees.
Fall Creek Oct.  Six Mile Creek Sept. Icius hartii Em.
1892.
Plate V fig.
32.
Icius moestus nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
33.
Length  51 mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'.3mm.
breadth l8mm.
Length of abdomen 2'8ram.
breadth l5mm.
Cephalothorax reddioh  eyes connected by a black stripe  whole cephalothorax probably clothed with white hairs  mandibles and mouthparts redbrown  sternum nearly black  venter with a broad reddish median stripe and light each side clothed with white hairs  all except front coxse yellow  these are reddish femur I reddish nearly black above  rest of leg I reddish tarsus jale  base of patella pale  basal half of femora II III and IV yellow like coxse rest dark redbrown  patella and tibia a little lighter metatarsus and tarsus pale the former with tip redbrown  claw blackish.
Abdomen dark reddish above and on sides  badly rubbed  with a short basal whitish band  traces of yellowish spots on dorsum  two pairs near the apex are largest forming incomplete chevrons  in front of them the spots more median.
First leg much the stoutest  head projecting over Iase of mandibles mandibles oblique  palpi redbrown  three pairs of large spines near tip of tibia I  and one pair at middle and one at tip of metatarsus I.
One specimen.
Icius elegans Keys.
One young specimen probably this species Burdick's Glen Sept. Eris octavus Hentz.
One specimen.
Eris nervosus Peck.
One specimen.
Hasarius hoyi Peck.
One young specimen.
Habrocestum latens nov. sp.
Plate V fig.
34.
Total length 9 5 mm.
Length of cephalothorax 2'5mm.
breadth 9mm.
Length of abdomen 2'6mm.
breadth I'Smra.
Cephalothorax yellow brown  eyeregion covered with black indented behind by the yellowbrown with long black hairs a few reddish hairs aronnd eyes clypeus with sonie long white hairs legs yellowish without markings some black hairs and some shorter colored ones often red or yellowish  sternum nearly white with edges dark  mouthparts coxse and under side of femora nearly white  dorsum of abdomen very densely covered with somewhat long colored hairs red goldenyellow and white with three oblique elongate spots of black each side  long black hairs scattered over dorsum  venter dark gray with white hairs  epigynum dark anterior coxse separated by width of labium  sternum oblong pointed behind  first leg stoutest.
Not uncommon.
Habrocestum coecatum Hentz.
Uncommon males  the spine on the tarsus of the palpus is larger and longer than in Peckham's figure.
Habrocestum peregrinum Peck.
Not uncommon  Fall Creek Sept. Habrocestum splendens Peck.
Frequent Fall Creek Aug. and Sept. Buttermilk Creek.
Saitis pulex Hentz.
Common.
Astia vittata Hentz.
Abundant.
Astia vittata var.
niger Peck.
One specimen.
Epiblemum scenicum Clerck.
Common.
Admestina wheelerii Peck.
One female which is probably this species.
Total length 9 4'3mm.
Length of cephalothorax l4ram.
breadth Omm.
Length of abdomen 29mm.
breadth l4mm.
Cephalothorax redbrown nearly black on head with white hairs a few rusty hairs in the band connecting eyes  legs pale yellowish with black marks and rings  mandibles dark brown  abdomen gray with silvery spots and a broad median dark brown serrated stripe several small brown spots each side spinnerets project beyond the end of abdomen  pale above and brown beneath a brown stripe on each lower side venter with a few small brown spots mixed in with the silvery  epigynum brown  sternum brown with white hairs  abdomen with white hairs  cephalothorax low quadrangle of eyes wider behind  second row of eyes half way between lateral and dorsal eyes  anterior M. E. very large  head overhanging the mandibles  abdomen swollen witli eggs  broadest behind the middle  anterior coxai nearly touching posterior coxte touching sternum widest between coxse II and III legs short first pair stoutest epigynum as figured on Plate II fig.
34.
One specimen.
Marptusa familiaris Hentz.
Common.
Marptusa rupicola Hentz.
Plate IV figs.
49 and 49a.
Total length 9 104mm.
Length of cephalothorax 45mm.
breadth 35mm.
Length of abdomen 6 mm.
breadth 3 mm.
Male about same size abdomen a little narrower.
Cephalothorax redbrown  eyeregion black  hinder sides brownish and a brownish angular crossband behind leaving only a yellowbrown spot on hind margin  mandibles redbrown  first leg yellowbrown much darker at ends of joints other legs more yellowish with indistinct darker rings  sternum yellowish  anterior coxre separated posterior ones touching  venter gray or yellowish  in female with a faint darker median stripe  epigynum reddish as is also the region of the male openings  spinnerets light dorsum and sides dark gray with a light central stripe the posterior part of which is made up of chevrons and contains a more or less distinct serrated narrow gray stripe  other light spots and lines are mixed in with the gray on the sides especially in the   body covered with white hairs a cluster of stiff black bristles just below and behind the lateral eyes.
Cephalothorax broad and low  eyeregion a little broader in front than behind more so in  than in 9  dorsal eyes look more dorsad than in 31. familiaris.
Resembles the dry cliffs on which it is found  in Fall Creek and Six Mile Creek  three specimens  the first pair of legs of the  is very stout and long  patella and tibia I measuring 55 mm.
Homalattus cyaneus Hentz.
One specimen.
 Neon nellii Peck.
Not uncommon under leaves in gorges.
In winter often attached to a little case.
Zygoballus bettini Peck.
Several specimens.
Synemosyna formica Hentz.
Two specimens Six Mile Creek and Fall Creek.
Synageles pioata Hentz.
One specimen.
Explanation of Plates.
Plate I.
Fig.
39 Lycosa exitiosa  fig.
4 1  Pardosa annulata  fig.
42 Pardosa venusta fig.
43 Pardosa gracilis  fig.
46 Pirata montanoides  fig.
47 Pirata agilis  fig.
48 Pirata exigua fig.
50 Pardosa gracilis  fig.
51 Micaria formicoides  fig.
52 Thargalia agilis fig.
53 Thargalia perplexa  fig.
54 Thargalia Jallax fig.
55 Prosthesima rufula  fig.
56 Prosthesima frigida fig.
57 Prosthesima hlanda fig.
58 Prosthesima immaculata  fig.
59 Gtiaphosa humilis  fig.
60 Drassus humilis fig.
61 Chtbiona obesa  fig.
62 Cluhiona tibialis fig.
63 Clubiona crassipalpis  fig.
64 Clubiona pygmea  fig.
65 Cluhiona abbotti fig.
66 Clubiona lenta  fig.
67 Phrurolithus viinutus  fig.
68 Agrceca oniata fig.
70 Phrurolithus palustris  fig.
71 Cyhceus giganteus fig.
72 Ccelotes fidelis  fig.
74 Ccelotes altilis  fig.
76 Cicnrina creber  fig.
77 Gicurina placida fig.
78 Dictyna foxii  fig.
79 Dictyna maxima fig.
81 Dictyna decorata fig.
82 Dictyna dubia.
Plate II.
Fig.
14 Tmeticus obscurus  fig.
17 Tmeticus rusticus fig.
24 Tmeticus mimitus  fig.
27 Microneta minutissima  fig.
28 Linyphia variabilis fig.
29 Diplostyla pallida  fig.
30 Lycosa siinilis  fig.
32 Philceus princeps  fig.
33 Dendryphantes Jiavipedes  fig.
34 Admestina wheeleri  fig.
37 Misximena joliata  fig.
38 Linyphia conferta  fig.
39 Philodromus viinusculus  fig.
40 Philodromus exilis  fig.
41 Bathyphaites decorata fig.
45 Bathyphantes tristis  fig.
47 Microneta palustris  fig.
48 Microneta luteola  fig.
50 Microneta complicata  fig.
52 Microneta gigantea  fig.
53 Microneta distincta fig.
54 Ceratinella jlacida  fig.
55 Ceratinella formosa  fig.
56 Ceratinella anmdipes  fig.
57.
Ceratinella pygmea fig.
58 Ceratinella maesta  fig.
60 Ceratinella mhiuta  fig.
65 Bathyphantes unimaculata  fig.
67 Xysticus lentus.
Plate III.
Fig.
1 Xysticus stomachosus  fig.
3 Xysticus ferocnlus  fig.
4 Xysticus hrunnens  fig.
5 Xysticus cnuhlis fig.
6 Xysticus tiansversus  fig.
7 Xysticus gulosus  fig.
8 Xysticus nervosus  fig.
9 Xysticus foymosus  fig.
10 Xysticus quadrilineatus  fig.
11 Oxyptila georgiana  fig.
12 Oxyptila conspurcata  fig.
13 Coriarachne versicolor  fig.
15 Misumena rosea  fig.
17 Misumena Joliata  fig.
18 Jiuncinia aleatorius  fig.
19 Philodromus prcelustris  fig.
20 Philodromus signifer  fig.
21 Philodromus gracilis  fig.
22 Philodromus unicolor  fig.
23 Philodromus vulgaris fig.
24 Philodromus oruatus fig.
25 Philodromus placidus  fig.
26 Philodromus riifus  fig.
35 Lycosa rufiventris  fig.
36 Lycosa humilis fig.
37 Lycosa crudelis fig.
40.
Lycosa oblonga  fig.
44 Pardosa mcesta  fig.
45 Pardosa obsoleta  fig.
86 Neophanes pallidus  fig.
87 Neophanes pallidus variety  fig.
89 Xysticus distinctus.
Plate IV.
Fig.
1 Lophocarenum tristis  fig.
2 Lophocarenum unimaculatum fig.
3 Lophocarenum castaneum  fig.
4 Lophocarenum miniatum  fig.
5 Lophocarenum venustum fig.
6 Lophocarenum parvum  fig.
9 Lophocarenum erigonoides  fig.
8 Lophocarenum crenatoideum  fig.
10 Lophocarenum formosum  fig.
11 Lophocarenum arvensis  fig.
12 Lophocarenum longior  fig.
13 Tmeticus unicorn fig.
15 Tmeticus flaveolus  fig.
16 Tmeticus luxuosus  fig.
18 Tmeticus humilis fig.
19 Tmeticus mcestus  fig.
20 Tmeticus dehilis fig.
21 Tmeticus palustris  fig.
22 Tmeticus distinctus  fig.
23 Tmeticus maculatus  fig.
26 Bathyphantes complicata  fig.
29 Dendryphantes ornatus  fig.
49 Marptusa rupicola  fig.
60 Ceratinellaminuta fig.
69 Prosthesima minima fig.
73 Coelotes longitarsus  fig.
74 Coelotes altilis  fig.
79 Dictyna maxima fig.
81 Dictyna decorata fig.
83 Phidippus McCookii  fig.
84 Xysticus nervosus.
Plate V. Fig.
7 Lophocarenum exiguum  fig.
10 Lophocarenum formosum  fig.
27 Phidippus minatus  fig.
28 Dendryphantes insignis  fig.
29 Dendryphantes ornatus fig.
30 Dendryphantes exiguus  fig.
31 Jems formosus upper fig.
 Diplostyla alboventris lower fig.
 fig.
32 7cis hartii  fig.
33 Jctus mcesttis fig.
34 Hahrocestum latens  fig.
35 Cornicularia formosa  fig.
36 Cornicularia 2'lacida  fig.
38 Lycosa immaculata  fig.
42 Bathyphantes pallida  g.
43 Theridium kentuchyense  fig.
44.
Tmeticus gnavus  fig.
46 Microneta latens fig.
49 Microneta flaveola  fig.
51 Microneta frontata  fig.
58 Ceratinella mmsta  fig.
59 Ceratinella bulbosa  rig.
61 Ceratinella similis  fig.
63 Ceratinopsis frontatus  fig.
64 Grammonota vennsta  fig.
66.
Bathyphantes inornata  fig.
71 Cybceusgiganteus  fig.
72 Ccelotes fidelis  fig.
85 Philodromus minutus  fig.
88 Tetragnatha pallida.
