DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW SUBGENUS AND NEW SPECIES OF ARVICOLINE RODENTS FROM BRITISH COLUMBIA AND WASHINGTON.
BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS.
Tetramerodon siibgen.
nov.
Type Arvicola  Tetraiifrodoii tchamcrtis Rlioads sp.
nov. Victoria B. C. Sahgeneiic characters.
 Dentition as in the subgenus Myuomes Rafinesque' as restricted by Dr. CouesMon.
N. Ainer.
Rodentia 1877 p. 153 but differing therefrom in the middle upper mohir lacking a OSterointernal trianglar loop.
This tooth is composed of an anterior loop a closed anteroextei'ior triangle a closed median inner triangle and a posteroexterior triangle.
Other characters as in Mynomes
See below dentition of A. borealis Fig.
1.
This section of the genus Arvlcola includes a larger number of species than any other whereas typical Mynomess restricted to very few.
Among those which class under Telramerodon may be mentioned A. xatdJiogiiathus chvoiorrhinus borealis loiuicaiidus altieolas mogollonensls mordax nanus macropus pauperrinius townsendi tetramerus 1. c.  edax pJueus and operarius.
Of Mynomese have A. pemisylvanicus terrcenovoi aztecus and drummondii f Prof. Baird characterized the subgenus Hemiotomys  Myonomes of Coues as having the middle  upper molar with five closed triangles the last two sometimes subconfiuent taking no notice of the species then known as edax town send i xantJiognathas and borealis in which to a greater or less degree the posterior triangle shows no indication of the subdivision seen in 4.
pennsylvanicus.
The fourtriangled species greatly outnumber those which possess five and it is fully in accord with the system that they should be either separated subgenerically from Alynomes or that this subgenus be recharacterized.
1 From Teframees  ouvpiivtt'd iiud Odoiis  toith.
'' Dr. Coues' reasons for changing Ratiuesqiie's original spelling to Myoiiones are insufficient.
If retained at all it must remain Mynomes
1894.
NATHRAL SCIENCES OF PHIIADELPHIA.
283 If the latter course be adopted we still have an inexact diagnosis to accommodate the three or four exceptional species which develop the fifth triangle and the name 3Iijiwme. based by Rafinesque on a fivetriaugled species becomes inapplicable.
On this account it seems to me quite consistent with the exact subdivision of the other members of the genus Arvkola as well as necessary that the subgenus Tefnonerodon be adopted.
Arvicola Tetrainerodon tetramerus sp.
nov.
Type Xo.
327 ad.   Coll.
of S. X. Ehoads Beacon Hill Park Victoria British Columbia Mav 19 1892.
Coll.
by S. X. R. Desen'ption.
 Size medium about the same as A. peinsilvcmicus.
Tail rather long.
Color above grizzled blackishbrown beneath clear ash.
Feet grayishbrown.
Tail bicolor matching corresponding surfaces of body wellhaired and penicillate.
Dentition as in Minovie. but lacking the posterior fifth section of middle upjer molar typical of that subgenus.
Measurements of type.
 Total length 170 mm tail vertebrae 50 hind foot 23.
Average of five adults  Total 175 tail 48 foot 22.
Skull  Total length 265 basilar length 24 zygomatic breadth 15 length of nasals 75 incisors to postpalatal notch 142 interorbital constriction 34 length of mandible 16 width of mandible 85.
Ten specimens of this species were taken in the suburbs of Victoria in the dry grassy woods of Beacon Hill Park overlooking the Strait of Fuca.
They most nearly resemble townsendi from Puget Sound in essential characters.
Compared with toivnseiidi the Victoria voles may be readily distinguished by their much smaller size blacker coloration above the greater relative width of the interorbital region the supraorbital ridges never meeting medially as in old towii.tendl and the posterior margins of the frontals being rounded and but slightly encroaching upon the parietals.
This species differs essentially from A. occidentalis and A. californicus as defined by Baird in its lack of red or yellow tints.
From A. montaiius Peale fide Baird tetramerus differs in the greater relative length between the upper molars and incisors also in the posterior upper molar having four outer salient angles instead of three.
Prof. Baird states there is a great similarity between the colors of montanns and edax and that the former is grayer than townsendi.
In tetramerus the colors are much darker.
Evotomys pygmseus sp.
nov.
Type Xo.
247 ad.
9 Wl of S. N. Rhoads montli of Xisqually Eiver Pierce Co. Wasliington.
Col. by S. N. R. Description.
 Size smallest of any described species of the genus.
Color above a rusty gray lighter than ccqjperi dai'keit along the top of head and back  sides and belly muddy ashgray.
Margins of ears and upper third of tail sooty.
Feet light gray.
Skull short and wide with relatively wide and flaring zygoma and brain case and broad interorbital region.
The audital bulUie are very much inflated spheroidal separated medially by less than 1 mm.
 their greatest transverse diameter being only 1 mm.
less than the longitudinal.
The dentition is intermediate between that of E. orcideiitalis and JE.
californium with the anterior lower molar of califomicus and the posterior upper molar of occidentalls.
In the latter case however the two anterior lateral triangles are completely closed in jyygmmiis the second not connecting with the third as figured by Dr. Merriam for occidentalis.
The nasals do not ieach the posterior points of the premaxillai'ies by li mm.
MeasnremenU.
 Total length 120 mm tail vertebrse 34 hind foot 16.
Skull  Total length 21  lasilar length 18'4 zygomatic width 12 length of nasals 6 incisors to postpalatal notch 9 interorbital constriction 41  length of mandible 12.
The single specimen on which I have based the above diagnosis is the only one of the genus secured by me in the Pacific coast district of the northwest.
It was captured under a log in the dense spruce forest which covers the blufi' overlooking Puget Sound at the mouth of the Nisqually River.
It is fully adult with wellworn teeth.
This species may be known externally from its nearest geographic congeners by its small size.
In color it is much lighter than occidentalis and from the description even paler than californicus.
Evotomys gapperi saturatus sulwp.
nov.
Type No.
483 ad.
9. foil of S. N. Rhoads Nelson British C'oluinbia Aug. 17 1892.
Col. by S. N. R. Description.
 Size and proportions of E. gapperi but much darker the  red of back being dark chestnut the sides and belly dark grayishplumbeous without ochraceous tints of gapperi.
The upper half of tail sooty black strongly defined against gray of lower half.
Compared with that of gapperi the skull is relatively narrower the nasals longer the nasal premaxillary processes reach' N. Amer.
Fau. No.
4 Plate II Figs.
1 and 2.
1894.
NATURAI SCIENCES OF PHILADEIPHIA.
285 ing considerably behind base of nasals the audital bullae are also narrower elonuate and depressed.
The dentition does not ditter from that of gapperi but the other characters of the skull of type as above defined show such considerable differences from gapperi of eastern Canada that the question of its specific value is yet an open one.
Measurements.
 Total length 141 mm tail vertebrre 41 hind foot 19.
Skull Total length 23o zygomatic width 121 length of nasals 65 incisors to postpalatal notch 10 interorbital constriction 42 length of mandible 182 width of mandible r2.
One female the type was trapped on the banks of a small stream flowing into Kootenai Lake in the town limits of Nelson in the Selkirk Mountains.
Two others were taken in the Rocky jNIouutains at Field on the banks of the Kicking Horse River.
Evotomys gapperil daicsoiii Merriam the west Arctic representative differs from saturatus in the opposite light phase of coloration a parallel case to that exhibited by the Hudsonian Chickadees Paras hudsonicKS P. h. stoneyi and P. h. columbianus.
Notes on Boreal Arvicolas of Uncertain Status.
Arvicola borealis Richardson.
Rich. Zool.
.Tour. No.
12 iss .517  Faun.
Bor.
Anur. I 1839.
127.
And.
and Bach. Quad N.
Amer. 1854 134.
Since the publication of the Monograph of North American Rodentia this species has been classed on the authority of Dr. Coues as a subspecies of Arvicola j3ennsylvanicus.
Several specimens from the material examined by Dr. Coues in the preparation of his monograph of the Arvicoliiue were subsequently presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences.
Among them I find two skins with skulls and one specimen in alcohol enumerated in Dr. Coues' tabulated lists of Arctic Arvicolas which after a careful study of Richardson's two descriptions of A. borealis I am convinced should be referred to that species.
The characters exhibited by these specimens are those of an animal quite distinct from pennsylvanicus and justify restoring borealis to the full specific rank originally given it.
Audubon and Bachman sup.
cit.
have clearly restated the external characters of this vole from a personal examination of Richardson's types.
Its cranial characters remain undefined and may be described as follow   286 1894.
Arvicola borealis.
Toimtype No.
1908 ad.
9 Coll.
of Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila.
No.
S48 Sm.
Inst.
 vid.
Cones N. A.
Eod. p. 206 t. li.
Fort Anderson North of Great Bear Lake no date E. McFarlane Collector.
Skidl.
 Remarkably angular shallow and flattened its anterior jugal breadth exceeding the squamosal much as in Synaptomys.
Posterior ends of frontals produced in ii long slender strapshaped process beginning just behind the interorbital constriction between the projecting anterior corners of the squamosal bones and terminating in a dovetailed Fig.
I. Skull and molar teeth of process between the acutely pointAiz'icola dorcais Rk'h.
 i  i i    TT.
r.fi 1 e  4  T  ed and extended anterior corners a.
Upper pronle ot cranium.
 .
Lett mandibular series.
c. Left maxillary of the parietals.
Interorbital 
constriction narrow acutely compressed its single median ridge depressed below the frontal plane.
Audital bulhe subtriangular depressed long and narrow.
Dentition as given 1. c. for the subgenus Tetramerodon of which with A. xanthogiiafhus and A. chrotorrhinus it forms a typical representative in the lack of any attempt at a posterior inner fold or angle in the middle upper molar.
The anterior trefoil of the first lower molar is less deeply indented than in any Arvicola I have examined.
The mandibles present no peculiar characters.
An incipient groove can be detected almost evenly dividing the face of each upper incisor.
Arvicola drummoudi Aud.
and Bach.
Five specimens of meadow mice three taken on the shores of Lac La Hache B.
C and two from the valley of the Kicking Horse River at Field B.
C I had neviously described in manuscript as new under the name Arvicola Mynomesicrocephalus.
The description of A. driimmondi Aud.
and Bach. Quad.
N.
Anier. 1854 166 I have since found to correspond so closely in every particular with the characters of these specimens it seems far preferable to make tiiem the basis of a full restoration of driimAbout one and onehalf times natural size.
mondi to a place in nomeuclature.
It may lie stated that Richardsou's A. novebonicenls Raf.
 the name under which that author described the type of flntmmondi was said by him to have come from the dry uphmds of tlie Rocky Mountains inhabited by A.
.noithognathus.
This woukl indicate a locality far north of that from which ray specimens came also a less aquatic environment and a somewhat ditierent faunal region.
Audubon and Bachman give  ' Valleys of the Rocky Mountains as the habitat of dnonmondi.
More complete collections from the whole length of the intermediate country may show that the Lac La Hache animal is separable from the northern one  in such an event the name microcephahis may still be applicable to it.
Arvicola Mynomesrummondi.
Topotype Xo.
418 arl.
.
Coll.
of S. X. Elioads Lac La llacbe B. Columbia Juuc 30th 1892.
Vol.
y S. N. E. Description.
 Size considerably less than that of A. pennsijlvanicus ears moderate  tail short and scantily haired  skull small highly arched compressed and elongate the orbits much narrowed liy the compression of the zygoma  eyes very small as in Pitymys  feet as originally described by Richardson.
Teeth of typical Mynomeshe posterointernal section of middle upper molars as large as its opposing outer triangle.
Color above grizzled blackbrown beneath a clear hoary plumbeous lacking the muddy wash mentioned by Aud.
and Bach.
Tail sooty above grayer beneath.
Measurements.
 Total length 155 mm tail vertebrae 40 hind foot 20 average of four adults  Total 153  tail 39 foot 19.
Skull  Total length 242  Jiasilar length 22  zygomatic width 135 length of nasals 66 incisor to postpalatal notch 122 interorbiial constriction 4  length of mandible 148 width of mandible 82.
This species resembles A. nanus but its possession of a five triangled middle upper molar distinguishes it from that species which as Dr. Merriam expressly states has but four triangles.
The two specimens from Field show no differences from the one above described.
Incidental to this rather cursory study of the principal group of North American Arvicolince it is worthy of mention that the large vole captured by Mr. Drummond  at the foot of the Rocky Moun' Merriam N. Amer.
Fau. No.
5 1891 63. tains and described minutely by Richardson Fan.
Bor.
Amer.
 1829 120 under caption of Arvicola riparins Ord
 is almost certainly a member of the genus Aidaeomijs. A comparison of the description of this animal given by Richardson and that given by Audulon and Bachman' when they renamed it A. richirdsoni with my type of Aviacomys arvicoloides leaves very little room for doubt that the two are generically the same.
Their specific differences consist in the much longer tail of arvlcololde its tail also being black above and nearly unicolor its feet black and the mouth and chops grayishbrown like the surrounding parts.
An examination of Richardson's introductory notice of Mr. Drummond's travels coupled with the statement that the specimen was taken in summer fix the type locality of A. richardtionl within say fifty milffe of Athabasca Pass in the Rocky Mountains among the foothills traversed by the Columbia Portage trail connecting the head waters of the Athabasca Saskatchewan and Columbia Rivers in latitude 53.
4.
arvicoloides was taken somewhat east of the dividing ridge of the Cascade Mountains in latitude 47.
Should the correctness of this interpretation be proved Drummond's specimen should stand as Axdacomys richardsonl Dekay.
  Ehoads Amer.
Nat. Feb. 1894 182. '
Quad.
N.
Amer. Ill 1853 163. s N. Y.
Zool. I 1842.
91.
October 2.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Fiftyfour persons present.
A paper entitled A proposed Classification of the Fossorial Hymenoptera of North America by William J.
Fox was presented for publication.
October 9.
Mr. Useljia C. Smith in the Chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
The deaths of Joseph Hyrtl and Oliver Wendell Holmes M.D. correspondents were announced.
A paper entitled ' ' A Study of the Systematic and Geographical Distribution of the Decapod Family Atyidoc Kingsley by Dr. A. Ortmann was presented for publicatiou.
October 16.
Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair.
Sixtysix persons present.
A paper entitled  New Species of Fungi from various Localities by J.
B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart was presented for publication.
Dlaoluea Tliomasll Rex.
 Du.
Geo.
A. Rex presented specimens of Diachcea Thomasii a species of Jtlyxomycetes recently described by him and commented upon the variations of the species and its relations to the adjoining genera.
The specimen's differed in some respects from the original specimens from which the diagnostic description had been drawn making it advisable to supplement that description.
The new specimens were a part of some recent gatherings made by Ir.
Lancaster Thomas at the original locality for the species at Cranberry N. C in July and August of this jear.
The sporangia of the type specimens were frequently grouped in clusters but with rare exceptions they grew upon separate stipes.
20 In the receut gatherings however the sporangia show a reniarkalile tendency to aggregation into clumps of from twelve to twenty the stipes growing together to form a thick compound stipe surmounted by the densely clustered sporangia.
In some cases these are distorted by crowding having their adjoining walls grown together constituting stipitate iethalia.
The clustered sporangia have usually a purplish metallic lustre rather than the silver or bronze lustre of the single forms.
The capillitium differs from the type only in the presence of au extraordinary number of snudl darkviolet colored bulbous thickeniugs occurring upon the threads in their course similar to those found in the capillitium of certain species of DUhpnimii and Ghoiidrioderiiia.
These thickenings are ellipsoidal turbinate or conical in shape and occur more frequently near the ends of the threads.
The speaker thought that these peculiar tliickenings were of special interest on account of their bearing upon the relative position of the genus DiacJuen in the systematic classification of the JNIyxomycetes.
As they are almost exclusively found in certain species of the Didymiaceie and the single species of the genus Sjniinafla this species at least of the genus Diaclura would seem to be connected with the CalcareiL' by good structural characters other than the mere existence of granules of lime in the stipes and columellas of the sporangia.
The bulbous thickenings were also found in the capillitium of the type specimens but not conspicuously or to a greater extent tlian they are sometimes found in the other species of Dlarhaa.
The speaker concluded that the genus DiacJicca was properly associated with the Order Didymiaceie including the genus Sjorm notwithstanding its points of resemblance to the genus Lamproderma suggesting its possibly closer relationship to the Order Stemonitacea'.
The differences between the present gatherings and the former ones were probably due to climatic causes the excessive rainfall and great atmospheric humidity prevailing in the North Carolina mountains during July and tiie early part of August of the present year causing an exuberant development of plasmodium wliich resulted in a growtli of unusually aggregated and icthalioid forms October 28.
Dr. 0.
N. Tkirck in the Chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
A paper entitled Notes on the Mammals of Monroe and Pike Counties Pennsylvania by Samuel N. Rhoads was presented for ublication.
The death of F. Oden Horstmann a member was announced.
1894.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
291 October 30.
Mk.
Charles P. Perot in the Chair.
Thiit'three persons present.
Thedeath of William Ik.
Lejee a menler was announced A paper entitled On a Collection of Batrachia and Reptilia from the Island of Hawaii by Edw.
I.
Cope was presented for publication.
Mr. Horace Binder was elected a member.
The following were ordered to be printed 
