ON THE STATUS OF THE NAMES Aplysia AND Tethys
BY HENRY A PILSBRY.
In the course of my studies on the  Sea Hares preliminary to the preparation of a monograph of this group of Teotibranch Mollusks for the Manual of Conchology my attention was early forced to the fact that in Linnaeus' Tenth Edition of the Systema Naturae the genus Tethysas proposed for the animal now known as Aphjsia and included nothing else.
Moreover by the terms of the generic diagnosis such creatures as that known as Tethysn modern times are excluded.
In the Twelfth Edition of the Systema Tethyss given a completely different meaning  and the new term Aphjsia  Laplysia is brought forward to include the species of tbe earlier Tethys
This laterusage has been accepted by zoologists until the present day.
The question then arises shall we apply to Linnaeus himself the canons of nomenclature which would be rigorously enforced were the claims of his successors in question 
It is with a view to obtaining the opinions of those who are expert in these matters that we present below a full synopsis of the literature bearing upon the questions at issue.
The facts in this case have doubtless been fully unearthed by many investigators but probably believing it best to  let sleeping dogs rest no one 1 has to my knowledge seriously raised the questions to which I desire now to direct attention.
The genus Tethysas founded by Linne in the tenth edition of the Systema Naturae p. 653 for two species thus  254.
Tethys
I 'orpus oblougum bilabiarum  corpusculo medio cartilagineo oblougo.
Tentacula duo cuneiforma.
Foramina duo spirantia. 
limacina 1.
T. auriculis quatuor
Habitat in Oceano Aastrali.
1 ExceptE.
Leigh who in Mai.
Unters.
I. p. 33 in Semper's Keisen 2ter Theil has made the bald statement that Linnaeus' earlier Tethysas an Aplysia but who continues to use Tethysor the Nudibranch.
Corpus oblongum antiee quasi 4 auriculis acutis instructum. 
leporina.
2.
T. corpore rubro margine membranaceo auriculis duobus.
a Bund.
pise.
1. p. 520.
Lepus mariuus.
b Bell aquat.
437.
Lepus mariuus.
c Gesn.
aquat.
475.
Lepus mariuus.
Aldr.
exsangu.
78.
Lepus mariuus 1.
Habitat in M. Mediterraneo.
Conf.
Column aqu.
t. 26 f. 2 3.
It will be noticed that the above description of limadna contains nothing diagnostic of a species though the genus is clearly indicated.
As Linne gives us no reference to earlier writers we have absolutely no means of learning what Teihys limaciria is and the name must be dropped.
In the case of leporina Linne gives ample references to the sources whence his information was derived.
These we analyze as follows a Gulielmi Rondeletii etc. Libri de Piscibus Marinis etc.
1554 Liber xvii.
p. 520 figures an Aplysia which seems to be the A. fasciata of authors for it lacks the conspicuous shellforamen of depilans and the broadly united parapodia of punctata b La Nature  diversity des poissons avec leurs pourtraicts represented au plus pres du naturel par Pierre Belon du Mans Paris 1555 p. 437 seems to be an undeterminable species of  Lievre Marin from the Cyclades known to Belon through the ancient authors only c Conradi Gesneri medici Tigurini Historic Animalium Liber III I. qui est de Piscium  Aquatilium Animantium natura 1558 p. 561 Linne wrongly gives 475 as the page.
A reversed copy of Rondelet's figure is given Gesner's information being wholly second hand d Ulyssis Aldrovandi etc. De Reliquis Animalibus exanguibus libri quatuor post mortem eius editi Nempe De Mollibus Crustaceis Testaceis et Zoophytis 1606 De Mollibus liber I p. 78.
In this work which is purely a compilation all of Rondelet's figures again do service and Linnaeus' reference will naturally be confined to the first of these.
Aldrovandus also figures p. 82 a couple of species of Doris as  Lepori
marini alia species and p. 83 two other figures possibly representing Aclesia
Linne's  conf.
Columna  refers us to figures of the Nudibranch commonly known as Tethysimbria but this figure is merely cited for comparison not as a representation of the species T. leporina.
It would therefore seem that Linne originally intended Tethysor the Aplysia species his generic diagnosis and references unmistakably indicating the  Lepus inarinus  of the early zoological renaissance authors.
In the Twelfth Edition of the Systema p. 1089 Linne wholly alters the diagnosis of Tetliys as follows 289.
Tethys
Corpus liberum oblongiusculum carnosum apodum.
Os proboseide terminal e cylindrica sub labis explicate.
Foramina 2 ad latis colli sinistrum. 
leporin.
1.
T. labro ciliato.
f Column aquat.
27. t. 26.
Lepus inarinus major.
Rondel pise.
526.
Leporis marini tertia species.
Habitat in Mari Mediterraneo.
fimbria.
2.
T. labro crenulato.
Bohads.
mar.
54 t. 5.
.
1 2.
Fimbria.
Habitat in mari adritico.
Videtur  prazcedenti distincti species.'
All of these references belong to the one Mediterranean species see Bergh in Semper's Reisen 2ter Theil ii p. 348 known as Tethysimbria or leporina.
1 On page 1082 of the Twelfth Edition the new genus Aplysia or Laphsia 2 is proposed thus  283.
Laplyssia.
Corpus repens obvelatum membranis reflexis.
 'lypeo dorsali membranaceo pulmones obtegente.
Foramen laterale dextrum pro genitalibus.
Amis supra extremitatem dorsi.
1 The specific name of this Nudibranch must stand fimbria Linn.
 the binomial combination Tethyseporina being preoccupied by Linnseus 1758.
The synonymy of the genus is as follows 1761.
Fimbria Bohadsch 1761.
a mononym.
1767.
Tethvs L. 1767 not Tethys. 1758.
1801.
Tethis Lam. 8vst.
An.
s. Vert.
p. 63.
1808.
Thethys Cuvier Ann.
du Mus.
d'Hist Nat.
XII p. 257.
1808.
Thetis Meckel.
Beytr.
zu vergleicb.
Anat.
I. i p. 9 not Thetis J. Sowb.
Min.
Conch.
1826.
1817'.
Thetrs Fir. Tabl.
Syst.
p. 28.
1819.
Phoenicjtnis Rudolphi Entozoorum Synopsis p. 573.
1823.
Vertumnus Otto.
Nov. A. Ac.
C. Leop.
Nat.
Cur.
XI pp.
294300.
Of these names the first was not distinctly proposed as a genus Bohadsch's nomenclature being strictly mononymic.
The seventh and eighth were founded on minute appendages of the animal supposed to be parasitic worms and certainly the genus could not be identified by these descriptions.
The other names are variants on Linnaeus' original Tethys
2 The spelling  Laplysia is evidently a typographical error or oversight for the first use of the word on page 1072 of the Syst.
Nat.
12 is in the correct form  Aplysia.
The generic diagnosis given on this page is brief but sufficient  283.
Aplysia Tentacula 4.
Anus supra postica.
Tentacuta quatuor anterius sita.
' depilans.
1.
Laplysia.
Syst.
Nat.
10. p. 653.
Tethysimacina.
RoniL pise.
1. p. 520.
Lepus marinus.
Gesn.
aquat.
475.
Lepus marinus Rondeletii.
Bohads.
mar.
3. t. 1 2 3.
Lernea graphice.
Seb.
mm.
3. t. 1.
8 9.
Habitat in M. Mediterraneo sanie depilans tactu.
B.
51.
J foetidissima ad nauseam usque.
The description of the genus is implied for the species depilans and it is also said to be the Tethysimacina of the Tenth Edition.
1 The second reference is to the same figure of Rondelet formerly cited for Tethyseporina.
The third reference repeats the earlier citation to Gesner with the same mistake as to the page.
The fourth reference is to the excellent figure of Bohadsch's Lernea representing unmistakably the Aplysia depilans of authors.
The reference to Seba is less happy the figures being too ambiguous for certain determination.
It is perfectly evident that Linineus' generic characters of Laplysia were derived from Bohadsch's work and as the best figures are from the same source the traditional identification of depilans is fully sustained.
Summary.
 From the foregoing facts it would appear that  1 the generic name Tethysinn.
1758 must replace Aplysia and Laplysia Linn.
1767.
And 2 as a substitute for Tethysn.
1767 not 1758 we will probably be compelled to adopt either one of the new spellings of this name proposed in the early part of the century or an entirely new generic term.
1 We would not replace the specific name defiilanshy limacina because the latter was not recognizably defined in Linnpeus' earlier edition.
