NEW FOSSORIAL Hymenoptera FROM NEW MEXICO.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL AND WM.
J.
FOX.
1 Sphserophthalma snoworum n sp.
 .
 Length about 15 mm. anterior wing 11 mm.
Head thorax antenna
and legs black with black pubescence  abdomen ferruginous the basal segment darkened.
Head small rounded  eyes very prominent shining  pubescence of vertex becoming brownish  antennal sockets directed outward and downward producing the appearance of a prominent tubercle immediately mesadof the insertion of each antenna beneath which there is a deep depression which is smooth and shining  clypeus and cheeks subcancellate with large close punctures  penultimate joint of labial palpus very broad  first three joints of flagellum about equal in length.
Thorax irregularly cancellate with close punctures moderately hairy the pubescence on the prothorax becoming dark brownish.
Tegulse shining black.
Middle segment gradually rounded not carinate at the sides.
Wings dark fuliginous a hyaline streak across the second submarginal cell and a hyaline spot just outside of it.
Three submarginal cells the second broadly subtriangular  marginal cell not extending further than the third submarginal  second recurrent nervure almost obsolete.
First abdominal segment shaped something like the head of a vulture its union with the second marked by a deep suture.
Pubescence of abdomen tolerably abundant black on first segment largely black on dorsum of second the rest shining ochraceous.
Punctuation of abdomen extremely dense the shining articulating surfaces of the segments minutely transversely striate no doubt for purposes of stridulation.
Apex broad and rounded with lateral keels.
Hab.
 Albuquerque New Mexico Aug. 1894 Snow.
It is named after the Snows father and son who have contributed so much to our knowledge of the entomology of New Mexico.
Near to S. apicalata Blake err.
typ.
for apiculata 
from Mexico but is larger abdomen entirely reddish and lacks the pale pubescence of 1 The descriptions are entirely drawn up by Prof. Cockerell  my part has been chiefly the comparison of the species with the collection of the American Entomological Society.
 W. J. F. head and thorax.
In general appearance it resembles the Mexican Mutillacyllene Cam.
Sphaerophthalma donaeanas n. sp.
9   Length from 8 to 10 mm.
 brownishferruginous with black aud silvery pubescence mostly appressed.
Head very large subquadrate about as large seen from in front as the thorax seen from the side  cancellate from a very close punctuation  pubescence partly erect and partly depressed not dense enough to hide the surface silvery on cheeks in front of eyes on scape and base of mandibles black on vertex  a small smooth shining spot behind each eye  cheeks distinctly keeled but not toothed  mandibles with a rather large tooth on inner edge this tooth and all beyond it black  antennae reddishbrown with blackened tips first joint of flagellum nearly twice as long as second.
Thorax strongly rugosepunctate constricted at sides abruptly truncate behind with a tubercle at the top of the truncation  nearly as broad behind as in front.
Pubescence not dense enough to hide the surface forming a blackish triangular patch on dorsulum its apex directed caudad its base convex  outside of this large patch the whole dorsal area is covered with glittering yellowishsilvery hairs.
Elsewhere on the thorax there is little pubescence except about and just above the legs where it is appressed dense and silvery.
Legs dark ferruginous with thin pale pubescence anterior tibia
blackish spines on hind tibia
tipped with black.
Abdomen pyriform first segment broadening rapidly its suture with the second flat its hind margin blackish  second segment partly from the ground color and partly from the hairs appearing bright orangerufous glittering with metallic orange without any discal spots or marks but with a very broad low black triangle on its hind border.
Remaining segments with glittering yellowishsilvery pubescence laterally with a few erect black hairs  extreme apex black or blackish but this not due to pubescence.
Punctuation of abdomen close.
The general effect of the head and thorax is a sort of purplishbrown contrasting with an orangescarlet second abdominal segment.
Hab.
 The Mesilla Valley in Dona Ana County New Mexico.
Mesilla Aug. 15 and 18 1896 Ckll.
 near Las Cruces Sept.
Ckll. 4857 4894.
Close to S. contumax Cresson from Colorado but the thorax is broader less narrowed posteriorly being nearly quadrate  there is no pale pubescence forming maculation on second dorsal segment  head without pale glittering pubescence to the extent of that in contumax.
Mutillas.
lat.
sanctaefese n. sp.
9 .
 Length about 6J mm. slender head and thorax ferruginous abdomen black except the first segment which is ferruginous  pubescence thin silvery not hiding the surface.
Head rather small almost circular seen from in front subcancellate with large punctures very thinly pubescent cheeks not keeled  eyes prominent and shiny as in Sphcerophthalma but oval mandibles blacktipped and bearing a prominent tubercle on the outer lower edge not far from the base  antennae furruginous throughout first joint of flagellum about as long as second.
Thorax subcancellate with very thin erect pubescence not forming any pattern  seen from above it is little constricted at the sides and gradually but not greatly narrows caudad sloping rapidly behind without any abrupt truncation.
The side view of the thorax has the outline of a halfcircle.
Coxa bases of femora knees and tarsi ferruginous  femora and tibia
mainly blackish  tibial spines not tipped with black.
Abdomen fusiform moderately shiny second segment moderately densely punctured first segment rapidly broadening to second its suture with it little depressed.
Pubescence of abdomen erect and rather conspicuous on the hind margins of segments 2 to 5 partly depressed and forming rather thin white bands on the disc of the second segment shorter and blackish.
The large exposed articulating surfaces of the third and fourth segments are minutely transversely striate that of the third having a sharplydefined median smooth area wholly wanting on the fourth.
Hab. Santa Fe New Mexico August 5 1895 Ckll. 4260.
Superficially resembles S. virguncula but has the abdomen finely punctured and the entire insect is much more slender.
M. sanctcefece is rather an anomalous little species for while the eyes are shiny and prominent as in Sphcerophthalma it has the oval shape of Mutillathe general coloration also recalls some of the species of Mutilla
The tubercle on the mandibles is a striking feature.
The middle tibia has two spurs.
Ancistromma chilopsidis n. sp.
.
 Length about HA mm. anterior wing 7 mm. smooth and shining entirely bright ferruginous except the head which is black except the antenna
and region of the mouth.
Front shining with 10 a distinct median groove finely and tolerably closely punctured a few much larger punctures scattered about distance between eyes at top fully equal to joints 3 to 5 of antenna
 clypeus a small supraclypeal area mandibles except ends palpi and antenna
ferruginous  clypeus with minute close punctures except in the middle where they are large and sparse anterior margin gradually rounded sublaterally angled but hardly dentate antenna
short scape swollen with a conspicuous bulla first three joints of flagellum of about equal length.
Dorsulum with fine close punctures the mesothorax with thin short reddishorange pile not easily noticeable shining almost silvery just in front of scutellum in certain lights scutellum not impressed medially  middle segment very finely transversely striate appearing almost sericeous.
Legs quite spinose the anterior tarsi especially with very long spines seven on the first joint and two on each of the following three  hind spur of hind tibia nearly as long as first tarsal joint.
Abdomen impunctate pygidial area not nearly twice as long as broad very sparsely punctured.
Wings hyaline nervures ferruginous.
Hab.
 Rincon New Mexico at flowers of Chilopsis saligna Don Bignoniacese July 5 1896 Ckll. B.
4 one specimen only.
It is quite distinct from all other species by its coloration  it comes nearest apparently to A. eonferta Fox which has a black thorax etc.
Astatus bigelovise n. sp.
9 .
 Length 11 mm. anterior wing 7
mm. smooth and shining entirely pitch black.
Front with large close pits one might say deeply malleate area between each lateral ocellus and the eye smooth and impunctate distance between the eyes at the top about equal to antennal joints 2 to 4 first joint of flagellum a little longer than second  scape swollen sparsely punctured  upper part of clypeus and supraclypeal area impunctate  anterior margin of clypeus sulcatulate gently rounded curved outward  lower part of cheeks and mandibles at base and beneath with black bristles  cheeks otherwise with sparse long silvery hairs  antepenultimate joint of labial palpi produced at tip with the outline of a rightangled triangle very broad at base the penultimate joint springing from near the apex  mesothorax with large punctures close in front becoming sparse and irregular caudad the surface between the punctures irregularly transversely striate tegula
very dark brown  disc of scutellum shining with a few very large punctures  middle segment above minutely cancellate appearing coarsely granular under a low power  wings fuliginous marginal cell only a little shorter than the first submarginal obliquely truncate  second submarginal narrowed above nearly to a point  legs tolerably spiny first joint of anterior tarsus with four long spines  tibial spurs black  abdomen microscopically tessellate with a very few scattered punctures on the third to the fifth segments pygidial area minutely granular about onethird longer than broad.
Hab.
 On Bigelovia ivrightii close to the Agricultural College Mesilla Valley New Mexico Sept. 11 1895 Ckll. 4951.
Differs from A. nigropilosus by the sculpture of the middle segment which is not obviously reticulate.
A specimen of true nigropilosus recognized as such by Mr. Fox was taken on the campus of the Agricultural College on Oct. 31.
Gorytes bigeloviae n. sp.
S .
 Length about 10 mm. anterior wing 7 mm. rather slender black  occiput sides of face cheeks thorax especially sides and hind end and abdomen especially on dorsal segments three and four hoary from a minute silvery pile  antennse clypeus mandibles and anterior legs orangerufous bright in color except the antennas which are duskybrown above  middle femora and tibiae obscurely brownish beneath  a narrow line along inner orbits hind margin of prothorax tubercles and a mark behind them obscure spot on tegulse spot above base of wings broad band on scutellum line on postscutellum and elongate patch on each side margin of middle segment apical bands on dorsal segments 1 to 5 broad on 1 becoming successively narrower and a broad interrupted band on the second ventral segment all creamywhite.
Eyes very little converging below front strongly but rather sparsely punctured clypeus somewhat convex scape with an obscure yellow stripe in front first joint of flagellum only a little longer than second  mesothorax with very large not particularly close punctures  tegulae testaceous with a whitish spot  scutellum sparsely punctured  triangular basal area of middle segment very strongly longitudinally furrowed the remaining portion obscurely subcancellate  wings hyaline the marginal cell and a little beneath it fuliginous nervures piceous as also the scigma marginal cell shorter than in some species  tibiae and tarsi with only the minutest spines  abdomen slender first segment shaped something like the head of a vulture strongly bulging at end its suture with the second viewed from the side a little less than a right angle  first two segments with large rather sparse punctures second microscopically tessellate  third to fifth segments with smaller somewhat closer punctures apical segment microscopically punctulate.
Hab.
 On Bigelovia wrightii close to the Agricultural College Mesilla Valley New Mexico Sept. 12 1895 Ckll. 5096.
This has something the appearance of G.fuscus Tasch. but will be known at once by the coarctate first segment of abdomen and the color of the antennae and legs.
The submedian cell of the hind wings terminates the merestpoint beyond the origin of the cubital nervure and the last ventral segment is not bifid or is the fifth ventral segment armed with a prominence.
Gorytes crucis n. sp.
9 .
 Length about 10 mm. of head and thorax 5 of anterior wing 11 mm. of ordinary build bright ferruginous with a broad yellow band on scutellum and a darker smooth abdomen.
Inner orbits parallel  front minutely granular with rather large sparse punctures  area between the ocelli black  space between the antennal sockets slightly less than the diameter of a socket  clypeus prominent shining its lateral margins with some short silvery pubescence its anterior margin gently concave mandibles dark at tips scape not swollen second flagellar joint about twothirds length of first.
Prothorax and tubercles entirely without pale marking  mesothorax granular with large not very close punctures  scutellum microscopically punctulate and sparsely punctured yellow with the anterior margin black  anterior half of postscutellum black  middle segment coarsely rugosepunctate the welldefined triangular enclosure strongly sulcate or logitudinally ribbed.
Tegulse pale orangefulvous  wings fuliginous with a pallid area by the base of the stigma stigma and costal nervure fulvous nervures dark fuscous marginal cell quite long.
Legs entirely ferruginous not very strongly spined  clawjoint of anterior tarsus much swollen the remaining joints also somewhat enlarged.
First segment of abdomen coarctate  the abdomen was unfortunately destroyed before a detailed description had been prepared.
Hab.
 Las Cruces New Mexico Aug. 12 C. H. T. Townsend.
Resembles tricolor and dentatusin regard to coloration but the first segment is coarctate.
Its coloration and robust form easily distinguish it from the species with a coarctate segment heretofore known.
Using the table in Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1895 p. 517 it runs at once to G. rufocinctus from which it differs entirely in coloration.
It has some degree of resemblance to G. phaleratus rufoluteus Pack.
 which was taken byProf. Townsend at Las Cruces on the same day Aug. 12 but the latter has a black mesothorax yellow collar etc. and has more the appearance of venustus.
Passaloecus armeniacae n. sp.
9 .
 Length 5 mm. black the scape in front mandibles except their rufescent ends palpi and anterior tibiae in front pale chrome yellow and anterior tarsi orangerufous tubercles creamcolor tegula
very pale testaceous with a creamcolored spot.
Front roughened from minute close punctures sides of face and clypeus to some extent with brilliant silvery hairs labrum conspicuously produced ending in a blunt point at an angle of about 75.
Mandibles bidentate at apex the inner tooth much the shortest.
Dorsulum very closely punctured with a pair of obtuse but very distinct tubercles  middle segment coarsely reticulate.
Wings hyaline beautifully iridescent nervures and stigma piceous.
Abdomen shining slightly pruinose minutely punctured.
Hab.
 Santa Fe New Mexico flying about the foliage of an apricot tree July 4 Ckll. 3305.
Near to P. annularis but dorsulum bituberculate and its anterior furrows not foveolate  labrum more acute than in annularis.
Diodontus leguminiferus n. sp.
 .
 Length about 3
mm.
 black with a large head and rather slender abdomen  face below antennae silverycanescent  mandibles with a yellow streak and rufous tips palpi pale grayishbrown  anterior knees tibiae and first joint of tarsus and middle tibiae at base and apex pale dull orangerufous  hind tibiae at base pale brownishorange tarsi all brownish.
Front microscopically lineolate passing into tessellate with scattered punctures  antennae simple  cypleus bidentateemarginate  dorsulum very minutely roughened and very distinctly punctured the punctures very dense in front  middle segment coarsely roughened irregularly cancellate tegulae black wings hyaline nervures and stigma piceous abdomen shining distinctly but very minutely and not very densely punctured its outline from the side suggests a ripe peapod hence the specific name.
The suture between the first and second segments is quite depressed.
Hab.
 Santa Fe New Mexico in Mr. Morrison's garden July 10 Ckll. 3447.
Comes near D. flavitarsis in regard to the simple antennae but is much smaller and more slender and the legs are differently colored.
DEMONSTRATION OF ABSORPTION OF CARBON DIOXIDE AND OF THE GENERATION OF OXYGEN BY DIATOMS.
BY T. CHALKLEY PALMER.
The essentially vegetable nature of diatoms is at the present time acknowledged by biologists almost or quite without exception.
The phenomena of their increase and reproduction if nothing else are of a nature to call for their grouping in the same class with such undoubted plants as desmids and the Zygnemacea.
Yet every young student seeing for the first time the glassy cells of diatoms moving about under his microscope in a manner that would seem to indicate a very animallike volition is liable to ask for some tangible proof of their plant nature some more elementary argument than that drawn from relations which are to be apprehended in all their significance only after somewhat extended study.
However difficult or even impossible it may be to draw a definite line that shall separate the animal and vegetable kingdoms it is probable that no one will object if the term plant is applied to an organism which when exposed to sunlight is found to absorb carbon dioxide and to exhale oxygen.
The method and apparatus described herein are designed to show that both these phenomena which are so characteristic of plants in general are characteristic of diatoms.
Pelletan 1 states that he has collected sufficient of the gas arising from diatoms to serve for the application of those usual chemical tests which prove it to be oxygen.
But it is not easy to bring together the conditions that permit the collection from diatoms alone of such a volume of gas as is required for these tests.
Considerable time also must be needed for the operation.
This question of time is in fact important to the success of the experiment  for in the absence of sunshine or at least of bright daylight it is found by experience that diatoms and especially the motile forms that are expending energy in the way made evident by their motion cease to exhale oxygen and begin to absorb it or at least to give out carbon dioxide.
This phenomenon  the evidence of an exothermic chemical reaction  the diatoms exhibit in common not only with Les Diatomes.
animal organisms but with all plants also.
It is the wellknown process of respiration that which Gautier has called the animal life of plants.
The method I desire to describe is of great simplicity and it yields conclusive results within an hour provided the light be sufficiently strong  it does not necessitate the collection of any appreciable volume of gas and it demonstrates both phases of the endothermic reaction.
Hematoxylin the chromogen of logwood is peculiarly fitted to be an indicator in a case where it is desired to recognize the presence or absence of carbon dioxide and the evolution of nascent oxygen the solvent being ordinary water from spring or river containing its usual traces of various mineral matters.
Under the influence of carbon dioxide the hematoxylin dissolved in such water loses its normal rosy or slightly bluishred tint and turns to a yellow with a tinge of brown.
In the presence of nascent oxygen on the other hand the light red hue deepens momentarily and ends by becoming a very deep blood red.
The latter change is in a manner permanent but the former is reversible i. e. the rosy red color returns when the carbon dioxide is removed.
These wellknown color reactions are of great delicacy and are used in the following way   imi iipiini iiiTnrrr ess A sufficient quantity of water is taken to fill all of the tubes shown in the figure and the dish up to the mark DE.
This is tinted with a sufficient quantity of a freshly made solution of hematoxylin.
The color should be a very pale hue of red.
The tube A is then filled and the rubber stopper with its penetrating quilltube is inserted the last bubble of air is forced out by pressure and the tube suspended as shown.
The remainder of the solution is acidified with carbon dioxide from the lungs blown into it through a glass tube.
The brownishyellow tint having developed tubes B and C are filled with the solution and into C some clean living diatoms are put.
Both are then corked and hung as figured the quilltubes dipping below the surface of the liquid in the dish.
These quilltubes which allow the pressure within the larger tubes due to gas or to expansion from heat to relieve itself into the dish are drawn down to a very small opening in order to lessen diffusion of liquid up or down and to confirm the diatoms.
The apparatus is now exposed to bright light  if to direct sunlight so much the better since the action is then more rapid.
Gas arises from the diatoms in tube C and simultaneously the color of the liquid which is at first like that in B begins to change.
Within fifteen minutes under proper conditions the color has again become almost or quite as red as that in tube A.
The carbon dioxide has now in large measure disappeared from the solution.
The action continues and the color in tube C deepens rapidly showing oxidation  and this action continues until the color is quite bloodred or even in case much lime is in the water until bluish lakes are formed in clouds.
The ceasing of the action may conceivably be determined by exhaustion of every trace of carbon dioxide but data on this head are wanting as yet.
At all events the evolution of gas goes on long after the color reaction of carbon dioxide has disappeared.
The experiment may be varied in the following manner  All of the tubes are filled with the normal nonacid reddish solution of hematoxylin.
Into A is put a living snail into B live diatoms and C is allowed to remain for comparison.
The whole apparatus being exposed to sunshine A pales rapidly under the influence of the carbon dioxide from the snail while B as rapidly darkens and reddens compared with C owing to the oxygen from the diatoms.
This result so significant is obtainable in a very few minutes.
The diatoms selected for the above experiments were the long broad filamentous forms of Eunotia E. major of Rabenhorst which are peculiarly applicable because it is easy to procure them in sufficient abundance and to free them under a dissecting microscope from any accompanying alga
that might by their presence tend to acts doubt upon the conclusiveness of the results.
1897.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
145 March 2.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    The Genus Sturnella by Witmer Stone. 
Diptera Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith in Somaliland Eastern Africa by Chas.
W. Johnson.
March' 9.
Charles Schaeffer M. D. in the Chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
A paper entitled Underground Runners by Ida A. Keller was presented for publication.
March 16.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Sixtyone persons present.
March 23.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twentyfour persons present.
March 30.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Thirtyfive persons present.
Premolars and Form of the Skull.
 Dr. Harrison Allen proposed to call the teeth back of the canines in Man the premolars since they are followed in direct infraposition by the teeth of the same name in the permanent set  thus the deciduous series do not possess molars.
He also spoke of the effects of diseased action on the form of the skull.
Many of the socalled types were of late origin due to various phases of malnutrition and were not of much systemic significance.
The following were ordered to be printed   THE GENUS STURNELLA.
BY WITMER STONE.
The diversity of coloration in the Meadow Larks included byauthors under the name Stumella magna mexicana must have attracted the atteution of anyone who has examined a series of these birds.
The range of mexicana as given in the American Ornithologists Union Check List extends northward to the Rio Grande Valley though the larks from this locality are very different looking birds from those which occur in Southern Mexico and Central America.
The Meadow Lark of Southern Florida has also been referred to mexicana but while there is a close resemblance between the two they are widely separated geographically and their similarity must be considered as a case of parallel development rather than of immediate relationship.
The uncertain status of these races seemed to render desirable a careful revision of the genus the results of which are embodied in the present paper.
For the opportunity of satisfactorily studying the relationships of the Rio Grande Meadow Lark I am mainly indebted to Mr. Josiah Hoopes of West Chester Pa. who has taken great trouble to ascertain the exact status of this bird and has generously placed his entire series of specimens at my disposal.
I am also indebted to Mr. Robert Ridgway of the United States National Museum and to Mr. Wm.
Brewster from both of whom 1 have received series of specimens to aid in my investigations.
These together with specimens from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and from my own collection number 192 skins which constitutes the material upou which my work is based.
The Meadow Lark was first named by Linnseus in 1758 1 Alauda magna based upon Catesby's Carolina I p. 33. pi.
33.
He gives the  habitat in America Africa the latter reference probably referring to Macronyx which greatly resembles Stumella in coloration.
In 1766 in edition XII of the Systema Linuseus again named the bird Sturnus ludovicianus basing this name on Brisson 1 Systema Natura X ed. p. 117.
Aves II p. 449 t. 41 f. 1 and in 1816 Vieillot proposed the name collaris for it.
These names all refer to the eastern bird  magna having priority of course holds for this race.
In 1832 Wagler 2 proposed the name hippocrepis for the Cuban Meadow Lark.
In 1843 Audubon described 3 Sturnella neglecta from the Missouri River above Ft. Croghan.
Sclater in 1861 called attention to the difference in Meadow Larks from different parts of America and proposed the names mexicana for the bird of Southern Mexico Jalapa Cordova and Orizaba and meridionalis for the one inhabiting Colombia and Venezuela.
Later Ridgway proposed the name inexpectata for a very small Meadow Lark from Segovia River Honduras.
These six races have been generally recognized and have usually been ranked as subspecies though some authors contend that neglecta should be considered as a distinct species.
In addition to the forms already described two others have attracted the attention of ornithologists on account of their peculiarities of coloration but have hitherto for want of better disposition been included under mexicana.
These are the Florida and Rio Grande Meadow Larks.
Dr. J.
A. Allen was the first to call attention to the peculiarities exhibited by the Florida bird Bull.
Mus.
Comp.
Zool. II 1871 p. 288 but as he at that time referred all the forms of Sturnella to one species he naturally did not propose a new term for this race.
Chapman 5 emphasizes the difference between this Meadow Lark and true magna stating that he is unable to unite them but on the other hand considers it impossible to separate the Florida bird from mexicana and so records it under that name a practice which has been followed by others but which seems never to have been ratified by the A. O. U.
Committee as they do not include Florida in the range of mexicana in their new Check List.
The Meadow Lark of the Lower Rio Grande Valley also presents strong points of difference from the recognized forms and has been recorded under a variety of names.
In 1878 Sennett stated that magna was common near Brownsville Texas but only one specimen was secured   March 26th 2 Isis 1832 p. 281.
3 Bds.
Amer. VII p. 339 pi.
487 4 Ibis 1861 p. 179.
5 Auk 1888 p. 273. aud adds that  we did not obtain var.
neglecta although it is undoubtedly common.
6 Dr. J. C. Merrill states that the summer Meadow Lark at Ft. Brown has been identified by Mr. Ridgway as typical mexicana. 
Its notes and habits do not differ essentially from those of magna.
Abundant from April until October.
A foot note by Mr. Ridgway states that the two specimens examined by him were obtained at Ft. Brown August 21 and September 13 1877 and agree exactly with Mexican examples. 
They are easily distinguished from true magna by smaller general size including the bill and much longer legs and feet.
Becham states that all the birds taken or seen by him at Corpus Christi San Antonio and Beeville December 1886 March 1887 were typical neglecta 1 while Hancock states that magna was common at Corpus Christi but apparently the only bird shot proved to be neglecta  nevertheless he says that the song of the bird was much shorter and more feeble in its utterance than magna.
8 Rhoads 9 says that he examined a Meadow Lark in the flesh at Corpus Christi June 1891 which was undoubtedly magna and that three larks observed during several weeks previous in the same vicinity had the song of magna.
In view of these statements the simplest explanation seems to be that while two forms of Meadow Lark are present in winter in the Rio Grande Valley neglecta does not breed there and that the resident bird has a song resembling that of magna.
Its identity with mexicana as claimed by Mr. Ridgway I. c. I cannot endorse from an examination of the series before me.
AVhile these birds doubtless are identical with examples from Northern Mexico just across the Rio Grande River they are strikingly different from specimens from Southern Mexico the type locality of mexicana.
A careful comparison of a large series of specimens shows that the Meadow Lark of the Rio Grande Valley is as light or lighter than the lightest neglecta averaging very similar to this form in the coloration of the upper surface but agreeing with magna in the distribution of the ellow below.
The birds from Mexico on the other hand represent the darkest coloration exhibited by Sturnella.
To 6 Bull.
U. S. Geogr.
and Geol.
Survey 1878 p. 24.
7 Proc.
U. S. N. M. 1887 p. G70.
8 Bull.
Ridgway Orn.
Club II 1887 p. 18.
'Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1892 p. 108. unite these two extremes and also the isolated Florida bird under one name seems to me eminently misleading and quite at variance with our treatment of geographical races of other species.
I therefore propose to separate as a distinct subspecies the Rio Grande Meadow Lark and to place the Florida bird for the present at least along with true magna for reasons that will be stated below.
The Rio Grande Meadow Lark may be separated as follows Stumella magna hoopesi subsp.
nov.
Type No.
786 coll.
Josiah Hoopes.
Brownsville Texas   March 13 1892 F. B. Armstrong.
Color below as in magna but rather lighter and less buff on the sides and under tail coverts upper surface much grayer and generally lighter.
The brown tints of magna are very largely replaced by gray especially on the wings.
Sides of the face whiter than in magna tail bars almost always distinct i. e. not confluent along the shaft of the feather.
This bird is the lightest of all the Meadow Larks averaging a little lighter than neglecta the tail bars are also more distinct than in any of the other races.
A series of females in Mr. Hoopes' collection taken in midwinter are veiled below with very light almost white tips to the feathers and are even more strikingly different from magna than those in breeding plumage since the latter race in winter is veiled with buffybrown.
While this race approaches neglecta in its general light color the absence of yellow from the malar region will at once distinguish it.
From mexicana it differs more widely than from any of the other races as we have in these two the extremes of dark and light coloration.
The several races of Meadow Larks may then be distinguished as follows  1.
Yellow of throat not spread laterally on the malar region.
2.
Colors of back darker.
3.
Black crescent on breast broader light streaks above inclining to white terminal spots on feathers of back generally distinct magna.
3.
Black crescent narrower light streaks above decidedly buff terminal spots on feathers of the back generally reduced and crossed by black markings.
All brown markings on wings and back bright chestnut brown.
4.
Bill very long meridionalis.
4.
Bill shorter mexicana.
4.
Bill and all dimensions very small inexpectata.
2.
Colors of back lighter all the browns of the upper surface and wings nearly replaced by gray hoopesi.
1.
Yellow of throat spread laterally on the malar region  plumage above more gray than brown neglecta.
THE FLORIDA MEADOW LARK.
Judging from a comparison of Florida birds with a series from the Atlantic States to the northward I was inclined to separate the former as a distinct race following Chapman's views as to the impracticability of uniting them with magna.
They are smaller and darker than magna with the yellow generally more intense.
All the feathers of the upper parts have the black areas greater than in magna especially noticeable on the secondaries and tail.
On the latter the crossbars are always confluent and sometimes the black area covers almost the entire feather.
Mexicana differs from the Florida bird in the much narrower breast crescent the general buff tint in the light markings and the greater extension of the black area on the feathers of the back.
The brown tints in mexicana are also much brighter and inclined to chestnut.
Notwithstanding the differences exhibited by the Florida bird comparison with a series from Avery's Island Louisiana and another from southern Illinois and Indiana 10 shows that they approach very close to it in all its peculiarities the Louisiana birds being quite identical.
In view of this fact it is certainly impossible to separate the Florida bird and if any separation is made of these southern darkcolored Meadow Larks the birds of the Gulf Coast and from some distance up the Mississippi Valley probably to the upper limit of the Austroriparian Zone must be included.
The adoption of such an arrangement would necessitate the revival of Linnaeus' name 10 U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Coll.
ludoviciana for the southern form since the type locality was Louisiana.
So far as I can judge from the material in hand I think it hardly worth while to attempt such a division.
The exact relationships of some of the races of Stumella is very easily traced while in the case of others it is less apparent.
The true Stumella magna is found throughout the eastern United States from Maine southward and westward to the edge of the Plains.
In the southern portion of its range it tends to smaller size and darker coloration as already described.
To the southwest magna extends into northeastern Texas  one from Jefferson Co. No.
41444 Coll.
Wm.
Brewster being very similar to the eastern bird.
In the Rio Grande Valley however the larks pass into a very light race fully as light as the prairie neglecta with the wings even grayer.
This is the form here named hoopesi.
The exact range of this bird I am unable to trace  all the specimens I have examined were from Brownsville and Laredo.
In southern Mexico and Central America we find the race mexicana a very dark bird most nearly resembling the larks from Florida.
This in turn passes into the South American meridionalis which is of about the same coloration but differs in its proportions especially in the very large bill.
The peculiar form called inexpectata is known only from three specimens from Segovia River Honduras.
They are remarkable for their extremely small size but resemble mexicana in coloration.
On the north mexicana probably grades into hoopesi but I have no specimens from northern Mexico showing this gradation.
One individual from Huachuca Arizona March 1 1887 male No.
23198 Coll.
Wm.
Brewster however may perhaps be so regarded.
It has the narrow breast band of mexicana and is browner above than hoopesi from the Rio Grande Valley which in other respects it much resembles agreeing strictly with this form in the distribution of yellow on the throat.
11 Having thus traced the races most clearly connected with magna and their offshoots it remains to speak of the relationships of neglecta.
This form is found from the eastern border of the plains Another bird labelled as shot at the same time and place No.
23199 Coll.
Wm.
Brewster is a typical male neglecta.
It has the plumage much worn as in a breeding bird while in the one referred to above the plumage is but little worn agreeing well with November birds from Arizona.
It is strange that two such specimens should be taken on the same date 
152 1897. westward to the Pacific northward well into British Columbia and southward to southern California Arizona and northern Texas passing into western Mexico and southern Texas in winter.
Eastward it occurs more or less numerously as far as Wisconsin Illinois and Missouri thus overlapping the range of magna through considerable areas.
As I have no new evidence to offer as to the claims of this bird to specific rank I have let it stand as a subspecies in accordance with the decision of the A. O. U.
Check List Committee though the excessive rarity of specimens intermediate between neglecta and magna taken in connection with the overlapping of their breeding ranges seems to me pretty strong evidence of their specific distinction even though the differences in coloration are slight.
As already stated so far as my material goes it seems that mexicana as here restricted does not occur within the limits of the United States.
If my arrangement is adopted therefore 501a of the A. O. U.
Check List will be changed to Stumella magna hoopesi Rio Grande Meadow Lark.
Measurements in inches of the various races of Stumella are appended.
LENGTH OF WING.
S. magna Pennsylvania 9 males S. magna Florida 10 males S. magna mexicana 6 males S. magna meridionalis 4 males S. magna inexpectata 1 male S. magna hoopesi 6 males S. magna neglecta 18 males LENGTH OF CULMEN.
S. magna Pennsylvania 9 males S. magna Florida 10 males S. magna mexicana 6 males S. magna meridionalis 4 males S. magna inexpectata 1 male S. magna hoopesi 6 males S. magna neglecta 18 males average max.
min.
4.88 5.04 4.75 4.35 4.50 4.20 4.40 4.60 4.22 4.33 4.05 4.60 3.85 4.61 5.
4.45 4.95 5.18 4.80 r. average max.
min.
1.34 1.42 1.26 1.29 1.36 1.24 1.23 1.30 1.18 1.49 1.52 1.42 1.10 1.31 1.40 1.25 1.28 1.34 1.22
