DESCRIPTIONS OF FIVE NEW PHYLLOSTOME BATS.
BY GERRIT S. MILLER JR.
The greater part of the material on which are based the descriptions of the following five new bats is contained in the United States National Museum and the descriptions are published here by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
An important collection from Jamaica sent by the Museum of the Institute of Jamaica to the United States Department of Agriculture and submitted to me for determination by Dr. C. Hart Merriam includes topotypes of the little known Natalies micropus Dobson and the unique type of Reithronycteris aphylla
The type and only known specimen of Glossophaga longirostris forms part of a small collection of bats made by Mr. W. W. Brown Jr. at Santa Marta Colombia and referred to me for identification by Mr. Outram Bangs.
Series of specimens from each of these collections are to be presented to the National Museum.
Chilonatalus subgen.
nov. Natalinae.
Type Natalus micropus Dobson.
Subgeneric characters.
 Similar to typical Natalus Gray but with conspicuous dermal outgrowths on chin and above nostrils.
These outgrowths as pointed out by Dobson produce a strong resemblance to Chilonycteris
Males with a large glandular swelling on forehead between and slightly in front of eyes figure 1.
General remarks.
 Natulus micropus and N. brevimanus differ so remarkably from the other members of the genus that they must be regarded as forming at least a distinct subgenus.
The form of the glandular elevation above the nostrils and the apparently double lower lip taken in connection with the other characters pointed out by Harrison Allen in which the Fig.
1.
 Head of CldloNatalities resemble Chilonycterisand Mornatalus a and Nata j .
i i . u u lus b left ear remoo P s  ma y indicate a closer relationship bemoved.
Slightly entween the two groups than has heretofore been larged.
suspected.
1898.
327 snS'BJX COtK CC  T Tf to TT f 3 f O SO to eo  T ' Tf Tf TT Tf 1 Tf  lO f ' Tf  Tf 1 Tji  Tp Tfl f i Tf t Tj 11  '   t 1 CO 00 CO Tf Tf  f GO njiojo toojj JB3 h h m n h m h oi w' i ' r h h h m ci cm CM CM lH cm r  CO  CM to  CO  GO snjBam raojj JB3 CCCOCMcOTtCOTfCOCO'J't'eMCCCOCO jaSng qjjt CO CO   f      f J      t t    J     uaSag qino j eo oo oo tj  eg io lo ic to cj h r ci f o rt  io t ut   io ic  J9Sag p.itqx CO WMf hOHOONaoOXftOOOOOHOHHai O C t3 5 C O WO O O C O O 1ft tD O tO O IC CO O D C3 lO uaSuy paooag CO  Tfl  CO  t wwwcorteowwwwwwwwweoMM CO  i4 00 00 3S qranqx  Tf M  3  CO   CC f   Ct f  J   tf Ct   1 rQ CO O  Tt Tt  Tf   rajBajoj Tj CM Tf CO h CM CO CM CO CM r CM CM CM CM CO CO CO CO CM CM CM CO CO CM COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOcriCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO CO  TT CO co  c rooj thttttOQWOCOCOtOtth'O'ONtttOtO 00 CO  CO BWTX 00 c to t IO WW 1ft lO iO W CO 5 w o in lO C CO JO ift o to IO ajjqajjaA iiX . 1 i  ficDtiftXXW'incDtwco'Ococ s ooroococi'd qjgna iox CM ON'fN'OtrMH'h.X'OlOtOlONWb'OMXlft cccccccGcoxooccoooocccccocococococococoooaicoaoao s CHbb ddOokkkkckkhCOfH.
0'WMWMWOiicoOX0 05WM o cm cm cm cm t re r W LC cm co co r r w w jaqmn ccoo oo oo xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx w w ww iftiftia in w uo www ww ww ww w ojoojcoJcJocoooocJcoaJopcaiaJa oooociuouuoooayyoyocjoy   ca  scccccc   ccczcaa  d c3c3e3c3CaaQQaaaiaQajiacgaajaQa  'Cj o c o o  p J p d U ' J '0 r J r j  J t3 'g 3  xi     'j 'D 'O 3 O aaa32
 pppp2oopoo Hi C5C3c3c32ZCiQLd2iCi  Ci2ia2. J G 1 Q.
r d r d'TT3 r '0J r v r Cd 3 r T3'r3 r 3 r i
d'73 r c'
 3' T3 a C3 60 OS 1h V m  1 t cj CStttIttttcCttEtCtCCfc  aaaaassasaaaassssaass oRSRsasssRRassaKs saaacjijQjQtstsjiQQtsQ3 c .
ct5s5555cj555s' bbbfesssssssss iii'i  'icu'ij'civ'  ii'iijij'iji CrSSVWkkkkkV S S .
v'Ki's'ii   i iili.i i fe ife     fe fe     fe   fe         Natalus Chilonatalus brevimanus sp.
nov. Natalus micropus J.
A. Allen Bull.
Am.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. Ill p. 169 November 14 1890.
Type. Adult S in alcohol No.
15.835 United States National Museum Old Providence Island Caribbean Sea.
Presented by Chas.
B. Cory.
Specific characters.
 Slightly smaller than Natalus micropus Dobson 1 from Jamaica and with relatively longer ears and shorter fingers.
Color apparently paler than in N. micropus
General remarks.
 Dr. J.
A. Allen recorded the occurrence of this bat on the island of Old Providence as long ago as 1890 but with only a single individual at hand he naturally considered it the same as the Jamaican species.
On comparing fiftyseven specimens from Old Providence with three from Jamaica I find a slight but remarkably constant difference.
Taking into consideration the perfect isolation of the two forms it seems best to apply to them binomial names.
The characters are well brought out in the following table of measurements.
The apparent lighter color of N. brevimanus may be due to the bleaching effect of alcohol as I have seen no skins and both lots of specimens have been preserved for an unknown length of time.
Micronycteris microtis sp.
nov. Type. Adult  skin and skull No.
if f f f  United States National Museum.
Collected at Greytown Nicaragua by Dr. L. F. H. Birt.
Specific characters.
 Smaller than Micronycteris minutus Gervais thumb foot calcar and membranes as in M. megalotis Gray  ear from meatus about half as long as forearm  middle lower premolar relatively larger than in M. megalotis  general color woodbrown scarcely paler on ventral surface.
Fur and color.
 The fur is distributed precisely as in M. megalotis except that there is a slightly more extensive sprinkling of hairs on the dorsal surface of forearm.
Fur on middle of back about 10 mm.
in length.
Color uniform woodbrown slightly richer on dorsal surface.
Hairs on body both dorsally and ventrally nearly white through basal third.
Ears.
 Ears densely furred on basal half externally the fur running up along anterior border to within 5 mm.
of tip.
Distal half 1 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1880 p. 443. bare with a few very fine scattered hairs.
In form the ears are much like those of M. megalotis.
Their tips however are more abruptly narrowed a condition made still more apparent by their much smaller size.
Inner surface of auricle with eight sharply defined cross ridges arising at posterior border and extending about halfway across ear.
The distance between the uppermost and lowermost ridge is about 5 mm.
Feet.
 Foot distinctly shorter than calcar and slightly more than half as long as tibia.
Skull.
 In the type the brain case is more elevated immediately behind the orbits and the zygomata are less flaring than in the skulls of 31. megalotis with which I have compared it but these differences may prove to be individual.
Teeth.
 When viewed from above the crowns of the three lower premolars appear to be of approximately equal size though the second is slightly smaller than either of the others.
In 31. megalotis the crown of the middle lower premolar is very conspicuously smaller than the first.
In other respects the teeth of the two species appear to be identical.
General remarks.
 Micronyeteris microtis is so different from the other described species of the genus that it needs no special comparison with any.
From 31. megalotis its nearest geographical ally its small ears and uniform wood brown color separate it at a glance.
Yet it is probably most closely related to 31. megalotis and 31. hirsuta since 31. behnii and 31. minuta the only other known species are distinguished by differences in the proportions of the parts of the fingers and feet to say nothing of the peculiar attachment of the wings in 31. minuta.
In the type of 3Iicroiycteris microtis the exact form of the nose leaf cannot be determined.
The free upright portion of the leaf however appears to be shorter and broader than in either of the races of 31. megalotis.
The whole leaf is finely pubescent.
The striation of the inner side of the ear is very different in 3Iicronycteris microtis and 31. megalotis.
In the latter instead of eight sharply defined ridges crowded into the space of 5 mm. there are thirteen ill defined stria
with a distance of nearly 10 mm.
between the first and last.
Micronyeteris megalotis mexicanus subsp.
nov.
Type.
 Adult 9 in alcohol No.
52105 United States National Museum Biological Survey collection.
Collected at Plantinar 22 Jalisco Mexico April 4 1892 by E. W. Nelson.
Original number 2389.
Subspecific characters.
 About the size of typical Micronycteris megalotis Gray but with longer middle finger and apparently lighter color.
General remarks.
 While the Mexican material at hand is fairly satisfactory lacking only skins for the accurate determination of color characters the South American series is very deficient.
Yet the nine specimens that I refer to true megalotis agree very closely among themselves and differ fairly constantly from the Mexican form.
The color appears to be paler in the Mexican specimens but as all are preserved in alcohol no special weight can be attached to this fact.
The real characters of the two forms are shown in the accompanying table of measurements.
Dobson's key to the species of Micronycteris  ' Schizostoma ' rearranged and extended to include the two new forms just described is as follows  First phalanx of middle finger conspicuously shorter than second  forearm 47 M. behnii Peters.
First phalanx of middle finger approximately equal to second  forearm 3040.
Wings from tibise  metacarpal of thumb about equal to remaining parts  calcar shorter than foot .
.
M. minuta Gervais.
Wings from tarsus or metatarsus  metacarpal of thumb much longer than remaining parts  calcar longer than foot.
Legs and forearms conspicuously hairy.
M. hirsuta Peters.
Legs and forearms essentially bare.
Ear from meatus about onehalf forearm M. microtis Miller.
Ear from meatus about twothirds forearm.
Longest finger 6064 .
M. megalotis megalotis Gray.
Longest finger 6872 .
M. megalotis mexicanus Miller.
Glossophaga longirostris sp.
now Type.
 Adult 9 skin and skull No.
8046 Bangs collection Santa Marta Mountains near Santa Marta Colombia February 10 1898.
Collected by W. W. Brown Jr.
Original number 60.
Specific characters.
 Much larger than any species hitherto described  skull large and greatly elongated color darker than in either phase of G. soricina.
1898.
'jBBasou.joimuAY cm r co co cc  TfTP      T Tj Tf T TT TT  TT TT JU8 asoa jo qSjajj x   cc cc i cc cc cc icccococetcocotcccccccoccc 'stiSbjcx X T i cc c' co cc Tf co co cr r ccx cc cm cc tccr co coco co'cc i so'tcc i so rttMeajoqipTAV i 13 
cc f r i i. t t io io uc r r c ic umojo aiojj JB3 rp CC cm id t i I 1 tCC CN rj r cc lc cc cc t trco cc i co  tv t snjcacn inoaj jBg i CM CN CN 1  cm cc 1 cm CN CC Tf TCC Tf Tt CM CN CN CN CN M CN CN CN CM CM CN CN CM CN CM CN xtitfTJqd pg CO CO CO CC rftCCtPcCCCCCCCtJ cc  cc f re r f   t t  i  xamuqd s CM cc cc to Tf CC  cc CN CO CO Tf X X cc oi cc r re  re re re cc cc re cc  re O ITdjB0T48ni 'C f X hN c t CC CM CN CM CN CN CN CN CM tDOOOOOOOOQOOOOQH CN CM CM CC CM CC CC CC CN CN CC CC CC CN CN CC Cs CM laSatj jsaSaoi X C CO O CN M lO f lococccccccccccc NHHNOCOCOtOJHONOW co co co i co rco co o co i i co t r1 rc CO qranqx CO 00 00000009 CC 5C CO rf ci CD x o x c.
r. O O O X C5 X CJ c c CM ' tUJEBJOJ Tf CO CO 4 cm cc cc  'Cc r 1 CC CC cc cc cc cc cc 1 j4 t CO CO cc cc cm cc  laiocs o io co id  cc co o. cccccccc Iccccccrccccccccccccccc CO id 50 100 CO  x ao o x o o x o T ' CO CO T odrt05coccoc5coco o   ac  OS tqix to cn ic uc w Tf ir r io in Tt co tp rj rf' 
rc o j lc cc rt uc iO iO iq co co iQ co CN irei IS I 1 1 122 CM CO  CO CC CN cc rIC IC CM CM rf 1 1  c LC cc re Hir 1 lr.rtr.i   rt  rH M H CI ipoq paB pB8H qj8ua Bjox o o wi'cor.'
18 X9S 'b'bCH'bCHi'o'bo 'bot'oo'DO'ooooto jaqranx  i   K i x c  CC CN   f T lO IC K C M 1 C  O C  c x r. N  1 l t  ric c.    3 rt rt rx rt rt   '  '   o I
r cs C3 S .2 6C a o o c o .
c cs  5 O O   ' Q K  O 5  c 5 ts   2 5 wh   1111 SftW5355556ggg '5 c 3      c3 cf   cs  cf cf oT.g .    g  n gg g a a s g  03 M o o c o  c o u o o ac X 5D 50 v. X w s ci i B B O sso 0 a  0 .
.  9  r r f  V ' v e    0 J 0 '     i. o .
o J v.
Ci iv. vi vj C 'C       Cl  C v. Ci Cl Ci 2 vl   
 i 


K 


J



3 S S    

ri o   h  t r  r'.
 0 Vj  Vj .
tj . .
. V 'c  V  V cv          '' N S S S S.' n  N         331 a o o Fur and color.
 In quality and distribution the fur resembles that of G. soricina.
It is 7 mm.
in length on middle of back slightly longer on throat and shorter on belly.
Color above dark hair brown slightly tinged with Prout's brown the hairs everywhere very pale hair brown through basal twothirds or threefourths.
Belly light broccoli brown becoming much darker on chest and throat.
Ears.
 As nearly as can be determined from the dried specimen the ears are essentially as in G. soricina though considerably larger and apparently with broader tragus.
Skull.
 Aside from its conspicuously larger size the skull of Glossoohaga longirostris differs from that of G. soricina in its relatively longer rostrum the sides of which are more nearly parallel less strongly arched braincase and in the narrowness of the backward prolongation of the bony palate behind the plain of the last molar.
In G. soricina the width of the bony palate at the constriction immediately behind the last molar is contained only twice in the distance from the latter point to the tip of the hamular.
In G. longirostris it is contained nearly two and onehalf times.
Teeth.
 In the only known specimen of Glossophaga longirostris an adult though by no means aged individual  the incisors have all been shed.
Distinct traces of the alveoli can still be seen in the mandible but these are nearly obliterated in the upper jaw.
Whether this condition is normal as in the genus Lichonycteris 2 it is of course impossible to say.
In much older individuals of G. soricina and G. truei 3 the incisors are invariably present so far as my observation has gone.
In relative size the premolars and molars are essentially as in G. soricina.
All however are very distinctly narrower.
Or in other words the teeth have shared in the general elongation of the jaws without undergoing any proportional increase in width.
In the lower premolars where the characters are most strongly marked the width of each tooth is appreciably less than in G. soricina while the longitudinal extent of the three together exceeds the same measurement in G. soricina by nearly one millimetre.
Measurements.
 Total length 80  4 tail 18  4 tibia 16  foot 10 thumb 9  forearm 39 longest finger 80 ear 14.
4 Skull total 2 Thomas Ann.
 Mag.
Nat.
Hist. ser.
6 XVI p. 55 July.
1895.
5 H. Allen Science N. S. V No.
108 p. 153 January 22 1897.
'Collector's measurement.
length 23.4 19.8  5 basilar length 19.8 16.2  zygomatic breadth 10.8 9.6  last molar to tip of haniular 7 5.6  last width of bonypalate behind molars 2.4 2.2  mandible 15.8 13  maxillary tooth row 8.2 6.8  mandibular tooth row 8.6 7.
General remarks.
 Glossophaga longirostris needs no close comparison with other members of its genus.
Should the early deciduous incisors prove to be a constant character the animal will probably require at least subgeneric separation from the forms related to 6r.
soricina.
REITHRONYCTERIS gen. nov.
Glossophaginse.
Type Eeithronycteris apliylla sp.
nov. Generic characters.
 Dental formula as in Phyllonycteris i 2 z 2  c  zr  P m  r  m  f32  zygomatic arches incomplete as in Hemiderma  floor of braincase from basisphenoid forward elevated out of its usual position so that the roof of the posterior nares is formed by two longitudinal folds given off by the pterygoids and nearly meeting in the median line in the region usually occupied by the basisphenoid and presphenoid figures 3 and 4  calcar ab'sent  nostrils perforating a disc shaped elevation which lacks a true leaf or free pointed process above the conditions are exactly reproduced in Brachyphylla  ears small and separate  tongue broader than in Phyllonycteris and more abruptly narrowed at tip the papillae short and stiff tail about as long as femur.
General remarks.
 Reithronycteris is a very aberrant member of the subfamily Glossophagince.
Its broad teeth heavy rostrum massive lower jaw and broad tougue with short papillae remove it widely from extreme forms such as Chceronycteris and Lichonycteris.
In its reduced nose leaf and in the form of the mandible and of the mandibular teeth it resembles Brachyphylla.
Whether these characters indicate any real affinities with the Stenodermata is however very questionable.
6 In addition to these less important characters Reithronycteris differs from all other bats with which I am acquainted in the structure of the interpterygoid region.
Measurements in parenthesis are those of an adult female Glossophaga soricina.
from Cuernavaco Morelos Mexico No.
36017 TJ.
S. Nat.
Mus.
 6 Since this paper has been in type I have received the late Dr. Harrison Allen's monograph of the Glossophagina
Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
 N. S. XIX pt.
II pp.
237266 June 1898.
Here Brachyphylla is united with Phyllonycteris to form the group ' Brachyphyllina' placed at that end of the glossophagine series nearest the Stenodermatinse.
Reithronycteris aphyllasp.
nov.
Type.
 Adult  in alcohol No.
9 Museum of the Institute of Jamaica.
Collected in Jamaica.
No further history.
Specific characters.
 External appearance much as in Phyllonycteris sezekorni Peters 7 but muzzle conspicuously broader and terminating in a discshaped rudimentary nose leaf like that of Brachyphylla cavemarum.
Feet relatively larger thau in Phyllonycteris sezekorni and interfemoral membrane much less developed.
Skull broader and more heavily built than that of P. sezekorni aud lacking the slender but complete zygomatic arches often present in the latter.
8 Teeth conspicuously shorter and broader than in Phyllonycteris sezekorni front lower molar very slightly larger than succeeding ones not greatly elongated as in P. sezekorni.
Color of specimen preserved in alcohol for an unknown period light yellowish brown.
Fur and color.
 The fur is short about 6 mm.
in length on middle of back 4 mm.
on belly  it is very closely confined to the body barelv reaching the membranes.
Color both above and below light yellowish brown.
Ears and membranes light brown.
Ears.
 The ears are short when laid forward they reach just beyond inner canthus of eye.
Anterior border strongly convex from base to a little above middle then nearly straight to narrowly rounded off tip.
Posterior border slightly concave below tip then convex the curve about the same as that of anterior border to base.
Posteriorbase in line with upper lip the distance from cornerof mouth a little less than from the latter point to chin.
A wart concealed by the hair about as large as eye midway between corner of mouth and posterior base of ear.
Inner surface of ear with seven ill defined cross ridges.
Tragus a little less than half height of ear.
Anterior border gently and evenly convex from base to acicular tip.
Posterior border with four deep scallops subtending as many prominent tooth like projections of which the basal is less developed than the others it does not show in the view from which figure was taken.
Feet.
 Foot very large fully threefourths as long as tibia the toes deeply cleft and provided with large claws.
No trace of calcar.
7 This comparison is made with specimens from Nassau Bahamas.
These may prove to be different from the typical Cuban form.
5 Dobson basing his description on Jamaican material states that in Pliyllonycteris the zygomatic arches are incomplete.
This is not true of the Bahaman specimens.
There is little reason however to believe that the Jamaican Phyllonycteris with pointed nose leaf is the same as that found in the Bahamas and no certainty that either is true sezekorni.
1898.
335 Membranes.
 Wings full and ample attached at middle of tibia.
Uropatagium reduced to a narrow frill scarcely wider than the fleshy part of the thigh and reaching not quite to middle of tibia.
Tail included to middle in membrane.
Tongue.
 The tongue figure 5 while distinctly of the glossophagine type is considerably broader in proportion to its length than in any of the other members of the group that I have examined.
At the tip it narrows very abruptly to an unusually acute point.
The terminal area of elongated stiff papillse has much the same general shape as in Phyllonycteris sezekorni allowance being made for the difference arising from the greater breadth of the tongue but Fig.
2. Head of Phyllothe individual papillae are shorter and of tSXgFiX  re  ifo  tagth.
 that the media b.
Slightly enlarged groove is less conspicuous this difference is very difficult to represent in the drawing.
Skull.
 The skull figure 3 is larger and more massively built than that of Phyllonycteris or any other glassophagine genus with which I am acquainted.
The rostrum is especially broad and deep.
Face line straight from nostril to middle of brain case  a well developed sagittal crest and lambdoid crest  bony palate behind molars narrower than in Phyllonycteris sezekorni.
The hamular processes are very broad and strongly concave internally the resulting form quite different from that in Phyllonycteris or Glossophaga.
The structure of the floor of the brain case has already been referred to.
Unfortunately Fig.
3.
 Skull of Reithronyeteris aphylla.
About 1J times natural size.
the type is so old that it is impossible to trace the sutures in this part of the skull but the longitudinal folds forming the roof of the posterior nares are apparently given off by the pterygoids.
In figure 4 is shown a diagrammatic cross section  just in front of the hamulars.
 Mandible very heavy and massive especially  c S t in the region of the symphysis.
It is quite un.
.
.. B j i j n Yig.
4.
 Diagramlike that of any other member of the Glossophamatic cross section qince and closely resembles that of Brachythrough pteryL 77 11 U  J  L S ldS and fl  0r  f pny I la allowance being made for its much brain case at resmaller size.
g' l0n marked ab Teeth.
 In number and arrangement the r yoTd b.sp.bteeth agree with those of Phyllonycteris sezekorni sisphenoid.
but in form they are even less typically glossophagine than is especially the case with the mandibular teeth which strongly resemble those of Brachyphylla cavemarum.
In relative size the teeth agree with those of Phyllonycteris sezekorni except that the front upper premolar is larger the second upper premolar smaller and the front lower molar much shorter.
The lower premolars are less crowded than in P. sezekorni.
Measurements.
 Total length 88  head 28  greatest breadth of muzzle in front of eyes 10 eye to eye 8 eye to tip of muzzle 10.4  ear from meatus 16  ear from crown 13  width of ear 12  tragus 8  tail 12  free part of tail 6  tibia 22.8  foot 17  claws 5  width of uropatagium at middle of femur 6  forearm 48  thumb 14 second finger 37  third finger 84  fourth finger 66 fifth finger 64 penis 10.
Skull greatest length 26 basilar length 20  interorbital breadth 5.4  mastoid breadth 12.4  depth of brain case 9  depth of rostrum at anterior end of first molar 6  width of palate between last molars 5  last molar to tip of hamular 7.8  upper tooth row exclusive of incisors 8  greatest length of mandible 16.6  depth of mandible at space between premolars 3  lower tooth row exclusive of incisors 9.
General remarks.
 Reithronycteris aphyllaneeds close comparison with only one described species the Phyllonycteris poeyi of Gundlach.
8 This bat from the  Kaffeepflanzung Fuudator Cuba is still wholly unknown except for the rather meagre original description.
In size color general structure of the nose leaf and absence of calcar it agrees very closely with Reithronycteris 8 Monatsber.
K. Akad.
Wissensch. Berlin 1860 p. 817.
1898.
337 aphylla but the ear is longer and narrower 18.5x11 instead of 16x12 the rudimentary nose leaf quite different in form 5.75x4.
5 instead of 4x6 the tail is shorter especially in its free portion and the forearm and fingers are slightly shorter.
These differences coupled with the seeming impossibility Fig.
5.
 Tip of tongue dorsal that anyone should consider animals surface of Reithronycteris so widely different in aspect as Phylaphylla a and Phyllonycteris  .
  j t 7   sezekorni b.
About 5 times lonycteris sezekorni and Keithronycteris natural size.
aphylla as possibly individual variations of one and the same species 9 make it appear more reasonable to apply a new specific name to the Jamaican bat.
9 Gundlach says under Phyllonycteris sezekorni   Die Vergleichung einer grosseren Anzahl von Exemplaren wird iibrigens entscheiden miissen ob diess eine selbstiindige Art ist oder ob sie mit der vorhergehenden zu vereinigen sein wird.
338 proceedings of the academy of 1898.
June 7.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twentyeight persons present.
The deaths of Professors Jules Marcou and Fridolin Sandberger Correspondents were announced.
June 14.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M. D. in the Chair.
Twentyfive persons present.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication    List of Fishes collected at the Canary Islands by Mr. O. F. Cook with Descriptions of Four New Species.
By David Starr Jordan and James Alexander Gunn Jr.  Hyalodendron navalium a New Genus and Species of Euplectillid Sponge.
By J. Percy Moore.
June 21.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Nineteen persons present.
A paper entitled A New Chipmunk from northeastern China by Gerrit S. Miller Jr. was presented for publication.
June 28.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Thirteen persons present.
The Committee on the Hayden Geological Memorial Award reported in favor of conferring the medal and the interest on the fund for 1898 on Professor Otto Martin Torell the Director of the Geological Survey of Sweden in recognition of the value of his contributions to the literature of geological science his able direction of the Swedish Geological Survey and the eminence of his standing among geologists.
The award was made by the Academy in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee.
The following were ordered to be printed  
