DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW GRAY FOXES.
BY GERRIT 8.
MILLER JR.
The United States National Museum contains numerous specimens of small gray foxes from Central America south of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.
These represent two hitherto undescribed species one from the arid tropical coast of Yucatan the other from the humid tropical region of Guatemala and Chiapas.
To the kindness of Mr. D. G. Elliot I owe the opportunity to compare these animals with the type of Urocyon jraterculiis the property of the Field Columbian Museum.
Dr. C Hart Merriam has placed at my disposal the Mexican and Guatemalan gray foxes in the Biological Survey collection I publish this paper here by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution Urocyon parvidens sp.
nov.
Type d' skiu and skull No.
H United States National Museum collected at Merida Yucatan by A. Schott.
Original number 385.
General characters.
 Most like Urocyon fraterculus Elliot from San Fehpe Yucatan but teeth smaller tail shorter and color more fulvous.
Color.
 Fur of body composed of two kinds of hair one short dense and woolly the other long stiff and sparse.
Except in the whitish areas where they are pale to base the hairs of the under fur aie cinereous through lower third then creambuff or pinkish buff to tip.
The long hairs are whitish at base conspicuously paler than the bases of the under fur gradually shading to dark brown near middle  the tip black.
Between the black tip and the brown median area is a conspicuous white ring the base of which is level with the tijs of the under fur.
The varying combinations of the buff of the under fur and the white rings and black tips of the longer hairs give the dorsal surface its color.
On the head the under fur here darkened to tawny ochraceous and the white rings  Urocyon eineroargentatus fraterculus Elliot Field Columbian Museum Publication 11 Zoological Series i No.
3 p. 80 May 1896. are most conspicuous.
From ears to base of tail the black and white predominate producing a clear gray blackening irregularly along median line and very faintly tinged with buff.
On the sides the buff becomes more conspicuous and slightly darker and on the sides of the belly both white and black practically disappear.
Chin upper side of muzzle and posterior half of upper lip dusky.
Cheeks sides of muzzle throat and median line to base of tail buffy white.
Inner sides of thighs and area between them white.
Bases of ears area behind ears on sides of neck and across chest ochraceous buff.
Distal half of ears duller than base.
Inner surface buffy white.
Outer sides of front legs and posterior surface of hind legs ochraceous buff'.
Anterior surface of hind leg and dorsal surface of pes buffy white.
Soles and palms ochraceous buff.
Tail gray with a black dorsal stripe and tip and illdefined ventral buffy area.
Skull.
 The skull is exactly similar to that of Urocyon fratercuhis.
It therefore needs no comparison with that of any of the members of the cinereoargeiiteus group.
Measurements of skull of type greatest length 102 basal length 94.4 basilar length 92 palatal length median 47 nasals median 30 zygomatic breadth 53 interorbital breadth 20.4 breadth across postorbital processes 30.4 greatest breadth of brain case 40.6 mastoid breadth 36.4 greatest depth of brain case 33.6 space between audital bullae 5.6 upper toothrow exclusive of incisors 41 mandible 74 mandibular toothrow exclusive of incisors 46.
Teeth.
 The teeth of Urocyon parvldens are uniformly much smaller than in U. fmterculus but the differences are most conspicuous in the first molar and the second third and fourth premolars.
The greatest diameter of the crown of the first molar in three specimens of U. parvidensis respectively 8.8 8.8 and 8.6.
In the type of U. fraterculus it is 10.6.
The greatest diameter of the crown of the carnassial in three skulls of U. imrvidens is 9.2  The skull of the type of U. fraterculus measures  greatest length 101  basal length 93  basilar length 91  palatal length median 48  nasals median 31  zygomatic brtadth 53.6 interorbital breadth 19.6  breadth across postorbital processe.s 30  greatest breadth of brain case 40  mastoid breadth 37.4  greatest depth of braincase 31  space between audital bullae 6 upper toothrow exclusive of incisors 44  mandible 74  mandibular tooth row exclusive of incisors 48.6.
9.4 aud 92. lu the type of U. fratereulusit is 11.
The second and third premolars in U. fratercndus are long and crowded while in U. jmrvidens they are narrow and widely spaced.
The height is about the same in each.
The length of each of these teeth including cingulum equals or exceeds the height in U. fratereulusbut is much less than the height in U. parvidens
In this respect U. parvidensresembles the members of the cineveoargenteus group.
In the mandibular teeth the differences are of the same kind but somewhat less defined.
Length of first lver molar 9.2 in JJ.
pjarvidens 10.6 in U. fratereulus
Measurements.
 Type Total length 720 tail vertebra 240 hind foot 95 ear from meatus 51 ear from crown 46.
Average of four specimens including the type Total length 722 tail vertebrae 222 hind foot 93 ear from meatus 50 ear from crown 46 all from dry specimens.
Speeimens examined.
 Four all from the type locality.
General remarks.
 Urocyon fratereulus and U. po.rvidens form a group readily distinguishable from the relatives of U. cinereoargenteus by their slender feet and relatively larger and more inflated audital bullae.
The bullae in these small skulls are much larger than in members of the cinereoargenteus group of approximately the same size aud fully equal to those of the largest forms.
The' are more abruptly elevated above level of basioccipital Avhen skull is held upside down and the outer anterior face slopes away much more abruptly.
They are placed more closely together than in the members of the cinereoargenteus group.
In a specimen of U. littoralis only 193 in greatest length the space between the bullae is 8.4 aud in the other forms this relative spacing is maintained.
Urocyon guatemalae sp.
nov.
Type adult d skin and skull No 76723 United States National Museum Biological Survey Collection collected at Nenton Guatemala December 16 1895 by E W. Nelson and E A. Goldman.
Original number 8801.
General characters.
 Most like Urocyon littoralis Baird from the Santa Barbara Islands California but color darker and richer.
Carnassial tooth more robust than in U. littoralis.
Audital bullae  Tlie type of U. fratereulusmeasures  total length 750  tail vertebrje 290  hind foot 95 from skin.
slightly more iuflated than in the other members of the cinereoargenteus gronp.
Color.
 Type specimen in unworn winter coat.
Quality of fur and arrangement of color bands as in U. parvidensand the other members of the genus.
Dorsal surface clear gray formed by the nearly equal mixture of the black tips and white sublerminal rings of the coarse hairs.
Under fur pale creambuff appearing at surface only when hair is disarranged.
Top of head tinged with tawny.
On the sides the black tips are less conspicuous than on the back and the buff of the under fur appears distinctly at the surface.
Belly ochraceous buff except along median line and betAveen hind legs where it is dull white.
Base of ear and area behind ear tawny ochraceous this area extending back to front leg but much suffused with gray except on and close to ear.
Distal half of ear thickly sprinkled with dusky hairs which consideralily dull the oshraceous.
Inner surface of ear whitish.
Muzzle upper lip and chin dark brown.
Cheek between eye and lip and region beneath the ochraceous area under ear dull white continuous Avith Avhite of throat.
Dorsum of manus and pes a coarse dark grizzle of black white and tawny.
Inner side of hind leg white outer and posterior side dull ochraceous.
Palms and soles dull ochraceous.
The gray of the sides of the belly extends down the front of the fore leg to join the gray of the foot.
Outer surface of foreleg dull ochraceous.
Tail gray heavily shaded with black.
A broad black dorsal stripe and conspicuous black tip.
Under side of tail dull ochraceous.
Specimens in Avoru pelage are less gray than the type and the tawny areas are brighter and more extensive.
Skull  The skull of Uroeyon guatemalce closely resemlles that of U. littoralis but averages slightly larger.
It is much smaller however than that of the ordinary gray fox of Mexico north of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec.
Zygomata slightly less flaring than in U. littoralis.
Audital bullre slightly larger and closer together than in U. littoralis their longitudinal diameter greater relatively to their transverse diameter.
The Avhole surface of the bulla is more evenly rounded than in other members of the cinereoargenteus group in this respect showing an approach to U. jrater cuius and U. parvidens
Compared with that of U. parvidensthe skull of Urocxjon guatemalce is considerably larger while the audital bullteare actually as well as relatively smaller.
Measurements of skull of tye.  Greatest length.
111 basal length 101 basilar length 98 palatal length median 51.4 nasals median 33 zygomatic breadth 60 interorbital breadthi 21.4 breadth across postorbital processes 33 greatest breadth of brain case 44 mastoid breadth 40 greatest depth of brain case 33  space between audital bullae 8  upper tooth row exclusive of incisors 46 mandible 81 mandibular tooth row exclusive of incisors 51.
Teeth.
 The teeth closely resemble those of Urocyon littoralis but are more robust.
This is particularly noticeable in the first molar and the carnassial the crown of the latter is nearly a millimetre shorter and broader than in U. littoralis.
All the teeth are larger than in U. parvidensthough they are of essentially the same form.
Measurements.
 Type total length 830 tail vertebrae 327 hind foot 128.
Average of four specimens from near type locality including type total length 827 tail vertebrse 328 hind foot 120.
A specimen from Tumbala Chiapas total length 786 tail vertebrc 300 hind foot 111.
Specimens examined.
 Ten from the following localities Guatemala Nenton 3 Jacaltenango 1 exact locality unknown 5 Chiapas  Tumbala 1.
General remarks.
 jNIexico north of the Isthmus of Tehuautepec is inhabited by gray foxes of large size and pale color which resemble Urocyon cinereoargenteus scottii Mearns.
These animals are replaced south of the Isthmus by U. fraterculus and U. parvidensin the arid tropical region of Yucatan and by U. guatemalce in the humid tropical region of Guatemala.
..
