A SMALL COLLECTION OF REPTILES AND BatrachiaS FROM EASTERN MONGOLIA.
BY WITMER STONE.
Through the generosity of Messrs. J. Edward aud George Farnum aud of Dr. A. Donaldson Smith the Academy has received a small collection of Reptiles and Batrachians collected by them on an expedition through eastern Mongolia undertaken in MayJuly 1897.
Although none of the species represented are new to science a list of them will prove of value as adding to our knowledge of their geographic distribution.
Batrachia
Rana dybowskii Gtinth.
Three specimens taken east of the Kiughan mountains.
Boulenger regards this Asiatic form as identical Avith the R. temporaria of Europe.
It is probable however that it represents at least a geographic race.
Rana chinensis Osbeck.
One specimen from Khiughan mountains aud two from Lamamio.
This frog is clearly distinct from R. esculenta
Boulenger regarded it as a subspecies in his Catalogue of the Batrachia Salieniia aud named it japonica.
R. marmorata of Hallowell has clear priority over this name and according to Boulenger Tailless Batrachia of Europe R. chinensis Osbeck is based upon the same animal and is prior to either.
Bufo japonicus Schleg.
Two specimens from the Tore river.
I follow the British Museum Catalogue in regarding the Asiatic and Japanese animals as identical.
Should they prove recognizable races the above name will apply to the island form.
Bufo raddei Strauch.
One specimen from a lake near Lamamio and seven others from various localities in eastern Mongolia.
One other example from Tore river is almost unicolor above and the pores of the dorsal warts are swollen up into minute pustules.
These peculiarities are probably due to the very strong formalin solution in which this specimen was preserved.
Hyla chinensis immaculata Boetger.
Three specimens of Tree Toads from near Tore river are referred to this form though lack of material for comparison makes a satisfactory identification difficult.
One individual is practically immaculate the others have indistinct dusky spots on the sides and obscure bands on the legs and mottlings on the backs of the tibise and tarsi.
REPTILIA.
Eremias argus Peters.
Four specimens from the Kiughan mountains.
Amphiesma tigrinum Boie.
One specimen from Peking and one from northern Pechili.
Coluber dione Pall.
One adult and one very young specimen from northern Pechili.
The latter is marked with great distinctness.
Halys blomhofli Boie.
One specimen from northern Pechili and another from Mongolia east of the Kiughan mountains The latter has eight upper labials on one side and seven on the other.
NEW AND LITTLEKNOWN SPECIES OF Pristiloma  BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
In the handbooks of American land mollusks published by Mr. W. G. Binney as well as in the more general Manual of Tryon but two species of the genus Pristiloma are recorded  P. Lansingi and P. Stearnsi both described by Thomas Bland in 1875.
The original figures and descriptions may also be found in Binney' s Manual of American Land Shells 1885 and additional information especially as to distribution is given by the same industrious author in the Supplements to the Fifth Volume of Terrestrial Mollusks.
To these sources reference is made for the literature of the species.
A third species apparently of this genus was described from Point Barrow Alaska by Mr. E. Lehnert in 1884 under the name Hyalina arctica  and Mr. E. G. Vanatta has quite recently described a fourth one. In adding the fifth species to the genus I have felt it incumbent on me to redefine and figure Lehnert' s Hyalina arctica until now unfigured and not described with sufficient exactness to insure recognition nor mentioned in the Zoological Record.
Pristiloma is probably closely allied to Conulus differing from that genus chiefly so far as known in the ribbed or plaited jawBut it is only in P. Lamingi and P. Stearnsi that this form of jaw has been demonstrated and the other species herein considered to be congeneric with those mentioned are referred to that genus solely upon the resemblance of the shells.
Some of them may prove to be depressed forms of Conulus as Dall in Hit.
suggests to me.
Pristiloma Taylori n. sp.
PI.
IX figs.
6 7 8.
Shell imperforate discoidal thin transparent corneous clearly showing the yellow soft parts when these are dried in it  surface  These Proceedings p. 120.
That this is the case is shown by the fact that it has hitherto been referred to P. Stearnsi as a synonym though it is much more nearly allied to P. Lansingi.
smooth and glossy with faint growthstrise.
Spire almost flat comparatively narrow slightly more than half the greatest diameter of the shell whorls four the nucleus rather large whorls slowly increasing the last wide double the width of the preceding equably rounded at the periphery flattened beneath with a deep indentation around the axis.
Aperture oblique broadly lunate peristome simple thin and acute the upper termination inserted decidedly above the periphery basocolumellar margin straightened.
Alt. 1.1 greatest diameter 2.5 lesser 2.16 mm.
Nanaimo Vancouver Island near the waterworks Rev.
George W. Taylor July 25 1895.
This species is named in recognition of Mr Taylor's services to raalacological science and especially to the conchology of British America.
It differs conspicuously from all the species hitherto known by the narrow spire the last whorl embracing a much more considerable portion of the preceding the conspicuously wider aperture and the almost flat upper surface.
Generic position unverified.
Pristiloma arctica Lehnert.
PL IX figs.
3 4 5.
Hyallna arctica Lehnert Science Record ii p. 172 June 16 1884 Boston S. E. Cassino  Co..
Through the kindness of Pi'of.
W. H. Dall I have been enabled to figure one of the original specimens of this species.
No.
108 228 U. S. National Museum.
It is a glossy shell with the general features of P. Lansingi  growthstride faint spire lowconic whorls 4f  slowly and regularly increasing the last not disproportionately wide as in P. Taylori but about as in P. Lansingi.
Aperture narrowly crescentic as in the lastnamed species.
It measures alt. 1.58 diam. 2.66 mm.
The width of the spire a little exceeds twothirds the greatest diameter of the shell.
Point Barrow.
Alaska found among moss lichens and other plants used for packing material.
The specimen figured had been broken on the front of the bodywhorl and the outline Ihere has been restored in figures 4 and 5.
It diflfers from P. Stearnsi Bid.
in surface sculpture and smaller size from P. Lansingi Bid.
 with which it agrees in the characters mentioned as well as in the nearly vertical aperture it differs in the lower submedian position of the periphery and in wanting the denticulate lipril so prominent in that species.
For comparison I have figured a specimen of P. Lansingi PI.
IX figs.
1 2 as the original figures given by Bland and reproduced by Binney are rather crude.
This specimen measures alt. 1.58 greatest diameter 2.62 lesser diam 2.4 mm. almost exactly the same as P. arctica.
It has fully 5 whorls.
Whether the liprib will prove a constant character of P. Lansingi and constantly wanting in P. arctica can only be decided by larger series than have yet been collected but the slightly greater number of whorls of Lansincji in a shell of the.
same size with the higher position of the periphery apparently indicate that P. arctica is specifically distinct and unless specimens of intermediate characters come to light it must stand as a species.
Prof. William H. Dall tells me that he collected arctica at Coal Harbor in the Shumagin islands and it was taken by Turner at Unalashka.
He believes it may prove to be a flattopped species of Conulus.
The species of Pristiloma now known may be recognized by the following key a.
 Shell sculptured with radial grooves above lip simple and acute.
b.
 Grooves crowded not very deep spire conic whorls about 7 diam 3 or 4 mm.
.
 P. Stearnsi Bid..
b'  Grooves deep separated the whorls with a corona of low tubercles whorls 5i diam.
2.56 mm.
P. Pilsbryi Van.
a'.
 Shell nearly smooth throughout.
b.
 Aperture broadly lunate no lip callus spire narrow almost flat whorls 4 the last wide diameter more than double the altitude diam.
2.5 alt.
1.1 mm. P. TayloriVAs.
b'.
 Aperture narrowly crescentic spire lowconic whorls regularly widening diameter less than double the altitude.
c.  A denticulate liprib within the margin of the outer lip periphery above the middle whorls 5 alt.
1.58 diam.
2.62 mm.
.
.
P. Lausingi Bid..
e'.
 Xo liprib periphery submedian  whorls 4f  alt.
1.58 diam.
2.66 mm P. arctica Lehn..
ASHMUNELLA A NEW GENUS OF HELICES.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND T. D. A. COCKERELL. The boundaries of New Mexico and Arizona fairly define a region of arid plains from which rise numerous mountain ranges upon whose summits the humidity refused by the dry and warmer air of the plains is precipitated.
Upon the elevations thus set apart by the circumstance of a moister and colder climate the snails inhabiting the region are chiefly found.
And standing islandlike in a waterless sea the mountains exhibit to a considerable extent the peculiarities of insular faunas each range having its own special assembly of forms specific or varietal in addition to a series of species common to ranges over the greater part of the region.
A characteristic element in this fauna is ihe series of helicoid enails now segregated under the generic name Ashmunella so called in recognition of the fact that the Rev.
E. H. Ashmun of Albuquerque N. M. discovered most of the species.
This genus occurs in New Mexico from the latitude of Santa Fe to the White mountains and westward to S. E. Arizona.
It is not impossible that it may yet be found in the Sierra Madre mountains of Mexico  but it surely does not extend to California or Colorado.
It is an interesting coincidence if nothing more that its northern limit is nearly that of the supposed southern limit of glaciers in the Rocky mountain region during the ice age.
The more important characters of Ashmunella may be stated as f olloAvs  Generic Characters of Ashmunella. The shell oflfers no characters different from the Triodopsis or  We would here acknowledge our indebtedness to Mr. E. G. Vanatta for the illustrations of this paper the dissections from which they were drawn and various observations on the subject.
One of the authors communicated the substance of this paper to the Academy of Natural Sciences at the meeting of January 10 1899 brief notices of that communication appearing in Science ix new series p. 182 and Nautilus xii p. 107.
 The internal anatomy is known in A. miorhyssa only from specimens collected by Prof. C. H. T. Townsend.
Mesodon sections of Polygyra.
It is helicoid depressed and umbilicated dull colored not banded so far as known with lunate aperture and refleied peristome parietal tooth when present simple not Vshaped or biramose.
External features of the soft parts as in normal Polygyra or Epiphragmophora species.
In A. viiorhyssa the whole foot is grayish white  the tentacles and the dorsal surface of the animal anteriorly are dark plumbeous.
Retractor muscles of buccal mass and tentacles of the ordinary type the right ocular and tentacular retractor passing between the c
and  branches of the genital system.
cT system Penis composed of a narrow upper portion and an abruptly much more capacious lower portion lumen with three strong longitudinal ribs along the outer wall and numerous much smaller folds elsewhere no papilla or distinct pilaster.
Penis retractor muscle very short inserted upon the epiphallus near its lower end a portion of it passing to the apex of the penis.
Epiphalius distinctly diflferentiated from both penis and vas deferens very long terminating in a very short jiagellum and the long free vas deferens.
9 system  Vagina moderately long with internal folds continuous with those of the atrium.
Spermatheca long not differentiated into duct and sjyerviatheca proper but consisting of a long somewhat folded tube of nearly equal diameter throughout the apex free and lying near the heart.
Talon simple vermiform.
Other organs as usual fig.
1.
Measurements of the principal organs pulled straight are as follows Length of penis 10 mm.
 of epijhallus 31  of flagellum 2 mm.
Length of spermatheca 27 mm. including the inseparable duct.
The lung is of normal proportions  there is a single large pulmonary vein with numerous much smaller branches on each side  heart at base of kidney the pericardium thin and transparent.
Kidney small and rather short though slightly over double the length of the heart with distinct reflexed ureter the  secondary ureter '  Darmharjileiter   apparently closed throughout.
Jaw fig.
2 quite arcuate with about eight ribs denticulating the basal margin the ends free from ribs.
Radula with 26126 teeth fig.
3 the rhachidian row tricuspid the side cusps small laterals with the usual large mesocone small ectocone and rudimentary entocone marginals with the mesocone bifid at tipj the outer ones with the ectocone split.
The transition from laterals to marginals occurs from the eleventh to the thirteenth teeth.
 Affinities of the Genus. The appearance of the shell is so completely that of Polygyra that in attempting to decide its aflSnities one approaches the question somewhat prejudiced.
Turning to the genitalia we find that the male system is completely that of Epiphragmophora and the Belogonous Helices generally.
The welldeveloped epiphallus and the short but unmistakable flagellum are structures which are wholly foreign to Polygyra.
 Again the long spermatheca with its apex lodged near the heart utterly unlike the short and difierently situated spermatheca of Polygyra is like Epiphragmophora and  By H. A. Pilsbry alone.
 The genitalia of nearly every United States species of Polygyra are known either by the published work of Mr. W. G. Binney or by MS. descriptions and drawings of Messrs. H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta.
other Belogonous genera though peculiar in wanting a differentiated receptacle and duct.
In the genital system therefore P. viiorhyssa has no resemblance to Polygyra and its allies Praticolella and Polygyrella  and in fact could not be included among the Protogonous Helices.
The genitalia are those of the Epijjhallogona or of Belogona which have undergone degeneration of the dart sack and associated mucous glands.
The first of these groups includes the large heavy darkcolored Helices of the West Indies and South America Pleurodonte  and various Oriental forms  CamcBna Planispira etc.
 all quite unlike Ashmunella couchologically.
The characters of the lung and kidney cannot be adequately discussed owing to the lack of published data of sufficient exactness but the high value of these organs in classification demonstrated by a mass of unpublished data demands brief mention here.
In Polygyra the kidney is very long usually over half the entire length of the lung cavity and is band or ribbonshaped while Epiphragmophora has a short kidney hardly onethird the length of the lung cavity.
In A. miorhyssa the kidney is short like that of Epiphragmophora and quite unlike the kidney of any Polygyra yet examined.
The jaw and radula give no characters differentiating .4sirtuneZa from Polygyra Epiphragmophora or numerous other genera of groundliving helices.
The teeth are very similar to those of Polygyra.
In the shell we can find no characters whatever which are not readily paralleled in Polygyra.
Some of the Epiphragmophoras of the islands off California and Lower California are somewhat similar in shell characters.
Upon the Avhole it seems likely that Ashmunella is a member of the Belogona Euadenia or AsiaticoAmerican group of dartSee under Metafrutickola etc. in the Guide to the Study of Helices.
American examples of partial degeneration of these appendages are Epiph ragmophora guadalupiana and the genus Glyptoitonia.
See Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1898 p. 67.
The exceptions are P. septemvoUa and probably its immediate allies with very narrow whorls in which the lung in common with the whole mantle is excessively lengthened in harmony with the narrow cavity of the shell while the kidney and heart retain the form found in species with normally proportioned shells.
This exception is no argument against the value of the form of the kidney as an index of affinity but rather one in its favor.
bearers which has lost the dart apparatus and developed apertural characters in the shell similar to those of Polygyra  though it is possible that the genus is a member of the Epiphallogona with which Ashmunella agrees better technically in the features of the genitalia.
Species of Ashmunella.
A. miorhyssa only is known anatomically but the following species wiU probably be found to belong to the genus.
A. Thomsoniana Ancey.
Helix Levettei var.
Thomsoniana and orobosna Anc Conchologist's Exchange Vol.
ii p. 64 Nov. 1887.
Santa Fe canyon N. M. A. pBeudodonta Dall.
Polygyra pseudodonta Dll Proc.
U. S. Nat'l Mu3. Vol.
lix p. 343 1896.
White Oaks N. M. Ash7nun.
A. pseudodonta capitanensis Ashmun and Ckll. NautQua Vol.
xii p. 131 March 1898.
Capitan mountains N. M. Ashviun.
A. AshmunKBall.
Polygyra Ashmuni Dall Proc.
U. S. Nat'l Mus. Vol.
six p. 342 1896.
Bland N. M. Ashmun.
A. altissima Cockerell.
Polygyra altissima Ckll. Nautilus Vol.
xii p. 76 Nov. 1898.
Summit of Sierra Blanca N. M. 11092 feet Toimsend.
A. cMrioahuaiiA Dall.
Polygyra chiricahuana Dall Proc.
U. S. Nat'l Mus. Vol.
xviii p. 2 1895.
Jemez mountains near Bland N. M. 8000 to 10000 feet Ashmun' Fly Park Chiricahua mountains Ariz. 10000 feet Fisher.
A. rhyssa Dall.
Polygyra rhyssa Dall Nautilus Vol.
xi p. 2 May 1897.
Sierra Blanca N. M. at about 8500 feet Ashmun and Townsend.
A. rhyssa hyporhysia CklL.
Polygyra rhyssa hyporhyssa Ckll.
. Nautilus Vol.
xii p. 77 Nov. 1898.
Sierra Blanca N. M. 9500 feet Townsend.
A. miorhyssa Ball.
Polygyra miorJiyssa Dall Nautilus Vol.
xii p. 75 Nov. 1898.
Eagle Creek Sierra Blanca N. M. Ashmun and Townsend.
The species are unequally related.
Their relationships inter se are shown by the following keys for the determination of known forms' a.
 Aperture strongly trideutate Thomsonmna.
a'.
 Aperture toothless or without teeth on the outer lip.
b.
 Diameter less than double the altitude.
rhyssa including miorhyssa.
b'.
 Diameter about double the altitude.
c.  Surface heavily ribbed a slight basal tooth or none.
altissima.
c'.
 Surface nearly smooth.
 d.  Basal lip with two contiguous teeth a parietal tooth or none pseiidodonta.
d'.
 Basal lip toothless.
.
 Whorls 5 diam.
1214 mm.
.
Ashnuni.
e'.
 Whorls 6 diam.
1619 mm.
 pei'istome slighter chiricakuana.
The three main groups indicated in the above table are Thomsoniana  rhyssa including miorhyssa and hyporhyssa  altissima pseudodonta Ashmuni chiricahuana.
Mr. Cockerell arranges the forms somewhat differently thus  1.
Aperture hardly dentate with at most a small parietal denticle and a callus or pair of low and small denticles on the basal part of the aperture 2 Aperture strongly dentate both on the parietal wall and lip whorls 5 Thomsoniana Ancey.
2.
Shell distinctly ribbed 3 Shell striate or nearly smooth 4 3.
Compact spire elevated diam.
1517 mm.
.
ipsa Dall.
Small and flat diam.
12 mm alils8ima QkW..
4.
Shell compact with rounded whorls spire elevated  last whorl large  striation well marked 5 Flattened with a depressed spire  shell feebly striate or nearly smooth with more or less distinct spiral incised lines  umbilicus wide broadly exposingthe penultimate whorl.
.
.
6  The first key is by Mr. Pilsbry the second by Mr. Cockerell.
13 5.
Larger aperture broader and more circular umbilicus narrow.
miorhyssa Dall.
Smaller aperture semilunar umbilicus wider broadly exposing the penultimate whorl hyporhysm Ckll..
6.
Max.
diam.
less than 15 ram.
7 Max.
diam.
over 15 mm 8 7.
Basal part of aperture with a couple of obtuse denticles pseudodonta Dall.
Basal part of aperture without any denticles.
Ashmuni Dall.
8.
Deeper colored basal part of aperture with a more or less bifid callosity capitanensis Ashmun and Ckll.
Paler  basal part of aperture without any callosity.
chirica huana  Dall  .
It is a matter of taste how many of the above are to be regarded as species.
The characters appear to be uniform in series of specimens and each form inhabits its own special region.
There are three distinct groups the first consisting of rhyssa cdtissima 7niorhysia and hyporhyssa is confined to Sierra Blanca and the immediate vicinity so far as known  the second containing pseudodonta Ashmuni capitanensis and ehiricahuana occurs in the Capitan mountains and vicinity the forms with the bifid basal callus in the Jemez mountains and vicinity and in southeast Arizona forms without a basal callus on aperture  the third possibly distinct from true AshmvneUa includes Thomsoniana from the Santa Fe region.
