ADDITIONS TO THE JAPANESE LAND SNAIL FAUNA.
II.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The discovery of the forms described herein is due to the welldirected industry of Mr. Y. Hirase of Kyoto Japan to whom the Academy is indebted for many Japanese land snails.
There can be httle doubt that the land moUuscan fauna of Japan will prove to be very prolific in specific forms like most insular faunas.
The Clausilias of Japan have been worked up by Dr. 0.
Boettger who in his masterly Clausilietistudlen has laid a firm foundation for future builders.
Subsequent work has been done by Kobelt von Moelleudorff Smith Sykes and the present writer.
Arthur Adams' contribution to the literature of Japanese Clausilias is like all of his Japoniana quite worthless.
Clausilia hakonensis n. sp.
PL XIV figs.
1 2 3.
Shell rather slenderly fusiform moderately attenuated above the earlier 3i whorls scarcely increasing in diameter then gradually increasing to the penultimate whorl which is widest the last whorl being distinctly compressed and tapering.
Whorls 12.
Reddish or olivaceous brown paler below the sutures glossy where not eroded distinctly finely striated obliquely.
Aperture subvertical or slightly oblique ovate the peristome continuous white well expanded.
Superior lamella strong oblique reaching the margin continuous with the spiral lamella but becoming abruptly lower at the junction.
Inferior lamella converging to the superior strongly folded rapidly tapering below becoming verv high stout and very strongly spiral within.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed not visible from the aperture.
Principal plica rather short upper palatal plica short oblique passing into a strong curved lunella which is connected below with the middle of the rather short lower palatal plica somewhat like a Greek letter r inverted.
Length 32 diam.
of penultimate whorl 7 mm.
 length of ajjerture 7.7 width 5 mm.
Hakone Mts.
B. Sclimacker types No.
60.370 coll.
A. N. S. P. A Semiphcedusa differing from all of the platydera group by the strongly spiral and heavily developed inferior lamella and wholly immersed subcolumellar lamella.
The clausilium has the characteristic parallelsided contour of the section.
C. hakonensis will become the type of a new group or  ' Formenkreis ' ' in Hemiphcediisa characterized by the strongly spiral Stereo hcedusalike inferior lamella.
Clausilia awajiensis n. sp.
PI.
XIV figs.
15 16 17.
Shell shortly rimate obesely fusiform thin a little transparent strongly but shortly attenuated above the last whorl decidedly tapering.
Corneous brown the last whorl reddish glossy distinctly finely striate.
Whorls 9.
Aperture small pyriform the peristome Avhite moderately expanded rather thin.
Superior lamella rather thin oblique continuous Avith the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella very low and inconspicuous stronger within and almosi vertically ascending.
Subcolumellar lamella not reaching the lipedge even immersed.
Principal plica long reaching almost to the lip extending inward beyond the lateral lunella.
Upper palatal jlica very short its outer end connected with a rather strong oblique lunella recurved toward its lower end no lower palatal plica.
Clausilium slender tongueshaped emarginate posteriori slowly tapering below.
Length 12 diam.
3 mm.
Fukura Awaji Island Mr. Y. Hirase.
A Hemiphcedusa near C. aurantiaca Bttg.
 but with fewer whorls the lunella more lateral not I shaped a lower palatal plica being absent.
Clausilia subaurantiaca n. .sp.
Pi.
XIV figs.
5 6 7.
Shell slenderly fusiform attenuated above the last whorl rather narrower brown but slightly glossy weakly striate more strongly so on the last whorl.
Whorls nearly 11 the upper convex the last two nearly flat.
Aperture small somewhat oblique retracted and with a wellmarked sinulus above pyriform produced peristome thick well reflexed.
Superior lamella strong oblique continuous with the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella immersed inconspicuous in a front view becoming strong and subvertical within.
Subcolumellar lamella very weak not extendiug upon the expaasion of the lip or immersed.
Plica principalis very long the whorl outside a little swollen above it extending nearly to the lip.
Upper palatal plica extremely short united with the lateral nearly straight lunella no lower palatal plica.
Clausilium long tongueshaped somewhat tapering toward the blunt apex.
Length 16 diam.
3 mm.
Deyai Prov.
Nagato Mr. Y. Hirase.
This Hemiphcedusa differs from C. aurantiaca Bttg.
by wanting a lower palatal plica which in C. aurantiaca makes an Ilike figure with the lunella and the upper palatal plica by the lateral not ventral position of the lunella and the more slender contour.
C. aioajiensu is much more obese.
Clausilia aulacophora n. sp.
PL XIV figs.
18 19 20.
Shell small slender moderately attenuated above opaque dull reddish brown paler above finely striate the last whorl more coarsely so.
Whorb 10 convex the last short compressed laterally hardly narrower than the preceding a little turgid below the suture and at the base.
Aperture small pyriform with welldefined and slightly retracted sinulus.
Peristome white thickened and well expanded the outer margin excavated above.
Superior lamella strong oblique continuous with the spiral lamella and extending to the margin a groove on the right side of it usually producing a notch or emarginalion in the upper margin of the lip and followed by a small rounded tubercle to the right of which there is sometimes a second shallow groove in adult shells.
Inferior lamella immersed becoming strong and subvertical within.
Subcolumellar lamella completely immersed.
Principal plica a half whorl long visible within the aperture.
Upper palatal plica short continuous anteriorly with and curving into the lunella which is united with the middle of the lower palatal plica.
There is a punctiform plica below the latter.
Clausilium long tongueshaped emarginate behind the margins slowly converging toward the apex which is bluntly attenuated.
Length 10 diam.
2.1 mm Fukura Awaji Island Mr. Y. Hirase.
Belonging to the Hemiphredusan group of C. platydera as defined by Dr. Boettger this small species is well disiinguished by the groove in the peristome on the right side of the superior lamella.
Clausilia Hirasei n. sp.
PL XIV figs.
8 9 10 11.
Shell small solid slenderly fusiform regularly tapering above to an obtuse apex glossy irregularly striate chestnut brown.
Whorls 88 rather weakly convex the last two long last whorl somewhat narrower compressed.
Aperture small rather rhombic peristome narrowly expanded a little thickened.
Superior lamella low separated widely from the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella immersed becoming strong and vertical within.
Subcolumellar lamella weak but emerging.
Principal plica less than a half whorl long extending well inward beyond the lateral lunelJa.
Upper palatal plica oblique not united with the lunella which is nearly straight above curved below.
Three short sutural plicae are developed above the upper end of the lunella the second one shortest upper one low  within the ujper end of the spiral lamella there is sometimes an inserted lamella lamella inserta or perhaps this is a recrudescence of the inferior lamella and outside of it there is a short fulcrum lamella fulcrum fig.
10 .. 
and a longer parallel lamella lamella parallela fig.
10 Z.j..
Length 9.3 diam.
2.2 length of aperture 2.2 mm.
Length 7.3 diam.
2.2 mm.
Kagashima Satsuma Y. nirase.
This is so far as I know the smallest Japanese Clausilia known.
Internally it has the straightly vertical inferior lamella of Hemiphcedusa but in several fresh specimens opened I found no clausiliura.
In the development of the sutural plicte it resembles C hijperopUjx.
The superior lamella is widely separated from the spiral lamella and there is a lamella inserta developed in some examples.
The internal complication is greater than in any other Japanese species known to me.
Fig.
10 of Plate XIV is diagrammatic.
It is named in honor of Mr. Y. Hirase of Kyoto who has brought to our knowledge a large number of interesting Japanese land snails.
Clausilia hyperoptyx n. sp.
PL XIV figs.
12 13 14.
Shell small slender moderately atteuu.ited above glossy of a dark rich reddishchestnut color finely and rather irregularly not deeply striate the last whorl densely and more deeply so.
Whorls S convex the last more flattenel a tritle narrower than the preceding.
Aperture ovate the peristome thick expanded whitish at the edge.
Superior lamella rather low vertical attaining the margin widely disconnected from the spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella immersed scarcely visible in a front view strong and vertical within.
Subcolumellar lamella emerging continued to the edge of peristome.
Principal plica about a halfwhorl long visible within the aperture.
Upper palatal plica very short slightly united with the nearly straight oblique lunella which is lateral in position.
Two short sutural plicse developed a little further inward than the upper end of the lunella.
Spiral lamella and inferior lamella of equal length within a rather long lamella fulcrans and a lamella parallela developed each standing free.
ClausiHum rather narrow parallel sided bluntly tapering at the apex.
Length 10 diam.
2.2 length of aperture 2.1 mm.
Loo Choo Islands Mr. Y. Hirase.
This slender darkcolored HemipJuediosa is a beautiful little species distinguished by the two sutural plicae and the development of a fulcrum and parallel lamella as in C. Hirasei.
It differs from that species in the dark color attenuated and concave spire stronger superior lamella and various other details of the closing apparatus.
C. Hirasei and C. hyperoptyx form a new group of Hemijihcedusa characterized as follows Superior lamella widely separated from the spiral lamella  a fulcrum and jDrallel lamella present  sutural plica3 developed  upper palatal plica independent or united with the welldeveloped lunella no lower palatal plica.
Just what relation this group holds to Dr. von Moellendorft's group of C. sublunellata I do not know but as he does not describe the complicated closing apparatus I find in my species I presume it to be quite different.
Clausilia japonica var.
surugae n. v. PI.
XIV fig.
4.
Similar to C. japonica but smaller strongly attenuated above for a longer distance the aperture smaller with rather stronger principal lamella upper palatal fold shorter the lower palatal short or obsolete.
Mikuria Prov.
Suruga Ir Y. Hirase.
Having examined some hundreds of specimens of C. japonica from several localities collected by Mr. Stearns Mr. Hirase Prof. M. R. Gaines and others I conclude that C. nipponensis is hardly tenable as a variety.
The gibbous penultimate and slender last whorl occur sporadically among typical japonica.
The size varies a good deal in C. japonica but the abovedescribed variety presents a peculiar and quite recognizable contour.
EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV.
Figs.
13.
Clausilia hakonensis n. sp.
Fig.
2 natural size.
Fig.
4.
Clausilia japoiica var.
surugce n. var.
 natural size.
Figs.
57.
Clausilia subaurantiaca n. sp.
Figs.
811.
Clausilia Hirasei n. sp.
Fig.
10 diagrammatic.
. lunella l.f. fulcrum or lamella fulcrans li. inferior lamella I. p. parallel lamella l.s. superior lamella l.sp. spiral lamella p.p. principal plica jy.s. sutural plice u.ji.j' upper palatal plica.
Figs.
1214.
Clausilia hyperopAyx n. sp.
Figs.
1517.
Clausilia axvajiensis n. sp.
Figs.
1820.
Clausilia aulacojjhora n sp.
NOTES ON CERTAIN MOLLTJSCA OF SOUTHWESTERN ARKANSAS.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
During February of this year Mr. James H. Ferriss explored for laud shells the western tier of counties in Arkansas from about midway up the western boundary of the State to the southwestern corner.
He also collected at Hardy in the northeastern portion of the State and in some northeastern counties of Texas.
An account of the trip has been given by Mr. Ferriss with a catalogue of the species collected accompanied by valuable notes on the localities and habits of the several forms.
The following notes on a portion of the species may be regarded as supplemental to his article which should be consulted for the full list.
Helicina orbiculata tropica Jan..
Denison Tex.
 Rocky Comfort and Lanesport Ark.
Polygyra leporina Gld..
Horatio Chapel Hill Rocky Comfort and Hardy Ark.
 DeKalb and Mt.
Pleasant Tex.
Nowhere in abundance.
This species has especial interest from its intermediate position between the sections Stenofrema and typical Polygyra.
The structure of the basal lip clearly foreshadows what we find in P. hirsuta uncifera or pilula while the form of the parietal lamella shows that the upper branch which makes the parietal Vshaped in typical Polygyra is merely a further development of the callous ridge which runs from the lamella to the outer end of the lip in such species as P. stenotrema.
Polygyra dorfeuilliana Lea.
Throughout the western counties of Arkansas from Polk county south and in the noi'theastern counties of Texas this is an extremely abundant species and the collection made by Mr. Ferriss contains hundreds of specimens.
The very widely umbilicateJ form with glossy base var.
sampsoni did not occur all the specimens being more or less ribbed beneath and varying within wide 1 miutilus XIV July 1900.
29 limits iu the size of the umbilicus.
They are referable to what I called var.
percostata but not so strongly sculptured as the types and in fact pretty well bridge the gap between ' ' percostata ' ' and typical dorfeuilliana.
Specimens were taken at the following localities Hardy Sharp county northeastern Arkansas.
Typical dorfeuilliana none of the several hundred specimens having the wide umbilicus of var.
sampsoiii.
Diam.
79 mm.
Mena Polk county Ark.
Small specimens 7 down to 6 mm.
diam.
 and varying from the typical form with commashaped rimation to widely umbilicated showing over a full whorl below more or less ribbed there.
Hatton Gap Polk county.
6h to 5f mm.
 umbilicus moderate or ample.
Horatio Chapel Hill Gilham and Cove Sevier county.
Similar to the last.
Morris Ferry Little River county.
Ark.
Similar to the preceding.
Ultima Thule Sevier county.
Diameter varying from 7 to 8 mm.
 umbilicus variable as in the Mena specimens.
In copious supply.
Rocky Comfort Little River county.
Ark.
Similar to the preceding lot.
Denisou Tex.
Similar to preceding.
It is rather peculiar that Polygyra jacksoni occurred during this trip only at Mena Polk county Ark.
Possibly its southeastern limit does not reach the western counties of Arkansas below Polk.
Polygyra cragini Call.
Ultima Thule Sevier county in southwestern and Mena Polk county in western Arkansas typical specimens.
Also taken at Hardy Sharp county iu northeastern Arkansas.
Polygyra inflecta Say.
Mena Rocky Cove and Hatton Gap Polk county Horatio Sevier county Morris Ferry Little River county all in southwestern Arkansas.
Also at Little Rock in central and Hardy iu northeastern Arkansas.
Most of the specimens from Hattou Gap Horatio and Hardy are small often under 10 mm.
diam.
Those from Mena vary from 10 to 13 mm.
This variation is merely individual.
Polygyra binneyana Pilsbrv.
The specimens collected fully confirm the specific characters of this fine snail.
While rather variable it does not approach any known species.
The largest examples sent were taken at Gilham Sevier county Ark. and measure alt.
1 diam.
26 mm.
 the umbilicus is partially overhung by the lip.
The smallest seen from this locality is 23 mm.
in diameter.
All have 5 whorls.
Entirely similar specimens come from Mena in Polk county but from the Chastat.
Mts. near Mena the shells are smaller alt.
10 diam.
19 and alt.
9 diam.
17 mm.
 the smaller ones have not quite 5 whorls.
The size approaches that of Polygyra liowaensis arkmisaensls but the aperture lip and sculpture are as in the typical binneyana. and very unlike any form of kioivaensu.
Folygjra.
albolabris alleni Wetherby.
This Western subspecies extends from Iowa to southwestern Arkansas.
About 1885 I  planted  about a quart of linng specimens from Des Moines la. on the island of Rock Island in the Mississippi river opposite Davenport la. where the species did not exist before.
It does not occur in the vicinity of Davenport nor around Iowa City la.
Ferriss' localities are Hardy Sharp county  Nlena Polk county and Little Rock Ark.
The specimens from Hardy are as small as var.
maritima 2324 mm.
diam. but in other characters are typical alleni.
Those from Mena are large up to 30 mm.
diam.
 and in some cases the umbilicus is partially open in apparently mature shells.
A single dead shell from Little Rock is more solid than most iUeni with the basal lip broader somewhat as in an undescribed form from northern Alabama but I think it only an old alleni.
Polygyra appressa Say.
Finely developed specimens at Hardy Sharp county in northeastern Arkansas.
They measure 18 to 20 mm.
diam.
Most specimens have a small upper denticle on the lip the mark of  var.
a  of Say but I regard this as a merely individual vari ation.
Polygyra appressa perigrapta PHs.
Typical specimens were taken at Little Rock Ark Polygyra thyroides Say.
The variations of this species in the Southwest are extremely perplexing.
From the standpoint of the collector in the Ohio or the ujper Mississippi valley the shells are small but they are as large as most Philadelphia specimens.
It is obvious from an inspection of Mr. Ferriss' shells that hucculenta Gld.
is scarcely definable as a variety although tbe globose narrowly perforate clausaie shells such as one lot from Hardy Ark. seem by themselves quite distinct.
Iany of the other shells such as those from Deuison and DeKalb Tex. are practically intermediate and I can find neither geographic nor conchological boundaries for bucculenta Avell enough defined to warrant its retention.
It iemains to notice a small rather depressed and decidedly reddish form occurring at numerous localities in western Arkansas and slightly unlike any thyroides I have seen from other localities.
Specimens were sent from the following places Hardy Sharp county in northeastern Arkansas.
Three forms collected a P. thyroides with flat lip toothed parietal wall alt.
12 diam.
20 mm. or somewhat smaller.
6 Similar but red depressed and glossy rather openly umbilicate alt.
11 diam.
19 alt.
10 diam.
16i mm.
c Typical bucculenta with globose shell narrow umbilicus light color and rather rounded lip alt.
12 diam 17 alt.
11 diam.
16 mm.
Rocky Comfort Little River county.
A form of thyroides with reduced or even imperforate umbilicus the parietal tooth small or wanting  shape normal and size as in lot a from Hardy.
Also four specimens of the smaller depressed ruddy form mentioned above.
Cove Polk county.
Small and very narrowly umbilicated shells diam.
1517 mm. varying from yellowishcorneous to reddish.
They are too depressed for bucculenta.
Ultima Thule Sevier county.
Similar to the shells from Cove rich reddish.
Mena Polk county.
A single specimen of the small reddish form was taken  diam.
barely 15 mm.
DeKalb Bowie county Tex.
Specimens intermediate between thyroides and bucculenta.
Denison Grayson county Tex.
Specimens less globose than typical bucculenta but having the rounded rather than flattened i lip and narrow umbilicus of that form.
Tliey vary from 17 to 20 mm.
diameter.
Polygyra labrosa Bid..
Little Rock Ark.
I'olygyra stenotrema 'Fer.'
Pfr..
Spur of Chastat Mts. near Mena Ark.
 Hardy Ark.
Size varying from 9 to 10 mm.
diam.
 form typical.
Polygyra hirsuta uncifera n. var.
Similar to P. hirsuta in general form very densely hirsute throughout the hairs short silvery ixirietal lamella more sinuous recurved in a hook at the outer end  basal lip formed much as in var.
pilida the median sinus oblique separating two irregular nodules the edge of the lip projecting above the notch  outer lip bearing a conical tooth.
Alt.
5i6 diam.
8 mm.
types Mena.
Alt.
4.7 diam.
7 ram.
Chastat Mts. near Mena.
Alt.
4 diam.
6 mm.
Chastat Mts. near Mena.
Mena and the adjacent Chastat Mts. Polk county western Arkansas.
Types in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of James H. Ferriss.
An extraordinary form in which the parietal lamella is hookea at the distal end as in P. maxillaia and the basal lip is peculiarly modified.
The hook is evidently homologous with the upper branch of the parietal fold in the typical Polygyras and this form may fairly be regarded as to some extent a ti'ansition form at least in this one character.
The group of small Polygyras of the plicatadorfeuilliana type have evident relationships with Stenotrema having a similar internal  fulcrum and some species being hairy.
In this connection it might be mentioned that the single West Coast species P. germana usually referred to the subgenus Stenotrema is in my opinion much more closely allied to the P. Columbiana group and might better be grouped therewith.
Binney however has pointed out its peculiarly intermediate character.
The varieties of P. hirsuta now known j5i7ua altispira and uncifera are remarkably distinct  no iutergradatiou with the typical form has yet been observed in any of them.
In fact typical hirsuta is much closer to P. stenotrema than to the varieties mentioned.
The small series of var.
uncifera collected by Ferriss show that it has a smaller form on high ground.
This peculiarity has been noticed in other species such as P. hirsuta and P. monodon which may have a small and a large form on higher and lower ground respectively in the same region.
Polygyra monodon Rack..
This species was originally described from near Thunder Bay Lake Huron.
This is in Alpena county Mich.
The type as well figured in the Llnnean Transactions was undoubtedly what became known later as Helix Stenotreina' leai Ward  a small widely umbilicated shell which many collectors have considered to be a distinct species from the traditional monodon and which is confined to the middle West north of the Ohio river and west to Iowa.
This state of affairs renders a rearrangement of the nomenclature necessary.
H. leai will be deleted from the roll of valid species and its place usurped by P. monodon which name will henceforth be used for the small glossy widely umbilicated shells formerly known as leai.
The larger more hirsute form now universally known as monodon will become P. monodon fraterna Say.
This subspecies is far more widely distributed than the true monodon.
It varies from as widely umbilicated as monodon to quite imperforate.
The widely umbilicated forms are chiefly northern especially in western New York.
In the Little Tennessee river valley the muchdepressed umbilicated subspecies cinda Lewis occurs.
In the Southwest from western Arkansas and Louisiana to southern Texas several illdefined races occur.
Var.
alicice is a small form 89 mm.
diam. with narrow umbilical chink more or less globose contour and 5 whorls.
Var.
friersoni is larger the size of well developed northern fraterna with 6 whorls and an umbihcal chink.
Both of these have the umbilical region deeply impressed.
The propriety of separating them from var.
fraterna or from one another is open to question and requires more study but it must be said that the series of some hundreds collected by Mr. Ferriss can be assorted without grave difficulty and the two forms allciie and friersoni coexist in numerous lowilitie just as typical icitodon leai and raeria do in the North.
However I do not consider either of these varieties to have anything hke the standing the several varieties of P. hirsuta have and their discrimination may be an unnecessary refinement.
Then we have a third form of monodon which I shall call var.
imperforata collected by Mr. Ferriss at Mena Cove and Rocky Comfort Ark. apparently living with var.
friersoni.
It has 5whorls an elevated spire much less swollen rather flattened base which is very little imjrressed or sunken in the centre is imperforate and has scarcely a trace of the flange along the basal lip so prominent in fully adult terwa'.
The pile is harsh to the touch and the surface without lustre.
Although I may have overdone the naming of monodon varieties I do not see how to avoid distinguishing this race by name.
It is by all odds the most distinct of the southwestern varieties and apparently is confined to the rough mountainous country.
Types from Rocky Comfort Ark.
The following forms of monodon were taken by Ferriss Mena Polk county Ark.
Var.
imperforata Pils.
Rather globose imperforate shells 8to 10 mm.
diam. remarkable for having the umbilical region very little impressed.
Whorls b to 6.
Pile rather stiff Horatio Sevier county Ark.
Var.
alieice.
Two small specimens diam.
8 mm. with narrow perforation and short straight parietal tooth as in typical monodon though this may indicate immaturity 5 whorls.
The spire is only moderately raised.
Ultima Thule Sevier county Ark.
Small shells 88 mm.
diam. with 5 5f whorls the spire more or less conoid umbilicus narrow nearly closed the umbilical region impressed.
The specimens are referable to the form I called var.
alieice.
Cove Polk county.
Three of four specimens taken are the variety imperforata with scarcely impressed umbilical region mentioned from Mena.
The other is an ordinary friersoni with partially open umbilicus.
Rocky Comfort Little River county.
Three forms occurred at this place  a Var.
impjerforata the imperforate shells with elevated spire scarcely impressed umbilical region and rather harsh pile mentioned above as occurring at Iena.
6 Small specimens such as those described above from Ultima Thule referable to var.
alieice 54 specimens c Large specimens with deeply impressed umbilical region and 6 whorls diam.
910 mm. referable to var.
friersoni.
DeKalb Bowie county northeast Texas.
Var.
friersoni 5 specimens.
Var.
alicice 20 specimens.
Mt.
Pleasant Titus county Tex.
Var.
alicice one specimen.
Pupoides marginatus Say.
Leucocheila fallax Xnct..
Cerro Gordo Sevier county and Cove Polk county Ark.
Bifidaria armifera Say.
DeKalb Tex. and Hardy Ark.
Bifidaria contracta Say.
Cove Polk county.
Ark.
Vitrea simpsoni Pils..
Hardy Mena Hatton's Gap and Morris Ferry Ark.
The first locality is further east than it has before been reported.
Conulus cliersinus troohulus Reinh.
Cerro Gordo and Hatton's Gap Ark.
Gastrodonta demissa Binney.
Two southwestern races of this species have received names var.
hritisi an imperforate form and var.
lamellata which has an internal lamina like G. gularis.
It must freely be confessed that the abundant series collected by Mr.
Ferriss show these forms to intergrade to a perplexing extent and it is not easy to define them.
Both toothed and toothless forms apparently come from the same log although the fact remains that except in this particular region demissa is not toothed.
Gastrodontas are however proverbially difficult to classify  they defy our neat conventional arrangements of species and subspecies and proclaim the eternal sway of variation.
We name them as we can and have trouble when the intermediate forms have not become extinct.
At all event the varieties of demissa I have erected should not be estimated too highly.
Mena Polk county.
Ark.
16 specimens of the britUi type the largest 9 mm.
diam.
 imperforate or barely perforate.
Thirty specimens of the lamellata type the largest 8 mm.
diam.
 narrowly perforate lamella varying from well developed to a heavy callous lump.
Seventeen specimens with no lamella 9 mm.
diam. 6 alt.
 7 whorls.
Hatton Gap Polk county.
II spocimsns of Iwnellata the lagest 8 mm.
diam.
Also 33 specimens of demissa up to 9 noim.
diam.
 perforate.
Cove Polk county.
Both laminate and toothless specimens.
Ultima Thule Sevier county.
17 specimens of the var.
brittn.
These approach the typical G. aeerra in general appearance but are imperforate.
Whorls 7 alt.
8 to 9 diam.
13 mm.
The var.
lamellata also occurred at Ultima Thule.
Horatio Sevier county.
Both the lamellate form and toothless demissa of all ages.
Chapel Hill Sevier county.
26 var.
lamellata and 18 demissa' the largest having 7 whorls alt.
6 diam.
9.8 mm.
All perforate.
Gilham S3vier county.
Bjth lamellata and demissa.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Mena Polk county Horatio Sender county Rocky Comfort Little River county and Hardy Sharp county Ark.
Specimens all rather strongly ribbed.
The var.
rarinotata occurred at Denison Tex. further north than it has hitherto been noticed.
The western Arkansas shells aie the opposite of the middle Texas variety being unusually dark and copiously maculated.
Limnsea desidiosa Say.
Hardy Sharp county.
Ark.
Ancylus rivularis Say.
Ancylus haldemani Bgt.
A few specimens of each from Hardy Sharp county Ark.
Physa gyrina Say.
Hardy Sharp county northeastern Arkansas.
Thysa Integra Hald. var.
Hardy Sharp county Ark.
 Mt Pleasant Titus county Tex.
The specimens are small and of the variety with a darkbrown iprib.
Pleurocera elevatum Say.
Fig.
1 upper line.
Spring river Hardy Sharp county northeastern Arkansas.
Extremely variable in color being yellow banded or almost black and varying from nearly smooth to singly or doubly calcinated above the sutures the last whorl with a slight peripheral keel or two or three acute keels as in the variety lewisii Lea.
The specimans are unasuallv b3autifal and whollv free from erosion.
458 1900.
Pleurocera subulare Lea.
More slender and smoother than elevatum with which it occurs at Hardy.
Spring river flows into Black river a tributary of the White river.
Goniobasis plebeius Anth..
Fig.
l lower line.
Spring river Hardy Sharp county northeastern Arkansas.
The specimens show the usual variation from almost rounded through angulate to strongly keeled at the periphery the unicolored examples of the carinated end of the series being indistinguishable from G. cubicoides Anth.
 which is a mere synonym.
The carina when present may either project at the sutures or merely fill them leaving an even surface.
These variations of form occur in the young as well as in adult examples some halfgrown shells being almost rounded at the periphery.
Nearly all the specimens from Hardy are strawcolored with a blackish band above the periphery and another in the middle of the basal slope sometimes the upper band or both of them are absent and in one or two shells the whole surface is dark save for the pale carina.
The columella is usually darkstained at the root but occasionally white throughout.
The apices are not eroded.
The series from Hardy is so interesting in its variations that I reproduce here photographs of the leading forms.
l444Mii JJippeT line Pleurocera elevatum.
Lower Hue Goniobasis plebeius.
The vast amount of variation among individuals living side by side under absolutely identical external conditions is an inexplicable characteristic of the Pleuroeeride. This variation is generally in the line of retention by the shell of characters of extreme youth or immaturity carination costation or other sculptural feature into mature life or the early loss of sculpture leaving a plain rounded last whorl.
This particular phase of variation stands on quite a different basis from that of lo in which the ornate forms are farthest removed from the young stages the spines of the later whork being apparently a new and lately acquired character which has not had time to become impressed upon the young.
DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW RABBIT FROM THE LIIT KIT
ISLANDS AND A NEW FLYING SQUIRREL FROM BORNEO.
BY WITMER STONE.
Several mammals collected in the East Indies and adjacent islands have recently been submitted to me for examination for the Wistar Institute of Anatomy.
Two of these prove to be of exceptional interest and are so far as I can ascertain undescribed.
The first is a rabbit obtained on the Liu Kiu Islands by Dr. W.
H. Furness and Dr. H. M. Hiller February 26 1896.
It would naturally be expected that a rabbit from this locahty would prove to be allied to the Japanese Lepus brachyurus but curiously enough the two specimens before me represent a species of the genus Cajirolagus and are apparently nearest to C. hispidiis of Assam.
The larger of the two specimens may be regarded as the type No.
5314 collection AVistar Institute of a new species which I propose to name in honor of its discoverer.
Caprolagus furnessi n. sp.
Size approximately that of Lepm americap.m.
Hind foot tail and ears remarkably short claws very large and strong nearly straight on the fore feet decidedly curved on the hind feet.
Color very dark for a rabbit.
Soft underfur plumbeous long hair coarse and hispid brownish black many with buff annulations or tips becoming mahogany on the rump and brighter yellowish brown on the feet except about the base of claws and tail.
The long hairs on both tail and feet retain their bristly character.
From the hind neck to the beginning of the mahogany shade on the rump there is a jetblack longitudinal band.
Under parts with stiff haiis fewer and mostly pale buff the gray underfur'more prominent giving a general plumbeous hue to the pelage.
The cranial characters agree pretty closely with those of Caprolagus hlspidus as described and figured by Blyth. Skull strong and solid incisive foramina short and narrow length 18 m7n.
 terminating fully 3 mm.
anterior to the anterior margin of alveolus of first premolar.
Bony palate correspondingly .produced fully as long as broad length 12.5 mm..
Bony network over the anteorbital foramina entirely coalesced and solid.
Nasals very broad and solid line of juncture with f rentals exactly opposite anterior margin of orbit and on line with posterior edge of second premolar.
Supraoccipital process very short with no anterior projection the usual notch in front of it being entirely absent  frontals scarcely constricted the width behind supraorbital processes being equal to the interorbital width 20 mm..
Teeth strong and heavy and no trace whatever of the small posterior upper molar.
In the lower jaw the anterior extension of the mandibles supporting the incisors is somewhat slender and there is a distinct hump or bidge in the lower contour just anterior to the first premolar.
The measurements of this specimen are as follows  Total length of flat skin 550 mm.
Ear 42 mm.
Hind foot 97 mm.
Tail vertebrae approximate 8 mm.
Length of whiskers 50 to 65 mm.
Length of skull occipitonasal 88 mm.
Zygomatic breadth minimum 40 mm.
Interorbital breadth 20 mm.
Length of nasals 31 mm.
Length of upper molar series alveoli 15 mm.
Another example No.
5315 Wistar Inst.
Coll.
is apparently smaller and has the mahogany tints suffused over the whole back with many of the hairs on the sides and shoulders light yellowish brown giving it a much brighter richer coloration.
The black dorsal stripe in this specimen is not quite so pronounced.
With only the skins and skull at my disposal I am unable to describe the clas'icles in this interesting animal but from the many  Journal Asiatic Society of Bengal XIV p. 247. other peculiarities exhibited by it I regard the genus Caprolagus as established by Blyth in 1845 as quite worthy of recognition.
In 1896 Dr. Merriam established the genus Roynerolagu.s for a peculiar little rabbit from Mt.
Popocatapetl Mexico many of the characters being parallel to those of Caprolagns as described by Blyth fifty years before.
While in no way questioning the validity of Bonierolagus we must take exception to Dr. Merriam's statement that  Heretofore the genus Lepv.s has enjoyed the distinction of coincidence in characters with the family to which it belongs.
Flower and Lydekker also seem to have totally overlooked Cajjrolagus in making their diagnosis of the family Leporidce.
The family characters must certainly be modified and we must recognize three distinct genera Lepus  Caprolagus Blyth 1845 BomerolagiLS Merriam 1896.
Three species of Caprolagus are now known C hispidus Pearson Bengal Sporting Magazine August 1843 p. 131 fide Blyth.
C. netscheri Schlegel Notes Leyden Mm. February 1880 p. 59 C. furnessi Stone antea.
The other apparent nondescript in the Wistar Institute collection is a flying squirrel obtained by Messrs. Alfred Harrison Jr. and H. M. Hiller on the Menbuang river Sarawak Borneo January 1898 No.
5298.
Notwithstanding the numerous species of Seiuropterus that have been described from this region the present specimen seems to dififer from all so far as I can judge from the descriptions though lack of material for comparisou is much to be regretted.
This species is dedicated to Mr. Harrison whose researches in Borneo have resulted in most valuable zoological collections.
Soiuropterus harrisoni n. sp.
Size and general appearance similar to 5. horsfieldi S. thomsoni etc. but distinguished at once by the uniform dull brown of the tail on both the upjjer and under surfaces.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. Vol.
X pp.
169174.
The general appearance above is bright rusty red darker and more inclined to chestnut than in S. davisoni. This color extends from the nose to the root of the tail the dark blackish plumbeous bases to the hair everywhere show through the rust color being confined to the tips.
The sides of the face are paler and there is a black ring around the eye.
Flight membranes black the hairs tipped with white or very pale buff passing gradually into the rusty color as they approach the body outer edge of the membranes white.
Ears triangular with a sparse covering of black hairs on the outside.
Feet with scattered blackish hairs.
Lower surface dull white cheeks throat and sides of abdomen tinged with rufous.
Under side of membranes dull blackish with pale rufous tips to the hairs.
Tail pale buff or fawn color at the base below otherwise entirely uniform dull brown above and below decidedly distichous and tapering somewhat from root to tip. ''
Whiskers  long  50 to 70 mm.
 one or two short cheek bristles no tufts at base of ears.
Incisors orange.
Length of skin 360 mm.
Length of tail 170 mm.
Hind foot 30 mm.
I wish to acknowledge my indebtedness to the collectors and to Dr. Horace Jayne Director of the Wistar Institute for the privilege of examining these specimens.
3 Figured in P. Z. S. 1886 PI.
VI.
464 proceedings of the academy of 1900.
August 14.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Eight persons present.
A paper entitled Lower California Species of Coelocentrum and Berendtia  by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
The Raubsville Cave.
 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman referring to a communication made at a previous meeting by Mr. Lewis Woolmau but not reported remarked that the Carpenter Cave threefourths of a mile northwest of Raubsville and three miles south of Easton Pa. was discovered a few years ago in quarrying limestone near a hilltop about four hundred feet above sealevel and over two hundred feet above the Delaware.
It seems to be at the axis of an anticlinal for at the north side of the quarry the dip is 20 northerly and some three hundred yards nearly eastward the dip is perhaps 45 southerly while half a mile eastward at the Delaware both north and south dips are very gentle and the antichnal sinks easterly.
The explored part of the cave perhaps one hundred and fifty yards east from the entrance is a mainly straight eastandwest nearly vertical roughly broken fissure or series of fissures up to some ten feet in width with occasional blocks of stone lodged between the walls and exactly resembles the original yet unfilled fissures of many ore veins.
The water from the small drainage surface above has but slightly deposited stalactites and stalagmites and the walls are partly bare and angular according to their inclination.
Xo human traces have been found in the cave but reported traces of small animals and the excellent ventilation indicate that there must be some natural opening into the cave though none has yet been found.
It is one of the numerous caverns that Lesley has shown to have aided in effecting by solution rather than by abrasion the great lowering of the neighboring limestone region that has evidently taken place since glacial times.
Xo undisturbed glacial traces have persisted or perhaps ever existed hereabouts.
Glacial boulders are found four miles southward but it is not clear they were not wiiterborne possibly on icecakes from the great terminal moraine twenty miles to the north.
The following were ordered to be publishel    State Geological Report D3.
THE STRUCTURE OF THE DIATOM GIRDLE.
BY THOMAS CHALKLEY PALMER AND F. J. KEELEY.
Usually the girdle of the diatom is easily separated from the valve to which ic pertains.
A strewn mount of cleaned diatoms will show most of the girdles so separated.
If any doubt as to the structural distinction between valve and girdle were possible previously Printz removed it so far as the large forms of Navicula were concerned by his study of sections.
 The girdle therefore is understood to be not a part of the valve but a closed hoop of silica more or less narrow wedged into the rim of the valve or otherwise held in place not very firmly.
Deby even asserts that in the case of many species old girdles are caducous and detach themselves spontaneously.
The account' which this author gives of the process of multiplication by celldivision  an account agreeing in the main with the views of diatomists in general  implies a rapid and necessary decrease in size as an inevitable I'esult.
So also Pfitzer' and following him most writers on diatoms.
The closed hoop structure is taken as typical of the whole family by such recent writers as F. Schuett and George Karsteu the former of whom discoursing upon the  Zwischenbaender  of O. Mueller remarks  .
.
.
.
die Zwischenbaender sind .... nach Art der Guertelbaender as geschlossene Ringe ausgebildet und erscheinen dann als secuudaere Guertelbaender oder etc.
 and W.
Printz Etudes snr coupes de diatomees observees dans les lames minces de la roche de Nykjobing Brussells 1880.
J.
Deby  Ce que c'est qu'une Diatomee
Soc.
B. de Microscopie Bruxellep.'lSTT.
E.
Pfitzer  Untersuchungen ueber Bau und Entwickelnng der Bacillariaceen Bonn 1871.
Also Die Bacillariaceen EncyMopaedie der Xatunrlssenschoften.
Botanik II p. 435 where the matter is thus tersely expressed .
.
.
.
bei jeder Theilung die groessere der beiden eutstehenden Tochterzellen genau eben so laug ist als die Mutterzelle war waehrend die andere etwa um die doppelte Dicke des Guertelbandes kuerzer ist.
F. Schuett  Bacillariacese.
EnglerandPrantrsPan2e7iait7iw 1 1 b. p. 39 1896.
 George Karsten Die Diatomeen der Kieler Bucht Wisienschaftliche Meeresuntersuchungen Yieiter Baud. 1899.
30 the latter simply takes the closed ring structure for granted.
This structure being admitted the deduction as to progressive decrease in size is undoubtedly sound.
In point of fact wide variations in size do in the case of a vast number of species occur continually.
In filamentous forms it would appear that a decrease does occur step by step with the process of reduplication.
Yet facts are not wanting that do not agree altogether with the theory.
The demonstration has seemed to demonstrate too much. 
If the matter is as simjle as Mr. Deby has made it out to be ' ' writes Van Heurck  sexual reproduction would be very frequently observed which however is not the case.
 Possitly what is meant here is not exclusively sexual reproduction that is to say conjugation which does not in the algre wait upon decrease in size but also rejuvenescence of the cell by auxospore formation.
The scarcity of auxospores in Melosira and similar forms compared with the number theoretically called for is one of the striking facts in this connection.
The details of the process of reduplication were therefore studied exhaustively by Otto Mueller' in the case of a single species of the genus.
The study culminated in the celebrated  law of Mueller a statement of the sequence of events in the growth of this paiticular species which shows why it is that after fortythiee successive reduplications there is but one auxospore in place of the 1052100000000 which ought to produce themselves according to the theory of plain geometrical subdivision.
Studies of the character of this upon Melosira arenaria are not so plentiful that we should desire to do aught but award it the high appi'eciation which is its just due and which it has compelled from diatom students in general.
We must however be allowed to remark that it has yet to be shown that the sequence of events is the same in all species and further that it is not quite certain as will appear later that even the fundamental structure of the silicious parts is the same in all the genera and species of the diatoms.
In all the literature upon diatoms with which we are familiar H.
Van Henrck Treatise on the Diatomacece.
English translation by W E. Baxter London.
1896.
  Die Zellhaut und dea Gesetz der Zelltheiluag folge von Melosira arenaria Moove ' Berlin 1883 I there is noticeable a curious tendency to neglect the structure of the girdle to take for granted that it is everywhere the same and that it is typically a closed hoop. Only in the Lauderiinse and Rhizosoleniine which include the genera Lauderia Guinardia Rhizosolenia Dactyliosolin and one or two others is any other structure figured or described  and in those cases a distinction is made by calling the numerous girdles either annulse or interbands.
In short the girdles here are considered nontypical and peculiar.
 Peculiar in certain aspects they may be.
But that either these annulse or the  Zwischenbaender  in other genera differ from the usual girdle in being incomplete hoops is a proposition we dare to call in question.
Our theme may be stated thus  The closed hoop structure is unusual.
With some very important exceptions the girdle is a twoended band of silica with the ends variously and characteristically rounded or otherwise modified and approximated or overlapping without being joined.
The position of the gap or joint is within limits constant in a given genus with relation to salient features of the valves.
In case of each simple pair of primary girdles the two gaps are usually at opposite points of the diatom and in general in the forms we have studied the gaps are normally so situated with respect to each other as to  lap joints.
In calling attention to a fact at once so elementary and fundamental and so in opposition to views generally held we could desire to present a large number of particulars.
But we cannot claim the merit of setting forth at this time the results of any adequate study of the girdle.
The field is vast and the difficulties are various.
We content ourselves now with the presentation of certain typical examples mainly or almost exclusively among the larger forms.
It seems indeed almost or quite safe to infer the main structure of the girdles of minute species from the main structure of those of larger species in the same genus.
The facts presented are almost all morphological and static and so however incomplete in some respects they have the advantage of being easily verified by any student of the Diatomacere.
Oui observations have been primarily among the Pennatse and first of ' This is by no means to ignore the  Zwischenband  developments of Otto Mueller and F. Schuett.
But as we have shown the latter authority at least implies the closedring girdle structure.
The  Zwischenband  is somewhat apart from our present subject which confines itself to girdles proper.
all in the genus Surirella.
It therefore seems necessary to begin with this genus  a genus that partakes of some of the characteristics of both Pennatte and Centric.
Especially in the location of the girdle gap would Surirella seem to be anything but a typical member of the Pennatse Following this we shall consider the Pennatae and lastly certain typical Centricse.
SURIEELLA.
It Avas a study of a pure and very large gathering of Surirella elegans Ehrenb.
that first drew our attention to the real structure of the girdle.
The diatom was found in greatest abundance practically free from other forms and from inert matter in a shaded rill of cold water during the month of August.
It formed a darkbrown or even blackish patch upon the bottom about a foot in diameter and more than a fourth of an inch deep.
Several ouuces of purest material were dipped up and placed in bottles.
Some of the gathering remained in good living condition for four months.
A part was boiled in strong nitric acid and mounts were made in balsam.
Girdles separated from their valves were plentiful in these preparations.
Many girdles were broken into several pieces but many more were uninjured.
Those latter however always showed an opening that was not a break.
Thougli separated from their valves the girdles remained in general bent neai'ly as when attached.
In every case with absolutely no real exception the gap was on one of the flat sides of the oval and mostly not far from a point midway of the length.
This was true of all the girdles of whicli there were two main types observable.
The first of these is the mature girdle mostly broad and thick  and the second is the young or immature narrow and thin.
The latter kind in addition to the gap showed also at a point nearly opposite a little stem or cleat of silica in shape somewhat like an hourglass extending at right angles from the edge to a distance equal to or greater than the breadth of the girdle itself.
This cleat was absent in older or what may be called primary girdles.
The gathering was and long remained rather quiescent as resiect3 reduplication and successive preparations continued to show the two kinds of girdles with practically no intermediate gradations.
These two kinds are iepreseuted at d and c fig.
1 PI.
XV.
It being manifestly impossible to uudeistand the relations of these girdles to each other and to the valves vrhen the elements were in this state of dislocation preparations were made with parts in situ hy burning the crude frustules upon coverglasses and mounting dry and in balsam.
Persistent study of all those preparations as well as of li'ing frustules and mounts made by other preparers has most unfortunately left many points still obscure.
Yet we are able to present the following definitely ascertained facts.
 The complete frustule in this gathering shows first of all two broad and thick primary girdles the inner and the outer.
Each of these exhibits a gap between its approximated ends substantially as shown in diagram c fig.
1 PI.
XV.
These gaps are on opposite sides of the diatom in every case observed by us and while the exact location varies it is always between the smaller end and the middle point of the length.
Long before there is any other evidence of coming reduplication two secondary girdles make their appearance one for each of the primary girdles.
One of these extends as a narrow thin band around the edge of the outer primary and projects a cleat through the opening in the primary attaching itself thereby to the outer valve.
This outer secondary girdle shows in optical section at the end of the diatom as if attached to the inner edge of the primary.
At the same time upon the edge of the inner primary girdle appears in hke manner a secondary growth with cleat extending through the opening in the primary to the inner valve.
But in optical section at the end of the diatoni this inner secondary appears as an outward thickening as if attached to the outer edge of the primary.
We have therefore now four girdles the two primary and the two secondary for each pair of valves.
Diagrams of these pai'ts separated and in contact with each other are included in fig 1 PI.
XV.
That which arrests attention is that the inner secondary girdle apparently overlaps the inner primary.
If these secondary girdles are by any possibility destined to become primary girdles in the daughtercells the arrangement as described will admit of but two results either the new valve will attach itself to the new girdle the old valve remaining as before the inner or smaller valve of the two or on the other hand the new valve may join to the old girdle which parts from the old valve and is replaced by the new girdle.
But that the secondary girdles do develop and function in either of these ways is what we have been quite unable to prove.
It is next to impossible to trace the disposition of parts in a frustule of Surirella after the two new valves have formed and before the daughtercells have parted company.
We can only say that we have looked carefully but hitherto in vain for any evidence of the growth of new girdles from the young valves of.
Surirella elegans in accordance with orthodox views.
In some other genera we have observed facts that seem to indicate that similar secondary girdles formed before the young valves broaden and lose their cleats becoming finally indistinguishable from primary girdles.
In the case of Surirella we are more in doubt and we desire to pursue the subject further.
As bearing on the doctrine of a necessary decrease in size during successive celldivisions the matter is plainly of importance.
And in the same connection we Avould state that among the millions of fruslules in our gathering of S. elegam products of a long series of divisions and redivisions the small ones were few compared with those well toward the maximum of 220 p..
It would certainly seem that with the expansible girdles which pertain to this species new valves might be formed as large as the old and that the quite small frustules 170 j.
long which are present only to the extent of ten per cent. must owe their existence to some less familiar and simple but more real influence than a supposed but nonexistent stony inexpansibility of the mothercell girdle.
The girdles of Surirella elegam are apparently hyaline but under favorable conditions transverse striai are visible.
When well resolved the appearance is similar to that of Amphipleura pellucida but the strite are more delicate and the resolution much more lifficult.
Attempts further to resolve into dots were unsuccessful.
Pure gatherings of S. splendida Kuetz less rich than that above described yet ample showed essentially the same girdle structure.
That is to say there were primary and secondary girdles the latter with and the former without cleats but both with gaps situated as in S. elegans.  Many mixed mounts of diatoms were examined and Surirella girdles of several species were recognized.
All showed lateral grP.
sind uianv secondary girdles were seen with cleats.
In Mueller's typeplate of one hundred forms in styrax a lateral gap was observed in the form listed as S. norwegUa Eul.
H 3.
S. elegans may stand as a type not of its own genus only bii apparently also of the SurirelloidecTe.
Cymatopleura solia W. Sm.
 according to our too few observations has girdles with gaps situated one on each side of the diatom not far from the place of greatest constriction midway of the length.
As for Campy lodiscus the remaining genus we have been unable to find any preparations showing girdles in a condition admitting of study.
NITZSCHIA.
We have not been fortunate enough to identify satisfactorily any large variety of girdles in this genus.
Such girdles as are in situ show nothing of importance except occasionally cei'tain apparent lines running out at a sharp angle from the termination of the valve on the girdle face  such as have been figured frequently e.. Nitzschia linearis in Van Heurck PI 16 fig.
542.
Dislocated girdles however were found plentifully in a gathering of N. sigmoidea.
As in Surirella the girdles are of two kinds.
The first is when in place in contact with its valve along its whole length.
The second is narrower and connected with the valve only at one point  thecleat.
Both have one end open the other end closed.
The free ends of a girdle are uniformly beveled in a characteristic way so as to form two sharp points.
These points meet each other at the end of the diatom.
The inner girdle of a simple pair has its opening at the end opposite to the opening in the outer.
The cleat on the secondary girdle is situated at the opening in the primary and partly closes it without at any time fusing it into a sohd unbroken band.
Fig.
5 a and h PI.
XV illustrate these two forms of girdle in this species very well except that breadth is less in proportion to length than these drawings would indicate.
NAVICULA.
Among the vast number of species of this genus we have paid attention mostly to the Pinnularia group such as Navicida vindis nohills and major.
Pure gatherings of these large forms have not been at our command.
But though nowhere in great abundance some are to be found in almost all good freshwater gatherings.
The girdles are easily assigned to their proper species as a rule because even when quite detached they generally still retain approximately their original shapes.
Even in fossil deposits it is not difficult to recognize many Navicnla girdles as belonging to this or that particular form also represented therein by valves.
In these large forms the girdles when viewed as they stand upon their edges  that is in valve view but Avith valve removed  show each one a closed end and an end more or less widely opened.
When the exact shape is retained the free ends which are much thinned or drawn out approach each other closely or perhaps overlap a very little in some cases.
As a rule however some little distortion occurs during the preparation of the slide.
A diagram of the edgeview is given in fig.
2a PI.
XV.
When seen flatwise or in girdle view the ends are found to be narrowed in the other direction also.
When the heat used in mounting has been particularly high it often happens that girdles lying on their sides are softened and the preparation will then sometimes show both the free ends nearly or quite in the same place and not superposed.
The appearance then is somewhat as in fig.
2b PI.
XV.
The terminations of the band of silica appear always of nearly this same shape in the large Xaviculse.
The joint which is formed by them is uniformly at the end of the diatom and as may be expected the joint or gap in the outer girdle is at one end of the diatom while that in the inner girdle is at the other end.
Secondary girdles homologous with those described above for Surirella we have seen but in a single doubtful case  and anything resembling a cleat either in situ or detached from the valve is equally hard to find.
Richer gatherings will probably be necessar'before the secondary girdles if such exist in Xavicula can be described.
The terminal gap or joint of these large forms is typical of the girdle structure of the whole vast genus.
X. gibba Kg. N. Bombus Ehr. and many others some in nearly pure gatherings yield girdles with gaps situated at the ends.
It is indeed very striking to see how uniformly the dislocated girdles of all species even the smallest are open at one end and closed at the other.
Girdles in situ uuless happily broken at the right place do not show the gap satisfactorily and even a pair of girdles one within the other with valves removed often cling together so tightly that the gaps are not obvious ami the observer might think he had here a completely closed single hoop.
But a real case of a single girdle with both ends closed has not among either large or small forms of this genus been noted by us.
I STATJRONEIS.
The girdles of S. Phcenicentron Ehr.
are very thin and narrow and the free ends forming the gap which is situated at the end of the frustule have a less constant and definite shape than in the case of most diatoms.
Owing to their tenuit' and consequent proneness to soften and become distorted these girdles are not easily identified in mixed gatherings.
From an examination of some pure gatherings we are able to state that the gaps in inner and outer girdles are at opposite ends of the diatom and that exceedingly minute cleats are often present on secondary girdles.
These cleats are merely little rodlike projections at right angles to the edges of the girdles.
NAVICULOIDE and ACHNANTHOIDE.
Terminal gaps in the girdles of the following have been observed with uniformity Pleurosigma angulatum W.
Sm. PL Spencerii Bailey PL Balticxufi W.
Sm. PL elonrjcdum NV.
Sm. PL strigosum W.
Sm. Van Heurchia rhomboides Breb. Gomphonema geminatum Lyngb. 
Ag. Phoicosphenia curvatum Kuetz Grun.
In the case of Pleurosigma the termination of the free end of the girdle is somewhat like that in species of Nitzschia but less sharply pointed and more rounded on the side of the termination away from the valve.
In the above genera we have not seen any very definite cleats.
Cymbella Amphora Amphiprora and Mastogloia remain uninvestigated.
Epithemia has claimed our attention without yielding any clear understanding of its girdle structure.
Achnanthes hrevipes Ag.
and Cocconeis Pediculus Ehr.
yield girdles in which terminal gaps can generally be distinctly seen.
RHABDONEMA.
Among the crowd of genera and species of the Fragilarioidese Rhahdonema adriaticum Kuetz.
is the form that most clearly shows the essential structure of the girdle.
This structure seems in addition typical of the Avhole group with the exception apparently of some species of Synedra.
Practically the same arrangement  apart from the interposition of the Zwischenbaender  is found with clearness in Eunotia and indicated sufficiently in Meridian Diatoma and Fragilaria.
Two girdles of R. adriatieum are shown in fig 3 PI XV.
One bears a thin baud which joins it throughout its length to the valve or Zwischenband.
The other is more narrow and connects with the valve only by the very distinct cleat.
Intergradations are observable in rich gatherings which show a gradual increase of breadth starting from the cleat and extending toward the open end.
The ends are rounded and halfinclined to be spatulate on the side removed from the valve but come to a point on the side next the valve.
The cleat is of considerable breadth comparatively heavy and calculated from its shape to fit snugly on the inner edge of the valve at the end.
A few specimens only partly dislocated during mounting showed the usual alternation of parts  that is the outer girdle of a pair is open at one end of the diatom the inner girdle of the same pair is open at the other end EUNOTIA.
E. major Rab.
was studied at some length both mounted in filaments and mounted after disruption and separation of parts.
The mounted filament yields but unsatisfactory results.
The features of importance being at the ends of the cells and the parts being here so overlapped and confusing an optical section of the end of the cell especially of one in course of division will show  a mass of things but nothing distinctly.
Nevertheless a rapidly growing filament does aftord some evidence that prevalent ideas as to what goes on during celldivision of diatoms are not altogether unmixed with error.
We desire to return to this subject at no distant date.
For our present purpose we simply show in fig.
4 PI.
XV two separated girdles of this species.
We have been able to discover no other kind of girdle than these and such as are of an intermediate character either in this species or in others of the genus.
Filamentous and non filamentous all species examined yield only girdles open at one end and closed at the other.
MELOSIRA.
The freshwater species of this genus are mostly small and the girdles are previous to the formation of new valves excessively tenuous  so much so that any structure is only to be made out with the greatest difficulty.
M. Boeseana Rab. however occisionally shows a typical structure which is also dimly seen in certain sjci mens of J vai'imis Ag.
The long tubular ' ' connective ' ' which sepai'ates the old valves and within which new valves grow is made up of numerous imbricated hoops.
Each of these hoops is incomplete.
The openings in them are situated with respect to each other somewhat irregularly.
The sjiecies J.
Borreri Grev being much larger reveals a distinct structure.
The arrangement of the hoops is essentially like that in Lauderia annulata Cleve.
These bands or hoops when separated show openings and in a few cases in the species M. Roesenna delicate cleats extending to the valves have been seen.
These cleats are much like those in Biddulphiu which are described below.
After the formation of the new valves within this system of rings the tube seems to increase in thickness and to become more or less fiimly united with tlie outer sui'faces or edges of the valves into a stiff and stout construction not easily separated again.
So the filamentous state is conserved.
But the openings or joints in the rings can stiil be made out.
with proper management.
The tube composed by these rings is therefore originally somewhat expansible.
If it becomes nonyielding that is after the formation of the new valves  so that if these latter are smaller as they undoubtedly are this fact also has possibly another explanation.
Numerous published figures indicate the rings composing the tube in Melosira and its relatives but the openings and cleats have not been figured so far as we can find.
We have not investigated the girdles of the other genera of Melosirinje nor those of the Sceletonemmte.
COSCINODISCUS.
Particularly distinct structures are to be found in the girdles of this genus.
In fig.
7 PL XV is shown diagrammatically a pair of girdles of C. subtilu Grun.
with two secondary girdles in place.
In fig.
8 PI.
XV is given an inner primary with two secondaries adhering.
These two figures will sufficiently elucidate the arrangement and relation of parts in this species.
We have here the openings in all the girdles and stemlike cleats joining the secondary girdles to the valves.
It is worthy of note that here at least whatever the import may be the secondary girdles both  See Van Heurck Treatise on the Diatomacece p. 41S.
Figure in the text.
overlie the inner primary.
Here again however our information is incomjlete.
It is a question whether these secondary girdles are destined to serve the yet unformed valves of the daughtercelLs or whether they are nearly constant features of the mature mothercell and designed simply to strengthen the whole structure.
We desire to pursue this inquiry further.
A somewhat similar structure is that in C. rohustus Grev.
at least as to the primary girdle but more pronounced owing to the greater thickness of the girdle as will be noted in figs.
1 and 2 of PI.
XVI which show photographically both views of the opening in the primary girdle.
Here the cellular structure of the girdle which is similar to but much finer than that of the valve has comparatively broad hyaline margins continuous through the gap.
We have observed secondary girdles with cleats in this same species but not in a shape to indicate clearly their relations with primary girdles.
The structure and arrangement as given will probably explain the form described by J. Brun under the name of Coscinodiscus cnissus cum Placentce also the appearance according to J. Rattray  of certain specimens of C. rohustus from Santa Monica Cal. wherein a striated border of the valve was  surrounded by a second more sharply defined but narrower band with a slightly convex surface .... at one place this band is interrupted and somewhat moi'e convex on the two sides of the break.
This gives it the appearance of an elastic spring enveloping the valve. '
' Our material representing C. robustiis is from Sendai Japan and while rich in girdles it has failed to affDrd one that was completely closed.
ACTINOCYCLUS.
We have studied the girdles of A. Ehrenbevgii Ralfs.
from Florida.
The structure is essentially the same as that of Coscinodiscus subtilis as given in figs.
7 and 8 of PI XV.
In addition we have seen at least one secondary girdle apparently developing in a most interesting and curious manner into a girdle of full width.
More observation is needed here before we feel warranted in J. Brim Diatomees Espcces NoutcUes Marines p. 21.
J. K.ittray A revision of the genus Coscinodiscus Ehr.
Edinburgh 1890. drawing any final conclusion  but the single example referred to would seem to indicate only one possibility namely that the secondary girdles do indeed eventually become indistinguishable from the primary.
AIILACODISCUS.
In this genus the girdles are composed of hoops imbricated as in Melosira Lauderia etc.
The arrangement of the hoops and the location of the gaps ai'e shown photographically in figs.
4 and 5 of PI.
XVI where the first figure is of the upper side of a semifrustule of A. Kittonii and the second is of the lower side of the same specimen.
The girdle is in this case composed of four hoops but the number varies from two to six or even more in different individuals.
The opening of the hoop next the valve is on the lower side that of the next is on the upper side the third on the lower the fourth on the upper.
The cleats which may be anticipated here on all except the first hoop have not been seen.
BIDDULPHIA.
The typical species B. Icevis Ehr.
 so abundant along the coasts has a complicated system of hoops.
Two oftrecurring shapes are shown in fig.
4 PI.
XVI.
The cleat on the narrower hoop passes through the gap in the wide hoop and attaches itself to the valve within the sulcus.
In fig.
3 PI.
XVI is shown a frustule with three hoops in the outer girdle.
In fig.
6 PI.
XV is given diagrammatically but with essential faithfulness a frustule with two valves and four appioximately equal girdles.
No cleats could be discovered in the specimen from whicli this figure was constructed.
The arrangement shown would certainly indicate the po.
'sibility that secondary girdles may function as primaries in the daughtercells.
As to the location of the girdle gaps it is worth remarking that in this and neighboring species the gaps and cleats are always situated almost vertically under the knobs of the valves  that is to say at the ends of the oval diatom not on the flat sides as in Surirella.
Diatoms With Closed Girdles.
Apparent or real exceptions to the opengirdle structure are noted as follows Synedra superba Kuetz.
Whether the girdle is or is not closed at both ends in this species remains quite doubtful.
Certainly there is much appearance of complete closure in many specimens examined by us.
In any case the girdle is furnished with a stout hookshaped cleat at one end and generally at the other end with either precisely the same thing or else with two hooks only separable from each other with difficulty.
Arachnoidiscus Ehrenbergii Bailey.
Such girdles of this species as we have examined have been narrow and comparatively thick.
They are attached to the under side of the valve by an inwardbent rim of great tenuity quite continuous all around the circle.
No manipulation we could bring to bear has made any opening evident in either rim or girdle and the girdles usually show as perfect and complete circles Triceratium favus 'Ehr.
The girdles are attached by a rim like that in Arachnoidiscus.
They are broader however and of a thickness that would make any opening or gap very obvious.
Considering the close relationship now thought to obtain between Triceratium and Biddulphia we confidently expected to find a similarity in girdle structure.
Our material though not in endless profusion has not been exactly meagre.
Yet we end by saying not only that we have not found any girdle gaps in Triceratium but also that we do not believe any will be found.
This is the more curious since it would appear from published figures that Lithodesmium has possibly a complicated system of open girdles.
But we have not examined the latter and cannot state the facts as to this matter.
It may be that the closed hoop structure is a characteristic of all the Triceratiinte.
Terpsinm mitsica Ehr.
seems to have closed girdles.
Being a large form any opening ought to be seen with ease.
If such exists it is in the form of a very narrow slit at the end of the diatom and so invisible in the specimens as usually mounted.
Isthmia nervosa Kuetz.
This very large diatom has completely closed girdles.
These are all the exceptions to the general rule that we have detected.
Their importance is undeniable.
Others among the Ceutricre may quite possibly be found though if our present classification is not overrated as an expression of natural relationships the probabilities are all in favor of the opengirdle structure in most of the genera intervening between Melosira and Biddulphia.
As to the Pennatie terminal gaps may be expected in nearly all genera.
I We desire to thank Messrs. J. E. Schultz Lewis Woolman and C. S. Boyer for diatom material and the lastnamed gentleman for certain references to the literature of diatoms.
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
Plate XV.
Fig.
1.
Surirella elegans Ehr.
a inner primary girdle  b outer primary girdle a' inner secondary girdle b'  outer secondary girdle c arrangement of parts in situ d separated primary girdle e separated secondary girdle with cleat.
Fig.
2.
Pinnularia sp.
a girdle on edge b girdle on flat side distorted.
Fig.
3 Rhabdonema adriaticum Kuetz.
a primary girdle  a' secondary girdle.
Fig.
4.
Eunotia major Rah.
a primary girdle a' secondary girdle.
Fig.
5.
Nitzschia sigmoidea hr.
a primary girdle b secondary girdle.
Fig.
6.
Biddulphia IcBvis Ehr.
Two valves and four girdles the front of outer girdles broken away to show gaps on the farther side.
Fig.
7.
Coscinodhscus subtilis Grun.
A pair of primary girdles with two secondaries in place.
Fig.
8.
Coscinodiseus subtilis Grun.
An inner primary girdle with two secondaries adhering.
Plate XVI.
Fig.
1.
Valve view of girdle of Coscinodlscus robustus Grev.
X 350.
Fig.
2.
Girdle view of girdle of Cosdnodiscus robustus Grev.
X 350.
Fig.
3.
Biddulphia Icevis Ehr.
X 425.
Showing three hoops in outer girdle.
Fig.
4.
Biddulphia Icevis Ehr.
A primary and a secondary girdle the latter with cleat x 200.
Figs.
5 and 6.
Aulacodiscus Kittonii Arnott.
X 370.
A semifrustule mounted on its girdle and photographed first on the side in contact with the coverglass fig.
5 then on the far side fig.
6.
Photographed with Tolles  1.20 N. A.
480 1900.
THE MUSCULUS CRUCIFOEMIS OF THE ORDER TELLINACEA.
BY H. VON IHERING During the winter of 18761877 I spent my time in studying the animals of the Pelecypoda in the rich collection of the Museum of Copenhagen which were with great liberality placed at my disposal.
Among the numerous still unpublished observations then made there is one which I believe may be useful now as it seems that no other zoologist has hitherto observed and published the same.
All the members of the Tellinacea Dall have at the base of the siphons in the connected ventral paits of the margins of the mantle a singular muscle formed by two crossing muscles which are inserted in the valves in the region of the angle formed by the man tie impression and the sinus or between it and the borders of the shell.
Our fig.
1 shows their positions in Sanguinolaria sanguinolenta Gm.
.
One of the two branches perforates tlie other both being united into a crossshaped muscle which functionally may sei've as a secondary adductor I have examined this muscle in the following species Macoma   cera Hauley and cacareaCh. Fig.
1.
Siphonal apparatus of ian.
  nr j i guinolaria saiuuinolcnta Gm..
op Telhna interrupta Wood and posterior adductor rp posterior re. q Soletellina violacea tractor  cr cruciform muscle.
Lam.
20 Sanguinolaria sanguinoAsaphis coccinea Mart. L. Iphigenia brasiliana lenta Gm. Psammobia ferroensis Ch.
 Donax cuneatus L Semele reticulata Lam. Tagelus gibbus Spengler.
In all these different forms the general arrangement is the same but the development of the muscles their insertions etc. offer great variability.
In Tagelus the muscle is very small and included in the manteledges not producing separate scars of insertion.
Somewhat stronger are the muscles in Psammobia and Donax but as a rule they produce also no distinct scars of insertion.
Iphigenia has the muscles strong but short.
In the true Tellina and in 3Iacoma the branches are slender and very long and always the scars of insertion are quite well devel   oped as shown by our fig.
2. a.p.
Sometimes the insertion is diflEerent in relation to the distance of the scars in both valves and sometimes one of the muscular branches is subr.
 mn  s ri.
i.
Fig.
2.
Tellina striata Ch.
an antedivided producing thus two rior addnctor  ap posterior adductor  gggjg  c and c scars of the insertions of the cruciform muscle.
All these differences are of secondary value.
Thei'e can be however no doubt that the Tellinidse offer the best and most typical development of the apparatus and Tagelus the most rudimentary one.
The conditions of the muscle in the genera Solecurtus and others apparently related to Tagelus should be examined.
Evidently the cruciform muscle is a special development of fibres of the manteledge which only secondarily have been isolated from these margins.
This is as I believe the true origin also of the adductor muscles which in their earliest state were situated in the mantel edge and secondarily isolated and removed from it.
The cruciform muscle forms a new anc important character of the superfamily Tellinacee confirming the views of Prof. W. H. Dall.
I 31
