A NEW CRAYFISH FROM NEW MEXICO.
BY T. D. A. COCKERELL AND WILMATTE FORTER.
Cambarus gallinus n. sp.
Specific Characters.
 Agrees with C. simulans Faxon except that the apical portion of the rostrum is shorter the areola is not carinate or at best there is only the faintest indication of a carina the first abdominal appendages of the cf' form I have the apical process of the inner side long straight reaching considerably beyond the inner processes as shown in the figure.
It has with .imulan.s the broad excavated rostrum  the lines of dots on the areola  the autennre shorter than the body when folded back reaching about to middle of third abdominal segment  the long tuljerculate chela the sternum hairy the third pair of legs alone hooked etc.
The sides of the carapace have a double punctuation small punctures being interspersed among the larger.
Color.
 Carapace and abdomen light pinkishbrown flecked with olivegreen  abdomen with dorsal markings consisting of oblique broad stripes on the segments forming a row on each side these stripes darker than the general surface and edged with a somewhat paler tint.
Ventral surface decidedly pink.
Ends of claws reddish.
3feasurements.
 The numbers in brackets are the percentages of the total length.
The measurements are in mm.
 Letigth from lip of rostrum to Breadth Length Length Width of Length Length end of of carof carof areola in of rosof teleon.
apace.
apace.
areola.
middle.
tnim.
cMa.
Las Vegas spn.... 78 2126.9 4152.5 1519.2 2.5 .03 11 U  37 47.4 Roswell spn 69 18 2ii  35 riO.7 13 1S.9 1 .
1110 14  0 43.4 C. simulaus 97 27 27 S 5152.5 IS 185 1.3 .01 11.5 ll.S 50 5 52  It will be seen that while C. simulans is a larger animal than ours the proportions of the parts are about the same.
The Roswell specimens though containing eggs are all small.
The size of the chela is variable as thus  Specimen 1 d 2  3 J' 4 d 5 
6 J' Total length 73 72 71 91 72 65 Length of chela 28 22 32 38 22 28 The first of these is from near Watrous the other five are from the Galliuas river.
Hab.
 Abundant in the Galhnas river at Las Vegas and in neighboring waters also found in lakes near Watrous N. M. Edivard Sprinrjer and at Roswell J. D. Tinsley.
Belongs to the Pecos River basin in New Mexico and is closely allied to C Mmulam from Dallas Tex.
 and Fort Hays Kans.
It would be reasonable to regard it as a slight geographical race of simidans but for the quite distinct character of the first abdominal appendages which remains constant in the very considerable series both from Las Vegas and Roswell which we have examined.
No Cambariis has heretofore leen recorded from New Mexico.
The types will be placed in the U. S. National useum and cotypes in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
A brief semipopular notice of this species appeared in The Southivest April 1900 p. 133.
Trochocyathus WOOLMANI A NEW CORAL FROM THE CRETACEOUS OF NEW JERSEY.
BY T. WAYLAND VAUGHAN.
The two specimens upon which the description of the following species is based were sent me from the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in compliance with the request of Ir.
Lewis Woolman Trochocyathus woolmani sp.
nov. 1898.
Plntytrochns speciosiis C. W. Johnson Geol.
Survey X. J. Ann.
Eep.
for 1897 p. 265 in Lewis Woolman's Report on Arlesian Wells in New Jersey.
1898.
Platytrochus speciosus C. W. Johnson Proc Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1898 p. 462 non Platytrochus speciosus Gabb and Horn Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2d ger.. Vol.
IV 1860 p. 899 PI.
LXIX figs.
1517.
Corallum short inversely conical living attached transverse outline circular.
Dimensions.
 Diameter of calice 3.5 mm.
 altitude of corallum 4 mm.
 diameter of area of attachment 1 mm.
Wall rather thick naked ornamented externally by twentyfour costiv corresponding to all cycles of septa and showing a fairly regular alternation of larger and smaller  i. e.  there are twelve larger costae of the same size corresponding to the septa of the first and second cycles and twelve smaller corresponding to the septa of the third cycle.
Near the calico they are prominent with acute edges and broad bases  as the base of the corallum is approached they decrease in prominence.
They possess granulations along their edges and some scattered granulations on the sides.
There are three cycles of sepia divided into six systems.
The members of the first cycle are appreciably larger than the other septa and pass directly from the corallum wall to the columella space without forming part of any septal group.
The members of the third cycle bend toward the members of the second and fuse to the sides of the latter below the level of the calice.
The septal margins project very slightly above the upper edge of the corallum wall.
The septal faces are ornamented with distant subconical granulations.
The inner end of each of the primary septa is thickened the 1900.
437 thickeuiug apparently representing a pains and before each group of the members of the second and third cycles is what appears to be a slender pains therefore there are apparently slender pali before the septa of the first and second cycles.
The columalla is not large  it is fasciculate with a papillary upper termination.
The calicular fossa is shallow.
Fig.
Fig.
3.
Fig.
1.
Figs.
1 and 2 drawn from the type No.
685 Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
.
Fig.
1 upright view of corallum altitude of specimen 4 mm.
Fig.
2 calicular view of the sime diameter of calice 3.
.5 mm.
Fig.
3 costae of another specimen much enlarged length specimen 4 mm.
Locality.'
From artesian well Mt.
Laurel N. J. between 150 and 160 feet below the surface. '
Geological horizon.
 Cretaceous Matawan clay marls.
 Type. 10.
685 Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
Mr. C. W. Johnson had identified this species with Plafytrochus speciosus Gabb and Hornbut it certainly is not that species.
According to Gabb Platytrochits speciosus is .5 in.
high and the calice is .57 in.
in diamster.
It would be three times as large as Trochocyathus woolmaiii besides it possesses a deep calice.
It should be added that Platytrochus speciosus is certainly no Platytrochus and it is impossible to identify it from Gabb's description or figures.
The type I believe is at the Vanderbilt University Nashville Tenn.  but I have been unable to see it.
As I could not by any means find out what Gabb meant I have discarded the species altogether.
The species is almost surely not Cretaceous but Eocene.
1 L. Woalman Oeol.
Surv.
iY.
J. Ann.
Rep. for 1897 1393 p. 262  C. W. Johnson Pfoc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila.
for 1898 p. 461.
Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2d ser. Vol.
IV 1360 p. 399 PI.
LXIX figs.
15 16 17.
Notes ON HYACINTH ROOTS.
BY IDA A. KELLER.
Last October I purchased a dozen hyacinth bulbs which were said to be specially selected and intended for waterculture.
They were placed in approjiriate glasses and treated according to approved methods  that is they were kept in the dark daring the following eight weeks.
At the end of that time six had produced extensive root systems five showed but a meagre development in this respect and had begun to decay the odor being extremely offensive.
I was about to dispose summarily of the weakhngs when I determined to give them another trial.
I carefully removed the decayed tissue and washed the bulbs with a solution of listerine.
The odor soon disappeared and in a short time roots began to form.
Soon other bulbs began to decay and they were treated in like manner and then they also proceeded to form new roots.
I had no success with hyacinth culture but I believe the fault lay in the bulbs which seemed to fail quite generally during the season.
In no case did I see the flower stalk push out with that fine vigor which is so charactei'istic of the well formed bulb.
Even the six plants above referred to with the normal rootsystem which indeed had become so extensive that it made a heavy mat in the bottom of the glass produced nothing but a muchshriveled flower stalk with the blooms wiltetl before they had an opportunity to expand.
In these cases however the leaves unfolded quite normally.
Although convinced that the bulbs were not worth keeping for the purpose of floral display I continued watching them having become interested in the formation of the new roots.
Some of these were particulai'ly thick and vigorous and differed greatly in appearance from those which are normally first formed.
They seemed to be a second crop of adventitious roots the fiist formal also belonging to this category since they originate from mature tissue of these metamorphosed stems.
Some slender roots were also formed but the thick roots were far the more numerous.
On one of the bulbs whose origiaaJ roots had all decayed and which I had treated in the manner described above thirty such roots had made their appearance with not a single slender root among them Plate XIII fig.
1.
On the six healthy plants with normally developed rootsystems some of these thick roots were to be found after some time among the first formed more slender roots and both continued alive figs.
2 and 3.
Is this secondary formation the expression of a more vigorous growth of the plant which follows with the expansion of the foliage or is it due to the greater need because of the increase of the transpiring surfaces 
Perhaps both of these factors come into play as they both bear a direct relation to root development  the foliage depending entirely upon the absorbing action of the roots  the roots in their turn being the result of the protoplasmic activity of the leaves.
I endeavored to discover whether these roots differed in their anatomical structure from those first formed.
A great difference was not to be expected since roots in general are of very uniform construction These organs seem particularly indisposed to variations in the relative positions and character of their elements.
A cross section of an ordinary root showed the usual arrangement  the epidermis the cortical parenchyma the endodermis and the central cylinder with its axillary bundle of fibrovascular tissue a little distorted but witti a hexarch radial structure the six very small component bundles converging to the centre and separated from each other by a few interstitial cells Plate XIII fig.
4.
Further examination showed that there was some variation in the number of these bundles.
In fig.
5 the bundles converge toward two wide vessels and a tendency to a diarch arrangement is quite pronounced the rays forming two more or less distinct masses.
In a cross section of the thick roots near the base this diarch arrangement was quite plain  there are two distinct bands of vascular tissue fig.
7.
The polyarch radial structure Avas striking in a cross section about one and a half inches from the base and at this point there was no trace of a diarch tendency.
This is probably the result of later development.
In this section are to be found ten groups of vascular tissue with a comparatively large quantity of undeveloped tissue in the centre fig.
6.
This is quite usual in roots the tissue in the centre remaining in an undeveloped state for a time after the peripheral vessels are fully developed.
Cross sections such as shown in fig.
8 illustrate this point clearly.
The large circular spaces represent the lumina of vessels with as yet unthickened walls.
Comparison of the drawings will show to what extent these two kinds of roots differed from each other in their histological elements.
The greatest difference lies in the relative quantity and development of the vascular tissue.
On counting the number of cells in the cortical parenchyma I found that in the cross section represented in fig.
4 that of the threadlike root there were ten layers of cells while in the cross section represented by fig.
7 that of a thick root there were twenty cells in the corresponding tissue just double the number.
Of course here also variations were to be found but this was an average.
These thick roots were particularly good objects for the study of root structure and development.
They are easy to section and show interesting variations in their radial symmetry.
July 3.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eight persons present.
A paper entitled  Certain Antiquities of the Florida West Coast by Clarence B. Moore was presented for publication.
July 10.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
A paper entitled ' ' Additions to the Japanese LandSnail Fauna No.
II by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
The death of Wilfred H. Harned a member.
May 31 was announced.
July 17.
Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair.
Six persons present.
The death of Dr. John Ashhurst Jr. a member July 7 was announced.
Papers under the following titles were presented for publication  Notes on Certain Mollusca from Southwestern Arkansas by Henry A. Pilsbry. 
The Musculus cruciformis of the Order Telhnacea  by H. von Ihering.
442 proceedings of the academy of 1900.
July 24.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Seven persons present.
A paper entitled  On the Zoological Position of Partula and Achatinella and their Zoogeographical Significance by Henry A. Pilsbry was presented for publication.
July .31.
Mr. UsELMA C. Smith in the Chair.
Eleven persons present.
A paper entitled  Description of a New Rabbit from Liu Kiu Islands and a New Flying Squirrel from Borneo by Witmer Stone was presented for publication.
A paper entitled  Certain Antiquities of the Florida West Coast by Clarence B. Moore presented for publication the 3d inst. was ordered to be printed in the Journal.
The death of Franklin Piatt a mepjber the 24th inst. was announced.
The following were ordered to be printed
