NEW LAND Mollusca FROM JAPAN AND THE LOO CHOO ISLANDS.
BY HENEY A. FILSBRY.
The collectors sent out by Mr. Hirase in the early mouths of this year have already transmitted much new and valuable material in the study of which it is my 2rivilege to assist.
As Mr. Hirase desires to supply such species as have been collected in copious quantity to his correspondents in America and Europe the prompt publication of full descriptions of the novelties is necessary to avoid the inconvenience attending the publicity of manuscript names.
The full report with figures of the new forms may best be deferred until the results of the season's collecting can be presented in connected form.
Most of the following species are from Kunchan the northern and least setiled province of the island Okinawa or Great Luchu Loo Choo and from Oshima hitherto unexplored for land moUusks.
Trochomorpha horiomphala Pfr..
Specimens have been sent by Mr. Hirase No.
631 from Kunchan the northern province of Okinawa.
They are more depressed than Pfeiffer's type but there is considerable variation in the species in this respect.
Trocliomorpha Fritzei Bttg.
is a synonym.
No definite locality has been known hitherto for Pfeiffer's species which moreover has been lost so to speak in the group Plectotropis
Il was doubtless this error of classification which led Boettger to redescribe the shell as T. Fritzei.
Trochomorpha Gouldiana n. sp.
Shell lowconic above convex beneath umbilicate the umbilicus onefourth the diameter of the shell broadly open to the apex  of a dark reddish brown color glossy  delicately striate the strise cut into minute granules by finer very shallow spiral strise both above and below.
Spire straightly conic the apex slightly obtuse.
Whorls 0 slowly widening shghtly convex below and slightly concave above each suture the last whorl acutely carinate concave above and below the keel base convex in the middle the margin of the umbihcus abrupt but not keeled.
Aperture small rhombic the peristome simple obtuse and whitish in fully adult secimens.
Alt.
5.3 diam.
12.7 mm Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
650.
This species differs widely from T. cathcartce Rve. 
and T. horiompliala Pfr.
 the two species known from the Loo Choo group in its higher spire and less spreading form.
It is closely related to T. Shermcmi Pfr.
of Formosa but differs in being smaller with straightly conic spire the whorls concave above keel and suture and the aperture narrower less rounded below.
It is named in honor of Dr. A.
A. Gould who descriled the Japanese shells collected by the Ringgold and Rogers Expedition.
I find two specimens in the collection of the Academy labeled  H. horiomphalo Pfr.
Oosima.
Macrochlamys perfragilis n' Shell perforate depressed excessively thin transparent pale yellow fragile.
Surface brilliantly glossy with faint gi'owthlines and almost obsolete scarcely perceptible spiral striie.
Spire lowconic.
Whorls 4 somewhat convex rather slowly widening separated by a narrowly margined suture the last Avhorl much wider rounded at the periphery rather convex beneath narrowly impressed around the perforation.
Aperture very broadly lunale somewhat oblique the lip fragile columellar margin with a short triangular reflection partially concealing the perforation.
Alt.
10 greater diam.
18 lesser 15 mm.
Alt.
8 greater diam.
10 lesser 14 mm.
Kunchau Okinawa Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
637.
A capacious very fragile species somewhat like M. Stearnsi Pils.
of China and quite different from anything yet described from Japan or the Loo Choo group.
Macrochlamys Gudei n. sp.
Shell minutely perforate depressedconoidal thin somewhat translucent corneousbrown.
Surface glossy sculptured with weak growthwrinkles and on the base some coarse but shallow and inconspicuous spiral sulci obsolete in places.
Spire conic whorls 6f  rather strongly convex slowly widening the last wider subangular at the periphery the angle obvious in front but disappearing near the aperture.
Base convex sunken around the perfoiation.
Aperture liiuate the lip simple and thiu coluraellar margin hardly thickened dilated above a triangular reflection partially covering the perforation.
Alt.
7 diam.
10 mm.
Kunchan Okinawa Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
635.
This species has about the size form and appearance of the American Gastroclonta ligera Say though the whorls are more convex and less striate above and there is of course no callus lining the basal part of the interior.
The generic position assigned is somewhat doubtful.
It is named in honor of my friend G. K. Gude who has produced several meritorious papers upon Japanese land snails.
Kaliella borealis n. sp.
Shell minutely perforate pyramidal with slightly convex lateral outlines and flattened base thin corneousbrown.
Surface somewhat shining sculptured above with regularly spaced very delicate whitish hairlike striae the base showing fine spiral stride and except near the periphery minutely bnt rather roughly pitted.
Whorls 7 nearly flat the suture but slightly impressed narrowly margined the last whorl acutely carinate.
Apei'ture rhombic the pei'istome thin and fragile columellar margin abruptly dilated and reflexed partly over the perforation.
Alt.
3f diara.
3 mm.
Kayabe Ojima Hokkaido Island Mr. Y. Hirase Xo.
641.
A rather straightly pyramidal species distinct from any of the numerous species known to me from Hondo.
Eulota Euhadra oshimae n. sp.
Shell globosesubdepressed umbilicate rather thin but solid of a rich reddish chestnut color darker within the umbilicus and on the back of the lip and with a very dark chestnut almost black band just above the periphery bordered above and below with greenish yellow bauds the convexity of the base sometimes fading to the same pale tint.
Surface rather glossy but in part dull sculptured with slight growthstriie only  several inner whorls after the apical one minutely wrinkled and marked with points in oblique lines.
Spire conic moi'e or less elevated.
Whorls varying from 6J in large to 5f in small specimens quite convex slowly widening the last rounded at tlie periphery very slightly and slowly desceuding in front convex beneath.
Aperture broadly lunate slightly oblique bluish and showing the band inside  peristome expanded and rather narrowly reflexed thickened within purple with 'the extreme edge pale  columellar margin broadly dilated very dark half covering the umbilicus.
Alt.
35 diam.
43 mm.
Alt.
29 diam.
37 mm.
Alt.
26 diam.
33 mm.
Alt.
25 diam.
32 mm.
Alt.
20 diam.
27 mm.
Alt.
19 diam.
26 mm.
Oshimaf Mr. Y. Hirase No.
357.
This magnificent species is related to both E. callginosa and E. merccdoria but is more globose than either with more convex whorls.
It differs conspicuously from E. caliginosa in having the base of the shell and aperture rounded not conspicuously flattened as they are in caliginosa.
The basal lip moreover is not sinuous.
E. oshimce resembles E. mercatoriain the form of the aperture but differs in being more globose with a larger umbilicus in shells of the same size and the whorls are more convex.
The variation in size as shown by the above measurements is extraordinary but there seems to be a complete series of intermediate specimens.
The smaller shells are those most resembhng E. mercatoria
E. oshimce is thus related to species of Okinawa and not to the luchuana group of Japan proper.
Chlorites euoharistus n. sp.
Shell umbilicate thin concave above of a rich dark chestnut color.
Densely hairy the hairs long regularly ari'anged in diagonal lines descending forwardly and backward the surface between them minutely papillose.
Whorls 4i the earlier ones forming a rather deeply sunken spire the last third of the last whorl deeply descending to the periphery the whorl preceding this coiled in a plane.
The first whorl is glossy and smooth the last whorl widens toward the aperture and is obscurely gibbous and then contracted behind the lip the base convex having a small excavation behind the basal lip producing a low prominence just within the basal margin of the aperture.
Aperture very oblique 1 Catal.
Marine Moll.
Japan PL 10 figs.
13 6.
 Ibid. fie.
5. very broadly lunate peristome rather narrowly reflexed purple the margins somewhat approaching connected across the parietal wall by a slender raised cord.
Alt.
9 greater diam.
19 lesser 15 mm.
Alt.
9 greater diam.
18 lesser 15 mm.
''h greater diam.
15 lesser 12 mm.
small form.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
354.
This fine species has the sunken spire of the typical forms of the genus from the Moluccas etc.
It is a larger and much finer species than the two hitherto described from Japan C. oscitam jNIartens and C. fragilu Gude neither of which has the welldeveloped peristome of C. eucharistus
Three of the specimens sent are of about the same size but another is conspicuously smaller with the spire perceptibly more sunken and the low tooth within the basal margin of the peristome is subobsolete.
Suocinea Hirasei nsp.
A species grouping with S. pfeifferi of Europe and S. return of America.
Elongate fragile reddish or corneous ambercolored composed of 2 very raiidly enlarging whorls the last one very large roughened by rather coarse growthwrinkles.
Aperture longovate somewhat eifuse below the margins regularly arcuate.
Length 16 diam.
9 longest axis of aperture 13 width Qh mm.
Tsuchiura Hitachi in eastern Hondo Mr. Y. Hirase No.
642.
Both of the Succineas prexaously known from Japan S. lauta Gld.
and S. Jiortlcola Reinh.
 belong to the group of species having very convex whorls like S. putris or S. obliqua.
This new one goes with the lengthened species and is very like S. retiisa Lea ovalis Gld.
 but the Japanese form is rather less efiuse than the American.
Cyclophorus Hirasei n. sp.
Shell narrowly umbilicate turbinate with elevated spire solid  greenish yellow' with a rather wide black belt just below the periphery which is marked with a pale belt and several dark lines and bands beneath more or less interrupted at short intervals the upper surface marked with numerous dark bands interrupted obliquely or in zigzag fashion the bands retaining their distinctness or more or less confluent into zigzag stripes.
Whorls 5i to nearly 6 veiy convex the last tlattened below the suture elsewhere well rounded.
Aperture circular somewhat oblique bluish and showiui the bands inside peristome rather narrowly reflexed its face roundetl faintly redtinted or bright red continued in a callus across the very short parietal wall the columellar margin overhanging and partially concealing the small umbilicus.
Alt.
30 diam.
32 mm.
 anteroposterior diameter of aperture 21 width 19 mm.
Alt.
29 diam.
31 mm.
 anteroposterior diameter of ajerture 20i width 19 mm.
Operculum circular multispiral concave externally diam.
15 mm.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
644.
Related to G. jourdyi Mori. fuUjuratus Pfr.
 courbeti Anc.
 and their allies species of Tonquin and Burma.
It is remarkable for its elevated spire and brilliant peristome.
Pupinella oshimae n. sp.
Shell pupiform dark purplish brown under a papery whitish outer color apparently the result of weathering densely and finely striate when unworn.
Whorls 6 slightly convex the first four forming a conic spire the penultimate and last whorls of about equal diameter  last whorl somewhat produced forward below.
Aperture vertical the opening small and circular  peristome broadly reflexed white or nearly so very heavily thickened on the face produced forward in a flange around the opening interrupted by minute channels at the base of the columella and posterior end of the lip these channels expanding funnellike outwardly parietal callus very strong at its right end emitting a branch which rises high above the termination of the outer lip.
Length 10 diam.
4.8 mm.
 diam.
of aperture inside of jjeristome 2.2 mm.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
645.
This species difiers strongly from F. rufa Sowb.
and its slightly differentiated local forms fruhstorferi and tsiishimana in the relatively enormous development of the peristome reducing the opening of the aperture in the vertical not oblique plane of the aperture and especially in having the tongue of the parietal callus defining the posterior canal very much longer rising high above the termination of the outer lip.
The latter is abruptly truncated on a level with the suture not produced upward as iu the otner species mentioned.
The upper foramen of the lip shows from in front as a slit not an orifice as in P. rufa.
P. Jruhdorjerl and tnishimcuia from Iki Island and Tsushima respectively are hardly distinguishable from rufa.
With a series of P. rufa before me from Kobe Awaji Hyuga province in Kiushiu and other localities and specimens of fruhdorferi and tsushimana Mlldtf.
received from Fruhstofer 1 am unable to find any differential characters for Dr. von Mollendorft''s supposed species and subspecies except their distribution.
The deeply dissected western coast of Kiushiu indicates subsidence of an area long exposed to denudation and points to the recent isolation of Tsushima and neighboring islands.
Their fauna has much in common with Kiushiu and so far as we now know but few special species strongly differentiated from those of the greater island.
DIPLOM M ATINID.
The Japanese Dlplommatinidce fall into three groups  D. pusilla V. Mart and its var.
omiensis Pils.
are sinistral forms pusilla being placed in the genus Palaina subgenus Cylindropalaina by Kobelt and Mollendorfff but their genera Palaina and Diplommat'ma seem to stand in need of some rearrangement judging by the lists of species.
All ot the other Japanese species apparently belong to the section Sinicn of the genus Dlplommatlna with the single exception of D. turris which diftei's strongly from all other known Japanese species.
Diplommatina turris n. sp.
Shell minute taperingturreted whitish the last two whorls of about equal diameter those above slowly tapering.
AVhorls 7 to 8 extremely convex the first two smooth the apex obtuse the last whorl but slightly ascending iu front.
Surface regularly sculptured with rather widely spaced threadlike ribstriaj.
Aperture subcircular the columellar tooth hardly visible from in front but seen in an obliue view in the aperture to be moderately strong peristome narrowly expanded its inner edge built forward beyond Catalog dcr gegenwartig lebencl hekannten Pneumonopomen p. 53. the expansion continued in an adnate callus across the parietal wall.
Palatal fold short to the left of the parietal callus.
Length 2.2 diam.
0.9 mm.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
G48.
This species is not related to any other form known from Japan or the Loo Choo group.
The t arreted shape extremely convex whorls and regular spaced ribstrire are its prominent features.
Diplommatina saginata n. sp.
Shell dextral imperforate shortly oblongconic obese ambercolored or white densely sculptured with delicate threadlike ribstrise about 25 in the space of a millimeter on the penultimate whorl slightly wider apart on the earlier whorls no spiral striation.
Penultimate whorl widest those above forming a regularly conic spire.
Whorls Q the first obtuse and smooth last whorl much smaller than the penultimate strongly ascending in front.
Aperture subcircular columellar tooth strong as usual.
Peristome narrowly reflexeil thickened on the face continuous in a delicate cord across the parietal margin.
Palatal fold above the columella rather long.
Length 23 diam.
1.2 mm.
Nase Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
6495  also Furuniga Oshima No.
649.
A smaller shorter species than D. Insularam of Kunchau Okinawa or D. cassa of Hondo.
In one specimen tlie outer lip is duplicate in the others merely thickened.
The upper margin of the peristome rises nearly to the preceding suture.
A specimen from Furuniya measures length 2.24 diam.
1.28 mm.
Diplommatina osliimae n. sp.
Shell dextral imperforate bright red amber colored the penultimate whorl widest those above regularly tapering forming a long dtenuated spire.
AYhorLs 7 convex the first two or three dark red smooth the next two having conspicuous threadlike widesjMced riblets the last two whorls densely sculptured with low more delicate ribstriie the last whorl somewhat contracted ascending in front gibbous on the base behind the columellar lip.
Aperture circular the peristome reflexed not doubled its inner edge a httle thickened and built forward scarcely continuous the parietal callus being but slightly developed.
Columellar tooth strong as usual.
Palatal fold wanting.
Length 3 diam.
1.4 mm.
Oshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
651.
This species has a longer more attenuated spire than D. luchuana and it differs from that and all other described Japanese species in the widely spaced riblets of the spire.
Moreover no palatal fold is seen through the front of the whorl and upon opening a specimen I found it wanting.
Diplommatina luchuana n. sp.
Shell small dextral oblongconic brown finely striate the strife much less strong than in other described species of Japan or the Loo Choo Islands.
Whorls 6 convex the penultimate and last of about equal diameter those above regularly tapering forming a long conic spire.
Last whorl ascending to the aperture constricted at its beginning in front.
Aperture somewhat longer than wide the left margin straightened  peristome continuous the outer lip reflexed duplicate by a narrow crest close behind it columellar tooth strong palatal fold very short.
Length 2.3 diam.
1.15 mm.
Province of Kunchan Okinawa Loo Choo Island Mr. Y. Hirase No.
629.
Decidedly conic above as in the larger D. Kobelti Ehrm.
The striatiou is weaker than in other Japanese species of the group none of which except D. Kobelti have so tapering a spire.
The palatal fold is shorter than in the other species of the region.
The surface seems to have no sjiral stri between the longitudinal strioe.
Diplommatina septentrionalis n. sp.
Shell dextral corneous or pale brown cylindricoblong finely ribstriate about 12 striie in the space of a millimeter on the penultimate whorl the stripe more Avidely spaced on the last whorl  under a high magnification showing excessively minute close creoulated spiral striae between the ribstrise.
Whorls nearly 6 convex the first three forming a short terminal cone the others wide last whorl ascending to the aperture.
Aperture subcircular the lip continuous reflexed duplicate by a narrow crest close behind it columellar tooth moderately sti'ong palatal fold rather long.
Length 2.9 diam.
1.5G mm.
Kayabe prov.
Ojima Hokkaido Island Mr. Y. Hirase No.
639.
This is one of the northernmost known species of the genus.
It is somewhat larger than D. uzenensis the ribstriie are more widelyspaced and under a high power there are fine dense spiral strire wanting in D. uzenensis.
D. cassa is somewhat more cylindric.
with finer striation.
D. pusilla Mart also occurs at Kayabe Ojima whence specimens have been sent by Mr. Hirase.
They measure 2.1 mm.
long 1 wide and have about 11 or 12 iiblets in the space of a millimeter measured on the last or penultimate whorls.
The surface between the riblets has excessively fine spiral strire and I find that these are present in var.
omiensis as well as in what I take to be typical D. pnsilla although I overlooked them on the occasion of a former examination.
 I cannot see that the specimens from Hokkaido Island differ from those of middle Hondo.
 These Proceedings for 1900 p. 382.
23
