NEW LAND MOLLUSKS OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Eulota Plectotropis shikokuensis nsp.
Shell openly umbilicate.
rather thin reddishbrown lowconic above convex beneath irregularly striate and covered with short triangular cuticular scales a series of longer ones along the periphery.
Whorls 5 to 6 slightly convex the last carinated at the periphery more or less deflexed in front.
Aperture very oblique subcircular the peristome narrowly reflesed dilated at the columella the ends approaching.
Alt.
8 diam.
14 mm.
Alt.
7 diam.
12 mm.
Yoshida Prov.
lyo.
Type No.
81885 Coll.
A. K S. P. from No.
694 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Similar in contour to trochula of Tsushima.
The cuticular scales are less densely crowded than in scepasma.
Eulota mercatoria var.
daemonorum nov.
Shell solid with wellelevated spire and rounded periphery slightly plicatulate above as in mercaforla from which it differs in the straighter slightly bent forward basal lip with an impressed line or two behind it as in E. cuHginosa.
Alt.
27 diam.
36 mm.
 whorls Qj.
Alt.
20 diam.
29 mm.
 whorls 5f .
Kikai Osumi Mr. Y. Ilirase No.
683 .
It occurs fossil with a form of Eulota liihuana a large form of E. sieholdiana Cyclophorus turgidus and fragments of a Clausilla in a calcareous deposit consisting largely of foramiuifera.
Eulota Plectotropis omiensis n. sp.
Shell small openly umbilicate lowconic above convex beneath carinate at the periphery brown.
Surface of the last whorl shaggy with triangular cuticular scales large for so small a shell and longer at the periphery.
Whorls 4 convex those of the spire roughly striate the last slightly and slowly descending in 85 front.
Aperture oblique subcircular the parietal wall excising about onefourth of the circle.
Peristome thin narrowly expanded throughout more dilated at the columellar insertion.
Alt.
3 diam.
7 mm.
Itanami Orai Mr. Y. Hirase No.
752.
Much like E. lepidophora var.
temiis Gude but with fewer whorls and more shaggy largescaled cuticle.
Ganesella fausta n. sp.
Shell resembling G. pagodulaEhrm.
in contour umbilicate very glossy light chestnvit colored.
Sculpture of faint growthlines and excessively fine subobsolete spiral strise.
Spire high convexly conic.
Whorls 5 convex the last rounded at the periphery very slightly descending in front a trifle constricted behind the lip.
Base convex impressed in the middle.
Aperture less oblique than in G. pagodularounded the parietal wall excising slightly less than a third of the circle  peristome narrowly expanded the outer lip hardly reflexed columellar margin dilated above half covering the umbilicus.
Columella subvertical above.
Alt.
13 diam.
12 mm.
Mikuriya Suruga Mr. Y. Hirase No.
734.
This form differs from G. pagodulain its smaller size fewer whorls dark color and glossy surface the hollow axis and different form of the columella.
I do not think it directly related to G. pagodula
The two species are apparently independent offshoota from the G. japonica stock.
Ganesella Adelinae n. sp.
Shell pyramidal narrowly umbilicate thin pale yellow or rosewhitish with three equidistant blackish chestnut bands  the first above the middle of the upper surface of the last whorl the second at the periphery the space between these two varying from light redbrown to almost as dark as the bauds themselves which are then confluent the third band is wider in the middle of the basal surface the interior of the umbilicus also dark.
Surface rather glossy but with a dull  bloom as in some forms of G. Largilliertl having slight wrinkles of growth and fine subobsolete spiral strire.
Spire straightly conic the apex obtuse whorls 6 to 6 slightly convex the last angular at the periphery moderately convex beneath but slightly descending in front.
Aperture wide semicircular banded within somewhat oblique peristome thin narrowly expanded throughout whiteedged the columellar margin dilated purpleblack partially covering the umbilicus.
Alt.
26 diam.
25 mm.
Alt.
24 diam.
22123 mm.
Oshima AmaniOshima Mr. Y. Hirase No.
352.
This charming species is closely related to G. Largillierti of Okinawa and has also some superficial resemblance  to Eulota calUzona var.
Dixoni.
It differs from the former in the larger umbilicus and the pyramidal rather than turbinate contour.
A specimen I dissected has the exceedingly long' kidney and characteristic genitalia of Ganesella.
As its close relationship to Largillierti is obvious that species can no longer be placed in Eulota as some authors have done Trishoplita hilgendorfi var.
tenuis nov. Closely resembling T. hilgendorfi Kob.
 this'form differs in being thinner with perceptibly larger aperture and the surface is seen under a lens to be finely decussate the fine growthwrinkles being cut into spiral series of long granules.
Pale corneousbrown with inconspicuous darker streaks.
Alt.
9 diam.
1415 mm.
Ibuki Omi xMr.
Y. Hirase No.
310c.
Trishoplita coUinsoni var.
okinoshimae nov.
Similar to var.
casta but not papillose distinctly decussate especially beneath with a reddishchestnut band at the slightly angular periphery.
Whorls 5 to 6.
Alt.
10 diam.
15 mm.
Alt.
9 diam.
13 J mm.
Okinoshima Tosa.
Type No.
81884 Coll.
A. N. S. P. from No.
691 of Mr. Hirase' s collection.
Kaliella praealta n. sp.
Shell perforate pyramidal pale brown the surface glossy and smooth.
Spire very high straightly conic the apex obtuse whorls 9 convex the last angular at the periphery convex beneath.
Aperture semicircular the lip thin as usual columella vertical triangularly dilated above.
Alt.
4 diam 2mm.
Ryozen Omi Mr. Y. Hirase No 743 This species is distinguished among the crowd of Japanese Kaliellas by its high pyramidal contour and numerous whorls.
In outline it resembles Buliminopsis hirrita Gude.
It has not the minute vertical striation of most species of the genus.
Kaliella kyotoensis n. sp.
Shell imperforate obtusely pyramidal the apex obtuse  thin yellowish brown smooth but rather dull more glossy beneath.
Whorls 6 very convex the last rounded at the periphery and beneath impressed around the axis.
Aperture lunate chiefly basal peristome thin and acute abruptly reflexed over the umbilical perforation.
Alt.
3 diam.
3 mm.
Kyoto Mr. Y. Hirase.
Much larger than nanodes pagodiioides or harimensis and well rounded at the periphery.
Kaliella modesta n. sp.
Shell minutely perforate similar to K. pagoduloide.s but less elevated and larger.
Whorls 4f  very convex the last rounded at the periphery impressed in the centre beneath.
Sculpture of excessively fine close subobsolete strife the base most minutely striate spirally.
Aperture lunate.
Alt.
2.4 diam.
2.7 mm.
Oshima Prov.
Higo Mr. Y. Hirase.
Kaliella nahaensis Gude.
Naha or Kafa in southern Okinawa on the west side.
A new variety of this species is represented by specimens sent by Mr. Hirase from Kunchan the northern province of Okinawa.
It differs from nahaensis in being slightly smaller with decidedly sharper striation and may be called var.
kunchana.
Alycaeus satsumana n. sp.
Shell with the general form of A. melanooma redbrown becoming palebrown beneath.
AVhorls 3J the first smooth and projecting nipplelike the next spirally striate the last 1 whorls costulate the riblets narrow rather widely spaced and accompanied by spiral stria
on the first half of the last whorl which then becomes more swollen and sculptured with crowded riblets.
At the end of the swollen portion the sutural process is given off.
This is rather long and lies backward in the suture the whorl is then rather strongly constricted and almost smooth the riblets reappearing behind the lip.
Aperture oblique circular peristome narrowly reflexed and doubled.
Operculum thin reddishcorneous smooth externally.
Alt.
2.3 diam.
3.7 mm.
Kagoshima Satsuma Kiusiu Mr. Y. Hirase No.
704 The  neck is more constricted than in A. melanojyoma and the operculum is thin.
It differs in sculpture from the other Japanese species of Alycceus which are all a good deal alike in form.
Cyclophorus turgidus var.
angulatus nov. Substance of the shell roseate  thick and strong distinctly angular or carinated at the periphery  interior orange or orangered.
Whorls 5.
Alt.
23 diam.
29 mm.
Alt.
16 diam.
20 mm.
Loo Choo Mr. Y. Hirase No.
713.

