A REVIEW OF THE GENERA AND SPECIES OF AMERICAN SNAKES NORTH OF MEXICO.
BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN.
In recent years investigation of the lower groups in classification has largely taken the form of observing and noting the most minute variations occurring in however small numbers.
Among snakes this method has lieen carried to such an extreme that Prof.
Cope's  Characters and Variations of North American Snakes   contains the names of twentythree species and subspecies which were founded upon one or at most two specimens each.
Two propositions both fundamentally correct have contributed to this result first that a knowledge of the laws under which new forms are developed is to be est gained by a study of variations  and second that subspecies are an essential part of classification.
As a general truth the first proposition is unassailable but there appear to be good reasons why limits should be placed upon its application to the present group and why a cautious valuation should here be made of minor variations.
This should be true if it can be shown that unmeaning departures from type are especially common among its members.
It is a law of organisms that a high degree of instability is associated with degenerative processes.
That the serpents as a whole are a degenerate group is probable and while some lines among them have become much specialized there are large numbers of small and degraded forms always highly variable which can be connected with higher types.
It is furthermore a moi'phological fact that where repetition of parts is the rule variability in number at least is to be looked for.
' Among snakes generic and specific characters are chiefly ' Proc.
U. S. National Museum 1892 pp.
589684.
 A very simple summary of a long series of observed facts is contained iu Bateson's Materials for the Study of Variation p. 571 London 1894 ''It is perhaps true that on the whole series containing large numbers of undifferentiated parts more often show Meristic Variation than series made up of a few parts much differentiated lit throughout the evidence a good many of the latter class are nevertheless to be seen.
found in the teeth in the plates upon the head and iu the numljer and form of the rows of body scales all of these are numerous and variability under the above law is common.
Color is largely used in specific and almost wholly in subspecific determination and this too we should expect to find inconstant in a group whose structure is such that the whole exterior is brought into close contact surface or subterranean with earth sometimes swamp and sometimes desert sand and whose slow metabolism brings such physiological activities as temperature nutrition and epidermal repair into close dependence upon external conditions.
There is again a class of anomalies not uncommon in this group such as are shown at times in genera like Coluber or Zamenis in which the young of some species are spotted or crossbanded becoming striped when adult.
Here occasionally more or less of the juvenile pattern is retained showing through as it were the later stage.
Examples of such are Coluber guttatus sellatus Cope and C. rosaceus Cope.
This class of variations is purely physiological and when occurring in isolated cases has no more zoological significance than the occasional retenlion to maturity of the youthful livery of spots in lions.
Aside from anomalies there are characters which are too variable normally to be of use except in broad definitions.
Form and proportions both of the whole and of parts vary considerably among those which change with growth are the relative length of the tail which also varies with sex and the reciprocal proportions of some head plates breadth of head and stoutness of body change to an extraordinary degree with nutritive conditions a fact which can be best learned by observation of snakes kept in captivity.
 The system of trinomials has added greatly to the facilities for expressing the relationship of transitimal forms but while its value is fully conceded so also must be the existence of the danger which has attended and not infrequently overtaken it  that the very ease of its methods may lead the systematist to overvalue the importance of individual and insignificant variations.
 A suggestion as to the possible origin of occasional specimens presenting mixed characters is that among snakes which breed iu captivity there seems to be little orno aversion to cnssbreeding.
This is especially true of Eutmnia and Tropklonotus both of which produce young free from the egg and breed not infrequently.
The chief purpose of the present paper is to inquire into the nature of these variations and to determine if possible how far they are promiscuous and without meaning or to what extent they may be beheved to fall within those ideas of progressive modification without which as a guiding principle the practice of taxonomy is mere byplay.
The conception which has directed the inquiry is that a relatively high degree of constancy and isolation is essential to the recognition of a species  and that variations to be of subspecific value must be of such a character as to offer reasonable grounds for the belief that they are stages of change an important pai't of such character being that they shall occur in sufficient numbers to constitute centres so to speak upon lines leading from established forms.
The color descriptions have in a large proportion of cases been taken from the living snake  to which it may be added that in addition to the alcoholic series to which I have had access including that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia which now contains the whole private collection of the late Prof.
Cope nearly four thousand living specimens of North American snakes have passed under my observation in the course of identifying the large amount of material in this group which comes into possession of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia.
The more recent works w'hich treat with modern methods of the whole field of North American snakes are the paper of Prof.
Cope above referred to and Mr. G. A. Boulenger's Catalogue of Snakes in the British Museum 189396.
With neither of these distinguished naturalists am I able to find myself in full accord the one appearing to mc to err in excess of analysis quite as much as the other does in the opposing method.
The literature has been so fully worked out by Mr. Boulenger  Since the completion of the present paper October 1900 the Epot of the U. S. Natiorud MuseurnloT 1898 has apptared.
containing Prof.
Cope's posthumous work on North American sealed reptiles Serpentes pp.
G83 1198.
I find that few of the conclusions which I bad reached are thereby altered for the chief additions to his previous paper of 1892 result from the introduction of characters drawn from the male generative organ.
Tiiese were not made nse of in the present paper for examination of much of Cope's material and some further investigations of my own had satisfied me that much verification and exteasini remains to be done before their valne in generic determination can be established.
Such changes as I have made have been introduced into the text and references to the paper are given as Cope Kep.
NatMu'.' Cope .c indica'ingthe previous paper above cited.
1901.
'ATUKAL SCIENX'ES OF PHILADELl'IIIA.
13 that the references given in this paper are such only as aie necessary to historical exactness being in most cases to the original description  to the works of Cope and 'Boulenger cited  to Baird and Girard's Catalogue of North American Siudes 1853 to some late papers by Mr. Stejneger and to a valuable paper by Mr. Yan Denburg on the reptiles of the Pacific coast.
 GLAUCONIID.
GlauconiaGrey.
Cat.
Lizards Br.
Mus. 139 1845 Hoia B. and G. Cat.
Serp.
No.
Am. 149 1853 Glauconiaand Renn Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1892 539 590  GlauconiaBouL Cat.
Snakes Br.
Mus. I 59.
No maxillary teeth rostral large projecting one nasal divided or halfdivided and touching the lip eyes covered with scales an ocular which reaches the lip a median row of scales extending to the rostral body surrounded with cycloid scales anal entire body cylindrical tail short and blunt head not distinct.
Hab.
 Africa southwestern Asia tropical America.
Two species are known in the United States  Supraoculars present I. G. dulcis
Supraoculars absent 2.
G. hmnilis.
Glauconiadulcis B. and G. Rena dulcis B. and G. I. c 142 Glauconia
dulcis Cope I. c 590 Boul. I. c I 65  Leptotyphlops dulcis Stej. Proc.
U.
6.
Nat.
Mus. 1891 501  Glauconiadissecta and G. dulcisCope Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 716 717.
Size small two or three pairs of plates in front of frontal a supraocular plate on each side with a smaller one between them nasal divided scales in 14 rows.
Length about 200 mm.
tail about onetwentieth.
Pale brown above white on belly.
G. dissecta Cope may prove to be distinct but the inconstancy of the head shields in these low burrowing forms is a strong jresumption against it.
Hab.
 Texas New Mexico and Mexico. '
Occasional Papers of the California Academy of Science No.
5 1897.
Glauconiahumilis B. and G. Rena 7iumiUs B. and G. I. c 143 aud Cope.
I. c 590 Glauconiakumilis Boul. I. c I .7i and Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 719 Rena humilis Stej. I. c 501  Siagonodon humilis Van Den. I. c 150.
Like G. chdcis but no supraoculars  the oculars being separated by one shield instead of three.
Hab.
 Arizona southern and Lower California Mexico.
BOID.
LICHANURA Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1861 304  I. c 590  Rep. Nat.
Mus. 722  Boul. .
c I 129.
Hoad covered with scales two nasals no labial pits eye with vertical pupil body short and stout tail short blunt and slightly pi'ehensile subcaudals undivided.
Hab.
 Southwestern North America.
Lichanura roseofusca Cope.
Proc.
Acal.
Phila. 1868 2  L. roaeofasca and orcutti Cops I. c 591 592 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 724 76  L. orcutti Stej.
 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1889 96  L. trieirgata part Boul. I. c I 129.
Head slightly distinct rostral prominent eye surrounded with a ring of nine or ten scales anterior nasals in contact 46 small plates behind the nasals rest of head covered with small scales body cylindrical scales small and smooth in 3343 rows ventrals 224241 subcaudals 3947.
Total length about 980 mm.
tail 110.
Grayish or brownish above sometimes with three rather indistinct brown stripes on the body belly yellowish or reddish irregularly mottled with brown.
Mr. Stejueger has clearly shown the great variability of scutellation in these snakes and the very wealth of observation which he brings forward destroys the value of the chief character upon which L. orcutti rests the presence of an additional loreal.
In addition to which is the fact that in the Boiche these plates are so inconstant as to be without classificatory meaning.
Hab  Southern California and Arizona.
A closely related species L. trivirgata is found in Lower California.
s Proc.
IT.
S. Nat.
Mus. 1891 p. 511.
CHARINA Circy.
Cat.
Sn.
Br.
Mus. 113 1849 Cope I. c 592  Boul. I. c I 130.
Anterior teeth longest  head covered with shields  a frontal plate  two nasals eye small with vertical pupil  tail short not pi'ehensile subcaudals undivided Hab.
 Western coast of North America.
Charina bottae Blainville.
Tortrix bottce Blain. Nouv.
Ann. 1834 57 PI.
XXVI fig.
1 Wenona plumbea and isahella B. and G. I. c 139 140  Charina botke Cope I. c 592 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 728  C. botUp.
Boiil. I. c I 130.
Body short and stout rostral prominent two nasals the anterior frequently fused with the internasals loreal sometimes fused with prefrontals head plates variable  upper labials 811 scales smooth in 3749 rows ventrals 192211 anal entire subcaudals 2037 mostly entire.
Total length about 550 mm.
tail 50.
Grayish to brownish above yellow beneath.
In the present genus Mr. Stejneger has again demonstrated the worihlessness of characters drawn from the scales'' although he prefers to provisionally retain jylumbea B. and G. The difference of four rows of scales between the type of bottce and the minimum of plumbea is much less than the normal range of variability in almost every known species of BokUe.
Hab.
 Oregon to Lower California and Nevada.
Charina brachyops Cope.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1888 88  I. c 592 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 727  Boul. I. c I 131.
One specimen only is known of this species.
It differs from bottce in that the posterior prefrontal forms a part of the orbit and the loreal is absent leaving the postnasal in contact with the preocular.
The constancy of these characters is not known and the form is retained provisionally.
Hab.
 Point Reyes California. ''
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Jhis. 1890 p. 177.
COLUBRID Key to the Genera.
I. aglypha A.
 Posterior dorsal hypapopliyses present a.
 Maxillary teeth longer bsliiml scales keeled a  Anal entire no scale pits .... EaTESiA.
 6  Anal divided 2 interaasals scale pits present Tropidonotus.
2 internasals no scale pits keeled only on tail Semixatrix.
1 internasal no scale pits keeled only on tail Helicops.
h.Maxillary teeth equal scales keeled a.
 Anal entire Tropidocloxium.
h.
 'Anal divided cr.
 Loreal absent Storeria.
h'.
 Loreal present  a 1 nasal 1 preocular .
.
Clonophis.
i  2 nasals preocular absent 2 internasals .... Amphiardis.
1 internasal Haldea.
B.
 Posterior dorsal hypapopliyses absent  ' a.
 Maxillary teeth equal or nearly so a  Anal entire a  Scales smooth  size large Snout normal scales less than 17 rows Spilotes.
Snout elongate  scales more than 25 rows RHINECIIId.
h.
 Scales smooth size small and slender no loreal  preand postfrontals touching labials Stilosoma.
C.
 Scales keeled size large 46 prefrontals PiTYOPHIS.
6  Anal divided a  Scales keeled 2 nasals size large spotted or striped Coluber.
1 nasal size small color green Cyclophis.
 Although not strictly followed here the plan of serial arrangement of the genera of C'o6'iZe adopted by Mr. Boulenger possesses a decided advantage ia that it does not pretend to a knowledge of close affinities which we have not gained.
b'.
 Scales smooth  a  Loreal and preocular present 1 preocular 1 nasal color not green CONTIA.
1 preocular 1 nasal j color green LlOPELTIS.
2 preoculars 2 nasals DiADOPHIS.
6  Preocular absent 2 internasals 2 nasals size small Virginia.
2 internasals 1 uasal  large bluislillack with red stripes .
.
Abastor.
1 internasal  1 nasal  large  bluishblack with red spots .
.
Farancia.
12 or no internasals 1 nasal small brown Carphophis c  Loreal absent Nasal usually fused with first labial FiCIMIA.
Nasal usually fused with internasal Chilomeniscus.
h.  Maxillary teeth longer behind no interspace a'  Anal divided  Rostral normal Zamenis.
Rostral vith projecting edges Salvadora.
h  Anal entire a.
 2 nasals Rostral normal  subcaudals divided Ophibolus.
Rostral projecting subcaudals entire Rhinochilus.
Ir.
 1 nasal rostral projecting Cemophora.
c.  Maxillary teeth longer behind an interspace a  Anal entire 34 loi'eals rostral with projecting edges PflYLLORHYNGHUS.
h  Anal divided 1 loreal Scales keeled rostral recurved Heterodon.
Scales smooth with pits 2 preoculars Hypsiglena.
Scales smooth without pits 1 preocular Rhadinea.
II.
OPISTIIOGLYPHA  a.
 Anterior maxillary teeth elongated 2 loreals Trimorphodon.
b.
 Anterior maxillary teeth not elongated a'.
 Loreal present Scale pits present eye uith vertical pupil SiBON.
Scale pits absent  eye with round pupil Erythrolamprus.
b  Loreal absent Tantilla.
III.
PEOTEROGLYPHA  Scales smooth in 15 rows red with black and yellow rings Elaps.
EUT.aNIA B. and G.
I.e. 24 1853 CMlopoma Cope Wheeler Surv. 543 Atomarchns Cope Am.
Nat. 1883 1300  Eutcenia Cope I. c 645 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1014 Tropidonotus part Boul. L c I 192  T hamnophis Stej. No.
Am.
Fauna 7 210.'
Maxillary teeth smooth gradually increasing behind last 23 rather abruptly enlarged head scales normal 1 loreal 2 nasals 2 internasals  body stout to very slender  head distinct  scales keeled without pits in 1723 rows anal entire.
Hab.
 North America and lexico.
The snakes of this genus seem open to every possibility of variation they exist everywhere in great numbers between the fiftieth and fifteenth degrees of latitude  many of them are of semiaquatic habits and the complexity of their pattern easily runs into irregularities the reckless naming of which has added to the confusion.
In The Primary Factors of Organic Evolution p. G3 1896 Prof.
Cope states that he recognizes fortynine species and subspecies in this genus.
Nevertheless if the systematist will but remember that heredity does not act with the exact methods of mechanical reproduction certain fairly definite groups may be made out to which these anomalies may with some certainty be assigned.
 In this paper Mr. Stejneger endeavors to substitute for the wellestablished Eutcenia B. and G. Fiizinger's name Thnmnophu Sist.
Bept. p. 26 1843 and seeks to remove that author's mideiiued genera from the class of nomina nuda by the statement that the simple tact that Fitzinger expressly indicated the type of the genus at once removes them from that category.
It is true that it does so by rule of the American Ornithologists' Union bat elsewhere and in my opinion properly the best usage refuses to sanction these names.
Koj to the Species.
I.
Body with lougitudinal stripes 2 labials in orbit A.
 Body very slender  tail long lateral stripe on third and fourth rows all scales keeled in 19 rows a.
 Tail I of length ol' rather more 7 upper labials brown with 3 yellow stripes 1.
E. saurita.
8 upper labials olive dorsal usually absent 2.
E. sackeni.
h.  Tail J of length or rather less 8 upper labials 3.
E. jyroxima.
B.
 Body stouter tail shorter a.
Scales in 21 rows occ.
19  a  Lateral stripe on third and fourth roAvs Usuall' 8 labials 21 rows .
4.
E. megcdops.
Usually 7 labials occ.
19 rows 5.
E. radix.
y.
 Lateral stripe on second and third rows labials 8 occ.
19 rows and 7 labials 6.
E. elegans.
h. Scales in 19 rows occ.
21  Usually 8 labials head broad .
.
7.
E. eque.
Usually 7 labials  head narrow .
8.
E. sirtalis.
II.
Body without stripes 21 rows 1 labial in orbit brown with 7 rows of spots 9.
E. midtimaculata.
2 labials in orbit  brown with small reddish spots anteriorly 10.
E. rufojnmetata.
Eutaenia saurita L. Coluber saitrita L. Syst.
Nat. XII 335 1766 Eutmiia saurita B. and G. I. c 24  Cope I. c 650 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1020  Trojudonotus saurita part BouL I. c I 212.
Upper labials 7 rarely 8 oculars 13 temporals 12 3 body slender and elongated tail from .36 to .28 of total length scales in 19 rows all keeled ventrals 150170 subcaudals 95120 chocolate brown with three yellow stripes the lateral on the third and fourth rows belly yellow or greenish white top of head dark brown a spot on parietals labials yellow unmarked.
The largest specimen I have seen is in the Academy's collection from Minnesota and measures 865 mm.
tail 240.
As is usually the case with large examples the tail is here rather short about .27.
Hab.
 United States east of Mississippi river.
Eutaenia sackeni Kennicott.
Proc.
Ac.
Phil. 185998 Cope I. c. GoO ami Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 1019 T. saurita part Boul. I. c 1212.
Scutellation and proportions as in saurita but the upper labials are almost invariably 8 instead of 7.
The color is greenish olive or blackish in old specimens and the dorsal stripe is usually absent in such cases showing faintly for a short distance lehiud the head.
Total length 710 mm.
tail 255.
Hab.
 Florida.
Eutaenia proxima Say.
Coluber proximus Say Long's E.Kp. I 187 1823 Eutceiiia proxima and E. Faireyi B. and G. I. c 25  E. proxima Cope I. c 65U and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1022  2'.
saurita part Boul. I. c. I 212.
Head small  body slender though stouter and with shorter tail than in the preceding species upper labials 8 oculars 13 temporals 12 3 scales in 19 rows all keeled ventrals 165178 subcaudais 91115 dark olive or brownish to almost black dorsal stripe distinct bright yellow to orange lateral stripe on third and fourth rows usually pale or greenish yellow  belly yellow' or green usually without markings top of head dark with a parietal spot labials colored like the belly.
Sometimes the dorsal and lateral stripes are of the same color very dark specimens with such stripes chiefly from the northern portions of its range are faireyi B. and G. These have often a slightly longer tail but the differences are not constant.
The usual length of large examples from the Mississippi valley is about 800 mm. of which the tail is from .33.
28 but a living specimen lately received by the Zoological Society from Pecos Tex. is 1160 mm.
long tail 280.
In this the tail is but .24 of the length being the shortest I have met with in the species.
The dorsal stripe is a rich red.
Hab.
 Indiana and Illinois to southern Mexico and west through Texas.
It is not certainly known from east of the Mississipji except in the States named.
Eutaenia radix B. and G. I. c 34  Cope I. c 650 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1026  T. ordinatus var.
radix Boul. I. c I 211.
Body moderately stout head broad upper labials 7 occ.
8 oculars 13 temporals 12  ventrals 145170 subcaudais 5170 scales in' 21 or 19 rows all keeled the outer slightly.
Brown olive or' almost black with three stripes the dorsal usually golden or orauge aud the laterals ou the third and fourth row paler yellow  the spots are distinct except when the body color is so dark as to obscure them belly green to slaty black with a dark spot at the base of each ventral near the end parietal spot usually present labials yellowish or green heavily margined with dusky.
Total length 750 mm.
tail from .20.
24.
Although radix usually has 21 rows of scales four out of five specimens which I have lately received from eastern Missouri have 19.
Hab.
 From the Rocky Mountains to Indiana and the British possessions to Texas.
The common species of the plains.
Eutsenia megalops Kenuicott.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 330.
Confusion has been introduced into this species by inaccurate description and identification.
Typical megalops is from Arizona its Mexican representative is macrostemma Kenn.
Sundry specimens of the latter Prof.
Cope described under the name insigniarum attributing to it markings obcure or wanting as compared with macrostemma  five specimens in the Academy's collection from the City of Mexico referred by Cope himself to insigniarum do not however bear out this statement and I can see no reason for regarding that form as distinct from macrostemma which probably does not enter the United States.
Eutaenia megalops megalops Kennicott.
.
c.330  E. mcgdlops and E. macrostemma insigniarum part Cope I. c 650 651 T. ordinatus var.
macrostemma part Bonl. I. c I 212  E. megalops and E. macrostemma Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1025 1029.
Body moderately stout tail from .19.2G of length eye large scales in 21 rows the outer irregularly keeled upper labials 8 9 the last one small temporals 12 3.
Brown or ashy with three narrow yellow stripes the lateral on third and fourth rows spots present but not very distinct belly usually green bases of ventrals dusky no jarietal nor nuchal spots a small postoral crescent sometimes present labials slightly margined ventrals 158164 subcaudals 5265.
Total length of two specimens from Tucson 740 mm.
tail 140 690 mm.
tail 140.
Three specimens of this snake were sent to the Zoological Society in 1891 iIn his latest work Cope himself abandons insigniarum in favor oi macrostemma.
from Tucson Ariz. by Mr. Herbert Brown and were ascribed by Cope .
c.  p. 051 to insirjniarum.
They Avere at the time considered by me to be merjalops.
They are now in the Academy's collection and reexamination shows that they do not correspond to Cope's description of the first species n ir to five examples of that supposed form from Mexico but they do agree in all respects with Kennicott's description of megalops except that the spots are slightly more distinct and the upper labials are variable one has them 88 another 89 and the third 99.
In the five macrostemma Kenn.
 hi'iicjniarum Cope from Mexico the largest of which measures 990 mm. I find the tail to be about onefourth of the length or longer than in most adult vieralops which reverses the proportions given by Cope  a smaller megalops from Duck creek New Mexico in the Cope collection 610 mm.
long has the tail about .26 and more ventrals and subcaudals but is otherwise exactly like my Tucson specimens.
Hab.
 New Mexico Arizona and northern Mexico.
Eutaenia elegans B and G. I. c 34.
As a rule elegans has 21 rows of scales and 8 labials but variations to 19 rows and 7 labials are not uncommon and in one form 23 rows sometimes appear oculars 1 23 4 temporals 12 sometimes 11 or 13 posterior chin shields about equal in length to the anterior head rather small eye small or moderate  size rathftr smaller than E. sirtalis  tail .1925 of length ventrals 144180 subcaudals 5390.
The lateral stripe is on the second and third rows  the diversity of color is considerable and is best stated under subspecific heads.
E. elegans is a western form ranging from the central plains to the Pacific coast.
Key to the Subspecies.
ct.  Postoral crescent absent Color dark  spots and lat.
stripe often indistinct 1.
E. e. elegans.
Color lighter spots encroaching on stripes 2.
E. e. vagrans.
Often 2 preoculars and 23 rows otherwise like vagrans 3.
E. e. biscutata.
b.
 Postoral crescent present Spots and strijies distinct .
.
.
.
4.
E. e. marciana.
Spots and stripes indistinct or absent .
5.
E. e. couchi.
Eutaenia elegans elegans B. and G. E. elegans B. and G. I. c 34  E. e. elegans E. e. plutonia and E. e. brunnca Cope I. c 653 654 and Eep.
Nat.
Miis. 1035 1037 T. vagrans part and T. ordinatus var.
infcrnalis part Boul. I. c I 202 207  Thamnophis elegans part Van Den. Occ.
Papers Cal.
Ac.
of Sc No.
5 207 1897 Thamnoihis elegans Stej. No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 211.
Color usually dark brown olive or black obscuring the spots dorsal stripe moderately wide and distinct whitish yellow or red laterals usually but not always distinct there are no nuchal spots andthe labials are without dark margins belly generally light with a distinct yellowish tinge on the throat eye moderate posterior chin shields about equal the anterior Aentrals 155172 subcaudals 5780.
E. jilutonia YaiTOw was based upon two melanistic individuals one from Arizona and the other from Washington.
I can see no valid reason for retaining E. brunnea Cope.
Hab.
 California to Oregon.
Eutaenia elegans vagrans B. and G. E. vagrans B. and G. I. c 35  E. e. lineolata and E. e. vagrans Cope I. c 655 656 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1038 1039  T. vagrans part Boul. I. c I 202  Tlianinophis vagrans Stej. I. c 213  T. vagrans part Van Den. I. c 210.
E. vagrans has almost always 21 rows and 8 upper labials ventrals 153172 subcaudals 5391 the eye is smaller than in elegans and the posterior chin shields either equal the anterior in length or are rather less.
Color greenish yellow or ashy to brown  the spots are rather small and numerous they are usually distinct and often tend to join together forming zigzag crossbands  they usually encroach upon the stripes which are whitish or yellow the belly is frequently marbled with slate color especially in the centre head brown or blackish with parietal spot and nuchal blotches generally present labials rarely dark bordered and then but narrowly.
Hab.
 The region of the plains and the Pacific coast from southern California to Oregon.
Eutaenia elegans biscutata Cope.
E. biscutata Cope Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1883 21  I. c 651 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1032 T. vagrans part Boul. I. c. I 202 ThamnopJiis vagrans biscutata Van Deu. I. c. 212.
This form was established by Prof.
Cope upon a melanistic specimen of small size with two preoculars and 2122 rows of scales.
Mr. Van Denburgh has examined a nnmber which have 2 3 and occasionally 1 preocular sometimes 7 labials and 2123 rows all these being from Washington and Oregon.
jVllowing for donbt as to the significance of these variations the form may be provisionally retained as a subspecies of E. elegans.
Eutaenia elegans marciana B. and G. JS.
Marciana B. and G.  I. c 36  E. e. marciana Cope I. c 656 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1045  E. nigrolateris A.
Brown Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1889 421 T. ordinaius var.
mai'cianus Boa. I. c I 211.
Largest of the subspecies 21 rows of scales upper labials 8 temporals 12 3 iDosterior chin shields rather longest ventrals 149163 subcaudals 5385.
Light brown or ashy dorsal stripe narrow and not always distinct  laterals of the same shade but frequently merged into the belly color spots distinct and conspicuous sometimes encroaching a little upon the stripes belly light with a dark spot at the base of each ventral near the end nuchal and parietal spots present labials heavily bordered and a conspicuous pale postoral crescent.
E. nigrolateris A.
Brown was based upon an individual from Tucson the most striking character of which apart from obvious abnormalties was the extension of the preocular upward to meet the frontal.
Since then I have examined several marciana which exhibit a tendency in this direction.
Hab.
 Central Texas to western Arizona.
Eutaenia elegans couchi Kennicott.
E. coucltii Kenn. Pac.
E. R. Rep. 10 1857 and E. hammondii Kenn. Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 332 E. e. couchii Cope I. c 656 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1042  T. ordinatus vars.
couchii and hammondii Boul. I. c I 210  Thamnophis hammondii y am Den. I. c 212.
Moderately stout 21 rows of scales occ.
19 upper labials 8 rarely 7 posterior chin shields longest ventrals 159173 subcaudals 6885.
Grayish brown dark brown or olive dorsal stripe narrow indistinct or absent lateral stripe not very distinct spots almost always absent although a few black dots are sometimes visible on the scales belly yellowish to black labials dark bordered nuchal blotches present postoral crescent less distinct than in marciana.
Hab.
 California and Arizona.
Eutaenia eques Reuss.
Coluber eques Reuss. Mns.
Senck. I 153  E. cyrtopsis E. c. ocellata and E. aurata Cope I. c 656 659  2'.
ordiiuitus var.
eques part Boul. I. c I 209  E. eques Cope Rep. Nat.
3us. 1049.
Body moderately stout  head broad behind  eye large  scales in 19 rows the outer smooth or faintly keeled  upper labials 8 oculars 13 temporals 13 posterior chin shields much the longest.
Brownish olive  dorsal stripe narrow said to be red in life laterals paler on the second and third rows two series of large black spots between the dorsal and lateial stripes anteriorly and on the middle of the body the spots often fuse transversely forming zigzag bands the spots encroach considerably upon the stripes sometimes breaking through the lateral one especially anteriorly a third row of spots on the outer row of scales and the ends of the ventrals belly whitish each scutum black at the base on the ends top of head olive large and conspicuous nuchal blotches labials yellowish white bordaed with black chin yellowish  ventrals 151169 subcaudals 0174 tail about .23 of length.
According to Dr. Coues this species grows to quite the size of E. sirtalis around Fort Whipple Ariz. E. cyrtopsis ocellata Cope was founded upon specimens collected by G. W. Marnock at Helotes Tex. in which the lateral stripe is cut completely through in places by the lower row of dorsal spots.
There are two specimens in the Cope collection from the same locality and collector one in every way corresponds with Kennicott's description of cyrtopsis the other is ocellata for about four inches behind the head and eques on the rest of the body.
It is not easy to reconcile the original description of E. aurata Cope with the type and only specimen which is simply a wellfattened and stout eques with the spots obscure though indicated.
The specimen is mutilated and the brown color has disappeared in the preservative fluid but in every character not dependent upon prominence of the spots it belongs to the present species.
Hab.
 Western Texas to Arizona northern Mexico.
Eutaenia sirtalis LColuber sirtalis L. Sjst.
Nat. Ed.
X 222 1758.
This is rather a stout species head distinct and moderately large tail from .20 to .25 of the length oculars 1 23 4 11 I have been unable to verify this reference and it is adopted here on the authority of Eoulenger and Cope.
temporals 1 anterior vith 1 2 or 3 iu the second row upper labials almost always 7 but iu one subspecies 6 or 8 posterior chin shields lougest scales in 19 rows occ 17 or 21 the outer row smooth or faintly keeled veutrals 138165 subcaudals 5585.
The color range is very great  bluish green olive brown and almost black usually with a dorsal stripe and a lateral on the second and third rows and three rows of spots on the back and side any or all of these may be absent belly yellow green or black generally with a roundish spot near the end of each ventral the head is dark above usually with a parietal sjot  labials margined with dusky.
Maximum length about 900 mm.
Hab.
 The Avhole of North America wherever snakes are found and extending into Mexico.
Key to the Subspecies.
Green with spots usually no stripes .
.
.
.
E. s. ordinatm.
Stripes and spots present no red on sides .
.
2.
E. s. sirtalis.
Stripes and sjots often obscure generall red on sides 3.
E. s. jiciTietalis.
Color very dark  3 stripes belly blueblack 4.
E. s. 2nckermgi.
Color dark 3 stripes head small often 17 rows 5.
E. s. leptocephala.
Eutaenia sirtalis ordinata L. Coluber ordinatus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII.
379 1766 E. s. ordinata and E. s. jraniinea part Cope I. c 662 and Rep. Nat.
Mns. 1066 1067 2 ordinatus forma typica Boul. .
c I 206.
Green above usually without stripes spots generally distinct but in some cases obscure belly greenish white 19 rows of scales 7 labials.
Hab.
 United StatS east of Mississippi river.
Eutaenia sirtalis sirtalis L. Coluber sirtalis L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 222 1758 B. s. sirtalis E. s. jraviiiiea part E. s. semifasciata E. s. obsciira and E. butleri Cope I. c 662 663 651 and Kcp.
Nat.
Miis. 1066 106774 1031  7 ordinatus var.
sirtlis part and var.
butleri Boul. .
c I 206 212 Thamnopliis butleri Stej. Proc.
U.S. Nat.
Ihis. 1891 593 E. bruchystoma Cope Am.
Nat. 1892 964 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1056.
This subspecies has almost always 19 rows of scales and 7 upper labials oculars 13 temiorals usually 12 3 occasionally 11 the color is variable but is usually brown bluish or green with the three light stripes well defined  spots rather large and usually distinct top of head dark  parietal spot present  labials yellowish or greenish with dark borders ventrals 138165 subcaudals 6180.
Length 750 to 950 ram. of which the tail is from .20 to .25.
Some of the specimens referred by Prof.
Cope to E. s. graminea have the stripes more or less distinctly marked these I assign to the present form.
E. s. semifasciata Cope is based upon a few individuals in which the spots are somewhat confluent anteriorly  a disposition by no means uncommon in many of the species of this genus.
Specimens in the Academy's collection labeled obsciDxi by Cope plainly show the dorsal spots although not prominently similar individuals may be found in almost any lot of E. s. sirtalis collected in one locality western examples of obscura are probably referable to E. s. pariefalis.
The only thing which appears to me out of the ordinary about the form is that any one should have thought of giving it a name.
The basis of E. butlerl Cope was a specimen from Richmond Indiana the special characters of Avhich were the great width of the lateral stripe covering three rows of scales  the black borders of the stripes the absence of defined spots and of markings on the head and labials and the presence of but one temporal in the second row.
To these distinctions Mr. Stejneger has added from a second specimen in the National Museum that the eye is strikingly small.
I have not seen the type specimen from Richmond but two others No.
6523 Ac.
coll.
from southeastern Indiana labeled by Cope E. butlerl present intermediate characters.
In these examples the lateral stripe nowhere  covers  the second third and fourth rows being everywhere restricted to the lower half of the fourth and anteriorly where it most extends on the fourth it barely covers the upper margin of the second while on the hinder half of the body it is almost wholly on the second and third.
The sijots are not entirely absent though obscure against the dark bodcolor and in one of the specimens they form narrow broken borders to the stripes as in many of Cope's obscura the posterior labials have narrow dark borders and there is an indistinct parietal spot.
Both have two temporals in the second row in one the lower is narrow and in contact with the anterior one only by its point in the other the lower is much the largest in any event E. s. sirtalis not infrequently has but one second temporal.
Examination of the type of E. hrachystoma Cope leaves little ground for regarding it as anything more than a dwarfed and shortened E. s. sirtalis.
The colors appear to have faded on stretching the skin indications of the dorsal spots appear and the ventral spots of sirtalis are not absent as stated in the description but are plainly present though small.
The body is disproportionately short as is the mouth which instead of reaching back as far as the hinder end of the parietals ends quite in advance of that point with which shortening the reduced number of labials is doubtless correlated.
Hah.
E.
s. sirtalis is found over the United States and southern Canada east of the great plains but is chiefly from east of the Mississippi river.
Eutaenia sirtalis parietalis Say.
Coluber parietalis Say Long's Exp. I 18G 1823 E. s. parietalis E. s. conciiina E. s. tetratmnia E. s. dorsalis E. s. obscura part E. elegans ordinoidcs and E. infernalis infernaUs part Cope I. c 654664 and Rep. Nat.
Mas. 10741081  T. ordinatus var.
sirtalis part and T. o. var.
infernalis part Bonl. I. c I 206 207  T ham nophis parietalis Stej. No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 214  Van Den. .
c 201.
This subspecies has usually 19 rows and 7 labials occasional examples have 21 rows and the labials are sometimes 8 the color is dark brown bluish black or even green dorsal stripe distinct and variable in color white blue yellow or red the laterals are distinct owing to the presence of more or less of the dark body color on the outer rows and ends of the ventrals the upper row of spots commonly fuses into a longitudinal black stripe with which the lower row sometimes connects above the skin on the sides is bright red sometimes extending on to the scales so that the sides appear to have a denticulated pattern of black and red.
This is often seen in living snakes only when the scales are stretched apart but in alcoholic specimens the spaces between the lower row of spots seem to fade rapidly to white and the denticulated pattern is then very distinct.
The belly is yellow green or bluish slate and the spots near the ends though small are plainly to be seen at the base of each ventral top of head olive or reddish yellow an occasional labial with a narrow dark margin.
E. s. tetvaUenia Cope was founded upon sj ecimeiis which had beeu many years in alcohol.
One in the Academy's collection No.
6085 from Puget Sound formerly known as E. conclnna seems to have had the red lateral spaces formed into a longitudinal stripe extinguishing the upper portion of the lower row of spots.
A small snake in the same jar of the same date and locality is an ordinary parietalis.
Considering the amount of variability in the joining of the spots in 2anetaMs and also the uncertain way in which the red pigment dissolves in alcohol I am not disposed to attach much importance to slight differences in these very old specimens.
E. dorsalis B. and G. has the upper black dorsal stripe somewhat narrower than is usual in those examples of parietalis in which the spots fuse into a stripe.
E. onlinoides B. and G. is said to have the sides chestnut in life instead of bright red but this difference is trivial and old alcoholic specimens are distinguishable only when they have 21 rows of scales and 8 labials but as ordinoides and parietalis vary into each other in scutellation I see no good reason for separating them or for assigning the former to E. elegans as is done by Cope.
Whatever may or may not have been injernalis Blainville I have never seen a living specimen which could be referred with certainty to injernalis B. and G. or Cope and I am persuaded that those so called belong in part to the present form and in part to E. elegans.
The dimensions of parietalis are about as in E. s. sirtalis.
Hab.
 From central California norih to Yashington and Oregon and through the plains from Montana to Texas.
Eutaenia sirtalis pickeringi B. and G. J.
Phckaringii B. and G. I. c 27  E. s. jnckeringii and E. s. trilineata Cope I. c 065 and Rep Nat.
Mus. 1082 1083  T. o. var.
infernalis part Boul. I.e. I 207 Thamnophis parietalis pickeringi Van Den. I. c 204.
Color very dark blackish brown or black with three narrow light stripes  belly dark greenish or slate color throal lighter.
E. s. trilineata Cope is simply this form with the stripes inconsiderably wider.
Hab.
 Washington Oregon and western Montana.
Eutaenia sirtalis leptocephala B. and G. E. leptocephala B. and G. I. c 29  B. atrata and E. cooperi Kenn. Pac.
K. R. Survey 296 1860 E. leptocephala and E. infer nalis vidua Cope I. c 658 660 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1058 1055  T. leptocephalus part and T. o. var.
infernalis part Boul. I. c 1201 208 Thamnophis leptocephalus Stej. I. c 214 Van Den. I. c 205.
Size smaller and tail relatively a little longer than in E. s. sirtalis body moderately stout head small and narrow scales in 1719 rows preoculars 1 or 2 3 postoculars 3 or 4 temporals 11 or 12 upper labials usually 7 but sometimes 6 or 8 olive greenish or blackish brown generally with three light stripes these are variable and sometimes absent the three rows of spots are hardly to be seen in dark specimens belly yellowish greenish or dark slate head dark with a parietal spot labials yellower olive sometimes narrowly bordered ventrals 139152 subcaudals 5277.
Total length of one specimen 724 mm.
tail 1G4 of another 723 mm.
tail 138.
Nine specimens from Washington and British Columbia  collected by Samuel N. Rhoads have 17 rows of scales nearly all have 7 labials one has them 78 and one has 8 the preoculars aie 1 2 or 3 with 2 3 or 4 postoculare.
In all the color is dark brown or black with the spots barely visible and the lateral stripe indistinct.
Individuals with 19 rows and 7 labials so closely resemble some forms of parietalis and in fact some Eastern E. s. sirtalis that I cannot regard it as more than a subspecies.
In E. infernalis vidua Cope has merely redescribed two of Kennicott's original specimens of E. atrata although he does not mention the fact while referring to the resemblance.
One of Kennicott's specimens No.
G359 Ac.
coll.
 original number 970 marked vidua by Cope better accords with the first description than with the later one.
It has 19 rows at a point about three inches behind the head where the number rarely reaches a maximum but on the rest of the body it has 17 as stated by Kennicott'upper labials 8 oculars 13 temporals 12 ventrals 155 subcaudals 35 length 622 mm.
tail 138 or .22 of the length being considerably shorter than the proportion given by Cope.
A second specimen No.
G584 Ac.
coll.
 also from San Francisco has the dorsal stripe somewhat narrower  spots obscure but visible 1  Curiously enough Cope in his last paper p. 1059 refers to this irregularity ia the number of rowa as being sometimes found in leptocephala.
against the dark body color and has the belly rather lighter with clear indications of a lateral stripe on the second and third rows  ventrals 143 subcaudals 03 length 440 mm.
tail 108 or .245 of the length.
In one the labials are dark lead color in the other yellowish green both wilh traces of narrow dark borders the chin shields are not subeqiial in these specimens but the hinder are noticeably the longest as in most leptocephala and the eye is small as in that form.
Mr. Van Denburgh refers vidua to elegans but the totality of characters in the two which I have examined comples me to regard them as leptocephala to which in fact.
Cope himself has already referred atrata of which vidua in no event could be more than a synonym.
Hab.
 British Columbia Oregon Washington and California north of San Francisco.
Eutaenia multimaculata Cope.
Atomnrchus multimaculatus Cope Am.
Nat. 1883.
1300  E. multimaculata Cope I. c 665 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1087  T. multimaculatus Boul. I. c I 214.
Posterior maxillary teeth shorter than in the preceding species occasionally an azygous plate between the internasals scales in 21 rows upper labials 8 the fourth only touching the eye oculars 23 temporals 13.
Grayish or brown above with about 7 longitudinal series of brown or reddish spots with lighter centres some of which often unite transversely ventrals yellowish with dark edges.
Length about 708 mm.
Hab.
 Southern New Mexico northern Mexico.
Eutaenia rufopunctata Cope.
CMlopoma rufopunctata Cope Wheeler Survey 544 1875 E. rufopunctata Cope I. c 666 1 rufopunctata Boul. I. c I 214.
Teeth as in multimaculata  head narrow rostral large and projecting 21 rows of scales upper labials 8 fourth and fifth touching the eye oculars 2 l3 temporals 13 chin shields about equal.
Light brown anteriorly with six rows of small reddish or orange spots belly brownish gray base of ventrals dark no markings on head labials light ventrals 177 subcaudals 87.
Only one specimen known from southern Arizona.
Length 257 mm.
TROPIDONOTUS Kuhl.
Isis von Oken 1826 205  Boul.
part I. c I 192  Natrix Cope I. c 667 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 957  Nerodia and Rerjiaa B. and G. I. c 3845.
Maxillary teeth smooth gradually increasing posteriorly the last three or four rather abruptly enlarged head scales normal 1 loreal 2 nasals 2 interuasals body rather stout head distinct scales keeled with double pits in 1738 rows anal divided.
Hab.
 Europe Africa Asia Australia America.
This genus much resembles Eukeiiia but has a divided anal and scale pits.
Being viviparous like Eutcenia these snakes breed freely in captivity and the insignificance of slight differences in color and pattern may be instructively observed in almost any single brood of young.
Key to the North American Species.
a.
 Body with stripes scales in 1921 rovvs a  Preoculars 2  Brown 3 black stripes on back 4 on belly 1.
T. leberis.
Olive brown with 4 narrow stripes on back 2.
T. grahami.
Brown with 2 narrow stripes on back 3.
T. rigida.
h  Preocular 1  Yellowish brown 4 dark brown sti'ipes on back 4.
T. clarki.
h.  Body with spots or cross bands a  Scales in 1921 rows  brown with indistinct spots or cvossbands 5.
21 conipressicauda.
bScales in 2325 rows  brown with alternating spots or crossbands 6.
T. sipedon.  c  Scales in 2729 rows 27 rows large alternating spots .
7.
T. rhombifer.
29 rows narrow cossbands eye with circle of scales 8.
T. cyclopeum.
d  Scales in 2933 rows size large alternating spots parietals broken up T. taxisjnlotus.
Tropidonotus leberis L. Coluber leberis L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 216 1753 Regina leberis B. and G. I. c 45  JSatrix leberis Cope .
c 668 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 993  T. septemvittatus Boul. I. c 1 239.
Size moderate  oculars 22  temporals 12  upper labials 7  1 Tropidonotus bisectus Cope Proc.
U. S. Nat.
3Ius. 1887 p. 116 Is obviously abnormal in some at least of its characters.
Its locality is uncertain and is probably referable to some form of T. sipedon.
scales iu 19 nnvs ventrals 14G151 subeaiulals 6486.
Dark brown above Avith three narrow longitudinal llack stripes on the back a yellow stripe on the two outer rows of scales  belly yellowish with four black stripes.
Length 580 mm tail 154.
Hab.
 United States east of the Mississippi not common in Florida.
Tropidonotus graliami B. and G. Regina Graliamii B. and G. I. c 47  Natrix rra7iamii Cope I. c 668 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 991  T. grahami Boul. I. c I 240.
Size moderate oculars 22 3 temporals 12 upper labials 7 scales in 19 rows occ.
21  ventrals 150173 subcaudals 4565 A light brown or claycolored dorsal stripe one and a halt scales wide bordered by a narrow black line below this an olivebrown stripe three scales wide bordered below by another black line on the fourth row belly and three outer rows straw yellow.
There is a narrow black line along the juncture between the ventrals and the outer scale row and frequently another along the middle of the ventrals.
In old individuals the colors darken and the appearance is sometimes presented of a brown snake with three narrow black stripes on each side.
Length 880 mm.
tail 130.
Hab.
 The Mississippi valley from Michigan to Texas.
Tropidonotus rigidus Say.
Coluber rigidus Say Jour.
Acad.
Phila. IV 1825 239  Regina rigida B. and G. I. c 49 Nntrix rigida Cope I. c 668 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 989 T. rigidus Boul. L c I 240.
Size rather small  oculars 22  temporals 12  upper labials 7  19 rows of scales ventrals 132142 subcaudals 5171.
Greenish brown with two narrow black stripes on the back labials and belly yellow with two series of black spots on the ventrals which sometimes merge into a clouded stripe in front and behind.
Length 536 mm.
tail 102.
Hab.
 Pennsylvania south and southwest to the Gulf rare in Florida.
Tropidonotus clarkii B. and G. Regina Clarkii B. aud G. I. c 48  Natrix clarkii Cope I. c 669 aud Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 987  T. clarkii Boul. I. c I 238.
Size moderate oculars 13 2 temporals 13 2 upper labials 8 occ.
7 scales in 19 or 21 rows ventrals 130135 subcaudals 5768.
3 Dark olive brown above witli three light olive stripes the dorsal one three scales wide and the lateral on the third fourth and part of the fifth rows belly yellow in the middle and light olive on the sides and outer row of scales  an irregular clouded stripe of reddish brown on each side of the median yellow tract.
Length 806 mm.
tail 168.
Hab.
 Western Louisiana and Texas.
Tropidonotus compressicaudus Konnioott.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 J35.
Size moderate tail somewhat compressed scales in 19 or 21 rows very occasionally 23 oculars 13 2 temporals 13 2 upper labials 8.
The pattern in this species is not disiinct and is best seen in the young.
The body color is greenish olive with a dorsal row of black spots and a smaller series on each side.
The spots are confused and irregular the laterals being sometimes opposite the dorsals and sometimes alternating with them  they tend to fuse together forming crossbands which when they alternate are zigzag.
The anterior spots in many specimens merge lengthwise into more or less distinct stripes on the neck which at times extend some distance on the body.
The belly is yellowish or ashy commonly blotched with black more heavily posteriorly anteriorly each ventral is margined with black leaving a transverse elliptical yellow mark in the centre with sometimes a row of similarly colored small spots on each end.
Top of the head greenish olive often with an elongated black lilotch on the frontal and parietals  labials yellow more or less margined with black.
Two color forms may be distinguished  Three rows of spots traces of stripes on neck 1.
T. c compressicaudus.
Crossbands on body  black stripes on neck .
.
2.
T. c. iistus.
Tropidonotus compressicaudus compressicaudus Kenn.
Nerodia compressicaudci Kenu. Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 3.35 Natrix compressicauda Cope I. c 669 and IJep.
Nat.
Mus. 979  T. compressicaudus part Boul. I. c I 233.
Grayish olive or ashy with about forty dark spots on the back distinct but irregular the dorsal and lateral series mostly alternating sometimes forming crossbands in front.
Indications of short stripes on the neck.
A small specimen collected by Mr. C. B. Moore on Pine Island Charlotte Harbor has 133 ventrals 74 subcaudals length 255 ram.
tail 68.
The species reaches a length of about 600 ram.
Hab. Florida.
Tropidonotus compressicaudus ustus Cope.
T. ristus Cope Proc.
Aoa'1.
Phila. 1860 310 JVatrix mta.
N. eompressicauda bivittafa JSf.
c. walkerii N. c. compsolmmn Cope I. c G68 6G9 670 and Hep.
Nat.
Mus. 981983  JV.
c. kcwita Cope Am.
Nat. 1895 676 T. compressicaudus part BouL I. c I 238. lu this form the spots join to form raore or less distinct crossbands sorae thirtyfive to forty on the body  these are frequently obscure especially in adults the neck stripes occasionally extend sorae distance toward the tail.
The body color is frequently pale yellow more or less suffused Avith the reddish tinge common in many species of this genus.
The whole pattern is indefinite and hardly any two specimens are alike  upon these trivial differences the forms given in the syuouymy have been based.
Hab. Florida.
Tropidonotus sipedon LColuber sipedon L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 219 1758.
Size moderate to large and stout scales in 23 or 25 rows upper labials 8 occ.
9 oculars 13 2 temporals 13  veulrals 125155 subcaudals 5982.
In this species the color is brown yellowish or red above with darker transverse bauds or spots on the back or both in combination the beUy is yellowish either spotted or unmarked.
The pattern is distinct in the young but the body color becomes dark in old specimens until the markings are often wholly obliterated.
Three wellmarked color forms may be distinguished of which 1. s. sipedon is the common water snake of the Eastern Middle States T. s. fasciatus of the Southern and Gulf States and 2. s. tramversus seems to be restricted to the western part of the lower Mississippi valley.
a.
 Ventrals spotted Crossbands on whole of back .
.
.
1.
T. s. fasciatus.
Crossbands in front  spots posteriorly .
2.
T. s. sipedon.
b.
 Ventrals not spotted whole body with alternating spots 3.
T. s. transversiis.
Tropidonotus sipedon fasciatus IColuber fasrAatus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 378 1766 Nerodia fasciata and N. erythrogaster B. and G. I. c 39 40 Natrix fnsciata fascinta N. f. xleuraUs and N.f.
crythrofaster Cope I. c 673 and Rep. Nat.
Mas. 963 973 975 N.'f.
pic'tieventris Cope Am.
Nat. 1895 077 and Rep. Xat.
Mus. 969  T. fasciatus part Boul. I. c I 242.
Size large body stout scales in 28 rows raiely 25 upper labials 8 oculars 13 2 temirals 13 veutrals 125155 subcaudals 6082.
YelloAvisli yellowish red or In'own above witli from twenty to thirty darker trausverse bands on the back narrowing on the sides and sometimes red spots on the sides  sometimes the bands are more or less broken posteriorly belly Avhitish yellow or salmon color blotched with yellow red or black very often each ventral is margined all around with the darker shade top of the head uniformly dark generally olive an oblique dark streak behind the orbit labials margined with dark brown.
Old specimens become very dark.
A large one from Georgia now living in the Zoological Gardens is sooty black with traces of red markings on the flanks in this specimen the posterior third of the belly is almost wholly black.
Anolher from Florida has the body color brick red on the back becoming almost vermilion on the sides the crossbands being reddish with a mixture of olive the ventrals are yellow or orange mostly bordered all around with darker orange.
This merely fortuitous phase is jyictieventr is Cope.
A young specimen now in the Academy's collection bred in the Zoological Gardens from a typical fasciatus shows at the age of one day transverse bands posteriorly much broken up into spots.
With the darkening and consequent obscurity of color especially along the dorsal area Avhich results from age this specimen would develop the pattern attributed to jileural is Cope.
I have no knowledge of small individuals of erythrogaster Shaw and there is not the least doubt in my mind that this form is again the result of darkening with age of the red specimens of fasciatus described above although it may be that some northern examples should be referred to T. s. sipedon.
The largest of this subspecies which I have seen measured 1270 mm.
tail 300.
Hab.
 Virginia to Florida and west to Texas.
' This identification is given on the anthority of Prof.
Cope who declared that this specimen belonged to his new subspecies.
Tropidonotus sipedon sipedon L. Coluber sipedon L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 219 1758 JSferodia sipedon B. and G. I. c 38 JVatrix fasciata sipedon Cope I. c 671 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 969  T. fasciatus part BouL I. c I 242.
Size moderate almost invariably 23 rows and 8 upper labials old specimens sometimes much resemble some phases of T. s. fasciatus but as a rule the body is less stout.
When clear enough to be distinguished the pattern consists of a series of large brown dorsal spots separated by very narrow light interspaces the dorsal alternates with a series of lateral spots separated by light intervals as long as or longer than themselves.
Anteriorly the lateral spots are often obscure or wanting.
In old dark individuals the general aspect is ihat of a darkbrown snake crossed on the middle of the back by narrow light lines about half a scale wide margined with black.
The ventrals ai'e spotted but less heavily than in fasciatus.
Top of the head brown there is usually no postocular stripe but when the general color is light it is sometimes indicated.
Ventrals 130150 subcaudals 5980 Length 890 mm.
tail 205.
Hab.
 New England to the Carolinas west to Wisconsin and Kansas.
Tropidonotus sipedon transversus Hullowell.
T. transversus Hallow. Proc.
Arad.
Phila. 1852 177  Nerodia Woodhousii and JV.
iransrersa B. and G. I. c 42 148  iV.
.
transversa Cope I. c 672 and Rep. Nat.
Mus  973  T. fasciatus part Boul. I. c. I 242.
Size rather less than T. s. sipedon scales in 2325 rows upper labials 8 or 9 temporals 13  ventrals 140150 subcaudals 64 80.
Body color olive or brown a dorsal series of 3035 dark brown spots about four scales long and seven or eight wide black bordered in front and behind the interspaces aoout one scale wide an alternating series of upright rectangular dark brown blotches on the sides the intervals being w'ider than the blotches the dorsal and lateral series are not in contact belly yellow with the base of each ventral dusky.
Top of head dark olive with sometimes a yellowish elongated spot on the commissure of the parietals and two small yellow dots on the anterior border of the frontal.
Length about 860 mm.
tail 186.
Hab.Western Louisiana Texas and Arkansas.
Tropidonotu8 rhombifer Hallowell.
Pioc.
Acad.
Phila. 1852 177  Nerodia Ilolhrookii and i.
rJiomhifer B. and G. I. c 4.
'5 and 147 Natrix rhomhlfera Cope I. c 673 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 9G3  T. fusciatus part Boul.
I.e. I 242.
Size large scales in 25 or 27 rows Cope states that in thirteen individuals he found only one with 25 rows whereas in eight I find five with 25 one with 26 and two with 27 oculars 12 occasionally 3 or 4 postoculars  tempoials 12 3 ujiper labials 8 ventrals 141150 subcaudals 5778.
Reddish brown occasionally pale yellowish brown darker on the back a dorsal series of 3540 black blotches six or seven scales wide and two or three long separated by rather longer interspaces on each side an alternating series of vertical rectangular blotches each of which is connected by a black oblique bar from its upper corners to the contiguous lower corners of the dorsal spots.
Irregular crossbauds on the tail.
Belly yellow or gray with an orange tinge posteriorly a roundish black spot at the end of each ventral.
Top of head olive brown upper labials lighter olive lower labials and throat yellow all the labials narrowly margined Avith brown.
This snake resembles T. tazispilotus but has fewer scales and the spots are connected at the angles.
Length 1115 mm.
tail 220  probably reaches the size of T. s. fasciatus.
Hab.
 Southern Illinois and Indiana to Texas extends south to Vera Cruz.
Tropidonotus cyclopium Dum.
and Bib.
Erp.
Gen. VII 576 1854 Cope I. c 673 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 961  Boul. I. c I 244.
Size large scales in 29 rows occ.
31 oculars 12 3 temporals 12 3 upper labials 8 7 almost always 2 3 or 4 suboculars forming with the reand postoculars a ring around the eye ventrals 135150 subcaudals 6481.
Greenish or dark olive irregular broken darker bands about the width of one scale across the back to about the seventh row at intervals of about two scales oiiosite the interspaces on each side a vertically elongated llack blotch extending from the third to the sixth row  lely yellowish or greenish white the exterior base of each ventral clouded with dusky which increases posteriorly top of head dark brown lower half of upper labials lighter all labials witli dark mr.rgins.
The whole pattern is obscure and infold examples is not easy to make out.
Length 1200 mm.
tail 260.
Hab.
 Florida to New Orleans and sparingly up the Mississippi to southern Illinois.
Tropidonotus taxispilotus Ilolbrook.
 No.
Am.
Herp. IV 35 PI.
8 1813 NerocUa tnxispilotua B. and G. I. c 43  Natrix taxispilota Cope I. c 674 anti Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 959 T. taxispilotus Bonl. I. c I 215.
Largest of the American water snakes  body very stout  scales in 2933 rows strongly keeled  oculars 12 3 temporals 24 5 the parietal shields are small their hinder portion being usually broken up into small plates  upper labials 8 usually only the fourth entering the eye ventrals 130148 subcaudals 7090.
Reddish brown with a dorsal and lateral series of rectangular blackish brown blotches which alternate but do not touch belly yellowish white with irregular blotches of dark brown.
This species resembles both T. s. transversus and T. rhombifer but may always be known from the former b'' the increased number of scale rows and from the latter by the absence of the oblique bars connecting the dorsal and lateral spots.
An occasional specimen shows the orbital ring of scales fouud in T. cyclopiani.
Length 1300 mm.
tail 290.
Hab.
 From the Potomac river to Florida and New Orleans.
SEMINATRIX Cope.
Am.
Nat. 1895 678 and Rep. Nat.
Ias. 993 Contia part Cope I. c 599 Tropidonotus part Boul. I. c I 192. jNIaxillary teeth smooth slightly increasing posteriorly tin last two abruptly enlarged  body rather stout  head small and slightly distinct head scales normal one loreal nasal half divided no scale pits scales smooth on body sometimes faintly keeled on the tail.
Hab.
Florida.
Seminatrix pygsea Cope.
Contia pygcea Cope Proc.
Acad.
Pbila. 1871 222 and I. c 600 S. pygcE's Cope Am.
Nat. 1895 678 and Rep. Nat.
Mas. 993  Tropidonotus pygceus Boul. I. c I 228.
Size small tail short 2024 maxillary teeth smooth and slightly increasing posteriorly the last two abruptly enlarged mandibular teeth about 20 subequal head scales normal internasals small oculars 12 temporals 12 the anterior elongated upper labials variable in six which I have examined three have 7 one has 78 one has 8 and one has 9 17 rows of scales smooth on the body often faintly keeled on the tail ventrals 118130 subcaudals 3254.
Lustrous brownish black above with a faint pale longitudinal line on each scale most strongly marked on the sides belly yellow or salmon color each ventral with a small black bar on the exterior and outer margin.
Length 484 ram.
tail 109  of another specimen 330 mm.
tail 50.
Hab.
 Florida.
This species was included by Mr. Boulenger in his comprehensive genus Tropidonotus but the smooth body scales and absence of scale pits together with the wide difference in form and color pattern appear to me to Avarrant generic separation.
I have observed that in captivity these little snakes are fond of hiding under stones or bark in moist soil and this habit is confirmed by Ir.
Lcennberg.' On the whole I suspect that pygcea is a degenerating Tropidonotus in process of acquiring subterranean habits.
It is possible that the light line on the dorsal scales may indicate the former presence of keels but lately lost.
HELICOPS Wagler.
Syst.
Amph. 170 1830 Liodytes Cope .
c 6G6 Uelicops Boul. I. c I 272.
Maxillary teeth smooth posterior slightly longest no interspace one lorcal  one iuternasal two nasals body rather stout scales more or less keeled usually without pits anal divided.
Hab.
 Florida tropical America and Africa southern Asia.
Helicops alleni Garman.
Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hist. 1874 92 Liodytes allenii Cope I. c.  667 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 1013  Helicops alleni Boul. I. c I 275.
Maxillary teeth 1618 syncranterian mandibular teeth 1820 subequal body short and stout head slightly distinct tail short head scales normal except that the intcrnasal is single oculars 13 the anterior occasionally extending upwaxxl to meet the frontal tempoi'als 12.
In one specimen in my own collection the parietals extend to the labials behind the iiostoculars  upper labials 7 or 8 scales in 19 rows smooth excepting on the tail where a few rows are more or less distinctly keeled  as a rule scale  Proc.
V. 8.
Nat.
Mus. 1894 p. 323. pits are absent but in one specimen which I have examined they are irregularly present ventrals 121129 subcaudals 5863.
A dark brown dorsal area six to eight scales wide on each side of this a lighter olive stripe two rows wide then a dark lateral stripe from the third to the fifth row  belly and lalials yellow.
Length 484 mm.
tail 110.
Hab.
 Florida.
STORERIA n. and G. Cat.
No.
Am.
Serp. 135 1853 Cope I. c 074 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1000  Ischiiogiiathus part Boul. I. c I 285.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal no loreal  two nasals two internasals scales keeled without pits in 1517 rows anal divided size small  head distinct.
Hab.
 North and Central America.
17 rows 1 preocular ventrals whitish .
.
.
.
1.
S. dekayi.
15 rows 2 preoculars ventrals reddish .
2.
S. occipitomaculata.
Storeria dekayi Hoi brook.
Tropidonotus dekayi Holb. No.
Am.
Herp. Ill 53 PL XIV 1842  8. dekayi B. and G. I. c 135  Cope I. c 675 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1000  Ischnocjnaihus dekayi Boul. I. c I 286.
Head scales normal  no loreal  two nasals nostril generally between them oculars 12 temporals 11 2 upper labials 7 scales in 17 rows notched at the tip ventrals 120140 subcaudals 4063.
Length 350 mm.
tail 70.
Grayish to reddish brown or olive above with a lighter dorsal stripe about three scales wide bordered by a row of black dots or a black line sometimes traces of a second and third alternating series on the sides belly wiitish with black dots on the ends of the ventrals.
Hab.
 North America and Mexico east of the Rocky Mountains.
 There is possibly a question as to actual piiority of publication between Storeria B. and G. and Jschnognatlius Dum.
and Bib. both bearing the date 1853  the paper of Dumenl and Bibron having been read before the Academie des Sciences November 2 1852 and the Cat.
of No Am.
Serpetits being accepted for publication in the same month.
Both genera Avere established upon S. dekayi but as the definition given by Baird and Giraid is much more complete usage warrants the retention of their name.
Boulenger has much extended fschndfnathus and includes in it both Clonophis kirtlandi and Tropidoclonium lineutum.
Storeria occipitomaculata Slorer.
IVopidonotus occipilomiculatns Sfcorer Eep.
Rept.
Mas. 230 1839 S'.
occipitomaculatus B. and G. .
c 137  Cope I. c 6o and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1003  .
occijniomaculatus Boul. I. c I 287.
Head sciitellatiou like S. deJcayi but there are two preoculars and five or six upper labial.s the nostril is usually in the prenasal 15 rows of scales.
The size and proportions are similar.
Color of the back much the same but the vertebral stripe is less distinct and occasionally the outer row is lighter belly salmon color in life with the ends of the ventrals clouded with darker a light blotch on the vertex with a smaller one on each side of it and a light S2ot on the posterior labials.
Hab.
 North America east of the Rocky jNIouutains.
CLONOPHIS Cope.
Prop.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1888 .391  I. c 674  Tropidonotus part Cope Kep.
Nat.
3Ius. 995  Ischnognathus part Boul. I. c I 285.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal one loreal one nasal two iuternasals size small head not distinct scales keeled anal divided head not distinct.
Hall.
 North America.
Clonophis kirtlandi Keun.
Recjiiia kirtlandii Kenn.Pioc.
Acad.
Phila. 1856 9'5  Clonoplm Icirtlandii Cope. I. c 674 Tropidonotus kirtlandii Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 995  IschnogriUthus kirtlandi Boul. I. c I 286.
Head plates normal 1 nasal usually half divided oculars 12 temporals 11 2 upper labials 6 scales in 19 rows all keeled ventrals 123133 subcaudals 5059.
Length 496 mm.
tail 115.
Brown above with a dorsal series of large dark spots and a small alternating series on the sides belly yellowish or reddish with a black spot at the end of each ventral  labials yellowish.
Hab.
 Ohio to Michigan.
TROPIDOCLONIUM Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Pliila. 1860 76 .
c 666 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1011 Ischnofjnathus part Boul. I. c I 285.
INIaxillary teeth smooth equal one loreal one nasal two internasals size rather small head not distinct scales keeled anal entire.
Resembles Clonophis but has the anal single.
Hab.
 North America.
Tropidoclonium lineatum Ilallowell.
Microps Uncatus Hall. Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1850241  T. lineatum Cope I. c 6Q6 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 1011 Ischnognathus lineatus Boul. I. c I 289.
Head plates normal oculars 12 temporals 12 1 upper labials 5 or G  scales in 19 rows tlie two outer only faintly keeled ventrals 138148  suhcaudals 3437.
Length 350 ram.
tail 48.
Grayish brown w'th a light vertebral stripe bordered by a rov of black dots a light lateral stripe on the second and third rows belly light with two longitudinal series of black spots more distinct posteriorly.
Hab.
 Ohio to northei'u Texas.
AMPHIARDIS Cope.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1888 391  I. c 67o and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1008  Boul. I. c I 290.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal one loreal two nasals two internasals no preocular the loreal extending to the eye scales keeled anal divided size small body rather stout head not distinct tail short.
Hab.
 Texas.
Amphiardis inornatus Garman.
Virginia iiiornntu Garm. No.
Am.
Kept. 97 1883  A. inornatus Cope I. c 675 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1009  Boul. I. c 1 290.
Head scales normal  two internasals two nasals no preocular loreal long and vitli the prefrontals entering the orbit one postocular upper labials 5 temporals 11 scales in 17 rows lustrous the outer only faintly keeled ventrals 125129 subcaudals 36.
Length 260 mm.
tail 45.
Brownish olive above belly white base of ventrals dusky.
Hab.
 Two specimens known only from central Texas HALDEA B. and G. I. c 122  Cope I. c G75 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1009  Boul. I. c 1 290.
Maxillary teeth smooth subequal one loreal two nasals one internasal no preocular scales keeled without pits anal divided size small body slender head distinct tail short.
Hab.
 North America.
Haldea striatula L. Coluber Htriatidm L. Syst Nat. Ed.
XII 37.5 1766 IlnUea striatula B. and G. I. c 122  Cope I. c 676 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1009  Boul. I. c I 291.
Only one internasal head plates otherwise normal loreal long and reaching the eye no preocular 1 postocular temporals 11 upper labials 5 .scales in 17 rows ventrals 120135 subcaudals 3650.
Length 250 mm.
tail 45.
Uniform reddish or grayish brown above salmon color underneath sometimes an indistinct light band across the parietals.
Hab.
 Virginia to Minnesota and south to Texas.
SPILOTES Wagler.
Syst.
Amph.. 179 1830 Georria B. and G. I. c 92  Spilotes Cope I. c 636  Spilotes and Coluber part Boul. I. c. II 2324  Compsosoma Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 857.
Maxillary teeth smooth nearly equal head scales normal loreal sometimes absent one preocular scales smooth or keeled with two pits sometimes in an even number of rows anal entire size large  head moderately distinct body sometimes compressed on the back.
Hab.
 North and South America.
Spilotes corals Boie.
Coluber corais Boie Isis 1827 537.
This large species ranges from the southern United States to Brazil  typical corals is South American but there are several subspecies one of which only enters the United States.
Spilotes corais couperi Holbrook.
Coluber couperii Holb. No.
Ara.
Herp. Ill 75 PI.
16 1842 Georgia Couperii and G. obsoleta B. and G. I. c 92 158 S'.
c. couperii Cope I. c 037 Coluber corais part Bonl. .
c II 31  Compsosoma corais couperii Cope Rep. Nat.
Mns. 858.
Maxillary teeth 1718 slightly enlarged posteriorly mandibular teeth about 16 a little longer in front internasals small to nasals loreal quadrangular oculars 12 temporals 22  upper labials 8 7 either the fifth or sixth small and triangular scales smooth in 17 rows ventrals 184198 subcaudals 6073.
Lustrous black above belly slaty black on the anterior ven'' Tlie restriction of this genus to .snakes having the dorsal rows in even number does not appear to me justifiable.
The type of Spilotes Wagler is .S'.
pullatus which species alone Boalensrer admits in the genus.
It however has the scales frequently in an odd number  two specimens from Trinidad formerly in the Zoiilogical Garden had 15 and 17 rows respectively iProc.
Acad.
Phila. 1893 42.
trals dark red ofteu appears which usually shows plainly on the chin  upper labials light Avith red or blackish margins.
This species is one of the largest of North American snakes in Florida it reaches about 1900 mm.
tail 350 and along the lower Rio Grande in Texas it exccds those dimensions.
Hab.
 Georgia and Florida to eastern Texas northern IMexico.
COLUBER L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 216 1758 Scotoiihis B. and G. I. c 7i  Elaphis part D. and B. I. c VII 241  Coluber Cope .
c 630 and liep.
Nat.
Mus. 825  Coluber part Boa. I. c II 24.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal  one loreal  two nasals two internasals one preocular two prefrontals scales in 1935 rows generally more or less keeled with two pits anal divided size moderately large head distinct.
Hab.
 Northern hemisphere.
Reliable specific characters drawn from the scutellation are wanting in the American species of Coluber.
The proportions of the frontal and parietal plates upon which some stress has been laid are so variable with age and in individuals that little importance can be attached to them singly except that in vulpinus and still more in llndhehneri the anterior border of the frontal is wide and the lateral angles are obtuse so that the plate is often subtriangular.
Cope divides the species into sections according to the number of anterior temporals but I find them by no means constant enough to serve that purpose.
The number of veutrals and subcaudals is not diagnostic the limits of variability overlapping in most species although quaclrivittatus a longtailed species has the largest number of subcaudals and vidjnnus which is short and thick has the least.
There are fairly constant diflerences in pattern and color and upon these with a totality of other characters they may be divided with some certainty.
Key to the American Species.
a.
 Scales smooth or fi to 13 rows weakly keeled Light gray with brown spots 1.
C. emoryi.
Red with brickred spots 2.
7. guttatus.
Yellow with four brown stripes .
.
o.
C qxiadrivittaiiis.
h.  Scales with 9 to 21 rows more strongly keeled 911 rows keeled yellow with distinct spots 4.
C. vulpinus.
921 rows keeled black above or yellow with spots lateral spots elongated 5.
C. obsoletns.
Coluber guttatus L. Sysfc.
Nat. Ed.
XII 386 1766 Scotophis fjuttatm B. and G. I. c 78 C. guttatus and C. fj.
sellatus Cope I. c 633 and Rep. Nat.
Mns. 833 836  C guttatus part BouL I. c II 39.
Froutal a trifle longer than road rather broad behind usually a little shorter than the snout oculars 12 temporals 23 4 upper labials 8 fourth and fifth entering the orbit 11 or 12 lower labials five touching anterior chin shields  scales usually in 27 rovFs rarely 29 very slightly keeled on about five rows ventrals 215240 subcaudals 6179.
Length 1200 mm.
tail 190.
Light red paler on the sides dorsal blotches darker red with black borders and a narrow margin of dark red outside of the black  the dorsal spots reach to about the seventh row of scales  below these there is a second alternating series of smaller spots which sometimes have a tendency to run together longitudinally and a third series on the ends of the ventrals and the two outer rows.
lu some specimens the dorsal spots are wider and the laterals are mostly absent or form an indistinct longitudinal stripe this is C. j. sellatus Cope the type specimens of which had 29 rows of scales but a very similar specimen in my own collection from Lake Kerr Florida has but 27.
The color beneath is yellowish white with quadrangular blotches of black on the outer ends of the ventrals.
The head is usually but not always banded above.
Hab.
 Virginia to Florida and west to the Mississippi river.
Coluber quadrivittatus Holbrook.
No.
Am.
Herp. 11189 Plate XX 1842 Scotophis quadrivittatus B. and G. I. c 80  G. quadrivittatus and C. rosaceiis Cope I. c 633 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 838 837 C. obsoletus part BouL I. c II 51.
Frontal narrow behind a little longer than broad in front temporals 22 3 upper labials 8 occasionally 9 and in one example 7 on one side the fourth and fifth entering the eye lower labials 11 to 13 four or five touching the anterior chin shields 27 rows of scales of which from five to thirteen are weakly keeled ventrals 232250 subcaudals 86105 one examined by me has the abnormally small number of 66.
Body color yellow or buft sometimes faintly greenish with four longitudinal stripes of dark brown  the laterals on the fourth and part of the third and fifth and the upper ones on the eleventh and part of the tenth and twelfth rows.
In some specimens the body color is dark chestnut.
Underneath and on top of head yellow unmarked.
The young in this species are spotted the spots at subsequent stages fusing into stripes.
One specimen 1720 mm.
long from Florida now living in the Zoological Gardens shows ihese spots quite plainly outlined on the back fortyone in number from head to vent with the stripes running across them.
There are also faint remains of lateral spots.
This mixture of immature and adult characters probably accounts for G. rosaceus Cope.
Reaches a length of 1800 mm.
tad 300.
Hab.
 North Carolina to Florida.
Coluber obsoletus Say.
Long's Exp.
to Rocky Mts. I MO 1823.
Frontal about equals the length of snout rather broad in front anteiior temporals usually 2 but occasionally 1 or 3 posterior temporals 3 4 usually 8 upper labials fourth and fifth in eye 11 to 13 lower labials scales in from 25 to 29 rows from 9 to 21 of which are keeled ventrals 224258 subcaudals 7586.
The color ranges from black above to gray or yellowish with dark spots the lateral spots are more or less elongated  head not distinctly banded in adults.
Size medium to large and stout.
Hab.
 New England to the Gulf and west to the central plains.
Three good color forms may be distinguished Black above sometimes with indistinct spots .
1.
C o. obsoletus.
Yellowish wnth leadcolored spots red on sides 2.
Co. lindheimeri.
Gray or pale brown with brown spots .
.
.
3.
C. o. conjinis.
Coluber obsoletus obsoletus Say.
I. c 140  Scotophis alleglieniensis B. and G. I. c 73  O. obsoletus obsoletus part Cope I. c 635 and Rep. Nat.
Miis. 844 O. obsoletus part Boul. I. c II 50.
Frontal about equals or slightly exceeds the length of snout rather broad behind temporals 23 8 upper labials fourth and fifth in eye one large specimen in the Academy's collection has 7 the third and fourth in eye  in this snake the prefrontals are only partially divided lower labials 11 four or five touching the anterior chin shields 27 or 25 rows of scales nine to seventeen keeled in adults usually fifteen or seventeen ventrals 224246 subcaudals 7590.
48 PEOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF Jan. Color black above brownish in the young the dorsal spots are indistinctly outlined but not enough as a rule to make them out except in young or newlyshed individuals.
In some specimens the skin on the sides is more or less red.
The belly is usually slaty black behind yellow anteriorly more or less maculated with black blotches throat and chin white labials yellow margined with black.
A living specimen from Pennsylvania 1080 mm.
long shows thirty indistinct dorsal spots and has considerable red skin on the flanks which shows between but does not invade the scales.
Reaches a length of about 1850 mm.
tail 320.
Hab.
 Massachusetts to Illinois and southwest to Texas rare in Florida.
Coluber obsoletus lindheimeri B. and G. Scofophis LincUieimerii B. and G. I. c 74  C. o. obsoletus part Cope I. c 635 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 844  C. obsoletus part Boul. I. c II 50.
Frontal about equal or a trifle shorter than the snout the anterior border about equals its length and the lateral angles are obtuse so that the shape is subtriangular temporals 233 4 8 upper labials in one case 9 fourth and fifth in eye 12 to 14 lower labials from four to six touching the anterior chin shields scales in 27 or 29 rows five have 27 three have 29 one has 31 from 11 to 21 keeled never very strongly  ventrals 227231 subcaudals 7081.
Yellowish above with a dorsal series of dark leadcolored spots five or six scales long and thirteen to fifteen wide the interspaces of the body color are about two scales long and many of the scales have lead colored centres another series of elongated blotches on the' third to the seventh row ventrals with dark spots on the ends and outer scale rows at intervals of several scoles otherwise yellowish white often clouded posteriorly.
The bases and margins of many scales in the light interspaces are rusty red in every living specimen that I have seen this fades rapidly in alcohol.
Top of head is uniform lead color without bands.
The eye is rather large.
Length 1525 mm.
tail 230.
Hab. Texas.
The distinctness of the color pattern at all ages the red on the scales of the flanks the slight but as it appears to me very general difference in the shape of the frontal with an aparently circumscribed geographical range are quite enough in my opinion to compel recognition of this subspecies.
Coluber obsoletus confinis B. and G. Scotophis confinis nnd S. Imtus B. and G. I. c 76 77  ElapJiis spiloides Dum.
and Bib. I. c VII 209 Coluber confinis G. sjnloides and C. 0.
Icmniscatas Cope I. c 633 634 63.5 and Hep.
Nat.
Mus. 829 841 849  G. Imtus part Boul. I. c II 49  C. Imtus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mas. 850.
Frontal rather longer than wide a little longer than the snout  temporals 2 l3 upper labials 8 fourth and fifth in eye five lower labials touching the anterior chin shields scales in 2725 rows eleven or thirteen .slightly keeled ventrals 231258 subcaudals 7596.
Ashy or yellowish gray above with dark brown dorsal spots narrowly margined with black five or six scales long and thirteen to fifteen wide longitudinally quadrate in shape  interspaces about two scales long on the second to fifth rows the lateral spots are elongated and exhibit sometimes a disposition to form an indistinct stripe belly yellow clouded posteriorly and with dark spots on the ends of the ventrals and the outer scale rows  a dark postocular stripe some indistinct mottling on borders of the labials but no distinct head bands in adults.
Hab.
 From Virginia to Florida west to Missouri and Texas.
I am not able to satisfy myself that spiloklea Dum and Bib.
and Icetus B. and G. are distinct from the present form  Cope indeed places them in three different sections of Coluber assigning a different number of anterior temporals to each  one to confinis two to spiloides and three to Icetus.
But the single specimen in his own collection considered by him to be confinis has two which is the normal number while the figures of Icetus given by Baird in Marcy's Report of the Red River Exp. PL VI and Pcic.
R. R. Survey PL XXX fig.
53 both represent that species as also having two.
The three temporals in Cope's fig.
196 p. 851 have every appearance of abnoi'mality.
The difference in pattern slated in the description of Icetus is probably accounted for by the youth of the type which is but 460 mm.
long while the occurrence of 25 rows as in spiloides is quite nrrmal and 29 as in Icetus would not be startling in C. o. confinis.
Coluber emoryi B. and G. Scotophis Emoryi B. and G. I. c 157  O. emoryi Cope I. c 636 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 852  C. giittatus part Boul. I. c II 39.
Frontal rather long but little shorter than the snout temporals 2 33 4 upper labials 8 fourth and fifth in eye lower labials 11 five touching the anterior chin shields scales in 27 rows occ.
29 all smooth or sometimes a few faintly keeled ventrals 210235  subcaudals 7278.
' Ground color rather pale gray with a dorsal row of olivaceous brown blotches with black borders three or four scales long and ten or twelve wide separated by interspaces 1 to 2 scales long a second series of smaller alternating spots from the third to the seventh rows subcircular in shape a third indistinct series oq the second and third rows and a fourth indicated on the outer roAV and the ends of the ventrals belly yellowish or Avhite with irregular ashy blotches posteriorly  top of head much banded and a dark oblique postocular stripe.
The number of dorsal spots varies greatly those now living in the collection of the Zoological Society ranging from thirtyone to fifty in number on the body and from seventeen to twentyone on the tail.
Length 1330 mm.
tail 190.
Hab.
 Kansas to Texas south to Chihuahua.
Coluber vulpinus B. and G. Scotophis vulpinus B. and G. I. c 75  C. vulpinus Cope I. c 633 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 831  Boul. I. c II 49.
Frontal shorter than snout with anterior border about equal to its length and with obtuse lateral angles  temporals 23  upjJer labials 8 fourth and fifth in eye lower labials 11 five touching anterior chin shields 2527 rows of scales nine to eleven feebly keeled ventrals 196208 subcaudals 5169 form stout.
Ground color light brown dorsal spots dark brown and quadrate in shape about four scales long and from eleven to thirteen wide  interspaces about two scales long.
There are from 2942 dorsal spots on the body and 814 on the tail there is a subcircular alternating series on the third to the seventh rows and another of square blotches on the outer row and the ends of tne ventrals rest of the belly yellow with dark blotches in the middle usually involving two ventrals anteriorly the belly is unmarked no head bands in the aduL except the oblique postocular stripe edges of labials slightly margined eye small.
Length about 1450 mm.
tail 230.
C vulpimis is relatively stouter and has a shorter tail than the other American species of Coliibei'.
Hab.
 Illinois to Minnesota south to Nebraska.
A snake belonging to this genus collected at Fort Davis Texas having 9 upper labials 27 rows of scales of which six are slightly keeled warm grayish ash color with a series of narrow brown dorsal spots eighty in number and the lateral series indistinct was described by Dr. Yarrow under the name of Coluber baircU in Cope Bullet in U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
17 p. 41 1880.
The specimen remains unique and its relations are consequently doubtful.
RHINECHIS Michahelles.
Wagl. loon.
Amph. PI.
25 1833 Cope I. c 637 and Eep.
Nat.
Miis. 862  Coluber part BouL I. c II 24.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal one loreal one preocular two internasals two nasals rostral entering between the interuasals and projecting anteriorly scales smooth with two pits in 27ol rows anal entire size moderate head small and slightly distinct.
Hab.
 Southwestern United States and Mexico.
Rhinechis elegans Kenn.
Arizona elegtois Kenn. U. S. and Mex.
Bound.
Surv.
Kept. 18 PI.
XIII 1859 Van Den. I. c 193  Wdnechis elerjans Cope I. c 638 and Rep. Nat.
jNIus. 863  Coluber arizonce BouL I. c II 66.
Body not very stout head slightly distinct snout projecting rostral extending posteriorly between the internasals two nasals oculars 1 22 loreal long and narrow temporals 23 4 upper labials 8 scales iu 2731 rows ventrals 207227 subcaudals 4559.
Brownish or reddish yellow above a dorsal series of transvei'se brown spots eight or nine scrfles wide edged with darker brown and two alternating series on each side the upper one subcircular the lower indistinct and on the three outer scale rows belly white or yellowish without markings  a dark oblique streak behind the eye and indistinct bands or spots on the head a few small .spots on the anterior labials.
The largest of two specimens from Pecos Tex. now living in the Zoological Society's collection measures 1100 mm.
tail 150.
The dorsal interspaces are pink.
Hab.
 Texas to southern California and northern Mexico.
PITYOPHIS llolljrook.
Pituophis Holb. No.
Am.
Herp. IV 7 1842 B. and G. I c 64 Cope I. c 638 and Eep.
Nat.
Miis. 865  Coluber part Boul. I. c II 24.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal rostral exteuded behind one loreal one preocular with sometimes a small one beneath tAvo nasals two internasals four to six prefrontals scales keeled with pits in 2935 rows anal entire size large head moderately distinct.
Hab.
 North America and Mexico.
The species of Pityohis within the United States may be determined upon the following grounds P. melanohucus from the eastern States has a high rostral in most cases reaching the prefrontals and has large dorsal spots 2635 in number on the body  usually about the four outer rows of scales are smooth.
P. sayi from west of the Mississippi to the Rocky Mountains has the rostral less high usually reaching about twothirds of the distance to the prefrontals and has smaller spots 4060 on the body and usually seven or eight smooth rows of scales.
P. catenifer from the Pacific coast west of the Sierra Nevada has a low rostral usually not penetrating between the internasals and agrees generally in pattern with sayi.
These characters of the rostral and the dorsal spots are fairly constant but examination of a considerable number of specimens from the region of the Great Basin leaves no doubt in my mind that the form found there intergrades with both catenifer and sayi and reduces them to subspecies.
The two species recognized here may in almost every case be distinguished by color characters alone  Rostral high no head bands spots large and few 1.
P. melanoleucus.
Rostral lower head bands distinct spots small and many 2.
P. catenifer.
Pityophis catenifer Blainville.
Coluber catenifer BL Nouv.
Ann.
du Mus. IV 290 PI.
21 fig.
2 1835.
In this species the rostral varies from low and broad to high and narrow above penetrating sometimes between the internasals but not reaching the prefrontals prefrontals usually four but occa1901.
XATURAL SCIEXCES OF PIIILADFLPIIIA.
53 gionally six preucular 1 with occasionally a small additional one below three postoculars  temporals 34 5 upper labials 8 or 9  scales in 2735 rows from three to twelve outer rows smooth  the dorsal spots are quite small and range from 4070 in number on the body three series of more or less defined spots on the sides the head is transversely banded between the orbits from the orbit vertically downward on the labials and obliquely from the postoculars to the angle of the mouth ventrals 205243 subcaudals 5072.
The three subspecies may usually be distinguished by the shape of the rostral  Rostral low and broad 1.
P. c. catenifer.
Rostral higher 2.
P. c hellona.
Rostral highest 3.
P. e. sayi.
Pityophis catenifer catenifer Blainville.
Coluber catenifer BL I. c 290 Pltuophis catenifer P. Wilkesii and P. annectens B. and G. I. c 69 71 72  P. catenifer Cope I. c 41 and Eep.
Nat.
Mns. 876  Coluber catenifer part Boul. I. c II 67 P. catenifer Van Den. I. c 195.
In this Pacific coast form the rostral is lowest of all and reaches without penetrating the internasals upper labials 8 or 9 temporals 2 34 scales in 2935 rows none strongly keeled and from four to eleven smooth.
Usually there are not more than five smooth rows but a large specimen from Fort Tejon Cal.
No.
3800 Academy coll.
 has eleven smooth on each side.
Very little reliance can be placed however on the number of smooth rows in any gf the species of PUijophis as they not infrequently vary in different parts of the same individual.
Ventrals 205230 subcaudals 5070.
Ground color yellowish or brownish  there are usually 5070 dorsal spots on the body but sometimes these are as few as 36 from 1521 on the tail anteriorly the spots are black becoming brownish toward the tail belly yellowish with a series of dark spots on the ends of the ventrals and sometimes another illdefined series on the middle the head bands are distinct.
Length 1900 mm.
tail 315.
Hab.
 Pacific coast west of the Sierra Nevada.
Pityophis catenifer bellona B. aud G. Churchillia bellona B. and G. Stans.
Exp.
Salt Lake 350 1852 P. bellona part B. and G. I. f  66 and Pac.
K. R. Surv.
Rept. PI.
XXIX fig.
4i  P. sayi bellona Cope I. c 641 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 872  Coluber catenifer part and C. melanolcucus part Boul. I. c. II 67 68  P. catenifer deserticola Slej. No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 Pt.
II 206.
Tliis form appears to be found through the socalled Great Basin from Arizona northward to Utah and jSevada.
The rostral is ahnost always higher than in P. c. catenifer but less so than in P. c. sayi it commonly penetrates between the iuternasals about onethird of their length.
No.
3978 Academy collection from Ogdeu Utah has the rostral barely touching the interuasals as in P. c. catenifer aud has a maximum of six rows of smooth scales.
No.
3782 from Owens' Valley Cal. has the iostral penetrating further fully onethird and has three rows of smooth scales.
No.
10378 from Salt Lake has the rostral as in No.
3782.
This specimen 1040 mm.
long was taken in 1899 and has sixtyfour spots on the body with seventeen on the tail 31 rows of scales of which four are smooth the colors are very distinct and on the posterior twothirds of the body the light interspaces are pink.
Mr. Stejneger .
c  has applied the name ceseHicoa to this form on the ground that bellona B. and G. is a synonym of sayi.
It is probably true that the type of bellona  now lost  belonged to the plains form but as Prof.
Cope points out Baird's plate in the Pacific R. R. Survey represents the one now under consideration.
In such a case when there is a question as to absolute invalidity I see no good reason for supflantiug an old and wellknown name by a new one.
The intensify of color including the pink tinge on the hinder half of the body is hardly sufficient for subspecific distinction for even if it should be constant  and some examples which have been four years in alcohol do not show it  it is of no great importance and Florida specimens of P. vielanoleucHs would be quite as well entitled to separation on account of their rufous tints.
The size of this form seems to be about as in P. c. catenifer.
Hab.
 California east of the Sierra Nevada Utah and Nevada south to Arizona and New Mexico.
Pityophis catenifer sayi Schlegel.
Coluber sayi Sch. Ess.
Phys.
Serp. II 157 1837 PituopMs bellona part P. McCUUanii and P. sayi B. and G. I. c 66 68 151  P. sayi sayi Cope.
I. c 641 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 870  Coluber melanoleucus part Boul. I. c II 68.
The rostral is narrow above and penetrates the internasals about twothirds of their length  an inferior preocular is frequently present upper labials 8 or 9  scales in 273o rows usually five to nine smooth the dorsal spots are larger and usually fewer in number than in the other forms of catenifer but an occasional specimen exhibits an equally large number.
There are sometimes as few as forty but two living specimens in my possession show respectively fiftythree and sixtynine veutrals 215230 subcaudals 5062.
The body color is yellowish or reddish brown  the spots are black anteriorly and more or less blackish brown posteriorly  the belly is yellowish with a small dark blotch on the end of each alternate ventral labials margined with dark brown the head bauds are usually distinct but in two large specimens from Pecos Tex.
 they are almost obsolete.
The largest I have measured is 1990 mm tail 190 greatest circumference 210 mm.
This species doubtless reaches a length of over two metres.
Hab.
 The range is very extensive from Canada to Mexico between the Mississippi river and the Rocky Mountains.
It has also been taken in Illinois.
No.
4689 Academy collection from Vernon British Columbia is not distinguishable from it in fact in this specimen the posterior extension of the rostral approaches melanoleucus.
PityopMs melanoleucus Daudin.
Coluber melanoleucus Daud. Hist. des Rept. VI 409 1803 PituopMs melanoleucus B. and G. I. c 65  Cope I. c 640 and Rep. Nat.
3Ius. 867  Coluber melanoleucus part Boul. I. c II 68.
In the eastern form the rostral reaches the extreme of elevation in many cases completely separating the internasals and being iu contact with the prefrontals usuall four prefrontals oculars 13 sometimes a small subpreocular temporals small 4 35 upper labials 8 scales in from 2733 rows usually 27 or 29 of which in most cases four to seven are smooth in a large specimen from New Jersey there are seven smooth rows anteriorly and four on the hinder part of the body.
Body color whitish or buff h'ghter on the sides.
The dorsal spots are larger than in catenifer and range from 2535 on the body and 58 on the tail they are blackish brown more or less marked with paler brown on their centres two or three series of rather indistinct spots on the sides belly ivory white with brown spots on the ends of the ventrals at intervals of about four scales.
There are no distinct head bands in adults though they are shown by the young.
The top of the head is yellow each plate more or less marked by pale brown labials margined Avith brown.
Of nearly one hundred Florida specimens which I have seen all were uniformly tinged with rusty brown over the whole upper surface.
Ventrals 210230 subcaudals 5265.
The largest which I have measured was 1837 mm.
long tail 185.
Hab.
 New Jersey to Ohio and south to the Gulf coast most common along the seacoast.
ZAMENIS AVagler.
Syst.
Amph. 188 1830 Bascanion and Masticoplm B. and G. I. c 93 98  Bascanivtm Cope I. c 621  Zamenis fpart BouL I. c 1 379 and Cope Eep.
Nat.
3Ius. 787.
Maxillary teeth smooth increasing gradually behind with sometimes a slight interspace one loreal two preoculars the lower very small two nasals two internasals scales smooth or faintly keeled with pits anal divided body long and slender head distinct.
Hab.
 Europe Asia and North America.
The North American species  Bascanium B. and G.  have a purely syncranterian dentition and smooth scales.
The forms inhabiting the southern tier of states are puzzling in the extreme.
To reach conclusions which shall at least have the merit of consistency the changes which take place with growth in the bestknown species from the eastern Gulf States Z. f. flagellum must be considered.
Here the young are pale brownish with narrow darker crossbauds on the whole upper surface an occasional specimen also shows indistinct wider crossbands anteriorly.
The outer four or five rows of scales rather more anteriorly have pale edges leaving a narrow dark line on the centre of each scale giving the appearance of four or five narrow broken stripes on the sides.
In eastern examples these markings usually disappear with age although the crossbands occasioually persist.
From Texas westward there are forms in which the crossbands have become fixed and others in wliich more or less of the lateral stripes have become likewise permanent and even more distinct although in these last the narrow crossbands have disappeared in the young which are striped.
It must also be borne in mind that there is a marked inequality in the color intensity of all the American species as there is a tendency for the color to remain pale on the hinder half of the body involving the disappearance of the pattern.
This is the case even in the uniformly colored species as Z. e. constrictor in which the change to the light colors of vestern specimens first shows on the tail and Z. f. pkeiis in which the bases of the scales posteriorly are pale.
The relative proportions in width of the hinder part of the frontal and supraocular plates are also growth characters and therefore irregular and in my belief will bear only a small part of the weight which lias been placed upon them.
Duly considering the various combinations in adults of these early characters I conclude that the Z. flagellam group extends from Florida to California with two forms in addition to the typical one which demand recognition  these are Z. f. piceus and Z. f. frenatus.
The striped forms extending from Texas to California have become differentiated to the point of wider separation and seem to me to fall into two species Z. txeniatus with a subspecies Z. t. ornatiis and Z. lateralis.
Z. schotti B. and G. and Z. semilineatus Cope I can regard only as fortuitous examples of tceniatas and lateralis respectively.
This is almost a complete reversal of the views held by Prof.
Cope but the facts appear to me to indicate that the subspecies here admitted are tending in the direction of fixed characters while those rejected are no more than instances of incomplete development.
Key to the Species.
A.
 Adults not striped 17 rows of scales 7 upper labials black bluish olive or green 1.
Z. constrictor.
8 upper labials pale brown or dark in front 2.
Z. flacjelhon.
B.
 AVith stripes on the sides 17 rows brown w'ith a narrow yellow stripe on third and fourth rows 3.
Z. lateralis.
15 rows brown with 35 narrow dark stripes on sides 4.
Z. tieniatus.
Zameuis constrictor L. Coluber constrictor L. Sjst.
Nat. Ed.
X 216 1758.
Body slender with long tail head scales normal frontal rather more than half the width of supraoculars behind two nasals one loreal oculars 22 temporals 22  upper labials 7 rarely 8 scales in 17 rows ventrals 164189 subcaudals 79110.
Length 1525 mm.
tail onefourth to onefifth.
Eastern specimens are black alove and slate color beneath  west of the Mississippi they are usually green or olive above yellow beneath.
There are transitional stages between these extremes and they are good subspecies  Size larger black above slate color beneath 1.
Z. c. constrictor.
Size smaller green or olive above yellow beneath 2.
Z. c. Jiaviventris.
Zamenis constrictor constrictor II. c 216 Bascanion constrictor B. and G. I. c 93  B. constrictor part Cope I. c 6i3  Zamenis constrictor part Boul. I. c I 387 and Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 791.
Examples from the east are lustrous black above belly slate color chin and throat white.
One specimen from Pennsylvania now living in the Zoological Gardens presents the curious anomaly of a distinctly brown snout.
In the western portion of its range it becomes bluish or olive black and the belly gets lighter.
The young are unlike the adults being gray spotted or crossbanded with darker.
Ventrals 175189 subcaudals 83110.
The length of the largest I have seen was 1470 mm.
tail 310.
Hab.
 United States east of the central plains northern Mexico.
Zamenis constrictor flaviventris Say.
Coliiher jhuilventrls S.iy Long's Exp. IT 185 1823  Bascanion flaviventris and B. vetustus B. and G. I. c 96 97  B. constrictor part Cope I. c 623  Zamenis constrictor part Boul. I. c I 3S7 and Cope Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 791  B. c. vetustnm Van Den. I. c 183  Z. stejnegerianus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 797.
Size rather smaller and body more slender than in B. c. constrictor  the scutellation is similar but an eighth labial is more fiequentiy present ventrals 164188 subcaudals 7995.
Length about 1100 mm.
tail rather more than onefourth.
In examples from the plains the color is often bright green above and bright yellow underneath chin and throat paler yellow such specimens arc usual in Kansas and Oklahoma yestward and on tle Pacific coast the color darkens to olive more or less yellowish green beneath.
I see no reason for regarding Z. stejnegerianns Cope as anything more than the present subspecies with eight labials.
The subdivision of the loreal is so obviously abnormal that it is not worth considering.
The type and only specimen came from southeastern Texas.
Hab.
 United States west of the Mississippi river.
Zamenis flagellum Shaw.
Coluhcr jiacdlum Shaw Gen.
Zool. Ill Pt.
11475 1802 Stej. Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1894 595.
This species has the scutellation of Z. constrictor but the labials are 8  the frontal has half the width of the supraoculars behind  the muzzle is more elevated and the tail is longer ventrals 184210 subcaudals 80112.
The young are crossbanded and this pattern persists in some cases until they are grown.
Hab.
 Southern United States from Florida to California.
There appear to be three color forms  Pale brown dark brown anteriorly ... 1.
Z. f. fiagellum.
Brown  narrow crossbands in front .
.
.
2.
Z. f. frenatum.
Dark brown pink beneath Z.
Z. j. jiiceus.
Zamenis flagellum flagellum Shaw.
I. c 475  Mastic oplids flag elllformia and Coluber testaceus B. and G. I. c 98 150  B. flirelliforme Cope I. c 625 Zamenis flagelUformis part Boul. I. c. I 389  Z.
.flagellum part Cope Rep. Nat Mus. 799.
Body slender with very long tail  the upper preocular very large upper labials 8 rarely 7 scales in 17 rows ventrals 184210 subcaudals 80112.
Reaches an extreme length of 1800 mm.
tail 385 to 430.
In adults the head and anterior portion of the body is blackish brown then dark brown back to the posterior half or third of the body which is pale yellowish brown each scale with a darker basal margin  belly yellowish posteriorly black or brown under the dark anterior portion somewhat spotted behind sometimes each ventral is mai'gined with brown  generally a light spot on the preoculars chin and throat white more or less spotted with brown.
The young have narrow crossbands on the body which are sometimes retained to maturity.
A Florida specimen 1780 mm.
long now living in the Zoological Gardens shows these bands on the pale posterior portion of the body after shedding.
Another also from Florida has indistinct wide crossbands as in Z. t. ornafus.
Examples from west of the Mississippi are often of paler colors with dark heads and adults sometimes show the wide crossbands and even indications of the liglit lateral stripes of ornatus.
I was formerly of the opinion that testaceuni Say should be admitted as a pale desert form but examination of a considerable number of living specimens fi'om central Texas and westward satisfy me that occasional individuals only show its extreme paleness.
Hab.
 South Carolina and Florida to Arizona northern Mexico.
Zamenis flagellum frenatus Stej.
N. Am.
Fauna No.
7208 1893 Z. f. flagellum part Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 802  Z. fiagelliformis part Boul. I. c I 389.
Mr. Stejneger has proposed to regard as a subspecies the form of Z. fiftfjelhim from Arizona and westward with permanent crossbands on the anterior portion of the body.
This is the retention of a juvenile character which was referred to under the preceding subspecies and which would doubtless be moi'e evident in eastern specimens were it not iov the dark color which pervades those parts in the adult but there is so strong a disposition for this character to become permanent in the far west that Mr. Stejneger is probably right in recognizing the form.
The following description is taken from a beautiful living specimen lately received from Yuma Ariz. through the kindness of Mr. Herbert Brown  17 rows of scales 8 upper labiais veutrals 193 subcaudals 100 length 1400 mm.
tail 345.
Body color rather pale brown extending to the ventrals most of the scales are darker at the tip and faintly edged with pink the lower edge of the outer row and the adjacent ends of the ventrals are whitish forming an indistinct line which is more obvious anteriorly and disappears before reaching the tail the three or four outer rows are faintly darker in the centre suggesting the dark lateral stripes of Z. tcenlatus.
The anterior fourth of the body is crossed by indistinct bands one and a half to two scales wade top of head rather darker brown witli a light spot on the preand postoculars indications of a light line from the nostril to the eye  upper labials yellow on the lower margin more broadly behind belly yellowish much clouded Avith pink which tends to form longitudinal stripes in front throat and chin yellow spotted with dark brown.
Hab.
 Arizona Nevada Utah and southern California.
Zamenis flagellum piceus Cope.
Bascaniuni piceum Cope I. c 6'25  Z. flarjeUiformis part BouL I. c I.
389  B.f. piceus Cope Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 804  B. pkeiiiii Stej. No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 209.
The type specimen from Camp Grant Arizona has 19 rows of scales 17 is probably the usual number as Mr. Stejueger mentions one with that number which agrees with a living example received at the Zoological Gardens in 1894 from Tucson this specimen had 8 upper labials on one side and 9 on the other.
The color in life was a rich dark brown wiih a purplish tinge posteriorly most of the scales were light brown at the base the belly was pink slightly spotted with dusky Avhich increased anteriorly until the throat was nearly black  there was a little pink on the preoculars and lower labials rest of head very dark.
The pink rapidly faded to yellow in alcohol.
This specimen is now in the Academy's collection.
Ventrals 196 subcaudals 108 length 1650 mm.
tail 380 Cope's specimen measured 1263 mm and the tail was proportionately longer 355 mm Hab. The three specimens known aie from southern Arizona.
Zamenis lateralis Ilallowell.
LeptopMs lateralis Hall. Proc.
Acad.
Phila.
1853 237  Buscanium latcrale lai er ale Coie I. c 628  Zamenis tseniat us part Boul. I. c I 300  B. laterale Van Den. I. c 188  Z. lateralis lateralis and Z. semilineatus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 808 805.
Scales in 17 rows upper labials 8 tail between onethird and onefourth of the length ventrals 190199  subcaudals 105123 Length about 1500 mm.
Brown above with a narrow yellow stripe on the third and fourth rows sometimes extending to the tail and often narrowly bordered with black belly yellow with a few dark spots under the throat and chin no spots on top of head a more or less distinct light spot on the temporals and a light line from the nostril to the eye labials light a little spotted Hab.
 Arizona and southern California.
Zamenis taeniatus Hallow ell.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1852 181.
This species is characterized by the presence of 15 rows of scales 8 upper labials and longitudinal stripes on the sides frontal about half the width of supraoculars posteriorly  tail very long ventrals 188210 subcaudals 120157.
The young are striped.
Hab.
 Western Texas to California.
Pale brown often wide crossbands two pale lateral stripes 1.
Z. t. ornatus.
Dark brown no crossbands 3 or 4 narrow dark lateral stripes 2.
Z. t. tceniatus.
Zamenis taeniatus ornatus B. and G. Mastkophis ornatus B. and G. I. c 102.
159  Baseanium tmniatum subs ornatum Cope Ball.
U. S. Nat.
IMus. I 40  B. ornatum Cope I. c 629 Zamenis tceniatus part Boul. I. c I 390 Z. ornatus Cope liep.
Nat.
Mus. 813.
Scales usually in 15 rows No.
5362 Academy coll. from Arizona has 17 ventrals 200206 subcaudals 130152.
Length about 1700 mm.
tail 565.
Pale brown above with more or less distinct wide crossbands of purplish brown on the back the whole upper surface is sometimes suffused with the darker color in which case the crossbands are obscure or absent a yellowish longitudinal line on the outer row and the edge of the ventrals and another on the third and fourth rows the upper one is edged with black and sometimes there is a faint dark line through the middle of it belly yellow more or less blotched.
Hab.
Western Texas.
Zamenis tseniatus taeniatus Hallowell.
Leptophis tceniatus Hall. Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1852 181  Masticopliis tceniatus and 31.
Schotti B. and G. I. c 103 160  B. tceniatum and B. Schotti Cope I. c 629 Zamenis tceniatus part Boul. I. c I 390  B. tceniatus Van Den. I. c. 190  Z. schottii and Z. tceniatus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 811 815.
Snout and muzzle rather long and narrow body slender and tail very long scales in 15 rows very rarely 17 upper labials 8 temporals 22 ventrals 188209 subcaudals 120157.
Length about 1300 mm.
tail 370.
Yellowish brown to dark brown the outer four or five rows lighter each having a narrow black line running on the centre and usually another on the edge of the ventrals most of the scales on the rest of the dorsal region have dark centres yellowish beneath without spots except sometimes on the throat top of head dark an indistinct light line from the nostril to the eye a light spot on both preand postoculars labials yellow a little spotted.
I am unable to formulate a valid distinction between 7j.
schotti B. and G. and this species  the stripes appear not to run as far back but they are variable in this respect in Z. t. keniatm and their disappearance on the tail is doubtless a result of the fading out of color or more coirectly the failure to develop it posteriorly which is common in the genus.
No.
5369 Academy coll.
old number 1973 labeled schotti from the Rio Grande appears to be one of Schott's original specimens and almost exactly corresponds to No.
5363 a tieniatus from Utah of about the same date.
But it must be admitted that no great reliance can be placed upon color characters in specimens which have been for so manyears in spirits.
Hab.
 Arizona Utah and southern California.
SALVADORA B. and G. I. c 104 Cope I. c 618 and Rep. Nat.
Mus.. 817 Zamenis part Boul. I. c I 379.
Maxillary teeth smooth increasing posteriorly no interspace rostral widened laterally with projecting edges one loreal two internasals two nasals two or three preoculars  pupil round scales smooth with pits in 17 rows anal divided size medium body slender head distinct.
Hab.
 Southwestern United States  Mexico.
This genus is like Zamenis but has the rostral considerably enlarged Avith free expanded lateral borders.
Salvadora grahami B. and G. I. c 104  Cope I. c 619 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 818  Zamenis jraharni Boul. I c I 395  S. irahami Van Den. I. c 180  Phvmothira 7iexaleiis Cope Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 18tl 300  S. j. hexalepis Stej. No.
Amer.
Fauna No.
7 203.
Head plates normal rostral entering between internasals lower preocular small sometimes a third preocular  postoculars 2 or 3  temporals 1 22 3 upper labials 8 scales in 17 rows ventrals 175206 subcaudals 75108.
Length about 1200 ram.
tail 300.
A yellowish dorsal stripe about three scales wide narrowing toward the tail on each side a bi'own or olive stripe about the same width bordered below Ijy a greenish olive or brown stripe extending to the veutrals the stripes are sometimes indistinct and at others are broken into spots belly yellowish head brown usually unmarked.
Ilab.
 Western Texas to Utah and Arizona Sonora and Lower California.
Several other species of Salvadora are found in Mexico.
PHYLLORHYNCHUS Stej.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1890 151  Cope I. c 617 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 831  Lytorhynchm part Boul. I c I 414.
Max'llary teeth smooth longer behind an interspace rostral lroniinent with pi'ojectiug lateral edges and separating the internasals two to four loreals three preoculars small scales between the eye and the labials two nasals two iuteruasals pupil vertical one pair of chin shields scales smooth or partly keeled without pits in 19 rows anal entire size medium head slightly distinct.
Hab.
 North America and INIexico.
Phyllorhynclius browni Stej.
I. c 152 Cope I. c 618 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 821 Lytorhynchus browni Boul. I. c I 417.
Body slender rostral very large projecting with free edges and completely sejarating the internasals a transversely enlarged shield behind the parietals loreals 3 the upper and lower small oculars 34 several suboculars separating the eye from the labials upper labials 6 temporals 3 one pair of chin shields scales in 19 rows nearly smooth anteriorly keeled behind ventrals 159 subcaudals 31.
Length 325 mm.
tail 42.
Whitish with 15 brown blotches mostly subquadrangular and lighter in the centre belly white a dark lar across the head between the eyes.
Hab.
 Only two specimens known from Tucson Arizona.
Phyllorhynclius decurtatus Cope.
Phimothyra dccurtata Cope Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1868 310  Phyllorhyiichiis decurtatus Stej. Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1890 154 and Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 823  Lytorhynchus decurtatus Boul. I. c I 417.
Much like P. browni but the scales are smooth there is no enlarged shield behind the parietals the tail is shorter the dorsal spots are more numerous and there are two series of irregular lateral spots.
The type specimen in the Academy's collection is from northern Lower California and there is a second in the National Museum from La Paz.
A third which has just reached me from Mr. Herbert Brown collected by him at Yuma Ariz. for the first time estabhshes the species within the United States.
This specimen differs from the type in that the rostial penetrates between the prefrontals as in P. broumi  there is but one subocular and but two postoculars on one side there are four temporals the tail is rather longer and the spots are more numerous being fortyone on the body and six on the tail thirtytwo altogether in the type.
Yeutrals 183 subcaudals 30.
Length 403 mm.
tail 40.
Hab.
 Lower California Yuma Arizona.
CYCLOPHIS Gunther.
Cat.
Col. Snakes Br.
Mus. Gunth. 119 1858 Cope I. c 621  Leptophis B. and G. .
c 106  Contia part Boul. I. c II 255.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal one loreal one preocular two internasals one nasal scales keeled with two pits anal divided size small tail long head distinct color green.
Hab.
 Asia North America.
CyclopMs aestivus L. Coluber cestivus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 387 1766 Leptophis cestivus and majalis B and G. I. c lOG  Cydophis cestivus Cope I. c 621 and Eej.
Nat.
Mus. 784  Contia cestiva Boul. I. c II 258.
Head scales normal loreal rather long occasionally absent oculars 12 of two examples from New Jersey in my collection one has a sulpreocular on each side and the other has three postoculars on one side temporals 12 upper labials 7 the third and fourth in orbit one from Florida has the fourth and fifth in the orbit on one side ventrals 148166 subcaudals 111148 scales in 17 rows the outer smooth.
Length 920 mm.
tail 330.
Uniform bright green above labials and belly yellowish wliite or bright yellow.
Hab.
 New Jersey to Florida west to the Mississippi southwest to New Mexico.
LIOPELTIS Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860.
559  Chlorosoma B. and G. I. c 108  Lio' peltis Cope I. c 620 and Rep. Nat.
Mus.781  Contia part BouL I. c II 255.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal head scales normal a loreal occasionally absent one nasal scales smooth with one pit anal divided size small tail long head distinct.
Hab.
 Eastern Asia North America.
Liopeltis vernalis Harlan.
Coluber vernalis Harl. Jour.
Acad.
Phila. V 1827 p. 361  Chlorosoma vernalis B. and G. I. c 108  L. vernalis Cope I. c 0'20 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 783  Contia vernalis Boiil. I. c. II 258.
Head scales normal loreal nearly square sometimes fused with the nasal one nasal oculars 1 22 temporals 12 upper labials 7 third and fourth in orbit lower labials 8 scales smooth in 15 rows ventrals 120138 subcaudals 6994.
Uniform bright green above labials and belly yellowish green.
Length 500 mm.
tail 150.
Hab.
 Canada and United States east of Rocky Mountains rare in the southeastern States.
CONTIA B. and G. I. c 110  Cope part I. c 599 and Chionactis Cope I. c 604 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 925 9358  Contia part BouL I. c II 255  
Lodia B. and G. Z. c 116.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal one loreal one preocular one nasal sometimes half divided below the nostril two interuasals scales smooth without pits in 1517 rows anal divided size small head not very distinct.
Hab.
 North America Asia.
Key to the American Species.
a.
 13 rows of scales pale brown no crossbars .
1.
C. taijlori.
b.
 15 rows of scales Reddish or greenish brown sometimes crossbands 2.
C. episcopa.
AVhite Avith bands or rings around body 3.
C. occipitale.
Brown with a light band on each side .
.
4.
C. mitis.
'Prof.
Cope removes all the species included here in Contia except G. mitis to CJiionactis Cope on account of their possession of a shallow external groove on the posterior maxillary tooth.
Thi.s is probably the same noted by Dr. Giinther as a distinct elongated pit at the base of the hinder teeth in large specimens of the Mexican Conopsis nasus Biologia Centrali Americana Rept. p. 97.
Sufficient material is not accessible to determine either the constancy or the value of this character and it seems best for the present to retain these snakes in the genus Contia.
Contia taylori Boulenger.
I. c II 265 PI.
XII fig.
3  Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 93G.
Nasal not divided oue loreal.
longer than deep oculars 12 temporals 11 2 upper labials 7 posterior chin shields very small scales in 13 rows ventrals 126137 subcaudals 3746 length 270 mm.
tail 55. 
Pale brown above each scale darkest along the centre upper lip and lower parts white.
Hab.
 Duval county Texas northern Mexico three specimens known.
Contia episcopa Kennicott.
Lamprosoma episcopum Keiin. U.S. Mex.
Bound.
Siirv. p. 22 pi 8 fig.
2 1859.
This species has the scales in 15 rows an undivided nasal an elongated loreal 7 upper labials oculars 12 temporals 12 1 ventrals 143167 subcaudals 3557 tail about onefourth of the length.
Ranges from Texas to Utah Arizona and northern Mexico.
Rosy yellow to ashy no crossbands .
.
.
1.
C e. episcopa.
Orange with black crossbands 2.
C. e. isozona.
Contia episcopa episcopa Kennicott.
I. c 22  C. e. episcopa and C. e. torquata Cope I. c 601  C. ejnscopa and C. torquata BouL I. c II 265 266  Chiouactis episcopa episcopa and C. e. torquata Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 938 939.
Ventrals 143163 subcaudals 3557.
Length about 250 mm.
Yellowish reddish or greenish brown sometimes with a yellow dorsal stripe three scales wide most of the scales tipped with light brown top of head like the body or brown or black belly yellowish or greenish white.
C. e. torquata Cope rests upon degrees of color intensity which are admittedly inconstant in the two specimens known.
Hab.
 Texas and northern Mexico.
Contia episcopa isozona Cope.
Prdc.
Acad.
Phila. 1866 304. and I. c 601  C. isozona Boul. I. c II 266.
Ventrals 158167 subcaudals 5052 orange or red with black crossbands which almost reach the ventrals becoming complete rings on the tail belly whitish snout red rest of head black.
Length about 250 mm.
Hab.
 Texas to Arizona and Utah Sonora.
Contia occipitale nallowell.
Rluiioitomn occipitale Hall. Proc.
Acad.
Phila.
 1854 95 CMonactis occipitalis Cope I. c 605 and Kep Nat.
Mus. 941  Contia occipitale Boul. l.c 11266.
Snout prominent nasal undivided loreal small  oculars 12 temporals 12 upper labials 7 scales in 15 rows tail about onefifth of total length ventrals 147158 subcaudals 3444.
Length about 300 ram.
Color white or pale yellow sometimes pinkish narrow black rings around the body at intervals of about five scales sometimes interrupted on the ventrals rest of belly whitish a Ijlack crescent on the hinder part of parietals with the horns forward.
Hab.
 Arizona.
Contia mitis B. and G. I. c 110  
Loilia tenuis B. and G. I. c 116  C mitis and L. tenuis Cope I. c 601  Contia mitis Boul. I. c II.
267 and YanDeu. I. c 163.
Size small tail very short oculars 11 2 upper labials 7 temporals 12 scales in 15 rows ventrals 147186 subcaudals 3052 length 322 mm.
tail 40.
Reaches a length of 415 mm.
Dark brown with a yellowish stripe on the fourth row of scales and a row of black dots below it  ventrals yellowish edged with black  a black streak on each side of head  chin and throat spotted with black.
Lodia tenuis B. and G.  was based upon one example from Puget Sound Oregon agreeing with G. mills except in having a small additional plate between the prefrontals and the loreal reaching the eye under the preocular.
As no further specimen has come to light in fifty years it seems safe to refer this unique example to the class of anomalies the head plates being usually variable in these small burrowing forms.
Hab.
 Central California to Washington and Oregon.
DIADOPHIS B. andG.
I. c 112  Cope I. c 614 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 743  Coronella part Boul. I. c II 188.
Maxillary teeth smooth subequal one loreal two preociilars two internasals two nasals scales smooth with one pit in 1517 rows anal divided size small head distinct.
Hab.
 North America Mexico.
If due attention be paid to juvenile characters the North Americau species of Diaclophis must be limited to three.
Baird and Girard established two others which with a third of his own making Cope regards as subspecies of D. amabilis.
In these forms the chief differences are in the shape of the frontal and supraocular plates and in the extent to which the dark dorsal area invades the two outer rows of scales.
But a series of the eastern form D. pundatus of all sizes shows that exactly these differences in that species are age characters and in a genus whose included forms are so nearly similar there can be little doubt that they are so in amabilis as well.
Key to the Species 17 rows of scales 7 8 upper labials ventrals 237 or less 1.
D. r eg alls.
15 rows of scales 7 8 upper labials ventrals 210 or less 2.
D. amabilis.
15 rows of scales 87 upper labiols ventrals 160 or less 3 D. 2unctatus.
Diadophis punctatus L. Coluber punctatus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 376  D. punctatus B. and G. I. c 112  D. punctatus and D. nnabihs stictocjenys part Cope I. c 616 617 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 751 750 Coronellu jnmctata Boul. I. c II 206.
Head not very distinct head plates normal in adults the frontal is much narrowed behind and acute oculars 2 l2 temporals 11 upper labials 8 occ.
7 scales in 15 rows ventrals 136160 subcaudals 3662.
Leugth 355 mm.
tail b.
In adults the color is bluish black or brownish above covering the whole of the dorsal scales and extending like a bar upon the end of each ventral the belly is yellow or orange sometimes with a series of transverse dark blotches in the middle of each ventral these are however often absent there is usually a yellow halfcollar on the nape half a scale to a full scale in width the lower half of the upper and the whole of the lower labials is yellow with small spots of black.
In the young the back is bright reddish brown or salmon color which reaches only the upper border of the second row of scales and extends downward as the color deepens the top of the head is dark brown and the nuchal collar is bordered behind by a band of the same dark color the frontal plate is also more angular in front and less tapering behind than in the adult.
Hab.
 North America east of the Mississippi river.
Diadophis amabilis B. and G. I. c 113  D. docilis and D. pulchellus B. and G. I. c 114 115  D. a. amabilis D. a.
'pulchellus D. a docilis and D. a. stictogenys part Cope I. c 616 and Rep. Nah Mus. 747750  Goromlla amabilis Boul. I. c II 2J7  J amabilis Van Den. I. c 164. '''
In this species the frontal is broader behind than in either of the others upper labials 7 occ.
8 temporals 11 2 scales in 15 rowsthe form is more elongate than in pnnetatas the ventrak ranging from 182210 subcaudals 5363.
Length 470 mm.
tail 80.
The coloration is much as in 2unctatns  the spots on the ventrals are small and irregular and the nuchal halfcollar is almost always present.
Ilab.
 Texas to the Pacific coast south to Sonora.
Diadophis regalis B. cand G. I. c 115  D. regalis regalis and Z.
r. arnyi Cope I. c 615 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 744 745  Coronella regalis Boul. I. c II 208 The frontal is narrow behind as m2mnctatus scales in 17 rows upper labials 7 occ.
8 temporals 11 2 ventrals 183237 subcaudals 5G75.
Length 570 mm.
tail 100 being the largest of the genus.
Ashy to brownish black belly yellow or reddish with small black spots the nuchal collar is generally absent.
Hab.
 Illinois to Arizona south to Vera Cruz.
OPHIBOLUS B. and J. I. c 82  Cope I. c 607  Osceola B. and G. I. c 133 and Cope I. c 606 Coronella part Boul. I. c II 188 Osceola and Ophibolus Cope Hep.
Nat.
Mus. 881 902.
 Maxillary teeth smooth slightly increasing posteriorly no interspace one loreal  one prcocular  two internasals  two nasals scales smooth with two pits in 1925 rows anal entire  size large and stout to small and slender head slightly distinct.
Hab.
 North America and Mexico.
Key to the Species.
a.
 Scales in 21 rows dorsal spots brown or red with black borders or rings around body 1.0. doliatus.
 Lampropeltis Filzinger lately exhumed is regarded as a nomen nudum for the reasons given under Entwtiia.
6. Scales in 2123 rows Size large black with centres of scales white or yellow or crossbands of arae color 1.0. getuius.
Size small yellow and black rings black rings more or less divided by red 3.
0. zonatus.
Size medium pale brown dorsal spots much wider than long no head bands ... 4.
0. rhombomaculatus.
c.  Scales in 25 rows size medium grayish brown head bands distinct o.
0. calligaster.
Ophibolus doliatus L. Coluber doliatus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 379 176G.
Size medium to small head scales normal loreal small and occasionally absent in one form oculars 12 temporals 2 l2 3 frontal narrow behind in the young broader in adults upper labials 7 scales in 21 I'ows occasionally varying from 1723 anterior chin shields much the longest ventrals 165215 subcaudals 3155 tail from onefifth to oneseventh of the length.
This species covers the United States from the Atlantic coast to the central plains and extends southwest into INIexico and varies to an extreme degree with the usual result in classification.
Prof.
Cope's scheme of the directive color variations of 0. doliatus guided by  bathmisra published in completed form in The American Naturalist 1893 p. 1066 and finally in The Primary Factors of Organic Evolution p. 29 1896 is a remarkable example of the employment of that great gift the scientific imagination in a wrong field for if that work be compared with a large series of doliatus it becomes evident that the subspecies added by Cope to complete the chain are no more than selected cases the numberless promiscuous variations being wholly ignored.
The course of change from a brown spotted to a redringed snake has not been as orderly nor as easily marked off as is there assumed and iu subdividing the species natural limitations are not readily found.
Key to the Subspecies.
a.
 An oblique streak behind the eye  Dorsal spots reaching to about fifth row an angular mark on head ventrals 190214 .
.
1.0. d. triangulus.
Dorsal spots reaching to third or first row head bands variable ventrals 175203 ... 2.
0. d. clericus.
b.
 No oblique streak behind eye i.
 Dorsal spots reaching outer row or ventrals no distinct headbands S. 0. d. doliatus.
b  Black borders of dorsal spots forming rings around body no alternating spots No black blotch on ventrals opposite dorsal spots top of head mostly red .
.
.
.
4.
0. d. coccineus.
A black blotch on ventrals opposite dorsal spots top of head mostly black .
.
.
5.
0. d. gentiUs.
OpMbolus doliatus triangulus Daudin.
Coluber triajKjulus Daud. Kept. VI 322 1803 OiMholus eximius B. and G. I. c 87 0. d. triangulus Cope I. c 610 Coronella trianriulum part Boul. I. c II 200  Osceola dolinta triangula Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 885.
Largest of the subspecies temporals 22 scales in 21 rows ventrals 190214 subcaudals '4355 length about 1100 mm.
Body color gray the dorsal spots are about thirteen scales wide and rarely extend below the fifth row they are chocolate brown with black borders in adults and quite red in the young and number 4046 on the body and 1013 on the tail a second smaller alternating series on the sides which does not reach the ventrals and a third series of irregular black blotches on the ends of the ventrals the belly is whitish blotched with black.
The first dorsal spot is commonly extended forward and ends in a conspicuous angle on the frontal the arms of which enclose a triangular light patch there is a black band across the prefrontals often with a light centre and a narrow dark oblique streak behind the eye bordered above by a light one.
Hab.
 Massachusetts to North Carolina west to Wisconsin.
Ophibolus doliatus clericus B. and G. Ophibolus clericus B and G. I. c 88  0. d. collaris 0. d. clericus Cope I. c 609 610 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 886 888  0. d. temporalis Cope Am.
Nat. 1893 1068 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 889  Coronella triangulum part Bonl. Z. c II 200.
Shorter than 0. d. triangulus ventrals 175203 subcaudals 3649 length 950 mm.
The dorsal spots are less numerous from 2136 on the body and 610 on the tail they are wider and end from the third to the first row of scales the alternating spots are correspondingly lower and invade the ventials.
The head markings are sometimes much as in triangulus but less distinct there is usually an oval light patch surrounded by a black ring in place of the triangular mark this is sometimes more or less extended transversely becoming a halfcollar this is the form called vollurk by Cope often the anterior ring is represented ly a black bar on the nape and sometimes the ring is altogether absent and there is a light spot on each supraocular and another on the parietals the rest of the head markings being more or less obsolete this is teinporalls Cope but the intermediate stages are so many that it is quite arbitrary to regard these patterns as distinctive.
The spots range in color from brown to red.
The oblique streak behind the eye is present.
0. d. clericus is a transitional form of great variability and it is by no means always easy to distinguish it from 0. d. inamjulus on the one side and 0 d. doliatns on the other but I find that on the whole compared with triangidiis it lias a greater width and lessened number of dorsal spots and a want of uefiuition in the head markings associated with fewer ventrals and subcaudals it may be distinguished from 0. d. doUatus by the fact that the latter lacks the oblique streak behind the eye and rarely shows any head markings beyond a dark bar or blotch across the parietals.
Hab.
 This subspecies seems to occupy the southern portion of the range of 0. d. triangalus.
I have seen no examples from further north than Trenton N. J. and central Illinois.
OpMbolus doliatus doliatus L. I. c 379  0. d. doliatus 0. d. parallelus and 0. d. syspilus part Cope .
c 609 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 889893  Coronella gentilis part Boul. I. c II 201.
Form short and stout in adults temporals '22 3 ventrals 200210 subcaudals 4455 length about 670 mm.
tail 100.
Grouud color grayish white or yellowish dorsal spots brownish red or red Avith black borders they are broad and reach to the first row of scales often extending well on to the ventrals the lateral spots are small and largely upon the ventrals wholly so when the dorsals are Avidest.
The belly is whitish or yellow with black blotches the lower borders of the dorsal spots sometimes form nearly parallel black bands on the ventrals.
The extreme of this disposition is parallelm Cope.
The top of the head is sometimes almost entirely black but more usually this is reduced to a bar across the parietals the rest of the head being red or yellow.
The postorbital stripe of the previous forms is absent.
I cannot find characters which will bear examination in syipilus ope.
No.
3609 Academy coll. from Hennessey Oklahoma collected and labeled sijqnlm by Cope himself has more black upon the head than most 0. d. doliatus while underneath anteriorly it has the paired ringi of 0. d. cocdneus on the rest of the belly having parallel lines formed by the lower borders of the dorsal spots quite as close together as those attributed by him to jmrallelus.
Hab.Maryland to Florida west to Illinois Oklahoma and Texas.
Ophibolus doliatus coccineus Schlegel.
Coronella coccinea Sch. Ess.
Phys.
Serp. II fiT PI.

1837 OjMbolus doliatus and Osceola elapsoidea B. and G. I. c 89 133  Osceola elapsoidea and 0. d. coccineus Cope I. c 606 609 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 900 896 Coronella gentilis part and G. doliata part Boul. I. c II 201 205.
Body rather more slender temporals 12 ventrals 175204 subcaudals 3154 length 535 mm.
tail 70.
Body color scarlet comjletely encircled by pairs of black rings with interspaces white in the young yellow in adults no lateral spots belly paler than the back top of head red with the first black rings crossing the parietals.
The pattern is formed by the obliteration of the lateral portion of the black borders of dorsal spots and the extension of their transverse portion entirely around the body.
The lateral spots have disappeared.
This subspecies seems to be adopting burrowing habits in portions of its range and as is frequent in such cases the head plates and scales are becoming variable specimens being found without a loreal and with the scales reduced to nineteen rows.
This extreme reduction is Otceola elapsoidea B. and G. and is not common but intermediate stages are frequent out of some thirty specimens colored as in coccineus I have met but two without a loreal and with 19 rows.
The case is peculiar.
If constant the distinction would be a generic one  on the other hand the importance of the character involved would seem to lift it out of the ordinary category of intergradation for we appear to have a subspecies being transformed into a genus under our eyes.
On the whole it may accord best with a sound method to take no note of this form at its present stage.
Hab.
 North Carolina to Florida and west to the Mississippi river.
Specimens without a loreal arc rarely found outside of Florida.
Ophibolus doliatus gentilis 15and G. Ophiboliis gentilis B. and G. I. c 90  0. d. annnlatus 0. d. syspibis part 0. a. gentili. anil O. multistratus Cope I. c 609 Gil Coronella geniiiis part and G. microhoUs part Boul. I. e. 11201 203  LampropcUis innltistrtus and L. annulaius Stej. Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1891 502 503  Osceola doliata gentilis unulatris syspiliis part and Ophibolus multistratus Cope liep.
Nat.
Mus. 894 895 909.
Body rather short iiud stout temporals 22 8 scales in 21 rows occasionally 23 ventrals 184200 subcaudals 4250 length about 700 mm.
The black rings usually extend around the body as in 0. d. coccineus and the colors are very similar but the spaces between adjacent pairs of rings on the belly opposite the red dorsal tracts are more or less filled up by black  the whole top of the head is usually black except the end of the snout which is red.
Sometimes the scales in the yellow rings are marked with black and often the black of the rings extends slong the dorsal line forming a dusky band on the red spaces when the black suffusion is wanting we have anmdatm Kenn. but it exists in all degrees.
A small specimen from Fort Harker Kaus.
 in the Cope collection referred by him to sypilm is .simply an immature gentilis.
0. multistratus Kenn.
was founded on an individual from Nebraska having 8 upper labials 2.3 rows of scales three temporals in the second row dorsal spots with borders uniting on the flanks and no rings nor spots on the belly.
Mr. Stejneger reports a second specimen  with but seven labials.
Twentythree rows of scales temporals 23 with a greater or less number of dorsal spots are not without precedent in 0. doliatus  indeed three out of five 0. d. gentilis which I have examined have three temporals in the second row.
No.
3613 Academy coll. from western Louisiana is in company with a gentilis lacking the dorsal suffusion of black and is exactly like it in all other respects except that the belly is immaculate and the dorsal spots close on the outer row of scales cor.
responding very closely to Kennicott's description of multiMratus with the scutellation of gentilis.
I see no reason therefore why the first should not be included within the range of this variable form the same may be said of annulatus Kenn. the diflfereuces of which are trivial.
 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1888 p. 385.
2 1 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1891 p. 502.
The Mexican forms of Ophlbolns with rings are closely related to this section.
Mr. Boulenger has indeed united all of them with annidatus under the name of 0. micropholis Cope and Dr. Gunther has done the same using the name annulatus.
The one specimen of micropholis from Nicaragua which I have seen is certainly very like gentilis and if the southern forms are to be united as stated above gentilis will probably have to be added and that name will have priority.
Hab.
 As here restricted gentilis ranges from Nebraska to western Louisiana Texas and northern Mexico.
Ophibolus getulus IColuber getulus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 382 1766.
Size large and stout head not very distinct  scales in 2123 rows occ.
25 oculars 12 upper labials 7 temporals 22 3 anterior chin shields longest tail rather more than oneseventh of the length color black or brownish black white or yellow markings on separate scales which frequently collect into lines across the back.
Hab. The whole United States south of latitude 40.
Key to the Subspecies.
a.
 Scales in 21 or 23 rows Scales with yellow centres often forming crossbands l. 0. g. sayi.
Black with white or yellow crossbands bifurcating on sides 2.
0. g. getulus.
h.  Scales in 23 or 25 rows Black with white rings which widen on the sides 3.
0. g. boylii.
Black with many rings broken short white stripes 4.
0. g. calijornice Ophibolus getulus sayi Holbrook.
Coronella saii Holb. No.
Am.
Herp. Ill 99 PI.
XXII 1842 Opubolus splendidus and 0. sayi B. and G. 83 84  0. g. sayi and 0. g. splcndidus Cope I. c il2 613 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 911 and 918  Coronella getula part Boul. I. c II 197.
Dorsal rows of scales 2123 rarely 25 ventrals 200224 subcaudals 4060 length about 1500 mm.
This form is exceedingly variable in pattern but after examination of many specimens from all parts of its range both living  Bio.
Cent.
Amer.
Kept. p. 109 PI.
23. and alcoholic I atn not able to subdivide it.
Typical sail is black and has each scale with a white or yellow ccutre the belly is yellow with black blotches and the head is black with small yellow spots.
In many cases the body spots collect into narrow transverse bands leaving considerable spaces black with more or less traces of the yellow spots sometimes the lower seven or eight rows of scales are spotted and above them on the dorsal area the spots collect into narrow bands connecting the spotted sides and leaving a series of black unspotted tracts on the back three or four scales long and seven or eight wide.
This is splendidus B. and G. At the present time the collection of the Zoological Society contains examples of both of these and more or less intermediate stages collected at the same time at Pecos Tex.
On the other hand No.
4451 Academy coll.
is a very fair example of splendidus collected at Reelfoot Lake Tenn. in 1895 by Mr. Samuel N. Khoads and No.
3585 from southern Illinois clearly indicates the same pattern which is therefore not associated with a restricted geographical area.
Hab.
 Southern Illinois to Louisiana and through the southern portion of the plains to western Texas.
Ophibolus getulus getulus IColuber getulus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 382 1766 Ophibolus getulux B. and G. I. c 85  0. g. getulus ami 0. g. niger Cope I. c 613  Coronella getula part Boul. I. c II 197  0. g. getulus Cope Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 914.
Size larger than 0. g. sayi  ventrals 210224 subcaudals 4053 reaches a length of 1800 mm.
Black crossed by transverse bands of white or pale yellow one and a half or two scales wide at intervals of from five to ten scales generally bifurcating on the flanks and joining the anterior and posterior ones thus forming a chainlike pattern enclosing a series of black dorsal blotches.
An occasional Florida specimen has some scales in the black areas with light centres.
Two specimens one from Florida and one from Alabama now in the Zoological Gardens have narrow white bands crossing the back in one at intervals of seven and in the other of ten scales without bifurcating.
The belly is white or yellow with black blotches top of head black nearly all the plates marked with Avhite or yellow labials yellow heavily margined with black.
0. g. niger does not appear to me to be more than a melanistic condition approaches to which occur in all subspecies of 0. getulus.
Hab.
 Southern New Jersey to Florida and Louisiana chiefly in the Atlantic States.
Ophibolus getulus boylii B. and G. Ophiholus Boylii B. and G. I. c 82  0.
.
hoilii Cope I. c 613 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 919  Coronella getula part Boul. I. c II 197  Lampropeltis boylii Yan Den. I. c 169.
Smaller than 0. g. sayl scales in 23 rows occ.
25 ventrals 218255 subcaudals 4660.
The largest measurement given by Mr. Van Denburg is 1089 mm.
tail 135.
The body is black or brownish with rings of white or yellow about two scales wide on the back which widen on the sides until they are wider than the black interspaces sometimes the direction of the rings is oblique so that on the belly and even on the back the ends alternate instead of meeting the top of the head is black with small light spots and the snout is white or yellow.
One of two living specimens lately received from Yuma Ariz. by courtesy of Mr. Herbert Brown has the light bands only indicated by white spots on a few lateral scales across the back there being no more than a brown shade on the deep black of the body color the top of the head is wholly black the lower labials white heavily margined with black.
Hab.
 Nevada Arizona and California.
Ophibolus getulus californise Blainville.
Coluber  Ophis californicB Blain. Nouv.
Ann.
du Mus. 1835 293  B. and G. I. c 15i  0.
j. californicB Cope .
r. 614 and Rep. Nat.
Mus  922  Coronella getula part Boul. I. c II 197  Lampropeltis californicB Van Den. I. c 172.
The relations of this snake to 0. g. boylii are uncertain and it is quite possible that the specimens known are but abnormal color variations of that species there are usually 23 rows of scales oculars 12 3 temporals 23 ventrals 226236 subcaudals 5058.
The body is black or browni.sh with little constancy in the mai'kings at times more or less of the white rings of boylii are present but broken up and interspersed with short longitudinal white stripes and according to Mr. Van Denburg there is a white or yellow stripe or series of spots on the back the head is colored as in boylii and the belly is yellow or white with or without black blotches.
Mr. Van Denburg's largest specimen measured 391 mm.
tail 41.
Hab.
 Southern California and Lower California.
Ophibolus zonatus Blainville.
Coluber Zacholus zonatus Blain. I. c 293 Ophibolus jyyrrJiomelas Cope I. c 610 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 907  Coronella zonata BouL I. c II 203  Lamjropcltis zonatus Van Den. I. c 167.
Size rather smaller than boylll body slender scutellation generally as in that form oculars 1 22 upper labials 7 6 temporals 2 l3 2 scales in 2123 rows ventrals 199224 subcaudals 4566.
Length about 900 mm.
tail onesixth.
The body is encircled by narrow white or yellow rings between Avhich are black ones which are more or less replaced or divided by red all the rings are narrow and the red is more pronounced anteriorly being often altogether absent on the hinder part of the body head yellow with a black baud across the middle and another on the nape.
Mr. Boulenger as it appears to me rightly has referred this species to zonatus of Blainville.
Hab.
 Arizona and southern California.
Ophibolus rhombomaculatus Holbrook.
Coronella rhombomaculata Holb. I. c III 103 PI.
23 0. rJiomhomaculatus B. and G. I. c 80  Cope I. c. 610 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 903  Coronella calligaster part Bonl I. c II 198  Lampropeltis rhombomaculatus Stej. Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1891 503.
Size moderate body cylindrical and rigid oculars 12 temporals 23 upper labials 7 anterior chin shields longest scales in 2321 rows ventrals 200212 subcaudals 4451.
Length 790 mm.
tail 110.
Body color pale brown with a dorsal series of small dark brown blotches with indistinct black borders these are about eight or nine scales wide and not more than two long and may number as many as fifty on the body the interspaces are wider than the spots a series of irregular small blotches on the side often alternating with the dorsals and reaching the ventrals the lower end sometimes breaking ofi and forming a detached spot on the end of the ventrals belly yellowish white clouded with pale brown no head bands nor spots on the nape a narrow oblique streak behind the eye labials whitish slightly margined with dark brown.
Hab.
 From the District of Columlia to South Carohna and west to the Alleghenies.
ISot common.
Ophibolus calligaster Harlan.
Coluber calligaster Harl. .Tour.
Acad.
Phila. 1827 359  0. calligaster Cope I. c 610 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. i05  Coronella calligaster part Boul. I. c II 198.
Larger than rhombomaculatus  oculars 12 temporals 23 upper labials 7 anterior chin shields longest scales in 25 rows veutrals 198210 subcaudals 4165.
Length 1180 mm.
tail 165.
Body color pale grayish brown a dorsal series of subquadrate blotches dark brown with narrow black borders two to three scales long eight to ten wide somewhat emarginate before and behind the interspaces are about equal to the sjjots a smaller alternating series on the sides which often form irregular vertical bars and a third on the outer row of scales and ends of the ventials belly yellowish with or without square black blotches on the centre.
The head markings are sometimes verj' elaborate in a beautiful specimen formerly in the collection of the Zoological Society from Minnesota the top of the head was yellowish with a brown band across the prefrontals an arrowheaded mark brown with a black border the base on the frontal and apex just behind the parietals a brown spot on the hinder end of the supraoculars and a faint dark oblique streak behind the eye.
Labials yellow.
An elongated brown blotch with black border on each side running back from the parietals ta the neck.
The markings are however not always as distinct a second living specimen from Missouri has the whole color darker the lateral spots quite obscure no dark blotches on the ventrals and the head markings indistinct.
The general aspect of this snake is very like rhomhomaculatm but it has 25 rows of scales the ground color is grayish brown  the dorsal spots are less narrow and the head bands almost always distinguish it at a glance.
Hab.
 Indiana to Minnesota and southwest to Kansas and northern Texas.
Has been once reported from central Ohio.
STILOSOMA A. E. Brown.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1890.
199  Cope I. c 595 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 924  Boul. I. c II 325.
Maxillary teeth small smooth subequal body very slender and cylindrical head not distinct tail short internasals frequently fused with pi'efroutals one uasal no loreal preocular usually distinct prefrontals and parietals in contact with labials scales smooth without pits anal entire.
Stilosoma extenuatum A. E. Brown.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1890 199  Cope I. c 595 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 924 Boul. I. c II 325 Stejneger fide Lcenuberg Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1894 323.
Maxillary teeth 1011 about equal in size mandibular teeth 12.
Body very slender its diameter contained about one hundred times in its length snout rather prominent head scales variable of nine specimens which I have examined six have the internasals fused with the prefi'ontals one has a distinct internasal on one side two have the preocular fused with the frontal in all the loreal is absent and the prefrontals and parietals aie in contact with the labials upper labials 6 third and fourth in orbit fifth largest lower labials 5 postoculars 2 temporals 11 2 or 3 pairs of chin shields scales smooth in 19 rows ventrals 223260 subcaudals 3340.
Length 575 mm.
tail 50.
Body color silvery gray with 6070 irregular darkbrown dorsal spots with blackish border on the body and about twelve on the tail on the dorsal line the interspaces are mottled with pale red belly blotched with black which extends on the sides and often breaks into lateral spots on the sides the scales are finely punctulated with black a dark patch on the parietals with a smaller one on each side of the neck a dark postocular streak  forepart of head chin and throat maculated with black.
Hab  Known only from Marion and Orange counties Florida.
CARPHOPHIS Genais.
Diet.
d'Hist.
Nat. Ill 191 1849  C'eluta B. and G. I. c 129 CnrphopJnops Cope I. c  596 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 734  CarphopMs Boul I. c II 321.
Maxillary teeth smooth subequal a loreal internasals one two or absent one nasal no preocular scales smooth without pits in 13 rows anal divided size very small head flat and not distinct.
Hab.
 North America.
CarphoMs amBaas Siy.
Coluber amcemis Say Joiir.
Acad.
Phila. IV 237 1825  CeJuta amoina B. and G. I. c 129  Cehita helcnce Kenu. Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1859.
100  Carphophiops amcenus and C. vermis Cope I. c 596 597  CarphopMs amcenus Boul. I. c II 324.
Head small and flat internasals often absent no preocular 6 the loreal entering the orbit postocular 1 temporals 11 2 13 rows of scales ventrals 120134 subcaudals 2136.
Length 310 mm.
tail onesixth.
Chestnut brown above dark brown in adults salmon color beneath.
AVestern specimens usually have but one temporal in the second row and vary a trifle in the extension of the belly color on the sides but as the species is a degraded and variable one it does not seem necessary to regard them as distinct.
Hab.
 NeAV England to Kansas and southward.
FAEANCIA Gray.
Zool.
Misc. 68 1842  B. and G. I. c 123  Cope I. c G04 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 740 Boul. I. c.  II 290.
Maxillary teeth smooth subequal one loreal one internasal one nasal half divided no preocular scales smooth without pits in 19 rows anal divided size moderately large body cylindrical and rigid head not very distinct.
Hab.
 North America.
Farancia abacura Holbrook.
Coluher abacurus Holb. No.
Am.
Ilerp. I 119 PI.
23 183G  Farancia abacura B. and G. I. c 123  Cope I. c 604 and Kep.
NMMus. 741  Boul. I. c II 291.
Head small and hardly distinct from the body one internasal  one nasal half divided no preocular the loreal and prefrontal entering the orbit postorbitals 2 temporals 12 upper labials 7 19 rows of scales ventrals 168206 subcaudals 3449.
Ordinary specimens are about 1000 mm.
long but it reaches 1400 tail onesixth to oneseventh.
Bluish black above with vertical red spots on the sides  belly red in life.
Hab.
 North Carolina to Louisiana possibly in Virginia.
ABASTOR Gray.
Cat.
Snakes Br.
Mus. 78  B. and G. I. c 125  Cope .
c 603  Boul. I. c II 289.
Maxillary teelh smooth subequal oue loreal two internasals one nasal half divided below the nostril no preocular scales smooth without pits in 19 rows anal divided size moderate head not distinct body cylindrical and rigid.
Hab.
 North America.
1901.
'ATUKAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADKLI'IIIA.
83 Abastor erythrogrammus lauIin.
C'olabcr critiroframjinis Ihnu. Hist.
des.
Rept. 93 PI.
83 1303  Abastor erythroframrnus B. and G. l. c 125 Cope I. c 603 and Rep. Nat.
Mns. 738 BouL I. c II 290.
Head scarcely larger than the body two small mternasals no preocular the loreal and prefrontal entering orbit postoculars 2 temporals 12 upper labials 7 ventrals 157185 subcaudals 3755.
Length 980 mm.
tail 130.
Bluish black above with three longitudinal red stripes belly salmon color or reddish with a series of bluish black spots on the ends of the ventrals head dark the plates sometimes with yellow margins labials yellow each with a dark spot.
Hab.
 Xorth Carolina to the Gulf coast found once in Virginia by Prof.
Cope.
VIRGINIA' B.andG.
I. c 127  Cope I. c 599 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1006  Boul. I. c IF 288.
Maxillary teeth smooth subequal a loreal two iuternasals two nasals no preocular scales smooth without pits in 1517 rows anal divided size small head distinct.
Hab.
 North America.
Scales in 15 rows 2 preoculars 1.
V. valerice.
Scales in 17 rows 13 preoculars 2.
V. elegans.
Virginia valeriae B. and G. I c 127  Cope I. c 599 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1000  Boul. I. c II 289.
Head scales normal  oculars 22 temporals 12 upper labials 6 scales wide in 15 rows ventrals 115127 subcaudals 2537.
Length 280 mm.
tail 40.
Yellowish or grayish brown usually with small black dots forming longitudinal lines belly dull yellow.
Hab.
 Maryland west to the Mississippi apparently not in Texas.
Virginia elegans Kcnnicott.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1859 p. 99  Cope I. c 599 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1007  Boul. l. c II 289.
Exactly like V. valerke but the scales are narrower and in 17 rows and the postoculars vary from one to three.
'''Prof.
Cope places Virginut among the genera in which the dorsal hypapophyses are continiied to the tail.
This is certainly not the case iu one sp'cimen of Velegans which I have examined for this character.
A specimen in my collection from Bay St. Louis Miss. 186 mm.
long tail 27 has seven upper labial.s on one side veutrals 117 subcaudals 29.
Hab.
 Southern Illinois to Texas.
FICIMIA Gray.
Cat.
Snakes 80 1849 Gyalopium Cope L c 603 and Rep. Xat.
Mus. 947  Ficimia BouL I. c II 270.
Maxillary teeth smooth equal rostral enters between internasals and prefrontals its upper border projecting two internasals one nasal half divided its anterior portion usually fused with the first labial no loieal one preocular scales smooth with pits in 17 rows anal divided size moderate head not very distinct.
Hab.
 Southwestern United States and INIexico.
Ticimia cana Cope.
Gyalopium canum Cope Proc.
Acad.
Pliilu. 1860 p. 243 I. c 603 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 917  F.
canaBoxA. I. c II 272.
Rostral pointed behind not iu contact with the frontal internasals small nasal fused with the first labial with a groove downward and backward from the nostril no loreal prefrontals reaching labials oculars 12 temporals 12 upper labials 7 scales in 17 rows ventrals 130131 subcaudals 28.
Length about 205 mm.
tail 28.
Eeddish or yellowish with brown darkedged crossbands about thirty in number more or less broken into spots on the sides belly yellowish white a brown band across the head in front of the orbits beginning on the labials and another across the parietals.
Hab.
 Western Texas to Arizona.
CHILOMENISCUS Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 339  I. c 593 and Rep. Xat.
Ius. 948  BouL I. c II 272.
Maxillary teeth smooth subequal the posterior sometimes a little enlarged rostral prominent and separating llie internasals no loreal one nasal fused with the iuternasal one preocular scales smooth with pits in 13 rows anal divided size small head not distinct.
Hab.
 Nevada to Sonora Lower California.
Proocular touchiug uasal  black ci'ossbauds on back 1.
C. ephipicus.
Preocular not touchiug uasal black rings around body 2.
C. cincui.
Chilomeniscus ephippicus Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1875 85  I. c 594  Rep. Nat.
Mns. 951  BouL I. c II 273.
Head small with jiromhieut suout scales in 18 rows rostral just reaches the prefrontals nasal elongated and touchiug the preocular oculars 12 temporals 11 upper labials 7 ventrals 109113 subcaudals 2228.
Length 235' mm.
tail 30.
Yellow or red with a series of black crossbands the ends of which are rounded on the tail they nearly form rings the interspaces are quite as wide as the bauds belly white top of head black snout red.
Hab.
 Nevada and Arizona probably southern California.
Chilomeniscus cincWs Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 18G1 303  C stramineus cinctns Cope I. c 59t 0. stramineus part Boul. I.e. 11 273 C. cinctus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 952.
Very similar to G. ephippicas but the nasal is separated from the preocular by the prefrontals which reach the labials.
Color reddish white body completely encircled by black rings which are narrower on the belly.
But three specimens are known aud the full value of tne characters are in doubt.
Hab.
 Lower California and southern Arizona.
CEMOPHORA Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 244 I. c 602 aad Rep. Nat.
Mus. 938  Boul. I. c II 213  Rhinostoma B. and G. I. c 118.
Maxillary teeth smooth longer behind no interspace a loreal one or two preoculars one nasal sometimes divided rostral slightly projecting scales smooth with pits in 19 rows anal entire size moderate head not distinct.
Hab.
 North America.
Cemophora coccinea Blumenbach.
Coluber coccineus Blum. Voigt's Ma.
of Phys. 1788 11 PI.
1  IIMnostoma coccinea B. aud G. I. c 118 Cemophora coeci7iea Cope 1. c 603 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 938  Boul. I. c II 214.
Body slender head not distinct snout projecting eye small one nasal half divided or double loreal small oculars 1 22 1 temporal.s 1 22 upper labials 6 or 7 scales in 1
rows veutrals 156188 subcaudals 3545.
Length 560 mm.
tail 80.
Back scarlet crossed by pairs of black bands each pair enclosing a whitish or yellow one about three scales wide most scales in the yellow band are dotted with black belly yellowish unmarked top of head red or yellow with a black bar between the orbits.
Hab.
 South Carolina md Florida west to the Mississippi.
RHINOCHILUS B. and O.
.
c 120  Cope l. c 605 and Rep. Nat.
Mas. 930  Boul. I. c II 212.
Maxillary teeth smooth increasing posteriorly no interspace one loreal  one or two preoculars two interuasals two nasals rostral somewhat projecting scales smooth with pits in 1723 rows anal entire subcaudals usually entire size medium head slightly distinct.
Hab.
 North and South America.
Ehinochilus lecontii B. and G. I. c 120  Cope I. c 606 and Rep. Nat.
Mas. 931  Boul. I. c II 212 Van Den. I. c 174.
Body moderately stout head scales normal one large preocular occasionally with a small one below two postoculars temporals 23 one in my collection has a small additional temporal in the first row on one side upper labials 8 scales in 23 rows ventrals 189212 subcaudals 4055 not divided.
The largest I have seen measured 965 mm.
tail 135.
There is a series of blotches on the back alternating black and red or orange  the red ones nearly quadrate the black ones transversely wider on the sides below the blotches some scales are marked with black or yellow belly white or yellow with black blotches on the ends of some ventrals.
A living specimen from Pecos Tex. has twentyseven brilliant scarlet blotches on the body and twelve on the tail below the scarlet llotches each scale is yellow with a black centre while on the corresponding portion of the black areas which extend to the fourth row each scale has a yellow centre many of the scales in the outer rows are tinged with red.
The snout in front of the frontal plate is red behind that black each scale marked with yellow Laiials 3'ellow all the upper ones posterior to the third heavily margined with black.
A second specimen is very similar in color but the blak on the ends of the veutrals often runs up on the scales to about the fourth row.
According to Mr. Van Denburg the spots on the back which ordinarily are red are at times white but I have never myself seen such a specimen.
Hab.
 Southwestern Kansas and western Texas to California.
HYPSIGLENA Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Pliila. 18G0 24G  I. c 617 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 953 Boul. I. c II 208 Posteiior maxillary teeth strongly enlarged smooth diacrauterian one loreal two iuternasals two nasals vertical elliptical pupil scales smooth with pits in 1921 rows anal divided size medium to small  head distinct.
Hab.
 N'orth and Central America.
Hypsiglena ochrorhynclia Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Pliila.
 1860 p. 246  I. c 617 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 953  Boul. I. c II 209  II.
chlorop7ieu II.
ochrorhyncha and E. texana Stej. No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 205.
Size small body round head distinct head plates normal 2 nasals 1 loreal 1 large preocular with usually a small one below it postoculars 2 labials 8 temporals 12 scales in 21 rows ventrals 168187 subcaudals 4055.
Length 320 mm.
tail 60.
Gray or yellowish with a dorsal series of darkbrown blotches and two alternating series on each side a dark stripe through each eye running back to the nape and a median one between them upper surface of head and labials faintly dotted with brown belly white.
The convexity of the head attributed to H. texana Stejn.
appears to me abnormal and the difference in the lateral head stripe is trivial.
Hab.
 Texas to southei'n California northern Mexico.
RHADINEA Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1863 100 and Dromicus I. c 618 Liophis part and Rhadinea Boul. I. c. II 127 and 160  Rhadinca Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 754.
Posterior maxillary teeth slightly lengthened smooth sometimes a slight interspace  one loreal one preocular two internasals two nasals scales smooth without pits in 1521 rows anal divided size very small  head distinct.
Hab.
 North and South America.
Rhadinea flavilata Cope.
Dromkns jhivilatus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1871 p. 322 and I. c 618  Liophis flnvilatns Boul. I. c II 143  RJiadinea flavilata Cope Traus.
Am.
Phil.
Soc. XVIII 203 1895 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 759.
Head slightly distinct maxillary teeth 1213 the last two enlarged and separated from the others by a slight interval  mandibular teeth 17 subequal head plates normal loreal obliquely quadrangular nasal indistinctly divided above and below the nostril one large preocular two postoculars the lower one small temporals 12 upper labials 7 lower labials 8 posterior chin shields longest and separated behind scales in 17 rows smooth without pits ventrals 126129 subcaudals 6677.
Length 270 mm.
tail 77.
Reddish brown above somewhat lustrous in life each scale finely dotted with dax'k brown belly light yellow invading the edges of the two outer rows of scales top of head a little darker than the back and indistinctly vermiculated with light brown a faint dark band from the rostral to the temporals slightly bordered above with yellow and below with black labials colored like the ventrals the upper ones slightly spotted with dark brown.
The foregoing description is taken from two living specimens one from Florida and one from Bay St. Louis Miss.
As none of the three examples of this rare snake Avhich I have examined possess scale pits it cannot be placed in Liophis as is done by Boulenger but falls into the section of Rhadinea with slightly diacranteriau dentition.
Hab.
 North Carolina to Florida and Mississippi.
HETERODON Latieillc.
Hist des Kept. IV. 33 1800 B. and G. I. c 51  I. c Cope 153 and Rep. Nat.
3Ius. 7G0 Boul. I. c II. 153.
Posterior maxillary teeth much enlarged smooth an interspace body stout head long and shghtly distinct snout short rostral strongly projecting and recurved  a small plate behind the rostral  sometimes a number of small scales separating internasals and prefrontals eye surrounded by a circle of scales 1 loreal 2 nasals.
occasionally a small postnasal below scales keeled with two pits in 2325 rows anal divided.
Hab.
 Norch America.
The sand snakes hognosed snakes or blowing vipers as they are variously called are able to expand and flatten the anterior portion of the body when alarmed and thereby to assume a threatening aspect as in the cobras but they are absolutely harmless.
Key to the Species.
a.
 Rostral narrower than space between eyes No scales between prefrontals size larger 1.
H. platyrhlnns.
Prefrontals separated by scales size smaller 2.
B. simus.
b.
 Rostral as broad as space between eyes Prefrontals and interuasals separated by scales 3.
H. nasicus.
Heterodon platyrhinus Latreillo.
I. c. 32  R. platirhinos IT.
cognatus H. nujer and .
atmodes B. and G. I. c 5157  .
plnty'runus Cope I. c 643 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 761 BouL I. c II 151.
Largest of the genus maxillary teeth 1112 the last two much enlarged and separated by a wide interval 1 sometimes 2 small azygous plates behind the rostral separating internasals usually without small plates between the prefrontals frontal a little longer than broad 911 scales in the orbital ring in addition to the supraoculars upper labials 8 9 temporals 4 35 1 jtair of chin shields scales usually in 25 rows occ.
23 ventrals 120150 subcaudals 3760.
Length 810 mm.
tail 153.
Color variable sometimes entirely black above usually brown reddish brown or yellow with a dorsal series of dark brown or black spots separated by narrow interspaces one and a half or two scales wide  a lateral alternating series of small dark blotches and sometimes ti'aces of a third belly greenish white yellowish or reddish often clouded with dusky two dark blotches on the nape a band across the prefrontals and an oblique streak behind the eye.
Hab.
 New Jersey west to the Missouri river and south to Florida and Texas.
Heterodon simus IColuber simus L. S3'st.
Xat. Ed.
XII 375  II.
simus 1.
and G. I. c 59  Cope I. c 313 and Rep. Xat.
Mus. 770 Boul. I. c II 156.
Smaller than a7tiio.s snout oioderate maxillary teeth 1011 8 to 9 scales in addition to the azygous plate separating the internasals and prefrontals frequently a small subpostuasal frontal as broad as long 1011 scales in orbital ring labials 8 temporals small  1 pair of chin shields scales in 25 rows rarely 27 veutrals 114134 subcaudals 3055.
Length 400 mm.
tail 90.
Color usually grayish or yellowish brown with the dorsal series of spots blackish brown separated by narrow interspaces usually tinged with yellow one or two series of small blackish blotches on the sides belly white or yellow more or less cbuded with dusky two dark blotches on the nape parietals blackish the bar on prefrontals and postocular streak present.
Tn some color phases this form resembles both of the other species  but may always be known from jilatyrhimis by the small plates behind the rostral being from 410 instead of one or two and from yiaicus by the presence of two more scale rows and a much lighter abdomen.
Hab.
 Georgia and Florida to the Mississippi.
Heterodon nasicus B. and G. I. r. 61  II.
n. nasicus and .
n. Kennerlyi Cope I. c 641 and Rep. Xat.
Mus. 712 773 II.
nasicus Boul. I. c II 156.
Snout very short and much recurved  maxillary teeth 810 azygous plates as in slintis sometimes 20 or more 1011 scales in orbital ring as a rule no inferior postnasal sometimes an additional loreal upper labials 8 1 pair of chin shields scales in 23 rows ventrals 128146 subcaudals 3245 a specimen in my collection has one or two subcaudals undivided.
The largest I have seen came from Pecos Tex. and measured 610 mm.
tail 78 another 555 mm.
tail 100.
Grayish brown sometimes yellow on the back a doi'sal and two lateral rows of spots usually smaller than in sbnm and often not distinct sometimes the dorsal spots are only indiciated by a darker shade the belly is whitish with black blotches usually entirely black in the centre three elongated black blotches on the nape an oblique streak behind the eye a narrow band across the frontal 4vnd another on the prefrontals parietals blackish.
Ilab.
 Fontana to Texas and Arizona northern Mexico.
TRIMORPHODON Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila.. 1861 297  I. c 678 ami Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1101  Boul. I. c III.
53.
Posterior maxillary teeth elongated grooved and separated by au interval anterior teeth elongated 2 loreals 1 or 2 preoculars  2 interuasals 2 nasals pupil vertical scales smooth with pits in 2127 rows anal divided size medium.
Hab.
 North America and JNIexico.
Trimorphodon lyrophanes Cope.
I. c 297  I. c 679 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1102  Boul. I. c III 56.
Seven maxillaiy teeth head distinct head plates normal 2 loreals one in front of the other 2 preoculars usually a small subocular 3 postoculars labials 9 scales in 21 rows veutrals 236 subcaudals 70.
Length 710 mm.
tail 110.
Light gray deep brown spots in pairs on the back 21 pairs iu the type specimen an irregular series of lateral spots belly white with small dark spots on the ends of some ventrals head light gray banded with darker.
Hab.
 Arizona and Lower California.
SIBON Fitzinger.
Neue Class Rapt. 29 1826  Cope I. c 670 aufi Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1106 Leptodira part Boul. I. c III 88.
Posterior maxillary teeth elongated grooved and separated by an interspace 1 loreal 1 to 3 preoculars 2 nasals 2 iuternasals pupil vertical scales smooth with pits in 1925 rows anal divided size moderate.
Hab.
 North and South America.
Cope appears to be justified in separating the American species with divided anal from the Asiatic with single anal Leptodira Gunther having included both au arrangement which is followed by Boulenger.
Sibon septentrionalis Kennicott.
Dipsas septentrionalis Kenn.. U. S. Mex.
Bound.
Surv. II 16 PI.
8 fig.
I  Sibon septentrionale Cope I. c 678 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1107  Leptodira septentrionalis Boul. I. c III 93.
Head very distinct body tapering head scales normal 3 preoculars the lower one very small pcstoculars 2 temporals 12 labials 8 scales in 2123 rows ventrals 194 subcaudals 6572.
Length 750 mm.
tail about onefifth.
Grayish or yellow above Avith darkbrown saddleshaped spots six or eight scales long and nearly reaching the ventrals belly yellowish top of head and part of the upper labials light brown with blackish markings an indistinct pale band aci'oss the nape.
Hab.
 Texas to Arizona  northern Mexico.
ERYTHROLAMPRUS Waglcr.
Syst.
Araph. 1871830  Cope I. c 676  B3ul. I. c III 199  Coniophanes Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1096.
Posterior maxillary teeth elongated grooved and separated by an interspace 1 loreal 1 or 2 preoculars 2 nasals pupil round scales smooth without pits in 1525 rows anal divided size moderate.
Hab.
 North and South America.
Erythrolamprus imperialis Baird.
TcmiiopJiis imperMis Baird U. S. Mex.
Bound.
Surv. II 23 PI.
XIX fiw.
1  B. imperidlis Cope I. c 676  Boul. I. c III 206  Goniophanes imperialis Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1097.
Head not very distinct size small head shields normal 2 nasals 1 loreal oculars 12 temporals 12 upper labials 8 7 scales in 19 rows ventrals 120143 subcaudals 6794.
Length about 410 mm.
tail IGO.
Light brown with a blackish vertebral stripe and one on each side scales below the lateral stripes pale brown a yellow line with black edges from nostril to temporals upper labials whitish dotted with black belly reddish sometimes with black dots.
Hab.
 Southern Texas to Central America.
TANTILLA B. and G. I. c 131  Cope.
I. c 597 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1110  Uomalocranium Boul. I. c. III 213.
Posterior maxillary teeth slightly elongated grooved and separated by an interspace no loreal 1 preocular 2 nasals 2 internasals scales smooth without pits in 15 rows anal divided size small  head flat and not very distinct.
Hab.
 North and South America.
' Tantilla is preferred to Homalocranium for the reasons given under Stoi'ena.
Key to the Species in United States.
a.
 Upper labials 7   A yellow or white collar on nape A black band behind collar ventrals less than 158 1.
2 coronata.
Black dots behind collar ventrals more than 167 2.
T. eiseni.
h  No collar on nape head black .
.
3.
T. nigriceps.
b.
 Upper labials 6 4.
T. gracilis.
Tantilla coronata B. and G. I. c. 131  Cope I. c 598 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1114  no7nalocranium coronatum Boul. Ill 218.
Size small and slender head not distinct head plates normal no loreal posterior nasal in contact with preocular oculars 12 temporals 11 2 upper labials 7 scales in 15 rows ventrals 138158 subcaudals 3558.
Length 220 mm.
tail 35.
Eeddish brown above belly whitish top of head dark brown with a yellow crossband behind the parietals bordered behind by a black one two scales wide.
Hab.
 Gulf States Georgia to Mississippi.
Tantilla eiseni Stejneger.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1895 117.
Size rather larger postnasal almost separated from the preocular by the prefrontal ventrals 167181 subcaudals 5865.
Length 365 mm.
tail 82.
Much resembling T. coronata but with a more slender body a longer tail and a greater number of ventrals and subcaudals.
The only specimens known have been more than twenty years in spirits but from Mr. Stejneger's description the color must have been like coronata but the collar was bordered behind by black dots in place of a band.
Hab.
 Seven specimens known all from Fresno California.
Tantilla nigriceps Kennicott.
Troc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860 328 Cope I. c 598 aud Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1113 H. pkmiceps part Boul. I. c III 226.
Size small postnasal usually in contact with preocular oculars 11 2 temporals 11 upper labials 7 scales in 15 rows ventrals 121168 subcaudals 4266.
Length 275 mm.
tail onefifth.
Yellowish biown above white underneath top of head blackish brown  no collar.
1 Mr. Boulenger considers this form identical with Coluber planiceps Blain.
 the type of that species however came from 'Lower California and there is no proof that nigriceps extends west even to California proper.
Van Denburg doe not mention it 'as an inhabitant of the State and the evidence of its 'presence even in Arizona is not of the best.
Hab.
 Texas and New Mexico possibly Arizona.
Tantilla gracilis B. and G.
I.e. 132 Cope .
f. 598 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1111 .
gracilis Boul. I. c III 228.
Size small postnasal occasionally .separated from preocnlar by prefrontal oculars 11  temporals 11 upper labials 6 15 rows of scales ventrals 112137 subcaudals 4151.
Length 215 mm.
tail 43.
Reddish or greenish brown above some scales speckled with darker belly salmon color in life top of head dark brown labials yellowish brown.
Through the courtesy of Mr. JuUus Hurter of St. Louis the Zoological Society has lately received five living specimens of this little snake taken by him in Jefferson county Mo.
Hab  Missouri to Texas.
ELAFS Schneider.
Hist.
Amph. II 289 1801 B. and G. I. c 21  Cope I. c 679 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1119 Boul. I. c. III 411.
A pair of large perforated poison fangs in front no other maxillary teeth no loreal 2 iuteruasals 2 nasals pupil vertical elliptical scales smooth without pits in 15 rows anal divided subcaudals single or double or both body cylindrical head not very distinct tail short.
Hab.
 jSorth and South America.
The snakes of this genus are beautifully ringed with black re and yellow in varying proportions.
All are venomous and structurally related to the cobras.
Several species of harmless snakes so nearly resemble them in color especially the red and yellowringed forms of Ophlbolus doliatas that novices in herpetology should beware of handling living specimens presenting these colors until assured that they are not dealing with an Elaps.
There arc some twentyfive known specie.
 extending from South Carolina to Brazil two only being found within the United States.'
Snout black pariehils yellow first wide ring black 1.
E. fulvlus.
Sntnit and parietaJs black first wide ring red 2.
E. euryxanthus.
Elaps fulvius IColuber fulvius L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 381  Elaps faUins  E. tcnere and E. tristis B. and G. I. c 2123 E. fulvius and E. distans Cope I. c GSO 681 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1120 1123 E. fulvius part Boul. I. c  III 422 E. fulvius Stej. Rep. U.
8.
Nat.
Mus. 1893 359.
Rostral small not extending between the internasals which ai'e rather small oculars 12 temporals 11 2 upper labials 7 third largest ventrals 203237 subcaudals 2545.
The largest I have seen measured 930 mm.
tail 70.
There are 1117 black rings from seven to ten scales long and the same number of red ones from 812 scales long ou the body the black ones are bordered before and behind by yellow rings one or two scales long many scales in the red rings are mottled with black there are three or four black and an equal number of yellow rings on the tail but no red.
Top of the head in advance of the parietals is black followed by a yellow ring extending to the angle of the mouth then a black one 58 scales long.
Examples are said to be found in Florida with the black rings much narrowed and the snout red instead of black.
These are referred by Prof.
Cope to E. distans Kenn.
 the typo of which was from Chihuahua.
Such specimens must in any event be very rare for the Zoological Society has received more than eighty Elaps from Florida not one of which has exhibited the characters of distans.
Hab.
 South Carolina to western Texas and up the Mississippi valley occasionally to southern Ohio northern Mexico.
Elaps euryxanthus Kennicott.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1860337 Cope I. c 681 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1125  Boul. I. c III 415 Stej. I. c 362.
This littleknown species closely resembles E. fulvius the rostral is produced posteriorly and extends slightly between the internasals the frontal is very small the black of the snout extends back over the parietals and is followed by a yellow ring then by a wide red one the red rings do not show black mottling on the scales.
Ventrals 215241  subcaudals 2129.
Hab.
 Central and southern Arizona northern Mexico.
VIPERIDiE.
Kexj to the Genera.
a.
 No rattle Ancistrodon.
b.
 A rattle  Top of head with large plates Sistrurus.
Top of head with small scales Crotalus.
ANCISTRODON Beauvais.
Trans.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc IV 381 1799 Agkntrodon and ToxicopJds B. and G. I. c 1719  Ancistrodon Cope I. c 681 and Kep.
Nat.
Mus. 131  Boul. I. c III 519.
A pair of large erectalile perforated poison fangs in front of npperjaw no other maxillary teeth a pit between the eye and the nostril no rattle top of head covered with large plates scales keeled with pits in 2127 rows anal entire subcaudals single or double or both size large to medium.
Hab.
 Asia North and Central America.
Key to the Species of the United States.
No loreal plate a pair of postparietals .
.
1.
A. pisevvorus.
A loreal plate no postparietals 2.
A. contortrix.
Ancistrodon piscivorus Lac6pi5de.
Crotahis piscivorus Lacep. Serp. II 130 and 424 1789 Toxicophis piscivo7' us and T. pufjnax'B.
and G. I. c 19 20  4.
liisciviorus Cope I. c 683 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1133  Boul. .
c III 520  Stej. I. c 406.
Size large body very stout tail short from oneseventh to onesixth of length head broad behind flat on top snout rounded canthus sharp head plates normal but with usually a pair of small additional plates behind parietals no loreal preoculars 2 the upper much the largest .
postoculars 2 with one or two suboculars upper labials 8 occ.
7 the third entering the orbit scales in 25 rows strongly keeled  ventrals 130147 subcaudals 3948 more or less of which are undivided usually the anterior ones.
A specimen from Florida now living in the Zoological Gardens 1550 mm.
long and 250 mm.
in circumference is the largest I have ever seen.
The color pattern is obscure half grown examples are usually dark chestnut or greeni.sh olive with blackish brown cro.ssbands Avith irregular borders.
Older ones become much darker and the bands are obscured belly yellow clouded with brown.
Head blackish browu  an obliue streak behind the eye and a yellowish white band on the upper labials.
Hab.
 North Carolina and Florida through the Gulf States to Texas up the Mississippi valley occasionally to Illinois.
The name ' ' water moccasin ' ' properly belonging to this species is often wrongly applied to large dark individuals belonging to Tropidonotus  but the shape of the head the presence of the loreal pit and the sharply tapering tail easily distinguish it.
Anoistrodon contortrix L. Boa contortrix L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 373 Agklslrodon contortrix B. and G. I. c 17  Stej. I. c 401  Ancistrodon contortrix Cope I. c 683 and Rep. Nat.
iMus. 1135  Boul.
I. c. III 523.
Smaller and less stout than A. pisclvorus no postparietal plates loreal present eye entirely separated from labials by the suboculars upper labials 8 occ.
7 scales in 23 rows rarely 25 ventrak 145155 subcaudals 3152 some of the anterior ones usually undivided.
A large specimen from Pennsylvania measures 1000 mm.
tail 130.
Body color peculiar yellowish pink often pale drab crossed by irregular brownish red bands with darker borders wider and often with pale centres on the sides a series of small circular brownish red spots on outer rows and ends of the ventrals anteriorly these are mostly on the ventrals belly yellowish or pink some.times maculated with darker chin and throat yellowish white sides of head cream color top often bright copper whence the name  copperhead.
In life the markings vary greatly in outline and richness of color.
Hab  Massachusetts south to Florida west to Illinois Oklahoma and central Texas.
SISTRURTJS Garman.
No.
Amer.
Kept. 110 1833 Crotalophorm B. and G. I. c 11 Cope I. c 684 Sistrurus Boul. I. c III. 569 Stej. I. c 410 Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1140.
A pair of large erectable perforated poison fangs in front of upper jaw  no other maxillary teeth loreal pit and rattle present top of head covered with large plates scales keeled wuth pits in 2125 rows anal and subcaudals not divided sizes small to medium.
Hab.
 North Amei'ica and Mexico.
Key to the Species in United States.
Postnasal in contact with preocular the hght line to angle of mouth begin at nostril 1.
S. catenatus.
Postnasal separated from preocular by loreal light line to angle of mouth begins at the eye 2.
S'.
miliar ius.
Sistrurus catenatus Kafinesqne.
Crotaliiius calenatus Eaf. Amer.
Monthly 3Iag. 1818 p. 41.
Short and stout tail about oneninth of length rattle small head plates normal there is no large loreal and the upper preocular is in contact with the postnasal occasionally the anterior end of the preocular is cutoff forming a small upper loreal scales in 2327 rows one or two of the outer smooth ventrals 135157 subcaudals 1734.
The color is gray brown or even black with seven series of blotches on the back the dorsal series dark brown with a narrow light border anteriorly often crescentshaped posteriorly becoming subcircular the second series roundish and indistinct more or less alternating with the dorsals third vertically elongated colored like the dorsals and opposite to them fourth small and on the outer rows and ends of the ventrals belly yellowish more or less marked with black.
Top of head with a light band across the anterior end of frontal two dark bands running back from the supraoculars to the first dorsal spot and a dark spot between them on the parietals and frontal  a dark oblique streak behind the eye bordered above and below by a light line the lower one beginning at the nostril and running to the angle of the mouth two lisrht lines from the loreal pit to the labial border.
It has been customary to divide this species into a northern and a southern race but the characters ascribed to them are less constant than has been supposed and they were in fact united by Mr. Boulenger nevertheless the greater proportion of the individuals found within each geographical area do present sufficient differences to warrant their separation  Scales usually in 25 rows dorsal spots usually less than 40 1.
S. c. catenatus.
Scales usually in 23 rows dorsal spots usually more than 40 2 S. c. eonsoi's.
Sistrurus catenatus catenatus Italhicsque.
I. c 41  Crotalophorus tergeminus and C. Kirtlundii B. and G. I. c 14 16.
G. c. catenatus Cope I. c 685  Sistrurus catenatus part Boul. I. c III 570  S. catenatus Stej. I. c 411  S. c. catenatus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1146.
In this northern race the scale rows are usually 25 but occasionally 23 or 27  the dorsal spots are larger and fewer in number than in eonsors being generally from 3741 in number of which 35 are on the tail but an occasional example has them as numerous as in the southern form.
No.
7241 Academy coll.
is a catenatus from Fort Kiley Ivans. with 27 rows of scales and 44 dorsal blotches of which 9 are on the tail leaving the number of body spots about as they should be.
No.
7240 has also 27 rows and only 37 spots with a black belly.
Nos.
724344 are two interesting specimens collected together in INIichigan the former has 23 rows and 37 spots and the belly is immaculate yellow the other one has 27 rows and the belly is wholly black.
The colors are usually darker and the lateral spots more distinct than in eonsors.
Occasional examples are entirely black.
Ventrals 136150 subcaudals 1729.
Length about 900 mm.
Hab.
 Ohio to Kansas and north into Canada.
Formerly found in western New York but it has now disappeared from most cultivated localities.
Sistrurus catenatus eonsors B. and G. Crotalophorus eonsors and C. Echcardsii B. and G. I. c 12 15  0. c. edwardsii Cofe I. c 685  Sistrurus catenatus part Boul. I. c III 570  Garman. Bull Ess.
Inst. XXIV 101 1894  S. c. eonsors and S. c. edicardsii Stej. I. c 415 416  S. c. edicardsii Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus.
1144.

 Compared with the preceding this subspecies is probably rather smaller the scutellation is similar but the scale rows are usually 23 though sometimes 25 the dorsal spots are smaller and more numerous being in most cases 4050 in number of which 46 are on the tail.
Variations toward S. c. catenatus are not uncommon however No.
7234 Academy coll.
from Hennessey Okla. labeled edioardsi has 25 rows of scales and 44 spots and No.
7235 from Texas has 23 rows of scales and but 37 spots.
The correct name of the southwestern form of Sistrurus has been iu doubt owing to the loss of Baird and Girard's type of C. eonsors and the omission of some important details from their original description.
The Zoological Society has lately received a living Slstrurus from Port Lavaca Calhoun county Tex  practically the type locality of consors which agrees with Baird and Girard's description of that species in all respects as well as with Garman's Matagorda specimens.
It has 25 rows of scales the two outer smooth 53 dorsal blotches 45 on the body and 8 on the tail ventralg 153 subcaudals 27 length 520 mm tail 70.
There is no large loreal and the preocular is in full contact with the postnasal.
As edwardsi is known to sometimes present 25 scale rows there is nothing to separate the two forms except an insignificant difference in the number of spots.
Regarding them as identical the name consors has priority.
Hab.
 Indian Territory to northern Mexico west to Arizona.
Sistrurus millarius L. Crotnlus miliarius L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
XII 372  Croialophorus miliarius B. and G. I. c 11  Cope L c 685  Sistrurus miliarius Boul. I. c III 569 Stej. I. c 418 Sistncriis miliarus Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1141.
Smaller and more slender than S. catenatus  rattle very small  loreal present sejarating the postnasal from the preocular scales in 23 rows occ.
21 ventrals 127140 subcaudals 2036.
Length about 550 mm.
tail between oneseventh and oneeighth.
Gray yellowish or brbwn more or less dark seven series of blotches on the body disposed much as in the genus the dorsals are dark often purplish irregular in shape and from 3845 in number the interspaces on the vertebral line are often red the head markings are much as in the last species but the dark spot on the parietals is absent and the lower light line on the side of the head begins on the postoculars instead of the nasal belly yellow with blackish blotches.
Hab.
 North Carolina and Florida to Texas up the Mississippi valley probably to Illinois.
CEOTALUS L. Sjst.
Nat. Ed.
X 214  B. and G.l.
c. Cope I. c 686 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1149  Boul. .
c III 572.
A pair of large erectable perforated poison fangs in front of the upper jaw no other maxillary teeth loreal pit and rattle present top of head covered with small scales scales keeled outer sometimes smooth with pits in 2331 rows anal and subcaudals not divided.
Size medium or large.
Hab.
 North and South America.
Xotwitlistanding the wide range of this genus through the whole of Auiorica from lower Canada to Brazil its members form a very compact group and though many of the species resemble each other closely there is a curious absence of transitional characters so that it is necessary to recognize as distinct species forms as closely similar as adamanteus and atrox as well as confluentus and oregonus  lacifer B. and G.  in which the differences though slight are as far as I can discover absolutely constant.
Key to the Species oj the United States.
A.
 Anterior nasal in contact with rostral I.
 Back with chevronshaped crossbauds tail black.
I. C. horridus.
b.
 Back with spots or crossbands posteriorly a  Rostral as high or higher than wide 35 scales between suboculars and labials  a'.
 Dorsal spots lozenge shaped Lozenges distinct a light vertical line in front of nostril bands on tail not very distinct 2.
C. adamanteus.
Lozenges with angles cut off no light line in front of nostril tail white with black bands 3.
C. atrox.
l Dorsal spots rhomboid  crossbands behind  Head scales larger dark streak beginning at anterior corner of eye .
4.
C confluentn.
Head scales smaller dark streak beginning at posterior corner of eye .
5.
C. oregonvs.
. Dorsal spots with a light centre on each side of the median line .... 6.
C. molossm.
l Dorsal spots small in two rows .
7.
G. pricel.
ji Rostral wider than high 2 scales between suboculars and labials  t Supraoculars not produced into a horn Spots anteriorly crosbands behind 8.
C. tigris.
Greenish with black crossbands 9.
C. lepidus.
j Supraocular produced into a horn 10.
Ccerastes.
B. Anterior nasal separated from rostral by scales II.
C mitchellL Crotalus molossus B. and G. I. e. 10  Cope I. c .689 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1154  Stej. I. c 424  C. lerrificus part Boxil. I. c III 573.
Snout broad rostral rather small its width about equal to its height scales on top of the muzzle larger than in any other North American species and usually about eight in number five or six rows of scales between supraoculars often two larger ones in front four or five rows of scales between the suboculars and upper labials 29 rows of dorsal scales ventrals 187203 subcaudals 25.
Length about 1400 mm.
Sulphur yellow above tail lilack or dark brown dorsal spots chestnut brown transversely wide and irregularly lozenge shaped usually lighter in the centres of their lateral parts these spots are ootnmonly prolonged down to the ventrals lelly yellowish clouded posteriorly a dark oblique streak behind the eye.
Hab.
 New Mexico Arizona and Sonora.
In the size and arrangement of the plates on the muzzle this species approaches C. durmus of South America.
Crotalus adamanteus Beauvais.
Trans.
Am.
Phil.
Soc IV 36S 1799 B. and G. I c 3  C. a. adamanteus Coipe I. c 690 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1161  C. durissuis Boul. I. c III 578 C. adamanteus Stej. I. c 433.
Largest of the genus head broad behind triangular rostral higher than wide usually two plates on the muzzle behind the nasals the rest of the head covered with small scales 68 rows between supraoculars 35 rows between suboculars and labials  There has been disagreement as to whether the Linurean name durissus belongs to this or to the South American species.
Mr. Boulenger adopts it for this species and uses terrifieus Laur.
for the South American.
To me the case appears otherwise.
Linnajus' scanty description does not sufficiently indicate either bit examination of his references to determine the basis of his species shows that Ssba's p'ates best indirate the South American form and in the text Seba II 99 Mexico is the most northern locality referred to.
Linncens' paper in the Anicenitates Academiem I 500 and Gronovius both treat of specimens from South America  while the only North American rattlesnake apparently known to Kalm was the most northern of all Jiorr klus Ij..
It appears then that darissns L. is a compound not of the South American and the diamond rattlesnakes but of the Ibrmer and the Northern handed species.
But Linneus' description  Albo jlavoque 'Biriis maculis rhombeis disco ilnf cannot applj' to the latter durissus therefore should bs restricted to tiie South American form.
Laurenti's description of terrifieus is not much nmce ample tlian that of Linnreus but lie refers his species to Seba's PI.
95 fig.
1 in which the only recognizable detail t'ae scutellation on the muzzle most clearly indicates the South American species  terrifieus Laur.
is therefore a synonym of durissus L. durissus Laur.
is a compound of Linnivus' description above quoted and Catcsby's PI.
XLI A'ol.
ii which is horridus.
I am unable to find evidence than any of thee authors knew of the existence of a rattlesnake in North America other than horridus  and the la'ge diamond rattlesnake of the Gulf States remauied unrecognized until 1799 when Beauvais applied to it the name adaiiui ntcus.
scales ill 2720 rows as in most of the species the first and second rows are faintly keeled or smooth ventrals 169178 subcaudals 2532.
The largest specimen I have seen measured 1910 mm.
and came from St. Simon's Island Ga.
It was formerly in possession of the Zoological Society.
There is little doult that the species reaches 2 200 mm.
or more.
Yellowish gray above with lozengeshaped dorsal lilotches sharply defined blackish with centres of the lody color and separated by oblique yellow lines crossing each other on the Ijack on the sides in the triangular open spaces which alternate with the lozenges there is a black spot other indistinct markings sometimes appear on the sides posteriorly the colors are somewhat darker and the lozenges take the shape of crossbauds which form not very welldefined rings ou the tail but the colors there are not sharply contrasted belly yellowish white clouded with brown toward the sides.
There is a wide dark oblique streak from below the eye to the labials bordered in front and behind by a light one two light bars from the loreal pit to labials and another in front of the nostril.
Hab.
 North Carolina and Florida west to Louisiana and probably eastern Texas.
Crotalus atrox B. and G. I. c 5.
The western representative of the diamond rattlesnake is very like it in appearance but may always be distinguished by the absence of the light vertical line in front of the nostril by the absence of sharply defined angles to the dorsal spots and by the strongly contrasted black half rings on the tail.
A raie form known only from southern California is retained as a subspecies.
Color grayish or brown markings distinct .
.
1.
C. a. atrox.
Color red  markings not very distinct .
.
.
2.
C. a. ruber.
Crotalus atrox atrox B. and G. I. c 5 C. adamanteus a.trox and C. a. sautulatus Cope. I. c 690 aud Rep. Xat.
Mus. 11G4 1159 C. sciitnlatus and C. confluentus part BouL I. c III 575 576  C. atrox Stej. I. c 436.
Size rather less than adamanteus but form and scutellatiou very similar the supraoculars are sometimes but not always bordered internally by a row of enlarged scales rows of scales between supraoculars often 4 but sometimes 
or  34 scales between suboculars aud labials scales in 2725 rows ventrals 173187 subcaudals 2328.
Of many specimens the largest I have seen measured 1670 mm.
Yellowish or grayish sometimes quite brown with a series of dark brown or black dorsal spots with centres of the body color the angles of the spots are not sharp as in adamanteus but are cut off forming irregular hexagons the lateral markings are indistinct tail gray or Avhite with 35 dark brown or black halfrings belly yellowish more or less clouded on the sides.
The oblique streak behind the eye is present but the light line in front of the nasal is always absent.
Some young examples have a narrow light line across the middle of supraoculars.
Hab.
 Central Texas to Arizona northern Mexico.
Crotalus atrox ruber Cope.
I. c 690  a confluentiis part Boul. I. c III 576  O. a. ruer Stvj. I. c 439  G. ruber Van Den. I. c 222  Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1167 Size smaller than C. a. atrox  rostral wider canthus less distinct head scales small  8 rows between supraoculars 5 between suboculars and labials 27 rows of scales ventrals 183186 subcaudals 2226.
Length about 1300 mm.
Pale red dorsal spots darker red lateral spots and head markings indistinct although a specimen from San Diego formerly living in the Zoological Gardens plainly showed the oblique streak behind the eye belly yellowish tail whitish with black crossbauds.
Hab.
 Southern California.
A better acquaintance with this rare snake may require that it be given specific rank especially as Mr. Van Denburg does not include C. a. atrox in his list of California snakes.
Crotalus confluentus Say.
Long's Exp. II 48 1823 B. and G. I. c 8  0. c. confluentus and G. c. puhernlentus Cope I. r. 696 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1170 1174 G. cotiffientiis part Boul. I.e. 111576 G. confluentus Stej. I. c 440.
Body rather slender rostral higher than wide no very distinctly enlarged plates behind the nasals head scales of moderate size 36 between supraoculars 24 between suboculars and labials 2729 rows of scales ventrals 173188 subcaudals 2328.
Length about 1400 mm.
Grayish or yellowish brown with a dorsal series of subquadrate dark brown blotches with rather lighter centres and soractiraos a yellowish border the corners are often rounded and posteriorly the spots become crosslands two series of smaller alternating blotches on the sides belly dull yellow a transverse light line on the centi'e of the supraoculars which Avidens and sometimes bifurcates internally in the young this is very distinct and the anterior arm of the bifurcation is continued across the vertex to meet its fellow  the oblique eye streak begins very constantly at the lower anterior corner of the eye and is bordered by narrow white lines alight line below loreal pit and the borders of the rostral are light in the young.
Examination of the type of C. e. pulvernlentus Cope does not afford any good ground for distinction.
Hab.
 Southern Manitoba to central Texas west to Idaho and Arizona.
Crotalus oregonus Holbrook.
No.
Am.
Herp. Ill 21 PI.
3 1842 C. lucifer and C. oregonus B. and G. I. c 6 145 O. a. adamanteus synonomy C confluentus lecontii and C. c. lucifer Cope I. c 690 692  C. conflaeittiis part Boul. I. c III 576  C. lucifer Stej. I. c 445 and No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 218  Van Den. I. c 216  C. c. lecontei and C. c. lucifer Cope Kep.
Nat.
Mus  1175 1176.
Examination of the type of C. oregonus Holb.
leaves me with little doubt that it is identical with lucifer B. and G. The specimen has become much distorted and shriveled during the sixty years since Holbrook examined it but it shows no important difference in scutellation.
There are 6 scales between the supraoculars 3 between the suboculars and labials 25 rows of scales.
Holbrook'
plate does not quite correctly render the color pattern the dark streak behind the eye begins further back than is shown and really takes origin as in lucifer posterior to the centre of the eye.
The dorsal spots are not as emarginate on the anterior border as many of them are represented in the plate they are in fact sharply angled giving a superficial resemblance to adamanteus which can be the only reason why Cope includes it in the synonomy of that species  but much weight cannot attach to this single point in which the specimen differs from lucifer for the reason that the epidermis has long since peeled off leaving the whole pattern accentuated and the youth of the animal 315 mm.
long would also show these lines more sharply defined than they would become later in life.
The transverse light line on the supraoculars is precisely as in lucifer.
This species comes very near to confluentus but on account of the constancy of the slight differences I am obliged to give it specific rank the head scales are rather smaller the rows between supraoculars numbering in six examples 4 5 8 8 8 9 between suboculars and labials 24 scales in 2527 rows ventrals 165189 subcaudals 1826.
Size about the same as coiiteiiu.s.
The pattern is closely similar but the dark oblique streak behind the eye always begins posterior to its centre and runs backward directly to the angle of the mouth not curving downward as sharply as in confluentus the light lines bordering it are wider the transverse light line on supraoculars is present the belly is yellow or greenish with the posterior border of each ventral lighter.
In some specimens the general color is dark approaching even to black.
Hab.
 The Pacific coast California to British Columbia Idaho and northern Nevada and Utah.
Crotalus horridus L. Syst.
Nat. Ed.
X 214 C. dunssus B. and G. I. c 1  C. horridus Cope 7. c 693 and Eep.
Nat.
Mus. 1185 Boul. I. c III 578  Stej.
I. c 426.
Size smaller and body more slender than in adamanteus  rostral high two I'ows of small plates behind nasals 48 scales between supraoculars 24 between suborbitals and labials usually but one plate on canthus scales in 2325 rows occ.
27 ventrals 165178 subcaudals 1825.
Average specimens are about 900 to 1000 mm.
long and it is doubtful if the species ever much exceeds 1400.
Tlie body color is variable  sulphur yellow ashy and almost black one specimen from Alabama was in life a peculiar pale drab crossed by twenty or more irregular chevronshaped black bauds the bauds are sometimes complete but often broken into angular spots on the sides but they always have a ragged or zigzag appeai'ance.
The tail is black belly yellow marked with dusky head dark without distinct markings.
Hab.
 New England to northern Florida west to Iowa Oklahoma and northern Texas.
Crotalus tigris Kennicott.
U.S. Mex.
Bound.
Siirv.
Eept. 14 PI.
IV 1859 Cope I. c 69.3 and Rep. Nat.
Mns  1181  Boul. I. c III 580  Stej. I. c 449 and No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 214  Van Den. I. c 220.
Body ravlier slender rostral wider than high  two rows of small plates on the muzzle about six rows of scales between supraoculars generally two rows between suboculars and labials scales in 2123 rows occ.
25 vcntrals 170181 subcaudals 1921.
Length about 800 mm.
Grayish or yellowish witli a dorsal series of ratlier small dark blotches and an indisticct lateral series on the posterior twothirds of the body the spots are replaced by crossbands belly whitish or yellow a dark oblique streak behind the eye.
Hab.
 Arizona southern Nevada and southern California.
Crotalus lepidus Kennicott.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1861 206 Cope L c 692 and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1191  Boul. I. c 582  Stej. .
c 452.
Size small rostral wider than high eight Jlates on top of muzzle 34 rows between suraoculars 2 between suboculars and labials one nasal half divided the upper preocular divided vertically scales in 23 rows ventrals 153169 subcaudals 2731.
Length 600 mm.
Greenish gray with about 20 dark brown or black dorsal spots tail with several dark halfrings belly whitish clouded with brown two lai'ge dark spots in contact on the nape the dark oblique streak behind the eye is sometimes indicated.
Hab.
 Western Texas to central Arizona northern Mexico.
Crotalus cerastes Hallowell.
Proc.
Acad.
Phila. 1854 05  Cope I. c 694. and Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1196  Boul. L c. III 583 Stej. I. c 450 and No.
Am.
Fauna No.
7 216 Van Den. I. c  222.
Size small rostral as wide as high head scales small 57 between supraoculars 2 between suboculars and labials one nasal supraoculars elevated into a hornlike projection scales in 21 rows ventrals 134146 subcaudals 1021.
Length about 600 mm.
Yellowish with a dorsal series of small brown blotches and several indistinct series of smaller ones on the sides belly yellowish a narrow oblique streak behind the eye.
Hab. Ari zona southern Nevada Utah and California.
Crotalus pricei Van Denburg.
Proc.
Cal.
Acad.
Sci. 1895 8oG  Cope Rep. Nat.
Mus. 113t.
This species is known from five small specimens in the museum of the Leland Stanford University California.
From Mr. Van Denburg's description it appears to be characterized by a rostral slightly higher than wide enlarged lates on the muzle one to three rows between supraoculars one row between suboculars and labials and the presence of but nine upper labials the number in other species being 1218 21 rows of scales ventrals 153159 subcaudals 2127.
Length to rattle 447 mm.
tail 41.
Olive gray thickly covered with small brown dots.
Fiftyfour to sixty small brown blotches arranged in two series on the back somewhat alternating anteriorly but forming crossbands behind seven brown crossbands on the tail two or three rows of smaller alternating brown spots on the sides belly dark slate ends of the ventrals and outer row of scales whitish a dark brown oblique streak behind the eye two small brown spots on the occiput throat yellow tinged with vinaceous.
The peculiar characters of these specimens are'quite sufficient as far as they are now known to entitle them to recognition.
Hab.
 Huachucha Mountains Arizona.
Crotalus mitchelli Cope.
Proc.
Acnd.
Phila. 161 293 C. mitcJieUii and C. pyrr1iusCoe I. c. 694  C. rrdteheUi Bon. I. c. III 580 C. mitchellii Coy Rep. Nat.
Mus. 1193  G. m. luUchelH and 0. m. pi7''ius Ste. I. c 454 456 C mitculUYan Den. I. c 224.
Differs from all others of the genus in having the rostral separated from the anterior nasal by small granular scales canthus not sharp and without large plates 67 scales between supraoculars 3 rows between suboculars aud labials preocular sometimes divided 2325 rows of scales ventrals 178198 subcaudals 26.
Length about 1100 mm.
Ordinary specimens are grayish yellow with brown punctulations on the back which are collected into about forty transversely angular spots which form crossbands on the posterior fourth of the body tail light with distinct black halfrings an indistinct brown stxeak behind the eye with a light one in front of it.
Occasional examples are more or less red of varying shades upon such specimens C. pyrrhus Cope was founded.
Hab.
 Arizona and southern California.
190.
109 Serial Index.
Page 1.
GlauconiaGrav 13 1. dulcis B.'
and G. 13 2. humilis B.
andG...
.
14 2.
Licbauura Cope 14 1. roseofusca Cope 14 3.
Charina Gray 15 1. botta Blaiu.
15 2. bracbyops Cope 15 4.
Eutienia B. and G 18 1. saiirita L. 19 2. sackeni Keim 20 3. proxima Say 20 4. radix B. and G 20 5. megalops Kenn 21 mega lops Kenn 21 6. elegans B. and G 22 elegans B. and G. .
.
.
23 vagrans B. and G .
.
.
.
23 biscutata Cope 23 marciana B. and G .
.
24 coucbi Kenn 24 7. eqiies Reuss 25 8. sirtalis L. 25 ordlnataL. 26 sirtalis L. 26 parietalis Say 28 pickeringi B. and G .
29 leptocephalaB.andG.
30 9. multimaculata Cope... 3L 10. rufopunctata Cope .... 31 o. Tropidonotus Kuhl 32 1. leberis L. 32 2. grabami B. and G.  .
.
.
33 3. rigidus Say 33 4. clarkii B.
andG.
33 5. compressicaudus Kenn.
34 compressicaudus Kenn. 
34 ustus Cope 35 6. sipedon L.  35 fasciatus L. 36 sipedon L.. 37 traiisversus Hall 37 7. rbombifer Hall 33 8. cyclopium Dum.
and Bib.
38 9. taxispilotus Holb 39 6.
Seminatrix Cope 39 1. pygva Cope 39 7.
Helicops Wagl 40 1. alleni Garm 10 Page 8.
Storeria B. and G 41 1. deka.vi Holb.
41 2. occipitomaculata Storer 42 9.
Clonopbis Cope 42 1. kirtlandi Kenn.
42 10.
Tropidoclonium Cope 42 1. lineatum Hall.
43 11.
Ampbiardis Cope 43 1. inoroatus Garm.
.... 43 12.
Haldea B. and G 43 1. striatula L. 44 13.
Spilotes Wagl 44 1. corais  Boie 44 couperi Holb.
44 14.
Coluber L 45 1. guttatus L 16 2. quadrivittatus Holb .
.
46 3. obsoletus Say 47 obsoletus Say 47 lindheimeri B.
andG.
48 confinis B. and G. .
49 4. emoryi B. and G.  .
.
.
.
50 5. vulpious B. and ....
50 15.
Rbinecbis Micba 51 1. elegans Kenn.
51 16.
Pityopbis Holb 52 1. catenifer Blain.
52 catenifer Blain .... 53 belloua B. and G. .
.
.
54 sayi Scbl.
55 2. melanoleucus Daud.
.
55 17.
Zamenis Wagl 56 1. constrictor L. 58 constrictor L.  58 flaviventris Say ... 58 2. flagellum Sbaw 59 flagellum Sbaw ... 59 frenatus Stej.
60 piceus Cope 61 3. lateralis Hall.
61 4. tajniatns Hall.
62 ornatus  B. and G.  .
62 tffiuiatus Hall.
62 18.
Salvadora B. and G 63 1. grabami B. and G 63 19.
Pbyllorhyncbus Stej 64 1. browni Stej 64 2 decurtatus Cope 64 20.
Cyclopbis Guntb 65 1. ajstivus L. 65 110 Jan. Page 21.
Liopeltis Cope C6 1. vernalis Harl.
66 23.
Contia B. and G id 1. taylori Boul 07 2. episcopa Kenu.
07 episcopa Kenn.
... 7 'isozonaCope 17 3. occipitale Hall.
68 4. mitis B. and G 68 23.
Diadophis B. and r 68 1. punctatus  L.  69 2. amabilis B. and G 70 3. regalis B. and G 70 24.
Ophibolus B. and G 70 1. doliatus L. 71 triangiilus Daud.
.
72 clericus B. and G .
.
.
.
72 doliatus L. 73 coccineiis Scbl.
... 74 gentilis B. and G. .
.
.
75 2. getulus L. 76 sayi Holb.
76 getulus L.  77 boylii B. and G 78 californiiB Blain...
78 3. zonatus Blain.
79 4. rhombomaculatus Holb.
79 5. calligaster Harl.
80 25.
Stilosoma A.
Brown 80 1. extenuatuni A.
Brown .
81 26.
Carphopbis Gerv 81 1. amoenus Say 81 27.
Faraneia Gray 82 1. abacura Holb.
82 28.
Abastor iray 82 1. erytbrogrammus Daud..
83 29.
Virginia B. and G 83 1. valerite B. and G 83 2. elegans Kenn 83 30.
Ficimia Gray 84 1. cana Cope 84 31.
Chilomeniscus Cope 84 1. epbippieus Cope 85 2. cinctus Cope 85 Page 32.
Cemopbora Cope 85 I. coccinea Blum.
8 33.
Rbinocbilus B. and G 86 1. lecontii B. and G 86 34.
Hypsiglena Cope 87 1. ochrorbyncha Cope.
.
.
.
87 35.
Rhadinea Cope 87 1. flavilata Cope.
88 36.
Heterodon Latr 88 1. platyrbinus Latr 89 2. simus L. 90 3. nasicus B. and G 90 37.
Trimorphodon Cope 91 1 .
lyropbanes Cope 91 38.
SibonFitz 91 1. septentrionalis Kenn.
91 39.
Erythrolamprus Wagl 92 1. imperialis Baird 92 40.
Tantilla B. and G 92 1. coronala B. and G 93 2. eiseni Stej 93 3. nigriceps Kenn 93 4. gracilis B. and G 94 41.
Flaps Schu 94 1. fulvius L. 95 2. euryxantbus Kenn .... 95 42.
Ancistrodon Beauv 96 1. piscivorus Lacep.
.
... 96 2. contortrix L. 97 43.
Sistrurus Garm 97 1. catenatus Rafiu.
.... 98 catenatus Rafin...
.
99 consors B. and G..
99 2. miliarius L. 100 44.
CrotalusL 100 1. molossus B. and G 101 2. adamanteus Beauv 102 3. atrox B. and G 103 atrox B. and G 103 ruber Cope 104 4. confluentus Saj' 104 5. oregonus Holb 105 6. borridus L 106 7. tigris Kenn 107 8. lepidus Kenn 107 9. cerastes Hall 107 10. pricei Van Den 108 11. initcbelli Cope 108
