Notes ON FISHES FROM ARKANSAS INDIAN TERRITORY AND TEXAS.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry while in the abovenamed locahties during April of 1903 formed a small collection of fishes now in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
The more precise localities are 1.
Arkansas Rogers White river basin.
Hartford Arkansas river basin.
2.
Indian Territory Wister Arkansas river basin.
Limestone Gap Red river basin.
3.
Texas Hondo Neuces river basin.
Del Rio Rio Grande basin.
Devil's river Rio Grande basin.
One form appears to be new and the colornotes of others are especially interesting on account of the season.
SILURID..
Ictalurus punctatus Rafinesque.
Del Rio Texas.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Hondo Texas.
CATOSTOMID.
Carpiodes grayi Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XI 1S70 .p.
482.
Probably one of the Western States.
Head  depth 3 D. iii 23 A. ii 7 P. i 17 V. i 10 scales 35 in lateral line to base of caudal 7 scales obliquely from origin of dorsal to lateral line and 6 from latter to origin of ventral 17 scales before dorsal width of head 1 in its length depth of head 1 snout 3 eye 5 width of mouth Sf interorbital space 2 first developed dorsal ray li anal ray H pectoral 1 ventral 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 1.
Opercle with radiating parallel striae.
Gillrakers fine slender numerous shorter than filaments.
Color when fresh in alcohol dull olivaceousbrown on upper surface pale on sides and dilute or whitish on lower surface.
Everywhere with more or less dull brassy reflections.
Longitudinal lines following courses of scales pale.
Opercle bright brassy.
Fins dilute oliveyellow unpaired darker and slightly dusky marginally.
Cheek silvery.
Iris dull golden dusky above.
Peritoneum black.
Length 12 inches.
Del Rio Texas.
Also three others with same data showing following  Head 41to 41 depth 2f to 3 D. iii 22 to 25 scales to ba.se of caudal 35 to 36 total length 7 to 8f inches.
These all appear to me to agree best with Cope's description.
He gives the orbit as 4 in head but this is probably due to a different method of measuring.
If the figure of Idiohus tumidus is correct it may represent a distinct form.
The pectoral is said to almost reach the ventral and the radii are more numerous.
Girard's figiue of Carpiodes damalis shows a smooth opercle large subopercle and the ventral inserted well posterior to the tip of pectoral.
In my examples of C. grayi the first developed dorsal ray extends back about f of the entire length of the depressed fin.
Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur.
Color when fresh in alcohol dull olive inclining to whitish below and everywhere with more or less silvery reflections.
Back with five rather indistinctly defined large saddlelike blotches composed of dusky points.
Lower surface of head silvery.
Dusky dots on side of snout maxillary and upper opercle.
Dorsal and caudal dull scarlet margins more or less dusky especially that of former.
Anal pectoral and ventral whitish.
Hartford Arkansas.
Minytrema melanops Rafinesque.
Del Rio Texas.
Moxostoma congestum Baird and Girard.
Head 4J depth 4 D. ii 11 A. ii 7 P. i 17 V. i 9 scales 44 in lateral line to base of caudal and 2 or 3 more on latter 7 scales obliquely from origin of dorsal to lateral line and 5 between latter and origin of ventral 16 scales before dorsal width of head If in its length depth of head If snout 2yV eye 5 width of mouth 3 interorbital space 2 first developed dorsal ray 1 base of dorsal lf  U. S. Mex.
Bound.
Surv. Ichth 1859 p. 34 PI.
19 figs.
14.
2 Ex.
Doc.
No.
78 Rep. Expl.
Surv.
R. R. Miss.
Pac X.
Fish. 1858 p. 218 PI.
48 figs.
14. third developed anal ray ly base of anal 2i caudal 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral I2V ventral 1.
Color when fresh in alcohol dull or pale brown.
Lower surface dull milkywhite.
Back with more or less silvery reflections and slightly darker even longitudinal lines follow courses of scales.
Dorsal and caudal dilute duskyolive.
Anal pectoral and ventral pale salmon.
Iris pale yellowish with grayish.
Peritoneum silvery.
Length 11 inches.
Del Rio Texas.
CYPRINID.
Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque.
Adult male when fresh in alcohol dark brown above and on upper side lower side and under surface of body and fins white.
Lower side of trunk posterior to dorsal brickred with sporadic clusters of pale dusky above.
Dorsal and caudal dilute dull olivedusky former with a black transverse streak across its middle adjoining a brickred streak below.
Caudal a little dusky medianly at base.
Anal slightly ruddy with a deep brown transverse streak adjoining a brickred one above.
Pectoral grayish above at its base.
Ventral wnth more or less ruddy.
Other examples are tinged with dull chromeyellow and streaks on fins absent.
Rogers and Hartford Arkansas.
Chrosomus erythrogaster Rafinesque.
Rogers Arkansas.
Most examples with bright red bellies.
Fimephales notatus Rafinesque.
Color when fresh in alcohol dull olivaceous becoming pale on side and whitish below.
Body with more or less silvery reflections.
A narrow welldefined dusky or blackish band about equal to pupil in width extends from eye to base of caudal where it forms a spot and also distinct on upper opercle.
Scales on back all with more or less olivedusky dots and welldefined edges.
A small pale dusky spot on front of dorsal.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral dull grayish tinged with dilute red.
Anal and ventral pale slightly tinged with red.
Iris grayish.
Hartford Arkansas.
Limestone Gap Indian Territory.
Notropis blennius Girard.
Color when fresh in alcohol pale olivebuff whitish below and everywhere more or less silvery.
Scales on back without distinct dark edges.
An indistinctly defined and rather broad lateral band of gray from head to base of caudal and anteriorly including a number of dusky or darkbrown dots.
Fins pale or dilute brownish lower ones whitish.
Del Rio Texas.
Notropis shumardi Girard.
Color when fresh in alcohol pale oHvegreen whitish below and scales above lateral line with slightly darker edges.
Body more or less washed with silvery.
Dorsal and pectoral dilute reddish with dusky edges above.
Caudal pale duskygray.
Ventral and anal whitish.
Snout duskybrown.
Side with a rather broad indistinctly defined silvergray band from head to caudal and scales in lateral line after dorsal with blackish dots becoming most distinct on caudal peduncle.
No spot at base of caudal.
Blackish spots extending from posterior rim of eye backward but soon becoming indistinct above pectoral.
Iris grayish.
Limestone Gap Indian Territory.
Notropis lutrensis Baird and Girard.
Dark nuchal band conspicuous.
Small tubercles on upper surface of head and along lower side of body above anal very numerous.
Devil's river and Del Rio Texas.
Notropis proserpina Girard.
Dusky dots at base of dorsal.
Caudal bright yellow.
Del Rio Texas.
PARANOTROPIS subg.
nov.
Type Photogenis luciodus Cope The species of this group closely resemble those of the subgenus Notropis Rafinesque which is typified by atherinoidcs.
They differ chiefly in the fewer developed anal rays mostly 7 to 9.
They are also distinguished from the Luxilus and Hydrophlox groups by the absence of grinding surfaces on the teeth and the broad scales which are not narrowly imbricated.
From Orcella with which they agree in these respects they differ in the top of the head which is not especially elevated so that the eye is nearer the upper than the lower profile.
Episema Jordan based on scahriceps is preoccupied.
Ilapaj near vwr back and rpoxU keel hence Notropis.
Notropis pilsbryi sp.
nov. Head 4 depth 4i D. ii 8 A. ii 8 P. i 15 V. i 8 scales 40 in lateral line to base of caudal and 3 more on latter 15 scales before dorsal 5 scales between origin of dorsal and lateral line 4 scales between latter and origin of ventral width of head IfV in its length depth of head If  snout 3  eye 3  maxillary 3  interorbital space 3  length of depressed dorsal 1 depressed anal l pectoral 1 ventral If caudal 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f.
Body elongate compressed rather slender more or less fusiform 246 March and greatest depth at origin of dorsal.
Caudal peduncle long compressed and its least depth 2f in its length measured from base of last anal ray.
Head elongate compressetl.
and upper profile more or less straight from above nostrils.
Snout convex rather broad and also with a convex profile.
Eye rather large a little above middle of depth of head and well anterior in its length.
JMouth slightl curved inclined and jaws subequal lower hardly if any projecting.
Maxillary reaching about opposite front rim of orbit.
Mandible rather broad and rami 3ut little elevated edges of jaws rounded.
Tongue rather broad fleshy and adnate to floor of mouth.
Lijjs thin and narrow.
Nostrils adjoining near upper edge of eye and internasal space much less than interorbital.
Anterior nostril circular and posterior larger concealed in front b flap of anterior.
Both interorbital and internasal spaces a little elevated though flattened medianly.
Subopercle of moderate size.
Gillopening extending forward below posterior rim of orbit.
Rakers small weak and very short.
Filaments about f of orbit.
Pseudobranchise well developed.
Pharyngeal teeth 2 44 2 compressed and hooked.
Isthmus rather broad.
Scales cj'cloid moderately large and exposed portions but little deeper than broad.
Except base of caudal fins and head naked.
Lateral line slightly decurved at first running rather low and straight to base of caudal.
Tubes simple.
Dorsal inserted about midway between tip of snout and base of caudal second rudimentary ray rather long closely joined with first articulated which is longest.
Anal inserted behind base of dorsal first articulated ray longest.
Caudal forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral broad falling a little short of ventral.
Ventral inserted before origin of dorsal and reaching anus which is close in front of anal.
Color when fresh in alcohol dull olivebrown above below dull white and side with a broad diffuse grayish band.
A band a little wider than pupil composed of dusky dots extends from snout through eye along side to middle of base of caudal where it is intensified.
It is also continued out to margin of caudal as median rays are grayishdusky.
Top of head brownish and a median brownishdusky streak on back enclosing dorsal fin and continued to caudal.
Body everyw'here with more or less silvery.
Fins red deepest basally.
Dorsal caudal and pectoral with dilute olivaceousgray on outer portions.
Mandible reddish.
Iris silvery except horizontal median dark crossbar.
Peritoneum duskygray Length 3 inches.
Type No.
24514 A. N. S. P. Rogers White river basin Arkansas.
Collection Dr. H. A. Pilsbry.
Also six cotypes with same data.
After being in alcohol some time the colors have faded.
The longitudinal dusky band is however still present.
This species is very closely related to Notropis luciodus Cope differing apparently in coloration and slightly more slender body.
Named for my friend Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry well known among leading conchologists.
Subgenus NOTROPIS Rafinesque.
Notropis socius Girard.
Del Rio Texas.
Notropis notemigonoides Evermann.
Hartford Arkansas.
Phenacobius scopifer Cope.
Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceous above whitish below.
Scales on back edged with duskyolive.
Lower surface with silvery reflections.
Side of head somewhat brassy with pale dusky dots.
A broad duskyslate bar extends from eye to middle of base of caudal dividing upper and lower colors of body.
Top of head dark brownisholive with a median streak extending to dorsal and continued behind it to caudal.
A black spot at base of caudal.
Fins and lower surface of head with dilute red dorsal caudal and pectoral deepest.
Limestone Gap Indian Territory.
CHARAOINID.
Tetragonopterus argentatus Baird and Girard.
Color when fresh in alcohol pale olive on upper surface sides and lower surface silverywhite.
Upper boundary of silverywhite of sides shows a pale diffuse leaden band becoming distinct and dark along middle of side of caudal peduncle to base of caudal.
It is also continued on caudal as several of median rays are same color.
Dorsal and caudal dilute pale olivaceous latter with a pale ruddy wash. Anal with marginal portion slightly dusky and basally with a pale ruddy tinge.
Pectoral and ventral also with a dilute ruddy tinge A dull slaty blotch behind opercle above.
Iris pale yellowish.
Del Rio and Devil's river Texas.
PCEOILIIDiE.
Zygonectes notatus Rafinesque.
Hartford Arkansas.
Wister Indian Territory.
Gambusia afiRnis Baird and Girard.
Devil's river Texas.
ATHERINID.
Labidesthes sicculus Cope.
Hartford Arkansas.
CENTRARCHID.
Apomotis cyanellus Rafinesque.
Hartford Arkansas.
Devil's river Texas.
Lepomis megalotis Rafinesque.
Hartford Arkansas.
Devil's river and Del Rio Texas.
PERCIDiE.
Etheostoma whipplii Girard.
Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceousbrown paler or whitish below.
Back and side with marblings or mottlings of deep olivaceousbrown though on latter about 13 diffuse spots are formed along course of lateral line.
Posteriorly and on caudal peduncle they become vertically elongate.
An enlarged black humeral scale.
Head dusky above and a blackish streak from eye to upper corner of gillopening.
A dusky streak from below eye.
Fins mostly orangered with more or less dusky basally.
Spinous dorsal with a median longitudinal orangered band edged above and below with whitish.
A bright orangered bar on caudal next to rather dusky margin.
Pectoral and ventral grayish latter dark.
Limestone Gap Indian Territory.
Considerable variation is noticed.
Some examples have few brown mottlings on side others have them very distinct and wavy.
All are more or less orangered on fins and show greater portion of caudal dusky.
An example from Hartford Arkansas according to Dr. Pilsbry's notes had the fins vividly colored in life.
The spinous dorsal and ventrals were with green spines and rays the rayed dorsal and caudal with a scarlet border and the anal scarlet Avith a green edge.
OIOHLIDiE.
Heros oyanoguttatus Baird and Girard.
Del Rio and Devil's river Texas.
A STUDY OF THE BATS OF THE GENUS DERMONOTUS PTERONOTUS Auot..
BY JAMES A. G. REHN.
During the preparation of tliis paper a series of thirtysix specimens of the genus have been examined all being from the collections of the United States National Museum the Biological Survey of the United States Department of Agriculture and the American Museum of Natural History.
The author wishes to express his indebtedness to the gentlemen in charge of the collections of the above institutions for permitting the examination of the specimens.
DERMONOTUS Gill.
1S38.
Pteronotus Gray Mag.
Zool.
and Botan II p. 500.
Type Pteronotus davyi Gray.
Not of Rafinesque 1815.
1S43.
CMlomjcteris Wagner Archiv fiir Natvirgeschichte IX bd.
I p. 367.
Part.
1844.
Pteronotus Gray Voyage of the Sulphur I MammaUa p. 24.
1850.
Chilonycteris Wagner Abhandlungen Mathem.Physik CI.
Akad.
Wissenschaften Miinchen.
V p. 179.
Part.
1854.
Chilonycteris Burmeister Thiere Brasiliens I p. 74.
Part.
1855.
Chilonycteris Wagner Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere V p. 677.
Part.
1855.
Pteronotus Wagner Suppl.
Schreber's Saugthiere V p. 700.
1872.
Pteronotus Peters Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch. Berlin  p. 361.
1878.
Chilonycteris Dobson Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus.. p. 447.
Part.
1879.
Chilonycteris Alston Biol.
Cent.Amer. Mamm. p. 34.
Part.
1890.
Pteronotus J.
A. Allen Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. Ill p. 178.
1892.
Chilonycteris Thomas Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 6th ser. X p. 410.
Not of Gray.
1894.
Pteronotus J.
A. Allen Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. VI p. 248.
1901.
Dermonotus Gill Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Washington XIV p. 177.
To replace Pteronotus Gray.
1902.
Dermonotus Miller Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Washington XV p. 155.
Gena'ic Characters.
 Naked volar membranes extending over the back attached only along the median line and across the shoulders anterior to which section the dorsal surface is normally furred.
Skull with the braincase moderately elevated and rostrum distinctly inflated.
Denix 22 11 22 33 tition 1.
272.
c. j p. 33 m. 33.
History.
 The genus Dermonotus Pteronotus Gray is so closely related to Chilonycteris and Mormoops that its history is in great part a repetition of that witnessed in these two genera.
As considerable space has already been given to the taxonomic history of Mornioops and Chilonycteris only such points as differ will be noticed.
The genus was originally based on a specimen from Trinidad and associated by Gray with the following genera Cheiromeles Nyctinonus Molossus Thyroptera Myopteris and Dididurus.
Wagner in 1843 described a specimen of this genus taken by Natterer at Cuyaba Brazil as Chilonyderis gymnonotus unaware that Gray had created a genus for this type of bat.
Later in 1855 he apparently did not recognize his species as a close relative of Gray's Pteronotus davyi as he associated the latter which he of course had never seen wdth Cheiromeles and Dysopes in the section Macrura.
The question as to the tenability of the genus as distinct from Chilonyderis later caused a great amount of shifting the individual opinions of Peters Dobson Alston and Thomas differing as to the recognition of the genus.
In 1892 Thomas described a race of davyi from Jalisco Mexico basing it on the brilliant fulvous coloration of the Mexican specimens and their slightly smaller size.
Gill in 1901 discovered the fact that Gray's Pteronotus was preoccupied by Pteronotus Rafinesque a synonym of Pteropus and to meet the deficiency he proposed the name Dermonotus.
General Relations.
 The genus Dermonotus is closely associated with Mormoops and Chilonyderis which constitute the subfamily Mormoopince.
The characters of the genus are such that recent workers have all accorded it full generic rank and as Gill has stated I.e.
 modern systematic standards would fully allow the maintenance of the genus as distinct from Chilonyderis.
An interesting character noted in this genus as in the two allied genera is the occurrence of dichromatism.
The two phases are quite marked one being dull chocolatebrown the other rich fulvous.
Key to the Forms.
a.
 First upper premolar longitudinal not crowded forearm averaging 46.2 mm. davyi Gray.
aa.
 First upper premolar nearly transverse strongly crowded between the canine and second upper premolar forearm averaging 44.1 mm. davyi fidvus Thomas.
Dermonotus davyi Gray.
1838.
Pteronotus Davyi Gray Mag.
Zool.
and Botany II p. 500.
Trinidad.
1843.
Chilonyderis gymnonotus Wagner Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte IX bd.
I p. 367.
Cuyaba.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1902 pp.
160172 Ubid. 1904.
1844.
Pteronotus Daviji Gray Voyage of the Sulphur I Mammalia p. 24.
Trinidad.
1850.
Chilonycteris gymnonotus Wagner Abhandlungen Mathem.Physik CI.
Akad.
Wissenschaften Munchen V p. 179.
Cuyaba Matto Grosso.
1854.
Chilonycteris grjmnonotus Burmeister Thiere Brasiliens I. p. 75.
Cuyaba Matto Grosso.
1855.
Chilonycteris gymnonotus Wagner Suppl.
Sclireber's Saugthiere V p. 680 PI.
48.
Matto Grosso.
1855.
Pteronotus Davyi Wagner Suppl.
Sclireber's Saugthiere V p. 700.
Trinidad.
1872.
Pteronotns Davyi.
Peters Monatsb.
K. Akad.
AVissensch. Berlin p. 361.
Brazil Mexico.
Part.
1878.
Chilonycteris davyi Dobson Catal.
Chiropt.
Brit.
Mus. p. 453 PI.
XXIII.
Puerto Cabello Venezuela.
1879.
Chilonycteris davyi Alston Biol.
Cent.Amer. Mamin. p. 36.
Mexico Venezuela Trinidad Brazil.
Part.
1892.
Chilonycteris Davyi Thomas Ann.
and Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 6th ser. X p 410.
Trinidad Dominica Venezuela.
1892.
Chilonycteris davyi Thomas Journal Trinidad Field Naturalists' Club I p. 162.
Trinidad.
1902.
Dermonotus davyi Miller Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Washington XV p. 155.
Dominica Trinidad.
Type Locolity.
 Trinidad.
Distribution.
 Brazil Puerto Cabello 'enezuela and Trinidad and Dominica in the West Indies.
General Characters.
 Size medium character of the volar membranes as described under the genus.
Head.
 Occiput domeshaped and evenh' rounded rostrum rather depressed broad.
Ear rather elongate acuminate internal margin with the internal ridge very distinctly developed and forming a rounded lobe inferiorly superiorly with a blunt but distinct shoulder beyond which inframedian point the internal margin is evenly arcuate curving back to the recurved and very bluntly falcate apex external margin carried forward inferiorly to the angle of the mouth external shoulder romided and median in position superior portion of the external margin straight except for a marked concavity caused by the recurved apex.
Tragus subrectangulate apical portion narrower than the basal half external margin sinuate apex rounded accessory lobe rather small subhorizontal rounded forming a distinct shoulder or ledge internal margin inferior to the accessory lobe sinuate and with a distinct marginal thickening.
Nostrils surrounded by a very slight raised margin and surmounted by a fleshy ridge which is considerably excavated in the area superior to the nasal division  lateral portions of muzzle with a raised fleshy ridge which is separated from the nosepad by a rather deep incision.
Superior portion of the muzzle with a median rounded swelling situated a short distance back from the nostrils.
Labial chinlappet strongly transverse the lateral portions rather inconspicuous and merging into the lip proper median portion distinctly papillose the papillae bordering the arched incision separating the smooth incisive pad larger than the others posterior chinlappet almost equal to the labial in width thin closely ad pressed.
Limbs.
 Forearm of medium length very distinctly arcuate though the distal portion is considerably straighter than the proximal third finger slightly more than one and onehalf times the length of the forearm.
Femora tibiae and feet rather slender calcanea about a fourth as long again as the tibiae.
Membranes and Fur.
 Membranes rather thin but very tough and leathery propatagium deep extending free to the thumb endopatagium and mesopatagium with the longitudinal nerves very regularly and completely distributed endopatagium attached along the median line of the body by a thin membrane otherwise free except that anteriorly it is squarely attached across the shoulders and posteriorly it is tightly attached from the middle of the femur to its margin shghtly below the middle of the tibia uropatagium large the calcanea bound down to the tibiae to a point opposite the attachment of the endopatagium tail with the enclosed portion slightly exceeding the free apical section.
Fur woolly evenly distributed over the visible and concealed sections of the dorsal surface and also the entire venter membranes almost entirely covered with extremely fine short hair muzzle and lips with groups of distinctly setiform hairs.
Color.  General color vandykebrowai membranes and ears with a shght touch of blackish.
It is quite probable that typical davyi will be found to possess a rufous form as two phases of coloration have been found in almost all the other species and races of the Mormoopinae.
The distinct color phases of D. davyi fidvus are very marked but possibly the more southern type possesses but one color form or one strongly predominating phase a case of which is probably found in Chilonycteris rubiginoso.
and rubiginosa mexicana.
Skull.
 Rather fragile  rostrum considerably inflated and somewhat depressed.
Braincase evenh' arched transversely and with a shght longitudinal depression dipping suddenly toward the rostrum zygomata widest posteriorly and without any distinct arcuation.
Rostrum very distinctly inflated the greatest width over the posterior molars nasal depression broad smoothly excavated.
Mandible rather long the ascending ramus very low and weak  coronoid and condylar processes low inconspicuous and equal in development angle strongly curved laterally and with a recurved tip.
 From alcoholic specimens.
Teeth.
 Central pair of upper incisors broad with a straight shghtly bilobate cutting edge  lateral upper incisor low in basal outline equal to the median tooth upper canine slightly recurved first upper premolar subovate in basal outline the greatest length of the tooth sublongitudinal  second upper premolar subpentagonal in outline transverse cusp distinct and caniniform internal cingulum developed as a distinct rim to a slightly excavated area first and second upper molars subquadrate with the parametaconoid ridges distinct and high the paracone developed as a distinct shoulder protocone and hypocone distinct the former higher than the latter third upper molar transverse parametaconoid ridge deflected internally protocone quite distinct.
Lower incisors obscurely tridentate the median teeth in size considerably exceeding the laterals which are crowded against the canines  lower canines erect slightly curved and slightly tapering  first lower premolar subquadrate in basal outline cusp longitudinal acuteangulate  second lower premolar very small circular in basal outline crowded between the first and third premolars and deflected toward the lingual side of the toothrow  third lower premolar rather elongatequadrate cusp rather high acute molars with the interspaces deeply excavated the paraconid and hjpoconid lower than the other cusps.
Measurements.
 Average of five Dominican specimens Total length 70.8 7075 mm.
 head and body 52.2 51.353 head 18.9 18.119.5 ear 16 15.517 tragus 4.8 4.55.5 forearm 46.2 4548 thumb 8.5 8.19.1 third digit 77.4 7579 tibia 17.5 1718.1 calcaneum 21.6 1924 foot 11.1 10.811.5 tail 20.6 1822.
Average of two Dominican skulls Total length 16.7 16.517 greatest zygomatic breadth 9.1 99.3 interorbital width 4 height at base of the second premolar 3.9 3.84  height of braincase 6.7 6.47 width of palatal constriction 1.3 length of palate from anterior foramina 7.1 77.3  width of palate including teeth 6.2 6.16.3  greatest length of mandible 11.9 11.612.3 breadth of braincase above roots of zygomata 8.3 8.28.5.
Remarks.
 This form is apparently uniform in size through its range as Wagner's measurements of the type of gymnonotus I.e.
are not materially different from those of the Dominican series examined.
The typical form can readily be distinguished from davyi fulvus by the larger size and the position and less crowded character of the first upper premolar.
Specimens Examined.
 Five alcoholic specimens.
Dominica.
U. S. N.M. Dermonotus davyi fulvus Thomas.
1872.
Pteronotus Davyi Peters Monatsber.
K. Preuss.
Akad.
Wissensch. Berlin p. 361.
Brazil Mexico.
Part.
1879.
Chilonycteris davyi Alston Biol.
Cent.Amer. Mamm. p. 36.
Mexico Venezuela Trinidad Brazil.
Part.
 1890.
Pteronotus davyi J.
A. Allen Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. Ill p. 178.
Plains of Colima Mexico.
1892.
Chilonycteris Davyi fulvus Thomas Ann.
and Mag.
Xat.
Hist. 6th ser. X p. 410.
Las Penas Jalisco Mexico.
1894.
Pteronotus davyi J.
A. Allen Bull.
Amer.
Mus.
Nat.
Hist. VI p. 248.
South shore of Lake Chapala Michoacan Mexico.
Not of Gray.
1902.
Dermonotus fulvus Miller Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Washington X' p. 155.
Type Locality.
 Las Penas Jalisco Mexico.
Distribution.
 Specimens have been examined or recorded from localities from Tehuantepec to the type locality in JaHsco on the west coast and from Apazote Campeche to Mirador 'Sera Cruz on the Atlantic side.
General Characters.
 Similar to D. fulvus but the size is less and the first upper premolar is more crowded and with the greatest length transverse.
Head membranes and other external characters as in Dermonotus davyi.
Skull and Teeth.
 Essentially as in D. davyi except for the smaller size and the crowded character of the first upper premolar.
This tooth is strongly crowded between the canine and second premolar and in consequence is twisted so that the greatest length is almost transverse.
Color.
 Brown phase Fur above vandykebrown  below ecrudrab the hair sealbrown basally.
Membranes and ears clovebrown.
Rufous phase Fur above rich tawny below golden ochraceous hair cinnamon basally.
Membranes and fur as in the rufous phase.
From the series examined it would appear that the individuals are equally divided between the two phases.
Measurements.
 Average of series  Total length 20 63.3 59.773.5 mm.
 head and body 21 47.2 41.560.5 head 20 17.1 1618.5 ear 20 14.9 12.516 tragus 20 4.7 4.25 forearm 30 44.1 42.546  thumb 30 7.3 79  third digit 20 74.7 7178  tibia 30 17.1 1619 calcaneum 18 20 1823 foot 30 9.9 8.510.8 tail 23 20.5 1824.3.
Average of series of skulls Total length 10 15.5 1516 greatest zygomatic width 9 8.7 8.29.3  interorbital width 10 3.6 3.53.9  height at base of second premolar 11 3.4 33.9  height of braincase 8 6.3 66.8 width of palatal constriction 9 1.3 1.21.5 length of palate from anterior foramina 9 6.2 66.5  width of palate in Number of individuals in brackets.
eluding teeth 11 5.9 5.86 greatest length of mandible 10 11.7 11.312.3 breadth of braincase above roots of zygomata 9 7.8 7.48.
Remarks.
 The slightly smaller general size and the character of the first upper premolar will be found to separate this race from typical davyi.
The characters are however such that merely subspecific rank should be accorded it.
The range of variation in size in davyi fulvus is ver considerable and does not appear to depend on sex or locality.
Specimens Examined.
 Thirtyone eleven skins twenty alcoholic individuals  Tehuantepec Mexico.
U. S. N. M. 6.
Santa Efigenia Tehuantepec Mexico.
U. S. N. M. 2.
Apazote Campeche Mexico.
Biological Surv.
1.
San Andres Tuxtla Vera Cruz Mexico.
Biolog.
Surv.
11.
Mirador Vera Cruz Mexico.
U. S. N. M. 7.
Acapulco Guerrero Mexico.
Biolog.
Surv.
2.
 Hacienda Magdalena Colima Mexico.
Biolog.
Surv.
1.
Plains of Cohma Mexico.
A. M. N. H. 1.
THE LARVAL EYE OF CHITONS.
BY HAROLD HEATH.
In Chiton polii according to Kowalevski and in Ischnockiton magdalenensis Trachydermon raymondi and Nidtallina thomasi the eyes of the larvae become clearly defined about the time of the first appearance of the shell.
They are situated immediately behind the velum halfway up the sides of the body.
Concerning their structure Kowalevski writes They are characterized by the pigment deposited about a central clear body and are placed almost entirely upon the lateral or branchial nerves.
As the figures of this author show each ocellus at this time consists of a single cell imbedded in the epithelium covering the body.
In later stages this condition of affairs in the young of Chiton polii becomes more complex.
According to Kowalevski the pigmented body with its clear included vesicle retains its early characters but migrates under the skin and upon the branchial nerve.
The ectodermic epithelium situated above the eyes presents certain modifications which may be related to the function of the ocellus its cells are here very slender more elongated than those adjoining their appearance is different and it appears to me possible that these cells play a certain role in the transmission of luminous raj'S to the ocellus and perform the function of a cornea.
While working upon certain problems connected with the larval development of chitons I have many times noticed the ocelli in several species.
In those forms enumerated above save Chiton polii I have traced these structures through all stages from their first development until their final disappearance  and after the metamorphosis of the larva have determined their fate in Ischnochiton mertensii I. regularis I. cooperi Katharina tunicata and Tonicella lineata.
In its early stages in these species each eye appears essentially as described by Kowalevski and this state of affairs continues as long as the ocellus may be distinguished.
Under no circumstances does it become subepithelial.
In many cases the pigmented cell sinks somewhat beneath the general outer surface of the epithelium and is partially overarched by neighboring cells but these are in no wise different from those elsewhere in the skin and never give the impression of forming   Embryogenie du Chiton polii Philippi avec quelques remarques sur le developpement des autres Chitons .1 nn.
Mus.
hist.
nat.
Marseille T. I No.
5.
17 258 March a lens or cornea.
There is no reason to doubt the correctness of Kowalevski's observations but the eye of Chiton polii is certainly not typical.
On the other hand the eyes of the chitons I have examined are in their histological details essentially like those of the annelid trochophore.
In the latter organism they are placed in the velar field and are innervated by nerves from the cerebral ganglia in the chitons they are posttrochal and are situated on the pallial cords.
These facts however may not be fatal to the theory that the ocelli of the larva of these two phyla are homologous especially in view of the fact that their early development is almost identical.
I have shown in another paper A.
Section through ocellus and pallial cord of sexually mature Trachydermon raymondi 6 nun.
long.
B. Anterior part of nervous system of Ischnochiton mertensii 4 mm.
long h.g. buccal ganglion sr.g. subradular ganglia o. ocellus.
C. Section through eyespot of annelid Sabella trochophore.
that the head vesicle or the part of the chiton larva anterior to the velum becomes transformed into part of the first valve of the shell the mantle and mantle furrow of the same region and into the proboscis.
Now it is obvious that if the chiton eye were situated in front of the velum as in the annelids it would be most unfavorably placed after the metamorphosis.
Under the circumstances the most available situation would be the furrow about the proboscis where it  The Development of Ischnochiton Zool.
Jahrb. Bd.
XII 1S99 p. 630. would be continually obscured and would be practically useless even if provided with special tentacles.
It seems most reasonable to suppose that as the structures characteristic of the chitons appeared in the phylogenetic development the eyespots gradually shifted their position into the present more favorable location.
Pelseneer' has made a detailed study of the larval eyes of some of the Mytilidcc and the related genus Avicula.
They arise in the embryo behind the velum and on the base of the first gillfilament.
Each eye is open that is to say an invagination of the skin and consists of pigmented epithelial cells The cavity is filled by an elongated crystalline body continuous with the overlying cuticle They have a structure intermediate between the eyes of Patella and Trochus and are innervated by fibers from the cerebral ganglia.
Pelseneer considers that this type of eye and that of the chitons are homologous.
This assumption must rest entirely upon the fact that both are posttrochal.
They certainly are fundamentally different in structure.
Even with Chiton polii this is the case and furthermore this organ in the lamellibranchs is innervated by nerves from the cerebral ganglia and in the chitons by the pallial nerves.
Thiele's contention that the eye of Area noce and the chiton eye are homologous rests upon the same foundation as Pelseneer's argument.
Both are behind the velum but fundamentally different structurally and in their innervation.
As the matter now stands the theory that the chiton and the annelid eye are homologous rests upon identity of structure  while the chiton and lamellibranch larval eye are supposed to be genetically related because of similarity of position.
It is improbable that the eyes of chitons are functional only in the larvae.
In the three species studied before the metamorphosis the pigment appears about twentyfour hours prior to the freeswimming stage which lasts from fifteen minutes to twentyfour hours according to conditions.
After the metamorphosis which ensues after the embryos have settled these sense organs in at least eight species invariably persist for a considerable length of time.
In fact they appear to remain as long as the shell and mantle are sufficiently transparent to allow the light to penetrate or until the animal is upward of 5 mm.
in length.
Some of the smaller species are at this time sexually mature while some of the larger forms are only onefourth or even onetenth their adult size.
 Les yeux cephaliques cliez les Lamellibranches Arch de Biol. T. 16.
 Ueber Sinnesorgane der Seitenlinie und das Nervensystem von Mollusken Zeit.
f. IV.
Zool Bd.
XLIX.
March 15.
The President Samuel G. Dixox I.D. in the Chan.
Eighteen persons present.
The death of William M. Canby a member Iarch 10 1904 was announced.
The Publication Committee reported that a paper entitled A Revision of the Mammalian Genus Macrotus.
by James A. G. Rehn iiad been presented for publication March 11.
James A. Nelson Ph.D. made a communication on the lifehistory structure and relationships of Dinophilus a primitive annelid worm.
It was presented for pubhcation under the title The Early Development of Dinophilus A Study in CellLineage.
Henry Tucker and Waldemar Lee were elected members.
The following was ordered to be printed
