REMARKS ON PROF. CHAMBERLIN'S REVISION OF NORTH AMERICAN LYCOSID.E.
BY THOMAS H. MONTGOMERY JR.
In Part II of Volume LX of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 1908 Prof. R. V. Chamberlin has a memoir entitled a Revision of North American Spiders of the Family Lycosidffi.
This paper is one of decided importance in introducing generic characters based upon the structure of the copulatory organs and in presenting detailed descriptions of the species.
But it is only fair to my antecedent studies on the same group that I should make certain brief criticisms lest later students might consider Prof. Chamberlin's paper as finally conclusive and authoritative.
In my Description of North American Araneae of the Famihes Lycosidae and Pisauridse Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1904 I recognized among other valid species twenty that had been described and named by me whereby I relegated to the synonymy certain few species that I had described as new in two preceding papers.
Of these twenty species of which I am the author Prof. Chamberlin regards only two worthy of recognition under the names I had given them to which treatment I would enter the following partial criticism 1 Prof. Chamberlin fails to mention at all two of my species Lycosa mccooki and Trochosa contestata
2 He places my Trochosa noctuabunda as a questionable synonym of his Allocosa degesta but if these species are identical my name should have the priority.
3 He makes my Lycosa antelucana a synonym of L. apicata Banks  but my description was published in March and that of Banks not until June 1904 hence the name antelucana has the priority.
4 He enters five of my species as synonyms of four of those of Hentz by resuscitating Hentz's Lycosa saltatrix fativera milvina and funerea.
For each of the first two of these species Hentz gave a fourfine description for milvina a fiveline and for funerea only three lines and his figures are lacking in all necessary details.
In 1904 I had written At the present time it is practically impossible to identify most of the species of Walckenaer Blackwall Hentz and some others because some of their species are so insufficiently described that a particular description applies equally well to a number of species.
Thus Prof. Chamberlin makes it seems to me and I take no unusual stand a grave mistake in resuscitating these and certain other names of Hentz for the descriptions are practically valueless the figures in many cases of little more importance and nothing but uncertainty is to be gained by replacing names based upon detailed descriptions with ones founded upon inadequate diagnoses unsupported by type specimens.
Then Prof. Chamberlin places my Lycosa relucens and L. charonoides as synonyms' of saltatrix Hentz though these species of mine differ in important structural characters  and similarly he classes my Pardosa scita that is clearly separable from P. nigropalpis Emerton with the latter as synonyms of Lycosa milvina Hentz.
5 Prof. Chamberlin subjugates my Pardosa mercurialis to lapidiana Emerton though these differ in proportion of the legs and in the genital armature.
Then he places my Geolycosa texana under Lycosa carolinensis Hentz though these exliibit a marked difference in the eyes of the anterior row.
Further he brings my Lycosa euepigynata L. insopita and Trochosa purcelli all under Lycosa gulosa Walckenaer though Walckenaer in his brief sevenHne description states only the color and a few details concerning the eyes and though I had shown that Lycosa insopita comes closest to L. euepigynata but differs from it in slightly shorter relative length of the legs in greater relative width of the cephalothorax in insopita less than onequarter longer than broad in euepigynata decidedly more than onequarter in the dark coloration of the venter and in the structure of the genitalia.
It differs also from L. purcelli the epigynum of which is'very similar in the slightly greater relative length of the legs in greater size and markedly in the coloration.
6 Prof. Chamberlin has also withdrawn Geolycosa mihi of which Scaptocosa Banks is a synonym into Lycosa Latreille Yet Geolycosa differs markedly from any true Lycosa in the size and length of the first legs and in their possession of thick scopulse.
Had I the time to do so I believe I could satisfactorily reestablish all of my species that Prof. Chamberlin has tried to disestablish.
He has not seen any of the type specimens in my private collection though I would gladly have given him access to them had I known he was preparing a revision.
His revision needs a considerable amount of emendation.
What we should all of us do in such matters is not to work apart but in cooperation and this is almost essential for progress in systematic studies.
When the time has come for a taxonomic revision of any group those who have contributed most to the subject should bring their collections together in one place and there they should institute their comparisons conjointly.
I stated in my memoir of 1904 This paper is by no means a comprehensive monograph but is intended to be a help to the one who comes later with sufficient material at his disposal to make the monograph.
The main deficiency in Prof. Chamberlin's revision seems to have been insufficient type material.
December 1.
Arthur Erwix Brown VicePresident in the Chair.
Ninetyseven persons present.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been presented for publication Synopsis of the Cyprinidse of Pennsylvania.
By Henry W Fowler November 30.
On the Meloidse of Angola.
By F. Creighton Wellman M.D.
December 1.
On a New Species of Diatom of the Genus Cymatopleura. 
By Charles S. Boyer December 1.
Dr. F. Creighton Wellman made a communication on the natural history of West Africa.
No abstract.
December 15.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. in the Chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
 The reception of papers under the following titles was announced by the Publication Committee Notes on Polinices didyma with Description of a new Australian Species.
By H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta December 5.
On the Teeth of Hawaiian Species of Helicina. 
By H. A. Pilsbry and C Montague Cooke December 5. 
Clausiliidse of the Japanese Empire XII.
ByHenry A. Pilsbry December 10.
New Land MoUusca of the Japanese Empire.
By H. A. Pilsbry and G. Hirase December 11.
The following were ordered to be printed  A SYNOPSIS OF THE CYPRINID OF PENNSYLVANIA.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
Though my studies on our local fishes began in 1897 and have since continued I have not paid especial attention to the Cyprinidae till recently.
The more or less complete collections made in that time in the southeastern portion of the State at least have made it possible for me to give some study to the individual variation of certain characters in detail and to local distribution.
The results are introduced in the present paper together with notes and redescriptions of typical specimens of species described from within the prescribed limits.
The examination of the mass of material which in the cases of the common forms usually consists of large series of hundreds of specimens has enabled me to present a fairly accurate summary.
As so many of our western streams are polluted or becoming so the fishfauna will probably soon be largely if not wholly exterminated especially in the larger basins.
I have found this condition to exist in a number of streams of lesser size.
This is all the more unfortunate for our present purpose as the greater variety of forms is found in these larger streams or about them the mountainbrooks usually being noteworthy for their paucity of species.
The first complete account of our Cyprinidas was Cope's elaborate memoir published many years ago. Though exhaustive so far as his material and observations would permit at the time the work is veiy incomplete besides being encumbered by various notes descriptions and discussions more or less irrelevant.
It is however of great value not only in making known a number of new forms and as a contribution to systematic ichthyology but in discussing the distribution and to some extent the habits of the various species.
Previous to this work all the accounts or records of the CyprinidsB of Pennsylvania were to be found in a few scattered papers.
Later in Cope's account of the fishfauna of the State a work intended more as  Synopsis of the Cypriiiidae of Pennsylvania Tr.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XIII n. s. 1869 pp.
351399 Pis.
1013.
2 The Fishes of Pennsylvania Rep. State Comm.
Fish. 187980 1881 pp.
59145 figs.
144. a semipopular descriptive catalogue the Cyprinidse are again treated as a whole.
Bean then gives a largely compiled account of the same nature introducing also several hypothetical species.
These latter I have placed in footnotes in the present paper.
The contribution by Evermann and BoUman on the Monongahela fishes is especially valuable in furnishing us with an account of a basin which is now much polluted.
Finally in a recent paper I have mentioned a number of localities where much of my own material was obtained and thus mapped out the local distribution of some species.
I have not recorded any examinations of the stomachs of some of the species leaving the details to be incorporated in future work.
Little attention is therefore given here to the food of the different forms.
The introduced species such as the carp and gold fish are not treated in this paper.
In explanation of the squamation formulas it may be said that the median lateral longitudinal count of scales is in the lateral line when present to the base of the caudal fin and that the few on the latter to be added are signified by the interpolated plus mark.
Above the lateral line the scales are counted obliquely down from the origin of the dorsal fin posteriorly and below obliquely up from the origin of the anal fin forward.
Acknowledgment is here made to those who have so kindly assisted me in securing material used in this work their names being mentioned elsewhere in my local works.
All of the specimens used in the preparation of this paper are now contained in the Academy's collections.
Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3 to 5 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A. iii 6 i scales 43 to 55 h 2 to 4 usually 2 or 3 usually 7 scales above 1.
1. occasionally 8 usually 6 scales below 1.
1. occasionally 7 13 to 16 scales transversely from dorsal in young with incomplete 1.
1. 18 to 25 predorsal scales snout 2 to 3f in head eye 3 to 6 maxillary 3 to 4 interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 44.
Body stout moderately compressed predorsal gibbous in adult.
Snout moderately convex.
Scales crowded anteriorly.
Color brownish tinted oHve or green 3 The Fishes of Pennsvhania Rep. State Comm.
Fish. 188991 C1892 dd 1149 Pis.
135. 
V A 1 H Notes on a Collection of Fishes from the Monongahela River A7in N Y Acad.
ScL III 188385 1886 pp.
335340.
 Records of Pennsylvania Fishes Am.
Nat. XLI 1907 pp.
521. above.
Scales somewhat mottled.
Diisky vertical bar behind opercle.
Dusky crossbar on dorsal and anal other fins bright red in springmales olive in females.
Nearly entire upper surface of springmales tuberculous and iris golden.
Very variable young differ in appearance from adults.
Length If to 6inches.
Many examples from Beaver and Kiskiminitas Rivers Port Allegany McKean Co. and Newcastle Lawrence Co..
Found in the more quiet waters of our streams frequently in small runs and the deeper pools.
It feeds on the bottom frequently associated with other small fishes and is rather sluggish though active if disturbed.
I have not found it in the small colder mountain brooks.
In the spring it ascends small brooks to spawn.
I have found it sometimes infested with a fungus appearing as a white fluffy growth in which cases the fish appears sickly or stupid.
Not being very hardy it is of little use as bait.
It reaches a length of 8 inches and is little valued as a pan fish.
In our limits it is distributed only west of the Alleghanies.
Chrosomus erythrogaster Rafinesque.
Head 3 depth 4 D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales about 88  4 28 scales transversely from dorsal to ventral origin 40 predorsal scales snout 3f in head eye 3 maxillary 3f  interorbital 3.
Body compressed fusiform deepest medianly.
Head compressed rather tapering.
Eye rounded about first third in head.
Mouth moderate oblique terminal.
Jaws about equal.
Iaxillary to eye.
Rakers about 2 f7 short stumps.
L. 1. short scarcely beyond middle of pectoral.
Dorsal origin about midway between front eye margin and caudal base.
Anal little behind dorsal base.
Caudal emarginate lobes equal.
Pectoral almost to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal reaches vent.
Color olivebrown often with blackish spots and dusky dorsal line.
Sides silvery between 2 black lateral bands upper straight from upper opercle angle to caudal sometimes broken up behind and broader lower one curved down little to end in caudal black spot.
Belly silvery.
Length 1inches.
Kiskiminitas River.
This fish is only found west of the Alleghanies.
It reaches 3 inches in length and is a beautiful little minnow the spring males having the sides between the black bands belly and bases of the vertical fins scarlet the other fins orange and the body everywhere minutely tuberculate.
The females are plainly colored and usually with little if any red.
It is said to be very hardy and therefore attractive in the aquarium as well as desirable bait for bass and yellow perch.
It is also said to occur in clear cold brooks formed about springheads be very active and not very abundant anywhere.
The above example obtained by Cope is the only one I have from our limits.
Chrosomus erythrogaster eos Cope.
C. eos Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1861 p. 523.
Meshoppen Creek Susquehanna Co. Head 3f depth 4f D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i P. i 15
 V. i 8 scales 80
 5
 24
scales transversely from dorsal to middle of belly 50
predorsal scales head width 2 its length head depth If mandible 2f  first branched dorsal ray If anal ray If upper caudal lobe 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  pectoral If ventral 1 snout 4i in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 maxillary 3f  interorbital 3.
Body elongate compressed edges convex profiles apparent
 about evenly fusiform deepest midway in length.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth about 1 its length.
Head moderate robust compressed above rather broadly convex lower profile more inclined convexly.
Snout surface broadly convex length about f width.
Eye large circular about first f in head.
Mouth well inclined oblique gape curved closed mandible slightly protruding.
Maxillary narrow mostly concealed by preorbital exposed end almost to eye.
Mouth moderately small jaw edges rather blunt and not especially hard.
Lips thin.
Tongue thick fleshy rounded scarcely free.
Nostrils together on snout above about last third its length posterior larger anterior with cutaneous rim.
Interorbital broad slightly evenly convex.
Preorbital width about f its length latter 1 in eye lower margin convex.
Lower posterior preopercle corner rather evenly convex.
Gillopening last f of head.
Rakers reduced short small fleshy points.
Filaments about j of eye.
Pseud obranchiae little shorter than filaments.
Teeth 55 elongate compressed tips hooked grindingsurfaces narrow.
Scales small cycloid in nearly even horizontal series considerably smaller along dorsal and ventral body edges.
Scales on caudal base little reduced.
L. 1. incomplete on flrst few scales curving down little below middle of side.
Tubes simple persisting to each scale edge.
Dorsal origin about inidway between hind eye margin and caudal base first branched ray highest last about f of first.
Anal inserted about midway between pectoral medianly and caudal base just behind dorsal base first branched ray highest fin rounded like dorsal.
Caudal emarginate pointed lobes about equal.
Pectoral pointed upper rays longest f to ventral.
Ventral inserted little before dorsal origin or about midway between front eye margin and caudal base reaching vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol faded dull or pale brownish belly and below slightly silverywhite.
Faint trace of dark streak from eye to caudal base another from upper side of head back to upper caudal peduncle surface hardly evident fading out behind though possibly joining lower
Fins all faded pale whitish.
Iris leadenwhite.
Length about 2 inches caudal slightly damaged.
No.
22116 A. N. S. P. cotype type of C. eos Cope.
reshoppen Creek Susquehanna Co. Cope.
Also Nos.
22 117 and 22 118 same data shoTving Head 3f depth 4f to 4f 
 D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 76 to 82  5 26 scales transversely snout 3 to 4 in head eye 3 to 31 maxillar 3 to 3 interorbital 3 to 3 teeth 55 length If to lf inches.
This fish is only known to me from the above examples though Cope mentions 4 all of which were taken in September of 1861.
Nothing is known of the species aside from Cope's short description.
Hybognathua nuchalis Agassiz.
Recorded by Cope.
Occurs west of the Alleghanies.
I have no examples.
HybognathuB nuchalis argyritis Girard.
H. nuchalis Fowler Ain.
Nat. XLI 1907 p. 8.
Kiskiminitas R CNot of Ag.
Head 3 to 4 depth 4 to 4 D. iii 7 i A. iii 6 i scales 37 to 42  2 7 scales above 1.
1. 4 or 5 scales below 1.
1. 23 predorsal scales snout 3 to 3f in head eye 2f to 3 maxillary 3 to 3f  interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 44.
Body moderately compressed somewhat fusiform.
Head rather short.
Snout broadly convex.
Eye little elongate rather large.
Mouth rather wide.
Maxillary to eye.
Preorbital broad width f its length.
Rakers 2  7
short weak points.
L. 1. median.
Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base.
Anal behind dorsal base.
Caudal apparently little emarginated.
Pectoral about f to ventral latter inserted trifle before dorsal reaching f to vent.
Color largely silvery.
Length 1 to 2 inches.
Four examples from the Kiskiminitas R. Cope.
This fish is closely related to H. nuchalis with which I recently confused it but differs apparently in the much larger maxillary.
It occurs west of the Alleghanies and is said to attain a length of 4 inches.
Hybognathus nuchalis regius Girard.
Head 4 to 4 depth 3 to 4f  D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i rarely iii.
6 i scales 34 to 40 usually 36 to 39  usually 2 occasionally 3 rarely 1  6 scales above 1.
1.  usually 4 scales occasionally 5 below 1.
1. 14 to 18 predorsal scales snout 3to 4 in head eye 3 to 4 maxillary 3to 4 interorbital 2f to 3 teeth 44.
Body compressed somewhat slender.
Head short blunt.
Snout blunt broad convex.
Eye small.
Mouth small.
Maxillary not quite to eye.
Preorbital moderate width about 2 its length.
Rakers 4  7
short weak points tips sometimes bifurcate.
L. 1. median.
Dorsal origin little nearer snout tip than caudal base.
Caudal rather broad forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral about f to ventral latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin and f to anal.
Color largely silvery pale olive above.
Fins pale.
Iris silvery.
Length 2yV to 4f inches.
Many examples from the Delaware R. at Holmesburg Philadelphia Co. Bristol and Hulmeville Bucks Co..
This handsome fish is very abundant in the lower or tidal region of the Delaware and its larger tributaries.
I have not yet found it in the Susquehanna.
Though usually brilliant silverywhite in life brassytinted individuals are often met with.
It attains a larger size than any of the related forms and is said to reach 9 inches in length.
It may be of some use as a pan fish frequently varying the luck of perch fishermen as it readily takes the hook.
It seems to prefer the still tidal waters of our open rivers and creeks and is frequently found in shoals about sand bars and in little bays or guts frequently associated with killies or other small fishes.
The sexes are alike and without tubercles or brilliant variegated pigment.
Pimephales promelas Rafinesque.
Head 3 depth 3f D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 42  2 12 tubes forming 1.
1. then skipping 3 scales then tube then skipping 2 scales and tube at caudal base 9 scales above 1.
1. 5 scales below 1.
1. 23 predorsal scales snout 3 in head eye 4 maxiUary 4f  interorbital 2 teeth 44.
Body deep well compressed rather short.
Head robust convex.
Snout broad.
Eye circular.
Mouth small low.
Maxillary to front nostril oblique.
Rakers 4  11 short weak points some ends little bifurcated.
Scales rather narrowly imbricated.
Dorsal origin midway between front eye margin and caudal base second simple ray detached from third.
Anal little behind dorsal base.
Caudal emarginate equal lobes rounded.
Pectoral f to ventral latter httle before dorsal and reaching vent.
Color olivebrown scale edges dusky.
Head duskyblack opercle edge creamybrown.
Iris graywhite.
Dorsal gray second simple ray pale others medianly largely duskygray anterior ones blackish.
Caudal and pectoral grayish other fiiis whitish.
Several large tubercles on muzzle.
Length 2y inches.
One example from Port Allegany McKean Co. on June 2d 1906 Keim and Fowler.
The above is the only example I have secured from our limits.
Tliis fish prefers sluggish brooks or pools and varies greatly with season age or sex.
The head is almost globular in adult males.
It is interesting in the aquarium.
It feeds on green algse and mud and is sometimes met with in muddy pools.
Only reaching a length of 3 inches it is of no use as a pan fish.
Found west of the Alleghanies.
Pimephales notatus Rafinesque.
Head 3 to 4f  depth 4 to 5 D. iii 7 i A. iii 6 i scales 37 to 45  usually 2 seldom 3 rarely 1 usually 7 scales sometimes 6 above 1.
1. usually 4 or 5 scales rarely 3 below 1.
1. 20 to 30 predorsal scales usually 22 to 26 snout 3 to 3f in head eye 2 to 4 interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 44.
Body somewhat elongate moderately compressed.
Head robust convex.
Snout blunt convex.
Eye circular.
Mouth small low.
MaxiUary to hind nostril.
Rakers about 4  7 short weak points.
Scales narrowly imbricated.
L. 1. complete in adult.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base second simple ray detached from third.
Anal behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked lobes rounded.
Pectoral f to ventral latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin and reaching first branched anal ray base.
Color olivaceous.
Head blackish gillopening edged buff in spring males otherwise buff.
Iris black and bronze.
Pale dusky lateral diffuse band.
Dorsal brownish edge whitish base blackish.
Caudal dull olive other fins paler.
Large tubercles on muzzle of spring males.
Length ly to 3yV inches.
Many examples from the Kiskiminitas R.  Cole Grove and Port Allegany McKean Co. York Furnace York Co. Foxburg Clarion Co. Erie Erie Co..
Closel' resembling the preceding especially when young but distinguished by its more inferior mouth rather more slender body and slightly protruding blunt snout.
The 1 1. is variable though absent in the young of both species it soon appears in the present.
It is found in most of our western streams though extending into the Susquehanna and thus farther east than the last.
I have not found it in the Delaware.
It prefers quiet streams and pools often when muddy and associates with other small fishes.
It is variable in color spring males being strikingly colored though otherwise both sexes are pale olive with a dark blackish lateral band ending in a llack caudal spot.
A good bait minnoAV as it is active and tenacious reaching 4 inches in length.
Semotilus buUaris Rafinesque.
Squalius hyalope Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1S64 p. 280.
Conestoga Creek Lancaster Co. Head 3f  depth 4 D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 44  3 7 scales above 1.
1. 6 scales below 1.
1. 20 predorsal scales snout 83in head ye Sf maxillary 3 interorbital 2 pectoral 1 ventral If least depth caudal peduncle 2 teeth 2 54 2.
Body little elongate compressed.
Head large rather conic compressed.
Snout convex length about I its width slightly protruding.
Eye little ellipsoid high trifle anterior.
Maxillary to eye.
No barbel.
Interorbital broad nearly flat.
Rakers 3  5 short weak obsolete denticles.
Scales striate predorsal but little smaller.
L. 1. complete slightly decurved.
Dorsal inserted nearer caudal base than snout tip.
Anal inserted about midway between pectoral tip and caudal base.
Pectoral about f to ventral latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin reaches vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol dull brownish sides and below paler to whitish with silvery traces.
Iris brassy.
Length 3 inches.
No.
4882 A. N. S. P. cotype type of S. hyalope Cope.
Conestoga Creek Lancaster Co. Stauffer.
From Cope.
Nos.
4883 to 4886 same data.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3f to 5 D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 40 to 49 usually 41 to 47  2 or 3 usually 8 occasionally 7 seldom 9 scales above 1.
1. usually 6 scales frequently 5 rarely 4 or 7 below 1.
1. usually 21 predorsal scales frequently 20 or 22 often 19 or 23 seldom 24 and rarely 18 or 25 snout 2f to 3 in head eye 2f to 6 maxillary 2 to 3 teeth 2 54 2 occasionally 2 44 2 rarely 2 55 2 or 2 53 2 or 1 54 2.
Body robust compressed.
Head compressed convex.
Snout convex about broad as long.
Eye round high.
Mouth large nearly horizontal.
Mandible included.
Jaws heavy.
Maxillary nearly to eye with short barbel above near end latter absent in most young.
Rakers 3  4 short weak denticles.
Scales large well exposed.
Dorsal origin little nearer caudal base than snout tip.
Anal behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral about I to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal reaches about I to anal.
Color largely silverywhite below bluish and olive on back.
Spring males brilliant vermilion on sides of head and body lower fins and dorsal base iris orange and front of head tuberculate.
Length If to 15 inches.
A very large series of all ages from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square Willistown Barrens Crum Creek 2 miles east of White Horse Ring's Run Chester Co. Markam near Wawa Collar Brook Delaware Co. Holmesburg Torresdale Philadelphia Co. Cornwells near Langhorne Bucks Co. Delaware Water Gap Monroe Co. Dingmann's Ferry Pike Co. Susquehanna R. basin in the Conestoga Creek Lancaster Co. Emporium Cameron Co..
This is the largest and gamiest member of the family in our limits.
It occurs only east of the Alleghanies or in our Atlantic basin seemingly more abundant in the Delaware than in the Susquehanna.
It is a vigorous fish reaching about 18 inches in length.
It often occurs about rapids and falls from which it has earned the name of fall fish.
Tlie large ones occur in the rivers or other large bodies of water though small ones are mature when only a few inches long and found living in small brooks.
It is a very variable species especially as to age sex or season.
Small adults resemble the young of large adults being silvery with a dark lateral stripe the latter fading out with age.
It is omnivorous and is often abundant about mouths of sewers with suckers.
It will take most bait also the fly and may be taken by trolling.
It is usually angled in the summer though often bites well in the fall.
One often sees Thoreau quoted that ''the chub is a soft fish and tastes hke brown paper salted which is not altogether true as it is often a very acceptable pan fish and perhaps not possessing the qualities of flavor of some of our other fishes is not always to be compared to salted brown paper.
It must be eaten when fresh and is then very good.
It is said to spawn in the spring in quiet shallow places accumulating large patches of gravel or pebbles the socalled nests.
Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchill.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3f 
to 5i
 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A iii 7 I rarely iii 8 i scales 49 to 61 usually 50 to 58  2 to 4 usually 3 9 to 12 scales above 1.
1. usually 10 frequently 11 otherwise rarely 5 to 8 scales below 1.
1. usually 6 frequently 7 otherwise rarely 27 to 38 predorsal scales usually 30 to 34 snout 3 to 3in head eye 3 to 7f  maxillary 2 to 3 teeth 2 54 2 occasionally 2 44 2 rarely 2 66 2 or 2 55 2 or 2 3 25 2 or 2 53 4 5 or 2 5 34 3 2 or 3 44 2 Body robust forward compressed.
Head robust broad obtusely conic heavy.
Snout broad convex length f its width.
Eye round rather high.
Mouth broad rather large little inclined.
Mandible included.
Jaws heavy.
Maxillary about to eye with short barbel above near end latter absent in young.
Rakers 2  6 short weak points.
Scales small crowded and smaller anteriorly.
Dorsal origin about midway between front pupil margin and caudal base.
Anal behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral about f to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal and reaching about f to anal.
Color duskyoUve above.
Dull diffuse band of same laterally usually ending 34 in blackish spot at caudal base especially in young.
Below silverywhite rosyred in spring males.
Dusky bar behind opercle.
Iris orange and yellow.
Black spot at dorsal base in front margined orangered.
Dorsal and caudal pale olive other fins with vermilion in spring males.
Several large tubercles on snout and front of spring males.
Length If to 8 inches.
A very large series from the Delaware R. basin in the Schuylkill R.  Cobb's Creek Collar Brook Fawkes Run first brook above Whetstone Run Delaware Co. Philadelphia Susquehanna R. basin at Emporium Cameron Co. Muncy Lycoming Co. Octoraro Creek at Nottingham Chester Co. near Ephrata Denver and Swamp Bridge Lancaster Co. Genesee R. basin at Gold and Raymonds Potter Co.  Youghiogheny R. Meadow Run Fayette Co.  Kiskiminitas R.  Beaver R.  Allegheny R. basin at Warren Warren Co. Port Allegany McKean Co..
This chub is found everywhere in our limits more or less abundant
 not only in the larger streams but very often in the small clear mountain brooks where it often associates with Rhinichthys atronasus.
It is very voracious and will eagerly take a hook with most baits or even a fly.
Reaching a length of about 10 inches it is said to be a fair pan fish.
It is also used as bait.
The young differ considerably from the adult in the blackish lateral band.
I have found this fish especially abundant in cold rapid trout streams such as those in the upper Allegheny valley.
It is said to spawn in the spring or early summer constructing the nests about riffles or coarse gravel bars.
Leuciacus vandoisulus Valenciennes.
Head 3f to 4 depth 3 to 4 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A. iii 8 I occasionally iii 7 i scales 44 to 52 usually about 48  2 or 3 usually 2 usually 10 scales seldom 9 or 11 above 1.
1. usually 6 scales frequently 5 below 1.
1.  21 to 28 usually about 24 predorsal scales snout 3 to 3in head eye 2 to 3 maxiflary 2 to 2J teeth 2 54 2.
Body compressed deep.
Head compressed.
Snout convex.
Eye round high.
Mouth large well inclined mandible protruding.
MaxiUary to pupil.
Rakers 2 h 5 short denticles.
Scales well exposed.
L. 1. well decurved complete.
Dorsal origin midway between front eye margin and caudal base.
Anal inserted below last dorsal ray.
Caudal deeply forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral reaching little beyond ventral latter inserted well before dorsal origin and reaches anal.
Color olivaceous above each scale margined dusky and sides finely punctate with dusky.
Leaden streak from snout and shoulder back opposite ventral bounded below on trunk by streak of bright orangered.
Below white.
Dorsal and caudal dull olivaceous other fins pale.
Iris brownish with golden ring.
Head above minutely tuberculate.
Young nearly plaincolored and females usually without tubercles.
Length If to SfV inches.
Many examples from the Susquehanna R. basin in tributaries of the Octoraro Creek and the headwaters of the North East Creek North East R. basin near Nottingham Chester Co..
This little minnow is found in small streams of clear water usually about pools and often associated with other small fishes.
It is said to reach 5 inches in length.
The males are very gaudy in spring dress which some attain when half grown.
It occurs only in our Atlantic basin and though I found it in the lower Susquehanna valley have not yet met with it in the Delaware where however it has been recorded by Cope.
Leuoisous elongatus Kirtland.
Head 3 to 4 depth 41 to 5 D. iii 7 i A. iii 8 i seldom iii.
7 I rarely iii 9 i  scales 60 to 75 usually about 60 to 69  usually 2 frequently 3 rarely 4 usually 13 scales frequently 12 seldom 11. rarely 14 above 1.
1. usually 7 scales frequently 8 below 1.
1. 25 to38 usually 28 to 35 predorsal scales snout 3to 3f in head eye 2f to 41 maxillary 2yV to 2  teeth 2 54 2 frequently 2 44 2.
Body compressed elongate.
Head compressed rather pointed.
Snout convex.
Eye round high.
Mouth large well inclined mandible protruding.
Maxillary trifle beyond pupil front.
Rakers about 2  5 short points.
Scales small about uniform.
L. 1. little decurved complete in adult incomplete or absent in young.
Dorsal origin little nearer caudal base than snout tip.
Anal httle behind dorsal base.
Caudal emarginate.
Pectoral  to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal origin and fin f to anal.
Color olivaceous above scales mottled darker.
Lateral band of blackish first half bright red in spring males.
Below silverywhite.
Lower fins reddened in spring males.
Dark median dorsal streak.
Iris silvery dark lateral band passing through.
Length 1 to 3f inches.
Many examples from the Allegheny R. basin at Cole Grove and Port Allegany McKean Co..
Resembles the preceding.
Found only in the clear mountain streams west of the Alleghanies usually associated with other small fishes.
Said to reach 5 inches and be a good bait minnow.
Leuoisous margarita Cope.
Clinostomus margarita Cope Trans.
Am.
Philos.
Soc.
Pliila. 2 XIII 1869 p. 377 fig.
teeth PI.
13 fig.
1.
The Conestoga near Lancaster. '
Head 4 depth 4 D. evidently iii
7 i damaged A. iii 
7
damaged P. i 10
 scales about 58 to caudal base 1.
1. formed of about 35 distinct tubes anteriorly 11 scales above 1.
1. 7 scales below 1.
1. 31 predorsal scales head width 1 its length head depth at occiput 1 mandible about 2 dorsal base about 2 least depth caudal peduncle 2 snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 interorbital 2f  maxillary SyVBody moderately elongate well compressed edges rounded deepest near dorsal origin and upper profile apparently more evenly convex anteriorly than lower.
Caudal compressed rather deep least depth about If its length.
Head moderately small robust compressed little broad above and becoming slightly constricted below.
Profiles similarly inclined upper little more convex anteriorly than lower.
Snout convex length about  its width.
Eye circular large high placed about first Y in head.
Mouth small well inclined gape nearly straight in profile.
Mandible protruding rather shallowly convex rami well elevated inside mouth.
Maxillary mostly concealed robust well inclined end past eye front not quite to pupil.
Jaw edges firm.
Lips thin evidently little developed.
Tongue rather thick fleshy not free.
Nostrils lateral on snout above near eye anterior with cutaneous margin posterior larger in crescent.
Interorbital rather broadly convex.
Preorbital large trapezoidal width about f its length latter about 1J in eye.
Other suborbitals narrow.
Preopercle margin inclined forward angle rather broadly convex.
Gillopening about to middle of head.
Rakers 2  4
short weak points about 4 in filaments latter f of eye.
Pseud obranchise rather large.
Teeth 2 54 2 hooked slender compressed without evident grinding surfaces.
Scales rather small adherent mostly uniform in series parallel with 1.
1.
Predorsal scales small Httle crowded.
Breast scales still smaller.
L. 1. apparently complete first slightly decurved ascending median caudal peduncle side.
Tubes simple well exposed though posterior rather indistinct.
Dorsal origin about midway between front eye margin and caudal base fin moderately high first branched damaged rays longest.
Anal origin about opposite last dorsal ray base or about midway between caudal base and depressed pectoral tip.
Caudal damaged.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol above dull brownish generally sides and below pale or whitish with shining mercury tints.
Sides uniform in color and sprinkled all over with minute brownish dots or specks.
Fins plain or pale brownish.
Iris brassy.
Length If inches caudal nearly absent.
No.
5320 A. N. S. P. cotype of C. margarita Cope.
A tributary of the Conestoga near Lancaster Cope.
Also No.
5321 same data.
Though this example is larger it is broken in pieces and mostly macerated.
As it agrees in having the last few tubes in the scales of the 1.
1. discontinued before the caudal base it was probably largely the basis of the original description.
I only have the above material of Cope.
He says it is bright crimson below during midsummer and that it was found in a stream inhabited by Rhinichthys and Semotilus.
It has not yet been taken out of the Susquehanna basin in our limits.
Abrainis crysoleucas Mitchill.
Head 3fto4f  depth 2 to 4 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 6 i or iii 8 i once abnormally iii 74  A. usually iii 12 i or iii 13 i occasionally iii 14 I rarely iii 10 i or 11 i or iii 15 i once abnormally iii 82 scales usually 40 to 45 mostly 41 to 43 often 38 39 or 46 seldom 47 rarely 48 or 50  usually 2 or 3 rarely 1 or 4 usually 11 scales often 10 frequently 12 rarely 9 or 13 above 1.
1. usually 4 scales frequently 5 rarely 3 below 1.
1. usually 15 scales frequently 14 or 16 rarely 17 transversely from dorsal origin in young usually 23 frequently 21 to 25 often 20 27 or 28 seldom 29 and rarely 16 17 18 19 or 30 predorsal scales snout 3to 4 in head eye 2 to 4J maxillary 3 to 4f  interorbital 2 to' 3 teeth 55 occasionally 54 rarely 45 or 75 or 65 or 55 2 or 1 44 2 Body well compressed postventral trenchant.
Head compressed upper profile slightly concave.
Snout broadly convex length  its width.
Eye circular.
Mouth small obhque mandible scarcely protruding.
Maxillary not quite to eye.
Rakers about 5  11 firm compressed points.
Scales narrowly imbricated.
L. 1. greatly decurved complete in adult incomplete in young.
Dorsal origin midway between hind eye margin and caudal base.
Anal trifle behind dorsal base.
Caudal widely forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral to ventral latter inserted well before dorsal fin f to anal.
Color bluisholive above whitish below.
Sides often with bright deep bluish or golden reflections.
Dorsal and caudal like back lower fins yellowishvermilion in spring males.
Iris silvery liength If to 5 inches.
Very many examples from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square Ring's Run and Willistown Barrens Chester Co.  Chadd's Ford Hunter's Run Collingdale Delaware Co. Holmesburg Bustleton Philadelphia Co. Cornwells Hulmeville near Langhorne Neshaminy Falls Bristol Emilie Tullytown Scott's Creek Yardley Bucks Co. Hatboro Montgomery Co. Dingman's Ferry Pike Co. Susquehanna R. basin at York Furnace York Co. Nottingham Chester Co. near Denver and Witmer's Mills Lancaster Co. Lopez Sullivan Co. Lake Erie at Erie Erie Co..
This is one of our most abundant species.
It occurs in all our waters and is sometimes found in large schools of thousands of individuals in the Delaware tidewater.
It is especially characteristic of pools ponds cutoffs in shallow or weedy places and in still water.
It readily takes the hook and though sometimes reaching a foot in length is not considered much of a game fish.
As a pan fish it is fair.
It is not much in demand for bait as it is not very hardy though its bright color is an advantage as a lure.
Variation is quite noticeable and in color often extremes of bluish and golden are found.
It is very gregarious and the large schools of shiners one so often sees along the shores of our creeks and quiet streams are frequently made up of this fish though it often associates with other species.
The young are quite different in color from the adult having a black lateral band which disappears after they have grown several inches.
Ceratichthys vigilax Baird and Guard.
Known to me only from Evermann and Bollman's record from the Monongahela River.
Notropis bifrenatus Cope.
Head 3 to 4 depth Sf to 5 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 6 i A. iii 6 I rarely iii 7 i scales usually 33 frequently 32 or 34 often 30 31 or 35 seldom 29 and rarely 36  usually 2 often 3 seldom 1  usually 11 scales transversely from dorsal origin to ventral frequently 12 seldom 10 rarely 13 usually 6 scales above 1.
1. frequently 5 usually 4 scales below 1.
1. rarely 5 usually 12 frequently 13 often 11 and 14 seldom 10 rarely 15 predorsal scales snout 3to 4in head eye 2 to 3  maxillar'3 to 4 interorbital 2 to 3  teeth 44 rarely 43.
Body rather compact caudal peduncle little constricted.
Head moderate.
Muzzle obtuse.
Eye circular high.
Mouth oblique.
Jaws even.
Rakers 2  5 weak points.
Scales well exposed.
L. 1. incomplete usually only of about 11 tubes anteriorly.
Dorsal origin nearer snout tip than caudal base.
Anal just behind dorsal base.
Caudal long forked lobes rather pointed.
Pectoral not to ventral.
Ventral inserted about opposite dorsal origin and reaching trifle beyond anal.
Color pale strawbrown scales on back brownedged.
Shining black band with bluish tinge from snout to caudal base including mandible edge.
Orange band above this on snout in spring males.
Below silvery.
Fins pale.
Length lyV to 2j inches.
Many examples  from Ring's Run and Black Horse Rim Chester Co. CoUingdale Delaware Co. Holmesburg and Torresdale Philadelphia Co. Hatboro Montgomery Co.  Cornwells Hulmeville Neshaminy Falls Little Neshaminy Creek.
Bristol Emilie near Langhorne Scott's Creek Bucks Co. Susquehanna R. at York Furnace York Co..
This pretty little minnow may best be known from the other members of the genus by its incomplete lateral line.
It closely resembles N. procne but may be distinguished by this character.
It is usually found in clear and rather still waterin schools of moderate size and associated with other small fishes such as killies and roach.
They occur both in tidewater and above in the small creeks and runs and I have found them in the open rivers though along shore.
The sexes are colored alike though during the spawning season in May and June the gravid females are much deeperbodied.
The young do not differ much from the adults.
Altogether it is a weak little fish but quite attractive and said to be of use as bait.
I have met with it only in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna basins.
Cope's types of this species Hybopsis bifrenatus seem to be lost.
Notropis deliciosus Girard.
Recorded from the Monongahela R. as N. d. stramineus by Evermann and Bollman.
I have not seen any examples.
Notropis procne Cope.
Hyhognathus procne Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1864 p. 283.
The Conestoga.
Head 3f depth 4 D. iii 6 i A. iii 6 i P. i 13 V. i 7 scales 32  2 5 scales above 1.
1. 4 scales below 1.
1. 12 predorsal scales head width 1 its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 3 eye 2f  maxillary 3 interorbital 2 dorsal base 1 anal base 2 least depth caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongate well compressed profiles similarly fusiform or upper only slightly more convex deepest at dorsal origin edges convexly round.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth about 2its length.
Head moderate robust wider than trunk profiles about similar.
Snout obtuse convex length f its width.
Eye large high little longer than deep center near first f in head.
Mouth moderate iiiferiorly terminal.
Mandible slightly included rather shaUowly depressed rami slightly elevated inside mouth.
Lips thin.
Premaxillaries protractile down.
Maxillary very slightly beyond front eye margin.
Jaw edges rather firm trenchant.
Tongue thick fleshy adnate.
Nostrils large together on snout above near eye crescentic posterior larger.
Interorbital broad flat.
Preorbital width about If its length latter 1 in eye.
Infraorbital broadest of other narrow suborbitals.
Posterior preopercle margin nearly straight but slightly inclined forward.
GUIopening to hind pupil margin isthmus width at this point 2 in eye.
Rakers 2  4 short weak points much shorter than filaments latter 2 in eye.
Pseud obranchise large less than filaments.
Isthmus rather broadly depressed.
Teeth lost.
Scales moderately large series parallel with 1.
1. mostly uniform except smaller ones on caudal base with fine radiating striae.
L. 1. continuous first decurved slightly then about midway along caudal peduncle side.
Tubes simple each about f exposed scale.
Dorsal origin midway between caudal base and snout tip fin graduated down from first branched ray damaged and longest
Caudal damaged emarginate lobes equal
Pectoral f to ventral upper rays longest.
Ventral inserted little before dorsal origin not quite to vent.
Vent close to anal.
Color in alcohol faded mostly dull or pale brownish not darker above.
Edges of back scales slightly darker than groundcolor.
Head above brownish below paler or translucent sides washed silverywhite.
Entire side of body bright silverywhite with underlaid median lateral streak from shoulder to caudal base medianly.
From snout tip back over underlaid leaden streak dull brown band inconspicuous and narrower than vertical eye.
Iris pale silvery leaden lateral streak passing through.
Fins pale or plain dull brownish.
Length lyf inches caudal damaged.
No.
3152 A. N. S. P. cotype type of H. procne Cope.
Conestoga tributary of the Susquehanna Stauffer.
Also Nos.
3153 to 3162 same data.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3f to 5 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 6 i A. iii 6 I rarely iii 7 i or iii 5 i scales usually 33 frequently 32 often 34 occasionally 35 seldom 31 rarely 36  usually 2 occasionally 3 usually 6 scales occasionally 5 above 1.
1. 4 scales below 1.
1. 13 predorsal scales usually often 12 or 14 seldom 15 rarely 16 snout 3 to 4 in head eye 2f to 3 maxillary 3 to 3 interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 44 rarely 54.
Body elongate compressed rather slender caudal peduncle long constricted.
Head moderate.
Muzzle short.
Eye circular little high.
Mouth oblique.
Jaws even.
Rakers 2  5 short weak points.
Scales well exposed L. 1. complete little decurved at first.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base.
Anal inserted well behind dorsal base.
Caudal long forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral f to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal origin reaches vent.
Color above pale brownish.
Dark lateral band overlaid with grayish.
Median dark streak down back.
Sides and below silvered.
Fins pale brownish.
Iris silvery crossed by dark lateral band.
Length 1
to 2 inches.
Many examples including the above cotypes  from the North East Creek headwaters near Nottingham Chester Co.  Susquehanna R. basin in the Pequea Creek at Paradise and in the Cocalico Creek at Swamp Bridge Witmer's Mills and run near Blainsport Lancaster Co.  Delaware R. basin in Darby Creek at Collingdale Delaware Co.  Schuylkill R.  Holmesburg Philadelphia Co. Hulmeville above Newtown Neshaminy Falls Bucks Co. Abrams Montgomery Co..
This species is closely related to N. hijrenatus differing in the complete lateral line even in young an inch long.
It is found in clear streams or creeks not too rapid and usually about gravel bars where it associates in shoals with other species.
It prefers the more upland streams and I have not yet found it in tidewater.
The adult is a beautiful little fish averaging about 2 inches in length.
It is subject to some variation.
Though hardly brilliant in color it is handsome in certain lights the dark lateral band gleaming violet blue or greenish.
It probably spawns in late spring and early summer.
It is said to be excellent bait and good in the aquarium.
I have met with it only in the Susquehanna and Delaware basins.
Notropis keimi sp.
nov.
Plate XXVII.
N. cayuga Fowler Am.
Nat. XLI 1906 p. 595.
Megheny R. above Port Allegany McKean Co. Not of Meek.
Fowler I.e. XLI 1907 p. 10 copied.
Head 3f depth 4 D iii 6 i A. iii 7 i P. i 11 V. i 7 scales 37  about 3 5 scales above 1.
1. 3 scales below 1.
1. 15 predorsal scales head wddth 1 its length head depth as occiput If snout 3i eye 3f  maxillary 3 mandible 2f  interorbital 31 first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray If least depth caudal peduncle 3yV lower caudal lobe trifle longer than head about space equal to pupil diameter pectoral If ventral 1.
Body elongate slender compressed edges rather broadly convex profiles similarly tapering from greatest depth at dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle slender compressed least depth 2 its length.
Head rather large elongate compressed rather flattened sides not convergent below upper profile little more inclined than lower.
Muzzle obtuse.
Snout obtuse surface and profile convex length about f its width.
Eye large close to upper profile trifle before middle head length rather eUipsoid or trifle longer than deep.
Mouth inferior rather large jaws about even.
Maxillary large rather exposed to front eye margin scarcely beyond.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Mandible rather broad depressed rami well elevated inside mouth.
Lips rather firm little fleshy rather narrow.
No barbel.
Jaw edges tough rather firm though not especially trenchant.
Tongue small thick fleshy not free in mouth.
Nostrils large together superolateral on snout to upper front pupil margin posterior exposed in crescent much larger.
Interorbital broad flattened scarcely elevated convexly over eye.
Preorbital elongate greatest width about f its length latter If in horizontal eye.
Other suborbitals all narrow.
Posterior preopercle margin straight slightly inclined posteriorly.
Gillopening forward about opposite posterior preopercle margin.
Rakers iii 212 short weak blunt stumps much shorter than filaments.
Latter about half of horizontal eye.
Pseud obranchiae large little shorter than filaments.
Isthmus broad level least width about H in horizontal eye.
Teeth 1 44 1 rather conic hooked with grinding surfaces.
Scales large cycloid disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. rather broadly exposed or coloration producing vertical rhombs each with many very minute obsolete radiating strise of about vmiform size and a few small ones crowded on caudal base.
Small rounded adnate scaly flap in ventral axil about 3of fin.
I.
1. continuous little decurved anteriorly and ascending behind dorsal midway along caudal peduncle side.
Tubes simple each well exposed or after first 5 extending all way to each scale edge.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base graduated down from highest or first branched ray depressed fin about  to caudal base.
Anal origin inserted just after dorsal base graduated down from first branched or longest ray fin base If its depressed length.
Caudal long deeply forked lobes rather long pointed lower much longer.
Pectoral rounded uppermost rays longest fin about y to ventral.
Latter inserted trifle before dorsal origin reaches anal.
Vent close to anal.
Color in alcohol faded but little from that described below when fresh.
Color when fresh rather clear dull olivaceousbrown above margin of each scale dusky till low as 1.
1. at least and producing a network of diamonds or rhombs in appearance.
Head duskybrown above and this forming into a median dusky dorsal line.
Side of body more or less silvered.
Lower surface of head and body mostly translucent whitish.
Iris bright silvery slightly dusky above.
Jaws pale or translucent upper slightly brownish.
Costal region silvery merging into plumbeous or grayish longitudinal streak along caudal peduncle side.
Each scale of 1.
1. with a number of duskjbrown points along tubes.
Dorsal and caudal pale transparent grayishdusky other fins paler.
Length 2yg inches.
Type No.
31126 A. N. S. P. Tributary of the Allegheny River above south of Port Allegany McKean County.
August of 1904.
T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler.
Head 3f to 3 depth 4to 5 D. usually iii 6 i rarely iii 7 i A. usually iii 7 i rarely iii 6 i  scales 33 to 37 usually about 33  2 scales above 1.
1. usually 6 rarely 5 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales usually 16 sometimes 15 snout 3 to 3f in head eye 3 to 3yV maxillary 3yV to 3i interorbital 2f to 2 teeth 1 44 1.
Length ly to lf inches.
Tributary of the Allegheny R. at Cole Grove McKean Co. July 23 1899.
S. P. G. Lindsay and H. W. Fowler.
Nos.
24045 to 24047 A. N. S. P. paratypes.
This species seems to be most closely related to N. hudsonius but differs in the larger and more slender caudal peduncle different physiognomy and coloration.
It differs from A'' deliciosus and N. boops in the same characters besides others such as the eye and fin rays.
It differs from N. ariommus N. scabriceps N. jejunus and allied species in the fewer pharyngeal teeth and other characters in combination when the proper extent of variation is allowed.
It may therefore be considered a member of the subgenus Hudsonius.
Only the type was obtained at Port Allegany.
At the type locality the stream was of clear cold water flowing rather rapidly over a shallow place of considerable extent and with a bottom of small stones and pebbles.
The fish was rather shy and though several others were seen at the same time the one secured was rather difficult to capture.
They all seemed to lurk about the banks under large stones or in the deeper places and were quite agile in their movements.
Coitus gracilis and Semotilus atromacidatus were found in the same places the latter especially abundant.
At Cole Grove several small examples were taken some years previously.
They were all found in pools associated with Exoglossum maxillingua and Leuciscus elongatus.
In coloration they did not seem to differ much from the type their caudal lobes being about equal.
Named for my friend Mr. Thomas D. Keim who assisted me in procuring the type besides many interesting local collections of fishes for the Academy.
Notropis hudsonius Clinton.
Head 4I depth 4 D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 37  1 scales above 1.
1.
5 scales below 1.
1.
5 predorsal scales 15 snout 3 in head eye 3 mterorbitar3 teeth 2 44 1
Body compressed.
Head small compressed.
Snout broadly convex length  its width.
Eye high.
Mouth large well inclined.
Maxillary to eye.
Mandible included.
Interorbital depressed.
Rakers 3  5 short firm points.
Scales well exposed.
L. 1. almost straight slightly decurved complete.
Dorsal origin about midway between posterior nostril and caudal base.
Anal rather close behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked lobes pointed equal.
Pectoral i to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal origin f to anal.
Color pale brownish above below white.
Broad silvery band along side.
Black spot at caudal base.
Iris silverywhite.
Length 2f inches.
Lake Erie at Erie Erie Co..
This fish closely related to the next occurs only west of the Alleghanies.
It is characterized chiefly by the ever present jetblack caudal spot.
It is said to reach 10 inches in length and not frequent small streams.
Desirable as a bait minnow.
Notropis hudsonius amarus Girard.
Head 3f to 4f  depth 3 to 5 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A. iii 7 I rarely iii 8 i  scales usually 35 or 36 frequently 34 or 37 occasionally 33 38 or 39 rarely 31 40 or 42  usually 2 rarely 1 or 3 usually 6 scales seldom 5 rarely 7 above 1.
1. usually 5 scales seldom 4 rarely 6 below 1.
1.  usually 15 frequently 14 often 16 seldom 13 rarely 17 or 22 predorsal scales snout 3 to 3in head eye 2f to 3 maxillary 2f to 3 interorbital 2 to 3yo teeth usually 1 44 1 frequently 2 44 2 or 2 44 1 or 1 44 2 rarely 0 44 1 or 2 44 or 2 43 or 1 44 or 0 44 0.
Bodj compressed rather robust.
Head rather broad compressed.
Snout convex length f its width.
Eye little elongate rounded.
Mouth somewhat oblique.
Jaws about even.
Maxillary to hind nostril.
Interorbital convex middle flattened.
Rakers 2  5 short weak points.
Scales well exposed.
L. 1. complete little decurved midway along caudal peduncle side.
Dorsal inserted little nearer snout tip than caudal base.
Anal inserted little behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked lobes pointed.
Pectoral about f to ventral latter inserted slightly before or opposite dorsal origin reaches f to anal.
Color pale olivaceousbrown largely.
Scale edges on back dusted darker.
Broad silverywhite lateral band from eye to caudal margin above on trunk behind leaden.
Caudal spot faint or absent.
Iris silverywhite.
Length 2y'6to 5i inches.
Many examples from the Delaware R. basin in Black Horse Run and first tributary below Mill Run Ring's Rim Chester Co. Holmesburg Torresdale Philadelphia Co. Hulmeville Neshaminy Falls Bristol Bucks Co. Dingman's Ferry Pike Co. Susquehanna R. basin Pequea Creek at Paradise Cocalico Creek near Denver and at Witmer's Mills Lancaster Co..
A very abundant minnow in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna basins.
It is usually found in the larger creelcs and rivers and readily takes a hook.
It is good as bait and though said to reach 8 inches in length it is seldom that examples are met with over 4 or 5 inches thus being too small as a rule to use as pan fish.
I have never seen any over 6 inches.
It is distinguished from the preceding chiefly by the very faint or pale caudal spot though in the young it is always somewhat in evidence.
Young examples also have the lateral line incomplete only as a few tubes at the beginning of its course.
It usually occurs in schools and while more a feature of open rivers both at the head of tide and above it does occur contrary to the statements of some writers in our smaller streams or runs.
It is also subject to considerable variation in structure though the coloration remains about the same throughout the season there evidently being no gaudy nuptialdress.
Notropis whipplii Girard.
Head 3f to 4 depth 3f to 4f  D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i scales usually 38 sometimes 36 37 or 39 rarely 35  usually 2 frequently 3 usually 7 scales frequently 6 above 1.
1. usually 4 scales frequently 5 below 1.
1.  predorsal scales usually 17 frequently 16 rarely 15 18 or 19 snout 3 to 3y in head eye 3 to 4 maxillary 3 to 3f  interorbital 2 to 2 teeth 1 44 1.
Body moderately slender compressed profiles similar.
Head pointed compressed.
Snout convex length f its width.
Eye small little longer than deep rather high.
Maxillary not quite to eye.
Mouth moderate inclined.
Mandible included.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Rakers 3  8 slender pointed short.
Scales narrowly imbricated.
L. 1. complete decurved little low along caudal peduncle side.
Dorsal origin trifle nearer front nostril than caudal base.
Anal origin slightly behind dorsal base.
Caudal well forked slender lobes pointed equal.
Pectoral about f to ventral latter inserted well before dorsal reaches vent.
Color olivaceous on back each scale duskyedged.
Iris silverywhite.
Sides bluish silverywhite below white.
Satinwhite ends to fins of spring males.
Black spot on dorsal behind middle above equals eye variable less conspicuous in female and young.
Front and head minutely tuberculate in spring males.
Length 2f to 3 inches.
Many examples from Kiskiminitas and Youghiogheny Rivers and Erie Erie Co..
Found in the clear waters of the Ohio valley and Lake Erie.
It is a beautiful little fish reaching 4 inches in length.
At all times it is largely bluishsilvery in general color.
A good bait minnow.
It greatly resembles its eastern relative.
Notropis whipplii analostanus Girard.
Head 3 to  depth 3 to 4 D. iii 7 i A. usually iii 8 i occasionally iii 7 i seldom iii 9 i rarely iii 6 i scales usually 34 frequently 32 or 33 often 35 31 or 30 occasionally 36 seldom 37 or 39 rarely 38 28 or 27  usually 2 often 3 usually 6 scales seldom 5 or 7 above 1.
1.  usually 4 scales rarely 5 below 1.
1.  predorsal scales usually 14 or 15 frequently 13 or 16 seldom 17 rarely 12 or 11  snout 3 to 4 in head eye 2 to 4 maxillary 2f to 4 interorbital 2Jto 3 teeth 1 44 1.
Body moderately slender usually rather deep in adult males compressed profiles similar.
Head pointed compressed.
Snout conic about long as wdde.
Eye small little longer than deep rather high.
Mouth moderate inclined.
Mandible included.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Rakers 2  7 short points.
Scales narrowly imbricated.
L. 1. complete decurved low along caudal peduncle side.
Dorsal origin midway between eye front and caudal base.
Anal inserted just behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked lobes equal.
Pectoral  to ventral latter inserted trifle before dorsal origin fin reaches anal.
Color olivaceous on back scale edges dusky.
Iris silverwhite.
Sides bluishwhite below white all silvery.
Fins in spring males with satinwhite borders.
Black dorsal spot behind middle of fin above equals eye variable less evident in female and young.
Head above muzzle and predorsal region finely tuberculate in spring males.
Length 1to 3 inches.
A very large series  from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square Ring's Run Chester Co. Brandywine Summit Concordville Markam Colhngdale Delaware Co. Barren Hill Abrarns Montgomery Co. Holmesburg Torresdale Philadelphia Co. Cornwells Hulmeville Little Neshaminy Creek Neshaminy Falls near Langhorne Bristol Emilie Bucks Co. Dingman's Ferry Pike Co. Suscpehanna R. basin at Paradise Conestoga Creek Trout and Akron Runs at Ephrata Cocalico Creek near Denver Swamp Bridge Witmer's Mills and run near Blainsport Lancaster Co. York Furnace York Co..
The silver fin is the most abundant of its genus in the Delaware contrary to the impression of some writers.
It prefers clear water and usually the smaller streams and creeks though often found in tidewater if not brackisli.
During the late spring and on through the early summer the males assume high coloration.
Brilliant pigment of satinwhite color is found about the ends of all their fins the rays of which become somewhat enlarged or swollen and thus earning for the fish the very appropriate name of silver fin.
Tubercles of small size also appear on the upper surface of the body though disappearing by late summer along with the brilliant coloring.
The females are but rarely tuberculous and never so brilliant as the males.
The young are not brilliantly colored but are usually to be distinguished by their reticulated scale pattern being made up of fiarrowly imbricated scales though the lateral line is complete.
The silver fin sometimes collects in large shoals of possibly a thousand or more individuals and associates sometimes with other small fish.
They are equally active throughout the year in certain localities and may sometimes be found under the ice.
They will usually bite at a small worm or other bait on a small minnowhook though of no use as food on account of their small size the largest I know of not exceeding 4 inches.
They are good bait and live well in the aquarium.
Only found in the Delaware and Susquehanna basins.
Closely related to N. whipplii and differing in the deeper body and larger scales.
Notropis cornutus Mitchill.
Head 3 to 5 depth 3 to 4f  D. usually iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i or iii 6 i A. usually iii 8 i seldom iii 9 i rarely iii 7 i scales usually about 30 frequently 31 32 33 34 35 and 36 often 37 to 40 and 27 to 29 rarely 25 26 41 or 44  usually 3 frequently 2 rarely 4 scales above 1.
1. usually 8 frequently 7 occasionally 9 rarely 6 or 7 scales below 1.
1. usually 5 seldom 4 or 6 rarely 7 predorsal scales usually 17 or 18 frequently 15 16 19 or 20 occasionally 14 sometimes 21 or 22 seldom 23 to 25 rarely 12 13 26 or 27 snout 2 to 4 in head  eye 2 to 4 maxillary 2f to 4 interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 2 44 2 usually rarely 2 44 1.
Body compressed rather deep predorsal swollen form more elongate in young.
Head compressed heavy.
Muzzle obtuse.
Snout convex length about f its width.
Eye small large in young circular rather high.
Mouth moderate little inclined.
Jaws about equal.
Maxillary to eye in adult.
Interorbital well convex.
Rakers 2  8 short firm points.
Predorsal scales usually small and crowxled and narrowly imbricated or elongated vertically on costal region.
L. 1. complete well decurved about midway along caudal peduncle side.
Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base.
Anal origin trifle behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral about f to ventral.
Ventral inserted little before dorsal reaches anal.
Color above dark bluisholive scale edges and bases dusky.
Sides and below silverywhite tinged rosy in spring males.
Golden streak along upper side or back most conspicuous as seen from above when fish swims in the water.
Dusky streak behind gillopening.
Dorsal dusky other fins plain all edged broadly bright vermihon in spring males.
Red on fins pale or absent in females or young.
Muzzle and head above in spring males tuberculous.
Iris silvery golden in spring males.
Length IfV to SfV inches.
Very many examples from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square Ring's Run Black Horse Run and first tributary below.
Mill Run Willistown Barrens Chester Co. Collar Brook Whetstone Run Langford's Run Trout Run Lewis's Run Markam Wawa Delaware Co. Schuylkill R. Abrams Montgomery Co. Holmesburg Bustleton Torresdale Philadelphia Co. Cornwells Hulmeville Neshaminy Falls Little Neshaminy Creek Newtown Bristol near Langhorne Buclcs Co. Dingman's Ferry Pike Co. Susquehanna R. basin at Emporium Cameron Co.  Muncy Lycoming Co.  Carlisle Cumberland Co. Paradise near Denver Swamp Bridge Trout Run near Ephrata Lancaster Co. Meshoppen Elk Co. Port Allegany and Cole Grove McKean Co. Newcastle Lawrence Co. Kiskiminitas R. Like the silver fin this is a most abundant species.
It often associates with this its smaller relative especially when young.
The breedingdress of the spring male is very gorgeous and is much more brightly colored than that of the silver fin.
The head above and predorsal region are much more coarsely tuberculate and the former together with most of the finrays becomes adiposelike or with a swollen appearance.
The red fin has an interesting habit of resorting to clear shallows in the spawning season which occurs about Philadelphia from late April to early summer.
Schools of probably several hundred of the brilliantlycolored males may be found closely packed together as a mass of crimson and purple in these places.
The females did not seem to take part in these gatherings or at least I was unable to identify any in the several schools captured.
From this it appears that they precede the males to the spawning grounds.
Sometimes the males are herded in clear riffles but usually where there is a sandy or clear pebble bottom.
The females besides being paler in color lack the tubercles usually.
The young are without any red though generally with pale bluish or violet reflections on their sides and only in the very young is the lateral line incomplete.
The largest examples examined were 7 inches long and I doubt if they seldom exceed 8 inches.
The red fin is frequently found in rock pools about cascades and seems perfectly at home in turbulent foamy water.
They are frequently angled on a small hook and though palatable as a pan fish are usually too small to be of any value.
As bait they are excellent.
It occurs usually in the smaller streams being entirely distributed over our region.
I have not yet taken it in tidewater.
Notropis ohalybaeus Cope. Head 3f to 4 depth 3 to 4 D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i scales usually 30 frequently 31 often 29 32 33 34 35 rarely 28 36 or 39  usually 2 seldom 3 rarely 1 scales above 1.
1. usually 6 occasionally 7 rarely 5 scales below 1.
1. usually 4 seldom 3 rarely 5 predorsal scales usually 15 frequently 14 16 or 17 rarely 13 or 18 snout 3 to 4 in head eye 2 to 3 maxillary 2f to 3f  interorbital 2y to 3 teeth 2 44 2.
Body well compressed heavy forward.
Caudal peduncle slender.
Head compressed.
Snout convex length I its width.
Eye rounded high.
Mouth inclined mandible slightly protruding.
Maxillary to eye.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Rakers 3  6 short slender points.
Scales well exposed.
Predorsal scales slightly smaller.
L. 1. complete in adults incomplete in young.
Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base.
Anal inserted little behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral I to ventral latter inserted trifle before dorsal origin fin reaches vent.
Color dark brown scales darkedged on back.
Black lateral band from snout to caudal base purple blue or green in some lights and ending in black caudal blotch.
Just over this a light brownish streak and within none of scales darkedged like back above.
Below whitish.
Length 1 to 2y inches.
Many examples from the Delaware R. basin in Mill Creek at Bristol and the Neshaminy Creek at Neshaminy Falls Bucks Co..
This is a very brilliant little fish in full breedingdress the lower surface of the body and pale area of brown adjoining the black lateral band being rich orange.
This is only the case with the male which is also covered with ininute tubercles rather sparsely over the upper surface of the head though much larger on preorbital and mandible.
All of predorsal scales edged rather coarsely with corrugations or tubercles.
The females lack the tubercles and may easily be known at this time by their swollen abdomens due to being gravid Avdth ova.
They all associate with other small fishes in rather still or quiet water usually in large schools of several hundred individuals and are largely ' Cope includes N. scabriceps Cope from our limits in western Pennsylvania hvpothetically 35 preyed on by the common pike Esox americanus.
When a school is found in such a place the individuals are invariably all headed in one direction and moving as if by one impulse when disturbed.
Sometimes however they flash a little of their silvery sides as they move about.
When greatly agitated they do not seem to swim far but soon form into another school further on.
I have only met with them in the lower Delaware valley.
Notropis jejunus Forbes.
Recorded from the Monongahela by Evermann and BoUman.
I have no material.
Notropis atherinoides Rafinesque.
Head 4 to 4i depth 5 to 5 D. iii 7 i A. usually iii 9 i occasionally iii 10 i  scales usually about 40 sometimes 38 or 34  iLsually 2 sometimes 3 scales above 1.
1. usually 6 occasionally 7 scales below 1 1.
4 predorsal scales IG to 19 snout 3to 3f in head eye 3 maxillary 2 to 3f  interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 2 44 2.
Body compressed elongate slender.
Head compressed blunt.
Snout conic length f its width.
Eye rounded.
Mouth rather small inclined jaws about even.
Maxillary not quite to eye.
Interorbital evenly convex.
Rakers 2  7 rather weak points.
Scales rather narrowly imbricated along middle of side.
L. 1. decurved complete.
Dorsal origin about midway between eye center and caudal base.
Anal origin trifle behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral f to ventral.
Ventral inserted well before dorsal.
Color transparent greenish above.
Dark streak down back medianly.
Sides bright silverywhite.
Spring males with rosy snout.
Length 2 to 4 inches.
Two examples from the Beaver R. and 2 from Lake Erie at Erie Erie Co..
This handsome species is said to reach 6 inches in length.
It occurs in rivers and lakes west of the Alleghanies usually in schools and in still water.
Notropis rubrifrons Cope.
Alburnus rubrifrons Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Plxila. 1865 p. 85.
Kiskiminitas River.
Head 3 depth 4f D. iii 7 i A. iii 8 i P. i 13
 V. i 7 scales 36  3 scales above 1.
1.
7 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales 18 head width 2 its length head depth at occiput If mandible 2 depressed dorsal length 1 anal length If least depth caudal peduncle 2f'o pectoral IJ ventral ly snout 3 in head from upper jaw tip eye to' maxillary 2 interorbital 3y.
Body elongate compressed deepest at ventral origin profiles similarly convex edges rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed rather slender least depth 2 its length.
Head compressed rather pointed flattened sides rather convergent below profiles similar lower little more evenly and convexly inclined.
Snout rather conic surface convex length about equals its width.
Eye rounded little high near first f in head.
Mouth moderate little inclined jaw edges rather firm.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Maxillary slender to eye front.
Lips rather thin.
Mandible depressed rami not elevated inside mouth.
Tongue depressed fleshy not free.
Nostrils together on side of snout crescentic posterior larger.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital Httle ovoid width about f its length latter 1 in eye.
Preorbital width about equals pupil.
Posterior preopercle margin nearly vertical.
Gillopening forward little before hind eye magin not quite to pupil.
Rakers about 26
short weak points longest i of filaments latter If in eye.
Pseudobranchiae large little smaller than filaments.
Isthmus width at front IJ in pupil.
Scales in series parallel with 1.1. all mostly broadly exposed smaller on breast and pre ventral each with several striae.
Ventral axil with pointed scaly flap 5 in depressed fin.
L. 1. complete decurved at greatest depth to lowest third.
Tubes simple each well over exposed scale not quite to edge.
Dorsal origin midway between hind eye margin and caudal base fin highest anteriorly depressed 1 to caudal base.
Anal origin just behind dorsal base fin highest anteriorly depressed 2 to caudal base.
Caudal damaged.
Pectoral rather long upper rays longest fin  to ventral.
Ventral inserted little before dorsal depressed f to anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol dull brownish generally back but little darker than rest of general color.
Sides and below silvery to whitish.
Fins pale brownish.
Iris silvery.
Length 2 inches caudal damaged.
No.
4035 A N. S. P. cotype type of A. ruhrifrons Cope.
Kiskiminitas River Cope.
Also Nos.
4036 to 4039 same data in poor preservation showing  Head 4 to 4 depth 4f to 4f D. iii 7 i A. iii 9 i or iii 10 i scales 30 to 37  2 scales above 1.
1.
6 or 7 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales 17 to 20 snout 3yV to 3in head eye 3 to 3 maxillary 24 to 2 interorbital 2 to 3 teeth 2 44 2 length 2j to 2 inches.
Found in clear streams west of the Alleghanies.
In life this fish is olivaceous in color sides and lower surface silverywhite.
Spring males have the forehead side of head and dorsal base rosjred and the snout tuberculous.
Along base of anal row of dark specks and dark streak down middle of back.
Said to reach 2f inches.
Notropis photogenis Cope.
Squalius photogenis Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1864 p. 280.
Youghiogheny River Pennsylvania.
Head 4 depth about 5 emaciated D. iii 7 i A. iii 8
 P. i 12
 V. i 7 scales about 30
squamation injured  2 scales above 1.
1.
6 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales 16 head width ly its length head depth at occiput If snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital 3 first branched dorsal ray 1 anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 upper caudal lobe 1 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongated compressed edges apparently rounded profiles similar deepest at dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth 2 its length.
Head compressed flattened sides convergent below profiles similar.
Snout convex length f its width.
Eye large little longer than deep high near first 7 in head.
Mouth inclined moderate jaw edges firm.
Premaxillaries protractile.
Maxillary slender to eye front.
Mandible depressed rami well elevated inside mouth symphysis slightly protruding in front when mouth closes.
Lips rather thin.
Tongue fiesh depressed rather far back.
Nostrils together on snout side above near eye posterior larger.
Interorbital broadly convex Preorbital width about  its length latter H in eye.
Postorbital width equals pupil other suborbitals narrow.
Gillopening forward to last third in head.
Rakers 2  7 weak points longest about 4 in filaments latter 2J in eye.
Pseud obranchiae little shorter than filaments.
Isthmus width about 1in pupil surface flattened.
Teeth 2 44 2 hooked with slight grindingsurface.
Scales about uniform in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. little smaller on breast.
No evident axillary ventral scale.
L. 1. continuous well decurved ascending rather low along caudal peduncle side.
Tubes simple well over scales though not quite to margins.
Dorsal origin midway between front nostril and caudal base graduated down from first branched ray or longest depressed f to caudal base.
Anal origin trifle behind dorsal base firet branched ray highest depressed f to caudal base.
Caudal well forked pointed lobes about equal.
Pectoral f to ventral upper rays longest entral inserted little before dorsal reaching anal
Color in alcohol plain pale brownish generally of uniform tint.
Iris with slight silvery tinge.
Length 1inches.
No.
22280 A. N. S. P. cotype type of S. photogenis Cope.
Youghiogheny River Cope Pa. Also No.
22281 same data showing Head 3f  depth 5 D. iii 7 i A. iii 8
 scales 33
 3
 scales above 1.
1.
6 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales 14
 snout 3 in head eye 2 maxillary 3 interorbital 3 length 1 inches.
Both examples in poor preservation.
Found in streams west of the Alleghanies and said to reach 3 inches in length.
Notropis photogenis amoenus Abbott.'
Head 3f to 4 depth 4 to 5f  D. usually iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A. usually iii 10 i occasionally iii 9 i rarely iii 11 i scales usually about 38 though ranging from 31 to 40  usually 2 frequently 3 rarely 1 scales above 1.
1. usually 7 seldom 6 or 8 scales below 1.
1.
4 predoisal scales usually 18 to 21 seldom 17 22 23 or 24 snout 3 to 3 in head eye 2f to 3 maxillary 2f to 3 interorbital 2f to 3yV teeth 2 44 2.
Body compressed slender.
Head compressed.
Snout convex length its width.
Eye rounded rather high.
Mouth well inclined moderate mandible included evenly.
Maxillary to eye.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Rakers 2  6 short weak points.
Scales rather broadly exposed crowded on predorsal region.
L. 1. complete decurved about lowest third.
Dorsal origin midway between eye and caudal base inal origin below last doreal ray base.
Caudal long deepl forked.
Pectoral  to ventral.
Ventral inserted little before dorsal fin f to anal.
Color translucent olive on back sides and below silverywhite.
Leaden streak along side sometimes offsetting color of back and belly extending from eye to caudal where little darker.
Iris silverywhite.
Length 1 to 3inches.
Many examples  from the Delaware R. basin at Holmesburg Philadelphia Co.  Neshaminy Falls Hulmeville Bristol Emilie Bucks Co. Dingman's Ferry Pike Co. Susquehanna R. basin at Paradise and Swamp Bridge near Denver Lancaster Co..
Found only in the lower Delaware and Susquehanna basins by me.
It was especially abundant in the Neshaminy Creek and also occurs rather frequently in the Delaware tidewater.
It is a beautiful bright silvery little minnow and is said to reach 3 inches.
It seems to differ from N. photogenis chiefly in the smaller predorsal scales.
I have usually found it associated with large schools of other minnows or small fishes. '
Cope records N. umhratilis ardens Cope from west of the Alleghanies evidently hypotheticalh as no definite locahty is mentioned.
Ericymba buccata Cope.
 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Pliila. 1865 p. 88.
Kiskiminitas River.
Head 3 depth 5 D. iii 7 i A. iii 1 i P. i 14 V. i 7 scales 34  2 scales above 1.
1.
5 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales 17 head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput If snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 4 interorbital Z first branched dorsal ray 1 anal ray 1 least depth caudal peduncle 2 upper caudal lobe trifle over 1 pectoral 1 ventral 2.
Body compressed elongate slender back not elevated though upper profile little more convex than lower deepest at dorsal origin edges mostly rounded and only upper and lower caudal peduncle surfaces with traces of median low obsolete keel.
Caudal peduncle rather long compressed least depth about 2 its length.
Head elongate moderately compressed somewhat flattened sides slightly convergent above with lower surface slightly broader than upper upper profile somewhat evenly convex more inclined than straight lower one.
Snout convex shghtly protruding long as wide.
Eye large ellipsoid near upper profile center trifle before head center.
Mouth small inferior scarcely inclined obtuse edges not firm.
Premaxillaries protractile down in front.
Maxillary rather concealed to front nostril.
Lips fleshy.
Mandible depressed small rami little elevated inside mouth.
Tongue thick fleshy depressed rather far back.
Nostrils together on snout side above frenum last fourth in snout anterior circular posterior crescentic.
Interorbital broad shghtly evenly convex.
Preorbital about H in eye wudth about If.
Other suborbitals all much narrower postorbitals scarcely evident.
Posterior margin of preopercle concave to curve posteriorly below.
External conspicuous mucous chambers along each side of head below eye and along mandible surface below.
Upper series about 7 cells and mandibular series about 9 on each side of head.
Gillopening forward to upper hind preopercle margin about last third in head.
Rakers 14 short firm robust processes thick set about 4 in filaments latter 1 in eye.
Pseudobranchise small less than half of filaments.
Least isthmus width H in eye lower surface broadly depressed.
Teeth 1 44 1 hooked strongly at tips without grinding surfaces but edges entire.
Scales in series parallel Avith 1.
1. mostly uniform except little smaller on breast and median dorsal and ventral bodyedges striae radiating all rather broadly exposed.
Caudal base scales not smaller than  Cope includes Phenacobius teretulus Cope as probably occurring in western Pennsylvania thus purely hypothetical.
others.
Ventral axil without scaly flap though broad scaly flap between bases of fins its hind edge free.
L. 1. complete only decurved at first till midway along body side and caudal peduncle.
Tubes simple wefl exposed over each scale nearly to edge.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base third simple ray highest though first branched subequal fin 2 to caudal base.
Anal origin trifle after dorsal base third simple ray longest though first branched subequal fin 2 to caudal base.
Caudal deeply forked lobes pointed equal.
Pectoral rather broad upper rays longest yjj to ventral.
Ventral inserted trifle before dorsal broadly expanded reaches vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol dull brownish lower surface scarcely paler side of head and streak down middle of side of trunk dull leadensilvery.
Fins plain pale brownish.
Iris dull brassybrown.
Length 2 inches.
No.
6003 A. N. S. P. cotype type of E. huccata Cope.
Kiskiminitas River western Pennsylvania Cope.
Also No.
6004 same data showing Head 3 depth 4f  D. iii 7 i A. iii 7 i scales 31 2 scales above 1.
1.
5 scales below 1.
1.
4 predorsal scales 14 snout 3 in head eye 3f  maxillary 3y interorbital S third simple dorsal ray 1 anal ray 1 caudal 1 least depth caudal peduncle 3 pectoral If ventral 1 teeth 1 44 1 length If inches.
Cope says a narrow space from vent to opposite middle of pectorals scaleless which is not true in the above examples.
This little fish is said to reach 5 inches in length and occurs in clear streams and ponds west of the Alleghanies.
Its color is ohvaceous above with silvery sides and spring males are said to be without tubercles or bright colors.
There is a dark fine down the middle of the back and a streak of dusky dots along the side.
Rhinicllthys oataractse Valenciennes.
Head 3 to 4 depth 4 to 5 D. iii 7 i A. iii 6 i scales variable 41 to 68 mostly from 53 to 66  usually 3 occasionally 4 rarely 2 scales above 1.
1. usuaUy 13 frequently 12 or 14 often 15 sometimes 11 scales below 1.
1. usually 11 frequently 10 often 9 seldom 12 rarely 8 predorsal scales usually 27 to 31 occasionally 24 to 26 and 32 to 35 rarely 22 36 or 37 snout 2 to 3j in head eye 3i to 5 maxiflary 2 to 3 interorbital 2f to 4 teeth 2 44 2.
Body moderately slender compressed rather robast forward.
Head elongate rather conic.
Snout long as broad convex protruding beyond mandible about 1 eyediameter Eye small in adult large in young high midway in head.
Mouth small broad.
Maxillary to hind nostril small barbel at end.
Slightly convex interorbital broad.
Rakers 2  5 robust firm short points.
Scales smaller anteriorly on trunk.
L. 1. complete slightly decurved nearly midway.
Dorsal origin about midway between front nostril and caudal base.
Anal inserted little behind dorsal base.
Caudal forked lobes about equal.
Pectoral  to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal fin to vent.
Color olivaceous above sometimes nearly blackish with mottled appearance.
No distinct dusky lateral shade in adult more evident in young.
Lower surface whitish.
Sometimes blackish opercle blotch.
Lips cheeks and lower fins in spring males rosyred.
Iris silvery.
Spring males also with entire upper head pectoral fin and trunk finely tuberculate jaws smooth.
Length 1 to 3y inches.
Many examples from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square Mendenliall and Mill Run Chester Co. the Susquehanna R. basin at Paradise Lancaster Co. and Meadow Run in the Youghiogheny R. basin near Ohio Pyle Fayette Co..
This dace occurs in clear swift streams usually about rapids and deep pools in all the upland waters of the State.
It is said to reach 5 inches in length and be good bait for bass though rather difficult to secure.
I have usually found it associated with R. atronasus though it appears to be more active.
Rhinichthys atronasus Mitchill.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3f to 5 D. iii 7 i rarely iii 6 i or iii 8 i A. usually iii 6 i rarely iii 7 i scales usually 50 to 60 varying frequently 43 to 49 and 61 to 64 rarely varying 39 to 42 and 65 to 67  usually 3 occasionally 2 or 4 scales above 1.
1. usually 12 frequently 11 or 13 seldom 10 rarely 14 scales below 1.
1. usually 8 frequently 9 seldom 7 or 10 rarely 11 predorsal scales usually 30 to 33 frequently 28 29 or 34 to 38 seldom 25 to 27 rarely 23 and 39 to 42 snout 2 to 3 in head eye 3 to 5 maxillary 3 to 4 interorbital 2 to 3f  teeth 2 44 2 usually rarely 2 54 2 or 2 4 14 2 or 2 43 2 or 1 34 2.
Body compressed moderately long.
Head moderate robust broad.
Snout convex depressed length  its width.
Eye small in adult large in young circular high slightly anterior.
Mouth small inferior snout projecting about  of eye beyond mandible.
Maxillary little inchned to front nostril ending in short barbel.
Interorbital broadly depressed.
Rakers 3  4 short firm points.
Scales small well exposed.
L. 1. complete in adult absent in young.
Dorsal origin midway between hind eye margin and caudal base.
Anal origin just after dorsal base.
Caudal forked lobes rounded.
Pectoral  to ventral latter inserted little before dorsal origin fin to anal.
Color very variable usually olivaceousbrown above mottled with diLsky.
Black lateral band from snout to caudal always pronounced in young.
Below white.
Lower fins whitish to pale yellowish.
In spring males sometimes whole body blushed crimson or golden lateral blackish band vermilion or orange also lower fins.
Later in season dark lateral band turns blackish.
Spring males also with head above behind nostrils minutely tuberculate.
Length IJ to 3inches.
Very many examples  from the Delaware R. basin at Kennett Square Mendenhall Black Horse Run second tributary below latter run near Stock Grange AVillistown Barrens Chester Co. Chadd's Ford Wawa Whetstone Run north branch of Langford's Run Lewis's Run Hunter's Run Collar Brook Collingdale Delaware Co. Wissahickon Creek Holmesburg Torresdale Philadelphia Co. Abrams Hatboro Montgomery Co. Cornwells Neshaminy Falls Little Neshaminy Creek Newtown near Ijanghorne Tullytown Bucks Co. Dingman's Ferry Pike Co.  Susquehanna R. basin at Brooklyn Potter Co.  Loyalsock Creek near Lopez Sullivan Co. Octoraro Creek at Nottingham Chester Co.  Paradise Akron and Trout Runs near Ephrata Witmer's Mills and run near Blainsport Lancaster Co. Allegheny R. Port Allegany and Cole Grove McKean Co. Warren Warren Co. Youghiogheny R. and Meadow Run near Ohio Pyle Fayette Co. Beaver R. Kiskiminitas R.  Genesee R. at Gold and Raymonds Potter Co.  Potomac R. basin in Cove Creek Fulton Co..
This beautiful little fish is very abundant in most all clear swift cold brooks in the State especially in the mountainous regions.
It is variable in the extreme and many quite striking varieties may be found even in the same brook.
The socalled brownnosed dace from our western streams does not appear to differ in having a paler color and deeper body so far as I have examined.
In fact many western examples are very dark or dusky.
The snout is also variable.
The fish is often found greatly parasitized with tapeworms the abdomen then being greatly swollen.
It is said to be good as bait.
It spawns in the late spring and early summer though brightcolored examples are found throughout the latter season.
Hybopsis dissimilis Kirtland.
' Head 3 to 4 depth 5 to 6f  D. iii 7 i A. iii 6 i scales usually about 47 varying 32 to 50  3 scales above 1.
1. usually 6 rarely 7 8 Recorded wrongly by me in Am.
Nat. XLI 1907 p. 11 as R. cataractce.
 Bean records H. amblops Rafin6sque from the Ohio valley hypothetically.
scales below 1.
1. usually 5 rarely 6 predorsal scales usually 19 or 20 rarely 17 18 21 or 23 snout 2 to 3 in head eye 2f to 3 maxillary S to 3 J interorbital 3 to 4 teeth 44.
Body elongate slender compressed.
Caudal peduncle long slender.
Head long robust little deeper than broad.
Snout convex long as broad.
Eye large high midway in head.
Mouth small inferior upper jaw protruding slightly.
Maxillary well short of eye ending in short barbel.
Interorbital flattened.
Rakers 2  5 short points.
Scales smaller on predorsal well exposed.
L. 1. complete nearly straight.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base.
Anal origin little behind depressed dorsal tip.
Caudal forked.
Pectoral 7to ventral latter inserted little behind dorsal origin fin  to anal.
Color olivaceous back rather mottled below white.
Sides bright silverywhite.
Fins pale plain.
Lateral bluish stripe around snout overlaid with several dusky spots.
Length 26to 4 inches.
Twelve examples from the Youghiogheny R. Found in the channels of the larger streams creeks and lakes wst of the Alleghanies.
It does not appear to enter the small brooks.
Said to reach 6 inches in length and though a good biter most too small as food.
Taken largely for bait.
Hybopsis storerianus Kirtland.
Recorded by Evermann and Bollman from the Monongahela R. Hybopsis kentuckiensis Rafinesque.
Ceratichthys micropogon Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1864 p. 277.
Conestoga Creek in Lancaster Countj.
Head 3 depth 4 D. iii 7 i A. iii 6 i scales 34  3 scales above 1.
1.
6 scales below 1.
1.
5 predorsal scales 18 head width 2 its length head depth at occiput If snout 3 eye 3 maxillary 3 interorbital 3 first branched dorsal ray  anal ray 1 least depth caudal peduncle 2h lower caudal lobe 1 pectoral If ventral If.
Body moderately long compressed profiles similar deepest at dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth If its length.
Head compressed profiles similarly convex flattened sides not convergent below.
Snout convex width f its length.
Eye elongate rounded high center about first f in head.
Mouth low nearly horizontal large.
Jaws even.
Premaxillaries protractile down.
Maxillary little inclined trifle beyond eye front not quite to pupil.
Lips thin little fleshy.
Small barbel at lower maxillary corner distally.
Jaw edges rather thin trenchant.
Mandible heavy convex rami little elevated inside mouth.
Tongue thick fleshy adnate.
Nostrils together posterior larger near eye front.
Interorbital broadlj depressed.
Preorbital broad width  its length latter 1 in eye.
Other suborbitals narrow.
Gillopening last f in head nearly to hind eye margin.
Rakers 2  5 points about 3 in filaments latter If in eye.
Pseudobranchiae large little less than filaments.
Isthmus level least widtli nearly 2 in eye.
Teeth 1 44 1 hooked compressed grinding surfaces narrow.
Scales rather large crowded on predorsal and breast more exposed along sides medianly.
Pointed scaly axillary ventral flap 5 in fin.
L. 1. complete first decurved till about midway along side.
Tubes simple over first f of exposed scales.
Dorsal origin midway between eye front and caudal base first branched ray longest fin 2 to caudal base.
Anal origin little behind dorsal base first branched ray longest fin 1gto caudal base.
Caudal forked lobes pointed tips damaged about equal.
Pectoral pointed upper rays longest fin I to ventral.
Latter inserted about opposite dorsal origin reaches anal.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol dull brownish below paler.
Head and trunk below with pale silvery reflections.
Iris pale silvery.
Fins pale brownish.
Length 3j inches caudal damaged.
No.
5061 A. N. S. P. type of C. micropogon Cope.
Conestoga Creek in Lancaster County Stauffer.
Head 3 to 4 depth 3f to 4f  D. iii 7 i A. iii 6 i usually rarely iii 7 1  scales usually 35 to 40 sometimes 33 or 34 rarely 32 or 41  usually 3 rarely 2 scales above 1.
1. usually 7 frequently 6 scales .below 1.
1. usually 5 frequently 6 rarely 4 predorsal scales usually 16 to 19 occasionally 20 rarely 14 or 24 snout 2 to 3 in head eye 3 to 7 maxiflary 2 to 3 interorbital 2 to 3 teeth usually 0 44 0 occasionally 1 44 or 1 44 1 rarely 1 44 2.
Body compressed robust.
Head large broadly rounded above.
Snout convex blunt rather long.
Eye small high round larger in young.
Mouth large little inclined mandible slightly shorter.
Maxillary not quite to eye ending in barbel.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Rakers 2  5 short bony points.
Scales well exposed.
L. 1. complete little decurved.
Dorsal origin midway between snout tip and caudal base.
Anal inserted behind dorsal base.
Caudal emarginate broad lobes rounded.
Pectoral H to ventral latter inserted opposite dorsal origin reaches vent.
Color olivaceous above with bluish tints.
Sides with pale greenish on white and silvery.
Below white.
Fins pale orange.
Spring males with head and belly blushed rosy crimson spot on side of former high adiposelike crest on forehead and snout with large tubercles.
Silvery iris then orange and greenish.
Young olivaceous above silvery below and dusky band along side medianly.
Length lye  9 inches.
Many examples from the Susquehanna R. basin in Elk Creek Chester Co. Conestoga Creek and near Denver Lancaster Co. Emporium Cameron Co. Youghiogheny R. and Meadow Rmi near Ohio Pyle Fayette Co. Beaver R. Kiskiminitas R.  Newcastle Lawrence Co. Allegheny R. basin Warren Co..
This beautiful fish occurs in all streams west of the Alleghanies and I have only met with it in the Susquehanna in the Atlantic basin of our limits.
It is said to reach 10 inches in length and be a fair table fish.
Most frequently it is found in the larger creeks and rivers seldom occurring in small broolcs.
It will take the hook readily and is a good bait as it is hardy.
It shows considerable variation the young being quite unlike the adult and the latter also differing in the spawning season which takes place in late spring and early summer.
Exoglossum maxillingua Le Sueur.
Head 3f to 4 depth 3 to 4 D. usually iii 7 i rarely iii 8 i A. usually iii 6 i rarely iii 7 i scales usually about 48 to 51 rarely 39 43 44 45 47 52 53 54 56 57  usually 3 frequently 2 rarely 4 scales above 1.
1. usually 10 frequently 9 seldom 11 rarely 12 scales below 1.
1. usually 6 frequently 7 predorsal scales usually 25 to 28 sometimes 29 rarely 30 snout 2f to 3 in head eye 2f to 4f  maxillary 2 to 3f  interorbital 2yV to 3i teeth usually 2 44 2 rarely 1 44 2 or 0 44 2.
Body compressed robust.
Llead compressed broad.
Snout convex width f its length.
Eye small in adult large in young high.
Mouth small.
Maxillary to eye.
Upper jaw projecting.
Mandible small dentaries closely wedged together incurved producing trilobed appearance.
Interorbital broadly flattened.
Rakers 1  3 small rounded tubercles.
Scales crowded anteriorly on trunk.
L. 1. continuous in adult midway along side incomplete or absent in young.
Dorsal origin midway between front pupil margin and caudal base.
Anal inserted just behind dorsal base.
Caudal emarginate.
Pectoral f to ventral latter inserted trifle before dorsal origin reaches vent.
Color olivaceous above below whitish.
Diffuse dusky blotch at caudal base most distinct in young.
Fins otherwise plain.
Iris whitish.
Length If to 4inches.
Many examples from the Delaware R. basin at Mendenhall Black Horse Run and first tributary below Mill Run Chester Co. Susquehanna R. basin at York Furnace York Co. Paradise near Denver and Witmer's Mills Lancaster Co. Emporium Cameron Co. Allegheny R. basin at Cole Grove McKean Co..
This peculiar and strikingly characterized species occurs in all our river basins but seems to be most abundant in the Susquehanna.
It isjhowever by no means rare in the Delaware.
It reaches a length of 6 inches and though rather small is sometimes said to be used as a pan fish.
It is usually to be found in clear running water with other small fishes and readily takes a hook.
Plate XXVII  Notropis keimi Fowler.
A NEW SPECIES OF CYMATOPLEURA.
BY CHARLES S. BOYER.
Since the publication of Greville's papers on the Diatomacese but few new forms from the deposit of Barbadoes have been described with the exception of those named by the late Prof. J. Brun in the last number of Le Diatomisie.
The deposit however is very rich and Mr. John A. Shulze of Philadelphia has not only prepared and mounted the greater number of Greville's rare species but has discovered several new ones.
Among these may be mentioned a Cymatopleura the diagnosis of which follows  Cymatopleura shulzei n. sp.
Valve ellipticallanceolate with produced subcapitate ends border with moniliform markings.
Surface with ten quite definite undulations striae punctate in quincunx.
L. of V. 170 . puncta 14 in 10 j.
Barbadoes deposit.
Rare.
Coll.
J.
A. Shulze.
I take pleasure in naming this species after Mr. John A. Shulze whose preparations of selected diatoms is unexcelled.
Cymatopleura is a welldefined genus but limited in the number of species.
Those known as elUptica solea regula hibernica angulata cochlea and the three new ones of Pantocsek kinkeri gigantea and gracilis resemble each other in outline more or less.
Lewis' small form C. marina differs chiefly in its lanceolate outline.
The present species is distinguished by its produced ends and by the fact that it is the only one of the genus thus far found in the miocene deposits Plate XXVIII.
I am indebted to Dr. T. S. Stewart for the photographs from which the figures were taken.
Explanation of Plate XXVTII.
Fig.
1. Valve view.
X 650.
Fig.
2. Same.
X 350.
Fig.
3.
 Zonal view somewhat inclined showing moniliform markings and the undulations.
X 460.
NOTES ON POLINICES DIDYMA WITH DESCRIPTION OF A NEW AUSTRALIAN SPECIES.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA.
An IndoPacific group of species or forms of the Naticoid genua Polinices is characterized by having a transverse sulcus dividing the convex surface of the darkbrown umbiUcal callous lobe.
Numerous supposed species were based on shells of this character but modern authors have united all under one species called Natica ampla by Tryon Manual of Conchology VIII 1886 and Natica didynia by Watson and E. A. Smith Challenger Report XV Gastropoda 1886 p. 450 and by Pritchard and Gatliff Proc.
Roy.
Soc.
Victoria XII 1900 p. 191.
The names which have been apphed to the forms in question follow in chronological order.
1798.
Albula didyma Bolten Museum Boltenianum p. 20.
Based upon Nerita umhilicata livida Chemnitz Systematisches Conchylien Cabinet V p. 246 pi.
186 figs.
185657 Tranquebar.
1845.
Natica papyracea Busch PhiUppi Abbildungen und Beschreibungen neuer oder wenig bekannter Conchylien Vol.
II October p. 45 pi.
2 fig.
12 Hab.

 Conchylien Cabinet p. 87 pi.
13 fig.
4 p. 43 pi.
5 fig.
4.
1848.
Natica ampla Philippi Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie p. 156 spec.
16 Hab.

 Conchylien Cabinet Natica p. 41 pi.
6 fig.
2.
1848.
Natica hicolor Philippi Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie p. 156 species 17 China Sea Conchyhen Cabinet p. 43 pi.
6 fig.
4.
1848.
Natica vesicalis Philippi Zeitschrift fiir Malakozoologie p. 159 China Conchyhen Cabinet p. 40 pi.
6 fig.
1.
18461858.
Natica lamarckii Recluz in Chenu Illustrations Conchyliologiques.
Vol III pi.
2 figs.
14.
18461858.
Natica petiveriana Recluz in Chenu Illustrations Conchyliologiques.
Vol.
Ill pi.
2 figs.
59 Reeve Conchologia Iconica IX 1855 pi.
5 fig.
17.
18461858.
Natica intermedia Recluz in Chenu Illustrations Conchyliologiques.
Vol.
Ill pi.
2 fig.
10 pi.
3 figs.
1 2 3 not of Philippi 1836.
18461858.
Natica chemnitzii Recluz in Chenu Illustrations Conchyliologiques Vol.
Ill pi.
3 fig.
4.
Reeve Conchologia Iconica IX 1855 pi.
2 fig.
7 not of PfeifTer 1840.
1852.
Natica incisa ''Diinker Philippi Conchylien Cabinet Natica p. 81 pi.
12 fig.
8 China.
1852.
Natica papyracea Busch var.
major Philippi Conchylien Cabinet p. 157 pi.
5 fig.
4.
1855.
Natica lamarckiana Recluz Reeve Conchologia Iconica IX pi.
2 fig.
6.
1855.
Natica prohlematica Reeve Conchologia Iconica IX pi.
6 fig.
21.
1860.
Natica rohusta Dunker Malakozoologische Blatter Vol.
I p. 232 Mollusca Japonica 1861 pi.
2 fig.
24 Deshima.
1876.
Natica tasmanica TenisonWoods Papers and Proceedings and Report of the Royal Society of Tasmania 1875 1876 pp.
148 149 1877 1878 p. 32 1890 1891 p. 134 species 173.
Proceedings Royal Society of Victoria Vol.
XII 1900 p. 192.
Polinices tasmanica T. Woods Tate and May Proceedings Linnean Society of New South Wales Vol.
XXVI No.
103 1901 p. 375 pi.
25 fig.
49.
The study of a series of 53 specimens in 23 lots from localities in Japan China India the East Indies and Australia shows that several species and races can be distinguished as follows Polinices didyma Bolten.
PL XXIX fig.
9.
Size rather large up to 59 mm.
diam.
Coloration as in didyma ampla Phil. from which it differe by the subtriangular shape of the umbilical callus which has a long adnate upper border and less projecting outer edge than P. didyma ampla Phil.
Type locality Tranquebar.
Bolten's species was based on Chemnitz's figures.
We have seen no examples from Tranquebar but the figures seem to show no tangible difference between didyma and the common Japanese species described as N. rohusta Dkr. which we consider a synonym pending the comparison of topotypes.
We have rohusta from Tashima Awaji Hirase and Hayama near Kamakura Sagami Miss Hartshorne.
It seems to be confined to Japan and India.
Fig.
9 of plate XXIX represents a Japanese shell.
Polinices didyma ampla Phil.
PL XXIX fig.
8.
A large form ordinarily attaining the diameter of 63 mm.
The umbilicus is very ample the excavation not half covered by the callus.
which projects as a free lobe the middle or lower part projecting beyond the adnate upper border hence the general outhne of the callus is semicircular.
The lower lobe of the callus is ordinarily larger than the upper.
The inner part of the umbilical excavation is covered with yellowish cuticle except in old or worn shells as it is in all the related forms and while there may be two or three narrow radial purplish streaks the umbilicus is mainly white within.
The exterior is more or less deeply tinted with chestnut or livid brown above paler or white on the base the early whorls are dull blue with a pale subsutural band apex dark red.
The inside of the aperture is chestnut above white at the base.
Most of the specimens before us are from China.
One lot is labelled Madras.
The type locality was not known.
Absolute synonyms of this form are Natica lamarckii Recluz and N. lamarckiana Recluz Rve.
Polinices didyma bicolor Phil..
PI.
XXIX figs.
4 5.
A form of didyma which may perhaps be segregated as a subspecies was described as N. hicolor Philippi.
It is smaller than P. didyma ampla the maximum diameter 35 to 39 mm.
Umbilicus and umbilical callus similar but the lobes of the latter are often more convex and darker very dark chestnut or chocolate colored.
Upper surface darker than in didyma or didyma ampla generally bluish or somewhat plum colored with darker and paler streaks base and interior of umbilicus pale or pure white.
Interior of the aperture very dark chestnut or chocolate with a white area at the base.
This form differs from didyma and didyma ampla chiefly by the more strongly contrasted colors and smaller size.
While not strongly differentiated it seems to be recognizable and not uncommon.
Type locality China Sea.
Specimens are before us from China Singapore and Queensland.
Natica peiiveriana Recluz is identical with hicolor.
Polinices didyma vesicalis Phil..
PI.
XXIX figs.
6.
7.
Similar to P. didyma but the base and interior of the umbilicus are generally conspicuously streaked radially ivith hroum upper surface light brownish as in didyma there is a more or less definite white band or paler area between the basal and the upper tinted tracts.
This band is usually more distinct inside.
Upper adnate edge of the callous lobe generally longer than in P. didyma ampla Phil. more as in didyma but the callus is smaller.
The whole parietal wall and adjacent root of the callous lobe are covered with a heavy pure white callus whereas in didyma ampla Phil this white area is much less 36 extended.
General form is generally rather more elevated than didyma ampla.
The largest example in the Academy's collection has a diameter of 47 mm.
Type locality China.
Specimens from three sources before us are from China with one tray labelled Madras.
Natica intermedia Reclus not of Philippi 1836 N. problematica Reeve and N. incisa Dkr.
are identical with vesiccdis.
Folinices papyracea Busch Philippi.
We have not seen this form which according to Philippi differs from didyma by its depressed shape and very thin shell.
It was known to Phihppi by one specimen measuring about 18 x 20 mm.
Natica papyracea major Philippi is a larger form or specimen.
Polinices aulacoglossa n. sp.
PL XXIX figs l 2 3.
Shell globose the contour higher and less broad than in P. didyma and its varieties solid light brown or slightly bluish with an illdefined white band at the base.
Umbilicus much smaller than in P. didyma very narrow within half or more covered by the callus which is dark brown divided by a submedian transverse sulcus subtriangular in shape the upper margin adnate to the end which projects farther than the free edge of the lobe.
Parietal callus heavy white.
Other characters substantially as in P. didyma.
Alt.
30 diam.
31 mm.
Type locahty Altona Bay Williamstown near Melbourne Victoria.
Types No.
94229 A. N. S P. collected by Mr. F. H. Baker.
Some specimens received from Dr. J. C. Cox are larger alt.
41 i diam.
42 mm. otherwise similar.
This is apparently the form Hsted by Messrs. Pritchard and Gatliff as Natica didyma Chemn.
It is certainly distinct specifically from P. didyma or any of its subspecies.
Natica chemnitzii Recluz not N. chemnitzii Pfr. 1840 seems to be identical with this species though if so it attains a larger size than any examples we have seen.
In any case the name is a homonym and cannot stand.
Natica tasmanica TenisonWoods has been placed in the synonymy of P. didyma by Messrs. Pritchard and Gatliff but Tate and May in their Census of Marine Mollusca of Tasmania 1901 have r tained it distinct a decision supported by the figure published by them.
It is a far smaller species than P. aulacoglossa alt.
13 diam.
16 mm.
 and as TenisonWoods mentions seeing a number of examples in several collections it is not likely that he was dealing with young specimens.
See also the remarks by TenisonWoods'in Proceedings of the Royal Society of Tasmania 1877 p. 32 1878.
Naiica secunda Mab.
et Rocheb. as figured and descriled by Ortmann is evidently closely related to P. aulacoglossa and its allies.
It is not surprising to find that the nearest relatives of A.
secunda are austral forms.
Explanation of Plate XXLX.
The figures are slightly reduced in size.
Figs.
1 2 3Polinices aulacoglossa Pils.
and Van. n. sp.
No.
94229 A. N. S. P. Figs.
4.
5Polinices didyma bicolor Phil. No.
59200 A. N. S. P. Figs.
6' 7Polinices didyma vesicalis Phil. No.
59190 A. N. S. P. Fig.
8Polinices didyma ampla Phil. No.
59198 A. N. S. P.  Fig.
9Polinices didyma Bolt robusta Dkr.
 No.
80440 A. N. S. P ' Bep.
Princeton Univ.
Exped.
to Patagonia IV p. 188 pi.
33 fig.
3a b.
ON THE TEETH OF HAWAIIAN SPECIES OF HELICINA.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND C. MONTAGUE COOKE.
The dentition has been examined in four Hawaiian species of Helicina H. haldwini Anc H. uherta Gld. H. laciniosa Migh.
and H. rotelloidea Migh.
The chief divergence is in the denticulation of the fourth or major lateral tooth which is armed with several large and small denticles in some species and with more numerous equal denticles in others.
Helicina baldwini.
Fig.
2. Helicina laciniosa.
In all the species the central tooth has a very short smooth cusp or ledge at its summit.
In H. baldwini fig.
1 the denticle formula of the laterals is 6 5 4 5 0 that is the innermost lateral tooth has 6 points or denticles on its recurved cusp the next tooth has 5 and so on.
The inner uncini have three or four rather large denticles.
Lateral iv has very vmequal conic denticles two of them much larger than the others.
H. uherta is like haldwini except that the inner lateral has only 4 denticles.
H. laciniosa fig.
2 has the denticle formula 5 6 4 7 0.
The major lateral iv has an even series of subequal denticles.
The inner uncini have about 7 very minute subequal denticles.
The radula of H. rotelloidea resembles that of H. laciniosa the major lateral having 6 subequal denticles but the inner uncini are more like the H. haldwini type having about 4 large denticles.
What systematic value attaches to the differences observed is uncertain until many more species can be examined  but it would seem that two groups are indicated characterized by the mode of denticulation of the cusp of the fourth lateral tooth.
The figures represent the central c and lateral teeth I'r with a single uncinus w.
CLAUSILIIDJE OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE XII.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
Clausilias discovered by Mr. Y. Hirase his correspondents and assistants during the last year or two are described below.
Unusual interest attaches to certain Euphsedusoid species C. echo C. nakadce showing stages in a degeneration series leading to Reinia.
Further minor phyla of the Zaptychoid series have also been found .
Section EUPHDUSA Boettger.
I have elsewhere given reasons for including the group Reinia in Euphcedusa.
C. eastlakeana C. echo and C. nakadce are connectinglinks between the typical members of these groups.
Clausilia eastlakeana vaga n. subsp.
The shell is like C. eastlakeana Mlldff.
The .clausiUum is slightly wider and distinctly more curved.
Length 12.0 diam.
3.0 imn.
 whorls 7 10.3  3.0   Qy'o10.7  2.8   7   .... .
9 0 u 2.7 ''  gJAkusekijma.
Nakanoshima Osumi.
Types No.
95691 A. N. S. P. from No.
1513 of Mr. Hirase's collection also Akusekijima Osumi.
In general appearance this shell resembles C. variegata A.
Ad. from which it differs in having a clausilium and two palatal plicsG.
It is profusely streaked with buffwhite on a corneousbrown ground the lighter tint usually predominating.
The peristome is incomplete the aperture being shaped like that of Ena Buliminus.
The short superior lamella curves toward the left termination of the lip and is separated from the thin low spiral lamella.
The inferior lamella forms a high plate within the back.
The subcolumeller lamella is very deeply immersed.
The principal plica is rather short and lateral anil there are two short palatal plicse one above the other near the base.
Clausilia eastlakeana Moellendorff was described from Fuchow on the island Nantai province Fudshien in southern China.
So far as the shell is concerned a comparison of specimens shows scarcely any difference from the variety defined above from the northeastern Ryukyu Islands but the clausiliiuii is perceptibly different.
It must be admitted that such small differences as exist would not be thought of much significance were it not for the wide geographic separation.
Clausilia echo n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig.
7.
The shell is very small thin yellow or corneous sometimes with a few yellow flecks finely striate becoming more coarsely so on the back of the last whorl and under a lens showing faint spiral striae.
Penultimate whorl widest those above tapering to the small slightly obtuse apex.
Whorls 6 to 7 convex the last compressed laterally convex below.
Aperture squarish ovate.
Peristome continuous expanded and reflexed the upper margin notched over the superior lamella sinidus retracted.
The superior lamella is thin marginal separated from the spiral lamella which is short and lateral.
The inferior lamella is deeply placed forming a prominent fold deep in the throat strongly gyrate within the last whorl penetrating as deep as the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is very deeply immersed.
The principal plica is very short lateral.
There are small upper and lower palatal plicae.
Length 7 to 8 diam.
2 mm.
The clausihum is rather broad oval tapering toward both ends and very strongly curved.
Akusekijima Osumi Types No.
95688 A. N. S. P. from No.
1585 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Clausilia echo is a connecting link between Reinia and Ewphcedusa.
It resembles C. eastlakeana except in having the peristome complete the aperture being shaped much as in C. euholostoma Pils. but that species has no superior lamella.
C. echo is a less evolved form than C. eastlakeana in the same phylum.
Clausilia variegata A. Adams.
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1901 p. 473 pi.
25 figs.
11 12.
The type locality for this species is Tago Izu not in western Shikoku as stated in a former communication.
Other localities are Tokyo and its environs Takasaki Kozuke Kashima near Tanabe Kii and Hirado Hizen.
Specimens have been received also from Chichijima Ogasawara.
They belong to the typical form of the species not to the variety nesiotica.
The presence of this species in the Bonin Islands may perhaps be due to accidental introduction with plants or otherwise.
There has doubtless been abundant opportunity and time for such introduction since 1593 the date of first discovery of the Bonins and occupation by the Daimio Ogasawara Sadayori.
Clausilia nakadae Pilsbry.
PI.
XXX fig.
lO.
Clausilia variegata var.
nakadai Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1902 p. 328.
The shell is rimate fusiform thin dark brown uniform or marked with buff on the upper whorls upper half tapering and attenuate lower two whorls subequal in width.
Surface glossy finely and closely striate the striation coarser on the latter part of the last whorl.
Whorls 6 convex the last somewhat tapering downward rather full and convex basally.
The aperture is ovate peristome thin reflexed the ends separated joined across the parietal wall by a rather thin transparent callus.
Superior lamella very thin subvertical not continuous with the lateral and dorsal spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella prominent subhorizontal ascending in a broad spiral within.
Subcolumellar lamella very deeply immersed.
Principal plica short dorsal penetrating to a lateral position.
There are no other palatal pUcae Fig.
2.
Length 7 to 7.3 diam.
2 mm.
' The clausihum is very strongly curved so that the distal part is at a right angle with the upper part.
It is rather wide parallelsided the end obtuse slightly angular.
The columellar side is only very slightly excised near the filament.
Hachijojima Izu.
Types No.
83299 topotypes No.
96984 A. N. S. P. from No.
942 of Mr. Hirase's collection collected by Mr. Nakada.
This form was first described from two specimens neither of which contained the clausilium.
On subsequent examination Mr. Hirase discovered that it has a welldeveloped clausilium and sent additional examples one of which is described above and illustrated on the plate.
Compared with C. variegata A.
Ad. this species is much smaller and much more attenuate above it is less variegated or uniform brown and finally it has a clausihum.
C. echo of Akusekijima Osumi in the northeastern Ryukyu chain is perhaps the most closely related species but it differs from C. nakadce by having the peristome continued as a raised cord across the parietal margin and by possessing two small palatal plicae whereas C. nakada has only the principal plica.
C. nakadcB is a perfect connecting link between C. eastlakeana and echo and C. variegata.
564 Dec. Group of Clausilia aculus.
Clausilia tripleuroptyx n. sp.
PI.
XXXI figs.
1 2.
The shell is fusiform the lower three whorls rather large those above tapering to the attenuate summit brown or chocolate colored moderately glossy the last 3 or 4 whorls sharply finely striate the Fig.
3.
 Clausilia tripleuroptyx a h two views of clausilium  c last whorl and aperture d e diagrams of palatal armature of two individuals.
striae a little coarser on the back of the last whorl.
Whorls about 9 convex the last flattened laterally tapering downward.
The aperture is squarishovate peristome pale well reflexed continuous.
Superior lamella marginal of moderate size compressed continuous with the spiral lamella penetrating to the middle of the ventral side.
The inferior lamella approaches the superior ascends in a broad spiral curve and penetrates as deeply as the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed.
The principal plica is rather short lateral.
There are usually three palatal pHcse below the principal the upper well developed a very short plica below it.
There is no lunella but a lower palatal plica about as long as the upper is present fig.
3d.
Length 14.5 diam.
3.4 mm. 
13.8  3.0  The clausilium is strongly curved oblique and subangular at the apex a little excised at the columellar side of the filament fig.
3a 6.
Kuroshima Satsuma.
Types No.
95710 A. N. S. P. from No.
1589 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to C. digonoptyx Bttg. but diffei's by its palatal plicae and the more curved differently shaped clausilium.
It differs from C. subaculus by the better developed superior lamella and the different palatal armature.
C. aculus Bens of China and Korea is the most closely related species but it differs in sculpture  it has not the fine threadlike striation of C. tripleuroptyx  being more glossy paler colored and less opaque.
As in C. aculus the palatal armature varies.
In most examples seen there are three palatal plicae below the principal plica the second either pUciform or punctiform as in fig.
Sd.
Sometimes there are six plicae the 3d 4th and 5th very small scarcely visible inside by reflected light fig.
3e.
Section STBREOPHDUSA Boettger.
Clausilia japonica Crosse.
The typical form of this species is found around Tokyo.
The exact locality of the types was not known but the Tokyo shells agree so fully with them that this place may be considered the type locality.
The shells are coarsely ribstriate the striae simple not split and on the last whorl there are about five striae in one millimeter.
The spiral lamella penetrates inward to the middle of the ventral side the inferior lamella is much longer.
There are two palatal plicae an upper and lower below the principal and in some examples there is the weak rudiment of a lunella near the lower palatal plica and a second low nodule or plica just below the upper palatal plica.
The size of Tokyo specimens is rather variable.
Length 29.0 diam.
6.5 mm.
 whorls IH.
25.5  6.5   11.
26.5  6.2  '' 11.
The forms I described as var.
perstriata and var.
perobscura are close to typical japonica in sculpture.
It is hard to decide what forms of so variable a species call for special names.
Besides those now recognized there seem to be several races which may for the present remain und escribed.
The largest form of C. japonica I have seen was sent from Yakuenji Izumo by Mr. Hirase No.
1594.
The shell is rich chestnut colored when unworn about as finely striate as C. j. nipponensis and like that it has upper and lower palatal plicae only the lower one quite small.
The spiral lamella runs inward to the middle of the ventral side the inferior lamella being longer.
Except in having no sutural plica this form agrees with C. hilgendorfi Martens.
No other Stereophcedusa is known to have a sutural plica so that it is possible that its recorded presence in C hilgendorfi may be an abnormal development in which case this form is evidenth' C. hilgeyidorfi.
Specimens from Yakuenji Izumo measure Length 42.5 diam.
9 mm.
 whorls 12.
40.0  9 ''  11.
This Clausiha is surpassed in size only by certain forms of C. martensi.
Clausilia japonica kobensis Smith.
Clausilia kobensis E. A. Smith Quart.
Journ.
of Conch. I No.
8 p. 122 Feb. 1876.
Clausilia nipponensis Kobelt Jahrb.
D. M.
Ges. Ill 1876 p. 275 pi.
8 figs.
3 4.
Clausilia loxospira Martens in coll. Kobelt I.e. p. 277.
Clausilia japonica var.
nipponensis Kob. Bttg.
Jahrb.
D. M.
Ges. V 1878 p. 50 ClausiUum.
In western Hondo there is a rather weakly defined race described as kobensis Smith and nipponensis Kobelt these two names being synonymous and based on specimens from Kobe Setsu.
The striation is noticeably finer than in typical C. japonica.
The last whorl is frequently much compressed and the preceding whorl bulges giving a peculiar contour to the shell in dorsal view but this feature is variable.
There are always two palatal plicae below the principal one an upper and a lower.
There is often a whorl more than in typical C. japonica.
Clausilia japonica vespertina n. subsp.
PI.
XXX figs.
11.
12.
The shell is glossy chestnut colored large swollen in the lower half attenuated as usual above finely striate the striae often split or interrupted near the suture penultimate whorl inflated the last whorl compressed tapering downward.
The superior lamella is usually small short not reaching to the margin of the peristome and generally separated from the spiral lamella.
Palatal phcse two upper and lower principal phca usually shorter than in japonica.
Length 33.0 diam.
7.7 mm.
 whorls IH    .
. ''
31.2  7.7 ''  lOjTakuhisan.
32.2  8.2   IOHti 1 33.0  8.8   11 JTakazakiyama.
Nishinoshima Oki at Takazakiyama type loc.
and Takuhisan.
Types No.
95711 A. N. S P. from No.
1986 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This race differs from C. j. interplicata by the absence of intermediate palatal plicae between the upper and lower but it should be noted that some individuals of interplicata from Takeya Izumo also lack the intermediate plicae and then scarcely differ from this insular race from Oki.
It is also related to var.
kobensis.
Clausilia japonica ultima n. subsp.
PI.
XXX figs.
8 9.
The shell is much more slender and lengthened than C. japonica chestnut colored paler just below the suture verjglossy finely and regularly ribstriate about four strise in one mm.
on the last whorl the interstices of the striae minutely finely striate transversely.
Three or four early whorls are of about equal diameter the penultimate whorl is largest the last whorl compressed and tapering downward.
The spiral and inferior lamellae are very long extending inward past the front to the left side other lamellae as in japonica two palatal plicae an upper and a lower below the principal plica.
Length 29.3 diam.
5.5 mm.
 whorls 13.
27  5.2   13.
Nakamura Oki.
Types No.
95714 A. N. S. P. from No.
1566 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a very distinct race quite unlike any of the many forms of C. japonica known from the main island and Shikoku.
Like the preceding subspecies it is probably confined to the Oki Islands.
Clausilia Mckonis Kobelt Bttg.
Clausilia hickonis Kobelt Boettger Jahrb.
d. D. Malak.
Ges. V 1878 p. 55 pi.
3 fig.
7 with var.
binodifera Bttg. I.e. fig.
76 interior of Nippon.
C. hickonis Kobelt Fauna Japonica p. 86.
Clausilia snbjaponica Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1900 p. 679 Jan. 28 1901 Ibuki Omi.
Clausilia fultoni subsp.
davula von Moellendorff Nachrbl.
d. D. Malak.
Ges. April 1901 p. 41 Ibuki Omi.
This fine Stercophcedusa has some resemblance to C. Megalophcedusa.
vasta.
It is now known from Hakusan Kaga Kurozu and Tomisato Kii Ibuki Omi and on Shikoku from Nagaomura Sanuki.
The variety C. hickonis saucia Pils.
differs chiefly by its much coarser striation.
It was described from Sodayama Tosa and smaller examples have been taken at Naarimura Tosa No.
1010 of Mr. Hirase's collection 83901 A. N. S. P. Clausilia jacobiana jacobiella n. subsp PI.
XXXI figs.
3 4 5 6.
The shell is more slender than C. jacobiana and the last half of the last whorl is less coarsely striate.
There are short upper and lower palatal plicae but no lunella pi.
XXXI figs.
3 4 5.
Length 14.8 diam.
3.0 mm.
 whorls 9.
13.0  3.0   9.
12.7  2.9   8.
Akusekijima Osumi.
Types No.
95682 A. N. S. P. from No.
1547 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Nakanoshima and Suwanosejima.
Specimens from Nakanoshima are a little larger  Length 15.2 diam.
3.4 mm. whorls 9.
14.9  3.6  14.3  3.25   Shells from Suwanosejima are much smaller Length 12 diam.
2.9 to 3 mm.
 whorls 8 pi.
XXXI fig.
6.
Clausilia nishinosMmana n. sp.
PI.
XXXI fig.
7.
A Stereophcedusa of the group of C. hrevior.
The shell is fusiform tapering from the penultimate whorl considerably attenuated near the apex dull dark brown rather finely and sharply striate except the earher whorls which are worn.
Whorls 11 moderately convex the second third and fourth of about equal diameter the last compressed and tapering downward.
Aperture ovate the sinulus a little retracted.
Peristome brown tinted rather broadly reflexed recurved at the edge thick.
Superior lamella a little oblique marginal continuous with the spiral lamella which is high and lamellar in the middle low toward both ends and penetrates inward to a point above the outer lip.
The inferior lamella forms a rather strong fold in the throat and ascends in a broad spiral curve in the back where it is very wide.
It penetrates as deeply as the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lip edge.
The principal plica is weak short and lateral.
There are short upper and lower palatal plicse but no lunella fig.
4.
Length 18 diam.
3.9 mm.
The clausilium is strongly curved somewhat angular at the apex a little excised on the columellar side of the filament.
It is similar to the clausilium of C. hrevior Nishinoshima Oki.
Types No.
95689 A. N. S. P. from No.
1576 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is closely related to C. hrevior differing in the following respects  There are but two palatal plicse below the principal one which is much shorter than in C. hrevior the spire tapers for a longer distance and it is composed of more whorls.
Some individuals lose the early whorls closing the breach with a convex plug as in some Urocoptids.
The number of whorls retained may be reduced to six.
Among some hundreds of C. hrevior seen from six localities none were similarly truncate.
It is a rather unusual condition in Japanese Clausiliidce.
 See Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1901 pi.
38 figs.
52 53.
Section LUOHUPHDUSA Pilsbry.
Clausilia degenerata Pils.
Clausilia nakadai degenerata Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1904 p. 818 pi.
52 fig.
12 pi.
53 fig.
22.
The inadvertent use of Mr. Nakada's name twice in Clausilia makes it necessary to modify the later apphcation as above.
The former siibspecific name will become the name of the species while what was formerly described as typical C. nakadai requires a new name which being later becomes subspecific.
I am indebted to Mr. Hirase for calling my attention to the duplication.
The type of C. degenerata is No.
87593 A. N. S. P. from No.
1205 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
C. degenerata nakadiana n. n. Clausilia nakadai Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1904 p. 818 pi.
52 figs.
9 10 11 pi.
53 figs.
18 19.
Not C. variegata av.
nakadai Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1902 p. 328.
The type of C. d. nakadiana is No.
87594 A. N. S. P. from No.
1205a of Hirase's catalogue.
Section FORMOSANA Bttg.
This section has much affinity with HemiphBdusa and the closely related Megalophcedusa having the same long and narrow type of clausilium which however is slightly thickened at the end.
The palatal structure is primitive  a series of welldeveloped subequal plicae.
Three Formosan species known may be distinguished as follows  a.
 Shell rather obesely fusiform the diameter contained 3 to 4J times in the length whorls 9 to 11 the later ones closely and finely striate.
b.
 Whorls convex later whorls with waved striae southern Formosa.
c.  Color pale yellowish or very pale brownish pi.
XXXII figs.
4 8 9 C. formosensis A.
Ad.
c  Color dark reddish or purplish brown pi.
XXXII figs.
1 2 3 C.f.
hotawana Pils.
b.
 Wliorls flattened striae fine close and straight dark colored y northern Formosa pi.
XXXII figs.
7 10 11 C. sioinhoei H. Ad.
a  Shell long and narrow the diam.
contained 5 or 6 times in the length whorls 11 to 14 the later ones flattened with interrupted striae pi.
XXXII figs.
5 6 .
.
C. taiwanica Pils.
Clausilia formosensis H. Ad.
PI.
XXXII figs.
4 8 9.
This species belongs to southern Formosa while C. sioinhoei has been found only in the northern end of the island.
In color it varies from 570 Dec pale yellow to a pale reddishbrown tint.
Schmacker and Boettger have already described the close peculiarly waved or  vermiculate striation of the later whorls.
Figs.
8 9 are from Hotawa examples  fig.
4 is a smaller eroded form from Arikawa.
C. formosensis hotawana subsp.
nov. PI.
XXXII figs l 2 3.
The shell resembles C. formosensis in its rather obesely fusiform shape convex whorls close and sharp wavy striation and in the characters of aperture and interior but it differs by being dark reddishbrown or purplishbrown in color the apical whorls yellowishwhite lip white interior of the mouth purplebrown.
Old examples usually lose the apical whorls.
Length 28.0 diam.
7.8 mm.
 whorls 8 apex entire. 
29.7  7.5   8 remaining decollate.
Hotawa Formosa.
Types No.
90032 A. N. S P. from No.
1397 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The locality Hotawa given by us for C. swinhoei Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1905 p. 738 should be cancelled.
The record was based upon the specimens described above as C. .
hotawana.
So far as we know the true C. swinhoei has not been found at that place but only in the extreme north of the island.
Clausilia taiwanioa n. sp.
PI.
XXXII figa.
5 6.
The shell is cylindricturrite very long and slender dark purplebrown very glossy sculpture of rather fine low obhque striae cut into long granules by spiral impressions which cut the strise only and are noticeable only on the later 3 or 4 whorls  striation not coarser on the back of the last whorl.
Whorls 11 to 14 the earlier ones convex more or less worn in adult shells the last 3 or 4 whorls less convex last whorl compressed narrower than the preceding nearly straightsided rounded basally.
The aperture is ovate vertical very dark inFig.
5. side peristome pure white broadly reflexed.
Superior lamella high very obhque marginal continuous within with the spiral lamella which penetrates to a point above the upper angle of the aperture.
Inferior lamella forming a moderately prominent fold on the columella straightened and obliquely ascending in the back and as long within as the superior lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella barely emerging not extending upon the lip.
Principal plica about a half whorl long.
Palatal plicae 6 the lower five nearly equal lateral showing as a whitish streak outside fig.
5.
Length 36.2 diam.
6.0 mm.
 length of aperture 7.5 mm.
31.0  5.8    7  Clausilium narrow with nearly parallel sides the lower end rounded and somewhat thickened.
Taiwan Formosa at Taito or Hinan.
Types No.
94756 A. N. S. P. from No.
1492 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species has the dark color of C. swinhoei and agrees with that in the general structure of the aperture and internal plicae but it differs from that species by its long narrow shape greater number of whorls and the much more obsolete striation that of C. swinhoei being comparatively close fine and sharp and not interrupted into long granules as it is in C. taiwanica.
Section HEMIPHDUSA Boettger.
The type of this group is Clausilia pluviatilis Bens of China a form closely related to species of the Japanese group of C. platyauchen.
An arrangement of the Japanese species was given in these Proceedings for 1901 p. 623 and pp.
648651.
Subsequent studies have added many species and caused the removal of some originally included in HemiphcBclusa to form new sections  Nesiophcedusa Luchuphcedusa and Zaptyx.
Moreover it appears that the species with several palatal plicae are not separable from those with an Ishaped lunella cf.
C. tosana etc..
A new classification of the species is therefore in order Groups of Japanese Hemiphcedusce.
a.
 Lunella well developed curving inward above and below united to the middle of a straight or arched lower palatal phca.
Clausilium scarcely or not excised at the palatal side of the filament Group of C. platyauchen.
a.
 Clausilium deeply excised at the palatal side of the filament.
A lower palatal plica present or represented by an inward curve of the lower end of the lunella.
h.  Lunella well developed Jshaped the lower palatal plica represented only by the inward curve of its lower end.
Apical end of clausilium simple.
c.  Principal plica very small or wanting no upper palatal plica .Group of C. hyperolia.
572 Dec c  Principal plica well developed  a short upper palatal plica or the lunella bent inward in its place Group of C. awajiensis.
b.
 Lunella etc. as in the group of C. awajiensis but there is a lower palatal nodule at its lower end clausilium in apical view appearing deeply notched .
Group of C. aidacopoma.
6  Lunella either Ishaped or replaced by a series of palatal plicse Group of C. validiuscula.
fr.
 A short straight or nodulelike or rudimentary lunella not curving inward at the lower end below one or two palatal plicse no lower palatal plica.
Clausilium not excised at the palatal side of the filament .
.
.
Group of C. sublunellata.
Clausilia tosana Pils.
PI.
XXXI figs.
1420.
Proc.
A. N. S Phila. 1900 p. 680 pi.
25 figs.
2225 4L This species is now before us from five localities all on Shikoku Island.
It shows remarkable variation.
All have the last whorl Fig.
6.
 Clausilia tosana.
a typical form from Ushirohawa Tosa b variety from Shimohanyama Tosa c variety from Irazuyama Tosa.
built forward Cylindrellalike with a furrow outside above the principal plica and the subcolumellar lamella is always very deeply immersed.
Internally the spiral and subcolumellar lamellse are usually of equal length reaching inward to the middle of the ventral side and the inferior lamella between them is shorter.
1.
The types from Ushirokawa Tosa pi.
31 figs.
16 17 have several palatal plicse standing upon a ridge fig.
6a and measure Length 12.2 diam.
2.6 mm.
 whorls 10 11.0  2.5   U.
11.0. 
2.3   9.
10.5  2.5  2.
A lot from Shimohanyama Tosa pi.
31 figs.
18 19 also have several tubercular plicae on a distinct curved ridge fig.
6b but are larger Length 15.0 diam.
3.5 mm.
 whorls 9J.
12.3  3.0   9i.
3.
Those from Irazuyama Tosa pi.
31 fig.
20 have a well developed arcuate lunella between the upper and lower palatal plicae but hardlyjoined to either fig.
6c specimens measure Length 13.8 diam.
3 mm.
 whorls lOJ.
14.0  3   10.
4.
A lot from Nametoko lyo pi.
31 figs.
14 15 has a similar curved lunella and consists of specimens of two sizes obviously from two diverse stations.
The larger shells are more or less worn the cuticle mainly lost and measure 11.8 to 13.2 mm.
long.
The smaller shells are glossy with the cuticle perfect the lip is narrower and the subcolumellar lamella is not so long inside as the spiral.
They measure  Length 9.4 diam.
2.2 mm.
 whorls 8f .
8.9  2.1   gi 5.
At Kotsuzan Awa the curved lunella is also perfect as in 3 and 4 The lip is better developed than in the smaller specimens from Nametoko lyo.
Specimens measure Length 10 diam.
2.3 mm.
 whorls 9.
9  2.0   si These lots show that multifarious differentiation with consequent formation of local races is in progress but in the present condition of our knowledge it would probably be inexpedient to recognize these races by name.
Clausilia pigra Pils.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1902 p. 368 Kashima Harima.
Specimens received from Nagami Iwami and Yakuenji Izumo differ slightly from the types.
The aperture is built forward a little less and the lunella differs somewhat being shaped more as in the group of C. platyauchen there being a ver short lower palatal plica and the upper palatal plica is represented only by an inward bend of the lunella whereas in the types of pigra the upper plica stands almost free of the lunella and the whole structure is somewhat Jshaped rather than Ishaped as originally described.
Clausilia ikiensis tsushimana n. subsp.
PI.
XXXI figs.
8 9 10.
Shell somewhat larger and more robust than C. ikiensis the subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed  outer end of the lower palatal plica joining the lunella.
37 574 Dec Length 14.5 diam.
3.2 mm.
 whorls 11. ti 13.5 '' 3.5 ''  9. ii 12.2  3.0  Length 15.0 diam.
3.4 mm.
 whorls 10.
 15.0  3.4  '' 11. ii 12.7 '' 3.25   9.
Izuliara  Tsushima.
Types No.
95701 Iziihara.
Tsutsu.
A. N. S. P. from No.
1550 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Tsutsu and Kashitake Tsushima.
The specimens vary remarkably in contour.
Three examples from Tsutsu are figured.
Clausilia hemileuca n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig 6 PI.
XXXI fig.
ii.
The shell is long and rather slender the upper half tapering and attenuate glossy finely and distinctly striate the earliest whorls worn lower half of each whorl dark reddishbrown upper half white the base of the last whorl and a streak over the lunella also white.
Whorls about 10 moderately convex the second third and fourth of about equal diameter last whorl flattened laterally.
Aperture Fig.
7 Clausilia hemileuca.
ovate the sinulus shghtly retracted.
Peristome expanded and reflexed thick white notched over the superior lamella which is compressed vertical and marginal continuous with the spiral lamella which is rather high and penetrates inward to a point above the outer lip.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply but in oblique view is visible as a fold within the throat  in the back it ascends obliquely being slightly sigmoid and it is thickened below.
It penetrates less deeply than the superior lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is deeply immersed not visible in the mouth.
The principal plica is about a half whorl long approaching the aperture.
Upper palatal plica short and curved not connected with the oblique curved lunella fig.
76.
Length 18.5 di am.
3.7 mm.
17.0  3.8  The clausiliiim figs la c is narrow and tapers rather strongly toward the rounded apex the palatal margin being decidedly convex.
It is excised on the columellar side of the filament and is rather strongly curved throughout.
Oetakayama Iwami.
Types No.
95705 A. N. S. P. from No.
1600 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Only six specimens of this handsome Hemiphccdnsa were taken.
In coloration it resembles C. holotrema.
No other Japanese Hemiphcedusa is similarly colored.
The separation of the upper palatal plica from the lunella and the shape of the clausilium are further distinguishing features.
Section HBMIZAPTYX Pilsbry.
Clausilia ptychocyma Pils.
In specimens from Kuroshima the subcolumellar lamella emerges on the lip but is rather weak and the spiral and inferior lamellae are longer than in the types running inward to a point above the termination of the outer lip.
They measure 11.2 to 12.5 mm.
Clausilia agna spicata n. subsp.
PI.
XXXI figs.
12 13.
The shell resembles C. agna in its smooth surface and translucent texture and in having the subcolumellar lamella weakly emerging or at least visible in an oblique view in the mouth but it differs by being longer and more slender similar in shape to C. purissima.
It may be either clear greenishcorneous like C. purissima chestnut brown or very pale brown.
C. agna spicata differs from C. purissima by its emerging subcolumellar lamella.
The shell is also stronger when adult.
Length 12.0 diam.
2.3 mm.
 whorls 9  12.2  2.7  '' 9i I u jQ y  2 2   8Akuseki.
9.7  2.0   8iJ 11.0  2.3   9 q o u 2 3   71  Kichinoerabu.
Akusekijima Osumi.
Types No.
95709 A. N. S. P. from No.
663e of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also taken at Kuchinoerabushima Osumi.
No.
90023 A. N. S. P. from No.
663rf of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This race stands between C. agna described from Yakushima and C. purissima from Miyakejima Izu and shows that these two species widely separated geographically are in reality very closely related.
The Miyakejima form has a very deeply immersed subcolumellar lamella but otherwise hardly differs from pale long specimens of C. a. spicata.
In C. agna the lunella only weakly joins the upper palatal plica.
This is not well shown in the original figure.
Section HETEROZAPTYX Pils.
Clausilia oxypomatioa Pils.
Specimens received from Ogachi Oshima are smoother than the type of this species the striation rather indistinct except on the last whorl and the clausilium is quite perceptibly broader.
iLength 12 diam.
2.8 mm.
 whorls 9.
11  2.6   6.'
Section ZAPTYX Pilsbry.
In this section we group numerous closely related forms distributed throughout the Ryukyu chain from the Southwestern Group to Kagoshima Bay.
Key to Species of Zaptyx s. str.
a.
 Upper palatal plica very long spiral lamella reduced to a short lamella in the region of the lunella.
b.
 10.5 to 12.5 mm.
long with 9 to 10 whorls striatulate.
Ryukyu C. dolichoptyx.
b.
 8.5 to 9.5 mm.
long with 8 to 8 whorls  last half whorl sharply and finely striate.
Ryukyu C. d. micra.
t.
 Upper palatal plica moderate or short much shorter than the lunella.
h.  Subcolumellar lamella wholly immersed whorls quite convex smoothish but finely and sharply striate behind the lip.
c.  9 to 10 mm.
long 2.2 to 2.3 wide.
Okinoerabushima C. sarissa.
c.
 8 to 9 mm.
long 2 to 2.1 wide last two whorls less convex.
Nakanoshima C. nakanoshimana.
b.
 Subcolumellar lamella emerging whorls less convex c.  Upper palatal plica very short inferior lamella not continuous within with the lamella inserta.
d.  Last 3 or 4 whorls finely and sharpty striate superior and spiral lamellae weakly continuous.
Yaeyama C. yaeyamensis.
d.
 Smoothish throughout or only the last whorl striate superior and spiral lamellae widely separated.
e.  Smoothish early whorls not attenuate Satsuma C hirasei.
.
 Back of last whorl striate spire attenuate above Kikai Tokuno C. kikaiensis.
c.
 Upper palatal plica moderate inferior lamella continuous with the lamella inserta penetrating inward as far as the spiral lamella fulcrum and parallel lamella well developed .
apex larger than the preceding species.
d.  Shell smoothish last whorl more or less striate.
Ryukyii Yoronjima C. hyperoptyx.
d.
 Last 3 or 4 whorls sharply striate.
Sezokojima Ryukyu C. h. sezokoensis.
Clausilia nakanoshimana n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig.
2.
The shell is small and slender the lower half cylindric upper half tapering slowly to the rather large and obtuse apex pale brown somewhat transparent thin glossy faintly striatulate becoming distinctly striate behind the outer lip.
Whorls 7 to 7 the earlier ones quite convex the last two much less so last whorl convex below but not saccate.
The aperture is broadly oval  peristome white reflexed and rather thick continuous.
The superior lamella is marginal subvertical not continuous with the spiral lamella.
Spiral lamella is very low and threadlike and extends inward only slightly beyond the j jg  lateral line.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply being visible as a prominent fold in an oblique view in the aperture inside it ascends nearly vertically is very broad and a little curved rather abruptly terminating above not continued on the parietal wall but reappearing as a minute lamella near the inner end of the spiral lamella.
The subcolumellar lamella is rather deeply immersed.
The principal plica is dorsal and lateral.
Upper palatal plica short connected to the oblique nearly straight lunella.
There are two delicate sutural plicae and a minute parallel lamella fig.
8.
Length 9 diam.
2.1 mm.
 whorls 7f. 
8  2.0   7. 
8  2.0   7i The clausihum is narrow rather long rounded at the apex rather straight except near the filament where it bends abruptly.
It is deeply excised at the columellar side of the filament and broadly dilated at the palatal side.
Nakanoshima Osumi.
Types No.
95687 A. N. S. P. from No.
1517 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is closely related to C. sarissa Pils.
of Okinoerabushima.
It differs by the more slender shell with the last two whorls less convex and the clausilium a httle more slender and slightly twisted near the apex.
Clausilia yaeyamensis Pils.
Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 19G4 p. 831.
Previously reported from Yaeyama now sent from Yonakunijima 578 Dec. the westernmost of the Sakishima or Southwestern Group of islands and the nearest one to Formosa.
The specimens measure 8.5 to 9.7 mm.
While very closely related to C. hyperoptyx sezokoensis of Sezokojima Kunchan Loochoo this form is separable by the inferior lamella which is short inside its inner end being separated as a lamella inserta while in C. hyperoptyx the inferior lamella is continued within parallel to the spiral lamella.
This rather minute distinction is constant in the specimens I have opened and in connection with the geographic isolation may be held of specific significance.
Clausilia hyperoptyx sezokoensis n. subsp.
The shell differs from C. hyperoptyx b' having the last 4 or 5 whorls densely striate as in C. yaeyamensis.
Internally it is like C. hyperoptyx the inferior lamella being continued inward parallel with the spiral lamella.
Sezokojima an islet on the west side of Kunchan Loochoo.
Types No.
89884 A. N. S. P. from No.
457d of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Sezokojima or Sesokojima is similar to the adjacent peninsula of Okinawa geologically being formed of raised reefs around a center of palaeozoic limestone.
Section STBRBOZAPTYX Pilsbry.
Clausilia exodonta n. sp.
Figs.
9 10.
The shell is slender fusiform solid and strong dull yellow smoothish the last third of the last whorl strongly striate.
Wliorls 8 moderately convex the last compressed at the sides tapering toward the base built forward free of the preceding whorl.
Apex rather acute.
Aperture oblique small piriform the peristome broadly expanded and reflexed.
Sinulus slightly retracted oval nearly separated from the aperture by a strong conical tooth within the outer lip which approaches the lower end of the superior lamella.
Superior lamella oblique high but not penetrating far inward separated from the spiral lamella which is a ily low plate in a lateral position penetrating inward to .AY a point above the columellar lip.
Inferior lamella    receding visible as a strong fold in the aperture strong high and strongly spiral within the back much shorter within than the spiral lamella.
Subcolumellar lamella Fig.
10. very deeply immersed.
Principal plica very short weak and lateral.
Lunella low above becoming very strong toward its lower end which is thickened and curves inward fig.
10.
There is a short tubercular fulcrum but no sutural plicse.
Length 9.8 diam.
2 mm.
The clausilium is broad above tapering to the apex which projects somewhat.
It is strongly curved throughout Vshaped in section near the apical end dilated on the palatal side near both ends and deeply excised on the columellar side of the filament as usual.
Sumiyoho Oshima Osumi.
Types No.
95690 A. N. S. P. from No.
1504 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This very distinct little species is more slender than C. entospira or C. exulans and differs from all known Japanese species by having a conical tooth at the upper third of the outer lip forming with the superior lamella an oval sinulus.
Section PARAZAPTYX Pils.
Clausilia thaumatopoma Pils.
Originally described from Kumejima this species has also been found on the island of Kerama Keramajima.
in several places  Tokashiki Zamami and Tokashikijima.
Most of the specimens from this island are more slender than the types with more whorls yet some agree with typical thaumatopoma in these respects so that a subspecific separation seems impracticable.
The measurements of several specimens follow Length 11.0 diam.
2.4 mm.
 whorls 9   '  i j Kumejmia. 
10  Tokshiki  7f I Keramajima.
 '  Zamami    Keramajima. 
9 I Tokashikijima  8i i Keramajima.
The sculpture and the internal structure seem to be practically the same throughout the series of 23 examples examined.
Section METAZAPTYX Pilsbry.
The shell is similar to Zaptyx in having sutural plicse fulcum and parallel lamella.
The inferior lamella is very broad loithin ascends 10.5 ' 2.3 11.3 ' 2.0 9.7 ' 2.0 10.8 ' 2.4 10.8 ' 2.2 9.2  2.2 10.0 ' 2.0 8.8 ' 1.9 spirally and is visible in oblique view in the mouth as a strong fold approaching the superior lamella.
Spiral lamella very low throughout.
Base of the shell conspicuously full and sacklike the latter part of the last whorl sharply striate.
Clausihum broad throughout rounded at the apex strongly bent near the middle.
Type C. pattalus.
This group differs from Zaptyx by the shape of the inferior lamella and the saccate base of the shell and by the shape of the clausilium which is strongly bent near the middle while in Zaptyx it is nearly flat except close to the filament.
It differs from Stereozaptyx by the shape of the clausihum which is broad at the distal or lower end in Metazaptyx tapering in Stereozaptyx.
Also by the base of the shell which is not saccate in Stereozaptyx.
The inferior lamella sometimes continues on the base of the penultimate whorl as a slender thread parallel to the spiral lamella occasionally penetrating deeper than the latter but this threadlike continuation may be absent or interrupted.
The spiral lamella is remarkably low throughout.
As in Zaptyx the species are closely related and rather difficult.
The shape of the clausihum is often characteristic.
Both Zaptyx and Metazaptyx are widely ranging groups in the islands between Kyushu and Formosa.
The following species belong to Metazaptyx Southwestern Group of the Ryukyu Islands.
C. pattalus Pils.
Taramajima.
C. p. miyakoensis Pils.
Miyakojima.
dshima Group Osumi.
C. dcemonorum Pils.
Ekaigashima.
C. d. viva Pils.
Tokunoshima.
Tokara Group Osumi.
C. tokarana Pils.
Suwanosejima to Tokarajima.
C. t. saccatibasis Pils.
Nakanoshima Kuchinoshima.
Izushichitojima Izu.
C. hachijoensis Pils.
Hachijojima and Niijima.
Clausilia tokarana n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig.
3.
The shell is cyhndric below above tapering to the small but obtuse apex hght brown weakly striatulate nearly smooth the last third 1908 581 Fig.
11.
a b C. tokarana c C. t. saccatibasis short form.
of the last whorl finely and rather sharply striate.
Whorls 7 to 9 slightly convex the last flattened at the sides very convex and somewhat sacklike at the base.
The aperture is rhombic peristome thin very narrowly reflexed continuous.
Superior lamella is small thin and vertical continuous with the spiral lamella which is low and threadlike throughout and continues inward to a point above the columella.
The inferior lamella recedes deeply and is visible as a prominent fold in an oblique view in the mouth.
Inside it is broad and ascends in a spiral curve it is continued low and threadlike parallel to the spiral lamella and penetrates more deeply than that.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges weakly.
The principal plica is short dorsolateral.
The very short or subobsolete upper palatal plica joins the very oblique slightly curved lunella.
Sutural plicae fulcrum and parallel plica are well developed fig.
11 a.
Length 11 diam.
2.8 mm.
 whorls 8.
9  2.25   1.
The clausilium fig.
116 is broad parallelsided rounded at the apex strongly curved in the middle dilated on the palatal side of the filament.
Suwanosejima Osumi.
Types No.
95678 A. N. S. P. from No.
1592a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Tokarajima No.
1592 of Mr. Hirase's collection and Akusekijima No.
1548 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This species is related to C. t. saccatihasis but the apical whorls are smaller the penultimate whorl is much less swollen in.
a dorsal view the shell is less distinctly striate and is paler.
The principal plica is shorter in C. tokarana.
In the specimens from Tokarajima the superior and spiral lamellae are separated and the inward continuation of the inferior lamella parallel to the spiral lamella is only very weakly developed scarcely noticeable.
They constitute a weakly differentiated race.
In those from the intermediate island Akusekijima the superior and spiral lamellae .
are weakly continuous  being therefore intermediate in structure as well as in geographic position between the forms from Suwanose and Tokara islands.
Several specimens measure as follows Length 11.9 diam.
2.8rnm.
 whorls 8 J.
10.0  2.9  '' s'.
11.0  2.5   9.
Clausilia tokarana and its variety saccatibasis were taken in some profusion and probably inhabit the whole Tokara group of islets being known from Kuchinoshima Nakanoshima Suwanosejima Akusekijima and Tokarajima.
All of these islands are of volcanic origin the country rock being andesite.
Nakano and Suwanose have active volcanoes while the others have extinct craters or traces of them.
Clausilia tokarana saccatibasis n. subsp.
PI.
XXX figs.
4 5.
The shell is somewhat fusiform the upper half tapering and attenuate the last two whorls of about equal diameter strong and solid glossy rich purplishhrowji with a paler or light band along the suture indistinct in some specimens but especially conspicuous in the earlier whorls which are corneous with a median dark band.
Wliorls 9 to 9 quite convex the second disproportionately large the penultimate whorl swollen in a view from the back the last very convex below sacklike its last half much compressed laterally.
Aperture ovate.
Peristome white reflexed more or less thickened continuous the upper margin notched over the superior lamella.
The superior lamella is small compressed and vertical continuous with the spiral lamella which is very low throughout and penetrates inward but little past a lateral position.
The inferior lamella is deeply immersed but visible in an oblique view in the mouth as a high lamella.
It is a strongly spiral wide plate within the back of the last whorl but decreases suddenly above where it joins the parietal wall then becoming a low cord parallel to the spiral lamella and of the same length inside.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges to the lipedge.
It does not extend upon the parietal wall inside.
The principal plica is short mainly dorsal extending to the lateral line.
The upper palatal plica is very short connected with the lateral lunella which is strong long its lower and curving far inward.
There are two small sutural plicae a moderately long parallel lamella and a short fulcrum.
Length 12.5 to 13.5 diam.
3.0 mm.
11  2.9  The clausiHiim is quite broad rounded at the apex deeply excised on the cokimellar side of the filament.
Its curvature is chiefly in the part near the filament.
Nakanoshima Osumi.
Types No.
95679 A. N. S. P. from No.
1515 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Kuchinoshima.
The type lot consists of very handsome glossy dark colored shells but there are some gray corroded specimens among them apparently from a different situation.
The smallest measures length 11.5 diam.
3 mm. and has the penultimate whorl strongly swollen the last whorl compressed fig.
llc.
This form is closely related to C. tokarana but differs by its darker color swollen penultimate whorl etc.
It also resembles C. pattalus of Taramajima and Miyakoshima but it differs by having the penultimate whorl more swollen the principal plica shorter and the subcolumellar lamella emerges.
In both species the second whorl appears disproportionately large.
Examples from Kuchinoshima are corroded and dull and have the superior lamella separated rather broadly from the spiral lamella otherwise they do not differ from the types.
The subspecies saccatihasis is confined to the two northern islands of the Tokara group.
Section IDIOZAPTYX n. sect.
The shell is Zaptychoid externally.
Superior lamella small separated from the much reduced spiral lamella.
Inferior lamella receding massive almost straightly ascending within.
Upper palatal plica long the lunella descending from near its inner end and joining the inner end of the lower palatal plica fulcrum and parallel lamella short but distinct sutural plicae developed.
Clausilium excised and bent near the filament parallelsided rounded at the apex.
Type C. idioptyx.
This section is related to Diceratoptyx but it differs in having a welldeveloped lunella joining the lower palatal pUca in the straightly ascending inferior lamella and the very different clausilium which is hke that of Zaptyx.
2 Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1904 p. 836.
To the diagnosis of Diceratoptyx should be added .
a small lower palatal plka is developed  the inferior lamella ascends in a broad sigmoid curve.
584 Dec Clausilia idioptyx n. sp.
PI.
XXX fig.
i.
The shell is quite small fusiform brownishyellow somewhat translucent surface glossy weakly striatulate nearly smooth becoming strongly and coarsely striate behind the outer lip.
The spire tapers regularly from the penultimate whorl to the obtuse apex.
Whorls 8 to 8 convex the last one compressed tapering to the base.
Aperture ovate with distinct somewhat retracted sinulus.
Peristome reflexed continuous.
Superior lamella very low obtuse short very widely separated from the spiral lamella which is minute and lateral in position.
Inferior lamella deeply receding its base visible as a low fold in an oblique view in the aperture.
Within the back it is straight massive and ascends obhquely terminating abruptly on reaching the parietal partition.
The subcolumellar lamella emerges very weakly and in a lateral position it forms an ascending angle visible by transparence from the outside.
Fulcrum and parallel lamella'are visible as two equal short white folds about as far inward as the lunella.
The principal plica runs from near the mouth to a little beyond the lateral line.
The upper palatal plica is long diverging forwardly from the principal plica its lower end visible in the aperture.
The lower palatal plica Fig.
12.
C Fig.
13.
 Clausilium of C. idiophix.
is short parallel to the upper.
Its inner end abuts against the lunella which joins the upper palatal plica near its inner end.
There are two distinct sutural plicae and a very weak one between them as usual fig.
12.
Length 9.0 diam.
1.9 mm.
7.8  1.8  The clausilium fig.
13 is bent rather abruptly near the filament parallelsided the apex rounded the external face is somewhat swollen inside concave.
It is excised on the columellar side near the filament.
Nase Oshima Osumi.
Types No.
95681 A. N. S. P. from No.
1505 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
With a general resemblance to Clausilia dadoptyx this species is entirely distinct from all known forms in the structure of the closing apparatus.
Explanation of Plates XXX XXXI XXXII.
Plate XXX Fig.
1  Clausilia idioptyx Pils.
Fig.
2  Clausilia nakanoshimana Pils.
Fig.
3Figs.
4 5Fig.
6 Fig.
7 Figs 8 9Fig.
10 Figs 11 li tokarana Pils.
tokarana saccatibasis Pils.
hemileuca Pils.
echo Pils.
japonica ultima Pils.
nakadce Pils.
japonica vespertina Pils.
Plate XXXI  Figs.
1 2  Clausilia tripleuroptyx Pils.
Figs.
35  Clausilia jacobianajacobiella Pils.
Akusekijima.
Fig.
6     Pils.
Suwanosejima.
Fig.
7  nishinoshimana Pils.
Figs.
810    ikiensis tsushimana Pils.
Fig.
11   hemileuca Pils.
Figs.
12 13  agna spicata Pils.
Figs 14 15   tosana Pils.
Nametoko lyo.
Figs 16 17     Ushirohawa Tosa.
Figs 18 19    Sliimohanyama Tosa.
Fig.
20     Irazuyama Tosa.
Plate XXXII  Figs.
1 2 3  Clausilia formosensis hotawana Pils Fig.
4  Clausilia formosensis H. Ad.
Arikawa.
Figs 5 6   taiwanica Pils.
Fig.
7   sivinhoei H. Ad.
Iuirun.
Figs.
8 9   formosensis H. Ad.
Hotawa.
Figs.
10 11   sioinhoei H. Ad.
Suganiikei.
NEW LAND MOLLUSCA OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND Y. HIRASE.
The present contribution includes species from the main island of Japan the Bonin Islands Ryukyu Islands and Formosa.
Recent explorations in the Tokara Group small volcanic islets between Oshima and Yakushima have filled a gap in our knowledge of the land snails of the northeastern islands of the Ryukyu Curve the Clausiliidce and operculate shells being especially interesting.
Spiropoma japonicum tsushimanum n. subsp.
The spire is slightly higher than in japonicum and the last whorl descends more to the aperture.
The cuticle is extremely finely and densely striate duller and darker than in japonicum finally the columellar margin of the peristome is retracted more.
Alt.
8 diam.
14.2 nam. 
6.1  11.7 '' Izuhara Tsushima.
Types No.
95762 A. N. S. P. from No.
1447a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The several species and local forms of Spiropoma are only very slightly differentiated and while the races of Tsushima Quelpart etc. have a certain individuality appreciable to the eye their differences are of no great importance.
The generic type seems to be very conservative and inflexible.
Alycaeus tsushimanus n. sp.
The shell is quite depressed otherwise shaped as usual in the subgenus Chamalycceus very pale reddishbrown or whitish.
Spire low convex the apex projecting a little brown.
Whorls 3 the first 1 smooth the rest sculptured with extremely delicate close threadstriae just before the constriction of the neck the striation is distinctly stronger and on the neck it is more or less obsolete.
Later part of the last whorl is moderately swollen then contracted.
Beyond the contraction the neck is swollen in the middle then descends a little to the aperture.
The sutural tube is rather long and very closely appressed as if partially melted into the suture.
The aperture is very oblique circular.
The peristome is strongly expanded and refiexed its face thickened and convex the outer edge somewhat recurved.
It is appressed for a short distance to the preceding whorl.
The rather wide umbiHcus is eUiptical.
Alt.
3 diam.
5.8 mm.
The operculum is somewhat concave externally and its whorls bear elevated cuticular appendages or raised cordlike spirals wanting in the depressed central part which is generally filled with dirt.
Tsutsu Tsushima.
Types No.
95737 A. N. S. P. from No.
1553 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is larger than other known Japanese species with a more broadly expanded peristome.
It is related to the Korean A. cyclophoroides Pils.
and Hir. but differs by having a distinct swelling in the middle of the neck and in some minor details of sculpture and shape.
By the characters of the operculum it belongs to the subgenus Metalycceus.
In a race of the same species found at Sasuna Tsushima the shell is smaller the diameter varying from 4 to 5 mm.
This small form is No.
95738 A. N. S. P. No.
1553a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Alycaeus tokunoshimanus principialis n. subsp.
The shell is much larger than A. tokunoshimanus more or less deeply reddishyellow tinted above nearly white beneath the embryonic whorls golden.
Whorls 3 the last half of the last whorl very much inflated then contracted into a rather small neck beyond which the whorl is strongly deflexed.
Very closely and finely thread striate more closely so on the inflated portion.
Neck strongly bent downward.
Peristome strongly reflexed thickened and bevelled on the face columellar border much narrower its outer edge more or less straightened.
Alt.
3.3 diam.
5 mm.
Ogachi Oshima Osumi.
Types No.
95830 A. N. S. P. from No.
13306 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is the finest development of the tokunoshimanus series.
That species was originally described from the smallest of the several forms now known.
Alycaeus tokunoshimanus mediocrii n. subsp.
The shell is decidedly larger than A. tokunoshimanus with the neck bent downward more and more coarsely striate in front of the contraction.
The sculpture of the neck is also coarser than A. t. principialis.
Alt.
2.9 diam.
4.5 mm.
Yorojima Osumi.
Types No.
89926 A. N. S. P. from No.
1330 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also found on Ikejijima No.
89927 A. N. S. P. and 1330a coll.
Hirase.
Alycaeus laevis n. sp.
A ChamalyccBus resembling A. tokunoshimanus in general form openly umbilicate spire low conoiclal the first whorl projecting.
Whorls 3 regularly increasing to the middle of the last whorl where it rapidly enlarges becoming much inflated.
The inflation is terminated by a moderately contracted neck which curves down to the aperture.
There is a prominent swelling around the neck in the middle.
The tube is rather long and pressed into the suture.
The surface is smooth lightly marked with growthlines but on the inflation there are distinct fine and close strise.
The neck is smooth and glossy.
The aperture is very oblique peristome expanded usually dilated to form a short lobe at the posterior angle.
In fully mature individuals an inner rim is built out shortly beyond the expansion.
Alt.
3 diam.
4 mm.
Nakanoshima Osumi.
Types No.
95831 A. N. S. P. from No.
1514 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It occurs also on Suwanosejima.
In having a smooth surface marked with sHght growthlines only becoming striate on the inflation this species is very distinct from other Japanese and Ryukyuan forms.
The rounded swelling on the neck is a further distinguishing character.
Diplommatina paxillus ultima n. subsp.
The shell is somewhat more robust than D. paxillus from Shanghai or Cheju Quelpart.
The peristome is less angular at the foot of the columella  only very indistinctly so.
The peristome is doubled or there is a wrinkle or two behind the outer lip.
Adults vary from reddishbrown to nearly white.
Kashitake Tsushima.
Types No.
95662 A. N. S. P. from No.
1554a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also taken at Kojeto Island of Koje Korea No.
95660 A. N. S. P. from No.
1531 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
D. paxillus Gredler is a very widely distributed species ranging from Hunan to the Korean Archipelago with closely related forms in Formosa and Tsushima.
In the present state of our collections it is not easy to define subspecies.
A form from Mokpo Korea No.
1531a of Mr. Hirase's collection is similar to the shells from Koje Island except that there is a distinct angle at the foot of the columella.
The form from Quelpart is very close to typical Chinese D. paxillus.
Diplommatina yonakunijimana n. sp.
The shell is narrow the penultimate whorl much the largest those above tapering in a rather long cone with straight sides pale brown sculpture of delicate threadlike striae wanting in the region of the constriction and on the last half or more of the last whorl.
There are 8 whorls the first 5 convex regiilarl'and slowly increasing  the next enlarges more rapidly and is the widest most convex whorl.
It contracts suddenly to the constriction which lies onefourth of a whorl back of the peristome.
The front of the last whorl has very widely spaced strise when unworn but the last half is smooth and glossy.
It ascends very little.
The palatal pUca is short.
It is faintly visible above the suture in the thinnest shells but most adults are too opaque to show it externally.
The aperture is subcircular somewhat obhque.
Parietal callus thin its edge scarcely thickened ascending about half way to the suture.
Columellar lamella thin and small its spiral continuation inward being thin and rather low.
Length 3.1 diam.
1.4 mm.
Yonakunijima Osumi.
Types No.
95675 A. N. S. P. from No.
1510 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
In this species the last fourth of the penultimate whorl in front of the constriction is very narrow.
It is related to D. kumejimana P. and H. but differs by its far more widely spaced riblets.
Diplommatina okiensis tsushimana n. subsp.
The shell is like D. collarifera S. and B. in shape but differs as follows The delicate threadlike strise of the last two whorls are more widely spaced and on the next earlier two whorls they are still more spaced.
The palatal plica is very short and lies under the parietal callus.
The spiral columellar lamella within the last whorl is thin and much lower than in collarifera.
D. okiensis is very similar but tsushimana differs by having the strise more widely spaced throughout.
The shell is pale brown and resembles okiensis in the aperture and collar.
Length 3.9 diam.
1.9 mm.
 whorls 6.
Tsutsu Tsushima.
Types No.
95664 A. N. S. P. from No.
1554 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Diplommatina nesiotica n. sp.
A species of the subgenus Sinica.
The lower two whorls form a cylindric portion those above taper rapidly in a straightsided cone about onethird the total length of the shell.
It is pale red or grayishwhite with sculpture of very dehcate hairhke strise which are rather closely placed on the last two whorls more spaced on the two preceding.
Whorls slightly exceeding 6 quite convex regularly and slowly widening to the penultimate which enlarges rapidly and is more swollen.
It contracts rather strongly to the constriction which varies in position from submedian in front to nearly over the inner edge of the columella.
38 The last whorl ascends moderately to the lip and is usually worn nearly smooth.
The palatal plica is short and either wholly to the left of the parietal callus or its inner half may be under the callus.
The aperture is rounded a little longer than wide.
Peristome thin rather narrowly reflexed sometimes very indistinctly subangular at the base of the columella.
The parietal callus spreads rather extensively upward and has a thin raised edge.
The columellar tooth is so deeply immersed that it is not visible in a front view.
Length 3 diam.
1.8 mm.
Suwanosejima Osumi.
Types No.
95668 A. N. S. P. from No.
1587 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also found on the adjacent islands Akusekijima and Nakanoshima of the Tokara group.
This species is related to D. saginata of Oshima and D. tanegashimce of Tanegashima both of them much smaller species.
D. tanegashimce is also more slender.
D. saginata is a common and characteristic species of Oshima.
It is very similar toD.
nesiotica but always much smaller so far as present collections show.
Specimens from Akusekijima and Nakanoshima are a trifle smaller than the types from the intermediate island Suwanosejima measuring 2.5 to 2.8 mm.
long.
The palatal phca is slightly longer and in some specimens the columellar tooth is visible in a front view.
Diplommatina hirasei Pilsbry n. sp.
The shell is large for a Sinica the last two whorls form more than half the total length are cylindric upper portion conic with straight sides.
Whorls fully 6 moderately convex the last strongly ascending in front having a very strong narrow ridge or collar a short distance behind the lip the back of the collar opaque whitish.
Constriction very slight median in front.
Color dull red.
Sculpture of very delicate hairlike striae closer and finer on the last two whorls than on the preceding two and usually worn from fully adult shells.
The aperture is circular orange colored within peristome reflexed and somewhat thickened continued in a raised ledge across the parietal wall reaching to or almost to the suture.
Palatal plica rather long and wholly covered by the parietal callus.
Columellar tooth strong the lamella within moderately high but thin.
Internal parietal lamella low.
Length 4.75 diam.
2.5 mm.
Gakuenji Izumo.
Types No.
95670 A. N. S. P. from No.
1596 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Makuragisan Izumo No.
95669 A. N. S. P. This largest of the Japanese Diplommatinas is in every way more robust than D. collarifera S. and B. or D. okiensis V. and H. It further differs by having the parietal callus extended nearly to the suture and the palatal phca lies wholly or almost wholly under the parietal callus.
Eulota Euhadra contraria n. sp.
The shell is depressed biconvex umbilicate angular at the periphery thin greenishyellow with a narrow dark redbrown band on the peripheral angle and narrowly visible above the suture on the last 1 whorls inner whorls suffused with reddishbrown.
Surface but slightly shining.
First If whorls forming the embryonic shell are convex with a close sculpture of low granules arranged in obliquely descending series.
The next H whorls have weak growthlines and minute rather closely arranged papillae scarcely noticeable in some specimens.
The last two whorls have irregular growthlines and some shallow irregular spiral sulci most obvious on the base there are also minute papillse visible in places.
Whorls 5 the first H convex the rest convex below the suture then flattened.
The last whorl scarcely descends in front and is convex below.
The aperture is oblique wide lunate.
Peristome white the upper margin expanded the outer and basal margins rather narrowly reflexed.
The parietal callus is extremely thin.
Alt.
15. diam.
26 mm. 
14.3  25  Koshun South Formosa.
Types No.
95838 A. N. S. P. from No.
1581 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a species of the E. succincta group.
E. formosensis differs by being more elevated  with the lip sinuous above and in having very minute spiral striation on the last whorl.
E. succincta is more compact with the last whorl narrower viewed from above and the umbilicus is much smaller.
The sculpture also differs in various details.
A specimen of E. contraria a little less mature than the type has the last whorl reddishbrown the spire paler.
It is banded like the type specimen.
Only 10 examples of this fine snail were taken.
Eulota Euhadra picta n. sp.
The shell is rather narrowly umbilicate somewhat depressed with conic spire rather solid pale yellow with two broad dark reddishbrown bands the upper band extending from just below the periphery half way to the suture and ascending the spire above the suture the last 2 or 2 whorls are therefore bicolored above on earlier whorls the band becomes light reddishbrown and spreads over the surface of the whorls.
The basal band is wider than the other fading out on its inner edge.
There is also a small umbilical patch of the same dark color.
The surface is somewhat glossy the first 4 whorls having a microscopic sculpture of minute raised points regularly arranged as in Chloritis last whorl marked with growthlines not punctate.
Wiiorls 5 moderately convex very slowly widening the last rounded peripherally but showing the faint trace of a peripheral angle not descending in front base somewhat flattened.
The aperture is but little oblique wide banded inside.
Peristome narrowly reflexed colored by the bands dilated at the coliunellar insertion half concealing the umbiUcus.
Alt.
22 diam.
30.2 mm. 
20.7  29.0 '' Yonakunijima Ryukyu.
Cotypes No.
95837 A. N. S. P. from No.
1507 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
A very handsome species of the caliginosa group closely resembling E. okinoerabuensis in shape but the last whorl viewed from above is narrower and the minute sculpture of the spire is different.
The somewhat flattened base and the shape of the basal lip are features like E. caliginosa.
Eulota luhuana latispira n. subsp.
The shell is large bright greenishyellow with three brown bands coarsely striate with the usual fine spiral lines.
The spire is very wide whorls more slowly and more regularly increasing than in luhuana or senckenhergiana the last whorl narrower.
Umbilicus ample regularly tapering within.
Alt.
30 diam.
48 mm.
 whorls 6.
Hakusan Kaga.
Types No.
83913 A. N. S. P. from No.
562a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The spiral bands may be dark and conspicuous or very pale.
The lip is flesh colored varying in shade in different shells.
Eulota .ffigista perangulata n. sp.
The shell is umbilicate width of umbilicus contained 4 times in the diameter of the shell conic above convex below strongly angular at the periphery light brown dull finely striate sometimes with some very delicate short threadlike cuticular appendages on some of the striae in places.
Under the cuticle there are very fine spiral lines visible just in front of the parietal callus.
Whorls 61 moderately convex slowly increasing the last strongly angular peripherally the angle disappearing immediately behind the peristome.
The whorl scarcely descends in front not angular around the umbiHcus.
The aperture is roundedlunate peristome thin forming threefourths of a circle the upper margin is slightly expanded outer and basal margins reflexed.
Parietal callus merely a thin film.
Alt.
8.5 diam.
13.7 mm. 
9  13 Izuhara Tsushima.
Cotypes No.
95859 A. N. S. P. from No.
1551 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is a strongly angvilar species of the E. aperta group.
The peristome is like that of E. aperta tumida.
Neither E. aperta or E. mimula is known from the island of Kyushu.
Trishoplita cretacea hypozona n. subsp.
The shell is conic white with a broad purplishbrown or rich reddishbrown zone on the base.
The surface is rather finely striate the striae elegantly granulose especially on the base.
Alt.
14 diam.
17.8 mm.
 whorls 6. 
12  16.8  '' 6.
Mikuriya Hoki.
Types No.
95862 A. N. S. P. from No.
387a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It also occurs at Mihonoseki and Gakuenji Izumo and at Itsukushima Aki.
The shell is generally in large part denuded of cuticle as in T. cretacea.
The granules on the strise of the base are irregular not arranged in spiral lines.
Some specimens from Izumo are smaller Alt.
12.2 diam.
16 mm.
 whorls 6. ''
10  14.5 ''  6.
A single example seen from the province Aki resembles hypozona in shape and color but differs in minute sculpture the strise being superficially cut by fine spiral lines chiefly evident on the base in place of the irregular granulation of typical hypozona.
This form No.
87678 A. N. S. P. No.
1190 of Mr. Hirase's collection may be found separable from hypozona yet we prefer to refer it to that race until more material can be brought together.
T. c. hypozona inhabits the provinces along the northern shore of the western end of the main island of Japan.
Ganesella albida mollioula n. subsp.
The shell is larger than G. albida thinner more transparent bluishmilky above the keel transparent yellowish below sculptured quite distinctly with close microscopic spiral lines base decidedly more convex than in albida the mouth and columella being longer whorls more numerous.
Length 21 cliam.
14.5 mm.
 whorls 6.
Toshim South Cape of Formosa.
Type No.
95753 A. N. S. P. from No.
1584 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
The typical measurements of G. albida H.
Ad.
are alt.
15 cliam.
14 mm.
An example of the typical form from Sammaipo before us measures alt.
14.5 diam.
12 mm. whorls 5.
Only three examples of G. a. mollicula were taken.
Ennea iwakawa yonakunijimana n. subsp.
Closely related to E. i. miyakojimana P. and H. but the aperture is more contracted by the large teeth and the spire tapers more being widest below the middle at the penultimate whorl.
Whorls 6f to 7h.
Length 4 diam.
1.9 mm.
Yonakunijima Loochoo.
Types No.
95715 A. N. S. P. from No.
1511 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Petalochlamys rejecta Pfr..
Helix rejecta Pfr. P. Z. S. 1859 p. 25 No.
9 pi.
43 fig.
1 Monographia Hel.
Viv. V 142.
Microcystis
rejecta Mlldff. Jahrb.
D. M.
Ges. X p. 365.
Hyalina mamillaris Heude Moll.
Terr.
Fleuve Bleu 1882 p. 15 pi.
19 fig.
8.
This species was described from a specimen taken by Robert Fortune in northern China.
Dr. von Moellendorff has pointed out that most of the shells discovered by Fortune are from places inland from Shanghai toward the tea district of Wuyuan in the Province Anhui.
Hangchow where several of Fortune's species occur such as Pledotropis hrevibarbis is between Shanghai and Wuyuan.
A Petalochlamys from Hangchow taken by Mr. Nakada agrees with Pfeiffer's description of H. rejecta.
Fig.
1.
 P. rejecta Pfr. Hangchow China.
The shell is strongly depressed with very lowconic spire of the usual thin substance and of a greenishyellow color above subtransparent the base perceptibly paler.
The umbiUcus is extremely narrow its width contained about 12 times in that of the shell.
The surface is polished and shows under a compound microscope very close engraved spiral lines chiefly below the suture wanting on the first whorl and becoming weak on the last whorl and the base.
Large specimens have just 5 whorls these increase rather slowly to the last which is very wide  wider than in related species.
Seen from above the spire is small its diameter hardly 46 per cent of the total diameter of the shell.
The last whorl is equally rounded at the periphery.
The aperture is broadly lunate.
Alt.
7 greater diam.
13.5 lesser 11.3 mm.
The specimens described and figured are from Hangchow Chekiang Province China No.
95800 A. N. S. P. from No.
1476 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
P. rejecta is related to P. planula and P. planata of Heude but viewed from above the last whorl is wider than in either of these species both of which moreover are smaller.
Dr. O. von Moellendorf found rejecta in Liishan near Kiukiang.
P. Fuchs collected it in southern Hunan and northern Guangdung and Father Heude described specimens from the former locality as H. mamillaris a species which von Moellendorff referred to rejecta as a synonym.
The first published record of rejecta after the original reference was by A. Adams who identified it from Tsushima Annals and Magazine of Natural History 4th series I 1868 p. 467.
Among difficult and critical species an identification by Adams has slight value.
Von Martens Reinhardt and Kobelt have repeated Adams' record but without further confirmation.
I do not know the locality of the specimen figured by Dr. Reinhardt.
Kobelt has copied these figures.
On the whole it seems hazardous to admit P. rejecta to the fauna of Japan or Korea without better evidence than we now have.
It will probably prove to be pecuhar to China especially in the district below the mouth of the Yangtze in Anhui and Chekiang Provinces.
At all events the somewhat similar Petalochlamys known to us from Tsushima is certainly a species distinct from P. rejecta.
Petalochlamys subrejecta n. sp.
Macrochlamys rejecta Pfr. Hirase The Conch.
Magazine II p.' 5 pi.
13 fig.
13 not Helix rejecta 'Pir. '
' Macrochlamys subrejecta Pils.
and Hir.Conch.
Mag. II p. 76 no description .
Shell depressed very narrowly vmabilicate very thin and fragile glossy of a pale brown tint or very pale greenishyellow.
The surface is weakly marked with growthlines and under the compound microscope shows very fine close superficial spiral striae wanting on the first whorl becoming weak on the last whorl.
The spire is lowconoidal wide its diameter viewed from above is 58 per cent the total diameter of the shell.
Wliorls 5f slowly increasing the last much wider rounded at the periphery.
The suture is narrowly transparentmargined.
Umbilicus very small its diameter contained about 20 times in that of the shell.
Aperture lunate.
Alt.
7.6 greater diam.
13.2 lesser 12 nmi.
Sasuna Tsushima.
Types No.
95802 A. N. S. P. from No.
1549a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also found at Fusan Korea.
Fig.
2.
 P. subrejecta.
Compared with the Chinese P. rejeda this species is less depressed and has viewed from above a much wider spire and narrower last whorl.
The aperture is consequently higher and less dilated laterally.
The spiral sculpture is not quite so deeply engraved and the umbilicus is wider than in P. rejeda though still very narrow.
P. suhrejeda is probably the shell A. Adams reported from Tsushima as Macrochlamys rejeda Pfr.
Petalochlamys serenua n. sp.
The shell is depressed very narrowly umbilicate amber colored subtransparent very fragile.
The surface has dehcate close microscopic engraved spirals both above and below.
Spire slightly convex whorls 4 but slightly convex slowly increasing to the last which is much wider rounded peripherally.
The suture is narrowly transparentmargined.
Aperture lunate columellar lip triangularly dilated at the insertion thin columella vertical Alt.
2.8 greater diam.
4.7 lesser 4 mm.
Kaminoyama Kunchan Okinawa.
Types No.
95809 A. N. S. P. from No.
1441 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small very fragile shell is related to P. doenitzi Reinh.
 but the last whorl is wider in a view from above and is somewhat more ample.
PetalocMamys perfragilis sakui subsp.n.
The shell is more depressed than P. perfragilis and P. p. shikokuensis and is a little more openly umbilicate.
Surface brilHantly polished almost smooth but under a compound microscope very faint traces of spiral striae may be seen in some places and on the base of the last whorl these incised spirals sometimes become distinct.
The suture is whiteedged.
Alt.
8.7 greater diam.
15 lesser 13.2 mm.
Yakushima Osumi types No.
85729 A. N. S. P. from No.
1081 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
It also occurs on Kuchinoerabushima Osumi.
Kaliella gudei mutsuensis n. subsp.
The shell is perforate conic having an acute peripheral keel visible on the spire as a thread in the suture irregularly striatulate and glossy.
Whorls 4f to 5 convex.
Aperture lunate truncate at the ends.
Columellar margin vertical slightly thickened reflexed at the insertion.
Alt.
3.3 diam.
4.7 mm.
Osoreyama Mutsu.
Types No.
96178 A. N. S. P. from No.
1445 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This form differs from K. gudei by the number of whorls and much smaller size.
The whorls are more convex than in K. ceratodes Gude and the columella is less calloused.
In K. koshinoshimana the M'horls are more closely coiled.
K. g. 7nutsuensis differs from K. sororcida by its vertical columella that of K. sororcula being oblique to the shellaxis.
Kaliella subcrenulata satsumaua n. subsp.
Fig.
3.
A form decidedly larger than K. subcrenulata.
Under the compound microscope there are seen to be fine threadlike vertical striae on the upper surface and on a band below the periphery.
The rest of the base is glossy but shows a few fine spiral lines.
Alt.
2.3 diam.
3.25 mm.
Fig.
3.
Yamakawa Satsuma.
Types No.
96176 A. N. S. P. from No.
1593 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Kaliella longissima n. sp.
Fig.
4.
The shell is minutely perforate conicturrite with nearly straight lateral outUnes and obtuse summit pale yellowish subtransparent.
Surface glossy almost smooth.
Whorls 9 very slowly increasing moderately convex the last rounded peripherally though there is a very delicate threadlike keel.
Base convex.
Aperture semilunar the columella vertical with reflexed edge.
Alt.
4.25 diam.
2.3 mm.
Sasuna Tsushima.
T5rpes No.
96177 A. N. S. P. from No.
1556 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This is the most lengthened Japanese Kaliella known to us being much longer than K. prcealta.
The Indian K. elongata G.A.
has about the same proportions but differs by its strongly keeled last whorl the convex outhnes of the spire etc.
KalioUa boninensis n. sp.
The shell is perforate depressed the spire convexly conoidal with obtuse rounded summit base convex the periphery angular brown.
Surface rather dull above more glossy beneath  first half whorl smooth next whorl sharply striate and Fig.
4. decussated with fine spiral lines  following whorls are densely finely and sharply striate with very faint traces of spiral hues in places the base is smoothish but not much polished showing faint traces of spiral lines in places.
Whorls 3f moderately convex.
Alt.
1.75 diam.
2.66 mm.
f  Anijima.
Ogasawara Bonin Islands.
Types No.
95867 A. N. S. P. from No.
1500 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This small species is not closely related to any known Ogasawaran or Japanese form.
Whether it really belongs to Kaliella is perhaps doubtful.
Sitala ultima n. sp.
The shell is perforate conic with the last whorl large very fragile amber colored rather shining with a silky luster above more glossy below.
Sculpture of excessively fine close vertical strisB decussated by very delicate spirals the base having engraved spiral lines.
The spire is straightly conic.
Whorls 4 convex the last angular at the periphery in front becoming inflated and rounded in the last half.
Base rather convex.
Alt.
2.3 diam.
2.9 mm.
Kaminoyama Uzen.
Types No.
95908 A. N. S. P. from No.
1443 of Mr. Hirase's collection.
This delicate snail is smaller than the related S. reinhardti and has much more distinct microscopic sculpture.
It lives farther north than any other known Sitala.
Ena luchuana nesiotica n. subsp.
The shell is rimate very thin purplishhrowyi more or less flecked with yellow on the upper whorls by incipient disintegration of the cuticle.
The spire tapers regularly to the small but obtuse apex.
Whorls 7.
The earhest whorls are worn but seem to be smooth.
On the third whorl very fine close spiral striae appear and by the decussation of growthlines the surface becomes minutely granular.
Tiie last whorl or two are more coarsely closely granulose.
The aperture is shghtly obhque dark inside peristome expanded slightly thickened within white.
Columella dilated and forked above.
Parietal callus very thin and transparent.
Length 17 diam.
7.0 mm.
17.2  6.9  16  7.0  Kuroshima Osumi.
Types No.
95768 A. N. S. P. from No.
1546a of Mr. Hirase's collection.
Also Yakushima No.
1546 of Mr. Hirase's collection 95769 A. N. S. P. This form differs from Ena luchuana and E. I. oshimana by the dark coloration without light streaks and the more pronounced granulation.
The specimens from Yakushima seem to be identical in all respects with those from Kuroshima.
ON THE MELOID OF ANGOLA.
BY F. CREIGHTON WELLMAN M.D.
While determining a collection of Angolan specimens of Coleoptera of the family Meloidse recently collected by myself I have had occasion to go somewhat thoroughly into the literature of the subject and also to compare the material in the British Museum the Hope Department of Oxford University the Konigliches and the National jMuseums in Berlin the National Museum at Washington and several private collections so it seems that the results together with my collecting notes may be of sufficient interest to publish along with the descriptions of the new forms that have come to light.
Our present knowledge of the Meloidse of Angola it may be said is due principally to three collections viz. the SchonleinGrossbendtner collection described by Erichson the Welwitsch collection the Meloid material of which was described by Marseul and the collection made by von Hohmeyer and Pogge and described by Harold.
My own collection  described in the present paper  is now added.
Besides these there are a few single descriptions l various authors which will be found in their places in the present list.
It is possible that some of the more recent records have escaped my attention.
Of the four collections named above by far the most complete is that of Welwitsch which like all the collections of this gifted naturalist is of the highest scientific value.
I have recently in collaboration with Dr. Walther Horn of Berlin published a memoir containing a short description of the region under consideration and some account of its zoogeographical features and shall content myself with referring to that paper only observing here that with the exception of two new species viz. Mylabris Actenodia deserticola Wellman from the littoral region and Mylabris chisarnbensis Wellman from the high inland plateau all the Angolan Meloidse collected by me are from the mountain slopes intermediate between the interior alpine region and the lowlying coastlands.
Some of the habits of the beetles are most interesting.
I shall not 1 On the Cicindelinse of Angola by F. Creighton Wellman M.D. F.E.S. and Walther Horn M.D. Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. November 1908 pp.
504512. speak here of the remarkable illustrations of mimicry and warning colors afforded by the Angolan species as I have already in preparation a paper on these questions in collaboration with Prof. E. B. Poulton F.R.S. of Oxford University England.
I may perhaps with advantage however refer at this time to the most important food plant of the Angolan Meloidse.
This is a small Roseaceous annual which Prof. Engler kindly informed me in Berlin last summer was a species of Tribulus T. zegheri which is widely distributed in tropical Africa.
Throughout the desert belt of Angola which extends from the sea to a point 30 to 100 miles inland according to the configuration of the country this plant occurs in enormous masses and is the most important and indeed almost the only food supply of the Meloidse of the region.
Most of the genera represented eat it  Mylabris Ceroctis Actenodia Coryna Decapotoma Lytta etc.
There are great patches of the yellow blooms and these reveal thousands of beetles sometimes almost every plant has one or more beetles.
Some of the more common species like Mylabris dentata Olivier Mylabris Actenodia chrysonielina Erichson Mylabris pluvialis Wellman Mylabris Decapotoina regis Thomas and Mylabris Coryna 12punctata Chevrolat can be obtained in almost endless numbers and the yellow faeces of the beetles may be seen over the ground like numerous small dots.
It is interesting to note that insects like these which are during their larva
stages all parasitic on other insects should have such an intimate relation in their imaginal stage to certain plants.
Lyttini in their early stages feed on the eggs of Orthoptera and Mylabrini on the young of the same order of insects.
In Angola these beetles occur shortly before or about the time when the young Locustidse and Acrididae become numerous the first rains doubtless having something to do with the hatching of them all.
The appearance of the adult Meloidse is almost exactly synchronous with the flowering of the Tribidus which lasts only a few weeks and should the beetles be too early or too late in their appearance they being flower feeders must inevitably perish from want of food in this desert region where only this one species of Tribulus which is apparently fertilized by the beetles themselves is abundant enough to support such vast numbers of insects.
We see here another illustration of how in the economy of nature the interdependence of several organisms may be very close ' I have remarked on the relation of this flower to Angolan Meloid before the Deutsch.
Entomol.
Gesellschaft rid.
report in Deiitsch.
Ent.
Zeitschrift 1908 p. 647. and the adjustment of life to environment very delicate.
Other notes on the habits of the various species need not be discussed here but will be found with the mention of the various species.
Following is a list of the species occurring in Angola so far as I have been able to verify the records.
When I have had occasion to compare material with original types I have usually indicated where such types are to be found.
It may be mentioned that in the records and sjaionymy all names from Dejean's Catalogue have been ignored as have MS. names since the recognition of such serves only to perpetuate confusion.
A set of cotypes with the exception of three uniques of the new forms described in this paper has been deposited in the collection of the United States National Museum.
Probably a few of the species now included under Mylabris sens str.
 and of which I have been unable to trace the types will later have to be distributed among the various subgenera which I have recognized.
Fam.
MELOID.
Siibfam.
LYTTINE.
Tribe MYLABRINI.
Genus MYLABRIS Fabr.Syst.
Ent. 1775 p. 261.
Subgenus 1.
ACTENODIA Cast. Hist des Ins. II 1840 p. 268.
Syn.
Actenoda Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch. IX 3 1843 p. 257 
ex error.
Syn.
Arithmema Chevr. Ic.
Regn.
anim. Ill p. 384.
Subgenus 2.
CORYNA Billb. Mon.
Mylabr. 1813 p. 73 nota.
Syn.
Hycleus Latr. Regn.
anim. Ed.
I. 1817 p. 314.
Subgenus 3.
DECAPOTOMA Voigts Wien.
Ent.
Zeit. XXI p. 177.
Syn.
Decatoma Cast. Hist des Ins. II 1840 p. 268 nee Spinola.
Subgenus 4.
MYLABRIS Fabr. Syst.
Ent. 1775 p. 261 sens strict..
Subgenus 5.
CEROCTIS Mars. Abeille VII 2 1870 p. 168.
Syn.
Mimesthes Mars. Mem.
Soc.
Sci.
Liege 1872 p. 566.
Subgenus 6.
LYDOCERAS Mars. Abeille VII 2 1870 p. 12.
The following artificial table based on the antennal characters may be useful in separating these subgenera of Mylabris A.
 Antennae wdth from eight to eleven joints last joints inflated into a clubshaped mass.
a.
 Antennae moniliform.
Antennae eightjointed Actenodia.
Antennae ninejointed Coryn.x.
Antennae tenjointed Decapotoma.
Antennae elevenjointed Mylabris s.
str..
aa.
 Antennae serrate.
Antennae elevenjointed Ceroctis.
A A.
 Antennae with eleven joints last joints not inflated.
Antennae somewhat flattened Lydoceras Subgenus ACTENODIA Cast.
1.
Mylabris A.
chrysomelina Erichs.
Wiegm.
Arch.
f.
Naturg. 1843 p. 258.
Angola IiIrichson Loanda Bengo Welwitsch Mossamedes Anchieta Gamba March 1908 341 specimens Wellman.
All the specimens were taken on the flowers of Tribulus zegheri.
Type in Berlin Konigliches IMuseum marked on locality label Angola Schonh.
2.
Mylabris A.
deserticola Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra elongata pallidopubescens elijtris nigris pundulatis pone basin et humerale flavomaculatis undulatimque bifasciatis fascia anteriore flava posteriore fulva prothorace et capite fortiter pundatis illo medio breviter foveolato antennarum ariiculis 1 2 6 7 8 nigris 3 4 5 testaceis pedes testacei geniculis tarisque nigris.
Long.
Corp. 8 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
Z mm.
Hob.
Benguella Africa ah auctore coUecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Small graceful species head black rather strongl puncturetl and with a few scattered minute pale hairs  labrum emarginate rather hairy  mandibles fuscous maxillary palpi with apical joint obliquely truncate and nearly twice as long as penultimate labial palpi short eyes large antenme with first two joints black 2d to 5th testaceous 6th to 8tli black rather sparsely covered with short fine white hairs and a few larger black ones the last joint more closely covered with short fine white hairs  thorax black rather sparsely and strongly punctured clothed with pallid hairs in the center at the basal third is an elongate fovea about  the length of the thorax scutellum small with a few short pallid hairs elytra black irregularly punctulate pallidly villose with a large yellow or pale orange spot at the base of each elytron and two transverse irregular bands one of a yellow color a little in front of the middle and the other of an orange red color about half way between the middle band and the apex of the elytron at the humeral margin of the elytron is a spot smaller and narrower than the basal spot this is connected by a narrow marginal band to the middle transverse fascia legs testaceous with a rather broad apical black band to the femora a much narrower occasionally nearly obsolete black apical band on the tibiae and tarsi the last tarsus being sometimes almost entirely black  the under side of the body is black.
Type in my collection cotype paratype Cat.
No.
12119 U. S. N. M. Five specimens of this pretty little species were taken in the desert just outside of the city of Benguella in March 1908.
The'were all on a leafless shrub and their food plant is unknown.
It seemed problematical what they could find to feed on in that driedup region.
There is a series of specimens without name in the Konighches Museum in Berhn.
3.
Mylabris A.
jucunda Ericha. Wiegm. Arch.
f.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 257.
Angola Erichson Angola Benguella Marseul.
Type in Berhn Konighches Museum marked Angola Schonh.
Subgenus CORYNA Billb.
4.
Mylabris C. ambigua Gerst. Wiegm.
Arch.
f.
Naturg. XXXVII p. 68.
Gamba March 1908 2 specimens Wellman.
This species was originally described from Zanzibar and placed by its author as a Mylabris.
Type in Berlin Konighches Museum.
5.
Mylabris C. chevrolati Beaur. Les Ins.
Vs. 1890 p. 623.
Hydoeus duodecimpunctata Chevr. Guer.
Ic.
regn.
anim. p. 132 tab.
35 fig.
3 nee Oliv..
Hycleus decimguttatus Cast. Hist.
Nat.
des Ins. II p. 268.
Gamba March 1908 72 specimens Wellman.
Originally descriled from Senegal.
6.
Mylabris C. hermanniae Fabr. Ent.
Syst. I 2 p. 89.
Mylabris affinis Oliv. Ent. Ill 47 p. 8 tab.
2 fig.
16.
Angola  aus dem inneren  Pogge.
Described from Guinea.
7.
Mylabris C. mylabroides Cast. Hist.
Nat.
des Ins. II p. 208.
Mylabris lanuginosa Gerst. Monatsb.
Berl.
Acad. 1854 p. 695.
Angola Marseul.
The type of lanuginosa is in Berlin Konighches Museum.
8.
Mylabris C. postbuma Mars. Mem.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 603.
PI.
VI fig.
6.
Angola Bengale  
Bangala Marseul Loanda Bengo Welwitsch Humbe HuiUa Anchieta Gamba March 1908 308 specimens Wellman.
On the flowers of Trihulus zegheri.
It is possible that mixta Mars from Caffraria is a variety of posthuma.
9.
Mylabris C. tergemina Mars. Mem.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Liege 1872 p. 613.
Angola Marseul.
Subgenus DECAPOTOMA Voigts.
10.
Mylabris D. decorata Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
f.
Naturg. 1843 p. 256.
Angola Erichson Benguella Marseul Loanda Welwitsch Loanda Hohmeyer Huiha Anchieta.
Type in Berlin Konighches Museum.
11.
Mylabris D. chiyakensis Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra argenteovillosa  caput et thorax obscure viridiccerulescentia subtiliter punctata pallidovillosa elytra nigra argenteovillosa vittis duabus altera dorsali altera marginali ilia medium attingente ad apicem valde dilatata hac medium subattingente minus dilatata maculisque duabus altera dorsali altera marginali inter medium et apicem positis corpus infra pedesque nigra femora pallidohirsuto  tibice flavosericeae pedes postici elongati.
Long.
Corp. 12 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
4 mm.
Hah.
Chiyaka Angola Africa ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Medium sized species head and thorax dark greenishblue finely punctured and clothed with long pale hairs eyes large very convex antenna with first two joints shining the rest dull scutellum almost semicircular elytra black finely punctured clothed with pale silvery hairs on each elytron a dorsal and marginal broad yellow line both dilated at the posterior termination the former reaching past the middle of the elytron and strongly dilated into a large transverse spot the latter not reaching to the middle of the elytron and less strongly dilated.
In some specimens the dorsal vitta is interrupted the terminal dilatation then becoming an isolated spot and the vitta remaining shorter than the marginal one.
Half way between the terminal inflation of the dorsal vitta and the apex of the elytra a large somewhat transverse spot a smaller transverse spot opposte it at the margin.
The legs and abdomen are clothed with rather long pale hairs the tibiae being closely covered with shorter and yellower hairs.
The hind legs are very long.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12120 U. S. N. M. There also occurs a variety of this species which may be brief'
characterized as follows Mylabris D. chiyakensis var.
tekama Wellm.
var.
nov Vittis dorsalibus mdlis macidisque minoribus.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
The very striking reduction of the yellow markings gives at first glance the impression of a different species.
The name is a local Bantu word referring to the dull color.
Eightyone specimens of this interesting species were taken in February 1908 chiefly on flowers of Compositae.
In life the antennae are held farther forward than in most Mylabrini giving the insect a somewhat peculiar aspect.
39 12.
Mylabris D. elendensis Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra elongata argenteosubpubescens capite prothoraceque crebre punctatis hoc subimpresso antennis nigris elytra nigra vittis duabus flavis vitta dorsali ad apicem subiter vitta marginali non dilatata maculisque 2 posticis oblique positis ornatis pedes nigri argenteosericei abdomen nigrum.
 hong.
Corp. 12 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
3 mm.
Hab.
Chiyaka Mt.
Elende Angola Africa ob auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Slender species head including antennae and mouth parts black closely punctured with pale villosity eyes large hemispherical antennce black thorax black punctured like head pubescence pale feebly impressed in the median line at its posterior third scutellum large elytra black more coarsely punctured than the head and thorax palely villose with yellow markings disposed as follows two dorsal vittae one on each elytron not reaching to the posterior third of elytron here it is angularly deflexed externally forming the vitta into an obtuse angled hook midway between this hooklike deflexion and the apex of the elytron is a large blotch longer than wide and lying at the same angle as the bent end of the vitta a marginal vitta on each elytron distinctly shorter than the dorsal and a small marginal spot just opposite the ante apical dorsal blotch legs and under side of body black both clothed with pale hairs the former closely beset with shorter hairs the latter more sparsely set with long hairs.
Two specimens taken at Mt.
Elende Chiyaka November 1907 in a large orchid.
13.
Mylabris D. omega Mars. Mm.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lidge 1872 p. 585 pi.
VI fig.
11.
Loanda Welwitsch Huilla Anchieta.
14.
Mylabris D. regis Thos. Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 6 XIX 1897 p. 1897.
Angola Welwitsch Gamba March 1908 102 specimens Wellman.
On the flowers of Tribulus zegheri.
Type in London British Museum.
15.
Mylabris CD.
temporalis Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra elongata subcylindrica pilis argenteis hirta capite prothoraceque nigris subtiliter punctulatis argenteovillosis  illo lata tempora inflata et rotundata hoc medio fortiter foveolato antennis articulis 2 primis nigris reliquis obscure brunneis elytris nigris fortiter punctulatis argenteovillosis vitta lata dorsali medium subattingente altera marginali angusta medium attingente macula media dorsali et fascia irregulare inter medium et apicem suturam et marginem attingens corpus infra et pedes nigra nigrosericea.
Long.
Corp. 15 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
4 mm.
Hah.
Chiyaka Angola Africa  ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Mediumsized species black rather densely clothed with longish silvery hairs which are longer on the head and thorax than on the elytra.
The head is very wide being much wider than the thorax and in some specimens as wide as the elytra at their base and with the tempora much inflated making the head above the eyes as wide as it is across the eyes themselves.
Eyes not prominent.
The head and thorax are finely punctulate the latter with a median fovea situate somewhat in front of its posterior third.
Antennoe with first two joints black the remainder being a very dark brown.
Scutellum long and narrow.
Elytra black with yellow markings arranged as follows  on each elytron a broad dorsal vitta onefourth as wide as the elytron not reaching to the middle of the el3rtron another narrower marginal vitta reaching fully to or rather beyond the middle behind the apex of the dorsal vitta and occasionally coalescing with it a large dorsal spot irregular in outline but always transverse behind this spot midway between it and the apex of the elytron an irregular yellow band.
The legs and abdomen are densely clothed with long silvery hairs which are more abundant on the femora and tibiae.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12121 U. S. N. M. One hundred and two specimens taken in January 1907 on Malvaceae Hibiscus and Malache spp..
The pattern of this species is wonderfully stable showing almost no variation.
Subgenus MYLABRIS Fabr.
sens strict..
16.
Mylabris M. andongoana Har. Col. Hefte XVI 1879 p. 138.
Pungo Andongo July Hohmeyer.
Type in Berhn Koniglisches Museum.
The pubescence of the legs is in the type somewhat different from ordinary specimens.
17.
Mylabris M.atroohalybea Mars. Jorn.Sci.Math.Phys.Nat.Lisb.VINo.XXV1879p.57.
Loanda Welwitsch Huilla Lobo d'Avila.
18.
Mylabris M. benguelana Mars. ibid. p. 57.
Angola Welwitsch Benguella Anchieta.
19.
Mylabris M. bicincta Mars. Mm.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 161 pi.
V fig.
60.
Loanda Welwitsch.
This species was described from Lake N'gami.
20.
Mylabris M.  bifurcata Mars.
 Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII  No.
XXV. 1879 p.48.
Capangombe Anchieta.
21.
Mylabris M. bilineata Mars. ibid. p. 56.
Angola Welwitsch.
22.
Mylabris M. bissexguttata Mars. ibid. p. 50.
Humbe Anchieta.
23.
Mylabris M. carinifrons Mars. ibid. p. 47.
Angola Welwitsch.
24.
Mylabris M. cMsambensis Wellm. spec.
nov. Nigra magna elongata convexa nigrovillosula capite prothoraceque crebre punctulatis antennis nigris elytris nigris punctulatis macula magna juxtascutellare et altera minore humerali testaceis medio undulatim lateque testaceohifasciatis corpus infra et pedes intermedii posticique nigropubescentes pedes antici dense argenteosericei.
Long.
Corp. 24 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
10 mm.
Hab.
Chisamba Bihe Angola Africa a Doctore L. Cammack collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Large species head black finely punctured clothed with fine black hairs which are fewer on the vertex labrum emarginate the margin provided with a thick fringe of coarse testaceous hairs its basal third smooth the apical twothirds very closely finely and regularly punctured eyes slightly reniform antennoe black with a tuft of coarse black hairs on the anterior surface of the basal joint and a few scattered black hairs on the next three joints maxillary palpi large with apical joint inflated and squarely truncate both maxillary and labial palpi with long black hairs on them  thorax with punctuation and pubescence like that of head posterior margin elevated two feeble impressions one just in front of the posterior margin and the other just in front of the posterior third of the thorax both in the median fine scutellum small triangular with the posterior angle truncate elytra black with a large juxtascutellar strawcolored spot not quite reaching the sutural margin on each elytron nearly opposite to this but rather more in front a smaller spot on the humeral margin two wide wavy bands of the same color dividing the elytra into three nearly equal parts but placed nearer together than from the basal or apical borders of the elytra legs black densely clothed with short black hairs and some longer ones the front legs very closely covered on their internal surface with short pale hairs and in the males provided with very long black hairs at the apex of the tibise and sides of the tarsi  under surface of body black with longish black pubescence.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12122 U. S. N. M. Eight specimens sent by Dr. Cammack taken on fohage.
One of the individuals is a monstrosity having the secondary bifurcation of the inner front claws reduced to a tiny spur.
This species in its coloration and facies presents a startling resemblance to an oriental species ilf.
cichorii Linn.
 but the strikingdifferences in the mouth parts readily separate it.
25.
Mylabris M. dentata Oliv. Encyc.
m5th. VIII p. 97.
Mylahris tortuosa Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 256.
Angola Erichson Loanda Benguella Marseul Icolo Loanda Welwitsch Loanda Hohmeyer Humbe Cabinda Anchieta Gamba March 1908 84 specimens Wellman.
This species was first described from Sierra Leone.
26.
Mylabris M. dicincta Bert. Nov. Act.
Bonon. X. 1849 p. 419.
Mylabris bizonata Gerst. Monatsb.
Berl.
Acad. 1854 p. 694.
Mylabris dicincta var.
Buqueti Mars. Mem.
Soc.
ro3 Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 408.
Zonabris dicincta var.
occidentalis Har. Col. Hefte XVI 1879 p. 135.
Benguella Marseul Angola Welwitsch Capangombe Anchieta Gamba 60 specimens on flowers of Tribulus zegheri March 1908 Wellman.
The typical form was first described from Mozambique.
The Angolan form with juxtascutellar and humeromarginal eljrtral spots seems to be a distinctively western race and is probably a true subspecies.
In all my specimens the last three joints of the palpi are yellow.
A specimen of dicincta probably named by Bertolini and designated as a type is in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
27.
Mylabris M. discrepens Mars. Jorn.Sci.Math.Phys.Nat.Lisb.VIINo.XXVp.46.
Loanda Welwitsch.
28.
Mylabris M. dispar Mars. Mm.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Liege 1872 p. 435 pi.
IV fig.
22a.
Ambriz Marseul.
29.
Mylabris M. erichsoni Gemm. Col. Hefte VI 1870 p. 123. .
Mylabris diiodecim guttata Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 257 nee Germar .
Angola Erichson.
30.
Mylabris M. flavoguttata Reiche Galin.
Voy.
Abyss. 1850 p. 380 tab.
23 fig.
6.
Angola Welwitsch.
A species described from Abyssinia.
31.
Mylabris M. gamicola Mars. Mem.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 436 pi.
IV. fig.
23a.
Humbe Anchieta.
Described from Lake N'gami.
32.
Mylabris M. holosericea Klug Erm.
Reise 1835 p. 41.
Loanda Welwitsch.
Described from Guinea.
It is suggested by Mr. Champion Mem.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. 1899 p. 165 that villosa Fahr.
Ofv.
Vet.Ak.
Fork. XXVII p. 345 from ''Caffraria is a variety of this species.
33.
Mylabris M. hybrida Mars. Mem.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Liege 1872 p. 418 pi.
IV.
fig 12.
Capangombe Anchieta.
Described from Port Natal.
34.
Mylabris M. Jacob Mars. Jom.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. V No.
XXV 1879 p. 53.
Loanda Welwitsch Capangombe Anchieta.
35.
Mylabris M. lactimala Mars. ibid. p. 44.
Humbe Lobo d'Avila.
36.
Mylabris M. lanigera Mars. ibid. p. 49.
Angola Welwitsch.
37.
Mylabris M. liquida Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 255.
Angola Erichson.
Loanda Pungo Andongo Hohmeyer Cabinda Anchieta Angola Welwitsch Gamba March 1908 7 specimens Wellman.
On the flowers of Trihulus zegheri.
My specimens differ from typical examples in that the basal fascia of the elytra is not humerally subinterrupted.
38.
Mylabris M. muata Har. Mitth.
Munch.
Ent.
Ver. 1878 p. 109.
Angola  aus dem inneren  Pogge.
This species was first described probably from Kabebe now in the Congo Free State as a Bruchus but was subsequently Col. Hefte 1879 p. 136 removed by its author from that genus and placed in Mylabris where it conflicts with Mylabris muata Har. Mitth.
Munch.
Ent.
Ver. 1878 p. 109.
I accordingly propose for this last species which is not mentioned by Mr. Champion in his List of the Cantharidae Supplementary to the 'Munich' Catalogue Mem.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg. 1899 pp.
154206 the following designation Mylabris M. haroldi Wellm.
nom.
nov.
The type of mvxita in the Berlin Konigliches Museum has Regn Lunda on the locahty label.
39.
Mylabris M. myops Chevr. Guer.
Ic.
regn.
anim. p. 133 tab.
35 fig.
4.
Cabo Negro Welwitsch.
Described from the Cape of Good Hope.
Among my specimens not collected by myself but undoubtedly from Angola and also among those of Welwitsch in the British Museum I find some individuals which differ considerably from the type as was first pointed out by Marseul Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lish. 1879 p. 45 and which may be briefly described as follows  Mylabris M. myops var.
welwitschi Wellm.
var.
nov. Macula flava hasali elytrorum nulla.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
There are some other points of difference among which may be mentioned the rather coarser and more irregular punctuation of the head and thorax in the case of the 9 9  and the greater comparative length of the third joint of the antennae.
40.
Mylabris M. oculata Thunb. Diss.
Nov. Ins.
Spec VI 1791 p. 114.
Caniharis bifasciata Degeer. Ins. VII p. 647 tab.
48 fig.
13.
Angola Welwitsch Humbe Anchieta.
First described from the Cape.
Mylabris M. oculata var.
moufleti Mars. Mim.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 404.
Benguella Marseul Hiiilla Lobo d'Avila Caconda Anchieta Bihe Capello and Ivens.
Mylabris M. oculata var.
ophthalmica Mars. ibid. p. 404.
Angola Welwitsch Benguella Capangombe Humbe Anchieta.
Chiyaka January 1908 one specimen Gamba March 1908 3 specimens Wellman.
Described from the Cape.
41.
Mylabris M.opacula Mars. Jorn.Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.XXV1879p.45.
Duque de Braganga Marseul Bihe Capello and Ivens.
42.
Mylabris M. palliata Mars. Mm.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 432 pi.
IV fig.
21a.
Humbe Anchieta.
Described from Caffraria.
43.
Mylabris M. paulinoi Mars. Jorn.Sci.
Math.
Phys.Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV1879p.
48.
Angola Welwitsch.
44.
Mylabris M phelopsis Mars ibid. p. 48.
Angola Welwitsch.
45.
Mylabris M. pluvialis Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra ohlongoovata postice paulo latior parum convexa nigrovillosula capite prothoraceque crehre punctulatis antennis flavis articulis cluobus primis nigris elytris nigris punctulatis macula magna juxtascutellare et altera parva humerali flavis medio undulatim flavofasciatis postico guttis dvMbus aurantiacis corpus infra et pedes nigris.
Long.
corp. 18 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
8 mm.
Hab.
Gamba Angola Africa  ah auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Mediumsized species head black rather closely punctured with shallow punctures sparsely clothed with small black hairs eijes large almost hemispherical antennce with fiist two joints black 3d to 11th light orange thorax black closely punctured clothed with a few black hairs  scuteUum very small hardly visible with a few fine black hairs  elytra black punctured throughout not very closely with small rather deep punctures there are also some small fine black hairs over the whole elytra which are marked with a median yellow transverse band and also spots anterior and posterior to it these markings arranged as follows  on each elytron near the base is a large almost circular bright jellow spot behind this is the irregular rather wide median transverse yellow band which would lie in front of a transverse line which might be drawn to divide the elytron into two halves  about midway between this band and the posterior margin of the elytron are two orangered spots nearly round the larger of these which is smaller than the basal spots above mentioned is near the sutural margin of the elytron almost on a line with the basal spot the other hardly half as large lies opposite at the outer margin of the elytron  basally at the extreme humeral margin of the elytron is a yellow spot longer than wide reaching to the margin of the elytron and narrowly connected with the median yellow band legs black blackly hair the front femora and tibise covered with short yellowish silky hairs on their inner surface.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12123 U. S. N. M. In some specimens the basal spots both juxtascutellar and humeral show a tendency to become confluent with the median fascia.
This species is very prolific and appears in great numbers during the rains.
In March 1908 at Gamba Angola I collected 194 specimens in a few hours.
Its principal food plant is Tribulus zegheri.
46.
Mylabris M. rufitarsis Mars. Jom.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat .
Lisb.VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 52.
Loanda Welwitsch HuiUa Anchieta.
47.
Mylabris M.' senegalensis Voigts Wien.
Ent.
Zeit. XXI p. 178.
Mylabris hifasciata Oliv. Ent. Ill 47 p. 5 tab.
1 fig.
10 nee Degeer.
Angola Welwitsch Angola  aus dem inneren  Pogge.
Described from Senegal also a variety var.
conjuncta Voigts Wien.
Ent.
Zeit. XX p. 217 from DaresSalaam.
48.
Mylabris M. sibylae Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra statura magna sat rohusta nigropubescens capite antenna articulis 1 2 nigris 2 3 fulvis reliquis flavis palpis hrunneis prothoraceque nigris subtiliter punctulatis nigrovillosis hoc longitudine paulo latior medio leviter biimpresso elytris nigris dense subtiliter punctatis maculis 2 juxtascuteUare et humerali obscure aurantiacis fascisque 2 prima anteriore ad medium Integra secunda inter medium et apicem interrupta obscure rufoaurantiacis ornatis.
Corpus infra et pedes nigra nigropubescentia.
Long.
Corp. 24 mm.
Lot.
elytr.
13 mm.
Hah.
Gamba Angola Africa ah auctore coUecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Large black species rather robust clothed with very short black pubescence which is longer on the head thorax and abdomen.
The head and thorax are feebly punctulate the latter doubly though feebly impressed.
Eyes large not very convex.
Antennce with the first two joints black the second and third fulvous and the remainder light orangeyellow.
The palpi are brownish.
Scutellum very small triangular.
Elytra closely and finely punctate each elytron with two spots juxtascutellar and humeral and two fasciae the first in front of the middle the second about midway betweexi the median band and the apex of the elytron.
The two spots and the median band are dark orange the posterior band which is sometimes interrupted dark orangered.
Legs and body black clothed with black hairs the internal surface of the front legs covered with short pale silky hairs.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12124 U. S. N. M. Twentyfour specimens taken in March 1908 on the flowers of Trihulus zegheri.
49.
Mylabris M. tincta Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. 1843 I p. 256.
Angola Erichson Angola Marseul Angola Welwitsch.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
50.
Mylabris M. tindila Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra parva nigropuhescens caput dense puntulatum nigroviUosum antennis flavis articulis duohus primis nigris thorax parvus dense punctidatus nigrovillosus latitudine longior postice longitudinaliter foveolatus elytra dense suhtiliter punctata liniis dorsalihus 3 distinctis nigropubescentia fasciis tribus uiululatis flavis suturam attingentibus corpus infra et pedes nigra.
Long.
Corp. 12 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
5 mm.
Hah.
Gamba Angola Africa  ah auctore collecta.
Typ.
incoll.
mea.
A rather small species head densely punctulate blacklj pubescent with a longish vertical smooth boss between the eyes.
Eyes prominent.
Antennce with first two joints black the next three dark yellow the remainder light yellow.
The palpi are black hairy.
Thorax small narrow longer than wide conical in front densely punctulate with a small longitudinal median fovea at its posterior third.
Scutellum small.
Elytra black finely and closely punctured with three yellow bands placed much as in M. liquida Erichs.
except that the basal fascia has no tendency to become interrupted.
The three longitudinal veins or lines on the elytra are very distinct.
Legs and under side of body black blackly pubescent.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12125 U. S. N. M. Two specimens taken March 1908 on the flowers of Trihulus zegheri.
The specific name is a Bantu word meaning rare.
51 Mylabris M. tricolor Gerst. Peter's Reis.
n.
Mozamb. 1862 p. 297. pi.
17 fig.
11.
Humbe Anchieta.
Described from Mozambique.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
52.
Mylabris M. trispila Mars. Jorn.Sci.Math.Phys.
Nat.Lisb.VII No.XXVp.55 1879.
Loanda Welwitsch Huilla Anchieta.
53.
Mylabris M. tristigma Gerst. Monatsb.
Bed.
Acad. 1854 p. 694.
Described from Mozambique.
The Angolan examples may be regarded as at least representing a distinct western geographical race which may be described as follows  Mylabris M. tristigma tribuli Wellm.
subsp.
nov. Nigra angusta valde elongata capite crebre punctato nigrovilloso antennis articulis primis duobus fulvis reliquis flavis.
Labrum fulvum palpis inflatis truncatis flavis thorace crebre punctato longitudine latiore medio impresso postice elevate.
Elytra flava fortiter punctata nigropubescentia margine basalt maculis duabus antemedium altera pone suturam altera majore laterali fascia submediana apiceque nigris.
Corpus infra et pedes tarsi primi postici excepti nigra nigropubescentia.
Long.
Corp. 20 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
5 mm.
Hab.
Gamba Angola Africa  ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
This insect which quite possibly represents a new species is described for the present as a subspecies of tristigma Gerst. from which it differs inter alia by the longer and narrower body the shape of the head and eyes the much larger black spots on the anterior part of the elytra the different marking of the posterior portion which shows a complete yellow band instead of the two yellow spots on a broad black apical band etc.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12126 U. S. N. M. Three specimens taken at Gamba on flowers of Tribulus zegheri March 1908.
The type of tristigma is in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
54.
Mylabris M. tristriguttata Mars. Jom.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 55.
Mylabris  ristriguttata Mars. Champion Soc.
Ent.
Belg.
Ann. XLIII 1899 p. 165 ex error.
Loanda Welwitsch.
Subgenus CEROCTIS Mars.
55.
Mylabris C. amphibia Mars. Mm.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Lige 1872 p. 559 pi.
V fig.
70o.
Angola Marseul.
56.
Mylabris C. angolensis Gemm. Col. Hefte VI 1870 p. 123.
Mylabris phalerata Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 256.
Angola Erichson Angola Welwitsch.
Type in Berlin Konighches Museum marked Angola Schonh.
57.
Mylabris C. bohemanni Mars. Mm.
Soc.
roy.
Sci.
Liege 1872 p. 198 pi.
V fig.
69.
Capangombe Anchieta.
Described from Caffraria.
58.
Mylabris C. exolamationis Mars. ibid. p. 562 pi.
V fig.
72a.
Amberix  
Ambriz Marseul Bengo Welwitsch Gamba March 1908 on flowers of Tribulus zegheri 16 specimens Wellman.
59.
Mylabris C. interna Har. Mitth.
Munch.
Ent.
Ver. 1878 p. 108.
Angola Welwitsch a specimen in the British Museum labeled as Coryna lata Reiche Angola Mechow Pungo Andongo end of July PoGGE and Hohmeyer Chiyaka 1 specimen on grass December 1906 1 specimen on Geigeria wellmani September 1907 20 other specimens on Compositse chiefly Geigeria and Othonnaspp.
Wellman.
Described from the interior of Guinea and placed by its author in the genus Bruchus.
C. vespina Thos.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 6 XIX p. 501 from east Africa has been sunk as a synonym of the species under discussion but a series of 40 specimens from the Congo now in the United States National Museum together with my own examples show that vespina the type of which is in the British Museum should be retained as a distinct and stable variety of interna the front brown fascia of the latter being quite constantly reduced to two dots in the former.
In the description vespina is not compared with interna but with yerhuryi Gahan from which it differs not especially as is stated by Thomas in the elytral banding but in the color and structure of the antennae the type of vespina has no antennae which are very different.
The type of interna is in Berlin Konigliches Museum and has Regn.
Lunda on the locahty lalel.
60.
Mylabris C. serricornis Gerst. Peter's Reis. 1862 p. 300 pi.
18 fig.
1.
Loanda Huilla Welwitsch Humbe Anchieta.
This fine species was first described from Mozambique.
In the type in Berlin Konighches Museum marked ''Mozamb.
Peters the legs are rather less hairy than in ordinary specimens.
61.
Mylabris C. trifurca Gerst.. Monatsb.
Berl.
Acad. 1854 p. 694.
Chiyaka 1 specimen taken digging in native path 1 specimen in large orchid October 1907 2 other specimens one on flowers of Faroa wellmani and one flying December 1907 Wellmax.
Described from Mozambique.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum marked Sena Peters.
Genus ELETICA Lacord. Gen. Col. V p. 672.
62.
Eletioa colorata Har. Mitth.
Munch.
Ent.
Ver. 1878 p. 108.
Angola  aus dem inneren  Pogge Chiyaka November 1907 taken flying in bright sunshine after a rain 2 specimens Wellmax.
Described from the interior of Guinea.
Kolbe Col. aus Afrika I p.
178f.
considers hicolor Champ.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
Lond. 1890 p. 645 tab.
56 fig.
8 from Central Africa as a synonym of this species.
The type of colorata is in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
63.
Eletioa Iseviceps Kolbe Ent.
Nachr.
XII p. 299.
Chiyaka November 1907 Wellmax.
A single specimen wiiich lit on my hat in bright sunshine.
Described from the Congo.
This species is very near rufa . if indeed it can be separated from it.
The type of Iceviceps is in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
64.
Eletica ornatipennis Luc Bull.
Soc.
Ent.
Fr. 1887 p. XXVII.
Huilla Campana.
65.
Eletica rufa Fabr. Syst.
El. II p. 78.
Lytta hipustulata Fabr. loc.
cit. p. 78.
Eletica cardinalis Per. Trans.
S. Afr.
Phil.
Soc IV.
p. 136.
Angola Welwitsch Angola Monteiro Angola Axchieta Chiyaka January 1908 twelve specimens Wellmax.
Always taken about 911 A.M. flying or rarely crawling in bright sunshine after a rain.
One specimen also lit on my hat.
First described from Senegal.
This is an extraordinarily variable species ranging from light red to coal black some individuals even having the elytra pale yellow with black tips.
I suspect that some of the black forms described under other names are nothing but variations of rufa but as yet have been unable to examine the types.
66.
Eletica stuhlmanni Kolbe Stett.
Ent.
Zeit. LV p. 183.
Chiyaka November 1907 three specimens Wellman.
Brought to me by my servant.
Described from Lake Albert Nyanza.
It is probable that my specimens represent a new form very closely allied to stuhlmanni but the specimeas are in such bad condition that I cannot separate them from Kolbe's species without further material.
The type of stuhlmanni is in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
Tribe LYTTINI.
Genus LYTTA Fabr. Syst.
Ent. p. 260.
Cantharis Linn. Act.
Ups. 1736 p. 19 pars.
Lagorina Muls.
et Rey. Ins.
Canth. 1858 p. 150.
67.
Lytta amethystina Miikl. Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Fenn. 1875 p. 602.
Chiyaka running about on ground in company with L. signifrons Fahr. 56 specimens Wellman Described from Senegal.
68.
Lytta atrocoerulea Har. Mitth.
Mtinch.
Ent.
Ver. 1878 p. 108.
Angola  ''aus dem inneren  Pogge.
Described from the interior of Guinea.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
69.
Lytta buqueti Makl. Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Fenn. 1875 p. 602.
Humbe Anchieta.
Described from Senegal.
70.
Lytta chalybea Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 258.
Cantharis seyninitens Mars. Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb.
VII No XXV 1879 p. 60.
Angola Erichson Angola Welwitsch Loanda Hohmeyer Angola MoNTEiRo Gamba March 1908 on flowers of Tribulus zegheri 146 specimens Wellman.
A comparison of the material in Berlin and London with my series shows that Erichson's and Marseul's species are the same.
The type of chalybea is in Berlin K5nigliches Museum.
71.
Lytta cinctifrons Mars. loc.
cit. p. 61.
Humbe Anchieta.
72.
Lytta episcopalis Har. Mitth.
Munch.
Ent.
Ver. 1878 p. 108.
Angola aus dem inneren  Pogge.
Described from the interior of Guinea.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
73.
Lytta hemicrania Mars. Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 61.
Angola Welwitsch.
74.
Lytta laminioornis Fairm. Notes Leyd.
Mus. X p. 270.
Humpata Kellen.
75.
Lytta maculifrons Makl. Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Fenn. 1878 p. 608.
Angola Welwitsch Angola Monteiro Hiimbe Anchieta.
76.
Lytta melanocephala Fabr. Syst.
El. II p. 77.
Lytta melanocephala var.
bilineata HaagRut. Deutsch.
Ent.
Zeit. ISSO p. 68.
Angola Welwitsch.
Described from Guinea.
HoagRutenberg's Lytta bilineata from Senegal is here treated as only a variation of melanocephala Fabr. but it is probable that the examination of more material would show it to be a constant and distinct geographical subspecies.
77.
Lytta metasternalis Fairm. Notes Leyd.
Mus. X p. 269.
Humpata Kellen.
78.
Lytta myrmido Fairm. Pet.
Nouv.
Ent. II p. 93.
Angola Fairmaire.
79.
Lytta notifrons Mars. Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 59.
Humbe Anchieta.
80.
Lytta peotoralis Gerst. Monatsb.
Berl.
Acad. 1854 p. 695.
Gamba March 1908 56 specimens Wellman never seen feeding but always running about restlessly on the ground like Carabidse.
The type of pectoralis Gerst.
is in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
Described from Mozambique.
Fairmaire Faun et Flor.
Carnal. Col. 1882 p. 84 has described another insect under the same name.
For this last species I would propose Lytta rubropeotus Wellm.
nom.
nov. 81.
Lytta signifrons Fhr. Ofv.
Vet.Ak.
Forh. XXVII p. 352.
Lytta Coelestina HaagRut. Deutsch.
Ent.
Zeit. 1880 p. 61.
Angola Welwitsch Chiyaka December 1908 running on ground in company with L. amethystina Makl. 28 specimens Wellm.n.
Described from Caffraria.
82.
Lytta Strigida Mars. Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 61.
Angola Welwitsch.
83.
Lytta subrugxilosa Miikl. Act.
Soc.
Sci.
Fenn. X p. 606.
Humbe Anchieta.
84.
Lytta thoracica Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 2.58.
Angola Erichson Gamba March 1908 on flowers oiTrihulus zegheri 10 specimens Wellm.n.
My examples show that the puncturing of the thorax is variable and not always so reduced in the c
cJ' as Erichson thought.
85.
Lytta vellioata Erichs. ibid. p. 258.
Angola Erichson.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
Genus EPICAUTA Redt.
Faun.
Aust. I p. 631.
Isopentra Reitt. Wien.
Ent.
Zeit. XXXIV p. 195.
86.
Epicauta canesoens Klug Erman.
Reis. 1835 p. 42.
Angola Welwitsch.
Described from Guinea.
87.
Epicauta prolifica Wellm.
spec.
nov. Nigra caput rufum lata oblonga pube densa depressa alba vestita caput magnum subpunctidatum antennoB filiformes thorax qvxidratus longitudine latior medio leviter sulcatus crebre punctatus elytra crebre punctata albomarginata medio lineaque dorsali longitudinali albis corpus infra pedesque dense albovestita pedes postici valde elongati.
Long.
carp.
12 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
6 mm.
Hab.
Chiyaka Angola Africa ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Avery short robust species black clothed with a dense covering of closely lying white hairs giving the insect a gray appearance.
Head large red a frontal spot the mouth parts and antennse are black feebly punctulate clothed with short white hairs very small and sparse on the vertex eyes long narrow and oblique antennce filiform first joint long second joint constricted before the base third joint twice as long as second and much longer than fourth.
Thorax quadrate wider than long with a very faint median longitudinal groove closely and finely punctured.
Scutellum small triangular.
Elytra also closely and finely punctured with a white dorsal vitta formed by a thicker arrangement of the hairs of the elytron reaching from the base to almost the apex of the elytron a white margin to the elytron formed in the same way.
The legs and under surface of the body are closely covered with fine white hairs.
There is a concave sericious spot on the inner surface of the front femora and tibise.
The hind legs are very long.
Type in my collection cotype Cat.
No.
12127 U. S. N. M. An interesting variety also occurs which may be briefly indicated as follows  Epicauta canescens var.
elunda Wellm.
var.
nov. Vitta dorsali elytrorum nulla.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
The absence of the most prominent marking gives the insect a strikingly different aspect.
The name is a local word referring to the place in which the type of the variety was found.
Seventyeight specimens of this species taken in November 1907 and February 1908.
It is usually found wandering aimlessly about on the ground but I have taken it eating potato tops and also bean leaves.
It is often mentioned by the natives as destroying their crops.
I once found them eating the young tender sprouts of a coarse branching grass Eragrostis sp..
Genus ENAS Latr. Hist.
Nat.
Crust.
Ins. Ill 1802 p. 186.
X8.
EnaS bicolor Cast. Hist.
Nat.
Ins. II p. 271.
Angola Bitta.
89.
Enas melanura Erichs. Wiegm.
Arch.
Naturg. I 1843 p. 2.59.
Angola Erichsox.
Genus'SYBARIS Steph. 111.
Brit.
Ent. V 1832 p. 70.
Prionotus KoU.
et Redt. Hiig.
Kasch. IV p. 356.
Lacordaire Gen. Col. V p. 683 suggests regarding the type said to have been found in England of this genus that it pourrait bien etre d'origine exotique.
I have examined the insect S. immunis Steph.
in the British Museum and believe that this must certainly have been the case.
90.
Sybaris flaveola Mars. Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 62.
Angola Welwitsch.
91.
Sybaris picta Mars. ibid. p. 62.
Humbe Anchieta.
Genus SITARIS Latr. Hist.
Nat.
Crust.
Ins. Ill 1802 p. 187.
Necydalis Fabr.
Criolis Muls.
Stenoria Muls.
92.
Sitaris hilaris Mars. Jom.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 64.
Angola Welwitsch.
Genus ZONITIS Fabr. Syst.
Ent. 1775 p. 126.
Apalus Oliv. Encyc.
nieth. I p. 165.
Megatrachelus Mot.sch. Bull.
Mosc 1845 p. Stenodera Eschsch. Mem.
Acad.
Imp.
Sci.
Pet. VI 1818 p. 469.
Zonitides Abeille de Per. BvUl.
Soc.
Toul. XIV 1880 p. 253.
Tmesidera Westw. Guer. Mag.
Zool.
Ins. 1841 tab.
85 pars.
Euzonitis Sem. Hor.
Soc.
Ent.
Ross. XXVII 1893 p. 276.
Subgenus 1.
ZONITIS Fabr.. loc.
cit. p. 126 sens.
sir..
Subgenus 2.
NEMOGNATHA lUig.
Mag.
Ins. VI 1807 p. 333.
Leptopalpus Guer. Icon.
Ins. p. 136.
Subgenus 3.
GNATHIUM Kirby Trans.
Linn.
Soc.
Lond. XII p. 425.
I propose to follow Casey Ann.
N. Y. Acad.
Sci. VI 1891 p. 170 in treating Nemognatha and Gnathium under Zonitis.
This will necessitate changes in synonymy principally of the American species which need not be entered into at this time.
The elongated outer lobe of the maxillae is the only real character separating the two first mentioned groups from Zonitis proper and this character fails in several American species and also in the new species of Nemognatha described in the present paper.
The differences between Nemognatha and Gnathium are even slighter the antennal and thoracic characters often leaving one in doubt as to which group an insect should go.
Nevertheless the divisions are useful to a certain extent and I do not follow Casey in sinking the names entirely but suggest that they both be considered as subspecies of Zonitis.
The following artificial table shows how the main characters run through the three groups of the genus  ..4.
 Palpi not elongated.
Antennae not thickened at tips .
.
Zonitis sens.
str..
A A.
 Palpi elongated the maxillary palpi often forming a sucking proboscis.
a.
 Antennae not thickened at tips .
.
.
Nemognatha.
aa.
 Antennae thickened at tips Gnathium.
Subgenus ZONITIS Fabr.
sens.
str..
93.
Zonitis Z.
antennalis Wellm.
spec.
nov. Gracilis lutea antennce pectiis et pedes tibiis exceptis nigra capite prothoraceque valde elongatis angustis subtiliter punctulatis hoc triimpresso impressionihus hand profundis antennis fortiter serratis palpis nigris apice oblique truncatis.
Elytra dense subtiliter punctata submedio nigrofasciata.
Pectus pedes et abdomen pallidosericea.
Long.
corp. 12 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
4 mm.
Hab.
Chiyaka Angola Africa ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
A striking species both from its form and coloration.
Luteous except the mouth parts antennae breast and legs which are black the tibiae having the upper portion also luteous.
Head and thorax long and 40 narrow finely pimctulate the latter with three shallow impressions.
Labrum luteoiis provided with a fringe of strong yellow hairs.
The antennce are strongly serrate.
Eyes strongly reniform.
Palpi black with apices obliquely truncate.
Elytra closely and finely punctured and ornamented with a broad black band somewhat in front of their middles.
Breast legs and abdomen with pale silky hairs.
One specimen November 1907.
94.
Zonitis Z.
prionocera Wellm.
spec nov. Caput prothorax scutellum et abdomen lutea antennce elytra pectus et pedes nigra capite prothoraceque elongatis angustis sparsim punctulatis antennis nigris serratis articulis 1 2 nitidis elytris dense suhtiliter punctatis albosuhpubescentihus.
Pedes nigri tibiis parte superiore luteis.
Pedes et abdomen pallidosericea.
Long.
Corp. 10 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
5 mm.
Hab.
Chiyaka Angola Africa  ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Graceful species head thorax scutellum and abdomen luteous antennae elytra breast and legs except the upper portion of the tibise black.
Head and thorax long narrow rather finely punctured.
Eijes strongly reniform antennce serrate first 2 joints very shining sparsely punctulate rest dull and clothed with microscopic hairs 3d joint shorter than 4th scutellum very finely punctulate and with microscopic hairs.
Elytra shining irregularly and rather finely punctured.
Legs black closely punctulate upper f of tibiae luteous.
Breast and abdomen punctulate sparsely covered with microscopic hairs.
One specimen taken in November 1907.
Subgenus NEMOGNATHA Illig.
95.
Zonitis N. angolensis Har. Col. Heft XVI 1879 p. 142. 
Wahrscheinlich von Loanda oder von Pungo Andongo Hohmeyer.
Harold.
Type in Berlin Konigliches Museum.
96.
Zonitis N. annulioornis Mars. Jorn.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV p. 65.
Angola Welwitsch.
97.
Zonitis N. cioonia Mars. ibid. p. 66.
Mossamedes Anchieta.
98.
Zonitis N. posoka Wellm.
spec nov. Parva caput pectus scutellum et pedes nigra thorax et abdomen lutea elytra viridiccerulea capite suUiliter punctulato antennis filiformibus palpis plus minusve elongatis sed palpis maxillaribus prohoscidem non formantibus totis nigris albopubescentibus labro albovilloso thorace luteo lata sparsim punctulato elytris dense punctulatis nigrosybpubescentibus.
Pectus et pubes nigra albosericea pedes postici valde elongati.
Long.
Corp. 9 mm.
Lat.
elytr.
4 mm.
Hab.
Chiyaka Angola Africa  ab auctore collecta.
Typ.
in coll.
mea.
Small elegant species head and thorax broad rather coarsely and sparsely punctured with pale microscopic hairs.
Antennce filiform first three joints of about equal length.
Scutellurn very finely punctulate.
Elytra more finely and closely punctured than head and thorax.
Breast and abdomen very feebly punctulate covered with short fine pale hairs femora with similar hairs tibiae and tarsi with coarse short black hairs thickly set.
One specimen taken in November 1907.
The specific name is a local Bantu word meaning beautiful.
99.
Zonitis N .
scapularis Mars.
 Jom.
Sci.
Math.
Phys.
Nat.
Lisb. VII No.
XXV 1879 p. 67.
Angola Welwitsch.
Genus DERIDEA Westw. Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1875 p. 226. 
Iselma Haag.Rut. Deutsch.
Ent.
Zeit. XXIII 2 1879 p. 401.
Westwood in founding this genus referred it with an interrogation to the Helopida remarking in his diagnosis  unguibussimplicibus.
Fairmaire also Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Fr. 1891 p. 265 says of  Doridea sic Westw.
that while it rappelle au premier bord certaines especes du genre Nemognatha still il en differe par les crochets des tarses simples.
Thomas Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 1897 p. 389 has pointed out that the claws are divided.
The only properly generic character given by HaagRutenberg for his genus Iselma is that the claws are nonpectinated and this character is shared by Deridea.
The diagnoses of both genera come very near to Zonitis with the exception of this important character and I am inclined at present to sink Iselma as a synonym of Deridea which I am convinced by an examination of the type at Oxford and a series of specimens in the British Museum should be regarded as a good genus belonging by virtue of most of its characters to the Zonitis group but aberrant by reason of its nonpectinated claws.
100.
Deridea curculionides Westw. Trans.
Ent.
Soc.
Lond. 1875 p. 226 Angola Rogers.
Type in Oxford Hope Department.
SUBFAM.
HORIIN.
Genus HORIA Fabr. Mant.
Ins. I 1787 p. 164.
Cissites Latr. Gen. Crust et Ins. II 1807 p. 211.
Gahan has recently worked out the vexed synonymy of this genus in a valuable paper which I have read by the kindness of the author in manuscript. I here adopt his synonymy which is the same as that of Aurivillius ubi infra of the species reported from Angola.
101.
Horia afrioana Auriv. Ent.
Tidskr. XI 1890 p. 203. 
Horia senegalensis  nee 6 Cast. Hist.
Nat.
Ins. II 1840 p. 280. 
Horia Cissites testacea Fab. De Borre Ann.
Soc.
Ent.
Belg.
C.R. 1883 p. 136.
Angola Welwitsch.
Described from the Congo and referred to the genus Cissites.
 Since this was written Mr. Gahan's paper has been published Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. Ser.
8 Vol.
II 1908 p.
199f.
under the title Notes on the Coleopterous genera Horia Fab. and Cissites Latr. and a List of the Described Species.
The following reports were ordered to be printed  REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
Since the last report of the Recording Secretary the meetings of the Academy have been held as provided by the ByLaws on the first and third Tuesdays of each month from December 3 1907 to May 19 1908 and from October 6 to November 17 1908 with an average attendance of fortyeight.
Verbal communications most of them illustrated with lantern views were made at these meetings by the late Wilham S. Vaux Jr. George Vaux Jr. Stewardson Brown Casey A.
Wood Witmer Stone John W. Harshberger Philip P. Calvert Henry Skinner Edwin G. Conklin Henry W. Cattell Harold Sellers Coulton Spencer Trotter Miss Walter Charles S. Boyer Thomas S. Stewart Frank J. Keeley and Henry A. Pilsbry.
Thirtyone papers have been presented for publication by the following authors Henry A. Fowler 4 Henry A. Pilsbry 3 Henry A. Pilsbry and Y. Hirase 2 Witmer Stone 2 Ralph V. Chamberlin 2 Harold Sellers Coulton 2 E. P. Van Duzee 1 Frank M. Surface 1 William S. Vaux Jr. 1  Frederick W. True 1  Chiyomatsu Ishikawas 1 Arthur Erwin Brown 1 Clarence B. Moore 1 John Otterbein Snyder 1 J. Percy Moore 1 James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 1  Robert T. Young 1  John W. Harshberger 1  Philip P. Calvert 1  Thomas H. Montgomeiy 1  F. Creighton Wellman and Walther Horn 1 James A. G. Rehn 1.
Of these twentyeight have been accepted for publication in the Proceedings and are now mostly in type one was withdrawn by the author one remains to be acted on and one by Clarence B. Moore forms the fourth and concluding number of the thirteenth volume of the Journal.
It is illustrated with fine text figures and eight plates beautifully printed in colors.
As usual we are indebted to the author for the entire cost of publication.
The issues of the various pubhcations of the Academy during the year have amounted to 1939 pages and 133 plates as follows Proceedings for 1907 159 pages and 9 plates for 1908444 pages and 25 plates Journal Vol.
XIII PI.
4 132 pages and 8 plates Entomological News 500 pages and 25 plates Transactions of the American Entomological Society Entomological Section of the Academy 375 pages and 25 plates The Manual of Conchology 329 pages and 41 plates.
This is 217 pages and 29 plates more than the issue of the preceding year.
The statistics of distribution remain the same as for the last two or three years.
Four members have been elected the deaths of eleven members and six correspondents have been announced and Caroline A. Burgin Hannah Streeter and Morris Earle have resigned their memberships.
The Hayden Medal for 1905 was presented to Dr. Walcott at the meeting held January 7 advantage being taken of the occasion to invite the members of the Academy and their friends to meet the distinguished recipient of the award.
The address of presentation was made by Dr. Persifor Frazer and responded to by Dr. Walcott.
The delay in presentation was due to the preparation of a new and greatly improved design for the medal.
Under the terms of the amended deed of trust providing for the making of the awards once in three years the Hayden Memorial Committee unanimously recommended the grant for 1908 be made to Prof. John Mason Clarke in recognition of the value of liis brilliant work as State Geologist of New York.
The Council has authorized the Publication Committee to prepare an index to the entire series of the publications of the Academy to include the issues to the end of 1910 and to be published in connection with the celebration of the centenary of the Academy in 1912.
Such an index has been long desired by students of natural history who have felt the need of a key to the wealth of the contributions to knowledge many of them of the first importance issued under the auspices of the Academy by many of the leading naturalists of America.
Of the 83 volumes which will have been published by the Academy at the close of 1910 the manuscript index to the first eight volumes of the octavo Journal and the first 19 volumes of the Proceedings has been completed.
It is divided into two sections Authors and subject and genera and species.
Dr. Henry Skinner was appointed a delegate to the International Congress on Tuberculosis held at Washington last September.
Resolutions were adopted and duly forwarded endorsing the action of the President of the United States in calling a conference to consider plans for the conservation of the forestry agricultural mineral and other natural resources of the United States and in support of bills for the purchase and preservation of the forest areas of the Southern Appalachians and of the White Mountains as National Forest Reservations.
Edward J Nolan Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
With regret the Corresponding Secretary records the death during the past year of the following named correspondents of the Academy Henry Benedict Medlicott Lord Kelvin Henry Clifton Sorby Prof. Spiridion Brusina Prof. Gustav Mayr and Prof. William Kieth Brooks.
No corresponding members were elected.
During the year a few additional photographs and biographical sketches of correspondents were received and have been added to our files.
Invitations to the Academy to participate in the following notable events were received  The Third International Botanical Congress and the First Congress of Administrative Sciences both to be held in Brussels in 1910 the Prehistoric Congress of France the Centenary Jubilee of the PhysicoMedical Society of Erlangen the Inauguration of Dr. Albert R. Hill as President of the University of Missouri the opening of the new Hall of the Physical Institute of Frankfort a. M. and the University of Cambridge celebration of the centenary of the birth of Charles Darwin and the fiftieth anniversary of the publication of the Origin of Species.
Suitable letters of acknowledgment or congratulation were in each case forwarded and as the Academy's representative to the last named Dr. Arthur Erwin Brown has been appointed.
In this connection it may interest the members of the Academy to know that Darwin was elected a correspondent on March 27 1860 within four months of the publication of the Origin of Species and that this Academy was therefore probably the first society to place its official stamp of approval upon this epochmaking work.
An invitation from the Section of Geology and Mineralogy of the New York Academy of Sciences to join in organizing a series of general geological meetings for the eastern United States was referred to the Geological and Mineralogical Section of the Academy.
A letter of thanks for the use of the Academy's Hall for its session of 1907 was received from the American Ornithologists' Union.
Notices of the death of seven scientific men of distinction were received and acknowledged by letters of sympathy.
Copies of resolutions approving of the movement to establish White Mountain and Southern Appalachian forest reserves and commending the purpose of the conference to consider the conservation of natural resources were forwarded to members of Congress and other persons concerned and brought numerous favorable responses.
Pursuant to instructions of the Council the Corresponding Secretary received from several members subscriptions aggregating fifty dollars which sum was forwarded as a contribution from the Academy to the fund for erecting in Paris a monument to Lamarck.
The numbers of letters requesting information received and answered continues to increase.
The statistics of the correspondence for the year follow  Communications Received.
Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 217 Transmitting publications 65 Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 4 Invitations to learned gatherings 7 Notices of death of scientific men 8 Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions etc. .
.
16 Biographies and photographs of correspondents 4 Miscellaneous letters 88 Total received 409 Communications Forwarded.
Acknowledging gifts to the Library 1073 Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 56 Acknowledging photographs and biographies 3 Requesting the supply of deficiencies in journals 84 Letters of sympathy or congratulation 9 Miscellaneous letters 101 Annual Reports sent to correspondents 221 Circular letters 90 Total forwarded 1637 Respectfully submitted J. Percy Moore Corresponding Secretary.
REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN.
The growth of the Library during the past year has been satisfactory notwithstanding the inconvenience due to the alteration of the premises required by the plans adopted by the Council.
The accessions since the first of last December number 7070 an increase on those received last year.
There were 5905 pamphlets and parts of periodicals 973 volumes 192 maps photographs and plates.
1908.
629 They were received from the f ollomng sources  Societies Museums etc 2505 I. V. WilUamsoii Fund 2014 General Appropriation 677 Editors 530 United States Department of Agriculture 336 United States Department of the Interior 187 Authors 148 James Aitken Meigs Fund 139 Geological Survey of Canada 47 Geological Survey of Russia 42 Estate of Angelo Heilprin 40 Wilson Fund 30 Geological Survey of Japan 22 United States Department of Commerce and Labor 20 Pennsylvania State Department of Agriculture 18 North Carolina Geological Survey 17 Department of Agriculture of Netherland India 17 Trustees of British Museum 15 Department of the Interior of the Philippines 14 Geological Survey of Sweden 13 Ministry of Public Works France 12 UnitedStates PubUc Health and Marine Hospital Service 11 International Biueau of American Republics 11 Illinois State Geological Survey.... 11 Department of Agriculture in India 10 Ministry of Colonization Bolivia.. 9 United States War Department.
.
.
.
9 Commission de la Belgica 7 University of Texas Mineral Survey 7 United States Treasury Department 7 United States Bureau of Fisheries 6 Edward J. Nolan 5 Geological Survey of India 5 Geological Survey of Georgia Ministry of Works Mexico Geological Survey of Portugal Wisconsin Geological and Natural History Survey Victoria Department of Mines Department of Mines etc. New South Wales H. A. Pilsbry Publication Committee Academy Department of Agriculture Jamaica Western Australia Geological Survey New Jersey Geological Survey William J.
Fox Corps of Mining Engineers of Peru Cape of Good Hope Department of Agriculture Bureau of American Ethnology..
Superintendent of Documents Washington Rev.
A. Boutlou Department of the Interior Canada Geological Commission Cape of Good Hope Geological Institute of Mexico Geological Survey of Virginia United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Library of Congress Ministry of Agriculture Buenos Aires Bentham Trustees Kew Gardens Danish Government Department of Agriculture Canada New Zealand Geological Survey.... William B. Davis Botanical Survey of India Agricultural and Veterinary Faculty of La Plata Observatoire Central Nicolas Iowa Geological Survey 630 Dec M. le Due de Loubat H. Miiller Hanover Commissioners of Fisheries and Game Massachusetfes Dr. Henry Tucker Florida State Geological Survey.... Central Bureau voor de Kennis Provincie Groningen Genaro Garcia Marshall H. Saville and George G.Heye L. Kreischer Dr. H. C. Chapman William H. Welker Ministry of Works Peru Dr. Joseph Leidy Geological Commission of Finland L. Schiitzberger 2 Maryland Geological Survey 2 State Geological Survey of North Dakota 2 Nova Scotia Department of 2 Mines 2 Kommission zur Wissensch.
Untersuch.
der Deutschen Meere in Iviel Geodetic Survey of South Africa Government of India Estate of WilUam Ziegler Stewardson Brown Department of Geology etc. Indiana Department of Fisheries New South Wales Hawaii Promotion Committee Trustees Indian Museum They were distributed to the several departments of the hbrary as follows  Journals 5183 Geology 414 Agriculture 365 Botany 231 Voyages and Travels 150 Geography 145 General Natural History 99 Anatomy and Physiology 74 Ornithology 73 Entomology 68 Conchology 47 Anthropology 42 Ichthyology 28 Mammalogy 23 Mineralogy 22 Helminthology 21 Medicine 21 Physical Science 21 Bibliography Herpetology Encyclopedias Mathematics Chemistry Unclassified Eleven hundred and fiftythree volumes have been bound.
Fourteen volumes and 548 pamphlets dealing with subjects not germane to the objects of the Academy were sent to the Free Library of Philadelphia and in comphance with the law 8 duphcate volumes and 74 pamphlets were returned to the Government Printing Office.
At the beginning of the building operations it was necessary to temporarily arrange a part of the library on a section of the entresol floor to make room for the extension of the hall entered from Race Street as required by the adopted plan of alteration.
This change of course entailed disadvantages which it is hoped will be remedied when the entire library is arranged in the new building on the southern portion of the lot.
With the exception of works of reference encyclopedias etc.
 and possibly those on general natural history the entire library is to be arranged in tiers of steel stacks.
At present five such tiers are provided for extending from the ground to near the roof of the rear section of the new building thus securing increased room which is sadly needed and it is hoped safety from fire.
Irs.
James Woods of Camden Alabama has thoughtfully presented to the Academy a collection of seventeen letters written by Isaac Lea Timothy A. Conrad Samuel G. Morton Benjamin Silliman William Hall and John Finch from 1829 to 1835 to Judge Charles Tait of Claiborne Monroe Co. Alabama who was the first to develop with his correspondents the Claiborne beds of so much interest in American geology as furnishing the most noted deposits of Eocene shells.
The letters contain several items of personal interest and indicate especially the zeal and enthusiasm of a former President of the Academy Isaac Lea.
Acknowledgment is due William J.
Fox for his efficient assistance to the Librarian and the Publication Committee.
Edvard J. Nolan Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The erection of the new library stack lecture hall and study rooms and the alteration of the old building were begun early in the spring.
At the present time the alterations are practically completed wliile the new building is nearly ready for the roof.
A handsome entrance hall has been constructed at the Logan Square front which has been carried through the old lecture room making a direct communication wdth the first floor of the Museum.
The stairways which formerly connected the floors of the Museimi have been removed to the vestibule and all the rooms have been shut off both from the vestibule and from each other by regulation firedoors which greatly increase the safety of the collections.
A fireproof room has been constructed in the lower part of the old lecture hall which will be fitted up for the accommodation of the alcoholic collections where they will be shut off from all other parts of the Museum.
Heat and gas pipes and electric hght wires have been installed in the vestibules and entrance hall and a new boiler placed in the engine house.
During the early part of the year much time was spent in moving cases and rearranging exhibits preparatory to the alterations and since July 5 the Museum has been closed to the public the cases being covered up and many specimens removed for safety.
During the past month the cases on the first and second floors have been rearranged preparatory to reopening the'Museum and the work of reconstructing some of the bird cases is well under way.
Many shifts of position among the exliibition cases have been made necessary by the changes in doors and stairways and the walling off of the vestibule.
The final cleansing of the halls will be undertaken as soon as the painting of the walls and fireproofing of the columns are completed.
Early in the year the work of labelling the mounted birds was completed with the exception of the song birds and the exhibition collection of Mollusca was entirely rearranged.
Many of the articulated skeletons have also beto cleansed and remounted.
Owing to the condition of the Museiun however most of the work of the staff has been devoted to the study collections.
The old rooms of the Ornithological department having been largely torn away the entire series of bird and mammal skins has been removed to the top floor of the Museum where far more desirable quarters have been provided.
Thirtyeight mothproof metal cases and ten large white pine cabinets have been provided for plants insects and birds as well as 200 standard insect boxes.
Mr. Clarence B. Moore has presented another plate glass and mahogany case for the valuable additions to his collection of Indian antiquities obtained in the Southern States and Arkansas.
Dr. Pilsbry and Mr. Rehn each visited North Carolina for a few weeks during the year and made collections respectively of Mollusks and Orthoptera.
Through the Hberality of Mrs. Charles Schaffer Mr. Stewardson Brown was enabled to spend the entire summer in little known parts of British Columbia where he secured a valuable collection of plants largely ne to the herbarium.
He also visited Bermuda in February with the aid of the Esther Hermann Research Fund of the New York Academy of Sciences where another important collection was made.
Dr. J. P. Moore spent the summer at Woods Hole where some marine material was collected and numerous local collecting trips were made by other members of the Museum staff.
Among the important accessions of the year may be mentioned the Henry Skinner collection of Lepicloptera the Vanderpol collection of East Indian birds the Quadras collection of Philippine Mollusks all obtained by purchase.
Also the Herbst collection of Fungi presented by Mr. Herbst's estate and a valuable collection of Central American Coleoptera presented by Mr. F. D. Godman.
A number of interesting mammals were received from the Zoological Society of Philadelphia including the fine Indian elephant Bolivar nearly ten feet in height which is now being mounted in the taxidermical department.
Details of work in several departments will be found in the special reports in addition to which Mr. H. W. Fowler has continued his care of the fishes and Dr. J. P. Moore of the Annelids while Miss H. N. Wardle has been engaged upon the arrangement and cataloguing of the ethnological collections.
The Curators are also indebted to Mr. S. S. Van Pelt for valuable assistance in the herbarium and to Dr. P. P. Calvert and Mr. E. T. Cresson Jr. in the Entomological department.
Many specialists have made use of the collections during the year and specimens have been loaned to Dr. C. Hart Merriam Dr. Charles H. Eigenmann Samuel N. Rhoads W. D. W. IMiller and Robert Ridgway.
An idea of the extent of the Academy's collections at the present time may be gained from the following summary although some of the figures are necessarily approximate.
Of Mammals there are 12416 specimens of which 2500 are osteological or alcohoUc preparations 500 are mounted and the rest skins with skulls prepared separately.
The more important individual collections are the S. N. Rhoads collection of North American Mammals and the H. H. Smith collection from southern Brazil.
The Birds number 59579 specimens of which about 9000 are mounted and 1075 are osteological preparations.
There are also about 2500 nests and sets of eggs.
The notable collections comprise that of Massena Duke of Rivoli the John Gould Austrahan collection the Boys collection of Indian birds Canon Tristram's collection the Josiah Hoopes collection of North American birds the Harrison and Hiller collection from Sumatra the George L. Harrison collection from British East Africa on deposit and the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club local collection.
There are about 600 types mainly of Cassin Gould Townsend Gambel and Audubon.
The Reptiles and Batrachians amount to 18000 specimens the great majority being alcoholic they comprise among others the E. D. Cope collection and the Arthur Erwin Brown collection and include many types mainly of Cope and Hallo well.
The collection of Fishes consists of about 40000 specimens and contains the historic Bonaparte collection the Cope collection and also those of Hauxwell Orton H. H. Smith Harrison and Hiller Rijgersma and others.
There are many types of Cope Abbott and Fowler as well as cotypes of Girard's Mexican boundary fishes.
The Insects number about 369000 pinned specimens divided as follows  North American Exotic Species.
Specimens.
Species.
Specimens.
Tupes.
Hymenoptera .
.
.
10000 50000 1000 4000 3000 Lepidoptera .
3645 17000 3000 14000 500 Neuroptera .
300 2400 1200 400 100 Orthoptera .
684 17000 1038 10000 150 Diptera .
1300 10000 100 150 121 Hemiptera 700 3500 200 600 50 Coleoptera 10000 140000 5000 10000 2000 The most notable special collections are the Horn and Wilt collections of Coleoptera the Martindale and Skinner collections of Lepidoptera the Calvert collection of Neuroptera on deposit the Ostensaken cotypes of Diptera the Cresson and Bassett collections of Hymenoptera and the Henry C McCook collection of Insect Architecture.
The collection of Mollusks numbers over 100000 trays and more than 1500000 specimens.
Of this number 40000 trays have been catalogued and numbered as new accessions since 1893.
The older collection consists of the original collection of the Academy begun about 1817 by Thomas Say the Robert Swift collection of West Indian shells about 10000 specimens the A. D. Brown collection of land shells bequeathed to the Academy in 1887 5400 trays.
About 10000 trays of these collections have been catalogued and numbered.
The alcoholic collection of Mollusks consists of about 6000 lots probably over 75000 individual specimens.
The number of types of Say Conrad Tryon and others is not known but since the year 1901 925 types have been described from the new material received.
Other invertebrates number about 11500 specimens of which 4000 are Crustacea and 2800 worms.
The most important collections are the Guerin collection of Crustacea the H. C. Chapman collection of Marine Invertebrates from Naples and the Edward Potts collection of freshwater sponges.
The Herbarium contains about 584000 specimens of flowering plants and ferns comprising among others the collections of Muhlenberg on deposit Pursh de Schweinitz Nuttall Short and Charles E. Smith.
The Fungi Mosses Lichens and Algae number about 50000 specimens and include the collections of Sullivant de Schweinitz Eckfeldt Ashmead Martin Elhs and Everhart Herbst and Rex.
Both departments of the Herbarium are rich in types.
There is also a local Herbarium presented by the Philadelphia Botanical Club which contains about 20000 specimens.
The Palseontological collections comprise some 5000 specimens of Vertebrates and 45000 Invertebrates of which 3000 belong to the collection of the Pennsylvania Geological Survey on deposit and 7500 to the Isaac Lea collection also 1500 fossil plants.
There are many types of Leidy and Cope among the vertebrates and of Lea Conrad Gabb and Heilprin among the invertebrates.
The general collection of minerals consists of 8500 specimens while the William S. Vaux collection contains about 7500 additional.
Of rock specimens there are over 10000 in the Pennsylvania Geological Survey collection and about 3000 additional.
The general Archaeological and Ethnological department contains about 14000 specimens including the Samuel G. Morton collection of human crania the Peale Hawaiian collection the Haldeman American Indian collection and the Poinsett Mexican collection on deposit.
The Clarence B. Moore collection of Indian antiquities from mounds of the Southern States includes some 5000 specimens the basis of Mr. Moore's papers in the Journal of the Academy.
The William S. Vaux collection contains 2500 specimens largely from North America and Europe.
Summary.
Mammals 12416 Birds '.
59579 Reptiles 18000 Fishes 40000 Insects  369000 MoUusks '.
1575000 Other Invertebrates 11500 Herbarium 654000 Fossils 46500 Minerals 29000 Archaeology and Ethnology 21500 Total 2836495 Samuel G. Dixon Henry A. Pilsbry.
636 proceedings of the academy of dec Report of the Department of Mollusca.
The rearrangement of the general collection in exhibition cases has been almost completed tablecases of gastropods having been worked over during the year.
Considerable time has been given by Mr. Vanatta to the determination and description of Hawaiian mollusks sent by Mr. D. Thaanum of Hilo Hawaii and to the work of picking out and assorting upwards of 500 trays of shells from material gathered by the Curator last year in the Florida Keys.
Large quantities of leaves and forest debris gathered by Mr. C. B. Moore have also been picked over and much valuable material especially of very small mollusks obtained.
Mr. Y. Hirase has continued to send Japanese and Formosan material his latest sendings contain Korean mollusks which hitherto have been almost unknown.
About 100 new species have been described from this source during the year.
Other valuable accessions are a series of marine shells from the Great Barrier Reef Australia including cotypes of 19 new species from Charles Hedley.
A collection from northeastern Mexico from A.
A. Hinkley.
A series of Irish slugs from Dr. R. F. Scharff and many smaller accessions from numerous donors.
A large part of this material has been worked up and papers published thereon.
The time of the special Curator has been largely occupied in the preparation of the Manual of Conchology in which the families Oleacinidce and Fernssacidce have been described.
H. A. PiLSBRY Special Curator Dept.
of Mollusca.
REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS.
The Biological and Microscopical Section.
The membership of the Section has changed but little during the year.
Nine regular and several informal meetings have been held.
On March 30 the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Biological and Microscopical Section was observed by a banquet held in the Section Room at which were present regular and former members and the officers of the Academy.
The Director Dr. J. Cheston Morris presided and addresses were made by Dr. Samuel G. Dixon Dr. George A. Piersol Dr. Arthur E. Brown Mr. Witmer Stone Dr. Henry Skinner Dr. James Tyson Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry Mr. F. J. Keeley and Mr. C. S. Boyer.
The communications made dming the year may be briefly summarized as follows  Uses of the microscope in testing chemical preparations by Dr. D. E. Owen Leucocihemia the Tsetze Fly and various contagious diseases by Dr. T. S. Stewart opaque illumination and numerous other subjects by Mr. F. J Keeley miscellaneous objects exhibited and described by Mr. William B. Davis new and rare forms of diatomaceae by Mr. C. S. Boyer rare forms of diatoms from Barbadoes by Mr. J.
A. Shulze the organisms contained in various infusions by Mr. John G. Rothermel other communications by Mr. T. C. Palmer Mr. W. H. Van Sickel and Mr. Hugo Bilgram.
The officers elected for the year 1909 are as follows Director J. Cheston Morris M.D.
ViceDirector Conservator Recorder .
Corresponding Secretary Treasurer .
T. Chalkley Palmer.
F. J. Keele .
C. S. Boyer.
S. L. Schumo.
.
Thomas S. Stewart M.D.
Charles S. Boyer Recorder.
Entomological Section.
During the present year ten meetings of the Entomological Section have been held with an average attendance of ten persons.
As usual the large number of additions to the cabinet has necessitated the greatest amount of work in the department.
The large collection of American butterflies made by Dr. Henry Skinner numbering over 10000 specimens was purchased by the Academy.
Dr. F. D. Godman has presented 3529 Coleoptera representing 1140 species from the Biologia CentraliAmericarM collection a most valuable addition.
One hundred and eightyfour insects from Burma were purchased from W. Crumb.
Dr. Henry Skinner presented 56 Lepidoptera from various parts of the United States.
Seven hundred Orthoptera were collected by the Academy expedition to Virginia and North Carolina conducted by Mr. J.
A. G. Rehn.
About five hundred Orthoptera were presented by Witmer Stone Morgan Hebard and J.
A. G. Rehn from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
One hundred and fiftyfour Brazilian Orthoptera were purchased from C. F. Baker.
Two hundred Diptera from British Guiana were received from Charles T. Greene.
In all over 16000 specimens of insects were added to the collection.
Two hundred Schmitt boxes and four Brock tin cases were purchased.
41 638 Dec The large collection of North American Hymenoptera has been rearranged and some work done preparatory to the rearrangement of the Microlepidoptera.
All the determined Diptera except a few of the family Muscidse have been arranged in Schmitt boxes and many genera and species new to the collection were determined.
All of OstenSacken's types of Tipulidse and TabanadsB were marked and numbered.
In the order Orthoptera reports were completed on the specimens collected in Arizona in 1907 by Rehn and Hebard.
Considerable rearrangement has been done in the study series.
Dr. P. P. Calvert has continued his important work on the collection of Odonata and has finished his contribution to the pages of the Biologia CentraliAmericana.
A large number of Coleoptera has been incorporated into the collection including some interesting material from Fort Wingate New Mexico.
The Journal of the Section Entomological News has been continued and volume nineteen completed with 500 pages and 25 plates.
Two Associates were elected and one member died.
The following were elected to serve as officers for the year 1909  Philip Laurent.
.
H. W. Wenzel.
.
E. T. Cresson.
Henry Skinner.
.
E. T. Cresson Jr. Henry Skinner.
.
E. T. Cresson E. T. Cresson Jr. Respectfully submitted Henry Skinner M.D.
Botanical Section.
f During the year further progress has been made in placing the specimens in species covers and it is hoped to complete this important work at an early date.
The additions to the Herbarium consist of the Herbst collection of Fungi numbering more than 5000 specimens being the lifework of Dr. William Herbst of Trexlertown Pa. and presented to the Academy by Mrs. Herbst a collection of Pennsylvania Flowering Plants and Ferns numbering about 2000 specimens presented by Dr. H. D. Heller of Hellertown Pa. presentations from various members numbering about 200 specimens a small collection of Rubus Amelanchier and Betula purchased by the Section from Mr. W. H. Blanchard and a collection of 930 specimens of Balkan Plants purchased by the Academv.
Director ViceDirector Treasurer .
Recorder Secretary Conservator Publication Committee The Conservator spent about a month in the Bermudas during February and March of the present year by the aid of a grant from the Esther Hermann Research Fund of the New York Academy of Sciences when collections of over 800 herbarium specimens were made.
During the summer through the hberality of Mrs. Charles Schaffer and Miss Mary W. Adams he was enabled to make further studies of the flora of the Canadian Rocky Mountains ten weeks being spent in the region about the headwaters of the Saskatchewan and Athabasca Rivers when collections of more than 3000 herbarium specimens were made including a number of probably new species.
Owdng to the pressure of other duties it has not been possible to jet give this collection critical study.
 The activity manifested in previous years by the members of the Philadelphia Botanical Club has been maintained during the past season more than 2000 specimens being added to the local herbarium including a number of species not previously recorded as occurring in the region.
Mr. Samuel S. Van Pelt has continued his valuable services during the year as Curator of this important and rapidly growing section of the herbarium.
At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were elected for the 3ear Director ...... Benjamin H. Smith.
ViceDirector ..... Joseph Crawford.
Recorder ...... Charles S. Williamson.
Treasurer and Conservator .
.
.
Stewardson Brown.
Respectfully submitted  Stewardson Brown Conservator.
MiNERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Section has this year held eight meetings besides the December meeting 5et to come with an average attendance of about ten.
Communications were made by Prof. Amos P. Brown on ripple marks tracks and trails  by Mr. Edgar T. Wherry on two new antholite dikes in Philadelphia County and on the geology of the neighborhood of Jacksonwald Berks County by Dr. W. J. Sinclair on the geology of a portion of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado River by Prof. B. L. Miller on the geology of the Allentown quadrangle compared with the Philadelphia region by Mr. Gilbert Van Ingen on the geology of the area drained by the upper Susquehanna River by Ir.
J. F. Vanartsdalen on silicified wood in the Norristown shales of Bucks County by Prof. 0.
C. S. Carter on tubular concretions sheets and plates of Pensauken gravel cemented with iron hydroxide by Col. Joseph Willcox on the geology and mineralogy of St. Lawrence County New York and there were a number of shorter communications and various discussions.
There were ten field excursions with an average attendance of 25.
The excursions visited 1 The copper deposits of Upper Salford and Frederick Townships in Montgomery County 2 The crystalline schists and limestones between Alton and Glen Hall in Chester County 3 the New Red traps and shales between Quakertown and Perkasie in Bucks County 4 the region of Bethlehem in Northampton and Lehigh Counties 5 the New Red traps and shales in northern Bucks County 6 the silicified wood of the New Red and the minerals of the crystalline rocks between Woodbourne and Neshaminy Falls in Bucks County 7 the Cretaceous and Pleistocene formations near Pensauken Creek in Camden and Burlington Counties New Jersey 8 the trap at Aldham Chester County and the Cambrian Sandstone thence to Valley Forge 9 the crystalline rocks and their minerals near Lansdowne and up Darby Creek Delaware County 10 the crosssection of the Chester Valley from Devault to Malvern Chester County.
Three associate members have been added to the Section.
The following officers of the Section have been elected for the coming year Director .
ViceDirector Recorder and Secretary Treasurer Conservator Benjamin Smith Lyman.
.
George Vaux Jr. .
Silas L. Schumo.
Miss Emma Walter.
.
Frank J. Keeley.
Respectfully submitted Benjamin Smith Lyman Director.
Ornithological Section.
Since the last annual report the Ornithological Department of the Academy has been removed from its old quarters to the top floor of the Museum building  a far more desirable location well lighted and with ample space for the growth of the collections.
New racks have been erected to hold the cases and the latter have 1908.
641 been arranged in systematic order.
Many cases of large birds formerly stored elsewhere have been placed in their proper position so that the entire study series of birds is now for the first time brought together where it is readily accessible.
Mr. Rehn finished the cataloguing and relabelling of the Tristram collection during the year and this material numbering 6180 skins together with several smaller collections has been distributed in the general series.
Ten large wooden cabinets were secured for the accommodation of the AnatidiB and other large birds formerly arranged in temporary cases.
The labelling of the mounted birds was resumed early in the year and all the specimens with the exception of the song birds are now labelled with technical and vernacular names and locality.
Owing to the alterations to the building some of the exhibition cases had to be taken down or altered so that the collection has been temporarily disarranged but the erection of new cases will soon permit of their proper display.
jIany specimens of interest were secured during the year the most important being the Van der Pol collection of East Indian birds comprising 1.070 specimens representing many species not heretofore in the Academy's collection.
The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings in the building and have done much to maintain activity in this department.
In December 1907 the American Ornithologists' Union held its twentyfifth annual meeting at the Academy which in point of attendance and interest was the most successful ever held.
The officers of the Section for the ensuing year are  Director ViceDirector Secretary Recorder Treasurer and Conservator Spencer Trotter M.D.
George Spencer Morris William A. Shryock.
Stewardson Brown.
Witmer Stone.
Wither Stone Conservator.
The annual election of Officers Councillors and Members of the Committee on Accounts to serve during 1909 was held with the following result President .... Samuel G. Dixon M.D.
VicePresidents .
.
.
Arthur Erwin Brown Sc.D. Edwin G. ConkUn Ph.D. Recording Secretary .
.
Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Corresponding Secretary .
J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Treasurer .... George Vaux Jr.
Librarian .... Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Curators .... Arthur Erwin Brown Sc.D. Samuel G. Dixon M.D. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Witmer Stone.
Councillors to serve three years Charles B. Penrose M.D.. Charles Morris Henry Tucker M.D. Spencer Trotter M.D.
Committee on Accounts .
Charles Morris Samuel N. Rhoads Dr. C. Newhn Peirce John G. Rothermel Howard Crawley Ph.D. COUNCIL FOR 1909.
Exoao. Samuel G. Dixon M.D. Edwin G. Conklin Ph.D. Arthur E. Brown Sc.D. Edward J. Nolan M.D. J. Percy Moore Ph.D. George Vaux Jr. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Witmer Stone.
To serve Three Years.
 Charles B. Penrose M.D. Charles Morris Henry Tucker M.D. Spencer Trotter M.D.
To serve Two Years.
 Thomas H. Fenton M.D. John Cadwalader Edwin S. Dixon Henry Skinner M.D.
To serve One Fmr. Dr. C. Newhn Peirce Philip P. Calvert Ph.D. Thomas Biddle I.D. and Frederick Prime.
1908.
643 Curator of Mollusca .
Assistant Librarian Assistants to Curators Assistant Taxidermist .
Jessup Fund Students Janitors .
Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D.
William J.
Fox.
Henry Skinner M.D. Stewardson Brown J. Percy Moore Ph.D. Edward G. Vanatta Henry W. Fowler J.
A. G. Rehn.
H. Newell Wardle.
David N. McCadden.
H. Newell Wardle Ezra T. Cresson Jr. Charles Clappier Daniel Heckler James Tague Jacob Aebley.
