A NEW CALIFORNIAN CHITON.
BY S. S. BERRY.
Through the kindness of Dr. Harold Heath of Stanford University I have had placed at my disposal a series of small chitons dredged by him in Monterey Bay Cal.
Among them are several specimens of the curious Mopaliaheathii and an equally aberrant allied species which seems undescribed.
To contain these anomalous forms I propose the following new group.
DENDKOCHITON nov. subgenus.
Species small valves divided into more or less distinct areas in the usual manner insertion plates as in Ischnochiton the posterior valve without a posteriormedian sinus.
Valve I with 78 slits valves IIVII with 11 slits valve VIII with 68 slits.
Sculpture variable as in Mopalia
Girdle covered above with minute ovoid spinelets or spicules larger on the lower surface.
Sutural and intersutural tufts present the former well developed with a very long and branching central bristle.
This subgenus in large measure breaks up the distinction between the Mopaliidw and the Ischnochitonidce presenting many of the features proper to both groups.
In this connection it should be remarked that the girdle of even the true Mopalia is not strictly nude but in the young at least is furnished though not densely with minute spinelets very similar to those of Dendrochiton
Type the following species.
MopaliaDendrochitontnamnopora n. p. Plate XL figs.
4 5 6 8.
Shell small oblong rather narrow for Mopaliamuch elevated and strongly carinated the side slopes nearly straight.
Valves sharply beaked in front the lateral areas fairly well defined not raised having a few very faint radial grooves but without wellmarked sutural or diagonal ribs.
Central areas ornamented with a series of about nine or ten very strong low broad longitudinal riblets curved and converging toward the median ridge their intervals of nearly equal breadth not latticed or otherwise sculptured.
On the jugal tract these ribs are obsolete or wanting.
Entire surface minutely granularporous but not so 488 Aug. distinctly as in M. D. heathiiand due largely to the numerous sense organs which under high power appear with great clearness.
Anterior valve everywhere very finely granulose otherwise without distinct sculpture.
Central area of posterior valve reduced but similar in ornamentation to those of the median valves mucro anterior to the middle of the tegmentum posterior slope steep slightly concave posterior margin of the tegmentum in general semicircular but rather abruptly though not extensively squarish truncate or emarginate at the middle.
c Mopaliathamnopora.1.
Outline of entire animal.
2.
Girdle spines.
3.
Outline of interior of tail valve.
Anterior valve with 7 slits intermediate valves with 11 slits tail valve ischnoid with a regular crescentic insertion plate cut by 6 slits.
Sinus broad rather shallow in last valve narrower and minutely crenulate.
No median sinus behind and no indications of an approach to this condition other than the abovenoted squaring of the tegmentum.
Girdle narrow apparently nude even under a hand lens but shown by high power to be well clothed above with numerous exceedingly minute not very crowded ovoid spicules developed into stout elongate spines at the margin.
The spinelets of the lower surface are longer flatter and more pointed than those of the upper being somewhat intermediate in character between these and the marginal ones.
Opposite each suture is a pore from which springs a group of 1911.
489 about six recurved bristlelike hairs surrounding a single much larger and longer bristle which branches freely and in living or alcoholic material is a prominent feature even to the unaided eye.
Being very brittle these structures are frequently broken off but their stumps or pores are always evident and show a very regular arrangement.
Apparently homologous with the sutural tufts are two similar ones on each side of the head valve one on either side of the tail valve and one in the median line in front and behind.
In addition there is a second series of much smaller but equally distinct tufts lying just outside of the first and in more or less regular alternation with them as shown in fig.
1.
The long central bristles have a thickened sheathlike base from which are given off slender more or less recurved hairlike processes.
Altogether there are 22 of these major tufts besides an equal or slightly larger number of the minor alternating ones.
Color in alcohol a deep rosepink which may be either 1 without mottlings or 2 with a stripe of reddishbrown along each side or 3 with a broad irregular clouding of pale green accompanied by some lateral spots of brown or Indian red or 4 with median spots of bright orangeyellow on some of the valves and lateral markings of Indian red.
1 The typical form seems to be pink with sutural spots of brown and more or less green suffusion.
The girdle shows alternating bands of burnt sienna and pale buff.
The latter are sutural in position and there are also small intersutural spots of the same color.
The interior is rose paler toward the edges but not so vivid as in M. D. heathii
Length of largest specimen 9 mm.
 width 5 mm.
Type locality Off Monterey Cal. in about 15 fathoms H. Heath 1908.
Fifteen specimens examined as follows No.
11 3 1 Locality.
Depth.
Collector.
Date.
Author's Register.
Off Monterey Cal.
15 fms.
H. Heath.
Off Monterey Cal.
42 fms.
S. S. Berry.
Pacific Grove Cal.
Low tide.
S. S. Berry.
1908.
June 1906.
June 1906.
8 9 10 M. D. thamnopora seems nearer to the Mopaliaheathii of Pilsbry than to any other form known to me but is so widely diver1 This specimen has the usual ground color of pink with numerous small white spots and a few larger lateral ones of Indian red but is remarkable in that the central area of the first and second valves only is a clear bright cadmiumyellow.
38 490 Aug. gent in sculpture as well as in other particulars that a glance is sufficient to separate the two.
They agree in the characters upon which I have founded the present subgenus but otherwise do not seem to be remarkably close.
For the sake of comparison a few notes upon the latter species are appended.
MopaliaDendrochitonheathii Pilsbry.
PI.
XL figs.
1 2 3 7.
Mopaliaheathii Pilsbry '98 p. 288.
Mopaliaheathii Keep '04 p. 350 merely listed.
Mopaliaheathii Thiele '10 pp.
108 109.
Shell small oblong elliptical wide in relation to its length carinated rather elevated the sideslopes nearly straight.
Valves wide and short little beaked the lateral areas not raised ill defined central areas without sculpture 2 save the very fine even rather distant granulation which covers the whole surface.
Posterior valve with semicircular posterior outline the mucro anterior in position posterior slope concave but not so steep as in M. thamnopora
3 Mopaliaheathii.
 4.
Outline of entire animal.
5.
Large lateral tooth of the radula.
6.
Girdle spines.
7.
Outline of interior of tail valve.
Anterior valve with 8 slits intermediate valves with 11 last valve ischnoid with a regular crescentic insertion plate cut by 58 slits.
In the intermediate valves the insertion plates are continuous across the sinus.
2 Pilsbry writes The intermediate valves very faintly radially trisulcate at the sides but my specimens exhibit this feature with difficulty.
1911.
491 Except for the sutural bristles the girdle is stated to be nude but examination of specimens mounted in xylol or balsam and especially dissolving fragments in Javelle water shows that the condition is approximately the same as in D. thamnopora although the spicules are even smaller than in that species.
In none of the specimens seen were the bristles still adherent at all of the sutures.
Usually they are lost except around the posterior valve and even here they are rarely unbroken.
When complete they are longer than in the preceding species more slender lack any appearance of surrounding hairs at the base and give off shorter and less numerous recurved processes.
Originally there seem to have been one bristle opposite each suture from two to five in front of the head valve and two behind the tail valve.
There is no mention made by Pilsbry of intersutural tufts but I find that very small inconspicuous bristles are sometimes evident in the centre of the round whitish spots which are to be seen about the periphery.
Although so greatly reduced they seem clearly homologous with the structures holding a similar relation in the preceding species.
The color ornamentation is described by Pilsbry as follows 1 olivegreen with some lighter spots or purplish maculation or slight roseate suffusion or 2 vivid red with scattered blue spots.
With one exception my specimens are all of the latter type agreeing with one another further in that valve VI and to a less extent valves V and VII are irregularly clouded with a pale greenish hue.
The nine specimens I have seen are doubtless all immature.
Length of largest 11 mm.
 width 7 mm.
Type No.
71902 A. N. S. P. Type locality Monterey Bay Cal.
H. Heath 1897.
Specimens examined  No.
Locality.
Depth.
Collector.
Date.
Author's Register.
9 Off Monterey Cal.
15 fms.
H. Heath.
1908.'
3 Thiele has suggested that Mopaliaheathii may be a Ceratozona but although it is certainly suggestive of that genus in several ways I fail to see that it does not show equally significant approximation to the group in which it was originally placed.
The truth is that the diagnosis of either genus as previously recognized would have to be so greatly amplified to admit of the reception of the forms now before us that the erection of a new group would seem to be at present the safest course.
Literature.
Keep Josiah.
'04.
West American Shells.
San Francisco 1904.
Pilsbry Henry A.
'92.
Monograph of the Polyplacophora.
Man.
Conch.
1 XIV 1892.
'98.
Chitons collected by Dr. Harold Heath at Pacific Grove near Monterey Cal.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sri.
Phila. 1898 pp.
287290.
Thiele Johann.
'10.
Revision des Systems der Chitonen.
II.
Teil.
Zoologicn Heft 56 Bd.
22 pp.
71120 Pis.
VIIX 1910.
Explanation of Plate XL.
Fig.
1.
 Mopaliaheathii Pilsbry.
Head valve exterior.
Fig.
2.   ' Third valve exterior.
Fig.
3.    Tail valve exterior.
Fig.
4.
 Mopaliathamnopora Berry.
Head valve exterior.
Fig.
5.    Tail valve exterior.
Fig.
6.    Fifth valve exterior.
Fig.
7.
 Mopaliaheathii Pils.
Sutural bristle.
Fig.
8.
 Mopaliathamnopora Berry.
Sutural bristle.
PLATE XV.
J. P. MOORE POLYCHETOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XVI J. P. MOORE POLYCHETOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XVII.
J. P. MOORE POLYCH.TOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XVIII.
J. P. MOORE POLYCHTOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XIX.
i.ti J. P. MOORE POLYCHETOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XX.
J. P. MOORE POLYCHETOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XXI.
J. P. MOORE POLYCHGTOUS ANNELIDS.
PLATE XXII.
A Tttj I W. BROWN and P1LSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXIII.
BROWN and PILSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXIV.
BROWN AND PILSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXV.
V .t.
4 8 6 10 11 12 BROWN AND P1LSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXVI.
8 10 BROWN AND PILSBRYGATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXVII.
BROWN and PILSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXVIII.
10 11 BROWN AND PILSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXIX.
BROWN AND PILSBRY GATUN FOSSILS.
PLATE XXX.
con.j.
h  a neiu con.r.hT ri.neuTcon.t.
m.nuc neu.n neu.w.
1 N. E. Mclndoo del.
McINDOO LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS.
PLATE XXXI.
n.f.
int.b.
A s.
b. n.f.
b'.mfS'.C.n 4b.m.n.
nuc.C.
cu ca.
CLjt.S.
8 p.m ex.m.
X. K. Mclndoo del.
MCINDOO LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS.
PLATE XX XI I. N. K. Mclndoo del.
McINDOO LYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS.
PLATE XXXIII.
N. E. Mclndoo del.
McINDOOLYRIFORM ORGANS AND TACTILE HAIRS OF ARANEADS.
PLATE XXXIV.
BANKS ARACHNIDA FROM NORTH CAROLINA.
PLATE XXXV.
BANKS ARACHNIDA FROM NORTH CAROLINA.
PROC.
ACAD NAT.
SCI.
PHILA.
1911.
PLATE XXXVI.
II.
Crawley del.
CRAWLEY SARCOCYSTIS RILEYI STILES.
PLATE XXXVII.
PILSBRY OMPHALINA AND MESOMPHIX.
PLATE XXXVIII.
PILSERY OMPHALINA AND MESOMPHIX.
s r CD CO o id X  r Z   z D p CO o E o p  o  p z  H cn o id X r  CD 13 r  H M X
x x HH X PLATE XL.
BERRY NEW SPECIES OF MOPALIA.
NEW FRESHWATER FISHES FROM WESTERN ECUADOR.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
A small collection of fishes secured in the affluents of the Chimbo River near Bucay in the Province of Guayas Ecuador in July of 1911 was recently submitted to me for study by Mr. S. N. Rhoads.
At present this collection is placed on deposit in the Academy.
As the region in question presents some interesting hydrographic features Mr. Rhoads kindly contributes the following notes gathered from his recent explorations in the country where he obtained the collection.
The Rio Chimbo joining the Rio Chanchan several miles below Bucay flows almost directly southward from its source in the western foothills of Mount Chimborazo for a distance of about 50 miles.
It is more practically isolated in a faunal sense from the sources of all the other river systems of Ecuador flowing into the Pacific than any other watercourse of its size in that country.
This is due to its being hemmed in both east and west by the lofty parallel ranges of the Main or Central Cordilleras and that of the Pacific system of mountains which goes by the name of the Western Cordilleras.
Until it joins the Chanchan its waters have no alternative but to continue their precipitous and turbulent course due south as in a mighty trough but there having reached more level and less elevated country its course naturally deflects almost at right angles and makes a short cut for the ocean via the mighty Guayas.
The Chimbo is characteristic of all those rivers of western Ecuador which owe their origin as well as their perpetuity during the dry season to the snowand glacierfed springs of the great peaks of the Andean system which rise to an elevation of 15000 to 20000 feet above sea level.
The greater part of the lofty country drained by these rivers is extremely precipitous almost denuded of forest growth and trampled by cattle.
The soil is filled with boulders and pebbles and the rockand mudencumbered river channels are continually changing base with every sudden rise of the water.
Couple this with a continuous gradient of the river bed of 5 to 15 and even 20 per cent and one begins to understand why only one species of fish can exist in these waters at elevations of over 3000 feet.
Even below this there are very few species to be found in the main channel until the upper edge of the lowland terraces appears at about 1000 feet above the sea and even here the majority of the fish fauna 33 confines itself to the smaller creeks and rivulets of clear water which are fed by the perennial springs of the densely wooded foothills and jungles of the ' Tierra Caliente.'
Such conditions necessarily develop these tributary streams of the foothills into isolated fish faunas of the most restricted local character as it is practically impossible for the majority of those fish which thrive here in such great profusion to live in the turbid and rushing waters of the main river which under more pacific conditions would be a means of intercourse rather than a barrier.
For this reason we may expect to find the most varied and puzzling faunal conditions in the ichthyology of the west Andean foothills when systematic collections have been made.
As yet there is a vast area of this character in Colombia and Ecuador which has been almost untouched by the scientific collector of fishes.
All the fish described in this paper with one or two exceptions were dynamited by railroad men in the larger pools of clearwater streams flowing into the Chimbo River about 2 miles from Bucay.
These streams are for the most part deeply shaded by forests and enclosed by high and rocky banks their sandy or gravelly beds much strewn by boulders and in many places their quiet reaches are broken by shallow rapids as in our larger trout streams of the Alleghany Mountains.
Some of a larger species of Characid than any here described weighing about 2 to 2 pounds were secured with the others but considered by their captors too valuable as food to be pickled in the interests of science
The flesh of these was good but the bones too omnipresent for comfort.
CHARACID.
PROCHILODIN.E.
Prochilodus stigmaturus sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 3f depth 3i D. in 9 A. m 7 P. i 13 V. i 8 scales in 1.
1.
38 to caudal base and 3 more on latter 9 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 6 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 6 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 17 predorsal scales head width ly its length head depth at occiput If snout 3 eye 4f  maxillary 4f  mouth width 4 interorbital 2 second branched dorsal ray If first branched anal ray l T  least depth of caudal peduncle 2 T V lower caudal lobe If pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongate compressed contour fusiform and deepest at dorsal origin.
Upper profile convex bulging slightly more anteriorly though back not elevated conspicuously.
Lower profile rather more evenly convex.
Edges of body all evenly convex without keels.
Caudal peduncle compressed moderate length about  of least depth.
Head small compressed sides flattened and not constricted above or below though both of latter surfaces evenly convex.
Profiles 1911.
495 similar nearly straight.
Snout broad obtuse convex both over surface and in profile produced well beyond mandible tip and length about f of basal width.
Eye nearly circular but little elevated and centre well before middle in head length.
Eyelid narrow.
Mouth broad and commissure short in profile horizontal largely.
When opened mouth quite broad directed downwards and jaws rather firm and but moderately strong apparently not disklike.
Lips thin and scarcely developed edge of upper rather trenchant and lower rather broad.
Edge of each lip with a row of numerous minute papillae its whole extent and apparently all sessile.
No inner series in either jaw.
Mouth aperture small as seen in front with a medium notch in upper jaw into which symphysis Fig.
1.
 Prochilodus stigmaturus Fowler.
Type.
of mandible fits.
Also each ramus of mandible swollen a little on its upper edge this fitting in a corresponding concavity also in side of upper jaw.
Upper and lower buccal folds moderately broad in mouth.
Tongue small fleshy not free.
Mandible short and rami well elevated inside mouth articulated below hind nostril.
Nostrils moderate close together anterior circular and about midway in snout and posterior exposed in crescent close behind.
Interorbital space broadly convex.
Preorbital about 1 in eye.
Infraorbital narrow about equals eye.
Postorbital width If in eye.
Preorbital also a little swollen with cavity below into which maxillary fits when closed its hind edge then about opposite nasal frenum.
Opercle width about If its depth and smooth like other bones of head.
Cutaneous opercular flap moderately broad behind.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite hind edge of eye.
Rakers none.
Filaments of inner series a little longer than those in outer or about equal to f of eyediameter.
Isthmus broad.
Inner upper portion of gillopening with many small papilla.
Branchiostegals 4 strong graduated slightly from innermost to outermost all straight and rather long.
Scales large of more or less even size disposed in even longitudinal series parallel with 1.1. well exposed and each one with as many as a dozen rather irregular radiating striae in some cases usually less.
Margin of each scale entire evenly convex not rough.
Scales a little small on breast.
Caudal base with most of scales scarcely smaller than elsewhere on body other fins naked.
Head naked.
Pointed scaly flap in ventral axil 2 in fin.
Apparently no median predorsal keel though just traces of a faint one behind dorsal fin.
Though belly and chest rounded convexly a very faint ridge or keel extends from below lower pectoral base nearly to ventral axil.
Postventral and postanal regions entirely evenly convex.
L. 1. complete begins at shoulder and nearly follows median axis to median caudal base.
Tubes simple at first little exposed and after ninth extending at least halfway over scale exposures.
Dorsal origin a little nearer snout tip than caudal base fin moderate second branched ray longest and when depressed reaches If to adipose fin origin.
Anal smaller than dorsal margin of fin straight its origin a little nearer caudal base than ventral origin and depressed fin 1 to caudal base.
Adipose fin rather large length about equals snout its base over bases of last anal rays.
Caudal rather large rays broadly expanded fin deeply emarginated and lower lobe a little shorter.
Pectoral moderate upper rays longest and fin ly to ventral origin.
Latter about opposite first branched dorsal ray base second and third branched rays longest and fin If to anal origin.
Vent close in front of anal.
Color in alcohol when fresh largely pale slaty above sides and below silverywhite.
In some lights back with an olivaceous tint in others largely grayish.
Median line of back largely with dusky tinge.
Head dusky to olivaceous or grayish above sides with some brassy tinges and lower surface whitish.
Snout largely brownish even to edge of upper lip.
Mandible pale or whitish.
Iris silverywhite.
Dorsal slatydusky deeper towards edge of fin immaculate.
Caudal paler than dorsal but large blackish blotch on caudal peduncle side at terminal portion of lateral line continued back over median rays to their tips though paler.
Inner submarginal portions of caudal lobes very indistinctly mottled with pale gray spots or leaving incomplete short wavy lines of darker color somewhat transversely over these portions of finrays.
Adipose fin pale or dull olivebrown.
Pectoral and ventral pale brownish to whitish former with median upper portion a little grayish or darker.
Anal pale basally though greater outer or distal portion quite dusky.
Length 5J inches.
Type No.
1.
Collection S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
Only a single example of this species described above was obtained.
It differs from Prochilodus humeralis Giinther 1 chiefly in coloration that species being marked with a black shoulder spot on the fourth to sixth scales of the lateral line and the dorsal with blackish dots posteriorly though the other fins and base of the caudal are immaculate.
Other species from the eastern drainage of South America which I have examined are of course entirely different in coloration viz.
 P. steindachneri Fowler P. ortonianus Cope P. cephalotes Cope P. teraponura Fowler and P. amazonensis Fowler.
Zriyfia blotch oupa  tail with reference to the dark caudal blotch.
RHOADSIN.E.
Preventral region rounded without keel.
Dentition perfected.
Jaws peculiar well back and long mandible articulated below hind edge of eye.
Dorsal and anal rays elongated.
Adipose fin present.
I have framed this subfamily for the single aberrent genus described below.
It is remarkable for the constriction of the jaws somewhat suggestive of the salmonoid Plecoglossus.
Its affinities are likely near the Tetragonopterince.
EHOADSIA gen. nov.
Type Rhoadsia altipinna sp.
nov.
Body deep compressed.
Belly rounded.
Mouth cleft large deep.
Front jaw teeth in adult largely uniserial strong compressed each with large pointed median denticle and two graduated smaller denticles each side of which outer or lower smaller.
Sometimes three or four external short conic teeth on upper lip in adult absent in young.
In young anterior jaw teeth all broader with more uniform cuttingedge as denticles all more on a line and median denticle but slightly enlarged.
Adult with a single series of conic 1 Proc.
Z. S. London 1859 p. 419.
Western Andes of Ecuador.
maxillary and lateral mandibular teeth absent in young.
Maxillary long and slender in adult much shorter in young.
Mandible articulated well posteriorly or below hind eye edge in adult and in young articulated a little anterior.
Nostrils close together separated by valve only.
Gillopening wide membranes free from isthmus and largely separated.
Rakers lanceolate.
Scales all cycloid well exposed parallel with 1.
1. above and below though latter also oblique.
Anal with narrow scaly area basally and scales on caudal base not extending far out on fin.
L. 1. incomplete not extending beyond dorsal base.
Dorsal median base short and rays greatly elevated.
Anal begins after dorsal base its own base long and front rays elevated.
Caudal well forked.
Pectoral almost reaches ventral.
Ventral inserted before dorsal reaches anal.
A single species small fishes in the mountain streams of western Ecuador.
Named for Mr. Samuel N. Rhoads in slight recognition of his ability as a naturalist and explorer.
Rhoadsia altipinna sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Head 3f depth 2 D. n 9 A. iv 24 P. i 12 V. i 7 scales in 1.
1.
38 to caudal base of which 16 anteriorly with tubes 4 scales in horizontal series medianly on caudal base 9 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 11 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 21 scales in vertical series between anal origin and last dorsal ray base 22 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 2f  eye 4f  maxillary 1 mandible If interorbital 2f  dorsal base If least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  adipose fin length 3 fourth branched anal ray If pectoral If ventral 1.
Body deep well compressed form elongately ovoid and lower profile a little more evenly convex than upper.
Owing to slope down posteriorly of dorsal base upper profile appears a little more bulging anteriorly as compared with lower profile.
Greatest body depth at dorsal origin.
Predorsal region trenchant and postdorsal region narrowly convex.
Behind adipose fin just before and over anterior rudimentary caudal rays edge becomes trenchant.
Breast and preventral region narrowly constricted though with convex edge.
Postventral region narrowly constricted though scarcely trenchant.
Postanal region similar except edge becoming slightly trenchant over anterior rudimentary rays.
Caudal peduncle well compressed and its least depth about equals its length.
Head moderate well compressed flattened sides slightly approximated below and upper and lower surfaces evenly convex.
Profiles 1911.
499 similarly inclined but very slightly convex.
Snout moderately long protruding slightly below closed mandible tip length about  its basal width and surface evenly convex.
Eye slightly ellipsoid its centre level with snout tip and a little before middle in head length.
Pupil slightly ellipsoid in vertical.
Eyelid very narrow free not adiposelike.
Mouth peculiar large and commissure very deep extending back not quite opposite front pupil edge though beyond front eye margin.
Maxillary straight of rather narrow and uniform width well inclined back till its tip opposite hind eye Fig.
2.
 Rhoadsia altipinna Fowler.
Type.
edge and most its whole length free from the corresponding straight infraorbital edge.
Mandible long rami incised or emarginated in front giving a chisellike appearance.
Rami also attain their greatest height anteriorly or opposite a corresponding notch in front of maxillary after which they are continued back to their articulations of uniform height.
A single series of compressed sharp teeth form cutting edge in front of upper jaw consisting of 6 teeth each side.
Each tooth with a median and slightly enlarged pointed cusp followed by 2 smaller ones each side latter usually subequal.
Front or incised portion of mandible with a series of somewhat similar teeth about 5 each side all rather broader than upper teeth and contour of cuttingedge of each tooth less triangular.
A single series of large and erect conic canines along maxillary edge well down near its distal extremity and at first a little closer together.
Straight lateral mandibular edges with a single series of conic canines each side first few slope forward after which they all incine well back most are also well curved.
In both jaws the dentition is continuous anteriorly as the premaxillary and the maxillary and the anterior and posterior mandibular elements.
Lips firm upper with several short conic denticles and lower conceals lower lateral teeth.
Tongue thick fleshy rather narrow and not free.
Snout tip extends a little before mandible tip.
Nostrils moderate together and frenum about last third in snout.
Interorbital well convex.
Fontanel narrow extends back from opposite front eye edge to occipital crest.
Preorbital rim narrow its width about half of eye.
Greatest diameter of posteroinfraorbital width equals eye.
Postorbital width 1 T in eye.
Posterior edge of preopercle inclined a little behind straight and with a distinct and rather narrow triangular corner below.
Opercle narrow its width about 2 in its depth.
Preopercle surface posteroinfraorbital and opercle with some rather coarse and inconspicuous striae.
Cutaneous opercular flap moderately broad behind.
Gillopening extends forward opposite middle of eye.
Rakers 8  14 rather slender weak pointed and longest about half of filaments.
Latter about 1 in eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus rather broad.
Branchiostegals strong subequal 4 in number.
Scales moderately large cycloid well exposed and largely of uniform size.
Radiating striae on scales all fine and obsolete.
Edges of scales all entire convex.
Scales a little small on breast and anterior preventral region also on caudal base.
Along base of anal anteriorly row of low scales.
No axillary scaly pectoral flap and that of ventral about 5 in fin.
Scales above and below 1.
1. and its course in series parallel.
Below this axis and posteriorly they slope slightly obliquely to anal base.
Fins except as mentioned above together with head naked.
L. 1. incomplete extends but little beyond dorsal origin its short course nearly horizontal from shoulder.
Tubes simple exposed until some extend over first half of scale exposures.
Dorsal origin about midway in vertical between snout tip and caudal base almost all rays elongated with slender tips so depressed fin extends back to caudal base though anteromedian rays longest.
Adipose fin moderate inserted about midway between last dorsal ray base and caudal base fin 2 to latter.
Anal inserted opposite last dorsal ray base anterior rays elongated and second branched one longest it extending about  to caudal base.
Caudal deeply forked lobes rather slender pointed tips damaged and apparently equal fin also apparently a little longer than head length.
Pectoral rather small upper rays longest fin a little falcate not quite reaching ventral.
Ventral origin slightly before dorsal fin pointed depressible back a little beyond anal origin.
Vent midway between ventral and anal origins.
Color when fresh in alcohol largely pale umberbrown on back and upper surface edges of scales darker.
Median dorsal line also somewhat dusky.
Sides and lower surface of body pale to whitish and all more or less overshot with dull silvery pale lilac in some lights.
Upper surface of head brownish like back sides and lower surface pale.
Opercle with silverywhite reflections and a dull indigoblack blotch level with eye on its upper portion.
Snout entirely brownish to edge of upper lip and mandible decidedly paler like whole of lower jaw.
Iris silverywhite with grayish tinge above.
Transversely on back 2 broad deeper brown bands than bodycolor first a little narrower and at first third in predorsal region second at second third of same.
An indistinct or nebulous pale brown blotch at beginning of 1.
1. followed by an indistinct pale gilt area to another indistinct brownish blotch within limits of second dark transverse band.
Behind 1.
1. though on same level opposite anal origin a distinct large rounded spot of dusky or blackish this a little larger than eye.
Along sides following median axis a streak of underlaid and rather dull silvery though posteriorly becoming quite narrowed or about f of eyediameter.
Dorsal pale or grayish basally becoming rather dusky on outer portions.
Adipose fin pale grayish edge narrowly dusky.
Anal largely pale grayish a little darker marginally and only front edge of long anterior lobe slightly dusky.
Caudal largely grayish like other fins hind edges a trifle dusky.
Pectoral pale brownish distally a little darker brown.
Ventral grayish basally distal end of longest rays dusky slatecolor.
Peritoneum blackish.
Length 5 inches caudal tips damaged.
Type No.
2.
Collection S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
Also Nos.
3 to 6 paratypes same data.
Head 3 to 3 depth 2f to 2 D. in 9 A. usually iv 27 sometimes iv 25 or iv 28 scales in median lateral series 38 to caudal base and 4 more on latter sometimes  10 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 8 or 9 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin usually 20 scales sometimes 19 between anal origin and last dorsal ray base usually 20 predorsal scales sometimes 21 usually 17 1.
1. tubes sometimes 15 or 16 snout 2f to 3 in head eye 2f to4f maxillary If to 2 interorbital 2f to 3 pectoral 1 to If ventral If to li length 2f to 4f inches.
Variation with age as well as individually is quite noticeable.
In the type the right upper teeth forming the cutting edge are all more or less conic and with only obsolete cusps.
The other examples have them symmetrically developed and in the young examples all the cusps are all more on a uniform plane or line in both jaws.
Small examples also have no external conic denticles on the upper lip.
The smallest paratype also has no maxillary or lateral mandibular teeth only the cuspidate anterior teeth being developed and all the simple conic teeth apparently only appearing with age.
The young also have a large eye a much shorter maxillary which only reaches back about opposite front edge of pupil the articulation of the mandible before the hind pupil edge predorsal scales much smaller than the others the depressed dorsal fin not reaching adipose fin origin and without traces of the dark predorsal bands.
With advancing age a few conic teeth appear on the maxillary and lateral elevated portions of the mandibular rami though only in the large examples is this bone elongated and well toothed.
The accompanying figure has the tail ends represented as restored and the cut illustrating the dentition shows the left upper teeth as symmetrical.
Altus high piina fin with reference to the elevated dorsal of the adult.
TETRAGONOPTERIN.
Brycon scapularis sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 3f  depth 3 D. m 9 A. iv 25 i P. i 12 V. i 7 scales in 1.
1.
51 to caudal base and 4 more on latter 10 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 5 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 6 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 22 predorsal scales head width 2f in its length head depth at occiput If snout 4 eye 3f  maxillary 2 nterorbital 3f mandible 2f  first branched dorsal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 3J first branched anal ray 2f  pectoral If ventral If.
Body well compressed contour rather evenly ellipsoid greatest depth at dorsal origin edges all convexly rounded or with only 1911.
503 slight median pre ventral ridge or keel.
Postventral region rather constricted.
Caudal peduncle well compressed its least depth about 1 its length.
Head well compressed flattened sides slightly constricted below upper and lower surfaces rather evenly convex profiles similarly inclined and slightly convex anteriorly.
Snout a little convex in profile surface well convex length about f its basal width.
Eye a trifle ellipsoid rather high its centre about first third in head.
Eyelid narrow and thin.
Pupil vertically ellipsoid.
Maxillary well inclined extends till below front pupil edge and distally expanded till about 3 in eye.
Jaws strong firm equal.
Upper lip tough firm moderate.
Lower lip thick free in front and rather fleshy.
Fig.
3.
 Brycon scapidaris Fowler.
Type.
Mouth moderate commissure rather short horizontal.
Premaxillary teeth triserial mostly with an enlarged median denticle and a rather obtuse small denticle or cusp each side basally former much in contrast with latter.
Posterior premaxillary teeth similar only broader and a little larger.
All premaxillary teeth rather thick with entire edges surfaces convex strong and firm.
Maxillary with a series of rather small closeset conic short teeth over about first or upper  of its lower edge these also all more or less concealed by membrane over bone.
Mandibular teeth uniserial first 3 each side of symphysis enlarged largest of all teeth and laterally on each mandibular ramus those following quickly decreasing in size and some becoming minute so that dentition does not extend more than first f of mandible length.
Mandibular teeth strong thickrooted surfaces convex edges entire each with an enlarged median cusp and one or two smaller basal cusps on each side all of which sharp and triangular.
Two small conic canines close inside outer symphyseal teeth.
No other teeth in mouth.
Buccal membranes well developed upper especially broad.
Tongue thick fleshy rather depressed above and scarcely free in front.
Mandible strong and rami little elevated in mouth.
Nostrils rather large close together anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent close before upper front eye edge or about last fourth in snout.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Preorbital quite narrow and maxillary slipping below its lower edge.
Anteroinfraorbital broadly triangular small.
Posteroinfraorbital large its length equals snout and half of eye.
Postorbital small its width If in eye.
Opercle width 2 its depth.
Preopercular edge nearly vertical but slightly inclined behind and its lower corner rounded.
Bones of head all smooth without striae.
Cutaneous edge of gillopening moderately broad.
Gillopening extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge.
Rakers about 9  13 lanceolate slender pointed a little less than longest filaments.
Filaments about 1 in eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus narrow surface rather rounded and membranes form slight free fold anteriorly for short space.
Branchiostegals 4 strong and subequal.
Scales cycloid all rather more or less narrowly imbricated disposed in series parallel with 1.1. and becoming but a trifle smaller along edges of body and breast.
Many as 6 radiating strire visible on scale exposure and usually well marked.
Caudal base covered with scales but little smaller than those on rest of body.
Slight pit formed by membrane above in pectoral axilla.
Axillary ventral scaly flap pointed slender free about 3 in fin.
Anal base with low sheath of thin small scales.
Scales passing over all body edges.
L. 1. complete begins sloping down from shoulder in even curve till about opposite ventral origin where near lowest third in body depth and then gradually slopes up low along caudal peduncle side at first to middle of caudal base.
Tubes all simple short and but little exposed.
Dorsal origin about midway between hind nostril and caudal base first branched and third simple ray longest and subequal depressed back far as tips of any others fin If to adipose fin origin.
Adipose fin moderate If in eye origin about midway between depressed dorsal tip and caudal base fin 2 to latter.
Caudal damaged well forked lobes apparently pointed and slender also likely equal  and fin about equal to head in length .
Anal origin about opposite last dorsal ray base first branched ray longest though second and third branched and fourth simple subequal with anterior rays of fins thus much longer than others and last fin ray about half way to caudal base.
Pectoral long rather slender upper rays longest and fin extends a little beyond ventral origin.
Latter inserted before dorsal though nearer anal origin than pectoral and depressed fin reaching anal origin.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol largely brownish or dull olivaceous with lilac tinge on back sides and lower surface brilliant silverywhite.
In some lights body more or less reflected greenish or lilac.
Head above olivaceousbrown color including upper lip and upper portion of maxillary sides and lower surface silverywhite mandible pale.
Iris silvergray varied with narrow golden circle around pupil.
Inside gillopenings pale.
A short narrow and rather dull vertical leaden streak opposite eye after and superior to third scale in 1.
1.
Caudal peduncle at caudal base with a large dusky blotch equal to the eye in extent extending out on caudal base and reflected back to include median caudal rays as a dusky streak though latter a little paler than blotch.
Dorsal grayish membranes medianly tinged with dusky.
Caudal grayish edges of fin all slightly dusky.
Other fins pale or whitish membranes of anal grayish distally.
Peritoneum rather dusky.
Length 3f 5 6 inches caudal tips damaged.
Type No.
7.
Collection of S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
In the accompanying figure I have restored the caudal fin ends.
This species differs from Brycon atrocaudatus Kner 2 in the dark humeral blotch.
If as Boulenger suggests 3 B. moorei Steindachner 4 is identical with B. atrocaudatus Kner B. scapularis further differs in the absence of an inner lateral mandibular series of simple or conic teeth.
Steindachner says of B. moorei that the dark 2 Chalceus atrocaudatus Kner Sitz.
Ak.
Munch. II 1863 p. 227.
Western Andes of Ecuador.
Kner and Steindachner Abh.
Kon.
Bayer.
Ak.
Wiss. X 1S70 p. 44 PI.
4 fig.
3 type.
3 Brycon alricaudatus Boulenger Boll.
Mus.
Z. Anat.
Torino XIII No.
329 1898 p. 3.
Paramba in Rio Mira.
4 Denks.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien XXXIX 1879 p. 58 PI.
5 figs.
2 2a 26.
Magdalena River.
506 Sept. humeral blotch is indistinct.
B. scapularis differs also from all the species mentioned in its vertically ellipsoid pupil.
Scapula shoulder referring to the shoulderspot.
Astyanax notemigonoides sp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 4 depth 2f  D. in 9 A. iv 37 i P. i 13 V. i 7 scales 45 in 1.
1. to caudal base and about 4 
more on latter squamation slightly injured 9 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 7 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 8 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 17 predorsal scales head width 2 in its length head depth at occiput 1 T V mandible 2f  first branched dorsal ray 1 first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral lyV ventral If snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 3 maxillary 2f  interorbital 3 T V Fig.
4.
 Astyanax notemigonoides Fowler.
Type.
Body well compressed lower profile deeper and more evenly convex than upper greatest depth at dorsal origin.
Predorsal region slightly trenchant with obsolete median keel.
Postdorsal region convexly rounded.
Preventral region with slight median keel becomes obsolete and region flattened immediately before ventral bases.
Postventral slightly trenchant with median keel.
Postanal region convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle short well compressed length about  least depth.
Head moderate well compressed flattened sides becoming a little constricted below upper and lower surfaces convex upper profile much less inclined than lower at first convex and then a little concave just before occiput.
Lower profile slightly convex.
Snout short convex over surface and in profile its length about f basal width.
Eye large circular rather high its centre about first f in head.
Pupil circular.
Eyelid very narrow thin.
Mouth small moderately wide and commissure short and nearly horizontal.
Upper lip firm tough not free.
Lower lip thick free and rather broad.
Premaxillary teeth biserial rather irregular strong broadly triangular somewhat compressed with each face convex tricuspid with median cusp enlarged and lateral cusp each side basally quite broad.
Maxillary with 3 minute teeth on its lower edge anteriorly inside upper jaw.
Mandibular teeth with symphyseal pair largest others graduated back soon so that dentition only extends over anterior half of mandible.
Anterior mandibular teeth tricuspid median cusp much largest bases strong surfaces convex and edges entire.
Only first 4 mandibular teeth each side at all large.
No other teeth in mouth.
Buccal folds broad especially upper.
Tongue thick fleshy rather oblong rounded and not free in front.
Maxillary rather small narrow or width about 4 in eye inclined vertically and scarcely extends beyond eye front.
Mandible strong powerful protrudes in front slightly beyond upper jaw tip rami but little elevated in mouth and articulation taking place below front edge of eye.
Nostrils together close before upper front eye edge anterior simple round pore and posterior exposed in crescent.
Interorbital space evenly convex.
Preorbital narrow width about equals maxillary width and maxillary slips below lower edge anteriorly.
Infraorbital quite large length greater than eye and covering most of cheek.
Postorbital rather narrow width about 2 in eye.
Opercle narrow width 2 in its depth.
Hind preopercle edge nearly straight and sloping a little forward.
Cutaneous flap along opercular edge rather broad.
Gillopening forward well before front pupil edge though not quite opposite front edge of eye.
Rakers about 10  13 rather weak lanceolate sharppointed and longest about 1 in filaments.
Filaments about 2 in eye.
No pseudobranchiae.
Gillmembranes well separated forming a short free fold over narrowly constricted isthmus anteriorly.
Branchiostegals 4 strong and nearly subequal.
Scales moderate rather narrowly imbricated disposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. sometimes each with as many as 12 radiating strise and mostly of more or less uniform size.
Along edges of body and on base of caudal scales a little smaller than others.
A narrow area of small scales all along anal base though best developed anteriorly.
In other respects all fins together with head naked.
Squamation passing completely over all edges of body.
No axillary pectoral scaly flap though that of ventral pointed narrow free and about 2f in fin.
L. 1. complete moderately decurved till a little below median axis of body and then continued up a little low along sides of caudal peduncle to median caudal base.
Tubes simple at first little exposed and at most not extending more than halfway in exposures of scales.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base first branched ray longest second branched and third simple rays subequal and depressed fin a trifle over half way to caudal base.
Adipose dorsal origin a trifle behind last third in space between dorsal origin and caudal base fin nearly half way to latter.
Anal base long straight origin about opposite seventh dorsal ray base first branched ray longest with fourth simple and second branched rays subequal so that slight elevated lobe forms anteriorly.
Caudal well forked lobes slender pointed and lower much longer upper a little damaged or about equals head length with f of eyediameter.
Pectoral long upper rays longest fin reaches trifle beyond ventral origin.
Latter inserted a little before dorsal origin though a little nearer anal origin than that of pectoral and depressed fin reaching anal origin.
Vent about last fifth in space between ventral and anal origins.
Color when fresh in alcohol largely pale olivaceousbrown on back with sides becoming pale or whitish also below and whole overshot with bright silverywhite.
A broad silverywhite band extends from eye to caudal base width about equal to eyediameter this conspicuously contrasting coloration of back with that of lower regions.
No dark humeral blotch.
At base of caudal and on contiguous region of caudal peduncle dusky blotch this extending out on median caudal rays to edge of fin though area on latter paler and variegated with deeper marblings.
Head brownisholive above color including all of upper lip also lower lip.
Head sides and below also iris bright silverwhite.
Dorsal grayish basally becoming pale olivaceous distally.
Anal similar only largely tinged with pale dusky on outer portions.
Caudal grayish basally edges of fin slightly deeper.
Pectoral and ventral pale grayish distally slightly deeper in color.
Peritoneum dusky to blackish.
Length 3 inches.
Type No.
8.
Collection of S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
Also Nos.
9 to 16 paratypes same data.
Head 3f to 4 depth 2f to 3f  D. in 9 A. usually iv 35 frequently iv 32 or iv 37 sometimes iv 39 scales in 1.
1. usually 44 to 46 sometimes 43 or 47  3 or 4 more on caudal base usually 9 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin seldom 8 7 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin usually 9 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin seldom 8 or 10 predorsal scales 18 to 20 usually sometimes 17 or 21  snout 4 to 4  in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2 to 3 maxillary 2f to 3 mandible 2 to 2 interorbital 3 to 3 pectoral 1 T V to 1 ventral If to If length 2 T 7 T to 3f inches.
Young examples do not differ much from the adults in appearance showing the same general coloration though perhaps more silverywhite.
They are also more elongate or slender with a larger eye and with very minute or obsolete maxillary teeth.
This species appears to be related to Astyanax festce Boulenger 5 but differs in several respects.
A. festce has Head 4 to 4 depth 2 to 3 eye twice length of snout or 2 to 2f in head maxillary toothless pectoral longer than head and 2 blackish spots at front of 1.
1.
NaTos  back ytu  half yiovia angle edo  appearance with reference to the superficial resemblance to Notemigonus the roach or bream of the eastern United States.
Astyanax scierus sp.
nov.
Fig.
5.
Head 3f depth 2f D. in 9 A. v 29 i P. i 11 V. i 7 scales 37 in 1.
1. to caudal base and 4 
more on latter 8 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin 6 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin 8 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin 15 predorsal scales head width l T 9 o its length head depth at occiput 1 T V snout 3f  eye 3f mandible 2f maxillary 2f interorbital 2f first branched dorsal ray If first branched anal ray 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f lower caudal lobe 1 pectoral H ventral 2 T V Body elongately ovoid well compressed greatest depth at dorsal origin and profiles nearly alike.
Predorsal edge rounded convexly also postdorsal.
Preventral and postanal regions convex postventral trenchant though without distinct keel.
Caudal peduncle well compressed about long as least depth.
Head moderate well compressed nearly flattened sides very slightly constricted below upper and lower surfaces convex profiles 6 Tetragonopterus festce Boulenger Boll.
Mus.
Z. Anal.
Corny.
Torino XIII No.
329 189S p. 2.
Rio Vinces Ecuador.
34 510 Sept. similarly inclined and both a little convex.
Snout short convex over surface and in profile length about f its basal width.
Eye circular a little elevated and its centre about first  in head.
Eyelids narrow thin.
Pupil circular.
Maxillary vertically inclined narrow with greatest expansion about 3 in eye extends back a little behind front eye edge though not to front pupil edge.
Upper lip firm tough lower thick fleshy and free in front.
Mouth rather small short commissure nearly horizontal and powerful jaws with lower not protruding when closed.
Premaxillary teeth biserial anterior a little smaller and tricuspid and posterior quincuspid and broad.
All premaxillary teeth with convex surfaces median Fig.
5.
 Astyanax scierus Fowler.
Type.
cusp much largest and edges of all denticles entire.
Two small teeth on lower edge of each maxillary inside mouth.
Mandibular teeth uniserial symphyseal pair enlarged quincuspid others of which 3 follow graduated slightly back on each ramus similar.
Mandibular dentition extends about half way on each ramus.
No other teeth.
Upper and lower buccal folds broad especially former.
Tongue a little long depressed rounded and not free in front.
Mandible strong convex over surface and rami moderately elevated inside mouth.
Nostrils together close before upper front edge of eye anterior simple pore and posterior exposed in crescent.
Interorbital evenly convex.
Preorbital narrow similar to maxillary and latter mostly slipping below its lower edge.
Infraorbital covering most of cheek larger than eye.
Postorbital small its width about 2 in eye.
Opercle width about 2f in its depth.
Hind preopercle edge nearly straight inclined slightly posteriorly.
Occipital fontanel rather broad.
Head bones all smooth.
Opercle membrane over gillopening rather broad.
Gillopening forward about opposite front eye edge.
Rakers 8  9 lanceolate compressed pointed longest about f of filaments.
Latter If in eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Gillmembranes largely separate only forming short fold anteriorly over narrow and rather convex isthmus.
Branchiostegals 4 strong subequal.
Scales moderate well exposed in longitudinal series parallel with 1.
1. sometimes with many as 18 radiating striae edges entire and convex.
Scales mostly a trifle smaller along edges of body especially supraanal region.
Caudal base scaly though scales a little smaller than on body.
Base of anal with a row of moderately small scales.
Other fins together with head naked.
No scaly axillary pectoral flap though that of ventral free elongate pointed and about f length of fin.
Scales passing completely over all body edges except apparently postanal region though on latter no median naked strip.
L. 1. complete decurved a little below median axis of body and extending a little low along caudal peduncle side up to median caudal base.
Tubes simple at first little exposed but gradually extend till nearly over first half of scale exposures.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and caudal base first branched ray longest with second branched and third simple rays subequal these all reaching about far back as tips of last rays and depressed fin nearly half way to caudal base.
Adipose fin inserted trifle nearer depressed dorsal tip than caudal base fin half way to latter.
Anal inserted below sixth branched dorsal ray base first branched ray longest with second branched and fourth simple rays subequal thus forming slightly elevated anterior lobe.
Caudal well forked lobes pointed and lower slightly damaged evidently a little longer.
Pectoral with upper rays longest reaches trifle beyond ventral origin.
Latter inserted well before dorsal or a trifle nearer anal than pectoral origin and fin If to anal.
Vent about last fourth in space between ventral and anal origins.
Color when fresh in alcohol rather dark olivaceousbrown above paler to dull whitish below.
All upper surface of body with dark or swarthy appearance being dusted with minute dusky or blackish dots broadly over edges of scales this also extending well down over sides or till opposite bases of pectorals.
Almost all of body overshot with dull silvery reflections.
Head dark olivaceousbrown like back this color including all of upper lip and snout.
Maxillary and mandible rather grayish.
Sides of head and below whitish former silvery and opercle with some golden reflections.
Almost all of side of head with minute brownish dots which a little enlarged and quite distinct on postorbital.
Iris grayishdusky with silvery reflections.
On side of body a broad underlaid plumbeous streak ill defined and less in width than eyediameter extends from shoulder to caudal base.
In third to fifth scales of its course a nebulous dusky blotch a little less than eye and followed by a similar one at eighth and ninth scales.
At end of plumbeous band a large dusky to blackish blotch and this reflected out on median caudal rays to their tips.
Dorsal dark gray.
Caudal lobes grayish basally becoming brownish distally.
Paired fins and anal grayish latter with membranes dull dusky on outer portions.
Pectoral and ventral also slightly darker on outer portions.
Adipose fin brownish.
Inside gillopening with some minute dusky dots otherwise pale.
Peritoneum silvery below.
Length 3 inches.
Type No.
17.
Collection of S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
Also Nos.
18 to 30 paratypes same data.
Head 3f to 3  depth 2f to 3 D. in 9 A. usually iv 27 i frequently iv 25 i iv 26 i iv 28 i or iv 29 i scales in 1.
1. usually 35 frequently 36 or 37 sometimes 38 seldom 34  usually 4 sometimes 3 usually 7 scales above 1.
1. to dorsal origin frequently 8 6 scales below 1.
1. to ventral origin usually 7 scales below 1.
1. to anal origin frequently 8 seldom 6 usually 15 predorsal scales often 16 or 17 snout 3f to 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 2f to 3 maxillary 2 to 2f  mandible 2 to 2f  interorbital 2 to 3 pectoral If to lj ventral If to 2 length If to 3 inches.
Small examples are usually more elongate paler or more silvery and have the mandible slightly protruding.
They show the maxillary teeth however.
This species appears related to Astyanax simus Boulenger 6 a species originally confused with A. mexicanus Philippi as Tetragonopterus petenensis by Gimther.
It differs in the size of head and depth of the body.
Boulenger gives the former as 3f to 4 and the latter as 3 to 3.
If this refers to the total length my examples 6 Tetragonopterus simus Boulenger Boll.
Mus.
Z. Anal.
Comp.
Torino XIII No.
329 1898 p. 2.
Valley of Chota north of Ecuador.
1911.
513 show the head 4 to 4 and the depth as 3 to 3.
Further A. simus is said to be without a humeral blotch while A. scierus has two.
A. simus is about 3yinches in length.
In any case the account of A. simus is not in agreement with my material representing the present species.
Ixcep6 t dusky.
PIABUCININ.E.
Piabucina aureoguttata sp.
nov.
Fig.
6.
Head 4 depth 4 D. n 8 A. in 8 i P. i 14 V. i 7 25 scales in a lateral series from shoulder to caudal base and 4 more on latter 8 scales between dorsal and ventral origins transversely 14 predorsal scales head width If its length head depth at occiput 1 mandible 2y first branched dorsal ray 2 first branched anal ray 2 T V least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  upper caudal lobe 1 T V  pectoral If ventral 2 snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw tip eye 6 maxillary 2f  interorbital 2f.
Fig.
6.
 Piabucina aureoguttata Fowler.
Type.
Body elongate compressed rather heavy forward profiles similar so contour rather fusiform greatest depth about ventral origin and edges all broadly convex.
Caudal peduncle well compressed least depth about If its length.
Head moderate profiles slightly convex surfaces convex above and below broad and sides slightly convex.
Snout convex over surface and in profile broad short length about If its basal width.
Eye small rounded but little elevated and in profile centre about first third in head.
Eyelid free narrow.
Pupil large circular.
Maxillary nearly vertical extends back about opposite front pupil margin its upper edge slips well below preorbital bone notched above and greatest distal width about j of eye.
Upper lip thin tough tight.
Lower lip similar only a little more fleshy on each side of mandible.
Teeth in jaws rather small strong tricuspid slightly compressed with median cusp greatly enlarged and pointed edges of teeth otherwise entire and all uniserial.
At base of each maxillary a series of 4 small teeth continuous with others in upper jaw and otherwise similar.
No other teeth.
Upper and lower buccal folds rather broad well developed.
Tongue broad fleshy depressed front edge free and convex as seen from above surface finely papillose.
Mandible strong rami low surface convex and anteriorly well protruding in front beyond snout tip.
Nostrils together anterior in a short cutaneous tube forming behind into a rather broad flap and posterior a beanshaped aperture close behind.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Broad suborbital chain completely covering cheek.
Preorbital narrowest of suborbital chain and narrowest portion about half of eye.
Posteroinfraorbital largest its length about twice eyediameter.
Lower postorbital larger than upper.
Hind preopercle edge nearly straight and inclined a little behind.
Opercle width about If its length.
Hind cutaneous edge of gillopening broad.
Gillopening forward about opposite hind pupil edge.
Rakers 8  12 rather slender elongate lanceolate tips pointed about  of filaments.
Latter 1 in eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus broadly convex membranes forming narrow free fold anteriorly.
Branchiostegals 4 subequal strong.
Scales large firm well exposed free edges convex cycloid with about 10 more or less reticulated radiating striae over exposures and all distributed in nearly even longitudinal series.
Scales along edges of body but little smaller than others.
Body scales extend out on anal base where not much smaller than others and form a sheath into which anal fin depresses.
Caudal largely scaly basally scales at base but little smaller than others on side of body though becoming quite small out on lobes of fin subbasally.
Pectoral with rather deep axillary depression.
Ventral axilla with short and free pointed scaly flap a little less than 3 in fin.
Fins otherwise and head naked.
L. 1. evident only as first 3 tubes in course from shoulder.
Tubes simple small and extend over first third in scale exposures.
Dorsal origin about midway between caudal base and hind eye edge first and second branched rays subequal and longest depressed fin half way to adipose fin origin.
Adipose fin small inserted a little before last fourth in space between dorsal origin and caudal base fin less than half way to latter.
Anal inserted behind depressed dorsal tip first to third branched rays subequally longest fin If to caudal base lower edge rounded.
Caudal broad slightly emarginated upper lobe a little longer than lower.
Pectoral broad rounded ly 7 to ventral and upper rays longest.
Ventral inserted a little before dorsal origin fin If to anal origin.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol rich umberbrown on back becoming paler on sides below and lower regions where largely whitish.
From occiput along each side of back to end of upper surface of caudal peduncle a broad dusky to blackish band this well separated from an inferior lower similar band.
This latter narrow rather illdefined extends back from eye across opercle along middle of side and becomes more or less obsolete after anal.
It seems to be obscurely broken up into a number of blackish blotches of which one above anal base and another below adipose fin most distinct.
A narrow duskyblack vertical bar at caudal base.
Almost all of scales along side below with a gilt or golden blotch at inner basal region and these fading out after being in alcohol some time.
Head brownish above sides paler with lower surface whitish.
Lips both deep brown maxillary but little paler.
Tongue largely pale front edge dusky.
Inside gillopening pale.
Iris brownish.
Dorsal grayish.
Caudal pale olivaceousbrown.
Other fins all pale or whitish.
Peritoneum silverywhite.
Length 6 T  inches.
Type No.
31.
Collection S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
This species differs from Piabucina astrigata Regan and in fact all the others in the genus by its coloration.
Aureus golden gutta spot with reference to the coloration.
CICHLID.
iEquidens azurifer sp.
nov.
Fig.
7.
Head 2f depth 2f D. XIV 11 A.
Ill 9 i P. i 13 V. I 5 scales 16 in upper branch of 1.
1. 9 in lower branch 4 scales between spinous dorsal origin and 1.
1. 2 scales between rayed dorsal origin and 1.
1. 6 scales obliquely back from anal origin to beginning of lower branch of 1.
1. 9 predorsal scales head width If its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 2f  eye 5 maxillary 3yo interorbital 2 mandible 2  fourth dorsal spine 3 
 tenth dorsal spine 3 fourteenth dorsal spine 2f  sixth branched dorsal ray If third 516 Sept. anal spine 2f fifth branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2 caudal 1 T V pectoral 1 T V ventral .
Body oblong well compressed deep rather robust back well elevated with upper profile bulging somewhat anteriorly lower profile rather evenly and shallowly convex and greatest depth about opposite depressed ventral spine tip.
Body edges all rounded convexly.
Caudal peduncle well compressed length about f in least depth.
Head large compressed upper profile steeply inclined slightly concave before eye and lower profile little inclined.
Sides of head slightly convex becoming a little more approximated above than Fig.
7.
 Mquidens azurifer Fowler.
Type.
below.
Snout large profile slightly convex surface well convex and basal width at front of eyes equals its length.
Eye circular rather well elevated close to front profile and a little anterior in head length.
Eyelid free narrow.
Pupil circular.
Mouth wide small commissure slightly inclined.
Muzzle rather prominent somewhat protruding and jaws equal.
Premaxillary quite protractile.
Maxillary narrow extends about half way in snout length and concealed by preorbital.
Lips thick fleshy tough not free at corners of mouth somewhat conspicuous.
An outer series of enlarged conic teeth in each jaw followed by a broad inner band of villiform teeth.
Apparently no other teeth.
Upper and lower buccal folds present upper well developed.
Tongue thick fleshy end thickened conic tip not free.
Mandible shallow rami low and surface convex.
Nostrils small anterior larger a trifle nearer eye than upper jaw end and posterior inconspicuous opposite front eye edge medianly.
Interorbital convex.
Hind preopercle edge straight nearly vertical or but slightly inclined forward.
Membrane along hind edge of gillopening narrow.
Gillopening extends forward about midway in head.
Rakers 3  8 short weak rather fleshy and rather conic about 3 in filaments.
Latter lj in eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Isthmus broadly convex membrane forming rather broad free fold across.
Branchiostegals 5 rather long narrow.
Scales rather large well exposed finely ctenoid in longitudinal series and a little smaller on breast than elsewhere on trunk.
Fins scaleless except caudal base and that covered with numerous small scales.
Head largely naked except 3 series of scales on cheek 3 rows on opercular region and occipital region.
No pointed axillary scaly flaps.
On mandible below 4 pores on each ramus and alongeach preopercular edge 4 more large pores.
L. 1. interrupted below front of soft dorsal begins at shoulder and curves up till a little above eye after which nearly straight.
Lower portion of 1.
1. begins opposite end of upper well below eye straight or horizontal and extends out on caudal base.
Tubes simple well exposed in some cases nearly or quite to edges of scales.
Spinous dorsal inserted nearer snout tip in vertical than rayed dorsal origin spines graduated up to fourth after which subequal to tenth and then last graduated still a trifle longer.
Edge of spinous dorsal deeply notched tip of each spine with a welldeveloped cutaneous flap.
Rayed dorsal with posteromedian rays longest forming an elongated point to fin begins before end of upper 1.
1. or beginning of lower 1.
1. and edge entire.
Anal with spinous origin about opposite twelfth dorsal spine base spines graduated up to last which longest membranes notched and tip of each spine with a welldeveloped free cutaneous flap.
Rayed anal like rayed dorsal and origin of fin about opposite that of rayed dorsal with posteromedian rays longest and edge entire.
Caudal with hind margin convex median rays longest.
Pectoral large long fin reaches opposite second anal spine base superior rays longestVentral origin a little behind that of pectoral fin pointed reaches anal origin spine strong and about 2 in fin.
Vent close before anal.. Color in alcohol largely olivaceousbrown on back becoming paler below and on sides.
On lower surface color pale graybrown much paler on lower surface of head and on breast about gillopening.
Along each series of scales on back at upper and lower junctions of scales longitudinal or horizontal dark lines.
These latter at first dusky or deep slatybrown but as they follow below upper 1.
1. become pale blue so that over greater or lower half of trunk they have this tint.
Along middle of side opposite hind end of depressed pectoral just below and partly on upper 1.
1. a large slatyblack blotch but it also perforated by regular slaty longitudinal streaks giving an underlaid appearance.
This dark slatyblack blotch formed only as broad dark edges to scales involved and even olivaceous streaks also showing in the interstices.
Along costal region and that above spinous anal pale blue streaks become connected at bases of scales and thus expose olivaceous groundcolor as rounded spots one on each scale.
These pale blue streaks extend completely along caudal peduncle side to base of caudal.
Head olivaceousbrown above like back becoming paler below.
Lips brownish cheek and opercular region with pale gray spot.
Two deep blue narrow lines extend down from lower edge of eye to lower preorbital edge and an upper parallel and similar extends towards snout tip till just below front nostril.
Iris slaty.
Inside gillopening pale.
Spinous dorsal and rayed dorsal dull olivedusky with indistinctly defined oblique streaks more or less longitudinally also somewhat reticulated in places with grayish.
Upper edge of rayed dorsal narrowly and cutaneous tips to dorsal spines dull ochraceous.
Caudal dull olivaceousbrown clouded indistinctly with dusky as several irregular darker transverse streaks.
Edge of caudal behind narrowly dull ochraceous.
Anal dull olivaceous with grayish tinge basally and dull dusky distally edge becoming narrowly slaty.
Bases of rayed vertical fins together with bases of last dorsal and anal spines with dull or pale bluish tinge.
A short vertical dusky or slaty bar at caudal base.
Pectoral and ventral pale brownishgray both pale basally former more brownish distally and latter becoming dusky distally along first and second branched rays.
Length 5 inches.
Type No.
32.
Collection S. N. Rhoads.
Affluent of the Chimbo River near Bucay Province of Guayas Ecuador.
July 1911.
Also Nos.
33 to 35 paratypes same data.
Head 2 to 2 T 9   depth 2f to 2f  D. usually XIV spines sometimes XIII rays usually 11 sometimes 10 A. spines III rays usually 9 sometimes 8 scales in upper branch of 1.
1. usually 16 sometimes 17 scales in lower branch of 1 1.
7 to 10 to caudal base and 2 more on latter with tubes 4 scales above upper branch of 1.
1. to spinous dorsal origin 5 scales below lower branch of 1.
1. to spinous anal origin usually 9 predorsal scales sometimes 8 left gillrakers 2  usually 9 sometimes 10 right gillrakers usually 2 sometimes 3  usually 9 sometimes 10 snout 2 to 3 in head eye 3fto 4 maxillary 3f to 4 interorbital 2 to 3  length 2h to 4f inches.
Some variation is noticed in these examples but mostly in the smallest.
Though it also has the coloration with the six broad dark transverse bands distinct these are not very evident in the type.
In all the fourth to tenth dorsal spines are more or less equal and not regularly graduated from the anterior to the last.
This species is close to Mquidens rivulatus Glinther but differs in several respects when examples of similar size are compared.
According to Regan 7 M. rivulatus has the head 3  eye 3 to 4 interorbital 3 to 3 7 or 8 rakers on lower part of gillarch dorsal spines increasing in length to last longest dorsal rays extend back to middle or beyond in caudal length caudal peduncle long or nearly long as deep a blackish vertical stripe below eye 3 blue lines from eye to maxillary etc.
Azureus blue few to bear with reference to the pale bluish in the coloration.
Faunal Works.
Gunther Albert.
1859.
List of the Coldblooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser in the Andes of Western Ecuador.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1859 pp.
8993.
Second List of Coldblooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser in the Andes of Western Ecuador.
L. c pp.
402420 pisces 418420.
  1860.
Third List of Coldblooded Vertebrata collected by Mr. Fraser in Ecuador.
L. c 1860 pp.
233240 PL 10.
Cope E. D. 1870.
Contribution to the Ichthyology of the Marafion.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XI 1870 pp.
559570 with 9 cuts.
1872.
On the Fishes of the Ambyiacu River.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 1872 pp.
250292 Pis.
316.
Gill T. 1870.
On some New Species of Fishes obtained by Prof. Orton from the Marafion or Upper Amazon and Napo Rivers.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Set.
Phila. 1870 pp.
9296.
Steindachner F. 1880.
Zur FischFauna des Cauca und der Fliisse bei Guayaquil.
Denk.
Ak.
Wins.
Wien. XLII 1880 pp.
55104 Pis.
19.
Thominot A.
1887.
Sur un Saccodon d'espece nouvelle venant de l'Equateur.
Bull.
Soc.
Philomath. 7 VI 1882 pp.
248251.
Boulenger G. A.
1887.
An Account of the Fishes collected by Mr. C. Buckley in Eastern Ecuador.
Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1887 pp.
274283 Pis.
2024.
1 Acara rivulata Regan Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 7 XV 1905 p. 338 type.
Rio Peripa W. Ecuador.
1898.
Viaggio del Dr. Enrico Festa nell 'Ecuador e regioni vicine.
Poissons de l'Equateur.
Premiere Partie.
Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Armt.
Torino XIII No.
329 1898 pp.
113.
1899.
Description of a new Genus of Gobioid Fishes from the Andes of Ecuador.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. 7 IV 1899 pp.
125126.
1899.
Viaggio del Dr. Enrico Festa nell 'Ecuador e regioni vicine.
Poissons de l'Equateur.
Deuxieme Partie.
Boll.
Mus.
Zool.
Anal.
Torino XIV No.
335 1899 pp.
18.
Evermann B. W. and Kendall W. C. 1905.
An interesting species of Fish from the High Andes of Central Ecuador.
Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. XVIII 1905 pp.
91106 2 figs.
Starks E. C. 1906.
On a collection of Fishes made by P. O. Simons in Ecuador and Peru.
Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXX 1906 pp.
761800 tigs.
110 Pis.
6066.
October 3.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Seventeen persons present.
The Secretaries the Curators and the Librarian reported on the work of the summer.
The Publication Committee reported that papers under the following titles had been considered for publication since the meeting held May 16 Some Fishes from Venezuela by Henry W. Fowler May 20.
The Lyriform Organs and Tactile Hairs of Araneads by Norman Eugene McAdoo May 25.
Some Arachnida from North Carolina by Nathan Banks June 14.
Observations on Sarcocystis rileyi Stiles by Howard Crawley July 7.
Notes on the Anatomy and Classification of the Genera Omphalia and Mesomphix by Henry A. Pilsbry July 24.
A new California Chiton by S. S. Berry August 1.
New Freshwater Fishes from Western Ecuador by Henry W. Fowler September 22.
A new East Indian Euciroa by Henry A. Pilsbry September 28.
The deaths of Mrs. Gulielma M. S. P. Jones a member February 1910 and of Francis William Rawle a member June 12 1911 were announced.
The deaths of the following Correspondents were also announced  Thomas Rupert Jones April 13 1911.
Charles M. Scammon May 2 1911.
Samuel H. Scudder May 17 1911.
Nevil Story Maskelyn May 27 1911.
Ralph Tate.
Hennadius D. Romano wsky.
The following Standing Committees appointed by the Council December 24 1910 were inadvertently omitted from the proceedings of January 3 1911 Finance.
 John Cadwalader Edwin S. Dixon Effingham B. Morris William D. Winsor and the Treasurer George Vaux Jr..
Publications.
 Henry Skinner M.D. Witmer Stone A.M. Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. William J.
Fox and Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Library.
 Thomas H. Fenton M.D. Thomas Biddie M.D. George Vaux Jr. Henry Tucker M.D. and Frank J. Keeley.
Instruction and Lectures.
 Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D. Charles Morris Witmer Stone A.M. Henry Tucker M.D. and George Spencer Morris.
October 17.
Philip P. Calvert Ph.D. in the Chair.
Twentyone persons present.
The reception of papers under the following titles was reported  Mollusca of Arkansas Louisiana and Mississippi by E. G. Vanatta October 16.
Notes on some Pleurotomariidre of the Cretaceous of New Jersey by Henry A. Pilsbry Sc.D.
October 17.
The death of Florentino Ameghino a Correspondent was reported.
Mr. Witmer Stone spoke of the fauna and flora of western Maryland and their relationships.
No abstract.
Uhlic Dahlgren and John Sinnott were elected member.
The following were ordered to be printed inn.
523 A NEW EAST INDIAN EUCIROA.
BY H. A. PILSBRY.
In a collection of invertebrates from the East Indies there was a single right valve of Euciroa differing from all described species of the genus by its great size and by the orbicular shape.
Euciroa dalli n. sp.
The shell is rather plump subcircular slightly inequilateral the length and height about equal.
Anterior margin broadly rounded posterior margin obtusely subangular near the base with a shallow emargination above the angle.
Dorsal and ventral margins about equally convex.
Beaks small slightly projecting above the margin and turned forward.
The exterior is evenly convex except for a low rounded ridge running to the posterior angle the area above it beingflattened.
Surface sculptured with many unequally spaced low radii bearing small wellraised pustules the slightly concave intervals between the radii irregularly rather closely and minutely granular.
The posterior flattened area has no radial rows of pustules but is densely granular.
Lines of growth are scarcely visible except near the basal and posterior margins where they are rather strong and irregular.
It is light buff with some reddish stains.
The interior is brilliantly pearly with some iridescence of the silvery surface chiefly towards the margins.
The adductor muscle impressions are large and deep.
Within the smooth pallial band there is a broad roughened area.
The lower margin of the valve E. dalli.
About f natural size.
has a very narrow dull minutely pitted border within which the nacreous layer is finely almost regularly grooved at right angles to the edge with some coarse unequal and irregularly placed wrinkles in the same direction.
The cartilage pit is deeply excavated the tooth stout erect and triangular.
Length 67 alt.
65 semidiameter 21 mm.
Near Sibuko Bay Borneo.
This species is much larger than any of the known Poromyaceous clams.
It is far larger and shorter than the Hawaiian Euciroa pacifica Dall.
1 A very similar perhaps identical species from the Philippines is contained in the collections made by Dr. Paul Bartsch while on the Albatross which I was able to inspect through the kindness of Dr. William H. Dall.
1 Report on Mollusca and Brachiopoda dredged in Deep Water chiefly near the Hawaiian Islands Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XVII p. 688 1895.
1911.
525 MOLLUSCA OF ARKANSAS LOUISIANA AND MISSISSIPPI.
BY E. G. VANATTA.
The following species of shells were collected by Mr. Clarence B. Moore and presented to the Academy of Natural Sciences.
In the absence of any records covering the region it was thought desirable to list the species found.
Bifidaria contracta climeana n. var.
Figs.
1.. 2 3.
Shell similar to typical contracta Say but the parietal tooth lacks the inner continuation being Lshaped.
Alt 2.29 diam.
1.43 mm.
.
m m. Type in the collection of the Academy number 97605 from near Anderson Landing on the Sunflower River near the confluence with the Yazoo River Sharkey Co. Miss.
Also in the collection from near Blakeley Baldwin Co. Ala. Simpson Island Baldwin Co. Ala. Clarence B. Moore Calera and Wetumpka Ala. H. H. Smith O'Neil Landing Yazoo Co. Miss.
C. B. Moore City Park New Orleans La.
S. N. Rhoads  above Eagle Island Landing Franklin Parish and Sycamore Landing Morehouse Parish La.
Clarence B. Moore Carlock Place and Tebbs Place Ashley Co. and near Menard Landing Arkansas Co. Ark.
C. B. Moore Navidad River bottom Jackson Co. Tex.
J. D. Mitchell.
Named in honor of Mr. Arthur W. Clime one of Mr. Moore's assistants.
35 St. Francis River Cross Co. Ark. collected by Arthur W. Clime POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
POLYGYRA DENOTATA Fer.
Circinaria concava Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Mesomphix laevigata Beck.
St. Francis River seven miles above Parkin Cross Co. Ark. collected by Arthur W. Clime Circinaria concava Say.
Omphalina friabilis W. G. B. Zonitoides singleyana Pils.
Near Wampoo Landing Arkansas River Pulaski Co. Ark.
 POLYGYRA LEPORINA Old.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Helicodiscus parallelus Say.
About twentyfive miles below Pine Bluff Arkansas River Jefferson Co. Ark.
 POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
About thirty miles above Pine Bluff Arkansas River Jefferson Co. Ark.
 POLYGYRA ALBOLABRIS ALLENI Wetll.
Sladers Landing Arkansas River Jefferson Co. Ark.
 Polygyra inflecta Say.
BlFIDARIA CORTICARIA Say.
Strobilops labyrinthica Say.
VlTREA SIGNIFICANS Bid.
VlTREA HAMMONIS Strom.
Euconulus chersinus trochulus Reinh.
Helicodiscus parallelus Say.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Old River Landing Arkansas River above Arkansas Post Arkansas Co. Ark.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Imperforate.
Between South Bend and Douglas Arkansas River Arkansas Co. Ark.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Umbilicate and imperforate.
Near Menard Landing Arkansas River Arkansas Co. Ark.
 Polygyra inflecta Say.
BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Vail.
Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
Mesomphix laevigata Pfr.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Striatura milium Mse.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Near Douglas Arkansas River Lincoln Co. Ark.
 BlFIDARIA PENTODON Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
A few miles below Camden Ouachita River Ouachita Co. Ark.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Polygyra obstricta carolinensis Lea.
Kent near Camden Ouachita Co. Ark. about two miles from the Ouachita River Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Imperforate.
Polygyra inflecta Say.
Polygyra leporina Gld.
Polygyra obstricta carolinensis Lea.
BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA Say.
Vertigo milium Gld.
Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils. Young.
VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll.
Striatura milium Mse.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Carychium exile Lea.
Friar's Bluff Ouachita River Ouachita Co. Ark.
 Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Omphalina cuprea Raf.
Striatura milium meridionalis Pils.
Euconulus chersinus trochulus Reinh.
Helicodiscus parallelus Say.
Near Purdue Wood Camp Ouachita River Calhoun Co. Ark.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Imperforate.
POLYGYRA INFLECTA Say.
Polygyra leporina Gld.
VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
ZONITOIDES MINUSCULA Bilin.
Euconulus chersinus trochulus Reinh.
Keller Place Landing Ouachita River Calhoun Co. Ark.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Imperforate.
Polygyra leporina Gld.
BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA Say.
Vertigo oscariana St. Strobilops texasiana Pils.
VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll.
Striatura milium meridionalis Pils.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Omphalina cuprea Raf.
Euconulus chersinus trochulus Reinh.
Carychium exile Lea.
Carlock Place Bayou Bartholomew Ashley Co. Ark.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Imperforate.
Polygyra inflecta Say.
Polygyra leporina Gld.
BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van.
Strobilops labyrinthica Say.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
VlTREA HAMMONIS Strom.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Tebbs Place Bayou Bartholomew Ashley Co. Ark.
 Polygyra inflecta Say.
BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Striatura milium Mse.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Lovett Landing Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 Zonitoides arborea Say.
Zonitoides singleyana Pils.
Vertigo rugulosa St. Sycamore Landing Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van.
BlFIDARIA PENTODON TAPPANIANA Ad.
Strobilops texasiana Pils.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Wards Place near Wardville Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Zonitoides singleyana Pils.
Near Miller Landing Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Zonitoides minuscula Binn.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Young.
Mound Landing Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
Near Jones Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
Polygyra inflecta Say.
BlFIDARIA PENTODON TAPPANIANA Ad.
Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Omphalina friabilis Binn.
Mesomphix laevigata Beck.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Wilson Landing Bayou Bartholomew Morehouse Parish La.
 Strobilops labyrinthica Say.
VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll.
Above Charlieville Boeuf River Richland Parish La.
 Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Port Union Landing Ouachita River Ouachita Parish La.
 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Myatt's Landing Ouachita River Ouachita Parish La.
 ZONITOIDES SINGLEYANA Pils.
Stubbs Plantation Ouachita River Ouachita Parish La.
 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Above Eagle Landing Bayou Boeuf Franklin Parish La.
 POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
Bifid aria contracta climeana Van.
Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
Dailey Landing Boeuf River Franklin Parish La.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Nearly imperforate.
POLYGYRA INFLECTA Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Mesomphix laevigata Beck.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Jones Landing Bayou Boeuf Franklin Parish La.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
Imperforate.
EUGLANDINA ROSEA BULLATA Gld.
Blue Cane Landing Black River Catahoula Parish La.
 Polygyra thyroidus Say.
BlFIDARIA PENTODON TAPPANIANA Ad.
Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
One mile below Harrisonburg Ouachita River Catahoula Parish La.
 VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Welch Landing Ouachita River Catahoula Parish La.
 Strobilops strebeli Pfr.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Junction of Bushley Creek and Old River a fork of Little River Catahoula Parish La.
 ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Donohue Ferry Little River Catahoula Parish La.
 Strobilops labyrinthica Say.
VlTREA INDENTATA UMBILICATA Ckll.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Zonitoides MiNUSCULA Binn.
Euconulus CHERSINUS dentatus St. Two miles above Jonesville Little River La.
 POLYGYRA THYROIDUS Say.
Polygyra monodon friersoni Pils.
A small form.
POLYGYRA LEPORINA Gld.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Euconulus chersinus Say.
Mr. Cody's Place O'Neil Landing Yazoo River Yazoo Co. Miss.
 Polygyra appressa perigrapta Pils.
BlFIDARIA CONTRACTA CLIMEANA Van.
Bifidaria pentodon Say.
Strobilops strebeli aenea Pils.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
Near Anderson Landing Sunflower River Sharkey Co. Miss.
 Polygyra albolabris Say.
Young.
Polygyra denotata Fer.
BlFIDARIA PENTODON Say.
Bifid art a contracta clime an a Van.
Strobilops strebeli Pfr.
VlTREA INDENTATA Say.
ZONITOIDES ARBOREA Say.
Zonitoides singleyana Pils.
Greenishyellow.
Pyramidula alternata Say.
1911.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
533 November 7.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
Twenty persons present.
The reception of the following papers was reported A Monograph of the Procyonidae  by R. W. Shufeldt M.D.
October 17.
The Formation of Ripplemarks Tracks and Trails by Amos P. Brown October 25.
The death of Ernest Andre a correspondent June 14 was announced.
In announcing the death on October 31 of the Rev.
Henry C. McCook D.D. the Recording Secretary stated that he had been elected a member August 31 1875 and had served as VicePresident from May 1882 to December 1900.
He was earnest and efficient as the Chairman of the Committee on Lectures and Instruction from 1880 to 1887.
During the period of his active association he was always energetic in the enforcement of what he regarded as best for the welfare of the Academy.
His work on the natural history of ants and spiders will give him a permanent place in the history of Science in America.
A more extended notice of Dr. McCook's scientific work will be published by the Entomological Section of the Academy.
John W. Harshberger Ph.D. made a communication on the vegetation of extreme southern Florida.
No abstract.
Captain Hugh L. Willoughby in continuation spoke of the physiography and primitive vegetation of Lake Ochichobee and the Everglades.
November 21.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Thirtytwo persons present.
The reception of a paper entitled Notes on Salmonoid and related Fishes by Henry W. Fowler was reported.
The death of Malcolm Lloyd a member September 27 was announced.
Mr. Charles Morris made a communication on the extinction of the giant reptiles.
No abstract.
The following were ordered to be printed NOTES ON SOME PLEUR0T0MARIID2E OF THE CRETACEOUS OF NEW JERSEY.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY Sc.D.
The following notes are based upon a study of the type specimens of the species discussed together with other examples in the collection of the Academy.
The generic term Pleurotomaria is here used in the older wide sense.
Pleurotomaria crotaloides Morton.
Cirrus crotaloides Morton Synopsis Organic Remains Cretaceous group of the U. S. p. 49 pi.
19 fig.
5 1834.
Pleurotomaria crotaloides Pils. Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1896 p. 11 notes on Morton's type specimen.
This species is represented in the collection of the Academy by the type specimen from Erie Ala. figured by Morton and a smaller example from Uniontown in which the slit is well shown.
It is 17 mm.
long so far as preserved probably about 20 when perfect and 1 mm.
wide fig.
1.
Both specimens are internal casts.
In 1896 the writer identified a much Fi j P crotaloides larger cast from Mullica Hill with P. crotaloides a conclusion which renewed study shows was erroneous.
The Mullica Hill example differs in several important particulars as indicated below under P. woolmani.
In 1907 Professor Stuart Weller understood P. crotaloides to include Architectonica abbotti Gabb as well as the form now differentiated as P. woolmani.
This course seems to me untenable for reasons given below.
So far as present information and collections show P. crotaloides Morton is not known to occur in New Jersey.
Pleurotomaria abbotti Gabb..
Architectonica abbotti Gabb Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1861 p. 321.
Margaritella abbotti Gabb Whitfield Gastrop.
and Ceph.
of the Raritan Clays and Grcensand Marls of New Jersey p. 134 pi.
17 figs.
1215.
Pleurotomaria crotaloides Morton Weller Rep. on the Cret.
Paleont.
of New Jersey 1907 p. 665.
Not of Morton.
Professor Whitfield's figures give a good idea of this species though they are somewhat restored the plication below the suture being made continuous whereas in the shells it has been partially effaced moreover the spiral striation depicted is far less distinct in the specimens themselves.
One of the two cotypes shows the trace of a slit a short distance above the periphery narrower and nearer to the periphery than in P. crotaloides.
The specimens are internal casts composed of coarse glauconitic sand.
The fact that they show sculpture indicates that the shell was quite thin its inner surface being modified in conformity with the external ornamentation.
P. crotaloides was probably thicker since the casts although in fine material show no trace whatever of sculpture.
This alone would indicate the specific diversity of P. crotaloides and P. abbotti but an inspection of the fossils shows that the spire was a little higher in P. abbotti and the greatest convexity of the upper surface of the whorls is not quite so close to the suture.
The umbilicus is about equal in the casts of the two species being somewhat less than onethird the total diameter of the shell.
In P. woolmani it is more than onethird the diameter.
There can I believe be no reasonable doubt that P. abbotti is specifically distinct from P. crotaloides.
Pleurotomaria woolmani n. sp.
Pleurotomaria crotaloides Pilsbry Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1896 p. 10 pi.
I.
Not of Morton.
This species differs from both P. crotaloides and P. abbotti by its broad umbilicus which is contained 2times in the diameter of the shell while in the other species it is contained more than three times 3 to fully 3 in the diameter.
The earlier whorls are evenly rounded above oval in section not irregularly swollen as in the other species.
There is no trace of the radial sculpture of P. abbotti although the cast is very perfectly preserved.
The unique type an internal cast has been described and figured in my paper cited above.
It measures 70 mm.
in diameter.
The type is No.
1625 A. N. S. P. This species is named in honor of the late Lewis Woolman whose work on wellborings contributed important facts relative to the stratigraphy of New Jersey.
He was also a successful collector of fossils.
