FIXATION OF SINGLE TYPE LECTOTYPIC SPECIMENS OF SPECIES OF AMERICAN Orthoptera
DIVISION III.
BY ALBERT P. MORSE AND MORGAN HEBARD.
Species of North American Orthoptera Described BY Albert Pitts Morse.
The desirability of selection and fixation of a single type has been discussed and such work accomplished for a large number of species of North American Orthoptera in the first paper bearing the title here used by James A. G. Rehn and the present junior author. The species of North American Orthoptera described by A. N. Caudell have been treated in similar manner in the second division of the series by their sponsor and the present junior author  and in this paper the species described from North America by the present senior author whether valid or established synonyms are similarly treated.
It has been a rule with the senior author to consider every specimen of the series originally described as a type but the selection from these of the single type by their author obviates all difficulties which might otherwise have arisen.
In the present paper North America is used in its restricted sense only including that part of the continent north of the Mexican line as has been done in the other papers of the series except in particular instances in the first division where in order to make certain of the sections complete it was found necessary to include all of the species described in papers treating of North America south to the Isthmus of Panama.
Of the sixtyfive units here considered the types of fiftytwo are in the Morse Collection ten in the Museum of Comparative Zoology and one each in the American Museum of Natural History Cornell University and Hebard Collection.
As in the previous papers of this series the nomenclature given iPROC.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1912 pp.
60128 1912.
2 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1912 pp.
157168 1912. '
Unless otherwise stated it is understood that the types here selected are in the Morse Collection.
in the original description is used throughout as this paper is not intended to be in any way revisionary.
Paratettix HESPERUS.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc VII p. 198 1899.
Described from two hundred and seventysix specimens of both sexes from one locaUty.
Single type here designated 9  Glendale Oregon September 9 1897 Morse.
Paratettix toltecus extensus
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc VII p. 198 1899.
Based on eighteen males and twentyone females from six localities.
Single type here designated 9  San Bernardino California July 16 1897 Morse.
Tettix crassus
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc VII p. 201 1899.
Based on eighteen males and twentythree females from two definite localities and the State record.
Single type here designated c
 Colorado Morrison.
Tettix hancocki
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc VII p. 200 1899. '
described from fourteen males and fourteen females from a single locality.
Single type here designated  cf  Ames Iowa May 30  E. D. Ball.
Tettix hancockibbreviatus.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc VII p. 200 1899.
Based on specimens from the type series of Tettix hancocki
Single type here designated d  Ames Iowa May 24 E. D. Ball.
Tettix tentatus
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc VII p. 200 1899.
Based on one male and five females from four localities.
Single type here designated 9  Laggan Alberta Bean Museum of Comparative Zoology.
 The use of brackets in the present paper indicates authentic information .not contained in the original descriptron.
7 Nomotettix COMPRESSUS.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 15 1895.
Based on two males and five females from a single questioned State.
Single type here designated cf  probably North Carolina G. F. Atkinson Cornell University.
Nomotettix CRISTATUS DENTICULATUS.
Psyche XIII p. 119 1906.
Based on six males and one female from four localities.
Single type here designated cf  Denison Texas August 11 1905 Morse.
Nomotettix Parvus
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 14 1895.
Based on four males one female and one immature specimen from one locality.
Single type here designated cf  St. Anthony Park Minnesota Lugger.
Tettigidea Acuta
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 15 1895.
Based on three females from a single locality.
Single type here designated 9  New York Uhler Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Tettigidea armata
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 107 1895.
Described from two males and seven females from two known and one unknown locality.
Single type here designated  9  Vigo County Indiana September 6 1893 Blatchley.
Tettigidea armatadepressa.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 107 1895.
Based on one male and four females from five localities.
Single type here designated 9  Vigo County Indiana Blatchley.
Tettigidea apiculata.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 16 1895.
Based on a pair from a single locality.
Single type here designated 9  New Orleans Louisiana Akhurst Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Tettigidea DAVISI.
Psyche XV p. 25 1908.
Described from fifteen specimens from three localities.
Single type here designated 9  Perth Amboy New Jersey May 31 Wm.
T. Davis.
Tettigidea prorsa elongata.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 16 1895.
Described from two males and one female from a single State.
Single type here designated 9  Georgia.
 Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Tettigidea spicata.
Jour.
N. Y. Ent.
Soc III p. 108 1895.
Based on one male and two females from two localities.
Single type here designated 9  Florida Morrison Hebard Collection Type No.
402.
PSEUDOPOMALA BRACHYPTERA REVERSA.
Psyche VII p. 343 1896.
Based on material from unspecified localities.
Single type here designated 9  Sudbury Massachusetts July 10 1892 Morse.
CORDILLACRIS AFFINIS.
Psyche X p. 115 1903.
Based on one male and five females from a single county.
Single type here designated unique cf.
 Ormsby County Nevada lower edge of pine zone 17002000 metres west of Carson City July 6 C. F. Baker.
Orphulella OLIVACEA.
' Psyche VI p. 477 1893.
Based on one hundred and eighty males and one hundred and sixtyseven females from two localities.
Single type here designated 9  Stamford Connecticut August 13 to 17 1891 Morse.
Clinocephalus elegans.
Psyche VII p. 402 1896.
Based on five males and two females from two definite two State and one unknovn locality.
Single type here designated   Ravenswood Long Island New York Beutenmiiller Museum of Comparative Zoology.
100 proceedings of the academy of mar. Chlcealtis conspersa prima.
Psyche VII p. 420 1896.
Based on an unspecified series from three localities.
Single type here designated 9  Sherborn Massachusetts 1895 Morse.
Stenobothrus acutus.
Psijche X p. 115 1903.
Based on five males from a single locality.
Single type here designated cf  Orinsby County Nevada lower edge of pine zone 17002000 metres west of Carson City July 6 C. F. Baker.
HiPPISCUS IMMACULATUS Psijche XIII p. 119 1906.
Described from a unique male from Clarendon Texas August 18 1905 Morse.
SpHARAGEM0n QUALE Subsp.
SCUDDERI.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist XXVI p. 225 1894.
Based on eightyeight males and ninetyeight females from eight localities.
Single type here designated 9  Sherborn Massachusetts July 25 1892 Morse.
Spharagemon collare race angustipenne.
Psyche VII p. 298 1895.
Based on nine males and four females from a single locality.
Single type here designated 9  Salt Lake Valley Utah 4300 feet August 1 to 4 1877  Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Spharagemon collare race pallidum.
Psijche VII p. 299 1895.
Based on four males and two females from one locality.
Single type here designated 9  White River Colorado July 24 to August 13 Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Spharagemon humile.
Psyche VII p. 292 1895.
Based on two males from a single locality.
Single type here designated cf  Garden of the Gods Colorado Museum of Comparative Zoology.
Spharagemon INORNATUM.
Psyche VII p. 291 1895.
Described from a unique female Hot Springs New Mexico 7000 feet.
Spharagemon oculatum.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XXVI p. 232 1894.
Based on seven males and seven females from probably four localities.
Single type here designated 9  Marshall County Indiana August 1 1892 Blatchley dried alcoholic.
Spharagemon saxatile.
Proc.
Bost.
Soc.
Nat.
Hist. XXVI p. 229 1894.
Based on ninetyone males and sixty females from eleven localities.
Single type here designated 9  Blue Hill Massachusetts September 20 1891 Morse.
Spharagemon saxatile planum.
Pstche XI p. 13 1904.
Based on twentytwo males and ten females from a single locality.
Single type here designated  9  Wytheville Virginia September 4 to 5 1903 2300 feet Morse.
EOTETTIX PALUSTRIS.
Psyche XI p. 7 1904.
Described from three males and one female from one locality.
Single type here designated c  Live Oak Florida August 10 1903 Morse.
EOTETTIX PUSILLUS.
Psyche XI p. 7 1904.
Based on seventeen males and two females from two localities.
Single type here designated cf  Waycross Georgia August 11 1903 Morse.
Hesperotettix floridensis.
Can.
EnL XXXIII p. 130 1901.
Described from fourteen males and four females from a single locality.
Single type here designated  c  Hastings Florida August 17 to 18 1900 A.
J.
Brown.
102 proceedings of the academy of mar. Hesperotettix nevadensis.
Psyche X p. 115 1903.
Described from three males and three females from a single locality.
Single type here designated cf  Ormsby County Nevada lower edge of pine zone 17002000 metres west of Carson City July 6 C. F. Baker.
Bradynotes compacta.
Psyche X p. 116 1903.
Described from four males and four females from a single localitj'.
Single type here designated  d  Ormsby County Nevada lower edge of pine zone 17002000 metres west of Carson City July 6 C. F. Baker.
Podisma SCUDDERI.5 Psyche XIII p. 120 1906.
Described from a unique female from Cheaha Chehawhaw Mountain Alabama July 13 1905 2300 feet Morse'.
Paratylotropidia beutenmuelleri.
Psyche XIV p. 14 1907.
Based on a unique female Valley of Black Mountain North Carolina August 30 1906 W. Beutenmiiller American Museum of Natural History.
Melanoplus australis.
Psijche XI p. 13 1904.
Based on a unique male Savannah Georgia August 14 1903 Morse.
Melanoplus carnegiei.
Psyche XI p. 10 1904.
Based on nine males and two females from three localities.
Single type here designated cf  Denmark South Carolina August 15 1903 Morse.
Melanoplus celatus.
Psyche XI p. 10 1904.
Based on five males and three females from one locality.
Single type here designated  cf  Wytheville Virginia September 4 to 5 1903 30003500 feet Morse.
 New name Podis7rm australis proposed by Morse Psijche XIV p. 57 1907.
Melanoplus DECEPTUS.
Psyche XI p. 9 1904.
Based on eight males and eight females from a single locality.
Single tje here designated cf  Jones Peak Balsam Mountains North Carolina August 19 1903 57006100 feet Morse.
Melanoplus decoratus.
Psyche XI p. 12 1904.
Based on five males and sixteen females from four localities.
Single tji3e here designated cf  Murphy North Carolina July 25 1903 1800 feet Morse.
Melanoplus devius.
Psyche XI p. 12 1904.
Based on twentyfour males and twentyone females from two localities.
Single type here designated  cf  Wytheville Virginia September 4 to 5 1903 30003500 feet Morse.
Melanoplus divergens.
Psyche XI p. 8 1904.
Based on fifteen males and eighteen females from one locality.
Single tjpe here designated cf  Balsam North Carolina Julj 24 1903 50006000 feet Morse.
Melanoplus harrisi.
Psyche XVI p. 12 1909.
Described from a unique male Needham Massachusetts August 23 1908 rank herbage in upland field Morse.
Melanoplus latens.
Psyche XIII p. 120 1906.
Based on six males and ten females from four localities.
Single tjpe here designated  cf  Caddo Indian Territory August 9 1905 Morse.
Melanoplus scudderi latus.
Psyche XIII p. 122 1906.
Based on two males from one locality.
Single type here designated cf  Bonita Texas August 14 1905 Morse.
Melanoplus SIMILIS.
Psyche XI p. 9 190i.
Based on three males from a single locality.
Single type here designated cf Murphy North Carolina July 25 1903 1800 feet Morse.
Melanoplus strumosus.
Psyche XI p. 11 1904.
Based on one male and four females from two localities.
Single type here designated unique cf De Funiak Springs Florida August 5 1903 Morse.
Melanoplus sylvestris.
Psyche XI p. 10 1904.
Based on thirteen males and seventeen females from four localities.
Single type here designated cT Blowing Rock North Carolina July 19 1903 35004000 feet Morse.
Melanoplus symmetricus.
Psyche XI p. 8 1904.
Based on three males and six females from a single locality.
Single type here designated  cf  Carrabelle Florida August 9 1903 Morse.
Melanoplus tepidus.
Psyche XIII p. 121 1906.
Based on three males and three females from one locality.
Single type here designated cf Meridian Mississippi July 16.
1905 Morse.
Melanoplus tribuloides.
Psyche XIII p. 121 1906.
Based on three males and five females from two localities.
Single type here designated  cf  Cheaha Chehawhaw Mountain Alabama July 13 1905 20002800 feet Morse.
Melanoplus tribulus.
Psyche XI p. 11 1904.
Based on two males and one female from a single locality.
Single type here designated cT  Sharptop Mountain spur of Grassy Mountain Jasper Georgia July 25 1903 2600 feet Morse.
Melanoplus TUBERCULATUS.
Psijche XIII p. 121 1906.
Described from twelve males and three females from two localities.
Single type here designated cf  Quanah Texas August 21 1905 Morse.
SCUDDERIA CUNEATA.
Can.
Ent. XXXIII p. 130 1901.
Described from a unique male Alabama Baker.
XiPHIDIUM GRACILLIMUM.
Can.
Ent. XXXIII p. 2.36 1901.
Described from five males and one female from two localities.
Single tnpe here designated o  Miami Biscayne Bay Florida Airs.
A. T. Slosson Museum of Comparative Zoology XiPHIDIUM OCCIDENTALE.
Can.
Ent. XXXIII p. 202 1901.
Based on sixtynine males sixty females and three immature specimens from eleven localities.
Single type here designated cf  Tehachapi California August 31 1897 Morse.
XiPHIDIUm OCCIDENTALE CAMURUM.
Can.
Ent. XXXIII p. 202 1901.
Based on a single female Ashland Oregon September 7 1897 Morse.
XiPHIDIUM OCCIDENTALE CAUDATUM.
Can.
Ent. XXXIII p. 203 1901.
Based on one male and two females from a single locality.
Single type here designated 9  Mount Shasta district California July H. Edwards Museum of Comparative Zoology'.
XiPHIDIUM SPINOSUM.
Can.
Ent. XXXIII p. 201 1901.
Based on three males two females and one immature female from a single locality.
Single type here designated  cf  Coronado California July 24.
1897 on salt marsh Morse.
XiPHIDIUM VICINUM.
Can.
EnL XXXIII p. 203 1901.
Described from sixtyone males and fiftynine females from fifteen localities.
Single type here designated cf  Palm Springs California July 10 1897 Morse.
XiPHIDIUM vicinum form productum.
Can.
EnL XXXIII p. 204 1901.
Based on a portion of the typical series of Xiphidium vicinurji.
Single type here designated 9  San Bernardino California July 15 1897 Morse.
Odontoxiphidium aptertjm.
Can.
EnL XXXIII p. 129 1901.
Based on twelve males sixteen females and two immature specimens from one locality.
Single type here designated  cf  Hastings Florida August 18 to 21 1900 A.
J.
Brown.
a biological reconnaissance of the okefinokee swamp in georgia.
Prefatory.
During the summer of 1912 a party of zoologists all froni Cornell University visited the Okefinokee Swamp in southeastern Georgia remaining seven weeks in the early summer May 28 to July 13.
The party consisted of Professors C. R. Crosby and J. Chester Bradley of the Department of Entomology Dr. A. H. Wright of the Department of Zoology Headmaster W. D. Funkhouser of the Ithaca High School Messrs. M. D. Leonard S. C. Bishop and A. R. Cahn of the class of 1913 and Paul Battle of Bainbridge Ga. Mr. E. I.. Worsham State Entomologist of Georgia and Mr. Charles S. Spooner Assistant State Entomologist were with the party for a week.
A smaller part' from the same institution spent two weeks in the swamp in December 1913 December 18 1913 to January 1 1914.
This party consisted of Professors James G. Needham and J. Chester Bradley John T. Needham and Paul Battle.
In addition.
Dr. Bradley and Mr. Battle spent a week in the swamp in September 1913 and Dr. Bradley had made very brief trips into the swamp in the fall of 1909 and the spring of 1911.
The object of all these expeditions was to study and put on record something of the biological conditions in this extensive freshwater swamp which still presents in a large measure primitive and interesting conditions of environment before they should become forever changed by the now rapidly penetrating lumbermen.
Under the above title it is intended to publish reports upon the various groups collected as studied.
In due course a general account of the ecological and environmental features will be published.
A report upon the birds by Dr. Albert H. Wright and F. Harper has appeared in The Auk 1913 4  477505 PI.
XIVXX.
This contains brief descriptions of the various habitats of the swamp.
In the reports on the various groups observations made and specimens collected during the summer of 1912 will be credited to the Cornell University Expedition abbreviated C. U.
Exp.
This does not imply that the university had any official connection with the work.
Each member of the party went on his own initiative and at his own expense.
THE REPTILES.
I. TURTLES LIZARDS AND ALLIGATOR.
BY ALBERT H. WRIGHT AND W. D. FUNKHOUSER.
Although the Okefinokee Swamp represents one of the most interesting regions in the southeastern United States for the study of reptihan hfe practically no records have been made of this part of its fauna.
The following paper is intended as a preliminary contribution toward a knowledge of the herpetology of this area  an area which is sure to prove a rich field for zoological work when suitable provision has been made to render its interior more accessible.
Few attempts have been made to enter the Okefinokee for scientific purposes.
The swamp in its earlier history was a centre for beautiful Indian legends and mythical tales in later times this pathless wilderness occasioned a weird medley of stories many of which reflect its supposedly dangerous attributes.
The miasmatic effect of the black mud the stench from which soon became so intolerable as to induce vomiting impresses Captain Rodenbough 1838 as its worst characteristic while another considers it  very dangerous to the health of man especially to recent arrivals in the country .... in the Okefinokee mosquitoes sometimes rise in such swarms that the trees are only seen dimly as through a duststorm.
But with natives and travellers alike a deterrent more powerful than either of these behefs are the dreaded reptiles within its borders.
Paul Fountainin his A Day in a Cypress Swamp Okefinokee devotes practically his entire chapter to these coldblooded creatures.
He says A greater number of reptiles may be found in this swamp than in any other spot I know of in the States and our experience proves it a veritable paradise for the herpetologist.
Professor A. M. Reese when searching for clues to the breeding habits of the alligator made a trip to the Okefinokee in the summer of 1905.
He says In the summer of 1906 the Okefinokee was again visited this time the swamp was penetrated to its centre and nearly one hundred alHgators were killed by the three hunters with whom I was travelling.
It is this vigorous hunting done chiefly at night with a bull'seye lantern and shotgun that has so diminished the number of alligators where twenty years ago hundreds 1 Rodenbough.
T. F. From everglades to canon with the Second Dragoons 18361875.
New York.
187.5.
Pp.
31 32.
Fountain Paul.
The great deserts and forests of North America.
London and New York.
1901.
Pp.
.5266.
3 Reese A. M. The breeding habits of the Florida Alligator.
Smilhsonian Miss.
Colls.
XLVII Quarterly Issue Vol.
III.
1907.
Pp.
381 382. could be seen today scarcely one may be found.
It seems a very wanton destruction of life to kill so many of these large animals especially when it is remembered that a large alligator hide is worth to the hunter only about 1.50.
Just how soon if at all the alligator is likely to be exterminated in our Southern States it is impossible to say but so long as those two great swampy wastes the Everglades and the Okefinokee remain undrained the great American reptile is not hkely to become entireljextinct.
Of this same form we have the very interesting account of Andrew EUicott who served as the United States Commissioner to determine the boundary between Florida and Georgia in 1800.
With tlie Spanish Commissioner he started up the St. Mary's January 23 and returned March 3 and his mounds A and B have been the subject of many memorials by both Florida and Georgia.
He writes  This being the season that the Alligators or American crocodiles were beginning to crawl out of the mud and bask in the sun it was a favorable time to take them both on account of their torpid state and to examine the truth of the report of their swallowing pine knots in the fall of the year to serve them on account of their difficult digestion during the term of their torpor which is probably about three months.
For this purpose two Alligators of about eight or nine feet in length were taken and opened and in the stomach of each were found several pine and other knots pieces of bark and in one of them some charcoal but exclusive of such indigestible matter the stomachs of both were empty.
So far the report appears to be founded in fact but whether these were swallowed on account of their tedious digestion and therefore proper during the time those animals lay in the mud or to prevent the collapse of the coats of the stomach or by accident owing to their voracious manner of devouring their food is difficult to determine.
The Alfigator has been so often and so well described and those descriptions are so well known that other attempts have become unnecessary.
It may nevertheless be proper to remark that so far as the human species are concerned the Alligators appear much leis dangerous than has generally been supposed particularly by those unacquainted with them.
And I do not recollect meeting with but one well authenticated fact of any of the human species being injured by them in that country where they are very numerous and that was a negro near New Orleans who while standing in the water sawing a piece of timber had one of his legs dangerously wounded by one of them.
My opinion on this subject is founded on my own experience.
I have frequently been a witness to Indians including men women and children bathing in rivers and ponds where those animals are extremely numerous without any apparent dread or caution the same practice was pursued by myself and people without caution and without injiuy.
Some of the Alligators we killed were very fat and would doubtless have yielded a considerable quantity of oil which is probably almost the only use that will ever be made of them however their tails are frequently eaten by the Indians and negroes and Mr. Bowles informed me that he thought them one of the greatest of delicacies.
The.
Alligators appear to abound plentifully in musk the smell of which is sometimes perceptible to a considerable distance when they are wounded or killed but whether the musk is contained in a receptacle for that purpose and secreted by a particular gland or glands or generally diffused through the system appears somewhat uncertain and I confe.ss their appearance was so disagreeable and offensive to me that I felt no inclination to undertake the dissection of one of them.
4 EUicott Andrew.
The Journal of etc.
Philadelphia 1803.
Pp.
276278.
The bulk of the material described in the present paper was obtained by the expedition from Cornell University during the summer of 1912 at which time the swamp was entered from the southwestern side and a permanent camp established on Billy's Island located in the centre of the swamp.
From this camp side trips were made from time to time throughout the summer and a fairly accurate idea of the geography and biology of the region was obtained.
Most valuable services were rendered to this party by the Lee family living on Billy's Island the only human inhabitants of the interior of the swamp and practically out of touch with the outside world.
Their primitive mode of living had adapted them to a marvellous degree to the appreciation of the wild life about them and their observations and knowledge of natural phenomena proved to be surprisingly accurate.
The older men and boys were indispensable as guides while the party was in the swamp and on the exit of the party a container was left with them to be filled with specimens which might come to their hands later in the year.
This container full of material chosen with evident care and good judgment was received November 15 1912 and the specimens thus secured proved a valuable addition to those previously collected.
In December 1913 data were obtained on the winter condition of some of the forms here noted.
The list of species here described is of course hardly more than a checklist of those reptiles noted during the two months which the party spent in the Okefinokee and is no doubt very incomplete as regards the extent of the reptilian fauna of the swamp but it is hoped that it will serve as a basis for future work and as an aid to systematic zoologists interested in the forms of the region under discussion.
Acknowledgments are due to Dr. Leonard Stejneger of the United States National Museum for the privilege of examining types in the Museum collection and to Mr. R. W. Bennett and Mr. Cornelius of Fargo Ga. without whose courteous assistance it would have been impossible to have transported our material out of the swamp.
The nomenclature and synonymy here adopted is that of Arthur E. Brown in Generic Types of Nearctic Reptilia and Amphibia  Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia Apr. 1908 pp.
112127.
1915.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
ill Testudinata.
1.
Macroclemmys temminckii Troost.
Plate I fig.
3.
The alligator snapper called by the natives gator terrapin or loggerhead was reported as being common in the Okefinokee but very few specimens were seen by our party.
No adults were collected.
The presence of the alligator snapper in the Okefinokee carries its range eastward to the easternmost Gulf tributary the Suwannee and the former eastern boundary of old West Florida.
Its association here with Chelydra serpentina suggests that the latter may have been an Atlantic coast contribution through the St. Mary's.
This turtle is said to attain a large size in its natural habitat in the lakes of this region and some evidence was secured to bear out this statement.
A specimen about eight inches in length' was captured June 17 and placed in a beegum for safekeeping.
On the return to the spot the next day the turtle had escaped.
Dave Lee stated that he had seen turtles with the head alone as large as the shell of this specimen.
A skull of Macroclemmys temminckii with the lower mandible missing was found on one of the islands and it proved by its measurements that this turtle approaches such a size.
This skull old and much weathered agrees exactly with Boulenger's figure in the arrangement of bones and sutures and in the position of the fossse.
It measures as follows Maximum length 6 inches maximum width 6 inche width between centres of orbital sockets 2 inches diameter of orbit 1 inch distance from eye to snout between openings 1 inch height of upper mandible at anterior hook 2 inches maximum width of upper mandible at posterior angle 4 inches width of nasal opening 1 inch.
In connection with this data a large scale probably from the shell of an alligator snapper was found in the swimming hole at the boat landing on Billy's Island June 9 1912.
This scale is flat thin hard and fanshaped on the upper surface eight radiating longitudinal ridges and numerous close concentric subparallel transverse grooves the under surface smooth and slightly undulating.
The scale is dry and brittle much weathered and inclined to peel on the upper surface and is the cephalic scale of one of the costal series.
Maximum length 5 inches maximum width 5 inches slightly broken on one side at distal angle.
No eggs of this turtle were collected.
 British Museum Catalogue Chelonians 1889 p. 24 fig.
.5.
2.
Chelydra serpentina Linnaeus.
Plate I fig.
5 II fig.
5.
Two young snapping turtles were brought out of the swamp and at the time were not carefully examined but were suppo.3ed to be young of the alligator snapper.
On comparison with similarsized representatives of Chelydra serpentina taken at Ithaca N. Y. they prove to be identical with the northern specimens.
They are without the scalloped anterior margin of M. temminckii young as represented by Agassi z and do not possess the striking papillae of the young of the alligator snapper.
The orbits are directed outwards and upwards as in C. serpentina and wholly unlike the condition in the large skull of M. temminckii secured in the swamp.
Furthermore no supramarginals appear in the carapace.
The specimens are small the larger having a shell 1 inches long by 1 inches wide.
A brief description may be given as follows Carapace grayishblack very rough three distinct ridges the central highest vertebral plates distinctly serrate at edges inclined to overlap each plate roughly bifid posteriorly marginal plates thick narrow edges smooth anteriorly strongly toothed posteriorly.
Plastron acute posteriorly black with white marginal markings.
Head gray skin tuberculate white spot below angle of mandible on each side.
Neck black skin loose and wrinkled.
Legs black unmarked.
Skin of head neck legs and under surface of body gray or black rough and finely tuberculate.
Tail long black spiny above smooth below gradually narrowing to apex.
3.
Cinosternum pennsylvanicum Bosc.
Plate II fig.
3.
It is one of the common turtles of the swamp found loth on land and in the water.
These turtles were often seen in the shallower waters of the lakes and in the ponds on the islands and frequently on the higher portions of the wooded areas where they came to deposit their eggs.
The specimens collected showed practically no variation in structure or coloration and the adult as represented in the Okefinokee fauna may be briefly described as follows Carapace smooth and comparatively high uniform dark brown in color without markings but occasionally with fine obsolete indented lines marginal plates narrow brown above and reddishyellow below with brown markings on under side both extremities of carapace obtusely rounded.
Plastron loosely hinged not completely covering fleshy parts especially posteriorly deeply notched  Natural History of the United States Vol.
II Part III Plate V Nos.
2327. behind reddishyellow with deep brown rectangular grooves at inner and posterior edges of plates interstices between hinges and sutures between plates wide.
Neck long skin loose and much Avrinkled black above sordid white beneath.
Head comparatively large black or brown above occasionally spotted with yellow or greenishyellow on sides uniform white or yellow beneath upper mandible with strong curved blunt hook.
Legs unmarked brownblack claws long strong and sharp.
Tail thick and suddenly acuminate at extremity.
Average length of carapace 3 inches width 2 inches plastron 3 inches in length by 2 inches in width height of shell 1 inches width of head  inch.
The time during which the specimens were collected May and June seemed to be the egglaying season.
A fine large female C. U. No.
6456 was taken on the nest in the act of egglaying June 11 1912 and three eggs were found with the specimen.
The nest was in rotten wood by the side of a dead log and the eggs were deposited at a depth of three inches below the surface of the decayed Avood.
In the stomach of a king snake Ophibolus getulus C. U. No.
6138 taken on Billy's Island June 11 1912 was found one egg of Cinosternum pennsrjlvanicum together with two eggs of Chrysem.ys floridana.
Another king snake C. U. No.
6146 taken on Billy's Island had what was apparently the shells of Cinosternum eggs in its stomach and a third snake of the same species also taken on Billy's Island had in its stomach a large number of crushed and finely broken shells of the same kind of eggs.
Finally Mr. Harper relates how he and Dave Lee stumbled upon a king snake and when they had recovered they found a small Cinosternum digging in the sand  all of which seems strong circumstantial evidence to prove the snake was on hand to scoop the eggs the instant they were laid.
These turtles therefore evidently come up to the woody parts of the islands during this season to deposit their eggs which often furnish food for the snakes and according to the Lees also for other animals of the swamp.
A number of the eggs of this turtle were collected but owing to the evaporation of the liquid from the containers in which they were placed none were preserved in a condition satisfactory for accurate description or measurements.
The eggs were elliptical approximately 30 mm.
long by 15 mm.
in diameter and of a pinkishwhite color.
The shells seem to be slightly more brittle and apparently less granular than those of Chrysemys floridana.
4.
Sternothoerus carina tus Gray.
Two specimens of musk turtles agreeing with each other in every particular of structure and markings were taken in the Okefinokee.
These specimens represent an interesting form of S. carinatus.
They differ from the normal in that the distinct black spots of the head are very obsolete and the black streaks or spots of the carapace usually so prominent are almost absent or only faintly visible.
The gular shield is very small a raised boss or knob.
The carapace is very rough the vertebral plates sharp and inclined to overlap dark brown in color rubbed off to sordid yellow in spots characteristic markings of carapace faint both extremities of carapace obtusely rounded and slightly serrate upper surface distinctly three ridged with central carina prominent plastron almost solid very narrow posteriorly and weakly notched behind uniform yellow in color.
Head dark brown with obsolete black spots no lines above or below eyes snout tapering and conical under jaw with longitudinal black stripes.
Legs uniform black feet broadly webbed claws thin and sharp.
Tail thick and suddenly acuminate at apex.
The larger specimen measures as follows Length of carapace 3f inches width 2 inches length of plastron 2 inches maximum width 2 inches height of shell IJ inches width of head  inch.
No eggs or young of this turtle were collected and no data were secured as to its habits or life history.
5.
Chrysemys floridana LeConte.
Plate II fig.
4  III fig.
6.
This is probably the commonest turtle on the islands of the swamp.
They were often seen onthe sandy banks where they came to deposit their eggs or found sunning themselves on the logs in the lakes and crossways or in the smaller cypress ponds on the islands.
These turtles were active and hard to approach unless taken with great caution from the rear but were numerous and often observed.
They were very common about the Lees' clearing where not infrequently the eggs were plowed up and were also found on Mixon's Hammock in a cleared sandy portion just west of a prominent Indian mound.
About the Lees' clearing the dogs often discovered these turtles and by barking attracted the attention of members of the party.
The dogs in the same way were constantly surprising the turtles on the hammocky edges of the island as the reptiles were returning to the water after laying their eggs.
In endeavoring to arrest the progress of the turtles the dogs usually had recourse to claws and teeth and many of the specimens secured show deep scratches on the shell which are no doubt evidences of such encounters.
Thirteen adults four young and a large number of eggs were brought out of the swamp and numbers were collected which were not preserved.
The month during which most of the specimens were taken June seemed to be the egglaying season.
The eggs usually numbering from twelve to twenty were found in the sand.
One female killed for soup June 4 1912 contained sixteen eggs ready for depositing.
A bear killed May 30 had in its stomach twelve eggs one of which was whole and signs were plentiful to prove that the bears dug these eggs from the sand.
When an egg complement was found exposed or only partly covered by the sand or with the complement very small the natives asserted that the turtle had been disturbed in the midst of egglaying by the attack of bears or had been frightened from the eggs by these animals. A king snake Ophiholus getulus getulus C. U. No.
6147 captured June 26 1912 had fourteen eggs in its stomach.
Another king snake C. U. No.
6140 taken June 3 had thirteen eggs in its stomach.
The stomachs of three other specimens of the same species of snake contained respectively one two and six eggs of Chrysemijs floridana.
It seems yqvj likely that other snakes and perhaps other mammals such as coons find the eggs of this turtle a palatable article of diet.
The eggs were also eaten by the Lees and those eggs which were immature and secured before fertilization had taken place were pronounced by members of our party excellent eating the older eggs seemed bitter.
The natives called this turtle the cooter  and it was also locally kno'n as the hardback cooter. 
The specimens taken showed little variation in structure or markings.
INIost of those captured were females with decidedly convex plastron.
The size of the shells of the mature specimens averaged about 1 foot in length by 11 inches in width and 5 inches in height.
The largest specimen taken No.
6433 measured as follows Length of carapace 13 inches width 12 inches length of plastron 11 inches width 6 inches height of shell 5 inches.
The adult of Chrysemys floridana as found in the Okefinokee may be described as follows Carapace very high and domeshaped blackbrown vertebral plates smooth except anterior and posterior ones which are slightly wrinkled costal plates with deep longitudinal wrinkles on upper  In the middle of May 1912 Mr. Harper reports that the edges of the canal were literally torn up by bears coons etc. which search for cooter's eggs.
threefourths lower fourth with transverse ridges marginal plates smooth or lightly longitudinally rugose the posterior sometimes slightly serrate at joints vertebral plates marked with heavy longitudinal yellow line on each side of middle with fainter crosslines of same color costal plates with broad median yellow line extending outward often bifurcate at distal end and sometimes surrounded with hieroglyphics of wavy lines of the same color marginal plates with distinct median yellow band extending outward rarely fainter bands on each side.
Plastron uniform lemonyellow convex anteriorly deeply notched posteriorly edge of marginal plates with black spots beneath varying in number but usually five on each side.
Head very small eyes large head and neck striped with yellow median longitudinal bifurcated yellowAvhite line on underside of head sometimes with white line inside bifurcation and yellow line on either side.
Legs and feet deep brownblack marked vith yellow stripes.
Claws very long the middle three of the anterior limb longest.
One specimen was taken in which the median stripe of the marginal plates was decorated on each side with a semicircular line followed by a short bar thus agreeing with Holbrook's figure. The young specimens collected lacked the high domelike carapace of the adults.
The shells were almost round and about 1 inches in diameter.
Description.
 Carapace slatecolored averaging threefourths of an inch in height and abruptly keeled in the middle.
Costal plates smooth with distinct median white line sometimes bordered by faint wavy lines of the same color.
Marginal plates smooth edges serrate at joints decorated with median white line followed on each side by semicircular white line and white dot.
Plastron clear light yellow.
Under surface of marginal plates with line of black dots extending entirely around the shell.
Middle three claws of anterior limb not very long as in adults.
From the specimens examined it would appear that the young and immature forms are likely to show the markings of the carapace the decorated marginal plates and the black spots of the under margin of the marginal plates more distinctly than the larger forms.
The eggs collected were uniform in size shape and color.
Shape ovateelliptical color pinkishwhite surface slightly granular shells cjuite soft.
Of 103 eggs measured the average length proved to be  North American Herpetology Vol.
I p. 64 PI.
8 1842.
34.16 mm. and the average diameter 24.15 mm.
 the mode 35x24 mm.
 the maximum length 40.5 mm. and the maximum diameter 27 mm.
 the minimum length 33 mm. and the minimum diameter 22 mm.
6.
Chrysemys reticulatus Bosc.
Three specimens of Chrysemys reticulatus were secured in the Okefinokee two on Billy's Island and one on Honey Island.
The field notes of members of the party do not record any others as having been seen and it is probable that this is one of the less common turtles of the swamp.
The specimens secured agree with the published descriptions and there can be little doubt as to the identity of the species.
The largest specimen which is probably most tjical in all respects save the markings may be described briefly as follows Carapace dull brown thickly covered with fine reticulated grooves each plate with a distinct flat marginal border shell rather high smooth in general outline marginal plates with obsolete median yellow line under side of each marginal plate with black spot sometimes coalesced with that of the neighboring plate.
Plastron smooth reddishyellow median plates with a distinct tinge of red.
Neck very long skin loose black.
Head brown above with faint yellow markings yellow beneath with distinct reticulated brown lines.
Fore legs with wide yellow band in front yellow below feet black beneath claws long.
Under surface of hind legs and tail 3ellow hind legs with alternate black and yellow lines posteriorly tail with two black lines on under side.
Measurements Length of carapace 8 inches width 7 inches length of plastron 6 inches width 4 inches height of shell 3 inches width of head lyginches interorbital space less than f long diameter of the eye orbits distinctly upwards and outwards in direction.
The second specimen differs from the first only in size in haing the carapace somewhat indented and in the darker colors and less conspicuous markings.
In this specimen the lines on the under side of the head are more nearly parallel and the yellow color less evident on the legs.
The under side of the marginals would be wholly without black spots but for three very indistinct ones.
The two spots on the bridge are widely separated.
The smallest of the three specimens was found on Honey Island and differs from the others only in the markings of the carapace and in the more brilliant colors of the body.
The carapace of this specimen is smooth without grooves and beautifully decorated with bright yellow narrow reticulated lines covering the vertebral and costal plates the marginal plates have a distinct median jellow band in some instances this is connected with reticulate lines of vertebral and costal plates.
The plastron is clear lemonyellow with black band at extreme outer edge of abdominal and pectoral plates and on the axillary and inguinal plates.
There is no variation in the pattern of the markings from that of the older and larger specimens but the colors are much more evident.
No data were obtained as to the life history or the habits of this species.
7.
Terrapene Carolina Linn.
One specimen of Terrapene Carolina was taken on Honey Island June 2 1912.
The natives of the swamp call all box turtles lockups and report that they are comparatively numerous but only two specimens were collected during the time our party was in the swamp one Terrapene Carolina and one Terrapene major.
The specimen of Terrapene Carolina taken measured 6 inches in length with a plastron completely closed 5 inches long the total height of the shell 2 inches.
Carapace domeshaped higher behind than in front smooth as to general surface but with slight indentations on the middle vertebral plates entirely covered with irregular dark yellow spots recalling Ditmar's comparison'' of having been spotted with a brush.
At the external margin of the costal plates a few irregular yellow lines extend outward.
The shell shows no keel and the marginal plates are not flared.
The edges of the marginal plates are yellow and the under side of the same plates marked with brown posteriorly.
Plastron uniform yellow interstices between plates brownish.
No eggs or young of this turtle were found and no data obtained as to its life history.
The Lees stated that box turtles were very common in ''The Pocket but no opportunity offered for the investigation of this statement.
8.
Terrapene major Agassiz.
One small specimen of Terrapene major measuring 6 inches in length was taken from The Pocket on June 29 1912.
This species may be distinguished from Terrapene Carolina the only other box turtle taken in the swamp by the flaring posterior marginal plates the blunt keel behind the bright yellow median  The Reptile Book p. 59. line extending the entire lengtli of the carapace and the groups of radiating yellow lines marking the costal plates.
The carapace is chocolatebrown in color with characteristic radiating yellow lines on the upper surface of the costal plates and subparallel yellow bands extending outward on the external margins each plate is marked with regular concentric subrectangular grooves.
Plastron closed 5f inches in length and 3 inches in width uniform yellow in color with a reddishbroAvn spot on the external posterior angle of each plate all plates showing parallel grooves along the median line and in the case of the abdominal plates these grooves make a right angle at the median anterior corner of the plate and extend laterad reaching the margin.
Under side of marginal plates yellow with irregular markings of brown.
.
In the one specimen taken the posterior end of the shell is somewhat mutilated.
9.
Platypeltis ferox Schweigger.
Plate I figs.
1 2 24 II fig.
6.
This species is common throughout the swamp.
Adults young and eggs were collected and the field notes show that this turtle was recorded from Billy's Island Honey Island Floyd's Island Mixon's Hammock Billy's Lake Minne Lake and Sweet Water.
This species is doubtless to be found in all parts of the Okefinokee and is especially abundant in those places where the water is deep and the bottom soft.
The natives claim that softshelled turtles are to be found wherever there are alligators and this fact seems to be borne out by the observations made on these turtles.
On May 31 1912 an attempt was made to seine a  'gator hole on the Honey Island Prairies.
Before seining Bryant Lee went over the hole grunting a method locally used to start the aUigators which animals it is claimed will respond to this peculiar vocal accomplishment and show their presence by rows of bubbles on the surface by which they may be followed.
In this instance the supposed alligator was pursued for some distance only to prove to be a large Platypeltis.
It is not improbable that the deep secluded 'gator holes may furnish a favored retreat for this turtle whose ability to defend itself by its powerful mandibles and snakelike bite is well known and may be sufficient protection against the alligator itself.
According to the Lees this turtle is very active and can use its legs to a remarkable degree especially wdiile in the water and plenty of evidence was secured to show that its legs and knifeedged beak were no mean weapons.
A captured specimen a foot or more in length which was kept around the camp for several days showed a surprising ability to dig through the sand and could jump forward practically its own length.
On account of the size and weight of this turtle it was impracticable to carry a large series out of the Okefinokee with the limited means of conveyence afforded to the expedition but sufficient data were secured from the large number of specimens observed to give a fairly accurate account of their appearance habits and life history.
A number of heads skulls carapaces young turtles and eggs both mature and embryonic were collected and brought out of the swamp and notes were made on the adults in their native environment.
The adult turtle may be described as follows from an average specimen taken June 12 1912 on Billy's Island and preserved as C. U. No.
6471.
Carapace chocolatecolored with obsolete irregular patches of black strongly tuberculate at anterior end with faint subparallel longitudinal rows of tubercles extending the entire length of the vertebral and costal regions of the carapace and becoming more prominent and pronounced at the posterior end marginal area soft and flabby especially at posterior half.
Plastron smooth yellowishwhite extending well forward and somewhat exceeding the carapace almost entirely covering the fleshy parts anteriorly narrower behind and leaving much of the posterior part of the body exposed.
Head comparatively small smooth brown markings very faint snout developed into a long fleshy proboscis lips fleshy.
Tail thick vent close to end extremity of tail suddenly' acuminate beyond vent.
Measurements Carapace 15 inches long 11 inches wide plastron 11 inches long 10 inches wide height of shell 5 inches width of head 2 inches.
The heads were cut off from some of the larger specimens and preserved when it was impossible to carry the entire turtle.
Such a head representing one of the largest of the turtles captured No.
6473 measures 3 inches in maximum width 2 inches in height  inch between eyes 3 inches from snout to angle of mandible and shows a proboscis  inch in length.
The head is brown above with white on snout below the eyes and at edges of mandibles and yellowishwhite on the entire under side.
The e3es are small and as will be noticed from the measurements near together.
The head is strongly tapering and the opening of the mouth well inferior.
The lips are fleshy with loose skin and the jaws large and strong.
This head was from a large female taken June 22 1912 which contained 49 embryonic eggs in an advanced stage of development.
The complete skull of a softshelled turtle with cartilages of mandibles still attached was found on Billy's Island June 19 1912.
This skull agrees with Boulenger's short description and in all general features with Hegner's figureand while much weathered shows the bones and sutures in excellent shape.
It is remarkable for the high supraoccipital ridge the two squamosal ridges being damaged and for the very flat temporal region.
This skull measures 3f inches in length 2 inches in wicUh  inch between eyes diameter of sockets  inch distance from orbital to nasal opening f inch length of lower mandible 2 inches width of lower mandible at posterior angle 2 inches height of lower mandible at middle  inch distance between orbit and auditory cavity f inch distance from orbit to margin of upper mandible  inch maximum height of head including both mandibles If inches.
Several carapaces of Platypeltis ferox much weathered and usually more or less mutilated at the edges were found on Billy's Island.
Such a carapace shows the upper surface white and finely reticulate with pits prominent and the sutures distinct.
Nine neural plates are present the anterior very broad and without corresponding costals on either side i.e. is a nuchal in form rectangular about twice as long as wide.
Seven costal plates on each side parallel and regular and extending transversely across the carapace.
The marginal area appears brown and leathery the plates fused.
The under surface of the carapace is smooth and yellowwhite.
The ribs are prominent and imbedded in the plates of the carapace eight on each side extending more or less radiately from the vertebral column.
This column is likewise fused with the carapace and presents nine vertebrae.
One carapace with nine neural plates had eight not seven pairs of costal plates the last two pairs meeting on the median line where the neurals are absent.
These carapaces are about 9 inches in length 8 inches in breadth and 2 inches in height.
A good series of young softshelled turtles were collected in the swamp and preserved.
These range in size from If to 3inches in length and show plainly the brilliant characteristic markings of the carapace especially when the shells are wet.
The smallest specimens agree well with Ditmar's figure.
The carapace is grayblack strongly marked with irregularly  Brit.
Mus.
Cat. p. 2.59.
1College Zoology p. 530 fig.
440 from Zittel. 
Reptile Book p. 76 PI.
26. placed round black spots.
Vertebral and costal regions finely longitudinally rugose with broken lines of linear tubercles anterior tubercles very small.
The marginal area smooth brown and broadly edged with white.
Plastron soft slatecolored a white spot on each side of the median line  plastron extends far forward exceeding the carapace anteriorly short behind leaving posterior fleshy parts exposed.
Head neck and under parts of body black.
Neck long skin loose and much wrinkled.
Snout long white beneath white spot at base of snout with white line from this spot to each eye and white line at edge of mandibles.
As the specimens become older the gayly colored markings of the carapace become less distinct and have disappeared on turtles which have attained a length of 6 inches.
The anterior tubercles of the shell become better developed and the whole carapace rougher.
The plastron grows lighter in color and the head uniformly darker with the markings obsolete.
A small specimen of a young softshelled turtle was found in the stomach of a water moccasin Ancistrodon piscivorus No.
6214 taken late in the summer.
Very likely while in this softshelled fleshy state these turtles furnish an acceptable addition to the food of the larger snakes and perhaps to other animals of the swamp.
Eggs of Platypeltis ferox were easily secured.
They were usually found in the sandy fields and occasionally the turtles were captured at the places of oviposition.
The eggs were generally deposited in two or three inches of sand in some place where the surface of the earth was warmed by the direct rays of the sun.
One complement of twentytwo eggs was discovered June 26 on Floyd's Island in which the eggs were uncovered.
This was probably clue however to the fact that the turtle had been in some manner frightened before the egglaying process was completed.
The eggs are almost exactly spherical averaging 31 mm.
in diameter almost white somewhat brittle surface slightly granular and shells very thin.
A number of complements of embryonic eggs at various stages of development were taken from turtles and brought out for study.
These eggs are bright orange colored becoming lighter as they mature and are practically spherical.
They vary in size from 15 mm.
to 32 mm.
in diameter with soft indented skins smooth and fragile.
In one specimen of Platypeltis No.
6484 were found twenty eggs graduating from very small bright orange ovules to one fully developed white egg 31 mm.
in diameter seemingly ready for depositing.
According to the data secured it would appear that the egglaying season for this turtle is represented by the months of June and July.
The young turtles feed on fish and frogs and according to the natives the larger specimens devour also such water fowl as are unfortunate enough to be taken unaware by these reptiles.
They frequent the deepest parts of the streams and lakes but come out to the sandy portions of the islands to deposit their eggs.
They are vicious active and are among the largest of the Reptilia of the Okefinokee.
Lacertilia.
10.
Anolis carolinensis Cuvier.
Common throughout the higher portions of the swamp.
Most common on the islands but seen also on bushes in the swamp proper.
Recorded on Billy's Island Gallberry Island The Pocket Honey Island Mixon's Hammock Minne Lake Islands in the crossway between Billy's Island and Gallberry Island and on the trail from Billy's Island to Minne Lake Islands.
Found chiefly on large bushes and small deciduous trees where it dodged around the limbs at the approach of the collector.
This species is quite active and adept at climbing.
The Okefinokee specimens are practically uniform in size and structure.
Several of the specimens had suffered the loss of part of the tail but the measurements of body parts showed little variation.
The average length of the body to vent was 50 mm. and of the tail about 90 mm.
In life the usual color of the dorsal surface of the body and tail was light green the ventral surface almost white except the belly which was blue or bluish.
The alcoholic specimens show the dorsal colors ranging from slategray to dark bluegreen with the ventral surface of the head throat and breast showing shades of pink with minute dark spots in longitudinal rows and the throat often having a loose reddish fold.
The belly ranges through various shades of gray and blue with the vent and under surface of the hind legs lighter.
The tail is uniformly bluegreen below.
The scale and plate arrangement proved to be practically constant.
The dorsal head ridges in the smaller specimens were sometimes more or less indistinct but generally showed 11 to 15 plates.
The canthus rostralis uniformly consisted of six plates the upper labials of 10 to 12 the lower labials of 11 to 13.
The nostrils appear on a line between the first and second superior labials and above the canthus rostralis.
The Jatter is always well developed and prominent.
The rostral plate is very broad.
The lower jaw has no median symphyseal plate the first infralabials of the two sides meeting on the median line.
No data were secured which would give any information regarding the breeding habits of the species in the swamp.
On December 22.
1914 Dr. Bradley found a small shriveled specimen of Anolis carolinensis in a pitcher plant.
From a botanical standpoint it would be interesting to know whether this plant is able to capture forms as large as this lizard.
Incidently it may be noted that this was the only lizard seen by Dr. Bradley on this trip and it would appear that the lizards are not commonly out at this season of the year.
11.
Sceloporus undulatus Latrielle.
Figs.
1 2.
Aljundant throughout the higher and drier portion of the Okefinokee and called by the natives scaly hzard.
Most common on the sandy pine lands where they seem to prefer the fallen timber logs a.nd stumps and always to be found around fences and piles of cut wood.
Very active and like many of the other lizards difficult to secure without the loss of some portion of the tail.
The specimens taken proved to be fairly uniform in size the largest measuring 155 mm.
in total length and the smallest 122 mm.
In the comparative measurements the figures show a pronounced agreement.
The length to vent is slightly less than onehalf the total length the length of the fore leg almost exactly equal to the distance from the anterior end of the head to the axilla the hind foot about onehalf the length of the hind leg and the width of the head about equal to the length of the fore foot.
The colors are somewhat variable.
The dorsal surface is usually grayishblack sometimes a brilliant black.
The undulating crossbands are often very faint or obsolete when distinct they are generally 10 or 11 in number with the white markings prominent.
The ventral surface of the body is yellowishwhite with numerous dark spots in more or less regular rows.
Down the median ventral line these spots run together to form a longitudinal stripe which in all of the specimens from the swamp is quite prominent.
Superimposed on the spotted graywhite body color may be found patches of black or blue the latter usually on the throat and sides of the belly.
Occasionally the throat shows on each side a brilliant light llue.
In a few specimens the ventral surface of the head and belly appears brilliant black.
The breast and pelvic region is almost invariably sordid yellowwhite with the characteristic dark spots.
The femoral pores are always present ranging in number from thirteen to fifteen and sometimes very prominent on the smnmit of a high ridge.
The plates of the head are clearly defined and easily distinguished but in some regions most irregular and complicated in arrangement.
The specimens usually show five supraorbitals in three cases six separated from the median plates of the head by a single row of small scales and bordered externally by two or three rows of superciliaries.
The usual arrangement of these superciliaries is in two irregular rows with occasionally one or two plates of a third row.
The labial plates appear very uniform the superior row containing five plates and the inferior six.
In one or two of the larger specimens this was increased to 67.
The plates of the median dorsal region of the head however present a most interesting variation.
It is of interest to note that no two of the specimens taken were alike as to the number and arrangement of the plates of this region although all were collected in the same locality within a period of one month.
A chscussion of these plates is rendered difficult by the fact that the descriptions by various authors differ widely in terminology and it is not easy to determine upon consistent names for the series of plates which may be found.
The occipital is large and polygonal and sometimes subdivided Nos.
6408 6414 6415.
It contains the pineal eye which is always present.
This plate is bordered by a row of smaller plates ranging in number from four to seven cf.
Nos.
6413 6417 and 6418.
Anterior to the occipital in a small single plate sometimes adjacent No.
6410 and sometimes separated by the two anterior plates of the bordering row No.
6411.
The next plate anteriorly is a large pentagonal or hexagonal plate slightly anterior to the middle of the eye.
The next row may consist of two or of three plates.
If of three the middle one is small cf.
Nos.
6402 6406 and 6413.
The next plate is large and may be subdivided to form an irregular transverse row.
The single condition is shown in Nos.
6405 6406 6407 6414 and 6415 the subdivided condition in Nos.
6409 and 6412.
Anterior to this plate and between it and the internasals there may or may not appear a row of plates ' when present usually three  more or less regular and usually pentagonal.
This row is shown in Nos.
6405 6406 6407 6415 6417 and 6418.
The two internasals are comparatively large very irregular in shape and seldom bilaterally symmetrical.
They are almost directly above the nostrils.
They may be subdivided No.
6410 126 Mar. 6408 6411 6402 6414 6413 6406 6415 6417 6405 6410 6407 6412 6409 6404 Fig.
1.
 Sceloporus undulalus Latr.
Plates of the head.
6403 1915.
127 or one may be subdivided and the other not Nos.
6408 and 6411.
Between the internasals and the rostrum appear two plates usually unsymmetrical and apparently twisted out of position.
Their longest diameter may be transverse No.
6412 or longitudinal No.
6413 and there is sometimes found a third plate in the row No.
6409.
In spite of the fact however that all of these median plates of the head may be so irregular so twisted from a bilateral condition etA OttvyXfcX 6416 HviPotKttlcal Fig.
2.
 Sceloporus undulalus Latr.
Plates of the head.
SO confusing in arrangement and so liable to subdivision it might be pointed out that the series of rows is comparatively uniform.
The hypothetical arrangement of the most simple condition might be represented by the figure fig.
2 and from this arrangement all of the variations shown could be developed.
Whether such a simple arrangement would represent the most generalized form or not would be a matter of conjecture.
12.
Ophisaurus ventralis Linn.
Fig.
3.
Three specimens of Ophisaurus ventralis were taken in the Okefinokee.
The Lees however report that this lizard is not uncommon and call it the ''grass snake giving as an explanation of the name the fact that they have noticed that its locomotion appeared difficult except in grassy places.
They apply the name joint snake to an entirely different reptile which they describe as having joints around the body and which may be Rhineura floridana although no specimens were seen of this form.
The three specimens collected were taken in the grass on Billy's Island but no data were secured as to their life history or habits.
The two smallest specimens are quite different from the third and largest and may be discussed first.
These specimens measured 128 Mar. respectively 590 mm.
and 355 mm.
in length the chief difference being in the length of the tails.
The longer of the two measured 162 mm.
to vent and the smaller 127 mm. while the distances from tip of rostrmn to eye and to ear in both specimens were identical.
The head of the longer specimen was 1 mm.
broader than that of the other.
The two specimens agreed in scalation and in color.
The dorsal surface was light rather cinnamonbrown with three very dark brown longitudinal stripes two lateral and one dorsal the dorsal being slightly fainter than the lateral.
The sides of the head and of the anterior part of the body appear spotted  the entire ventral surface of body and tail uniform lemonyellow.
The dorsal rows of scales of which there are sixteen are separated from the ten ventral rows by a distinct groove.
The preanal scales are slightly larger than the abdominal.
The dorsal scales of the body are carinate and are wider than long.
The color and stripes therefore agree with Cope's description of variation 11.
J.
 64 85 Fig.
3.
 Ophisaurus ventrnlis Linn.
The plates of the head show the interfrontonasals separated from the frontal by the two prefrontals which are in contact on the median line and thus agree with Cope's I. C.' lut in addition show two interfrontonasals one anterior to the other as in the subspecies compressus Ophisaurus ventralis compressiis Cope.
These specimens also agree with compressus in having but two rows of plates between the labials and the canthal row in having two large superior labials touching the orbit below and in having the caudal plates at the extremity of the tail longer than wide  characters which are given as peculiar to compressus.
The coloration however does not agree with that given for compressus and the body does not  Rep. U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1898 p. 497.
15 Loc.
cit. p. 496. show in the least the typical compression which distinguishes that subspecies.
In coloration these two specimens apparently agree with U. S. Nat.
Mus.
Cat. No.
10581 which Cope said restrained him from regarding the form compressus as a distinct species.
It is nevertheless interesting to note the gradation since it makes these forms from the swamp seem to stand between the typical ventraUs and its unique subspecies the standing of which may be subject to question.
The largest of the three specimens is quite distinct in color and form although found in exactly the same locality and may be briefly characterized as follows Body very stout and thick dark brown above with many small white spots irregularly placed on the head and in more or less regular longitudinal and transverse rows or lines on the dorsal surface of the body and tail giving the whole a checkered appearance.
The stripes are obsolete.
Under surface of body sordid yellowwhite the tail clear lemonyellow beneath.
There is but one interfrontonasal and the superior labials do not touch the orbit.
Superior labials ten in number.
Length 525 mm. maximum width 20 mm. length to vent 265 mm.
13.
Cnemidophorus sexlineatus Linn.
Plate II fig.
2.
Apparently common throughout the islands of the swamp.
Certainly one of the most common lizards on Billy's Island.
Also numerous on Honey Island and Minne Lake Islands.
This lizard in spite of its swiftness was easier to secure in the field than the other common species on account of the fact that it did not possess the disconcerting habit of dashing along fences and through the underbrush.
It is locally known as the racenag a name which like many of the other names used by the inhabitants of the swamp was strikingly descriptive since the lizard is so remarkably active and scurries over the ground with surprising speed when disturbed.
It appeared most abundantly in the plowed fields where the Lees had planted corn peas and goobers and since these plowed fields are very sandy the common name of sand lizard or swift is quite appropriate.
They were commonly seen among the goober vines where their colors blended well with the lights and shadows under the leaves.
These lizards seemed to prefer the bare furrows for sunning themselves and in the raised earth between the furrows iiad dug their holes into which they darted when disturbed.
These burrows extended in irregular directions to a depth of 8 or 10 inches 9 which made the digging up of the hzards a comparatively easy task.
Between the plowed furrows also in holes from 4 to 12 inches deep were deposited the eggs usually four or five together.
The eggs were about 16 mm.
in length by 10 mm.
in greatest diameter ellipsoidal comparatively soft semitranslucent and almost salmoncolored not smooth or shining but slightly rough and subpubescent.
Little data were secured on the life history or the breeding habits but from the fact that eggs were secured at this time  June  and .also the fact that several of the specimens taken showed the blue abdomen characteristic of the breeding male it is evident that this month represents at least a part of the breeding and egglaying season.
Since moreover the reptilian developmental period is comparatively long the bulk of ovulation must have been practically over or some of the females taken would have been found with eggs which was not the case.
Specimens of C sexlineatus were found in the stomachs of two blacksnakes Zamenis constrictor constrictor C. U. Nos.
6157 and 6155 a fact which shows that this species of lizard like many others shares the fate of providing food for the larger reptiles of the swamp.
The variations of the specimens taken are especially interesting from the fact that all those described are from one locality and were all taken within a period of approximately a month so that the variations cannot be explained by season or habitat.
A number of striking differences may be observed in the Okefinokee forms as compared with Cope's description and figure which were used as a basis for study.
It should be noted that the figure shown by this author p. 594 does not agree with the description pp.
594596.
This is particularly true in the discussion of the head and anal regions.
For example the figure cf .
Cat.
No.
4878 U. S. N. M. shows a small plate between the frontoparietals while no mention is made of such a structure in the text the figure shows seven supralabial plates while the text notes five four anal plates are figured while the description states that three is the correct number.
On the whole the specimens examined conform much more closely to the text of Cope than to his figure.
The following variations are to be found in the Okefinokee specimens these variations being chiefly in scale and plate arrangement rather than in size or comparative measurements although none were collected in the swamp which were as long as 235 mm. the 16 Rept.
U. S. Nat.
Museum 1898 pp.
593598. length of No.
9256 U. S. N. M. which is given by Cope as tyiDical.
A table of measurements of various parts of the body shows a close agreement in the relative sizes of body parts.
The plates of the head agree fairly well in number but differ greatly in size and shape.
One of the most variable of the plates is the first supraorbital which may be entire cleft parted or completely divided cutting off a small caudolateral portion as a separate plate.
The frontoparietals are usually subequal to the parietals but are sometimes smaller seldom larger.
The frontal is usually pentagonal in shape but the surface varies from a deeply threeridged condition which is the most common through an obsoletely threeridged surface to one practically flat or slightly convex.
The interparietal plate is sometimes bifid sometimes flat but oftenest high at the centre and at the edge wdth a submarginal depression or moat which is well defined.
Posterior to the parietals and interparietal the plates are most irregular and variable.
In some specimens one or two distinct rows of plates are found in this region with from five to eight plates in a row in others only one welldefined row is present and this is often interspaced with very small plates or scales more often all of the plates of this region are small and indefinite in arrangement.
The superciliaries of the orbit vary from three to six the usual number appearing to be five.
Of these the anterior two are carinate and the others are convex or flat.
The inferior orbitals range from three to five the anterior and posterior being usually small.
The superior labials are generally five in number one specimen examined showed seven two had six and one four.
One of the most constant of the characters of the species seemed to be the femoral pores of which fifteen were found in the most typical specimens the range being from thirteen to seventeen but other numbers than fifteen appearing very rarely.
The anal plates on the other hand were decidedly variable.
In the majority of cases these plates agree with Cope's description three large scales placed in a triangle two posterior to the other and with smaller scales behind.
This arrangement seems to be typical but even in the comparatively small series from the Okefinokee one specimen was found with only one anal plate four with two  one posterior to the other  one with three in a longitudinal row and several showed a wide granular space between the plates and the vent.
In other regions the plates are quite uniform and agree well with the arrangements noted by Cope.
The color is quite constant and the stripes persist through life never becoming obsolete.
A faint brownish band sometimes double is often found extending down the median dorsal line of the body.
The scales of the fore leg hind leg and thighs are practically without variation in the specimens studied.
It might be noted that in many of the specimens recorded from the Okefinokee the plate arrangement agrees much more nearly with the figure and description of Cnemidophorus septemvitattus Cope than with C. sexlineatus.
This is noticeably true of the anal plates the general head structure and in some cases the femoral pores.
In fact if the median dorsal longitudinal line which sometimes appears were more distinct some of these specimens would seem to merge into the typical septemvitattus.
None of these specimens however are as large as the type of septemvitattus No.
2872 U. S. N. M. nor do any show the colors of the unique specimen of Cope's species which appears quite distinct resembling western forms in general appearance and coloration although the locality given for the type specimen is denied by Van Denburgh and the species does not seem to be as firmly established as might be wished.
14.
Lygosoma laterale Say.
Not common.
Only eight were taken in the swamp and but a few others were seen.
Of the eight specimens collected one was found under the bark of a log one at the edge of a small stream almost in the water one under leaves in the woods and the rest on the ground in open places.
This species seemed comparatively slow of movement and was not particularly difficult to capture.
The specimens showed no peculiarities of markings or of plate arrangement.
The colors of the alcoholic specimens seemed to be more or less obscured but the dorsal surface usually retained the characteristic bronze sheen and the lateral stripes although somewhat faded were distinct.
The ventral surface of the head and pectoral region was normally yellowishwhite the throat and vent lighter the belly and under side of tail blue.
The following note taken of a living specimen in the field gives perhaps the most accurate color description Six rows ventral scales yellow from vent to fore limbs chin and gular region pinkishwhite  a row of yellow scales above yellow ventral rows on either side then five rows of darkedged grayish scales followed by a lateral black stripe seven rows of reddishbrown scales across the back.
Reddishbrown of back marked off from black lateral stripe by a thin reddish line. 
Occasional papers.
V. Cal.
Acad of Sciences 1897 p. 133 note.
The specimens were remarkably uniform in both comparative and in actual measurements the differences being chiefly in general body and tail lengths rather than in variation in size of limbs or in distances between fixed points.
In the discussion of the plates and scales of this species it should be noted that Cope's description is most unsatisfactory the terminology being confused if not actually inaccurate.
The description given by G. A. Boulenger in his Cat.
Lizards Brit.
Mus. 1887 Vol.
Ill p. 263 proved the most useful and accurate.
In the Okefinokee specimens the dorsal plates of the head are absolutely uniform and may be described as follows Eostral short internasal pentagonal nostrils piercing nasals no supranasals frontal in contact anteriorly with internasal and two prefrontals widely separated posteriorly from interparietal by two broad frontoparietals interparietal kiteshaped much longer than wide parietals 2 supraorbitals 4 superciliaries 7 superior labials 7.
Little data were obtainable regarding the life history of Lygosoma laterals.
No eggs were found.
13.
Plestiodon quinquelineatus Linn.
Fig.
4.
Common throughout the higher portions of the swamp and on the islands.
Seemed to be particularly fond of deserted buildings and chimneys where any such structures occurred and often found aloHg fences.
The larger forms were called by the local names of redheaded scorpion and redheaded lizard while the smaller striped forms seemed to have no common local name being probably confused by the natives with Cnemidophorus sexlineatus Linn.
Plestiodon quinquelineatus was seldom seen on the ground or on the trees but was often found stretched out in the sun on dead logs stumps or fallen timber.
Although this was one of the most common of the lizards noticed in the Okefinokee comparatively few specimens were collected on account of the fact that their habits made it a difficult matter to secure them since they clashed into crevices and holes or darted along the fences or into the brush on the least provocation.
They were abundant in the deserted log buildings on Billy's Island and were seen in large numbers in and around the old abandoned house on Mixon's Hammock where they scurried over the ruined floor and over the decayed timbers of the walls only to dart into the cracks 18 Rept.
U. S. Nat.
Museum 1898 p. 622.
134 Mar. at the approach of the collector.
In fact had the object been the securing of tails rather than lizards the collecting would have been far more successful since the small bluetailed form particularly was prone to leave a tail wriggling in the collector's hand while its owner scurried to safety.
Enough specimens were collected however to show practically all of the stages usually recorded from the small black brilliantlymarked form with the clearly bifurcated median stripe to the large brown redheaded stage with the plain brownish coloration broad head and obsolete bands The specimens naturally varied much in size as well as in coloration the smallest taken being 92 mm.
long while the largest measured 237 mm.
The coloration of the ventral surface of the body and head seemed to vary according to the colors shown by the dorsal region.
For example in the distinctly fivelined form in which the dorsal 6333 63 39 6336 63 32 63 34 63 35 63 38 Fig.
4.
 Plestiodon quinquelineatus Linn.
surface was nearly black the ventral surface of the head and throat was usually tinged or mottled with blue while in the older brown specimens with the brown dorsum and red head the sides of the head generally showed a tinge of orange and the white of the under surface was permeated with red or yellow rather than with blue.
The belly in both forms was usually bluish with the plates around the vent approaching white.
Although the size varied considerably the relative length of the body parts was remarkably constant except in the width of the head which is of course unusually broad in the older males.
The scale and plate arrangement of the Okefinokee specimens varied but little.
The supraorbitals usually showed six plates the superior marginal plates of the orbit nine of which the middle three or four were often very narrow the superior labials seven or eight the most posterior being the largest.
All of the specimens but one however showed two large distinct occipital plates rather than the irregular arrangement figured by Cope. One specimen  the largest  agreed with Cope's specimen No.
9234 U. S. N. M. in this respect.
A variation was also noted in the plates of the mental region.
Cope's figure ibid.
shows two unpaired plates posterior to the mental.
Of the specimens taken in the swamp just half of the number collected conformed to this arrangement while the other half showed only one unpaired plate between the mental and the first pair of inferior labials.
It can hardly escape the notice of the herpetologist that these peculiarities the single postmental plate and the two occipital plates here noted as variations of P. quinquelineatus are except for the postnasal among the chief structural characters usually given for the species P. anthracinus Baird and the single or double postmental enters into Cope's four main divisions of the genus.
Normally one would expect two postmentals in P. quinquelineatus and it so proves by examination of a large series of extraOkefinokee specimens from other parts of southeastern United States but this single postmental in the Okefinokee specimens is not limited to small forms as are most of the supposed species with single postmentals.
The largest redheaded specimen No.
6339 has this character and another goodsized individual has only one postmental but there is on one side of this plate the merest beginning of a suture to suggest where the subdivision might come if it were to be.
We suppose Cope would be obliged to make these postnasal  one postmental specimens members of his first division in which he places his Bermudan species E. lofigirostris but we could hardly grant such a solution and this restricted collection of Okefinokee skinks prompts a doubt of the actual rank of E. longirostris and possibly of E. anthracinus and E. pluvialis or in other words we have our specimens referable to two of Cope's four main groups for the genus and if the postnasal character be proven variable this P. quinquelineatus may yet offer variants referable to the other two divisions.
Certainly the status of the species of Plestiodon is in a most unsatisfactory state at the present time.
The species P. quinquelineatus ranges through a wide series of coloration during life particularly as pertains to the stripes and markings.
The same bands appear in some specimens as are found in P. anthracinus vnih.
a difference only in colors and brilliancy.
Since the structural plate characters overlap as has been noted 13 Rept.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1898 p. 634 fig.
125. above the suggestion can hardly be avoided that if environment and cHmate be considered as affecting markings it may lead to a reconsideration of the value of such a basis for specific distinctions.
An interesting illustration of regeneration was found in one of the specimens taken No.
6339 in which the tail had been injured 75 mm.
from the vent and a new tail 65 mm.
long regenerated.
The old tail however still persisted and projected at almost right angles to a distance of 10 mm.
with a small shriveled stump on the end suggestive of a spine or barb.
Several of the specimens of Plestiodon quinquelineatus were infested with red mites Acarina which appeared attached under the fore legs.
One individual had eight of these parasites under one fore leg and twelve under the other.
Crocodilia.
16.
Alligator mississippiensis Daudin.
Plate II fig.
1.
The alligator was found to be extremely common throughout the Okefinokee and after the novelty of watching their interesting habits had worn off no particular attention was paid to them by members of the party.
Alligators were constantly being seen in all parts of the swamp and a short trip in any direction from Billy's Island usually resulted in the noting of several specimens.
Outside of a few shot for their skins and those killed for food no adults were collected as it would have been entirely impracticable to have transported their heavy bodies out of the swamp.
A number of young were taken and of these a half dozen or more were preserved.
A trip down Billy's Lake from Billy's Island to Mixon's Hammock was always the occasion for more or less sport in endeavoring to approach the alligators as they lay on the banks in following their courses as they swam across the placid stretch of water leaving broad ripples in their wake or in listening to the interesting vocal gymnastics of the Lees as they endeavored by ''grunting to induce a specimen to rise to the surface.
The reptiles were often seen sunning themselves in the rank masses of vegetation which lined the shores and were not infrequently surprised at very close quarters while they were swimming.
Whoever has heard the bellowing of ''gators on Big Water or on Floyd's Island Prairie will ever remember it as one of his most distinct memories of the swamp and need ask for little else more blood stirring or thrilling upon first acquaintance.
The Lees claim the young ones can bellow nearly as loud as the older ones and that they distinguish them by the intervals which are much shorter in the 3'ounger ones.
Mr. Harper saw a fivefoot aUigator at the north edge of the swamp with his jaws tied with a cord which for several days it could not break.
liater he observed that Bryant Lee could hold shut the two jaws of a wounded gator.
Since these animals were found in every part of the swamp no mention of particular localities is of importance.
They were most abundant perhaps in Billy's Lake in Floyd's Island and Honey Island Prairies and in the head waters of the Suwanee River. 
'Gator holes however were to be seen in all waters deep enough to afford seclusion for the animals.
These holes ranged in size from a few feet across to large areas extending from 25 to 75 yards in diameter.
Throughout the swamp and in the prairies also were long open tracts in which no waterlilies grew and these were pronounced by the natives to be  'gator trails.
The methods of hunting the alligator as practised by the Leesand other inhabitants of the region consist mainly of going out at night in small boats and locating the animals by means of a lampfastened to the head of one hunter in the bow of the boat.
Another hunter in the stern paddles or poles and uses the sharp end of the push pole to stick the body after the animal has been shot and has sunk to the bottom.
According to these hunters who every year take but a large number of skins the eyes of the small alligators appear red by the light thus used while those of the large specimens are yellow.
The hunter carrying the light swings his head from side to side through an arc of 180 degrees and when an alligator is sighted shoots it by the light of the lamp on his head.
The common supposition that the skin of an alligator will turn the bullet of a gun is of course unfounded.
Since however only the head of the animal is usually exposed when it is in the water they are commonly shot through the eyes.
The hunters generally use a shotgun loaded with buckshot.
That a large number of alligators are annually secured in this manner is evidenced by the fact that the fields of the Lees are strewn with the skeletons and dorsal strips of skin which have been thrown away after each expedition.
Only the ventral part of the skin is saved the upper portions being too thick and spiny to admit of the primitive methods of tanning and therefore the crest and dorsal scales are not retained.
Plenty of evidence was secured to prove that the alligator is a formidable antagonist when in the water.
The powerful tail is the chief weapon of defence and with it the animal can deal a terrifie blow.
On June 13 1912 a largesized alligator was seen to slowly sink below the surface as several members of the party in a small boat were making a trip on Minne Lake.
Bryant Lee grunted the animal to the surface where it was shot but not killed.
It rose within a foot or two of the boat and performed a most remarkable series of spinning movements revolving rapidly on its tail with its body directly upright and the head out of the water.
Several shots and repeated blows of the paddle were required before it finally sank.
The alligators of the Okefinokee showed no variation so far as our observations went from the ordinary form of A. mississippiensis which has been sufficiently well described by various authors to make a description in this record unnecessary.
The young which were preserved agree also with the published descriptions and are most brilliantly marked in the smaller specimens.
As the animal increases in age the fifteen transverse yellow bands become fainter and the dorsal crest more pronounced.
In the very young specimens the dorsal tubercles of the neck are entirely absent.
No nests of eggs were found but a number of eggs were taken from the bodies of those killed.
In one specimen No.
6493 were found twenty mature eggs ready for depositing.
These eggs have completely formed shells which are thin and soft not brittle and grajdshwhite in color with a granular coating which rubs off on handling.
The average length of these eggs is 3 inches and the average diameter If inches.
From a female 8 feet long taken on Billy's Lake June 11 1912 were taken 42 embryonic eggs ranging in size from J to If inches in diameter almost spherical and of a dark orange color.
The skin of these eggs is soft and smooth and covered with shreds of connective tissue.
With this female was a large male about 11 feet long.
Both the eggs and the flesh of the alligator are eaten by the inhabitants of the swamp and the tails of the young proved to be a very acceptable article of diet.
The meat is firm and white and in taste somewhat resembles that of pike.
One alligator was taken by Mr. John Needham on Billy's Lake in December 1913 but this was the only specimen seen on the trip made at that time.
Evidently however the alligators do not entirely disappear even during that season of the year.
17.
Crocodilus americanus Laurenti.
No crocodiles were found in the Okefinokee.
Nevertheless there is a persistent idea throughout the region of the swamp that these animals have been seen in its waters and are still occasionally to be encountered although the evidence offered is very meagre and the descriptions given of the socalled crocodiles are far from satisfactory.
The natives describe the crocodile as being much darker in color than the alligator and state that in the crocodile the upper jaw is movable instead of the lower.
This latter notion it may be observed is common throughout this part of the country and is insisted upon by many hunters although the basis for the idea is n3t evident.
On the other hand the chief points of scientific distinction between the two animals is never touched upon by those who profess to have seen the crocodile and even such striking differences as the longer snout and the more active movements of the latter animal appear never to have been noticed.
Bryant Lee states that crocodiles have been taken in the region around Cow House but that he has never seen one south of Honey Island.
Joe Saunders insists that he has seen crocodiles in a creek flowing into the Suwanee River in Clinch County while Jackson Lee says that he knows of at least two crocodiles being taken in Billy's Lake.
These hunters when pressed for details state that the chief distinctive character of the crocodile is the color of its eyes which they describe as red or orange and the much darker color of the body.
These men have spent their lives in the swamp and are remarkably close observers and it is evident that the form which they have in mind is in some way different from the common alligator but it seems unlikely that it is Crocodilus americanus.
II.
SNAKES.
BY A. H. WRIGHT AND S. C. BISHOP.
No State in the United States has furnished more distinctive and peculiar snakes and no area has received more herpetological attention than Florida yet none of these numerous ophidian collectors and students has ever entered Okefinokee at Florida's northern border.
The nearest approach came about twentyfive years ago in the visit of the ornithologist Mr. C. F. Batchelder of Cambridge Mass.
He spent a day or two on Mitchell and Black Jack Islands.
To the eastward at St. Mary's Ga. and at Fernandina Fla. he took the following si3ecies Cijclophis wstivus Osceola doliata doliata Osceola elapsoidea Ophibolus getulus getulus.
In Florida at Gainesville the snakes secured by James Bell in 140 Mar. 1879 July 1880 and April 718 1882 prove most instructive for this locality is not far south of Bay Swamp the Floridan extension of the Okefinokee Swamp.
Mr. Bell has the following list Osceola elapsoidea Ophibolus getuliis getulus Natrix fasciata fasciata Natrix fasciata pictiventris Natrix fasciata sipedon Natrix fasciata erythrogaster Eutcenia sackenii Elaps fulvius Ancistrodon contortrix Crotcdus adamanteus.
Abastor erythrogrammus Farancia abacura Heterodon platyrhinus Heterodon simus Cyclophis cestivus Zamenis constrictor Zamenis flagellum  Coluber quadrivittatus Compsosoma corais couperii Pityophis melanoleucus  Osceola doliata parallela Of the above 22 species seven with asterisks are not in our list.
All of these seven we might expect in southeastern Georgia and were in our working hypothetical list before the trip was taken.
They represent the remaining Austroriparian forms which were not taken by us and with the truly Floridan peninsular snakes almost complete the whole list of southeastern United States forms.
Furthermore these seven with Abastor erythrogrammus a mud and aquatic snake eliminated from consideration represent the assemblage of southeastern species which most prefer the dry pine forests of the Atlantic coast or dry open or sandy fields where the gopher turtle occurs.
We have no doubt that these seven occur on the Atlantic seaboard to the immediate east of Okefinokee and also in its outskirts.
In fact the natives held that there were several kinds of snakes outside the swamp which were not within it and among these they named the coachwhip snake.
Besides the gopher turtle the associate form of the above seven occurs outside the swamp but not within it.
To the northwest about forty miles at Nashville and Alapaha Ga. William J. Taylor from July 19 to November 18 1881 took seven species of snakes of which Elaps fulvius does not appear in our list.
The seven are Sistr urns miliar i us  Ophibolus getulus getulus Elaps fulvius.
 Farancia abacura Heterodon platyrhinus Haldea striatula Natrix fasciata sipedon In addition to these collections from Messrs. C. F. Batchelcler J.
Bell and W. J. Taylor Cope also had material from St. Simon's Island.
In the earlier days Holbrook received some material from the region to the eastward of the swamp vide Tropidonotus taxispilotus .2' In another place Vol.
IV p. vi he writes J. Hamilton Couper Esq. of St. Simon's Island Georgia has also furnished me with several Serpents of that state and to him I owe a knowledge of the Gopher Snake perhaps the largest and most beautiful of our Serpents.
Of this form Mr. Couper says  I have only seen it in the dry pine hills south of the Alatamaha and I have never met with it in the low grounds even of the same vicinity.
This may explain its absence in the Okefinokee.
In this connection it is interesting to observe that the same seven absent forms except Compsosoma corais couperii occur in Dr. Holbrook's Catalogue  of the Ophidia of Georgia.
In it 33 species of snakes are listed.
In C. S. Brimley'ss Records of Some Reptiles and Batrachians from the Southeastern United States we find 21 species recorded from Georgia.
Five Compsosoma corais couperii and Ahastor erythrogrammus being absent of the seven species missing from Okefinokee are given in his list as taken either at Riceboro to the northeast or at Mimsville to the west.
In 1871 and 1876 Paul Fountain visited this area and he writes i I can assure the lover of Nature if he is prepared to run the risk of fever that the farther he forces his way into its gloomy depths the more remarkable and beautiful will be the forms of animal and vegetable life he will discover.
Later he says A greater number of reptiles may be found in this swamp than in any other spot I know of in the States.
And he reserves his discussion and digression on snakes in general for his chapter on A Day in a Cypress Swamp Okefinokee.
In 1888 Cope published On the Snakes of Florida and this paper has considerable bearing on some of the Okefinokee species but inasmuch as it is embraced in Cope's great work The Crocodilians Lizards and Snakes of North America we will not consider it in detail.
In 1896 the next list of some pertinence is Remarks on Some of the Floridan Snakes by Charles B. Cor. He enumerates 15 of the commoner species of this State.
20 N. A. Herpetology 1842 Vol.
IV p. 36.
21 N. A.
Herp. Vol.
Ill pp.
76 77.
22 White's Statistics of the State of Georgia 1849 Appendix p. 14.
23 Biol.
Soc.
Wash. 1910 Vol.
XXIII pp.
818.
 Fountain Paul.
The Great Deserts and Forests of North America New York 1901 pp.
65 66.
25 Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. Vol.
XI pp.
.381394.
2 Rep. U. S. Nat.
Mus. 1898 Washington 1900 pp.
1531270.
27 Hunting and Fishing in Florida Boston 1896 pp.
124131.
142 Mar. From September 1892 to July 1893 Prof. Einar Loennberg of University of Upsala Sweden was engaged in collecting in Florida and his Notes etc. published in 1895 proves one of the most important herpetological papers on southeastern United States in the last quarter of a century.
He secured 30 species of snakes.
Nine of his 30 species are not represented in our collections three being genera peculiar to Florida one TantUla coronata occurring in Georgia as well not being recorded however from the Okefinokee Swamp and five proving of the same assemblage as Bell's seven Gainesville species missing from the Okefinokee Swamp because they are more especiall dry pine land forms.
The 21 species taken in the swamp represent a distinctly Austroriparian element which does not entirely shun moisture.
The collection of 165 individuals apportioned numerically among the 21 different species of snakes indicates very roughly the degree of abundance on Billy's Island or its immediate environs.
The list follows  Heterodon platyrhinus 38 Ancistrodon piscivorus 16 Thamnophis sirtalis ordinatus.. 15 Coluber constrictor 13 Lampropeltis getidus 13 Tropidonotus taxispilotus 11 Tha7nnophis s. sackeni 10 Tropidonotus fnsciatus 10 Lampropeltis doliatus coccineus 6 Sistrurus miliarius 6 Elaphe ohsoletus 6 Opheodrys cestivus 5 Farancia abacura 3 Diadophis punctatus 3 Crotalus horridus 2 Elaphe guttatus .... 2 Storeria dekayi 2 Storeria occipitomaculata 1 Cemophora coccinea 1 Crotalus adamanteus 1 Haldea striatula 1 None of Cope's 1900 p. 1207 four pecuhar snake genera Stilosoma Seminatrix Rhadinea and Liodytes of the Floridan region enter the swamp and none of the Floridan sauria unless the other limbless lizard described by the Lees proves to be Rhineura.
One lone specimen of Hijla gratiosa of the amphibians was taken and with the birds there is a Floridan tendency but it is not very pronounced.
Of the above 21 snakes Thamnophis s. sackenii of Cope's Floridan snakes occurs in the swamp and there are forms which might be termed T. compressicaudus and T. f. pictiventris.
The largest portion of the Okefinokee material in this report represents the collection made by the Cornell University expedition during the summer of 1912 May 28July 13.
The party included 28 Loennberg Einar.
Notes on Reptiles and Batrachians collected in Florida in 1892 and 1893.
Proc.
U. S. N.
Mus. Vol.
XVII 1894.
Washington 1895 pp.
317339.
Profs.
J. C. Bradley and C. R. Crosby of the Department of Entomology Dr. A. H. Wright of the Department of Zoology Headmaster W. D. Funkhouser of the Ithaca High School Messrs. S. C. Bishop and M. D. Leonard of the class of 1913 and Paul Battle of Bainbridge Ga. During the first week Mr. E. L. Worsham State Entomologist of Georgia and Mr. C. S. Spooner Assistant State Entomologist were also with the party.
Later from July 15 to November 1 1912 the Lees judiciously collected material which added four species to our list and nicely augmented our series of previously known forms.
In the fall of 1913 Prof. J. C. Bradley and Paul Battle spent a week on Billy's Island and brought out a few reptiles.
In December 1913 Profs.
J. G. Needham and J. C. Bradley Messrs. John Needham and Paul Battle made a trip of ten days into' the Okefinokee and collected considerable data on the winter conditions.
Some of their material they brought out but they left a container which was filled by the Ijees by August 1 1914.
This collection has not been received and is not incorporated in this report.
All the members of these various parties and particularly Prof. Bradley collected snake material and data and to each of them we are deeply indebted for aid good communal spirit and material encouragement.
Acknowledgments are due Dr. Leonhard Stejneger of the United States National Museum Dr. Witmer Stone and Mr. H. W. Fowler of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for the privilege of examining types in their respective collections and to Messrs. R. W. Bennett and Cornelius of Fargo Ga. without whose courteous assistance it would have been impossible to have transported our material out of the swamp.
The Lees proved very efficient collectors.
They enjoy life in this naturalist's paradise and do not live in constant fear of the numerous venomous snakes and dangerous animals of the swamp.
They do not alter their course in life because of them though they respect and appreciate the danger and know what bad wounds some can inflict.
They bathe in the lakes where many accidents might befall them but usually do not.
The children go barefoot and were our best and most vigilant scouts about the Lees' clearing.
Many a snake both large and small they ''stepped on if they did not cromb  it with a stick.
They knew not the noose and to it we had little recourse except on rare occasions.
The gun proved very serviceable in the thickets.
The Lees' fields and clearing were the resort of turtles lizards and oviparous snakes which sought them for breeding purposes.
Hither as in other parts of the swamp the bears raccoons opossums and other mammals come for the eggs buried in the sand.
Over this same ground the king snake black snake and pilot snake search for the same quarry and the reptiles which lay the eggs.
The natives have a very good idea of the economic value of the various snakes and spare most of them except the truly poisonous forms and what they call the Water and Highland Moccasins Tropidonotus and Thamnophis.
One of the many roles which the natives accredit the black and turkey vultures is that of enemies of snakes and some birds of prey e.g. the Buteos engage in the same practice.
The snakes also suffer from the herons ibises and cranes but with these the reptiles are a second choice when frogs and toads are available.
The number of snakes with internal parasites is surprisingly large 37 of the 165 being thus afflicted or 8 of the 21 species.
They are Heterodon platyrhinus 14 Thamnophis s. sackeni 2 Ancistrodon piscivorus 6 Lampropeltis getuliis 1 Coluber constrictor 5 Sistrurus miliarius 1 Tropidonotus taxispilotus 5 Thamnophis s. ordinatus 3 37 No doubt other species also suffer for this list represents the species of which we had the largest series.
The above species are about equally distributed between the terrestrial and aquatic groups.
In number the former are 24 and the latter 13 but if the spreading adder be eliminated the terrestrial forms lead by 3.
It is a significant fact that the species which are the worst sufferers are also inveterate feeders on toads and frogs of all kinds and it is quite possible that these nematodes and other parasites reach the snakes through their food.
According to habitat these snakes may be divided as follows Islands.
Heterodon platyrhinus Elaphe ohsoletus.
Coluber constrictor Opheodrys cestivus Lamprojjeltis getulus Diadophis punctatus Crotalus adamanteus Elaphe guttatus Crotalus horridus Storeria dekayi Sistrurus miliarius Storeria occipitomaculata Thamnophis s. ordinatus Haldea striatula Lampropeltis d. coccineus 1915.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
Cypress Bays.
145 A ncistrodon piscivorus Farancia ahacura Thamnophis s. sackeni Thamnophis s. sackeni A ncistrodon piscivorus Tropidonotus taxispilotus Tropidonotus taxispilotus Tropidonotus fasciatus.
Prairies.
Tropidonotus fasciatus.
Water Courses.
Elaphe obsoletus.
Transition Zone Between Islands and Cypress Bays.
Farancia ahacura Heterodon platyrhinus Crotalus adamanteus.
Coluber obsoletus Diadophis punctatus.
Stover ia dekayi Haldea striatida.
If these snakes be considered from the point of view of locomotion they fall into the same four groups which Loennberg 1895 pp.
336 337 made and the snakes are quite similarly but not absolutely arranged as he found them  Swimming Forms.
T. taxispilotus T. fasciatus T. s. sackeni.
H. platyrhinus F. ahacura T. s. ordinatus C. constrictor L. getulus L. d. coccineus S. miliarius C. adamanteus C. horridus E. obsoletus E. guttatus O. cestivus 10 A. piscivorus F. ahacura.
Burrowing Forms.
L. d. coccineus L. getulus.
Crawling Forms.
E. obsoletus D. punctatus E. guttatus  dekayi S. occipitomaculata H. striatula.
Climbing Forms.
C. constrictor L. d. coccineus.
146 Mar. Or viewed from the standpoint of breeding they are about equallydivided the poisonous snakes Tropidonotus Thamtiophis Storeria and Haldea being ovoviviparous and all the rest oviparous.
Finally if the Okefinokee snakes be grouped according to food based largely on stomach contents but also on observations of the haunt time of activity in the swamp and on the keen knowledge of the natives these snakes are arranged as follows E. ohsoletus L. getidus C. constrictor S. miliarius C. adamanteus C. constrictor S. miliarius L. d. coccineus T. s. sackeni T. taxispilotus T. fasciatus.
L. getidus A. piscivorus T. fasciatus T. taxispilotus H. platyrhinus C. constrictor E. ohsoletus H. platyrkinus T. s. sackeni T. s. ordinatus S. miliarius L. d. coccineus.
Mammals Birds or their eggs.
C. horridus A. piscivorus E. guttatus mammals only.
Lizards or their eggs.
L. getulus C. coccinea.
Fish.
A. piscivorus L. d. coccineus.
Turtles or their eggs.
E. ohsoletus.
Frogs.
A. piscivorus S. miliarius T. s. sackeni T. s. ordinatus.
Insects Worms Mollusks etc.
D. punctatus H. striatula S. occipitomaculata S. dekayi 0. cestivus.
It is apparent at once that.
insects etc. prove the important food of the smaller snakes ten of the 21 species falling in this group and only one of the larger snakes being in this category.
Doubtless all the 21 species will eat insects to a certain extent.
The species which are almost exclusive insect feeders are Haldea striatula Storeria occipitomaculata Storeria dekayi and Opheodrys cestivus.
The reader must bear in mind throughout this discussion we are treating Okefinokee snakes and not the species throughout its entire range.
With the larger snakes the food most generally sought is Anura or Amphibia in general.
It is par excellence the food of the aquatic snakes and with these four or five species it usually is some species of Rana though Acris Chorophiliis or Hyla may rarely appear as their prey.
Equally important are frogs in the food of the larger land snakes 5 species being addicted to them.
With these the southern and oak toads Bufo are easily of first importance with the tree frogs Hyla and the narrowmouthed frog Engystoma occupying second and third places.
In fact these 10 snakes prefer the softbodied frogs and toads to any other food of the swamp reptilian eggs not considered and if they were to be restricted to any one of these categories they belong to this group.
Fish enter into the food economy of all the aquatic species the bream and killifishes proving the common bait.
L. d. coccineus ate fish as doubtless some of the island forms do when the smaller fish become cut off in landlocked pools on the islands.
In general the lizards are swift except the ground lizard and fall prey only to some of the swifter coursers of the islands.
However at least 5 species ate them or their eggs.
The turtles when young and soft are occasionally taken by the moccasins and possiblj' by the other aquatic snakes the young softshelled turtles Platypeltis ferox being the species most attacked.
On the land the turtles' eggs are eaten by at least 2 species if not by many more.
This source of food is one of the commonest of the swamp for man mammals and snakes.
At least onethird of the species are cannibalistic and will eat snakes either adults or young or eggs.
The warmblooded groups birds and mammals suffer from the same foes.
Seven species of the largest snakes of the swamp assail them their eggs or young.
Four of these seven are the four poisonous snakes of the swamp while the other three are the pilot black and king snakes.
In addition the mammals have an inveterate foe in the corn snake which apparently does not molest birds.
None of these seven or eight species are aquatic but one the moccasin.
The three omnivorous coursers on the islands are the king snake pilot snake and the black snake while in the water the only snake which includes insects in its diet to any extent is the southern riband snake.
One must be impressed with the immense abundance of the reptihan forms the restricted island quarters for these reptiles and the need of great numbers to keep each species existent under such strenuous vicissitudes.
Each form fish amphibian reptile bird or mammal has untold foes which are close at hand fellowtravellers of the same course and seekers of the same breeding grounds already crowded.
Never have we been so struck with the incessant warfare of primeval nature as on these islands of the Okefinokee.
Another very interesting fact is the isolated nature of the place where these 165 snakes were taken.
They are virtually a collection of Billy's Island ophidians with a few other islands and portions of the swamp represented.
Our series of each species becomes therefore very significant if several variants appear.
They cannot be designated as geographical subspecies or varieties and must be considered only as indicating the inherent range of variation which a species may manifest in one limited geographical region not what might appear in an extensive or expansive stretch of territory.
Hence the value of the material though not as numerous as might be desired.
Without doubt many of the conclusions and observations in this paper are not new and are only corroborative of previous work but they may have interest because of their independent nature.
The more significant conclusions are 1.
That Tropidonotus fasciatus and most of its subspecies T. compressicaudus T. ustus T. bisectus and T. rhomhifera need to be restudied before they can be finally accepted.
2.
That Elaphe obsoletus confinis E. o. lemniscatus E. spiloides E. Icetus and E. quadrivittatiis are too closely intergradient to be so distinctly designated.
3.
That LampropeUis getulus getulus L. g. sayi and L. g. splendidusare possibly variations within one region.
4.
That Thamnophis sirtalis ordinatus is the color form of the Okefinokee though its recognition as a good subspecies may be questionable.
5.
That LampropeUis d. coccineus and Osceola elapsoidea are to be considered one and the same.
6.
That Diadophis a. stictogenys is not deserving of separation from Diadophis punctatus.
7.
That Farancia ahacura may have whitebellied forms as well as those with the typical red ventral coloration and that this albinistic character is not solely an adult or young variation.
8.
That our specimens of Heterodon platyrhinus are onethird plafyrhinus onethird intermediate and onethird niger that possibly 7iiger is an adult end phase and that one platyrhinus specimen agrees perfectly with Heterodon brownii Stejnegerboth in the absence of the azjgous plate and in coloration.
9.
That the two specimens of Storeria dekayi have not 17 but 15 rows of scales like S. occipitomaculata and one of the two specimens has the oculars not 12 but 22 as usual in the redbellied species the lone representative of which has the ocular formula 32.
10.
That the range of the southern ribbon snake T. s. sackeni is not restricted on the Atlantic coast to Florida.
11.
That C. horridus of the Okefinokee is distinctly the light canebrake form of this species.
1.
Faraucia abacura Holbrook Horn Snake Redbellied Snake Hoop Snake Rainbow Snake Mud Snake Checkered Snake.
Three specimens were taken and from native accounts it apparently is fairly common but hard to secure.
In distribution this species reaches from Virginia to Florida and from Indiana and Illinois to Louisiana and rarely into Texas.
The nearest records are from AUapaha Ga. to the northwest and from Gainesville Fla. to the direct south.
Coloration.
 The horn snake is one of the most beautiful snakes of North America.
The ground color is a blueblack the smooth and shining scales have an enamelled surface and the gastrosteges and the scales along the sides have a fluted appearance.
Every labial mental and gular plate has a blueblack spot in its middle.
The color of the back extends to the gastrosteges in vertical bars or inverted triangles the apices being on the gastrosteges.
Usually at each one of these apices appears an oblong spot and in the cephalic half of the body the venter as a result presents a row of these spots on either end of the gastrosteges thus giving a distinct lightcolored band down the middle.
In the caudal half of the body the vertical bars of opposite sides usually meet or alternate on the midventral line producing a checkered appearance.
The vertical black bars are two scales wide at the end of the gastrosteges and three or four scales wide on the 4th row of scales.
The lighter intervals between the dark bars are two scales wide at the end of the gastrosteges and one wide at the 4th row of scales.
Each gular gastrostege has a black band across it.
The lighter color of the venter extends to the 4th row of scales in the younger specimens.
In these usually at the neck of the light interval there appears one or two blueblack spots to suggest the almost complete invasion of the body color upon these areas in the large specimens where the light areas seldom reach the 2d row of scales and where there are large central black spots on the scales.
Our specimens have 63 64 and 65 light vertical bars or wedges respectively or from 5053 from the anus forward.
Curiously enough the two specimens which we first took alive one 151.7 cm.
long and the other 43 cm. were ivhite beneath and not red.
The other preserved specimen has also the whitish appearance.
Two of the specimens in alcohol may possibly have a slight tinge of pinkish but it is faint if present at all surely it is not yellow.
These three whitebellied Farancias are noteworthy.
H. H. Brimley took a large whitebellied adult male which was coiled with a normal male and female in coitu but our specimens however are not all adults one being only 43 cm. the largest 151.7 cm. and another intermediate 81.1 cm.
The native present when we caught the largest specimen asserted that he had seen redbellied forms of this snake and in December 1913 Profs.
Needham and Bradley saw.
a beautiful redbellied individual of this species.
Dimensions and Variatio7is.
 The gastrosteges were 194 195 and 196 respectively in our three specimens the urosteges 39 39 42 the scales 191919 supralabials 7 eye over 3d and 4th supralabial infralabials 8 loreal elongate temporals 12 nasal with groove below nostril in C. U. No.
6108 a groove above the nostril as well anal plate and the gastrostege before it divided in the caudal half of the body 6 or 8 rows of scales on the dorsum with a suggestion of a keel on them.
Habits.
 The largest specimen No.
6108 was taken in a dark cypress thicket between Billy's and Gallberry Islands wherein a Florida barred owl had retreated.
In water ankle deep or more our guide accidentally stepped on the snake thinking it at first a moccasin.
He recoiled and then quickly shot it.
The smallest specimen No.
6107 was secured in the most difficult tangle Minne Lake trail to Minne Lake Islands of the whole swamp where the magnificent cypress trees and associated undergrowth were thickest.
On a mat of sphagnum it rested and when alarmed quickly shot down 23 Brimley C. S. Zoology of Lake Ellis N. C Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. Vol.
XXII 1909 p. 134. into it.
Our first hold of this snake was not secure and it as quickly began burrowing the second time.
From all that we observed of the living snakes of this species we would consider them timid harmless burrowers.
They are decidedly inhabitants of the twilight parts of the swamp and their eyes suggest such a habitat.
If found during the day they appear in the dark gloomy cypress ponds on the islands or amongst the dense vegetation of the deepest and most inaccessible regions of the swamp.
We discovered no particular superstitions regarding its horny tip.
It is curious to find the hill hooprolling story also associated with this species which to my mind is one of our most aquatic species and the names cypress or sphagnum snake would be equally appropriate with some of the names suggested by its structures.
Food and Breeding.
 None of the specimens had food in their alimentary tract and no parasites were found.
The natives relate how the thunder snake L. gelulus digs beneath rotten logs and other cover for the adults and young of this species.
Of the breeding habits of this oviparous form we know little.
The natives assert that the progeny of one female sometimes reaches 40 to 43.
2.
Diadophis punctatus Linnseus Ringnecked Snake.
Plate III fig.
1.
Fig.
5.
This species is probably fairly common on the islands of the swamp.
Three specimens were secured on Billy's Island between June 11 and 15 1912.
Coloration.
 All three specimens are bluishblack or brown above the color extending on to the end of each gastrostege.
These black spots on either extremity appear as a row on each side of the venter.
In No.
6105 they are very obscure on the neck region.
In all three the dorsal scales are with pale edges and with numerous fine light specks.
In No.
6104 the edges of the dorsal scales are opalescent.
In No.
6106 there is a median row of bodycolored spots down the venter to the anus all the urosteges and gastrostege No.
2 being without spots the same applies to No.
6105 with the urosteges and gastrosteges Nos.
15 8 unspotted in No.
6104 the median row is very interrupted no spots being on gastrosteges Nos.
120 except No.
3 and none beyond No.
133 while between Nos.
21133 there are several missing.
In No.
6105 the nuchal half collar is 12 scales wide in No.
6106 it is the same width but interrupted by a median dorsal row of black scales while in No.
6104 it is faint except on the lower sides.
In No.
6105 the mental and labial regions are almost immaculate a few infralabials being with faint black spots in No.
6104 each infralabial is weh marked with one or more black spots as the symphyseal is in No.
6106 the geneials as well have these spots.
Dimensions and Variations.
ThQ total length of these three snakes reaches from 19.529 cm.
 the tail from 4.75.8 cm.
or 45j in the total length the gastrosteges are 143150 the urosteges 3946 anal divided and in one the gastrostege ahead is also divided.
Tail very spikelike and sharp.
Scales 151515 temporals 11 oculars 12 in No.
6106 the preocular large on the right side and small on the left side the prefrontal taking the place of the normal iipper preocular 22 in Nos.
6104 and 6105.
The supralabials in No.
6106 are 8 with the eye resting on the 4th and 5th in No.
6105 on the right side they are 8 with eye on the 4th and 5th while on the left side there are 7 with the eye on the 3d and 4th in No.
6104 there are 7 supralabials on each side the eye being over the 3d and 4th on each side.
In Nos.
6105 6106 the supralabials have the clear band of ventral color but in No.
6104 this color is heavily encroached upon by black.
6105 6105 6106 gQg Fig.
5.
 Diadophis punctatus Linn.
In view of Cope's establishment of D. amabilis stictogenys upon three specimens from New Orleans Pearl River Miss. and Savannah Ga. the last locality not far from Okefinokee Swamp our three specimens prove interesting.
To find these three showing such a gamut of differences is rather fortunate.
Our specimen No.
6104 is almost a duplicate of Cope's D. a. stictogenys.
It has 7 supralabials a speckled gular and labial region and the eye resting on the 3d and 4th supralabial liut like his specimen the three abdominal rows of ventral spots the 150 gastrosteges and other characters suggest D. punctatus.
It was taken under the same log as an almost immaculatechinned D. punctatus Avhich has 8 supralabials on the right side and eye on the 4th and 5th and 7 supralabials on the left side and eye over 3d and 4th.
No.
6106 captured in a similar habitat is a good D. punctatus in scutellation but has the gular and labial regions spotted as in Cope's subspecies.
The numerous variations in these three specimens the circumstances of their capture the isolated character of their habitat Billy's Island an inspection of Cope's type and Dr. vStejneger's previous decision and concurrence study of Diadophis in manuscript  all force the authors to consider this subspecies untenable.
Habits.
 This attractive snake was found during the day under cover usually under logs near the cypress edges of Billy's Island.
It seemed to prefer localities near the edge of the thicker woods.
In one case it was under a log in a place near and exactly similar to the situation described for Haldea striatula.
In the other instance the two were taken June 11 1912 under a log near Billy's Island landing at the woody edge of cultivated fields.
The D. a. stidogenys specimen was first taken and a few minutes later the other specimen was found under the same log.
The former may have been seeking the sandy fields of the Lees where lizards snakes and turtles resort in great numbers to lay their eggs.
This specimen had six unlaid eggs which measured as follows 18 x 9 mm. 19 x 9 19 x 9 20 x 9 20 X 9 21 x 10.
The covering is thin and quite pinkish in alcohol.
This species seems as nocturnal in Okefinokee as our experiences with it elsewhere suggest.
These specimens had insect and worm remains in their alimentary tracts.
5.
Heterodon platyrhinus Latreille Hognosed Snake Hognose Spreading Adder Spreading Viper Blowing Adder Blow Snake Blowing Viper Spotted Adder Flatheaded Adder Pufif Adder Sand Viper Black Viper.
Plate III fig.
7 fig.
6.
Thirtyeight specimens were secured of which 16 were young snakes one was a cast skin.
Coloration.
 In coloration our series show all possible patterns.
The 16 young were all of the spotted phase and manifested the following pattern The ground color may be yellowish brownish or reddish.
Down the back is a series of 2632 spots and on the tail 79 spots which become transverse bands.
The color around these dorsal spots is brighter or lighter than the surrounding body color.
Alternating with and almost touching the corners of the dorsal spots is a series of lateral spots.
In the cephalic region one of these spots of each side with a pair of successive dorsal spots form a quartette  an arrangement soon lost in the caudal part of the body and seldom seen in adults.
Beneath these spots may be seen one or more series of small spots not very distinct in form.
The venter is grayish or greenishwhite heavily blotched with black or brownish.
The head has a black bar connecting the upper anterior edges of the orbits another bar from the eye to the angle of the mouth  and a third on occipital plates posterior margins of supraorbitals and frontal.
This black spot has a backward extension on either side of the nape or neck and usually a small median extension just back of the occipital plates.
Often this median prolongation is cut off and surrounded by body color.
Usually on the occipital suture and occipitofrontal suture appears a light spot.
In some of the adults the same schema of coloration obtains as in the young except that dorsal and lateral spots are less distinct as such and become more transverse areas with light intervals.
Furthermore the supralabials are more prominently spotted in the young.
Of the 21 specimens of adults 8 were of the black niger type with slatygray below.
In most of these 8 the gular scales and whole chin except in two become the darkest portion of the whole venter.
Of the spotted forms platyrhinus  we had a few with the brickred on the head and neck and somewhat on the body.
In the intermediates the approach to the black phase begins in the head region and the head first becomes black or it and the neighboring cephalic region.
In this process the transverse light intervals remain brightest and persist longest in the tail region.
Some of the specimens are almost niger in the cephalic region but platyrhiyius in the caudal half or threequarters niger with the scales of the light intervals of the caudal region with incoming black centres.
About 7 of the adults were true spotted adders and 6 intermediate.
Thus of the adults we have an almost equal division of 7 spotted 6 intermediates and 8 blacks.
Most of our largest specimens were black or fast approaching that stage.
The black seems to be an end phase of size or age possibly not always attained in an individual but certainly the spotted phase is most prominent in the smaller specimens of the collection.
Besides it might be remembered that none of the 16 young were black but all true spotted forms.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The 16 young vary in length from 13.719.6 cm. while the adults are from 35104.2 cm.
1 ft. 2 inches3 ft. 5 inches.
Possibly the species may reach 4 feet in length and a circumference of 6 inches largest specimen being 5 inches in girth.
The gastrosteges range from 120146 average 130 the urosteges 3059 average 48 the anal is divided in several with half a gastrostege ahead the scale row formula of 18 individuals is 252519 the other formulae being 232317 242217 242419 252119 252221 252318 252319 252518 252520 252521 252523 262521 272418 272519 or in the middle of the body from 2125 exceeding the usual range of the 3 species of Heterodon by the loss of two rows in 21rowed condition or in the cephalic region extending from 2327 two rows beyond the normal 1915.
155 25 rows of Heterodon platyrhinus and simus.
The temporals are 3 on both sides in twentyseven specimens 34 on one side and 35 on the other in three specimens and 34 and 45 in one specimen the supralabials are 8 in twentyseven specimens 9 in seven specimens and 98 in three specimens the infralabials are 11 in fifteen specimens 10 in three specimens 12 in five 13 in one 1011 in four 1012 in three 1112 in five and 1213 in one.
The orbital ring exclusive of the supraocular is 10 cm both sides in thirteen specimens 11 in one 910 in two 911 in two 1011 in fourteen and 810 in two i.e. 22 of the 38 with number of oculars different on the two sides.
Rarely the azygous plate may be cut off from contact with the rostral by the prenasals No.
6186.
One spotted specimen No.
HOrmoV 6197 6186 6194 6170 6204 Fig.
6.
 Heterodon platyrhinus Latr.
6202 6197 has not the characteristic azygous plate at all.
Unlike Dr. Stejneger's Heterodon browni this specimen has the posterior projection of the rostral more than onehalf of the suture between the internasals and their mutual suture therefore less than that between the prefrontals.
Otherwise it is very much like it.
The specimen has the following scutellation gastrosteges 123 urosteges 55 anal divided scales 252119 supralabials 8 infralabials 11 orbital ring 10 not including the supraocular temporals 35 on the right side and 34 on the left side.
These characters and a very similar coloration bring it in almost perfect agreement with Dr. Stejneger's H. hroivni from the other end of Florida namely Lemon City.
A black individual No.
6194 has the frontal transversely divided into two plates.
One specimen No.
6202 has 2 loreals on either 3 Proc.
Biol.
Soc.
Wash. XVI pp.
123 124. side and two others Nos.
6178 and 6205 both small mdividuals have 2 loreals on one side and 1 on the other.
Another No.
6204 has 2 loreals on one side and 3 on the other if an extra scale between the oculars loreals and 3d and 4th supralabials be called a loreal.
This small extra scale also occurs in No.
6170.
Habits.
 This interesting snake proved very common around the Lee's sandy clearing and in all dry parts of the swamp.
It was the first form to be observed and of it more specimens were taken than of any other species.
One might find it beside the trails or on the islands where no human courses led.
They were often taken about and in the corn chufa  goober and yam fields of the Lees where the snakes probably resort for breeding.
Here it did not seem to be solely a case of lightspotted phase for dry and sandy places and dark phase in more woody and moist situations.
In the same open fields we find one phase one day and the other the following day.
In two instances we took adult spotted and black phases within 40 feet of each other.
We dare not make a distinction between the two as to habitat sex food etc. unless it be size or age.
In this case often the oldest ones are not always black or blackish but they seem to tend that way.
Of its spreading or flattening we saw evidences and the natives are well aware of the assorted' defensive repertoire of this curious snake.
They had none of the superstitions about the emanations from it affecting the atmosphere nor did they believe that it spat its poison when hissing.
In all our captures we saw no particular signs of ill temper.
Breeding.
 This snake is oviparous.
All through the month of June we were finding the snakes in the planted fields of the Lees and more than once almost stepped on the clumsy females of this species.
To these fields they came to lay their eggs and throughout June and later the boys were continually turning the eggs up to the surface as they cultivated their fields in their primitive fashion.
The eggs invariably were in sandy soil and were usually 4 or 5 inches beneath the surface.
Sometimes in one set as many as 11 or 12 would be found.
One specimen No.
6175 taken June 3 1912 had 22 eggs far from ready for ovulation.
Another specimen No.
6171 had 30 eggs 16 on the right side and 14 on the left side.
But the egg complement may go beyond this 1230 range.
On June 19 Mr. Paul Battle took a large Heterodon from which he and one of the authors squeezed 42 eggs.
The females were not all of one phase some were black others spotted.
The above eggs were white with much thinner integuments than those of the black snake and without the granules of the latter.
These 42 eggs average f 30 mm.
x f 21 mm.
inches and are not far advanced in development.
Food.
 We can hardly hold that the black forms eat frogs and toads and that the light ones will refuse frogs.
Of course if one grants the more moist situations for the dark phase such a differentiation of diet preference might possibly occur.
Our specimens preferred toads.
Three had each a southern toad Bufo lentiginosus lentiginosus in their stomachs.
Another had eaten three southern toads two full grown and one half grown.
Three had partaken of beetles and two had taken grasshoppers.
Parasites.
 Fourteen of the 21 adults had parasites in their stomachs or intestines.
Sometimes the sole contents of the alimentary tract might be a bundle of parasites  in individual cases the stomach would be absolutely filled with them.
No snake compares with the spreading adder as a host for these animals and it may be due largely to its strong Anuran diet.
4.
Opheodrys sestivus Linnaeus Green Snake Southern Green Snake  Keeled Green Snake Rough Green Snake Green Whip Snake Magnolia Snake Summer Snake Green Summer Snake.
Fig.
7 Three specimens of this species were secured from Billy's Island on June 5 1912 and the other two from July 15November 1 1912.
Coloration.
 This species is bright green above and usually yellowishwhite below and on the labials.
In two of our specimens the green of the back extends across the caudal twothirds of each gastrostege but the chin and the labials are more or less yellowishwhite.
6100 6240 6143 oi Z  6249 6143 Fig.
7.
 Left and middle figures Lampropeltis doliatus coccineus.
Righthand figui'es Opheodrys cestivus Linn.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The total length varies from 31.268.1 cm.
 the tail from 12.026.7 cm. or 2.52.6 times in the total length the gastrosteges are from 151160 the urosteges 130148 anal divided in No.
6233 the ventral plate ahead divided and one of the halves also horizontally subdivided scales 171715 loreal present oculars 12 in No.
6143 caudad of the lower postocular is a small scale hardly a temporal if this be not a temporal the temporal formula for all three is 12 infralabials 8 the fifth largest supralabials 8 in one specimen and 7 in the other two eye resting on the 3d and 4th supralabial scales 171715 the lower row smooth the second row very faintly keeled.
Habits Food.
 In our experience this species is decidedly arboreal and Profs.
Crosby and Bradley record the same habitat for it.
The specimens were taken from small bushes and it is a close second to Elaphe obsoletus and its allies in its treeclimbing proclivities as the records and its long slender body testify.
This species is quite thoroughly insectivorous one specimen having undeterminable insect remains in the rectum another a partly digested beetle larva and the largest parts of a tree cricket and other orthopterous remains with insect eggs presumably belonging to the prey captured.
5.
Coluber constrictor L. Black Snake Black Racer Racer Black Runner Blue Racer Whitethroated Racer.
Plate III fig.
5 fig.
8.
This slender snake was one of the most common species of the islands but only thirteen of them were captured because of their speed.
Coloration.
 In coloration this smoothscaled snake is shining black above and slaty or plumbeous beneath the white chin and throat in most of the specimens occupy the mental infralabials geneials first 23 gular gastrosteges the cephalic gulars and the lower edges of the supralabials two or three of the larger specimens have slaty chins except for a small white spot which in one case covers parts of the mental inner border of the 1st and 2d infralabials and the anterior geneials while in the other it occupies 1st gastrostege and two gulars.
One mediumsized specimen No.
6152 has more of a brown tinge and the gastrosteges are slaty except for the caudal borders which are distinctly white another specimen was decidedly whitish on the caudal ventral third of the body.
A young specimen taken June 23 1912 had spots on the back vaguely discernible and on the venter had a series of pink spots near the ends of the gastrosteges.
These spots were lost entirely in the region of the 90th100th gastrosteges.
Dimensions and Variations.
 These snakes vary in length from 71.4127 cm.
 the tail from 18.135.4 cm.
or 3.43.8 times in the total length the gastrosteges are 176189 average 182 the urosteges 92110 average 103 anal plate divided in three specimens the gastrostege ahead of the anal plate is divided or a quarter gastrostege is cut out of it in eleven of the thirteen specimens the scales are in 171715 rows in No.
6208 191715 and in No.
.6207 191515 preoculars 2 the upper one often with a transverse furrow extending across it for  to  of its width postoculars 2 except in No.
6152 where 3 are on the left side temporals 222 rarely 333 or 322 or 112 infralabials 8 in four specimens 9 on one side loreal 1 but in No.
6157 there are two the upper one being cut off from the prefrontal rarely the postnasal is transversely divided supralabials 7 in No.
6154 there are only 6 on the left side the normal 5th and 6th having united in Nos.
6150 and 6156 8 supralabials are on both sides while in No.
6151 there are 8 on one side and 7 on the other whenever eight supralabials occur the eye rests on the 4th and 5th supralabials not on the 3d and 4th.
This eight supralabial condition Cope thinks rather peculiar to the Plains flaviventris or Pacific vetustum forms of C. constrictor.
6154 6151 6154 6157 6152 6151 Fig.
8.
 Coluber constrictor Linn.
The presence of three specimens with 8 supralabials and 1 loreal and one specimen with 7 supralabials and 2 loreals suggests that in C. stejnegerianus these characters are hardly of enough value for the establishment of this new form on these slender grounds alone.
In fact distinctive scutellation characters between C. constrictor and C. flxgellum become scarce in the light of this large percentage of 8 supralabials in our collection.
The characters of the frontal and color become more than ever the main reliance.
Habits.
 This species and the spreading adder are the two most common snakes of the drier parts of the swamp.
It seems to prefer the cover of the blueberries and saw palmettoes Avhere it swiftly pursues its prey.
It however also appeared commonly about the Lee's clearing where it was often seen but seldom captured.
Only when we could get it in the open did we stand a fair chance of taking it alive so lightninglike are its movements.
In fact it is fast enough to catch anything which moves on the ground of its environment and no doubt its omnivorous appetite is partly due to its speed.
It can climb among the bushes though we usually found it on the ground.
The natives think it beneficial and allow it to climb into their corn cribs because it catches the troublesome rats and mice.
Food.
 It is considered harmless and of its antipathy for rattlesnakes we neither saw nor heard any evidence.
It doubtless will attack the poisonous snakes but not to the extent that its archenemy the king snake does.
Its speed is marvellous and all the lizards of the swamp prove its prey.
This even includes the race nag Cnemidophor'us sexlineatus which suffers most at least two of our specimens had the tails of these lizards in their stomachs indicating that the lizards were swallowed head first.
One cannot help wondering how the blacksnake captures these speedy reptiles.
Another species which the blacksnake uses for food is the slowest lizard of the islands the ground lizard Lygosoma laterale.
In some of the specimens we found sand in their stomachs.
This species is very fond of frogs and toads all the dryland forms being in the list the toad Bufo I. lentiginosus occupying first place.
One snake had 4 adult Carolina tree frogs Hyla carolinensis and 1 pinewood's tree frog Hyla femoralis in its stomach all beingtaken head first.
It seems not to scorn insects beetles being the principal group identified.
Parasites.
 This species is quite badly troubled with internal parasites five of the thirteen specimens having such in their alimentary tracts.
The first snake captured  a young one  had mites all along the edges of the gastrostegal plates a condition subsequently observed in one or two other specimens.
Breeding.
 The black snake is oviparous.
One individual taken June 1 1912 had 14 halfsized eggs another taken June 8 had 11 eggs in about the same condition.
On June 21 a specimen was taken with 5 mature eggs.
On June 19 Mr. Farley Lee went out to get some smudge wood at 7 P.M. when darkness had just begun.
Upon lifting a rotten log he found a female blacksnake which was laying its eggs under the log.
It had laid three eggs and we succeeded in forcing another from the specimen.
In the female were five more making the complement 9 in all.
Only two kinds of reptilian eggs exceed these in abundance and ease of discovery namely those of the Florida cooter Chrysemys floridana and of the spreading adder Heterodon platyrhinus .
The four eggs above mentioned measured as follows  32 mm.
1 inches x 18 mm.
f inch.
39 mm.
IfV   x 16 mm.
  .
36 mm.
lyV   x 17 mm.
  .
30 mm.
lf '' xl8mm.
H   Three others quite fresh in appearance when ploughed up were 36 mm.
lyV inches x 17 mm.
H inch.
36 mm.
liV   x 18 mm.
H  .
41 mm.
If   X 16 mm.
  .
Another batch of four taken in a similar way had been developing for a time and at preservation measured 36 mm.
lyg inches x 22 mm.
 inch.
33 mm.
IfV   x 23 mm.
  .
34 mm.
If   x 22 mm.
  .
36 mm.
lyV   x 22 mm.
  .
In all these eleven eggs the usual shape is elliptical with blunt rounded ends.
In the first and second sets one egg is much more elongate and one end more pointed than the other.
This tendency toward the ovoid form also comes in the third set where development has progressed and the increase in size has been in girth.
All these eggs when laid are white with tough coracious shells which are covered with small crystalshaped or cuplike granules.
These make the egg quite distinctive.
6.
Elaphe guttatus Linn.
 Com Snake Rat Snake Chicken Snake Red Chicken Snake Mouse Snake House King Snake House Snake Spotted Snake Spotted Racer Spotted Coluber Red Coluber.
Only two specimens Nos.
6229 6230 were taken July 15November 1 1912 after our departure.
Beyer thinks of them as fairly common in pinewood regions but says It is not found in the swamp lands being strictly terrestrial in its habits.
Certainly this form must have travelled through swamp to reach Billy's Island and doubtless encounters moisture enough on the islands.
Coloration.
 This beautiful snake is light red or ashygray with a series of dorsal dark red crimson or brickred saddles or transverse bars.
These are 35 scales wide occupy from 1013 rows and have darkedged borders.
On one specimen there are 50 in all 36 before the vent and 14 beyond it in the other there are 41 blotches 29 before the vent and 12 beyond it.
On either side appears an alternating row of smaller darkbordered red spots.
Anteriorly these 31 Beyer Geo.
E. La.
Herpetology Proc.
La.
Soc.
Naturalists 18971899 New Orleans 1900 p. 39.
11 become very narrow and the elongate black borders constitute most of the spots.
The third row on the first four rows of scales only shows distinctly in the anterior region.
The venter has a tinge of the color of the back but appears to be mainly white or yellowishwhite tessellated or checkered with quadrangular black spots.
In markings of the head these specimens very well agree with Elaphe guttatus guttatus.
Dimensions and Variations.
 These two specimens are respectively 97.3 and 111.8 cm.
long the tails 16.2 and 18.7 cm. or 6 in the total length the gastrosteges are 218 227 the urosteges 69 and 68 anal divided the scales are 242718 and 232719 the oculars 12 the temporals 23 4 and 23 the supralabials 8 the infralabials 11 and 12.. Food.
 This species belongs to the group known as rat snakes and each specimen proves true to racial reputation.
In the stomach of each we found a fullgrown ricefield rat Onjzoniijs palustris and other remains.
Both of the rats had been swallowed head first and we firmly believe them to have been taken alive.
This requires considerable dexterity in nature where the prey is not cornered and may also be another bit of evidence to show this species more aquatic than usually thought.
No parasites were found in the alimentary tract of either specimens.
7.
Elaphe obsoletus Say Pilot Snake Chicken Snake Spotted Chicken Snake Gray Coluber Gray Rat Snake.
Fig.
9.
Six specimens of this puzzling form were taken and we regret this series is not larger.
However this small collection confirms us in the belief that Scotophis confinis B. and G. Coluber obsoletus lemniscatus Cope Coluber spiloides Dum and Bib. possibly Scotophis latus B. and G. and Coluber quadrivittatus Holbrook are individual variations of Elaphe obsoletus.
This conclusion in its main features is in agreement with Boulenger and Rhoades and partly in accord with Hay's and Brown's diagnoses of these forms of the genus Elaphe.
Coloration.
 The ground color of the specimens is an ashy brownishor yellowishgray with a series of 3036 dorsal grayishbrown to dark chocolatebrown spots on the body and 916 on the tail.
In the cephalic half of the body these spots have their anterior and posterior edges concave i.e. their angles produced thus giving the spot the shape of a ray's egg in the caudal part of the body the dorsal spots are more or less quadrate.
Occasionally the 1st and 2d or the 2d and 3d dorsal spots are more or less united.
In one specimen for its entire length No.
6136 these dorsal spots are connected at the angles by a longitudinal stripe on each side as in Coluber obsoletus lemniscatus Cope.
The dorsal spots are 34 scales long and cover 810 rows of scales.
On the 2d6th rows occurs a lateral row of spots which alternate with the dorsal spots.
In the anterior region they become very elongate and linear.
In No.
6136 with two faint dorsal longitudinal bands this lateral row is connected by a longitudinal band on each side the band obscuring the spots in the caudal half of the body.
Thus in this specimen we have the four bands of C. quadrivittatus but the spots of C. spiloides or C. 0. confinis in other words a good C. o. lemniscatus Cope.
To add to the confusion the temporals on one side are 235 while on the other side they are 212.
Beneath the lateral row of spots occurs another row just above the gastrostegal keel of each side.
Each of these spots is opposite a dorsal spot and occupies the first row of scales and the ends of 2 sometimes 3 gastrosteges doATi to the gastrostegal keel.
Sometimes however this lowest row of spots does not alternate with the lateral row and sometimes this lowest row is obscure.
The venter in the large specimens is yellowishwhite or strawcolor most yello'sdsh in the quadrivittatuslemniscatus specimen while the two smallest specimens have it whitish or ashywhite.
In some irrespective of size the venter in the cephalic fourth or fifth of the body is immaculate while in others it is with spots like the ground color of the dorsum the venter posteriorly may be almost solid in color like the dorsum.
In some the chin and throat area may be immaculate yellow yellomshwhite or white or the gulars may be slightly grayish.
In all the infralabials have black borders as have the supralaliials but the intensity of this color varies.
Two specimens have no postocular band at all one of the smaller ones has it indistinct another has it on one side and absent on the other and two have it very prominent.
Only two have the darker black prefrontal cross band on posterior margins.
The presence or absence of head bands in this assemblage of snakes is too variable and individualistic a character to be of much weight in separating species.
Some of our specimens have the head uniform like the body color others are with distinct head bands.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The six specimens vary in length from 68.7144 cm. the tail from 12.827 cm.
or 5.06.2 times in the total length.
The gastrosteges range from 231243 or average 236 the urosteges are 7192 or average 85 anal divided in No.
6135 entire the oculars are 12 except in No.
6135 where 12 and 22 the upper preocular coming from the forward part of a normal 164 Mar. supraocular supralabials 8 except in one specimen where 8 on the left side and 9 on the right side eye resting on the ith and 5th supralabials infralabials 11 or 12 temporals variable in three specimens 23 as in C. spiloides Dum.
and Bib. in one 23 on one side and 21 on the other in another 23 and 24 in a sixth 23 and 34 the last a duplicate of Cope's figure 196 p. 851 for C. laclus B. and G. and strangely enough the 23 condition barely escapes being 12 in fact in just these six specimens on one side or on the other we practically have duplicates of the temporal scutellations of Cope's figures 191196 namely for C. rosaceus quadriviUatus spiloides obsoletus obsoletus ohsoletus lemniscatiis and ketus  rather too strong an individualistic a variation in a localized collection of six to make it a stable and cardinal character of primary dictinction.
Fig.
9.
 Elaphe obsoletus Say.
The scale formulas are 292919 for two specimens 292719 272719 262919 252717 from 923 keeled rows of scales anterior chin shields touching 4th and 5th infralabials.
Our specimens agree best with Coluber spiloides Dum.
and Bib. although equally well with C. obsoletus confinis if Cope's first temporal scale be considered abnormal for this form.
One specimen seems a good C. obsoletus lemniscatus if not more than an incipent C. quadriviUatus.
All in all if the supposed diagnostic characters of these four break down in a collection of six snakes from one isolated environment one must question the weight to be attached to such distinctions.
Habits.
 This agile and slender snake is the most arboreal snake of the swamp.
Its compressed body with the gastrostegal keels on either side where the sides abruptly meet the venter suggests an arboreal form and its habits confirm the belief.
This species was found along the water courses near Billy's Lake.
Here they climb up the bushes and small trees which skirt some of the streams of the swamp.
Our first specimen was 6 feet up above the water and they have ascended 10 or more feet in our few experiences with them.
They are probably far more common than our collection might imply but their position the cover of the dense herbage and the color of the body all make them rather difficult to find.
Breeding.
 This is an ovoviviparous snake and three specimens taken June 1 3 and 15 1912 had the eggs quite immature.
One had 18 on the left side and 15 on the right side another had 14 in all 8 on the right side and 6 on the left side.
Food.
 No doubt this form secures much of its food in the bushes and trees it so commonly frequents and true to the reputation of E. ohsoletus of the north this Okefinokee representative proves an enemy of the birds.
The natives steadfastly held that it ate birds' eggs and young.
One specimen had partaken of some kind of eggs and a second individual had birds' feathers in its stomach.
A third snake had eaten the pinewood's tree frog Hyla femoralis.
This species also frequents the islands and feeds on the ground.
Here they do damage to the groundnesting birds as many of the other species of snakes do.
They also often enter poultry yards for rats and mice as well as the hens' eggs.
One of the native boys brought us a pilot snake which he claimed was caught in the act of swallomng a hen's egg and stomach contents substantiated his claim.
They report that they have taken some which had eaten as many as ten at one time.
None of these six snakes had parasites.
8.
Lampropeltis doliatus COCCineus Schlegel Scarlet King Snake Red King Snake Coral Snake.
Fig.
7.
Six specimens of this fine leautiful snake were taken on Billy's Island.
The nearest records are from Fernandina Fla. C. F. Batchelder and from Gainesville Fla. J.
Bell.
Each of these Cope accredits to the form Osceola elapsoidea Holbrook.
Coloration.
 Ground color scarlet fainter below covered with 1420 pairs of black rings on the body from head to anus and with 36 pairs on the tail.
These rings inclose white or yellowish intervals which are 11 1 scales wide on the dorsum and 23 scales wide on the side the black rings themselves each being 24 scales wide.
In only one specimen.
No.
6240 do the rings completely and perfectly encircle the body for its entire length and in the caudal region the abdominal white interval has a black spot between the black rings.
In the other specimens the rings just fall short of meeting each other on the venter and sometimes their ends alternate.
Frequently the black bands of a pair have their ends uniting with each other send not with opposite ends.
Occasionally the process goes farther and on the sides a black bar extends from one black band to another across the white interval and we have part of a white interval completely encircled by black dorsally and ventrally as well as on the sides.
The black band on the neck is not complete on the ventral side in any of the six individuals ahead of it comes a white or yellowishwhite interval narrower on the dorsum but wider on the sides where it extends across the angle of the mouth onto the upper posterior labials and on the lower surface of the head.
The black occipital bar in one specimen is limited to one occipital in the others it generally reaches to the temporals and the posterior edge of the frontal and the supraoculars.
In one specimen there is a black band back of the eye and in another the occipital black bar covers the occipitals most of the frontal all of the supraoculars postoculars and 1st temporal and the upper surface of the two posterior supralabials.
Sometimes the supralabials near the eye and rarely a few infralaials immediately below may have dark margins.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The total length varies from 23.757.6 cm.
 the tail 3.48.9 cm.
or 67.2 times in the total length the gastrosteges are 172189 the urosteges 3948 anal entire the supralabials 7 infralabials 8 except on one side of No.
6240 where there are 9 the oculars are 12.
From a study of these six specimens from one locality we were led to conclude that Lampropeltis doliatus coccineus and Osceola elapsoidea were the same form and this conclusion came independently of the previous judgments of Brown Brimley and others.
Brown says ''tje head plates and scales are becoming variable specimens being found without a loreal and with the scales reduced to nineteen rows.
This extreme reduction is Osceola elapsoidea B. and G. and is not common but intermediate stages are frequent out of some thirty specimens colored as in coccineus I have met with two without a loreal and with 19 rows.
The case is peculiar.
If constant the distinction would be a generic one on the other hand the importance of the character involved would seem to lift it out of the ordinary category of intergradation for we apparently have a subspecies being transformed under our eyes.
On 2 Brown A. E. A Review of the Genera and Species of American Snakes North of Mexico Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. LIII 1901 p. 74. the whole it may accord best with a sound method to take no note of this form at its present stage.
C. S. Brimley says that in his experience the normal formula is scales in 19 rows occasionally 17 or 21 one temporal in first row occasionally two and loreal usually present but sometimes absent on one or both sides.
 Only in his Florida specimens were the scales in 17 rows.
Like these our specimens have a greater reduction in number of scale rows than Cope's material the formulae being 171515 171915 171915 171917 171917 171917.
This is a reduction far beyond the 21 rows of Cope's and Brown's descriptions and if anything below the better normal of Brimley.
So in this respect our specimens incline towards Osceola elapsoidea.
Furthermore only in the specimen No.
6100 with this reduction carried farthest 171515 do we have the loreals of both sides absent but it is one of the largest of the six specimens'.
In this individual the prefrontal has descended to the level of the labial and in the forms Lv d. coccineus with loreals these plates must be derived from the prefrontal.
In No.
6242 the loreal is very small and linear while in No.
6240 it is normal and quadrangular on one side and triangular on the other the apex not even touching the preocular.
In 3 specimens Nos.
6101 the smallest 6241 6249 the largest the loreal is present on both sides and a prominent quadrangular plate from the preocular to the nasal.
Habits.
 This species is more or less of a burrower but a glance at some of the largest specimens suggests Elaphe snakes in their compressed deep bodies with sides sharply defined from the venter by a ridge.
Such elaphine snakes climb well and of such evidence in L. d. coccineus we have only the capture of a snake taken June 6 1912.
It was found on one of the frames of an old building the snake being 314 feet above the ground.
Food.
 In food habits this species is more or less of a constrictor.
It feeds on ground lizards skinks swifts and other snakes and insects.
In the stomach of No.
6242 we found an angleworm and the remains of two killifishes suggesting more of any aquatic nature than usually ascribed but after every rain Billy's Island is covered with little water pools containing fish which as evaporation goes on become stranded.
Such Avould be easy of capture.
Our specimens yielded no clue to the oviparity or breeding of this species.
33 Brimley C. S. Notes on the Scutellation of the Red King Snake Ophibolus doliatus coccineus Schlegel Jour.
Elisha Mitchell Soc XXI No.
4 December 190.5 pp.
14.5148.
9.
Lampropeltis getulus getulus Linn.
 King Snake Common King Snake Chain Snake Ttiunder Snake Thunder and Lightning Snake Wamper Wampum Snake Rattlesnake Pilot.
Plate III fig.
2 fig.
10.
Thirteen specimens of this fine snake were taken and many more seen.
It is common throughout the drier parts of the swamp and frequents the outskirts of the swamp as well.
It keeps to the islands and none were taken in other situations than the saw palmetto or heath societies of the piney woods where it courses through the low cover after its living prey or eggs.
Okefinokee swamp comes within the supposed range of L. g. getulus and is considerably east of Louisiana where L. g. sayi is recorded.
The nearest records of L. g. getulus are from Fernandina Fla. C. F. Batchelder Gainesville Fla. J.
Bell and Nashville Ga. W. J. Taylor.
Coloration.
 Most of the specimens at hand vary from a light to a deep brown.
Five are shining blackishbrown in body color but these are among the smallest specimens of the collection.
All thirteen have white or yellowish crossbands which may be from 2325 in number on the body proper rarely as low as 18 and from 510 on the tail.
Often these bands are incomplete and appear only on one side with none corresponding on the other side and frequently in such specimens the crossbands may be diagonal  not strict crossbands in many of the specimens the bifurcations on the sides are absent and the crossband scales of the dorsum have dark body color tips which at times so blacken the scales as to interrupt the bands completely.
In one specimen the band was very indistinct.
These bands are normally 12 scales wide on the dorsum or rarely 2 rarely 35 scales wide on the sides where the bands bifurcate bordering a spot of body color.
These lateral spots alternate with similar dorsal areas and are from 37 scales wide and occupy the lower 2 or 3 rows of scales as well as the ends of 35 gastrosteges.
The dark dorsal areas are 710 scales wide in some they are a beautiful shining black or deep brown in two or three of the specimens each scale of the cephalic half of the body has a pale central spot in three specimens with shining black body color the first four to six dark areas back of the head had patches of scales with white centres as conspicuous as the cross bands themselves suggestive of L. g. splendidus finally one brown No.
6218 king snake has all the scales with every centre of the same intensity of color as the conspicuous crossbands very suggestive of L. g. sayi.
The venter is of the same color as the crossbands and is heavily blotched with black due in part to the extension of the lateral spots on the gastrosteges.
All the head plates are conspicuously marked with white or yellowish spots particularly so in No.
6218.
The three subspecies getulus sayi and splendidus intergrade so imperceptibly and specimens from one region sometimes reveal all the supposed distinguishing characters.
Dimensions and Variations.
 These specimens vary from 67.6144.4 cm.
2 ft. 1 in.4 ft. 9 in.
and the tail from 9.119.3 cm.
7.49 in the total length the gastrosteges are 214223 or average 218 urosteges are 4154 or average 49 the scales are 212119 in eight of the specimens and the other formulas are 212319 222119 232119 twice 232319 the oculars are 12 supralabials 7 infralabials 9 or 10 temporals may deviate from 23 the formula for ten specimens one specimen has thern 13 another has 22 and a third 23 on one side and 24 on the other the loreal is present in all and in No.
6218 sayiWkQ specimen there are two on the left side.
The anal is entire in No.
6139 it is entire but the gastrostege ahead is divided and in No.
6140 the anal plate is divided into three parts.
6148 6138 6142 Fig.
10.
 Lampropeltis getulus getulus Linn.
Habits.
 This species is one of the most strikingly marked snakes of the swamp.
The shining black or brown with the contrasting white or yellow crossbands makes its appearance very attractive.
In nature it is mild proves an interesting and safe pet and in no instance during our stay in the swamp did it display any tendency toward belligerency or sullenness toward any member of the party.
Food.
 The natives recognize its goodnature and consider it harmless though the king of the snakes.
They are aware of its usefulness as an enemy of moccasins and rattlesnakes and report several combats which always resulted successfully for the king snake but these unlettered people unlike many sentimental writers do not hold that the king snake deliberately searches for the poisonous snakes in particular.
We as they believe it the enemy of ever' species of snake in the swamp preying of course more on the terrestrial species of its own haunts.
All the smaller snakes suffer and of the larger species the blacksnake and spreading adder are the commonest prey.
It is surely a good pilot to the naturalist whenever one finds it digging for it almost invariably means other snakes eggs or some good capture.
It will seldom fail to react per schedule if you loosely hold it in one hand and a live blacksnake in the other.
Almost before you can predict the outcome the former may be far within its captor  a demonstration we have tried more than once in the field.
It is especially fond of young snakes.
One of our specimens had taken a newly hatched Heterodon and the natives recounted several occasions when they had found it working beneath a log for what proved a brood of young snakes.
We do not doubt but that it feeds on mice rats and other small mammals but of such evidence we found little in the swamp.
Possibly in early spring or in the fall these are more its reliance.
The principal food of this species is turtles' eggs with snakes or their eggs a second choice.
Four of our specimens had eaten Florida cooters' Chrysemys floridana eggs which they dug out of the sand and two had mud turtle Cino sternum pennsylvdnicum eggs in their stomachs.
Mr. Francis Harper tells us that he and David Lee almost stepped on a king snake.
After their recovery what should they find but a Kinosternon digging in sand probably preparatory to laying and the king snake was close at hand.
In fact so addicted are they to this egg diet that the natives consider that it is a common happening to find the snake awaiting the egg deposition.
Unless it be the Florida bear there is no form in the swamp which eats turtles' eggs in such quantity as the king snake.
It will take a whole nest of eggs at one time as many as 14 being found in the stomach of one snake.
Breeding.
 Of the breeding habits of this species we have a few scant notes.
Mr. Harper reports a pair of them mating on May 19 1912 and says another king snake was watching the pair.
One of our specimens No.
6145 taken June 13 1912 had 7 fairsized eggs.
Only one of the specimens had parasites and this had two large parasitic worms 30 mm.
long fastened to the outside of the esophagus and lying in the body cavity.
10.
Cemophora COCCinea Blumenbach Scarlet Snake Coral Snake Red Snake.
Plate III.
fig.
3.
One specimen of the scarlet snake was captured on Billy's Island by one of the native boys.
This appears to be one of the rarer snakes of the swamp six of the scarlet king snakes being taken to the lone one of this species.
This species extends from Maryland to Florida and westward to the Mississippi Valley.
Coloration.
 The color of the back is a salmonpink brighter anteriorly the back and sides with 20 pairs of black halfrings the first on the head the 16th just back of the anus and the last two rather indistinct.
The black halfrings are widest dorsally on the sides the black rings of a pair approach each other soon to diverge again as the 4th2d rows of scales are reached.
An irregular black spot on the 1st row of scales at the lower end of each white interval sometimes unites the ends of two halfrings bands between halfrings ivorywhite with very fine dots all over the scales.
Width of each black halfring usually two scales but one scale wide half way down the sides the interval usually three scales wide.
The first black band narrow and extending from 1st temporal along the anterior margins of the occipital plates to the 1st temporal of the other side.
First temporal may be entirely or half black.
The gastrosteges almost entirely free of markings.
Dimensions.
 The total length is 36.4 cm.
 the tail 5.4 cm.
or 6f in total length the gastrosteges 169 urosteges 19 anal entire but a half gastrostege ahead of it temporals 12 the nasal divided below nostril supralabials 6 eye resting on the 2d and 3d supralabials infralabials 7 loreal point almost enters eye's orbit on the left side but is more remote on the right side.
Breeding.
 This specimen taken June 20 had three white eggs which were very elongate and with thin membranous integument.
They were respectively 34 35 35 mm.
long.
11.
TropidonotUS taxispilotUS Holbrook Water Moccasin Pied Water Snake Browa Water Snake Water Rattle Water Pilot Aspic.
Only eleven specimens of this species were taken yet it is common along Billy's and Minne's Lakes Log River and all the more open water courses.
It was not far from the Okefinokee Swamp that Holbrook secured one of his two specimens for his original description namely from Altamaha River.
The natives were not anxious to help us in the captures of this species.
Coloration.
 The coloration is a light chocolateor reddishbrown sometimes rusty with a series of three rows of large subquadrate or rectangular spots the dorsal row varying from 2327 dark brown or black spots before the anus and 1518 behind the anus the averages being 25 and 16 respectively.
Anteriorly the spots are 34 scales wide and posteriorly 23 scales wide.
Li transverse width the larger spots cover 810 rows of scales.
Alternating with the dorsal spots is a row on either side.
These spots cover from the 1st to the 10th row of scales.
Normally the lateral and doreal spots do not touch as the descriptions assert but in almost every specimen one or tw sets particularly in the middle of the body are connected by a black line 1 scale wide.
The venter is white or yellowish.
Holbrook's description Most of them gastrosteges with a black spot at either extremity and the centre dotted minutely with black applies to some of the younger specimens very well and in almost all the older individuals the same coloration can be discovered namely two rows of squarish black blotches with a dusted lighter Hne down the middle of the belly.
Rarely the black obscures all semblance of pattern.
The gular gastrosteges usually are without the lateral spots and the whole anterior edge is black bordered the head is like the body in color the lower labials have a fine dusted appearance.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The specimens vary in length from 63130.5 cm. all except four being over 100 cm.
 in the largest specimen 130.5 cm.
the tail is 30.5 cm.
long and the tail is contained in the length in the eleven specimens from 35J times 4 or 4J being the riormal.
The gastrosteges are 130142 or average 135 the urosteges are 6270 the average 67 far below the 7090 of Cope and Brown.
Anal plate usually divided in three specimens with a half gastrostege ahead of it and in one or two a whole gastrostege divided otherwise this plate anterior to anal plate is entire in No.
6111 the anal is entire and in No.
6224 it is also entire with a faint transverse median furrow extending halfway backward toward the anus.
The scale rows are far below 3133 rows the combinations being 272721 282822 293122 292921 twice 293023 293022 303025 302922 302823 313121 or in the middle of the body from 2731 not 2931 or 3133 as discovered in other members of this genus.
In fact only two have 31 and only three 30 in the middle of the body.
The oculars are 12 the supralabials 8 the eye resting on the 4th except in rare cases when over the 4th and 5th the infralabials 1012 temporals 24 in eight instances 25 in six and 23 in three cases.
Habits.
 This snake is par excellence the snake of the open water courses in the swamp or narrow runs just wide enough for a boat.
Either along Log River or Minne Lake Run one can hear a succession of pied water snakes as they drop off into the water.
They may climb upon the dead branches or live shrubs which line the water courses or rest on the little islets or verdant hummocks where many an individual is hidden.
Particularly does one find them in the latter situations on the hottest days and not infrequently we have approached close enough on such days to club them.
As they shoot into the water sometimes the pied belly reveals that it is T. taxispilotus and not T. fosciatus or any of its subspecies.
The pied water snakes are very large and in general very shy and elusive.
We had been in the swamp for 2h weeks before we captured our first specimens although some of us passed them daily.
At first we had to shoot them as they rested in the open on branches 23 feet above the water.
Then their capture was not always certain for we often lost them because of our caution in landing them.
The natives are afraid of them and whoever has wounded or had experiences with this species in its wild state knows they are vicious and belligerent when hard pressed.
The natives call them water moccasin and consider them as poisonous as rattlesnakes or true moccasins.
Once when one of us was bitten by a mediumsized specimen the Lees awaited the result with considerable solicitude for the supposed unfortunate.
After two weeks of attempts we were growing impatient because we had taken none of the largest individuals and Alligator Joe one of the visitors when fishing stunned a water moccasin and considerately put it in the prow of his boat.
We had almost reached him when the snake revived and in the twinkling of an eye he had thrown his present into the lake with his oar.
Man and live water moccasin in the same boat was not conceivable.
And there is plenty of reason for our common respect for this large water snake which reaches 5 or barely 6 feet.
The largest specimen secured measured 4 feet.
Several specimens in hand measure in girth from 78 inches and we are positive we have seen individuals with a circumference of 1012 inches.
Especially is this true of the females as the embryos develop.
Then the skin is so distended that j to  of an inch or more separates each of the scales.
Breeding.
 This species is ovoviviparous.
The specimens taken in the middle of June showed the developmental stages little advanced.
One specimen No.
6113 2 feet 10 inches long had only 14 embryos while another 4 feet long and about 8 inches in circumference had 40 embryos.
It is rather a significant fact that all the larger individuals taken are females.
Either the large males were too fast for us or the females are larger or occupy more exposed positions and may prove more sluggish or braver.
The individuals taken from July 15November 1 1912 showed the embryos much farther advanced and some had unborn embryos 26 or more cm.
long.
One specimen No.
6256 had 58 embryos 32 on the left side and 26 on the right side.
The normal number seems to be 3540 embryos.
Food.
 This animal will eat almost any animal which it finds in the water or above it provided it can swallow or capture it.
One specimen No.
6116 had two frogs Rana sp.
in its stomach another No.
6260 had a small warmouth Chcenobryitus gulosus and a third had other fish remains which were not to be identified.
Five of the individuals had internal parasites in the stomach or about y of all the snakes so troubled were of this species.
12.
Tropidonotus fasciatus Linnaeus Moccasin Water Moccasin Southern Water Snake Banded Water Snake.
Fig.
11.
Ten snakes not of T. taxispilotus were taken in the swamp.
These are so variable in coloration and also in scutellation that we hesitate to add to the confusion which obtains in the interpretation of the fasciatus group.
Many varieties subspecies geographical races forms or phases have entered the literature of North American Natrices and these are based mainly on temporal and ocular scutellation number of scale rows and coloration.
These cannot all be assigned faunistic or geographical areas and most of them are as yet likely to appear in one region if a large series be taken.
The group is very variable and some of the forms designated may be variants struggling to assume a stable varietal form or geographical place.
As yet however this gamut of variation apparently appears independent of geographical environments and is almost possible if not actually existent in one region.
Therefore the safer and more conservative course is to place them together and not take any Cratcegus course until more certain of our ground.
Intensive localized study and possible breeding as well as extensive geographical collecting with few personal equations seem the hopeful solution of the question.
Coloration.
 The smallest specimen No.
6227 in coloration is T. rhomhifera Hallowell.
There are 32 dorsal diamondshaped rhombs from the vent forward.
These are formed by oblique bars which connect the upper angles of the lateral row of spots with the alternating dorsal row.
The species T. rhomhifera is considered to be a Mississippi Valley and Texan form yet this specimen certainly accords with Cope's and Brown's descriptions of T. rhombifera and Ditmar's figure of it.
Cope held that it rarely had 25 scales but Brown finds that more than half of his specimens were with 25 rows and we firmly believe 23 not out of the range of this color variation.
Thus its limit clearly overlaps the supposed 2325 range of T. fasciatus.
The specimen at hand has 232318 scales.
The venter has each gastrostege yellow with the border black.
Posteriorly each urostege is blackbordered thus giving two rows of yellow spots and the under surface of the tail consequently looks darker than the anterior ventral region.
These black borders unite on either end of the gastrostege and thus enclose a transverse elliptical central area of yellow.
Also along each end of the gastrostege opposite the lateral spot of the side the gastrostegal black border encloses another small area of yellow.
Thus we have a central row of transverse yellow gastrostegal spots and a row on either end of smaller encircled yellow spots very much like the venter of T. compressicaudus Kennicott see description Brown p. 34.
This species is Floridan and might enter the Okefinokee.
Furthermore T. compressicaudus walkeri has 23 rows of scales as has our specimen.
Finally our specimen rJiomhiferYike on dorsum except for the neck has on the neck four black longitudinal bands the two of either side being connected posteriorly.
The labials are yellowish with dark borders.
There are no bands on the head.
Many of our specimens  in fact practically all  have the tail quite strongly compressed at its base and heavily carinated and an examination of supposed T. f. erythrogaster T. f. transversa T. cycloyium and T. rhombifera material from other localities does not impress us that this relative character is sufficient to set T. compressicaudus apart as a separate form from T. fasciatus.
Eight of the ten specimens have no more than 23 scales and always this number in the middle of the body three having 232319 two 232317 one 232318 one 232320 and one 212319.
Some of these may well be T. f. pictiventris and were so identified in the field with only Cope's work at hand.
This form he restricts to Florida and he has specimens from Gainesville and Palatka not far from the Okefinokee.
He considers it close to T. compressicaudus in coloration of the belly.
But some of our specimens clearly have the compressicauduspictiventris coloration to which there is added the reddish abdominal spots of T. fasciatus fasciatus.
One specimen No.
6228 has no lateral or dorsal spots apparent the belly an immaculate salmonpink except under the tail where a bluishgray enters and the scales strongly carinated  all characters of T. fasciatus erythrogaster.
Some specimens show the lateral space with reddish or reddishbrown of T. fasciatus fasciatus.
Some of the ten showed the yellowish labials with strong black borders and most of these individuals have the two light dots close to the suture of the occipitals.
One specimen No.
6119 is a uniform grayish or greenishbrown on the back including the head which has no postocular band and the belly is whitish or yellowishwhite with hardh' any suggestion of gastrostegal borders fadedout brown.
Another very large specimen with a few reddish bars evident on the sides has a yellow venter with black gastrostegal borders not strong but on the end of each gastrostege the blueblack of the back encroaches for f of an inch and makes a striking lateral border for the yellow of the middle of the venter.
Finally we have another specimen No.
6231 with scales 212521 and dorsum grayishblack above.
The only marks evident are transverse white dorsal bands J scale wide which become less distinct as the belly is reached.
The entire underparts are grayishwhite with gastrostegal borders grayishblack.
These borders surrounding the urosteges make two rows of encircled spots on the under surface of the tail.
It is we believe a T. fasciatus yet far from the ordinary coloration.
Dimensions and Variations.
 These specimens vary in length from 28118.7 cm. the tail from 7.929 cm. or 3.54.5 average 3.7 in the whole length gastrosteges are from 123133 the urosteges 6225 6116 6119 6225 6116 6231 Fig.
11.
 Tropidonotus fasciatus Linn..
from 6785 supralabials 8 infralabials 10 rarely 11 sometimes 1011 as in two specimens or 1112 as in one the temporals are 13 in seven specimens in one of which on both sides the first temporal has captured the normal third temporal of the second row in No.
6118 the temporals are 12 in No.
6226 12 on the undestroyed side in No.
6225 13 on the right side and 12 on the left side.
The oculars are 13 in eight specimens but one of these No.
6116 has the upper and lower postoculars Avith a strong start towards subdivision which if completed might give 5 oculars in all in No.
6119 the oculars are 12 and No.
6231 on its undestroyed side has 12.
Thus we see in ten specimens a strong tendency for the temporal and ocular formulae to vary.
The published evidence and material at hand at the present date is not sufficient to determine whether T. compressicaudus and its subspecies T. bisectiis T. fasciatus and its subspecies and T. rhombifera are other than of the T. fasciatus assemblage and thus we would be inclined to treat them until the group is very carefully collected bred and studied from a large series from several of their supposed geographical habitats.
Habits.
 This species was not so common as the pied water snake.
Like it however this snake is called ''water moccasin by the natives who fear it.
One evening one of us accidentally punctured his thumb on the teeth of a recently killed snake of this species..
The next morning several of the native family very concernedly wished to see how bad the thumb would be.
Unlike the pied water snake it is fairly common on the water prairies and about the edges of the islets houses or heads of the prairies.
We also took this species in the water ditches on the outskirts of the swamp and along the lumber railroad ditches.
We were unable to find a single snake of this species along the larger water courses where the pied water snake apparently replaces it.
It seems to be more a form of the moist situations on the islands and possibly in the wooded swampy parts.
In disposition it is like other water snakes but is a poor second to its relative T. taxispilotus in pugnacity.
Food.
 It feeds largely on aquatic animals.
One specimen No.
6116 taken May 30 1912 had two frogs of the most aquatic species of the swamp Rana sp.
in its stomach and two Nos.
6231 and 6115 had taken a southern meadow frog Rana pipiens sphenocephala.
Only one of the ten had parasites in its stomach.
13.
Storeria dekayi Holbrook DeKay's Snake DeKay's Browo Snake Little Brown Snake Brown Snake Ground Snake Spotted Snake Spotted Adder Brown Grass Snake.
Fig.
12.
Two specimens Nos.
6237 6239 were secured between July 15 and November 1 1912 by Mr. Jackson Lee of Billy's Island.
This form and its congener the redbellied snake are commonly associated with dry grounds but certainly at some seasons within the swamp it must find it impossible to find such a habitat and it may be less averse to wet situations than once thought.
Coloration.
 Both specimens have the usual grayishbrown or ashgray on the upper surface with the pale vertebral line bordered by black dots.
The venter is white or yellowishwhite in alcohol and the row of dots near either end of the gastrostege is present.
Besides these there are finer clots widely separated over the whole belly.
The neck has a black band extending from the ends of gastrosteges Nos.
35 across the angle of the mouth to the middorsal line where it meets its fellow of the other side.
In front of this bar a white band of belly color reaches across the sixth and seventh infralabials and on the sixth and seventh supralabials.
The 3d5th supralabials and the same infralabials are almost entirely black.
12 178 Mar. Several of the other labials are with large black spots or margins.
The dorsal head plates of body color are with a strong sprinkling of black.
One specimen No.
6239 superficially looks almost as black as the specimen of the redbellied species did.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The gastrosteges were 135 and 138 respectively the urosteges 62 and 48.
The total lengths were 24.4 cm.
and 29.3 cm.
 the tails 5.8 and 5.2 cm.
or 4j and 5f in the total length.
There are 7 supralabials with the eye resting on the 3d and 4th the infralabials 7 no loreal temporals 12 anal plate divided in one specimen with a half gastrostege in front of it.
The oculars of No.
6237 are 12 on both sides but on the right side the preocular is almost divided into two while No.
6239 the oculars are 22.
This character coupled with the scales 151515 in both specimens raises the query whether 15 or 17 rows of scales and 2 or 1 6287 6237 6239 6238 6238 Fig.
12.
 Upper figures Sloreria dekayi Holb.
maculata Storer .
rorrra Lower figures S. occipitopreoculars are constant differences between S. occipitomaculata and S. dekayi as commonly held.
Besides the redbellied specimen shows greater variation in preoculars by being 3 instead of 2.
Habits.
 This species is nocturnal spending the day beneath logs and stones in rocky situations as well as in meadows.
Several times the authors have found it in low fields near a marshy stream.
Food and Breeding.
 The DeKay's snake is not wholly insectivorous as one specimen had 8 gastropods shells missing in its stomach.
One specimen had 17 small developing eggs 14 being on the left side.
Inasmuch as this was taken after July 15 this would doubtless indicate that this particular specimen of this ovoviviparous species would not have given birth to young until late summer or early fall.
14.
Storeria occipitomaculata Storer Redbellied Snake Storer's Snake Brown Snake Ground Snake Storer's Grass Snake.
One specimen No.
6238 taken on Billy's Island between July 15 and November 1 1912 after our departure.
This comes well within the range of the species.
This small largely nocturnal inhabitant beneath stones logs and other cover usually averages smaller than S. dekaiji and our specimen proves smaller than the two specimens of the latter species taken in the swamp.
The tail is lost the specimen measuring 17.9 cm.
to the vent.
The gastrosteges are 120 scales 151515 temporals 12 supralabials 6 infralabials 7.
Unlike most of the descriptions the ocular formulae are 32 for both sides instead of the 2 preocular condition usually noted.
On the right side of the head appears a small supranasal above the nostril and at the common corner of the internasal prefrontal and two nasals.
On the left side is a similar plate not touching the internasal.
Other specimens from other Georgian localities Dr. J. C. Bradley collector reveal no such condition and the present specimen may have had some accident although it is not especially apparent.
The head in front of the three occipital color spots is much darker than the rest of the body in alcohol it looks black  in fact darker than any other specimen of the species we have ever recorded.
The characteristic light spot of the fifth supralabial is however not wholly obscured.
This specimen like Hay's record had a slug in its stomach and insect remains in its rectum.
15.
Haldea Striatula Linn.
 Brown Snake Worm Snake Ground Snake Little Striped Snake.
Plate III fig.
4.
One specimen was secured on Billy's Island.
In the Central States this small snake extends from Minnesota to Texas while in the Eastern States its range from Virginia southward has not its southern limit well determined.
We can find no definite locus beyond W. J. Taylor's Cope 1900 p. 1010 record for Nashville Ga. which is 50 miles northwest of the Okefinokee Swamp.
Ditmars gives it as extending to Florida where it might well be but in this State Loennberg 1895 pp.
317339 did not secure it.
Coloration.
 The field description of the color of this specimen is as follows  Color of the back with the skin bluish and scales brownish or opalescent each scale with fine speckings which sometimes assume a black edge on the cephalic end of the scale.
The color of the dorsal scales extends onto the ends of the gastrosteges fine speckings accompanying it.
The gastrosteges are greenishyellow or opalescent.
A pinkishlike area occurs on the side of the head.
It crosses the last lower labial the 4th and 5th upper labials and first temporal and cephalic ends of the second row of temporals.
It then fades as it crosses the middle of the occipital plates.
The 34 1907.
The Reptile Book p. 271. venter of this adult did not impress us as salmoncolored.
The total length is 223 mm.
and the tail 34 mm or 6 times in the total length.
In other specimens from other regions the short tail ranges from 57j in the total length.
The longest specimen of this species we have seen reached 283 mm.
There is no particular deviation from the normal in the scutellation of this specimen.
The eye rests on the 4th supralabial and on the posterior end of the third supralabial.
The ventral plates are 134 the subcaudals 37.
Habits.
 This specimen was found a rod from the thick swampy cypress edge of Billy's Island.
Associated with it was one of the few salamanders found on the trip.
The ground was decidedly moist yet the vegetation was of the pinebarren type.
Inasmuch as it was under the cover of a more or less disintegrated log when taken midforenoon we conclude that it is distinctly a nocturnal form.
This specimen had no food within its alimentary tract but its habitat and previous assertions regarding its food suggest that it feeds on worms larvae of insects etc.
Breeding.
 It is well established that this species is ovo viviparous.
Hay p. 397 discovered a female with 5 embryos.
Strecker p. 50 has a specimen with seven embryos and Ditmars 1907 p. 272 records that a captive gave birth to seven young on the 20th of August.
This lone female secured June 15 1912 has six embryos.
These masses in length range from 1518 mm.
 in width from 67 mm.
The membrane about each is practically transparent the embryo lays in the middle of one side presenting an apparent cephalic and caudal yolk mass which actually on the opposite side proves continuous from one end to the other.
In this species we discovered no parasites external or internal and of its enemies know nothing.
16.
Thamnophis sauritus saokeni Kennicott  Southern Ribbon Snake Southern Riband Snake OstenSacken's Snake.
Fig.
13.
Ten specimens in all were taken within the swamp.
Its occurrence in Okefinokee Swamp proves interesting in the light of Ruthven's distribution map for this species.
He considers it still a question whether this species goes north of the FloridaGeorgia line.
Of it he writes   Hay O. P. The Batrachians and Reptiles of the State of Indiana pp.
409610 Indiana Dept.
Geol.
and Nat.
Resources 17th Ann'l Rept.
1891.
IndianapoHs 1892.
8 Strecker J. K. Jr.
Contributions to Texan Herpetology Baylor Univ.
Bull. Vol.
XII No.
1 January 1909. 
Ruthven A. G. Variations and Genetic Relationships of the Garter Snakes U. S. N. M.
Bull. No.
61 p. 108.
As at present known the range of sackeni is confined to the southern part of the coastal plain in southern Mississippi and Florida.
This physically recent feature with its low altitude nowhere more than a few hundred feet above sea level is characterized by scores of stagnant rivers lakes lagoons and swamps.
The temperature and humidity are high and the rainfallevaporation ratio exceeds 110 per cent.
Transeau 1905.
The vegetation is rich and consists of such forms as white cedar sweet bay magnolia tupelo gum swamp cottonwood cypress Quercus texana etc. in the swamps and several species of pines on the higher ground.
As far as I have been able to find the form has never been recorded outside of Florida although Ditmars 1907 p. 219 states that it is distributed in the 'coast regions of South Carolina and Georgia Florida generally.'
Certainly typical sackeni may be expected to occur somewhat north of the latitude of the northern boundary of Florida but in this general region it comes in contact with sauritus and the status of the two forms in the intermediate region must be examined before the northern boundary of sackeni can be even approximately fixed.
I must confess to have examined but few specimens from the debatable region but the fact that sauritus specimens from the coastal plain from North Carohna northward show a much closer affinity to sackeni than those from central Alabama would seem to indicate that true sackeni pushes farther up the Atlantic coast than in the interior possibly into Georgia and South Carolina as Ditmars indicates which might also be expected in view of its more aquatic habits and its association with the coastal plain conditions throughout the greater part of its range.
Coloration.
 A color description of a live specimen captured on Billy's Lake is as follows The venter is opalescent with an opalescent coppery brown on the ends of the gasfcrosteges.
In water the two lower rows of scales look greenishbrassy and the lateral stripe strawcolored.
The row above the lateral stripe is bordered by a line of black specks the back scales are olive and the dorsal row much like in color the two lowest side rows is defined on either side by fine black specks.
The dorsal row is practically absent on the caudal twothirds of the body.
Black postocular stripe over the upper labials.
Three other specimens in life did not impress us as rich brown or dark as T. sauritus and appeared more slender.
Supplementary notes of color from alcohol and formol specimens are In some specimens the dorsal stripe extends to a position opposite the anus in one individual also along the tail in most however it is prominent only on the neck.
Nowhere does it have the color of the lateral stripes except possibly on the neck region.
When the body is distended the intervals between the scales have regular light specks or lines as T. sauritus.
Rarely the lateral stripes become more or less obscure but not wholly absent.
The dorsal stripe covers the median dorsal rows and two half rows and the lateral stripe is on the 3d and one half on the 4th row of scales.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The specimens vary in length from 3171.5 cm.
1228 inches.
The latter length compares favorably with T. sauritus lengths but the specimens may average smaller than that species though the average of the ten specimens is 48 cm.
19 inches.
The extreme slimness of the species acids to its diminutive appearance.
The tail ranges from 11.223.5 cm.
in length or 2.93.25 average 3 times in the total length.
The gastrosteges vary from 149159 average 154 where Ruthven's extreme begins and almost coincident with his lower extreme for T. sauritus.
In all 6235 g235 6123 Fig.
13.
 Thamnophis sauritus sackeni Kenn..
the anal plate is entire.
The urosteges range from 95114 in better accord with the range of Ruthven's T. proximus and far below his range for T. s. sackeni.
The scale formula is 191917 except in one where only 191717 obtains.
The oculars are 13 except in two instances in one specimen No.
6123 they are 14 on both sides in another No.
6235 they are 23 on the right side and normal on the left the supralabials remain constantly 8 for all the specimens and the eye rests on the 4th and 5th supralabials the infralabials are 10 except in two specimens where 11 were recorded on the right side.
The temporals are usually 12 rarely 13 if the third row be counted it may be 2 or 3 or rareh 4 in number.
All in all the relationships of T. proximus sauritus and sackeni become closer as possible intergrading localities are studied and no distinction proves so constant as the supralabial character which is not absolute.
Habits.
 This attractive snake is to our minds even more aquatic than T. sauritus and may be found about the open water courses on the open prairies along the wooded parts of the Suwanee River in the moist situations of the wooded parts of the islands if not also in the dense cypress thickets.
It is beautiful and is extremely lithe of body.
It frequents the edges of the little houses or islets on the prairies coursing among the water plants like a true water snake.
Of its expert swimming ability we had one fine illustration.
On the widest part of Billy's Lake we noticed a small snake several rods ahead.
It was halfway across in its course.
We raced to head it off and swift and straight it did make its course.
It had almost reached the other shore when one of us hit at it only to see it dive deftly.
It remained under water for a short time and soon reappeared on its back trail.
We circled slowly towards it and when near it stopped.
It came immediately to the boat apparently more from curiosity than from exhaustion.
This species must be accredited with very good aquatic skill and endurance.
Food.
 Its food is mainly small aquatic animals.
In one specimen were insect remains.
Frogs seem to be a prominent food with this species.
Four of the ten had eaten frogs one having two southern meadow frogs Rana pipiens sphenocephala in its stomach and another had one of this same species.
Another snake had captured the cricket frog Acris gryllus and a fourth had eaten a pinewood's tree frog Hyla femoralis all these frogs except the last suggesting an aquatic foraging ground for the species.
Besides the frogs there were indications that they occasionally eat fish and other animals of the water.
Breeding.
 Three specimens taken in the early part of July showed the egg development to be not far advanced.
One had 5 eggs another 8 and one 10.
The number of young of this ovoviviparous snake is comparatively few and must be born in late summer or early fan.
Parasites.
 This species and its relative T. sirtalis ordinatus were badly afflicted by internal parasites.
In one specimen there were parasites in the stomach others partly in the abdominal cavity and partly through the peritoneum and still others solely between the peritoneum and the skin.
In another specimen these occur in the cephalic region and appear from the outside like large protuberances.
They lie just beneath the skin or imbedded in the muscles.
17.
Thamnophis sirtalis ordinatus Linnseus Highland Moccasin Garter Snake Common Garter Snake Grass Snake Little Green Grass Snake Spotted Garter Snake.
The garter snake is common in the swamp and the local name highland moccasin indicates that the natives consider it more upland and terrestrial than the Natrices or Thamnophis s. sackeni.
Coloration.
 The specimens at hand all correspond very closely with T. sirtalis ordinatus Linnaeus though our use of the subspecific name above does not commit us to full recognition of the worth of this subspecies.
The lateral stripe is absent or very indistinct in one or two specimens.
The dorsal stripe is very distinct in only one specimen No.
6221.
In all the others it is entirely absent or indistinct.
In some specimens the three rows of spots of each side show very beautifully on the venter the snakes are bluishgray except for the throat and chin which are yellowishwhite.
There is a black spot near the end of each gastrostege.
In some specimens the cephalic gastrostegal borders are black and thus connect the gastrostegal spot of either end of the gastrostege.
In two specimens these spots are practically absent or obscured.
One example the largest is melanistic in appearance and the end of each gastrostege and its gastrostegal spot is covered with the dark body color.
In all the supralabials are dark edged but the infralabials are immaculate except in two or three of the largest specimens where there are dark edges as on the supralabials.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The fifteen specimens vary in length from 32.778.2 cm.
1328 inches the tail is 717.6 cm.
or 3tV4in the total length average 4  the gastrosteges have a small range from 136146 or average 141 ten of the fifteen have 141 or 140 the urosteges arc 6677 or average 70.
The scale rows are very constant being 191917 except in No.
6223 where they are 191915 the supralabials 7 the infralabials 10 except in one case of 11.
In all the loreal is present and the oculars are consistently 13 except in two specimens where they are 14 on one side six of the specimens have the temporals 12 on both sides one specimen 13 on both sides and eight specimens with the temporals 12 on one side and 13 on the other side.
The anal plate is entire.
Breeding.
 Of this ovoviviparous snake we took only two females with embryos developing.
The largest specimen No.
6160 taken June 26 1912 had 25 embryos or eggs little advanced in development.
Another small specimen had only 8 embryos in it.
From the condition of these eggs birth could not come before the middle of August or later as with our garter of the North.
Food.
 This form was found to be one of the most terrestrial of the snakes of the swamp both in the places where captured and by local reputation and by examination of their food contents.
One snake had eaten the small dwarf or oak toad Bufo quercicus and another had two of this species.
In two instances the larger southern toad Bufo I. lentiginosus proved the prey.
Two others had eaten the narrowmouthed frog Engystoma carolinense and the pinewood's tree frog Hyla femoralis.
In two specimens many small beetles were found in the stomachs with the frogs and one had nothing but beetles.
All except one of the specimens with food had Anura and beetles seemed the second important food of this species.
Parasites.
 Three of these snakes were afflicted with internal parasites.
The natives call this species highland moccasin because of its habitat and because of its supposed poisonous nature.
Certainly it is strange that in their crude way this observing and simple people should have associated it with Tropidonotus as they surely do in calling it highland moccasin in contradistinction to water moccasin.
18.
Ancistrodon piscivorous Lacepede Moccasin Greentailed Moccasin Water Moccasin Cottonmoutii Moccasin Cottonmouth Stumptailed Moccasin.
Fig.
14.
The water moccasin is common in the swamp.
In the three collections from the swamp we have sixteen specimens seven taken between May 29July 15 1912 seven from Julj 15November 1 1912 and two taken in the fall of 1913.
Coloration. The smallest specimen taken measuring 38.3 cm. shows a decided similarity to A. contortrix in coloration only the body color is more brownish than the light brown or drab of the copperhead.
There are thirtytwo vertical bars in twos these individual bars being one or two scales wide.
In the cephalic half of the body two bars of one side alternate with two of the other side.
Two bars form a diamond inclosing an area of the lighter body color.
In this lighter area there is usually a small spot of color like the bars.
In the caudal half of the body the two bars of one side may be opposite two of the other side and unite across the back making a crossband.
On the tail are seven crossbands.
The caudal half of the tail both dorsum and venter is greenishyellow in this small specimen.
This stage of the moccasin the natives consider another species the greentailed moccasin.
Opposite the intervals between two sets of bars and opposite the space inclosed by two bars there is on the end of the gastrostege a black spot 1 the width of the gastrostege.
In the front half of the body the black spots of one side of the venter alternate with those of the other side.
In the caudal region where the sets of bars are opposite each other as are the intervals these gastrostegal spots also are opposite merge and are not so conspicuous.
As the snakes get older the dark ventral blotches become less distinct and the yellow or yellowishwhite ground color of the venter 186 Mar. more dominant the crossbands of the back ahiiost disappear or persist last in the cephalic half of the body also occasionally near the anus.
In all except two of the large specimens the tail is perfectly black on the venter and this usually extends ahead of the anus for 2030 gastrosteges in one large specimen No.
6214 the same ventral area both ahead of the anus and on the underside of the tail was merely heavily blotched with black.
In the young specimens the labials are heavily marked with rich brown which is more or less obscure in adults.
Usually the upper labials in the adults are immaculate or with few dark spots but the infralabials retain more or less of the brownish markings of the young stage.
The postocular brown band bordered below by the yellowish labial line and above by a pale streak is persistent in all.
6210 6210 6129 6127 6215 Fig.
14.
 Ancistrodon piscivorus Lacep.
Dimensions and Variations.
 These specimens vary in length from 38.396.7 cm. the tail 6.515.1 cm. or usually 6 times in the total length the range being 56j times the gastrosteges are 133144 the average 141 the urosteges 4552 the average 48 anal entire usually the first urostege is divided then follows 2530 entire individual urosteges with the remaining caudal ones divided.
The strongly keeled scale rows range from 282523 to 252521 in all the count being 25 around the middle of the body usually the supralabials are 8 in number five of the sixteen specimens however have variations.
One has 7 on the right side and 9 on the left side two specimens 9 and 8 and two 8 and 7 the 3d and 6th supralabials are largest eye resting on the 3d except in three instances where 9 supralabials occur.
Then the eye rests on the 4th because the extralabial comes in the normal second or third area.
The approach to Toxicophis pugnox B. and G. is carried even closer in several.
In No.
6210 with 78 supralabials the triangular point of the second labial has been forced just above the labial border on the right side and on the left side just reaches it in Nos.
6213 on the left side and 6133 on the right side it enters the labial border while in No.
6129 the point is just excluded from the border.
The infralabials range from 1011 the latter number predominating.
Besides the inferior loreal this species occasionally has another loreal in front of the pit as in the copperhead and the absence of this plate is not so constant for A. piscivorus as it might be thought.
In No.
6215 it appears on both sides cut off from supralabial No.
2 in No.
6127 it appears on the left side in Nos.
6130 and 6132 it is on the right side.
Thus in five of the sixteen this distinguishing character between A. contortrix and A. piscivorus appears in the latter.
The temporals may be 22 33 4A 45 54 64 65.
The oculars are usually 23 though 22 24 32 33 34 and 43 also occur.
Habits.
 The moccasin is the Crotaline snake of the swamp.
It frequents the thickety edges of the cypress ponds on the islands occurs around the wooded edges of the water stretches and where the woods of the island's border meet the piney woods also along th watercourses and quite generally through the swamp.
On the prairies they are not so common as in the wet woody parts.
They lie on the little hummocks above the water and slide in at one's approach.
The Okefinokee Swamp is no place for the collector wdio has been reared in harmless snake country where the method of capture is to step on your prey.
One of the authors instinctively tried it on a supposed T. taxispilotus and fortunately just missed one of the biggest of the sixteen moccasins captured.
They are rather sluggish yet those who know poisonous snakes handle them very carefully.
In spite of the presence of so many moccasins the children go barefoot.
On the hunting trips for bear and deer the men of the Lee family frequently travel all day barefoot and Mr. Bryant Lee has twice been bitten in the large toe by a moccasin.
In such cases usually the dogs which are ahead avoid the snake but the hunters immediately behind step on them.
In both of these injuries the patient's leg and part of his side swelled to twice their normal proportions.
He recovered from both experiences.
These simple people could find no cure for it and in the second case thought some ''Cuban relief efficacious.
We suspect the ingredients of this nostrum to be alcohol although we are not positive of it.
The presence of such creatures as alligators alligator snappers and moccasins do not deter the family from swimming.
One day our whole camp and the male members of the Lee family took a swim at Billy's Lake landing and soon a moccasin swam from one hummock to another through the party's midst and the snake was captured as well.
In another instance one of the small boys came into camp Avith a large dead moccasin in one hand and a live spreading adder in the other.
Upon inquiry we found that the boys went in bathing in a small pool 2x6 feet near their house only to find two large moccasins there before them.
One they killed the other escaped.
These side lights which we would think make life precarious shows how the natives view existence in such an environment.
None of our specimens is more than 6 inches in circumference but the Lees assert that they reach 9 or 10 inches or even more.
This snake is dangerous pugnacious and illnatured if tormented or pinned beneath a log or pushed into a corner and care needs to be exercised after your game is supposedly dead for the striking propensity is one of the last to leave the reflexive dead reptile.
As one member of the party a hater of snakes said After it is dead give it two more licks for safety's sake.
Breeding.
 This snake is ovoviviparous.
Two females taken June 10 and 22 1912 respectively each Nos.
6131 6130 had 5 embryos not far advanced.
Another taken June 12 1912 No.
6127 had IQ embryos in about the same stage and another specimen No.
6213 taken between July 15 and November 1 1912 had 5 embryos some of which were not far from hatching.
Food.
 The food of this species is considered to be fish frogs and other aquatic animals.
They seek the transient pools of the islands for stranded killifishes and tadpoles.
One individual had a young softshelled turtle Platijpeltis ferox in its stomach and others fish remains.
The other individuals had each a frog Rana sp.
in the stomach.
Parasites.
 Several of the snakes had in the stomach and intestines parasites among the food and at other times the parasites alone.
In fact only the spreading adder excelled it in the number of specimens with parasites six of the sixteen moccasins having them and these six being  of all the snakes thus afflicted.
19.
Sistrurus miliarius Linnseus Ground Rattler Ground Rattlesnake Small Rattlesnake Pigmy Rattlesnake Southern Pigmy Rattlesnake.
One specimen was taken May 31 1912 four specimens from July 15November 1 1912 by the Lees and another September 1913 by Prof. J. C. Bradley and Paul Battle.
Coloration.
 In coloration they agree very well with the descriptions for the species the red vertebral line being very conspicuous as are the three rows of alternating black spots of either side.
The venter is whitish with numerous black blotches and spots.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The measurements of the six are as follows  GastroTotal No.
steges Urosteges.
length.
Tail.
6243 143 27 35.1cm.
3.7 cm.
6244 136 36 25.5  3.3  6245 132 34 23.5  3.5 '' 6246 143 31 48.3  6.0  6247 135 33 52.3  6.5  6109 146 32 39.5 '' 5.0  SupraInfraNo.
Scales.
labials.
labials.
Rattles.
6243 232320 1011 1111 2 6244 222121 1010 1111 1 6245 212119 1011 1111 1 6246 232317 1010 1111 5 6247 252318 1010 1111 3 6109 252317  1010 1111 5 In all the loreal between preocular and postnasal is present the ocular ring of scales from 69 in number the anal entire.
Habits.
 This species apparently appears second in abundance of the four Crotalids recorded in the swamp the moccasin exceedingit in abundance.
It was the first form of the four to be seen and the first specimen was stepped upon and calmly picked up back of the neck by one member of the party he not being aware that it was poisonous at all.
Breeding.
 Like the other poisonous Crotalids this species is ovoviviparous but the number of young is few usually from five to nine being the range.
One 14inch specimen No.
6243 taken between July 15November 1 1912 has eight mediumsized embryos the caudal one being the smallest.
Another the largest specimen 19 inches long taken September 1913 has nine embryos.
Food.
 This species is supposed to feed on frogs and field mice.
One individual had in its rectum the remains of several beetles grasshoppers spiders and the ribs and pieces of skin of a very small snake or lizard.
Another specimen had in its stomach the hind legs and tail of the ground lizard Lygosoma laterale the tail pointing forward.
This conforms to the rule with almost all the snakes of the Okefinokee collection.
In almost every instance vertebrate food is swallowed head first.
The largest spechnen No.
6251 had the stomach full of parasites and in the intestine just back of the stomach were a few more.
20.
Crotalus adamanteus Beauvais  Diamond Rattlesnake  Diamondback Rattlesnake   Rattlesnake.
One specimen was taken during our stay in the swamp.
On June 21 1912 Mr. Jackson Lee secured it in the late afternoon in the Pocket.
His dog had discovered it and Mr. Lee crooned threw a chunk it with a chunk of wood but the rattles were broken off in the process.
The specimen must have been 45 feet long for the length to the anus is 115 cm.
The gastrosteges are 181 anal entire scales 292721 three rows of scales between suboculars and labials seven rows between supraoculars which are transversely ridged loreal one on the right side and two on the left side.
Two or three other diamondbacks were killed on the west border of the swamp near Fargo while we were in the swamp.
This largest of our poisonous snakes proves a serious economic factor to the inhabitants of Okefinokee Swamp.
The Lees assert that in 1910 alone they lost 1015 head of hogs killed by this species and other rattlers.
In some seasons the rattlers and bears combined compel the Lees to go outside the swamp for new hog stock.
They further contend that hogs are not wholly immune but that the hogs will eat dead rattlers preferring the heads.
At other times they eat the heads first and later the body or in some instances the whole snake at once.
They are not so certain that the hogs are such mortal enemies of the rattlers as they are reputed to be.
In some seasons the rattlers are very common during the season of 1912 they were scarce as the one capture shows.
They occur throughout the swamp.
On Minne Lake Islands they are frequent.
Doubtless this is due to the infrequent visits of the swamp's inhabitants who almost invariably record them there on their hunting trips having counted as many as 14 on one expedition.
On our last trip to the Minne Lake Islands one of the native dogs was bitten by a rattlesnake Ijut reached Billy's Island two days after our arrival.
It travelled two miles throughout the thickest swampy tangle of the swamp swam Billy's Lake and appeared with its fore leg badly swollen from the bite but it soon recovered as they frequently but not always do.
21 Crotalus horridus Linnaeus Banded Rattlesnake Timber Rattlesnake Common Rattlesnake Rattlesnake Cane Rattler Canebrake Rattler  Siminole Rattler.
One specimen was recorded June 25 1912 by Prof. J. C. Bradley and Mr. P. Battle on the shortcut trail to Gallberry Island.
The snake was about 5 feet long.
In the collection made by Messrs. Jackson and Lemuel Lee July 15November 1 1912 we have a fine specimen he other specimen was secured in the fall of 1913 by J. C. Bradley and Paul Battle.
Coloration.
 The coloration of thelarger specimen No.
6255 is a pinkishgray.
In the cephalic end of the body there is on either side of the back and sides a series of three rows of alternate spots for a distance corresponding to four zigzag bands.
The upper row of each side is separated from the one of the other side by a reddishyellow band 3 scales wide which runs along the middle of the back for quite a distance until the chevron bands begin.
Then it continues along the back between the chevron spots almost to the anus.
This dorsal band shows better in the small specimen No.
6250.
Beyond the series of three rows of alternating spots on the neck region come three bands which have not the lower row of spots united with them.
Then follows 18 zigzag crossbands to the anus and 4 on the tail which is not completely black.
The first of these four does not completely encircle the tail as the subsequent ones do.
In the smaller specimen there are 5 black bands on the tail the first three not complete on the venter and ahead of the anus there are 26 bands six of which are not wholly united.
The median point of the chevron is directed backward and the angle on the sides points forward the latter point usually being on the 7th9th row of scales.
The black bands are 2 scales Avide and the groundcolor intervals 56 scales wide.
Occasionally half black bands appear with no counterpart on the other side.
The venter is lighter than the back jet heavily speckled with the ground color of the back.
These specimens well agree with the socalled canebrake form of the South.
Dimensions and Variations.
 The total length of the larger specimen is 118.7 cm. the tail 14.5 cm. or 8 in the total length and with 14 rattles anal entire gastrosteges 178 the urosteges 22 scales 262420 oculars 7 supralabials 14 the 4th the largest infralabials 18 on the right side and 17 on the left side two loreals.
The smaller specimen is 38.5 cm.
long the tail 3.3 cm. or llf in the total length anal entire scales 27232521 orbital ring 8 on one side and 7 on the other side infralabials 14.
In both specimens there are three rows of scales between the eye and the supralabials the larger specimen has the first row of body scales smooth.
The natives described to us a large rattler as large as a diamondbacked rattler and called it the Siminole rattler which we provisionally identified as C. horridus and later Prof. J. C. Bradley's capture verified this identification in the fall of 1913.
On Mixon's Hammock Jmie 16 1912 we also found beneath an o I roof on the ground the cast skin of this species.
Explanation of Plates IIII.
Plate I.
 Fig.
1.
 Carapace of PlatypeUis ferox.
Fig.
2.
 Carapace of PlatypeUis ferox.
Fig.
3.
 Skull of Macroclemmys temminckii.
Fig.
4.
 Skull of PlatypeUis ferox.
Fig.
5.
 Skull of Chelydra serpentina.
Plate II.
 Fig.
1.
 Eggs of Alligator mississippiensis.
Fig.
2.
 Eggs of Cnemidophorus sexlineatus.
Fig.
3.
 Eggs of Cinosternum pennsylvanicum.
Fig.
4.
 Eggs of Chrysemys floridana.
Fig.
5.
 Eggs of Chelydra serpentina.
Fig.
6.
 Eggs of PlatypeUis ferox.
Plate III.
 Fig.
1.
 Ovarian egg of Diadophis pundatus.
Fig.
2.
 Ovarian egg of Elaphe obsoletus.
Fig.
3.
 Ovarian egg of Cemophora coccinea.
Fig.
4.
 Embryos of Haldea striatula.
Fig.
5.
 Egg of Coluber constrictor.
Fig.
6.
 Egg of Chrysemys floridana.
Fig.
7.
 Ovarian egg of Heterodon platyrhinus.
PLATE I.
REPTILES OF THE OKEFINOKEE SWAMP.
PL.1E  REPTILES OF THE OKEFINOKEE SWAMP.
PLATE III.
WM  HjH m iH m'  m ml BHP iSi HH y B 0 V  H '' il f 1 i  jiH Ha hh H ' 'H '' H K V ' .H '
M L .1 1 Hlr.
.H V' '1 taBC  C ' H  H H H REPTILES OF THE OKEFINOKEE SWAMP.
April 20.
Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair.
One hundred and thirty persons present.
The Council reported that Dr. Spencer Trotter had leen appointed a member of the Library Committee to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. Thomas Biddle.
The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under the following titles A further contribution to the knowledge of the Orthoptera of Argentina by James A. G. Rehn April 1.
The earUest Samoan prints by WiUiam Churchill April 7.
Mr. Theodore Justice made a finely illustrated communication on the evolution of the horse.
The following were ordered to be printed 13 194 Apr. PRATICOLELLA.
BY E. G. VANATTA.
An examination of the anatomy of several United States land mollusks which were supposed to belong to the genus Polygyra has made it necessary to transfer them to the genus PraticoleUa.
The species may be distinguished as follows PraticoleUa griseola Pfr..
Helix griseola Pfr. Symb.
Hist.
Hel. I p. 41 1841.
This is a white shell with spiral brown bands a thin lip and obscure microscopic spiral striae upon the apex.
The anatomy is unknown.
PraticoleUa berlandieriana Moric.
Fig.
1.
Helix Helocogena berlandieriana Moric Mem.
Soc.
Hist.
Nat.
Geneve VI p. 537 pi.
1 fig.
1 1833.
A species similar in color and sculpture to the preceding but with a very thick lip.
The genitalia fig.
1 of a specimen in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences No.
76209 from Victoria Tex. collected by Hon.
J. D. Mitchell has a very long hollow fingershaped somewhat glandular appendix upon the penis.
The verge is shorter than in P. pachyloma Mke.
The penis retractor is divided so that the largest branch is united to the apex of the phallus and two smaller branches are attached at the base of the penial gland with the vas deferens passing between.
The surface of the interior of the verge is longitudinally plicate while that of the appendix is granular.
The spermatheca bulb is oval.
1915.
195 Praticolella pachyloma Mke..
Fig.
2.
Helix pachyloma Mke. Zeitsch.
fiir Mai. IV p. 32 1847.
This shell is globose translucent corneous with a white'lip and very obscure microscopic spiral strise on the apex.
The genitalia fig.
2 of a specimen.
No.
104751 A. N. S.
Phila. from Seabrook Tex. collected by Mr. H. H. Wenzel has a rather short hollow fingershaped somewhat glandular appendix.
The verge is long and much folded.
The surface of the interior of the phallus and the penial gland is granular and.
without longitudinal plications.
The penis retractor has two subequal branches one united to the apex of the verge and the other attached at the base of the penial gland.
The vas deferens is long folded and bound to the phallus hj the branch of the retractor muscle at base of the appendix.
The spermatheca bulb is reniform.
Praticolella mobiliana Lea.
Fig.
3.
Helix mobiliana Lea Proc.
Amer.
Phil.
Soc II p. S2 1841.
It is usually smaller and more depressed than the preceding species and is translucent lrown with a deep groove back of the broadly reflexed lip which often has a reddish tinge.
The apex has very obscure microscopic spiral strise.
The genitalia fig.
3 of a specimen in the Academy's collection.
No.
106000 from near Mobile Ala. collected by Mr. H. P. Loding has a conical penis with a padlike penial gland on oneside.
The retractor muscle is attached to the apex of the penis.
The vas deferens is rather short.
The thinwalled phallus and its appendix are longitudinally corrugated within the convex side of the penial gland is glandular as in P. pachyloma Mke. but it is not 196 Apr. long and fingershaped.
I propose a new section Farragutia for this species.
Praticolella mobiliana floridana nvar.
Figs.
4 5 6.
This is a form which differs from the typical P. mohiliana Lea by having a peculiar callus on the lip as shown in the figures.
Alt.
4.6 diam.
6.8 apert.
alt.
3.1 diam.
3.9 mm.
Type number 11445 A. N. S.
Phila. from Volusia County Florida collected by Mr. G. W. Webster 1892 also in the collection from Jacksonville Fla. collected by Morgan Hebard and James A. G. Rehn August 25 1911.
The structure of the genitalia is unknown.
Praticolella bakeri n. sp.
Figs.
7 8 9.
Shell globose translucent corneous rather grayish above the periphery spire moderately elevated whorls 5 suture impressed surface rather dull with irregular growth striae indistinct spiral lines and peculiar obliciue microscopic lines apex obtuse with obscure microscopic spiral striae and about 10 or 12 spaced spiral lines umbilicus small aperture roundedlunate upper lip straight outer and basal lips reflexed red with a pink callus within and an orangered band in the shallow groove back of the peristome parietal callus thin.
Alt.
7.9 diam.
10.7 apert.
alt.
5 diam.
6.2 mm.
Type No.
107452 A. N. S.
Phila. from Zellwood Orange Co. Fla. collected by Mr. C. A. Baker.
This species differs from P. jejuna Say by the larger size more globose outline the orangered band back of the reflexed lip.
It differs from P. pachijloma Mke.
by the sculpture of the apex and the shallower groove back of the peristome.
Unfortunately the animal was lost but from notes made at the time of cleaning the shell the genitalia were similar to those of P. jejuna Say but with a very short fingershaped penial gland.
Praticolella lawae Lewis.
Fig.
10.
Helix Mesodon lawii Lewis Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 118.
This species has a pustulate apex and a parietal tooth.
The genitalia fig.
10 of a specimen in the collection of the Academy No.
90722  'P from Calera Ala. collected by Mr. H. H. Smith and presented by Mr. G. H. Clapp has a hollow penial gland.
The verge is rather short and abruptly folded at the insertion of the appendix and half way between this point and the attachment of the long retractor muscle at the apex.
The vas deferens is rather short.
The interior of the verge and the hollow penial gland is longitudinally corrugated while the convex side of the appendix is thick and granular on the inner surface.
The spermatheca bulb is oval.
Praticolella lawae tallulahensis Pils..
Polygyra lawoe tallulahensis Pils. Nautilus XII p. 22 1898.
This shell has a pustulate apex the peristome is much like P. mohiliana Lea.
The anatomy is not known.
Praticolella jejuna Say.
Helix jejuna Say Jour.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. II p. 158 1821.
This is a smaller shell than P. bakeri having a diameter of 56 mm. with 10 or 12 spaced spirals on the apex the lip is white and not reflexed.
The genitalia have been figured .in the Nautilus XX p. 33 1906.
The penis retractor has one attachment at the apex of the phallus and the penial gland is very long and fingershaped.
Praticolella jejuna clavis n. var.
This shell differs from P. jejuna by being larger white and has 5 whorls.
Alt.
5.5 diam.
8 mm.
Types No.
100126 A. N. S.
Phila. collected by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry on No Name Key Florida in 1907.
All these shells have a peculiar oblique microscopic striation on the surface of the newer whorls.
Of several other names which have been placed in the synonomy by various authors it should be explained that Helix cicercula Desh.
not Gld.
1846 in Fer.
Hist. I p. 390 IV pi.
107 figs.
410 1851 figs.
46 are P. griseola Pfr. and figs.
710 are P. yachyloma Mke.
Bradybcena pisum Beck Index Moll. p. 18 1837 and Helix splendidula Anton Verz.
d.
Conch. p. 36 1839 are not accompanied with a diagnosis.
Helix albocincta Binney 1841 Helix albolineata Gld.
1847 and Helix albozonata Binney 1847 are various names for the same shell in Binn.
Ter.
Moll.
U. S. Helix vircjinalis Jan. Pfr. Zeitsch.
ftir Mai. 1848 p. 115 judging from Reeve's figure is a white slightly carinated shell and may not be a Praticolella.
THE EARLIEST SAMOAN PRINTS.
BY WILLIAM CHURCHILL.
The ethnica of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition 18371841 underwent a series of disasters of such gravity that it is surprising that anything was preserved.
The official collections knowTi to have been of great magnitude and unrivalled importance were lost in the wreck of one of the vessels of the squadron on the Columbia bar in Oregon.
A surrogate collection was hastil'' assembled by Wilkes by annexing the specimens which had come into the possession of officers and men.
This second and inferior collection reached Washington in 1842 vanished from sight for fifty years and was not discovered until 1892 when I had the melancholy pleasure of installing in the National Museum all that had survived the decay of half a century.
All the perishable materials had by that time gone into the endproducts of decomposition.
When the squadron put into Botany Bay after completing the survey of the islands from Tahiti to Fiji the members of the civilian scientific staff were landed as a matter of convenience while the naval officers went upon their dash toward the South Pole and the discovery of Antarctica only recently confirmed.
In the civil staff was Titian R. Peale a young member of an old and respectable family of Philadelphia.
It is through him that The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is in possession of one of the best collections of Polynesian ethnica anyvhere in the world.
Others are larger but none is so seriously representative of the period before foreign contamination had been introduced.
The records show little of the manner in which Peale's collection escaped the commandeering by Wilkes after the disaster at the Columbia but it is evident that Peale landed his treasures when he went ashore at Botany Bay and that thence he secured transport by way of London to the United States.
In due course of time he deposited these important objects with The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in his home tovn where now they are displayed in a satisfactory manner and are available through the courtesy of the Academy for purposes of study.
1 It had been placed in the cellar of the Smithsonian Institution and buried under many tons of incombustible coal.
Specimen No.
10615 in the Peale Collection is a pile of small basketry from Samoa half a dozen pieces of the common envelope type still in Samoan use.
It is labelled School Satchel.
In connection with the date 1839 this label led me to comment that at that time it would be somewhat proleptic to use the designation School Satchels in view of the fact that the mission had then scarcely secured a foothold in Samoa.
In continuation I informed the Curator that basketry of that size and form was intended to hold leaf tobacco and dry banana leaves for cigarettes for I have been assured by James Dwight Dana that tobacco was found indigenous in the South Sea.
Handling the satchel which lay on top of the heap I noticed that it weighed more than I should expect and that led to my discovery of printed matter contained therein.
So far as my information extends these pieces of printed matter are absolutely unique.
I have assured myself that they do not exist in mission collections in Samoa nor yet at the home of the London Missionary Society they are not in the British Museum nor can I find them of record in any library custody.
It is an inference but there is much to commend it that these pieces constitute a complete collection of Samoan prints up to the time of the visit of the Wilkes expedition in 1839.
It would appear that Peale displayed an interest in the work of the mission and a natural response on the part of those who were laboring in that field would be to supply as complete a collection as possible to show what they had already accomplished.
The following memoranda will serve to identify the several pieces in necessary bibliographic detail  1 E Mou I Imene  o lea foi le  Talafaalelei  i le 1 ATUA 1 ua imene i latou imene.
Mataio.
 Huahine  Neia i te nenei raa a te I mau misionari  1836.
This is a single sheet 278 x 437 mm. folded into 24 pages containing 26 hymns.
2 I le upu aoai i na ma le upu  a  Paulo ra  ua na liu i le upu 1 Samoa  la aoao le mou tagata le upu moni a le Atua  a ola latou.
Huahine.
 Printed at the Mission Press.
 1837.
This consists of one signature of 12 pages and one of 8 pages 112 x184 mm.
3 I le upu a le mou tagata anamua  ma  Atamo ma  Aperaamo I e ma  tagata tele uma  ua na liu i le upu  Samoa  E aoga lo le lelei le loto e iloa latou e le Atua.
 lesu.
 Huahine  Printed at the Mission Press I 1837.
Four signatures of 12 pages one signature of 8 pages 112 x 184 mm.
4 I le Upu I ia  losefa  na faamatalaina  o le upu Samoa.
 Faapefea le taulealea i le faamama i lona savaliga
ia  toaga lelei iai ia tatau i lau upu.
Davida.
 Rarotoga  Printed at the Mission Press 1837.
This is unbound and consists of two signatures of 12 pages each and one of 8 pages.
It measures 117 x 190 mm.
5 lesu Mesia Aruna Moni.
Leaflet of four pages 110 x 171 mm.
 footline on page 4 Rarotoga.
Printed at the Mission Press.
October 1837.
6 Isi Nei  SALAMO  a Tavita  on footline Upolu  Printed at the London Missionary Society's Press M.DCCC.XXXIX.
A single sheet broadside 278x437 mm. containing Psalms 117 122 128 130 121 131 133 in two columns.
7 I le Uluai Tusi  ma  Tama iti  ornament of children supporting X Commandments '' Ina aoao ia i a outou fanau. 
lose.
 Upolu  I Printed at the London Missionary Society's Press.
 M.DCCC.XXXIX.
Pamphlet of 16 pages 118 x 171 mm. bound in paper cover.
8 O le Tala  i  Lotu ese ese  ornament of X Commandments E tasi lava le Alii e tasi le faalogo e tasi  le papataizoga. 
Paulo i Efesia.
 Lpolu    Printed at the London Missionary Society's Press.
 1839.
Stitched 12 pages 105 x 178 mm.
9 A I Matua Vosa  Vakaviji.
Four pages of alphabet numerals and spelling exercises.
And A I Kosipeli  i  Maciu This is a mutilated copy signature 1 has lost pages 58 leaving torn edges.
The signature was made up in duodecimo and on page 12 is the footline Printed at the Wesleyan Mission Press Vavau Feb. 1838 W. A. 
Brooks.
The second signature continues Chapter VII of Saint Matthew's Gospel at verse 7 and runs through pages independently numbered 16 the remainder torn out.
Both the foregoing titles are bound in a stiff paper cover blue on pages 1 and 4 the white inner pages 2 and 3 show parts of a catechism or book of Bible questions in Fijian containing pages 10 15 and 18 complete together with the upper six lines of pages 11 14 and 19.
These prints are interesting as showing the movement of the press in the South Seas.
We note the items.
Huahine imprint.
The first press in the South Seas was brought to Tahiti by the London Missionary Society about 1818 on the restoration of their work following the failure of the first settlement of the party which was sent out to Tahiti Tonga and the Marquesas on the Duff in 1799.
The first three items in this list do not therefore represent the first product of the press in Tahiti for a considerable mass of literature had by 1837 been accumulated in Tahitian.
But they do show that when the need first arose for religious prints in the evangelization of Samoa it was necessary to employ the Tahiti press at Huahine as being the only one accessible.
John Williams began his mission in Samoa in 1835 by a brief visit and returned in 1837 it is clear that the first three items were the product of his learning somewhat of the Samoan language in his first visit and that on his return to Tahiti he made this provision for his permanent settlement.
Rarotoga imprint.
A second and better press was received in Tahiti in 1837 and the old machine then became available for the new mission in Rarotonga which had been established by John Williams on his way to Samoa in 1835.
To this we owe items 4 and 5.
Upolu imprint.
A new press was sent out from London in 1839 for the Samoan mission and the Rev.
John B. Stair was detailed to that field because of his knowledge of practical printing.
It is not unreasonable to infer that the broadside of Psalms item 6 is the first sheet run off the Samoan press and that item 7 was the next for we note that these two items use Roman numerals with points for the date and that it is not until we reach item 8 that we find Arabic numerals.
That the Samoan printery was fairly well equipped we observe from the fact that items 7 and 8 are the only ones stitched or covered in the Polynesian series.
Vavau imprint.
Less is known of the introduction of the press into Tonga.
Item 9 shows that it was used for the printing of religious material for the mission in Fiji which was subordinate to the Wesleyan establishment in Tonga.
That this alphabetary and fragment of the Gospel of Saint Matthew was not the first Fijian product of that press is evidenced by the fact that the binding shows the use of wasted sheets of a former print.
2 Included in the same parcel is an undated specimen from another linguistic province.
This is a small square octavo of six signatures without page numbers stitched with fiber bound with famihar Chinese red paper.
The title occupies the upper third of page 1 as follows Pinag Daanang Buhay nang  Princesa Adriana sa Caharian  nang Antioquia at nang  Principe Pantinople  sa Francia.
This translation of a Spanish Novelette into one of the Philippine languages was undoubtedly acquired by Peale when the expedition visited the Sulu Islands.
NOTES ON NEMATOGNATHOUS FISHES.
BY HENRY W. FOWLER.
The present account comprises an annotated list with descriptions of several new species belonging to the Ostariophysian order Nematognathi contained in the collection of the Academy.
SILURID.
TACHYSURIN.'E.
Felichthys pinnimaculatus Steindachner.
One from Panama.
Felichthys marinus Mitchill.
Harvey Cedars Great Egg Harbor Corson's Inlet Sea Isle City New Jersej Womita Haulover Nicaragua.
Galeichthys felis Linnseus.
Bayport and Big Pine Key Florida.
Selenaspis herzbergii Bioch.
One example 137 mm.
long from Dutch Guiana Dr. C. Hering.
This closel' resembles Hexanematichthys hymenorrhinus Bleeker from Guatimala  a species not included in Regan's work on Central American fishes and usually merged with the present as a synonym.
My specimen agrees largely with Bleeker's figure of H. hymenorrhinus though he does not show the lateral line with subequal short backwardly directed branches along its lower edge.
The teeth are shown differently on the palatines as in my specimen they are in enlarged and more approximate areas.
My example shows the internasal cutaneous ridge incomplete or only developed at the sides and the gillrakers 8  15 while Eigenmann and Eigenmann give but 6  10 for S. herzbergii.
Another example young from Paramaribo Dutch Guiana Dr. C. Hering representing Netuma dubia Bleeker.
It has a distinct cutaneous ridge uniting the hind nostrils a character not shown in Bleeker's figure. The maxillary barbels are also shorter and do not quite reach to the ventrals.
1 Mem.
Soc.
Holl.
Sci.
Harlem 1864 p. 57 PI.
11 fig.
2 PI.
13 fig.
4.
2 L.c p. 63 PL 13 fig.
5 PL 15 fig.
2.
204 Apr. Netuma thalassina Riippell.
Two from Paclang Sumatra.
Netuma aulometopon sp.
nov.
Fig.
1.
Head 3f  depth 5i D. I 7 A. vi 13 P. I 10 V. i 6 head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput If snout 31 eye 5 maxillary 3 mouth width 2 interorbital 3 anterointernasal 4 dorsal spine If first branched anal ray 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 3f pectoral spine 1 ventral fin 2.
Body compressed rather slender deepest at dorsal origin and edges all convex.
Caudal peduncle well compressed least depth about half its length.
Fig.
1.
 Netuma aulometopon Fowler.
Type.
Head convex above flattened below and upper profile slightly convex from snout tip to dorsal origin.
Snout wide moderately convex over surface and length about half its greatest width.
Eye ellipsoid near upper profile and center near first  in head length.
Edges of eye mostly free scarcely adiposelike.
Mouth moderate broadly transverse and upper jaw well protruded.
Band of rather coarse simple sharppointed teeth in each jaw and bands similar.
Vomerinepalatine teeth similar to those on maxillary and in continuous band concurrent with maxillary.
Tongue wide thick fleshy depressed not free.
Maxillary barbel long extends back about far as tip of depressed pectoral.
Outer mental barbel extends slightly beyond origin of pectoral and inner f as long.
Internasal areas about equal.
Nostrils together frenum about midway in snout length and posterior nearly covered by broad cutaneous flap in front.
Interorbital broad depressed.
Fontanel well developed broad in front where it begins opposite hind nostrils and continues to occipital plate or about half space between snout tip and dorsal origin.
Occipital parietal and predorsal plate more or less rugose.
Humeral process extends not quite to middle of pectoral spine smooth and mostly swollen in front.
Opercle broadly triangular smooth.
Gillopening extends forward nearly opposite hind pupil edge.
Rakers 413 firm lanceolate simple about f of filaments and latter f of eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Branchiostegals 6 slender.
Body covered with smooth skin.
Head rugose as previously described.
Spines mostly with fine lengthwise keels or striae.
L. 1. slopes down from shoulder till midway along side mostly simple or with many pores all along its lower extent.
Back and sides also with vertical series of pores.
Axillary pore of pectoral distinct.
Dorsal origin at first third in combined head and trunk length spine serrate along both edges and nearly straight and first branched ray longest.
Adipose fin inserted little nearer caudal base than origin of dorsal large.
Anal inserted little before dorsal or at first third between ventral origin and caudal base first branched ray longest.
Caudal well forked slender lobes pointed equal head.
Pectoral reaches  to ventral spine nearly straight and both edges serrated.
Ventral inserted slightly nearer caudal base than snout tip and fin extends  to anal.
Yent slightly closer to anal than ventral origins.
Color in alcohol light broATiish generally slightly paler below and most of body with more or less silvery tinge.
Fins mostly pale brownish and edges of ventrals and anal somewhat whitish.
Iris silvery.
Maxillary barbels pale brown others whitish.
Length 87 mm.
Type No.
8372 A. N. S. P. Dutch Guiana.
Dr. Constantine Hering.
Nos.
8373 to 8375 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
They show Head 3f to 3 depth 5f to 6 A. vi 11 to vi 14 snout 2 to 3 length 82 to 84 mm.
This species is related to Netuma upsulonophoriis Eigenmann and Eigenmann from Rio Grande do Sul in having the vomerine patches of teeth united though the palatine patches are of greatly different design.
The Brazilian species also differs in having the front edge of the dorsal spine with granules.
Au.6j groove iJ.tTw' forehead with reference to the occipital fontanel.
Netuma barbus Lac6pede.
Two from Rio Janeiro Brazil.
CALLOPHYSIN..
Callophysus macropterus Lichtenstein.
Two from Peru one having been secured between the mouth of the Rio Negro and Peru.
ICTALURIN.E.
Ictalurus furcatus Le Sueur.
Pimelodus affinis Baird and Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1854 p. 26.
Rio Grande.
No.
8460 A. N. S. P. cotype of P. affinis Baird and Girard.
Brownsville Texas.
J. H. Clark.
Smithsonian Institution No.
838.
Ictalurus punotatus Rafinesque.
Fimdodus notalus Abbott Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1860 p. 509.
Fort Riley Kansas.
Pimelodus hammondi Abbott I.e.
Fort Riley.
No.
8449 A. N. S. P. type of P. notalus Abbott.
Fort Riley Kansas.
Dr. W. A. Hammond.
Nos.
22065 and 66 A. N. S. P. cotypes of P. hammondi Abbott.
Same data.
Also many examples from Lake Erie Battle Creek of the upper Missouri Pennsylvania Erie Kiskiminitas and Beaver Rivers Virginia Sinking Creek Indiana Wabash River Minnesota Mankato Kansas Leavenworth Iowa Hornick and Ottumwa Missouri Brownsville and St. Louis Arkansas Judsonia and Greenway Texas Little Wichita River Fort Worth and Del Rio.
Ictalurus anguilla Evermann and Kendall.
Two from the Creek Country Dr. S. W. Woodhouse.
These were obtained many years before the species was described.
Ameiurus catus Linnseus.
Amiurus lophius Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 487.
Washington D. C. Amiurus niveiventris Cope I.e. p. 488.
Neuse River North Carohna.
Nos.
8461 and 62 A. N. S. P. cotypes of .
lophius Cope.
Potomac River.
E. D. Cope.
Nos.
8466 and 67 A. N. S. P. cotypes of .4. niveiventris Cope.
Neuse River Noi Carolina.
E. D. Cope.
Also a large series from New Jersey Duck and Newbold's Islands Pennsylvania Holmesburg Philadelphia Chester County Susquehanna River Delaware Wilmington Mispillion Creek Laurel Maryland Elk Neck Chestertown  District of Columbia Potomac River Washington Virginia lower James River North Carolina Florida Bayport Texas Helotis.
Ameiurus catus okeechobeensis Heilprin.
Ictalurus okeechobeensis Heilprin Trans.
Wagner Inst.
Sci. I 1887 p. 18.
Ivissimee River Lake Okeechobee Florida.
Nos.
8442 and 43 A. N. S. P. cotypes of .
okeechobeensis Heilprin.
Kissimee River Lake Okeechobee Florida.
1886.
Prof. Angelo Heilprin.
Ameiurus dugesi T. H. Bean.
Guadalajara market and river outlet of Lake Chapala Mexico.
Ameiurus natalis Le Sueur.
Amiurus bolli Cope Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
20 1880 p. 35.
Little Wichita River Texas.
Amiurus prosthistius Cope Proc.
Acad.
Xat.
Sci.
Phila. 1883 p. 132.
Batsto River New Jersey.
Nos.
20512 and 13 A. N. S. P. cotypes of A. holU Cope.
Little Wichita River Texas.
E. D. Cope.
Nos.
20546 to 49 A. N. S. P. cotypes of A. prosthistius Cope.
Batsto River NeAv Jersey.
E. D. Cope.
Also a large series from New York Westport Pennsylvania Erie New Jersey Pool Tolsoms Newton's Bridge Tuckahoe River Delaware Millsboro South Carolina Manning Michigan Oakland Kansas Leavenworth Iowa Brook River Missouri Marshfield.
Ameiurus vulgaris Thompson.
Lake George New York.
Ameiurus nebulosus Le Sueur.
Amiurus mispilliensis Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 486.
Mispillion Creek Delaware.
No.
8536 A. N. S. P. type of A. lyiispiUiensis Cope.
Mispillion Creek Delaware.
E. D. Cope.
Large series from Maine Mt.
Desert New York Lakes George and Champlain Poughkeepsie  New Jersey Passaic Lake Hopatcong Bass River May's Landing Petersburg Bridge Sumner Turnersville Repaupo Camden Pensauken Merchantville Duck Island Trenton Pennsylvania many localities already noted elsewhere Delaware Rehoboth Maryland Willpjrds Chestertown District of Columbia Washington and Potoma River Virginia lower James River North Carolina Catawba River Ohio Hicksville Illinois Missouri Paw Paw Texas San Diego and Wichita River.
Two examples from the Hardy River in northern Lower California show four white mental barbels and the membranes between the finrays dusky.
Ameiurus nigrilabris Cope.
Gronias nigrilabris Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1861 p. 231.
Conestoga Creek Pennsylvania.
Nos.
22082 and 83 A. N. S. P. cotypes of G. nigrilabris Cope.
Ameiurus melas Rafinesque.
Amiurus brachyacanthus Cope Bull.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. No.
20 1880 p. 35.
Upper Medina River Texas.
Nos.
20527 and 28 A. N. S. P. cotypes of A. brachyacanthus Cope.
Many examples from Pennsylvania Erie Kiskiminitas River Ohio Hicksville Indiana Miami River Minnesota Lake Whittlesee Iowa Ottumwa Silver Lake Missouri St. Joseph.
Ameiurus platycephalus Girard.
Pimiiodus platycephalus Girard Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1859 p. 161.
Anderson South Carolina.
No.
8473 A. N. S. P. cotype of A. platycephalus Cope.
Anderson South Carolina.
Smithsonian Institution No.
1434.
Also example from Catawba River North Carolina.
Leptops olivaris Rafinesque.
Pennsylvania Youghiogheny River Virginia Sinking Creek Texas Fort Worth.
Noturus flavUS Rafinesque.
Pennsjdvania Erie Two Lick Creek Cherry Run Youghiogheny River Indiana Miami River Michigan Genesee County Iowa Chariton Brook River Missouri Clinton.
Schilbeodes gyrinus Mitchill.
New Jersey Lake Hopatcong Elmer Pitman Newton's Bridge Pensauken Florence Trenton Pennsylvania Edison Bristol Holmesburg Torresdale Delaware Minnesota Minneapolis Iowa Brook River.
In 1899 Mr. S. N. Rhoads secured five examples at Miami Florida the most southern point at which this species has been observed.
Schilbeodes insignis Richard.son.
Noturus marginatus Baird Cope Journ.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 2 VI 1868 p. 237.
Pennsylvania.
Nos.
8431 and 32 A. N. S. P. cotypes of A marginatus Baird Cope.
Carlisle Pennsylvania.
S. F. Baird.
New Jersey Assanpink Creek Trenton Pennsylvania Millanville Dingman's Ferry Delaware Water Gap Schuylkill River Holmesburg Susquehanna River Conestoga Creek Lopez Paradise Altoona Maryland Conowingo GTin Oak Mrginia Sinking Creek North Carolina Yadkin and Catawba Rivers Missouri Carthage.
Schilbeodes exilis E. W. Nelson.
Brook River Iowa.
PIMELODIN.
Zungaro zungaro .Humboldt.
Peruvian Amazon.
Khamdia sebae Valenciennes.
Surinam and Peruvian Amazon.
Ehamdia vilsoni Giin.
Trinidad British West Indies.
Rhamdia riojae sp.
nov.
Fig.
2.
Pimelodus humilis non Giinther Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XVII 1878 p. 674.
Rioja near Moyabamba.
Head 4 depth 5 D. I 6 A. v 7 P. I 8 V. i 5 head width 1 J in its length head depth at occiput If  snout 3 eye 7 maxillary 3 mouth width 2f  interorbital 2f  dorsal spine 2 first branched anal ray 2i least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral If ventral Body compressed elongate rather slender deepest at dorsal origin and edges all convex.
Caudal peduncle well compressed least depth equals its length.
Head depressed broadly convex above more or less flattened below profiles mostly similar.
Snout wide broadly convex over surface length i its greatest width.
Eye ellipsoid close to upper profile and its hind edge little anterior in head length.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth broad transverse and upper jaw slightly protruded.
Teeth in villiform bands in jaws simple sharply pointed and bands continuous medianly.
No vomerine teeth though all vomerine and palatine regions with wddespaced minute papillse.
Tongue wide thick fleshy depressed not free.
Maxillary barbel extends to ventral origin.
Outer mental barbel reaches tip of depressed pectoral spine and inner extends  to pectoral origin.
Posterior internasal area slightly less than anterior.
Anterior nostrils near snout edge in short tubes.
Posterior nostril about first I in snout length ith low cutaneous edge.
Interorbital 14 210 Apr. broadly depressed.
Fontanel moderate not extending back beyond hind eye edges.
Occipital process extends only for first fourth in space to dorsal origin.
Humeral process smooth extends f length of pectoral spine.
Opercle broadly triangular with a few shght radiating striae.
Gillopening extends forward about first third in head.
Rakers 38 firm lanceolate simple about i of filaments and latter equal eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Branchiostegals 6 slender.
Body covered with smooth skin.
Head smooth.
Spines smooth.
L. 1. slopes down from shoulder till midway along side.
Axillary pore moderate.
Dorsal origin shghtly nearer anal origin than snout tip spine short slightly curved smooth and pungent and first three rays subequally longest.
Anal inserted nearly midway between depressed pectoral Fig.
2.
 Rhamdia riojce Fowler.
Type.
tip and caudal base fin small and median rays longest.
Adipose dorsal long its length about 2f in combined head and trunk length.
Caudal moderately forked lobes damaged apparently equal and length about f of head.
Pectoral not quite half way to ventral spine firm smooth outer edge with few weak antrorse serrse terminally and few obsolete serrse also on inner edge.
Ventral inserted about midway between snout tip and caudal base fin If to anal origin.
Vent about opposite middle of depressed ventrals.
Color in alcohol largely dark brown belly and lower surface of head paler or whitish.
Fins all duskybrown though ventrals and anal paler.
Iris brownish.
Barbels pale browiiish.
Length 184 mm.
Type No.
21101 A. N. S. P. Rioja near Moyabamba and Baka Puerto on or near the lower course of the Huallagua River Peru.
1873.
James Orton.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
This species seems representative of Rhamdia quelen Quoy and Gaimard from eastern Brazil and the La Plata and agrees largely in its long adipose fin.
From R. humilis Giinther from Venezuelawith which it was formerly identified it differs in the longer adipose fin.
It also differs from R. cinerascens Giinther from western Ecuador and R. pentlandi Valenciennes from the Peruvian Andes in similar fashion.
Rhamdia mounseyi Regan from the Ucayali River has the occipital process extending f to the dorsal origin the gillrakers 2 or 3  5 on lower part of arch and the maxillary barbels extending beyond the anal fin.
Named for Rioja the type locality.
Rhamdia ortoni sp.
nov.
Fig.
3.
Head 3 A depth 6 D. I 6 A. iv 8 P. I 8
 V. i 6 head width If in its length head depth at occiput 2 snout 2f  eye 5i maxillary 4 interorbital 2 dorsal spine 2j third dorsal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2f  ventral 1.
Body compressed elongate slender deepest at dorsal origin and edges all convex.
 Caudal peduncle well compressed least depth about f its length.
Head depressed moderately broad convex above and below profiles similar.
Snout wide broadly convex over surface length f its greatest width.
Eye ellipsoid close to upper profile and hind edge near middle in length of head.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth broad transverse and lower jaw very slightly protrudes.
Teeth fine villiform in rather narrow bands in jaws which contiguous.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Tongue wide thick fleshy depressed not free.
Maxillary barbel extends to ventral origin.
Outer mental barbel extends nearly far back as tip of depressed pectoral inner mental barbel to pectoral origin.
Posterior internasal area slightly greater than anterior and all nostrils simple pores.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Fontanel large extends back opposite hind pupil edges.
Occipital process extends I to dorsal origin.
Humeral process rather short.
Opercle broadly triangular with numerous radiating striae.
Gillopening extends forward about first fourth in head.
Rakers 217 firm lanceolate several of larger with several denticles about 3 Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist. London 8 XIII 1913 p. 281.
212 Apr. I of filaments and latter If in eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Branchiostegals 5 slender.
Body covered with smooth skin.
Head smooth and small rounded fontanel close before base of occipital process.
Spines smooth.
L. 1. slopes down from shoulder till midway along side.
Axillary pore moderate.
Dorsal origin slightly nearer anal origin than snout tip spine slender but slightly pungent shorter than median rays and fin rounded.
Anal inserted about last third in space between front eye edge and caudal base fin small and median rays longest.
Adipose fin moderate 2 in combined head and trunk length.
Caudal damaged though evidently forked.
Pectoral damaged spine with lengthwise striae and not serrated.
Ventral inserted about midway Fig.
3.
 Rhamdia ortoni Fowler.
Type.
between snout tip and caudal base fin Ij to anal origin.
Vent about opposite middle of depressed ventrals.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish scarcely paler on belly and lower surface.
A dusky streak along side of head extending from side of snout lehind eye though apparently not continued along side of trunk.
Fins brownish dorsal with illdefined dusky blotch on posterior portion medianly.
Iris grayish.
Barbels brownish though mental ones all paler.
Length 60 mm.
to tip of damaged caudal.
Type No.
21928 A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
Only the above example known.
It is evidently closely related to Rhamdia rioja though differs in several characters so that it does not seem likely to be the young of that species.
From R. riojce it differs principally in the slightly protruding mandible reversed width of the internasal areas the slightly longer adipose fin and the coloration.
Named for Prof. James Orton who made collections in Peru many years ago.
Rhamdia sapo Valenciennes.
Rio Jacuhy and Sao Joao to Rio Negro and Chapada Brazil.
Ehamdia brachyptera Cope.
Pimelodus Rhamdia brachypterus Cope Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 3 XIII 1866 p. 404.
Orizaba Mexico.
No.
16471 A. N. S. P. type of P. R. brachypterus Cope.
F. Sumichrast.
Orizaba Mexico.
Regan says' the original description of P. brachypterus Cope from Orizaba is insufficient but Fowler's redescription of the type shows that this species is probably not distinct from P.
guatemalensis.
However according to Regan's key it cannot fall with any of the species he includes under his first division with R. guatemalensis.
It is likely somewhat near R. managuensis though the occipital process extends only onefourth the space from its base to the dorsal origin and the infcerorbital width is 2 in the head.
Rhamdella bathyurus Cope.
Pimelodus bathyurus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philo.s.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 674.
Peruvian Amazon.
Nos.
21437 and 38 A. N. S. P. cotypes of P. bathyurus Cope.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
This species differs from Rhamdella parryi and R. minuta in coloration.
Rhamdella nicaraguensis Gunther.
One from Nicaragua J. F. Bransford.
Regan figures this species but the barbels are shown as not quite reaching opposite dorsal origin.
He says they extend to the origin of the adipose fin according to Gunther and that both barbels are now broken off in the type the longest reaching the middle of the dorsal.
My example shows the maxillary barbels reaching a little beyond ends of depressed ventrals.
Rhamdella straminea Cope.
Rhnmdella straminea Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XXXIII 1894 p. 93 PI.
8 fig.
10.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
Nos.
21581 to 84 and 21604 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
H. H. Smith.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
No.
23216 without data is also identical likely with the same data.
 Biol.
Cent.
Am.
Pise 19068 p. 128.
 L.c p. 131 PL 20 fig.
2.
Pimelodus maculatus Lac6pede.
Pseudorhwndia piscalrix Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XI 1870 p. 569.
Pebas Ecuador.
No.
8387 A. N. S. P. type of P. piscatrix Cope.
Pebas Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Also examples from Demarara Surinam Ambyiacu River and between the mouth of the Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon.
Pimelodus valenciennis Liitken.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
Pimelodella cristata Muller and Troschel.
Pimelodus ophthalmicus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 675.
Peruvian Amazon.
No.
21102 A. N. S. P. cotypes of P. ophthalmicus Cope.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
1873.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
Pimelodella peruense sp.
nov.
Fig.
4.
Head 4i depth 4f  D. I 6 A. v 9 P. I 11 V. i 6 head width 1 in its length head depth at occiput 1 snout 3 eye 3 maxillary about 4 interorbital 3 dorsal spine 2 second branched dorsal ray IJ least depth of caudal peduncle 2i pectoral fin 1 ventral If.
Body compressed moderately elongate somewhat slender deepest at dorsal origin and edges all convex.
Caudal peduncle well compressed and length about f its least depth.
Head about wide as deep at occiput sides convexly approximated above and broad or somewhat flattened below.
Snout convex over surface length about half its greatest width.
Eye large near upper profile and about midway in head length.
Eyelids little free not adiposelike.
Mouth broad transverse and upper jaw slightly protrudes.
Teeth fine villiform in rather broad contigTious bands in jaws.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Tongue broad thick depressed not free.
Maxillary barbel reaches origin of ventral.
Outer mental barbel extends about first eighth in dapressed pectoral and inner mental barbel about f to pectoral origin.
Posterior internasal area slightly greater than anterior and anterior nostrils in short tubes posterior simple pores.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Fontanel large continued to base of occipital process without interruption.
Humeral process f length of depressed pectoral spine.
Occipital process elongate slender extends f to dorsal plate.
Opercle broad smooth.
Gillopening extends forward opposite front pupil edge.
Rakers 3  8 firm lanceolate simple little less than half of filaments 1915.
215 and latter nearly f of eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Branchiostegals 5 slender.
Body covered with smooth skin.
Head smooth.
Spines all more or less smooth.
L. 1. slopes down from shoulder till midway along side simple.
Axillary pore moderate.
Dorsal origin about midway between front eye edge and anal origin spine slender nearly straight edges apparently entire.
Anal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than pectoral origin first branched ray damaged apparently longest.
Adipose fin moderate 2f in combined head and trunk length.
Caudal damaged.
Pectoral moderate reaches f to ventral spine smooth on outer edge and inner with about nine large serrse of which longest at least little Fig.
4.
 Pimelodella peruense Fowler.
Type.
more than half greatest width of spine.
Ventral inserted slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base or below last dorsal rays and fin extends f to anal origin.
Vent at first  in depressed ventral length.
Genital aperture well posterior or slightly before depressed ventral tip and papilla long and conic.
Color in alcohol largely brownish under a lens seen to be made up of very closeset small dots.
Lower surface of head belly and sides paler and on last extending up to lateral line.
Fins all pale brownish outer portion of dorsal dusky.
Iris slaty.
Maxillary barbels brownish and mental barbels whitish.
Length 52 mm.
caudal tips damaged.
Type No.
21932 A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon.
Received many years ago from J. Orton or J. Hauxwell.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
This species closely resembles Pimelodella lateristriga Mtiller and 216 Apr Troschel though it differs in having the occipital process reaching the dorsal plate maxillary barbel extending to tip of ventral fin base of adipose fin 3 to 4 in length ventral scarcely extending more than half way to anal and inserted little behind vertical from last dorsal ray depth 6 to 7 and A.
12. My example shows no trace of a dark lateral band this region being entirely paler.
Named for Peru.
Pimelodella copei sp.
nov.
Fig.
5.
Pimelodus laleristriga non Miiller and Troschel Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 1872 p. 270.
Ambyiacu River.
Head 4 depth 5 D. I 6 A. iv 8 i P. I 8 V. i 5 head width If in its length head depth at occiput ly snout 2J eye 4 maxillary 4f mouth width 2 interorbital 4 dorsal spine Ij Fig.
5.
 Pimelodella copei Fowler.
Type.
first branched anal ray If least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral 1 ventral If.
Body elongate moderately compressed deepest at dorsal origin contour rather slender and edges all convexly rounded.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth 1 in its length.
Head not much compressed sides sloping gradually to form broad area above and lower surface flattened profiles similar.
Snout broad somewhat depressed length f its greatest width.
Eye high ellipsoid midway in head length.
Eyelids free not adiposelike.
Mouth large broad transversely terminal with short commissure and upper jaw slightly longer.
Teeth conic in moderately  Eigenmann and Eigenmann Occas.
Papers Cal.
Acad. I 1890 p. 156. wide contiguous bajids in jaws.
No vomerine or palatine teeth.
Tongue broad depressed smooth little free around front edges.
Maxillary barbels long extend back till midway in length of hind anal ray.
Outer mental barbel extends back  in pectoral spine inner reaches origin of pectoral.
Rictal fissure deep extending back from below hind end of maxillary to below narrow preorbital.
Nostrils well separated anterior in short tubes and posterior simple pores.
Interorbital depressed and flattened.
Occipital process extends to dorsal plate its length If to dorsal origin and of even width most its length.
Occipital fontanel slender long slightly constricted within interorbital and reaches occipital process.
Opercle broad with rather numerous radiating striae.
Gillopening extends forward about last fourth in snout length.
Gillrakers 2Q lanceolate firm about  of filaments and latter slightly more than half of eye.
No pseudobranchise.
Branchiostegals 6 outer rather large.
Skin smooth.
Spines smooth.
Humeral process striate its length slightly more than half of pectoral spine.
Dorsal and pectoral spines mostly with smooth surfaces.
L. 1. continuous simple little elevated at first midway along side.
Axillary pore moderate.
Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and depressed ventral tip spine slender slightly curved front edge with 11 antrorse serrae along its terminal half hind edge entire and depressed fin not quite extending back to origin of adipose fin.
Anal origin nearer ventral origin than caudal base by snout length and first branched ray longest.
Adipose fin moderate its length 3 in combined head and trunk length.
Caudal well forked lobes long slender and pointed about equal apparently damaged and caudal fin about equals space between snout tip and dorsal origin.
Pectoral extends f to ventral spine about  length of fin slightly curved outer edge very finely roughened basally and terminal half with about ten antrorse serrae.
Inner edge of pectoral spine slightly roughened medianly.
Ventral origin slightly behind last dorsal ray base and fin extends f to anal origin.
Vent and genital aperture rather near former about first third in depressed ventral and latter about last f .
Color in alcohol pale brownish lower surface of head and belly paler or somewhat whitish.
A rather narrow darker brownish streak extends along side of snout to eye and continued from hind edge of latter runs along upper side of abdomen to 1.
1. which it embraces below hind rays of dorsal and then continues to caudal base.
Fins all pale brownish.
Iris brownish.
Maxillary barbels brownish and others whitish.
Length 160 mm.
Type No.
8362 A. N. S. P. Ambyiacu River near Pebas Ecuador.
John Hauxwell.
Paratype No.
8363 A. N. S. P. same data.
Head 4f  depth 5f  D. I 5 A. iv 8 i snout 2f in head eye 4 maxillary 4 interorbital 3 dorsal spine 1 pectoral spine Ij length 152 mm.
This species was originally identified with Pimelodus lateristrigus Miiller and Troschel by Cope though at the time he pointed out that it differed somewhat in the longer beards and one soft ray less in dorsal and anal fin.
Eigenmann and Eigenmann state that the maxillary barbels reach the ventral tips and the origin of the adipose dorsal the gillrakers 38 depth 6 to 7 and pectoral spine with unusually strong and sharp retrose hooks along the inner edge.
Named for Prof. Edward D. Cope who first pointed out its characters.
Pimelodella cyanostigma Cope.
Rhamdia cyanostigma Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XI 1870 p. 569.
Pebas Ecuador.
Nos.
8381 to 83 A. N. S. P. cotypes of R. cyanostigma Cope.
Pebas Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Eigenmann and Eigenmann state ''we are unable to tell to which genus this species belongs.
Dr.
Cope says that this species is allied to Pimelodus ophthalmicus  Pimelodella cristatus.
But cristatus' is generically different from Rhamdia and was generally considered so when the statement was made.
However it is evident that Cope was correct in placing cyanostigma in Pimelodus as Pimelodella   Pseudorhamdia Steindachner was not proposed until 1888.
Phractocephalus hemilopterus Schneider.
Peruvian Amazon.
Brachyplatystoma vaillanti Valenciennes.
Surinam.
Hemisorubim platyrhynchos Valenciennes.
Peruvian Amazon.
Pseudoplatystoma fasciatum Linnteus.
Nauta Ecuador and Surinam.
The larger Nauta example has maxillary barbel slightly shorter than depressed dorsal tip though in the Surinam example it is about even.
A. v 8 i and v 9 i.
 Occas.
Papers Cal.
Acad.
Sci. I 1890 p. 156.
8L.C. p. 164.
Pseudoplaty stoma tigrinum Valenciennes.
Large dried skin without data.
Sorubim lima Schneider.
Peru Anibj'iacu River in Ecuador and Hyavary in Brazil.
SILURIN..
Eilurus glanis Linnaeus.
One from southern Europe.
Eutropius depressirostris Peters.
Three from the Shebeh River in East Africa.
Eutropius seraoi Boulenger.
Ann.
Iag.
Nat.
Hist.
London 8 VI 1910 p. 556.
Angola West Africa.
No.
37956 A. N. S. P. paratje from the LucuUa River 365 kilometers from Lounda.
Dr. J. V. Ansorge.
ScMlbe mystus Linnaeus.
Nile
Bonaparte Collection No.
368.
Physailia villiersi Boulenger.
Ann.
Mus.
Congo 1 II 1912 p. 17 PI.
17 fig.
6.
Angola West Africa.
Nos.
38756 to 58 A. N. S. P. paratypes.
LucuUa River in Chiloango.
Dr. Ansorge.
Ansorgia vittata Boulenger.
L.c PI.
19 fig.
2.
Angola West Africa.
Nos.
38734 and 35 A. N. S. P. paratypes.
N'Kutu Loango River Dr. Ansorge.
Jterocryptis gangeticus Peters.
Two examples in very poor condition obtained in the Ganges River India many jears ago by Dr. M. Burrough.
PORCINE.
Porcus bajad ForskM.
Nile.
Chrysichthys aoutirostris Giinther.
Bango River in Cabira Angola Dr. Ansorge.
Chrysichthys walkeri Gunther.
Chiloango River at Chiloango Angola Dr. Ansorge.
Chrysichthys ansorgii Boulenger.
Ann.
Mag.
Nat.
Hist.
London 8 VI 1910 p. 558.
Angola West Africa.
No.
37906 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Manzo River at Dondo.
Dr. Ansorge.
Hemibagrus tengara HamiltonBuchanan.
Five from the Ganges River India.
Day's figure of an Assam example is not in agreement with his description as the adipose fin is shown to begin close behind the base of the last dorsal ray and the length of the fin would be contained in the combined head and trunk 3j times. Hypselobagrus cavasius HamiltonBuchanan.
Head 4f  depth about 5 snout 2f in head eye 3 interorbital 3j.
Upper jaw slightly protrudes.
Outer mental barbel slightly longer than head.
Occipital fontanel reaches base of occipital process.
Dorsal spine entire on outer edge several slight weak barbs on terminal hind edge.
Adiposefin length 2f in combined head and trunk length.
Length 110 mm.
caudal damaged.
Ganges River India.
Hypselobagrus micracanthus Bleeker.
Two from Padang Sumatra.
Hypselobagrus nigriceps Valenciennes.
Borneo.
Bagroides melapterus Bleeker.
Borneo.
Glyptothorax platypogon Valenciennes.
Batu Sangkhar in Tanah Datar Sumatra.
Glyptothorax platypogonoides Bleeker.
Batu Sangkhar.
DORADIN.
Physopyxis lyra Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 273 PI.
5 figs.
1c. Ambyiacii River Ecuador.
No.
8282 A. N. S. P. type.
Ambyiacu River.
J. Hauxwell.
Doras dorsalis Valenciennes.
Para Brazil.
Doras granulosus Valenciennes.
One poorly preserved example from Surinam.
Doras COStatUS Linnaeus.
Dried skin without data and two examples recently recorded from the Rupununi.
As the larger of the latter examples differs markedly in its armature attention is here called to it.
The process of the dorsal plate embraces only the first two spinescent lateral 9 Fishes of India III 1877 PI.
101 fig.
5. scutes whereas in the smaller example and the dried skin the first three spinescent lateral scutes are embraced.
The Rupununi specimens also show the humeral plate extending a little further back.
Doras brachiatus Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 1872 pp.
270 292.
Maranon River.
No.
8342 A. N. S. P. type.
Between the mouth of the Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon.
R. Perkins.
Doras cataphractus Linnus.
Surinam.
Doras weddelli Castelnau.
Doras gryphus Cope I.e. p. 270 PI.
15 figs.
1la.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
Nos.
8345 and 16460 A. N. S. P. cotypes of D. gryphus Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Doras pectinifrons Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 568.
Pebas Ecuador.
No.
8346 A. N. S. P. type.
Pebas Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Doras monitor Cope.
ZathorcLv monitor Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 1872 p. 272 PI.
4 fig.
1.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
Nos.
8276 and 77 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Z. monitor Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Doras nauticus Cope.
Zathorax nauticus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 133.
Nauta Ecuador.
Nos.
21390 to 95 A. N. S. P. cotypes of Z. nauticus Cope.
Nauta Ecuador.
J. Orton.
Oxydoras niger Valenciennes.
lihinodoras prionomus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 134.
Nauta Ecuador.
No.
21203 A. N. S. P. type of R. prionomus Cope.
Nauta Ecuador.
J. Orton.
Also two examples from the Maranon between mouth of Rio Negro and Peru.
AUCHENIPTERIN..
Centromochlus heckelii Filippi.
One from Peruvian Amazon.
Also six from Manaos harbor Brazil in April 1913 E. A. Smith where known as Caratay.
Trachycorystes isacanthus Cope.
Auchenipterus isacanthus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 677.
Peruvian Amazon.
Nos.
21444 and 45 A. N. S. P. cotypes of A. isacanthus Cope.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Trachycorystes galeatus Linnaeus.
Two examples from Surinam agree with my Rupununi River example in every respect.
They also agree with Regan's figure of Pseudauchenipterus guppyi and his description of Par auchenipterus pasecB Trachycorystes brevibarbus Cope.
Auchenipterus hreviharhus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 676.
Peruvian Amazon.
No.
21519 A. N. .
p. type of A. hreviharhus Cope.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
The ventrals are I 5 not 7 as stated by Cope.
Maxillary barbels not reaching middle of pectoral sphie but now only to about  its length tip broken.
This species is close to T. galeatus but differs in the broader predorsal plate rougher casque and spines.
Pseudauchenipterus nodosus Bloch.
Surinam.
Epapterus dispilurus Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Pliilos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 677.
Peruvian Amazon.
Nos.
21353 and 54 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Peruvian Amazon.
E. D. Cope.
Auchenipterus nuchalis Agassiz.
Peruvian Amazon.
Auchenipterus ambyiaous sp.
nov.
Fig.
6.
Head 4f  depth 4i D. I 6 i A. in 41 i P. I 10 V. i 14 head width H in its length head depth at occiput If snout 3 eye 3f  mouth width 3 interorbital 2 least depth of caudal peduncle 2 pectoral spine 1 ventral fin IJ third simple anal ray 2.
Body elongate greatly compressed contour elongately fusiform with greatest depth about midway in length of head and trunk.
Caudal peduncle compressed least depth 1 in its length.
Head small about wide as high at occiput profiles similar.
Snout broad convex over surface length about f its greatest width.
Preorbital width slightly swollen.
Eye large slightly low center at first f in head length and orbit well extended on lower side of head.
10 Proc.
Zool.
Soc Londcm 1906 p. 387.
1915.
223 Adipose eyelid covers eye completely.
Mouth broad crescentic as viewed below and jaws about even.
A band of sparse villiform teeth in jaws narrow continuous though slightly expanded at each end.
Sparse villiform teeth in mandible areas becoming wider at symphysis where separated by narrow naked median area.
Roof of mouth without teeth.
Inner buccal folds moderate.
Tongue thick depressed smooth little free.
Barbels slender maxillary reaching f in pectoral spine.
Mental barbels equally spaced all extend back about opposite pectoral origin.
Anterior internasal space slightly greater than posterior nostrils all simple pores anterior also very close to snout edge and posterior little nearer eye than snout tip.
Occipital fontanel broad extends up till little beyond hind eye edge.
Supraoccipital process extends to dorsal plate though both covered with thin skin and smooth.
Opercle wide smooth.
MIjlJ I' Jl' . '
  T' 'W'W'i  
.

.
l ..yy   Fig.
6.
 Auchenipterus ambyiacus Fowler.
Type.
Gillopening extends forward about first third in postorbital region of head.
Gillrakers about 1023 slender pointed about f length of filaments and latter about IJ in eye.
No pseudobranchiae.
Branchiostegals slender.
Skin smooth no rugose areas.
Shouldergirdle at base of pectoral spine slightly swollen.
Humeral process short pointed slender covered with skin and extends about first third in length of depressed pectoral spine.
Axillary pore not evident.
L. 1. obsolete at present apparently continuous along side indicated by vertebral centra.
Dorsal small well anterior inserted slightly nearer anal origin than snout tip spine slender nearly straight front edge smooth and hind edge slightly serrated.
Adipose fin small inserted about last fourth in space between dorsal origin and caudal base fin about two in eye.
Anal with long straight base anterior branched rays slightly longer and base of fin 2 in combined length of head and trunk.
Caudal damaged broad and apparently forked.
Pectoral with long and nearly straight spine its surface with fine lengthwise striae its outer edge smooth and its inner edge serrated when depressed extending nearly to ventral.
Latter broad first ray straight.
Vent about midway in length of ventral.
Color in alcohol dull brownish generally with grayish shade on back and upper portions.
Lower portions of body slightly paler than upper.
From shoulder towards middle of upper caudal lobe pale duskygray streak and another below and parallel from ventral origin.
Barbels brownish also eyes.
Fins all brownish.
Length 163 mm.
caudal tips damaged.
Type No.
21484 A N. S. T. Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
This species is related to Auchenipterus nuchalis but differs at once in its deeper body.
A. nuchalis has the greatest body depth 4f to 5 and mental barbels extending a little beyond middle of pectorals.
Named for the Ambyiacu River.
Auchenipterus braohyurus Cope.
Euanemus hracJujurus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 076.
Peruvian Amazon.
No.
21552 A. N. S. P. type of E. brachyurus Cope.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
Ageneiosus porphyreus Cope.
Trans.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc 2 XIII 1867 p. 404.
Surinam.
No.
8389 A. N. S. P. type.
Surinam.
Also a small example from same locality.
Likely A. guianensis Eigenmann from Wismar in British Guiana may be found identical.
Ageneiosus brevifilis Valenciennes.
One example from the Peruvian Amazon in rather poor condition.
If marked as described by Bleeker scarcely any traces of the colorpattern remain.
Dr. Steindachner next figures the species from Rio Purus with the pectoral not reaching the ventral.
His examples were from Surinam the Amazon and Paraguay measuring 175 to 341 mm.
Bleeker's examples were 236 to 275 mm.
Eigenmann had an example 445 mm.
from Lama Stopoff in British Guiana and  Annal.
Naturh.
Hofmus.
Wien 1910 p. 403 PI.
8.
12 Mem.
Carnegie Mus. V 1912 p. 205. states that the pectorals reach the jEirst or fifth ventral ray.
Though he also gives the anal rays 34 possiblj this may include some of the rudimentary ones as most writers mention 32 branched.
My Peruvian example is damaged somewhat though now measures 200 mm. has the A. iv 32 and the pectorals damaged do not appear to reach the ventral.
A. ogUviei is very close and like A. marmoratus may be found identical.
TORPEDIXIX.E.
Torpedo electricus Gmelin.
Two from Liberia and one from the Lebuzi River at Kuka Muno West Africa.
ASPREDINID.
Aspredo aspredo Linnaeus.
Brazil and Surinam.
Platystacus cotylephorus Bloch.
Surinam.
Dysichthys coracoideus Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 133.
Nauta.
Nos.
21212 to 15 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Nauta Ecuador.
J. Orton.
Presented by E. D. Cope.
Bunocephalus melas Cope.
L.c p. 132.
Nauta.
No.
21235 A. N. S. P. type.
Nauta Ecuador.
J. Orton.
From Cope.
Bunocephalus aleuropsis Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 568.
Pebas Ecuador.
Nos.
8286 to 88 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Pebas Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
From Cope.
PLOTOSID.
Plotosus anguillaris Bloch.
Padang Sumatra Singapore Malacca Apia Samoa Bacon Philippine Islands.
The Padang examples are without whitish lengthwise streaks.
All others smaller and show the whitish streaks clearly even the very young.
CLARIID.
Clarias senegalensia Valenciennes.
Senegal.
15 Clarias mossambious Peters.
Shebeli River East Africa.
Giinther says Two small specimens of Clarias collected on the Shebeli River are not in sufficiently good condition to be determined.
The form of the vomerine band is very different from that of the fish described as C. smithii. 
These examples show the hind edge of the vomerine band slightly doubleconvex evidently an individual character as they are in all other respects similar to the present species and to which they undoubtedly belong.
Clarias batrachus Linnaeus.
Padang and Batu Sangkar Sumatra.
Clarias angolensis Steindachner.
West Africa also the Luali River at Lundo.
Clarias duobaillui sp.
nov.
Fig.
7.
Head 4 depth at anal origin 6j D. 76 A.
57 P. I 10 V. i 5 head width IJ in its length head depth at occiput If snout 2 eye 8 mouth width 2 interorbital 1 least depth of caudal peduncle 3 caudal If pectoral If ventral 2.
Body elongate sides and trunk well compressed deepest at dorsal origin and profiles mostly similar.
Caudal peduncle entirely free well compressed.
Head broad depressed upper surface slightly more convex behind and profiles similar.
Snout broad depressed slightly protrudes beyond mandible and length about half its greatest width.
Eye small rounded superior and placed near first  in head length.
Eyelids free.
Mouth wide with very short commissure.
Teeth fine villose in moderately broad similar bands in jaws upper area simple and lower ends in narrow angle behind.
Vomerine teeth similar in size and area to outel or maxillary band.
Tongue broad depressed free around edges without teeth.
Upper and lower buccal folds well developed similar.
Anterior nostrils in short simple tubes near edge of snout much closer than posterior.
Latter close before eye and simple slits just behind base of nasal barbel which reaches back opposite tip of occipital process.
Maxillary barbel extends back beyond depressed pectoral about midway between tip of latter and ventral origin.
Outer mental barbel extends back beyond pectoral spine tip though not quite to tip of depressed fin.
Inner mental barbel reaches pectoral origin.
Interorbital space broadly convex.
Fontanel shaped like a plumlbob within the interorbital region.
Occipital fontanel close to base of 1915.
227 occipital process moderate.
Occipital process triangular extends about first fourth in predorsal space.
Gillopenings large extend forward about first f in head.
Gillrakers 19 lanceolate about equal filaments or eye in length.
Shouldergirdle within gillopening with a welldeveloped process opposite origin of pectoral spine.
Branchiostegals moderate.
Body covered with smooth skin.
L. 1. simple slopes from shoulder till midway along side of trunk though not continued beyond caudal peduncle.
Dorsal inserted slightly behind first third in combined head and trunk length free from caudal behind.
Anal origin nearer caudal base than snout tip also free from caudal behind.
Caudal elongate rounded behind.
Pectoral If to ventral spine with rough serrae 1 f 'C4
f' Fig.
7.
 Clarias duchaillui Fowler.
Type.
along both edges anterior retrorse and posterior only on terminal portion of edge.
Ventral small inserted well back and reaches slightly beyond anal origin.
Vent close before anal.
Color in alcohol uniform dull brownish fins and lower surface of head all paler.
Iris dull slaty.
Barbels brownish.
Length 97 mm.
Type No.
8568 A. N. S. P. Gaboon Country West Africa.
P. B.
Du Chaillu.
Also Nos.
8569 to 8574 A. N. S. P. paratypes same data.
These show Head 4f to 4f  depth 6h to 6f  D. 70 to 78 A.
56 to 62 snout 2 to 2 in head eye 7 to 8 mouth width 2 to 2 interorbital If to 1 length 76 to 92 mm.
This species is apparently allied with Clarias submarginatus Peters from Cameroon agreeing in the few gillrakers concealed clavicles dorsal rays and width of the head.
It differs however in the much longer barbels fewer anal rays longer pectoral and caudal fins and in the caudal showing traces of about three somewhat irregular darker transverse bars.
Named for Paul B. DuChaillu who many years ago collected fishes in the Gaboon Country.
Phagorus nieuhofii Valenciennes.
One from Borneo.
Channallabes apus Gunther.
Two from Lubuzi River at Kuka Muno in Chiloango West Africa.
Saccobranchus fossilis Bloeh.
Ganges River India.
HOLOGENEID.
Hologenes marmoratus Gunther.
Holmia British Guiana.
HYPOPHTHALMID.
Hypophthalmus edentatus Agassiz.
 Peruvian Amazon.
PYGIDIID.
CETOPSIN.
Hemicetopsis candiru Agassiz.
Peruvian Amazon.
Cetopsis COeCUtiens Lichtenstein.
Ambyiacu River and Amazon between mouth of Rio Negro and Peru.
PYGIDIIN.
Hatclieria areolata Valenciennes.
Arroyo Comajo Neuquen Argentina.
Pygidium rivulatum Valenciennes.
Trichomyderus pardus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 132.
Upper Amazon.
Nos.
21180 to 202 A. N. S. P. cotypes of T. pardus Cope.
Jequetepeque Peru.
J. Orton.
Also many examples from Lake Titicaca Tinta sources of the Ucayali at Urubamba and the Rio Urubamba at Urubamba Peru. 
Sitz.
Ges.
Naturf.
Fr.
Berlin 18S2 p. 74.
Pygidium poeyanum Cope.
Trichomycterus poeyanus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1877 p. 47 on T. rivulatus Cope.
Trichomycterus rivulatus non Valenciennes Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1874 p. 132.
Arequipa Peru.
Nos.
21382 and 83 A. N. S. P. cotypes of T. poeyanus Cope.
Arequipa Peru.
J. Orton.
This species is close to P. rivulatum differing in its large dark blotches.
Pygidium dispar Tschudi.
One example which Cope refers to as a large specimen of the T. yardus which according to the label came from Callao Bay.
At present however it is labelled as having been secured at Tinta.
Pareiodon microps Kner.
Amazon between mouth of Rio Negro to Peru.
CALLIOHTHYID.
Calliohthys callichthys Linnaeus.
Surinam Nauta Pebas Ambyiacu River and Rio Jacuhy.
This large series shows considerable variation.
Adults and young have variably long or short pectoral spines which may reach the ventral or only half as far.
Plates on caudal base in two clusters which may vary 3 or 4 though usually 4 in each.
Hoplosternum littorale Hancock.
Trinidad and Venezuela.
Hoplosternum thoracatum Valenciennes.
Nauta Ecuador.
Hoplosternum oronocoi spnov.
Fig.
8.
Hoplosternum tJwracatum non Valenciennes Fowler Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1911 p. 436.
La Pedrita Venezuela.
Head 3f depth 3 D. I 7 A. i 5 P. I 8 V. i 5 lateral plates 25 above 23 below to caudal base snout 2y' in head eye 7 mouth width 3 interorbital If dorsal spine 2 adipose spine 3 pectoral spine If anal spine 2 least depth of caudal peduncle If caudal 1 ventral If.
.
Body moderately long well compressed deepest at dorsal origin and edges all convex.
Caudal peduncle greatly compressed as measured to last anal ray base about half as long as deep.
Head moderate depressed upper profile little more inclined surfaces all convex.
Snout broad depressed and length about f its greatest width.
Eye small rounded laterally superior hind edge about midway in length of head.
Mouth moderate upper jaw very slightly protruding.
Teeth minute in broad bands in 230 Apr. each jaw though upper of shorter extent.
Inner buccal folds both wide.
Lower lip wide with slight notch at symphysis.
Outer barbel reaches about first sixth in pectoral spine and inner barbel extends verj slightly beyond tip of pectoral fin.
Anterior nostril in short tube about midway in snout length and posterior simple pore close behind and a little superior.
Interorbital broadly convex.
Fontanel within interorbital and its length about equals eye.
Gillopening extends forward to last third in head.
Gillrakers lf8 short and rather blunt firm points about f length of filaments and latter equal eye.
Isthmus wide.
Bony plates on trunk each with minute denticulations along hind edges also on spines of fins completely over their outer or lateral surfaces and humeral process.
Plates on head and predorsal Fig.
8.
 Hoplosternum oronocoi Fowler.
Type.
region all finely striate.
Coracoid plates greatly exposed or length of each about equals pectoral fin and meeting at their anterior edges.
Outer half of snout lower surface of head and belly behind pectoral plates naked.
From adipose fin 7 plates on median line of back extend forward.
Rudimentary caudal rays with small plates.
Base of each caudal lobe with 2 plates.
Humeral process extends back f in depressed pectoral spine.
Dorsal origin little nearer snout tip than origin of adipose fin spine depressed and about f height of fin.
Adipose fin inserted about last third in space between last dorsal ray base and caudal base spine about 2 in interorbital.
Caudal rounded.
Anal inserted about last third in space between ventral origin and caudal base depressed fin extending slightly beyond latter and spine a little shorter than longest ray.
Pectoral with strong curved spine reaches ventral.
Latter inserted little nearer snout tip than caudal base fin extending f to anal.
Vent well anterior or close behind ventral bases.
Color in alcohol largely dark brownish trunk more or less mottled with paler areas or blotches and smaller dusky spots of irregular and often obscure definition on scutes.
On head breast and belly many closeset small blackish spots though becoming larger and fewer on belly.
All fins with obscure dusky spots though on caudal mostly united to form median broad blackish transverse band in extent nearly half length of fin.
Hind edge of caudal also dusky.
Iris slaty.
Barbels dusky.
Length 102 mm.
Type No.
37895 A. N. S. P. La Pedrita Cano Uracoa Venezuela.
February 16 1911.
F. E. Bond and Stewardson Brown.
Only the above example.
It is related to Callichthys pedoralis Boulenger.
which has been identified by Eigenmann with C iielamjiterus Cope a species certainly distinct.
C. pedoralis is evidently a Hoplosternum however and differs from the present species in its depth 3 to 3 large eye though this may be due to age inner barbels half total length and lateral plates 23 above and 22 below while in other respects it agrees.
No description of the caudal coloration or other details have been given for C. pedoralis so that its identity is uncertain.
H. schreineri Ribeiro I have been unable to consult.
Named for the Oronoco River in the delta country of which the te was secured.
CATAPHRACTOPS subgen.
nov.
Type Callichthys melampterus Cope.
Lower jaw without barbels though two at each rictus.
Coracoid but slightly exposed below and ventral surface largely naked.
Dorsal spine low and flat.
Pectoral spine finely serrated on inner edge outer bristly.
Supraoccipital plate truncate behind so that narrow median naked predorsal strip extends before dorsal plate.
Differs from subgenus Hoplosternum in the naked jredorsal region and truncate hind edge of supraoccipital process together with the slightly exposed coracoid processes.
Cataphradus an old generic name for the plated nematognaths itxp appearance.
 Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1895 p. 525.
Monte Sociedad Paraguayan Chaco.
Hoplosternum melampterum Cope.
Callichthys vielamplerus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 275.
Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
8318 to 28 A. N. S. P. cotypes of C. melampterus Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Also two examples without definite locality from Cope.
Dianema longibarbis Cope.
L.c p. 276 PI.
7 figs.
115.
Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
21540 and 8285 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Cheenothorax semisoutatus Cope.
Corydorus semiscutatus Cope I.e. p. 280 PI.
6 fig.
1.
Ambyiacu River.
No.
8289 A. N. S. P. type of C. semiscutatus Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Chaenothorax bicarinatus Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc XVII 1878 p. 679.
Peruvian Amazon.
No.
21447 A. N. S. P. type.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Brochis oaeruleus Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 277 PI.
7 fig.
2 PI.
9 fig.
3.
Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
8231 to 37 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Corydorus acutus Cope.
L.c p. 281.
Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
8292 and 93 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
These examples in very poor condition.
Possibly they may be found identical with C. punctatus Bloch.
Corydorus ambiacus Cope.
L.c p. 280.
Ambyiacu River.
Corydorus trilineatus Cope I.e. p. 281 PI.
6 fig.
2.
Ambyiacu River.
No.
8291 A. N. S. P. type of C. ambiacus Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Nos.
8294 and 95 A. N. S. P. cotypes of C. trilineatus Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Also four examples from Peru received from J. Orton.
C. ambiacus Cope has been identified with C. punctatus though is here allowed distinct until further studies can be made.
C. amphibelus may also be another synonym and is only provisionally admitted here.
Corydorus amphibelus Cope.
L.c p. 282.
Ambyiacu River.
No.
8291 A. N. S. P. type.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Corydorus paleatus Jenyns.
Many from the Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
LORICARIID.
PLECOSTOMIN.E.
Plecostomus plecostomus Linnaeus.
One from Surinam Hering.
A large example 418 mm.
long without caudal no data is evidently identical Plecostomus commersonnii Valenciennes.
Rio Jacuhy.
Plecostomus aspilogaster Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Pliila. XXXIII 1894 p. 100 PL 8 fig.
14.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
Nos.
21781 to 84 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
H. H. Smith.
This is evidently a distinct species and not at all to be confused with P. commersonnii as questioned by Regan. It would clearly fall with the species P. verres P. carinatus and P. vaillanti according to Regan's key where the character shared in common is supraoccipital bordered posteriorly by a median scute and by one or more on each side.
It differs from all three of these species in having the 1.
1.
30 and the lateral keels weak.
Plecostomus emarginatus Valenciennes.
Plecostomus scopularius Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 55.
Amazon above mouth of Rio Negro.
Plecostomus biseriatus Cope I.e. p. 285 PI.
16.
Amazon.
Plecostomus virescens Cope l.c 1874 p. 137.
Upper Amazon.
No.
8081 A. N. S. p. type of P. scopularius Cope.
Amazon above mouth of Rio Negro.
R. Perkins.
No.
8279 A. N. S. P. type of P. biseriatus Cope.
Amazon.
R. Perkins.
Nos.
21280 to 83 A. N. S. P. cotypes of P. virescens Cope.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Also small example from Peru obtained by Orton.
Pterygopliclithys multiradiatus Hancock.
Liposarcus varius Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 284.
Ambyiacu River.
Liposarcus jeanesianus Cope I.e. 1874 p. 135.
Nauta.
No.
21931 A. N. S. P. type of L. varius Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Nos.
21925 and 26 A. N. S. P. paratypes.
Amazon from mouth of Rio Negro to Peru.
R. Perkins.
5 Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London XVII pt.
3 1904 p. 206.
Nos.
8241 and 42 A. N. S. P. cotypes of L. jeanesianus Cope.
Nauta.
J. Orton.
Also other examples from the above localities.
Chaetostomus sericeus Cope.
L.c 1871 p. 288.
Ambyiacu River.
No.
22005 A. N. S. P. type.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
It is not a species of Xenocara as suggested with question by Regan' though closely related to his C.
maculatus.
Ancistrus dolichopteryx Kner.
Two from Pebas Peru received from Cope.
They agree with Kner's account and figure though are a little larger.
They are also rougher and the spines more or less spinescent.
The fins are spotted with blackish.
Ancistrus alga Cope.
Chcetostomus alga Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 287 PI.
15 fig.
Ambyiacu River.
ChcBtostomus malacops Cope l.c.
Ambyiacu River.
Chcetostomus tectirostris Cope I.e. p. 288.
Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
16461 and 62 A. N. S. P. cotypes of C. alga Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
No.
8299 A. N. S. P. cotype of C. malacops Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Nos.
8298 and 8300 A. N. S. P. cotypes of C. tectirostris Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
This species is allowed distinct and closely related to A. hoplogenys Giinther which is described as having but 8 or 9 interopercular spines.
I have two examples of nearly similar size of A .
hoplogenys from the Rupununi which agree in this character.
Further they are also whitedotted.
The types of C. alga show the interopercular spines as 11 to 13 which appear to exceed any variation found in A. hoplogenys.
Cope's figure of C. alga does not indicate all the interopercular spines.
The types of C. tectirostris show the D. I 7 rarely I 6 and the interopercular spines 11 or 12.
Ancistrus cirrhosus Valenciennes.
Chaitostomus variolus Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 288.
Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
21284 and 85 A. N. S. P. cotypes of C. variolus Cope.
Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Also four others with same data. ''
Trans.
Zool.
Soc.
London XVII 1904 p. 252.
' L.c p. 246 PI.
14 fig.
4.
Rozmani Upper Peru.
Lithoxus lithoides Eigenmann.
Mem.
Carnegie Mus. V 1912 p. 242 PL 29 figs.
14.
Warraputa British .
Guiana.
No.
39121 A. N. S. P. paratype.
Warraputa British Guiana.
In exchange Avith Carnegie Museum.
HYPOPTOPOMIN.
Hypoptopoma thoracatum Gunther.
Hypoptopoma bilobatum Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XI 1870 p. 566 2 figs.
Pebas Ecuador.
Nos.
8280 and 81 A. N. S. P. cotypes of H. bilobatum Cope.
Pebas Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
These agree with H. thoracatum in their ventral armature.
In the smaller example the median series of scutes do not approximate those on each side.
Also an example from the Peruvian Amazon.
Hypoptopoma psilogaster sp.
nov.
Fig.
9.
Hypoptopoma bilobatum part Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XVII 1878 p. 679.
Peruvian Amazon.
Head 4 depth 6 D..I 7 A. I 5 P. I 6 V. I 5 26 plates in lateral series of which last on caudal base 3 predorsal plates head width If in its length head depth at occiput 2 snout If eye 4f mouth width 3 interorbital If least depth of caudal peduncle 3 pectoral spine li.
Body long slender in lateral profile depressed as viewed from above deepest at dorsal origin and edges all smoothly convex.
Caudal peduncle rather robust becoming compressed behind and its least depth about  its length measured to rudimentary adipose finspine.
Head short well depressed and profiles similar.
Snout broad depressed its length f its basal width.
Eye moderate lateral and its center about last fourth in head.
Eyelids free.
Mouth rather troad transverse and placed about first f in snout.
Disk rounded apparently yith entire edges and surface with a few papillae on lower lip.
Teeth slender simple uniserial long and slightly bent compressed tips blunt.
Inner buccal folds apparently broad.
Tongue broad fleshy little distinct at present.
Each lateral corner of buccal disk with short triangular fiesh barbel apparently less than half of eye in length.
Nostrils together simple pore within depression on top of head just before front edge of eye extent of depression each less than half of eye and bony internasal region trifle more than eye.
Interorbital broadly and slightly convex.
Occipital process broadly triangular.
Opercle large and very porous.
236 Apr. Gillopenings small inferiorly lateral extend forward about opposite hind edge of eye.
Isthmus moderately broad width If in snout.
Body almost everywhere minutely spinose.
Scales without distinct keels.
Eight plates between dorsal and adipose fin.
Snout all more or less roughened especially along sides.
Lower surface of head and abdomen entirely naked only interrupted by striate osseous exposures of coracoids.
Fin spines all spinulose.
L. 1. scarcely distinct.
Dorsal origin placed little nearer origin of adipose fin than snout tip spine damaged slightly enlarged and evidently longest of fin Fig.
9.
 Hypoptopoma psilogasterFovfler.
Type.
radii.
Adipose fin reduced to a simple depressed little plate inserted slightly nearer dorsal origin than caudal base.
Anal inserted behind base of depressed dorsal.
Caudal damaged with lower lobe apparently longer .
Pectoral with long slender and slightly curved spine its outer edge with minute asperities and spinules and inner edge antrorsely serrate also extends about f in depressed ventral.
Latter not reaching anal.
Vent about midway in postventral region.
Color in alcohol largely dull brownish with greenish tint doubtless due to having been preserved originally in a copper vessel.
Snout and side of head with dusky dots.
A narrow streak of dark brown also along side of snout and continued behind eye to shoulder.
Median caudal rays dusky.
Iris brownish.
Length 56 mm.
caudal damaged.
Type No.
21922 A. N. S. P. Peruvian Amazon.
1873.
J. Orton.
Received from E. D. Cope.
The above example was formerly identified with the preceding species but is here allowed distinct provisionally for if simply a variant is quite anomalous.
The type of H. psilogaster is larger than the smallest example of H. thoracatum and it has but two rows of ventral scutes the space between being naked.
'FtAoc naked r''OP stomach.
DIAPELTOPLITES subgen.
nov.
Type Hypoptopoma g'ulare Cope.
Differs from the subgenus Hypoptopoma Giinther as here understood in the ventral armature consisting largely of two series of plates though a single plate interposed between the first pair.
The species embraced in this subgenus are H. gulare Cope H. joberti Vaillant and H. steindachneri Boulenger.
The subgenus Hypoptopoma contains only H. tJioracatuyn Giinther and H. psilogaster described previously.
Jfa divided iXrri shield oXtrj armed with reference to the double series of shields on the belly.
Hypoptopoma gulare Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XVII 1878 p. 679.
Peruvian Amazon.
No.
21477 A. N. S. P. type.
Peruvian Amazon.
J. Orton.
Otooinclus vestitus Cope.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 83 PI.
4 fig.
2.
Tributary of Ambyiacu River.
Nos.
8283 and 84 A. N. S. P. cotypes.
Tributary of Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
J. Hauxwell.
Otocinclus flexilis Cope.
Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XXXIII 1894 p. 97 PI.
8 figs.
I3ab.
Rio Jacuhy.
Otocinclus fimbriatus Cope I.e. p. 98 PI.
9 figs.
IQab.
Rio Jacuhy.
Nos.
21622 to 26 A. N. S. P. cotypes of 0. flexilis Cope.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
H. H. Smith.
Nos.
21752 to 55 A. N. S. P. cotypes of 0. fimbriatus Cope.
Same data.
This nominal form appears to be a condition of greater age.
Microlepidogaster nigricauda Boulenger.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
Microlepidogaster Isevior Cope.
Hisonotus Icevior Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XXXIII 1894. p. 95 PI.
7 fig.
12.
Rio Jacuhy.
No.
21563 A. N. S. P. type of H. Icevior Cope.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
H. H. Smith.
Both this and the following species have been merged with the preceding though they appear to me distinct.
Microlepidogaster leptoohilus Cope.
Hisonotus leptochilus Cope Proc.
Amer.
Philos.
Soc.
Phila. XXXIII 1894 p. 96 PI.
7 fig.
11.
Rio Jacuhy.
No.
21564 A. N. S. P. type of H. leptochilus Cope.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
H. H. Smith.
LORICARIIN..
Ehineloricaria ciadeae Hensel.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
Loricariichthys typus Bleaker.
Two examples 208 and 224 mm.
caudal tips slightly damaged from Surinam.
They agree with Bleeker's account in having 14 caudal scutes though Regan gives but 10 or 11 which is in agreement with Steindachner's figure of Loricaria stuhelii. The interorbital space in my specimens is flat with the eye nearly impinging on the upper profile of the head.
In Bleeker's figure the interorbital space is shown as elevated.
My examples agree with L. stubelii in their occipital armament though ventrally they have at least four rows of plates.
In L. stubelii the figure shows the median ventral plates absent in one case.
Traces of dark spots are also evident on the fins.
Loricariiclitliys hauxwelli sp.
nov.
Fig.
10.
Loricaria acuta non Valenciennes Cope Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1871 p. 289.
Ambyiacu River.
Head 4 depth 9 D. I 7 A. I 5 P. I 6 V. I 5 scales 30 in lateral series to caudal base lateral keels united or approximated after 16 scales 20 scales behind dorsal 3 predorsal scales head width If in its length head depth at occiput 2f snout If eye 5 mouth width 4 interorbital 4 dorsal spine 1 anal spine Ij pectoral spine If ventral spine 1.
Body slender in profile deepest at ventral origin and well depressed.
Caudal peduncle well depressed long and surfaces about equally and broadly convex above and below.
18 Nat.
Verh.
Holl.
Maats.
Descr.
Silur.
Suriname XX 1864 p. 20 PI.
6 fig.
1 PI.
13 fig.
1. 
Trans.
Zool.
Soc London XVII 1904 p. 286.
20 Denk.
Ak.
Wiss.
Wien XLVI 1882 p. 7 PI.
3 fig.
2.
1915.
239 Head elongate depressed broadly convex above and more or less flattened below.
Snout depressed somewhat acuminate length about equals greatest width and upper profile slightly concave in front.
Eye moderate with eye socket well notched behind general form ellipsoid and center falls about last third in head length.
Mouth anterior or slightly before middle in snout length transverse and jaws firm.
Teeth apparently few minute closeset and uniserial.
Buccal disk damaged apparently more or less rounded
Tongue broad depressed scarcely free.
Nostrils together within an aperture about half length of orbital aperture to which close before in lateral profile and hind edge of aperture slopes up gradually.
Fig.
10.
 Loricariichthys hauxwelli Fowler.
Type.
Internasal space slightly less than half of interorbital.
Cheeks very slightly concave and interorbital similar.
Opercle large porous.
Supraoccipital process broad basally though .
forms narrow point about f basal width.
Gillopenings lateral extend forward about opposite eye center.
Gillrakers 4f 8 
short firm points much less than filaments and latter little less than eye.
Branchiostegals with outer broad.
Scales or scutes all more or less minutely spinescent.
Predorsal region with 3 scutes to occipital.
Three series of scutes transversely across middle of belly with inner series broad.
Anteriorly or on breast scutes smaller or more numerous.
Two scutes between ventrals.
Anterior 2 predorsal scales each with strong keel on each side and scales on each side with keel which becomes obliterated after second scale along dorsal base and posteriorly till near middle in length of caudal peduncle it forms only slight convexity on each scale.
Lateral keels on each side made up of minute serrse straight in their arrangement and graduated longer to last which largest.
Each lateral scale of belly Avith rather obsolete keel.
Head all more or less roughened with minute asperities though slightly more conspicuous along lower edge of snout.
All fin spines and outer rays of caudal finely spinescent.
Dorsal origin fall's behind first third in length about an eyediameter spine slender and not larger than longer rays.
Anal inserted well behind dorsal base or slightly nearer snout tip than caudal base spine scarcely larger than rays and depressed fin extends 2f to caudal base.
Caudal small median rays short and outer or upper and lower ones slightly enlarged.
Pectoral reaches ventral spine flexuous longer than rays.
Ventral inserted slightly before dorsal origin spine long and flexuous and reaches back about opposite middle of third scale along anal ba'se.
Vent about midway between ventral and anal origins.
Color in alcohol largely uniform brownish apparently greatly faded.
Lower surface of body pale.
Fins all pale uniform and caudal with several pale irregular cross streaks.
Iris dark.
Length 180 mm.
caudal tips damaged.
Type No.
8301 A. N. S. P. Ambyiacu River Ecuador.
John Hauxwell.
This example is close to Loricariichthys maculatus Bloch and may ultimately be found identical.
Bloch's poor figure does not show much detail fit for comparison and the synonymous Loricaria amazonica Castelnau is not much better.
The snout in Ijoth cases is shown as more obtuse similar to my examples of Loricariichthys typus.
From Regan's description my specimen differs in the longer snout and the abdomen with but a single series of plates between the lateral series.
The carinate anterior plates are also characteristic as his specimens are given at 190 mm.
in length and said to have all the predorsal plates weakly carinate in the young and without distinct keels in the adult.
Named for John Hauxwell who collected fishes in the Ambyiacu River many years ago.
2' Loricaria maculata Bloch Naturg.
Ausl.
Fische VIII 1794 p. 73 PI.
375 fig.
1.
22 Anim.
Amer.
Sud 1855 p. 46 PI.
23 fig.
2.
Lorioariichthys anus Valenciennes.
Rio Jacuhy Brazil.
One of the smallest examples 210 mm.
long differs in having the lateral scutes 259 which is more in accordance with the characters distinguishing Loricaria spixii Steindachner.
In other respects it agrees with the present species.
Loricaria cataphracta Linnaeus.
One from Surinam 228 mm.
long caudal tips damaged.
Head width 1 in its length.
Internasal region slightly elevated convexly.
No lengthmse keels on interorbital and anterior occipital region.
Ventral plates medianly in 3 or 4 irregular series.
Lower naked surface of head extends rather well back on clavicle region.
Loricaria carinata Castelnau.
One from the Rio Maranon 185 mm.
long caudal tips damaged.
Head width Ij in its length.
Internasal region not elevated.
Two low lengthwise keels within interorbital space approximating behind where they continue closer as better marked supraoccipital keels.
Ventral plates medianly in 4 or 5 irregular series.
Naked surface of head below not extending on clavicles which covered with many small plates.
This specimen agrees with Eigenmann's photograph.
The species is apparently not previously known from the Maranon Cope having confused it with L. cataphracta.
Harttia platystoma Giinther.
Warraputa Falls British Guiana.
Sturisoma guentheri Regan.
Peru.
This example agrees with Regan's figure and account.
Scutes 20  16.
Sutures on predorsal shield weak so that it appears as rather large single plate preceded by 2 more plates to supraoccipital process.
Dorsal with traces of faint spots on finrays Cauda
with uppermost and lowermost rays produced tips damaged and with several dark spots arranged mostly as transverse bands.
CYOLOPIID.
Cyolopium sabalo Valenciennes.
Rio Urubamba Peru.
Cyclopium cMmborazoi sp.
nov.
Fig.
U.
Head 3 depth 4 D. I 5 A. I 6 P. I 10 V. I 8 head trifle longer than wide snout 2 in head length eye about 12 mouth width about 3 interorbital about 5 dorsal spine If anal spine If pectoral nearly 1 ventral 1.
Body moderately long compressed deepest at dorsal origin.
Caudal peduncle deep compressed.
16 242 Apr. Head depressed slightly.
Snout long depressed.
Eye high midway in head length without distinct eyelids.
Mouth broad transverse slightly crescentic falls little before first third in snout length.
Buccal disk broad especially lower lip which extends back opposite front edge of pupil and its surface finely papillose.
Lateral barbel emanates about midway in snout length and extends back about opposite hind eye edge.
Teeth moderate most of upper simple pointed and with slender acuminate tips.
Lower teeth bifid and lateral prong smaller otherwise like upper.
Nostrils moderate little closer than eyes are to one another together and placed about first third in snout length.
Interorbital slightly convex.
Fig.
11.
 Cydojpium chimborazoi Fowler.
Type.
J Gillopening lateral mostly above insertion of pectoral.
Enlarged rays of fins all with small denticles or spinescent body otherwise smooth.
Humeral process unarmed smooth extends back about midway in pectoral fin.
Dorsal inserted little nearer snout tip than caudal base spine rather flexible terminally longest of radii and extends back little over half way to adipose fin.
Latter rather large placed mostly behind anal.
Anal base entirely before adipose fin and origin nearly midway between last dorsal ray base and caudal base.
Caudal deeply emarginate median rays much shorter than outer so that hind edge lunate.
Pectoral low extends back slightly beyond dorsal base.
Ventral inserted slightly before dorsal reaches f to anal.
Color in alcohol pale brownish clouded with darker irregularly.
Fins mostly pale.
Iris pale slaty.
Length 24 mm.
Type No.
43523 A. N. S. P. Junction of the Chanchan River and Chiguancay River Province of Chimborazo Ecuador.
March 1911.
S. N. Rhoads.
Purchased.
Only the type known.
Since the appearance of Regan's work in 1904 a number of species have been described and referred to the genus CyclopiimiP Possibly the nearest approach to the present is C. cirratum Regan from southwestern Columbia which however would differ in having the ventrals nearly reaching the anal the pectoral reaching to the ventral base a smaller head and a black bar on the caudal fin medianly.
Named for the Province of Chimborazo in which the type was secured.
23 Pellegrin Arc Merid.
Equator. IX 2 1912 pp.
115 PI.
1.
Eigenmann Indiana Univ.
Studies X No.
8 September 1912 pp.
1316.
'' Arges cirratus Regan Proc.
Z. Soc.
London 1912 p. 670.
