HUNTING Mollusca IN UTAH AND IDAHO IN 1916.
BY JUNIUS HENDERSON AND L. E. DANIELS.
We were in Utah and southern Idaho from June 10 to July 24 1916 eontmumg the work begun in 1915. More attention was given to freshwater species and the smaller land snails than before with some interesting results.
A vast amount of work remains to be done in this region before the molluscan faunas and the significance of their present distribution are thoroughly understood.
The known Tertiary and Pleistocene history of the Salt Lake Basin is such that it must vitally affect the present distribution of species as well as possibly influencing local variations.
Great Salt Lake and Utah Lake both within the area covered by this report are among the remnants of a much larger body of water known to geologists as ancient Lake Bonneville.
During Pleistocene time it extended over a large part of Utah and into Idaho with a depth of hundreds of feet.
In its retreat it left a fine series of terraces around the margin of its basin to mark the various stages of its recession.
The formations deposited beneath the waters of the ancient lake the fluctuations of its water level and its molluscan life as revealed by the numerous fossils contained in the lacustrine deposits have been subjects of extensive investigation and discussion.The aridity of the vast area between the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra doubtless dates well back into Pliocene time.
The changes in the water level in the various lake basins do not necessarily imply periods of great humidity.
Each receives the drainage of a large territory and being completely landlocked a slight increase in the precipitation for a short cycle may extend the borders of the lakes far out over the flat lowlying area around the lake margins and increased precipitation for a longer period may fill the basins to overflowing.
The rise and fall of the waters of landlocked lakes constitute a complete and accurate record of the net result of all the 1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. LXVII pp.
315339 1916.
2 See especially the following Gilbert G. K. Contributions to the History of Lake Bonneville U. S. Geol.
Surv. 2d Ann.
Rept. pp.
167200 1882 with plates and map Lake Bonneville U. S. Geol.
Surv. Monographs vol.
1 1890 with plates and map.
Call R. Ellsworth On the Quaternary and Recent Mollusca of the Great Basin with descriptions of new forms LT. S. Geol.
Surv. Bull.
No.
11 1884. climatic factors chief of which are precipitation and temperature evaporation being an expression of the relations of temperature to humidity.
Even within the short period of occupation by the white race notable changes in the area of Great Salt Lake and other lakes of the region have been recorded but these changes have been insignificant when compared with those shown by the geological record.
In Pleistocene time there were at least two periods of enormous expansion and contraction.
During these expansions the Oquirrh and some of the other mountain ranges were peninsulas projecting far out into the lake while the southern part of Promontory Range and many other small ranges were islands.
Thus during the periods of great extension the direct intercommunication of the landsnail faunas of the several mountain ranges was either partialhor wholly prevented by the intervening waters.
During the recession periods between the major expansions as well as during the long periods before the first expansion and after the last contraction many of these mountain areas were nearly as well insulated by wide expanses of territory apparently quite unfavorable to land snails especially the larger snails of the genus Oreohelix
It is well to note however that as work upon this genus progresses flourishing colonies of the living snails are found from time to time in unexpected places where the cover does not seem at all good.
It should also be kept in mind that very few of the isolated mountain ranges have been explored at all and none of them thoroughly explored by conchologists.
Hence the last word on this phase of the subject cannot be written even aside from the possibility of the accidental transportation of snails by birds and other agencies.
Turning now to the freshwater mollusks direct intercommunication of the faunas of such streams as the Bear River flowing into Great Salt Lake from the north and the Jordan entering from the south has been prevented ever since the last contraction of Lake Bonneville by the extremely saline waters of the lake which form a complete barrier as effectual as a land barrier.
This salinity is due to the fact that the lake is landlocked.
The streams pour their waters containing salts dissolved from the soil and rocks into the lake.
There in the absence of an outlet the loss is wholly by evaporation which leaves the salts in the water thus maintaining a concentrated solution while Utah Lake Bear Lake and others with outlets remain fresh.
However during what is known as the ''Lake Epoch Lake Bonneville once or twice reached such depth that it established an outlet at the north end of the Cache Valley in Idaho resulting in the 4 temporary freshening of the water.
Hence it is not surprising that certain strata in the lacustrine deposits contain numerous fossil shells.
Nearly all the species in this fossil fauna are still found living in some part of the Bonneville Basin as was long ago pointed out by Call and Gilbert.
The drainage during the overflow period also afforded communication between the various rivers of the basin and the Port Neuf River to the north thus easily explaining the observed similarity in their faunas.
Our work in the region has developed a peculiar and as yet unsolved problem in the breeding habits of the genus OreoheUx.
The genus is viviparous.
In 1915 the snails of the genus collected in the last week in August contained many embryos but those obtained after the first two or three days in September contained few or none.
In 1916 we found very few embryos during the months we were in the field June and July yet if the embryos were to be so fully developed by the last of August as to be all gone early in Septemler as in 1915 it seems that they should have been developing by the middle of July.
To add to our perplexity a considerable number of live snails which were found among the dead shells in cleaning them in November and December nearly all contained embryos of 1 1 or 2 whorls.
These must have developed after July while the snails were dormant.
Over a large portion of the region covered by this report the combined effects of brush fires and overgrazing with the consequent erosion have played sad havoc with the cover for land snails.
In some places where the steep slopes below clumps of bushes were almost white with bleached OreoheUx shells the washing of the soil and dead leaves from beneath the shrubs had totally destroyed the cover so that not a living snail could be found and the shrubs themselves must die as erosion continues to take the soil away from the roots.
We have continued our station numbers from the 1915 expedition and revisited several of the 1915 stations to obtain more material and data.
We also include in this report some material oljtained by Daniels in 1915 at Idaho Falls Dubois McCammon and Weston but not hitherto recorded together with some unrecorded material in the University of Colorado Museum in order to keep all our Utah and Idaho records together.
We gratefully acknowledge the assistance of several who have aided in the determination of difficult material.
The Sphairiidae were examined by Dr. V. Sterki.
Dr. Bryant Walker has identified or confirmed the identifications of the Physas and Lymnaeas as well as some of the other freshwater snails.
Dr. H. A. Pilsbry has determined many of the smaller and more difficult land snails and has examined both shells and soft anatomy of the Oreohelices.
The Physas and Sphferiidse of the region are not well understood and difficult at the best.
Hence many of the determinations must be considered tentative.
In a number of instances also the material is in poor condition for determination.
Rupert Idaho.
The following species in the University of Colorado Museum were collected by Mr. Fayre Kenegy along the Snake River near Rupert in 1913 Pisidium sp.
Lymncea near traskii Tryon.
Sphcerium sp.
Physa sp.
A nodonta nuttaUiana Lea.
A ncyliis crassus Hald.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
The Sphcerium is apparently the same puzzling species as that from Sta.
74 near Ovid Idaho.
Idaho Falls Idaho.
The following species were collected by Daniels in and on the banks of Snake River Idaho Falls in August 1915 Sphoeriumnesir aureum Prime.
Lymncea humilis modicella Say.
Pisidium compressum Prime var.
Lymncea humilis rustica Lea.
Zonitoides nitida Miill..
Lymncea apicina solida Lea.
Succinea haydeni W. G. B. Planorhis parvus Say.
Succinea oregonensis gahbii Tryphysa near gyrina Say.
on
Physa ampullacea Gld.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
The Lymnseas and Physas were identified by Walker.
.
We record Physa ampidlacea from a number of stations all the material having been identified or identifications confirmed by Walker.
Gould' described this form from Oregon under the name P. bullata in 1855.
In 1865 Binney republished the description figured the species and at Gould's suggestion renamed it atnpullacea the name bullata being preoccupied.
He recorded it also from Washington.
Mean3 Proc.
Boston Soc.
Nat.
Hisl. V p. 128 1855.
 Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America Part II p. 79 figs.
133 134 135 1865. time in 1864 Lea described Physa nuttallii from Lewis River Oregon but did not figure it.
If as we suspect and as Dr. Pilsbry Mss.
concluded some years ago these names are synonyms 7iuttallii has priority.
In that event all our records of P. ampullacea should be changed to nuttallii Lea.
The Sphcerium from Idaho Falls and the McCammon stations are doubtfully referred to S. aureum Prime by Sterki.
The beaks of the McCammon examples are less elevated than the beaks of the Idaho Falls material.
The tjTpe locality of Lymncea hinkleyi Baker is the North Fork of Snake River eastern Idaho and therefore must be not far north or northeast of Idaho Falls.
The type locality of Lymncea jacksonensis Baker is Jackson Lake Wyoming which is drained bj' the South Fork of Snake River and the species is also recorded from Snake River.
Baker in his monograph records Lymncea apicina solida Lea from Salmon River Idaho.
Dubois Idaho.
In August 1915 Daniels collected the following species in Beaver Creek at Dubois Pisidium compressum Prime.
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Pisidium sp.
Physa sparsestriata Tryon
Lymncea humilis rusiica Lea.
The McCammon Idaho District.
We revisited stations 1 1 and 2 of 1915 and also established several other stations.
Sta.
1 west side of Port Neuf River about a mile north of McCammon.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
is very abundant under wild cherry wild rose and various shrubs among large blocks of lava at the foot of a low bluff.
Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Pils. three dead shells.
On the banks of the nearby slough we found Lymncea proxima Lea Pisidium Sterki says P. huachucanum Pils. compare also P. ashmuni and Physa ampidlacea Old.
In 1915 at this place Daniels found a few Succinea doubtfully identified at the time by Walker as S. oregonensis gahhi Tryon.
Pilsbry says ''It is not gdbhi.
Just what it is I do not know.
Has the microscopic sculpture of stretchiana but seems too big and too long.
With a good series one might come to some conclusion.
Sta.
62 Port Neuf River east of Sta.
1.
Sphcerium near aureum spRoc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. XVI p. 116 1864.
Prime and Fluminicola fusca Hakl both abundant one example of Physa identified by Walker as P. ampullacea var.
close to propinqua.
Sta.
1 about ten miles above McCammon on south side of Port Neuf River north side of gulch on east side of mountain about three miles south of west from Lava Hot Springs.
Oreohelixtenuistriata H. and D. This is the type locality of the species the description of which was based upon three imperfect and immature examples.
We revisited the station where a search of several hours resulted in obtaining about thirty specimens alive mostly immature and twice as many dead shells under shrubs and mats of the radical leaves of Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt.
 overhanging small piles of limestone in open spaces among the mountain mahoganies which are here the largest we have seen.
The dense blanket of small leaves directly under the mahoganies is not favorable to the snails.
This material shows that the species is a larger finer one than was indicated by the tj'pe and cotypes and compels an amendment of the description as follows Shell rather depressed to moderately elevated whorls 5 convex carinated almost to the aperture color very light brown with two almost undiscernible darker spiral bands one well above the other scarcely below the periphery.
The spiral riblets on the best specimens especially bleached ones may be seen with the unaided eye.
The two largest examples measured are each 13.5 mm.
in major diameter and one is 8 mm. the other 9.5 mm.
in altitude.
Otherwise the original description holds good.
The beautiful sculpture distinguishes it from all other species of the genus we have examined.
Pilsbry writes that in genitalia this species is of the haydeni type.
In the gulch bottom just below the Oreohelixslope among aspens and mountain maples we obtained Vitrina alaskana Dall Zonitoides arhorea Say Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey and Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pilsbry.
Sta.
63 next gulch north of Sta.
1.
We found here a few Oreohelixtenuistriata H.  D. Sta.
64 bank of Port Neuf River two or three miles below Sta.
63.
We obtained here the following Sphcerium near aureum Prime Pyramidida cronkhitei anthonyi abundant.
 Pils.
Succinea avara Say.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
Succinea rusticana Gld.
Lymncea humilis modicella Say.
Planorbig' parvus Say.
It is probable that the Sphcerium and the Fluminicola may be found in favorable situations all along the stream and the former was noted as a fossil in the alluvial banks of the river at several places.
Sta.
2 south side of Harkness Canyon at the springs near a great white cliff plainly visible from McCammon.
The large heavyshelled Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 noted for this station in our former report occurs in limestone slides on a steep slope almost concealed by a heavy cover of conifers with an undergrowth of mountain maples and various shrubs.
A conifer forest is an unusual habitat for such a fine colony of Oreohelix
In the bottomland below the slides ' we found dead shells of Thysanophora ingersolli Bland plentiful in fine drift wood and a short distance down the canyon we obtained Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. Zonitoides arhorea Say Vitrina alaskana Dall and Vallonia cydopliorella Ancey.
Sta.
65 east side of gulch coming into Harkness Canyon from the north above Sta.
2.
Large Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
abundant in more open cleaner slides than at Sta.
2 with few trees and much less shrubbery and herbage.
Sta.
66 Goodenough Canyon on east side of a mountain range about five miles west of McCammon.
We drove to the end of the road up the canyon then walked a mile further.
Found no limestone no good rock slides and no Oreohelixbut under leaves and sticks we obtained the following  Zonitoides arhorea Say.
Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils.
Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Punctum n. sp.
Pils.
Vertigo modesta parietalis Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Ancey.
Thysanophora ingersolli Bland .
Bear Lake Valley Idaho and Utah.
Bear Lake at an altitude of 5925 feet is about nineteen miles long north to south and from six to eight miles in width bisected by the UtahIdaho boundary line.
It is bounded on the east west and south by mountains but the broad valley extends to the northward beyond Montpelier to Bennington thus giving the valley a length of forty miles drained by the Bear River which flows into Great Salt Lake.
In the Geologic Atlas of the United States United States Geo'Ogical Survey the region is covered by the Montpelier Idaho and Randolph Utah Quadrangle sheets.
We did not visit the eastern or southern shores of the lake but spent half a day at the northern end and examined the western shore at various places.
We found no living moUusks in the lake itself.
This may be due to the fact that the water was considerably above the usual level and we were not prepared for dredging.
The sloughs and streams of the valley furnished quite a number of species of freshwater mollusks alive and the mountains and canyons bordering the valley yielded land snails.
Sta.
67 just within the mouth of Montpelier Canyon northwest of Montpelier Idaho on the south side of the canyon.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
abundant mostly immature under shrubbery on slope beneath a limestone ledge almost devoid of rock slides.
Although the snow from a two days' storm June 2021 was just melting on June 22 the snails were all active and hence easy to find.
Mature examples from this station measure about 20 mm.
in diameter.
Vitrina alaskana Dall was noted on a ditch bank.
This Vitrina we found at almost every station where we found Oreohelixbut we did not always collect it and perhaps in some instances failed to record it in the notebook.
Sta.
68 three miles up Montpelier Canyon on the north side of a ravine that comes in from the east.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
plentiful nearly all mature in limestone rock slides mature examples varying from 17 mm.
to 21.5 mm.
in diameter mostly about 20 mm.
Sta.
69 south side of the same gulch opposite Sta.
68 and not more than 150 feet distant.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
 live examples scarce dead shells plentiful under shrubbery on a limestone slope devoid of rock slides.
Though separated from Sta.
69 only by the narrow bed of the gulch and with the more favorable north exposure the snails here are much smaller the shells varying from 13.5 mm.
to 15.5 mm.
in diameter.
Lack of cover does not appear to be the cause of the difference in size as the cover at Sta.
67 is about the same.
Sta.
70 canyon about two miles north of Montpelier.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
 of fair size but not plentiful in edges of limestone slides.
Sta.
71 a short distance up Bennington Canyon east of Bennington north of Montpelier.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
 large robust very abundant under shrubbery especially wild roses on steep banks of creek active among the tiny patches of snow remaining from the late storm.
None found in the big sandstone slides on the slope above the brush and trees of the narrow bottomland.
Sta.
72 sloughs on east side of Bear River on both sides of the MontpelierOvid wagon road.
We here obtained the following Sphcerium sp.
Lymnoea utahensis Call.
Musculium n. sp.
Planorhis trivolvis near hinneyi Succinea rusticana Gld.
Tryon.
Valvata humeralis calif ornica Planorhis parvus Say.
Pils.
Planorhis exacuous Say.
Lyjjmceastagnalisappressaay.
Physaampullacea Gld.
Lyynncea proxima Lea.
Aplexa hypnorum Linn..
The Planorhis trivolvis at all stations in this valley reaches great size  up to 35 mm.
in diameter in some instances.
They have the strong transverse sculpture of the variety hinneyi but the whorls are not quite so conspicuously straplike as those from Sta.
127 at Utah Lake.
Caddis larvae cases from one of the sloughs are composed almost wholly of Planorhis parvus P. exacuous and other small shells and shell fragments.
Planorhis exacuous was described by Say in 1821 under this name as thus spelled apparently a poorly formed adjective from exacuo or from acuo referring to the sharp periphery.
It should have been spelled either exacuus or exacutus.
Gould'' in 1841 inserted the t saying I cannot but think that the name under which this shell appears in the 'Journal of the Academy' is not exactly as it was intended by the author as it is neither a Latin word nor a Latin termination.
Supposing that by a typographical error an o has taken the place of a t we have a legitimate term and one very expressive of the form of the shell.
In his synonymy he gives the original spelling.
Haldeman in his monograph 1842 follows Gould but in the synomany he also cites the name as originally published.
Unfortunately Binney in 1865 adopting Gould's form of the name in his synonymy of the species cited Say's original description as though it had been spelled exacutus.
As the latter is the work most generally accessible and used for reference it has misled many subsequent writers.
If the original name were clearly a misprint and we could ascertain just what was intended the rules of nomenclature would justify its correction.
It is conceivably though not likel' a case of poor judgment in the formation of the word and not a typographical error.
If a printer's error it seems more likely that the printer well accustomed to the common English syllable ous had carelessly inserted an o in exacuus  JouRX.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. II p. 165 1821.
'A Report on the Invertebrata of Massachusetts pp.
208209 1841.
See also Binney's edition of the same pp.
49.5496 1870.
 Land and Fresh Water Shells of North America Part II p. 126. than that he had replaced the t in exacutus with an o.
We have no way of ascertaining which form the author intended.
Hence we beUeve the original spelling should be retained bad as it is and it is no worse in this respect than many other names in general use.
Sta.
74 southwest of Sta.
72 about two miles north of east from Ovid Idaho where the railroad track crosses Bear Lake outlet.
Dead shells of the following species were found in the loose sand on the bank of the stream  Sphcerium sp.
Valvata humeralis californica Pils.
Pisidium compressum Prime.
Valvata utahensis Call.
Pisidium near variahile Prime.
Carinifex newherryi Lea.
Anodonta loahlametensis Lea
Lymncea proxima Lea.
1 broken valve.
Planorhis trivolvis near hinneyi Succinea haydeni W. G. B. 
Try on.
2 broken shells.
Planorhis parvus Say.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
The Sphcerium is very large but Sterki does not consider it S. pilsbryanum St. which would be expected in this vicinity.
He does not venture to name these specimens.
Sta.
75 slough from Mill Creek drainage beside the railroad tracks a mile north of east from Ovid.
Musculium n. sp.
abundant gravid.
Sta.
76 Mill Creek where railroad crosses it south of Ovid.
Anodonta nuttalliana Lea one Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say.
alive.
Planorhis trivolvis near hinneyi Sphcerium sp. 3 fresh shells Tryon.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
Physa ampullacea Gd.
Sta.
73 three or four miles up Paris Canyon west of Paris Idaho.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
common under shrubbery on limestone slopes devoid of slides.
A search for small snails in an aspen grove near by proved surprisingly fruitless.
Sta.
77 half a mile up St. Charles Canyon west of St. Charles Idaho.
Oreohelixhaydeni hyhrida Hemph.
 with sculpture less pronounced than in the Logan colony common under the radical leaves of Balsamorrhiza sagittata and shrubs on a limestone slope devoid of rock slides.
A few Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey and quite a number of Pupilla muscorum idahoensis n. subsp.
were found.
Pupilla muscorum idahoensis n. subsp.
Differs uniformly from typical P. muscorum L. in its more slender form and thinner lip.
Color light to dark brown.
The type in the University of Colorado Museum measures 3.1 mm.
in altitude 1.3 mm.
in width.
Whorls 6.
Common at Sta.
77 west of St. Charles Idaho June 27 1916.
Sta.
78 natural turnpike forming the northern barrier of Bear Lake and separating it from Mud Lake and Dingle Swamp.
The sandy soil of this broad barrier is in places composed largely of fossil shells of the same species that abound along the beach leading to the belief that the beach shells have mostly been washed from the sand by the waves and are fossil.
Though we found no live mollusks in the lake many of the shells especially Lymncea and Planorhis were rather fresh and all were of species that might be expected to now live in the region though only two or three of the species were actually taken alive in the valley.
As the lake is now used to regulate the flow of water in the streams and ditches the water level fluctuates considerably and at the time of our visit the water in the lake as well as in the streams was high.
The beach material yielded the following Sphwrium pilsbryanum Sterki.
Valvata utahensis Call .
Pisidium compressum Prime.
Planorhis trivolvis near binneyi Pisidimn n. sp.
Tyon.
Pyramidula cronkhitei anihonyi Planorhis parvus Say.
Pils.
Planorhis exacuous Say.
Vertigo ovata Say.
Physa ampullacea Gld.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
Aiicylus sip.
Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Carinifex newherryi Lea.
Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say.
Valvata humeralis calif ornica Pils.
Lymncea utahensis Call.
Baker in his Lymnseidse of North America records L. proxima also from the Utah end of the lake.
L. utahensis at this station is on the average more elongate than those from the type locality at Utah Lake but on the whole they cannot be separated.
Valvata h. californica is here more highly polished and closely coiled than at Sta.
127 Utah Lake.
Sta.
79 roadside pools west of Sta.
78 near St. Charles.
Lymncea proxima Lea and Aplexa hypnoruni L..
Sta.
80 bank of St. Charles Creek at the north edge of the town Agriolimax campestris montana Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Ing..
Pils.
Succinea avara Say.
Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils.
Zonitoides arhorea Say.
Sta.
8' three miles up St. Charles Canyon west of St. Charles Idaho.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
found sparmgly in sandstone slides and about limestone ledges.
In the watercress of a small seepage channel from the creek we found Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Lymncea obrussa Say.
PJujsa ampuUacea Gld.
Succinea rusticana Gld.
Sta.
82 mouth of Garden City Canyon west of Garden City Utah on south side of canyon.
Oreohelixhaydeni hyhrida Hemph..
typical as at Logan common under small shrubs and especially under the matted radical leaves of Balsamorrhiza sagittata Nutt.
 on limestone slopes devoid of rock slides.
We also found a few Pwpilla hlandi Morse.
The slopes are now very barren but we were informed by pioneers that fortyfive jears ago they were well covered with large mountain mahogany up to a foot in diameter as at Sta.
H in the IMcCammon district.
These trees furnished fuel for the early settlers but wasteful cutting and fires have denuded the hills for some miles back and overgrazing y stock has been disastrous to the smaller shrubs and herbs.
It is difficult to believe that snails could obtain a foothold under present conditions but having flourished here under more favorable conditions they have been able thus far to survive the change in environment.
Erosion is rapidly carrying the soil and vegetative debris from beneath the scant shrubbery and may soon destroy the colony unless saved hj a series of years of increased moisture favorable to plant growth.
Sta.
83 south side of next canyon south of Sta.
82 and about half a mile distant.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
abundant but much smaller than at most localities where we have found this species diameter 14 mm.
to 15.5 mm..
These specimens agree with those from Eureka Utah in their small size and the absence of the color bands from below many of them having no color bands at all.
Sta.
84 stagnant pool bj the roadside two miles south of Garden City Utah.
Lymncea obrussa Say abundant L. humilis modicella Say rare.
Sta.
85 along wagon road from Garden City to Logan a mile east of the Sink Holes east of the crest of the divide.
We picked up one large bleached shell of Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
 but as we had a hard day's trip ahead we did not stop to search for more.
Preston Idaho.
Sta.
97 bank of Bear River south and southeast of the wagon bridge due west of Preston.
A layer of sand in the bank several feet in thickness yielded the following fossils MargarUana'margaritifera'L.
Fluminicola fusca Hald.
Sphcerium sp.
Lymncea traskii Tryon.
Succinea grosvenori Lea 
Sta.
98 bottomland near Sta.
97.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
abundant under leaves in clumps of rose bushes scrub willows etc.
This station a flat soil area entirely free from rocks and some distance from ledges is an unusual site for a fine colony of Oreohelix
The same species is common under similar conditions at Montrose Colorado.
Sta.
99 slough west of Sta.
98 north of wagon road.
Lymncea traskii Lea 
 dead shells abundant fairly fresh live examples not found.
Physa ampullacea Gould one dead shell.
A similar slough across the road yielded no mollusks at all.
Sta.
100 muddy bank of river due north of Sta.
99.
Succinea avara Say common under overhanging willows.
Weston Idaho.
Sta.
59 cliff of igneous rock about three miles northwest of Weston.
Though the place from a distance looked like good snail territory we succeeded in finding only a very few scorched shells which seem to be a small form of Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll..
A jear or two before a fierce fire had swept the mountain burning the leaves and sticks to the very bottom of the rock slides but the scarcity of ''bones shows that the snails were not at all plentiful before the fire.
We also visited a goodlooking mountain southwest of Weston in the northern edge of Utah but found no snails there.
Sta.
60 irrigating ditch southeast of Sta.
59 about onethird of the way to town Succinea oregonensis Lea.
Lymncea hulimoides cockerelli Pils.
Lymncea humilis modicella Say.
and Ferr.
Physa crandalli Baker 
So far as we know this is the only record of L. h. cockerelli for Idaho though the Montana Colorado New Mexico and Nevada records would lead one to expect it in Idaho Utah and Wyoming.
Sta.
61 stagnant roadside pool southeast of Sta.
60 about a mile northwest of Weston.
Lymncea traskii Tryon typical according to Walker common young very abundant.
In 1915 Daniels obtained from the banks of the Bear River east of Weston Succinea haydeni W. G. B. and Lymncea proxima Lea.
1917.
natural sciences of philadelphia.
61 The Franklin District Idaho and Utah.
Franklin is only a mile or two north of the southern boundary of Idaho due east of Weston.
We visited a goodlooking hill about four miles northeast of towTi where we found the vegetative cover poor and no snails.
Sta.
93 dry slope southeast of Franklin about half way to the base of the mountain due north of the type locality of Oreohelixhaydeni cornigata H.  D. Succinea oregonensis Lea was very abundant among the quartzite and red sandstone boulders thickly strevii over the surface of the gentle slope sheltered by very scant vegetation growing close to the rocks.
Tracks of horses and cattle made when the ground is soft after rains hold a little water for a short time after storms thus insuring periods of activity sufficient to sustain a very prosperous colony of these snails.
They were clinging to the rocks and to the soil beneath by means of a glutinous substance which caused the snails to stick to our fingers and tweezers in removing them from the rocks.
Dry membranous ''scars adhering to the rocks showed former places of attachment during periods of inactivity reminding one of Sojiorella scars.
We obtained over a thousand specimens alive in a very short time on the Idaho side of the boundary then found dead shells all along the way across the line into Utah to the edge of the mouth of High Creek Canyon but not realizing at the time that we were crossing the line we did not look for live examples.
Sta.
94 small reservoir in shallow ravine north of Sta.
93.
Physa ampuUacea Old. scarce.
Sta.
95 north side of High Creek Canyon southeast of Sta.
93 just within the mouth of the canyon and continuing some distance up the canyon on the same side.
Oreohelixstrigosa fragilis Hemph.
in quartzite and red sandstone slides.
Sta.
96 similar slides a mile or so up the canyon on the south side the same subspecies scarce.
Further up the canyon the walls are of limestone but strange to say our brief search there did not yield snails.
Hemphill states that the t'pe locality of fragilis is near Franklin Idaho among Red Sandstone.
The topography suggests this canyon as a very likely one for him to have visited the other likely one being two or three miles to the north a little north of east from Franklin and hence in Idaho.
Our stations for this subspecies 39 1915 95 and 96 1916 are all in Utah.
If Hemphill's type locality is any of these three then the only Idaho station known ior fragilis is Franklin Butte west of the town our Sta.
38 1915.
62 proceedings of the academy of feb. Smithfield Utah.
Sta.
101 limestone butte about two miles northeast of Smithfield.
Oreohelixperipherica Ancey almost devoid of color bands  the binneyi form.
A few live snails were found by persistent search but dead bleached shells were very abundant on the slopes to the top of the butte thence to the north slope of the entrance to the canyon to the southeast.
The butte has been considerably denuded by overgrazing and erosion has washed the soil and dead leaves from beneath the shrubs and Balsamorrhiza that formerly afforded shelter for the snails.
Bleached shells almost whitened the ground down the slopes from clumps of bushes where now there is no snail cover at all.
It is difficult to see how the shrubbery can long continue to exist.
As this butte is only six miles south of the Oreohelixhaydeni corrugata butte and the two buttes are of the same character we expected to find that subspecies here but failed to do so.
Three buttes of similar character placed at intervals of about six miles and almost in line our stations 38 40 and 101 yielded respectively 0. s. fragilis 0. h. corrugata and 0. peripherica.
We worked up the large canyon southeast of Sta.
101 for several miles and were surprised to find no snails in it.
The Logan Utah District.
This region is covered by the Logan Quadrangle topographic sheet of the United States Geological Survey issued since our visit.
Sta.
86 north fork of Logan Canyon about sixteen miles from Logan and three miles above  the forks. 
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
abundant under mountain maples at the edges of limestone slides where the blanket of leaves was thick but a few large rocks and roots provided clinging places for the snails.
We also obtained the following species Thysanophora ingersolli Bland .
Zonitoides arborea Say .
Pupilla blandi Morse 
one Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi broken shell.
Pils.
Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Succinea avara Say.
Euconulus fidvus alaskensis Pils.
Thysanophora ingersolli was described by Bland in 1875 under the name Helix ingersollii from specimens obtained in Colorado.
IngersolP republished the description in 1876 under the name 9 Ann.
N. Y. Lye.
Nat.
Hist. XI p. 151 1875.
 10 8th Ann.
Kept.
Hayden's U. S. Geol.
and Gcofr.
Surv.
Terr. for 1874 pp.
397398 1876.
Microphysa ingersolli with three outHne figures which do not adequately represent the material he collected or any specimens we have seen from Colorado or elsewhere and the lateral view is misleading.
Binney in 1878 1885 1886 and 1890 again published misleading figures perhaps based upon the original figures.
These all represent a shell with apex so depressed that it does not show at all above the last whorl in lateral view.
In 1887 Anceyrelying upon the supposed accuracy of those misleading figures as he plainly indicates and finding that his specimens of Thysanophora collected by Hemphill in Logan Canyon Utah exhibited a spire elevated clearly above the last whorl described it under the name Microphysa ingersolli convexior.
Meanwhile Binney in his second supplement in presenting what he said was a better figure of ingersolli recorded under that name material collected by Hemphill doubtless part of the same lot of material from which Ancey's types came at Logan Canyon and Mt.
Nebo Utah and also Weston Oregon.
We have examined Thysanophoras from two stations in Logan Canyon a number of other localities in Utah and Idaho and many localities in Colorado some of them near the type locality of ingersolli and can see no difference none of them being accurately represented by the figures of ingersolli.
Specimens from Logan Canyon were sent to Pilsbry who compared them with Ingersoll's specimens of ingersolli.He agrees with us that the names are exact synonyms ingersolli of course having priority.
In 1890 Professor T. D. A. Cockerell was permitted to examine and copy portions of Ancey's manuscript notes including notes on his M. i. convexior with pen and ink figures.
We have examined his copies of Ancey's figures and the one labelled ingersolli represents Binney's misleading figure of the species while the one labelled convexior is an excellent illustration of the shell found in Montana Idaho Utah Colorado New Mexico and doubtless Wyoming and which must take the name ingersolli.
It is interesting to note that though Binney recorded ingersolli from Weston Oregon collected by Hemphill Pilsbry' recorded and figured specimens from the same place under the name convexior because they had the spire considerably higher than material from Colorado and elsewhere.
This confirms our conclusion that Binney was really dealing with a form having a slightly raised spire while 11 Bin y Terr.
Moll.
U. S. vol.
V p. 173 2d Suppl. p. 35 PI.
Ill fig.
5 3d Suppl. p. 215 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 170.
12 The Conchologist's Exchange vol.
II p. 64 1887.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. LXIl 117 1910. figuring one with the spire depressed out of sight in lateral view.
If further material shows the Oregon form to be worthy a name it should be given a new one and not called convexior.
Sta.
87 just within mouth of Logan Canyon on south side.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
very abundant rather small nearly white with two conspicuous usually broad dark brown bands which almost invariably extend to the aperture.
These are the most conspicuously banded snails we found during the two seasons' work except 0. peripherica form albofasciata.
They were found scattered for a mile up the canyon and were quite abundant in a small rock slide covered by Clematis.
This station also yielded the following Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Thysanophora ingersolli Bland.
Pyramidula cronkkitei anthonyi Euconulus fulvus alaskensis VAs.
Pils.
A spring choked with watercress yielded Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Sterki doubtfully recorded Vallonia gracilicosta Reinh.
from Logan Canyon.
Sta.
88 about a mile up on the south side of next large canyon about two miles to the north from Logan Canyon.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 a few alive under mountain maples in the edges of rock slides dead shells common.
Sta.
89 between 87 and 88 along the west slope of the mountain.
Oreohelixhaydeni hyhrida Hemph.
 dead shells scattered but especially common where limestone ledges are exposed at the mouths of small ravines.
About a dozen live snails were found under sagebrush in rock slides but none under Balsamorrhiza which is usually excellent cover for Oreohelixwhere it droops over rocks.
Here the plant was found in loose soil not about the rocks.
The evidence is abundant that the vegetative cover has here been greatly reduced by overgrazing followed as usual in such cases by active erosion.
The olony is likely near extinction.
A few dead shells of Vitjina alaskana Dall were found.
Sta.
90 several steep short ravines on the west slope of the mountains south of Logan Canyon and south of our Sta.
42 1915.
Oreohelixhaydeni hyhrida Hemph.
found sparingly in all of these ravines.
This form seems to be here confined to such situations and is not found in the larger canyons which are the best places for depressa and cooperi.
I.
1 Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. 1893 p. 270 Man.
Conch. 2d Ser. vol.
VIII p. 256.
Sta.
42 where in 1915 we collected 0. h. hybrida jaelded in 1916 a single example of Thysanophora ingersolli Bland one Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils. and three Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Sta.
91 Providence Canyon southeast of Providence and about four miles from Logan.
OreoheJix strigosa depressa Ckll.
and 0. cooperi W. G.
B.
 both rather small dead shells plentiful a few live examples found under mountain maples and various shrubs in rock slides.
Sta.
92 a small stream choked with watercress a mile south of Logan yielded Succinea rusticana Gld. Lymncea proxima Lea and Physa ampidlacea Gld.
Baker in his Lymnseidae of North America records L. proxima Lea and L. stagnaUs wasatchensis Hemph.
from near Logan.
Clarkston Utah.
Sta.
57 Newton town reservoir about half way between Trenton and Clarkston MuscuUum sp.
Planorhis trivolvis hornii Tryon.
Muscidium rykholti Normand.
Planorhis exacuous Saj.
Succinea avara Say.
Plajiorhis parvus Say.
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Physa ampullacea Gould.
Planorhis trivolvis hornii so identified by Pilsbry here varies from 19 mm.
to 24 mm.
in diameter.
Our former record of P. trivolvis from Cache Junction should be referred to this form.
IngersolP recorded hornii from Utah.
Sta.
58 mountainside due west of the southern portion of Clarkston half a mile south of Sta.
3 1915.
Oreohelixrugosa Hemph.
abundant and very robust under Balsamorrhiza sagittata and small bushes around limestone ledges.
In places the ground is almost white with bleached shells and we obtained a thousand live ones in a short time.
In our former report we suggested p. 334 the possibility that 0. hendersoni dakani Hend.
might be a synonym of rugosa a suspicion then shared bj Pilsbry.'' We have since visited the type locality of dakani at Newcastle Colorado and obtained a large quantity of live specimens.
Dr. Pilsbry has examined the anatomy of both forms and reports that they are distinct the anatomy of dakani proving its relationship to hendersoni as was 15 8th Ann.
Rept.
Havden's U. S. Geol and Geog.
Surv.
Terr. for 1874 p. 404. i Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci.
Phila. LXVIII 353 1916.
5 originally assumed from shell characters alone while the anatomy of rugosa connects it with the coojieri group.
While in this district we discovered that our 0. peripherica stations 4 and 36 1915 are on opposite sides of the same small mountain.
We were misled before by the fact that Daniels had approached his Sta.
4 from one direction while we had together at a later date approached Sta.
36 from another direction.
Deweyville Utah.
Deweyville Postoffice is in Box Elder County Utah fifteen mile north of Brigham.
Some confusion is likely to arise from the fact that the railroads both steam and electric passing through the town have abbreviated the name to Dewey though some maps and gazetteers locate a Dewey post village in Grand County.
Specimens of Oreohelixcollected and labelled by Hemphill in the collection of Mr. Daniels bear the locality label ''Dewey Box Elder Co. Utah and are designated as utahensis.
Specimens in the Hemphill collection in the cabinet of Mrs. Ida S. Oldroyd and others placed by her in the University of Colorado Museum were labelled by Hemphill  Smooth variety of hinneyi passing into albida.
Dewey Utah.
Large.
Another lot designated by him as var.
albida is from Collinston Utah Avhich is about five miles north ofDeweyville and three lots labelled albida by him are from Logan according to the labels.
A careful examination of this material under a lens convinces us that it is identical with the smooth form of 0. h. hybrida from Sta.
102 which grades so completely into typical hybrida that we cannot consider it entitled to a separate name even as a form.
Sta.
102 mouth of first gulch northeast of Deweyville.
Oreohelixhaydeni hybrida Hemph.
 periphery quite rounded and spiral sculpture obscure in most examples common under wild cherrj and mountain maple overhanging limestone slides composed chiefly of small fragments.
Vitrina alaskana Dall common.
Sta.
103 next gulch south of Sta.
102 southeast of Deweyville.
Oreohelixhaydeni hybrida Hemph.
under same conditions as at Sta.
102 specimens more or less angled but not on the average so much so as at Sta.
104 sculpture more pronounced than at Sta.
102 and less so than at Sta.
104.
Sta.
104 gulch about two miles south of Sta.
103 east of Madsen.
Oreohelixhaydeni hybrida Hemph.
common under same conditions as at Sta.
102 strongly angled to slightly keeled spiral sculpture well developed as seen under a lens but much less pronounced than in gabbiana from Oquirrh Mountains though many specimens are more angular than typical hijhrida from Logan.
The material of these three stations taken as a whole seems to be clearly hyhrida and the variation within such short distances is characteristic of the various subspecies of haydeni wherever we have found small colonies of them not far apart as at Devil's Slide and Oquirrh Mountain Utah and at Glenwood Springs Colorado.
Ogden Utah.
Sta.
105 mouth of Ogden Canyon.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa CklL dead shells about the granite and quartzite slides for a mile up the canyon on both sides.
Live examples were found by a moment's search at several points particularly abundant under a large mat of Clematis on one quartzite slide.
Bleached shells also extend along the west slope of the mountains to a gulch about a mile to the north as far as we went.
Brush fires swept the mountains some years ago so the vegetative cover is now very poor and erosion is rapidly stripping the steep slopes.
Binney recorded Pupilla Uandi Morse from Ogden and Vertigo corpulenta Morse from Ogden Canyon.
Probably the latter record should be referred to V. modesta parietalis Ancey of which Ogden Canyon is the type locality.
Binney's material recorded as corpulenta was collected by Hemphill and the fact that other material described by Ancey at about this time was received by him from the same collector makes the supposition that his parietalis was obtained by Hemphill reasonable and hence probably Binney's and Ancey's records are not only from the same canyon but from the same lot of material.
Sta.
106 a small sluggish stream on south side of valle' about a mile below the mouth of Ogden Canyon Fluminicola fusca Hald..
Physa crandalli Baker 
Lymncea traskii Tryon.
Oreohelixperipherica wasatchensis Hemph..
Sta.
108 base of river terrace south and southeast of Sta.
106 alluvium enclosing fragments of limestone.
Dead shells abundant about 25 live examples found in a scrub oak and mountainmaple thicket.
At this station the shells vary greatly in form many being not distinctly carinated and much flatter and smoother than typical wasatchensis thus forming an intergrading series between tpical  2d Suppl.
to 5th vol.
Terr.
Moll p. 40.
18 The Conchologists' Exchange vol.
II p. 80 1887. wasatchensis from the next station and peripherica from other localities.
As we had expected Pilsbry's report on the soft anatomy is that the genitalia of wasatchensis and peripherica agree.
As usual Vitrina alaskana Dall is common at this station.
Sta.
109.
This station is east of but continuous with Sta.
108 the separation having been made only because of the greater variation at the lower end of the colony.
Following up a draw toward the mountain the smoother depressed nonangular form soon disappeared but the typical highspired strongly ribbed carinated form was found plentifully under the leaves often with very scant cover a single small leaf being sometimes sufficient though the weather was hot and dry.
The colony continues up the mountain slope into a quartzite slide where many of the large pieces of rock are well rounded.
Some years ago brush fires burned the leaves to the bottom of the slides along this slope so we were able to find no live snails above the brush in the ravine and along the side of the valley which was not touched by fire.
We had very carefully searched the region for several miles north and south and up the canyon for this species but without success until we reached this place which seemed to be the last chance.
We are quite convinced that it is the exact type locality of the subspecies.
It answers Hemphill's description as no other place we found does but he does not appear from his notes to have worked clown into the gulch where the live snails are plentiful now.
The topography and an old abandoned road make it seem likely that he would have passed over this quartzite slide on his way to the mountain.
In his description he says This pretty and interesting shell I found among quartzite boulders in crevices sufficiently large to afford cool and moist retreats during the active summer season and safe places for hibernating during the cold months.
This shell seems to be confined in its range to a very limited area for I did not find a single specimen either dead or alive outside of a little plat containing an acre of ground.
The last sentence quoted agrees with our experience after collecting from 126 stations in Utah and southern Idaho.
Hemphill's statement that almost the first shell he picked up at Ogden was wasatchensis indicates that he did not go first into the canyon or he would have found there plenty of depressa and no wasatchensis.
Promontory Range.
This range of mountains forms a narrow peninsula jutting into Great Salt Lake from the north.
The southern portion formed an island perhaps twentyfive miles in length during the maximum expansion of ancient Lake Bonneville.
Hague's discussion is quoted at length by Butler and Heikes with additional information in a recent bulletin.
The isolation of the range and the presence of large bodies of limestone brush and trees lead us to believe that systematic work there would produce interesting results but our time was limited and the single day spent at the extreme southern end was disappointing.
The only moUusks we saw were Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey and Pupilla blandi Morse under small bushes in rock slides at Sta.
107 an isolated limestone butte close to the railroad station of Saline.
This butte was either covered by the waters of Lake Bonneville or formed only a tiny rocky island.
The vegetative cover across the southern slope of the range is everywhere too scant for the larger snails.
Morgan and Devil's Slide District Utah.
Oreohelixhaydeni Gabb was described from material said to have been obtained in ''Webber Canyon Utah. We have not been able to learn of any canyon bearing that name and are assured by men long and well acquainted with Utah that the wellknown Weber Canyon is the one intended.
Unfortunately that name has been sometimes used to designate the whole valley of the Weber River and its larger tributaries.
It is quite desirable to find this species alive in the type locality or elsewhere in order to ascertain the anatomy.
In 1915 we searched for it in what is more properly called Weber Canyon below Gateway without success.
In 1916 W'e made two trips to the upper canyon above Morgan without success so far as typical haydeni is concerned but found other interesting forms.
Between Morgan and Gateway a broad valley with canyons entering from both sides and the whole canyon south of Echo22 afford a large field as yet wholly untouched.
Binney's report of live haydeni received from Hemphill is incorrect as Hemphill did not find true haydeni though much of his material from the Oquirrh Mountains was sent out under that name Sta.
47 gulch on north side of valley about half a mile north of Morgan depot.
Oreohelixperipherica Ancey the binneyi Hemph.
form small from 11 mm.
to 16 mm.
in diameter mostly rather depressed a very few showing one or two spiral color bands. 
Hague U. S. Geol.
Explor.
40th Parallel vol.
2 pp.
420423.
20 Butler and Heikes U. S. Geol.
Surv. Bull.
No.
640A pp.
16.
2iylmer.
Journ.
Conch. V p. 24 PL 8 fig.
1.
22 See Coalville Quadrangle topographic sheet U. S. Geol.
Surv.
23 Terr.
Moll.
U. S. V. p. 159 Man.
Amer.
Land Shells p. 1G7.
Sta.
114 south side of canyon about a mile southeast of Morgan depot close to a big warm spring and picnic ground where the broad valley narrows into the canyon east side of a limestone ledge at the base of a red sandstone hill.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
abundant beneath Balsamorrhiza sagittata sagebrush and other herbs and shrubs overhanging the rocks but equally abundant deep in the red soil beneath such plants an unusual habitat for this subspecies.
Sta.
115 west side of the same ledge the same subspecies.
Stations 114 and 115 constitute really a single colony but we arbitrarily separated it and gave different numbers to our material because many of the shells from one side of the ledge are more depressed than those from the other side though the ledge is narrow and the colony actually extends across it.
Sta.
113 a short distance up the canyon from Sta.
114 on same side.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 dead shells very abundant on a limestone slope where the scrub oak and mountain maple thicket has recently been burned and all leaves and underbrush thus destroyed.
Sta.
112 big limestone slides not far above Sta.
113 on same side of canyon concealed from the road by tall shrubbery.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 small 15 mm.
to 18 mm.
in diameter white strongly banded.
Sta.
Ill next point of rocks about 200 yards east of Sta.
112 at foot of canyon wall beneath limestone ledge perhaps two miles east of Morgan.
Oreohelixperipherica Ancey common in leaves beneath scrub oaks and mountain maples showing complete intergradation between Hemphill's binneyi and albofasciata forms as at several stations in the Cache Junction district discussed in our former report.
This station is about 65 miles from Cache Junction in an air line.
0. peripherica at all other stations where we have found it lacks the albofasciata form so it is interesting to find the intergradation again at this most remote station for the species.
Sta.
110 some distance above Sta.
Ill on same side of canyon below the railroad tunnel nearly opposite Sta.
53.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 dormant deep in the rock slides and hard to find during the hot dry season when we were there.
Generally this subspecies has not been found by us very deep in the slides.
Sta.
48 both sides of and above the slide south side of canyon.
Devil's Slide Utah.
Oreohelixhaydeni hybrida Hemph.
common beneath the heavy drooping radical leaves of Balsamorrhiza on steep limestone slopes not in the rock slides.
Dead shells plentiful.
The vicinity is covered by a thick coat of lime dust from the cement plant.
It is strange that any live examples were found under the circumstances.
Sta.
49 west slope of first gulch that enters the canyon from the north below the Devil's Slide depot.
Oreohelixhaydeni form gabhiana Hemph.
under sagebrush mountain maple scrub oak wild cherry and other shrubs at the edges of limestone slides common alive dead shells plentiful.
The narrowleafed cottonwood grove in the bottomland beneath the slides yielded Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Vallonia gracilicosta Reinh.
Pils.
Pwpilla blandi Morse.
Zonitoides arhorea Say.
Sta.
50 pools beside the railroad track half a mile below Sta.
49.
Succinea rusticana Gld.
Aplexa hypnorum L..
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Physa crandalli Baker 
Sta.
51 below Sta.
50 opposite north of the railroad tunnel just east of a dry gulch that comes in from the north.
Oreohelixhaydeni form gabhiana Hemph.
plentiful in edges of rock slides.
The following were also found Vitrina alaskana Dall.
Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Euconulus fulvus alaskensis Pils.
Pils.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Sta.
52 across the mouth of the gulch just mentioned west of Sta.
51 thence along the base of the canyon wall for some distance around the curve.
Oreohelixhaydeni form gabbiana Hemph.
 less common than at Sta.
51.
Sta.
5.3 eastfacing slope southwest of Sta.
52 west of the railroad tunnel separated from Sta.
52 by a hundred yards or so of slope free from rock slides where we found no snails.
Oreohelixhaydeni form gabbiana Hemph.
 a few found alive dead shells plentiful.
Sta.
54 a mile down the canyon from Sta.
53 on an eastfacing slope where the wagon road approaches the railroad.
Oreohelixhaydeni hybrida Hemph.
 plentiful under poison ivy in rock slides.
The Oreohelices from stations 48 49 51 52 53 and 54 all belong to the haydeni group.
Hence the soft anatomy is the same and shell characters alone must be relied upon in their separation.
Not a single example has as strong spiral sculpture as tjpical haydeni or oquirrhensis though a few approach it.
0. h. hyhrida from its type locaUty at Logan is readily distinguished from 0. h. form gahbiana from its type locaUty in the Oquirrh Mountains but at these stations we have a puzzhng mixture and variation of characters so that the determinations are made with some hesitation.
The stations are not far apart and in the same canyon so they may almost be considered one large colony.
The form at the extremes of the colony so considered stations 48 and 54 seems referable to hyhrida a considerable proportion of those from Sta.
48 being typical others varying more or less in peripheral angulation and the altitude of the spire but the spiral sculpture in those from Sta.
54 is obscure much weaker than in the typical form.
Both lots have the whorls well rounded from above and below to the more or less angled but not keeled periphery.
The form at Sta.
49 next to 48 and Sta.
53 next to 54 we refer to gahbiana not typical.
It is really transitional from the hyhrida of 48 and 54 to the gahbiana of 51 and 52.
On the average the whorls are not so well rounded the spire flatter and the angulation more pronounced though they are somewhat variable in all these characters.
On the whole they seem more nearly related to the form at the nearest stations 51 and 52 than to the form at the more remote stations 48 and 54.
Some examples are entirely indistinguishable from material labelled utahensis from Hemphill's collection.
The form at stations 51 and 52 which we refer to gabhiana has a depressed spire and the whorls slope rather flatly from above and below to a keeled periphery.
The spiral sculpture is variable the primary spirals in some examples being nearly as strong as those in typical oquirrhensis though only indistinctly seen in others.
These forms are further discussed in the sections on Deweyville and Oquirrh Mountains.
Sta.
55 a small stream by the roadside perhaps a mile and a half above Morgan below Sta.
54.
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Aplexa hypnorum L. Physa ampuUacea Gld.
Sta.
56 pool by the roadside about a mile above Morgan just above where the wagon road crosses the railroad.
Pisidium near huachucanum Pils.
Lymncea humilis modicella Say.
Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Planorhis parvus Say.
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Physa ampul' acea Gld.

Sterki says of the Pisidium P. huachucanum Pils. or near.
Somewhat different' from the originals somewhat smaller all specimens may not be fullgrown  superior margin not so straight  beaks somewhat narrower. 
Stations 47 and 49 to 56 are all on the north side of the canyon while stations 48 and 110 to 115 are on the south side.
Salt Lake City Utah.
We did not stop at Salt Lake City to do any collecting in 1916 but have recently received from Mr. L. A. Giddings of that city two small lots of Oreohelixstrigosa depressa form carnea Hemph.
 one from his Sta.
1 upper slopes of Red Butte Canyon the other from his Sta.
2 close to the creek in City Creek Canyon.
In both lots the spires are much more elevated than usual but otherwise they correspond with Hemphill's specimens of carnea of which the type locality is near Salt Lake Utah and which we found in Dry Canyon in 1915.
Pilsbry writes that the anatomy is that of depressa.
It may be well to say that this form sent out by Hemphill is to be found in many cabinets bearing a printed label on which ly a typographical error an o has taken the place of an a making the name corneus which should be corrected.
We also note another typographical error in Hemphill's printed labels the i having been omitted from gabbiana.
CalP reported the following species from this locality PisidiumabditumHsdd.
  PisidValvata utahensis Call.
ium 
.
LymncEa stagnalis Linn.
M argaritana niargaritifera Pla7iorbis opercularis Gd.
Linn..
Planorbis parvus Say.
Anodonta nidtalliana Lea.
Planorbis trivolvis Say.
Valvata sincera y.
Physa gyrina elliptica Lesi.
As he placed A. wahlametensis Lea and A. californiensis Lea in the synonymy of A. nutialliana Lea which of these forms he found somewhat common in the freshwater streams near Salt Lake City is an open question.
His L. stagnalis is either appressd or wasatchensis.
Baker reports L. s. wasatchensis and L. proxima Lea from near Salt Lake City.
Yarrow reports L. stagnalis and Valvata sincera from near Salt Lake City.
IngersoU also records V. sincera from here.
Probably all these records of V. sincera should be referred 2U.
S. Geol.
Surv. Bull.
11 1884.
25 Lymneidse of North America pp.
152 3.59.
26 Wheeler's U. S. Geog.
Surv.
W. of 100th Meridian V pp.
941 948.
'' 8th Ann.
Rept.
Hayden's U. S. Geol.
and Geog.
Surv.
Terr. for 1874. p. 390. to V. himieraUs calif ornica Pils.
IngersoU also on the same page of his report records Fluminicola seminalis Hinds and F. hindsi Stm.
from Salt Lake Utah' and F. nuttalliana Stm.
from Warm Springs near Salt Lake Utah.
The two last mentioned may well be doubted.
He also on p. 399 records Succinea nuttalliana Lea from the Warm Springs locality  a doubtful record.
Binney records Succinea haydeni W. G. B. from Salt Lake City.
Utah Lake Utah.
This district is covered by the Salt Lake topographic sheet of the United States Geological Survey.
Utah Lake was included in Lake Bonneville during the  Lake Period. 
It now remains fresh because it has an outlet the Jordan River through which it drains into Great Salt Lake.
However the water is said to le not so free from salts as formerly owing to the extensive use of water for irrigation.
Cameron reports that the mineral content chiefly sodium chloride of the lake water increased from 300 parts of total solids per million parts of solution in 1883 to 1400 parts per million in 1903  a period of twenty years.
It is not likely that the salinity will increase so much as to be fatal to freshwater mollusks or even to seriously modify them.
CalF and Stearns have discussed the influence of temperature and salinity in modifjdng the shells of this region and the arid region farther west.
In his bulletin Call records the following species from Utah Lake Pisidium compressum Prime.
Lymncea stagnalis Linn.
Spheriu77i dentatum Hald..
LymncBa utahensis Call.
Ancylus sp.
Physa ampullacea Gld.
Carinifex newherryi Lea living.
Physa gyrina elliptica Lea.
Fluminicola jusca Hald..
His assertion that S. dentatum here attains great size strongly suggests that he really found P. pilshryanum Sterki which was not then described but has since been described from Bear Lake fossil and reported from Utah Lake recent by Sterki. Yarrowreports finding Lymncea stagnalis  appressa and Planorbis trivolvis Say 28 2d Suppl.
to 5th vol.
Terr.
Moll. p. 40.
 Cameron The Water of Utah Lake Science n. s. vol.
XXI p. 257 1905.
30 Call U. S. Geol.
Surv. Bull.
No.
11 1884.
Stearns Proc.
U. S. Nat.
Mus. XXIV 1901 271299 N. Amer.
Fauna No.
7 pp.
269283.
' Sterki Sphserium pilshryanum n.
sp. The Nautilus XXII pp.
141142 1909 A preliminary catalog of the North American Sphseriidse  Annals of Carnegie Museum X p. 437 1916.
'2 Yarrow Wheeler's U. S. Geog.
Surv.
W. of 100th Meridian V pp.
941 946947 1875. at Utah Lake but says he found the latter aUve at only one locality in Utah namely near Salt Lake City.
IngersolP reports Fluminicola fusca Hald.
from Utah Lake placing it in the family Amnicolidse and on the same page repeated the same record under the name Leptoxis fusca in the family Melaniidse.
His LHah Lake record of Lymnra catascopium Say cannot be accepted.
Pilsbry records Paludestrina longinqua Gld.
from Utah Lake Fluminicola fusca Hald.
from Utah Lake Bear Lake and Malad River and Amnicola limosa Say from Utah Lake and Spring Lake.
Sta.
127 shore of Utah Lake and adjacent slough two miles south of Lehi Utah.
Very few live moUusks were found except Succinea but dead shells were abundant as follows Sphcerium pilsbryanum Sterki.
Valvata humeralis calif ornica Pils.
Pisidium near variabile Prime.
Valvata utahensis Call type Pisidium sp.
locality.
Anodon'a luahlamatensis Lea.
Ancylus sp.
Succinea haydeni W. G. B. living.
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Vitrea hammoriis Strom.
Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say.
EuconulusfulvusalaskensisFils.
Lymncea utahensis Call type Zonitoides arhorea Say.
locality.
Carinifex newherryi Lea .
Lymncea humilis modicella Say.
Fluminicola seminalis Hinds .
Lymncea ohrussa Say.
Fluminicola fusca Hald..
PlanorbistrivolvisbinneyiTryon.
Amnicola limosa Say.
Planorhis parvus Say.
Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Physa lordi Baird.
P. t. binneyi here attains large size the largest one measured having a diameter of 36 mm. and all specimens collected have the characteristic straplike whorls and strong sculpture of this form but the aperture is considerably expanded and not quite typical.
Judged by Baird's description and Binney's figures the Physa from this station appears to be true P. lordi.
Material from the Douglas Lake district Michigan referred by some conchologists to lordi by others to P. ancillaria parkeri differs markedly from the Utah Lake form and Binney's figures in its tabulate form which is due to the decidedly flat upper surface of the last whorl and the much more acute angulation of the shoulder.
The same is true of material from Chelsea Quebec though the difference in that case is not so '3 8th Ann.
Rept.
Hayden's U. S. Geol.
and Geog.
Surv.
Terr. for 1874 pp.
391 406.
 Pilsbry Catalogue of Amnicolidse of the Western United States The Nautilus XII pp.
122123 1899. marked or uniform.
Valvata h. californica here is less highly polished and more loosely coiled than at Sta.
78 Bear Lake.
Sta.
125 creek and sloughs south of Provo from one to two miles north of Springville.
Succinea haydeni W. G. B. Lymncea humilis modicel a Say.
Paludestrina longinqua Gld..
Planorbis trivolvis near hinneyi Fluminicola fusca Hald..
Tryon.
Valvata humeralis californica Pils.
Planorbis parvus Say.
Lymncea proxima Lea.
Physa crandalli Baker 
Lymncea stagnalis appressa Say.
The Planorbis cf.
hinneyi here is much smaller than at Sta.
127 the largest measuring only 20.5 mm.
in diameter some as strongly sculptured but the whorls not so straplike some with the nearly circular aperture of horfiii Tryon.
Yarrow records Physa eUiptica Lea from Provo Rush Lake and Virgin River Utah.
To what species his records should be referred we do not know.
 CrandalP confines P. eUiptica to the region east of the Mississippi.
Sta.
126 gulch a mile and a half northeast of Springville.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 a few dead shells found no live examples obtained.
Oquirrh Mountains Utah.
We spent one rainy day at Bingham.
Such investigation as we were able to make in the rain led to the conclusion that it is not good snail territory though doubtless more extensive and persistent search would result in some finds.
Sta.
116 rock slides and ledges chiefly limestone south and southeast of Garfield on the ancient lake terraces at the northern end of the range.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.

 plentiful in rock slides but several hours of digging deep into the slides and under the new growth of shrubs failed to produce a single live snail.
The dead shells were weathered and scorched the periostracum and embryonic sculpture destroyed so we do not feel confident of their identity.
Sta.
117 gravel pit on one of the lake terraces north of the west edge of Garfield.
This pit yielded fossil freshwater shells of species living now in the region and added nothing to the fossils recorded from the region by Call.
Sta.
118 sloughs between the west end of Garfield and the main line of the railroad.
35 Wheeler's U. S. Geog.
Surv.
W. of 100th Meridian V p. 937.
3fi The Nautilus XV pp.
5455 1901.
Lymncea iraskii Tryon.
Physa sp.
Planorbis parvus Say.
 Call records Paludestrina longinqua Gld.
from Lake Point a short distance west of Garfield and Pilsbry records Amnicola Cincinnatia cincinnatiensis Anth.
from the same place as well as from Salt Lake and the Sevier Lake Valley.
Sta.
14 southeast of Black Rock in a small ravine above the lowest prominent limestone ledge and below the second one.
Sta.
119 down the slope from Sta.
14 below the lower ledge.
Sta.
15 gulch southeast of the railroad flag station of Morris perhaps four or five miles south of Sta.
14.
Sta.
123 south side of a ravine about half a mile north of Sta.
15.
Sta.
122 next gulch north of Sta.
123.
Sta.
121 west slope of mountain and next gulch north of Sta.
122 almost connecting with Sta.
120.
Sta.
120 gulch and divide north of Sta.
121.
Oreohelixhaydeni oquirrhensis Hemph..
Patula strigosa var.
oquirrhensis Hemphill Binnev's 2d Suppl.
to 5th vol.
of Terr.
Moll.
U. S. pp.
30 3i PI.
II fig.
12.
Patula strigosa var.
gabbiana Hemphill Binney's 2d Suppl.
to 5th vol.
Terr.
Moll. pp.
30 34 PL II fig.
9.
Patula strigosa var.
utahensis Hemphill Binney's 2d Suppl.
to oth vol.
of Terr.
Moll.
Further collections in the Ocuirrh Mountains and a careful study of the material obtained by us as well as a study of Hemphill's material convinces us that the forms above mentioned cannot be considered distinct subspecies though the names maj be useful as descriptive terms by which to designate the different phases.
Tjical oquirrhensis is a robust shell with strong revolving ribs.
The form gabbiana is less robust with less pronounced and sometimes almost obsolete ribs.
The form utahensis as distributed by Hemphill is smoother than gabbiana with a less pronounced keel.
Though the extremes are so very different complete intergradation is found within a short distance and in each gulch there is a considerable difference in shape size and sculpture.
In our former report we referred a few shells obtained at Sta.
14 to gabbiana.
We revisited this station and Sta.
119 a few rods below 14 and found dead shells rather common in small rock slides but a thorough search of the slides and the scant shrubbery brought to light no live examples.
This material seems referable to the form utahensis of which these U. S. Geol.
Surv. Bull.
11 p. 20.
38 The Nautilus XII p. 122 1889. stations are possibly the type locality described as a ' detached pile of rocks ''at the foot of the mountain.
It has seemed almost hopeless to recognize utaliensis.
Pilsbry has discussed the confusion in which he found the descriptions and figures of this form.
Hemphill's description in a letter to Binney was quite inadequate as follows  This has the form of hemphiUi but is destitute of the revolving ridges of haydeni.
The specimens were all constant in sculpturing but varied very much in size and somewhat in form.
Binney published the letter and on a subsequent page of the same publication says of utahensis This is a rough coarse carinated strigosa figured in Terr.
Moll. V p. 158 fig.
66.
The peristome is sometimes continuous by a heavy raised callus connecting its terminations.
It is sometimes smaller and more elevated.
As Pilsbry has pointed out the figure referred to was based upon material from Big Horn Basin Wyoming and Binney added characters belonging to the Wyoming form now known as 0. strigosa magnicornu Pils.
The connected terminations of the peristome is a common feature in a number of species of Oreohelixincluding Hemphill's forms oquirrhensis and gabbiana and hence is not of diagnostic significance.
Material we have seen from the Hemphill collection bearing the name utahensis is mostly labelled near Salt Lake but one small lot is labelled  near Logan. 
We cannot know whether any of it came from Oquirrh Mountains lut it all agrees quite well with our stations 14 and 119 material.
The exact type locality of utahensis is not known except that it is on the west side of this range and there is no more probable place than these two stations which really form but one small colony being each of small extent and but a few rods apart.
We cannot ascertain from the descriptions and figures alone with certainty just what utahensis is.
Material from Hemphill's collection does not settle it because of the absence of designated types and cotypes the uncertainty as to whether any we have seen are even topotypes and the fact that he apparently used that name for more than one form.
His hemphilli with which he compared utahensis is not true hemphilli but is the material he collected in the Oquirrh Mountains and distributed under that name which cannot be separated from his oquirrhensis from the same locality.
By referring to the descriptions and figures'' we 39 Nautilus XXIX pp.
139141 IQlf.
.Binney's 2d Suppl.
to 5th vol.
Terr.
Moll. pp.
30 34 PL II figs.
9 12. find that oquirrhensis has very strong ribs and is keeled agreeing with specimens he distributed under that name and with our material from Sta.
120 while in his gabbiana the spirals are quite weak or nearly obsolete with the periphery compressed into a distinct keel the primary spirals being usually visible to the unaided eye the secondaries visible under a lens thus agreeing in all respects with the material from our Sta.
15.
It has distinctly the two series of spirals characteristic of the haydeni group  a few ribs with intercalated riblets.
Our stations 14 and 119 specimens which we consider of the utahensis form are well angled but the periphery is not pinched into a keel.
There is perhaps a little greater variation in the altitude of the spire.
The spiral sculpture is weaker and in most examples the microscopic riblets are crowded and subequal instead of a few stronger ribs with intercalated riblets.
However in a few examples the compound spiral sculpture is distinctly present thus forming a series grading into the form gabbiana.
Viewed in mass material from stations 14 and 119 can be distinguished at once from that found at Sta.
15 and Sta.
15 material can be distinguished from that found at Sta.
120 but plenty of individuals are found to connect them all.
If anyone insists upon considering these forms sufficiently distinct in spite of complete intergradation to merit separate names then utahensis should be applied to the Sta.
14 form as it is usually destitute of the revolving ribs not of the riblets of haydeni' ' a description not at all fitting other forms from this region.
In selecting a name it would seem most natural to select the one occurring first in the original publication though all occur on the same page in Hemphill's letter to Binney.
That would be utahensis.
The same thing would result if we select the first one in Binney's notes as utahensis precedes oquirrhensis and gabbiana by one page.
We have seen the difficulty of recognizing u'ohensis while oquirrhensis is well figured and sufficiently described.
The confused description and figure do not satisfy the priority rule requiring a name to be accompanied by a description in order to be accepted.
Part of the description flatly contradicts the Hemphill specimens which would otherwise perhaps enable us to definitely decide what the name applied to.
The rules of nomenclature justify the selection of the name oquirrhensis instead of utahensis under the circumstances.
Especially is this course justified by Art.
28 of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature which provides that if the names are of the same date that selected by the first reviser shall stand and recommendation b that a specific name accompanied by both description and figure stands in preference to one accompanied only by a diagnosis or only by a figure the figure of utahensis in the present case being either spurious or doubtful.
The page precedence recommendation c only applies when other things are equal.
The name utahensis should be dropped and gabbiana used if at all only as a ''form name not in a subspecific sense.
We revisited Sta.
15 and found one live example of the gabbiana form so it is possible that the colony may survive the destructive fire of 1915 as a new growth of scrub oak is starting and will soon furnish fair cover.
Starting at Sta.
120 we found old bleached shells of Oreohelixhaydeni oquirrhensis Hemph.
 robust and strongly ribbed spirally though the ribbing is somewhat variable.
The ribs below the sharply keeled periphery vary from four to seven and are usually somewhat unequal in prominence or spacing or both.
Above the keel there are usually four ribs sometimes only three.
These shells are very abundant among the charred stumps of scruboak thickets which had been recently burned but were not found in the rock slides.
Persistent search up the gulch and across the low divide to the south failed to reveal a single live snail though everywhere bones were plentiful to the top of the divide.
They are all much weathered.
Our impression is that the colony may have been destroyed long ago as this portion of the range has apparently been swept by fires before and is now barren for manj miles.
Hemphill found this form abundant alive somewhere near here over thirty years ago.
We found a number of bleached shells which we doubtfully assign to Succinea oregonensis Lea.
They vary from grosvenorilike to avaralike shells.
The absence of color enhances the difficulty of specific determination.
Probably the colony of Sta.
120 crosses the divide well ip the mountain and thus connects with Sta.
121 in the next ravine where the same subspecies of Oreohelixwas found all dead shells some nearly as coarsely ribbed as at Sta.
120 though the average examples have much less conspicuous ribs usually seven or eight below occasionally only four.
At Sta.
122 on the west slope of the mountain not in the gulch but only a short distance from 121 the few examples found all dead shells are smaller slightly flatter and smoother than at Sta.
121 very near typical 0. h. gabbiana Hemph.
 but exhibiting a tendency to grade into oquirrhensis.
This neargabbiana form was found again at Sta.
123 but the shells here were somewhat larger.
Material reported from these mountains by Hemphill under the names haydeni hemphilli and oqidrrhensis is all oquirrhensis.
Repeated careful examinations by one of the present writers of such material in several Hemphill collections fail to discover any basis for or consistency in his separation of the material.
Professor T. D. A Cockerell and Dr. Paul Bartsch recentl at our request compared examples of oquirrhensis from our Sta.
120 with three examples from the type lot of haijdeni from Weber Canyon in the United States National luseum and find them quite distinct.
Professor Cockerell writes The difference in the spiral keels is constant.
In haydeni the whorls are rounded the keels subequal and the peripheral keel not distinct as in the Oquirrh Mountain specimens.
Haydeni has a distinct channel below the suture which is not present in the Oquirrh Mountain material.
Eureka Utah.
Sta.
6 north side of Godiva Blount ain in the southeast edge of the town.
In 1915 in collecting about 800 specimens of the small form of Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
at this station we obtained the type lot of 0. hemphilli eurekensis H. and D. only seven specimens all dead shells.
In 1916 we revisited the station but found no more of the eurekensis until we crossed a shallow ravine which marked the eastern boundary of our former work.
There we found the small cooperi and eurekensis about equally plentiful and obtained about 600 of the latter mostly alive.
The anatomy of eurekensis according to Pilsbry shows relationship to the southern yavapai group.
The anatomy of hemphilli is as yet unknown eurekensis being designated a subspecies of it on shell characters only.
We also found at this station Pupilla hlandi Morse common Succinea avara Say 
 a few worn specimens Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey rare.
Sta.
124 west slope of Pinyon Mountain three miles northeast of Eureka.
Oreohelixstrigosa depressa Ckll.
 a few small dead shells beneath Kunzia tridentata near limestone ledges.
We found none alive and no dead shells in the rock slides though we made a long search for them.
A box containing the same form is in Mrs. Oldroyd's Hemphill collection bearing the following label Var.
alhida corneus etc. Eureka Utah 1912.
Oiled.
The shells are a little larger than those we found.
6 March 20.
The President Samuel G. Dixon M.D. LL.D. in the Chair.
Three hundred and two persons present.
The presentation of papers for pubhcation under the following titles was reported by the Publication Committee Notes on fishes from New Jersey Pennsylvania and Maryland by Henry W. Fowler February 21 1917.
A second collection of fishes from the Panama Canal Zone by Henry W. Fowder February 21 1917.
''The Oligocene MoUusca of Santo Domingo by H. A. Pilsbry February 27 1917.
Dr. William E. Hughes made a beautifully illustrated communication on travel routes in Korea Manchuria and China.
No abstract.
Eugene A. Rau was elected a member.
William Morris Davis Ph.D. of Cambridge Mass. was elected a correspondent.
The following were ordered to be printed Mollusca OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES VIII THE BLACK RANGE NEW MEXICO.
BY H. A. PILSBRY AND J. H. FERRISS.
In the summer of 1915 beginning in the second week of August we collected in the Black Range of New Mexico.
Approaching from the west by way of the Mimbres Valley and up Gallina Canyon we reached the crest above the head of Silver Creek.
Subsequent camps were made at intervals from Sawyer Peak the southern end of the range to Reed's ranch on Black Canyon our route being along the crest trail with numerous short trips down the slopes and a twoday trip to Kingston in the eastern foothills.
After September 12th Ferriss continued the exploration alone in Morgan and Diamond Creeks on the main range then eastward to Chloride the Cuchillo Mountains and the San Mateo Mountains west of San Marcial in the southern edge of Socorro County.
Travel was by pack train.
Throughout the trip we had the services of an excellent packer Teodoro Solis a native of Chihuahua.
The Black Range is on the boundary between Grant and Sierra Counties about 40 miles north of Deming New Mexico.
In the north it forms part of the continental divide.
The Mimbres River Valley on the west isolates the Black fronl the Mogollon Range and its outliers.
The range is narrow and sharp its flanks deeply furrowed but without long spurs.
Hillsboro Peak is 10000 ft. high.
Much of the crest trail is from 8500 to slightly over 9000 ft. elevation.
Fine forest extends down nearly to the 7000foot contour.
It has been well protected against fire and its remoteness has deterred the lumberman.
The .
yellow pine spruce and quaking asp are large and the ground well covered with forest mold.
There seem to be limestone outcrops on all sides of Sawyer Peak.
The scattered exposures of these ledges were traced from the south end of the range up the west side at between 7000 and 8000 feet as far as Iron Creek at our Station 16.
Limestone was not seen on that side of the range further north on Black Canyon or Diamond Creek where it was looked for down to about 6000 feet.
On the east side limestone appears in the foothills at intervals as around Kingston and Hillsboro at Hermosa Chloride and some distance further north.
Otherwise the Black Range is of igneous or meta84 March 26 25  Ah  FireCabiVili
' 1 7iTz   Z i 3   I iGraViitd   Ifii Peaks'  V cv .
28 24 oft lN I  .
H n iT.
Jj     I xSi 7i vTrt 21 BLACK RANGE  Streams Dry cio TraZs       Ro2.ds qP ' u9 v 1 if 64 o  Mi  I A  u  It  . ft i sf i il 4Fig.
1.
 Collecting stations in the Black Range southern section.
The mapis ruled into square miles.
1917.
85 t 7 tP  I tl I f  1 ti  t  j '
..ir Fig.
2.
 Collecting stations in the Black Range northern section.
The map is ruled into square miles.
morphic rock.
Except at the southern end there is no mining in the range at present.
A good crest trail is maintained by the Forestry Service and several cabins along it are occupied by forest rangers during the dry season.
At the time we were there the range was uninhabited except for two men caring for mines in Silver Creek and several at Reed's ranch on Black Canjon.
Deer bear and wild turkeys are abundant.
There are no rattlesnakes in the forest zone though occasionally seen up to about 6000 feet.
Eastern Foothills of the Black Range.
 Returning to Deming from Chloride the limestone ridges about Chloride were found barren of shells although they had been seen there by miners at an earlier day.
At the Oliver Mine on Mineral Creek 4 miles above Chloride Oreohelixpilsbryi was found.
A few miles southward on the north side of a limestone mountain at Sam's Canyon Holospira cockerelli was abundant and a few very old  bones  of Oreohelixmetcalfei and cooperi were found.
Again in a like situation on the Little Palomas Creek Holospira was plentiful and again at Hermosa.
This is a small village on the Big Palomas Creek all that remains of a settlement of over 2000 miners in flush times.
Teodoro had seen shells here years ago when employed as superintendent at the Ocean Wave Mine but not even bones remain.
Across the stream however and down stream for a mile or more Oreohelixand Holospira were abundant.
Hard digging was required to get living shells as the hillside of fine soil and limestone spawls had been completely plowed up by herds of goats.
The snails found shelter under the roots of dead oaks and in undisturbed rock.
In the foothill region there was extensive mining years ago with consequent destruction of the small wood which grew in favorable places.
Although a sharp lookout was kept nothing further was found on the return trip except a colony of Ashmunella in a slide of igneous rock along the wagon road near the mouth of a small creek trilutary to Las Animas River.
All were dead except a few very young onesNo topographic map has been published.
Our collecting stations are therefore plotted pp.
84 and 85 on the Forest Service Temporary Base Map of the Gila National Forest. A list of the stations is given at the end of this article.
 Second edition corrected to January 1 1916.
1917. j natural sciences of philadelphia.
87 The Cuchillo Range.
This range is about six miles east of Chloride the post office of Fairview at the foot of the mountains.
The peaks probably reach up to 7500 feet.
On a brushy northern slope on the Thomas Scale trail in the southern end of the range Oreohelixmetcalfei cuchiUeusis and Holospira cockereUi were found in abundance.
The cover was scant and cattle plentiful.
Both species were found again a couple of miles further on in Frank Calhoun's pasture.
In both places they lived in groves of oak under limestone spawls and dead timber.
At the north end of the range the peaks are higher some having large outcrops of fossiliferous limestone but the only evidences of living shells obtained were a few bones of Helicodiscus.
In drift debris however were many small shells which apparently graze on the grassy slopes and meadows.
The San Mateo Range.
The San Mateo Range probably reaches a height of 8000 feet.
The southern end is about 15 miles north of Monticello Post Office a village on the Canada Alamosa.
The rock in this part of the range is a friable crumbling granite.
Nearly the entire southern end is a continuous slope of granitic fragments many feet in depth.
The mesa continues nearl to Monticello.
Pinyon juniper and lowgrowing shrubs cover the hillsides.
Along Chippy Creek walnut quaking asp and yellow pine prevail.
Around the edges of the rocky slides Oreohelixcooperi and Ashmunella were fairly abundant but the smaller shells were scarce.
A day given to the peaks overlooking San Marcial a couple of miles farther added only a few 0. cooperi to the collection.
Characteristics of the Black Range Mollusk Fauna.
The snail fauna of the Black Range is like that of the Iogollon Range in the rich development of Ashmunella the species being also related.
Coarsely granulate species are a unique feature.
It differs from the ranges southward and westward by the absence of SonoreUa.
A special feature of the range is the Oreohelixmetcalfei group wonderfully varied in shape and sculpture.
No doubt further members of this group will be found in Sierra and Socorro Counties.
Oreohelixswopei also is special to the northern end of the Black Range so far as we know.
The crest of the range everywhere has an abundant Canadian zone fauna of small shells Vertigo Pupilla Vitrina Thysaiophora ingersolli etc. in common with similar elevations as far west as the Santa Catalinas in Arizona.
Also the Canadian Oreohelixcooperi.
List of Species.
The specimens have been studied by both authors.
Types are in coll.
A. N. S.
Phila.
 paratypes in coll.
Ferriss.
HELICID.
ASHMUNELLA.
The Black Range Ashmunellas resemble those of the Mogollon and Chiricahua Ranges in the genitalia.
The penis is more or less distinctly bipartite by a submedian constriction.
In A. binneyi A. tetrodon and in A. mogollonensis of the Mogollon Range a retractor muscle of a few slender strands attaches to both segments of the penis and to the epiphallus further up but there is no continuation attaching to the diaphragm.
In A. mendax and A. cockereUi with its subspecies there is in addition to the incoherent penial retractor just described a broad very thin and extremely short band connecting the epiphallus with the diaphragm.
This is similar to the condition in most other Ashmunellas except that the connection with the diaphragm is here very short.
All of the species have the usual short flagellum about 1.5 mm.
long.
The constancy in Ashmunella of this minute seemingly vestigeal organ is remarkable.
Aside from the particulars noted above the organs are much alike in the several species.
For convenient comparison the measurements in millimeters are given in one table .4. mogollonensis being added for comparison.
Ashmunella tetrodon Pils.
and Ferr.
Ashmmella tetrodon P.  F. Xautilus XXIX June 1915 p. 15 PL 1 figs.
l3a.
Southern slope of the San Mateo Mountains Socorro County New Mexico.
This species was described from the western slope of the Mogollon Mountains and its occurrence in the San Mateo Range appears anomalous.
The numerous specimens obtained are quite constant showing none of the variations noted in the INIogollons.
The genitalia of one of these specimens are figured PI.
X fig.
6.
1917.
89 ol1 e3 1  Mb 3 a 3 c S 3 cj g o CO c  o 2S S c a fe J   C  c  0 r'  'x  C X   'A .  ' M o X b.   iX b3   5 g1 1  S   A. mogollonensis 53 3 7.5 42 None Fig.
3 a 58 56 6 5 9 52 40 None Short A. mendax Sta.
2 16.5 Fi2.
1 ' Sta.
32 .4 4 o 6 5 63 Short 19  Sta.
16 61 6.5 8.5 42 Short 20  Sta.
26 ... 35 42 353.5 Short None None 17 A. hinneyi Sta.
15  Sta.
13 .
25 22 4.5 6.5 15.5 '' Sta.
7 42 4.5 34.5 None 1516 Fig.
5 4.. cockereUi Sta.
20 45 5.5 5 35 Short 17 Fig.
2 A. c. perobtusa Sta.
21 40 5.5 5 23 Short 16.7 Fig.
4 A. tetrodoH S. Mateo 28 4 5 23 None 13.5  Fig.
6 4.. t. animorum Sta.
26 37 4 6 31 None 14 Ashmunella tetrodon fragilis n. subsp.
PI.
VII figs.
116.
The shell is markedly thinner than .4. tetrodon and subangular peripherally the periphery situated high.
Basal teeth small and well separated.
Parietal tooth .smaller than in A. tetrodon.
There is no denticle between its inner end and the upper termination of the lip.
Alt.
6.5 diam.
14 mm.
 5 whorls.
No.
115753 A. N. S. P. One colony was found.
Station 58 in slides on south side of Cave Creek near its mouth and an equal distance from where the wagon road starts up a longgrade hillside on the trail from Chloride to Hillsboro.
in the eastern foothills of the Black Range.
Ashmunella tetrodon animorum n. subsp.
PI.
VII figs.
226. '
The shell resembles A. tetrodon but differs by having the Ijasal teeth much closer together and united ba callus.
The parietal tooth is simple the outer liptooth is long.
Color light buff with a slightly brownish tinge above.
Under a strong lens some imperfect granulation is produced by the interruption and irregularity of the groih striae on the penult whorl.
There is also an extremely minute spiral striation on the later whorls.
Alt.
7 diam.
15 mm.
 oj whorls type No.
115717. 
5.4.
 12  Station .36.
Black Range from Station 26 Holden's Spring type loc northward to Black Canyon Reed's and Morgan Creek.
Taken at 15 stations.
This is a common shell at high elevations in the mountains north of Hillsboro Peak.
Especially in the labyrinth of canyons forming the heads of Las Animas Canyon but also on the western slope of the range.
Most of the stations are between 8000 and 9000 feet.
It was found mainly under dead wood on shady and rather humid slopes.
Very often the inner of the two basal teeth is wanting being reduced to a sloping callus against the other tooth.
Ashmunella cockerelli n. sp.
PI.
VII figs.
3 49.
The shell is umbilicate umbilicus between onefifth and onesixth the total diameter enlarging in the last half whorl rather tubular further in depressed carinate at the periphery the shape recalling Polygyra corolinensis and obstricta woodbrown above usually somewhat paler at the base having a buff streak indicating a former resting stage about the middle of the last whorl.
Surface lusterless except the earliest whorls.
Sculpture of closeset irregular pebblelike granules on the last whorl finer on the whorl preceding before which it is finely striate and slightly punctate the first Ih whorls smooth and glossy.
The inner whorls are convex the penult whorl flattened the last somewhat convex above but excavated on both sides of the strong peripheral keel.
It is rather swollen below the keel particularly in the last half.
It descends shortly in front and is guttered behind the outer and lasal margins of the lip.
The aperture is very oblique subcircular and toothless.
Lip is reflected and somewhat thickened within.
Alt.
8.2 diam.
16.4 mm.
 5 whorls type figs.
3 9. 
7.2  17.8  South of Sawyer's Peak on slopes of the ravine at Grand Central Mine Station 20 and in the next two ravines on the trail to the peak stations 19 and 22.
Also further north at Station 12 a short distance above Spade's cabin.
This species which it gives us pleasure to name for Professor T. D. A. Cockerell is remarkable for its strong carina and roughly pebbly sculpture which is coarsest on the latter part of the whorl.
The upper surface is usually convex but often nearly flat.
The periphery of the penult whorl frequently projects a little above the suture in the individuals with flattened spire.
Ashmunella cockerelli perobtusa n. subsp.
Pi.
VII figs.
7 la.
The shell is sharply angular in the young and on the front of the last whorl ut becomes rounded and rather swollen in the last third.
The granulation is minute as in the following race and in places the granules are linked into spiral lines.
Alt.
7.8 diam.
16 mm.
 b whorls.
Locality Station 21 a ravine about two miles to the left of the trail going down from the camp site on Sawyer Peak to the Grand Central Mine and at a somewhat higher level than the mine.
Type No.
115750 A. N. S. P. paratypes in Ferriss coll.
As one of the authors was lost when he found this colony its exact location cannot be made perfectly clear' yet by turning along a trail which branches to the left before the steep descent into the second ravine from the Grand Central Mine the snail hunter must get into the vicinity of the perobtusa colony.
It is in a ravine on the left side of said trail.
Ashmunella cockerelli argenticola n. subsp.
PI.
VII fig.
5.
This form differs from A. cockerelli by the far smoother surface the granulation being very fine and on the base the granules are connected into spiral threads closely placed and not visible over the whole base.
The keel is strong and continues to the lip thereby differing from A. c. perobtusa.
Alt.
7.4 diam.
16 mm.
type.
Upper Silver Creek and its branches above 7500 feet to the northern flank of Sawyer Peak about 500 feet below the summit.
It was taken at stations 3 4 6 and 9 on Silver Creek 10 and 10 on a tributary from the north which enters at Mitchell Gray's cabin 11 gulch south of Gray's cabin and 17 near the summit of Sawyer Peak.
The type locality is Silver Creek just below the box where the trail makes a detour on the steep northern slope.
This is probably between 8000 and 8500 feet Gray's cabin being at 7500 feet.
In the type locality.
Station 4 the diameter is 15 to 16 mm. and the keel projects but little or not at all above the suture.
Some lots vary more.
At Station 11 the diameter is from 13.7 to 16 mm. and the keel of the penult whorl often projects.
In some lots there are coarse conspicuous wrinkles of growth as at Station 10.
The spire varies in convexity in all lots and is often almost flat.
Ashmunella binneyi n. sp.
PI.
VII fig.
8.
The shell is depressed with low but convex spire and angular periphery isabella color above paler below.
Sculpture of very minute interrupted somewhat anastomosing striae along growthlines some weak traces of spiral lines on the base.
Whorls slowly widening convex the last angular or subangular in front descending a little to the aperture.
Umbilicus widening rapidly in the last whorl onefifth the total diameter.
Aperture toothless rounded lunate the peristome white evenly and rather narrowly reflected throughout.
Alt.
7 diam.
15.5 mm.
 5 whorls.
Type Station 8.
Diam.
13.5 to 16.7 mm Station 15.
Black Range at stations 7 and 8 on Silver Creek above the ''box 13 head of Bull Top Creek and 15 Spring Creek a tributary of Iron Creek.
The type locality Station 8 is near the deserted cabin just above the box of Silver Creek at an elevation of about 8500 feet.
This species differs from A. mendax by the angularity and the microscopic sculpture of the last whorl.
Also by the absence of any penial retractor muscle attached to the diaphragm.
It is far smoother than any form of A. cockereV.i and not carinate.
It is certainly far less widely spread than A. mendax.
We found it onh' in an area of a couple of miles along the western flank of the range from Upper Silver Creek to Upper Spring Creek well within the heavily forested zone.
No doubt it will be found over a somewhat wider area yet its absence in our many stations both north and south indicate that it is a relatively local species.
Ashmunella mendax nsp.
PL VII figs.
6 6a 66.
The shell resembles A. mogollonensis but is less robust with different microscopic sculpture lighter colored being between tawnyolive and saccardo umber often with a lighter streak from a former resting period.
The third and fourth whorls have minute growthwrinkles interrupted to form oblong granules in places and an excessively minute spiral striation.
On the last whorl the growthwrinkles are low unequal and continuous and there are many weakly impressed spiral lines.
Last whorl descends slightl' in front.
The aperture is small toothless lip white narrowly reflected.
The umbilicus is cylindric within but in the last whorl opens out to more than twice its former diameter.
Alt.
9.3 diam.
20 width of umbilicus 5.2 mm.
 5 whorls.
Black Range at the following stations 2 Gallina Canyon 4 miles above Pryor's upper cabin.
Sawyer Peak at stations 18 northeast and 23 east of camp on the saddle about 20 minutes' walk down the mountain.
Stations 16 Iron Creek above confluence of Spring Creek and 16 around Wright's cabin near the head of the creek.
Station 26 Holden's Spring at one of the heads of Holden's Prong of Animas Canyon.
Station 28 southwest side of Hillsboro Peak.
Station 27 west of Animas ranger cabin and Station 30 about 3 miles west down the mountain.
Station 49 Black Canyon above Diamond Bar ranch house on the western slope of the range.
Station 32 garden of Stephen Reay west end of Kingston.
Type locality Station 16.
The shell while superficially very like A. mogoUoiiensis is easily distinguished by the somewhat granose intermediate whorls and far less deeply engraved last whorl.
In A. mogollonensis there is no granulation and the last whorl is very deeply and closely engraved spirally PI.
VII fig.
10.
In the genitalia the presence of a very short broad penial retractor attached to the diaphragm distinguishes mendax PI.
X fig.
1 from mogollonensis PI.
X fig.
3 in which there is none.
This snail has a remarkable range.
The lowest colonies on both sides are far below the forest especially on the west side where it was found in great numbers in the arid Gallina Canyon.
The examples here are rather small diam.
16 to 17.3 mm.
On the east side we took it under wood and rubbish in a garden of Kingston where it was common.
Most of the other localities are along the crest of the range in the humid forest zone.
The type locality is on the south side of Iron Creek some distance above the mouth of Spring Creek at the entrance of a ravine from the south where there has been rather extensive mine prospecting.
A figure of the genitalia of A. mogollonensis P.  F. is given for comparison PI.
X fig.
3.
OREOHELIX.
Three of the four species belong to the southern group of species having swollen penes.
The fourth 0. cooperi is here at the southern border of its vast range.
Most of the specimens taken between the middle of August and the middle of October contained embryos.
A few collected in the latter part of October contained none.
Oreolielix swopei n. sp.
PI.
IX figs.
2 336.
The shell resembles 0. strigosa depressa.
It has an ample umbilicus a low conic spire obtuse and rounded at the summit and a slightly angular periphery.
Color fawn or vinaceous fawn with two chocolate or lighter bands in the usual positions and finely irregularly speckled and streaked with creamy markings partly the result of wear.
The surface is glossy where unworn marked with irregular growthlines and fine wrinkles which form sharp little folds just above the suture on some of the intermediate whorls.
No spiral striation.
The embryonic shell of 2 flat whorls shows growth94 March lines and faint traces of microscopic spirals and on its last third there are usually several small spiral threads.
The young stages have an acutely angular periphery which becomes bluntly angular on the last whorl which descends very little in front.
The aperture is strongly oblique.
Alt.
12 diam.
21 mm.
type. ''
12  22   13.2  20  Black Range at stations 44 45 and 48 head of Morgan Creek 42 Black Canyon 4 miles below Reed's ranch 50 and 51 on Diamond Creek about 3 miles below the summit and again about half way clown.
Fig.
.3.
 Reproductive organs of Oreohelixswopei.
b the penis opened showing fleshy organs in the swollen portion c the penis and epiphallus stretched straight.
This snail is named in honor of Dr. S. D. Swope of Deming New Mexico in acknowledgment of his interest in scientific matters and his kindly help in furthering our investigation.
That we visited the Black Range at all was due to his alluring picture of its beauties.
In the field this shell was taken for 0. s. depressa.
It was found among rocks on the wellshaded slopes of ravines usually with 0. cooperi and Ashmunella.
The absence of spiral striation on the last whorl aroused suspicion of the reference to 0. s. depressa and on closer study it was found to differ by the far smoother embryonic shell and especially by the soft anatomy the male organs being quite different in the two species.
In 0. s. depressa the lower part of the penis is not swollen and its cavity contains four or five subequal longitudinal ridges.
These structures have been found constant in a great many specimens dissected from Utah Colorado Arizona and New Mexico.
'In 0. swopei the lower part of the penis is conspicuously swollen its cavity containing several large irregular fleshy processes fig.
36 below which there are many small longitudinal cords fig.
3.
The organs measure Length of penis 22 mm. 
swollen portion of penis 8.5   of epiphallus 4.5  of penial retractor 7  of vagina 6.5  of spermatheca and duct 21 Diameter of shell 21 0. concentrata differs by its far shorter penis.
In the specimen dissected taken about September 15 there were eight embryos PI.
IX fig.
13 the largest 4.2 mm.
diameter.
The base shows many smooth spiral lines and bands cutting through densely crowded crinkled radial striae.
When these are worn oE it appears almost smooth the apparently strong spiral sculpture shown in the figures being cuticular.
Afew beautiful albino shells were found in one rock pile in Station 45.
Oreohelixmetcalfei Ckll.
PI.
VIII fig.
5.
Oreohelixslrigosa metcalfei Ckll. Nautilus XVIII 190.5. p. 113.
Pilsbrj Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 190.5 p. 27S PI.
25 figs.
44 48 52.
This species was described from shells collected by Mr. O.
B. Metcalfe near Kingston the exact spot not designated.
We hunted one day around Kingston but did not find it.
The country near the town is rather discouraging  steep stony hills with prac tically no shade though there is abundant limestone.
Probably we did not go far enough afield.
We suspect that the colony was either nearer the mountains or northward probably not in the immediate vicinity of the town.
Three very old bones were found by one of us in Sam's Canyon Station 53 some miles south of Chloride.
These occurred with Holospira like the original lot.
It appears that the 0. metcalfei group in Grant Sierra and Socorro Counties comprises a series of forms largely parallel to the 0. haydeni series in Utah and Colorado but even more remarkable in its extremes of form and sculpture.
2 See these Proceedings for 1905 p. 272.
PL 19 fig.
3 1916 p. 345 PI.
19 figs.
14 6 7 PI.
20 fig.
8.
96 March On the west slope of the Black Range there are two forms 1 in the south 0. m. concentrica broadly umbilicate with low wide spiral cords on the base and 2 further north 0. m. radiata with strong radial sculpture remarkably like 0. eirodi.
On the eastern slope we have 3 southward 0. m. acutidiscus broadly umbilicate with fine spiral and coarser radial sculpture and 4 further north 0. hermosensis nearly smooth angular only in front.
Still further north a few bones of typical metcalfei were found acutely keeled throughout and nearly smooth.
Northeast of here was found 0. m. cuchillensis which is so weakly angular that we at first thought it a form of 0. strigosa depressa.
Further west 0. pilshryi was found.
Further north in Socorra County there is 0. socorroensis an angular roughly sculptured shell as yet known only by perfectly bleached bones.
The metcalfei group therefore comprises besides the original type forms resembling 0. haydetii 0. eirodi and 0. strigosa depressa each being alone in its district.
The distribution may be represented diagrammatically thus  pilsbryi i cuchillensis   metcalfei if hermosensis radinta ir concentrica ir if acutidiscus Diagram to show localities of the races of Oreohelixmetcaljei relative to one another and to the crest of the Black Range from Sawyer to Diamond Peak.
Scale about 16 miles to an inch.
Oreohelixmetcalfei concentrica n. subsp.
PI.
VIII figs.
1ld.
The shell is much more broadly and openly miibilicate than 0. tnetcalfei cartridge buff inconspicuously mottled with gray or light drab the embryonic whorls pinkish cinnamon and the peripheral keel bordered below with a bro'n band.
Sculpture of about five extremely low spiral cords on the base and usually traces of two or three above their intervals finely and sharply striate spirally and there are very fine irregular striae along growthlines sharp where they pass over the keel and spiral cords elsewhere weak.
The last whorl does not descend in front.
Alt.
9.3 diam.
21.5 mm.
 4 whorls.
Silver Creek above 7500 feet at stations 3 4 7 and 11 on limestone outcrops.
Type No.
115755 A. N. S. P. from Station 7 above the box of Silver Creek on the north side.
In most specimens the intervals between the cords on the base are dull brown or when concolored the spiral striae make them appear darker giving an appearance of relief to the cords.
A few individuals from Station 11 a branch ravine of Silver Creek south of Gray's cabin have the base blackish chocolate.
Specimens with the spiral cords on the base less conspicuous and the color usually darker  clouded and banded with dull walnut brown in varying degree  were found at Station 20 at the Grand Central Mine Station 19 the next gulch north of that where the mine is also Station 22 the succeeding gulch north PI.
YIII fig.
Id.
At Station 17 on the west side of Sawyer Peak about 500 feet below the summit similar shells were found varying from nearly typical color to broadly banded below with chocolate the spiral cords therefore inconspicuous.
Genitalia as in 0. m. radiata.
The embryonic shell PI.
IX fig.
10 is very beautiful.
The first whorl is smooth cuticular laminae along growthlines then appearing gradually.
From these triangular processes rise forming 3 or 4 spiral series above usually 4 below a peripheral series of larger processes.
The embryos of radiata acididiscus and hermosensis are identical with those of concentrica.
Oreohelixmetcalfei radiata nsubsp.
PI.
VIII figs.
2 2a 33c 6 6o.
The shell is more openly umbilicate than 0. metcalfei with irregular sculpture of strong wrinkles in the direction of growthlines the lens showing fine spiral striae between the wrinkles of the lower surface very few on the upper surface.
Faint traces of a few coarse spirals 7 on the base may be discerned in most examples.
The last whorl usually does not descend in front but in some exceptional specimens it descends.
The typical color is cartridgebuff with some creambuff clouding above the early whorls being light pinkish cinnamon but it varies some shells having a bister band below the periphery or this may be widened suffusing much of the base figs.
6 6a with also a cinnamon line on the upper surface.
In a few examples all of the base except within the umbilicus is between chocolate and black the upper surface being brownish.
Alt.
9 d am.
19.4 mm.
Limestone outcrops on Iron Creek Station 16 some distance above the confluence of Spring Creek and on Spring Creek Station 15 type loc.
The Iron Creek specimens are nearly all of the pale typical color.
The genitalia of a specimen from Station 15 the type locality were figured sub nom.
0. metcalfei in Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1916 p. 352 PI.
XXII fig.
10.
Embryonic shell PI.
IX fig.
11 as in 0. m. concentrica.
Oreohelixmetcalfei acutidiscus n. subsp.
PI.
VIII figs.
4 4a.
Broadly umbilicate like 0. m. concentrica from which this race differs by having stronger growthwrinkles though much less coarse than in 0. m. radiata and in place of the spiral cords of concentrica there are slightly enlarged striae the whole base being finely striate spirally between the riblets.
It is mottled and clouded profusely above and below with walnut brown.
The keel is very acute.
Alt.
10.4 diam.
22.4 mm.
 5 whorls.
Station 23 about 1000 feet below the summit of Sawyer Peak east of and below the camp site on the saddle on a small outcrop of limestone.
In another place down the mountain southeast from camp Station 18 we found a colony differing by being cartridge buff a few with a band below the periphery.
Both of the localities are on the opposite side of the mountain from the known localities of 0. m. radiata.
The embryonic shells are like those of radiata and concentrica.
Oreohelixmetcalfei hermosensis n. subsp.
PI.
IX figs.
4 4o 46.
The shell is solid cartridge buff with a narrow chocolate band below the periphery and some indistinct pinkish cinnamon mottling especially above.
The surface is nearly smooth having light irregular growthlines and no spiral striae.
The last whorl descends in front.
It is strongly angular in front of the aperture the angle becoming weak on the last half.
The umbilicus about as in metcalfei.
1917.
99 Alt.
12.3 diam.
21.4 mm.
 5 whorls.
Stations 55 and 56 near Hermosa Sierra County New Mexico.
This subspecies resembles 0. metcaljei in color and the smooth surface but differs by wanting the strong keel of the last whorl.
Genitalia are substantially as in 0. m. radiata.
The penis is figured fig.
4fl and opened fig.
46.
The lower portion has several very irregular and unequal fleshy ridges within upper portion papillose.
Length of penis 13 mm. of its thickened lower part 5 mm.
 length of epiphallus 3.5 mm.
 of penial retractor 6 mm.
Diameter of the shell 20.5 mm.
The embryonic shells PI.
IX fig.
12 are exactly as in the forms of metcaljei from the Black Range.
In the adult shell the embryo photographs abnormally dark on account of its yellow hue.
Fig.
4.
 Penis of Oreohelixmetcaljei hennosensis.
a exferior b the same opened.
Oreohelixmetcalfei cuchillensis n. subsp.
PI.
IX figs.
l. la 16.
This form is smaller than hermosensis and the peripheral angle in front of the aperture is weaker scarcely noticeable.
Typically there are very minute and superficial spiral striae but on many specimens these cannot be made out.
The last whorl descends little or not at all in front.
There is about a half whorl less.
Alt.
9 diam.
18.2 mm.
 4f whorls.
Cuchillo Mountains Sierra County at two stations about two miles apart at the southern end of the range.
We have hesitated between uniting this with 0. m. hermosensis and giving it separate standing.
The sizes intergrade in a small number of specimens cuchillensis varying from 15.4 to 20 mm.
diameter yet where this is the case the specimens are readily separable by other characters.
Except for one specimen of 20 mm.
diam. none of the lot of over 200 specimens exceeds 19 mm.
diameter.
The genitalia are substantially similar to 0. m. hermosensis except for the smaller size.
Length of penis 7 of its internally thickened lower portion 4 mm.
 of epiphallus 3 mm.
 of penial retractor 6.5 mm.
 cliam.
shell about 17.5 mm.
No.
112917 A. N. S. P. No embryos were found in a few specimens preserved in spirit taken in October.
Oreohelixpilsbryi Ferriss.
PI.
VIII figs.
7 7c.
Oreohelixpilsbryi Ferriss Nautilus XXX January 1917 p. 102.
While closely related to 0. metcalfei this form appears to be sufficiently distinct for specific rank.
It is most like 0. m. concentrica but differs by the narrow strongly raised spiral lirse and the smaller umbilicus.
It is also relatively higher resembling some forms of 0. haydeni from the Oquirrh Range in Utah.
There are usually four spirals on the base two on the upper surface.
The embryonic whorls of adults and the genitalia figured in Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1916 PI.
XXII fig.
8 are substantially as in 0. vietcalfei radiata and the other forms of that species.
Embryos were not found in the uterus in the few specimens preserved in spirit.
It was found only near the Oliver Mine on Mineral Creek about 6 miles from Chloride Sierra County.
Several hundred living examples were obtained.
See Nautilus XXX p. 102.
Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B.
PL IX fig..
.59.
This region which forms the southern border of the vast area of cooperi has a capacious form of the species.
Many examples are typical in coloring figs.
7 9 but pale shells with faint bands or none are abundant especially on Silver Creek figs.
6 8 8a.
Occasionally throughout the range specimens were found with very broad almost black bands figs.
5 5a.
These color forms are to be found together throughout the forest zone of the range.
Thus figs.
57 Station 9 and 8 8a Station 4 are from Silver Creek fig.
9 from Holden's Spring Station 26.
The extremes of elevation of the spire may also be found in single colonies.
The shape aiid color mutations or forms are spread throughout the range though particular colorforms are often prevalent at one or another station.
The specimens figured measure as follows Figs.
5 5a alt.
14 diam.
20 mm.
Fig.
6  13  20  Fig.
7  15.6  20.6 Figs.
8 8a  16.7  22  Fig.
9 '' 14.3  20.5 X  1917.
101 Localities in the Black Range and environs are given below.
It is not confined to limestone exposures but is quite sparsely scattered on shaded hillsides throughout the forested zone of the range from Saw'er Peak northward.
Sawyer Peak Station 17 west side of the north peak near the summit.
Silver Creek at stations 3 4 6 7 9 Bull Top Creek Station 13.
Spring Creek Station 15 Iron Creek stations 16 and 16 Wright's cabin.
Between Iron Creek and Hillsboro Peak.
Heads of Animas Canyon at Holden's Spring Station 26 and at stations 29 30 32 33 northward.
Near AIcKnight's cabin Station 36 stations 38 39 40 the last 8 miles north.
Black Canyon region at stations 41 42.
Morgan Canyon stations 44 45 48.
Diamond Creek Station 50 about halfway down the mountain on the west side.
East of the Black Range it was taken at  Sam's Canyon about 6 miles south of Chloride dead only.
San Mateo Mountains everywhere on the south side abundant.
Specimens from Holden's Spring Station 26 were dissected last year.
See Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1916 p. 351.
Two more have been opened giving the following measurements of the genitalia Fig.
5.
 Reproductive organs of Oreohelixcooperi from Holden's Spring Black Range with detail of the penis opened at upper end of the internally ribbed portion.
No.
115156.
Silver Creek.
Station 4.
Length of penis 21 mm. 
 internallv ribbed part 11   epiphalliis 4.5    penial retractor muscle 10  Diameter of the shell 22 No.
112920.
San Mateo Mountains.
13.5 mm.
8 5 7 The lower part of the penis contains two or three fleshy ridges the upper ends of which project a Uttle into the cavity of the thinwalled portion.
Thysanopliora ingersolli Bid.
Common throughout the humid forested zone especially among aspens.
Taken at 16 stations from Sawyer Peak to Black Canyon.
Thysanopliora hornii Gabb.
 Not found in the Black Range.
A few were taken in the Cuchillo Alountains.
UROCOPTID..
Holospira cockerelli Dall.
Holospira cockerelli Dall Nautilus XI October 1897 p. 62.
Pilsbry Proc A. N. S. P. 1905 p. 218 PL 26 fig.
6.
Sam's Canyon about 4 miles south of Chloride.
Cuchillo Mountains.
Big Palomas Creek near Hermosa in a mountain across stream above the fork at Ocean Wave Mine also in the next peak below.
Little Palomas Creek in a limestone mountain 2 miles north of Black Bob's ranch.
The specimens from the Little Palomas are about typical in size Length 12.5 mm. 13 whorls. 
10.5  12 The largest are from the Cuchillo Mountains on the south side of the peak where some are 16.8 mm.
long with 16 whorls.
Specimens from the other localities are intermediate in size.
All we have opened have a single short lamella low on the axis in the penult whorl.
The type was found in drift debris of the Rio Grande.
Subsequently Mr. Metcalfe found one near Kingston  probably northward near the southern localities given above.
We did not find Holospira regis Pils.
and Ckll. which was collected by Mr. Metcalfe somewhere in the Kingston district.
ENDODONTID.
Pyramidula cronkhitei Xewc.
Found everywhere 18 stations throughout the wooded zone.
Also in the Middle Percha drift below Kingston Mineral Creek near Chloride and Little Palomas Creek probably washed down from above.
Helicodiscus arizonensis P. and F. Rather sparingly found at many stations throughout the Black Range from the summit to the level of Kingston.
Also San Mateo and Cuchillo Mountains.
VITRINID.
Vitrina alaskana Dall.
From the summit of the ascent north of Wright's cabin northward to Black Canyon abundant especially near McKnight's cabin on bits of wood etc.
Not seen south of Iron Creek.
ZONITID.
Polita indentata umbilicata Ckll.
Black Range on Silver Creek head of Iron Creek Station 16 Animas Creek above the box.
Station 25 Bear Wallow Reed's ranch.
Station 43.
It is rare at the higher levels.
In dryer lower country it was taken at Station 1  Gallina Creek on Little and Big Palomas Creeks near Chloride and in the Cuchillo and San Mateo Mountains.
Zonitoides arborea Say.
Found throughout the Black Range taken at 17 stations.
Zonitoides minuscula alaohuana Dall.
Iron Creek stations 16 16 Holden's Spring drift of Percha below King.ston Oliver Mine near Chloride.
Striatura milium meridionalis P. and F. Station 28 south side of Hillsboro Peak Station 26 Holden's Spring.
Euconulus fulvus Drap..
Everywhere along the crest from Sawyer Peak to Black Canyon.
Also in drift at Station 1 Gallina Creek and below Kingston Oliver Mine near Chloride San Mateo Mountains LIMACIDJE.
Agriolimax campestris Binn..
Taken at 6 stations in the wooded zone of the Black Range.
PUPILLID.
Pupilla blandi pithodes n. subsp.
The shell is short cylindric with rounded ends chestnut brown slightly shining.
Whorls somewhat convex the last slowly ascending a little in front somewhat flattened and tapering to the rather narrow base noticeably contracted behind the lip having a quite low or sometimes rather strong crest of the same color as the rest of the shell behind the contraction.
Parietal lamella deeply placed about onethird of a whorl long.
Lower palatal plica rather long.
Columellar lamella well developed short.
Length 3.2 diam.
1.8 mm.
Black Range abundant in the forested zone chiefly among aspens.
Type locaUty Station 39 around the cattletrap and lake between McKnight's and Mimbres forester stations.
It was taken at stations 5 9 16 17 26 28 30 31 33 34 37 39 42 and 47 well scattered over the ridge and upper slopes from Sawyer Peak to Black Canyon.
Single bleached shells were taken in the drift debris of Gallina Creek at Station 1 and in the debris of Middle Percha Creek below Kingston.
These were doubtless carried down from the forest zone by freshets.
This is relatively wider and shorter than P. blandi with a far less developed crest behind the lip.
Typical P. blandi is a decidedly smaller shell.
Pupoides marginatus Say.
A bleached shell was found in drift of the Middle Percha Creek below Kingston therefore in the foothills rather than the Black Range itself.
Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella Pils..
Middle Percha Creek below Kingston.
Not found in the mountains.
Gastrocopta pilsbryana Sterki.
Not uncommon on top.
It was taken at 8 stations between Silver Creek and McKnight's ranger cabin.
Also on Mineral Creek near the Oliver Mine Station 52 and in the Cuchillo Mountains.
Gastrocopta ashmuni Sterki.
Stations 16 Iron Creek and 54 Little Palomas Creek a single shell at each.
The former station probably above 7500 feet is unexpected and above its usual zone in this part of New Mexico.
Gastrocopta quadridens Pils.
Stations 16i Iron Creek near Wright's cabin and 28 south side of Hillsboro Peak.
Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis P and V. Taken at 10 stations along the range above 7500 feet and doubtless to be found in the forest zone wherever minutiae are looked for especially among aspens.
Vertigo modesta n. subsp.
This new subspecies will be described in the next paper of this series.
It was taken in the Black Range at stations 1 9 16 24.
26 28 30 34 39 47.
VALLONIID.
Vallonia perspectiva Sterki.
 Silver Creek Station 9 elevation 8000 feet in the forest zone and above its usual range.
Much lower down it was taken at Station 42 Black Canyon about 4 miles below the crest in drift of the Middle Percha below Kingston Station 54 on Little Palomas Creek and in the Cuchillo Mountains.
Vallonia cyclophorella Ckll.
On the crest at stations 16 39 and 47.
FERUSSACID.
Cochlicopa lubrica Mull..
Found sparingly but generally spread throughout the Black Range from Silver Creek to Black Canyon also on lower levels at Station 1 Kingston Little Palomas Creek Cuchillo and San Mateo Mountains.
SUCOINEID.
Succinea avara Say.
Station 1 Gallina Canyon Middle Percha below Kingston.
Not in the forest zone.
PHYSID.
Physa sp.
undet.
Middle Percha Creek Kingston Animas River near junction of Cherry Creek both in the eastern foothills of the Black Range.
Collecting Stations in the Black Range.
Many of the stations are plotted on the maps pp.
84 and 85 most of the others may be located by then relation to those plotted.
1.
Middle branch of Gallina Creek about 2 miles above Pryor's upper cabin.
2.
Same i miles above cabin at the fork.
3.
4.
Limestone ledges on north and south sides of Silver Creek a few hundred yards above Mitchell Gray's cabin 7500 feet.
4.
Silver Creek just below the box where the trail makes a detour.
5.
Silver Creek above the box on north side near a deserted cabin.
6.
Silver Creek north side a short distance above Station 5.
7.
Silver Creek north side above the preceding.
8.
Saddle above the head of Silver Creek.
9.
South side of the box of Silver Creek.
10.
Gulch tributary to Silver Creek on north side near Strohm's mine.
11 12.
Gulch tributary to Silver Creek about a mile south of Gray's cabin and not far from the same elevation.
12 J.
About a half mile above Spade's cabin on Little Gallina Creek.
13.
Branch of the head of Spring Creek Bull Top Creek .
15.
Outcrop of limestone on east side of Spring Creek where a small ravine enters from the east.
16.
Iron Creek where a ravine with numerous prospect holes enters from the south between confluence of Spring Creek and Wright's cabin.
16 j. Wright's cabin near the head of Iron Creek.
17.
Western side of the north summit of Sawyer Peak about 500 feet below the summit .
17J.
Same vicinity.
3500 feet below summit.
18.
Northeastern flank of Sawyer Peak a half mile below camp on saddle.
 19.
Ravine next up the trail to Sawyer Peak from Grand Central Mine.
20.
Grand Central Mine on the mine side of the ravine.
21.
About 2 miles east of the trail from Sawyer Peak to Grand Central Mine and not much higher than the mine.
22.
Ravine north of Station 19.
23.
A limestone ledge 20 minutes' walk down the mountain east from the camp on the saddle of Sawyer Peak.
23 J. Hillside south of Wright's cabin near head of Iron Creek.
24.
Top of the steep trail north of Wright's cabin.
25.
Just above the box of Holden Prong of Animas Canyon several miles below Holden's Spring.
26.
Hillside southward above Holden's Spring.
27.
A branch of Noonday Canyon heading opposite Holden Spring perhaps 2 miles down.
28.
South side of Hillsboro Peak among aspens.
29.
Branch of Animas Canyon 1 mile west of Animas ranger cabin.
30.
Branch of McKnight Canyon running westward about 31 miles west of Animas cabin and 2 miles from the summit trail.
31.
Drift debris of Middle Percha Creek near Kingston.
32.
Garden of Ir.
Stephen Reay west end of Kingston.
33.
Along summit trail 2 or 3 miles north of Animas ranger cabin.
34.
About half way between Animas and McKnight's ranger cabins in aspens along the summit trail.
35.
Rocky hillside about 2 miles north of McKnight's cabin along the trail.
36.
Rocky slide facing south about a mile north of McKnight's cabin.
37.
Head of McKnight's Canyon.
38.
McKnight's Canyon below the box.
39.
Around lake and cattletrap on the .shoulder of Mimbres Peak.
40.
Eight miles north of McKnight's cabin on trail.
41.
About I5 miles south of Black Canyon ranger station.
42.
Black Canyon about 3 to 4 miles below Reed's ranch.
43.
Bear Wallow Reed's ranch among aspens.
44.
Head of Morgan Creek near the Hermoso trail.
Stations 45 47 and 48 are in the same vicinity.
45.
North and west sides of the head of Morgan Creek.
46.
Rock slides south of Reed's ranch.
47.
Trail half a mile south of Reed's ranch.
48.
Morgan Creek  mile below Station 44.
49.
Black Canyon 1 mile above Diamond Bar Ranch.
50.
Diamond Creek about 4 miles below crest of range.
51.
Diamond Creek about 3 miles below crest of range.
52.
Mineral Creek at Oliver Mine 4 miles above Chloride.
53.
Sam's Canvon 4 miles south of Chloride.
54.
Limestone Mountain on Little Palomas Creek 2 miles north of Bob's ranch.
55.
First mountain across creek above forks at Ocean Wave Mine Big Palomas Creek near Hermosa.
56.
Next peak below 55.
57.
Reservoir on the Animas near mouth of Cave Creek ranch of Rue Panka.
58.
Rock slides on south side of Cave Creek between its mouth and the trail to Hillsboro.
Cuchillo Range.
Three stations at the south end of this small range 6 miles east of Chloride.
San Mateo Range in the south end 6 miles from Monticello.
Several rock slides in the vicinity of Chippy Creek and on the .southern slope were investigated.
Explanation of Plates VII VIII IX X.
Plate VII.
 Figs.
1 la 16.
 Ashmunella tetrodon fragilis n. .subsp.
Type.
Station 58.
No.
115753.
Figs.
2 2a 26.
 Ashmunella tetrodon animorum n. sub.sp.
Type.
Station 26.
No.
115747.
Figs.
3 3a 36.
 Ashmunella cockerelli n. .sp.
Type.
Station 19.
No.
115748.
Fig.
4.
 Depressed specimen of the same lot.
Fig.
5.
 Ashmunella cockerelli argenlicola n. subsp.
Type.
Station 4'.. No.
115749.
Figs.
6 6a 66.
 Ashmunella mendax n. sp.
Type.
Station 16.
Xo.
115754.
Figs.
7 7a.
 Ashmunella cockerelli peroblusa n. sub.p. Type.
Station 21.
No.
115750.
Fig.
8.
 Ashmunella binneyi n. sp.
Type.
Station SV.
Xo.
115751.
Fig.
9.
 Ashmunella cockerelli n. sp.
Enlarged view of type.
Fig.
10.
 Ashmunella mogollonensis Pils.
Enlarged view of specimen from the Mogollon Range.
Plate VIII.
 Figs.
1lc.
 Oreohelixmelcalfei concentrica n. subsp.
Type.
Station 7.
No.
115755.
Id dark specimen of same from Station 22.
Figs.
2 2a.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei radiata n. subsp.
Station 15.
Figs.
33c.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei radiata n. subsp.
Type.
Station 15.
No.
112899.
Figs.
4 4o.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei acutidiscus n. subsp.
Type.
Station 23.
No.
115757.
Fig.
5.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei Ckll.
Type.
No.
10941.
Figs.
6 6a.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei radiata n. subsp.
Station 16.
Figs.
77c.
 Oreohelixpilshryi Ferriss.
Type.
Station 52.
X'o.
112918a.
Plate IX.
 Figs.
116.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei cuchillensis n. subsp.
Type.
No.
115760.
Fig.
2.
 Oreohelixswopei n. sp.
Elevated example from Station 45.
Figs.
336.
 Oreohelixswopei n. sp.
Type.
Station 45.
Xo.
112896.
Figs.
446.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei hermosensis n. .subsp.
Tj'pe.
Xo.
115759.
Figs.
5 5a 6 7. Oreohelixcooperi fW.
G.
B..
Station 9.
No.
115280.
Figs.
8 8a.
 Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B..
Station 4L Xo.
115156.
Fig.
9. Oreohelixcooperi W. G.
B..
Station 26.
Xo.
115306. Fig.
10.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei concentrica.
Embryos.
Xo.
115315.
Fig.
11.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei radiata.
Embryos.
X'o.
115319.
Fig.
12.
 Oreohelixmetcalfei hermosensis.
Embryos.
Xo.
112922.
Fig.
13.
 Oreohelixswopei.
Embryos.
Station 41.
Plate X.
 Fig.
1.
 Ashmunella mendax n. sp.
Station 16.
Fig.
2.
 Ashmunella cockerelli n. sp.
Station 20.
Fig.
3.
 Ashmunella mogollonensis P. and F. Fig.
4.
 Ashmunella cockerelli peroblusa n. subsp.
Station 21.
Fig.
5.
 Ashnuuiella binneyi n. sp.
Station 7.
Fig.
6.
 Ashmunella tetrodon P. and F. San Mateo Mountains.
Xo.
112921.
