II.
THE TRACHEAL SUPPLY OF THE RECTUM OF THE LARVA OF Argia TAIAMANCA FROM JUAN VINAS COSTA Rica
BY JANET P .TAMIESON.
The rectal epithelium of the waterfall dweller Argia talamancapresents three main longitudinal folds one that is dorsal and a little to the left of the median plane a second that is left lateroventral and the third that is right lateral.
These folds Fig.
1.
correspond in position with those of the waterfall dweller Thaumatoneura described by Calvert Entomological News Vol.
XXVI p. 387 and plate XVII fig.
1.
Those of A. talamancaare however deeper as may be seen by comparing photographs of the transverse sections and show a greater complexity.
In some parts of the rectum the free edges of the three folds appear to meet in the center of the lumen of the gut.
Between the bases of these primary folds the epithelium thins out and becomes darkly pigmented.
From the base of each primary fold is given off a secondary shallower fold to the right in the case of the dorsal fold to the left in the case of the left lateroventral fold and ventrally in the case of the right lateral fold.
Toward the hind end of the rectum the secondary folds disappear and the main folds have practically no depth this gives an almost cylindrical shape to the hind part of the rectum.
The larva of Argia putrida from the vicinity of Philadelphia described in the preceding paper by Miss Cullen differing from A. talamancain that it lives in streams of continuously flowing water shows three simple shallow folds in the rectal epithelium one dorsal one right lateral and one left lateral.
The epithelium is much denser and thicker than in this waterfall dweller of the same genus and the thin pigmented areas between the bases of the folds are not so broad.
It has been suggested by Calvert that the more extensive surface area afforded by the greater folding of the rectum together with the thinner less dense nature of the epithelium of the waterfall dwellers may aid these larvae materially in procuring a supply of 6 82 March oxygen from the rectum that supplements the supply obtained by the gills when the larva is in the water.
The caudal gills of A. talamancaare much shorter than those of A. putrida
This suggests that there may be a definite ratio between the shortness of the gills and the complexity of the rectal epithelial folds.
This theor is strengthened by the fact that Anisopterous larvse as described dim rdrti cf rdt rlpa rlrf rlrli ml vim rlt va  Fig.
1.
Transverse section of abdominal organs of larva of Argia talamanca9 near the hind end of the 8th segment TS.
12 of row 6 slide 2 seen from its anterior face.
Cuticle and hypodermis removed before embedding also on the left side right in the figure the longitudinal muscles.
Photographed by Mr. H. A. Walters using Leitz ocular 4 objective 3.
Enlarged 85 diameters.
cf connective tissue and fat.
dim dorsal longitudinal muscle.
drf dorsal rectal fold.
dv dorsal vessel.
Idrti left dorsal rectal trachea.
Idt left dorsal trachea.
llpa left lateral pigmented area.
llrf left lateroventral rectal fold.
llrt left lateral rectal trachea.
lit left lateral trachea lies outside of the field of this figure.
mt Malpighian tubule.
mvpa midventral pigmented area.
r rectum.
rdrti right dorsal rectal trachea.
rlpa right lateral pigmented area.
rlrf right lateral rectal fold.
rlrti right lateral rectal trachea.
rdl right dorsal trachea.
rlt right lateral trachea.
va vagina.
vim ventral longitudinal muscle.
by Tillyard Proceedings of the Linnean Society of New South Wales 1915 Vol.
XL Part 3 August 25 have a much greater folding of the rectal epithelium and no caudal gills.
To quote him The rectum presents six longitudinal double rows of lamellate folds.
It is within the thicker unpigmented portion of the rectal epithelium of A. talamancathat the fine ends of the tracheoles which reach the epithelium are embedded.
Though the number of these embedded tracheoles is small numerous tracheae were traced into the folds and almost to the epithelium.
This would suggest that diffusion of oxygen takes place more easily through the unpigmented portions of the folds.
The secondary folds increase the diffusion area.
The fact that no tracheoles were traced through or even up to the pigmented epithelium between the folds suggests that these areas are reserved for the osmosis of carbonic acid gas from the body tissues into the rectum.
For says Tillyard It is well known .
.
.
that chitin is a colloid substance which admits of the passage through it of gases by cUffusion and is particularlypartial to carbonic acid gas. 
The absence of folding of the epithelium at the extreme end of the rectum probably merely facilitates the quick and constant flow of water.
The rectal trachece. The tracheae that supply the rectum of A. talamancahave been studied from a series of transverse sections prepared by and in the possession of Dr. Calvert.
Owing to the decay of the anterior rectal epithelium some smaller tracheoles may have been lost.
Two main dorsal longitudinal tracheae have been traced one on the left Idt of figs.
1 and 2 the other on the right idt.
These divide at the posterior end of the ninth segment respectively into the left caudal gill trachea Icgt and left median caudal gill trachea Imcgt and into the right caudal gill trachea rcgt and the right median caudal gill trachea rmcgt.
Within the posterior half of segment VIII arise from the longitudinal dorsal tracheae a right dorsal rectal trachea rdrti and a left dorsal rectal trachea Idrti both of which pass mesad and caudad into the dorsal longitudinal rectal fold where they divide and subdivide.
Some of the smaller tracheoles enter the epithelium but no anastomoses were observed.
From the lateral tracheae rlt and lit which are connected with the dorsal longitudinal trunks in the middle of segment VIII there come off ventrally in the anterior half of segment VIII the lateral 84 March rmct  Fig.
2.
Diagram of the tracheation of the rectum of larva of Argia talaynanca reconstructed from sections.
To avoid confusion the tracheae are represented as lying farther to right and to left from the gut and from each other than is actually the case compare Fig.
1.
Of the trachese which supply the gut walls those which run on the dorsal surface or enter the dorsal longitudinal fold are shown in solid lines those which run on the ventral surface or enter the lateral folds are shown in broken lines.
The ventral anastomosis is shown in dots and dashes.
The Roman numerals on the left side indicate the boundaries of the respective abdominal segments the larger Arabic numerals on the right the microscopic slides and the smaller Arabic numerals the rows of sections on each slide of the series corresponding to that part of the diagram represented as at the same horizontal level.
Each row comprises about 30 sections.
Abbreviations as in Figure 1 and as explained in the text.
rectal tracheae rlrti and llrti.
Each of these passes mesacl and caudad and enters the lateral longitudinal rectal fold of its respective side.
The origin of the right lateral rectal trachea differs slightly from that of Thaumatoneura as worked out by Calvert.
Subdivision of these tracheae occurs and some of the tracheoles enter the epithelium.
No anastomosis has been found here.
A smaller posterior rectal supply llrtu and rlrtn is received by the lateral rectal folds from the left and right median caudal gill tracheae respectively.
Some of these tracheoles also enter the epithelium but no anastomosis occurs.
A small posterior dorsal supply Idrtn is received by the dorsal longitudinal fold and by the epithelium from the left median caudal gill trachea.
The corresponding 
group on the right has been traced laterad through and around the muscle fiber mass toward the periphery of the body.
The last two paragraphs show slight differences between Thaumci' toneura and Argia talamanca
Calvert's statement for Thaumatoneura may be quoted here for A. talamanca
The only anastomosing tracheae which have been discovered are the posterior terminations of the right and left 
lateral longitudinal tracheae which assuming a ventral position meet on the midventral line ventrad of the alimentary canal in this anastomosis anas take part also a branch from the right and a branch from the left 
lateral caudal gill trachea.
The interrogation marks signify an incomplete tracing in Argia talamancadue to maceration of parts of the anastomosing tracheae from the left side.
I think I may say that all the tracheae large and small that were traced possessed a black pigment that added materially to the ease of tracing.
As has been observed for Thaumatoneura this pigment presents the same appearance as that of the areas between the three longitudinal folds of the rectal epithelium.
For material directions and suggestions in my work I am indebted to Dr. P. P. Calvert whose treatment of Thaumatoneura I have followed for Argia talamanca
The sections studied were of larva No.
2 9 from the nearer waterfall Juan Vinas Costa Rica March 2326 1910 which died in attempted rearing its condition is therefore histologically poor.
The locality has been described by Calvert in his Thaumatoneura paper cited.
III.
THE HINDGUT ABDOMINAL TRACHEA AND RECTAL RESPIRATION IN THE LARVA OF MECISTOGASTER MODESTUS FROM COSTA Rica
BY MITCHEL CARROLL.
The abdominal viscera including the rectum of Mecistogaster modestus have been described by Calvert 1911 b p. 452 from a dissection of larva No.
1 male.
The slides for the following study were loaned by Dr. Calvert from his personal collection.
They contain the serial transverse sections of the last five abdominal segments and bases of the median and right caudal gills of female larva No.
3.
This larva was one of those obtained by Dr. Calvert from the water collected between the bases of the leaves of a Bromeliad at Juan Vifias Costa Rica April 26 1910 1911 a pp.
407408.
It was killed in hot water and preserved in alcohol.
Before sectioning the chitinous cuticle was removed from the abdominal segments.
The stains used were Delafield's haematoxylin and alcoholic eosin.
The sections were cut .015 mm.
thick.
The HindGut.
The hindgut may be divided into six distinct parts.
A brief description of these divisions is given below.
The Malpighian tubes are attached to the gut at the junction of segments VI and VII. Calvert 1911 h Plate XVII Fig.
8.
From this point caudad to section 35 there are twelve longitudinal folds in the epithelium lining the lumen of the gut.
The position of these adopting the Clock Face Notation of Tillyard 1916 p. 132 is 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12 where the larger figures indicate longer folds the small figures shorter folds Fig.
1 of sect.
20.
All the figures accompanying this paper are of the larva of Mecistogaster modestus Selys.
The photographs reproduced in Figures 15 were made by Mr. H. A. Walters using Leitz ocular 4 objective 3.
They represent the posterior surfaces of the several sections.
Fig.
1.
Part of photograph of transverse section 20 Short Intestine.
Enlarged 142 diameters.
b basement membrane.
Im bands of longitudinal muscle.
cm circular muscle coat of the gut.
mt Malpighian tubule.
dim dorsal longitudinal muscle.
nc nerve cord.
dv dorsal vessel.
pe pigmented epithelium.
e epithelial layer.
rad radial muscle strands.
 longitudinal epithelial fold projectret reticulate connective tissue.
ing caudad into a pouch Fig.
3.
vim ventral longitudinal muscle.
i chitinous intima.
Tracheae as in Figure 6.
Fig.
2.
Part of photograph of transverse section 55 Prerectal Ampulla.
Enlarged 100 diameters.
Abbreviations as in Figure 1.
1918.
cm dv h 87 dim Idt lit Ivs vim nc rdl ret mt e mt i TVS dim Idl ret Im lit ml ll'S ret vim Xl i .VI  t r.W' rdl cm b rlt rvs Im nc This part of the hindgut from about section 1 to section 35 anterior part of segment VII Fig.
6 seems to be homologous with the ileum or small intestine of the Orthoptera Minot 1880 pp.
209 217 Packard 1898 pp.
316 317 Bordas 1898 pp.
48 and 52 and with the small intestine of Anisopterous larvae Sadones 1895 pp.
277 279 291 Faussek 1887 p. 708 Tillyard 1916 p. 131.
In his recent book on the Dragonflies Tillyard 1917 pp.
101 113 114 Tillyard calls this division of the hindgut the short intestine but there is present here no ventral pad of thick columnar epithelium as described by that author and Sadones.
In Fig.
1 of sect.
20 we have from within outward the chitinous intima 
 the epithelial layer e the basement membrane 6 and the circular muscular coat cm.
The cells of the epithelial layer are not all of the same size.
The largest are those of the apical portions of the longer folds.
Here the cells are elongate and in the transverse sections of the ileum appear somewhat wedgeshaped with the bases of the wedges next the intima.
In the shorter folds and in the furrows between the folds the cells are much flatter.
The basement membrane follows the folds of the epithelium mesad leaving as a result triedral spaces between itself and the circular muscle coat these spaces are filled with blood.
Just posterior to section 20 Fig.
1 and 6 row 4 of slide 1 three Nos.
4 8 and 12 of the above six large folds gradually broaden out become flatter and transform into the three broad longitudinal bands of thick columnar epithelium seen at section 55 Fig.
2 row 5 of slide 1.
The other nine folds i.
2.
3  5.
6.
7  3.
10. n consisting of the epithelium mentioned in the preceding paragraph are also present at this point.
Figure 2 represents the appearance of the hindgut between sections 35 and 80.
It is probably homologous with the prerectal ampulla of some Orthoptera Bordas 1898 pp.
52 48 and of Anisopterous larviB Sadones 1895 pp.
280 295 Tillyard 1916 Plate 31.
Sadones describes two broad bands of thick epithelium separated from one another by folds of a different kind of thin epithelium in the prerectal ampulla of the larva of LiheUula depressa.
Tillyard's description of this section of the gut agrees with that of Sadones Tillyard 1917 pp.
101 113 114.
The diameter of the gut too is here greater than in the parts of the digestive tube immediately preceding and following.
But both Sadones and Faussek 1887 pp.
708 709 state that two kinds of epithelia also occur in the ileum of Anisopterous larvse.
Faussek indeed does not mention the occurrence of a prerectal ampulla in Aeschnid larvse.
Whatever be the true homology of this portion of the gut it is clearly differentiated from the preceding and following divisions of the alimentary canal by the presence of the three bands of thick columnar epithelium.
Histologically this columnar epithelium appears similar to the longitudinal folds of columnar epithelium found further caudad in the rectal part of the hindgut.
The three bands of columnar epithelium referred to in this and the preceding paragraph extend from about section 35 or 40 to section 8 J Fig.
6 that is through about the middle third or fourth of segment VII.
In Fig.
2 in addition to the parts already discussed we see the intima i basement membrane 6 circular muscular coat cm and the bands of longitudinal muscle Im.
There are six of the latter but they are not all visible in the photograph.
They are located outside the circular muscles near the bases of the folds 1 3 5 7 9 11.
The musculature of the posterior intestine of Mecistogaster seems to be similar to that of the insects described by the authors mentioned in this paper.
Caudad to section 80 the gut narrows and the three bands of columnar epithelium gradually assume again the appearance they had cephalad to section 35.
That is the epithelium of these folds becomes indistinguishable histologically from that of the other folds.
Indeed in transverse section the gut has much the same appearance posterior to section 80 that it has anterior to section 35 Fig.
1.
This portion of the gut from about section 80 to section 140 Fig.
6 may correspond to the colon of some Orthoptera Minot 1880 pp.
209 217.
Or which is unlikely if the portion of the digestive tube immediately following this instead of the one immediately preceding is homologous with the prerectal ampulla of Anisopterous larvae Sadones pp.
280 295 this is homologous with the small intestine of Anisopterous larvse Sadones p. 279 Tillyard p. 131 Faussek pp.
708 709.
At section 110 Fig.
6 posterior part of segment VII there are six large folds Nos.
2 4 6 8 10 12 which practically fill the lumen of the gut.
At section 140 the above folds have decreased in size and the gut has become pouched.
This pouching increases greatly the diameter of the lumen so that from sections 150 to 160 Fig.
3 of sec.
150 it is relatively very wide.
The longitudinal epithelial folds project caudad into these pouches for some distance.
It may be that this pouched portion of the intestine is homologous with the prerectal ampulla of some Orthoptera Bordas 1898 pp.
48 52 and Anisopterous larvae Sadones 1895 pp.
280 295 Tillyard 1916 p. 131 and 1917 pp.
101 113 114 but the character of the epithelium does not correspond to that described by Tillyard and Sadones.
The latter describes and figures two lateral plates of thick epithelium separated from one another by numerous folds of thin epithelium.
In this portion of the Mecistogaster intestine there is only one kind of epithelium.
In the larva under discussion it is not very well preserved but seems to be similar to that already described as cccurring in the first and third divisions of the hindgut.
Then too there is no narrowing or constriction of the intestine posterior to this pouched or csecal region as in the other insects mentioned above the pouched region passes without any very apparent change in diameter into the rectum.
In the diagram Fig.
6 the gut between sections 50 and 80 the part which as has been suggested is probably homologous with the prerectal ampulla of other insects is seen to be supplied with branches from the left and right visceral tracheae Ivs rvs.
Some of these tracheoles end just within and some just without the basement membrane of the large columnar cells of the three broad folds 4 8 and 12 or bands referred to above.
The middorsal 12 and the left ventrolateral 8 folds are supplied by tracheoles from the left visceral trachea Ivs the right ventrolateral fold 4 is supplied by branches from the right visceral trachea rvs.
No tracheoles have been found penetrating any of the other folds of the gut epithelium thus far mentioned.
The next or fifth division of the posterior intestine is the rectum proper.
Minot 1880 pp.
209 210 218 Packard p. 318 Tillyard 1916 pp.
131 140189 and 1917 pp.
101 114 115 116 Sadones 1895 pp.
277 280 294315 Faussek 1887 pp.
708711 Bordas 1898 pp.
48 52.
In Anisopterous larvae it is this region which functions as the branchial basket Tillyard.
In Mecistogaster there is of course nothing corresponding to a branchial basket.
The socalled rectal glands which Tillyard 1916 pp.
179189 has shown to be homologous with the rectal gills are represented by thre broad longitudinal folds of thick columnar epithelium Fig.
4 of sect.
250 instead of six as in Anisopterous larvae.
These folds occupy the same relative positions Nos.
4 8 and 12 of the Fig.
3.
Part of photograph of transverse section 150 Pouched Part of the Rectum.
Enlarged 115 diameters.
Abbreviations as in Figure 1.
Fig.
4.
Part of photograph of transverse section 250 Rectum.
Enlarged 114 diameters.
Abbreviations as in Figure 1.
1918.
91 X rdl lit Ivs m'Lm rll mt ret Idrti K Idt cm pe vim ret rdt rlrti mt  vim III nc rll Clock Face Notation as the three folds of columnar epithelium seen from sections 40 to 80 Figs.
6 and 2.
Histologically too the epithelia of the folds 4 8 and 12 of these two portions of the gut appear similar.
These folds have been described by Calvert in the larva of this species 1911 b p. 452 Plate XVII Fig.
10.
The rectum extends from about section 160 to section 380 Fig.
6 that is through nearly all of segment VIII all of segment IX and the anterior fourth of segment X.
Figure 4 represents the appearance of the rectum from section 200 to section 300.
From within outward can be seen the chitinous intima 
' the folds of columnar epithelium e the basement membrane b the noncontinuous circular muscular coat cm and the longitudinal strands of muscle Im.
These last are located at the positions 1 3 5 7 9 11 of the clock face notation but do not stand out very clearly in the photograph.
Spaces between the basement membrane and the circular muscle coat are filled with blood and Maljighian tubules also extend into them e.g. in TS.
315 319 324 327 342 etc.
In this part of the rectum almost the entire lining of the gut consists of the epithelium of the three longitudinal folds.
The latter are however separated by three small pigmented areas Fig.
4.
These are the noncellular bands described by Calvert in larva No.
1 1911 b p. 452 Plate XVII Fig.
10.
I have examined the original slide containing the rectum of larva No.
1 and found no trace of cells or nuclei in these three areas.
In Fig.
4 one of these pigmented bands mvpa is seen to be midventral the other two rlpa and llpa are dorsolateral in position.
At section 320 where the longitudinal folds 2 6 10 begin to appear in the pigmented bands the cellular nature of these areas becomes somewhat more apparent.
Compare Cullen 1918 fig.
1 and Jamieson 1918 fig.
1.
Mecistogaster larva No.
1 described by Calvert was older than No.
3 the subject of this paper.
Whether the age of the larva has anything to do with the presence or absence of epithelial cells in the pigmented rectal bands I am unable to say.
It does not seem likely that it is a matter of fixation as larvae No.
1 2 and 3 were all fixed in the same way hot water and at the same time.
The three broad folds of the rectal epithelium and the three small pigmented areas mentioned in the two preceding paragraphs are homologous with similar folds and areas in the rectum of Thaumatoneura Calvert 1915 p. 387 and Argia Cullen 1918 p. 77 Fig.
1.
The folds are however much shallower than in Thaumatoneura Calvert 1915 Plate XVII Fig.
1 and Argia talamancaJamieson 1918 p. 82 Fig.
1.
They resemble more the folds seen in Argia moesta putrida Cullen I.e.
The epithelium too is much thicker 41 to 83 m in Mecistogaster modestus than in the first two larvae named above resembling more Argia moesta putrida in this respect also.
But on slide 7 of Thaumatoneura larva No.
7 female Dr. Calvert's parsonal collection I found sections where the epithelium of the rectal folds was about as thick 50 or 60 m as that of the corresponding region in Meeistogaster. About section 310 Fig.
6 the three folds 4 8 12 of thick columnar epithelium begin to occupy less and the pigmented areas separating them more of the gut wall.
At section 370 the folds or rather bands for they are no longer folds of columnar epithelium have contracted so as to form only about half of the gut wall.
The epithelium of these bands has however become much thicker 83 than further cephalad.
Between these bands are seen three folds Nos.
2 6 and 10 of spongy or reticulate connective tissue covered on the lumen side by the more or less broken down epithelium of the pigmented areas mentioned above.
While spaces filled with blood and an occasional jMalpighian tubule exist between the basement membrane of folds 4 8 and 12 and the circular muscle coat the circular muscle fibres are in contact with the spongy tissue of folds 2 6 and 10.
Folds of spongy tissue homologous to those in Mecistogaster occur in the rectum of Thaumatoneura larva.
On slide 7 of Thaumatoneura larva No.
7 female Dr. Calvert's collection there are three such folds of reticulate tissue covered by a pigmented epithelium.
About section 373 Fig.
6 some of the spongy tissue extends out into the hsemocoele.
From section 383 Fig.
6 anterior part of segment X caudad to the end of the gut no more is seen of the large columnar cells of the longitudinal folds.
This region from about section 380 to the end of the gut corresponds to the vestibule or anal part of the rectum of Anisopterous larvae Sadones 1895 pp.
277 280 315 Tillyard 1916 p. 131 and 1917 pp.
101 114 115 116 Faussek 1887 p. 45.
But there are not two kinds of epithelia as described by Sadones for Libellula depressa nor is there any indication of a  As the larvae of Thaumatoneura and of Argia talamancafigured in the papers above cited were unavoidably those which died in attempted rearing it is perhaps not impossible that the thinness of their epithelia may be a starvation effect.
 P. P.
Calvert.
94 March stratification of the epithelium as mentioned by that author Sadones Fig.
49 .
The epitheUum covering the six longitudinal folds although it is not as well preserved in this region as one would wish seems to consist of a single layer of elongate cells.
These except for the presence of more pigment are similar to those described for the folds of the first part of the hindgut.
The musculature of the anal part of the Mecistogaster intestine is homologous as is pointed out below to the musculature of the corresponding region in Anisopterous larvae.
Imcgt rmcgt ret dim   Icgt e rad e ret rcgt rad vim lit rlt Fig.
5.
Part of photograph of transverse section 393 Anal Part or Vestibule of the Rectum.
Enlarged 125 diameters.
Abbreviations as in Figure 1.
Figure 5 is a photograph of section 393.
It illustrates the appearance of this sixth and last division of the hindgut.
In section 393 the following parts can be made out intima i pigmented epithelium of the six longitudinal folds e the epithelium of folds 2 6 and 10 is continuous with the more or less disintegrated epithelium of the pigmented areas of the preceding division of the gut  basement membrane 6 reticulate connective tissue ret circular muscle layer an and the radial muscle strands rad.
Summary of the Divisions of the HindGut with Homologies.
s  HOMOLOGIES TEXT FIGURE FOLDS LOCATION TH 11 o 1.
Ileum Orthoptera Short Intestine Anisoptera.
Fig.
1 12 folds Nos.
1.2.3.4.5.6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
Anterior part segment VII Sections 135. o  3 t 1 2.
.3.
4.
5.
Prerectal Ampulla Anisoptera some Orthoptera.
Fig.
2 3 folds of thick columnar M i d d 1 e part epithelium Nos.
4 8 12
segment VII and 9 other folds Nos.
Sections 351.
2.35.
6.
79.
10.
11.
80.
O 0 .43 la Colon some Orthoptera.
Not figured similar to Fig.
1 12 folds Nos.
1.2.3.4.
5.
6.
7.
8.9.
10.
11.
12.
Posterior part segment VII Sections 80140.
S IH rl  Pouched Region no reference to such a region found in the literature.
Fig.
3 Anterior part segment VIII Sections 140160.
11 O 11 d a s 11 1  Anterior part of Rectum most insects B r anchial Basket Anisoptera.
Fig.
4 3 folds Nos.
4 8 12 of thick columnar epithelium.
Toward posterior end folds 2 6 and 10 are also present.
Segments VIII IX X Sections 160380. s o 6.
Anal part of Rectum Vestibule Anisoptera.
Fig.
5 6 folds Nos.
2 4 6 8 10 12.
Segment X Section 380 to anus.
There are six of the radial muscle strands.
They connect with the rectum at the points 1 3 5 7 9 11 of the clock notation as described by Tillyard.
Radiating outward they are attached at their peripheral ends to the body wall.
They correspond to the radial rectal dilator muscles of Anisopterous larvae Tillyard 1916 pp.
139 140 Sadones 1895 p. 316.
As indicated in the above table Tillyard in his recent excellent book The Biology of Dragonflies 1917 pp.
101 113 114 115 116 divides the hindgut of Odonate larvae into two main parts the small intestine or ileum and the rectum.
The small intestine is subdivided into the short intestine and prerectal ampulla.
The first two divisions of the hindgut in the present larva are evidentlj homologous with these two parts.
But histologically the structure of this part of the intestine in Mecistogaster differs from the description given by Tillyard or the other authors mentioned above.
The third division of the small intestine which is called the colon in the table is not described by Tillyard.
Tillyard's statement 1917 footnote p. 101 that ''in Zygopterid larvae the rectum is undivided is hardly true for Mecistogaster.
In the present larva as indicated in the above table and described on preceding pages the rectum as the term is used by Tillyard is divided into three distinct regions.
These differ from one another both in gross morphology and finer histological structure.
The Trachea Fig.
6.
In the diagram Fig.
6 in order to represent more clearly the main trunks with their branches most of the tracheae have been drawn far laterad to their true position.
The correct orientation may be obtained by referring to the photographs of the transverse sections Figs.
1 2 3 4 5.
The diameters of the tracheae and gut have been drawn on a scale twice as great as their length.
A glance at Fig.
4 of section 250 shows that the rectum is slightly asymmetrical with respect to the epithelial folds of the gut wall.
By comparing the middorsal fold No.
12 with the same fold in Thaumatoneura larva Calvert 1915 Plate XVII it was possible to determine the true right and left sides.
The latter are correctly represented in the diagram.
Fig.
6 showing the distribution of the abdominal tracheae as seen from the dorsal side.
From the anterior part of segment VII Fig.
6 the two great dorsal longitudinal trunks rdt Idt run caudad dorsolateral to the gut as far as sections 40 and 60 respectively.
At these points transverse connectives die are given off to the lateral longitudinal tracheae lit rlt.
From about sections 95 to 130 the dorsal trunks are almost in contact with one another and lie dorsal to the gut.
At about section 170 on the right and 180 on the left two more transverse connectives die connect the dorsal and lateral longitudinal trunks.
At section 190 the dorsal tracheae have moved out laterally and are entirely lateral at section 240 Fig.
4 of section 250 kit and rdt where they lie on opposite sides of the gut.
The anterior or chief left Idrti and right rdrti dorsal rectal tracheae are given off from the dorsal longitudinal trunks about section 250 posterior part of segment VIII.
These dorsal rectal tracheae run mesad and supply the cokminar epithelium of the dorsal rectal longitudinal fold No.
12 Figs.
4 and 6 Idrti and rdrti.
By the time they have reached section 260 posterior end of segment VIII the dorsal trunks are really ventrolateral in position with respect to the gut.
At section 320 they are again dorsolateral in position and at section 328 caudad to the middle of segment IX they divide into the median Imegt rnicgt and lateral Icgt rcgt caudal gill tracheae Figs.
5 and 6.
The lateral gill tracheae pass to the ventral side of the gut and thence into the lateral gills.
From the left median caudal gill trachea Imcgt small branches Idrtn are given off to the dorsal rectal fold at section 345 segment IX and section 362 segment X.
About section 352 a small branch llrtn is given off to the left ventrolateral rectal fold.
From the right median caudal gill trachea rnicgt a branch rlrtn is given off to the right ventrolateral rectal fold at section 356.
Two other small branches whose course could not be followed are also given off at about this point.
In the anterior part of segment VII the lateral longitudinal tracheae lit rlt lie on opposite sides of the gut beneath the dorsal trunks Figs.
1 and 6.
They remain lateral in position as far as section 180 anterior part of segment VIII.
A little caudad to this they pass between the hypodermis and the ventrolateral muscle masses to the ventral side of the abdomen.
They run thence caudad beneath the gut Figs.
6 and 4 lit rlt but never in contact with it and giving off no branches to it to section 373 segment X.
Here the right lateral longitudinal trachea rlt passes over to the left side and joins section 388 the left lateral longitudinal trachea lit forming an anastomosis arias separating again almost immediately after section 391 Fig.
5 they join respectively tracheae rcgt and Icgt.
7 98 March Closed spiracles Fig.
6 Sp.
7 connect with the lateral longitudinal tracheae rlt lit at sections 4549 and 60 segment VII where the dorsal lateral connectives die are given off to the dorsal longitudinal trunks kit rdt.
There are closed spiracles Sp.
8 also at the corresponding points on the lateral tracheae in segment VIII sections 165 and 171.
But in addition to the dorsal lateral connectives there originate here the tracheae which bifurcate at about section 190 to form the right rvs and left Ivs visceral tracheae and the right rlrti and left Urti lateral rectal tracheae.
The latter may be considered as prolongations caudad of the visceral tracheae Figs.
6 and 4.
The left visceral trachea Ivs as shown in Fig.
6 runs cephalad as far as section 1 anterior end of segment VII.
Between sections 190 and 155 it lies ventrad to but not in contact with the gut Fig.
3 Ivs anterior to section 155 it assumes a lateral position Fig.
1.
At section 120 the main trachea divides into three branches.
One of these supplies the left ventrolateral fold No.
8 of columnar epithelium Sect.
60.
The third branch runs forward to the Fig.
6.
Diagram of the hindgut and rectal tracheae.
The abdominal segments are numbered in Roman numerals on the left side of the figure the microtome sections are numbered in Arabic on the right.
The sections are numbered in order 1420 beginning at the anterior end of the hindgut anterior end of segment VII and proceeding caudad to the posterior end of segment X.
The short horizontal lines immediately above the Roman numerals indicate the approximate boundaries of the segments.
The meanings of the abbreviations designating the tracheae are given below.
Those portions of the lateral longitudinal tracheae which lie ventrad to the gut are represented by lines of alternating dots and dashes thus ......
This has been done to distinguish them from the tracheoles which either run along or pass into the ventral rectal walls and are represented by broken lines thus .
The tracheoles which run along or pass into the dorsal rectal wall are represented by solid lines.
Abbreviations.
anas anastomosis.
die transverse tracheae connecting the dorsal and lateral longitudinal tracheae.
Icgt left caudal gill trachea.
ci anterior or chief left dorsal rectal trachea.
Idrln posterior or secondary left dorsal rectal trachea.
Idt left dorsal longitudinal trachea.
lit left lateral longitudinal trachea.
llrti anterior or chief left lateral rectal trachea.
llrtu posterior or secondary left lateral rectal trachea.
Imcgt left median caudal gill trachea.
Irs left visceral trachea.
r rectum.
rcgt right caudal gill trachea.
rdrti anterior or chief right dorsal rectal trachea.
rdt right dorsal trachea.
rlrti anterior or chief right lateral rectal trachea.
rlrtn posterior or secondary right lateral rectal trachea.
rlt right lateral trachea.
rtncgt right median caudal gill trachea.
rvs right visceral trachea.
sp7 unopened spiracle of the 7th abdominal segment.
sp8 unopened spiracle of the 8th abdominal segment.
1918.
99 rrncgt rcgt junction of the Malpighian tubes with the gut where it breaks up into small tracheoles ramifying among these tubes and about the circular muscular coat of the gut.
The distribution of the right visceral trachea I'vs and its branches is similar to that of the left except that while it gives off tracheoles to the right ventrolateral fold No.
4 of the intestinal epithelium it gives off none to the dorsal fold.
The left lateral rectal trachea llrfi and the right lateral rectal trachea rlrti give off tracheoles respectively to the left ventrolateral rectal longitudinal fold No.
8 and the right ventrolateral rectal longitudinal fold No.
4 Figs.
6 and 4.
It will be seen that in the main the abdominal tracheal system of this Mecistogaster larva is similar to that described by Calvert for Thaumatonetira 1915 Plate XVI and pp.
388 389 and by Cullen and by Jamieson for Argia 1918 pp.
77 79 figs.
1 2 pp.
82 84 figs.
12.
For convenience in comparison I have used the same nomenclature and abbreviations as employed by those authors.
Rectal Respiration.
A glance at Figure 6 shows that the tracheole supply of the hindgut is not rich and is limited to those portions of the latter which have been described as having longitudinal folds of thick columnar epithelium.
All of the tracheoles have been traced as far as possible to their terminations.
Owing to the fact that cell boundaries in the intestinal epithelium are indistinct it could not be absolutely determined if any tracheoles terminate inside cells.
Usually the twigs appear to end just within the basement membrane of the columnar epithelium of the rectal folds so seem to end for instance the twigs seen between sections 300 and 320.
Sometimes like the terminations of llrti sections 320 to 340 and the caudal branch of rdrti sections 260280.
the twigs seem to end outside the basement membrane.
Sometimes as in the twigs running cephalad from llrti and rlrti in sections 178 to 200 the terminations may possibly be within the cells.
Others may pass between the cells.
But one fact is clearly evident and seems to be significant all the tracheal twigs end on the basement membrane side of the thick columnar epithelium.
The tracheoles are at all points separated from the lumen of the gut by the thickness 41 to 83 micra of the columnar epithelium.
Furthermore the columnar epithelium is the only part of the internal rectal wall which has a tracheal supply.
No twigs to the pigmented areas between these folds could be found.
The extensive folds of spongy or reticulate tissue covered on the inside by a thinner epithelium and extending from about the middle of segment IX to the end of segment X also seem destitute of tracheoles.
In view of the above facts it seems improbable that any diffusion takes place between gases in the rectal tracheoles and those in the water in the rectum.
This conclusion is strengthened if the position of the rectal tracheal twigs in Mecistogaster is contrasted with the position of the tracheal gill capillaries in Anisopterous larvae where diffusion of oxygen is known to take place.
The gill capillaries in Anisopterous larvae Tillyard 1915 p. 425 Figs.
3 and 5 also 1916 lie in a thin layer of very flattened cells the gill epithelium.
They lie too fairly close up to the chitinous cuticle of the gill.
They are very numerous excessively fine and each forms a complete loop.
In Mecistogaster the tracheal twigs are separated from the chitinous lining of the gut lumen by a thick epithelium they are not excessively fine do not form loops and are not numerous.
They are absent except for one small area sections 60 to 80 in segment VII in which together with segment VIII lies the gill basket of Anisopterous larvae Tillyard 1916 p. 139.
Nevertheless there must be other means of respiration in Zygopterid larvae than that through the caudal gills.
Calvert 1911 b p. 455 found in Mecistogaster modestus as in most perhaps all Zygopterous larvae the caudal gills may be lost without interfering with growth development and transformation.
Mr. Bodine 1918 has recently succeeded in keeping Zygopterid larvae from which the gills had been removed alive for three and four days when confined at the bottom of a Mason jar filled with stagnant water.
If we exclude respiration through the integument the only alternative seems to be some sort of rectal respiration.
In support of the latter we have Calvert's observations on living larvae of Calopteryx maculata Hetaerina americana and Argia moesta putrida Calvert 1915 pp.
437442.
He found regular rhythmic pulsations of the rectum with inhalations and expirations of water in these forms may be carried on for long periods.
Tillyard 1916 pp.
410413 found regular rectal pulsations in newly hatched larvae of Austrolestes leda up until they were half an hour or more old when the movements became intermittent.
If rectal respiration occurs in the larvae of Mecistogaster modestus the only areas which seem morphologically suitable for an exchange of gases are the longitudinal folds of spongy or reticulate tissue.
In this connection it may or may not be worth noting that Calvert 1911 h p. 453 and Plate XVII in dissecting Mecistogaster larva No.
1 found when the viscus was first opened the three noncellular bands folds of spongy tissue just referred to had the shiny silvery appearance which suggests enclosed air.
But since these areas either lack entirely or have a very scanty tracheal supply the oxygen would have to be taken up and carried by the blood. We are not able to correlate any peculiarity of the tracheation of the larva of Mecistogaster modestus with its habit of living in the water between the leafbases of epiphytic bromeliads Calvert 1911 a.
In the study of these slides and in the preparation of the manuscript I am indebted to Dr. Calvert for suggestions directions and corrections.
Literature Cited.
For a more complete bibliography on the respiratory organs and the physiology of respiration of Zygopterous Odonate larvae see Calvert Ent.
News Vol.
XXVI p. 444.
BoDiNE J. H.  1918.
Papers on the Rectal Tracheation and Rectal Respiration of the Larvae of Odonata Zygoptera.
IV.
Experimental Results in Ischnura and Enallagma.
Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia LXX pp.
103113.
BoRDAS L.  1898.
Appareil Digestif des Orthopteres.
Ann.
des Sc.
Nat. Zoo.
VIII 5.
Calvert P. P.  1911 a.
The Habits of the Plantdwelling Larva of Mecistogaster modestus.
Ent.
News Vol.
XXII pp.
402411.
 1911 b.
Structure and Transformation of the Larva of Mecistogaster modestus.
Ent.
News Vol.
XXII pp.
449460.
 1915.
Internal Organs of Thaumatoneura Larva and the Respiration and Rectal Tracheation of Zygopterous Larvae in General.
Ent.
News Vol.
XXVI pp.
385395 Nov. pp.
435447 Dec. CuLLEN A. M.  1918.
Papers on the Rectal Tracheation and Rectal Respiration of the Larvae of Odonata Zygoptera.
I. Rectal Tracheation of Argia putrida larva.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. LXX pp.
7.581.
Faussek V.  1887.
Histologie des Darmkanals der Insekten.
Zeit.
f. wissench.
Zool. 45.
Jamieson J. P.  1918.
Papers on the Rectal Tracheation and Rectal Respiration of the Larvae of Odonata Zygoptera.
II.
The Tracheal Supply of the Rectum of the larva of Argia talamancafrom Juan Vinas Costa Rica.
Proc.
Acad.
Nat.
Sci. Phila. LXX pp.
8185.
MiNOT C. S.  1880.
Histology of the Locust Caloptenus and the Cricket Anabrus.
Second Rept.
U. S. Ent.
Comm. pp.
183222.
2 Tillyard suggests 1917 p. 116 that in Zygopterid larvae the rectal pads glands or folds act as bloodgills liberating carbonic acid gas from the blood into the rectal water supply by diffusion and receiving air in exchange.
This hardly seems likely.
The blood is separated from the water in the rectum by the basement membrane the thick 41 to 83 micra columnar epithehum and the chitinous intima.
Packard A. S. 1898.
A Textbook of Entomology.
Sadones J.
 1895.
L'Appareil Digestif et Respiratoire Larvaire des Odonates.
La Cellule Tome XI.
TiLLYARD R. J. 1915.
On the Physiology of the Rectal Gills in the Larvae of Anisopterid Dragonflies.
Proc.
of Linn.
Soo.
of N. S. Wales Vol.
XL Part 3 Aug. 25th.
 1916.
A Study of the Rectal Breathing Apparatus in the Larvae of Anisopterid Dragonflies.
Journ.
Linn.
Soc.
London Zool.
Vol.
XXXIII.
November.
 1917.
The Biology of Dragonflies.
Cambridge Zoological Series Cambridge University Press.
