Mollusca FROM CENTRAL AMERICA AND MEXICO.
BY HENRY A. PILSBRY.
The following descriptions and notes are in continuation of those published in these Proceedings for 1919 pp.
212223.
Further comparisons have shown that Donax mediamericana op.
cit.
p. 222 is merely a form of D. striata
The differences depended upon are inconstant.
Scolodonta seteki new species.
Fig.
.
The shell is discoidal broadly umbilicate almost flat above thin Isabella colored slightly translucent.
The surface is glossy finely striate above more weakly so below.
There are six narrowly coiled slowly increasing convex whorls the last at the aperture nearl twice the width of the preceding rounded at periphery and Fig.
1.
 Scolodonta zeteki
base not descending in front.
The umbilicus is conic showing all of the whorls.
The aperture is slightly oblique lunate higher than wide.
Peristome thin and simple the wddely separated terminations joined by a very thin callus.
Alt.
4 diam.
10.9 mm.
 6 whorls.
Gatun.
Alt.
3.4 diam.
9.1 mm.
 5.5 whorls.
Gamboa
Canal Zone Gatun D. E. Harrower GamboaJames Zetek.
Type No.
114079 A. N. S. P. Readily recognized by its discoidal form.
There is a very closely related species in the collection from Venezuela without definite locality R. Swift coll.
 No.
23775 whitish with the whorls a trifle less closelv coiled.
Thysanophora textilisnew species.
Fig.
2.
The shell is umbilicate conoid the height and diameter about equal pale brown.
Sculpture of extremely low subregularly spaced longitudinal waves over all a microscopic granulation produced by the intersection of very minute striae and equally close spiral lines giving the appearance of a fine woven material.
First 1 whorls smooth.
The whorls are ery strongly convex.
Suture very deeply impressed.
Aperture somewhat semilunar oblique outer Up thin and simple the columellar margin broadly dilated.
Alt.
1.8 diam.
1.8 mm.
 4 whorls.
Alt.
1.95 diam.
1.95 mm.
 4j whorls.
Chama Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley.
The microscopic sculpture is somewhat like that of the apex of Drymaeus and unlike any Thysanophora I have examined.
Whether the species belongs to Thysanophora or to Pupisoma is an open question but the shape is rather more like the former.
Fig.
2.
 Thysanophora textilis
Fig.
3.
 Helicina oaxacana
Helicina oaxacananew species.
Fig 3 The shell is a little wider than high with conic spire and bluntly carinate periphery whitish not glossy.
Sculpture of fine growthstriae and fine indistinct protractive wrinkles visible in places only.
The whorls are rather strongly convex the last having a blunt median keel convex above and at the base.
The aperture is semicircular oblique.
Outer IId is moderately expanded.
Columella strongly concave on its ventral side terminating in a projecting tubercle.
Callus small a groove behind the columellar side.
Alt.
4 diam.
4.5 mm.
 4f whorls.
Pjerto Angel Oaxaca Mexico.
C. R. Orcutt 1910.
Type No.
112572 A. N. S. P. This species appears related to H. raresulcata of Vera Cruz but besides the somewhat diverse sculpture it differs by the angular periphery.
The same character differentiates it easily from other small species of the region.
Eutrochatella microdina chryseis Tristr..
Two specimens from Chama measme Alt.
4.2 diam.
3.83 mm. and Alt.
3.55 diam.
3.45 mm. respectively.
The color is barium yellow or between that and amber yellow.
The size is about that given for E. microdina but the proportions are between microdina in which the alt.
and diam.
are 4 mm. and chryseis alt.
4 diam.
3 mm.
Perhaps chryseis may better be ranked as a subspecies of E. ynicrodina.
In this connection it may be noted that Wagner in his monograph places microdina in both Eutrochatella p. 138 and Helicina p. 318.
The species described at p. 318 is certainly not Morelet's species which has been figured from author's specimens by Fischer and Crosse.
E. microdina of which I have three from Morelet is covered with excrement when aUve.
It is paler than chryseis with the spire slightly lower tapering with a wider angle as Fischer and Crosse have pointed out.
E. simpsoni Ancey from Utila Island Honduras is closely related but the whorls project more prominently at the periphery and the size is smaller.
One of the original lot was figured in these Proceedings 1903 pi.
49 fig.
4.
These three forms belonging to the subgenus Pyrgodomus Crosse and Fischer are now for the first time brought together.
COCHLIOPA Stimpsoii.
As this genus has doulled in number of species since the publication of the Biologia CentraliAmericana a catalogue of the species may be of use Cochliopa riograndensis Pils.
 Ferr.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1906 p. 171 pi.
9 figs.
1013.
Nautilus XXIII p. 99.
Rio Grande Ferriss and Pilsbry to the Panuco River tributaries Hinkley.
Cochliopa compacta Pils Nautilus XXIII Jan. 1910 p. 99 pi.
9 figs.
4.
5.
Choy River State of San Luis Potosi Hinkley.
Cochliopa picta Pils.
Nautilus XXIII Jan. 1910 p. 100 pi.
9 figs.
1 2.
Choy and Ganina Rivers State of San Luis Potosi Hinkley.
Cochliopa guatemalensis Iorelet Valvata guatemalensis Morelet Testacea Novissima etc. II 1851 p. 22.
Fischer and Crosse Miss.
Sci.
Mex. Moll.
II p. 302 pi.
48 figs.
226 pi.
50 figs.
116.
Cochliopa guatemalensis Morel.
v. Martens Biologia p. 428.
Rio Michatoja near Istapa southern Guatemala.
Cochliopa rowelli Tryon.
Amnicola rowelli Tryon Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1863 p. 147 pi.
1 figs.
8 9.
Cochliopa rowelli Tryon Stimpson Smithsonian Misc.
Coll.
No.
201 1865 p. 50.
W. G. Binney Land and Freshwater Shells of N. A. Ill p. 73 figs.
144.
Pilsbrv Nautilus XIX 1905 p. 91.
J. Powell Nautilus XX p. 10.
Panama W. Newcomb Rio Matasnillo Las Sabanas Panama J. Zetek.
This species has been omitted from works on Central American mollusks because it was reported from California by the Rev.
J. Rowell who collected the original specimens.
No other Californian conchologist has found it in the places he mentioned but it has been taken in Panama by Dr. Wesley Newcomb many years ago and recently by Mr. James Zetek.
There can be no reasonable doabt that Mr. Rowell was mistaken in the locality and really picked it up on his way to California by the Panama route.
Cochliopa tryoniana Pils.
Nautilus IV 1890 p. 52.
Proc.
A. N. S.
Phila. 1891 p. 331 pi.
15 fig.
12.
Biologia p. 428 pi.
33 figs.
99c.
Western Nicaragua southwestern Costa Rica.
Cochliopa trochulus Martens.
Biologia p. 429 pi.
23 fig.
7.
Southwestern Costa Rica Pittier and Biolley to Panama James Zetek.
Cochliopa infundibulum Martens.
Biologia p. 429 pi.
23. fig.
3.
Guatemala.
Another related species was taken at Esmeralda Rio Dulce Guatemala by Mr. Hinkley.
This I understand will soon be described making in all twelve species of Cochliopa.
Cochliopa hinkleyi new species.
Fig.
4.
The shell is minute planorhoid with a very wide shallow umbilicus and a slightly concave spire.
Color brownish corneous.
The three whorls are oval in section the last descending slowly and at the end only very shortly in contact with the preceding.
Sculpture of numerous subequal rather sharp spiral threads separated by wider intervals a narrow plain band below the suture and a wider one within the umbilicus.
The aperture is slightly oblique roundedoval the peristome very shortly adnate in adults or sometimes very shortly free continuous.
Alt.
0.75 diam.
1.75 mm.
Fig.
4.
 Cochliopa hinkleyi.
Lake Izabal near Jocolo Guatemala A.
A. Hinkley.
With the sculpture of C. guatemalensis this species has the shape of a small Planorbis of the parvus group.
In most adult shells the inner whorls are eroded away leaving a hole through the center of the disc as in the right hand figure.
Sometimes the last whorl is shortly free as in the lower figme. Cochliopa minor new species.
Fig.
5.
The shell is depressed umbilicate the umbilicus rapidl enlarging in the last whorl contained five times in the diameter soHd very pale brownish.
The spire is very low conic.
The first of the four whorls is smooth  spiral ridges set in on the second  on the last there arc about 23 of these ridges nearly equal and a little narrower than the concave intervals the latter showing microscopic growthlines and traces of fine spirals in some places.
The last whorl is rounded peripherally and descends slightly to the aperture.
Aperture is strongly oblique rounded.
Peristome blunt the margins joined by a heavy parietal callus.
Alt.
1.2 diam.
2.1 mm.
 4 whorls.
Cochliopa minor.
Polvon Nicaragua.
Type and paratypes No.
58286 A. N. S. P. collected by the McNeil Expedition.
200 MayOct. These specimens were formerly identified by the writer as C. guatemalensis Morelet.
The latter is much larger diameter 3.5 mm. and came from the Michatoya River near Istopa in southern Guatemala.
The teeth of the radula have denticles according to the formula n 2.1.3 13 CO .
Those of the outer uncinus are very minute not clearly seen.
The lateral tooth has the boss and socket structure of the broad body as in many other Amnicolidae.
Cochliopa izabal new species.
Fig.
6.
The shell is conic umbilicate umbiUcus narrow rapidly widening in the last half whorl rather thin very pale brownishgray smooth except for faint traces of spiral striae a little stronger near the umbilicus and sometimes on the penult whorl.
The spire is eleated the early whorls eroded.
The whorls are strongly coniy Fig.
6.
 Cochliopa izabal.
vex the last everywhere rounded.
The aperture is moderately oblique angular above otherwise rounded.
The outer lip is thin columella concave thickened continued in a callus across the parietal wall.
Alt.
1.75 diam.
1.9 mm.
Type fig.
5 a h. Alt.
1.7 diam.
2.15 mm.
Fig.
5 c d. Alt.
1.85 diam.
'1.5 mm.
Fig.
5 e. Lake Izabal near Jocolo Guatemala.
The nearly smooth form is selected as typical because it predominates in the lot collected.
In some examples no spiral sculpture is visible others are sUghtly to distinctly striate.
The spire is always eroded even in the smallest taken diameter 1.3 mm. of 3 whorls fig.
5 t3ut the summit would be obtuse if perfect the early whorls increasing the shell rapidly in diameter.
At this stage it has the normal shape of Cochlwpa.
Later the whorls descend more rapidly giving it a somewhat Amnicoloid outline.
Fig.
5e represents the narrowest specimen found.
Mutation 'per striata Fig.
7.
Occurring with the smooth and moderately striate specimens there are a few having many strong spiral threads at all postembryonic stages of growth as in C. guatemalensis.
The largest specimens are of this kind.
Alt.
2.7 diam.
2.75 mm.
This species differs conspicuously from C. guatenialensis Morel.
by its elevated spire.
A large series was collected.
Fig.
7.
 Cochliopa izabal mut.
perstriata.
Names Applied to Pachychilus.
Pachychilus I. and H. C. Lea Proc.
Zool.
Soc.
London 1850 p. 179 for P. cummingii Lea   graphium Morel..
Not Pachychila Eschscholtz Zoologischer Atlas 4tes Heft 1831 p. 5 Coleoptera .
Cercimelania Fischer and Crosse Mus.
Sci.
an Mex. Moll.
terr.
et Fluv. ii p. 327 1892 type PAiehmanni Phil.
Glyptomelania F. and C op.
cit.
p. 328 type P. glaphyrus Morel.
Oxymelania F. and C op.
cit.
p. 328 type P. schiedeanus Phil.
Sphaeromelania Rovereto Atti della Societa Ligustica di Sci.
Nat.
e Geogr. X 1899 p. 109 new name for Pachychilus Lea.
The name to be used for this genus depends upon whether Pachychilus and Pachychila are considered to be different names.
They are of course of identical derivation so are Louis and Louise Francis and Frances which serve very well.
Until there is a definite ruling by the International Commission it may be as well to continue to use the familiar Pacliychilus.
Those who consider us and a names identical can adopt Cercimelania type liehmanni Phil. proposed as a subgenus of Pachychilus.
NEW LAND SHELLS.
BY E. G. VANATTA.
Odontosagda havanensis new species.
PI.
VI figs.
1 2 3.
Shell small thin opaque pinkish grey apex obtuse rather large and smooth spire depressed conic composed of four and one half slowly increasing vertically striate whorls suture moderately deep last whorl obtusely angular above the periphery not descending in front base obtusely conic with a wide perspective welllike umbilicus.
The surface of the base is provided with irregular incremental striae and under a strong lens showing spaced spiral striae.
Aperture lunate peristome sharp evenly arcuate within the lip provided with one large white tooth in the basal region below the periphery and a smaller white tooth near the base of the narrow columella.
Alt.
.77 diam.
1.25 alt.
of aperture .42 diam.
.51 mm.
Picked from red earth collected under bushes in front of the Country Club at Havana Cuba by liOuis H. Bregy in March 1920.
The type is tray number 46077 in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
This species is smaller than Odontosagda hillei Gundl.
 0. abhoiti Van.
is larger and less angular near the periphery and 0. hlandi Weinl.
is more elevated.
This new Odontosagda was associated with Praticolella griseola Pfr.
 which has not been reported from Cuba before also Volvidens ivichostoma Pfr.
 Urocoptis poeyana Orb.
 Guppya gundlachi Pfr.
 Caecilioides gund'lachi Pfr.
 and Ennea bicolor Hutton.
Zonitoides bregyi new species.
PI.
VI figs.
6 7 8.
Shell small thin translucent corneus shining apex smooth rather acute spire lowconic suture moderately deep whorls about four sculptured wdth irregular incremental striae and under a strong lens showing fine undulated spiral lines periphery evenly arcuate base convex provided with a deep umbilicus surface shining showing a few growth lines and under a strong lens fine undulated spirals may be seen aperture serailunate peristome thin columella slightly reflexecl parietal wall thin.
Alt.
1.3 diam.
1.88 alt.
of aperture .75 diam.
.88 mm.
Picked from leaf mould collected at the Costa Mine about 15 miles from Bueicito Prov.
Oriente Cuba by Louis H. Bregy in March 1920.
The type is in the cabinet of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia being tray number 46089.
This species has narrower whorls and smaller umbilicus than Zonitoides maya Pils.
 Z.
'paracusis Bkr.
is smaller and Striatura neomexicana Pils.
has a wider umbilicus fewer whorls is more depressed and has a duller surface.
Caecilioides domingensis new species.
PI.
VI flg.
15.
Shell small subcylindrical translucent corneus apex obtuse spire high composed of four and one half moderately convex whorls suture rather deep surface shining sculptured with a few irregular incremental striae base convex imperforate aperture about onethird the altitude of the shell oval narrow above and broader below lip acute slightly arcuate basal hp convex columella truncate comparatively thick concave parietal wall nearly straight parietal callus thin.
Alt.
2.27 diam.
.79 alt.
of apertuie .75 diam.
.54 mm.
The types are tray number 44654 in the Academy's collection and were picked from earth collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott one mile northwest of Sanchez Santo Domingo.
This species has a deeper suture more convex whorls and a more obtuse apex than Caecilioides consobrina Orb.
Opisthosiphon maynardi new species.
PI.
VI figs.
0 10 11 13.
Shell conical thin opaque reddish brown above and greyishyellow below and a white line composed of sharp points at the suture apex truncate widely perforate provided with a bluish plug of shell matter in the end of the decollated whorl spire high conic composed of nearly four convex whorls suture deep acutely dentate the last whorl free from the penultimate whorl near the aperture and again united to it by the parietal callus last whorl evenly arcuate provided with two slightly thickened white spiral Hues near and four others visible within the umbilicus.
The surface of the shell has a dull silklike sculpture and many very indistinct vertical costae about sixty on the penultimate Avhorl body whorl nearly smooth near the aperture aperture entire wide elliptical with a raised smooth rim in advance of the broadly expanded flat white Hp which is provided with several slightly raised concentric lamellae outer lip forming at the suture a recurved hollow tube connecting the deep suture openly with the interior of the aperture by a small round pore.
The broadly expanded basal and columellar lips showing faint white thickenings at the ends of the abovementioned spirals parietal hps expanded into a broad flat plate with its edge attached to the bodywhorl the concentric lamellae upon its surface are interrupted in an oblique line above the pore in the aperture forming a small bay in the upper edge near the outer lip.
Operculum thick calcareous paucispiral smooth within composed of about three rapidly increasing volutions nucleus below the middle outer surface with a deep spiral groove with a raised irregular edge arising near the nucleus continuing along the suture and completely around the outer edge of the operculum the surface is also covered with coarse raised lamellae in the direction of the lines of growth.
Alt.
11.2 diam.
6.3 alt.
of aperture 5.0 diam.
4.4 mm.
The types are in the cabinet of the Academy being tray number 44488 collected at Nassau New Providence Bahama Islands by Mr. C. J. Maynard in 1888.
One specimen has the apex almost entire and is composed of about seven whorls another fig.
11 which is not quite mature has a broad open bay at the upper angle of the aperture disconnecting the parietal wall and outer lips and lacks the raised rim about the inner edge of the mouth some specimens are uniform greyish yellow.
This species differs from Opisthosiphon hohamensis Shutt.
by being smoother having weaker more spaced vertical costae finer crenulations at the suture and a wider expanded lip 0. moreletiana Pet.
has stronger costae and the aperture is free from the body whorl 0. excurrens Gundl.
is more strongly costate obese and cyHndrical.
Helicina abbotti new species.
PI.
VI figs.
12 14.
Shell small globose moderately thick opaque yellowish corneus apex obtuse spire elevated conic composed of four arcuate whorls suture moderately impressed not descending at the aperture periphery convex surface smooth shining with a few oblique lines and incremental striae crossed by very indistinct spiral lines isible under a lens.
The base is rather flat carinate about the edge of the deep umbilical rimation aperture subtriangular outer lip slightly thickened narrowly reflexed descending in a nearly straight hne to the convex periphery basal lip sinuous narrowly reflexed columella thick concave at the edge of the umbilical rimation parietal callus broad heavy linguiform and granulate operculum not found.
Alt.
2.1 diam.
2.8 alt.
of aperture 1.1 diam.
1.4 mm.
The types are in the collection of the Academy being tray number 44370 and were picked from earth collected one mile northwest of Sanchez Santo Domingo Hayti Island by Dr. W. L. Abbott during February 1919.
This species differs from Helicina Artecallosa continua Gundl.
Poey by having broader parietal callus smaller umbilical rimation a more sinuous basal lip a broader columella a more obtuse spire and is smaller and more globose.
Stoastoma domingensis n. sp.
PI.
VI figs.
4 5.
Shell small conic thin opaque greyish white apex rather obtuse smooth spire high conic slightly concave sided composed of five and one half convex whorls body whorl contracted and free near the aperture suture impressed descending in front periphery evenly convex base convex umbilicus minute.
The surface of the shell is sculptured fine spiral hair lines of which nine are visible on the penultimate whorl about nineteen on the bodj whorl and sixteen on the base the growth lines are very indistinct last whorl provided with a smooth band near the aperture aperture semilunate peristome continuous outer lip evenly arcuate basal lip acute columella arcuate slightly thickened parietal wall nearly straight rather thick free from the penultimate whorl.
Alt.
2.47 diam.
2.26 alt.
of aperture .89 diam.
1.04 mm.
The type is in the collection of the Academy being tray number 44372 picked from soil collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott one mile northwest of Sanchez Santo Domingo Hayti Island.
This species is larger and more conic than Stoastoma Lindsleya leanum Ad. which it resembles in the shape of the aperture and sculpture.
PLATE VI.
VANATTA NEW LAND SHELLS.
 NOTES ON ARACHNOIDISCUS.
BY SARAH P. MONKS.
While studying specimens of Hemiqjtychus Arachnoidiscus  which are extremely abundant in many San Pedro California tidepools an unusual form was found which may be called a variety of Arach7ioidisciis ehrenbergii .
Instead of being circular th rajs of equal length it is bluntcuneiform with sides compressed and two sets of short rays.
In all but shape and rays even in various sizes and deformations it is a true Arachnoidiscus and I have called it A. ehrenbergii var.
cuneatus.
It is quite abundant thirty specimens being found in thirty micromounts.
The change of shape is no doubt partly due to overcrowding for although there are miles of tidepools and millions of seaplants to choose from the diatoms are often on some plants in almost incredible abundance.
These ahen epiphytes crowd on many different algae  on stiff Gelidium stony Corallines and even on the flexible stems of other plants.
Sometimes in shallow tidepools nearer land which are exposed to wdnter cold or summer heat during very low tide the diatoms are killed and then the host plant is graycoated like sleetcrusted trees in winter.
But when alive the brown of the diatoms entirely covers the stem of the host 'like a shiny varnish and the only chance the burdened alga has is for terminal growth.
When the brown film dies on exposure to the sun or the dry air the whole colony shows the green of chlorophyll and this green remains for years then when nothing remains but skeletons the effect is grayish white and the diatoms still stick to the host plant.
Not only are the algae burdened with an innumerable host of Arachnoidiscus but there are codwellers members of ten or more other genera.
The habits of these diatoms may account for the many and various irregularities of Arachnoidiscus.
Species of Isthmia hang in festoons and swing away from the alga's stems as do some Biddulpha also acicular species like Lichmophora and Climacosphenia shoot out at many angles thus leaving Arachnoidiscus and other sedentary forms to bear the burden of growthpressure.
This intensive growth pressure in the struggle for existence in the overcrowded seatenement may be responsible for the many deformations of diatoms and the forming of Arachnoidiscus ehrenbergii var.
cuneatus.
