DESCRIPTION OF SOME NEW GENERA OF Mollusca
BY WILLIAM M. GABB.
The following diagnoses of new genera are published in advance of a more extended paper on West Indian mollusca now in process of preparation.
The amount of material embodied in that paper is so great that circumstances will not permit me to illustrate the numerous new species and I avail myself of the present means of explaining by figures the generic descriptions which are not always clearly intelligible from verbal descriptions.
Pteropoda
Fam.
LIMACINID.
Planorbella Gabb pi.
11 fig.
2.
Shell minute vitreous sinistral apex sunken as in Planorbis
This genus from its sinistral character is evidently allied to Limacina from which its planorbiform mode of growth distinctly separates it.
The type P. imitans were it dextral might be mistaken for a very young specimen of Planorbistrivolvus so nearly does it copy the form of that shell.
Gasteropoda
MURICID.E.
Metulella Gabb pi.
11 fig.
3.
Shell fusiform canal more or less produced  inner lip covered with a thickened plate continuous posteriorly with the outer lip.
Interior of both inner and outer lips strongly denticulated or transversely striated.
Surface cancellated or costate.
This genus is more distinctly fusiform than Metida and has the additional character that the inner lip is covered throughout its length by a series of prominent denticles not necessarily corresponding with the coveredup surface ribs.
Type M. fusiformis
TURRID.E.
Glyphostoma Gabb pi.
11. fig.
4.
Shell like Defrancia but with the inner lip strongly cranulated or transversely rugose.
This genus has the same relation to Defrancia that Metulella bears to Metula
The inner lip of G. dentifera the only known species is thickened and is crossed by a number of prominences intermediate in character between teeth and transverse folds.
At the same time they are wholly unlike the one fold of B or soma or the two or three of Cordiera
A better comparison would be with the teeth of Cyprsea.
BUCCINIDiE.
Ectracheliza Gabb pi.
9. fig.
2.
Shell acuminately oblong spire elevated always truncated in the only species known.
Surface compressed near the suture.
Inner lip encrusted  columella sinuous short  outer lip produced in advance.
This genus seems to be allied in many of its characters to Cominella and Truncaria.
Like them it is compressed adjoining the suture.
It shows no trace of umbilicus as seen in most of the Buccinidre but its most distinctive character is in its obliquely subtruncated columalla which does not reach to the anterior end of the shell.
It differs from Truncaria in having no fold on the columella and in the outer lip not being emarginate posteriorly.
In E. truncata the apex is truncated at.
all ages shells of less than half an inch long having lost several of their apical whorls and it is rare to find more than two entire volutions in any specimen.
OLIVID.ffi.
Plochela Gabb pi.
11 fig.
5.
Shell olive shaped suture nearly obsolete as in Ancillaria  aperture linear deeply and obliquely notched at the base as in Dibaphus.
Outer lip thickened internally in the middle  inner lip incrusted and having several transverse folds of which the upper are the smallest  columnella strongly recurved at the base.
From its form and general appearance I am inclined to consider this genus as belonging to the Olividae although its details of character are strikingly like that of Dibaphus.
It seems to form in a manner a connecting link between the true Olives and the ' genus Monoptygma Lea not of Adams Sowerly etc.
The folds are placed in a reverse order to those of Milra.
I have before me specimens of Dibaphus edentulus and Mauritia Barclayi the typical species of their respective genera.
There is no possible room for doubt that D. edentulus is at least sometimes supplied with mitralike folds.
My specimen has seven or eight well developed.
Consequently Mauritia is synonymous with Dibaphics  and it seems to me that the genus should be placed l'ather with the Mitres than with the Cones.
The differences between the present genus and Dibaphus are small and it is possible that the two should be placed side by side although I strongly suspect that the resemblances are those of imitation rather than of true relationship.
Type P. crassilabra.
ETJLIMID.E.
Iopsis Gabb pi.
11. fig.
6.
Shell eulimoid polished spire elevated suture nearly obsolete apex dextral  no umbilicus  columella slightly twisted and produced into a short liplike canal not emarginated.
The ivorylike structure obsolete suture and whole general appearance of this little shell prove its close relationship to Uulima while its faintly twisted columella extended to such a degree as to produce a short though not notched canal distinguishes it from the other genera of the family.
It resembles in form a miniature Io from which circumstance the name is derived.
I have noticed in some species of true Eulima a slight tendency to expansion of the lip in advance on the columella'
margin.
I. fusiformis.
STROMAIDiE.
Orthatjlax Gabb pi.
9 figs.
3 4.
Shell rounded fusiform canal moderate straight and regularly tapering adult shell enveloped over the whole spire by an extension of the inner lip  posterior canal fissure like formed by the continued edge of the outer lip and running directly to the apex.
Outer lip apparently sharp and simple  anterior notch oblique and broad.
The discovery of this genus fills an important break in the Rostellarias uniting the true genus Rostellaria with Conrad's fossil from Calyptraphorus.
Unlike both of these genera the canal is not  styliform but robust and comparatively short and its terminal notch is formed by an almost rectangular truncation of the anterior part of the outer lip.
Like Rostellaria it has a straight posterior canal prolonged however further than is common in that genus.
The canal is similar in structure to that of Calyptraphorus being formed by a squamose plate but in the latter genus it curves over backwards behind the spire which it ascends to about half its height and then bends down to near the suture of the body whorl.
Unlike the first and like the second of its congeners it has the whole spire enveloped in a plate which might more probably be described as a posterior extension of the body whorl carrying the suture to the extreme apex.
The lines of growth ran from the top of the spire to the anterior end of the shell.
It carries none of the tubercles seen in Calyptraphorus and Tessarolax and seems unlike most of the other genera of the family to have had a simple outer lip neither thickened digitate nor notched.
0. inornatus.
Dolophanes Gabb pi.
11 fig.
7.
Shell elongate oval spire elevated with a minute imperforate umbilicus  aperture semioval inner lip acute sinuous  anterior end of the aperture terminating in a short not emarginate canal.
The first impression produced on looking at this little shell is that it is probably a Melania.
It is however undoubtedly marine and it has a grouping of characters which ally it so closely to Struthiolaria that I am convinced that it is a nearly related genus.
Its spire is very like that of many of the species of the Strombidse and in the details of its mouth it differs only from Struthiolaria in having a thinly encrusted inner lip an acute outer lip and an obsolete umbilicus instead of the thickened margins and no umbilicus of that genus.
D. melanoides.
ACT2E0NID.E.
Actonidea Gabb pi.
11 fig.
8 8 a.
Shell oval elongate  aperture narrow outer lip simple  columella slightly encrusted bearing one large transverse fold in the middle and truncated in advance.
Ornamented by revolving ribs.
This genus is an Actdeon except that it has a single large fold on the middle of the inner lip and the columella is truncated as in Achatina.
A. oryza Gabb.
BULLID.E.
Cylichnella Gabb pi.
10 fig.
2.
Shell subcylindrical spire sunken  mouth narrow behind widened or advance  columella with two folds.
This genus has the external form of Cylichna but it has two distinct folds.
The upper one is sharp and prominent like that of Actseon while the lower is more oblique and winds around the columella more like that of Cylichna.
C. bidentata.
d'Orb.
Bulla bidentata d'Orb.
La Sagra's Cuba pi.
fig.
13 16.
Utriculus bidentatus Cheinn.
Mar.
Conch. vol.
1 p. 388.
ACEPHALA.
CORBULID.E.
BoTnROCORBPLA Gabb pi.
10 fig.
3 3 a.
Shell like Corbula in every respect except that it has a deep lunular pit under the beaks penetrating and almost passing through the hinge plate.
I have carefully examined almost all of the living and many fossil species of Corbula and can find in none the slightest trace or rudiment of a lnnuli  while this shell has it deeper than I have even seen in any other form except in Here of the Lucinus.
B. viminca Guppy sp.
Corbula viminca Guppy Quart.
Journ.
Geol.
Soc.
Lond. v. 22 p. 293 pi.
18 fig.
11.
ANATINID.E.
Ne.eromya Gabb pi.
10 fig.
4 4 a 4 b.
Shell thin translucent in shape approaching Pholadomya ends closed  hinge with a prominent tooth in the right valve articulating behind a smaller similar one in the left valve an anterior and posterior lateral tooth in each valve.
Mantle margin without sinus.
This genus in its thin character and minute hinges is elosety allied to Pholadomya Thetis and Nesera but differs from all in details of the hinge.
Neeera has no cardinal tooth but in its place a cartilage pit in each valve.
It has a single posterior tooth while this genus has the anterior equally well developed.
In having corresponding teeth in both valves it differs from Thetis while its well specialized hinge and its closed ends distinguish it from Pholadomya.
JV.
quadrata Gabb.
December 3.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentyfive members present.
Joseph Willcox made the following remarks about some glacial scorings lately observed by him in St. Lawrence County N. Y.
Between the village of Rossie and Morristown on the St. Lawrence River a distance of eighteen miles the country is generally a level plateau.
The hard potsdam sandstone alternating with calciferous sandstone underlies a soil so thin that in many fields the use of the plow is impracticable and fence posts are rarely placed in the ground.
Over this territory rounded boulders of granite are scattered in great profusion  though no outcrop of this rock is visible for many miles.
The sandstone is frequently exposed to view to the extent of many yards and on its surface the glacial marks made by the boulders of granite during their passage are exhibited in great perfection.
An examination made with a pocket compass applied in three places at intervals of several miles determined the course as N. N. East w T ith little variation.
No glacial marks w r ere observed on the calciferous sandstone as this rock is disintegrated with too much facility to retain impressions of this character for a long period of time.
For a distance of thirty miles north of the St. Lawrence between that river and Rideau Lake the country is level and characterized by the absence of streams of w r ater.
The only rocks observed in position were the calciferous sandstone and limestone.
Though rounded boulders of granite w r ere abundant none of the rocks were sufficiently durable to retain the glacial marks.
On the north shore of Rideau Lake in Burgess is the remarkable locality for apatite phosphate of lime.
This mineral is found in the Laurentian rocks  generally in gneis but occasionally in limestone.
It is nearly always associated with black mica biotite.
About 100 tons per week of apatite are mined which is all shipped to Europe.
December 5. meeting of the conchological section.
Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger Director in the chair.
A communication was read from Hon.
J.
A. Lapham of Milwaukee Wis. dated November 26 and accompanied by a drawing of a very large specimen of Busy con perversum measuring 12.5 inches in length.
This shell was found in connection with ancient MoundBuilder's relics in excavating the street grades in the city of Milwaukee.
A similar shell was obtained some years ago at Fond du Lac.
The species is living on the Florida coast.
A letter was read from the Chicago Academy of Sciences dated November 30 acknowledging receipt of several hundred named species of shells presented to that Institution by the Conchological Section.
The Conservator's Annual Report was read.
See Reports of Officers and Committees of the Academ.
The officers for the ensuing year were then elected.
Director .
.
.
.
W. S. W. Ruschenberger M.I.
ViceDirector .
.
.
Geo.
W. Tryon Jr.
Recorder .
.
.
S. R. Roberts.
Treasurer .
.
.
W. L. Mactier.
Secretary .
.
.
Rev.
E. R. Beadle.
Conservator .
.
E. J. Nolan M.D.
December 10.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twentysix members present.
Jos.
Willcox made the following remarks   Having lately visited many mineral localities in Canada I desire to place them on record as many of them are not mentioned either in the Geological Report of Canada or in Dana's Mineralogy.
I was accompanied by Mr. Charles D. Nims of Philadelphia Jefferson County New York who has frequently visited Canada for the purpose of procuring mineral specimens.
At the Falls of Ottawa River at Grand Calumet Island.
Black mica phlogopite pyroxene hornblende serpentine tremolite.
The following localities are all in the Province of Ontario At Arnprior.
Calcite dog tooth spar.
Near Packenham.
Hornblende.
In Bathurst.
Pyroxene scapolite sphene apatite peristerite.
Two miles southwest of Perth.
Bronze mica phlogopite having beautiful hexagonal marks on the cleaveage planes.
Near Otty Lake in North Elmsley.
Apatite pyroxene black mica biotite zircon red spinel chondrodite.
In Burgess.
Apatite black mica biotite.
Near Bob Lake twenty miles northwest of Perth the best crystals of apatite are found.
Near the St. Lawrence River six miles southwest of Brockville large octahedral crystals of iron pyrites some of them 4 inches in diameter.
All of these minerals are well crystallized except the peristerite and chondrodite and most of them are found in splendid specimens.
I am indebted to Prof. B. Silliman for the examination of the abovementioned micas.
Bemarks on Fossils from Wyoming.
Prof. Leidy directed attention to some fossils recently received from Dr. J.
Van A. Carter of Fort Bridger Wyoming.
He characterized them as follows  1.
Paleosyops junior.
Intermediate in size to P. jxiludosus and P. humilis.
Founded on portions of a lower jaw agreeing in character with the corresponding parts of P. paludosus but smaller.
Space occupied by the last premolar and the true molars 4 inches.
Anteroposterior diameter of last premolar 8 lines of last molar 17i lines.
2.
Uintacyon edax.
A remarkable animal probably marsupial.
Indicated by the greater part of a ramus of the lower jaw resembling in its form the corresponding part in the Fox.
Number of incisors unknown.
Fang of canine indicates a tooth proportionately as large as in the latter animal.
Molar series following close upon the canine and consisting of eight teeth
First premolar with a single fang but lost.
Second premolar nearly like that in the Fox.
Third anomalous in form as a lower tooth and probably so altogether.
The crown is conical and is inserted by three fangs of which the odd one is external to the others.
The remaining teeth holding the relative proportions of those in the Fox.
Fourth premolar with a conical crown and with a thicker heel than in the latter.
The fifth premolar and the fore part of the crown of the first molar are lost.
The back of the crown of the first molar and the succeeding tooth nearly resembling those in the Fox.
The last molar is a small tooth as in the latter and is inserted by a single fang.
Space occupied by the molar series one and a quarter inches  that of the true molars is half an inch.
Breadth of first molar onefourth inch of second molar two lines  of last molar one line.
3.
Uintacyon vorax.
Apparent a larger species indicated by a lower jaw fragment containing the second molar part of the first one and the socket of the last.
Space occupied by the true molars about eight lines  breadth of second molar three lines.
4.
Chameleo pristinus.
Indicated by a lower jaw fragment containing eight teeth in a space of five lines.
In every respect it agrees in character with the corresponding part in living species of the genus.
Bemarks on Silver Ore from Colorado by Geo.
A. Konig.
I had an opportunity lately to test a silver ore from Coinload Colorado and was astonished at the beautiful crimson and flesheolored incrustation which was obtained by treating the ore with the point of the inner flame on charcoal.
The crimson was most intense in a zone immediately following the yellow incrustation of lead it went gradually through different shades of fleshcolor into the white incrustation produced by the teroxyd of antimony.
The ore was composed of Galena and antimoniferous ruby silver.
After a number of experiments with pure ruby silver from Andreasberg pure Galena and pure sulphide of antimony I found that a crimson color could only be produced by the presence of all three compounds or an alloy of silver lead and antimony  and that it appeared only just before the silver button had become nearly pure.
Now if we consider that silver alone when kept in fusion by a strong oxydizing flame deposits a brown coating in the immediate neighborhood of the button that lead produces an incrustation of plumbic oxyd which is of a dark yellow color while hot and a lighter yellow in the cold and lastly that antimony gives rise to a copious white coating at some distance from the flame of antimoni teroxyd it seems striking that the three metals together should produce a crimson incrustation.
A mechanical mixture of the three oxyds brown yellow and white cannot be supposed to bring about a crimson color.
Also the fact that only then this color appears when the silver is nearly pure is suggestive of a peculiar chemical combination formed of the oxydized metals as soon as these are brought into a certain quantitative relation.
At the same time it must be inferred that the volatility of silver is increased to a considerable amount when this quantitative relation is reached.
This latter reflection might throw perhaps some light upon the inaccurac' of the cupelling assay in certain dases where the loss of silver is larger than usually.
It seems to me of some interest to investigate into the nature of this crimsoncolored compound and I hope to be able to lay before the Academy some positive results regarding it at an early date.
The observation of crimsoncolored incrustations from silver ores containing lead and antimony is not new.
Prof. Richter mentions them in the last edition of Flattner's Probirkunst vor dem Loethrohr Leipzig 1865 page 84.
But as to the real cause there has no publication been made so far as my knowledge goes.
The death of Samuel Emlen Randolph was announced December 17.
Dr. J. L. LeConte in the chair.
Nineteen members present.
Prof.
Cope made some remarks on the Geology of Wyoming especially vvitli reference to the age of the coal series of Bitter Creek.
He said that the discovery of the Dinosaur Agathaumas sylvestris had settled the question of age concerning which there had been much difference of opinion in favor of the view that they constitute an upper member of the Cretaceous series.
In the sections made he had succeeded in tracing the line of demarcation between these and the lower beds of the Green River epoch and had found the leaf beds of the former to be immediately covered by deposits of mammalian remains with an interval of a few feet only.
In the same way the close approximation of the Evanston cretaceous coal to tertiary strata was determined by the finding of numerous mammalian and reptilian remains in the lower part of the Wahsatch beds of Hayden or even in the sandstones overlying the coal.
Here two species of Bathmodon were found corresponding with the nearly allied genus Melalophodon from the Bitter Creek locality.
So far as is yet known the Balhmodontidas are diagnostic of the Green River formation and on this and other grounds the Wahsatch beds of Evanston were regarded as belonging to it.
A further extension of the Green River formation was found at a point 400 miles westward see Proc.
Am.
Philos.
Soc July 1872 near Elko Nevada where fishes and insects occur in thin shales.
Some of the former are nearly allied to species from the fish beds of Green River.
He added that exception had been taken to his claiming the final determination of the cretaceous age of the Bitter Creek coal strata see Silliman's Journal 1872 Dec p. 489 his critics presuming that he was unacquainted with previous publications on the subject.
It was however his knowledge that previous authors had expressed either adverse or doubtful opinions respecting it that induced him to print the short preliminary notes that had appeared.
He was well aware that Messrs. King and Emmons had considered the lower part of these beds as cretaceous and the upper as tertiary see Exploration 40th Parallel III.
p. 458 on stratigraphic grounds.
Since the cretaceous was represented in different parts of the country by clays sands giauconite chalk limestone and sandstone he thought that palaeontological evidence was needed to complete the demonstration.
This had not been produced for the locality in question but the nearest point Hallville had been called Tertiary by Mr. Meek and Prof. Lesquereaux Hayden's Survey of Terrs. 1870 p. 306 had considered the fossil flora of Point of Rocks forty miles westward as of unknown age and those of Evanston as miocene.
Hayden himself is well known to regard the strata as of uncertain or transitional age.
Paheontological determinations of cretaceous age of the Bitter Oeek series were very indefinite up to the publication in question.
But first he would remark that his critic was doubtless uninformed as to the geography of Wyoming when he cited Prof. Marsh's determination of the cretaceous age of the coal of Brush Creek a locality from 150 to 200 miles distant.
So with the determinations from Weber River Coalville 200 miles and Evanston and Sulphur Creek 150 miles distant on the opposite side of the Bridger Basin.
He did not regard these as determinations affecting the age of the Bitter Creek Beds any more than they did of the Eocene coal of Osino 200 miles west of them.
The only approximations to the point were made by Mr. Meek.
In King's Survey of the 40th Parallel 1. c. 462Mr. Meek's nearest points of investigation were the shell beds of Sulphur Creek Bear River  of these he says  While I am therefore willing to admit that facts may yet be discovered that will warrant the conclusion that some of these estuary beds should be included rather in the Cretaceous than in the Tertiary it seems to me that such evidence must either come from included vertebrate remains etc.
This is not very conclusive and acknowledges in advance the importance of the determination of vertebrates from the same neighborhood Evanston and from Bitter Creek above described.
Secondly in Hayden's Survey 18T0 p. 298 the only determination of the age of coal of the Bitter Creek area is tertiary Hallville.
Thirdly in Hayden's Survey Montana etc.
1871 p. 375 Mr. Meek enumerates three species from this region Point of Rocks as cretaceous every one with question as to the determination which therefore decides little as to the age of the beds.
In the same way all his Coalville species are marked with question.
In his earliest investigation in connection with Mr. Engleman in Capt.
Simpson's Report 1860 he expressly states that the age of the Bitter Creek coal series is unknown.
Thus it seems that a knowledge of the literature of the geology of the Bitter Creek coal shows  I.
The Messrs. King and Emmons on stratigraphic evidence referred the lower part to the cretaceous and the upper to the tertiary.
That on Palreontological grounds II.
Mr. Lesquereanx regards them as tertiary III.
Mr. Meek's evidence is doubtful 1 and IV.
Dr. Hayden has believed in a transition series.
Hence it appeared to the speaker that the explorations directed by Dr. Hayden during the past season had contributed largely to our knowledge proving the existence of an interruption between the cretaceous and tertiaiy formations  less it is true than that which exists elsewhere and similar to that insisted on by Clarence King's survey in the region of Bear River and the Wahsatch country.
Prof.
Cope defined a genus of Saurodont Fishes from the Niobrara Cretaceous of Kansas under the name of Erisichthe.
He stated that it agreed with Portheus and Ichthyodectes in the absence of nutritious dental foramina on the inner face of the 1 This gentleman has stated in a letter to the writer that the Bitter Creek Beds constitute a new zone.
dentary bone and especially with Portheus in the irregular sizes of the teeth.
The crowns are however compressed and knifelike and closely similar to those of Saurocephalus.
The typical species was called Erisichthe nitida and was stated to have been discovered in the cretaceous formation of Kansas near to the Solomon River by Prof. B. F. Mudge.
The enamel of the teeth is smooth and glistening and their outline acuminate and rather elongate.
In the anterior part of the jaw are two teeth much larger than the others separated by a small tooth.
The posterior of these is much compressed while the anterior is oval in section with one angular edge.
Length of the restored skull between one and two feet.
It was added that the Portheus angulatus Cope probably belongs to the genus Erisichthe and that it differs from E. nitida in its greater size and other features.
The genus was further stated to be abundant in certain formations of the Southern States and in the English chalk.
Isolated specimens of large teeth from the latter had been referred to the genus Saurocephalus in the Poissons Fossiles which could not be distinguished from those of the genus newly described.
December 24.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
JFen members present.
December 31.
The President Dr. Ruschenberger in the chair.
Twenty members present.
The following reports were read and referred to the Publication Committee THE LIBRARIAN'S REPORT.
The Librarian respectfully reports that the number of additions to the library from January to December 1872 inclusive amounts to 1488.
Of these 250 were volumes 1230 pamphlets and parts of periodicals and 8 maps and charts  1135 were octavos 310 quartos 20 duodecimos 15 folios and 8 maps.
They were derived from the following sources  Societies 106 Editors 139 Authors 188 Wilson Fund 67 Isaac Lea 12 Imperial Botanical Garden of St. Petersburg 11 Thomas 19 Meehan 10 Chilian Government 9 Geological Survey of Tndia 9 Treasury Department 7 Publishers 7 Dr. Charles Schaffer 6 Capt.
R. II.
Wyman 6 S. S. Haldeman 5 Publication Committee 5 Dr. Finsch 5 Geological Survej r of Italy 4 New York State Library 4 F. V. Hayden 4 Minister of Public Works France 3 Department of the Interior 3 Geo.
W. Try on Jr. 2 Dr. Jos.
Leidy 2 Prof. Geo.
H. Cook 2 Jos.
Jeanes 2 Gen. C. B. Comstock 1 D. W. Dawson 1 Commissioner of Fisheries New Jersey 1 J. M. Maisch 1 F. A. Walker 1 Dr. H. C. Wood 1 Chief of Engineers U.S.A. 1 War Department 1.
Two hundred and sixtytwo were purchased.
Two volumes and fortyseven pamphlets were received through the Conchological Section and eight volumes through the Microscopical and Biological Section.
These additions were distributed to the several departments of the library as follows Journals 1035 Geology 112 General Natural History 58 Conchology 60 Botany 46 Medicine 30 Entomology 28 Physical Science 27 Ornithology 15 Mineralogy 14 Bibliography 12 Politics 12 Anaton and Physiology 10 Ichthyology 7 Helminthology 6 Voyages and Travels 6 Herpetology 4 Chemistry 4 Mammalog' 2.
During the year 157 volumes have been bound and 30 volumes are now in the hands of the binder.
Twentyeight applications have been received from members for books required b' them in the pursuit of their studies and not to be found in the library.
Twenty of these have been received and the others have been ordered.
In common with nearly all the other departments of the Academy the library is suffering from want of room.
The difficulty of properly arranging the journals and periodicals especially is becoming daily greater in consequence of the regularity with which large exchanges are received from corresponding societies at home and abroad.
In rnaity instances it has become necessary to place the older volumes of a series out of view at the back of the cases to make room for the current numbers.
It is not possible to do this however where the volumes are large and the bookcases shallow so that the necessity for additional room is becomingdaily more pressing.
All of which is respectfully submitted Edward J. Nolan Librarian.
REPORT OF THE CURATORS.
The Museum of the Academy continues in its usual condition and the more perishable departments are in a fair state of preservation.
While several remain in a state of comparative confusion others are in an advanced condition of arrangement.
The conchological cabinet which now numbers upwards of 21000 species is reported to have nearly onehalf of the collection systematically arranged and properly labelled.
Mr. James A. Ogden one of the members of the ornithological committee informs us that during the past year the entire collection of birds has been carefully examined and those which were found infested were submitted to the heating process.
He also assures us that the collection is now in good order.
Further several families have been arranged and about 1400 specimens labelled.
Several hundred duplicate bird skins were presented to the Chicago Academy of Sciences according to a special vote of our Academy.
The donations and additions to the collections and Museum of the Academy during the year are as follows Mammals.
The skeleton of a Whale Megaptera be.llicosa Cope from St. Barts W. I. was presented by Wm.
S. Vaux and I. Lea.
Dr. Ruschenberger presented a skull a skeleton and a mounted skin of a Japan Dog.
Dr. II.
Rand presented four skulls of Monkeys and Dr. H. C. Chapman the skull of a very old Horse.
Several mammal skins from the West Coast were presented by George Davidson.
Birds.
Mr. James A. Ogden of the ornithological committee submits to us the following list of donations Skins of Haliaet'us leucocephalus.
two Mormon cirrJiata two Hsematopus niger H. palliatus and Mergulus Cassinii from the West Coast of North America presented by George Davidson.
Ardea ludoviciana Larus argentatas and Mergulus alle from North Carolina presented by Dr. II.
C. Yarrow U.S.A. Pelecanus fuscus and two Querquedula discors from St. Martins W. I. presented by Dr. R. E. Van Riggersma.
Eight species of birds from San Domingo presented by Wm.
M. Gabb.
An albino Pipilo erythrophthalmus from Georgia presented by Bayard King.
Three skins of Sturhus vulgaris two Lanius rufus Cinclus aquaticus two Sitla europsea Chrysornitris pinus Mecistura caadata Parus atee Iluscicapa griseola Passer' montana Fringilla montifringilla F. ccelebs Coccothraustes vulgaris three Erythraca familiaris Regains cristalus from Switzerland and Troglodytes sedon from this State.
Presented by the ornithological committee.
Ten nests with eggs from Illinois presented by Mrs. Wm.
Turner.
Reptiles and Fishes.
Small collections of reptiles were presented as follows From Central America by George Davidson ten species from Florida by T. J. Kochersperger  and from W r oming Territory by Dr. Leidy.
A collection of reptiles and fishes from St. Domingo was presented by Wm.
M. Gabb.
A flying fish Exocetus obtusirostris from off the Cape de Yerd Island was presented by Dr. A. L. Gihon U.S.A. One species of fish from the Raritan River was presented by A. H. Smith and one from Michigan by J. Y. Lemoyne.
Osteological and Ethnological Specimens.A male and female skeleton of Indians from a mound on San Miguel Island the most western of the St. Barbara Islands were presented by George Davidson.
An Indian skull together with fragments of potteiy and stone implements from the vicinity of a shell mound at Cedar Keys Florida were presented by H. J. Smith.
An Indian skull from a mound near Melton Indiana was presented by Clarence S. Bement.
A collection of flint chips from Crow Creek Wyoming was presented by E. L. Berthoud and an antique pestle from Gloucester N. J. by Joseph S. Lodge.
Invertebrates.
The special donations and additions to the conchological cabinet will be given in the Report of the Conservator of the Conchological Section.
A collection from Santa Barbara California was presented by George Davidson.
A collection of crustaceans corals gorgonias and sponges from St. Domingo by William M. Gabb.
A collection of shells starfishes and corals from North Carolina by Dr. H. C. Yarrow U.S.A. Several Cirrhipeds and Ilolothurians from the Isle of Shoals by Mrs. C. Pennock.
A huge Lobster from our coast by G. W. Bugbee.
A Scorpion and a Mygale from Florida by T. J. Kochersperger  and specimens of the seventeen year Locust by S. L. McAllister.
Fossils.
A large collection of remains of mammals and reptiles from the Bridger Tertiary formation of Wyoming Territory has been presented by Dr. J.
Van A. Carter and Dr. Joseph K. Corson U.S.A.
Among these are the tpes of the species described or noticed by the writer in the present volume of the Proceedings.
The fine specimen of a Turtle from the same locality described under the name of Baptemys wyomingensis has likewise been obtained for the Academy through exchange.
A nearly complete plastron of the Testudo Corsoni from the same locality was presented hy Mrs. Dr. J.
Van A. Carter.
A fine dorsal shield of Trionyx uintaensis was likewise presented by Major Robert S. La Motte commander at Fort Bridger.
Another rich collection of fossils presented to the Academy during this year consists of 350 species of mollusks from Santa Domingo received from our generous fellowmember and able geologist William M. Gabb on condition that he shall have the privilege of withdrawing the specimens for study if neeessaiy.
Mr. Gabb has also presented seven species of fossil shark teeth from St. Domingo a mass of stalagmite with shells from the cave of San Lorenzo St. Domingo  and several fossil footprints in redshale from the valley of the Little Schuylkill River.
The following collections were also presented  Twentytwo species of fossil mollusks corals and crinoids from the carboniferous limestone of England a vertebra of Ichthyosaurus and six do.
of Plesioasaurus from the Lias of England by Clarence S. Bement.
Dicotyledinous leaves in red sandstone from the cretaceous formation near Fort Darker Kansas from Dr. B. E. Fryer U.S.A. Freshwater shells from Crow Creek Wyoming from E. L. Berthoud.
Jaw fragment of Eschrichtius Davidsonii Cope from San Diego Cal. from George Davidson.
Two vertebrae of Macrosaurus a tooth and three coossified vertebra
of Mosasaurus and a fragment of a large limb bone from the marl of Woodstown N. J. from S. Shortledge of Kennett Square Chester Count Penn.
Two species of fossil fishes from Verona Daly from Mr. Harrison.
In addition Dr. Thomas X. Penrose U.S.IS 1 . presented a large slab of stone with a section of an Orthoceratite mounted as a screen and wellillustrating the chambered arrangement of the shell.
Plants.
Mr. Thomas Meehan presented two hundred species of plants from Colorado and the fruit of Larix leptolejiis of Japan.
Dr. George Englemann of St. Louis presented seven species of Lemna from the vicinity of Mexico.
Mr. John B.
King presented a small collection of Cuban mosses.
Dr. Leidy presented a collection of plants from Wyoming.
Several specimens were presented by C. W. Zuremba and T. H. Streets.
Ilinerals.
The following specimens were presented Realgar and euchroite from Hungary fluor Hartz erythrite Saxon' calcite Cornwall E. willemite jeffersonite and two calamines Franklin N. J. Allanite Orange Co. and three brown tourmalines St. Lawrence County X. Y.  cuprite Cornwall E. from Clarence S. Bement.
A fine large apophyllite with stilbite from Poonah Hindostan from Win.
S. Vaux.
A fine large amethyst with fluor from Thunder Bay L. S. from E. W. Clark Phlogopite scapolite hornblende New York  cummingtonite and zoisite Ducktown Polk County Tenn. massive chrysolite and corundum Franklin Macon County N. C from Joseph Willcox.
A fine large crystallized jeffersonite from Franklin N. J. from Joseph Willcox and S. B. Howell.
Zincite Franklin and hornblende Andover N. J. from S. B. Howell.
Group of muscovite crystals from Chester Count' from I. Lea.
Corundum with talcose schist from L T nionville Chester County from George Ball.
Stilbite from Frankford from John Bartlet.
Floatstone from Oregon from E. Goldsmith.
Two cannel coals from West Virginia from B. S. Lyman.
By purchase and exchange there were also obtained ruby and sapphire corundum from Macon County N. C corundum with chlorite crystallized red copper and bournonite.
The Curators regret to state that during the past year several valuable minerals have been stolen from the Museum.
It ma 7 be added that in consequence of the present great extent of the latter and the want of proper labelling and numbering with a catalogue of the collections we are unable in many instances to discover depredations and their extent.
It is to be hoped that in a short time the Academy will feel the importance of appointing a paid curator and assistants whose duty it shall be as early as possible to put the Museum in complete order of arrangement to number all its specimens and prepare a cat alogue of the same.
Respectfully submitted by Joseph Leidy Chairman of Curators.
REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL COMMITTEE.
To the President and Members of the Academy The Committee on Botany respectfully report that during the year good collections of plants have been contributed b r Dr. Gibbons from California T. Meehan from Colorado and Western Kansas Prof. Davidson from California Dr. Leidy from the Uinta Mountains and Professor Asa Gray a large package chiefly of tropical rubiaceas.
The American plants have added largely to the value of the herbarium in regard to botanical geography and by furnishing specimens in varying conditions of growth besides in a few cases adding to the number of species in the already pretty full collection.
The Committee are desirous of bringing the general herbarium nearer completeness.
In order the better to ascertain its deficiencies the work of preparing a catalogue of species has been commenced.
Rough lists have been prepared of the first twentythree volumes serving as indices to each volume temporarily and it is hoped that the whole one hundred and twentyseven volumes will be thus far finished by the next year.
Thomas Meehan for the Committee.
RECORDING SECRETARY'S REPORT.
The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the year ending November 30th 1812 there have been elected thirtynine members and four correspondents.
The announcement has been made of the death of the following members and correspondents Fourteen members namely Wm.
W. Gerhard M.D. Dr.
Win.
Stimpson John Farnum Maj. Sydney S. Lyon John G. Moore T. f Clarkson Taylor Prof. Edward Parrish Mr. Chas.
Wilson Peale Mr. James II.
Orne Prof. John F. Frazer Dr. Mifflin Wister Constant Guillou Maj. Gen. G. G. Meade U.S.A. and S. Emlen Randolph.
One correspondent namely Sir Roderick J. Murchison.
Two resignations of membership have been accepted.
The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in the Proceedings of the Academy during the year has been twentyseven as follows  F. B. Meek 1 E. D. Cope 3 O. Finsch 1 Thomas Meehan 2 E. L. Berthond 1 Geo.
W. Tryon Jr 7 T. Hale Streets M.D 1 Thomas Bland and W. G. Binney .
1 John G. Cooper 1 Isaac Lea LL.D 1 T. A. Conrad 2 
Theo.
Gill M.D 1 Elliott Coues 2 I Wm.
M. Gabb 3 Five papers ordered to be published in medical journals as follows  Joseph Leidy M.D 1 James Tyson M.D 1 Albert Fricke M.D 1 Jos.
G. Richardson M.D.
... 2 All of which is respectfully submitted Samuel B. Howell Recording Secretary.
REPORT OF RECORDER OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL SECTION.
Read before the Section December 2d 1872 and directed to be forwarded to the Academy as the Report of the Section for the current year.
The closing business  r ear of 1872 leaves our Biological and Microscopical Section in a much more healthy and vigorous condition than did its immediate predecessor.
In spite of the gloomy forebodings which twelvemonths ago threatened our department with complete and speedy extinction we can this evening look back to a better record of real scientific work accomplished during the past 3 r ear than even warm friends of a Microscopical society dared at one time to hope was within the bounds of possibilit.
When we remember that our eminently honorable and useful parent Academy of the Natural Sciences Avith her far larger membership and wider claims upon the scientific world for support has on a few untoward occasions even found it difficult to convene the quorum requisite to transact her ordinary business we may well feel encouraged to persevere in thus meeting together although the paucity of our number sometimes might otherwise be enough to dishearten the most earnest seeker after truth among us.
Prominent in the list of triumphs during the past year stands of course our Exhibition of microscopes and microscopical apparatus given in Horticultural Hall to the American Medical Association on the evening of May 1th and witnessed with warmly expressed satisfaction not only by the members of the National Convention and their ladies but also b' hundreds of the inhabitants of Philadelphia whose awakening interest in the wonders and beauties of microscopy as well as their enjoyment of the results attained by microscopic investigation formed a gratifyingfeature of the occasion.
At this exhibition one hundred and six instruments adjusted to a classified collection of objects illustrating most of the different applications of the higher magnifying powers to researches in Medicine Natural History Botany Chemistry etc. were arranged upon our tables.
The display of microscopes is said to have been the largest ever gathered together for a similar reception in America and it excited much admiration among both visitors and citizens.
There is no doubt that such demonstrations of downright facts in regard to the advancement of our knowledge of nature either with or without the aid of the microscope will lead to a more and more just appreciation of the inestimable value an Academy for the study of the natural sciences has to the community at large and thus contribute in some measure towards creating that much needed disposition among merchants and business men to foster such an institution by subscribing the comparatively trivial amount of pecuniary endowment necessary for its successful operation and support.
Among the more or less elaborated papers and oral communications presented before the section during the past year may be enumerated Dr. Henry C. Chapman's remarks upon Embryology profusely illustrated by charts and drawings and his comments this evening upon the Polycystina etc.
 Dr. Albert Fricke's valuable contribution to the medical history of our recent Equine epidemic Dr. J. H. McQuillen's description of Salivary calculus and Oral Microzoa Dr. Isaac Norris' paper on the History and value of Polarized light as applied to the microscope Dr. J. Gr.
Hunt's dissertation on the Preparation and preservation of Tissues Mr. Joseph Zentmayer's discourse upon Erectors and a new Erecting prism Dr Jas.
Tyson's article on Urinary microscopy and his interesting oral communication upon Practical Histology in Germany and Dr. Jos.
G. Richardson's papers on Certain Human Parasitic Fungi and their relations to disease and upon a new method of preserving Tumors and some urinary deposits during transportation.
Discussions upon the various subjects thus brought under the consideration of the members have been remarkable for their unusually practical and useful character indeed so eminent have they appeared in this respect that reports of our proceedings have always been warmly welcomed by the Editors of The Philadelphia Medical Times in whose interesting columns they as well as several of the papers read before the Section have from time to time been published.
All of which is respectfully submitted Jos.
G. Richardson Recorder.
REPORT OF CONSERVATOR OF CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION.
The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that the donations to the Cabinet during the past year have been as follows Beadle Rev.
E. R. Helix Schrammi from St. Martins W. I.
Bland Thos.
Bulimus aureolas from West Indies.
Conrad T. A. Ancylus from Trenton N. J. and twentyseven species of Unionidse from the vicinity of Raleigh N. C determined for the Section hy Mr. Lea.
Dall W. H. Nine species of Acmaea types of new species.
Gabb Wm.
M. Small collection of terrestrial and marine mollusca from St. Domingo.
Jewett Col. E. Two species from Charlotte Harbor Fla. Newcomb W. Carelia extincta n. s. from Sandwich Islands.
Pennock Mrs. Caroline.
E2ocases of Fusus Islandicus.
Purpura lapillus from Isle of Shoals off Portsmouth N. H. Pease W. Harper.
Six species of marine mollusca from Central Pacific Ocean types.
Summichrast Dr.
Species of Cylindrella from near Tehuantepec.
Yarrow Dr. H. C. A small collection of marine shells from Fort Macon N. C. Fortyfour species of West Indian Helices new to the collection were purchased from Mr. Thos.
Bland.
Thirtyeight species not heretofore in the collection of the Academy from the Island of Mauritius were presented by the following gentlemen Win.
S. Vaux 13 species Isaac Lea 5 Wm.
M. Gabb 5 Beuj.
Smith Lyman 4 S. R. Roberts 2 Chas.
F. Parker 5 and Geo.
W. Tryon Jr. 4.
The Committee on the arrangement of the Collection have been working industriously and report that during the year the arrangement of the Land and Freshwater shells has been completed as well as that of the JSferites A T eietinas Harps Astartes Cardilas and a portion of the Veneridse.
The amount of work done exceeds that of any previous year as the following statement will show Number of species determined during 1872 2862  number of labels written 4898  number of specimens cleaned and mounted 19932.
The total number of species determined by the Committee to date is 6893 total number of labels written 12067 total number of specimens mounted 40873.
Our system of exchange has been during the past year discontinued in consequence of the great and increasing difficulty of obtaining desiderata except by purchase.
This is owing to the nearly complete condition of many portions of the collection.
It may be mentioned as an illustration of this fact that out of 913 species recently received for examination from the Island of Mauritius but thirtyeight species reported above could be found new to the collection.
All of which is respectftuTy submitted Edward J. Nolan Conservator.
At an adjourned meeting held January 7 1873 the following were elected members  Chas.
Macalester Wm.
B. Bement Richard H. Townsend M.D. Wm.
Logan Fox Dr. Chas.
A. Siegfried U.S.N.. and Mrs. Caroline Pennock.
Jabez Hogg F.L.S. was elected a Correspondent.
292 The election of Officers for the year 1873 was held in accordance with the ByLaws with the following result President .
.
.
W. S. W. Ruschenberger M.D.
VicePresidents .
.
Wm S. Vaux Jos.
Carson M.D.
Recording Secretary .
Samuel B. Howell M.D.
Corresponding Secretary Edward D. Cope.
Librarian Treasurer Curators .
Council Publication Committee Edward J. Nolan M.D.
Wm.
C. Hensze'.
Jos.
Leidy M.D. Wm.
S. Vaux Geo.
W. Try on Jr. Edward D. Cope.
Isaac Lea Robt.
Bridges M.D. Edward S. Whelen Isaac Hays M.D.
Jos.
Leidy M.D. Wm.
S. Vaux Geo.
W. Try on Jr. Edward J. Nolan M.D. W. S. W. Ruschenberger M.D.
