



PROCEEDINGS 



OP THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1874. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. "W. Trton, Jr., 



AVm. S. Vaux, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. Ruschenbergek, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1874. 




Hall of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, February 4, 1875. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of tlie Proceedings for 1874 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : 



Pages 9 to 34 . ... . April 28, 1874. 



25 to 72 . . . . May 19, 1874. 



73 to 104 . . . . August 18, 1874. 



10.") to 136 . . . . September 29, 1874. 



137 to 152 . . . . October 20, 1874. 



153 to 200 . . . . December 15, 1874. 



SAMUEL B. HOWELL, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



Pages 201 to 216 

 " 217 to 232 



5, 1875. 



2, 1875. 



. January 

 . February 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



puii.AnKi.PHiA : 



C O I, I, I .V S , P R I N T IC R . 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Binney, W. G. On the Anatomy and Lingual Dentition of Ariolimax 



and other Pulmonata 33 



Conrad, T. A. Remarks on the Tertiary Clay of the Upper Amazon, 



with descriptions of new Shells 25 



Description of two new Fossil Shells of the Upper Amazon 83 



Cope, E. D. Description of some species of Reptiles obtained by Dr. 

 John F. Bransford, Assistant Surgeon United States Navy, while 



attached to the Nicaragnan Surveying Expedition in 1873 64 



On some Batrachia and Nematognathi brought from the Upper 



Amazon by Prof. Orton 120 



Notes on the Santa Fe Marls, and some of the contained Vertebrate 



Fossils 147 



Cones, E. Synopsis of the Muridae of North America 173 



Gentry, T. G. On Habits of some American Species of Birds 96 



Grote, A. R. New species of North American Noctuidse 197 



Herrick, H. Description of a new species of Helminthophaga 220 



Lewis, J. Description of a new species of Helix 118 



On a new variety of Helix 162 



I S '^ i 1 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 

 1874. 



January 6, 1874. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt remarked that the structure of the Schizaea 

 piisilla differed widely from that of our other indigenous schiza- 

 ceous ferns, viz., Lygodium palmatum^ and its morphological ele- 

 ments are unlike those of our ferns in general. The barren frond 

 of Schizeea pusilla is marked on its epidermal surface with a 

 double line of stomata, and these organs extend the entire length 

 of the frond. The cells which make up the interior of this delicate 

 fern are cylindrical and vary in size, but their distinctive cha- 

 racters lie in minute projections or outgrowths from all sides of 

 the cells, and these projections meet and are articulated with cor- 

 responding outgrowth from adjoining cells, so that the cells of 

 Schizaea have penetrating between them in every direction inter- 

 cellular spaces and channels of remarkable t^egularify and beauty, 

 and so characteristic is this plan of cell-union that the botanist 

 need find no difficulty in identifying the smallest fragment of the 

 plant. This morphological peculiarity has not been noticed 

 before. 



Dimorj^hous Floivers in Passiflora. Mr. Thomas Meehan ex- 

 hibited some flowers of Passiflora qiiadrangularis, in which some 

 of them had the pistils almost wanting, while the flowers were 



2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



perfect in all other particulars. A large plant running along a 

 rafter in his greenhouse, and producing hundreds of flowers, bore 

 these dimorphous ones in about equal proportions. He said it 

 was well known that in cultivation this plant never produced 

 fruit unless by artificial cross-impregnation, but he thought the 

 tendency to abort in the female flowers, and thus approach the 

 classes which were in structure as well as practically uni-sexual, 

 had not been noticed before. There was a species in New Zea- 

 land, however, known to be monoecious, and it might be just pos- 

 sible tiiat the Fassijloraceee, with mostl}^ hermaphrodite flowers, 

 were following in the wake of the allied Gucurbitacese, in which 

 a complete separation of the sexes was the rule. 



January 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



Remarks on Hydi'a. Prof. Leidy remarked that two species 

 of Hydi^a were common in the neighborhood of Philadelphia. 

 One is of a light brownish hue and is found on the under side of 

 stones and on aquatic plants in the Delaware and Schuylkill rivers, 

 and in ditches communicating with the same. Preserved in an 

 aquarium, after some days the animals will often elongate the 

 tentacula for several inches in length. The green Hydra is found 

 in ponds and springs attached to aquatic plants. It has from six 

 to eight tentacles, which never elongate to the extent they do in 

 the brown Hydra. In winter the animal is frequently observed 

 with the male organs developed just below the head as a mamma- 

 like process on each side of the bod}'. He had not been able to 

 satisfy himself that these Hydrse were different from H. fusca and 

 H. viridis of Europe. Prof. Agassiz had indicated similar colored 

 forms in Massachusetts and Connecticut, under the names of H 

 carnea and H. gracilis. Of the former he remarks that it has 

 very short tentacles, and if this is correct under all circumstances, 

 it must be difterent from our brown Hydra, which can elongate its 

 arms for three inches or more. 



January 20. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Prof. E. D. Cope described some species of extinct tortoises 

 from certain formations of Northeastern Colorado, which had 

 been previously found in the Fort Union or lignite beds of the 

 Missouri river region by Dr. Ha^^den. He had in 1868 recognized 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 11 



the age of the latter as cretaceous, contrary to the opinion ex- 

 pressed by some geologists, that the formation both in Dakota and 

 Colorado is tertiary. 



Mr. Cope incidentally mentioned the recent discovery of remains 

 of Dinosaurs in the lignite beds of Colorado, which Avere thus proved 

 to belong to the cretaceous period, and not tertiary, as the evi- 

 dence of the fossil plants had been interpreted by Mr. Lesquereux 

 and others. 



Dr. LeConte expressed his great satisfaction at the complete 

 confirmation, by his friend Mr. Cope, of the statements he made 

 several 3^ears ago,* concerning the cretaceous age of the lignites at 

 the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains, from near Denver 

 southwards into New Mexico. Dr. LeConte had discussed the 

 subject on page 19, and more fully on Go and 66 of his report. 

 He had, it is true, expressed on page 65 a suspicion that the lig- 

 nites of the Missouri basin might be of miocene age, but it would 

 be seen by the narrative part of the report that Di\ LeConte had 

 not examined these beds personally, and their tertiary age was 

 assumed only in deference to the very strong!}' expressed opinion 

 of Dr. Hayden, "the pioneer and most successful explorer 

 of the Missouri basin" (Report, page 53), who was the first, 

 as he has been the most persistent advocate of this view. 

 While admitting the similarity of the flora of these lignites to 

 those of known tertiary localities, he had insisted on the greater 

 value of the stratigraphical and zoological evidence by which they 

 were shown to be cretaceous. He referred Mr. Cope to this report, 

 that he might see how perfectly these recent discoveries accorded 

 with the previously expressed views, which Mr. Cope had, perhaps 

 inadvertently, omitted to mention. 



Mr. Cope replied that he was quite familiar with the report of 

 Dr. LeConte, but did not consider stratigraphical evidence of 

 value as compared with palseontological in this instance, because 

 the beds display continuity of deposit from cretaceous to tertiary 

 (Hayden), while the fauna and flora exhibit an interruption. 



Prof. Frazer remarked that in this opinion Mr. Cope differed 

 from geologists generally, who regarded the weight of palaeonto- 

 logical evidence as based entirely on our previous knowledge of 

 stratigraphical relations, and where the field was so new as our 

 Western territories, the evidences of palaeontology as establishing 

 synchronism with the geological ages of Europe must be received 

 with great caution. 



' Notes ou the Geology of the Survey for the Extension of the Union 

 Pacific Railway, Eastern Division. Philadelphia, Feb. 1867. 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



January 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Henry A. Muhlenberg, of Reading, Pa., George De B. Keim, 

 Henry Tagg, Chas. S. Whelen, and Charles W. Macfarlane, were 

 elected members. 



Jas. Stevenson, U. S. Geol. Surv., was elected a Correspondent. 



Prof. Cope made some observations on the age of the lignite 

 and other corresponding formations of the West, and especially 

 its supposed equivalent in Northern Colorado. He referred to his 

 determination of the Upper Missouri formation as cretaceous in 

 1868 ; of the Wyoming Bitter Creek series as of the same age in 

 1872. He now added the Colorado strata to the same, on the 

 evidence of vertebrate remains procured by himself during the 

 past season, in connection with the United States Geological 

 Survey under Dr. P. V. Hayden. These remains consisted of 

 DinoHauria of three species, tortoises of five, and a single species 

 of crocodile. Five of the genera were diagnostic. The Dinosauria 

 were referred to the old genus Hadrosaiirus and the new genera 

 Polyonax and Cionodon. The Gionodon arctatus was a large 

 herbivorous saurian, allied to Hadrosaurus, but with a most com- 

 plex and singular type of dentition ; the size that of a horse. The 

 other two species are much larger. 



He also pointed out that the tortoises are identical with species 

 discovered b}' Dr. Hayden in the Fort Union formation of Dakota. 

 He identified the Colorado beds with this group, and believed that 

 they are therefore of cretaceous age, stating that it was the first 

 time such identification had been made. 



Prof. Cope then discussed the age of the coal and lignite forma- 

 tions west of the Missouri River, and stated that Dr. Hayden had 

 divided them into several epochs, viz., the Placer Mountain (New 

 Mexico) ; Canon City (Colorado) ; Fort Union (Dakota) ; and 

 Bear River (W3'oming) ; and that Mr. Meek and himself liad re- 

 garded the Bitter Creek series as distinct from the others. He 

 stated that the stratigraphers and vegetable palaeontologists had 

 regarded all these beds as tertiary, but he believed that the animal 

 and especially the vertebrate pala^ontolog}' required their reference 

 to the cretaceous period. He observed that Mr. Meek had pointed 

 out the cretaceous age of the Bear River beds. LeConte had in- 

 sisted on the same reference for the Caiion City basin. Mr. King 

 and himself had determined that the Bitter Creek coal was creta- 

 ceous, and he had asserted that the Fort Union epoch belonged to 

 the same division of geologic time, in Dakota in 1869, and for 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



Colorado at the last meeting of the Academy, although LeConte 

 and others had regarded them as probably miocene.' lie stated, 

 moreover, that the evidence from palaeontology was discrepant, 

 and that it must be conceded that a tertiary flora was contempo- 

 rary with a cretaceous fauna. lie quoted Dr. Hayden as having 

 shown that there was no phj'^sical interruption in the series of 

 deposits above enumerated, and that the incongruity in the palae- 

 ontology is to be regarded as e-vidence that no extinction or re- 

 creation of a general character had taken place during this time; 

 that the apparent interruption in the vertebrate life in the dis- 

 appearance of large land saurians and appearance of land mam- 

 malia is due to the irruption of the latter by migration probably 

 from the south. 



February 3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



Dr. Chapman exhibited a dissection of 

 one of the hind legs of a muskrat, Fiber 

 zibethicus. The tendons of the tibialis 

 anticus (a), extensor proprius hallucis (6), 

 and extensor longus digitorum (c), pass 

 down a groove in the tibia and under a 

 little process of bone {d). The extensor 

 longus digitorum is held down by an 

 additional process {e). This arrangement 

 seems to quicken the extension of the foot, 

 and is of use apparently to the animal in 

 swimming. 



Remarks on Protozoa. Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that while it was exceptional to 

 find the same species of the higher sub- 

 kingdoms in the difierent parts of the 

 world, it appeared to be the rule that 

 most species of Protozoa were found everywhere under the same 

 conditions. A large number of our fresh-water forms he had 

 recognized as the same as those described by European authors. 

 A less number of species are pi'obably peculiar to every region. 

 Among our fresh-water Ehizopods he had observed not only the 

 genera Ainceba, Arcella, Diffiugia, Euglypha, Trinema, Lagynis, 

 ActinophrySy etc., but also most of the species of these as indi- 

 cated by European naturalists. 



1 LeConte, Notes on Geol, Pacific R. R. Co., 1868, p. 65. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEiMY OF 



Of the genus Arcdla^ A. vulgaris and A. dentata, with their 

 varieties, are common with us. In the genus Difflugia the lilce- 

 ness of our species to those of Europe is strilcing. Besides D. 

 2)roteiformis, D. acuminata^ D. comjji-essa, D. pyriforini.^, D. 

 aculeata, etc., he had observed the beautiful form described by the 

 English naturalist. Dr. Wallich, under the name of D. corona. 

 The shell of this species resembles a Roman helmet, with 

 from five to seven spines, and it has the mouth notched with 

 twelve serrations. A comparatively large species observed may 

 be peculiar, though future investigation may prove it to be only a 

 variety of 1). lageniformis. The shell has the form of an ancient 

 amphora, without the handles, and it measures the fourth of a 

 line in length. With its delicate pseudopods of varied form, 

 and sometimes extending far bej^ond the length of the shell, it 

 appears as a microscopic vase of phantom plants. 



Among Amoeba he had observed one which he suspected to be 

 the same as A. princeps of Ehrenberg, but it was twice the size 

 given by this author. It was remarkable for its activity and 

 wonderful changes of form. At first globular, the next moment 

 pseudopods appear like a multitude of dewdrops all over the sur- 

 face. A few of these stream forth and widen in their course, 

 while others disappear. The animal will then extend itself and 

 appear like a branching coral. At one moment it will enter and 

 traverse the interstices of a mass of mud and sand, and then 

 emerge without an adherent particle. Detached and floating it 

 will appear like a long-rayed star. At times it assumes the most 

 grotesque forms that of a human head with a rapidly growing 

 nose ; the outline of an elk with the antlers extending, or a leg 

 elongating at the expense of the body. The species is common 

 in the vicinity of Philadelphia. First observed in the neighbor- 

 hood of Swarthraore College, it was also found in the ditclies of 

 the Neck below the city. The animal contained a multitude of 

 minute particles of ellipsoidal form which reminded him of the 

 discoliths of the Bathybins of Prof. Huxley. 



It is an interesting question whether our fresh-water protozoa 

 have reached us from the same sources as those of Europe and 

 other remote countries. If derived from the same sources they 

 were probably infused in the waters of the different continents at 

 an early age when the latter were not separated by ocean barriers. 

 If thus early infused we have a remarkable instance of a multi- 

 tude of specific forms retaining their identity through a long- 

 period of time. Such a view might appear to oppose the 

 doctrine of evolution, but not justly so, for the simplest forms 

 would be the slowest or least likely to vary, while the most com- 

 plex, from their extended relationships, would be most liable to 

 variation. Perhaps, however, the simplest forms of life, of the 

 same species, may have originated independently of one another, 

 not only in different places, but also at difl'erent times, and may 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



yet continue to do so. While the highest forms of life may have 

 been slowly evolved from the simplest forms of the remotest age, 

 eqnalh' simple forms may have started into existence at all times 

 down "to the present period. From the later original forms new 

 ones may have been evolved to speed towards the same goal as 

 those which preceded them. 



February 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenburger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 

 The death of Prof. William Procter was announced. 



February 11. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



On the Mode of Groioth of Desmids. Prof Leidy made some 

 remarks on the mode of reproduction and growth of the Desmids. 

 In illustration he described a common species of Docidium or 

 Pleurotseyiium. This consists of a long C3^1indroid cell constricted 

 at the middle and slightl}' expanded each side of the constriction. 

 When the plant is about to duplicate itself, the cell-wall divides 

 transversely at the constriction. From the open end of each half 

 cell there protrudes a colorless mass of protoplasm defined by the 

 primordial utricle. The protrusions of the half-cells adhere to- 

 gether and continue to grow. The bands of endochrome now ex- 

 tend into the protrusions and subsequently keep pace with their 

 growth. The protrusions continue to grow until they acquire the 

 length tyid form of the half-cells from which they started. The 

 exterior of the new half-cells thus produced hardens or becomes 

 a cell-wall like that of the parent half-cells. In this condition 

 two individuals of Docidium are frequently observed before sepa- 

 ration. During the growth of the new half-cells the circulation 

 of granules in the colorless protoplasm is quite active. In a 

 species of Docidium \\ mm. long by ^^ mm. broad, the growth of 

 the new half-cells was observed to be at the rate of about ^ mm. 

 In an hour. 




16 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



February 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



The death of Col. Jas. Greer was announced. 



There not being a sufficient number of members present for an 

 election, the meeting adjourned until March 3d, when the follow- 

 ing were elected members : John B. Pease, Gen. Isaac J. Wistar, 

 Gen. Wm. Tilley, Wm. M. Bowron, John T. Sharpless, M.D., 

 Samuel J. Reeve, and John F. Weightman, M.D. 



The following standing committees were elected for 1874 : 



Anthropology. Radiata. 



J. Aitken Meigs, Geo. H. Horn, 



Henry S. Schell, J. G. Hunt, 



J. F. Richardson, R. S. Kenderdine, 



E. Goldsmith. Samuel B. Howell. 



Comparative Anatomy. 

 Harrison Allen, 

 J. McQuillan, 

 Jos. Leidy, 

 Henry C. Chapman. 



Ornithology. 



Bernard A. Hoopes, 

 Edwin Sheppard, 

 Theo. L. Harrison, 

 Jas. A. Ogden, 

 John Krider. 



Articulata. 



Geo. H. Horn, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 T. Hale Streets, 

 John L. LeConte. 



Stratigraphic Geology. 

 Jos. P. Lesle^'^, 

 P. Y. Hay den, 

 Franklin Piatt. 



Vertebrate Paleontology. 

 Jos. Leidy, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen. 



Mineralogy. 



Wm. S. Yaux, 

 E. Goldsmith, 

 Jos. Wilcox, 

 C. S. Benient, 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



n 



Botany. 



Thos. Meehan, 

 Rachel Bodley, 

 Isaac Burk, 

 John H. Redfield. 



Mammalogy. 



Harrison Allen, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Henry C. Chapman, 



U. Smith. 



Ichthyology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Thaddeus Norris, 

 J. H. Redfield, 

 Chas. F. Parker. 



Herpetology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 Samuel B. Howell, 

 Chas. F. Parker. 



Physics. 



Robert E. Rogers, 

 J. G. Hunt, 

 Robert Bridges, 

 J. H. McQuillan, 

 Alex. Wilcox. 



Invertebrate Paleontology. 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 H. C. Wood, Jr., 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr., 

 Geo. A. Koenig. 



Chemistry. 



F. A. Genth, 

 Robert Bridges, 

 E. Goldsmith, 

 Samuel B. Howell. 



Instruction and Lectures. 

 Hector Tyndale, 

 Robert S. Kenderdine, 

 Wm. S. Halsey, 

 J. Aitken Meigs, 

 W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 



Library. 



Jos. Leidy, 



Chas. F. Parker, 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, 



J, G. Richardson. 



March 3. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Remarks on the Tertiary Clay of the Upper Amazon, with 

 descriptions of new shells." By T. A. Conrad. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Extract of a Letter relating to Ilammalmn Fossils in Califor- 

 nia Prof. Leidy read an extract from a letter recently received 

 from Dr. Lorenzo G. Yates, of Centreville, Alameda Count}', 

 California, as follows : 



Yours of the 29th came to hand, and also a copy of your work, 

 " Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Western 

 Territories," for which accept my thanks. Prof. E. O. Hovey's 

 statement in relation to the localities of some of the fossils, page 

 229, of the " Contributions," is incorrect. I discovered all the 

 fossils in a gravel deposit, which Avas evidently an old river 

 channel, in Livermore Valle}^, not from a " wash in the side of a 

 hill." 



The Bos latifrons, figs. 6, 7, plate xxviii. ; the Canis indianensis, 

 fig. 2, pi. xxxi. ; the Felis imperialis, fig. 3, pi. xxxi. ; and the 

 Auchenia hesterna, figs. 1-3, pi. xxxvii., together with the teeth 

 and bones of Elephas americanus, Equus, and the other bones 

 which I could not identify, were all discovered by me in that lo- 

 calit}^ 



Accompanying the letter was a newspaper slip of the discovery 

 of remains of Elephant and Mastodon in various localities, which 

 is here inserted. 



At a meeting of the Agassiz Institute at Sacramento, on the 

 17th of June, the following paper by Dr. L. G. Yates, of Centre- 

 ville, Alameda County, was read : 



The interest taken within the last few years in the " antiquity 

 of man" has invested the finding of the remains of the extnct 

 mammalia with a greater degree of interest than they would other- 

 wise receive, and the question is one which has b}^ common consent 

 been admitted to be one of the most important which has been 

 raised of late years, consequently the discovery of the bones and 

 teeth of any of the larger animals, their geological location and 

 surroundiiigs, is matter of interest to men of science and the ma- 

 jority of educated minds of all classes. 



Less than fifty j^ears ago the discovery of the bones of a fossil 

 elephant, or other large animal, would have been looked upon as 

 evidence supporting some popular superstition in relation to giants 

 or tritons, and by some, less sceptical than the majorit^y, they 

 would have been called a lusus natura?, or, as the writer has heard 

 them pronounced within the last three or four years, " peculiarly 

 formed rock," or "the bones of some common animal which has 

 grown in size since the animal died." But the majority of the 

 people of California at tlie present day are better informed on the 

 subject, and admit the finding of remains of extinct animals of 

 size and form different from those now existing in temperate re- 

 gions ; yet, within the last two or three years, the writer remem- 

 bers having seen an item in one of our interior papers, giving an 

 account of the finding of a "huge til)ia," and giving it (on the 

 authority of some " Doctor") as the bone of a " human" or of 

 some other " upright walking animal." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



But the principal object of the writer of this article, is to furnish 

 a list of localities of remains of fossil elephants and mastodons, 

 to which additions may be made from time to time. 



The writer, during a residence of eight years in California, has 

 spent considerable time in visiting locations where the fossils have 

 been discovered by others, and has succeeded in discovering a 

 number of localities not before known, where fragments of bones 

 and teeth, portions of skeletons, and, in some instances, whole 

 skeletons of the large pachyderms have been found, and has been 

 so fortunate as to discover the onl}^ new species, and, at the same 

 time, probably the oldest mastodon found on the Pacillc Coast. 



List of Localities Fossil Etephas. 



Alameda Comity No. 1. Near Mission San Jose, Elephas Ame- 



ricanus and E. ? Discovered by the writer in post pliocene 



detritus with Mastodon, Lama, Equus, Bos, and a large carnivore ; 

 upper molar deposited in Amherst College ; portion of lower jaw 

 with molar in Yale College, and portion of tusk in Wabash Col- 

 lege. 



No. 2. In Livermore Valley, two large molars of Elephas Arae- 

 ricanus, discovered by the writer in post pliocene with Lama 

 California ? Bos, Equus, Cervus, etc. ; one molar in Wabash Col- 

 lege, the other in writer's collection. 



No. 3. Portion of tusk, from bed of a creek between Haywood 

 and Dublin, formerly in writer's cabinet, deposited in Wabash 

 College. 



Calaveras County. No. L Near Murphy's, in auriferous gi'avel, 

 fragment of molar of Elephas Americanus, discovered by the 

 writer ; deposited in Yale College. 



Los Angelos County. At San Pedro. 



Placer County. No. 1. Near Forest Hill. 



No. 2. Near Michigan Bluff, in auriferous gravel. 



Solano County. No. L At Mare Island, molar. (W. P. Blake, 

 Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Science.) 



No. 2. Near Rio Vista, entire skeleton of Elephas Americanus, 

 about seven feet below the surface in clay. The partj' who dis- 

 covered it " went for it" with a pick, and with the assistance of 

 his neighbors, and by dint of perseverance and hard labor, they 

 succeeded in entirely destroying the bones, so that when the 

 writer visited the locality he found a large pile of small fragments, 

 and succeeded in obtaining casts of portion of the right side of lower 

 jaw with molar, and a portion of upper molar; which, with three 

 or four vertebra, comprised all that was taken, and they were so 

 broken that they had to be built up and partially restored in order 

 to get the easts. 



Fossil 31astodon. 



Alameda County. No. 1. Near Mission San Jose, in post plio- 

 cene gravel, the writer discovered an almost entire lower jaw, 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



containing five molars, and showing in a remarkable degree the 

 nlethod of growth and reiDlacement of the teeth ; deposited in 

 Yale College. 



No. 2. Molar in bowlder of conglomerate, found in Alameda 

 Creek, and presented to writer; deposited in Yale College. 



Amador County. Near Volcano, in auriferous gravel. Locality 

 visited. 



Calaveras County. At Douglas Flat, near Murphy's. Locality 

 visited. 



Contra Costa County. No. 1. At Oak Springs, lower jaw entire 

 and upper molars of Mastodon obscurus, taken out of the base of 

 a pliocene hill by the writer ; entire skeleton in the rock, but im- 

 possible to take it out; lower jaw and upper molar in Amherst 

 College ; upper molar and fragment of tusk in Yale College. 



No. 2. Molar taken out of tunnel on the railroad between 

 Somersville and Pittsburg Landing. Locality visited. 



Ul Dorado County. No. 1. At Grey's Flat, molars in recent 

 gravel deposit. Locality visited. 



No. 2. El Dorado Ranch, several molars and fragment. Lo- 

 cality visited. The " Doctor" who had them pronounced them 

 " Saurian teeth." The teeth had been broken up, and he called 

 each fragment (consisting of a cusp) an entire tootli, but on seeing 

 the pieces put together, and forming a large molar, he thought 

 " perhaps it might be so," but seemed loth to believe it, and re- 

 fused to part with even a fragment. 



No. 3. At Gold Hill, near Placerville. 



Jlendocino County. Locality unknown. 



Placer County On North Fork of American River, above 



Rattlesnake, in gravel. Locality visited. 



Santa Barbara County. At Gaviota Pass. (Prof. J. D. Whit- 

 ney.) 



Stanislaus County. On Dry Creek, Mastodon Shepardi; new 

 species discovered b}' the writer in pliocene sandstone, at the base 

 of a high perpendicular bluff; fragments of tusks in Amherst and 

 Yale Colleges. 



Solano County. Near Benicia. Locality visited. 



Sonoma County. Near Petaluma. Bones in recent deposit 

 near creek. Locality visited. 



Tuolumne County. No. L At Texas Flat, in aurifei'ous gravel. 

 Locality visited. 



No. 2. At Shaw's Flat, in auriferous gravel. Locality visited. 



No. 3. At Gold Springs, in auriferous gravel. Locality visited. 



No. 4. Under Table Mountain ? (Dr. Snell) in old river bed. 

 Locality visited. 



It will be seen that the majority of the localities given have 

 been visited by the writer. Particular attention has been given 

 to the formations and accompanying fossils, and search made for 

 evidences of the handiwork of man, but up to this time the writer 

 has failed to discover anything which would show conclusively 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



that man and either the mastodon or the fossil elephant were con- 

 temporaneous in this State. 



The stories of the finding of bones and teeth of fossil verte- 

 brates, I)}' miners and persons not practical geologists, nor accus- 

 tomed to stud}' the geological whys and wherefores, and who do 

 not realize the necessity of close observation and discrimation of 

 the circumstances and surroundings of the relics, are not, in the 

 writer's opinion, entitled to much weight, and are very liable to 

 give false impressions; for example, in a ravine in Alameda Coun- 

 ty, the writer found a human skull in the bank, some thirty feet 

 below the surface, and apparently in the same formation where he 

 had previousl}' discovered bones and teeth of Elephas, and after- 

 ward found a lower jaw of Mastodon and molar of Elephas, but 

 upon climbing to the top of the bank, the remaining portions of 

 the human skeleton were found some eighteen inches below the 

 surface in an old Indian burial ground or rancheria. It would 

 have been an easy matter to have labelled that skull as "found 

 with bones of Elephant and Mastodon," and passed it ofi" as an- 

 other link in the chain of evidence of the contemporaneousness of 

 man and the extinct animals; or the creek in the ravine might 

 have changed its bed and the human skull been covered up by 

 detritus in close proximity with the mastodon jaw, and after 

 many years discovered by some future fossil hunter, and the re- 

 mains of the two animals assigned, without question, to the same 



age. 



One more example. Some four years since, a friend brought 

 me a remarkably well-preserved molar of a mastodon, imbedded 

 in a bowlder of conglomerate, which he had found in Alameda 

 creek. Now, suppose that tooth, instead of being placed in the 

 writer's cabinet, had been carried by a freshet on to some gravel 

 bed along the creek, and the skull of some aborigine washed out 

 of the bank above (as they often do), or some of the stone imple- 

 ments sometimes found there had been deposited in the same place. 

 Perhaps in a few hundred years or less, some antiquarian or eth- 

 nologist finding these relics in the same gravel bed might at once 

 decide tliat they were of the same age, when in fact the mastodon 

 tooth washed out of a pliocene gravel bed, miles from where it 

 was found, and it may have l)een (and probably was) separated 

 from the other parts of the skeleton, and carried by the action of 

 water perhaps hundreds of miles before it was deposited in the 

 pliocene conglomerate; or, to carry the probabilities still further, 

 the mastodon might have lived in the miocene period, and the 

 tooth washed out of a miocene rock by a pliocene river, to where 

 it was again deposited, and afterward formed a part of the con- 

 glomerate bowlder in wiiich it was found. 



The death of Dr. John Bachraan, a Correspondent of the Acad- 

 eni}', was announced. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



March 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, iu the chair. 



Twent3'-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On the Anatomy of Ariolimax and other Pulmonata." By 



W. G. Binney. 



" Descriptions of some new species of Reptiles." By Edward 



D. Cope. 



Elevation of the Trunks of Trees. Mr. Thomas Meehan re- 

 ferred to remarks made on a former occasion not communicating 

 anything new to science but in regard to matter introduced into 

 a laAvsuit, as to whether the trunks of trees would elongate after 

 once formed. He suggested that trees growing on a rock, by the 

 natural thickening of the roots beneath, would lift the tree four 

 inches in forty years, which covered the matter in dispute. 



Since that time, however, Dr. Lapham, the Botanist, and State 

 Geologist of Wisconsin, had called his attention to a force at 

 work in elevating the trees of that region, which he believes had 

 not before been recognized, and which he thought of interest suffi- 

 cient to merit a notice in the Academy's Proceedings. This was 

 that frost gradually lifted trees so that the trunk would sometimes 

 appear in time to have elongated a foot or more. 



Since Dr. Lapham had made the suggestions, he had examined 

 trees in the vicinity of Philadelphia and found unmistakable evi- 

 dence that large numbers of trees had been raised iu the manner 

 stated. As was well known, most trees standing by themselves 

 had the collar of the tree of much greater diameter than the trunk 

 above; and the upper portions of the roots, springing from about 

 the collar, were considerably above the surface of the ground. 

 He had supposed, and he thought this was the impression of most 

 observers, that this arose merelj' from the annual deposition of 

 wood the thickening upwards of the roots but, on examination, 

 it could be seen in many cases that the axis, or original centre of 

 the root, once of course below the soil, was now above the surface. 



That tills was caused b^' the action of frost was probable from 

 what we know of its action on vegetation by what is known 

 as " drawing out." When the land freezes, expansion ensues, 

 drawing the clover root up with it, leaving, of course, a cavity 

 from whence the root was drawn. When tlie first thaw came, the 

 liquid, carrying earthy matter, entered the cavity; and thus the 

 clover I'oot was prevented from descending to its original position. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



It was as true of trees as of the clover plant. Roots elevated 

 found the cavities below partially filled, and could not thus per- 

 mit of the tree being quite as low as before. Dr. Laphara thought 

 that in the West large old trees blew over much more readily than 

 younger ones, though the comparative weight of head and roots 

 were proportionally the s^ame, chiefly because the older trees had 

 been drawn nearer the surface. 



Mr. M. also remarked that the belief was very prevalent among 

 woodmen, that the numerous large roots which marked the sur- 

 face of an old piece of woodland " like railroads on a modern 

 map" were not originally near the top, but had grown to the sur- 

 face. He had always supposed these also to result from thicken- 

 ing, but he now had seen some cases in which this would not ac- 

 count for it, and only the frost-lifting power would. So, also, in 

 many swampy pieces of land, much of the vegetation had the 

 appearance of tussocks, and the land as if it had been washed 

 awa^' from around the roots. It was not probablj'^ from annual 

 growths, but from gradual liftings of the plants from year to 

 year and the filling in of the spaces beneath by the soft mud. 



It was likely that one of the chief offices of the tap roots was 

 to guard the tree from this frost lifting as much as possible. His 

 impression was that the trees of tropical climates had not near 

 the development of tap roots which are found in the more northern 

 ones, but this was a matter for further investigation. 



March IT. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 

 The death of Dr. Wm. S, Halsev was announced. 



March 24, 

 The President, Dr, Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-seven members present. 



On Actinophrys sol. Prof. Leidy, after describing the structure 

 and habits of this curious rhizopod, said that he had recently' 

 observed it in a condition which he had not seen described. He 

 had accidentally found two individuals including between them a 

 finely granular rayless sphere nearly as large as the animals them- 

 selves. These measured, independently of the rays, 0.064 mm. 

 in diameter; tlie included sphere 0.06 mm. He supposed that 

 he had been so fortunate as to find two individuals of Actinoj)hrys 

 in conjunction with the production of an ovum. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Preserving the animals for observation, on returning after an 

 absence of three hours, the animals were observed connected by 

 a broad isthmus including the granular sphere reduced to half 

 its original diameter. Two hours later the granular sphere had 

 melted in the isthmus, leaving behind Avhat appeared to be a large 

 oil globule and half a dozen smaller ones. The isthmus in the 

 former time measured -^^^ mm., at the later time -^-^ mm. 



Shortl}^ afterwards, the isthmus elongated and contracted to 

 gL mm. on the left, while the right half, retaining the oil globules, 

 remained as thick as before. At the same time the animals be- 

 came flattened at the opposite poles. The latter subsequently 

 became depressed so that the animals assumed a reniform outline. 



The isthmus now more rapidly narrowed and elongated, became 

 a mere thread, and finally separated about one hour from the last 

 two hours indicated. 



The oil globules were retained in the right-hand individual, 

 which, with the remaining projection of the isthmus, appeared 

 broadly codiform in outline. In the left-hand individual all remains 

 of the isthmus at once disappeared, and the animal appeared reni- 

 form in outline, but now contracting on the same side it assumed 

 the buscuit form. The constriction rapidly increased, and in 

 thirty minutes from the time of separation from the right-hand 

 individual it divided into two separate animals presenting the or- 

 dinary appearance of A. sol. Thus this second division took 

 place in an opposite direction from the first. 



The right-hand individual, retaining the oil globules apparently 

 unchanged, more slowly assumed the reniform outline, and then 

 became constricted all around. The constriction elongated to an 

 isthmus, in the centre of which were the oil globules. Three 

 hours after the separation of the right-hand animal, the isthmus 

 was narrowed to about half the diameter of the two new indi- 

 viduals which were about to be formed. At this moment other 

 engagements obliged me to leave the examination of the animals. 

 Six hours after, in the animalcule cage, I observed only half a 

 dozen individuals of the A. sol. 



March 31. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



The following papers w^ere presented for publication : 



" On Variations in Structure of Horns of Deer of the Genus 

 Cariacus." By E. D. Cope, A.M. 



" On the Ziphius of Nantucket." By E. D. Cope, A.M. 



On report of the committees, the following papers were ordered 

 to be pu)>lished : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PEIILADELPHIA. 25 



REMARKS ON THE TERTIARY CLAY OF THE UPPER AMAZON, WITH 

 DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SHELLS. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



Professor Eug. W. Hilgard has sent me for examination a 

 number of fossils collected on the Upper Amazon by Mr. Steere. 

 The extraordinary character of this interesting group has made it 

 one of more than ordinary attraction. The species and even 

 many of the genera being limited to these deposits, we fail to find 

 a point of comparison with other groups of fossils. Some natural- 

 ists have supposed from the look of freshness and the perfection 

 of many specimens, that they may be of comparatively^ modern 

 origin, but the clay in which they are imbedded is admirably 

 fitted for their indefinite preservation. The clay is generally free 

 from iron, and thus one source of injury is wanting. Tlie colors 

 of the shells are sometimes preserved in perfection, and even the 

 epidermis of a few specimens of Pachydon, and also portions of 

 cartilage, but I do not regard these as evidence of very late de- 

 position of the group. The colored markings of a cretaceous 

 Neritina from Mississippi, and on a univalve of the eocene of 

 Alabama, as well as portions of cartilage in an eocene bivalve, all 

 of which I have seen, might as well be considered evidence of late 

 tertiary deposition of the beds in which they occur. Were the 

 Pebas group of pliocene date, we should expect it to contain 

 man}' recent species of the Lower Amazon, and especially Azara, 

 but as far as we yet know, such shells are absent. Triquetra and 

 Hemisinus are characteristic genera of South American rivers, 

 but the fossil species are not identical with living ones. Mr. Dall 

 informs us that " many of the genera are exclusively marine," but 

 I am sure no such genus was in the collection which he studied at 

 the time. Only one doubtful genus of this character has been 

 found in all the collections since made. The fresh-water shells 

 consist of, 2 Anodontas, 2 of Hemisinus, and 2 of Triquetra, 

 besides several land shells, while the estuary genei*a, Mytilopsis 

 and Neretina, might have lived in either fresh or brackish water. 

 On the coasts of the Atlantic States of North America these two 

 genera live in the latter. The only shell which might be sup- 

 posed to be strictly marine is a Nuculana, if it prove to be a 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



species of that genus. So partial a view of the hinge has been 

 obtained that it cannot be certainly determined as indicating that 

 genus. The shell described as Tellina b^- Mr. Gabb is a young 

 valve of Pachydon teimis. So that any certain evidence of a 

 marine origin for the Pebas group is wanting. 



Professor "Woodward remarks that in the living analosrue of 

 Pachydon, " Azara or Potamomya, we have just the evidence we 

 need to argue upon" in respect to the nature of the habitat of the 

 Pebas shells, and quotes Darwin's observations on Azara lahiata. 

 Darwin in his " Geolog-ical Observations on South America" saj's, 

 " On the northern bank of the great estuary of the Rio Plata, 

 near Moldonado, I found at the head of a lake, sometimes brack- 

 ish, but generally containing fresh water, a bed of muddy clay 

 containing Azara labiata,^' etc. This representation of the habits 

 of that shell indicates, I think, those of the Pebas fossils, which 

 may have inhabited a lake similar to that of Moldonado. 



The following letter from Mr. Steere to Prof. Hilgard explains 

 the position of the fossils : 



" I first saw Prof. Orton's fossil bed near Tabatinga. It is com- 

 posed of horizontal beds of blue clay, separated b}'^ beds of dirty 

 coal, that seems more like peat than coal. There seems to be 

 nothing regular in these beds, thus differing apparently in thick- 

 ness, and appeared in a distance of a few hundred yards. I have 

 sent you fossils from these different localities, Pebas, Old Pebas, 

 and Pichana. The}' are situated in relation to each other some- 

 what as follows : Pebas one mile from the mouth of the Ambyacu 

 River, and Old Pebas two miles below, and Pichana perhaps 

 fifteen miles from the mouth of the Ambyacu. The fossils from 

 Pebas are 60 or 10 feet above the river level, while at Old Pebas 

 thej' ai'e at the water level, though tlie shell beds at Pebas ma}' 

 extend down, as the lower strata are covered by fallen and washed 

 earth, leaving the fossil beds visible only at the top. The fossil beds 

 appear to have been denuded irregularly and then covered with a 

 bed of red and white clay and sand, much like that formed so 

 plentifully on the Lower Amazon in some places. This shows in 

 the river bank 30 feet thick, but at Pebas only 8 or 10. I made 

 a rough section of the exposed beds at Pebas, with the following 

 i-esult though the result I think is of little importance, the beds 

 change so frequently. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Pebas. 



8 feet red and white clay and sand. 

 20 feet blue clay, 4 feet of fossils. 

 G inches coal. 

 15 blue clay. 3 feet of fossils. 



"I noticed that the lower strata had less univalves and more bi- 

 valves than the upper. I have sent you some shells that I know 

 are new, and bits of turtle shell, fish bones, coral, crustaceans, 

 etc., which have not been noticed in the bed before." 



I found no specimen of coral in this collection, nor in an}' other 

 of the Amazon fossils. 



Description of Shells of the Pebas Gy^oup. 



PACHYDON, Gabb. 

 In this genus the species are A'ery diverse in form, iuequivalve, 

 both beaks directed forward, spiral ; the cardinal tooth of the left 

 valve is covered in front throughout two-thirds of its length by a 

 portion of the exterior layer of the valves, which is transversely 

 striated, and resembles a wedge sunk into the base of the lunule, 

 so as to define the tooth from the exterior when the valves are 

 closed. In most species the prominent margin of the lesser 

 valve fits into a groove, the lower margin of which is a well- 

 defined lateral tooth. This character is entirely wanting in CoR- 

 BULA, as well as the external view of the cardinal tooth. In P. 

 cuneata this character is strongly marked. Mr. Gabb's name for 

 this genus must be retained, because Stuchbury's Pachyodon, as 

 well as Schumacker's, are superseded. 



P. (Anisorhyncus ?) dispar, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 1. 



Yery oblique, subquadrangular, right valve concave above, with 

 2 diverging carinated lines from apex, one directed towards the 

 ventral extremity, the other towards the anterior margin, left 

 valve profoundly ventricose, with a well-marked groove anterior 

 to the beak, directed somewhat obliquely backward to the ventral 

 margin which is emarginate. The two outlines represent side 

 views of right valve. 



Six or seven siaecimens of this singular species are before me, 

 and I supposed the valves belonged to two different species, so 

 ver}' remote in appearance the}' are from each other ; but one spe- 

 cimen, a cast, occurs with both valves represented in connection. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



It would hardl}' have been tliouglit a Corbula by those who insist 

 on the group being referred to that genus, if no other species of 

 Pachyodon liad been found. 



P. erectus, Conrad. 



I have not the specimen originally figured, of this species, to 

 refer to, and cannot say positively whether P. alius, Conrad, is 

 identical with it. There is no form in the collection which would 

 represent P. erectus. 



P. altus, Conrad, PI. I., figs. 4, 18. 



These represent the right or small valve of P. altus in its 

 3'oung stage of grovvth. There are many specimens of this species 

 in the collection, but not one form which I could refer to the pre- 

 ceding species. 



P. cuneata, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 3. 



This figure represents an unusual form of this shell, which 

 species is rare in the collection in comparison with P. tenuis, oh- 

 liqua, or erectus, about 10 specimens in all. 



Subgenus Anisorhyncus, Conrad. 



One valve of this subgenus occurs in the collection, the principal 

 distinctive character of which is the involution of the right valve. 

 What gives peculiar interest to this shell is that it is closely re- 

 lated to A. py}'iformis. Meek, which lived among Unionidas in the 

 eocene of Utah, and the subgenus unknown in later tertiary de- 

 posits. Tins is another instance of the belated character of the 

 South American faunas, and favors the belief that the Pebas 

 group is not of late tertiar^^ origin. 



p. (Anisorhyncus) cuneiformis, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 19. 



Pyriform, very inequilateral, ventricose anteriorl}', with the sub- 

 margin slightl}'^ convex, and the area before it depressed ; posterior 

 side elongated, somewhat sinuous or contracted, end acutely 

 rounded ; umbonal slope undefined. 



This description applies to only one right valve, which is all in 

 the collection. It is a moderatel}- thick shell, and differs from 

 most species of Platyodon in wanting a prominent beak. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



DRESSEINA, Vanbeneden. 



Subgenus Mytiloides, Conrad. Pkaxis, H. & A. Adams. 

 D. scripta, Conrad, PI. I., figs. 12, 16. 



Triangular, elevated, ventricose anteriorly, compressed towards 

 the posterior end ; umbo sharply angulated anteriorly, anterior 

 side flattened or concave; markings zigzag brown lines. 



This species much resembles D. polymorpha in its colored mark- 

 ings. It is a much smaller species than the latter, and propor- 

 tionally shorter or more elevated. It is sufficiently abundant to 

 mark the estuary character of the bed in which the species lived. 



Figs. 12 are young shells showing extremes of variation in form. 



There is a small species of this subgenus living in the waters of 

 Virginia, among the oysters planted in brackish waters ; D. leuco- 

 phxata, Conrad. (D. Americana, Recluz.) 



ANODOXTA, Cuvier. 

 A. pebasana, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 5. 



Rhomboidal, elongated, compressed ; dorsal and ventral mar- 

 gins parallel; summit very small and acute, little prominent above 

 the hinge line, and erect ; distant from anterior end. 



A single valve of this species is before me. It is only remark- 

 able for its comparatively low elevation or height. There is a 

 fragment of a much larger species in the collection, which may be 

 A. Batesii, Woodward. The fragment I noticed as allied to Mul- 

 LERiA, Woodward states may be an Anodon, but the extraordinary 

 muscular impression renders that impossible. 



TRIQUETRA, Klein. HYRIA, Lam. 

 T.longula, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 10. 



Subrhoraboidal, slightly ventricose, elongated, scarcely alated, 

 hinge and ventral margins nearly parallel ; anterior margin 

 slightly eraarginate; dorsal line convex, ventral margin nearly 

 straight ; umbonal slope rounded except on the umbo, where it 

 is subangular ; umbo flattened, with longitudinal and transverse 

 zigzag plications ; posterior margin obliquely truncated ; cardinal 

 teeth of right valve, four, the anterior one elongated and com- 

 pressed, rectilinear, two diverging teeth immediately under the 

 apex, and a much less elevated linear oblique tooth between two 

 anterior teeth ; in the left valve two very oblique diverging teeth 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



anterior to the beak, and two or three very small direct teeth 



under the beak. 



T. longula (Young), Conrad, PI. I., fig. 13. 



Rhomboidal, compressed, alated, anterior margin obliquely 

 rounded; umbo slightly convex, plicated, the plicfe similar to the 

 preceding, but the zigzag transverse ones wanting. 



There are only fragments of this shell before me, and there- 

 fore the outline must necessarily be conjectural. 



OSTOMYA, Conrad. 



Thin, concentrically plicated ; hinge with a spoon-shaped ob- 

 lique fosset in the left valve, and a small tooth near the apex ; 

 right valve cartilage fosset very oblique, almost parallel with the 

 hinge line. 



0. papyria, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 6. 



Subovate, inequilateral, compressed, very thin, concentrically 

 plicated, slightly sinuous anteriorly; ventral margin slightly 

 emarginate anteriorly ; umbonal slope undefined ; posterior end 

 subangular. 



A very rare shell, of the family Anatinidae. The fosset is very 

 large in proportion to the size of the shell. This form of hinge 

 would indicate a genus living in water more or less brackish. In 

 one specimen the apicial tooth is tuberculiform, in the others acute 

 with a slight channel anterior to it. 



o 



NUCULANA ? Link. 



Plate I., fig. 2, represents the outline of a single specimen of a 

 shell having the form and somewhat similar hinge of Nuculana. 



PLANORBIS, Guettard. 

 P. Febasana, Conrad. 



Discoid, depressed ; volutions 3, convex, channelled along the 

 suture, glos.sy ; base concave, volutions rounded, separated by a 

 deep channel ; aperture round. 



Four or five specimens of this very small species were found in 

 a quantity of small shells and fragments of shells. They ai-e as 

 fresh-looking as living species. If some of these Pebas fossils 

 were gathered, washed out of the clay on the shore of the Amazon, 

 the collection might include recent species of the vicinity. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



PACHYTOMA, Swaiuson. 

 P. tertiana, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 11. 



Pyrainidamical, volutions 5, flattened or concave laterallv. cari- 

 nated at the suture and profoundly so at the sharp angle of the 

 base ; base slightly convex, subumbilicated, subcarinated behind 

 the depression ; basal margin slightly emargiaate. 



A few specimens were found in the detritis. It is with some 

 doubt I refer it to Pachytoma, but I cannot compare it with any 

 other genus known to me. 



TOXOSOMA, Conrad. 



Conical, polished, the aperture projecting, subovate, direct, peri- 

 tome continuous ; columella concave with a plait or tooth in the 

 middle, not oblique ; base rounded, subumbilicated. 



T. eborea, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 7. 



Small, volutions 5, rounded; aperture angular above ; last volu- 

 tion expanded ; columellar tooth minute. 



Found iu company with the preceding shell. It is probably a 

 laud shell. 



CIRROBASIS, Conrad. 



Subcylindrical, with last volution free, aperture projecting, 

 peristome continuous, mouth narrow, subovate, oblique. 



C. venusta, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 15. 



Elongated, volutions 9, very slightly convex, the last volution 

 straight on the side; a few volutions near the apex with a cari- 

 nated line below the middle of each volution ; angle of base sub- 

 carinated. 



Only one specimen was found, and that in perfect preservation. 

 The genus is probably terrestrial, allied to Cylindrella. 



LIOSOMA, Conrad. 



Conical, polished ; aperture subelliptical ; columella with one 

 plait in the middle ; base entire. 



L. curta, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 8. 



Volutions smooth, 4, slightly convex; columella conspicuously 

 cut or indented above the plait, which is not oblique. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CYCLOCHEILA, Conrad. 



P3'raniiclal, aperture circular, expanded labrum widely reflexed, 

 columella flattened, subangular at l)ase. 



C. Pebasana, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 17. 



Volutions 5, with straight sides; last volution angular and 

 carinated on the angle; base flattened; spire and mouth of nearly 

 equal length, spire longest; lines of growth oblique. 



HEMISINUS, Swainsou. 

 H. Steerei, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 14. 



Turreted; volutions 6, convex, showing remains of 3 carina- 

 tions on each one of the spire ; last volutions having 4 revolving 

 carinated lines, the upper one near the suture ; sinus of labrum 

 deep. 



A single specimen occurs, much water-worn, almost obliterating 

 the carinated lines of the spire. 



EBORA, Courad. 

 E. crassilabra, Conrad, PI. I., fig. 9. 



Notes. LiRis LAQUEATA, Courad, appears to me to be a land 

 shell allied to Cylindrella and Clausilia. There are, I think, 

 five genera of land shells and three of fresh water, with four 

 species of the latter. A few fragments of fish remains (Mylio. 

 bates) were determined by Prof. Leidy, and there is an impress in 

 the clay of nearly a whole crab. It is remarkable that no remains 

 of plants have been found where delicate fresh-water and land 

 shells have been drifted into these deposits. We ma}'^ expect to 

 find mammalian relics when the beds are more thoroughly ex- 

 plored, and they would be likely to indicate their geological age. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



ON THE ANATOMY AND LINGUAL DENTITION OF ARIOLIMAX AND 



OTHER PULMONATA. 



BY W. G. BINNEY. 



I have already, in connection with my friend Mr. T. Bland, 

 given a description of the external characters of Ariolimax (Ann. 

 N. Y. Lye, N. H. X. 297, 1873). 1 now propose to describe 

 such of its internal organs as I have*been able to study. 



I have examined one specimen of Ariolimax niger^J. G. Coop., 

 preserved in spirit, belonging to the state collection of California, 

 labelled and presented by Dr. Cooper, and in all respects an au- 

 thentic type. Agreeing with this type I have other specimens 

 from various California localities, so that I believe the species to 

 be well established and generally distributed along the coast of 

 California. 



From the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, Mr. 

 Anthony has sent me a specimen, long preserved in alcohol, 

 marked from San Mateo, California. For reasons given below, I 

 am inclined to consider this the form described by Dr. Cooper as 

 A. Californicus. I have had the opportunity of examining 

 another specimen of this form, received from Mr. Stearns, who 

 collected it near San Francisco. 



From Mr. Henry Hemphill I have received a specimen from 

 San Mateo Co., California, which presents most decided specific 

 differences from the last-mentioned form, especially in its geni- 

 talia. Having considered the last-mentioned form as A. Califor- 

 nicus, I am forced to consider this as A. Columbianus, the only 

 remaining described species. It must be borne in mind, however, 

 that I have never compared it with specimens from more northern 

 regions, whence the species was originally described. The large 

 number of specimens formerly preserved in the Smithsonian, tabu- 

 lated in Land and Fr. w. Shells, Part I. p. 281, were destroyed at 

 the fire in Chicago, and I have been unable to obtain elsewhere 

 any specimens from Oregon or AVashington Territory, which I 

 can refer to the true Columhianus. 



In treating these various forms, I have abstained from giving 

 any description of their exterior markings. Such description 

 would be unreliable, as the specimens have been long preserved in 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



alcohol, and are evidently in various degrees of contraction. I 

 will say, however, that I found, in all the blind sac under the 

 mouth (well marked, though not very deep), which is suspected 

 by Dr. Leid}' to be the seat of the olfactory nerve. 



I can also here refer to several external characters not affected 

 or obliterated by contraction in alcohol. All the specimens have a 

 distinct locomotive disk to the foot. In all, the orifice of respi- 

 ration is decidedlj^ posterior to the middle of the right margin of 

 the mantle. The position of the anns I found in A. Golumbianus 

 to be posterior and inferior to the respiratory orifice, with a 

 gutter-like groove to the edge of the mantle. Tiie position of the 

 orifice of the generative organs is not so easily decided in alco- 

 holic specimens. I have no doubt, however, that in the living 

 animal it is under the mantle, not close behind the right tentacle. 

 In one form, Ariolimax Californicus, there are beyond doubt 

 two distinct orifices ; that of the male being smaller and anterior. 

 In Dr. Cooper's figure of A. Calif ornicus (Proc. Phila. Ac. Xat. 

 Sc. 1873, pi. iii. f. D 3) the two orifices are plainly shown, and 

 suggested to me the identity of my specimens with his species, 

 especially as the external markings also agreed with his descrip- 

 tion. In A. Golumbianus ? also there is no common duct or 

 cloaca, as Dr. Leidy calls it, to the genitalia, though I could not 

 detect more than one exterior orifice. In A. niger there can be 

 but one common orifice, judging from the penis entering into the 

 common cloaca, as shown in my fig. c of plate XI. 



The mantle is free on its margin in its whole circumference, espe- 

 cially in front and on its sides as far back as the respiratory orifice. 

 I could detect no concentric lines or other markings on the mantle. 

 The mantle was greatly produced and swollen on its margins in 

 Mr. Steam's specimen of A. Calif or Jiicus. In that and all the 

 specimens examined I found an internal shell, varying somewhat 

 in thickness, but always well marked, calcareons, subhexagonal, 

 longer than wide. In the specimen of A. Coluv^bianus '? there 

 were decided concentric lines of growth on the shell, as will be 

 seen in my fig. G, plate II. 



The caudal mucus pore was plainly visible in all the specimens 

 of ^. niger which I have examined. In fig. a of plate II. I have 

 figured the pore of this species. It seems to be in two portions, 

 one erect, triangular, at the end of the body of the animal, with 

 another running at right angles with it in a gutter-like excava- 




NATURAL SCIENTCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 35 



tion towards the extreme end of the tail. In the form I have 

 referred to A. Columhianus ? the pore was quite different from 

 this, as seen in my figure B of plate II. In this the erect portion 

 of the pore is entirely wanting, the carinated body being arched 

 regularly down to, and overhanging the foot. The longitudinal 

 gutter-like pore is, however, plainly visible. In the two specimens 

 of the form I have referred to A. Californicus, the body is also 

 arched down to, and overhangs, the foot. On the tail, corre- 

 sponding to the gutter-like pore of the last-mentioned form, there 

 was no sign of any pore, but in its place the flesh was sponge-like, 

 without the markings which are found on the neighboring por- 

 tions of the foot. It may be, therefore, that in these specimens 

 the mucous pore was contracted or closed. No doubt it exists in 

 the living animal. 



Of the internal anatomy I have examined the nervous S3-stem 

 in both A. Californicus and A. Colambianus ? The ganglia pre- 

 sent the usual three sets, all globular in form, and so crowded 

 together in the suboesophageal and supercesophageal as almost to 

 form a continuous chain around the buccal mass. 



In these same two forms, also, I have examined the circulatory 

 and respiratory organs. Within the respiratory cavity is a large, 

 spongy, ear-shaped organ, attached only at one point to the roof 

 of the chamber. This, I suppose to be the renal organ, surround- 

 ing, and indeed inclosing, the heart, though it is not so arranged 

 in any of the genera described by Dr. Leidy. In Avion hortensis 

 he describes the nearest approach to such an arrangement. 



I have examined the digestive system of all the forms, and 

 figured that of both A. Californicus and Columhianus. In the 

 latter, plate II. fig. d, f, the buccal mass (1) is large and round, the 

 salivary glands (4) short and broad ; the stomach (5) long and 

 large, with a decided constriction at its middle, and the usual cul- 

 de-sac (6) at its extremity, at which point the biliary ducts (T, 7) 

 enter ; from this the stomach passes into the intestine (8), which 

 proceeds first forward almost to the oesophagus, thence proceeds 

 backward to the extreme rear of the general cavity of the body, 

 and again forward to below the respirator}' cavity, into which it 

 penetrates upwards as the rectum (9), and through which it 

 passes to the anus, whose position is described above. The intes- 

 tine in its whole course winds among, and is imbedded in, the 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



various lobes of the liver, which latter organ is arranged as usual 

 in Limax, Avion, etc. 



In A. Calif amicus (plate XI. fig. e), there is a difference in the 

 arrangement of the stomach. Before reaching the cul-de-sac (6), 

 the stomach is greatly constricted, and the cul-de-sac runs at 

 right angles with the stomach in an erect position, not lying on 

 its side as I have represented it, in order to show the connection 

 between it and the anterior portion of the stomach, which connec- 

 tion was entirely concealed by the cul-de-sac in its upright posi- 

 tion. The extreme length of the digestive system is three times 

 that of the whole body of the animal, at least in its contracted 

 state. 



The jaw in all the forms of Arioliviax is quite thick, dark horn- 

 colored, arcuate ; ends but little attenuated, blunt ; anterior surface 

 with stout ribs, denticulating either margin. I have figured the 

 jaw of A. Golvmhianus'^ (plate II. fig. h) which has about twelve 

 ribs. In A. Californicus, from Mr. Anthou}-, there were thirteen 

 ribs to the jaw; fourteen in Mr. Hemphill's specimen of the same. 

 In A. niger Dr. Cooper describes about twenty, but in one spe- 

 cimen I found but eight. In Land and Fr. w. Shells, I. p. 280, I 

 have figured a jaw of the true northern form with eighteen ribs. 



The pouch of the lingual membrane is shown in plate II. fig. 

 D, 5. The membrane is as usual in the Helicidae, with tricuspid 

 central, bicuspid lateral, and quadrate marginal teeth showing 

 simply a modification of the laterals. In L. and Fr. w. Shells, I. 

 ]). 280, I have figured the lingual membrane of the true northern 

 A. Columbianus. The marginal teeth are there shown to have 

 one long denticle and a small, subobsolete side denticle. This 

 form of marginal teeth I have found in the form I have referred 

 to ^'^. Columbianus? (see plate II. fig. e). Also in one of Dr. 

 Cooper's tj'pes of A. niger (plate XI. fig. a), and in both the spe- 

 cimens of A. Californicus (plate XI. fig. g). This form of mar- 

 ginal tooth may therefore be considered characteristic of the 

 genus, though in one specimen supposed to be A. niger, I noticed 

 marginal teeth with the outer cusp much more developed and 

 bifid, and figured them in Ann. Lye. N. H. N. Y., x. pi. xiii. fig. L 

 In plate XI. fig. B, I have given the central and the adjoining 

 lateral teeth of A. niger. In fig. F, the central and one adjoining 

 lateral of A. Californicus. 



There is no retractor muscle to the buccal mass in A. Califor' 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



nicus and A. Golumhianus ?, but a very stout, broad one to the 

 whole head, attached to the outer integument, below the buccal 

 mass, and running along some distance on the floor of the general 

 visceral cavit}", to which finally it becomes attached. 



In describing the genital organs I have used the terras applied 

 to the various organs by Dr. Leid}' in the first volume of my 

 father's work on "The Terrestrial MoUusks of the United States." 

 Each form examined presented differences in these organs. They 

 all agi'ee, however, in having a very large ovary. 



On opening the body of ^. niger (plate XI. fig. c), the genitalia 

 are found in the usual place, the testicle lying quite at the rear of 

 the visceral cavit}' near the extreme point of the upper lobes of 

 the liver, hardly imbedded in it, connected to the ovary by a long 

 epidid3nnis (2). The testicle (1) is globular in form, composed 

 of black, aciniform cfeca. It contrasts in color with the dirty 

 "white of the liver. Color, however, I have not found constant in 

 the internal organs of land shells preserved in spirits. The above 

 described arrangement of the testicle is as usual in Limax^ Arion^ 

 and other slugs. It forms an excellent specific character for A 

 nigei', the position of the testicle being quite difierent in A. Cali- 

 fornicus and ^4. Columbianus?, a.s will be seen below. The epi- 

 didymis (2) is long, convoluted at the end nearer the ovary. The 

 accessory gland is shown in 3. The ovary (11) is large, yellow- 

 ish. The oviduct (8) and prostate (4) show no unusual characters. 

 The genital bladder (9) is large, oval, with a short duct (16). 

 The penis is in a short, stout sac (5), which has a bulb-like swell- 

 ing at its upper extremity, where the vas deferens (7) enters. 

 The latter organ has nothing of peculiar interest. A vaginal 

 prostate, or perhaps dart sac, is shown in 13. The extei'nal ori- 

 fice is described above (p. 34). 



The genital system of A. Californicus is figured in d of plate 

 XI. The testicle does not lie far away, imbedded in, or resting 

 on, the upper lobes of the liver, but lies close against the ovary, 

 in the semicircle formed by the recurving of the apex of the 

 ovary upon itself. In this respect, the position of the testicle is 

 diflTerent from that of most slugs, and affords an excellent specific 

 character. The testicle (1) is kidney-shaped as it is covered by 

 its investing membrane. It appears to consist of closely bound 

 fasciculi of short, white, tubular, not aciniform caeca. The epi- 

 didymis (2) is shprt and still more shortened by its excessive 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



convolution. The accessoiy gland is shown in 3, partiall}^ iml)edded 

 in the ovaiy. The ovaiT (11) is large and distinctly lobulated. 

 The oviduct (8) is narrow, ver^' long, greatly' convoluted. From 

 the testicle to about the middle of the course of the oviduct is a 

 stout thread-like organ, of unknown use to me, either a muscle, 

 nerve, or duct. It is not figured in my plate, as I am not certain 

 of its forming part of the genital S3'stem. The genital bladder 

 (9) is oval, large, with a short, stout duct (16). The penis is 

 inclosed in a long tapering sac (5), terminating in a decided fla- 

 gellum (15), in which I detected no capreolus. On the end of 

 the flagellum is a large, globular bulb. The retractor muscle of 

 the penis is attached to the roof of the general visceral cavity, 

 below the pulmonary chamber. It joins the penis at the com- 

 mencement of the flagellum. The vas deferens (7) is peculiar. 

 It leaves the prostate gland (4) as usual, runs alongside of the 

 vagina to the base of the penis, thence runs upwards, swelling to 

 an enormous extent, so as to equal the breadth of the penis, then 

 again becomes gradually reduced to its former size until, as the 

 most delicate thread, it enters the penis at the end of the flagellum 

 below the bulb. The penis did not appear in the animal extended 

 as drawn in the plate, but was twice recurved upon itself. There 

 is also a vaginal prostate (13), large, ear-shaped, close to the 

 exterior orifice of the female organs, which, with that of the male, 

 is described above (p. 34). 



On plate II. fig. c, I have figured the genitalia of A. Columhi- 

 anus? which also has a xevy large ovar^^ (11) against which the 

 testicle (1) lies as in the preceding form. The OA'ary is so large 

 as to take up one-half of the entire visceral cavit}^, extending 

 completel}' across the body, resting on the floor of the cavitj', its 

 ends recurved upwards so as to rest upon the liver on the upper 

 surface of the viscera. The body of the animal externally is 

 swollen by the large size of the ovary. The oviduct (8) is narrow, 

 long, greatly convoluted, ending in an extremely' long, convoluted 

 vagina. The genital bladder (9) is oval, large, with a short, stout 

 duct (16). The vas deferens (7) unlike that of the preceding 

 form, is as nsual in the land shells. It enters the penis (5) at its 

 summit, opposite the retractor muscle (6). The sac of the penis 

 is very stout, long, cylindrical. The external orifice is described 

 above (p. 34). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Zonites Isevigatus, Pfr., pi. III., fig i. 



I have examined numerous specimens, but have some liesitation 

 in giving m}' figure and description as absolutelj^ perfect. I had 

 great difficulty in dissecting the species. 



The ovary is short and vagina long. The genital bladder with 

 its duct forms a short cylindrical sac-like organ, opening ne.ar the 

 base of tlie vagina, and tapering at the apex. The penis sac is 

 long, cylindrical, larger at its apex where it receives the vas de- 

 ferens. At its base the penis sac has its opening into the vagina 

 with a short stout organ (fig. 13) with rounded apex, where a re- 

 tractor muscle seems to be attached. This organ may be a dart 

 sac or some form of prostate gland. 

 HempMllia glandulosa, Bl. and Binn., pi. III., fig. v. vi. 



Tiie testicle is composed of a large globular mass of aciniform 

 caeca. It lies looselj- upon, not imbedded in, the upper lolies of 

 tlie liver. The ovary and oviduct are as usual. The genital 

 bladder is globular, very large, on a short stout duct, entering the 

 vagina near its base. The penis sac is long, C3lindrical, larger 

 towards its apex, where both tlie retractor muscle and vas de- 

 ferens enter. 



In several specimens examined, the penis sac appeared some- 

 what different. It had a large globular bulb (5a) at its apex. 

 The vas deferens (1) entered beyond the middle of the length of 

 the sac (5) ; it was greatly swollen (56) before entering the sac, 

 for a distance equalling about one-half of the length of the sac. 

 At the commencement of this swelling the retractor muscle (6) 

 was inserted. This form of penis sac is figured in fig, vi. 



The balance of the anatomy of Hemphillia seems to be as in 

 the other slugs. 

 Helix Kelletti, Forbes (Arionta), pi. III., fig. iv. The Catalina Island form. 



The ovary is light yellow. The oviduct is white. The genital 

 bladder is light yellow. The prostate is large and j^ellow. 



The whole genital system is long and narroAV. The genital 

 bladder is small, globular, on an extremely long and delicate duct 

 which enters the vagina at its npper end. The duct just below 

 the bladder receives a branch duct, very long, flagellate, three 

 times the diameter of the duct itself. The penis sac is long, stout, 

 cylindrical, tapering towards its apex and prolonged into a very 

 long delicate flagellum. The vas deferens enters at the point 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



where the flagellum commences. The retractor muscle is inserted 

 half way between the vagina and the entrance of the vas deferens. 

 Opposite the mouth of the penis sac is a small sac-like organ, 

 probably a dart sac or vaginal prostate. 



Helix Mitchelliana, Lea {^fesodon), pi. III., fig. iii. 



The genital system is long and narrow. The oviduct is greatly 

 convoluted. The penis sac is long, stout, cylindrical, with a bulb- 

 like expansion at its apex, at which point both vas deferens and 

 retractor muscle are inserted. The genital bladder is lengthened, 

 ovate, not much larger than its duct, which is sliort, and enters 

 the vac-hia below the middle of its length. 

 Helix reticulata, Pfr. {Arionta), pi. III., fig. ii. 



The specimens examined have a very globose shell. The ovary 

 is brownish below, yellowish above. The epididymis and testicle 

 are salmon colored. The oviduct is w^hite, the prostate salmon. 

 The genital bladder is small, oval, with an extremely long duct, 

 which has a flagellate branch. The duct enters at the lower end 

 of the vagina. The penis is narrow, cylindrical, extremely long, 

 with a flagellate extension. The retractor muscle is inserted be- 

 yond the middle of the length of the penis, the vas deferens at 

 the commencement of the flagellum. There is a stout long cylin- 

 drical vaginal prostate, whose apex is extended into a flagellum, 

 which shortly becomes bifurcate, there being a bulb-like expansion 

 on each branch just beyond the bifurcation. 



In some individuals the bulb-like expansions are still larger and 

 stouter than in the figure. The cylindrical extension of the va- 

 ginal prostate is abruptly truncated, the two flagella entering near 

 the end, not at the extreme terminus. 



Helix Eoemeri, Pfr. {Mesodon) . 



The genitalia are figured on pi. lY., fig. v. The oviduct is 

 scarcely convoluted. The genital bladder is large, oval, with a 

 long, large duct. The penis sac is short, stout, of about equal 

 breadth throughout, ending in a stout oval bulb, into which the 

 vas deferens enters. The retractor muscle is inserted above the 

 entrance of the vas deferens. 



The specimen examined was collected in Bosque County, Texas, 

 by Mr. Hugo W. Ericsson. 

 Helix appressa, Say { Triodopsis) . 



The genitalia are figured on pi. IV., fig. IV. The ovary is long 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



and narrow. The epididymis is very long, convoluted at the end 

 nearer the oviduct. The last-named organ is not much convoluted. 

 The prostate is scalloped along its edges. The genital bladder is 

 globular, small, with a long, small duct. The sac of the penis is 

 extremely long, ribbon-like, one and one-half as long as the ovi- 

 duct. The vas deferens enters its apex. 



The long ribbon-like sac of the penis resembles that figured by 

 Dr. Leidy (Terr. Moll. U. S. I.), of H. Sayii. There is but little 

 resemblance to the genitalia of H. iJalliata, so nearly allied b^- its' 

 shell. 



The specimens examined were collected in eastern Tennessee, 

 by Miss Law. 



Helix Nickliniana, Lea {Arionta). 



The genitalia are figured on plate IV. fig. iii. The ovary is yel- 

 low, long, narrow, concave on one side, convex and carinated on the 

 other. The accessory gland of the epididymis is composed of long, 

 white cseca. The oviduct is extremely long, narrow, convoluted. 

 The genital bladder is globular, small, with an extremely long 

 duct, to which is added an accessory duct or branch, almost as long 

 as the oviduct. This branch joins the duct near its end. It is 

 thicker than the duct. The duct enters the vagina at its upper 

 part. The penis sac is long, cylindrical, small, almost equalling 

 in length the oviduct and ovary united. The retractor muscle is 

 Inserted at about the middle of its length, it is attached to the dia- 

 phragm ; the vas deferens enters about three-fourths of its length ; 

 beyond the vas deferens is a flagellate extension. The vagina is 

 long and narrow ; near its base, opposite the entrance of the sac 

 of the penis is a stout, cylindrical, long, hollow, vaginal prostate, 

 gradually tapering at its apex, and extended into a delicate tube, 

 which soon becomes divided into two long flagella. Just beyond 

 the division, on each flagellum, is a stout bulb-like enlargement. 



This complicated form of genitalia, hitherto unnoticed in Ame- 

 rican species, has been noticed in European species. 



Patula strigosa, Gould, pi. IV., fig. ii. 



Represents the genitalia of a Salmon River specimen. The 

 testicle, as usual, was in the summit of the upper lobe of the liver. 

 The epididymis is long, convoluted in its half nearer the testicle. 

 The accessory gland is composed of several long, black coeca. 

 The oviduct is sac-like, not convoluted, containing eight embr^'onic 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



shells. The genital bladder is long, with a long, narrow dnct en- 

 tering the upper part of the vagina. The vagina is short and 

 swollen. The penis sac is long, stout, blunt at apex, where the 

 retractor muscle is inserted. The vas deferens becomes greatly 

 swollen before it enters the sac of the penis, which it does above 

 the insertion of the retractor muscle. 



As the shells of some forms of this species are difficult to dis- 

 tinguish from some forms of Patula solifaria, it is interesting to 

 state that the genitalia of a specimen of the latter from the same 

 locality', offer very distinct specific characteristics, agreeing with 

 Dr. Leidy's figure in Terr. Moll. U. S. I. 



Macrocyclis Vancouverensis, Lea. 



The genitalia are figured on pi. IV., fig. i. The epididymis is 

 extremely long and very large, forming the peculiar feature of the 

 sj^stem. The genital bladder is oval, with a long duct, which is 

 very much broader at the end nearer the vagina. The penis sac is 

 long, gradually tapering at its apex, where it receives the vas de- 

 ferens. Upon the side of the vagina, about the middle of its 

 length, is a wart-like protuberance, which may be a dart sac or a 

 vaginal prostate. 



A comparison of Dr. Leidy's figure of the genitalia of M. con- 

 cava in Terr. Moll. U. S. I. shows considerable difference between 

 the two species, especially in the epididymis. 

 Zonites demissus, Binney. 



The genitalia are like those of Z. intertexhis, Binney, figured by 

 Dr. Leidy (Terr. Moll. U. S. I.). The accessory glands of the 

 dart sac are rather shorter in demissus. 



Amphibulima appendiculata, Pfr. 



Elsewhere (Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist., N. Y. x. 206, pi. ix. f. 2, 6, 9, 

 11) we have fully described the external appearance, jaw, lingual 

 membrane, and shell of this species, pointing out its differences 

 from Succinea, from Pellicula, from Omalonyx, and all other de- 

 scribed genera. 



I now give (pi. VIII. fig. 5) a figure of its genital system, with 

 notes on other organs, drawn from specimens in alcohol. 



The external orifice of generation is behind the right eyepedun- 

 cle. The orifice of respiration is on the right mai'gin of the man- 

 tle, slightly to the rear of its middle. There is a distinct locomo- 

 tive disk to the foot. The eyepeduucles must be short and stout. 

 The digestive and nervous systems present no remarkable feature. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



The suboesophageal ganglia consist apparently of six closely 

 agglomerated globules. There are two simple globules to the 

 stomacogastric ganglia. The genital system (pl.VIII. fig. 5) is quite 

 simple, presenting no accessory organs. Tlie testicle is composed 

 of six or seven fasciculi of long cseca, which massed together in a 

 globular form equal the length of the oviduct. This enormous 

 development of the testicle is the peculiarity of the genital sys- 

 tem, and no doubt will prove a reliable specific, but not generic, 

 character. The epididymis is long, convoluted at its middle por- 

 tion. The oviduct is long, narrow, not convoluted. The vagina 

 is about one-fifth the length of the oviduct; it is swollen greatly 

 at the entrance of the penis. The genital bladder is small, glo- 

 bular ; its duct is narrow, longer than the oviduct, and enters the 

 vagina at the upper fourth of its length. The penis sac is short, 

 stout, blunt at apex, where the vas deferens enters and where the 

 retractor muscle is also inserted. 



In the paper referred to above we hesitated to decide upon the 

 generic position of this species, leaving it temporarily in Pellicula 

 of Fischer (not of Heynemann, which is Omalijnx). Since that 

 time I have become acquainted with the jaw of Aniphibulima, and 

 find it to be of the same tj-pe as in appendicidata. I would, there- 

 fore, suggest that this species belongs to Amphibulima. It is true 

 its lingual dentition (see pi. VIII. fig. 6) more closely resembles that 

 of Simpulopsis sulculosa as far as centrals, and perhaps laterals, 

 are concerned; but in the marginals, as described in S. sulculosa 

 and S. Potiornceyisis, the resemblance ceases. Moreover, the jaw 

 of Simpulopsis is described as quite diff"erent by Shuttleworth. The 

 species under consideration cannot, therefore, be placed in Si7n- 

 pulopsis. It appears, at all events, that the shell in this group is 

 an unreliable guide to generic position. 



It must be borne in mind that I here describe the anatomy of 

 the shell figured by us (I.e.). We believe it to be Succinea ap- 

 joendiculata, Pfr. Fischer bases his genus Pellicula on Succinea 

 depressa, Rang. He does, indeed, place S. appendiculata, Pfr., in 

 the synonymy of his species, but our specimens of appendiculafa 

 could never be the same as Fischer's specimens of depressa. His 

 had a jaw with nine decided ribs, denticulating the cutting edge, 

 and teeth^ of the usual form of Eelicinae^ quite different from what 



In Fischer's plate the references to teeth of Omalonyx unguis aud Pel- 

 _ licula depressa are reversed. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



we find in onr S. appendiculata. His species and ours are there- 

 fore distinct. 



Pellicula convexa, Martens (Succinea), is quite a distinct species, 

 and belongs to tlie genus Omalonyx^ as sliown by Heynemann's 

 figure of the jaw (Mai. Blatt., xv.). 



I give also figures of the central and lateral teeth of our species 

 (pl.YIII.,fig. 6^). 



Amphibulima patula, Brug. 



I have elsewhere described, in connection with Mr. Bland, the 

 jaw and lingualmembraneof specimens of this species from St.Kitts 

 and Dominica (Am. Journ. of Conch., YII. 186, pi. xvii., f. 1, 2; 

 Ann. Lye. N. H. and N. Y., x. 225, pi. xi., f 8) Lately the question 

 of identity of these shells with the Guadeloupe jja/^Jo has been 

 raised (see Journal de Conch^liologie, XXL 12). I have, therefore, 

 again carefull}' examined the lingual membranes previously de- 

 scribed to learn if the}- give any difference worthy to be considered 

 of specific value. 1 have figured teeth from each lingual mem- 

 brane (pi. YIL). I regret not having had the opportunity of exam- 

 ining Guadeloupe specimens also, but have never been able to 

 receive the latter with the animal ; indeed it seems to be now 

 found subfossil only. I can only treat the question of the identity 

 of the St. Kitts and Dominica forms, not their identit}^ with Guade- 

 loupe forms. 



It will be seen that the Dominica form has sharper cutting- 

 points to the large cusps of its central and lateral teeth than that 

 of St. Kitts. Fig. B shows a group of laterals of the former, in 

 which some variation from the pointed shape is indeed shown, but 

 no decided tendenc}' that way. On the other hand, the laterals, 

 from the St. Kitts form, show great constancy in the square trun- 

 cation of the cutting points. 



The teeth of the St. Kitts form are broader in proportion to 

 their length than those of Dominica, have a greater curve in their 

 outlines, and more developed side cusps, which overlap the me- 

 dian cusps. 



The Dominica lingual in the onl}'^ row counted had 81-1-87 

 teeth. A row of the St. Kitts form 57-1 -5T. The marginal teeth 

 of the St. Kitts form show a greater tendency to splitting into 

 sharp denticles on the cutting cusps than tliose of Dominica. 



It cannot be denied that certain variations may be noticed in 

 the two lingual membranes. I believe, however, that these differ- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



ences are not such as suggest specific distinction, especially as the 

 shell furnishes no grounds for doubting the specific identity of the 

 forms. Nor by the shell alone does there seem to be two species. 

 Mr. Bland has given a detailed account of the species in Journal 

 de Conchyliologie, XXI. 342, October, 1873. 



Amphibulima rubescens, Desh. 



Mr. Bland and myself are indebted to Governor Rawson for 

 specimens preserved in spirits of Succinea 7-ubescens, Fer. of 

 Martinique. 



On examination of the jaw and lingual membrane, I found 

 the species to be no Succinea, but an Amphibulima, in which 

 genus it is placed by H. and A. Adams (Gen. Rec. Moll.), and by 

 Beck (Index), though PfeifTer treats it as a Succinea, and von 

 Martens catalogues it in Succinea, s. str. (See note 1 to p. 345 

 of Journ. de Conch., Oct. 1873, 3d series, XIII.) 



The external appearance of the animal has nothing peculiar. 

 The head appears blunt and short, the tail long and pointed, 

 without any mucus pore. There is no distinctly marked loco- 

 motive disk to the foot, over the whole breadth of which the 

 transverse muscles pass. The reticulations of the surface of the 

 animal seem large and coarse in proportion to its size. As far 

 as can be judged from alcoholic specimens, the tentacles and e3^e- 

 peduncles seem short and stout. The respiratory and anal orifices 

 are under the mantle on the right side. The external orifice of 

 generation is behind the right eyepeduncle. 



On opening the animal from above, the generative system is 

 found as usual, lying on the right of the animal. It occupies the 

 whole of the visceral cavity in front of the shell, lying upon the 

 stomach. The testicle (see plate VIII., fig. 4) is a globular mass 

 composed of long ceeca. It lies imbedded in the liver. The epidi- 

 dymis is not greatly convoluted. It passes between the stomach 

 and intestine, at the cul-de-sac of the former, on its way to the 

 ovary. The latter organ is, as usual, tongue-shaped. The ovi- 

 duct is long and greatly convoluted. The vagina is short, 

 receiving at its lower portion the long duct of the small, globular 

 genital bladder. The penis enters the vagina close to the common 

 opening. The sac of the penis is not long, is stout, cylindrical, 

 blunt at apex, where it receives the vas deferens, just above the 

 insertion of the retractor muscle. There are no accessor^'^ organs. 

 The genital system is very much the same in its general arrange- 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



nient as that of Amphibulima appendiculafa, Pfr. (see fig. 5), but 

 dirt'evs among other things in wanting the huge testicle of that 

 species. 



The digestive sj^stem presents no peculiar characters. The 

 stomacli is long, narrow, and ribbon-shaped, lying under the 

 genital system and extending backward as far as the shell when 

 the animal is extended. At this point the stomach forms the 

 usual cul-de-sac at its junction with the intestine. The last organ, 

 and the liver are small in proportion, as would be anticipated 

 from the short spire of the shell ; the liver is dark blue. There 

 seems to be a retractor muscle to the whole head rather than to 

 the buccal mass. It lies on the floor of the cavit}'. The buccal 

 mass is large, the oesophagus small. The salivary glands and 

 ducts, and pouch of the lingual membrane are as usual. The jaw 

 is readil}' detached from the muscles of the mouth, and is not 

 connected with the lingual membrane as usual with our Helices.* 

 It is thin, wide, low, arched, with attenuated, bluntly pointed 

 ends ; divided by numerous (about 63) delicate ribs into separate 

 plate-like divisions, as in the jaw of Gi/lindrella, Bidimidus, etc., 

 the ribs running somewhat obliquely towards the centre of the 

 jaw ; there is no decided, upper median, triangular plate (fig. 2, 

 plate VIII.). The lingual membrane (plate VII., fig. 3) is long, 

 broad, composed of numerous rows of 76-1-76 teeth. Centrals 

 long, narrow, expanding below with the lower margin squarely 

 excavated as in Succinea ; tricuspid, the central cusp yQvy long, 

 wide, with a greatly expanded, squarely truncated cutting point 

 reaching beyond the lower margin of the tooth; the side cusps 

 short and narrow, simply pointed. The lateral teeth are of same 

 t3'pe as the centrals, but unsymmetrical and bicuspid. The mar- 

 ginals are a simple modification of the laterals, with a long, 

 bluntly truncated median cusp, and obsolete side cusps. The 

 extreme marginals are irregularly denticulated, the outer and inner 

 denticles being more produced, especially the outer, and greatlj'' 

 curved ; the inner denticles, usually two in number, are quite 

 small. 



The jaw agrees perfectly with that of the genus Amphibulima 

 described by us. (Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., x. p. .223, pi. xi. 



' Even after boiling the whole buccal mass in potash, the lingual mem- 

 brane and jaw remain attached in most of our Helices of K. A. showing a 

 decided connection between the two. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



fig. 8.) The lingual membrane has also the same general arrange- 

 ment as in that genus, with specific differences from that of A. 

 patula (see plate YII., fig. a-c), especially in the widely expanded, 

 blunt median cusp, and in the Sicccinea-\ike cutting away of the 

 lower margin of the teeth. 



The nervous ganglia are as usual in the Geophila, forming a 

 continuous ring in the supraoesophageal, and grouped together in 

 one mass in the suboesophageal set. 



Plate YIII., fig. 3, gives the central and adjacent lateral teeth, 

 with marginals at different intervals to the edge of the membrane. 



The notes we have given above will enable a full generic descrip- 

 tion of the genus Amphibulima to be drawn. 



Gonospira and Nanina, from Mauritius. 



Having received from the Museum of Comparative Zoology at 

 Cambridge a number of specimens in alcohol of Mauritius species, 

 collected b}' Consul Pike, we are able to give the following notes 

 on them. 



Gonoftpi7-a. There were several species of this and the allied 

 subgenera, allowing an examination of their anatomy. The soft 

 parts of the animals are colored red. The species especially 

 examined are G. Newtoni, H. Ad,, and G. palanga, Fer. There 

 seems nothing in the anatomy different from what is usual in the 

 land shells. The genitalia of G. Neiotoni are figured on plate VIII., 

 fig. 7. There are no accessory organs. The genital bladder is 

 long, oval, with a long, narrow duct. The penis sac is stout, long, 

 receiving the vas deferens at its summit, at which point, also, the 

 retractor muscle is inserted. The vagina is long, the oviduct not 

 convoluted. The ovary tongue-shaped as usual. The epididymis 

 is short, the testicle as usual lies in the liver. 



G. palanga has a similar genital system. There appears no 

 locomotive disk and no caudal pore. 



The lingual membrane of the genus has been photographed by 

 Mr. Bland and myself (Am. Journ. of Conch., v. pi. xi. fig. I). 

 All the species now received have similar dentition. There is, 

 however, a difference in the number of teeth in each transverse 

 row. I counted about 37-1-37 in palanga; 6-1-6 in G. Newtoni; 

 12-1-12 in G. mauritiana^ Morelet ; 25-1-25 in G. modiolus, Fer. 

 (Gibbulina, v. Martens). The dentition of this species is also 

 described by Semper (Nachr. Mai. Ges., II. 103). 21-1-21 in G. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Nevilli. We have elsewhere described the dentition of G. sulcata, 

 Miill. (Ann. N. Y. Lye. N. H., x. 222). 



No jaw was found in any of the above, nor in Ennea clavulata, 

 Lam This last sjiecies is placed in s. g. Gulella by von Martens. 

 There were five embryonic shells in the oviduct, proving the 

 species to be viviparous. The dentition is the same as in Gonos- 

 pira. There appears to be a median tooth of same form as the 

 laterals. 



Of the genus Nanina (using the name in the same sense as von 

 Martens in die Heliceen), there were several species. All have the 

 locomotive disk, the caudal pore with overhanging horn-like projec- 

 tion, the smooth jaw with median projection, and the lingual denti- 

 tion of the genus, ^. e., centrals tricuspid, laterals bicuspid, mar- 

 ginals aculeate, bluntly bifid. Such are N. Caldwelli, Benson; N. 

 Baivsonis, Barclay = semicerina, Morelet ; X. argentea, Rve. ; N. 

 implicata, Nevill ; N. stylodon, Pfr., put in Flelix {Erepta) by von 

 Martens. Entirely different in the dentition is another species, N. 

 philyrina, Morelet, though the species agrees in other respects with 

 the above-named. The membrane is very broad, the teeth exceed- 

 ingly numerous, arranged in oblique rows. The centrals, which 

 I am confident of having seen, are small, narrow, high. The other 

 teeth are the same in form to the edge of the membrane. They 

 appear to have the usual aculeate form of the marginal teeth in 

 Nanina, but instead of narrowing towards the cutting point, they 

 are broadly and obliquely truncated, reflected, and minutely den- 

 ticulated. This lingual membrane is also figured by Semper (Phil. 

 Archip., pi. vi. f. 35), but his figures give more the impression of 

 the usual Nanina marginals with denticulated side and bifid jjoints. 

 The teeth are, however, so exceedingly numerous and small, it is 

 very difficult to understand them. 



Elsewhere (Ann. N. Y. Lye. X. H., x. ITO) we have described 

 the lingual of the following Mauritius species : Nanina inversi- 

 color, leucostyla, rufizonata, militaris. I have examined the geni- 

 talia of N. inversicolor. The oviduct is long, narrow, sac-like j 

 the genital bladder is hardly smaller than its long wide duct; the 

 penis sac is long, extended into a flagellum, receiving the vas 

 deferens near its apex, be^'ond it having a bulb-like termination ; 

 the vas deferens is greatly swollen at its middle portion, and near 

 the base of the oviduct has a long flagellate appendix. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 49 



Glandina semitarum, Rang. ( Varicella) . 



Martinique, Governor Rawson. 



Lingual membrane as usual in Glandina. There are about 

 30-1-30 teeth. The central is long and narrow, sharply pointed. 



Glandina Phillipsi, Adams ( Varicella.) . 

 Jamaica. 

 Lingual membrane as in last species. 



Helix clausa, Say [Mesodon). 



Whitley Co., Kentuck3^ A. G. Wctherby. 



Jaw as usual in the subgenus, with about 10 stout, separate 

 ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow. Teeth about 4 1-1-4 L 

 Centrals and laterals (about 11 of the latter), as usual in the sub- 

 genus (see fig. of those of H. Sayi, L. and Fr. w. Shells, I. 154, 

 fig. 265). Marginals quadrate, with one extremely long, oblique 

 denticle, as in H. thyroides (1. c. fig. 252, p. 148). Some of the 

 extreme marginals are notched or obsoletely bifid at their point. 



The penis resembles that of H. thyroides as figured by Dr. 

 Leidy in Terr. Moll. U. S., I. 



Helix Downieana, Bland (Mesodon). 



Whitley Co., Kentucky. A. G. Wetherby. 



Jaw ribbed as usual in the subgenus. Lingual membrane as 

 usual in the subgenus (see fig. 265 of L. and Fr. w. Shells, N. A., 

 I). Marginals with one long, oblique, bluntly bifid inner denticle, 

 and two short, blunt outer denticles. 



Helix Wetherbyi, Bland {Mesodon). 



Whitley Co., Kentucky. A. G. Wetherby. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus (see ante., 

 H. clavsa), the former with about 18 ribs, the latter with mar- 

 ginals peculiar for the great development of the inner blunt den- 

 ticle, the outer being short and blunt. Plate V., fig. IV, 18. 



Helix Edvardsi, Bland {Stenotrema). 



Whitley Co., Kentucky. A. G. Wetherby. 



Jaw as usual in the subgenus (see L. and Fr. w. Shells, N. A., 

 1), with about 13 broad, crowded ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane as in H.hirsuta (1. c. 119, fig. 197). Cen- 

 trals tricuspid, laterals bicuspid, marginals wide, low, with one 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



innei', long, oblique, bluntly bifid denticle, and two outer, short, 

 blunt denticles. 



Helix angulata, Fer. {Eurycratera) . 



Porto Rico. From the late Mr. Robert Swift. 



Jaw stout, dark claret-colored, low, wide, ends blunt; about 7, 

 very wide, crowded, decided ribs, bluntly denticulating either 

 margin. 



Lingual membrane as in the H. crispata (plate X., fig. 9), as far 

 as the general arrangement of the teeth, but there are decidedly 

 developed points to the side cusps of both centrals and laterals; 

 we have therefore figured it (plate IX., fig. 5). 



Helix Texasianna, Mor. (Polygyra) . 



Bosque Co., Texas. Mr. H. W. Ericsson. 



Jaw wide, low, slightly arcuate, ends blunt, with 10 decided 

 ribs, denticulatino; either marofin. 



Lingual membrane (plate V., fig. 1) as usual in the subgenus. 

 Centrals and laterals with a plate about as wide as high, the 

 former tricuspid, the latter bicuspid, cusps long and slender, with 

 long, sharp points. Marginals low, wide, multidentate, the two 

 inner denticles long, the several outer denticles short and slender. 

 Of the same type as figured by us for H. auriculata in L. and Fr. 

 w. Shells, L 87. 



Helix Luquillensis, Shuttl. (Polydorites) . 



The lingual was received mounted from the late Mr. Robert 

 Swift. 



Lingual membrane (plate X., fig. 2-4) as usual in the Helicidae. 

 Centrals tricuspid, laterals bicuspid, cusps with long, sharp 

 points, extending beyond the base of the i^late. Marginals bicus- 

 pid, cusps short, bluntly rounded, the inner one, as usual, the 

 longer. 



We received no jaw of this species. 



Helix notabilis, Shuttl. {Thelidomus). 



Tortola. Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift. 



Jaw arcuate, low, ends blunt ; narrower at the centre ; decided 

 separate ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane already published by us. (Am. Journ. 

 Conch., VL 177 ; see also plate IX., fig. 10). Centrals tricuspid, 

 laterals bicuspid, the plates about as wide as high, the lai-ger 

 cusp with a long point extending beyond the lower margin of the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



plate. Marginals quadrate, of equal width and height, with two 

 short, wide, Munt, round cusps, the inner one slightly the larger. 



Helix discolor, Fer. (Thelidomns). 



Jaw arcuate, thick, ends blunt. Anterior surface with 7 un- 

 equal, decided, stout ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane (plate X.,lig. 1) long and narrow. Centrals 

 with a long narrow plate expanded at the base, and bearing at its 

 corners a small reinforcement ; base of the plate extending be- 

 yond the cusp ; bluntl}^ tricuspid, the median cusp long, stout, 

 with a short blunt point ; side Cusps subobsolete. Laterals as in 

 the centrals, but unsym metrical, and with a shorter plate. Mar- 

 ginals quadrate, wide as higli, with two short, blunt denticles, 

 the inner one slightly the longer. 



Helix lima, Fer. {Thelidomns) . 



Porto I\ico. Received mounted from tbe late Mr. Robert 

 Swift. 



Jaw arcuate, thick, high, ends blunt ; no median projection to 

 the cutting edge. Anterior surface with 7 stout ribs. A strong, 

 thick muscular attachment to the upper margin. 



No lingual membrane received. 



Helix marginella, Gmel. (Caracohts). 



Porto Rico. Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift. 



A portion only of the jaw is preserved on the slide. It appears 

 to be thick, arcuate, with strong transverse lines of reinforce- 

 ment and decided ribs. 



Lingual dentition as in H. excellens (see plate X., fig. 67). 



Helix Chemnitziana, Pfr. (Pleiirodonta). 



Jamaica. Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift. 



Jaw stout, arched, ends attenuated, blunt ; anterior surface 

 with about 6 irregularly disposed ribs, stout and denticulating 

 either margin. 



No lingual membrane received. 



Helix Carmelita, Fer. (Pleurodonta). 



Jamaica. Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift. 



Jaw arcuate, ends blunt, anterior surface with about 6 stout 

 ribs, denticulating either margin. 



Lingual membrane (plate X., fig. 5) as usual in the Helicidse. 

 Central teeth short, bluntly pointed on the middle cusps, the 

 side cusps subobsolete ; laterals like centrals, also with obsolete 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



side cusps ; marginals with oblique bluntly rounded broad cusps, 

 the inner, larger, one bluntly bifid. 



Helix punctata {mix dentimlata), Born. {Dentellaria). 



Martinique. Governor Rawson. 



Jaw stout, arched, ends blunt, catting edge with a blunt me- 

 dian projection, one stout, decided rib on the centre of the jaw, 

 and three less developed separate ribs M each side of it. 



Lingual membrane long and narrow (plate IX., fig. 8). Centrals 

 high and narrow with long, stout median cusps, bearing a point 

 extending nearly to the base of the plate; side cusps subobsolete. 

 Laterals like the centrals, but uns3'mraetrical. Marginals low, 

 wide, subqiiadrate, with one very long, broad, bluntly bifid, 

 oblique denticle, and one smaller, bluntly rounded, side denticle. 



Helix nucleola, Rang. {Dentellaria). 



Martinique. Governor Rawson. 



Jaw thick, arched, ends blunt ; cutting margin with an obtuse 

 median projection. One central, stout rib, denticulating either 

 margin. 



Lingual membrane, as usual in Dentellaria (see H. punctata^ 

 Born), above. 



Helix formosa, Fer. {Dentellaria). 



Antigua. Received mounted from the late Mr. Robert Swift. 



Jaw arched;, ends blunt; several strong, transverse lines of re- 

 inforcement, but no ribs ; a median projection to cutting edge. 



Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus. (See pi. IX., fig. 8, 

 of punctata.^ Born.) 



Helix badia, Fer. {Dentellaria). 



Received mounted from Mr. Swift. 



Jaw stout, arched ; ends blunt, with about eight decided ribs. 

 Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus. (See pi. IX., fig. 8, 

 of H. punctata, Born.) 



Pupa rupicola, Say. 



Ohio. A. G. Wetherby. 



Jaw low, wide, slightly arcuate; ends but little attenuated, 

 blunt ; no median projection to cutting edge. 



Lingual membrane as usual in the genus. (See figures of that 

 of eorticaria, pentodon, and badia in L. & Fr. w. N. A., I.) The 

 cusps on the laterals, however, are very much stouter. There are 

 five perfect laterals. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 53 



StropMa decumana, Fer. 



Castle Island, Bahamas. 



On pi. VIII., fig. 1, will be found figures of the dentition of this 

 species. For full description, see Annals of Ljc. Nat. Hist, of 

 N. Y., X., p. 348. 



Bulimulus chrysalis, Pfr. 



Martinique. Gov. Rawson. 



Jaw of the t3'pe common in Bulimulus^ Ci/lindrella, etc., arcuate, 

 low; ends blunt; thin, transparent ; with eighteen narrow, sepa- 

 rated ribs ; a transverse central line of reinforcement. Attached 

 to the upper margin is a strong triangular membrane of the same 

 consistency and material as the jaw itself, and equally resisting 

 the action of potash, so as readily to be mistaken for the accessory 

 plate of the Succinese. (PI. Y., fig. 11.) 



Lingual membrane (pi. Y. fig. 12, 13) as usual in the Helicinse. 

 Centrals about as broad as long, tricuspid, the median cusp short 

 and stout, its short point not extending to the base of the plate. 

 Laterals like the centrals, but bicuspid. Marginals wide, low, 

 with one inner, long, blunt, stout, oblique denticle, and one or 

 two short, blunt side denticles. 



Bulimulus Vincentimus, Pfr., var. ? (Drymmus), 



Tobago. Jaw as usual in Bulimulus, CyUndr'ella, etc., thin, 

 transparent, with numerous delicate, separated, narrow ribs. 



Lingual membrane as in Bulimulus taiicinctus, etc. (see Ann. 

 N. Y. Lye, X. pi. xi., fig. 1.) 



Bulimulus Knorri, Pfr. (Drymceus). 



Porto Cabello, Yenezuela, ReeeiA^ed mounted from the late Mr. 

 Robert Swift. 



Jaw arched, high, ends attenuated, blunt ; an obtuse median 

 projection to cutting edge; transverse lines of reinforcement, but 

 uo ribs. 



An unusual form of jaw in this genus, though common in many 

 subgenera of Helix. 



Bulimulus Peruvianus, Brug. (Plectostylus) . 



Talcahuana. Museum Comparative Zoologj^ 



Jaw as in Gylindrella, etc., with about thirty delicate ribs ; 

 upper central plate triangular. 



Lingual membrane (pi. Y., fig. 2) combining tlie usual characters 

 of the genus with those peculiar to the group of B. laticinctus 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



(referred to above under B. Vincentinus). The central tooth is 

 higher than wide, tricuspid, the central cusp short, not extending 

 near the base of the tooth. The laterals (5 in numljer) are bi- 

 cuspid, the inner cusp with short, subcircular cutting edge. 

 Marginals of the type of B. laticinctus (1. c). 



Bulimus {Pachyotus) egregius, Jay. 



Brazil. J. G. Anthony. 



No jaw received. 



Lingual membrane as usual in the Helicidae. Centrals and 

 laterals higher than wide, the plates almost extending to the point 

 of the cusps ; central with a large median and small side cusps ; 

 lateral bicuspid, the inner cusp very large, and bluntly poiutevl, 

 the outer cusp very small, and acutely pointed. Marginals quad- 

 rate, about as high as wide, with one wide, very short, blunt 

 inner cusp, and a similar small outer cusp. (PI. YI., fig. 1.) 



Succiuea Barbadeusis, Guild. 



Barbados. Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus. 

 Lithotis rupicola, Blanford. 



Figs. 3-6 of plate V. represent the jaw and lingual dentition of 

 this species, which are fully described in Ann. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. 

 Y., X. 346. 



Erinna Newcombi, A. Adams. . 



Sandwich Islands. 



Figs. *7-10 of plate Y. represent the jaw and lingual dentition of 

 this species, which have been fully described in Ann. of N. Y. Lye. 

 of Nat. Hist., X. p. 349. 



Before closing this paper, I propose reviewing my work on lin- 

 gual dentition and jaws, for the purpose of ascertaining what 

 reliance may be placed on their characters as a basis for subgeueric 

 distinction, in the genera Helix and Bulimus. Oi Buliviulus we 

 cannot 3'et speak with confidence, so poor is our material. 



Sagda. The genus is included in the Vitrinea of von Martens, 

 but we have shown that it belongs to the JSelicea, the marginal 

 teeth being quadrate, not aculeate. 



The jaw has no anterior ribs. In H. Jayana there is an approach 

 to a median projection to the cutting edge, but not in Haldemani- 

 ana or Foremaniana. 



The lingual membrane we have examined in connectens, Jayana, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



and Haldemaniana. We figure that of the latter (plate IX., fig. 4), 

 with which the others agree. The centrals have their plates short 

 in comparison to the reflection, and broad. The middle cusp is 

 long, with a long slender point. The side cusps are subobsolete, 

 with short, acute, triangular points. The laterals are of same 

 type as centrals, but bicuspid,theouter cusp more developed than 

 the external cusps of the centrals. The marginals are wide, low, 

 with one long, oblique, blunt, narrow inner cusp, and one or more 

 side, small cusps. The dentition and jaw of this species are fully 

 described in Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 115; S. connectens in Ibid. 

 175 ; S. Jayana in Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 219. 



Leucochroa. We have shown L. Boissieri, Charp., to belong 

 to Helicea and not to Vifrinea, and expressed our belief that the 

 same will prove true of candidissima. (See Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 

 220.) We now figure the dentition (plate IX., fig. 3). The jaw is 

 ribless, with a median projection. 



Microphysa is put in Helicea by von Martens. //. minuscula 

 (see L. and Fr, w. Shells) and circumfirmata, Redf. (N. Y. Ann., 

 X. 231), both belong to Vitrinea, having aculeate marginal teeth, 

 and jaw of Zonites. H. turhiniformis^ Pfr. (Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 

 79, pi. ii. fig. 2) has a jaw as in Cylindrella, Bulimulus, etc. i. e. 

 with numerous very delicate, distant ribs, giving the appearance 

 of separate plates. It would be put in Goniognatha of Morch, 

 though there are no upper triangular median plates. We here 

 figure the lingual dentition (plate IX., fig. 7). 



For Pafula, Gonostoma, Polygyra, Polygyrella, Stenotrema, 

 Triodopsis, Mesodon, Acanthinida, Vallonia, Aglaja, Ai'ionta, 

 Euparypha^ Tachea, Pomatia, Glyptostoma^ see L. and Fr. w. 

 Shells N. A., I., and our various papers on dentition. 



Dorcasia is known to us only by one species, H. similaris, Fer. 

 (see Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 176). The jaw has eight decided 

 ribs. I figure the lingual dentition (plate IX., fig. 6). 



Fruticicola is known to us only by H. griseola, Pfr. (see Proc. 

 Phila. Ac. N". S. 1873, 243). The dentition I now figure (plate X., 

 fig. 11). 



Goryda. We have described the lingual membrane only of this 

 subgenus, and that in only one species, H. Gossei, Pfr. (Am. 

 Journ. Conch., VII. 177). We figure it on plate IX., fig. 2. The 

 centrals have long, narrow plates, a very short reflection, with a 

 short, blunt median cusp and obsolete side cusps. Laterals like 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



centrals, but uns3'mmetrical. Marginals quadrate, with one broad, 

 oblique, long, bluntly bifid inner cusp, and one or two very short 

 rounded side cusps. 



ThelidomiiH. We have examined H. aspera, Fer. (Am. Journ. 

 Conch., YI. 204); discolor, Fer. (ante, p. 51); notahilis, Shuttl. 

 (Amer. Journ. Conch., VII. 177); Zi?na, Fer. (ante, p. 51); and 

 provisoria, Pfr. (Ann. Lye. N. Y., x. 347). 



There are 8 decided stout ribs on the jaw of aspera, 7 on that 

 of discolor and lima, on provisoria we find 10-15 ribs, less decided 

 than in the other two species. 



I figure the lingual dentition of H. discolor (plate X., fig. 1). 

 H. aspera agrees with it. The marginal teeth of provisoria and 

 notahilis agree with those of aspera and discolor, but as the centrals 

 and laterals differ in the shape of the plates and the development 

 of the cusps, I also figure the central and lateral of nofabilis 

 (plate IX., fig. 10), with which prouz'soWa agrees. 



Cysticopsis we know by tumida, Pfr., and pemphigodes, Pfr. 

 For description and figure of the former see Ann, N. Y^. L3'C. 

 N. H., IX. 213, f. 3 ; Am. Journ. Conch., YI. 203, f. 1. Finding the 

 dentition o^ pemphigodes to be ditferent (Am. Journ. Conch., YII. 

 177) I here figure it (plate IX., fig. 1). 



Plagioptycha. We have published iT". ?oa;o(7on, Pfr., Albersiana, 

 Pfi'., monodonta, Lea, diaphayia, Lea, and macroglossa. (See Am. 

 Journ. Conch., YII. 177, 178.) The}' all agree in having a ribless 

 jaw with blunt median projection to cutting edge, and in dentition 

 such as I figure for H. macroglossa, Pfr. (plate X., fig. 10). 



Pohjmita We have elsewhere (Ann. N. Y. L3'C., x. 341) pointed 

 out the necessit}^ of revising this subgenus. The t3'pical species 

 muscarum, and H. pticta which must be removed to it from Lio- 

 chila, have a ribless jaw without median projection to the cutting 

 margin (see Am. Journ. Conch., YI. 204, pi. IX., f. 4, 10). The 

 lingual dentition of both species agrees (see ibid, and Ann. X. Y". 

 L3'C., X. pi. xvi. fig. 14). It is entirel3' diflerent from that of an3- 

 species now known. 



Hemilrochus must be used as the name for the balance of the 

 subgenus Polymila of von Martens. We have examined varians, 

 Mke. (Amer. Journ. Conch., YII. 206, and L. and Fr. w. Shells, I. 

 185) ; Troscheli, Pfr. (Ann. X. Y^. L3-c., x. 343); graminicola. Ad. 

 (Am. Journ. Conch., YII. 178) ; gallop)avonis, Yal. 343. (N. Y. Am. 

 X. 343.) All agree in having an arched ribless jaw with blunt 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5Y 



median projection. All have lingual dentition such as I figure 

 of graminicola (plate X., fig. 8). 



Liochila. As stated already (p. 56) H. picta, Born, must be 

 removed from this subgenus to Po/^?ni7a, probably also H. sulphu- 

 rosa., Mor. 



Eurycratera has decided stout ribs on its jaw. We have seen 

 n. crispata, Fer. (Am. Journ. Conch., YII. n9), and H. arigulata, 

 Fer. (this paper, p. 50). The lingual dentition is essentially the 

 same in each, but on account of diff"erence in the development of 

 the points of the side cusp, I figure that of each (pi. IX. fig. 5; 

 pi. X. fig. 9). 



Pohjdontes has the same type of dentition, as in the last sub- 

 genus, as shown in my figure of //. Luquillensis, Shuttl. (plate X., 

 fig. 2-4) the only species examined by us. Jaw not seen. 



Stylodon We have shown H. milifaris, Pfr. to be a Nanina 

 (Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 169). Other species unexamined by us. 



Erepta. The same may be said of H. stylodon, Pfr. (see ante, p. 

 48), and leucostyla, Pfr., and rujizonata, H. Ad. (Ann. N. Y. Lye, 

 X. 169), all Mauritius species. 



Dentellaria We have examined a large proportion of tlie 



known species. The jaw varies somewhat, so that each descrip- 

 tion should be studied. There seems a tendenc3'^to a median pro- 

 jection to the cutting edge, and to the presence of ribs. H.pachy- 

 gastra. Gray (Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 305) has 7 decided ribs and no 

 median projection. H. orbiculata, Fer. (Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 

 205, pi. ix. f. 14) has traces of ribs and no median projection. H. 

 Isabella, Fer. (i.e. YII. 179) has decided ribs and no median i)ro- 

 jection. H.dentiens, Fer. (Am. Journ. Conch., YII. 179) has de- 

 cided ril)s and no median projection. H. nueleola, Rang (ante, 

 p. 52) has one decided rib and a median projection. H. hadia 

 (ante, p. 52) has 8 decided ribs. H. formosa, Fer. (ante, p. 52) 

 has no ribs, but a strong median projection. H. perplexa, Fer. 

 (Ann. X. Y. Lye., x. 221) has obsolete ribsand median projection. 

 H. lychnuchus, same as last (Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 221, pi. xiv. f. 5, 

 7). H. punctata, Born (ante, p. 52) has median projection and 

 decided ribs. H. Josephinx, Fer. (Ann. N. Y. Lye, x. 306) is 

 strongl}^ arched, has no ribs, but a median projection. 



All the above species agree in their dentition. See figure of 

 that of lychnuchiis (1. e) and of punctata (plate IX., fig. 8 of this 

 paper.) 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Pleurodonta The jaw in Ghemnitziana ^ Pfr. (ante, p. 51) has 



T stout, seijarated ribs ; Carmelita, Few has 6 (ante, p. 51); acuta. 

 Lam. (Amer. Journ. Conch., VI. 204) has 1 ribs. 



Tlie linoual membrane is the same as I fio-nre for Carmelita 

 (plate X., fig. 5) in Schroteriana (Amer. Journ. Conch., VII. 179), 

 in invalida, Ad. (Ann. N. Y. Lj-c, x. ITO). In acuta^ Lam. the 

 centrals and laterals are of the same type, but the marginals have 

 only one long, wide, blunt denticle, slightly bifid at end. In this 

 respect it is more like Caracolus than the other species of Pleuro- 

 donta examined by us. 



Caracolus. We have shown H. Bermudensis, Pfr. (Ann. N. Y. 

 Lye, X. 221) to belong to Vitrininse ; H. inversicolor (1. c. x. 169) 

 to Nanina. 



The jaw in H. marginella^ Gmel. (ante, p. 51) appears to be 

 ribbed. 



I figure (plate X,, fig. G-T) the lingual dentition of H. excel- 

 lens, Pfr. (Am. Journ. Conch. VII. 180). H. marginella, Gmel. 

 agrees with it, excepting that the cusps of the marginals are 

 shorter. 



Leptoloma. We have described only H. fuscocincta, Ad. (Am. 

 Journ. Conch., VII. 180). The jaw has a median projection, but 

 no ribs. Tiie lingual I figure on plate IX., fig. 9. 



Acavus. H. phcenix^ Pfr. has a ribless jaw (Am. Journ. Conch., 

 VII. 180). Its dentition is figured on plate IX., fig. 11. 



In Bulimus we have examined the following genera: 



Macrodontes we know by B. odontostomos (Am. Journ. Conch., 

 VI. 209). The jaw is ribless. The dentition is figured on plate VI., 

 fig. 1. 



Pelecychilus we know from B. au7'issileni, Born (Ann. Lye. N. 

 H. N. Y., X. 229), and B. glaber, Gmel. (not before published) ; both 

 have delicate ribs as in Bulimulus, Cylwdrella, etc. The denti- 

 tion of the former is given on plate VI., fig. 4 ; of the latter on 

 plate VI., fig. 6. 



Anihinus we know from B. multicolor^ Rang (Am. Journ. 

 Conch., VI. 208). The jaw is ribless. Lingual dentition given on 

 plate VI., fig. 8. 



Pachyotus we know from B. egregius, Jay (see this paper, p. 54). 

 Jaw not examined. Lingual dentition figured on plate VI., fig. 1. 



Bonis. We have examined B. oblongus^ Mull. Its ribbed jaw 

 and lingual dentition are figured by Heynemann (Mai. Blatt., xv.). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Of Orphnus we have examined one species, B. Hanleyi, Pfr. 

 (Ara, Jouvn. Conch., YI. 208). The jaw is ribless, with a median 

 projection. The lingual dentition is given on plate VI., fig. 5. 



Dryptus we have examined in two species, B. pardalis, Fdr. 

 (Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 181) and B. marmoratus, Dunk. (1. c). 

 The jaw of the latter is unknown. In the former it is ribbed. 

 The lingual dentition of i?. marmoratus is given on plate VI., fig. 2. 

 In B. pardalis it has not been examined. 



Eurytus we know from only one species, B. aiilacosfylus, Pfr. 

 (Ann. Lye. N. H. N". Y., x. 282). The jaw has delicate ribs as in 

 Bulimulus, Cylindrella, etc. The lingual dentition is given on 

 plate VI., fig. 3. 



A comparison of the figures I have given of the lingual denti- 

 tion of the subgenera of Bulimus shows a greater constancy in 

 that genus than in Helix, especially as regards the marginal 

 teeth. 



I add a figure of the dentition of Gochlostyla fulgetrum, Brod. 

 (plate v., figs. 14-16). See Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



Plate II. 



A. Ariolimax NIGER, J. G. Cooper. The tail enlarged to show 



the caudal mucus pore. From the type in the California State 

 Collection, preserved in spirit. 



B. Ariolimax Columbianus? The tail, slightly enlarged, of a 



specimen from Mr. Hemphill (see p. 35) showing the mucus 

 pore. It must be borne in mind that the specimen has long 

 been preserved in spirit. 



C. Ariolimax Columbianus? A specimen from San Mateo Co., 



California, received from Mr. Henry Hemphill (see p. 38). 

 The genitalia about life size. 



1. The testicle. 



2. The epididymis. 



3. The accessory gland of the last ? 



4. The prostate gland. 



5. The sac of the penis. 



6. The retractor muscle of the penis. 

 T. The vas deferens. 



8. The oviduct. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



9. The genital bladder. 



10. The external orifice of the genitalia. 



11. The ovar3^ , 



16. The duct of the genital bladder. 



D. A portion of the digestive organs of the same. 



1. The buccal mass. 



2. The oesophagus. 



3. 3. The ducts of the salivar}- glands. 



4. 4. The salivary glands. 



5. The pouch of tlie lingual membrane. 



E. The same; an extreme marginal tooth of the lingual mem- 



brane. 

 r. Same as last life size. 

 1-4. See fig. D. 



5. The stomach. 



6. The blind sac of the same. 

 T, T. The biliar^^ ducts. 



8. The intestine. 



9. The rectum. 



G. The same. The rudimentarj' internal shell. 

 H. The same. The jaw. 



Plate III. 



Fig. I. ZoNiTES L^viGATUS, Raf. The genital S3'stem. Same re- 

 ferences as in pi. II. fig. c. 



13. Dart sac? See p. 39. 



Fig. II. Helix reticulata, Pfr. ^ ramentosa, Gld. Genital system. 

 Same references as in fig. 1. 



13. Yaginal prostate. 

 13a, o. riagella of same. 

 15. Flagellum of penis. 



16a. Accessory to duct of genital bladder. 



Fig. III. Helix Mitchelliana, Lea. Genital system. Same re- 

 ferences as in fig. I. 



Fig. lY. Helix Kelletti, Forbes. Genital system. Same re- 

 ferences as in fig. II. 



14. Dart sac? See page 40. 



Fig. Y. Hemphillia glandulosa. Genital system. Same refer- 

 ences as in fig. I. 

 Fig. YI. The same. See page 39 for 5a and 56. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Plate IV. 



Fig. I. Genitalia of Macrocyclis Vancouverensis, Lea. 



1. Testicle. 



2. Epididymis. 



3. Accessory gland. 



4. Prostate. 



5. Sac of penis. 



7. Yas deferens. 



8. Oviduct. 



9. Genital bladder. 



10. External orifice. 



11. Ovary. 



14. Dart sac? vaginal prostate? 

 16. Duct of genital bladder. 



Fig. II. Genitalia of Patula strigosa, Gld. Same references as 



in fig. I. 

 Fig. III. Genitalia of Helix Nickliniana, Lea. Same references 



as in fig. I. 



6. Retractor muscle of penis. 

 13. Vaginal prostate. 



13a. Fiagellum to last. 



15. Fiagellum to penis. 



16a. Accessory duct to the genital bladder. 

 Fig. IV. Genitalia of Helix appressa, Say. Same references as 



in fig. I. 

 Fior. V. Genitalia of H. Roemeri, Pfr. Same references as in fig. 



I. 



Plate V. 



Fig. 1. Lingual dentition of Helix Texasiana, Mor. Central, 



lateral, and marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 2. Same of Bulimulus Peruvianus, Brug. 

 Fig. 3. LiTHOTis rupicola, B1. Jaw. 

 Fig. 4. Same ; central and lateral teeth. 

 Fig. 5. Same ; marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 6. Same ; extreme marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 7. Erinna Newcombi, A. Ad. Jaw. 

 Fig. 8. Same ; central and lateral teeth. 

 Fig. 9. Same ; marginal teeth. 

 Fig. 10. Same; extreme marginal teeth. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Fig. 11. BuLiMULUs CHRYSALIS, Pfr. Jaw. 



Fig. 12. Same ; central and lateral teeth. 



Fig. 13. Same ; nmrginal teeth. 



Fig. 14. CocHLOSTYLA FULGETRUM, Brocl. {C anistrum) ] central and 



lateral teeth. 

 Fig. 15. Same ; first marginal teeth. 

 Fig. IG. Same; extreme marginal teeth. 



Fig. 17. Helix Wetherbyi, Bland ; central and lateral teeth. 

 Fig. 18. Same; marginal teeth. 



Plate YI. 



Central, lateral, and marginal teeth of 

 Fig. 1. BuLiMUS EGREGius, Jay (Pachyotus). 

 Fig. 2. MARMORATUS, Dunk. {Dryptus). 



Fig. 3. AULACOSTYLUS, Pfr. (Eurytns). 



Fig. 4. AURis-SiLENi, Born (Pelecychilus). 



Fig. 5. Hanleyanus, Pfr. (Oiyhnus). 



Fig. 6. GLABER, Gmel. (Pelecychilus). 



Fig. 7. ODONTOSTOMus, Sowb. {3Iacrodontes). 



Fig. 8. MULTICOLOR, Rang. [Anthinus). 



Plate VII. 



Fig. A. Amphibulima patula, Briig. Dominica. 

 Fig. B. Same, to show variations in cusps of laterals. 

 Fig. C. Amphibulima patula. St. Kitts, see p. 44. 



Plate YIII. 



Fig. 1. Strophia decumana, a. Central and lateral teeth ; b. mar- 

 ginal teeth. 



Fig. 2. Amphibulima rubescens, Desh. Jaw. 



Fig. 3. Same. Lingual membrane, a. Central and lateral teeth ; 

 b. marginal teeth ; c. extreme marginal teeth. 



Fig. 4. Same. Genitalia. 



Fig. 5. Amphibulima appendiculata, Pfr. Genitalia. 



Fig. 6. Same. Lingual membrane, a. Central and lateral teeth ; 

 b. marginal teeth. 



Fig. 7. GoNospiRA Newtoni, H. Ad. Genitalia. 



Plate IX. 



Lingual dentition ; central, lateral, and marginal teeth of 

 Fig. 1. Helix pemphigodes, Pfr., Gysiicopsis. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Fig, 2. Helix Gossei, Pfi-., Coryda. 

 Fig. 3. Helix Boissieri, Cliavp., Leucochroa. 

 Fig. 4. Helix Haldemaniana, Ad., Sagda. 

 Fig. 5. Helix angulata, F^r., Eury crater a. 

 Fig. 6. Helix similaris, Fer., Dorcasia. 

 Fig. 7. Helix turbinifornis, Ffr., Microphysa. 

 Fig. 8. Helix punctata, Born, Dentellaria. 

 Fig. 9. Helix fuscocincta, Ad., Leptoloma. 

 Fig. 10. Helix notabilis, Fer., Thelidomus. 

 Fig. 11. Helix phcenix, Pfr., Acavua. 



Plate X. 



Central, lateral, and marginal teeth of lingual membrane of 

 Fig. 1. Helix discolor, Fer., Thelidomus, 

 Fig. 2, 3, 4. Helix luguillensis, Shuttl., Polydontes. 

 Fig. 5. Helix Carmelita, Fer., Pleurodonta. 

 Fig. 6, 7. Helix excellens, Pfr., Garacolua. 

 Fig. 8. Helix graminicola. Ad., PoJymita. 

 Fig. 9. Helix crispata, Fer., Eury crater a. 

 Fig. 10. Helix macroglossa, Pfr., Plagiopfycha. 

 Fig. 11. Helix griseola, Pfr., Fruticicola. 



Plate XI. 



A. Ariolimax NIGER, J. G. Coop. From the type in the Califor- 



nia State collection. Extreme marginal teeth from the lingual 

 membrane. 



B. Same as last. The central tooth and first lateral teeth. 



C. Same as last. The oenitalia enlarged. References same as 



in fig. C. of plate II. 



13. The vaginal prostate. 



D. Ariolimax Californicus? From a specimen from San Mateo, 



Cal., in the Museum of Comparative Zoology. The genitalia 

 slightly enlarged. Same references as in last figure, except- 

 ing 15, the flagellum. 



E. Same as last. The digestive organs, life size. Same references 



as in fig. F. of plate II. 



F. The same. 1. Central tooth; 2. first lateral tooth of the lin- 



gual membrane. 



G. The same. Extreme marginal tooth of the lingual membrane. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTION OF SOME SPECIES OF REPTILES OBTAINED BY DR. JOHN 

 F. BRANSFORD, ASSISTANT SURGEON UNITED STATES NAVY, WHILE 

 ATTACHED TO THE NICARAGUAN SURVEYING EXPEDITION IN 1873. 



BY EDWARD D. COPE, A.M. 



The collection, though not large, embraces a number of inter- 

 esting new and rare species besides those usually obtained in the 

 region of Nicaragua. The whole number is twenty-eight, distri- 

 buted as follows: serpents 12, lizards 9, tortoise 1, and Batrachia 

 6. Several interesting points in geographical distribution are 

 established. I have added descriptions of three new snakes, one 

 from near the same, and two from more southern localities. 



OPHIDIA. 



PlioceroTis dimidiatus, Cope. 

 Ophibolus micropholis, Cope. 

 Spilotes puUatus, L. var. 



Of the typical form ; scales in fifteen or sixteen rows, the outer 

 smaller, several median considerably enlarged, the more central 

 only faintly keeled; generally biporous. Only seven superior 

 labials, the e^ye over the fourth and chiefly the fifth ; sixth and 

 seventh much enlarged, and nearly reaching the parietal shield, 

 being only separated by a single narrow temporal each. Orbitals 

 1-2, the anterior nearly reaching the frontal. Loreal small, longer 

 than high ; nasals two, quite elongate. Frontal longer than wide, 

 with broad front and concave sides. Parietals wide, truncate, 

 followed by four scuta, the two outer the larger. Temporals 1-1 

 or 1-1-1. Inferior labials eight or nine, separated from the ante- 

 rior gastrosteges by two rows of elongate scales on each side, in 

 continuation of the geneials. 



The general form is elongate ; head a long oval ; muzzle not 

 prominent. Gastrosteges 220; an entire anal; mosteges 118. 



General color black ; near the middle of the length yellow spots 

 appear at intervals on the belly, and increase in extent and fre- 

 quenc}^ until they occupy most of the space anteriorly. On the 

 upper surface a few 3'ellow spots appear at remote intervals on 

 the anterior half. A yellow band extends across the occiput 

 from angle to angle of the mouth, and one across behind the or- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



bits. There are large yellow spots on the frontal and snpercilia- 

 ries, and the prefontals and labials are yellow-black bordered. 



Masticophis pulcherrimus, sp. nov. 



Scales in quincunx, in seventeen subeqnal series, all smooth, 

 many of them with two apical pores. Teeth subequal, without 

 noticeable diastemata. Form very slender ; tail one-third the total 

 length. Gastrosteges weakly angulated, anal divided. Head flat, 

 rostral low ; loreal twice as long as high ; prefontal not reaching 

 frontal, which is quite narrow ; occipitals wide oval. Temporals 

 2-2-1-2 and 2-1-1-2. Superior labials nine, fourth, fifth, and 

 sixth bounding orbit. Geneials slender. Total length m. .875 ; 

 tail .285 ; gastrosteges .205 ; urosteges .152. 



Ground color clay-white; a black band occupying two and two 

 half rows of scales extends on each side from the orbit to the 

 end of the tail. The dorsal interval is one and two half scales in 

 width, and was j-ellowish or reddish in life, except anteriorly, 

 where it is an emerald-green. This brilliant color extends over 

 the entire top of the head. Lips white. 



This species is as slender as, and is partially colored as, some of 

 the tree-snakes of the genus Ahsetulla. From a small collection 

 made on the "western side of Central America" by Prof George 

 Davidson, which also contains EJcrps viigrocinctus, Gir., Trimor- 

 phodon major, Cope, Boa eques Eyd-Soul. 



Oxybelis acuminatus, Wied. 



Ahaetulla bilineata, Gthr. Diplotropis Ulineatus Gthr. Ann. Magaz. Nat. Hist., 



1872, p. 24. 

 Ahsetulla mexicana, D. B. 

 Leptodira annulata, L. var. 

 Dipsas cenchoa, L. 

 Leptognathus atypicus, sp. nov. 



Belonging to sec. vi. of my monograph of this genus,^ that is, 

 with smooth equal scales, and short geneials separated b^' but 

 one pair of labials from the syniphyseals. The body is rather 

 stout, and, unlike most of the genus, nearl^^ cylindric ; the neck 

 is not contracted, but the head is wide and flat, and the muzzle 

 short. Scales rather wide; in fifteen rows. Kostral plate subtri- 

 angular; a subquadrate loreal; no preocular; postoculars 2; tem- 

 porals 2X3. Frontal and parietals broad and short, the latter 

 truncate. Superior labials six, eye over third and fourth, fifth 



' Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, p. 107. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and sixth elongate. Inferior labials ten, mostly transverse ; four 

 pairs of geneials, all except the first broader than long. Tail short, 

 m. .047 in length, from a total of ni. .243. 



Color pale, with black transverse spots, which are wide ante- 

 riorly (the second covers seven transverse rows of scales) and 

 become gradually narrower, having a width of only two cross-rows 

 on the hinder part of the body. Posteriorly their lateral ends 

 are broken off, and alternate Avith the dorsal portion. A few small 

 blotclies on the ends of the gastrosteges. 



This serpent and two fishes were presented to the Academ}' of 

 Natural Sciences with the statement that they wei'e derived from 

 some portion of the Peruvian Andes, from an elevation of twelve 

 thousand feet. One of the fishes is Trichomycterus dispar, C. Y., 

 and the other is described below as Protistius semotilus} 



' Protistius semotilus, gen. et sp. nov. 

 Family ?MugilidfB. 



First dorsal fin represented by a single rudimental spiue ; second ori- 

 ginating a little behind the line of the first anal radii. Ventrals present ; 

 lateral line rudimental. Mouth bordered above by the premaxillary only, 

 whicli supports a band of rather large bristle -like teeth, those of the outer 

 series the largest. Dentary bones with strong symphj'sis, with a band of 

 teeth like those of the premaxillary. Swim-bladder present ; alimentary 

 canal short, simple. 



Char. Sjjecif. Snout conical both from the lateral and vertical views. 

 Premaxillary bone viewed from above, wide and angular crescentlc ; top 

 of head moderately convex in cross section, its integument not separated 

 by a fold from the premaxillary. Lower jaw horizontal and angulated at 

 the rictus, and symphysis, as in the genus Mugil. Pectoral fin elevated, 

 rather short, the ventral commencing below its apex. Fin radii D. I. 1. 10 ; 

 P. 15; V. 5; A. I. 13; C. forked 2-J-8 94-2. Scales 48117; lateral 

 line very imperfect ; isolated tubes visible at various points between scapula 

 and tail. Head a little more than four times in length minus caudal fin ; 

 depth of body 5.5 times in the same ; caudal peduncle deep. Eye with 

 round adipose margins, 4.75 times in length of head, and twice in inter- 

 orbital width. Top of head, opercula, and cheeks entirely scaled, the latter 

 in four rows. 



Above olivaceous, below yellow, a broad lead-colored lateral band on the 

 posterior .66 of the length. 



Length to opercular border m. .027, to ventral fins .052, to first dorsal 

 .066, to second dorsal .078 to end of caudal fin .140, all axially measured. 



There are three gills and a half, and no pseudobranchus ; the first bran- 

 chial arch is the only one furnished with rakers. Branchiostegal radii six. 



In its physiognomy this fish is intermediate between that of the MugilidcB 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6t 



Leptognathus nebulatus, L. 

 Elaps nigrocinctus, Gird. 

 Bothrops atrox, L. 

 Teleuraspis schlegelii, Berth. 



Yellow variety with short superciliary horns. 



LACERTILIA. 



Anolis bransfordii, sp. nov. 



Abdominal scales smooth, pavement-like, longer than the dorsal 

 and lateral scales, which are small, subequal, and smooth. Scales 

 of tail subequal, carinate. Muzzle medium, shorter (from eye) 

 than wide at orbits. Auricular meatus large, fully half of eye. 

 Facial rugse obsolete, bounding a distinct cavity, Avhich is covered 

 b}'^ smooth scales of the size of those on the remaining portions of 

 the muzzle, in six longitudinal series. Superciliaries wide, sepa- 

 rated from each other by one, and from the large occipital bj' 

 two rows of scales. Twelve supraorbital scuta keeled ; six loreal 

 rows ; fan little developed. Infralabials equal, small. Limbs 

 slender, the anterior extending to the groin, the posterior to the 

 end of the muzzle ; dilatations well developed. Brachial and 

 femoral scales equal ventral. Tail long and slender. 



Color above golden-lead color, beneath silvery, the line of sepa- 

 ration defined from the orbit to the groin. No cress bands on 

 head or body ; front brown speckled ; feet blackish. 



and that of Cyprinodontidoi. The form and scaling of the head and mouth, 

 with the small sphious dorsal, are very similar to those of the Mugils, while 

 the posterior position of the ventral fins and supporting bones, with the 

 simple stomach and intestine, are characters of the latter family. I was 

 unable to find any ductus pneumaticus, and if it exist it must be very slender. 



The weight of evidence is in favor of referring this genus to the Cyprino- 

 dontido}, and should its only dorsal spine occasionally be wanting, the refer- 

 ence will be less inappropriate than might at first appear. 



The rudimental dorsal consists of a short (.003 m.) spine, but little ele- 

 vated above the doi-sal line on account of the small extent of the membrane 

 VFhich binds it. It is well separated from the second dorsal. 



This fish must be regarded as an interesting annectaut form between types 

 usually placed in the distinct divisions of Physostomi and Physoclysti. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



M. 



LcDgtli from end muzzle to eye 0057 



" " " ear 0105 



" " " axilla . . '. . .0170 



" " ' groin 0350 



" " " end of tail . . . .1190 



This species resembles both tlie A. lo7igicaudus, Hallow., and A. 

 trochilas., Cope.' From the former it differs in the smooth abdo- 

 minal scales, large auricular meatus, etc.; resembling more the 

 latter. In A. frochilus^ a line specimen of which accompanies the 

 collection, the scales of the frontal area are much smaller, form- 

 ing nine rows ; four rows separate the superciliaries from each 

 other and from the occipital. The muzzle is longer, and the head 

 is marked with brown chevrons and cross-bands. 



Dedicated to Dr. Bransford, who has been successful in his 

 zoological investigations in connection with the expedition. 



Anolis trochilus, Cope. 



A female, with a single larsie e^g in each oviduct. 



Anolis cupreus, Hallow. 

 Anolis biporcatus, Wiegm. 



The most southern locality recorded for this species. 



Anolis pentaprion, Cope. 



The most northern locality yet discovered for this Anolis. 



Chamaeleopsis hernandezii, Weig. 

 Stenodactylus fuscus, Hall. 

 Sphaerodactylus glaucus, Cope. 

 Amiva eutropia, Cope. 



TESTUDIXATA. 



Einosternum leucostomum, Duui. 



BATRACHIA. 



Bufo sternosignatus, Gthr. 

 Bufo, sp- 



Dendrobates auratus, Girard. 

 Dendrobates Ignitus, sp. nov. 



First finger shorter than second ; end of the tarsus of the 

 extended foot reaching the end of the muzzle. Membranura tyra- 

 pani visible, one-fifth the eye slit in extent ; muzzle little promi- 

 nent, as long as eye measured on the side. Derm of the back 



' Proceed. Acad. Sci. Phila., 1871, 215. 




. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ;,69 



rather thick and glandular in fresh specimens ; of the belly and 

 limbs smooth. Color, vermilion red, all four limbs black, in 

 four specimens. In a fifth which represents a variet}', the red 

 is replaced on the upper surfaces of the body and femur by a 

 pink, which is thickly black speckled ; the faces of all the limbs, 

 which are concealed when the latter are drawn up, are vermilion. 

 Size small. 



M. 



Length from end muzzle to axilla .... 0.0095 



" " " " vent 0115 



" of fore limb 0138 



" of hind limb 03.")3 



" of hind foot . .0120 



Width at tympana .OOGO 



" of sacrum 0040 



Hyla ebraccata, sp. nov. 



Of the type of H. leiicopJiyUata, and perhaps to be regarded as 

 a color variety of it. It is a very distinct one and probably 

 geographically circumscribed, and hence until intermediate forms 

 are discovered, may be considered as a species. Head broad, 

 short, lores nearly vertical. Tympanum one-fifth orl)it; skin 

 above perfectly smootli. Fingers i)almate to end of first pha- 

 lange, toes to end of second. Tongue little free behind ; vome- 

 rine teeth in fasciculi opposite anterior margin of nares. The 

 heel extends to beyond the muzzle, which marks the middle of 

 the forearm. Color above very light golden-brown ; a deep brown 

 triangular spot between the eyes, whose apex is produced back- 

 wards to a similar large spot on the back. A purplish-brown 

 band from the end of the muzzle to the end of the cocc^'x, which 

 fades below into the white of the belly. Edges of the upper lip 

 white marked; a large yellow spot telow the eye, and small yel- 

 low spots in the lateral band. On the foreleg, tlie humerus like 

 the forearm is brown above, silver spotted. On the hind leg, the 

 femur is entirely colorless ; tibia is brown with silver bands and 

 spots ; bases of all the toes colored. Fingers uncolored except 

 on the metacarpus. Belly yellow. Length of head and body 29 

 mm., width head 11 mm. Length hind leg 51 mm., to hind foot 

 22 mm. 



Hypsiboas xerophyllum, Dura. Bibr. 



Differing slightl}- from the typical form Surinam ; probably 

 a geographical variety. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



\ 



APPENDIX. 



Propus vermiformis, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. Family Ghalcididae. Scales smooth, in anniili ; 

 a lateral longitudinal fold. Limbs one pair, the anterior only, 

 without digits or claws. A few pores at the side of the vent. 

 Head shields above, two internasals, one frontal, a narrow super- 

 ciliary which descends in front of each e3'e, and a pair of parie- 

 tals. Nostrils on the suture between intern asal and first labial; 

 a loreal shield. Tail elongate. 



This genus is near to the Ophiognomon^ discovered by Prof. 

 Orton in Equador, and is principally distinguished from it by the 

 absence of the posterior limbs. 



Char. Sjyecijic. Scales in twenty-six longitudinal rows on the 

 posterior, and twenty rows on the anterior part (with closed 

 lateral folds) of the body, and fifty-one transverse annuli between 

 the nape and the vent. Anteriorly they are imbricate on the 

 dorsal surface ; posteriorly they are truncate. The abdominal and 

 thoracic scales are subequal, those of the seventh row from the 

 gular groove excepted, which embrace two between the fore limbs, 

 and are not longer but wider than the others, but not so wide as 

 long. 



There are five upper labial plates, of which the third and 

 fourth are of subequal length, and bound the orbit below ; .the 

 second is the least. A large rhombic temporal separates the 

 fourth and fifth from the parietals, behind which are two others. 

 There are four narrow inferior labials and three infralabials, of 

 which the two anterior are in contact on the middle line, with 

 those of the opposite side. They are preceded by a large geneial 

 and small symphyseal. The last infralabials are separated from 

 each other by four narrower scuta and from the temporal on each 

 side by two scales. Two pores on each side of the vent, and three 

 elongated scuta in front of it. Tail subquadrate in section (per- 

 haps contracted). 



' Cope, Proceedings Academy, Philadelphia, 1868, p. 100. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. *?! 



M 



Length of head and body 064 



" of head ' . . .006 



Width of head ' . . .004 



Length of tail (extremity lost) OHS 



" of fore limb . 0027 



Color, a dark reddish-brown; a dorsolateral series of pale spots 

 one each side, separated by an average width of eiglic scales. 



From Xauta on the Peruvian Amazon ; obtained by Professor 

 Orton. Various peculiarities distinguish this little saurian from 

 the Opliiognomon Irisanale, among which are the more numerous 

 scales, and mutual contact of the second pair of infralabials. 



Gerrhosteus prosopis, gen. et sp. nov. 



Dentition opisthoglyph ; cranial scuta normal except that the 

 prefrontals are united into a continuous shield. A loreal and a 

 preocular ; pupil vertical. Anal scutum undivided;- subcaudals 

 two ro'wed. Scales poreless, smooth, subequal. The neural 

 spines of the vertebrae each supporting a shield-like expansion, 

 giving a T-shaped cross section, which is divided by a median 

 groove. 



This genus is the first of the Ophidia known to possess the 

 osseous expansions common to some genera of Batrachia, etc., of 

 the western tropical part of the Neotropical region, and the mio- 

 cene salamanders of the genus Chelotriton^ Pom. The great de- 

 velopment of the neural spine is not nnlike that seen in frogs of 

 the genus Dendrohaten^ which are characteristic of this region. 

 The series of closel}^ consecutive bony parallelograms, forms an 

 elevated rib throughout the length of the animal, which is clearly 

 visible through the skin, which is not involved in it, though thiu 

 and closely adherent. Tlie structure would appear to be an addi- 

 tional protection to the spinal cord from blows or falling objects. 



Char. Specif. General appearance that of a L3'codont, while 

 the dental and scutal characters ally it most to Oyrrhopus. 

 Head an elongate oval, very distinct from the narrow neck ; body 

 fnoderatel}' stout ; tail short, terminating in a corneous spine. 

 Rostal plate small, not prominent, intern asals small. Frontal 

 broad as long, straight in front with two subequal lateral facets 

 for the preocular and the short superciliary. Parietals elongate. 

 Nasal apparently single, large, descending nearly to the edge of 

 the lips. Dorsal small, not longer than high. Preocular large, 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



postoculavs two, small, ^ye small. Temporals 1-2 narrow. 

 Superior labials seven ; eye over the third and fourth, fiftli and 

 sixth the longest ; geneials rather short, subequal. Scales in seven- 

 teen longitudinal series, rather wide ; the first not materially 

 larger. Gastrosteges 137 ; anal 1 ; urosteges 32. Total length, 

 m. .305 (12.5 inches) ; of head .011 ; of tail .046. 



Color light brown, with black triangular spots on each side of 

 the middle line, the apices directed downward and extending lialf 

 way to the gastrosteges. The intervals between the apices are 

 about four scales in length, and are centrally darker tlian imme- 

 diately round the black spots. The spots are sometimes con- 

 nected b}' a black vitta on the median line, giving, when they 

 alternate, the appearance of zigzag band. Top of head dark 

 brown ; lower surfaces and lips pale and unspotted. 



The neural osseous plate is deeply longitudinally fissured, each 

 half having a tubercularly rugose superior face. The anterior 

 border is notched, while the posterior is a little produced on each 

 side of the groove. Length of plate, m. .0018 ; width of plate, 

 .0013. 



From Nauta on the Peruvian Amazon ; two specimens obtained 

 by Professor James Ortou during his last survey of that region. 




PrDc.A.IT.^S 1874. 



V \ 



7 



\ 1 



Plate 1 



2 ( 



3 /-' 



^ 



^wim, 



8 



;;?^-- 



D 



K^ 



10 



12 



"15 



13 





i 



-- .fe^' 



16 



17 



18 , 



^^ 



19 



GoTLrad on "new !Fosails of ths Pebas Group 





Platfe 11 





oi 



,) 



G 



I / 



W.&.B.Del. 





I TO ''.. ' 



mia.Wi. 



Plate III 





II 5b 



W.&,B.De1, 





Plate W 



w.es.Dei. 





e. 7 



' V 



v^ J 



A 



J 



J 



i 



W( 



TG.B.M: 



JBjBnfioras Saisliailic-Etar. 





Pr-e^fAc! 



mR.W4- 



Hate V*; 



W:G.B:(iel 



JZBviif oris Sons lift Bosk-c 





WGRrlel. 





..teSc,Ma.l874. 



PianeW 





ProcAc! 



'hikA374- 



PLste.IX. 





) ). 





'X. 



-i \ - 



-J, 



\ 



-J 



JEBafforas Son^Tlfh*. 





VocAc.Mal.S;-:l'hila.l8/-4 



Di ,H-uT 



/ 



^^^ 



P 



'9 



\"^' 



\ 



W.G.B.M 



I Sons liti^rstrr. 





Plate X[ 





W.G-BDel. 



'J Jl&SQrdsTicuB'Lim Bwstnr. 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. T3 



April 7. 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



The Blue Gravel of California. By E. Goldsmith Under 

 the name of " Blue Gravel" the California gold miners, and espe- 

 ciall}^ the placer miners, understand a rock which underlies the 

 goldbearing alluvium of that State and part of Nevada. Speci- 

 mens of this rock were shown to me by John C. Trautwine, C. E. 

 It is stated that, whenever the goldbearing sand in many localities 

 in the two above-named States has been removed by the well- 

 known washing process, the "blue gravel" appears. It also con- 

 tains gold, which cannot, however, be extracted by washing, the 

 stream of water being unable to disintegrate the rock, which is a 

 compact composite one, and not, as the name "gravel" would 

 imply, a loose material. 



This so-called "blue gravel" is composed of two ingredients 

 widely differing in age, namely, of pebbles cemented together by 

 a lava. The pebbles are of all sizes. In the specimens alluded 

 to, they are ver3' smooth and rounded, and present no sharp edges 

 or grooves. Their color is externally brownish, with a slight 

 yellow or olive green, but without the least trace of blue. When 

 a pebble is scraped or cut with a knife, the fresh exposed surface 

 is bluish-gra3% The hardness is 4. From the general appearance 

 I infer that some of these pebbles were derived from the sedi- 

 nffentary rock, slate, and others from Hornblende rock. 



Entirely different in general aspect from the rounded pebbles is 

 the other part of the rock, which I have already stated to be a 

 lava. This appears to envelop the pebbles completely. When 

 we detach a pebble from the enveloping mass, a perfect impression 

 of the same is observed, having a beautiful lustre as if it had 

 been freshl3^ oiled. This oily lustre, indeed, characterizes the en- 

 tire enveloping mass. Some of the dull pebbles are as it were 

 externally polished by a coating of the volcanic glass which has 

 run over them. The lustre of the freshly exposed surfaces is 

 brilliant, but it sometimes loses its brilliancy and becomes dull 

 with handling. The color is dirty olive-green. This lava is very 

 brittle, so much so that the preparation of a thin plate for micro- 

 scopical observation is impossible. The hardness is equal to 

 apatite. 



The most distinguishing crystallization within the lava mass 



is a black mica, which is probably biotite. I noticed also a few 



grains of quartz, as well as flattened grains of bright yellow gold. 



These are all observable by the naked eye, and, with the pocket 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lens, I could detect nothing more. When small fragments of 

 irregular form were placed under a more powerful magnifier, the 

 black mica appeared smoky by a transmitted light, or green when 

 in very thin platp.s, and most of the material seemed to be a green 

 amorphous glass, having no effect on polarized light. The specific 

 gravity I found to be 2.48. The silica I determined by an analy- 

 sis to be 65.48 per cent. We might presume that the amount of 

 silica should be greater than that obtained, but we must keep in 

 mind that the biotite present contains only about 40 per cent, of 

 it, and thus reduces the proportion ; however, the quantity indi- 

 cates that we must class this lava among the acidic ones. The 

 conclusion at which I arrive is that the so-called " blue gravel" 

 of California is a conglomerate of pebbles of various kinds ce- 

 mented together by an acidic lava in which crystals of mica (bio- 

 tite) and grains of gold are imbedded. 



How the gold came into the lava is a question of some difficulty. 

 Whether it was mingled with the pebbles before the lava ran over 

 the bed, or whether the gold was ejected from the volcano, I am 

 not able to decide. It would require observations on a variety of 

 specimens to arrive at some plausible theory. The specimens I 

 have seen had the gold suspended in the lava. The metal did not 

 touch the pebbles ; therefore, if the gold was present in the pebble 

 bed prior to the ejection of the lava, this latter must have raised 

 the metal from its bed, that is to say, a metal of s. g. 19.3 must 

 have been raised by a semifluid mass having s. g. = 2.48 ! 



Of course my observations are limited on these questions, but 

 since copper was ejected by the ancient volcano on Lake Superior, 

 may not gold have been similarly ejected in the case before us ? 



April 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



Prof. Leidy called attention to the " Bulletin of the United 

 States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories, 

 Ko. 2," presented this evening. It contains a "Review of the 

 Vertebrata of the Cretaceous Period found west of the Mississippi 

 River," by Prof. Cope. In this article he was quoted in such a 

 way as not fairly to express his original meaning. Thus, on page 

 7 of the Bulletin, reference is made to the Proceedings of this 

 Academy, 1856, p. 312, in which it is intimated that Thespesius 

 occidentalis was referred to the Mammalia, and regarded, per- 

 haps, as a Dinosaurian. In the Proceedings I have rather ex- 

 pressed the reverse, as I state of T. occidentalis, " among the 

 collection of vertebrate remains, are two apparent caudal vertebrae 

 and a first phalanx of some huge animal, which I suspect to be a 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. T5 



I 



Dinosaurian, though they may have belonged to a mammalian." 

 I ma}' add that, on p. 8, Prof, Cope, quoting from the same Pro- 

 ceedings, p. 89, indicated that I had referred Ischyrotherium to a 

 Sirenian. This is so, but Prof. Cope appears to have overlooked 

 the more full account of the animal in the Trans, of the Am, Phil. 

 Soc, 1859, p. 151, in which, though I still refer it with doubt to 

 the mammalia sirenia, I state that the remains may have belonged 

 to an aquatic reptile. 



In view of the reptilian character of Ischyrotherium, Prof. C. 

 has changed the name to Ischyrosaurus, but his reason for doing 

 so appears to me not to be valid, as classical authorities at times 

 have included reptiles in the word therion, and it has been con- 

 sidered admissible as applied to the extinct Cheirotherium. 



April 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



Note on the Enemies of Diffliigia. Prof. Leidy remarked that 

 in the relationship of Difflugia and Amcjeha we would suppose 

 that the former had been evolved from the latter, and that its stone 

 house would protect it from enemies to which the Amoeba would 

 be most exposed. The Difflugia had many enemies. I have 

 repeatedly observed an Amoeba with a swallowed Arcella, but 

 never with a Difflugia. Worms destroy many of the latter, and 

 I have frequentl}' observed them within the intestine of Nais, 

 Pristina, Chaetogaster, and ^olosoma. I was surprised to find 

 that Slentor polymorphus was also fond of Difflugia^ and I have 

 frequently observed this animalcule containing them. On one 

 occasion I accidentally fixed a Stentor by pressing down the cover 

 of an animalcule cage on a Difflugia.^ which it had swallowed. 

 The Stentor contracted, and suddenly elongated, and repeated 

 these movements until it had split three-fourths the length of its 

 body through, and had torn itself loose from the fastened Difflu- 

 gia. Nor did the Stentor suffer from this laceration of its body, 

 for in the course of several hours each half became separated as a 

 distinct individual. 



Bemarks on a supposed Compound derived from Leather. 

 Prof. Leidy directed attention to a dark-red, compact, sliining, 

 resinous-looking mass, several inches in thickness, which, he said, 

 was reputed to have been derived from leather in the great fire of 

 Chicago. It now exhibits no evidence of organized structure, 

 and its origin would not have been suspected from its appear- 

 ance. On burning it still gives out the peculiar odor of burning 

 leather. It was supposed to be a compound evolved from the 

 leather, under the influence of high heat with absence of air. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



April 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



On Echinorhynchus moniliformis. Dr. H. C. Chapman matle 

 the following remarks: I take the opportunity of exhibiting spe- 

 cimens of the rare and interesting worm the Echinorhynchus moni- 

 liformis from the alimentary canal of the Fox Squirrel (Sciurus 

 vulpinus) known to occur also in the Hamster and Field Mouse. 

 This species is so called from its resembling a row of pearls ; its 

 posterior portion is, however, smooth. The color of the worm is 

 white. The characteristic snout is armed with about a dozen 

 rows of recurved hooks, which enables the worm to hold on to the 

 animal which it infests. This proboscis is retractile, being moved 

 by delicate muscles. The male is much smaller than the female, 

 and can be readily distinguished by the sac at its posterior extre- 

 mity, which serves as a receptacle for the penis. In this species 

 the testicles occupy only a small portion of the posterior part of 

 tlie animal, while the ovaries, filled with eggs, extend through the 

 entire length of the body. The female in this species attains a 

 length of eleven inches, the male only that of from four to five. 

 The Echinorhynchus is a member of the Acanthocephali or " Spiney 

 Heads," a family of round worms. 



There not being a quorum present for the transaction of busi- 

 ness, the meeting adjourned until May 5, when the following were 

 elected members: 



Reuben Haines, G. Schwartz, Galloway C. Morris, John N. 

 Coles, M.D., U. S. Navy, Hugh Hamilton, M.D., and Charles P. 

 Perot. 



Don Antonio del Castillo, Don Mariano Barcena, and Don Jos^ 

 Joaquin Arriaga, of Mexico, were elected correspondents. 



May 5. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty members present. 



^ The following papers were presented for publication: 



"On the Habits of some American Species of Birds and other 

 things Ornithological." By Tlios. G. Gentry. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



" Description of two uew Fossil Shells from the Upper Amazon." 

 By T. A. Conrad. 



Anali/sis of Graphite from Wythe County, Virginia. By E. 

 Goldsmith, Of all the varieties of Graphite that have come 

 under my notice, I have never seen any resembling that which was 

 given to me recently by Mr. John C. Trautwine, C. E. It is com- 

 pact massive ; the touch is smooth. If cut with a knife or scratched 

 with the finger nail, it shows a bright dark metallic lustre. The 

 fracture is rough, uneven, dull. The color is dark blue, so that 

 the mineral greatl}^ resembles the massive earthy vivianite of New 

 Jersey. The powder has the same color. 



Talc makes an impression on it, hence its softness is less than 

 one. Lines drawn with it on paper are of a dark gray hue, similar 

 to common soft lead pencil marks. Specific gravity = 2.1068. 

 The blowpipe reactions, as well as my qualitative analysis, showed 

 that beside the carbon a large proportion of silica, alumina, and 

 iron oxides, also a trace of manganese, were present. The mineral 

 contains a considerable amount of gas, the quantity and reactions 

 of which I had not the means to ascertain. 



The quantitative determinations of the amount of moisture and 

 gases, the carbon, and ashes were found in the same manner as is 

 usually adopted in the analysis of anthracite. 



These were the results : 



Carbon 29.12. 



Ashes 60.61. 



Gases and moisture . . . 10.27. 



Showing that the mineral may be regarded as a very impure gra- 

 phite. 



May 12. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



Notice of some New Fresh-water Rhizopoda. Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that besides the ordinary species of Amoeba, which he had 

 observed in the vicinity of Philadelphia, he had discovered what 

 he suspected to be a new generic form. It has all the essential 

 characters of Amoeba, but in addition is provided with tufts of 

 tail-like appendages or rays, from which he proposed to name the 

 genus Ouramceba. 



The rays project from what maj' be regarded as the back part 

 of the body as the animal always moves or progresses in advance 

 of the position of those appendages. The rays are quite different 

 from pseudopods, or the delicate rays of the Actiuophryens. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The}^ are not used in securing food, nor is their function obvious. 

 The Ouramceba moves like an ordinary Amoeba, and obtains its 

 food in the same manner. The tail-like rays are not retractile, 

 and they are rigid and coarse compared with those of Actino- 

 phr3'ens. They are simple or unbranched, except at their origin, 

 and they are C3diiKlrical, of uniform breadth, and less uniform 

 length. When torn from the body they are observed to originate 

 from a common stock attached to a rounded eminence. 



Several forms of the Ouramceba were observed, but it is uncer- 

 tain whether they pertain to one or several species. One of the 

 forms had an oblong ovoid body about the |^th of a line long and 

 y^jth of a line broad. The tail-like rays formed half a dozen tufts, 

 measuring in length about the width of the body. The latter 

 was so gorged with large diatomes, such as Navicula viridis, 

 together with desmids and confervoe, that the existence of a 

 nucleus could not be ascertained. The species may be distin- 

 guished with the name of Ouramceba vorax. 



A second form, perhaps of a different species, moved actively 

 and extended its broad pseudopods like Amoeba, princeps. Wli^n 

 first viewed beneath the microscope it appeared irregularly globu- 

 lar and about the iV^'^ ^^ ^ ''" ^^^ diameter. It elongated to the 

 ^th of a line, and moved with its tail-like appendages in the rear. 

 These appendages formed five tufts about the ^V^^ ^^ ^ ^^" ^^ng. 

 The interior of the body exhibited a large contractile vesicle and 

 a discoid nucleus. This second form may be distinguished with 

 the name of Ouramceba lapsa. 



Another Ouramoeba had two comparatively short tufts of ra3'S, 

 and a fourth, of smaller size than the others, had a single tuft of 

 three moniliform rays. 



It is possible that Ouramoeba is the same as the Plagiophrys 

 of Claparede, though the description of this does not apply to 

 that. 



Plagiophrys is said to be an Actinophryen, furnished with a 

 bundle of rays emanating from a single point of the body, but 

 the rays are described as of the same kind and use as those of 

 Actinophrys. Plagiophrys is further stated to be provided with 

 a distinct tegument like Gorycia of Dujardin, or Pamphagus of 

 Baile}'^, but the body of Ouramceba is as free from any investment 

 as an ordinary Amceba, and the rays are fixed tail-like appen- 

 dages with no power of elongation or contraction. 



The species of Ouramoeba were found among desmids and dia- 

 tomes, on the surHice of the mud at the bottom of a pond, near 

 Darby Creek, on the Philadelphia and West Cliester Railroad. 



Two of the commonest species of Difflugia of our neighborhood 

 I had until recently confounded together as D. proleiformis, and, 

 perhaps, the two forms \x\a.y be included inider the latter name in 

 Europe. In one the mouth is deeply trilobed, and the animal is 

 usually green with chlorophyl globules. In the other the mouth 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



is crenulate, usually with six shallow crenulations, and the animal 

 is devoid of chlorophyl. The former is usually the smaller, and 

 may be distinguished with the name of D. lobostoma ; the latter 

 may be named D. crenulata. 



In an old brick pond, on the grounds of Swarthraore College, 

 Delaware County, among Difflugia pyriformis, D. spiralis, D. 

 corona, D. acuminata, and others not yet determined, there occurs 

 an abundance of a large species, apparently undescribed. It is 

 sometimes the fourth of a line in length, and is compi'essed pyri- 

 form, but is quite variable in its relation of length to breadth, and 

 in the shape of the fundus of the shell. This is often trilobate, 

 but from the non-production of one or more or all the lobes, differs 

 in appearance in different individuals. The animal is filled with 

 chlorophyl grains, from which it might be named D. entochloris. 



Another large Difflugia, allied to D. lageniformis, is not unfre- 

 quent about Philadelphia. The shell is beautifully vase-like in 

 shape. It has an oval or sub-spherical body with a constricted 

 neck, and a recurved lip to the mouth. The body of the shell 

 opposite the mouth is acute and often acuminate. The animal 

 contains no chlorophj'l. One shell measured g- of a line long by 

 I" of a line broad; another measured ;^ of a line long by ^ of a 

 line broad. The species may be named D. amphora. 



A DifHugian, found in a spring on Darby Creek, is interesting, 

 from its transparency, whicli allows the structure of the animal to 

 be seen in all its details. The investment is membranous and 

 apparently structureless. The soft granular contents occupy 

 about one-half of the investment, and are connected with this by 

 long threads. The pseudopods are protruded in finger-like pi'o- 

 cesses. The form of the animal is compressed ovoid, with the 

 narrow pole truncate and forming the transversely oval mouth. 

 It is probably the species Difflugia /^g'a^a, described by Mr. Tatem, 

 of England. Its length is about ^'^d of a line. The character of 

 the investment is so different from that of ordinary Difflugians 

 that the species may be regarded as pertaining to another genus, 

 for which the name of Catharia would be appropriate. 



Dr. Chapman made the following remarks on the generative 

 apparatus of the Tebennophorus Garolinensis : 



Various have been the interpretations offered from time to time 

 of the generative organs of the Gasteropoda. Thus Cuvier con- 

 sidered what is now regarded as an hermaphroditic organ to be 

 the ovary. Later observers regarded this hermaphroditic organ as 

 the testicle, and considered what is now supposed to be an albu- 

 minous gland the ovary, and which Cuvier regarded as part of 

 the testicle. With reference to these views, I have recently 

 dissected the Tebennophorus Carolinensis, a slug found often in 

 our environs under trees, etc., and found both ova and sperma- 

 tozoa in the organ regarded first as simply the ovary, later as the 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



testicle. I take the opportunit}'' of acknowledging the assistance 

 afforded me in m^"^ dissection by Dr. Leidy's beautiful monograph 

 on the Gasteropoda. 



May 19. 



Dr. Kenderdine in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



The Veins of Beech and Hornbean Leaves. Mr. Thomas Mee- 

 HAN said that De Candolle had noticed some years since a differ- 

 ence in the venation between the Fagus ferruginea and Fagus 

 sylvatico., the common American and European beeches. In the 

 American beech the lateral veins were said to terminate in the 

 apex of the serratures in the European they terminate at the base 

 of the sinus. He had not read the original paper of De Candolle, 

 but abstracts in the scientific serials. As the statement stood, it 

 conveyed the idea that there was a marked difference in structure 

 between these two allied species which did not, however, exist, as 

 groM'ing in this countr}'^ the leaves of the European beecli are al- 

 most entire ; the lateral veins, in approaching the margin of the 

 leaves, curve upwards, and connect with the lateral above tliem, 

 forming a sort of marginal vein near the outer edge of the leaf. 

 The veins of the American beech curve upward in the same way, 

 biTt are early arrested, and this sudden cessation of growth pro- 

 duces the serra, which are slightly curved upwards. An early ar- 

 restation of growth in the veins makes the serratures, and consti- 

 tutes the onl}^ difference between the two species. The structural 

 plan is the same in both the European, curving its lateral vein 

 into the apex, reached the upper one the American terminating 

 abruptly. 



There was a greater tendency to marginal development in some 

 European than in allied American species. In the Garpinus Be- 

 tulus, the English Hornbean, there were from four to five teeth 

 between each pair of lateral nerves, while there were but from two 

 to three between those of the American Garpinus Americana 

 a character that was quite as distinctive between these two very 

 closely allied species, as the viens were in the case of the beech. 



Direct Growth Force. Mr, Meehan referred to some potatoes 

 exhibited by him to the Academy a few years ago, in which the 

 stolons of a grass had penetrated througli from one side to the 

 other, preferring, as it would seem, to go through such an ob- 

 struction to turning aside to avoid it. A potato was a rather 

 rough surfaced body. He now exhibited a similar case, only the 

 obstruction was the round smooth root of an herbaceous peony. 

 Though not more than one-third of an inch thick and round, a 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



stolon of TrUicum repens, the common couch grass, had pushed 

 itself through. 



May 26. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



Thos. Hockley, Wm. A. Stokes, John Shallcross, Alfred G. 

 Reed, M.D., Richard J. Dunglison, M.D., Louis A. Godey, and J. 

 E. Kingsley were elected members. 



On report of the Committee to which it had been referred, the 

 following paper was ordered to be published. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DESCRIPTION OF TWO NEW FOSSIL SHELLS OF THE UPPER AMAZON. 



BY T. A. CONRAD. 



The Pebas group of the Upper Amazon was first discovered by 

 Prof. James Orton in 1867, who obtained a collection of the re- 

 markable shells, some of which were first described by Mr. Gabb. 

 Subsequently, at request of Prof. Orton, Mr. Hauxwell collected 

 other specimens, and Prof. Steere obtained some new species, 

 besides a very large number of several species of Pachydon. 

 Prof Orton, having revisited the region in which the Pebas group 

 occurs, has found two new forms which he has forwarded to me to 

 describe. These new shells belong to fresh-water genera, and help 

 to define the nature of the habitat of the gi'oup. They confirm 

 the opinion I advanced in the preceding paper, that it was a basin 

 of fresh water to which brackish water had access at times. The 

 Hemisinus herein described occurs crowded in the clay in such 

 perfection that the species must have lived and died on the spot, 

 and as the living shells of the genus inhabit fresh-water rivers of 

 South America, very far from salt water, they are as much fresh- 

 water shells as are those of Melania. Some of the shells are 

 water-worn, and there is abundance of small fragments of shells 

 in the claj^, in which respect it resembles some of the Miocene beds 

 of Virginia. The Pebas clay in all the localities is crowded with 

 specimens of Issea Orfoni, I. lintea, Liris laqiieata, all of which 

 I believe to be fresh-water shells of the family Melaniidse. 



The two shells described in this paper were found at Iquitos, 

 about 100 miles west of Pebas. 



Family UNIONID^. 



HAPLOTH^RUS, Conrad. 



Eqnivalve, hinge margin straight, the cartilage area very broad and thick, 

 hinge edentulous, anterior muscular scar small, narrow, and deeply 

 impressed, accessory situated under the primary scar. 



This is a large, very thick shell, laminated and pearly like Unio, 

 and is remarkable for the thick, broad hinge area. It comes in 

 fragments, so that the entire outline is unknown. The anterior 

 accessory scar is differently situated from that in Anodonta, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



which is on the posteriox* side of the primary impression. The 

 latter is very much smaller than in an Anodonta of the same size. 



H. capax. PL 12, figs. 1, 2, 3. * 



Ovate,? thick and ponderous, inflated; umbo prominent, 

 rounded ; beaks distant from anterior extremity ; valves some- 

 what contracted near the middle towards the base. 



Prof. Orton remarks that he saw many fragments of this shell, 

 and, therefore, it probably lived in company with Pachydon, but 

 the lamina of the shell separate so readily that fragments only are 

 obtainable. The shape of the shell is evidently somewhat like 



that of a TRIQUETRA. 



HEMISINUS, SwaiDson. 

 H. tuberculiferus. PI. 12, fig. 4. 



Turreted, elongated, volutions 9, laterally straight ; 3 prominent revolv- 

 ing tnberculated ribs on each volution of the spire, except two or three 

 nearest the apex ; last volution with 9 or 10 revolving lines, unequal in 

 size ; a fine carinated line borders the upper margin of the suture, 

 which is indistinctly defined ; aperture short. 



A beautiful species, very distinct from any living shell of the 

 genus. It occurs often very perfect, with the exception of the 

 labrum, which is broken, in every specimen I have seen, from the 

 chalky nature of the shell, not generally from attrition. 



PACHYDON, Gabb. 

 P. tenuis. PI. 12, fig. 5. 



Outlines representing extremes of variation. 

 P. . PI. 12, fig. 6. 



As there is only one specimen of this form, I am uncertain 

 whether it is a distinct species or a variety of P. tenuis. 



In my last paper, for Mylitoides read Mytilopsia. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



June 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



The thanks of the Academy were tendered to Mr. Alfred B. 

 Durand for a life-sized portrait of his father, the late Elias Durand, 

 presented this evening. 



Habits of the Orchard Oriole. Mr. Thomas Meehan stated 

 that he was not familiar with the latest knowledge in ornitholog}', 

 that not being a special study with him; but if Wilson^s Orni- 

 thology contained all that was known of the habits of the orchard 

 oriole Oriolus mutalus he might say that the bird did not con- 

 fine itself solely to insect food. He liad on his grounds a large 

 specimen of the Staphylea trifolia, which, when in bloom, was a 

 favorite resort with humblebees and humming-birds, and the oriole 

 took its share of honey from the flowers as well. It did not rest 

 on the wing as the humming-liird did, but sought a lower branch 

 from which it could leisurely extract the sweets from the flowers 

 above. He had thought it possible that the bird was in search of 

 insects among the flowers, but a careful examination proved 

 otherwise. 



Poisonous character of the Floioers of Wistaria Sinensis. 

 Mr. Meehan remarked that there was a popular belief that the 

 flowers of the Wistaria sinensis were destructive to bees. He 

 had himself seen hundreds of dead bees under large flowering 

 plants. He was struck with the fact this season, that none were 

 dead under similar circumstances. The flowers were continually 

 visited b}' the honey bee, and others, without, so far as he could 

 see, any fatal results following. It was clear, therefore, that, what- 

 ever might be the cause of the death of these insects under some 

 circumstances, it could not be from the honey alone. 



GroiL'th of the Cuicus arvensis, Hofl". In regard to the I'apidity 

 with which plants sometimes grew, Mr. Thomas Meehan pbserA-ed 

 that, though it was well known that the Canada thistle spread sur- 

 prising]}', there had been no figures, giving its exact growth, 

 placed on record. In the first week in May, IStS, he sowed a 

 few seeds. By the first week in June the little plants were well 

 above the ground, and about to push out their stolons. They 

 continued to radiate from this centre in every direction till the 

 first week in September, when they had reached a distance of six 

 feet, covering a circle of twelve feet in diameter, the space being 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



profusely filled with plants thrown up from the creeping stolons. 

 This gave an average of about three-fourths of an inch of growth 

 per day ; equal to maize or other rapid-growing vegetation above 

 ground. 



June 9. 

 * Prof. Jos. Leidy in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., made the following remarks : 

 During a recent trip to Missouri I had an opportunity of visit- 

 ing and personally examining the Pilot Knob, and Iron Mountain, 

 and Mine La Motte districts, in company with two of the assist- 

 ant geologists Prof. Potter and Mr. Gage. There is much in 

 this district, and in fact in most parts of Missouri, to interest 

 the student of geology from east of the Alleghanies: for example, 

 the variations in the character of the porphyry, which is the 

 archpean according to Prof. Pumpellj^ or the azoic member of the 

 Missouri series. This porphyry carries several deposits of ore, 

 both veins and beds, as has been ably pointed out in the recent 

 geological survc}^ of the State by Prof. Pumpelly. Tliis, and the 

 magnesian limestones which overlie it, form the principal part of 

 the surface in the southeastern part of the State. 



Mine La Motte is situated in St. Francois County, about ninety 

 miles nearl}'^ due south of St. Louis. There are extensive works 

 put up on this property, and the whole was sold to an English 

 company two j^ears ago for $.3,000,000, but the sale could not be 

 ratified owing to a law of Missouri which prohibits foreigners 

 from holding property in tiiat State. At least such was the in- 

 formation given to me. The deposits of lead and copper and 

 nickel ores at Mine La Motte, part of a great belt about one hun- 

 dred miles wide which crosses the State from southeast to north- 

 west, lie in the limestone. At Mine La Motte there is a pro- 

 fuse occurrence of nickel-bearing minerals, and especially of 

 millerite, which is found in stellate, acicular, and radial crystals 

 on the sui'face of many of the lumps of ore. 



The works here, before they were burned down, treated the 

 ores in open American hearths, and brouglit out matt wliich was 

 shipped to Swansea. It is said, on competent authority, that a 

 galena exhibiting a peculiar blue color (like that found on the 

 surface of much peacock ore), contains cobalt. The cause of this 

 color, and also its connection with the contained metal, are not 

 perfectly understood. Abnost all of the galena of the district is 

 colored in this way. 



I present also specimens of iron ore from Iron IMountain, 

 Missouri, where it occurs in irregular veins, intersecting the por- 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



phyry mountam in all directions. This mountain covers at its 

 base about seventy acres, more or less, and is furrowed by deep cuts 

 near its summit ; some of tliese to a depth of eighty to one hun- 

 dred feet. The best and purest ore is that which was found lying 

 on the surface of its slopes, and of this there is still a very large 

 quantity; but the large boulders have been almost all removed, 

 while that which remains is so finely divided and so mixed with 

 the clay and soil that any ordinary method of separation would 

 make it too expensive. 



Lately, the California hydraulic mining has been applied to 

 win this ore, with great success. Water is pumped through large 

 hoses which are led up the sides of the hills, and the debris is 

 washed down through sluice-boxes and over small falls, which 

 agitate it sufficient!}' to shake the ore from the dirt and allow it 

 to deposit at the foot of the hill by virtue of its higher specific 

 gravity, in receptacles provided for it. The remaining ore is ob- 

 tained by blasting, is loaded on a gravit}' railway and carried to 

 the foot of the mountain, where it is dumped, three or four tons 

 at a time, over a shoot which precipitates it some eight or ten 

 feet, upon the flats of the Iron Mountain Railroad Company, which 

 are awaiting it. The shock as this heavy weight strikes the cars 

 is great enough to cause them sometimes to tilt over on two 

 wheels. How much it increases the wear and tear I was unable 

 to ascertain. 



This ore contains from 65 to 68 per cent, metallic iron, asso- 

 ciated with 0.031 per cent, to 0.11 per cent, phosphorus and 4 to 

 4.5 per cent, silica, and a trace of sulphur. The quantity exposed 

 is enormous, but was stated by Mr. David Thomas, of Catasauqua, 

 not to equal in quantity the celebrated Cornwall mines of this 

 State. 



The ore from Pilot Knob is much more sandy than that from 

 Iron Mountain. It occurs in a bed dipping with the general dip 

 of the country rock, and inclosed within the porphyry out of 

 which the knob is formed. The formation of this ore is a most in- 

 teresting study, and the only plausible theory seems to be that of 

 lateral replacement, a case of metasomatism wiiere the porpliyry, 

 having become slaty in structure, and less capable of resisting 

 the solvent, has been replaced along the line of strike, and only 

 in such laminated parts. Tiiis ore is banded in appearance, and 

 is almost, if not quite, invariably hematite. 



June 16. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the cliair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



Notice of some Fresh-wafer and Terrestrial Ehizopods. Prof. 

 Leidy stated that among the amoeboid forms noticed by him in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 8t 



the vicinity of our city, tliere was one especially remarkable for 

 the comparatively enormous quantity of quartzose sand wliich it 

 swallowed with its food. The animal might be viewed as a bag 

 of sand ! It is a sluggish creature, and when at rest appears as 

 an opaque white, spherical ball, ranging from |^ to | of a line in 

 diameter. The animal moves slowly, first assuming an oval and 

 then a clavate form. In the oval form one measured f of a line 

 long by I of a line broad, and when it became clavate it was f of 

 a line long b}' |^ of a line broad at the. advanced thick end. An- 

 other, in the clavate form, measured | of a line long by ^ of a 

 line wide at the thick end. The creature rolls or extends in ad- 

 vance while it contracts behind. Unless under pressure it puts 

 forth no pseudopods, and the granular entosarc usuallj^ follows 

 closely on the limits of the extending ectosarc. Generally the 

 animal drags after it a quantity of adherent dirt attached to a 

 papillated or villous discoid projection of the body. 



The contents of the animal besides the granular matter and 

 many globules of the entosarc, consists of diatomes, desmids, 

 and confervas, together with a larger proportion of angular particles 

 of transparent and mostly colorless quartz. Treated with strong 

 mineral acids so as to destroy all the soft parts, the animal leaves 

 behind more than half its bulk of quartzose sand. 



The species may be named Amceba sabulosa, and is probably 

 a member of the genus Felomyxa, of Dr. Greef (Archiv f. Mik. 

 Anat.,:s., 1873, 51). 



The animal was first found on the muddy bottom of a pond, on 

 Dr. George Smith's place, in Upper Darby, Delaware County, but 

 has been found also in ponds in New Jersey. 



When the animal was first noticed with its multitude of sand 

 particles, it suggested the probability that it might pertain to a 

 stage of life of Difflugia^ and that by the fixation of the quartz 

 particles in the exterior, the case of the latter would be formed. 

 This is conjectural and not confirmed b}-^ any observation. 



A minute amoeboid animal found, on Sjnrogyra, in a ditch at 

 Cooper's Point, opposite Philadelphia, is of interesting character. 

 The body is hemispherical, yellowish, and consists of a granular 

 entosarc with a number of scattered and well-defined globules, 

 besides a large contractile vesicle. From the body there extends 

 a broad zone, which is colorless and so exceedingly delicate that 

 it requires a power of 600 diameters to see it favorabl3% B}'' this 

 zone the animal glides over the surface. As delicate as it is, it 

 evidently possesses a regular structure, though it was not re- 

 solved under the best powers of the microscope. The structure 

 probably consists of globular granules of uniform size alternating 

 with one another, so that the disk at times appears crossed by 

 delicate lines, and at others as if finely and regularly punctated. 

 The body of the animal measures from ^\ to g^^ of a line in dia- 

 meter, and the zone is from ^ J^ to 5^^ of a line wide. The species 

 may be named Amoeba zonalis. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The interesting reseai'ches of Prof. Richard Greef, of Marburg, 

 published iu the second volume of Schultze's Archiv f. Mikros- 

 kopische Anatomie^ on Araoebse living in the earth (Ueber einige 

 in der Erde lebende Amoehen, etc.), led me to look in similar 

 positions for Rhizopods. 



In the earth about the roots of mosses growing in the crevices 

 of the bricks of our city pavements, in damp places, besides find- 

 ing several species of Amoeba, together with abundance of the 

 common wheel-animalcule, Rotifer vulgaris, I had the good fortune 

 to discover a species of Oromia. I say good fortune, for it is 

 with the utmost pleasure I have watched this curious creature for 

 hours together. The genus was discovered and well described 

 by Dujardin, from two species, one of which, G. oviformis, was 

 found in the seas of France ; the other, the G. Jiuviatilis, in the 

 River Seine. 



Imagine an animal, like one of our autumnal spiders stationed 

 at the centre of its well-spread net ; imagine every thread of this 

 net to be a living extension of the animal, elongating, branching, 

 and becoming confluent so as to form a most intricate net; and 

 imagine every thread to exhibit actively moving currents of a 

 viscid liquid both outward and inward, carrying along particles 

 of food and dirt, and you have some idea of the general character 

 of a Gromia. 



The Gromia of our pavements is a spherical cream-colored 

 body, about the -i-^th of a line in diameter. When detached from 

 its position and placed iu water, in a few minutes it projects in 

 all directions a most wonderful and intricate net. Along the 

 threads of this net float minute naviculae from the neighborhood, 

 like boats in the current of a stream, until reaching the central 

 mass they are there swallowed. Particles of dirt are also col- 

 lected from all directions and are accumulated around the animal, 

 and when the accumulation is sufficient to protect it, the web is 

 withdrawn and nothing apparently will again induce th animal 

 to produce it. 



From these observations we may suppose that the Gromia 

 TERRicoLA, as I propose to name the species, during dry weather 

 remains quiescent and concealed among accumulated dirt in the 

 crevices of our pavements, but that in rains or wet weather the 

 little creature puts forth its living net which becomes so many 

 avenues along which food is conveyed to the body. As the 

 neighborhood becomes dr}', the net is withdrawn to await another 

 rain. The animal with its extended net can cover an area of 

 nearly half a line in diameter. The threads of the net are less 

 than the ^otoo^^ ^ ^^^ inch in diameter. 



Bemarks on the Revimjication of Rotifer vulgaris Prof. 

 Leidy remarked that during the search for Rhizopods, having 

 noticed among the dirt adhering to the mosses in the crevices of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 89 



our pavements many individuals of the common wheel-animalcule, 

 liotifer vulgaris^ he had made some observations relating to the 

 assertion that the}' might be revivified on moistening them after 

 they had been dried up. 



Two glass slides, containing, beneath cover glasses, some dirt, 

 exhibited each about a dozen active living Rotifers. The glass 

 slides were placed, on a window ledge of my study, the thermo- 

 meter standing at 80. In the course of lialf an hour the water 

 on the slides was dried up and the dirt collected in ridges. The 

 next morning, about twelve hours after drying the slides, they 

 were placed beneath the microscope. Water was applied and the 

 materials on the slides closely examined. On each slide a number 

 of apparently dried Rotifers were observed. Tliese imbibed 

 water and expanded, and some of them in the course of half an 

 hour revived and exhibited their usual movements, but others 

 remained motionless to the last. 



The same slides were again submitted to drying, and from one 

 of them the cover glass was removed. They were examined the 

 next day, but several hours after moistening them only two 

 Rotifers were noticed moving on each slide. 



I next prepared a slide on which there were upwards of twent}' 

 actively moving Rotifers, and exposed it to the hot sun during 

 the afternoon. On examination of the slide the following morn- 

 ing, after moistening the material, all the Rotifers continued mo- 

 tionless, and remained so to the last moment. 



From these observations it would appear that the Rotifers and 

 their associates became inactive in comparatively dry positions 

 and may be revived on supplying them with more moisture, but 

 w^hen the animals are actually dried they are incapable of being 

 revivified. Moisture adheres tenaciously to earth, and Rotifers 

 may rest in the earth, like the Lepidosiren, until returning waters 

 restore them to activit3^ 



Prof. Cope mentioned the capture of a young Balsena cisarctica^ 

 of fort3'-eight feet in length, in the Raritan River, near South 

 Amboy, on May 30th. The skeleton was buried and would be 

 preserved in some museum. He examined the whalebone, of 

 which there are 245 laminae on each side of the mouth. The color 

 is black and the hair is fine, long, and has a brownish tinge ; length 

 of longest plate with hair, 48 inches. The gum is 11 G inches long 

 and 11 inches deep. He was informed that the whale was entirely 

 black, and the dorsal line without irregularities. 



Prof. Cope exhibited mounted crania of some gigantic horned 

 mammalia of the Miocene of Colorado, viz., the Symhorodon 

 bucco, S. aUirostris, S. acer, and S. tHgonoceros. He explained 

 the distinctive features of this genus as compared with Titaiio- 

 therium, exhibiting typical specimens of the latter from the Aca- 

 demy's museum, showing four inferior incisor teeth, while the 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lower jaw of Symborodon does not possess any. He pointed 

 out that these animals had small brains, with few convolutions, 

 wliicli were separated by deep fissures occupied by thin bony 

 laraince, and that the falx and tentorium are well developed. He 

 pointed out the relatively small size of the brain, and that at 

 least half of the length of the cranium is occupied by enormous, 

 undivided frontal sinuses. Each of these communicates with the 

 nasal meatus by an elongate foramen, and enters the base of the 

 corresponding horn core. He stated that similar sinuses exist in 

 the cranium of Eobasileuft^ and enter the basis of the middle pair 

 of horns in the same manner. 



June 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



On the Pelvis of Hadrosaurus. Prof. B. Waterhouse Haw- 

 kins, having completed his model of Hadrosaurus at Princeton 

 College, took the occasion to call the attention of the Academy to 

 his success in placing certain fugitive bones belonging to Hadro- 

 saurus, and also to its English cousin Iguanodon. It might lie 

 allowable to remind the meeting of the fact that in 1868, when he 

 had made and presented the restoration of Hadrosaurus now in 

 the museum, he then recognized the homologous character of 

 a bone described by Dr. Leidy in his monograph of the Cretaceous 

 Reptiles, to that which had become a fugitive bone in Iguanodon, 

 the English representative of Hadrosaurus. These bones had 

 been for many years appointed to the place of clavicles by Prof. 

 Owen and Dr. Mantel, of England. When Mr. Hawkins made his 

 large restoration of Iguanodon at the Crj'stal Palace, in 1853, 

 his first difficulty was to find room for these so-called clavicles in 

 his model, a task which he was obliged to abandon, as they were 

 twice the size which the natural arrangement of the limbs rendered 

 possible. A few days previous to his sailing for America he found 

 that Prof Huxle}^ had been studying the same problem of their 

 true position in the animal's body, concerning which he delivered 

 an address before the Royal Institution. Prof Huxley, on this 

 occasion, transposed the pseudo-clavicles from the pectoral to 

 the pelvic arch, where he arranged them either as pubic or ischiatic 

 bones, and placed them as in the ostrich and rhea. At the same 

 time this transposition was taken advantage of to suggest the 

 probability of Iguanodon walking on its hind legs, thus account- 

 ing for some of the larger forms of bipedal footprints, and justify- 

 ing the establishment of the new order Ornithosauria. On the 

 arrival of Prof. Hawkins in America, after studying Dr. Leidj^'s 

 description of Hadrosaurus, he found that Dr. L. had anticipated 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



Prof. Huxley's transposition of the pseudo-clavicles, which he 

 suggested in the above-named description might more probably 

 represent the ischiatic bones of Iladrosaurus. While engaged in 

 the Central Park, in developing the external form of tiiis former 

 inhabitant of New Jersey, Mr. Hawkins found it necessary to 

 renew the whole question as to the component parts of the pelvic 

 arch of these giants, wliich he practically tested with casts from 

 the actual fossils, endeavoring to ascertain their true position 

 according to both Dr. Leidy's and Prof Huxley's views. In this 

 attempt he utterlj^ failed, finding it impossible to place these 

 fugitive bones in such relationship to the gigantic femur as would 

 enable either animal to make footprints similar to those found 

 both in England and America. This being the case at the moment 

 when the iconoclastic Central Park Commission declined allow- 

 ing the further prosecution of paleozoic studies in the Park, the 

 inquiry was not continued until the opportunity was afforded by 

 the trustees of the New Jersey College at Princeton, who desired 

 to possess for their new museum one of Mr. Hawkins's restorations 

 of an extinct animal of New Jersey. For this purpose they 

 selected Hadrosaurus, which enabled Mr. H. to again investigate 

 the true position of the bones in question, which he has finall}^ 

 placed as the analogues of the abdominal plastron-like supports, 

 found largely developed in the pelvic region of the alligator. 

 This position of the bones, when united with the bipedal carriage 

 of the body, suggested immediately an analogy between these 

 fugitive bones and marsupial bones of the Didelphidse. These 

 remarks were illustrated by Mr. Hawkins in his usual manner 

 by crayon drawings on the slate. 



Prof. Cope stated that he was still of the opinion that the evi- 

 dence derived from Lselops and Megadactylus rendered it neces- 

 sary to believe in the backward direction of these bones in Hadro- 

 saurus. 



Prof. Cope described a species of Dipnoan fish of the genus 

 Ctenodus from the coal measures of Ohio, based on specimens 

 placed in his hands by Prof. Newberry, as follows : 



The top of the head is covered with angular plates or scuta, 

 arranged in the following manner on the region presented. Two 

 s^'mmetrical scuta occupy the median line, one in front of the 

 other. One of these is a longish coffin-shaped hexagonal, with 

 the suture with the other concave. The latter is more ovoid, 

 broad and convex next the first mentioned, and somewhat more 

 contracted at the opposite extremity. Beyond this are two shields 

 joining by a straight suture on the middle line ; besides this one, 

 they have two concave sutures for scuta, at the farther end two 

 concave lateral sutures, and a straight one to the adjoining me- 

 dian scutum, whose suture is also concave. On each side of this 

 median plate is a large area surrounded before outwards, and 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



behind, by smaller scuta, three in front, two at the side, and two 

 behind. Commencing with tiie first. No. 1 has already been de- 

 scribed. No. 2 is small, oval, and antero-posterior ; No. '> is an 

 antero-posterior pentagon, with the narrowest side inwards. No. 

 4 is a similar transverse pentjtgon. No. 5 is an antero-posterior 

 pentagon, which presents its shorter lateral facet inwards. No. 6 

 has a similar character, but is smaller and with more definite an- 

 gles. Another series of scuta is seen outside of these at one end 

 of the series. Three of this set bound the front and side of each 

 of the median pair above mentioned, leaving a short facet next 

 its fellow unaccounted foi*. The sculpture consists of radiating 

 ridges and' tubercles, which are most broken near the centres of 

 the scuta. The tubercles and ridges are obtuse and low, and the 

 latter do not inosculate. An angular depression commenced at 

 the middle of each lateral area, and extends across the middle line 

 at the point of junction of the paired and single median scuta. 



M. 

 Width of vertex at middle scuta . . . .0.176 

 Length of single median scute .... .048 



June 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



Permission having been granted (the meeting being for busi- 

 ness), Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., made the following remarks : 



In the investigation of the chemical formulas of minerals, the 

 student will meet with two kinds of difficulties. The first is the 

 great variations in the analysis, and the next is the connecting to- 

 gether in the formula for the particular mineral of different com- 

 pounds by the sign -|-. The first of these difficulties is a neces- 

 sary consequence of the manner of formation and occurrence of 

 minerals in tthe midst of solutions of other materials, and conse- 

 quently subjected to mechanical and chemical conditions tending 

 to add impurities to it, (whether by percolations tlirough its open 

 joints, crevices, and pores, or by oxidizing or partially decompos- 

 ing it). 



The first results of the best processes of mechanical separation 

 merely reduce to. a low per cent, the admixture of one mineral 

 with another of greatly difterent sp. gr., and even the best known 

 chemical methods can never succeed in producing an absolutely 

 and theoretically pure substance. So much less probable is it that 

 the deposits of compounds by the mechanical and chemical pro- 

 cesses which a change of the conditions of the surrounding nature 

 have caused, and which have not been bottled up in impervious 

 glass jars, but left to the action of the rain and sun and subter- 



J 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



ranean solutions, should even acquire more than a relative purit}'. 

 So that when we glance over the anal^^sis of the same mineral 

 made by different cliemists, it is often hard to say which elements 

 are those characteristic of the species. (See Glaucon-ite, Conarite, 

 Beudantite, etc. etc.) 



In some cases, the admixture of the two minerals can be proved 

 to be mechanical (gold dust in magnetic sand) ; in others it is 

 merely strongly suspected, but the mineral cannot be separated 

 by mechanical means (gold in pi/rites, etc.), while in the great 

 majority of cases the formula maker contents himself with two 

 arrangements of the atoms present connected by the sign +5 ^iit^ 

 each representing a different mineral. 



It is this that forms one of the greatest difficulties to the stu- 

 dent, at the present state of science, in forming any probable 

 conception of the mutual chemical relations of the various ele- 

 ments represented. Such an hypothesis is certainly tenable in 

 two cases: 1st. When the resulting mass cannot be classed under 

 any of the crj'stal systems (limonite, etc.) and the mineral is set 

 down as amorphous or crystalline; and 2d. Where the percentage 

 of one or two of tlie supposed compounds is so small that the 

 morphological properties of that which greatly preponderates are 

 assumed by the whole mass. ( Quartz containing scales of specular 

 iron or needles of rutilite.) But when a mineral cr3^stallizes dis- 

 tinctly in one crystal sj^stem and is deliberately assumed to be 

 made up of two others, each crystallizing in a different one, the 

 case is exceedingly perplexing to the mind. Yet the greater 

 number of all the formulas determined by chemists exhibit this 

 anomaly. 



It was not surprising that this should be the case at a time 

 when the electro-polar theory of Berzelius was unquestioned, and 

 the bases and acids were placed opposite each other frequently 

 separated by the -f sign like the partners in a Virginia Reel, 

 and it was thought necessary to make them analogous b3' dividing 

 the oxygen between them. CaO, SO3 (anhydrite) or CaO -\- SO.j 

 which has a crystal form differing from that of S0 and CaO seems 

 to justify (Ag.,S),, + Sb.^S., (proustite), for in this latter case the 

 mineral is rhorabohedral (hexagonal) while one of its constituents 

 crystallizes isometric and the other rhombic. It is true that this 

 mineral belongs to the class of those of metallic habit, and is 

 therefore opaque, and thus its optical properties cannot be deter- 

 mined, but if it were transparent we should be under the necessity 

 of recognizing the power of a mineral which can only pi'oduce 

 the ordinarily refracted my + one that can produce two extraor- 

 dinary rays to form a mineral which can give rise to one extraor- 

 dinary ray, and so of pleochroism, etc. In this case the fancy is 

 pleased by the accidental coincidence of the crystal form of the 



0-4-2 

 resultant with the average of the other two ^!1-^ = 1 ; but we 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



know there is no basis for such a, thought, and besides in other cases 

 the union of two simply crj'stallizing minerals produces one of 

 more complex morphology. 



Thus our authorities tell us that sternbergite which crystallizes 

 orthorombic is to be written chemically Ag,,S -j- (FeS)^ -{- FeS.,, 

 or in other words, is composed of three minerals, two ol^ which 

 (Ag.,S and FeS.,) crj'stallize in the isometric system, and the third 

 has no place in nature and no name. 



I propose at a future meeting of the Academy to call the atten- 

 tion of the mineralogists to several formulas which, though new, 

 seem to fulfil all the conditions of agreement with analysis and 

 the ncTvest developments of theoretical chemistry. 



The following anatomical notes by Dr. Chapman were read : 

 Disposition of the Latissimus Dorsi, etc., in Ate.les Geoff royi 

 {Kiihl) and Macacus Bhesus {Desviarest). Frequently the atten- 

 tion of anatomists is called to the abnormal arrangement of parts, 

 such as variations in the disposition of muscles, arteries, etc., and 

 by comparison with other animals what is abnormal, variable, in a 

 higher animal is usually'' found to be normal, constant, in a lower 

 one. Supposing the theory of the evolution of life to be true, 

 that the higher animals are the modified descendants of the lower, 

 we have some explanation for the occurrence of such abnormalties, 

 these variations being reversions to ancestral types. An interest- 

 ing illustration of this view is seen in the occasional occurrence in 

 man of a muscular slip, running from the latissimus dorsi to the 

 internal condyle of the humerus. This muscle, which is of very 

 rare occurrence in the human subject, is constant in monkeys, 

 among others in the spider monkej' or Ateles, as sliow^n in Plate 

 13, Fig. 1 (6). Another variation met with so frequently in the 

 human subject that surgeons have their attention called to it with 

 reference to the ligation of the main arteries, is the presence of a 

 muscular slip, passing from the latissimus dorsi across the axil- 

 lary arterj' and nerves to the pectoralis major. This muscle, Plate 

 13, Fig. 2 (c), is constant in the Macacus, which also exhibits the 

 muscular slip (6), just referred to in Ateles. On the supposition 

 that man and the monkeys are the descendants of a common 

 stock, we may expect to find such variations recurring like other 

 family traits. 



Flexor Brevis Digitorum in Ateles Geoff royi {Rube). I take the 

 opportunity of calling attention to the arrangement of the flexor 

 brevis digitorum in a sjjider monke}^, the Ateles Geolfroyi. By 

 looking at Plate 14, we see that tendons 1 and 2 are the continua- 

 tion of the muscular bell}' rising from the calcaneum, that tendon 

 3 results from the union of two muscular slips, one from (o), the 

 other from the tendinous portion of the flexor longus digitorum, 

 while tendon 4 comes only from tendon of flexor lona-us digitorum. 

 This arrangement of the tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum is 

 somewhat difierent from that observed in other New World mon- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



keys (Platyrrhini and Arctoppithecini) or those of the Old World 

 (Catarrhini). 



Rete Alirahile in Bradypus Didacfylus. Of the man}'' peculi- 

 arities in the organizations of the sloths, one of the most interest- 

 ing is the breaking up of the arteries into rete mirabile. This is 

 well seen in the upper extremity of a two-toed sloth {Bradypus 

 Didacfylus) which recently died at the Zoological Garden, Phila- 

 delphia. While the axillary arterj^ is seen to continue its course 

 as the brachial, diminished, however, in its calibre, it gives off 

 numerous branches which divide and subdivide. The main artery 

 with the surrounding plexus and the median nerve passes through 

 the internal condyle of the humerus, Plate 13, Fig. 3. In this 

 latter respect it differs from the three-toed sloth, as may be seen 

 by comparison with the beautiful plates of Prof. Hyrtl. This in- 

 teresting disposition of the bloodvessels is also seen in the femoral 

 arteries of these animals. Yarious explanations have been offered 

 for the rete mirabile of arteries. Thus in the Cetacea the dividins: 

 and subdividing of the arteries appear to serve as reservoirs of 

 arterialized blood, enabling such animals as the porpoise, etc., to 

 remain for a long time under water. In the sloths and slow lemurs 

 this disposition of the bloodvessels seems to be in relation with 

 the slowness of the circulation, fluids travelling less rapidly 

 through a number of small vessels than one large one. 



On report of the Committee to which it was referred, the fol- 

 lowing paper was ordered to be published : 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON HABITS OF SOME AMERICAN SPECIES OF BIEDS. 

 BY THOS. G. GENTRY. 



The ])ocly of facts contained herein is the result of observations 

 carried through a period of four consecutive seasons, and is con- 

 fined to species which, though of extended range, breed within the 

 State of Pennsjdvania. This paper is designed to cover the ground 

 from the Family Icteridae to the end of the Family Picariffi, ex- 

 clusive of western species and a few whose habits have been de- 

 scribed by the writer in the forthcoming work of Dr. Coues. 



Family ICTERID^. 



Subfamily AGELiEiNJE. 

 Molothruis pecoris, Swainson. 



This well-known species, though an early visitor in Massachu- 

 setts, which, according to the authorit}' of Samuels, makes its ap- 

 pearance there as early as the middle of March, from some cause 

 or other has never been observed by the writer earlier than the 

 second week of April, long after the blue-birds, robins, and black- 

 birds have made the fields and woods resound with their music. 

 Its arrival is announced by the coming of the warblers and spar- 

 rows, betw^een w^hom and it exists such mysterious relations. 

 The anomalous habit which the female possesses of visiting the 

 nests of smaller species of birds when she wishes to deposit her 

 eggs, and thus shifting a responsibility which she should alone 

 assume, is familar to all. There is no doubt that primitively all 

 species were as equally social and gregarious in their habits as the 

 cow-bird of to-day ; and that the present system of mating, which 

 is surely an index of a high state of improvement, has been 

 gradually evolved. The art of nest-building has doubtless also 

 been slowly acquired. In some families it has attained a wonder- 

 ful degree of perfection, while in others it may be said to be in its 

 infancy. With the cowMjird either it has never been studied, so 

 to speak, or else it is a lost art which the species has never been 

 able to regain. 



The species of birds which seem to be the objects of its special 

 regard, are comprehended within the three great families of the 

 Sylmcolidse, Vireonidse, and Fringillidae; Geothlyxjis trichas, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



Cab.; Vii^eo olivaceiis, Y'le'iL ] V. novahoracensis, Bonap; Cyano- 

 spiza cyanea, Baird ; and 3Ielospiza melodia, Baird. Why the 

 small birds should be the recipients of such unsolicited favors it 

 would be difficult to guess, -unless the cowardly spirit of the 

 species under consideration operates to prevent similar discour- 

 tesies being shown where they would probably be resented. As 

 a proof of said cowardice, might be cited the stealthy manner in 

 which the female approaches the nest of any of the above species. 

 She is ev^r on the alert for fear of detection by the rightful 

 owners. In case of discovery she takes to flight, sometimes fail- 

 ing to complete her work ; but when suddenly pressed, she is 

 compelled to drop her egg. This will account for the eggs which 

 are occasionally seen either entire or broken upon the ground. 

 It is said that the egg of the cow-bird hatches rather sooner than 

 those of the birds among which it is found, and from this it is 

 argued by some, that it is a wise provision of nature, which, 

 were it otherwise ordered, would defeat the end she had in view. 

 The writer knows from experience that sometimes a nest of eggs 

 is a longer time in hatching than at others; the difference of time 

 being the evident result of variation in the amount of heat to 

 which they are subjected. Now, the egg of the cow-bird being 

 perceptibly larger than the others, would receive more heat from 

 the body of the female than the latter's own, for the simple reason 

 that it is in closer proximity to the source of heat. This seems to 

 be a satisfactor}^ explanation of its much shorter period of incuba- 

 tion. Were the eggs hatched by their rightful author, there is no 

 doubt that the time would vary but a trifle, if any, from that of 

 the rust}' black-bird. 



Agelaieus phoeniceus, Vieil. 



At the time of writing, March 24th, not a single individual of 

 this species is to be seen, while the purple grakle is found in pro- 

 digious numbers. About the first of April is the usual time of its 

 appearance witli us. Like the crow-black-bird, it is fond of society, 

 many pairs being observed building within a few paces of each 

 other in the same swamp or meadow. Occasionally a nest is 

 constructed within a tussock of grass, but generally upon the 

 alder bushes so common along the borders of meadow streams, 

 where the eggs and young are less liable to the attacks of snakes, 

 particularly Bascanion constrictor and Tropidonotus sipedo7i which 

 seem to have such a decided penchant for such fare. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In structure those found upon bushes are finer and more com- 

 pact. On the exterior are observed occasional patches of mud. 

 While those built upon the small mounds in swampy situations are 

 surrounded by tall overarching grasses, and have in consequence 

 a looseness of arrangement which in general 'will scarcely bear 

 manipulation. 



In the selection of a localit^^ there is manifest an evidence of 

 design. High grounds are seldom chosen for nidification, for the 

 obvious reason that the birds are not so apt to meet )vith such a 

 ready and full supply of the various species of insects which pander 

 to their appetites and those of their 3- oung as in the former situa- 

 tions. The insects which afford them a living in such localities, are 

 the aquatic larvse of ephemerids, dragonflies, and mosquitoes which 

 are found in the small shallow pools so abundant therein ; together 

 with mature forms of the same a variety which the most fastidi- 

 ous bon vivani among the aves cannot fail to appreciate. 



It has been affirmed that the red wings are destructive to far- 

 mers' crops, but as far as the writer's experience extends, the 

 damage which they do is small in comparison with the good 

 which thej' accomplish. When a cornfield is in close proximity 

 to a meadow, it is probable that a few grains may be exhumed, or 

 a few tender shoots uprooted, in early spring, but I am certain that 

 the birds during the breeding season are so strongly attached to 

 the meadows that the}' are reluctant to leave them. In the fall 

 of the 3'ear they may visit the cornfields and pluck a few grains 

 from the standing shocks, but in view of the manifold advantages 

 gained by the myriads of insects destroj^ed, we should not grudge 

 them a mere pittance of corn, since, at this season of the 3'ear, 

 they are doubtless productive of immense good in the destruction 

 of various coleopterous and lepidopterous larvae. 



Stumella magna, Swainson. 



This beautiful species, though quite common in this latitude 

 during the breeding season, according to the writer's observations 

 makes its appearance from the first to the fifteenth of April. It 

 is not gregarious in early spring like the purple grakle, but ar- 

 rives from the south already paired for the essential duties of 

 nidification and incubation. It does not commence building ope- 

 rations, however, earlier than the last of April or the begin)iing of 

 May; the interval of time being enii)loyed, judging from the 

 manoeuvres of the birds, in the selection of a desirable and suit- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



able locality. The site chosen is, as is well known, a meadow. 

 Samuels affirms, "the localit}- is generally in a meadow or low 

 field." I have as often found the nest on upland in a field of red 

 clover or one of timoth}^ grass. In such situations it reposes in 

 a concavity of the earth, partially hidden and protected b}' en- 

 veloping and over-arching grasses.' Nuttall's description thereof, 

 though correct in his da}', according to the writer's experience 

 needs some modification. As the nest of the same species varies 

 with a change of locality, this difference may be attributed thereto. 

 According to that eminent authority "it is compact, made of wiry 

 grass, to which a hidden and almost winding path is made, and 

 generally so well concealed that the nest is only to be found when 

 the bird is flushed." I have alwa3rs observed a looseness of 

 arrangement in its structure. The materials out of which it is 

 built are the hollow stems and leaves of Phleum pratense. These 

 are accumulated principally in the bottom, to insure protection 

 against the dampness of the ground. 



It is seldom that the hen bird can be detected on the nest. 

 When alarmed by approaching footsteps, there is no sudden up- 

 rising or whirring of wings as is usual. Aware of danger, she 

 quietly slips out of the nest and noiselessly wends her way through 

 the thicket of grasses, along well-beaten paths which she has made 

 for the purpose. 



The food of the meadow lark consists chiefly of larval insects, 

 together with earthworms, beetles, grasshoppers, and the seeds of 

 grasses. Nuttall says it does not appear that it ever adds berries 

 or fruits to its bill of fare. The writer is confident he has seen it 

 feasting upon the small black cherry which is so plentiful during 

 the month of June. The period of incubation is from 14 to 15 

 days according to various observations. 



Subfamily Icterin^, 

 Icterus spurius, Bonap. 



The orchard oriole is quite as common as its near relative. It 

 reaches us from the genial South about the first of May. Samuels, 

 in describing its nest in Massachusetts, says substantially, it is 

 deposited on a forked branch of a tree in an orchard, at an eleva- 

 tion of not more than twenty feet from the ground, and constructed 

 of different grasses neatly and compactly woven together 5 the whole 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



being lined with fine grasses and a few hairs. Further, he says, 

 "it is not pensile but built on a branch." Its style of architecture 

 varies no doubt with the latitude. Of the many nests which 

 have been examined, including many in the writer's collection, all 

 with but one or two exceptions were of a decidedly pensile char- 

 acter; uniform in texture, and suspended from slender branchlets 

 after the fashion of Icterus Baltimore, Dandin. The exceptional 

 cases were placed between the forked branches of trees. These 

 nests, with two exceptions, have been found upon apple and 

 pear trees, in close proximity to the residence of man ; the ex- 

 ceptions were noticed on the confines of forests, at considerable 

 distances therefrom. There is no doubt that in earlier times this 

 oriole was as timid and suspicious of man as many other species 

 that might be cited ; and that as time advanced it gradually lost 

 all fear. Familiarit}^ with man, the result no doubt of many 

 years' experience, has taught it to regard him in the light of a 

 friend. In the fact that the nest of this species is occasionally 

 found on the borders of immense thickets, we have a clue to its 

 past history. In the writer's opinion, reserve, timidit}', and dis- 

 trust were then the leading elements of its character, while famili- 

 arity, a certain degree of boldness and confidence are traits which 

 now stand prominently forth. 



A typical nest of the species measures 2^ inches in diameter 

 and 4^ inches in depth. It is pouch-shaped, and attached to the 

 slender twigs of an apple or pear tree in such a manner as to be 

 swayed to and fi*o by the gentlest breeze. It is built of the soft 

 and flexible leaves of a species of Poa, neatly and compactl3'' 

 woven togetlier, and lined on the inner side with much narrower 

 leaves of a closel}^ allied species. The site selected is usually one 

 where the small spurs of the pear and apple, prineipall}" the former, 

 with their crowns of leaves can meet over the nest and form a roof 

 to protect the female and young from inclement weather. 



During the breeding season its chief food is beetles, flies, lepi- 

 doptera, earthworms, and various larvae. The seeds of grasses 

 are occasional!}'' relished. It is highly insectivorous in its nature. 

 I am not able to say whether it has a fondness for fruits and 

 berries, but am inclined to the belief that it will not refuse a juicy 

 berry if thrown within its way; but that it will not put itself to 

 any inconvenience to obtain the same I am well aware. 



In the duties of incubation the male takes no direct part. I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



have often observed him bringing food to the female while thus 

 engaged. When the young have developed from the egg, both 

 parents are extremely sedulous in their attention to them until 

 they have attained their feathered stage, when the mother seems 

 to hand them over to the father to initiate into the mysteries of 

 aerial navigation. There is but one brood in the season, as far as 

 I have been able to determine, although I have seen nests in the 

 early part of August with rather tender fledglings. The period 

 of incubation ranges from fourteen to fifteen days. 



Family CORYID.E. 



Corvus Americanus, Audubon. 



The above species is very abundant throughout the summer in 

 this section of the country', and the writer has observed through 

 the severest winter weather numberless individuals roosting in 

 the junipers and cedars of the hills of the Wissahickon, when the 

 snow stood several inches upon the ground. The birds commence 

 pairing about the last of April, seldom earlier than the fifteenth, 

 and shortly afterwards commence building. The nests are usually 

 built upon the various species of oaks, and occasionally upon 

 some of Pinus. They are large in dimensions, fully 18 inches in 

 diameter at the base, and from 8 to 10 inches in depth; the thick- 

 ness of the walls is from 3 to 4 inches. They are constructed of 

 coarse rude sticks externally, of the thickness of a lady's ring 

 finger, mostly fragments of dead branches that had fallen from 

 the oaks and chestnut. Within are smaller twigs of the same 

 covered by a few dried leaves of Quercus and Fagus to relieve its 

 hardness. All the nests that I have examined, and I have had 

 abundant opportunities, answer to the above description, whicii 

 will be found to differ materially from others. Usually but one 

 brood is reared in a season ; the writer has met with two, but 

 this is of rare occurrence. 



Nests have been taken close by the dwellings of man, showing 

 the friendly disposition of the authors. Usually the species is 

 very shy and builds in places seldom visited. When with young 

 the birds are very pugnacious, permitting no intrusion within 

 their jurisdiction. They manifest the most tender regard for their 

 progenj', and exercise the most jealous care over them. Notwith- 

 standing the mischief they commit to the farmers' crops, and their 

 frequent raids to the poultr3^ yards, the good which they accom- 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



plish in the destruction of noxious insects and small animals 

 should commend them to public favor. Besides subsisting upon 

 insects, small animals, carrion, grass, and fruits, I have in two 

 instances observed individuals, which I took to be males, imitating 

 the habit of their nearest kin, the fish crow, by plying the trade of 

 fishers. There is no doubt that in the case of Corvus ossifragus, 

 this habit was similarly acquired b}'^ a few birds of more sagacity 

 than others. The period of incubation I have not satisfactorily 

 determined, but am confident that it cannot exceed eighteen days. 



Corvus ossifragus. 



This species, though assigned to the South Atlantic and Gulf 

 States by Dr. Coues in his Key to North American Birds, has 

 been observed by the writer during the past four years to breed 

 within the rural districts of Philadelphia. Although designated 

 by the same great authoritj^ as a maritime species, yet it should 

 be considered only partially so. It has been observed in company 

 with its near relative the common crow, and commences buildino- 

 at the same period. Its nest, unlike that of the crow, is constructed 

 upon a willow, by the side of a watercourse, where it can ply its 

 piscine trade without being molested. Externally, it consists of 

 a few rude sticks as a sort of foundation, upon wliich a neat and 

 comfortable superstructure, composed of the inner fibrous parts 

 of the red cedar, is placed, loosel}^ arranged, the whole present- 

 ing a neater and more fastidious appearance than that of the 

 common crow. The eggs are four in number. The ground-color 

 is a light blue marked with a few dots and blotches of umber- 

 brown on the small end, which are more or less confluent on the 

 large one, obscuring to a considerable extent the background. In 

 size they are but little superior to the eggs of the purple grakle, 

 being about 1.40 in. in length, and .89 in width. In configuration 

 they bear a very close resemblance to those of the great crested Fly 

 Catcher, being almost perfectly oval. There is a marked contrast 

 between the eggs of ossifragus and Americanus in size, shape, 

 and markings, sufficiently striking to convince one of the distinct- 

 ness of the two species, even though other details should be 

 wanting. I have never met with more than one brood in a season. 

 It is like its cousin in some points of character, but minus its 

 thievish propensities. A fisher by trade, it holds all other occupa- 

 tions at a discount. It is fond of its young, but has not the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



courage to defend them against the attacks of enemies, as the 

 former. Since it breeds usually in out-of-the-way situations, it 

 can give farmers and others but little anno^^ance. Its period of 

 incubation is similar to that of Americanaa. 



Family TYRANNID^. 



Tyrannus Carolinensis, Baird. 



The Bee Martin, shortly after its arrival in the latter pai't of 

 April, commences building. Its nest is ordinarily constructed 

 upon the forked branches of a pear tree in an orchard, or in close 

 proximity thereto. Why the pear tree should be selected in 

 preference to any other, the apple and cherry for examples, it is 

 difficult to imagine, unless the density of its foliage, and the short 

 spine-like twigs with which the branches are armed, afford greater 

 protection ; the former from the keen gaze of rapacious birds, and 

 the latter from mischief-seeking and mischief-loving boys. It is 

 usually built near the top of the tree where the denser foliage is 

 found. Occasionally, I have taken nests of this species in places 

 remote from orchards, on the confines of thick forests, a fact which 

 seems to intimate that the habit of building in orchards is an 

 acquired one, brought about in obedience to a change of character 

 in the species. As it has a passion for the little Apis mellifica 

 whose hives are found in such situations, there is no doubt that a 

 desire to be near such articles of luxury raa^' have prompted a 

 change, thereby saving unnecessary waste of time in procurement, 

 and giving a better guarantee of success. It is true that the 

 species is proverbial for its pugnacity and pertinacity, not even 

 fearing to attack birds of pre}'^ which come within the precincts of 

 the ground over which it exercises sway, and, therefore, the 

 securities which a pear tree throws around are not absolutely 

 necessary. But birds of the least sagacity would not be slow to 

 perceive the advantage which would be gained b}- the selection of 

 such a site, in the saving of great physical labor. In the vicinity 

 of forests these protective objects are in a measure denied, the 

 birds in consequence making up in braverj^ Perhaps a vivid 

 sense of greater danger to their young induces them to give them 

 the advantage of everything protective that wisdom and ingenuity 

 can devise. There is one feature about the nests which have been 

 found in regions unoccupied by man that has not been observed 

 in those adjoining his residence : the entire absence of feathers 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and hairs in the interior; these articles being substituted by fine 

 grasses and leaves. The period of incubation ranges from 13 to 

 14 days according to circumstances. 



Myiarchus crinitis, Cab. 



This species is very abundant in this latitude, arriving from the 

 South during the early part of May, and shortl}^ afterwards 

 l)airing. Both birds engage in nest building. The nest is con- 

 structed in a hollow tree, mostly a pear or an apple ; no doubt 

 the previous labor of some hard-working wood-pecker, possibly 

 Golaptes auratus. Mr. Samuels sa^'s, "the nests are composed of 

 straws, leaves, feathers, and the cast-off skins of snakes." He 

 further affirms, "it seems a distinguishing characteristic of the 

 nests of this species, to have the skins of one or more snakes 

 woven into the other materials." This has also been the expe- 

 rience of others. Mine has been quite different. I have yearly 

 collected many nests of this species, and find a great difference 

 in the materials. The following is the aggregate description : 

 Loose in arrangement, with scarcely the slightest evidence of 

 design. To an observer, it seems as if the materials had been 

 dropped into the cavity by the birds, and, when a sufficient quan- 

 tity had been accumulated, the whole had been shaken together 

 until the ingredients had been thoroughly commingled. Dried 

 grasses, liber of trees, rotten wood, and feathers are the chief 

 constituents; the slough of snakes being an nnuoticeable feature. 

 In lieu thereof, I have always found the feathers of the common 

 barnyard fowl to be a characteristic feature thereof. 



That this species does not always build in cavities is certain. 

 Two years ago, near Germantown, I found a nest built between 

 the forked branches of an apple tree. It was composed princi- 

 pally of the feathers of chickens, held in place by a woof of long 

 grasses. Though not very compact, yet it was sufficiently so to 

 last during the season. It is doubtful, however, whether it could 

 withstand the peltings of winter. The habit of building within 

 the hollows of trees is doubtless an acquired one, rendered neces- 

 sary by external circumstances. That species do occasionally^ 

 vary in the selection of a site for a nest, is instanced b}^ Tardus 

 migraforius, Lin., which, as is well known, ordinarily builds its 

 mud-plastered nest within the forked branches of a tree. In the 

 case to which the writer refers, the nest was found upon the hori- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 105 



zontal beam of a,n outhouse, to Avliicli the rafters are attached, 

 after the manner of Sayornis fuscus^ Baird. The case oi M. cri- 

 nitus cited above seems to the writer to be a case of reversion of 

 habits. 



Why this species alone of all others of the family to which it 

 belongs should seek shelter and protection for its young in the 

 hollows of trees, is hard to divine. We should expect to see in 

 its structure a family resemblance. It is true that it is of a 

 quarrelsome disposition, and as a necessary consequence, gains 

 many enemies. To insure protection for its young against the 

 latter's attacks, it has hit upon the happy expedient of hiding 

 them away in the places designated. 



The feathers selected for the nest are mostly white, or of a 

 grayish color, which, with the characteristic hue of the inner bark 

 of trees and the rotten wood that form the bulk of the nest, i*e- 

 semble so closely the ground color of the egg and its markings, 

 that great advantage is gained thereby. The food of this species 

 is mostly bees, beetles, grasshoppers, and lepidoptera. Perched 

 upon a dead branch of a tree, the writer has observed the male 

 bird, for hours, bobbing the head this way and that, then up and 

 down, always on the alert for the beings which form its appro- 

 priate diet. During the period when the species is with young, 

 ma}^ be noticed similar practices, Avhich, however, are not so pro- 

 longed, for the male bird after brief periods of time repairs to the 

 nest with its spoils, which are dealt out to the female and the 

 young according to the character of the food. The period of in- 

 cubation ranges from 13 to 14 days. 



Order PICARI-ffi. 

 Family CAPRIMULGID^E. 



Subfamily Caprimulgin^. 

 Antrostomus vociferus, Bonap. 



This common and little known species arrives during the earl}' 

 part of May, already paired. It is of a shy and retired disposition, 

 secluding itself during the daytime in close forests, among the 

 leaves or underbrush, only venturing forth during the shadowy 

 twilight in quest of its food, which consists of crepuscular and 

 nocturnal lepidoptera and various species of Phj-llophagous 

 beetles. Such a partialit}' has it for the covert of woods that the 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



writer has never startled it in the open- fields. The dull and 

 sombre shadows cast upon the ground by the fluttering leaves of 

 the trees, with the faint streaks of light that come and go between 

 their interstices, combined with the dark colors of the leaves that 

 repose upon the soil, create a sort of gray light, which beautifully 

 harmonizes with the natural tints of the bird. In my travels I 

 have often observed a whip-poor-will to start up within fifteen 

 paces of me, and after fl3'ing a short distance on swift and noise- 

 less pinions, to alight upon the ground. After indicating the spot 

 by a certain bush or fallen limb, I have stealthily approached, 

 straining my vision to its utmost capacity to gain a glimpse of 

 the squatting bird, but before I could gratify my desire, she 

 was up and off" again. Time after time has been so spent, but 

 seldom has it been my fortune to witness the consummation 

 of this desire. It has never been my lot to see the male and 

 female together during the period of incubation. The merest 

 apology of a nest is all that is constructed. By the side of a 

 fallen and decayed log, usually on the side where the deepest 

 shadow is found, the female has been observed to deposit her 

 eggs. A slight concavity is scooped out b}^ her, and frequently 

 lined with decayed wood, reduced to a powdered condition, the 

 site being selected where a read}' supply of the material is at hand. 

 There is never more than one brood in a season. The period of 

 incubation ranges from fourteen to fifteen days. I have often 

 been surprised while travelling to notice how conscious it is of 

 approaching steps even when the greatest caution is observed to 

 avoid giving alarm. Its visual organs being ill-adapted to the 

 light of day, and even the mellowed light of the woods being too 

 powerful a stimulus, it is certain that it must depend upon other 

 means for the detection of danger. The organ of hearing, which 

 is well developed, is assuredly called into requisition. This species 

 makes its appearance rather late in the season, when the sun has 

 obtained considerable power, and retires earlj-, frequently as early 

 as the 25th of September. 



Family TROCHILID^E. 

 Subfamily Trochilin^. 



Trochilus colubris, Linn. 



This beautiful little species, which is the only one of its family 

 limited to this section of country (E. Penn.), makes its appearance 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 107 



during the early part of Ma3^, about the time the horse chestnut 

 (jEscuhis hi];)pocastanum) spreads its rich clusters of fragrant 

 blossoms to the vernal breezes. The small insects which frequent 

 the blossoms for their honey, together with the honey itself, afford 

 it a rich repast. It commences building during the early part of 

 June, both birds working assiduously until the nest is completed. 

 In the spring of 1812, Master Charles Silverthorn, one of the 

 writer's pupils, secured for the latter's collection at least fifteen 

 nests, from a district scarcely one-fourth of a mile in diameter, 

 thus showing the abundance of the species in this latitude. Some 

 of these nests were saddled upon the moss-covered branches of an 

 apple or pear tree, while the major part of them was found upon 

 the branches of various species of oaks, chiefly Quercus rubra and 

 Quercus alba. They were constructed of a W00II3' substance of 

 vegetable origin, plucked from the leaves of Verbascum thapsus, 

 L., of almost immaculate whiteness. It is doubtful whether the 

 soft down which appears upon the unexpanded leaves of the pop- 

 lars is utilized, since the leaves are already developed in the gene- 

 rality of cases when nidification commences. The exterior of the 

 nest is compactly covered by a thatching of bluish-colored lichens, 

 possibly a Parmelia, glued thereon by a viscid saliva, secreted by 

 the birds. I have never observed, as some, the small woody fibres 

 on the outside, which are said to strengthen the fabric. Occasion- 

 ally a few cobwebs have been noticed, but the manner in which 

 the lichens cohere seems to be all that is necessary. The nests are 

 usually 1.50 inch in diameter, with a depth of 1.75 inch. Speci- 

 mens have been taken fully 2 inches in ' depth. The internal 

 cavity never exceeds | of an inch in depth, while instances are 

 known of small nests with less than ^ inch. The writer has taken 

 nests during the latter part of Juh*, with eggs, but whether a 

 second set or not he is unable to say, possibly the work of pairs 

 that have been frustrated in their labors during the earl}^ part of 

 the season. During the hatching period the male is in close 

 proximity to the nest, and if any attempt is made to interfere 

 therewith, is foremost and loudest in his cries of resentment, and 

 even flies into the intruder's face with half opened jaws, requiring 

 considerable effort to beat him off. His mate is of a more passive 

 nature. The period of incubation, according to the writer's esti- 

 mate, is about eight days. So susceptible to cold is the species 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that I have known it to leave for the sunny south as early as the 

 10th of September. 



Family CUCULID^E. 



Subfamily Coccyzin^. 

 Coccyzus Americanus. 



This species, a very common resident during the warm season, 

 arrives from the south during the latter part of April, and retires 

 to its genial warmth early in the fall, frequently as early as the 

 first of October. In this neighborhood the nest is usually con- 

 structed between the forked branches of Madura aurantiaca, at 

 an elevation of about ten feet from the ground. It is composed 

 externally of small sticks and rude grasses, and lined internalh' 

 with fine grasses. The male bird scarcely forsakes his mate during 

 incubation, save to provide himself and her with food. When not 

 thus engaged, he perches upon a limb of the same tree, within a 

 short distance of the nest, ever watchful of her, and apparently 

 ready to administer to her slightest calls. Feelings of the tender- 

 est sympathy and the most devoted affection are mutually ex- 

 hibited. It is not shy and timid in disposition, but shows con- 

 fidence in man hy building close to his domains. In tlie spring 

 of 1872, from mj^ school window I could command a view of a 

 nest of this species, and obsjprve the minutest details of its every- 

 day life. My pupils frequently in their plays would pass under- 

 neath the tree, while the birds were engaged in building, but so 

 intent were they upon their work that the}' heeded not their 

 presence. The nest was completed, eggs were deposited and 

 hatched, and the young matured ; the parent birds evidentl}' feel- 

 ing as secure as in more sequestered situations. Such friendship 

 as is here displayed should strike a sympathetic cord in the bosom 

 of relentless man, and induce him to throw around such unsus- 

 pecting creatures the ajgis of his protection. The period of incu- 

 bation is fourteen daj's. When the female is with young, the duty 

 of feeding devolves upon the male, who, with the instincts of a 

 faithful husband and father, administers with alacrity to their 

 physical wants. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Family PICID.E. 



Melanerpes erythrocephalus, Sw. 



This beautiful species is of rave occurrence in tlie vicinit}^ of 

 Pliiladelphia during tlie breeding season. It is more abundant, 

 however, farther west. In the counties of Union and Northum- 

 berland, of the State of Pennsylvania, the writer has observed it 

 in great numbers. There it is the principal species, as Golaptes 

 au7-atus, Swainson, is in the east. It arrives seldom earlier than 

 the first week in Maj', and soon begins to excavate a cavity in a 

 tree for its nest. The place selected is ordinarily' an apple tree 

 close by the habitation of man, but occasionally a more secluded 

 and retired spot. The writer has often observed the nests in the 

 hollows of partially decaj^ed willows upon the margins of ponds. 

 The cavity ranges from ten to twelve inches in depth, being some- 

 what wider at the bottom than at the entrance ; the latter being 

 just wide enough to admit the body of the bird. Dr. Thompson, 

 in his work entitled "Birds of Vermont," affirms that " the larger 

 end of the egg is marked with reddish spots." This variety I 

 have never observed. It may be an exceptional occurrence in 

 more northern latitudes. From Samuels' description of the site 

 selected for nidiflcation, it would seem that this species is of a 

 timid nature. Familiarit}' with its habits has convinced me that 

 it is remarkablj" unsuspicious, and courts rather than shuns the 

 society of man. In the month of August, not later than the 10th, 

 in the central part of this State, the writer has seen immense flocks 

 of this bird, numbering hundreds, within an apple orchard, tap- 

 ping the rough and fissured bark of the trees in quest of the insects 

 that lurk therein. So tame and confiding were they, that it was 

 possible to approach within a few paces of them without exciting 

 suspicion or creating alarm. In the vicinity of the White Deer 

 Mountains, in the count}^ of TJnion, they abound in immense num- 

 bers during the breeding season, and are the objects of protection 

 by the farmers, for the good which they accomplish in the destruc- 

 tion of m^'riads of insects. The period of incubation ranges from 

 fourteen to fifteen days. The usual complement of eggs is two, 

 occasionally three have been found. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



July 7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger. in the chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 

 The death of Dr. Governeur Emerson was announced. 



Prof. Persifor Frazer, .Jr., made the folloTving remarks : 



I had the honor, at the hist meeting, of presenting to the Aca- 

 demy for its consideration, some attempts to reconcile the results 

 of the analyses of minerals 1)3' tlie best chemists with formulas, 

 which were constructed on the doctrine of quantivalence, i. e., the 

 known atom-saturating power of the elements. In my former 

 communication I endeavored to show that such a mixture of defi- 

 nite chemical compounds (generally cr3^stalli^ing in different sys- 

 tems) as was indicated b}^ the greater number of the old formulas 

 could not have those characteristic physical properties which serve 

 to distinguish homogeneous bodies from each other ; and above 

 all, that no mixture of two minerals crj-stallizing in different sys- 

 tems could produce a third cr\^stallizing in still another S3'stem. 

 I stated that there seemed to be onl3' two cases in which the for- 

 mation of minerals in this way is possible ; the one where one of 

 the compounds preponderates to such an extent that the resulting 

 mass is moulded according to its own morphological law ; aiid the 

 other where the resulting mass is not crystallized at all, but at 

 most cr3'stalline, 2. e., made up of minute cr3'stals or individuals 

 of each species, but simpl3- ^ggi'cgated together. 



That such is the explanation of man)' crystalline and cr3'pto- 

 crystalline rocks the microscope has sufficientl3' demonstrated, 

 and it would hardl3^ be going too far to sa3^, that, wherever an 

 amorphous mineral shows such a chemical constitution that its 

 elements cannot be brought into a single formula consistent with 

 what we alread3' know of the behavior of its anion and cathion 

 radicals, a strong probabilit3' exists that the mineral is simph^ a 

 mixture. 



On this hypothesis of the case the circumstance cannot fail to 

 demand explanation that the same mixtures in the same propor- 

 tions should so often occur with similar paragenesis ; and it is 

 not to be denied that this fact needs careful study'. 



But in man3' instances the cause of this uuiformit3', itself appa- 

 rently the result of chance, is to be traced to disintegration of a 

 previousl3' existing mineral into two or more others, or the partial 

 alteration of one mineral into another throughout its whole mass, 

 and by the action of outside forces. 



Thus chalcop3'rite might suffer partial decomposition into chal- 

 cocite and jna-ite, or into tenorite and hematite, or into all four of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



these minerals, and while the mass could hav^e no crystal form of 

 its own, the mutual ratios of the resulting compounds would be 

 more constant as the process of decomposition was more perfect. 



It often results that in calculating a formula for a so-called 

 species the results of analyses of specimens from widely distant 

 localities, and made by different persons, agree remarkably well 

 together, while the atomic ratio is such as to resist all efforts to 

 bring these atoms into one homogeneous compound Often, too, 

 the student sees clearly that he is dealing with a partiallj' decora- 

 posed mass, and would, perhaps, be justified in writing "a, per 

 cent, of the mineral A with &, per cent, of the mineral B dissemi- 

 nated through it," but it is obvious that he must assign wide 

 limits to a and 6; and if the species possess that patent of genuine- 

 ness, crystal form, unless he define those limits his formula loses 

 its value. 



Take the case of smaltite. This mineral has veiy well-marked 

 physical properties and unmistakable crj'^stal form, and is an arse- 

 nate of cobalt, iron, and nickel, but its per cent, of As varies from 

 59 percent. (Salvetal & Wertheim) to about 75 per cent. (Karsten); 

 the Co from per cent. (Rammelsberg) to 20 per cent. (Stro- 

 meyer) ; the Ni from per cent. (Yarrentrapp & Stromeyer) to 

 29.50 (Rammelsberg); the Fe from trace (Rammelsberg) to IS 

 (von Kobell) ; Cu from per cent. (Lange, Booth, Karsten, &c.) 

 to 2 per cent. (Jackel). Besides these very large varieties of com- 

 position there are frequentlj^ found other elements with it, such 

 as Bi and S. Howls a formula to be constructed for such a 

 mineral? 



The only recourse is to the R's, and we have no less than four 

 groups of formulas proposed b}' Dana, under one of which every 

 smaltite yet analyzed can be brought. The first two of these are 

 really identical, and differ only in the different proportions in 

 which the analogous elements Is^'i, Co, and Fe, replace each other, 

 and may be written RAs^. But the next group (C) has the for- 

 mula RAs -f RAs,, and the third (D) RAs. + RASg. 



Independently' of the presumptive evidence against such a mix- 

 ture producing a beautiful octahedron of smaltite, where is to be the 

 limit to such formulas ? Why not RAs -|- RAs, -|- RASg -j- etc. ? 

 And would it not be well to adopt some more definite rule for 

 assigning formulas to minerals of such variable composition ? 



Without naming these laws certain facts can be assumed on 

 which to base them: 1st. If there is no single chemical formula 

 which expresses the constitution of a crj-stallized mineral, then 

 that mineral is a mixture. 2d. Its form is determined by the 

 preponderance in quantit}^ or in crystallizing power, or both, of 

 one of its constituents. 3d. The mineral can only present its 

 characteristics when the foreign ingredients are present under a 

 given per cent. 



The plan would seem to be to deduce from the known charac- 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



teristics of the simpler compouncls which most resembk it, to 

 which of them it owed its morphological properties; and, having 

 decided this question, to write the formula, for that mineral as the 

 si^ecies, and consider the other as a complex variety of it, 



I append some few names of minerals with their old and new 

 rational formulas generally compared, and in addition to the usual 

 method of writing these new formulas I have added that form of 

 graphic symbol which presents fewest typographical difficulties. 



Old Formula. New Formula. 



Niccolite. 

 NiAs Ni^^As^ As^=:Ni"or } .^. 



As"^ = Ni'^ Ni^^EEAs'" 



Breithauptite. 



NiSb (NiJ^'^Sb./" 



NigSb, 



Bornite. 



(Cure)S (Cu,)3"fS,"i(re,)'^ 



(Cuj3"FeJ^S, 



(Eecalculated from one of the 

 original records of analysis.) 



Chalcop3'rite. 



Cu.^S + FeS+FeS, (D) {Cu.y'=S,''=FeJ'=S^'\ 



usually Cu.S + Fe.Sg ' (Cu,)"Fe/^S, 



Barnhardite. 



2CuS+FeS+FeS, (Cu4"=S^" = Fe.7i=S 



(CuJ,Fe,S, ' 



Calaverite. 



Au,Te^ Te"=An"^ Te" Te" 



Au"^=Te" 



Au"n^e.," Te/'Au"^ 

 (AV"Te,"), ' 



Miargyrite. 



Ag,S+Sb,S3 Ag^ S" Sb"i=S" 



Ag^Sb"^S, 



^.IC-I-vIIIli^ 11 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Old Formula. New Formula. 



(Antimonial.) Tetraheclrite. 



4CUS + SKS3 (CuJ"=S,"=Sb^ S" Sb^=S,"=(Cu.J" 



(Cu,),"Sb,S, 

 (Arsenical.) Tetrahedrite. 



4CuS + As,S3 (Cu;;"=S.,"=As^ S" As^=S,"=(Cu,)'' 



II II 



S" S" 



(Cu,),"As,S, 



Witticbenite. 



3CU3S + BI3S3 S"= Bi"^ S" (Cu.,)/^= 



= S3"=Bi"^ 



(Cu,),"Bi,/"S." 

 Note. Dana gives the atomic ratio of Cu : Bi : S : : 3 : 1 : 3. From his 

 seventh record of analysis (by Schneider), however, this ratio is 4 : 2 : 5. 



Stromej-erite. 

 (Ag,Cu,)S (Cu,)"=S,"=Ag./ 



((Cu,)"Ag./)S," 

 Note. The atomic ratio expressed in Dana's formula is Ag : Cu : S : : 

 1 : 2 : 1, whereas from Stromeyer's analysis it appears very clearly as 1 : 1 : 1. 



Dufrenite. 

 Karsten's Analysis D2. 



I I 



0"=Fe.7^ = 03"EEEP^=0"J 



Libetbenite. 



4CuO.P03-{-HO From tbe atomic ratio. 



Cu : P : II : : : 2 : 1 : 1 : 5 



Cn,"=^0^ = P^ 0" IP 

 (HCu,")(P^O,")'' 

 Olivenite. 

 4CuO.(P,As)0,+ H,p ((H^CiOAs^O,"), 



Cn./^^0,=As^ 6" H' 

 Note. Some P replaces As. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Old Formula. New Formula. 



Malachite. 



2CuO.CO, Cu," = 0," = C^^+aq 



Domeykite. 



(Cuj3"As/" 



Dyscrasite. 

 Ag.Sb Sb^lAg3 



Calculated from orisfinal re- 

 cord of analysis by Rammels- 

 berg (No. 9 in Dana). 



Leucopyrite. 



FeAs^ As^ Fe" As'^ 



Fe"As/ 



Linnaeite. 



2CoS + CoSa Co"= S,"= Co^^= S,"= Co" 



C03S," 



Skutterudite. 



C0AS3 As3^=Coi^ Co^^eeAs.^ 



(Co,)^^As/ 



Sylvanite. 



(Ag,Au)Te3 Ag^Te" An'"=Te" 



(Ag^Au"OTe/i 



Jamesonite. 



2(Pb,Fe)S + Sb,S3 Pb"=S/'=Sb"' S" Pb" 



_S" Sb"^=S" 

 with Fe replacing Pb, or 



Pb,"Sb,/"S3" 



Chalcostibite. 



Cu,S + Sb,S3 (CuJ"=S3"=Sb"^ = S," 



^ (Cig"(Sb-S,")3^ 



Bournonite. 



3(CuPb)S + Sh,S, Sb"i= S3" = Pb.," S" Sb"i= 



= S,"=(Cu,)" 

 (Pb,"(Cu.,)")(Sb"^S3")/" 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Old Formula. New Formula. 



Stephaiiite. 



5AgS + Sb,S3 Ag,^lS,"lSb^ 



Ag,^Sb-S," 

 Note Dana's first record of analysis by H. Rose gives atomic ratio of 

 Sb : S : Ag : : 1 : 4.3 : 5.2, but the indications are of a compound as above. 



Sartorite. 

 PbS +Sb,S3 Pb"=S./i=Sb,/" = S.," 



Pb"(Sb"iS/03 

 Brochantite. 

 From Forchhammer's Analysis (D 3). 

 (3CuO.S03),+ CuO.HO The ratio of 



Cu : : S : H : : .3 : 9 : 1 : 6 



hence 



Cu,"=0,"=S^^=0,"=Cu"+ 



+ aq 



hence Cu3"S^^O"+(H.p)3 



Change of Habit in Smilacina hifolia. Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 remarked that this plant, as was Avell known, was usually terres- 

 trial, preferring generall}^ the A'icinit}^ of large trees. It propagates 

 itself b}" underground stolons, advancing but a few inches each 

 season ; the stolons of the preceding year djing as soon as a new 

 one was made. He had recently seen a case where the stolons had 

 advanced from the ground, and up the trunk of a large chestnut 

 tree, to the height of about two feet ; the original stolons for sev- 

 eral years back having died awa}^, and the plant taken in a purel}^ 

 epiphytal character. The I-oots and stolons mostly had penetrated 

 the coarse, rough bark of the chestnut tree, the leaves only being 

 chiefly visible. The fact is trifling, and in old times, perhaps, 

 hardly worth recording ; but in these days, when the change of 

 character in connection with the evolution of form had such a 

 general interest, even this was worth recording. 



July 14. 



The President, Dr. R,uschenberger, in the chair. 



Seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"On Fertilization of certain Flowers through Insect Agency, 

 and other jNIatters Botanical." By Thos. G. Gentry. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



" Description of a new species of Helix." B}^ Jas. Lewis, M .D. 



" On some Batvachia and Xematognatbi brought from the 

 Upper Amazon b}- Prof. Orton." By Edw. D. Cope. 



The resignotion of Mr. N. E. Macomber as a member of the 

 Academy Avas offered and accepted. 



Prof. Cope stated that the snakes of the genus Storeria, B. and 

 G., are viviparous like Eutsenia and other tropidonotine genera 

 to which they are allied. He had frequently' made this observa- 

 tion, but had not placed it on record so far as he knew. He also 

 stated tiiat the Colorado potato beetle had probably terminated in 

 its eastern migration, as it had appeared pretty well distributed 

 in Isew Jersej' the present season. 



Prof. Cope gave a synopsis of the result of his work in connec- 

 tion with Ha^'den's United States Geological Survey of the Terri- 

 tories during the season of IS'IS. He stated that the investigation 

 covered principally' the paleontology of the cretaceous, eocene, 

 miocene, and pliocene periods in Colorado. The whole number 

 of species of vertebrata obtained was one hundred and fift}', of 

 which ninety-five were at the time new to science. The cretaceous 

 species were both terrestrial and marine, and the miocene were 

 most numerous. These numbered seventy-five species, of which 

 fift3'-seven were new. They embraced, as especial additions to the 

 fauna, numerous reptiles and Mammalia of all the orders, espe- 

 cially Innecfivora, Rodentia, and Carnwora. Important additions 

 were the gigantic horned Si/mborodonn^ and numerous A'cry small 

 ruminants allied to the Tragulidse. He stated that the discovery 

 of the latter added a stronger resemblance to the miocene of 

 France than had been heretofore supposed to exist. The existence 

 of Elotherium and Anchitheriuin gave the fauna somewhat older 

 facies than that of France. 



He stated that the only genus of lizards that could be well 

 anal^-zed is the Pellomi(rus, Coj^e, and that this proves to be a 

 memi)er of the existing family of Gerrhonotidse, which is now 

 confined to Mexico and California. Hence, like man}' rodents, 

 but unlike the higher mammalia, these miocene lizards had con- 

 tinued with but little modification to the present day. 



He also discussed the age of the Bridger eocene, stating that it 

 had been orioinallv termed miocene by the geologists of King's 

 surve}^, and later lower miocene, or upper eocene, b}^ Marsh. He 

 had published it as eocene in 1872, and contended that it presented 

 features which indicate a somewhat earlier age tlian tliat of the 

 Paris basin. He said that there were numerous parallels of cor- 

 responding genera in the two ; the Mesonyx, Pa.lseosyops, JETi/ra- 

 chyus^ Achdenodon, Ilyop^odus, and Anaplomo7-pJw.s^ of the Bridger 

 formation, represented tlie Hyaenodon, Palseotlierium^ Lophiodon, 

 Anthracotherium, Hyr'acolherium, and Adapts of the Paris basin 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IIT 



respectivel3% The former was, however, entirely peculijir in its 

 Eohaailiidse^ Bathmodontidee, and Anchippodontidse^ and in its 

 almost entire want of artiodaetjles (none with crescent-bearing 

 teeth), while the French eocene possessed non-ruminating artio- 

 dactyles, with crescent-bearing teeth, in its numerous Anoplotherii- 

 dse and Hrjopotamidse. He concluded that there were good reasons 

 for reaardina: the facies as older than that of the Paris basin. 



July 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nine members present. 



Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., made the following remarks : The 

 coal-cutting machine, designed by Mr. Jas. Brown, of Brazil, Ind., 

 and photographs of which were kindly sent me by the inventor, 

 and are herewith offered for the inspection of the members, con- 

 sists of a steel or iron wheel set in a frame, connected with the 

 pneumatic engine, which runs in rails laid parallel to the face of 

 the lieading, which in this case may be several hundred yards 

 long. 



On tlie outer periphery of this wheel are arranged twenty or 

 thirt}^ triangular-shaped pieces of steel, united with it at one of 

 their apices by a pin. In the middle of the opposite side, which is 

 curved, are firmly fixed chilled-steel teetli, which set themselves 

 by friction against the coal to the proper position for cutting, as 

 the wheel is rotated to the right or left. The motion is imparted 

 by Baeans of a small-toothed wheel which moves in rackwork on 

 the under surface of the wheel. 



The machine is suitable for the soft coals of jointed structure 

 (i.e., the black coals), and is operated bj"- causing the machine to 

 revolve against the face of an exposure, and at the same time 

 draw itself forward, b\" means of a rack and pinion attachment, 

 to a middle rail. When it has undercut the coal as far as it can, 

 it is caused to move sideways along the pair of rails first men- 

 tioned until it has cut a channel an inch or two high, four and a 

 half feet deep, and as long as the breadth of the heading. The 

 blocks of coal are thus separated from the rest, except on two 

 sides, viz., the upper and the rear sides, and a skilful miner can 

 knock down with the pick huge cubical blocks, which are com- 

 paratively regular, and suffer less loss by attrition in transporta- 

 tion. 



As in all pneumatic machines the escaped air aids materially in 

 ventilating the mine. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



July 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Six members present. 



On report of the committees to whicli they had been referred, 

 the follo'wiug papers were ordered to be published: 



DESCKIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX. 

 BY JAMES LEWIS, M.D. 



Helix (Mesodon) Lawii, Lewis. 



^ex. Shell urabilicated, subglobose ; epidermis pale 



r ~~^\ corneous, thin and delicately striate ; spire but a 

 j^^^ri^ little elevated; suture quite distinctly impressed; 

 i _ whorls nearly five, the last a little expanded and 



then conspicuously contracted as it approaches the 

 peristome ; peristome white, reflected, rather nar- 

 row, scarcel}^ thickened, the margin being some- 

 what sharp ; aperture well rounded, elliptically 

 lunate, scarcely less in area than the unexpanded portion of the 

 last whorl, and scarcely modified bj' the presence of a narrow, 

 slightly curved, slightly elevated lamellar tooth on the parietal 

 wall ; umbilical region but a little impressed ; umbilicus narrow, 

 deep and scarcely contracted b}' the proximity of the reflected 

 lips ; base somewhat convex. Greater diameter 5.9, lesser 5.3, 

 alt. 3.6 mm. A smaller specimen greater diameter 5.6, lesser 

 4.9, alt. 3.5 mm. Found among roots of strawberry plants in 

 fields near Hayesville, Clay Co., N. C. Miss Annie E. Law. 

 Cabinet of Isaac Lea, LL.D., Philadelphia. 

 Cabinet of the Academy of j!^atural Sciences, Philadelphia. 

 Remarks. Under the present system of classification the above 

 described shell will, no doubt, be regarded as coming within the 

 limits of the subgenus Mesodon. Possibly a revision of sub- 

 genera might with propriety be made to set this species apart. 

 The shell is about of the size and form of helicina (Ologyra) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 119 



orbiculafa, Say, but will at once be distinguished b3-its somewhat 

 translucent aspect, its umbilicus, and the noticeable lamelliform 

 tooth on the parietal wall. Regarded as belonging in the sub- 

 genus llesodon, it will at once be recognized as the most diminutive 

 known member of the group. It is not without importance, in- 

 asmuch as it increases the list of rare species referable to Meso. 

 don heretofore found in Cherokee Co.,' N. C, a portion of which 

 territory forms what is now known as Clay County. The shell 

 can scarcely be confounded with any known species. At the re- 

 quest of Mr. Lea (who refers the shell to me for description) I 

 name the species in honor of Miss Annie E. Law, wdiose earnest 

 labors in this department of zoology merit a much higher recog- 

 nition than this. 



Helix Clarkii, Lea, Helix Wheatleyi, Bland, Helix Christyi, Bland. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON SOME BATRACHIA AND NEMATOGNATHI BROUGHT FROM THE 

 UPPER AMAZON BY PROF. ORTON. 



BY EDWARD D. COPE. 



BATRACHIA. 



URODELA. 

 Oedipus altamazonicus, ?p. nov. 



Represented hy three specimens. These are of slender form 

 with long tail and weak limbs. The digits are palmate to the tips. 

 The head is an elongate oval, and its width enters the length to 

 the o-roin more than six times. The end of the muzzle is tumid, 

 and notched in the middle ; the external nostril pierces each tumidity 

 above the lip. The vomerine teeth are in two short arches meet- 

 ing in the middle and not extending outwards bej'ond the inner 

 margin of the inner nares. Parasphenoids numerous, the patches 

 not distinguished anteriorly. Thirteen costal folds, the oppressed 

 foot and thin limbs each extending over four of them. Tail swol- 

 len at the base, a vertical oval in section. A groove along the 

 median line of the back and tail. Dermal pores numerous. Color 

 uniform dark brown. 



Total length of a small specimen .082 m. ; of head and body, 

 .040 ; of head, .007 ; width of head behind, .005 ; length of foot limb, 

 .007. Length of head and body of a larger specimen, .050. 



This is the most southern known salamander, the first disco- 

 vered south of the equator. 



From Nauta. 



AXURA. 



BUFOKIFOKJIIA. 

 Bufo agua, Dand. 

 Bufo naricus, Spix. 



Bufo margaritifer, Laur. Otilophus Cur. 

 Bufo granulosus, Spix. 

 From the Maranon. 



Arcifera. 

 Phyllomedusa scleroderma, Cope. Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci.,Phila., 1868, p. 112. 



From Xauta. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Pithecopus tarsius, Cope, loc. cit., p. 113. 



Kauta. 

 Pithecopus ccElestis, sp. nov. 



General appearance and size much as in Phyllomedusa hicolor^ 

 but there is no trace of parotid gland or line of cr^'pts. The 

 pigment of the upper surfaces extends on the humerus and the 

 outer two toes of both limbs. "Vomerine teeth present. Palpebrte 

 not reticulate ; no dermal processes. Tympanum a vertical oval 

 .3 to .25 of the diameter of the eye. Muzzle short, obliquely trun- 

 cate to lip. It is reached by tlie elbow of the extended fore limb ; 

 the heel only reaches the front of the orbit. First finger oppos- 

 able ; first toe longer than second ; third with very small dilata- 

 tion. Superior surfaces blue, sides yellow, with vertical purple 

 bars. Concealed surfaces light maroon, with yellow spots ; on the 

 posterior face of the femur in two series. Belly and throat sea- 

 green, unspotted. Lower lip yellow bordered ; upper lip without 

 markings. Upper e^yelids yellow bordered. 



Skin smooth above, sides coarsely, belly finely areolate. Fore- 

 arm and outer toe with a narrow yellow line on the outer margin. 

 A similar one above vent. Length of head and bod^^, .057 ; of 

 head to angle of jaws, .016 ; width of head at angle of jaws, .020 ; 

 length of fore limb, .040 ; of hind limb, .080; of hind foot, .036 ; 

 of tarsus, .020. 



From Moyabamba, Peru. 



Pithecopus tomopternus, Cope, loc. cit., p. 112. 

 Abundant at Nauta. 



Hypsiboas punctatus, Daudin, Dum. Bibr., viii. 552. 



Nauta. 

 Hypsiboas crepitans, Wied. Beitr. Naturg. Braz., i. 525. 

 From Nauta. 



Hypsiboas spectrum, Reinhot. et Liitk. Viden. Medd. Nat. Forening Kjobenhavn, 

 1861, p. 195. 



Yery nearly allied to, if not identical with this species. From 

 Nauta. 



Centrotelma geographicum, Spix, Cope, Journ Acad., Phila., 1867, 205. 



From Nauta. 

 Hyla marmorata, Daudin, Cope, Proceed. Academy, Phila., 1868, p. 111. 



Nauta. 

 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hyla leucophyllata, Beireis ; vars. tyjHca et triangulum, Gthr. 



Nauta. 

 Osteocephalus planiceps, sp. nov. 



A rather slender species, "with long limbs, and the general pro- 

 portions of the species of Hyjjsiboas. Head broad and plane on 

 the upper surface to the straight and rectangular canthus rostralis. 

 Loreal region nearlj' vertical. The fronto-parietal bones are ossi- 

 fied, and the nasals meet on the middle line ; their superior surface 

 is rugose with ossific deposit, which in some cases assumes the 

 form of radiating ridges, but nowhere penetrates the free derm. 

 The lateral margins of the fronto-parietals are indicated by deli- 

 cate angular ridges incurred posteriori}-. The vomerine teeth 

 form two curved transverse series between the posterior portions 

 of the inner nares, the angle forwards the outer limb a little longer. 

 Choanffi very large, ostia pharyngea half the size. Tongue oval, 

 bound behind. Eye large with transparent palpebra, its diameter 

 equal to the space between it and the nostril, one-fourth greater 

 than that of the large membranum t^'mpani, and one-fourth less 

 than the frontal width. Belly and sides coarsely areolate, back 

 minutely tubercular. A short tubercular fold from orbit to behind 

 scapula. Fingers free ; toes webbed to the base of the penul- 

 timate phalange of the fourth digit ; first (least) toe webbed to 

 disk. The heel of the extended hind limb extends beyond the ^ 

 muzzle by the diameter of the tympanum. No dermal fringes or 

 processes. 



Color above uniform dark brown, concealed surfaces of limbs 

 similar and without any markings. Sides a little varied with the 

 white of the belt. A light border to the upper lip, and lighter 

 line from the orbit to the angle of the mouth ; dermal scapular 

 fold pale edged. Femur and tibia with dark crossbands on the 

 exposed surfaces. 



M. 



Length of head and body 060 



" " (axial) to angle of mandible . . . .017 



Width " at " " ... .019 



Length of muzzle from orbit 009 



" of fore limb 037 



" of hand 016 



" of hind limb 093 



" of foot 037 



" of tarsus 019 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



This is the fourth species of the genus Osteocephalus, Fitz, and 

 differs from those previously known in the absence of palmation 

 of the fingers, weaker cranial crests, straight canthus rostralis, etc. 



From Nauta. 



Scytopis funereus, sp. nov. 



Vomerine teeth in short fascienti between the choan?e. Fingers 

 free. Head oval, muzzle narrowed; eyes small, diameter equal 

 length to muzzle and less than frontal width, twice diameter of 

 tympanic membrane. Hind limbs long, the heel extending to con- 

 siderably beyond the end of the muzzle. First (inner) toe nearly 

 free; longest webbed to base of penultimate phalange. Areola- 

 tion of belly fine, back with a very few scattered elevations. Dark 

 brown or blackish with a broad black cross-band between the eyes 

 and several across arm, femur, tibia, and tarsus. Femora uniform 

 behind ; a few black spots on the posterior part of the side. 

 Throat and breast black punctated. 



M. 



Length of head to angle of lower jaw 013 



" of head at angle of lower jaw 015 



" to vent 044 



Width of sacrum. 008 



Length of hind leg 073 



" " foot 030 



" " taraus 013 



Distinguished from other species of the genus by its long lec;?^. 



From Mo3'abaraba, Peru. 

 Scytopis allenii, Cope, Proceed. Amer. Philos. Soc. 1869, p. 162. 



From Nauta and Moyabamba. , 



Scytopis cryptanthus, sp. nov. 



Allied to the last species, but with non-elongate flat head, and 

 different coloration. The head is a long oval, and the diameter of 

 the e^'e is only three-fifths the length from its border to the ex- 

 ternal nostril, about .15 the interorbital width, and one and one- 

 half times that of the membranum tympani. Vomerine teeth 

 between nares. The heel of the extended hind limb marks the 

 half the distance from orbit to end of muzzle. Fino-ers and first 

 toe free. Uniform dark brown above, sides and gular region brown 

 speckled. Groin and concealed surfaces of hind limbs black, with 

 brillant yellow spots, three on the under side of the tibia, two on 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the posterior face of the femur, and one large confluent one on the 

 front of femur and groin, which is on the former notched above by 

 two or three blaclc spots. 



M. 



Length of head and body 044 



" of head to angle of jaws 015 



Width " above angle of jaws 015 



Length of hind limb 070 



" "foot 030 



" " tarsus 013 



From Nauta. 



The species of this genus ma}^ be divided as follows : 



Fingers webbed. 8. venulosus. 



Fingers free. 8. aurantiacus. 



Heel extending to beyond muzzle. 8. funereus. 



Heel not reaching end of muzzle. 

 Skin smooth above. 8. allenii. 



8. xsignatus. 



8. cryptanthus. 

 Skin arrolate above. 8. ruber. 



8. acuminatus. 

 Scy topis amantiacus, Daudin. 



Nauta. 

 Nototrema marsupiatum, Derm. Bibr. Evp. Gen. viii. 598. 



Nauta; in two specimens, the ethmoid is uuossified above, while 

 there is no fronto-parietal fontanelle. 



Family CYSTIGNATHIDJE. 

 Subfamily Cystignathi. 



Bubonias plicifrons, gen. et sp. nov. 



Fronto-parietal bones fully ossiQed, nasals separated. Xiphis- 

 ternum, an osseous stjle with disk. Auditory organs well de- 

 veloped. A large gland in the inguinal region ; no tarsal shovels 

 nor spurs. Maxillary, but no vomerine teeth. Form, toad-like. 



This genus it is evident presents characters of Liujperus in 

 dentition, Pleurodema in glands and feet, and Cystignathus in 

 cranial structure. 



Char. Bjiecif. Head narrow, with elevated lores. Membranum 

 t^'mpani oval, its long axis directed upwards and forwards, and 

 nearly equal in length to that of the eye. The latter equals the 

 length from its border to the end of the (osseous) muzzle. Skin 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 125 



everywhere smooth except in the following regions of the upper 

 surface. A strong elevated fold from the superciliar}- border to 

 the inguinal gland, below which on the scapular region is a boss 

 like a parotid gland : A fold from the inner border of the eyelid 

 to the end of the sacral diapophysis ; a fold frona the end of the 

 muzzle to the end of the cocc3^x on the median line. A short 

 conic tubercle stands at its extremity on the muzzle. Edge of the 

 eyebrow with three dermal processes or " horns." There is a ridge 

 extending along the inner border of the large choanae which sup- 

 ports no teeth. Tongue a long oval, notched posteriorl3\ The 

 middle of the forearm marks the end of the muzzle, and the heel, 

 the tympanum. Digits all entirely free. 



Color above brown; below pure white; sides pure black, the 

 color extending on the sides of the abdomen and then passing 

 round in front of the femora, thus inclosing an anchor-shaped 

 space of white. A black spot on the posterior part of the inguinal 

 gland ; femora behind with a black band from one popliteal region 

 to the other. From this, black bands extend to the end of the 

 coccyx, one across the femur above, and a broad one across the 

 femur below, near the knee. Tibia below black, with a j'ellow 

 cross-band. Limbs above brown; forelegs black and white spotted 

 below. 



M. 



Length of head and body 038 



" " to angles of mandible 012 



Width " at " " 013 



Length of fore limb 021 



" ofhindHmb 045 



" of hind foot 022 



" of tarsus 008 



Two specimens from Nauta. 



The dermal plicae though strong are easily lost by stretching. 

 Cyclorhamphus aemaricus, ?p. nov. 



Form like Scaphiopus. The tympanic membrane wanting and 

 the tympanic chamber occupied by muscle. Ostia pharyngea 

 minute ; their depth not ascertained. Vomerine fasciculi minute, 

 and between the small choanre. Tongue round, extensively free. 

 Labial integument largely free and overhanging the lower jaw. 

 Xiphisternum broad, emarginate base osseous. Limbs short, the 

 heel reaches about to the angle of the mouth. Fingers free, toes 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



half palmate ; a free border on the inner side of the tarsus, and 

 outer side of outer toe. Skin smooth except a few small tubercles 

 on the occipital region. In the male there are numerous small 

 horny points on the breast, and a lai'ge horn^' plate on each thumb, 

 whose surface is roughened with crowded projecting points. 



Color olive-brown above, lighter brown below ; one specimen 

 has a few scattered yellow spots above. 



M. 



Length of head and body 048 



" of head to angle of mandible 012 



Width " at " " 018 



" " interorbital 004 



Length of fore limb . 025 



" of hind limb 008 



" of hind foot 032 



" of tarsus 012 



Two specimens from lake Titicaca. 



This species has a much less depressed head than the C. ma?-- 

 morafus, and probably a less developed auditory apparatus, and 

 vomerine tooth series. The coloration is entirelj^ different. The 

 C. fasciatus^ Peters, is equallj^ distinct, judging from the descrip- 

 tion. 



Hylodes sulcatus, sp. nov. 



Distinguished for its very wide head and rugose skin. The 

 form is stout, but the hind limbs rather elongate. The maxillary 

 borders are so expanded as to give the tympanic disks a partly 

 vertical exposure. These are vertically oval, the diameter a little 

 less than that of the orbit. The latter is a little less than the 

 length to the anterior nares. Choanoe large, but little larger than 

 the ostia pharyngea. Vomerine teeth in two short curved series 

 entirely behind the choanse, and not extending outwards beyond 

 their middle ; they approach nearly inwards. Tongue round, entire, 

 one-third free. Fingers very short without expansions. Heel of 

 extended hind limb to nares ; exjiansions of hind toes well marked, 

 with T-shaped phalanges. A peculiarity of the species is seen in 

 the strong ridge that extends along the superciliary border to the 

 posterior border of the cranium, inclosing a groove with its fellow. 

 Skin below areolate on the belly ; above with numerous short, 

 generally symmetrical folds, two of which cross the suprascapular 

 region, two on the sides, two on each side the back, etc. The 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



127 



sides of the head from the orbit to the angle of the jaws is covered 

 with closely placed tubercles giving a rugose surface. 



Color, deep brown above, white below. Limbs crossbarred with 

 brown; femora pale, marbled behind. Lips without light border ; 

 a pale spot below the interval between orbit and tympanum. 



Length of head and body 



" of head to angle of jaws 



Width of head at angle of jaws 

 " of head at interorbital . 



Length of fore Ihnb 

 " of hind limb 

 " of foot . . 



" of tarsus 



M. 



.047 

 .016 



Mri 

 .004 

 .024 

 .075 

 .034 

 .014 



From Nauta. 

 Peters. 



Evidently allied to the Strabomantis biporcatus, 



Lithodytes conspicillatus, Gthr. Batrach, Brit. Mus , 92, Var. 



" Santarem, Brazil, No. 141." 

 Plectomantis rhodostima, sp. nov. 



General form ranoid, with oval head and full and truncate muz- 

 zle. The head of the extended hind limb reaches to the posterior 

 border of the orbit. T3'mpanum .66 the size of the eye, which 

 equals in terorbital width and length to nostril. Vomerine teeth, 

 in two short curved series, on a transverse line behind the nares, 

 and extending upwards as far as tlieir inner border. Their size 

 a little exceeds that of the ostia pharyngea. Tongue elongate 

 oval, largely free. Skin smooth above and below. Toes before 

 and behind, with well-marked dilatations, and without dermal 

 margins. Color, above uniform brown, below whitish ; muzzle 

 blackish to the orbits ; femora dark-brown behind. A rose-colored 

 spot in the groin, one on the superior face of the femur, two on 

 the inferior face of the tibia, and one on the superior face of the 

 tarsus. 



M. 



Length of head aud body 045 



" of head to angle of jaws 

 Width of head at angle of jaws 



' ' of head between orbits 

 Length of fore limb . 



" of hind limb 



" of hind foot . 



" of tarsus 



.014 

 .015 

 .004 

 .026 

 .OoO 

 .029 

 .012 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



One specimen from Nauta. 



This species has tlie cranial structure and xipliisternal style oi 

 Cystignathus, but the T-shaped pliahmges and disks of Hylodes. 

 The riectromantis ivagneri, Peters, I have examined in Munich, 

 and find it to be closely allied to Cystigiiathus, so far as external 

 appearances are concerned, but further than this I could not ex- 

 amine. It, however, has digital dilatations, and I refer the present 

 species, provisionally, to the same genus, suspecting that such 

 course will be warranted by a fuller investigation of the type spe- 

 cimen. As here defined, it bears the same relation to Cystignathus 

 that Hy lor an a does to Ban a. 



Cystignathus hallowellii, Cope, Proceed. Acndemy, Philada., 1868, 115. Hylodes 

 Italloivellii, Cope, 1. c, 18fi2, p. 153. 



A variet}' from between Balso Puerto and Moyabamba, Peru. 



Gnathophysa ocellata, Linne; Seba, pi. 75, fig. 1. Cystignathus labyrinlliiciis, 

 Dum. Bibr. Castelnan. Pletirodema labyrinthica , Gthr. 



From Nauta. 

 Gnathophysa rubido, sp. nov. 



A much smaller species than the preceding, represented by two 

 males and a female, the former with the nuptial spurs largely de- 

 veloped. The metacarpus of the pollex terminates in one, and 

 the second projects from the metacarpus of the second digit. 

 There is one with three mucrones on each side of the breast. The 

 general form is stout. The toes are without free dermal margins, 

 and the smooth abdominal derm has the discoidal fold. The 

 vomerine teeth form two short transverse open arches behind the 

 nares, not extending outwards beyond, opposite the centres of the 

 latter. There is a dorsolateral fold from' the orbit to near the 

 groin, and another, commencing just below it, extends to the mid- 

 dle of the side, and sends- a short branch down behind the mem- 

 branum tympani. Dorsal surface smooth, pustular between the 

 ilia; tibia pustular above. The head is a wide oval, with a short 

 decurved muzzle, and large eyes. The diameter of the latter ex- 

 ceeds the length to the outer nares, and is nearl}' twice that of the 

 tj'mpanic membrane. Tongue elongate oval, faintly- notched, 

 choanre and ostia near the same size. The heel of the extended 

 hind limb falls short of the orbit. The lateral glandular mass ex- 

 tends from near the axilla to the groin and occupies the width of 

 the side. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



129 



Color, above reddish to brown, in one specimen bright-red; 

 femora black behind, faintly pale-marbled ; front of femur black, 

 a few black spots in the groin. Entire hind limb black, cross- 

 barred. A narrow black bar from nostril to tympanum ; upper 

 lip broadl}' black-bordered. Inferior surfaces dark-brown, with 

 numerous pale dots, which may be wanting on the gular region, 

 and inosculate on the femur. 



Length of head and body 



" of head to angle of jaws 



Width of head at angle of jaws 

 " of head between orbits . 



Length of fore limb . 



of hind limb 

 of hind foot . 

 of tarsus 



M. 



.066 

 .019 

 .026 

 .006 

 .035 

 .081 

 .040 

 .016 



From Moyabamba, Peru. 

 Dendrobates trivittatus, Spix (?). 



This species agrees with the figure given bj^ Spix, and differs 

 from the description by Giinther, of the D. tincforiiis, to which 

 the latter author refers it as a synonym. Thus the dorsal derm 

 is closel}' areolate, and the ventral smooth, and the first finger is 

 longer than the second. There are three longitudinal yellow 

 bands, the outer springing from the orbits, the median from 

 betw^een them. The lateral extend to the knee, while another 

 band extends from the lips below the orbit to the middle of the 

 humerus. A yellow horse-shoe on the end of the muzzle; below 

 black, with yellow spots on the limbs only. Femur with few spots 

 behind. 



From between Balso Puerto and Mo^'abamba, Peru. 



Dendrobates labialis, sp. nov. 



Skin minutely areolate on the upper surfaces, smooth below. 

 Muzzle flat, moderately elongate, and broadly truncate. Tympa- 

 num one-fifth size of eye, which equals length of muzzle and 

 interorbital width. The muzzle marks the end of the forearm, 

 and the posterior edge of the orbit the heel. First finger longer 

 than the second. The upper surfaces are colored by some pig- 

 ment, whose distinctive character has been lost in the alcohol. 

 Upper lip pale banded, the band extending through the axilla, 




130 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and meeting its fellow at the j^ubis. 

 upper surfaces. 



No spots or bands on the 



Dendrobates speciosus, Schmidt, Denkschr. Acad. AViss. Wien, 1858, p. 249. 



From 

 Atelopus seminiferus, sp. nov. 



Body elongate, limbs rather short ; the muzzle nearly reaching 

 the middle of the extended forearm, and the heel marking the 

 scapula. The muzzle viewed from above is rounded, truncate, 

 and in profile somewhat prominent; the nostril marking a line 

 which falls behind the sj^mphysis of the mandible. The eyelid is 

 thickened, and is not prominent; and the diameter of the eye 

 equals the length of the muzzle and the posterior interorbital 

 width. The ethmoid appears to be ossified to the end of the 

 muzzle. Fingers slightly, toes largely webbed, the web reaching 

 the end of the first phalange of the fourth (long) toe. Tongue 

 narrow, extensively free ; ostia pharyngea smaller than the small 

 choanse. Skin smooth except on the sides, where there are 

 numerous closel3'-placed minute tubercles from the head to the 

 groin. A broad fold of skin extending from the side to the middle 

 of the length of the femur. 



Above, dark-brown ; below, brownish-oraiige. Sides black from 

 head to groin; each tubercle of the skin yellow, resembling yellow 

 grains. Limbs uniform black. 



Length of head and body 



" of head to angle of jaws 



Width of head at angle of jaws 



Length of fore limbs 

 " of hind limbs 

 " of hind foot . . 



M. 

 .040 

 .009 

 .009 

 .026 

 .045 

 .021 



" of tarsus 007 



From between Balsa Puerto and Moyabamba, Peru. 

 This species has a much shorter muzzle and limbs than the A. 

 S2nimarius (Proceed. Acad. Philada., 1811, p. 222); from Pebas. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 



131 



Colostethus latinosus, Cope (?), Proceed. Academy, Philada., 1866, 130, and 1863, 

 48. Colors not presented ; identification not final. 



Uetvveen Balsa Puerto and Moj'abamba. 



RANIFORMIA. 



Ranula brevipalmata, sp. nov. 



Nearl}' allied to the B. affinis, but with the web of the posterior 

 digits only reaching the bases of the ultimate, or in the fourth 

 toe, the penultimate phalange. The membranum tympani is as 

 large as the eye (not orbit) ; and the nostril is near the end of 

 the muzzle. The extended hind limb brings the heel to the ante- 

 rior border of the orbit, instead of the end of the muzzle, as in 

 Pi, affinis. General color, olive ; below, white. Femora and 

 tibige marbled, with black behind. 



M. 



Length of head and body ' . . .049 



" of head to angle of jaws 

 "Width of bead at angle of jaws 



" of bead between orbits 

 Length of fore limb 



" of hind limb 



" of hind foot 



" of tarsus 



,020 

 .019 

 .00.} 

 .027 

 .074 

 .034 

 .012 



From Nauta. 

 Ranula nigrilatus, sp. nov. 



Toes fully palmate to ends of last phalanges, or base of same 

 on the fourth digit. Heel of extended hind limb reaching anterior 

 border of orbit. Ej'e one and a half times the diameter of the 

 tj'mpanum, and equal to the length of the lores to the nostril. 

 Muzzle truncate in marking the middle of the metacarpi of pro- 

 file ; flat above the extended fore limb. First and second fingers 

 equal ; a tarsal dermal fold. Skin smooth. 



Color, dark-brown ; sides black ; lower surfaces closelj' mar- 

 bled with dark-brown. Femora and tibite black, marbled behind. 



Length of head and body 



" of bead to angle of jaws 

 Width of bead to angle of jaws 

 Length of fore hmb 



" of bind limb 



" of bind foot 



" of tarsus 



M. 



.048 

 .018 

 .018 

 .025 

 .070 

 .034 

 .012 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This species has the palmation of R. affinis^ and the short legs 

 of R. hrempalmata ; the tympanum is smaller than in either. 

 The head is longer and the femur shorter than in the latter. The 

 coloration is notably distinct. In neither of these species do I 

 find the dorsolateral dermal fold of the R. affinis, though this may 

 be due to the rather soft state of the specimens. 



From Nauta. 



NEMATOGNATHI. 



Trichomycterus pardus, sp. nov. 



Origin of dorsal fin but little behind a point above that of the 

 ventrals. Radii, D. 8 ; A. 6 ; V. 5 ; A. 12; truncate. Head flat, 

 enterinsf the length without caudal fin 4.8 times. Diameter of 

 orbit one-sixth length of head, and one-half interorbital breadth. 

 Nareal beard extending backwards beyond eye, and the maxillary 

 to the border of the suboperculum. Preopercular and opercular 

 patches full. Color above yellowish-brown, with three rows of 

 dark-brown spots on the sides. ' Fins and lower surfaces pale and 

 unspotted. Total length, .073; caudal fin, .011; head, .010; 

 depth at dorsal fin, .011. 



This is one of the few species of the genus where the dorsahfin 

 is nearly immediately above the ventrals. 



From 



Trichomycterus rivulatus, Cud., vol. xviii. 495. 



From Arequipa, Peru. 

 Bunocephalus melas, sp. nov. 



Radial formula: D. 5 ; P. I. 5 ; Y. 6 ; A. 7 ; C. 10. Head and 

 shield are elongate oval, without prominent ridges or marginal 

 angles. The anterior humeral tuberosity marks one-third the 

 length to the middle of the shield at the basis of the dorsal ra3^ 

 The width in front of the pectoral spine is a little less than .25 of 

 the total length (including caudal fin) ; the length of the post- 

 coracoid process is equal to nearl}^ two-thirds of the interspace 

 between them. The maxillary barbel extends to the end of the 

 basal third of the pectoral spine; the latter oppressed, reaches the 

 base of the ventral fins. Tail at anal fin wider than deep ; com- 

 pressed near the base of the caudal fin. Four rows of wartlets 

 on the sides, one of them on the lateral angle of the tail. Dorsal 

 fin nearer the end of the muzzle than the base of the caudal fin by 

 two-thirds the length of its base. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Color black, darkest on the skies ; head speckled with paler. 

 Total length .072; to caudal fin, .059; to dorsal fin, .028; to 

 dorsal shield, .025 ; to line of anterior humeral tuberosity', .008 ; 

 to orbit, .003. 



From Nauta. The dorsal fin is apparently more posterior than 

 in B. gronomi, and there are fewer anal rays than in B. aleiii'opsis. 



Dysiclithys coracoideus, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. In general similar to Bunocephalus, but there are 

 no mandibular nor mental barbels. The head is depressed, but 

 deeper than the narrow tail. 



Char: Specif. Radial formula, D. 5 ; A. T ; C. 10 ; Y. 6 ; P. I. 

 4. Dorsal fin bound to the back behind by its membrane, the 

 base of its first ray a little nearer the end of the muzzle than the 

 basis of the caudal fin. The head and neck shield is diamond- 

 shaped, with truncate angles, and the humeral angles mark the 

 middle of its length instead of an anterior point, as in Bunoce- 

 pha.lus nelas. The anterior humeral tuberosity marks one-third 

 the length from the end of the muzzle to the second dorsal ray, 

 measured axially. The shield is peculiar for its strong ridges 

 and scalloped borders. A bigh heel, with three prominences, 

 divides it behind, while the scutum supports another. The poste- 

 rior border presents two angles, and there is a ridge across behind 

 the orbits. A ridge from each orbit meets its fellow, forming a V 

 at the occiput, and a ridge from the humeral process meets its 

 fellow behind this point. The postcoracoids are longer than in 

 B. melas., their length equalling the width between them. The 

 pectoral spines extend bej^ond the base of the dentrals. The 

 maxillary barbels extend to the base of the pectoral spines. The 

 tail is quadrangular with a line of evantlets along the lateral 

 angle. Belly, tail, and fins, black ; throat and belly white speckled. 

 Shield brown, with some paler specks. Total length, .055 ; do. to 

 caudal fin, .046; do. to dorsal, .021 ; do. to dorsal scutum, .018; 

 do. to humeral tuberosity, .010 ; do. to orbit, .003. 



Several specimens from Nauta. 



Zathorax nauticus, sp. nov. 



Coracoid portion of the scapular arch only ossified so as to 

 occupy the derm. Postcoracoid narrow, not excavated. A dis- 

 tinct adipose fin. Prefrontal bone acutely pectinate on its upper 

 face. Head (to end of casque) one-third length to middle of caudal 




134 PROOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fin. Orbit one-third length of head (to gill opening), and nearly 

 equal interorbital width. Mandibular barbel to end of postcora- 

 coid process ; maxillary to end of pectoral spine. Width of 

 casque greater than the interorbital. Radii D. L. 6 ; A. 12 ; V. 

 1 ; P. I. 4. Dorsal spine grooved, not dentate ; pectoral spine 

 strongly toothed extending be^'ond basis of ventral fin. Post- 

 clavicle with recurved teeth ; caudal fin truncate. Lateral shields 

 26 low, leaving a broad naked band above and below them ; with 

 a single strong median curved spine. Color brown above, with 

 a j-ellow band along the middle of the side border red with black 

 above and below. Belly white ; below the pectoral fin purple. 

 Caudal fin with some vertical dark bars. Total length, .082 ; do. 

 to first anal ray, .045 ; do. to end of postcoracoid, .026 ; do. to 

 base of dorsal fin, .026 ; do. to gill opening, .016 ; do. to orbit, .004. 

 From Nauta. The less exposure of the scapular arch below, 

 simple postcoracoid, etc., distinguish this fish from the Z. moni- 

 tor^ m. According to the description of Dr. Giinther the Boras 

 asterifrons pertains to the genus Zathorax. 



RMnodoras niger, Valenciennes ; Gthv. v. 209. 

 Nauta. 

 One of the specimens is twenty-five inches in length. 



Rhinodoras prianomus, sp. nov. 



Head long, extending (measured to the end of the opercular 

 flap) the length of the short body to the origin of the npper and 

 lower caudal radii, 2.5 times. The eye is one-seventh the length 

 of the head, and is equidistant between the end of the muzzle and 

 the edge of the operculum, and is half the interorbital width. 

 Lateral scuta 22 ; the first and last with rudimental spine ; that 

 of the others strong and curved, the upper edge of the scutum 

 with two or three prickles. The scuta leave a wide naked space 

 above and below them. Radii, D. I. 6; A. 10; V. 7; P. I. 10. 

 Dorsal and pectoral spines serrate to the base on their anterior 

 edges; postclavicle with a longitudinal angle, which supports a 

 series of processes and spines. Head and casque rugose above. 

 Maxillary barbels reach to bej^ond eye ; the outer mentals are 

 .66 as long. Color brown, paler below, with numerous vertical 

 dark brown spots on the sides. All the rayed fins, and the back 

 at the base of the adipose, black. Head above and at sides gray 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 135 



with unmevous large brown spots. Length to base of caudal fin 

 (marginal) m. .12 ; to base of dorsal, .Ot. 



From Nauta. 



One of the specimens from Nauta measures twenty-five inches. 



Corydoras ambiacus, Cope, Proceed. Acad. Phila., 1872, p. 280. 

 From Nauta. 



Corydoras armatus, Calichthys armahis. Glinth. Proceed. Zool. Soc. Lend., 1868, 

 p. 231. 



Oallichthys asper, Quoy. Gaim. 



Nauta. 

 Hoplosternum longifilis, Cuv. Val., Glinther, v. p. 228. 



Nauta. 



Hypoptoporna bilobatum, Cope, Proceed. Amer. Philoso. Soc, 187. 

 Loricaria cataphracta, L. Glinther, v. p. 255. 

 From the Marafion. 



Loricaria rostrata, Spi.\-, Glinther, v. 256. 

 Liposarcus jeanesianus, sp. nov. 



This large and handsome species is allied to the L. pardalis^ 

 Cast, and L. varius, Cope, but presents a number of peculiar fea- 

 tures. It is elongate and depressed, the head moderately so only. 

 The head enters the total length (with caudal) 5.75 times ; while 

 the greatest depth (in front of the dorsal fin) enters it eight times, 

 the head being measured to the superior end of the branchial fis- 

 sure. There is an obtuse canthus rostralis from the orbit to the 

 nares, there is a strong nuchal angle (not a crest), and a low one 

 corresponding to the outer border of the epiotic bone. The two 

 nuchal scuta have two very low ridges each. The orbit is small, 

 entering the length of the snout 6.5 times, and the interorbital 

 width 3.25 times. The sculpture of the upper surfaces of the head 

 consists of numerous close grooves forming various patterns. 

 Two or three small spines on the intei'operculum. Beard reach- 

 ing the line of the front margin of the e^'C. Inferior surfaces to 

 anal fin entirely granular. Scuta of the body in twenty-eight 

 transverse and (at the dorsal fin) four longitudinal series. They 

 have a low serrate keel wh'ich ends in a point. Six scuta between 

 dorsal fins and fourteen between anal caudal. Radii D. II. 12; 

 C. I. 14, I; A. I. 4 ; Y. I. 5 ; P. I. 6. Base of the dorsal enters 

 total length 3.5 times, and equals the length of the head and nape 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in front of it, exceeding the length of the pectoral spines by two 

 iuterradial spaces. 



Color olivaceous above with numerous black spots, which inos- 

 culate on the dorsal jegion ; below lighter with numerous closely 

 placed black spots. Fins clouded. Head very closely radiate, 

 banded and spotted. 



Total length .400 m. (15.75 inches) ; length to bases of caudal, 

 .305 ; do. to anal, .200 ; do. to ventral, .140 ; do. to pectoral, .060 ; 

 do. to edge of inferior lip, .034 ; do. to superior teeth, .011. Length 

 of first dorsal spine, .0*11 ; humeral width, .077. 



Two specimens from Nauta, Peru. Dedicated to Joseph Jeanes, 

 of Philadelphia, one of the most liberal patrons of students of 

 the Natural Sciences in the United States. 



Liposarcus scrophus, sp. nov. 



Size of the last species but much more robust and rough in 

 character. The dorsal outlines arched, rising abruptly in a strong 

 crest on the posterior cephalic scutum, and maintained bj^ the 

 rough lateral keels of the nuchal plates. The head enters the 

 total length 4.25 times, and the greatest depth the same, five 

 times. An obtuse ridge to nares and a low swelling on the upper 

 part of the pterotic shield. There is an angular tuberosity on the 

 upper posterior part of the orbit, and a low ridge on the inner 

 side of each of the nares. Barbel only extending to line of interior 

 nostril. Several strong spines on the interoperculum. Diameter 

 entering length of side of muzzle four times, and three and a 

 quarter times the interorbital width. Sculpture of the upper sur- 

 faces of the head consisting of lines of minute acute tubercles, 

 which are nearly obsolete on the interorbital. 



Lower surfaces everywhere rugose. Scuta in twenty-seven 

 transverse, and four longitudinal series, all rugose with lines of 

 points and each with an elevated keel-brush of small spines. The 

 upper and lower series of lateral scuta are strongly angulate, and 

 the sides are swollen from opposite the base of the dorsal fin. 

 Five scuta between the dorsal fins and thirteen between the anal 

 and caudal fins. Radii of tins ; D. II. 12 ; C. I. 14, I ; A. I. 4 ; Y. 

 I. 5 ; P. I. C. Dorsal fin longer than high, entering total length 

 3.5 times and a little less than length in front of its first spine. 

 Length of latter equal length of head to end of interoperculum. 

 Pectoral fin stout, shorter than basis of dorsal fin by three inter- 

 spaces. The lower caudal lobe is, as in L. jeaiiesianus consider- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13Y 



Two specimens from Nauta. 

 Plecostomus virescens, sp. nov. 



Head wide, depressed, muzzle moderately elongate; bod}^ and 

 tail rather elongate. There is a very obtuse occipital and nuchal 

 elevation, while the post and preorbital angles are well marked. 

 A few preopercular spines. Head below naked behind the mouth. 

 Teeth numerous, acutel}' incurved. Posterior lip entire, smooth ; 

 beard sliorter than diameter of orbit. The latter is one-fourth the 

 length of the head, and one-half the flat interorbital space. Length 

 of head 4.25 times in the total minus caudal fin. Radii D. I. 7, I; 

 C. I. 14, I; A. 5 ; V. I. 4 ; P. I. 6. Basis of dorsal equal space 

 between it and second dorsal plus one scutum, and equal the length 

 in front of it to tlie middle of the interorbital region. Pectoral 

 spine reaching a little bej'ond base of ventral. Scuta 26 4, with- 

 out keels but with numerous rugose ridges. 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



August 4. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Six members present. 



Dimorphisvi in the Leaves of Acer Pennsylvanicinn., Lin. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited some branches of Acer Pennsyl- 

 vanicnra, Lin. (A. striatum, Lamb), which had a remarkable sys- 

 tem of dimorphic foliage, and which he believed had been gener- 

 ally overlooked. 



The first pair of leaves developed after the bursting of the bud 

 in the spring, were larger and more perfectly developed than any 

 subsequent ones. In his specimens thej' were about six inches 

 long and five wide, and stronglj^ three-lobed towards the apex. 

 The next pair, however, were usually lance linear, in the specimens 

 exhibited about five inches long and less than two wide. Occa- 

 sionally there was a tendency to the pi'oduction of a pair of lobes, 

 but usually the margins were entire or sparsel}^ serulated. The 

 third and subsequent pairs of leaves partook of the form of the first 

 pair, though seldom so large. He had examined sevei'al hundred 

 of young ti'ees, and all had this singular dimorphic condition, the 

 second pair in all cases having this peculiar narrow form. 



It was worthy of remark that in plants with alternate leaves, the 

 leaves with their axial buds were generally about the same size. 

 In some few instances there were variations in the size, especially 

 in the one-third arrangement of the leaves on the stem. In oppo- 

 site leaved plants the rule was the other way ; one bud or one leaf, 

 either in the blade or petiole, being larger or longer than the other. 

 In the maples this was especially the case. At times the petioles 

 in some cases would be not more than half the length opposite. He 

 had found this especial peculiarity, however, in no other species 

 but A. Pennsylxianicum that he had been able to examine, which 

 included most in common cultivation. It might be in A. spicatum, 

 Lam., which he had not been able to examine this season, and 

 which he supposed to be but a variety of A. Pennsylvanicum. 



August 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seven members present. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



August 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



August 25. 

 -The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



On Pectinatella magnijica. Prof. Leidy exhibited a living 

 specimen of the fresh-water ciliated polyp, formerly described by 

 him under the name of Pectinatella magnifica. It was obtained 

 by him this morning from the mill-pond at Kirkwood, N. J., on 

 the Camden and Atlantic R. R. The specimen, about four inches 

 square and three inches thick, is a fragment of a large colony, 

 which enveloped the submerged trunk of a tree. The entire 

 colony was estimated to be about six feet long, and from six to 

 twelve inches in diameter, including that of the tree trunk, which 

 was about four inches. Several branches of the tree were also 

 invested with extensions of the colony from six inches to a foot 

 in length. Pectinatella is by far the largest of all the known 

 fresh-water ciliated polj-ps, and, indeed, is not surpassed b}^ any 

 of the marine forms known to us. It has not been determined 

 whether the huge Pectinatella colonies start each from a single 

 individual, or are the result of the confluence of a number of 

 small colonies. On the approach of winter the colonies die and 

 undergo decomposition, in which process the remarkable winter 

 eggs or statoblasts are liberated. These are provided with 

 anchor-like spines, by which, as in the case of the eggs of skates 

 and sharks, they become attached to various fixed bodies. 



On a Pay^asitic Woy^m of the House-fly. Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that since it had become well known that manj^ parasitic worms 

 passed different stages of development within several different 

 animals, he had from time to time sought for the sources from 

 whence the more common thread worms obtained entrance into 

 the human body, but thus far without success. The Trichina 

 spiralis, discovered in man in 1833 by Mr. Hilton, and described 

 and named by Prof. Owen in 1835, was first found in the hog by 

 Prof Leidy in 1846 (See Proc. A. N. S., iii. 108), but it was not 

 until some years subsequently that it was determined that man 

 and the hog acted reciprocally as hosts for the Trichina in its 

 different stages of development. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In examining various common animals of our household, Prof. 

 Leidy had found a thread worm, infesting the common house-fly. 

 The worm is from a line to the tenth of an inch long, and lives in 

 the proboscis of the fly. It was found in numbers from one to 

 three in about one fly in five. The parasite was first discovered 

 in the house-fly of India, by the English naturalist, Mr. H. J. 

 Carter, who described it under the name of Filaria Muscx, and 

 suggested the opinion that it might be the source of the Guinea 

 worm, Filaria Medinensis in man. Mr. Carter states that he 

 found from two to twenty of the worms iu one fly of three. Dr. 

 Diesing referred the parasite to a new genus with the name of 

 Habronema Muscse. The singular position in which the worm 

 lives suggests the man}' unsuspected places we have to search to 

 find the parents or offspring of our own parasites. 



Notice of some Fresh Water Infusoria. Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that a species of Limnias, belonging to the order of wheel animal- 

 cules, or Rotatoria, was exceedingly abundant in our rivers. It 

 lives in a tube, of its own construction, attached to aquatic plants 

 and stones. He had not been able to determine whether it was a 

 diflerent species from the L. ceratophylli of Europe. The latter 

 Is described as solitary, but the common Limnias of our rivers is 

 remarkable for the dense bunches that it forms. In many locali- 

 ties of the Schuylkill almost every stone exhibits multitudes of 

 such bunches, pendent from the sides and under part. The 

 bunches are conical, and usually one tube serves as a pedicle, 

 while the others hang from it and often curve outwardly. From 

 two or three to as man}' as fifty tubes may be counted in a bunch. 

 This fasciculated character mav distinguish the animalcule as a 

 variety, which might l)e named L. socialis. 



The bunches of Limnias form a support for a multitude of 

 other animalcules. Among the latter, C'otJiurnia pusilla is quite 

 common. Prof. Leidy had also observed upon the bunches on 

 several occasions the curious branching infusorium described by 

 Ehrenberg, and also described and figured by Claparede under 

 the name of Dendrosoma radians. This measures a half a line 

 or more in length, and terminates in branchlets, each with a 

 rounded end, from which project a multitude of delicate raj'S, 

 extending as much as the one-twelfth of a line in length. 



September 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



Dr. Nolan, having announced the death of Dr. John Hamilton 

 Slack, made the following remarks : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Dr. Slack was born September 23(1, 1834. After graduating 

 from the Department of Arts of the University of Pennsylvania, 

 he made a tour of Europe, Northern Africa, and the Nile, and was 

 elected a member of the Academy in July, 185*7. During the same 

 year he presented valuable specimens of Egyptian natural history 

 and antiquities, for which tiie thanks of the Academy were formally 

 returned. The next year he presented for publication a paper, 

 wliich appeared in the Proceedings under the title " Catalogue 

 and Notes on the Egyptian Antiquities in the Museum of the 

 Academy'." In the spring of 1859 he graduated from the Medical 

 Department of the University, and at once applied himself to the 

 practice of his profession and the studj'^ of natural history. From 

 this time until his removal from the city he was an active and 

 enthusiastic worker in the Academy. His name appears in the 

 Proceedings as a constant contributor to the museum and library, 

 and also as the author of three papers on Mammalogy, the most 

 important of which was a monograph of the Prehensile-tailed 

 Quadrumana of South America. The work, however, b}^ which 

 he will be longest remembered as a member of the Society is his 

 Handbook to the Museum, the first edition of which appeared in 

 1861 and was rapidly exhausted. A second edition was imme- 

 diately issued, and of this, also, several thousand copies were sold, 

 showing that the Handbook supplied a want long felt, and which, 

 in consequence of the partial rearrangement of the collections, 

 aoain exists. 



Dr. Slack was elected Librarian of the College of Physicians 

 in December, 1864, and served until December 31, 186*7. He 

 removed from the city in 1868 to his estate in Warren Count}', 

 New Jerse}', which he named Troutdale, and where he resided 

 until his death, on August 24, 1874, actively engaged in pisci- 

 culture. So highly was his work in this field appreciated that he 

 was appointed one of the Fish Commissioners of New Jersey. He 

 also rendered important service as Assistant United States Fish 

 Commissioner under Prof. Baird, during the winter of 1873-*74, in 

 hatching nearl}^ half a million eggs of the Salmo quinnat received 

 from California, and in distributing the fry to various rivers of the 

 Middle and Southern States. His contributions to the literature 

 of practical fish culture during this time were numerous and valu- 

 able. 



Dr. Slack was a gentleman of unusuall}' varied attainments. 

 Although he was most devoted to the natural sciences, he exhibited 

 an active interest in literature and art. He possessed talents as 

 a musical composer which, if cultivated, would have secured him 

 a wide-spread reputation. As it is, his arrangement of Home, Sweet 

 Home has rendered his name familiar to thousands who know 

 nothing about his life-work. He extended hearty sympathy' and 

 valuable assistance to those who took an interest in the pursuits 

 to which he was devoted ; and these, as well as more advanced 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



students of natural history, who recognized in him a valued asso- 

 ciate, will hear of his death with unfeigned sorrow. 



September 8. 



The President, Dr. Rlschenberger, in the chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Xotes on Santa Fe Marls and some of the Contained Verte- 

 brate Fossils." B^^ E. D. Cope. 



" On a new Variety of Helix." By James Lewis, M.D. 



Notice of a Remarkable Amoeha. Prof. Leidy stated that in 

 the early part of last June, in examining some material obtained 

 from a mill-pond at Absecom, Xew Jersej', he had observed a most 

 wonderful amoeboid animal, of which he had made notes, but was 

 not able at the time to make a drawing and satisfactory descrip- 

 tion. Subsequently he sought patiently for two days in the same 

 material for another individual, but without success. Last week he 

 made a visit to the Absecom mill-pond to seek the curious 

 amoeboid, and was so fortunate as to find it again. Prof. Leidy 

 exhibited a drawing of the animal, and described it as follows : 



The animal at rest is spherical or oval, or constricted back of the 

 middle. In the spherical form it measured the one-fifth of a milli- 

 metre in diameter ; in the oval and constricted form it was about 

 one-fourth of a millimetre long, and one-sixth of a millimetre broad. 

 It is white or cream colored, opaque, or translucent at the border, 

 and was spotted green from food balls of desmids. It moves with 

 extreme sluggishness, and with little change of form. From the 

 fore part of the body the animal was observed to project almost 

 simultaneously a number of long, conical, acute pseudopods, about 

 the one-twelfth of a millimetre long. From the back part in the 

 same manner a multitude of papillaform pseudopods were projected 

 about the one-fiftieth of a millimetre long. All the pseudopods and 

 the surface of the body everywhere bristled with innumerable 

 minute spicules. From time to time more or less obtuse i^ortions 

 of the clear ectosarc were projected, and these likewise were 

 observed to be covered with the minute spicules. The opacity 

 of the animal prevented the exhibition of a nucleus, if such exists. 



In general appearance the curious creature resembles one of the 

 forms of Pelomyxapalustris, described b3' Prof. Greef, in Schultze's 

 Archiv, vol. x. pi. iv., fig. 9, but in this, minute spicules project only 

 from the posterior disk-like extremit}' of the bod}', as thej' have 

 also been observed to do in the corresponding part of Amceba 

 villosa, of Wallich, and perhaps other species. 



The general spiculate character of the Absecom amoeboid is 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



probably sufficient to distinguish the animal generically from 

 Amoeba, and in this view the animal ma}^ be named Deinamoeha 

 mirabilis. 



On the Mode in lohich Amoeba stoallows its Food. Prof. Leidy 

 remarked that he had supposed that Amoeba swallows food by 

 this becoming adherent to the body, and then enveloped much 

 as insects become caught and involved in syrup or other viscid 

 substances. He had repeatedly observed a large Amoeba, which 

 he supposes to be A. princeps^ creep into the interstices of a 

 mass of mud and appear on the other side without a particle ad- 

 herent. On one occasion he had accidentally noticed an Amoeba, 

 with an active flagellate infusorium, a Urocentrum, included be- 

 tween two of its finger-like pseudopods. It so happened that the 

 ends of these were in contact with a confervous filament, and 

 the glasses above and below, between which the Amoeba was ex- 

 amined, effectually prevented the Urocentrum from escaping. The 

 condition of imprisonment of the latter was so peculiar that he 

 was led to watch it. The ends of the two pseudopods of the 

 Amoeba gradually approached, came into contact, and then actually 

 became fused, a thing which he had never before observed with 

 the pseudopods of an Amoeba. The Urocentrum continued to move 

 actively back and forth, endeavoring to escape. At the next moment 

 a delicate film of the ectosarc proceeded from the body of the 

 Amoeba, above and below, and gradually extended outwardly so 

 as to convert the circle of the pseudopods into a complete sac, 

 inclosino- the Urocentrum. Another of these creatures was noticed 

 within the Amoeba which appeared to have been inclosed in the 

 same manner. 



This observation would make it appear that the food of the 

 Amoeba ordinarily does not simply adhere to the body, and then 

 sink into its siibstance, but rather, after becoming adherent or 

 covered by the pseudopods or bodj', is then inclosed by the active 

 extension of a film of ectosarc around it. 



The death of Dr. Jeffreys Wyman was announced. 



September 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-three members present. 



On the Motive Poioer of Diatomes. Prof. Leidy made some re- 

 marks on the moving power of diatomes, desmids, and other alga. 

 While the cause of motion remains unknown, some of the uses are 

 obvious. The power is considerable, and enables these minute 

 organisms when mingled with mud readily to extricate themselves 




14-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and rise to the surface, where the}' maj- receive the influence of 

 light and air. In examining the surface-mud of a shallow rain- 

 water pool, in a recent excavation in brick clay, he found little 

 else but an abundance of minute diatomes. He was not sufficiently 

 familiar with the diatomes to name the species, but it resembled 

 Navicula radiosa. The little diatomes were very active, gliding 

 hither and thither, and knocking the quartz sand grains about. 

 Noticing the latter, he made some comparative measurements, and 

 found that the Naviculoe would move grains of sand as much as 

 twenty-five times their own superficial area, and probably fift}'^ 

 times their own bnlk and weight, or perhaps more. 



Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt made the following remarks : 



"While examining, this summer, into the structure of some of the 

 so-called insectivorous plants, but more especially' into the ana- 

 torn}' of the genus Nepenthes^ I observed a part which I have not 

 seen expressed before, and of sufficient interest, perhaps, to go 

 upon record. 



In the vegetable kingdom it is exceedingly rare to meet with 

 glands which have distinct excretory ducts. Some authors deny 

 their existence entirely; but in Nepenthes rafflesiana^ N. distilla- 

 toria, and X. 2)hyUamphora, and probabW in all the species, are 

 large C3dindrical glands which pour out their secretion through 

 distinct excretory ducts. In N. distiUatoria these glands are, on 

 an average, about the one-thirt3'-fifth of an inch long, and the 

 one-twentieth of an inch wide, while the ducts measure about the 

 one-thirtietli of an inch in length. In the Rafflesiana the glands 

 and ducts are much larger. A dense tissue of cells surrounds and 

 thoronghl}' imbeds these glands in Nepenthes.^ and this peculiarity 

 of position renders excretory ducts necessary for the secretion to 

 find its way into the pitchers. 



In the vegetable kingdom it is the rule for glands to be located 

 on surfaces, but in Nepenthes where one s^'Stem of glands is im- 

 bedded the duct becomes necessary', and so far as I know is the 

 only instance of such ducts among plants. 



September 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirt3'-five members present. 



Remarks on Sponges. ^-Fr of. Leidy remarked that the animal 

 nature and structure of the sponges were first clearly made known 

 b}' Mr. H. J. Carter, of England, and Prof. H. James Clark, of 

 this country'. The sponges are compound, flagellate infusoria. 

 The sponge infusorium had been a])propriately named by Mr. 

 Carter the spongozoon, the exact characters of which were first 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



noted bj' Prof. Clark, and confirmed by Mr Carter. The spongo- 

 zoon is a globular cell, surmounted by a delicate cup, from the 

 bottom of whicli projects a tlagellum. The little animals are situ- 

 ated on the interior of hollow si:)heres of the sponges sustained 

 b}' the skeleton of the compressed animal, whether this be corne- 

 ous, as in the common sponge, or whether it be siliceous or calca- 

 reous. The observations of Prof. Clark had been made on a fresh 

 water sponge, to which he had given the name of Spongilla arach- 

 noidea. Mr. Carter's observations had been made on both fresh- 

 water sponges and the difterent classes of marine sponges. Prof. 

 Leidy at first supposed that the sponge described by Prof. Clark 

 might be the one he had formerly noticed under the name of Spon- 

 gilla fragiliH (Proc. A. N. S. 1851, 278), but comparison proved 

 them to be different. They are both of the same color, but the 

 siliceous spicules of S. arachnoidea are stated to be tuberculate, 

 while they are smooth in S. fragilis. Dr. Leidy had examined the 

 spongozoon of the latter, and found that it presented the same 

 essential structure as described b}' Prof. Clark and Mr. Carter in 

 other sponges. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that he had found several speci- 

 mens of the curious rhizopod, discovered by Cienkowski, and 

 named by him Clathrulina elegans. They were found among Utri- 

 cularia, but though retaining their stems were unattached and 

 apparently dead. One of the specimens presented a peculiar and 

 as 3-et unexplained character. On one side of the laticed head 

 the orifices were capped with little inverted, hemispherical cups, 

 from the top of which projected a funnel like the cup of the spon- 

 gozoa. Prof. Leid}^ was pursuing his searcli for the living and 

 attached Clathrulina. 



Prof. Leeds made some remarks concerning a remarkable mine- 

 ral found in a bank of white sand near Fa^'etteville, N. C. It was, 

 in appearance, a rod of glass, four feet in length and two inches 

 in diameter, which was made up of a great number of irregular 

 fragments. These fragments were iiighly polished on one side 

 the side apparentl3' turned toward the hollow axis of the rod, and 

 excessively contorted on the exterior side. They consisted almost 

 entirely of silex, the remainder being cliieflj^ oxide of iron. Ac- 

 curate analj'sis showed that the percentages of the constituents 

 in these siliceous fragments and in the sand found in the hollow 

 core of the rod were the same. On account of this identit}'^ in 

 composition, and the incompetency^ of anj^ other known agent to 

 produce such a fusion of almost pure silex, it was concluded that 

 this "rod of glass" was a result of lightning a lightning-lube or 

 fulgurite^ as such products have been called. 



Prof. Leeds also gave the particulars concerning a great eleva- 

 tion of temperature which had occurred in the adit level of a lead 

 mine in Missouri, where the heat had suddenly risen from 60 to 




14G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



over 100, and had compelled the workmen, for the time Ijeing, to 

 suspend \york. The earth was found to contain over 75 per cent. 

 of sulphate of protoxide of iron, and the heating had been due to 

 the rapid absorption of ox3'gen by sulphuret of iron, disseminated 

 throughout the earth in a finely divided condition. 



Change of Habit through Fungoid Agency. Mr. Thomas Mee- 

 HAN referred to a former communication in which he exhibited 

 specimens of Euphorbia cordata, or E. humisirata, collected by 

 him in the Rockj^ Mountains, and which, normally procumbent, 

 had assumed an erect habit on being attacked by a fungulus ^ci- 

 dium Euphorbias hypericifolipe. 



He now found that the common trailing Eiqohorbia of our sec- 

 tion, E. maculata, when attacked by the same fungulus, assumed 

 the same erect habit. There was an additional interest in this 

 observation, from the fact that with change of habit of growth 

 there Avas a whole change in specific character in the direction of 

 E. hypericifolia. In a comparison of the leading characters of 

 the two species, we see that in E. maculata there is a profusely 

 hairy stem, while that of E.hyyericifolia is nearly smooth. The 

 same is true of the fruit. The leaves of the former species are 

 ver}' oblique at the base the latter nearly regular. The flowers 

 are produced in all the axils. In the E. hypericifolia the stems 

 have a tendeucj'' to be nodose at the joints, while E. maculata is 

 nearly free from this character, and the floAvers are mainly in 

 heads at the ends of the branches. The E. maculata, after the 

 fungoid attack becoming erect, also becomes nodose, and has the 

 flowers on the ends of the comparatively smooth branchlets, while 

 the leaves have lost their pointed obliquit}^ ; and, in short, all the 

 characters make an intermediate between the two species. 



He said it would not be fair to assume, from these facts, that 

 Eupihorbia hypericifolia was an evolution from E. maculata, but, 

 as there could be no doubt that nutrition was one of the fac- 

 tors in the government of form, we could sa}' that certain phases 

 of nutrition, brought about b}" an attack of a minute fungus, 

 would change the characters to the direction of those in that 

 species. 



September 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



There not being a suflScient number of members present for the 

 transaction of business, in accordance with the B3'-Laws, the 

 meeting adjourned until October 6. 



On favorable report of the Committee to which it was referred, 

 the following paper was ordered to be printed: ' 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 14t 



NOTES ON THE SANTA FE MARLS, AND SOME OF THE CONTAINED 



VERTEBRATE FOSSILS. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The palreontological and geological examination, conducted by 

 the party of the U. S. Survey, west of the north meridian, Lieut. 

 G. M. Wheeler in charge, has alreadj'^, during the present season, 

 developed facts of interest, some of which are noticed below. 

 The exploration has extended to the extensive lacustrine deposit 

 in the vallej'^ of the Rio Grande, which has been termed by Dr. 

 Haj'den the Santa Fe marls. This author describes the deposits 

 as first appearing in the north near Taos, and continuing for an 

 unknown distance southward, and occupj'ing the valley between 

 the Rocky Mountains on the east, and the Jemez range on the 

 west, he regards it as late Tertiary, but without special determi- 

 nation or co-ordination with the other known lacustrine forma- 

 tions of this continent. 



Abundant material having been obtained by the party, it is 

 easy to determine the fauna, whose remains are entombed in it, to 

 be a part of that already described by Dr. Leidy and the writer, 

 as occurring in Dakota and Colorado, under the name of Pliocene. 

 This conclusion is indicated bj^ the presence of the genera Hippo- 

 therium, Protohijjpus, Procameius^ Cosoryx, Merychyus^ and 

 known Pliocene species of other genera, among which may be 

 mentioned Canis, Acerafherium, etc. In addition to species 

 already known, a number new to science were obtained, of some 

 of which descriptions are appended. 



Martes nambianus, sp. nov. 



Represented by a mandibular ramus which supports three teeth. 

 The anterior blade of the sectorial is rather obtuse. The first 

 premolar is one rooted ; the second and third are without pos- 

 terior coronal lobe, but exhibit small basal lobes, both anterior 

 and posterior. The anterior of the second is rather elevated, and 

 the entire crown is directed obliquely forwards. Canine com- 

 pressed. Mental foramina below the second and third premolars. 



Measurements. m. 



Length of three premolars 006 



Elevation of anterior lobe of sectorial. .... .002 



Depth of ramus at anterior lobe of sectorial . . . .003 




148 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



This species is of smaller size than the M. mustelinus, Cope,^ 

 and the sectorial tooth less elevated and trenchant. 



Cosoryx ramosus, sp. nov. 



Cha7'. Gen. Inferior molars prismatic, 3-3 ; the premolars all sectorial, 

 last with short branch crests. Molars with basal intercolumnar tuber- 

 cles. Horns superciliary, solid, branched. 



This genus was indicated by Dr. Leidj^ from a horn of the spe- 

 cies known to him, the Cosoryx fur catus^ from the Pliocene beds 

 of the Niobrara. The same, or a similar species, has left abun- 

 dant remains in the Santa Fe marls, and, in connection with the 

 more numerous G. ramosus, has enabled me to determine' the 

 dental and other characters of the genus. 



After a careful examination of the horns of these species in my 

 possession, those of eighteen individuals (at least I find that of 

 ten where the basal portion is preserved), the beam has been 

 broken off and reunited by anchylosis in six. In most of these 

 the spot is marked by a ring of exostosed tuberosities, like those 

 constituting tl\e burr of the deer's horn. The fracture has taken 

 place in every instance at a point as far above the frontal bone as 

 the burr of deer is situated, and i,s irregular in outline, higher on 

 one side than the other. In some of the specimens the smaller 

 antlers are also broken, and exhibit a similar burr, but the terminal 

 portion is usually lost. In one specimen, a broken antler is an- 

 chjdosed in the ttsual manner of overlapping ends. 



The horns are solid, the centre having a narrow spongy axis. 

 The surface is dense, and marked by arterial grooves, but not 

 pierced b^^ noticeable foramina. 



It is evidentlj^ a question whether this genus should be referred 

 to the hollow or solid horned Ruminantia, to the Bovidse or Ger- 

 vidas. The horns might be regarded as those of deer, were it not 

 for the occasional specimens without burr, while the teeth are both 

 cervine and bovine. We may here draw such inferences as we can 

 respecting the nature of the covering of the horn. That the frac- 

 tured beam should not be lost, indicates the presence of some kind 

 of covering to retain it. That this covering was not horny, is 

 probable from the fact that the horns are branched, a structure 

 impossible to the Bovidae, since antlers effectually prevent the 

 usual mode of increase of horn by additions at the base and 

 removal at the extremity. That such covering protected arteries, 



' Hayden's Annual Report, 1874. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



which aided in the production of the burrs, is also probable. We 

 may thus believe it to have been dermal lilie that of the giraffe or 

 the Aittilocajira at the period of immaturity of its horny sheath. 



It may be concluded then tliat the genus Cosoryx represents 

 the ancestral type of the Cervidae, and explains the origin of the 

 remarkable type of horns of that family as follows : Ruminants 

 with fixed horns of structure more dense and brittle than others 

 of the same type, in their annual combats at the rutting season, 

 ver}^ frequently broke the beams off not far above the base. The 

 usual location of nutrition followed, which being annually re- 

 peated, became as periodical in its return as the activity of nutri- 

 tion of the reproductive system. This activity ceasing, the horn 

 being dense lost its vitality, the more so as the normal covering 

 would have already perished in its distal portions. The natural 

 consequence, the separation of the dead from the living bone by 

 suppuration, would follow. This process would, however, probably 

 require a longer time for the establishment of its periodical return 

 than the fracture and attachment of the existing horn. 



This. appears to be the only explanation of the origin of the 

 phenomena exhibited by the horns of the Gervidse, and is sug- 

 gested by the specimens of Cosoryx to be described. 



Char. Specif. This species is larger than the C.furcatus^ Leidy, 

 and exhibits two antlers instead of one, of which the first is given 

 off at a point much further from the base than in that species. 



The beam near the base is curved a little inwards, and is semi- 

 circular in section, the outer face being slightl}^ concave, the inner 

 very convex. The base is situated a short distance within the 

 free superciliary border. The beam becomes more cylindric, and 

 then expanding in a fore and aft direction, gives off an antler at 

 right angles, nearly paraljel to the cranial axis. At a distance 

 little over half the elevation of the first antler, the beam gives off 

 a second, in a plane transverse to the axis of the skull. The 

 terminal portion of the beam is cjdindric, curved, and acute at 

 the apex. 



Mandibles with teeth of two species of this genus were found, 

 the smaller of which, occurring with the other portions of C./ur- 

 catus. belong to it. The larger differs in the elevation of the 

 intercrescentic column of the first molar, which is worn into a 

 loop at ordinary' maturity ; this may however be but an individual 

 variation. The diastema is long, and the ramus of that point 

 quite slender. 




150 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cosoryx teres, sp. nov. 



Established on the connected frontal bones supporting the 

 horns of one specimen, and represented by portions of horns of 

 two others. The former individual is larger than any one belong- 

 ing to the other species, and the species is doubtless the largest 

 of the genus. The horns stand above the posterior part of the 

 orbit, which excavates its base, and presenting a considerable face 

 descending into the temporal or z3'gomatic fossa. There is no 

 free superciliarj- rim outside of the base as in C. ramosus^ Cope. 

 The section of the beam near the base is a regular oval, the long 

 axis directed longitudinally and a little outward in fi'ont. The 

 beam is erect with a slio^ht curvature outwards at the inner base 

 onl}'. So far as preserved it does not branch, but may do so in 

 its distal portion which is lost. The tissue is more spongy in- 

 teriorly than in the other species; supra-orbital foramen far within 

 the superciliary border. 



Measurements. m. 



Outer width between bases of horn cores 112 



Inner width between bases of horn cores 

 Width of temporal fossa behind horns . 

 Long diameter horn core 

 Short diameter horn core 

 Length of part preserved 



.055 

 .053 

 .028 

 .021 

 .033 



This species was as large as the Antilocapra americana of the 

 plains. 



Hesperomys loxodon, sp. nov. 



An entire mandibular ramus w^tli all the teeth preserved, was 

 found in the same deposits as the preceding species. Molars sub- 

 equal, short-crowned, triturating surface sigmoid. The apices of 

 the sigma on the inner side, tubercular, and anterior to the outer 

 apices. First molar with an additional transverse crest in front. 

 Incisor compressed, outer angle of enamel face rounded, smooth. 

 Molar series oblique, rising anteriorly. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Measitrements. m. 



Length of molar series 0050 



" of first molar 0018 



Depth below last molar (inner side) 0030 



" below first molar 0045 



" of incisor 0015 



" as diastema 0027 



Panolax sanctaefidei, gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. Gen. Molars prismatic, transverse, except the first and 

 last, each divided by a plate of enamel extending transversely from 

 the inner side. Anterior molar longitudinal; posterior molar 

 composed of two columns. 



This genus is represented by numerous teeth and portions of the 

 cranium. It evidently belonged to the Leporidse, and is allied to 

 both Lepus jind Palseolagus. As the teeth are mostly sepai'ate, it 

 is not easy to determine which is the posterior and which the ante- 

 rior molar. Judging by the analogy of the known species, the 

 determination as here made is correct; should the relations be 

 reversed the species will be referred to Palseolagus. 



Char. S2:)eci.f. The teeth are curved, the convexity inwards. 

 Inner face grooved, the groove occupied by cementum ; the outer 

 border compressed either without or with very shallow groove. 

 First molar with triturating- surface twice as Ions: as wide with 

 an entering loop of enamel on the inner side, anteriorly narrower. 

 Last molar as wide antero-posteriorly as transversely, the shaft 

 curved backwards ; the posterior column sub-cylindric half the 

 diameter of the anterior. 



Measurements. Inch. 



Diameter of middle molar i antero-posterior 



(. transverse 



first molar \ antero-posterior 

 ( transverse . 

 ( an 

 (tra 

 Length of crown of last molar 



last molar i ^ntero-posterior 

 transverse . 



.093 



.187 

 .140 

 .002 

 .100 

 .065 

 .250 



This species is about the size of the northern hare. 



Cathartes umbrosus, sp. nov. 



Represented by numerous portions of nearly all parts of the 

 skeleton, in excellent preservation. The beak from the frontal 

 bone to near the apex is preserved ; it displays the depression just 

 anterior to the nares, which marks the anterior boundary of the 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



cere. The cnlmen is nearly horizontal to just beyond this mark, 

 and then exhibits a gradual decurvature to the apex. The beak 

 is strongly compressed, and the tomia strongly decurved, forming 

 an open festoon, whose middle point marks one-fourth the length 

 of the beak from the uares. The latter are directed obliquely down- 

 wards and forwards, narrowing anteriorly, and having a prominent 

 inferior bounding ledge. The mandible is weak, the symphysis 

 marking on half the length of the beak, from the anterior angle of 

 the nares. 



The bones of the anterior extremities exhibit large and power- 

 ful proportions as compared with the posterior, appropriatel}' to 

 capacitj' for sustained flight. The head of the humerus is much 

 compressed, and the articular face is nearly divided into two by 

 the deep bicipital groove. The head of the femur is small, and 

 the rotular face, a wide and deep groove. The tibia is slender, 

 the shaft much compressed, with a prominent ridge. The cuemial 

 crest is short, and not produced downwards on the shaft. The 

 distal posterior bridge is narrow and oblique. The tarso-raetatai'- 

 sus has a strong exterior crest which constitutes half the width of 



the shaft. 



Measurements. Inch. 



Length of beak from base of CLilmeu ( q i ) ^-^^ 




PrDc.A.N.S. 1874 



Plate IE. 



.-T/rf^-y- 



"> 



P 







4 



J 



\ 



\ 



\f} 





>/ 



Conrad's Fossils of the Pebas, Group 





^^oc. AN.S. I 87 4-. 



-Pl^U J 3. 



Z]^All ON BRAD^rrVS , ATELES MD MACACUC 





'Prop AN.S. /^'/r-f. 



'Pla^e 14'. 





i- 



/ 





-e 



- d 



CHAPMAN Oil ATELES. 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



October G. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twentj^-nine members present. 



Wheat and Chess. Mr. Thomas Meehan introdnccd a subject 

 which he said had never before, to his knowledge, been brought 

 directly' to the attention of a scientific bod3' the popular belief 

 that wheat will turn to chess. The scientific world niitrht well be 

 pardoned for deriding such an idea, for if so distinct a genus as 

 Triticum can be found to produce a Bromu.-i, the most exaggerated 

 notion of the "leaping" power of nature must be enlarged in con- 

 sidering theories of evolution. Yet he might sa}'^ he had seen 

 many popular impressions, derided b^' men of science, prove true. 

 When a boy his agricultural friends insisted that the same toad 

 which would deposit its eggs in water when convenient, would 

 bring forth its young alive when deprived of the water privilege. 

 He had proved the fact b}' keeping toads in breeding condition in 

 confinement, and counting the toadlets when certainly not more 

 than a few da_ys old. The idea was once derided by intelligent 

 men, but he believed most zoologists now admit that the common 

 toad is oviparous or viviparous according to circumstances. In 

 like manner in his youth lie saw five young snakes, one after 

 another, enter the mouth of the parent when alarmed. 'J'his was 

 a universal belief of countrj'- people ; yet only last year, on over- 

 whelming evidence before the American Association, was it 

 admitted as scientific truth. Again, during the past year we had 

 seen how a popular belief in regard to an apparent elongation of 

 tree trunks had proved to be true, though the popular reasoning 

 was wrong. We now know that trees may sometimes be lifted 

 from year to ^-ear Iw the gradual thickening of roots growing 

 over a rocky base, so that a side branch, which in a young tree 

 is opposite to a mark, may, in time, be as much as a foot above 

 it, as popular observation contends it sometimes will. With these 

 things in mind he had held himself open to give even some trouble 

 to get reputed facts with reference to tliis question of chess. He 

 now exhil)ited one of several specimens sent him by Mr. Levette 

 of the Indiana Geological Survey, and proceeded to point out 

 that there could be no mistake about the branch from the wheat 

 ear being Bromus secalinus.^ the common chess, so far as the palea 

 and glumes were concerned. In the flowers he had dissected he 

 found no perfect grain to compare with wheat. In instances pre- 

 viously' recorded there seems never to have been an}^ dispute about 

 the appearance from the wheat head being the real Bromus. But 

 it had been contended that in these cases an examination had 

 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sliown an accidental union of two culms, one from each plant, and 

 wliicli, in some way, bad formed an apparent union one with 

 another. This api^eared not to be the case in the present speci- 

 men. In the wheat ear the small clusters of flowers inclosing the 

 ultimate grain, came out at each bend of the zigzag rachis. The 

 spike of chess ai)i)eared to come out at one of these bends, the 

 lowermost, taking, in faet, the place of one of these small clusters. 

 It was not an accidental union of two distinct parts, but appa- 

 rently a substitution of one part for another. Again the Bromaa 

 secaliuus rarel}- gets as tall as wlieat, especially so tall as this 

 strong looking wheat head had evidently grown. There was, he 

 said, another remarkable fact connected with the popular reports. 

 Man}' other grasses grow with wheat as well as B7-omus i<ecoli}n(s, 

 the common chess or cheat. It was apparently as easy for any 

 of these to become accidentally conjoined with wheat as this, but 

 no case is brought forward. There was enough in appearance, he 

 thought, that deserved further investigation. 



On Mr. Meehan's motion, the specimen was referred to the 

 Biological and Microscopical Section for examination. 



Neio Growth of Plants. Mr. John H. Redfield called the 

 attention of the Academy to some curious facts recently observed 

 b}'^ Mr. C. F. Parker. On some low marshy ground near the Dela- 

 ware River below this city, was deposited in the spring a large 

 amount of mud dredged from the channel of the river. The mud 

 was spread to the depth of several feet over a space of more than 

 an acre in extent, for the purpose of raising the level. Later in 

 the season over this whole area sprung up a growth composed 

 almost exclusively of two plants, viz., Foli/gonum 07'ientale^ an 

 East Indian species (which occasionally occurs on waste ground), 

 and Clcome pungeiis^ii West India species of less ft'equent occur- 

 rence. The former plant constituted the mass of the growth, 

 though there ma}' have been more than one hundred plants of the 

 Cleome scattered among the growtli. One or two specimens of 

 Quamoclit cocdnea, also a naturalized species, were likewise 

 noticed. Mr, Parker had also previously observed a similar case 

 upon Smith's Island, and also in two localities in Camden, where 

 channel mud had been thus deposited. Mr. Redfield thought it 

 an interesting inquiry as to whence the seeds of these plants origi- 

 nated, and how they had survived their long burial in the river 

 mud. 



Dr. Leidy thought that as the vicinity had long been used as a 

 place for the deposit of ballast from shijts, the seeds might have 

 laid upon the ground previously, and have been quickened b}' the 

 deposit of the mud. 



Mr. Meehan referred to some recent discoveries as to the effect 

 of oxygen in the germination of seeds, and thought that perhaps 

 the seeds of these plants, protected from air while buried under 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



water, might, under exposure to the air, germinate. He referred 

 to other cases of the springing up of nevv plants after the deposit 

 of fresh earth, and suggested a mode of testing the origin of the 

 seeds. 



Dr. Carson and Mr. Aubrey H. Smith called attention to the 

 great change which, during late 3'ears, had occurred in the vege- 

 tation of the neck below the city. 



On Asplenium ebenoides. Mr. Redfield then alluded to the fern 

 known as Aaplenium ebenoides^ described some years ago b}' Mr. 

 Scott, from a few plants found on the rock}' banks of the Schuyl- 

 kill above Philadelphia. Most of our botanists have doubted the 

 validity of the species, and have supposed it to be an abnormal or 

 hybrid form originating from Gampto^orus rhizophyUu!^ (Walking 

 Fern), and Asplenium ebeneum, both of which species occur abund- 

 antl}' at the locality. Recently a few plants of the same form 

 have been found near Havana, Alabama, by Miss Tutwiler, and 

 in precisely the same suspicious compan}-. Her account ma\' be 

 found in the Bulletin of the Torrey Club for May, 1873. Recently 

 Mr. A. H. Curtiss, of Libertj^, Va., has received from Alabama a 

 frond of this fern, rooting at the apex, precisely as the walking 

 fern does. Mr. Redfield thouo-ht this fact tended to confirm the 

 doubts already entertained upon the validit}- of the species. 



Notice of some Bhizopods. Prof. Leidy remarked that since 

 he had made a communication on Deinamceba mirabilia he had 

 had the opportunity of examining a number of additional speci- 

 mens. All of them appeared to be variegated with twin spots of 

 green, which he found to be due to the scattered joints of tw^o spe- 

 cies of desmids of the genus Didymoprium, swallowed as food. He 

 had observed the animal swallow a considerable portion of a ^\2i- 

 mcuto? Didymoprium Gremllii. In another instance he had seen 

 an individual eject upwards of fift}' joints o^ Didymoprium Bre- 

 bissonii, from three different portions of the body simultaneously. 

 Another peculiarity he had observed in the animal which had pre- 

 viously escaped his notice. The body appears to be surrounded 

 or enclosed in what might be called an atmosphere of minute spi- 

 cules, which can be seen as a circle a short distance beyond the 

 outline of the bod}'. 



Prof. Leidy then presented drawings and descriptions of a 

 number of Difflugians which he supposed to be new. They were 

 mostly found in a pond in Absecom Creek, New Jersey, and in 

 the sphagnum on the border of the pond. Most of the same spe- 

 cies were likewise found in a sphagnous swamp of Longacoming, 

 and in the sphagnum on the border of Lake Hattacawanna, New 

 Jersey. 



DiFFLUGiA VAS. Tcst composcd of angular quartz particles, 

 generally coarse, shape pyriform, with the neck constricted where 

 it joins the body; fundus obtuse; mouth large, circular. Ento- 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



sarc bright green from the abundance of chloro])h3l grannies. 

 Lenglli of test | mm.; neck one-fourth to one-third the length of 

 the test. Abundant in Absecom Pond, New Jersey. 



DiFFLUGiA OLLA. Test Composed usually of angular C[uartz par- 

 ticles, and occasionally of diatorae shells; form pot-like, with a 

 s[>lieroidal body, a contracted neck, a large circular mouth, a 

 reflected \i\>, and ol)luse, divergent spines projecting from the fun- 

 dus. p]ntosarc colorless. Length of test i mm. Abundantly 

 found with the preceding. The form is intermediate to Difflugia 

 corona and D. lageniformis of Wallich. 



Catharia. Ditflugians with a membranous, structureless test 

 without adherent particles of foreign matter. 



Difflugia (Catharia) papilio. Test pale yellow, transparent, 

 compressed pyriform, width less than half the breadth, border 

 acute; mouth transversel}' oval. Entosarc with many chlorophyl 

 globules, and attached bj' many bands to the inner surface of the 

 test. I'seudopods digitate. Length of test 0.112 mm., breadth 

 0.072 mm., width 0.032 mm. The living animal, from its varied 

 colors, is very handsome. Abundant in the sphagnum of Absecom, 

 of Longacoming, and of Lake Hattacawanna, ^^ew Jersey. 



Difflugia (Catharia) elegans. Test pale brown, compressed 

 bottle-shaped, width about one-half the breadth, border obtuse, 

 surface with shallow conical depressions ; mouth transversel}- oval. 

 Entosai'c colorless, or yellowish from the food balls. Length -j-'^ 

 mm.; breadth -^^ ; width ^\ mm. Ver}- abundant among the 

 sphagnum of Absecom, of Longacoming, and of Lake Hattaca- 

 wanna, New Jerse}'. 



Nebela. DiflUigians with an areolated test. 



Difflugia (Nebela) ansata. Test compressed pj-riform, width 

 about two-thirds the breadth, laterally obtuse and furnished with 

 a pair of handle-like processes projecting at the base of the neck, 

 and extending nearly parallel with and about one-third the length 

 of the bod}', colorless, transparent ; areolae appearing circular or 

 hexagonal; mouth transversely oval. Entosarc colorless, or yel- 

 lowish from the food balls. Length 0.22 mm., breadth 0.1 mm., 

 width 0.72 mm.; length of handles 0.04 mm. A rare form among 

 the sphagnum of Altsecom, having only found it twice. Remark- 

 able for the large hollow handle-like processes of the test. 



Difflugia (Nebela) equi-calceus. Test compressed pyriform, 

 the width about one-half the breadth, colorless, transparent ; cir- 

 cularly or hexagonally areolated, laterally acute and with the bod\'' 

 carinated. Carina deep and thick, and seen in the broad view 

 of the test as a horse-shoe like production with the extremities 

 free and projecting into the interior of the test towards the mouth. 

 Entosarc colorless, or yellowish from the contained food-balls. 

 Length ^ mm., breadth 0.14 mm., width 0.072 mm. Also rare, 

 and found in the same locality with the preceding, with which it 

 is equally- remarkable, from the existence of the singular horse- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



shoe-like production. It resembles the Difflugia carinata of 

 Archer, but this appears to be devoid of the horse-shoe. 



Difflugia (Xebela) sphagni. Test pale \^ellowish, compressed 

 ovoid, width little more than half the breadth, borders obtuse, sur- 

 face reticular; mouth large, transversely elliptical and with acute 

 commissures. Entosarc bright green, from the multitude of chlo- 

 rophyl grains ; pseudopods numerous, digitate Lengtli y^yUim.; 

 breadth J^ mm. ; width ^^ mm. Very abundant among the sphag- 

 num of Absecom. In some specimens the border of the fundus of 

 the test is loaded with quartz particles. Frequentl^^ the animal is 

 observed in a passive state with the mouth of the test closed by 

 an epiphragm, and the sarcode appears as a discoid ball ^V ^^^'^'^' 

 broad, and -^-^ mm. thick. 



Difflugia (Nebela) numata. Test colorless, broadly com- 

 pressed pyriform, about half the width of the breadth, borders sub- 

 acute ; surface covered with oval or circular disks, resembling in 

 appearance blood disks ; mouth transversely oval. Entosarc trans- 

 parent, colorless or yellowish from the food contents, attached by 

 long bands to the inner peripliery of the test ; pseudopods coarse 

 digitate. Length i mm., breadtli y'^, width, ^^ mm. Abundant 

 in the sphagnum of Absecom, and Lake Hattacawanna, New 

 Jerse3\ A beautiful form. The discoid areolar structure is very 

 variable, and is frequently mingled with more oi' less bodies of 

 linear form. 



Difflugia (Xebela) barbata. Test colorless, circularly areo- 

 lated, slightl}' compressed bottle-shaped ; neck long, body ovoid, 

 mouth oval; surface of test everywhere finely hirsute. Entosarc 

 colorless, or yellowish from the food contents. Length ^ mm. ; 

 breadth of body oV mm., of neck ^'^ mm.; width of bodj' ^^ mm. 

 Rare in the sphagnum of Absecom, New Jersey. 



Difflugia (Nebela) plabellulum. Test colorless, compressed 

 spheroidal, broader than long and width less than half the 

 breadth ; neck slight or nearly obsolete ; surface of test with round, 

 oval and bacilliform areolae. Entosarc colorless, or centrally yel- 

 lowish from food balls. Length of test J^ mm. ; breadth -j-'^ mm. ; 

 width ^r mm. Abundant in the sphagnum of Longacoming 

 swamp, New Jersev. 



The business of the adjourned meeting of Sept. 29th having 

 been resumed, Charles Dutilh, George Washington Smith, J. E. 

 Mitchell, Jno. Leisenring, Charles Parrish, Charles Baeder, Wil- 

 liam Adarason, Charles B. Baeder, Wm. B. Adamson, Charles W- 

 Poultney, Karl Seller, M.D., and Mrs. Amelia D. Hockley were 

 elected members. 



H. W. Hollenbush, of Reading, Pa., Prof. Peter MacOwen, of 

 Somerset, East South Africa, J. Fayrer, M.D., of Calcutta, and 

 A. L. Siler, of Osmer, near Glendale, Utali, were elected Corre- 

 spondents. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



October 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The Seibert Collection of Minerals, which was completed in 

 1820, was received on deposit, and ordered to be preserved intact 

 under that name as historic evidence of scientific progress. 



Variations in Solanum Fendleri, A. G. Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 said that among other agricultural and horticultural i)lants the 

 history of the potato was not clearly known. It was said to be a 

 native of Mexico, Chili, and Peru, but he doubted whether it had 

 been found anj'where beyond all question indigenous. Solanum 

 FencUeri^ A. Gray, had much in common with S. tuheroHiim. The 

 flowers and foliage differed chiefl}^ in being much smaller in all 

 their parts. He Iiad plants under culture for eight years, but 

 could not find any variation in the shape and size of the tubers 

 until this year, when the}- have l)egun to vary in the direction of 

 the common potato. Hitherto, the tubers haA'e been round, about 

 the size of a large bullet, and i-ugose from the imperfect tuber 

 cells on the surface. Tliis season the roots have varied in the 

 direction of the common potato. They are oval and compressed, 

 and one has reached a dimension of one inch wide and two inches 

 long, and with the skin clear and semi-translucent as we see in 

 more delicate potatoes. He thinks, however, that these facts do 

 no more tlian suggest a possibility' of the unity of origin of the 

 Solanum Fendleri and Solanum tuberosum. The fact, that the 

 former tubers will endure a temperature of zero in the ground, 

 while the latter was so easil^^ destroyed b}- frost, might, indeed, 

 be considered against such possibility unless we couhl conceive 

 of some physical change coexistent with a change of ibrm. 



Crystallization in Plants. Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt remarked that 

 the subject of crystallization in plants, though not new to botan- 

 ists, is interesting because of the extreme beauty of tliese deposits, 

 and, also, an account of the obscurity of their origin and true 

 significance in the life-historj^ of the plants. The entomologist, 

 perhaps, has need for alarm, because some botanists assert that 

 some plants devour the special objects of his study; but, 1 think, 

 the mineralogist might feel equally jealous to learn that the all- 

 devouring plants were busy picking up his cr3'stals from the 

 inorganic kingdom, and using them, at least, to beautify' their 

 own tissues. 



I would ask attention, at this time, to onlv one form of plant- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



159 



crystal the cystolith so called because the aggregation of crys- 

 tals is inclosed in a capsule or cyst within a special cell, and is, 

 moreover, connected with its cell by means of a delicate filament, 

 differing in this particular from all other cell-contents. 



In our common nettle ( Urtica) we meet with tlie ordinary form 

 of cystolith. A simple aggregation of minute crystals probably 

 oxalate of lime nearl}- circular in form, showing the capsule 

 plainly which envelops them, and also the special cell containing 

 the cystolith. About six hundred fill a line an inch long, and 

 four hundred are found in one square inch. Each cystolith con- 

 tains about one hundred individual crystals. At lowest estimate, 

 therefore, forty thousand crystals exist in one square inch of 

 nettle leaf. 



In Pilea muscosa a near ally of Ur-tica I find a tj-pe of C3'sto- 

 litli differing widely from all forms heretofore described. They 



are elongated and bent, in form, like 

 an Australian boomerang. They 

 lie in cells measuring only the ^q 

 of an inch long, and the ^l^ wide; 

 and so abundant that quite one- 

 third of the entire leaf is occupied 

 with them. Cystoliths of this mag- 

 nitude and singular form I believe 

 to be unknown to botanists. The 

 filament connecting each one with 

 its cell-wall is apparent. 



What is the significance of these 

 plant-crystals? and there are 

 others more numerous and more 

 beautiful what their office in the 

 life of the plant? what part do they 

 act in supplying the salts of lime, 

 potash, and soda to the tissues of animals? AYill scientific agri - 

 culture answer ? 



lOOOth of an inch. 



The death of Thomas Sparks was announced. 



October 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



Abies concolor in Colorado. Mr. Thomas Meehan announced 

 the discovery of Abies (Picea of Loudon) concolor in Glen Eyrie, 

 near Pike's Peak, in Colorado, by Dr. Engelmann. When, how- 

 ever, he explored what was till then an unknown caiion in 1871, 

 and which by right of a first discover}' he had named Caiion 




IGO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Engelraann. after his distinguished Iriend, and which name it still 

 retains, he found a considerable quantity in that canon also. He 

 was attracted Ly the light green cones, as distinguished from the 

 puri)lish ones of Ablefi grandis, but on climbing the trees, and 

 examining the characters, he concluded it was but a variation 

 from A. grandis^ similar to what he was already familiar with in 

 A. balsamea. Prof. Porter had also found it in Cheyenne Canon 

 in 1872 ; and, if really distinct from A. gi-andis, it is probabl}'- 

 much more widel3- diifused through the Rocky Mountains than 

 has been supposed. 



Fertilization of Gentiana. Mr. Thomas Meehan called atten- 

 tion to the fact that the autumn-blooming gentians were now in 

 flower ; and a close investigation promised an interesting field to 

 the botanist. They belonged to the class with gelatinous pollen, 

 and whicli was now believed to require the aid of insects in fertili- 

 zation ; but many of our species had closed corollas, which seemed 

 to make fertilization by this agency difficult. In connection with 

 this subject he said Dr. Engelraan had made some curious ol)ser- 

 vations on the gentians of the Rocky Mountains. All the large 

 flowered species (as Gentiana affinis, G.frigida^ G. Parryi, etc.) 

 have the anthers definitely fixed, and open outwards towards 

 the corolla; while those of the smaller species (such as G. acuta^ 

 and neighboring genera, Sioertia and Pleurogyne) have the face 

 of the anthers directed towards the ovary at an earl}' stage of 

 development, but, on expansion of the corolla, are thrown over 

 the filament, and then face outwards as the others. The stigma 

 is cloven, but the lobes do not expand till several hours after the 

 anthers have shed their pollen. Mr. Meehan finds the anthers of 

 the large flowered eastern species accord with Dr. Engelman's 

 observations on the Colorado ones, in having the anthers fixed 

 from the first outwardl}-, at least in all that he has been able to 

 examine. 



Variations in Leaves of Ailanthus glandulosa. Some leaflets 

 gathered from the trees by Dr. H. Leffman were exhibited, in 

 which the usual lanceolate form was departed from, and a triangu- 

 \av\y hastate, or aceriform shape, assumed. 



Note on Dryocampa. Prof. Leidy stated that the oaks in the 

 forests of New Jerse}', during the last summer, were greath' devas- 

 tated by the Dryocampa senatoria. In the earl}- part of Septem- 

 lier, in passing along the edge of a forest skirting a cranberry 

 swamp, at Absecom, New Jersey, he had observed multitudes of 

 the Dryocampa lying dead on the swamp and all bristling with the 

 sinaular fungus Aclilva prolifera. 



The death of M. Elie de Beaumont, a correspondent of the 

 Academy, was announced. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 161 



October 27. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent3'^-five members present. 



Chapter XIY., Art. Y. of the By-Laws was amended to read 

 as follows : " Six members shall constitute a quorum. Except 

 the election of members and corres})ondents, no question other 

 than purely scientific shall be decided at any meeting unless at 

 least twenty members vote ;" the words " except the election of 

 members and correspondents" being added to the original article. 



The following paper was presented for i)ublication : 

 "Synopsis of the Muridai of North America." By Dr. Elliott 

 Coues, IJ. S. A. 



W. S. Bissel, Dr. A. M. Owen, U. S. N., James Dougherty, 

 Daniel Maul, John Rothermel, John B. Robinson, Charles H. 

 Howell, and Mrs. Elizabeth V. Graham, were elected members. 



Dr. A. E. Carothers, of Saltillo, Mexico, was elected a Corre- 

 spondent. 



On report of the Committee to which it was referred, the follow- 

 ing paper was ordered to be published : 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON A NEW VARIETY OF HELIX. 

 BY JAS. LEWIS, M.D. 



Among the interesting shells observed recently b}' Miss Law 

 among the mountains of North Carolina, near Ha3^esville, is a 

 variety of Helix (Stenotrema) monodon, Rackett, of which there 

 appears to be no record. The shells in question present the un- 

 mistakable characters of monodon modified in the following par- 

 ticulars: The whorls are more flattened than usual, making the 

 whole shell flattened and more discoidal than has hitherto been 

 remarked of this species. The periphery is slightly carinate or 

 onlj' obsoletely carinate, specimens vaiying slightly among each 

 otlier in this respect. The larger number of specimens are marked 

 with a single, faint, brown band on the peripher3',in which respect 

 may be observed a habit comparable with what has heretofore 

 been remarked of banded specimens of Mesodon elevafa. The 

 presence of this band on some of the shells imparts a somewhat 

 variegated aspect to the superior portion of the shell. 



It is scarcely to be presumed that specific characters will be 

 predicated upon the variable features above mentioned, but the 

 variety seems to be so well characterized as to deserve a name hy 

 which to distinguish it, and I therefore venture to propose for it 

 the following designation, viz.. Helix (Stenotrema) monodon, 

 Racket, var. cincta. 



Specimens from near Hayesville, Clay Co., N. C, are herewith 

 presented in the name of Miss Law. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



November 3. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty- six members present. 



A paper entitled " On new species of NoctuidjE," by Ang. R. 

 Grote, was presented for publication. 



The President read the following extract from a letter written 

 by Prof. Edw. D. Cope, and dated " Camp near Naciraiento, X. M., 

 Oct. 11, 1874 :" "I have been camped for some five weeks in this 

 region with five men, forming one of Lieut. Wheeler's surveying 

 parties. I find much of interest geologicall}-, paleontologically, 

 and archfeologically, and have an agreeable location in a country 

 with good water, timber, and grass, and, I may add, Indians. The 

 latter are Apaches, Utes, and Navajoes, all friendl}'. I find many 

 remarkable ruins of rude stone buildings of an extinct race, with 

 great quantities of broken pottery. I discovered a ruined stone 

 village of twenty-five houses arranged on the edge of a cretaceous 

 sandstone hog-back, from six to twelve feet wide only, and 250 to 

 300 feet perpendicular on one side, and on the other sloping at an 

 angle of 45 to 60, besides other ruins in regions now entirely 

 waterless." 



Dr. F. Y. Haj'den exhibited a series of photographs of ruins 

 similar in character to those spoken of by Prof. Cope. The 

 builders were suj^posed to be the ancestors of the Moquis. 



Wheat and Chess. The specimen of wheat (Ti'iticum) with a, 

 head of cheat (Broimis) apparently'' growing from a joint of the 

 former plant, which had been presented to the Academy at the 

 meeting of Oct. 6, having been referred to Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt 

 for examination, he made the following report: 



After rendering the chaff of both plants transparent, and tinting 

 properly, so as to render every morphological element distinct for 

 study, and after treating the doubtful outgrowth similarly, I pre- 

 sent tlie tliree specimens to the meml)ers for study. 



I will call attention to only a few points of structure in each. In 

 the upper glume of the wheat, on the inside surface against which 

 the grain lies, the cells are large, and are bounded at their ends by 

 cell-walls nearly transverse to the long diameter of the cells. In 

 corresponding cells in cheat the ends of the cells are bounded by 

 oblique lines generally. In the outer or epidermal cells of both 

 plants silica is abundant, the deposit occurring at the ends of the 




161 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cells, bill in granules differently formed in the wheat, from those 

 in the cheat. 



It is impossible to conve}' in words, an idea of this difference 

 in form. In the cheat the silica granules are larger and more 

 abundant than in Avheat. 



In the upiier glumes of both plants there are from three to nine 

 veins. In tlie wheat not more than one vein is bordered with 

 stomata, in cheat every vein has on either side a distinct row of 

 large stomata, and this peculiarit3- of structure is so distinctive 

 that the botanist can pick from a 'bushel of the mixed glumes of 

 both plants, all that belong to the cheat, without possibility of 

 mistake. Other points of dissimilarity are obvious, but I have 

 stated enough to make a comparison with the doubtful outgrowth. 



In this doubtful outgrowth from the head of wheat I find the 

 obliquely ending internal cells in the upper glume, in the epidermal 

 cells, silica deposits identical in form and position with the cheat, and 

 unlike the wheat, and every vein is bordered with a row of stomata 

 on either side. Every morphological element of the outgrowth 

 corresponds in form to analogous elements in the cheat. 1 am 

 compelled therefore to pronounce it undoubted Bromus and not 

 Triticum. But I would report further. 



Seize now, very gently, this remarkable outgrowth, with delicate 

 forceps, and out comes the Bronuis from the Triticum, and the 

 trick is exposed. The Bromus has been introduced into the Triti- 

 cum artificially, and the cement employed to make the deception 

 more secure still adheres in flakes to the artificial parasite, and 

 resembles in appearances gum tragacanth. A beautiful fungus, 

 moreover, has found a nidus in the gum solution while fresh, and 

 is not found elsewhere on the wheat. The stem of the Bromus 

 which was inserted into the wheat, bears on its epidermal surface 

 minute outgrowths resembling precisely those on the correspond- 

 ing parts of the plant which is separate from the wheat. Now, on 

 naturally internal surfaces such epidermic outgrowths never occur; 

 I have no hesitation, therefore, in pronouncing this specimen cheat^ 

 neither do I think the workman has been expert in his manipula- 

 tion. 



November 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a new species of Helmintho- 

 phaga," by Harold Herrick, was presented for publication. 



Mountain Drainage of Eastern Tennessee and Western North 

 Carolina. Ancient Burial Custom. Joseph Willcox made some 

 statements in reference to the drainage of the mountain region of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Eastern Tennessee and Western North Carolina. Tlie Blue Ridge 

 there attains its greatest development, both in width and altitude; 

 its width being from 50 to 70 miles, while more than 30 of its 

 peaks attain an altitude exceeding GOOO feet. The western border 

 range, called the Smoky Mountains, is as high as the eastern range, 

 styled the Blue Ridge ; yet all of the streams that drain this region 

 flow to the west, cutting deep gorges tlirough tlie Smoky Moun- 

 tains. Having visited this region on several occasions recently, 

 Mr. Willcox observed that the eastern and central portions of it 

 consist of gneiss rocks, while the western portion is composed of 

 other sedimentary rocks. It is presumed that tlie former was up- 

 heaved at a time long anterior to the elevation of the latter, and 

 the drainage system, having once been establislied to the west- 

 ward, continued its erosion during tlie subsequent elevation of the 

 Smoky Mountains. 



Mr. Willcox also stated that when recently in North Carolina 

 his attention was called to an unusnal method of burial by an an- 

 cient race of Indians in that vicinit3\ In numerous instances 

 burial places were discovered where the bodies had been placed 

 with the face up, and covered with a coating of plastic clay about 

 an inch thick. A pile of wood was then placed on toj) and fired, 

 which consumed tlie body and baked the clay, which retained the 

 impression of the bodj'. This was then lightly covered with earth. 



Notice of Remains of Titanotherium. Prof. Leidy directed 

 attention to two fossils recently received through Prof Ilayden. 

 They consist of an isolated last lower molar tooth and a lower 

 jaw fragment containing three teeth. The specimens are part of 

 a skeleton, most of the bones of which were found about one 

 hundred miles east of Greeley, Colorado. 



The last lower molar tooth is identical in character with that 

 referred to Titanotherium ProiUii (Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, 

 pi. xvii. figs. 8, 9, 10), except that its outer basal ridge is less well 

 developed. Tlie fore and aft diameter of the crown is three and 

 one-quarter inches; the width in front 19 lines. 



The teeth of the lower jaw fragment are either the last three 

 premolars, or the last two of these and the first molar. They are 

 like the corresponding teeth of Titanotherium Proutii. In all, 

 the crowns are bilobed. The series of three teeth measures, fore 

 and aft, four inches and five lines. The first of the series meas- 

 ures, fore and aft, 14^ lines; the second 16:^, and the third 21 

 lines. A large mental foramen is situated about an incli and a 

 half below tlie interval of the anterior two teeth. 



These remains I suspect to belong to the animal indicated under 

 the name of 31egacerops coloradensis (Extinct Vertebrate Fauna 

 of the Western Territories). This, from all the evidence I have 

 thus far seen, appears to be of the same genus as Titanotherium, 

 to which I also suspect the genus Brontotherium of Prof. Marsh, 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and the genera Symhorodon and Miobasileus of Prof. Cope be- 

 long. 



Last summer, in passing through New Haven, I had an oppor- 

 tunity of seeing the fossils referred by Prof. Marsh to Brontothe- 

 rium. Among them I saw an incisor tooth, which is like one in 

 the museum of the Academy-. Tlie latter specimen accompanied 

 some remains of Tit another ium from White River, Dakota. The 

 crown forms an irregular hemisphere, and measures from 5 to 5^ 

 lines in diameter. 



The examination of the skull, described by Prof. Marsh, under 

 the name of Brontotherium, and an inspection of the skulls, ex- 

 hibited to the Academy last June b}^ Prof. Cope, and referred by 

 him to Symborodon, confirmed m}' suspicion that these two named 

 genera are synonymous with Titanotheriian. I also suspect from 

 the cursory examination of the specimens of Profs. Marsh and 

 Cope, that the number of species will probably be reduced to one 

 or two. 



Notices of Rhizopods. Prof. Leidy exhibited drawings of the 

 beautiful Actinophryan, Clathrxdina elegans^ described by Cien- 

 kowski and other European naturalists. It was found abundanth'' 

 on Utricularia, at Absecom, New Jerse}-. The more mature speci- 

 mens have a brownish or yellowish color. The spherical, fenes- 

 trated, siliceous shell measures from ^^th to ^^-th mm. in diameter. 

 The intei'ior Actinophrys-like body is about ^^^'^ vava. in diameter, 

 and gives off a multitude of delicate rays which extend thi-ough 

 the fenestra of the shell. The stem of attachment of the shell 

 measures ^th of a mm. or more in length. 



The maturer specimens frequentl}' have others attached to their 

 shell, usually one, but as many as six wei*e observed radiating on 

 their slender stems from the parent shell. These secondary shells 

 are slightly smaller than the others, are colorless, and ofteu so 

 delicate and transparent that the fenestrate character, if it exists, 

 is invisible. 



In a number of detached specimens of Clathrulina^ the shell 

 was occupied by a central, rayless, granular mass, from ^^^th to 

 ^'pth mm. in diameter. 



Prof. Leidy also exhibited drawings of Actinosphserium Eich- 

 Jiornii, which, though not so common as Adinophrys sol, is fre- 

 quentlj' found in the ponds and ditches in the vicinity of Phila- 

 delphia. It varies considerably in size, ranging from jVth mm. 

 to I ram. in diameter. Some exhibit a multitude of rays, others 

 a few, and some observed, of large size, alive and active, were 

 utterly rayless. 



Drawings were also exhibited of Acanthocystis viridis. This 

 remarkable rhizopod occurs frequently in all the ponds and ditches 

 in the vicinity of the city. It is either very pol^-morphous, or else 

 perhaps several species may be included under the one name. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16t 



Some are green from the chlorophyl bulls occupying tbe superfi- 

 cial part of the bod3\ Others exactly alike in all other points of 

 structure are colorless. From the body project a multitude of 

 exceedingly delicate spines with discoid bases and furcate ends. 

 Rays also like those of Actinofjhrys project beyond the spines. 

 Both rays and spines in the immediate vicinity of the body are 

 enveloped in a stratum of exceedingly minute vibrio-like si)icules. 

 The green specimens of Acanthoci/stit;, independently of rays and 

 spines, measure about -jJ^th mm. in diameter; the colorless ones 

 measured about one-half the size of the former. 



Drawings were also exhibited of an Actinophryan, of which a 

 number of individuals lived together in colonies. These are not 

 unfrequently met with in the same positions as Acanthocystis and 

 Actino)<2?hserium. The species appears to be the same as that 

 recently described by Hertwig and Lesser, in the Archiv fur Mi- 

 kroskopische Anatomie,, 1874, plate iv. fig. 1, under the name of 

 Raphidiophrys eJegans. I have rej^eatedly met with the creature 

 in colonies from half a dozen up to forty. The whole colony moves 

 along with much greater rapidit}^ than Actinophrys sol. The in- 

 dividuals measure ^^gth mm. in diameter, and project a multitude 

 of rays extending to ith mm. in length. In colony the bodies are 

 conjoined by bridges or isthmi, through which chlorophyl balls 

 and granules incessantly but slowly pass from one to another. 

 The bodies and the bases of the rays are enveloped in an atmos- 

 phere of exceedingly delicate semicircular spicules. The animals 

 take their food in the same manner as Actino2')hrys sol. A colony 

 of thirty-eight was observed to break up into three separate colo- 

 nies numbering severall}- fifteen, ten, and thirteen, each of wiiich 

 moved awaj' in a different direction. 



Drawings were exhibited of Amoeba qitadrilineata, Carter, a 

 common species in the waters in the vicinity of Philadelphia. It 

 is about -vgth mm. in length b}- ^^gth mm. in breadth. The species 

 is remarkable especially for the retention of the four delicate lon- 

 gitudinal folds in all its movements. 



Drawings of two other species of Amceha were exhibited, which 

 are supposed to diflfer from those previously described. They w^ere 

 characterized as follows: 



Amceba viridis. Bright green from the multitude of contained 

 chlorophyl balls. Form of body irregularly stellate, with thick 

 conical pseudopods projecting in all directions. Sarcodic sub- 

 stance colorless and finely granular. Neither nucleus nor vacuoles 

 were observable. Movements slow. The bod}' occupied a space 

 of about ,'yth mm. The chlorophyl grains are nearly of uniform 

 diameter and measure the ^^qUi mm. Absecom Pond, New Jersey, 

 Nov. 5, 1874. 



Amceba tentaculata. Body spheroidal, oval, or limaciform, 

 projecting a multitude of long, conical, or fusiform pseudopods of 

 clear ectosarc, into which no granules of the entosarc enter ; pos- 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



teriorly finely papillate, or with a discoid papillate subdivision 

 Exterior of the body colorless and transparent; interior of tlie 

 bod}', or entosarc, 3'ellowish, and spotted brown or green from the 

 food contents. When moving the animal resembles a sea-slug, 

 Eolis, in its shape and from its many long pointed pseudopods. 

 At the fore part of the body, in progression, a large extent of per- 

 fectly clear ectosarc precedes the entosarc, equal to about one- 

 sixth the length of the body. This is blunt in front, and with its 

 divergent pseudopods resembles the head of a slug. When float- 

 ing the animal looks like a large Aclinoplu-yti with thick conical 

 rays. The animal is voracious, and feeds on desmids, diatomes, 

 and diffnse granular and flocculent vegetable matter. Leng-th of 

 the body from \Xh. to ^th mm; breadth j^'^t'' ^o ^tli mm. The 

 pseudopods up to y^^jth mm. long by xgsth mm. thick. Absecom 

 Pond, New Jerse3\ Frequent from September to November. 



On Supposed Spermaries in Amoeba Prof Leidy stated that 

 in an examination of a large Amoeba^ from Absecom Pond, N. J., 

 he had observed a point of structure which he had not previously 

 noticed in any of the species. The Amoeba generally assumed a 

 globular or oval form from the j\ to the |^ of a line in diameter. 

 It projected from an}' part of its circumference digitiform pseu- 

 dopods np to j';j of a line by the j^jj of a line thick. The gran- 

 ular matter of the entosarc was mingled with a multitude of brown 

 food balls, and numerous crystals, most of which appeared to be 

 of isometric forms. The coarser granules of the entosarc rarely 

 entered even the base of the pseudopods. 



The uniformly granular nucleus, immersed in the entosarc, 

 measured about -^\ of a line in diameter. The contractile vesicle 

 measured 2V of a line, AVith a j^^ immersion objective lens, there 

 were observed around tiie circumference of the contractile vesicle, 

 half-a-dozen granulated spheres, from ^^^ to g^, of a line in 

 diameter. The grannies of these spheres appeared to be of uni- 

 form size, and exhibited an active swarming movement, resembling 

 the motion of sperniatozoids. I could not isolate the spheres to 

 examine them more definitely, nor could I detect the ordinary 

 spermatozoid form among the closel}' swarming granules. I have 

 suspected that these granular spheres were spermaries ? After 

 having detected them with the j\ objective lens, I could barelj' 

 see them with the i objective. 



On the Geology of Certain Lands in Ritchie and Tyler Coun- 

 ties^ W. Va. Prof, Persifor Frazer, Jr,, asked the attention of 

 the meeting while he described, as follows, the geological features 

 of two tracts of land in Ritchie and Tyler Counties, W. Va., be- 

 longing to the Acadeni}', and which lie had recently been requested 

 to examine as an expert. The tract in Ritchie County exclusively 

 comprises a tolerably regular parallelogram, whose sides run north- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



cast and northwest, and whose area includes about seventeen hun- 

 dred and eightj-seven acres, divided into unequal parts, both by 

 the Hughes River and by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. The 

 north angle of the property' is distant about half a mile from the 

 station of Cornwallis on the above railroad. 



The lands themselves resemble in general character thousands 

 of square miles of territory both in West Virginia and Penns^dva- 

 nia, which are situated in the coal measures. They ma}' be de- 

 scribed as very thick deposits of sandstone and shale through 

 whose almost horizontal strata the numerous small streams have 

 cut precipitous ravines to a depth of three hundred and fifty or 

 four hundred feet. The soil, which is what is known in that part 

 of the counti'y as "white sand soil," is generally light and poor, 

 and, except in the alluvial bottoms, unsuited to the production of 

 fine cereal crops. 



These hills and plateaus are covered with forest vegetation of 

 difl!"erent kinds, the most abundant representatives of which are 

 white, red, and black oak, chestnut oak, poplar, beech, hickory 

 and ash, white and yellow pine. Locust is almost imknown on 

 the tract near Harrisville, though frequently met with in the 

 northern part of the count}'. The greatest value of the land is 

 for its production of white oak and poplar, especially the former, 

 which is cut into railroad ties and barrel staves. 



Both the Harrisville and the Tyler County tracts are situated 

 upon the so-called coal measures of West Virginia, and the former 

 of these is about ten to fifteen miles east of the town of Petro- 

 leum. So far as the mineral resources of this property (the Har- 

 risville tract) are concerned, the excitement which a few years ago 

 was allayed after an enormous expenditure of money in futile 

 efforts to procure oil in the district embracing Ellenboro', Harris- 

 ville, and Cornwallis, furnishes us with the means of making a 

 very fair estimate of them. Nothing but oil, coal, iron ore, or 

 clay is to be anticipated, and the very numerous bore-holes sunk 

 to procure the first of these presents us with seven hundred and 

 fift}' feet of measures, in no horizon of which is there a workable 

 bed of coal. The formation, with its plates of sandstone and shale, 

 is almost horizontal, and rolls gently east and west with a dip of 

 2 or less; and though different sections of these hills varied the 

 order of recurrence of their sandstone, flags, and shale, the posi- 

 tion of the onl}' coal seam found was constant, and near the beds 

 of the streams. The coal bed was opened along a small run enter- 

 ing the south corner of the Harrisville tract in several places. In 

 order to ascertain the true position of this deposit with reference 

 to the rocks on the property- which lie about one-quarter of a mile 

 northwest of the largest opening, a line was run connecting to- 

 gether the south corner of the tract, the bore-hole, and this open- 

 ing. This line was onl}' a rough approximation to the truth, the 

 distances being obtained by pacing, and the altitudes by the eye, 

 12 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



but it was clearly evident that the coal underlay tlie whole tract 

 where it had not l)een washed out by the streams. I could obtain 

 no exact information as to its value nor even a fair sample of it, 

 the excavations iiaving been nearly filled with dirt. If this bed 

 siionld prove to be the same as that opened near Ellenboro', it 

 will probabh' average from fourteen inches to eighteen inches in 

 thickness and may be of good qualit3^, but cannot for many years 

 add any great value to the lands under vvliich it occurs. This is 

 tlie only coal of which an^tiiing is known, although the bore-hole 

 of which I am about to speak developed a bed of black slates at a 

 much lower level. 



The bore-hole alluded to was sunk by Mr. Moats, and lies about 

 three hundred feet inside the southeast property' line, and about 

 thirt}^ feet north of the road. Tlie record of this exploitation was, 

 as usual, not kept, and the account which follows, taken entirely 

 from remembrance of the alternation of strata, must be accepted 

 with great allowance, and is rather valuable as indicating what 

 was not found than for any positive results ascertained. 



Shales and loose stuff (?) 50 feet. 



Very hard white rock "like marble" without grain, only 



got through three or four inches in a day . . . 4 " 

 Sand rock, black slates, sand rock and fire clay . . ? " 

 "Soap stone" (e.e. soft slaty rock) . . . . 8-10 " 



Beneath the black shales occurred a sand rock of which there 

 were three in all. 



At three hundred feet enough oil was reached to see and smell, 

 and it seemed of good qualit3\ 



Starting from a station high up the hill at the southern corner 

 of the property, a rough section gave: 



? covered with debris 70 feet. 



Reddish-gray sandstone ? feet ) 70 " 



? ? " j" 



Greenish sand rock ? " ) or, ^ 



9 9 u j- o'J 



Massive plate of sandstone 30 " 



Flat sandstone in bed of creek. 



This brings the rocks down to about the level of the bore-hole, 

 and renders it probable that the first fifty feet through which the 

 hole was sunk included the first sand rock. 



It will be remarked that in the section here described no place 

 is given to the eighteen-inch coal bed, which occurs a little higher 

 up the run. Its position is to be looked for in the fift}' feet through 

 which Mr. Moats first passed. He ma}^ not have noticed it; or he 

 ma}' have forgotten it ; or (which is very probable) these fifty feet 

 below the general level of the bank of the run may consist of loose 

 debris which the stream has torn out and scattered along its course 

 where the soft coal would have disappeared. 



It would be dislo3'al to science to hazard an opinion on the true 

 horizon of these measures without the most careful instrumental 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. HI 



work, and a thorough comparison of the labors of the Pennsylva- 

 nia and Ohio geologists, as well as the more recent sections of 

 Stevenson and White. 



It has been stated that the measures are almost horizontal, hav- 

 ing a dip of about 2 or less from low axes, which are generally 

 north and south, Mr. I. C. White, in his preliminary introduction 

 to his "Notes on the Upper Coal Measures of Western Virginia 

 and Pennsylvania," read before the Lyceum of Natural History of 

 New York, and reprinted from their Annals^ speaks of the " Divid- 

 ing Ridge" as a w^aterslied between tlie tributaries of tlie Monou- 

 gahela and those of the Oliio, which occui)ies the median line of a 

 gentle anticlinal axis which passes across tlie coal measures from 

 north to south. 



There are, without doubt, many of these gentle north and south 

 axes in the southwestern coal measures at least in Tyler, Ritchie, 

 and Pleasant Counties, and one of them on tlie western limits of 

 the Academy's Harrisville tract sheds the oil as well as the water. 



Geologically there seems to be no reason to expect awy great 

 development of mineral resources. 



Tyler County Tract During the entire time occupied by the 

 examination of the lands of the Academj-, extensive forest fires 

 prevailed, and the whole region was densely clouded with smoke, 

 which not only made it impossible to get any extended view of the 

 countiy, but so completely obscured the sun that at 3 P.M. it was 

 not possible to indicate its position in the sky. This smoke sliort- 

 ened the day and prevented mc from visiting certain tracts where 

 the fires were prevailing. 



The so-called Tyler County tract lies across the border of Tyler 

 and Ritchie Counties, from the headwaters of the largest tributary 

 to McKiin Creek, across the " Dry Ridge" to the banks of Hughes 

 River. It contains more bottom and, therefore, more arable land 

 than the Harrisville tract, and what parts have not been settled 

 on contain an abundance of fine timber. 



What I have said of the structure of the Harrisville tract applies 

 largely to that of the Tyler County tract, though the poverty of 

 the country in coal in the latter must be assumed on different 

 grounds from that of the former, where numerous borings made 

 in the search after oil served to show the absence of coal within a 

 reasonable distance below the surface; while here there are no 

 such exploitations. 



About three miles south-southwest of the lower corner of the 

 Tyler-Ritchie tract, on the property of Mr. Campbell I discov- 

 ered a thin bed of coal, which, from what I could learn, agreed in 

 general description with the thin seam opened in the base of tlie 

 liills near EUenboro'. It would be rash to generalize, from a hur- 

 ried observation of a bed beneath the surface of a run, a continuity 

 wuth the p]llenboro' bed eight miles distant, but so far as I could 

 carry the measures southward by a rapid transit over them, they 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



bore out the identit}'. If this be truly the same thin seam which 

 crops out near Ellenboro', and which I have supposed to be the 

 same as tliat on Mr. Moat's farm, there is no difficulty in prophe- 

 sying an absence of coal and oil from these Tj'ler Count}' lands. 

 If the seams are not the same the structure must be so complicated 

 as to need a special stud}'. The chauces, however, are very much 

 against the existence of valuable mineral deposits on the Tyler- 

 Ritchie tract. 



Prof Lesley remarked that he had not had an opportunit}' to 

 speak with Prof. Frazer before the presentation of his report, but 

 that he had seen Mr. Stevenson lately, who informed him of a 

 very important observation which he had made in the region of 

 the Harrisville tract. 



Mr. Stevenson had satisfied himself of the existence of a fault 

 on the Hughes River which brought up the lower measures hori- 

 zontally against the middle barren group of coal measures which 

 lay westward of them. 



Prof Lesley regretted the absence of Mr. Stevenson, who could 

 of course much better explain his own views on this subject, but 

 he believed that this fact had a most important bearing on the 

 geology of the whole region. 



Prof. Frazer asked how the horizontal structure of this faulted 

 district could be satisfactorily accounted for; to which Prof. 

 Lesley replied that it would necessitate the supposition of a 

 vertical drop of the region west of a north and south line of 

 fracture parallel to, and perhaps synonymous with, the " Oil 

 Break" anticlinal, which is only a few miles further west. 



In reply to a question as to his opinion of the probability of 

 the sanclstone of the downthrown region being the representation 

 of the Mahoning sandstone. Prof Lesley said that he understood 

 Prof Stevenson to hold that opinion. 



The Committees to which they had been referred recommended 

 the following papers to be published : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



SYNOPSIS' OF THE MTJEID^a: OF NORTH AMERICA. 

 BY DR. ELLIOTT COUES, U.S.A. 



Family MURID.E. 



Taken in its current acceptation, but witli exclusion of the 

 genus Jaculus, which differs sufficiently in dentition, in the cha- 

 racter of the anteorbital foramen, proportions of limbs, and other 

 features. 



1.1-=!; C. ^; P. 0- ; M. ^H^^ = tzi = 1 = 16 teeth. 

 11' 00' 0-0 ' 33 44 8 



Anteorbital foramen a large pja-iform slit, bounded exteriorly by 



a broad plate of the maxillary. 



Subfamily MuRiNiE. 



Molars rooted, tubercular, with crenate peripher^^ Koot of 

 under incisor causing protuberance on outside of jaw, at or near 

 notch between cond^'le and coronoid process. Descending pro- 

 cess of mandible a broad flattened plate, wholly below plane of 

 the molars. Anterior root of zj'goma deeply nicked at the ante- 

 orbital foramen. Palate nearly plane. 



Murine Series. 



Molars with three tubercles in transverse series. Soles naked. 

 (Only indigenous in the Old World introduced in the New.) 



Genus I. MUS, Linn., emend. 



1. Mus decumanus. 



2. Mus alexandrinus. 



3. Mus rattus. 



4. Mus musculus. 



' Abstract of a memoir in wliicli the characters of the varietie.s, species, 

 aud liigher groups are treated in full, with sjaionymy, bibliograpliy, etc., 

 and the argument for the views advanced. Based on the material (several 

 thousand specimens) in the Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Sigmodont Seines. 



Molars with two tubercles in transverse series. Soles normully' 

 hairy. (New World rats and mice.) 



Genus II. NEOTOMA, Say and Ord. 



Syn. 3fu/t, sp , Say and Ord, 1818 ; Desm., 1833. Arvicola, sp., Harlan, 

 1825. Lemmm, sp., Fiscb.,1839. Neotoma, Say and Ord, J. A. N. 

 S. P. iv. 1825, 346, and of authors ; type, N. floridana. Mi/oxus, sp.. 

 Rich., Zool. Journ. ill, 182S, 517 (JS^ cinerea). Teoiioma! J. E. 

 Gray (same type). 



Ohs. Embracing sigmodont rats of North and Middle America, 

 of the largest size, highly murine in general aspect. None so 

 small as the largest of the other N. American species. There are 

 abundant cranial and external generic characters. Only here we 

 find in one species a bushy distichous tail, almost as in Sciurus 

 a circumstance which doubtless caused the reference of the species 

 to 3I1JOXUS ; but other species of the genus do not show this 

 feature. 



Analysis of Species. 



I. Tail scantily hairy (nearly as in Mus). 



a. Tail bicolor, barely or not as long as the body without the head. 



Feet entirely white. Length 9 inches or less ; tail 6 or less. 



PLORIDAXA. 



b. Tail unicolor, blackish, about as long as head and body. Feet 



partly dusky. 



a'. Large ; about the size and general coloration of iV. floridana. 



PUSCIPES. 



b'. Small ; length about 7 inches. Coloration rich, warm rusty- 

 red, with snowy white uuderparts. (Extralimital.) 



FERRUGINEA. 



II. Tail densely hairy (as in Myoxus), bicolor. Size of the first, or larger. 



CINEREA. 



Ohs. In addition to the foregoing, occurs N. magister, a fossil 

 species, known only by its skull. It is a probable progenitor of 

 series I., if not of the whole. N. cinerea obviouslj^ stands apart; 

 the other species still continue more nearly united, though I have 

 not seen exactly intermediate specimens. 



' Naked in Sigmodon, in subgenus Oryzomys, and almost so in two species 

 of subgenus Vesperimus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



1. Neotoma magister, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 498, in text. Loc. of remains: Caves 

 in Pennsylvania, near Harrisburg and Carlisle. 



2. Neotoma floridana, Say and Ord. 



Stn. Mux floridana, Orel, Bull. Soc. Pliilom, Phila. 1818, 181. 

 Arvicolu floriduna, Harlan, Fn. Amer. 1825, 111. 

 Neotoma floridana, Say and Ord, J. A. N. S. P. iv. 1825, 352, pi. x. 



figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 

 Lemmus floridanus, Fischer, Syn. 1829, 299. 

 Neotoma mexicana, Bd., P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 333 ; M. N. A. 1^57, 



490 ; Mex. B. Surv. ii. 1859, 44, pi. 24, f. 1 a-g. 

 Neotoma mieropuH, Bd., P. A. N, S. P. vii. 1855, 333 ; M. N. A. 1857, 



492 ; Mex. B. Surv. ii. 1859, 44. 



Hah. Southern United States, and Northern Mexico. North to 

 Maryland (y4i/,c?u6o),New York (i?e?^), and Massachusetts (G^z66s)- 

 Illinois, Arkansas, Kansas. 



3. Neotoma fuscipes, Cooper. 



Syn. Neotoma fmcipes. Cooper's MSS., Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 495. 



Hab. California. 

 [3 his. E.xtralimital : Neotoma ferruginea, Tomes.] 

 Syn. Neotoma ferruginea, Tomes, P. Z. S. 18G1, 281. 



Hah. Guatemala. Tehuantepec (Sumichrast). 

 i. Neotoma cinerea, (Ord) Baird. 



Syn. Mus cinereus, Ord, Guthrie's Geog., 2d Am. cd., ii. 1815, 292 (based 

 on ash-colored rat icitli hairy tail of the Rochy Mts., Lewis and Clarke, 

 passim). 

 Neotoma cinerea, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 499, pi. liii. f. 4. 

 Myoxus drummondii. Rich., Zool. Jouru. iii. 1828, 517. 

 Neotoma drummondii. Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 137, pi. viii. 

 Neotoma occidentalis. Cooper's MSS., Bd., P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 

 335 ; M. N. A. 1857, 496, pi. liii. f. 3. 



Hah. Western and Northwestern North America, to the Pacific. 

 East to Nebraska, Colorado, etc., and in British America to Hud- 

 son's Ba3\ South to New Mexico and California. 



Genus III. SIGMODON, Say and Ord. 



Syn. Sicjmodon, Say and Ord, J. A. N. S. P. iv. 1825, 352. Arvicola, 

 sp., And. and Bach., Harlan, Godman. Hespero?nys (subg. Deil- 

 emys), De Saussure, R. & M. Z. 18G0 (type toltecm). 



Ohn. Yery closely related to the average sigmodont mice. 

 Larger than usual; pelage hispid; soles naked, granular; hind 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



feet veiy long. 1st and 5th toes subequal and veiy short ; fore- 

 feet not half as long as the hind. Tail nearly naked. Dental and 

 cranial characters slight. I can find but one species. 



1. Sigmodon hispidus, Say and Ord. 



Stn. Sigmodon hi^ridum, Say and Orel, J. A. N. S. P. iv. 1825, 354, pi. 



X. f. 5, G, 7, 8 ; and of authors. 

 Arvicola hispidus, Godm., Am. Nat. Hist. ii. 182G, 68. 

 Armeola Jiortensis, Harlan, Fn. Amer. 1825, 138. 

 Arvicola ferrugineus, HarL, Am. Journ. Sc. x. 182G, 285 (rnsty var. ). 

 Arvicola texiana, And. and Bach., Q. N. A. ill. 1853, 229, pi. cxlvii. 



fig. 2 (not A. texiana, Id., ibid. 319, which is Hesperomys leucopus). 

 Sigmodon berlandieri, Bd., P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 333; M. N. A. 



1857, 504 ; Mex. B. Surv. ii. 1859, 44, pi. yi. f. 2, 2a (Texas and 



Mexico). Tomes, P. Z. S. 18G1, 281 (Guatemala). 

 Hesperomys {Deilemys) toltecus, De Saussure, R. & M. Z. 18G0. p. , 



pi. ix. f. 3a (Vera Cruz). 



Hab. Southern United States and Mexico, especially coastwise. 

 South to Guatemala. 



068. Occupying a considerable stretch of countr}' tliat affords 

 ver3" different climatic conditions, this species changes insensibly' 

 from reddish-brown lined with black, beneath whitish, tail rarely 

 equalling the body alone, and hind foot not over 1.30 or under 

 1.10 (typical hisjndus), to a grayer brown, with purer white under 

 parts, tail sometimes equalling bod}'^ and head, hind foot some- 

 times 1.37 i^'' berlandierV ) ; and this to an animal like the first in 

 colors and proportionate length of tail, but the hind foot not over 

 1.10, sometimes only 0.95 {'^toUecus'''). 



Genus IV. HESPEKOMYS," Waterh., emend. 



Stn. 3Tus, sp.. And. Arvicola, sp., Harl., Am. Monthly Journ. 1832, 

 44G (nu.ttalli) ; Aud. & Bach., Q. N. A. (sonoriensis Le C, texana, 

 Woodh., AM^oryzidora, Aud. and Bach.). Uypudceus, sp., Maxim., 



' In proposing Hesperomys, Waterhouse obviously intended only to sepa- 

 rate the New World mice collectively from those of the Old World, on the 

 difference in the dentition. This is evident throughout his article in the 

 Voyage of the Beagle. Though treating only of South American species, 

 he is at pains to say in one place that " Mus leucopus, Neotoma and Sigmodon 

 certainly belong to the same group." As instituted, Hesperomys is pre- 

 cisely coequal with the tribe or series Sigmodontes as contrasted with 

 typical Old World Mures. It includes in South America, Calomys {Eligmo- 

 dontia, F. Cuv.), Habrothrix, Phyllotis, Scapteromys, Oxymicterus, Holo- 

 clieilus, and Reithrodon ; in North America, the '' Hcsjjeromys'''' of our 

 authors, OnycJiomys, Oryzomys, '' Eeithrodon'''' of our authors, Sigmodon 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17T 



Reise, ii. 1841, 99 (J,exi,cogaster).Mmculm, Raf., Am. Monthly 

 Mag. iii. 1818, 446 (leucoptii^).IIe!<peromyx, Watcrh., Zool. Voy. 

 Beag. 1839, 75 (established for the New World mice collectively, and 

 therefore equivalent to the tribe Sigmodontes as now understood). 

 Calomys, And. and Bach., Q. N. A. ii. 1851, 303 iauveolu><). 

 OnycJiomys, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 4r)8 {leucogaster, Maxim.). 0/'^- 

 zomys, Bd. op. et loc. cit. {palustvis Harl.). 



and Neotoma. Naturalists soon perceived the supergeneric value of this 

 assemblage, and sought to eliminate various groups under other generic 

 appellations. Waterhouse himself established a number of divisions which, 

 with some modifications, have been generally accepted. In North America, 

 Sigmodon and Neotoma^ with the so-called ^'Eeithrodo}},'' stand well apart 

 from He>iperomys ; in South America, Ilolocheilus and the true Reithrodon 

 seem perfectly distinct. The rest of the American mice (at least so far as 

 I know them) most probably fall under a restricted genus Ilesperoinys; 

 we have only to tie this name down to the strict value of a genus, pin it to 

 its type, and establish among the numerous species what subgeueric divi- 

 sions we can. From the circumstances of its founding it is difficult to say 

 what sliould be considered the type of IIe>iperomys. Waterhouse, in drawing 

 his comparisons between Mus and the New World mice, took M. rattus and 

 If. bimaculatus for such purpose ; we may properly therefore elect the 

 latter as technically the type. But when Waterhouse, in 1837, established 

 Calomya upon C. elegdns, he included in it hoih bimaculatm ?md gracilipes ; 

 and Eligmodontiii of F. Cuvier is strictly coequal. It becomes a question 

 whether one of these names should not stand in place of IIe^j}eroiirys as re- 

 stricted ; but as the latter is firmly established, as Calomys is by the same 

 author, and as Eligmodontia is no earlier, there may be no necessity for a 

 change. Resting then upon this strict application of Hes^peromys to such 

 species as binD/culatus, elegnm. and gnicilijyes, we may inquire how nearly, 

 if at all, the North American Vesper-mice agree with it. In his essay of 

 1857, Prof Baird elaborately details the characters of the South American 

 species, and", excluding Beithrodon and Ilolocheilus as full genera, makes 

 Heqjeromys to include three subgenera, viz., Calomys Waterh., ILibrotlirix 

 {z=Habrothrix plus Phyllotis, Waterh.) and Oxymieterus (=:Oxymicterus 

 plus Scupteromys, Waterh. ). Among North American forms, he establishes 

 three subgenera, Hesperomys, Onyehomys, and Oryzomys. I confirm these 

 last unequivocally ; the only point being whether the leucopus group, which 

 Baird left in Hesperomys, is not also a group subgenerically dilTereut from 

 that including elegans, bimaculatus, etc. All the North American mice 

 seem to be differentiated from those of South America by characters of 

 more than specific importance ; the closest approach that I am aware of 

 being found in the leucopus group, a species of which nuttalli, yellowish 

 underneath comes near Calomys. 



I propose to retain Hespei'omys for all the North as well as certain South 

 American species, and to divide the former into three subgenera; Vesperimus, 

 Mihi, Onychomys, Baird, and Oryzomys, Baird. 




nS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Subgenus Vesperimtjs, Cones. 



Stn. 3fmcului>, Raf., Am. Month. Mag. iii. 1818, 446 (used in connec- 

 tion with leucopus, but ineligible for obvious reasons.) Hestper- 

 omys, Baird (with exclusion of Onychomya and Oryzomyn^. 

 Calomys, Aud. and Bach. Q. N. A. ii. I80I, 303 (type aureolus ; not 

 of Waterhouse). 



Char. Teeth strictl}' sigmodont.' Back upper border of orbit 

 not beaded (compare Onychomys and Onjzomys). Coronoid not 

 attaining level of condyle. Cranial and dental characters in 

 general strictly those of Hesperomyn. Small but well-deA^eloped 

 cheek-ponches! Of medium and small size, lithe form and quick 

 movement. Eyes large, prominent. Snout pointed. PJars large, 

 rounded, thin, scantily and finely jnlous ; antitragus evident but 

 not valvular. Fore feet hardly or not half as long as the hinder; 

 palms naked ; fore claws not larger than the hinder ; digits slender, 

 3d and 4th subequal and longest, 2d and 5th successively much 

 shorter. Hind feet long, slender; soles 6-tuberculate, naked or 

 scant-furred on the posterior third ; 2d, 3d, and 4th subequal 

 and much the longest, 5th shorter; 1st shortest. Tail terete, 

 slender, closely hairy, ranging in length from as long as body 

 alone to a little longer than head and body. Pelade soft, close, 

 glossy, with but few longer bristly hairs ; feet and under parts 

 white or whitish ; body and tail more or less distinctly bicolor. 

 No woolly tufts of hair about the ears. Type, V. leucopus. 

 (Compare diagnoses of Onychomys and Oryzomys.) 



Obs. Among the multitude of species of tliis group ascribed to 

 North America, I can recognize as distinct but the few foUowin 

 having proven to my entire satisfaction the complete intergradu' 

 tion of the others. 



1. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) leucopus, (Raf.) Le Conte. 



Syn. Aynerican Field 3fouse or Bat, Penn., Syn. 1771, No. 303; Hist. 



Quad. 1781, No. 302 ; Arct. Zool. i. 1784, 131. 

 American Wandering Mouse, Barton, Med. and Surg. Journ. Phila. i 



1805, p. 31. 

 Mus sylvatieus, var., Erxl., Syst. Av. i. 1775, 390 (based on "New 



York var." of Pennant). 

 JTus sylvKticus, var. noveboraceiuia, Fisch., Syn. 1829, 318 (the same). 

 Mus noBcboracetisis, Selys-Longch., Etudes Microm. 1839, 07. 

 Mus agrarius, var. americanus, Kerr's Linn. 1793, 231 (based on 



Pennant). 



g 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1T9 



Mus agrarius, Godmau, Am. Nat. Hist. i. 3tl ed. 1800, 316 (also in the 



earlier editions). 

 Cricekis myoides, Gapper, Zool. Journ. v. 1830, 204, pi. 10 (Canada). 

 IIef(i)eromys ^nyoides, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 472 (Vermont, based on 



Gapper'). 

 Arvicola emmonsii, DeKay, Eep. Quad. Mass. 1840, 61. 

 [ Musculus leucopus, Raf., Amer. Month. Mag. iii. 1818, 446. 

 Mus leucopus, Desm., Mamm. ii. 1822, 307 ; and of authors. 

 Hesperomys leucopus^ Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1852, 418, and of authors. 

 Hesperomys maniculatus, Wagn., Wieg. Arch. ii. 1843, 141, and ii. 



1845, 148; Abh. Aliad. Wissen., v. 1848, 316 (Labrador). 

 Hesperomys p>olionotux, Wagn., Wieg. Arcli. ii. 1843, 52 (Georgia). 

 Hesperomys campestris, Le C, P. A, N. S. P. vi. 1853, 413 (New 



Jersey). 

 Hcspermys texanus, Woodli., P. A. N. S. P. \\. 1853, 243 (Texas). 

 Hesperomys cognatus, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 442 (Soutliern 

 States). 



Hesperomys gracilis, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 442 (Northwest 



States). 

 Hesperomys austerus, Bd., P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 336 (Washington 



Territory). 

 Hesperomys boylii, Bd., P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 335 (California). 

 Hesperomys gamheli, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 464 (Pacific Coast, U. S.), 

 fHesperomys indiumis, Maxim., Arch. f. Naturg. xviii. 1862, 111 {fide 



Allen). 



\_Note.~1\\Q above synonymy is exclusive of the several geographical 

 varieties of ttiis species which may be recognized.] 



Hah. North America generall3\ 



la. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) leucopus gossypinus (Le C). 



Syn. Hesperomys gossypitius, Le Conte, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1853, 411 

 (Georgia). 

 Hypudceus gossypinus, Le C, McMurtrie's Cuvier, i. 434, App. 



Hah. South Atlantic States. 



lb. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) leucopus sonoriensis (Le C). 



Syn. ? Mus leucopus. Rich., Zool. Journ. iii. 1818, and F. B. A. i. 1829, 

 142. 

 Hesperomys sonoriensis, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1853, 413 (Sonora). 

 Hesperomys sonoriensis, var. nehrascensis, Bd. M. N. A. 462, in text. 



Hah. Interior of North America, west of the Mississippi, from 

 Arctic Regions to Mexico (usuallj^ occupying this range to the 



' The presence of cheek pouches, supposed to remarkably distinguish 

 this animal, I have determined in all the species of Vesperimus examined. 

 It is an interesting question whether they also occur in South American 

 forms. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



exclusion of typical leucopus, but associated with it iu some 

 localities), 



1c. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) leucopus eremicus (Bd.). 



Syn. Iletperoinys ereiiiicus, Bd. M. N. A. 1857, 479. Coues, Quad, of 

 Arizona, Am. Nat. i. 398. 



Hab. Yalleys of the Colorado and Gila Rivers. 

 Obs. The soles in this variety, and in species Xo. 4, are quite 

 naked, but merely as an incident of their desert habitat. 



2. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) aureolus, (Aud. & Bach.) Wagn. 



Syn. 3fus [Calomys) aureolus, And. & Bach., J. A. N. S. P. vi. 1842, 303 ; 



Q. N. A. ii. 1851, 303, pi. 95. 

 Hesperomys aureolus, Wagn., Wieg. Arch. ii. 1843, 51. 

 ? Arvicola nuttalli, Harlan, Am. Mouth. Journ. 1833, 446 ; Med. and 



Phys. Res. 1835, 55, pi. 00. 

 Hesperomys mittalh', Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 467. , 



Hab. Central and Southern States. 



3. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) micMganensis, (Aud. & Bach.) Wagn. 



Syn. Mus michiganouis, Aud. & Bach. J. A. N. S. Phila. viii. 1843, 304; 

 Quad. N. A. iii. 1854, 326. 

 Hesperom,ys micMganensis, Wagn., Wieg. Arch. ii. 1843, 51. 

 Mm bairdii, Hoy & Keun., U. S. Patent Office Rep. Agric. for 1856, 

 (1857) 93, pi. xi. 



Hab. Upper Mississippi Yalley, especially Illinois, Michigan, 

 and Wisconsin. 



4. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) californicus, (Gambel) Baird. 



Syn, Mus californicus, Gamb., P. A. N. S. P. iv. 1848, 78 (Monterey). 

 Hesperomys californicus, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 478. 

 Hesperomys parasiticus. Cooper's MSS., Bd., op. cit. 479 (in text). 



Hab. Southern and Lower California. 



5. Hesperomys (Vesperimus') aztecus, De Sauss. 



Syn. Hesperomys aztecus, De Sauss., R. M. Z. 1860, p. 00 (p. 22 of the re- 

 print). 



Hab. "Mexico." Cape St. Lucas. 



Obs. This species appears to belong strictly to the Vesjjerimus 

 group. It is about tlie size and form of V. leucopus, but the tail is 

 nearly naked and scarcely bicolor, while the colors are notably 

 different ; they differ just as those of Neotoma ferruginea do from 



' I have not determined the presence of cheek pouches in this or the suc- 

 ceeding species ; in all other respects they are truly Vesperimus, and they 

 doubtless possess them. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



those of N. Jloridana, in rich rusty-red on the sides and partly 

 dusky metatarsus. 



To the foregoing list I append the description of an apparently 

 new species of this group: 



6. Hesperomys (Vesperimus) melanophrys, Coues, n. s. 



Syn. f ? Hesperomys mexicanus, De Sauss., R. M. Z. 1860, p. 00 (p. 20 of 

 reprint), pi. ix. figs. 1, la. 



Descr. from No. 10,183, Mus. Smiths., Sta. Efigenia, Sumichrast.' 

 General aspect of a species of the leucojnis group. Large ; nose 

 to eye 0.62 (inches and hundredths), to ear 1.12, to occiput 1.40, 

 to tail 4.15 ; tail 5.00 ; fore foot 0.42; hind foot 1.04; ear 0.T8 above 

 notch. Tail a little longer than head and body, slender, scant-haired* 

 Absolute and relative proportions of feet and digits as in V. leu- 

 cojnis ; soles hair^' on posterior third. Ears large, leafy, ap- 

 parently naked, really closely pilous. Whiskers reaching to or 

 beyond the shoulder. Skull strictly as in V. leucopuH (palate 

 ending opposite last molars, not far behind it as in Mus, Oryzomys, 

 etc.), but not quite so thin and papery, and developing a slight 

 bead on the orbital border, as in the stouter mice generally. 

 Color above giving the general impression of a gray mouse, rather 

 than a red mouse with darker dorsal area as in leucopiis and 

 aztecus. It is gra}', brightened with fulvous, slightly darker 

 along the back, more decidedly fulvous laterally, and everywhere 

 with a peculiar slight glaucous or hoary shade. Head noticeably 

 purer gray; eye encircled with a black ring in marked contrast, 

 the edges of the lids, and a little anteocular spot, being jet black. 

 (This suggests the specific name; I have seen nothing like it else- 

 where.) Color below, pure white, the plumbeous roots of the 

 hairs, however, giving a slight grayish cast. Line of demarcation 

 of this white with the color of the upper parts everywhere abrupt. 

 Outside of fore leg colored to the very wrist, but back of the hand 

 white. Hind leg also colored to and a little beyond the anklei 

 forming a definite dark spot on the base of the metatarsus, the 

 remaining five-sixths of the foot being pure white. Tail above, 

 like the back; below, gray not white; and the line of demarca- 

 tion, though evident, not sharp. No yellowish or fulvous tinge 

 anywhere on the under parts {^^ mexicanus''^ of De Saussure is said 

 to be yellowish on the chin and breast). Skull 1.20 long by 0.64 

 broad. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ohs. This may just possibly be H. mexicanus of De Saussure, 

 but I cannot so identify it, and prefer to err on the safe side, if at 

 all. Besides tiie above specimen, I have others from Tehuacan 

 and Tehuantepec. It is nothing like any of the foregoing North 

 American species. A female shows three pair of mammae one 

 axillary, two inguinal. 



Subgenus Onychomys, Baird. 



Syn. irypud(PACs, sp., Maxim., Reise, ii. 1841, 99, nee cmct. Mus, sp., Aud. 

 & Bach., Q. N. A. ii. 1851, 327 {missoiin'eiisis), HeKperomys subg. 

 Onydiomys^ Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 458 (tj'pe Hypudmus leucogaster, 

 Maxim.). 



Diag. Skull strictly' as in Hesperomys (Vesperimus), but mo- 

 lars larger with sharper saliencies and re-entrances. Coronoid 

 attaining level of condyle. External form somewhat approaching 

 the arvicoline in stoutness, and in shortness of tail and ears. 

 Tail in tj-pe of the genus not one-half the length of the bod}' 

 alone little if any longer than the head, very thick and tapering 

 to an obtuse point. Ears about as in the arvicoline genus Evoto- 

 mys (Hypudseus of Baird). Fore feet very large, f to ^ as long 

 as the hinder, with long, little curved, almost fossorial claws, 

 longer than those of the hind feet. Soles quadrituberculate only 

 densely furry to the tubercles. White beneath, as in typical 

 Vespe7-imus. A strongly differentiated form ! To the type of this 

 section (Hypudseus leucogaster of Maximilian, afterward Mus 

 missouriensis of Audubon) I add a peculiar variety more proba- 

 bly a second species. The two may be thus distinguished: 



a. Tail much less than half the head aud body, scarcely twice the hind foot. 

 Fore foot more than half the liiud foot. Ear about 0.50 high. Be- 

 neath snow-white ; above mouse -browu with darker dorsal area. 



LEUCOGASTEK. 



h. Tail nearly half the head and body, about 3| times the hind foot. Fore 

 foot only half the hind foot. Ear about 0.75 high; beneath tawny 

 white ; above brownish fulvous without darker dorsal area. 



(var ?) TORRIDUS. 

 7. Hesperomys (Onycliomys) leucogaster, (Maxim.) Baird. 

 Syn. Hypudaus leucogaster, Maxim., Reise, ii. 1841, 99 (Fort Clark). 

 Hefiperomys {Onycliomys) leucogaster, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 480. 

 (Nebraska.) 



Mus missouriensis, Aud. & Bach., Q. N. A. ii. 1851, 327, pi. 100. 

 (Fort Union, Montana.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lS3 



Hah. Interior of United States, between Mississippi and Kock}" 

 Mountains. Upper Missouri. Red River of the North {Gouea). 

 Wyoming. Kansas. Doubtless of more extended, but as yet un- 

 ascertained range. 



S. Hesperomys (Onychomys) torridus, Coues. 



Diag. Resembling O.leucogaste?' ; tail longer, ears larger, soles 

 less hairj', fore claws weaker. Coloration luucli more yellowish ; 

 no darker dorsal area ; snout, feet, and all under parts tawny- 

 white ; dusk^' stripe on top of tail ver}- narrow, not reaching the 

 tip. Length of head and body 3.15 ; of tail 2.00 ; of fore foot 

 0.40; hind foot 0.80 ; ear about 0.75 above notch. Only two pair 

 (inguinal) of teats discovered. (Type No. 9886, Mus. S. I.) 



Hab. Arizona. ' 



Subgenus Obyzomys, Baird. 



Syn. 3fus, sp., Harl., Am. Journ. Sci. 18^7. Hesperomi/s, sp., Wagn. , 

 Suppl. Schreber, 1843, and authors. Arvicola, Aud. & Bach., Q. N. 

 A. ill. IQrid.Onjzomy.^ (suljg.), Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 458 (type 3Iuh 

 2?ttlustri><, Harl.). 



Char. Orbits beaded. Anteorbital foramen nearly circular 

 above (somewhat as in Jaculua) continued slit-wise below, where 

 narrower than in VesperimuH ; the maxillary plate bounding it 

 not produced into a pointed process (compare Sigmodon.) Palate 

 produced behind last molars a deep pit on either hand, Coro- 

 noid attaining level of condyle. Hind legs short, but feet very 

 large, with obliquely set toes (much as in Fiber) in evident adap- 

 tation to aquatic habits. Soles perfectly naked, granular, with 

 one long, narrow, postero-internal tubercle (as in 3Ius) and five 

 small ones. Toes wnth evident basal webbing; very unequal in 

 length, the fifth reaching to the penultimate joint of the fourth 

 (compare Sigmodon). Fore feet not half as long as the hinder; 

 palms perfectly naked. Ears small, little overtopping the fur, 

 hairy both sides, with a flufty tuft in the concavity. Nasal pads 

 more evident than in other sections. Tail long, about equalling 

 the head and body, scant haired ; the dermal scales and vertebral 

 rings evident. Fur glossj', but coarse and hispid. Larger than 

 any other N. American species of Hesyeromys ; general aspect of 

 Sigmodon or even 3Ii(s i)roper. 




181 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



9- Hesperomys (Oryzomys) palustris, (Harlan) Baird. 



Syn. Mm paluHvis Harl., Am. Journ. ScL, xxxi. 1837, 38G (New Jersey). 



Hesperomys puluatris, Wagn., Suppl. Sclireber, iii. 1843, 543. 



Hesperomys {Oryzomys) palustris^ Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 483. 



Arvicola oryzivora, Aud. & Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1858, 214, pi. 144, f. 3. 



Hab. South Atlantic and Gulf States, north to New Jersey. 

 Kansas! (Goss). Tchuantepec (>S'i<77u'c7i?-a.s(!). Jamaica? 



Genus IV. OCHETODON, Coues, n. g. 



Syn. Mus, sp., Aud. & Bach. Hesperomys^ sp., Wagner. Reitlirodon, 

 Le Conte, P. A. K S. P. 1853, 413, and Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 447, 

 hut not of Waterhouse. 



Diag. Form murine (general appearance of 3Ius musculus). 

 Size minute. Skull as in Vesperimus ; coronoid not attaining 

 level of condyle. Tail about as long as head aud body. Upper 

 incisors grooved (^unique character among N. American Ilurinx). 

 Front upper molars with four roots instead of three, as in Hespe- 

 romys. 



Obs. The occurrence in North America of sigmodont mice with 

 sulcate incisors was first noticed in 1841 by Audubon aud Bach- 

 man, who described 3Ius humilis. Their animal was soon referred 

 to Hesperomys b^^ Wagner. But the peculiarity of the upper 

 incisors was overlooked until 1853, when Maj. Le Conte took up 

 the point and referred a species to the South American genus 

 Reitlirodon a course followed by Prof. Baird in 1857, when the 

 latter described three supposed new species, R. moiitainis, mega- 

 lofis, and longicmida. But sulcation of the incisors is almost the 

 onl}' character that Ochetodon shares with Reitlirodon ; the two 

 genera are otherwise widely difterent.' 



Beithrodon, Waterh., P. Z. S. 1837, 29 ; Zool. Voy. Beag. 1839. Type 

 R. cuniculoides. 



DUig. Upper incisors sulcate. Rostral portion of the skull large in proportion to 

 the cranial, producing a high, convex forehead; zygomatic width of skull about its 

 length ; interorbital portion narrow ; posterior nares contracted from close approxi- 

 mation of the pterygoids ; palate with lateral paired fossse, and ending nearly opposite 

 or beyond the last molar; incisive foramina very long, extending to or beyond the 

 first molar ; coronoid process small and exflected ; condylar narrow and very oblique ; 

 descending process large, subquadrate, the emargination between this and the con- 

 dyle deep. Size large ; form stout and compact ; head broad and arched ; eyes large 

 and prominent ; ears moderate, pilous ; soles hairy behind j lateral toes subequal and 

 extremely short ; tail short, about one-half the head and body, moderately hairy. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Analysis, of Species of Ochetodon. 



A. Tail shorter than head and body (at most barely as long). 



Hind feet under 0.70 long (usually 0.55 to 0.65). humihs. 



B. Tail longer than head and body. 



Hind feet under 0.70 (exceptionally = 0.70). longicauda. 



Hind feet over 0.70 (rarely, if ever = 0.70). mexicana, 



1. Ochetodon humilis, (Aud. and Bach.) Coues. 



Syn. Mm Jiumilis, Aud. and Bach., P. A. N. S. P. i. 1841, 97; J. A. N. S. 



P., viii. 1842, 300 ; Q. N. A., ii. 1851, 103, pi. Ixv. (South Atlantic 



States.) 

 Hesperomys Tiumilis, Wagner, Wieg. Arch. 1843, 51. 

 Reithrodon humilis, Bd., M. N. A., 1857, 448. 

 Mus Ucontii, Aud. and Bach., J. A. N. S. P. viii. 1842, 307 ; Q. N. 



A. iii. 1854, 324 (no fig.). (South Carolina.) 

 Hesperomys lecontii, Wagn., Wieg. Arch. 1843, 51. 

 Reithrodon leco)itii, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1853, 418. 



Most of which is widely different from -what obtains in Ochetodon, the 

 grooving of tlie incisors being merely a coincidence. Nor am I satisfied 

 that the three supposed species of Reithrodon are sti-icth' congeneric. They 

 differ among themselves in cranial as well as external characters, to an 

 extent at least warranting subgeneric separation. In respects of palatal 

 structure and form of the anterior zygomatic root, there is a curious paral- 

 lelism with the same points in Sigmodon and Oryzomys. I will tabulate 

 some of the characters, as follows : 



Reithrodon proper. (Tj'pe R. ciiniculoides.) Anterior root of zygoma 

 deeply emarginated in front. Palate ending much behind the molar series, 

 and showing a median ridge between lateral paired excavations. Ptery- 

 goid fossfe deeply excavated, and these bones closely approximated. In- 

 cisive foramina reaching beyond the first molars. Condylar process of 

 mandible concave internally ; descending process rounded off inferiorly ; 

 coronoid process very oblique. Species R. cuniculoides, Waterh., P. Z. S. 

 1837, 30, and Zool. Voy. Beag. 1839, pt. ii. p. 69, pi. xxvi. (animal), pi. 

 xxxiii. figs. 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e (teeth), pi. xxxiv. figs. 2a, 2b, 2c (skull), from 

 Patagonia; and a second supposed species i2. typicus, Id., P. Z. S. 1837,30; 

 Voy. Beag. 1839, pt. ii. p. 71, pi. xxxiii. fig. 4a (teeth), from La Plata. 



Euneomys, Coues, n. subg. (Type Reithrodon chinchilloides.) Anterior 

 root of zygoma nearly straight in front. Palate ending nearly opposite the 

 last molars, but slightly ridged or excavated. Pterygoid fossre shallow ; 

 these bones less approximated. Incisive foramen only reaching to first 

 molars. Condylar process of mandible flat internally ; descending process 

 angular; coronoid process nearl}' vertical. Species i2. {E.) chinchilloides, 

 Waterh., Zool. Voy. Beag. 1839, pt. ii. p. 72, pi. xxvii. (animal), pi. xxxiv. 

 figs. 20a, 20b, 20c, 20d, 20e, 20f (skull and teeth), from Straits of Magellan. 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



? Mus enroll nensis, And. and Bach., J. A. N. S. P. viii. 1842, 306 ; Q. 



K A. iii. 1854, 332. (South Carolina.) 

 ? Hesperomys cnrolinensis, Wagn., Wieg. Arch. ii. 1853, 51. 

 ? Reithrodon carolinensis, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 453. 

 Reithrodon megalotis, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 451 ; Rep. Mex. B. Surv., 



ii. pt. ii. 1859, p. 43, pi. vii. fig. 4 a-c, pi. xxiv. fig. 4 a-g. (Sonora.) 



Hab. United States, southerly. South Carolina to Texas. 

 Kansas. Missouri. Iowa. Nebraska. Utah. Sonora. 



2. Ochetodon longicauda, (Baird) Coues. 



Syn. Reithrodon longicauda, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 451. ? Tomes, P. Z. S. 

 1861,284. (Guatemala.) 



Hab. California (? south thence to Guatemala). 



3. Ochetodon mexicanus, (De Sauss.) Coues. 



Syn. Reitlirodon mexicanus, De Sauss., R. and M. Z. 1860, p. (p. 27 of 

 reprint). Tomes, P. Z. S. 1861, 284. (Guatemala.) 



Hab. Mexico. Guatemala. Louisiana ? 



4? Ochetodon montanus, (Bd.) Coues. (sp. proband.) 



Syn. Reithrodon montanus, Bd., P. A. N. S. P. vii. 1855, 335 ; M. N. A. 



1857, 449, pi. liv. fig. No. 1306 (teeth). (Rocky Mts., lat. 390.) 

 5 ? Ochetodon sumichrasti, (De Saus.) Coues. (sp. proband.) 



Syn. Reitlirodon siimichrasti, De Saus., R. M. Z. 1861, 3. (Mexico.) (Un- 

 known to me.) 



Subfamily Arvicolin^. 



Molars normally rootless, prismatic, with serrate peripherj' and 

 flat crowns. Root of under incisor causing ijrotuberance on in- 

 side of jaw at or near notch between condjde and descending pro- 

 cess. Descending process of mandible hamular, attaining level of 

 molars. Corouoid a long stout hook. Anterior root of zj'goma 

 not obviously nicked. Palate highly arched. 



Genus V. EVOTOMYS, Coues, n. g. 



Syn. Arvicola, sp., Auct. Myodes, Selys-Lougch., Etudes de Microm. 

 1839, 87 (not of 'Ps\\a.%).Hypudwus, Kej-s. and Bias., Wirbelth. 

 1842 (type A. glareola ; not of lUiger, which includes Mus lemmus, 

 amphibins, etc.). Hyjnidceus of Baird, M. N. A., 1857, 513, 515, 

 518 (type A. gapperi). Evotomys, Coues (type 3Iu.s rutilus. Pall.). 



Diag. Dentition arvicoline, in flat-topped prismatic molars, but 

 murine in rooting of the molars (molars only rooted here among 

 Arvicolinse). Coronoid process of lower jaw not attaining level 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



of tlie cond^yle (unique among Arvicolinae). Bony palate ending 

 in a straight flat shelf opposite middle molars, the whole space 

 between last molars thus left open. General form arvicoline, but 

 ears distinctly overtopping the fur as in Min-inse. A strong 

 genus, linking the two subfamilies. There are many peculiarities 

 besides these given. 



1. Evotomys rutilus, (Pall.) Coues. 



Syn. Mus rutilus. Pall., K Sp. Quad. Glir. 1778, 246, pi. xiv. B. 

 Arvicola gapperi, Dall, Alaska and its Resources, 1870, 577. 



Hab. Arctic, circumpolar. Southward in this country this spe- 

 cies shades into the following variet}' : 



la. Evotomys rutilus, var. gapperi, (Vig.) Coues. 



Syn. Arvicola grippei'i, Vig. Zool. Journ. v. 1830, 204, pi. 9. (Canada.) 

 Arvicola {Hypudaus) gapijeri, Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 518. 

 Arvicola fulva, Aud. and Bach., J. A. N. Phil. viii. 1842, 295. 



(Name preoccupied.) 

 Arvicola dekayi, Aud. and Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 287 (same as 

 their A. fulva of 1842). Excl. syn. '' oneida DeKay" which belongs 

 to A. riparius. 



Hab. Northern frontier of IJnited States, from Atlantic to 

 Pacific, and adjoining belt of British America. South to Massa- 

 chusetts. 



Obs. This species and its variet}^ are distinguished at a glance 

 by the prominent ears and chestnut coloration. 



Genus VI. ARVICOLA, Lacep., emend. 



Syn. Mus, sp., Linn., Syst. Nat. i. 1766, et auct. nntiq. Mures ciinicn- 

 larii, Pall., N. Sp. Glir. 1778, Ti.Lemmus, Linck, Fischer, et al. 

 Myodes, Pall, Zoog. R. A. i. 1811, 172 (not Myodes of Selys-L., 

 1839, which = 7/?/^j/(ffe(<s, Keys, and 'E\&.^. = Evotomys, Coues). 

 Arvicola, Lacepede, Tabl. 1803, et auct. recent, (includes amphibius 

 and arvalis). Hypudceus, 111., Prod. 1811 (not of Keys, and Bias., 

 nor of Baird. Includes lemmus, ampMbius and arvalis), Myonomes, 



Rafinesque, (type "Wilson's Meadow 1sIo\\s,q'' = Arvicola 



pennsylvanica of Ord.). Psammomys, Le C, Ann. Lye. N. Y. 

 1829, 132 (type pinetorum; not oiHueppel). Pitymys, McMurtrie, 

 ed. Cuvier, i. 1831, 434 (type A. pinetorum). Hemiotomys, Selys-L., 

 Etudes, 1839, 85 (anijiJubius, terrestris, etc.). Microtus, Selys-L., 

 Etudes, 1839, m.Pinemys, Lesson, Nouv. Tabl. R. A. 1842, 12 

 (type pinetorum). Hemiotomys, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 515 (type 

 A. riparius, Ord.). Pedomys, Bd., op. cit. 517 (type A. austerns, 

 Le C). Ghilotus, Bd., op. cit. 516 (type oregonus, Bach.). 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Obs. The limits I would set to Armcolii ma^' be gathered from 

 the foregoing, though doubtless some S3'non3niis, and, perhaps, 

 some tenable subgeneric names, of old world forms, have escaped 

 me. Without, therefore, writing out the full diagnosis, I will 

 simply mention characters which separate Arvicola as I accept it 

 from the other North American Arvicolinee : 



Molars normally rootless, perennial {cf. Enotomys). Folds of 

 enamel fusing at the re-entrances {cf. Evofomys). Molars viewed 

 from above about equally serrate on eitiier side (cf. ITyodes, 

 Synaptomys). Upper molars all subequal in length and breadth 

 {cf. Myodes, Synaptomys). Middle lower molar of 4-5 prisms, 

 the last a transverse loop, the rest alternating lateral triangles {cf. 

 Evotomys). Back lower molar of not more than 3 prisms seriatim 

 {cf. Synaptomys., Myodes)., each malving a transverse loop. Gene- 

 ral molar pattern, as to number of prisms to a tooth, as shared 

 by most Arvicolinge {cf. Guniculus). Upper incisors plane (cf. 

 Synaptomys). Roots of under incisors running up the condylar 

 process forming a ridge that only subsides near the notch between 

 condyle and descending process {cf. Synajytomys, 3Iyodes, Guni- 

 culus). Palate not ending behind in a flat straight-edged shelf 

 (cf. Evotomys^ 3Iyodes, Guniculus). Coronoid process as high as 

 cond^-le {cf. Evotomys). Ears moderately developed (cf Myodes., 

 Guniculus)., but not overtopping the fur (cf. Evotomys). Tail 

 longer than foot {cf. Myodes., Guniculus). Fore claws of normal 

 size and growth (cf. Guniculus). The species do not turn white 

 in winter (cf. Guniculus). Many other details could be adduced. 



The North American species fall in four sections or subgenera, 

 as established by Baird. I use Myoclonies, Raf., for the section 

 for which Baird employed Hemiotomys., Sel3's, as none of our sec- 

 tions seem exactly the same as any one of Europe. Pedomys and 

 Pitymys are like eacli other in skull and dentition, but otfer ex- 

 ternal peculiarities. The sections may be thus analyzed : 



A. jNIyonomes. Back upper molar with 3 external triangles and a pos- 



terior crescent. Middle upper molar with 3 internal triangles. Front 

 lower molar with 3 internal and 3 or 3 external lateral triangles. 

 Ears unrimmed in front. Soles 6-tuberculate. Fore claws not longer 

 than the hinder ones. Tail about ^ the length of head and bod}', or 

 more. Pelage ordiuar3^ Size maximum and medium. 



B. Chilotus. Back upper molar with only 1 external triangle and a pos- 



terior trefoil. ]Middle upper molar with 1 internal triangle. Front 

 lower molar with 3 internal and 3 or 3 external triangles (as in 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Myonomes.). Ear with a rim in front of meatus, the anterior and 

 posterior roots of tlie auricle there meeting. Soles 5-tuberculate (?). 

 Fore claws not larger than the hinder. Tail about ^ the liead and 

 body. Pelage ordinary. Size minimum. 



C. Pedomys. Back and middle upper molars as in the last. Front lower 

 molar with only 2 internal and 1 external triangle. Ear unrimmed. 

 Soles 5-tuberculate. Fore claws not larger than the hinder. Tail ^ 

 the head and body, or rather less. Pelage ordinary. Size medium. 



I). PiTYMYS. Molars all as in Pedomys. Ears unrimmed. Soles 5-tuber- 

 culate. Fore claws larger than the hinder. Tail al)out \ the head 

 and bod}^, or less. Pelage dense, silky, mole-like. Size small. 



Subgenus Myonomes, Raf. 



Syn. Arvieola of most American writers. Arvicohi., A, IIemiotomy^ 

 Baird, M. N. A. 1857, 515 (type riparius. Not of Selys-L.). 

 Myonomes, Raf. (type M. pratensis, Raf., based on "Wil- 

 son's Meadow Mouse" = A. penusylvanica, Ord. = A. riparius, 

 Ord.). 



I. Arvicola (Myoaomes) riparius, Ord. 



Syn. Cavipagnol or Meadow Mouse of Pennsylvania., Warden, Descr. 



U. S., V. 625. 

 Meadoto Mouse, Wils., Am. Orn., vi. pi. 50, f. 3. 



Arvicola pennsylvanica, Ord, Guthrie's Geog. 2d Am. ed. ii. 1815, 292 

 (based on the foregoing). Harlan, Fn. Amer. 1825, 144 (in part; 

 quotes Ord, but (S.e?,Q,v\\ies pinetorum) . 

 Arvicola riparius, Ord, J. A. N. S. P. iv. 1825, 305. (Philadelphia.) 

 Arvicola ripariris longipilis, Kenn., Agric. Rep. U. S. Patent OlEce, 



1856, 304. (West Northfield, 111. ; in winter pelage.) 

 Arvicola xanthognatlw, Harlan, Fn. Amer. 1825, 136 (also of God- 

 man, Say, DeKay, and Linsley, but not of Leach nor of Richardson). 

 Arvicola alborufescens, Emmons, Rep. Quad. Mass. 1840, 60 (albino). 

 Arvicola hirsutus, Emmons, I. c. 



Arvicola nasuta, Bachm., J. A. N. S. Phila. viii. 1842, 296. (Massa- 

 chusetts.) 

 Arvicola oneida, DeKay, N. Y. Fn. i. 1842, 88, pi. xxiv. f. 1. (Xew 



York.) 

 Arvicola rufescens, DeKaj', op. cit. 85, pi. xxii. f. 1. (New York.) 

 Arvicola occidentalis, Peale, Mamm. U. S. Ex. Ex. 1848, 45. (Paget 



Sound. ) 

 Arvicola ealifornica, Peale, op. cit. 46. (California.) 

 Arvicola montana, Peale, op. cit. 44. (California.) 

 Arvicola edux, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1853, 405. (California.) 

 Arvicola borealis, Le C, op. cit. 407. (Rhode Island.) (Not of Rich.) 

 Arvicola trowbridgei, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 529 (in text). (California.) 

 Arvicola longirosiris, Bd., op. cit. 530. (California.) 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Arvicola modesta, Bd., op. cit. 535, (Rocky Mts.) (Very young.) 

 Arvicola rufidorsum^ Bel., op. cit. 526. (Mass.) (Reddish specimen.) 

 Arvicola ireioeri, Bd., op. cit. 525 (Muskeget, Mass. ; bleached insular 

 race). 



la. Arvicola (riparius var. ?) borealis, Rich. ? 



Syn. f Arvicola borealis, Rich., Zool. Journ. 1828, 517 ; F. B. A. i. 1829, 

 127. Also of Aud. and Bach., and of Baird. 



Eab. Northwestern America. 



Obs. This and the two succeeding species are presented provi- 

 sionally. 



2. Arvicola (Myonomes) townsendii, Bach. 



Syn. Arvicola iownsendii, Bach., J. A. N. S. P., viii. 1839, 63, and of 

 subsequent writers. 



Hah. Oregon and Washington Territories. 



3. Arvicola (Myonomes) xanthognatlius, Leach. 



Syn. Arvicola xanthognatlia, Leach, Zool. Misc. i. 1814, 60, pi. 26. 

 Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 122. Aud. and Bach., Q. K A. iii. 1853, 

 67, pi. 125. Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 552. Dall, Alaska and its Re- 

 sources, 1870, 577. Whether of Sabine ? but certainly not of any 

 author treating of United States species. 



Hab. British America. 



Obs. In its typical condition the animal is unmistakable in its 

 immense size (up to 8 inches long) and chestnut cheeks. There 

 remain, liowever, some points to be elaborated before the relation- 

 ship of the several forms of BIyonomes can be considered estab- 

 blished. 



Subgenus Chilotus, Baird. 



Syn. Chilotus, Baird, 1857. Type, A. oregoni. Bach. 



4. Arvicola (Chilotus) oregonus, Bach. 



Syn. Arvicola orcgoni, Bach., J. A. N. S. P., viii. 1839, 60. Aud. and 

 Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1858, 232, pi. clxvii. f. 3. Bd., M. N. A., 1857, 

 537. 



Hab. Oregon. 



Subgenus Pedomys, Baird. 



Syn. Pedomys, Bd., M. N. A. 851, 517. Type, A. austerus, LeC. 



5. Arvicola (Pedomys) austerus, Le C. 



Syn. Arvicola austertis, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1853, 405. (Wiscon- 

 sin.) 

 Arvicola {Pedomys) austerus, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 532, pi. liv. (Wis- 

 consin and Missouri to Louisiana.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



Arvicola {Pedomys) cinnamoma, Bd. cp. cit. 541, pi. liv. (Minnesota.) 

 Arvicola {Pedomys) haydeni, Bd., o^;. cit. 543. (Nebraska.) 



Hah. Western States and adjoining Territories, especially Illi- 

 nois, Missouri, and Michigan. Kansas. Louisiana. 



oa. Arvicola (Pedomys) austerus, var. curtatus, Cope. 



Syn. Arvicola curiata, Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Phila. 1868, 2. (Owen's Valley, 

 California.) 



Hab. United States, west of the Mississippi. California. Colo- 

 rado. Kansas and Nebraska, where becoming mixed up with true 

 austeints. 



Obs. In comparing his supposed new species with "^. modesta,^^ 

 Prof. Cope was misinformed as to its affinities. It is a true 

 Pedomys. not in the least like any style of Myonomes, as I ascer- 

 tain by inspection of the type specimen. Its extreme modifica- 

 tion is peculiar in the small size, and very short tail (less than the 

 head) : it sliades directly into ordinary austerus. 



Subgenus Pitymys, McMurtrie. 



Syn. Psammomys, Le C, 1829, nee Buppel (type pinetorum) . Pitymys., 

 McMurt., 1831 (same type). Pinernys, Less, 1831 (same type). 



6. Arvicola (Pitymys) pinetorum, Le Conte. 



Syn. Arvicola penn.^yloanica, Harl., Fn. Amer. 1825, 144, in part; the 



descr. but not the synon. {not of authors). 

 Psammomys pinetorum, Le C, Ann. Lye. N. Y. iii. 1829, 132, pi. ii. 

 Pitymys pinetorum, McM., Am. ed. Cuvier, i. 1831, 434. 

 Pinemys pinetorum, Less., Nouv. Tabl. R. A. 1842, 12. 

 Arvicola pinetorum, Aud. and Bach., Q. N". A. ii. 1851, 216, pi. Ixxx. 



(excl. syn. '^ oneida DeKay.") 

 Arvicola {Pitymys) pinetorum, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 544. 

 Arvicola scalopao/des, Aud. and Bach., J. A. N. S. Phila. viii. 1842, 



299 (Long Island). 

 Arvicola apellu, Le C, P. A. N. S. P. vi. 1853, 405. (Pennsylvania.) 



6a.'? Arvicola (Pitymys) pinetorum, var. quasiater, Coues, n. v. 



Diag. Subgeneric characters of Pitymys (skull not seen), and 

 somewhat resembling P. pinetorum (particularly the large dark 

 stjde formally called scalopsoides). Rich glossy blackish, ap- 

 pearing quite black at first sight, but this color warmed into a 

 slight auburn shade by uniform admixture of dusky chestnut or 

 chocolate brown. No markings anywhere; color of the upper parts 

 changing on the sides insensibly into blackish-ash or dark plumbe- 

 ous of the under parts, which are slightly hoary. Tail like back 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF 



above, indistinctly paler below. Fur siiort, close, of so rich silky 

 lustre that in some lights an appreciable purplish or coppery iri- 

 descence is seen. General build of 2yineto7-um; rather stouter, 

 larger; nose to eye 0.50 ; to ear 1.05 ; to tail 4..33-4.45 ; tail verte- 

 bra 0.10 ; with hairs 0.80 ; height of ear in front 0.45 ; palm 0..33 ; 

 sole 0.66. 



Hah. Mexico. (Xalapa, De Oca, No. 3524, Mus. S. I., type of 

 the species ; Tuxpango, Sumichrast, No. 7006, Mus. S. I.) 



Obs. This peculiar field mouse, which may prove entirely dis- 

 tinct from pinetorum, is specially interesting in coming from a 

 region where the genus was long supposed to be not represented. 

 I have never seen any other Arvicola from south of the United 

 States, nor is there, to my knowledge, but a single one hitherto 

 described from so low a latitude, on this hemisphere at least. This 

 is Arvicola {Hemiotomys) mexicanus^ De Sauss., R, M. Z. 1861, 

 3, a species apparently allied to A. riparius. 



Genus VII. SYNAPTOMYS, Baird. 

 Stn. Synaptomys, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, 558, in text under Myodes, and p. xHv. 



Diag. Superior incisors grooved (unique in the subfamily). 

 Root of inferior incisor ending abruptly opposite last lower molar 

 (the root generally runs up to the condyle in Arvicolinae). Con- 

 struction of molars, and general cranial characters as in llyodes. 

 Palate ending as in typical Armcola. External characters in 

 general of an ordinary arvicoline style, but in the very long soft 

 full pelage, short heav}' head, and blunt muzzle, approaching tlie 

 Lemmings; nevertheless, ears equalling or overtopping the fur as 

 in Evotomys, and tail equally or exceeding the hind foot, as usual 

 in Arviicola. 



Obs. Foregoing are the essential characters of the most remark- 

 able genus of the subfamily, one singnlarl}' comlnning peculiari- 

 ties of several widely different arvicoline genera. It may be de- 

 fined in a -word as skull and teeth of Myode.^, in body of Arvicola, 

 with ears of Evotomys, and sui generis sulcation of upper incisors. 

 The genus was happily characterized in 1857, but upon such 

 miserably inadequate material,' that Prof Baird did not formally 



' ^^- 2"i5l' ^^^^^- ^- !' merely a rat-eaten bunch of fur, lacking head, tail, 

 and three of the feet, with a defective skull ; and No. 1368, skin with feet 

 and tail, but no head, and no skull. Locality unknown, supposed United 

 States. Eeceived from Wm. Cooper. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



introduce either genus or species in tlie body of his work, though 

 in the introductory list he gives Synapfomys as a subgenus of 

 Myodes and catalogues a species, S. cooperi. Though defined with 

 precision, as far as the material would allow, the genus remains 

 little known. I can indorse it unequivocally, and add all details 

 hitherto wanting. There is probably no more strongly marked 

 genus of ArvicoUnae. 



The groove of the upper incisor is deep, distinct, and runs near the 

 outer edge instead of along the middle (as in Ochetodon and Reithro- 

 don). The incisors are short, broad, and much curved ; their front 

 much bevelled off, so that, viewed in profile, one part of each incisor 

 stands in front of and parallel with the part on the other side of the 

 groove. These teeth tend to the Myodes pattern further in being 

 enamel tubes not completely filled with dentine (calling to mind 

 an unfinished quill pen, after the first oblique slice is cut away) ; 

 their tips are not straightly transverse, and generally nicked at 

 the end of the groove. The under incisors, exactly as in 3Tyodes, 

 stop as to their roots abruptl^^ just in front and inside of the last 

 lower molar ; while in all other Armcolinse I have examined, ex- 

 cepting Myodes and Cunicuhis^ the root runs past (outside) the 

 lower molar up the ramus of the jaw to near the condyle, this 

 passage of the root making an obvious ridge, here wanting. In 

 Synaplomys, as in the genera just mentioned, the whole condylar 

 ramus is thus flat, with its inner surface nearly plane, separated 

 by a strong sulcus from the end of the alveolar portion of the jaw. 

 , As is well known, the molars of Myodes (restricted to exclude 

 Cuniculus), though essentially aggregated rootless prisms as in 

 other Aroicolinse:, are quite diflferent in their details of pattern. 

 Not to go here into detail, I may simply say, that the inner mar- 

 gin of the molar series is crenate, not sharply serrate like the 

 outer as in Arvicola. Now this pattern of Myodes is duplicated 

 in Synaptomys, and so is every other molar detail. Incisoi's aside, 

 the skull and teeth of Synapfomys are not distinguishable with 

 certaint}^ fi'om those of Myodes. Outside, Synaplomys is not a 

 lemming, but an Arvicola., one, too, with ears as large as in Evo- 

 tomys. An alcoholic specimen might be mistaken at first sight 

 for Arvicola austerus. One might suppose it originally a lem- 

 ming, stranded in time long past in latitude so low as to impress 

 upon it ordinary arvicoline exterior characters. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Measurements of a skull of Synaplomys cooperi (No, 6915, Mus. 

 S. I., Kansas, B. F. Goss ). Total length (occip. protub. to end 

 of nasals) 1.14; greatest z^'gomatic width, 0.12; least width (at 

 intei'orbital constriction) 0.15; width of rostrum, 0.25; interraas- 

 toid width 0.58 ; interparoccipital width 0.37 ; height opposite and 

 including last molar, without lower jaw, 0.45 ; length of upper 

 molar series 0.30 ; length of extra-alveolar portion of upper inci- 

 sors 0.24 ; length of rostrum 0.25 ; tip of under incisors to apex 

 of coronoid 0.62, to back of condyle 0.79, to end of descending 

 process 0.81; length of under molar series 0.28; of extra-alveolar 

 portion of under incisor 0.25. 



1. Synaptomys cooperi, Baird. 



Myodes {Synaptomys) cooperi, Bd., M. N. A. 1857, p. xliv. 

 Synaptomys cooperi, op. cit. 558, in text. 



Armcola {Synaptomys) gossii, Bd., Mus. S. I. (labels of Kansas speci- 

 mens which, however, are inseparable from the types). 



Hab. Middle and Western United States and northward. Brook- 

 ville, Indiana, Haymond. South Illinois, Kennicott. Benton Co., 

 Minnesota, Garrison. Neosho Falls, Kansas, Goss. Skagit Val- 

 ley, Oregon, Kennerly. Nulato, Alaska, Ball. 



Dimensions (average of several, alcoholic, from Kansas). Nose 

 to eye 0.45 ; to ear 0.95 ; to occiput 1.20 ; to root of tail 3.50 (from 

 3.00 to 4.00 range of the whole series 2.90 to 4.30) ; tail verte- 

 brae 0.65 (from 0.51 to 0.75) ; tail, with hairs, 0.75 ; fore foot 0.40 ; 

 hind foot 0.70 ; ear 0.35. 



Eigliteen specimens, dry and alcoholic, examined from the above 

 localities. 



Genus VIII. MYODES, Pall., emend. 



Syn. Mm, sp., et Arvicola, sp., Anctt. antiq. Ilypudmis, Illiger, 1811, 

 partini (includes Mus lemmus, amjMbius, etc.). Myodes, Pall., Zoog. 

 R. A. i. 1811, 173, in part (includes Arvicola, and thus about coexten- 

 sive with liis Mures cunicularii of 1778). Lemmus, Linck (fide Bd. 

 In part; includes Arvicola.) Georychus, Rich., F. B. A. 1829 ; and 

 And. and Bach., 1854 (includes Cuniculus). Not of Illiger, which is 

 of an entirely different family. 



Ohs. The chars, of this genus should unquestionably be so 

 drawn as to exclude (7(<m'cu/s, which latter, although also a " lem- 

 ming," is quite as widely separated as the other genera of Arvicol- 

 inse are. Being based upon a long and well-known animal, the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 195 



characters need not be here recapitulated. The several ascribed 

 species of North American Myodes proper are reducible to the 

 following, which is not specifically separable from that of Asia. 



1. Myodes obensis, Brantz. 



Syn. Myodes obensis, Brantz, Muisen, 1827, 55. Keys, and Bias., Werb. 



Eur. vi. 1840, pp. vii. and 32. Midd., Sib. Reise, ii. 1853, 99, pi. ii. 



figs. 7, 8, 9, pi. viii. pi. ix. and pi. x. f. 2. Baird, M. N. A., 1857, 



559. 

 Arvicola (Georychus) helvohis, Rich., F. B. A., 1829, 128. 

 Georychus helvolus, And. & Bach., Q. N, A. iii. 1853, 84, pi. cxx, f. 1. 

 Myodes helvolus, Dall, Alaska and its Res. 1870, 577. 

 Arvicola {Georychus) trimucronaius, Rich., App. Parry's 2d Voyage, 



1825, 309 ; F. B. A. i. 1829, 130. 

 Georychus trimucronatus, And. and Bacli., Q. N. A. iii. 1833, 86, pi. 



cxx. f. 2, 3. 

 Myodes trimucronatus, Dall, Alaska, 1870, 577. 

 Myodes albogularis, Wagner, Suppl. Schreber, iii. 1843, 602. 



Hah. More western portions of Arctic America. 



Ohs. Of this species I have handled about forty specimens, the 

 first examined by an American naturalist for many years. They 

 differ somewdiat from the only two Siberian skins before me, pos- 

 sibly representing a variety (to be called Myodes helvolus) ; but I 

 am far from disputing Yon Middendorff's decision as to their 

 specific identity with the Asiatic animal. 



Genus IX. CUNICULUS, Wagler. 



Stn. Mus, Arvicola, Myodes et Lemmus, Auctt. Georychus, partim. Rich., 

 And. and Bach., nee lll.Cuniculus, Wagler (" 1880"), Isis, 1832, 

 1220; type C gr(enlandicus= G. torquatus or Jiudsonius. Lilljeborg, 

 Syst. Ofvers. Gnag. Glires, 1866 (same type). 



Obs. Withont going into the characters of a perfectly well- 

 known form, I wish to particularl}^ signalize the fact that this 

 genus, tliough 'based upon a " lemming," is very different fi'om 

 3Iyodes^ and, indeed, from any other arvicoline type. The molar 

 pattern is strongly of an ordinary arvicoline general character 

 not at all as in Myodes or Synapfomys wliile details of the molar 

 dentition (as, for instance, six prisms on back upper molar and 

 nine on front lower molar) are unique. The obsolete ear and 

 pollex, the singular hypertroph}^ of the two middle fore claws, and 

 the notable seasonal changes of pelage, are all peculiar. I find 

 but one American species, identical with that of Asia. A second 

 supposed species, C. lagurus, I have not seen. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



1. Cuniculus hudsonius, (Forst.) Coues. 



Syn. Miifi hudsonius, Forst., Phil. Trans. Ixii, 1772, 379. Pall., N. Sp. 

 Glir. 1778, 201. Gm., Syst. Xat. i. 1788, 137. 



Lemmun hudsonius, Sab., Suppl. Parry's Voy. 1824, 185 ; App. Frank- 

 lin's Journ. 1825, G61. Harl., Fn. Amer. 546. 



Arvicola hudsonia, Rich., App. Parry's 2d Voy., 308. 



Arvicola (^Qeorydms) hudsonius, Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 132. 



Myodcs hudsonius, Wagu., Suppl. Schreb. iii. 1843, G04. Midd., Bull. 

 Acad. St. Petersl). iii. xix. Dall, Alaska, 577. 



Georychus hudsonius, Aud. and Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1853, 81, pi. cxix. 



Mus torquatus. Pall., N. Sp. Glir. 1778, pp. 77 and 205, pi. xi. B. 



Myodes torquatus. Keys, aud Bias. Wirb. Eur. 1840, pp. vi. and 32. 

 Midd., Sib. Reise, ii. 1853, 87, pi. iv.-vii. and x. Baird, M. X. A., 

 1857, 558. 



Mus Unensis, Pall., N. Sp. Glir. 1778, 195. 



Mus grcenlandicAis, Traill, Scoresby's Greenland, 1823, 416. 



Arvicola (Oeorychus) grcenlandicus. Rich., F. B. A. i. 1829, 134. 



Oeorychus grcenlandicus, Aud. and Bach., Q. N. A. iii. 1854, 315. 



Cicniculus grcenknidicus, Wagler, Isis, 1832, 1220. 



Myodes gr<nlandic}i.s, Wagner, Suppl. Schrebcr, 1843, 606. 



Lemmus ungulatus, Baer, Baer and Helm., Beit. iv. 1841, 283. 



Hudson^s Rat and Hare-tailed Bat, Penn., Arct. Zool. i. 132, 133 ; 

 Quad. ii. 201. Hare-tailed Mouse, Hearne, Journ. 387. Hudson''s 

 Bay Lemirdng, A.\\(\. WapisJcooseesick ("White Bear Mouse") of 

 the Crees, Lunaguy {'''y^'h.Me Mouse") of the Chippeways, Aioing- 

 nach ("White Mouse") of the Esquimaux. 



Hah. Arctic regions. 



Genus X. FIBER, Cuvier. 



Syn. Castor, L., S. N. i. 1766, 78 (not type). J/iis, Gm., S. N. i. 

 1788 (not lj^Q).'-'Myocastor, Kerr's Linn., 1792," partly, (type 

 Myopotamus coypus) Fiber, Cuv., Lemons, i. 1800 (type Castor 

 zibethicus, L.). Lemmus, Fisher, Syn. 1829 (partly). Ondatra, 

 Watorh., Charlesw. Mag. iii. 1839 (type zibethicus). 



Obs. Although this well-known form presents many peculiari- 

 ties, these are chiefly in adaptation to aquatic habits ; it is strictly 

 arvicoline in all essentials. 

 1. Fiber zibethicus, (L.) Cuv. 

 Syn. Castor zibethicus, Linn., S. N. i. 1766, 79. 



3his zibethicus, Gm., S. N. i. 1788, 125. 



Myocastor zibethicus, "Kerr's Lum. 1792." 



Fiber zibethicus, Cuv., R. A. i. 1817, 172, and of authors. 



Lemmus zibethicus, Fisch., Syn. 1829, 289. 



Ondatra zibethicus, Watcrh., Charlesw. Mag. iii. 1839, 594. 

 ? Fiber osoyensis, Lord, P. Z. S. 18fi3, 95 (British Columbia). 



Hub. North America. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 19' 



NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN NOCTUIDS:. 

 BY AUG. R. GROTE. 



Acronycta exilis, n. s. 



9. A small species of the size of A. vinnulo,, and apparently 

 belonging to the group T7'iaena of Hiibner. The fore wings are 

 pale, with a 3^ellowisli stain, noticeable on the ordinary spots and 

 on the submedian space. The median lines are wide apart, gemi- 

 nate, faint ; the t. p. line rectangularly exserted opposite the 

 cell, running inwardl}' below the median vein. Both the stigmata 

 are relatively large and vague, the reniform with a central ochery 

 stain, which becomes easily lost. The median shade is obvious 

 between them on costal region. The costal region is regularly 

 dotted with pale black points at the inception of the lines; the 

 median shade is very oblique, and the t. p. line has a separate dot 

 for each of its component lines, liere divaricate; there is also an 

 independent dot midway between the median shade and the inner 

 dot of the t. p. line, above the reniform, wanting in tlie succeeding 

 species. A very narrow black dash above internal angle, broken 

 before the margin. The basal streak and that opposite the cell 

 are obsolete. Hind wings pale fuscous, with whitish frino-es 

 reflecting the markings of the under surface where the common 

 line is distinct and lunulate on the hind wings, more dentate and 

 medially exserted on primaries. A discal lunule on hind wino-s- 

 on the more fuscous primaries a discal dash joined to the dark- 

 marked crossvein. Head and thorax pale like the fore winos: 

 black at the sides of the basal joints. Legs pale ; tarsi black- 

 dotted. 



Expanse 30 mm. Habitat. New York (E. L. Graef). 



Acronycta paupercula, n. s. 



9. Of the same size and appearance as ^. ^xiVi.s-, perhaps a 

 little slighter built. This species differs by the shape of the t. p. 

 line, which is more roundedly, less rectangulary exserted opposite 

 the cell than in its ally, and notably less inwardly inflected below 

 the median vein ; its position is similar in the two species. The 

 costal dots are fewer and wider apart, that above the reniform in 

 A. exilis is here wanting. The geminate t. p. line is finer, the 

 outer line more distinctly black, the inner faint; the orbicular is 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a small complete annulus. The black basal streak is distinct, 

 furcate on the oblique, geminate, waved t. a. line. The streak 

 above the internal angle is distinct and continuous, and there is a 

 faint darker sliading outside of tlie t. p. line opposite the cell con- 

 taining an obsolete streak. The whitish fringes are distinctly 

 black-dotted. Hind wings as in A. exilis. Beneath the common 

 line is faint and appears more even and straighter on the primaries 

 than in its ally. 



Expanse 30 mm. Habitat. Texas (E. L. Grraef). 



These closely allied species may be distinguished by the cha- 

 racters given above on close attention. J. paup^rcM^a seems to 

 resemble A. intert^ujjta, a species described by Guenee, from a 

 drawing by Abbot ; it seems to differ in the characters of tlie 

 basal line as given by Guenee as well as in the color of the hind 

 wings which are not at all yellowish in either of the two species 

 described by me. 



Eutolype, n. g. 



A genus which I would refer to tlie Bombycoidea of v. Heine- 

 man. 



The e^'cs are naked, and the small ocelli ma^' be perceived on 

 their margin behind the antennae. The 'S antenna? are bipectinate, 

 thickly setose ; the pectinations increase in length on the inside 

 at basal third, and gradually' taper thence to the tips, where they 

 become obsolete. The labial palpi are short, as in Dicopis, and 

 do not exceed the front, and are thickly haired with depending 

 beard. The whole body is shaggil}' haired, and the short unarmed 

 legs are nearl}^ hidden by the lengthy vestiture. The thorax is 

 comparatively heavy and square, and its proportion to the abdo- 

 men is somewhat as in Dicopis. On the disk is a tuft of metallic 

 scales, such as have hitherto been recorded only of Eudryas and 

 Tolype. The wings are long and rather narrow, the primaries 

 with roundedly oblique external margin and defined apices. The 

 general aspect recalls the Notodontians, but veins 4 and 5 are 

 thrown off together on the fore wings, and the insect undoubtedly 

 is Noctuidous. 

 Eutolype Rolandi, n. s. 



%. Cinereous fuscous. The markings on the primaries are 

 obliterate. The ordinarj^ spots can be made out, of a paler gray, 

 the reniform very large, obsoletely black ringed. The t. p. line 

 may be seen as an approximate gray sinuate band in some indi- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



viduals. The blackish, brokenly dentate subterniinal line, pre- 

 ceded b}^ a gray shade, is usually observable and strikes the eye. 

 Below vein 2 there is a stronger blackish accentuation or small 

 dash. Fringes concolorous. Hind wings with soiled veins and 

 whitish fringes, pale, transparent, ashen, with darker broken ter- 

 minal line. Beneath the primaries are fuscous aslien ; hind wings 

 whitish, irrorate, with discal mark and traces of an approximate 

 median band. 



Expanse 36-31 mm. Habitat. Massachusetts, April 8th to 

 15th (Mr. Roland Thaxter, No. 1019) ; Missouri, April (Prof. C 

 V. Riley). 



Dianthoecia pensilis, n. s. 



S 9. A bright gray, moderately sized species, shaded with 

 blackish, with a certain resemblance to Mamestra diatincta. 

 Primaries whitish at base, Avith a black basal longitudinal streak. 

 Median lines geminate, pale gray, approximate below median 

 vein. Claviform deep black, acute, extending to median shade, 

 apparently resting on a very fine black line which crosses the 

 median space. A very obvious bright brown shade extends 

 above it, below the median vein, from the t. a. line downwardly 

 below vein 2 to the t. p. line. A similar but fainter shade stains 

 the discal tield be^'ond the reniform spot. Orbicular narrow, 

 whitish, oblique, with an interior streak. Reniform pale, upright, 

 moderate, with an incomplete interior black annulus. T. p. line 

 lunulate, projected straightl}' outwardly along costal region, 

 thence obliquely downwardly to submedian fold, where it forms 

 a weak angulation to internal margin. A whitish shade below 



O CD 



vein 2 on subterniinal space setting off the lower black cuneiform 

 marks of the s. t. line b}' contrast. The s. t. line is preceded by 

 a series of such marks, increasing in size ; on costal region the 

 line appears as a white curve. A dark terminal line ; fringes pale 

 at base, fuscous outwardly. Hind wings pale fuscous, with soiled 

 veins and traces of double transverse lines. Beneath pale gray, 

 irrorate, with a common line accented on the veins and faint 

 discal points. Thorax and head mixed blackish and gray; collar 

 with a median black curved line. Abdomen tufted on the dorsum ; 

 ovipositor exserted ; eyes hairy ; tibiae unarmed. 



Expanse 30 mm. Habitat. Victoria (Gr. R. Crotch, Mus. Comp. 

 Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.). 




200 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Helotropha reniformis Grote, var. atra. 



I luive received from Mr. Geo. Norman, under the num])er 172, 

 a singular variety of this species taken at St. Catlierine's, Ont., 

 August the 12tli. The specimen is a female. The fore wings 

 are entirelj^ of a dead black, so that the markings become incon- 

 spicuous, and can onl}' be made out with difficulty. The reniforra 

 is, liowever, entirely white, and becomes very prominent by con- 

 trast. The hind wings are more blackish than brownish-fuscous, 

 as is the under surface and the body. 



Gortyna cerina, n. s. 



9. A large species witli the colors of Xanfhia siJago, hu.t a very- 

 much larger insect. I refer it to Gortyna Hubner=:Hydrcecia^ B., 

 Led., from the circumstance tliat the thorax is crested beliind. 

 There is a sharp tuft behind the collar. Bright jellow marked with 

 dull reddish-purple. Head and thorax yellow, with the patagia 

 and crestings shaded with reddish-purple. Fore wings widening 

 outwardly, with sharp apices and rounded external margin, of an 

 intense yellow; the terminal and sub-terminal spaces reddish-pur- 

 ple, separated by the narrow yellow sub-terminal line proceeding 

 from a yellow apical shade spot. The base of the wing is shaded 

 with reddish-purple. The markings are fragmentar}^ ; the orbi- 

 cular small; the reniform large, narrow, diffusely annulated with 

 purplish in broken blotches. The median shade is as apparent as 

 the median lines, all somewhat ocherous, incomplete ; the t. p. 

 line scalloped. Hind wings soiled yellowish-white, a little darker 

 tinted outwardly. Abdomen like hind wings. Beneath like hind 

 wings above, with an obsolete median shade on secondaries ; on 

 the fore wings the darker tintings of the upper surface are partly 

 reflected terminally. 



Expanse 47 mm. Habitat. Kansas (Prof. Snow, No. 258). 



The head seems to me more sunken than in Xanthia, to which 

 the superb species might be referred at first sigiit from the color- 

 ing. 

 Himella, n. g. 



The type of this genus, H. Jidelis, is characterized l\y a resem- 

 blance to the species of Caradina, while differing structurallj'' by 

 the hair^' ej'es. The %, antennae are brush-like. The palpi have the 

 terminal article a little dependent. The tibise ai'e unarmed; the 

 body parts linear and slender ; thorax untufted, hairy. The wings 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 201 



are long, widening a little ontwardly with slightly rounded, nearly 

 straight external margin. The type has a casual resemblance to 

 the species of Tpimorp/ia. 



Himella fidelis, n. s. 



^ . Of a peculiar, soft warm grayish fuscous, the fore wings con- 

 colorous. The basal half line is indicated by black dots. Median 

 lines pale, even, shaded with blackish, approximate below the 

 median vein. Ordinary spots very large, a little paler than the 

 median space, rounded, very finely pale-circled, the reniform not 

 excavate. T. p. line a little waved or uneven, pale, with a narrow 

 preceding ochre3^-brown shade line, a little depressed on costa. A 

 very fine pale terminal line, fringes concolorous. Hind wings with 

 white fringes and whitish at base, else largely fuscous ; beneath 

 whitish, irrorate with fuscous, and with a discal dot, and faint 

 median shade. Thorax and head concolorous with fore wings. 

 Palpi black at the sides. 



Exjoanse 31 mm. Habitat. Albanj^ (Mr. 0. Meske). 

 Himella furfurata, n. s. 



% . Tiie structural characters are those of the genus, but this spe- 

 cies is ver}^ much smaller than the type, and the ornamentation is 

 more like Orthodes. Fore wings pale ochrey fuscous. Ordinary 

 lines geminate, blackish. T. a. line thrice dentatedly waved, 

 minutely denticulate on costa. Ordinary spots small, inconspicu- 

 ous, obsoletely outlined, the reniform darker than the wing, attenu- 

 ate, black stained inferiorly. T. p. line denticulate, broken up into 

 black points on the veins. Sub-terminal line pale, well removed 

 towards the margin, preceded by an inconspicuous series of darker 

 points. A terminal series of interspaced black dots. Costal edge 

 dotted. Hind wings very pale, immaculate. Beneath very pale ; 

 sparsely irrorate ; both wings show a distinct terminal series of 

 black dots ; there is a common median line and on the hind wings 

 a moderate discal mark. Palpi inconspicuously blackish out- 

 wardly. Head and thorax like fore wings. 



Expanse 26 mm. Habitat. Albany (Mr. 0. Meske). 

 Tseniocampa capsella, n. s. 



% . The dark testaceous antennae are bi-pectinate ; the e^'es 

 hairy. The fore wings are blackish fuscous, silky, with an admix- 

 ture of reddish scales, and remind us of those of Dianthoecia 

 raeditata. The lines are narrow, faint, interrupted, white. The 

 14 




202 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ordinary spots are moderate, blackish, very finely ochre-rii)ged. 

 Minute white and black points on the veins be^'ond the t. p. line. 

 Hind wings fuscous, paler at base, and allowing the distinct discal 

 mark of the under surface to be perceived. Under surface blackish, 

 hind wings partly whitish, with a narrow common line accented 

 on the veins. 



Expanse 28 mm. Habitat. Albany (O. Meske). 



A dark species with silk}' wings, resembling an Orthodes. 



Agrotis innotabilis, n. s. 



This well-marked species resembles, at first sight, A. bicar^nea 

 and A. c. nigrum from the Atlantic States, but differs l)y its 

 smaller size, and the absence of any carneous costal shades on the 

 fore wings. Blackish ; the collar is pale at base, and verj'' broadly 

 banded with deep black superiorly. Fore wings with the trans- 

 verse lines narrow, continued, geminate, accompanied by narrow, 

 pale shades. Orbicular small, spherical, lying in a deep black 

 discal shade preceding and following it ; reniform moderate, dis- 

 colorous, ochraceous, distinct, of the usual shape with distinct 

 internal ring ; fringes blackish. Hind wings blackish fuscous, 

 paler at base. Beneath paler with a purplj^ tinge ; a faint, narrow 

 common line, a little irregular on secondaries, and discal dots. 

 Body parts blackish. 



Expanse 33 mm. Habitat. Saucelito, Cal., Aug. 25th (Mr. 

 Behrens, No. 160j. 



I cannot observe the armatureof the fore tibife in my t3'pe with- 

 out breaking the specimen. It probably does not differ in this 

 respect from its allies. 



Agrotis euroides, u. s. 



%. A rather stout species, resembling at first sight some of the 

 gray forms of Ilamestra or Eurois. All the tibioe spinose. An- 

 tennse strong!}' pectinate, long, the pectinations decreasing to the 

 tips. Whitisli-gra}-. Collar shaded with black at the base, with 

 a black line. Palpi black at the sides of 2d joint; terminal joint 

 black near the socket. Primaries whitish-gray, with the costal 

 edge tinged with carneous. The transverse lines are more broadly 

 marked in black on the costal region, below which they are indis- 

 tinct. The lunulate median shade is tinged with ferruginous or 

 ochre below the reniform. Ordinary- spots large, concolorous, 

 black ringed, with black internal marking, lying in a blackish- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



brown shade which obtains between them traversed by tlie black 

 median shade. Terminal dots distinct. Hind wings dark fus- 

 cous ; beneath closely irrorate with discal point. The primaries 

 beneath show the costal edge carneous, otherwise like secondaries, 

 without any apparent line. The thick body squamation beneath 

 has a carneous or ros^^ tinge. 



Expanse 40 mm. Habitat. California (Mr. James Behrens, 

 No. 6fi). 



Agrotis Bostoniensis, n. s. 



'B9. A rather large, stout, mouse-gray, concolorous species, 

 witli the male antennjB bristled beneath, and the fore tibite spinose. 

 Tlie lines and spots on the fore wings are indistinct, the fuscous 

 lines geminate, component lines rather widely separate. Orbicular 

 obsolete ; reniform vaguely outlined, touched by the angulation 

 of the median shade which is more distinct than the lines, and 

 angulated below the spot. T. p. line with its inner component 

 line minutely scalloped, more distinct than the outer line. Sub- 

 terminal line a subcontinuous series of fuscous marks; fringes 

 concolorous. Hind wings dark fuscous in the female, with white, 

 narrowly interlined fringes; in the male nearl}- white, with soiled 

 veins. Beneath with a faint median shade and extremely incon- 

 spicuous discal mark on secondaries. 



Expanse 38 mm. Habitat. Newtonville (Mr. R. Thaxter). 



The specimens were taken September 11th. Mr. Thaxter's 

 numbers are 1057 9, 1058 %. It lias some resemblance to the 

 European A. cinerea, but it is, perhaps, nearest to A. violaris, 

 G. and R. 



I have received also from Mr. Thaxter specimens of Agrotis 

 badinodis, Grote (No. 1063), taken Sept. 11th, and Agrotis geni 

 culata^ Q. and R. (Nos. 869, 870), taken Sept. 8th, in the same 

 localit3^ 



Owing to Mr. Morrison liaving sent me a specimen of Melapor- 

 p)hyria imniortua^ as I understood from his collection, I have 

 erroneously credited him with the species instead of Mr. Thaxter 

 in m}' original description (Bull. Buff. Soc. N. S., 2, p. 75). I 

 have received a specimen since from Mr. Thaxter, under the No. 

 259, collected by him at Newtonville, Mass., June 12th. 



Oligia Ilubner, s. g. 



A slight form allied to Hadena, apparently distinguishal)le by 

 the more curved, divaricate labial [)alpi. Antennae in tlie male 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



simple, pubescent beneath. Ej^es naked, with short black lashes. 

 Tiie thoracic squamation consists of narrow scales. Maxillae 

 rather weak. Abdomen linear ; collar broad ; tliorax crested 

 behind ; front broad, exceeded b}^ the palpi. Legs unarmed ; the 

 median spurs on hind tibia? situate without the middle of the 

 joint. 



Hadena (Oligia) versicolor, n. s. 



Dark brown with a more or less decided ruddy tinge Primaries 

 shaded with ochreous along internal margin, and witii a well-sized 

 distinct deeper ochreous apical patch. Ordinary lines obsolete, 

 whitish, broken b}' black points on the veins ; the t. p. line ema- 

 nates from a distinct and large white spot on the costa above the 

 vague reniform, which latter is preceded b^^ a distinct black shade 

 on the disk, an evident feature of the ornamentation of the wing. 

 Hind wings uniform pale fuscous, silkj", beneath as above with a 

 discal dot and distinct darker median shade line. Fore winss 

 beneath blackish with traces of the continuation of the median 

 line, paler terminall3% Head and collar brownish ; tegulse paler ; 

 thoracic crestings tipped with blackish. 



JExjyanse 20 mm. Habitat. St. Catlierine's (Mr. Geo. Norman, 

 Nos. 11 and 79). Taken in June. 



Hadena (Oligia) tracta, n. s. 



A little stouter than the other species, and resembling the com- 

 mon 0. Chalcedonia (Hiibn.) ? in ornamentation. Head and 

 collar dark brown. Tegulee and thoracic disk smooth pale faAvn 

 color, and this lighter tinting spreads over the fore wings at base, 

 and extends, obliquely upwardly, to bej'ond the t. a. line over the 

 costal region to the median shade. Median lines geminate ; t. a. 

 line forming wide dentations ; t. p. line white shaded, emanating 

 from a double white costal mark, angulate opposite the cell, nearly 

 perpendicular, a little inwardly bent at median vein, skirting the 

 pale and small reniform spot which latter shows a dark central 

 line. The wing is darker, blackish shaded within the t. a. line at 

 the edge of the oblique pale basal shade, and on the disk. A large 

 ochre}' apical blotch, below which the thread-like angulate sub- 

 terminal line may be faintly discerned. Hind wings translucent 

 whitish, shaded with blackish over the apical region and supe- 

 riorl}' along the terminal margin ; beneath with faint dot and 

 obsolete line. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Expanse 23 mm. Habitat. Texas, Dallas Co., Boll, in Mus. 

 Comp. Zoolog3^, Cambridge. This species differs from our com- 

 mon species from New York, provisionally determined as Ghalce- 

 donia Hiibn.? by the smaller reniform, stonter form, and the 

 peculiar basal shading on the primaries. 



Apamea Ochsenheimer (1816). 



This genus is established in the Schmetterlinge von Europa, 4, 

 p. 75, and divided into three " families" or groups : " A," with 

 nictitans, etc.; " B," with/uruj?cuZo, etc. ; " C," with festacea, etc. 

 Hiibner next proposes distinct genera which sufficient!}'- corre- 

 spond to Ochsenheimer's three groups viz., Sideridis fov the group 

 "A," Oligia for the group "B," and Exarnes and Ogygia for 

 group " C." For some one of these genera the original term 

 Apamea has to be restored. 



Boisduval, in 1829, divides ^2^^"^^^ Oclis. into two genera; retain- 

 ing Apamea for a group of species headed by 7n'c(f/7an,9, which era- 

 braces species included under all three of Ochsenheimer's divisions, 

 and proposing Luperina for testacea, and allied forms. This latter 

 genus is styled ^''Apamea^^ by Lederer, in whose work an exposi- 

 tion of generic character is the strongest feature. Lederer's genus 

 '^ Lnpe?H7ia,^^ contains none of BoisduvaPs species, and cannot 

 remain. It must be resolved into Luceria, v. Hein., with the type 

 virenx, and Ledereria with the group " B." For Lederer's 

 ''' Apamea''' the term Luperina, Boisd. (with the type testacea), must 

 be retained. 



Two generic types nictitam^ and leucostigma are included in 

 Boisduval's genus Apamea ; the other species seem to be now con- 

 sidered as Hadenas s. g. Oligia. The original type of Gortyna, 

 Hiibner (Tentamen) is I'eferred by Guenee to the genus Hydroecia, 

 Guen. I have restored Hiibner's original application in the " List 

 of the Noctuidfe of North America." In my work I have not 

 arbitrarily chosen the type of an}^ genus, but have endeav^ored to 

 apply the rules of zoological nomenclature throughout. In our 

 researches after the true type of Apamea we must choose between 

 these two species, nictitans and leucostigma., both contained in 

 Ochsenheimer's family " A," in the order cited, and both con- 

 tained in oisduval's restriction of that term. For the first spe- 

 cies we have Hiibner's term Sideridis to consider. Giving the 

 priority to Apamea in the first instance, I think we must consider 

 all oi" Hiibner's genera erected at the expense of this term, and 




20G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



without its recognition for any of the species, as standing on an 

 equal footing. We are not encumbered in this matter by any con- 

 sideration of Guenee's term Hydroecia^ for his indication of the 

 type makes it synonymous with Gortyna, Hiibner. To many of 

 Hiibner's genera, e. g. Agrofis, continental authors cite Treitschke 

 or Ochsenlieimer from prejudice or tradition. Here, in the United 

 States, we sliould be free from either sentiment. I see nothing in 

 all this embroiled s3''nonym3^ to prevent my proposing to fix the 

 type of Apamea on nictitans, in rectification of my undoubted 

 error on page 18 of my '' List," wliere I overlooked Guenee's dis- 

 tinct indication of micacea as the t3'pe of his genus Hydroecic. In 

 Ochsenheimer's mind nictitans was evidenth' tlie type of his genus 

 Apamea^ and the term was evidently intended foi- the smaller 

 white-flecked species allied to Goj'fyna. For Lederer's genus 

 " ffydrcBcia," in its integrit}', the term Gor-tyna should undoubtedly 

 be nsed, as I have before show^n. I think I am warranted in divid- 

 ing it into two genera : Apamea^ Oclis., with the type nictitans^ 

 and Gortyna,, Hiibner, with the tj-pe micacea indicated b^^ Hiibner 

 in his Tentamen (ISO*)). Our North American species of Apamea 

 are as follows : 



1. Ap. nictitans (Linn). 



var. erythrostigma (Haw.). 



2. Ap. sera (G. & R.). 



3. Ap. inqusesita (G. k R.). 



4. Ap. purpuripennis, Grote. 



5. Ap. semiaperta (Morr.). 



I have alread}' referred the Hydrcecia Io?'ea, of Guenee, which has 

 hair^' eyes, to Mamestra in the "List of the Noctuidre of Nortli 

 America." 



As yet I have seen onl^^ the var. erythrostigma (Haw.) of A. nic- 

 titans from California; the t^-pical lorm doubtless occurs there. 

 The specimens were large and highl}- colored. 



Apamea purpuripennis, n. s. 



9- Allied to H. semiapeffa^ Morr., slighter, of a more rich pur- 

 ply-red, something like the species of Ne2:)helodes in the tint of 

 the silky primaries. Transverse lines narrow, inconspicuous, the 

 median lines more approximate than in its all}'. The median 

 space, centrall}', is largely stained of an intenser hue than the 

 rest of the wing. In this deeper shading is placed the white re- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20V 



nifovm, more acute inferiorly than in H. semiaperta^ shaded with 

 purplish and not well defined superiorl}', somewhat Y-shaped. 

 Terminal space again darker tinted; fringes concolorous. Thorax 

 like fore wings. Hind wings dark fuscous, silk3\ Beneath paler, 

 purply powdered, without perceptible markings. Antennffi simple. 

 Expanse 28 to 30 mm. Habitat. Newtonville, Mass. (Mr. R. 

 Thaxter, Nos. tOl and 587). Taken June 6th and August 7th. 



Pseudorthosia pectinata, n. s. 



% . The tibise are all spinose. The species differs from the 

 Californian P. variabilis in the longer pectinations of the anten- 

 nae. The color is probably variable as in the Californian form. 

 In the specimen it is ochre3^-brown, somewhat olivaceous ; all the 

 lines are obsolete. The reniform is merel}'' indicated by a vague 

 clouding. The subterminal line is preceded on costa by a deeper 

 tinting. Hind wings blackish fuscous without lines. Beneath 

 quite pale, with a brighter dusting of scales, without markings, 

 except a lunulate discal mark on the fore wings. Thorax like 

 primaries above. 



Expanse 35 mm. Habitat. Colorado Territory (Mr. Mead, 

 No. 37). 

 Pseudorthosia variabilis, Grote. 



Mr. Behrens has taken a number of specimens at Saucelito dur- 

 ing September, which vary from olivaceous through orange-brown 

 to pale in color. The species maj^ always be recognized by the 

 median shade, and the configuration of the stigmata. 



Plusia labrosa, n. s. 



-J,. A lovely species, larger than P.pasiphaeia Grote, and differ- 

 ing in color and the shape of the metallic mark. Ros}^ purple, 

 shaded with olivaceous brown on the median space below the 

 nervure, before the subterminal line, and on terminal space at the 

 extremities of veins 2 to 4, and again at apices. Median lines 

 narrow, pale, stained with ochreous. Reniform narrow, 8-shaped. 

 Metallic mark bold, 3'ellow white, not divided, extending out- 

 wardly nearl}' to the t. p. line, resembling that of Precationis, to 

 which this handsomer species is allied. Subterminal line distinct, 

 deeply angulated, forming two broad teeth between veins 2 and 4, 

 beyond which the terminal space shows three olivaceous shades. 

 Hind wings fuscous, wuth Itroad blackish borders. Head and 

 thorax rosy purple, shaded with olivaceous brown on the collar 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and face of the thoracic crestings. Beneath the wings are 

 3'ellowish-fnscous with obliterate markings. 



Expam^e 38 mm. Habitat. Saucelito, Cal., August 18th (Mr. 

 Behrens, No. 162). 



Plusia epigaea, n. s. 



Allied to P. ampla TFa?^^, but with differently colored fore wings 

 and with the attenuate discal mark outwardly produced inferiorlj-. 

 Fore wings slatey or silky lilac-gray, watered in appearance from 

 the character of the transverse darker shades. The discal spot is 

 open, with the two limbs very narrow, inclosing a trigonate space 

 below the median vein of the ground-color of the wing, and with 

 its inferior portion directed outwardly more boldly in the shape of 

 the tail of a T., terminating roundedl3\ The spot surmounts a 

 deep brown shade stretching across the median space, but not 

 extending to internal margin, with a bright red stain where it 

 reaches the t. p. line. Keniform partially black ringed, oblique, 

 touched by the black median shade line which is apparent on the 

 costal region. T. a. line oblique, angulate, much as in P. ampla. 

 Orbicular small, apparently open to costa. Thorax colored like 

 fore wings, with elevated central crest, the outer face of which is 

 deep brown, discolorous. Hind wings, testaceous fuscous, with , 

 darker borders, and pale fringes dotted interspaceally with fus- 

 cous. Beneath fuscous, the usu'al markings obliterate. 



Expanse 40 mm. Habitat. jSew York. 



Note. The following description of a North American Noctuid (which I 

 have not identified) was found among the papers of Linne, and published by 

 Afzelius, Berlin, 1826, p. 137, No. 10. The Sw-edish original of the work is 

 dated in 1823. 



Plialsena Omicron. 



Noctua spirilingues: alls superioribus 0, albis inscriptis ; infe- 

 rioribus ferrugineis iramaculatis. Hah. in America Septentrionali; 

 Anna Blackburn, Hah. Phal. Gammse, Corpus cinereum inci- 

 saris albicantibus. Antennte nigrse. Pedes nigri genicalis albis. 

 Alse superiores supra griseo-nebulosiB, 0. albo notatre, infra cine- 

 reae ; inferiores supra helvolaj, latere anteriore magis fuscescentes, 

 infra cinerese et subferrugineae ; puncto arcuque nigro obsoletiori- 

 bus, 



I am indebted to Doctor Hagen for the communication of this 

 description. Since a second American moth is described in tlie 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 209 



same work as coming from New York, from the same person, it is 

 possible that the specimen above described came from the same 

 locality. The second species is apparently a Georaetrid, and called 

 Phal. Geom. exlenaria. It is barely possible that Linne intended 

 our common Plusia simplex by his description of Phalsena Omi- 

 cron. 



Scopelosoma devia, n. s. 



% . The new species resembles S. Morrisoni in that the primaries 

 are crossed by pale shade lines, but it differs from all the species 

 in their course. The color is dark olivaceous fuscous, darker 

 than S. Walkeri ; and the lines are accompanied by an olive shad- 

 ing. The median lines are even, and nearer together, especially 

 on the costa, than in the other species. The t. a. line is even, and 

 runs inwardly obliquely from the costa to internal margin. The 

 t. p. line is nearly straight, a little flexed, not roundedly exserted 

 opposite the cell. The concolorous reniform is annulate, upright, 

 pale ringed, not constricted, narrow, slightly luniform. The pale 

 subterminal line is preceded first by an olive shading, and secondly 

 b}' an even, distinct, pale shade, which is wanting in the other 

 species; hind wings dark fuscous; body parts concolorous. 

 Beneath the wings are a little paler, fuscous, subirrorate, with a 

 common blackish median shade line and discal marks. 



Expanse 32 mm. Habitat. St. Catherine's (Mr. George Norman, 

 No. 12). 



Although it is sufficiently apparent that the species of Scopelo- 

 soma are variable, and that we cannot rely on the ground-color 

 of the primaries for specific character, I believe we shall have to 

 discriminate three species at least of the group of vinulenta. I 

 am now inclined to reconsider my identification of sidus Guenee, 

 whose indefinite description is not of much use where we have to 

 descriminate between several species. 



I think it now more probable that Guenee has described vinu- 

 lenta as sidus., and that " sidus" Grote., will prove a form of S. 

 Walke?'i Grote, in which the primaries are stained of a light 

 reddish, and the spots are variable as in the deep-colored S. vinu- 

 lenta. S. Morrisoni varies in the tint of the primaries in a cor- 

 responding fashion. We should then have the following species : 




210 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



1. S. vinulenta Grote. ?S. sidus, Guen. 



2. S. Walkeri Grote, var. siihi-s, Grote. 



3. S. Moi'risoni Grote. 



4. S. devia Grote. 



5. S. Grsefiana Grote. 



The latter species one might be tempted to refer to Glxa or 

 Xanlhia^ but the elongate dentate primaries would determine its 

 generic position. 



Calocampa cineritia, n. s. 



Distinguishable from G. curvimaciila, Morr., and 0. nupera, 

 Lintn., by the absence of any basal dashes on the primaries. 

 Fore wings bathed in aslien from tlie base to the blackisli fringes, 

 allowing an ochreous shade to extend outwardly beyond the reni- 

 form over the subterminal line, the latter here more distinctly 

 marked by uneven cuneiform dashes. The black ringed ordinary 

 spots are so close as to nearly coalesce ; they arc wider apart in 

 C. ciirvimacula. Tlie costal region is shaded with deep brown; 

 the extreme base of the wing is wliitish; the t. a. line is visible, 

 strongl}' dentate, geminate; the costal edge is black; tlie thorax 

 is black, as in the European species, not brown as in Curvimacula; 

 the sides at the base of the piimaries are white; the collar is pale 

 brown, finely lined ; the front and palpi blackisli; hind wings con- 

 colorous, ruddy fuscous ; beneath ruddy fuscous with dentate 

 median line and discal j)oint on hind wings. 



ExqoanHe 50 mm. Habitat. Ncwtonville, Mass. (Mr. R. Thaxter, 

 No. 44. May 19th). 



This species resembles C. vetusta perhaps more than C. nupera 

 does, and might stand for its American "representative." I have, 

 following Mr. Morrison's remarks, been disposed to consider C. 

 nupera as the American "representative" of the European G. ve- 

 tusta (Bull. Buff. S. N. S., 2, p. 195). G. nupera appears to me 

 to resemble the European G. exoleta^ rather than G. carvimacida, 

 in opposition to Mr. Morrison's opinion on the subject. There 

 are no l)rown shades on the internal portion of the wing in G. cine- 

 ritia, nor is tlie terminal space ochraceous, except opposite the 

 disl<, and as the continuation of the same shade opposite the 

 reniform. There are no superposed dots representing the orbicu- 

 lar as in G. vetia^ta, from which G. cineritia seems to l)e easily 

 distinguishable by the configuration of the ordinary spots. The 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



three American species of Calocampa appear to me easily separa- 

 ble from the two European. The species had very probably a 

 common tertiary origin, and the question of one species " repre- 

 senting" another has probably no proper basis in fact. At any 

 rate, we must agree with Mr. Lintner that tlie American G. mipera 

 does not "represent" the European C. vetusta, and the comparison 

 between tlie species on page 195, of a^oI. ii. Bull. B. S. N. S., must 

 be omitted. 



The inquiry as to what species irom America Mr. Walker has 

 regarded as the same as C. vetnsta^ seems to me entirely barren. 

 The European species was included in the "List of N. Am. Noc- 

 tuidai" upon Mr. Walker's authority, and whenever a European 

 species is cited in that list, it is understood to he on the authority 

 cited after the original description. Where no other than the 

 original description is given (as for instance Agrotia baga, p. 2) 

 the Author of the "List" assumes the responsibility. 

 Pyrrhia illiterata, n. s. 



9. Tlie moth agrees with Pijrrhia in the unarmed fore tibire, 

 and the sharp tuft behind the collar. It differs greatly in the 

 appearance of the ordinary lines from our hitherto described spe- 

 cies ea:p7'imens and angulata. Entirely reddish orange, tiie collar 

 and tegalse faintly margined witli fuscous. Primaries with the 

 transverse lines narrow, undulate, denticulate, the t. a. and t. p. 

 lines tending to be accented b}' interspaceal points. Tlie lines are 

 fuscous or blackish, unaccompanied by any shades. Ordinary 

 spots like the lines, incompletely outlined, concolorous, the orbi- 

 cular spherical, moderate. Sub-terminal line indicated by dots, 

 with a preceding dark costal shade and a shade spot opposite the 

 cell. Hind wings stained with red, with a narrow fuscous subter- 

 minal shading, like that of Heliothii^^ but less prominent. Beneath 

 with a common continued fuscous exterior line becoming obliterate 

 on the hind wings inferiorly. Discal marks on primaries, but none 

 on secondaries. 



ExpoMse 32 mm. Hahitat. Mendota, 111., from Prof. C. Y. 

 Riley. Taken in August, 18T2. Mass., from Mr. Thaxter. 



The moth has some resemblance to Xanthia. The clypeus is, 

 however, fuller, and the habitus more that of the genus to wliich I 

 have referred it. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Tamila tertia, n. s. 



Z 9. At first sight the species recalls the genus Tarache 

 (Acoulia), but the armature of the tibijB allies tlie moth to 

 HeliolhiH. It agrees witli Tamila in the fact that the vestiture 

 of the thorax consists of flattened scales mixed with hair. The 

 fore tibiiig liave a double row of short spinulcs terminating in a 

 stout shoi't blunt spine on the outside. White or with a yellow 

 brown tinge. Fore wings dark at base, with tlie t. a. line black, 

 projected on median nervure, a little irregular. The anterior and 

 widest half of the median space beyond the line is nearh^ white or 

 pale to the median sliade, showing tlie fiiintly marked orbicular. 

 Bej'ond the median shade the median space is shaded with oliva- 

 ceous fuscous, as is the rest of the wing except the rivnlous white 

 subterminal shade; the white usuall}^ obtaining again before the 

 t. p. line. Reniform rather large, outlined outwardly in black, 

 suffused with a leaden hue. T. p. line sinuate, geminate, the outer 

 component line black, bi'oken. A terminal black broken line pre- 

 ceded b}' pale shading. Fringes olivaceous fuscous, the extremi- 

 ties pale and dark dotted. Hind wings whitish with a subterminal 

 fuscous shade and discal mark. Beneath white, with a large black 

 discal mark on primaries, and a subterminal transverse fuscous 

 shade furcate superiorly. Hind wings with a faint discal lunule 

 and terminal shading. Body parts white or pale, the black 

 ovipositor shortly exserted. 



Exjjanse 26 mm. Habitat. Texas (Boll), 



A darker tinted, less whitish specimen has been sent me by Mr. 

 E. L. Graef from Texas. The dark color is less olivaceous than 

 in T. nundina^ from which the species is separable by the dis- 

 tinctly marked median lines. 



Pseudolimacodes niveicostatus, Grote. 



In my original description of this genus and species (Stett. Ent. 

 Zeitung), I referred it to the Nonfasciatae, but on account of the 

 projecting head, stout and prominent labial palpi, and in particular 

 the pattern of the ornamentation, I believe we must place it 

 among the Fasciatse of Borkhausen. The neuration has not been 

 studied. It differs from all the genera known to me in this latter 

 group by the proportionally short, stout, and distinctly brush-like 

 antennae. The obliquity of the line beneath on tiie hind wings is 

 indicative of its affinities. The lines on the primaries above are 

 like Phurys somewhat in position. The colors ai'e intense rosy 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



silky brown, and in this respect the concolorons species recalls 

 Panojjoda, Pleonectyptero,^ and other bright-liued quadrifid 

 genera. The costa is white to the inception of the outer trans- 

 verse line. The innei* line is outwardly rounded, oblique ; 

 approaching the straighter outer line on internal margin. The 

 two lines are dark witli pale rosy shadings. A white transverse 

 streak in the place of the reniform. No other markings on the 

 wing. Tlie hind wings are faintl}' crossed by a diagonal streak. 

 A % specimen has been sent me from Massachusetts for identifi- 

 cation by Mr, Morrison expanding 28 mm. 



Homopyralis, n. g. 



This genus appears intermediate between the genera allied to 

 Homoptera and the Deltoids. The eyes are naked, ocelli very 

 small. The male antennae are lengthily pubescent beneath with a 

 longer bristle on each side of each antenna! joint; in the female 

 the pubescence is absent, and the lateral bristles somewhat shorter. 

 The palpi are long and exceed the front, curved, with elongate 

 third article, closely scaled. The tlioracic squaraation consists of 

 flattened scales with rounded, even apices, those attaclied to the 

 prothorax very broad ; there is a very slight admixture of hair. 

 The size is small, the body slender, the wings broad with 

 Homopteriform ornamentation, the tibiae unarmed. 



Homopyralis tactus, n. s. 



% 9. Dark brown, concolorons Transverse lines black shaded. 

 Orbicular a small black dot; reniform a larger black subluniform 

 spot touched by the double median shade whicli forms the most 

 noticeable feature of the wing, and is repeated on the secondaries 

 where it includes the black discal spot. The t. p. line is geminate, 

 marked on costa, sometimes merely indicated by dotted fragments 

 opposite the cell, where it is somewhat rectangularly exserted, 

 running inwardly below median vein, and approximating to the 

 median shade on internal margin. Costal, pale, ante-apical dots, 

 below which the costal region is darker shaded before the faint 

 subterminal line. A terminal interspaceal series of dots; fringes 

 concolorons. On the hind wings transverse rivulous shades with- 

 out the black median shade; on internal margin these are relieved 

 by a pale yellowisli staining. Beneath pale, with common trans- 

 verse shades, imitating the upper surface, and with a resemblance 

 to the wider surface of the wings in Fseudaglossa. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Expanse 27 mm. Habitat. Mass.; X. Y.; Ya. ; Texas (Belfrage, 

 Oct. 29tli). 

 Homopyralis tantillus, n. s. 



% ?. Jjoth sexes of a species smaller than H. tactus, of a more 

 blackish color, and with the median shading less apparent. The 

 paler dottings of the costal region are more distinct and relieved. 

 It may be distinguished also by a series of paler dots at the base 

 of the fringes, absent in its congener. 



Expanse 23 mm. Habitat. Ya. ; Texas (Belfrage, Sept. IVth), 



The genus may precede Phalsenophana on page 47 of the '"List 

 of the Noctuidae of North America." 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA . 215 



November H. 

 The President, Br. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



Anthers of Ambrosia artemisixfolia. Mr. Meehan desired to 

 correct an error into which he had fallen, in some observations on 

 the Ambrosia artemisiasfolia, contributed to the Academ^y's Pro- 

 ceedings a few years ago. Among other things, he stated in tliat 

 paper that there were two classes of anthers in the flowers, one 

 barren, and surmounted b}^ a short horn, the other polleniferous, 

 and hornless. He had been led to re-examine the matter through 

 the kindness of Professor Asa Graj', who had written to liim, after 

 his remarks had been quoted in Hooker and Bentham's Genera 

 Plaufarum, expressing doubts as to the accuracy of the observ- 

 ation. He now found he was wrong. There is but one class of 

 stamens, and all have horns. He expressed regret for the error, 

 believing inaccurate observations the bane of science. He would 

 only say in extenuation that the error was one easily made. 

 The parts are exceedingl}^ small, requiring a strong glass to see 

 them. The small horn is bent down closely against the back of 

 the stamen, and does not become erect until the pollen has been 

 discharged. He thus had concluded it did not exist. Then the 

 pollen must be ejected in some way very rapidly' after the pollen 

 sacs have burst, and the dry membranous remains so freely mixed 

 with what appeared perfect anthers had misled him. The burst- 

 ing and emptying by the sacs of their pollen, and the erection of 

 the horn, he thought must take place suddenl}^ and early in the 

 morning, as he had found no change whatever in the various parts 

 of the inflorescence after 9 A. M. Pie had hoped to be able to 

 give the exaet time and manner of these actions, but the approach 

 of winter had destroyed the specimens, and he was unwilling to 

 let the season go over without correcting the error in the particu- 

 lars named. 



Dimorphism in Apples. Mr. Thomas Meehan said that of late 

 3"ears it had been an interesting question what influence was 

 exerted on the cliaracter of the fruit immediately by hyln'idiza- 

 tion. He had himself brought to the notice of the Academy, in- 

 stances which proved in some cases there was an immediate influ- 

 ence, as well as on the progeny of the fertilized fruit. But he 

 believed there was more claimed for this immediate influence than 

 the facts warranted. In the apple there had been many instances 

 in scientific journals of the highest charactei", in which it was 

 believed that two distinct fruits had combined in one apple b3' 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



hybridization. The cliief mixtures were generally russets with 

 ligliter apples. He exliibited one which had been sent by Mr. J. 

 J. Thomas, of Union Springs, in which the upper half was russet 

 and tlie lower of some green kind. In this case, however, it was 

 clear that the russet was formed V\y some element of destruc- 

 tion in tlie epidermal cells. In the bark of most trees suber 

 cells had in each tree a specific form of dcA^elopment, and were 

 generally very uniform in their conditions of growth. They 

 usuall}' destro^'ed the bark as they grew, and generalh' in some 

 one regular direction, and this gave the characteristic fissures 

 to the bark of trees, and not mere mechanical expansion, as 

 was popularly supposed. It was not always regular, however, as 

 in the plane tree it was erratic, and thus the bark peeled otf with- 

 out an^' regular plan, and in the most unexpected places. The 

 skin of the apple was but modified bark, and in the epidermis were 

 cells sul)ject to the same laws of development as in bark. In 

 the beech onl}^ a very thin film was subjected to the destructive 

 agency of the suber cells, changing the color of the young green 

 shoots to an ashen-gray in age, without an3-deep rifts ever appear- 

 ing. In the apple, both in the bark and fruit, the cells proceeded 

 in much the same way, erratic sometimes as iu the beech, and 

 acting on the thin external membrane as in the beech or plane. 

 The russet appearance followed this action in the apple and pear. 

 Very often it appeared near the stem cavity. Frequently on the 

 same tree there would he large numbers russetted in this way, as 

 well as man}' without. The variable nature of the russet growth 

 was more frequently seen in the pear than in the apple. He had 

 seen in these kinds in some seasons and places all 3'ellow, the half 

 or more covered with russet in others. 



He had never seen the peculiar condition of the parts exhibited 

 in Mr. Tliomas's specimen before, but it was evident that all the 

 phenomena pointed to some similar external cause, and that cross 

 fertilization had nothing to do Avith these dimori)hic cases. 



Mr. M. also exhibited another specimen similar to the one pro- 

 duced last year, from the tree at Kittaning, Pa., which bore fruit, 

 without the production of calyx, corolla, or stamens. The upper 

 portions of the series of the embryonic leaves which form the fruit, 

 were more free than in that exhibited last year, affording a better 

 illustration of the morphology of the parts. 



Blinduei<s of Salmon Dr. A. G. Reed made the following 



remarks regarding the cause of blindness of the salmon: In the 

 month of August, 1873, I ascended the Tobique River, of New 

 Brunswick, to its head-waters, for the purpose of salmon fishing, 

 and thence descended the Xipisiquit River, where I found the best 

 salmon fishing in the province. 



While on the Tobique River my Indian guide captured a large 

 salmon so easily that it attracted ni}' attention, when he told me 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



it was a blind salmon ; and ui)on examination, I found this fish 

 had various sears on liis head, the left e3'e had sloughed out, 

 the riglit eye had a cut across it, and a thin film had formed over 

 the eye, causing him to be entirely blind. I learned from the 

 Indians that it often occurred tliat large salmon became blind, and 

 did not return to the sea with the rest of the fish for feeding, but 

 remained in the deep pools of the river, and eventually starved to 

 death. The Indians have many theories regarding the cause of this 

 blindness, none of which are plausible. During this trip I had 

 several chances of seeing salmon that were either blind in one or 

 both eyes, but did not at that time find out the true cause. But 

 during the past summer, while fishing on the tributaries of the 

 Saguinay River, in Canada, I again saw the same disease present- 

 ing itself in the salmon of those streams. I noticed that no small 

 salmon are found in this condition, and that all the blind ones 

 have cuts across the eyes and head, producing scars as if some line 

 or thread had been drawn tightly across the eyeball. 



M}^ view of the matter is that the fish in ascending or descend- 

 ing the streams come in contact with gill-nets that are set for the 

 capture of this fine fish for food, which the inhabitants of that 

 region use during their long cold winters. The meshes of the nets 

 are of the proper size to allow a large salmon to pass his head 

 through as far as the eye, while the smaller fish pass the head fur- 

 ther through, and thus escape the cut of the fine linen thread across 

 the delicate membranes of the e3'e. 



This cut if deep produces sloughing, but if slight, inflammation 

 and infiltration of the conjunctiva, thereby rendering it opaque. 



It is only the large noble fellows that escape capture by these 

 nets, with their heads scarred and their tails slit, showing the fear- 

 ful struggle tliey had in clearing themselves of the nets spread for 

 their capture, and living to become blind never again to return 

 to their feeding grounds, and soon to die of starvation. 



November 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-tAvo members present. 



Paul Beck, George Gerrj^ White, James G. Pease, George F. 

 Barker, W. J. Hoffman, M.D., Joseph D. Potts, David "E. Dallam, 

 W. W. Jeffries, and Miss Adeline S. Trj'on were elected members. 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



December 1. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three metabers present. 



0^? Specific Gramty. Prof, Letdy remarked, that, in taking the 

 specific gravity of minerals by means of the scales in weighing the 

 substance in water, the usual plan was to suspend it from one side 

 of the instrument by a delicate thread or hair. The attachment 



of the specimen was tedious 

 and often difficult, especially 

 in the case of small crj'stals 

 and polished gems, from 

 which the hair would slip, 

 and could only be made to 

 retain its position by caus- 

 ing it to stick with some ad- 

 hesive matter. He dispensed 

 with the thread or hair, and 

 substituted on one side of 

 the balance a double dish, 

 as represented in the figure. 

 The lower dish is perforated, and is kept suspended in a glass of 

 water. After weighing the specimen in air in the upper dish, it 

 is simi)ly necessarj^ to change its place to the lower dish to weigh 

 it in water. 



Coloring of Autumn Leaves. Mr. Thomas Meehan presented 

 some leaves sent to the Academj'- from the West, illustrating the 

 influence of light in coloring autumn leaves. They were of the 

 red or swamp maple, Acer rub7-um,, and had been fastened in pairs 

 by a spider's web. The uppermost leaf, obstructing the sun's 

 action on a portion of the lower, had prevented any change of 

 color in the unexposed part of the lower leaf, and thus the exact 

 form of the upper was photographed or outlined on the lower one. 

 Mr. Meehan said there was nothing new to science in this observa- 

 tion, as orchardists were well aware that the coloring of apples 

 and pears was deepest on the sunny side ; and that when entirely 

 shaded from the sun, by over-hanging leaves or branches, they 

 were almost colorless. 



This fact was often taken advantage of to photograph names 

 liy stencilled paper on fruits. At the Great Sanitary Fair held 

 during the war, fruit with names of Grant and Lincoln thus " sun 

 burnt" on them, brought good prices. 



Still it was well to remember that the sun could not be the sole 

 cause of color. Apples exposed to the same sunlight would be 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



often striped, and the dark colors would often be of various shades. 

 Besides this, European trees which bad no color in their own 

 country, when planted side by side with allied species here, still 

 preserved tiie same characteristics. Neitlier heat, nor light, nor 

 frost made the slightest change. The English oak beside tiie 

 closely allied American white oak retained its green color till 

 absolutely dried up b}' frosty winds. On the other hand, our 

 colored-leaved trees preserved their same colored characteristics 

 when growing in Europe under veiy dissimilar circumstances to 

 those at home. 



In spite of the visible action of the sun in the instances exhibited 

 and quoted, it was clear from the facts referred to, that solar or 

 chemical action could not be the sole cause of autumn colored 

 foliage. Though it seemed an incipient stage of decay, involving 

 chemical change, the coloring of the apple in the sunlight, or of 

 the autumn leaf, ceased if taken from its parent tree. It had to 

 remain on to the last, to get its full tints. Vital action of some 

 sort, therefore, must be taken into account by those who are 

 investigating the subject. 



The Committee to which it had been referred recommended the 

 following paper to be published : 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HELMINTHOPHAGA. 

 BY HEROLD HERRICK. 



Helmintliophaga Lawrencii, Herrick. PI. 15. 



Ui)per parts and inimp olive-green, a shade darker than in Pinus. 

 Wings bluish-gray with two white bands, the upper not so clearlj' 

 defined as in Pinus. Tail bluish-gray with the three outer tail- 

 feathers with most of the web white, also a small white spot on the 

 end of fourth feather. 



Crown and under parts, from the breast to the vent, orange. 

 A broad black patch extends from the bill through and behind 

 the eye. Chin, throat, and forepart of breast l>lack. 



A 3'ellow stripe, commencing under the bill, extends back between 

 the black eye and breast patches and increases in wndth upon tlie 

 shoulder. Length, 4.50. Wing, 2.50. Tail, 2. Measurements 

 from mounted bird. 



The bird from which the above description is taken I obtained 

 from my friend, Mr. D. B. Dickinson, of Chatham, New Jersey, in 

 whose collection I found it. Its capture, as nearly as I can 

 ascertain, was in Ma}^, ISt-l, on tlie bank of the Passaic, near 

 Chatham. The specimen is evidentl}' an adult male, and is so 

 clearly and strikingly marked as to preclude the possibility of its 

 being an unusua] form of Pinus or Chrysoptera, its nearest allies, 

 or a hybrid. Its general appearance is at first like Pinus with the 

 black eye and throat patches of Chrysoptera, but a closer exami- 

 nation shows little peculiarities that do not exist in either. Of 

 its title to a place in our Helminthophagas there can be no doubt, 

 and I take greater pleasure in recording it, because of its capture in 

 New Jersey, a section already so thoroughly worked up. For a 

 name, I think none can be so appropriate as that of my esteemed 

 friend, George N. Lawrence, Esq., in recognition of many ftivors 

 in the past, and of his untiring labors towards the promotion of 

 ornithologv. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIITA. 221 



December 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



Continuous Oroivth in Fungoidal Excrescences. Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan exhibited some excrescences, growing on branches of 

 Querciis tivctoria.^ the black oak, gathered from ab(3ve tlie remarka- 

 ble quarry of broken rocks at Edge Hill, which had been brought 

 to the notice of the Academy last year by Mr. Rand, and remarked 

 that all familiar with our forest features must have often seen 

 similar excrescences, which were the work of insects, and partook 

 of the nature of galls. An examination of these exhil)ited showed 

 them to be of fungoid origin, and similar in their nature to the 

 familiar knots on the plum and cherry, whicli through the re- 

 searches of the late Mr. Walsh and Prof Peck, of Albany, were 

 now known to be of fungoid, and nut of insect origin. These, 

 however, and he believed most of the excrescences of this character, 

 completed their groAvth within one year, becoming dead and dry 

 the subsequent season. Sometimes new matter would form near 

 the point of issue of the old one; but this was wholly from the 

 branches, and added nothing to the growth of the foi'mer year. 

 In the case of these Edge Hill sjiecimens, the growth of the 

 excrescence was as regularly continuous as the other woody 

 jiortions of the tree, and seemed to endure while the tree lasted. 

 The first season the excrescences were small, the second as large 

 as marbles, and the third often equalled a walnut in size, while 

 some on the trunks and main branches were as large as an average 

 sized oyster-shell. The minute fungoid organisms that formed 

 these excrescences were usually short-lived ; and their longevity 

 in these instances he considered remarkable. 



On a New Mastodon and Bodcnt. Prof Cope made a commu- 

 nication on the Elephants obtained by himself in New Mexico and 

 Colorado during the past season while attached to the Wheeler 

 Survey. He had obtained Elephas primigenius vav. Columbi from 

 post-pliocene beds at the base of the Zandia mountains, and the 

 Mastodon ohioticus from corresponding beds near Taos. The 

 former species he had also obtained from the valle\' of the South 

 Platte in northeastern Colorado. The pliocene sands of Santa Fe 

 contained numerous remains of a Mastodon which Leidy had re- 

 ferred to his 31. obscurus,^ but which is obviousl}^ a different species, 

 and being without name, Prof. Cope proposed to call it M. produc- 



> Report of Geolog. Surv. Terrs., Vol. I. 4to., p. 235. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



tus. He gave a list of the Ts^ovth American Mastodons, referring 

 them to the two groups characterized, tlie one by the continuous 

 cross-crests divided by a fissure only, the other b}' the transverse 

 series of two or more deeply separated tubercles. To tlie first 

 he referred 31. ohioficus.i Cuv.,and 31. pi'oavus^ Cope; to the second 

 31. chapmanii., Hays (from which 31. obi^ciirus could not he at 

 present distinguished), 31. shepardii, Leidv; 31. andium, D'Orb. 

 (the last two referred by Leidy to 31. obscurua) ; 31. mirifictis, 

 Leidy (closely allied to 3L humboJdfii), and 3T. pi-oductu.^., Cope. 



No question as to the distinctness of the 31. productua coidd 

 arise, although our knowledge of the 31. chapmanii to which it 

 has been referred is very slight. As described by Drs. Hays and 

 Leid^^, tiie lateral tubercles of the molars in that species are 

 closely appressed or not separated, being sometimes continuous 

 across the crown of the tooth. This description applies to one 

 of the specimens (a cast) selected by Dr. Leidy as his type, and 

 to a second specimen referred by him to the 31. andium. The 

 second tj^pe specimen of Leid}', a fragment of a posterior molar, 

 is undistinguishable from corresponding pai'ts of 31. andium. The 

 3L i^hepardii as described by Leidy is evidently quite distinct from 

 both tlie preceding and from the 31. productuM., in the absence of 

 accessory tubercles of the lateral principal cusps of the molars. 



The 3T. productus was characterized as follows : 



The posterior inferior molar supports five transverse series of 

 tubercles, of which the posterior is less developed than the others. 

 Each series is composed of two cusps of a conic form Avhich are 

 separated deeplv from each otlier, and are not united at the base 

 so as to become confluent on attrition. The cones of the outer side 

 support one or two accessory tubercles on a line with their inner 

 or median face, so that tlie transverse section of a worn tooth with 

 the two accessory cusps is that of a trefoil with the lobes iuwartls. 

 The penultimate molar in the same jaw supports three transverse 

 series. The symphysis is elongate depressed and subsimtulate ; 

 its proximal half is excavated, the distal half flattened. Two 

 tusks project from the extremity ; they are short, obtuse, and 

 flattened on the inner side. Total lengtli of a specimen which is 

 entire from the end of the symphyseal tusks to just beiiind tlie 

 last molar, 29 inches; length to first molar (penultimate), 19 

 Inches; length of first molar, 4.25 inches; of last molar, 6..^ inches; 

 width of same, 3 inches. Width across the rami at end of last 

 molar, 18 inches; do. between anterior borders of first molar, 2. .5; 

 do. of symphyseal spout, least, 4.5 inches; at base tusks, 4.75 

 inches. Length of free portion of S3'mphyseal tusks, 4 inches ; 

 diameter of do. 1.75 inches. 



Prof. Cope also described a species of Rodent from the same 

 beds under the name of Sleneofiber pansus. 



The molar teeth exhibit a regular gradation in width from the 

 large anterior to the small posterior. In the mandibular series 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



the second and third are broader than long, the first and fourth 

 longer than broad, and with an angle on the outer anterior side 

 of the crown. Tiiere is an inflection or groove of the enamel on 

 both inner and outer sides of the crown, and one enamel area before 

 and one behind them on all excepting the last molar, where there 

 are two in front. First nearly twice as large as last molar. Lower 

 incisor with smooth enamel, and angulate on the extero-anterior 

 border. Karaus stout. Length of molar series m. .OK; ; length 

 of first molar m. .005 ; width of first molar m. .004 ; width of last 

 molar m. .0035; transverse diameter of incisor m. .004; depth of 

 ramus at m. 2.012. 



The regular diminution of the size of the teeth from front to 

 rear is characteristic of this species; according to Dr. Leidy their 

 reduction in size in the S. vehrascenais is more abrupt. The latter 

 species is said to be of Miocene age. 



December 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present, 



Remarks on Fossih 'presented. Prof Leidy remarked that the 

 collection of fossils presented this evening by Lieut. E. Crawford, 

 U.S.A., contained some interesting specimens. Among them 

 are a number of tartiary vertebrate remains, which were found l\y 

 Lieut. Crawford about ten miles from Red Cloud Agency, Ne- 

 braska. They mainly consist of fragments of bones and teeth, 

 similar to those which he had previously ascribed to Titanotheriura. 

 The s|)ecimens indicate two individuals differing in size. 



A lower jaw fragment, contains a last molar, like tiiose repre- 

 sented in Plate XVi. of the Ancient Fauna of Nebraska, except that 

 the external basal ridge is interrupted at the extreme outer part 

 of the lobes of the crovvn. The fore and aft diameter of the latter 

 has been about 3 inches and 7 lines. 'J he thickness of the jaw 

 just below the fore part of the tooth is little more than two inches. 



A number of lower molars exhibiting evidences of having 

 belonged together indicate a larger animal than the former. The 

 last molar has lost its hinder lobe, but without this is as large 

 fore and aft as in the specimen first indicated. When perfect, it 

 was about 4^ inches antero-posteriorl3\ In this likewise the basal 

 ridge is interrupted at the extreme outer part of the lobes of the 

 crown. The crown of the second molar, well-worn, is 35 lines 

 fore and aft. 



The three premolars have the same constitution as the molars, 

 and rapidly diminish in size, passing forward in the series. The 

 first premolar is 14 lines fore and aft ; the second is 19 lines; and 

 the third is 22 lines. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The lower series of three premolars and three molars has 

 rneasnrcd in its complete conrlition about 14 inches in length. 



The isolated canine tooth, which I supi)oseto have pertained to 

 the lower jaw, is a remarkable tooth, and has more of the usual 

 characters of an incisor tooth. The crown is sliort, conical, and 

 robust, and is bounded internalh' with a thick basal ridge. The 

 length of the crown in its present worn condition is 13 lines; its 

 width at base from witliout inwardly, about the same measurement, 

 and from side to side 11 lines. 



Of several imperfect thoracic vertebrre, one of the best preserved 

 has the bod}' over 2 inches long at the lower margin and about 3i 

 inches in breadth. The centre are strongly- concavo-convex. 



The head of a thigh-bone is about 4 inches in diameter, and has 

 a large deep pit on its inner side for a terete ligament. 



The distal end of a thigh-bone is 6 inches in transverse diameter, 

 and the trochlea for the patella Is over 3 inches wide. 



Accompanying the Titanotherium remains are the shells of two 

 turtles pertaining to the sj^ecies Stylemys nebrascensis. 



Tlie remaining fossils of the collection are mainlj' cretaceous, 

 and were obtained by Lieut. Crawford in various localities of 

 Dakota. Among them are several large specimens of Inoceramus 

 problematicus in nodules of iron stone, and fragments o{ Bacalites 

 compresHus^ together with several vertebra? of fishes, etc. 



On the Characters of Symborodon. Prof. Cope stated that the 

 fossil mammalian remains from near the Red Clond Agency, Da- 

 kota, presented this evening, probably belonged to a species of 

 Symborodon. He remarked that that genus differs from Titano- 

 therium (or Menodus) in the entire absence of inferior incisor teeth, 

 and the close approximation of tlie canines. In the last-named 

 genus the canine teet'.i of the lower jaw are widel}' separated by 

 four well-developed incisors. Dr. Leid^^ had included species of 

 Symborodon in his descriptions of Titanotherium Proutii ; thus 

 nearly or quite all of the portions of upper jaws described and 

 figured by him as belonging to the latter genus, really pertained 

 to the former, hence the erroneous assertion that Symborodon and 

 Titanotherium are identical. The u|)per jaw and superior teeth, 

 with the possible exception of one or two molars, of Titcnotlierium 

 Proutii are unknown. He added that in a few days his figures of 

 corresponding parts of tiie lower jaws of tlie two genera would 

 appear (in Hayden's Report U. S. Geological Survey Terrs. 1873, 

 Plate II.) and render tlie point clear. 



On Dr. Leidy's '^ Correction.''^ Prof. Cope stated that his record 

 of Dr. Leidy's views on the Fossil Reptilia of tlie Upper Missouri 

 Lignite, contained in Hayden's Bnlletin, IT. S. Geological Survey 

 Territories, No. 2, p. 7, whicii Dr. Leidy had deemed inaccurate,^ 

 expressed, as nearly as the case would admit of, the conclusions to 



' Proceedings of the Academy, 1874, p. 73. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



he found in Dr. Leid3''s paper quoted. Thus, wliile it is true that 

 it is there remarked of tlie remains of Hadrosaurus occide7italis, 

 " I suspect to be a Dinosaurian, though tliey ma}' have belonged to 

 a Mammalian," he placed the genus " Thespesius," to which he 

 referred the species, under the capital heading " Mammalia." Tlie 

 paper {Proceedings Academy^ 1856, 312) was divided into the 

 headings, Mammalia, Chelonia, and Pisces, and tlie species num- 

 bered, and Thespesiun occidenlalis stands No. 4 under the first- 

 named heading; In regard to the genus Ischyrosaurns which was 

 also originally referred to the Mammalia, Dr. Leidy objected that 

 his modified views had not also been quoted iu the before-men- 

 tioned bulletin. Prof. Cope stated that he had already reprinted 

 those later views in tlie Extinct Batractria and Reptilia of North 

 America, ji. 39, as follows; "altiiougli I have supposed the remains 

 ... to indicate ... an animal allied to the manatee . . . I have 

 auspecied that the}" have belonged to an aquatic reptile unlike an}'^ 

 known." 



December 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



Notices of Rhizopods. Prof. Leidy remarked that in the last 

 number of the Arch'iv fur Mikroskopische Anatomie^ presented 

 this evening, there was an interesting paper b}' F. E. Schulze, 

 entitled Studies of the Rhizopods. With the exception of one 

 new species, all of those represented in one of the accompanying 

 plates, Taf. V., which had been previously described by others, he 

 was familiar with, as common in the vicinit}^ of Philadeli)hia. The 

 genera and species are as follows : Euglypha alveolafa, Dujardin ; 

 E. comp7-essa, Cuvtev ; E. globosa, Gavtev; Trinema acinus^ Bii- 

 jardiu ; and Cyphoderia margaritacea^ Schlumberger. Besides 

 these, of nearly related forms, he had found Euglypha spinosa^ 

 Carter, and several other species apparently undescribed. 



1. Euglypha alveolata, Dujardin. E. tuberculata, Duj. 

 ? Difflarjia setlgera, Ehi'euberg. 



This species has an egg-shaped test, with over-lapping elliptical 

 scales which in one focus appear hexagonal in outline. The oral 

 scales are acute, and minutely denticulate. From two to six or 

 more spines project from the sides of the fundus of the test. The 

 largest specimens measure 0.132 mm. long, 0.08 mm. broad, with 

 the moutli 0.028 mm. The smallest ones measured 0.08 mm. long, 

 0.04 mm. broad, with the mouth 0.016 mm. Tliis species is com- 

 mon in the ponds and ditches in the neighborhood of the city. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. Euglypha compressa, Carter. ? Difflugia ciliata, Ehrenberg. 



Test flatteiied-ovoid ; lateral border obtuse, and furnished with 

 spines towards the fundus. Surface of test covered with scales as 

 in the former species. Oral scales angular and denticulated. The 

 largest specimens measured 0.1 mm. long, 0.06 mm. broad, and 

 0.03 wide or thick ; with the mouth 0.052 broad, and 0.026 wide. 

 Smaller ones measured 0.08 mm. long, 0.036 broad, and 0.024 wide. 



Abundant at Absecom, N. J. 



From the same locality I obtained larger specimens of the same 

 form, but without spines, and also larger specimens covered with 

 spines over three-fourths of the l)road surfaces, as well as on the 

 lateral borders. I propose, at a fitting opportunity, to investigate 

 these still further, before expressing an opinion in regard to their 

 identity with E. compresaa. 



3. Euglypha spinosa, Carter. 



Test compressed-oval ; lateral borders subacute, and furnished 

 with narrow delicate dagger-like spines ; mouth unusually broad, 

 and narrow. Surface of test covered with oval scales, as in the 

 former species, but the oral row does not project beyond the mar- 

 gin of the mouth. The specimens usually measure 0.112 mm. long, 

 0.072 mm. broad, and 0.036 wide; with the mouth 0.048 broad, 

 and 0.008 wide. 



This remarkable species is abundant at Absecom, and at Lake 

 Hattacawanna, N. J. 



4. Euglypha cristata, n. s. 



Test oblong, or cylindro-ovoid, covered with elliptical scales as 

 in the preceding species. With from four to six projecting angu- 

 lar, finely denticulated oral scales. With a tuft of six spines 

 radiant from the very summit of the test. The largest specimens 

 measure 0.05 mm. long by 0.018 broad, with the mouth 0.01 broad. 

 The smallest are 0.04 long by 0.012 broad, witii the mouth 0.008 

 broad. 



A small and apparently well-marked species, common at Abse- 

 com, X. J. 



5. Euglypha globosa, Carter 



Test globose or oval, with a short neck or rim to the mouth. 

 Surface covered with circular scales. The smallest species, approach- 

 ing in character the next genus. Length from 0.02S to 0.048, 

 breadth from 0.02 to 0.04 mm. 



Common at Absecom and Lake Hattacawanna, N. J. 



6. Euglypha brunnea, n. s. 



Test flattened-spheroidal, brown in colo?*, covered with imbri- 

 cate oval scales. Mouth transversely elliptical, with the edges 

 alwa^'s irregular or ragged. Length of largest specimens 0.1 mm., 

 breadth 0.088, and width 0.036, with the mouth 0.04 broad. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



Length of smallest specimen 0.08 mm., breadth 0.072 mm,, width 

 0.028 mm., with the mouth 0.028 mm. broad, and 0.008 mm. wide. 

 This species is anions; the most frequent at Absecom, at Longa- 

 coming, and at Lake Hattacawanna, X. J. 



7. Trinema acinus, Dujardin. Bifflngia enchelys, Ehr. Englypka pleurostoma, 



Carter. Eitghjpka e?ic/ie/y, Wallich. 



Test ovoid, often contracted towards the narrow extremity, 

 beneath which is the circular depressed nioutli. Surface of test 

 covered with circular scales. Length of largest specimens 0.1 

 mm. long, and 0.06 broad, with the mouth 0.024 broad. The 

 smallest specimens measure 0.036 long, by 0.016 broad. 



This species is common everywiiere, small ones having been 

 found in moss in the crevices of tlie bricks of the city pavements, 

 in shaded places. The largest specimens I have found in Absecom 

 Pond. 



8. Cyphoderia margaritacea, Schlumberger. Eit gh/f ha cnrvota, Verty. Evglypha 



viargarltacea, Wallicli. Ligynis baltica, Schultz. 



Test curved jiyriform, membranous, minutely and hexagonallj-^ 

 areolated. Mouth terminal, oblique, circular. The largest speci- 

 mens measured 0.L32 mm. long, 0.06 broad, with the mouth 0.02 

 wide ; the smallest specimen was 0.108 mm. long., 0.04 broad, with 

 the mouth 0.016 wide. 



The species I found in a spring at Darby Station, near Philadel- 

 phia. 



To til is same species I suspect the following forms belong, 

 described by Ehrenberg: Difflugia Lagena, D. adunca, 1). alaba- 

 mensis, D. ampulla^ and D. uncinata. 



9. ? Corycia, Dujarrlin ; ? Paviphagus, Baily ; ? Plpwophrys scutiformis, Hertwig 



ami Lesser ; perhaps Pleuropluys cylindrica, Claparede and Laclimann. 



Test thin, hyaline, membranous, colorless, structureless, flattened 

 ovate or scutiform, with acute borders, with an acute, subacute, 

 or transverselj' obtuse fundus. Mouth small, inconspicuously 

 defined, sometimes with the appearance of a C-like lip. Pseudo- 

 pods long, filiform, acutely branching and radiant from the mouth. 

 Protoplasm clear, granular, with a large nuclear vesicle, and one 

 or more contractile vacuoles. The animal moves slowly with the 

 test erect, and it feeds on diatomes, desmids, etc. The largest 

 specimens measured were 0.1 mm. long, by 0.06 broad, and 0.02 

 wide ; tlie smallest 04 long, 0.028 broad, and 0.012 wide. 



Found in a spring at Darby Station, on the Westchester R. R., 

 Pa., and at Kirkwood Pond, on the Camden and Atlantic R. R., 

 New Jersey. 



This creature agrees well with the figures and description of 

 Plagiophrys scutiformis of Hertwig and Lesser (Archio f. 2Iik. 

 AnaL, 1874, Taf. iii., figs. ii. a, b, c), but iu size it rather accords 

 with the Plagiophrijs cylindrica of Claparede and Lachman. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Weathering of Bocks. Prof. Persifor Frazer, Jr., remarked 

 that the igneous rocks in tlie vicinity of Gettysburg, Pa., present 

 some curious phases of weatliering. The ridge along which our 

 forces were disposed during the battle at that place, consists of a 

 syenite which at a point opposite the position of our army's ex- 

 treme left wing (or Kound 'J'op) has broken off, and lies in huge 

 bowlders piled up with great irregularity, and presenting surfaces 

 sometimes many hundred yards in area. These surfaces are some- 

 times furrowed by channels cut into them by running water, and 

 intersecting in all directions so as to present the general appear- 

 ance of a Cyclopean wall. The furrows are about an inch in depth, 

 and the raised surfaces which they separate, though slightly dis- 

 colored, present no signs of perfect disintegration. The similitude 

 to a coarse wall built up of fragments of all sizes, is striking and 

 deceptive even on a close examination. 



In some cases, this entire furrowed surface is detached b^' a frac- 

 ture, wliich separates it as a mask from the normally constituted 

 mass beneath it, and in a few instances there were observed two 

 such shells one beneath the other. 



Tliis gave the whole rock a concretionary appearance wliich was 

 remarkable for the tolerably constant thickness of the shells, con- 

 sidering the want of homogeneousness of the rock. It raises an 

 interesting question of how rocks may assume this character by 

 weathering alone. 



December 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



Isaac S. Williams, R. M. Girvin, M.D., George I). McCreaiy, J. 

 Elmore McCreary, and Robert B. Cruice, M.D., were elected 

 members. 



Capt. J. H. Mortimer and M. C. Cook, of London, were elected 

 Correspondents. 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : 



THE LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that IGfiO additions have been 

 made to the library during tiie year 1814, being an excess of 324 

 above the number reported for 1873. 



Of these 235 were volumes, 1416 pamphlets and parts of periodi- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



cals, and 9 maps, charts, etc.; 120'7 were octavos, 388 quartos, 44 

 folios, 12 duodecimos, and 9 maps. 



They were derived from the following sources : 



Societies 801 Geo. H. Cook 2 



Editors 304 Engineer Department, U.S. A. . 2 



Authors 12.0 Dr. F. A. Hussler 1 



Wilson Fund 72 ; Geo. W. Tryon, Jr 1 



Isaac Lea 25 j Dr. J. H. Slack 1 



Department of the Interior . . 21;. J. H. Redfield 1 



Geological Survey of Sweden . 15 



Publishers 14 



Prof. Alex. Agassiz 12 



Smithsonian Institution . . . 

 Geological Survey of India . . 



Thomas Meehan 



Miss Amelia Priestnian . . . 

 Minister of Public Works, France 

 S. S. Haldeman 



Dr. Asa Gray 1 



Owen Biddle 1 



Geological Survey of New Zea- 



10 i land 1 



9 Commissioners of Public Charity, 



Pa 1 



Trustees of Liverpool Library . 1 



Trustees of N. Y. University . 1 



Pennsylvania R. R. Co. ... 1 



Two hundred and sixteen were purchased. 



The additions to the lil)rary were distributed to the several 

 departments as follows : 



Journals and Periodicals . . . 1110 

 Geology 89 



Conchology , 



Botany 



Medicine - . , 



General Natural History . , 



Bibliography 



History and Statistics . . . 



Entomology 23 



Ornithology 22 



Helminthology 22 



69 

 64 

 42 

 42 

 38 

 32 



Religion 20 



Physical Science 19 



Anatomy and Physiology . . 18 



Mineralogy 16 



Voyages and Travels 



Ichthyology 



Herpetology 



Education 



Mammalogy 



Chemistry 



11 

 9 

 4 

 4 

 3 

 3 



181 volumes, including 20 volumes of entomological pamphlets, 

 have been bound. 



The copying of the Geological Catalogue, which had been 

 revised and arranged at the end of 1873, has been completed. A 

 general card catalogue of the entire library has been commenced, 

 and the titles of all the volumes and pamphlets in the departments 

 of Entomology and Botany, the former numbering 1067, and the 

 latter 1024, have thus been recorded. The works in these depart- 

 ments have been numbered, so that their position on the shelves is 

 indicated by the entry on the card, and the advantages of this 

 arrangement have been found to be so great that the same system 

 of numbering and cataloguing will be extended to the other depart- 

 ments of the library as rapidly as may be. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



One hundred and thirty -one letters have been written during 

 the year to editors and societies, asking for a supply of such parts 

 and volumes as were necessary to complete the Academy's set of 

 their publications. In several cases the parts asked for have been 

 received alread}', and a large number of favorable answers may be 

 confidentl}' expected during the coming spring. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



Little has been done during the past j^ear in the arrangement 

 of the Museum of the Academy. Mr. Charles E. Parker, one of 

 the Curators, went over the alcoholic specimens, renewing the 

 alcohol, and otherwise securing their preservation. 



The contributions to the Museum during the year are as fol- 

 lows : 



Mammals. A Bat from Fort Randall, Dakota, pi'esented by 

 Dr. W. T. Thackeray, U.S. A. ; a Flying Squirrel from Texas, by 

 S. B. Buckley ; a large variety of the Cat, b}' A. Gr. B. Hinkle ; a 

 monstrous Pig, by W. Cox ; the skin of an Ant-eater, by an 

 unknown donor. 



Dr. A. M. Owen U. S.N., presented five human skulls from the 

 Fiji, Marquesas, and Sandwich Islands. 



Skeletons of a Cavia and a Muskrat were presented by Jacob 

 Geismar. 



Birds. Nineteen specimens, thirteen species of bird skins were 

 presented by a unknown donor. A small collection of bird skins, 

 from Nicaragua, was presented by Dr. John F. Bransford, U. S. N. 



A collection of North American birds' eggs, 141 specimens of 

 14 species, was presented b}'- Mr. E.Dickenson, of Springfield, Mass. 

 A collection of 69 species of birds' eggs and nests was presented 

 \>y the Smithsonian Institution. 



Jacob Geismar presented the skeleton of the Great-horned Owl, 

 and the skull of a Turkey. 



Reptiles., Amphibians., and Fishes. Seven serpents from the 

 Marquesas, South Sea Islands, and Australia, were presented by 

 Dr. A. M. Owen, U. S. N. Two Lizards from Armenia were pre- 

 sented by Rev. G. W. Coan, D.D. A largejar of South American 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



Reptiles was presented b\'' an unknown donor. An Amblystoma, 

 from Dakota, was presented by W. T. Thackeray. 



Six specimens of a viviparous fish from California were pre- 

 sented bjr ]\Iajor F. G. Smith ; four species of fishes from San 

 Domingo were presented by Wm. M. Gabb ; and a File-fish fi*om 

 Atlantic City was presented by Joseph Wilcox. 



General Collections. A large and miscellaneous collection of 

 fishes, mollusks, insects, crustaceans, echinoderms, etc., from the 

 Pacific Coast of America and Islands, was presented by Dr. Wm. 

 H. Jones, IJ. S. N. 



A collection in nine jars, of reptiles, fishes, mollusks, insects, 

 myriapods, radiates, etc., from Nicaragua, was presented by Dr. 

 John F. Bransford, U. S. N. ; six vials of insects, from South 

 America, were presented by an unknown donor; a collection of 

 34 alcoholic specimens of pelagic mollusks, bryozoa, crustaceans, 

 etc., was presented by Capt. Joliu II. Mortimer. 



Mollusks. A Pholas in bored rock, from Torbay, England, was 

 presented by Mr. Browse. A Boltenia, from Maine, was presented 

 by W. L. Mactier; specimens of Pecten Magellanicus, from Con- 

 necticut, by Dr. Leidj^ ; and six species of South American laud 

 shells, by an unknown donor. 



For other contributions in this department, see the Report of 

 the Conservator of the Conchological Section. 



Articulates. Six vials of South American insects were presented 

 by an unknown donor. A small collection of insects and spiders, 

 in alcohol, from Fort Randall, Dakota, was presented by Dr. W. 

 T.Thackeray, U.S.A. 



Two species of Pagurus, from Connecticut, were presented by 

 Dr. Leidy, and a Scolopendra, and a Tarantula, from the West 

 Indies, by Dr. John L. Le Conte. 



Radiates and Protozoa. Two si)ecies of Echini, from Connecti- 

 cut, were presented by S. F. Clark ; two species of Asterias, 

 from the same place, by Dr. Leidy ; an Actinia, and a Holothuria, 

 from Maine, by Wm. L. Mactier ; and a Coral, from the Sandwich 

 Islands, by Dr. Thomas H. Streets. 



Sixteen species of Sponges, from the Cuyades Islands, were pur- 

 chased. 



Fossils. A collection of cretaceous fossils, consisting of Inoce- 

 ramus, Baculites, other moUuscan remains, remains of fishes, etc., 

 from several localities in Dakota, and also a collection of rocks 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and tertiary fossils, mainly consisting of remains of Titanothe- 

 riuni Proutii, and Stylemys Nebrascensis, from near Red Cloud 

 Agency, Nebraska, was presented by Lieut. E. Crawford, U. S. A. 



Fourteen cretaceous fossils, from Texas, were presented by Dr. 

 A. H. Graham. Three cretaceous vertebrate fossils, from New 

 Jersey, were presented l>y W. H. Doughert3\ A small collection 

 of eocene fossils, consisting of remains of fishes, shells, etc., from 

 Yincentown, N. J., was presented by Col. T. M. Brj^-an. A molar 

 tooth of a Mastodon, from the same neighborhood, was presented 

 by the same gentleman. A collection of post-tertiary fossil shells, 

 from Hennepin Co., Minn., was presented b}- Mr. Thomas T. 

 Smith. 



A large slab of red sandstone with foot-tracks, and a fragment 

 of a fossil tree, from Portland, Conn., were presented by William 

 Strnthers. A slab of sandstone with fucoid remains, from Dau- 

 phin Co., Pa., was presented by Allen Walton. 



Plants. A collection of Californian and East Indian plants, 

 and one of Anderson's Willows, were presented by Prof. Asa Gray. 



A collection of Palmer's plants of Arizona and Southern Califor- 

 nia was presented by the TJ. S. Department of Agriculture. A 

 collection of plants of Colorado and Wyoming, made by Messrs. 

 Coulter, Brandajee, and Poulter, was presented b}' Prof. Thomas 

 C. Porter. 



Fifteen species of Arctic plants, from the voj^ageof the Polaris, 

 were presented by Dr. E. Bessels. 



Eighty-six Californian plants were presented by Miss S. P. 

 Monks; 8 species of Brazilian ferns, by Mr. J. H. Redfield ; and 

 1 species of a Californian plant, by Rachel L. Bodley. 



MineraU. Specimens of Quartz, Topaz, Feldspar, Cyanite, 

 Hisingerite, Tourmaline, Pyrite, 3 Scapolites, 2 Tremolites, Stau- 

 rolite, Stilbite, and Calcite. were presented by Mr. Joseph Jeanes. 



Specimens of Amethyst, Oligoclase, Tetrahedral Blende, Biotite, 

 Analcime, Stilbite, Mesolite, Acadialite, Corundum and Spinel, 

 and Staurolite, were presented hy Joseph Wilcox. 



Specimens of Cacoxene, Eniplectite, Scapolite, and Staurolite, 

 were presented by Clarence S. Bement. 



Other specimens presented are as follow: Seven polished Mar- 

 bles, by Geo. W. Thompson ; 2 Wulfenites, from Nevada, by Jas. 

 P. Carson ; Amethyst, and Feldspar with Quartz, from Siberia, b}^ 

 Dr. J. H. Linn ; a large Stalactite, from Crystal Cave, Berks Co., 




NATURAL RCTENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



by Mr. S. D. F. Kohler ; Amber, from New Jersey, by Dr. H. O. 

 Hyatt; do., by Col. T. aM. Bryan; Salt, by H. T. Darlington; 

 Breunerite, by C. F. Parker ; Livingstonite, from Mexico, by Sr. 

 Mariano Barcena ; and Limonite, Analeime, Stilbite, Heulandite, 

 and Cacholong, by Dr. Leidy. 



The collection of Minerals of the late Dr. Adam Seybert has 

 been deposited in the Academy b}' Mr. Henry Seybert. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF RECORDER OF BIOLOGICAL AND 

 MICROSCOPICAL SECTION. 



December 7th, 1874. 



In reviewing the events of our microscopical year, I think we 

 may find just cause for mutual congratulation, in the fact, that 

 although the number of original papers presented before the Sec- 

 tion has been less than on some previous occasions, yet we have 

 in the past twelve months done more than almost ever before, to 

 popularize a knowledge of the wonders of microscopic investio-a- 

 tion, to interest the community in our special branch of natural 

 science, and to convince the citizens of Philadelphia that we form 

 a living active department, of an Association well worthy of more 

 general encouragement, as well as of more bountiful pecuniar}^ 

 aid. 



These important objects have of course been chiefly advanced 

 bj'the successful management of our two semi-annual Exhibitions, 

 the latter, and more satisfactory of which, was contributed to by 

 eminent microscopists of New York and Boston, as well as of 

 Philadelphia, and was witnessed by nearly one thousand of our 

 citizens. " The microscopes" (to quote from the report of Dr. J. 

 H. McQuillen, Chairman of the Committee), "forty in number, were 

 arranged on tables in three rooms of the librar}^, and the principal, 

 if not the only drawback of the exhibition, was the contracted 

 space and the impossibility of properly accommodating the large 

 number of persons present." 



During the year original communications were presented by Dr. 

 James Tyson, "On a Setof Barth's Classified Specimens in Patho- 

 logical Anatomy," by Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt, on his novel and 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



beautiful method of "Double Staining Vegetable Structures," by 

 which certain portions of a plant may be colored green in situ 

 without dissection, whilst other parts are tinted violet ; b^' Mr. 

 D. S. Holman, on his veiy ingenious " Siphon Life Slide ;" andb}' 

 J. G. Richardson, " On the Supposed Hepatic Structure in the 

 Connecting Band of the Siamese Twins," "On the Value of High 

 Powers in the Diagnosis of Blood Stains," and " On the Perform- 

 ance of Two One-Fiftieth Objectives." 



Most of these communications gave rise to copious discussions 

 among our members, eliciting a variety of opinions in regard to 

 the subject under consideration, and it is to be hoped materially 

 advancing the cause of science, by the establishment of some new 

 and positive facts. The debates, as reported for the columns of 

 the Philadelphia Medical Times., have possessed so much general 

 interest to the Medical profession, that they continue to be warmly 

 welcomed by the editors of that valuable journal. 



The improved method of announcing the date of meeting, with 

 the title, etc., of some communication to be made and discussed, 

 by the employment of the United States Postal cards, has contri- 

 buted largely to the interest of our sittings, and at a decreased 

 expense. 



All of which is respectfully submitted by 



Jos. G. Richardson, Recorder. 



REPORT OF CONSERVATOR OF CONCHOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfull}-^ re- 

 ports that the following additions have been made to the Cabinet 

 during the year 1874 : 



Jeanes., Jos. Fourteen species of Terrestrial Mollusks, from 

 Mauritius and Madagascar. 



Smithsonian Institution. Eight species of fresh-water shells 

 from Colorado. 



Lea, Isaac. Anodonta Leonensis, Lea ; A. Ferussaciana, Lea, 

 from Fort Hayes, Kansas, and Ancijlus, from Florida, 



Bransford, Dr. J. F. Several species of Mollusks from Nica- 

 ragua. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Jones, Dr. Wm,, U. S. N. Mollusks in alcohol from the Pacific 



Coast of America. 

 Leidy, Dr. Jos. Specimens of Pecten Magellanicus from Noank, 



Conn. 

 Mortimer, Capt. J. H. Thirty-four alcoholic specimens of Oceanic 



Mollusca beautifully prepared. 

 Sixteen species of Terrestrial Mollusks, from Mauritius and 



Madagascar, were purchased. 



At the last meeting of the Academy the reception of the Terres- 

 trial Shells of the Swift Collection was announced, and the thanks 

 of the Academy were ordered to be conveyed to Mr. Thomas Bland, 

 for the care exercised by him in labelling, arranging, and forward- 

 ing the specimens. The remaining part of the collection is now 

 in the hands of Prof. 0. A. L. Morch, of Copenhagen, to whom 

 it had been sent for determination. The two portions form the 

 finest collection of West Indian shells in existence, and when 

 arranged in our Cabinet will be a valuable addition to a collec- 

 tion which is alread}^ one of the largest in the world. 



Apart from arranging the specimens received during the year, 

 the work of the Section has been confined to the preparation of a 

 reference index to the collection, the arrangement of which, as I 

 had the pleasure of reporting last 3^ear, was completed during 

 1873. This index, embracing 1574 generic and family names, was 

 rendered necessary by the extent of the collection, and has been 

 found of great service by those wishing to examine particular spe- 

 cies. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., Conservator. 



The election of Officers for 1875 was held in accordance with 

 the by-laws, with the following result: 



President . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Presidents . . Jos. Carson, M.D., 



John L. LeConte, M.D. 



Recording Secretary . Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary Edw. D. Cope. 



Treasurer . . , Wm. C. Henszey. 




236 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Librarian 

 Curators 



Publication Committee 



Council 



Finance Committee 



Eclw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



Jos. Leidy, M.D., 

 Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Geo. W. Try on, Jr., 

 Chas. F. Parker. 



Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



John L. LeConte, M.D., 

 R. S. Kenderdine, M.D., 

 Edw. S. Whelen, 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 

 Anbrey H. Smith, 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1874. 



MEMBERS. 



January 27. Geo. De B. Keim, Henry Tagg, Charles S. Whelen, 

 Henry A. Muhlenberg, Charles W. Macfarlane. 



March 3. General Isaac J. Wistar, General William Lilly, Sam- 

 uel J. Reeves, John F. Weightman, M.D., John T. Sharpless, 

 M.D., John B. Fearse, William M. Bowrou. 



May 5. Charles P. Perot, Reuben Haines, G. Schwarz, Gallo- 

 way C. Morris, Dr. John M. Coles, U. S. N., Hugh Hamilton, M.D. 



May 26. Thos. Hockley, William A. Stokes, John Shallcross, 

 Alfred G. Reed, J. E. Kingsley, Louis A. Godej^, Richard J. 

 Duuglison, M.D. 



October 1. Karl Seller, M.D., Charles Baeder,Charles B. Baeder, 

 William Adamson, Wm. B. Adamson, George Washington Smith, 

 J. E. Mitchell, Charles Parrish, Hon. John Leiseuring, Charles 

 Dutilh, Mrs. Amelia D. Hockley, Charles W. Poultne3\ 



October 27 Dr. A. M. Ovven, U. S. N., John B. Robinson, 

 TJ. S, N., Daniel Maul, Mrs. Elizabeth Y. Graham, Charles H. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 231 



Howell, James Dougherty, John Rothermel, Wm. Macdowall, W. 

 S. Bissel. 



November 24. Miss Adelme S. Tryon, Paul Beck, George 

 Gerry White, James G. Pease, Prof. Geo. P. Barker, W. J. Hoflf. 

 man, M.D., Joseph D. Potts, David E. Dallam, W. W. Jefferis. 



December 29. Isaac S. Williams, R. M. Girvin, M.D., Geo. D. 

 McCrearj^, J. Elmore McCreary, Robt. B, Cruice, M.D. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 27. James Stevenson, U. S. Geol. Survey. 



Hay 5. Don Antonio del Castillo, of Mexico; Don Mariano 

 Barcena, of Mexico ; Don Jos^ Joaquin Arriago, of Mexico. 



October 1. A. L. Siler, of Osmer, Utah ; J. Fayrer, M.D., of 

 Calcutta; Peter MacOwan, of Somerset, South Africa; H. W. 

 Hollenbush, of Reading. 



October 2Y Dr. A. E. Carothers, of Saltillo, Mexico. 



December 29 Capt. J. H. Mortimer; M. C. Cook, of London. 




238 CORRESPONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY. 



For 18t4. 



January. Boston Society of Natural History, acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 



Davenport Academy of Natural Sciences, soliciting a copy of the Consti- 

 tution and By-Laws of the Academy. 



Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool, with Proceedings and 

 soliciting the publications of the Academy in exchange. 



H. W. Hollenbush, accompanying a stalactitic formation. 



H. Dexter, in relation to bust of Prof. L. Agassiz. 



February. Linnean Society of London, acknowledging receipt of publi- 

 cations. 



American Institute of Mining Engineers, Philadelphia, accompanying 

 Transactions. 



W. P. Breed, with resignation as a member. 



Kevue Scientifique, Paris. 



Societe Royale des Sciences a Upsal. 



Die Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien, accompanying 

 publications. 



March. Lyceum of Natural History of New York ; 



Essex Institute, Salem, Mass ; 



Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool ; severally acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



S. V. Summers, in relation to an Entomological Survey. 



A. Morgan, soliciting an exchange of publications. 



J. F. Weightman, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as a 

 member. 



Eugene C. Skinner, soliciting a copy of the Constitution, etc., of the 

 Academy. 



I. J. Wistar, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as a member, 



Middlesex Mechanics' Association, Lowell, Mass., stating the object of 

 the association. 



Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, accompanying botanical 

 specimens. 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaff of Basel. 



Die Physicalisch-Medicinische Gesellschaft in Wiirtzburg. 



Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. 



Der Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fiir das Fiirstenthum Liineburg. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 239 



Directenr du Jardin Imperial Botanique, St. Petersbourg. 

 Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural, Mexico. 

 Naturwisseuschaftliclie Verein zu Bremen. 

 Konigliche offeutliche Bibliothek zu Dresden. 

 Die Kaiserliche Universitats und Landes Bibliothek, Strasburg. 

 Das Bibliothekariat der Konigliche Bayerische Akademie der Wisson- 

 schaften. 

 Societe Entomologique de Russie, St. Petersburg. 

 Die Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen. 



April. Belfast Nat. History Society ; 

 Lyceum of Natural History, New York ; 



Yale College, New Haven ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions, 



Hurd & Houghton, with circular. 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta, with publication. 



Dorpater Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Dorpat. 



Die Koniglich Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 



Konigl. Universitats Bibliothek, Kiel. 



M. Mouillefarine, Paris. 



Dr. Fred. Stein, Berlin. 



May. American Acad, of Arts and Sciences, Boston ; 



Philosophical Society of Glasgow; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York; 



Royal Society of London; 



Essex Institute, Salem ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



D. G. Brinton, with resignation as a member. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, soliciting a loan of specimens re- 

 lating to the Ethnology of the Esquimaux. 



Liverpool Free Public Library, Museum, and Gallery of Arts, with pub- 

 lication. 



Hammond Dugan, in relation to a picture. 



Universite Catholique de Louvain. 



Academie Royale des Sciences de Lisbonne. 



Academie Royale des Sciences a Amsterdam. 



L' Institute Royal Meteorologique des Pays-Bas, a Utrecht. 



Societe Hollaudaise des Sciences a Haarlem. 



Auftrag der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, Ziirich. 



June. Royal Geological Society, Dublin ; 



Harvard College, Cambridge; 



Essex Institute, Salem ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



New Jersey Commissioners of Fisheries, Bloomsbury, N. J. , with an in- 

 vitation to view the mode of hatching spawn. 



Smithsonian Institution, M'ith specimens for museum, and acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



Prof. James Orton, in reference to a bill for proceedings. 



Wm. Holden, desiring a copy of Hentz' Notice concerning a spider. 




240 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Die Obcrliessiche Gesellscliaft fiir Natur- nnd Heilkunde. 



L' Institute Royal Meteorologique des Pays-Bas, a Utrecht. 



Der Naturforscher-Vereiu zn Riga. 



Archives du Musee Tyler, a Haarlem. 



Der Bibl. Kais. Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien. 



Society Hollandaise des Sciences, a Haarlem. 



July. Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, Pest, with publications. 



B. Wilder, Jabez Hogg, Jos. D. Hooker, M.D., severally acknowledging 

 receipt of notice of election as correspondents. 



Dr. Macomber, resignation of membership. 



Wesley Creal, in relation to a Mastodon's tooth. 



Yale College, New Haven, acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Antonio del Castillo, acknowledging election as correspondent. 



Der Offenbacher Verein fiir Naturkunde. 



Academic Royale des Sciences, des Letters, et des Beaux-arts de Bel- 

 gique, transmitting publication. 



August. Cambridge University ; 

 Zoological Society of London ; 

 Leed's Philosophical and Literary Society ; 



British Museum ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 

 Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool, with publications. 

 Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, with publications. 

 Anales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires. 

 Academia National de Ciencias Exactas, Buenos Aires. 

 Der Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, zu Frankfurt 

 a. M. 

 Bureau de la Recherche Geologique de la Suede. 

 Naturforcher- Verein zu Riga. 

 Mariano Barcena, Mexico. 



September. New York State Library, Albany, with publications. 

 Dr. J. Heule and Jose Joaquin Arriago, Mexico, acknowledging election 

 as correspondents. 

 Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Kjobenhavn. 



October. New York Lyceum of Natural History, acknowledging receipt 

 of publications. 



Thos H. Streets, accompauying a specimen of coral. 



A. L. Siler, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as correspondent. 



Societe Linneenne de Bordeaux, with publications. 



November. Smithsonian Institution, Washington ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft of Basel ; 



Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia ; 



Belfast Museum ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Konigl. Bayerischen Universitjits Bibliothek, acknowledging receipt of 

 publications and desiring deficiencies. 



Thos. Frazer, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as corre- 

 spondent. 




CORRESPONDENCE. ' 241 



Die Kouigl. Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wisscuscliaften. 



Auftrasf des Aerztliclien Verein iu Frankfurt. 



Das Museum des Konigreiches Bohmen. 



Konigliche Universitiitsblbliothek, Wurtzburg. 



Der Bibliothekar der K. Baj^erisclien Akademia der Wissenschaften. 



Die Kouigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingeu. 



Der Verwaltungs-Ansschuss des Ferdinandeums zu Innsbruck. 



Physicalisch-Medicinische Gesellschaften in Wurtzburg. 



Der Naturforschende Verein in Briiun. 



Verein fiir Vaterliindische Naturkuude, in Wiirttemberg. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. 



Mariano Barcena, acknowledging election as correspondent. 



December. Smithsonian Institution, Washington ; 



New York Lyceum of Natural History ; 



Yale College ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Chicago Academy of Sciences, acknowledging receipt of specimens. 



State Normal School, Mansfield, Tioga Co., Pa., desiring Geological 

 specimens for a Cabinet. 



Academic des Sciences et Letters de Montpelier, asking for a supply of 

 deficiencies. 



Dr. Wm. B. Corbit, with resignation as a member. 



Robt. Ridgway, desiring permission to study and to catalogue the Fal- 

 conidse. 



W. J. Hoffman, desiring to become a member. 



R. J. Dunglison, James 0. Pease, Geo. Gerry White, severally acknow- 

 ledging receipt of notice of election as members. 



Bataafsch Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte te Rotter- 

 dam. 



Congres International des Sciences Geographiques, Paris. 



Societe Hollaudaise des Sciences a Haarlem. 



Societe Entomologique de Belgique. 



Prof. Peter MacOwan, Somerset, S. Africa, acknowledging election as 

 correspondent. 



Which is respectfully submitted by 



E. D. COPE, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




242 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY, 18U. 



Agardh, J. G. Til Algernes Systematik. Nya bidrag af J. G. Agardh. 



From the Author. 

 Agassiz, Prof. Louis. Catalogus Systematicus Ectyporum Echiuodermatum 

 Fossilium Musei Neocomensis. Neocomi Helvetorum, 1840. 

 Description des Echinodermes Fossiles de la Suisse ; Ire et 2e Partie. 



Neuchatel, 1839. 

 On Ichthyological Fauna of the Pacific Slope of North America. 

 Contemplations of God in the Kosmos. 

 On the Principles of Classification in the Animal Kingdom. 

 On Extraordinary Fishes from California. 

 On the Origin of Species. 



The Primitive Diversity and ISTvimber of Animals in Geological Times. 

 Contributions to the Natural History of the Acalephte of North 



America. 

 Iconographie des Coquilles Tertiaires. Neuchatel, 1845. 

 Histoire Naturelle des Poissons d'Eau Douce de I'Europe Centrale. 

 2e Livr. Neuchatel. From Alex. Agassiz. 

 Allen, J. A. Notes on the Mammals of portions of Kansas, Colorado, 

 Wyoming, and Utah. 

 Metamorphism produced by the Burning of Lignite Beds in Dakota 



and Montana. 

 Geographical variations in North American Birds. 

 On the Geographical variation in Color among North American Birds. 

 From the Author. 

 Anderson School of Natural History at Penikese Island, Organization of 



the. Report of the Trustees for 1873. From the Trustees. 

 Austin, Coe F. Hepaticse Boreali-Americanse. Closter, N. J., 1873. 



From the Author. 

 Baird, S. F. United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Eeport on 

 the Condition of the Sea Fisheries of the South Coast of New Eng- 

 land in 1871 and 1872. Washington, 1873. From the Author. 

 Baird, S. F., T. M. Brewer, R. Ridgway. A History of North American 

 Birds. Vols. I., II., and III., Land-Birds. Boston, 1874. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Baker, Sir Saml. White. Ismailia ; A Narrative of the Expedition to Cen- 

 tral Africa for the Suppression of the Slave Trade organized by 

 Ismail, Khedive of Egypt. New York, 1875. Purchased. 

 Bancroft, Hubert Howe. The Native Races of the Pacific States of North 



America. Vol. I., Wild Tribes. New York, 1874. Purchased. 

 Barcena, Mariano. Viaje a la Caverna de Cacahuamilpa. Mexico, 1874. 



From the Author. 

 Barratt, J., M.D. Fossil Wonders of a former World. From the Author. 

 Baumhauer, E. H. von. Sur un Meteorographe Universel destine aux 



Observatoires Solitaires. Harlem, 1874. From the Author. 

 Bechler, G. R. Map of the Lower Geyser Basin on the Upper Madison 



River. From U. S. Geol. Sur. of Territories. 

 Belt, Thos. The Naturalist in Nicaragua. London, 1874. Purchased. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 243 



Benson, Lawrence S. My visit to the Sun ; or, Critical Essays on Physics, 



Metaphysics, and Ethics. Vol. I., Physics. New York, 1874. From 



the Author. 

 Binney, W. G. Notes on American Land Shells. Vol. IL Part II. 8vo. 



Burlington, 1874. From the Author. 

 Bland, Thos. Description of a new species of Helix, and Note on H. 



Mobiliana, Lea. From the Author. 

 Bland, Thos., Binney, Wm. G. On the Lingual Dentition and Anatomy 



of Achatinella and other Pulmonata. 

 Bosgoed, D. IMulder. Bibliotheca Ichthyologica et Piscatoria. Harlem, 



1874. From the Author. 

 Bouvier, A. Catalogue des Collections Ornithologiques en vente chez A. 



Bouvier. Paris, 1874. From the Publisher. 

 Brady, Geo. Stewardson, D. Roberts. Contributions to the Study of the 



Entomostraca. Two pamphlets. Aug. 1873, and Feb. 1874. From 



the Authors. 

 Brefeld, Dr. Oscar. Botanische Untersuchungen iiber Schimmelpilze. II. 



Heft. Leipzig, 1874. Purchased. 

 Brenchlev, Julius L. Jottings during the Cruise of H. M. S. Curacoa 



among the South Sea Islands in 1865. 8vo. London, 1873. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Broadhead, G. C, F. B. Meek, B. F. Shumard. Reports on the Geologi- 

 cal Survey of the State of Missouri, 1855-1871. 1 vol. 8vo. Jeffer- 

 son City, 1873. 

 Geological Survey of Missouri. Preliminary Report on the Iron Ores 



and Coal Fields from the Field Work of 1872. 1 vol. 8vo. New 



York, 1873. With Atlas of 9 Maps. Folio. From G. C. Broadhead. 

 Bronn, Dr. H. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier Reichs. 5er Band, 



17 Lief; 6er Band, 5 Abth, 2 and 3 Lief. Leipzig, 1874. From the 



Wilson Fund. 

 Brown, Thomas. The Conchologist's Text-Book. Glasgow, 1837. From 



Dr. Hassler. 

 Bruce, James. Travels to discover the Source of the Nile in the years 



1768-1773. Second Edition. Vol. VIII., containing the plates and 



maps. Edinburgh, 1805. From Miss Amelia Priestman. 

 Bulard. Observations Meteorologique, Janvier et Fevrier 1871. Alger, 



1874. From R. S. Mason. '^ 

 Observatoire d' Alger. Ire Partie Panorama Meteorologique du Climat 



d' Alger. Observations Meteorologiques. 33 Tableaux, 1 Tableau 



Graphique. Jan. 1872. 2 folio pamphlets and 1 large chart. From 



R. S. Mason. 

 Observatoire d' Alger Resume Meteorologique des Deuxieme et Troi- 



sieme Trimestres 1868 et Mars, Avril et Mai, 1871. 2 tracts. From 



R. S. Mason. 

 An Abstract from the Meteorological Observatory of Algiers. From 



Richard S. Mason. 

 Secheresse et Inondations. Necessite de Reboisement. Alger 1873. 



From R. S. Mason. 

 Bureau of Statistics of Labor and Agriculture, First Annual Report of the, 



1872-73. Harrisburg, 1874. '"From the Bureau. 

 Biitschli, Dr. O. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der freilebenden Nematoden. 



Dresden, 1873. Purchased. 

 Cabrera, Florencio. Descubrimiento y Estudio del Bismuto. From the 



Author. 

 Calkins, W. W. The Land and Fresh-water Shells of La Salle Co., 111. 



Chicago, 1874. From the Author. 

 Carli, Luigi. Risposta all lettera del Rev. P. Gio. Maria Cornokli sul 



Colera e suoi rimedi. 




244 , ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Osservazioni sul progetto di Prosciugamento delle Valli di Comacchio. 

 Alcunc parole di Comforto al C'omuni di Massafiscaglia, etc. 

 Apologia del Beneficio parroccliiale in Specie di Lagosanto. From the 

 Author. 

 Catalogue of the Liverpool Free Public Library, First Supplement to the. 



1873. From the Trustees. 

 Catalogue of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard College. 

 No. VII. Revision of the Echini. Text, Part III. ; Plates, Part 

 III. and IV. Cambridge, 1873. From the Museum. 

 Catalogue of the Library of the Surgeon General's Office XJ. S. A. 3 vols. 



4to. Washington, 1873. From the Surgeon General. 

 Catalogue of the Photographs of the U. S. Geo. Surv. of the Territories. 



Washington, 1874. (Misc. Publ. No. 5.) From the Survey. 

 Central Colorado. Preliminary Map of U. S. Geol. Surv. of Territories. 

 Chautres, Ernest. Projet d'une Legende Internationale pour les Cartes 

 Archeologiques prehistoriques. Lyon, 1874. 

 Les Faunes Mammalogiques tertiaire et quaternaire du Bassin du 



Rhone. Lyon, 1874. 

 L' Age de la Pierre et I'Age du Bronze en Troade et en Grece. From the 

 Author. 

 Chittenden, Geo. B. U. S. Geol. Surv. of the Territories. Miscellaneous 

 Publ. No. 6. Meteorological Observations made during the year 

 1873 and the early part of the year 1874, in Colorado and Montana 

 Territories. Washington, 1874. From the Dep. of Interior. 

 Cobbold, T. Spencer. Fatal Epidemic affecting Ponies. Parasitism in 

 Australia. 

 Observations on rare Parasites from the Horse. 

 Parasites, and the part they play in the Economy of Nature. 

 Observations on Hsematozoa. 

 Remarks on the Entozoa and Ectozoa of Fish. 

 Entozoa in Beef. 



Krabbe on the Intestinal Worms of Domesticated Animals. 

 Revised List of Entozoa, with notes and references. Nos. 1 and 2. 

 Parasites and Parasitic Diseases. 

 The Grouse Disease. 



Description of a new Generic Type of Entozoon from the Aard Wolf. 

 Notes on Entozoa, Parts 1 and 2. 



Opening of the Winter Session of the Royal Veterinary College, Oct. 

 1, 1873. Introductory Address. From the Author. 

 College Reports, Catalogues, etc. From the Publishers. 

 Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of New Zealand. James Hector, 

 M.D., Director. Eighth Annual Report and Meteorological Report, 

 1873. Wellington, 1873-74. From the Director. 

 Cooke, Josiah P., Jr. The Vermiculites. From the Author. 

 Commission of Fish and Fisheries U. S. Part II. Report of the Commis- 

 sioners for 1872 and 1873. Washington, 1874. From the Commis- 

 sioner. 

 Cope, E. D. Bulletin of the United States Geol. and Geographical Survey 

 of the Territories, No. 2. Review of the Vertebrataof the Cretaceous 

 Period found west of the Mississippi River. From the Department 

 of the Interior. 

 On the Plagopterinse and the Ichthyology of Utah. From the Author. 

 On the Homologies and Origin of the Types of Molar Teeth of Mammalia 

 Educabilia. Philadelphia, 1874. From the Author. 

 Cox, E. T., J. Collett, W. W. Borden, Dr. G. M. Levette. Fifth Annual 

 Report of the Geological Survey of Indiana, made during the year 

 1873. 8vo. Indianapolis, 1874. From G. M. Levette. 

 Dall, W. H. Notes on Prehistoric Remains in the Aleutian Islands. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 245 



Oil Further Examinations of the Amak-Cave, Captains Bay, Unahiska. 



From the Author. 

 Preliminary Description of New Species of MoUusca from tlie Coast of 



Ahxska. 

 Catalogue of Shells from Behring Strait, etc. 

 Notes ou some Tertiary Fossils from the California Coast, etc. 

 On New Parasitic Crustacea, from the N. W. Coast of America. 

 Remarks of W. H. Dall on the Death of Dr. John Torrey. From the 

 Author. 



Dawkins, W. Boyd. Cave Hunting, Researches on the Evidence of Caves 

 respecting the Early Inhabitants of Europe. London, 1874. Pur- 

 chased. 



Dawson, Geo. M. British North American Boundary Commission. Geo- 

 logical Report of Progress for the year 1873 (in part). Report ou 

 the Tertiary Lignite Formation. Montreal, 1874. From the Author. 



Dawson, J. W. Notes on the Post-Pliocene Geology of Canada. From 

 the Author. 



Des Cloiseaux, A. Manuel de Mineralogie. Tome Second, ler Fasc. 

 Paris, 1874. Purchased. 



Deutsche Nordpolarfahrt in den Jahren 1869 und 1870. 2er Band. Wis- 

 senschaftliche Ergebnisse, Ite Abtli. Leipsig, 1874. Purchased. 



Dollinger, J. von. GedJichtnisse-Rede auf Konig Johann von Sachsen. 

 Miinchen, 1874. From the Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 



Duiiker, Dr., Zittel, Dr. Pala?ontographica. Herausgegeben von Drs. 

 Dunker und Zittel, 22 Band, 4e Lief, 1873, undliO Band, 2 Abth. 

 4e, 5e, und 7e Lief. From the Wilson Fund. 



Finer, Dr. Theodore. Zoologische Studien auf Capri. Leipzig, 1873. 



Elliott, D. G. A Monograph of the Pfiradiseidaj or Birds of Paradise. 

 Parts IV.-VII. From the Wilson Fund. 



Engleman, Geo. Notes on the Genus Yucca. From the Author. 



Fiasch, Dr. O. Monographic der Gattung Certhiola. From the Author. 



Fiusch, O., and P. Conrad. Ueber eiue Vogelsammlung aus Ostasien. 

 From the Author. 



Fischer, M., M. H. Crosse. Mission Scientifique au Mexique, etc. Re- 



cherches Zoologiques, 7me Partie. Etudes sur les Mollusques 



Terrestres et Fluviatiles. Paris, 1873. From Geo. W. Tryou, Jr. 

 Flint, Dr. Austin, Jr. The Physiology of Man. Vol. 5. Special Senses, 



Generation. New York, 1874. Purchased. 

 Fromentel, E. Etudes sur les Microzoaires ou Infusoires proprement dits. 



Fasc. I. Paris. Purchased. 

 Gegenbauer, Carl. Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomic. Leipzig, 1874. 



Purchased. 

 Geikie, Jas. The Great Ice Age and its Relation to the Antiquity of Man. 



New Y^ork, 1874. Purchased. 

 Geological Survey of Sweden, Publications of the. Nine octavo and two 



quarto tracts. From the Survey. 

 Giebel, Dr. C. G. Thesaurus Ornithologia, 3er Halbband. Leipzig, 1874. 



Purchased. 

 Insecta Epizoa. Fol. Leipzig, 1874. Purchased. 

 Goode, G. Brown. On the Question, Do Snakes swallow their Young. 



From the Author. 

 Gould, J. The Birds of Asia. Part XXV. London, 1874. From the 



Wilson Fund. 

 The Birds of Great Britain. Parts XXIII. , XXIV., and XXV. London, 



1874. 

 Grote, Aug. R. On Allied Species of Noctuidise inhabiting Europe and 



North America. From the Author. 

 List of the Noctuidse of North America. From the Author. 




246 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Haeckel, Ernest. Anthropogenie. EntwickelungsgeschichtederMensclien. 



Leipzig, 1874. Purchased. 

 NatiirliclieScbopfungsgescliichte. .5e Verbesserte Auflage, 8vo. Berlin, 



1874. Purchased. 

 Hall, Jas. Descriptions of Bryozoa and Corals of the Lower Helderberg 



Group. From the Author. 

 Descriptions of jSTew Species of Gouiatidte. From the Author. 

 Hanley, Sylvanus, Wm. Theobald. Conchologia Indica. Part 6. Lon- 

 don. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Hawkins, Dexter A. Report on Compulsory Education, Dec. 30, 1873. 



From the Author. 

 Hayden, J. V. Department of the Interior. Catalogue of the Publications 



of the United States Geological Survey of the Territories. From the 



Department. 

 Heushaw, H. W. Annotated List of the Birds of Utah. Salem, 1874. 



From the Author. 

 Hidalgo, .J. G. Moluscos Marines de Espana, Portugal y las Baleares. 



Entrega 8a. From the Author. 

 Hoyt, John W. A National University. From the Author. 

 Hugo, L. Les Cristalloides Complexes a Sommet Etoile. Paris, 1873. 

 Essai sur la Geometric des Cristalloides. Paris, 1873. 

 Introduction a la Geometric descriptive des Cristalloides. Paris, 1874. 



From the Author. 

 Theorie des Cristalloides elementaires. Paris, 1867. 

 Les Cristaloides a directrice Circulaire. Etudes Geometriques. Paris, 



1867. From the Author. 

 Hume, Allan. Nests and Eggs of Indian Birds. Rough Draft, Part I. 



Calcutta, 1873. From the Author. 

 Humphry, G. M. Observations on Myology. 8vo. Cambridge and Lon- 

 don, 1872. Purchased. 

 Jan, M. le. Prof. Iconographie General des Ophidiens par M. le Prof. 



Jan. 45me Livr. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Joly, Dr. N. Etude sur les Metamorphoses des Oxolotls du Mexique. 



Montpellier, 1873. 

 Etudes sur les Moeurs, le Developpement et les Metamorphoses d'un 



Petit Poisson Chinois du Genere Macropode (Macropodus Paradisi). 



Notice sur les Travaux Scieutifique du Docteur N. Joly. From the 



Author. 

 Joly, Dr. N. and Dr. A. Documents Nouveaux sur le Pygopage de Mazeres 



et sur Millie Christine. From the Authors. 

 Juranyi, Dr. L. Ueber die Entwickelung der Sporangien und Sporen der 



Salvinia natans. Berlin, 1873. Purchased. 

 Kiener, L. C. Species General et Iconographie des Coquilles Vivantes. 



Livr. 139 et 140. Genre Turbo. Paris, 1873. Purchased. 

 Kingston, G. T. Third Report of the Meteorological Office of the Dominion 



of Canada, the fiscal year ended 30th of June, 1873. From the 



Author. 

 Klein, E. The Anatomy of the Lymphatic System. I. The Nervous Mem- 

 branes. 8vo. London, 1873. From the Royal Society, London. 

 Kokscharow, Nikolai v. Materien zur Mineralogie Russlands. Vols. 1-5, 



Vol. 6, pp. 1-344. Atlas plates 1-83. St. Petersburg, 1853-1874. 



Purchased. 

 Koninck, L. G. Recherches sur les Animaux Fossiles. 2me Partie. 



Bruxelles, 1873. From the Author. 

 Kiister, H. C. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und 



Chemnitz, ler Band, Heft 19 ; 9er Band, Heft 33. 35, 26 ; 3er Band, 



Heft 33, 33 ; 4er Band, Heft 12, 18 ; 9er Band, Heft 24, 27. From 



the Wilson Fund. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 247 



Lacordaire, Th., F. Chapius. Collection des Suites a Buffon. Insectes 

 Coleopteres. Tome X, Planches XI. Livr. Paris, 1874. From 

 the Wilson Fund. 



Lea, Isaac. Observations on the Genus Unio. Vol. XIII. Phila. 1874. 

 From the Author. 

 Notes on Microscopic Crystals included in some Minerals, etc. From 

 the Author. 



Lehmann, J. G. C. Monographia Generis Potentillarum. Hamburgi, 1820. 

 From J. H. Redfield. 



Leidy, Jos. Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Western 

 Territories. 4to. From the Department of the Interior. 



Levis, R. J., M.D. Skin Grafting. From the Author. 



Linder, M. Du Role de P Attraction Universelle et de la Resistance de 

 rather dans les Variations de M. Tyudall. From the Author. 



Lindsley, J. Berrian. On Prison Discipline and Penal Legislation. Nash- 

 ville, 1874. From the Author. 



Loher, Franz von. Ueber Deutschlands Weltstellung, Munchen, 1874. 

 From the Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 



Luse, J. P. Agassiz. A Lecture. Louisville, 1874. From the Author. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Preliminary Report on the First Season's Work 

 of the Geological Survey of Y esso. Tokei, 1874. From the Author. 



Magnetical Observatory, Toronto, Ontario, General Meteorological Register 

 for 1873. From the Observatory. 



Major, C. J. Forsyth. Note sur des Singes Fossiles Trouves en Italic, 

 Precedee d'un Aperqu sur les Quadrumanes Fossiles en Generale. 

 From the Author. 



Mallet, Robt. The Eruption of Vesuvius, in 1872, by Prof. Luigi Palmieri, 

 with Note, etc. by Robt. Mallet. London, 1873. Purchased. 



Marcoy, Paul. Travels in South America, from the Pacific Ocean to the 

 Atlantic Ocean. Vols. I. and II. New York, 1875. 



Marey, E. J. Animal Mechanism ; A Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial 

 Locomotion. New York, 1874. Purchased. 



Marsh, 0. C. Notice of New Equine Mammals from the Tertiary Forma- 

 tion. From the Author. 

 Fossil Horses in America. From the Author. 

 On the Structure and Affinities of the Broutotherid?e. From the 



Author. 

 Notice of New Tertiary Mammals. From the Author. 



Martin, Alexander. Manuel de T Amateur d'Huitres. Paris, 1828. From 

 Prof. Haldeman. 



Martyn, Thomas. The Universal Conchologist, exhibiting the figures of 

 every known Shell, accurately drawn and painted after nature, with 

 a new Systematic Arrangement by the author. 16 Great Marlborough 

 Street, London, 1789. A very fine copy containing the 80 plates of 

 vols. 1 and 2, bound in 1. From Miss Amelia Priestman through 

 Mr. Vaux. 



Mcintosh, W. C, M.D. A Monograph of the British Annelids, and con- 

 tinuation. Part 1. The Nemerteaus. London, 1873-74. Ray 

 Society's volumes for 1872-73. Purchased. 



McOwen. Catalogue of South African Plants. From the Author. 



Meunier, Stanislaus. Cours de Geologic Comparee Professe an Museum 

 d'Histoire Naturelle. 8vo. Paris, 1874. From the Author. 



Miller, E. S., H. W. Young. Catalogue of the Phaenogamous Plants of 

 Suffolk Co., Long Island. 1874. From the Authors. 



Milne, Edwards H. Leqons sur la Physiologic et I'Anatomie Comparee de 

 r Homme et des Animaux. Tome lOme, 2me Partie. Paris, 1874. 

 Purchased. 




248 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Minnesota, The Geological and Natural Histor}^ Survey of. 3d Annual 

 Report. St. Paul, 1874. From tlie Minnesota Academy of Natural 

 Sciences. 

 Monroe, Henry S., E. M. Geological Survey of Hokkaido. Yesso Coal. 



Tokei, 1874. From the Author. 

 Morch, O. A. L. Catalogue des Mollusques Terrestres et Fluviatiles des 

 Anciennes Colonies Danoises du Golfe du Bengale. From the Author. 

 Museum Godeffroy, Journal des. Ileft II.-V. Catalogue V. Hamburg, 



1878-74. Purchased. 

 Neville, G. and H. Descriptions of new Marine Mollusca from the Indian 



Ocean. From the Authors. 

 New Jersey, Geological Survey of. Annual Report for the year 1873. 



With Map of Northern New Jersey. 1874. From Geo. II. Cook. 

 Newton, Albert. The Zoological Record for 1872 ; being vol. <Jlh of the 

 Record of Zoological Literature. 8vo. London, 1874. Purchased. 

 Ordinaire, Abbe. The Natural History of Volcanoes. London, 1801. 



From Prof. Haldemau. 

 Orsted, A. S. Prpecursores Floroe Centroamericante. Fragmentum Pos- 



thumum. HavuifE, 1873. Purchased. 

 Packard, A. S., Jr. Third Annual Report on the Injurious and Beneficial 

 Insects of jNIassacliusetts. From the Author. 

 Descriptions of New American PhaliBnidje and Phyllopoda. 

 On the Transformations of the Common House Fly, with notes on Allied 



Forms. From the Author. 

 Synopsis of the Thysauura of Essex Co., Mass. 

 Descriptions of new American Phalajuidfe. 

 Catalogue of the Phaljenida; of California. No. II. 

 Catalogue of the Pyralida? of California. 

 Further Observations on the Embryology of Limulus. 

 Record of American Entomology for the year 1872. Salem, 1873. 

 The Ancestry of Insects. From the Author. 

 Palacky, Dr. Jan. Asie pruodni Pomery. V. Praze, 1873. 



Amerika, Staticke Macrtky. I Stredni a Jazni Amerika. V. Praze, 

 1871. From the Hungarian Academy. 

 PalfBontographica. 32er Band, 5te Lief. Cassel, 1874. From the Wilson 



Fund. 

 Paleontologie Franqaise. Terrain Jurassique. ler Serie, Livr. 34 and 3o ; 

 3me Serie, Livr. 13. Animaux Invertebres, 26, 37, 38. 3e Serie 

 Vegetaux, Livr. 14, 15, IG, 17. 



Pander, Dr. C. H. UberdieSaurodipterinen, Dendrodonten, Glyptolepidon 



und Chcirolepiden des Devonischen Systems. St. Petersburg, 1860. 



With Atlas of 17 plates. Purchased. 

 Patti, Carmelo. Carta Geologica dclla Citta di Catania Diutorni. From 



the Genoese Academy. 

 Peckham, S. F., N. H. Winchell. The Geological and Natural History 



Survey of Minnesota. 3d Annual Report. 1873. St. Paul, 1874. 



From the Authors. 

 Pettigrew, J. Bell, M.D. Animal Locomotion, or Walking, Swimming, 



and Flying, with a dissertation on xieronautics. New York, 1874. 



Purchased. 

 PfeifJer, Dr. L. Synonymife Botanicre 1870 editre Supplementtum pri- 



mum curavit. Cassel, 1874. Purchased. 

 Nomenclator Botanicus. Vol. 1, Fasc. 3 to 34 ; Vol. 3, Fasc. 1 to 34. 



Cassellis, 1871-1872. Purchased. 

 Novitates Concliologicre. I. Abtheilungen Land-Conchylien. 44 and 



45 Lief. Supplement V., 4 and Lief. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Plaff, Dr. Friedrich. Algemeine Geologic als exacte Wissenschaft mit 



einen Anhange Geologische Versuche. Leipzig, 1873. Purchased. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 249 



Porter, Thos. C, and J. M. Coulter. Synopsis of the Flora of Colorado. 



Washington, 1874. (U. S. Geol. Surv. Piibl., No. 4.) From the 



Authors. 

 Preger, W. Die Entfaltung Idee des Menschen durch die Weltgeschichte. 



From the Author. 

 Priugsheim, N. Ueber den Gang der Morphologischen Differenzirung in 



dor Sphacelarien-Reiche. Berlin, 1873. From the Author. 

 Proceedings of the Nintli Anniversary of the University Convocation of the 



State of New York, held August, 1872. Albany, 1873. From the 



Regents of the University, N. Y. 

 Putnam, F. W. Notes on Ophidiidse and Fierasferidae. From the 



Authors. 

 Quetelet, Ad. Tables de ]\Iortalite ct leur Developpement. From the Author. 

 Recueil d'Histoire Naturelle Colorie. 1 vol. folio, containing 134 colored 



Plates. No title page. From Miss Amelia Priestman. 

 Report of the Committee on Fisheries of the State of N. J. Session of 1874. 



From J. H. Slack. 

 Report of the Investigating Committee of the Pennsylvania Railroad Com- 

 pany. Philadelphia, 1874. From the Company. 

 Report, Fifty-Sixth Annual, of the Trustees of the New York State Library 



tor the year 1873. From the Regents of the University of N. Y. 

 Report, Twenty-Fifth Annual, on the N. Y. State Museum of Natural 



History, 1873. From the Regents of the University of N. Y. 

 Report, Twenty-Third Annual, on the Condition of the State Cabinet of 



Natural History. From the Regents of the University of N. Y. 

 Reeve, Lovell. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 306-317. London, 1873. 

 Richardson, Wm. A. Annual Report oh the State of the Finances to the 



Forty-Third Congress, First Session. Washington, 1873. From the 



Author. 

 Rosenbusch, H. Mikroskopische Physiographic der Petrographisch 



wichtigen Mineralien. Stuttgart, 1873. Purchased. 

 Ruschenberger, Dr. W. S. W. Seventh Annual Report of the Board of 



Trustees of the Building Fund of the Acad. Nat. Sciences. Phila- 

 delphia, January, 1874. From the Trustees. 

 Rutimeyer, L. Ueber den Bau von Schale und Schadel del Lebenden und 



Fossilen Schildkroten. Basel, 1873. From the Author. 

 Sandberger, F. Die krystallinischen Gesteine Nassaus. From the Author. 

 Scammon, Chas. M. The Marine Mammals of the Northwestern Coast of 



North America, described and illustrated, together with an account 



of the American Whale Fishery. 4to. San Francisco, 1874. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Schlegel, H. Museum d'Histoire Naturelle des Pays-Bas. lOme Livr. 



Leide, 1873. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Schmidt, Dr. H. D. On the Origin and Development of the Colored Blood 



Corpuscles in Man. From the Author. 

 On the Construction of the Dark or Double-bordered Nerve Fibre. 



From the Author. 

 Schnltzer, Steph. C. Kalchbrenner. Icones Selectse Hymenomycetum 



Hungaria?. Fol. I. Restini, 1873. From the Hungarian Academy 



of Science. 



Schulze. Uber den Bau von Syncoryne Sarsii, Loven und der zugehorigen 



Meduse Sarsia tubulosa. Lesson. Leipzig, 1874. Purchased. 

 Schweinfurth, Dr. George. The Heart of Africa. 2 vols. London, 1878. 

 Semper, Dr. C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Theil, Wissen- 



schaftliche Resultate. 2er Band, Malacologische Untersuchungen. 



Von Dr. Rud. Bergh. VI. and VII. Heft. Wiesbaden, 1874. From 



the Wilson Fund. 



IT 




250 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sharpe, R. Bowdler. Catalogue of the Birds of the British Museum. Vol, 



I. Accipitrcs. Loudou, 1874. Purchased. 

 Smith, Prof. J. Lawrence. Mineralogy and Chemistry. Original Re- 

 searches. Louisville, Ky., 1873. From the Author. 

 Smith, Rev. S. S. An Essay on the Causes of the Variety of Complexion 



and Figure in the Human Species. Philadelphia, 1787. From Prof. 



Kaldeman. 

 Smithsonian Reports, 1863, '68, '69, '70, '71 and '72. From the Institution. 

 Miscellaneous Collection. Vols. 10, 11, and 13. Washington, 1873-74. 

 Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. 19. From the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. 

 Souverbie, Dr. R. P. Montrouzier. Descriptions d'Especes Nouvelle de 



I'Archipel Caledonien. From the Authors. 

 Spinzig, C, M.D. Epidemic Diseases as dependent upon Meteorological 



Influences. St. Louis, Mo., 1874. From the Author. 

 Strecker, Herman. Lepidoptera, Rhopaloceres, and Heteroceres. Nos. 



8-11. Reading, 1874. From the Author. 

 Suggestions on a Unitbrm System of Meteorological Observations. Utrecht, 



1873. From the Meteorological Institute. 

 Surgeon-General U. S. A., Annual Report of, for 1874. Washington. 



From the Author. 

 Sweden, Four Geological Maps of. From the Geological Survey. 

 Swedenborg, Emmanuel. Tlie Complete Works of Emmanuel Swedenborg. 



19 vols. 8vo. New York, 1873. From the American Swedenborg 



Publishing Society. 

 Theses, most Medical. From the University of Wurzburg. 

 Thiolliere, Victor. Description des Poissous Fossiles proveuant des Gise- 



ments Coralliens du Jura dans le Bugey. Livr. 2d. Lyon, 1873. 



Purchased. 

 Thomas, Cyrus. Synopsis of the Acrididge of North America 4to. From 



the Department of Interior. 

 Thommasi, Dr. D. Action of Benzy Chloride on Laurel Camphor (Laurus 



Camphora). 

 Action of Ammonia on Phenyl-Chloracetamide and Cresyl-Chloraceta- 



mide. From the Author. 

 Researches on the Preparation of Organo-Metallic Bodies of the d Hj^ 



Series. From the Author. 

 Tommasi, D. Parasiti interni degli Animali domestici. Traduzione dall 



Inglese e Note del Dott. Tommaso Tommasi. From the Author. 

 Tremaux, P. Principe Universcl du Mouvement et des Actions de la 



Matiere. 2me Ed. Paris, 1874. From the Author. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Land and Freshwater Shells of North America. 



Part IV. Strepomatidse. Smiths. Misc. Col. Washington, 1873. 



From the Author. 

 American Marine Couchology. Parts IV. -VI. Philadelphia, 1874. 



From the Author. 

 Ulrich, Dr. Axel. Sigfrid. Pathologic und Therapie der muskulareu Ruck- 



gratsverkriunmungen. Bremen, 1874. From the Author. 

 United States Exploring Expedition during the years 1838-42, under the 



command of Charles Wilkes, U. S. N. Vol. XVII. Botany. I. 



Lower Cryptogamia, II. Phanerogamia of the Pacific Coast of North 



America. 4to. Philadelphia, 1863-1874. From Dr. Gray. 

 Van Beneden, M. , Paul Gervais. Osteographie des Cetaces vivants et fossiles. 



Texte and Atlas, Livr. XI. Purchased. 

 Villa, Fratelli Antonio Giov. Batt. Specie e varieta de Molluschi della 



Lombardia Catalogo Sinonimico. 

 Clausilia de Cattaniaj. 

 Oggetti Inviati alle esposizioni di Milano. 

 Un Invasion d'Insetti. From the Author. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 251 



Vogel, Augt. Dr. M. von Pettcnhofer, Dr. Theodore L. W. von Bischoff. 



Justus Freiherr Von Liebig. Miinchen, 1874. From the Royal 



Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Ward's Museum of Mineralogy, Geology, and Zoology. From the Author. 



With, E. L'Ecorce Terrestre. Les Minc-raux, leur Histoire et leur Usages 

 dans les Arts et Metiers. Paris, 1874. Purchased. 



Wood-Mason, Jas. On a New Genus and Species (Hylfeocarcinus Humei) 

 of Landcrabs from the Nicobar Island. From the Author. 



Yarrow, H. C. Geog. and Geol. Exp. and Surveys west of the 100th 

 Meridian, First Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler. Catalogue of Phmts col- 

 lected in the years 1871, '72, and '73, with description of New Species 

 by Sereuo Watson and J. T. Kothrock. Report upon Ornithological 

 Specimens collected in the years 1871, '72, and '73. 2 pamphlets. 

 From Engineer Dep. U. S. A. 



Zittel, K. A. Palfeontographica. Supplement. Die Gastropoden der 

 Stramberger Schichten. Text and Plates, 3e Abtheilung. Cassel, 

 1873. From the Wilson Fund. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Upsal. Nova Acta Regia Societatis Scientiarum Upsaliensis. Seriei 

 Tertine, VIII., Fasc. II., 1873. From the Society. 

 Bulletin Meteorologique mensuel de I'Observatoire de I'Uuiversite 

 d'Upsal. Vol. IV., Nos 1-12, 1872; Vol. V., Nos. 1-6, 1872-3. 

 From the Observatory. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. Oversigt over det K. D. Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhand- 



linger og dets j\Iedlemmers Arbeidar i Aaret, 1873, Nos. 1, 2, and 3 ; 



1874, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Videnskabelige Mcddelcser fra Naturhistorisk Forening i Kjobenhavn 



for Aaret, 1872 and 1873. Nr. 1-4. From the Society. 

 Memoires de 1' Academic Royale de Copenhague. 5me Serie. Classe 



des Sciences. Vol. X., Nos. 3 6, 1873. From the Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Sitzungsberichte der Dorpater Natui'forscher-Gesellschaft. 3er 



Band, 3es and 4es Heft, 1871-72, 1873. From the Society. 

 Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv-, Ehst- und Kurlands. Iste Series, oer 



Band. 2e and 3e Lief. 7er Band, Meteorologische Beobachtuug, Iste 



Lief. 1872. From the Society. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscow. 



Annee 1873. Nos. 2. From the Society. 

 Riga. Arbeitcn des Naturforscher-Vereins zu Riga. Neue Folge, oes Heft, 



1873. From the Society. 



Correspondenzblatt des Naturforscher-Vereins zu Riga. 20er Jahrg, 



1874. From the Society. 



St. Petersburg. Memoires de 1' Academic Imperiale des Sciences de St. 



Petersburg, from Tome 19, No. 8, to Tome 21, No. 5. From the 



Society. 

 Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Petersburg. 



Tome 18, Nos. 3 et seq. Tome 19, Nos. 1, 2, and 3. From the 



Society. 

 Horaj Societatis Entomologicaj Rossicse. Tome 8, Nos. 3 and 4 ; 



Tome 9, Nos. 1 and 2, 1872. From the Society. 




252 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Verliandelingen der K. Akademie van "Weteuschappen. 



Dcrtiende Deel, 1878. From the Eoyal Academy of Amsterdam. 

 Jalirboek der K. Akademie van Wetenschappen, 1872. From the 



Society. 

 Verslagen en Mededeelingen der K. Akademie van Wetenschappen, 



Afdeeling Naturkunde, Tweede Reeks, Zeveude Deel ; Afdeeling 



Letterkunde, Tweede Reeks, Derde Deel, 1873. From the Society. 

 Processen Verbal der K. Akademie van Wetenschappen, Afdeeling 



Naturkunde, van Mei, 1872, tot en met, April, 1873. Gaudio Do- 



mestica, Elegia Petri Eiseiva, 1873. From the Society. 

 Harlem. Archives du Musee Teyler. Vol. III., Fasc. 3me, 1873. From 



the Society. 

 La Haye. Archives Neerlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles- 



publiees par la Societe Hollandaise des Sciences a Harlem. Tome 



VII., 4me and 5me Livr., and Tome VIII., 3me and 4me Livr. From 



the Society. 

 Utrecht. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Jaarboek voor, 1868, 1872, and 



1873. Uitgegeven door het K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch In- 



stituut. From the Institute. 



GERMANY. 



Augsburg. Zweiundzwangigster Bericht der Naturhistorischen Vereins in 



Augsburg, 1873. From the Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte, herausgegeben von Dr. F. H. Tro- 



schel. 37er Jahrg., 6es Heft; 39er Jahrg., 3es and 4es Heft ; 40er 



Jahrg., les and 2es Heft, 1871-74. From the Editor. 

 Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben von dem Ento- 



mologischen Vereine in Berlin. 17er Jahrg. les Vierteljahrsheft. 



to 18er Jahrg. 2es Viertelj. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwisseuschaften. Redigirt von Dr. 



C. G. Giebel. Neue Folg(^, Bands VIII. and IX. From the Editor. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. XXV. Band, 3 



Heft, to XXVI. Band, 1 Heft. From the Society. 

 Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie der Wisseuschaften zu Berlin, 



September, 1873, to August, 1874. From the Society. 

 Physikalische Abhandlungen der K. P. Akademie der Wissenchaften 



zu Berlin. Aus dem Jahre. 1872-73. Mathematische Abhand- 

 lungen, 1873. From the Society. 

 Monatschrift des Vereins zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues in den 



K. P. Staaten fiir Gartuerei und Pflanzenkunde. 16er Jahrg. 1873. 



From the Society. 

 Festschrift zur Feier des Hundertjahrigen Bestehens der Gesellschaft 



Naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin, 1873. From the Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir Mikroskopische Anatomic herausgegeben von Max 



Schultze. Vol. I., 1869, to Vol. XI., les Heft, 1874. Purchased. 

 Verhandlungen des Naturhistorischen Vereines der Preussischen 



Rheinlande und Westphalens. 29er Jahrg. 2e Halfte ; 30er Jahrg. 



Iste Halfte, 1872-73. From the Society. 

 BrauuschAveig. Archiv fiir Anthropology. 6er Band, 3es Viertelj ahresheft 



to 7er Band, 2es Viertelj., 1873. Purchased. 

 Bremen. XVII. Jahres-Bericht des Schwedischen Heilgymnastischen 



Institutes in Bremen. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen herausgegeben vom Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereine 



zu Bremen. III. Baud, IV. Heft ; IV. Band, I. Heft, 1873-74. From 



the Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 253 



Brtinn. Verhandluiigcn des Naturforsclienden Vereins in Briinn. XI. 



Band, 1872-73. From the Society. 

 Cassel. Malaliozoologisclie Blatter. Band 21, pg. 1, to Band 22, pg. 7. 



Purchased. 

 Chemnitz. Vicrter Bericht der NaturTvissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft zu 



Chemnitz, 1873. From the Society. 

 Danzig. Schriften der Naturforsclienden Gesellschaft in Danzig. Neue 



Folge, 3er Bandes, 2es Heft, 1873. From the Society. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Yereins fiir Erdkunde. III. Folge, XII. Heft, 



Nos. 133-144, 1873. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungsbericht der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Tsis in 



Dresden. Jahrg. 1873, April to March, 1874. From the Society. 

 Emden. Achtundfunfzigster Jaresbericht der Naturforschenden Gesell- 

 schaft, 1872. From the Society. 

 Erlangen. Verhandlungen der physicalisch-medicinischen Societat zu Er- 

 langen Heft 1-2 and 3, 18G7-71. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der physikalisch-medicinischen Societat zu Erlangen, 

 5 Heft, 1873. From the Society. 

 Frankfurt a. M. Der Zoologische Garten. XIV. Jahrg., Nos. 7-12, 1873. 

 From the Editor. 

 Bericht iiber die Senckeubergische naturforschende Gesellschaft, 1872- 



73. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen Naturfors- 

 chenden Gesellschaft. 9er Bandes, les and 2es Heft, 1873. From the 

 Society. 

 Jahrbiicher der deutschen Malakozoologischen' Gesellschaft nebst 



Nachrichtsblatt. ler Jahrg., 1874, Heft I. -III. From Uie Society. 

 Jahresbericht uber Verwaltung Medicinalwesens die Krankenanstal- 

 ten und die Oeffentlicheu Gesundheitsverhaeltniss der Freien Stadt 

 Frankfurt, herausgegeben von dem Aerztlichen Vereiia. III., V., und 

 XVII. Jahrg. From the Society. 

 Beitrage zur Statistik der Stadt Frankfurt am Main. Herausgegeben 

 von der Statistichen Abtheilung des Frankfurter Vereins fiir Geogra- 

 phic und Statistik. 2er Band, 5es Heft, 1874. From the Society. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und 

 der Georg-Augusts Universitat aus dem Jahre 1873. From the 

 Society. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Halle. 12er 



Bandes, 3es and 4es Heft, 1873. From the Society. 

 Innsbruck. Zeitschrift des Ferdiuandeum fiir Tirol und Voraelberg. 3e 



Folge, 18er Heft, 1874. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Abhandlungen der K. S. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu 

 Leipzig. X. Bandes, No. VI. From the Society. 

 Berichte uber die Verhandlungen der K. S. Gesellschaft der Wis- 

 senschaften zu Leipzig. Mathematisch Physische Classe, 1872, III.- 

 IV. and Extraheft, 1873, I. and II. From the Society. 

 Journal fur Ornithologie. 21 Jahrg., Heft I. 2, and 4, 1874. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Jahrl)iicher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik. Herausgegeben von Dr. N. 



Pringsheim, 9er Band, 2es-4es Heft. Purchased. 

 Archiv fiir Anatomy, Physiologic und wissenschaftliche Medecin. 



Jahrg. 1873, Heft III. to 1874, Heft. II. Purchased. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie herausgegeben von C. T. v. 

 Siebold und Albert Kolliker. 23er Band, 3es Heft, to 24er Band, 2es 

 Heft. Purchased. 

 Miinchen. Abhandlungen der K. Bayerischen Akademie der Wissen- 

 schaften, Mathematische-physikalischen Classe, Her Bandes, 2e und 

 8e Abth. Historischen Classe, lien Bandes, 2e and 3e Abth., 12en 

 Bandes, les und 2es Abth. Philosophisch-philologischen Classe, 13en 

 Bandes, le Abth. Verzeichniss, liede, etc. From the Society. 




254 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sitznngsberichte der Math.-physikal. Classe der K. B. Akadcmie der 



Wissenschaften zu Miincheii. 1873, Heft III., 1873, Heft I.-III., 



1874, Heft I. and II. From the Society. 

 Aunalen der k. Sternwarte bei Miinclieu. 19 Band, 1873. From the 



Observatory. 

 Verzeicliniss von 5563 telescopischen Sternen. XIII. Supplementband 



zu den Annalen der Miinchener Sternwarte. From the Royal Bava- 

 rian Academy of Sciences. 

 Hans- nnd Landwirthschafte Kalendar des landwirthschaftlichen Ve- 



reins in Bayern auf das genieme Jahrg. 1874. From the Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Arcliiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte 



in Mecklenburg, 27 Jahr. From the Society. 

 Offenbach a. M. Dreizehnter and Vierzehnter Bericht fiber die Thatig- 



keit des Offenbaclier Vereins fiir Naturkunde im Vereinsjahre 1871- 



73. 1873. From the Society. 

 Pest. A Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia Ertesitoje. Hatodik Evfolyam, 



9 Szam., Hetedik Evfolyam, 7 Szam. 1872-73. From the Hungarian 



Academy of Sciences. 

 A. M. T. Akademia Erkonyvei Tizenharmadik Kotet. IV. Darab. 



1870. From the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 M. Tudom. Akademia Almanach Csillagaskati es Kozonseges Nap- 



tarral 1872-ra. 1873. From tlie Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Mathemalikai es Termeszettudomanyi Kozlemenyek. Vonatkozolaga 



Hazai Viskonyokra, Kiadja a Magyar Tudomanj'os Akademia. VI. 



Kotet, 1868. From the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Ertekezesek a Termeszettudomanyok Korebol. Kiadja a Magyar 



Todomanyok Akademia II. Kolet II. Szam 1873, and III. Kotet, 



IV. Szam 1872 to IV. Kotet, II. Szam 1873. From the Hungarian 



Academy of Sciences. 

 Prag. Abhaudlungeu der k. b. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Jahre 



1872. 6e Folge, 6er Band, 1874 From the Society. 

 Sitzuugsbericlite der k. b. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften in Prag. 



Jahrg. 1872. Juli-Dec. 1873. From the Society. 

 Magnetische und Meteorologische Beobachtungeu an der K. K. Stern- 

 warte zu Prag im Jahre 1872. From the Observatory. 

 Regensburg. Flora oder allgemeine botanische Zeituug, herausgegeben 



von der K. B. botan. Gesellschaft in Regensburg. Neue Reihe, 31 



Jahrg. 1873. From the Society. 

 Stadtamhof. Verhandlungen des historischen Vereines von Oberpfalz und 



Regensberg. 29 Band, 1874. From the Society. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben yon dem Entomoto- 



gisclieu Vereiue zu Stettin. 34er Jahrg. 1873. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbucli fiir Mineralogie, Geologic und Palax)utologie. 



Jahrg. 1873, 7es Heft, 1874, 6es Heft. From the Editors. 

 Wurttembergische uaturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 24er Jahrg. 



3es Heft, SOev Jahrg. l-3es Heft, 1874. From the Editors. 

 Wien. Sitzuugsbericlite der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathema- 



tisch-naturwissenschaftliche Classe, 66 Band, le Abth. 68 Band, 2 



Abth. II. Heft. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der k. k. geologischen Reichsanstalt. Band V. Heft 



No. 5, Band VII. Heft, No. 2, 1873. From the Society. 

 Jahrbuch der k. k. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. Jahrg. 1873, 23 Band, 



No. 2, 24 Band, No. 2. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen of the same. No. 7, 1873 No. 11, 1874. From the 



Society. 

 Verhandlungen der k. k. Zoologische-botanischen Gesellschaft in 



Wien. Jahrg. 1873, XXIII. Band. From the Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Verhandlungen der physikal-mcdicin. Gesellschaft in Wiuz- 



burg. Neue Folge, IV. -VII. Baud, 1873. From the Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 255 



Arbeiten aus dem Zoologiscli-zootomischen Institut in Wlirzburg. 

 Heransgegebeu vou Prof. Dr. Carl Semper, les-Ges Heft, 1873-74. 

 From the Editor. 

 Zwickaii. Jaliresbericht des Vereins fiir Naturkunde zu Zwickau, 1873, 

 187-4. From the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Basel. Vcrhandlungen der Natnrforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel, 6er 



Theil. les Heft, 1874. From the Society. 

 Geneva. Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de 



Geneve. Tome 23, Ire Partie. 1873. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. 2e 



Serie, Nos. 71 and 73, 1874. From the Society. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel, 



1873. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thiltigkeit der St. Gallischen naturwissen- 



schaftlichen Gesellschaft -wahrend des Vereinsjahres 1873-73, 1874. 



From the Society. 

 Zurich. Vierteljahresheft der Naturforschen den Gesellschaft in Zurich. 



17er Jahrg., 1-4 Heft, 1872. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Annales de la Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Tomes 

 I.-XII. and Tome XVI., 1857-73. From the Society. 



Societe Entomologique de Belgique, Compte-Kendu. Serie II., Nos. 

 1-4. From the Society. 



Annales de la Societe Malacologique de Belgique. Tomes VI. and 

 VII., 1871-72. From the Society. 



Proces-Verbaux des Seances de la Societe Malacologique de Belgique. 

 Tome II., 1873, pp. 1-158. From the Society. 

 Gand. Table generale de la Belgique Horticole. Articles et gravures for- 

 mant les Tomes I. -XX., 1851-1870. 1871. From the Horticultural 

 Society of Belgium. 



Annuaire de TUniversite Catholique de Louvaiu, 1851 and 1874. Lou- 

 vain. From the University. 



Twenty-two Theses. From the University. 



FRANCE. 



Angers. Memoires de la Societe Nationale d' Agriculture, Science, et Arts 

 d' Angers. Nouvelle Periode. Tome 16me, No. 1-Tome 17me, No. 

 1. From the Society. 



Auxerre. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de 

 rYonne, Annee 1874. 27e et 28e Vol From the Society. 



Besancjon. Academic des Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et Arts de Besanc^on. 

 Seance du A6ut. 1872, and Jan. 1873. From the Society. 



Bordeaux. Actes de TAcademie National des Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et 

 Arts de Bordeaux. 3e Serie, 34e Annee, 1872-73, ler-4e Trimester. 

 From the Society. 

 Memoires de la Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bor- 

 deaux. Tome X., le and 2e Cahier. From the Society. 

 Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bordeaux. Extrait 

 des Proces-Verbaux pix 9-51, 18G9, Vol. 9. From the Society. 



Caen. Memoires de rAcademie National des Sciences, Arts, et Belles- 

 Lettres de Caen, 1872-4. From the Society. 



Cherbourg. Memoires de la Societe Nationale d'cs Sciences Naturelles de 

 Cherbourg. Tome 17, 1873. From the Society. 




25G ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Dijou. Mcmoires de rAcadcmie dcs Sciences, Arts, et Relles-Lettres de 



Dijon. 2e Serie. Tome ler, 1871-73. From the Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Societe d'Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et 



Arts d'Orleans. Seconde Serie des Memoires. Tome XVI., Nos. 1 



and 3, 1874. From the Society. 

 Paris. Annales des Mines. 7me Serie. 4me and 5me Livr. de 1873 ome 



Livr. 1874. From the Minister of Public Worlds, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Geolo<i;iques, publiees sous la direction de M. 



Herbert et de M. Alph. Milne Edwards. Tomes 1-5, 1870-74. From 



the Editors. 

 - Annales des Sciences Natnrelles. 5me Serie. Botanique. Tome 



XVIir.. No. 4 ; Tome XX., No. 2. Zoologie. Tome XIX., No. 2. 



Tome XX., No. 6. Purchased. 

 Annales de la Societe Entomologique de France. 5me Serie. Tome 



3me, 1873. From the Society. 

 Annuaire de la Societe Americain. 1873. From the Society. 

 Archives de Zoologie Experimentale et Generale. Tome 2me, No. 3 



Tome 3me, No. 2. Purchased. 

 Bulletin mensuel de la Societe d'Acclimatation. 2me Serie. Tome 



X., No. 6me 3me Serie, Tome I., No. lOme. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France. Tome 20me. Revue Bib- 



lioijraphique, A. Tome 21. Bev. Bibl., B. Comptcs-Reudus. Tome 



oQn^e, 2 Tome 21me, 2. 1873. From the Society. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie. Tome 13, No. 4-Tome 14, No. 



3. From the Editor. 

 Journal de Zoologie. Par M. Paul Gervais. Tome II., No. G-Tome 



III., No. 4 Purchased. 

 Nouvelle Archives du Museum d'llistoire Naturelle de Paris. Tome 



8me and Ome. 1872-73. From the Society. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de TEtranger. 3me Annee, 2e Serie, 



No. 24-4me Annee, 2e Serie, No. 23. From the Editor. 

 Toulouse. Memoires de TAcademie des Sciences, Inscriptions, et Belles- 

 Lettres de Toulouse. Tome V. 1873. From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Catania. Atti dell Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali di Catania. Serie 



Terza. Tomes VII. and VIII., 1872-73. From the Society. 

 Torino. Memoires de I'Academie Royale des Sciences. Annees 1790-91, 

 1792-1800, 1851, 1859, and 1873. From the Society. 

 Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Vol. VIII., Disp. 



1-G, 1873. From the Society. 

 Bollettino Meteorologico ed Astromico del Regio Osservatorio dell Uni- 

 vcrsita di Torino. Anno VII., 1873. From the University. 



GREAT BRITAIN. 



Edinburgh. Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. 27, 



Part I., 1872-73. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Session 1872-73. 



From the Society. 

 Transactions and Proceedings of the Botanical Society. Vol. XI., 



Part III., 1873. From the Society. 

 Glasgow. Proceedings of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow. Vols. 



1-5, and Vol. 9, No. 1. From tlie Society. 

 Leeds. Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society. The Annual Report 



for 1872-73, 1873-74. From the Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 257 



Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Pliilosopliical Society of Liver- 

 pool. Nos. 2-12 and No. 27. And an Address by A. J. Mott. 



1846-58, 1873. From the Society. 

 London. The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. 2d Series, Nos. 12 



and 18, 1873. Purchased 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Kecord. No. 98, Jan. 1874, 



From the Publisher. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 4th Series, Nos. 67- 



74, 80-84. Purchased. 

 The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and 



Journal of Science. Nos. 303-310, 316-320. Purchased. 

 Nature. Nos. 228 and 235, Vol. 9, 1874. From the Editor. 

 The Entomologist's Weekly Intelligencer. Vols. I.-X. bound in 5 vol- 

 umes, 1856-61. Purchased. 

 The Food Journal. Nos. 47 and 48. From the Editor. 

 Notes and Queries. Parts 66 to 77. From the Editor. 

 The Monthly Microscopical Journal. Jan. -Dec. 1874. Purchased. 

 The Ibis. 3d Series, Vol. IV., Nos. 13-15. Purchased. 

 Transactions of the Zoological Society of London. Vol. VIII., Parts 



6-9. From the Society. 



Proceedings of the Scientific IMeetiiics of the Zoological Society for the 



year 1873, Part I., 1874, Pt. III. "From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Linnean Society. Vol. 28, Pt. 3d Vol. 29, Pt. 2d, 



1873. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Linnean Society. 1872-73. Additions to Library 



and List. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Linnean Society. Zoology, Vol. XL, Nos. 55 and 



56. Botany, Vol. XIIL, Nos. 68-72. London, 1873. From the 



Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. VII., Pts. 



1-4. Lfst for 1873. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the Poyal Society. Vol. 163, Parts I. 



and II., 1874. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Nos. 139-150. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. XII., No. 5 ; 



Vol. 5, iSTos. 2-5 ; Vol. 18, Nos. 4 and 5. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Geographical Society. Vols. 42 and 43. From 



the Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



New Series, Vol. Vll., Part I., 1874. From the Society. 

 Tlie Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society of London. New 

 Series, Vol. II., Part 5, to Vol. IV., Part 14, including Supplement 



to Vol. II., 1868-74. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Chemical Society. New Series, Feb. 1873, to July, 1874, 



and also Oct. 1869. From the Society. 

 Publication of the Palajontological Society. Vols. XXVII. and XXVIII. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Manchester. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of 



Manchester. Vols. 8-12, 1873. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester. 3d 



Series, Vol. 4, 1871. From the Society. 

 Annual Report of the Manchester Scieiititic Student's Association for 



the years 1872 and 1873. From the Society. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 



and Durham. Vol. V., Part I. 1873. From the Society. 

 Perth. The Scottish Naturalist. No. XL, Vol. II., July, 1873. From B. 



Westermann & Co. 




258 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



UNITED STATES. 



Albanj'. Proceedings of the Ninth Anniversary of the University Convo- 

 cation of the State of New York, held Aug. 1872. 1873. From the 

 Regents of tlie University, N. Y. 

 Baltimore. Seventh Annual Report of the Provost to the Trustees of the 

 Peabody Institute of the City of Baltimore, June 4, 1874. From the 

 Trustees. 

 Boston. Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 New Series, Vol. I., 1873-74. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. XV., Pt. 



3 Vol.'XVIL, Part 1. From' the Society. 

 Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. 11., Part II., 



No. 4, and Fart III., Nos. 1-3. From the Society. 

 Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zoology 

 for 1872. From the Director. 

 Buffalo. Bulletin of the Buffiilo Society of Natural Sciences. Vol. I., No. 



4 A^ol. II., No. 3. From the Society. 

 Cambridge. Bulltin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Vol. III., 

 No. 10, 1874. From the Director. 

 Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative Zoology 



for 1873. From the Trustees. 

 Seventh Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Museum of 



American Archaeology and Ethnology, 1874. From the Trustees. 

 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Sci- 

 ence, 20th Meeting. Cambridge, 1872. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 

 VIIL, from May, 1868, to May, 1873. From the Society. 

 Harrisburg. Fourth Annual Report of the Board of Commissioners of 

 Public Charities of the State of Pennsylvania, 1874. From the Com- 

 missioners. 

 Ithaca. Bulletin of the Cornell University. Science. Vol. I., Nos. 1 



and 2. 1874. From the Society. 

 Minneapolis. Bvilletin of the Minnesota Academy of Natural Sciences for 



1874. From the Society. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Third Series. 

 Nos. 38-48. From the Editors. 

 Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 Vol. II., Part 2. From the Society. 

 New York. The Popular Science Monthly. Vol. I., and Nos. 22-33. 

 From the Editor. 

 Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Vol. IV., No. 11-Vol. VI., 



No. 11. From Thos. Meehan. 

 New York Medical Journal. February, 1874. Vol. XIX., No. 1- 



Vol. XX., No. 6. From the Editor. 

 The American Sportsman. From Vol. III., No. 26, to Vol. IV., 



No. 25. 1874. From the Editor. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vol. X., 



Nos. 1-11. 1873. From the Society. 

 Bulletin of the American Geographical Society. Session 1873-1874. 

 From the Society. 

 Philadelphia. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. Nos. 1 and 2. 1874. From the Publication Committee. 

 Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelpliia. New 

 Series. Vol. VIII., Part I. 1874. From the Publication Com- 

 mittee. 

 Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. XI. A His- 

 tory of New Sweden, by Israel AcreUus. 1874. From the So- 

 ciety. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 259 



The Second Annual Report of the Board of Managers of the Zoological 



Society of Philadelphia. 1874. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XIII., No. 



91. 1873. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XV., No. 1. 



From the Society. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Nos. 133-136. From 



the Editor. 

 The Medical News and Library. Nos. 373-384. From the Editor. 

 The American Chemist. Vol. IV., No. 7-Vol. V., No. 4. From the 



Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. XVI., Nos. 1-13. From the Editor. 

 The Penn Monthly, Nos. 49-Gl. From the Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. Vol. XVI., Nos. 1-12. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of the Franklin Institute. Thirty-second Series, Nos. 



576-580. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at the 



Twenty-first Annual Meeting held at Richmond, Va., September, 



1873. ' From the Association. 



American Journal of Pharmacy. Fourth Series. Vol. IV., Nos. 1- 



13. January, 1874. From the Editor. 

 Transactions of the American Institute of Mining Engineers. Vol. I. 



From the Institute. 

 The Philadelphia Medical Register and Directory for 1873. From 



Owen Biddle. 

 Salem. Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Vol. V., No. 9- Vol. VI., No. 8. 



From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 



Sciences. Twenty-second Meeting, Portland, Me., 1873. Salem, 



1874. From the Society. 



Sixth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Academy of 



Science for the year 1873. From the Society. 

 The American Naturalist. Vol. VIII., Nos. 1-13. From the Editor. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences. 



Vol. v.. Part 3, and Vol. I., Part 3. Edition 1873-4. From the 



Society. 

 Trenton. Fourth Annual Report of the. Commissioners of Fisheries of the 



State of New Jersey for the year 1873. From the Authors. 

 Washington. Monthly Report of the Bureau of Statistics. August, 1873- 



August, 1874. From the Department of the Interior. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. Nos. 61 



and 63. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Loudon. The Canadian Entomologist. Vol. V., No. 13- Vol. VI., No. 10. 



From the Editors. 

 Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist. New Series. Vol. VII., Nos. 4 



and 6. 1874. From the Editor. 

 Quebec. Le Naturaliste Canadien. Vol. V., No. 13-Vol. VI., No. 11. 



From the Editor. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. 



Vol. XIV., Nos. 3 and 3. From the Editors. 

 Report of the Entomological Society of the Province of Ontario for the 



year 1873. From the Society. 




260 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



MEXICO. 



Mexico. La Naturaleza. Periodico Cicntifico de la Sociedad Mexicana de 

 Historia Natural. Entrega I., 1869-Ent. VI., 1874. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Boletin de la Sociedad de Geographia y Estadistica de la Republica 

 Mexicana. Tercera Epoca. Tomo I., Nos. 1 y 2. Mexico, 1873. 

 From the Society. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Buenos Aires. Boletin de la Academia Nacional de Ciencias Exactas 

 existente en la Universidad de Cordova. Entrega I. 1874. From 

 the Academy. 

 Annales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires. Por German Burmeis- 

 ter. Ent. 8-12 in. 1871-73. From the Director. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Natunrkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie uitgegeven 



door de K. Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie. 



DeeI32. Afl. 4-6. 1873. From the Society. 

 Calcutta. Proceedings of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. No. 5, 1873- 



No. 7, 1874. From Isaac Lea. 

 Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. 1872. Part II., No. 4. 



1874, Part II., No. 1. From Isaac Lea. 

 Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Palaeontologia Indica. 



4to. Ser. VIII. 3; Ser. IX. 1. 8vo., Vol. X., Part 1. From the 



Survey. 

 Records of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. VI., Parts 1-4. 



1873. From the Survey. 

 Ceylon. Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. 



1867-70. Parts 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 Yokohama. Transactions of the Asiatic Society of Japan. From 22d 



October, 1873, to 15th July, 1874. From the Society. 



NEW ZEALAND. 



Wellington. Transactions and Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute. 

 1873. Vol. VI. From the Society. 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



261 



INDEX TO GENEHA. 



Abies 159 



Acantbinnla 55 



Acantliocystis 166 



Acavus 58 



Acer 138, 318 



Aceratherium 147 



Aclifenodon 116 



Achlya 160 



Acronycta 197 



Actinophrys 13, 23, 116 



Actinosphferium 166 



Adapis 116 



Aeolosoma 75 



^sciilus 107 



Agelaieus 97 



Aglaja 55 



Agrotis 202 



Ahfetulla 65 



Ailanthns 160 



Ambrosia 215 



Ami va 68 



Amoeba . .13, 14, 75, 77, 87, 142, 



167, 168 



Amphibulima 42, 62 



Auaptomorphus 116 



Ancbitberium 116 



Anisorliyucus 28 



Anodonta 25,29 



Anolis 67 



Antbinus 58 



Antbracotherium 116 



Autilocapra 149 



Antrostomus 105 



Apamea 205 



Apis 103 



Arcella 13, 14, 75 



Ariolimax 33, 59, 63 



Ariou 35 



Arionta 55 



Arvicola 187 



Aspleniuni 155 



Ateles 94 



Atelopiis 130 



Aucbenia 18 



Azara 25 



Baculites 224 



Balfena 89 



Bascanion 97 



Batbybius 14 



Boa 65 



Bonis 58 



Bos 18 



Botbrops 67 



Bradypns 95 



Bromus 153, 163 



Brontotberium 165 



Bubonias 124 



Biifo 68, 120 



Bulimulus 53, 58, 61, 62 



Bunocepbalus 132 



Callicbthys 135 



Calocampa 210 



Camptosorns 155 



Canis 18, 147 



Caracolus 58 



Caradina 200 



Carmelita 58 



Carpiuiis 80 



Catbaria 79, 156 



Catbartes 151 



Centrotehna 121 



Cbffitogaster 75 



Cbamseleopsis 68 



Cbeirotberium 75 



Cbelotriton 71 



Cbemuitziana 58 



Cbilotus 190 



Cionodon 12 



Cirrobasis 31 



Clatbrulina 145, 166 



Clcome 154 



Coccyzus 108 



Cocblostyla 59, 62 



Colaptes 104, 109 



Colostetbus 131 



Corvns 101 



Corycia 78, 227 



Coiyda 55 



Corydoras 135 




262 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Cosoryx 147, 148 



Cothornia 140 



Ctenodus 91 



Cnicus 84 



Cunicnlus 193, 195 



Curvimacula 210 



Cyauospiza 97 



Cyclochcila 32 



Cyclorhamphus 125 



Cylindrella 55 



Cyphoderia 225, 227 



Cystignatbus 124, 128 



Cysticopsis 56 



Deinamceba 1 55 



Dendrobates 68, 71, 129 



Dendrosoma 140 



Dentellaria 57 



Diautboecia 199, 201 



Dicopis 198 



Didymoprium 155 



Diflaugia. . . 13, 75, 78, 155, 187, 227 



Dipsas 65 



Docidium 15 



Dorcasia 55 



Dresseina 29 



Dryocampa 160 



Diy ptus 59 



Dysicbtbys 133 



Ebora 32 



Echiuorbyncbus 76 



Elaps 65, 67 



Elepbas 18, 19, 221 



Elotberium 116 



Eobasileus 90 



Erepta 57 



Erinua 54, 61 



Eudryas 198 



Euglypba 13, 225 



Euneomys 185 



Euparypba 55 



Eupborbia 146 



Eurycratera 57 



Eurytus 59 



EutfEuia 116 



Eutolype 198 



Evotomys 186 



Exarnes 205 



Fagus 80, 101 



Felis 18 



Fiber 13, 196 



Filaria 140 



Fruticicola 55 



Gentiana 160 



Geotblypis 96 



Gerrbosteus 71 



GlfPa 210 



Glaudina 49 



Glyptostoina 55 



Guatbopbysa 128 



Goniognatba 55 



Gonospira 47, 62 



Gonostoma 55 



Gortyna 200, 206 



Gromia 88 



Habronema 140 



Habrotbrix 177 



Hadeaa 203 



Hadrosaurus 12, 90, 225 



Haplotbsserus 82 



Heliotbis 211 



Helix 39, 49, 60, 62, 118, 162 



Helmiutbopbaga 220 



Helotropba 200 



Hemisiuus 25, 32, 82, 83 



Hemitrocbus 56 



Hempbillia 39, 60 



Hesperomys 150, 176 



Himella 200 



Hippotberium 147 



Holocbeilus 176 



Homop3'ralis 213 



Hoplosternum 135 



HyfEuodou 116 



Hydra 10 



Hydroecia 205 



Hyla 69, 121 



Hylodes 126 



Hyopsodus 116 



Hypoptoporna 135 



Hypsiboas 69, 121 



Hyracbyus 116 



Hj-racotberium 116 



Hyria 29 



Icterus 99 



Inoceramus 224 



Ipimorpba 201 



Isa;a 82 



Iscbyrosaurus 75, 225 



Iscbyrotberium 75 



Kinosteruum 68 



Lselaps 91 



Lagynis 13 



Ledereria 205 



Lepidosiren 89 



Leptodira 65 



Leptognatbus 65, 67 



Leptoloma 58 



Lepus 151 



Leucocbroa 55 



Limax 36 



I 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



263 



Liochila 5G, 57 



Liosonia 31 



Liposarcus 13o 



Lids 83 



Lithotis 54, 61 



Lithodytes 127 



Liupenis 124 



Lopliiodon 116 



Loricaria 135 



Luceria 205 



Luperina 205 



Lygodiuin 9 



Macacus 94 



Madura 108 



Macrocyclis 42, 61 



Macrodontes 58 



Mamestra 199 



Martes 147 



Masticopliis 65 



Mastodon 19, 221 



Megacerops 165 



Megadactjius 91 



Meianerpes 109 



Melania 82 



Melaporpbyria 203 



Melospiza 97 



Menodus 234 



Merychyus 147 



Mesodon 55, 118, 162 



Mesonyx 116 



Mici'ophysa 55 



Miobasileus 166 



Molothrus 96 



Mugil 66 



Mas 173 



Myiarclius 104 



Myodes 192,194 



Myonomes 189 



Mytiloides 29 



Mytilopsis 25, 83 



Nais 75 



Nauiiia 47 



Navicula 144 



Nebela 156 



Neotoma 174 



Nepenthes 144 



Nephelodes 206 



Neritina 25 



ISTototreraa 124 



Nuculana 25, 30 



Oclietodou 184 



(Edipus 120 



Ogygia 205 



Oligia 203 



Ologyra 118 



Omaionyx 43 



Onychomys 183 



Ophibolus 64 



Ophiognomon 70 



Oriolus 84 



Orphnus 59 



Ortbodes 201 



Oryzomys 174, 183 



Osteocepbalus 123 



Ostomya 30 



OuramcBba 77 



Oxybelis 65 



Oxymicterus 176 



Oyrrbopus 71 



Pachydon 25, 27, 82, 83 



Pacbyotus 58 



Pacbytoma 31 



Palseolagus 151 



Palffiosyops 116 



Palfeotberium 116 



Pampbagiis 78 



Pauolax 151 



Panopoda 213 



Parraelia 107 



Passiflora 9 



Patula 41, 55, 61 



Pectiuatella 139 



Pelecycbilus 58 



Pclomyxa 87, 142 



Pellicula 42 



Peltosaurus 116 



Pbalffina 208 



Pbala^uopbana 314 



Pbleum 99 



Pburys 212 



Pbyllomedusa 120 



Pilea 159 



Pitbecopus 121 



Pitymys 191 



Plagiopbrys 78, 227 



Plagioptycba 56 



Planorbis 30 



Plecostomus 137 



Plectomantis 127, 128 



Pleonectyptera 213 



Pleurodema 124 



Pleurodonta '"JS 



Pleurogyne 100 



Pleurota^nium 15 



Pliocercus 64 



Plusia 207 



Poa 100 



Podomys 190 



Polydontes <^>7 



Polygonum 154 



Polygyra 55 



Polygyrella 55 



Polymita 56, 57 



Polyonax 13 




2G4 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Pomatia , 55 



Precatioiiii^ 207 



Pristina 75 



Procamelns 147 



Propiis 70 



Protistiiis GO 



Protoliippus 147 



Psamraomys 191 



Pseudaglossa 213 



Pseudolimacodes 212 



Pseudortliosia 207 



Pupa 52 



Pyrrhia 211 



Quamoclit 154 



Quercus 101, 107, 221 



Rafflesiana 144 



RaiuTla 131 



Rapliidiophrys 167 



Reithrodon 184 



Rliiiiodoras 134 



Rotifer 88 



Sagda 54 



Salmo 141 



Sayornis 104 



Scaphiopus 125 



Schroteriana 58 



Scliiztea 9 



Sciurus 7G 



Scopelosoma 209 



Scytopis 123 



Sideridis 205 



Sigmodou 174, 175 



Simpulopsis 43 



Srailacina 115 



Solannm 158 



Sphferodactylus 68 



Spilotes....' 64 



Spirogyra 87 



Spongilla 145 



Stapliylea 84 



Stenebfiber 222 



Stcnodactylus 68 



Stenotrema 55 



Stentor 75 



Storcria 116 



Stropliia 53, 62 



Slylemys 224 



Stylodon 57 



Stiirnella 98 



Siiccinea 42, 54 



Swertia 160 



Symborodon 89, 166, 224 



Synaptomys 192 



Tacliea 55 



Taeniocampa 201 



Tamila 212 



Tebennopliorus 79 



Teleuraspis 67 



Thelidomus 56 



Tliespesius 74, 225 



Titauotherium 89, 165, 223, 224 



Tolype 198 



Toxosoma 31 



Trichina 139 



Trichomycterus 66, 132 



Trimorphodon 65 



Trineiua 13, 225, 227 



Triodopsis 55 



Triquetra 25, 29 



Triticum 81, 153, 163 



Trochilus 106 



Tropidonotus 97 



Turdus 104 



Tyranuus 103 



Urocentruin 143 



Urtica 159 



Vallonia 55 



Verbascuni 107 



Vesperimus 174, 178 



Vireo 96 



Vitrinea 54 



Wistaria 84 



Xanthia 200, 210 



Zalhorax 133 



Zouites 39.42, 60 




GENERAL INDEX. 



265 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to the Library, 342. 

 Amendments of By-Laws, 161. 



Bachman, Dr. J., Announcement of 



deatli of, 21. 

 Beaumont, E. De, Announcement of 



deatli of, 160. 

 Binuey, W. G., On the Anatomy of 



Ariolimax and other Pulmonata, 



22, 33. 



Cliapman, H. C, On the Muscles of 

 the Hind Leg of Fiber Zibethicus, 

 13 ; On Echinorhynchus Monili- 

 fornis, 76 ; On the Generative Ap- 

 paratus of the Tebenophorus Caro- 

 liueusis, 79 ; Anatomical notes, 94. 



Committees for 1874, 16. 



Conrad, S. A., Remarks on the Ter- 

 tiary Clay of the Upper xVmazon, 

 with descriptions of new Shells, 

 17, 25 ; Description of two new fos- 

 sil Shells of the Upper Amazon, 

 82. 



Cope. E. D., On the extinct Fauna of 

 Colorado, 10 ; On the age of the 

 Lignites of the West, 12 ; On varia- 

 tions in structure of horns of Deer 

 of the genus Cariacus, 24 ; On the 

 Ziphius of Nantucket, 24; Descrip- 

 tion of some species of Reptiles 

 obtained by Dr. John F. Brans- 

 ford, while attached to the Nicara- 

 guan Survey iug Expedition in 1873, 

 64 ; On a young Balsena Cisarctica 

 and on the extinct Mammalia of 

 Colorado, 89 ; On the genus Cteno- 

 dus, 91 : On some Batrachia and 

 Nematognathi brought from the 

 upper Amazon, by Prof. Orton, 

 116, 120; On viviparous Snakes, 

 116 ; On the palaeontology of Colo- 

 rado, 116 ; Notes on Santa Fe Marls 

 and some of the contained Verte- 



18 



brate Fossils, 142, 147 ; Extract of 

 letter from, 163 ; On a new Masto- 

 don and Rodent, 221 ; On the char- 

 acters of Symborodon, 224. 



Correspondence, 238. 



Coues, Dr. E., Synopsis of the INIuri- 

 d;T3 of North America, 161, 173. 



Durand, E., Presentation of portrait 

 of, 84. 



Elections during 1874, 236. 



Frazer. P., Jr., On the value of Palfe- 

 ontology, 11 ; On Pilot Knob, Iron 

 ^Mountain, and Mine La ]\[otte, 85 ; 

 On the chemical formulas of Mine- 

 rals, 92, 110 ; On a coal-cutting 

 Machine, 117; On the Geology of 

 certain lands in Ritchie and Tyler 

 Cos., W. Va., 168 ; AVeatliering of 

 Rocks, 228. 



Gentry, T. G., On the habits of some 

 American species of Birds and other 

 things Ornithological, 76, 96 ; On 

 Fertilization of certain Flowers 

 through Insect agency, 115. 



Goldsmith, E., The Blue Gravel of 

 California, 73 ; Analysis of Gra- 

 phite from Wythe County, Va., 77. 



Greer, Col. Jas., Announcement of 

 death of, 16. 



Grote, A. R., On new species of Noc- 

 tuidfe, 163, 197. 



Halsey, Wm. S., Announcement of 



death of, 23. 

 Hawkins, B. W., On the Pelvis of 



Hadrosaurus, 90. 

 Herrick, H., Description of a new 



species of Helminthophaga, 220. 

 Hunt, J. G., On the structure of 



Schizaja, 9 ; (3n Glands of Nepen- 




266 



GENERAL INDEX. 



thes, 144 ; Crystallization in Plants, 

 151 ; Report on Wheat and Chess, 

 163. 



Index to Genera, 261. 



Le Conte, J. L., On the age of the 

 Lignite Beds of the Missouri River, 

 11. 



Leeds, Prof., On a Fulgurite, 145 ; On 

 elevation of temperature in a Lead 

 Mine, 145. 



Leidy, Jos., Remarks on Hydra, 10; 

 Remarks on Protozoa, 13 ; On the ! 

 mode of growth of Desmids, 15 ; ' 

 On Actinophrys sol, 23 ; Criticism 

 of paper of Mr. Cope, 74 ; Note on 

 the Enemies of Difflugia, 75 ; Re- 

 marks on a supposed comjiound 

 derived from Leather, 75 ; Notice 

 of some new Fresh-water Rhizo- 

 pods, 77 ; Notice of some fresh- 

 water and terrestrial Rhizopods, 

 86 ; Remarks on Revivification of 

 Rotifer vulgaris, 88 ; On Pectina- 1 

 tella magnihca, 139 ; On a parasitic 

 worm of' the House-fl}^ 139 ; Notice 

 of some fresh-water Infusoria, 140 ; 

 Notice of a remarkable Ameeba, \ 

 142 ; On the mode in which Amoeba [ 

 swallows its food, 143 ; On the ' 

 motive power of Diatomes, 143 ; 

 Remarks on Sponges, 144 ; Notice \ 

 of some Rliizopods, 155 ; Note on : 

 Dryocampa, 160 ; Notice of Re- 

 mains of Titanotherium, 165; No- 

 tices of Rhizopods, 166 ; On sup- 

 posed Spermaries in Amoeba, 168 ; 

 On Specific Gravity, 218 ; Remarks 

 on Fossils presented, 223 ; Notices 

 of Rhizopods, 225. 



Lewis, J., Description of a new spe- 

 cies of Helix. 116, 118 ; On a new 

 variety of Helix, 142, 162. 



E. 



Resignation as 



Macomber, N. 

 member, 116. 



Meehan, Thos., Dimorphous Flowers 

 in Passiflora, 9 ; Elevation of the 

 trunks of trees, 22 ; The veins of 

 Beech and Horubean Leaves, 80 ; 

 Direct Growth Force, 80 ; Habits 

 of the Orchard Oriole, 84 ; Poison- 



ous character of the flowers of Wis- 

 taria Sinensis, 84 ; Growth of the 

 Cuicusarvensis, HofF., 84 ; Change 

 of habit in Smilacina bifolia, 115 ; 

 Dimorphism in the leaves of Acer 

 Pennsylvanicum, 138 ; Change of 

 Habit through Fungoid Agency, 

 146 ; Wheat and Chess, 153 ; Vari- 

 ations in Solanum Fendleri, A. G., 



158 ; Abies concolor in Colorado, 



159 ; Fertilization of Gentiana, 160 ; 

 Variations in leaves of Ailanthus 

 glaudulosa, 160 ; Antlers of Am- 

 brosia artemisiiefolia, 215 ; Dimor- 

 phism in Apples, 215 ; Coloring of 

 autumn leaves, 218 ; Continuous 

 growth in Fungoidal Excrescences, 

 221. 



Nolan. E. J., Remarks on death of 

 Dr. Slack, 140. 



Officers for 1875, 235. 



Procter, Wm., Announcement of 

 death of, 15. 



Redfield, J. H., New growth of 



Plants, 154 ; On Asplenium ebe- 



uoides, 155. 

 Reed, A. G., Blindness of Salmon, 



216. 

 Report of Librarian,. 228. 

 Report of the Curators, 230. 

 Report of Recorder of Biological and 



Microscopical Section, 233. 

 Report of Conservator of Conchologi- 



cal Section, 234. 



Slack, J. II., Announcement of death 



of, 140. 

 Sparks, T., Announcement of death 



of, 159. 



Willcox, J., Mountain Drainage of 

 Tennessee and North Carolina, 

 Ancient Burial Customs, 164. 



Wyman, Dr. J., Announcement of 

 death of, 143. 



Yates, L. G., On Mammalian Fossils 

 in California, 18. 




Proc.A.KS.1874 



Plate 15 





Rol.'Rid^way del. 



Helminthopha^a Lawrcncii. Horrick. 





29 



'^^f^ 



m 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ita(Umg of Jaiunil ScitnciJi 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT I. January, February, MarcJi, 18741, 



\D 



f-\ 



"^ 



y PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo W. Tkyon, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vadx, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RUSCHEXBEEGER, M.D, 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1874. 



^'- 



'^. 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Vol. VIII., Part I. 

 (Quarto) have been issued 1847 to 1874. Tlie price per volume of four parts 

 is $10.00, or $3.00 per part, to subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or 

 $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of tlie Mammalian Remains of North America." Illus- 

 trated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1843, in eight volumes, octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00, to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series op the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal op Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE, 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 



Description of Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Unionid^ of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 

 uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



Monograph op the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00 ; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



Monograph op the Fresh- water Univalve Mollusca op the United States. 

 By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Broad and Sausom Streets. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Agents, 

 January, 1873. 



mw York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



L Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 





'^^^ 



co]n^th:nts. 



J. G. Hunt, M.D. On the Structure of Scbizsea pusilln, . . 9 

 Thos. Meehan. Dimorphous Flowers in Passiflora ... 9 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. Remarks on Hydra 10 



Edw. D. Cope. On the Age of the Lignite Beds of the Missouri 



River 10, 12 



J. L. LeConte, M.D. On the Age of the Lignite Beds of the 



Missouri River 12 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. On the muscles of the hind leg of Fiber 



zibethicus 13 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on Protozoa . . . .13 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. On the Mode of Growth of Desmids . .15 



Standing Committees for 1814 16 



Jos. Leidy, M.D, Extract from a Letter relating to Mammalian 



Fossils in California 18 



Thos. Meehan. Elevation of the Trunks of Trees . . .22 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. On Actiuophrys sol 23 



T. A. Conrad. Remarks on the Tertiary Clay of the Upper Ama- 

 zon, with descriptions of new shells 25 



W. G. BiNNEY. On the Anatomy and Lingual Dentition of Ario- 



limax, and other Pulmonata 33 



Edw. D. Cope. Description of some species of Reptiles obtained 

 by Dr. John F. Bransford, Assistant Surgeon United States 

 Navy, while attached to the Nicaraguan Surveying Expedi- 

 tion in 18t3 C^i 






^f^^- 



5^*^^^^ 



^^-'vi 



PBOGEEDINGS 



OF THE 



'Art w/' 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT II. April, 3Iay, June, July, August^ 

 and September, 1874. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RUSCHEKBEKGER, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1874. 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the J'otjrnal and Vol. VIII., Part I. 

 (Quarto) have been issued 1847 to 1874. The price per volume of four parts 

 is $10.00, or $3.00 per part, to subscribers; and to others, $13.50 per volume, or 

 $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illus- 

 trated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00, to members; and to the public, $80.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchologt, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOB SALE, 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices afHxed : 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Unionid^ of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 

 uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00 ; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



Monograph of the Fresh-water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. 

 By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the. Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of tlie Academy, corner 

 of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



Agents, 

 January, 1878. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTEJS'TS Continued. 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Rete Mirabile in Bradypus Didactylus 95 

 Thomas G. Gentry. On Habits of some American Species of 



Birds 96 



Thomas Meehan. Chanjre of Habit in Smilacina bifolia . 115 

 Edward D. Cope. On the Genus Storeria . . . .116 



Edward D. Cope. Synopsis of Geological work during 18*73 . 116 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. Description of a Coal-cutting Machine 117 



James Lewis, M.D. Description of a new species of Helix . 118 

 Edward D. Cope. On some Batrachia and Nematognathi 



brought from the Upper Amazon by Prof. Orton . . 120 

 Thomas Meehan. Dimorphism in the Leaves of Acer Penn- 



sylvanicura, Lin. ......... 138 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On Pectinatella magnifica . . . 139 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On a Parasitic Worm of the House Fly 139 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Notice of some Fresh-water Infusoria . 140 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. Obituary Notice of Dr. Slack . . 141 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Notice of a Remarkable Amoeba . . 142 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. On the Mode in which Amceba swallows 



its Food 143 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On the Motive Power of Diatomes . 143 



J. Gibbons Hunt, M.D. On Excretory Ducts in Nepenthes . 144 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on Sponges .... 144 



Prop. Leeds. On a Fulgurite from Fayetteville, N. C. . . 145 



Prof. Leeds. On a sudden rise of Temperature in -a Lead Mine 145 



Thomas Meehan. Change of Habit through Fungoid Agency 146 

 Edward D. Cope. Notes on the Santa 4 Marls, and some of 



the Contained Vertebrate Fossils 141 




-^^*V^r3^ 



CONTENTS. 



E. Goldsmith. The Blue Gravel of California . . . IS 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Correction of an Article by Prof. Cope 1i 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Note on the Enemies of Difflugia . . 15 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on a supposed Compound derived 



from Leather . . . . . 

 H. C. Chapman, M.D. On Echinorh^aichus Moniliformis 

 E. Goldsmith. Analysis of Graphite from Wythe Count}', Ya 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. Notice of some new Fresh-water Rhizopods 

 H. C. Chapman, M.D. On the Generative Apparatus of Teben 



nophorus Caroliuensis 



Thomas Meehan. The Yeins of Beech and Hornbean Leaves 



Thomas Meehan. Direct Growth Force . 



T. A. Conrad. Description of two new Fossil Shells of the 



Upper Amazon ........ 



Thomas Meehan. Habits of the Orchard Oriole 



Thomas Meehan. Poisonous Character of the Flowers of "Wis 



taria sinensis 



Thomas Meehan. Growth of Cuicus arvensis, Hoff 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. On the Geology of Pilot Knob, Iron 



Mountain, and Mine La Motte, Mo 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Notice of some Fresh-water and Terres 



trial Rhizophods 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on the Revivification of Rotifer 



vulgaris 



Edward D. Cope. On a Young Balaena cisarctica . 



Edward D. Cope. On the Crania of Symborodon . 



B. Waterhouse Hawkins. On the Pelvis of Hadrosaurus 



Edward D. Cope. On the Pelvis of Hadrosaurus . 



Edward D. Cope. On a Species of Ctenodus from Ohio 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. On the Chemical Formulas of Minerals 92, 110 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Disposition of the Latissimus Dorsi, 



etc., in Ateles and Macacus ..... 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Flexor Brevis Digitorum in Ateles Ge 



offi-oyi (Kuhl) 



15 



16 



11 

 11 



19 

 80 

 80 



82 

 84 



84 

 84 



85 



86 



88 

 89 

 89 

 90 

 91 

 91 



94 



94 



(Continued on p. 3.) 



'-'^^^^ 




PROCEEDINGS 





OF THE 



catlfmjj of latiiral Sclnu^s 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III. October, November , and Decem- 

 ber, 1874. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. W. Tryon. Jr., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RUSCHBNBERGEK, M.D. 



^ 



"-^ 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1875. 



4- 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEllY OF NATUIiAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Vol. VIII., Part I. 

 (Quarto) have been issued 1847 to 1874. Tlie price per volume of four parts 

 is' $10.00, or $3.00 per part, to subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or 

 $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and 

 Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illus- 

 trated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The FiKST Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eifjht volumes, octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00, to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



Tlie Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00, , 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal op Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides aliout a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOB SALE. 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 



Description of Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Unionid^ of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 



uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



Monograph op the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



Monograph op the Fresh-water Univalve Mollusca op the United States. 

 By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00 ; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, oorner 

 of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



Agents, 



February, 1875. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



. Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTENTS Continued 



Joseph Letdy, M.D. Notice of Rhizopods 



Persifor Frazer, Jr. Weathering of Rocks 



Report of Librarian 



Report of Curators 



Report of Recorder of Biological and Microscopical 



Report of Conservator of Coiichological Section 



Election of Officers for 1875 



Elections during 1874 



Correspondence of the Academy 



Additions to the Library 



Index to Genera 



General Index .... 



Section 



225 

 228 

 228 

 230 

 233 

 234 

 235 

 23fi 

 238 

 242 

 261 

 265 




CONTENTS. 



Thomas Meehan. Wheat and Chess .... 



John H. Redfield. New Growth of Plants 



John H. Redfield. On Asplenium ebenoides . 



Joseph Leidy, M.l). Notice of some Rhizopods 



Thomas Meehan. Variations in Solanum Fendleri . 



J. Gibbons Hunt, M.D. Ciystallization in Plants . 



Thomas Meehan. Abies concolor in California 



Thomas Meehan. Fertilization of Gentiana . 



Thomas Meehan. Variations in Leaves of Ailanthus gland u 



losa 



James Lewis, M.D. On a new variet}"- of Helix 



J. Gibbons Hunt, M.D. Wheat and Chess 



Joseph Willcox. Mountain Drainage of Eastern Tennessee 



and Western North Carolina. Ancient Burial Custom 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Notice of Remains of Titanotherium 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Notice of Rhizopods 

 Persifor Frazer, Jr. On the Geology of certain Lands in 



Ritchie and Tyler Counties, W. Va. .... 

 Elliott Coues, M.D. Synopsis of the Muridai of North Ame 



rica .......... 



Aug. R. Grote. New Species of North American Noctuidse 

 Thomas Meehan. Anthers of Ambrosia artemisiajfolia . 

 Thomas Meehan. Dimorphism in Apples 

 A. G. Reed, M.D. Blindness of Salmon .... 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. On Specific Gravitj- 



Thomas Meehan. Coloring of Autumn Leaves 



Harold Herrick. Description of a new species of Helmintho 



phaga . . . . 

 Thomas Meehan. Continuous Growth in Fungoidal Excres 



cences ....... 



Edward D. Cope. On a new Mastodon and Rodent 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D. Remarks on Fossils presented 

 Edward D. Cope. On the Characters of Symborodon 

 Edward D. Cope. On Dr. Leidy's "Correction" 



(Continued on p 



153 

 154 

 155 

 155 

 158 

 158 

 159 

 160 



160 

 162 

 163 



164 

 165 

 166 



168 



1T3 

 197 

 215 

 215 

 216 

 218 

 218 



220 



221 



221 

 223 

 224 

 224 

 3.) 






I MBl. WHUl I.IBKAKV 



UH IfiRfi V 





