





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1897. 



COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION: 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D., 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1898. 




H 2 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 3, 1898. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings of the Academy for 

 1897 have been presented to the meetings of the Academy and mailed as fol- 

 lows : — 



DOCKER-FOSTER CO., PRINTERS, PHI LA. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications, Announcements, etc., see General Index. 



Allen, Harbison, M. D. Observations on Tarsius fuscus . . 34 



Benedict, James E., Ph. D. A Revision of the Genus Synapta . 389 



Brinton, Daniel G,, M. D. Dr. Allen's Contributions to An- 

 thropology . 522 



Cockerell, T. D. A. New and Little-known North American 



Bees 334 



Cockerell, T. D. A. and Wm. J. Fox. New Fossorial Hymen- 



optera from New Mexico ...... 135 



Ford, John. Cyprsea lynx deformed by Disease . . . 328 



Fox, William J. Contributions to a knowledge of the Hymen- 



optera of Brazil, No. 2— Pompilidse (Plate IV) . . 229 

 Contributions to a knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, 

 No. 3 — Sphegidse (sens, lat.) ...... 373 



Frazer, Dr. Persifor. Geological Section from Moscow to 



Siberia and Return ....... 405 



Heath, Harold. External Features of Young Cryptochiton 



(Plate VIII) 299 



Jordan, David Starr and Cloudsley Rutter. A Collection of 



Fishes made by Joseph Seed Roberts in Kingston, Jamaica 91 



Keller, Ida A. Notes on Underground Runners (Plate III) . 161 

 Notes on Plant Monstrosities (Plate V) 288 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life Histories of Plants, 

 No. XII : The Fecundity of Heliophytum indicum ; The 

 Origin of the Forms of Flowers ; Spines in the Citrus Fam- 

 ily; Flowers and Flowering of Lamium purpureum; 

 Cleistogamy in Umbelliferse ; Rhythmic Growth in Plants ; 

 Pellucid Dots in some Species of Hypericum ; Honey 

 Glands of Flowers ; Varying Phyllotaxis in the Elm ; 

 Folial Origin of Cauline Structures ; Polarity in the Leaves 

 of the Compass and other Plants; Hybrids in Nature; 



) <f 



>> ^ (o 




Origin and Nature of Glands in Plants; Nutrition as 

 affecting the forms of Plants and their Floral Organs ; 



Some Neglected Studies 169 



Morris, Charles. The Primeval Ocean 12 



Nolan, Edw. J., M. D. Biographical Notices of Harrison Allen 



and George Henry Horn ...... 505 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. Demonstrations of Absorptions of Car- 

 bon Dioxide and of the Generation of Oxygen by Diatoms. 142 

 Pilsbry, H. A. Descriptions of new South American Bulimuli. 18 

 New Species of Mollusks from Uruguay (Plates VI and VII). 290 

 New Achatinidse and Helicidae from Somaliland . . 357 



New Australian Mollusks (Plate IX) 360 



New Brazilian Streptaxidse ...... 477 



Descriptions of two New Forms of Perideris . . . 503 

 Pilsbry, H. A. and Benjamin Sharp, M. D. Scaphopoda of the 



San Domingo Tertiary (Plates X and XI) . . .465 

 Pilsbry, H. A. and E. G. Vanatta. Descriptions of two new 



Species of Cerion ........ 365 



Rhoads, Samuel N. A Contribution to the Mammalogy of 



Northern New Jersey ,,,,.,. 23 

 A Contribution to the Mammalogy of Central Pennsylvania. 204 

 A new Southeastern Race of Little Brown Bat . , . 227 



A Revision of the West American Flying Squirrels . . 314 



Notes on Living and Extinct Species of North American 



Bovida? (Plate XII) 483 



Dr. Allen's Zoological Work 518 



Rhoads, Samuel N. and Robert T. Young. Notes on a Collection 



of small Mammals from Northeastern North Carolina . 303 

 Rutter, Cloudsley. A Collection of Fishes obtained in Swatow, 



China, by Miss Adele M. Fielde 56 



Schively, Mary A., M, D. The Anatomy and Development 



of Spirorbis borealis (Plates I and II) . , . . 153 



Smith, John B, Dr, Horn's Contributions to Coleopterology . 529 



Stone, Witmer. The Genus Sturnella 146 



On the Annual Molt of the Sanderling .... 368 

 Van Denburgh, John. Reptiles from Sonora, Sinaloa and 

 Jalisco, with a Description of a new Species of Scelo- 

 porus ......... t 



460 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1897. 



January 5. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Contribution to the Mammalogy of Northern 

 New Jersey," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



The Council reported its organization and the appointment of the 

 following Standing Committees to serve during the current year. : — 



On Library. — Charles P. Perot, Arthur Erwin Brown, Harrison 

 Allen, M. D., Henry C. Chapman, M. D. and Henry A. Pilsbry. 



On Publications. — Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, George 

 H. Horn, M. D., Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. and Henry Skinner, M. D. 



On Instruction. — Uselma C. Smith, Harrison Allen, M. D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Newlin Peirce, D. D. S. and Samuel N. Rhoads. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Isaac J. Wistar, 

 Theodore D. Rand, William Sellers and Benjamin Tilghman. 

 2 




10 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



January 12. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



The Affinities of Floridian Miocene Land Snails. — Mr. Pilsbry 

 spoke of the Miocene Helices and Bulimi from the Silex-beds of 

 Tampa, Florida, stating that the fauna was of as purely Antillean 

 type as that of the Bahamas to-day. Helix latebrosa, instrumosa, 

 cnista, etc., belonging to the Plagioptycha section of the genus Cep- 

 olis. " Helix" haruspica proved to belong, as Dall had suspected, 

 to the genus Pleurodonta, and therein is about equally allied to 

 Cuban, Jamaican and Caribbean forms now existing. 



The Bulimiform snails of the Silex-beds numbered some four or 

 five species. They have a reflexed peristome, and a heavy deposit 

 upon the parietal wall, which is most strongly developed toward the 

 posterior angle of the aperture, but is there separated from the pos- 

 terior termination of the outer lip by a narrow channel, somewhat 

 as in certain European and Asiatic species of Buliminus, but entirely 

 different from the structure of the same part of the shell in Ameri- 

 can Buliiinilidoz. In a species from the island of Fernando Nor- 

 onha, however, an identical structure occurs. In fact, this species, 

 the Bulimus ridleyi of Smith, is so similar to some of the Miocene 

 forms of the Silex-beds that apart from size they are not readily dis- 

 tinguishable. There can be no reasonable doubt, therefore, that B. 

 ridleyi is a living representative of this Miocene group, preserved 

 practically unchanged on the remote island of Fernando Noronha, 

 while the group has been wholly crowded out of existence in the 

 continental faunas. 



The name Hjperaxdax was proposed for the group, which now in- 

 cludes the following species: 



Bulimulus (Hyperaulax) ridleyi Smith (type). 



Bulimulus (Hyperaulax) floridanus Conrad. 



Bulimulus (Hyperaulax) heilprinianus Dall. 



Bulimulus (Hyperaulax) americanus Dall. 



Bulimulus (Hyperaidax) steamsii Dall. 



All but the first of these being fossils of the Silex-beds. 



Hyperaulax may for the present be considered a subgenus of Buli- 

 iii a his; but the final position and rank of the group awaits invest- 

 igation of the soft anatomy. It belongs to Division II of the 

 speaker's classification of Bulimuli, having vertically wave-wrinkled 

 nepionic whorls. A similar reflexed peristome occurs in the sub- 

 genus Rhinus, but that group wholly lacks the other special features 

 of the aperture already alluded to. 



January 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 




1897.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



The deaths, on the 15th inst, of John H. Campbell and Charles 

 H. Banes, members, were announced. 



The Gastropod Radula. — Mr. Pilsbry spoke of the development 

 and specialization of the radula in streptoneurous Gastropoda, show- 

 ing that the law of mesometamorphosis, originally based upon ortho- 

 neurous forms (Helicidce 1 ), is equally applicable to the Prosobranchs. 

 His remarks were illustrated by black-board diagrams and a series 

 of specimens. 



January 26. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



Charles J. Pennock and Williams Biddle Cadwalader were 

 elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 



1 Guide to the Study of Helices, Man. Conch., ix, p. xiii, (1895). 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897, 



THE PRIMEVAL OCEAN. 

 BY CHARLES MORRIS. 



In dealing with the conditions of the remote past it is impossible 

 to avoid hypothesis, since exact knowledge is not within our reach. 

 The best that can be done is to support hypothesis, as far as possi- 

 ble, with facts drawn from experimental science. It is only in this 

 way that we can deal with the problem of the Primeval Ocean, by 

 seeking evidence for speculative conception in existing facts. The 

 views which are entertained, for instance, concerning the former 

 greatly heated condition of the earth, which must largely affect any 

 hypothesis concerning the ocean, are mainly speculative. Yet there 

 are so many facts to sustain them that they are generally accepted 

 as well founded ; and if we accept the view that the earth has 

 gradually cooled to its present state from a former greatly heated 

 or vaporized condition, certain conclusions concerning the former 

 state of the ocean and atmosphere become inevitable. 



At one time, under such circumstances, there could have been no 

 ocean, since all the water of the earth must have existed as atmos- 

 pheric vapor. Still more remotely, perhaps, no water existed, the 

 temperature being too high for that combination of oxygen and hy- 

 drogen to which it is due. Such a condition probably exists now in 

 the solar spheres, whose atmospheres contain an abundance of free 

 hydrogen. 



As regards the oceanic and atmospheric conditions of an earth 

 chemically like the one we inhabit, but differing from it greatly in 

 temperature, there are certain conclusions which appear inevitable. 

 If, for example, the surface of the earth should become so heated as 

 to raise the oceanic waters to the temperature of 212° F., that is, to 

 the boiling point under present atmospheric pressure, there would 

 result a very considerable evaporation of the waters of the ocean, 

 but by no means a total one. In fact, the great bulk of the ocean 

 would l'emain in its bed, since the pressure of the atmosphere would 

 be much enhanced by its increase of aqueous vapor, and the boiling 

 point of water be correspondingly raised. Therefore, during the 

 ancient cooling of the earth, the aqueous vapor of the atmosphere 

 must have begun to condense into water long before the temperature 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



sank to 212°, and the earliest ocean must have formed at a much 

 higher tempei'ature. 



We have experimental evidence of the boiling point of water 

 under pressure up to a certain limit of temperature. Under a pres- 

 sure of one atmosphere, as is well known, water boils at 212° F. 

 With increase of pressure the boiling point rises, but not in an 

 equivalent ratio, since the energy of evaporation increases more 

 rapidly than that of pressure. For example, under five atmospheres 

 of pressure water boils at about 300° F. ; under fifteen atmospheres 

 it boils at about 400° F. ; under twenty-five atmospheres it boils at 

 about 440° F. I have given approximate temperatures, so as to 

 state them in round numbers, the actual temperatures differing 

 slightly from those stated. 



It is evident from the figures given, that as the temperature rises 

 the energy of evaporation steadily gains the ascendency over that of 

 pressure. At 300°, one hundred degrees of temperature must be 

 added to produce ten additional atmospheres of pressure. At 400° 

 ou ly forty degrees of temperature are needed for the same result. 

 Experiment has gone no further, and we are not aware at what rate 

 the temperature of the boiling point would increase under higher 

 pressures. But if we may judge from the rapidly accelerated in- 

 crease of evaporative energy with increase of temperature, it may 

 be that at some point between 600° and 800°, all the waters of the 

 ocean would be converted into vapor and form part of the atmos- 

 phere. 



At the boiling point of 440°, which yields twenty-five atmos- 

 pheres of pressure, one-twelfth of the oceanic waters would be con- 

 verted into vapor, and eleven-twelfths continue as water. A total 

 evaporation of the oceanic waters would produce a pressure of about 

 three hundred atmospheres, or 4,500 pounds on each square inch of 

 surface. The primeval pressure must have been still greater, since 

 much water which has sunk into the earth's crust and forms no part 

 of the present ocean must then have added to the volume of atmos- 

 pheric vapor. We cannot affirm at what limit of temperature this 

 great pressure would be overcome, but, from the rapid rate of in- 

 crease in evaporative energy observed between one and twenty-five 

 atmospheres of pressure, it seems not improbable that this limit 

 would be reached, as above said, at some point between 600° and 800°. 



At the period in question, when all the ocean was in the air, 

 the enormous pressure must have exerted an important influence 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



upon the surface conditions of the earth. There may have been 

 then a very active tendency to volcanic or earthquake disturbances, 

 but this tendency must have been held greatly in check by the pres- 

 sure. This great pressure must also have exerted a vigorous influ- 

 ence in condensing surface and aerial materials, converting vapors 

 into liquids and liquids into solids, and thus have played its part in 

 the formation of a solid crust. Again, the abundant aqueous vapor 

 must have been active in the process of surface cooling, rising in 

 heated winds and conveying heat to the upper air. Finally, as the 

 temperature fell, the pressure of the vapor condensed some of its own 

 material into water. The escape of heat then grew still more rapid, 

 through the aid of evaporating water and falling rain, processes 

 which may have long been incessant. 



As the surface cooled, through these and other influences, the 

 conversion of vapor into water went on more rapidly, and the atmos- 

 pheric pressure steadily decreased. This was probably attended 

 with an increase in surface disturbances, the wave of disturbance 

 growing in height as the pressure diminished. As the solid crust 

 grew thicker and the rocks more rigid from progressive cooling, 

 these seismic disturbances again diminished. There was thus prob- 

 ably a cycle of change, from an originally level and quiescent sur- 

 face to one of ridges and depressions with great disturbance, and 

 again to one of growing quiescence and gradual reduction of ine- 

 qualities. 



Of the chemical activity of water at a temperature of over 600° 

 we have no knowledge, as water of this temperature has not been 

 produced in laboratories under circumstances suitable for experi- 

 ment. Its solvent powers would probably be very great, and many 

 substances may have been held in solution in the waters of the 

 primeval ocean which are insoluble at present temperatures. These 

 substances were, probably, in part washed down from the air into 

 the gathering ocean, in part dissolved from the surface. The bring- 

 ing together of numerous elementary substances or simple compounds 

 in a common menstruum was undoubtedly followed by great chemical 

 activity, and numerous compounds of more or less intricacy were 

 formed in the heated waters. Of these, some were insoluble and 

 settled to the bottom ; others were soluble and continued in solution. 

 The salts of the present ocean are doubtless, in great measure, the 

 final outcome of these ancient solutions and chemical actions. They, 

 in all probability, represent but a small fraction of the substances 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



then held in solution by the heated oceanic waters, which, from their 

 large percentage of foreign constituents, may have been almost jelly- 

 like in consistency. 



It is impossible to estimate the chemical activity of that period. 

 The high temperature of the waters greatly favored such action, and 

 among the dissolved substances were probably many unoxydized 

 materials, now first freely exposed to the assaults of oxygen. The 

 energy of chemism that ensued was probably greater than had ever 

 before or has ever since existed. In addition to simple oxides, many 

 more complex substances were doubtless formed, and it may be that 

 many of the constituents of the primeval rocks then and thus first 

 came into existence. 



The story of chemical activity in the earth is, therefore, very 

 closely connected with that of the ocean. It began, no doubt, in 

 the primeval atmosphere, but reached its culmination in the waters 

 of the ocean. During the early period of the earth chemical 

 inaction must have long prevailed, on account of high temperature 

 and unfavorable physical conditions. Perhaps the principal chem- 

 ical action of the primeval atmosphere was the combination of oxy- 

 gen and hydrogen into water vapor. But, on the formation of an 

 ocean of highly heated waters, holding in solution a considerable 

 variety of elementary substances and simple compounds, chemism 

 probably grew active, and in time became very energetic as the 

 waters increased in depth and in the variety and volume of their 

 contents. Many of the complex minerals were very likely then 

 formed, and, being insoluble, were separated from the water and de- 

 posited as rock formations. Only when the ocean became, in a 

 measure, freed from its abundance of foreign material, did this ac- 

 tivity of inorganic chemistry decrease. It has continued to decrease 

 until the present time, when it has practically ceased to exist, oxida- 

 tion having reduced nearly all substances to a state of chemical 

 fixity. 



It has been succeeded by an era of organic chemical action, which 

 is, at present, in a state of full activity, and promises long to con- 

 tinue so. It began in the early seas, probably after their temperature 

 had diminished to near or below the present boiling point. It grad- 

 ually replaced inorganic chemism, and has long continued active, at 

 first in the water, and later on the land also. It is now, and has 

 long been, at its maximum activity, the quantity of new material 

 produced in the plant and animal world being annually enormous. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Continued refrigeration must, in time, repress this organic activ- 

 ity and bring it finally to an end, the chemical inertness once due to 

 extreme heat being paralleled by a similar inertness due to extreme 

 cold. The interval between is that of the earth's chemical history. 

 In the history of chemistry we ]:>erceive, therefore, two great cycles, 

 an inorganic one, whose principal feature is oxidation, which reached 

 its culmination in the remote past, and an organic one, whose prin- 

 cipal feature is deoxidation, which is now at its culminating poiut. 



The question which naturally follows is : When did inorganic ac- 

 tivity cease, and organic activity begin, and to what extent is the 

 latter an outgrowth from the former? The reduction of the temper- 

 ature of the ocean had much to do with this change, inorganic action 

 being probably favored by a high temperature, while organic action 

 may have been impossible in waters much above 212°. These two 

 phases of chemical activity differ strikingly in one particular. In- 

 organic chemism had a fixed period of duration, beyond which it 

 could not exist. When there remained no more substance in con- 

 dition to be seized upon by oxygen, this phase of chemical action 

 necesssarily ceased. Organic chemism has no such limitation. It 

 may continue in activity, under favorable conditions of temperature 

 and sunlight, indefinitely, its material being practically inexhaust- 

 ible. Only decrease in temperature can bring it to an end. 



As the waters of the primeval ocean slowly cooled, and inorganic 

 chemism declined in activity, organic chemism probably set in, 

 aided by the solar rays, then perhaps first freely reaching the waters. 

 The material for this new phase of action had been prepared before 

 and existed abundantly in the water and air. It may have had its 

 origin in an early reaction between carbon dioxide and the elements 

 of water, yielding the hydro-carbons ; and subsequently between 

 these and nitrogen, yielding the far more complex albuminous com- 

 pounds. 



Certainly organic forms appeared in the waters of that period, 

 and conditions favoring their formation must have existed. We do 

 not know through what successive steps of chemical combination the 

 complex organic molecules arose. We do know that many of the 

 preceding mineral molecules were quite complex in composition, 

 and can reasonably deduce from this that still more complex mole- 

 cules arose under conditions restraining the activity of oxygen. 

 Seed forms of organic substance may have first appeared — simple 

 carbon compounds. These would serve as the basis of more complex 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



molecules, and there may have been a long-continued process of de- 

 oxidation and formation of higher carbon and nitrogen compounds, 

 till true organic matter appeared and the chemistry of life came 

 fairly into play. 



I have but one further suggestion to offer. That is, that the con- 

 ditions favoring the development of organic material were transitory, 

 and no longer exist. If living matter were now swept from the 

 earth, it could not, in any probability, be restored. Its seed condi- 

 tions have passed away. They could not reappear in water of the 

 temperature of the present ocean and the existing chemical rela- 

 tions of inorganic matter. Organic chemistry emerged from a 

 vitally active stage of inorganic chemistry. It could not well arise 

 from the existing passive stage of inorganic chemistry. Fortunately, 

 conditions favoring the origin of organized matter are no longer 

 needed. Organisms have within themselves the power of inducing 

 new chemical action to an indefinite extent. A plant is a natural or- 

 ganic laboratory, within which new organic material is elaborated 

 from elementary constituents which exist abundantly in air and 

 water. From the plant the animal derives the more complex ma- 

 terial it requires. Thus the process goes continually on, and can 

 only be brought to an end by a fall in temperature below the point 

 requisite for organic chemism. How far in the future this will be it 

 is impossible to predict, but the reign of life, which has continued 

 for many millions of years upon the earth, will, in all probability, 

 continue for many millions of years to come. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SOUTH AMERICAN BULIMULI. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



The species described below have been found during the writer's 

 work on the group in the Manual of Conchology. Illustrations of 

 them will appear in due course in that series of monographs. 



Bulimulus rushii, gorritiensis and corumbaensis belong to the typi- 

 cal section of the genus, characterized by densely wave-wrinkled 

 apical sculpture. B. pachys, chrysaloicles, glyptocephalus and sar- 

 cochrous have separated, straight vertical riblets on the nepionic 

 whorls, much as in the Galapagos group Ncesiotes, or the northern 

 Mexican and Lower Californian groups. 



Bulimulus rushii n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate, globose- ovate, rather thin but solid, light yellow- 

 ish. Surface with inconspicuous growth-wrinkles and extremely 

 fine, close incised spiral strice, visible only above the periphery. 

 Spire very short, conic, the apex obtuse. Whorls slightly over 6,. 

 moderately convex, the suture shallow but well marked. Aperture 

 slightly oblique, ovate, a trifle over half the total length of shell ; 

 peristome simple, unexpanded, the columellar margin broadly dilated 

 above. Alt. 19J, diam. 14 mill.; alt. of aperture 10 mill. 



Maldonado, Uruguay (Dr. W. H. Rush). 



Apparently allied to B. sporadicus and B. vesicalis, especially to 

 the stouter variety of the latter species ; but conspicuously different 

 in the very short spire, globose form and widely open, deeply pene- 

 trating umbilicus. By an inadvertent exchange of labels, a wrong 

 locality was given in the catalogue of Dr. Rush's shells in the Nau- 

 tilus. It has been figured but not described in the Manual of Con- 

 chology, pi. 12, fig. 47. 



Bulimulus gorritiensis n. sp. 



B. gorritiensis Pils., Nautilus x, p. 78 (name only). 



Shell perforate, ovate-turreted, thin and fragile, corneous-brown 

 or dirty corneous-whitish. Surface slightly shining, sculptured with 

 irregular and rather coarse wrinkles of growth. Spire elevated, 

 rather slender, the lateral outlines straight ; apex quite obtuse, the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



nepionic whorls shallowly, rather irregularly zig-zag wrinkled in the 

 young, this sculpture lost with age. Whorls 6£, convex, with well 

 impressed sutures. 



Aperture ovate, rather wide, brownish inside, varying from slightly 

 to decidedly under half the length of the shell ; outer lip regularly 

 arcuate, acute, unexpanded and fragile, columella slightly concave, 

 the columellar margin narrowly reflexed above. 



Alt. 20 diam. 10J mill. ; alt. of aperture 9 mill. 



Alt. 17? diam. 8 mill. ; alt. of aperture 7 mill. 



Alt. 17 diam. 8f mill ; alt. of aperture 8 mill. 



Gorriti Island, Maldonado Bay, Uruguay (Dr. Wm. H. Rush, 

 U. S. K). 



A smaller, thinner, more turreted shell than B. sporadicus or its 

 varieties, the whorls more convex, apex blunter, the first whorl be- 

 ing planorboid. The whorls are more convex and more wrinkled 

 than in B. tenuissimus. 



Bulimulus corumbaensis n. n. 



Bulimus amcenus Bonnet, Eev. et. Mag. de Zool., 1864, p. 70, pi. 6, f. 2. 

 Not Bulimus amcenus Pfr. 



The locality given by Bonnet for this species is incorrect. It oc- 

 curs at Corumba, province of Matto Grosso, Brazil, where Mr. 

 Herbert H. Smith found it common on walls, etc. B. corumbaensis 

 is closely allied to the typical form of B. sporadicus Orb., but it is a 

 less elongated shell, solid, with distinctly expanded peristome and 

 very widely dilated columellar lip, the umbilicus larger than in spor- 

 adicus. The striped color pattern is a conspicuous but variable 

 character. It belongs to the restricted subgenus Bulimulus (-\-Lep- 

 tomerus). 



It may be remarked here that but few of the localities given by 

 Bonnet, for species described in the paper mentioned above, are cor- 

 rect. His Helix vitrea is not South American. Bulimus pictus is 

 not Peruvian, being a form of Drymceus pozcilus Orb. of Bolivia 

 (Province Santa Cruz) and Matto Grosso. Pupavarius, said to be 

 Tasmanian, is a mottled race of Cerion glans, of New Providence, 

 Bahamas. 



Bulimulus angrandianus n. n. 



Bulimus radiatus Morelet, Series Conchyliologiques, III, p. 188, pi. 9, f. 2. 

 Not Bulimus radiatus Bruguiere. 



The name of this Peruvian species of the section Lissoaeme being 

 preoccupied, may be changed as above. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Bulimulus pachys n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate, ovate-conic, solid and strong ; surface smoothish, 

 with slight growth-wrinkles, rather regular and close on the spire 

 and disposed to be interrupted. Spire acutely and straightly conic 

 with subhorizontal sutures, the apex small, obtuse, earlier If whorls 

 regularly and rather finely costulate vertically. Whorls 7s, con- 

 vex ; sutures well impressed, the last hardly descending ; last 

 whorl regularly convex and inflated. 



Aperture subvertical, ovate, somewhat over half the length of 

 shell, white inside ; peristome unexpanded, rather blunt, the outer 

 margin regularly arched, columella slightly concave, its margin 

 broadly reflexed, with a salient angle at junction of reflexion with 

 basal lip ; parietal callus moderate ; umbilicus deep and rounded. 



Alt. 32J diam. 20; alt. of aperture 18 mill. 



Province of Bahia, Brazil (v. d. Busch). 



The type is a faded, decolored specimen, showing traces of a 

 median white girdle, brown above and slightly so below it, as in B. 

 durus Spix. It is considerably like B. heterotrichus in size and form, 

 but is unlike that species in the less oblique aperture with blunt, un- 

 expanded outer lip, the differently formed columella and the costu- 

 late apical whorls. In general aspect it somewhat resembles Bin- 

 ney's B. patriarcha. The columellar lip is pressed in above, unlike 

 that of B. durus, which is, besides, a smaller species. 



Bulimulus chrysaloides n. sp. 



Shell perforate, oblong turreted, thin, deep reddish-chestnut, 

 somewhat paler on the spire ; surface lusterless, with irregular, indis- 

 tinct growth wrinkles and microscopic crowded spiral strige, very 

 superficial and probably cuticular. Spire long, the apex obtuse, 

 If nepionic whorls regularly- vertically costellate, the riblets straight, 

 closer on the latter portion. Whorls 6s, moderately convex, the 

 last a trifle descending in front ; sutures impressed. 



Aperture small and short, slightly oblique, short-oval, contained 

 slightly less than 2 s times in length of shell, brownish-vinous with- 

 in ; peristome thin, slightly expanded ; columellar margin expanded, 

 not reflexed, forming a long triangular plate concave on the apertural 

 side ; the inner edge of columella rather acute, slightly concave. 



Alt. 22, diam. 10 mill; alt. of aperture 8z mill. 



Alt. 18s, diam. 91 mill; alt. of aperture 8* mill. 



Martinique. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



The nepionic whorls, when unworn, show a vertically ribbed 

 sculpture very different from the reticulate apices of the B. exilis 

 group, but like the apex of B. sanctcelucice Smith. The peculiar 

 columella also somewhat resembles that species, which in propor- 

 tions is also quite similar, but the post-nepionic sculpture and dark 

 color of chrysaloides are unlike Smith's form. 



Bulimulus glyptocephalus n. sp. 



Shell narrowly perforated, long ovate, solid and thick, of chalky 

 texture. White or bluish- white, the apical whorl buff, the next 

 bluish below, pale above. Surface irregularly and coarsely wrinkle- 

 striate and conspicuously malleated ; apical whorl with conspicuous, 

 arcuate riblets, becoming closer and beaded on the second whorl. 

 Spire conic, the apex very obtuse, siltures impressed ; whorls 5?, 

 weakly convex, the last suture slightly more descending along the 

 latter half, and consequently a trifle oblique to the others. 



Aperture a trifle exceeding half the total altitude of shell, sub- 

 vertical, white inside, with a faint narrow band at position of the 

 periphery and another wide one above ; outer lip blunt, obtuse, not 

 expanded; columella concave below, straighter above, the columel- 

 lar margin broadly dilated above, reducing the umbilicus to a 

 chink; parietal callus white, rather thin. Alt. 31, diam. 17 mill.; 

 alt. of aperture 15 J mill. 



Peru (A. Agassiz). 



A peculiar form unlike any Peruvian species known to me except 

 the next, in the characters of the earlier whorls. It differs from the 

 following species in its elliptical-ovate shape and larger aperture. 



Bulimulus sarcochrous n. sp. 



Shell narrowly umbilicated, ovate-conic, solid and strong. Fleshy 

 white, becoming flesh-pink and then brownish above, the earlier 2 

 whorls brown below, white above. Surface irregularly, weakly 

 striate, more wrinkled below the sutures, faintly malleated on the 

 body whorl ; apical sculpture as in .the preceding species, except 

 that the riblets are less prominent and are much finer and closer on 

 the second whorl. Spire straightly conic, the apex very obtuse; 

 whorls 5], nearly flat, the last one not more rapidly descending than 

 the rest. 



Aperture ovate, one-half the altitude of shell, vertical, light brown 

 inside, with a faint, narrow light band at position of the periphery,, 

 and white within the lip-edge ; outer lip obtuse and rather thick, not 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



expanded ; columella with an oblique fold above, the columellar 

 margin well dilated, rounded. Alt. 29, diam. 16 mill.; alt. of aper- 

 ture 14z mill. 



Peru. 



Closely allied to the preceding species, but the spire is more slen- 

 der, the umbilicus larger, surface less malleated and the columellar 

 fold more conspicuous. The apical riblets are finer and closer, less 

 coarsely granulated on the second whorl. 



Drymseus (Neopetraeus) filiola n. sp. 



Shell acutely oblong-ovate, solid and strong. Opaque, whitish, 

 distinctly flesb tinted at apex and last whorl, the spire bluish. Sur- 

 face shining, very irregularly striated, with scattered short trans- 

 verse impressions. Whorls, fully 6J, the first nearly planorboid 

 above, the second much higher than wide, producing a mamillar 

 apex with the characteristic sculpture of the subgenus. Following 

 whorls of spire flat, acutely keeled, the keel appearing just above 

 sutures, becoming more obtuse and concealed below ; next to last 

 whorl convex ; last whorl oblong, convex. 



Aperture irregularly ovate, purple-brown inside ; peristome blunt, 

 hardly expanded, pale edged ; columellar margin vertical and 

 straight, parietal wall flesh-colored, with no perceptible callus. Col- 

 umella very broad above, obliquely truncated in the middle, pro- 

 ducing the effect of a large blunt tooth. Umbilicus perforated, with 

 a compressed, long chink behind the inner lip. Length 45, diam. 

 25, alt of aperture 22"5 mill. 



Peru. 



The largest member of the Neopetraeus group, strikingly unlike 

 other species known to me in contour of shell and columella. The 

 specific name is in allusion to my own little daughter Elizabeth. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE MAMMALOGY OF NORTHERN NEW JERSEY. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



The following notes on New Jersey mammals are based on per- 

 sonal experience had during three collecting trips in the northern 

 portion of the State. In some cases I have added to ray own obser- 

 vations those of people living in the localities named, whose testi- 

 mony was considered thoroughly reliable. 



Trip number one was made during the last week in May, 1893, to 

 Nolan's Point, Lake Hopatcong, Morris County, collecting being 

 confined within a radius of three miles from Nolan's Point Villa, on 

 the east shore of the lake. 



The second trip included a brief stay of five days daring the last 

 week in August, 1893, at a place near Delaware Gap station in the 

 western corner of Warren County. Trapping was restricted to a line 

 of woodland and meadow connecting a lake (Sunfish Pond) 2 miles 

 distant, with the farm-house in which I lodged near Delaware Gap. 



The third and most important trip covered a period of three 

 weeks, extending from the sixth to the thirtieth days of October, 

 1896. It included three stops of one week each ; the first at Cul- 

 ver's Lake, Sussex County, the second at Unionville, Orange County, 

 New York, just across the northern boundary of Sussex County 

 near the Walkill Valley, and the third at the southern end of 

 Greenwood Lake in Passaic County. 



Considered in their faunal, geological and topographic relations, 

 there is a great similarity in all the localities named, lying as they 

 do within the Alleghenian life region, as restricted by Dr. J. A. 

 Allen, and moulded by the powerful agencies of the glacial period 

 which has left its characteristic impress upon the greater part of 

 northern New Jersey. The mountains of Warren, Sussex and Pas- 

 saic Counties are the highest on the eastern side of the Delaware 

 River, several attaining the height of nearly 1,900 feet. The Kit- 

 tatinny Range, in its continuation northward from the Water Gap, 

 runs close to two stations named in the above itinerary, viz., Dela- 

 ware Gap on the western slope and Culver's Lake (Culver's Gap) on 

 the eastern. The mountain at these places is covered mainly with 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



deciduous trees, alternating with pines and occasional hemlock in 

 swampy localities, isolated bogs of tamarack and rhododendron and 

 fir affording retreat for animals more characteristic of the Canadian 

 fauna. 



The lakes of New Jersey are numerous ; Culver's Lake and Long 

 Lake together cover a considerable tract, and with their surround- 

 ings of swamp and mountain form a natural forest game preserve 

 that is well worth the future attention of the legislators of the State. 

 At Lake Hopatcong, the largest of all, the country is less mountain- 

 ous, and the fauna and flora shade somewhat into the Carolinian 

 elements, but at Greenwood Lake the western range of Greenwood 

 Mountain shows the most marked Canadian features noted in the 

 State, frequent swamps and bogs of white cedar, fir, pine, hemlock 

 and tamarack nestling among the depressions of the summits. 



The excursions of which the following pages form a summary are 

 part of the author's plan to make a comprehensive zoological survey 

 of all the counties of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, with special 

 reference to mammalogy and herpetology. About half of this labor 

 has been completed. 



1. Didelphis marsupialis virginiana (Kerr). Virginia Opossum. 



No specimens of opossum were taken. Its rare occurrence at 

 Greenwood Lake, where I was informed by the hunters that two 

 had been captured in the last two years, is of interest as showing the 

 presence of this animal in the most boreal surroundings which the 

 State affords. 



An examination of the large opossums of North and South Amer- 

 ica which belong to the marsupialis type of Linnseus, shows a spe- 

 cific difference in the character of the last premolar. In Brazilian 

 and Surinam specimens this tooth is a retrorse, blunt, rounded cone 

 with slight trace of a shoulder above the cingulum on the posterior 

 border. In examples from the eastern United States and Mexico 

 the tooth is sharply and abruptly conical, compressed laterally and 

 entirely surrounded by a tuberculate basal shoulder. Independently 

 of other marked characters, this is sufficient at once to divide spe- 

 cifically the composite group marsupialis as defined by Oldfield 

 Thomas 1 into two sections. A study of Linnaeus' description 2 leads 

 me to adopt Hernandez's Mexican animal as the least composite 

 type of marsupialis with definite given habitat. D. karkinophaga, 



^at. Marsup. Monot. B. Mus., 1888, pp. 323-327. 



-Syst. Nat., 1758, p. 54. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Zimmerman 3 is the first name given to the South American species 

 from Cayenne ; D. aurita Max. Wied 4 (=D. azarce Temm.) becoming 

 under the ruling of Thomas (la), D. karkinophaga aurita (Max. 

 Wied). 



2. Dorcelaphus virginianus (Bodd.). Virginia Deer. 



It has been many years since one of these animals was killed in 

 any of the localities visited. Several are confined in a game pre- 

 serve surrounding Sunfish Pond in Warren County, and a few in 

 the Dalrymple preserve on the east side of Long Lake in Sussex 

 County. 



3. ? Cervus canadensis (Erxl.). Wapiti. 



A hunter near Delaware Gap declared that his grandfather, who 

 "killed the last Elk shot in Pike County," Pennsylvania, stated that 

 sometimes the hounds would drive both elk and deer across the 

 Delaware River onto the Kittatinny Mountain. That the latter spe- 

 cies has quite recently been known to find temporary refuge in Sus- 

 sex County on this account is easily proved, and it is probable that 

 in this manner the Wapiti- has either voluntarity or involuntarily 

 become a member of the New Jersey fauna within the present cen- 

 tury. 



4. Lepus americanus Erxl. Varying Hare. 



Once pretty numerous in the tamarack swamps of northern New 

 Jersey, this species now seems to be exterminated. Mr. Larkin 

 Hazen stated that he shot one about six winters ago on Greenwood 

 Mountain just across the State line in Orange County, New York. 

 They used to frequent a small swamp near Culver's Gap, but I was 

 unable to find any trace of them there. 



5. Lepus sylvaticus Bachm. Wood Hare. 



No specimens of this common species were secured. On this ac- 

 count I am unable to say whether the subspecies transitionalis is 

 found in northern New Jersey. 



6. Synaptomys cooperi Baird. Cooper's Vole. 



Four specimens of Cooper's Vole were secured. The first, an 

 adult male, was trapped in a wet meadow close to woodland among 

 sphagnum and tussocks of Juncus ; and the second, an adult nurs- 

 ing female, under a heap of stones along the edge of dry wood-land 

 but quite near swampy ground. Both these specimens were caught 



| 3 Geog. Gesch., 1870, p. 226. 

 * Beitr. Nat. Bras., 1826, p. 395. 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



near the head of Long Lake, adjoining Bear Swamp, October 8th 

 and 15th, 1896. Two additional examples were trapped October 

 29th at Greenwood Lake, the first in a wet pasture lot at the south 

 end of the lake, the last along a deep ravine in Greenwood Mount- 

 ain, among sphagnum and grass by the road-side. 



In no case have I seen this species out of easy reach of sphagnum 

 or removed a stone's throw from woodland, even when wet meadows 

 afforded it a tempting diversion into open country. 



The specimens are esentially like those of this species taken in 

 Pennsylvania and New England, being uniformly lighter colored 

 than those found in the bogs of southern New Jersey at the same 

 season, to which I gave the name Synaptomys stonei in 1893, and 

 which a full series of specimens is likely to prove separable from 

 cooperi as a subspecies. 



I believe the above record of typical cooperi is the first for New 

 Jersey, though it is probable that Cooper's original specimen was 

 taken in the northern section of the State. 



7. Microtus pennsylvanious (Ord). Wilson's Meadow Vole. 



As was expected, the common meadow mouse proved very abund- 

 ant in all visited localities. 



Of the ninety specimens taken, none show any remarkable varia- 

 tion from the typical form found in southeastern Pennsylvania. 

 Several females contained embryos, while young of all stages of 

 growth were secured. It is not likely that the severest winter 

 weather puts any effectual period to the reproductive powers of this 

 animal. In old nursing females the fall moult seemed to be some- 

 times almost wholly arrested, their pelage presenting a very ragged 

 and faded appearance. 



8. Microtus pinetorum (LeC). Pine- woods Vole. 



Comparison of two specimens of this vole taken at Delaware Gap 

 shows no differences of even subspecific value to separate them from 

 individuals taken in the pine barrens of southern New Jersey. Un- 

 less South Carolina and Georgia specimens differ markedly from 

 any I have yet taken in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, the conclu- 

 sion of Audubon and Bachman, that scalopsoides is a synonym of 

 pinetorum, holds good. 



The individual and seasonal variations in this species among spec- 

 imens from the same locality are very great, making it necessary 

 that a large suite of skins from Florida to Massachusetts be con- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



suited to determine this point. In any event, all the Pine Voles of 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey belong more properly to the northern 

 type. 



No specimens were taken except at Delaware Gap. 



9. Evotomys gapperi (Vigors). Gapper's Wood Vole. 



Thirteen specimens were trapped in and about Bear Swamp near 

 Long Lake, and six more in a hemlock swamp in the bottoms of the 

 Walkill about two miles south of the New York State line. They 

 are similar to specimens from Quebec, being lighter colored than 

 those taken by Mr. Stone at May's Landing, New Jersey, in 1893. 



I am convinced that the reason this species was not taken near 

 Greenwood Lake, was my neglect to set traps in the more retired 

 and deep-shaded hemlock swamps. 



10. Fiber zibethious (L.). Muskrat. 



No specimens of this abundant species were taken, except at Lake 

 Hopatcong. 



11. Peromyscus leucopus (Raf.). Deer Mouse. 



A large series of deer mice from every locality mentioned in the 

 itinerary of this paper closely conform in character to those of other 

 parts of New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Though abundant in 

 localities where Evotomys was found, no specimens of P. canadensis 

 were secured among them, showing that the mountains of northern 

 New Jersey lack the more typical Canadian elements which are 

 found in isolated places in Pennsylvania where I have taken cana- 

 densis. 



There is a marked racial difference between leucopus of Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey and the type of leucopus found in Massachu- 

 setts and northern New York, the latter being smaller and brighter 

 colored with a narrower dark dorsal stripe and more hairy tail. 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey specimens are practically identical 

 with those collected by me in west Tennessee and Kentucky, where 

 the type form of leucopus defined by Rafinesque is found. It has 

 been proved by Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr., 5 that the Cricetus myodes of 

 Gapper applies to the smaller short-tailed deer mouse of Canada 

 which is apparently identical with those of northern New York and 

 New England. These facts induce me to revive the name myodes 

 for the small deer mouse of the eastern Canadian fauna, making it 

 read Peromyscus leucopus myodes (Gapper). 



5 Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1893, pp. 59, 60. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



12. Neotoma magister Baird. Allegheny Cave Rat. 



The occurrence of this rat in the Hudson highlands near New 

 Jersey, and in Massachusetts also, has for some years led mammalo- 

 gists to believe that its distribution across the intervening country 

 would be found continuous in favorable localities. Save the dis- 

 covery of their remains in the cave deposits of Monroe County, 

 Pennsylvania, there has been no definite record to my knowledge 

 which would connect their habitat in the Allegheny Mountains with 

 that on the Hudson River. I was informed, however, by a hunter 

 at Delaware Gap, that he knew of such an animal on the Kittatinny 

 Mountain in Warren County. This statement I was unable to ver- 

 ify, owing to my short stay at that place. It is very likely that this 

 rat will also be found on the Kittatinny range near Culver's Gap, 

 but during my visit no exploration of the summits was made. 



Soon after my arrival at Greenwood Lake, I was told by a local 

 sportsman that he had once caught a "wood rat'" on the mountain 

 in a deadfall set for skunks. The summits of Greenwood Mountain 

 at the south end of the lake are made up exclusively of great masses 

 of glaciated conglomerate and shale with perpendicular fissures and 

 steep faults running parallel with the northeast and southwest trend 

 of the range. Chestnut and scrub oaks and dwarfed pines and hem- 

 locks sparingly cover the nakedness of this desolate but picturesque 

 locality. Owing to their perpendicular cleavage, I found the rocks 

 rarely afforded the proper shelter for the abode of the cliff rat, and 

 it was only after nearly two days of climbing that I stumbled upon 

 an escarpment from which the rock masses had so fallen into the 

 gorge as to form a roof. Beneath this, unmistakable signs of the 

 rats were found, and in the two following days an adult male, a very 

 old female and a young male, about two-thirds grown, were secured. 

 These specimens differ in no respects from a series from the Penn- 

 sylvania Alleghenies taken at the same season. They form the first 

 New Jersey record of this interesting native rat. 



13. Mus decumanus Pallas. Norway Rat. 



14. Mus musculus L. House Mouse. 



Specimens of the House mouse were taken. Of the status of the 

 Black Rat, M. rattus, no notes were secured. 



15. Zapus hudsonius (Zimm.). Meadow Jumping Mouse. 



Ten specimens from Lake Hopatcong and three from near Cul- 

 ver's Lake represent this animal. The latter were taken in a wet 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



swamp grown up with Juncus and grasses. The temperature fell on 

 two nights when these were taken to near 32°, forming heavy frosts. 

 Their absence from my traps in the Walkill Valley and at Green- 

 wood Lake was undoubtedly due to the low temperature having 

 driven them all to their winter repose. A thick layer of yellow fat 

 completely covered the bodies of these Culver's Lake specimens, 

 adhering so firmly to the skin that it was very difficult to preserve 

 the specimens. 



16. Zapus insignis Miller. Woodland Jumping Mouse. 



I secured four beautiful specimens of this Zapus in woodland 

 along a small rocky stream connecting a rhododendron swamp with 

 Lake Hopatcong, near Nolan's Point. All were trapped close by 

 the water's edge, precisely as described by Mr. Miller in his later 

 account of the species. I have never taken this animal in open sit- 

 uations such as are preferred by its kinsman of the meadow.* The 

 most persistent trapping in likely places at Culver's and Greenwood 

 Lakes did not reveal the presence of insignis there. It seems prob- 

 able that it is more sensitive to frost than hudsonius and had gone 

 into winter quarters before my arrival at Culver's Lake. At Green- 

 wood Lake a dormant jumping mouse, evidently of this species from 

 the description given me by the finder, was dug out of a gravel 

 bank during my stay. I visited the spot, and from its situation in 

 deep woodland near a brook, I am morally sure it was insignis. The 

 narrator of the incident stated that he knew the meadow species 

 very well, but that this one was " much redder." These particulars 

 are given to show not only that insignis is found in Passaic County, 

 but to prove that it hibernates earlier than hudsonius. 



The presence of a persistent premolar in all other known species 

 of the genus as contrasted with its absence in Zapus insignis may 

 eventually entitle the latter to separate subgeneric rank. 



17. Castor canadensis Kuhl. American Beaver. 



Numerous localities in northern New Jersey are pointed out as 

 the traditional sites of beaver colonies. This animal was so early 

 exterminated in these places that I found it impossible to secure any 

 data relating to the time of their extinction. 



18. Arctomys monax (L.). Woodchuck; Ground Hog. 



Very abundant on the Delaware slope of the Kittatinny Mount- 

 ain ; less so in other localities named except at Lake Hopatcong. 

 No specimens were taken. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



It seems strange that the unmistakable difference in size and color 

 obtaining between the woodchucks of the Hudson Bay regions and 

 those of Maryland, the type locality of monax, should not have been 

 officially recognized. With Dr. Allen's excellent analysis ot its 

 nomenclature 6 as a basis, I see no objection to designating the wood- 

 chucks of eastern North America by the following formulae : — 



1. Arctomys monax (Linnaeus), Syst. Nat., 1758, p. 60; Maryland 

 Marmot. Size small ; color gray-brown, feet brown. Habitat. — 

 Carolinian fauna, intergrading northward through the Alleghenian 

 and Canadian fauna into 



2. Arctomys monax melanopus (Kuhl), Beitrage, 1820, p. 64 ; Hud- 

 son Bay Marmot. Size large ; color brown-black, feet black. Hab- 

 itat. — Hudsonian fauna, intergrading southward with typical monax. 



19. Tamias striatus (L.). Carolina Chipmunk. 



Forty specimens, representing every locality visited, show nearer- 

 affinities to the Carolinian than the Canadian form of our eastern 

 chipmunk. Those from Delaware Gap are scarcely separable from 

 southern New Jersey examples, the Greenwood Lake series being 

 nearest to lysteri of Maine, but much darker. This animal is very 

 abundant in Warren, Sussex and Passaic Counties, but not so num- 

 erous at Lake Hopatcong. 



A temperature of 28° during my stay at Greenwood Lake did not 

 wholly silence them, though it greatly lessened their activity and 

 apparent numbers. Contrary to what I expected, no really fat spec- 

 imens were procured, and all seemed most busily intent on gather- 

 ing and storing acorns at a season when they are generally supposed 

 to go into their winter sleep. About twenty per cent of those taken 

 had the tail shortened or injured in some manner. 



20. Sciurus hudsonicus loquax Bangs. Carolinian Chickaree. 



Numerous everywhere ; abundant in the deeper evergreen for- 

 ests. 



21. Sciurus carolinensis pennsylvanicus (Ord). Northern Gray Squirrel. 

 Not common except in the vicinity of Long Lake. 



Even the former existence of the Fox Squirrel in northern New 

 Jersey rests on such unreliable evidence that I am unwilling to in- 

 clude it in this paper. 



Monog. N. A. Eod., 1877, pp. 915-917. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



22. Sciuropterus volans (L.). Carolinian Flying Squirrel. 



A female and three young taken at Lake Hopatcong, and a male 

 from near Culver's Lake, show no tendency to gradation with the 

 northern animal. 



23. Procyon lotor (L.). Raccoon. 



Not rare. A special object of sport among the natives of Green- 

 wood Lake. 



24. Lutra hudsonica Lacep. Canadian Otter. 



The otter continues to exist in all the more secluded bodies of 

 water in the counties under consideration. Specimens had been 

 taken at Hopatcong, Culver's and Greenwood Lakes within a year 

 of my visits to these places. 



25. Putorius vison lutreocephalus (Harlan). Southeastern Mink. 



None of this species were seen. The hunters everywhere reported 

 them scarce. 



26. Putorius noveboracensis Emmons. Carolina Weasel. 



Not common and rarely becoming white in winter, even at Green- 

 wood Lake. 



27. Mephitis mephitica (Shaw). Northern Skunk. 



Not having specimens, I am induced to include the skunks of 

 northern New Jersey under the above name, solely on geographical 

 grounds. They are fairly abundant in the region. 



28. Ursus americanus Pallas. American Black Bear. 



No bears were reported to me as still existing in the localities vis- 

 ited. The recent killing of bears at Port Jervis, makes it possible 

 that they occasionally wander into the northwestern corner of Sus- 

 sex County. 



29. TJrocyon cinereoargenteus (Mull.). Northern Gray Fox. 



Reported to be rare by hunters. Outnumbering the red species 

 at Lake Hopatcong. 



30. Vulpes pennsylvanicus (Bodd.). American Red Fox. 

 Numerous in the rocky, mountainous districts. 



31. Canis nubilus Say. American Timber Wolf. 



This destructive animal was exterminated in northern New Jer- 

 sey so long ago that I could obtain no definite data of its disappear- 

 ance. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



32. Lynx ruffus (Gueldenstaedt). 7 Eastern Bay Lynx. 



Not yet exterminated in Sussex and Passaic Counties, but very 

 rarely taken. 



I have been unable to get any record of the Canada Lynx for this 

 region, though it probably wandered thither in earlier times. 



33. Felis ooncolor (L.). Puma. 



The same remarks which I have previously made regarding the 

 wolf are applicable to this animal. 



34. Scalops aquaticus (L.). Carolinian Mole. 



Not rare in suitable localities. None were secured. 



35. Condylura cristata (L.). Star-nose Mole. 



An old female and four nearly mature young were taken in the 

 same trap on successive days in the underground passage-ways of a 

 spring near Nolan's Point, Lake Hopatcong. The wrist and fore- 

 arms of the female are encircled by a clear bufly band. The throat, 

 breast and median abdominal line are suffused with dark orange. 



36. Blarina brevicauda (Say). Northern Mole Shrew. 



This Blarina is exceedingly abundant in all sorts of situations. 

 In Sussex and Passaic Counties it approaches closely in size to the 

 Canadian specimens. 



7 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia having recently come 

 into possession of the series of " Novi Co7nmentarii" of the Imperial Academy 

 of Sciences of St. Petersburg, I am enabled to consult for the first time the 

 reference made by Schreber in Volume 3 of the Saugtliiere, to the original 

 description of the Felis ruff a of Gueldenstaedt. 



Schreber's reference on p. 412 of the Saugthiere to Gueldenstaedt is faulty. 

 It reads " Felis rufa Guldenst, Nov. Comm. Acad. Imp. Sc. Petr., torn 20, p. 

 499." The specific name rufa should be ruffa, and Gueldenstaedt's name 

 should have an e in the first syllable. Baird's reference (Mam. N. A., 1857, 

 p. 90) quotes ruffa correctly. In common with other writers, Baird may have 

 thought Gueldenstaedt's spelling ruffa, a typographic error ; in any event he 

 adopted the more modern spelling, rufus- 



An examination of Gueldenstaedt's article " Chaus Animal Feli Affine De- 

 scriptio" in the twentieth volume of the journal referred to, shows that he 

 based his new Lynx solely on the figure and description of the " Bay Cat," 

 species number 136 of Pennants' Synopsis of Quadrupeds. Pennants' refer- 

 ences to this animal point unmistakably to the wild cat of " New York " as 

 the type of Gueldenstaedt's Felis ruffa. That the latter intended to use the 

 spelling ruffa instead of rufa can hardly be questioned, as the word is so spelt 

 six times in his paper. An examination of older Latin lexicons shows that 

 this construction of the word is perfectly admissible. 



The names of our North American Lynxes of the ruffus type may be listed 

 as follows : 



1. Lynx ruffus (Gueldenstaedt). Eastern Bay Lynx. 



2. Lynx ruffus floridanus (Rafinesque). Florida Bay Lynx. 



3. Lynx ruffus texensis (J. A. Allen). Texas Bay Lynx. 



4. Lynx rilffus baileyi (Merriam). Great Basin Bay Lynx. ► 



5. Lynx ruffus fascialus (Rafinesque). Pacific Bay Lynx. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



37. Sorex personatus Geoff. St. Hil. Masked Shrew. 

 A specimen of what I suppose to be this shrew was taken at Del- 

 aware Gap. 



38. Sorex fumeus Miller. Smoky Shrew. 



One was taken near Culver's Gap, another near Greenwood Lake. 

 True Sorex is apparently a great rarity in northern New Jersey. 



39. Vespertilio lucifugus LeC. Little Brown Bat. 



One specimen was taken at Delaware Gap and several seen at 

 other stations. It is the commonest species in these regions. 



40. Adelonycteris fusca (Pal.de Beauv.). Greater Brown Bat. 



An abundant species. 



41. Atalapha borealis (Mull.). Red Bat. 

 Several were noted. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



OBSERVATIONS ON TARSIUS FUSCUS. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia possesses an 

 adult female of Tarsius fuscus which through the courtesy of the 

 curators I have recently dissected. The specimen was purchased of 

 Mr. H. A. Ward of Kochester, and is without locality. I propose 

 to describe the superficies, auricle, rugae, bones and muscles, and 

 compare them especially with the account of the corresponding parts 

 in the allied species Tarsius tarsius, as given in Burmeister's mon- 

 ograph. 1 This memoir, elaborately detailed and beautifully illus- 

 trated by the author, stands in such high repute that anatomists 

 have accepted the account of the genus as final. Mivart and Muir 

 in their descriptions of the structure of the Lemuroidea 2 omit Tar- 

 sius. Nevertheless, I have been induced to make this record because 

 of the specific independence of the Academy's specimen, as well as 

 for the reason that variations in structure should be made the sub- 

 ject of special scrutiny. Apart from these considerations, I believe 

 the warmest admirer of the memoir will admit that the teeth are 

 imperfectly described, and the references to the mechanism of the 

 limbs inadequate. When a muscle is not described in this essay, 

 it will be understood that Burmeister's account has been found to 

 agree in all respects with my own. 



The abdomen had been opened, the symphysis pubis divided and 

 the organs of generation, as well as the greater part of the intestines, 

 removed before I received the specimen. 



THE SUPERFICIES. 



The fur generally is long and silky. The tips on the back and 

 sides are dark brown, on the crown and sides of the neck gray, with 

 a disposition to become lighter in hue toward the rump. The hair 

 of the head has a subtip of obscure chestnut, elsewhere with the ex- 

 ceptions named, the basal two-thirds are dark plumbeous. On the 

 under surface of the trunk the fur is light at the tips, while on the 

 inner side of the thigh it is almost white. The inner parts of the 



1 Beitrilge znr niiheren Kenntniss der Gattung Tarsius, von Hermann Bur- 

 meister. Berlin, 1846, 4°, pp. 140, pis. vii. 

 s Zool. Trans., VII, 1866. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



forearm, the leg and the tarsus as far as the midtarsal line, are 

 covered with sparse short unicolored light gray hair ; the face is 

 well covered with short hair, the snout alone being naked. The tail 

 at the basal inch is marked by the same character of hair as the 

 rump. The proportion of plumbeous hair at the base is, however, 

 less. The remaining part of the tail is hairless, except at the term- 

 inal three inches where a conspicuous pencillated arrangement of 

 obscure black hair is seen. The flexor surfaces of contact of the 

 thigh and leg are naked, as also are the palms and soles. 



REMARKS ON THE SPECIES OF TARSIUS. 



Burmeister gives an elaborate synonymy of T. spectrum, as de- 

 nominated by him — the T. tarsius of this essay — and refers to* and 

 figures a second species which he names T. fischeri. I find the 

 Academy's specimen answers to the description of the species last 

 named. But Burmeister had previously described this form under 

 the names of T. fuscus. Geoffrey subsequently named it T. fusco- 

 manus. Forbes 3 decides without criticism that the names T. fusco- 

 manus and T. fischeri are synonyms of T. fuscus. In the same 

 volume T. spectrum is changed to T. tarsius. I have accepted this 

 plan of naming the two species, and thus the Academy's specimen be- 

 comes T. fuscus. Mr. Lyddeker informs me by post, that while he 

 uses the name T. fusco-manus in his work on Geographical History 

 of the Mammalia, he would now accept T. fuscus. A. B. Meyer* 

 employs T. fusco-manus, though changing it to T. fuscus in a later 

 publication, which unfortunately is not to be found in the libraries 

 of this country. The author last named, described in the above 

 series a new species under the name T. philippensis, character- 

 ized by possessing naked tarsi and tail. Professor Meyer writes 

 that he has since described a fourth species under the name T. 

 sangirensis, an account of which has not come to hand. The genus, 

 therefore, now contains four accredited species, T. tarsius, T. fuscus, 

 T. philippensis and T. sangirensis. 



In discussing the synonymy of T. spectrum, Burmeister states that 

 T. daubentonii is " blackish and ash-gray " in color ; T. bancamis 5 

 recalls in its dark colored fur the foregoing. T. spectrum is " yellow 



3 Allen's N. H. Libr., Primates, 1894,1, p. 21. 



4 Abhand. u Berichte des Kongl. Zool. u Anthropolog.-Ethn. Museums zu 

 Dresden, 1894, I. 



5 1 have carefully studied the account of Tarsus bancanus Horsfield (Nat. 

 Hist. Java). It has minute lateral incisors and no upper central incisors. 

 The premolars and molars together number but five ; it is probable that the 

 first premolar is absent. The tarsus is less elongated, the ears are smaller and 

 the tail less pencillated than in T. fuscus. The form is most likely immature. 




36 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



brown-gray " with a light dash of " red-brown " on the forehead, the 

 back and upper side of the thigh ; the sides of the head and neck 

 are dark brown, the breast whiter. The tip-of the tail is yellow and 

 bristle-like. T. fischeri (the T. fuseus of this paper) is of a reddish 

 yellow-gray, with brown-gray side of head and neck, a clear yellow- 

 white spot on the base of the ear, and a red-brown tip to the tail. 

 Two conclusions can be drawn from these excerpts: one that Bur- 

 meister's account of the specific distinctions is not satisfactory, and 

 that the Academy's specimen is remote from T. tarsias. It is in the 

 broadest possible way contrasted with the coloration of the figure in 

 Burmeister's memoir. Here the fur of the body and the limbs is of 

 a uniform yellow-gray, the head being somewhat darker, the tip is 

 scarcely more densely furred than the rest of the tail and not differ- 

 ently colored. 



THE AURICLE. 



Fig. 1. The auri- 

 cle of Tarsius tarsius 

 after Burmeister. 



The auricle is more rounded than in T. tarsius. 

 A distinct internal basal lobe is present, which, 

 however, is folded in against the auricle. The 

 outer border ends abruptly at the middle of the 

 large, rounded external basal lobe, which is ab- 

 sent in the species just named. The antitragus 

 is convex and projects but to a less degree than 

 the foregoing, and is separated therefrom by a deep 

 notch (indsura auris). The parts are carried 

 well down toward the neck, thus forming a true 

 conch. It is marked within, as in T. tarsius, by 

 four transverse ridges, the lowest of which (antitragus) forms a con- 

 spicuous lobe. The above comparison is based upon the figure in 

 Burmeister's memoir and the original of the Academy's specimen. 



Burmeister states that the ear on the whole 

 resembles in part that of bats and of rodents. 

 Concerning the first named it certainly bears 

 a comparison with the Pteropodidse, and (in less 

 degree) the Rhinolophidoe in the absence of the 

 conspicuous fold at the border of the external 

 auditory meatus held by the writer to be a 

 rudiment of the tragus. In no bat, however, is 

 the large transverse fold (antitragus) known. 



Fig. 2. The auri 

 cle of Tarsius fuseus 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



THE HANDS AND FEET. 



The nails of both hands and feet, with the exception of those of 

 the second and third toes, are almost entirely concealed by epi- 

 dermis. They are, indeed, mere scales, which apparently represent 

 the lowest possible phase of development. Those of the feet are 

 as in the hands, excepting those of the second and third toes. 

 The well-known prorect claws have been aptly compared to thorns 

 on a rose bush. They stand at an acute angle to the sharply flexed 

 second phalanges and permit the broad toe-tips to project to a 

 greater extent than in other toes. I venture in this connection to 

 make a suggestion as to the use of these claws. They are fur 

 dressers and parasite searchers for the head and shoulders. It is a 

 matter of common observation that ecto-parasites are prone to fix 

 themselves about the face and ears. A palmate-finger-tipped animal 

 would be placed at a disadvantage at the toilet. It is probable 

 that when the claws are in use the fourth and fifth fingers are 

 flexed. 



The palmar callosities are marginal to the thenar and hypothenar 

 eminences. The basal pads in the digits are large — one is proper to 

 the fourth digit. Burmeister simply states concerning the two basi- 

 digital pads that they lie at the base of the middle and following 

 finger. 



In the foot the hallucal and hypothenar pads are strictly margi- 

 nal. They join at the wrist. A metatarso-phalangeal pad lies axial 

 to the third digit. A large pad lies axial to the phalanges of the 

 hallux. It projects into the first inter-digital space and is well dis- 

 played when this space is defined from the dorsum. All three pads 

 are in effect callosities to the metatarsal and the metatarso-phalangeal 

 joints except the first, which overlies in part the powerful Adductor 

 pollicis. 



The pad of the first toe is opposed to that of the fifth toe. The 

 manner of insertion of the Adductor pollicis would naturally have a 

 tendency to pull the entire digit to the ulnar border while flexing 

 the phalanges. The location of the tendon is seen without dissection. 

 The hallucal pad overlying this muscle in part is an interesting 

 structure. This portion of the manus and pes in mammals generally? 

 so far as I know, is free from callosities. But in T. fuscus the pad 

 is the largest in the foot and projects toward the sole so as to sug- 

 gest an important function in grasping. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1897. 



Burmeister does not acknowledge the marginal pads to be present, 

 but describes three unequal elliptical pads which answer in part to 

 the free basal segment ; the middle corresponds to " den beiden ersten 

 Zehen " (second and third digits), the third, the smallest but longest 

 on the outer (fibular) border of the " zwei letzten Zehen " (fourth 

 and fifth digits). Thus no statement is made of the extent to which 

 the pollical pad overlies the first inter-digital space, as is seen in the 

 Academy's specimen, and of the third pad lying to the outer side of 

 the last two toes. In the Academy's specimen it is distinctly inter- 

 digital. 



THE SKULL. 



The skull of T. fuscus differs from that of T. tarsius in the tym- 

 panic and petrous portions of the temporal bone being greatly in- 

 flated, in the orbital border of the malar bone being notched in- 

 stead of perforated, and the orbital plate of the frontal bone being 

 smooth instead of furnished with a tuberosity over the inner border 

 of the optic foramen. A skull of T. tarsius in the possession of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is older than that of 

 T. fuscus, yet the position of the para-conules and the meta-conules 

 is cleanly defined. . 



The infra-orbital canal is minute; the post-glenoid foramen is 

 conspicuous. The union of the external pterygoid plate with the 

 petrous portion of the temporal bone is met with in some short faced 

 types in Chiroptera. The interesting comment is made that in those 

 human crania in which the external pterygoid plate unites with the 

 spinous process, which in its turn joins the squama and lies directly 

 against the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the essential 

 features of Tarsius are repeated. 



THE TEETH. 



The Lower Teeth. — I have lately concluded that anatomical de- 

 scriptions should be framed when practicable on the basis of etiology. 

 Assuming that the shapes of the upper teeth are results of dynamic 

 forces acting through and by means of the lower teeth, the last 

 named teeth should be described first. The incisors are conical, aci- 

 cular, and do not touch in the median line ; the canines are larger 

 than the incisors and slightly inclined forward. The premolars are 

 contiguous and gradually increase in size from the first to the third. 

 In the molar series the small paraconid and larger protoconid are 

 opposed and merge so as to form a trenchant transverse ridge on the 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



39 



crown. The molars increase in size from the first to the third, the 

 last named alone having a marked posterior commissural cusp, 



though a faint rudiment of it 

 second. 



can be discerned in the first and 



Fig. 3. The Lower Teeth of Tar- 

 sius fuscus. 



The anterior eminence is seen in 

 all, though it is least conspicuous in 

 the first tooth. The large metaconid 

 is separated from the small hypo- 

 conid by a deep valley. The sharp 

 posterior commissure is continuous with the apex of the hypoconid. 

 In the first and second molars the commissure is straight and trans- 

 verse, but in the third tooth it is prolonged backward ; beyond it, 

 the swollen contour of the tooth projects and yields the impression 

 of being a supplemental cusp ; so that the series when viewed from 

 buccal aspect gives to the first and second molars two denticles, 

 while for the third molar there are three. A cingule is sharply de- 

 fined at the basis of the paraconid and metaconid. All the lower 

 teeth have cingula. In the incisors, canines and premolars they 

 are entire or nearly so ; in the molars they are buccal only. 



The Upper Teeth. — The conical central incisors are separated 

 from one another at their apical thirds. They are sharply worn on 

 the posterior surfaces and faintly 

 grooved on the outer. The lat- 

 eral is contiguous to the central, 

 but separated from the canine by 

 a narrow interval. The tooth is 

 minute, higher than the central, 

 its tip being on the level of the 

 cinsrulurn of the tooth last named. The canine is smaller than the 

 central incisor. The premolars abruptly increase in size from before 

 backward ; the first two are ridged on palatal surface like the ca- 

 nine ; the third alone presents on palatal surface a broad basal cusp. 

 The molars are trituberculate with acicular cusps. Slight indica- 

 tions exist of the beginnings of cusps (conules) on the commissures 

 uniting the protocone with the paracone and metacone. The ciugu- 

 lum is not complete in any of the molars, though nearly so in the 

 first and third. In the second no trace of it exists on the palatal 

 aspect of the second molar, the figure represents the line with too 

 much emphasis. 



Fig. 4. The Upper Teeth of Tardus 

 fuscus. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The protoconids andparaconids are received in interdental spaces 

 of the upper jaw. The hypoconids occupy the valleys of the upper 

 molars. The valleys of the lower molars embrace the protocones. 

 The interdental spaces of the lower jaw are occupied by the meta- 

 cones. The minute cusps on the ridges connecting the paracone and 

 mesocone with the protocone are met with also in Lemur. The dis- 

 position is an ancient one, since it is seen in Chriacus of the Puerco 

 beds. In Anaptomorphus and Pelyeodus it is less marked, if indeed 

 indubitably present. Theo. N. Gill 6 and Max Schlosser 7 place Tar- 

 sius in a group distinct from the Lemuroidea, but closely related 

 thereto. C. E. Hubrecht 8 removes the form absolutely from prox- 

 imity to the lemurs, and gives it a place in the phyllum of the 

 monkeys and men. C. Earle 9 considers Tarsius to be an annectant 

 type between the apes and lemurs. 



The wear is first on the ridges between the protoconids and para- 

 conids and the anterior of the two ridges of the molars, and between 

 the hypoconid and the posterior of the two ridges. 10 



THE RUG^E. 



The palatal ruga? are nine in number. The first five lie between 

 the premolar and canine teeth ; they answer to the abruptly nar- 

 rowed part of the hard palate, and while composed of right and 

 left parts are irregular and crowded. The remaining four are regu- 

 lar and undivided. Directly back of the incisors is a median part 

 with two minute depressions. 



THE BRAIN. 



The cerebrum is without sulcus on the spheno-temporal lobe. The 

 olfactory lobe is much larger in Burmeister's figure than in the 

 Academy's specimen. The flocculus is large and is received in a 

 deep recess on the temporal bone. Burmeister states that the floc- 

 culus is present in T. tarsius, as we would expect ; but according to 

 his figure it must have had an absolutely different form from that 

 seen in T.fuscus. 



6 Arrang. Fam. Mam., Smith. Inst. 1872, 54. 



7 Beitragzur Paliiontolog. Osterreich-Ungarn, 1888, 54. 



8 Hubrecht's position is elaborately given in Gegenbaur's Festschrift 1896, 

 163. The teeth are compared and figured but not described. The conules of 

 the upper molars are not defined and thus one of the characters distinguish- 

 ing Tarsius from Anaptomorphus is not given. 



9 Science, 1897, 60. 



10 The superior upper incisor, lateral incisor and premolar in a specimen in 

 the American Museum of Natural History are exactly as in that of the Acad- 

 emy. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW. 



Unlike other forms of temporal muscle, the superficial and poste- 

 rior fascicle overlies to a slight extent only the anterior and deeper 

 part, but in the main arises separately from the skull. It can be raised 

 easily by the director just above the auditory meatus and separated 

 from the anterior fascicle by a little artificial dissection. 



The masseter muscle arises from the inferior orbital margin. The 

 anterior surface as it overlies the lower jaw reaches a line answering 

 to that of the third molar, almost as far as the anterior edge of the 

 line of origin of the muscle. But its insertion is strictly confined to 

 the angle of the jaw; thus a probe can be passed between the ante- 

 rior third of the muscle and the lower jaw. 



The digastric muscle is without tendinous intersection, and is in- 

 serted almost the entire length of the lower jaw. 



THE MUSCLE OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 



The muscles which are attached to the occiput and cervical ver- 

 tebras on the one part and the shoulder girdle and the side of the 

 chest, humerus and bones of the forearm on the other, constitute a 

 natural system, though they are variously distributed in the gener- 

 ally accepted myologic scheme. 



I place in this system the following muscles, the grouping by 



brackets indicating the association through annectant fascicles : 



f Sterno-cleido-mastoideus. 

 ( Trapezius. 



j Splenius. 



( Scalenus anticus. 



f Transversalis colli. 

 -< Pectoralis major. 

 (^Serratus magnus. 



f Deltoideus. 



-< Pectoralis major. 



(_ Brachialis anticus. 



Rhomboideus. 



Levator anguli scapulas. 

 Latissimus dorsi. 



The Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus is a sheet whose fold 11 lies at the 

 median border. The clavicular and sternal origins are continuous, 



11 For an opinion entertained respecting muscles which are composed on the 

 plan of a folded sheet, see a paper by the author on the Muscles of the Limbs 

 of the Kaccoon (Procyon lotor), Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia, May, 1882. 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



and are concealed by the upper margin of the Pectoralis major. The 

 clavicular sheet makes up the bulk of the muscle and constitutes 

 the superficial fascicle. The sternal sheet is thicker than the fore- 

 going and constitutes the deep fascicle. The Splenitis lies in part 

 between the two fascicles. The extent of the insertion of the mus- 

 cles, namely, along the entire length of the occipital ridge (linea 

 semicircularis ossis occipitis of Burmeister) is noteworthy. The 

 Trapezius sends a slip to the posterior border of the foregoing sheet 

 at a point answering nearly to the level of the axis. Burmeister 

 gives two distinct origins with a triangular interval between them. 

 No mention is made of the clavicular and sternal fascicles being 

 united at the median border of the muscle. 



The Trapezius is without a capitate slip. The upper fascicle, con- 

 fined to the cervical region, is small and inconspicuous. The mid- 

 dle fascicle is continuous with the foregoing and ends abruptly 

 about on the line of the inferior end of the vertebral border. 



The Splenius is a broad simple sheet. It sends a small fleshy slip 

 to a superior angle of the scapula and a broad tendinous slip to the 

 Scalenus anticus. 



The Transversalis colli can be traced to the junction of the super- 

 ficial and deeper parts. The deep fascicle merges with the above 

 near the insertion ; both fascicles are beautifully delineated in Bur- 

 meister's plate. The terms in which the Pedoralis major are defined 

 present a scheme as simple as any found elsewhere in the mammals. 

 It is of interest, therefore, to find two parts, a superficial and a deep 

 part present, and also to note that the muscle can not be separated 

 absolutely from the Transversalis colli and the Deltoideus without 

 artificial dissection. 



The Pectoralis major is small and composed of two fascicles. The 

 sheet is not folded. The superficial fascicle consists of an upper and 

 lower congeries of fibres, which are distinguished by their trend 

 rather than by relation. The fibres of insertion are continuous in- 

 ferioriy with the Deltoideus. 



The Transversalis collis is traceable to the under surface of the 

 Pectoralis major. This is in harmony with the plan seen in Felis 

 The Serratus magnus is directly continuous with the Transversalis 

 colli, and demonstrates in a satisfactory manner that these two mus- 

 cles form parts of the same sheet. 



The Deltoideus acts at the insertion of the outer (acromial) fasci- 

 cle as a muscle of union between the Pectoralis major and the Brack- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



ialis anticus. Accepting this union as valid, the cephalo-humeral 

 system ends by the insertion of the Brachialis anticus upon the ulna. 



The Brachialis anticus is a large, powerful muscle ; it arises by 

 two heads, one in continuity with the Deltoideus at the pectoral 

 ridge, and the other (the larger) from the outer surface of the shaft 

 just below the origin of the outer head of the Triceps. It has a 

 broad tendinous insertion on the ulna. It is more important appar- 

 ently than the Biceps, and unlike the same muscle elsewhere in the 

 mammalia it is not associated with the Triceps. 



The Rhomboideus is small without capitate slip. An important 

 difference is here noted in Burmeister's description. The Rhomboi- 

 deus is figured with an accession about the position of Rhomboideus 

 major, and a large muscle resting on the Splenius named Levator 

 posticus scapulm which is the same as the capitate fascicle of later 

 writers. The Academy's specimen shows no muscle intervening be- 

 tween the Sterno-cleido-mastoideus and the Splenius. 



The Levator anguli scapu lot arises from the transverse processes of 

 the fifth to the seventh cervical vertebra?, and is inserted on the 

 superior angle of the scapula. 



A muscle arises from the front of the atlas in association with the 

 Longus colli, and is inserted upon the acromion in connection with 

 the Trapezius. This is the Levator anticus scapuloz of Burmeister's 

 figures, but is not described. 



The Latissimus dorsi is without axillary arches and arises entirely 

 from the dorsal aponeurosis, where the muscle is 23 mm. wide. This 

 is also the case in Burmeister's specimen. The slip to the olecranon 

 is in close union with the connective tissue over the median nerve 

 and brachial artery, and the impression is received that the slip pro- 

 tects these structures from the effects of friction and pressure. 



The other muscles not embraced in the preceding group are the 

 following : 



The Omo-hyoideus is broad, conspicuous and without intersection. 



The Biceps flexor is relatively a weak muscle. The association 

 with the Coraco-brachialis conforms to the primate type. 



The Triceps muscle is fully described by Burmeister who, how- 

 ever, includes it in the slip to the olecranon from the Latissimus 

 dorsi. The third head (Anconeus tsrtius) arises from the supra-con- 

 dyloid ridge in part. The three heads do not form a single 

 tendon of insertion. The first two heads are almost separate and 

 measurably distinct from the third. The Anconeus constitutes a 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



thick mass of minute fibres occupying the interval between the 

 humerus at the epicondyle and the olecranon. 



The Supinator long us is inserted on the dorsal aspect of the trape- 

 zium and not on the distal part of the radius, though it is held down 

 firmly to that bone. This result has been obtained after a careful 

 dissection. According to Burmeister the tendon runs along the 

 edge of the radius and turns toward the carpus — before reaching 

 this region, however, it is attached to the outer and lower end of the 

 radius, being somewhat broader as it does so. It passes under the 

 ligamentum carpi dorsalis. 



In his account of the Supinator brevis Burmeister does not men- 

 tion the ossicle in the tendon of origin, which was present in the 

 Academy's specimen. 



The Palmaris longus is in closer relation to the Flexor carpi 

 ulnaris than is the muscle first named to the Flexor sublimis digi- 

 torum. 



The Flexor sublimis digitorum and Flexor profundus digitorum are 

 distinct with the exception of a delicate tendon which unites the 

 muscles as they cross the wrist. 



The Flexor profundus digitorum consists of two divisions ; one for 

 the first and second digits is the main mass and arises from the 

 radius, the other passes to the remaining digits. Each division is 

 made up of two heads. The above account is distinct from the one 

 elaborately stated by Burmeister, who gives three heads for the 

 muscle, the first as in this essay, the second two heads and an ulnar 

 spindle-shaped fascicle. It is at the junction of the last named part 

 with the others at the wrist that the conjugate tendon is fixed. 



The Flexor longus pollicis arises by two heads, one from the epi- 

 trochlea and the other, a long one, from the proximal one-half of 

 the shaft of the radius. It sends a delicate slip to the Flexor pro- 

 fundus digitorum at the wrist and another to the Flexor sublimis 

 digitorum at the metacarpophalangeal joints. 



The Extensor carpi radialis brevior arises in common with the 

 Extensor communis digitorum and quite distinct from the Extensor 

 carpi radialis longior, and, therefore, trends from the epicondyle it- 

 self. 



The Extensor carpi radialis longior is in common origin with the 

 Supinator longus and, therefore, trends from the bold crest over the 

 epicondyle. The carpal extensors are not related to each other, but 

 to the adjacent muscles which lie in separate physiological group- 

 ing. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



The radial carpal extensors are inserted upon the radial side of 

 the base of their respective metacarpal bones. These facts are sig- 

 nificant since they point to flexion of hand or forearm, while the 

 latter is semi prone, which is the position proved by the study of 

 joints to be characteristic. 



The Extensor carpi radialis longior goes with the Supinator longus 

 since the two are united, and the Extensor carpi radialis brevoir goes 

 with the Extensor communis digitorum, but the Extensor carpi 

 ulnaris does not go with the Extensor minimi digiti in the sense that 

 the two are united. 



The Extensor communis digitorum. — This muscle is the more super- 

 ficial of the two extensors. It does not supply the first finger. It 

 is composed of two slips which separate at the proximal third of 

 the forearm and are far apart at the wrist ; the inner (radial) passes 

 to the second, third, fourth and fifth fingers, and the outer (ulnar) 

 to the fourth and fifth. Thus the fourth and fifth fingers are doubly 

 supplied. Burmeister separates the last named divisions Under the 

 name of the Extensor digiti quarti et quinti, but the remaining part 

 is not the Extensor digiti indicis et medii unless we accept this fasci- 

 cle as having a wider range of insertion than is normal to T. tar- 

 sius. 



Assuming that all the extensors (excepting those of the first fin- 

 ger) described by Burmeister are embraced in the above account, a 

 large muscle in the Academy's specimen remains undescribed. This 

 muscle which is analogous to the Flexor profundus digitorum is 

 much smaller than the Extensor communis. It arises from both 

 bones of the forearm but not from the humerus, and is inserted into 

 all five fingers. The tendon to the first finger is given off high up, 

 but unites with an aponeurotic layer which holds together the ten- 

 dons to the second, third and fourth fingers. The tendon to the fifth 

 finger is next longest to the first and is without aponeurosis. 



The Extensor communis digitorum sends a slip high up from the 

 belly ; it passes through a separate sheath at the wrist (at the head 

 of ulna) and goes to the fourth and the fifth digits. This probably 

 is the Extensor minimi digiti. The main muscle is distributed to all 

 the digits. 



The Extensor minimi digiti arises entirely from the ulna and sup- 

 plies all the digits. Hence the fifth digit receives three extensor 

 tendons. 



The Extensor pollicis longus. — This muscle is normal to T. tarsius. 

 It is the same as the Abductor pollicis longus of Burmeister. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The Extensor pollicis longus of Burmeister is not present in T. 

 fuscus. It may be found in the pollical slip of the deep extensor as 

 named in the foregoing paragraph. 



The Flexor pollicis brevis and the Abductor pollicis brevis form 

 one muscle. Burmeister separates them. 



The Abductor pollicis arises from the fibrous tissue deep in the 

 palm over the Palmar interossei. It has no bony origin whatever. 

 Burmeister assigns an origin from the third metacarpal bone. His 

 figure gives the impression of an origin from the fourth metacarpal. 



The Opponens pollicis is absent. Burmeister describes and fig- 

 ures this muscle. The Abductor indicis is a small muscle ; it is de- 

 scribed by Burmeister. 



The Abductor minimi digiti embracing the Flexor brevis minimi 

 digiti are as in Burmeister's description. The muscles are imperfectly 

 differentiated. 



The Palmar interossei. — The muscles occupy the opposed sides of 

 the second and third digits, and of the third and fourth digits as 

 given by Burmeister. The pair of muscles for the third and fourth 

 fingers form a fleshy union at the distal end of the first phalanx and 

 the proximal end of the second. Traction flexes the finger power- 

 fully. The muscle to the fifth finger does not flex the finger but 

 extends and abducts it. For the fourth and fifth fingers the arrange- 

 ment is as follows : A muscle arises from unciform bone and lies on 

 the radial side of the distal end of the fifth metacarpal bone. (1). 

 A fleshy muscle extended forward to the distal end of the first pha- 

 lanx of the fifth finger. (2). From the samehypothenar mass with 

 the foregoing muscles is of a spindle shape, which lies at the ulnar 

 side of the fourth finger ; it becomes a fine thread at the second pha- 

 lanx into which it is inserted. Of this group Burmeister briefly 

 says, "the third pair is inserted on the opposed sides of the fourth 

 and fifth fingers." 



The Dorsal interossei are four in number and arranged as follows : 

 Second and third fingers one to each side of the first and second 

 phalanges ; one to the radial side of the fourth digit. All the fore- 

 going have spindle-shaped bellies, which arise from the proximal ends 

 of the respective metacarpal bones. A somewhat distinct muscle is 

 pyramidal and arises from nearly the entire length of the fifth met- 

 acarpal bone as well as the palmar aspect of the fourth and fifth 

 metacarpal bones. The palmar association of the dorsal muscle is 

 marked and confirms Ruge's thesis that these muscles are derivative 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



47 



from a palmar group. Burmeister gives the numeration as above, 

 but the muscles are too closely united to agree with T.fuscus, while 

 the difference in the ulnar muscle of the fourth finger is not given. 



In reviewing the muscles of the hand, both intrinsic and extrinsic, 

 one is struck with the fact that the ulnar division of the hand is 

 more highly endowed than the radial. The extensors of the fingers 

 are connected with the first interphalangeal joints by broader and 

 more powerful bands on the ulnar than on the radial sides. The 

 Palmar interossei are much larger and more powerful on the ulnar 

 than on the radial sides of the third and fourth fingers. The Dor- 

 sal interosseous muscle for the ulnar side of the fourth finger is much 

 broader and thicker than its fellows. 



THE MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 



The Biceps femoris arises in common with the Semitendinosus from 

 the ischial tuberosity. It is with scarcely any disposition to extend 

 down on leg, either in tendon or aponeurosis. The entire process 

 stops at the proximal fourth of the leg. One sheet of aponeurosis 

 passes to the crest of the tibia, and to the intermuscular septum be- 

 tween the Gastrocnemius and the Peroneus long us. The relations of 



the muscles are quite as in other 

 mammals. The Semimembranosus is 

 without transverse inscription. The 

 Semitendinosus possesses one, or at 

 least the belly is digastric. The 

 muscle last named with the Gracilis 

 and Sartorius form one tripartite 

 muscle. 



The extremely weak Biceps, which 

 secures no independent origin, forces 

 one to the conclusion that it is related 

 to the ham strings only, and not to 

 the Gluteus maximus whose relations 

 to the femoral shaft are secured 

 through another associate, namely, 

 the sheet I call the "Annectant Mass." 

 Burmeister's account of the Biceps is 

 quite different from the foregoing. 

 The muscle arises from the ischial tuberosity and receives a few 

 fibres only from the Semitendinosus. The difference is more 



Fig. 5. The hamstring muscles 

 of T. fuscus : a, gracilis ; b, sar- 

 torius ; c, semimembranosus ; d, 

 semitendinosus ; e, biceps. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



apparent than real. It might with exactitude be said that both 

 Biceps and Semitendinosus have a common ischial stem. Certainly 

 it cannot be said, as Burmeister asserts, that the Biceps is the most 

 powerful of the bam strings. 



The " Annectant Mass " between the Gluteus maximus and the 

 Semimembranosus arises from the transverse processes of the caudal 

 vertebrae just below the sacrum by a line 7 mm. in breadth, as well 

 as from the tuberosity of the ischium above the origin of the ham 

 strings. It is inserted by fleshy fibres on the shaft of the femur for 

 a little over one-half of its length. At the caudal origin it is in 

 contact with the Gluteus maximus at its ischial origin with the ham 

 strings and at its insertion with the Adductor magnus, if, indeed, it 

 may not be said to merge with this muscle. It cannot be freed from 

 fascia without artificial dissection, being continuous with the fasci- 

 culation anteriorly and with the firm connective tissue layer over 

 the Semimembranosus posteriorly. 



Burmeister names this muscle the Pyriformis. The mutilation of 

 the Academy's specimen in the region of the pelvis prevented a 

 satisfactory study being made of the muscles arising from the sac- 

 rum and inserted on the bones of the inferior extremity. This fact 

 does not prevent the observer from deciding for himself the identity 

 of the muscle here described. The well known disposition of the 

 Semimembranosus to secure an origin from the vertebral column 

 makes it probable that a muscle in the same general region which 

 arises from the vertebral column to be inserted upon the femur 

 might be allied to this ham string. I propose to separate it from the 

 Pyriformis and place it in a position annectant between the Gluteus 

 maximus and the Semimembranosus. 



The Gemelli and Obturator internus answer to Burmeister's de- 

 scriptions. 



The Pectus femoris is small and weak and is but one-sixth as 

 wide as the main mass of the Quadriceps extensor. The origin of 

 the Rectus is tendinous with an aponeurotic extension which proceeds 

 upward over the outer surface of the Iliacus. The Vastus externus 

 is the largest part of the muscle and is almost divided into an inner 

 and outer part. The inner part receives two important accessions 

 from fascicles having extensive fleshy origins from the femur, but 

 the main body of the enormous Vastus externus is free from the 

 femur except at the great trochanter and the head of the tibia. The 

 Vastus internus resembles the Vastus externus, but receives no ac- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



cessions. The mass arising from the lower half of the front of the 

 femur is normal. 



The leg can be extended on the thigh scarcely to a right angle. 

 Yet the great bulk of the Quadriceps is requited to do this much. 



The patella is small (4 mm. -(- 2b mm.) while the patellar groove 

 on the femur is deep and long. This notch is much deeper on the 

 outer than the inner side. The patella scarcely occupies the groove 

 but lies well toward the intercondyloid notch. 



The Plantaris passes almost entirely to the first toe, a fibrous band 

 passing to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe and 

 another joining the Transversalis pedis superficialis. 



The Extensor longus digitorum pedis passes to the outer side of 

 the tibia as the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus pollicis pass to 

 the inner side. It lies beneath the annular ligament and directly 

 in front of the ankle joint, though above the calcaneum it passes 

 under a special ligament which holds it close to the bone last named. 

 At the mid-tarsal region it again passes beneath a special ligament 

 and forms two aponeurotic expansions, the inner supplying the sec- 

 ond, third and fourth, and the outer the third, fourth and fifth dig- 

 its. Tracing these tendons back to their origin it is found that the 

 outer division retains the largest fleshy fascicle. 



The Peroneus longus (Peroneus primus of Burmeister). — This 

 muscle exerts no action on the entire foot except in its effect on the 

 first metatarsal bone. Traction pulls the bone forcibly inward by a 

 bold free motion. It has no effect on the cuboid bone. 



The Flexor communis digitorum is a large, powerful muscle. It 

 arises from the tibia by fleshy fibres half way down the posterior 

 surface of the shaft. It unites with the Flexor longus pollicis pedis 

 to form one tendon at the mid-tarsal region. At this point a strong 

 tenaculum (which serves as a check to extreme contraction) attaches 

 itself to the under surface of the common tendon and holds it to the 

 calcaneum. I venture to call the Lumb'ricales the para-fascicles. 

 The first toe has none ; the second one ; the third three ; the fourth 

 two ; and the fifth toes one para-fascicle. 



The Tibialis posticus is very small ; it arises high up in the leg and 

 is chiefly derived from the fibula and the interosseous membrane. 

 The slender thread-like tendon is inserted upon the scaphoid bone. 



The Abductor externus minimi digiti is the same as described by 

 Burmeister. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The Abductor interims minimi cligiti of Burmeister could not be 

 traced further than the proximal end of the metatarsal bone, while 

 Burmeister states that it extends along the border of the metatarsus 

 together with the sheath of the Flexor long us to be inserted upon 

 the first phalanx. 



The Abductor hallucis arises from the distal end of the scaphoid 

 bone and is inserted on the fibular side of the first phalanx. The 

 Flexor brevis hallucis profundus takes origin from the cuneiform 

 bones as described by Burmeister, but the two heads named by him 

 do not exist nor is there connection with the first metatarsal as he 

 describes. It is inserted on the fibular side of the first phalanx. 



The Abductor minimi digiti and the Interossei interni are as de- 

 scribed by Burmeister. 



The Flexor brevis pollicis brevis is a thick, stout mass arising from 

 the cuneiform bones and inserted upon the fibular side of the base of 

 the first phalanx. Parallel to the foregoing, near the Transversalis 

 pedis and inserted just in advance of it, lies a muscle which corre- 

 sponds in the respects named to the Transversalis pedis profundus of 

 Burmeister. But it arises from the ecto-cuneiform bone and has no 

 connection in origin with the shafts of the metatarsi. Even the 

 Transversalis pedis is without origin from the second or third meta- 

 tarsi, but arises from the base of the second metatarsus and thus re- 

 calls the Abductor pollicis. 



The Abductor pollicis pedis arises from the tibial side of the head 

 of the second metatarsal bone. It is joined by the Transversalis 

 and a slip passes with this muscle to the base of the first phalanx of 

 the great toe, but the main belly is inserted into the second phalanx 

 of the great toe. 



Burmeister's account of the "Abductor /la/ZftciV is quite different 

 from the above. The muscle arises from the cuboid bone, is inti- 

 mately associated with the plantar aponeurosis, passes obliquely 

 across the sole, and is inserted on the under part of the first pha- 

 lanx of the great toe, as well as on the sheath of the tendon of the 

 Flexor long us pollicis. 



Thus the muscles of the toes are arranged sufficiently different 

 from those of T. tardus to suggest a distinct origin. The thumb is 

 drawn more powerfully toward the center of the wrist than toward 

 the fifth toe. In a word it is less opposable than is the case in T. 

 tardus. The fibres which yield the Abductor are not separable 

 from other fascicles which pass from the ecto-cuneiform forward, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



and are inserted as one continuous sheet upon the bases of the sec- 

 ond and third metatarsi. Nothing comparable to these fascicles are 

 described by Burmeister. 



The Abductor pollicis pedis is quite as described by Burmeister. 



Burmeister gives an account of a muscle named by him Abductor 

 hallucis which arises from the plantar fascia and is inserted upon 

 the fibular side of the first phalanx on a level with the foregoing. No 

 such muscle is found in T.fuscus, but a number of tendinous fibres 

 pass in its place from the plantar fascia to the Transversalis pedis- 

 The Flexor brevis digitorum sends a large fascicle to the toe, and it 

 is possible it is this slip which Burmeister has named separately. 



The Abductor digiti minimi extensor and the Abductor digiti min- 

 imi internus are distinct muscles corresponding exactly to Bur- 

 meister's description. 



The Abductor digiti minimi arises by two distinct heads instead 

 of one as described by Burmeister. Both muscles touch the belly 

 of the Palmar interossei instead of permitting an interval to be de- 

 fined between them. 



The Extensor brevis digitorum pedis in addition to its origin from 

 the calcaneum yields a slender tendon from the belly of the Exten- 

 sor longus pollicis high up on the leg. Burmeister does not men- 

 tion this slip nor is it figured by him. The first, second and third 

 digits possess separate extensors which are specializations from the 

 Extensor brevis digitorum of human anatomy. 



The Plantar interossei. — Seven muscles are seen on the plantar as- 

 pect. The first muscle is inserted on the tibial side of the second 

 metatarsal bone ; the second and third muscles on opposed sides of 

 the second and third bones ; the fourth and fifth muscles on opposed 

 sides of the third and fourth bones ; the sixth muscle on the fibular 

 side of the fifth metatarsal bone. 



The Dorsal interossei. — Three muscles are seen on the dorsal as- 

 pect. One on the tibial side of the second metatarsal bone an- 

 swers to the first Plantar interosseous. One on the tibial side of the 

 third metatarsal bone answers to the third Plantar interosseous; 

 one on the tibial side of the fourth metatarsal bone answers to the 

 sixth Plantar interosseous. 



The dorsal muscles are those which at the same time are the most 

 powerful of the plantars. In other words the plantars which are 

 the more powerful occupy in their surfaces of origin the sides of the 

 metatarsal so completely as to be visible from the dorsal aspect of 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



the foot. They uniformly arise more superficially on the plantar 

 surface and in part overlap the others. The more powerful muscles 

 tend to abduct the metatarsi ; the weaker to antagonize these and to 

 adduct the metatarsi. 



Burmeister reverses the proportions of the two sets of muscles. 

 The figure (fig. 11, taf. 5) expressly shows the adducting set and 

 named by him the plantar to be the larger and more superficial. 



NOTES ON THE MECHANISM OF THE LIMBS. 



The superior extremity is small and weak. 12 Flexion of the el- 

 bow is but 10 mm. as measured by the excursus of the head of the 

 ulna. The bones of the forearm do not agree with Burmeister's de- 

 scription, while his figure of the relation of the radius and ulna are 

 again quite different from that in T. fuscus. Instead of a wide inter- 

 osseous space the specimen shows a narrow one, the bones are almost 

 in contact except at the middle third where the interval is but one- 

 half mm. 



The radius moves scarcely at all on the ulna, so that prona- 

 tion and supination are not as marked as would be inferred from 

 the size of the Pronator radii teres and the two supinators. 



The presence of a bold ridge on the outer side of the humerus 

 above the epicondyle answers to the large Supinator longus in alli- 

 ance with the Extensor carpi radialis longior. 



The hand lies at right angles to the forearm by extreme dorsal 

 traction ; the first row of phalanges is semi-flexed, the second row is 

 acutely flexed, while the third row is extended. The thumb is not 

 opposable, but the metacarpal bone is sharply adducted so that the 

 phalanx lies under the index finger. The metacarpo-phalangeal 

 articulation is very loose. 



On p. 49, statements are made to account for the longitudinal grasp 

 of the foot. This position places the Peroneus longus in admirable 

 phase for drawing the tibial margin of the foot in toward the plane 

 of support. The weight of the body bears not only through the 

 astragalus to the astragalo-scaphoid ligament, but the calcaneum is 

 supported on the sling-like Plantaris as well as on the Gastrocnemius 

 and Soleus. 



The amount of strain in the position is indicated by the smooth 

 concave pulley-like surface on the calcaneum, and the insertion of 



12 In a skeleton of Tarsius which I identify as that of T. fuscus in the 

 American Museum of Natural History. New York, the presternum was found 

 to be cartilaginous. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



the muscle last named on the lower edge of the bone. Observation 

 of the specimen when flayed shows a decided antero-posterior curva- 

 ture of the cervical vertebrae. 



The singularly small innominate bone indicates that no correla- 

 tion can be established between it and the rest of the enormous in- 

 ferior extremity. The following are the measurements of the bone : 

 Tuberosity to pubis 15 mm. ; center of acetabulum to vertebrate 

 margin 2i mm.; width and length of sacral facet 3 mm. ; length of 

 ilium 22 mm. The ischial spine is very prominent and shows ex- 

 ceptional power in the Obturator internus and Gemellus superior. 

 While the bone is but 28 mm. long the rest of the limb measures 

 183 mm. 13 The knee joint is remarkable for the great contrast be- 

 tween femoral condyles, the outer being twice as large as the inner. 

 The patellar notch, as already noted on p. 49, is extraordinarily 

 long and deep, being 7 mm. long, while the condyle is but 3 mm. 

 The groove appears to represent on the front of the joint the ob- 

 liquity of the outer tibial tuberosity on the back. 



The fibula joins the shaft of the tibia at the beginning of the dis- 

 tal third. The position of the head is indicated. Burmeister's de- 

 scription corresponds to the above, though from the figures it could 

 be inferred that the shaft of the bone was outlined throughout, i. e., 

 never having been lost in that of the tibia. The excursus of the 

 heel (taken as a measurement of the range of knee joint) is 29 mm. ; 

 that of the mid-tarsal joint (taken as a measurement of the ankle 

 movement) is 7 mm. 



The astragalus is one-third the length of the scaphoid bone. The 

 scaphoid at the astragalus rests in front and over the calcaneum, 

 but at the mid-tarsal joint the scaphoid is on the same plane with 

 that of the calcaneum. The motion between the scaphoid bone and 

 the astragalus recalls that between the radius and the humerus, the 

 position at rest is semipronation, and the excursus is to yet deeper 

 pronation ; there is no supination. 



The general aspect of the plantar surface is like that of the fore- 

 arm in most mammals if the scaphoid and the calcaneum might be 

 compared to the radius and the ulna, while the cuboid and ento- 

 cuneiform bones might be compared with the pisiform bone and 

 trapezium. In Tarsius both the cuboid and the ento-cuneiform 



13 The thigh, tibia and foot are each about 60 mm. long when dissected, but 

 in the undissected limb, owing to the flexing of the finger, the foot is 52 mm. 

 long. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



bones form conspicuous projections into the sole, and thereby define 

 the sides of a depression in which lie the conjoined tendons of the 

 Flexor longns digitorum and the Flexor longus pollicis pedis. 



The ligamentum plantar e longum ol Burmeister is the same as 

 the suspensory ligament. It extends pari passu with the elongation 

 of the scaphoid bone and bears a close resemblance to a tendon of a 

 muscle. It attaches itself to the tibia and the distal end of the sca- 

 phoid bone, some fibres being held to the calcaneum opposite the as- 

 tragalus, others being merged with those forming the posterior liga- 

 ment of the ankle joint. The metatarso-phalangeal articulations are 

 extremely loose and the toes are so disposed as to show tibial deflec- 

 tion, the longer ones overlapping the shorter. The thumb on the 

 other hand shows fibular deflection being drawn toward the palm by 

 powerful muscles. The first row of phalanges is not extended on 

 that of the metatarsus (as the first row of phalanges is extended on 

 that of the metacarpus) but is on the same line. The second to the 

 fifth toes resemble the fingers in motion and position, but the great 

 toe remains extended. 



The weakness of the foot support is doubtless harmonized with the 

 extent of the knee flexion. Hence the muscles of the calf practically 

 disappear in the deep recess between the ham strings. The inclination 

 forward of the trunk is checked by the great mass of the Erector 

 spince muscles, with which the deep groove between the dorsal and 

 broad transverse processes of the thoracic and lumbar vertebra? cor- 

 relate. The tail and its muscular power, especially at its base, may 

 be taken as a balance of weight to that of the trunk, the hip joint 

 being accepted as the fulcrum. When the limb is extended the hind 

 feet yield a support too feeble to hold up the body. When the limb 

 is flexed the line of support passes from the foot to the ischium ; 

 even then the trunk inclines forward. This inclination is checked 

 by the ham strings. The " spring " consists in the extension from 

 extreme flexion. Although extension at the knee is greatly re- 

 stricted, the power necessary to the end is expressed in the enormous 

 Vasti. 



According to De Blainville the respective lengths of the calca- 

 neum and scaphoid bone as seen in Tarsius is repeated in Otolienus. 

 Recalling the fact that these forms are now to be placed in different 

 phylla, we recognize that the elongatiou of the two bones is an 

 adaptive character. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



A reasonably good conception of the mechanism of the foot is 

 secured by placing it longitudinally on the upper surface of a small 

 rounded stem. The pollex holds to the side of the stem, the short 

 second and third digits to the top, and the longer fourth and fifth 

 digits to the outer side. These dispositions show how well adapted the 

 foot is for both support and prehension. The method of progression 

 accepted by the animal is not so well shown. But doubtless the 

 "spring" of the limb enables the foot to quickly let go its hold. 

 The arrangement might be called one for longitudinal perching as 

 contrasted to the transverse perching of birds and the chameleon. 

 If the view here expressed be accepted, the positions in which the 

 foot is drawn by Burmeister and Brehm are erroneous. In Bur- 

 meister's memoir the grasp is that of the human hand, the thumb be- 

 ing on one side of a small bough and all the other digits on the other. 

 In the main figure of Brehm u the foot is transverse to the bough. 

 In the smaller figure it is longitudinal. But the bough is so large 

 in the illustration that it makes but little difference what the posi- 

 tion of the foot may be. Cuvier 15 represents the foot in the position 

 here claimed on anatomical grounds to be correct for small boughs. 

 The inference to be drawn is the following : Tarsius is specially 

 adapted to spring lightly along small boughs and limbs of trees by 

 the longitudinal perch. It may modify the grasp on large, broad 

 su rfaces. 



"Thierleben, I, 274. 

 15 Regne Animal. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



A COLLECTION OF FISHES OBTAINED IN SWATOW, CHINA, BY 

 MISS ADELE M. FIELDE. 



BY CLOUDSLEY RUTTER. 



In the year 1885, Miss Adele M. Fielde, a well-known missionary, 

 then resident in Swatow, China, sent to the University of Indiana, a 

 considerable collection of the fishes of that port. A series of these 

 fishes, still undescribed, was purchased by the Leland Stanford, Jr. 

 University, and placed in my hands for study and identification. 

 These species, 73 in number, are enumerated in the present paper. 

 At the end of the paper, I give a nominal list of the species recorded 

 from Swatow, not contained in this collection. Dr. H. E. Sauvage 1 

 gives a list' of 68 species, only 23 of which were sent by Miss Fielde. 

 Dr. Franz Steindachner describes 2 three new species of gobies 

 not in the present collection. These species are included in the 

 present list on the authority of Sauvage and Steindachner. 



My obligations are due to President Jordan for various aids in 

 this investigation which was placed by him in my hands. 



GALEIDJE. 



Prionace glauca (Linngeus). 



Squalus glaucus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 235, 1758. 

 Carcharias glaucus, Gunther, Cat. Fishes, VIII, 364, 1870. 



One young specimen, 12 inches long. 



Length of snout in front of mouth equals width between eyes and 

 equals distance from eye to second gill-opening. Line connecting 

 inner edge of nostrils less than one-third the distance from mouth 

 to tip of snout. A notch and protuberance on front margin of nos- 

 tril. One-fourth of eye in front mouth. Labial grooves a little 

 shorter than nostril. Hinder margins of pectorals emarginate, the 

 upper angle blunt, reaching past origin of first dorsal. Depressed 

 dorsal reaches vertical from ventrals. Second dorsal inserted above 

 end of anal. Tip of dorsal and caudal black. 



DASYATID^. 



Dasyatis akajei (Miiller & Henle). 

 Recorded by Sauvage. 



^ull.Soc. Philom., 1881. 



5 Sitzungsb. Ak. Wiss. Wien., Oil, 1893. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Dasyatis walga (Miiller & Henle). 



Trygon walga, Giinther, Cat., VIII, 475. 

 Recorded by Sauvage. 



SILURIDiE. 



1 Chlarias fuscus (Lacepede). 



Macropteronotus fuscus Lacdpede, Hist. Nat. Poiss. 

 Clarias fuscus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, V, 18, 1864. 



Two specimens, 62 inches long. 



Top of head 3 \ ; depth 6 in length ; eye 5 in interorbital. D. 56 ; 

 A. 43 ; P. 1-8. 



Gill membranes united at a broad angle, only the margin free 

 from the isthmus. Dorsal and anal single, long, separated from 

 caudal. Chamber for the dendritic accessory branchial organs closed 

 by palmate flaps, situated on the gill arches. A prominent notch 

 with a fleshy protuberance above it on anterior edge of shoulder 

 girdle. The clavicles form broad striate plates, covered by thin 

 skin, meeting by suture, the hinder edges forming a broad angle. 

 Head depressed, its width II in length, equal to head in front of 

 snout; occipital process broadly rounded; upper and lateral parts 

 of head osseous, granular, covered by thin skin. Two fontanelles, 

 one just back of eye, the other in front of occipital. Eyes small, 

 with free margins. Head depressed, its width If in its length, equal 

 to head in front of occipital fontanelle. Villiform teeth in bands on 

 jaws and vomer. Barbels eight, that of the maxillary reaching tip 

 of pectoral spine, the nasal scarcely to base of occipital process. 

 Pectoral only with spine, which is 2| in top of head, anterior edge 

 thin and finely serrate, irregularly serrate behind. Origin of dor- 

 sal over tips of pectorals, ventrals reach origin of anal, caudal 

 slightly rounded. Color, in alcohol, uniformly dark above, lighter 

 on belly. 



Tachysurus sinensis Lacepede. 



Tachysurus sinensis Lacepede, V, p. 151, pi. 5, fig. 2, China. 

 Arius falcarius, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, V, 168, 1864 ; Day, Fishes of India, 

 468, pi. 106, fig. 5, 1888. 



Three specimens, Si inches long. 



Head 4 ; depth 5 J ; eye 4|. D. I, 7 ; A. 16 to 18. 



CYPRINIDJE. 



Cyprinus carpio Linnaeus. Giinther, Cat. IV, 25. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



1 This generic name dates in binominal nomenclature from Scopoli, 1777, 

 who spelled it Chlarias. 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Carassius auratus Linnajus. Giinther, Cat. IV, 32. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Labeo decorus Peters. 



Labeo decorus Peters, Monatsbericht der Konigl. Akademie der Wiss. Berl., 

 Dec, 1880, p. 1031. 



Two specimens, 4J and 6 inches long. 



Head 4} ; depth 2>\ ; eye 3 ; scales 8 or 9-38-5. D. 15 ; A. 7 ; P. 

 17 ; teeth 5, 4, 2-2, 4, 5. 



Dorsal and ventral profiles about equally arched, not concave 

 above eyes. Snout blunt, little projecting, three folds to upper lip, an 

 outer simple membrane, an inner one, soft, cartilaginous covered with 

 a horny substance, between them a fringed fold. Lower lip with a 

 horny-covered fold, which is continuous with the fringed fold of the 

 upper lip ; outside of this the lip is full and finely papillose. Diam- 

 eter of eye equals width of mouth, equals snout, and is 1^ in inter- 

 orbital space. Rostral barbel longer than and reaching the base of 

 the maxillary barbel, a pore at its base. Pharyngeal bones small ; 

 the teeth set very obliquely, almost parallel with the upper arm of 

 the bone ; their crowns scarcely oblique, close together, each with a 

 raised edge and grooved in middle. Dorsal inserted midway be- 

 tween snout and end of anal, its height equal to its base, free mar- 

 gin emarginate. Pectorals nearly as long as head, shorter than 

 ventrals. Ventrals inserted under seventh ray of dorsal, midway 

 between tip of snout and base of caudal. Caudal deeply forked, 

 middle rays scarcely more than a third as long as longest, upper 

 lobe two in body behind head. Depth of tail equals its length. 

 Lateral line descending above pectoral, straight posteriorly. Scales 

 finely striate. 



The specimens here described agree with the original description 

 except in the mouth parts, and these may vary. The original de- 

 scription, which was based on a specimen 33 cm. long, says that 

 there is but one pair of barbels, and that the middle of the upper 

 lip is smooth. I do not feel like basing a new species on these speci- 

 mens when they are so nearly like one described from the same 

 territory (Hong Kong). 



Acanthorhodeus dioseus Rutter, new species. 



Allied to Acanthorhodeus guichenoti Bleeker, Acad. Royale Mer. des Sci- 

 ences, Amsterd., 1871, Deel XII, pi. 13, fig. 2. 



Three specimens, 3 inches long, No. 4,997, Lelaud Stanford, Jr. 



University Museum. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



Head 4f in length to base of caudal ; depth 2? ; eye 2f in head ; 

 scales 6-34-5. D. 17 or 18 ; A. 13 or 14. 



Dorsal beginning over middle of space between ventrals and oval, 

 a little nearer caudal than tip of snout. Ventrals nearly reaching 

 anal ; origin of anal under fourth branched ray of dorsal ; end of 

 dorsal over next to last ray of anal ; pectorals nearly reaching ven- 

 trals, equal to length of tail from anal. Least depth of tail 1$ in 

 its length, equal to distance between pectoral and lateral line. Teeth 

 with a few serrse. Barbels rather well-developed, I length of eye. 

 Snout f of eye. Length of head equal to greatest distance above 

 lateral line, depth of head equal to or a little less than greatest dis- 

 tance below lateral line. Caudal forked. Color, in alcohol, oliva- 

 ceous, a narrow, dark band on side of tail, pointed anteriorly and 

 two obscure blotches on each side behind head, above lateral line ; 

 dorsal with two rows of dark spots on the rays. 



This species is closely related to Acanthorhodeus guichenoti 

 Bleeker, differing in having a more slender body with fewer longi- 

 tudinal rows of scales and a more posterior dorsal with but two 

 long rays. 



Squaliobarbus curriculus (Richardson). 



Leuciscus curriculus Richardson, Ichtli., China, 299. 

 Squaliobarbus curriculus, Gunther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 297, 1867. 



Six specimens, 3? to 6? inches long. 



Head 4 ; depth 4 ; eye 4 ; scales 8-42-3. D. 8 or 9 ; A. 9 ; V. 9 ; 



teeth 5, 4, 2-2, 4, 4. 



Xenocypris argentea Giinther. 



Xetiocypris argentea Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 205, 1867. 



Five specimens, 4 to 6 inches long. 



Head U ; depth 3f ; eye 3 J ; scales 11-60-5. D. 9 ; A. 12 ; teeth 

 6, 4, 2-2, 3, 6. 



Teeth of outer row with grinding surface but little oblique, con- 

 cave, grooved. 



Chanodichthys terminalis (Richardson). 



Abramis terminalis Richardson, Ichthyology China, 294 {Gunther). 

 Chanodichthys terminalis, Gunther, Cat. Fishes VII, 326, 1867. 



Two specimens, 4 and 5? inches long. 



Head 4J ; depth 2| and 2| ; eye 2f ; scales 12-52-7. D. 9 ; A. 

 28 ; teeth 5, 4, 2-2, 4, 5. 



Snout f of eye. Head equal to depth from origin of dorsal to 

 lateral line, depth of head equals depth below lateral line under 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



origin of dorsal. Head small, an angle in outline at occiput, back 

 slightly arched in front of dorsal. Origin of dorsal over interspaces 

 between ventrals and anal, its longest rays nearly equal to base of 

 anal. Pectorals almost reach ventrals. Origin of anal immediately 

 behind dorsal. Caudal forked for nearly f its length, the lower 

 lobe longest. Lateral line distinct, decurved, interrupted on tail. 

 Another lateral furrow or groove extends under the scales from the 

 head to the tail, but has no pores. Sides silvery, no other color- 

 markings. 



Hypophthalmichthys nobilis (Gray). 



Leuciscus nobilis (Gray) Richardson, Ich. Voy. Sulph., p. 140, pi. 63, fig. 

 3 (Giintker). 



Hypophthalmichthys nobilis, Giinther, Cat., VII, 299, 1868. 



COBITIDJE. 



Misgurnus anguillicaudatus (Cantor). 



Cobitis anguillicaudata Cantor, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist., IX, 1892, p. 485. 

 Misgurnus anguillicaudatus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 345, 1867. 



. Head 6 ; depth 8 ; eye 5. D. 9 ; A. 7 ; V. 6. 



Gill-openings not extending below upper base of pectorals ; rudi- 

 mentary caudal rays greatly developed, extending forward along 

 lower edge of tail half way to tip of anal, the fatty keel extending 

 to under tip of anal, both equally developed on dorsal side. Inner 

 mandibulary barbels attached to base of outer. 



Acanthopsis lachnostoma Rutter, new species. 



Head 4f ; depth 7f ; eye 6 h D. 8 ; A. 6. 



Head and body long and compressed, the back nearly straight, 

 slightly elevated at origin of dorsal. Eyes high and posterior, in- 

 terorbital £ eye, postorbital part of head less than eye. Head regu- 

 larly arched anteriorly, length of snout equal to greatest depth of 

 body ; mouth with ten barbels, four on mandibles, the posterior of 

 which scarcely projecting beyond the membrane which connects 

 them ; nostrils close together in middle of snout, the anterior with a 

 short tube ; suborbital spine in front of eye, hidden in a groove ; 

 entire mouth and gill-cavity thickly covered with elongate papillse ; 

 larger and more scattered in mouth cavity, where some of them are 

 slightly branched, papillse also present on the outer edge of the 

 filamants of the outer gill-arch. Origin of dorsal nearer snout than 

 base caudal, longest ray If in head ; origin of ventrals slightly 

 nearer caudal ; a fold of skin in axil. Pectorals horizontal ; caudal 

 slightly emarginate, li in head. Scales very minute, about 200 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



cross series, lateral line straight. Color, in alcohol : Body reddish- 

 brown, a series of thirteen dusky spots along lateral line, another of 

 smaller spots along edge of back, a band of small, dusky markings 

 between them ; back with dusky blotches, six or seven in median 

 line in front of dorsal ; cheeks pale yejlowish-brown, with dusky 

 specks, a dark blue line from eye to end of snout ; dorsal and cau- 

 dal with small, dusky spots on rays, other fins colorless ; a small, 

 oval, black spot placed obliquely on upper base of caudal. 



This species may be distinguished by its short dorsal and convex 

 snout. 



Described from a specimen 6 inches long. 



MONOPTERIDJE. 



Monopterus albus (Zuiew). 



Murcena alba Zuiew, Nov. Act. Ac. Sc. Petropol., VII, 1793, p. 299, tab. 

 7, fig. 2 {Giinther). 



Monopterus javanensis, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VIII, 14, 1870. 



Two specimens, 14 inches long. 



Dorsal fold of skin rudimentary on tail only. Teeth in bands in 

 both jaws and on palatines. Eyes small, 2 in snout, above middle of 

 maxillary. Posterior nostrils the larger, situated between the eyes ; 

 anterior nostrils in middle of length of snout. Width of gill-open- 

 ing equal to cleft of mouth. Tail tapering to a point. Color, in 

 alcohol, almost black, lighter below, with small black spots. 



LEPTOCEPHALID.EI. 



TJroconger lepturus (Richardson). 



Congrus lepturus, Richardson, Voy. Sulph., Fishes, 106, pi. 56, figs. 1-6. 

 Uroco?iger lepturus^ Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VIII, 44, 1870. 



Head 9 i, 2f in distance from snout to vent, depth 2 in head ; eye 7, 

 2 in snout. 



Murasnesox oinereus (Forskal). 



Murcena cinerea Forskal, pp. X and 22, 1775. 



Mtircenesox cinereus, Giinther, Cat., VIII, 46, 1870; Day, Fishes of India, 

 662, pi. 168, fig. 4, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



MYRID^J. 



Muraenichthys gymnopterus (Bleeker). 



Murcenichthys gy?nnopterus Bleeker, Atl. Ich., Murenes, 32, pi. 140, fig. 1, 

 18G4; Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VIII, 52, 1870. 



One specimen, 8 inches long. 



Body nearly terete, slightly compressed. Dorsal fin beginning 

 somewhat nearer vent than gill opening, anal about equally devel- 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



oped, both confluent with caudal, which is rayed. Pharynx some- 

 what saccate ; gill openings much behind head, one-third the distance 

 from snout to vent. Eye over middle of cleft of mouth, small, 1£ 

 in snout, about equal in size to gill opening. Teeth blunt conical, 

 one irregular row in each jaw, those at symphysis of lower jaw some- 

 what smaller and grouped ; two rows of about six each on vomer. 

 Maxillary extending for length of snout beyond cleft of mouth, the 

 distance of its tip from anterior margin of eye equal to greatest 

 depth of body. Nostrils labial. Colorless (in alcohol), finely dusted 

 with black specks on back. 



OPHICHTHYIDJE. 



Ophichthus cancrivorus (Richardson). 



Ophisurus cancrivorus Richardson, Voy. Ereb. & Terr., Fish., 97, 1848. 

 Ophichthys cancrivortis, Gunther, Cat. VIII, 78, 1870. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Pisoodonophis boro (Hamilton-Buchanan). 



Ophisurus boro Hamilton-Buchanan, Fish. Gang., pp. 20, 363 [Giinther). 

 Pisoodonophis boro, Kaup, Apod., p. 17 (Giinther), 1856. 

 Ophichthys boro, Giinther, Cat., VIII, 77, 1870 ; Day, Fishes of India, 664, 

 pi. 171, fig. 2. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



MORINGUIDJE. 



Moringua lumbricoidea Richardson. 



Moringua lumbricoidea Richardson, Voy. Sulph. Ich., 113, pi. 56, figs. 7- 

 11 ; Gunther, Cat., VIII, 91, 1870. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



DOROSOMATID^l. 



Dorosoma prrnctatum (Sehlegel). 



Chatoessus punctatus Sehlegel, Fauna Japonica, p. 240, pi. 109, fig. 1, 1847; 

 Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 408, 1867. 



One specimen, 6 inches long. 



Head 3|, depth 3|, eye 4 ; scales 50-19 ; B. 6 ; D. 15 ; A. 21. 



Snout somewhat projecting, maxillary reaching under anterior 

 fourth of eye ; no teeth ; eye a little longer than snout ; lower margin 

 of opercle convex. Ventral inserted under 4th or 5th ray of dorsal, 

 and nearer base of pectoral than origin of anal, extending about f of 

 the distance to anal. Tip of pectoral is below origin of dorsal, 

 which is nearer snout than caudal. Dorsal filament reaching past 

 end of anal. Base of pectoral not wholly below gill opening. Profile 

 regularly curved, deepest at origin of dorsal. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Dorosoma thrissa (Osbeck). 



Clupea thrissa Osbeck, Keise, p. 336, 1765 ( Gunther). 

 Clupea thrissa, Gunther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 432, 1867. 



Six specimens, 31 to 5 inches long. 



Head 3, depth 2f to 3, eye 4 \ to 4 ; B. 6 ; D. 15 ; A. 23 or 24 ; 

 P. 13 to 16 ; V. 8 ; scales about 40-19. 



Jaws even in front, maxillary almost to vertical from middle of 

 eye, no teeth ; eye equal to snout, lower margin of opercle concave. 

 Ventrals inserted under 5th or 6th ray of dorsal, under tip of pec- 

 toral, and midway between base of pectoral and origin of anal, ex- 

 tending halfway to anal. Origin of dorsal midway between snout 

 and caudal, dorsal filament reaching end of anal. Base of pectoral 

 wholly below or in front of posterior edge of gill opening. 11 or 12 

 scutes behind ventrals. Profile more convex anteriorly, deepest 

 just behind pectoral. 



ELOPIDJE. 



Megalops cyprinoides (Broussonet). 



Clupea cyprinoides Broussonet, Dec., Ich. I, tab. 9, 1782. 

 Megalops cyprinoides, Gunther, Cat., VII, 471, 1868 ; Day, Fishes of India, 

 650, pi. 159, fig. 3, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Sardinella nymphaea (Richardson). 



Clupea nymphma Richardson, Ichth. China, 304, ( Gunther) ; Gunther, Cat. 

 Fishes, VII, 428, 1867. 



Three specimens, 4i inches long. 



Head 4, depth 3i, eye 3 to 3t ; scales, lat. 1. 40, trans. 11 ; D. 16 

 or 17 ; A. 19 to 21 ; V. 9. 



Lower jaw well projecting; snout shorter than eye, 31 in head; 

 maxillary to vertical from anterior margin of pupil. Teeth very 

 minute on tongue and pterygoids, in two or three cross rows on pala- 

 tines, none in jaws or on vomer. Opercular bones with strise indis- 

 tinct or absent, a reentrant angle of about 50° at lower corner. 

 Pseudobranchiae large, the filaments free, about a dozen in number, 

 about as large as gill-rakers. Scales with margins striate and irregu- 

 larly crenulate, the middle portion more or less projecting; two or 

 three vertical lines near base. Thirteen scutes behind ventrals. 

 Middle of dorsal midway between snout and base of caudal, ventral 

 below middle of dorsal. Color, in alcohol, sides below a line from 

 upper margin of eye to upper edge of caudal, silvery, above this 

 dark steel-blue. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Clupea reevesii (Richardson). 



Alosa reevesii Richardson, Ich. China, 305 (Gunther). 

 Clupea reevesii, Giinther, Cat., VII, 446, 1868. 



Recorded by Sauvage. I do not know to what genus this is to be 

 referred — certainly neither to Alosa nor to Clupea. 



Pristigaster sinensis Sauvage. 



Described by Sauvage from Swatow. 



ENGRATJLIDIDJE. 



Stolephorus japonicus (Houttuyn). 



Atherina japonica Houttuyn, Verh. Holl. Maatsch. Wet. Haarl., XX, 2, 

 1789, p. 340 ( Gunther). 



Engraulis japonica, Gunther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 390, 1867. 



Six specimens, about 4 inches long. 



Head 4^, depth 5, eye 3 ; scales about 38 ; D. 13 to 15 ; A. 19 

 to 22. 



Abdomen not compressed, but with six weak, spine-bearing scutes 

 in front of ventrals ; origin of dorsal nearer caudal than snout, origin 

 of anal below middle of dorsal ; teeth in both jaws minute but equal 

 in size; snout rather blunt, not much projecting, maxillary nearly 

 to gill opening, scales entirely deciduous. A narrow silvery lateral 

 band. 



Stolephorus kammalensis (Bleeker). 



Engraulis kammalensis Bleeker, Verh. Bat. Gen., XXII, 13. 

 Engraulis rhino rhynchus, Gunther, Cat., VII, 394, 1868. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Genus TRICHOSOMA Swainson. 



Thrissa Gray, Ind. Zool., 1830-4 (hamiltonii) ; preoccupied by Rafinesque, 

 who substituted this name for Clupanodon, Analyse de la Nature, 1815, 88. 



Trichosoma Swainson, Natural Hist. Fishes, Amph. and Rep., II, 292, 1839 

 (hamiltonii). 



Thryssa Richardson, Ichthyology of China, 309, 1845- 



This genus may be defined as follows : Abdomen much com- 

 pressed, provided with spine-bearing scutes, which usually extend 

 forward to the gill opening ; maxillary produced, usually extending 

 beyond the gill opening; gill-rakers rather wide set, 12 to 20 on 

 lower arm of outer gill arch ; teeth well developed in both jaws, two 

 oval patches each on vomer and palatines, those of the vomer some- 

 what enlarged ; minute teeth on gill arches and pterygoids, and some- 

 times on the hyal bones ; body rather deep (depth 31 in length, E. 

 mystacoides), pectorals reaching past middle of ventrals ; ridge on 

 top of head somewhat elevated, forming two sloping sides which meet 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



at an angle of about 100° ; a carinated scute terminating in a small 

 sharp spine in front of dorsal ; vertebra? 45 (T. mystacoides). 



Ti'iohosoma porava (Bleeker). 



Thryssa porava Bleeker, Verh. Bat., XXII, Ich. Madura, p. 14, Dec, 1848. 

 Engratdis mystacoides, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 396, 1867. 



(It is unfortunate that there is another species of this genus 

 named purava). 



Two specimens, 4 inches long. 



Head 4 and 4|, depth 4, eye 4 and 41 ; scales 42 ; B. 9 or 10 ; 

 D. 13 ; A. 40 ; P. 12 and 13 ; V. 8 ; gill-rakers 13. 



Dorsal nearer caudal than snout, its last rays over origin of anal ; 

 pectorals reaching nearly to the tips of ventrals, which are small. 25 

 spiny scutes on abdomen, extending forward to the gill opening. 

 Snout very short, about f of eye, projecting but little beyond lower 

 jaw. Maxillary not quite reaching pectoral, pointed with teeth on 

 full length. Most anterior teeth of jaws strongly hooked backward, 

 others nearly straight but inclined slightly forward. Small or 

 minute teeth on palatines, pterygoids, gill-arches and hyal bones ; 

 two patches each on vomer and palatines, those of the vomer some- 

 what enlarged. Gill-rakers coarse, spiny, shorter than eye. 



Trichosoma adelse Rutter. New species. 



Eight specimens, 5 inches long ; No. 1,565, Leland Stanford Junior 

 University. 



Head 4 J, depth 3! to 4, eye 3f to 4 ; scales 40 ; B. 12 ; D. 11 to 

 12 ; A. 39 to 41 ; P. 14 ; V. 7 ; gill-rakers 20. 



Dorsal short, its depth twice length of base, the last four rays 

 especially weak and short, its origin very slightly nearer caudal than 

 snout. Origin of anal under last ray of dorsal, pectorals reaching 

 middle of ventrals. Twenty-five scutes on abdomen. Maxillary 

 pointed, extending beyond base of pectorals, with teeth on its full 

 length. Teeth in both jaws equal in size, those on the palatine 

 slightly enlarged, in two patches, but minute, on gill-arches, but none 

 on hyal bones, broad oval patches on palatines, present on pterygoids. 

 Snout very short, 5f of eye, projecting but little beyond lower jaw. 

 Gillrakers very thin and closely set, shorter than eye, edge rough. 

 Sides silvery, back flesh color (in alcohol), black punctulation on 

 scapular region. 



This species is most closely related to Trichosoma porava (Bleeker), 

 with which it is found. It differs in having fewer dorsal rays and 

 more gill-rakers, characters by which it differs from all other species 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



of Trichosoma, so far as I can determine. There are no teeth on 

 the hyal bones, the maxillary is more produced, the eye larger, and 

 there are no punctulations on lower side of head. 



I take pleasure in naming this species for Miss Fielde. 



Trichosoma hamiltonii (Gray). 



Thrissa hamiltonii Gray, Ind. Zool., 1830-4. 



Trichosoma hamiltonii, Swainson, Fish, etc., II, 292, 1839. 



Engraulis hainiltonii, Giinther, Cat., VII, 395, 1868. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Mystus mystus (Linnteus). 



Clupea mystus Linnseus in Osbeck, Iter., p. 256 {Giinther). 



Mystus clupeoides, Lacepede, V, 467, 1803. 



Coilia clupeoides, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VII, 404, 1867. 



Several specimens, 6 to 7 inches long. 



Head 51, depth 5i, eye 4^; scales about 58 ; B. 10 ; D. 12 or 13 ; 

 A. about 80 ; gill-rakers about 28. 



Body regularly tapering from dorsal to tip of caudal, snout pro- 

 jecting half its length beyond lower jaw, eye equal to or very slightly 

 less than snout. Mandible If in head, maxillary to below root of 

 pectoral. Teeth on maxillary becoming larger and farther apart 

 posteriorly, but somewhat worn off on the free portion. Teeth of 

 lower jaw in a single series, imbedded in the gums; two small, 

 widely separated patches of strong teeth on vomer, a single row on 

 palatines, none on hyoid arch. Base of dorsal high anteriorly, a 

 rudimentary free spine in front, the last rays short, so that their tips 

 form an almost vertical line when the fin is extended. Anal low, 

 covered with large scales, rays crowded posteriorly, its origin under 

 tip of depressed dorsal. Pectoral filaments seven, their tips reaching 

 about to eighth anal ray, the non-filamentous rays reaching about to 

 middle of depressed ventrals. Ventrals inserted slightly in advance 

 of dorsal, their length scarcely longer than base of dorsal. Base of 

 caudal oblique, upper lobe of fin longer. Sixteen spinous scutes on 

 abdomen. 



Mystus grayi (Richardson). 



Coilia grayi Kichardson, Voy. Sulph., Fish., p. 99, pi. 54, figs. 1 and 2. 

 ( Giinther) ; Giinther, Cat., VII, 4U5, 1868. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Setipinnamelanochir (Bleeker). 



Engraulis melanochir Bleeker, Verh. Bat. Gen., XXII, p. 13 (Giinther) ,• 

 Giinther, Cat., VII, 400, 1868. 



Telara melanochir, Sauvage, op. cit. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



SALANGID^]. 



Salanx chinensis (Osbeck). 



Albula chinensis Osbeck, Eeise in China, Rostock, 309, 1765 {Giinther). 

 Salanx chinensis, Giinther, Cat., VI, 205, 1866. 



Four specimens, 3 i to 6 inches long. 



Head 4f , eye 7 J ; D. 10 ; A. 25 ; P. 12 ; V. 7. 



The stomach is seemingly capable of considerable dilation ; a row 

 of small black specks along the side of the belly. One specimen has 

 at the base of the anal fin a peculiar enlargement of the muscles, 

 which is bounded above by a line of pores. It also has some black 

 coloring about the pectorals and occiput. Scales of all specimens 

 entirely deciduous. 



Salangichthys microdon Bleeker. 



Salangichthys microdon Bleeker, Act. Soc. Sc. Indo-Nederl., VII, Japan, 

 VI, p. 100 {Giinther). 



Salanx microdon, Giinther, Cat., VI, p. 206, 1866. 



Three specimens, less than 3 inches long. 



Head 6, eye 4} ; D. 13 ; A. 24 ; P. 18 ; V. 7. 



Teeth small, in a single row in each jaw, none on tongue, vomer 

 or palatines. Head abruptly narrowed in front of the eyes, much 

 depressed, the depth at eyes being about half the width. Edge of 

 maxillary serrate. Origin of dorsal about midway between eyes and 

 tip of caudal ; tip of ventrals scarcely reach to below origin of dorsal, 

 about half way to anal, webs very broad ; origin of anal behind tip 

 of dorsal ; adipose fin above hinder part of anal. Anterior rays of 

 anal much longer than posterior. Basal half of pectorals fleshy, 

 spreading, fan-shaped, the naked rays projecting from the margin 

 like fingers. The whole fin less than half as long as ventrals, 18 to 

 24 ray division beyond the fleshy part. Scales entirely deciduous. 



SYNODONTIDJE. 



Harpodon nehereus (Buchanan Hamilton). 



Osmerus nehereus Buch. Ham., Fish Gang., 209 {Giinther). 

 Harpodon nehereus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, V, p. 401, 1864 ; Day, Fishes of 

 India, p. 505, pi. 118, fig. 1, 1888. 



Two specimens, six inches long. 



Head 4f , depth about 8, eye equal to snout ; D. 13 ; A. 16 ; P. 

 10; V. 9. 



Pectorals about reach ventrals, ventrals reach anal, dorsal in- 

 serted over ventrals, adipose dorsal over origin of anal, cleft of 

 mouth equals distance from eye to pectoral. See Giinther, Cat. V, 

 p. 401. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Trachinocephalus limbatus (Eydoux & Souleyet). 



Saurus limbatus Eydoux & Souleyet, Voy. Bonite, Poiss, p. 199, pi. 7, fig. 

 3. 



Saurus myops, Gunther, Cat. Fishes, V, 398, 1864. 



One specimen, 6? inches long. 



Head 3J, depth 6, eye h\ ; scales 56 ; B. 12 ; D. 12 ; A. 15 ; P. 

 12; V. 8. 



Body somewhat compressed, back not elevated at dorsal. Snout 

 shorter than eye, lower jaw slightly projecting. Maxillary 1| in 

 head ; distance from snout to hinder margin of eye If in maxillary. 

 Top of head and edge of post-temporal finely corrugated, interor- 

 bital deeply concave, very little over half of eye. Fully developed 

 teeth all depressible. A new series of teeth seems to grow in the 

 maxillary to replace those broken off. Gill-rakers replaced by 

 small teeth. Seventeen scales before dorsal, very large elongated 

 scales on caudal. Dorsal higher than long, its origin midway be- 

 tween snout and adipose fin, its base longer than maxillary ; pec- 

 torals reach middle of base of ventrals, and to tenth scale of lateral ; 

 base of ventrals oblique, the two meeting and forming a V-shaped 

 area covered by rather large scales, some rather large scales in axil 

 of ventrals; ventrals nearly reach vent; origin of anal under tip of 

 depressed dorsal, tip of anal almost reaches caudal, base of anal 

 equals head without snout. Sides with two stripes about a scale 

 wide, and two narrower. Top of head with dark vermiculations ; 

 the supraclavicle, which is a large smooth plate, is black. No dark 

 band from eye across lower jaw. 



This species is very closely related to Trachinocephalus myops, of 

 the Atlantic. It may even prove to be the same when a number of 

 specimens are compared. A specimen of the latter species from 

 Bahia, Brazil, and another from Jamaica, differ from the specimen 

 here described, in having the body, especially the tail, less com- 

 pressed ; scales on cheeks more imbricated, in 8 rows, 7 in the spec- 

 imen here described, and a longer maxillary (If in head, twice dis- 

 tance from snout to hinder margin of eye). The bases of the anal 

 and dorsal are shorter, the former, being equal to the length of head 

 behind pupil, and the latter shorter than the maxillary. The ver- 

 miculations of the head coarser, and the brown stripe of one eye 

 across jaws is present. 



Saurida argyrophanes (Richardson). 



Saurus argyrophanes Richardson, Ich. China, 302. 

 Saurida argyrophanes, Gunther, Cat. V, 400, 1864. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



ESOCIDJE. 



Tylosurus strongylurus (Bleeker). 



Mastacembelus strongylurus Bleeker, Ned. Tidschr. Dierk. Ill, 1863 

 ( Guntker\ 



Belong strongylurus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VI, 246,* 1866 ; Day, Fishes of 

 India, p. 512, pi. 118, fig. 6, 1888. 



Three specimens, 11 in. long. 



Head 3, D. 14; A. 17; P. 11. 



As described by Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VI, 246. 



Eye equals interorbital space 3 in postorbital part of head. 

 Lower jaw slightly projecting, with fleshy tip. Depth 1J in length 

 of pectoral ; pectoral equals postorbital part of head. Ventral 

 nearer head than caudal. Caudal truncate or slightly rounded. 



HEMIRAMPHIDJE. 



Hyporhamphus sinensis (Giinther). 



Hemirhamphus sinensis Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VI, 265, 1866. 



One specimen, 6 inches long. 



Head 2|, depth 9 ; D. 15 ; A. 15 ; P. 11. 



OPHICEPHALIDJS. 



Ophicephalus maculatus (Lacepede). 



Bostrychus ?naculatus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss.,111, pp. 140, 143, 1802. 

 Ophiocephalus maculatus, Cuvier & Valenciennes, 7, 437, 1831 ; Giinther, 

 Cat. Fishes, III, 480, 1861. 



One specimen, 7 \ in. long. 



Head 3£, depth 5*, eye 7 ; scales 6-56-12 ; D. 44 ; A. 30. 



Channa ocellata Peters. 



Channa ocellata Peters, Monatsber. Acad. Wiss. Berl., 1864, 392. 



Head 3f, depth 6i, eye 5 ; D. 45 ; A. 29 ; scales 6-56-11. 



All teeth in lower jaw about equal in size, in a single series, ex- 

 cept in front, where they form a band. Teeth in two series on pal- 

 atines, two or three on vomer, and in a band in upper jaw. Eye 

 equal to snout. Interorbital nearly flat, its width 3J in head. 

 Maxillary extending beyond orbit, 2k in head. Preorbital very 

 narrow, its narrowest portion about as wide as maxillary. A short 

 barbel, f length of eye, on each side of snout. Scales on top of 

 head rather large, f diameter of eye, seven scales between eye and 

 angle of preopercle. A simple accessory respiratory organ without 

 very well developed closing membranes, there being only a slight 

 fold from opercle to upper part of first gill arch, and a process from 

 one of the suspensory bones and a small process from the gill 




70 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



arches. Union of gill membranes in middle of length of head. A 

 broad shallow groove in front of dorsal. Origin of dorsal over 

 second scale behind pectoral, pectoral extending # of distance to 

 anal, origin of anal midway between snout and base of caudal. 

 End of dorsal farther posterior than that of anal, last rays of dorsal 

 reaching for half their length over caudal. Pectoral equals post- 

 orbital part of head. Caudal rather pointed, its length 4J in that 

 of body. Ventrals wanting. Tail from anal equals one-half its 

 depth, which is over half that of the body. Scales with rather wavy 

 concentric stria?, lateral line decurved and interrupted over origin 

 of anal. Color, in alcohol : Sides with about a dozen cross stripes 

 each bent with the angle forward, dorsal dark, anal edged with 

 black, dark above, belly washed with black, a dark blotch on upper 

 side of head and a dark stripe backward from eye. A black ocellus 

 at base of caudal. 



This species is readily distinguished from orientalis by the greater 

 number of fin rays and scales and by the two rows of teeth on the 

 palatines. 



The above description is based on one specimen, 5 J in. long. 



FISTULARIIDJE. 



Fistularia serrata Cuvier. 



Fistularia serrata Cuvier, Kegne Animal, Poiss., 209, 1829; Giinther, Cat. 

 Ill, 533, 1861 ; Day, Fishes of India, 360, pi. 76, fig. 3, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



MUGILIDJE. 



Mugil oeur (Forskal). 



Mugil crenilabis frir Forskal, pp. XIV, 74, No. 109c, 1775. 



Mugil japonicus, Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, p- 134, pi. 72, fig. 1, 1847. 



Mugil cephalotus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 419, 1861. 



One specimen, 9 in. long. 



Head 4, depth U, eye 4 ; scales 38-13 ; D. I V-8 ; A. Ill, 8. 



Mugil strongylocephalus Cuv. & Val. 



Mugil strongylocephalus Richardson, Ich. China [Giinther); Giinther, Cat., 

 Ill, 425, 1861. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Mugil troschelii (Bleeker). 



Mugil troschelii Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 448. 



One small specimen, 2 inches long, part of the scales off and tip 

 of caudal broken. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Head 3J, depth 4, eye 34 ; scales about 30 ; D. IV-I, 8 ; A. Ill, 

 9. 



Agrees in every respect with the description gven by Giinther. 



POLYNEMIDJE. 



Polydactylus tetradactylus (Shaw). 



Polynemus tetradactylus Shaw, Zool., V, 155, 1819 ; Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 

 329, I860; Day, Fishes of India, p. 180, 1888. 



One specimen, 7 inches long. 



Head 3£, depth 4, eye 5 ; scales 89 ; D. VIII-I, 15 ; A. Ill, 15. 



Longest rays of soft dorsal much longer than its base, all reach- 

 ing past end of fin ; longest rays of anal about equal to its base, 

 some falling short of end of fin. Pectoral filaments four, scarcely 

 reaching past base of ventrals. Upper caudal lobe slightly longer, 

 middle caudal rays less than one-third length of lobes. First dor- 

 sal spine very short, about equal to length of adjacent scales. All 

 fins, but spinous dorsal, finely scaled. Scales minutely granulose 

 and toothed, lateral line extending on to lower caudal lobe, not on 

 upper. Tail deep and compressed, its width 2 \ in depth at middle 

 point between anal and caudal. Preopercle finely serrate, the ser- 

 rse becoming slightly larger downward. Scales deciduous on oper- 

 cle, which is finely striate. Teeth on mandible even on outer side. 

 No air bladder ; very numerous small pyloric cocca. 



MULLID^I. 



Upeneoides bensasi (Sohlegel). 



Mitllus bensasi Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, p. 30, p. XI, fig. 3, 1847. 

 Upeneoides bensasi, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, I, 399, 1859; Day, Fishes of India, 

 p. 121, pi. 30, fig. 5, 1888. 



Three young specimens, 4 inches long. 



Head 3*, depth 4g, eye 3i ; scales deciduous, 25 or 30 ; D. VII, 

 9 ; A. 7, P. 14. 



Eye 1} in snout, interorbital equal to vertical diameter of eye, 

 maxillary reaching vertical from anterior margin of orbit. Vom- 

 erine teeth in two diverging oblong patches connected by a single 

 series, all other teeth in narrow bands. Barbels reaching past pre- 

 operculum, about to middle of operculum. Height of dorsal equals 

 depth of body ; origin of anal under third or fourth ray of dorsal. 

 Length of ventral equal to head without snout ; pectoral long, 

 reaching past tip of ventral, about to tip of depressed dorsal. 



One would expect to find Upeneoides tragida in this territory, but 

 the specimens more nearly agree with the above. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Mulloides flavolineatus (Lacepede). 



Mullus flavolineatus Lacepede, III, 406. 



Mulloides flavolineatus, Giinther, Cat. I, 403, 1859; Day, Fishes of India, 

 122, pi. 30, fig. 6. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



SCOMBRIDJE. 



Scomberomorus guttatus (Bloch & Schneider). 



Sco?nber guttatus Bloch & Schneider, p. 23, 1801. 



Cybium guttatum, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 371, 1860. . 



One specimen. 



Head 4, depth 41, eye 4f ; D. XVI, 20, VIII ; A. 21, VII. 



TRICHURIDJE. 



Triohiurus japonicus (Schlegel). 



Trichiurus lepturus japonicus Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, 102, pi. 54, 1847. 

 Trichiurus japonicus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 347, 1860. 



One specimen, 32 inches long. 



Head 8, depth 17, eye 5*. 



Depth a little less than half of head ; eye a little over half snout, 

 greater than iuterorbital which is very slightly concave. Lower 

 jaw longer, upper jaw fitting behind the two lower front teeth. 

 Anterior teeth of lower jaw and the four larger ones of the upper 

 jaw barbed. Lateral line descending behind head, extending thence 

 parallel with ventral surface. Spines of anal very rudimentary, 

 scarcely distinguishable. Tail long filiform. Ventrals wanting. 

 Silvery. 



CARANGID.iE. 



Caranx kalla Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Caranx kalla Cuvier & Valenciennes, IX, 49, 1833 ; Day, Fishes of India, 

 219, pi. 49, fig. 5, 1888. 



Caranx calla, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 433, 1860. 



Three specimens, 3f inches long. 



Head 31; depth 3; eye 3 ; D. VII-22 ; A. II-I, 19; lateral 

 keels 42. 



Caranx leptolepis Cuvier & Valenciennes. Cuv. & Val., IX, 63, 1833, Gunther, Cat., 

 II, 440. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Decapterus maruadsi (Schlegel). Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 109, pi. 58, fig. 2, 1847 ; 

 Gunther, Cat., II, 428, 1860. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Caranx malabaricus (Bloch & Schneider). 



Scomber malabaricus Bloch & Schneider, 31, 1801. 



Caranx malabaricus, Giinther, Cat., II, 436; 1860; Day, Fishes of India, 

 221. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Trachurops crumenophthalmus (Bloch). 



Scomber crumenophthalmus Bloch, pi. 343. 



Caranx crumenophthalmus, Giinther, Cat., II, 429,1866; Day, Fishes of 

 India, 217, pi. 49, fig. 1, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



LEIOGNATHID^. 



Leiognathus nuchalis (Schlegel). 



Equula nuchalis Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, 126, pi. 67, fig. 1, 1847 ; Giinther, 

 Cat. Fishes, II, 500, 1860. 



Three specimens, 3 inches long. 



Head 3|, depth 2i, eye 3 ; D. VIII, 16 ; A. Ill, 14. 



STROMATEID^l. 



Stromateoides argenteus (Bloch). 



Stro7nateus argenteus Bloch, XII, 83, pi. 421, 1797. 

 Stromateus argenteus, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 400, 1860. 



One specimen, four inches long. 



Head 3i, depth H, eye 3 ; D. VIII, 44 ; A. VI, 39. 



Eye larger, longer than snout, 5 depth of gill opening. Pectoral 

 2h in body, dorsal lobe and upper caudal lobe equal to pectoral, 

 anal lobe 2i in body. Cleft of mouth to vertical from margin of 

 eye. Opercle weak, with prominent radiating striae. Lateral line 

 not developed as far as origin of soft dorsal. Ventrals wanting. 

 Origin of soft dorsal behind pectoral, over third anal spine. Silvery 

 below, silvery gray above, dorsal shaded with dark. 



Stromateus niger (Bloch). 



Stromateus niger Bloch, pt. XII, 85, pi. 422 ; Giinther, Cat., II, 401, 1860; 

 Day, Fishes of India, 247, pi. 53, fig. 4, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



SERRANID.S3. 



Epinephelus tauvina (Forskal). 



Serranus crapao Cuv. & Val., Ill, 494. 

 Recorded by Sauvage as Serranus crapao. 



Lateolabrax japonicus (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Serranus pacilonotus Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 6, pi, 4 A., fig. 1, 

 1847 ; Giinther, Cat., I, 155, 1859. 



Percolabrax pcccilonotus, Sauvage, op. cit. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Glaucosoma fauvelii Sauvage. 



Glaucosoma fauvelii Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philom. (7), V, 1881, 104 (Swatow). 



PRIACANTHIDJE. 



Priacanthus tayenus Richardson, Ich. Seas of China, p. 237 (Gunther); Giinther, 

 Cat., I, 221, 1839. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



LTTTIANIDJE. 



1 Lutianus vitta (Quoy & Gaimard). 



Mesoprion vitta Quoy & Gaimard, Yoy. de Freycinet, Zool., Poiss., 315, pi. 

 58, fig. 3, 1824-1827 {Gunthei ) ,• Gunther, Cat., I, 207, 1859. 



Diacope vitta, Schlegel, Fauna Jap., 13, pi. 6, fig. 1, 1847. 



Lntjamts vitta, Bleeker, Atl. Ichth., Perc, VIII, 51, pi. 340, fig. 5; Day, 

 Fishes of India, 46, pi. 14, fig. 2, 1888. 



One specimen, h\ inches long. 



Head 2f, depth 21, eye %\ ; scales 7-52-14 ; D. X, 13 ; A. Ill, 7. 



Preoperculurn finely denticulated, a black band extending from 

 eye to upper base of caudal (rather indistinct posteriorly, in alcoholic 

 specimen, but black anteriorly) ; an enlarged blotch in this band 

 under last rays of spinous dorsal; caudal emarginate middle rays to 

 outside rays as 4 : 5 ; dorsal with ten spines. Eye equal to snout, 

 interorbital 1* in orbit. Lower edge of eye on a line drawn from 

 tipofopercle to lower edge intermaxillary. About 10 teeth on 

 lower limb of preopercle and 43 on upper, those at the angle larger. 

 Upper limb very slightly emarginate, and the notch overinteroper- 

 cle but faintly indicated. Maxillary nearly to vertical from middle 

 of eye, equal to distance from snout to middle of eye. In each jaw 

 there is a single row of sharp pointed teeth, of irregular size, a pair 

 toward the front of upper jaw being somewhat enlarged. In the 

 upper jaw and in the front of the lower there is a narrow band of 

 cardif'orm teeth within the single row of canines. Numerous micro- 

 scopic cirri on end of lower jaw. Origin of pectoral in front of tip 

 of opercle, origin of dorsal over, and of ventral under tip of opercle. 

 Origin of anal under that of soft dorsal, end of anal under next to 

 last ray of dorsal. Ventrals extend a little over half way to anal, 

 length of pectoral equals greatest depth below lateral line, length of 

 caudal but little less than that of pectoral. Third, fourth and fifth 

 dorsal spines longest and equal. Second anal spine strongest, third 

 the longest, equal to sixth dorsal. Ventral spine shorter than third 



1 Bloch is responsible for the generic name here used. His first spelling, 

 vol. 7, p. 84, and pi. 245, is Lutianus, as above. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



anal, equal to second dorsal. A slight sheath at base of both dorsal 

 and anal. Scales and lateral line extend about one-third the length 

 of the caudal. The rows of scales above the anterior part of the 

 lateral line are parallel with it, but as the lateral line curves down- 

 ward they curve slightly upward until, near the end of dorsal, there 

 is quite a strong angle between them. Narrow black stripes along 

 each row of scales above the black band and along three or four 

 rows below it. Cheeks silvery, (alcoholic). Bleeker gives an ex- 

 cellent plate of this species. 



Lutianus johnii Bloch. 



Anthias johnii Bloch, tab., 31.S- 

 Mesoprion johnii, Giinther, Cat., I, 200. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



HJEMULID^. 



Pomadasis hasta (Bloch). 



Lutjanus hasta Bloch, Ichthyologia, pt. 7, p. 87, pi. 246, 1897. 

 Pristopoma hasta, Giinther, Cat. Fishes,} I, p. 289, 1859 ; Day, Fishes of 

 India, p. 73, pi. 19, 1888. 



Two young specimens, W inches long. 



Head 3 ; depth 2f ; eye 31 ; scales 7-47-10. D. XII, 14 ; A. 

 Ill, 8. 



Well described by Giinther, Cat. Fishes, I, p. 289. Scales of 

 lateral line very small, second anal spine equal to fourth dorsal. 

 Pectorals inserted under origin of dorsal, the ventrals but little be- 

 hind. Origin of anal under last dorsal spine. Ventrals reach al- 

 most to vent. Scales forming sheaths on each side of the dorsal and 

 anal fins. Maxillary to below anterior margin of eye. 



THERAPONTDJE. 



Therapon jarbua (Forskal). 



Sciana jarbua Forskal, Descr. Ainim., p. 5, 1775. 

 Holocentrus servtis, Bloch, tab., 238, pat. 7, p. 61. 



Thtrapon servtis, Giinther, Cat., I, p. 278, 1859. 



Therapon jarbua, Day, Fishes of India, p. 69, 1888. 



Four specimens, 3* to 5? inches long. 



Head 3 ; depth 3 ; eye 4 ; lat. 1. 100. D. XI-I, 10 ; A. Ill, 8. 



Therapon oxyrhynchus Schlegel. 



Therapon oxyrhynchus Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, 16, pi. VI, fig. 3, 1847 ; 

 Giinther, Cat. Fishes, I, 281, 1859. 



Three specimens, 3 inches long. 



Head 3 ; depth 3 ; scales 60. D. XII, 10 ; A. Ill, 8. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The specimens do not differ from the description given by Gun- 

 ther, Cat. Fishes, I, 281. 



SPARIDJE. 



Pagrus cardinalis (Lacepede). 



Sparus cardinalis Lacepede, IV, 141 ( Giinther). 

 Pagrus cardinalis, Giinther, Cat., I, 470, 1859. 



Lethrinus richardsonii Giinther. 



Lethrinus richardsonii Giinther. Cat. I, 456, 1859 (Hong Kong). 



Synagris celebicus (Bleeker). 



Dentex celebicus Bleeker, Celebes, V, p. 245 {Giinther'). 

 Synagris celebicus, Giinther, Cat., I, 377, 1859. 



Ch.rysopb.rys aries Schlegel. Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 67, pi. 31, 1847 ; 

 Giinther, Cat. I, 489. 



GERRID2E. 



Gerres japonicus Bleeker. 



G err es japonica Bleeker, Japan, 404 {Giinther) ; Giinther, Cat., IV, 260, 

 1862. 



One small specimen, 31 inches long, probably belongs to this spe- 

 cies. 



Head 3 } ; depth 2-f ; eye 2f ; scales about 34. D. IX, 10 ; A, 

 III, 7. 



Scales deciduous, at least 34 ; no filaments to any of the spines. 

 First dorsal and anal spines very short, the second of each fin 

 heaviest and the third longest. Longest dorsal spine 2\ in depth of 

 body, longest anal 2|in depth of body; pectorals long, reaching to 

 above origin of anal ; short filaments of ventral fins reaching origin 

 of anal. Back almost trenchant in front of dorsal; snout f of eye. 

 Edge of spinous dorsal black, four indistinct brown cross-bars on 

 side (alcoholic). 



Soiaena fauvelii (Sauvage). 



Corvina fauvelii Sauvage, Bull. Soc. Philom., Paris, 1881 (Swatow). 



Several specimens, 4 inches long. 



Head 3* ; depth 3 1 ; eye 3£. D. X-I, 29 ; A. I, 7. 



Soisena axillaris (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Corvina axillaris Cuv. & Val., V, 113, 1830; Giinther, Cat., II, 302. 

 ScicEtia axillaris, Day, 188, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 

 Soiaena amblyoeps (Bleeker). 

 Reported by Sauvage. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Collichthys lucidus (Richardson). 



Scicena lucida Richardson, Ich. Voy. Sulph., 87, pi. 44, figs. 3 and 4. 

 (Not Collichthys lucidus Gunther, Cat., II, 312, 1860, which was based on a 

 young specimen of C. biauritus. See Zoological Record, 1866, p. 143). 



Two specimens, 3 and 6 inches long. 



Head Z\ ; depth 3£ ; eye 5*. D. VIII-I, 23 ; A. II, 12. 



POMACENTRIDjE. 



Pomacentrus jordani Rutter, new species. 



One specimen, 4i inches long; No. 1,760, Leland Stanford, Jr., 

 University Museum. 



Head 3i ; depth 2£ ; eye 2| ; scales 6-44-10.. D. XIII, 13 ; A. 

 11,13; P. 18. 



Profile steep, regularly arched, snout short and blunt, a little 

 over half length of eye. Eye a little greater than interorbital width. 

 Preorbital narrow, the anterior side emarginate, without serrations, 

 its width in middle one-third its length which is two-thirds of eye. 

 Teeth compressed in a single series, quite small on side of jaw, be- 

 coming larger anteriorly, the six front ones in each jaw incisors 

 with a central cusp which, in the single type specimen, is brownish. 

 Maxillary very oblique, extending past vertical from front of eye. 

 Head entirely scaly except between and in front of eyes, four rows 

 of scales on cheeks. Interorbital transversely convex. Vertical 

 limb of preopercle very finely serrated, the serrations a little larger 

 at angle, none on lower limb. Opercle with two weak spines, the 

 upper one notched. Origin of dorsal over beginning of lateral line 

 and upper end of gill-opening. Soft portion scaly at base, the spin- 

 ous portion in a groove, the fourth and fifth spines longest. Origin 

 of anal under tenth or eleventh dorsal spine, the soft portion scaly, 

 the spinous portion in a groove. The last dorsal and anal rays 

 reach base of anal. Pectorals somewhat tapering, equal to length 

 of head without snout. Ventrals nearly as long as pectorals, but 

 not reaching anal. Caudal deeply forked, the lobes slightly fili- 

 form, the upper longer than lower, which is equal to length of head. 

 Least depth of caudal peduncle equal to half its length. Lateral 

 line creasing under fourth soft ray of dorsal, with 30 scales, the por- 

 tion in middle of tail represented on one side only, and that by one 

 or two pores. Color, in alcohol : Olive, scales above lateral line 

 with pale edges, those below with indications of light lines along 

 each row ; a deep black spot at upper base of pectoral, which is 

 otherwise colorless ; dorsal and anal with dark edges, middle rays of 

 caudal and ventrals tinged with black. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



This species is most closely related to Pomacentrus jerdoni Day, 

 differing from it in the Dumber of scales and in the anterior outline 

 of head. 



LABRIDJE. 



Iniistius pavo (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Xyrichthys pavo Cuv. & VaL, XIV, 61, 1839. 

 Novacula pavo, Giinther, Cat., IV, 175, 1862. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



DREPANID.SJ. 



Drepane punctata (Gmelin). 



CJuvtodon punctatus Gmelin, p. 1243, 1774. 



Drepane punctata, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 62, 1860 ; Day, Fishes of India, 

 116, 1888. 



Two specimens, 2£ inches long. 



Head 2f ; depth (from origin of dorsal to origin of anal) 1 ; Eye 

 3 in head ; scales 19 or 20-46-34 to 37. D. VIII, 21 ; A. Ill, 18 ; 

 P. I, 16. 



Owing to the differences between young and old individuals, I 

 give the following extended description, which is based on the 

 young : Dorsal with eight movable spines, in front of which is a 

 very rudimentary immovable one set at right angle to the first 

 movable spine (when elevated), and a sharp hidden spine directed 

 forward. Dorsal with a broad, shallow notch separating the two 

 portions. Anal much like soft dorsal but shorter. Ventral of 

 moderate length, its spine reaching about halfway to anal, the rays 

 almost to origin of anal, the filament of first anal ray about to tip of 

 first anal spine. The pectoral does not reach two-thirds of the dis- 

 tance to the caudal. Dorsal and anal scaly ; origin of anal under 

 last dorsal spines. Back in front of dorsal trenchant, five or six 

 rudimentary spines at occiput. Profile from eyes to dorsal almost 

 straight. Eye moderate, its distance from mouth equal to its diam- 

 eter. Opercle as wide as scapular plate, with the suborbital it is 

 two and a half times as high as wide. Lower limb of preopercle 

 with four or five spines, and one at the angle, but upper limb 

 smooth. Nostrils placed one directly in front of the other, the pos- 

 terior being at the margin of the eye. Mouth not projecting beyond 

 the general outline, tip of maxillary below posterior nostril. Teeth 

 of jaws small, imbedded in the gums. Superciliary ridge prominent, 

 finely serrated. Top of head grooved. Gill membranes grown to 

 the isthmus, but forming a fold across it. Lateral line considerably 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



arched, a supplemental line curving from above opercle to the rudi- 

 mentary spines at occiput. Scales cycloid except those on upper 

 side of head. Seventeen barbels on under side of head, symmetric- 

 ally arranged in one specimen, not quite so in the other, the ante- 

 rior eight being in two transverse rows, those of the second row 

 wider apart ; and the posterior eight in four pairs. Color, in alco- 

 hol, silvery, with two indistinct vertical bars on side. 



SCATOPHAG-ID.E3. 



Scatophagus argus (Gmelin). 



Chcztodon argus Gmelin, 1248. 



Scatophagus argus, Giinther, Cat., II, 58, I860- 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



SIGANIDiE. 



Siganus albopunctatus (Schlegel). 



Amphacanthus albopunctatus Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 128, 1847. 

 Teuthis albopunctata, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 318, 1861. 



Three specimens, 5 inches long. 



Head 4 ; depth 2f ; eye 2 1. D. I-XIII, 10 ; A. VII, 9. 



Maxillary to below posterior nostril. Origin of dorsal over gill 



opening. Free spine in front of dorsal sagittate. Dorsal spines after 



the first, placed alternately on the right and left sides ; the fourth 



the longest, equal to half depth of body at origin of dorsal. Spines 



of anal alternating like those of dorsal, third and fourth equally 



longest. Ventral spines reaching front of pubic bones. Pectoral a 



little longer than half greatest depth of body. Least depth of tail 



half its length, spreading at base of fin. Caudal forked, proportion 



of longest and shortest rays 3 : 2. Color, in alcohol, reddish -brown 



above, gradually changing to silvery on belly, brown spot above 



pectorals not very distinct, a more or less distinct narrow line of 



darker brown along back near base of dorsal fin, numerous small 



elliptical white or silvery spots along sides which are usually farther 



apart than the larger diameter. 



TRIACANTHIDJE. 



Triacanthus brevirostris Schlegel. 



? Batistes biaculeatus Bennett, Fish, Ceylon, pi. 15, 1841. 

 Triacanthus brevirostris, Schlegel, Faun. Jap., p. 294, pi. 129, f. 2, 1847. 

 Triacanthus nieuhofi, Bleeker, All. Ich., V, p. 292, 217, f. 3, 1865. 

 Triacanthus brevirostris, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, VIII, 209, 1870 ; Day, Fishes 

 India, 685, 1888. 



One specimen, 9 inches long. 



Head 3i, depth 2|, eye 3} ; D. IV-22 ; A. 18. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



MONACANTHIDJE. 



Monacanthus sulcatus Hollurd. 



Monacanthus sulcatus Hollard, Ann. des Sci. Nat., 4th Series, Zool,, torn. 

 2, p. 363, pi. 14, fig. 11; Giinther, Cat., VIII, 239. 



Three specimens, 3* to 4 inches long. 

 Head 3|, depth 2i, eye 3 ; D. 1-33 ; A. 33 ; C. 12. 

 Profile between the dorsal fins but little oblique, the origin of the 

 second dorsal being scarcely higher than the anterior fins. Upper 

 and lower profiles of head nearly straight, forming an angle of a 

 a very little over 60°. Dorsal spine over hinder part of orbit, its 

 length equal to the distance from end of snout (not tip of teeth) to 

 middle of eye, shorter than caudal, longer than the longest dorsal or 

 anal rays. It has two rows of strong barbs on the outer hinder 

 edges, about a dozen in each series, and an anterior double series of 

 small barbs. The rudiment of a second dorsal spine is covered by 

 the skin. Ventral spine short, half length of eye, movable, granu- 

 lose, with four barbs at tip, two pointing forward and two backward. 

 The pubic bone projects beyond the dermal flap, granulose, provided 

 with eight barbs, four at base pointing forward, and four at tip, the 

 two larger pointing forward and the two smaller backward. Dorsal 

 slightly anterior to anal. Rays of pectoral and posterior rays of 

 dorsal and anal webbed only for the basal third of their length, the 

 web on dorsal and anal becoming higher anteriorly. Caudal rays 

 very coarse. All rays of all fins more or less spinulose at base. Gill- 

 opening oblique, partly under hinder margin of eye, in front of 

 pectoral. Length of tail, measured from anal, f of its depth. Scales 

 very small, each with a single curved spine. Each spine curves 

 over and nearly touches the next succeeding, thus forming longitu- 

 dinal lines which often intersect. The scales of the ventral flap are 

 scattered and armed with three straight spinelets. Scales on head 

 and as far back as pectorals with several minute spinelets, a patch 

 in front of orbit with a single point directed forward. A rather in- 

 distinct line of scales, each with a pair of straight spinelets, extends 

 backward from the upper part of'the eye about half or two-thirds of 

 the way to the dorsal fin, then curves downward to or below the axis 

 of the body, and then extends to the caudal. Color in alcohol: a 

 dark spot about size of eye under anterior part of soft dorsal; proba- 

 bly a few other small spots on upper part of body ; edge of ventral 

 flap black. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



These specimens differ from the description of this species as given 

 by Gunther, Cat. Fishes, VIII, p. 246, in having barbs on the front 

 of the dorsal spine ; but these may be lost with age. 



TETRAODONTIDJE. 



Lagocephalus lunaris (Bloch & Schneider). 



Tetrodon lunaris Bloch & Schneider, 505, 1801 ; Gunther, Cat., VIII, 274, 

 1870; Day, Fishes of India, 701, pi. 182, fig.2, 1888. 



Tetraodon lunaris, Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 277, pi. 122, fig. 1, 

 1847. 



One specimen, 6 inches long. 



Head 3, depth Bi, eye 3i ; D. 11 ; A. 10. 



Lips covered with cirri. 



SCORPjENIDJE. 



1 Trachicephalus uranoscopus (Bloch & Schneider). 



Synanceia uranoscopa Bloch & Schneider, 195, 1801 (plate). 

 Polycauhis elongatus, Gunther, Cat. Fishes, II, 175, 1860. 

 Polycauhis uranoscofus, Day, Fishes of India, p. 164, pi. 37, fig. 6. 



Six specimens, 3 inches long. 



Head 4, depth 3f, eye 4* ; D. 10 to 13 ; A. 15. 



Eye equals snout, 1? in interorbital. Maxillary to below front 

 margin of eye. A blunt preorbital spine ; four blunt spines along 

 preopercle, two on opercle. Numerous irregular ridges on head. 

 Gill-opening continuous with a small, round opening above opercle, 

 which is closed by a dermal flap. Teeth weak, villiform, in bands. 

 All fius covered with skin. Dorsal beginning between anterior 

 edges of superior gill-openings, the web very full between the ante- 

 rior spines so that the anterior one may be raised perpendicular or 

 even pointed anteriorly; fin low, spines flexible. Pectorals rounded, 

 longer than head ; ventrals attached by entire inner edge to abdo- 

 men ; caudal nearly truncate, slightly rounded, tips of rays project- 

 ing. No scales. Mucous pores in a series of small papillae along 

 side of back, these light jn color and extending onto caudal; also a 

 series of pores along base of anal. Color (in alcohol), dark brown- 

 ish, with white dots, fins with black edges, in most specimens the 

 caudal has a white tip and a white blotch on the upper and lower 

 edges. 



Apistus alatus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Apistus alatus Cuv. & Val., IV, p. 392, 1829 ; Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, 

 Poiss., 49, 1847; Gunther, Cat., II, p. 131, 1860. 



Three specimens, 4 to 5? inches long. 



1 The generic name Trachicephalus may be retained instead of Polycaulus, 

 as the earlier Trachycephalus is differently spelled. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1897. 



Head 3, depth 31, eye 4 ; D. XV, 8 ; A. Ill, 6 ; P. 10-1 ; V. I, 5. 



Scales deciduous, about 55 or 60 in the lateral line, each with 

 three teeth. Lateral line high, extending backward from a ridge on 

 the side of the head. Upper rays of pectoral reach about to caudal, 

 one pectoral filament which reaches tip of ventral. Dorsal contin- 

 uous, but with a notch in front of soft portion. Preopercle with a 

 sharp spine above the angle, spines of opercle undeveloped. Pre- 

 orbital with three spines : one directly forward, short and rather 

 blunt ; one extending downward, small and sharp ; one extending 

 backward, large and strong, extending three-fourths of distance to 

 end of maxillary. Between the intermaxillaries is a notch without 

 teeth, the slightly projecting tip of the lower jaw fitting into it. 

 Teeth of vomer in two small oval patches connected anteriorly by a 

 narrow band of very small teeth. Slit behind last gill, small. Two 

 low sharp ridges on top of head behind eye, intraorbital space con- 

 cave, with a narrow groove in the middle. Opercle and suborbital 

 with small radiating ridges. Three barbels on lower jaw. Black 

 blotch of dorsal on ninth to twelfth spines, soft dorsal with dark 

 streaks ; pectoral and anal blackish ; a whitish blotch in front of 

 dorsal (in alcohol). 



Pterois volitans (Linnaeus). 



Gasterosteus volitans Linnaeus, Ed. XII, Syst. Nat-, 491. 



Pterois volita?is, Gunther, II, 122, 1869; Day, Fishes of India, 154. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



URANOSCOPIDJE. 



TJranoscopus asper Schlegel. 



Uranoscopus asper Schlegel, Fauna Japonica Poiss., 26, pi. 9, fig. 1, 1847; 

 Gunther, Cat., 11,228, I860. 



Recorded by Sauvage. ' 



PLATYCEPHALIDJE. 



Platycephalus spinosus Schlegel. 



Platycephalus spinosus Schlegel, Faun. Jap., Poiss., p. 40, pi. 16, f. 1 and 2, 

 1847 ; Gunther, Cat. Fishes, II, 190, 1860. 



Three specimens, 3£ inches long. 



Head 2f, depth 6£, eye 3} ; scales 38 ; D. I, VIII, 12 ; A. 12. 



Interorbital one-third of eye, concave, a dermal flap on eye. Top 

 of head with many spines symmetrically arranged, the ridges sharply 

 serrate, several small spines on top of snout, three or four in front of 

 eye. Three preopercular spines, the upper largest, about as long as 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



the lower opercular. Tip of maxillary under middle of eye. Ante- 

 rior part of lateral line spinous. Ventrals reach past origin of anal, 

 their ends black, but the tips white. Other fins with black spots, a 

 black blotch at base of caudal, lower half of pectoral black. (Color 

 notes from alcoholic specimens). 



Platycephalus asper Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Platycephalus asper Cuvier & Valenciennes, IV, 257, 1829 ; Schlegel, Fauna 

 Japonica, Poissons, p. 40, pi. 16, fig. 4, 5, 1847 ; Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 190, 

 1860. 



One specimen, 65 inches long. 



Head 2 i (3 in total), depth 6J, eye Bi ; scales 55; D. I, VIII, 

 11; A. 11. 



Snout broad and flat, scarcely shorter than eye; interorbital, 

 deeply grooved, narrow, Al in snout. Tip of maxillary under middle 

 of eye. Preopercle with three spines at angle, the upper much the 

 larger, about half as long as snout, the lower very short and blunt. 

 Opercle with two spines, widely separated, the lower larger, about 

 the size of the middle preopercular spine. Interopercle with a strong 

 spine directed forward. A small spine in front of eye, and a short, 

 heavy scapular spine. All ridges of head, excepting that of the 

 preopercle and opercle, finely serrate ; the opercular ridge with a 

 series of small spines on each side. Nostrils with short tubes. Ven- 

 tral fins reach origin of anal. All fins except anal and ventrals with 

 cross series of black spots, lower half of pectorals almost entirely 

 black, with white tips. Anal white, ventrals with black tips. 



Platycephalus insidiator (Forskal). 



Coitus insidiator Forskal, 25, 1775. 



Platycephalus insidiator, Giinther, Cat., II, 1860 ; Day, Fishes of India, 276. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



TRIGLIDJE. 



Lepidotrigla burgeri (Sehlegel). 



Trigla burgeri Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., p. 35, pi. 14, figs. 1 and 2, 

 1847 ; Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 198, 1860. 



One specimen, 5i inches long. 



Head 3, depth 4| ; lat. 1. 60 ; D. VIII, 16 ; A. 16. 



Teeth of vomer very weak ; triangular spine of preorbital sharp- 

 pointed with finely serrate edges, as long as depth of eye. Inter- 

 orbital broadly and deeply grooved. Opercle with a broad backward 

 process, the end of which is emarginate and the corners sharp. 

 Opercle with a broad dermal margin. Gill-opening extending along 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



upper side of opercle. Scapular plate with a strong, sharp spine, 

 about as long as preopercular spine. A broad, flat spine on each 

 side of occiput reaching past origin of dorsal. Plates and spines of 

 head and anterior edge of spine rough granulose. A series of spin- 

 ous plates on each side of dorsal. All dorsal spines except the first 

 with their ends about even when depressed. Scales of lateral line 

 with four or five small radiating keels, these gradually diminishing 

 to one posteriorly. Pectorals evidently black. 



GOBIIDJE. 



Bostryohus sinensis Lacepede. 



Bostrychus sinensis Lacepede, III, 141, pi. 14, fig. 2, 1802. 

 Eleotris sinensis, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 127, 1861. 



Bostrichthys sinensis, Bleeker, Gobioides, Archiv. Neer. , 1874, p. 301 ; Day, 

 Fishes of India, p. 309, pi. 65, fig. 4, 1888. 



Two specimens, 6 inches long. 



Head Si, depth 51, eye 6i ; D. VI-I, 11 ; A. I, 9. 



Prionobutis serrifrons Rutter. New species. 



One specimen, 3 inches long; No. 4,995, Leland Stanford Junior 

 University Museum. 



Differs from Prionobutis caperahis Cantor in having a nearly 

 horizontal mouth and in having two series of serrse on snout in front 

 of eye. 



Head 3J-, depth 4, eye 4i ; D. VI-I, 9 ; A. I, 8 ; scales 28-9. 



Head rather pointed, bony crests prominent, orbital rims above 

 and posteriorly finely denticulated, a row of minute vertical teeth 

 above nostrils and one on each side of area occupied by premaxillary 

 processes on top of snout. A mucous canal with an opening at end 

 of snout and another above posterior nostril lies between the series 

 of spines on each side of snout ; this canal continues backward 

 above eyes, the two communicating in interorbital areas, thence 

 backward behind eye and along upper margin of opercle, opening 

 above gill-opening. There is also a tube along the entire margin of 

 preopercle, and continued forward, with many small openings along 

 under side of mandible to symphysis. Mouth but little oblique, 

 maxillary to below anterior third of eye ; teeth in a band in each 

 jaw, the outer series a little enlarged. Back elevated, highest at 

 middle of spinous dorsal. Soft dorsal high, the posterior and longest 

 rays If in head, the anal similar. Pectoral broad at base, its length 

 H in head ; ventrals 1 \ in head ; caudal 1 \ in head. Least depth of 

 caudal peduncle less than A its length, which is H in head. Pale 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



brown, darker brown shadings on sides ; spinous dorsal and ventrals 

 nearly uniform dusky ; soft dorsal and anal dusky with pale blotches 

 across middle ; caudal pale with dusky cross bars ; pectoral slightly 

 dusky, a black blotch near base, below middle rays, a white line at 

 base, this broken toward lower end, a narrow white line descending 

 irregularly from upper side of fin to and along outer side of black 

 spot. 



Triaenophoriohthys trigonocephalus Gill. 



Trianophorichthys trigonocephalus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1859, 

 195; Gunther, Cat., Ill, 89, 1861. 



One specimen, 4 inches long. 



Trisenopogon barbatus (Gunther). 



Triienophorichthys barbatus Gunther, Cat., Ill, 90, 1861. 

 Trianopogon barbatus, Bleeker, Syst. Nat. Gob. Arch. Neer., IX, 312. 



Several specimens, the longest 4 inches long. 



Gobius cyanomos Bleeker. 



Gobius cyanomos Bleeker, Verhand. Batav. Genootsch., XXII, Bleenn. en 

 Gob. 25 (Gunther) ; Gunther, Cat., Ill, 39. 



Several specimens, 4 in. long. 



Gobius ommaturus Richardson. 



Gobius om?naturus Richardson, Voy. Sulph., Fishes, 146, pi. 55, figs. 1-4 ; 

 Gunther, Cat., Ill, 77. 



Three specimens, 4 inches long. 



Gobius giurus Buchanan Hamilton. 



Gobius giurus Buch. Ham., Fishes Ganges, 51, pi. 33, fig. 15, 1822; Gunther, 

 Cat. Fishes, HI, 21, 1861; Day, Fishes of India, 294, pi. LXVI, fig. 1, 1888. 



Several specimens, the largest 6 in. long. 



Head 3£, depth 5J, eye 5£ to 6 ; scales 32 ; D. VI-I, 9 ; A. I, 8. 

 Gobius hasta Bloch. 



Gobius hasta Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss., 144, pi. 75, fig. 1, 1847; 

 Gunther, Cat., Ill, 78, 1861. 



Recorded by Sauvage. ' 



Gobius albopunctatus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Gobius albopunctatus Cuv. & Val., XII, 57, 1837 ; Gunther, Cat. Ill, 25, 

 1861; Day, Fishes of India, 294, pi. 63, fig. 7, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 

 Gobius longicauda Steindacher. 



Gobmslongicauda Steindachner, S. B. Akad.Wien. C II, 1893, 234 (Swatow). 

 Gobius petersenii Steindachner. 



Gobius petersenii Steindachner, S. B. Akad. Wien. Oil, 1893, 234 (Swatow). 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Gobius giurinus Rutter. New species. 



A single specimen, 3 in. long, No. 4,990, Leland Stanford, Jr. 

 University Museum, differs from Gobius giurus in the longer and 

 more depressed snout, horizontal mouth with lower jaw not promi- 

 nent, and larger scales in front of dorsal. 



Head 3i, depth 6, eye 4 ; D. VI-9 ; A. 9 ; scales 28-9. 



Body long, compressed posteriorly ; head depressed, somewhat 

 wider than high ; profile evenly curved ; eyes very close together, 

 the interorbital not so wide as pupil ; snout a little over i of head ; 

 jaws even, the premaxillary very broad on top of snout, its width 

 half length of eye; mouth nearly horizontal, teeth all small, two 

 rows in sides of upper jaw, one row in side of lower jaw, in a band 

 in front of each, broader in lower, no canines ; maxillary to below 

 anterior margin of eye ; head scaleless, but few scales on breast, 10 

 scales in front of dorsal ; spinous dorsal as high as body, soft dorsal 

 of same height, distance of last dorsal from caudal equals that of 

 first dorsal from middle of eye ; pectorals reach past ventrals, 1| in 

 head; ventrals 1 h in head ; anal not so high as soft dorsal. Color, in 

 alcohol, pale with five indistinct brown cross bars, a brown blotch at 

 upper base of pectoral, a faint one at base of caudal, soft dorsal 

 with numerous round dusky spots, caudal and anal minutely dusted 

 with black, pectorals and ventrals colorless. 



Chseturicb.tb.ys stigmatias Richardson. 



Chcetuiichthys stigmatias Richardson, Voy. Sulph. Fishes, p. 55, pi. 35, fig. 

 1-3, 1844, (Southern Pacific). 



Gobius stigmatias, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 78, 1861. 



Three specimens, 4? in. long, 1 $ (?) and 2 9 . 



Head 4 and 41, depth Gh and 7i, eye 6 ; D. VIII-I, 22-23 ; A. 

 19 to 21 ; scales (deciduous) about 46. 



The specimens differ somewhat, and the following description is 

 based on the females. 



Body elongate, posteriorly somewhat compressed ; head entirely 

 scaly. Mouth large, slightly oblique, lower jaw projecting ; maxil- 

 lary to vertical from anterior margin of eye. Teeth slender, 

 pointed, in two single and separated rows in each jaw, the outer 

 row large. Several barbels under chin. Anterior dorsal about as 

 high as body. Pectoral nearly as long as head. Caudal acumin- 

 ate, about 1? times length of head. A dark blotch on posterior 

 part of spinous dorsal, soft dorsal dusky, caudal with dusky margin. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



The other specimen, which seems to have been better fed, has the 

 head a little broader and the eyes more nearly vertical, and smaller 

 teeth in the outer row. 



Apooryptes serperaster Richardson. 



Apocryptes serperaster Richardson, Ichth. China, 206 {Gilnther) ; Giinther, 

 Cat. Fishes, III, 82, 1861 ; Day, Fishes of India, p. 300, pi. LXV, fig. 2. 



Four specimens, 5i in. long. 



Head 5, depth 7*, eye 5i ; D. VI-28. 



Boleophthalmus pectinirostris (Gmelin). 



Gobius pectinirostris Gmelin, p. 1200, 1774. 

 Apocryptes pectinirostris, Cuvier & Valenciennes, 12, 150, 1837. 

 Boleophthalmus pectinirostris, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 102, 1861 ; Day, 

 Fishes of India, 308, 1888. 



Several specimens, 4 in. long. 



Head 31, depth 6, eye 6 ; D. V-25 ; A. 25. 



Gobioides petersenii Steindachner. 



Gobioides petersenii Steindachner, S. B. Akad. Wien. C II, 1893, 235 (Swa- 

 tow). 



Trypauchen vagina (Bloch & Schneider). 



Gobius vagina Bloch & Schneider, 73, 1801. 



Trypauchen vagina, Cuv. & Val., XII, 153, 1837 ; Giinther, Cat. Fishes, III, 

 137, 1861 ; Day, Fishes of India, 320, pi. 68, fig. 2, 1888. 



Several specimens, 6 in. long. 

 Head 6, depth 8 i, eye about 8. 

 A good description by Day, 1. c. 



CEPOLIDJE. 



Cepola abbreviata Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Cepola abbreviata Cuv. & Val., X, 403, 1835. 



Cepola abbreviata, Giinther, Cat., Ill, 488, 1861 ; Day, Fishes of India, 324, 

 pi. 68, fig. 4, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



SILLAGINTDiE. 



Sillago sibama (Forskal). 



Atherina sihama Forskal, 70, 1775. 



Sillago sihama, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, II, 243, 1860; Day, Fishes of India, 

 p. 265, pi. LVII, fig, 3, 1888. 



Four specimens, 5 inches long. 



Head 3| ; depth 6i ; eye 31 ; scales 66. D. XI-I, 21 ; A. I, 22. 



PLEURONECTID^. 



Paralichtbys arsius (Buchanan Hamilton). 



Pleuronectes arsius Buch. Ham., Fish Gang., 128 {Giinther). 



Rhombus lentiginosus , Richardson, Ann. &Mag. Nat. Hist., XI, 1843, p. 495. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Pseudorhombus russellii, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, IV, p. 424, 1862. 

 Pseudorhombus arsius, Giinther, 1. c, p. 426 ; Day, Fishes of India, p. 423, 

 1888. 



One specimen, 7 inches long, agrees with Richardson's minute de- 

 scription of Rhombus lentiginosus, except that the interoperculum 

 has only the lower side curved instead of being oval, and the rays of 

 the pectorals are without scales. 



Head 3f ; depth 21 ; eye 5^; scales 84. D. 81 ; A. 61 ; P. 1, 11 ; 

 V. 7. 



Pleuronichthys cornutus (Schlegel). 



Platessa cornuta Schlegel, Fauna Japonica, Poiss , 179, pi. 92, fig. 1, 1847. 

 Parophrys cornuta, Giinther, Cat. Fishes, IV, 455, 1862. 



One specimen, 5 \ inches long. 



Head U ; depth 2 ; eye 3. D. 75 ; A. 54. 



The upper prominence of the lower eye is very large, forming a 

 spine as large as the one at the end of the ridge between the eyes ; 

 the prominences of upper eye very indistinct. Lower eye more an- 

 terior. Lateral line scarcely curved. Dorsal begins on blind side, 

 as far forward as anterior margin of pupil. Distance of dorsal from 

 caudal is one-half of eye. Pectoral one-half of head, twice length 

 of ventral. Pectoral on blind side, dark. 



SOLEID-ffil. 



Cynoglossus lineolatus Steindachuer. 



Cynoglossus limolatus Steindachner, Sitzb. Akad. Wiss. Wien., LV, April, 

 1867 (Hong Kong). 



One specimen, Z\ inches long. 



Head \\ ; depth 4. D. 103 ; A. 77 ; scales (behind head) 83, 

 transverse 14+14. 



Two nostrils, both tubular, tube of upper quite short. Upper 

 nostril situated at end of interorbital space, under upper eye; the 

 other nostril on level of lower margins of lower eye and in front of 

 vertical from anterior margin of upper eye. Eyes very small, diam- 

 eter less than length of two scales in middle of body. Anterior 

 margin of lower eye below middle of upper ; interorbital space 

 linear, without scales. One row of scales between upper eye and 

 lateral line, lower eye and maxillary adjacent. Snout in front of 

 upper eye \ of head. Cleft of mouth extending well behind eye, 

 curved downward posteriorly, a half longer on eyed side. Pectorals 

 and right ventral wanting, left ventcal with five rays. Two lateral 

 lines on left side, 13 rows of scales between them, the lower slightly 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



decurved, extending through middle of body, the upper on fourth 

 row of scales from dorsal, the lower beginning at tip of snout, the 

 upper behind eye, both extending to caudal. No lateral line on 

 right side. Scales adherent, ctenoid on both sides, smaller ante- 

 riorly and near the fins. In alcohol uniform light yellowish-brown, 

 the five longitudinal lines formed by the scale striation. 



This species differs from other species of the genus in the absence 

 of any lateral line on the blind side, and may prove to be different 

 from lineolatus, which is described as having about ten fewer rays" 

 in the dorsal and anal. 



Cynoglossus melampe talus (Richardson). 



Plagusia melampeiala .Richardson, Ich. China, 281 ( Gunther). 



Cynoglossus mclampetalus Gunther, Cat., IV, 496, 1862. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Cynoglossus trigrammus Giinthcr. Giinther, Cat. IV, p. 494, 1862. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



Cynoglossus macrolepidotus (Bleeker). 



Plagusia macrolepidota Bleeker, Verhand. Batav. Genootsch., XXIV, Pleu- 

 ron, p. 25, 1852 ( Giinther). 



Cynoglossus ?nacrolepidotus. Gunther, Cat. Fishes, IV, 496, 1862; Day, Fishes 

 of India, p. 434, pi. 96, fig. 3, 1888. 



Three specimens, 3? to 4? inches long. 



Head 4* ; depth 4* ; lat. 1. (behind head) about 55. D. 115; A 

 80. 



Two nostrils, one at anterior end of interorbital space, the other 

 tubular, near mouth, above tip of lower jaw. Angle of mouth (on 

 eyed side) behind lower eye, the hinder margin of which is in mid- 

 dle of head. Front of lower eye under middle of upper, interorbital 

 space I width of eye. Horizontal cleft of mouth nearly twice as 

 long on left side as on right. Hook of upper jaw somewhat varia- 

 ble in the three specimens, but not extending to vertical from ante- 

 rior margin of upper eye. Pectorals none. Right ventral with 

 four rays on side of body ; left ventral continuous with anal. Vent 

 on right side above left ventral. Two lateral lines on left side, 

 nine rows of scales between them (above gill-opening) ; the lower 

 through middle of body, nearly straight, slightly arched above gill- 

 opening ; the upper along fourth row of scales (in middle of body) 

 from dorsal, both extending from tip of snout to caudal. Only one 

 lateral line on right side, through middle of body. Scales partly or 

 entirely deciduous, smaller anteriorly and near the fins, those of 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



left side ctenoid, those of right side smooth, apparently larger. In 

 alcohol, colorless, except opercles, which have a dark tinge owing 

 to the black lining membrane of the gill-cavity. 



Synaptura quagga Kaup. 



? j/Esopia quagga Kaup, Wiegm. Arch., 1858, 9S {Giinther). 

 Synaptura quagga, Giinther, Cat., IV, 485, 1862. 



Two specimens, 3J inches long. 



Head 5 ; depth 2* ; eye 4h ; lat. 1. 75. D. 66 ; A. 56 ; P. about 

 10 ; V. 4. 



Pectorals rudimentary, placed at edge of gill-opening, upper edge 

 of fins continuous with membrane at margin of opercles, thus form- 

 ing short breathing tubes. Ventrals separate, slightly longer than 

 pectorals. Vertical fins continuous, scaled. Scales not closely im- 

 bricated, each with 7 or 8 long spinules, lateral line straight. Upper 

 edge of gill-opening slightly lower than tip of maxillary. Cleft of 

 mouth horizontal in front of lower eye, abruptly turned downward 

 at its anterior margin. Tip of maxillary below middle of lower eye. 

 Upper eye about & of its length anterior to lower. No tube at nos- 

 tril on blind side, that on eyed side about half as long as eye, its tip 

 reaching front margin of eye. Color, in alcohol : Several narrow, 

 dark cross-bars on head. Behind head, colors regularly arranged in 

 cross-bands as follows : (a) A white band about four scales wide ; 

 (b) a dark band five scales wide, a light line running through its 

 middle ; (c) a white band three scales wide ; then (b), (a), (b), (c), 

 etc., repeated. Base of caudal white, tip black. 



Synaptura pan (Buchanan Hamilton). 



Pleuronectes pan Buch. Ham., Fishes Gang., 139, pi. 24, fig. 42 {Giinther). 

 Synaptura pan, Giinther, Cat., IV, 481, 1862; Day, Fishes of India, 429, 

 pi. 93, fig. 3, 1888. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 



LOPHIIDJE. 



Lophiomus setigerus (Vahl). 



Lophius setigerus Vahl, Skrivt. af Naturh., IV, 214, Cab. 3, figs. 5, 6 

 (Giinther),- Giinther, Cat., Ill, 180, 1861. 



Recorded by Sauvage. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



A COLLECTION OF FISHES MADE BY JOSEPH SEED ROBERTS IN 



KINGSTON, JAMAICA. 



BY DAVID STARR JORDAN AND CLOUDSLEY RUTTER. 



Rev. Joseph Seed Roberts, an English, missionary resident in 

 Kingston, Jamaica, has been, for the past two years, engaged in the 

 collection of the fishes of that region. Through the generous inter- 

 est of Mr. Timothy Hopkins, of Menlo Park, California, a large 

 series of these fishes has been sent to the Museum of Leland Stan- 

 ford, Jr. University. This collection was very carefully made, and 

 reflects great credit on the intelligent interest of Mr. Roberts. The 

 present paper consists of an annotated list of these species, the ver- 

 nacular names recorded being those in use by the Jamaica fisher- 

 men, as given by Mr. Roberts. 



The following species are described as new : 



Rhinobatus stellio, Stolephorus robertsi, Stolephorus astilbe, Sipho- 

 stoma robertsi, Chloroscombus ectenurus, Myeteroperca hopkinsi, 

 Scarus emblemed icus, Eupomacentrus diencceus, Chilomycterus antil- 

 larum. 



GINGLYMOSTOMATIDJE. 



1. Ginglymostoma cirratum (Gmelin). Spotted Nurse Shark. 



Squalus cirratus Gmelin, Syst. Nat., I, 1,492, 1788 (American Seas). 

 Ginglymostoma cirratum, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 26. 



GALEIDJE. 



2. Scoliodon terrae-novae (Richardson). Tiger Shark. 



Squahcs (Carc/iarias) terrce-novcz Richardson, Fauna Bor. Amer., Ill, 289, 

 1836. 



Scoliodon terrce-novm , Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 43. 



SPHYKNTDJE. 



3. Sphyrna zygaena (Linnajiis). 



Squalus zygcend Linnteus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 234, 1758 (Europe, America). 

 Sphyrna zygcena, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 45. 



RHINOBATIDJE. 



4. Rhinobatus stellio Jordan & Rutter, new species. 



Disk triangular, its greatest width a little less than half the dis- 

 tance from snout to dorsal, and equal to distance from snout to a 

 line connecting points of greatest width. Sides of disk straight, tip 

 of snout rounded, posterior point of pectoral more broadly rounded 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



than snout. Length of snout equal to, or a little less than, half 

 greatest width of disk, equal to distance between outer points of an- 

 terior gill-openings ; interorbital width 4 to 4f- in snout, a little less 

 than length of e) T es and spiracle, but about equal to length of nos- 

 tril ; internasal width equal to orbit; spiracle one-third length of 

 eye, a prominent curved papilla and a slight ridge in its posterior 

 side. Anterior nasal valve with a long slender flap extending 

 across the nostril ; three broad flaps on posterior side. Rostral 

 ridges separate for their entire length, width between them at base 

 equal to width of spiracle. Mouth nearly straight, its width 2| in 

 its distance from snout and equal to distance between inner folds on 

 posterior side of spiracle. Eye 4£ to 51 in snout. Width of body 

 at axil of pectorals 1 1 in snout. Dorsal fins about equal in size and 

 shape, the distance between them 2* times base of first, the distance 

 between the origins of the two fins equal to snout and about equal to 

 distance from axil of pectoral to origin of first dorsal. Sides of tail 

 with a conspicuous fold. Skin above with a fine uniform shagreen, 

 nearly smooth below except near margins of the disk. A series of 

 very small spines above eye and spiracle, one or two minute spines 

 on shoulder girdle ; the largest spines of body situated along median 

 line of back, extending beyond first dorsal; no spine on snout, but 

 in two of the three specimens there is a pair of minute spineless 

 plates near its tip. Color : dusky brown above, about seven faint 

 dusky bars on the side of the tail behind first dorsal, uniform pale 

 below ; large translucent areas on each side of the snout. Back 

 with numerous small light spots, much smaller than pupil, arranged 

 symmetrically but not in the same pattern on the three type speci- 

 mens ; two or three pairs between eyes, a few pairs behind eyes near 

 median line, some below eye, where they approach nearest the mar- 

 gin of disk, usually one or two on median line, sometimes two are 

 confluent, about 40 or 45 pairs in all. Axil of pectoral in one 

 specimen with a dusky blotch on upper side. 



This species is most nearly related to Rhinobatus glaucostigma of 

 the Pacific coast, differing in having a narrow interorbital, narrower 

 body behind disk, and in the very different color. 



The description is based on three specimens, each about 20 inches 



long. 



NARCOBATIDJE. 



5. Narcine brasiliensis (Olfers). Trembler. 



Torpedo brasilicnsis Olfers, Torpedo, 19, 1831 (Brazil). 



Narcine brasiliensis, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 77. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



DASYATIDJE. 



6. TJrolophus jamaicensis (Cuvier). Maid. 



Raja jamaicensis Cuvier, Regne Animal, II, 137, 1817 (Jamaica). 

 Urolophus jamaicensis, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 80. 



Three specimens about 9 in. long. Asperities confined to middle 

 of disk, a few along upper edge of caudal fin. 



7. Dasyatis hastata (De Kay). Kit. 



Trygon hastata De Kay, N. Y. Fauna: Fishes, 373, pi. 65, fig. 214, ?, 1842, 

 (Rhode Island). 

 Dasyatis hastata, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 83. 



The collection contains also the tail of another species of Dasyatis 

 which we cannot identify. 



MYLIOBATIDJE. 



8. Aetobatus narinari (Euphrasen). Whippley. 



Raia narinari Euphrasen, Vet. Ak. Nya Handl., 1790, XI, 217 (Brazil). 

 Aetobatits narinari, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 88. 



ANGUILLID^. 



9. Anguilla chrysypa Rafinesque. 



Angnilla chrysypa Rafinesque, Amer. Month. Mag. & Crit. Rev., 1817, 120 

 (Long Island ) ; Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 318. 



MlTR^NESOCIDiE. 



10. Muraenesox savanna (Cuvier). 



Muroina savanna Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ed. 2, Vol. 2, 350, 1829 (Martin- 

 ique). 



Murcenesox savanna, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 360. 



OPHICHTHYIDJE. 



12. Ophichthus gomesii (Castelnau). Sea Eel; Whip Snake Eel.. 



Ophisurus gomesii Castelnau, Anim. Amer. Sud., 84, fig. 2, 1855 (Rio 

 Janeiro). 



Ophichthus gomesii, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 384. 



MURJENIDJE. 



13. Lycodontis moringa (Cuvier). 



Murcena moringa Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. II, 1829 (Bahamas, after 

 Catesby). 



Lycondontis moringa, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 395. 



The dark brown blotches nearly everywhere confluent and marked 

 with small black dots ; the white ground appearing as more or less 

 disconnected reticulations, merely small blotches on tail, but con- 

 fluent on lower jaw and throat where the brown spots are much 

 smaller than the interspaces ; edge of dorsal and anal white poste- 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



riorly ; narrow black lines radiating forward from gill-opening and 

 backward from throat ; mouth inside pale above, spotted below an 

 teriorly, black posteriorly ; pores of lower jaw in white blotches. 



14. Lycodontis funebris (Ranzani). 



Gymnothorax funebris Ranzani, Nov. Comm. Ac Sc Inst. Bonon., IV, 76, 

 1840 (Brazil). 



Lycodontis funebris, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 396. 



According to Mr. Roberts, the large specimen here noted was 

 " bronze green " in life. 



15. Lycodontis ocellatus (Agassiz). Murray Eel. 



Gymnothorax ocellatus Agassiz, Pise. Brasil., 91, pi. 506, 1828 (Brazil). 

 Lycodontis ocellatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 399. 



ELOPIDJE. 



16. Tarpon atlanticus (Cuvier & Valenciennes). Tarpum. 



Megalops atlanticus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XIX, 1846, 

 398 (Gaudeloupe). 



Tarpon atla?iticus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 409. 



17. Elops saurus (Linnajus). John Mariggle ; Bony Fish. 



Elops saurus Linnseus, Syst. Nat. Ed. XII, 518, 1766 (Carolina) ; Jordan & 

 Evermann, Fishes of North America, 410. 



" Sometimes weigh 20 lbs." 



ALBULIDJE. 



18. Albula vulpes (Linnaeus). Bone Fish. 



Esovvtdpes Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 313, 1758 (Bahamas). 

 Albula vulpes, Jordan & Exermann, Fishes of North America, 411. 



CLUPEIDJE. 



19. Clupanodon pseudohispanicus (Poey). Bang. 



Sai-dinia pseudohispanica Poey, Memorias, II, 1860, 311. 

 Clupanodon pseudohispanicus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North Amer- 

 ica, 423. 



20. Sardinella macrophthalma (Ranzani). 



Clupea macrophthalma Ranzani, Nov. Comm. Ac Sc. Bonon., V, 320, 1842, 

 Brazil. 



Sardinella macrophthalma, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 431. 



The depth in the specimens here noted varies from 3 to 3f . 



21. Opisthonema oglinum (Le Sueur). 



Mtgalops oglina Le Sueur, Jour. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., I, 1817, 359 (Newport, 

 Rhode Island). 



Opisthonema oglinum, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 432. 



Dorsal filament much longer than head, reaching base "of caudal. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



ENGRAULIDID^J. 



22. Stolephorus perfasciatus (Poey). 



Engraulis perfasciatus Poey, Meraorias, II, 1860, 313 (Cuba), 



Stolephorus perfasciatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 441. 



23. Stolephorus brownii (Ginelin). Anchovy Fry. 



Atherina brownii Gmelin, Syst. Nat., 1397, 1788 (Jamaica). 



Stolephorus b>ownii, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 443. 



24. Stolephorus robertsi Jordan & Rutter, new species. 



Head 3 in length ; depth 4 ; dorsal 14 ; anal 23 ; scales about 35 ; 

 eye 4 in head ; pectoral 2i ; base of anal If ; caudal 1}. 



Body deep, strongly compressed, abdomen compressed to an edge. 

 Head large, compressed, the snout rather sharp, projecting beyond 

 lower jaw, a little shorter than eye ; cheek triangular ; opercle large ; 

 distance from lower angle of cheek to edge of opercle equal to dis- 

 tance from same point to posterior edge of eye ; maxillary short, not 

 reaching root of mandible, its end rounded ; lower jaw not reaching 

 beyond anterior edge of orbit ; gill-rakers longer than eye, as long 

 as orbit; origin of dorsal midway between base of caudal and front 

 of eye ; scales caducous. 



Color translucent ; head silvery, punctulate above ; a silvery 

 lateral band nearly as broad as eye ; caudal with dark points, other 

 fins colorless. 



This species seems to be related to Stolephorus opercularis, but the 

 lateral band is distinct and the opercle is shorter. 



One specimen in the collection about 2 inches in length, No. 

 4,853, L. S. Jr. Univ. Mus. 



25. Stolephorus astilbe Jordan & Rutter, new species. 



Head 4i in length ; depth 4? to 5 ; dorsal 12 ; anal 19 to 22 ; 

 eye 3 i in head ; pectoral 1| ; base of anal 1|. 



Body rather elongate, not greatly compressed ; edge of belly 

 moderately sharp. Head sharp ; snout projecting beyond lower 

 jaw, shorter than diameter of eye ; tip of lower jaw reaching a little 

 past anterior edge of orbit ; maxillary reaching gill opening, its end 

 tapering to a sharp point ; eye longer than snout, nearly 2 in post- 

 orbital part of head ; gill-rakers two-thirds eye ; a slight keel on top 

 of head. 



Origin of dorsal midway between base of caudal and eye ; scales 

 caducous. 



Translucent, head silvery ; sides without lateral band, a dark spot 

 on top of head, back with black points. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



This species is similar to Stolephorus brownii, but more slender, 

 head shorter, and lateral silvery stripe wanting. 



Numerous specimens from 1£ to 3 inches in length. No. 4,854, L. 

 S., Jr. Univ. Mus. 



26. Stolephorus productus (Poey). Grubber Broad Head. 



Engraulis productus Poey, Eepertorio, I, 380, 1866 ; Giinther, Cat., VII, 

 338. 



Head 3| in length; depth 3?; dorsal 13; anal 32; scales 35; 

 eye 4 in head ; pectoral If ; caudal 1 ; base of anal £ longer than 

 head. 



Body moderately elongate, compressed ; ventral outline curved 

 more than dorsal; snout sbort, about half eye; lower jaw pointed, 

 its tip reaching a little past front of eye; maxillary reaching base 

 of lower jaw, about to edge of preopercle, pointed behind; gill-rak- 

 ers as long as orbit. Pectorals scarcely reaching to ventrals, which 

 reach half way from their base to vent ; origin of dorsal midway be- 

 tween base of caudai and middle of eye. 



Color silvery, slightly darker above, fins colorless. 



This species resembles Anchovia macro lepidota of the Pacific. It 

 differs in the more slender body ; the curve of ventral outline is not 

 so great, maxillary shorter; median scales in front of dorsal not 

 forming scutes ; head shorter ; no dark longitudinal stripe. This 

 species is between Stolephorus and Anchovia, and it makes the dis- 

 tinction of the latter genus very doubtful. 



Three specimens, each about 7 inches in length. 



27. Cetengraulis edentulus (Cuvier). Trapong Fry. 



Engraulis edentulus Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ed. 2, II, 323, 1829 (Jamaica, 

 after Sloane). 



Cetengraulis edentulus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 450. 



SYNODONTIDJE. 



28. Trachinocephalus myops (Forster). 



Salmo myops Forster MS., Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 421, 1801 (St. 

 Helena). 



Trachinocephalus myops, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 533. 



29. Synodus fcetens (Linmeus). Macca Robin ; Round Robin. 



Salmo fastens Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 513, 1766 (South Carolina). 

 Synodus fo:tens, Jordan <s Evermann, Fishes of North America, 538. 



Several specimens, 8->- to 16 in. long. Some nearly uniform light 

 olive, others very dark with a series of dark blotches along side. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



PCECILIIDJE. 



30. Gambusia punctulata Poey. 



Gambusia pu/ir/u la fa ~Poey, Memorias, I, 386, 1855 (Cuba); Jordan & Ever- 

 mann, Irishes of North America, 680. 



The anal fin has 9 rays, 10 or 11 counting rudiments, the oblique 



bar under the eye is indistinct in some specimens and wanting in 



others. 



ESOCTDJE. 



31. Tylosurus raphidonia (Ranzani). Guard Fish. 



Belone raphidonia Ranzani, Nov. Comm. Ac Nat. Sci. Inst. Bonon., V, 

 1842, 359, pi. 37, fig. 1 (Brazil). 



Tyloswus raphidonia, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 716. 



HEMIRAMPHIDJE. 



32. Hyporhamphus unifasciatus (Ranzani 1 ). Balahoo Piper; Half Beak. 



Hemirhampkus uni fascia/us Ranzani, Nov. Comm. Ac Sci. Bonon., V, 1842, 

 526 (Brazil). 



Hyporhamphus unifasciatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 720. 



Tip of lower jaw scarlet. 



33. Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linna?us). 



Esox brasiliensis Linnaeus, Syst Nat., Ed. X, 314, 1758 (Jamaica). 

 Hemiramphus brasiliensis, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 723. 



AULOSTOMIDJE. 



34. Aulostomus maculatus Valenciennes. 



Aulostomus maculatus Valenciennes, in Cuvier, Illustr. Poissons, pi. 92, fig. 

 2, about 1845 ; Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 754. 



SYNGNATHID.EJ. 



35. Siphostoma rousseau (Kaup). 



Syngnathus tousseau Kaup, Lophobranchs, 40, 1856 (Martinique). 

 Siphostoma rousseau, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 767. 



36. Siphostoma robertsi Jordap & Rutter, new species. 



Head 7 £ in length ; depth 2| in head ; eye 5§ in head ; dorsal 20, 

 on -4- 4 rings ; segments 17 + 32. Snout 2 J in head, with a slight 

 keel ; a slight keel on top of head, another above opercle, and one 

 on anterior side of opercle, but not reaching posterior edge; shields 

 without spines ; lateral keel ending on last body segment ; ventral 

 keel on next to last ; upper body keel extending nearly to end of 

 dorsal fin, upper caudal beginning below it on first caudal segment ; 

 all ridges of body very prominent, the tail with four plane ridges; 

 caudal pouch 3 in total length. Color mottled brown, paler below, 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



the membrane connecting the segments pale bluish, forming cross 

 stripes which are especially marked on the egg pouch ; prominent 

 pale cross bars on lower side of head ; dorsal colorless, except that the 

 base is finely dusted with brown ; caudal thickly dusted with brown, 

 except near base. 



This species is most closely related- to Siphostoma jonesi, differing 

 in having a shorter dorsal with more rays, and in the lateral keel 

 ending distinct from lower caudal keel. 



One specimen, 4* long. No. 4,988, L. S. Jr. Univ. Mus. 



37. Hippocampus punctulatus Guichenot. Sea Horse. 



Hippocampus punctulatus Guichenot in Sagra, Cuba Poiss., 174, pi, 5, fig. 2, 

 1850 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 778. 



ATHERINID^. 



38. Atherina laticeps Poey. 



Atherina laticeps Poey, Memorias, II, 265, 1861 (Havana). 



Atherina laticeps, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 790. 



MUGILIDiE. 



39. Mugil curema Cuvier & Valenciennes. Red and Black Eye Mullet. 



Mugil curema Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., XI, 87, 1836 (Bra- 

 zil; Martinique; Cuba); Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 813. 



Very dark above, becoming silvery below ; lines along rows of 

 scales show in reflected light ; dorsal and caudal very heavily punc- 

 tate, almost black at tip. 



40. Agonostomus monticola (Bancroft). 



Mugil monticola Bancroft, in Griffith's Edition, Cuvier's Animal Kingdom, 

 Fishes, 367, pi. 36, 1836 (Jamaica). 



Agonostomus monticola, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 819 



41. Sphyrsena barracuda (Walbaum). Short Barracuta. 



Esox baracuda Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, III, 1792, 94, after Barracuda ot 

 Catesby. 



Sphyxzna picuda, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 823. 



The specific name barracuda, first given in binomial form by Wal- 

 baum, has priority over pieuda. 



42. Sphyraena guachancho Cuvier & Valenciennes. Long Barracuta. 



Sphynzna guachancho Cuvier & Valenciennes, III, 342, 1829 (Havana); 

 Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 824. 



POLYNEMID^l. 



43. Polydactylus virginicus (Linnrcus). " Cat Fish." 



Polynemus virginicus Linnreus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 317, 1758 (America). 

 Polydactylies virginicus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America,- S29. 




1897.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



HOLOCENTRIDJE. 



44. Holocentrus ascensionis (Osbeck). Welshman. 



Perca ascensionis Osbeck, Iter Chin., 388, 1771, Ascension Island. 

 Holocentrus ascensionis, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 848. 



45. Holocentrus marianus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Holocentrum marianutn Cuvier & Valenciennes, III, 219, 1829 ( Martinique) 

 Holocentrus mai'ianus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 852. 



A single specimen 6 in. long. Head 2|, depth 3 in length ; eye 

 2J in head; D. XI, 13; A. IV, 9 ; scales 4-45-7. Dorsal outline 

 much more curved than ventral ; mouth low, but little oblique, the 

 lower jaw projecting and entering upper profile ; maxillary to below 

 middle of eye ; eye large, lower margin of orbit cut by a line con- 

 necting tip of snout and upper base of pectoral ; angle of opercle 

 high, higher than top of pupil, with three sharp teeth, small teeth 

 along the margin next the subopercle ; subopercle long and narrow, 

 dentate near upper end ; preopercle very finely serrate, with a strong 

 spine at angle ; a single row of scales on opercle along margin of 

 preopercle ; suborbital bones very narrow, finely serrate ; premaxil- 

 lary groove on top of head as long as eye ; length of pectoral equals 

 head behind middle of eye; spinous dorsal depressible into a groove, 

 highest (anterior) rays of soft dorsal equal to ventrals, longer than 

 soft rays of anal ; third anal spine very long and heavy, as long as 

 pectorals; caudal forked almost to base, the lobes equal, as long as 

 pectorals. Each row of scales with a red band, yellow lines between 

 the rows ; fins all yellowish. 



This is a strongly marked species, very different from Holocentrus 

 ascensionis, perhaps the type of a distinct genus, characterized by 

 the large mouth and projecting chin. 



MULLID.S3. 



46. Upeneus maculatus (Bloch). 



Mullus maculatus Bloch, Ichthyologia, pi. 348, fig. 1, 1793 (Brazil). 

 Upeneus maculatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 858. 



47. Upeneus martinicus Cuvier & Valenciennes. King Mullet. 



Upeneus martinicus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 483, 1829 

 (Martinique) ; Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 859. 



SCOMBRIDJE. 



48. Scomberomorus maculatus (Mitchill). Spanish Mackerel. 



Scomber maculatus Mitchill, Trans. Lit. & Phil. Soc N. Y., I, 1815, 426 

 (New York). 



Scomberomorus maculatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 



874. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



49. Scomberomorus regalis (Block). 



Scomber regalis Block, Ichythologia, pi. 333,1795 (Martinique). 

 Scomberomorus regalis, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 875. 



50. Scomberomorus cavalla (Cuvier). King Fish. 



Cymbium cavalla Cuvier, Regne Animal, Ed. 2, II, 1829 (Brazil). 

 Scomberomorus cavalla, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 875. 



TRICHIURID^. 



51. Trichirus lepturus Linnanis. Cutlass Fish. 



Trichiurus lepturus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed, X, 246, 1758 (America) ; Jor- 

 dan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 889. 



CARANGID51. 



52. Oligoplites saurus (Blocb & Schneider). Leather Coat. 



Scomber saurus Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ich., 321, 1801 (Jamaica). 

 Oligoplites saurus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 898. 



53. Decapterus sanctae-helenas (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Caranx sanctce-helena: Cuvier & Valenciennes, IX, 37, 1833 (St. Helena). 

 Decaptenes sanctce-helena, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 908. 



54. Trachurops crumenophthalmus (Bloch). Goggle Eye Jack. 



Scomber crumenophthalmus Bloch., Ichth., pi. 343, 1793 (Acara, Guinea). 

 Trachurops crumenophthalmus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North Amer- 

 ica, 911. 



55. Caranx ruber (Bloch). Green Jack. 



Scomber ruber Bloch, Ichthyologia, pi. 342, 1793 (St. Croix). 

 Caranx ruber, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 919. 



The dark bar on lower lobe of caudal not discernible in } 7 oung 

 3 in. long. 



56. Caranx hippos (Linnajus). Crevally Jack. 



Scomber hippos Linnteus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 494, 1766 (Charleston, South 

 Carolina). 



Caranx hippos, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 920. 



57. Caranx pisquetus Cuvier & Valenciennes. Green Jack. 



Caranx pisquetus Cuvier & Valenciennes, IX, 97, 1833 (San Domingo) ; 

 Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, 432; Poey, Synopsis, 336, 1868. 



The West Indian specimens called Caranx pisquetus seem to differ 

 somewhat from the common northern form, Caranx crysos, and may 

 provisionally be regarded as distinct. The pectorals are longer, 

 much longer than the head, and reach well past front of anal. These 

 approach the Pacific species, Caranx caballus, in these regards. In 

 fact, we cannot separate caballus from pisquetus. Further compari- 

 son is necessary to show whether crysos, pisquetus and caballus con- 

 stitute one species or two or three. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



58. Caranx latus Agassiz. Horse Eye Jack. 



Caranx latus Agassiz, Pise. Bras., 105, 1829 (Brazil) ; Jordan & Evermann, 

 Fishes of North America, 923. 



In a specimen 20 in. long the opercular spot is nearly obsolete, 

 and the adipose eyelid is highly developed on hinder side of eye. 



59. Alectis ciliaris (Bloch). 



Zeusciliaris Bloch, Ichthyol., VI, 27, pi. 191, 1788 (East Indies). 

 Alectis ciliaris, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 931. 



60. Vomer spixi (Swainson). 



Platysomus spixii Swainson, Class'n Fishes, 250, 406, 1839 (Brazil, after 

 Agassiz and Spix). Vomer gabo?iensis Guichenot, Ann. Soc Maine et Loire, 

 1865, 42 (Gaboon). 



Head 2f ; depth If ; dorsal VI-I, 22 ; anal I, 18 ; eye 3| in head ; 

 maxillary 2£ ; snout 1J ; caudal 1. 



Body very deep, in form much like Selene cerstedi, profile very 

 steep almost vertical, snout slightly protruding, mouth oblique, max- 

 illary reaching to the vertical from front of eye, gill rakers 7+27, 

 the longest little more than half eye. 



Lateral line strongly arched in front, the arch H the straight 

 part ; plates of lateral line little differentiated ; pectoral falcate, as 

 long or slightly longer than head; ventrals small, under base of 

 pectorals. 



Color bluish above, sides silvery, fins except ventrals and anal 

 dusky. Here described from specimens from Jamaica about 10 

 inches in length. 



These specimens are evidently different from the northern Vomer 

 setipinnis (=Vomer broivni), the body in specimens of the same 

 length being much deeper. It corresponds to the figure given by 

 Agassiz of Vomer broivni, this figure being the basis of spixii 

 of Swainson. Probably all West Indian records of Vomer setipinnis 

 belong to Vomer spixi. 



61. Selene vomer (Linnaeus). , 



Zeus vo?ner Linnreus, Syst. Nat., X, 266, 1753 (America). 



Selene vomer, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 939. 



62. Chloroscombrus ectenurus Jordan & Osgood, Ms. New species. 



Chloroscombrus chrysurus of authors, not of Linnaeus. 



Micropteryx cosmopolita Agassiz, not Setiola cosmopolita Cuvier, who bases the 

 name on Scomber chloris Bloch, an African species from Acara, Guinea, Coll. 

 Dr. Isert. 



Two specimens 13J in. long. 



Types No. 4,863, L. S. Jr. U. Museum, two specimens 13i inches 

 long. Jamaica, J. S. Roberts. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Head 31 ; depth 2| ; D. VIII-I, 27 ; A. II-I-26. Snout slightly 

 shorter than eye, which is 3? in head. Chord of curved part of lateral 

 line If in straight part. Depth of caudal peduncle 2 in its length, 

 measuring from the base of the last dorsal ray to the base of the first 

 caudal ray. Pectorals long and falcate, 3 in length. Ventrals 

 short, 2\ in head, extending beyond the vent which is situated in a 

 groove in which these fins fit. Depth of head equal to or slightly 

 less than its length. The maxillary reaches the anterior edge of the 

 eye, and is contained 2f times in the head. 



Lateral line unarmed. Curve of ventral outline very slightly 

 more pronounced than that of the dorsal. Dorsal and anal fin 

 sheaths well developed. Tips of upper spines and rays dusky. A 

 black blotch at base of upper rays of caudal, and a black axillary 

 and opercular spot. 



This is the common West Indian species of Chloroscombrus. The 

 types are two specimens about 10 inches in length, collected at 

 Jamaica by J. S. Roberts. Co-types are five specimens (L. S. Jr. 

 Museum No. 406) collected by Dr. Jordan at Havana, Cuba. 



The species is closely related to Chloroscombrus chrysurus, the 

 common species of the South Atlantic and Gulf States, which it 

 evidently represents in the West Indies. The species chrysurus, is 

 deeper in every way, having a deeper body, a deeper head, and a 

 deeper caudal peduncle. In chrysurus, also the eye is larger, the 

 mouth more nearly vertical, and the arch of the lateral line higher. 



When specimens of equal size from Florida and Havana are com- 

 pared the characters are very evident. In two specimens each 7£ 

 inches in length, from Havana and Florida respectively, the depth 

 of the body of the one is contained li times in that of the other, 

 the depth of the head 1^, the depth of the caudal peduncle \\, and 

 the length of the eye li. 



The names chrysurus (South Carolina), lotus (Carolina) and cari- 

 bceus (Texas) evidently all belong to the species of the United States 

 coast. 



The type of chloris came from Acara in Guinea, and cosmopolita 

 of Cuvier was originally as a mere substitute for coloris. Until the 

 African species can be examined, it is better not to use the name for 

 either of the American forms. Probably Chloroscombrus chloris, 

 when studied, will be found distinct from either. If not, the name 

 would take the place of ectenurus. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



63. Trachinotus glaucus (Bloch). 



Chatodon glaucus Bloch, Ichthyologia, pi. 210, 1787 (Martinique). 

 Trachinotus glaucus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 940. 



64. Trachinotus rhomboides (Bloch). 



Chcetodon rhomboides Bloch, pi. 209, 1787 (Martinique). 



This West Indian species is apparently different from the north- 

 ern Trachinotus falcatus with which it has been confounded. In 

 specimens of the same size the vertical fins are much higher in the 

 West Indian species. 



Head 3£ ; depth If in length ; eye 3£ in head ; dorsal VI-I, 20 ; 

 anal II-I, 18. 



Back much elevated, but not angulated at origin of soft dorsal ; 

 end of snout not vertical, curved ; head slightly concave at occiput. 

 Maxillary to below anterior margin of pupil ; eye on level of lower 

 edge of premaxillary and axil of pectoral. Origin of soft dorsal 

 behind tip of pectoral, its lobe much elongated, extending to middle 

 of caudal ; lobe of anal reaching to below Uase of caudal ; caudal 

 lobes equal, 2 J in body; pectoral rounded, H in head; ventrals 

 2| in head. Scales minute, large posteriorly near lateral line. Pale 

 olive above, becoming silvery on belly, lobes of vertical fins dusky. 



65. Trachinotus carolinus (Linnaeus). Cobbler Fish. 



Gasterosteus carolinus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 490, 1766 (Carolina). 

 Trachinotus carolinus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 944. 



RACHYCENTRIDJE. 



66. Kachycentron canadum (Linnaeus). Cobio. 



Gasterosteus canadus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 491, 1866, Canada. 

 Rachycentron canadum, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 948. 



STROMATEIDJE. 



67. Rhombus paru (Linnosus). Poppy Fish. 



Stromateus paiu Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 248, 1758 (Jamaica, based on 

 Sloane). 



Rhombus paru, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 965. 



The specimens here noted have been compared with specimens 

 found in the Washington market, with which they agree in all re- 

 spects except in depth. The southern specimens have the depth of 

 If, the northern If. If the two are really different, as is probable, 

 the northern species will stand as Rhombus alepidotus. 



CENTROPOMIDJE. 



68. Centropomus undecimalis (Bloch). Sea Snook. 



Scicena undecimalis Bloch, Ichthyol., VI, 60, pi. 303, 1792. 

 Centropomus undecimalis, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 1,118. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



SERRANIDJE. 



69. Petrometopon cruentatus (Lacepede). Rock Hind; Mahiner. 



Sporus cruentatus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Pois., IV, 157, pi. 4, fig. 1, 1803 

 (Martinique). 



Petrometopon cruentatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 1141. 



Two specimens. One has dark brown reticulations on head en- 

 closing hexagonal pale brown areas, and the spots on each side of 

 the spinous dorsal are black, those on one side of the soft dorsal are 

 silvery white, on the other black. In the other smaller Bpecimen 

 the reticulations of the head are pale bluish, and sharply define the 

 hexagonal pale brown areas ; reticulations are also more or less dis- 

 tinct on the soft rays of fins ; the spots on each side of dorsal are all 

 silvery white, except that two are partly black. Edges of all fins 

 dark. The larger and darker specimen has a proportionately longer 

 maxillary, the maxillary in two specimens being If and 2 in head. 



70. Bodianus fulvus (Linnaeus). Lemon Yellow Butter Fish. 



Labrus fulvus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 287, 1758 (Bahamas). 

 Bodianus fulvus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,144. 



Lemon yellow, becoming orange on upper part of side and base of 

 dorsal, two round black spots on upper side of caudal, a few scatter- 

 ing small black spots on head and anterior side of body, none on end 

 of lower jaw. 



70a. Bodianus fulvus ruber (Bloch &, Schneider). Rock Hind. 



Gymnocephalits ruber Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 346, pi 67, 1801. 

 Bodianus fulvus ruber, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,145. 



70b. Bodianus fulvus punctatus (Linnasus). 



Perca punctata Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 291, 1758 (Bahamas). 

 Bodianus fulvus punctatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 1,146. 



71. Epinephelus adscensionis (Qsbeck). Rock Hind. 



Trachinus adscensionis Osbeck, Iter Chin., etc., 1757 (Ascension Island). 

 Epinephelus adscensionis,JordsLn&~E\ermann,Fishes of North America, 1,152. 



72. Epinephelus striatus (Bloch). Red Grouper; Rock Fish. 



Ant/iias striatus Bloch, Ichthyologia, IX, 109, pi. 324, 1792 (Martinique). 

 Epinephelus striatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,157. 



The canines are very small ; edge of preopercle with very minute 

 serrse. The vertical cross-bars nearly or quite obsolete on specimens 

 17 in. long. 



73. Epinephelus maculosus (Cuvier A Valenciennea). Rock Hind. 



Serranus maculosus Cuvier & Valenciennes, II, 332, 1828. 



Epinephelus maculosus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,158. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



74. Epinephelus morio (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Serranus morio Cuvier & Valenciennes, II, 285, 1828 (New York and San 

 Domingo). 



Epinephelus morio, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,160. 



75. Promicrops guttatus (Linnreus). 



Perca guttata Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 292, 1758 (Brazil). 



Promicrops guttatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,162. 



76. Mycteroperca venenosa apua (Bloeh). 



Boilianus apua Bloch, Ichth., VII, 37, pi. 229, 1790 (Brazil). 

 Mycteroperca venenosa apua, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 1,173. 



77. Mycteroperca bonaci (Poey). Marbled Rock Fish. 



Serranus bonaci Poey, Memorias, II, 129, 1860 (Cuba). 



Mycteroperca bonaci, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,174. 



Two specimens 10 in. long; color markings very much faded. 

 Two or three rows of alternating bronze spots from below eye 

 toward opercle ; the reticulations on body nearly obliterated ; pec- 

 torals slightly dusky, the other fins almost wholly black, a subter- 

 minal streak of light olive across caudal, and a similar one along 

 dorsal and anal, vertical fins narrowly edged with pale. 



78. Mycteroperca tigris (Cuvier & Valenciennes). Rock Fish. 



Serranus tigris Cuvier & Valenciennes, IX, 440, 1833 (San Domingo). 

 Mycteroperca tigris, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,187. 



79. Mycteroperca hopkinsi Jordan & Rutter. New Species. 



Allied to Mycteroperca calliura, differing in having fewer gill- 

 rakers, more slender body, smaller scales, and a less lunate caudal. 



Head 2| ; depth 4* ; D. XI, 15 ; A. Ill, 11 ; scales about 125 ; 

 eye 6 in head, 1$ in snout. 



Body long, not much compressed ; augle of preopercle sharply 

 serrate; gill-rakers 6-4-9, counting rudiments; nostrils close to- 

 gether, the posterior larger, with a horizontal septum across base; 

 profile concave above nostrils ; maxillary nearly to posterior margin 

 of eye, 1\ in head ; lower jaw projecting; two anterior canines of 

 upper jaw very strong; third and fourth dorsal spines longest; 

 posterior portion of anal truncate ; caudal concave. Pectorals 2, 

 ventrals 21, and caudal 1* in head. Color of alcoholic specimen 

 nearly uniform brownish, side of jaws paler ; soft dorsal, anal, ven- 

 trals and caudal, with a narrow pale edging, these fins otherwise 

 brownish-olive, with a subterminal band of black ; pectorals pale, 

 darker in middle. 



One specimen, about 6 inches long, numbered 5,073, L. S. Jr. 

 Univ. Museum. 



It is named for Mr. Timothy Hopkins. 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



80. Hypoplectrus unicolor (Walbaum). 



Perca unicolor Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, III, 352, 1792 (locality unknown). 

 Hypoplectrus unicolor, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,190 

 and 1,192. 



80a. Hypoplectrus unicolor puella (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Plectropoma puella Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., II, 405, pi. 37, 

 1828 (Martinique). 



Hypoplectrus unicolor puella, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 1192. 



80b. Hypoplectrus unicolor aberrans (Poey). 



Hypoplectrus aberrans Poey, Synopsis, 291, 1868 (Havana)- 

 Hypoplectrus unicolor aberrans, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North Amer- 

 ica, 1,193. 



Soft dorsal finely specked with brown (in spirits) ; body cloudy 

 yellowish brown ; the scales behind and above pectoral each with a 

 pearly dot ; a large black spot on caudal peduncle ; black spot in 

 front of eye, surrounded by sky blue, a blue stripe across cheek and 

 around eye, one or two vertical blue stripes behind eye, and several 

 on top of head. 



81. Dules dispilurus (GLintker). Grassy Ground Rock Fish. 



Centropristis dispilurus Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1867, 99, (Trini- 

 dad). 



Dules dispilurus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,219. 



Several specimens 3i in. long, which according to Mr. Roberts is 

 the maximum size. He also states that in life there are " two dorsal 

 and caudal stripes of white and pink, belly white, pectoral deep red." 

 The inner teeth of both jaws are somewhat depressible, and there 

 are 7 branchiostegals in five of the six specimens. The lower (seventh) 

 branchiostegal is rather small and is wanting in one specimen, leav- 

 ing but six. Apparently the presence of only six branchiostegals 

 cannot distinguish Dules from Prionodes. The caudal is truncate in 

 Dules, lunate in Prionodes. This species is evidently distinct from 

 Dales subligarius and doubtless from Dales aurlga also. It may be 

 that Dales jiaviventris and brasiliensis are synonyms of Dules auriga 

 rather than of Dules dispilurus. In any event we may let the name 

 dispilurus stand pending investigation. 



82. Rypticus saponaceus (Block & Schneider). 



Anthias saponaceus Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 310, 1801 (Havana). 

 Rypticus saponaceus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,232. 



This is a deeper fish than the following, the depth being equal to 

 or greater than the length of head. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



83. Rypticus coriaceus (Cope). Black Soap Fish. 



Eleutheractis coriaceus Cope, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, 1870, 467 (St. Martins). 

 Rypticus coriaceus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,233. 



Several specimens 5 to 6 in. long. One has three opercular spines. 

 Aside from the number of opercular spines, this species may be dis- 

 tinguished from the preceding by its more slender body, depth 

 li to \\ in head, and by the less projecting lower jaw. 



PRIACANTHID^. 



84. Priacanthus arenatus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Priacanthus arenatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, III, 97, 1829 (Brazil) ; Jor- 

 dan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 1,237. 



85. Priacanthus cruentatus (Lacepede). 



Labrus cruentatus Lacepede. Hist, Nat. Poiss., Ill, 522, 1800 (Martinique). 

 Priacantkus cruetitatus, Jordan & Evermann, Fishes of North America, 

 1,238. 



LUTIANID^. 



86. Neomaenis griseus (Linnaeus). 



Labrus griseus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 1758, 283 (after Catesby). 

 Lutj anus griseus, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 441. 



Apparently none of the American Lutianince, unless it be Lutianus 

 viridis, are congeneric with the East Indian type of Lutianus. The 

 naked vertex with a band of scales at the temples is found in the 

 American forms, while in Lutianus the top of the head is evenly 

 scaled. There is also considerable difference in the skull in the 

 species compared. For the American forms, typified by Lutianus 

 griseus, the name Neomcenis Girard may be revived. 



87. Neomaenis jocu (Bloch & Schneider). 



Antkias jocu Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 310, 1801 (Cuba, based on 

 Parra). 



Lutj anus jocu, Jordan & Fesler. Sparoid Fishes, 443. 



88. Neomaenis apoda (Walbaum). Mattin Snapper. 



Sparis apoda Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, 111, 1792 (after Catesby). 

 Sparus caxis Bloch & Schneider, Ichthyology, 284, 1810 (Havana, after 

 Parra). 



Lutjanus caxis, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 443. 



Nearly uniform gray, more or less dark above, with faint yellow 

 lines on side ; body with about six pale cross streaks sometimes very 

 distinct ; one or two rows of small dots from below eye forward to 

 edge of preorbital ; pectorals pale yellow, ventrals white, caudal and 

 spinous dorsal dusky, soft dorsal and anal pale. Faded specimens 

 may be readily distinguished by the very distinct fleshy fold which 

 fits closely against end of maxillary. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



89. Neomaenis buccanella (Cuvier & Valenciennes). Black Fin Snapper. 



Mesoprion buccanella Cuvier & Valenciennes, II, 455, 1828 (Martinique). 

 Lutjanus buccanella, Jordan & Fesler, Sparc-id Fishes, 445. 



Nearly uniform crimson, caudal and lower fins tinged with yellow, 

 axil of pectoral jet black. 



90. Neomaenis vivanus (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Mesoprion vivanus Cuvier & Valenciennes, II, 454, 1828 (Martinique). 

 Lutjanus vivanus, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 445. 



91. Neomaenis analis (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Lutjanus analis Poey, Enumeratio, 29, 1875 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Fesler, Spar- 

 oid Fishes, 1893, 445. 



Maxillary hardly reaching eye. Differs from synagris in the very 



weak vomerine teeth, pointed dorsal and anal, and elongate posterior 



nostril. 



92. Neomaenis synagris (Linnasus). Red Tail Snapper. 



Sparus synagris Linneeus, Syst. Nat., X, 280, 1758 (after Catesby). 

 Ltitjamts synagris, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 450. 



Seven yellow lines on body, caudal indistinctly edged with black ; 

 outer rays, red in one specimen, other fins pale; narrow lines, pro- 

 bably blue in life, extending forward from eye ; jaws purplish. La- 

 teral line 50. 



93. Neomaenis mahogoni (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Mesoprion mahogoni Cuvier & Valenciennes, II, 447, 1828 (Martinique). 

 Lutjanus mahogoni, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 451. 



94. Apsilus dentatus Guichenot. 



Apsilus dentatus Guichenot, in Ramon de la Sagra, Hist. Cuba, Poiss., 29, pi. 

 1, f. 2, 1845, Havana; Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 455. 



95. Ocyurus chrysurus (Bloch). Yellow Tail. 



Sparus chrysurus Bloch, Ichthyologia, taf. 262, 1790 (after Marcgrave). 

 Ocyurus chrysurus, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 452. 



A stripe of lemon-yellow from eye backward, covering nearly all 

 of caudal peduncle and the whole of caudal fin ; two rows of oblong 

 yellow blotches about two-thirds size of eye along lateral line; the 

 scales above and below the lateral line posteriorly more or less 

 strongly tinged with scarlet; many small round dusky spots on up- 

 per side of head ; pectorals, ventrals and anal colorless. 



96. Rhomboplites aurorubens (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Ceniropristis aurorubens Cuvier & Valenciennes, III, 45 (Brazil; Martin- 

 ique; San Domingo). 



Rhomboplites aurorubens, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 454. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



HJEMULID^. 



97. Haemulon macrostomum Giinther. Gray Grunt; Yellow Tail. 



Hcemnlon macrosloma Giinther, Cat., I, 308, 1859 (Jamaica) ; Jordan & 

 Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 470. 



Silvery gray, several dark lines on sides, those from point of oper- 



cle and along lateral line most distinct ; back on each side of dorsal 



greenish-yellow, edge of dorsal and caudal tinged with the same 



color ; pectoral pale orange ; fins otherwise dusky, the ventrals 



nearly black. 



98. Haemulon bonariense Cuvier & Valenciennes. Black Grunt. 



Hcemulon bonariense Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., V, 254, 1830 

 (Buenos Ayres) ; Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 470. 



The two fine specimens correspond to the account given by Jordan 

 & Fesler. The dark stripes on the side are dark bronze-brown in life. 



99. Hsemulon parra (Desmarest). Black Grunt. 



Diabasis parra Desmarest, Prem. Decade Ichthyol. , 30, tab., 2, f. 2, 1823 

 (Havana). 

 Hcemulon parra, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 471. 



100. Haemulon carbonarium Poey. Csesar Grunt. 



Hcemulon carbonarium Poey, Memorias de Cuba, II, 176, 1860 (Cuba) ; Jor- 

 dan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 472. 



Base of spinous dorsal yellow, fins otherwise very dusky. 



101. Hsemulon melanurum(Linnajus). Ca j sarGrunt. 



Perca melanura Linnreus, Syst. Nat., X, 292, 1858 (based on Catesby's fig- 

 ure; Bahamas). 

 Hcemulon melanurum, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 472. 



102. Haemulon sciurus (Shaw). Hump Back Grunt. 



Sparus sciurus Shaw, General Zoology, IV, pi. 64, 1803 (based on figure 

 and description of Anthias fonnosus Bloch, (Antilles). 

 Hcemulon sciurus, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 474. 



103. Hsemulon plumieri (Lacepede). Red Mouth Grunt. 



Labrus plumieri Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., Ill, 480, 1802, pi. 2, f. 2 (on 

 a copy of a drawing by Plumier, identified with this species by Cuvier). 

 Hcemulon plumieri, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 475. 



Stripes of head faintly indicated on anterior part of body. 



104. Hsemulon flavolineatum (Desmarest). Deep Water Grunt. 



Diabasis flavolineatus Desmarest, Prem. Decade Ichth., 1823, 35, pi. 2, f. 1 

 (Cuba). 



Hcemulon flavolineatum , Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 476. 



Color as described by Jordan & Fesler, except that the black 

 lines are wanting (size of specimen 7 in.). 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



105. Hsemulon album Cuvier & Valenciennes. White Grunt. 



Hamilton album Cuv. & Val., V, 241, 1830 (St. Thomas) ; Jordan & Fesler, 

 Sparoid Fishes, 469. 



106. Bathystoma aurolineatum Cuvier & Valenciennes. Caesar Grunt. 



Hcemulon aurolineatum Cuvier & Valenciennes, V, 237, 1830 (Brazil, San 

 Domingo) ; Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 486. 



A yellow stripe about as wide as a scale from eye to below posterior 

 end of dorsal, another of equal length and width from top of head 

 along side of back ; nearly every row of scales with a faint narrow 

 yellow line; end of snout bluish ; a dark blotch at base of caudal. 



107. Brachygenys chrysargyreus (Giinther). 



Hcemulon chrysargyreum Giinther, Cat., I, 314, 1859 (Trinidad) ; Jordan & 

 Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 476. 



Several specimens very pale in color. 



108. Anisotremus surinamensis (Bloch). 



Lutjanus surinamensis Bloch, Ichth., pi. 253, 1791 (Surinam). 

 Anisotremus surinamensis, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 484. 



109. Anisotremus virginicus (Linnaeus). Pork Bream. 



Sparus virginicus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X, 281, 1858- 

 Anisotremus virginicus, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 486. 



Body with alternating blue and golden stripes, which are from one 

 to two times as wide as scale, a golden stripe on base of anal ; webs 

 of dorsal and anal golden ; a broad black band from nape through 

 eye and across cheek, another from front of dorsal in front of pec- 

 toral ; pectoral yellow, ventral yellow with dusky punctulations. 



110. Conodon nobilis (Linnaeus). Sky; Coil Drummer. 



Perca nobilis Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X, 191, 1758 (North America). 

 Conodon nobilis, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 488. 



111. Brachydeuterus corvinaeformis (Steindachner). 



Hcemulon corvimvforme Steindachner, Ichth. Notizen, VII, 16, 1868 (San- 

 tos, Brazil). 



Pomadasis corvinceformis, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 495. 



Head 3 to 3 \ ; depth 3i ; eye 3f to 4 in head. D. XII, 15 ; A. 

 Ill, 7 ; scales 6-51-10. 



Upper profile regularly arched from snout to tail, the highest point 

 at origin of dorsal, lower profile nearly straight to base of anal. 

 Preorbital slightly less than eye ; maxillary not reaching eye, 3£ to 

 3f in head ; snout 21 to 3 in head. Anterior nostril oval, twice the 

 size of posterior. Preopercle finely toothed, about 20 teeth on upper 

 limb, increasing slightly in size toward angle. Dorsal notched al- 

 most to base, 4th spine longest, 2i to 21 in head, longest soft ray 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



(2nd) equal to or slightly less than longest spine. Pectoral pointed, 

 li to If in head. Ventral broad, the margin nearly straight, inner 

 ray H in 2nd which is 2 in head ; first ray branched once, slightly 

 filamentous, other rays much branched. Second and third anal 

 spines about equal, 3 to 3f in head, relatively larger in smaller speci- 

 mens, the second stouter; first soft ray 2$ in head ; margin of anal 

 slightly concave, the last ray shorter than second spine. Upper lobe 

 of caudal longer, more noticeable in the smaller specimens, H to 1% 

 in head, middle rays If in upper. Pectoral scaly at base only, other 

 fins, except spinous dorsal, more or less completely scaled, a narrow 

 sheath of scales on sides of dorsal and anal, supplementary scales 

 slightly developed in axil of ventrals. Least depth of caudal pedun- 

 cle 1 J to If in the length from below end of dorsal, its length being 

 equal to middle caudal rays. Lateral line and rows of scales above 

 it parallel with back, scales below lateral line in horizontal rows. 

 Color in alcohol : Dark olive above, lower sides more or less silvery, 

 the larger specimens much the lighter ; a dark line along each row of 

 scales below lateral line, these rather indistinct in larger specimens ; 

 scales above lateral line with dark centers, these not forming distinct 

 lines ; a diffuse dark blotch on scapular region, very faint in the 

 larger specimens ; pectorals colorless, other fins punctate, the mar- 

 gins very dark. A more or less distinct pale streak curving back- 

 ward and upward from corners of mouth to behind eye. There is 

 considerable variation in the ground color, the larger specimen be- 

 ing distinctly silvery, some of the smaller heavily washed with olive 

 and having the scapular blotch more developed. 



Our specimens differ from Steindachner's description in having a 

 shorter maxillary, not reaching eye, narrower preorbital and a blotch 

 on scapular region. 



Five specimens 5 i to 7? inches long. This species has not before 

 been noticed in the West Indies. 



SPARID^J. 



112. Calamus calamus (Cuvier & Valenciennes). White Porgee. 



Pagdlus calamus Cuvier & Valenciennes, VI, 206, pi. 152, 1836 (Martin- 

 ique. San Domingo). 



Ca/amus calamus, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 511. 



113. Calamus penna (Cuvier & Valenciennes). White Porgee. 



Pagellus penna Cuv. & Val.. VI, 209, 1830 (Brazil). 

 Calamus penna, Jordan & Fesler, Sparoid Fishes, 514. 



114. Calamus proridens Jordan & Gilbert. Sheeps Head Porgee. 



Calamus proridens Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 150 

 (Key West). 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



115. Calamus bajonado (Poey). White Porgee. 



Calamus bajonado Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 284, 1801 (Havana, 

 after Parra). 



116. Archosargus unimaculatus (Bloch). Shore Bream. 



Perca unimaculata Bloch, pi. 308, 1798 (Brazil). 



Archosargus unimaculatus ; Jordan & Fesler, Sjmroid Fishes, 520. 



Accessory scale of ventrals very long, almost as long as ventral 



spine. 



LOBOTIDJE. 



117. Lobotes surinamensis (Bloch). Whiting; Sea Sand Fish. 



Holocentrus surinamensis Bloch, Ichthyol., pi. 243, 1797 (Surinam). 

 Lobotes surinamensis, Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis, 535. 



Head 2f, depth If in length ; eye h\ to 6 in head ; D. XII, 15 ; 

 A. Ill, 11 ; B. VI ; scales 10-45-16. 



Body deep, compressed, head heavy, anterior profile concave, but 

 convex from front of dorsal to occiput. Mouth small, maxillary 

 2£ in head, slipping slightly under preorbital for its full length ; 

 jaws each with a baud of villiform teeth, in front of which is a row 

 of larger conical teeth ; no other teeth in the mouth. Eye nearly 

 two in interorbital space in a specimen 8 in. long, 1J in smaller 

 specimens ; interorbital space nearly flat, slightly raised in the middle 

 and at the edges ; scales on top of head extending forward past middle 

 of eye, the anterior boundary of the scales with three nearly equal 

 emarginations, one behind premaxillary groove and one behind each 

 pair of nostrils, the middle one scarcely the larger ; preorbital 

 slightly scaly, scales around eye very small and irregular, those on 

 cheeks larger, those on opercles largest. Opercular spines very 

 short and blunt, covered by the scales ; preopercle with very strong 

 spinous teeth, 10 or 12 on upper limb, 4 or 5 on lower, those at angle 

 \ to | length of eye, those above much shorter. 



Dorsal spines strong, the fifth longest, about half of head, those 

 behind nearly as long, the first scarcely longer than longest preoper- 

 cular spines ; soft rays of dorsal become longer to the 10th, which is 

 \\ in head, after the 10th they become much shorter; anal similar 

 to soft dorsal, the third spine longest 2| in head ; the spinous por- 

 tion of both fins depressible into a sheath, the soft portion of all 

 vertical fins scaly at base. Caudal rounded, about \\ in head ; pec- 

 torals rounded, 2 in head ; ventrals inserted behind pectorals, slightly 

 filamentous, If in head, the spine strong, curved, three-cornered. 

 Lateral line following curve of back, through middle of caudal 

 peduncle. Color in alcohol dark brown, variously blotched with 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113» 



pale olive, in one specimen the latter predominating; a distinct dark 

 brown or black stripe from eye toward origin of dorsal, another from 

 eye to angle of preopercle, a pair of hlack stripes on top of head, a 

 pair of small black blotches behind nape and a faint black blotch in 

 front of dorsal ; pectoral colorless, other fins black, anterior edge of 

 soft dorsal and broad tip of caudal white. 



So far as is known, this species is confined to the western Atlantic. 

 It is certainly different from Lobotes erate of the East Indies, and 

 the Pacific coast species of Lobotes, called Lobotes pacificus by Dr. 

 Gilbert (Ms.), is widely different and may belong to a different 

 genus. 



GERRIDJE. 



118. Ulaema lefroyi (Goode). 



Diapterus lefroyi Goode, Amer. Jour. Sci. and Arts, 1874, 123, (Bermudas). 

 Ger res lefroyi, Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, 259. 



119. Xystaema cinereum (Walbauin). Deep Water Shad. 



Mugil cinereus Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, 228, 1792 (Florida Keys; Baha- 

 mas ; after Catesby ) 



Gerres cinereus, Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, 263. 



Crossbars on body scarcely indicated ; otherwise as described by 



Evermann & Meek. 



120. Eucinostomus pseudogula (Poey). Long Shad. 



Eucinoslomits pseudogula Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 53, pt. I, 1875 (Havana). 

 Gerres pseudogula, Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, 

 260. 



Seemingly very abundant. 



121. Eucinostomus gula (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Gerres gula Cuvier & Valenciennes, VI, 464,1830 (Martinique); Ever- 

 mann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, 264. 



The numerous specimens here noted are, on an average, more 



slender than specimens from Florida with which we have compared 



them. They are, however, quite variable, and there is no basis for 



a specific distinction. Depth 21 to 2f. 



122. Gerres rhombeus Cuvier & Valenciennes. Schrer Fish ; Maccaback Schrer 

 Fish. 



Gerres rhombeus Cuvier & Valenciennes, VI, 459, 1830 (Martinique; San 

 Domingo) ; Evermann & Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1886, 266. 



123. Gerres olisthostoinus Goode & Bean. 



Gerres olisthostoma Goode &Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 423 (Indian 

 Kiver, Florida) ; Evermann & Meek, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886, 267. 




,114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



124. Gerres brasilianus Cuvier & Valenciennes. Stone Bar. 



Gerres brasiliamis Cuvier & Valenciennes, VI, 458, 1830 (Brazil ; Porta 

 Eico); Evermann& Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila., 1886, 268. 



Four fine specimens, 9 to 10 in. long. Silvery-gray, finely dusted 

 with black anteriorly ; dark lines following the rows of scales ; dor- 

 sal dusky, almost black in one specimen; caudal dusky, anals and 

 ventrals scarcely dusky ; ventrals slightly tinged with yellow ; pec- 

 torals colorless, one axil dusky ; no supraocular spot. 



SCI^ENID^E. 



125. Cynoscion jamaicensis (Vaillant & Bocourt). Mongalar Drummer. 



Otolithus jamaicensis Vaillant & Boucourt, Miss. Sci. au Mexique, Poissons, 

 1874, 156 (Jamaica). 



Head 3 ; depth 3 \ (4f with caudal) ; eye 4£ in head ; dorsal X-I, 

 25 to 27 ; anal I, 9 ; scales 63. 



Snout 3f in head, longer than eye ; maxillary to below middle of 

 pupil, 2i in head, lower jaw projecting. Depth of head over hinder 

 margin of eye If in its length. A single large canine in front of 

 upper jaw, four or five small teeth on side of lower jaw, other teeth 

 few and small. Tongue free at end and sides, with a broad median 

 groove. Slit of posterior nostril nearly vertical. Gill-rakers 3+7 

 =10, the longest \ eye. Opercular flap extending beyond upper 

 base of pectoral. Preopercle with a membranous margin. Dorsals 

 contiguous; membrane of anal scaled almost to tip, that of dorsal 

 about half way. Scales weakly ctenoid, those on top of head irregu- 

 lar in size. Pectorals about equal in length to ventrals, \\ in head ; 

 caudal double concave, middle rays longest. Curve of lateral line 

 gradual, becoming straight behind the fourth dorsal ray. 



Color, in alcohol, very dark olive above, the entire sides with 

 golden lustre, paler below ; dorsals, pectorals and caudal lightly 

 punctate, lower fins colorless. Tip of both jaws black. Inside of 

 mouth silvery white, top of tongue and a band around inside of 

 lower jaw bright yellow, roof of mouth lightly stained with yellow 

 in some places. 



This species is closely related to Cynoscion obliquatus, differing in 

 having the caudal doubly concave, the preopercle unarmed, and the 

 anal with but nine rays, and especially in its much more robust 

 form. 



The above description is based on five specimens 8 to 12 inches 

 long ; No. 4,564, Leland Stanford, Jr. University. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



126. Odontoscion dentex (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Corvina dentex Cuvier & Valenciennes, V, 139, 1830 (San Domingo). 

 Odontoscion dentex, Jordan & Eigenmann, Scisenidre, 377. 



127. Bairdiella ronchus (Cuvier & Valenciennes). Ground Drummer. 



Corvina ronchus Cuvier & Valenciennes, V, 107, 1839 (Maracaibo; Suri- 

 nam). 



Bairdiella ronchus, Jordan & Eigenmann, Sciaenidse, 389, 1889. 



The two specimens here noted, which are 9 in. long, differ slightly 

 from a small one from Bahia. The second anal spine is If in head 

 and does not quite reach the tips of the first two soft rays. The 

 anal basis is more nearly horizontal, the anterior profile is slightly 

 concave, the eye is shorter than snout, the teeth are smaller. The 

 depth is a little less than head. Soft dorsal and anal scarcely dotted 

 with darker ; brownish dots on sides as in B. armata. 



128. Micropogon furnieri (Desmarest). White Mouth Drummer. 



Umbrina furnieri Desmarest, Premiere Decade Ichthyol., 22, pt. II, fig. 3, 

 1823 (Cuba). 



Micropogon furnieri, Jordan & Eigenmann, Sciaenidse, 76. 



A specimen 10s in. long has the following measurements: Head 



SI ; depth 3| ; D. X-I, 28 ; A. II, 8. The color is less silvery than 



that of specimens from Havana, but otherwise it is essentially the 



same. 



129. TJmbrina coroides Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Umbrina coroides Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., V, 187, 1830 

 (Brazil). 



Head 3£; depth 3* in length; eye 4f in head; scales 6-50-9; 

 dorsal X-I, 27 ; anal II, 6. 



Highest point of dorsal outline at anterior third of spinous dorsal, 

 the anterior outline more strongly curved. Mouth inferior, hori- 

 zontal or nearly so, teeth equal, in bands; barbel short, blunt; 

 width of preorbital equal to length of eye ; nostrils close together, 

 the posterior oblong, more than twice as large as anterior, situated 

 immediately in front of eye ; preopercle finely and evenly serrate 

 above angle ; opercle with two dull points, not extending to edge of 

 marginal membrane, the lower somewhat more acute, both evenly 

 projecting. The lobes and pores in front of the mouth well-de- 

 veloped. Pectorals as long as ventrals, If in head, inserted under 

 opercular membrane ; ventrals inserted behind pectorals, the outer 

 ray with a very fine filament. Third dorsal spine longest, 1\ in 

 head. Caudal slightly emarginate, the lower angle slightly rounded, 

 upper and longest rays If in head, or equal to head in front of oper- 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897 



cle. Ground color steel-gray, somewhat silvery (slightly golden in 

 one specimen), 9 dusky bars on side, the anterior and posterior less 

 distinct, two in front of dorsal two under spinous dorsal, the fifth in 

 front of second dorsal, the last at end of dorsal ; each row of scales 

 above belly with a dark line, these oblique above lateral line, irregu- 

 lar below ; tip of spinous dorsal black, edge of soft dorsal dusky, 

 ventral and tip of caudal faintly dusky, underside of opercle black. 



This description is based on three perfect specimens 10 in. long. 

 They are not so deep as the figure given by Cuvier (117), the caudal 

 is shorter, and there are two fewer rays in the dorsal. 



It seems best not to use the name Umbrina broussonetii for this 

 species, as the short account given by Cuvier and Valenciennes does 

 not agree with the species, and Broussonet's specimens may not 

 have come from Jamaica. 



130. Menticirrhus martinicensis (Cuvier & Valenciennes). Jews Harp Drummer. 



Umbrina martinicensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, V, 186, 1830 (Martinique). 

 Menticirrhus martinicensis , Jordan & Eigenmann, Sciajnidne, 429, 1889. 



Indistinct blotches on back aud sides, scales above closely and 

 finely punctate, below with larger puuctulation on a silvery ground. 

 All fins dusky at tip, pectoral and anterior dorsal very dark. D. 

 X-I, 24. 



131. Eques acummatus (Bloch & Schneider). 



Grammistes acuminatus Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 184, 1801. 

 Eques acuminatus, Jordan & Eigenmann, Scirenidce, 98. 



The specimen here noted belongs to the typical variety, acuminatus. 



POMACENTRID^. 



132. Abudefduf saxatilis (Linnasus). 



Chcetodon saxatilis Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 276, 1758 (India). 



133. Eupomacentrus diencseus Jordan & Rutter, new species. 



Head 3i ; depth 2 in length ; eye 3| in head ; dorsal XII, 15 ; 

 anal II, 13; scales 4-28-9. 



Body elliptical, the dorsal and ventral outlines about equally 

 curved; snout short, not projecting; maxillary reaching vertical 

 from anterior margin of orbit ; eye placed above premaxillary ; sub- 

 orbital with one row of scales, finely serrate behind middle of eye ; 

 four rows of scales on cheeks; preopercle finely serrate on upper 

 limb, the serratures somewhat larger at angle, a few on lower limb near 

 angle ; opercle with two obtuse points ; lateral line ceasing under 

 third to fifth ray of soft dorsal, with 17 to 19 scales ; margins of 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



spinous dorsal nearly horizontal behind third spine, the last and 

 highest spine being If in head; soft dorsal somewhat higher, 

 pointed, the eighth and highest ray 1| in head ; anal similar to soft 

 dorsal, its highest ray 1| in head; tip of soft dorsal extending be- 

 yond that of anal, almost to middle length of caudal ; caudal forked, 

 the lobes rounded, the upper a little longer than head, £ longer than 

 lower, middle rays of fin Is in longest; length of pectoral equal to 

 that of lower caudal lobe, a little greater than that of highest dorsal 

 rays, about ItV in head ; veutrals slightly filamentous, extending 

 beyond origin of anal, slightly longer than the upper caudal lobe ; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle greater than its length, 2£ in head ; 

 a row of scales on the membrane of every ray in the vertical fins, 

 those on spinous dorsal larger and extending nearly to margin, 

 those on soft portions of vertical fins smaller (the rays being close 

 together) and extending about halfway to margins; axillary scale 

 of ventral not much developed. Nearly uniform dusky, the tips of 

 the scales lighter, thus forming more or less distinct vertical streaks 

 of light and dark ; fins uniformly black ; a dark spot at upper base 

 of pectoral and another at lower; opercle darker than surrounding 

 parts ; a few very faint light points below eye. 



The specimens here described have been compared with specimens 

 of Eupomacentrus fuscus of similar size, from Albrolhos Islands, 

 Brazil, with which species they are most closely related. Our speci- 

 mens have the caudal more deeply forked, the dorsal and anal 

 higher, the vertical fins less densely scaled, the axillary scale shorter, 

 much longer ventrals, the caudal and pectorals not lighter than 

 other fins ; and two dark-brown spots at base of pectoral, and the axil 

 entirely black. 



This description is based on two specimens 4 in. long. 4,969, L. 

 S., Jr. Univ. Mus. 



134. Chromis multilineatus Guichenot. 



Heliases multilineatus Guichenot, Sagra, Poiss. Cuba, 76, 1855, Havana, in 

 part. 



Furcaria puncta^Poey, Mem., II, 195, 1860. 



Head 3| ; depth 2f in length ; eye 3i in head; dorsal XII, 11 ; 

 anal II, 12 ; scales 4-28-9 ; branchiostegals 5 or 6. 



Body elongate, both curvatures about equal, head slightly concave 

 in front of eye : eye low, a line from tip of snout to tip of opercle 

 passing through lower edge of pupil ; maxillary slipping under pre- 

 orbital, its tip below anterior margin of orbit ; a band of villiform 

 teeth in each jaw, in front of which is a single row of conical 

 pointed teeth, the most anterior larger, especially in lower jaw; no 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



regular serrse on any of the opercular bones, but the preopercle 

 slightly rough at angle and above, opercle with a single obtuse point ; 

 snout equal to eye ; lateral line ceasing on front of end of dorsal, 

 with 19 scales; a series of disconnected pores along the side of tail ; 

 fourth dorsal spine highest 2i in head ; soft dorsal pointed, the tips 

 reaching base of caudal, longest ray If in head ; second anal spine 

 2 in head, equal to soft rays ; pectoral equal to head; ventral slightly 

 filamentous, reaching past vent, H in head; axillary scale and scale 

 between the fins, long, attenuate ; caudal deeply forked, the lobes 

 pointed, the upper longer. 



Color, in alcohol : back dusky, becoming paler with bluish on the 

 sides, with faint lines along side of belly, white below ; dorsal black, 

 the last 4 or 5 rays white ; middle rays of caudal white, outer rays 

 dusky, tip of soft dorsal yellowish ; anal slightly dusky ; pectoral 

 colorless, the axil black, the black showing as a small blotch at 

 upper base; ventrals white; a sulphur-yellow blotch across tail be- 

 hind dorsal. 



Two specimens, 4J in. long. No. 4,963, L. S. Jr. Univ. Mus. 



The specimens here described differ from the description of punctus 

 Poey, in having but 6 branchiostegals, and in having the yellow dor- 

 sal margin restricted to the soft portion. The species is very close to 

 Chromis marginatus. Compared with a specimen of this species 

 from Bahia, Chromis multilineatus differs in the following respects: 

 body more elongate, a greater number of last rays of dorsal yellow, 

 a distinct bright yellow spot present behind dorsal. 



Chromis marginatus has the depth 2 2 in length, there is but one 

 pale or yellow ray in the dorsal, and there is no yellow spot at the 

 base. The axil is jet-black in both, the color encroaching on the 

 upper base of the pectoral. 



Chromis atrilohatus Gill, from the Pacific coast, is also very simi- 

 lar, but in this species there is a black bar across base of pectoral. 



LABRIDJE. 



135. Lachnolaimus maximus (Walbauin). Hog Fish. 



Labrits maximus Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, 261, 1792 (after Catesby). 

 Lachnolaimus maximus, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 28, Report U. S. Fish 

 Com., 1887, 626. 



136. Harpe rufa (Linna'ii*). Spanish Hog Fish. 



Labrus rufus Linnreus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 284, 1758 (after Catesby; Caro- 

 lina). 



Harpe rufa Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 31. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



137. Chloriohthys bifasoiatus (Bloch). 



Labrus bifasciattts Bloch, Ichthyol., pi. 283, 1792 (East Indies). 

 Thalassoma bifasciatum, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 56. 



Head and iris very dark purple ; body to tip of pectorals black, 

 posteriorly green, the base of the scales darker; caudal peduncle 

 dusky, greenish on sides ; a pale greenish band across back and 

 sides through front of spinous dorsal ; outer rays of caudal black, 

 inner white ; spinous dorsal black, soft dorsal greenish with a pale 

 margin ; anal greenish, dusky anteriorly ; pectoral white, the tips 

 and base black ; outer rays of ventrals black, others pale ; head 

 without color markings, but the numerous pores on the cheek seem 

 to have mucous tubes radiating from the eye. 



SCARID^J. 



138. Sparisoma flavescens (Bloch & Schneider). 



Scarus flavescens Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 290, 1801. 

 Sparisoma flavescens, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 74. 



Caudal fin distinctly barred with brown, except the middle rays 

 which are pale. Body uniform brownish-olive ; dorsal mottled with 

 brown, anal and ventrals white; pectorals colorless, a black spot at 

 upper base of pectorals ; chin and throat white ; cheeks and top of 

 head washed with cherry red. (Color notes from alcoholic speci- 

 men). Caudal lunate, the upper lobe the longer. 



One specimen, 10 in. long. 



139. Sparisoma distinctum (Poey). 



Scarus dislinctus Poey, Mem., II, 423, 1860 (Cuba). 



Sides olivaceous, mottled with darker, an indistinct dark band 

 from above pectoral to caudal ; vertical fins mottled with bright red, 

 especially posteriorly, the caudal being entirely red in some speci- 

 mens ; a white cross blotch on tail behind dorsal ; the scales below 

 more or less distinctly pale edged ; pectorals tinged with yellowish 

 olive ; ventrals white ; some specimens with the belly and ventral 

 fins almost entirely red, the outer rays only being white, others with 

 but little red anywhere. This species is the frondosum of Giinther 

 and of Jordan but not of Agassiz, which is the aracanga of Giinther, 



140. Sparisoma rubripinne (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Scarus rubripinnis Cuvier & Valenciennes, XIV, 199, 1839 (San Domingo). 



A single specimen 9 in. long. The life colors of this speci- 

 men were not noted. In alcohol it is olive, mottled with lighter, 

 nearly white below ; a rather distinct white band below chin ; dor- 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



sal mottled ; caudal strongly marked with cross blotches, a pair of 

 subterminal blotches of white which nearly meet in the middle ; 

 other fins all white, the pectoral dusky (not black) at base ; no vel- 

 low blotch behind dorsal. Margin of caudal coucave ; forehead 

 strongly convex. The names rubripinnis, circumnotatus, emargi- 

 natus, virens and truncatus seem to have been based on this species, 

 which is distinct from S. flavescens, and probably from S. distinction 

 and S. frondosum. 



141. Sparisoma brachiale (Poey). 



Scarus brachialis Poey, Mernorias, II, 345, 1860 (Cuba). 

 Sparisoma brachiale, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 75. 



142. Sparisoma chrysopterum (Bloeh <fc Schneider). Blue Parrot. 



Scarus chrysopterum Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ich., 286, 1801, pi. 57 (Amer- 

 ican Seas). 



Sparisoma chrysopterum, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 76. 



Deep blue-green, head and portion behind pectorals brighter; an 

 ill-defined pale band on lower part of sides; lower part of body 

 greenish. Dorsal and anal yellowish ; caudal with upper and lower 

 rays green, tip with a narrow green border, in front of which is a 

 narrow orange crescent, the remaining portion of the central rays 

 pale yellow. Pectoral colorless, the upper rays tinged with lemon- 

 yellow, a dark spot at upper edge of base, axil orange, some orange 

 in front of base; teeth bluish. 



143. Sparisoma lorito Jordan k Swain. 



Sparisoma lorito Jordan & Swain, Proa U.S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 95 (Havana) \ 

 Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 76. 



Nearly uniform pale green ; top of head in front of eyes white ; a 

 blue streak from upper lip to eye and another from lower lip toward 

 pectoral ; dorsal yellowish ; middle of caudal rays orange, outer 

 green; anal dusky white; pectorals and ventrals white, a dusky 

 blotch at upper base of pectorals. 



144. Sparisoma viride (Bounaterre). Dark Green Parrot. 



Scams viridis Bounaterre, Enc. Meth., X, 96, 193, 178S (Bahama, after 

 Catesby). 



Sparisoma viride, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 77. 



Deep blue, scales edged with brownish, which above makes one 

 or two continuous streaks; top of head light grayish-brown, a simi- 

 lar band from eye to above gill-opening, another paler stripe from 

 opercle to corner of mouth and edges of both lips; edge of opercle 

 below pale grayish, changing to bright orange above, a deep yellow 

 spot at tip of opercle ; no inky black spot on opercle ; lips deep 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



blue except for gray edging ; head below livid olive. Dorsal light 

 yellowish, tips of spines and rays normally blue, base of soft part 

 blue; anal bluish-gray, with deep blue band at base and edge; 

 pectoral blue-gray, edged with bright blue above, tips broadly 

 orange; caudal blue-green, with a lunate yellow band, behind this 

 a deep blue-band, tips of rays pale, outer rays deep blue, a faint 

 band of golden-gray at base; ventrals yellowish, blue anteriorly. 



145. Sparisoma aurofrenatum (Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Scarus aurofrenatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, XIV, 19], 1839 (San Domingo). 

 Sparisoma aurofrenatum, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 77. 



Sides rosy, dusky olive on back and top of head ; iris red ; a 

 white streak backward from corner of mouth past eye, bordered on 

 each side by dusky ; a yellow and black blotch below lateral line 

 on third or fourth scale behind head ; dorsal yellowish, becoming 

 reddish- orange posteriorly; anal crimson, narrowly edged with black; 

 caudal pale yellowish at base, outer rays and lunate stripes across 

 middle light red, the middle rays bluish beyond, with a faint reddish 

 edge, tips of outer rays black. 



146. Sparisoma abildgaardi (Bloch). Rose Back Parrot. 



Scarus abildgaardi Bloch, pi. 259, 1791. 



Sparisoma abildgaardi, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 78. 



Back and sides mottled olive, the scales with dark edges ; top of 

 head dark olive ; belly abruptly cherry-red or scarlet ; lower part 

 of head black, dashed with red, a pale band at base of lower jaw. 

 Lower fins scarlet, pectoral paler, caudal yellowish washed with red ; 

 dorsal dusky olive, tinged with red behind ; dorsal all red in one 

 specimen ; margin of opercle blue-black ; teeth pale. 



147. Sparisoma radians (Cuvier &, Valenciennes). 



Scants radians Cuvier & Valenciennes, XIV, 206, 1S39. 

 Sparisoma radians, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 79. 



148. Scarus punctulatus Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Scarus punctulatus Cuvier A: Valenciennes, XIV, 195,1839 (Martinique); 

 Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 84. 



Back plain dusky yellow anteriorly ; scales on sides and back 

 posteriorly green, broadly tipped with yellow ; sides of head pink- 

 ish, a green stripe connecting upper side of orbits and extending 

 backward to gill-openings; lips green, the lower with an oblong 

 pinkish spot on each side, these connected or not ; the green band 

 of lower lip extending backward under eye to gill-opening ; breast 

 plain bluish ; dorsal dull orange, its margin and base green, and 

 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



S-shaped markings on the rays ; anal similar to dorsal, but the 

 markings on the rays nearly round ; caudal marked with rivulatious 

 of green and orange, the outer rays deep green ; pectoral green at 

 base, upper margins yellowish, otherwise colorless ; outer rays of 

 ventrals green, otherwise colorless. 



149. Scarus croicensis Bloch. 



Scarus croicensis Bloch, Ichthyologia, pi. 221,1790 (St. Croix); Jordan, 

 Labroid Fishes, 87. 



Color quite variable, usually pale reddish-brown with light streaks 

 extending backward from above and below eye, the upper ending 

 below end of dorsal, the lower extending along middle of tail, a dark 

 band between them and another less distinct below them ; belly pale. 

 In some specimens the sides are almost uniformly dark, the dark 

 lateral bands being very indistinct. Middle of caudal fin sometimes 

 slightly pale, but not in all specimens. Dorsal pale, sometimes 

 nearly covered with dark mottlings. Anal pale or white. Upper 

 rays of pectoral yellowish olive, paired fins otherwise pale. Teeth 

 white, reddish at base, one or two canines on one side in some speci- 

 mens. 



150. Scarus caeruleus (Bloch). Dark Blue Parrot Fish. 



Coryphuiia cmrulea Bloch, Ichthyologia, II, 120, taf. 176, 1786 (Bahamas, 

 after Catesby). 



Scarus azruleus, Jordan, Labroid Fishes, 88. 



Body ultramarine blue ; fins blue, dorsal edged with darker blue, 

 the membrane of spinous dorsal blackish at base ; a sky-blue 

 band from eye to and across each lip ; a pale band below it on 

 under lip, a narrow pale edging above. Pectoral with base and 

 upper ray blue, rest of fin pale ; anal deep blue, blackish at base ; 

 ventrals blue, the last rays paler ; caudal deep blue, the outer rays 

 darker, posterior edge pale; teeth pale. 



Specimens, about six inches long, have the back yellow, scales on 

 sides yellow with green edges, belly nearly uniform greenish ; outer 

 rays of caudal deep green, middle rays paler ; dorsal yellow, edged 

 with green ; anal pale yellowish, edged with green ; pectorals nearly 

 colorless, slightly orange at tip ; ventrals greenish ; teeth white. 



151. Scarus emblematicus Jordan & Rutter, new species. 



Head 3; depth 3 J in length; eye 4| in head; dorsal IX, 10; 

 anal III, 9 ; scales 3-24-5. 



Dorsal and ventral outlines regularly and similarly curved, body 

 highest over pectorals ; nostril in front of eye, close together, very 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



small, scarcely larger than some of the numerous pores which sur- 

 round the eye, the anterior round with a circular marginal valve, 

 the posterior oblong with a valve on lower side; eye If in snout, 

 low, a line drawn from corner of mouth to angle of opercle passes 

 along lower edge of orbit ; jaws projecting, the upper without 

 canines ; cheeks with only two rows of scales. Origin of dorsal and 

 root of pectoral in the same vertical, which is anterior to tip of 

 opercle. Tips of last dorsal and anal rays reach base of rudiment- 

 ary caudal rays. Caudal truncate, slightly rounded when the fin is 

 spread. Back dusky olive, a pale yellowish streak from upper side 

 of eye to upper base of caudal, below this a band similar in color to 

 the back extends from eye to caudal, sides below pale, with an in- 

 distinct dusky streak from above pectoral to caudal ; a horizontal 

 green stripe from upper end of gill-opening forward through upper 

 edge of eye and across top of snout ; another parallel with this from 

 gill-opening through lower edge of eye and around upper lip; lower 

 lip white, edged with green, a green band across chin, and a pair of 

 indistinct green blotches on throat; breast washed with green ; base 

 and edge 'of dorsal and anal green, a broad white stripe through the 

 middle of each ; upper and lower rays of caudal white tipped with 

 orange, edged on each side with green, the middle rays pale dusky 

 green, paler at base ; pectorals and ventrals white, the former not 

 dusky at base ; teeth white. 



This species is most nearly related to Scams cceruleus, but differ- 

 ing decidedly in the color markings. 



The above description is based on a single specimen 6 in. long. 



EPHIPPIDJE. 



152. Chsetodipterus faber (Broussonet). Portuguese. 



Chatodon faber Broussonet, Ichth. Decas., 1, V, t. 4, 1782. 

 Chatodiptertis faber, Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis, 613. 



CHJETODONTID.^]. 



153. Chsetodon ocellatus Bloch. 



CJnrtodon ocellatus Bloch, Ichthy., pi. 211, fig. 2, 1787; Eigenmann & Horn-- 

 ing, Chretodontidse, 7. 



Dorsal, anal, forehead and edges of gill-covers yellow. 



154. Chaetodon striatus Linnaeus. Butterfly. 



Oxetodon striatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 275, 1758 (India); Eigen- 

 mann & Horning, Beview Chietodontidae, 8. 



Side whitish, with narrow dark lines between the rows of scales, 

 a black stripe from occiput through eye to lower side of head ; a 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



broad dusky band from anterior part of dorsal across sides behind 

 pectoral and ventral, not hiding the longitudinal markings ; another 

 similar one from posterior part of spinous dorsal to and across mid- 

 dle of anal ; an olive band across caudal peduncle and fins adjacent ; 

 soft dorsal and anal light at base, a broad olive band through mid- 

 dle, this edged with black, the tips narrow, yellowish ; caudal simi- 

 lar but with an additional colorless margin ; olive mottlings at base 

 of caudal; pectoral colorless; ventral plain dusky, lighter at base. 

 In one of the two specimens here noted, there is a large, ill-defined, 

 rosy blotch behind pectoral. 



155. Chaetodon capistratus Linnaeus. 



Chcrtodon capistratus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 275, 1758 (India) ; Eigen- 

 mann & Horning, Review Chajtodontidse, P. 



156. Pomacanthus paru (Bloch). Angel Fish. 



Chmtodon paru Bloch, Icth., taf. 197, 1787 (Antilles). 

 Pomocanthus aureus, Eigenmann & Horning, Chaetodontidse, 12. 



Head 3f, depth If, eye 3 \ ; dorsal IX, 32 ; anal III, 24 ; scales 

 50 in longitudinal series. 



Body a regular ellipse, caudal peduncle short, less than half its 

 depth. Length of head equal its depth below top of eye. Dorsal 

 and anal falcate, the lobes extending beyond caudal, the posterior 

 portion of each rounded. Ventral spine \\ in head. Caudal trun- 

 cate. A broad, sharp spine at angle of opercle, no other spines on 

 head. Lateral line extending to base of caudal fin. 



Color, in alcohol : Sides silvery gray, each scale edged with white. 

 Head and breast olive (probably blue in life) ; ends of dorsal and 

 anal and middle portion of caudal dusky, ventrals black ; terminal 

 portion of pectorals colorless ; tips of snout dark, remainder white ; 

 a white band beginning in front of ventrals and extending upward 

 through opercle and becoming very narrow on nape; a white band 

 across side behind pectoral, extending along edge of spinous portion 

 of anal, and along the last dorsal spine to edge of fin ; another white 

 band on posterior portion of side fading out on vertical fins, one 

 across base of caudal and another across tip. Some specimens have 

 a median white stripe on top of head, others an indistinct dark one. 



In a specimen 12 inches long the spine at angle of preopercle is as 

 long as eye, while in the smaller it is but f eye. All the white bars 

 are wanting except the one at tip of caudal ; the whole body is 

 nearly uniform gray, the scales narrowly edged with white ; below 

 the pectoral only a few scales white; upper rays of pectoral yellow- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



ish-green ; chin and narrow line around upper jaw white, end of 

 both jaws very dark. 



157. Poinacanthus arcuatus (Linnaeus). 



Chcrtodon arcuatus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 273, 1758 (Indies). 

 Pomocanthus arcuatus, Eigenmann & Horning, Chjetodontidae, 13. 



The young of this species has the tip of the caudal white and the 

 base of the pectoral but slightly yellow. This species is distin- 

 guished from Poinacanthus paru by its rounded caudal besides other 

 characters, the latter having the caudal truncate. 



158. Holacanthus tricolor (Bloch). Rock Beauty. 



Chcrtodon tricolor Bloch, Ichth., pi. 426, 1795. 



Potnocanthus tricolor, Eigenmann & Horning, Review of Chretodontidae, 15. 



Head and body in front of a line connecting second dorsal spine, 

 axil of pectoral and second anal spine, lemon -yellow, slightly orange 

 in front of dorsal ; pectorals and ventrals lemon-yellow ; the caudal 

 similar but thickly covered with reddish-orange dots ; remaining 

 part of body, vertical fins and lips black ; slightly dusky between 

 eyes ; horizontal margins of vertical fins, margin of opercle and pre- 

 opercular spine reddish ; posterior tips of dorsal and anal lemon- 

 yellow ; iris yellow-blue above and below. 



159. Angelichthys ciliaris (Linnanis). Angel Fish. 



Clnetodon ciliaris Linnasus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 276, 1758 (Indies). 



Head Bi, depth If, eye 4* in head ; dorsal XIV, 21 ; anal III, 

 21. 



Body oblong, oval ; anterior profile straight, steep, sharply con- 

 vex in front of dorsal ; anterior dorsal outline and ventral outline 

 nearly parallel ; jaws projecting. Length of head equal to its 

 depth from anterior margin of blue ring in front of dorsal. Snout 

 2 § in head, the preorbital one-third broader than eye, with one or 

 two indistinct spines. Preopercle with a strong grooved, lightly 

 curved spine at angle, about as long as orbit ; five or six short, blunt 

 spines with intermediate minute ones on upper limb, the longest of 

 these" spines 6 in the spine at the angle ; two or three short, strong 

 spines on lower limb. Interopercle with one or two short spines. 

 Premaxillary very thick, its width above equal to orbit. A furrow 

 from front of eye below nostrils. Interorbital greater than preor- 

 bital, equal to distance between eye and upper end of gill-opening. 

 Soft dorsal and anal falcate, the filamentous tips reaching much be- 

 yond the caudal. Pectoral broad, obliquely rounded, II in head. Ven- 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



trals long, the spine long, If in head, the rays slightly filamentous, 

 not quite reaching anal, equal to head. Caudal rounded, equal to 

 head behind premaxillary. Lateral line ceasing before reaching 

 end of dorsal, the scales below regularly arranged, those above ir- 

 regularly. 



Color : Ground color olive, terminal half of scales on sides yel- 

 low, side of head yellowish-olive, top of head dusky ; a blue ring in 

 front of dorsal surrounding a black spot containing a few pale blue 

 specks; iris yellow, blue above and below; upper jaw blue-black, 

 some yellow at corner of mouth ; lower jaw, lower side of head and 

 breast dusky olive ; a dark blue margin to opercle much broader 

 above than below ; upper edge of preopercular spine pale blue ; edge 

 of dorsal fins blue-black, a black blotch on last rays, the fins other- 

 wise reddish or orange, becoming paler toward tip of filament; anal 

 similar to dorsal, but darker ; caudal entirely pale orange or clear 

 lemon-yellow ; pectorals lemon-yellow, the base with a brown blotch 

 bordered anteriorly by a narrow blue stripe ; ventrals lemon-yellow, 

 somewhat dusky at base. 



TEUTHIDID^3. 



160. Teuthis bahianus (Castelnau). 



AcantJutrus bahianits Castelnau, Anim. Nouv. Pares. Amer. S., 24, pi. 11, 

 fig. 1, 1855. 



Acanthurus tractus Poey, Memorias. II, 1860, 208 (Cuba). 



Teuthis tractus, Meek & Hoffman, Proa Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1884, 229. 



161. Teuthis hepatus Linnams. 



Teuthis hepatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat, Ed. 12, 507, 1766; Meek & Hoffman, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1884, 229. 



Nearly uniform brownish, the fins darker on edges, no dark cross 

 lines on sides. 



BALISTIDJE. 



163. Balistes vetula Linnams. Bossy Cerka. 



Batistes vehda Linn?eus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X ; Giinther, Cat., VIII, 215. 



Dorsal 111-30 ; anal 27. A blue line about the mouth, sending 

 a branch from above the corner of the mouth toward the throat ; 

 other colors are described by Giinther. 



164. Melichthys piceus Poey. 



Balistes piceus Poey, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 180. 

 One dried specimen. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



165. Alutera punctata Agassiz. Long Mingo. 



Alutera punctata Agassiz, Pise. Brazil, 1829, 137, pi. 76, very bad. 



Head to upper end of gill-opening 3£ in length ; depth 1\ ; dor- 

 sal 1-36; anal 35; orbit 41 in head to upper end of gill-opening; 

 length of gill-opening 3 ; caudal 21 in body; base of dorsal 3. 



Profile concave ; lower jaw much projecting, teeth in a single 

 series in each jaw ; eye 1 \ its diameter below dorsal outline of body ; 

 dorsal spine (broken) situated over middle of eye a little nearer soft 

 dorsal than tip of snout ; base of soft dorsal slightly shorter than 

 that of anal; pectoral short, equal to gill-opening, its base under 

 posterior third of gill-opening and anterior margin of eye ; caudal 

 peduncle 2z times longer than eye ; caudal long and rounded be- 

 hind. 



Color, in spirits, slaty-brown, darker above, covered with small, 

 round, dark-brown spots, about half as big as pupil; snout dark; 

 dorsal and anal dusky; caudal black. 



Here described from a specimen about 9 inches in length. 



This species is evidently distinct from the northern Alutera 

 schcepfi. 



166. Limonacanthus pullus (Ranzani). 



Monacanthus pullus Ranzani, Nov. Comm. Acad. Sci. Inst., Bonon.. 1842, 

 V, p. 4, taf. 1. 



Monacanthus pardalis, Giinther, Cat., VIII, 230. 



167. Monacanthus hispidus (Linnceus). Mingo. 



Batistes hispidus Linnjeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 405 (Carolina). 



Several specimens (one dried) 41 in. long. The snout seemingly 

 more produced, and more concave in profile than the northern form, 

 but otherwise the same. The two males have the side of the caudal 

 peduncle covered with retrorse spinelets, and have a smaller eye 

 than the females. $ , eye 2 \ to 2f in snout ; $ , eye 2\ to 2£ in 

 snout. Covered with small dots which are sometimes arranged in 

 horizontal rows, and irregular dark blotches. 



168. Monacanthus ciliatus (Mitchill). Flap Mingo. 



Batistes ciliatus Mitchill, Amer. Monthly Mag. and Crit. Review, No. V, 

 Vol. II, Mch., 1813, p. 326 (Strait of Bahama). 



Body with dark horizontal bands ; caudal with two dark cross- 

 bands, one being at the tip ; ventral flap washed with yellowish- 

 olive, with a dark blotch in male; fins colorless in females; dorsal 

 and anal tinged with yellow in the male. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



OSTRACILLXE. 



169. Lactophrys triqueter (Linnaeus). 



Ostracion triqueter Linnaeus, Svst. Xat , Ed. X, 330 (India) ; Giinther, Cat., 

 VIII, 256. 



170. Lactophrys trigonus (Linnaeus). 



Ostracion trigonus Linnaeus, Svst Xat., Ed. X, 330 (India) ; Giinther, Cat., 

 VIII, 256. 



171. Lactophrys tricornis i Linnaeus). 



Ostracion tricornis Linnaeus, Syst. Xat., Ed. X, 331, 1753 (India). 

 Ostracion quadricornis Linnaeus, Syst. Xat. Ed. X, 331, 1758 (India); 

 Giinther, Cat., VIII, 257. 



Three specimens, 5-j in. long. Ocelli confined to dorsal region, 

 sides with or without large blotches. A prominent streak under 

 eye, cheeks with blotches or small spots. Some specimens have a 

 row of spots through middle of caudal. Dorsal ridge with or with- 

 out a spine behind dorsal. 



172. Lactophrys bicaudalis (Linnaeus). Trunk Fish. 



Ostracion bicaudalis Linnaeus, Svst. Xat-, Ed. X, 330, 1758 (India J ; 

 Giinther, Cat., VIII, 257. 



Dorsal ridge sharp, spines of ventral ridges (measured on the 

 outer side) 2§ in head. Plates of carapace closely covered with 

 very small tubercles, these largest in middle of sides. Entire body, 

 tail and caudal fins regularly covered with round, black spots, these 

 also largest in the middle of sides. Dorsal and pectorals colorless. 



TETRAODONTID^l. 



173. Lagocephalus pachycephalias (Ranzani). Jug Fish. 



Tetrodon pachycephalus Ranzani, Xov. Comm. Ac. Sci. Inst., Bonon., IV, 

 1840, 73, pi. 11, fig. 2 (Brazil . 



Head 2f ; depth 3* ; eye 3f. D. 14 ; A. 13 ; P. 17. 



Body heavy, tapering from middle of head backward ; snout 

 blunt ; length of caudal peduncle equal to head in front of middle 

 of pupil. Vertical diameter of eye f of horizontal diameter. Inter- 

 orbital space slightly concave, 2 in distance from end of snout to 

 middle of pupil ; distance between eyes equal to snout. Gill-open- 

 ing vertical, broader than base of pectoral. Nuchal cross line of 

 mucous pores half way between snout and origin of dorsal, and one- 

 third the distance to base of caudal. Dorsal and anal alike and op- 

 posite, both somewhat falcate, the last ray about \\ in longest, 

 which is | in head. Pectoral very broad, the margin oblique, 

 slightly sinuous, lowest ray % longest, which is as long as snout ; 2 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



in head, the fifth ray from bottom shortest. Upper and lower rays 

 of caudal slightly produced, middle rays even, upper lobe larger, as 

 long as caudal peduncle. Folds on lower part or side of tail extend- 

 ing forward and meeting on chin, a very slight fold on each side of 

 tail above. Small, imbedded, three-rooted spines on the belly be- 

 tween the lateral ridges, not extending on to chin nor to vent, skin 

 otherwise perfectly smooth. Lines of mucous pores as in Lagoce- 

 phalus Icttiijatus; four short lines enclosing a quadrangular area 

 behind the eye, from the anterior corners of which extends a line 

 surrounding the eye, the posterior inner corners connected by the 

 nuchal line, the lateral line extending from the posterior outer cor- 

 ner. Lateral line extending directly backward till nearly even 

 with the dorsal fins, then curving downward and extending along 

 middle of tail to base of caudal. 



Color, in alcohol : Silvery-olive above, clouded with dark olive, a 

 faint greenish-olive area along sides, lower part on side silvery, 

 below white. 



This species differs from L. Icevigatus in the robust body with 

 short caudal peduncle, the merely emarginate caudal fin, and the 

 shape of the pectoral. 



Two specimens, 9i inches long. 



174. Spheroides marmoratus (Ranzani). Spiny Back Blow Fish. 



TetroJon marmoratus Ranzani, Nov. Comni. Ac. Sci. Inst., Bonon., IV, ~'l, 

 pi. 10, fig. 1, 1840 (Brazil). 



Head 2! ; depth 4 ; eye 4} in head. D. 7 ; A. 6 ; F. 14. 



Outline of head concave in front of eye ; eye full and high, its 

 distance above a line drawn from corner of mouth to upper base of 

 pectoral equal to its longitudinal diameter. Interorbital space very 

 narrow, grooved, its width equal to that of pupil. Snout long, If 

 in head. Nostrils at end of a tube, situated about equally distant 

 from end of snout and posterior edge of eye. Gill-opening equal to 

 base of pectoral, but higher. Length of caudal peduncle from anal 

 2 in head. Length of head equal to half of distance in front of 

 dorsal. Posterior rays of dorsal H in longest, which are 2? in head. 

 Pectoral very broad, folding fan-like, the margins scalloped, broadly 

 rounded, lowest ray If in upper which is 2J in head. Caudal fin 

 slightly longer than the distance of its base from dorsal, its rays all 

 of equal length, If in head. Prickles on ventral surface between 

 chin and vent, extending on side of head in front of pectoral fin, on 

 side behind pectoral fin to vertical from dorsal, above from nostrils 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



to dorsal ; only the snout, axil of pectoral and caudal peduncle 

 naked. Lateral line very faint, extending obliquely upward from 

 side of snout under eye, then backward, curving slightly downward 

 under dorsal, most distant on side of tail. 



Color, in alcohol : Above very dark brown, with black blotches, 

 the sides lighter with very pale reticulations, a series of about a 

 dozen irregular black spots along lower side; below white; caudal 

 slightly dusky, with no indications of bars, other fins colorless. 



This species differs from Spheroides spengleri in the high and 

 prominent eye, the very narrow interorbital, the strongly concave 

 outline of snout, the extensive distribution of prickles, and in color. 



175. Spheroides testudineus (Linnseus). Blow Fish. 



Tetrodon testudineus Linnaeus, X, 332, 1758 ; Giinther, Cat., VIII, 282. 

 Spluzroides testudineus, Jordan & Edwards, I'roc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886, 239. 



The specimens here noted have been compared with specimens of 

 Spheroides annulatus from various localities on the Pacific Coast. 

 The spots on the sides are much larger in our specimens and the 

 dorsal not so high; height of dorsal 2 2 in head, when depressed, 

 reaching about half way to caudal. In the Pacific Coast specimens 

 the height of the dorsal is 2 or slightly less than 2 in head, when 

 depressed, extending over I or f of the caudal peduncle. 



DIODONTLDJE. 



176. Diodon hystrix Linnreus. Soursap ; Porcupine Fish. 



Diodon hystrix Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 335, 1758 (India, after Artedi) ; 

 Eigenmann, American Diodontidse, 297, 1885. 



Several specimens 2* to 11 in. long and a skin 20 in. long. Those 

 about 6 or 7 inches long have the frontal and postpectoral spines 

 about equal, and all spines are covered with thick skin nearly to their 

 tips. There is a deep black blotch below and above the eye, a broad 

 one across the nape, a large one above each pectoral, a larger one 

 just behind middle of hack and one around base of caudal ; besides 

 these there are numerous, small, round spots about the size of the 

 pupil or smaller and about as numerous as the spines, scattered over 

 the body, there being three on each side of the tail and three on 

 upper side ; two or three of these behind and in front of the pectoral 

 forming- a single blotch. Ground color white below, dun color 

 above. Fins all colorless. 



The larger specimens have the frontal spines much shorter than 

 the postpectoral spines, There are no large blotches, but the dorsal 

 surface and fins are everywhere thickly covered with small round 

 black spots, very numerous around eye and on snout. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



The very small specimens are very dark with small spots as in 

 the adults ; fins pale. They have a number of cirri around the 

 mouth, a pair above the eyes being especially large. One pair, 

 those on the chin, remain in the adult. 



177. Chilomycterus antillarum Jordan & Rutter, new species. 



Allied to Chilomycterus schoepfi, differing in having the whole 

 body covered with black hexagonal reticulations instead of parallel 

 lines. This species has been described by Poey, Synopsis Cuban 

 Fishes, p. 429, as "Species dubia, an Chilomycterus fuliginosus? " 



Supraorbital spines two, one frontal spine, a single spine below 

 and in front of eye, two between eye and gill-opening ; interorbital 

 space deeply concave ; a transverse series of cirri on chin, and 

 nearly all of the spines along the margin of the belly have cirri, but 

 there are none above the eyes. Spines short and flat. 



Color, in alcohol : Above chestnut-brown, paler on sides, yellow- 

 ish below, the body everywhere covered with reticulating black 

 lines enclosing more or less nearly hexagonal areas somewhat 

 smaller than the pupil ; on the belly, lines become heavier, so that 

 Poey's character of " orange spots in a dark back-ground " is not 

 far wrong ; an ocellated black spot about the size of the eye above 

 the pectoral, another behind it, and one on each side of the dorsal ; 

 a black blotch on chin in front of the row of cirri and another at 

 each end. 



Type 5,056, L. S. Jr. Univ. 



SCORP^NimE. 



178. Scorpsena brasiliensis Cuvier & Valenciennes. Crimson Poison Grouper. 

 Scorpana brasiliensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, IV, 305, 1829. 



179. Scorpaena plumieri Bloch. Cockade Lady ; Poison Grouper. 



Scorpcena plumieri Bloch, Nya Handl. Stockh., X, 234, 1789; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Synopsis, 680. 



Two specimens 10 in. long. Head relatively much wider and 

 supraocular flap much smaller than in a specimen 1\ in. long from 

 Havana, but agreeing otherwise in every detail of structure. Color, 

 head very dark : body dark olive with two large black blotches or 

 bands ; one extending from spinous dorsal and the other from ante- 

 rior half of soft dorsal ; caudal pale olive, a black band at base and 

 tip and one through middle ; pectorals and ventrals variously mottled 

 with different shades of olive, black and brown ; anal barred and 

 blotched with white, black and brown, and a little yellowish-olive 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



posteriorly ; lower margin of gill opening and breast dark reddish- 

 brown ; belly pale. 



180. Scorpaena grandicornis Cuvier & Valenciennes. Poison Grouper. 

 Scorpcena grandicornis Cuvier & Valenciennes, IV, 303, 1829. 



TRIGLIDJE. 



181. Prionotus rubio Jordan. Red Gurnard; Couke. 



Prionotus rubio Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886,50 (Havana). 



CEPHALACANTHIDJ]. 



182. Cephalacanthus volitans (Linna?us). 



Trigla volitans Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 302 (Tropical Seas). 

 Cephalacanthus spinarella, Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis, 738. 



GOBIIDJE. 



183. Philypnus dormitor (Lacepede). 



Gobiomorus dormitor Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 11,599 (Central American 

 Seas ) . 



Eleotris dormitatrix, Giinther, Cat., Ill, 119. 



184. Eleotris perniger Cope. 



Culiits perniger Cope, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, 1870, 473 (St. Martins). 



185. Dormitator maculatus (Bloch). 



Scitzna maculata Bloch, Ichthyologia, pi. 299, fig. 2, 1797 ; locality unknown. 

 Dormitator maculatus, Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis, 632. 



A single specimen about 4 in. long, nearly uniform black. 



186. Gobius soporator Cuvier & Valenciennes. 



Gobius soporator Cuvier <k Valenciennes, XII, 56 (Martinique); Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Synopsis, 634. 



187. Awaous tajasica (Lichtenstein). 



Gobius tajasica Lichtenstein, in Berl. Abhandl., 1822, p. 273 (Giinther). 

 Gobius banana Giinther, Cat , III, 59. 



ECHENEIDIDJE. 



188. Ecbeneis naucrates (Linnaeus). Sucking Fish. 



Echeneis naucrates Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 261 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn- 

 opsis, 416. 



Several specimens. One 30 in. long is plain dark bluish above 



and lighter below. 



189. Remorareinora (Linn:vus). 



Echeneis remora Linnams, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 260, 1858 (Pelagico Indico) ; 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis, 417. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



MALACANTHIDJE. 



190. Malacanthus plumieri (Bloch). 



Coryphcena plumieri Bloch, plate 175, 1787 (Antilles). 

 Malacanthus plumieri, Giinther, Cat., Ill, 359. 



BLENNIIDJE. 



191. Labrisomus nuchipinnis (Quoy & Gaimard). 



Clinus nuchipinnis Quoy & Gaimard, Voy. Urania, Zool., 255 ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Synopsis, 762. 



PLEURONECTIDjE. 



192. Platophrys lunatus (Linnams). 



Pleuronectes lunatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 269, 1758 (Bahamas, after 

 Catesby ) . 



Platophrys lunatus, Jordan & Goss, Flounders and Soles, 43. 



193. Platophrys maculifer (Poey). Ringed Sole. 



Pleuronectes maculifenis Poey, Mem., II, 316, I860 (Cienfuegos). 

 Platophrys maculifer, Jordan & Goss, Pleuronectida?, 43. 



194. Syacium micrurum Ranzani. 



Syacium micrurum Ranzani, Nov. Spec. Pise. Diss. Sec, 1840, 20, pi. 5, 

 (Brazil) ; Jordan & Goss, Flounders and Soles, 46. 



The specimens here noted have not the eyes so nearly even as has 

 the specimen from Bahia, with which they agree otherwise. 



Family SOLEIDJE. 



195. Achirus lineatus (Linnaeus). 



Pleuronectes, lineatus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. X, 268, 1758. 

 Achirus lineatus, Jordan & Goss, Flounders and Soles, 88. 



Eleven specimens, five females, four that seem to be males, and 

 two seemingly immature females. Leaving out of account the latter 

 two specimens, the males can be readily distinguished by the darker 

 color, by the more anterior position of the upper eye, which is half 

 or more than half of its diameter in front of lower, and by the wider 

 gape to the mouth, which extends to below the middle of the lower 

 eye. The females are light in color, the upper eye is anterior to the 

 lower by less than half its diameter, and the angle of the mouth is 

 under anterior portion of lower eye. The two other specimens whose 

 sex could not be determined resemble the females ; one is small and 

 certainly immature, but the other is larger, and may be a male. 



196. Symphurus plagusia (Linnaeus). 



Pleuronectes plagusia Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., Ed. XII, 455, 1766 (Charleston?). 

 Symphtirus plagusia, Jordan & Goss, Pleuronectidae, 100. 



OGCOOEPHALID.2E. 



197. Ogcocephalus vespertilio (Linnaeus). Fishing Frog. 

 Lophius vespertilio Linnaeus, Syst. Nat. , Ed. XII, 402. 




134 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



February 2. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Fossorial Hymenoptera from New 

 Mexico," by T. D. A. Cockerell and Win. J. Fox was presented 

 for publication. 



February 9. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



February 16. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Forty-one persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"The Anatomy and Development of Spirorbis borealis," by 

 Mary A. Schively. 



" Inhumation and Incineration in Europe," by the Marquis de 

 Nadaillac. (By title). 



" Demonstration of the Absorption of Carbon Dioxide and the 

 Generation of Oxygen by Diatoms," by T. Chalkley Palmer. 



February 23. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



Mr. Thomas H. Montgomery was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



NEW FOSSORIAL HYMENOPTERA FROM NEW MEXICO. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL AND WM. J. FOX. 1 



Sphserophthalma snoworum n sp. 



$ . — Length about 15 mm., anterior wing 11 mm. Head, thorax, 

 antenna? and legs black, with black pubescence ; abdomen ferrugin- 

 ous, the basal segment darkened. Head small, rounded ; eyes very 

 prominent, shining ; pubescence of vertex becoming brownish ; an- 

 tennal sockets directed outward and downward, producing the 

 appearance of a prominent tubercle immediately mesadof the inser- 

 tion of each antenna, beneath which there is a deep depression, 

 which is smooth and shining ; clypeus and cheeks subcancellate with 

 large, close punctures ; penultimate joint of labial palpus very broad ; 

 first three joints of flagellum about equal in length. 



Thorax irregularly cancellate with close punctures, moderately 

 hairy, the pubescence on the prothorax becoming dark brownish. 

 Tegulse shining black. Middle segment gradually rounded, not 

 carinate at the sides. Wings dark fuliginous, a hyaline streak across 

 the second submarginal cell, and a hyaline spot just outside of it. 

 Three submarginal cells, the second broadly subtriangular ; marginal 

 cell not extending further than the third submarginal ; second re- 

 current nervure almost obsolete. 



First abdominal segment shaped something like the head of a 

 vulture, its union with the second marked by a deep suture. Pubes- 

 cence of abdomen tolerably abundant, black on first segment, largely 

 black on dorsum of second, the rest shining ochraceous. Punctua- 

 tion of abdomen extremely dense, the shining articulating surfaces 

 of the segments minutely transversely striate, no doubt for purposes 

 of stridulation. Apex broad and rounded, with lateral keels. 



Hab. — Albuquerque, New Mexico, Aug., 1894 (Snow). It is 

 named after the Snows, father and son, who have contributed so 

 much to our knowledge of the entomology of New Mexico. Near to 

 S. apicalata Blake (err. typ. for apiculata ?) from Mexico, but is 

 larger, abdomen entirely reddish, and lacks the pale pubescence of 



1 The descriptions are entirely drawn up by Prof. Cockerell ; my part has 

 been chiefly the comparison of the species with the collection of the American 

 Entomological Society. — W. J. F. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



head and thorax. In general appearance it resembles the Mexican 

 Mutilla cyllene Cam. 



Sphaerophthalma donae-anas n. sp. 



9 • — Length from 8 to 10 mm. ; brownish-ferruginous, with black 

 aud silvery pubescence, mostly appressed. Head very large, sub- 

 quadrate, about as large, seen from in front, as the thorax seen 

 from the side ; cancellate from a very close punctuation ; pubescence 

 partly erect and partly depressed, not dense enough to hide the sur- 

 face, silvery on cheeks, in front of eyes, on scape and base of mandi- 

 bles, black on vertex ; a small, smooth, shining spot behind each 

 eye ; cheeks distinctly keeled, but not toothed ; mandibles with a 

 rather large tooth on inner edge, this tooth and all beyond it black ; 

 antennae reddish-brown with blackened tips, first joint of flagellum 

 nearly twice as long as second. 



Thorax strongly rugose-punctate, constricted at sides, abruptly 

 truncate behind, with a tubercle at the top of the truncation ; nearly 

 as broad behind as in front. Pubescence not dense enough to hide 

 the surface, forming a blackish triangular patch on dorsulum, its 

 apex directed caudad, its base convex ; outside of this large patch 

 the whole dorsal area is covered with glittering yellowish-silvery 

 hairs. Elsewhere on the thorax there is little pubescence, except 

 about and just above the legs, where it is appressed, dense and sil- 

 very. Legs dark ferruginous, with thin pale pubescence, anterior 

 tibia? blackish, spines on hind tibia? tipped with black. 



Abdomen pyriform, first segment broadening rapidly, its suture 

 with the second flat, its hind margin blackish ; second segment, partly 

 from the ground color and partly from the hairs, appearing bright 

 orange-rufous, glittering with metallic orange, without any discal 

 spots or marks, but with a very broad low black triangle on its hind 

 border. Remaining segments with glittering yellowish-silvery pubes- 

 cence, laterally with a few erect black hairs ; extreme apex black or 

 blackish, but this not due to pubescence. Punctuation of abdomen 

 close. 



The general effect of the head and thorax is a sort of purplish- 

 brown, contrasting with an orange-scarlet second abdominal segment. 



Hab. — The Mesilla Valley in Dona Ana County, New Mexico. 

 Mesilla, Aug. 15 and 18, 1896 (Ckll.) ; near Las Cruces, Sept. (Ckll., 

 4,857, 4,894). 



Close to S. contumax Cresson, from Colorado, but the thorax is 

 broader, less narrowed posteriorly, being nearly quadrate ; there is 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



no pale pubescence forming maculation on second dorsal segment ; 



head without pale glittering pubescence to the extent of that in 



contumax. 



Mutilla (s. lat.) sanctae-fese n. sp. 



9 . — Length about 6J mm., slender, head and thorax ferruginous, 

 abdomen black except the first segment, which is ferruginous ; pubes- 

 cence thin, silvery, not hiding the surface. Head rather small, 

 almost circular seen from in front, subcancellate with large punc- 

 tures, very thinly pubescent, cheeks not keeled ; eyes prominent and 

 shiny, as in Sphcerophthalma, but oval; mandibles black-tipped, 

 and bearing a prominent tubercle on the outer (lower) edge, not far 

 from the base ; antennae furruginous throughout, first joint of flagel- 

 lum about as long as second. Thorax subcancellate, with very thin 

 erect pubescence, not forming any pattern ; seen from above it is 

 little constricted at the sides, and gradually but not greatly narrows 

 caudad, sloping rapidly behind, without any abrupt truncation. The 

 side view of the thorax has the outline of a half-circle. Coxa?, bases 

 of femora, knees and tarsi ferruginous ; femora and tibia? mainly 

 blackish ; tibial spines not tipped with black. Abdomen fusiform, 

 moderately shiny, second segment moderately densely punctured, 

 first segment rapidly broadening to second, its suture with it little 

 depressed. Pubescence of abdomen erect and rather conspicuous, 

 on the hind margins of segments 2 to 5 partly depressed and forming 

 rather thin white bands, on the disc of the second segment shorter 

 and blackish. The large, exposed articulating surfaces of the third 

 and fourth segments are minutely transversely striate, that of the 

 third having a sharply-defined median smooth area, wholly wanting 

 on the fourth. 



Hab.— Santa Fe, New Mexico, August 5, 1895 (Ckll., 4,260). 

 Superficially resembles S. virguncula, but has the abdomen finely 

 punctured and the entire insect is much more slender. M. sanctce-fece 

 is rather an anomalous little species, for while the eyes are shiny and 

 prominent as in Sphcerophthalma, it has the oval shape of Mutilla; 

 the general coloration, also, recalls some of the species of Mutilla. 

 The tubercle on the mandibles is a striking feature. The middle tibia 

 has two spurs. 



Ancistromma chilopsidis n. sp. 



$. — Length about HA mm., anterior wing 7 mm., smooth and 

 shining, entirely bright ferruginous except the head, which is black 

 except the antenna? and region of the mouth. Front shining, with 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



a distinct median groove, finely and tolerably closely punctured, a 

 few much larger punctures scattered about; distance between eyes at 

 top fully equal to joints 3 to 5 of antenna? ; clypeus, a small supra- 

 clypeal area, mandibles except ends, palpi and antenna? ferruginous ; 

 clypeus with minute close punctures except in the middle, where they 

 are large and sparse, anterior margin gradually rounded, sublaterally 

 angled, but hardly dentate; antenna? short, scape swollen, with a 

 conspicuous bulla, first three joints of flagellum of about equal length. 



Dorsulum with fine close punctures, the mesothorax with thin short 

 reddish-orange pile, not easily noticeable, shining almost silvery just 

 in front of scutellum in certain lights; scutellum not impressed me- 

 dially ; middle segment very finely transversely striate, appearing 

 almost sericeous. Legs quite spinose, the anterior tarsi especially 

 with very long spines, seven on the first joint, and two on each of the 

 following three ; hind spur of hind tibia nearly as long as first tarsal 

 joint. Abdomen impunctate, pygidial area not nearly twice as long 

 as broad, very sparsely punctured. Wings hyaline, nervures ferru- 

 ginous. 



Hab. — Rincon, New Mexico, at flowers of Chilopsis saligna Don, 

 (Bignoniacese), July 5, 1896 (Ckll., B. 4), one specimen only. It is 

 quite distinct from all other species by its coloration ; it comes nearest, 

 apparently, to A. eonferta Fox, which has a black thorax, etc. 



Astatus bigelovise n. sp. 



9 . — Length 11 mm., anterior wing 7? mm., smooth and shining, 

 entirely pitch black. Front with large close pits, one might say 

 deeply malleate, area between each lateral ocellus and the eye smooth 

 and impunctate, distance between the eyes at the top about equal to 

 antennal joints 2 to 4, first joint of flagellum a little longer than 

 second ; scape swollen, sparsely punctured ; upper part of clypeus 

 and supraclypeal area impunctate ; anterior margin of clypeus sul- 

 catulate, gently rounded, curved outward ; lower part of cheeks, 

 and mandibles at base and beneath, with black bristles ; cheeks 

 otherwise with sparse long silvery hairs ; antepenultimate joint of 

 labial palpi produced at tip, with the outline of a right-angled tri- 

 angle, very broad at base, the penultimate joint springing from near 

 the apex ; mesothorax with large punctures, close in front, becoming 

 sparse and irregular caudad, the surface between the punctures irreg- 

 ularly transversely striate; tegula? very dark brown ; disc of scutel- 

 lum shining, with a few very large punctures ; middle segment above 

 minutely cancellate, appearing coarsely granular under a low power ; 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



wings fuliginous, marginal cell only a little shorter than the first 

 submarginal, obliquely truncate ; second submarginal narrowed above 

 nearly to a point ; legs tolerably spiny, first joint of anterior tarsus 

 with four long spines ; tibial spurs black ; abdomen microscopically 

 tessellate, with a very few scattered punctures on the third to the 

 fifth segments, pygidial area minutely granular, about one-third 

 longer than broad. 



Hab. — On Bigelovia ivrightii, close to the Agricultural College, 

 Mesilla Valley, New Mexico, Sept. 11, 1895 (Ckll., 4,951). Differs 

 from A. nigropilosus by the sculpture of the middle segment, which 

 is not obviously reticulate. A specimen of true nigropilosus (re- 

 cognized as such by Mr. Fox) was taken on the campus of the Agri- 

 cultural College on Oct. 31. 



Gorytes bigeloviae n. sp. 



S . — Length about 10 mm., anterior wing 7 mm., rather slender, 

 black ; occiput, sides of face, cheeks, thorax, especially sides and 

 hind end, and abdomen, especially on dorsal segments three and 

 four, hoary from a minute silvery pile ; antennse, clypeus, mandibles 

 and anterior legs, orange-rufous, bright in color except the antennas, 

 which are dusky-brown above ; middle femora and tibiae obscurely 

 brownish beneath ; a narrow line along inner orbits, hind margin of 

 prothorax, tubercles and a mark behind them, obscure spot on tegulse, 

 spot above base of wings, broad band on scutellum, line on postscu- 

 tellum, and elongate patch on each side (margin) of middle segment, 

 apical bands on dorsal segments 1 to 5, broad on 1, becoming suc- 

 cessively narrower, and a broad interrupted band on the second 

 ventral segment, all creamy-white. Eyes very little converging 

 below, front strongly but rather sparsely punctured, clypeus some- 

 what convex, scape with an obscure yellow stripe in front, first joint 

 of flagellum only a little longer than second ; mesothorax with very 

 large, not particularly close punctures ; tegulae testaceous, with a 

 whitish spot ; scutellum sparsely punctured ; triangular basal area 

 of middle segment very strongly longitudinally furrowed, the re- 

 maining portion obscurely subcancellate ; wings hyaline, the mar- 

 ginal cell and a little beneath it fuliginous, nervures piceous, as also 

 the scigma, marginal cell shorter than in some species ; tibiae and 

 tarsi with only the minutest spines ; abdomen slender, first segment 

 shaped something like the head of a vulture, strongly bulging at end, 

 its suture with the second, viewed from the side, a little less than a 

 right angle ; first two segments with large rather sparse punctures, 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



second microscopically tessellate ; third to fifth segments with smaller, 

 somewhat closer punctures, apical segment microscopically punc- 

 tulate. 



Hab. — On Bigelovia wrightii, close to the Agricultural College, 

 Mesilla Valley, New Mexico, Sept. 12, 1895 (Ckll., 5,096). This has 

 something the appearance of G.fuscus Tasch., but will be known at 

 once by the coarctate first segment of abdomen, and the color of the 

 antennae and legs. The submedian cell of the hind wings terminates 

 the merest^point beyond the origin of the cubital nervure and the 

 last ventral segment is not bifid, or is the fifth ventral segment 

 armed with a prominence. 

 Gorytes crucis n. sp. 



9 . — Length about 10 mm., of head and thorax 5, of anterior wing 

 11 mm., of ordinary build, bright ferruginous, with a broad yellow 

 band on scutellum, and a darker, smooth abdomen. Inner orbits 

 parallel ; front minutely granular, with rather large sparse punctures ; 

 area between the ocelli black ; space between the antennal sockets 

 slightly less than the diameter of a socket ; clypeus prominent, shin- 

 ing, its lateral margins with some short silvery pubescence, its ante- 

 rior margin gently concave; mandibles dark at tips; scape not 

 swollen, second flagellar joint about two-thirds length of first. Pro- 

 thorax (and tubercles) entirely without pale marking ; mesothorax 

 granular, with large not very close punctures ; scutellum microscopi- 

 cally punctulate and sparsely punctured, yellow, with the anterior 

 margin black ; anterior half of postscutellum black ; middle seg- 

 ment coarsely rugose-punctate, the well-defined triangular enclosure 

 strongly sulcate or logitudinally ribbed. 



Tegulse pale orange-fulvous ; wings fuliginous, with a pallid area 

 by the base of the stigma; stigma (and costal nervure) fulvous, 

 nervures dark fuscous, marginal cell quite long. Legs entirely 

 ferruginous, not very strongly spined ; claw-joint of anterior tarsus 

 much swollen, the remaining joints also somewhat enlarged. First 

 segment of abdomen coarctate ; the abdomen was unfortunately de- 

 stroyed before a detailed description had been prepared. 



Hab. — Las Cruces, New Mexico, Aug. 12 (C. H. T. Townsend). 

 Resembles tricolor and dentatusin regard to coloration, but the first 

 segment is coarctate. Its coloration and robust form easily disting- 

 uish it from the species with a coarctate segment heretofore known. 

 Using the table in Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, 1895, p. 517, it runs at once to G. rufocinctus, from 

 which it differs entirely in coloration. It has some degree of re- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



semblance to G. phaleratus (rufoluteus Pack.), which was taken by- 

 Prof. Townsend at Las Cruces on the same day (Aug. 12), but the 

 latter has a black mesothorax, yellow collar, etc., and has more the 

 appearance of venustus. 



Passaloecus armeniacae n. sp. 



9 . — Length 5 mm., black; the scape in front, mandibles except 

 their rufescent ends, palpi, and anterior tibiae in front, pale chrome 

 yellow, and anterior tarsi orange-rufous; tubercles cream-color; 

 tegula? very pale testaceous with a cream-colored spot. Front 

 roughened from minute close punctures; sides of face, and clypeus 

 to some extent, with brilliant silvery hairs; labrum conspicuously 

 produced, ending in a blunt point at an angle of about 75°. Mandi- 

 bles bidentate at apex, the inner tooth much the shortest. Dorsulum 

 very closely punctured, with a pair of obtuse but very distinct 

 tubercles ; middle segment coarsely reticulate. Wings hyaline, 

 beautifully iridescent, nervures and stigma piceous. Abdomen 

 shining, slightly pruinose, minutely punctured. 



Hab. — Santa Fe, New Mexico, flying about the foliage of an apri- 

 cot tree, July 4 (Ckll., 3,305). Near to P. annularis, but dorsulum bi- 

 tuberculate, and its anterior furrows not foveolate ; labrum more 

 acute than in annularis. 



Diodontus leguminiferus n. sp. 



$ . — Length about 3? mm. ; black, with a large head and rather 

 slender abdomen ; face below antennae silvery-canescent ; mandibles 

 with a yellow streak and rufous tips, palpi pale grayish-brown ; ante- 

 rior knees, tibiae and first joint of tarsus, and middle tibiae at base 

 and apex, pale dull orange-rufous ; hind tibiae at base pale brownish- 

 orange, tarsi all brownish. Front microscopically lineolate passing 

 into tessellate, with scattered punctures ; antennae simple ; cypleus 

 bidentate-emarginate ; dorsulum very minutely roughened, and very 

 distinctly punctured, the punctures very dense in front ; middle 

 segment coarsely roughened, irregularly cancellate; tegulae black; 

 wings hyaline, nervures and stigma piceous; abdomen shining, dis- 

 tinctly but very minutely and not very densely punctured; its out- 

 line from the side suggests a ripe pea-pod, hence the specific name. 

 The suture between the first and second segments is quite depressed. 

 Hab. — Santa Fe, New Mexico, in Mr. Morrison's garden, July 10 

 (Ckll., 3,447). Comes near D. flavitarsis in regard to the simple 

 antennae, but is much smaller and more slender, and the legs are 

 differently colored. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



DEMONSTRATION OF ABSORPTION OF CARBON DIOXIDE AND OF 

 THE GENERATION OF OXYGEN BY DIATOMS. 



BY T. CHALKLEY PALMER. 



The essentially vegetable nature of diatoms is at the present time 

 acknowledged by biologists almost or quite without exception. The 

 phenomena of their increase and reproduction, if nothing else, are 

 of a nature to call for their grouping in the same class with such 

 undoubted plants as desmids and the Zygnemacea?. Yet every 

 young student, seeing for the first time the glassy cells of diatoms 

 moving about under his microscope in a manner that would seem to 

 indicate a very animal-like volition, is liable to ask for some tangible 

 proof of their plant nature, some more elementary argument than 

 that drawn from relations which are to be apprehended in all their 

 significance only after somewhat extended study. 



However difficult, or even impossible, it may be to draw a definite 

 line that shall separate the animal and vegetable kingdoms, it is 

 probable that no one will object if the term plant is applied to an 

 organism which, when exposed to sunlight, is found to absorb carbon 

 dioxide and to exhale oxygen. The method and apparatus de- 

 scribed herein are designed to show that both these phenomena, 

 which are so characteristic of plants in general, are characteristic of 

 diatoms. Pelletan 1 states that he has collected sufficient of the gas 

 arising from diatoms to serve for the application of those usual chem- 

 ical tests which prove it to be oxygen. But it is not easy to bring 

 together the conditions that permit the collection, from diatoms 

 alone, of such a volume of gas as is required for these tests. Con- 

 siderable time, also, must be needed for the operation. This question 

 of time is, in fact, important to the success of the experiment ; for 

 in the absence of sunshine, or at least of bright daylight, it is found 

 by experience that diatoms, and especially the motile forms that are 

 expending energy in the way made evident by their motion, cease 

 to exhale oxygen and begin to absorb it, or at least to give out 

 carbon dioxide. This phenomenon, — the evidence of an exothermic 

 chemical reaction, — the diatoms exhibit in common not only with 



Les Diatomes. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



animal organisms but with all plants also. It is the well-known 

 process of respiration, that which Gautier has called "the animal 

 life of plants." The method I desire to describe is of great sim- 

 plicity, and it yields conclusive results within an hour, provided 

 the light be sufficiently strong ; it does not necessitate the collection 

 of any appreciable volume of gas, and it demonstrates both phases 

 of the endothermic reaction. 



Hematoxylin, the chromogen of logwood, is peculiarly fitted to 

 be an indicator in a case where it is desired to recognize the pres- 

 ence or absence of carbon dioxide and the evolution of nascent 

 oxygen, the solvent being ordinary water from spring or river con- 

 taining its usual traces of various mineral matters. Under the in- 

 fluence of carbon dioxide, the hematoxylin dissolved in such water 

 loses its normal rosy or slightly bluish-red tint, and turns to a yellow 

 with a tinge of brown. In the presence of nascent oxygen, on the 

 other hand, the light red hue deepens momentarily, and ends by be- 

 coming a very deep blood red. The latter change is in a manner 

 permanent, but the former is reversible, i. e. the rosy red color 

 returns when the carbon dioxide is removed. These well-known 

 color reactions are of great delicacy, and are used in the following 

 way : 



!■■■■■!■■■ imi iipiini iiiTnrrr 









ess: 



A sufficient quantity of water is taken to fill all of the tubes shown 

 in the figure, and the dish up to the mark DE. This is tinted with 

 a sufficient quantity of a freshly made solution of hematoxylin. 

 The color should be a very pale hue of red. The tube A is then 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



filled, and the rubber stopper, with its penetrating quill-tube, is 

 inserted, the last bubble of air is forced out by pressure, and the 

 tube suspended as shown. The remainder of the solution is acidified 

 with carbon dioxide from the lungs, blown into it through a glass 

 tube. The brownish-yellow tint having developed, tubes B and C 

 are filled with the solution, and into C some clean, living diatoms 

 are put. Both are then corked and hung as figured, the quill-tubes 

 dipping below the surface of the liquid in the dish. These quill- 

 tubes, which allow the pressure within the larger tubes, due to gas or 

 to expansion from heat, to relieve itself into the dish, are drawn 

 down to a very small opening in order to lessen diffusion of liquid 

 up or down, and to confirm the diatoms. The apparatus is now 

 exposed to bright light — if to direct sunlight so much the better, 

 since the action is then more rapid. Gas arises from the diatoms in 

 tube C, and simultaneously the color of the liquid, which is at first 

 like that in B, begins to change. Within fifteen minutes, under 

 proper conditions, the color has again become almost or quite as red 

 as that in tube A. The carbon dioxide has now in large measure 

 disappeared from the solution. The action continues, and the color 

 in tube C deepens rapidly, showing oxidation ; and this action con- 

 tinues until the color is quite blood-red, or even, in case much lime 

 is in the water, until bluish lakes are formed in clouds. The ceas- 

 ing of the action may, conceivably, be determined by exhaustion of 

 every trace of carbon dioxide, but data on this head are wanting as 

 yet. At all events the evolution of gas goes on long after the color 

 reaction of carbon dioxide has disappeared. 



The experiment may be varied in the following manner : All of 

 the tubes are filled with the normal, non-acid, reddish solution of 

 hematoxylin. Into A is put a living snail, into B live diatoms, and 

 C is allowed to remain for comparison. The whole apparatus being 

 exposed to sunshine, A pales rapidly under the influence of the carbon 

 dioxide from the snail, while B as rapidly darkens and reddens 

 compared with C, owing to the oxygen from the diatoms. This 

 result, so significant, is obtainable in a very few minutes. 



The diatoms selected for the above experiments were the long, 

 broad filamentous forms of Eunotia {E. major of Rabenhorst), which 

 are peculiarly applicable because it is easy to procure them in suffi- 

 cient abundance, and to free them, under a dissecting microscope, 

 from any accompanying alga? that might, by their presence, tend to 

 acts doubt upon the conclusiveness of the results. 




1897.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 145 



March 2. 



Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " The Genus Sturnella," by Witmer Stone. 



" Diptera Collected by Dr. A. Donaldson Smith in Somaliland, 

 Eastern Africa," by Chas. W. Johnson. 



March' 9. 



Charles Schaeffer, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "Underground Runners," by Ida A. Keller, 

 was presented for publication. 



March 16. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Sixty-one persons present. 



March 23. 

 Mr. Charles Morris, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



March 30. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



Premolars and Form of the Skull. — Dr. Harrison Allen pro- 

 posed to call the teeth back of the canines in Man the premolars, 

 since they are followed in direct infra-position by the teeth of the 

 same name in the permanent set : thus the deciduous series do not 

 possess molars. 



He also spoke of the effects of diseased action on the form of the 

 skull. Many of the so-called types were of late origin, due to 

 various phases of malnutrition and were not of much systemic 

 significance. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



THE GENUS STURNELLA. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



The diversity of coloration in the Meadow Larks included by- 

 authors under the name Stumella magna mexicana must have at- 

 tracted the atteution of anyone who has examined a series of these 

 birds. 



The range of mexicana as given in the American Ornithologists 

 Union Check List, extends northward to the Rio Grande Valley 

 though the larks from this locality are very different looking birds 

 from those which occur in Southern Mexico and Central America. 



The Meadow Lark of Southern Florida has also been referred to 

 mexicana, but while there is a close resemblance between the two, 

 they are widely separated geographically and their similarity must 

 be considered as a case of parallel development rather than of im- 

 mediate relationship. The uncertain status of these races seemed 

 to render desirable a careful revision of the genus, the results of 

 which are embodied in the present paper. 



For the opportunity of satisfactorily studying the relationships of 

 the Rio Grande Meadow Lark, I am mainly indebted to Mr. Josiah 

 Hoopes, of West Chester, Pa., who has taken great trouble to ascer- 

 tain the exact status of this bird, and has generously placed his en- 

 tire series of specimens at my disposal. 



I am also indebted to Mr. Robert Ridgway of the United States 

 National Museum, and to Mr. Wm. Brewster, from both of whom 1 

 have received series of specimens to aid in my investigations. These 

 together with specimens from the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia and from my own collection number 192 skins, which 

 constitutes the material upou which my work is based. 



The Meadow Lark was first named by Linnseus in 1758, 1 Alauda 

 magna based upon Catesby's Carolina, I, p. 33. pi. 33. He gives 

 the " habitat in America, Africa," the latter reference probably 

 referring to Macronyx, which greatly resembles Stumella in colora- 

 tion. In 1766 in edition XII of the Systema, Linuseus again 

 named the bird Sturnus ludovicianus, basing this name on Brisson 



1 Systema Natura, X ed., p. 117. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Aves, II, p. 449, t. 41, f. 1, and in 1816 Vieillot proposed the name 

 collaris for it. These names all refer to the eastern bird ; magna 

 having priority, of course holds for this race. 



In 1832 Wagler 2 proposed the name hippocrepis for the Cuban 

 Meadow Lark. In 1843 Audubon described 3 Sturnella neglecta 

 from the Missouri River above Ft. Croghan. Sclater in 1861* 

 called attention to the difference in Meadow Larks from different 

 parts of America, and proposed the names mexicana for the bird of 

 Southern Mexico (Jalapa, Cordova and Orizaba) and meridionalis 

 for the one inhabiting Colombia and Venezuela. 



Later Ridgway proposed the name inexpectata for a very small 

 Meadow Lark from Segovia River, Honduras. These six races 

 have been generally recognized, and have usually been ranked as 

 subspecies, though some authors contend that neglecta should be 

 considered as a distinct species. 



In addition to the forms already described two others have at- 

 tracted the attention of ornithologists on account of their peculiari- 

 ties of coloration, but have hitherto for want of better disposition 

 been included under mexicana. These are the Florida and Rio 

 Grande Meadow Larks. 



Dr. J. A. Allen was the first to call attention to the peculiarities 

 exhibited by the Florida bird (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., II, 1871, p. 

 288), but as he at that time referred all the forms of Sturnella to 

 one species, he naturally did not propose a new term for this race. 

 Chapman 5 emphasizes the difference between this Meadow Lark and 

 true magna, stating that he is unable to unite them, but on the 

 other hand, considers it impossible to separate the Florida bird from 

 mexicana, and so records it under that name, a practice which has 

 been followed by others but which seems never to have been ratified 

 by the A. O. U. Committee, as they do not include Florida in the 

 range of mexicana in their new Check List. 



The Meadow Lark of the Lower Rio Grande Valley also presents 

 strong points of difference from the recognized forms, and has been 

 recorded under a variety of names. 



In 1878 Sennett stated that magna was common near Browns- 

 ville, Texas, but only one specimen was secured ( $ March 26th), 



2 Isis, 1832, p. 281. 



3 Bds. Amer., VII, p. 339, pi. 487 



4 Ibis, 1861, p. 179. 



5 Auk, 1888, p. 273. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



aud adds that " we did not obtain var. neglecta, although it is un- 

 doubtedly common." 6 



Dr. J. C. Merrill states that the summer Meadow Lark at Ft. 

 Brown has been identified by Mr. Ridgway as typical mexicana. 

 " Its notes and habits do not differ essentially from those of magna. 

 Abundant from April until October." A foot note by Mr. Ridg- 

 way states that the two specimens examined by him were obtained 

 at Ft. Brown, August 21 and September 13, 1877, and agree ex- 

 actly with Mexican examples. " They are easily distinguished from 

 true magna by smaller general size, including the bill, and much 

 longer legs and feet." 



Becham states that all the birds taken or seen by him at Corpus 

 Christi, San Antonio and Beeville (December, 1886, March, 1887) 

 were typical neglecta, 1 while Hancock states that magna was com- 

 mon at Corpus Christi, but apparently the only bird shot proved to 

 be neglecta ; nevertheless he says that the song of the bird was 

 much shorter and more feeble in its utterance than magna. 8 Rhoads 9 

 says that he examined a Meadow Lark in the flesh at Corpus 

 Christi (June, 1891) which was undoubtedly magna, and that three 

 larks observed during several weeks previous in the same vicinity 

 had the song of magna. 



In view of these statements the simplest explanation seems to be 

 that while two forms of Meadow Lark are present in winter in the 

 Rio Grande Valley, neglecta does not breed there and that the resi- 

 dent bird has a song resembling that of magna. Its identity with 

 mexicana as claimed by Mr. Ridgway (I. c.) I cannot endorse 

 from an examination of the series before me. AVhile these birds 

 doubtless are identical with examples from Northern Mexico just 

 across the Rio Grande River, they are strikingly different from spe- 

 cimens from Southern Mexico, the type locality of mexicana. 



A careful comparison of a large series of specimens shows that 

 the Meadow Lark of the Rio Grande Valley is as light or lighter 

 than the lightest neglecta, averaging very similar to this form in the 

 coloration of the upper surface but agreeing with magna in the dis- 

 tribution of the )^ellow below. The birds from Mexico on the other 

 hand represent the darkest coloration exhibited by Sturnella. To 



6 Bull. U. S. Geogr. and Geol. Survey, 1878, p. 24. 



7 Proc. U. S. N. M., 1887, p. G70. 



8 Bull. Ridgway Orn. Club, II, 1887, p. 18. 

 '-•Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1892, p. 108. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



unite these two extremes and also the isolated Florida bird under 

 one name seems to me eminently misleading and quite at variance 

 with our treatment of geographical races of other species. 



I therefore propose to separate as a distinct subspecies the Rio 

 Grande Meadow Lark and to place the Florida bird for the present 

 at least along with true magna, for reasons that will be stated be- 

 low. The Rio Grande Meadow Lark may be separated as fol- 

 lows: 



Stumella magna hoopesi subsp. nov. 



Type No. 786, coll. Josiah Hoopes. Brownsville, Texas, £ , 

 March 13, 1892, F. B. Armstrong. 



Color below as in magna, but rather lighter and less buff on the 

 sides and under tail coverts; upper surface much grayer and gen- 

 erally lighter. The brown tints of magna are very largely replaced 

 by gray, especially on the wings. Sides of the face whiter than in 

 magna; tail bars almost always distinct, i. e., not confluent along 

 the shaft of the feather. 



This bird is the lightest of all the Meadow Larks, averaging a 

 little lighter than neglecta, the tail bars are also more distinct than 

 in any of the other races. 



A series of females in Mr. Hoopes' collection taken in midwinter, 

 are veiled below with very light (almost white) tips to the feathers, 

 and are even more strikingly different from magna than those in 

 breeding plumage, since the latter race in winter is veiled with 

 buffy-brown. 



While this race approaches neglecta in its general light color, the 

 absence of yellow from the malar region will at once distinguish it. 

 From mexicana it differs more widely than from any of the other 

 races, as we have in these two the extremes of dark and light color- 

 ation. 



The several races of Meadow Larks may then be distinguished as 

 follows : 



1. Yellow of throat not spread laterally on the malar region. 

 2. Colors of back darker. 



3. Black crescent on breast broader, light streaks above 

 inclining to white, terminal spots on feathers of 

 back generally distinct, magna. 



3. Black crescent narrower, light streaks above de- 

 cidedly buff; terminal spots on feathers of the back 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF L1897. 



generally reduced and crossed by black markings. 

 All brown markings on wings and back bright 

 chestnut brown. 



4. Bill very long, meridionalis. 



4. Bill shorter, mexicana. 



4. Bill and all dimensions very small, 



inexpectata. 

 2. Colors of back lighter, all the browns of the upper surface 

 and wings nearly replaced by gray, hoopesi. 



1. Yellow of throat spread laterally on the malar region ; plum- 

 age above more gray than brown, neglecta. 



THE FLORIDA MEADOW LARK. 



Judging from a comparison of Florida birds with a series from 

 the Atlantic States to the northward, I was inclined to separate the 

 former as a distinct race, following Chapman's views as to the im- 

 practicability of uniting them with magna. 



They are smaller and darker than magna, with the yellow gener- 

 ally more intense. All the feathers of the upper parts have the 

 black areas greater than in magna, especially noticeable on the 

 secondaries and tail. On the latter the crossbars are always con- 

 fluent, and sometimes the black area covers almost the entire 

 feather. 



Mexicana differs from the Florida bird in the much narrower 

 breast crescent, the general buff tint in the light markings and the 

 greater extension of the black area on the feathers of the back. 

 The brown tints in mexicana are also much brighter and inclined to 

 chestnut. 



Notwithstanding the differences exhibited by the Florida bird, 

 comparison with a series from Avery's Island Louisiana, and 

 another from southern Illinois and Indiana, 10 shows that they ap- 

 proach very close to it in all its peculiarities, the Louisiana birds 

 being quite identical. 



In view of this fact, it is certainly impossible to separate the 

 Florida bird, and if any separation is made of these southern dark- 

 colored Meadow Larks, the birds of the Gulf Coast and from some 

 distance up the Mississippi Valley (probably to the upper limit of 

 the Austroriparian Zone), must be included. The adoption of such 

 an arrangement would necessitate the revival of Linnaeus' name 



10 U. S. Nat. Mus. Coll. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



ludoviciana for the southern form since the type locality was Lou- 

 isiana. 



So far as I can judge from the material in hand, I think it 

 hardly worth while to attempt such a division. 



The exact relationships of some of the races of Stumella is very 

 easily traced, while in the case of others it is less apparent. 



The true Stumella magna is found throughout the eastern United 

 States from Maine southward, and westward to the edge of the 

 Plains. In the southern portion of its range it tends to smaller size 

 and darker coloration, as already described. 



To the southwest, magna extends into northeastern Texas ; one 

 from Jefferson Co. (No. 41,444, Coll. Wm. Brewster) being very simi- 

 lar to the eastern bird. In the Rio Grande Valley, however, the larks 

 pass into a very light race, fully as light as the prairie neglecta, with 

 the wings even grayer. This is the form here named hoopesi. 



The exact range of this bird I am unable to trace ; all the speci- 

 mens I have examined were from Brownsville and Laredo. 



In southern Mexico and Central America we find the race mexi- 

 cana, a very dark bird, most nearly resembling the larks from Flor- 

 ida. This, in turn, passes into the South American meridionalis, 

 which is of about the same coloration, but differs in its proportions, 

 especially in the very large bill. The peculiar form called inexpectata 

 is known only from three specimens from Segovia River, Honduras. 

 They are remarkable for their extremely small size, but resemble 

 mexicana in coloration. 



On the north mexicana probably grades into hoopesi, but I have 

 no specimens from northern Mexico showing this gradation. One 

 individual from Huachuca, Arizona (March 1, 1887, male, No. 

 23,198, Coll. Wm. Brewster), however, may, perhaps, be so regarded. 

 It has the narrow breast band of mexicana, and is browner above 

 than hoopesi from the Rio Grande Valley, which, in other respects, 

 it much resembles, agreeing strictly with this form in the distribu- 

 tion of yellow on the throat. 11 



Having thus traced the races most clearly connected with magna 

 and their offshoots, it remains to speak of the relationships of neg- 

 lecta. This form is found from the eastern border of the plains 



"Another bird labelled as shot at the same time and place (No. 23,199, 

 Coll." Wm. Brewster) is a typical male neglecta. It has the plumage much 

 worn, as in a breeding bird, while in the one referred to above, the plumage 

 is but little worn, agreeing well with November birds from Arizona. It is 

 strange that two such specimens should be taken on the same date ! 




152 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



westward to the Pacific, northward well into British Columbia and 

 southward to southern California, Arizona and northern Texas, 

 passing into western Mexico and southern Texas in winter. 



Eastward it occurs more or less numerously as far as Wisconsin, 

 Illinois and Missouri, thus overlapping the range of magna through 

 considerable areas. 



As I have no new evidence to offer as to the claims of this bird 

 to specific rank, I have let it stand as a subspecies in accordance 

 with the decision of the A. O. U. Check List Committee, though the 

 excessive rarity of specimens intermediate between neglecta and 

 magna taken in connection with the overlapping of their breeding 

 ranges, seems to me pretty strong evidence of their specific distinc- 

 tion, even though the differences in coloration are slight. 



As already stated, so far as my material goes, it seems that mex- 

 icana (as here restricted) does not occur within the limits of the 

 United States. If my arrangement is adopted therefore, 501a of 

 the A. O. U. Check List will be changed to Stumella magna hoopesi 

 Rio Grande Meadow Lark. 



Measurements in inches of the various races of Stumella are 

 appended. 



LENGTH OF WING. 



S. magna (Pennsylvania) (9 males) 

 S. magna (Florida) (10 males) 

 S. magna mexicana (6 males) 

 S. magna meridionalis (4 males) 

 S. magna inexpectata (1 male) 

 S. magna hoopesi (6 males) 

 S. magna neglecta (18 males) 



LENGTH OF CULMEN. 



S. magna (Pennsylvania) (9 males) 

 S. magna (Florida) (10 males) 

 S. magna mexicana (6 males) 

 S. magna meridionalis (4 males) 

 S. magna inexpectata (1 male) 

 S. magna hoopesi (6 males) 

 S. magna neglecta (18 males) 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



THE ANATOMY AND DEVELOPMENT OF SPIRORBIS BOREALIS. 

 BY MARY A. SCHIVELY, B. S., M. D. 



The following studies upon Spirorbis were made during the months 

 of July and August at Woods Holl, Mass. This chaetopod annelid 

 is found attached to the brown alga Fucus which grows on boulders 

 and the piles of old wharves in the locality referred to. It is best 

 collected at low tide and seems to limit itself to situations where 

 there is a strong current. The food of the annelid worm consists of 

 infusoria and minute forms of algse. 



From observations made during two summers, and upon material 

 collected from eight localities in the region of Vineyard Sound 

 and Buzzard's Bay, it appears that S. borealis has two breeding 

 seasons. One of these extends from the middle of June to the 

 middle of July ; the other extends through the month of August. 

 During the last two weeks of July no eggs were found either in the 

 body cavity or in the shell. Examining egg-chains on July 6th, 

 nothing but well developed embryos were found, while on July 31st, 

 the very earliest stages of segmentation and undeveloped eggs were 

 found in abundance. 



The shape of the body of S. borealis is sub-cylindrical anteriorly, 

 tapering posteriorly ; there are two grooves, a ventral and a dorsal, 

 in the latter is found the egg-chain. The outer segmentation corre- 

 sponds to the inner, the number of metameres and dissepiments 

 varying from 14 to 20. The segments are somewhat narrower on 

 the ventral than on the dorsal side, probably due to the position as- 

 sumed by the annelid in its shell. The external openings of the 

 segmental organs or nephridia are found on the ventral side near 

 the base of each metamere. On the prostomium are placed eight 

 branchise, one of which is modified into an operculum. These 

 branchiae are branching and filiform, each branching portion being 

 furnished with cilia arranged on either side. The branchiae are ar- 

 ranged in a circum-oval manner. In the usual position of the anne- 

 lid in the shell, the branchise and operculum only are protruded. 



The eggs pass out through the operculum ; its end bears a 

 movable translucent plate of lime which protects the animal from 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



injury after it has withdrawn into its shell, which it does upon the 

 slightest disturbance. 



There are two body regions — thorax and abdomen. The pro- 

 stomium and peristomium are not sharply separated from the suc- 

 ceeding metameres, but are coalesced into a buccal somite. The 

 mouth is circular in form and is placed between two semicircular 

 plate-like areas. The anus appears as a mere slit. 



The metameres arise through a process of cell-division from the 

 primitive layer of the undifferentiated mesoderm. The constriction 

 of the metameres begins in the trochophore stage of the worm. The 

 regions or layers of a metamere consist of the following : epithelium 

 or ectoderm, body sac (taking the place of the solid primitive mes- 

 oderm), intestinal epithelium or endoderm and mesenchyme cells 

 scattered between these layers. 



The parapodia are slightly developed. The upper bear hair-like 

 setse ; the lower consist of transverse ridges. In the adult worm 

 there are three groups of falciform seta? placed on either side of the 

 anterior thoracic region, each group containing from 6 to 12 setae. 

 These seta? arise from setigerous glands which are folliclesformed from 

 proliferation of the outer epithelial cells. Each seta is developed 

 from one of several structural cells. In its growth it breaks through 

 the follicle and extends from here over the surface of the surround- 

 ing epithelium. The follicle also projects into the body cavity and 

 is furnished with muscle fibres. 



Between the intestine and body-wall is found a cavity filled with 

 fluid ; this coelum or body cavity arises from the mesoderm by 

 cleavage. It is divided into as many consecutive chambers as there 

 are metameres (14 to 20). 



In the alimentary system three divisions may be distinguished, 

 fore-gut, mid-gut and hind-gut. The pharynx is non-protrusible. 

 The fore-gut proceeds from the stomodeum of the larva and its 

 epithelium is of ectodermal origin ; it is very much reduced in size. 

 The mid-gut is developed from the mesenteron of the larva ; its 

 epithelium is endodermal. This portion of the alimentary tract is 

 the principal digesting portion, and presents two regions, the ante- 

 rior or stomach intestine is wide, while the posterior is long and 

 narrow. The hind-gut is short and is developed from the procto- 

 deum of the larva. 



The enteric canal is surrounded for its whole length by a blood 

 sinus. Each branchial filament is penetrated by one blood vessel. 




1897. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



For the movement of the branchise there are well developed mus- 

 cle groups. In the free swimming larva, and also in the adult form 

 there are groups of muscles for the movement of setse. 



The egg-chain found in the dorsal furrow consists of from one to 

 four rows, each containing from ten to fifteen eggs. The color of 

 these eggs varies from brown to orange according to the stage of 

 development. Each egg is enclosed in a capsule, while all the ova 

 lie in a common membranous sac. The eggs are telolecithal with 

 considerable nutritive yolk, as the larva does not leave the egg cap- 

 sule until far developed. 



The shell in its earliest formation is trumpet-shaped : later it 

 gradually assumes the tightly coiled spiral form. As in all fixed 

 forms, the body characters undergo considerable modification dur- 

 ing development, and these are greatly influenced by the develop- 

 ment of a limy covering. The shell gland is placed in the ante- 

 rior-thoracic region, in the median ventral line. 



S. borealis is hermaphroditic, the generative products arising in 

 the walls of the perivisceral body cavity. The reproductive glands 

 are arranged on either side of the intestinal canal near the stomach. 

 Where the ova or sperm is developed is distinguished merely by 

 the presence of the products. The eggs pass into the body cavity 

 and from here into the operculum, where they are fertilized and a 

 capsule secreted ; from here they pass out through the opening of 

 the operculum and are placed in the mid-dorsal furrow. The oper- 

 culum of S. borealis does not serve for a brood-pouch as does that 

 of S. spirillum. 



DEVELOPMENT. 



The unfertilized eggs are much smaller in size, have a paler color, 

 and have a much more prominent nucleus than the fertilized eggs. 

 The unsegmented egg has a brown color, the yolk is evenly distrib- 

 uted in large and small globules ; the nucleus is very small. 



The following table will serve to illustrate the usual length of 

 time occupied by segmentation : — 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



All the eggs in the chain are never found to be in the same stage 

 of segmentation. The following will show the typical arrangement : 

 in a chain of 22 eggs, numbers 13,18 aud 20 were unsegmented; 2, 

 5, 6, 7, 9, 12 and 16 were 2-celled ; 14, 3 and 4 were 3-celled ; 1, 8, 

 15 and 22 were 4-celled ; 10 was 5-celled. The observation was 

 made at 2 P. M. ; by 3 P. M. the successive changes had taken 

 place in all these eggs with the exception of 13, 18, 20, 10 and 14, 

 all of which were probably dead. 



The segmentation in S. borealis is unequal. The first cleavage 

 plane is equatorial, and takes place as the following will serve to il- 

 lustrate : 



11.00 A. M., egg unsegmented. 

 11.05 A. M., slight notch visible. 



11.30 A. M., segmentation plane visible for one-half the circum- 

 ference of the egg ; polar globules jiresent. 

 12 M., faint, but complete segmentation plane, 2-celled stage. 

 1 P. M., marked segmentation plane, resting period. 



The egg having passed through the above described changes is 

 now divided into two unequal portions, the smaller of which is ellip- 

 soidal, giving the whole egg a somewhat dumb-bell shaped appear- 

 ance. The capsule is distinct, but more closely approximated to the 

 surface of the egg than in the preceding stage. There is no marked 

 change in color, the lower larger cell is somewhat darker than the 

 upper. 



In the 3-celled stage the division plane passes upward through 

 the smaller of the two cells already formed ; this stage then consists 

 of one large and two smaller unequal cells. 



By continuation of the division plane of the last stage the lower 

 and larger cell becomes divided into two unequal cells. This sec- 

 ond segmentation plane is at right angles to the first or segmentation 

 plane of the 2-celled stage. But by their peculiar intersection with 

 each other, neither plane is any longer a continuous circle; the 

 points of intersection are marked by z-shaped lines. The lower left 

 cell is darker than the others, containing the most yolk. In seg- 

 mentation of these eggs the first furrow or segmentation plane al- 

 ways bends to the right, the second bends to the left. 



The next division takes place in a plane at right angles to the 

 last. The first cell to be divided is the smallest of the four already 

 existing cells ; the polar globules take their position at the right 

 hand side of this small cell. The general shape of the egg becomes 

 modified somewhat at this stage. It is now irregularly spheroidal. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



The successive stages up to the 16-celled stage are shown in the 

 accompanying illustrations, Plate I. The origin of the respective 

 cells is indicated by arrows. The cells of the 4-celled stage are 

 designated A, B, C, D in the order of formation ; A', B', C, D' are 

 successively developed from these in the formation of 5-celled, 

 6-celled, 7-celled and 8-celled stages. In the same manner a, b, c, d, 

 are derived from the previous A', B', C, D', forming stages 9-celled, 

 10-celled, 11-celled and 12-celled. The next four stages are desig- 

 nated a', b', c', d', and constitute 13-celled, 1 4-celled, 15-celled and 

 16-celled stages in their respective order of formation. 



The blastula has a very small blastocoele ; the blastopore forms 

 the mouth. The cells of the endoderm take their origin from the 

 macromeres of the lower half of the blastula, while those of the up- 

 per half give rise to the ectoderm. The mesoderm can be traced 

 from the left posterior macromere. The blastula becomes bilaterally 

 symmetrical by the rise of the primitive mesoderm cells ; these lie 

 in the posterior portion on either side of the median line. Next in 

 development the endodermal cells of the blastula become invagina- 

 ted into the segmentation cavity and form the archenteron, while 

 the ectoderm grows over the invaginated portion. The primitive 

 mesoderm cells sink between endoderm and ectoderm deeper into 

 the segmentation cavity. 



In the gastrula stage the blastophore is a median ventral, longi- 

 tudinal slit ; this closes from posterior to anterior until there re- 

 mains only a small aperture. The first stage of the larva after seg- 

 mentation almost entirely fills the egg capsule, and is surrounded by 

 a zone of cilia. The body is opaque, reddish-brown in color, and 

 flattened on one side just below the cilated zone. 



In the second stage of the larva the ectoderm becoming invagina- 

 ted, forms the stomodeum or larval oesophagus ; the archenteron 

 elongates backward. There is a central opaque yolk-mass which is 

 surrounded by a layer of clear cells. This layer of clear cells is 

 thickest on the same side that the larva of the previous stage was 

 flattened. The zone of cilia persist and one pair of ocelli appear. 



The third stage of the larva has the flattened portion of the body 

 more marked than in the preceding stages. The collar originates as 

 two prominent projections on the right and left of the ventral, pos- 

 terior, median region of the body. 



The prominent features of the fourth larval stage are the increase 

 in the curve of the dorsal surface and the growth of the collar. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



In the fifth stage the larva appears divided into three regions : 

 anterior, middle and posterior. The anterior represents the cepha- 

 lic region, and is separated from the middle by a ring of cilia. The 

 collar covers the whole ventral side of the middle body region ; its 

 entire surface is ciliated. The body is of an orange color, while the 

 yolk mass is brown. There is a bright red projection below the 

 collar in the ventral region. Two ocelli are visible. 



The sixth larval stage is characterized by the greater develop- 

 ment of the collar and the development of hook-like setse in the 

 lateral portions of the body ; three pair of these seta? are arranged 

 between the collar and the posterior portion of the larval body. The 

 primitive body cavity lengthens during this stage. The region of 

 body from the posterior portion to mouth, becomes flattened. 



The body of the seventh larval stage is more vermiform ; the mid- 

 dle body region being the largest. Four ocelli are present (the 

 larger being the original two) which are placed on the apex of the 

 prostomium in the median line. There is an apical tuft of cilia 

 present and a ciliated post-oral ring. The mouth opens in the 

 median, ventral line and has ciliated lips. The collar is ciliated 

 and now covers only about one-third of the middle body region. 

 The posterior portion of the body is narrower than the middle por- 

 tion and is segmented ; its surface is ciliated on the ventral side 

 and there is a tuft of cilia on the last segment. The posterior end 

 of the intestine opens on the dorsal surface of the last segment by 

 means of an invagination of the ectoderm, and thus the anus is 

 formed. The operculum develops during this stage, appearing as a 

 narrow, triangular plate arising from the dorsal side of the head. 

 The larva now releases itself from the egg capsule by pressing its 

 spines against the walls, and becomes a free swimming form. 



In the eighth stage of the larva the operculum increases in size ; 

 the ocelli which were first to appear, now disappear ; the apical 

 ocelli remain. The club-shaped tentacles are replaced by the be- 

 ginning of branchiae. The operculum continues to develop. The 

 collar much reduced in size remains attached to the cephalic region. 

 In the ventral portion of the same region is the shell gland repre- 

 sented by an oblong mass of cells. The larva ceases to swim about 

 and sinks below the surface of the water, attaching itself to some 

 object by means of a translucent limy secretion. This is the shell 

 forming stage. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



The formation of the shell was observed as follows : On July 29th 

 at 8.30 P. M. the larva swam slowly about a limited area for about 

 fifteen minutes. It then remained quiet and attached itself to the 

 glass in which it had been placed, after a few minutes it began to 

 secrete a translucent mass about it. At 9.30 P. M. the shell thus 

 formed presented a translucent horn-shaped appearance and formed 

 a permanent tube covering about one-half of the fully extended 

 body. The upper half of the body was constantly protruded from 

 and withdrawn into this half formed shell. 



In the ninth stage the shell assumes a spiral form, but is about 

 half the diameter of the adult shell. The annelid still possesses 

 apical ocelli ; the collar disappears ; the tentacles are filiform and 

 branched. By differentiation of the cephalic region, and by growth 

 of the larva in length of the posterior part of the body, and by seg- 

 mentation into numerous metameres, the originally unsegmented 

 larva is transformed into the adult annelid. 



The time occupied by the development of S. borealis from the 

 first segmentation stage to that of the free swimming ciliated larva 

 was found by a series of observations to occupy the space of three 

 days. Two days later the annelids attached themselves and com- 

 menced the formation of shells ; the length of time required from 

 this stage on to completion of the adult shell has not been ob- 

 served. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



A. Agassiz. Spirorbis spirillum, Annals of Lyceum of Natural 

 History, Vol. VIII, pp. 318-323. 



J. W. Fewkes. Spirorbis borealis, American Naturalist, March, 

 1885, p. 249. 



Pagenstecker. Spirorbis spirillum, Zeitschrift fiir wiss. Zoologie, 

 XII. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES I AND II. 



Figures 1 to 10. Segmentation stages. 



Figure 11. Blastula stage. 



Figure 12. Gastrula stage. 



Figure 13. Sixth larval stage. Ventral view. (Still in the 



egg capsule). 

 Figure 14. Seventh larval stage. Ventral view. (Ready to 



escape from egg capsule). 

 Figure 15. Early shell secreting stage. Ventral view. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Figure 16. Later shell secreting stage. Ventral view. 



Figure 17. Adult Spirorbis borealw showing arrangement of 



branchiae, operculum, alimentary tract, shell gland, 

 generative glands. 



Figure 18. Cephalic and anterior thoracic regions of adult S. 



borealis showing arrangement of branchiae and 

 operculum, groups of setse, fore-gut of alimentary- 

 tract. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



NOTES ON UNDERGROUND RUNNERS. 

 BY IDA A. KELLER. 



Reduction to types is one of the most characteristic features of 

 modern biological science. That very important branch of botany 

 and zoology which is known as morphology has this for its sole ob- 

 ject. In all the variety of form and function which the plant world 

 offers we recognize only a few organs, viz. : root, stem, leaf and 

 trichome as distinct from each other, every part of a plant being 

 simply regarded as one, or a modification of one, of these fundamen- 

 tal forms. 



It is the same mental habit by which we are influenced in the 

 formation of our ideas regarding the life history of plants. We are 

 accustomed to unify the cycle of their existence ; e. g., we say that, 

 in general, a plant arises from seed, that it produces roots, a stem, 

 leaves and, finally, fruit, when the sequence is repeated. Although 

 in reviewing our past experience we are forced to modify our views 

 upon this subject, we do not hesitate to pronounce the foregoing the 

 typical plan of vegetable existence. The more carefully, however, 

 we investigate the development of plants, the more divergences we 

 find in regard to this recognized fundamental method. Especially 

 among the lower forms of vegetation it may be observed that repro- 

 duction by fruit gives way with great frequency to bud formations. 

 Nor in the higher forms is the beginning of the vegetable organism 

 to be found in the ovule as often as we are apt to suppose. Such 

 bud formations find expression here in the production of bulbs, 

 tubers, adventitious buds, runners, etc. 



So far as the resulting plant is concerned, there is no difference 

 visible, whether it was produced from seed or bud, and it is not un- 

 til we unearth roots in great numbers that we begin to realize how 

 great is the importance of the method of reproduction by buds in 

 assisting to clothe the earth with vegetation. Every botanist will 

 readily recall many illustrations of this point. One season I spent 

 much time in studying the formation of runners on the bulb of 

 Erythronium Americanum, and the result was surprising. Again I 

 dug, up a great number of the scaly bulbs of Oxalis violacea, and 

 found hardly one without one or more runners issuing from its base. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



It appears probable that these runners with incipient plants or 

 bulbs on their tips, in many cases, appear regularly at certain sea- 

 sons, and their development may be confined to certain periods. I 

 observed the beginning of the formation of runners of Erythronium 

 in early April, and their subsequent development which lasted at 

 least until June, when bulbs had formed on the ends. The speci- 

 mens of Oxalis referred to above were collected in June, but I have 

 also found runners on the bulbs of this plant in October. My chief 

 reason for putting these few observations together is to direct atten- 

 tion to these points, since the time favorable for this line of work 

 will soon be at hand. Our spring flowers will, without doubt, prove 

 good objects for investigation. It seems reasonable to suppose that 

 the formation of runners will be found to be most active when the 

 plant is not requiring much energy in seed and fruit formation. 

 This certainly seemed to be the case with Erythronium. I do not 

 now remember having found any runners on plants in flower, but I 

 collected scores of plants which produced runners actively, but 

 which had not sent up their flowering scapes. 



The following is directly in this line : On the 26th of April of last 

 year I came upon a locality near Swarthmore which was overrun to 

 an unusual extent by Ariscema triphyllum. I was struck by the 

 marked difference shown by these plants so far as their respective 

 stages of development were concerned, and began to dig up speci- 

 mens of various degrees of maturity. Upon examination of a young 

 plant such as is represented in Plate III, fig. 1, the corm was just be- 

 ginning to swell, a number of roots had emerged from it; these were 

 clothed with root-hairs for the soil adhered to them tenaciously. One 

 might naturally conclude that these young plants were seedlings pro- 

 duced from the fruit of the preceding year. A different origin was, 

 however, suggested by other plants of about the same appearance and 

 stage of development. A clue was obtained by such specimens as 

 that represented by fig. 2. The corm was somewhat thicker and 

 the appendage at its lower end was very suggestive. This was 

 brown in color, and was, without doubt, what remained of a shrivelled 

 runner attached at one time to another plant. Upon examination 

 of still younger plants, figs. 3 and 4, no sign of a thickened 

 corm was to be seen, and the rootstock, if such it may be called, was 

 still firm and hard. The attachment to the mother plant was, how- 

 ever, no longer intact. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Fig. 5 represents a plant of considerably larger size. In other 

 respects it did not differ materially from that represented by fig. 

 2. Unless the truncate end of the corm may be considered as such, 

 every trace of the appendage was lost. This " cut off" appearance 

 did not belong to the body of the corm, for when the shrivelled coat- 

 ing was removed, the lower end revealed a conical shape — fig. 6. 



Fig. 7 shows a plant whose leaves and general appearance in- 

 dicated a farther stage of development, although its growth ap- 

 peared somewhat stunted. Three large buds z, had formed. The 

 specimen was interesting on account of the different relative posi- 

 tion of corm, stem and roots as compared with the plants repre- 

 sented in the preceding illustrations. The roots here emerged from 

 the base of the corm, while in the other cases described they pro- 

 ceeded from above. A turning of the corm seemed to have taken 

 place, the point through which the axis of rotation may be consid- 

 ered to pass is evidently at the junction of corm and stem. This 

 apparent rotation is probably due to the position in which the termi- 

 nus of the runner is primarily lodged. At all events, the subject 

 deserves further investigation. The upright stem in all cases obeys, 

 according to the rule, the influence of negative geotropism, the roots 

 are positively geotropic, but the corm itself seems to be quite free 

 from the influence of this force. Physiologically, this is certainly of 

 interest : I do not now recall any similar observations recorded in 

 regard to the effect of geotropism on bulbs produced from under- 

 ground runners. 



Fig. 8 represents a plant considerably larger than that of fig. 

 7. The corm here had an appearance of partial rotation, while 

 fig. 9 shows a corm from a plant similar to those of figs. 1 and 

 2, with the appendage below. It is a question, probably only to be 

 decided by statistics, which is the normal position, if there be such a 

 one, in young and mature plants. 



To show the variety of form assumed by the corms of Ariscema 

 triphyllum, I have outlined a number of these in fig. 10 ; a, b, c, d, e, 

 f and g, all being taken from flowering plants. Some are flat below, 

 c and/, others are convex, d and e. Buds are visible in many cases, 

 z, and even in these flowering plants the appendage, ap., indicative 

 of the origin of the plant, is not always lost. 



In many other respects, this species is extremely interesting. It 

 is remarkable for its variations in size. I have found specimens 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF ^HE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



which were considerably over two feet tall, while again one often 

 conies across flowering dwarfs barely six inches high. 



I collected, on the excursion above referred" to, 25 spikes for ex- 

 amination, and of these 21 were staminate and 4 pistillate. Of 

 the latter closer examination revealed that on 2 of them some few 

 stamens with ripe anther cells were to be found, the anthers being 

 well-filled with pollen, fig. 11, p. The anther cells had burst, 

 and there is no reason why the pollen, in such cases, should not 

 fertilize the ovules in pistils on the same plant, especially since small 

 insects are always found inside the spathe, which may serve to dis- 

 tribute the pollen. Possibly these few stamens may help to ensure 

 fertilization in case cross fertilization should fail, which latter 

 method, for aught I know, may be the usual one. The stigma is so 

 remarkable that I could not refrain from sketching it, fig. 12. It 

 is densely covered with enormous club-shaped hairs which are ex- 

 tremely like the glandular hairs I found producing the jelly-like 

 secretion in the fruit of Peltandra undulata. Here and there I 

 found a pollen grain on these hairs,/). 



Finally : From the numbers cited above, although they can- 

 not be taken to represent the ratio in which staminate and 

 pistillate spikes are to be generally found, it appears, never- 

 theless, that nature wastes a great deal of energy to secure the 

 formation of fruit by such an excessive production of pollen. We 

 may suppose that all these staminate flowers are produced to ensure 

 fertilization by insects. There occurs to me another point of view 

 to which I am at present somewhat inclined : Every one must ad- 

 mit that in nature there is an inherent tendency under proper con- 

 ditions to produce flowers even if there may be little chance finally 

 of seed formation, although the ulterior object of the flower is then 

 not accomplished. "We know that in the genus Ariscema the 

 " flowers are monoecious or by abortion dioecious." It is quite pos- 

 sible that this abortion may have a direct bearing on the method 

 of reproduction described above. I wish to emphasize the point 

 that while the plant obeys this flower forming inclination, the sup- 

 pression of fruit production on those plants, which by abortion 

 develop only staminate flowers, may serve to increase the tendency 

 to the formation of underground runners. At all events, if we at- 

 tempt to realize the great number of plants of Ariscema triphyllum 

 produced by buds we must admit that the plant with stam- 

 inate flowers only, is possibly not less prolific than the fruiting one, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



especially should it be found, as it is to be expected, that the growth 

 of runners from the development of underground buds is more vig- 

 orous when the chief energy of the plant is not consumed in fruit 

 formation. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE III. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 young plants of Ariscema triphyllwn, 

 § natural size. 



Fig. 6, conn of fig. 5, showing conical shape of lower portion after 

 removal of coating ; £ natural size. 



Fig. 9, corm with two buds, z, and appendage from a plant simi- 

 lar to that represented in VIII ; 1 natural size. 



Fig. 10, a, b, c, d, e, f, g, corms from flowering plants showing a 

 variety of form ; h natural size. 



Fig. 11, pollen grains; the protoplasm is contracted by alcohol ; 

 the nucleus, n, is very distinct; greatly magnified. 



Fig. 12, stigma beset with large club-shaped trichomes, three pol- 

 len grains are visible, p ; greatly magnified. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 189"; 



PLATE I. 



M. A. S. DEL. 



SCHIVELY ON SPIRORBIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE II. 



M. A. S. DEL. 



SCHIVELY ON SPIRORBIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897 



PLATE II 



I. A. K. DEL. 



KELLER. UNDERGROUND RUNNERS. 





1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



especially should it be found, as it is to be expected, that the growth 

 of runners from the development of underground buds is more vig- 

 orous when the chief energy of the plant is not consumed in fruit 

 formation. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE III. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 young plants of Arisaema trip hy Hum, 

 £ natural size. 



Fig. 6, corm of fig. 5, showing conical shape of lower portion after 

 removal of coating ; $ natural size. 



Fig. 9, corm with two buds, z, and appendage from a plant simi- 

 lar to that represented in VIII ; h natural size. 



Fig. 10, a, b, c, d, e, f, g, conns from flowering plants showing a 

 variety of form ; h natural size. 



Fig. 11, pollen grains; the protoplasm is contracted by alcohol ; 

 the nucleus, n, is very distinct ; greatly magnified. 



Fig. 12, stigma beset with large club-shaped trichomes, three pol- 

 len grains are visible, p ; greatly magnified. 



12 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



April 6. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



April 13. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" A Contribution to the Mammalogy of Central Pennsylvania," 

 by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



"A New Southeastern Race of the Little Brown Bat," by Samuel 

 N. Rhoads. 



" Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, 

 No. 2— Pompilidje," by Wm. J. Fox. 



" Notes on Plant Monstrosities," by Ida A. Keller. 



The death, on the 12th inst., of Edward D. Cope, a member, was 

 announced, whereupon the following minute was unanimously 

 adopted : — 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has received 

 with profound sorrow the announcement of the death of Prof. 

 Edward Drinker Cope. It is fitting that this meeting should 

 place on record a minute expressive of its sense of the loss sustained. 



The Academy witnessed the beginning and the end of his long 

 labors. It was to its halls he came as a student in 1859, and it was 

 to them he paid his last visit before his final illness. The lustre 

 thrown upon the society by his researches is but a reflex of the 

 spirit of this remarkable man who exhibited, in a way rarely 

 equalled in the history of science, the consecration of a powerful in- 

 tellect to the pursuit of the knowledge of nature. To an almost 

 unerring accuracy of observation he conjoined admirable judgment. 

 He was unexcelled as an expert in the field of vertebrate zoology of 

 both present and extinct forms ; he discovered great numbers of 

 genera and species ; he announced startling and epoch-making 

 schemes of classification ; he framed comprehensive systems of phil- 

 osophy based on biologic premises. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



One hesitates which to admire most : the tenacity of his memory, 

 the brilliancy of his wit, or the ease with which he used his enor- 

 mous erudition. To any community, and at any time, the loss of 

 such a man is a calamity. 



The Committee on the Hayden Geological Memorial Award re- 

 ported in favor of conferring the medal and interest on the fund for 

 1897 on Prof. A. Karpinski, of St. Petersburg, Director of the 

 Geological Survey of Russia. 



Pkof. Karpinski has long been the most prominent figure 

 among Russian geologists, and, in spite of the claims upon his time 

 and energy of the Geological Survey of Russia's gigantic domain — 

 very far the largest region in the world under the direction of a 

 single man — he has found time to contribute valuable additions to 

 our knowledge in many different fields. Some of these are : — 



Geological Investigations and Exploration of the Coal Deposits 

 of the Eastern Urals. 1880. 



Remarks on the Sedimentary Formation of Russia-in-Europe. 



Origin of the Iron Ore in the Donety Basin. 



Geographical Observations on the Urals. 



Sedimentary Beds of the Tertiary of the Eastern Urals. 



Reference to the Occurrence of Permo-Carbonic Measures in Dar- 

 wazminca. 1884. 



Ammonites from the Ural. 1884. 



Fossil Pteropods. 1884. 



Essay on Unification, etc. 1884. 



Geological Map of the Urals. 1884. 



Materials for the Study of the Methods of Petrographic Research. 

 1885. 



Geological Map of Russia, Sheet 139. 



Orographic Description. 1886. 



Prof. Karpinski has been prominent in the councils of the Inter- 

 national Geological Congress, his ability and eminence suggesting 

 his selection as the President of the general committee of organiza- 

 tion of the coming Congress. The Committee hopes to present 

 farther details of Prof. Karpinski's life at a later date. 



April 20. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



The deaths, February, 1897, of Baron Constantin von Ettingshau- 

 sen and of Prof. Karl Claus, correspondents, were announced. 




168 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



April 27. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " New Species of Mollusks from Uruguay," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 " External Features of Young Cryptochiton," by Harold Heath. 

 The following were elected members: — Henry Brinton Coxe, 

 Ferdinand Philips and Eckley Brinton Coxe, Jr. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE HISTORIES OF PLANTS, NO. XII. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



It will be seen by the dates and references in some of the fol- 

 lowing chapters, that the papers were written long ago. The 

 facts noted have been confirmed by observations made in subsequent 

 years. Some of them have been read at the meetings of the Botani- 

 cal Section of the Academy, and, though requested for publication 

 elsewhere, have been held so as to appear in this series of " Contri- 

 butions." 



Having been written at various times, when the subjects of the 

 sketches were fresh in the mind, there may be some repetition of 

 propositions. This would not have been the case had the papers 

 been prepared continuously. 



THE FECUNDITY OF HELIOPHYTUM INDICUM. 



Heliophytum Indicum, the Heliotrophim Indicum of the older bot- 

 anists, has found its way over all the tropical and subtropical por- 

 tions of the earth. It is at home in Asia, Africa and America, and 

 if it once gets a chance seed into the soil of Europe, will no doubt 

 as easily maintain its hold as other free-seeding typical weeds have 

 done. In some unknown way a few plants appeared in 1894 in my 

 garden, and have afforded me an interesting study. 



Its capacity for seed production is enormous. The cyme-branches 

 that have flowered and have, or will have, perfect seed, represent, 

 August 28th, a line of 1,224 inches. There are twenty seed vessels, 

 that is to say forty seeds to the inch, making a total of 48,960 seeds. 

 The cymes are still vigorously unfolding and flowering, and will 

 probably double these figures, but in uncertainties it is best to be 

 on the safe side; so, allowing but one-third more, we have a length 

 of fruiting rachis of 1,632 inches, and a total seed production of 

 65,280. 



All this has proceeded from a plant that was itself but a seed 

 three months before ! The total length of stem and branches sup- 

 porting these seed-bearing cymes, is but 396 inches. The plant is 

 true to the classical story of Clytie and Phoebus which gave the 

 original genus Heliotrophim its name. It does not open a flower until 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



the sun has reached the summer solstice. When the sun ceases to 

 woo it, the flower opens, only to find its beloved going away. Less 

 than three months of flowering will, therefore, have been occupied 

 in this enormous seed production. 



The facts here detailed have an important bearing on two points 

 maintained by me, in connection with the life-history of plants: — 



I have recorded numerous observations in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, commencing with 1866, showing that the growth-energy 

 of plants is rhythmic, dependent on the power of the plant, or the 

 parts thereof, to convert nutrition into the growth-force, and that 

 the various forms which plants present are the result of varying 

 phases of life-energy, in most cases of no physiological value, and 

 with which environment has little to do. The evidence furnished 

 by Heliophytum, though of a negative character, is surely strong. 

 Through the long ages the plant has been established over a vast 

 area, and consequently subjected to many varying and varied con- 

 ditions of environment ; it has continued as a compact genus or sec- 

 tion distinct from Heliotropium, without any material change that 

 would warrant a modern botanist in making new species of it. 



Again it has been maintained by me that as environment can 

 have no important influence on changes of form, the free and un- 

 trammelled production of seed would be of far more importance 

 in a supposed "struggle for life" than any power of adaptation 

 could be that depended more on an occasional cross for its increased 

 energy. Dean Swift's satire in which the Lilliputians, by the mere 

 force of numbers, are made to overcome the giant Brobdingnagians, 

 cannot be supported in every case by the histories of plants, but 

 when it comes to a question of distribution, numbers surely are the 

 more likely to hold the field. 



I think I may claim the credit of advancing the further proposi- 

 tion that a free production of seed may always be taken as an a 

 priori indication of self-fertilization. In cleistogamic flowers the 

 certainty of seed-bearing is well known. With rare exceptions the 

 huge natural order of Composite are self-fertilizers, and they have 

 managed to embrace within themselves about one-tenth of the whole 

 vegetable kingdom. Where the wind or an insect is the agent in 

 fertilization, the agent does not always come along. On plants de- 

 pendent on this outside assistance, numerous flowers fail to seed. 

 No plant so dependent ever perfects all its seeds ; in many cases 

 utter failure follows. In this remarkable plant there is no indica- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



tion that a single flower failed to mature seed. It must certainly 

 be held remarkable that in a single plant, bearing in round num- 

 bers over 30,000 flowers, every one should bear two seeds. 



It has been contended that though plants may generally self-fer- 

 tilize when the agents for cross-fertilization do not attend, they are 

 so arrauged as to cross-fertilize when the agent does appear. As 

 the Heliophytum flowers are freely visited at times on my grounds 

 by insects, and especially butterflies, there might be some strength 

 in the point. I can, however, testify by an almost daily observa- 

 tion of my plant through the season, that minute flowers are only 

 visited by insects when others are scarce. Though I have seen 

 them visiting the flowers for several successive days, there are 

 many days when they do not visit them, and none were noticed on 

 the former until the beginning of August. A careful watching of 

 the anthers shows, however, the extreme difficulty of effecting cross- 

 fertilization. The anthers form a cone over the stigma, and the 

 pollen sacs burst almost simultaneously with the unplaiting of the 

 corolla. When the flower is a few hours old the stigma protrudes 

 slightly through the anther-cap, and is visible under a lens through 

 the very small orifice of the corolla- tube. Even admitting that the 

 flower has not fertilized at this early stage, and that the tongue of a 

 butterfly might introduce foreign pollen to it under certain cir- 

 cumstances, it would rarely, in any case, occur. It is well known 

 that all insects soon discover the easiest method of doing their 

 work. In this case there are five openings between the tube of the 

 corolla and the bases of the filaments, offering a wholly unobstructed 

 course to the creature's tongue. It would have to use considerable 

 force to insert its tongue under the anthers pressing down on the 

 stigma. It is inconceivable that the flower can receive any aid to 

 cross-fertilization in this way. But we may grant that a cross-fer- 

 tilization will result in a plant better fitted for the struggle for life 

 than one self-fertilized, and that a small percentage might become 

 cross-fertilized. The question of numbers again forces itself upon 

 us. How many of the seeds of any plant get a chance to develop to 

 a plant again bearing seeds ? How many of the 65,280 seeds of this 

 plant will probably mature ; will come to be seed-bearing plants 

 next year? Only a small percentage, in any case, ever do. In this 

 case surely very few will, and of these how many would those result- 

 ing from a " chance cross " give? 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Facts of this character are common, but this case presents them 

 in such a remarkable degree, as to make it a special one Helio- 

 phytum indieum, a self-fertilizer and wonderfully productive, has 

 maintained a remarkable homogeneity amidst rare variation in the 

 environmental conditions. 



If we accept the thought frequently thrown out in these contribu- 

 tions that form results from the various degrees of rhythmic energy 

 in the plant itself, just as it would in the formation of the frost 

 crystals on a window pane, we can see that environment can not be 

 regarded as a leading agent, but must take a minor place. 



THE ORIGIN OF THE FORMS OF FLOWERS. 



In my intercourse with intelligent and observing botanists, who 

 frequently do not place their conclusions on record, I find a grow- 

 ing tendency to discredit views, till recently widely prevalent, that 

 external conditions have any more than a feeble influence on the 

 evolution of the forms of flowers. Thought is in the direction that 

 various degrees of internal energy seem rather the chief agents in 

 effecting change. 



Listening to some verbal remarks before the Botanical Club of 

 the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at 

 Buffalo, New York, by Mr. David F. Day, I was struck by his 

 point that irregular flowers were usually associated with the curving 

 or twisting of the peduncle, while regular flowers and straight pe- 

 duncles were usually closely related. I saw this subsequently well 

 illustrated in lilies. In the class to which belong Lilium Philadel- 

 phicum and L. Catesbcei, the upright flowers are perfectly regular ; 

 irregularity, in some of the floral parts, characterizing the nodding 

 ones. The nodding peduncles, after flowering, become erect, and in 

 the seed-bearing stage the seed vessels are erect on perfectly straight 

 peduncles in both classes. It is evident from this fact that in the 

 species with drooping flowers, the expansion of the perianth occurred 

 before the uncoiling energy had been exhausted, and during a 

 rhythmic rest. It is further evident that the growth-waves prevail- 

 ing in the development of the flower varied in intensity in different 

 parts, and that varying forms must necessarily follow from these 

 varying degrees of energy. Unequal pressure by reason of the 

 curve ought to be accountable for this inequality. It is, however, 

 evident that outside agencies could not have had much, if any, in- 

 fluence in the curving which results in irregularities of these lilies. 

 Some excellent illustrations are often seen where an erect flower oc- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



casionally occurs on a plant which generally has the pedicels more 

 or less curved. Some Gloxinias and other Gesneriaceous plants will 

 readily recur to the intelligent observer. Gesneria elongata, a South 

 American species, popular in garden culture, often has these erect 

 flowers. In this case the flowers are perfectly regular, and of a 

 different character in other respects from the normal ones. 



During the past season I was able to add a new illustration to 

 the list in Pentstemon barbatus. In a large bed with several hun- 

 dred flower stems, I collected some twenty erect flowers. In the 

 normal condition, the three lower segments constitute a lip, and 

 are so tightly recurved that they press against the tube ; the upper 

 two are erect, and form an upper lip. But in the exceptional flow- 

 ers noted, this is all changed. The lobes of the corolla are equal, 

 recurved, and pressed against the tube. But the most remarkable 

 change occurs in the fifth or barren stamen. In the normal form 

 this is so differently constructed from the other four that thoughtful 

 observation has to be given before deciding that it is a stamen at 

 all. In these erect, regular flowers there is not the slightest differ- 

 ence between any of the stamens. The fifth is the exact counter- 

 part of the other four. Each one of the five stamens are alternate 

 with the five regular lobes, as they should be in any well-ordered 

 regular flower. Assuredly if a plant always had flowers like these, 

 and only these flowers, it would not be a Pentstemon, but be made 

 to constitute a wholly different genus, if it were not, indeed, referred 

 to another natural order, for a two-lipped and more or less irregular 

 corolla is regarded as a leading characteristic in Scrophulariacese. 



We may say that nothing but a different degree of growth-energy, 

 accelerating or retarding the spiral development, so that that which 

 should have been left curved was advanced to (or left in) a straight 

 condition, had anything to do with the remarkable change. 



And then we may ask if such remarkably distinct forms can be 

 produced on the same plant, and in an exceptional way, what is to 

 prevent the plant from regularly exercising the same force, and thus 

 making the irregular flower the exception ? That this can be done 

 is.shown in the case of the upright and nodding lilies already cited, 

 though we have no evidence that a regular and irregular lily ever 

 grew on the same plant, as here produced by a Pentstemon. Ex- 

 amples might be found if carefully looked for. 



That these vagaries, once brought into existence, have hereditary 

 powers, is too well known to horticulturists to need more than a 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



passing notice. That they are not oftener the parents of a line of 

 new species is probably owing to the fact that of the millions of 

 seeds produced by a single plant, an extremely small percentage 

 ever get the opportunity to grow and again develop to a seed-bear- 

 ing condition. There would be little chance among so many for 

 these exceptional flowers of Pentstemon to perpetuate themselves. 



Though it would seem that in this case environment, as it is gener- 

 ally understood, could have had little to do in developing an irregu- 

 lar to a regular flower, one may plead for life-energy as the chief 

 factor in the production of form, and still leave considerable for en- 

 vironment to do. One cannot well retain as erect a position when 

 holding an umbrella against a driving storm, as if he were simply 

 shading himself on a calm summer day ; and there must be some 

 opposing elements or adverse circumstances capable of depressing 

 life-energy as a mechanical force, and with this variation in degree, 

 we may reasonably look for a change in form. But granting all 

 this it must be evident that life-energy, dependent on varying phases 

 of nutrition, is the main power in deciding form. 



SPINES IN THE CITRUS FAMILY. 



The spines which often occur in members of the Aurantiacese or 

 Citrus family are said to be axillary. We are to understand by 

 this that they are situated between the base of the leaf and the axis 

 or stem ; but they are rather lateral than axillary. Lateral spines 

 are to be considered as of stipular origin, but stipular spines are 

 usually in regular pairs, one on either side of the petiole. A single 

 lateral spine could scarcely be stipular. Pondering over these 

 anomalies with an orange tree before me, it was noted that the 

 spines varied much in size and strength. In many cases there were 

 no attempts to form spines at the nodes. In a few instances where 

 spines were wanting, the axillary buds were pushing into growth, 

 where a small point with an articulation might be noted on the bud 

 scale. In some cases there would be points on two separate bud 

 scales. With this suggestion a careful examination of the spines 

 showed clearly that they were but strongly developed bud scales, .or 

 portions of the calycine system. I could trace no articulation as in 

 the young state above noted, though the upper portion soon loses its 

 vitality, while the major part of the spine remains green and active 

 for a long time. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



175 



Fig. 1. 



Examining next some plants of Triphasic/, trifoliata which had 

 wintered in the open air, I was pleased to find the leaf origin of 

 these spines confirmed. The articulation, which the leaves of most 



of the Citrus tribe have near the junction 

 of petiole and lamina, is plainly seen in 

 these spines (Fig. 1). The part above the 

 articulation is completely dead and brown 

 as one might expect the lamina of a leaf to 

 be — the more highly vitalized spine, the 

 metamorphosed petiole, has resisted the 

 frost killing severity of the winter. 



We can thus see that the proper classi- 

 fication of the spine in the Citrus tribe is 

 with such as are borne by thistles or sim- 

 ilar plants, where the leafy bracts form- 

 ing the involucres terminate in sharp 

 rigid prolongations, which are not to be classed with spines equally 

 with the sharp apices of Gleditschia, Madura and other specifically 

 spiny species. 



FLOWERS AND FLOWERING OF LAMIUM PURPUREUM. 



One might suppose that a plant so widely spread over the world, 

 and one that intrudes itself so persistently on every one's attention as 

 Lamium purpureum, could not possibly have anything written about 

 it that would be new to botanists. But I am inclined to believe that 

 plants have not a uniform behavior in every place, and possibly the 

 behavior of species here may be different from that in the Old World. 

 These considerations make it the more important that the points I 

 have noted in the plants growing on my grounds should be placed 

 on record. 



The species is very abundant as a weed on my grounds near 

 Philadelphia. It is the form with the smaller flowers and without 

 the ring of hair below the throat that is described in the typical 

 form of Europe. It was originally introduced into my grounds 

 from Germany. It is probably the form which Willdenow regards 

 as a good species, and describes as Lamium ineisum. The hair that 

 is found in the throat of L. purpureum is absent — there is but a 

 single short tooth instead of two on the lower lip, and the pollen is 

 orange instead of bright scarlet. 



Dr. Bromfield notes " anthers with several tufts of stiff hairs or 

 bristles on the face of each cell, and according to Mr. Leighton ac- 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



companied by 6-8 small, white, oval, tuberculate bodies at their 

 base, but of which I can find no trace in my specimens, and pre- 

 sume they are, therefore, not constantly present." These tubercles 

 are only on one side of the anther, and are easily overlooked. There 

 are always six of these so far as I have examined them ; they are, 

 however, easily overlooked as they are on one side only, as already 

 noted. They are very beautiful as seen under a lens, but I have 

 been unable so far to trace their morphological significance. A small 

 gibbosity on the underside of the tube near the base seems to have 

 been overlooked and may also throw some morphological light on 

 the structure of the flower. 



An interesting peculiarity is that soon after the ringent corolla 

 opens it separates from the receptacle, the style disarticulating from 

 the carpels at the same time and falling away with the corolla. In 

 most monopetalous flowers the pistil remains after the corolla fades, 

 the corolla usually falling forward and over it. There is rarely any 

 articulation by which the style separates from the carpels as in this 

 case, and as do the stamens in many flowers of other species. 



This early fading of the flower and casting off of the pistil, indi- 

 cates that the flower may have been fertilized before the opening of 

 the lobes of the corolla. An examination shows that this is really 

 the case. When the flower is fully expanded, the stamens are 

 straight, bearing the anthers under the arched upper lip. The an- 

 thers will usually be found destitute of pollen, while the longer lobe 

 of the divided style will be found with an abundance of orange col- 

 ored pollen at the apex. It will further be noted that from the 

 relative position of the forks of the style and the anthers, the pollen 

 could not readily reach this portion of the style while in the fully ex- 

 panded condition of the flower. 



If we take a matured flower bud, just ready for expansion, 

 and carefully cut away the upper lip, we find no stamens there at 

 that stage. They, as well as the style, are bent downward, grasped 

 and held in place by the incurved lower lip. Examining these un- 

 opened flowers in the early morning we find the anther cells have 

 already opened, and the sharp stigmatic point of the lobe of the 

 style in most cases is inserted in one of the anther openings and cov- 

 ered with pollen. Between eight and nine o'clock in the morning 

 the unopened buds unfold. Slowly the incurved stamens and style 

 straighten themselves, and rise to their final positions under the 

 arched upper lip. During this process the stigmatic lobes are 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



brought into contact with the disrupted pollen sacs, and receive an 

 additional supply of fertilizing material, as if nature was taking a 

 double care in this instance that the flower should be self-fertilized. 

 The corolla at this stage seems firmly attached to the receptacle, but 

 very soon afterward it falls at the slightest touch, indicating that 

 fertilization has been perfectly accomplished. An examination of 

 the flowers at this stage will also show that the seeds are wholly 

 mature, and we have to conclude from this examination alone that 

 the fertilization was accomplished in the unopened flower. 



CI«ISTOGAMY IN UMBELLIFERJE. 



So far as I know no record has been made of cleistogamy in the 

 Urnbelliferse. In 1893 a plant of Cryptotcenia Canadensis in my 

 garden indicated cleistogamy, but as the flowering period had ad- 

 vanced considerably, further observation was left for the present 

 season. 



Cleistogamy, as usually understood, perfects seeds when the gen- 

 erative organs are enclosed in the calyx only, no attempt at form- 

 ing a corolla being made. In this strict sense the Cryptotcenia 

 would not be cleistogamous. But the plant has two classes of flow- 

 ers : one in which the stamens and corolla are highly developed, 

 with the gynoecium abortive, the other with a highly developed 

 gynoecium, stamens with comparatively short filaments, but with 

 polliniferous anthers all enveloped in a corolla extremely fugacious, 

 beneath which fertilization is accomplished before opening. The 

 fine anthers are pressed tightly against the stigma, accomplishing 

 fertilization and inducing carpellary growth before the corolla has 

 reached perfection. When this period has been reached it falls at 

 once, carrying along with it the stamens which have already per- 

 formed their functions. Though differing somewhat from the usual 

 character of cleistogamy, the action is cleistogamic surely. 



The corolla in the male flowers is more enduring than in the 

 female flowers ; indeed, as a general rule, it ia only the male flowers 

 that we notice in examining the plant. It is extremely rare to find 

 a female flower with an expanded corolla, as it falls very soon after 

 opening, and it was this seeming absence of corollas in the first in- 

 stance, yet with an abundance of fruit-bearing pedicels, that led to 

 the suspicion of cleistogamy. 



The numerous male flowers with even more perfect stamens that 

 are more abundantly pollen-bearing than those in the seed-bearing 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



flowers, with absolutely no function to perforin, present an anom- 

 aly, and yet it has a counterpart in the petal-bearing flowers of 

 many cleistogamic species, which I have found rarely seed-produc- 

 ing, though it is customary to refer this class of flowers, in such 

 cases, to an effort on the part of the species to secure an occasional 

 cross. It would rather seem that the true position of cleistogamy in 

 the economy of nature is not yet well understood. 



RHYTHMIC GROWTH IN PLANTS. 



Though the principle that plant-growth is not continuous but 

 rhythmic must have been long ago observed, 1 am not aware that 

 any special importance has been attached to it, or of any detailed 

 observations as to the time and manner of the rests and advances 

 until my paper on the Compass Plant, Silphium laciniatum, ap- 

 peared in the Proceedings of the Academy in 1870. I believe 

 it has been left wholly to me to show that rhythmic growth is 

 an important factor in the evolution of form. It is not even yet 

 recognized as it deserves to be. This consideration renders the 

 recording of additional facts desirable. 



Dr. Asa Gray, in the Synoptical Flora of North America, refer- 

 ring to the natural order Polernoniacese, says, " hypogynous disk 

 generally manifest," and " remarkable among the hypogynous gamo- 

 petalous orders for the trimerous pistil, but in two or three spe- 

 cies of Gilia dimerous." " The corolla is not always perfectly 

 regular, and the live stamens are very commonly unequal in length 

 or insertion." 



Of Phlox particularly he says, " most species with long filiform 

 style, about equalling or surpassing the corolla tube, but some 

 with short included style, perhaps but dimorphous ; but only in P. 

 subulata have both forms been found in the same species." 



Unless we remember the rhythmic character of growth, we get but 

 a poor idea of the true nature of things by the terms Dr. Gray em- 

 ploys. What do we learn of the disk by merely calling it by this 

 name ; and what is a dimerous or a trimerous pistil ? Why should 

 the stamens and style be dimorphous, and what is dimorphism in 

 this connection? Before answering these questions, let us follow 

 the development of the flowers in Phlox. 



Early in the morning of September 1st, all the expanded blossoms 

 of some heads of garden varieties of Phlox paniculata were plucked 

 out so as to watch the behavior of the unexpanded flowers. As I 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



believe growth is modified by temperature it may be noted that it 

 was cool for the season — 65° F. There was absolutely no growth in 

 the corolla until 9 A. M. Up to this time the corolla was enjoying a 

 rest, but then the lobes began to unfold, occupying about two hours 

 to reach their normal salver shape form. By opening the flowers 

 at various times before 9 A. M. we note that the authers are not at 

 rest ; they are regularly increasing in size. By 9 A. M. they have 

 reached their full development, and the cells burst and discharge 

 the pollen simultaneously with the unfolding of the corolla lobes. 

 By now opening a flower-bud that is a day behind this one in devel- 

 opment, we note that while the corolla with its attached stamens 

 was growing, the style was at rest. It evidently starts on its new 

 rhythm of growth the evening before the full. opening of the corolla, 

 that is to say when the ultimate length of the latter has been reached, 

 the style starts on its advance. It does not quite reach its ultimate 

 length when tbe anther cells discharge their pollen, but the appressed 

 stigmas receive and retain the scattered pollen grains. Returning 

 now to the corolla, we find that after full expansion, at about 11 A. 

 M., it continues without change the whole of the next day, wither- 

 ing and falling away on the third. It" may be noted, however, that 

 a very light touch causes disarticulation the second day, showing 

 that fertilization has already been accomplished. The lobes of the 

 pistil do not diverge until the second day, but it is evident that fer- 

 tilization is not dependent on the expansion of the lobes. The pol- 

 len tubes act in advance of the expansion of the lobes. 



That the morning was rather cool for the season may have been a 

 reason why no insects visited the flowers till noon. Humble bees 

 were the first in the field, rifling the sweets by cutting the tubes of 

 the corolla. The honey bee soon followed, using the slits made by 

 the humble bees, and during the afternoon several species of lepidop- 

 tera gathered the nectar by the legitimate entrance. 



The nectar is secreted by the " hypogynous disk." It is remark- 

 able, however, that I could find no exudation on the first day of 

 opening. The flow seems to commence on the second day, and is 

 most abundant when the flower is about to wither and long after 

 the fertilization of the flower has been effected. I have already 

 placed this fact on record in connection with Lonicera and some 

 other flowers. It is probably a general fact, strangely overlooked 

 in treatises showing the relation of the honeyed secretions to the 

 agency of insects in the cross-fertilization of flowers. So far as the 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897 



fertilization of Phlox is concerned, every fact pointed to self-action. 

 Insects seem to have no agency whatever in the remarkably prolific 

 results. I have before had occasion to remark that abundant fer- 

 tility in any plant is always a strong indication of self-fertilization. 

 The " dimorphism " referred to might properly be termed polymor- 

 phism. Neither the stamens or pistils can be classed distinctly as long 

 or short, but vary indefinitely. In a white variety of Phlox pyra- 

 midalis I found the style usually about two-thirds the length of the 

 tube. The stamens too, are very variable even on the same plant. 

 At times only one stamen may be seen at the apex of the throat on a 

 second-day fiower. At other times there are three, simulating a 

 three lobed style. There are, however, always to be seen two shorter 

 than the other three. These two lower and shorter are usually 

 near together, but often widely separated, and occasionally one 

 anther will be sterile. The reflecting observer will have no diffi- 

 culty in referring all these variations to the varying degrees of 

 rhythmic energy. Whether a growth-rhythm flows gently or is 

 arrested suddenly, decides the direction and degree of the rebound- 

 ing energy, of which the forms of flowers are but the outward 

 show. 



Referring now to the hypogynous disk, or nectary as it might be 

 fairly called, an examination when the seed capsule is nearly 

 mature, shows it to be formed of a fine-toothed membrane, the lobes 

 of which are opposite to the lobes of the calyx. Under morpholog- 

 ical law we should expect them to be alternate. Separating, how- 

 ever, a nearly mature capsule from the " hypogynous disk," we see 

 by the glass the imprint of five minute scales, alternate with the 

 teeth of the disk ; this furnishes the key to the problem. Between 

 the calyx cycle and the corolla cycle, there are twccycles undevel- 

 oped, of which the " hypogynous disk" is the only manifestation. 

 Nectar-bearing glands are usually abortive organs. 



We may now say that nature makes a Polemoniaceous flower 

 simply through greater irregularity than usual in the intensity of 

 its growth-waves. When the calycine leaves had been reached the 

 growth-waves were weak or they would have been bracts, and so 

 weak that enough force could not be collected to develop the next 

 cycle at all ; a partial recovery resulted only in the " hypogynous 

 disk." The corolla found a fairly steady wave, but all following 

 were unsteady, as shown in the varying lengths of the organs. 

 There should have been five carpels and five lobes to the style, but 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



as in the formation of the " hypogynous disk," the growth-waves 

 were too weak. They sometimes, however, reveal to us their un- 

 steadiness. I have frequently found but two carpels in some Phloxes, 

 while once in Phlox Drwnmondii, I found four ! 



With the facts as brought out in the making by nature of Pole- 

 moniaceous flowers, we can see how with a little better regulation 

 of the growth-energy other genera and species of plants might have 

 been created which now have no existence. The wholly suppressed 

 series might have been a five-cleft or a gamosepalous calyx, — the 

 "hypogynous disk," petals or a monopetalous corolla, and the 

 present corolla, might have been another series of five stamens. 

 With these changes other combinations appear. 



We may also see in a study of Polemoniaceous flowers how the 

 varying rhythmic strength influences the whole form of the flower, 

 as well as the development of its individual parts. Dr. Gray says : 

 "the corolla is not always perfectly regular." The tube of the 

 corolla is slightly curved in most species of Phlox. Three longer 

 stamens are always on the upper side of the curve, the two smaller 

 are the lower ones. When the seed vessels of Phlox paniculata are 

 nearly mature, the calyx is two-lipped, the three upper correspond- 

 ing to the upper or outward curve of the tube of the corolla. We 

 may say that it is the irregularity in the growth-waves resulting in 

 organs of varying degress of development, that cause irregular 

 flowers. We have regular flowers when the growth-waves of a 

 plant are all of a uniform intensity. 



PELLUCID DOTS IN SOME SPECIES OF HYPERICUM. 



Many species of Hypericum present small black dots on the stems, 

 leaves or other portions of the plant. In H. corymbosum Muhl., 

 the stem and lower leaves have these dots profusely scattered over 

 the surface, those on the stem being generally somewhat elongated, 

 after the manner of suber cells as usually seen in the young bark or 

 epidermis of woody plants. Examining the series of leaves in suc- 

 cession up the stem, we find the uppermost leaves nearly destitute of 

 black dots, a few being found chiefly near the margin. Starting 

 again from below upward, we find that as we advance the pellucid 

 dots, wholly absent in the lowermost leaves, begin to be compara- 

 tively scarce near the midrib. As they come into existence, the 

 black dots disappear. The pellucid dots increase in numbers with 

 each series of leaves — the black dots seem to give up the ground to 

 the pellucid ones — till, when the much reduced leaves beneath the 

 13 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



flower are reached, scarcely any but the pellucid dots are found. 

 They reappear again in numbers on the petals. 



It is singular that though there is an evident correspondence in 

 the increase of pellucid dots and the decrease of the black dots, no 

 genetic relationship can be discovered. In no instance was there 

 any evidence of a transmutation of a black dot to a pellucid one. 



The dotted structure of other species growing on my ground was 

 therefore examined. These were Hypericum perforatum, H. Buck- 

 leyi, H. Kahnianum of our country, and H. Androscemum, H. caly" 

 cinum and H. Moserianum of the old world. H. perforatum fur- 

 nished the most interesting subject for comparison. The lower 

 leaves, given up wholly to black dots in H. corymbosum, had only 

 pellucid dots, and in none of these were black dots numerous. In- 

 deed, it was only in the uppermost leaves that a few black dots were 

 found, and these sparingly distributed near the outer edges. On 

 the petals also the black dots are sparingly found. 



It is apparent from what has been stated in regard to H. corym- 

 bosum that the energy productive of the black dots is different in 

 degree from that productive of pellucid dots. We may further con- 

 clude that these varying degrees of growth-energy had but little 

 to do with the differentiation of these two species. One species 

 could readily be transformed to the other as each degree of energy 

 was in control. 



In H. Kalmianum and H. Buckleyi pellucid dots are profuse. No 

 trace of black dots could be found. From what has been already 

 noted, they are not to be expected where the pellucid dots abound. 



In the European H. Androscemum the whole surface is minutely 

 pellucid-punctate. The mid-rib and veins are also pellucid. At 

 various points along the lines of these veins are, however, small 

 swellings, more or less orbicular, as if they had been originally 

 pellucid dots, and that lines had been thrown out to connect the 

 dots with each other. In H. calycinum there are similar connec- 

 tions, and besides a few scattered pellucid dots ; but these are not 

 round but pyriform, one end tapering into a narrow tail. If a little 

 more prolonged, we should have just such connections as we find in 

 H. Androscemum. In H. Moserianum, we find the surface profusely 

 covered with dots, not very pellucid, apparent though they are when 

 held up to a bright light. Some of these are wholly individualized 

 and isolated, but others have sent out a line as yet unconnected, but 

 the great majority have had the lines connected, and have formed a 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



mass of reticulated veinlets unequalled in any other species I have 

 seen. Turuing to Hyperium prolifieum I find many semi-pellucid 

 dots in the petals, especially near the margin, and some of them 

 elongated, and in a number of cases they have met others and 

 formed an elongated pellucid vein. 



I think these pellucid dots are the initial steps taken by the plant 

 in the formation of veinlets and veins. It cannot for an instant be 

 conceived that nature first makes a skeleton leaf and then covers it 

 with parenchymatous tissue. These strengthening ribs must be 

 constructed out of cell-tissue only as the organism needs them. And 

 this construction can only go on under a regularly arranged system. 

 There can be no theoretical reason against the view I have taken of 

 the nature and office of these pellucid dots. 



I think little has been written regarding the variable character of 

 these dots. The only author I have found is Bromfield, who was, 

 in a measure, my early patron and preceptor in botanical study. 

 In Flora Vectensis, writing of H. perforatum, he takes occasion to 

 note the difference in the character of the dots in various species, 

 which, in some, take the form of anastomosing pellucid veins. " I 

 do not find," he concludes, " any notice taken of this character by 

 any author I have consulted." I have seen none since his work ap- 

 peared in 1856. 



HONEY GLANDS OF FLOWERS. 



It is impossible to take up any subject connected with the be- 

 havior of plants without a thought of the wonderful labors of Dar- 

 win in the same line. We owe him warmest gratitude for the di- 

 rection he has trained us to folhpw. But some of us believe that the 

 great field of vision he opened up to us is broader than ever he him- 

 self suspected, and that many more behaviors of plants are to be 

 seen and interpreted than it was given to him to behold and ex- 

 plain. It is, moreover, clear that the a priori line on which he 

 started must naturally bias judgment. It is not in human nature to 

 be free from such bias. Feeling that every act and behavior of a 

 plant must originate in a selfish effort for its own good, the doctrine 

 of natural selection naturally followed. The natural condition of 

 life being that of continual war, every effort of a plant was to secure 

 some advantage in this great struggle. Whatever helped this view 

 could not but be welcomed, even by one who was so unusually fair 

 minded as Darwin. Whatever did not accord with his premises, 

 could not be considered as of much importance. Some of us have 




184 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



departed from the path of our great leader. To us it seems that 

 while selfishness is an undoubted condition of existence, self-sacrifice 

 is equally a natural law. It appears to be the higher development 

 of the original condition — the raison <T etre why selfishness exists. 

 Facts which Mr. Darwin would treat lightly, we may be pardoned 

 for desiring to see more clearly elaborated. 



The honey glands in flowers have been, in Mr. Darwin's view, so 

 closely related to the encouragement of insect visitors, that their 

 production where they could have little reference to the fertilization 

 of flowers is lightly treated. He refers 1 to an observation of Karr 

 that the bracteas of some orchids secrete nectar, that Fritz Muller 

 has seen a similar behavior in the bract of Oncidium in Brazil, 

 and that Mr. Rodgers had seen a similar secretion from the base of 

 the flower-peduncles of Vanilla. That he could have seen this fre- 

 quently in the species of orchids under his own observation is prob- 

 able. He names Phaius as one of the genera in which he exam- 

 ined the flowers for nectar. 2 I am sure I have seen honey glands 

 similarly situated in many orchids, but they are very evident in 

 Phaius grandifolius, a common species under cultivation, and prob- 

 ably the one Mr. Darwin had under observation. 



I have had before mefor a coupleof weeks past 

 a Nepalese species not uncommon in gardens, 

 Cymbidium aloeifolium, in which the copious 

 supply of nectar from the base of the bract, or 

 rather from the main stem at this point, attracts 

 general attention. It will be of interest to de- 

 scribe the development of the infloresence in 

 detail. The spike has sixteen flower buds on it. 

 The peduncles are at an acute angle with the 

 main stem, and perfectly straight until the 

 bud has reached its full size and is ready 

 to expand. When this stage is reached, the 

 peduncle takes a horizontal position and then makes a twist curv- 

 ing upwardly, and the labellum, which up to this time had formed 

 the upper portion of the perianth, becomes the lower. Many days 

 before this occurrence the nectar commences to ooze from the gland 

 at the base of the bract. Long before the opening of the floral seg- 

 ments the globule has reached its full dimensions of two or three 



1 Fertilization of Orchids, Chap. IX. 



2 Ibid. Chap. V. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



lines in diameter. It soon hardens on exposure to the atmosphere, 

 and has a high degree of viscidity from its earliest appearance. 

 Considerable force must be exerted in expelling it from the tissues 

 of the plant. Mr. Darwin's explanation is that in these cases the 

 excretion is for the sake of getting rid of superfluous matter during 

 the chemical changes which go on in the tissues of plants. But as 

 starch is necessary for storage, and plants generally have no super- 

 fluity of the article, why should the plant labor to form that which, 

 in this case, must be the wholly superfluous article of nectar. To 

 get over this difficulty Mr. Darwin had already suggested that nec- 

 tar was in the earlier ages of plant life always superfluous. That 

 insect life at first had no knowledge of its existence or value, and 

 that on discovering it, insects and flowers became gradually more 

 correlated. 



So far as we can now see these secretions render the plant no ser- 

 vice whatever in the great battle of its life, and this Mr. Darwin 

 frankly owns. To him it is an act of excretion of useless matter. 

 To us who believe that individual life is not* wholly for itself, but 

 that every act is of some use in the general economy of nature, the 

 new field opened up is one of extreme interest. Observations in 

 this beautiful field are too limited to warrant any general deduction 

 as to the purpose of these stem-bearing glands. The object of this 

 paper is to draw the attention of those who may have orchidaceous 

 plants to a closer examination of their structure, and to encourage 

 a record of such observations. 



VARYING PHYLLOTAXIS IN THE ELM. 



Calling, a few years ago, the attention, of Dr. John Macfarlane, 

 then assistant botanical instructor in the University of Edin- 

 burgh, to a bed of one year old seedlings of Ulmus Americana and 

 that many of them had opposite leaves, he further observed that 

 each form had been so characterized from the earliest development 

 of the plant. They were either alternate or opposite from infancy, 

 and had adhered strictly each to its separate character through the 

 whole of the first year's growth. This bed of one year seedlings 

 probably contained ten thousand plants. In different parts of this 

 t long bed the numbers of each class varied. In places about one- 

 third were alternate leaved, in others the opposite leaves were much 

 more numerous. For the purposes of this paper it may be assumed 

 that about half were of each class. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



In another part of my grounds I had about one thousand two 

 year old plants, transplanted the previous spring when one year old. 

 Interested in learning how long the opposite leaved individuals — 

 for I assumed there must have been many of that character — would 

 continue of that class, I found that all but nine had started on the 

 opposite leaved plan from the commencement of the second season's 

 or last spring's growth. These nine continued to form opposite 

 leaves on all the leading branches, but the secondaries which pushed 

 out from the primaries during the summer, had alternate leaves. 

 One may say that by the third year all trace of the opposite leaved 

 system will disappear. 



It has been assumed in phyllotaxy that the underlying law in 

 leaf-arrangement is to provide for the very best exposure to the 

 light of the foliar organs. That leaves must have light, and that 

 leaf-arrangement must surely have some reference to this fact, needs 

 no argument to support it. But it must be obvious to an experi- 

 enced observer that leaves are very far from being always arranged 

 in the best manner t» this end. One need never go far for an 

 illustration that if advantageous exposure to light be all that is in- 

 volved, the plan could be vastly improved. There has always 

 seemed to me fair ground for believing there must be a deeper un- 

 discovered law, and I have been continually on the watch, without 

 much success, for clues to this deeper mystery. 



In the case of these elms, the pairs of leaves are decussate, 

 every other pair being exactly superposed with those beneath. 

 Such an arrangement would not be thought the most favorable for 

 the action of light. On the other hand, the alternate distichous ar- 

 rangement in these young plants, and measurably in the older ones, 

 causes the leaves in many cases to have the leaf-blade vertical, or, 

 where the nodes are not particularly distant, to have portions of the 

 leaf-blade overlapping another leaf, in effect reducing considerably 

 the available leaf surface. 



One point of special interest is that the nine trees which carried 

 over the opposite leaved arrangement through the second year are 

 much weaker in growth than the others. I think I might safely say 

 that superior vigor of growth and the alternate arrangement of the 

 leaves are correlative. 



SPECIAL FEATURES IN A STUDY OF CORNUS STOLONIFERA MX. 



Some interesting features for biological study are furnished by 

 Coraus stolonifera of Michaux, Comas alba, or the " white-berried " 

 Dogwood of many authors. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



In northern regions, in southern Canada for instance, it flowers 

 in June. Under cultivation in eastern Pennsylvania, its flowering 

 season is during the first weeks in May. When the axillary buds 

 of the past season push into growth, some of them seem more vigor- 

 ous than others. Strange to say these vigorous branches are sud- 

 denly arrested at the second node, and, instead of a continuous 

 axillary growth, the cymose inflorescence follows. The flowering is 

 over by the first of June, and the white-berried fruit matures by the 

 first of July. But the weaker growths of the past season are not 

 arrested at the secondary node, but make a continuous growth until 

 the end of June, when the axial growth is also arrested and flowers 

 follow as in the earlier instances. These branches are flowering 

 while the earlier ones are maturing seeds. So suddenly is the axial 

 growth force arrested, that the two axillary buds at the base of 

 the axis, which in the condition of inflorescence becomes the 

 common peduncle, have the growth energy communicated to them, 

 and instead of remaining dormant to make side branchlets for next 

 year, start to form branchlets now. Some idea of the intensity of 

 the growth force, and the suddenness with which the energy was 

 diverted laterally, may be inferred from the fact that these axillary 

 buds, so suddenly called into development, will elongate and 

 form a pair of fully grown leaves by the time the blossoms in the 

 cyme have become fully developed. Except that the cyme, equally 

 with its axis, is somewhat weaker than the earlier ones of the season, 

 there is no material difference in the other portions of the inflores- 

 cence. The axillary buds at the base of the earlier blooming cymes 

 push into growth with as much vigor as those on the later blooming 

 branches, and some of these terminate in inflorescence, the flowers 

 blooming in August. The facts furnish excellent illustrations of 

 the influence of arrested or accelerated growth force in changing the 

 character and habits of plants. 



Another point I have taken occasion frequently to illustrate is 

 one which I believe to be wholly my own : — that leaves by no 

 means always originate at the node from which they seem to 

 spring, but from some indefinite point in the axis below. In this 

 Comus the sudden arrestation of growth which determines the 

 flowering conditions and the lateral divergence of the growth-en- 

 ergy* produces the union of a portion of the petiole with its axial 

 growth resulting in one of the branches of the cyme. In some cases 

 the arrested leaf-blade will form a bristle-like appendage an inch in 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



length, slightly expanding to a lamina at the apex. The united por- 

 tions of the cyme-branch and petiole can be readily traced down- 

 ward towards the lower node. The separation of the edges results 

 in the usual square stem at this point. It may be remarked here 

 that one of the distinctions between Cornacese and Urnbelliferse is 

 the absence of an involucre. But here we find the tendency to dis- 

 pute even this character with the Umbelliferous order. The cases 

 sometimes given as illustrating such encroachment are not valid, for 

 the so-called involucre of Coruus florida results merely from a sec- 

 ond growth of bud scales. This occurs in many families of plants, 

 as, for instance, Pavia, Carya, Fraxihus and other genera, especially 

 in some hickories, where the rejuvenated bud scales are sometimes 

 as highly colored as in the Dogwood, and go by the name of " Hick- 

 ory-lilies." 



The appressed hair of the leaves and young branches of Cornus 

 stolonijera have been referred to as being " straight but fastened in 

 the middle, and thus appear appressed." But many will be noted 

 as having but one arm, which is as much appressed as if it had been 

 fastened at the middle. It is evidently a branched hair. The same 

 general law of sudden arrestation has evidently extended to the hair. 

 The apical growth, suddenly arrested, has driven the energy later- 

 ally, resulting in a horizontal growth on either side, as in the forma- 

 tion of the inflorescence. 



The tendency to abortion in many of the primordial parts, well 

 noted in Cornacece, may be illustrated here by some further facts 

 not hitherto specially noted. Though but one seed is produced, 

 two cells are seen in the transverse section of the carpel, and a 

 third has been occasionally observed. With a flower of four sepals, 

 four petals and four stamens, we may reasonably assume the early 

 existence of four carpels. But the stigma is usually described as 

 simple. If, however, we examine it just as the flower is fading, we 

 may note that it is really four-cleft, indicating certainly the four- 

 carpellary character of the ovarium. 



Another illustration of the prevalence of abortion is in the small 

 number of fruits which come to perfection in comparison with those 

 which fail. The flowers seem all perfect. It is safe to say that in 

 regard to seed-bearing nearly every flower is potential in all its 

 parts. Pollen and stigma are fully functionable. Indeed there is 

 scarcely a flower but is fertilized and seems to make a fair start to- 

 ward maturity. But the majority fall by the way. Though the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189" 



average number of flowers on a well-developed cyme may be one 

 hundred and fifty, it is rare to find a dozen fruits mature. Often 

 there are none. I have not been able to satisfy myself that the 

 anthers discharge their pollen on the stigma before the expansion of 

 the corolla, thus insuring self-fertilization beyond all chances, as I 

 have shown to be the case in many other instances. I have not 

 found pollen in an unexpanded flower, nor any anther that was not 

 covered with pollen in an expanded flower. The discharge of pollen 

 and expansion of the petals is probably simultaneous. The stamens 

 are longer than the style, and one may say, almost with certainty, 

 that the flowers receive only their own pollen. Facts might be 

 adduced in support of the proposition that it was an instance of 

 sterility from the lack of pollen from other flowers, but the weight of 

 evidence will, I think, favor the conclusion that its failure is from 

 abortion. In other words, the sudden arrestation of the growth 

 force disperses the energy into other channels, with sterility as the 

 result. 



The winter color of the past season's branches has attracted atten- 

 tion. The rich reddish-brown has given it the popular name of 

 " Red-twigged Dogwood." The manner in which this red tinge is 

 produced is plainly discernible. I have shown in other papers 

 that color in vegetation is mainly an incident in the struggle for 

 life of the various parts of a plant. If we cut off a branch from 

 a tree, it dies without a struggle. If a frost come early in the fall, 

 the leaves blacken and take on no bright tinge. But if we only 

 partly detach a branch from the tree, or if, in the autumn, there is a 

 struggle with physical forces before death finally assumes control, 

 the leaves color. All this I have fully elaborated elsewhere. The 

 same course is evident here. On the young bark, a few white dots 

 appear. These are incipient cork cells. For a while they are in- 

 active. As soon as they begin to develop, the epidermis turns white, 

 and at once a light pink ring encircles the vesicle. When rupture 

 takes place, a pink line extends upward and downward, and from 

 this pink line the reddish tinge becomes gradually diffused. In a 

 short time the whole of the epidermis, both of the young branch and 

 of the petioles, has a reddish-purple tinge. No one who will make 

 a few observations during midsummer will fail to be convinced that 

 the formation of cork cells is a destructive agency, and yet an 

 agency of comparatively slow action ; that color is the result of this 

 protracted struggle for life ; and that the peculiar action of the cork 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



cells, varying as it does in almost all plants, each species having its 

 own peculiar method of developing cork cells, fully accounts for the 

 red color of the annual growths in Cornus stolonijera. 



FOLIAL ORIGIN OF CAULINE STRUCTURES. 



The endeavor to conceive axial and foliar organs as morpholog- 

 ically distinct, leads to difficulties easily surmounted by the concep- 

 tion that every part of a plant is but modified leaf-blade. In striv- 

 ing to regard stem and leaf as essentially distinct entities, we become 

 wholly lost in studying the genesis of the tendril, and we are com- 

 pelled to say of them they " may be axial or they may not. This 

 may ordinarily be determined by position. Any direct continua- 

 tion of stem or branch must be of an axial nature, that is, of the na- 

 ture of stem ; and the same is true of whatever primarily develops 

 in the axis of a leaf. Conversely, whatever subtends a lateral axis 

 or branch may be taken for a leaf or foliar production being in the 

 place of such." 3 But the difficulty of carrying this idea along to a 

 consistent conclusion becomes apparent at p. 118 of the work cited, 

 where the tendrils of Cucurbitacese are pronounced " peculiar and 

 ambiguous, on account of their lateral and extra-axillary position 

 and the manner in which the compound ones develop their 

 branches." 



That a leaf and stem must be morphologically the same seems 

 proven by the well-known fact that leaves often develop into stems. 

 The author has seen buds at the ends of the leaves of the Japan 

 Umbrella Pine, Sciadopitys, and a large number of species of plants 

 are raised by florists from leaves of which Begonia is a familiar 

 example. The section of an articulated stem of Opuntia is tech- 

 nically stem ; yet the flower which, morphologically stated, is but a 

 " bundle of leaves," often shows that it is simply a whole section 

 metamorphosed. We call the deciduous portions of Taxodium dis- 

 tichum " leafy branchlets " simply because the least vigorous ones 

 perish. If all were to fall, they would be regarded as pinnate 

 leaves, and it is barely necessary to refer to the fact that numerous 

 plants bear flowers on the leaves, as a tree of the Jujube, Ziziphus 

 vulgaris, before the author as he writes, amply illustrates. 



By adopting the hypothesis that a tendril is always cauline, we 

 shall have to admit that stem is of folial origin in a study of Big- 

 noniaceous plants. A number of species have trifoliate leaves when 



3 Gray's Structural Botany, 1879, p. 54. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



the branches are comparatively weak, but when they have gathered 

 strength the terminal leaflets develop into a stroug tendril. For 

 instance in Bignouia venusta " the leaves are opposite ; lower ones 

 ternate and without tendrils, upjier ones conjugate or pinnate with 

 one pair of leaflets, and furnished with tendrils." The quotation is 

 from the Botanical Magazine, Vol. 46, p. 249, so that those who have 

 not the plant at hand, may see the different forms of leaves in the 

 plate. The one leaf has become a petiole, and is again trifid at the 

 apex — these branchlets again becoming leaflets in other species. 

 Whoever has had the opportunity to study some of the strong grow- 

 ing Bignoniaceae of Central America, must be fully impressed with 

 the woody character of these tendrils. They are as truly ligneous 

 as are those of Vitacese, which are conceded to be of axial origin. 

 When, therefore, we find a plant with a leaf normally trifoliate, 

 transform the terminal leaflet into a permanent woody tendril, it is 

 difficult to understand the necessity for the " abnormal and excep- 

 tional " view of these cases. If we say leaf-blade is the foundation 

 of all cauliue structure, we are not surprised when a leaflet of Big- 

 nonia becomes of the nature of stem, and we are not left to mere 

 position on the axis before we can determine the origin of what is 

 actually the same thing. 



POLARITY IN THE LEAVES OF THE COMPASS AND OTHER PLANTS. 



Those who try to live and learn are often suprised to find some 

 conclusion, which in earlier years we thought unassailable, sud- 

 denly shattered by the logic of facts. In my own case it is not un- 

 usual to note that beliefs which in a limited sphere seemed founded 

 on a rock, were wholly washed out when opposed by a more general 

 application. Of this class is my former faith in the polarity of the 

 root-leaves of the Compass Plant, Silphium laciniatum. 



It is just as true to-day as it ever was that the root-leaves stand 

 erect instead of curving more or less toward the horizon as the root 

 leaves of most herbaceous plants do, and that the edges of these 

 leaves are in a more or less north and south line. The faces of the 

 leaves are of much the same construction, and are presented to the 

 east and west respectively. It seems very reasonable to suppose 

 that the leaves are polar because of the similarity in the structure 

 of what would usually be the upper and lower surfaces ; that be- 

 cause both surfaces are struggling to get to the full light, and 

 having equal power neither can win, and hence the edges must 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



of necessity be in the northerly and southerly directions. This is 

 the accepted explanation of this supposed polar arrangement. 



The first blow to my faith in this doctrine was the observation 

 that though the stem leaves have an equal arrangement of stomata 

 on either surface, just as the root-leaves have, they make no attempt 

 at " polarity." Further than this many Australian and Cape of 

 Good Hope plants have vertical leaves, with an equal distribution 

 of stomata on either surface, but there is no polar direction specially 

 to the edges of the leaves. In our own country the leaves of Quer- 

 cus Catesbcei are all vertical the first year from the acorn, but their 

 edges are directed to any point of the compass. It is evident that 

 we must yet regard the question as to the cause of the northern and 

 southern direction of the leaf-edges in the Compass Plant as an 

 open one. 



If we now look over the whole field of Composite, it will surprise 

 us to note how many of this order have the whole or portions of the 

 leaf-blade vertical. Liatris, Lactuca, Chrysopsis, Tanacetum, Cir- 

 sium, Centaurea, Boltonia, Silphium, Mulgedium and Sonclms will 

 furnish numerous illustrations. No one can fail to see that this 

 results from a continuation of the spiral growth into the leaf-blade. 

 In many cases there are two spiral twists in a single leaf blade; the 

 leaves on the flowering stems of these genera are on the \ plan. 

 The epiderm is composed of five leaf bases or dilated petioles as- 

 cending spirally and lapping over each other, and this spiral mo- 

 tion is continued to the free portions which we designate as the 

 proper leaves. This spiral motion is greater in some species than in 

 others. In Liatris it is particularly marked. Not only does the 

 twist become so severe as to turn the leaf-blades strongly on their 

 edges, but extends to parts of the inflorescence. Even the style 

 branches are twisted around each other, and the styles of many dif- 

 ferent florets will coil into a tangled mass. Many other orders 

 besides Composite have the tendency to carry a portion of the 

 leaves vertical, wholly through this richness of spiral development. 

 Onagracerc furnish abundant illustrations ; and the coiling of the 

 leaves of the garden Narcissus must be familiar to many. We can- 

 not consider the condition of such leaves to have any more phy- 

 siological importance than if they had presented a perfectly hori- 

 zontal plane. 



What then is the explanation of the generally north and south 

 line of the leaves of the Compass Plant, admitting, as Ave must, that 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



the vertical position is merely the result of vigorous spiral develop- 

 ment? 



"We may get help from the behavior of plants in analogous cases. 

 I observed many years ago, and placed the fact on record in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy, that in going across the prairies of 

 Illinois, the earlier flowers of Helianthus mollis faced the southeast. 

 This I have confirmed by plants in my garden. Not only is it true 

 of this, but of other species of Helianthus. I could travel across the 

 open prairie as well by these flowers as by the leaves of the Com- 

 pass Plant. The opening flowers of many other species of plants 

 are usually in nearly one given direction. Digitalis media of the 

 Old World, has the opening flowers mostly in a direction facing 

 south. I have never found any plant, growing in a fully open place, 

 present any tendency to open its flowers in a northwardly direc- 

 tion. 



Now let us for a moment pass to the anthesis of some very early 

 spring flowers. We will take the Goat Willow, Salix caprea and 

 the Chinese Magnolia Yulan. If the male catkin of this willow be 

 in a position to catch the early morning sun, the catkin has a curve 

 westwardly ; if the aspect is such that it cannot get the sunlight till 

 midday, the curve of the apex of the catkin is northwardly. It is 

 exactly the same with the flowers of Magnolia. A very slight 

 warmth from the sun at that early stage of the season excites 

 growth, and the development of the flower being greater on the 

 warmed side causes the apex to seem to curve in the opposite direc- 

 tion. We may conclude that some such law prevails in the opening 

 of the sunflowers and others. All plants have varying phases of 

 rhythmic rest and growth ; many Composite start their daily growth, 

 as I have shown in various papers, soon after sun-rise. A little 

 extra warmth at this time, would throw the greater growth in the 

 easterly direction. A flower, the period of rest of which ceased at 

 noon time, would have its greatest development encouraged in the 

 westerly line. 



Just how such considerations as these would affect the root-leaves 

 of the Compass Plant is not clear. But if we imagine, as we may 

 from the facts detailed, that growth in the spring is favored in one 

 point more than others, and that there is a favored resting as well 

 as a growing point, we have a good clue to a sound explanation. 

 I feel assured that the final solution of the peculiar position of the 

 leaves in this plant must be sought for in this direction, and not in 

 any peculiar physiological necessity on the part of the plant itself. 




15}4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



HYBRIDS IN NATURE. 



Our gardens abound with hybrid plants. Although the garden- 

 er's skill originates them, there seems little reason why they should 

 not occur in nature. The plant desired to produce seed has its flower 

 opened by the hybridizer before it naturally expands ; the anthers 

 are removed before the pollen-sacs are ruptured, insects are ex- 

 cluded, and the next day probably, when the stigma is receptive, 

 the foreign pollen is applied. In this way hybrids are secured. 

 From the ease with which hybrids are produced in this way arises 

 the belief that hybridism in nature must be of frequent occurrence. 



It is a matter of grave importance that we decide how far this 

 belief is correct. Up to a period not remote, it was a belief that 

 what we know as a species was always a species from the earliest 

 epoch. When a distinct form came under observation that seemed 

 not to have existed from the beginning, it was regarded as a hybrid. 

 It would be accepted as a species, though deemed of hybrid origin. 

 Thus Linna?an nomenclature abounds in " hybrxda " as a specific 

 denomination. If it can be shown that these are not hybrids, but 

 have been evolved from other species under some regular law of de- 

 velopment, the importance of the question becomes apparent. 



We now accept the doctrine of evolution as beyond discussion. 

 Species do follow from other species as the world advances; but the 

 old idea is still so prevalent, that many botanists who accept the 

 tacts of evolution in a general sense are very apt to regard any un- 

 usual departure as a case of hybridism. Our modern literature 

 abounds in such instances. Supposed hybrids are being continually 

 described as actual hybrids on no other grouud than that they pos- 

 sess characters common to others already described. 



If nature intended hybrid! ty to be one of her handmaidens in 

 the production of new forms, she has strikingly failed. Let us 

 take the oak as an illustration. When the male flowers are at a 

 certain stage, a slight jarring of a branch will cause the pollen to 

 float away in little clouds discernible to the watchful eye. One may 

 readily conceive what an enormous quantity of pollen must be car- 

 ried from one tree to another by every sudden breeze. In our 

 v, ds there are rarely less than two or three species in company. 

 Not infrequently there are more, and these are usually blossoming 

 all at one time. Hypothetically, one may argue that these gregar- 

 ious species must receive one another's pollen, must cross-fertilize, 

 must result in a hybrid progeny in which every separate character- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19-% 



istic will be irretrievably lost. But the careful student of nature 

 knows that this is not so. The seed collector goes into a wood 

 which may contain White Oak, Black Oak, Scarlet Oak, Red Oak, 

 Chestnut Oak, Swamp White Oak, Post Oak, Black-jack Oak, 

 Scrub Oak, as he may do along the Wissahickon, gather the acorns 

 of each species under its particular representative, and plant them 

 with the absolute certainty that they will be true to their several 

 parentages. This could not be if the hypothetical proposition cited, 

 of free inter-pollination, were an actual fact. 



How, then, are we to account for the striking deviations from 

 typical forms which we occasionally see? I have long believed «that 

 form is the result of various degrees of rhythmic growth. It is the 

 mechanical result of varying degrees of energy. These results may 

 be noted on a single tree. On the weaker branches of a white oak 

 the leaves will be comparatively entire ; on the stronger shoots, 

 where growth-energy is rampant, the leaves will be deeply lobed. 

 In mulberries these differences must be well known. The leaves 

 on branches full of growth-vigor are lobed, but when this energy is 

 somewhat spent, wholly entire leaves follow. Surely these facts 

 must have come within the range of common observation. 



But varying degrees of rhythmic growth may not always result 

 in lobed leaves in its aspects of vigorous growth, or of entire leaves 

 in its weaker ones, because other factors interfere. We may not 

 kuow just what these incidental forces are, though we may feel sure 

 they exist. For instance, on the common red cedar we may note two 

 distinct forms of foliage: on the weaker, half-starved branches the 

 leaves are like needles and resemble those of the common juniper, 

 but on the more vigorous branches there are seemingly no leaves at 

 all ! We have to say " seemingly," for indeed there are really leaves, 

 as really so as on the weaker ones, but the peculiar growth-energy of 

 these more vigorous branches causes them to become connate with 

 the stems. On a branch a year or two old, we can easily separate 

 these connate leaves from the true bark formed beneath. 



But that there is no necessity for bringing in hybridity to account 

 for the occasional aberrations from the normal form we meet with 

 is well known to those nurserymen whose business it is to raise trees 

 in great quantities. There are just as many and just as striking 

 variations among genera consisting of a single species, or of species 

 wholly isolated from other species of the genus, as where there are 

 several. The European Oak, Ash, Linden, Beech and many others 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



furnish illustrations. The English Oak, Quereus Robur especially, 

 will furnish scores of variations that have been selected from the 

 seed-beds of nurserymen, and given distinctive names. Many of 

 these differ from each other by characters quite as striking as those 

 which distinguish American Oaks from each other ; but we know 

 they are not hybrids because there was no other species with which 

 they could intercross, and they are not regarded as species because 

 of their derivation from Quereus Robur. This would not be a true 

 test of specific rank. It still savors of the old doctrine of the special 

 formation of species which we know is not true. With our modern 

 experiences we may expect occasional wanderings from a general 

 character as a result of an unusual expenditure of force. Usually 

 these displays of energy are not able to maintain themselves. Seed- 

 lings fall back to the habits of their ancestors. If, however, they 

 should be able to maintain themselves, they are entitled to rank as 

 species. They are species and nothing else. 



Seeing, as we must, that all this is so, and must be, why should 

 we refer to hybridity to account for individual changes, especially 

 as the warmest advocates of natural hybridity rarely get beyond 

 " supposition " in any case. 



ORIGIN AND NATURE OF GLANDS IN PLANTS. 



When treating of glands, authors point out their secretory and 

 excretory functions, and describe their structure and general char- 

 acteristics, concluding with the bare statement that "besides these 

 there are others which seem to have no office in the general economy 

 of the plant." It has always seemed to me that this class of gland- 

 ular bodies deserved closer investigation, and in 1869 I contributed 

 a paper to the meeting of the American Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science, at Salem, " On the Glands of Cassia and 

 Acacia,'"* indicating that in these and some other plants the 

 "glands" could not be otherwise than abortive branches. Though 

 the paper excited no discussion, it is fair to say the proposition did 

 not seem to meet the approval of the eminent botanists attending 

 that meeting ; but, so far as I know, no further attempt has been 

 made to investigate and explain the nature of these so-called glands. 

 It has always seemed to me a fair inference that if they are but ar- 

 rested or abortive branches, we might reasonably expect to find 

 occasional instances of an advance from their depauperized state. 



4 Proceedings of Am. Ass. Ad. Science, Vol. XVIII, p. 260. 




I 



1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



This season T have had a piece of good fortune; it is' interesting 

 enough to give the discovery in detail : — 



On my grounds I have a mass of Cassia Marilandica, probably 

 fifty plants, covering an area of about sixteen square feet. The 

 leaves are, normally, abruptly pinnate, having a number of pairs of 

 opposite pinna? with a gland terminating the common petiole. The 

 base of the petiole is tumid, and usually the " gland " arises on the 

 upper surface of the petiole, just above this tumid part. This, how- 

 ever, is not constant. In some cases I found the " gland " a quarter 

 of an inch, a half inch, an inch, and, in a few cases, as much as two 

 inches away. In a few instances they were found with fully-de- 

 veloped pinnae on either side of them, presenting precisely the ap- 

 pearance of tbe terminal pair at the apex of the common petiole. 

 As the terminal one has developed with a perfect leaf in some in- 

 stances, as already noted, it must be assumed that these at the base 

 of the leaf could, under equally favorable conditions, do the same; 

 in their nature they are identical. 



Besides this positive proof, the larger basal glands will occasion- 

 ally furnish strong presumptive proof. These bodies vary much in 

 form, sometimes narrow cylindrical, sometimes nearly globular, at 

 other times are found some remarkably vigorous and ovoid. At 

 the apex may often be seen a pair of small glands in the posi- 

 tion that two opposite leaflets would occupy, with a very small 

 gland between, just as we find at the apex of the common petiole. 

 No one comparing such a gland with the apex of a leaf could come 

 to any other conclusion than that the two were normally the same, 

 except that the two leaflets had not developed, leaving only a pair 

 of glands to represent them. 



But, it might be suggested, this would only show that the gland 

 was an undeveloped compound leaf; the proof that it was an un- 

 developed branch would be still desirable. Here we have to fall 

 back on advanced knowledge in vegetable morphology. Most 

 botanists are now prepared to believe that not only are the organs 

 of flowers to be conceived of as modified leaves, but the stem itself 

 comes under the same conception. The cell is the primary plant. 

 Whatever form the plant has to take ultimately, is governed by 

 laws operating in this primary cell. The next step in the concep- 

 tion is the union of cells so as to form leaf-blade, and the next the 

 coiling of leaf-blade to form stem, the upper portion of each coil 

 finally becoming the leaf. There is abundant evidence, not neces- 

 14 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



sary to be reproduced here, that this theoretical conception of the 

 formation of stem by the mere coiling of leaf-blade is legitimate, and 

 we are left only to account for the formation of buds, which are 

 eventually to become branchlets. 



The origin of buds is readily accounted for by the operation of 

 rhythmic growth. Growth is not continuous, but progresses by a 

 system of successive waves. The node is at once the resting place 

 of the old wave and the departing point of the new. The axial bud 

 is really the termination of the old growth wave. In many cases 

 during the resting period, it starts rapidly on with the new growth- 

 wave, assuming its original position as the leading shoot, when what 

 might have been the leader from a lower portion of the system of 

 arrested nodes forming the bud, is pushed aside to become what is 

 known as an extra axillary branch. This conception I cannot 

 claim as the belief of " most botanists," as it is essentially my own, 

 supported by facts detailed in many papers, which it is not neces- 

 sary to reproduce here. 



Recalling the evidence directly showing that the " gland " must 

 be a branch arrested in development, and carrying in our minds the 

 theoretical conception of the origin of the stem and buds, we can 

 readily understand how an arrested branch has been enveloped by 

 a coiling leaf-blade or set of leaf-blades on the petioles until all that 

 is left is consolidated apex which we now call a gland, and how glands 

 of this character which appear higher up on the leaf stalks are still 

 modifications of the same character, the whole compound leaf itself 

 being of precisely the same character in its original structure as 

 what we come ultimately to know as stem and branches. 



In my paper above cited I introduced the bud system of the 

 Honey Locust, Gleditschia, in confirmation of the position assumed 

 in regard to Cassia. Here again it furnishes evidence of the sound- 

 ness of the conclusions reached in this paper. The leaves are 

 abruptly pinnate as in Cassia, but the apex of the common petiole 

 or rachis does not appear as a gland so much as it does an undevel- 

 oped bud. Occasionally, however, it does develop, and the leaf 

 then has a single developed pinnated leaflet instead of the usual 

 abruptly terminating pair. In other instances one of the opposite 

 pair is abortive, in which case the one developed assumes the role of 

 a terminal leader, pushing aside and making axillary to itself the 

 usual terminal bud or gland. This latter instance strongly sustains 

 my point that when a subordinate bud gets the opportunity to push 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



vigorously, the Avhole system of buds above, arrested in its growth 

 by some varying of rhythmic action, is pushed aside to the "extra- 

 axillary " position. 



The character of rhythmic growth-waves has not yet received 

 much attention from vegetable biologists. We know that in the 

 growth of some plants the wave progression seems regular and con- 

 tinuous, and then the form of inflorescence we term centrifugal 

 results ; at other times the rest seems but partial and is resumed 

 retro- actively, presenting to us the centripetal condition. Though 

 ignorant of the manner in which these varying phases of rhythmic 

 growth is brought about, there is no question about the fact. The 

 production of the supra-axillary bud into a spine in GlediUclda is, 

 therefore, easily explainable. Assuming, as has been done in this 

 paper, that an axillary bud is the termination of a growth-wave, 

 and that the growth which has succeeded in establishing itself as 

 leader pushed the bud — the arrested terminal branch — aside ; a lower 

 bud on the arrested branch in the more active line of the subsiding 

 growth-wave, would push into activity sufficiently to become a spine, 

 while all the upper portion of the terminal axis remains for a bud, 

 or, perhaps, a mere " gland." In this case the spine represents a 

 centrifugal growth. But when what appears to us to be a lower 

 bud, but which under the conception here adopted would be an up- 

 per one, first pushes, we may regard it as an illustration of centri- 

 fugal growth in the bud state. 



I may be pardoned for observing with some pride, while making 

 a contribution to the knowledge of other hitherto obscure phases in 

 plant life, that the deductions made in my Salem paper of twenty- 

 four years ago have been fully confirmed. 



NUTRITION AS AFFECTING THE FORMS OF PLANTS AND THEIR 



FLORAL ORGANS. 



It is remarkable that while American students of plant life are 

 leaning more and more toward the belief that variation in plant 

 structure is due to varying degrees of life energy, European botan- 

 ists seem more inclined to search for external conditions as the great 

 factor in these modifications. That internal energy must be in- 

 fluenced to some extent by external conditions is manifest to every 

 observer, but changes brought about by these outside influences are 

 rarely permanent. Efforts have been made to show that acquired 

 characters have become hereditary ; but in most of the instances ad- 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF PHE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



duoed, it has not been difficult to prove that the changes, wholly 

 credited to outside conditions, simply hastened the internal action 

 which could have been taken wholly independently of these condi- 

 tions. 



It has fallen to me to show, tirsr in a paper published in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, 1868, and subsequently in other papers, that form is the 

 result of varying degrees of life-energy, and that the degree of en- 

 ergy is due to the ability of the whole plant or portions of a plant, 

 to elaborate nutritive material. This being true, external condi- 

 tions may have to do with the supply or the character of plant 

 nutrition, but it is the constitutional power of a plant, or any por- 

 tion of a plant, to avail itself of nutrition that determines the result- 

 ing lite-energy. 



The present paper has been suggested by reading an excellent 

 memoir in the Linnean Society's Journal, Botany, Vol. XXXI. 5 

 It starts out with this proposition: "The capability of varying is 

 admittedly a general property of all living organisms, but how 

 variation is affected by forces other than natural selection we know 

 but little." 



I have shown in my address before the American Association at 

 its Montreal meeting,''' that variation is an essential condition in the 

 general order of things, and that the reasons for the innumerable 

 variations in the forms of leaves and flowers must be sought for in 

 the necessity of variety for variety's sake, and not in the mere acci- 

 dent of external conditions. In other words the internal enemies 

 of the plant, varying as they do in results from their varying de- 

 grees, would produce innumerable variations, although the external 

 conditions u ■ idly the same all over the world. 



In this paper and another correlated in the Journal of Botany 

 for January. 1896, Mr. "Burkill records the results of patient and 

 careful studies of variations in the number of stamens and carpels 

 of several species of plants in which these variations have been con- 

 spicuously known. But he starts with supposition already referred 

 to, that different external conditions govern the results, lie. there- 

 fore, divides his examination of the common chiekweed into classes 

 accordingly: plants from hayfields, damp locality, plants from a 



'a some Variations in the number of Stamens and Carpels, bv I. II. Bur- 

 kill. 

 ' •• Variation in Nature," Vol. for 1871, p. 392. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



garden rather .shaded, plants from a warm cinder hed, plants under 

 the shade of evergreens, and so on through six others. Though no 

 less than 7,951 flowers in thirteen widely separated genera were ex- 

 amined — 5,700 being of the common chickweed — the author states 

 that the results are "insufficient to establish any fact other than 

 that plants do vary," but supports " the main contention of this 

 paper that the position of the flower on the axu affects the sexual, or- 

 gans if they vary." This is simply my own doctrine on the origin 

 of sexes in flowers 7 given at the Salem meeting of the American 

 Association, that the position of the flower on the axis in relation to 

 the supply of nutrition, or the ability of the organs to avail them- 

 selves of the nutrition provided, decides the character of the sexual 



organs. 



The laborious and valuable observations in these papers result in 

 showing a correlation in appearance and disappearance of stamens 

 and carpels in their variable species. When the stamens were in- 

 creased in numbers there would be an increase in carpels and vice 

 i. A change in one organ resulted definitely in a change in 

 others. This I have observed in the common Dahlia in garden.-. 

 The ray florets in the normal " single form are pistillate, the tubu- 

 lar disk florets are hermaphrodite. In what are termed "double" 

 Dahlias — that is, when the florets become all ray-like or ligulate — 

 the purely female condition follows with the change from tubular to 

 ligulate. I believe this is true in most cases where the tubuli- 

 floral section of Composite assume ligulifloral conditions, as it is a 

 fact well worth noting in connection with this whole subject that 

 while Dahlia, Helianthus, JJe//i--, Chrysanthemum and numerous 

 other species with normally tubulifloral florets will advance occa- 

 sionally to the ligulifloral or so-called double condition of the 

 florists, I can recall no instance of one normally of the latter class 

 that assumed the tubulifloral or " single " condition. 



The observations of Mr. Burkill, as well as my own long-recorded 

 observations, show that the variations in the various organs of 

 plants cannot be accounted for under the chapter of accidents com- 

 monly known as natural selection or conditions of environment ; but 

 are arranged under a definite plan, governed by the degree and con- 

 dition of vital energy, and that this energy itself is dependent on 

 the supply of nutrition, including the life-power of the cells inter- 

 ested to avail themselves of it. 



" -eeProc. Am. Assoc, 18G9 ; also American Naturalist, 1869, p. 260. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



SOME NEGLECTED STUDIES. 



Botanical pleasures need not end with the first frost. Buds and 

 branches furnish an endless variation, and are capable of affording 

 characters quite as reliable as, and, in many cases, more reliable 

 than, those offered us by leaves, flowers or fruit. For morphologi- 

 cal or physiological study, a knowledge of the characters presented 

 by buds and branches is invaluable. 



A few days ago I came across a very thrifty Pin Oak, about 

 twenty-five years old. Along the smooth, clean trunk, during the 

 past season, a number of weak shoots had grown. I believe we 

 cannot tell how an apical cell, which seems to be required before the 

 growth of the branch can be started, can be formed out of an ordi- 

 nary wood cell and be able to push its way through a layer of bark 

 a quarter of a century old so as to produce the growth of twigs in 

 question. There is an original field here for study as well as a 

 theme for admiration. Perhaps my own discovery, published in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy many years ago, on the nature of 

 warts or excrescences on the trunks of trees, such as we very often 

 see on the Weeping Willow, the Garden Cherry and other trees, 

 may furnish an explanation. It is briefly this: New wood is 

 formed by germination from original wood cells. These are added 

 laterally during the. growing season. The last series of cells born of 

 the mother cells at the end of the season become liber cells, and give 

 the new layer of bark for the coming season. But an occasional 

 cell does not change. It continues to be a wood cell, though sur- 

 rounded by others that have been transformed to bark. It does not 

 separate from its woody matrix, but goes on forming its own addi- 

 tional wood cells, and in the autumn, its layers of bark cells in a sort 

 of colony of its own. These are developed in every direction round 

 the circular matrix, and the excrescence naturally forms a circle. 

 An excrescence, sawn asunder, exhibits the annual growths of wood 

 and the annual deposit of bark, just as the mother trunk does. I 

 have never observed the excrescences make branches. 



The manner in which buds are formed and protected at differ- 

 ent stages of their growth affords endless pleasure. In Lirioden- 

 dron the stipule encloses the younger growth, and, opening the bud, 

 we find the leaf blade has its apex fast in the axis between the 

 branch and the petiole. No one can doubt that the truncate leaf 

 results from its early casting in such a mold. In Magnolia we find 

 the same protection from the stipule, but the petiole is not bent. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



The young leaves are folded longitudinally. We can see some of 

 the processes by which nature makes Liriodendron differ from Mag- 

 nolia, but what induces the curving of the petiole in one instance 

 and the straightening in another we have yet to learn. 



Though no reference is made of the fact in descriptive botany, the 

 manner in which the base of the petiole folds over the young bud is 

 distinctive of the genus Rhus, or at least, of many species, for I 

 have not examined all. The folding is so nearly complete that no 

 axillary bud is visible. In the winter, after the leaves have fallen, 

 we see by the cicatrices that it was a fold of the petiole and not an 

 absolute over-growth. The cicatrix is precisely like that formed by 

 the fallen leaf of the Horse Chestnut, and adds another suspicion to 

 a list already by no means brief that there is a closer relation be- 

 tween the natural orders Sapindacese and Anacardiacere than sys- 

 tematists generally believe. Other species of trees, notably the Plane 

 and Yellow Wood, have similar embracing petioles. There seems no 

 physiological advantage in these cases. The young bud must have 

 some protection in infancy, and variety seems an essential part of 

 the order of things. All we can say is that this form of protector is 

 as good as any other. The internal arrangement of the bud in Rhus 

 is interesting: Two bud scales meet face to face, and closely press 

 their edges together. The interior is a cavity, but densely filled 

 with short, soft hair. 



A Sapindaceous plant allied to the Horse Chestnut, Kolreuteria 

 paniculata, a small tree from Japan, has branches interesting from 

 the fact that the petiole disarticulates at a little distance above the 

 base of the petiole, leaving lacunose cicatrices, and giving the branch 

 a singular knobby and rough appearance. Here again the teleolo- 

 gist will be at a loss, and seeing that it is no disadvantage, we can 

 only say that it gives a pleasant variation to the run of life. 



I might offer many illustrations, but enough has probably been 

 said to show how much of interest the winter season may afford. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE MAMMALOGY OF CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



In the following annotated list are presented the results of the 

 author's study of the feral mammal fauna of central Pennsylvania 

 during the past four years. The data here submitted is of three 

 kinds: first, that recorded by the author, and based entirely on 

 his own observations in the field ; second, that obtained by employed 

 assistants in the field, and verified by specimens and notes in the 

 author's collection ; third, notes obtained from other sources, the re- 

 liability of which the author has no reason to doubt. In all cases 

 where the presence or distribution of any species rests on the third 

 class of evidence the source of such evidence is stated. 



The main sources of information are as follows, in order of sequence : 



1. A collecting trip, by the author, to Pine Grove Furnace, Cum- 

 berland County, April 11 to 15, 1893. This included a visit to the 

 limestone caves near Carlisle. 



2. A collecting trip, by the author, to Round Island, Clinton 

 County, May 25 to June 1, 1896; including a side trip taken to 

 Emporium, Cameron County. 



3. A collecting trip, by the author, to Eaglesmere, Sullivan County, 

 August 20 to 28, 1896. 



4. A collecting trip, by Mr. J. C. Ingersoll, September 24 to De- 

 cember 20, 1896; collecting being done at the following stations in 

 order of sequence: a. Tuscarora, Juniata Co.; b. Mount Union, 

 Huntingdon Co. ; c. Tyrone, Blair Co. ; d. Walsall and Kring's 

 (near Johnstown), Cambria Co.; e. Summit Mills, Somerset Co.; 

 f. Cook's Mills, Bedford Co.; g. Hopewell, Bedford Co. 



Additional records and specimens have been obtained from Messrs. 

 Seth Nelson, of Round Islaud, Clinton Co. ; M. M. Larrabee, of 

 Emporium, Cameron Co. ; A. K. Pierce, of Renovo, Clinton Co.; 

 R. W. Bennett, Eaglesmere, Sullivan Co. ; and M. W. Strealy, of 

 Chambersburg, Franklin Co. To all of these, especially Mr. Nelson, 

 whose long and intimate acquaintance as hunter and trapper of 

 the animals of Clinton, Centre, Clearfield, Cameron and Potter Coun- 

 ties is excelled by none, I gladly express my thanks for valuable aid. 



The physical features of central Pennsylvania in all the localities 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



named above show but slight departure from the typical Alleghen- 

 ian scenery with which the traveller from Harrisburg to Pittsburg 

 becomes familiar in his westward route along the Juniata River. 

 The whole country is more or less crowded with parallel ranges of 

 mountains running northeast and southwest, much broken by coves 

 and cross valleys whose numerous streams empty, with the exception 

 of those of Cambria and Somerset Counties, into the Susquehanna. 



The character of the Alleghenies over this wide area conforms 

 closely to the continuous ridged type of parallel chains rising in long, 

 flat-topped ranges, which rarely present a peak or dome to relieve 

 their rounded, monotonous outlines. Their average height is about 

 1,200 feet, though an elevation of over 2,000 feet is reached in some 

 localities. With the exception of Sullivan County, nearly the entire 

 region treated in this paper is devoid of lakes, lying as it does almost 

 wholly south of the southern border of the great terminal moraine. 



Owing to deforesting and burning of the timber over the whole 

 region, the character, not only of the existing flora, but in greater or 

 less degree of the climate and fauna of the country, is more or less 

 altered from the conditions of 100 years ago. 



While this has resulted in the extinction of certain forms of rep- 

 tiles, birds and mammals from their place in the fauna of Pennsylva- 

 nia, it has not so affected the smaller mammalia, which continue to 

 find in isolated places the necessary life environment. 



Such places it has been the author's endeavor to search out and 

 thoroughly explore, in order to supplement our historic knowledge 

 of the larger exterminated species with reliable facts regarding those 

 whose subterranean and retiring habits, or restricted range, have 

 enabled them to escape the older methods of research. 



Central Pennsylvania, with the exception of the lowlands of the 

 Susquehanna below Sunbury and a large part of the Counties of 

 Adams, York, Cumberland and Franklin in the south, is dominated 

 principally by the semi-boreal climate, fauna and flora which Dr. 

 Allen has fittingly named "Alleghenian," as contrasted with the 

 colder "Canadian " of the north and the warmer Carolinian of the 

 south. In the intermediate region between these last we find the 

 most puzzling gradations of animal and plant forms. On the high- 

 est elevations, however, faunal distinctions are well marked and 

 in strong contrast with those of the southern lowlands. The most 

 boreal environment encountered in my investigations was at Eagles- 

 mere, in Sullivan County, the only place in which the typical 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



form of Peromyscus canadensis has yet been secured. It is significant 

 that here also is to be found one of the largest tracts of old-growth 

 evergreen timber in the State. It is probable that systematic trap- 

 ping in the tamarack swamps of the more northern Counties of Bed- 

 ford and Susquehanna will show this and other " Canadian " species 

 to be abundant. South of this, however, along the entire eastern 

 extension of the Allegheny system east of the main ridge there 

 seems to be an absence of this species, but in Cambria County and in 

 Somerset County, near the Maryland line, there appears in the hem- 

 lock forests a form seeming to connect, in its diminished size and 

 darker colors, the Canadian Peromyscus with a similar species dis- 

 covered by the writer in the spruce forests which crown the lofty 

 summit of Roan Mountain, N. Carolina. The Red-hack Vole, Evoto- 

 mys, also reappears in Somerset County, the most careful trapping in 

 the intermediate region of Juniata and Huntingdon Counties failing 

 to reveal it. From these facts it would seem that the southern 

 extension of the typical Alleghenian mammals found in the northern 

 counties of the State is confined to a narrow strip of the main 

 western ridge through Clinton, Centre, Blair, Cambria and Somerset 

 Counties into West Virginia. In the latter State, owing to the 

 increasing elevation of the southern Alleghenies, these northern 

 types of mammalian life are enabled to bridge the warm Carolinian 

 zone as far south as northern Georgia, insensibly, but surely, appro- 

 priating those subtle modifications by which the climate of the 

 southern mountains has transformed Peromyscus canadensis into 

 Peromyscus nubiterrce, Evotomys gapperi into Evotomys carolinensis, 

 and Sciuropterus sabrinus into Sciuropterus silus. 



The author's collection of central Pennsylvania mam nials, forming 

 the basis of this paper, numbers about 600 specimens, the greater 

 part of which are skins and skulls, with careful measurements and 

 data taken in the field. Of these nearly 400 were taken by my 

 assistant, Mr. J. C. Ingersoll, during the fall of 1896, as already out- 

 lined, and represent an amount of laborious mountaineering and con- 

 scientious care, which not only do him the greatest credit but form 

 the only available means to a right understanding of the character 

 and distribution of the smaller mammals of the south-central portion 

 of the Commonwealth. The l*st enumerates 61 species and sub- 

 species. Of these 10 are listed as subspecies, 3 are exotic species, 2 

 (Black Rat and Lynx) are probably exterminated, and 3 (Bison, 

 Wapiti and Beaver) certainly exterminated. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



1. Didelphis marsupialis virginiana (Kerr). Virginia OpoH?um. 

 Numerous in the southern valleys, rare on the higher mountains, 



and not found within the denser evergreen forests of the northern 

 counties. As these are cut off the opossum extends its wanderings 

 into the clearings of mountains where it had hitherto been a stranger. 

 " Tii Clinton County very rare, one killed in 1895 " — Nelson. " Rare, 

 last winter two taken at Emporium" — Larrabee. "Coming in 

 rarely around Eaglesmere in the last six years " — Bennett. " Well 

 distributed throughout the southern Alleghenies " — Ingersoll. 



2. Bison bison (L.). Arnericsin Bison. 



The former range of the bison eastward along the West-branch of 

 the Susquehanna to the forks of the river below Lewisburg during 

 the present century is conceded by Dr. J. A. Allen. 1 The last buffalo 

 killed in central Pennsylvania was shot about the year 1800, by Col. 

 John Kelly, in Kelly Township, Union Co., five miles from Lewis- 

 burg. The former presence of the bison in the western part of 

 Bedford County is attested by the names given to Buffalo Mountain, 

 Buffalo Creek and Buffalo Mills in that County. This forms a con- 

 necting link between the numerous herds of buffaloes formerly rang- 

 ing over the Ohio River drainage in western Pennsylvania and the 

 sparsely scattered bands which may have passed over the watershed 

 into the Juniata valley at this point. The presence of sulphur 

 springs in this vicinity with the associated open glade country is well 

 known to be a favorite place of summer resort for this species, and 

 it is significant that a tributary of the Juniata in Perry County is 

 called Buffalo Creek. For further information regarding the east- 

 ward range of the buffalo in pre-Columbian times to the Delaware 

 valley the reader should cousult the author's paper in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1895, 

 pages 244 to 248. 



3. Cervus canadensis (Erxl.). Wapiti, American "Elk." 



The former range of this animal in Pennsylvania was closely co- 

 extensive with that of the Bison, both species using the same trails, 

 feeding grounds and licks among the western Alleghenies and pass- 

 ing thence eastward by the same routes to the Delaware valley. The 

 elk was most numerous among the elevated mountain glades and 

 eastern tributaries of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers. It 

 was also fairly abundant in the early part of the century in Clinton, 



1 Monog. Amer. Bisons. — Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., 1S76. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Potter, Tioga and Lycoming Counties. The latter named regions 

 formed the hunting grounds of my veteran friend, Seth I. Nelson, 

 whose diary between 1831 and 1837 shows that he killed 22 elk 

 during the period. Six of these were killed in 1833. The horns of 

 one of these were so large that Mr. Nelson, who is about 5 ft. 2 in. 

 high, told me he conld stand erect beneath the skull when the head 

 was inverted with the antler tips touching the floor. Mr. Nelson 

 stated that one of the last elk known to have been killed in that 

 region was secured on Bennett's Branch in Elk County by a party 

 of Cornplanter Indians about 1865. A hunter named AVilson 

 Morrison brought the carcass of an elk about that time to Lock 

 Haven, claiming that he killed it. But it was afterward understood 

 that he had paid $25. for it to the Indians." 



The range of the elk and buffalo into the south central counties of 

 Pennsylvania, east of Fulton County, is very improbable, if, indeed, 

 they ever wandered that far. The main line of their eastern range 

 on Mason and Dixon's line was probably along the valley of Castle- 

 man's River in Somerset County and the main ridge of the Alle- 

 gheny mountain near that place, which formed a continuous trail of 

 safety between their haunts in West Virginia and the Keystone 

 State. North of this region their range probably spread northeast- 

 ward as far south as the Juniata valley, but by far the largest 

 n limber did not come south of the east and west branches of the 

 Susquehanna. The presence of an Elk Mills and Elk Creek in 

 Chester Countv. and of an Elkton in Cecil Count v, Maryland, would 

 indicate their former presence in that vicinity, probably only as 

 stragglers along the Susquehanna valley. 



The only specimen of Pennsylvania elk known to me is an adult 

 male in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. It was shot by a white hunter in 1853, in McKean County, 

 and was purchased for the Academy by a club of members. 



4. Dorcelaphus americanus (Erxl.). Virginia Deer. 



With the probable exception of York and Adams Counties, there 

 is not a county in central Pennsylvania, between latitudes 79° 30' 



"Since the above was in type Mr. Nelson sends me a clipping from the 

 Utica Saturday Globe giving a detailed account of the discovery of a bull elk 

 by himself and Ira Parmenter on the headwaters of Bennett's Branch in 

 1*867. A veteran Indian hunter of the Cattaraugus Reservation, named Jim 

 Jacobs, trailed this elk simultaneously with Wilson and Parmenter into the 

 headwaters of Clarion river, where the Indian, by superior cunning, made a 

 circuit and killed the game in a laurel thicket before the white hunters 

 arrived. Mr. Nelson writes me that this account is correct. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209" 



and 76° 30', where the Virginia Deer does not now exist in a wild 

 state. In some of these it is practically exterminated, occurring 

 in its former haunts only as a straggler. In none of these is it 

 common, even in the most protected wilds. 



Of the localities known to the writer, those most frequented 

 by deer are the headquarters of Loyalsock Creek, Sullivan Co., the 

 northern part of Clinton County, and Licking Creek in the northern 

 part of Fulton County. 



Seth Nelson (Jr.) killed 23 deer in the fall season of 1873, chiefly 

 in Clinton County. In. the period between 1861 and 1865 the deer 

 became so numerous in that county that they greatly damaged the 

 crops, and snaring was employed to diminish their numbers. In con- 

 trast with this there were killed in 1895, in his vicinity, all told, only 

 ten deer, and most of these out of season, by wild hounds or pot 

 hunters. The chief agencies in the extermination of deer are forest 

 fires and wandering dogs, both of which pursue their relentless course 

 during the entire year, the latter being ten times as destructive as 

 the gray wolf ever was. 



5. Lepus sylvaticus Bachin. Carolinian Wood Hare. 



With the exception of the deepest evergreen forest areas on the 

 higher mountains, no locality in Pennsylvania is a stranger to this 

 abundant species. In the northern counties, at higher altitudes, it 

 is represented by the following race. 



6. Lepus sylvaticus transitionalis Bangs. Alleghenian Wood Hare. 



Two specimens, almost typical of this subspecies, as described by 

 Mr. Bangs, were recently received from Mr. Nelson, who took them 

 near his home in Clinton County. A specimen from Summit Mills, 

 Somerset Co., taken by Mr. Ingersoll, shows a near approach to the 

 Clinton County specimens ; but four others, from the same locality, 

 are nearer sylvaticus. As the higher forested mountains are cleared, 

 this is the form of" Cottontail Rabbit " which replaces the now nearly 

 exterminated "Snowshoe Rabbit" or Varying Hare. 



7. Lepus americanus virginianus (Harl.). Alleghenian Varying Hare. 



This southern race of the Northern or Varying Hare is rapidly 

 approaching extinction in the greater part of the Pennsylvania Alle- 

 ghenies once inhabited by it. In the more retired tamarack and hem- 

 lock swamps of the northern counties this hare is fairly numerous, 

 but they remain only in isolated places on the main ridge of the 

 western mountains, southward. In the region traversed by Mr. 




210 PROCEEDINGS F THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



_:rsoll they were not known at Tusearora, Juniata Co. They 



were reported a? yet occurring in the western part of Huntingdon 



i in Blair I . " miles west of Tyrone. The old hunters 



: rmerly knew of them, but they had 

 d killed off severe; - . same report applies to Somer- 



t1 -'iue were thought likely to remain on Laurel 

 Eidge in the nor: si rn corner of the county. 



"Becoming and local in Clin: — Nelson. "Numerous 



in C unty. but decreasing as the woods are cut off'" — Lar- 



rabee. " . at about Eaglesmere " — Bennett. 



8. Ere thixoii dorsal s 



In the mountains of the northern counties as far south as the W 



Branch of the Susquehanna the porcupine is frequently met with, 



and somt alities is quite abundant, as in Clinton and Sullivan 



A: :':. - us records are obtainable, 



- animal - ir in southern Pennsylvania, though Mr. 



Ingersoll was told by a farmer, Abraham Hay. of Summit Mills, 



that he saw one that was killed near Bakers ville, Somerset County, 



15 j - a A mountaineer i; Wildmann told Mr. Ingersoll 



that he had heard of one being killed in northern Juni: .nty 



on the Black E a I amain. East and south of a line connecting 



the last two places the rai _ - : the porcupine probably rarely ex- 



3 from hunters in Franklin and Cumberland 



58 - me t that 1 ever lived in their 



lin: 



a Bearer. 



I ere is little doubt that this animal is wholly exterminated over 



the entire Commonwealth. So long ago was th> rd that no 



-on with whom I have communicated has met with them. Mr. 



.son. who hunted in the thirties in Potter County, when 



that county was largely covered with virgin forest, and the elk, wolf 



and pekan were still numerous, never met with the beaver. In con- 



:his we hav llowing statemei - bis son, Seth 



: •• The last [beaver taken in I tte] was killed on 



Pine Creek nine years ago [1884]. A part of Pine Creek is in 



Clinton County, part in 1 County, and part in Tioga County, 



but the beaver was started in Pc: unty and followed down 



through T a ..nd killed in Clin: 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



10. Zapus hudsonius ' Zimin. '. Meadow Jumping M 



While reported as a well-known species in all localities, I failed 

 to get any specimens. Mr. Ingersoll secured none during his expe- 

 dition, perhaps on account of the mice having gone into winter quar- 

 ters. He heard of them at Tuscarora and at Hopewell, in both cases 

 the meadow species being designated. 



11. Zapus insignis Miller. Woodland Jumping Moose. 



The first Pennsylvania specimen of this species was taken by my 

 friend, Wm. A. Shryock, near Pocono, Monroe County, and recorded 

 in the American Naturalist in 1894. In the summer of 1896 I ex- 

 amined a mounted specimen in the collection of Mr. A. K. Pierce, 

 of Renovo, who stated it was taken in a hemlock ravine near Howard 

 Station, Elk County, a few years previously. Two specimens were 

 taken near Eaglesmere by me in August. LS96. 



This species may perhaps be found as far south as >.>n,er-et 

 County, along the culminating ridge of Allegheny Mountain, but its 

 predilection for to the northern Alleghenian region seems pretty 

 well proved. 



12. Synaptomys cooperi Baird. Cooper's Lemming Vole. 



The first Pennsylvania record for this mouse was given in 

 paper on the mammals of Monroe and Pike Counties. 3 Mr. Ingersoll 

 captured five in a springy meadow at the foot of the low mountain 

 near Kring's Station, Cambria County, close to the Somerset County 

 line. They were all taken within a space of 50 acres, in runways 

 among high grass and matted herbage near an old clearing. During 

 the time covered in trapping them about six times as many meadow 

 voles were taken in the same spot. Xo other specimens have been 

 met with in central Pennsylvania, 4 though the species undoubtedly 

 occurs in isolated places throughout the northern and western parts 

 of the region. The Kring's series agree perfectly with specimens 

 from northern New Jersey and Roan Mountain, Xorth Carolina. 



13. Evotomys gapperi (Vig.i. Gapper's Wood Vole. 



Wherever the coniferous woodland remains undisturbed in the 

 Allegheny region this species abounds in moist ravines and swamps. 

 Beyond these situations it rarely wanders, although two specimens 

 were taken on the dry, rocky summit of Negro Mountain, Som 

 County, along the wooded cliffs inhabited by Xeotoma magister. 



3 Proc. Acad. X. Sci., Pbila., 1894, p. 391. 



4 A voting male specimen iust received, was taken in Clinton Counts, April, 

 1S97, by Mr. Nelson. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Specimens in the author's collection were taken at the following 

 localities: Eaglesraere, Sullivan Co., 4; Round Island, Clinton Co., 

 3 ; Summit Mills, Somerset Co., 22. Mr. Ingersoll did not find any 

 in the Alleghenies except at Summit Mills, probably more on account 

 of the lack of suitable environment for them in places visited than 

 because this species is not found in the isolated hemlock swamps 

 which yet exist in Juniata, Mifflin and Huntingdon Counties. 



Comparison of a large series of Pennsylvania and northern New 

 Jersey Evotomtjs with series from Quebec shows remarkable external 

 similarity, there appearing no tendency to variation which can be 

 said to be constant. 



14. Microtus peimsylvanicus ^Ord). Wilson's Meadow Vole. 



Abounding in open situations throughout the district up to highest 

 elevatious where food supply abounds. 



A somewhat remarkable color variation in this unusually constant 

 species is found among the fine series taken in Juniata, Huntingdon, 

 Blair and Somerset Counties by Mr. Ingersoll. Nearly all the speci- 

 mens, compared with examples from the New England, New Jersey 

 and eastern Pennsylvania, are noticeably browner, even in the half- 

 grown young. About a dozen of the adults are of two shades of 

 umber-brown over the whole upper parts, two from Tuscarora being 

 almost a deep blackish chestnut. It is somewhat remarkable that 

 all these umber specimens, except one from Bedford County, are 

 females. Other specimens of both sexes taken in the same localities 

 with these do not differ markedly from typical pennsijlvanicus. The 

 cranial characters of the brown specimens seem to belike those from 

 Philadelphia County. 



15. Microtus pinetoruni (,LeC). Pine-woods Vole. 



Occurring in south-central Pennsylvania ; but no specimens have 

 yet come to my notice other than those recorded from Carlisle by 

 Prof. Baird. It has not been found in the higher mountains, nor in 

 the northern counties. 



16. Fiber zibethious ^L.). Muskrat. 



This abundant, and in many cases most destructive of the Rodentia, 

 holds its own in all parts of its extensive habitat. It seems neither 

 to increase nor diminish in numbers, whatever may be the agencies 

 exerted for or against it. 



17. Peiomyscus leucopus (Raf.). Carolinian Deer Mouse. 



This verv common mouse shows but slight variation from the 

 typical form of the Ohio valley, throughout central Pennsylvania. 




1897] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



It is found in all wooded parts of the State, at all altitudes ; its range 

 somewhat overlapping that of P. canadensis in the borders of the 

 denser evergreen forests of the northern coiiDties. As in the cases 

 already cited under Mierotw pennsylvanicus there is a strong tend- 

 ency in the Deer Mice of the Juniata river watershed to assume a 

 darker, deeper shade of brown than the normal colors seen in eastern 

 specimens. 



18. Peromyscus canadensis (Miller). Canadian Deer Mouse. 



Four typical specimens of this distinct species were taken in the 

 primeval forest about two miles from Eaglesmere. They were not 

 found in a similar forest in Clinton County, leueopus only being 

 taken there. It is likely that typical canadensis is not found in 

 Pennsylvania except along its northern border, in the most boreal 

 environments of the mountain tops in isolated localities. Along the 

 culminating ridge, southward, it intergrades into the following sub- 

 species, inhabiting the loftier summits of the southern Alleghenies. 



19. Peromyscus canadensis nubiterrae (Rhoads). 5 Cloudland Deer Mouse. 



Of great interest, as showing the true relationships of the long- 

 tailed, dusky deer mouse of the balsam forests of Tennessee and 

 North Carolina, is a series of 29 Peromyscus taken in Cambria and 

 Somerset Counties, Pennsylvania, by Mr. Ingersoll. Nine of these 

 were trapped at Kring's Station, the remainder at Summit Mills. In 

 size and proportions these are conclusively connectant between the 

 large form found in Canada and New England and the diminutive 

 cloud-dweller of the Great Smoky Mountains. In color the Penn- 

 sylvania series shows a marked tendency to assume the dark brown 

 shades of the upper parts, which distinguish nubiterrcB from the 

 ochraceus gray of canadensis. The wide, dark dorsal area charac- 

 teristic of Roan Mountain specimens is also apparent in those from 

 Somerset County, but the pencil of white hairs at the anterior base 

 of ear in canadensis, absent in nubiterrce, is retained by all in the 

 series taken by Mr. Ingersoll. 



An average of four of the larger adults of canadensis from Peter- 

 boro, New York, recorded by Mr. Miller, gives the following measure- 

 ments in millimeters: total length, 190; tail vertebrae, 99 ; hind 

 foot, 21.5. Similar measurements of four specimens from Somerset 

 County are : total length, 180 ; tail vertebrae, 91 ; hind foot, 22 ; 

 while those of nubiterrce respectively are 167, 86 and 21.5. The 



5 P. leucopus nubiterrse Rhoads; Proc. Acad. N. Sci., Phila., 1896, p. 187. 

 15 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



skulls of the three series show a parallel gradation in size southward 

 from canadensis to nubiterrce, but no diagnostic features of a higher 

 grade to distinguish the two extremes. It is of interest to note that 

 the decrease in size of body as the species nears the Carolinas is not 

 correlated by a shortening of the tail and hind feet, but that these 

 members are relatively lougest in nubiterrce. 



Mr. Ingersoll makes the following notes on this subspecies: 



"Peromyscus canadensis I took only at Krings in Cambria Co. and 

 at Summit Mills in Somerset Co. 



"At Kring's they seemed to prefer the most retired and secluded 

 places, especially the narrow and deep wooded valleys with little 

 streams flowing through. The first I caught were in such a place, 

 the timber being mostly oak and beech and maple, with here and 

 there a hemlock. Many old and decaying logs and stumps offered 

 them pleasant homes, and nowhere else in that locality did I find 

 them so abundant, and never did I find any at any great distance 

 from the water, nor more than halfway up the low mountain. Pero- 

 myscus leucopus and Blarina brevicauda were also taken in the same 

 places. 



"At Summit Mills, a region altogether higher, canadensis seemed 

 to have replaced leucopus entirely, and there I took them everywhere, 

 in stone walls along the edges of fields grown up to briars and 

 bushes, in oak woods and in hemlock woods, and one in a trap set 

 among the rocks on the top of a mountain for Rock Rats [JV. mag- 

 ister~\. I caught a rat in the same place. Traps set for Evotomys in 

 low, damp ground also often caught P. canadensis.'" 



20. Neotoma magister Baird. Allegheny Cave Rat. 



So far as I have been able to discover, this rat has been taken in 

 the following localities in middle Pennsylvania: 



Clinton County : — " Plentiful in our rocky mountains " — Nelson. 

 " In mountains near Renovo " — Pierce. 



Cambria, Somerset and Bedford Counties: — "Found locally in 

 the tops of the mountains " — Ingersoll. 



Adams and Franklin Counties : — " In rocky gorges in South 

 Mountain, near Graffensburg " — M. W. Strealy. 



Cumberland County : — Living among Lewis's Rocks (type local- 

 ity of N. pennsylvanica Stone) — J. G. Dillin, S. N. Rhoads. Lime- 

 stone caves near Carlisle and opposite Harrisburg (type locality of 

 fossil N. magister Baird) — S. F. Baird. 



Specimens (both recent and fossil) in the collections of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and of the writer, rep- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



resent all of the above named localities except GrafFensburg. Speci- 

 mens from the latter place were examined by the author. 



The hunters in Sullivan and adjoining counties deny the existence 

 of this rat in that region. I could find no signs of them around 

 Eaglesmere. There are undoubtedly connecting colonies of this 

 species along the Blue Mountains from Harrisburgto Massachusetts. 

 Links in this chain have been found at Greenwood Lake, New Jer- 

 sey, and on the Hudson Highlands, New York. It remains for future 

 investigators to trace their range over the intermediate region and 

 demonstrate the distribution of this large mammal throughout the 

 oldest and most populous mining region of North America, whose 

 very existence as a living species was unknown to naturalists as late 

 as the year 1893 ! 



21. Mus musculus L. House Mouse. 



The common name given this little pest is by no means specific of 

 its habitat. Mr. Ingersoll secured a series of 42 in Juniata, Hunt- 

 ingdon and Blair Counties, nearly all of which were taken in fields 

 distant from houses or outbuildings. They were especially numer- 

 ous in upland meadows, in the runways of Microtus and Blarina. 

 This experience is, however, exceptional, for in other parts of the 

 State I have only occasionally been troubled by them in such places. 



22. Mus decumanus Pallas. Norway Rat. 



This species is quite as much at home in the coal and iron mines 

 of the mountains as in the farmer's barns or the crowded wharves of 

 our great cities. It is sometimes found in the same caves with Neo- 

 toma magister. Which of the two is master I have had no means of 

 determining, but it seems probable that the native animal is able to 

 resist any encroachments on his vested rights. Otherwise it would 

 have long since disappeared from localities it yet inhabits. 



23. Mus rattus L. Black Rat. 



I was unable to secure any recent records of this once common 

 introduced species. 



24. Arctomys monax (L.). Eastern Marmot. 



Abundant in all situations. Specimens from the mountains of 

 the northern counties are intermediates, approaching the Hudson 

 Bay form, Arctomys monax melanopus (Kuhl.). 



25. Tamias striatus (L.). Carolinian Chipmunk. 



26. Tamias striatus lysteri (Rich.). Canadian Chipmunk. 



Chipmunks from Sullivan and Clinton Counties are intermediate 

 between the southern animal and the Canadian form, lysteri. Those 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



from the southern half of the State are typical striatus. The series 

 from Somerset and Blair Counties have darker rusty crowns and 

 rumps than those from Eaglesraere and Round Island. 



27. Sciurus ludovicianus vicinus Bangs. Eastern Fox Squirrel. 



I have been unable to lay hands on any Pennsylvania specimens 

 of this squirrel except those of the light gray phase presented many 

 years ago to the Academy of Natural Sciences by Drs. Heerman and 

 Woodhouse. The exact locality of their capture is not given. 



Mr. Bangs, in his review of the eastern Squirrel, 6 quotes Dr. B. 

 H. Warren in stating that this species "is practically extinct in 

 Pennsylvania, except in the counties of Dauphin and Cumberland." 

 The following notes will be of some value in estimating the status of 

 this animal in the Commonwealth. 



Clinton County :— " Not plenty. I killed 3 last fall [1894] "— 

 Nelson. 



Cameron County : — " Very rare ; have not seen any for years " — 

 Larrabee. 



Sullivan County : — " Rare ; never seen on tops of the mountains " 

 — Bennett. 



Cumberland County : — One reported seen near Pine Grove Fur- 

 nace in 1892. Nearly exterminated — Rhoads. 



Mr. Ingersoll was unable to get any reliable notes of this species 

 in his journey through the central Alleghenies. They are practically 

 extinct in that region. 



28. Sciurus carolinensis leucotis (Gapp.). Northern Gray Squirrel. 



This animal continues to abound wherever enough timber remains 

 to supply food and shelter, even in the more densely populated 

 localities. In the northern parts of the State, especially the north- 

 western counties, the proportion of black or melanistic individuals 

 of this species sometimes equals and often exceeds the normal gray 

 form. This is reported to be the case in Clinton County by 

 Mr. Nelson, where the " blacks " sometimes outnumber the " grays " 

 two or three to one. In Sullivan County Mr. Bennett finds the 

 " blacks" numerous, but the "grays" predominate. I have never 

 seen nor heard of a black squirrel in southeastern Pennsylvania. 



29. Sciurus hudsonicus (Erxl.). Canadian Red Squirrel. 



30. Sciurus hudsonicus loquax Bangs. Carolinian Red Squirrel. 



After consulting a series of nearly 60 Chickarees from Maine, 

 Ontario, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, I am somewhat puzzled to 



6 Proc. Biol. Soc, Washn., 1896, p. 150. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



formulate any rule by which typical hudsonicus and its subspecies 

 loquax may be distinguished. Strictly comparable specimens taken 

 at the same season in Maine aud southern New Jersey are in some 

 casQs very similar. The greater relative length of tail and hind foot, 

 however, in the southern animal is fairly diagnostic. The large 

 series taken by Mr. Ingersoll on the mountains of Somerset County 

 are but slightly different from Delaware and Chester County speci- 

 mens, not sufficiently so to warrant their subspecific separation as 

 expressed by the habitat assigned to each by Mr. Bangs. 7 



It is more reasonable to restrict the habitat of typical hudsonicus, 

 as in the case of some other Canadian species ranging into the south- 

 ern Alleghenies, to the northern parts of Pennsylvania. In this case 

 the loquax intermediates of the southern Alleghenies give place on 

 the balsam belts of the Great Smoky Mountains to a dusky, imper- 

 fectly differentiated form which differs almost as much from hudson- 

 icus as does loquax. Some winter skins from Clinton County differ 

 sufficiently in measurements and the character and coior of pelage 

 to be classed more properly with hudsonicus. 



31. Sciuropterus volans (L.). Carolinian Flying Squirrel. 



The smaller flying squirrel abounds in the entire region included 

 in this paper. No specimens have been received from the northern 

 counties. A specimen taken near Renovo, Clinton County, in the 

 collection of Mr. Pierce, is volans. The result of Mr. Bang's in- 

 quiries into the distribution of this animal indicates that the large 

 species, sabrinus, will not be found in the State. 



32. Putorius vison Schreb. Canadian Mink. 



33. Putorius vison lutreocephalus (Harlan). Carolinian Mink. 



From the statements of hunters, added to personal experience, the 

 mink may be said to be numerously and evenly distributed over the 

 entire upland and lowland regions of Pennsylvania. Taken as a 

 whole the Pennsylvania minks are more typical of the southern race, 

 but in the northern mountain streams are very near the Canadian 

 type. 



34. Putorius noveboracensis Emmons. Carolinian Weasel. 



Though rarely seen, this animal is a stranger to no part of the 

 State. In the south its change to the white winter dress seems quite 

 as irregular as the relative severity of the season and amount of 

 snowfall. The winter skins of this animal are often sent to th« fur- 



7 Proc. Biol. Soc, Washn., 1896, pp. 159, 161. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



riers by Pennsylvania trappers, and in but few instances have I noted 

 any in white pelage. 



It is not improbable that Putorius cicognani, the small northern 

 species, may be found in boreal Pennsylvania ; so far, however, I 

 have been unable to get any record of it. 



35. Lutra hudsonica Lacep. North American Otter. 



Recent records of this wary animal in many of the streams and 

 lakes of the region are so numerous that it is not necessary to enu- 

 merate them here. The otter has by no means been exterminated 

 in any county in central Pennsylvania, though it may rightly be said 

 to be now a rare species, wherever once abundant. 



36. Mustela americana Kerr. Canadian Marten. 



The following records show that this valuable fur bearing animal 

 has not been wholly exterminated in the Allegheny Mountains. 



1. Columbia County: — " Mountains north of Benton " — H. Cow- 

 ard. Skin in collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Xo. 

 1,563, 9 > captured, as above, in the fall of 1892. 



2. Sullivan County: — "One was trapped last winter (1895-'96) 

 near Eaglesmere " — Bennett. 



3. Clinton County: — " Once abundant in the beechwoods of this 

 and adjoining counties, now very rare; saw tracks of two in Clinton 

 County, winter, 1895'' — Nelson. 



4. Cameron County : — "Found in hard wood timber. Received 

 several light colored pelts from Shippen Township in 1894. Got 3 

 from same township in winter of 1895 " — Larrabee. 



5. Potter County: — "I received 22 pelts from a hunter who 

 trapped them on the east fork of the Sinnemahoning during the win- 

 ter of 1894-95 "—Larrabee. 



I had the privilege of examining several of the furs of Marten 

 above recorded by Mr. Larrabee. Mr. M. W. Strealy, of Chambers- 

 burg, took considerable pains to inquire of old hunters of the South 

 Mountain region concerning the presence of this animal. Among 

 these was an old furrier whose father had all his life been in the same 

 trade in that section. Another informant was a mountaineer 98 

 years' old. Mr. Strealy states that neither of these men had ever 

 heard of the marten or sable being taken in the South Mountain, or 

 the counties of that region. 



37. Mustela pennanti Erxl. Pekan or Fisher. 



The Fisher or Black Cat has for many years been practically 

 extinct in Pennsylvania. Such, at least, is the verdict of nearly 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



every hunter with whom I have communicated; and many men of 

 middle age, who have had twenty years' experience in mountaineer- 

 ing, never saw the track of one where they were formerly numerous, 

 while many other trappers had not even heard of such an animal. 



The elder Seth Nelson caught many of them in the beech woods of 

 Potter and Tioga Counties, between the years 1827 and 1845. 



Mr. Larrabee, of Emporium, Cameron County, declares there are 

 yet a few in Shippen Township. The tracks of one were seen, and 

 traps set to catch it, during the winter of 1895-96. 



A mounted specimen, taken in Pennsylvania, is in the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences. It has no more definite data, and was evidently 

 taken many years ago. 



On March 11, 1896, a fine male Pekan was shot by Christ. S. 

 Nunnemacher on the borders of a wood on Mill Creek, 2 miles north 

 of Bird-in-Hand,and about three miles east of Lancaster, Lancaster 

 County. Mill Creek rises in the Welsh Mountains. Tins animal 

 had been making depredations on the farmer's poultry in that vicin- 

 ity for some months, and was finally discovered by some dogs in 

 company with Nunnemacher. The animal was taken to Dr. M. W. 

 Raub, of Lancaster, to be mounted, and the stuffed specimen is now 

 in his possession. In a letter from Dr. Raub I have received full 

 confirmation of the above facts, and unmistakable evidence that the 

 animal was not a" Marten," as reported in the Lancaster newspapers 

 of that date. 



38. Mephitis mephitica (Shaw). Canadian Skunk. 



39. Mephitis mephitica elongata Bangs. Carolinian Skunk. 



Central Pennsylvania presents us with two forms of skunks, 

 neither of which are typical of the above species and subspecies as 

 defined by Mr. Bangs. 8 



In Clinton County Mr. Xelsou states that only about 1 in 20 are 

 black with a small white head spot. These are of double value as 

 fur. 



This animal is equally abundant at all elevations, in deciduous 

 forest growths. 



40. Procyon lotor (L.). Raccoon. 



Though not often seen, the Raccoon continues to exist in thickly 

 populated districts where forests continue to afford some shelter. 

 Although much sought after by trappers and hunters it holds its own 

 in all sparsely settled districts, both mountain and lowland. 



8 . Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Plist., 1895, pp. 1-7. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



41. TTrsus americanus Pallas. American Black Bear. 



Several bears are trapped every year in ceutral Pennsylvania, 

 and some of these generally reach the Philadelphia market during 

 the winter. It is a good rule that where one finds the Virginia 

 Deer there are pretty sure to be some bears, and where the former 

 are exterminated the bears are very scarce or never seen. 



There is probably not a county coming within the scope of this 

 paper, in which the black bear has been completely exterminated. 

 They are, perhaps, more numerous in the counties surrounding 

 Clinton County than elsewhere. Seth I. Nelson and his son concur in 

 the belief that bears have been more numerous in the past 15 years 

 than before that time, the clearing of the evergreen timber and in- 

 crease of brush land and deciduous forests being to their advantage- 

 About the year 1883 the junior Nelson killed 7 bears in East Keat- 

 ing Township, Clinton County, alone. In 1893 he killed 4. I ex- 

 amined the pelts of several recently taken by Mr. R. W. Bennett, 

 near Eaglesmere, where they also seem to be numerous. 



42. TJrocyon cinereoargenteus (Mull.). Northern Gray Fox. 



Though very rare in the mountains of the northern tier of counties, 

 this species may be said to visit every township in the state. It is 

 probable that this statement could not have been made 20 years ago, 

 but the destruction of the forests in this, as in other cases, has made 

 possible such an extension of the range of the gray fox into the once 

 undisputed habitat of the red fox. 



Regarding the dexterity of this species in climbing trees the junior 

 Nelson told me he had seen one ascend after a squirrel to the height 

 of 60 feet on an erect dead pine stripped of its bark. It did this 

 voluntarily, literally "shinning" 25 feet up the branchless trunk 

 and backing down again, as a boy would do it. He has known 

 his dogs to run them up an erect-tree 18 inches in diameter, the 

 first limb of which was 20 feet from the ground. 



43. Vulpes pennsylvanicus (Bodd.). Bed Fox. 



More abundant in the mountains, but found more or less numer- 

 ously in all localities beyond the limits of towns and cities. 



44. Canis nubilus Say. Northern American Wolf. 



The following notes seem to indicate that the wolf has never been 

 wholly exterminated in Pennsylvania, but that there yet exist some 

 of these wary rovers of the wilderness, to attest the theory that no 

 country where the Virginia deer remain is free from their incursions. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



It is well known that the wolf is frequently noted in the Allegheny 

 Mountains of West Virginia, and the nature of the country lying 

 between these and the wilds of western Pennsylvania so favors com- 

 munication between the two that it requires no stretch of fancy to 

 understand how these crafty wanderers yet defy extermination. 



Cameron and Potter Counties : — " Practically exterminated. One 

 hunter saw wolf tracks a year ago [1895] " — Larrabee. " One seen 

 in Potter County recently " — Nelson. This was previous to 1893. 

 " I was told by 3 men that they saw 2 wolves catch and kill a deer 

 in Wyckof Run [Gibson Township, Cameron Co.] alongside of the 

 lumber railroad" — Nelson. No date of this occurrence was given, 

 but it was furnished among some notes of recent records. " I heard 

 a man on Kettle Creek killed a wolf this fall [1896] in Potter 

 County, but I can't find out his name" — Nelson. 



Clearfield County : — " The last wolf was killed in Clearfield County 

 with a club by a man on horseback the winter of 1891-92. It was 

 killed by William Bonsall of the same county" — Nelson. 



Clinton County : — " I have been told by 2 hunters that they saw 2 

 wolves this winter [1893-'94] about 6 miles from my place [Round 

 Island], but I have been all through that woods, and see no signs of 

 anything but lynx, wild cats and foxes. I think it was lynx they 

 saw instead of wolves " — Nelson. 



Elk County : — "A wolf was killed in Elk County about 9 years 

 ago [1887 ?] by a deer hunter "— R. B. Simpson. 



Sullivan county: — " Long since exterminated" — Bennett. 



It may be stated in this connection that a wolf was killed at 

 Prompton, in Wayne County, in the winter of 1897 by Daniel 

 Routan. "It was run in from York state by a hound" — G. D. 

 Stevens. Mr. Nelson also informs me that he has heard of wolves 

 being seen recently in Erie County. 



45. Lynx ruffus (Gueld.). Eastern Bay Lynx. 



The wild cat is quite abundant in the denser forests of the State, 

 and often lingers close to long established centres of population in 

 the mountain country. 



46. Lynx canadensis Kerr. Canada Lynx. 



Although the majority of reports concerning the existence of this 

 animal in Pennsylvania relate to the bay lynx or wild cat there is no 

 doubt that the Canada lynx formerly visited the more boreal por- 

 tions of the north country. 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Mr. Larrabee, who recognized the specific distinction between the 

 two, told me that he knew certainly of the capture of one in Cam- 

 eron or Potter County within 16 years. 



I have received no information of authentic records of the recent 

 capture of this species in the State. 



47. Felis concolor L. Puma, Panther. 



Once found in all portions of the Commonwealth, the Panther now 

 is restricted to the most inaccessible mountain districts. The numer- 

 ous wild cat and " catamount " stories which find their way into the 

 newspapers, describing the capture of so-called Panthers in the Alle- 

 gheny Mountains, have justly made the more conservative class 

 skeptical of their existence in the State. Careful inquiry, however, 

 shows that not only are there well authenticated instances of their 

 capture within the last ten years, but that a few may remain in the 

 wilderness of Clearfield and its surrounding counties, as well as in 

 the northeastern section of the State. 



Sullivan County: — "My father killed the last one in this region 

 certainly known to me, between the years 1855 and 1860" — Bennett. 



Clinton and Clearfield Counties : — " There may be one or two yet 

 in Clearfield County ; but the Askey boys and I killed 2, two years 

 ago [1891] " — Nelson. In a later letter Mr. Nelson writes : " Those 

 panthers skins, with two others, went to Germany with a lot of other 

 furs, by Schrader & Co. I did not kill the panther, it got in my 

 bear-trap, and was dead when I came to the trap." Not being able 

 to hear more particularly from Mr. Nelson at this writing, I interpret 

 him to mean that the " Askey boys " killed their panther in Clear- 

 field County on a hunting trip with Nelson. This is in line with a 

 statement he made to me in conversation one year ago. The panther 

 caught in bear-trap by Nelson was probably caught on his regular 

 trapping grounds in Clinton County. 9 



Potter and Cameron Counties :—" None known to have been 

 killed in 20 years. Accounts of such killing unreliable" — Larrabee. 



48. Scalops aquaticus (L.). Carolinian Mole. 



Judging by the scarcity of signs, I should think the common mole 

 less common, even in the lowlands of central Pennsylvania, than in 

 the Delaware valley drainage. 



9 Mr. Nelson has since written that no panthers have been taken since the 

 "Long boys killed one about 4 years ago on the big run of Beech Creek." 

 [Centre Co. ?]. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



49. Parascalops breweri (Bachm.). Brewer's Mole. 



A specimen of the hairy-tailed mole is recorded from Hollidays- 

 burg, Blair County, by Mr. F. W. True, in his " Revision of the 

 American Moles." It is in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, 

 Cambridge, Mass. 



I have never seen a Pennsylvania specimen, nor know of other 

 records from the State. 



50. Condylura cristata (L.). Star-nose Mole. 



Though no specimens of this mole have been noted by me in 

 central Pennsylvania there is little doubt of its comparative abund- 

 ance over the entire area. Prof. Baird records a specimen from 

 Carlisle. 



51. Blarina brevicauda (Say). Northern Mole Shrew. 



In the Allegheny Mountains this species is quite typical of the 

 northern form. It is everywhere very abundant. 



52. Blarina cinerea Say. Least Mole Shrew. 



I include this species here on the authority of Prof. Baird, who 

 records one from Carlisle. The only Pennsylvania specimen known 

 to me is in my private collection. It was taken by my friend, Witmer 

 Stone, near Thorndale, Chester County. This southern species is 

 not likely to occur north of the foothills of the Blue Ridge. 



53. Sorex personatus Is. Geoff. St. Hil. Masked Shrew. 



This tiny mammal is sometimes taken by the professional mouser 

 in both the deeper forests and the open grounds near woodland. It 

 appears more numerous in the northern and mountain districts than 

 in the southern lowlands. In the former places it associates with 

 the next species, but is there the rarer of the two. 



54. Sorex fumeus Miller. Smoky Shrew. 



This larger of the long-tailed shrews is abundant in the mountain 

 forests, to which it seems closely confined. It is characteristic of the 

 Alleghenian as contrasted with the Carolinian fauna, whereas the 

 masked shrew inhabits both. 



I have specimens from Sullivan, Clinton, Cambria and Somerset 

 Counties. 



The rare Marsh Shrew, Sorex albibarbis, of which I took a speci- 

 men in Monroe County in 1894, will undoubtedly be found to be a 

 denizen of the hemlock swamps of the central Alleghenies. So far, 

 however, it has escaped notice in these localities. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



55. Adelonycteris fusca (Pal.de Beauv.). Large Brown Bat. 



Everywhere abundant, except on the heavier wooded mountain 

 summits. 



56. Vesperugo carolinensis (Is. Geoff. St. Hil.). Carolina Bat. 



Rare in central Pennsylvania. Probably confined to the regions 

 southeast of the Blue Ridge. Prof. Baird secured a specimen, now 

 in the Smithsonian Institution, from Carlisle. 



57. Lasionyoteris noctivagans (LeC). Silvery Bat. 

 Numerously distributed over the entire region. 



58. Nycticejus humeralis 0. Thos. Twilight Bat. 



The only record of this southern species known to me is a speci- 

 men taken at Carlisle by Prof. Baird. 



59. Atalapha borealis (Mull.). Red Bat. 

 An abundant species. 



60. Atalapha cinerea (Pal. de Beauv.). Hoary Bat. 



This large bat is little known to the mountaineers, so far as my 

 inquiries have gone. I have never seen a specimen in life. One taken 

 near Renovo, Clinton County, is in the collection of A. K. Pierce, of 

 that borough. From its known range in the United States and Canada 

 it is more likely to be found in middle than in eastern Pennsylvania, 

 from which latter region I have seen and heard of several examples. 



61. Homo sapiens americanus. Aboriginal American Indian. 



Central Pennsylvania at the time of Penn's coming (1682) was 

 inhabited by tribes of Iroquoian linguistic stock, as distinguished 

 from the Algonquin Lenape of east Pennsylvania. The Susquehan- 

 nocks (Minquas, Conestogas or Andastes) holding originally the 

 main Susquehanna River valley, conquered by the Senecas about 

 1670, and finally reduced to a remnant, were exterminated near 

 Lancaster by the" Paxton boys," December 27, 1763. Subsequently 

 the Six Nation Onondagas, Cayugas, Oneidas, Senecas, Mohawks 

 and Tuscaroras roamed over the former possession of the Susque- 

 hannocks, and sold it to the whites, thus relinquishing Adams, 

 Franklin, Cumberland and York Counties in 1763, Perry, Juniata, 

 Snyder, Huntingdon, Blair, Bedford and Fulton in 1758, Northum- 

 berland, Union, Montour, Lycoming, Clinton, Centre, Clearfield, 

 Cambria and Somerset in 1768, and Bradford, Tioga, Potter, Mc- 

 Kean and Elk in 1784. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



Of Algonquin stock there were wandering Shawnee invasions of 

 the mountain regions west of the Susquehanna in Pre-Columbian 

 times. The Assiwikales of the sea-board in 1731 settled along the 

 Susquehanna and in the watershed of the Monongahela. The Al- 

 gonkian Nantichokes of Maryland also migrated up the Susquehanna 

 during the middle of the 18th century, settling with the Iroquois at 

 Juniata and Shamokin, and they probably built the mounds cover- 

 ing heaps of human bones near Sunbury, identified by Mr. H. C. 

 Mercer. By the year 1800 they had left Pennsylvania and dwin- 

 dled to five families living among the Iroquois of western New 

 York. 



Of the existing Indians which represent the ancient occupants or 

 claimants of central Pennsylvania there were 98 Senecas and Onon- 

 dagas living in 1890 on the Cornplanter Reservation in Warren 

 County. There were also 255 Senecas in Indian Territory, 5,133 

 Iroquois in the seven reservations (Onondaga, Tonawanda, Cattar- 

 augas, Allegheny, Oil Springs, Tuscarora and St. Regis) in New 

 York, in 1890. Beside these may be mentioned 1,200 Shawnees 

 living in (?) 1867, and about 2,500 Cherokees in 1890, all living in 

 Indian Territory. 



A few of the more noted Indian villages noted by scouts, mission- 

 aries and settlers in central Pennsylvania include the following: — 



Indian name. Modern name. 



Chinklaca-moose Clearfield, Clearfield Co. 

 Kishaca-quillas Mifflin Co. 



Chillis quaque (Shawnee) Northumberland Co. 



Shamokin Shamokin, Northumberland Co. 

 Conosoragy (Shawnee, 1755) Near Muncy Creek, Lycoming Co. 



Otston-nakin Montoursviile, Lycoming Co. 



Quenis-chas-chackki Linden, Lycoming Co. 



Wyoming Wyoming, Luzerne Co. 



Wyalusing Wyalusing, Bradford Co. 

 Sesquehanock (Carantonans) Spanish Hill, Bradford Co. 



Oscolni On Sugar Creek, Bradford Co. 



Gohontoto On Wyalusing Creek, Bradford Co. 



Chingilo-molonk Lock Haven, Clinton Co. 



In an exploration of the Susquehanna Valley from Pittston to 

 Harrisburg in 1892 Mr. Mercer writes me he "found ample evi- 

 dence of former Indian villages along the main river at the mouths 

 of all important streams, and similar proofs establish villages at the 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



mouth of Canadaguinnet Creek, Yellow Breeches Creek, on the Sus- 

 quehanna, both left and right banks, near Bainbridge, Lancaster 

 Co., at Caldwells Island, Great Island, and North Branch above 

 Shamokin, along Conewago and Tuscarora Creeks, near Academia, 

 on the Juniata and at the mouth of the Tuscarora. Probably the 

 Shamokin site was the most important on the river in prehistoric 

 times, the sites at Montoursville and mouth of Juniata ranking next." 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



A NEW SOUTHEASTERN RACE OF THE LITTLE BROWN BAT. 

 BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



In my "Contributions to the Mammalogy of Florida " l occurs the 

 first, and, so far as I am aware, the only record of Vespertilio luci- 

 fugus (=" V. gryphus "?) from the extreme southeastern section of 

 the United States. The series in question included six specimens 

 in alcohol and two carefully prepared dry skins, with skulls and 

 field measurements taken by the collector, Mr. W. S. Dickinson, 

 from the animals before skinning. Their identification was made 

 by Dr. Harrison Allen from the alcoholic specimens only. 



Recently, in overhauling and labelling my collection, I made a 

 more careful examination of this series. In consequence I find it 

 necessary to separate the Florida form as a very distinct subspecies 

 under the following name and diagnosis : 



Vespertilio lucifugus austroriparius, Subsp. nov. Southeastern Little Brown Bat. 



Type, No. 878, ad. 9 , Collection of S. N. Rhoads. Collected by 

 W. 8. Dickinson, June 23, 1892, at Tarpon Springs, Florida. 



Description of type. — Smaller than lucifugus of N. Carolina and 

 northward. Fur very short, fine and dense, about half as long as 

 in New York specimens taken in the same season. Color above 

 uniform, dull, dark brown, inclining to smoke-brown or dark choc- 

 olate as contrasted with the normal glossy, tawny and umber browns 

 of northern specimens. Below brownish-cinereous, becoming lighter 

 posteriorly and edged by a conspicuous margin of tawny white at 

 the junction of wing membranes with lower half of body. Upper 

 body fur slightly darker basally for \ to # its length, the difference 

 in shade between the brown-black of basal portion and the smoky- 

 brown of terminal third of hairs only to be distinguished by close 

 scrutiny. In lucifugus the contrast between these parts is conspicu- 

 ous. On the lower parts this contrast is equally marked in both 

 forms. 



In the characters of the skull, save in the diminished size of aus- 

 troriparius, I can detect no marked differences. The latter, how- 



^roc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1894, p. 157. 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



ever, has a relatively shorter and wider skull with more abruptly 

 depressed facial plane in the three specimens used in this compari- 

 son. 



Measurements of type. — Total length, 83 millimeters ; tail verte- 

 bra?, 32 ; hind foot, 7.5. Skull : total length, 14 ; zygomatic 

 breadth, 8 ; length of mandible, 10.5. 



Specimens in the series date from the last of June to the middle 

 of September, some having been taken in Aumist, showing that this 

 is a resident Floridian form and in no sense a winter migrant from 

 northern latitudes. Neither is it to be confounded with V. albes- 

 cens of Is. Geoff. St. Hilaire, differing therefrom in respect to the 

 shape of tragus and coloration of the lower jaw, precisely as does 

 typical lucifugus. 



Of the names already given to a possible southeastern form of 

 lucifugus, I fiiid none which can be referred to as possibly applica- 

 ble to austroriparius except V. subflavus of F. Cuvier, 2 from Georgia. 

 In Cuvier's description subflavus is said to have the tragus half 

 heart-shaped, and the body colors are so light both above and be- 

 low as to suggest a light colored Vesperugo carolinensis. Cuvier's 

 subflavus is virtually unidentifiable, though Dr. Allen thinks it per- 

 haps referable to " gryphus." 



2 Xouv. Ann. du Mus. Hist. Nat., 1832, p. 15. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL, 



NO. 2.-P0MPILIDJE. 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



In this, the second paper based on the collections of Mr. Herbert 

 H. Smith made in Brazil, many species are described, presumably 

 for the first time. Much difficulty has been encountered in de- 

 termining the Pompilida? in question because the writer has 

 been obliged to rely entirely on descriptions, which in many in- 

 stances are faulty and meager. The difficulty has been height- 

 ened by the diversity of classification of the older writers on the 

 subject. 



Ceropales abdominalis Tasch. 



Corumba (April, May). Three female and one male specimen. 

 Ceropales sp. 



A male from Corumba (April) is close to abdominalis, but the 

 antenna? are fulvous beneath, the apex of dorsal segments 2-6 and 

 seventh entirety are yellow, and punctuation of head and thorax is 

 coarser. 



Notocyphus saevissimus Sm. 



Corumba (April, May) ; Santarem (September). 

 Notocyphus tyrannicus Sm. 



Chapada (March). Six specimens, varying from 19-28 mm. The 

 larger specimens lack the purplish and bluish pile mentioned by 

 Smith. 



Notocyphus brevicornis n. sp. 



9 . — Black, subopaque ; palpi testaceous ; head indistinctly punct- 

 ured ; space between eyes at top about equal to length of the second, 

 third and half of the fourth an tennal joints ; hind ocelli separated by 

 a distance at least equal to that between them and nearest eye-mar- 

 gin ; the front is broader than in tyrannicus ; clypeus broadly truncate, 

 not twice as broad as long ; labrum nearly as long as the clypeus is 

 broad, narrowed anteriorly and emarginate ; eyes well separated 

 from base of mandibles ; antenna? stout, short, not longer than head 



and thorax united, the first joint of flagellum longer than the second ; 

 16 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



pronotum rounded antero-laterally, posteriorly arcuate, in the middle 

 about as long as the scutellurn ; seen from the side, the dorsulum is 

 much natter than in tyrannicus and the middle segment is shorter, 

 the posterior surface not being emarginate but depressed or sub- 

 concave, the postero-lateral angles hardly prominent ; the upper sur- 

 face with a faint central, longitudinal furrow ; legs feebly spinose, 

 the inner spur of hind tibia? just about half as long as the first 

 hind tarsal joint; wings comparatively shorter than in tyrannicus, 

 blackish with a reddish-purple iridescence, second submarginal 

 rhomboidal ; abdomen compressed apically. Length 15-17 mm. 



Chapada (March, October). Two specimens. Has a superficial 

 resemblence to species of the genus Notogonia. 



Notocyphus abnormis Tasch. (=Ceropales dbnormia Tasch.). 



Six specimens, Chapada (March, September, November). They 

 vary from 13-17 mm. in length. 



Notocyphus terminatus n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; palpi testaceous ; seven last antennal joints orange ; 

 eyes not reaching mandibles; clypeus broadly truncate; labrum 

 narrowed apically, truncate, in length scarcely equal to width of 

 clypeus; space between eyes above about equal to length of second 

 and third antennal joints ; antennae stout, somewhat longer than 

 head and thorax ; pronotum posteriorly arcuate, having a tendency 

 to become angular ; middle segment long, strongly emarginate and 

 concave posteriorly, the postero-lateral angles produced and strongly 

 marked, on the sides a furrow orginatesat the stigma and terminates 

 in a broad pit at the hind coxse ; legs feebly spinose, the longer spur 

 of hind tibia? more than half as long as first hind tarsal joint ; wings 

 fuscous, faintly purple, pale at apex of anteriors, the extreme base 

 and a small spot at base of first discoidal cell, obscurely yellowish ; 

 cubital vein of hind wing originating distinctly before apex of sub- 

 median cell ; abdomen shorter than the thorax, scarcely compressed. 

 Length 18 mm. 



Chapada (March). One specimen. 



Notocyphus pictipennis n. sp. 



9. — Structurally, this species agrees exactly with terminatus; 

 also in the coloration of antennae. The wings, however, have the 

 basal two-thirds, bright yellow, the remaining third dark fuscous, 

 with the tips of anteriors pale. Length 18 mm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. Will probably prove to be a 

 variety of terminatus. 




1§97.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



Notocyphus dubius n. sp. 



9 • — Black ; spot on each side of dorsal abdominal segments 1-5 

 varying in size and sometimes uniting on 2 and 3, sixth seg- 

 ment entirely, pale reddish ; inner and posterior orbits narrowly and 

 obscurely, clypeus at base and laterally and hind margin of prono- 

 tum yellowish ; head and thorax with a silvery sericeous pile, more 

 observable in certain lights ; front strongly furrowed, convex on 

 each side ; eyes not reaching base of mandibles, space between them 

 at top about equal to length of first joint of flagellum ; hind ocelli 

 separated by a somewhat greater distance than from the inner eye 

 margin ; clypeus broadly truncate, more than three times broader 

 than long ; labrum truncate, not as long as the clypeus is wide ; 

 antenna? longer than head and thorax united ; pronotum strongly 

 arcuate posteriorly; middle segment long, emarginate posteriorly, 

 the postero-lateral angles produced, upper surface with a longitu- 

 dinal, central impressed ljne, from each stigma a deep furrow runs 

 to hind coxae ; legs feebly spinose, the longer spur of hind tibiae a 

 little more than half as long as the first hind tarsal joint; wings 

 yellowish, apical margins fuscous, cubital vein of hind wings intersti- 

 tial with apex of submedian cell ; abdomen about as long as the 

 thorax, compressed apically, with a faint bluish pile. Length 21- 

 22 mm. 



Santarem (February). Two specimens. Seems to be near maculi- 

 frons Smith and macrostoma Kohl. From the former it differs in 

 coloration of wings, antennae and abdomen. It is, perhaps, closer to 

 macrostoma, but is larger, and, judging from Kohl's figure, the 

 middle segment is differently shaped. 



Notocyphus similis n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; wings yellow, apical margins slightly fuscous ; 

 clypeus short, broadly truncate, more than three times broader than 

 long ; labrum nearly as broad as long, shorter than width of clypeus, 

 broadly emarginate at apex ; front with impressed line ; eyes but 

 little separated from mandibles, space between them at top about 

 equal to length of first joint of flagellum ; hind ocelli separated by 

 a greater distance than they are from nearest eye-margin ; antennae 

 longer than head and thorax ; pronotum arcuate posteriorly ; middle 

 segment roundly emarginate posteriorly, but not strongly, the pos- 

 tero-lateral angles scarcely prominent, when viewed from within ; 

 posterior face with a fine transverse striation, the stigmal furrow 

 shallow above ; tibiae not at all spinose, the longer spur of hind pair 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



a little more than half as long as the first bind tarsal joint ; cubital 

 vein of hind wings interstitial with apex of submedian cell ; abdomen 

 as long as thorax, compressed apically, with a faint, bluish tinge. 

 Length 18 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. Allied apparently, to melanosoma 

 Kohl, but differs in the longer pronotum which, in the middle, is 

 fully half as long as the longest part of dorsulum. The front is 

 longer and narrower than in melanosoma. 



Notocyphus ferrugineus u. sp. 



9 . — Ferruginous; sutures of thorax, and apex of dorsal abdom- 

 inal segments obscurely, black ; clypeus subtruncate, or slightly 

 rounded-out ; labrum about as long as it is broad at base, subtrun- 

 cate at apex ; front with impressed line, which becomes obsolete, 

 however, toward base of antennae; the latter broken off and missing 

 beyond the first three joints ; eyes but little separated from the 

 mandibles, the space between them at the top about equal to the 

 length of first joint of flagellum ; hind ocelli separated by a much 

 greater distance than from the nearest eye-margin ; pronotum arcu- 

 ate posteriorly ; middle segment not emarginate, posterior surface 

 depressed, or concave, postero-lateral angles not at all produced, 

 upper surface shorter than the dorsulum, parted by a longitudinal, 

 central, impressed line ; legs feebly spinose, the longer spur of hind 

 tibise at the most half as long as the first hind tarsal joint; wings 

 fulvo-hyaline, the costal half of the superiors fuscous, the apical mar- 

 gins palest, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell in the middle, cubital vein of hind wings originating far before 

 the apex of the submedian cell ; abdomen as long as the thorax, 

 scarcely compressed. Length 17 mm. 



Chapada (March). * One specimen. 



Notocyphus nubilipennis n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; abdomen reddish, the base of the first, second, and 

 greater part of third dorsals, and most of ventral surface, blackish ; 

 head and thorax with a silvery-sericeous pile, especially on the 

 clypeus and coxse ; head as wide as thorax; clypeus subtruncate; 

 labrum distinctly longer than broad at base, subtruncate and finely 

 punctured ; eyes distinctly separated from the mandibles, a little 

 converging above, the space between them at the top equal to the 

 length of first joint of flagellum, this latter is somewhat shorter than 

 the second joint; antennas slender, distinctly longer than head and 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



thorax; pronotum rather shorter, evenly rounded antero-laterally, 

 posteriorly subangulate ; middle segment entire, the upper and pos- 

 terior surfaces scarcely separated, postero-lateral angles rounded, 

 the posterior portion slightly depressed, indistinctly striated trans- 

 versely, stigmal furrow represented by a pit over the hind coxae ; 

 legs feebly spinose, longer spur of hind tibiae about two-thirds as 

 long as first hind tarsal joint ; wings subhyaline, darker apically, 

 including most of marginal, apex of second submarginal and third 

 entirely, first recurrent vein received by second submarginal before 

 middle, cubital vein of hind wings interstitial with apex of sub- 

 median cell ; abdomen as long as head and thorax, scarcely com- 

 pressed. Length 14-15 mm. 

 Santarem. Two specimens. 



Notocyphus obscuripennis n.sp. 



9 . — Black ; palpi yellowish ; second dorsal abdominal segment 

 with a transverse reddish-yellow fascia, which is almost interrupted 

 medially; head -and thorax with grayish-sericeous pile, densest on 

 clypeus; clypeus somewhat more than twice broader than long, its 

 fore margin very slightly incurved ; labrum a little longer than 

 broad at base, emarginate, with the clypeus finely though distinctly 

 punctured ; front finely punctured, impressed line faint : eyes well 

 separated from base of mandibles, separated at the top by a distance 

 greater than the length of the first joint of flagellum ; distance be- 

 tween hind ocelli greater than that between them and nearest eye- 

 margin ; antennas (last seven joints missing) ; pronotum subangular 

 posteriorly ; middle segment entire, posterior portion depressed 

 slightly, postero-lateral angles rounded, not prominent, stigmal fur- 

 row shallow ; legs feebly spinose, the longer spur of hind tibiae nearly 

 two-thirds as long as the first hind tarsal joint ; wings fuscous, with a 

 reddish-purple iridescence, recurrent vein received by second sub- 

 marginal cell before the middle, cubital vein of hind wings intersti- 

 tial with apex of submedian cell ; abdomen barely as long as head and 

 thorax, but little compressed. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (January). One specimen. The red band of abdomen 

 gives the insect a superficial resemblance to Pompilus margin- 

 atus Say. 



Notocyphus crassicornis Smith. 



$ . — Black ; including basal half of mandibles ; clypeus, labrum, 

 face, inner and posterior orbits broadly, scape and pedicellum be- 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



neath, prothorax on sides and above, except a lateral spot, broad cen- 

 tral and narrow lateral stripes on dorsulnm, greater portion of meso- 

 pleura?, scutellum and postscutellum, middle segment except sides at 

 base, large spot on coxa?, small one of fore trochanters, apex of fore 

 femora and their tibia? and tarsi entirely, first dorsal segment except 

 apex, second at base, two transverse basal spots on third, spot on 

 sixth and seventh and a spot on each side of second and third ven- 

 trals, bright yellow ; joints 1-5, or 6 of flagellum fulvous beneath ; 

 apex of mandibles testaceous ; clypeus about twice as broad as long ; 

 labrum about as long as clypeus is broad, incurved at apex ; antenna? 

 thick, about as long as head and thorax f eyes almost reaching base 

 of mandibles; front distinctly impressed; middle segment entire, 

 rounded behind ; legs feebly spinose, the longer spur of hind tibia? 

 somewhat more than half as long as first hind tarsal joint; wings 

 pale yellow, fuscous from apex of second submarginal cell, sub- 

 hyaline at apex, recurrent vein received by second submarginal cell 

 slightly beyond middle, cubital vein of hind wings originating far 

 before apex of submedian cell ; abdomen shorter than thorax, scarcely 

 compressed. Length 12-13 mm. 



Chapada (March). Two specimens. This is the Ceropales cras- 

 sicornis Smith (Ann. Mag. N. H. (8) xii, 1873). 



The following table will aid in separating the Brazilian species of 

 Notocyphus contained in the present collection. 1 



Entirely ferruginous ; abdomen obscurely fuscous at apex of 



segments; (wings yellowish, the anterior portion of superiors, 



particularly in submed. cell, fuscous), . . 9 ferrugineus n. sp. 



Otherwise colored, 2. 



2. Thorax and abdomen entirely black, 3. 



Thorax or abdomen, or both, maculated with white, red or 



yellowish, 9. 



3. Wings dark, 4. 



Wings more or less yellowish, 7. 



4. Inner orbits and each side of clypeus, yellowish-white (body with 



strong pale sericeous pile), $ abnormis Tasch. 



Head in front not maculated, 5. 



5. Antenna? with last seven or eight joints orange (wings faintly 



purplish ; inner spur of hind tibia? more than half the length 

 of first hind tarsal joint), 9 terminatus n. sp. 



1 The genus Notocyphus has just been monographed by R. Lucas. See 

 Entomologische Nachrichten, XXIII (1897), H. 5 and 6. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Antennae entirely black, 6. 



6. Antennas distinctly longer than head and thorax united, . . . 



9 tyrannicus Sin. 



Antennas at the most about equal to the combined length of 

 head and thorax, 9 brevicomis n. sp. 



7. Apical margin only of wings dark, 8. 



Almost the outer half of wings blackish, their extreme tips pale 



(last seven joints of antennae orange) . . 9 pictipennis n. sp. 



8. Pronotum unusually short ; antenna? thick, 



9 vielanosoma Kohl. 



Pronotum not unusually short, its length in the middle nearly 

 equalling one-half the anterior width ; antennas slender, dis- 

 tinctly longer than head and thorax, . . . .9 similis n. sp. 



9. Middle segment emarginate posteriorly (maculation of abdomen 



reddish or reddish-yellow), 10. 



Middle segment rounded or truncate posteriorly, 12. 



10. Head and pronotum not maculated, 11. 



Inner and posterior orbits, sides of clypeusand line on pronotum 



yellowish, 9 macrostoma Kohl, 9 dubius n. sp. 



11. Abdomen maculated with red, 9 saevissimus Sm. 



Abdomen maculated with white, 9 rixosus Sm. 



12. Head immaculate, 13. 



Head maculated, 14. 



13. Wings subhyaline, a fuscous cloud including marginal except 



base, second submarginal and beyond ; greater part of dorsal 



surface of abdomen reddish, 9 nubilipennis n. sp. 



Wings fuscous, with purplish iridescence; second dorsal segment 

 with a transverse reddish band, .... obscuripennis n. sp. 



14. Head, thorax and abdomen richly maculated with yellow ; wings 



yellow, apical third fuscous ; basal antennal joints orange, 



$ crassicornis Sm. 



Head and thorax black, the inner orbits, clypeus at sides and 



spot above insertion of antennas, yellow ; wings fusco-hyaline, 



with apex of anteriors dark fuscous, apical antennal joints 



fulvous beneath ; abdomen maculated with ferruginous, 



9 maeulifrons Sm. 



Pseudagenia amabilis Tasch. 

 Agenia amabilis Taschenberg, Zeits. f. d. ges. Naturw., XXXIV, 45. 



One specimen from Rio de Janeiro (November). 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Pseudagenia femorata Sin. {=Agenia femorata Sm. non Fabr.). 



Santarem. Six specimens without date of capture. 

 Pseudagenia comparata Sm. 



Santarem (February and November). Ten specimens. 

 Agenia viridis Sm. 1 



One specimen. Santarem. 

 Agenia annulata Sm. 



Chapada (September). One specimen. 

 Agenia tarsata Sm. 



A specimen collected in April (no locality) is perhaps this species. 

 Agenia polistiformis Sm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 

 Agenia pallida Tasch. 



Chapada (November). The one specimen before me agrees fairly 

 well with Taschenberg's description, except that it is not unusually 

 pale, a character on which Taschenberg lays stress. 



Agenia femorata Fabr. 



Pompilus femoratus Fabricius, Syst. Piez., 190. 



Mararu (April) ; Santarem. Five specimens. 

 Agenia micans Fabr. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. Judging from the description, 

 Anoplius Richardi Lep. is identical with this species. 



Agenia chlorosoma Sm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 



Agenia curvinervis Cam. 



Same locality as chlorosoma. The only specimen in the collection 

 agrees with Cameron's description. 



Agenia producta n. sp. 



$ . — Head and thorax coppery-green ; abdomen, coxse, trochan- 

 ters and femora at base, black ; hind tibiae apically and tarsi more 

 or less fuscous ; antennas beneath, tegulee and legs except the parts 

 described above, reddish ; inner orbits narrowly yellow ; clypeus with 

 large punctures anteriorly, its fore margin angularly produced in 

 the middle ; pronotum gently arcuate posteriorly ; middle segment 



1 A I have pointed out elsewhere, the males of Agenia and Pseudagenia offer 

 no generic differences. Therefore, the new species described herein of which 

 only the male sex is known, are all referred to Agenia, notwithstanding the 

 probability of some belonging to Pseudagenia. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



punctato-rugose, feebly impressed down the middle; wings with a 

 slight yellowish tinge, nervures testaceous, second and third sub- 

 marginals at the top of about equal length, second recurrent vein 

 slightly bowed ; apical margins of abdominal segments narrowly 

 and obscurely testaceous ; pubescence of body golden and not dense. 

 Length 9 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (July). One specimen. Allied to Cressoni and 

 curvinervis Cam., and auripilis Cress. It lacks the rough front of 

 the latter species. 



Agenia rugosa n. sp. 



9 • — Head and thorax, including coxae and trochanters and base 

 of femora blue; abdomen black, apical margins of the segments, 

 narrowly testaceous ; medial and hind tibiae and tarsi fuscous, the 

 femora except base and the fore tibiae reddish ; antennae beneath and 

 tegulae testaceous ; body pubescence cinereous ; clypeus longest medi- 

 ally, but not angularly produced, convex ; front microscopically 

 jmnctured ; pronotum slightly angulate posteriorly ; middle segment 

 rugoso-punctate, strongly impressed down the middle ; wings clear, 

 nervures black, third submarginal at the top longer than the corre- 

 sponding portion of the second, second recurrent vein slightly sinu- 

 ous. Length 9 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One specimen. 



Agenia chapadaen. sp. 



9 . — Dark metallic-blue, abdomen darkest ; antennae, coxae, troch- 

 anters, base of fore femora, apex of fore tarsi, the four hind tarsi 

 and apex of hind tibiae black ; otherwise the legs are' reddish ; ante- 

 rior margin of clypeus in the middle formed into a tooth ; pronotum 

 angulate posteriorly, swollen and prominent at sides ; middle segment 

 with a very faint trace of transverse striae, scarcely impressed down 

 the middle ; calcaria testaceous ; abdomen compressed apically ; 

 wings fuscous, paler at apex, with a purplish reflection, third sub- 

 marginal at the top a little louger than the corresponding part of 

 the second, second recurrent vein gently bowed ; face and clypeus 

 with dense cinereous pile. Length 8 mm. 



Chapada (May). 



Agenia costalis n. sp. 



9 . — Metallic-green, with a tendency to blue on middle segment ; 

 antennae paler beneath, tegulae, apex of femora, tibiae and tarsi, ob- 

 scure testaceous, the fore tarsi basally, and the apical joints of max- 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



illary palpi pale ; body pubescence cinereous, especially dense on 

 face and clypeus ; anterior margin of the latter rounded, pronotum 

 subangulate posteriorly ; middle segment finely granulated, slightly 

 impressed down the middle ; wings with costal margin broadly fus- 

 cous, otherwise subhyaline, nervures testaceous, second submarginal 

 narrower than usual, its length at top fully one-third less than the 

 corresponding part of the third submarginal ; first abdominal seg- 

 ment rather long, distinctly longer than the second, petiolate. 

 Length 8 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. The green color also extends on the 

 coxa?, trochanters and part of femora. 



Agenia albimacula n. sp. 



9 . — Black, shining, rather densely covered with cinereous pile, 

 especially on middle segment and abdomen ; spot in middle of inner 

 orbits, at base of antenna?, at apex of scape above anterior margin 

 of clypeus, and joints 4-8 of flagellum above whitish ; a line com- 

 pletely enclosing the pronotum, teguke, spot on dorsulum posteriorly, 

 spot on scutellum, legs, and apex of dorsal abdominal segments 2-4 

 obscurely in the middle, fulvous ; tarsal joints ringed with dark at 

 apex ; clypeus broadly subtruncate, a smooth shining depression be- 

 fore anterior ocellus ; first and second joints of flagellum about equal 

 in length; pronotum angular posteriorly; middle segment appar- 

 ently smooth, scarcely impressed ; wings subhyaline, fuscous at apex, 

 and a fuscous cloud fills the second submarginal and apex of third 

 discoidal cells, third submarginal at top fully one-third greater than 

 the second at the corresponding part ; legs spinose, but not strongly. 

 Length H mm. 



Santarem (February). One specimen. Were it not for the 

 bearded maxilla?, 1 should have referred this species to Sulius in 

 consequence of the spinose legs. The basal vein, also, is not inter- 

 stitial. 



Agenia trifasciata n. sp. 



$ . — Black, head and thorax opaque ; scape, pedicellum, anterior 

 femora at apex and their tibia? and tarsi reddish-testaceous, remain- 

 der of legs except coxa? obscurely testaceous ; anterior margin of 

 clypeus and sides of face narrowly yellowish, clypeus rounded an- 

 teriorly ; a depression' bordering each hind ocelli outwardly ; pro- 

 notum subangulate posteriorly, evenly rounded in front ; middle- 

 segment apparently smooth, not impressed ; legs slightly spinose ; 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



wings subhyaline, the anteriors crossed by three fuscous fasciae; the 

 first crosses at the basal vein, the second fills base of marginal, sec- 

 ond submarginal, base of third and apex of third discoidal, the third 

 fascia at the apex, third submarginal at top about one-quarter 

 greater than the corresponding portion of second, nervures testa- 

 ceous, stigma black ; abdomen shining, clavate, compressed, the first 

 segment about as long as the two following united ; body pubescence 

 cinereous and sparse. Length 7 mm. 

 Chapada (October). 



Agenia fragilis n. sp. 



$ . — Black, with cinereous pubescence; clypeus at sides and an- 

 teriorly, sides of face, mandibles except base and the palpi, whitish ; 

 scape beneath, tegulae, four anterior trochanters, the femora, anterior 

 tibiae and tarsi, medial tibiae in part, first abdominal segment on 

 sides and beneath, and second at base, reddish ; calcaria and last 

 dorsal segment white ; pronotum angulate posteriorly ; middle seg- 

 ment apparently smooth above, at base in the middle with a shining 

 fovea from which a short impressed line emanates ; legs slightly 

 spinose ; wings subhyaline, bifasciate with fuscous, the first fascia 

 includes the base of marginal, second submarginal and apex of third 

 discoidal, the second fills the wing beyond the third submarginal, 

 third submarginal cell at top about one-third greater than the cor- 

 responding part of the second ; abdomen clavate, compressed. 

 Length 9 mm. 



Maruru (April) ; Santarem. Three specimens. 



Agenia cingulata n. sp. 



$' . — Black, with cinereous pubescence which is especially dense 

 on face, clypeus, thorax on sides and beneath, scape beneath, lab- 

 rum, mandibles except apex, whitish ; teguke and palpi testaceous ; 

 anterior and medial femora at apex, hind femora, four anterior 

 tibiae and sides of first abdominal segment, reddish ; calcaria, ante- 

 rior and medial tarsi whitish, the latter ringed with black at apex 

 of joints ; pronotum angulate posteriorly ; middle segment evidently 

 smooth, not impressed, legs feebly spinose ; wings clear, fuscous at 

 apex, nervures and stigma black, third submarginal at top a little 

 greater than the corresponding portion of the second ; abdomen 

 clavate, compressed, the first segment as long as the two following 

 united. Length 7 mm. 



Chapada (September). 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Agenia basalis n. sp. 



$ . — Head and thorax metallic-green, including coxae ; antennae 

 above, trochanters, four hind tibiae and tarsi and abdomen except 

 base and apex, fuscous ; face, clypeus except medially, mandibles, 

 palpi, fore coxse beneath, calcaria and last dorsal abdominal seg- 

 ment, whitish ; antennae beneath testaceous ; all femora and anterior 

 tibia? and tarsi yellowish ; first abdominal segment ringed with 

 whitish, pronotum subangulate posteriorly ; middle segment micro- 

 scopically granulated, not impressed ; hind tibiae not spinose ; abdo- 

 men scarcely compressed, first segment but little longer than second ; 

 wings clear, scarcely darker apically, nervures dark testaceous, 

 third submarginal at top nearly one-quarter greater than the corre- 

 sponding portion of second ; second recurrent vein sinuous ; body 

 rather densely covered with silvery pubescence. Length b' mm. 



Santarem. 



Agenia testacea n. sp. 



$ . — Greater part of head and thorax blue-green ; face, clypeus, 

 mandibles and palpi pale yellow ; first three antennal joints (re- 

 mainder missing), prothorax except central spot above, tegular, 

 pectus, legs entirely and abdomen testaceous-yellow, the abdominal 

 segments except the first more or less obscure medially ; pronotum 

 angulate posteriorly ; middle segment not impressed, legs not spin- 

 ose ; wings clear, with a feeble tinge of yellow, nervures testaceous ; 

 third submarginal at top about one-fifth greater than the correspond- 

 ing portion of the second, second recurrent vein slightly sinuous ; 

 abdomen compressed, more robust than either of the four preceding 

 species, the first segment scarcely as long as the two following 

 united ; pubescence of body golden and sparse. Length 9 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 



The new species of Agenia described in the present paper may be 

 separated as follows : 



FEMALES. 



1. Wings hyaline, spotted or banded, 3. 



Wings otherwise colored, 2. 



2. Wings fuscous, body deep blue ; legs except coxae, trochanters, 



apex of hind tibiae and medial and hind tarsi red, . chapadce. 



Wings with costal margin broadly fuscous, otherwise hyaline ; 



body greenish ; antennae, apex of femora and tibiae and tarsi 



dark testaceous, costalis. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



3. Wings at the most with the tips fuscous ; middle segment more 



or less rugose, 4. 



Wings fasciate, the fascia including second submarginal and 



apex of third discoidal cells, tips also fuscous ; joints 4-8 of fla- 



gellum white ; legs fulvous ; pronotum maculated with yellow, 



albimacula. 



4. Head and thorax blue-green ; body pubescence cinereus ; anterior 



tibiae and femora except base red ; wings clear, nervures black, 



rugosa. 



Head and thorax coppery-green ; body pubescence golden ; legs, 

 (except coxa?), trochanters, base of femora, hind tibia? apically 

 and apex of tarsi red ; wing with a slight yellowish tinge, 

 nervures testaceous, producta. 



MALES. 



1. Wings fasciate, 2. 



Wings not fasciate, at most with tips fuscous, 3. 



2. Wings trifasciate; black, with exception of the scape, pedicellum, 



fore tibiee and tarsi, which are reddish ; anterior margin of 

 clypeus and sides of face narrowly whitish ; tibial spurs testa- 

 ceous, trifasciata. 



Wings bifasciate, fuscous ; fore legs except coxse, the medial 

 femora and tibia?, hind femora, first segment at sides and second 

 at base reddish ; sides of face and clypeus, tibial spurs and last 

 segment whitish, fragilis. 



3. Greater part of abdomen dark, the base pale, 4. 



Abdomen reddish-testaceous, the apical segments more or less 



obscure ; prothorax, pectus and legs except apical tarsal joints 

 yellowish-testaceous ; thorax blue above ; clypeus and face yel- 

 low ; first three antennal joints yellowish-testaceous, (remain- 

 ing joints wanting), testacea. 



4. Black, with cinereous pubescence ; calcaria white ; medial tarsi 



white, ringed with black at apex of joints, .... cingulata. 



Head and thorax greenish ; sides of face whitish ; four hind 



tibia? and tarsi black, basalis. 



DIPOGON n. gen. 



Allied to Agenia. Head rather flat, broader than thorax; eyes 

 scarcely separated from base of mandibles, inner margins almost 

 parallel ; ocelli distinct, forming a triangle; antenna? rather short, 

 shorter than in any species of Agenia known to me, but not thick ; 




242 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



mandibles 4-dentate at apex ; maxilla? at base with hvo long curved 

 and diverging brushes of pale hairs; maxillary palpi prominent, 

 6-joiuted ; labial palpi small, 4-jointed ; thorax oblong, compara- 

 tively longer than in Agenia ; legs rather stout, tibial spurs 1-2-2 ; 

 to the apex the claws are suddenly narrowed from their middle, 

 which point internally is formed into a small tooth ; legs not spin- 

 ose, the hind tibial slightly serrated; abdomen short and stout, the 

 first segment campulate, with a short petiole ; second ventral dis- 

 tinctly impressed transversely ; wings ample (see pi. IV, fig. 1), 

 stigma large; cubital vein of hind wing originating far beyond apex 

 of submedian cell. Type D. populator n. sp. 



Dipogon populator n. sp. PI. IV, f. 1. 



9 . — Black, more or less covered with grayish pile, especially on 

 vertex, dorsulum and scutellum ; antennse, mandibles, palpi and 

 tarsi reddish-testaceous ; clypeus transverse, short, its fore margin 

 broadly subtruncate, front not impressed ; space between hind ocelli 

 somewhat greater than that between them and nearest eye margin, 

 the space between eyes above greater than the combined length of 

 autennal joints 2 and 3 ; antenna? scarcely as long as head and 

 thorax, first joint of flagellum more than one-quarter longer than 

 second ; pronotum slightly bowed posteriorly, middle segment en- 

 tire, finely punctured, more or less rounded posteriorly ; wings clear, 

 with a fuscous fascia crossing the anteriors at the basal vein, and a 

 fuscous cloud which fills the lower half of marginal, first submargi- 

 nal and first discoidal, and the second and third submarginals and 

 third discoidal entirely ; the cloud is not strictly confined to the 

 points indicated, as it extends slightly beyond third submarginal 

 and beneath third discoidal ; nervures and stigma black ; abdomen 

 clothed with sparse, long hairs beneath and apically. Length 6 

 mm. 



Corumba (April). One specimen. 



Pompilus amethystinus Fabr. 



A large series of both sexes. Chapada (February to April) ; 

 Santarem (April) ; Corumba (April) ; Pedra Branca (April) ; 

 Uacarizal (February) ; Rio de Janeiro (October, November) ; 

 Villeta (May) ; Mararu (April). 



Pompilus echinatus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 2, 3. 



9 . — Black, with varying shades of purple and blue ; last two ab- 

 dominal segments more or less with cinereous pile, and long black 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



hairs ; face and clypeus with cinereous pile, the clypeus incurved 

 medially ; front shining, obscurely punctured ; space between eyes 

 at top less than length of first joint of flagellum ; space between 

 hind ocelli about equal to that between them and the eyes, the latter 

 distinctly converging above ; antennae slender, acuminate, the first 

 joint of flagellum nearly one-third longer than the second ; prono- 

 tum angulate behind ; middle segment rounded, with a faint im- 

 pressed line down middle ; legs exceedingly spinose, calcaria long, 

 reddish ; the inner spur of hind tibise nearly two-thirds as long as 

 the first hind tarsal joint, fore tarsal comb poorly developed in con- 

 sequence of its spines being widely separated ; claws with a sharp 

 medial tooth ; abdomen elongate-ovate ; wings fuscous, with purple 

 reflections, hind pair paler, third submarginal larger than second, 

 at top nearly three times greater than corresponding portion of sec- 

 ond basal vein, and cubital vein of hind wings interstitial ; head 

 with rather prominent long hairs, the thorax with them sparser. 

 Length 15. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). A specimen from same locality 

 (July), measures 13 mm. is blacker, and the second and third sub- 

 marginal cells differently shaped (see fig. 3). A variety or dimor- 

 phic form, perhaps. 



This species evidently belongs to Kohl's Group 1. 



Pompilus mundulus n. sp. 



9 . — Steel blue ; antennse and tarsi black, with cinereous pile, 

 especially dense on clypeus, coxse beneath and middle segment ; head 

 broader than thorax, with sparse, long, black hairs; eyes reaching 

 mandibles, not converging, space between them at the top less than 

 the length of first flagellum joint, space between hind ocelli dis- 

 tinctly less than that between them and eyes : clypeus large, fore 

 margin sub-rounded; front with impressed line; antennse fairly 

 slender, the first joint of flagellum more than one-third longer than 

 second; pronotum angulate posteriorly ; middle segment rounded, 

 not impressed; legs fairly spinose, inner spur of hind tibia? more 

 than half but less than two-thirds as long as first hind tarsal joint, 

 tarsal comb wanting ; claws with a sharp medial tooth ; abdomen 

 ovate, about as long as thorax, last segment with long, stiff hairs ; 

 wings fuscous, with reddish-purple reflection, second submarginal 

 nearly quadrate, but little narrowed above, third submarginal nar- 

 rowed more than one-half at top, its width at this point about one- 




244 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



half that of the corresponding part of second ; basal and cubital 

 (of hind wings) interstitial. Length 10} mm. 



Chapada (December). One specimen. Belongs to Kohl's Group 1. 



Pompilus triquetrus n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; abdomen at base, and dorsals 1-3, or 4, more or less 

 red (either with red fascia? or entirely of that co\or) ; head and 

 thorax maculated with bright silvery pubescence as follows : front, 

 face, clypeus, cheeks, prothorax anteriorly and a medially inter- 

 rupted line on posterior margin, dorsulum posteriorly, postscutellum 

 (metanotum), large spot on rnesopleura?, small spot at each side of 

 middle segment anteriorly and larger one at postero-lateral angles, 

 and greater part of coxse ; clypeus incurved medially ; eyes not con- 

 verging, reaching mandibles, space between them at top about 

 equalling the length of first flagellum joint ; space between hind 

 ocelli about equal to that separating them from eyes ; front strongly 

 impressed before the anterior ocellus ; antenna? rather stout, about 

 equal to length of head and thorax, the first flagellum joint as long 

 as second and a little more than half of third united ; pronotum 

 angulate posteriorly ; middle segment rounded, scarcely or not im- 

 pressed ; legs strongly spinose, tarsal comb fairly well developed ; 

 claws with a sharp median tooth, spurs testaceous, the inner one of 

 hind tibia? about equal to half the length of first hind tarsal joint (in 

 two smaller specimens it is decidedly shorter) ; abdomen large, broad 

 at base as in amethystinus, with cinereous pile, beneath and apically 

 with long black hairs ; wings fuscous, Avith a dull purplish tinge, 

 second submarginal larger than the third, oblong and narrowed 

 about one-fourth above, third submarginal triangular ; as a rule the 

 second and third transverso-cubital veins coalescing above (sepa- 

 rated in one specimen, however) ; basal vein interstitial, the cubital 

 vein of hind wings either interstitial or originating a short distance 

 before apex of submedian cell. Length 14-15 mm. 



Corumba (April) ; Chapada (November). One specimen has the 

 spots of thorax golden. Belongs with the preceding species. 



Pompilus erraticus Dhlb. 



I doubtfully refer a specimen from Corumba (March) to this spe- 

 cies. It agress with the short description given by Dahlbom, but is 

 larger, measuring 11 mm. (5} lines). 



Pompilus partitus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 4. 



9 . — Head, thorax and legs black, opaque ; abdomen except last 

 two or three segments red ; clypeus broadly subtruncate ; eyes not 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



reaching mandibles, not converging, the space between them at top 

 not equal to length of first flagellum joint; space between hind 

 ocelli equalling that between them and eyes; front with faint im- 

 pressed line, and with the vertex distinctly striato-punctate ; first 

 joint of flagellum nearly one-third longer than the second ; pronotum 

 subangulate behind ; middle segment rounded, not impressed, the 

 posterior portion slightly depressed ; legs rather strongly spinose, 

 tarsal comb fairly well developed, claws with a sharp median tooth, 

 spurs reddish ; the inner one of hind tibiee fully two-thirds as long 

 as the first hind tarsal joint; abdomen with cinereous pile, apical 

 segments with sparse long hairs ; wings dark fuscous with bluish- 

 purple reflection, second submax-ginal twice the width of third at 

 top. Length 16 mm. 



Chapada (March). One specimen. 



Pompilus deceptus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 5. 



9 . — Similar to partitus as to coloration ; anterior margin of cly- 

 peus incurved ; front smooth or finely punctured, not striate ; space 

 between hind ocelli less than that separating them from eyes, space 

 between eyes at top equal to length of first flagellum joint ; legs as 

 in partitus, but the inner spur of hind tibiae equalling but little more 

 than half the length of first hind tarsal joint ; wings as in partitus, 

 except that the third submarginal is narrower at top, equalling less 

 than one-half the corresponding portion of second. Length 14-17 

 mm. 



$. — Colored like 9 , the thorax with faint purplish reflection; 

 face with pale pubescence; eyes not reaching base of mandibles; 

 antenna? stout, longer than head and thorax, joints of flagellum 

 rounded out beneath, its first and second joints nearly equal in 

 length, the first perhaps longer ; legs strongly spinose, longer spur 

 of hind tibiee four-fifths the length of first hind tarsal joint, claws 

 bifid, the inner process the shorter and truncate ; second submargi- 

 nal cell larger than third, which is much narrowed above, the mar- 

 ginal cell rather short and broad; abdomen depressed. Length 12 

 -13 mm. 



Chapada (February, April, September). Five specimens. Has 

 a superficial resemblance to partitus, but is distinguished by smooth 

 front, etc. 



Pompilus angusticeps n. sp. " 



$ . — Head, thorax and legs black ; abdominal segments 1-3 red- 

 dish, the remainder black ; face, scape beneath, sides of thorax 

 17 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



sparsely and abdomen with cinereous pile, especially prominent on 

 dorsal segments 4 and 5 ; thorax with slight purplish reflection ; 

 head longer than broad : clypeus large, hardly twice as broad as it 

 is long in the middle, front depressed before anterior ocellus, finely 

 punctured ; space between hind ocelli distinctly less than that be- 

 tween them and eyes ; eyes distinctly separated from base of mandi- 

 bles, separated above by a distance about equal to the fifth and sixth 

 antennal joints ; joints 1 and 2 of flagellum about equal in length ; 

 pronotum angulate behind ; middle segment rounded behind, not 

 impressed ; legs strongly spinose, claws bifid, spurs large, the inner 

 one of hind tibia? nearly equal to four-fifths the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; abdomen depressed ; wings fuscous, darker apically 

 and basally with bluish reflection, width of third submarginal at top 

 less than half that of second at same place. Length 13 mm. 



Chapada (March). One specimen. Resembles male of deceptus, 

 but may be distinguished by cinereous band of dorsal segments 4 

 and 5, elongate head, etc. The antennae are also much shorter. This 

 may prove to be the male of either partitus or argenteus. 



Pompilus argenteus Tasch. 



Chapada (December). One specimen. The females of partitus 

 and deceptus are Very similar, superficially, to argenteus. The 

 medially denticulate clypeus and silvery sides of thorax of the latter 

 distinguish it from them, however. 



Pompilus pygidialis Kohl. 



Uacarizal (February) ; Chapada (April). Three specimens. 

 Pompilus fervidus Sm. 



Chapada (March) ; Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Santarem. 

 Seven specimens. 



Pompilus costatus Tasch. 



Six specimens. Chapada (January and March) ; Corumba 

 (April) ; Santarem. P. varietatis Smith, is apparently synonymous 

 with costatus. 



Pompilus vinicolor n. e\>. PI. IV, f. 6. 



$ . — Thorax, legs and base of first abdominal segment, wine-color ; 

 head, antennae above, apical tarsal joints, and abdomen black ; inner 

 and posterior orbits, dot on each side of scutellum, postscutellum 

 (metanotum), narrow lines on coxae and two spots on first dorsal 

 abdominal segment at base, yellow; dorsulum with a black stripe on 

 each side ; clypeus finely punctured, with large, sparse punctures on 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



apical portion, its anterior margin slightly incurved in the middle ; 

 eyes almost reaching mandibles, converging above, the space between 

 them at that point less than the length of first flagellum joint, but 

 greater than the second ; space between hind ocelli about equal or 

 slightly less than that between them and eyes ; first flagellum joint 

 nearly one-third longer than second ; pronotum angulate behind ; 

 middle segment rounded, not impressed ; legs tolerably spinose, an- 

 terior tarsal comb short, composed of well-separated spines, claws 

 with a rather blunt tooth in the middle, longer spur of hind tibiae 

 equal to about two-thirds the length of first hind tarsal joint, in 

 smaller specimens somewhat less ; abdomen with cinereous pile, with 

 a few, black hairs at apex and beneath ; wings having the costal 

 half of superiors fuscous, otherwise subhyaline (a hyaline streak in 

 the median cell), nervures black ; marginal rather short and narrow, 

 second submarginal somewhat wider than third. Length 10-15 mm. 



Chapada (February, April). Six specimens. 



These specimens are subject to variation : The yellow macula- 

 tion is restricted or extended, the thorax being almost destitute of 

 yellow in some, while in others that color is decidedly evident. The 

 hind margin of pronotum, two stripes on dorsulum, spots on middle 

 segment are yellow in one example, while another has the anterior 

 portion of clypeus, wine-colored. The front has peculiar sculpture, 

 which is difficult to describe, but which may be said to consist of 

 elongate punctures, coalescing and forming irregular, wavy strise. 



Pompilus exquisitus n. sp. 



9 . — Head and thorax black, including coxae, trochanters and 

 base of femora ; abdomen, legs and antenna?, wine-color ; clypeus 

 (except base), labrum, mandibles, inner and posterior orbits, face, 

 stripe extending from between antennas up to center of front, hind 

 margin of pronotum, two stripes on dorsulum, spot on each side of 

 scutellum, the postscutellum, apex of middle segment and two dots 

 before it, dot on metapleurae, an interrupted oblique stripe on meso- 

 pleurse, coxa? more or less, base of abdominal segments, particularly 

 the first and second dorsals, the others obscurely, yellow ; clypeus 

 with some large punctures apically, its fore margin slightly incurved 

 in the middle; front very finely punctured, not impressed; eyes 

 almost reaching mandibles, converging above, the space between 

 them at that point greater than length of first flagellum joint ; space 

 between hind ocelli a little less than that between them and eyes ; 

 antenna? rather short, the first flagellum joint nearly twice as long 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



as second ; pronotum subangulate behind ; middle segment rounded, 

 not impressed ; legs rather strongly spinose, claws with a rather long 

 central tooth giving them the appearance of being bifid, calcaria 

 and tarsi at base yellowish, longer spur of hind tibiae not equalling 

 two-thirds the length of first hind tarsal joint ; abdomen not pilose, 

 microscopically punctured, beneath and at apex with sparse hairs ; 

 wings yellowish, dusky at tips, the venation practically the same as 

 in vinicolor. Length 10-11 mm. 



Chapada (March, December). Two specimens. 



Pompilus familiaris Sin. 



Twelve specimens. Uacarizal (February) ; Chapada (April, 

 May) ; Corutnba (April). 



Pompilus argenteomaculatus n. ?p. PI. IV, f. 7. 



$ . — Black, with sericeous pile, especially on the abdomen which 

 has a grayish appearance ; face, clypeus, cheeks, prothorax anteriorly 

 and its posterior margin, short stripe on dorsulum near tegulse, post- 

 scutellum, greater part of middle segment, coxse more or less, and 

 spot on mesopleurae beneath, silvery, pertaining to golden in some 

 examples; leg spines, calcaria and mandibles medially, reddish ; 

 clypeus short, more than three times broader than long, fore margin 

 incurved ; eyes reaching base of mandibles, separated above by a 

 distance equal to less than length of first flagellum joint ; space be- 

 tween hind ocelli equal to or slightly less than that between them 

 and eyes ; first joint of flagellum about one-third longer than second ; 

 pronotum angulate behind; middle segment rounded, not impressed, 

 the posterior surface somewhat flattened ; legs fairly spinose, tarsal 

 comb short and feeble, claws with a sharp medial tooth, longer spur 

 of hind tibia? somewhat more than half as long as first hind tarsal 

 joint ; abdomen ovate, first segment rounded anteriorly, beneath 

 sparsely and the apex with long black hairs ; wings subhyaline, the 

 costal half of superiors and apical margins much darker, third sub- 

 marginal much larger than second, its width at top nearly twice 

 greater than the corresponding portion of second. Length 13-14 

 mm. 



Chapada (December, February, March). Three specimens. 



Pompilus imitator Sin. 



Santarem. Five specimens. 

 Pompilus turcicus Fabr. 



Santarem ; Uacarizal (February) ; Corumbii (March, April) ; 

 Chapada (November). Six specimens. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Pompilus bilunulatus Sauss. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One male. 

 Pompilus exclusus Sin. 



Santarem. One specimen. 

 Pompilus insignitus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 8. 



$ . — Black, with rather dense silken pile, which is silvery on face, 

 sides of scutellum, postscutellum and middle segment posteriorly ; 

 hind margin of pronotum (which is arcuate), fascia at base of second 

 dorsal segment, a spot at apex of fore femora, and short stripe on all 

 tibia? externally, yellowish ; five or six basal antennal joints beneath 

 fulvous ; clypeus subtruncate, about twice as wide as long in the 

 middle; eyes slightly separated from base of mandibles, at the top 

 the distance between them is about equal to the combined length of 

 the scape and following two antennal joints ; space between hind 

 ocelli somewhat less than that between them and eyes ; antenna? 

 short, barely as long as head and thorax, at any rate not longer, first 

 and second joints of flagellum about equal in length ; middle segment 

 rounded behind ; legs tolerably spinose, fore tarsi feebly so, claws 

 bifid, longer spur of hind tibia? almost equalling the first hind tarsal 

 joint; abdomen with apical margin of segments, as well as legs, 

 obscurely brownish ; wings subhyaline, the anterior portion of supe- 

 riors darker particularly from marginal cell to apex, third submar- 

 ginal longer than second beneath, at the top, however, nearly one- 

 half shorter. Length 9-10 mm. 



Santarem. Five specimens. 



Pompilus singularis n. sp. PI. IV, f. 9, 10. 



$ . — Bluish-purple, when held in certain lights changing to 

 black ; antenna? entirely black ; head very transverse, nearly one- 

 third broader than long ; eyes very shortly ovate, scarcely separated 

 from base of mandibles, diverging above, at which place they are 

 separated by a distance about equal to the posterior width of prono- 

 tum ; ocelli almost forming a curved line, the hind pair separated by 

 a distance about equal to half that between them and eyes ; front 

 with distinct, even punctures, medially impressed ; clypeus finely 

 punctured at base, striato-punctate apically broadly truncate; labrum 

 prominent ; antenna? distinctly shorter than head and thorax, thick ; 

 pronotum angulate posteriorly ; scutellum and postscutellum (meta- 

 notum) prominent and elevated, finely punctured, the postscutellum 

 at sides coarsely obliquely striated ; middle segment much lower than 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



metanotum, rather truncated, above basally obliquely striated, becom- 

 ing granulate posteriorly, while the posterior surface has a spongy 

 or porous appearance : legs scarcely spiuose, claws bifid, the ante- 

 riors with the inner part short, (hind claws missing) ; abdomen 

 elongate-ovate, with sparse, black hairs beneath, sixth ventral at 

 apex with a strong medial emargination on each side of which is a 

 strong tooth, seventh ventral slightly keeled down middle, its upper 

 surface, which is visible from above, bounded by a prominent mar- 

 gin or reflexion ; wings broad, dark bluish and purple. Length 

 18 mm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. This is a remarkable Pompilus 

 in the shape of head, sculpture, elevated postscutellum and broad 

 wings. It comes nearly to that group of species of which pygidia lis 

 Kohl and fervidus Smith, are types. The venation of wings : an 

 unusually long marginal cell ; basal vein originating before apex of 

 submedian cell ; cubital vein of hind wing originating far before 

 apex of submedian cell. 



Pompilus polistoides Sm. 



Twenty-three specimens of both sexes. Chapada (March, April, 

 November, December) ; Corumba and Maruru (April) ; Rio de Jan- 

 eiro (November) ; Santarem. This species varies considerably in 

 size, but the maculatiou is fairly constant. 



Pompilus decedens Sm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 



Pompilus rhomboideus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 11. 



9 . — Black, with a very faint tinge of blue on abdomen ; front, 

 clypeus, coxre and abdomen with cinereous pile ; head with long, 

 black, sparse hairs ; clypeus incurved medially ; front with an im- 

 pressed line ; front closely punctured ; eyes reaching mandibles 

 almost parallel within, separated at the top by a distance nearly 

 equal to length of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; space between hind 

 ocelli equalling a little more than half that which separates them 

 from eyes; first joint of flagellum more than one-third longer than 

 second ; pronotum with large lateral angles tumid, its posterior mar- 

 gin angulate; middle segment broadly rounded, slightly impressed 

 in the middle at base ; legs spiuose, but not strongly, tarsal comb 

 wanting, claws bifid, longer spur or' hind tibia? short, equal to some- 

 what more than one-third the length of first hind tarsal joint ; abdo- 

 men beneath and apically with long, black hairs ; wings dark fuscous 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



with strong purplish effulgence, second submarginal rhomboidal, 

 third submarginal very large, receiviug the second recurrent vein 

 between base and middle, basal vein and cubital vein of hind wings 

 interstitial. Length 12-14 mm. 



$ . — Similar to female, but more slender, the abdomen almost petio- 

 late ; legs scarcely spinose, claws with a basal prominence the ante- 

 rior pair bifid, longer spur of hind tibia? nearly two-thirds as long as 

 first hind tarsal joint ; wings brighter (aniline red and blue). 

 Length 9-12 mm. 



Santarem (February) ; Marurii (April) ; Rio de Janeiro (Nov- 

 ember) ; Chapada (December). Twelve female, ten male specimens. 

 Seems to be near P. tristis Kohl. 

 Pompilus nobilis Fabr. 



Rio de Janeiro (July, November); Santarem; Chapada (April). 

 P. multifasciatus Tasch., is probably identical with nobilis. 



Pompilus ?p. 



A series of male specimens from Santarem, which are very close, 

 in appearance, to nobilis 9 » but which probably belong to another 

 species, perhaps new. 



Pompilus sericeifrpns n. sp. 



9 . — Black, densely clothed with silvery pile, especially on the 

 sides of thorax, the abdomen sparsely ; antenna?, legs and upper sur- 

 face of thorax as far as middle segment not silvery ; clypeus with 

 fore margin broadly subtruncate, smooth and shining, otherwise 

 clothed with silky pile ; front densely clothed with pale golden pile, 

 impressed down the middle ; eyes reaching mandibles, very slightly 

 converging above, at which place they are separated by a distance 

 greater than the combined length of scape and pedicellum, but 

 much less than, that of first flagellum joint; space between hind 

 ocelli but little less than that which separates them from the eyes ; 

 antenna? rather long and slender, the first joint of flagellum nearly 

 as long as the two following joints united ; pronotum angulate be- 

 hind, transversely swollen medially ; middle segment indistinctly im- 

 pressed, posteriorly with coarse transverse stria? ; legs not very 

 strongly spinose, no tarsal comb, tarsi testaceous, claws bifid, calcaria 

 short, the longer spur of hind tibia? about one-fourth the length of 

 first hind tarsal joint; abdomen ovate, with sparse pale hairs at 

 apex ; wings subhyaline, the anteriors with two broad fuscous bands, 

 one crossing the wing at apex of median cell, the other including 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897- 



basal two-thirds of marginal, the second and third subrnarginal, and 

 part of third discoidal cells, apex of anteriors narrowly, that of pos- 

 teriors more broadly, faintly fuscous, marginal cell long aud lanceo- 

 late, second subrnarginal rhomboidal, receiving first recurrent vein 

 near apex, third subrnarginal large, narrowed more than one-half 

 above, at which place it is slightly narrower than the corresponding 

 portion of second, nervures dark testaceous. Length 17 mm. 



Santarem (February). One specimen. Has a superficial resem- 

 blance to nob ills Fabr. 



Pompilus manifestatus Sua. (=Agenia mani/estata Sin.). 



Santarem. The only specimen represented agrees with the descrip- 

 tion of Agenia manifestata Smith, but it is not an Agsnia. 



Pompilus scrupulus n. sp. PL IV, f. 12. 



$ . — Black, clothed with silvery pile which is visible in certain 

 lights; clypeus short, more than three times broader than long, its 

 fore margin shining and broadly truncate ; front smooth, opaque, not 

 impressed; eyes reaching mandibles, converging above, at which 

 point they are separated by a distance about equal to the length of 

 the first flagellum joint; this latter not quite twice as long as the 

 second joint ; space between hind ocelli much less than that between 

 them and eyes; pronotum angulate behind, transversely bi-tumid ; 

 middle segment smooth, rounded behind, with a longitudinal medial 

 impressed line ; legs tending to brownish, rather strongly spinose, no 

 tarsal comb, claws bifid, calcaria short, the longer spur of hind tibiae 

 about equal to one-third the length of first hind tarsal joint ; abdo- 

 men ovate, testaceous at apex ; wings subhyaline, the anteriors 

 crossed by two fuscous fascia, which are separated from each other 

 by a yellow fascia, tips slightly fuscous, second subrnarginal cell 

 rhomboidal, scarcely half size of third, which at the top is not one- 

 third wider than the second. Length 11-12 mm. 



Santarem. Nine specimens. While the hind tibia? are not ser- 

 rated, yet this species is otherwise so close to some species of Salius 

 (Cyphononyx) that I am not certain but that it should be referred 

 to the latter genus. 



Pompilus regius Fabr. 



Chapada (December, January, April) ; Santarem. Twenty-five 

 specimens. 



Pompilus scutellatus n. sp. 



$ . — Black ; tegulse and anterior tibise and tarsi testaceous ; hind 

 margin of pronotum, base of abdominal segments 1-3, and calcaria, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



whitish-yellow ; head and thorax with silvery-sericeous pile, most 

 conspicuous on face, clypeus, thorax on sides and heneath and coxa? ; 

 clypeus rather small, its fore margin broadly truncate ; front with a 

 medial impressed line ; eyes large, reaching base of mandibles, inner 

 orbits almost parallel, separated above by a distance greater than 

 the combined length of pedicellum and first flagellum joint; ocelli 

 large, the space between hind pair about equal to that between 

 them and eyes; antenna? long, much longer than head and thorax 

 united, the first joint of flagellum a little longer than second; hind 

 margin of pronotum subangulate ; dorsulum convex ; scutellum un- 

 usually high and prominent, finely and transversely striated on the 

 sides; middle segment much below level of rest of thorax, convex* 

 rounded behind, finely coriaceous and divided by a strong longitu- 

 dinal impressed line, reaching about two-thirds its length ; legs 

 graceful, not strongly spinose, claws bifid, calcaria long, the longer 

 of the hind pair not equalliug two-thirds the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; abdomen subpetiolate, clavate compressed, first segment 

 longer than second ; wings subhyaline, the superiors crossed by two 

 fuscous bands, the outer of which is the broader, nervures dark 

 testaceous, second submarginal rhomboidal, not as large as third, 

 which is narrowed about one-third to the marginal. Length 15 mm. 

 Santarem. One specimen. 



Pompilus gracillimus Sin. 



Chapada (May). One specimen. 



Pompilus resplendens n. sp. 



$ . — Front, cheeks, greater part of upper and lateral portions of 

 thorax and abdomen black or blackish with a tinge of brown ; 

 antennae, clypeus, mandibles, palpi, prothorax, legs including coxa?, 

 and teguke, pale castaneous; hind margin of pronotum, spot at apex 

 of middle segment, one on the anterior coxa?, calcaria of medial and 

 hind legs, and base of dorsal abdominal segments 1-3, yellowish ; 

 entire insect, especially the front, clypeus and sides of thorax with 

 golden pubescence ; clypeus small, broadly subtruncate anteriorly; 

 front; subopaque, with impressed line distinct; eyes large, reaching 

 base of mandibles, the inner orbits, if anything slightly diverging 

 above, at which point they are separated by a distance about equal 

 to the combined length of flagellum joints 1 and 2 ; space between 

 hind ocelli slightly greater than that between them and eyes; an- 

 tenna? longer than head and thorax united, the first and second 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



joints of flagellum equal in length ; pronotuni rounded behind ; 

 scutellurn prominent but not unusually so; middle segment rather 

 flat, impressed for two-thirds its length, the posterior surface, which 

 is but feebly defined, depressed ; legs tolerably spinose, claws bifid, 

 longer spur of hind tibiae not equal to two-thirds length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; abdomen subpetiolate, compressed, clavate, first segment 

 longer than second ; wings subhyaline, a fuscous cloud fills base of 

 marginal, apex of second and third submargiual entirely, a trace of 

 a fascia crosses the superiors at apex of median cell, second submar- 

 ginal rhomboidal, much higher than broad, the third submarginal 

 much the larger, narrowed .somewhat more than half to the mar- 

 ginal. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. 



Pompilus serratus n.sp. 



$ . — Black, with silvery-sericeous pile, especially on the thorax 

 beneath ; flagellum beneath fulvous; spot on scape beneath, on each 

 side of clypeus, mandibles except apex, hind margin of pronotum 

 obscurely, anterior coxae in part, calcaria of four hind legs, base of 

 second abdominal segment and spot on seventh dorsal segment, 

 white; palpi, anterior tibiae and tarsi, and tegulae, testaceous; ante- 

 rior margin of clypeus slightly incurved or subtruncate ; front not 

 impressed ; eyes reaching mandibles, inner orbits sinuous, somewhat 

 diverging above, the space between them at the vertex about equal 

 to the length of antennal joints 4 and 5; space between hind ocelli 

 barely half that between them and eyes ; joints of flagellum thickest 

 at base, thereby giving the flagellum a serrated appearance, the first 

 joint longer than the second ; pronotum angulate behind ; middle- 

 segment not impressed, sloping gradually from base to apex ; legs 

 not strongly spinose, claws of anterior and middle tarsi bifid, of the 

 hind tarsi apparently simple, longer spur of hiud tibiae equal to more 

 than two-thirds the length of first hind tarsal joint ; abdomen com- 

 pressed, subpetiolate ; wings subhyaline, iridescent, changing into a 

 beautiful milky-blue color when the insect is held in certain lights, 

 a fuscous cloud includes part of marginal and second submargiual, 

 and third submarginal entirely, and along the basal vein is a fuscous 

 stain ; second submarginal rhomboidal, higher than broad, smaller 

 than the third, the latter narrowed nearly two-thirds toward margi- 

 nal. Length 11 mm. 



Chapada (April) ; Santarem. The antennae are partly missing in 

 both specimens. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Pompilus fragilis Sm. 



Chapada (December, April) ; Corumba (April, May) ; Santarem 

 (May). Eight specimens. 



Pompilus ruficoxalis n. sp. 



$ . — Head, thorax and legs black with purplish pile ; abdomen 

 bluish ; four hind coxa? red ; anterior margin of clypeus slightly 

 incurved or rather subtruncate ; front with impressed line ; eyes 

 separated from base of mandibles, inner margins parallel, separated 

 above by a distance about equal to the third and half of the fourth 

 antennal joints ; space between hind ocelli less than half that separ- 

 ating them from eyes; antenna? slender, -first joint of flagellum one- 

 third longer than second; pronotum angulate behind; scutellum 

 elevated, strongly compressed ; middle segment, sloping from base 

 to apex, with scarcely any convexity, parted for two-thirds its length 

 by an impressed line ; legs rather weakly spinose, claws of fore and 

 medial tarsi bifid, the hind ones simple, longer spur of hind tibia? 

 equal to about half the length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen 

 compressed, subpetiolate, sixth ventral segment deeply and narrowly 

 emarginate in middle of apical margin, subgenital plate elongato- 

 acuminate, rather densely hirsute ; wings dark fuscous, with purplish 

 reflection, second submarginal.cell rhomboidal, slightly higher than 

 broad, third very large, narrowed less than one-half toward mar- 

 ginal. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (May). One specimen. The dark body and red medial 

 and hind coxa? form a contrast in coloration which is apparently 

 unique in the Pompilida?. 



Pompilus sulcatus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 15. 



$ . — Black ; face, clypeus and thorax on sides and beneath with 

 pale grayish pile, the pronotum anteriorly, and base dorsal abdom- 

 inal segments 1-3, or 4, with plumbeus pile; flagellum beneath and 

 tegula? obscurely testaceous ; head rather flat, the occiput somewhat 

 sunken; front with punctures running into irregular stria?; clypeus 

 with fore margin slightly incurved ; eyes well separated from base 

 of mandibles, the inner orbits converging from above their middle, 

 separated above by a distance greater than the length of pedicellum 

 and first flagellum joint united ; space between hind ocelli more 

 than one-third greater than that between them and eyes ; antenna? 

 about as long as head and thorax, the first joint of flagellum but 

 little longer than the second ; cheeks scarcely developed ; pronotum 

 evenly rounded and convex, angulate behind ; middle segment sub- 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



rounded or subtruncate, divided longitudinally by a rather broad 

 shallow furrow, which is indistinct on posterior surface ; legs with 

 with strong, though not plentiful, spines, claws bifid, no tarsal comb, 

 longer spur of hind tibia? equal to more than half length of first hind 

 tarsal joint; abdomen with a slight purplish cast; wings fuscous, 

 with purplish reflection, hind pair paler, marginal cell short, some- 

 what triangular, second submarginal subquadrate longer than high, 

 third shortly petiolate. Length 10 mm. 

 Santarem. One example. 



Pompilus varius Fabr. 



Two ( S ) specimens in the collection agree with Fabricius' brief 

 diagnosis of this species. Chapada (December) ; Santarem. 



Pompilus ornamentus n. sp. PL IV, f. 13. 



$ . — Black, somewhat iridescent in places; head in front, prono- 

 tum anteriorly, posterior half of middle segment, pleura? with spots, 

 pectus, legs, more or less particularly coxa? and femora beneath ven- 

 tral abdominal segments 1-3 and dorsals 1 and 2 laterally and bas- 

 ally, with silvery-white, sericeous pile, on segments 4-7 it is plum- 

 beus ; clypeus with fore margin slightly incurved ; front impressed, 

 especially before anterior ocellus ; eyes separated from base of man- 

 dibles, converging from above their middle, the space between them 

 above about as great as the combined length of antennal joints 3 and 

 4 ; space between hind ocelli distinctly less than that between them 

 and eyes ; antenna? short, the first and second flagellum joints about 

 equal in length ; pronotum subangulate behind ; middle segment but 

 slightly convex, not impressed, the upper and posterior surfaces not 

 separated ; legs strongly spinose, claws bifid, longer spur of hind 

 tibia? about five-sixths as long as first hind tarsal joint; abdomen 

 depressed, elongato-fusiform ; wings fuscous, paler medially, with a 

 purplish cast, second submarginal subquadrate, distinctly longer 

 than high, third smaller, triangular, greatly narrowed above. 

 Length 13 mm. 



Chapada (December). One specimen. 



Pompilus annulipes n. sp. PI. IV, f. 14. 



$ . — Head, thorax and legs, black ; abdomen and antenna? red ; 

 posterior margin of pronotum and small spot at apex of scape be- 

 neath, yellow; basal half of hind tibia? and joints 1-4 of medial and 

 hind tarsi except their extreme base and apex, whitish ; thorax and 

 base of abdominal segments with grayish pile, the middle segment 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



with dense silvery pubescence, head clothed with long pale hairs ; 

 clypeus truncate anteriorly ; front and vertex with a peculiar wrinkle- 

 like sculpturing ; eyes well separated from base of mandibles, almost 

 parallel within, separated above by a distance greater than the com- 

 bined length of the pedicellum and joints 1 and 2 of flagellum ; space 

 between hind ocelli slightly greater than that between them and 

 eyes ; antennse short, flagellum with joints irregular or swollen be- 

 neath, joints 1 and 2 about equal in length ; pronotum subangulate 

 (almost arcuate) behind ; middle segment subtruncate, impressed 

 down middle, legs with strong, though not dense, spines, claws bifid, 

 longer spur of hind tibia? slightly more than half as long as first 

 hind tarsal joint; abdomen short, compressed, a yellow spot on last 

 dorsal ; wings subhyaline, iridescent, apical margin of anteriors 

 broadly fuscous, second submarginal nearly quadrate, third smaller, 

 shortly petiolate. Length 11 mm. 

 Corumba (April). One specimen. 



Pompilus personatus n. sp. 



$ . — Colored like annulipes, except that the hind femora and the 

 middle and hind tarsi are reddish, and the flagellum black ; pubes- 

 cence or pile of head and thorax bright silvery, that on front and 

 thorax above somewhat golden ; clypeus slightly incurved anteriorly ; 

 front and vertex smooth, at most with very fine punctures ; eyes 

 separated from base of mandibles but by a much less distance than 

 in annulipes, separated above by a distance about equal to combined 

 length of pedicellum and flagellum joints 1 and 2; space between 

 hind ocelli slightly less than that between them and eyes; thorax 

 and legs as in annulipes, but calcaria reddish ; abdomen rather de- 

 pressed, last dorsal segment with silvery pile; wings colored as in 

 annulipes, with the apex of both wings dark, second submarginal 

 cell almost oblong, larger than the third, which while greatly nar- 

 rowed above, is not petiolate. Length 10-11 mm. 



Corumba (April) ; Santarem. Two specimens. 



Pompilus conterminus Sm. 



Chapada (March, April) ; Pedra Branca (April). Three spec- 

 imens. 



Pompilus fulgidifrons n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; first two abdominal segments red : face, clypeus, 

 thorax beneath with silvery pile ; tarsi obscurely reddish ; clypeus 

 finely and closely punctured, its fore margin gently incurved ; front 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



shining, impressed down middle; eyes almost reaching base of man- 

 dibles, converging somewhat above, the space between them at that 

 point about equal to the combined length of pedicellum and first 

 flagellum joint; space between hind ocelli slightly less than that 

 separating them from the eyes ; antennae fairly long, the first joint 

 of flagellum not quite one-third longer than second ; pronotum sub- 

 angulate behind ; middle segment rounded, not impressed ; legs 

 strongly, but not densely spinose, fore tarsi with comb, claws bifid, 

 longer spur of hind tibia? more than half as long as first hind tarsal 

 joint ; abdomen robust, ovate, ventral segments with large, sparse 

 punctures from which long, black hairs project ; wings fuscous, with 

 violaceous reflection, second submarginal cell rhomboidal, its length 

 and height nearly equal, the third longer, narrowed about four-fifths 

 to the marginal. Length 15 mm. 

 Chapada (March). One example. 



Pompilus caliginosus Fox (n. n. for funerem Taseh. non Lep.). 



Chapada (March). One example. Lepeletier de Saint Fargeau 

 used the name funerem for a Pompilus in 1845. 



Pompilus auripennis Fabr. 



One example. Santarem. 



Pompilus rutilans n. sp. 



9 . — Ferruginous; sutures of thorax more or less, and abdomen 

 in part, stained with fuscous ; clypeus rather long, fore margin dis- 

 tinctly incurved ; eyes separated from base of mandibles, converging 

 above at which point they are separated by a distance somewhat 

 greater than length of fourth antennal joint ; space between hind 

 ocelli about equal to that between them and eyes ; first joint of 

 flagellum more than a third longer than second ; pronotum strongly 

 convex, rather swollen laterally, hind margin arcuate; middle seg- 

 ment strongly sulcate down middle, its postero-lateral angles strongly 

 tuberculate, posterior surface strongly depressed ; legs with tolerably 

 strong spines, fore tarsi with comb, claws with a strong sharp tooth 

 near base within, longer spur of hind tibia? distinctly le$s than half 

 the length of first hind tarsal joint ; first abdominal segment sub- 

 truncate anteriorly ; wings yellowish, toward apex subfuscous, nerv- 

 ures testaceous, a fuscous fascia crosses superiors along the basal vein, 

 and a broader one origiuates in marginal cell, passing through apex 

 of second and base of third submarginal into the third discoidal cell, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



second subraarginal subquadrate, third larger narrowed about one- 

 half to marginal. Length 19 mm. 



Chapada. 



This species is remarkable in the bituberculate middle-segment. 



Pompilus (Aporus) quadrimaculatus Sm. 



Chapada (March). One example. 



Pompilus (Aporus) minutus Sm. 



Santarem. Three specimens. 



The following table will aid in determining the new species of 

 Pompilus preceding : 



1. Females, 2. 



Males, 15. 



2. Middle segment rounded, unarmed, 3. 



Middle segment strongly bituberculate : entirely reddish ; wings 



yellowish, rutilans. 



3. Claws armed with a tooth within, 4. 



Claws bifid, 11. 



4. Basal vein and cubital vein of hind wings interstitial, ... 5. 

 Basal vein and cubital vein of hind wings not interstitial, . 10. 



5. Steel-blue; length 10? mm., mundulus. 



Otherwise colored, 6. 



6. Body entirely black, 7. 



Body more or less red, 8. 



7. Thorax not silvery; abdomen obscurely blue, the fifth segment 



with pale, sericeous pile, echinatus. 



Thorax maculated with bright silvery pubescence ; abdomen 

 grayish, argenteomaculatus. 



8. Thorax black, subopaque, 9. 



Thorax maculated with bright silvery pubescence, . triquetrus. 



9. Front distinctly striato-punctate, partitus. 



Front smooth, or very finely punctured, deceptus. 



10. Head and abdomen fuscous; thorax brownish; wings with 



costal half fuscous, vinicolor. 



Head and thorax black ; abdomen brownish ; wings yellowish, 

 exquisitus. 



11. Third submargiual cell very large, fully twice the size of second, 



not petiolate, 13. 



Third submarginal small, not twice the size of second, . . . 12. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



12. Abdomen black, with cinereous pile ; third submarginal cell 



petiolate smaller than second ; middle segment strongly sul- 



cate down middle, sulcatus. 



Abdomen with first two segments red ; third submarginal not 

 petiolate, but greatly narrowed to marginal, somewhat larger 

 than second ; middle segment not sulcate, . . . fulgidifrons. 



13. Wings dark fuscous with purplish or aniline red effulgence; 



body entirely black, subopaque, rhomboideus. 



Wings subhyaline, or yellowish fasciate with fuscous, . . .14. 



14. Front not sericeous; wings with at least the portion between the 



dark fascia?, yellowish. Length 11-12 mm., . . . scrvpulus. 



Front covered with dense sericeous pile; wings hyaline between 



fascia?. Length 17 mm., serieeijrons. 



15. All claws bifid, 16. 



Anterior and middle claws bifid, posterior simple ; body dark, 



four hind coxa? red, rvficoxalis. 



16. Abdomen more or less red, : ... 17. 



Abdomen not red, 20. 



17. Wings dark fuscous ; first three segments red, 18. 



Wings subhyaline, darker apically ; abdomen entirely red, 19. 



18. Head in front not much longer than broad ; abdomen without 



cinereous pile, deceptus. 



Head in front much longer than broad ; abdominal segments four 

 and five with cinereous pile, angusticeps. 



19. Antenna? reddish; tarsal joints broadly ringed with white; 



third submarginal cell petiolate, annulipes. 



Antenna? black ; tarsi and four hind tibia? red ; third submar- 

 ginal not petiolate, personatus. 



20. Abdomen depressed, subsessile, 21. 



Abdomen more or less compressed, subpetiolate, clavate, . . 22. 



21. Posterior margin of pronotum and base of second dorsal abdom- 



inal segment, yellowish ; not maculated with pale pile ; wings 



subhyaline, darker along costa, insignitus. 



Not maculated with yellow, but the thorax and basal segments 

 of abdomen spotted with whitish pile ; wings dark, paler 

 medially, omamentus. 



22. Wings dark fuscous throughout, with blue or aniline red efful- 



gence; body dark, rhomboideus. 



Wings subhyaline, only in part fuscous, 23. 



23. Wings crossed by two heavy fascia? ; legs black ; base of seg- 



ments 1-3 whitish ; length 15 mm., scutellatus. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



Wings with a fuscous cloud in vicinity of marginal and submar- 



ginal cells, 24. 



24. Flagellum serrated beneath ; legs except calcaria black, . . . 



serratus. 



Flagellum even beneath ; front and face with golden pubes- 

 cence ; legs including coxse castaneous ; first three segments 

 broadly yellowish at base, resplendens. 



Planiceps perpictus n. sp. 



9. — Black; flagellum beneath fulvous; calcaria whitish; spot 

 on each side of dorsal segments 2-4, and an elongate one on sixth, 

 yellowish ; meso- and metapleurse and part of middle segment with 

 dense silvery pubescence, tbat on coxpe, face and clypeus less dense; 

 dorsulum at apex and scutellum with dense golden, pubescence ; 

 clypeus small sparsely punctured, anterior margin truncate; front 

 and face smooth and shining along eyes, the front above and vertex 

 striato-punctate, opaque ; space between eyes above greater than 

 combined length of antennal joints 2-4; space between hind ocelli 

 somewhat less than that between them and eyes ; first joint of flagel- 

 lum about one-fifth, or less, longer than second ; pronotum as long 

 as dorsulum and scutellum united, its hind margin slightly arcuated ; 

 middle segment subtruncate behind, its upper surface divided by a 

 longitudinal furrow ; legs spinose but not very strongly, claws bifid ; 

 abdomen compressed, longer than head and thorax ; wings with 

 superiors dark fuscous, with the median cell (except base and apex), 

 and a fascia crossing through apex of first submarginal, and discoidal 

 and base of third discoidal cells, white, extreme tips and inferiors 

 subhyaline, the latter stained with pale fuscous. Length 17-21 mm. 



Chapada, (March, April, October). The species assigned to vari- 

 pennis Perty by Spinola is evidently not that species. Perpictus 

 and varipennis Spin., (non Perty) are apparently closely related, 

 but I think distinct, although they may yet be proved to be but 

 varieties, varipennis Spinola, having but five abdominal spots, 

 whereas variegatus has seven. 



Planiceps Herbertii n. sp. 



$ . — Black somewhat bluish ; a spot at each side of dorsal seg- 

 ments 2 and 3, and the sixth almost entirely yellow ; calcaria pale ; 

 fore tarsi testaceous ; flagellum especially beneath and palpi brown- 

 ish ; apical margin of clypeus and mandibles medially, ferruginous; 

 front with brownish pile ; clypeus, thorax on sides and beneath with 

 18 




262 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



silvery pile, the apex of dorsulum with pile similar to that of front; 

 clypeus very short, broadly subtruncate, sparsely punctured ; front 

 and face depressed along eyes, particularly the face ; eyes diverging 

 above, reaching base of mandibles, separated above by a distance 

 about equal to length of antennal joints 2-5 united ; fore ocellus in 

 distinct fovea, the space between hind pair greater than that between 

 them and eyes; this intervening space depressed; antenna? stout 

 hardly as long as length of pronotum and dorsulum, first joint of 

 flagellum nearly as long as the two following united; posterior mar- 

 gin of pronotum slightly angular; middle segment subtruncate, the 

 posterior surface a little depressed ; legs robust, rather strongly 

 spinose, fore femora less than three times longer than broad, claws 

 bifid ; abdomen smooth, compressed beyond base ; fore wings fuscous, 

 bifasciate with yellowish, their tips pale, hind wings except apex 

 subhyaline with a milky-blue reflection, second submarginal receiv- 

 ing both recurrent veins. Length 16 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. Seems to be near Lacordairii Guerin, 

 but last segment is yellow above, not beneath, and the wings are 

 apparently different. 



Planiceps venustus Lep. 



Santarem. One example. 



Planiceps (!) jugosus n. op. 



9 . — Black ; more or less clothed with silvery pile, especially on 

 sides of thorax ; antennae beneath fulvous ; second and third dorsal 

 segments with a lateral pale yellow spot, the sixth segment orange ; 

 fore femora much less swollen than usual; first and second joints of 

 flagellum about equal in length ; pronotum margined on each side 

 by a strongly developed ridge or fold, posterior margin sharply 

 angulate ; dorsulum posteriorly clothed with yellow pubescence ; fore 

 wings fuscous, crossed by a hyaline band at apex of first submarginal 

 cell, the median cell also hyaline, tips subfuscous, hind wings sub- 

 hyaline, iridescent, second submarginal receiving both recurrent 

 veins. Length 6 mm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. This is very distinct in its 

 small size and carinate pronotum. 



Planiceps diverticulus n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; with scant purplish pile ; tips of mandibles red ; tarsi 

 testaceous apically ; thorax beneath sparsely, coxae in part and pos- 

 tero-lateral angles of middle segment, with silvery pile or pubescence ; 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



clypeus greatly depressed beneath level of face, fore margin rounded ; 

 bases of antennas contiguous, situated below level of face; the latter 

 when viewed from side more prominently convex than usual ; front 

 not impressed ; eyes a little separated from base of mandibles, 

 diverging slightly above, the space between them at that point 

 nearly equal to the length of antennal joints 3-5 united ; space be- 

 tween hind ocelli distinctly greater than that between them and eyes ; 

 hind ocelli situated in shallow depressions; antennae short, first 

 joint of flagellum, if anything, slightly shorter than second ; prono- 

 tum augulate behind; middle segment subemarginate behind, the later- 

 al angles rounded, legs rather strongly spinose, claws cleft ; fore femo- 

 ra at least three times as long as their greatest width ; abdomen com- 

 pressed except at base ; wings dark fuscous, with bluish pile, some- 

 what paler medially, second recurrent nervure received by the cubital 

 vein beyond apex of second submarginal cell. Length 10-15 mm. 

 Chapada (April, September). Two specimens. Resembles canes- 

 cens Smith, but is larger, less pilose, has shorter antenna?, etc. The 

 bunch of silvery pubescence on each postero-lateral angle of middle 

 segment is apparently a good superficial character. 



Planiceps canescens Sm. [=Aporus i-anescens Sm.). 



Santarem. Four specimens. Smith's description is too meagre 

 to indicate whether canescens is an Aporus or Planiceps. The spec- 

 imens in this collection agree with it, however, and they are surely 

 Planiceps. 



The Brazilian species of Planiceps, excluding P. varipennis and 

 Lacordairii Guerin, which I have not seen, may be tabulated as 

 follows : 



1. Wings fasciate or maculate ; ajbdomen spotted, 2. 



Wings fuscous throughout ; abdomen unicolored, 5. 



2. Fore wings black, with the median cell (except base and apex), 



and a fascia beyond, white, apex subhyaline ; hind wings 



stained with fuscous ; dorsulum posteriorly and scutellum with 



pale, dense, pile ; abdomen seven spotted, .... perpictus. 



Fore wings fuscous, bifasciate with subhyaline or yellow, . . 3. 



3. Pronotum laterally not ridged ; length 12 mm. or over, . . 4. 

 Pronotum sharply carinated or ridged laterally ; length 6 mm. ; 



dorsulum posteriorly with yellow pubescence ; second and 

 third dorsal segments with a pale spot on each side, the sixth 

 entirely fulvous, jugosus. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



4. Wings bifasciate with yellow, tips pale ; face strongly depressed 



behind each, antenna?; fore femora greatly swollen, their 

 greatest width equal to more than one-third their length ; all 



abdominal spots yellow, . Herbertii. 



Wings bifasciate with subhyaline, tips pale ; face not strongly 

 depressed behind antennas; fore femora not greatly swollen, 

 the greatest width less than one-third their length; spots on 

 segments 2 and 3 pale, on segment 6, fnlvous, . . . venustus. 



5. Second recurrent vein received by the cubital vein far beyond 



apex of second submarginal cell ; body almost without cinere- 

 ous pile, pertaining to purplish ; a patch of silvery pile at sides 



of apex of middle segment, diverticulus. 



Second recurrent vein interstitial with second transverso-cubital 

 vein; body with distinct cinereous pile, canescens. 



Salius (Group ?) transversus n. sp. 



9 . — Blue ; flagellum, tip of abdomen and tarsi black ; head trans- 

 verse, broader than long ; clypeus subconvex, closely punctured, fore 

 margin somewhat reflexed, subtruncate ; front closely and distinctly 

 punctured, strongly depressed before the anterior ocellus; occiput 

 indistinctly punctured ; eyes broadly subovate, almost reaching base 

 of mandibles, diverging toward top, where they are separated by a 

 distance nearly equal to the combined length of antennal joints 3-5 ; 

 space between hind ocelli about equal to half that between them and 

 eyes ; antenna? robust, the flagellum slightly thickened medially ; 

 pronotum short, sharply angulate behind ; scutellum and postscutel- 

 lum raised in the middle longitudinally; middle segment subtrun. 

 cate, not impressed above, the posterior surface rather coarsely 

 striato-punctate ; legs tolerably spinose, hind tibia? strongly serrated 

 externally, no tarsal comb, fore and medial claws bifid, hind claws 

 missing ; abdomen depressed, finely and distinctly punctured, particu- 

 larly beneath, second ventral with distinct, transverse impression, 

 anterior to which the segment is black and opaque, ventral segments 

 with long sparse, black hairs, which are also present on the apical 

 dorsals, the apical segment particularly hirsute ; wings dark fuscous 

 with brilliant blue reflection, marginal cell elongate and acuminate, 

 submargiuals large, the second oblong, narrow, smaller than third 

 which is narrowed about one-quarter to marginal, basal vein received 

 before apex of submedian cell, cubital vein of hind wings received 

 far before apex of submedian cell. Length 19 mm. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Chapada (April). This species is remarkable for the very trans- 

 verse head which in many respects is not dissimilar to that of Cero- 

 pales. The hind claws are missing in the only example in the col- 

 lection, which was not the case, however, when I first examined it. 

 Then the hind claws, as near as I can remember, were simple, a 

 character which would exclude the species from any of the present 

 known groups of Salius. Having nothing at present but my memory 

 to rely on, I would not care to assert that such a character existed, 

 although of the opinion that future specimens will indicate its pres- 

 ence. 



Salius { Gyphonyx) brevicornis Tasch. 



Corumba (April). One specimen. 



Salius [Gyphonyx) diversus Sm. [=Pompiius diversus Sm.). 



Chapada. One specimen. 

 Salius [Gyphonyx) pilifrons n. sp. PI. IV, f. 16. 



9 . — Black ; mandibles ferruginous in greater part ; tarsi brown- 

 ish ; front and dorsulum posteriorly with dense golden pile, face, 

 clypeus, thorax on sides and beneath and abdomen more or less, 

 with silvery pile ; clypeus short, transverse, more than four times 

 broader than long, fore margin broadly subtruncate ; eyes reach- 

 ing base of mandibles, converging somewhat to the top, where they 

 are separated by a distance not quite equal to length of first flagel- 

 lum joint ; space between hind ocelli less than that between them 

 and eyes ; first joint of flagellum nearly or quite as long as the two 

 following united ; pronotum angulate behind, its antero-lateral 

 angles swollen ; middle segment rounded, impressed down the mid- 

 dle ; legs strongly spinose, the serration of hind tibiae, however, not 

 very distinct, claws bifid, longer spur of hind tibise equal to less than 

 half the length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen subsessile, apical 

 margins of ventral segments testaceous ; wings subhyaline, tips darker, 

 two broad fuscous fasciae cross tbe anteriors, second cubital rhom- 

 boidal smaller than third. Length 12 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 



Salius [Gyphonyx) opacifrons Fox. 



Three specimens of this species, which was originally described 

 from Jamaica, West Indies. Santarem. 



Salius [Gyphonyx) ichneumoniformis Sm. 



One specimen. Santarem. This is the Pompilus ichneumoniformis 

 of Smith. 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Salius (Priocnemia) tegularis n. sp. PI. IV, f. 17. 



9 . — Black ; legs, tegulse, middle segment, and base of abdomen, 

 red ; head in front and thorax densely clothed with golden pile, in 

 addition to which a long, sparse, pale pubescence is present, espe- 

 cially on thorax beneath ; clypeus broadly subtruncate, about 

 three times broader than long ; front impressed ; eyes not reach- 

 ing mandibles, if anything diverging above, where they are separ- 

 ated by a distance about equal to the first and half of the second 

 joints of flagellum ; space between hind ocelli less than that separ- 

 ating them from eyes ; antenna? rather long, acuminate, the first 

 joint of flagellum about one-quarter longer than second; prono- 

 tum not strongly angulate behind ; middle segment not strongly 

 convex sloping from base to apex, not impressed ; legs rather slender, 

 fairly spinose, serration of hind tibia? distinct, longer spur of latter 

 less than one-third as long as its first tarsal joint, claws with a tooth 

 near base; first abdominal segment subpetiolate ; wings subhyaline, 

 faintly tinged with yellow, costal half of anteriors fuscous, third sub- 

 marginal cell more than twice larger than second. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (October). One specimen. 



Salius {Prioenemis) sanguinolentus Sin. 



Santarem. One specimen. This is the Agenia sanguinolenta of 

 Smith. 



Salius {Prioenemis) basirufus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 18. 



9 . — Black ; first three abdominal segments red ; face with silvery 

 pubescence ; head and thorax with long, sparse hairs ; clypeus rather 

 large, about twice as broad as long, anterior margin shining, broadly 

 subtruncate; front impressed, rather strongly convex; eyes reach- 

 ing base of mandibles, slightly diverging above, where they are 

 separated by a distance nearly equal to length of joints one and two 

 of flagellum; space between hind ocelli slightly less than that be- 

 tween them and eyes ; first joint of flagellum about one-sixth, or less, 

 longer than second; pronotum angulate behind ; middle segment 

 short, not rounded, but rather sloping from base to apex, but not 

 distinctly ; legs scarcely spinose, hind tibise strongly serrated, how- 

 ever ; abdomen subopaque, first segment short subpetiolate, impres- 

 sion of second ventral segment very distinct; wings fuscous with 

 reddish-purple reflection, third submarginal larger than the second, 

 narrowed nearly one-half to marginal, second submarginal narrowed 

 about one-quarter above. Length 9-10 mm. 



Chapada (October, November, December). Three specimens. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Salius (Priociutiiix) rutilus n. sp. PI. IV, f. 19. 



$. — Ferruginous; antennae fuscous apically; clypeus rounded 

 anteriorly ; eyes almost reaching base of mandibles diverging above, 

 separated on the vertex by a distance about equal to the first three 

 antennal joints ; space between hind ocelli distinctly less than that 

 between them and eyes; antennae long and slender, first joint of 

 flagellum but little longer than second; occiput slightly prominent 

 behind ocelli; pronotum strongly arcuate; middle segment subcon- 

 vex, sloping from base to apex ; legs tolerably spinose, hind tibiae 

 strongly serrated, its longer spur nearly or about equal to half the 

 length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen subpetiolate, the first seg- 

 ment elongate, as long as the two following united ; wings sub- 

 hyaline, two fasciae and tips slightly darker, nervures testaceous, 

 recurrent veins received by the submarginal cells between base 

 and middle. Length 8 mm. 



Santarem. 



Salius (Prioenemia) varipes n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; antennae more or less especially beneath, clypeus and 

 mandibles sometimes, four anterior tibiae and tarsi more or less, the 

 fore femora sometimes, reddish-testaceous; face and clypeus with 

 dense silvery pubescence, the remainder of the body with cinereous 

 pile ; clypeus with fore margin subtruncate, about three times or 

 more broader than long; front scarcely impressed; eyes almost 

 reaching base of mandibles, the space between them at top rather 

 less than that at bottom, a little greater than the combined length 

 of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; space between hind ocelli slightly less 

 than that between them and eyes ; pronotum angulate behind ; 

 middle segment short, rounded, not impressed, but with a triangular 

 fovea at base above; legs feebly spinose, hind tibiae delicately ser- 

 rated, its longer spur fully equal to half the length of first hind tarsal 

 joint; abdomen short, the first segment short, subpetiolate; wings 

 subhyaline, tips darker, the superiors with or without a small fus- 

 cous cloud in the vicinity of second submarginal cell, the latter 

 smaller than the third narrowed about one-quarter above, receiving 

 the first recurrent vein in the middle, or slightly before it, third sub- 

 marginal narrowed about one-quarter above, receiving the second 

 recurrent vein before the middle. Length 6 mm. 



Corumba (March) ; Chapada (April, November). Four spec- 

 imens. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Salius (Priocnemia) rufitarsus n. sp. 



9 • — Black ; antennae except five last joints, all the tarsi and fore 

 tibia?, reddish ; pubescence of head and thorax sparse, almost want- 

 ing ; clypeus rather large, fore margin broadly subtruncate, less than 

 three times broader than long ; front impressed ; eyes separated from 

 base of mandibles, space between them at top equal or greater than 

 length of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; space between hind ocelli less 

 than that between them and eyes ; antennae rather stout, the first 

 joint of flagellum nearly one-quarter longer than second; pronotuni 

 angulate behind ; middle segment short, rounded, with some trans- 

 verse folds, or rather transversely rugose, not impressed ; legs toler- 

 ably spinose, hind tibiae strongly serrated, its longer spur equal to 

 barely one-third the length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen 

 clothed with pale hairs at apex, shortly subpetiolate ; wings sub- 

 hyaline, tips darker, crossed by two dark fasciae, second submarginal 

 narrowed about one-quarter above receiving the first recurrent vein 

 a little before middle, third submarginal much larger, narrowed 

 about one-third above, and receiving second recurrent vein in the 

 middle. Length 10 mm. 



Chapada (April). One example. 



Salius (Priocnemis) citricornis n. sp. 



9- — Black, with cinereous pile; head and thorax with rather 

 long sparse pale pubescence; flagellum except basal joints above, 

 pale yellow; tarsi rufo-testaceous ; clypeus broadly subtruncate, 

 scarcely three times as broad as long; front, not impressed ; eyes 

 not or scarcely converging above, reaching base of mandibles, the 

 space between them at top about equal to the length of antennal 

 joints 2 and 3 united ; space between hind ocelli less than that be- 

 tween them and eyes; antennae slender, first joint of flagellum about 

 one-sixth longer than second ; pronotum angulate behind, dorsulum 

 strongly convex ; middle segment subrounded, rather declining from 

 base to apex, not distinctly impressed ; legs tolerably spinose, the 

 serration of hind tibiae, however, not very distinct, the longer spur 

 of the latter nearly one-half as long as the first hind tarsal joint; 

 abdomen subpetiolate ; wings subhyaline, the tips of the anteriors 

 and two cross fasciae, fuscous, third submarginal cell nearly three 

 times the length of second, receiving the second recurrent vein be- 

 tween base and middle, second submarginal narrowed one-quarter 

 above, receiving first recurrent vein in middle. Length 8 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Salius (Priocnemis) serrulus n. sp. 



9. — Black; antennae testaceous, legs darker : mesopleurae densely 

 silvery, remainder of insect with cinereous pile ; clypeus anteriorly 

 and most of mandibles, ferruginous ; clypeus strongly depressed 

 transversely, before anterior margin, front scarcely impressed , eyes 

 reaching base of mandibles, almost parallel within, space between 

 them at top about equal to length of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; space 

 between hind ocelli distinctly less than that between them and eyes ; 

 first joint of flagellum about one-fifth or more longer than second ; 

 pronotum not distinctly angulate ; middle segment rounded behind, 

 slightly impressed down middle, the posterior face more strongly so ; 

 legs not strongly spinose, but the hind tibiee with a remarkably 

 strong serration when the smallness of the insect is considered ; 

 longer spur of hind tibia? fully equal to half the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; abdomen subcompressed apically, shortly subpetiolate ; 

 wings subhyaline, iridescent, the superiors with the base, tips and 

 two cross fasciae, fuscous, second and third submarginal cells of almost 

 equal size, each receiving the first and second recurrent veins respec- 

 tively between their base and middle. Length 5 mm. 

 Corumba (March). One specimen. 



Salius (Priocnemis) setaceieornis n. sp. 



9 . — Black, with a steel-blue reflection and rather densely clothed 

 with cinereous pubescence ; clypeus broadly subtruncate, or slightly 

 rounded-out, not much more than twice as broad as long; front not 

 impressed; eyes almost reaching base of mandibles, if anything 

 slightly diverging above, where they are separated by a distance 

 fully equal to the length of antennal joints 1 and 2 ; space between 

 hind ocelli less than that between them and eyes; antennae long, 

 setaceous ; pronotum angulate behind ; middle segment rounded 

 behind, with a slight depression above at base ; legs not strongly 

 spinose, the serration of hind tibiae not distinct, longer spur of the 

 latter equal to somewhat more than half the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint; abdomen shortly subpetiolate; wings subhyaline, the 

 tips and a cross fascia in the vicinity of the second submarginal cell, 

 fuscous, second submarginal smaller than third, narrowed one-quar- 

 ter above and receiving the first recurrent vein in the middle, third 

 submarginal narrowed nearly one-half above, receiving the second 

 recurrent vein before the middle. Length 9-10 mm. 



Chapada (April) ; Santarem. Three specimens. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Salius (Priocnemie) congruus n. sp. 



9 . — Head and thorax black ; legs and abdomen steel-blue, an- 

 tennal joints 8-12, fulvous, last joint dark at tip, scape and base of 

 flagellum beneath testaceous ; head large, much broader than thorax, 

 somewhat subquadrate ; clypeus rather flat, broadly truncate, three 

 times or more broader than long; front faintly impressed; eyes 

 almost reaching base of mandibles, slightly, if anything, converging 

 above, at which point they are separated by a distance greater than 

 the combined length of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; space between hind 

 ocelli much less than that between them and eyes; antenna? long, 

 setaceous, first joint of flagellum but little longer than second ; 

 pronotum angulate behind ; middle segment sloping gradually from 

 base to apex, slightly convex, slightly depressed in middle before 

 apex ; legs scarcely spinose, the serration of hind tibia? exceedingly 

 delicate, and indistinct, longer spur of hind tibia? about equal to 

 half the length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen shortly subpetio- 

 late ; wings subhyaline, the tips and two cross fascia? of the anteriors, 

 dark, second submarginal cell subquadrate, scarcely half the size of 

 third, and receives the recurrent vein between middle and apex, 

 third submarginal narrowed about one-third to marginal, long, re- 

 ceiving the second recurrent vein between base and middle. Length 

 11 mm. 



Santarem. Two specimens. The thorax beneath, postscutellum 

 and apex of middle segment, more or less with silvery pubescence. 



Salius (Priocnemw) clypeatus n. sp. 



9 . — Black, with obscure steel-blue reflection ; flagellum beneath 

 and joints 4-7 entirely, yellowish apical joints black ; face, clypeus, 

 thorax beneath, postscutellum and apex of middle segment with 

 silvery pubescence ; head transverse, not much wider than thorax ; 

 clypeus subtriangular, its fore margin acute in the middle ; front 

 faintly impressed ; eyes almost reaching base of mandibles, converg- 

 ing above, the space between them at that point equal to less than 

 the combined length of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; distance between 

 hind ocelli less than that between them and eyes ; antenna? long, first 

 joint of flagellum longer than second ; pronotum subangulate behind ; 

 middle segment rather short, convex, depressed posteriorly, indis- 

 tinctly impressed ; legs scarcely spinose, serration of hind tibia? 

 delicate and indistinct, the longer spur equal to somewhat less than 

 half the length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen shortly subpetio- 

 late ; wings subhyaline, the tips and two cross fasica? of anteriors, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



dark, second submarginal subquadrate, about one-third the size of 

 third, and receiving first recurrent vein in middle, third submarginal 

 large, narrowed about one-third to marginal, receiving the second 

 recurrent vein between base and middle. Length 12 mm. 



Santarem. Two specimens. Bears a superficial resemblance to 

 congruus, but is quite distinct in the forms of clypeus, etc. 



Salius (Priocnemis) egensis D. T. (=Priocnemis opulentus Sm.). 



Santarem. One specimen. This species has a remarkable resem- 

 blance to Pompilus regius Fabr., but it is purely superficial, as the 

 subpetiolate abdomen and serrated hind tibia? of egensis easily dis- 

 tinguish it from regius. 



Salius (Priocnemis) nigerrimus n. sp. 



9 . — Deep black ; without pale pubescence; fore margin of clypeus 

 subtruncate, or slightly incurved ; front impressed, but not strongly ; 

 eyes almost reaching base of mandibles, inner orbits parallel, the 

 space between them at top about equal to the length of the first and 

 half of the second joints of flagellum ; space between hind ocelli 

 much less than that between them and eyes ; antenna? fairly slender, 

 the first joint of flagellum longer than second ; pronotum angulate 

 behind ; middle segment rounded, feebly impressed down middle, 

 legs not strongly spinose, serration of hind tibia? distinct, longer spur 

 of hind tibia? equal to about two-fifths of the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; wings dark fuscous, with purplish reflection, third sub- 

 marginal cell receiving the second recurrent vein in the middle, 

 twice as large as the second, which receives the first recurrent vein 

 in the middle. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (April). One example. 



Salius (Priocnemis) hexagonus n.sp. 



9 . — Dark steel-blue or green, thorax black ; dorsulum and 

 scutellum with golden pile, that on thorax on sides and beneath, 

 silvery ; tarsi testaceous ; antennal joints seven and eight and ninth 

 beneath, yellow ; clypeus large, hexagonal, distinctly punctured 

 anteriorly, broadly truncate ; eyes not reaching base of mandibles, 

 space between them at top greater than length of antennal joints 2 

 and 3 ; space between hind ocelli less than that between them and 

 eyes ; first joint of flagellum fully one-third longer than second which 

 latter is shorter than any of the following, except, perhaps the last; 

 head large, subquadrate, but not wider than thorax ; thorax robust ; 

 pronotum short, rounded behind, transversely swollen anteriorly ; 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



middle segment rounded, convex, covered with cinereous pile,scarcely 

 impressed ; legs not strongly spinose, the serration of hind tibiae not 

 strongly marked, their longer spur equal to not more than one-quar- 

 ter of the length of first hind tarsal joint ; apical margin of abdom- 

 inal segment narrowly testaceous, the apical ventral segments with 

 short, stiff yellowish hairs ; wings pale yellow, paler apically, tips 

 and a spot in third discoidal cell, light fuscous, second submarginal 

 receiving the first recurrent near apex, rhomboidal, third submar- 

 ginal three or four times larger than the second, receiving the recur- 

 rent vein before the middle. Length 16-17 mm. 

 Santarem. Two specimens. 



Salius (Priocnemis) auratus n. sp. 



9 • — Black, abdomen slightly bluish, shining ; head and thorax 

 opaque; sides of scutellum, the postscutellum and middle segment 

 covered with golden pile ; face and clypeus and thorax beneath with 

 sparse silvery pile ; antennal joints 6-8, or 9, fulvous ; clypeus large, 

 somewhat hexagonal, strongly punctured anteriorly, fore margin 

 broadly subtruncate or a little incurved ; eyes not reaching base of 

 mandibles, converging somewhat above, separated at the top by a 

 distance about equal to or slightly greater than the combined length 

 of antennal joints 2 and 3 ; space between hind ocelli equal to more 

 than half that between them and eyes ; first joint of flagellum not 

 quite one-third longer than second ; pronotum almost arcuate be- 

 hind, longer than in hexagonus, strongly convex or swollen especially 

 at the sides ; middle segment short, rounded, broadly and shallowly 

 channelled down middle, with strong, transverse stride or folds, which 

 are indistinct or absent at base and apex ; tarsi tolerably spinose, 

 the tibiae poorly so, hind tibiae indistinctly serrated, longer spur of 

 hind tibiae equal to more than one-third of the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; abdomen with last segment with rather dense brown 

 hair, ventral segments more or less clothed with tolerably dense 

 fuscous hair ; fore wings as far as base of second submarginal yellow, 

 then as far as middle of third submarginal fuscous, beyond this 

 whitish with tips fuscous, hind wings yellow with broad fuscous 

 apex, second submarginal oblong, receiving first recurrent vein just 

 beyond middle, third submarginal large, narrowed nearly one-third 

 to marginal, receiving second recurrent vein at about middle. Length 

 15-19 mm. 



Chapada (March). Two specimens. The color of the wings gives 

 the insect a striking appearance. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Salius (Priocnemis) fuscomarginatus n. sp. 



9- — Black; abdomen steel-blue; antennas from base of sixth 

 joint to base of ninth, orange-yellow; clypeus somewhat hexagonal, 

 fore margin distinctly incurved ; eyes converging above, not reach- 

 ing base of mandibles, separated at top by a distance about equal to 

 length of first joint of flagellum ; antennas longer than in auratus 

 fully as long as head, thorax and first abdominal segment ; space be- 

 tween hind ocelli equal to more than half that between them and 

 eyes; pronotum angulate behind; middle segment with a broad, 

 shallow furrow down middle, with coarse transverse striae, becoming 

 obsolete basally ; legs tolerably spinose, hind tibia? hardly serrated, 

 their longer spur hardly equal to one-third the length of first hind 

 tarsal joint ; abdomen subpetiolate, the apical segment punctured 

 and clothed with brownish hairs ; wings bright yellow, apical mar- 

 gin of anteriors narrowly fuscous ; second submarginal cell rhom- 

 boidal, not much more than one-third as large as the third, the latter 

 narrowed about one-third above and receives the recurrent vein in 

 the middle. Length 18 mm. 



$ . — Colored like 9 , but abdomen black, and the entire insect 

 has pale sericeous pile ; clypeus more quadrate, its fore margin much 

 broader and the emargination triangular ; striation of middle segment 

 more irregular and not so strong ; longer spur of hind tibia? equal to 

 more than one-third of the length of first hind tarsal joint; third 

 submarginal cell shorter than in the 9 . receiving the recurrent vein 

 before middle. Length 15 mm. 



Two specimens ( 9 $ ). Chapada (December) ; Santarem (Feb- 

 ruary). 



Salius (Priocnemis) convergens n. sp. 



9 . — Black somewhat velutinous with brownish pile ; dorsulum 

 and scutellum with golden-brown pile ; flagellum beneath from 

 second joint, five last joints entirely, inner orbits obscurely, yellow- 

 testaceous ; apical margins of abdominal segments testaceous; clypeus 

 transverse, its fore margin broadly subtruncate; eyes almost reach- 

 ing base of mandibles, strongly converging above, separated at top 

 by a distance about equal to length of scape ; ocelli large, space be- 

 tween hind pair fully twice as great as that between them and eyes; 

 first joint of flagellum more than one-third longer than second; 

 pronotum angulate behind, antero-laterally not swollen, but evenly 

 convex ; middle segment rounded, parted by a feeble longitudinal 

 furrow, and with a few transverse striae at extreme apex ; legs 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [1897. 



strongly spinose, the hind tibiae distinctly serrated, the saw-like teeth 

 very acute, longer spur of hind tibiae equal to somewhat more than 

 one-third of the length of first hind tarsal joint ; abdomen subsessile, 

 robust ; wings pale yellow, the anteriors crossed by a broad fascia, 

 which includes marginal (except base), third submarginal, and apex 

 of third discoidal cells, second submarginal cell somewhat oblong, 

 much smaller than third especially in height, receiving the recurreut 

 vein beyond middle, third submarginal narrowed about one-third to 

 marginal, receiving the second recurrent vein before the middle. 

 Length 17 mm. 



Santarem (February). One specimen. 



Salius (Priocnemis) vitreus n. sp. 



9 . — Black, somewhat velutinous with brownish pile; the flagel- 

 luin beneath beginning at joint 2, and last five joints entirely, 

 orange-yellow ; legs somewhat testaceous ; clypeus transverse rather 

 coarsely punctured anteriorly, its fore margin slightly incurved ; 

 eyes reaching base of mandibles, converging above, separated at the 

 top by a distance almost equal to length of second and third antennal 

 joints; space between hind ocelli greater than that between them 

 and eyes; first joint of flagellum more than a third longer than 

 second ; front feebly impressed ; pronotum angulate beneath, not 

 tumid ; middle segment rounded, convex, its upper surface parted 

 by a shallow furrow, smooth and somewhat shining at extreme apex ; 

 legs strongly spinose, the hind tibiae with the serration unusually 

 strong, longer spur of hind tibiae equal to a little more than one- 

 third the length of the first hind tarsal joint ; abdomen subsessile, 

 clothed apically, and beneath sparsely, with erect black hairs ; wings 

 pale-yellowish, vitreous, having the appearance of isinglass or fish- 

 glue, second submarginal cell elongate, narrow receiving the recur- 

 rent vein at about middle, third submarginal more than twice as 

 large as the second, narrowed about one-third to marginal, receiving 

 the recurrent vein before middle. Length 15 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One specimen. 



Salius (Priocnemis) orbitalis n. sp. 



$ . — Black, velutinous with pale pile ; tarsi and teguke testaceous ; 

 flagellum beneath front joint 2 and the last five entirely, orange- 

 yellow ; inner orbits pale testaceous ; head with some spare, black 

 hairs, those on the clypeus and mandibles brown ; clypeus transverse, 

 coarsely punctured anteriorly, its fore margin broadly subtruncate 




1897.] B NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



or a little incurved ; eyes slightly separated from base of mandibles, 

 converging distinctly above, separated at the top by a distance 

 scarcely equalling the first joint of flagellum; ocelli large, the space 

 between hind pair decidedly greater than that between them and 

 eyes ; pronotum angulate behind, somewhat swollen antero-laterally ; 

 middle segment rounded, feebly impressed, subopaque ; legs strongly 

 spinose, the serration of hind tibise very strong ; longer spur of hind 

 tibiae equal to a little more than one-third of the length of the first 

 hind tarsal joint ; abdomen subsessiie, robust, apical segment densely 

 clothed with brown hairs ; wings pale fuscous, with purplish reflec- 

 tion, apex paler, hind wings paler, not resplendent with purplish, 

 second submarginal cell narrow, elongate, receiving the recurrent 

 vein a little beyond middle, third submarginal much larger, nar- 

 rowed about one-quarter above, reciving the second recurrent before 

 the middle. Length 24 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. Differs from the two preceding in 

 color of wings, larger size, etc. 



Salius (Priocnemia) luteicornis Lep. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One example. 



Salius (Mygnimia) carinatus Lep. 



Chapada (March, October, December) ; Corumba (April). Five 

 specimens. 



Salius (Mygnimia) bituberculatus Guerin. 



Three specimens. Rio de Janeiro (October, November) ; Santa- 

 rem. This is the Pompilus bituberculatus Guerin. Four specimens 

 which may be the male of this species, resemble the female in colora- 

 tion, are as a rule smaller, and the second ventral segment lacks 

 the long, teat-like tubercles so characteristic of the female. The last 

 ventral plate is carinated down the middle, rounded at apex. These 

 males came from Rio de Janeiro, Santarem and Chapada. 



Salius (Mygnimia) mammillatus n. sp. 



9 . — Resembles bituberculatus, but is black, with slight purplish 

 pile; antenna? with joints 1, 2 and 3 except apex, black, four and 

 five orange-yellow, the remainder missing ; clypeus with long black 

 hairs, its fore margin broadly subtruncate ; front distinctly impressed ; 

 eyes just about reaching base of mandibles, converging above, the 

 space betwen them at top about equal to length of fourth antennal 

 joint ; ocelli approximate, the space between hind pair less than half 

 of that between them and eyes ; pronotum angulate behind ; poste- 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ( [1897. 



rior half of dorsulum bearing a medial longitudinal carina, which 

 does reach apex, however ; middle segment rounded, shallowly sul- 

 cate down middle, crossed by somewhat irregular, coarse rugae or 

 folds ; legs tolerably spinose, the serration of hind tibiae distinct ; 

 longer spur of hind tibise less than one-third of the length of first 

 hind tarsal joint ; ventral abdominal segments sparsely punctured, 

 becoming more closely and coarsely so on the apical segments, the last 

 one almost scabrous, second ventral with two large widely separated, 

 teat-like tubercles ; wings black, with bluish reflection, the superiors 

 subhyaline at apex. Length 28 mm. 



Santarem. One specimen. Allied to bituberculatus, but clypeus 

 not incurved, dorsulum carinated, tips of superior wings pale, eyes 

 narrowed more to top, etc. 



Salius (Mygnimia) dumosus Lep. 



Three females. Rio de Janeiro and Chapada in November. The 

 abdominal tubercles are small and blunt and comparatively approx- 

 imate in this species. 



Salius {Mygnimia) perpunctatus n, sp. 



9 . — Black ; flagellum beneath from the second, the last seven 

 joints entirely, orange-yellow ; head with long sparse, black hairs ; 

 clypeus rather longer than in bituberculatus, with a few very coarse 

 punctures anteriorly, the fore margin distinctly incurved ; front 

 shining distinctly impressed, and with a short oblique furrow on 

 each side near the eye ; eyes not strongly converging, barely separ- 

 ated from base of mandibles, the space between them at top some- 

 what greater than the length of the fourth antennal joint ; space be- 

 tween hind ocelli equal to about half of that between them and eyes ; 

 pronotum sharply angulate behind, transversely and obliquely de- 

 pressed just before its hind margin ; dorsulum subcarinated down 

 middle, most distinctly on posterior portion ; scutellum prominent, 

 with two or three very large punctures ; middle segment transversely 

 striated, with a broad shallow further down middle, on each side of 

 which the upper surface is depressed ; legs strongly spinose, the ser- 

 ration of hind tibia? very strong; longer spur of hind tibise equal to 

 less than one-third of the length of the first hind tarsal joint ; fore 

 coxae with coarse scabrous punctures; abdomen with tolerably dis- 

 tinct, sparse, punctures above, those of the ventral surface much 

 coarser, the second ventral segment with two widely separated 

 obtuse tubercles which slope toward the sides ; apical margins of seg- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



merits testaceous, the apical ones with long browa hairs; wings 

 yellow, narrowly subfuscous at apex. Length 18-22 nam. 

 Chapada (December). Two specimens. 



Synoptic Table of the New Species of Salius described in the pre- 

 ceding pages. 



1. Tarsal claws cleft, 2. 



Tarsal claws dentate, 4. 



2. Head very transverse, flat; antenna? short and thick; entirely 



blue, including wings, transversus. 



Head not very transverse, of the usual form ; antennae long and 

 usually slender, 3. 



3. Front clothed with a dense golden pile ; second submarginal 



cell rhomboidal, scarcely narrowed above; . . . . pilifrons. 

 Front subopaque without pile; second submarginal cell some- 

 what triangular, narrowed nearly two-thirds above, 

 opacifrons. 



4. Second ventral segment bituberculate or carinate, 21. 



Second ventral segment not tuberculate or carinate, .... 5. 



5. Head, thorax, or abdomen more or less reddish, 6. 



Head, thorax and abdomen not reddish, 8. 



6. Entirely red, rutilus. 



Not entirely red, 7. 



7. Legs and middle segment reddish ; thorax with golden pile, . 



tegularis. 



Abdomen except apex red ; otherwise the insect black ; thorax 

 without pale pile ; wings fuscous, basirufus. 



8. Wings subhyaline, more or less fasciate or spotted with fuscous, 



9. 



Wings otherwise colored, 15. 



9. Wings not distinctly fasciate, with a small, variable cloud in 



the vicinity of the second submarginal cell; fore tibiae and 



tarsi and antennae testaceous, varipes. 



Wings bi- or trifasciate, 10. 



10. Hind tibiae very strongly serrated, 11. 



Hind tibiae feebly or indistinctly serrated, 12. 



11. The tarsi and fore tibiae red, as are also the seven basal joints of 



antennae ; middle segment somewhat rugose. Length 10 mm., 



rufitarsus. 



Legs and antennae testaceous ; mesopleurae and middle segment 

 with silvery pubescence. Length 5 mm., serrulus. 



19 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



12. Antenna? entirely black ; bod) T steel-blue with a rather dense 



cinereous pile, setaceicornis. 



Antenna? more or less yellowish, 13. 



13. Head subquadrate ; clypeus broadly subtruncate ; last five 



anteunal joints yellowish, congruus. 



Head transverse as usual, 14. 



14. Flagellum beneath and joints 7-10 entirely, yellowish ; clypeus 



broadly subtruncate. Length 8 mm., eitricornis. 



Flagellum beneath and joints 5-10 entirely yellowish ; clypeus 



subtriangular, its fore margin acute in middle ; length 12 mm., 



clypeatus. 



15. Wings fuscous, 16. 



Wings more or less yellowish, 17. 



16. Form slender; entirely deep black, including wings which have 



also a purplish reflection. Length 12 mm., . . nigerrimus. 



Form robust; velutinous with pale pile; last five antennal 



joints entirely and tbe flagellum beneath orange ; wings pale 



fuscous. Length 24 mm., orbitalis. 



17. Wings not fasciate with fuscous, at tbe most the apical margins 



or a spot in the third discoidal cell, fuscous, 18. 



Wings crossed by a broad fascia, 20. 



18. Thorax more or less clothed with golden pile, especially on 



dorsulum and scutellum ; wings pale yellow, with a fuscous 

 spot in third discoidal cell, body with a steel-blue reflection, 



hexagonus. 



Thorax not pilose ; wings not spotted, 19. 



19. Wings bright yellow, apical margin narrowly fuscous ; clypeus 



somewhat hexagonal, fore margin incurved ; serration of hind 

 tibiae indistinct ; middle segment transversely striated, . . . 



fuscomarginatus. 



Wings vitreous, having the appearance of isinglass or fish-glue ; 

 clypeus transverse, subtruncate ; serration of hind tibia? very 

 strong, •. vitreus. 



20. Middle segment densely clothed with golden pubescence trans- 



versely striated ; hind tibia? indistinctly serrated, abdomen 



subpetiolate, auratvs 



Middle segment nude, smooth ; hind tibia? coarsely serrated ; 

 abdomen subsessile, convergens. 



21. Wings black, with bluish reflection; dorsulum carinated apic- 



ally; clypeus broadly truncate mammillatus. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Wings yellow; dorsulum subcarinate down middle; clypeus 

 broadly eraarginate or incurved, perpunctatus. 



Calicurgus pretiosus n. sp. 



9 • — Black ; tarsi somewhat testaceous ; thorax on sides, beneath 

 and on middle segment with dense silvery sericeous pile ; head wider 

 than thorax, transverse; clypeus transverse, finely punctured, ante- 

 riorly coarsely so, the fore margin a little incurved ; front micro- 

 scopically punctate, the impressed line reaching from base of antennae 

 half way to ocelli ; eyes strongly converging above, reaching base of 

 mandibles, separated above by a distance barely equalling length of 

 fourth antennal joint ; space between hind ocelli about equal to that 

 between them and eyes ; pronotum subangulate behind ; middle seg- 

 ment rounded, not impressed ; legs tolerably spinose, serration of 

 hind tibia? distinct, their longer spur almost equal to two-thirds the 

 length of first hind tarsal joint; abdomen subsessile, ventral seg- 

 ment with large, very sparse punctures ; wings subhy aline, the ante- 

 riors crossed by two dark fasciae, the outer of which by far the 

 larger, including the marginal, second and third submarginals, tip 

 of the second and most of the third discoidal cells ; second submar- 

 ginal cell rhomboidal, smaller than the third, receiving the recur- 

 rent vein in the middle, third submarginal narrowed fully one-half 

 above, and receives the recurrent vein before the middle. Length 

 12 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). 



Calicurgus cinereus n. sp. 



9. — Black; tarsi somewhat testaceous; thorax beneath and on 

 middle segment with silvery pile in certain lights ; head wider than 

 thorax, transverse, front impressed for its entire length, microscopic- 

 ally punctured ; clypeus rather large, apical half highly polished, 

 fore margin a little incurved; eyes reaching base of mandibles 

 strongly converging above, separated at the top by a distance scarcely 

 equal to length of fourth antennal joint ; antenna? long and slender ; 

 pronotum subangulate behind ; middle segment rounded, shining, 

 not impressed ; legs not strongly spinose, serration of hind tibiae dis- 

 tinct, their longer spur equal to more than half the length of first 

 hind tarsal joint ; abdomen subsessile, with sparse, pale pile ; wings 

 subhyaline, the anteriors crossed by two fuscous bands, the outer of 

 which the larger, and includes marginal except apex, tip of first sub- 

 marginal, second and third submarginals, entirely, and apical half 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



of third discoidal and beyond, second submarginal rhornboidal, re- 

 ceiving first recurrent vein beyond middle, third submarginal larger, 

 narrowed about one-third above and receiving recurrent vein con- 

 siderably before the middle. Length 10 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One specimen. To the naked eye 

 the insect has a blue-gray appearance, due to the pile with which it 

 is clothed. The third submarginal is differently shaped from that 

 of C. machetes Kohl. 



Calicurgus machetes Kohl. 



A specimen from Santarem is perhaps this species. 

 Calicurgus idoneus Kohl. 



Santarem. One specimen. • 



Calicurgus nuhilus n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; face, clypeus, thorax on sides and beneath, middle 

 segment and abdomen more or less, with silvery pile, especially 

 obvious in certain lights, that on the abdomen rather sparse and less 

 silvery ; clypeus transverse, anteriorly shining and with large sparse 

 punctures ; front smooth or indistinctly punctured, hardly impressed ; 

 eyes strongly converging above, reaching base of mandibles, separ- 

 ated at the top by a distance scarcely equalling length of fourth 

 antennal joint ; space between hind ocelli perhaps a little greater 

 than that between them and eyes ; pronotum subangulate behind ; 

 middle segment rounded, somewhat shining not impressed ; legs not 

 very strongly spinose, serration of hind tibire distinct, their longer 

 spur equal to nearly two-thirds the length of first hind tarsal joint; 

 abdomen subpetiolate, the transverse impression of second ventral 

 segment in the middle and almost S-shaped, longer pubescence of 

 abdomen pale; base and apex of superior wings and inferiors except 

 apex, subhyaline, the greater portion of the superiors is covered by 

 a fuscous cloud ; second submarginal rather rhornboidal, narrowed 

 about one-quarter above and receiving the recurrent vein a little 

 beyond middle, third submarginal larger narrowed nearly one-half 

 or about two-fifths to the marginal and receives the recurrent vein 

 between base and middle. Length 8-10 mm. 



Chapada (January, March, April, November) ; Santarem. Seven 

 specimens. The species is easily recognized by the wings. 



Pepsis aurozonata Sm. 



One specimen from Santarem. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Pepsis chrysobapta Sm. 



Same locality as aurozonata. One male. 



Pepsis aurifex Sm. 



Chapada. One specimen. 



Pepsis speciosa Sm. 



Santarem. One specimen. 



Pepsis sumptuosa Sm. 



Chapada (November, December, March, April). Three females, 

 nine males. The Pepsis eximia Sm. (non R. Luc.) is, in my opinion, 

 the $ of this species, and I therefore propose the name confusa for 

 P. eximia R. Luc. (non Smith).. 



Pepsis citreicornis Mocs. 



One specimen. Santarem (February). 



Pepsis sp. 



Perhaps brunneicornis R. Luc, but differs somewhat, from the 

 description of the latter. One specimen, Corurnba (April). 



Pepsis pan Mocs. 



Chapada (October) ; Santarem. Two examples. 



Pepsis varipennis Pel. 



Twenty-one specimens, (3 9 and 18 <?). Chapada (March, April, 

 September, October, November, December). 



Pepsis decorata Perty. 



One specimen. Santarem. 



Pepsis vau-alba Sm. 



Four specimens. Chapada (March, September, October). 



Pepsis completa Sm. 



Twenty-three female, and thirty-three male, specimens. 



Pepsis dimidiata Fabr. 



Ten female, and nine male, specimens. Chapada (March, Octo- 

 ber, November) ; Santarem (February). 



Pepsis maeandrina Luc. 



Four specimens. Chapada (November, December, January). 



Pepsis lucidula Sm. 



One specimen. Santarem (April). 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Pepsis pretiosa Dhlb. 



Three specimens. Chapada (April). 

 Pepsis venusta Sin. 



Chapada (March, April, June, August, October, December) ; 

 Corumba (April) ; Mararu (April) ; Santarem. Twenty-seven spec- 

 imens. 



Pepsis Pertyi Luc. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. 

 Pepsis helvolicornis Luc. 



Santarem. One example. 

 Pepsis xanthocera Dhlb. 



One example. Rio de Janeiro (November). 

 Pepsis fulgidipennis Mocs. 



Chapada (March, April, September) ; Santarem. Fifteen female 

 specimens. 



Pepsis violaceipennis Mocs. 



Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Chapada (December) ; Santarem ; 

 Mararu. Six specimens. 



Pepsis crassicornis Mocs. 



Fourteen specimens. Chapada (February, March, April). 



Pepsis chlorotica Mocs. 



Rio de Janeiro (November). One example. Lucas doubtfully 

 refers this species to his group P. ianthina, hymencea, elevata, etc., 

 in which action he is probably correct, although the wings have a 

 brighter sheen than the species of that group. 



Pepsis mystioa Luc. 



One specimen. Rio de Janeiro (November). 



Pepsis sagana Mocs. 



Two examples. Chapada (March) ; Rio de Janeiro (November). 



Pepsis advena Mocs. 



Chapada and Corumba in April ; Rio de Janeiro (November). 

 This species belongs in the group with two preceding ones. 



Pepsis smaragdinula Luc. 



Twelve specimens ( 9 $ ). Rio de Janeiro (October, November) ; 

 Chapada (January, March, April). 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



Pepsis purpureus Sm. 



Two specimens. Santarem (February). This also belongs to the 

 group containing sagana, smaragdinula, etc. 



Pepsis elevata Fabr. 



Chapada (April, December); Corumba (April, May); Uacarizal 

 (February). Nine female, ten male specimens. 



Pepsis elongata Lep. 



Santarem. 

 Pepsis pulchripennis Mocs. 



Twenty-four specimens. Chapada (March, April, November, 

 December) ; Santarem. 



Pepsis rubescens Luc. 



Santarem. One specimen. 

 Pepsis ferruginea Lep. 



Santarem. One example which agrees well with the poor descrip- 

 tion of ferruginea. It belongs in the same group as P. marginata. 



Pepsis sinnis Luc. 



One specimen. Corumba (April). 



In addition to the foregoing species of Pepsis, Herr Lucas will 

 shortly describe five new species which form part of this collection. 



F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 

 F 



Explanation of Plate IV. 



g. 1. Dipogon populator. 



g. 2. Pompilus echinatus. 



g. 3. Pompilus echinatus? var. ? 



g. 4. Pompilus partitus. 



g. 5. Pompilus deceptus $ . 



g. 6. Pompilus vinicolor. 



g. 7. Pompilus argenteo-maculatus. 



g. 8. Pompilus insignitus. 



g. 9. Pompilus singularis. 



g. 10. Pompilus singularis. 



g. 11. Pompilus rhomboideus. 



g. 12. Pompilus scrupulus. 



g. 13. Pompilus ornamentus. 



g. 14. Pompilus annulipes. 



g. 15. Pompilus sulcatus. 



g. 16. Salius pilifrons. 



g. 17. Salius tegularis. 



g. 18. Salius basirufus. 



g. 19. Salius rutilus. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



NOTES ON PLANT MONSTROSITIES. 

 BY IDA A. KELLER. 



In one of his " Physiologischen Notizen," 1 Professor Sachs forci- 

 bly calls attention to the exaggerated and erroneous morphological 

 significance which has been attributed to monstrosities. He con- 

 tends that monstrosities are simply monstrosities and not " sugges- 

 tions " as to the typical morphological nature of organs as implied 

 constantly by the teachings of the present day morphology. 2 He 

 urges that it is but proper to regard them as the result of a contest 

 between normal tendencies and accidental external agencies. His 

 final and emphatic verdict is : " Monstrosities represent a chaos 

 without law and order." 3 Professor Goebel takes the same point of 

 view, stating that most of the results obtained thus far in the field of 

 teratology must be regarded as useless ; the method of reasoning 

 from that which is deformed to that which is normal is a mis- 

 taken one. 4 He indicates the direction in which this important 

 branch of botany should be developed when he says : " The prob- 

 lem of this science is not to seek in deformities 'revelations' of 

 nature but to explain how these deformities have come to pass." 



At all events deformities in plants are extremely interesting. 

 Although there can be no doubt that the investigator should above 

 all things seek the explanations of their causes, yet in the present 

 state of our science it is impossible to discover in most cases the 

 reasons for their occurrence, especially if the disturbance is purely 

 a local one. Descriptions of individual cases will probably prove 

 of value in preparing the way for future generalizations. 



Two rather interesting abnormal growths came directly under my 

 notice some time ago. One was found on a shoot of our com- 

 mon garden woodbine, Lonicera Japonica Thunb. Plate V, fig. 

 1, represents the abnormal branch. It can readily be seen that 

 the monstrosity was produced by the growing together of the term- 

 inating leaf-pair, or, according to botanical terminology, the leaves 

 had become "connate." It was evident that the activity of the 

 growing point had been suppressed, but it is a question not easily 



1 Flora, 1893. Sachs. Ueber Wachsthumsperioden und Bildungsreize. 



2 Ibid. p. 222. 



3 Ibid. p. 233. 



4 Ibid. p. 233. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



decided whether this suppression primarily caused the deformity hy 

 interfering with the normal cell development, or if the center of the 

 disturbance is to be found in the unusual leaf development which 

 thus might have destroyed the activity at the " punctual vegeta- 

 tionis." The abnormal growth had the shape of a cornucopia which 

 was perfectly hollow, and in which every trace of the terminal bud 

 was effaced. The plant was producing shoots at all available points, 

 the normal shoots haviug an appearance such as is represented in 

 Plate V, fig. 3. These were growing so rapidly in length that long 

 before the young leaves had arrived at maturity, the growing point 

 had advanced considerably beyond them. A glance at the figure 

 although little can be gleanedfrom it so far as the cause of the dis- 

 turbance is concerned, will give an idea as to its further effect. The 

 impetus derived from the external favorable conditions of the season 

 which found expression in the luxuriant growth at all parts of the 

 vine, was directed to the pair of leaves below the monstrosity, and 

 at this point a branch emerged ; the nearest bit of meristem thus be- 

 came infused with increased activity and the nourishment supplied 

 was turned aside from its original path and sent in a new direction. 

 Below the deformity the branch had, however, continued 'to grow 

 in thickness. The abnormal growth was at first evidently purely a 

 local disturbance, there being absolutely nothing unhealthy about 

 the rest of the shoot as is found so often in cases of fasciations due 

 to irregular nourishment or other causes. As already suggested, it 

 will be a difficult matter to decide upon the true and full significance 

 of a monstrosity in each particular case. A single instance as the 

 one described above, will hardly warrant the assumption that it is 

 the expression of a family trait or peculiarity found in allied spe- 

 cies. The temptation is great, no doubt, to see in this case a ten- 

 dency to connate growth to which we are accustomed in Lonicera 

 flava and L. Caprifolium cropping out as a monstrosity in L. 

 Japonica. It must be remembered, however, that it is far more usual 

 to find that plants which ordinarily bear connate or perfoliate leaves 

 (which we are accustomed to regard as later developments) will 

 develop also some leaves which are simply sessile as e. g., Uvularia 

 perfoliate^ Thus it is that in monstrosities, so far as leaves are con- 

 cerned, we expect "reversions to primitive types" rather than the 

 acquirement of new characters. 



In the article referred to above, Sachs suggests that normal activ- 

 ity can only take place if all phenomena go on with mathematical 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



exactness. 5 He forces one to realize that it is far more wonderful 

 that nature proceeds with almost absolute regularity in the develop- 

 ment of organs if we take into consideration the minuteness of the 

 vegetative point and the quite incomprehensible precision with 

 which molecules must travel each to its particular place of destina- 

 tion. He adds "a few molecules which stimulate the formation of 

 anthers might be supposed to deviate the toVt part of a millimeter to 

 the right or to the left of their prescribed path, or they might be 

 delayed two or three minutes on their journey " and produce an ab- 

 normal growth. Thus it is that in the crowded condition of the 

 floral organs at the growing point and because of the complex dif- 

 ferentiation which must take place here at a very early period, that 

 monstrosities in flowers are comparatively frequent. 6 Internal 

 hereditary tendencies, no doubt, come to the fore-ground in a greater 

 or less degree ; certainly in the most pronounced manner in such 

 cases e. g., as those cited by Sachs in the Iridacese where the inner 

 circle of stamens reappears at times as an abnormal development, 

 and thus the type of the Liliaceseis repeated. Sachs maintains that 

 we might regard the normal Iris type as a monstrosity. 7 It is quite 

 apparent, however, that such distinctions will depend entirely on the 

 accepted definition of the term monstrosity. It seems reasonable to 

 suppose that the more complex the condition of an undeveloped tis- 

 sue mass the greater the possible amount of displacement from the 

 normal position, and the less marked externally will be the influ- 

 ence of hereditary tendencies. In undeveloped foliage leaves where 

 the young parts are apt to exert less influence, and are in their turn 

 less dependent on the condition of adjacent tissues we might, per- 

 haps, expect at times to find in abnormal growths an innate ten- 

 dency of an entire family. 



I will describe in brief another and very different case of mon- 

 strosity observed at about the same time as the above. The plant 

 was the common garden hydrangea, Hydrangea hortensis L. Near 

 the end of a shoot and opposite a perfectly normal leaf, I noticed one 

 which was composed of two distinct blades. These were united by 

 the midrib from the base upward about half the length of the leaf, 

 and from there on the blades were completely separated. Plate V, 

 fig. 4, is a side view of the double leaf. It was interesting to note 



5 Ibid. p. 236. 



6 Ibid, p. 235. 



7 Ibid. p. 234. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



the pale surfaces, which form normally the lower side of the leaf, 

 faced each other, while the shiny morphological upper surface of 

 the upper blade was turned toward the sky, while in the lower 

 blade this was turned to the earth. The lower blade then, so far as 

 its morphological structure was concerned, was decidedly in a false 

 position, otherwise, at least in its contour, no irregularity was notice- 

 able, except, perhaps, that it was somewhat smaller than the oppo- 

 site normal leaf, Plate V, fig. 7. The upper blade was correct as to 

 its position, but its shape was deformed. It had two apices, the 

 midrib having divided at the point of union of the two blades. 

 Besides it was somewhat larger than the opposite normal leaf. The 

 disturbance which caused this monstrosity was also purely a local 

 one since the rest of the plant was in nowise remarkable. Evidently 

 the growing point was twice induced to divide, first in producing 

 two distinct blades, and again in the division of the midrib of the 

 upper blade. A chaos this appears without law and order, and yet 

 even in chaos there is a reason or cause for everything. It would 

 certainly be worth while to know why the under surfaces of the two 

 blades faced each other in such a way as to appear as mirrored 

 images of one another. 




288 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



May 4. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



The death, April 29th, of Geo. W. Biddle, a member, was 

 announced. 



May 11. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "On a Collection of Small Mammals from 

 Northeastern North Carolina," by Samuel N. Rhoads and Robert 

 T. Young was presented for publication. 



May 18. 



J. Cheston Morris, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Achatinidse and Helicidse from Somali- 

 land," by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



May 25. 

 Dr. C. N. Peirce in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " Vertebrate Remains from the Port Kennedy 

 Bone Deposit," by Edward D. Cope, was presented for publication. 



The Hayden Memorial Geological Committee furnished the 

 following supplementary note to its report recommending the con- 

 ferring of the award for 1897 on Prof. Karpinski : — 



Alexander Karpinski, the son of a Mining Engineer of good 

 family in Moscow, was born January 6, 1847, at Bogoslowsk, in the 

 mining district of that name in the Urals. 



After the end of his course of sciences at the Imperial Institute 

 of Mines at St. Petersburg, he was appointed in 1869 adjunct, and 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



in 1877 Professor of Geology. Since 1885 he has been the Director 

 of the Geological Survey of Russia, and since 1886 a member of 

 the Imperial Academy of Sciences at St. Petersburg. In addition 

 he is an honorary member of the Societies of Naturalists of St. 

 Petersburg, Moscow, Kiev, Kazan and Ekaterinburg ; of the 

 Mineralogical Society of St. Petersburg ; of the Geological Society 

 of Belgium and of the Belgian Society of Geology, Paleontology 

 and Hydrology. 



The official list of his more important contributions to science 

 comprises fifty-three published by the Russian Government, in the 

 Journal des Mines, and in the journals the Mineralogischer Gesell- 

 schaft, Societe Ouralienne, the Academie des Sciences, etc. 



Mr. Sager Chadwick was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



NEW SPECIES OF MOLLUSKS FROM URUGUAY. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The following descriptions are based upon material collected in 

 Uruguay by Dr. Win. H. Rush, U. S. N. The marine shells were 

 obtained at Maldonado Bay by dredging in from 3 to 6 fathoms 

 depth. A list of all the species collected may be found in the 

 " Nautilus" for May of this year, p. 6. 



Few coasts of like extent have been so little explored conchologi- 

 cally as the eastern shores of South America from Guiana to Cape 

 Horn. The limits to the southward of the Antillean mollusk fauna 

 are only of late becoming known, largely through the collections 

 made by Dr. von Ihering and others, and recorded by Dall, 1 al- 

 though the collections made at Rio Janeiro and Bahia by the 

 Wilkes Exploring Expedition, 12 and by the commission of natural- 

 ists 3 sent by the Spanish Government, have been of value in this 

 enquiry. Mr. E. A. Smith's catalogue of the mollusks of Fernando 

 Noronha, 4 and numerous records in the volumes on mollusca of the 

 Challenger Reports, further swell the list. 5 It would seem that the 

 fauna, as far south at least as the southern limit of Brazil, is prepon- 

 derantly Antillean, but with a certain number of special forms not 

 represented in the West Indies, some of them, like Strombus Goliath, 6 

 notable for their size or peculiarity. To the southward of Brazil, 

 the special or non-Antillean forms seem to predominate over the 

 Antillean, although there is of course a very gradual overlapping, 

 as would be expected from the lack of any salient coastal feature 



1 Nautilus, V, pp. 26, 42 ; VI, p. 109 ; X, p. 121. Also Proc. XJ. S. Nat. 

 Mus., XII, p. 773, pp. 219-362. 



2 Mollusca and Shells, by A. A. Gould. 



3 J. G» Hidalgo. Moluscos del Viaje al Pacifico, part 3. marine univalves. 



* Journ. Linn. Soc. Lond., Zool. XX. Consult also Smith's paper on the 

 mollusca of St. Helena and Ascension, P. Z. S., 1890, where many Antillean 

 species are recorded. 



5 There are some brief lists of merit other than those above mentioned as 

 well as many records for single species from this region, scattered through 

 the general literature of conchology. 



6 This magnificent Stromb occurs on the coast of Brazil. The writer 

 saw numerous examples in the Brazilian Fisheries Exhibit at the Columbian 

 Exposition in Chicago in 1893. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



abruptly denning regions of diverse physical features. The em- 

 bouchure of the Plate River may, as Dall has suggested, mark the 

 southern extension of typically Antillean forms, but the endemic 

 southern forms, it seems, extend both to the north and south of it. 

 The main exponent of this southern fauna is, of course, d'Orbigny, 

 whose bulky tome has been of such inestimable value to all later 

 students of South American mollusks. 



When we come to the region of Magellan Strait a good many 

 additional forms appear, and the literature is more copious. Among 

 recent papers may be mentioned Dall's report upon forms collected 

 by the " Albatross," Mabille & Rochebrune's Mollusks of the 

 Mission Scientifique du Cap Horn, Smith's " Alert " shells collected 

 by Coppinger, etc. 



Pisidium Sterkianum n. sp. Plate VI, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Shell somewhat inequilateral, ventricose, glossy, light yellowish. 

 Dorsal and ventral margins about equally arcuate ; anterior end 

 decidedly and broadly truncate ; posterior end moderately produced 

 and obliquely rounded. Beaks full but rather small, and not much 

 produced above the hinge-line. Surface very finely striated, becom- 

 ing a little more coarse near the basal margin ; interior grayish- 

 white. Right valve with two lamellar, slightly curved or sinuous, 

 parallel cardinal teeth, the laterals short, high and rather slight. 

 In left valve the laterals are lower and longer. Length 6, height 

 5, diam. 3'8 mm. 



From a creek in the " Prado," Montevideo, Uruguay. 



Many specimens were collected. One of those opened contained 

 numerous young, as is often observed in our northern Pisidia. 



P. Sterkianum is a large species, about the size of an average P. 

 Virginicum. I would identify it with Cyclas pulchella Orb. (not 

 Jenyns, = Pisidium Dorbignyi Clessin) were it not for the very 

 much smaller size (length 3 millimetres) of that form ; the young 

 P. Sterkianum of that size being much more compressed than Or- 

 bigny's figure of C. pulchella. C. pulchella was not among 

 Orbigny's South American shells acquired by the British Museum, 

 according to the official catalogue, and is not represented in the 

 Museum, as Mr. E. R. Sykes obligingly informs me. , 



It is likely that Clessin's description of "P. Argentinian" and his 

 figure la were from a specimen of this species ; but Orbigny's Cy- 

 clas Argentina, which Dr. Rush collected at the origiual locality, is 

 a, true Sphwrium, not unlike S. {Calyculina) lacustre in general ap- 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



pearanoe, but not a Calyculina. Clessin's figures 1 and 2 are poor 

 copies from the Voy. Amer. Merid., but the original figures are not 

 good. 



We have named this species in honor of Dr. V. Sterki, who has 

 undertaken the difficult task of working up the North American 

 Pisidia. 



Pisidium vile n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 17, 18, 19, 20. 



Shell rather inequilateral, quite globose, of a yellowish corneous 

 color. Surface glossy, very finely and evenly striated; anterior end 

 a little straightened or truncate ; posterior end narrower, produced 

 and rounded ; dorsal and basal margins about equally curved. 

 Beaks large and full, projecting well above the dorsal margin. In- 

 terior bluish-white. Teeth in right valve : a strong, large posterior 

 cardinal, emarginate at tip, and a low, narrow, inconspicuous upper 

 anterior cardinal ; laterals very strong and high. In the left valve 

 a low anterior and lower posterior cardinal, the pit between them 

 wide and deep ; laterals double, unusually heavy and strong. 

 Length 26, height 2 # 4, diam. 2 mm. 



From a small creek in the " Prado," Montevideo, Uruguay. 



This form differs from Cyclas pulchella Orb. (Pisidium Dorbignyi 

 Clessiu), described from Maldonado, in being smaller, shorter, with 

 much more projecting, fuller beaks. The very large size of the pos- 

 terior cardinal tooth in the right valve, and the greater reduction 

 of the anterior cardinal, are conspicuous features. A large series 

 was collected. 



It also seems to be unlike any other Pisidia of " Archiplata," 

 judging from the descriptions and figures of P. Chilense Orb., P. 

 Laurieochce and Forbesii Phil. 7 



Thracia Rushii n. sp. PI. VII, fig. 30. 



Shell thin, rather fragile, inequilateral, inequivalve, the right 

 valve swollen, left valve much less so, and with lower beak than 

 the other. White, with a thin isabella tinted cuticle toward the 

 margins. Anterior end long, broadly rounded, dorsal and ventral 

 margins subparallel ; dorsal margin behind the beaks straightly 

 sloping, short, posterior end abruptly truncated. Pallial sinus 

 moderate. Hinge very slender and delicate; ossicle lunate, with 

 the ends blunt. 



Length 29, height 20, diam. 9"5 mm. 



7 Novitates Conchologica 5 , III, p. 489, pi. 105. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



Length 20 - 5, height 13'8, diam. 7 - 5 mm. 

 Length 20, height 14 mill. 

 Maldonado Bay, Uruguay. 



T. fragilis Penn. is longer in proportion to the height, more pro- 

 longed and narrower posteriorly, and more convex. 



Seraele (Abra ?) Uruguayensis n. sp. PI. VII, figs. 27, 28, 29. 



Shell thin, inequilateral, the anterior end conspicuously longer, 

 convex, smooth except for fine, faint growth-striae. Surface slightly 

 glossy or dull, pale isabelline, becoming white toward the beaks. 

 Dorsal margins sloping abruptly each side of the beaks, the ante- 

 rior slope nearly straight, posterior slope slightly convex ; anterior 

 end broadly rounded, posterior end rather narrowly rounded below ; 

 basal margin regularly rounded, becoming a little straighter near 

 the posterior end. Beaks small, slightly projecting ; a faint ridge 

 extending from them to the junction of the posterior and basal 

 margins. Right valve with a small, erect and vertical posterior 

 cardinal, and longer, larger oblique anterior cardinal tooth, and a 

 low, slight, lamellar anterior lateral ; no posterior lateral tooth. 

 Left valve with an erect vertical cardinal tooth, no laterals. Inte- 

 rior pure white ; pallial sinus very large and deep. Length 9'5, 

 height nearly 8, diam. 4'5 mm. 



Maldonado Bay, Uruguay, in 3 to 6 fathoms. Abundant. 



Mesodesma Arechavalettoi (Ihering) Pilsbry, n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 15, 16 (about 

 two-thirds natural size). 



Shell shaped much like 31. donacea Lam., but less abruptly trun- 

 cated anteriorly, and wider posteriorly. Epidermis light buff; 

 growth-strias as in donacea. Interior with the pallial sinus very 

 deep, extending beyond the middle of the shell ; lateral teeth weak, 

 the left valve with a well developed /\-shaped cardinal retained in 

 fully adult individuals, with an accessory lamina behind it. Length 

 74, height 40, diam. 23 mm. 



Mar del Plata, Argentina, and Maldonado Bay, Uruguay ; young 

 specimens only from the last named locality. 



This is the shell mentioned as a species of Lutraria in Nautilus, 

 VI, p. 81, It is eaten in Montevideo. 



After deciding the species to be new. I submitted a specimen to 



Professor Wm. H. Dall, who has recently made a special study of 



the Mactracea, and learned from him that the shell has been named 



31. Arechavalettoi by Dr. H. von Ihering. As I have been unable 



to find such a name mentioned in the literature examined in the 

 20 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



course of a rather extensive search, I conclude it to be unpub- 

 lished. 



M. ventricosa Gray, from New Zealand, has similar weak lateral 

 teeth, but it is lower, shorter, and more swollen in the middle. 



Types are no. 70,486 coll. A. N. S. P. 



Corbula Lyoni n. sp. PI. VII, figs. 21, 22, 23. 



Shell solid and strong, nearly equivalve, very inequilateral, com- 

 pressed, oblong, the beaks near the anterior third; dorsal margin 

 straight and sloping posteriorly, convexly sloping in front; anterior 

 end wide, rounded ; posterior end narrow, obliquely truncate, ter- 

 minating below in an acute angle ; basal margin straightish in the 

 middle, rather abruptly rising near the posterior angle. Outer sur- 

 face dull whitish. Right valve slightly larger, noticeably surpass- 

 ing the left behind the beaks and along the posterior two-thirds of 

 the basal margin, where it closely overlaps the margin of the left 

 valve. The valves are about equal in convexity, and have the 

 same sculpture. A posterior area is conspicuously defined on each 

 valve by an acute keel running from the beaks to the posterior 

 angle; the keel is considerably bowed downward; above this the 

 surface is closely, sharply and subregularly costulate, the riblets 

 straight, obliquely descending in the direction of growth lines. In 

 front of the keel, the basal half of the valves, or more, has very 

 coarse and irregular concentric folds ; on the rounded anterior end 

 the folds become more regular and more numerous. The upper part 

 of each valve is free from the coarse wrinkles or folds mentioned, 

 being merely striated rather irregularly in the lines of growth. 

 Interior flesh colored, sometimes in part olive-yellow, the margins 

 of the valves of the latter color. In the right valve there is a re- 

 curved, triangular, acute tooth. 



Length 11 "75, height 6*75, diam. 3*9 mm. 



Length 12'75, height 7*9 mill. 



Maldonado Bay, Uruguay, in 3 to 6 fms. 



This species is remarkably similar in form and sculpture to Cor- 

 bula Macgillivrayi E. A. Smith, 8 described from south of New 

 Guinea, in 28 fathoms. Mr. Smith's species, however, is double the 

 size of C. Lyoni ; it has minute sculpture not seen in the latter ; 

 the ribbing of the posterior area is coarser, and the wrinkling of 



8 Keporton the ''Challenger" Lamellibranchiata, Chall. Rep. Zoology, 

 Vol. XIII, p. 30, pi. x, figs. 8-86 (1885). 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



the lower part of the valves less coarse. I know of no other Cor- 

 bula at all similar to this remarkable species. 



At Dr. Rush's suggestion, this fine species is named in honor of 

 Commander H. L. Lyon of U. S. S. " Yantic." 



Corbula Iheringiana n. sp. PI. VII, figs. 24, 25, 26. 



Shell very inequivalve and very inequilateral ; moderately con- 

 vex, somewhat Donax like in general form. Whitish under a dull, 

 light brown cuticle. Right valve much the larger and more con- 

 vex, projecting beyond the other above, the posterior three-fourths 

 of the sinuous basal margin conspicuously surpassing the left valve. 

 The upper margin is sloping and conspicuously concave posterior to 

 the beaks, the posterior end truncated ; basal margin moderately or 

 slightly arcuate; anterior end obliquely truncated in front of the 

 beaks, becoming rounded below. Surface rather irregularly wrin- 

 kled-striate, sometimes (as in the specimen figured) with some rather 

 coarse folds on the smaller valve. 



Length 9, breadth 5'5, diam. 3"8 mm. 



Maldonado Bay, Uruguay, in 3 to 6 fathoms. 



This is a species of peculiar contour, the valves of very unequal 

 size and dissimilar shape, even for this genus. I have been able to 

 find among the numerous forms described from the Antillean region, 

 none much resembling this. 



The specific name is intended to honor the only working malacol- 

 ogist in South America to-day. Naturalists may well congratulate 

 themselves that the learned and virile Director of the Museu Paul- 

 ista is adding to laurels fairly earned in the Fatherland, another 

 and American wreath, by his enlightened labors upon the South 

 American fauna. 



Crassatella (Eriphyla) Maldonadoensis n. sp. 



Smaller than E. lunulata Conrad, decidedly longer in proportion 

 to the height, the anterior dorsal slope somewhat convex instead of 

 straight, and far shorter than the posterior slope, while in E. lunu- 

 lata it is straight, concave near the beaks, and longer than the other 

 slope. The lunule is more deeply excavated, and the posterior end 

 of the shell rounded, not subangular ; beaks less elevated, less acute, 

 directed forward more than in E. lunulata. Exterior white, 

 variously suffused, maculated or interruptedly rayed with pink ; 

 having low and inconspicuous, but coarse concentric wrinkles. In- 

 terior pink in the cavity of the valves, white below the pallial line. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Teeth, hinge and interior otherwise as in E. lunulata. Length 4 - 75, 

 height 4, diam. 1*9 mm. 



Maldonado Bay, in 3 to 6 fathoms. 



Numerous specimens collected are very much alike except in pat- 

 tern of color. 



Turbonilla dispar n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 5, 6, 7. 



Shell moderately attenuated, composed of about 8 somewhat con- 

 vex whorls after the nucleus, the latter globose, partly immersed, 

 with very short low spire of less than two whorls. Sculpture of 

 spiral grooves at unequal intervals, with oblong punctures along the 

 grooves ; the upper part of spire, especially when slightly eroded, 

 marked with series of square punctures. Color light brown. 



Alt. 8-2, diam. 2'3 mm. 



Maldonado Bay, Uruguay, in 3-6 fathoms. 



Distinguished by the grooved and punctate sculpture, and the 

 globose, Naticoid nucleus. 



Turbonilla Uruguayensis n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 8, 9, 10. 



Shell of the usual slender tapering form, the greatest diameter 

 contained about 3i times in the height ; bluish-white, thin but rather 

 strong ; the sides straight, whorls a trifle convex, with slightly but 

 distinctly impressed sutures. Whorls 11, not counting the tilted 

 nucleus ; the two earlier whorls finely costulate or smooth from wear ; 

 succeeding whorls down to the end of the seventh with deep, regu- 

 lar, rather oblique ribs (about 26 in number on the seventh whorl) ; 

 the following whorls vertically and becoming more finely ribbed ; 

 last whorl with the ribs decidedly weaker or subobsolete above, base 

 convex and smooth. Apex turbinate, tilted at a right angle with 

 the axis of the shell, consisting of nearly 3 whorls. Aperture irreg- 

 ularly pyriform, acuminate above, its length contained 41 times in 

 the height of shell ; the columella subvertical, simple, its edge revo- 

 lute. Alt. 10"3, diam. 3 mm. 



Maldonado Bay, Uruguay, in 3 to 6 fathoms. 



Larger than any of the similarly sculptured species of the Gulf 

 of Mexico or east coast of South America with which I have been 

 able to make comparison. 



Ocinebra cala n. sp. 



Shell fusiform, solid and thick, of a dirty white color. Whorls 

 fully 62 or 7, convex. Sculpture: prominent longitudinal folds, 

 which are strong but rounded and wave-like, the intervals like the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



folds reversed ; in number 9 to 10 on the last whorl, and about the 

 same number on the preceding. These are crossed by rounded 

 spiral threads which are somewhat lamellose from the fine growth- 

 stria?. There are about 13 or 14 principal spirals, but in the region 

 of the periphery five or six of the intervals are occupied by minor 

 threads. Aperture one-half the total length of shell, small, loug- 

 oval ; passing below into a very narrow, parallel-sided canal nearly 

 as long as the open oval portion. Outer lip thickened and 7-toothed 

 within; siphonal fasciole conspicuous, convex, leaving a narrow 

 umbilical chink. Alt. 11 '5, diam. 5 - 8 mm. 



Maldonado Bay. 



The general appearance of this species is somewhat like Urosal- 

 pinx cinereus on a small scale. The spire is more slender, the folds 

 stronger in proportion, and the anterior canal narrow. 



TJrosalpinx Rushii n. sp. 



Shell shortly fusiform, thick and solid, white under a dull light 

 brown epidermis. Whorls about 6?, the earliest li convex and 

 smooth, the rest sculptured and convex, the last whorl convex and 

 robust, excavated below. Sculpture : numerous low longitudinal 

 folds, quite distinct and regular on the whorls of the spire, but sub- 

 obsolete on the body-whorl ; spiral cords about 43 on the last whorl, 

 every fourth cord decidedly wider and more prominent, the middle 

 one of the three intervening larger than the other two ; on the spire, 

 or in young specimens, the spirals are alternately larger and smaller. 

 The surface is roughened and minutely lamellose throughout. 

 Aperture pure white within, about three-fifths the total altitude of 

 shell, long-oval, the anterior canal contracted, narrow, considerably 

 recurved, about one-third as long as the open portion of the aperture ; 

 outer lip thick, with about 7 low denticles within ; columella 

 straight, vertical. Umbilical chink minute, the umbilical region 

 large, excavated, surrounded by a convex, prominent siphonal funi- 

 cle. Operculum very thin, with the nucleus near the base. Length 

 29, breadth 16 mm. 



Maldonado Bay, Uruguay. 



Compared with Urosalpinx cinereus the spiral sculpture is far 

 finer, longitudinal folds subobsolete on the last whorl, canal con- 

 tracted, etc. In Tritonidea tincta the sutures are not so deep, the 

 aperture channelled posteriorly and the umbilicus obsolete ; other- 

 wise the two species are considerably alike. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Halistylus circumstriatus Pilsbry. PI. VI, fig. 21. 

 Nautilus, XI, May, 1897, p. 7. 

 Maldonado Bay, iu company with H. columnus Dall. 



Ancylus Rushii Pilsbry, n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 11, 12, 13, 14. 



A small, very strongly hooked species. Aperture narrow, wider 

 anteriorly. Spire produced beyond the right margin. More elevated 

 and more curved and narrower than A. concentricus Orb. or bari- 

 lensis Moric, which are both much larger ; decidedly narrower, 

 more convex and more curved than A. obliquus, of which some 

 hundreds of examples were collected by Dr. Rush. Length 3'75, 

 breadth of aperture 1*7, height 1*5 mm. 



Creek in the " Prado," Montevideo, Uruguay. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES VI AND VII. 



Plate VI, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. Pisidium Sterkianum. 

 " " " 5, 6, 7. Turbonilla dispar. 

 " " " 8, 9, 10. Turbonilla Uruguayeusis. 

 " " " 11, 12, 13, 14. Ancylus Rushii. 



" 15, 16. Mesodesma Archavalettoi (Ihering) Pilsb. 

 about two-times natural size. 

 " " " 17, 18, 19, 20. Pisidium vile. 

 " " fig. 21. Halistylus circumstriatus. 

 Plate VII, figs. 21, 22, 23. Corbula Lyoni. 



" " 24, 25, 26. Corbula Iheriugiana. 



" " 27, 28, 29. Semele (Abra ?) Uruguayensis. 



" fig. 30. Thracia Rushii. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



EXTERNAL FEATURES OF YOUNG CRYPTOCHITON. 

 BY HAROLD HEATH. 



The genus Oryptochiton includes the most highly modified indi- 

 viduals in the order of the Polyplaeophora so far at least as exces- 

 sive growth of the mantle and the consequent diminution in size of 

 the tegmentum is concerned. In the adult no trace of the tegmen- 

 tum is visible, the articulamentum alone remaining, being com- 

 pletely hidden within the mantle. While it is held by many that this 

 represents the last stage of a process by which the mantle gradually 

 encroached upon and finally destroyed the tegmentum, Reincke 1 

 considers it to be a primitive condition from which the remainder of 

 the Ohitons have been modified. The following observations on the 

 young of Cryptoehiton stelleri, are of interest in this connection. 



In many places along the coast of California this species is of fre- 

 quent occurrence. In and about Monterey Bay they are quite com- 

 mon out beyond tide marks, where the water is from six to twelve 

 feet in depth. Sometimes they may be seen in the dark hollows and 

 crevices, slowly moving about in search of food, which consists mainly 

 if not entirely, of plants. 



On July 14, 1896, two young specimens were found on the under- 

 side of stones at the extreme low tide mark. They were placed in 

 an aquarium at the Hopkins Seaside Laboratory and were kept for 

 several weeks but they were always sluggish, remaining quiet for 

 days together in the dark corners or under stones. They did not 

 exhibit any peculiarities worthy of note. 



They were oval in outline, the broader end being anterior, and 

 were of the same size, having a length of 27 mm. and greatest width 

 of 15 mm. 



Adult Cryptoehiton are of a dark red color, sometimes obscurely 

 blotched with white. The young were unlike in coloration, one hav- 

 ing a light orange-yellow color shading to orange on the mid-dorsal 

 line; the other was of a light green also darker in the region of the 

 shell. In both the tint was lighter on the ventral surface. The 

 bunches of calcareous spines that cover the dorsal surface contain 



1 Zeit. fiir wiss. Zool. Bd. XVIII, 1868. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S97. 



some of a crimson color and these modify to a considerable extent 

 the general color. 



In adults there are from 71-80 gills. In the young there are 

 56 arranged as in the adult. Anteriorly they shade off into min- 

 ute papillae not visible to the naked eye. 



Full grown Cryptoehiton are covered on the dorsal surface with 

 groups or tufts of calcareous spines so closely crowded together that 

 the mantle is almost or entirely concealed. In the young the groups 

 are smaller and much more scattered (Plate VIII, fig. 1) ; in 

 addition are multitudes of small crimson spines on both the ventral 

 and dorsal aspects of the mantle. Reincke, and especially Blumrich 2 

 have worked out the development of the spine in several species of 

 Chiton. It forms above and outside the epithelial cell, from which 

 it develops, and as the spine increases in length, its base with its 

 underlying cell becomes pushed into the mantle and a hollow is thus 

 produced. Many spines forming these hollows occur in such posi- 

 tions as to produce a circular groove and the small area of epithelial 

 cells surrounded by this groove becomes a papilla. In young Cryp- 

 toehiton the entire mantle surface is thrown into these papillae 

 which become clearly outlined by the spines which form in the 

 channel about them (Plate VIII, fig. 4). These small spines not 

 collected into tufts are elliptical in cross section and the calcareous 

 portion imbedded in an organic basis is made up of four pieces. 

 The arrangement of these pieces is similar to that produced by lon- 

 gitudinally splitting into fourths a cone of small base and high 

 altitude. 



In the tufts of larger spines there are always to be seen a number 

 of short bright crimson ones from which others generally color- 

 less seem to radiate. These are not centrally located, but ex- 

 centrically on the side of the tuft next to the median line. A sec- 

 tion through either a large or small group shows a comparatively 

 deep depression in the mantle from which these crimson spines pro- 

 ject. In the epithelium of the depression, on the side next to the 

 mid-line, new spines form in considerable numbers. As others devel- 

 op the preceding ones are pushed toward the outside or away from 

 the median line (Plate VIII, fig. 5). They are at first colorless but 

 when about half formed show a crimson tint, which gradually dis- 

 appears by the time they are pushed out of the cavity. These spines 



2 Zeit. fiir wiss. Zool. Bd. LIT, 1891. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



are probably homologous to the small ones of the general mantle 

 surface but, unlike them, consist of but one calcareous shaft im- 

 bedded in chitinous matrix which remains after decalcification. 



Pilsbry 3 has placed the Cryptoehiton as an offshoot from the Acan- 

 thochitoid stock. In the Acanthochitidse there are always sutural 

 tufts or groups of spines corresponding in number and position to 

 the valves of the shell. In this relation it is interesting to note that 

 we have a similar arrangement in the young C. stelleri. On each 

 side of the mid-line are tufts opposite each valve that are larger 

 than any others in this region, and show a distinct regularity of 

 position (Plate VIII, fig. 3). There are multitudes of other groups, 

 but they are scattered irregularly over the mantle and do not in 

 any way correspond to the position of the valves. 



Along the median dorsal line, corresponding to the posterior por- 

 tion of each valve, is a series of eight openings. They are about 

 0.5 mm. in diameter and through them the shell is plainly visible. 

 Carefully dissecting out the valves, which are pure white and of the 

 same shape as those of older specimens, a well defined tegmentum is 

 visible (Plate VIII, fig. 2). In most cases it exhibits growth lines 

 and obscure ribbing of no definite pattern. The color is generally 

 white, sometimes slightly greenish, and is generally tinted posteriorly 

 and in some cases anteriorly with light red pigment. No tegmental 

 sense organs (aesthetes) were seen. 



On the valves of specimens almost fully grown, in a position corre- 

 sponding to the tegmentum on young shells, one may see a small 

 brown spot of about 0.5 mm. diameter which Middendorff* named 

 the nabel or umbo. This investigator figures a section where a plug 

 of some brown organic material something like chitiu projects from 

 the umbo about half way through the mantle. This is covered 

 by columnar or pavement epithelium and while it is spoken of as 

 the "navel" by Middendorff, he states that he is unable to ex- 

 plain its significance. It beyond doubt represents the opening 

 through the mantle as found in young specimens and consists of the 

 degenerate tegmentum over which the mantle has closed and par- 

 tially fused. 



Thus it is seen that no Chiton so far as known exhibits through- 

 out life a condition where the shell is wholly concealed within the 

 mantle. By its development we are justified in saying that Orypto- 



3 Manual of Conchology. Vol. XV, Part 57. 



* Mem. de PAcad. St. Petersbourg. Tome VI, 1849. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



chiton is not a primitive Chiton, but represents the last of a series 

 which has undergone successive modification, by which the tegmen- 

 tum, orginally the same size as the articulamentum, lias gradually 

 disappeared. Paleontological evidence also supports such a con- 

 clusion. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. 



Fig. 1. Anterior portion of the mantle showing the tegmentum of 



the first and second valves. This shows the accurate 



arrangement of the spines in this region. X 12. 

 Fig. 2. First and second valves showing the size of the tegmentum. 



X 6. 

 Fig. 3. Young Cryptochiton showing the tegmenta and sutural tufts. 



X 3. 

 Fig. 4. A group of spines seen from above, with the characteristic 



arrangement of the small mantle spines (represented by 



dots) about the papillae. 

 Fig. 5. A cross section through a tuft (as in fig. 4) showing the 



development of the spines. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



NOTES ON A COLLECTION OF SMALL MAMMALS FROM NORTHEASTERN 



NORTH CAROLINA. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS AND ROBERT T. YOUNG. 



The series of small mammals forming the basis of the following 

 paper was recently collected by Mr. Young, and, with the exception 

 of about fifteen specimens donated to Dr. C. Hart Merriam, 1 was 

 presented to the senior author prior to Mr. Young's departure to 

 the far west in the interests of the U. S. Department of Agriculture. 

 Since leaving Philadelphia Mr. Young has forwarded to the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences copious notes on his itinerary and the 

 faunal and floral features of the country where the collection was 

 made, besides his personal observations and a list of all the species 

 of mammalia coming under his notice. 



Owing to the hurried preparation of these notes it has been thought 

 best to entirely rewrite and rearrange them for publication in the 

 following form. Where Mr. Young's notes are given verbatim 

 they appear in quotation marks without additional reference. Quo- 

 tations from other sources will be specially referred to under their 

 several author's names. 



" The points visited were Chapanoke, Perquimans County, from 

 March 8th to 24th, (1897), and Currituck, Currituck County, from 

 March 27th to April 14th, two days being also spent at Elizabeth 

 City, Pasquotank County. Chapanoke is about eighteen miles from 

 Albemarle Sound, a small stream which drains the swamp-land in 

 this vicinity flowing thence into the Sound. Currituck is situated 

 directly on Currituck Sound, the waters of which, as well as those 

 of Albemarle Sound, are nearly fresh. The country through all 

 this section of North Carolina is mainly low and swampy, the inte- 

 rior upland soils being a fertile sandy loam, while those of the low- 

 lands along the Sounds are chiefly sand. Most of the land is culti- 

 vated, although considerable timber still remains in the swamps. 

 The swamp-lands during winter and spring are usually under from 

 one to four feet of water, but in summer they are nearly dry. The 



1 Dr. Merriam very kindly furnished a list, with annotations, of the species 

 sent to him by Mr. Young, for use in this connection. — S. N. E. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



principal timber growths of the swamps are Cypress, Gum, Oak, 

 Swamp Maple and Birch, with some Dogwood, Elm and Ash. The 

 upland timber consists mainly of two species of short-leaved Pine 

 with abundant undergrowth of Holly, Ilex glabra, though in some 

 places are extensive tracts of Juniper. Along the Sound coast 

 Holly and Laurel grow abundantly, the shores of Currituck Sound 

 being also here and there dotted with Alders. One of the chief 

 woodland plants is Apios tuberosa, and the green briar makes itself 

 obnoxious wherever one may chance to wander. In marshy spots 

 and along the ditches which have been dug for draining the fields, 

 Cane, Arundinaria tecta, occurs abundantly, and in many places in 

 the woods is a soft carpet of Hypnum moss. In this moss were 

 found several mice and one or two shrews. A few of the trees in 

 the low woods and swamps were adorned with Spanish moss (Til- 

 landsia), but this is not common. The Yellow Jasmine was also 

 abundant and blooming. Along Currituck Sound are extensive 

 marshes covered with cat-tails and a thick dense Juncus (?) 2 to 3 

 feet high. A small patch of Juncus setaceus at Chapanoke contained 

 runways in which were taken two specimens of Synaptomys. But 

 little success in trapping was had at Chapanoke, small mammals 

 apparently being quite scarce." 



The region covered by Mr. Young's researches is of much faunal 

 interest, being the borderland of distribution between such distinc- 

 tively Carolinian forms as Peithrodontomys humilis, Peromyscus 

 aureolus and gossypinus and Sorex longirostris, and the wider rang- 

 ing northern species Peromyscus leucopus, Microtus pennsylvanicus 

 and Sorex personatus. The faunal and floral conditions on Albe- 

 marle Sound are further complicated by the presence of the Great 

 Dismal Swamp and its confluents, whose peculiar environment is a 

 strange combination of boreal and austral in a territory whose nor- 

 mal climate is decidedly austral. The proximity of this region to 

 the sea also has a decided effect in equalizing the relative tempera- 

 ture and average humidity of summer and winter as compared with 

 the interior uplands in this latitude. 



Dr. Merriam has recently described a Synaptomys, a Blarina and 

 a Sorex all taken by Dr. A. K. Fisher in Dismal Swamp, and, while 

 it is doubtful if all of these will prove specifically distinct from 

 their nearest northern or southern affines, there is undoubtedly a 

 most marked contrast between these swamp dwellers and their 

 nearby associates of the uplands. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



The following is a list of the species seen or ohtained by Mr. 

 Young, with annotations on each. 



1. Lepus sp?. Hare. 



" Only a few individuals of this genus were noted. They were 

 probably sylvaticus, but as none were secured this is uncertain. L. 

 palustris may also occur." 



2. Synaptomys cooperi stonei (Rhoads). Carolinian Bog Vole. 

 Synaptomys helaletes Merriam. Proc. Biol. Soc. Washn., 1896, p. 59. 



" Two specimens, male and female, the latter containing four well 

 advanced embryos, were taken in a patch of Juncus setaceus in a 

 damp piece of open ground bordering pine woods at Chapanoke, 

 March 11, 1897. The runways were filled with cut stems of the 

 Jvncus, on which they had evidently been feeding." 



The identification of these Synaptomys has necessitated a careful 

 examination of a series of about forty accurately measured and well 

 preserved skins and skulls of cooperi from eastern North America 

 from New Brunswick to Rflan Mountain, North Carolina, a few of 

 which are in the collection of the American Museum of Natural 

 History, New York, but the majority were collected by the senior 

 author in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. By means of this excep- 

 tional series from the debatable region lying between the northern 

 and southern extremes of the eastern distribution of cooperi, to- 

 gether with the data presented by Dr. Merriam's " Revision " of 

 the genus (I.e.), the following conclusions have been reached : — 



1. The type locality of Synaptomys cooperi, according to the 

 known history of the original (type) specimen and the published 

 consensus of recent naturalists, may be defined as lying within a 

 radius of fifty miles of Hoboken, New Jersey, either in northern 

 New Jersey, southern New York or eastern Connecticut. 



2. Synaptomys cooperi Baird, is represented by the following spe- 

 cies and subspecies : — 



a. Cooper's Bog Vole. Synaptomys cooperi Baird ; Mam. N. 

 Amer., 1857, pp. 556-558. 



Type locality unknown ; probably northern New Jersey or south- 

 ern New York. 



Geographic distribution. — Lower Alleghenian fauna, 2 intergrad- 

 ing southwardly into subspecies stonei, northwardly into subspecies 



2 Dr. J. A. Allen's nomenclature of faunal .areas is here used. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



fatuus, and westwardly into subspecies gossi. 



Gen*eral characters. — Similar in colors and appearance to Micro- 

 tis pennsylvanicus, but smaller and with a very short bicolor tail. 

 Contrasted with S. c. stonci the body measurements are somewhat 

 less, but in the same proportions. The skull of cooperi, however, is 

 relatively smaller than in stonei and the dentition much weaker. 

 The relative proportions of the skull in cooperi are about the same 

 as in fatuus, but the rostrum and mandibles of stonei and gossi are 

 relatively much broader and more massive. 



Measurements. — Average of 3 old adult females and 2 old adult 

 males from Sussex County, New Jersey and Monroe and Cambria 

 Counties, Pennsylvania ; total length 118 millimeters; tail verte- 

 brae 16.5 ; hind foot 19.5. Skulls of 2 adult males, Sussex County, 

 New Jersey and Monroe County, Pennsylvania; greatest length 

 26.5 ; greatest breadth 16. 



b. Canadian Bog Vole. Synaptomys cooperi fatuus (Bangs) ; 

 Proc. Biol. Soc. Washn., 1896, pp. 47, 48. 



Type locality. — Lake Edward, Quebec. 



Geographic distribution. — Lower east Canadian and upper Alle- 

 gheuian faunas. 



General characters. — As in cooperi. Skull much smaller and 

 dentition relatively weaker. Under parts washed with buff on 

 belly (not clear gray or plumbeous-gray as in cooperi). Tail nearly 

 unicolor. 



Measurements. — Average of 2 adults from type locality (fide 

 Bangs) ; total length 124 m. m. ; tail vertebra? 18; hind foot 18.7. 

 Skulls of 2 adult males from type locality (fide Bangs) ; greatest 

 length 25 ; greatest breadth 15.6. 



c. Carolinian Bog Vole. Synaptomys cooperi stonei (Rhoads) ; 

 Amer. Nat., 1893, pp. 53, 54. 



Type locality. — Mays Landing, Atlantic County, New Jersey. 



Geographic distribution. — Sphagnum bogs of the Carolinian 

 fauna. 



General characters. — Similar to cooperi, but somewhat larger with 

 much larger and more massive skull and broader rostrum and in- 

 cisors. Colors darker, especially on the underside, which is more 

 plumbeous or slaty (less hoary) than in cooperi? 



3 The 2 specimens taken at Chapanoke, however, are much lighter than 

 average cooperi. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Measurements. — Average of nine adults, 4 females and 5 males, 

 from the following localities: New Jersey, Cumberland Counfy, 3 ; 

 Cape May County, 1 ; Atlantic County, 3 ; North Carolina, Per- 

 quimans County, 2 ; total length 125 m. m. ; tail vertebrae 20 ; hind 

 foot 20. Skulls of two adult males from southern New Jersey ; greatest 

 length 27.8 ; greatest breadth 17.7. A large adult male skull from 

 Chapanoke, North Carolina, is 28.5 millimeters long by 18 broad, 

 and represents the extreme maximum size of the Dismal Swamp 

 form which Dr. Merriam named (J. c.) helaletes. 



d. Great Plains Bog Vole. Synaptomys cooperi gossi (Merriam). 

 Proa' Biol. Soc. Washn., 1896, p. 60. 



Type locality. — Neosho Falls, Kansas. 



Geographic distribution. — Great Plains fauna. 



General characters* — Similar to cooperi but larger, with relatively 

 small audital bullne. Dentition heavy, as in stonei. Color above, 

 decidedly shaded with reddish-brown. 



Measurements. — Average of 6 specimens from type locality ; total 

 length 120 m. m. ; tail vertebras 20.5 ; hind foot 19. Skull measure- 

 ments, not available. 



3. Microtus pennsylvanicus nigrans Rhoads, subsp. no v. Albemarle Meadow 

 Vole. 



Type, No. 3,494 ad. $ , Col. of S. N. Rhoads. Collected by R. 

 T. Young at Currituck, Currituck County, North Carolina, April 

 7, 1897. 



General characters. — Similar to Microtus pennsylvanicus of east- 

 ern Pennsylvania and New Jersey, but larger and darker, with a 

 nearly unicolor tail and distinctly sulcate upper incisors in the 

 majority of adult skulls. 



Colors. — Above dark brownish slate-black, with a well defined 

 darker median dorsal area of slaty-black, but sparingly mixed with 

 the dark brown of sides. Dark brown of sides extending around 

 and over lower parts from lips to vent, leaving no line or area of 

 demarcation between upper and lower body colors as in pennsylva- 

 nicus, and in the series of 9 specimens examined, showing little trace 

 of the ashy or hoary cast of underparts so conspicuous in 90 per 

 cent, of a large series from eastern Pennsylvania, northward. Cra- 

 nial characters as in pennsylvanicus. 



4 These characters and measurements are chiefly summarized from Dr. Mer- 

 iram's " Revision " of the genus. I personally examined all the Goss specimens 

 and can confirm the color diagnosis. — S. N. R. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Measurements. — (of type) Total length 175 ra. m. ; tail vertebraa 50 : 

 hindToot 23 ; ear, from crown 9. Average of 4 adults from Currituck : 

 total length 176 ; tail vertebra? 50 ; hind foot 23 ; ear 8. Average of 4 

 adults from Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania (type locality) : 

 total length 165 ; tail vertebrae 44 ; hind foot 21 ; ear 9. Skull (of 

 type): total length 29; greatest breadth 16.2; length of mandible 

 18. ' 



A very large series, comprising nearly 500 specimens of pennsyl- 

 vanicus from the eastern States and Canada, makes it possible to 

 define accurately the variations in M. pennsylvanicus. A study of 

 this material shows clearly a diminution in size and intensity of 

 coloration as we go northward from the southern border of its range. 

 Typical pennsylvanicus from Philadelphia County is exactly inter- 

 mediate between the large meadow mice of eastern North Carolina 

 and the -small ones of Quebec and the lower Hudson Bay regions. 

 The lightest colored eastern individuals come from the sea coasts of 

 New England and represent an imperfectly differentiated race ap- 

 proaching M. breweri, easily distinguishable from the darker animal 

 of the interior uplands of New England and the maritime coasts of 

 New Jersey. It is possible that the Albemarle Vole, like its asso- 

 ciates, Sorex fisheri and Blarina telmalestes, will be found to have 

 no connectant habitat with its northern representative, M. pennsylva- 

 nicus, but prove to be an insulated species. 5 So far as I can dis- 

 cover, the type locality of M. p. nirjrans is much farther south than 

 any previously recorded habitat of ]}ennsylvanicus on the Atlantic 

 seaboard. 



Thirteen specimens, nine adult, were preserved. They were all 

 taken at Currituck where they are abundant, being " obtained in 

 the ./uncus and grass of marshy fields as well as in marshy patches 

 of ground where mint and other weeds, on which they fed, were 

 abundant." 



4. Microtus pinetorum (LeC). Pine-woods Vole. 



A series of seventeen skins of this species from Currituck, which 

 we may consider nearly typical of LeConte's animal, when compared 

 with like series from more northern and mountainous localities in 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey, do not indicate, either in color or 



5 A specimen of this race from near the York Eiver in Gloucester County, 

 Virginia, taken by Mr. Khoads since the above was written, indicates a con- 

 tinous distribution along the coast. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



measurements, that the so-called scalopsoides of Bachman is even a 

 tenable subspecies. 



South Carolina and Georgia specimens, however, may show 

 greater differences. Owing to the highly fossorial habits of this 

 vole, spending like a mole nearly its whole life underground, it is 

 not subjected to the ordinary vicissitudes of environment which 

 have caused subspecific variations in other members of its family. 



" Common at Currituck, where they were obtained in runways in 

 the escarpment along shore and in the Juncas in wet woods along 

 the shore." 

 5. Fiber zibethicus (L.). Muskrat. 



Concerning the only specimens of this species, sent to him from 

 Currituck, Dr. Merriam informs me by letter : " The muskrat has 

 the small teeth of the ordinary zibethicus, thus differing from the 

 Dismal Swamp form. 



"Muskrats were reported as fairly common at Chapanoke. None 

 were taken there, but at Currituck they were numerous in the 

 marshes, where two specimens were secured." 



6 Peromyscus leucopus (Raf.). Carolinian Deer Mouse. 



Twelve skins from Chapanoke and ten from Currituck represent 

 this species. They do not differ in color and measurements from a 

 large series taken at the same time in southern New Jersey, which 

 are considered typical of Rafmesque's species. 



" The commonest species met with, being taken in all kinds of sit- 

 uations." 



7. Peromyscus gossypinus (LeC). Northern Cotton Mouse. 



Two adult specimens from Currituck are the most northern record 

 of this species known to us. The strong distinctions, both cranial 

 and external, separating this species from its small congener and 

 associate leucopus at Currituck, are apparent at a glance. The hab- 

 itat of the two overlaps at this point precisely as it was found to do 

 by the senior author in the bottom lands of western Tennessee, 

 where the mississippiensis form of gossypinus occurs. 



The specimens were " obtained in a patch of Juncus in a wet 

 piece of woods on Currituck Sound." 



8. Peromyscus aureolus (Aud. & Bach.). Golden Deer Mouse. 



Four specimens from Chapanoke are in the collection. 



9. Reithrodontomys humulis (Aud. & Bach.). Eastern Harvest Mouse. 



Sixteen skins, two only of which were taken at Chapanoke, are in 



the Rhoads' collection. "Several specimens were taken at both 

 21 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Chapanoke and Currituck. At the latter place the conditions were 

 more favorable and they were much more common. Here they 

 were trapped in marshy meadows grown up with Juncus and grass. 

 Such places are scarce at Chapanoke, and there they were also 

 obtained in cultivated fields and in patches of Hypnuin in the pine 

 woods." 



10. Mus musculus (L.). House Mouse. 



Two skulls and one skin of this foreigner are in the collection. 

 No label is attached to the skin, but from the numbers on the skulls 

 they evidently were taken at Chapanoke. 



11. Sciurus carolinensis Gniel. Carolinian Gray Squirrel. 



No specimens taken. " Only one observed at Currituck, but re- 

 ported to be fairly common in all localities." 



12. Putorius vison lutreocephalus (Harl.). Carolinian Mink. 



" Several skins seen, which had been taken at Chapanoke, but 

 no specimens obtained either there or at Currituck. They were re- 

 ported as common in suitable localities at each place. They are 

 considered very destructive to poultry." 



13. Procyon lotor (L.). Raccoon. 



" Reported to be fairly common. One or two skins were seen, 

 taken near Chapanoke." 



14. Blarina telmalestes Merr. Dismal Swamp Mole Shrew. 



Three skins with skulls, two from Chapanoke and one from Cur- 

 rituck, represent this animal. The Currituck specimen is stated 

 to have been " obtained in a patch of Juncus in a wet piece of woods 

 near the Sound." The Chapanoke pair were taken in " moss in 

 pine woods," according to attached labels. The latter, in measure- 

 ments and skull characters, agree essentially with brevicauda of 

 Pennsylvania, showing no tendency to the much smaller size of 

 carolinensis, two specimens of which were obtained in the same local- 

 ity (Chapanoke) and in a very similar kind of place. The Curri- 

 tuck specimen corresponds very closely to Dr. Merriam's diagnosis 

 of telmalestes, having a larger foot and light colored teeth. 



If we assume that telmalestes is an isolated swamp species uncon- 

 nected with the habitat of brevicauda (an opinion which we are in- 

 clined to think a correct one), the existence of a large Blarina, like 

 brevicauda, and the small species (or subspecies?) carolinensis at 

 Chapanoke in the same kind of woods, is somewhat puzzling when 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



we consider that brevicauda and carolinensis have been pretty con- 

 clusively proved to intergrade in western North Carolina and Ten- 

 nessee. For the present, however, it is more logical to assume that 

 the two so-called ' brevictmda' specimens from Chapanoke are im- 

 mature telmalestes, that telmalestes does wander beyond the confines 

 of swamps and that it in no case intergrades with its neighbor caro- 

 linensis nor ever overlaps the habitat of brevicauda, from which it 

 should, therefore, be considered a distinct species. 6 



15. Blarina brevicauda carolinensis (Bachm.). Carolina Mole Shrew. 



The difference in size between the small adult mole shrew from 

 Chapanoke in the Rkoads' collection and the large specimens already 

 referred to under telmalestes, is so great as to allow no question of 

 a possible intergradation. The skull of the former barely measures 

 19 mm. in total length, while the latter average nearly 23 mm. 

 The hind foot of the former is 11 mm. long, that of the latter 14 

 mm. 



16. Sorex fisheri Merr. Fisher's Shrew. 



" One specimen was secured in a runway in pine woods at Chap- 

 anoke." The color and measurements of this specimen, which is 

 just reaching maturity, are intermediate between those given re- 

 spectively for longirostris and fisheri in Dr. Merriam's " Revision " 

 of the genus. The two may eventually be found to intergrade on 

 the outskirts of Dismal Swamp. 



SUPPLEMENTARY LIST OF SPECIES NOT OBSERVED BY MR. YOUNG 

 BUT REPORTED TO HIM BY OTHERS. 



1. Didelphis marsupialis virginiana (Kerr). Virginia Opossum. 



" Said to be common at both Chapanoke and Currituck." 



2. Dorcelaphus americanus (Erxl.) Virginia Deer. 



"Said to be not uncommon in the wild regions about Chapanoke." 



3. Sciuropterus volans (L.). Carolinian Flying Squirrel. 



" Reported at Chapanoke." 



4. Ursus americanus Pallas. American Black Bear. 



" Not rare in the wilder sections of country near Chapanoke." 



6 A specimen of typical brevicauda, recently taken in eastern Gloucester 

 County, Virginia, indicates not only that telmalestes is connected with the north- 

 ern form but that carolinensis is a distinct species whose habitat overlaps 

 brevicauda in these regions. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



5. Lutra hudsonica Lacep. North American Otter. 



" A few reported from the swamps around Chapanoke." 



6. Putorius noveboracensis Emmons. Carolinian Weasel. 



" Reported at Currituck. Probably occurs sparingly throughout 

 the Albemarle region." 



7. Lynx ruffas (Gueld.). Eastern Bay Lynx. 



" Rare, but of general distribution." 




1897.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 313 



June 1. 

 Mr. Theodore D. Rand in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



June 8. 

 Charles Schaeffer, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled " Cyprrea lynx Deformed by Disease," by 

 John Ford was presented for publication. 



June 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " A Revision of the West American Flying Squirrels," by 

 Samuel N. Rhoads. 



"New and Little-known North American Bees." by T. D. A. 

 Cockerell. 



June 22. 



The Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were ordered to be printed in 

 the Journal of the Academy : — 



" Certain Aboriginal Mounds of the Georgia Coast," by Clarence 

 B. Moore. 



" Inhumation and Incineration in Europe," by the Marquis de 

 Nadiallac. 



June 29. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Ten persons present. 



Alonzo H. Stewart, M. D. and Charles E. De M. Sajous, M. D. 

 were elected members. 



Prof. A. Karpinski was elected a Correspondent. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



A REVISION OF THE WEST AMERICAN FLYING SQUIRRELS. 

 BY BAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



The recent acquisition of four fine specimens of an apparently 

 undescribed Flying Squirrel from the San Bernardino Mountains, 

 California, having made it necessary to go pretty fully into the 

 relationships and nomenclature of the described forms inhabiting the 

 Rocky Mountain and Coast Ranges of America, the author has 

 secured the loan of most of the available specimens of these in our 

 eastern museums and made them the basis of the following study. 

 Before passing to their consideration I would gratefully acknowl- 

 edge the loan, through Mr. F. W. True, of the study series of west- 

 ern Sciuropterus from the Smithsonian Institution, also the permis- 

 sion to examine specimens in the American Museum of Natural 

 History, and the loan of a valuable series of skins and skulls from 

 British Columbia from the collections of Messrs. E. A. and 0. 

 Bangs, through the courtesy of my friend, Mr. Outram Bangs. 



Besides these and a series of about forty specimens in my private 

 collection, I should specially refer to those in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, including as they do 

 the type of Sciuropterus oregonensis (Bachman) and the supposed 

 type of Sciuropterus alpinus of Audubon and Bachman, collected by 

 J. K. Townsend. 



Previous to Dr. J. A. Allen's Monograph of the Sciuridce there 

 were, variously recognized, four species or varieties of American 

 Flying Squirrel : a, the small southern Sciuropterus volans (Lin- 

 na?us) (=S. volucella of authors) forming the type of its genus ; b, 

 the large S. sabrh\us (Shaw) (=$. hudsonius (Gmel.)) of the Hudson 

 Bay Regions ; c, the large S. alpinus (Richardson) of the eastern 

 slope of the Rocky Mountains ; and d, the smaller S. oregonensis 

 (Bachman) of the Pacific Coast lowlands near the mouth of the 

 Columbia River. 



In 1877 Dr. Allen 1 united these under one species " Sciuroj)terus 

 volucella," making the smaller southeastern animal the type and 

 recognizing " S. hudsonius " as a northern transcontinental subspe- 



1 Monog. N. Amer. Rod.. 1877, p. 655. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



cies or " variety " of volucella, with alpinus and oregonensis as its 

 synonyms. Until 1896, Dr. Allen's ruling, at least in reference to 

 the inseparability of the northern and southern forms of our eastern 

 Flying Squirrels as distinct species, was generally accepted. 



In that year Mr. Outram Bangs, having made a study of a much 

 better series of specimens than was accessible to Dr. Allen, showed 2 

 that the habitats of sabrinus and volans overlapped, the two forms 

 not intergrading over this common territory. So far as my study 

 of the western forms has made it necessary to consult the eastern 

 species, the verdict of Mr. Bangs appears fully sustained, and the 

 cranial and external characters of the Sciurop>teri inhabiting our 

 country from the Rocky Mountains westward to the Pacific seem to 

 equally justify their specific separation from any of our eastern 

 species. 



The first name specifically given by a naturalist to a western Fly- 

 ing Squirrel was imposed by Richardson in the London Zoological 

 Journal of 1828, pages 519, 520. In this place he describes a 

 squirrel taken on the second Franklin Expedition of 1825-26 as 

 follows : — 



" 12. Pteromys alpinus [here follows Latin description of charac- 

 ters], Rocky Mountain Flying Squirrel; yellowish-brown above; 

 tail flat, longer than the body, blackish-gray, flying membrane with 

 a straight border. Size greater than that of the Siberian Flying 

 Squirrel. Hab[itat]. — The valleys of the Rocky Mountains." 



In 1829 3 he more fully described the animal, comparing it with 

 Sduropterus sabrinus and reducing it to a variety of that species. 

 From this article we are enabled to fix definitely the type locality 

 of alpinus to be the headwaters of the " Elk" [—Athabasca] and 

 " South Branch of the Mackenzie " [=Peace] Rivers, on the east- 

 ern drainage of the main range of the Rocky Mountains in north- 

 western Alberta and east central British Columbia. From Rich- 

 ardson's account of the itinerary and labors of Drummond, who 

 collected the type specimens, the one first mentioned was probably 

 taken by Drummond when he returned after his fifty mile exploration 

 of the Columbia Portage Road " to the head of Elk River, on which 

 he passed the winter [1825-'26] making collections." 4 



It has been found impossible to secure any good specimens of 



2 Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., 1896, pp. 162-167. 



3 Faun. Bor. Amer., 1829, pp. 195, 196. 



4 Ibid, Introd., pp. xvi, xvii. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Sciuropterus from nearer the type locality of alpinus than Stuart 

 Lake, B. C, lying just west of the Pacific- Arctic watershed sepa- 

 rating the affluents of the Peace River and the Frazer River, ahout 

 150 miles west of the type locality, of the "Elk River" specimen 

 and 100 miles west of the head of the Smoky River branch of the 

 Peace River, 5 all about at the same latitude of 54°. An excellently 

 preserved skin of an adult male Sciuropterus from Stuart Lake with 

 separated skull belonging thereto, and careful flesh measurements 

 and data made by Mr. W. E. Traill, sent by him to the Provincial 

 Museum of Victoria, B. C, and donated to the writer by Mr. John 

 Fannin, is considered in this study as typical of the essential spe- 

 cific characters of Richardson's alpinus. From its faunal position, 

 however, in a region less elevated and more humid than that which 

 forms the type locality of alpinus, it is, as would be expected, darker 

 colored. Richardson's description in the Fauna Boreali Americana, 

 as well as Audubon and Bachman's plate of alpinus, indicate an 

 animal lighter colored (yellowish-brown above) than the reddish- 

 brown sabrinus, conditions which our knowledge of other mammals 

 from the more arid eastern slopes of the Rocky Mountains would 

 lead us to expect. The Stuart Lake specimen, though too dark to 

 answer for a type of the color characters of alpinus is, nevertheless, 

 in size and proportions as contrasted with sabrinus, specifically the 

 same as alpinus, and will be so considered in the absence of speci- 

 mens from nearer the type locality of that species. 



Confirming these premises, but in themselves so lacking the re- 

 quirements of modern research as to be of little value, are two speci- 

 mens of probably typical alpinus from Fort Liard, in the northeast- 

 ern corner of British Columbia. These are labelled under numbers 

 5,655, 5,656 of the catalogue of the Smithsonian Institution, and 

 were collected by W. L. Hardisty and Bernard R. Ross. One of 

 them is a badly mounted specimen and the other a flat skin lacking 

 all but the basal portion of tail. Their skulls are missing, the up- 

 per incisors of No. 5,656 alone being present. The pelage of both 

 is short and rather harsh, evidently that of summer. The mounted 

 specimen has undoubtedly been faded by exposure to light. It is a 

 duller, more slaty wood-brown than Canadian sabrinus above and 

 differs from the Stuart Lake specimen in having scarcely any trace 



5 Prof. J. Maconn, of the Geological Survey of Canada, in a recent letter 

 states that Drumrnond did not collect in British Columbia, and that his Peace 

 River rambles were confined to Smoky Kiver. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



of sooty on tail, feet and head, and in the whiteness of the hair of 

 nnderparts. The skin specimen, on the other hand, is between rus- 

 set and wood-brown above, the underside being washed with dirty 

 cream-buff and light Isabella color. The latter specimen has the 

 appearance of being once immersed in alcohol. The great length of 

 the hind foot (42 mm., when dry) and the general lightness of 

 underpartsare the only reliable characters in these specimens which 

 go to justify the specific separation of sabrinus and alpinus, and 

 their distinction from fuliginosus. 



In the third volume of their Quadrupeds of North America, 

 Audubon and Bachman undertook to redefine the alpinus of Rich- 

 ardson and appropriate the name to themselves. 8 They describe 

 and figure it from a specimen which we may infer from their ac- 

 count was taken by Townsend when crossing the Rocky Mountains 

 in southeastern Idaho. 7 Professor Baird, in commenting on this 

 specimen, remarks 8 : " There is a Flying Squirrel in the museum of 

 the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences labelled ' Pteromys 

 alpinus, Columbia River, Dr. Townsend,' but I am unable to say 

 whether it is really the type of Bachman's description or not. The 

 locality is probably the Rocky Mountains, as described by Bach- 

 man, nearly all of Townsend's specimens having been labelled 

 Columbia River, whether collected there or on the overland march 

 from St. Louis." With this specimen in hand I find it difficult to 

 regard it as the type of Audubon and Bachman's description and 

 plate of alpinus. In both color and measurements it differs con- 

 siderably from their diagnosis. 



The second western Flying Squirrel to receive a new specific 

 name was the " Pteromys oregouensis " of Bachman described in 1839 

 in the Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 from a specimen taken by J. K. Townsend in the " pine woods of 

 the Columbia River near the sea." This type specimen yet exists 

 in good condition in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. It remains as originally mounted in the 

 flight position, with membranes widely extended, the limbs at right 

 angles to the body and the skull within the skin, apparently un- 

 broken. Though somewhat faded by exposure to the light it closely 



6 Quad. N. Amer., 1854, pp, 206-208. 



7 They made the mistake of thinking (1. c, p. 207) that Townsend crossed 

 the mountains by the same route as Drummond, and that the specimens of 

 each were topotypes ! 



s Mam. N. Amer., 1858, p. 2S9. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



matches specimens of the same race from nearby localities on the 

 Pacific Coast of British Columbia and Washington. The original 

 description of Bachman, as well as the plate of Audubon and Bach- 

 man, are very fairly diagnostic of oregonensis except the part re- 

 lating to the size and shape of the ears and of the flying membrane, 

 in which latter character of Sciuropterus both Bachman and Rich- 

 ardson were misled by the distorted condition of dried specimens in 

 a bad state of preservation and wholly lacking reliable measure- 

 ments. 



To my knowledge no other names than those already treated of 

 have been proposed for the Sciuropteri coming within the scope of 

 this paper. In the following synopsis I have recognized alpinus as 

 the type of a western group, distinct from the eastern species and 

 separable into four subspecies, alpinus of the eastern Rocky Mount- 

 ain districts, oregonensis of the Pacific Coast lowlands, fidiginosus 

 of the Cascade Mountains, and californicus of the southern Sierra 

 Nevada range. 



I have been unable to examine any specimens from large areas 

 undoubtedly tenanted by this genus, the most noticeable Jack being 

 from the United States east of the Cascade Range and the more 

 northerly coasts of Alaska. It is probable that the form recorded 

 from Cook's Inlet, Alaska, by Turner, 9 will prove separable from 

 oregonensis, as also the form represented by a badly preserved spec- 

 imen from Fort Crook, Shasta County, California, which indicates a 

 smaller race than californicus paler than oregonensis. 10 There is lit- 

 tle doubt also that the southern Rocky Mountains will furnish 

 another race separable from typical alpinus and its more western 

 allies. 



No sexual color differences in our Flying Squirrels are apparent. 

 If any difference in size, the series of skulls and skins show that the 

 largest specimens are females, and these outnumber the males nearly 

 two to one. 



The color differences between winter arid summer pelage in the 

 a! 'pi n ns group are not great, after the molt has been fully effected. 

 It consists in the shorter, coarser, duller haired aspect of the sum- 

 mer coat as compared with that of winter and in the shortening of 

 the colored tips and consequent darkening of pelage due to the ex- 

 posure of the plumbeous bases of hairs. 



9 Cont. Nat. Bist. Alas., 1886, p. 204. 



10 Cooper, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., 1N(38, p. 4, records a Flying Squirrel from 

 Mendocino Co., Cal., which represents the southern extreme of oregonensis. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



1. Sciuropterus alpinus (Richciruson). Rocky Mountain Flying Squirrel. 



1828. Pteromys alpinus Richardson, Zool. Jour., (Lond.), Ill, p. 519. 



1829. Pteromys sabrifius var. 3. alpinus Richardson, Faun. Bor. Amer., I, 

 p. 195. 



1854. Pteromys, alpinus Audubon & Bachman, Quad. N. Amer., Ill, p. 206. 

 1877. Sciuropterus volucella, var. hudsonius Allen, Monog. N. Amer. Rod., p. 

 655. 



1881. Sciuropterus volucella, a alpinus Trouessart, Cat. des Mam., p. 67. 



Type locality. — Rocky Mountains, at the sources of the Athabasca 

 River (" Committee's Punch Bowl ") and the Peace River (Smoky 

 River ?), Alberta. 



Geographic distribution. — Main range of the Rocky Mountains 

 between latitudes 40° and 60° (Uintah Mountains to Fort Liard 11 ). 

 Northern and southern limits unknown. 



Habitat. — Dense pine forests of the mountains. 



General characters. — Size, largest of the American Flying Squir- 

 rels, with relatively longer tail, larger, narrower skull, flatter brain 

 case, longer rostrum and nasal bones, shorter postorbital processes, 

 and more massive dental armature than sabrinus. 12 Colors above 

 and below lighter (grayer below, more tawny above), lacking the 

 tawny of underparts and rusty or cinnamon shades of upper parts 

 of sabrinus. 



Color. 13 — (Probably based on Drummond's winter specimens 

 " from the head of Elk River "). " The end of the nose is hair- 

 brown and the fur about the mouth and on the sides of the nose has 

 a dark, smoke-gray color. * * * * The surface of the fur on 

 the back has a yellowish-brown color, without any tendency to the 

 more red hue of the back of Pt. sabrinus. The fur of the throat 

 and belly is a grayish-white, without any tinge of buff color ; the 

 tail has a flat, oblong, oval form, and has a blackish-brown color 

 above, and is merely paler beneath." 



Dimensions. — Of Richardson's type (probably from dry skin) ; 

 total length 336 millimeters; tail vertebras 133 ; hind foot 38. Of 

 Audubon and Bachman's type of alpinus (dry, stretched skin ?) ; 

 total length 342 ; tail vertebra? 133; hind foot 38. Measurements 

 taken by collector from carcass of an adult male, No. 345, Coll. of 



11 Assuming the specimens recorded by Dr. Allen (1. c.) to be typical. 



12 For characters of sabrinus compare Bangs, Proc. Biol.Soc. Wash., 1896, 

 p. 162. " 



13 The color characters of this diagnosis are based wholly on Richardson's 

 description of the types in Fauna Boreali Americana. Audubon and Bach- 

 man's description and plate of alpinus appear to confirm these in every par- 

 ticular. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



S. N. Rhoads, from Stuart Lake, B. C. ; total length 309 ; tail ver- 

 tebrae 143 ; hind foot 40. 



Average of seven adults of sabrinus ( jWeBangs, 1. c.) ; total length 

 278.6 ; tail vertebras 130.4 ; hind foot 37.6. Skull measurements of 

 the Stuart Lake specimen : occipito-nasal length 41.5 ; greatest 

 breadth 25 14 ; length of nasals 12.5 ; greatest length of mandible 23. 

 Skull measurements of an adult male sabrinus from Maine : occipito- 

 nasal length 38 ; greatest breadth 23; length of nasals 11 ; greatest 

 length of mandible 22. 



General remarks. — Making due allowance for the measurements 

 given by Richardson, Audubon and Bachman of their types of al- 

 pinus, and comparing these with the accurate field measurements 

 and complete skulls of the specimens of the alpinus group now avail- 

 able from numerous localities in the Rocky and Cascade Mountain 

 regions, it seems just to consider all the mountain forms of alpinus 

 as specifically distinct from sabrinus both in greater size and in the 

 relative proportions of the skull and extremities. The lowland 

 forms of alpinus closely agree in cranial characters with the type, 

 but in their diminished size approach sabrinus. 



A fine winter skin with skull and collector's measurements, from 

 Camp Davidson, on the Yukon River, near the eastern boundary of 

 Alaska, is larger than any other specimen of American Seiurop- 

 terus I have handled. Its measurements are given in the table. Its 

 color is somewhat brighter and redder than any Cascade specimens 

 of fuliginosus taken near the 49th parallel. Though not so dark as 

 the Stuart Lake specimen, its characters point it out to be the large 

 northern extreme in size of the alpinus group with color characters 

 intermediate between alpinus and fuliginosus, as its faunal position 

 would lead us to expect. The drab-gray shade of underparts, 

 smoke-gray of sides of head and blackish-slate of eyelids and ears, 

 ally it more closely to fuliginosus. 



Specimens examined. — British Columbia, Fort Liard,2 : Idaho, 3. 15 



14 This skull is relatively wider than the average of alpinus from other parts 

 of British Columbia, in this respect not being so typical of the narrow cranial 

 character of alpinus as contrasted with sabrinus. 



15 While the foregoing was in type, two winter skins, with skulls and meas- 

 urements, of the Rocky Mountain flying squirrel from Idaho County, Idaho, 

 were forwarded to me by Mr. O. Bangs. They are of great interest, their cran- 

 ial characters proving the specific difference between alpinus and sabrinus as al- 

 ready outlined, except that the typical alpinus form has relatively broader 

 parietals than fuliginosus, calijorniats and oregonensis. In this respect the 

 Idaho examples correspond to the Stuart Lake and Camp Davidson specimens 

 and agree with these in the large size of skull, the flattened fronto- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



2. Sciuropterus alpinus fuliginosus Subsp. nov. Cascade Mountain Flying Squir- 

 rel. 



Type No. 1,058, ad. $ , Col. of S. N. Rhoads. Collected by Al- 

 lan Rupert on the Cascade Mountains near Martin Station, Kittitass 

 Co., Washington, at an elevation of about 8,000 feet, March, 1893. 



Geographic distribution. — Higher elevations of the Cascade, Coast 

 and Sierra Nevada Mountains, probably intergrading southward 

 into subspecies californicus, and in the coast lowlands to oregonen- 

 sis. 



Habitat. — Spruce forests of the higher mountains. 



General characters. — Size and proportions as in alpinus; colors 

 darker, more sooty, browner above, beneath brownish-yellow. 



Color. — Winter and summer pelages very similar, not glossy. 

 Color of type : hair of back, rump, upper sides, top of head and base 

 of tail, minutely tipped with broccoli brown, 16 the brown tips poorly 

 concealing, even in the smoothest and fullest pelaged specimens, 

 the blackish-slate of under fur, giving the upper parts a dull mot- 

 tled slaty-drab appearance. Upper basal half of tail like back, re- 

 mainder becoming more slaty, the terminal third blackish-slate with 

 a smoke-gray cast. Upper surface of flying membrane like upper 

 terminal third of tail. Upper surfaces of feet mouse-gray; the fur 

 covering hind toes gray. Lower surface of tail smoke-gray, becom- 

 ing more broadly bordered with blackish-slate toward distal end. 

 Entire underparts light drab-gray, with a wood-brown tinge at base 

 of throat and along lower margin of flying membrane; a nearly 

 white narrow stripe extends along extreme outer lower margin of 

 flying membrane in contrast with the dark colors of upper margin ; 

 basal | of hairs of underparts plumbeous. Hairy soles of feet and 



parietal plane and great relative mastoid width as contrasted with skulls of 

 sabrinus. In color the oldest example, No. 6,959, Col. of E. A. and O. Bangs 

 is darker, less rusty, wood-brown than Maine sabrinus above and the tail is 

 more heavily shaded with black above and below. The sides of face, lips, 

 eyelids and ears are strongly shaded with black on a smoke-gray ground and 

 the underside of body tinged with wood brown, darkest on sides of abdomen. 

 Upper feet, grayish plumbeous. Total length 304 mm. tail vertebrce 146 ; 

 hind foot 40 ; ear from crown, 16. The other specimen No. 6,960 is darker 

 (blacker) above, the brown having an olive cast. This form is lighter colored 

 and smaller than fuliginosus, darker and smaller than alpinus and paler and 

 larger than sabrinus. Its cranial characters, as above outlined, are quite dis- 

 tinct from those of sabrinus and agree with alpinus in their differences 

 from fuliginosus. I propose to name it for Mr. Outram Bangs, Sciuropterus 

 alpinus bangsi, subsp. nov. Type, No. 6,959, Col. of E. A. & O. Bangs, from 

 Idaho County, Idaho. Col. by Harbison and Bargamin, Raymond, Idaho. 

 16 Color-standards of Ridgway's Nomenclature are used in this paper. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



outer surfaces of ears drab-gray ; sides of head smoke-gray. A nar- 

 now circle of blackish slate surrounds the eyes; whiskers black. 



Cranial characters. — Presumably as in dlpinus. Compared with 

 sabrinus from Maine the skull is much larger, more elongate and 

 depressed. The greatest width of parietals is less than their great- 

 est (lateral) length, whereas in sabrinus these proportions are re- 

 versed. In adult fuliginosus the widths of frontal constriction be- 

 fore and behind the postorbital processes are about equal ; in sabrinus 

 the posterior width greatly exceeds the anterior interorbital con- 

 striction. Owing to the interorbital depression of frontals and their 

 postorbital inflation, together with the pug-nosed shape of the nasals 

 in sabrinus, the lateral facial profile of that species is decidedly 

 dished. In fuliginosus the facial profile is straight, or in some cases 

 slightly convex. The incisors in sabrimis are deep chrome, in fuli- 

 ginosus and its western allies they are orange-rnfous. 



Dimensions (of type taken in flesh). — Total length 317 millime- 

 ters ; tail vertebra? 153 ; hind foot 40 ; ear, from crown (relaxed) 

 18 ; length of carpal fascia 25. Average of 3 adults from type 

 locality (in above order) : 310 ; 146 ; 41.5 ; 17 ; 26. Skull of type: 

 occipito-nasal length 40 ; greatest breadth 23.8 ; length of nasals 

 13 ; frontal constriction behind postorbital processes 9 ; interorbital 

 constriction 8.2 ; greatest length of mandible 23.2. Average of 3 

 adults from type locality (in above order) : 41 ; 24 ; 12.8 ; 8.5 ; 8 ; 

 24.2. 



General remarks. — Subspecies fuliginosus, from its close resem- 

 blance to all the characters justly assigned to alpinus by Richardson 

 and Bachman, is nothing more than a dark race of the Rocky 

 Mountain animal and equal to if not exceeding it in size. The 

 Stuart Lake specimen, already referred to under alpinus, closely re- 

 sembles fuliginosus, differing only in slightly smaller size, browner 

 back and blacker face in the direction of oregonensis, confirming the 

 supposition of a complete intergradation between the two at inter- 

 mediate elevations. From what we know of the fauna and flora of 

 the Selkirk Range, it is probable that the Flying Squirrel of those 

 mountains is nearer fuliginosus than alpinus. The form living in 

 the lowlands of the upper Great Basin, the existence of which near 

 Vernon, B. C, I once had great reason to remember, but which an 

 unfortunate encounter with hornets prevented me from obtaining, 

 would be of great interest. It is, so far as I can remember from a 

 hasty but vivid view in life, a distinctly smaller, lighter colored 

 animal than fuliginosus. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



Specimens examined. — Alaska, 1 ; British Columbia, 8 ; Washing- 

 ton, 4. 



3. Sciuropterus alpinus californicus subsp. nov. Sierra Madre Flying Squirrel. 



Type No. 3,487, ad. 9 , Col. of S. N. Rhoads. Collected by R. 

 B. Herron on the San Bernardino Mountains (near Squirrel Inn), 

 San Bernardino County, California, at an elevation of 5,200 feet, 

 June 5, 1896. 



Geographic distribution. — Sierra Madre Mountains, California. 



Habitat. — Mixed pine and oak belt of the mountains, living in 

 deserted woodpecker burrows in dead pine stubs 10 to 30 feet from 

 the ground. 



General characters. — Proportions much as in alpinus, but some- 

 what smaller and with a relatively shorter hind foot and tail. Color 

 palest (?) of the American flying squirrels. 



Color (of type). — Above, including whole upper surface, except 

 nose, forehead, flying membrane, fore and hind legs and terminal f 

 of tail, between drab-gray and wood-brown ; bases of upper body 

 hairs slate color, this shade predominating on upper surfaces of fly- 

 ing membrane and the fore and hind legs. Hind and fore feet 

 brownish smoke-gray, fading on the toes to whitish smoke-gray. 

 Upper basal third of tail like back, remainder of tail becoming dark 

 smoke-gray. Sides of face and neck and across rostrum pale ashen 

 smoke-gray. Black whiskers fading to smoke gray along the termi- 

 nal half. Ears drab-gray within and without. Mouse-gray orbital 

 ring scarcely appreciable. Whole underside of body, head and 

 limbs nearly uniform pale, buffy or yellowish-gray, with a French 

 gray cast caused by the darkening of the exposed basal portions of 

 the hairs and becoming nearly pure white on throat, lower fore legs 

 and inner margins of thighs. Furred soles of hind feet and whole 

 underside of tail pale drab. 17 



Cranial characters. — Smaller, but otherwise similar to those of 

 fiiliginosus. The incisors are but slightly darker than those of 

 sabrinus. 



Dimensions (of type taken in the flesh). — Total length, 286 milli- 

 meters ; tail vertebra?, 127 ; hind foot, 38 ; ear, from crown (when 

 dry), 16 ; length of carpal fascia, 24. Average of four suckling 

 adult female topotypes (in above order): 292, 133, 38, — ,23. 

 Skull, of type : occipito-nasal length, 39 ; greatest breadth, 23.8 ; 



17 This color name is not used by Ridgway ; in fact, nearly all the colors of 

 this subspecies are not to be matched in the Nomenclature of Colors. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



length of nasals, 11.5; frontal constriction behind postorbital pro- 

 cesses, 8.4; interorbital constriction, 8.3 ; greatest length of mandi- 

 ble, 21.8. 



General remarks. — The San Bernardino or Sierra Madre flying 

 squirrel, true to its environment, has assumed the characteristic pale- 

 ness of the Southern California mountain mammalia as contrasted 

 with their near allies of the Cascade Range. In size and general 

 proportions it seems to be intermediate between fuliginosus and 

 oregonensis ; in color it probably comes closest to alpinus, but is 

 much grayer. Its skull is almost as small as in oregonensis, and the 

 characteristic relative narrowness of the posterior frontal constric- 

 tion distinguishing the alpinus group from sabrinus is very pro- 

 nounced. 



Mr. Herron makes the following interesting notes on this subspe- 

 cies : '' Those four flying squirrels are the only ones I have taken 

 in this country. They were all taken from. dead pine trees or stumps, 

 in holes made by the red-shafted flicker, from 10 to 30 feet from the 

 ground. * * * * Unlike the eastern species, I do not believe 

 they have their young in nests made of leaves placed in the branches 

 of trees, as I have never seen nests of this kind in the mountains, 

 but I think they have their young in these deserted woodpeckers' 

 nests. Their food, I think, is mostly acorns. They were all taken 

 at an altitude of about 5,200 feet, near Squirrel Inn. I would say 

 they range from four to six thousand feet altitude, as they have 

 never been seen in Bear Valley some 30 miles farther east on the 

 same range, and about 8,000 feet altitude." 



Specimens examined. — California, San Bernardino Mountains, 4. 



4. Sciuropterus alpinus oregonensis (Bachman). Bachman's Flying Squirrel. 1 ' 



1839. Pteromys oregonensis Bachman, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., VIII, 

 p. 101. 



1877. Sciuropterus volucella var. hudsonhis Allen, Monog N. Amer. Rod., p. 

 655. 



1881. Sciuropterus volucella b. oregonentis [sic] Trouessart, Cat. des Mam., 

 p. 67. 



Type locality. — " Pine woods of the Columbia [River] near the 

 sea." Probably near St. Helen, Columbia Co., Oregon. 19 



1S This name is more distinctive than " Oregon " or " Pacific Coast " Flying 

 Squirrel, as the mountains of both these regions are inhabited by fuliginosus, 

 and it is probable that the lowland coast form of northern California is a dis- 

 tinct race. 



19 In •' Townsend's Narrative," page 177, it is stated that he secured ''several 

 new species of birds and two or three undescribed quadrupeds" during his 

 residence with Nuttall on a brig moored "near the lower mouth of the Wal- 

 lammet." This was during the early part of November, 1834. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Geographic distribution. — Lower elevations of the Pacific Slope, 

 from southern Alaska to northern California, intergrading at 

 higher elevations with fuliginosus and southwardly toward a lighter 

 colored race more closely allied to calif ornicus. 



Habitat. — Coniferous and deciduous forests. 



General characters. — Size intermediate between alpiims and 

 volans ; tail long and slender; colors darkest of the American fly- 

 ing squirrels. 



Color (winter pelage). — Above, including body, crown of head, 

 hips and shoulders Mars-brown with a russet shade and tinged with 

 clay color, the whole being darkened by numerous black-tipped 

 hairs. Upper surfaces of feet, hams, shoulders, flying membrane, 

 ears and tail more or less shaded with seal-brown to slate-black ; in 

 darkest individuals from Sumas, B. C, these parts are dark clove- 

 brown to black. In the type the black has faded to dark Isabella 

 color, and the brown to light russet, the darker terminal part of the 

 tail being slaty russet. In British Columbia and Alaska specimens 

 of oregonensis the upper tail and feet are in marked contrast with 

 the colors of the back and rump, becoming slaty at the base of the 

 tail, and in darkest specimens this becomes dull black over the ter- 

 minal third of the tail, the hairs of the upper base of the tail being 

 more or less mixed with dark wood-brown or broccoli brown. In 

 the type the contrast between tail and body colors is less marked. 

 Another color peculiarity of oregonensis is the slight difference in 

 shade of upper and lower caudal pelages and the contrast between 

 the lower tail and lower body colors. In all the other American 

 forms the tail colors agree closely with those of the corresponding 

 surface of body. 



Lower surface of body, from base of neck to vent, Isabella-color, 

 tinged with rusty on thighs, breast and flying membrane, and more 

 or less darkened by the exposed slate-gray bases of hairs, this color 

 reaching more than half way to the hair tips. Lower surface of 

 fore legs, a spot on chin and a narrow median area from breast to vent, 

 whitish. Region around *mouth and eyes and nasal pad blackish. 

 Sides of face and across rostrum light slate-gray. 



Dimensions (of type, fide Bachman, taken from skin). — Total 

 length, 302 millimeters; tail vertebrae, 132; hind foot, 39; ear, 

 from crown, 15; carpal fascia, 23.5. Average dimensions of four 

 adults, two from Oregon, two from Sumas, B. C, in above order: 

 288, 135, 39, 1 7, 23. Skull : average of three adults— total length, 39 ; 



22 




326 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



o 



hH 



Ph 

 fa 

 s 



w 



H 



Ph 

 O 



fa 

 H 

 CO 



fa- 

 ts 



fa 



o 



a, 

 t= 

 o 

 Ah 



e 



g 



B 



fa 



EH 



fa 

 O 



CO 



fa 



n 

 O 



fa 



Ah 



fa 

 fa 

 H 

 fa 



fa 

 o 



CO 



H 

 fa 



s 



fa 

 Ph 



CO 



< 



fa 

 S3 



a a 



o "H 



5 t^ 



Ti a 



CD 



3 "* 



a h 



s. o 



e— I .- 



C QJ 



E o 

 aj 



C3 CD 



P O hi 



-a °5 



CD OS O 



a^. a 



.fe" CD 5 



Ha 5 



S o R 

 *" o ^ 

 8 §, 



? ej ■» 



CD OS'S 



CD 3 03 



*- O m 



CD 



S bo9 



2 = « 



ap, cd 



H\J ft 



■hS CO 



* « CO 



>%« 



■cfl 



CD 3 



dco 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



greatest breadth, 23.8; length of nasals, 11.8; greatest length of 

 mandible, 22 ; frontal constriction behind post-orbital processes, 

 8.5 ; interorbital constriction, 7.5. 



General remarks. — A study of oregonensis, as represented by a 

 fair series of specimens extending from Tongas, Alaska, to northern 

 California, seems to indicate that three forms of this small, dark 

 colored type inhabit the Pacific Coast lands, the typical form found 

 from northern Oregon to southern Alaska being darkest and 

 brownest, becoming larger and more rusty northward, and smaller, 

 grayer and more tawny southward. Lack of specimens from the 

 two extremes of its distribution compel me to reserve a decision on 

 these points. In some respects the differences between oregonensis 

 and the other subspecies of alpinus recognized in this paper seem 

 almost specific, but in some of the specimens from intervening locali- 

 ties I find such a strong indication of intergrading with fuliginosus 

 that this separation seems unwarranted. 



Specimens examined. — Alaska, 2; British Columbia, 5; Wash- 

 ington, 4 ; Oregon 5 ; ? California, 1. 




328 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897, 



CYPRiEA LYNX DEFORMED BY DISEASE. 



BY JOHN FORD. 



A very remarkable series of shells comprising sixty or more spec- 

 imens of diseased Cyprcea lynx (figures 1, 2, 3) was recently secured 

 by the writer while examining a barrel of mixed species of Cyprcea 

 that apparently came direct from Singapore, E. Indies. As much of 

 the animal matter remained in all of the shells it seems quite probable 

 that they were barreled, indiscriminately, as soon as obtained. The 

 action of the disease appears to have been the same in all the spec- 

 imens, the chief abnormal characters being a pallid and emaciated 

 appearance of the outer margin of the right lip, and the outward 

 bow-like curve of the same (fig. 1). In some instances from within 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 2. 

 Abnormal Cypriea lynx. 



the lip a thin, shelf-like partition, suggesting a former imperfect lip 

 projected partly across the cavity. Several millimeters above this 

 partition a second lip appears, with teeth that are fairly normal (fig. 

 2). In fig. 3, a shell is shown in which a flat, white, shelf-like lip 

 replaces the convex and crenulated peristome of the normal shell. 



Other irregular characters are present, but those specified are the 

 most important. As a rule the left lip and dorsal parts of the shells 

 exhibit normal conditions both of form and color. So far as can be 

 learned no specimens similarly affected have been heretofore observed. 



No evidence of the disease was apparent in the associated species. 



Representative specimens have been presented to the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and to the Wagner Free Institute 

 of Science. A fine suite may also be seen in the writer's collection. 




1897.] natueal sciences of philadelphia. 329 



July 6. 

 Professor Henry A. Pilsbry in the Chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



July 20. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "New Australian Mollusks," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry was presented for publication. 



August 3. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



Patagonian Tertiary fossils. — Prof. H. A. Pilsbry spoke of a 

 small collection of fossils from near Cape Fairweather, Patagonia, 

 collected by the Princeton University Expedition to that region in 

 charge of Mr. Hatcher. 



The general aspect of the fauna as represented by these fosjsils is 

 decidedly Magellanic ; but the presence of large oysters, Cardium 

 and Turritella, differentiate it from the recent fauna of Cape Horn. 

 Negative characteristics are also significant, dominant Magellanic 

 genera as Nacella, Photinula, etc. being absent. 



The forms common to the Cape Fairweather deposit and the recent 

 fauna are Trophon laciniatus, Calyptrcea (probably), and Magellania 

 venosa. The extinct forms are Trophon inornatus, Turritella inno- 

 tabilis, Pecten actinodes, Ostnea, two species. The other forms 

 enumerated below are not sufficiently well preserved to base con- 

 clusions upon. Of the species supposed to be extinct, the Trophon 

 and Turritella are nearer to recent forms than to anything yet 

 known from the Patagonian Tertiary. 



The evidence of so limited a number of species is not absolutely 

 conclusive as to the age of the deposit, but so far as it goes indicates 

 that it is Pliocene. Certainly no argument for greater antiquity 

 could be based upon the data now available, whatever a more com- 

 plete knowledge of the fauna of the beds in question may reveal. 



Trophon laciniatus Martyu. Specimens 6 to 6'5 cm. in length. 




330 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Trophon inornatus n. sp. 



Form as in T. lacinatus or somewhat more obese ; surface with- 

 out lamelke or spiral cords, smooth ex- 

 cept for growth-Hues. Specimens meas- 

 ure : 



Alt. 50, diam. 34 mm. 



Alt. 85 mm. 



CalyptR/F.a cf. mamillaris Brod. In- 

 ternal casts show no features incom- 

 patible with the recent C. mamillaris 

 of the west coast of South America. 



TURRITELLA INNOTABrLIS 11. sp. 



Shell long-conic, of about a dozen 

 slowly increasing whorls, which are 

 but slightly convex, but become de- 

 cidedly so below, the latter two or 

 three being well rounded. Sculpture 



on the lower whorls of five rounded 

 Trophon inornatus. i 1 i • i j i 



and subequal spiral cords separated 



by intervals of about the same width, traversed by one to three 

 (generally two) sharp threads. Earlier whorls have three primary 

 spirals parted by intervals bearing a single strong thread, and still 

 earlier the threads disappear from the intervals. 



Internal casts show well rounded whorls, the last just mentionably 

 flattened above the periphery, faintly angular at the junction of the 

 outer with the basal regions, the latter less convex but hardly flat- 

 tened. 



Length 31, greatest diameter about 12 mm. (from largest mould). 



Described from external moulds and internal casts, which alone 



are preserved in the rather hard limestone, which contains, besides 



numerous Turritellas, the remains of Cardium and Pinna f, and 



some included pebbles. 



A fragmentary mould of the basal volution of a somewhat larger 

 specimen thau the type shows the basal sculpture of numerous un- 

 equal and quite low cords, with some radial growth-wrinkles. 



The general figure is that of the Chilian T. cingulata Sowb., but 

 the details of sculpture differ. 



Cardium sp. undet. One very imperfect" valve of a species prob- 

 ably resembling muricatum or consors. 

 Pecten actinodes Sowerby. 

 Ostrtea ferarresi Orb. Larger than d'Orbigny's types, the larg- 



est measuring 12 - 5 cm 



long, 



10 - 5 wide. There is also less cren- 



ulation of the valve edges than the type shows. 



Ostr^ea n. sp.? A rather thin, straight-beaked oyster, not corre- 

 sponding well with any of the described species. One specimen. 



Pinna (?) Mere fragments in a refractory matrix. 



Magellania venosa Solander. Abundant. 

 There were also moulds of crab or lobster chela 1 . 




1897.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 331 



August 17. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



A paper entitled "The North American Species of Argia (Order 

 Odonata)," by Philip P. Calvert was presented for publication. 



The death of J. Sergeant Price, a member, on the 16th inst. was 

 announced. 



August 24. 

 Mr. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



August 31. 

 Mr. Uselma C. Smith in the Chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of Two New Species of Cerion " 

 by H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta was presented for publication. 




332 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



September 7. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



September 14. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled "The Annual Molt of the Sanderling," by 

 Witrner Stone, was presented for publication. 



Scalpellum and Bala r nus from Texas. — Mr. Pilsbry exhibited 

 fossil valves of Scalpellum and Balanus collected in Texas by Mr. 

 Charles W. Johnson, and described the former as follows: 



Scalpellum Chamberlaini n. sp. Tergum (fig. 1) very thick 

 and strong, of very irregular contour, the scutal and carinal mar- 

 gins subparallel. Apex conspicuously recurved ; occludent margin 

 very convex ; carinal margin sigmoid, being markedly concave from 

 the apex two-thirds of the distance to basal angle, then bending in 

 the opposite direction ; scutal margin slightly sinuous, nearly 

 js\ straight, along the portion adjacent to the scu- 

 ^yjt\ turn, then abruptly deflected, the two-fifths near- 

 est carina running upward to the basal or distal 

 angle. Sculpture consists of well-marked, fine 

 growth-strife and radial ribs and strise ; the prin- 

 cipal radii are (1) a strong curved rib from apex 

 to basal or distal angle, (2) a sharper but more 

 slender rib running to the angle on the scutal margin, (3) a low, 

 wide rib along the occludent edge, and (4) a low, often obscure rib 

 running between (2) and (3), and producing a slight sinuosity in 

 the scutal margin. Besides these radial ribs, there are numerous 

 fine radial lines throughout. Inside the surface is nearly smooth, a 

 trifle excavated mesially or below, rising into a heavy callous ridge 

 near the scutal margin, and equally thick along the occludent 

 border. The apex is slightly free, with a small area sculptured with 

 recession lines. 



Dimensions : length of occludent margin 14 mm. ; length of valve 

 from middle of occludent margin to basal or distal angle 24 mm. 



Locality and horizon : Berryman's Place, three miles northeast 

 of Alto, Cherokee Co., Texas, Lower Claiborne Eocene. 



Four terga were collected by Mr. Johnson at the above-mentioned 

 locality, all being from the left side. No other plates were found. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



The irregular shape of the tergum, exceptionally convex, occludent 

 and concave, carinal margin, and unusual angulation of the scutal 

 margin are sufficiently unusual features to insure recognition of the 

 species, although the tergum is generally one of the less satisfactory 

 plates for description. The discovery of the carina will be looked 

 for with interest, as the position of the species in the genus cannot 

 be predicated without a knowledge of that valve. 



The species is respectfully dedicated to the Rev. Leander Trow- 

 bridge Chamberlain, D. D., whose liberal and enlightened interest 

 in the "Lea Collection of Eocene Mollusca " must be regarded as 

 one of the important factors in the present revival of the study of 

 American tertiary paleontology. 



A single scutum of Balanus was collected by Mr. Johnson from 

 the Eocene of Black Shoals, Brazos River, Texas. It is somewhat 

 worn, and the species remains doubtful until further remains come 

 to light. 



September 21. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



September 28. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



The death of Johannes Japetus Smith Steenstrup, a Correspon- 

 dent, June 20, 1897, was announced. 



The following were elected members : — 



Thomas H. Conarroe, M. D., G. A. Mueller and Mrs. Catherine 

 Mueller. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN NORTH AMERICAN BEES. 

 BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



Osmia viridimicans n. sp. » 



9 . Length 12 ram., brilliant peacock- green, the pubescence entirely 

 black. Head large, thorax ordinary, abdomen somewhat elongate, 

 the straight sides almost parallel, but slightly diverging to the fourth 

 segment ; after which the sides rapidly converge, meeting at the 

 apex at about a right angle. The light shines on the abdomen in 

 such a way as to give the impression of deep sutures, which in fact 

 do not exist. Punctuation ordinary, punctures of vertex and meso- 

 thorax distinct and separable. Basal area of mesothorax with its 

 lower portion smooth and shining. 



Lower part of face bluer than the vertex ; cheeks broader than 

 eyes ; black pubescence of face tolerably abundant ; front edge of 

 clypeus black, straight, not produced at sides; mandibles 4-dentate; 

 teguke green ; wings smoky, hyaline, apical margin broadly darker, 

 no dark streak in marginal cell; first recurrent nervure reaching 

 second submarginal cell a very short distance from its base, second 

 recurrent reaching it at the beginning of the apical fourth ; legs 

 bright green, the tarsi black ; ventral scopa entirely black. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., one 9 , June 5, 1895 (T. Kincaid). 

 Readily known by its large size and the characters italicized. Mr. 

 Fox sends me a Nevada example of 0. maura, which though en- 

 tirely black, has the same form as viridimicans, and agrees in hav- 

 ing the second recurrent nervure reaching the second submarginal 

 cell quite at the beginning of the apical fourth. 



Osmia cobaltina Cresson, 1878. 



Three 9 s from Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid), are 

 of a very beautiful deep blue color, and agree with Cresson's descrip- 

 tion. 



•Osmia kincaidii n. sp. 



9 . Length 6 to 8 mm., brilliant peacock-green, the pubescence 

 very sparse, black and dirty white mixed. Head large, thorax sub- 

 globose, abdomen short and oval. Punctuation ordinary, punctures 

 distinctly separated on mesothorax, closer and largely confluent on 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



vertex. Facial triangle higher than broad ; the face may be all 

 blue, or green with the lower portion blue ; the thin pubescence, 

 even on the clypeus, is black and pale intermixed ; cheeks about as 

 broad as eyes ; antenna? wholly dark ; anterior edge of clypeus a 

 little produced, black, broadly truncate, sometimes a little depressed 

 in middle; mandibles with two large teeth, the third tooth, if pres- 

 ent, is not visible when they are closed ; thorax with mixed black 

 and pale hairs, especially long on scutellum ; basal area of meta- 

 thorax minutely granular, not shining ; tegular punctured, green 

 with sometimes a purple spot; wings smoky ; nervures black; first 

 recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell a little less than 

 one-third from its base, second joining it a little less than one-fourth 

 from the apex ; legs green, tarsi black, hind tarsi sometimes sub- 

 metallic on basal joint; dorsal surface of abdomen almost nude, the 

 sparse short pubescence mixed black and pale; ventral scopa wholly 

 black. 



$ . Length 5? to 8 mm., bright bottle-green, that is, a much yel- 

 lower green than the 9 • Pubescence of head and thorax more 

 copious, nowhere mixed with black ; creamy white on clypeus, 

 cheeks beneath, femora and lower part of thorax, pale ochreous on 

 vertex and dorsum of thorax, especially scutellum ; wings a little 

 clearer ; tarsi more distinctly metallic ; the scanty pubescence of 

 abdomen all light ; sixth dorsal segment barely notched, seventh 

 strongly emarginate ; seventh ventral segment greenish-blue, large, 

 its hind margin rounded, with pale pubescence. 



Hab. — Olympia and Seattle, Wash. (T. Kincaid). The speci- 

 mens can be separated into two general series, one larger, the other 

 smaller and with more globose abdomen. After careful study, I 

 fail to find specific characters separating these, but if it should be 

 subsequently held that they are different, the type is to be consid- 

 ered the larger form. The females are, with one exception, of the 

 larger size ; the males are, with three exceptions, of the smaller ; 

 both forms were taken at the same time and locality. 



The exact data are as follows : 



Seattle: 1 9 May 14, 1897, on Rub us ursimis ; 1 $ April 14, 

 1897, on sand bank ; 1 $ April 18, 1897. 



Olympia : 6 9 , 3 June 1st, one June 2d, one June 21st, one July 

 1st. 13 $ , one May 11th, two May 5th, one May 23rd, three May 

 25th, one May 28th, one June 13th, two April 25th, on Fragaria; 

 two April 22d, on Taraxacum. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The female of 0. kincaidii is easily separable from anything de- 

 scribed, by its brilliant color, small size, and partly pale pubescence 

 on thorax and face. The S is not so easily separated, and should 

 be compared with exigua from California, bella from Colorado, and 

 illinoensis from Illinois. It agrees with Cresson's description of 

 exigua except that none of the specimens are quite so small, and the 

 tarsi are not testaceous, but black with a metallic tint, the last joint 

 rufescent or wholly dark. From bella it will be known at once by 

 the absence of black pubescence on the abdomen. From illinoensis 

 it differs by the distinctly infuscated wings, the second submarginal 

 cell not longer than first, the abdominal pubescence not subfuscous. 

 It is quite possible that the present species may eventually prove to 

 be a northern, larger and darker race of the Californian exigua, hut 

 it is desirable to distinguish it, whether as a species or as a race. 



It is to be remarked that Provancher (Add. Faun. Hym., p. 330) 

 records a male from Ottawa, attributed to 0. exigua. I cannot 

 think it likely that this identification is correct, but it is impossible 

 to reach any definite conclusion, since Provancher's description ap- 

 pears to be simply a translation of Cresson's. It may be that he 

 had illinoensis before him. 



The body-colors of both sexes of 0. fulgida (Colorado examples 

 sent by Mr. Fox) agree with the colors of the corresponding sexes of 

 kincaidii, but fulgida, while about as broad as kincaidii, is conspic- 

 uously longer, the abdomen being shaped more like that of viridi- 

 micans. 



Osmia bella Cresson, 1878. 



A $ specimen from Olympia, Wash., June 19, 1895 (T. Kin- 

 caid), must be referred to bella, but it represents a variety with 

 darker wings, and the apical pubescence of the second ventral seg- 

 ment pale. It is of a brilliant green color, and is conspicuously 

 larger than the males of kincaidii. The black pubescence on the 

 apical portion of the abdomen is very evident. The second sub- 

 marginal cell is noticeably longer than the first on the cubital nerv- 

 ure. Robertson's illinoensis must be very near to bella. A Colo- 

 rado bella from Cresson's series, lent by Mr. Fox, is somewhat 

 smaller than the Olympia example, distinctly bluer, and the second 

 submarginal cell is only about as long as the first on the cubital 

 nervure. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



Osmia calla n. sp. 



$. Length 8 to 9 mm., stoutly built, Aug ochlora- green. This 

 almost exactly resembles the Olympia form of bella, but is, per- 

 haps, a very slightly yellower-green, while the dorsal pubescence of 

 the abdomen is entirely white, and the second submarginal cell is not 

 longer than the first on the cubital nervure. The ocelli are a little 

 further apart, and the teeth of the seventh abdominal segment seem 

 to average longer. The pubescence of the inner side of the basal 

 joints of the tarsi is fuscous, not black. 



Other distinguishing features of 0. calla are as follows : Pubes- 

 cence throughout dull white, sometimes perceptibly tinged with 

 ochraceous, nowhere mixed with black. Antennae entirely black ; 

 clypeus ordinary. Punctures of mesothorax very close ; teg idee 

 wholly green ; basal area of metathorax ill-defined, minutely rough- 

 ened, not shining; wings smoky-hyaline, first recurrent nervure 

 joining second submarginal cell at about the end of the basal third, 

 second not far from the apex ; legs green, tarsi piceous; sixth ab- 

 dominal segment notched feebly or quite distinctly, but never entire ; 

 second ventral segment large, purplish, rather densely fringed at 

 apex with pale ochraceous- tinged pubescence. 



Bab.— Olympia, Wash., 3 $, May 25th and June 17, 1894 (T. 

 Kincaid). This has much the characters of $ kincaidii, but is 

 conspicuously larger and bulkier than the largest males of that spe- 

 cies. The antenna? in kincaidii are longer in proportion to the size 

 of the head. While in color and length 0. calla agrees with $ 

 fulgida from Colorado, calla is much broader than fulgida, so that 

 the two have quite a different appearance. The breadth of the ab- 

 domen in calla is 3 mm., in fulgida $ 2h 



Osmia bruneri n. sp. 



9 . Length 9 mm., brilliant blue-green, the clypeus, legs and 

 margins of abdominal segments shining purple. This may be only 

 a race of cobaltina, from which it differs in being green instead of 

 blue. The pubescence and ventral scopa are black, but dirty white 

 hairs are intermixed slightly on the vertex, quite conspicuously on 

 the dorsum of thorax, and also on the first abdominal segment. 

 Compared with the Pasco cobaltina, the spurs of hind tibia? are con- 

 siderably larger- and stouter, curved at the end, and the submargi- 

 nal cells are both longer. The wings are strongly infuscated, and 

 the second submarginal cell is, perhaps, a little longer than the first 

 on the cubital nervure. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



From the Colorado 0. fulgida 1 and viridis, 0. bruneri will be 

 known by the green tegulse, and the partly light pubescence of tho- 

 rax. It may possibly be the unknown female of 0. bella, but there 

 is no way of determining whether this is the case at present. 



Hub. — Colorado Springs, Colo. (L. Bruner, no. 19). 



Osmia inurbana Cresson, 1878. 



$ . 7 to 11 mm. long; dark brassy-green. Sixth segment of abdo- 

 men distinctly notched,. Pubescence rather copious, tinged with och- 

 reous on dorsum. 37 examples, Olympia and Seattle, Wash. (T. 

 Kincaid). There is some variation, but they seem to be all one spe- 

 cies ; the extremes of size are connected by intermediates. The 

 Seattle specimens were taken on April 17th and 18th, one in May ; 

 eight are from Seattle, the rest from Olympia. The Olympia dates 

 run from April 20th to May 25th. One was on Fragaria April 

 25th. A Colorado inurbana, sent by Mr. Fox, is like our medium 

 sized examples. 



Osmia odontogaster n. sp. 



$. Length 9 to 10 mm.; stoutly built, head of ordinary size, 

 abdomen suboval ; dark brassy-green, metathorax bluer ; pubescence 

 tolerably dense, ochraceous on head and thorax, very dense and cream 

 color on clypeus, nowhere mixed with black, nigrofuscous on inner 

 sides of basal joints of middle and hind tarsi, ochraceous on base 

 and apex of abdomen, short and fuscous on second, third and fourth 

 segments, and on the basal portion of fifth, varying to griseous ; 

 third and following segments more or less distinctly fringed with 

 pale or ochraceous hairs; punctuation of head and thorax strong 

 but extremely dense, becoming sparser on middle of scutellum, which 

 is thus a little shiny ; basal area of metathorax with its lateral in- 

 ferior margins shining ; punctuation of abdomen less dense, ordinary, 

 leaving the surface shining. 



Face rather long and narrow ; antennre of only moderate length, 

 flagellum dull rufous beneath ; clypeus ordinary ; mandibles with a 

 large pointed terminal blade, and a broad rounded inner tooth ; 

 tegula3 black, shining, punctured ; wings smoky-hyaline, a little 

 darker on apical margin, no distinct cloud or streak in marginal 

 cell ; second submarginal somewhat shorter than the first on cubital 



1 A fulgida from Colorado, sent by Mr. Fox, has the thoracic pubescence 

 pale brownish, probably faded. It is, however, a much narrower and longer 

 insect than bruneri, the abdomen being of the elongate parallel-sided type, 

 whereas bruneri has it of the oval type. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



nervure ; first recurrent nervure joining second submarginal cell 

 nearly at the end of its basal third, second at the beginning of the 

 apical fourth or a little beyond ; legs black, basal joint of hind 

 tarsus broad, truncate at the end; sixth segment of abdomen with 

 the margin entire, seventh emarginate ; second ventral segment with 

 its hind margin fringed with long pale hairs, and presenting medially 

 a large and prominent tooth, directed backward, shaped like the term- 

 inal joint of a finger, but having a longitudinal groove. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., 5 $ , May 10th and 25th, June 1st and 

 13, 1894 (T. Kincaid). This might be taken for inurbana, but its 

 abdominal characters at once distinguish it. 



*e v 



Osmia nanula n. ap. 



9 . Length 7 to 8 mm. ; stoutly built, short, with the abdomen 

 broad-oval. Color of head, thorax and abdomen dark greenish- 

 blue ; legs, mandibles and antennee black. Pubescence black, with 

 ochraceous on sides of face, on occiput about tubercles, slightly on 

 mesothorax, quite densely alorig hind border of scutellum, on sides 

 of metathorax, on lateral hind borders of the first three abdominal 

 segments, especially the first, thinly along whole hind borders of 

 four and five, very sparsely on surface of sixth, and on first four 

 tarsi behind. The black hairs on the scutellum are considerably 

 longer than the ochraceous ones, and are placed in front of them. 

 Ventral scopa all black. Hairs on inner side of basal joint of hind 

 tarsi dark fuscous. Pubescence of clypeus black, sparse, its ante- 

 rior margin and the mandibles with some orange-rufous hairs. The 

 ochraceous pubescence of the thorax, in fresh specimens, is quite 

 bright, almost orange-rufous. 



Punctuation ordinary, punctures of vertex and mesothorax large, 

 very close, but not all confluent, the abdomen is quite shiny. Head 

 fairly but not excessively large, clypeus ordinary, mandibles triden- 

 tate ; tegulse shining black, with asubmetallic tinge in front: wings 

 dusky, broad apical margin and upper half of marginal cell con- 

 spicuously darker : second submarginal cell noticeably shorter than 

 first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second 

 submarginal cell just before the end of its proximal third, second 

 very near its tip. 



Hab.— Seattle, Wash., 4 9 , April 17th, May 11th and 19th (T. 

 Kincaid) ; Olympia, Wash., 5 9 , May 23rd, June 1st, 19th and 

 30th (T. Kincaid). A 9 taken by Mr. Kincaid at Olympia, 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Wash., differs by having a brassy-green abdomen ; it appears to be 

 only a variety of this species. 



I have not described the $ of 0. nanula, but I have before me 

 a series of nine males, collected by Mr. Kincaid at Seattle and 



■lyrnpia, which I believe belong here. They average slightly 

 smaller than the females, and are of a brassy-green color. They 



~ight readily be confused with small examples of inurbana, but the 



sixth abdominal segment is entire or very feebly notched. The dor- 



1 pubescence of the thorax and head is quite brightly colored, 



and not mixed with black. The smaller size and the absence of 



the ventral tooth at once separate them from odontogaster. 



Osmia tristella n. sp. 



9 . Length 7 to 8 mm., of ordinary build, the abdomen somewhat 

 longer than in 0. nanula. Head, thorax and abdomen dark indigo 

 blue ; legs, mandibles and antenna? black. Head of ordinary size, 

 not so large as in nanula. Pubescence black, not dense, long on 

 head and thorax, white just behind wings and at sides of first ab- 

 dominal segment subbasally ; there is also some obscure white or 

 whitish pile on the last dorsal segment of the abdomen. The 

 pubescence of the face, vertex, thoracic dorsum and ventral scopa is 

 iv holly black. The abdominal segments between the first and last 

 are shining, and present some short pile, wholly black except for an 

 occasional short pale hair. The pubescence of the legs is all black. 

 Punctuation ordinary, very dense on vertex and mesothorax ; basal 

 area of metathorax minutely roughened, not shining. Clypeus or- 

 dinary ; tegula? black. Wings pale fuscous; second submarginal 

 cell about as long as the first on the cubital nervure ; first recur- 

 rent nervure joining second submarginal cell at the end of its basal 

 sixth, second at the beginning of its apical sixth. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., 2 9, one June 30th (T. Kincaid); 

 Seattle, Wash., 4 9 , April 18th and May 11th (T. Kincaid). This 

 might be confused with nanula, but is easily separated by the char- 

 acters italicized. 



Osmia cyanella n. sp. 



9 . Length 9 mm., stoutly built, very broad, with a large sub- 

 quadrate head. The thorax is especially broad, the distance between 

 the wings being much greater than in tristella or nanula. The ab- 

 domen is suboval. Color of head, thorax and abdomen dark indigo 

 blue ; legs, antenna? and mandibles black. Pubescence, including 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 1897. 



PLATE IV. 



FOX. HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE V. 



KELLER. PLANT MONSTROSITIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE VI. 



PILSBRY. MOLLUSKS OF URUGUAY 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE VII. 



21. 



23. 



PILSBRY. MOLLUSKS OF URUGUAY. 




! 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE VIII. 





IPf" 







•^ 



y ; - 







V.'. 'T^P-" 



.vi'-T*:-'.-.'"^-' "^ r .:''^: 





##&/*. $>/ 



HEATH ON CRYPTOCHITON. 




4 



1 

 i 





■*W * Jm 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



ventral scopa, black, but there are some shining pale hairs along the 

 hind margin of the scut ellum, and sparsely on the abdominal dorsum ; 

 the extreme apex of the abdomen, the anterior edge of the clypeus, 

 and the outer surface of the mandibles exhibit some orange pile ; 

 the pubescence of the tarsi, especially the anterior ones, is also more 

 or less of a pale orange tint. The hairs of the face and vertex are 

 wholly black, and the tuft just behind the icings is black. Punctua- 

 tion ordinary, not quite so dense as in some related species ; ocelli 

 light yellowish, clypeus ordinary; tegulse shining black; wings 

 smoky ; second submarginal cell perhaps a very little longer than 

 first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second 

 submarginal cell slightly before the end of its basal third, second 

 very near its end. 



Hab.— Olympia, Wash., May 23, 1894 (T. Kincaid). Resembles 

 tristella, but easily known by the characters italicized. 



Osmia trevoris n. sp. 



9 . Length 8 mm., stoutly built, head quite large, abdomen short 

 and broad. The thorax is by no means so broad as in cyanella. 

 Head, thorax, and abdomen very dark blue, the two latter a slightly 

 greenish-blue, yet bluer than in nanula; legs, mandibles and anten- 

 na? black. Pubescence of head black, except some fulvous on occi- 

 put, hairs of face long, all black ; pubescence of pleura black, of 

 thoracic dorsum moderately dense, and orange-fulvous, with a few 

 dark hairs intermixed, not readily noticed ; tuft behind ivings orange- 

 fulvous; hairs of femora and tibiae short and black, or tarsi dull 

 fulvous ; dorsal pubescence of the abdomen entirely black, except a 

 thin, pale fulvous fringe along the hind margins of the segments, 

 only noticed in certain lights; ventral scopa all black. Punctua- 

 tion ordinary, punctures of vertex and mesothorax close but separ- 

 able. Clypeus ordinary ; tegulse black ; wings dusky hyaline, with 

 the broad outer margin and the upper part of the marginal cell con- 

 spicuously darker; second submarginal cell a little longer than first 

 on cubital nervure; first recurrent nervure joining second submar- 

 ginal cell at about the end of its basal third, second a very short dis- 

 tance before its tip. 



Hab.— Seattle, Wash., May 19, 1896 (Trevor Kincaid). This is 

 closely related to 0. nanula, but it is somewhat broader, with a 

 larger head, and lacks the pale pubescence at sides of face, while 

 the pubescence of the thoracic dorsum is dense and much more 

 highly colored ; the abdomen, also, is less globose. 0. trevoris re- 

 23 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



sembles a good deal in color and form 0. cerasi from New Mexico, 

 but it is smaller than that; the thoracic pubescence is by no means 

 so bright, and the dorsal abdominal pubescence of cerasi is entirely- 

 black, except on the first segment, where it is pale fulvous, usually 

 mixed with black. 



Osmia propinqua Cresson, 1864. 



I have before me 8 females, sent by Mr. T. Kincaid ; two from 

 Seattle, Wash., May 11 and 14, 1897, on Rubus ursinus; one from 

 Comas I., Wash., June 18, 1896, collected by N. L. Gardner; five 

 from Olympia, Wash., May 9 and 23, and June 1 and 2. 



Osmia subornata n. sp. 



9 . Length 14 mm., stoutly built, rather shiny, pure black; head 

 large, subquadrate, abdomen short and broad; pubescence of face 

 and vertex entirely black, with sometimes a few pale hairs about the 

 insertion of the antennas, of cheeks and pleura dark griseofuscous to 

 almost black, of thoracic dorsum black on disc, with a pale band be- 

 fore and behind, the anterior band not very distinct, reaching from 

 tubercle to tubercle, the posterior occupying the scutellum, and very 

 distinct, but having black hairs intermixed. The color of these 

 hair-bands is very pale ochraceous. A tuft of pale ochraceous hairs 

 behind the wings. Pubescence of legs entirely black, or a little 

 fuscous on anterior basis. Pubescence of abdominal dorsum black, 

 some rather obscure pale hairs on sides of first segment, and the 

 apex always noticeably clothed with appressed pale pubescence. 

 Ventral scopa entirely black. Punctuation strong, but rather sparse 

 for an Osmia. Inner orbits carinate; clypeus produced and very 

 broadly truncate ; mandibles very broad ; tegulae black ; tvings pale 

 fuscous, second submarginal cell about as long as first on cubital 

 nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second submarginal cell 

 a little before the end of the basal third, second near the tip ; spurs 

 of hind tibiae stout and curved at tips. 



Hub.— Olympia, Wash., June 1, 2 and 12 (T. Kincaid). This is 

 a submelanic representative of 0. bucephala and 0. megacephala, 

 having the same general structure and appearance. There is, how- 

 ever, no blue or green tint, and the pubescence is more black, and 

 the wings are quite dark. The apical tooth of the mandibles is 

 short. 



Osmia pascoensis n. sp. 



9. Length about 15 mm., stoutly built; black, the abdomen 

 with a perceptible blue tinge. Head large, but not so large as 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



thorax. Pubescence of head entirely black, except a yellowish- 

 ivhite fringe on occipital margin ; of thoracic dorsum cream-colored, 

 with longer black hairs intermixed ; of sides of thorax black ; a cream- 

 colored tuft on tubercles and one behind wings, but the hairs of 

 sides of metathorax below that black. Pubescence of legs black, 

 shining fuscous on inner side of anterior tarsi. Pubescence of first 

 abdominal segment cream-color, not mixed with black, of the re- 

 maining segments black, scopa wholly black. Tegulse black. Wings 

 dull hyaline, with the broad apical margin and the marginal cell 

 conspicuously darkened. Second submarginal cell a little longer 

 than first on cubital nervure; first recurrent nervure joining second 

 submarginal cell a little before the end of the basal third, second at 

 the beginning of the apical sixth. Punctuation strong and quite 

 dense on head and thorax ; sparse on abdomen. Anterior margin of 

 clypeus truncate, crenulated or ribbed, the sides of the truncation 

 sloping away, the angle at the corners a very obtuse one. Apical 

 tooth of mandibles very long, curved. Spurs of hind tibice rather 

 slender and straight. 



Hab.—Fasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid). Closely 

 allied to several species. From subor>uda it may be known by the 

 somewhat larger size, the blue tint of the abdomen, the long apical 

 tooth of mandibles, the straight and more slender spurs of hind 

 tibiae, the absence of the black dorsal pubescence of the thorax, etc. 

 From bucephala and megacephala by the smaller head, entirely 

 black pubescence of face, etc. : from nigrifrons by the larger size. 

 It agrees very nearly with Cresson's description of nigrifrons, and 

 may represent a northwestern subspecies of that insect. 



Osmia grandior n. sp. 



9 . Leugth about 16 mm. Closely resembles 0. pascoensis in all 

 respects but the following : Head smaller; clypeus dull and rough- 

 ened (in pascoensis shiny, with well sej:>arated punctures) ; apical 

 tooth of mandibles shorter ; two conspicuous brushes of orange hair 

 beneath the margin of the clypeus ; vertex with smaller and closer 

 punctures ; vertex and whole of thoracic dorswn covered with pale 

 fulvous hair, rather dense and not mixed with black ; brush of hairs 

 behind wings black ; metathorax tinged with bluish ; pubescence of 

 first abdominal segment black with pale hairs intermixed ; appressed 

 pubescence of last segment fuscous ; pubescence of first four tarsi 

 shining reddish fulvous; marginal cell and second submarginal 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



shorter; abdomen somewhat longer. The clypeus is quite ordinary, 

 its margin straight. 



Hab.— Olympia, Wash., May 10, 1894 (T. Kincaid). This would 

 be easily confused with pascoensis, if attention were not paid to the 

 details italicized. It is apparently the representative, in the north- 

 west, of the Colorado juxta and longula. The blue tint and the color 

 of the thoracic pubescence at once separates it from subornata. 



Osmia subpurpurea n. sp. 



$ . Length about 14 mm., relatively slender, dark steel blue, the 

 legs, antennae and mandibles black. Head subquadrate, rather 

 large, at least as broad as the thorax. Pubescence of face dull white 

 with a slight yellow tinge, with numerous black hairs intermixed ; of 

 cheeks pale ; of vertex long, thin and mostly black ; of thoracic 

 dorsum white with a slightly yellowish tinge, with longer black 

 hairs intermixed; of pleura sparse, dull white; of sides of meta- 

 thorax copious, white; of legs short and black, with some dull white 

 on femora behind, and dark fuscous on tarsi; of first abdominal 

 segment dull white and quite abundant; of remaining segments 

 very short, dark, hardly noticeable, except that the hind margins of 

 segments 2 to 5 present each a thin and narrow, but very visible, white 

 hair-band, and the short pile of the apical segment is pale. Ventral 

 scopa entirely black. Punctuation of vertex strong, but not so close 

 as to hide the shining surface ; of mesothorax very close, the surface 

 appearing roughened, dull and dark ; of abdomen minute and sparse 

 enough to leave a very shiny surface. Basal area of metathorax 

 dullish, with no high lights. Cheeks nearly twice as broad as eyes; 

 antennse short; clypeus ordinary, anterior margin straight; apical 

 tooth of mandibles moderately long ; hind spur of hind tibia stout, 

 and curved at tip ; outer end of middle tibia ending in an outwardly 

 projecting spine ; the same with anterior tibia? ; tegulse black ; wings 

 dusky ; second submarginal cell about as long (perhaps a little 

 shorter) as first on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure joining 

 second submarginal cell at about the end of its basal third, second 

 nearly at its end. 



Hab.— Olympia, Wash., May 25, 1894 (T. Kincaid). Larger 

 than 0. faceta, and differs by the formation of the clypeal margin, 

 etc. It is also allied to 0. purpurea, but differs in its much greater 

 size and in the pubescence. 



Osmia atrocyanea n. sp. 



9 . Length about 11 h mm., moderately robust, sides of abdomen 

 subparallel, head fairly large. Head, thorax and abdomen indigo- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



blue, with a greenish tint on, the dorsum of thorax and parts of the 

 abdomen ; legs, mandibles and antenna? black. Pubescence rather 

 tbin, entirely black except a very few scattered pale hairs near the 

 tubercles, on scutellum, and sides of metathorax, and rather more on 

 first abdominal segment. Ventral scopa entirely black. Punctua- 

 tion ordinary, punctures of raesothorax dense but not confluent, of 

 abdomen rather close but leaving a shining surface ; median line of 

 mesothorax distinct, basal area of metathorax moderately shiny ; 

 antenna? short ; clypeus ordinary, anterior margin entire ; apical 

 tooth of mandibles very short ; tegulae black ; wings smoky, paler 

 along the nervures ; second submarginal cell about as long as first 

 on cubital nervure ; first recurrent nervure reaching second submar- 

 ginal cell a little before the end of its basal third, second just after 

 the beginning of its apical sixth. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., July 4, 1896 (T. Kincaid). Seems near 

 to 0. brevis, but differs in the color of the pubescence, larger size, 

 etc. 



Osniia brevis Cress. 



An authentic Colo. $ specimen, sent by Mr. Fox, does not have 

 the head as large as one would imagine from Cresson's description. 

 The pubescence of the pleura is brownish-black. The abdomen is 

 of a fine dark shining indigo-blue. The second submarginal cell is 

 longer than the first on the cubital nervure ; the first recurrent 

 nervure joins the second submarginal cell somewhat before the end 

 of its basal third, the second quite near its tip. At Pasco, Wash., 

 May 25, 1896, Mr. T. Kincaid took a couple of $ , agreeing with the 

 Colorado insect, though having the second submarginal cell a little 

 shorter. At Olympia, Wash., June 24, July 7, etc., Mr. Kincaid has 

 taken in numbers a species like brevis, but with a more convex, very 

 shiny, dark prussian green abdomen ; I supposed it to be a different 

 species, but leave it for the present with this allusion. It is quite 

 possibly the 9 of inurbana or odontogaster. 



At Pasco, May 25, 1896, Mr. Kincaid also took a couple of males 

 which it seems safe to refer to brevis, although the $ of that insect 

 has not been described. The abdomen is indigo-blue like the $ , 

 but narrow and more shiny ; antennse wholly black, reaching about 

 to scutellum ; pubescence of face, vertex and thoracic dorsum yel- 

 lowish-white, rather copious ; of cheeks, pleura and sides of meta- 

 thorax black ; wings quite hyaline, except a slight stain in the 

 upper part of the marginal cell; dorsal pubescence of abdomen all 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



black except on first segment; ventral pubescence black, a pale 

 median patch just beyond apex of second segment; sixth dorsal 

 segment entire. This S is like 0. moniana from Pike's Peak, but 

 is separated by the entire sixth segment of abdomen. 



Osmia proxima Cresson. 



This is considered to be the $ of atriventris ; it was described 

 from Maine and British America. At Olympia, Wash., June 24, 

 1895, Mr. T. Kincaid took a $ which is evidently conspecific with 

 an authentic Canadian proxima sent by Mr. Fox. This insect will be 

 recognized by its small size, large head, short subglobose thorax and 

 abdomen, and shining dark blue-green color. The hind margins of 

 the abdominal segments are inclined to be edged with testaceous — 

 in the Olympia insect this is quite conspicuous. The antennas are 

 long, and the flagellum is more or less brownish or rufescent be- 

 neath. The tegulse are greenish in front. The wings are hyaline. 

 Sixth abdominal segment notched. 



Osmia faceta Cresson. 



9 . One collected at Olympia, Wash., June 2, by Mr. T. Kincaid, 

 agrees with an authentic Canadian example lent by Mr. Fox. It is 

 a little greener than that from Canada, but the specific characters 

 are the same. It is especially to be noted that while the ventral 

 scopa is black, there is white hair on the extreme lateral margin of 

 the abdomen, which may run along the margins of the dorsal seg- 

 ments a little way, forming rudimentary bands. The mandibles 

 have a conspicuous subapical band of orange-rufous hair. 



Osmia densa Cresson. 



I have before me an authentic 9 from Colorado, sent by Mr. Fox. 

 It is much like atrocyanea, but the pubescence of the sides of the 

 metathorax and of the tubercles is all white, while it is black in 

 atrocyanea. In densa the pubescence of the pleura is scanty and 

 white, in atrocyanea it is black. 0. atrocyanea has a larger thorax 

 and a somewhat larger head than densa. The following table sep- 

 arates a series of females having the general appearance of densa ; 

 in all, the ventral scopa is black. 



A. Pubescence of pleura, tubercles and sides of metathorax white. 



a. Pubescence of clypeus and sides of abdomen white . . faceta, Cr. 



b. Pubescence of clypeus black, sides of abdomen without conspic- 



uous white pubescence, though there are some white hairs, 



densa, Cr. 

 (0. densa was taken at Olympia, Wash., by Mr. T. Kincaid, 

 June 19.) 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



B. Pubescence of pleura black. 



a. Pubescence of scutellum black, with a few pale hairs intermixed, 



of sides of rnetathorax black ; head strongly blue, 



atrocyanea, Ckll. 



b. Pubescence of scutellum light, with, at most, a few dark hairs in- 



termixed ; head less blue, clypeus black or almost so, 



nigrifrons, Cr. 

 (An authentic specimen from Colorado, sent me by Mr. Fox ; 



one from Colorado Springs, Colo., sent by Prof. L. Bruner; 



one from Olympia, Wash., May 25, sent by Mr. T. Kincaid.) 



Synhalonia edwardsii (Cresson, 1878). 



This is evidently common at Olympia, Wash,, and is sent in num- 

 bers by Mr. T. Kincaid. Cresson describes only the $ ; the 9 is 

 from 14 to 16 mm. long, and differs from that of S. frater by its 

 mouse-colored thoracic pubescence and by the abdominal bands, 

 which, though very Avhite, are reduced to two, on the third and 

 fourth segments, that on the third interrupted in the middle. The 

 second segment has a small white patch on each extreme side. A 

 Seattle 9 has the thoracic pubescence ochraceous as m frater, but 

 the abdominal characters remain quite distinct. One Olympia 9 

 has an interrupted band on the second segment. Within what must 

 be considered the specific limits of S. edwardsii there are, in Wash- 

 ington State, two distinct types : — 



(a.) Race latior. $ . Facial quadrangle not far from a square, sides 

 of the clypeal yellow, gradually sloping above, distance be- 

 tween the yellow and the eyes quite considerable. Olympia 

 and Seattle. 



(b.) Race angustior. $ . Face conspicuously longer than broad. 

 Sides of clypeal yellow, above squarely notched, distance be- 

 tween the yellow and the eyes extremely small ; pubescence 

 somewhat paler. 9 . Smaller, with paler pubescence, abdo- 

 men with the white bands on the fourth and fifth (instead of 

 third and fourth) segments, that on the fifth fuscous in the 

 middle, but brilliant white at the sides, a white mark on each 

 side of third, apical segment white at sides. Wings clearer. 

 Pasco. The exact data are as follows : — 



Race latior. Olympia, 18 $ , April 24, May 2, 10, 11, 17, 21, 23, 

 25 ; June 5 ; 19 9, June 1, 5, 11, 18, 19, 21, 24, 25, 29, July 

 4. Seattle, 3 $, April 17, May 3 ; 2 9 , both May 19 (T. 

 Kincaid). Two Olympian 9 s are from Lupinus. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Race angustior. Pasco, 5 S , 2 9 , all taken May 25, 1896 (T. Kin- 

 caid). 



Synhalonia lycii n. sp. 



9 . Length 13 to 14i mm. ; general form, size and structure of 

 S. frater, which might be readily confused with it on superficial ex- 

 amination. On comparing lycii with an Illinois example of frater 

 received from Mr. Robertson, the following differences are at once 

 apparent : — 



S. lycii 9 • 



Segments 2 and 3 of abdomen 

 with light bands ; 4 and 5 sooty 

 black, without light bands, or at 

 most a very narrow apical gray 

 band on 4 ; apex with black 

 pubescence. 

 Ventral surface of abdomen Ventral surface of abdomen 



S. frater 9 . 



Segments 2-5 of abdomen with 

 distinct light bands ; apex with 

 light brown pubescence. 



with light pubescence. 



Wings noticeably brownish. 



with black pubescence. 

 Wings clear. 



The above are conspicuous and constant distinctions : yet the 

 head, thorax and legs of the two insects, with their pubescence, are 

 virtually the same. 



Hab. — S. lycii occurs in the Mesilla Valley, New Mexico, near 

 the Agricultural College ; on Lycium torreyi, on the College Farm, 

 April 16 ; on flowers of plum, College Farm, April 9. Miss Jessie 

 Casad took one on lilac in Mesilla, April 14. 



Calliopsis scitulus Cresson, 1878. 



Santa Fe, N. M., July 7 (Ckll. 1,356) ; Sta. Fe, July 25, on Cleome 

 serrulata (Ckll. 3,747). Also Colorado, collected by Prof. C. F. 

 Baker (No. l,595=Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 1895, and l,592=Fort Col- 

 lins, Aug. 8, 1895, on Cleome). 



In the specimens, Ckll. 1,356, the lateral marks of theclypeus are 

 almost lacking; as also in Baker's 1,592, which has only two spots 

 on the fifth abdominal segment. 



I am not sure about the $ of C. scitulus; the above records all 



pertain to females. At Sta. Fe, on the same day as 1,356, I took a 



$ which resembled, but was not identical with, 0. pictipes Cresson. 



Prof. Baker sends a $ taken at the same time and place as his 1,595 



above, and it agrees sufficiently with Cresson's description of picti- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



pes to be conspecific. At all events, I think, one may say, that the 

 $ of scitulus is either pictipes or closely similar to it. 



A 9 from Colorado (Baker l,599=Fort Collins, Aug. 15, 1895, 

 on Solidago canadensis) has the clypeus entirely black. 

 Calliopsis australior n. sp. 



The 9 of this so greatly resembles scitulus in every respect that 

 it was long held to be a variety of it, and 1 only now separate it on 

 observing that the differential characters are constant. The band 

 on the third abdominal segment, usually entire in scitulus, is always 

 interrupted, often quite widely ; the band on the fourth segment is 

 usually entire, being the only entire band ; the fifth segment is black, 

 with neither band nor spots; the lateral face-marks are always much 

 broader and shorter than in scitulus ; the clypeus always has a pale 

 stripe down the middle; otherwise the two insects are about the 

 same. It is to be remarked that australior partakes of the charac- 

 ters of the Californian C. edwardsii, which has the longitudinal 

 clypeal mark but not the hiteral marks on the clypeus, which are 

 common to australior and scitulus. C. edwardsii is also a larger in- 

 sect than scitulus, whereas australior is of the same size. 



The 9 of australior I found in numbers visiting the flowers of 

 Cleome serrulata at Albuquerque, N. M., Aug. 16 ; I also found it 

 on the sand hills at Mesilla, N. M., May 29, numerously visiting the 

 flowers of Dithyrea wislizeni Engelm. It also comes from Colorado, 

 collected by Prof. C. F. Baker (No. l,592=Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 

 1895, on Cleome). 



The Colorado form has the abdominal markings more yellow than 

 that from New Mexico. 



I am uncertain about the $ of australior, but Baker's 1,591 

 (Fort Collins, Aug. 8, 1895, on Solidago canadensis) may belong 

 there. It has the first joint of hind tarsus yellow, not greatly 

 broadened, and with no conspicuous tuft of hairs at the tip. The 

 face is all white below the level of the antennse, except a couple of 

 black dots on clypeus, and one at apex of each dog-ear mark. The 

 postscutellum and a transverse band on the scutellum are white. I 

 took a closely similar $ at El Paso, Texas, May 13, 1897, three 

 specimens. It has the face more narrowed below, and the abdomi- 

 nal markings more reduced than in the Colorado insect. It was 

 flying round Baccharis. 

 Calliopsis personatus n. sp. 



9 . Length 8 mm. This also is a sort of modified scitulus, but 

 the modification is in a different direction. The most obvious char- 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



acter is that the face is entirely black, although there remains a white 

 spot at the base of the mandibles. The abdomen has a spot on each 

 side of the first two segments, a broadly interrupted band on the 

 third, and an almost continuous one on the fourth, these markings 

 being white. The fifth segment, as in australior, has neither band 

 nor spots ; the apical pubescence is entirely white. For the rest, the 

 characters are practically as in sdtulus. 



Hab.— Pasco, Wash., May 25, 1896 (T. Kincaid). 



Calliopsis clypeatus Cresson, 1878. 



Cresson had only a single $ . Prof. C. F. Baker has taken both 

 sexes in Colorado (No. 1,581, on Laramie River, Larimer Co., 

 8,500 ft., July 19, 1895). The 9 is like the $ , except that the face 

 is wholly dark : the antenna? shorter, with the flagellum, after the 

 third joint, dull ferruginous beneath ; the abdomen broader, the 

 apical portion with white pubescence, and the extreme apex with a 

 broad, dense, ochreous brush. 



Calliopsis boylei Ckll., 1896. 



This is not rare at Santa Fe, New Mexico. It is also found in 

 Colorado, a specimen before me was collected by Prof. C. F. Baker 

 (No. 1,600). The Colorado form has a yellow line on the scape, and 

 a study of it leads me to believe that C. boylei is probably only a 

 variety of C. ornatipes (Cress., 1872). In the typical boylei from 

 Sta. Fe, the scape is entirely black. 



Calliopsis coloradensis Cress., 1878. 



Santa Fe, N. M., on flowers of Grindelia squarrosa, Aug. 1 (Ckll. 

 4,029) ; and in Mr. Boyle's garden, Aug. 10 (Ckll. 4,397). The 

 face-marks are slightly tinged with pinkish, and the lateral marks 

 do not go up so far as would seem to have been the case in Cresson's 

 type ; yet the identity is evident. The specimens are females. 



Calliopsis andreniformis Smith, 1853, subsp. rh.odopb.ilus n. subsp. 



$ . The legs, instead of being entirely yellow, have the femora 

 with the basal two-thirds nearly all black, and all the tibia? with a 

 black patch behind ; sometimes the four hind tibiae have a dark 

 shade in front ; the scape is entirely black, or may have a narrow 

 yellow line in front; the yellow is paler throughout; the thoracic 

 pubescence is more scanty and grayish-white rather than ochraceous ; 

 otherwise there is little or no difference. 



9 . The face-marks are cream-color ; no rudiments of dog-ear 

 marks . wings clearer. This subspecies is more distinct in the <? 

 than 9 . 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



Hab.— Santa Fe, N. M. ; females; July 27, 1895, at flowers of 

 Sphceralcea angustifolia ; Aug. 5, Aug. 14, Aug. 14, July 25 on 

 Sphceralcea angustifolia ; Aug. 19, 1894. Males: Aug., 1894; July 

 27, at flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia; Aug. 5, July 30, burrow- 

 ing in damp soil, I saw it enter, and dug it out from end of burrow. 

 Andrena kincaidii n. sp. 



9 14 mm. long, black ; head and thorax with short, dense, ochra- 

 ceous pubescence; abdominal segments 2 to 4 with more or less 

 broadly interrupted apical bands of pale ochraceous pubescence ; 

 apex densely fringed with orange-rufous pubescence. Femora black, 

 tibice and tarsi wholly ferruginous. Process of labrum truncate, 

 subemarginate. Clypeus with rather large, not very dense punctures, 

 and a median smooth longitudinal ridge or line. Mesothorax and 

 scutellum distinctly but not very densely punctured, the punctures 

 unevenly distributed ; basal area of metathorax rugose, ill-defined ; 

 abdomen distinctly and quite closely, though not deeply, punctured. 

 Antenna? wholly black. Tegula? rather dark testaceous. Wings 

 strongly tinged with yellowish-ferruginous, the apical portion gray- 

 ish, and the apex conspicuously blackish; nervures and stigma ferru- 

 ginous. Mandibles notched at end. 



$. About 11 mm. long, more slender, pubescence paler, some- 

 times becoming whitish, no bands on abdomen ; clypeus lemon-yelloiv 

 ivith hvo black spots ; antenna? wholly dark ; tibia? and tarsi all fer- 

 ruginous as in the 9 • Hind-margins of abdominal segments becom- 

 ing testaceous. 



Hab. — Olympia, "Wash., very numerous specimens of both sexes 

 sent by Mr. Kincaid. The dates for the females run from May 9 

 to June 29, for the males from May 25 to June 12. It is a very 

 distinct species, at once known by the characters italicized. Rarely 

 the 9 exhibits a yellow spot on the clypeus, in the median line not 

 far from the anterior margin. 

 Andrena saliciflaris n. sp. 



9 • About 11 mm. long, black, the pubescence brownish-ochra- 

 ceous. Head ordinary, face broad, facial quadrangle broader than 

 long, pubescence of face fairly abundant ; clypeus shining, but 

 strongly and rather closely punctured, with a rather strawberry-like 

 surface ; basal process of labrum rounded ; antenna? black ; vertex 

 with close shallow punctures, the surface minutely roughened ; 

 mesothorax dull, with tolerably close strong and very large punc- 

 tures, median and parapoidal grooves distinct ; scutellum with large 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



punctures, becoming smaller and very dense on its hindmost por- 

 tion ; enclosure of metathorax ill-defined, irregularly longitudinally 

 wrinkled ; pleura strongly and closely punctured ; tegular piceous ; 

 wings smoky-hyaline ; nervures and stigma very dark brown or 

 piceous ; legs with brownish-ochraceous pubescence ; basal joints 

 of middle and hind tarsi rather broad ; abdomen strongly punctured, 

 rather shiny, practically naked, except for some thin pubescence at 

 base of first segment, lateral grayish-white patches on hind margins 

 of segments 2 to 4-. representing very broadly interrupted bands, and 

 dense reddish- orange pubescence at the apex. Venter with three thin 

 hair bauds. 



$. Length 9 mm.; pubescence more abundant and rufous 

 throughout, of quite a bright tint. Face an antenna? wholly dark ; 

 band on fourth segment of abdomen entire, but very thin in the 

 middle, and, like the other abdominal markings, orange-rufous. 

 Abdomen not so closely or deeply punctured. 



Hab.— Olympia, Wash. (T. Kincaid). The ? May 9th ; the $ 

 April 4th, at willow blossom. In some respects this resembles A. 

 pruni Rob., but it is quite distinct. 



Ceratma nanula n. sp. 



S . Length 4£ mm., shining, very dark bluish-green, brassy-green 

 on the mesothorax. Legs concolorous except the tarsi, which are 

 dark brownish, the small joints of anterior tarsi dull ferruginous. 

 Antenna? very dark brown ; tegula? brown. Wings hyaline, nerv- 

 ures piceous. Tubercles, median third of labrum (but none of man- 

 dibles) and clypeal mark cream color ; the last is inversely T-shaped, 

 the upright portion very broad, and longer than the arms. Punc- 

 tuation ordinary, but the punctures of front and mesothorax large 

 and sparse, leaving shining impunctured areas in the middle of the 

 mesothorax and above the antennce. Abdomen ending in a short 

 point. Hind femora produced beneath to an angle slightly greater 

 than a right angle. 



Hab. — At flowers of Sphceralcea angustifolia, Las Cruces, New 

 Mexico, April 25th. 



Ceratina submaritima n. sp. 



$ . Length about or nearly 6 mm.; differing from nanula in its 

 larger size, longer antenna? (wholly black, or dull ferruginous be- 

 neath) ; the tubercles dark ; the clypeal mark with the upright por- 

 tion short, much shorter than the long lateral portions ; the tegula? 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



black ; the wings somewhat dusky ; the hind femora more pro- 

 duced below, the angle resulting less than a right angle. 



Hab. — Olympia, Wash., May 10th ; also April 25th, at Fragaria 

 (T. Kincaid). I have also before me a couple from Seattle, Wash., 

 May 13th, from Mr. Dunning, marked " Lot 214." 



The two species described above differ at once from dupla and 

 tejonensis in the $ , by having the abdomen terminated by a point ; 

 the last ventral segment in both tejonensis and dupla is broadly 

 rounded at the end. At one time I thought nanula might be C. 

 strenua Smith, but that cannot be, as Smith expressly states of 

 strenua, " seventh segment rounded at the apex." 



As regards the females, the distinctions are not so obvious. I 

 have what I suppose to be females of nanula from Juarez, Las 

 Cruces and Santa Fe, New Mexico; but except in being smoother 

 and more shining (like the $ ) they do not appreciably differ from 

 dupla, and it may well be that some of the larger examples (81 mm. 

 long, Sta. Fe, July) belong really to dupla, though of this I cannot 

 be sure until $ dupla has been caught at Sta. Fe. 



The 9 of C. submaritina, which Mr. Kincaid took in some num- 

 bers at Olympia, Wash., differs at once from the supposed 9 of 

 nanula in having the clypeus entirely dark, or at most with a very 

 small and obscure spot. C. acantha Prov., from Los Angeles, Calif., 

 is described only from the 9 ; it is too small for submarithna, its 

 clypeus is said to have a median testaceous line. 



Perdita sidae n. sp. 



$ . Length 4t to 5$ mm. Head and thorax very dark metallic 

 blue, obscurer and more inclined to greenish on mesothorax and 

 scutellum, shining ; the white pubescence moderately abundant. 

 Head large, subquadrate, broader than thorax, and considerably 

 broader than long ; cheeks unarmed, but occasionally produced be- 

 low into a prominent angle or incipient tooth. Clypeus broad and 

 low, of the Panama-hat type ; mandibles, except their dark tips, 

 labrum, and face up to the level of antenna? light yellow; supi'acly- 

 peal yellow area broader than long ; upper limit of the yellow im- 

 mediately lateral to the an tenure not as high as the top of the 

 supraclypeal mark, but only reaching to the lower level of the 

 antennal sockets, but rising as it approaches the orbit, to end at an 

 angle of about 45° slightly above the upper level of the antennal 

 socket. Antennoz wholly deep orange ; ocelli in a curve. Front 

 above level of antenna? with tolerably sparse but very distinct punc- 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



tures; vertex shining, microscopically sculptured with very sparse 

 punctures. Mesothorax sparsely punctured ; tubercles, aud hind 

 border of prothorax, more or less pale dull yellowish ; sometimes 

 this is hardly noticeable. Tegulae hyaline with a blackish spot ; 

 wings hyaline, stigma and nervnres white; stigma loug and well- 

 formed, marginal cell with its post-stigmatal portion longest, 

 squarely truncate at end, with a very fine appendicular nervure. 

 Secoud submarginal high, narrowed rather more than half to mar- 

 ginal; third discoidal distinct. Anterior tibioz and tarsi wholly 

 lemon-yellow, anterior femora yellow suffused with brown ; middle 

 tarsi whitish ; middle and hind femora and tibia?, and hind tarsi, 

 piceous ; the middle femora in front, and the middle and hind 

 knees, dull yellowish or whitish ; middle femora angled below. 

 Abdomen pale brown, the hind margins of the segments hyaline, 

 the venter dull brownish-orange. 



9 . Same size and form. Face wholly dark, except that the up- 

 per edge of the clypeus is dull whitish, this coloration very incon- 

 spicuous. Head not so large, transversely oval ; antennae shorter. 

 Scape black, flagellum dull broivnish-orange, infuscated at the base. 

 Legs piceous, anterior tibiae and tarsi obscurely dull yellow in front. 

 Abdomen piceous above and below, without markings. 



Hab. — Mesilla, New Mexico, June 7th and 9, 1897, on flowers of 

 Sida hederacea. They fly actively about the flowers, and in dull 

 weather I found the males at rest in the flowers. Six males were 

 taken, but only one 9 • 



P. sidaz S runs in my table of Perdita (Proc. Phila. Acad., 1896) 

 to the neighborhood of P. semicrocea, but it cannot be confused 

 with anything described, if attention is paid to the characters italic- 

 ized above. The 9 is equally distinct. In the shape of the head, 

 and the sexual difference in the color of the abdomen, P. sidaz re- 

 calls P. latior, but the marginal cell is entirely different. On June 

 7th, I took a single 9 of P. latior in a flower of Sida hederacea in 

 Mesilla ; it had probably wandered from an adjacent Sphozralcea, 

 as renewed search discovered no more of them. 



Perdita callicerata Ckll. 



9. Larger than the S, length about 5} mm., clypeus entirely 

 cream color, with the usual two black specks; lateral face-marks 

 transversely subreniforin, white, extending about as high as level of 

 top of clypeus ; antennae as in $ ; mesothorax darker and bluer ; legs 

 virtually as in $ ; lateral light marks of abdomen larger and squarer. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Hab. — Mesilla Valley, close to the Agricultural College, on flow- 

 ers of Baileya multiradiata, May 21, 1897, both sexes taken. The 

 $ I have described previously ; the species is quite remarkable for 

 having more light color on the face in the 9 than in the $ . The 

 9 of callicerata closely resembles the $ of albovittata, but differs at 

 once by the color of the antennae, the yellow anterior tibia?, etc.; 

 the face-marks of the two are almost exactly alike. 



Perdita larrese Ckll. var. modesta, n. var. 



$ . Like the type, but head not nearly so large, being only about 

 as big as the thorax. 



Hab. — Mesilla Valley, close to the Agricultural College, May 21, 

 1897, two at Larrea. 



Centris morsei n. sp. 



$. Length 21 mm., stoutly built, black, with pale ochraceous 

 pubescence, very dense on thorax. Clypeus bright lemon-yellow, 

 with anterior margin rufous ; labrum yellow ; mandibles dark 

 rufous with black tips ; scape without any yellow ; eyes sage-green, 

 suffused with crimson at the extreme base ; facial quadrangle longer 

 than broad, but of the broad type; wings dusky hyaline; tegulse 

 cream-color ; first abdominal segment with abundant pale pubes- 

 cence ; remaining dorsal segments uniformly and completely deli- 

 cately pruinose-pubescent, producing a grayish appearance; apical 

 margins of segments colorless or rather whitish-hyaline, extreme 

 base of third segment, and of second segment at sides ferruginous, 

 this ferruginous portion being overlapped by the white margin of 

 the segment before. Venter with dense yellowish-white hairs ; apex 

 with pale shining hairs, genitalia ferruginous. 



Compared with the $ of C. cazsalpinice, which it most resembles, 

 C. morsei is considerably larger, the thoracic pubescence inclines 

 more to mouse color, and the pruinose-pubescent abdomen with its 

 two more or less defined reddish bands is very different. In morsei 

 the hind tarsi have a black brush on the inner side, but the abund- 

 ant long pubescence is all ochraceous, not at all fuscous or blackish. 

 The long hairs of the anterior tarsi are blackish, though shining, 

 and appearing golden in certain lights. 



Hab. — Mesilla, New Mexico, bed of the Rio Grande, June 28, 

 1897. Taken by Mr. A. P. Morse. 




356 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



October 5. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



A paper entitled "Volcanic Rocks of Mesozoic Age in Pennsyl- 

 vania," by Edward Goldsmith, was presented for publication. 



October 12. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



October 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" A Revision of the Genus Synidotea," by James E. Benedict. 



" Reptiles from Sonora, Sinaloa and Jalisco, Mexico, with des- 

 cription of a new species of Sceloporus," by John Van Denburgh. 



"Contributions to the Herpetology of San Paolo, Brazil, I," by 

 Dr. H. Von Jhering. 



" Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of Brazil, 

 No. 3. — Sphegidffi (sens, lat.)," by William J. Fox. 



The death of William B. Bement, a member, was announced. 



October 26. 

 Mr. Arthur Erwin Brown in the Chair. 



Forty-six persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Geological Section from Moscow to Siberia and Return," by 

 Dr. Persifor Frazer. 



" Scaphopoda of the San Domingo Tertiary," by H. A. Pilsbry 

 and Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Mr. Daniel Baugh was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



NEW ACHATINID.E AND HELICIDiE FROM SOMALILAND. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The following descriptions are based upon material collected by 

 Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. Other mollusks presented to the Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia by the same intreped ex- 

 plorer belong to species already known. They represent so small a 

 fragment of the fauna of this interesting part of Africa that their 

 enumeration here may be dispensed with. 



Achatina chrysoleuca n. sp. 



Shell ovate, with conic spire, in general contour like A. variegata. 

 Solid and strong, though not very thick. White, with a thin golden- 

 brown cuticle, which is deciduous over the greater part of the shell, 

 remaining behind the aperture and in the depressions between longi- 

 tudinal plications elsewhere; later 1=] whorls immaculate, the next 

 earlier with spaced, somewhat zig-zag and rather broad brown 

 streaks, the next earlier narrowly streaked, the streaks straight. 

 Whorls of the spire soiled white. Whorls 62 (the apical whorls 

 truncated, perhaps 1 or I2 whorls being thereby lost), mod- 

 erately convex, the last quite convex. Surface shining, finely de- 

 cussated on the spire, the sculpture hardly visible to the naked eye, 

 and gradually becoming obsolete, the spirals lost on the latter 1£ 

 whorls, which are somewhat coarsely plicatulate. Sutures even 

 above, weakly and irregularly serrate below. Aperture a little ex- 

 ceeding half the length of the shell, pure white within, subvertical, 

 acuminate above, deeply excised by the body-wall ; outer lip rather 

 regularly arcuate, but less curved above, simple ; columella short, 

 cylindric, very deeply concave on the front and the side toward 

 aperture, abruptly truncated at base, delicate flesh-tinted ; parietal 

 wall with a thin, transparent varnish. Alt. 105, diam. 58 mm. 

 Longest axis of aperture 60, greatest width of cavity 33 mm. 



Tulu Didirko, in about lat. 4° 4' N., Ion. 39° 36' E., at 3,580 ft. 

 alt. (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, March 27, 1895). 



Type is No. 68,113, coll. A. N. S. P. It is an ivory-white shell, 

 with some inconspicuous marking on the spire. The cuticle is 

 largely deciduous. Nothing very nearly allied seems to be de- 

 scribed from this portion of the continent. 

 24 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Limicolaria Donaldsoni n. sp. 



Shell narrowly perforate, oblong-ovate, rather thin. Spire ter- 

 minating in a very obtuse rounded apex. Whorls slightly over 6, 

 quite convex, separated by deep sutures. Surface shining, finely 

 striated longitudinally, the stria? cut into oblong granules by decus- 

 sating spiral impressed lines, which become subobsolete on the last 

 whorl except below the suture where they persist, although weaker. 

 Aperture ovate, a little less than half the length of the shell, bluish- 

 white within ; outer lip thin and sharp ; columella straight in the 

 middle and above, slightly concave below, the columellar lip re- 

 flexed over the umbilicus. Color white under a very thin yellow 

 cuticle, with faint narrow, sinuous and interrupted brown streaks. 

 Alt. 39, diam. 20£ mm. ; alt. of aperture 17, width of cavity in the 

 middle 10 mm. 



The Haud (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, July 25, 1894). 



Type is No. 68,114, coll. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Of described 

 species, L. Beccarii Morel, seems to be nearest to this one ; but that 

 has the spire longer and less obtuse at apex, a stronger color-pattern, 

 etc. L. Donaldsoni is remarkable for the unusual convexity of the 

 whorls. None of the very numerous species described during the 

 last few years seem near to this form. 



Limicolaria Vanattai n. sj>. 



Shell very narrowly perforate, oblong-conic, compact, thin, white 

 under a thin yellow cuticle, variegated with many longitudinal, 

 almost straight, streaks of rich chestnut, rather close and narrow, 

 but with a few broad ones among them, the latter often wedge- 

 shaped, wider below ; the streaks neither branching nor zig-zag. 

 On the last whorl the longitudinal markings are to a great extent 

 coalescent or smeared together below the periphery, the darker 

 color predominating on the base. Sculpture : close and fine 

 costuhe cut into oblong granules by spiral impressed lines ; the 

 decussation fine and regular on the spire; but below, the spirals be- 

 come less regular and disappear on the latter part of the body 

 whorl and are wanting on the base, and the costulse on the last 

 whorl are coarser. Spire rather thick, conic, the apex very obtuse, 

 rounded ; suture moderately impressed, margined below by a light 

 line. Whorls 7 2, slightly convex, the last slightly attenuated be- 

 low. Aperture narrowly ovate, livid within, its height contained 

 2k times in alt. of shell; acuminate above. Columella cylindric, of 

 a purple-flesh color, distinctly convex in the middle, bending toward 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



the left as it approaches the base ; the reflexed edge adnate nearly 

 to base, where it is free, leaving a small umbilical perforation. 

 Length 56, diam. 26 ; alt. of aperture 25 mm. 



Sheikh Husein, lat. 7° 43' 32" N., Ion. 40° 44' 30" E., (Dr. A. 

 Donaldson Smith, Sept. 21, 1894). 



Somewhat like L. turris Pfr., but the columella is distinctly con- 

 vex instead of gently concave, and the apex is decidedly more ob- 

 tuse. It is also a smaller, less conic shell. The spire is longer than 

 in L. Ruppelliana Pfr. as figured by Jickeli. The narrow, straight, 

 not branching, color streaks are also characteristic. It is dedicated 

 to Mr. E. G. Vanatta. who kindly assisted me in examining the 

 literature of Achatinidce for the species herein described. 



Helicella (Lejeania) chionobasis n. sp. 



Shell very narrowly umbilicate, thick lens-shaped, low-conoid 

 above, flattened-convex beneath ; the periphery angular at first, be- 

 coming rounded ; rather thin but moderately solid, and slightly 

 shining. Conspicuously bicolored, the base being opaque 'white as in 

 Xerophiles generally, the top rust-brown with numerous irregular, 

 arcuate whitish streaks, the apex and several earlier whorls glossy- 

 black. 



Sculpture of irregular, low wrinkles of growth, with extremely 

 fine arcuate striae also above ; on the base eery minute incised circu- 

 lar strioz are visible under the lens in addition to the wrinkles. 

 Whorls nearly 6£, slowly increasing, slightly convex, a distinctly 

 defined whitish cord margining the sutures above, produced by the 

 keel of the whorls. Aperture mainly basal, lunate, moderately ob- 

 lique, bicolored within ; peristome simple, suddenly dilated at the 

 columellar insertion, partly covering the narrow umbilicus. Alt. 

 13, greatest diameter 19'5, least 18 mm. 



The Haud (Dr. A. Donaldson Smith, July 25, 1894). 



The italicized clauses in the above description sufficiently indicate 

 the more conspicuous features of this form, which is apparently 

 different from any member of the group Lejeania known to me. 



The permanence of the name Helicella for the group of Xero- 

 philes depends upon the date of publication of Ferussac's Prodrome, 

 which is still in doubt. It may prove later than Jacosta of Gray, 

 which would then assume the generic role. This is a mere question 

 of names, however. The limits and characters of the group I have 

 been able to define with considerable exactness, thanks to the 

 previous work of Schmidt, Moquin-Tandon, von Ihering and others. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



NEW AUSTRALIAN MOLLUSKS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The forms described below occurred in a recent sending received 

 from Dr. J. C. Cox, consisting mainly of marine mollusks he had 

 collected at Eden, on the coast of New South Wales, a catalogue of 

 which will probably be published by him elsewhere. In the pres- 

 ent scattered condition of the literature of Australian mollusks, 

 only omniscience can always escape the danger of overlooking some 

 description ; but reasonable care is believed to have been taken in 

 dealing with the following. 



Genus TATEA Tenison-Wpods. 



The relationships of Tatea seem to require examination. In the 

 Manuals of Fischer and Tryon it is placed under Jeffreysia as a 

 subgenus ; but it differs radically from this group in dentition and 

 operculum, and is also unlike it in shell characters. The Rissoina 

 group is that to which Tatea seems allied by its operculum ; and 

 Eatoniella Dall, with species in Kerguelen Island, South Georgia 

 and New Zealand, would apparently be the most nearly allied 

 genus, if judged by conchologic features only. 



Eatoniella 1 has an ovate, one- or few-whorled operculum with the 

 nucleus near the columellar margin, a process arising therefrom 

 directed toward that margin. The shell has 4J-6 convex whorls, 

 is thin, the peristome somewhat reflexed at the columellar margin, 

 and neither contracted nor indistinctly varixed as it is in Tatea. 

 The species are all quite small, the largest known being but 3 mm. 

 long. The dentition as described and figured by Schako in the 

 paper of Martens and Pfeffer cited above, has some peculiar feat- 

 ures. The rachidian tooth is practically as in Rissoa, apparently 

 with a basal denticle on each side situated low as in Rissoa, although 

 Schako does not make this clear. The lateral is as usual in the 

 group. The inner uncinus has as few or feiver denticles than the lat- 

 eral, and they are quite large. According to Schako's figures and 



x See E. A. Smith, Philos. Trans., Vol. 168, p. 174, and Martens and 

 Pfeffer, Jahrb. Ilarab. Wiss. Anstalten, 111, p. 9-4, 1886. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



the text on p. 94, there are three denticles on this tooth, but the 

 description on p. 96 gives five denticles. The outer uncinus has 

 seven denticles. The denticle formula of what Martens and PfefFer 



identify as Eatoniella kerguelenensis is, therefore, _ 7 , 5, 3 (?), 7. 



1-1 (?) 

 In Dardania Hutton, 2 which, so far as shell, operculum and rad- 

 ula go, is identical with Eatoniella, the dentition as figured by Hut- 

 ton agrees in essentials with that genus. Hutton's figure is rather 



diagrammatic. It shows no basal denticles, the formula being 5 t 



0-0 

 6, 3, 5 (?). This seems to agree essentially with Eatoniella, espe- 

 cially in the important and unusual character of the inner marginal 

 tooth, the cusp of which is remarkable for the small number and 

 large size of its denticles. The omission of basal denticles may be 

 an oversight. 



The inclusion of Dardania in Eatoniella seems from the data at 

 hand to be necessary. 



Now, in Tatea, the radula (PI. IX, fig. 8) is unequivocally Hy- 

 drobioid. Judging from it alone, if one were to ignore the shell 

 and operculum, it would be pronounced a Potamojiyrgus. It differs 

 in very important particulars from that of Eatoniella. The rachi- 

 dian tooth shows several well marked basal denticles inserted well 

 above the basal margin of the tooth, as in the freshwater genera. 

 The lateral is as usual above, and has the tongue-like process be- 

 low, noticed in many non-marine forms. The inner uncinus has 

 the scythe-like form usual in Hydrobia and its allies, with 15 to 20 

 minute denticles on the long cusp. The outer uncinus has still 

 finer denticulation. It will be seen that both the median and the 

 inner marginal teeth are quite different from the corresponding teeth 

 of Eatoniella, and altogether like those of Potamopyrgus and its allies. 



From these characters we would advocate the removal of Tatea 

 from the subfamily Rissoinino3, and install it in the Amnicolidm 

 (Hydrobiidce of Fischer), notwithstanding its aberrant operculum. 

 The union of Tatea with Eatoniella, which some authors have ac- 

 cepted, is altogether inadmissable ; and the genus, which is dedi- 

 cated to one of the most able of Australian zoologists, will stand as 

 one of the most isolated in its family. 



The figure represents the teeth of T. huonensis ; those of T. para- 

 disiaca are very similar. I have not examined the radula of T. 

 rufilabris. 



2 Trans, and Proc. N. Z. Institute, xiv, p. 147, pi. 1, f. K, 1-4, (1882) 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897, 



Tatea paradisiaca n. sp. PI. IX, figs. 10, 11. 



Shell narrowly pyramidal, the lateral outlines of the spire slightly 

 concave above, apex obtuse. Whorls about 7§ ; the nucleus 

 minute, the first whorl globose and relatively large, following whorls 

 but slightly convex, separated by linear sutures, the last whorl 

 either bluntly angular or rounded at the periphery, swelling in a 

 low varix behind the peristome, theu contracting, rather abruptly 

 falling or deflexed for a short distance in front. Surface shining, 

 showing excessively faint, fine spiral stria? in certain lights. Color, 

 rich reddish-chestnut, becoming a little paler on the spire, and with 

 the peristome of a decidedly darker shade. 



Aperture ovate, rounded above, vertical ; peristome obtuse and 

 thick, continuous. Umbilicus hardly perforated. Alt. 4'8, diam. 

 2 - 5 mm. ; alt. of aperture 1*5 mm. 



Eden, New South Wales, Australia, in a brackish swamp (Dr. J. 

 C. Cox, 1897). 



This species differs from T. rufilabris (A. Ad. 3 ) and T. huonen- 

 sis (Tenison-Woods 4 ) in being much broader in proportion to its 

 heighth, of a darker color, and with strongly developed lip varix. 

 The appearance of marginatum below the sutures, produced by 

 transparence, is more conspicuous in rufilabris and huonensis than 

 in our new species, and both of the former have the spire more at- 

 tenuated above. 



The species of Tatea may be tabulated as follows : 



a. Shell slender, the diameter less than one-half the height, 



b. Peristome very thick and heavy ; a keel defining the 



base, T. rufilabris A. Ad. (pi. ix, fig. 7). 



b'. Peristome rather thin throughout ; peripheral keel 



weak or wanting ; no varix behind the lip, 



T. huonensis T.-W. (pi. ix, fig. 12). 

 a'. Shell stouter, the diameter over half the height ; peri- 

 stome thick ; a low varix behind the lip, 



T. paradisiaca Pils. (pi. ix, figs. 10, 11). 



3 Diala rufilabris A. Ad., Ann. and Mag., Nat, Hist. (3), x, p. 298, 1862. 

 Type locality, Port Lincoln. See also Smith, P. Z. S., 1875, p. 538, where it 

 is referred to Hydrobia, and Journ. Linn. Soc. Lond., XVI, p. 268, pi. 7, f. 

 19 (as Tatea). 



4 By thirria huonensis Tenison-Woods, Proc. Roy. Soc. Tasmania for 1875, 

 p. 77; also for 1878, p. 71, and 1879, p. 72 (Tatea). Type locality, Huon 

 River, Tasmania. See also Petterd, Proc. Roy. Soc. Tasm. for 1888, p. 78, 

 pi. 2, f. 1 (as Tatea rufilabris). 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



T. rufilabris and T. huonensis have been united by Mr. Smith, 

 and the union has been accepted by Australian and Tasmanian 

 writers. The differences mentioned above seem constant in the 

 rather small series of each before me; so that I would suggest a 

 renewed comparison of Australian and Tasmanian specimens by 

 someone having abundant material, in order that Mr. Smith's 

 decision may be confirmed or reversed. The series before me is 

 hardly ample enough to justify an opinion adverse to that of so 

 fair minded an investigator as my honored confrere of the British 

 Museum, but is still sufficient to raise a doubt. 



Genus ADEORBIS Wood. 



Adeorbis sigaretinus n. sp. PI. IX, figs. 4, 5, 6. 



Shell much depressed, shaped somewhat like the flat Sigaretus 

 species, upper surface slightly convex, base broadly and deeply um- 

 bilicated ; thin, white. Whorls 4?, the first minute, brownish, 

 elevated, the others convex, rapidly widening, the last very wide, 

 rounded at the periphery and base, as well as on the umbilical mar- 

 gin. Sculpture, close and fine wrinkles of growth, somewhat irreg- 

 ular, and fine, crowded, thread-like spiral strise. Aperture large, 

 very oblique, subcircular, only slightly excised by the parietal mar- 

 gin ; peristome thin and simple. Alt. 2, greater diam. 4 - 8, lesser 

 3*8 mm., or slightly larger, diam. 5 - 5 mm. 



Rockhampton, Australia (Dr. J. C. Cox). 



A. sigaretinus differs from A. striatellus from New Caledonia in 

 the larger size, wider last whorl, open umbilicus without a border- 

 ing keel, and different ornamentation ; Montrouzier's species being 

 distinctly punctured along the strise in the specimens before me, as 

 stated in the original description. The absence of a constricting, 

 delicate umbilical keel is a very obvious point of difference. 



Genus CORBULA Bruguiere. 



Corbula Coxi n. sp. PI. IX, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Shell solid, strong and quite inequivalve, inequilateral, very ven- 

 tricose, the diameter nearly or quite equal to the height ; in fully 

 mature individuals, oblong, the beaks nearly central, anterior end 

 rounded, posterior end narrower, very obliquely truncated, much 

 narrowed below and projecting in a short truncate rostrum ; basal 

 margin moderately arcuate. Surface dull, whitish, with remnants 

 of a thin yellowish cuticle at the ends. Right valve somewhat 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



larger, projecting beyond and closely overlapping the left along the 

 whole basal margin. Both valves have the posterior area defined 

 by a keel. Sculpture rather fine, irregular wrinkles parallel to 

 growth lines, becoming coarser below, and obsolete toward the 

 beaks, where numerous spaced radial cannula;, linear and very del- 

 icate may be seen under the lens. Interior white, the right valve 

 with a high, triangular, recurved tooth fitting into a corresponding 

 deep process in the other valve. 



Length 18"5, height 11, diam. 11 mm. 



Length 17*5, height 11, diam. 9.3 mm. 



Sydney Head (John Brazier), and Eden, Twofold Bay, New 

 South Wales (Dr. J. C. Cox). 



This species is probably the C. nasuta of Angas' lists of Australian 

 mollusks, but it is not, in my opinion, the C. nasuta of Sowerby, 5 

 described from Xipixapi, west coast of Colombia. The latter is 

 smaller, adults before me measuring 7*5 to 10 mm. long, and the 

 beaks are somewhat different. In C. nasuta, as Reeve's figure 

 shows, the larger valve projects above beyond the smaller, while in 

 C. Coxi the two are nearly equal above. In C. nasuta the concentric 

 ribs are more prominent on the anterior end than in C. Coxi. The 

 posterior rostration is decidedly longer in C. nasuta. Sowerby's 

 types measured : long 0*7, lat. # 35, alt. - 4 inch. These differences 

 indicate specific distinction ; the very widely separated habitats of 

 the two forms also pointing in this direction. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX. 



Figs. 1, 2, 3. Corbula Coxi. Lateral, ventral and posterior views. 

 Figs. 4, 5, 6. Adeorbis sigaretinus. Anterior, ventral and dorsal 



views of the shell. 

 Fig. 7. Tatea rufilabris. Front view of shell. 

 Fig. 8. Tatea huonensis. Dentition. 

 Fig. 9. Tatea huonensis. Operculum, from within. 

 Figs. 10. 11. Tatea paradisiaca. Front views of two specimens. 

 Fig. 12. Tatea huonensis. Front view of shell. 



All figures variously enlarged, reproduced from camera lucida 

 drawings. 



5 Proc Zool. Soc. Lond., 1833, p. 35; Reeve, Conch. Icon., Vol. II, pi. 1, 

 fig- 1. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



365 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW SPECIES OF CEEION. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY AND E. G. VANATTA. 

 Cerion Fordii P. & V. Fig*. 1, 2. 



Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 5. 



Shell cylindrical, the latter three whorls of equal diameter, those 

 earlier forming a rather short, obtuse cone. Whorls 10 to 10£, 

 earlier two white, smooth, the following finely striated, stria? or rib- 

 lets evenly spaced though of variable closeness, in number 32 to 45 

 on the last or next to last whorl, not splitting or more numerous on 

 the base of the shell, which is rounded, not compressed ; umbilical 

 chink short, subperforate. Color: longitudinally mottled with 

 brown, ochre and snow-white ; sometimes uniform white. 



Aperture vertical or with the base somewhat advanced ; parietal 

 tooth about median, high, long and strong, extending backward 

 about four millimeters. Columellar fold very slight, situated high. 

 Peristome reflexed, its face much thickened ; light brown or whit- 

 ish ; parietal wall generally heavily calloused. 



Alt. 30, diam. of penult, whorl 12, alt. aperture 12? mm. 



Alt. 27, diam. of penult, whorl 12, alt. aperture 10£ mm. 



Alt. 28J, diam. of penult, whorl 11, alt. aperture 11 mm. 

 Var. submarmoratum P. & Y. Figs. 3, 4. 



Like the type except that it is ribless, smooth with slight growth- 

 wrinkles; sutures a little exserted and seam-like above. White, 

 unicolored or with irregular longitudinal dark fleshy brown stripes 

 and sometimes ochraceous stains. The first post-nepiouic whorl of 

 the cone is usually striated. Aperture typical. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Typical C. Forclii exactly resembles externally a coarsely sculpt- 

 ured form of G. Dalit from Inagua; but it has the internal armature 

 of Strophiops or Maynardia. It is a coarser, larger shell than C. 

 eximeum of Cat Island and New Providence, with far stronger 

 development of peristome and teeth and more interrupted strigation. 

 C. Fordii has not the raised ledge across the parietal wall of C. 

 glans varium, from New Providence, has stronger peristome and 

 teeth, and is larger. 



The pure white form C. Fordii resembles C. abacoense, but is less 

 stout in the average, has a liver-tinted mouth and lip, and the parie- 

 tal tooth is notably longer and stronger. 



Var. submarmoratum is a larger shell than C. marmoratum, 

 stouter above, and with a much more developed parietal tooth. It 

 has not the expanded umbilical area of C. regina eucoxmium, of 

 Turk's Island. 



White specimens of this variety are very similar to C. eleutherce, 

 but do not taper gradually as that species, the angle of obliquity of 

 the aperture is different, etc. 



Several hundreds of this species were obtained by Mr. John Ford 

 from a barrel of shells from the Bahamas, exact island unfortunately 

 unknown. On comparison with the nearly complete series of Cer- 

 ion in the collection of the Academy it is evident that a new poly- 

 morphic species is before us, probably from an island or region of 

 an island hitherto unexplored for this genus. Both the striate and 

 smooth forms occurred either white or strigate, and so far as we 

 can judge in nearly equal numbers. Transition forms are fully 

 represented, though probably 95 per cent, of the specimens are either 

 the one or the other. 



Cerion Pillsburyi P. & V. Fig. 5. 



Shell tapering subcylindrical, the later three whorls of nearly 

 equal diameter, those above forming a rather long cone, which 

 passes very gradually into the subcylindrical portion ; apex very 

 obtuse. Whorls 10 to KH, the nepionic smooth, next whorl sharply 

 finely striate or smoothish ; all succeeding whorls except the last one- 

 half to two, flat and smooth with some growth-lines only ; last one- 

 half to two whorls regularly costulate, riblets narrower than the 

 intervals, about one millimeter apart. Base rounded, not com- 

 pressed ; umbilical chink very short, imperforate. White with irre- 

 gular, interrupted brown or gray-brown streaks. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



Aperture vertical ; parietal tooth very small, weak and short ; col- 

 uruellar fold distinct, extending inward one whorl. Peristome well 

 reflexed, whitish, rather thin or thickened ; parietal callus moderate 

 or very thin. 



Alt. 29, diam. of last whorl above aperture 11-12 ; alt. of aperture 

 11 mm. 



Alt. 285, diam. of last whorl above aperture 11 ; alt. of aperture 

 10 mm. 



Gun Cay, Bahamas (Dr. Wm. H. Rush, U. S. N.). 



The rather long and gradually tapering cone, smooth surface 

 above, the last one or two whorls ribbed, and very small parietal 

 tooth, are the most prominent features of this species. Its resem- 

 blance to C. regina eucosmium is remarkable ; but the small area 

 behind the columellar lip, with short rimation and rounded base, 

 distinguishes it at once from that form. It is superficially not far 

 from some of the Cayman Is. species, but has not the strong and 

 long parietal tooth of those forms. 



At the request of Dr. Rush this species is named in honor of 

 Lieutenant-Commander John Elliott Pillsbury, of the U. S. Coast 

 Survey Steamer " Blake." 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897, 



ON THE ANNUAL MOLT OF THE SANDERLING. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



In March, 1896, Mr. Frank M. Chapman published a paper en- 

 titled " The Changes of Plumage in the Dunlin and Sanderling," * 

 his object being chiefly to controvert the theory of Gatke and others 

 that these and other birds acquired their nuptial dress by an 

 actual change in the color of the feathers of the winter plumage. 



Mr. Chapman demonstrates conclusively, with the aid of a large 

 series of specimens, that this change is effected by an absolute re- 

 placement of the old plumage by new and differently colored 

 feathers. 2 In the case of the Sanderling, Calidris arenaria, Mr. 

 Chapman describes the plumage changes of the bird in some detail, 

 and in speaking of the annual molt says : — 



" There is no reason to doubt that the Sanderling, like other 

 birds, undergoes a complete molt after the breeding season ; never- 

 theless, not one of my twenty August specimens shows any signs of 

 molt in progress in the wings or tail. In the larger number, how- 

 ever, the remiges and rectrices are in an apparently fresh and un- 

 worn condition, and I assume that in most cases these important 

 feathers are acquired before the migration is begun. This would be 

 in July, a month which, as I have said, is not represented in my 

 series." 



At the time this was published I agreed quite as fully with this 

 view as I do with the other conclusions reached by the author in 

 his admirable paper, but specimens recently submitted to me by my 

 friend Mr. William L. Baily, taken at Cape May, N. J., August 14th, 

 1897, show the flight feathers in full molt, and prove that the molt 

 of these feathers does not akvays take place before the migration, 

 while subsequent examination of additional material leads me to 

 think that in the large majority of cases they do not begin to molt 

 until the migration has begun. 



These Cape May specimens also tend to emphasize a fact which 

 Mr. Chapman has curiously enough stated in the sentence imme- 

 diately preceeding the one above quoted, and which all who have 

 studied molts know to be only too true, viz. : " the necessity for 



1 Bull. Araer. Mus. Nat. Hist., Vol. VIII, pp. 1-8. 



2 The author pointed out the same fact independently in a paper which ap- 

 peared April 14, 1896. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1896, p. 125. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



large 9eries in studying the molt and the erroneous conclusions which 

 may be drawn from negative evidence." 



In investigating the annual molt of the Sanderling, I had before 

 me a series of sixty-seven skins taken from May to November, in- 

 cluding besides those in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, a series from the U. S. National Museum 

 and the American Museum of Natural History, kindly loaned by 

 the authorities of these institutions. 



The series of spring specimens which I have examined serves but 

 to substantiate Mr. Chapman's account of the spring molt, and is 

 not concerned with the present paper. 



My series may be grouped as follows : — 



Birds of the year in first plumage, 19 (Aug. 26th to Oct. 20th). 



Birds of the year showing molt of the body feathers, 9 (Sept. 29th 

 to Nov. 10th). 



Old birds in nuptial plumage, 8 (May 21st to Aug. 14th). 



Old birds showing molt, 28 (Aug. 2nd to Oct. 31st), 8 of which 

 (Aug. 14th to Oct. 31st) show molt in the primaries. 



Old birds in full winter plumage, 3. 



The birds of the year, as is well known, molt the body plumage 

 in the autumn and the black and white feathers of the back and 

 head are replaced by light gray as in the winter adults. 



The following table shows the progress of this molt : — 



U. S. N. M., 106,443, Romney, Eng., Aug. 29th, one or two gray 



feathers. 

 A. M. N. H., 54,698, Devon, Eng., Sept. 10th, one or two gray 



feathers. 

 A. N. S. P., 34,169, Beach Haven, N. J., October, about 25 gray 



feathers. 

 U. S. N. M., 128,796, Aldabra Isl., Africa, Nov. 10th, about half 



the feathers gray. 

 U. S. N. M., 41,774, Merida, Yucatan, about half the feathers gray. 

 A. N. S. P., 34,873, Wolfville, N. S., Sept. 29th, gray feathers pre- 

 dominating. 

 U. S. N. M., 81,754, Ventura, Cal., Nov. 2d, molt complete. 



Other specimens from Wolfville, N. S., taken Sept. 29th, and one 

 from Havre, France, Oct. 20th, have not begun to change. 



This shows the great variation in the time of the molt. 



Some species of birds molt their remiges and rectrices with the 

 first body plumage, but none of the specimens examined show any 

 evidence of such molt in the Sanderling. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The possibility that some of the specimens described below which 

 show molt in the primaries were birds of the year was considered, 

 but all the evidence seemed to point to their being adults. 



I feel convinced that the black tips to the wing and tail coverts 

 will serve to distinguish birds of the year as pointed out by Mr. 

 Chapman, even after the black and white feathers of the back and 

 head have been entirely replaced, as they are still retained in birds 

 that have entirely finished the molt. 



The specimens illustrating the annual molt of the adults may be 

 arranged as follows : 



A specimen from Glacier Valley, North Greenland, taken June 

 14 (A. N. S. P., 30,197), shows the full nuptial plumage as do other 

 specimens from Cape May, N. J., May 21st to June 13th. 



One from Cape May, August, 14th is in worn nuptial plumage 

 with one or two gray feathers on the back, but no further sign of molt. 



Eighteen other specimens (Aug. 2d to Sept. 11th) show a varying 

 amount of gray feathers in the plumage of the upper surface, giving 

 them a mottled appearance. In all of these the spotting on the 

 breast is still perceptible, and in at least half of them scarcely any 

 molt has occurred in this part of the plumage. In none of them is 

 there any molt in progress in the wing or tail, even the wing cov- 

 erts being in every instance the worn nuptial plumage. 



The primaries show great diversity as to abrasion, some being 

 much worn and bleached to a dull brownish tint, while others are 

 much blacker and comparatively so fresh looking that Mr. Chap- 

 man considered them to be newly acquired feathers. 



As stated below, however, I am inclined to consider them as be- 

 longing to the old nuptial plumage. 3 



3 In this connection attention .should be called to the fact that in the Dunlin 

 ( Tringa alpina pacifica) the primaries are molted in June, (!) as is shown by 

 everv individual in a series of four collected in Alaska by Dr. Benj. Sharp, 

 June 28-29, 1895 (Coll. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila.). There is no trace of such 

 a molt in the only breeding Sanderling that I have been able to examine, 

 while we have positive evidence that some Sanderlings molt the primaries in 

 August (see below). 



Therefore, if the comparatively fresh appearance of the primaries in some 

 of our mottled August birds indicates that they are newly acquired feathers, 

 we must admit that there are two styles of molting in this one species, which 

 seems unlikely — i. e., in some individuals a molt (in June or July) of the re- 

 miges, completed before the molt in the coverts or body plumage begins ; and 

 in others a molt (in August) of all the feathers, the remiges beginning when 

 the body plumage is about half renewed. 



A series of Knot taken in Greenland during June and July show no such 

 molt as is exhibited in the Dunlin. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



The specimens included in this mottled series are as follows: — 



A. M. N. H., 35,752, etc., 8 specimens, Chatham, Mass., Aug. 27th. 

 W. S., 1,573, Cape May, N. J., Sept. 11th. 



U.S. KM., 59,714, Tehuantepec, Mex., Aug.5th. 



A. N. S. P., 33,744, 34,168, 2 spe'm'ns, Beach Haven, N. J., Aug. 21 . 

 U.S. N.M., 30,310, Spanishtown, Jam., Aug. 20. 



U.S.N.M., 94,714, Hyde Park, 111, Aug. 20. 



U.S.N.M.,111,789, White I., Canada Bay, Aug. 2. 



U.S.N. M.,124,587, Pt. Lookout, Sept. 8th. 



U.S.N.M., 1,011, Devon, Eng, Aug. 26th. 



A. M. N.H., 51,171, Rockaway, L. I., Aug. 4th. 



The next series of eight birds shows the continuation of the molt. 

 In all of these the gray predominates on the back, many of them 

 being practically like winter birds, having lost nearly all the old 

 body feathers. In all, however, the molt is in progress in the 

 remiges, and in most cases in the rectrices also, while in all but the 

 most advanced, remains of the old wing coverts may be seen in 

 varying quantity. 



These birds in detail are as follows : — 



This shows great variability in the time of completing the molt 

 and the relative progress of molt in different parts of the plumage. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



One point which seems to be borne out by all the specimens is 

 that the body plumage is pretty well renewed before the remiges be- 

 gin to molt, and that consequently the molt of these feathers occurs 

 after the bird starts on its migration. 



If, as Mr. Chapman assumed, the mottled birds which showed no 

 trace of molt in the remiges and rectrices, had already renewed these 

 feathers, we would have a condition contrary to that found in any 

 group of birds which I have examined, i.e., the completing of the 

 molt of the remiges before the molt of the coverts begins. 



Better evidence, however, is to be found in the fact that in some 

 of the molting specimens above described the primaries that are be- 

 ing replaced are quite as fresh as those in the mottled birds already 

 mentioned. 



Why there should be this great difference in the wear of the 

 remiges I am unable to say ; and I am equally at a loss to account 

 for the peculiar appearance of some birds in which the two outer 

 primaries are in a wonderfully better state of preservation than the 

 inner ones, the difference between the second and third being very 

 marked. All the evidence so far seems to point to the same order 

 of molt in the feathers of the wing of these birds as is seen in the 

 Passeres.* 



Two specimens given in the above table deserve special comment. 

 The Margarita Island specimen is remarkable from the fact of its 

 capture so far south at so early a date (July 7), as well as in having 

 so nearly completed its molt. It may, perhaps, have been a wounded 

 or diseased bird that did not migrate northward in the spring. 6 



The other specimen is the one from Tambo Valley, Peru, October 

 31st (U. S. N. M., 102,064), which has completed the body molt 

 while the remiges are just beginning to change. 



* See Stone, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1896, p. 112. 



5 For note on the capture of this specimen (No. 151,633, U. S. N. M.), see 

 Proc. U.S. N. M., 1895, p. 656. 



A specimen of Ereunetes occidentalis taken in San Domingo by Dr. W. L. 

 Abbott, July 11, 1883 (No. 26,158, A. N.S. Phila.), is almost exactly like this 

 as regards the state of its plumage, all the plumage being gray with the mid- 

 dle rectrices renewed and only the five outer primaries of the summer plum- 

 age remaining. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE HYMENOPTERA OF BRAZIL, 

 NO. 3. SPHEGID2E (sens. lat.). 



BY WILLIAM J. FOX. 



This paper forms a continuation of the reports on the collections 

 of Hymenoptera made by and belonging to Mr. Herbert H. Smith. 

 At least one more paper will follow, on the Thynniidse, which will 

 also contain some additions to the earlier reports. 



Ampulex trigonopsis Sm. 



A single specimen from Chapada (October), I doubtfully refer to 

 this species. It agrees with Smith's description, but there are two 

 large teeth on each side of the projecting carina of the clypeus, of 

 which Smith makes no mention. 



Sceliphron {Trigonopsis) rufiventre Fabr. 



Five specimens from Maruru (April) and Santarem. 



Sceliphron (Podium) denticulatum Sin. 



Chapada (December) ; Santarem. Two specimens. 



Sceliphron (Podium) consanguineum Sm. 



Two specimens from Chapada (March) and Rio de Janeiro (Oc- 

 tober) are doubtfully referred to this species. 



Sceliphron ( Podium) flavipenne Lep. 



Two specimens, 9 • Rio de Janeiro (November) and Santarem. 



Sceliphron (Podium) romandinum Sauss. 



Two examples of this fine species. Santarem (September). 



Soeliphron (Podium) haematogastrum Spin. 



Fourteen 9 and thirteen $ specimens. This species is quite 

 distinct by red legs and abdomen. The latter, however, becomes 

 quite dark in some specimens, and the petiole is sometimes black 

 and varies a little in length ; the point of reception of the recurrent 

 veins by the second submarginal cell is not constant. 



Three specimens differ by having the wings subhyaline, not yel- 

 low, and may prove distinct. Perhaps they represent Saussure's 

 Podium egregium. 

 25 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Sceliphron fistulare Dhlb. 



Six specimens. Pedra Branca and Maruru (April) ; Chapada. 

 Sceliphron figulum Dhlb. 



Two specimens. Corumba and Uacarizal (February). 

 Ammophila opulenta Guer. 



A large series of this species from various localities. It is dis- 

 guished by its large size and strong tubercle of mesopleura. The 

 male has the clypeus prominently produced into a tooth, and 

 together with the face, covered with golden pubescence. It is best 

 distinguished by the strongly tuberculate mesopleurse. 



Ammophila miliaris Cain. 



Twelve male specimens. Chapada (January to March) ; Santa- 

 rem. Greatly resembles opulenta, but the mesopleurse not tubercu- 

 late and clypeal prominence shorter. 



Ammophila abbreviata Fabr. 



A large series of both sexes. 

 Ammophila aureo-notata Cam. 



One female and nine male specimens. Chapada (March, April) ; 

 Corumba and Pedra Branca (April) ; Santarem. 



Ammophila moneta Sm. 



Four female and five male specimens. Uacarizal (February) ; 

 Pedra Branca and Chapada (April) ; Santarem. 



A female and five males differ only in the sides of petiole and 

 base of second segment diffused with reddish, and are no doubt A. 

 ragilis Smith. Moneta and fragilis are evidently one species. 



Ammophila asperata n. sp. 



9. — Head with strong scattered punctures; clypeus medially 

 finely punctured, its fore margin broadly and squarely truncate in 

 middle ; fore ocellus separated from the posteriors by a distance 

 equal to less than half that between the latter ; space between hind 

 ocelli equal to less than two-thirds of that between them and eyes ; 

 first joint of flagellum a little shorter than the two following united ; 

 pronotum slightly excised medially; dorsulum coarsely punctured, 

 but still not unevenly, posteriorly with several coarse transversely 

 sinuous striae, and sulcate down middle for its entire length ; scu- 

 tellum longitudinally striate ; postscutellum rugose ; upper surface 

 of middle segment sulcate, rugose medially, the rugae running into 

 fine even striae laterally ; side of thorax rugoso-punctate, the meso- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



pleurse not tuberculate, with an \- -shaped furrow ; petiole composed 

 of two joints ; wings subhyaline, apices broadly darker, second 

 submarginal cell subtriangular, narrowed more than one-half above, 

 the first recurrent vein received near the middle, the second near 

 apex. Entire insect deep black, abdomen velvety; face and 

 clypeus with sparse fuscous pile ; spot on tubercles and large one at 

 each side of apex of middle segment, bright silvery. Length 22 mm. 



$ . — Face and clypeus densely golden ; clypeus drawn out into a 

 median prominence, which is short and obtuse, and before which 

 the clypeus is visibly depressed ; space between hind ocelli nearly 

 equal to that between them and eyes ; dorsulum with rather dense 

 pale pile, and, in addition, with a short, erect, pale fuscous pubes- 

 cence ; thorax sculptured as in the 9 5 tegulse silvery anteriorly. 

 Length 22 mm. 



Chapada (March). Three specimens. Has the general appear- 

 ance of abbreviate/,. 



Sphex (Ohlorion) hemiprasinus Sichel. 



Chapada (October). Three specimens. 

 Sphex (Chlorion) cyaniventris Guer. 



One specimen ; same locality and date as the preceding. 



Sphex {Isodontia) nigrocaeruleus Tasch. 



Nine 9 , three S specimens. Chapada (March, April). 



Sphex {Isodontia) costipennis Spin. 



Five 9 , nine $ specimens; Chapada (February, March) ; 

 Maruru and Pedra Branca (April) ; Santarem. 



Sphex [Isodontia) laevipes n. sp. 



9 . — Black, with grayish pubescence ; face, clypeus, thorax be- 

 neath, hind coxse, an oblique line on sides of middle segment (some- 

 times absent) extending to insertion of petiole, silvery ; tegulse, legs 

 entirely or in part, petiole (the latter sometimes black) wine 

 colored ; wings fusco-hyaline, costal half much darker ; clypeus 

 bidentate, with long, sparse, pale hairs; eyes converging toward 

 mandibles, the latter bidentate ; space between hind ocelli nearly 

 equalling that between them and eyes ; first joint of flagellum not 

 quite as long as the two following united ; dorsulum and scutellum 

 with distinct, separated punctures ; middle segment rather coarsely 

 granulated ; the mesopleurce with coarse punctures ; legs compara- 

 tively scarcely spinose, spines of fore tarsi short; petiole about as 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



long as the first three hind tarsal joints; last ventral segment con- 

 vex. Length 17-18 mm. 



$ . — Colored like the 9 ; but in one example the thorax except 

 dorsulum, is more or less wine colored ; clypeus more convex, its 

 apex broadly incurved, silvery pubescence denser; first joint of fla- 

 gellum nearly as long as two following united ; scutellum impressed 

 medially. Length 18 mm. 



Uacarizal (February) ; Chapada (March). Three 9 , one $ 

 specimens. S. laevipes is probably the form mentioned by Kohl a& 

 a dark variety of S. costipennis, his specimen, a $ , having come 

 from Rio Grande do Sul. It differs from costipennis not only in 

 color, but by the smoother legs, longer petiole of 9 , etc. 



Sphex (Isodontia) azteca Sauss. 



One specimen, a S . Chapada (March). 

 Sphex caliginosus Er. 



Fifteen 9 , 22 $ specimens. Chapada (March, April) ; Santa- 

 rem. 



Sphex fuliginosus Klug (=conyener Kohl). 



A large series of females. Chapada (March, April). 

 Sphex Servillei Lep. (=latior Er. —roraHis Kohl). 



I have no doubt that latior is identical with Servillei. The large 

 series present, indicates a common occurrence. Chapada (January^ 

 March, April) ; Santarem. Ninety-one specimens, of which only 

 five are females. 



Sphex funestus Kohl. 



Chapada (March, April) ; Corumba (May) ; Santarem. Four 

 specimens. 



Sphex neotropicus Kohl. 



Chapada (March, April) ; Santarem. Three female, two male 

 specimens, one of the latter with reddish fore legs. 



Sphex ingens Sni. 



A single male of this huge species, without particular locality or 

 date of capture. 



Sphex melanopus Dhlb. {—ruficavda Tasoh.). 



Three specimens. Uacarizal (February) ; Corumba (May). 

 Sphex hrasilianus Sauss. 



A single specimen of the var. tinctipennis Cam. Chapada 

 (April). 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



Sphex flavipes Sm. 



One 9 , six male specimens of the var. Iheringii Kohl. Chapada 

 (February, March). 



Sphex ichneumoneus Linne. 



Four specimens of the typical form from Santarem (February) 

 and Maruru (April). Three of the var. dorsalis from same locali- 

 ties. Over thirty of the var. sumptuosus collected from February to 

 April. 



Sphex duhitatus Cress. 



The geographical distribution of this species is extended consider- 

 ably by three specimens in the present collection, collected at Cha- 

 pada (February, March) and Corumba (April). There is also a 

 specimen in the collection of the American Entomological Society 

 marked Mexico. 



Four specimens, which may be the $ of this species, have the 

 pubescence denser and more golden, particularly on head in front ; 

 antennae rather long and slender, first joint of flagellum about as 

 long as second and three fourths of third joint united ; face much 

 narrower than in ichneumoneus; petiole about as long as second and 

 third hind tarsal joints united ; legs more or less black ; abdomen 

 with more or less black blotches above ; last ventral plate triden- 

 tate apically, the central tooth prolonged, with a carina which runs 

 almost to base of segment, laterally the segment bears a bunch of 

 long yellowish hairs, somewhat concealing the lateral teeth. Length 

 17-18 mm. 



Corumba and Pedra Branca (April). 



Sphex ferrug-ineipes n. sp. 



$ . — Head and thorax black, with pale, not dense pubescence ; 

 face, clypeus at sides, line on pronotum, sides of dorsulum and spots 

 on sides of thorax and at apex of middle segment with silvery pile ; 

 mandibles, except apex, tegula?, legs, except coxse, and base of tro- 

 chanters, and abdomen, except petiole, entirely, or in part, bright 

 red ; eyes but slightly converging beneath ; face somewhat narrower 

 than in ichneumoneus; clypeus convex, emarginate medially, hav- 

 ing the appearance of being bidentate, or entire, front distinctly 

 punctured; space between hind ocelli about equal to that between 

 them and eyes; dorsulum with rather strong separated punctures, 

 those of mesopleurse finer and evener; middle segment above with 

 a transverse, indistinct striation ; tarsal comb well developed, the 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



first fore tarsal joint with six to seven spines ; petiole black, shorter 

 than combined length of second and third hind tarsal joints; abdo- 

 men above and beneath with a distinct, sparse punctuation ; wings 

 subhyaline, not yellowish, apical margins broadly darker. Length 

 20-22 mm. 



$ . — Colored and clothed like the 9 , the fore margin of the cly- 

 peus in addition being sometimes reddish ; space between hind 

 ocelli a little greater than that between them and eyes; first joint 

 of flagellum shorter than the second and third united, the second a 

 little shorter than the third ; last ventral plate indistinctly carinated 

 down middle, its apex prolonged triangularly in the middle. Length 

 19-21 mm. 



Chapada (March, April, October) ; Corumba (April). Three 



9 , 10 <? specimens. Distinguished from ichneumoneus, dubitatus, 

 etc., by sparser pubescence, bright red of abdomen, strongly punc- 

 tured dorsulum (and clypeus in 9 ), shape of last ventral plate in 



$ , etc. 



Sphex {Priononyx) Thomae Fabr. 



Quite a large series of both sexes from various localities, collected 

 in the months of February, March, April, June, September. 



Sphex {Priononyx) bifoveolatus T;iscl>. 



Twenty-seven 9,13 $ specimens. Chapada (March, April, 

 November) ; Corumba (April). 



Psen aurifrons Tasch. 



Chapada (October, November). Two specimens. 

 Psen Smithii n. sp. 



$. — Black; antennae basally and beneath, mandibles medially, 

 tegula?, tubercles, fulvous ; tips of femora, four anterior tibia?, base 

 of hind pair, and tarsi, yellowish ; second abdominal segment at 

 base more or less reddish ; abdomen with a bluish metallic cast ; 

 head below antenna? with dense silvery or pale golden pubescence ; 

 vertex rather finely punctured ; ocelli in a triangle, the space be- 

 tween hind pair about equal to that between them and eyes, the lat- 

 ter converging beneath ; clypeus subtruncate or subemarginate 

 medially ; antenna? rather stout, perhaps a little shorter than head 

 and thorax ; dorsulum shining, sparsely punctured ; scutellum im- 

 pressed down middle ; mesopleura? punctured similarly to dorsulum ; 

 middle segment covered with coarse reticulations, the basal enclosure 

 small, with oblique ruga? on each side of a smooth, triangular, cen- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



tral area ; petiole of abdomen about as long as hind femur, flat 

 above, not sulcate ; apical margins of segments testaceous ; wings 

 dark subhyaline, iridescent ; stigma testaceous, nervures darker ; 

 second and third submarginal cells each receiving a recurrent nerv- 

 ure, second submarginal cell narrowed about one-third above ; basal 

 vein and cubital of hind wing interstitial. Length 10 mm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. Allied to the North Ameri- 

 can P. fuscipes. 



Stigmus neotropicus Kohl. 



One specimen. Corumba (May). 



Stigmus hexagonalis n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; mandibles, except apex, yellowish ; teguke, tuber- 

 cles, antenna? and legs, including coxa?, reddish-brown ; cheeks 

 angularly produced beneath; head shining, not striated; ocelli 

 forming a low triangle, placed in pits ; the space between hind pair 

 much less than that between them and eyes ; clypeus acutely biden- 

 tate medially ; prothorax above marked by a transverse series of 

 strong fovea?, the antero-lateral angles of pronotum acutely produced, 

 as are also the sides of prothorax ; dorsulum punctured, with three 

 deep parallel furrows, the middle one of which runs to apex, the 

 others hardly half as long; suture between dorsulum and scutellum 

 foveolate ; middle segment coarsely reticulate, at base above with a 

 hexagonal enclosure, which bears a longitudinal medial fold ; petiole 

 robust, shorter than hind tibia?, with two deep sulci above, between 

 which runs a rather sharp ridge. Length 5 mm. 



Chapada (December, January) ; Corumbii (May). Three speci- 

 mens. Seems to be allied to S. temporalis Kohl, from Guatemala, 

 of which only the $ is known. 



Trachypus Romandii Sauss. 



Two specimens. Chapada (November, December). 

 Nysson tomentosus Hdl. 



Chapada (December). One specimen. 

 Nysson pilosus Sm. 



Uacarizal (February). One specimen. 

 Bothynostethus sp. 



A $ specimen from Santarem I am unable to refer to any of the 

 three described species of Bothynostethus. It agrees with Saiissurei 

 in the color of wings, but the mandibles are deeply excised and the 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



second discoidal cell is much higher than broad. In the two latter 

 characteristics it approaches the Mexican B. nitens, but differs in 

 color of wings and larger size (10 mm.). The clypeus is dentate 

 laterally as in Saussurei, of which it is, perhaps, the $ . 



Scapheutes brasilianus Hdl. 



One specimen. Chapada (March). 



Gorytes specialis Sin. 



Four specimens that agree fairly with the description of specialis. 

 It is evidently close to G. polybia Hdl., but the suture between dor- 

 sulum and scutellum is not foveolate. Chapada (January) ; Marurii ; 

 Santarem. 



Gorytes facilis Sm. 



Four specimens. Corumba (January, April) ; Santarem. This 

 species belongs, apparently, to the group of G. simillimus as defined 

 by Handlirsch in his monograph. 



Gorytes scutellaris Spin. 



Marurii (April) ; Chapada (April, November) ; Santarem. Nine 

 examples. 



Gorytes seminiger Dhlb. 



One specimen. Rio de Janeiro (November). 

 Gorytes cayennensis Spin. 



Six specimens. Marurii (April) ; Rio de Janeiro (November) ; 

 Santarem. 



Gorytes fuscus Tasch. 



Santarem. One specimen. 

 Gorytes valens n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; labrum, clypeus, face below antennae, scape beneath, 

 fore femora and tibife beneath, and apical margin of abdominal 

 segments 2-5, bright yellow ; anterior tarsi, except the first joint 

 internally, and a spot on apical joint, and a ring at base of joints 2, 

 3 and 5 of the remaining tarsi, pale yellow ; head and thorax with 

 long, grayish hairs, unusually hirsute for Gorytes; eyes strongly 

 converging beneath ; ocelli in a low triangle, situated in depres- 

 sions or pits : space between hind pair greater than that between 

 them and eyes; clypeus large, convex, somewhat triangular, its fore 

 margin broadly truncate; flagellum rather strongly clavate, the 

 first joint at least twice as long as second ; dorsulum with a distinct, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



rather strong, even punctuation, and anteriorly in the middle with 

 two, closely parallel, impressed lines ; the remainder of thorax 

 punctured, but less closely than dorsulum, the apex of the large 

 basal area of middle segment being almost smooth ; the middle seg- 

 ment is short and rounded ; mesosternum not at all carinated ; the 

 episternum and epimerum distinctly separated ; wings subhyaline, 

 yellowish along costa, darker in marginal cell ; submedian cell of 

 hind wings terminating beyond the origin of the cubital vein ; legs 

 stout, the tibise serrato-spinose, the spines pale ; abdomen robust, 

 more granulate than punctate, on the first segment, however, and 

 ventrally punctured ; held in certain lights the abdomen is covered 

 with golden pile, the apical segments with long, yellowish hairs; 

 first segment meeting the second broadly, the latter depressed at 

 base above, ventrally truncated at base, and w.ith a tubercle, so that 

 when viewed from the side it is angularly produced ; pygidium 

 large, well developed, aciculate, covered with golden pubescence. 

 Length 14-26 mm. 



Chapada (December). Three specimens. Seems to be very dis- 

 tinct from any Gorytes heretofore described. It seems intermediate 

 of the groups vn/staceus, nigrifrons, etc., and fuscus, robustus. It 

 agrees with the former in shape of second ventral segment, but the 

 recurrent veins are both received by the second submarginal cell. 

 From the fuscus group the former of these two characteristics will 

 separate it. Then again in the eyes, strongly converging toward 

 clypeus, it also differs. Except for the second ventral segment it is 

 not unlike G. moneduloides, but it is a much more robust insect. 

 Gorytes partitus n. sp. 



9 • — Head and abdomen, except first segment, black ; thorax, 

 first abdominal segment and legs reddish-brown ; clypeus, except 

 medially, labrum, base of mandibles, spot at base of antenna?, scape 

 beneath narrow line on pronotum, dorsulum at sides, tegula?, spot 

 beneath them, scutellum, postscutellum, large spot at each side of 

 middle segment, base of first abdominal segment, and four anterior 

 tibia? aud tarsi in part, yellow ; eyes distinctly converging beneath 

 clypeus transverse, punctured, broadly truncate ; antenna? but little 

 thickened apically, the first joint of flagellum about one-third longer 

 than second ; thorax practically impunctured ; suture between dor- 

 sulum and scutellum foveolate ; mesosternum carinated, the epi- 

 merum and episternum separated ; middle segment convex, divided 

 by a furrow its entire length, the basal area large; tibia? and tarsi 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



distinctly spinose, pulvilli large, fore tarsi distinctly ciliated ; 

 abdomen subpetiolate, the first segment scarcely coarctate at apex ; 

 second dorsal segment depressed at base, second ventral convex ; 

 pygidium distinct, longitudinally rugose ; wings subhyaline, fuscous 

 along costa and in marginal cell, nervures dark, stigma brown, 

 submedian cell of hind wings terminating distinctly beyond origin 

 of cubital vein : head and thorax with silvery pile, that on the dorsu- 

 lum brownish. Length 14 mm. 



Chapada (December). One specimen. Seems to be related to 

 notabilis Hdl., and fumipennis Sm. 



Gorytes coloratus n. sp. 



9 . — Head and thorax black, abdomen, and legs in part, reddish- 

 brown ; scape, clypeus sometimes, mandibles basally, pronotum, 

 scutellum anteriorly, postscutellum, spot beneath tegulse, and on each 

 side of segments 2 and 3, or 2-4, anterior tibire and tarsi entirely, 

 medial tibia?, medial tibise within, and medial, and hind tarsi more or 

 less, yellowish ; flagellum beneath at base, tegulee, tubercles, reddish- 

 testaceous ; dorsulum somewhat iridescent ; head broader than long ; 

 frontal impression deep; eyes large, strongly flattened anteriorly, 

 strongly converging toward clypeus ; ocellii forming a low triangle, 

 placed in depressions ; clypeus distinctly punctured, strongly de- 

 pressed transversely before the anterior margin ; scape longer than 

 the two following joints united, first joint of flagellum nearly as long 

 as joints 2 and 3 united ; the pronotum appears as a thick, transverse 

 fold; dorsulum shining, with distinct separated punctures; meso- 

 sternum not carinated, epimerum and episternum separated, but not 

 very distinctly ; punctuation of mesopleurse stronger than that of the 

 dorsulum; suture between dorsulum and scutellum not foveolate ; 

 scutellum strongly convex ; middle segment with basal enclosure 

 smooth and polished, the posterior face punctured and divided by a 

 deep furrow which begins at the apex of the enclosure ; legs stout, 

 hind tibia? thickened within at apex ; first joint of medial tarsi 

 somewhat curved; tibiae and tarsi spinose ; pulvilli distinct; abdo- 

 men distinctly punctured most strongly on apical segments, first seg- 

 ment slender on basal half, then broadened to the apex, where it is 

 convex, but not coarctate ; pygidium rather large, obtuse at apex, 

 deeply punctured; ventral segments 3-5 puuctured along apical 

 margin only ; wings strongly iridescent, clear, the first and second 

 recurrent nervures interstitial with the first and second transverso- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



cubital veins respectively; cubital cell of hind wings terminating 

 much before origin of cubital vein. Length 9 mm. 



Marurii (April) ; Santarem. Two specimens. 



This species belongs, no doubt, close to G. violaceus Hdl., described 

 from a single defective specimen from Brazil, which, with other 

 parts, lacked the abdomen. The present species is clearly more 

 allied to the bipunetatus group than to chilensis, and it is probable 

 that it and violaceus form a group. In coloration this new species 

 seems quite distinct from its allies ; it would be interesting to know 

 whether the abdomen of violaceus is similarly colored. 



Bembidula discisa Tasch. 



Chapada (January, February, March, September, October). 

 Twenty-three specimens. 



Bembidula variegata Oliv. 



Chapada (January, March, September, October, December). Fif- 

 teen $, live $ specimens. 



Monedula signata Lhme\ 



Chapada (March). Three females. 

 Monedula punctata Pabr. 



Eleven $ specimens. Chapada (March). 

 Monedula surinamensis DeG. 



Twenty specimens, representing both sexes, collected in January, 

 April, September to December, chiefly at Chapada. 



Monedula magnifica Perty. 



Chapada (March, April). Sixteen specimens, all females, of this 

 handsome species. 



Stizus Bolivarii Hdl. 



Chapada (January, December) ; Corumba (February, April) ; 

 Santarem. Ten specimens, which are probably this species. They 

 have all the abdominal segments fasciate. 



Trypoxylon pallitarse Sauss. 



Five specimens. Santarem (February). 

 Trypoxylon niveitarse Sauss. 



Ten specimens. Chapada (January, October, December) ; San- 

 tarem. 



Trypoxylon rufosignatum Tasch. 



Chapada (April). Three specimens. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Trypoxylon fabricator Sm. 



Chapada (October). Three specimens. This species is probably 

 identical with T. gracile Tasch. 



Trypoxylon superbum Sm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. 

 Trypoxylon lsevifrons Sm. 



One specimen. Chapada (October). 

 Trypoxylon laeve n. sp. 



9- — Deep black, shining; pubescence pale; hind tarsi except 

 base and apex, dirty white ; front with distinct, shallow punctures, 

 furrowed from before anterior ocellus to a slight prominence just 

 behind antennae ; first joint of flagellum about as long as the two 

 following united ; space between eyes above about equal to length 

 of first joint of flagellum, beneath at clypeus it is somewhat less; 

 clypeus carinated down middle, somewhat depressed laterally, its fore 

 margin in the middle subtruncate; face and clypeus with silvery 

 pubescence ; thorax is distinctly punctured ; middle segment with 

 the posterior surface transversely striated, carinated laterally, parted 

 by a deep furrow, the upper surface slightly depressed apically, sides 

 apparently smooth; abdomen rather slender, much more elongate 

 than in allied species, first segment slender, somewhat nodose at 

 apex, fully one-third longer than second segment; the abdomen 

 widens gradually from apex of first segment ; wings fuscous, with 

 blue reflection, pale at base and apex. Length 17 mm. 



$ . — Colored like 9 > the wings considerably darker ; clypeus 

 squarely produced, sub-tridentate ; antenna? short, clavate, firstjoint 

 of flagellum curved, apical joint about as long as the three preceding 

 ones united, these latter broader than long ; thorax finely punctured ; 

 middle segment except sides entirely transversely striate, but finely 

 so above at base, where it is also punctured ; hind femora sublami- 

 nated beneath toward apex ; abdomen stouter, and probably shorter 

 than in 9 (segments three et seq. missing), the first segment not 

 spinose beneath. Length about 16 mm. 



Maruru (April) ; Santarem. Three 9 , one $ , specimens. 



Trypoxylon insolitum n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; sides of the first segment and second and third more 

 or less, pale reddish, or testaceous : pubescence of thorax pale, and 

 rather dense ; face and clypeus densely silvery, including the 

 emargination of eyes ; front with unusually coarse transverse rugae 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



or folds, deeply impressed down middle ; the anterior ocellus is placed 

 in this furrow, which becomes shallower below and terminates in a 

 flat projection over the bases of antenna;; first joint of flagellum a 

 little shorter than the two following united ; clypeus not carinated, 

 prominent and rounded at apex ; thorax finely punctured, nearly 

 smooth ; tegula; testaceous ; middle segment above parted by a deep 

 furrow, which is transversely striated, and on each side of which 

 another less distinct, curved furrow is present, posterior surface also 

 parted by a furrow, finely and transversely striated ; abdomen elon- 

 gate, slender, the first segment almost linear on basal two-thirds, 

 slightly nodose, its length equal to the following segments united ; 

 wings subhyaline, iridescent, nervures dark. Length 11 mm. 



$ . — Clypeus shorter, subtruncate ; first joint of flagellum slightly 

 louger than two following united, apical joint small, not much longer 

 than the preceding one; middle segment with the furrow deeper 

 than in $ , and the upper and posterior surfaces coarsely and trans- 

 versely striated ; space between eyes at top greater than length of 

 first joint of flagellum, beneath at clypeus it is slightly less. Length 

 12 mm. 



Rio de Janeiro (November) ; Santarem. One of each sex. Re- 

 lated to fabricator Sm. and gracile Tasch. The space between eyes 

 at top and at clypeus is less in the 9, than in the $, an unusual 

 circumstance. 



Trypoxylon medianum n. sp. 



$ . — Black ; sides of first and second segments, and the latter at 

 base, reddish ; clothed with pale pubescence, that on face, clypeus, 

 tubercles, and postero-lateral angles of middle segment, pale golden ; 

 a silvery stripe runs below from tegulse ; clypeus tridentate at apex, 

 the median tooth acute and longest ; front apparently granulated, 

 feebly impressed ; a longitudinal raised line behind base of antenna? ; 

 space between eyes at top but slightly greater than that between them 

 at the clypeus, somewhat greater than the length of first joint of 

 flagellum ; the latter subclavate, first joint about as long as two fol- 

 lowing united, the ultimate joint small, not much longer than the 

 preceding one ; dorsulum and scutellum with distinct, separated 

 punctures, those of mesopleurse finest; middle segment above finely 

 punctato-striate, the posterior surface with distinct transverse stria? 

 deeply furrowed down middle, sides punctured; hind trochanters 

 not dentate ; abdomen clavate, rather stout, first segment a little 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



nodose, as long as the two following united ; wings subhyaline, apical 

 margins fuscous, nervures dark. Length 13 mm. 

 Corumba (April) ; Santarem. Two specimens. 



Trypoxylon fallax n. sp. 



9 . — Black ; sides of the first and second segments and base of the 

 latter reddish ; face, clypeus and suture below tegula? with silvery 

 pubescence, that on pronotum pale golden ; other pubescence pale ; 

 front coarsely granulated, with a prominence or tubercle behind 

 antenna?, and above it a V-shaped depression ; ocelli situated in de- 

 pressions ; space between eyes at top about equal to length of first 

 joint of flagellum, beneath at clypeus somewhat less; clypeus flat, 

 somewhat roundly produced, emarginate in middle of fore margin ; 

 thorax with distinct separated punctures ; above the middle segment 

 is finely punctato-striate, depressed slightly at apex, the posterior 

 surface more distinctly striated and sulcate down the middle; first 

 abdominal segment slightly nodose at apex, about one-quarter longer 

 than the second ; wings subhyaline, nervures dark testaceous. Length 

 1 3 mm. 



Var. (?). More subtilely punctured ; clypeus entire. 

 $ . — Similar to 9 , with the reddish color on abdomen more ex- 

 tended, the base of segments, 2-3 being of that color, and first joint 

 of tarsi pale at base ; clypeus roundly emarginate ; first joint of 

 flagellum slightly curved, the last joint but little longer than the 

 penultimate ; hind trochanters not dentate. Length 12 mm. 



Chapada (March) ; Maruru ; Santarem. Three 9 , one 2 , speci- 

 mens. Closely resembles medianum, but the clypeus is emarginate, 

 not dentate, front more coarsely granulated and with a V-shaped 

 depression, etc. 



In addition to the foregoing species of Trypoxylon the collection 

 contains eight other species, apparently new, represented by single 

 specimens, which, for that reason and to the inadequate descriptions 

 of many neotropical species, I have refrained from describing at the 

 present time. 



Oxybelus marginatum 8m. 



A single specimen from Santarem. 



Oxybelus americanus Spin. 



Five specimens. Chapada (May, December) ; Maruru (April) ; 

 Santarem. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Crabro pugnans Sm. 



Chapada (April). One specimen. Pugnans belongs to the group 

 Crossocerus. 



Crabro carinatus Sua. 



Two specimens. Pedra Branca (April) ; Rio de Janeiro (Novem- 

 ber). Seems to belong to Solenius group, as characterized in Kohl's 

 table. 

 Crabro verticalis Sm. 



Fourteen specimens, all females. Chapada (January, March, May, 

 December). This species apparently belongs to Crossocerus group. 



Crabro atitlanse Cam. 



Two specimens from Rio de Janeiro (November) and Benivedes 

 (July) I refer with some doubt to atitlance. If not identical they 

 are closely allied. 



Crabro productus n. sp. 



9 . — Head large, closely punctured ; ocelli in a curved line, 

 space between hind pair slightly, if anything, less than that between 

 them and e) T es; clypeus sharply carinated, its fore margin rounded 

 medially ; first joint of flagellum about one-third longer than sec- 

 ond ; pronotum bordered anteriorly by a sharp carina, terminating 

 in a small tooth laterally ; dorsulum rugoso-punctate, more sparsely 

 posteriorly, depressed down middle and bicarinate; scutellum with 

 large, separated punctures ; mesopleurse longitudinally rugose, the 

 mesosternum shining, with distant punctures; middle segment 

 divided by a longitudinal furrow, which is deepest within the basal 

 enclosure, which is large and rather finely rugose; posterior face 

 with transverse folds on rugse, not margined laterally, the sides 

 microscopically striated ; tibiae distinctly spinose ; first dorsal ab- 

 dominal segment with coarse, separated punctures, with a margin of 

 fine ones at apex ; the second segment less strongly punctured ; the 

 remaining dorsals finely punctured ; ventrals shining, the second 

 with large, sparse punctures, the third, fourth and fifth with a trans- 

 verse series of punctures before apex ; pygidium narrow, rounded 

 at apex, depressed, with large punctures. Black ; cheeks and sides 

 of thorax with silvery pubescence, that on face and clypeus golden, 

 silvery in part in certain lights ; scape, line on mandibles, prono- 

 tum, tubercles, line on metanotum, spot at apex of four anterior 

 femora beneath, a line on all the tibiae externally, the hind pair 

 almost entirely, base of hind tarsi, large spot on each side of first 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



two dorsal segments connected by a narrow line, a medially nar- 

 rowed fascia on dorsals 3-5, sixth almost entirely and a short line 

 at each side of ventrals 2, 3, or 2-4, at apex, yellow ; wings subbya- 

 line, nervnres testaceous. Length about 9 mm. 



$ . — Similar to 9 ; space between hind ocelli distinctly less than 

 that between them and eyes ; third and fourth joints of flagellum 

 uniting in such a way as to form an emargination beneath, the 

 fourth joint rather prominent at apex ; furrowing forming the en- 

 closure of middle segment foveolate ; punctuation of mesosternum 

 and second ventral segment finer and closer than in the $ , but that 

 of the abdomen dorsally is coarser ; four anterior femora yellow at 

 apex, a spot at apex of hind pair beneath ; joints 1-3 of medial 

 tarsi produced at apex on inner side. Length 8 mm. 



Chapada (March, April, November, December). One $ exam- 

 ple is very small, 5 mm. According to Kohl's table, belongs in the 

 Solenius group. 



The collection also contains several additional species of Crabro, 

 probably new to science, but represented by single specimens. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



A REVISION OF THE GENUS SYNIDOTEA.* 

 BY JAMES E. BENEDICT, PH.D. 



Among the unnamed Isopods in the National Museum seven spe- 

 cies regarded as new have been referred to Synidotea as defined by 

 Harger. Of the eight described species of the genus, five were in 

 the collection and an additional one was loaned by the California 

 Academy of Sciences. With so many new, and six of the eight de- 

 scribed species at hand, it was thought best to treat the genus mono- 

 graphically, and the descriptions of the two remaining species were 

 added. 



The new species all come from the North Pacific Ocean and Ber- 

 ing Sea. One was taken in San Francisco Bay by Mr. C. H. 

 Townsend while examining the oyster beds for the U. S. Fish Com- 

 mission ; the others were dredged by the ' Albatross,' one off the 

 State of Washington and five in Bering Sea ; two of the latter had, 

 however, previously been taken by Mr. W. H. Dall. 



The bathymetrical range of the genus is from shallow water to 

 695 fathoms. The geographical range is as follows : One species in 

 South African waters, one from Japan, one from Lower California, 

 two from California, one off the State of Washington, seven in Ber- 

 ing Sea and the adjacent waters of the Arctic Ocean, and two from 

 the North Atlantic. 



The genus Synidotea was instituted by Harger in 1878 to receive 

 Idotea bieuspida Owen and /. nodulosa Krjzfyer. The two species 

 now represent the two sections of the genus ; the bieuspida section 

 contains eleven and the nodulosa four species. All of the species 

 come well within the limits of the genus. 



The antennre of all have multi-articulate flagella. The palpus of 

 the maxillipeds has but three joints. The epimera of the four an- 

 terior segments are indicated, if at all, by a slight notch or pit in the 

 posterior margins midway between the lateral margins and the 

 median line ; the epimera of the three posterior segments are dis- 

 tinctly outlined in a dorsal view, and are solidly united to the true 



* Published by permission of the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. 

 26 




390 FROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



segmental margins. The abdomen is composed of two segments 

 united above but separated at the sides by short incisions. 



In addition to the above generic characters, most species agree in 

 having the head excavated in front, a cross-like areolation between 

 the eyes, the extremities of the cross being usually armed with tuber- 

 cles or spines ; in having a spine or tubercle between the eyes and 

 the front. A deep transverse suture near the back of the head cuts 

 off a postcephalic lobe or areolation ; between this areolation and 

 the cross are two lateral areolations, sometimes united at the base 

 and sometimes separated by a channel. The sides of the thorax in 

 all species show undulations or nodules of more or less prominence. 



The section of the genus of which bicuspida is the type is charac- 

 terized by having the distal end of the abdomen emarginate or bi- 

 cuspid, while in the nodulosa section the end is bluntly pointed. 



The basal plates of the operculum in all species except harfordi 

 are crossed by a diagonal line or ridge. 



SYNIDOTEA Harger. 



Synidotea Harger, American Journal of Science (3), XV, p. 374, 1878. 

 Edotia Miers, Journal Linn. Soc. Lond., XVI, p. 65 (pars), 1 1883. 

 Synidotea G. O. Sars, Norwegian North Atlantic Expedition, Crust., p. 116, 



1885. 



Synidotea Harger, character emended. 



"Antenna? with an articulated flagellum." Epimeral sutures not 

 evident above on the first four segments; on the last three the lines 

 of demarcation are more or less distinct. " Pleon apparently com- 

 posed of two segments, united above but separated at the sides by 

 short incisions. Operculum with a single apical plate. Palpus of 

 maxillipeds three-jointed." 



1 Miers, in his " Revision of the Idoteidre " in this journal, unites several 

 genera under Edotia Guerin-Meneville, then arranges Edotia in three sec- 

 tions as follows : 



# Antenmv well developed, with the flagellum composed of several joints. 

 Postabdomen uniarticulate. (Synidotea). 



'0. Antenna? very small, with the flagellum rudimentary ; postabdomen uni- 

 articulate. (Edotia). 



§§| Flagellum of the antenna; obsolete; postabdomen biarticulate. (Desmares- 

 lia, Epelys. ) 



In this arrangement Professor Sars does not concur, but says in regard to 

 Synidotea, " This genus was first instituted by Harger, and should unquestion- 

 ably be maintained." 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Key to Species Examined. 



a Abdomen emarginate or notched at the distal end. 



b Two spines or tubercles overhanging the frontal notch. 



c Spines united near the base. pallida 



c' Tubercles free at the base. erosa 



b' No spines or tubercles overhanging the frontal notch. 



c With a low ridge arising between the eyes and interrupted 

 on the median line. 



d Outlines of abdomen subparallel. nebulosa 



d' Outlines strongly arcuate. angulata 



c' Without a ridge between the eyes. 



d Outline of abdomen subtriangular. 



e Front not excavated. * consolidata 



e' Front excavated. 



f Outlines of thorax subparallel. marmorata 

 f Outlines of thorax strongly arcuate. 



bicuspida 

 d' Outlines of abdomen rounded. 



e Length of abdomen equal to width at base. 



laticauda 

 e' Length of abdomen equal to one and one-half 

 times the width at base. harfordi 



a' Abdomen pointed. 



b Undulations of the body not tubercular or spiny. 



c Tubercle in front of the eyes not margined. nodulosa 



c' Tubercle on the frontal margin and forming a part of it. 



Icevis 

 b' Undulations of the body tubercular and spiny. 



c Four spines on the front of the head; body spinous. 



m uricata 



c' A wedge-shaped tubercle behind the frontal notch ; body 



tubercular. picta 



Synidotea bicuspida (Owen). Fig. 1. 



Idotea bicuspida Owen, Crustacea of the ' Blossom,' p. 92, pi. xxvii, fig. 6, 

 1839. 



Idotea pulchra Lockington, Proc. Cali- Acad. Sci., VII. p. 44, 1877. 



Edotia bicuspida Miers, Journal of the Linnean Society of London, XVI, 

 p. 66, 1883 (pars). 



Synidotea bicuspida Sars, Crustacea, Norwegian North Atlantic Exped , p. 

 116, pi. X, figs. 24-26, 1885; equal to Synidotea incisa Sars, Crustacea et 

 Pycnogonida nova, etc., No. 8. 




392 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Fig. 1. Synidotea bicuspida 

 (Owen), xf 



There are a large number of speci- 

 mens of this species in the collection 

 from Bering Sea and the Arctic Ocean. 

 The species is the largest and its shell 

 is the heaviest and strongest of any in 

 the geuus. This and the closely re- 

 lated Atlantic form, S. marmorata 

 Packard, and the small Californian 

 species S. consolidata (Stimpson), are 

 easily distinguished from any known 

 species by the triangular abdomen 

 with a comparatively sharp bicuspid 

 apex. Some of the largest specimens 

 measure 31 mm. in length and 14.5 in 

 width. 



Shallow water to 56 fathoms. 



Synidotea marmorata (Packard). Fig. 2. 



Idotsea marmorata Packard, Memoirs Boston Society of Natural History, 

 I, p. 296, pi. viii, fig. 6, 1867. Whiteaves, Canad. Nat., p. 262. 1875. 



Idotea 'marmorata equals I. bicuspida Streets and Kingsley, Bulletin Essex 

 Institute, IX, p. 108, 1877. 



? IdotJiea rugulosa Buehholz, Zweite Deutsche Nordpolarf., II, p. 285, 1874. 



Synidotea bimspida Harger, Proceedings U. S. National Museum, II, p. 

 160, 1879; also U. S. Fish Commission Keport for 1878, p. 352, 1880. 



Edotia bicuspida Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc. Loud., XVI, p. 06, 1SS3 (pars). 



This species was described by A. 

 S. Packard, Jr., in his paper on the 

 " Recent Invertebrate Fauna of La- 

 brador " from specimens taken in 

 Kyuetarbuck Bay in seven fathoms 

 on a sandy bottom. The National 

 Museum series consists of four spec- 

 imens from Station 2,431, lat. N. 

 43° 00' 00", Ion. W. 50° 47' 30", 

 129 fathoms; one from Station 

 2,436, lat. N. 43° 36' 00", Ion. W. 

 50° 06' 30", 36 fathoms, and five 

 from the Gloucester fishermen. 

 Compared with S. bicuspida it is 

 not so wide ; the thin epimeral pro- 

 jections so prominent in bicuspida 

 are much reduced in this species ; 

 the joints of the antenna? are relatively longer and more slender in 

 marmorata. The average size of the specimens of marmorata is much 



Fig. 2. Synidotea marmorata 

 Packard, x 2h. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



393 



smaller than those of bicuspida; a larger series might change this. 

 The largest male S. marmorata measures 18 mm. in length and 7 

 mm. in width. A male S. bicuspida of about equal size, measures 

 17 mm. in length and 8 in width. 



Synidotea consolidata (Stimpson). Fig. 3. 



Idotea consolidata Stimpson, Proc Cal. Acad. Sci , I, p. (89) 97, 1856, 

 also Boston Jour. Nat. Hist., VI, p. 503, 1857. 



Edotia bicuspida (nee Idotea bicuspida Owen) Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc. Lond., 

 XVI, p. 66, 1883 (pars). 



Two specimens of this species, labelled 

 'Pacific Grove, California,' were received 

 from Mr. J. O. Snyder. 



The front is emarginate, the median notch 

 is large. The deep excavation of the front 

 in S. bicuspida is in sharp contrast to the 

 nearly straight front of this species. Be- 

 hind the frontal notch is a pair of large, 

 blunt tubercles transversely placed. The 

 lateral margins of the thorax are subparallel 

 in the male and strongly arcuate in the fe- 

 male. The margins are incised in this spe- 

 cies ; in bicuspida they are full. There is a 

 line of low swellings on the median line and 

 another line of like swellings part way be- Fig 3. Synidotea con- 

 tween the median line and the margin. The solidata (Stimpson). xf.* 

 abdomen is much like that of bicuspida. 

 Synidotea laticauda, new species. Fig. 4. 



A single specimen of Synidotea 

 was taken by Mr. C. H. Townseud 

 in San Francisco Bay ; it is readily 

 distinguished from any species yet 

 described. 



The head is wider than long, the 

 anterior margin is nearly straight 

 and is slightly produced horizon- 

 tally ; its whole upper surface is 

 evenly swollen and has neither ele- 

 vations nor depressions of any kind ; 

 the cephalic lobe is little more than 

 indicated. The eyes are large, 

 round, lateral and but very slightly 

 projecting. The antenna? are equal 



Fig. 4. Synidotea laticauda 

 Benedict, x 2J 



* Incorrect. The antennae should be placed as in the others and show 

 seven or eight joints in the flagella. 




394 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



to the head and thorax in length, the flagellum has twenty-one arti- 

 cles. The basal segment of the peduncle is short, reaching but a 

 little beyond the front ; the second segment is as broad as long ; 

 the third segment is about once and a half as long as broad ; the 

 fourth is a little more than twice the breadth ; the fifth is nearly as 

 long as the third and fourth together. The antennulse extend a lit- 

 tle beyond the base of the fourth segment of the antenna?. 



The thorax is widest at the fourth segment. From the sides of 

 the fourth segment the outline curves around to the eye. Poste- 

 riorly from the fourth segment the outline is straight to the distal 

 third of the abdomen. The second, third and fourth segments are 

 longest. There are no spines or tubercles anywhere and the rugos- 

 ities so common to the species of the genus are barely indicated. 



The abdomen is very little longer than its breadth at the base. 

 It tapers gradually for the first two-thirds of its length where it be- 

 gins to taper more rapidly to a broad emarginate extremity. 



The feet are sparsely set with coarse hair. The valves of the 

 operculum are diagonally crossed by a curved line. 



The specimen is clouded with dark patches made up of small 

 black spots. 



This species can be distinguished from any other yet described by 

 its broadly emarginate abdomen. 



Length 17 mm., width 7 mm. (No. 20,504, U. S. N. M.). 



Synidotea nebulosa, new species. Fig. 5. 

 The front of the head is exca- 

 vated ; between the median notch 

 and the antero-lateral margin the 

 outline is emarginate ; between the 

 margin and the eyes the protuber- 

 ances are but little elevated ; the 

 cross areolation is smooth ; the lat- 

 eral areolations are separated by 

 an extension of the cross ; this ex- 

 tension is itself slightly divided by 

 a slightly impressed line. The de- 

 pression in front of the postce- 

 phalic lobe is deep. The sides of 

 the head extend to the vertical 

 line of the eyes, cutting off the vi- 

 sion from objects directly below. 

 The antennae are about 6 mm. in Benedict. 



Fig. 5. Synidotea nebulosa 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



395 



1897.] 



length in a large specimen and have a ten-jointed flagellum ; the 

 distal joint of the peduncle is 1.5 mm. in length. The outline of the 

 thorax is ovate in both sexes; the undulations are distinct; the 

 fourth segment is the longest. The epimeral sutures of the three 

 posterior segments can be made out under a lens. The incisions on 

 the sides of the abdomen are short ; the areolations at the base and 

 summit are large and smooth. The lateral outline of the anterior 

 half is straight or slightly concave, of the posterior half convex. 

 The distal end is slightly excavated. 



Several specimens of both sexes were taken at Station 3,600 in 

 company with S. picta, and at Station 3,637 in 32 fathoms. Mr. 

 Dall obtained them at Unalaska in 16 fathoms ; at Kyska Harbor, 

 9 to 16 fathoms; Semidi Islands, 12 to 25 fathoms. Types (No. 

 20,503, U. S. N. M.) from Station 3,600, lat. N. 55° 06' 00", Ion. 

 W. 163° 28' 00", 9 fathoms. 



This species can be distinguished at sight from all other alcoholic 

 specimens of the genus by its dark-colored head and fourth segment, 

 and by the dark line surrounding the elevated portions of the abdo- 

 men. The first and last three segments of the thorax are light with 

 small flakes of black uniformly sprinkled over the surface; the 

 median line of the first three is usually broad and dark. 



Length of a large male, 17 mm. ; width, 6.5 mm. Length of a 

 large female, 15 mm. ; width, 7 mm. 



Synidotea angulata, new species. Fig. 6. 



This is a small species easily distin- 

 guished from the others of the genus in 

 its region by the angular and projecting 

 lateral margins of the first three thoracic 

 segments ; it is most nearly related to S. 

 nebulosa. 



The head is excavated in front in a 

 nearly even curve, and there is no dis- 

 tinct median notch as in nebulosa. Be- 

 tween the eyes and the front the tuber- 

 cles are very low and inconspicuous ; 

 the cross areolation is a low ridge inter- 

 rupted in the middle by a V-shaped 

 notch ; the lateral areolations of other 

 species, in this, form a single transverse 

 areolation not at all separated in the middle ; it is separated from 

 the postcephalic lobe by a deep impression. The sides of the head 



Fig. 6. Synidotea angulata 

 Benedict, x ♦. 




396 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



do not extend to the vertical line of the eyes. The flagellum of the 

 antenna? has nine or ten joints. The sides of the thorax are very 

 much less arcuate than in nebulosa, and where in the latter species 

 the margins are rounded, in this they project in obtuse angles; the 

 lateral margins of the three posterior segments are straight. The 

 abdomen is very, much as in nebulosa. In color this species in part 

 simulates nebulosa. In the specimens examined it lacks the black 

 flakes, there is a line of spots near the margin and one in line with 

 the epimeral lines. 



The largest good specimen is 11 mm. in length. 



Stations 2,868, 2,869 and 2,872, in 31 to 38 fathoms. 



Station 2,869, lat. N. 47° 38' 00", Ion. W. 124° 39' 00" ; 32 fath- 

 oms. Types (No. 20,506, U. S. N. M.). 



Synidotea pallida, new species. Fig. 7. 



The frontal margin is deeply 

 and evenly concave, there being 

 no median notch. The surface 

 between the eyes is protuberant 

 and is divided by a slight me- 

 dian impressed line. In the 

 angle formed by the raised por- 

 tion between the eyes and the 

 horizontal front are two horn- 

 like tubercles united at the bases 

 by a very short ridge across the 

 median line. The cephalic su- 

 ture is deep but closed at tlie 

 bottom. The peduncles of the 

 antenna? are about equal to the 

 flagella in length ; the latter 

 have from 12 to 16 segments. 

 The eyes are small, situated at a 

 distance from the margin on 

 slight elevations. The sides of the head and of all the thoricic seg- 

 ments are thin and produced, nearly horizontal. The four anterior 

 segments are long, with rounded post-lateral angles, the three pos- 

 terior segments are short with subacute angles. On each side at a 

 little distance from the median line on the 2d, 3d and 4th segments 

 is a single spine. In young specimens the spines are proportion- 

 ately longer and they are replaced on the posterior segments by low 



Fig. 7. 



Synidotea pallida Benedict. 

 x2J. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



397 



tubercles ; the median line is also tubercular. The legs are long and 

 slender on the 7th segment, a little shorter on the 6th, and so on to 

 the 1st which are quite short. 



The abdomen is markedly narrower than the 7th segment, it tap- 

 ers gradually to a point near the end which is broad and well 

 rounded, the median line ends in a small concavity best seen with a 

 lens. Excepting the usual lateral incisions, the upper surface is 

 smooth and glabrous. 



A large male measures 22 mm. in length and 7.5 in breadth ; a 

 female, with eggs, 12 mm. in length and 4.5 in breadth. 



Not less than one thousand specimens of this species were dredged 

 off Chirikoff Island, Alaska, at Station 3,340, lat. N. 55° 26' 00", 

 Ion. W. 155° 26' 00", 695 fathoms (No. 20,500, U. S. N. M.). 



Synidotea erosa, new species. Fig. 8. 



Several specimens of this species 

 were dredged at Station 3,210 oft* San- 

 nakh Islands, Alaska, in 483 fathoms ; 

 lat. N. 54° 00' 00", Ion. W. 162° 40' 

 30" (No. 20,505, U. S. N. M.). 



Erosa is more nearly related to S. 

 pallida than to any species yet dis- 

 covered, as in the latter there are two 

 horn-like protuberances just back of 

 the frontal margin. The cephalic su- 

 ture is the same except that it is more 

 open at the bottom. The other pro- 

 tuberances and depressions of the head 

 are the same, except that in erosa, there 

 is a prominent tubercle between the 

 eyes and the front ; in S. pallida this 

 is lacking, or, if represented at all, by 

 a low swelling. All of the projections 

 of the head are more or less eroded. The segments of the thorax 

 have very low tubercles or slight swellings where the spines are situ- 

 ated in pallida. The rugse of the lowest portions of the thorax are 

 much more prominent in this species. In outline erosa is narrower 

 and less arcuate, the outer margins of the segments are much less 

 produced. The 7th segment is not noticeably wider than the base 

 of the abdomen. The abdomen holds its width to a point beyond 

 the middle, whence it is rounded to the terminus, which, as in 



Fig. 8. Synidotea erosa 



Benedict. 



r 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



pallida, is slightly concave. The slightly arcuate outline of the 

 thorax running into the straight outline of the abdomen differenti- 

 ates this from all other species of the genus. Other differences are, 

 the larger eyes situated nearer the margin of the head, the very 

 hairy edges of the valve, and the sparsely granulated abdomen. The 

 length of the adults from which the foregoing description is made 

 ranges from 21 to 22 mm. 



A female, about 14 mm. in length, has arcuate lateral margins, 

 and all of the tubercles of the large male are exaggerated in size ; 

 the tubercles between the eyes and the front and the pair separated 

 by the median line form a row of four large tubercles on the front. 



The young males have almost parallel sides ; the median tuber- 

 cles of the front are swollen and much eroded, as are all of the 

 prominences of the head. On each of the first four segments of the 

 thorax is a median tubercle on the transverse ridge and also a 

 smaller one in front of it ; there is another row of tubercles on the 

 sides. The sides of the abdomen are rough and warty. 



Synidotea nodulosa (Kr/yer). 



The limits of this species are hard to define. All of the species 

 with pointed abdomens are very similar, yet constitute, I believe, 

 good species. Abundant material will not unlikely show that addi- 

 tional species must be recognized. Kr^yer described nodulosa from 

 South Greenland ; Harger had several specimens from the Eastern 

 Fishing Banks and also records them from off Queen Charlotte 

 Island. 



I have not found nodulosa in the west coast collections. A dry spe- 

 cimen from Jugor Schar presented by the Royal Zoological Museum 

 of Copenhagen has the cross areolation between the eyes armed 

 with four tubercles, the two on the transverse line are slightly com- 

 pressed, those on the median line are united at the base, the poste- 

 rior one is much the larger ; the areolations between the post- 

 cephalic lobe and the cross are well elevated, coarsely punctate, 

 and divided on the median line ; the tubercles between the margin 

 and the eyes are well elevated and free from the margin. On each 

 segment of the thorax a short ridge crosses the median line, form- 

 ing a slightly elevated angular tubercle on the line. The abdo- 

 men measures at the base about four-fifths of its length, or 4.2 mm. 

 broad to 5.3 long. 



A specimen from the fishing banks of the northeast coast is prob- 

 ably nearer Kr^fyer's type than any other in the collection ; in this 

 the cross is armed with four tubercles that are much less conspicu- 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



399 



ous than those of the Jugor Schar specimen, the posterior one on 

 the median line is the largest and is not so positively united at the 

 base ; the areolations behind the cross are not so elevated, and are 

 but faintly punctate ; in this and in some smaller specimens they are 

 united on the median line ; the tubercles in front of the eyes are not 

 so nearly vertical and are much more angular ; the transverse ridges 

 are not so large but more acute, with slight tubercles at their inter- 

 section with the median line. The abdomen measures at its base 

 8.2 mm. in breadth, its length is 4.25 mm. In 8. Icevis the cross is 

 armed with but a single tubercle on the median line ; this is not 

 vertical as in nodulosa, but horizontal, and when seen from above 

 covers the median notch of tbe front, otherwise the cross is a smooth 

 areolation with slightly elevated transverse extremities. The areo- 

 lations behind the cross are smooth and broadly united at the 

 median line. The tubercles in front of the eyes arise from the mar- 

 gin and form a part of it. The segments of the thorax are incon- 

 spicuously tubercular on the median line. The breadth of the 

 abdomen at the base is 4 mm., length 5.4 mm. 



Synidotea laevis, new species. Fig. 9. 



Numerous specimens from Sta- 

 tions 3,252, lat. N. 57° 22' 20", Ion. 

 W. 164° 24' 40", 29i fathoms, and 

 3,253, lat. N. 57° 05' 50", Ion. W. 

 164° 27' 15", 36 fathoms, respect- 

 ively, differ from S. nodulosa and 

 its near allies by the lack of three 

 tubercles on the head and the less 

 prominent elevations of the thorax. 

 The cross-like areolation between 

 the eyes is smooth with the excep- 

 tion of a single tubercle which is 

 prolonged horizontally over the 

 median notch. The tubercles 

 which in nodulosa arise between 

 the eyes and the front, in this spe- x ?• 



cies arise at the margin and form a part of it. They are less erect 

 than in nodulosa and are more angular. 



Harger says of nodulosa, " Color in alcohol gray, often with 

 brownish transverse markings;" these specimens are gray in alco- 

 hol with a dark, broken, median line on the anterior segments. 



Fig. 9. Synidotea laevis Benedict. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Length 15 mm., breadth 4.8 mm. Types (No. 20,501, U. S. N. 

 M.). 



Synidotea muricata (Harford). Fig. in. Hotcea muricata Harford. Proc. Cal. 

 Acad. Sei., VII, Pt. I, p. 117, (1876), 1877. 



Six specimens, taken by the 'Cor- 

 win ' off Icy Cape differ from all 

 other species of the genus yet de- 

 scribed by the spiny nature of the 

 dorsal surface, head and pleon in- 

 cluded. The locality is lat. 70° 

 15' 00" N., long. 162° 55' 00" W., 

 in 25 fathoms. 



The head is deeply excavated in 

 front, the margin running inward 

 from the lateral prolongations to a 

 median notch. The flagella of the 

 antennjB have from 10 to 12 seg- 

 ments. A small spine overhangs 

 the median notch, a second spine 

 is situated a little behind the first, 

 a third is in line on the posterior 

 lobe; two other spines, one on each 

 side of the first two, form, in con- 

 nection with them, the figure of a diamond; the spines of the median 

 line are at the obtuse angles. A little behind the margin and in 

 front of the eye is a short spine with a compressed base. Spines 

 with compressed bases are not peculiar to the front, but begin on the 

 postcephalic lobe and extend to the end of the thorax situated on 

 transverse ridges and forming the median line of spines. The 

 spines on the abdomen are not compressed. On either side of the 

 median line is a lateral line of spines ; below these spines on each 

 segment is a group of five spines arranged in two transverse rows, 

 three in the anterior and two in the posterior rows. The abdomen 

 has two transverse ridges, the basal ridge has three spines and the 

 next ridge five. On each side is a group of from five to nine very 

 short spines, the number varying according to the size of the speci- 

 men. The abdomen is broad at the base, constricted at about the 

 middle and runs out to an acute terminus. The specimens have 

 been in poor alcohol too long to make color notes of any value. 

 Length of a large specimen 21 mm., breadth 7 mm. 



Fig. 10. Synidotea muricata 

 Harford, x 2i. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



401 



Fig. 11. Synidotea picta 

 Benedict, x #. 



Synidotea picta, new species. Figs. 11 and 12. 



The head is deeply excavated in 

 front ; the notch is deep ; the tuber- 

 cles in front of the eyes are near to 

 and overhang the margin. 



The median line of the cross areo- 

 lation is elevated into a wedge-shaped 

 ridge which overhangs the notch in a 

 vertical view ; the transverse extrem- 

 ities of the cross are elevated forming 

 tubercles ; the lateral areolations are 

 protuberant and are separated by a 

 deep depression which unites with the 

 depression in front of the postce- 

 phalic lobe and the one behind the 

 cross, altogether forming a B shaped 

 depression. The elevated portions of 



the head are pitted. The flagellum of the antennae is composed of 

 eight or nine segments. From the anterior angles the body widens 

 to the fourth segment ; from this point it diminishes evenly in size 

 to the end of the abdomen. All of the segments have low swellings 

 on the median line and numerous rugosities on the sides. The ex- 

 tremity of the abdomen is pointed ; the surface is punctate. 



This species is beautifully colored ; the 

 antennal peduncles are patched with dark, 

 the anterior margins of the head are in some 

 specimens blotched with rose ; the rugosities 

 of the thorax are tinged with red, the abdo- 

 men is blotched Avith red and dark. In 

 the more highly colored specimens the lower 

 portion of the segments are light and red, 

 except on the fourth which is always dark. 

 The legs have a patch of dark on each joint. 

 The length of a large specimen is 14 mm. 

 The seven type specimens were dredged 

 at Station 3,600, lat. N. 55° 06' 00", Ion. W. 

 163° 28' 00", 9 fathoms, in company with S. 

 nebulosa (No. 20,502, U. S. N. M.). 



Variety. — Specimens obtained by Mr. Dall 

 in Bering Strait (No. 13,311, U. S. N. M.), 



Fig. 12. Synidotea picta, 

 var. x 



3. 

 1* 




402 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



and at Cape Lisburne (No. 13,325, U. S. N. M.) and by Lieutenant 

 Stoney in Norton Sound (No. 13,641, U. S. N. M.), differ from the 

 types in having a stouter abdomen and a much more solid shell; 

 they also lack color, not unlikely because of the greater length 

 of time in alcohol. These specimens come from localities far to the 

 north of the station where the types were obtained. More material 

 in a fresh state may show sound lines of demarcation that are not 

 sufficiently evident in the material at hand. 



Synidotea harfordi, new name. Fig. 13. 

 Idot&a marmoraia Harford, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci., VII, p. 117, 1877. 



The name given by Mr. Harford was preoccupied by Professor 

 Packard in 1867. (See p. 392). 



The front of the head is nearly 

 straight, the sides are bent abruptly 

 downward and inward ; the eyes are 

 on the angle thus formed, extending 

 the range of vision to objects beneath. 

 The length of the antennae laid off on 

 the median line reaches from the front 

 to the middle of the sixth thoracic seg- 

 ment ; the fifth joint of the peduncle 

 equals in length the third and fourth 

 taken together ; the flagellum has 

 twenty-two segments. 



The body is widest at the second and 

 third segments, tapering forward to 

 the anterolateral angles of the head ; 

 its anterior outline is arcuate ; poste- 

 riorly the body tapers to the end of the 

 narrow abdomen in nearly straight 

 lines. The four anterior segments are the longest. The sur- 

 face of the body is finely punctate under a lens. The median 

 line of the thorax is dark-colored ; on the second, third and fourth 

 segments is a light and slightly impressed V-shaped line, the V 

 opening forward ; on these segments there is also on each side of the 

 V a diagonally-placed light spot shaped like a half-moon : the sur- 

 face is elsewhere spotted and blotched with light and dark. The 

 specimen is labelled ' Magdalena Bay, L. C, "W. J. Fisher.' 



Length 16.5 mm., breadth 5 mm. 



Fig. 13. Synidotea harfordi 

 Benedict, new name, x 3i. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Synidotea hirtipes (Milne-Edwards). 



Idotea hirtipes Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crust., Ill, p. 134, 1S40. 

 Krauss, Die Sudafrikan. Crust., p. 61, 1843. 



Edotia hirtipes Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc. Lond., XVI, p. 68, 1883. 



Miers' description of Milne-Edwards' type is as follows : 

 " In this species the body is somewhat ovate, moderately convex, 

 arcuated on the sides, evenly granulated above, with large inequal- 

 ities on the sides of the thoracic segments at some distance from the 

 lateral margins. Head with the anterior margin very slightly ex- 

 cavated, and with a semicircular curved impressed line posterior to 

 its frontal margin, and another, nearly straight line near its posterior 

 margin ; its antero-lateral angles prominent and nearly right angles. 

 The first three thoracic segments with an impressed curved line in 

 the middle of the dorsal surface, and rounded at their postero-lateral 

 angles ; in none of the segments are these angles prolonged back- 

 ward. Postabdomen short, rounded posteriorly, with a fissure on 

 each side at its base, and with a small and shallow median emargina- 

 tion at its distal end. Eyes large. Antennules reaching nearly to 

 the end of the penultimate joint of the antennse, with their basal 

 joints very small. Terminal joint of the peduncle of the antennse 

 longer than the preceding ; flagellum with about 14-21 joints. Legs 

 long, slender, hairy, and terminating in a long claw. Terminal 

 plates of the opercular valves irregularly four-sided, being much 

 narrowed at the distal end. Length of the largest specimen nearly 

 1 inch (2.5 mm.), breadth nearly tj inch (10 mm.)." 



Localities, Cape of Good Hope (Types) ; Simon's Bay, South 

 Africa, in 4-7 fathoms. 



Synidotea lsevidorsalis (Miers). 



Edotia hirtipes, var. Isevidorsalis Miers, Jour. Linn. Soc. Lond., XVI, p. 69, 

 pi. Ill, figs. 1, 2, 1883. 



Miers says of this species " Two males are in the collection of the 

 Museum from Jatiyama Bay, Japan, obtained at a depth of 6i 

 fathoms, lat. 39° 2' N., long. 189° 50' E., presented by Dr. J. Gwyn 

 Jeffreys and collected by Capt. H. C. St. John, B,. N., that differ 

 so slightly from I. hirtipes that I cannot regard them as specifically 

 distinct. The body is quite smooth in the larger example, and very 

 nearly so in the smaller (which is of larger size than any specimen 

 of the typical I. hirtipes that I have seen), and in both is of a 

 decidedly narrower-oval form ; the antero-lateral angles of the head 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



are perhaps not so prominent and more rounded ; the eyes are 

 smaller. Length of the largest example about 1 inch, 1 line 

 (28 millim.) ; breadth about ts inch (10 millim.). In this specimen 

 the flagellum of the antennae is about 30-jointed, but in the smaller 

 example (length f inch, 21 millim.) only about 21-jointed." 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



GEOLOGICAL SECTION FROM MOSCOW TO SIBERIA AND RETURN. 

 BY Dr. PERSIFOR FRAZER. 



The accompanying notes were made during the excursion to the 

 Ourals which was arranged by the local committee for a certain 

 number of Geologists before the business session of the Seventh 

 International Geological Congress at St. Petersburg. In addition 

 to the complete preparations for the expedition, carefully edited 

 brochures of its different parts were printed by those Russian 

 geologists who had devoted especial study to the districts. So far 

 as the excursionists were concerned the section was necessarily one 

 of inspection and verification of what had been done, rather than 

 one of exploration for the establishment of new facts, and con- 

 sequently, in a description like the following, the data secured in 

 the years of long and patient investigation by the Geological Survey 

 of Russia have been used so far as this epitome required them. 



The lessons learned by the numerous, long and well planned 

 excursions made in connection with the Congress, begin appropriately 

 with the study of Moscow and its environs, for here many of the 

 geological stages which form the most important points of orienta- 

 tion in the study of south-eastern and middle Russia are well 

 developed and have been thoroughly investigated by numerous 

 geologists. 



In general terms Moscow is a city of very large area occupying 

 a number of hills from 400 to 500 ft. above the average water level, 

 which latter, at the southern boundary, is 348 ft. above the ocean. 

 The hills are cut out of the boulder clay and morainic sand, the 

 Cretacic, the Jura-Cretacic, (or Volgian), and the Jurassic down to 

 the middle Carbonic (or Muscovian), on which the latter rests ; by 

 the Moskowa, the Yaouza, the Neglinnaia and their little tributaries. 

 The lowest Mesozoic rocks overlying the Carbonic are of Middle 

 Callovian age, and in the eastern part, of the government of 

 Moscow they rest on the upper Carbonic rocks, chemically more 

 altered than the Muscovian which form " the rocky base on which 

 the ancient capital is built." [See Livret Guide, I.J, Borings 

 undertaken to find artesian water in the Devonic have revealed 

 27 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



the following measured section from the summit of one of the hills 



473 ft. above water level. 



Feet. 



Argilo-arenaceous Quaternary and Mesozoic 70 



Middle Carbonic (Muscovian) limestones 592 



Lower Carbonic limestones, 243 



Coal bearing Argilo-arenaceous stage of the same horizon, 161 

 Devonic limestones and Marls, 438 



Total, 1504 



The bottom of the bore hole was left in the horizon last mentioned. 



Briefly stated the middle Carbonic or Muscovian of the vicinity 

 of Moscow is typical of this stage, containing many fossil forms of 

 which half are identical with those found in lower beds of the 

 Carbonic of western Europe, while others have been found for the 

 first time in the Muscovian. 



The Jurassic fauna is practically in perfect accord with that of 

 western Europe, except that the Sequanian is not suspectible of 

 differentiation and the Kimmeridgian is petrographically and 

 stratigraphically confounded with the overlying Volgian. 



On the question of the Volgian appears the first of several sub- 

 jects of debate among the Russian geologists. The author of the 

 brochure (L. G., I.) M. Nikitin thus defines the Volgian to which 

 he gave the tiame : — 



" The Volgian comprises all those deposits in central and northern 

 Russia which are found between the beds of the Kimmeridgian of 

 Hoplites eudoxus and those of the middle Neocomian, lower part of 

 the upper Neocomian (Hauterivian) stage containing Olcostephanus 

 versicolor." The author, while admitting the possibility that in many 

 parts of Russia where the Volgian is represented by only a portion 

 of its beds, the explanation may be found in the non-deposition or 

 subsequent erosion of the missing parts, inclines to the opinion that 

 so far as the vicinity of Moscow is concerned the apparent absence of 

 Kimmeridgian is caused by the insufficient preservation of fossils, 

 while the absence of the upper Volgian and of the middle Neo- 

 comian is to be attributed to the first two mentioned reasons. 



These measures have been principally studied by Nikitin, Bogos- 

 lovsky and Pavlov of the University of Moscow. 



Nikitin thinks that the Volgian group possesses a type of its own 

 not recognized in the classification and terminologies of western 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Europe, and prefers not to attempt its division between the upper 

 Jurassic and the lower Cretacic until a great deal more work has 

 been accomplished. Bogoslovsky terminates the upper Volgian at 

 the horizon Olcostephanus nodiger which he considers the upper- 

 most limit of Jurassic as that of Hoplites Rjasanensis is of the 

 Neocomian and the bed Olc. polyptychic and Olc. hoplitoides the 

 principal lower bed of the Neocomian. 



Pavlov, while accepting the succession of the others, classes the 

 entire Volgian group with the Jurassic, adding also a part of the 

 Neocomian of western Europe. 



With this preliminary glance at the formations in the vicinity 

 of Moscow, we were prepared to enter upon the first of the great 

 excursions, or that to the Ourals. The start was S. E. down the 

 Moskwa on the Moscow-Riazan Railway, which runs over the lower 

 arenaceous member of the boulder clay or the eluvion which was 

 laid down upon it after the erosion of the morainic upper part. To 

 Bykowa the cuts and pits show white stratified sands belonging to 

 the upper Volgian. S. E. of Lioubertzy the surface of the hills is 

 said to be formed of sands and sandstones, partially modified to 

 quartzite containing ammonites typical of the zone of Olcostephanus 

 nodiger and Oxynoticeras subclypeiforme. The lower Volgian is 

 found at Miatchkowo resting on gray and black stratified clays 

 with intercalations of dark brown argillaceous, combustible schists, 

 28 to 33 ft. in thickness, corresponding in general to the Oxfordian 

 and Sequanian. M. Nikitin was led to conclude from a study of 

 this series that at least in central Russia there exists an intimate 

 connection between the beds of Cardioceras cordatum and those of 

 C. alternans, which appears not only in the continuation of the 

 greater part of the conchifers and gasteropods from one horizon to 

 the other, but also in the gradual change and passage of some forms 

 of ammonites and other species [L. G., II.]. This conclusion is of 

 the greatest importance to the student of the Jurassic in Central 

 Russia. 



Pursuing the route through the government of Riazan along the 

 river Pronia, the lower Volgian and upper Jurassic representatives 

 are seen to disappear so that the horizon Hoplites Rjasanensis rests 

 successively, first on the Oxfordian and later, near the town of 

 Skopine, on the Callovian. The Carbonic limestones also show 

 gradually descending outcrops from the lower stages of the Mus- 

 covian, through the different levels of the lower limestones of 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Productus giganteus and finally to the lower coal in the neighbor- 

 hood of Riajsk and Skopine. The quaternary boulder clay of 

 this region contains large blocks of crystalline and quartzitic rocks 

 from Finland. All these quaternary deposits of this region are 

 covered by a dark brown or black soil, which the Russian investi- 

 gators agree to divide into two classes. 1st. the " tschernozem " 

 properly so-called, which is dark brown or black, 0'5 meter or 

 more in thickness, rich in humus, lime and zeolites, formed in 

 place by the alteration of various superficial deposits, etc. 



2. Forest earth, also dark brown or black, but of different physico- 

 chemical constitution. 



It may be true, however, that the tschernozem of the steppes 

 when covered by forests is gradually transformed into forest earth. 

 These two kinds of soil and the resulting steppe and forest alter- 

 nate in the region between the Pronia and the Volga. The line 

 of route from Riajsk through Pensa to the neighborhood of Syzran 

 follows the great trans-Siberian railway over upper Cretacic and 

 lower Tertiary steppes of moderate glacial interest, and considerable 

 monotony, but at the latter place there is an abrupt change. 



About 760 km. from Moscow by railway, or 1,400 km. from the 

 head-waters of the Volga not far from St. Petersburg, a sudden 

 change in the landscape and surroundings on close approach to the 

 great river indicates that some special forces have been at work in 

 this neighborhood. In the first place, the Volga, after pursuing a 

 generally south direction from Kazan, abruptly turns to the east 

 for about sixty kilometers while skirting the north flank of the 

 Jegouli Mountains, but here breaking through them perpendicular to 

 the axis of their prolongation, and leaving a large enough mass on 

 the left bank to act as one of the two posts of the gates of Samara, it 

 returns in a direction parallel and opposite to that by which it had 

 come, and finally resumes its southerly course with some slight westing 

 toward the Caspian Sea, distant about 1,000 kilometers. It appears 

 that a gentle anticlinal, with an axis running northerly, and recog- 

 nized further to the north in the tilted Permian limestones of the 

 right bank of the Volga, has suffered a local dislocation resulting 

 in a fault cutting through it almost at right angles, and bent in the 

 west flank. The fault passes along the north side of the peninsula, 

 which is called Samarskaia Louka, after the large city opposite its 

 extreme point. Both sides of this fault-line the measures dip 

 S.S.E., but the north side has been depressed, while that to the south 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



has been elevated. In the depression of the river Syzran the depos- 

 its of the Caspian have been laid down. Following the Syzran River 

 down stream over its easterly course to join the Volga, one sees to the 

 south of the fault the successive appearance of ever older measures, 

 from the upper through the lower Cretacic, the Volgian, the Callo- 

 vian, and, finally, near the town of Syzran, the upper Carbonic. 

 The railway runs along the heights commanding the town of Syzran, 

 which consist of Jurassic and Volgian, but as soon as it has passed 

 that town it descends and runs along the right bank of the Volga, 

 on the terrace of these formations resting on the Carbonic limestone, 

 to the village of Batraki, south of the Samarskaia Louka. Thence 

 a short distance down the Volga ( + 15 km.) one reaches Kasbpour. 

 On the hill of this name one sees in succession downward from the 

 top various horizons of the Cretacic, the Volgian, and finally the 

 river deposits. Above Batraki, a less distance, one comes to the 

 great bridge of the trans-Siberian railway across the Volga, 1,485 

 meters long, on twelve piers, and estimated at 150 ft. above the 

 river. At the abutments the Carbonic deposits are compact lime-' 

 stones more or less dolomitic, containing Fusulina and saturated 

 with asphalt as at Syzran. 



The orographic feature of the approach to Syzran is the eleva- 

 tion caused by the fault passing north of the Samarskaia Louka, 

 at the great bend of the Volga. The part of this elevation 

 at and west of Syzran is called the Syzran Mountains, that of 

 the nucleus of the peninsula the Jegouli, and on the opposite or 

 left bank of the river, the Mountains of Sok. The main mass of 

 these mountains is composed of Permian-measures ; but in the neigh- 

 borhood of Samara, as at Samarskaia Louka, deposits with shells of 

 Cardium, Corbieula and Hydrobia give the impression that these 

 are the remains of the the Caspian basin. The terrace clays are 

 distinctly laid on the Permian, but the Caspian sediments which are 

 only of insignificant thickness, are found in detached islands, and 

 may be seen far up on the heights of the Volga throughout the 

 whole course from Kashpour. The upper beds of the Permian at 

 Samara are compact limestones with intercalations and masses of 

 gypsum and silex, which have made the construction of the railroad 

 bed very difficult in places on account of the tendency to landslides. 

 The lower Permian beds, oolitic in places, are rich in lamellibranchs, 

 gasteropods and brachyopods characteristic of the Permian. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Below, there is a cavernous brecciforni limestone formed of 

 fragments of limestone cemented together by calcareous matter, but 

 without fossils. It is about 83 feet thick, occurs about 4 kilom. up 

 the Volga from Samara, and forms a large part of the upper part of 

 the Mountains of Sok. Some kilometers before reaching the con- 

 fluence of the Volga and Sok the Carbonic limestone shows itself 

 beneath the brecciated limestone in the sandy beds as in the moun- 

 tains of Jegouli. The upper horizon shows Schwagerina limestone. 

 Separated from the Sok Mountains by the valley of that name is the 

 mountain or hill called Tzarev-Kourgan (Hill of the Tsar). It 

 shows in descending order from the top : Limestone with Fusulina 

 longissima and other Fusulinas, Spiriferina Tarance, and Productus 

 Villiersi. 



(d) Limestone with Bellerophon, large, as yet undetermined 

 Spirifers, Nautilus, Orthoceras. 



(c) Dolomites with Productus Cora. 



(6) Limestone of Productus scabriculus, Camarophoria crumena, 

 Meekella eximia. 



(a) Limestone of corals and bryozoans. 



The Hill of the Tsar is thus formed by the same limestones as 

 those constituting the greater part of the Jegouli, and like that of 

 the fauna of gshelien age near Moscow. 



The long distance from Samara to Oufa over the trans- Volgian 

 steppes is over the Permo-Trias and the Permian. The modelling 

 of the country is so strikingly like that of the bad lands of South 

 Dakota and other parts of the western United States that no one 

 who had seen both could fail to be struck by the resemblance. The 

 geology would seem to be of the simplest, viz. : the very gradual 

 succession of continually lower horizons from the Volga to the 

 Ourals. 



But we come unexpectedly here upon another burning question 

 which divides the geologists of the official survey and others from 

 Stuckenburg, Kratov, Netchatev, Amalitzky and still others. The 

 Geological Survey sees in these beds which it marks P T., and which 

 lie between the Permian and Trias, a series of transitional deposits 

 not closely analogous to those in similar horizons in central Europe, 

 and proposes for them provisionally the name Tartarian. The 

 opponents of this view class all the upper beds of the iridescent 

 marls as Permian. The Russian Survey recognizes two series of 

 red and iridescent rocks. The first it calls the Tartarian, which 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



caps the beds of Zechstein fauna, and the other lies below the Zech- 

 stein, corresponding in part with its lowest horizons. 



As approach is made to Oufa one after the other of the dis- 

 tinguishing beds in the two formations rises slowly and loses itself 

 farther east on the tops of the nearest hills. The gray group of 

 schistose limestone and marls intercalated with friable sandstone 

 marking next to the uppermost member of the Permian, recognized 

 by the Russian Survey, shows itself for the last time on the summit 

 of Yarych-Taou, the last of the conical mountains of erosion along 

 the Dioma. The appearance of a red group in the sections near 

 Oufa has caused many geologists to ascribe this horizon to the 

 Tartarian, which the geologists of the survey hold to be an error, 

 maintaining that the ravines and sections establish beyond doubt 

 that the measures increase in age as one goes eastward. 



Oufa may be properly said to lie on the line which marks the 

 foot of the Ourals, because at about this distance from the axis of the 

 Oural chain the streams having broken through the west flanking 

 foot hills of the main chain take the final courses to fulfil their 

 ultimate destiny of irrigating and fructifying the trans- Volgian 

 steppes. 



The Permian plateau on which Oufa stands is cut by three 

 rivers : the Oufa, the Sim, and the Bieleia, into three elevated 

 plateaux separated by deep and rich valleys. The immediate neigh- 

 borhood of Oufa has not furnished distinctive fossils, but the sections 

 along the Bieleia and its affluents have convinced the geological 

 surveyors that the upper part of the section at Oufa corresponds 

 with the lower Permian red bed which is capped by the gray arena- 

 ceous Zechstein bed, richly furnished with fossils that can be seen in 

 the sections of Slak, the mountains Yarych-Taou, etc., between 

 Samara and Oufa. The lower gypsiferous and calco-gypsiferous bed 

 at the base of the Oufa section can be seen to have intimate relations 

 with the gray, compact, tile-like limestones, and dolomites, and the 

 cavernous, spotted brecciform limestones containing many casts of 

 Beilerophon, remains of Productus and Orthoceras, accompanied by 

 Schizodus truncatus, Astarte Pernio- Car bonico, Macrodium kingia- 

 num, and corresponds to the lower Zechstein of southern and central 

 Russia, situated below the lowest bed of Permian red. [See L. G., 

 III.] 



As an aid in understanding the orography of the western half of 

 the Ourals (from which the eastern half is entirely different) let it be 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



borne in mind that the westward flowing streams usually have their 

 origin in extensive marshes and bogs lying in the elevated parts of 

 the longitudinal valleys, and covering many square wersts 1 or kilo- 

 meters. The first part of their course, or that more or less on the 

 line of the meridian north or south, is usually rapid and tumultuous. 

 In their middle course they take a sudden change in a direction at 

 right angles to their final course and descending with the same 

 rapidity cut through gorges ten wersts or so in length with abrupt 

 and sometimes vertical walls 100 meters and more in height. 



Having passed the westernmost rocky barrier the rivers flow 

 sluggishly through large alluvial valleys in which rock in place is 

 rarely seen, and the affluents of the larger streams are few and small. 

 These valleys are filled with the remains of ancient river and lake 

 beds, and show distinctly alluvial terraces. 



Having brought the section to the lower Permian spotted lime- 

 stones and dolomites the further journey east reveals a series to 

 which the name Permo-Carbonic has been given. 2 



This band separating the two groups is divided into an upper or 

 calcareo-dolomitic, and a lower member called the horizon of Artiusk. 

 This latter contains sandstones, limestones, marls and various 

 schists. Karpinsky, Kratow and Tschernischew have shown that 

 it is characterized by original ammonitides of great interest since 

 the discovery of similar forms at Darvas in Sicily, in Texas, and 

 other places. It contains brachiopods also, of which the study has 

 established the connection of the different subdivisions of the Pro- 

 ductus limestone of the salt range with the paleozoic deposits of the 

 Oural. 



The Carbonic of the South Oural consists exclusively of three 

 sections of limestones each, and especially the uppermost, character- 

 ized by an abundant fauna. 



The Devonic is also represented here in all of its three sections, 

 of which the lower is much the most interesting, both because to it 

 is attributed the rocks forming the highest chains of the Ourals, and 

 because it is therefore the real crux in the geology of these mountains 

 which is destined to give rise to a voluminous literature, and remain 

 a moot point among geologists for many years to come. The middle 

 division of the Devonic is also of interest as frequently containing a 



1 Eleven kilometers are reckoned equal to ten wersts. 



2 It would have been more in conformity with usuge had the name been 

 Carbono-Permian. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



413 



development of its limestones and marls in innumerable swellings or 

 lumps of various sizes from a few inches to a few feet in diameter, 

 which on examination prove to consist either of concentric cabbage- 

 like layers, or of irregular foliations like the bent leaves of a book. 



The immensely important conditions which follow from the 

 acceptation of the Russian Survey's determination of the relations 

 of the rocks forming the Oural-Taou, or main chain of the Oural, 

 makes it desirable to consider it a little more attentively. 



The Oural-Taou, or main chain, and water-divide of those moun- 

 tains is formed of crystalline schistose rocks, which are in intimate 

 connection with deposits of indisputable paleozoic age, and which 

 themselves are nothing but modified paleozoic rocks. This is the 

 terse summing up of the thesis [L. G., Ill, 12], and the argument is 

 contained in the ideal section (ib., p. 11), in which the lower Devonic 

 member is shown to be a quartzite lying in a synclinal between 

 schists and limestones above and below ; and the lower of these lime- 

 stones is stated to contain no fossils by which its age can be definitely 

 ascertained in the northern Oural region. But in the South Ouralsit 

 contains an extensive fauna described by Tschernischew. 



if.ir. 



Section from +he 7L\a<r{\ qn "ho +he Avn\r\r 



(from Livret" GuideUE . pit) 



Fig. 1. 

 Df Limestone. Upper stage of the Lower Devonic. 

 DJ g Quartzose sandstone and schists. 

 D\ c Limestones. 

 M Metamorphic schists and quartzites. 



The section representing the views of the Russian Geological 

 Survey as to the structure of the Oural chain is seen in L. G., Ill, 

 p. 11, and is thus described by M. Tschernischew: — 



" The most instructive section of the lower Devonic of the south 

 Ourals extends south of the line of railway, from the chain of 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Zigalga to Avniar transversely to the direction of the Zigalga and 

 of the Bakti and crossing the rivers Yourezan, Avniar, and Bieleia. 

 This section shows the principal mass of the bed of quartzose sand- 

 stone D} g between two schistose beds of which the lower rests 

 directly on the oldest limestones Dl c of characteristic fauna. The 

 predominant rock of the lower schistose bed is a black sericitic 

 schist reflecting on its steel-gray surface, sometimes a silky lustre. 

 Quite often is observed the passage of these schists into micaceous 

 and chloritic varieties, very rich in magnetite and hematite. Taking 

 up quartz these schists pass into micaceous and talcose quartzites. 

 In places the black argillaceous schist shows inclusions of large 

 pyrite crystals, and pseudomorphs of pyrite in limonite." 



'This black schist is associated in the lower part of the bed D} g 

 with a serecitic schist nearly of the same composition as the black, 

 but poorer in carbonaceous matter and consequently of a lighter 

 shade.' 



' After a certain amount of practice it is easy to distinguish the 

 lower schists, situated under the horizon of quartzites and sandstones, 

 from the schists which surmount this horizon. The latter of very 

 variable color, structure, and composition never have this reflexion 

 on the plane surface but they pass also, though very rarely, and in 

 exceptional cases, into chloritic and ottrelitic schists. Their color, 

 sometimes banded, varies between dark gray almost black, yellowish, 

 greenish, and reddish gray. Marly sandstone, marls, and limestones 

 occupy a second rank in the bed Dl g.' 



'A series of rocks Dl g separates, as we have said, two beds of 

 limestone essentially different from a paleontological point of view. 

 The upper limestones D^ g of which the type is developed in the 

 Yourezan valley encloses subordinate beds of argillaceous schists 

 and marly sandstones. Their paleontological character is described 

 in the paper, ' Die Fauna des unteren Devon am Westabhange des 

 Ural,' by Th. Tschernischew. This horizon is especially character- 

 istic by its abundance of Leperditia Barboti, small trilobites of the 

 genus Cyphaspis, Pentamerus fasciculatus, Pentamerus baschkiricus, 

 remains of conchifers Conocardium erenatum, Buchiola sexcostata 

 and other forms.' 



'The lower limestones Dj c capped by the bed D\ g and often 

 found between metamorphic rocks (as in the upper course of the 

 Bieleia), are distinguished by their lighter tints, and a marble 

 structure. Their fauna described in the above work by Tschernis- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



chew is distinguished by a great variety of forms; i. e., numerous 

 remains of ostracodes, cephalopoda, Platyceras, representatives of 

 Hercynella (H. bohemica), and peculiar conchifers ( Vlasta Dalila)." 



In the section this limestone apparently rests conformably on the 

 group "M" of metamorphic schists and quartzites, which is thus 

 assumed to be of lower Devonic origin. 



The lower division of the Devonic is thus described (1. c, 10) : 



" It has great petrographic diversity. The varieties most devel- 

 oped include quartzose sandstone without feldspar, arkoses and 

 conglomerates. These are the rocks that form the ridges of the most 

 considerable parallel chains of the South Oural. In the eastern 

 summits is observed a gradual transition from sandstone, arkoses 

 and conglomerates, to compact quartzites, charged more or less with 

 mica. The lower schist is a black sericitic schist, giving a steel gray 

 sometimes silky reflexion on the surface. Frequently the passage 

 of these schists to micaceous and chloritic varieties, very rich in 

 magnetite and iron oxide, can be observed. Taking up quartz these 

 schists pass into micaceous and talcose quartzites. In places the 

 black argillaceous schist shows inclusions of large crystals of pyrite 

 and pseudomorphs of pyrite in limonite. This black schist is asso- 

 ciated in the lower part of the bed D\ g with a sericitic schist 

 nearly of the same composition as the black, but poorer in carbona- 

 ceous matter, and therefore of lighter color." 3 



" The rock most largely developed in the underlying group M 

 is a mica schist composed of quartz and mica, to which is ordinarily 

 joined a greater or less quantity of chlorite and magnetite. The 

 element of greatest interest in these mica schists, and chloritic mica 

 schists, is the orthose, which occurs in irregular and often broken 

 fragments. Very often these are enclosed in grains of quartz or 

 mica. Indications of the substitution of quartz and mica abound in 

 the cleavage of these orthoses. Tourmaline, and in the neighbor- 

 hood of Slatooust, garnets and staurotide are the most frequent in- 

 clusions in the mica schists." 



" Besides these schists the crystalline region comprises M a series of 

 argillo-schistose rocks which show the transition of typical phyllites 

 into the clastic argillaceous schists of the lower Devonic. The 

 massive rocks of M are represented only by granites and diabases. 

 Among the granites can be distinguished the gneisso-granites and the 

 coarsely crystalline porphyritic granites resembling what is called 

 Rappakiwi from Finland, which is much used for building, and forms 



3 See preceding page. 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



the pillars of St. Isaak's as well as the parapet of the Neva within the 

 city of St. Petersburg. 



Such is the veriest skeleton outline of the facts of structure 

 stated by M. Tschernischew in L. G., Ill, and which he illustrated 

 by the nine days of excursions between Oufa and the crest or 

 median line of the Ourals. A point of the greatest interest, but 

 connected with the structure at the uppermost extremity of the 

 scale must not be forgotten for it constitutes a lesson of the trip 

 second in importance to no other. It is in effect that the ex- 

 plorations of the river terraces of the Bielaia leave no doubt of 

 the relations between the upper terraces and the post pliocene 

 deposits of the Caspian sea invasion. The conclusion is that these 

 upper terraces belong to an epoch, when the Caspian Sea played the 

 part of a dyke which brought about the raising of the level of the 

 Kama, the Bieleia and their affluents with the consequent decrease 

 of the rapidity of their currents and therefore of their erosive force. 

 In proportion to the retreat of the Caspian sea, the erosive power 

 of the rivers must have augmented, from which resulted the narrow- 

 ing and deepening of these beds and the formation of terraces. 

 This latitude is about that of the northernmost deposits, attributed to 

 the former Caspian Sea, (57° North), while the southernmost similar 

 formation ascribed to the action of the White or Northern Sea lies 

 approximately on lat. 61° North, leaving 4° or about 440 kilo- 

 meters (273 miles) in which the traces of neither sea have been 

 found, but in their places the evidences of lacustrian remains filling 

 the gap. 



The route from Oufa was along the post pliocene terrace of 

 the River Sim, to the upper Carbonic limestone mountain, Kyssy- 

 Taou, containing Schwagerina, while on the left were the lower 

 Permo-Carbonic deposits of Artinsk. Descending the mountain 

 again to the terrace, this latter is followed to the station Ascha. 

 Proceeding in general northeast beyond this the course is over 

 upper Carbonic limestones. Just before reaching the mouth 

 of the river Karagai-Elga, this formation suddenly gives place to 

 the middle Devonic across a fault, visible on both banks of the 

 Sim. A little below the confluence of the Chalcow and the Sim, 

 one sees the cabbage structure of the upper division of the lower 

 Devonic. Near the mouth of the Biarda the superposition of D| on 

 DJ is seen. Miniar is soon reached lying at the foot of a series of 

 picturesque hills formed of DL The next undertaking was the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



examination of the rocks from Miniar to Simskaia. The cliffs 

 were made np (counting from the base) of lower Devonic lime- 

 stones (D*), the limestones and dolomites (D|), the Spirifer 

 Archiaci limestones (D 3 ), and the lower Carbonic limestones C r 

 Below the Miniar works the D|, limestones show in places the 

 cabbage structure. About the mouth of the Kalosleika the lower 

 Carbonic limestones crop out containing an abundance of foramen i- 

 fera, (Eudothyra parva, Fusulinella Struvii, Arclmdiscus Karreri, 

 and fragments of Produetus striatus and Chonetes papilionacea.) 

 The borders of the lake of Simsk offer a classical section for the 

 study of the deposits of Artinsk, and Carbonic sediments. 



The journey was continued up the valley of the Eralka and down 

 the valley of the river Berdiach, still in the deposits of Artinsk. 

 At the (Baschkir) village of Yakhia the Carbonic limestones are 

 again met. 



These show themselves all along the route to Oust-Kataw, where 

 the fossil remains are very abundant. 



Between Oust-Kataw and Wiazowaia the same Devonic series 

 is several times repeated. At Wiazowaia the railway was left 

 and a section was made in drosckkes to the mines of Bakal. 

 The succession D, D], D 2 2 , is thrice repeated between Wiazowaia 

 and the village of Perwoukhina the highest crests being formed 

 of the first named bed, which, two faults successively raise. It is 

 in these three mountains Chouida, Irkouskan and Boulandikha, (all 

 of lower Devonic), that the very rich iron ores of Bakal are found. 

 They have been worked for a century and a half but as yet and 

 for a long time in the future the work has been and will be done in 

 open cuts. The variegated quartzites and quartzose schists are cut 

 by dykes and massives of diabase. 



The mineral masses of Hematite and Siderite are exclusively found 

 in the middle member of the above series or the variegated schists 

 where they are sometimes 40 meters and more in thickness. Besides 

 this the minerals show themselves sometimes iu pockets. A glance 

 is sufficient to show the intimate connection between the dolomitic 

 limestones and the mineral deposits. One can follow step by step 

 the transition of the limestones into spathic iron and that into 

 hematite. When the mines were first exploited only Hematite was 

 found at a short distance from the surface, since then in proportion 

 to the depth of the workings spathic iron has been found with 

 passage into dolomitic limestone. The mines of Bakal and Satkinsk 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



were examined and the return to the railway was made at the 

 station Souleia over Devonic measures. 



From Souleia to Slatooust the upper divison of lower Devonic 

 D* is passed over as well as Dj. Near the station Berdiaouch the 

 dolomites D| are seen with thick dykes of porphyroid granite 

 intercalated among them and resembling the Finland Rappakiwi. 

 Between Berdiaouch and Toundouch the line pursues the horizon 

 of the Devonic limestones and dolomites, showing frequently the 

 foliated structure below described. 



Finally a complex succession of rocks begins at the village of 

 Medwediova containing limestones, schists and argillaceous and 

 sericitic sandstones, mica schists, diabases, araphibolites and gneiss, 

 all thrown into folds of high dip and penetrated by faults. The 

 mutual relations of the massive rocks, crystalline schists and the 

 quartzites of Ourenga and Kossotour are clearly seen in the sections 

 near Slatooust. This town lies in a picturesque valley of the river Ai. 

 The Kossotour and Ourenga heights which border it, on the north 

 and south respectively are similarly composed and are parts of the 

 same orographic unit. 



Under the leadership of Mr. Tscherneschew, Kossotour was 

 reached by a brisk walk through the woods from the station of 

 Slatooust and sections were made along the river Ai, showing coarse 

 grained mica schists and amphibulite, containing large Garnets, 

 diabase, garnetiferous mica schists, diabase, mica schists, massive 

 diabase containing an abundance of secondary products and strongly 

 altered, mica schist of Biotite, Muscovite, Quartz, and Epidotes, 

 enclosing large Garnets; diabase, mica schists with Almandine; 

 amphibolite more or less schistose, and mica schists with small 

 garnets. 



A section in the railway cut near the station from southwest to 

 northeast, showed a series of mica schists dipping ± southeast — 65°. 

 There are many inclusions of milk quartz and the bedding becomes 

 thicker to the north-east, after the first 100 ft., but the general 

 character of the rocks is comparatively uniform and resembles that 

 of some American rocks, called by the late Dr. Hunt "Taconic." 

 About 200 ft. from the commencement of the section is a mass 

 of quartzite and further to the north-east again mica schists, 

 followed by garnetiferous schist, the Garnets being large and 

 round. To these succeed more mica schists, intercalated among 

 which appeared other small outcrops of quartzite. The railway 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



cut is about 400 ft. long with two sigmoid curves. One hundred and 

 fifty feet from tbe northeast end a very much decomposed grayish 

 layer occurs containing Garnets, some of them flattened on the planes 

 of bedding. About 75 ft. from the northeast extremity a mass of 

 white quartz occupies a large space and penetrates to the surface 

 of the cut above, embedded in the mica schist. Another mass of 

 white quartz strikes across the railway, south 20° west, mica schists 

 follow this to the end of the cutting. 



The next object of study was the Bolchoi Taganai (or Great 

 Taganai). There are three mountains called Taganai, viz: Bolchoi 

 (or great), Sredny (or medium) and Maly (or small) north of Sla- 

 tooust, which are connected together and with the Oural-Taou or main 

 chain and water-divide by high plateaux. They are separated from 

 the north flank of Kossotour by the valley of the river Bolchaia- 

 Tessma. 



All of these heights are composed similarly of a quartzite summit 

 overlying a friable sandstone with kaolinized Feldspar, and this 

 latter resting on garnetiferous mica schist with subordinated lime- 

 stones. The dips being to the north-west, faults with a southeast 

 hade repeat this succession, three times, the easternmost repetition, 

 being the lowest but the most extensively developed and formed by 

 the chain Oural-Taou. On the east side the heights are abrupt 

 precipices, but on the west they are gently inclined and accessible. 



The river Kiolim, which traverses the Ourals and forms part of the 

 Siberian river system, descends this divide to the north, the river 

 Tessma an affluent of the Si, taking its course to the south, 

 where it ultimately joins the waters of the Caspian Sea. At the 

 base of the Bolchoi-Taganai (called Otkliknoi) occur outcrops of 

 diabases. The words of M. Tschernischew are herewith repeated. 

 " The detailed study of our section demonstrates that all the Taganais 

 show the same succession of rocks rent by a series of faults. It is 

 equally beyond doubt that the quartzites of the Taganais correspond 

 completely with the quartzites and sandstones of the lower Devonic that 

 we have already encountered on our trip to the mines of Bakal and 

 environs. It results indubitably that the metamorphic rocks which 

 support the quartzites of the Taganais are the same clastic modified 

 rocks of the lower Devonic developed in the more western parts of the 

 Ourals." 



A study was made of the but little altered Devonic measures near 

 the works of Koussinsk where there is an outcrop of dolomitic lime- 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



stone dipping to the southeast and constituting the " mountain " 

 Silitour. In the neighborhood of Koussinsk also are interesting 

 examples of the limestones with the foliated bosses often heretofore 

 referred to. These limestones belong to the middle Devonic 

 (horizons DI b with Spirifer Anossofi, and Di; a with Pentamerus 

 bashkiricus). 



On July 30-( August 11), the train was run back from Slatooust 

 on the road some 20 kilometers to the "platform" (flag station) Kous- 

 sinskaja, and the excursionists were taken in droschkes twelve wersts 

 south to an exploitation of a mine called Schichimskaja Gora. This 

 was simply a cut in the face of the hill of 100 feet or more in width, 

 exposing talc and chlorite slate cut by porphyritic diorite. Many 

 minerals occur at this contact, which may be found described in 

 L. G. IV, 3 -(-. Returning to the platform, we started after breakfast 

 to the town and smelting works 14 wersts north of Koussinsk, where 

 the pretty iron ornaments sold in Slatooust are made. The start was 

 up a long ascent of the mountain Lipowaia. At a considerable hill 

 called Silitour, just outside of the town, our examination was made 

 of a contact between diabase and the lowest member of the middle 

 Devonic limestone, where M. Tschernischew maintains there is 

 alteration at only one of the two contact planes. 



The ascent of the water-divide of the Oural, was accomplished in 

 the train by crossing the Tessma and turning south, where a series 

 of iron ore mines lying between the metamorphic rocks and the 

 dolomitic limestones is passed. The mines are mostly abandoned. 

 The limestones cover stratified deposits of hematite. The rocks are 

 much dislocated, but maintain a general direction of N. 30° E. The 

 dolomitic limestones correspond to limestones D\ c of the upper part 

 of the Bielaia and the mines of Bakal. On the east of the railroad 

 the mica schists are cut by granites. In the two great zigzags made 

 by the railroad in mounting the height, it traverses a development 

 of garnet rocks analogous to those seen at Slatooust (Kossotour and 

 Ourenga). 



About 3 wersts from Ourjum station, which is almost on the 

 divide, in the rocky crest of Alexandrovskaia Sopka, composed of 

 the same quartzites, as those of the Bolchoi-Taganai, the highly 

 inclined beds dip toward the European side of the Ourals. The 

 Asiatic side is covered with detritus and blocks. 



We have now arrived at the divide and seen all the rocky series 

 which are displayed on its west side. These series starting from 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Oufa may be resumed in the letters employed by the Russian Survey, 

 as Permian (P), Permo-Carbonic (PC), Carbonic (C), Devonic (D), 

 and finally the material which constitutes the divide called M, and 

 thought by the official geologists to be metamorphosed Devonic. 



It is supposed that the upper and lower black schists are part of 

 D} g and that D} c and Df are conformable with them. The 

 demonstration turns upon this. Beneath D\ c come the schists 

 and quartzites marked metamorphic. It does not clearly appear 

 how the limestones are superposed on it, but unless M be altered 

 Devonic, this is of minor importance. No one would dream of 

 calling in question the accuracy of the Russian geologists who have 

 proposed this structure, without weeks or months of hard and 

 patient labor in the field. To do so would be to show an unpardon- 

 able ignorance of the difficulties of the problem and a poor recogni- 

 tion of the accurate work which these gentlemen have accomplished. 

 But they will not consider it disrespectful if some of their recent 

 guests declare that they are not entirely convinced of the Devonic 

 character of these quartzites and schists which form the Oural divide. 

 Only general considerations extenuating this inability to accept the 

 Russian Survey's determination as final are here in order. In the 

 first place the time was not sufficient to observe the contacts M-D} c 

 and Dl c-D} g, and DJ g-Df . The first two of these are nowhere so 

 explicitly stated in the Livret Guide as to establish the impossibility 

 of faults. The absence of fossils where these beds were seen deprives 

 us of much needed light. Then again the absence of such impor- 

 tant orographic elements as the entire Siluric, Cambric, and 

 Archean is very hard to accept, especially after the investigations 

 of Murchison. The question is one of the highest interest and 

 importance, and it is hoped that more light may be shed upon it in 

 the near future. 



There is another consideration which it must be confessed aids in 

 preventing an immediate and unquestioning acceptance of the 

 Russian structure, although it cannot be dignified by the title of 

 an argument, and can be mentioned as an analogy only and with 

 every reserve. Taken, however, together with the other considera- 

 tions, it is not entirely destitute of weight : — 



If we might for the moment leave out of consideration the horizon 

 of the limestone D} c, and its determination as Devonic we find 

 petrographically an analogy too strong to be overlooked between 

 the sequence of the formations from the crystalline eruptives and 



28 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



massives, and the schistose and calcareous quartzites and sandstones 

 in other countries and in the Ourals. Of course if it be necessary 

 to accept the series D} c as Devonic underlying the quartzite series 

 Di g, this important quartzite member which is petrographically 

 and schematically such a striking analogue of the Cambric (Pots- 

 dam) or Primal quartzite is lost : but even then the group M is not 

 proven to be Devonic or even paleozoic by any evidence which it was 

 possible to present to the participants in such a long and compre- 

 hensive excursion. The writer does not mean in any way to deny 

 that evidence exists which establishes the original paleozoic character 

 of the group M, he only wishes to say that none such was seen by 

 those fellow members of the excursion of whom he inquired. Of 

 course long and patient investigation is required to place a critic of 

 the Russian Survey's proposed structure in a position to exercise his 

 office. If, after all, this scheme is to stand, it will add another 

 feature (and, perhaps, that which caused all the rest) in which the 

 Oural chain stands out alone among the mountain chains of the 

 world. 



Here then is the greatest of the cruces brought to light by the 

 labors of the Russian geologists, and laid before their guests at the 

 recent Congress. It is one which far transcends in interest and 

 importance the Volgian, Tartarian and Permo-Carbonic questions. 



The difference in importance between the problem of such a 

 structure and that of the permanent taxonomic value of the series 

 P-C, P-T, Pb (Tartarian), J-Cr (Volgian), Q K (Caspian), or 

 Cr v (Aptian), is that while in these latter cases the sequence is uni- 

 versally admitted, and the only question is whether the members of 

 these groups should be ascribed to one of the upper or lower series, 

 should be divided between them, or in whole or part should stand 

 alone ; the question in the first case is whether three of the great 

 mountain building systems are entirely wanting in the composition 

 of the Ourals. 



The peculiarity of the Oural chain which most strikes the observer 

 is that approaching from the western side the divide is reached 

 before half of the Paleozoic series are crossed, or any of the continent 

 backbone-making systems have appeared on the surface. From the 

 end of the first quarter of an ordinary mountain chain crossing, one 

 looks over the remaining three-quarters, (or where they ought to be) 

 into the boundless lake-covered steppes of Siberian Asia. But 

 another surprise is in store for the traveller. Approaching the Ourals 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



from the west there is nowhere the bold, rugged landscape that one 

 sees iu the Caucasus or in Switzerland. It is only by looking back 

 on the steep basset edges of the formations that one realizes the 

 mountainous character of the region. But starting from Ourjum 

 to cross the Eur-Asian line, and descending from that line into 

 Siberia towards Miass the mountainous character is lost altogether. 

 As M. Karpinsky justly says (L. G., V. 2) : " On the east slope 

 and at a short distance from the axis the region loses almost at once 

 its mountainous character so completely that, though its geological 

 structure corresponds with a very complex mountain region, the 

 greater part of it presents an area so flat that the relief is less 

 accidented than that of most of the plains of European Russia." 



It is like entering the basement of a house built on the steep side 

 of a hill and climbing to the roof to find that a broad plain stretches 

 itself out from that level. This is the first feature to strike the 

 observer. The second is a corollary of the first, namely the infre- 

 quency of exposures. The third is the enormous development of 

 lakes. At least one-third of the surface of these steppes is covered 

 by water which is supplied from countless bogs and morasses lying 

 in all positions on the east side of the chain from close up to the 

 axis to a distance further than the eye could see. 4 It has been 

 mentioned that the water courses of the western half in their incep- 

 tion follow the longitudinal valleys parallel with the axis of the 

 chain for considerable distances and with considerable rapidity 

 before breaking through the transverse gorges of about 10 wersts or 

 kilometers more or less in length to the main water arteries on 

 the trans- Volgian steppes. The reverse is the case with the Siberian 

 streams. With a very few exceptions their early course is directly 

 away from the axis of the chain, and the flow is parallel to circles 

 of latitude for a very considerable distance. Over this part they 

 flow sluggishly from and through impassable swamps, showing few 

 or no outcrops on their banks. The outcrops occur on the com- 

 paratively elevated country between the water courses. 



On the other hand, in their middle course (which the excursion- 

 ists could not observe) the outcrops of rock in place are reported as 

 commencing to appear in isolated places, becoming more and more 

 frequent, and finally uniting in a continuous outcrop. The river is 



4 The characteristic features of the water courses to the east are taken from 

 theLivret Guide, as the course followed by the excursion did not permit the 

 participants to actually see the second and third divisions here referred to. 




424 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



shut in a narrow bed with rocky banks that often assume the aspect 

 of a veritable gorge of 40 m. (131 ft.) and more in height. 



The country, which appears ordinarily flat, falls away only in the 

 neighborhood of the rivers, where it is broken abruptly into rocky 

 escarpments. The courses of the streams thus display scenery en- 

 tirely different from the surrounding country. Their lower courses 

 are said to be distinguished by large, flat, marshy valleys bounded 



° u 



V > 



Upper Cocir&e, 



Jsk*. 



O 1_ 



v > 





1 — I 



o *- 



^3 > 

 «.. _ 



Middle Coarse 

 •xjV 



I 





I 



>£,,*« .*•*■>*. 



.«. .»'. ,i\*. .Ill, „i„ „<.. „». w 



Lower Course 



( jrorm Livref Qaide "VTf>f>. 5<$r<s>) 



Fig. 2. 



by terraces ordinarily rounded and sometimes cut by ravines. 

 The river meandering in this valley and approaching sometimes 

 one and sometimes the other of these terraces, cuts escarpments more 

 or less deep, sometimes vertical, permitting a view of the tertiary 

 rocks and alluvial deposits. Here and there one sees the remains 

 of old river beds called "staritsa." 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



The following is a free rendering of M. Karpinsky's general de- 

 scription (L. G. V.) : In the most important rivers of the east slope 

 of the Oural, such as the Toura, Taguil, Nitza, Irbit, Pychma, Isset, 

 Sinara, Tetch, Miass, Ouwelka, Oui and Togonzak, the lower course 

 is the most extended. Their western limit coincides almost with 

 the western limit of the region occupied by the tertiary deposits. 

 (See the geological map of the eastern slope of the Oural.) The middle 

 course of these rivers is generally the shortest. The rivers of the 

 Asiatic system of the Ourals are also less abundant in water than 

 those of the European system. The vast lake system of western 

 Asia along the Ourals extends from the very mountain region itself 

 down to the axis of the divide (as in the case of Lake Itkoul, etc.). 



In proportion to the distance from the Oural chain the character 

 of the lakes changes more and more, and several types united by 

 those of intermediate character can be recognized. Between the 

 ramifications of the Ourals and near the boundary between the moun- 

 tain and plain of the east slope, lakes which form on their borders 

 islands and rocky promontories in greater or less number are found 

 scattered far apart in a region constituted essentially by crystalline 

 rocks. Their contours, predominant directions, and distribution, 

 depend habitually on the direction of the schistose crystalline rocks 

 forming the region. In this same direction strings of lakes are 

 found ordinarily enclosed in a belt formed by the same rocks (see 

 on map lakes Silatch, Soungoul, Kerety, Kasli, Irtiach and Bol- 

 chaia-Nanoga, Miassowo, Terenkoul, little and great Kissiagath, 

 Yelowoie and Tschebarkoul). All these lakes have considerable 

 depth even near their shores. Most of them have visible outflows, 

 and their water is always fresh. The lakes of the steppe remote 

 from the Ourals have an entirely different character. Their number 

 is very great, as is the space over which they are distributed, which 

 extends far to the east. 



These latter lakes are found in a region occupied by horizontally 

 stratified tertiary deposits. Their forms are simple, and in spite of 

 their large dimensions they are ordinarily shallow. Near their 

 margins one often sees terraces of rounded forms, a proof that at one 

 time they occupied larger spaces. Regularity is observable neither 

 in the directions of their greatest elongation nor in their grouping. 

 Almost all of these are without efflux. Many of them contain fresh 

 water, though in others the water is saline, and in a part of them 

 salts have been deposited. The salt is predominantly NaCl with 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



MgS0 4 and MgCl r Almost all of these show evidences of gradual 

 drying up. It is worthy of notice that the salinity of the lakes is 

 subject to changes of weather and of the seasons. 



The eastern limit of the crystalline region characterized by lakes 

 of type I is separated from the western boundary of the region of 

 tertiary deposits with the lakes of the steppe by a belt composed 

 partly of sedimentary and partly of massives and elastics (tuffs). The 

 lakes of this belt are characterized by certain characters of each of 

 the foregoing types, i. e., the simple form, and straight and low 

 beaches of the steppe lakes and the rocky islets, and correspondence 

 of the lines of their greatest extension with the strikes of the enclos- 

 ing rocks which are peculiar to the mountain lakes. 



The marshes deserve notice. Some are the beds of old lakes now 

 covered with vegetation. Sometimes the small lakes are covered 

 with a mantle of swampy interlacing vegetation. Others are situated 

 on the belt which divides the rivers, and frequently on the quite 

 steep slopes of the hills, independently of the marshes in evident 

 connection with the lakes. 



Finally there are regions of salt deposits which characterize the 

 east slope of the Oural. The thin sheets of salt which appear from 

 time to time covering even the plants indigenous to saline terraces 

 with a layer of salt, are developed in the saline lake region, but some 

 small deposits are found in the western region and quite high up 

 on the slope. The variation in the distribution of the saline lakes 

 depends not only on the water infiltrated through the soil, but also 

 on the wind scattering the pulverized salt into the lakes for longer or 

 shorter time. 



The rocks most frequently encountered on the east slope of the 

 Ourals are (commencing with the oldest) the lower Devonic (Hercyn. 

 iau), represented by limestones, and containing a fauna described by 

 Tschernischew. Among the characteristic fossils are Eutomis pela- 

 gica, Aristozoe herzinica, Spirifer indiferens, Atrypa reticularis, 

 A. granulifera, Rhynchonella princeps, Rh. nympha, Pentamerus 

 galeatus, P. procerulus, var. gradualis, P. striatus, P. vogulicus, P. 

 pseudoknighti, Slrophomena stephani. The tuffs accompanying the 

 porphyrites contain also organic remains (Pentamerus, Crinoids, 

 etc.). Radiolaria have been discovered by Tschernischew in the 

 jasper of the Ourals. 



The middle Devonic seems to be represented by limestones with 

 corals and stromatopores. Grilnwaldtia latilinguis, Rhynchonella 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



procuboides, Orthis striatula, Pentamerus galeatus and the trilobites 

 near the village of Pokrovskoie in the district of Irbit Phacops 

 feeundus, Anarcestes lateseplatus, Pleurotomaria subcarinata, Tenta- 

 culites acuarius. To the upper Devonic may be classed the lime- 

 stones of Lake Koltouban, Montieocerus intumescens, Spirifer dis- 

 junctus, Sp. Archiaci, etc. The Carbonic system is composed of (1) 

 schistose clays and argillaceous schists, sandstones and conglomer- 

 ates, with intercalations of coal and concretions of Spherosiderite. 

 The organic remains are almost exclusively plants (Lepido- 

 dendron glincanum, Stigmaria ficoides). At times the rocks are 

 much metamorphosed, and the carbonic schists are transformed into 

 graphites with vestiges of plants. (2) Limestone with Productus 

 giganteus Pr. striatus, corals, etc. (3) Limestone of the upper 

 horizons, those of Chartymka, the fauna described by Verneuil. 

 Gastrloceras marianxmx, Pronorites cyclolobus var. uralensis. One 

 hundred species of fossils have been found, of which many have not 

 yet been described. (4) Ordinarily the limestone of Pr. gigant. are 

 replaced above by a schistose limestone, or by a coarse conglomerate, 

 in which the fragments of limestone of different sizes are held 

 together by a calcareous cement. The conglomerates are replaced 

 by sandstones covered by marls or argillaceous limestones finely 

 stratified with subordinate beds of limestones sometimes coralliferous 

 (Chcetetes radians) Syringopora parallela, Spirifer mosquensis. 

 Above this is a clay with Gypsum. 



On the east slope of the Ourals are found islets of mesozoic deposits : 

 clays and sandstones containing lignite. In general the fossils are 

 badly preserved remains of plants. (Asplenium whitbiense var. 

 tenuis, Phyllotheca striata, Prodozamites lanceolatus etc. and remains 

 of Estheria minuta var. karpinskyana.') 



Finally on the east slope of the northern Ourals occurs the upper 

 Jurassic, containing Ammonites ; deposits of lower and upper 

 Cretacic with Baculites beds of upper Cretacic with Belemnitella 

 mucronata, Gryphea vesicularis, etc. 



The tertiary sediments are very remarkable. Commencing at 50 

 to 100 kilometers from the axis they extend in horizontal beds which 

 grow continually thicker into the interior of Siberia. The predomi- 

 nant rocks of these sediments in the zone nearest to the Oural are 

 sandstones, presenting sometimes very peculiar characteristics, and 

 particularly, a rock composed of an intimate mixture of amorphous 

 clay with an equally amorphous silica. This material covers a very 




428 ■ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



large area. It appears as a compact rock of light or gray color, some- 

 times yellowish, of which the typical varieties have the property of 

 disintegrating into minute particles with angular points and curiously 

 curved surfaces. Fossils are extremely rare in these beds. Along- 

 side of the teeth of squali. spiculse of sponges and of radiolaria, are 

 found the shells of Lingula, prints of shells of Lima nucata, and the 

 sponge Botroclonium spasski. Various considerations have induced 

 the Russian geologists to ascribe these beds to the Eocene. 



To the east of these silico-argillaceous beds are widely distributed 

 sandstones slightly coherent, accompanied by -sands and clays. In 

 these deposits are found well-preserved remains of fishes : Lamna 

 elegans, L. cuspidata, L. denticidata, Otodus macrotus, Notidanus 

 serratissimus, Galeocerdo minor, Actobatis, Myliobates etc. Besides 

 this the remains of mollusks have been found; the species most 

 widely distributed — Cyprina — resembles very much C. perovalis. 

 In addition occur Modiola, Psammobia (?), Fusus (Neptunea) 

 gracilis, F. multisulcatus and Naidica sp. The above are classed as 

 Oligocene. 



Among the most remarkable deposits of post-tertiary age of the 

 east slope of the Oural besides the glacial deposits developed north 

 of the 61st parallel are the auriferous and platiniferous sands (the 

 latter belonging exclusively to the Ourals). Intimately connected 

 with the serpentines and their primitive rocks, to the disintegration 

 of which the platiniferous groups owe their origin, they are not so 

 largely developed as the auriferous placers. 



The auriferous placers of the Oural are stratified masses, which vary 

 from a very thin layer to a thickness of 4 meters and more. Gener- 

 ally they vary between 0-5 meters and 1 m. Their longitudinal extent, 

 which is usually 20 to 40 m., often reaches 200 and even 500 m. They 

 are rarely more extensive, though placers of 4J, 6 and 12 kilom. are 

 known (placer Pechtchanka, District Bogoslovsk). Their width is 

 sometimes very small, 2 to 4 metei's; ordinarily it is 20 to 40 m., 

 and has been known 100 m. and more. Sometimes auriferous beds 

 are found on vegetable earth or immediately under the grass, but 

 usually they are covered by barren earth, i. e., an alluvial bed desti- 

 tute of gold, called "turf," because the first placers found in the 

 Ourals were covered by a real turf. The barren earth varies from 

 - 5 m. to 4 m., and occasionally reaches 20 m., and even more. The 

 placers usually rest on hard rock, or that little disintegrated, called 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



" plotik," but rarely on a barren alluvial bed under which is found 

 a second auriferous bed which reposes directly on the " plotik." 



The auriferous placers are found in the valleys of rivers and 

 brooks, or in dry ravines, and, of course, follow the axis of their 

 depressions. A gold nugget weighing 36 kilogr. (lbs. 79.2) was taken 

 from the Tzarewo-Alexandrowsky in the Miass district. Often a 

 slender thread in the placer is found to be richest in gold, and 

 probably indicates the strongest current. The gold of the explored 

 placers varies between 0*57 gram to 2-69 grams per tonne. A larger 

 yield is rare and when found is in the small placers, or in small parts 

 of large placers where it sometimes reaches 16 kilos, per tonne. It 

 is usually accompanied by Magnetite, which is obtained in the wash- 

 ings as sand called " Schlich." More rarely this sand is composed of 

 Hematite, Ilmenite and Chromite. Frequently Quartz and often 

 Platinum, Garnet, sometimes Zircon, Disthene and Diamonds are 

 obtained. The richness of the Oural placers does not seem to depend 

 on that of the neighboring rocks. The most important placers are in 

 regions of greenstones, crystalline, talcose and chloritic schists, etc. 

 Tbe regions of granite, gneiss and mica schist are less productive. The 

 placers on limestones are often found to be peculiarly rich. In this 

 case the rock is cut out in the form of natural buckets, in which the 

 gold is deposited. The Oural placers are post-tertiary, or recent 

 deposits, containing objects fashioned by man, and occasionally post- 

 pliocene deposits containing the remains of mammoths, rhinoceros, 

 etc. Almost all are on the east, very few on the west slope, of 

 the Oural divide. Among the crystalline stratified rocks here are 

 gneiss with Biotite, Muscovite, with two micas, amphibolic, uralitic, 

 etc.; micaceous, talcose, chloritic, siliceous amphibolic schists; 

 various phyllites and quartzites. Among the crystalline schists, 

 limestones and dolomites (marbles) are found sometimes with organic 

 remains. Among the massives, granites, various syenites, miaskite 

 (Nepheline syenite with Biotite), quartz porphyries, felsite, ortho- 

 porphyries, diorite, gabbro, norite, diabase, various porphyrites, 

 various peridotites, diallages and pyroxenites, serpentine and a 

 mixture of Corundum and Anorthite. Many of these have been sub- 

 jected to more or less dynamic metamorphism, to which among 

 other things the green and uralitic schists owe their existence. The 

 mutual relations of the various formations here are confused from 

 the dislocation of all the deposits (with the exception of those of 

 the tertiary, post-tertiary and upper cretaceous, which latter is rarely 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



met with) and the cutting of all the sedimentary rocks by the 

 massives. The rocks above mentioned occur sometimes in their 

 natural order, but often without any regularity whatever. The 

 beds generally do not dip with the slope but to the west. In 

 proportion to the distance from the axis of the chain the stratifica- 

 tion becomes less deranged and the metamorphism feebler, never- 

 theless on the eastern slope up to the appearance of the tertiary 

 deposits in force the different formations alternate without any order. 

 The conclusion of M. Karpinsky is that the principal abrasion of 

 the region has been due to the invasion of the tertiary sea (paleogene), 

 and a considerable part of these deposits have been formed at the 

 expense of the older rocks then rising above the present level of 

 the country. The difference in the geological structure in the two 

 sides of the Oural is reflected in their mineral wealth. Thus the 

 stratified deposits, such as limonite, cupriferous sand and coal, are 

 found principally on the west side of the chain, while the vein or 

 massive deposits are found on the east : the placers are the only 

 stratified deposits of minerals peculiar to the east side. 



After the above, which is the resume by M. Karpinsky of the 

 structure of the east slope of the Oural, 5 it is, perhaps, the best place 

 to consider the interesting question of the cause of this structure 

 which the travellers over the route of the excursion have verified as 

 accurately stated. Several points have been emphasized above to 

 call attention to the part which they bear to the hypothesis advanced 

 by one of these excursionists. 



Prof. Gotz of Munich is of the opinion that but two hypotheses are 

 tenable. The first is naturally that the lake basins have been 

 ploughed out by ice or other powerful physical agents (which he 

 concludes cannot be maintained), and the others that they are due 

 to atmospheric agencies — chemical and mechanical. 



The writer's first suggestion, which he afterwards found had been 

 advanced independently by Prof. I. C. White, was that the sub- 

 jacent limestones had been dissolved out by waters percolating the 

 soil and the depressions thus formed had been filled with water. 



The following is the hypothesis of Prof. Arthur M. Miller, of 

 the State College of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky. : 



"A" (Figure 2) represents the course of a tributary stream of the 

 Irtysch, draining the Asiatic slope of the Ourals. 



6 L. G., V. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



" Prof. Karpinsky states that every one of these streams is divisible 

 into three courses — a fresh-vvater-lake-region upper course, a gorge- 

 region middle course, and a meander-flood-plain-region lower course. 

 Oawl Trtoa 



7 



PUn ot Pr«VirMO|e +or ^ny +nbatr*ry of- the. Ir+y&ch 

 Draininq Asiatic Slope of CJmI&. 



Soer\ Level 



o 





zn-H~- 



5e<-* Level 



X a. 

 <0 



/jrom s>ke-rch by Pro)-. Miller") 

 > "for +his> p*per- / 



Fig. 3. 



It is the peculiarities of the upper and middle courses that here 

 demand explanation." 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



" The presence of lakes nearly always point to recent disturbances 

 in the drainage." 



Recognized causes of lakes are : — 



1. Glacial action. 



2. Volcanic action — crater hollows and lava dams. 



3. Chemical solution — producing inequalities. 



4. Epeirogenic movements — phenomena associated with draining 

 of newly established marine plains. 



5. Sluggish stream action in deltas and flood plains. 



6. Minor warpings of the earth's crust — causing changes of 

 gradient in streams. 



Of course we readily rule out causes 1 and 2 here. There is 

 no evidence of recent glacial or volcanic action in this region under 

 discussion. 



Cause No. 3 would find some advocates as applicable here; but 

 evidence in favor of lakes being formed in this way is meagre. 



Cause No. 4 could have hardly operated here, though it may 

 have had influence in the case of the salt lakes of the Siberian steppe 

 region farther to the eastward. 



" No. 5 must also be ruled out ; we are not dealing with lower 

 stream course phenomena." 



" We seem limited to Cause No. 6. Fig. B represents supposed 

 section of district "A" just prior to the development of the lakes and 

 the gorge. We have here in the dotted line the low stream gradient 

 of a plain lying at base level. Suppose a gentle warping of the 

 earth's crust to produce a fold (not a fault) with an axis parallel 

 with the main chain of the Ourals. This is represented on an exag- 

 gerated scale in Fig. " C." Such a fold thrown across the paths of 

 these eastward flowing streams would increase the gradient of that 

 portion of their courses on the eastward half or limb of this low 

 anticline. The erosive power of the streams would be intensified in 

 this portion of their course. They would tend to cut gorges. In 

 the upper course of the streams, that portion between the developing 

 anticline and the Oural-Taou, the gradient would be lowered, perhaps 

 e ven reversed, for the movement upward on the western limb of the 

 anticline would act in opposition to the current, and form a barrier, 

 which would tend to dam up the waters behind it. In addition to 

 this there would probably be a downward synclinal movement in the 

 region between the anticline and the Oural-Taou. The floor of the 

 syncline would not only be relatively but absolutely lower than it 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



was before. The combined effect of these two movements would be 

 to drown the upper course of these streams and favor the forma- 

 tion of lakes." 



The hypothesis first referred to, for which I find that I am re- 

 sponsible, is built upon the admitted structure of the river beds in 

 their divisions described above, and is in effect that at some time 

 posterior to the deposition of the rocks of the middle course, a 

 profound dislocation occurred along the Ourals involving an up- 

 throw of the entire eastern half along a line of fault parallel to and 

 not far from the axis of the chain, which brought the underlying 

 Archean rocks to the level of the Devonic of the western slope. The 

 entire series of rocks forming the eastern slope as far as the present 

 westernmost occurrence of the rocky gorges of the middle slopes were 

 affected by this movement. The high angle and great precipitation 

 cut channels for the rapid streams directly eastward, and ploughed 

 out the canons in the Tertiary rocks of the Siberian plains. A 

 period of erosion ensued during which the elevated eastern half of 

 the Oural was greatly reduced in height. Following this was a 

 down-throw of less extent than the original elevation but of sufficient 

 extent to reduce the rapidity of flow of the rivers near their sources 

 and on their upper courses, and to transform these latter more or 

 less into morasses and swamps. In time the sunken river beds of 

 the upper courses werefilled by sediments, while the rocky gorges of 

 the middle courses remained as before the channels of streams no 

 longer possessing sufficient rapidity to have cut them. It seems 

 reasonable to suppose that if there had been such movements, they 

 might have produced all the dissimilarity now observable between 

 the two slopes of the Oural, even if the structure of the two sides had 

 been originally similar. The rivers of the east slope prior to the 

 first movement probably originated in the longitudinal valleys 

 of the harder crystalline and quartzite rocks of the east side. 

 Their first courses very likely were rapid and tumultuous and 

 more or less parallel to the axis of the chain, as is now the case 

 with those of the west side, for considerable distances or until 

 favorable places were found for them to break through in lines 

 perpendicular to the axis of the range, when like those of the 

 western slope they may have excavated their beds, first through 

 the older paleozoic rocks and further east through the Tertiary, 

 and finally have reached the level steppes far to the east. The 

 first effect of the elevation would be naturally to produce direct east 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



trending channels and to cut them so deeply that they would still 

 remain the water courses after the subsequent depression. The 

 final sinking of the eastern half of the chain, would convert the 

 river channels already cut out of the crystalline rocks into deep 

 lakes lying as it is shown these do, more or less in the same direc- 

 tion and within a belt of moderate width. The currents of the 

 upper courses must have become sluggish and the sources of supply 

 have changed to morasses and swamps. The gentle slope directly to 

 the east would be the natural direction of these streams, instead of 

 as originally before the first elevation of the longitudinal valleys, to 

 the N. and S. Wherever depressions of the level occurred, would 

 be found a lake of greater or less extent and these lakes would 

 increase in number and simplicity of form as the angle of descent 

 became less and the rocks softer. The promontories and deep slopes 

 of the old river-bed lakes which represented the parts of more than 

 usually hard rock where the mountain streams had been deflected, 

 and the deep canons where the maximum erosion had been ac- 

 complished, would be less and less frequently seen, the further one 

 followed the river courses to the east. The production of lakes with 

 and without efflux in the level region would follow as a matter of 

 course as is seen in the courses of the Mississippi, the Volga and 

 other large streams. 



The existence of the third or intermediate type of lake of which 

 M. Karpinsky speaks, lying between those close to the Oural axis 

 and those on the steppes would be very natural in a part of the 

 country where both orographic and petrographic characters were 

 changing from those of the rocks containing the lakes of type I, 

 to those containing the lakes of type II. Finally many of the 

 shallower lakes would be transformed into marshes and swamps. 



On the other hand the existence of large masses of metamor- 

 phosed rocks; of the evidences of distortion and crushing; of rents 

 filled by eruptives and their disintegration products ; the occur- 

 rence of valuable mineral deposits in that part of the mountain 

 system nearest to the axis; would be naturally explained by the 

 dynamic and thermal effects resulting from the regional downthrow. 

 It appears much at least as plausible that such causes acted as that 

 the former eastern counterparts of the rocks constituting the west 

 slope of the Oural have been eroded and redeposited as the rocks of 

 the retreating Tertiary sea. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



On July 31 (August 12), 1897, we left Slatooust for Orjura, where 

 a halt was made, and a few hundred yards beyond which the conti- 

 nental divide forming the Eur-Asian frontier was reached and 

 passed, and the moderate descent on the Siberian side to Miass 

 at the foot of the Ilmen mountains begun. On the road thither, 

 and at the station Syrostan, a cutting exposes phyllites, a porous 

 talcose rock (listvenite) and serpentine. Further on schistose 

 rocks including metamorphosed porphyrites occur. The other sec- 

 ondary elements are Chlorite, Quartz, Calcite and Epidote. After 

 these, alluvium covers the surface to the station of Miass. Almost 

 the entire region between Syrostan and the Ilmen mountains is 

 auriferous, the central part of the auriferous belt containing the site 

 of the town of Miass. The gneiss on which the town of Miass is 

 built traversed within town limits by peridotite, in its western 

 part is replaced by siliceous schist (kieselschiefer) and phyllite. 

 The Miass placer situated only two kilometers from the station 

 is typical of the eastern Oural deposits of this character. The bed 

 above the auriferous gravel is about 2 to 4 m. thick, and consists of 

 turf, sand and clay. The auriferous bed itself consists of argilla- 

 ceous sand with many pebbles, and of gravel containing fragments 

 of gneiss, quartz and siliceous schist, of 0-7 m. in thickness. The 

 gold varies from 0-6 to 0-8 gram per tonne. This bed lies on gravel, 

 sand and clay, 2 m. thick. Borings show talcose and argillaceous 

 schists and serpentine below it. A little gold is found above these 

 rocks, but not in paying quantity. The placer which lies in the 

 ground immediately adjacent to the Miass river is about 1,380 m. 

 long by 320 broad. The terrace is the ancient bed of the river. 

 The gold is sought in the lowest points of the ancient and present 

 valleys. The peat or turf which lies upon this gravel is that which 

 extends over so large a part of the Siberian steppes and in which at 

 other places the remains of the mammoth and rhinoceros have been 

 found. The river is about 500 meters east of the present workings. 

 This placer was stated to be but 60 m. above sea level, and the mouth 

 of the Miass but 40 m. (?). 



The gravel is screened in a primitive circular rotating screen, of 

 which the axis is inclined, and is then passed over a table having 

 two amalgamated plates at the top and two at the bottom. The 

 shoot is about 5 feet wide and 35 feet long, with a fall of about 20°. 

 The coarse slimes are carried to the top of a scaffolding, while the 

 fine slimes are left. 




436 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



The Umen mountains which lie close to the town of Miass are 

 celebrated as the depository of many, both intrinsically and scien- 

 tifically valuable minerals, some of which are peculiar to the 

 range. Thus, Miaskite (nephelinic or eloeolitic syenite with Biotite), 

 named by Gustav Rose, is not peculiar to these mountains only, 

 which bear the name of Ilmen, but also to their prolongations and 

 the mountains Baiksky, Sobatchia, Potanina and Wichniowaia. In 

 this continuation another characteristic rock is found composed of 

 Anorthite and Corundum. In the gneiss of the Ilmens and their 

 northerly prolongations veins of a rock composed essentially of 

 corundum and orthose are found. M. Karpinsky considers this an 

 analogue of the syenites, the corundum taking the place of the 

 biotite. 



The Ilmens are thus more uniform and characteristic throughout 

 the 150 kilom. of their length than the main chain of the (Jural 

 itself. " Miascite" (or Miasskite, or better Miassite or Biotite- 

 nepheline Syenite) is found in many places in the Ilmens, of which 

 the chief is near Lake Ilmen. There and in most of the other 

 localities are developed the granular and gneissic varieties of 

 Miassite, cut by veins of very coarse-grained Miassite. A foot note 

 in L. G. V., 22, gives the following as yet unpublished analysis of 

 Miassite by M. Bourdakow : 



Si0 2 



TiO, 



A1 2 3 



Fe,0 3 



FeO 



MnO 



CaO 



MgO 



Na 2 



K 2 6 



C0 2 



H,6 



I. Granular Miassite near 

 Lake Ilmen. 



III. Schistose Miassite from 

 Mt. Sobatchia. 



II. Schistose Miassite from 

 Mt. Wichniowaia. 



There are over 150 mineral localities exploited in the Ilmen 

 mountains in the neighborhood of Lake Ilmen. The minerals (of 

 which a list of 83 is given in L. G. V. by Karpinsky, and 35 are 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



specifically described by Arzruni in L. G. IV) lie either in raiassite, 

 syenite or gneiss. The veins most extensive and remarkable for 

 the minerals they contain are in a peculiar green granite traversing 

 the gneiss. The granite typical of the veins consists of amazon 

 stone (microcline), albite, gray colorless or almost black quartz and 

 biotite. The miassite is often very coarsely granular, the individual 

 crystals attaining frequently 10 centimeters and more, and a speci- 

 men of biotite weighing 62-67 kilog. having been found. Some fine 

 graphic granite is formed of quartz and amazonite. 



The rock contains cavities filled with argillaceous matter called 

 " salo " (grease) in which are found attached to the walls finely 

 developed crystals of Topaz and among other minerals, Beryl (Aqua 

 marine), Phenacite, Tourmaline, Columbite, Samarskite, Monacite, 

 Monazitoid, Helvine, Garnet, Malaconite, Cryolite, Chiolite, etc. 



The veins of micaceous syenite, consisting of Orthose, Plagioclase, 

 Biotite and sometimes Muscovite, which cut the gueiss, contain very 

 various minerals: Zircon, Pyrochlore, iEschynite, Monacite, and 

 sometimes Apatite, Sphene, Magnetite and Ilmenite. 



On August 1 (13) the portions of the Ilmen mountains near the 

 station were examined by the excursionists. The distance to the 

 first opening was about 4 wersts, exhibiting miassite containing 

 Zircon, Elseolite and Nepheline. 



Besides typical miassite we obtained Elseolite with white masses of 

 Nepheline, Biotite and Ilmenite. The Ilmens themselves are the 

 most gently sloping of hills and of very moderate height. Further 

 on were found openings where Sodalite and Amazon-stone were pro- 

 cured. Among the more important minerals, of which more detailed 

 description will be found in L. C. IV by Arzruni, are iEschynite, 

 Amphibole, Apatite, Beryl,Cancrinite, Chiolite, Columbite, Desmine, 

 Elseolite, Epidote, the Feldspar group, Microcline, Fluorite, Garnet, 

 Graphite, Helvine, Ilmenite, Corundum, Cryolite, Magnetite, Mar- 

 tite, Mobybdenite, Monacite, Orthite, Phenacite, Pyrochlore, Quartz, 

 Rutile, Samarskite, Scapolite, Sodalite, Titanite, Topaz (which was 

 the first mineral found here in the XVIII Century by the Cossack 

 Protow), Tschewkenite, Tourmaline, Uralite and Zircon. 



After an examination of these localities the route was continued 

 toward Tcheliabinsk. At the station Bichkil a party of ten excur. 

 sionists set out in droschkes sixty wersts to visit the gold deposits of 

 Katch-Kar (or Kotch-Kar). This region is situated 80 kilometers 

 southwest of'Miass. The 360 to 400 mining localities that the dis- 



29 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



trict contains are found in the upper course of the rivers Kotchkara, 

 Tschornaia, Osseika, Kamenka and Sanarka. The exploitation of 

 gold began in 1844, when the placers in the southern part of the 

 region Kamenka and Sanarka were discovered. Later these placers 

 became famous on account of the precious minerals, Cyanite, Beryl, 

 Rose Topaz, Amethyst, Euclase, Ruby, Corundum etc., which occur 

 with the gold. The first gold in primitive rock in place was dis- 

 covered in 1863. 6 



The auriferous region lies in the middle of a large granite zone 

 running north and south. The gneisso-granites strike approximately 

 east and west, but have been broken through in a direction per- 

 pendicular to this, as is shown in numerous more or less parallel 

 cracks and faults. The faults have in their turn caused the enclo- 

 sure as veins of masses of granite transformed by dynamo-meta- 

 morphic action to a dark greenish gray rock generally schistose, 

 and composed of very finely crushed masses of Orthose, Plagioclase, 

 Quartz and Mica, with secondary elements, Biotite, Amphibole (in 

 certain veins), Chlorite, Talc, Calcite, Pyrite, etc. The country rocks 

 are a granite called berezite with Feldspar partially or entirely 

 transformed to Quartz and Muscovite. The thickness of the ex- 

 ploited veins varies between O05 m. and 2 m. The veins consist of 

 gray or green opaque Quartz, in which are inclusions of little veins 

 of Chalcedony in very variable quantities (here and there of Calcite 

 and Chlorite), but filling the whole crack. The Chalcedony is repre- 

 sented principally by Mispickel, Pyrite mixed with Chalcopyrite, 

 Stibine and Galena. 



Over the greater part of the mining area the primitive rock is 

 disintegrated on the surface to a depth of 20 to 50 meters. The granite 

 is transformed to a pinkish-white clay, unctuous to the touch. The 

 Quartz becomes spongy, and contains the products of the oxidation of 

 the Chalcedonies, Ochers, sometimes oxides of manganese and 

 copper, here and there Pharmacosiderite and Arseniosiderite, also 

 haloid silver minerals with the appearance of Embolite Ag (CI Br). 

 The gold content is 5 to 13 grams per tonne. The veins are richer 

 at the top, although the gold is more equally distributed in the 

 lower parts. The gold augments proportionally to the amount 

 of mispickel, and contains about 30 p. c. Ag. The different locali- 

 ties of ore resemble each other closely. Up to the present time that 



6 The information as to this region is taken from Wyssotsky's description in 

 L. G. VI. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



part of the belt of sufficiently disintegrated rock which allows the 

 extraction of ore by the simplest processes (crushing and amalga- 

 mation) has alone been exploited. To separate the chalcedonies the 

 " stossberd " and Frue vanner are used. The most important opera- 

 tions are those of the Mitrofanovsky shaft (40 m.), Woskressensky 

 (80 m.), the shafts Gavriilo-Arkhanguelsky (70 m.), Loukochinsky 

 (73 ^ in.), Woskressensky (56 m.), Pavlovsky (50 m.), Alexan- 

 drovsky (63 m.), etc. 



In latter years the yield of gold from the primitive rocks, where 

 it occurs as an ore, has been 1300 to 1425 kilogr. per year for the 

 district of Kotchkar, while the placers have given but 300-350 

 kgr. The total production of gold from 1844 to 1897 in this region 

 is about 47,067 kgr. (103,547.4 lbs.=51.77 tons) of which 25,160 

 kgr. came from the placers, and 21,900 from the veins (since 1868). 

 To this some 450 kgr. of silver must be added. 



Amphibolic and biotitic gneisses crop out over the entire space 

 which stretches to the Lake Tschebarkoul, and beyond veins of the 

 amazonite granite disappear imperceptibly, but the ordinary our- 

 alian granite with Biotite grows more frequent and extensive 

 until it becomes predominant. The gneiss squeezed between masses 

 of granite contains frequent injections of it and innumerable dykes 

 and veins. Beyond Tschebarkoul the outcrops become more rare. 

 At 4J kilom. from the station siliceous schists appear, interrupted by 

 a serpentine; further on, chloritic, talcose and argillitic schists suc- 

 ceed. These schists are replaced by green-stones, augitic and 

 ouralitic porphyrites and aphanites, transformed here and there by 

 dynamo-metamorphic action into uralitic schists. Here and there 

 along the line of the railway gold is exploited in placers and veins. 



On August 2 (14) the party moved along the line of the trans- 

 Siberian railway to Tcheliabinsk, the easternmost point which was 

 reached during our sojourn in Russia, viz., over 30° east longitude 

 from St. Petersburg, or about 61° E. of Greenwich. This very im- 

 portant railway center is a new town built on a number of gold veins 

 which have been exploited in latter years. The mines are mostly 

 from 16 to 20 kilom. southwest of the town, and have a general 

 similarity to those of Kotchkar. One of the best organized mines 

 is St. Michael Arkhanguel, belonging to M. Wonliarliarsky & Co. 



Along the line of the railway towards Kytchtym the granite 

 is followed for 8 kilom., and near the crossing of the Miass is cut by 

 ramified veins of quartziferous diorite. The granite underlies red 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



and yellow post-tertiary clays covered by tschernozem. From the 

 7th to the 52d werst from Tcheliabinsk the clays cover the oldest 

 rocks almost everywhere. It is only in rare instances that one 

 observes the islets of tertiary conglomerates and sandstones, which 

 have escaped erosion, appearing above the surface (12 to 43 wersts) 

 and siliceous clay with Glauconite (44 wersts), a Kaolin produced 

 by the alteration of a subjacent granite, a diorite (?) (32 wersts), a 

 dioritic porphyrite (Lake Kissiagutch) and a Labradorite porphyry 

 (46 wersts). From the 50th werst such outcrops become more 

 frequent. First come aphanitic and other massive altered and 

 clastic rocks. At the 64th werst an uralitic porphyrite occurs, 

 becoming an uralitic schist ; then serpentine and chloritic schist, and 

 finally gneiss and granite alternating with chloritic and uralitic 

 schists, which predominate further on, and upon which are built the 

 Kytchtym works. The gneisses are often biotitic, often amphibolic, 

 and often garnetiferous. The strike of all the crystalline rocks is 

 nearly that of the meridian. (L. G., V, p. 33.) 



August 3 (15) the party of excursionists left the station of Kytch- 

 tym in droschkes and drove around lakes Kytchtym and Sougomak 

 to the base of the Sougomak mountain. Between Kytchtym and 

 Sougomak mountain only biotitic and amphhibolic gneiss were ob- 

 served, cut by peridotit'es more or less serpentinized on the north 

 of the lake. At the same place appear in irregular prominences 

 masses of granitic and syenitic character. The mountain is partly 

 schistose, and contains limestone with a grotto among the gneiss, 

 but in the main it is composed of massive, extremely tough serpen- 

 tine with antigorite. From the summit of the mountain a magnificent 

 view is obtained of the Siberian plain and of the mountainous part 

 of the Ourals. 



The ascent was along the border of Kytchtym lake and through 

 the town of that name around lake Sougomak and up to the 

 arrete over a grassy slope of easy grade. Hence, the ascent was 

 completed by a circuitous path over a species of col to the 

 shoulder beyond, where a path led up to the summit. On the top 

 was a fine compact rock determined to be serpentine. The view 

 from here of the Siberian lakes and steppes was very extensive. To 

 the west the Ilmen mountains were in sight and also Mt. Yourma, 

 which Humboldt erroneously supposed to be the nucleus of three 

 independent mountain chains. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



From Kychtym to Ekatherinebourg the road passes over bands of 

 gneiss cut several times by granite (traversed by veins of syenite). 

 There is a region of chloritic talcose, etc., schists among which is 

 found for instance at the 91stwerst uralitic porphyry transformed to 

 schist. At the 99th werst these schists change the west dip to south 

 for half a werst. Beyond the station Maouk, where the schists 

 have been studied by Morozewiez, serpentines occur and predominate 

 to the 115th werst. 



The chloritic schist contains large crystals of Magnetite, the 

 talcose schist nests of radiating Actinolite of emerald green, and the 

 serpentines a number of veins of Asbestus. The whole is covered 

 by a bed of turf three meters thick. The serpentine contains 

 marble at the 126th werst. Among numerous hills of serpentine one 

 may observe numerous nuclei of gabbro and gabbro-diorite, and other 

 rocks giving origin to serpentine. The summit of the divide between 

 the waters of the Tschoussowaia and those of the system of the river 

 Isset consists of chloritic schist. Marble accompanied sometimes 

 by listvenite has been exploited for years in the vicinity of the village 

 Mramorskoe. Succeeding this for six wersts or more come gneiss 

 and granite, followed by more chloritic and talcose schists, etc., 

 accompanied by serpentines, diallage, pyroxenite, uralitic por- 

 phyrite and occasionally by granite and porphyry. 



Ekatherinebourg. — Chloritic schists occur within the limits of the 

 city, as well as listvenite, serpentine, diorite or gabbro-diorite, ural- 

 itic porphyry, usually changed into green so-called uralitic schist. 

 Here and there these schists contain beds of gneiss. 



Besides these (See L. G., VII) in the neighborhood occur lime- 

 stones and granite. 7 



While a part of the excursionists were examining the so-called 

 stone tents and the archeological remains of Werkk-Issetsky, others 

 visited the mineral localities of Eugenie-Maximilianovna to the 



7 Ekatherinebourg is the seat of a very active and learned society of amateurs 

 of natural history, which has made valuable natural history and archeological 

 collections. A fire destroyed many of the most valuable objects of the former 

 collection, but this has not prevented the growth of the society. Valuable 

 remains of a former tribe have been found on the island in lake Werkh-Issetsk 

 and in the vicinity of the hamlet of Palkino. M. George-Onesime Clerc is 

 the very efficient secretary of this society, a savant amateur, who has for 

 twenty-five years been the chief active spirit within it. He has recently 

 made the discoveries of human relics previously referred to, and desires to 

 be able to compare some of the objects with those of the North American 

 Indian. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



northwest of that village, to the right of the river Isseta, and almost 

 on the summit of the Oural divide. Besides minerals about which 

 the data are not yet complete, such as Disthene, Beryl of lilac color, 

 red Corundum, etc., there are met with here Aqua marine, Vesuvian- 

 ite, Garnet, Essonite and Almandine, Epidote in great abundance, 

 Pouschkinite, Axinite,Yttrotantalite, Titanite, Chinochlore, Amazon 

 stone (Microcline) in great crystals, Amphibole, Rock Crystal Pyrite 

 transformed to Limonite, etc. These occurrences are in a development 

 of gneisso-grauites. The predominant rock is a feldspathic rock, poor 

 in mica and almost destitute of Amphibole. This feldspathic rock is 

 accompanied by a rock very rich in Amphibole, sometimes closely 

 associated with amphibolite (Mt. Medwejka, Romanorka), some- 

 times with amphibolic gneiss (Medwejka, Poup), sometimes with a 

 diorite (Sewernaia, Yelowaia), which occupy lower horizons than the 

 feldspathic rock, although they constitute independent and not very 

 great elevations. 



The above minerals are the product of metamorphism. They are 

 found usually at a slight depth in contact with feldspathic and 

 amphibolic rocks, and are almost always accompanied by Epidote. 

 In the mountain Poup the minerals accompany the crystals of dolo- 

 mite, and are found in places where the dolomite comes in contact 

 with amphibolic gneiss, the surface of the hill being formed of 

 granite. The deposits of the greatest interest are : 



Mount Medwejka — Yellow Essonite, rose colored and brown Pis- 

 tacite. 



Mount Yelowaia (Great mine Yevguenie-Maximilianovskaja) — 

 Axinite, Pouschkinite and Titanite. 



Mount Poup (Mine Iwano-Redivotsevskaja) — Essonite, Epidote, 

 Clinochlore. 



Mount Sewernaia- Yereineievskaia) — Aqua Marine, Vesuvianite, 

 Sphene, Garnet, Epidote, Yttrotantalite, Amazon stone etc. [See 

 L. G., VIII.] 



The imperial lapidary establishment in Ekatherinebourg, and the 

 depot where minerals, cut and uncut, are exposed for sale, both 

 under the authority of the government and under private auspices, 

 is of great interest, but the cutting was not being carried on at the 

 time the excursion reached the city. The cups and vases of rock 

 crystal, malachite, jasper, etc., were of great beauty, and showed the 

 skill which has been attained by the Russian lapidaries. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



The minerals offered for sale comprise all those which are known 

 in the entire Oural region as well as those from this particular district, 

 and have no further claim to enumeration here, since they will be 

 mentioned in connection with the visit to the localities where they 

 occur. This and the other great lapidary institution of Russia at 

 Peterhof employ some of the most skilful artisans in the world. 



Leaving Ekatherinebourg on August 6 (18), the railroad passes 

 successively over the narrow belt of diabases, etc, bordering the city 

 on the west, and runs northwest nearly parallel to the upper shore of 

 the lake Werkh-Issetsk through narrow tongues of diallage and 

 limestones, and of crystalline schists called M, into the broad belt of 

 granites and syenites containing lakes Isset, Tawatoui, and others. 

 Skirting the southwest and west shores of these at some distance at 

 about the middle of the last named the road swerves to a direction 

 east of north, and follows a thin band of the crystalline schists, M, 

 to its extremity, then passing along the contact of limestones and 

 diabases, and subsequently through first one and then the other 

 of these rocks across a very complicated area. A long course is 

 made through gabbros, etc.; to the station Anatolskaja, near which 

 is the boundary of the mining district of Nijni-Taguil. Between 

 Anatolskaja and the mining center Nijni-Taguil the road lies in 

 granites and syenites, and finally in diabases, porphyrites and tuffs 

 to Taguil and Nijni-Taguil, which are situated at the contact of 

 these rocks with the lower Devonic limestones and marbles. 



Nijni-Taguil the most considerable mining locality of the Ourals, 

 is the property of the heirs of P. Demidow, Prince of San Donato. 

 The founder of the works was Nikita Demidow, who enjoyed great 

 favor with Peter the Great, and established a number of iron works 

 in the Ourals. The river Taguil is dammed at this mining center, and 

 makes a long, narrow lake 12 wersts long, at the northern extremities 

 of which are the hills (or mountains) named Lyssaia-gora (Bald 

 mountain) and Wyssokaia (High mountain). This latter, situated 

 at the west of the village, contains the rich deposits of magnetite 

 which furnish the works of Nijni-Taguil, Niewiansky, Alapaievsky, 

 Werkh-Issetsky, Soukhsounaky and Revdinsky. At Wyssokaia 

 the predominating rocks are porphyries without quartz, and very 

 varied in respect of their constituent elements. The passage from 

 typical porphyritic texture with well developed crystals of Orthoclase 

 and sometimes of Plagioclase and Augite into augitic syenites or 




444 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



holocrystalline uralite on the one hand, or into compact orthose 

 on the other is here observed. The intimate correlation of the 

 combined elements of different structure and color appears in the 

 ribbon or spotted structure of the rock, offering a good example 

 of the composition of the " Schlieren." 8 The interpretation of the 

 structure by M. Tschernischew is that the metalliferous masses and 

 the accompanying rocks were formed simultaneously, and that the 

 beds of magnetite have separated themselves from the magma of 

 orthose rocks. The magnetite and accompanying rocks of Wysso- 

 kaja dip generally southeast and east, but the structure is compli- 

 cated by throws and faults to be seen on the west end of the 

 mountain. 



Brecciform rocks form the base of the series of metalliferous beds 

 ofWyssokaja. Here can also be seen the disintegrating acfion of 

 the orthose rocks, which results in the formation of thick beds of 

 white and pink clays, enveloping blocks of magnetite. The iron of 

 Wyssokaja is distinguished for its purity and excellent metallurgical 

 qualities. The magnetite is very often observed passing into martite, 

 a mineral very abundant near Taguil. 



Among the minerals of Wyssokaja are Asbolan and Rabdionite, 

 forming in places very thin deposits on the walls of fissures in the 

 Magnetite and Martite. Immediately to the south of these mines 

 occur the outcrops of a white siliceous limestone, which forms the 

 western boundary of the rocks which contain the Mednoroudiansk 

 deposits. 



The Mednoroudiansk copjier mines are situated to the south of 

 Wyssokaja-Gora, between two narrow bands of limestones enclosing 

 clays, and disintegrated porphyries and tuffs. Along the line of the 

 deposit is found a band of argillaceous limonites and clays. 



The southern part of the mine is separated from the northern by a 

 thick vein of lamprophyre oblique to the general direction of the 

 deposit. These iron minerals appear to fill a crack produced by a 

 fault irregularly bounded on the east and west. The clays of yellow 

 ocher are rich in copper oxides, and great masses of Malachite taken 



8 These passages of massive to schistoid and gneissic structure, the insensi- 

 ble transition of gabbros and gabbro-diorites by a series of intermediate phases 

 to diallage and amphibole-diallage rocks composed of only bisilicates, appear- 

 ing not only on the same outcrops, but even in the same fragment of rock, 

 carry conviction to the mind that these complicated combinations of fels- 

 pathic with non-felspathic masses which Reyer proposed to call " Schlieren," 

 exist. L. C, IX, 3. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



out here have given great celebrity to the mines of Mednorou- 

 diansk. The celebrated block of Malachite weighing 20,000 pouds 

 (lbs. 720,000, or 360 short tons) was found at a depth of 35 or 40 

 sagenes (245 to 280 ft.) from the surface. In the neighborhood of 

 the limestones the metalliferous rocks become richer in copper salts 

 as the limestones are constantly being dissolved by infiltrating 

 waters. Fossils from these limestones are observed in great number 

 {Pentamerus vogulieus, Atrypa reticularis, Murchisonia Demidoffi, 

 Pleurotomaria ventricosa, Euomphalus subalatus). M. Tscherni- 

 schew concludes that a chemical action takes place at the contact 

 of the limestones and the ore bearing rocks. On the one hand 

 the limestones are dissolved, and from the argillaceous envelope re- 

 sults the insoluble residue. On the other hand the deposits of copper 

 are brought about by the precipitation of this metal, which is carried 

 to the limestone by waters holding it in solution. 



The manganese mines of Tag nil. — About a werst to the northeast 

 of Lebiajaia is found the manganese mine which is exploited by two 

 trenches. The south wall of the south cut exhibiting bright gray and 

 white limestones dipping southwest 60°, and containing Atrypa 

 Jcuchvensis, Spirifer Jcuchvensis, Sp. pseudo-kuchv., Entomis pela- 

 gica, stems of crinoids and corals. Beneath this is a white dolomite, 

 resting on a marble-like limestone, which is in immediate contact 

 with yellow, pink and violet schists, cropping out in the north wall 

 of the mine. North of the schists appear the same limestones seen 

 in the hanging wall, honey-combed with stems of crinoids and corals. 

 Presumably this represents a tightly folded and inclined synclinal 

 of limestone enclosing the schists. The manganese ore is collected 

 in nests and pockets, and seems to indicate a l'elation between its 

 occurrence and the lower Devonic limestone. 



Ascent of Mount Siniaia. — Leaving Taguil and proceeding north 

 through Laia and to Barantcha the road runs on porphyrites and 

 tuffs. From the crossing of the Taguil to the latter place the road 

 crosses gabbros and diallage rocks. The best exposures of the rocks 

 composiug Siniaia are seen in the quarries, which show a diallage 

 alternating with gabbros. Here may be seen excellent instances 

 of Schlieren. The structure is not to be explained by gabbros 

 cutting the diallage rock, for, on breaking it in various directions, 

 even under the microscope, it is impossible to define the limits of the 

 two rocks. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The summit of the Siuiaia mountain known as " Koudriawy- 

 Kamen " is almost entirely formed of coarse grained diallage rock 

 containing a considerable quantity of olivine. From the summit of 

 Siniaia or Koudriawy-Kameu (crumpled stone) a splendid view is 

 obtained of the summits of the ranges. To the north appears Mt. 

 Katchkanar, and Mt. Blagodat, to the southeast is the village of 

 Laia and the works of Taguil, to the west is the Oural chain, here 

 running nearly north and south. 



Kouchwa and Mount Blagodat. — After a short run of nine wersts 

 north and northeast through gabbros, gneiss, and diabase, we reach 

 the station Kouchwa, on the last named formation, where the crown 

 owns works. The station is at the junction of the great and little 

 Kouchwa. The western part of the village extends over the large 

 low plain of these streams. Two wersts from the town is situated 

 Mount Blagodat. The constituent rock of this mountain, like that 

 of Wyssokaia, is an orthophyre without quartz, but with crystals of 

 Orthose and sometimes Plagioclase or Augite. All transitions from 

 coarse grained uralitic and augitic syenites to perfectly compact 

 orthose rocks resembling in external aspect the Swedish " Hallaflinta " 

 as observed by G. Rose. The rocks also approach the structure of 

 " Schlieren." The microstructure, the predominance of Feldspar in 

 the matrix and among the porphyritic elements, and finally the nota- 

 ble content of sodium bring the greater part of the rocks of Blagodat 

 near to the group of quartzless augitic porphyries called, after M. 

 Gumbel, ceratophyres. In Blagodat as in Wyssokaia the orotho- 

 phyres on the side of diminished mineral masses are enriched by 

 secondary Epidote, by Garnet, Analcime, Calcite, Chlorite and Mica, 

 and pass into epidote-garnetiferous and calcito-garnetiferous rocks- 

 The appearance of these rocks is connected with the disappearance 

 of the masses of Magnetite, as has been proven by the mining opera- 

 tions conducted at Blagodat. The magnetic ores of Blagodat appear 

 as red and as blue. The blue minerals abound in pellets of green 

 chlorite disseminated through the mass. Near the surface the Chlorite 

 is destroyed and the mineral becomes porous and easily fusible. Of 

 course as depth is increased the red mineral is more and more re- 

 placed by the blue. The deposits occur without definite boundaries, 

 over the entire east side of Blagodat to the summit wherever there 

 is orthophyre, but sometimes in the shape of tolerably regular veins, 

 and sometimes in nests and nodules. The veins gradually increase in 

 feldspar and pass insensibly into pure Orthose without Magnetite. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



On the east side the rocks are separated into strata and dip to the 

 east and southeast. Near the summit the rock is in the form of an 

 anticlinal and the direction of its axis about corresponds with the 

 trend of the mountain. 



The deposit is faulted in lines nearly perpendicular and approxi- 

 mating north-northwest and east. As a result of the first faulting, part 

 of the wall of the deposit is thrown to the west flank of the mountain, 

 and owing to the second, the main deposit is cut off to the south on 

 the eastern slope. The folds and faults corresponding with the first 

 of these are anterior to those corresponding to the second or trans- 

 verse, which accounts for the folding back of the rocks of Epidote 

 and Garnets and their appearance on the west flank to the foot of the 

 eastern slope in many places as a result of the first movement. (See 

 L. G., IX, PI. P.). 



The mineral deposits have experienced the same fractures as the 

 rocks containing them, as is evident from the strips of Magnetite 

 included in the breccias which fill the cracks, and the slickensides 

 of magnetite. The narrow bands of limestone compressed within 

 the porphyritic rocks to the east and south of Blagodat contain a 

 fairly rich fauna often well preserved. The limestones of the lower 

 Devon ic (hercynian) along the rivers Kazanka and Izwestka for a 

 distance of 4 wersts southeast of Blagodat abound in fossils, among 

 which M. Tschernischew has described Calymene, Entomis pelagiea, 

 Pleurotomaria kuschwensis, Merista passer, Spirifer pentamerij'ormis, 

 Sp. kuschw., Sp. pseudo-kuschw., Atrypa kuschw., Pentamerusparvulus, 

 Pent, integer, Orthis pseudo-tenuissima. 



The occurrences of these ores of Wyssokaia and Blagodat, and the 

 relation they seem to bear to the orthophyres on the one hand and 

 to the eruptive diabases and porphyrites on the other, will 

 naturally suggest to the mind of the student of Pennsylvania geology 

 the Cornwall and Dillsburg deposits. The quotation by M. 

 Tschernischew of G. Rose's comparison of one of the transition 

 forms of these rocks to the Swedish Hallaflinta only increases the 

 the analogy to the series in Pennsylvania and other parts of the 

 United States, as well as in Wales, to which the late Dr. T. Sterry 

 Hunt so often referred. There are many other analogies, as in 

 the presence of copper and manganese in the Wyssokaja, and 

 the irregular pocket and mass occurrence of the ore in Blagodat. 

 The resemblances in the two countries in these respects is very 

 striking, and is not marred by the Devonic limestones at various 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



points south and east of Blagodat. It would seem that the complete 

 history of these very interesting mineral deposits remains to be 

 told, and that there is some reason to believe that it will be found 

 to be similar in Pennsylvania, Caernarvonshire, and the district of 

 Goro-Blagodat. 



Recrossing the Eur-Asian frontier. — Leaving Kouchwa the rail- 

 way continues for a short time in a northerly direction, when it 

 turns northwest before reaching the river Toura. Up to this point 

 it is laid almost exclusively on porphyries accompanied by tuffs and 

 breccias. 



The porphyrite breccias consist of a paste of plagioclase and 

 augite, showing plain fluid structure in which occur Labradorite and 

 Augite (partly Uralite). Fragments of different sizes of dark gray 

 ribbon schist, of porphyrite and of quartz, are held in the paste. 

 Occasionally a large fragment of schist a meter in length enclosed in 

 the porphyrite indicates the vicinity of a continuous mass of schists. 

 Up to the present only one outcrop is known, viz. : to the left of the 

 Toura, between the great and little Garevka. About two wersts 

 from the Eur-Asian crossing a region of much metamorphosed 

 gabbros is entered. These gabbros are remarked also west of the 

 station. Then (197 wersts from Ekatkerinebourg) commences a 

 region of indubitably metamorphic Chlorite and micaceous schists 

 which constitute the central part of the crest of the Ourals. Beyond 

 the boundary station the railway crosses the Toura for the last time 

 and approaches the head waters of the rivers descending the 

 European slope and mingling their waters with the Kama. [L. G., 

 IX.]. 



The boundary station between Asia and Europe on the further 

 journey is 426.1 m. (1,397.6 ft.) above sea level, and near the head 

 waters of the Liewaia Toura, and of the Tiskoss, which latter is an 

 affluent of the Koiwa, and at a distance of 255 wersts from Perm. 

 Following the Koiwa at the ridge near the 237th werst from Perm 

 it attains an absolute height of 285.7 m. (937 ft.). 



Following the right bank and turning obliquely to the northwest 

 it ascends a sharp incline of a ridge parallel to that of the main 

 chain, and reaches the maximum elevation of 469.7 m. (1,540.6 ft.). 

 The first cut in the line reveals argillaceous and chloritic schists 

 striking nearly north and dipping sharply to the east. Gray and 

 partly friable quartzites intercalated with disintegrated chloritic 

 schist, yellowish and reddish talcose clays, and light gray quartzites 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



dipping east 75°, bring us to the 242d werst, where black dolomites 

 of fine grain intercalated with thin veins of calcite dip along with 

 the quartzites. Further on black argillaceous schists and chlorite and 

 argilo-chloritic schists appear. At the 230th werst the gabbros of 

 Douplianoi-kamen, a southern continuation of Teplogorskaja-sopka, 

 are met. From the 215th werst, at the maximum elevation of 

 469.7 m., the road pursues the crest of the water divide between the 

 affluents of the Wejai and the affluents of the Koiwa, and descends 

 rapidly for 43 wersts to the station Pachya. In the cuts between 

 the 189th and 185th wersts black argillaceous schists occur. Beyond 

 the station Bielaia, in a cut on the 184th werst, a light gray arkose 

 coarse-grained sandstone appears, and further on argillaceous schists 

 alternating with finely stratified sandstone. At the 177th werst 

 light gray, compact and dark gray crystalline limestones of middle 

 Devonic appear with Oyathophyllum. From this point to the station 

 Pachya the upper Devonic limestones appear with Cyrthia murchi- 

 sonia, Atrypa reticularis, Orthis striatula, etc. Beyond Pachya the 

 road enters the Carbonic deposits, which it follows to Vsieswiatskaia. 

 A cut at the 166th werst shows compact gray finegrained limestones 

 C I b with Spirifer mosquensis, Productus cora, Pr. semireticulatus, 

 Pr. Humboldtii, Chonetes variolaris, Fusulinella sphceroidea, etc. 

 From here to Vsieswiatskaia only a few outcrops are seen of white 

 quartzose, fine grained sandstone and clays. The occurrence of 

 Carbonic measures continues. At the 122d werst C f b again is seen 

 with Spirifer mosquensis, Pr. cora, Pr. semiret. Near to the junction 

 of the Arkhipovka and the Tschoussowaia C 2 crops out with Fusulina 

 vemeuili, Pr. cora, Spirifer stri., Streptorhynchus eximiceformis, etc. 



The limestones of the upper Carbonic dipping northeast in the 

 cut of the 121st werst hold a thin bed of calcareous sandstones of 

 greenish gray, with remains of calamites, species of Productus, etc., 

 interstratified with a gray conglomerate and an arenaceous schistose 

 clay. The presence of this permo-carbonic sandstone between the 

 upper carbonic limestones dipping to the northeast is explained by 

 a reversed fold to the southwest. 



To the north of the station Tchoussowaia the outcrops of the 

 white Gypsum of the permo-carbonic series are seen on a little hill. 

 From the station Tchoussowaia to Perm, a distance of 119 wersts, 

 only Permo-Carbonic, Permian and post-pliocene exposures are 

 found in the infrequent and shallow cuts. Between the stations 

 Lievchino and Motowilikha the road follows the right bank of 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



the Kama. At the 11th werst a gray, friable, calcareous sand- 

 stone P i appears. Between the village Malaia-Yezowaia and 

 Motowilikha is an outcrop of gray friable, partly calciferous sand- 

 stone P \ horizontally bedded and alternating with marly clays of 

 reddish brown and gray marls. Near Motowilikha the hill is cut 

 by the deep valley of the rivers Motowilikha and Iwa. On the 

 light side of this valley in a hill known as Wychka the greenish or 

 reddish gray calciferous sandstones Pi crop out, alternating with 

 clay marls of deep red and thin seams of light gray marl, all covered 

 by sandy clay of yellowish brown, and pebbles. From here to Perm 

 the outcrop is almost continuous of more or less friable calciferous 

 sandstones of greenish or reddish gray color alternating with deep 

 red or gray clay marls, aud covered by post-pliocene deposits, more 

 or less yellowish brown sandy clay, yellow or gray argillaceous sand 

 and pebbles. The dip near Perm and Motowilikha is very gentle, 

 but visible S-3°. [L. G., X.] 



Perm. — The city is built on the left bank of the great river 

 Kama, which resembles in many superficial features the upper 

 Missouri. The first view of this river at Perm, (which is 650 kilo- 

 meters over its bed from its source, and about 700 kilometers from 

 its junction with the Volga), is likely to cause astonishment at its 

 breadth and importance ; and indeed at the delta near Bogovodskoie 

 where it joins the mighty Volga, the Kama appeared in August to 

 be the larger stream of the two. The city of Perm is built on 

 quite high hills which are cut deeply by the Tchoussowaia and by 

 ravines, one of which latter is a short distance north of the town. 

 The Kama is perhaps three-quarters of a mile broad at the landing 

 place of Perm and its banks are reddish on the steep face next to 

 the water. The shores are well covered with sod and the hills back 

 of the flats on the right bank are well w r ooded and from 100 to 250 

 feet high, showing in places clearings and cultivated farms. 



On the hills of Kama's left bank as well as on those laid bare by 

 the ravines just alluded to, the beds of the upper part of the lower 

 Permian stage, are well exhibited, (P\). They are gray or brownish 

 gray sandstones interstratified with more or less marly red and 

 brownish red clays. 



In the river section and also in the ravine just alluded to, these 

 beds are partially covered by a more or less arenaceous clay, inter- 

 calated with sand passing in places into gravel. These last deposits 

 belong to the post-pliocene era. The typical Permian of Perm 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



contains large deposits of copper minerals (principally cupriferous 

 sandstones) which have been exploited until very recently and the 

 ore smelted at the works of Motowilikha. The lower horizon P* of 

 lower Permian can be seen in the mountain named Tschourbina 

 which is on the right bank of the Kama opposite the mouth of the 

 Tschoussowaia. This horizon of gray calcareous slaty marls inter- 

 stratified with gypsum and reddish brown sandstones carries the 

 bed Pi composed of greenish gray sandstone, interstratified with 

 reddish brown clay. The right bank of the Kama opposite the 

 city of Perm is low and barren, and formed of post pliocene de- 

 posits such as gray and brownish gray argillaceous sands with beds 

 of pebbles and recent deposits. A short distance down the stream 

 from Perm these sands lie on the Permian bed ~P\ which contains 

 somewhat cupriferous sandstone. 



Throughout the entire distance from Perm to the confluence of 

 the Kama with the Volga, the banks of the former river exhibit 

 exclusively Permian measures. The overlying beds are con- 

 sidered by some of the Russian geologists to be lower Triassic, but 

 others think they are not sufficiently well known to be ascribed 

 either to the upper Permian or the lower Triassic, and designate 

 them Permo-Triassic or PT, and call them provisionally Tartarian. 



For two thirds of the distance from Perm to the Volga only the 

 lower Permian beds P*, and Quaternary are seen, unless the deposit 

 at Kerakoulino below Sarapoul be considered Tartarian in accord- 

 ance with the views of some members of the Russian Geological 

 Survey. M. Stuckenberg, who is the author of L. G., XI, which des- 

 cribes the geology from Perm to Nijni-Novgorod. and was also the 

 leader of this part of the excursion, holds this to be erroneous. Ac- 

 cording to him the middle Permian (P 2 ) commences to appear at 

 Tikhia-Gory, and continues to Sentiaki where the upper Permian (or 

 Tartarian) appears and lasts to and beyond Tschistopol. The 

 further localities on the river from here to Laichew are credited by 

 him only with the middle Permian P 2 . For the rest of the Kama's 

 course, these higher beds with Quaternary persist. He states that 

 in the Kama section the lower Permian is represented by but one 

 member, V\, which consists of gray or brownish gray sandstone, 

 interstratified with more or less nearly red or reddish brown clays, 

 often containing calcareous concretions. Very rarely are found 

 remains of conchifers accompanied more frequently by remains of 

 plants. This bed is 70 to 80 inches thick in the sections near Perm, 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Ossa, Ochansk, Sarapoul, etc., and disappears finally further down 

 near Elabouga. 



The middle stage of the Permian (P 2 ) is composed of limestones, 

 dolomites and gray clay marls, and contains the organic remains 

 characteristic of the Zechstein of Germany. It crops out in incom- 

 plete sections in the banks of the Kama, between its confluence with 

 the Ij and its confluence with the Volga. At Elabouga the bed P 2 

 is seen lying on the lower stage ~P\. 



The upper stage P 3 or PT is seen between Sarapoul and the 

 nearest confluent of the Kama to the south 9 covering occasionally 

 the middle stage. It consists principally of clays and marls of a 

 variously tinted red, alternating with beds of white, greenish or 

 gray color. Organic remains (conchifers) are very rare. 



The post-pliocene deposits which crop out in the banks of the 

 Kama are represented partly by a fluviatile terrace, and partly by 

 sediments deposited in the Caspian basin of this period : or, to be 

 more accurate, in the series of lakes which were in communication 

 with that basin. These deposits crop out between Tchistopol and the 

 mouth of the river, by preference on the left bank. The post-plio- 

 cene terrace is composed of yellowish brown clays with which sands 

 are oftentimes associated. The Caspian beds though nearly of 

 the same nature as those of the post-pliocene terrace are more 

 sandy. These beds contain the remains of mollusks still living in the 

 east of Russia. The fresh or brackish water forms are often accom- 

 panied by Caspian marine forms. Here and there in the post-plio- 

 cene deposits, bones of the Mammoth, and other animals of that 

 epoch are found. Not very long since a tolerably complete skeleton 

 of a young mammoth was discovered on the right bank of the Kama 

 above Laichew. Below this town and near the confluence of the 

 Volga and Kama isolated bones of post-pliocene mammals have 

 frequently been seen. 



In that part of the Volga between the Kama and Nijni-Novgorod, 

 and for a considerable distance above and below these points, 

 travellers have invariably been struck by the great difference between 

 the two banks. Except in a few localities where the river is con- 

 siderably deflected to the left (i. e. E [?])the right bank presents a 

 continuous succession of escarpments and outcrops of rock in place. 

 The left bank, on the contrary, forms an alluvial valley, which, 



9 M. Stuckenberg says: " Entre Sarapoul et le confluent de la Kama." 

 L. G. XI. 2. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



penetrating several kilometers into the interior of the country pre- 

 sents Quaternary terraces in gentle echelons. When the confluents 

 of the Volga on the left bank unite with the major stream, their 

 valleys are merged into vast spaces like lacustrine basins which owe 

 their origin to the impeded flow of the melting snows and the strong 

 floods of spring. At the confluence with the Kama the lacustrine 

 enlargement begins in the Volga, twenty-five kilometers above 

 Laichew and extends south to Spassk and the ruins of the old town 

 of Bolgary. In the months of May and June the waters of the 

 Volga and Kama at this junction occupy a basin so extensive that 

 from a steamboat it is occasionally impossible to see the shores. In 

 these cases the level of the water is 12 to 13 meters above the normal 

 level. But in the month of August the two rivers have returned to 

 their original beds and the water level has attained its minimum. 

 It happens frequently at this season that the steamers seeking the 

 sinuous and constantly changing channels run aground. This shal- 

 lowness is most annoying toward Nijni-Novgorod and above. 



The left bank of the Volga between the Kama and Nijni-Novgorod 

 shows no older rocks. Most frequently only recent sediments are 

 seen. In some rare localities are found post-pliocene deposits, clays 

 and sands of the terraces, and between the mouth of the Kama and 

 Kazan Caspian lacustrine deposits. 



The right bank throughout the whole distance is of middle and 

 upper Permian and of Tartarian or Permo-Triassic age. The 

 middle Permian stage, the representative of the German Zech- 

 stein, is composed of limestones and dolomites, partly of oolitic 

 structure, with interstratitied beds of silex, and more or less consider- 

 able deposits or accumulations of Gypsum. This stage, which con- 

 tains almost everywhere many organic remains characteristic of the 

 German Zechstein, rises from beneath the upper stage between 

 Bogorodskoie (the mouth of the Kama) and Kozlovka (opposite the 

 mouth of the river Ilet and 30 kilometers below the town of 

 Sviajsk). The upper stage (P 3 ) or the Tartarian (PT) consists princi- 

 pally of different colored (red, pink, white, greenish and greenish 

 gray) marls, accompanied by thin beds of white limestone, variously 

 colored clays, and sandstone. This bed is very little fossiliferous, 

 and contains only some conchifers. 10 



10 Fifteen years ago the opinion was held by certain Russian geologists that 

 the beds of iridescent marls P. or PT were parallel formations with a part of 

 the beds P 2 ., with passage of the marls into these latter horizontally. Now, 

 thanks to the labors of the Geological Survey and to recent researches of the 

 geologists of Kazan, it is beyond doubt that P 2 and PT are independent stages 

 bedded the one in the other. [L. G., IX, p. 10.] 



30 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



At the landing place of the village Bogorodskoie, a little above 

 the mouth of the Kama, the following is a section of the right bank. 



P 3 — Light red and brownish red marl. 

 P 2 — Greenish gray marl. 



Gray limestone, finely stratified with brown spots, contain- 

 ing casts of conchifers. 



Brown, friable sandstone, with white strata. 



Finely stratified gray marl. 



Boulders. 



The beds, which are hidden by boulders, are shown a short dis- 

 tance below. 



P 2 — Finely stratified grayish limestone, .... 0"75 m. 



Friable sandstone, 075 



Gray marl, 0'25 



Boulders 2"5 



Between the above two outcrops, in a rocky promontory, are 

 shown : 



P 2 — Finely stratified, gypsiferous limestone, soiling 



the fingers, 0*5 m. 



Finely stratified, grayish limestone, with remains 



of conchifers, 2- 



Gray clay marl, interstratified with gypsum, and 

 containing many specimens of Lingula orien- 



talis 0'5 



Gray oolitic limestone, abounding in fossils char- 

 acteristic of the Zechstein, 10*5 



A limestone analogous to the last crops out immediately at water 

 level at 2-3 wersts above Bogorodskoie. 



Near to the landing place at Kozmodemiansk, on the Volga, the 

 following section was made : 



P 3 (PT) — Light red marl with greenish and gray 



beds, 15* ra. 



Light gray sandstone, 2* 



Reddish brown marl with greenish gray beds, 3" 



Brownish gray friable sandstone, 1* 



Boulders, 1* 



Boulders beneath which appear a gray marl, . 6" 



The right bank of the Volga between Kozmodemiansk and Nijni- 

 Novgorod. — Here are found upper Permian, Mesozoic and Post- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



pliocene deposits. The first of these predominate in all the outcrops 

 and are almost always covered by the others. The upper Permian, 

 P 3 or PT, attains a thickness of 100 m. and more. It is developed 

 in an uninterrupted series of marls, sandstones, conglomerates and 

 more rarely limestones. 



The predominance in the series of this or that deposit affords a 

 differentiation of the following horizons : 



A. Clay and marls with interstratified beds of limestone. 



B. Sands and conglomerates with subordinated marls. 



C. Marls and sands with subordinated sandstones. 



D. Sandstones and sands with subordinated marls. 



E. The same rocks with beds of limestones and conglomerates. 

 In all the sections the horizons B and C are the most defi- 

 nitely and best expressed. The horizon A is in most cases eroded. 

 The lower horizons are most frequently masked by slips and 

 detritus and are not very visible, except near the villages of Issady, 

 Barmina, and Wassilssoursk. The fauna is represented by numerous 

 conchifer mollusks of the group Anthracosidce, especially by the 

 genera Palueomutela, Oligodon and Palceoanodonta ; by rare gastero- 

 pods Esther la, Palceonlscidce, Ceratod us and Stegocephali. The plant 

 remains are generally badly preserved. 



The Jurassic and Volgian deposits cover in separated islets the 

 Permian series of the environs of Issady, Barmina and Wassilssoursk. 

 These are dark gray clays with subordinate beds of sand, conglomer- 

 ates and limestone. Their ages are referred to the Callovian, Kim- 

 meridgian and Volgian epochs. 



The Post-pliocene is represented by yellow loessoid clays enclosing 

 a few pebbles and crystalline rocks. 



Below Issady the Volga valley's right slope forms an enormous 

 curve, in the upper part of which are seen from the steamboat yellow 

 outcrops more frequently of loessoid clays (Q x ),gray outcrops of the 

 Jura (J) partly hidden by thickets, and below, the outcrops of 

 Permian (Tartarian) rocks (P 3 or PT). The Jura, which is of excep- 

 tional interest in this section, is unfortunately less visible to-day than 

 a few years ago, when Sibirtzew, in 1886, established the following 

 sequence : 



(1) Yellowish brown loessoid clay. 



(2) Dark green sandstone with Amelia mosquensis of the Volgian 

 horizon (horizon of Oxynoticeras catenulatuni). 



(3) Black bituminous clay without fossils. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



(4) Brownish and yellow clay with a bed of limestone (Oppelia, 

 Perisphinctes) determined as a zone of Hoplites of the Kim- 

 meridgian. 



(5) Sandstone of the lower Callovian and conglomerates with 

 Cosmoceras Goiueri, Cadoceras sublceve, some forms of Peri- 

 sphinctes, accompanied by Belemnites, Protocardium, Con- 

 cinnum, etc. 



(6) Gray clays of the gypsiferous lower Callovian, with prints of 

 Cadoceras. 



(7) Variously colored marls. 



(8) Sands and conglomerates with subordinate marls. 



(9) Marls interstratified with limestone. 



Issady — Nijni-Novgorod. — Among the outcrops on the old right 

 bank, between the landing places of Issady and Nijni-Novgorod, 

 that below Takinsky deserves especial attention, on account of the 

 appearance of the middle and lower horizons of the marly and 

 sandy Permian rocks, notably the series Q — marly, D — arenaceous 

 marly, E — marly calcareous. 



Nijni-Novgorod. — The city is situated on the high and rather steep 

 right slope of the valley, at the confluence of the Volga with the 

 Oka. On the side of the Volga the slope is partly covered with 

 vegetation, partly with buildings, debris, etc. On the Oka side, on 

 the contrary, fine outcrops permit one to see the structure. Two sec- 

 tions are especially characteristic : the first in the banks of the river 

 Yarilo and the other in the ravine near the camp. The first of these 

 sections is seen near the town opposite the steamboat landing of the 

 Oka, in the great ravine of the Yarilo. The section is as follows: 



Post-pliocene, yellow lotssoid, sandy argillaceous clay with a very 

 few marly and a few pebble inclusions. 



Permian deposits : 



A. Marls imperfectly visible in the right slope. 



B. Thick bed of sand, sandstones and conglomerates, with sub- 

 ordinate beds of marls. In the left slope the conglomerate 

 of this horizon contains casts of Palceomutela. 



C. Thick deposits of variously colored marls interstratified with . 

 limestones and many beds of sands and sandstones. 



Between the upper layers of this bed there is a thin layer of 

 much disintegrated limestone, containing numerous perfectly pre- 

 served shells of various Anthracosidai, especially the groups Palozo- 

 muiela key ser liny i, Palaioanodonta Jischeri and Oligodon. These 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



same shells are encountered in other beds of limestones and marls, 

 but very badly preserved and in the form of interior casts. 



The lower horizons of the Permian deposits appear more dis- 

 tinctly above and below in the ravine. There is visible 30 or 40 

 meters below the place just described, between variously colored 

 marls, a bed of sandstone and conglomerate in which are encountered 

 the shells and other remains of ganoids, accompanied by casts of 

 conchifers. 



From the plateau the view extends far into the valleys of the 

 Volga and Oka and over the terraces of the left slope of the valley. 



From Nijni- Novgorod to Moscoiv. — The railway from Nijni- 

 Novgorod to Moscow, following up the valley of the Klinzma 

 crosses a band of Permian, and later a long and narrow belt of 

 middle Carbonic limestones, following which it again crosses a 

 narrow band of Permian before reaching the Jura-Cretaceous or 

 Volgian on which it continues all the way to the ancient capital. 



The Oural excursion was thus concluded after having passed 

 rapidly over 3,750 kilometers, (2,330 miles) of the most important 

 of the geological horizons in south and east European Russia, in- 

 cluding a long and typical part of the Volga, nearly a sixth of the 

 entire length of the Oural Mountains both in Siberia arid in Europe, 

 and more than half the length of the river Kama. 



The insight which this journey affords to the geological structure 

 of central European and Asiatic Russia could not have been 

 obtained in any other investigation of equal length and time, nor 

 in any other less well prepared, illustrated, and conducted. 11 



11 The sincere thanks of all students of geology are due to his Imperial 

 Majesty, the Tsar, for the boundless liberality he extended to the foreign 

 visitors ; to the Kussian geologists for the enormous and intelligently directed 

 labor they devoted to the preparation of the means for demonstrating their 

 vast and difficult problems to hundreds of strangers ignorant of their customs 

 and language ; to their energy and pluck in carrying out their programme 

 without a mishap ; and to the hospitality and kindness of all classes of their 

 countrymen, who made the long journey a continuous succession of pleasur- 

 able experiences. 




458 proceedings of the academy of [1897. 



November 2. 

 Mr. Chas. P. Perot in the Chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



November 9. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" New Brazilian Streptaxidse," by Henry A. Pilsbry. 

 "Notes on Living and Extinct Species of North American 

 Bovidse," by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



November 16. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



The death of Harrison Allen, M. D., on the 14th inst, was 

 announced. Whereupon, after a statement by the Chair of his 

 services to the Academy, the following minute was unanimously 

 adopted : — 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia desires 

 to place on record its appreciation of the great loss it has sustained 

 in the death of Dr. Harrison Allen. His earliest scientific 

 work was accomplished within its walls and his subsequent investi- 

 gations, including those which engaged his attention at the time of 

 his death, were all either directly or indirectly contributions to its 

 credit and standing in the scientific world. 



In the several executive and administrative offices to which he 

 had been appointed — Corresponding Secretary, Member of the 

 Council and of the Library Committee — his performance of the 

 duties of each was characterized by loyalty to the best interests of ' 

 the society. 



While his fellow-members rejoice in the just recognition accorded 

 him by the scientific world as Comparative Anatomist, Mammalogist 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



and Anthropologist, they deeply regret the untimely loss of his 

 co-operation. 



As a student of the works of nature he was conscientious, accu- 

 rate and thorough ; as a frieud he was generous, sympathetic and 

 helpful. 



The members of the Academy, while thus giving expression to 

 their regret for the death of their associate desire to convey to his 

 wife and children their sincere sympathy in their irreparable be- 

 reavement. 



November 23. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Plants of Lewis and Clark's Expedition 

 across the Continent during the years 1804-1806," by Thomas 

 Meehan, was presented for publication. 



November 30. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " New and Little-known Bees from Washington 

 State," by T. D. A. Cockerell, was presented for publication. 



The death, on the 24th inst., of George H. Horn, M. D., was 

 announced and a resolution was adopted authorizing the appoint- 

 ment of a committee to make arrangements for a Memorial Meeting 

 to commemorate the services to science of Harrison Allen, M. D., 

 and George H. Horn, M. D. 



A minute from the last meeting of the Anthropological Section 

 of a communication made by the late Dr. Harrison Allen on a 

 method of comparing skulls was read by Mr. Chas. Morris, who 

 was requested, in view of the fact that it is probably Dr. Allen's 

 last contribution to science, to prepare it for publication in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy. 



Mr. J. Wain Vaux was elected a member. 



Dr. Fridtjof Nansen of Christiania, Norway, was elected a corres- 

 pondent. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



REPTILES FROM SONORA, SINALOA AND JALISCO, MEXICO, WITH A 

 DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF SCELOPORUS. 



BY JOHN VAN DENBURGH. 



This paper is an enumeration of the species of reptiles contained 

 in three small collections, and is presented in the hope that it may 

 be of use to those who are interested in the distribution of Mexican 

 lizards and snakes. Two of these collections are in the California 

 Academy of Sciences: the first, gathered in Sonora by Dr. Gustav 

 Eisen and Mr. Walter E. Bryant in April and May, 1S92; the 

 second, due to the efforts of Dr. Eisen and Mr. Frank H. Vaslit in 

 Sinaloa and Jalisco in October and November, 1894. The third 

 collection was secured by Dr. David Starr Jordan and a j)arty of 

 students at Mazatlan in December, 1894, and January, 1895, and is 

 in the Zoological Museum of Leland Stanford Junior University. 



1. Phyllodactylus tuberculosus Wiegm. 



A fine specimen of this gecko (Cal. Acad. Sci., No. 3,389) was 

 obtained at Matzalan, Sinaloa, in October. The California Academy 

 possesses two specimens (248, 249) secured in Durango by Mr. C. A. 

 Hamilton. 



2. Gehyra mutilata (Wiegm.). 



Eighteen specimens of this lizard (C. A. S.. 3,350-3,367) were 

 collected at San Bias and one (C. A. S., 3,180) at Tepic, Jalisco. 

 Females taken in October contain eggs which must have been nearly 

 ready for laying; femoral pores vary from eleven to twenty on each 

 side. In connection with Dr. Giinther's suggestion that this species 

 has been recently introduced into America, 1 it may be of interest to 

 note that geckos sometimes come to San Francisco in the holds of 

 vessels. 



3. Coleonyx variegatus Baird. 



Several specimens were caught at San Miguel de Horcasitas, 

 in Sonora, in April, 1892. 



4. Anolis nebulosus (Wiegm.). 



Dr. Eisen and Mr. Vaslit secured this species (3,181-3,188) at 

 Tepic, Jalisco, in October. The California Academy possesses also 



l Biol. Centr. Amer. Rept., 1893, p. 81. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



two specimens (C. A. S. 351, 852) caught by Captain Wm, Lund on 

 the Tres Marias. Dr. Jordan's party found the species at Mazatlan. 



5. Iguana igvana rhinolopha (Wiegin.). 



Three specimens were obtained at Mazatlan, Sinaloa, and four 

 (C. A. S., 3,339-3,342) at San Bias, Jalisco. 



6. Ctenosaura teres (Harlan). 



This species is more numerously represented, both in the Stanford 

 University collection and in that belonging to the California Acade- 

 my, than any other species. These specimens were shot at Mazatlan, 

 Tepic and San Bias. Many of these specimens are very large and 

 have dorsal crests so well developed that I have no hesitation in 

 abandoning Cope's brachyloj)ha as a name for them, although I 

 have seen no specimens from near the type locality of Harlan's 

 Cyclura teres. It well may be that western specimens differ from 

 the typical form, but until some better character has been found to 

 separate them I cannot recognize them as distinct. 



7. Crotaphytus baileyi Stejn. 



One specimen was brought back from Hermosillo, Sonora. 



8. Callisaurus ventralis 'Hallow). 



A Gridiron-tailed Lizard (C. A. S., No. 3,390) taken at Mazatlan, 

 Sinaloa, in October, appears to be identical with Californian and 

 Arizonan examples of this species. Its femoral pores, however, are 

 only ten instead of from fourteen to eighteen. This locality is much 

 farther south than any at which this lizard had previously been 

 found. The species was found also at San Miguel de Horcasitas, 

 Sonora, in May, 1892. 



9. Holbrookia maculata approximans (Baird). 



A typical specimen of this subspecies was caught at Duras Nillas, 

 Sonora, in May, 1892. Several young from Mazatlan, January 25, 

 1895, are also referred to this form, although their snouts appear to 

 be more pointed than those of Arizonan examples. 



10. TJta ornata B. & G. 



This lizard was obtained in Sonora at San Miguel de Horcasitas, 

 in April, and at Duras Nillas, in May, 1892. 



11. Sceloporus utiformis Cope. 



Numerous specimens of this Sceloporus were shot at Tepic, Jalisco, 

 in October. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



12. Sceloporus pyrrhocephalus Cope. 



A single young male (C. A. S., No. 3,329) agrees closely with 

 Cope's original description of this species. It was found at Tepic, 

 Jalisco, in October. 



13. Sceloporus obscurus new species. 



Two male specimens, one young and one adult, obtained at Tepic 

 appear to differ in important characters from all known species. 



Type. — Cal. Acad. Sci., No. 3,213, Tepic, Jalisco, Mexico, Gustav 

 Eisen and Frank H. Vaslit, November, 1894. 



Description. — Upper head-shields nearly smooth ; enlarged supra- 

 oculars in one row, separated from mesial head-shields by a com- 

 plete series of small scales; two scales on canthus rostralis; frontal 

 divided transversely but not longitudinally ; interparietal wider 

 than long ; parietals small ; ear-opening with very slight denticula- 

 tion of scales much smaller than those immediately preceding. 

 Dorsal scales strongly keeled, sharply pointed, without marginal 

 serrations, in nearly parallel longitudinal rows. Laterals keeled 

 and pointed, in oblique rows, changing gradually to the larger dor- 

 sals and smaller ventrals. Twenty-eight to thirty dorsals on a line 

 between interparietal plate and base of tail ; about seven equaling 

 length of shielded part of head. Ventrals smooth, emarginate ; 

 gulars weakly keeled, emarginate. Upper caudals considerably 

 larger than dorsals. Distance between base of fifth and end of 

 fourth toe equals distance between end of snout and posterior bor- 

 der of ear-opening. Tibia equals length of shielded part of head. 

 Sixteen to eighteen femoral pores on each side, the series not meet- 

 ing mesially. Males with enlarged postanal plates. 



All the upper surfaces are bluish steel-color, lighter and more 

 bluish about the centres of many scales, sometimes with bronze re- 

 flections, without collar or other markings of any kind except indis- 

 tinct cross-bars on the toes. The lower surfaces are similarly 

 colored, but are paler, with a greenish or bronze cast on the throat 

 and chest and a large area of campanula blue on each side of the 

 belly. There is a light streak along the middle of the throat. 



mm. mm. 



Snout to anus 70 77 



Length of tail — 106 



Snout to ear 17 18 



Shielded part of head 15 16 



Fore limb 35 36 



Hind limb 45 59 



Base of fifth to end of fourth toe . .18 21 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



14. Sceloporus boulengeri Stejn. 



A very large number of Seelopori collected at Mazatlan and 

 Tepic, are certainly identical with Dr. Stejneger's S. boulengeri. I 

 believe that this is the same form as Cope's S. oligoporus. It may 

 even be true that these are not distinguishable from S. horridus, 

 but, without an opportunity to examine the types or specimens from 

 the type localities, it seems best to use a name of unquestionable 

 applicability. 



15. Cnemidophorus deppii lineatissimus Cope. 



Two specimens (C. A. S., 3,344, 3,343) taken at San Bias, Jalisco, 

 in October, 1894, seem typical of this lizard. 



16. Cnemidophorus gularis B. & G. 



A lizard caught at Guaymas, Sonora, May 12, 1892, is identical 

 with Arizonan specimens of this species. 



17. Cnemidophorus mariarum Giinther. 



A large number of lizards from Mazatlan, San Bias and Tepic 

 seem to be identical with Gunther's specimens from the Tres Marias- 

 Islands. Whether they are also identical with Cope's C. communis 

 and Peter's C. mexicanus I have not been able to decide. 



The upper lateral light lines are much farther apart than in C. 

 gularis, causing the specimens to bear some resemblance to C. sez- 

 lineatus. 



18. Sympholis lippiens Cope. 



One typical specimen (C. A. S., 3,127) of this rare snake was 

 taken at Tepic in October. 



19. Bascanion flagellum frenatum Stejn. 



The cross-bars on the neck are rather faint in a snake of this sub- 

 species (C. A. S., 3,412) which Mr. Bryant procured at Hermosillo, 

 Sonora, in May, 1892. This snake was brought back alive and died 

 in San Francisco in October, 1892. 



20. Basoanion semilineatum Cope. 



This racer was taken by the Academy's collectors at both Tepic 

 (Nos. 3,131, 3,132) and Mazatlan (No. 3,391) in October. 



21. Bascanion lineatum Bocourt. 



A single example (C. A. S., No. 3,130) with one hundred and 

 eighty-four gastrosteges, one hundred and twenty-one urosteges, and 

 scales in seventeen rows, was shot at Tepic in October. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



22. Hypsiglena torquata (Giinth.). 



The Academy's collectors secured a single representative (C. A. S., 

 No. 3,394) of this species at Mazatlan. 



23. Natrix valida (Kenn.). 



One specimen was secured at Tepic in October. 



24. Hapsidophrys diplotropis (Giinth.). 



Two typical specimens of this beautiful snake were obtained at 

 Mazatlan in October. 



25. Sibon punctatum (Peters). 



Dr. Jordan's party secured a single snake of this species at Mazat- 

 lan. Its scale rows are nineteen and its gastrosteges one hundred 

 and fifty-five. 



26. Sibon personatum Cope. 



One snake of this kind was caught at Tepic, Jalisco, in October. 

 It has one hundred and sixty-three gastrosteges, eighty urosteges, 

 and scales in twenty-one rows. 



27. Trimorphodon biscutatus (D. & B.). 



Two specimens from Mazatlan are in the Stanford University 

 collection. They have gastrosteges 249, 250, urosteges 72, 79, scale 

 rows 24, 25. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



SCAPHOPODA OF THE SAN DOMINGO TERTIARY. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY AND BENJ. SHARP, M. D. 



This account of the Scaphopods of the San Domingo tertiary 

 strata variously denominated Miocene or Oligocene, is an outcome 

 of investigations undertaken by the writers in the course of work 

 upon a monograph of the Scaphopoda published in the " Manual of 

 Conchology." It is based upon collections made by "VV. M. Gabb, 

 and briefly described in the Transactions of the American Philoso- 

 phical Society. 



Owing probably to Gabb's illness when he prepared the palae- 

 ontological part of the " Geology of San Domingo," and to his death 

 before its publication, the study of his material seems to have been 

 incomplete. Our examination of the material shows that of six 

 species described or recorded by him from the beds in question, 

 Dentalium rudis is the tube of a Serpuloid worm ; D. ponderosum is, 

 as Guppy has already claimed, a form of D. dissimile of the Jamai- 

 can Oligocene ; D. affine bears a preoccupied name, and Gadus dom- 

 inguensis is not that species, but a new one allied to the form called 

 Ditrupa dentalina by Mr. Guppy. Among the specimens of the 

 species discriminated by Gabb, and in several trays of undetermined 

 specimens, we have been able to distinguish ten new and well-charac- 

 terized forms, besides several which are probably distinct species, 

 but being represented by young or very fragmentary individuals 

 have been ignored in the following account. 1 



As to the age of the deposit in San Domingo furnishing these 

 remains, and that of the same horizon at Bowden, Jamaica, there is 

 diversity of opinion. Gabb and some others have considered it 

 Miocene; and in view of the considerable number of species still 

 existing in the Gulf of Mexico, and the close relationship of many 

 of the extinct forms with living species, this estimate is not without 

 support. Conrad, however, in 1852 2 and again in 1866 3 expressed 



1 Among these, fragments of a species probably referable to our subgenus 

 Episiplion may be mentioned. This group is represented in the German 

 Oligocene by Dentalium otloi Sharp & Pils. 



2 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852. p. 198. 



3 Check List of the Invertebrate Fossils of North America, Eocene and 

 Oligocene. Smiths. Misc. Coll., VII, no. 200, p. 37. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



his belief that the San Domingo deposit was Oligocene. This opin- 

 ion has recently been re-affirmed by Dall 4 who considers the Bow- 

 den marls of Jamaica and the beds of similar age in Santo Domingo 

 to be upper Oligocene. 



In considering so small a fragment of the fauna as the Scapho- 

 poda constitute, a full discussion of this question is uncalled for ; the 

 more because the Scaphopods afford no conclusive data. 



Key to species of Scaphopoda. 



I. Shell largest at the aperture, tapering to the apex, 



Dentalium. 

 a. With distinct longitudinal sculpture. 



b. Circular sculpture conspicuous ; tube slowly taper- 

 ing. 



c. Somewhat compressed ; sculpture of many 

 longitudinal cords alternating with threads, 

 crossed by close, circular lamellae. 



D. callioglyptum. 

 c'. Circular in section ; sculpture of many lon- 

 gitudinal alternately smaller threads, crossed 

 by regular, blunt, obliquely encircling stria?, 



D. Tryoni. 

 b'. Circular sculptured inconspicuous. 



c. Tube markedly conical, with 6 or more ribs 

 at apex, secondary and numerous tertiary 

 riblets developed in the intervals, D. gabbi. 

 c'. Tube very slowly tapering, with six narrow, 

 distant and sharply defined longitudinal ribs; 

 intervals wide and plain, D. Cossmannianum, 

 c". Square at apex, with 4 ribs, numerous threads 

 soon developing in intervals but lost on larger 

 part of tube, which is circular and smooth, 



D. dissimile and var. ponderosum. 

 a'. No longitudinal sculpture. 



b. Tube nearly or quite circular in section, almost 

 straight, slender, considerably tapering; smooth 

 and polished, D. hay tense, 



b'. Tube ovate in section, being laterally compressed ; 

 slowly tapering, thin, smooth ; apex with a terminal 

 "sheath " and v-shaped slit, D. pyrum. 



*Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XIX, p. 304, 1896.' 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



b" . Tube oval in section, compressed between the con- 

 vex and concave sides ; slowly tapering ; moder- 

 ately arcuate ; smooth except for very fine growth 

 lines, D. precursor. 



II. Shell contracted toward the aperture, which is smaller than the 

 largest diameter of the tube; smooth, Cadulus. 



a. Acicular, much attenuated posteriorly, the greatest diam- 

 eter or " equator " very near the aperture. 



b. Length 6-7 mm., about 8 times the greatest diam- 

 eter, C. phenax. 

 b'. Length 8-12 mm., about 12 times the greatest diam- 

 eter, C. elegantissimus. 

 a'. Slender, but not conspicuously attenuated posteriorly, the 

 greatest diameter near the aperture, where there is a small 

 depression on the ventral side, C. depressicollis. 

 a". Stout and short, the greatest diameter near the anterior 

 third of the length, gradually tapering toward each end ; 

 length about 4} times greatest diameter, C. colobus. 



Dentalium Cossmannianum n. sp. PI. X, fig. 11 ; PI. XI, figs. 10, 11. 



Shell a hexagonal prism with slightly convex faces, slender, slowly 

 tapering, moderately solid, glossy. Sculpture: there are 6 very nar- 

 row equidistant longitudinal threads, well raised and sharply de- 

 fined, the wide intervals between them flat on the smaller end of the 

 shell, but become decidedly convex toward the larger end ; circular 

 sculpture of rather strongly impressed annular growth marks at un- 

 equal intervals, sometimes close, sometimes distant. Aperture not 

 preserved in the material before us, but apparently not oblique and 

 with nearly circular peristome but slightly modified in shape by the 

 longitudinal threads. Apex not known, but evidently hexagonal. 



Length of (broken) type specimen 23 mm.; greatest diam. at 

 larger end 35, at smaller end 2'7 mm. 



The type has lost from the smaller end a considerable portion of 

 its original length and probably somewhat less from the oral extrem- 

 ity. When perfect it probably measured not far from 45 or 50 mm. 

 The portion remaining is perfectly characteristic, and unlike any 

 Tertiary or living species of this region in the filiform riblets run- 

 ning from end to end, with wide convex intervals showing no inter- 

 mediate longitudinal sculpture, or only the faintest traces of riblets 

 in places, visible only under the lens at a certain angle of reflection. 

 This is the form mentioned by Gabb under his remark on D. dis- 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



simile, in his paper "On the Topography and Geology of Santo 

 Domingo," p. 244. It is named in honor of Maurice Cossmann of 

 Paris, whose fruitful labors upon the Parisian Eocene are justly 

 esteemed by workers upon Tertiary mollusks. 



Dentalium callioglyptum n. sp. PL X, figs. 10, 12 ; PI. XT, fig. 21. 



Shell large, solid and but very slightly curved ; noticeably com- 

 pressed between the convex and concave surfaces; decidedly taper- 

 ing. Sculpture, many longitudinal cords or riblets alternating with 

 threads, altogether numbering about 65 near aperture, about 40 

 near the middle of the length, the ridges averaging about the width 

 of the grooves ; the whole crossed by circular raised lamella? running 

 a little obliquely around the tube ; these lamella? very close, nearly 

 regular, most conspicuous in the intervals, and so fine that they are 

 scarcely visible to the unaided eye. The circular lamella? subobso- 

 lete toward the aperture in large specimens. Aperture slightly 

 oblique, judging by the lines of growth ; apex unknown ; but accord- 

 ing to the fragments before us both orifices are slightly oval in con- 

 sequence of the compression of the tube. 



Length unknown, but from the taper of the fragments probably 

 about 115 mm. ; greatest diam. of larger end of largest fragment 13, 

 least diam. of same 12 mm., length 15 mm. 



Another fragment from near the middle of the shell measures, 

 length 30, greatest diam. of larger end I'd, of smaller end 4 - 6 mm. ; 

 therefore tapering to the extent of 3 - 3 mm. in a length of 30 mm. 



The specimens were collected by Gabb, who referred them with a 

 " ? " to his D. affine. 



We at first thought to identify it with the recent D. cardials 

 Dal, which has similar file-like circular sculpture; but upon appeal- 

 ing to our kind friend at Washington for a comparison, the follow- 

 ing differential features became apparent: " D. cardmis is lighter ; 

 the fossil form is not so much curved and the elevated lines are dis- 

 tant, with no longitudinal sculpture between them ; the anterior part 

 of the adult carduus has fine longitudinal striae covering the inter- 

 spaces as well as the elevated riblets." 



D. Tryoni differs from this species in the character of the circular 

 stria? and some other features mentioned below. 



Dentalium Tryoni n. sp. PI. X, figs. 5, 9 ; PI. XI, fig. 22. 



Shell long, rather slender, slowly tapering and nearly straight, 

 the very slight curvature mainly posterior ; circular in section ; 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



quite thick and solid. Sculpture : many longitudinal threads about 

 as wide as the iutervals, alternately larger and smaller, crossed by 

 slightly less strong, regular, blunt, encircling stria?, rising into low 

 granules as they cross the longitudinals ; these striae are markedly 

 oblique, bending well forward on the concave and backward on the 

 convex side of the shell, and toward the larger end of adults be- 

 coming irregular and, in part, obsolete. Aperture and apex not 

 preserved, but both orifices are apparently circular. Estimated 

 length 90 mm. in a specimen having a greatest diam, of 8*5 mm. 



A fragment measures : length 36, diam. at larger end 7, at smaller 

 end 4" 7 mm. 



The strongly developed and decidedly oblique encircling sculp- 

 ture is conspicuous and characteristic. In D. carduus and D. callio- 

 glyptum the circular sculpture consists of sharp, raised lamella?; in 

 D. Tryoni of blunt cords, more widely spaced, and with the longi- 

 tudinal riblets, enclosing rhombic depressions (PI. XI, fig. 22). In 

 the imperfect specimen 36 mm. long, measured above, there are 33 

 longitudinal cords and threads at the smaller end, double that num- 

 ber at the larger, where some of the threads are very small. Be- 

 sides the alternation in size, there is a more or less marked teudency 

 for every fourth riblet to be larger, on the median portion of the 

 tube. The largest of the fragments (diam. 8*5 mm.) has about 84 

 subequal longitudinal threads. The increase in number of riblets 

 is by the regular intercalation of a thread in each interval, so that 

 at various ages a specimen would have 16, 32 and 64 riblets ; the 

 increase thereafter being confined to the convex side, where the in- 

 terposed threads appear earliest at each successive increase. 



In the general contour D. Tryoni is not unlike the living D. cap- 

 illosum Jeffr. 



Dentalium dissimile Guppy. PI. XI, figs. 3, 4, 5. 



Dentalium dissimile Guppy, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, XXII, p. 292, pi. 17, 

 f. 4 (1866). 



Dentalium ponderosurn Gabb, see below. 



This species, described by Mr. Guppy, from the island of Jamaica, 

 is apparently identical, as Guppy has stated, with a form collected 

 by Gabb in San Domingo. It is a member of the "group of D. 

 quadrapicale " as defined by us in the " Manual of Conchology, 5 — a 

 group distinguished by the quadrangular shape of the apex, the 

 tube having lateral, ventral and dorsal angles posteriorly. Abund- 



5 Vol. XVII, p. 31. 

 31 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



antly developed in the Pacific, this type is not known to have living 

 representatives in the Atlantic or Gulf of Mexico, although Miocene 

 and Pliocene forms have been found in the southern United States. 



In D. dissimile the tube is square at apex (PI. XI, figs. 4, 5), but 

 soon becomes circular in section. Each of the angles at and near 

 the apex is pinched up into a narrow rounded rib. The interven- 

 ing spaces are fiat and plain near the apex, but soon a median 

 thread or pair of threads arises, and a little later other threads ap- 

 pear in the intervals, until there are 30 to 36 threads, varying in 

 size, in the girth of the tube. This sculpture then gradually be- 

 comes weaker, leaving the larger part of the tube cylindrical and 

 smooth, except for circular striation (PL XI, fig. 3). The shell walls 

 are unusually thick. 



Ordinarily a specimen of mature growth loses a great part of the 

 sculptured portion by truncation, so that the square section of the 

 earlier part of the tube is hardly noticeable. This was the case with 

 Guppy's type. The other characters of this species may be seen by 

 reference to the figures here given and to Guppy's original descrip- 

 tion and figure. 



Var. ponderosum Gabb. PL X, figs. 1, 2, 3 ; PI. XI, figs. 15, 16. 



D. ponder osimi Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. (N. Ser.), XV, p. 244 

 (1873). 



Larger, heavier, excessively solid, the cavity reduced to a small 

 perforation by the excessive thickening of the shell. Quadrate form 

 and accompanying sculpture very soon disappearing ; form long 

 and slender. Aperture rather oblique, the peristome, when per- 

 fectly preserved, thin and sharp. 



In this remarkable form the thickness of the shell wall, when an 

 adult is broken across the tube, is greater than the diameter of the 

 orifice. The sculpture disappears sooner than in typical dissimile, 

 and the taper of the shell is very gradual. 



Dentalium Gabbi n. n. PI. X, figs. 6, 7, 13 ; PI. XI, figs. 1, 2. 



D. affine Gabb, Trans. Anier. Philos. Soc. (N. Ser.), XV, p. 244 (1873). 

 Not D. affine Deshayes, 1864, nor of Biondi, 1859. 



Shell slightly curved near the apex, the greater part of the length 

 nearly straight ; thick, solid and strong ; rapidly tapering. Sculp- 

 ture prominent near apex, weak and low toward aperture. At and 

 near the apex, hexagonal with six narrow rounded ribs at the angles, 

 but the symmetry often impaired by the prominence of one or more 

 of the secondary ribs ; the latter lie midway between the six primary 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



ribs, for the greater part are decidedly smaller than these, and at- 

 tain or fall short of the apex according to the age and consequent 

 degree of posterior truncation. In ihe secondary intervals there 

 arise a variable number of tertiary threads, generally one, two or 

 three in each space ; and at the aperture there is much variation in 

 the number of riblets and threads, different specimens having 36, 40, 

 52, etc. In perfectly preseived shells there is seen an excessively 

 fine but clear cut longitudinal striation in addition to the coarser 

 sculpture described. Growth-strise fine, inconspicuous and oblique. 

 Aperture slightly oblique, circular, the peristome bevelled to a thin 

 edge. Apex rather wide, the orifice subcircular, with a minute 

 notch on the convex side. 



Length 41 '5, diam. at aperture 7'4, at apex 2*3 mm. The largest 

 specimen measures 8 mm. diam. at aperture. 



A large, solid and markedly conical species, with very little 

 curve, and that mainly quite near the apex. It is somewhat like 

 D. disparile on a very large scale, and, as in that species, the num- 

 ber of ribs at the apex is subject to considerable variation, although 

 the fundamental form is hexagonal, the tube soon becoming circu- 

 lar. D. thalloides Conrad of the Claiborne Eocene lacks the fine, 

 clear-cut longitudinal striation of this species, and, moreover, tapers 

 much less rapidly. 



Gabb's diagnosis, published after his death, is not very full, and he 

 gave no figure. As the name imposed by him is preoccupied, we 

 have considered it best to present a detailed description, in proj)os- 

 ing a new name for the form. 



Dentalium haytense Gabb. PI. XI, figs. 8, 9. 



D. Itaytensis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. (N. Ser. ), XV, p. 244 

 (1873). 



Known only by fragments, the largest of which is probably one- 

 half the original length. These indicate an almost straight, rather 

 rapidly tapering but slender shell, circular or nearly so in section, 

 with smooth, polished surface ; growth-wrinkles light, rather irregu- 

 lar, running somewhat obliquely around the tube ; and there is an 

 occasional constriction so slight as to be hardly mentionable. No 

 trace of longitudinal sculpture. Shell moderately thick (as shown 

 by the section, fig. 8), but becoming very thin at the aperture. 

 Apex unknown. 



Length of type (broken at both ends) 9*4, diam. at larger end 

 1'28 x l - 35, at smaller end 0*68 mm. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



This is one of those simple species of the subgenus Lcevidentalium 

 which has no prominent specific characters. It is still readily dis- 

 tinguishable from other smooth forms of the Miocene or Oligocene 

 of this region. D. pyrum is, perhaps, nearest, but that has a dis- 

 tinctly ovate or pear-shaped section. 



Dentalium pyrum n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 6, 7. 



Fragments, by which alone this species is known to us, indicate a 

 shell of slight curvature and slow increase ; thin ; distinctly ovate in 

 section, compressed laterally, the narrow end of the egg-form toward 

 the concave side. Surface smooth except for light growth-lines, 

 polished. Apex with a narrowly oblong orifice, passing into a short, 

 narrowly V-shaped notch on the convex side of the tube ; the orifice, 

 except at the slit, surrounded by an erect sheath. 



Length of largest fragment 6*45, greatest diam. at larger end 1*8, 

 least 1*65 mm. ; diam. at smaller end 1*3 x T4 mm. 



The apical characters are exactly as in the recent Antillean D. 

 perlongum and D. matara Dall. It is the typical Antalis apex. 



Dentalium precursor n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 12, 13, 14. 



Shell small, thin, slowly tapering, moderately arcuate, compressed 

 between the convex and concave side?, the section therefore oval. 

 Surface smooth except for very fine growth-lines, without longitudi- 

 nal sculpture. Dimensions of type, which is broken at both ends : 

 length 5*6, transverse or greatest diam. at larger end *95, least "85 

 mm. 



A member of our subgenus Compressidens, 6 but less rapidly in- 

 creasing in transverse diameter than the several recent American 

 species, among which it is most like Dall's D. ophiodon. We know 

 of no allied form in the American tertiaries. It is readily distin- 

 guished from other smooth forms described herein by the vertically 

 compressed and more arcuate tube. 



Cadulus phenax n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 23, 2i. 



Shell very slender, acicular, well curved posteriorly ; rather 

 abruptly swollen quite near the aperture, contracting rapidly an- 

 teriorly, gradually tapering posteriorly to a small apex ; nearly 

 circular in section ; surface smooth, glossy, with slight growth lines 

 but no corrugation or circular riblets posteriorly. Aperture circu- 

 lar, somewhat oblique ; apical orifice circular with entire edge. 



Length 6*5, greatest diameter 0*8 mm. 



6 Type D. pressum Sharp & Pilsbry. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



Exceedingly similar to C. dentalinus Guppy, of the Jamaican 

 Oligocene, 7 but easily distinguished by the lack of circular riblets 

 upon the smaller half of the tube. It differs in form from all of 

 the smooth species of the same group. We have examined a great 

 many specimens. 



This is Gadus dominguensis of Gabb's paper ; not of d'Orbigny. 



Cadulus elegantissimus n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 28, 29, 30. 



Shell similar to the preceding, but larger, much more elongated. 

 Tube compressed vertically, very obliquely but indistinctly striated, 

 glossy. Greatest diameter close to the aperture ; contraction rather 

 slight. Aperture oval ; anal orifice oval, nearly circular. 



Length 11*75 mm.; greatest antero-posterior diameter of tube 

 065 mm. 



A smaller specimen measures, length 8*75, greatest antero-poste- 

 rior diam. 07 mm. 



Two perfect specimens and several broken ones were included by 

 Gabb in his lot of " Gadus dominguensis" It is excessively slen- 

 der, quite arcuate, and decidedly longer and larger than G. denta- 

 linus Guppy. The measurements are from the largest of the un- 

 broken shells. Fragments indicate that somewhat larger individuals 

 occur. 



Cadulus depressicollis n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 25, 26, 27. 



Shell long and slender, arcuate, much compressed between the 

 concave and convex sides throughout. Regularly and slowly en- 

 larging from the apex nearly to the aperture, then noticeably con- 

 tracted on all sides ; on the middle of the convex side having a 

 distinctly depressed, concave area about one-third the width of the 

 shell, and extending from the peristome backward a distance about 

 equal to the greatest diameter of the aperture; surface smooth and 

 glossy. Aperture oblong ; apex oblong, simple, with subcircular 

 orifice. 



Length 11*75 mm.; greatest diam. of tube 1*63, least diam. at 

 same point 1*25 mm. ; aperture, greatest diam. 1*06, least 0*8 mm. 



This was one of the four species discriminated, upon separating 

 Gabb's tray of Gadus dominguensis into its elementary constituents. 

 With Cadulus dentalinus Guppy, C. dominguensis d'Orb., and the 

 various forms associated with it, C. depressicollis has no close rela- 

 tionship. It is slender for a Cadulus, and remarkable for the 



'Manual of Conchology, XVII, PI. 36, figs. 1, 2. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



decidedly concave area on the flattened surface adjacent to the lip 

 on the convex side. 



Cadulus colobus n. sp. PI. XI, figs. 17, 18, 19, 20. 



Shell small, thin, moderately curved, rather short and stout, but 

 slightly swollen. Greatest girth at about the posterior third of the 

 length of the tube, slowly tapering to the rather large apex, the 

 anterior contraction equally gradual. Posteriorly the tube is 

 strongly compressed vertically, but at the "equator" and aperture 

 it is nearly circular in section ; surface polished. Aperture circu- 

 lar, not oblique. Apical orifice transversely oval. 



Length 2 - 95 mm. ; diameter at " equator," antero-posterior 0658, 

 lateral 0"688 mm. ; diam. at apex, antero-posterior 0.24, lateral 0.33 

 mm. ; diam. of aperture 0'55 x 058 mm. 



C. colobus is a much smaller and more " stumpy" species than 

 C. parianus Guppy of the Trinidad Oligocene. It is very unlike 

 C. dentalinus, elegantissimus or depressieollis. It was found with 

 Gabb's lot of " Gadus doming uensis." 



VERMES — SERPULID^E. 



" Dentalium rudis " Gabb. PI. X, figs. 4, 8. 



? Dentalium rudis Gabb, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. (n. ser.), xv, p. 244 



(1873). 



The fossils referred doubtfully to Dentalium under the above 

 name are unquestionably the tubes of a worm of the family Serpu- 

 lidoz. The fragments indicate an almost straight, tapering tube 

 with no trace of lateral attachment to other bodies. It is thick and 

 seems to consist of three layers of different structure or composition. 

 Externally there are eight rude, strongly convex longitudinal ridges 

 separated by narrow grooves, and rendered irregular by rather 

 numerous impressed lines running circularly around the tube, and 

 occasional constrictions also irregular in occurrence. The ribs run 

 almost straight, on some of the fragments, slowly spiral on others, 

 the torsion being opposite in direction to that of the thread of an 

 ordinary screw. The largest fragment measures, length 22, diam. 

 at large end 7, at smaller end 5 mm. 



The measurement given by Gabb was from a number of fragments 

 from several individuals fitted together according to the taper (as 

 in fig. 4), and as the latter seems rather regular, his result is proba- 

 bly not far from the truth. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



In the present condition of the literature upon tubicolous worms, 

 it is impossible for us to determine the generic position of these 

 remains, but we take them to be something of the nature of Ditrupa, 

 Hamulus or Pyrgopolon ; the massive, sculptured tube being not 

 unlike the Cretaceous groups mentioned. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES. 



Plate X. 



(All figures natural size). 



Figs. 1, 2, 3. Dentalium dissimile var. ponderosum Gabb. 

 Fig. 4. "Dentalium rudis " Gabb. Fragments of three individ- 

 uals. 

 Fig. 5. Dentalium Tryoni.n. sp. 

 Figs. 6, 7. Dentalium Gabbi u. sp. 

 Fig. 8. " Dentalium rudis " Gabb. Fragment. 

 Fig. 9. Dentalium Tryoni n. sp. 

 Figs. 10, 12. Dentalium callioglyptum n. sp. 

 Fig. 11. Dentalium cossmannianum n. sp. 

 Fig. 13. Dentalium Gabbi n. sp. 



Plate XL 



2. Dentalium Gabbi n. sp. Enlarged view of the apex. 

 Dentalium dissimile Guppy. Enlarged view of anterior 

 portion. 



Dentalium dissimile Guppy. Enlarged view of posterior 

 end. 



Dentalium dissimile Guppy. Enlarged view of apex. 

 Dentalium pyrum n. sp. Enlarged view of aperture. 

 Dentalium pyrum n. sp. Ventral aspect, enlarged. 

 Dentalium haytense Gabb. Aperture, enlarged. 

 Dentalium haytense Gabb. Lateral aspect, enlarged. 

 Dentalium Cossmannianum n. sp. Lateral aspect of 

 anterior portion. 



Dentalium Cossmannianum n. sp. Section, enlarged. 

 Dentalium precursor n. sp. Aperture, enlarged. 

 Dentalium prozcursor n. sp. Lateral aspect, enlarged. 

 Dentalium prozcursor n. sp. Dorsal aspect, enlarged. 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Figs. 15, 16. Dentalium dissimile var. ponderosum Gabb. Two 

 sections of one individual (PI. X, fig. 2) enlarged. 



Fig. 17. Cadulus colobus n. sp. Dorsal aspect, much enlarged. 



Fig. 18. Cadulus colobus n. sp. Aperture. 



Fig. 19. Cadulus colobus n. sp. Lateral aspect. 



Fig. 20. Cadulus colobus n. sp. Anal orifice. 



Fig. 21. Dentalium callioglyptum n. sp. Sculpture, much enlarged. 



Fig. 22. Dentalium Tryoni n. sp. Sculpture, much enlarged. 



Figs. 23, 24. Cadulus phenax n. sp. Lateral aspect. 



Fig. 25. Cadulus depressicollis n. sp. Outlines of aperture and 

 " equator." 



Fig. 26. Cadulus depressicollis n. sp. Lateral aspect. 



Fig. 27. Cadulus depressicollis n. sp. Ventral aspect. 



Fig. 28. Cadulus elegantissimus n. sp. Lateral aspect. 



Fig. 29. Cadulus elegantissimus n. sp. Outline of aperture. 



Fig. 30. Cadulus elegantissimus n. sp. Lateral aspect. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



NEW BRAZILIAN STREPTAXIDJE. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



In the course of identifying Brazilian Streptaxidce some time ago, 

 my attention was called to the fact that in the collection of the Acad- 

 emy there were several different and very distinct species labelled 

 " Streptaxis candidus Spix," mainly in the " Robert Swift " and "A. 

 D. Brown " collections. I was thus induced to reexamine the large 

 species of the group Artemon, to which these forms belong, and to 

 investigate their characters and literature. 



Tryon 1 enumerates the following species: S. candidus Spix (in- 

 cluding S. Spixianus Pfr.), S. intermedins Alb., S. regius Lobbecke, 

 S. wagneri Pfr., S. Rollandi Bern., S. Paivanus, conoideus, costulosus 

 and cypsele Pfr., S. apertus and depressus Martens. 



S. regius, Rollandi and cypsele I have not seen. The identity of 

 ■S. candidus Spix with S. Spixianus Pfr. is very uncertain. There is 

 nothing in the collection of the Academy altogether fulfilling the 

 requirements of the Spix-Wagner description, which indicates a 

 broadly umbilicated shell, of 25 mm. diam. and half that height. 

 The larger size of Pfeiffer's shell is of course not significant, for most 

 of these species periodically form expanded lips, which, with further 

 growth, remain visible, varix-like, on the base of the shell; so that 

 the size of apparently mature examples is not a safe specific crite- 

 rion. 



The following forms seem to be new : — 



S. helios n. sp. 



Shell depressed, with low-conoid spire, umbilicate, the umbilicus 

 deep and somewhat funnel-shaped, one-fifth the diameter of shell ; 

 rather thin and not very stixmg, buff tinted ; the surface with varn- 

 ish-like gloss, very smooth, with only a faint puckering below the 

 suture representing the costulation of the allied species. Apex 

 minute, smooth ; whorls fully 6£, moderately convex, at first slowly, 

 theu more rapidly increasing, the last decidedly wider than the 

 penultimate (viewed from above), well rounded at the periphery, 

 convex beneath, very obtusely subangular around the umbilicus. 



J Manual of Conchology, (2), I, pp. 61-63. 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897* 



Aperture oblique, roundly cresceutic, the width hardly exceeding 

 the height ; peristome thin, but very slightly expanded below, the 

 columellar margin expanded, slightly recurved, but little impinging 

 upon the umbilicus; 



Alt. 15, greater diam. 24, lesser 21*7 mm.; width of aperture 11, 

 height 11 mm. 



Brazil. 



Smoother above than any of the other large species. Perhaps 

 Pfeiffer's "Streptazis Candida var.," Chemnitz, edit. 2, Helix, PI. 103, 

 f. 29, 30, is this species ; but in fig. 29 the basal lip is less deeply 

 rounded than in typical helios. 



S. tumulus n. sp. 



Shell subglobose-depressed, umbilicate, the umbilicus deeply pen- 

 etrating, cylindrical or well-like, one-seventh the diameter of shell ; 

 solid; white or yellowish with brilliant gloss, the upper surface 

 sculptured with smooth, regular, slightly arcuate, rounded costulse, 

 wider than their intervals, and on the last whorl about 2? in the 

 space of a millimeter; becoming obsolete at the periphery, the base 

 being smooth with the luster of varnish. Spire low dome-shaped, 

 the earlier whorls slightly conic. Whorls 7, very slowly increasing, 

 the last scarcely wider than the penultimate (viewed from above),, 

 rounded at periphery and convex beneath, showing two slight vari- 

 ceal ridges marking former peristome positions. Aperture oblique, 

 rotund-crescentic, mainly basal, but little wider than high ; peri- 

 stome not expanded above, becoming slightly so at base, and ex- 

 panded and slightly recurved at the columellar margin, where it is 

 dilated somewhat and impinges upon the umbilicus. 



Alt. 18, greatest diam. 25, lesser 23 mm. ; width of aperture 12, 

 height 1 T7 mm. 



Brazil. 



The outlines of the spire are more convex than in S. spixiarais 

 Pfr., the whorls more compactly coiled, the last conspicuously nar- 

 rower. The aperture is rounder and more basal, and the umbilicus 

 decidedly smaller. Compared with S. regius Lobbecke, this species 

 is less elevated with decidedly narrow umbilicus. 



S. capillosus n. sp. 



Shell closely resembling S. Spixianus Pfr. in general contour, 

 openly umbilicate, the umbilicus from one-sixth to one-fifth the 

 diam. of shell ; moderately solid ; grayish-white or yellowish. Sur- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



face slightly shining, very finely and closely costulate-striate through- 

 out, the costulse clear-cut but minute, about 5 in the space of a 

 millimeter, on the last whorl ; becoming lower and fainter on the 

 base. Whorls 6 to 6J, convex, at first slowly, then more rapidly 

 increasing, the last decidedly wider than the penultimate, rounded 

 at the periphery, obtusely angular around the somewhat funnel- 

 shaped umbilicus. Aperture rounded lunate, oblique ; outer and 

 basal margins of peristome slightly expanded, columellar margin 

 dilated above ; basal margin slightly bent forward in the middle. 



Alt. 13 - 5, greater diam. 21, lesser 18*3 mm.; width of aperture 

 11, height 9"5 mm. 



Alt. 12*5, greater diam. 20'5 mm. 



Province of Bahia, Brazil. 



Resembles S. Spixianus in form, but the series of a half dozen spe-' 

 cimens before me differs constantly from that species in the smaller 

 size of the shells and the extremely fine striation. 



S. decussatus n. sp. 



Shell depressed -turbinate, narrowly umbilicate, the umbilicus deep 

 and well-like, one-ninth or one-tenth the diam. of shell ; moderately 

 solid ; pale yellowish. Surface glossy, closely and finely costulate 

 above, the costulre wider than the intervals, about three in the space 

 of a millimeter, and decussated by numerous fine spirals, which cut 

 or indent them but do not appear in the intervening grooves ; the 

 base similarly but less strongly costulate. Spire low conoid, with 

 the lateral outlines but slightly convex, apical whorls costulate; 

 whorls 6J, at first slowly, then more rapidly widening, the last 

 bluntly but conspicuously angular at the periphery, convex beneath, 

 angular around the umbilicus. Aperture rhombic, somewhat ob- 

 lique, angular at middle of outer margin and at junction of the 

 basal with the columellar margin; peristome unexpanded, becoming 

 slightly so below, the columellar margin vertical, dilated above, 

 impinging upon the umbilicus. 



Alt. 16, greater diam. 22, lesser 20 mm.; width of aperture 12, 

 height 11 mm. 



Brazil. 



Peculiar in the decussated sculpture and continuation of the cos- 

 tulation to the apex. The angular periphery and verge of the nar- 

 row umbilicus are also conspicuous features. 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



December 7. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Descriptions of two new forms of Perideris," by Henry A. 

 Pilsbry. 



"Synopsis of the recent Psammobiidse of North America," by 

 W. H. Dall. 



' The Gerrhonotus of the San Lucan Fauna of Lower California 

 with diagnoses of other West American Species," by John Van 

 Den burgh. 



" The Petrifaction of Bones," by E. Goldsmith. 



December 14. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty-four persons present. 



December 21. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Forty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled "Anatomical Notes on certain Western 

 American Helices," by Henry A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta, was 

 presented for publication. 



The death of the Rev. Samuel Haughton of Dublin, Ireland, a 

 Correspondent, was announced. 



Additional Note on the Gastropod Genus Tatea, Tenison- Woods. 

 — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry offered the following remarks: Owing to 

 the incompleteness of our series of the " Proceedings of the Royal 

 Society of Tasmania," and to the omission of an entry in the "Zoo- 

 logical Record," an important note on Tatea, 1 by a corresponding 

 member of this Academy, was overlooked by me in dealing with 

 this genus in these Proceedings, p. 360. 



Professor Tate correctly refers Dardania Hutton, 1882, to Eaton- 

 iella, following Hutton ; 2 and he further includes Tatea in Eaton- 



1 On the classificatory position and synonyms of Eatoniella rufilabris, by 

 Professor Ralph Tate, F. L. S., F. G. S. 



2 Proc. Linn. Soc. N. S. Wales, IX, 1885, p. 940. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



iella. This union I have proven to be inadmissible on the ground 

 of the totally different dentition of the radula. 



Professor Tate's note, therefore, does not in the least affect the 

 conclusions reached in ray paper, viz., that Tatea is a valid genus 

 of Amnicolidce ; that it is not at all closely related to the Bissoini- 

 nce; and that it is not equivalent to the genus Eatoniella. 



It only remains to add that the paper of my esteemed colleague 

 may be consulted with advantage for the full specific synonymy, 

 and for details of the external anatomy of Tatea not given in my 

 own communication. 



December 28. 



General Isaac J. Wistar in the Chair. 



Thirty- six persons present. 



A paper entitled " Odonata (Dragonflies) from the Indian Ocean 

 and from Kashmir collected by Dr. W. L. Abbott," by Plrilip P. 

 Calvert, was presented for publication. 



The following was offered from the Anthropological Section : — 

 The Anthropological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 views with the deepest regret the untimely death of its late able 

 and esteemed Director, Dr. Harrison Allen, to whose earnest 

 efforts the organization and subsequent success of the Section were 

 mainly due and who served it as Director from its first meeting 

 until his decease. Dr. Allen's broad interest in the science of 

 anthropology in general and his valuable series of studies in the 

 characteristics of huraan crania in particular, were indicated by 

 numerous communications to the Section, of which one, on a new 

 method of estimating the comparative measurements of skulls, 

 given in October, 1897, was probably his last communication before 

 any scientific body. The high value and wide diversity of his 

 scientific work, the originality and suggestiveness of many of his 

 views and the deep earnestness of his devotion to scientific research 

 render his death a serious loss to the world of science as a whole, 

 and in particular to the institutions with which he was intimately 

 connected. By the Anthropological Section it is felt to be a loss 

 which cannot easily be repaired. 



The communication above alluded to has been reported as 

 follows : — 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Comparative Measurements of Skulls. — At the meeting of the 

 Anthropological Section of the Academy, held October 8, 1897, 

 Dr. Harrison Allen presented a number of Hawaiian skulls, 

 placed in his hands by Dr. Whitney, who had enjoyed exceptional 

 opportunities for their collection. It had been found, he said, that 

 the Hawaiian people of high caste selected different burial places 

 from those of low caste, the former choosing caves as places of 

 sepulture, the latter interring their dead on the sea coast. This 

 custom renders it easy to divide the skulls into two classes, whose 

 distinction is also indicated in their characteristics. He had found, 

 on comparison of these classes of skulls, that they presented well- 

 marked distinctions, not due to any difference of race, but simply to 

 different habits and conditions. The skulls of high caste origin 

 were found to have characters due, in his opinion, to higher intelli- 

 gence and more luxurious habits of living than those belonging to 

 the lower caste, all the differences observed being probably referable 

 to these causes. 



In comparing these characters he adopted a special method, con- 

 stituting a modification of the ordinary method. Instead of indi- 

 cating variations by curves, he arranged the numbers representing 

 the measurements of significant features in the series of skulls, in 

 steps, or terraces, each step indicating by its width the degree of 

 preponderance of its corresponding number. Omissions in the 

 series of numbers were likewise indicated. He considered this 

 method superior to that of curves, as greatly simplifying the com- 

 parisons of a series of numbers, and enabling conclusions to be 

 readily aivd quickly drawn. 



This communication possesses a special value in its being the last 

 made by Dr. Allen, whose death took place shortly after its deliv- 

 ery. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



NOTES ON LIVING AND EXTINCT SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN 



BOVIDJE. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Through the courtesy of his friend Stewart Culin,of the Depart- 

 ment of Archeology and Paleontology, University of Pennsylvania, 

 the author has been permitted to examine a collection of mammal- 

 ian fossils forwarded from Alaska to the University. 



These fossils were collected "on the tundra, back of Point Barrow," 

 a locality from which no mammalian fossils appear to have been 

 previously recorded, and situated 500 miles farther north than the 

 celebrated Elephant Point fossil beds on the shores of Eschscholtz 

 Bay. 



They comprise numerous parts of the skeletons of Elephas, to- 

 gether with the skulls of three individuals of the genus Bison, all in 

 an unusually good state of preservation. In identifying these for 

 Mr. Culin it was found necessary to make comparisons with the 

 type specimens of Bison in the Museum of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. The results of this study appear to war- 

 rant publication, affecting as they do the question of the relation- 

 ships of Bison latijrons (Harlan), B. antiquus Leidy, B. alleni 

 Marsh and B. erampianus (Cope). 



The two smaller specimens, Nos. 13,752, 13,753 of the University 

 Museum Catalogue, undoubtedly represent the smaller extinct bison 

 of N. America, named in 1854 by Richardson, Bison crassicomis, 

 from specimens taken at Eschscholtz Bay, Alaska. The smaller of 

 these two specimens, No. 13,752, is from an adult animal, probably 

 a male, of four or five years. The fronto-parietal and occipital por- 

 tions of the skull from the posterior line of the orbits to the basi- 

 occipital inclusive, are intact, as also the horn-cores. The distance 

 from tip to tip of horn-cores is 812 millimeters. The frontal breadth 

 between the bases of horn-cores is 318 mm. Specimen No. 13,753 

 is a skull in much the same condition as the preceding, excepting 

 the horn-cores, whose terminal thirds have been destroyed. It be- 

 longs to an older animal than No. 13,752, the frontal breadth be- 

 tween the bases of horn-cores being about the same as in that speci- 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



men but the interorbital width is 325 mm. greater. The horns of 

 both these specimens agree closely in size, curvature and relative 

 dimensions with the larger horn-core and attached frontal bone 

 forming the type of Leidy's Bison antiquus from Big Bone Lick, 

 Kentucky. 



Dr. J. A. Allen, in his Memoir of the American Bisons, 1 not only 

 shows the specific differences of the smaller extinct bison of America 

 from the living animal, but establishes the priority of Leidy's name 

 antiquus over Richardson's crassicornis, and shows that both these 

 names were, with little doubt, applied to the same species. In the 

 Museum of the Academy is the most complete cranium of fossil 

 American bison 2 yet recorded (PI. XII, fig. 2). It was sent to Dr. 

 Leidy by Messrs. Calvin and Wilfred Brown, who discovered it in 

 the Pilarcitos Valley near San Francisco, Cal. It is classed by 

 Leidy under latifrons, to which he subsequently referred his antiquus 

 specimens. Its relations to the existing bison are much closer, how- 

 ever, than to Leidy's type of antiquus. A comparison of the type 

 of antiquus from Big Bone Lick with the newly acquired specimens 

 from Alaska, confirms the views of Dr. Allen and Prof. E. D. Cope, s 

 viz., that we have in B. antiquus a near prototype of the existing 

 bison. In antiquus the stout, subcircular horn-cores have first a 

 lateral growth at right angles to the longitudinal axis of the skull 

 (or directed slightly backward) and on a level with (or slightly be- 

 low) the frontal plane, rather abruptly curving upward along their 

 distal third within a plane intersecting the frontals at right angles, 

 or at an angle from 5 to 15 degrees posterior thereto. In Bison bi- 

 son typical specimens show the following characteristic differences 

 from B. antiquus: a, the size of the cranium in largest known ex- 

 amples is 10 to 15 percent, less; b, the relative length of the horn- 

 cores to the breadth of frontals between the bases of horn-cores is 5 

 to 10 per cent, less; c, a straight line drawn from the tip of horn- 

 core across the median superior base of same in B. bison will, if con- 

 tinued, intersect the orbits ; in B. antiquus, a line similarly drawn 

 intersects the base of opposing horn-core — in other words, the chord 

 of the smallest arc in horn-cores of B. bison is at about an angle of 

 45° to the longitudinal axis of the skull, while in B. antiquus the 

 same chord is more or less nearly at right angles (90°) to that axis ; 



1 Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., IV, 1876. 



2 Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr., I, p. 253, pi. 28, figs. 4 and 5. 



3 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., IX, p. 457. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



d, the vertical and longitudinal (transverse) diameters of the horn- 

 cores of B. bison, measured at one-third of the distance of whole 

 length of core from base of same, are about equal, and the superior 

 (concave) surface of core well rounded, in B. antiquus the longitudi- 

 nal diameter is much the greater, and the superior (concave) sur- 

 face of core more or less flattened. 4 



The third, and by far the most interesting, of all the Alaskan 

 specimens loaned by Mr. Culin, is a large cranium of a long horned 

 fossil bison (No. 13,754), in which the frontal and occipital por- 

 tions, with their horn-cores, are intact. The upper margins of the 

 orbits and the basal suture of the nasals are also present. The 

 specimen is evidently of a fully adult male animal, and is much the 

 best preserved and strongly fossilized example of bison that has 

 come to hand. In the latter respect it is in strong contrast to the 

 other bison specimens which accompanied it from Alaska, or, in 

 fact, with any in the entire series now at the Academy. As com- 

 pared with the antiquus skull from Alaska already mentioned, it is 

 more thoroughly mineralized, and shows but slight traces of the 

 water-worn appearance so evident in the latter. Its specific gravity 

 is 1 J to If times that of the antiquus specimens. Whether they 

 all came from the same site and geological horizon we have no- 

 source of information, but the comparatively recent characters of 

 the antiquus skulls, their color and frangibility, bespeak a much 

 later age and indicate a surface exposure to the elements, so that 

 they do not greatly differ in character from the weathered skulls of 

 recent Musk Ox sent to the University from Alaska in the same 

 shipment. The large-horned specimen, which may, for the present, 

 be referred to as number 13,754, shows, in the size and curvature of 

 its horns, a very different type of bison from either B. bison or B. 

 antiquus, in these and other respects indicating their closer relation- 



4 In the type of antiquus this flattening is very marked, as also in the Alas- 

 kan specimens. In Leidy's California specimen the flattening is very slight, 

 and in cross section the horn differs very little from B. bison. Indeed, this 

 specimen in this regard is so different from the type of antiquus and from all 

 the antiquus specimens from Alaska as to raise the question of their specific 

 identity. 



Just before this article went to the printer, the author consulted a valu- 

 able paper in the Kansas University Quarterly for July, 1897, on the osteol- 

 ogy of B. antiquus, by Alban Stewart. While Mr. Stewart unfortunately 

 makes no comparisons between his fine skull of antiquus and other American 

 fossil species, and omits to mention many characters which are essential 

 in such comparisons, his paper brings out some strong distinctions between 

 typical antiquus and B. bison hitherto only conjectured because of the frag- 

 mentary state of all other specimens. 

 32 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



ship to the huge-horned B. latifrons of Harlan, the type of which is 

 in the Museum of the Academy. It is, however, a much smaller- 

 horned species, and the horn-cores are much more curved and flat- 

 tened than in latifrons. The difference in the size of the cranium 

 in the two species is not great, the frontal breadth being the 

 same, but the greater breadth and massive development of the occi- 

 pital region in latifrons is very noticeable, a difference necessitated 

 by the great relative weight of the horns and the consequent de- 

 velopment of the cervical muscles and their attachments at the base 

 of the cranium. The species to which No. 13,754 shows closest rela- 

 tions is B. crampianus of Cope, recently described, 5 from the Pleis- 

 tocene of Kansas, the type of which is also in the Museum of the 

 Academy. 



The horn-core and rostral portion of cranium which represent 

 this species are intermediate in size and characters between latifrons 

 and No 13,754. 



As pointed out by Prof. Cope, the characters separating latifrons 

 from crampianus, based solely on the horn-cores, are, without much 

 doubt, specific, the difference in size alone amounting to 40 per cent., 

 while in curvature and the relative dimensions of cross section the 

 distinctions are equally pronounced. 



It therefore remains to consider the status of the Alaskan speci- 

 men with regard to crampianus. Before doing so, however, the 

 question of sexual differences in the development of the horn-cores 

 of the genus Bos and Bison should be considered. Dr. Leidy, in 

 his study of the extinct bisons, evidently believed, or at least thought 

 it possible, that sexual variations in size of horn-cores of the extinct 

 bisons might account for some of the so-called species described by 

 himself and others, and, subsequent to describing antiquus as a dis- 

 tinct species, he made it a synonym of latifrons ! The extreme im- 

 probability of this conjecture is made evident by*Dr. Allen in his 

 monograph. It is impossible to determine the sex of fossil speci- 

 mens, except where they are perfect enough and numerous enough 

 to exhibit the characters which determine this in nearly related liv- 

 ing species. The number of specimens of fossil bisons is yet too 

 small and their condition too fragmentary to arrive at a very satis- 

 factory answer to this question. So far as it goes, however, it is 

 pertinent to show the extent of difference in the size and shape of 



6 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., IV, p. 456, pi. XXII : (= B. all mi Marsh). 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



horns between males and females in living species of the genera Bos 

 and Bison. A comparison of males and females in old world species 

 of Bos, as B. indicus, B. caffer and B. grunniens, not only confirms 

 the diagnosis of the bovine section of the Bovidce made by Flower 

 and Lydekker : 6 " horns of nearly equal size in both sexes," but 

 shows also the relative position of the horns to the skull and their 

 curvature is subject to no specific sexual variations. In the existing 

 American Bison, to which all the fossil remains of Nearctic species 

 appear more closely related than to the Palearctic species, we have 

 excellent opportunities to determine the sexual characters of the 

 horns from very large suites of specimens in several of our museums 

 as well as among herds of the living animals. Of the latter the 

 author has examined the herd of the Philadelphia Zoological Society, 

 in which about twenty individuals, including six adult females, are 

 represented. Without exception, these females prove that the only 

 difference between male and female bison horns is in the smaller 

 basal calibre of the latter. With respect to curvature and angle of 

 growth from the skull they are singularly like the males in the same 

 herd. With respect to length, the maximum female horn fully 

 equalled the longest of any male horn examined, in this respect 

 showing a length relative to the size of body about 20 per cent, 

 greater than in the male. 7 With respect to the shape of the horn- 

 cores in the two sexes, those of the female are more cylindrical 

 throughout, almost entirely lacking the slightly flattened contour 

 exhibited by the superior surface of male horn-cores. 



It would seem fair to assume, therefore, where there is no evidence 

 to the contrary, that the extinct species of Bos and Bison were anal- 

 ogous to our existing forms in respect to the slight differences be- 

 tween the horns of males and females of the same species, and that 

 marked differences in size and diametric proportions of the adult 

 horn-cores, making due allowance for the more slender and cylin- 

 drical character of the female horn, are diagnostic specific charac- 

 ters. On this basis we will return to a comparison of the horn-cores 

 of the Alaskan skull, No. 13,754, with Cope's type of B. crampianus. 

 The basal processes of the left horn-core of crampianus are wholly 

 wanting, but the contour lines and sulcations of the original parts 

 indicate that but a small portion of the base of the core is missing. 



6 Mam. Liv. and Extinct, 1891, p. 360. 



7 The relative length of sheath to core is greater in females than in males, 

 so that the cores of females average shorter than males of same age. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



A conservative estimate of the original length of the horn-core, add- 

 ing two inches (50 mm.) to the broken apical portion and two more 

 for the basal part, makes it 800 mm. when measured along its pos- 

 terior arc on a plane with the occiput ; the same measurement in No. 

 13,754 is only 520 mm. The girth of core of crampianus measured half 

 way from base to tip, where the specimen is best preserved, is 305 

 mm., while that of No. 13,754 is 241 mm. These dimensions show that 

 in crampianus we have a species bearing horns more than i heavier 

 and longer than the large-horned Alaskan animal, and in this respect 

 showing a difference out of all proportion to the greatest known dif- 

 ference shown by adult males and females of the same species in exist- 

 ing bisons. Examining next the shape of the horns in the specimens 

 under consideration we note a striking difference, quite sufficient 

 when present in living species, to denote specific values. The greatest 

 diameter of the horn-core of cramp ianus, measured at a point half way 

 between base and tip, is 105 mm., the least diameter 92 mm., the first 

 of these measurements being taken along a line parallel to the facial 

 plane and the second at right angles thereto. In No. 13,754 these 

 measurements are respectively 88 mm. and 67 mm., showing the 

 greater superior flatness of the horns of the Alaskan animal. A 

 median cross-section of the core of crampianus, in the words of it& 

 describer, " is a triangle, with a broadly rounded apex." It is more 

 properly a truncated oval or ellipse, the flattened or hollowed 

 truncate portion corresponding with the posterior face of the core. 

 In No. 13,754 the same section presents a rounded hemispheric out- 

 line, the flat side of which is on a line with the facial plane and 

 forms the superior anterior face of the core, and the truncated side 

 seen in crampianus, is replaced by a convex, rounded curve, falling 

 posteriorly into a. larger one and terminating anteriorly quite 

 abruptly along the superior posterior edge, which forms a distinct 

 ridge at this part along the distal half of core. 



The relations of No. 13,754 to crampianus being now made appar- 

 ent, it should be stated that the author considers the latter a syno- 

 nym of B. alleni Marsh, briefly described in the American Journal 

 of Science, 8 from a single horn core " from the lower Pliocene of 

 Kansas." The dimensions and curvature of this specimen, together 

 with the locality and geologic stratum from which it was taken, 

 duplicate too closely the characters and history of the crampianus 

 type to warrant any other conclusion, and the foregoing remarks 



8 Am. Jour. Sci., 1877, No. LXXXI, p. 252, Appx. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



showing the relations of crampianus to No. lo,754 will, of course, 

 equally apply to B. alleni. The use of crampianus in the ahove 

 comparisons was necessitated by the writer's inability to procure the 

 type of alleni. 



Prof. Marsh also described on the same page of the American 

 Journal two horn-cores of another and smaller and straighter-horned 

 bison from the lower Pliocene of Nebraska which he named Bison 

 ferox. Its specific distinction from B. alleni is, perhaps, well-founded 

 (although it is not enough smaller than that species not to be its 

 female), because of the straightness of its horns. In this respect 

 and in its much greater size it is, without a doubt, a different species 

 from that represented by the large Alaskan specimen No. 13,754. 

 Both ferox and alleni, of course, are not comparable to latifrons, and 

 both are as equally removed from antiquus (= erassicornis) as cram- 

 pianus has been shown to be. 



Before making a final decision as to the status of this large Alas- 

 kan specimen it remains to consider some important questions of 

 synonymy and identity arising from the original description and 

 figures of erassicornis. 



Richardson's species erassicornis, as originally described in the 

 " Zoology of the Voyage of the Herald," is founded primarily on 

 the skull formerly secured by Captain Beechey at Eschscholtz Bay 

 and figured by Buckland in the appendix to Beechey's Voyage. 

 This skull is figured by Richardson on Plate IX of his work, no 

 other reference being given in the headline of his article on this 

 species (p. 40). On page 42 he enumerates a " No. 91," stating : 

 " This number indicates the large horn-core, of which a side view 

 on the facial aspect is given in Plate XIII, fig. 1, and a view of the 

 coronal aspect in fig. 2, both of the natural size." On the next 

 page he refers to this specimen, stating, after a comparison with 

 other remains from Alaska and with Bos primigenius — " it has 

 therefore been considered a horn-core of an older and probably a 

 male individual of the race that produced the skull marked No. 

 1 A, and to which, from the thickness of its horns, I have given the 

 distinctive epithet of erassicornis." 



Leidy, Allen and others have already almost conclusively shown 

 that erassicornis, based on the Beechey specimen as a type, is a syn- 

 onym which must yield priority of publication to antiquus of Leidy. 



The fine series of specimens of fossil bison now in the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia confirms this conclusion. But 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



a comparison of the figures of the large horn-cores on Plate XIII of 

 Richardson's work, which he also refers to crassicomis, shows unmis- 

 takable similarity to the horn-cores of the large-horned Alaskan 

 specimen from the University of Pennsylvania, No. 13,754. Not 

 only is the shape and curvature of these horn-cores, as figured by 

 Richardson, remarkably similar to those of No. 13,754, but the 

 measurements of the latter coincide almost exactly with those given 

 for the former. Indeed it would be almost impossible in a series of 

 hundreds of such skulls to find two individuals so nearly alike. 



As has already been pointed out, we cannot account for the dif- 

 ference between Richardson's type skull of crassicomis and the large 

 horn-cores which he attributes to a male of the same species, on the 

 ground of sex. There is little doubt that the Beechey type specimen 

 of crassicomis is of a male, and that the small, rounded horn-core, 

 which Richardson figured on Plate XIII in contrast with the large 

 ones under the name " B. priscus," is of a female antiquus (—crass- 

 icomis). An exactly similar specimen of same size and curvature 

 with its accompanying sheath is in the collection of the Academy, 

 being presented by Dr. B. Sharp, who secured it at Elephant Point, 

 Kotzebue Sound, Alaska. It is also worthy of mention that these 

 supposed female horns show a close analogy in their slenderness, 

 length and deep sulcation of cores as compared with that of the 

 supposed male specimens of " crassicomis " from the same locality, 

 to the same characters in B. bison. 



From the foregoing we may arrive at the following conclusions : 

 a. B. crassicomis, as described and figured by Richardson, is a com- 

 posite species ; b. The name crassicomis was " first applied " and 

 "primarily related" to a type specimen "No. 1 A," PI. IX, $ , 

 which has been determined to be specifically the same as the type 

 of an earlier named species, B. antiquus, of which, therefore, B. 

 crassicomis becomes a synonym ; c. Therefore, Canon XXVIII, and 

 "affirmation (f)," A. O. U. Code, the name crassicomis cannot ap- 

 ply to the other and large-horned species enumerated under that 

 name by Richardson ; d. It having been demonstrated that this 

 large-horned species is identical with the Alaskan specimen, No. 

 13,754, which differs in many essential characters from any bison 

 yet named, therefore it is proposed to designate this species as: 



Bison alaskensis sp. now Great Alaskan Bison. PI. XII, figs. 3 and 6. 



Type from "Tundra back of Point Barrow, Alaska." Ad. £ , 

 No. 13,754, Col. of Mus. of Sci. and Art, Univ. of Penna. Basal 

 part of cranium with attached horn-cores in good condition. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Syn. Bison crassicornis Richardson, Zool. Voy. Herald, 1854, pp. 

 42, 43, PI. XIII, figs. 1 and 2 (including solely the references to 

 large $ horn-core " No. 91 "). 



General characters. — Size intermediate between B. antiquus and 

 B. alleni; frontal breadth equalling that of B. latifrons, the occi- 

 pital development much weaker. Horn-cores strongly curved up- 

 ward and forward, their tips reaching behind the plane of the occi- 

 put ; greatly flattened and smooth superiorly, broadly rounded and 

 deeply furrowed interiorly, showing a rounded hemispheric outline 

 in median cross-section as contrasted with type of crampianus (= 

 alleni). Frontal and occipital characters as in B. bison and its 

 other extinct allies, when contrasted with Old World forms. Ratio 

 of length of single horn-core to breadth of frontals between horn- 

 cores much smaller than in type of crampianus 9 (=alleni) and lati- 

 frons. Ratio of greatest median diameter of horn-core to the least 

 median diameter of same, much less than in any known American 

 species of bison. For more detailed comparative characters con- 

 sult the preceding pages of this paper. 



Measurements.'— Greatest extent of horn-cores, measured between 

 tips, 1,130 mm. ; chord of arc of left horn-core from tip to superior 

 base, 405 mm. ; shortest frontal width between basilar processes of 

 horn-cores, 465 mm. ; greatest interorbital width, 400 mm. ; length 

 from basal suture of nasals to posterior edge of occipital crest, meas- 

 ured along mesial frontal profile, 333 mm. ; greatest mastoid 

 breadth, 308 mm. ; vertical height of occiput, from lower border of 

 foramen magnum to highest point of occipital crest, 174 mm. ; great- 

 est width between the outer edges of the lateral wings of the con- 

 dyles, 162 mm.; girth of frontal shoulder of left horn-core, meas- 

 ured 20 mm. from basal border of core, 349 mm. ; greatest girth 

 of left horn-core, measured along basal border, 410 mm. ; girth of 

 left horn-core at a point 200 mm. from its inferior basal border, 

 241 mm.; greatest diameter of core at same point, 86 mm.; least 

 diameter of core at same point, 66 mm.; length of left horn-core meas- 

 ured along superior arc (adding 15 mm. for portion of tip worn ofl), 

 497 mm.; the same measured along inferior arc of same, 526 mm. 



Habitat and Geologic Position. — Northern Alaska (and British 

 America?) from Kotzebue Sound northward ; living in early Plis- 

 tocene time, anterior to but perhaps overlapping the existence of the 



9 Judging by the dimensions of the antorbital- section of the type of cram- 

 pianus, its cranium was about the same size as those of alaskensis and latlfrons. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



more southern B. antiquus, whose remains are found in the same 

 deposits along the southern range of alaskensis. 



Note on " Bison appalachicolus " Rhoads. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia for the year 1895, pages 246 to 248 inclusive, the writer 

 described the horn-core of a fossil bovine from a limestone cave in 

 Pennsylvania as a new species, under the above name. A more 

 critical examination of the type of appalachicolus suggests the fol- 

 lowing remarks: 



The portion of the frontal plate attached to horn-core presents us 

 with a sagittal suture showing that the forehead of this animal was 

 smooth and nearly level between the horn-cores, that the width of 

 the skull at this point was only 90 millimeters, and that there was a 

 well defined, low, osseous prominence along the sagittal suture. 

 These and other characters of the type bespeak a fully adult ani- 

 mal. A fragment originally associated with the type, from the 

 character of the matrix and its label, contains a nearly perfect cross- 

 section of the more distal portion of the same horn-core. At its 

 smaller end this piece of core measures transversely 48 by 40 mm. 

 It indicates a horn-conformation approaching more nearly to Ovibos 

 than Bison, in this respect verifying the supposed affinity of the 

 specimen to the musk ox rather than to the bison. The charac- 

 ters of the base of the horn-core, after careful comparison with cor- 

 responding parts in Ovibos and Bison, indicate it to belong to the 

 right side of the skull. This identification is also in the direction 

 of Ovibos, as it indicates that the horn had a forward drop like the 

 musk ox. Considered in this light, appalachicolus presents us with 

 a small, flat-browed type of ox, lacking the osseous frontal rugosi- 

 ties of Ovibos, with horns resembling in their shape the extinct 

 Ovibos cavifrons in being more rounded and slender at base than 0. 

 moschatus. It is much smaller than cavifrons and the drop of horns 

 very much less, in this respect being intermediate between cavifrons 

 and Bison antiquus. As originally pointed out, its relation to 0. 

 bombifrons is very remote, and its place in the bovine series' forms 

 an interesting link between Ovibos and Bison. It may stand more 

 properly in nomenclature as Ovibos (JBootherium f) appalachicolus. 



Notes on the Woodland Bison of Boreal America, with Description 



and Name. 



For many years the existence of a race of buffalo peculiar to the 

 wooded tracts lying between the Liard and Peace Rivers, Great 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



Slave Lake, and the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains in Atha- 

 basca, has been asserted by hunters and travellers in this portion of 

 the great northwest. Many have been the opinions of naturalists 

 as to the relations of this so-called " Wood Buffalo " to its congener 

 of the plains, the Bos bison of Linnaeus and the Bos americanus of 

 Gmelin and subsequent authors generally. Unfortunately the sub- 

 ject has, up to the present time, never got beyond the domain of 

 hearsay, theory and hunter's stories, because no undoubted specimen 

 of typical Wood Buffalo has been made a basis for the* critical de- 

 termination of its characters as compared with the buffalo of the 

 more southern plains and prairies. In searching among the litera- 

 ture touching upon the Wood Buffalo this radical deficiency became 

 more and more apparent, and it was with no small satisfaction that 

 the writer succeeded in discovering, through correspondence with 

 his friend, Professor J. Macoun, of the Canadian Geological Survey, 

 that a specimen of an adult male Wood Buffalo had recently been 

 added to their museum at Ottawa. The characters of this specimen 

 sufficiently confirm the more trustworthy statements of those who 

 have had a field acquaintance with the Wood Buffalo to show its 

 claim to recognition as a well defined race of Bison bison. Nor is 

 this to be wondered at when we consider the decidedly different en- 

 vironment and habits of this northern race, and from what we know 

 of other American mammals living in similar conditions, the differ- 

 entiation between the two had practically become a foregone conclu- 

 sion. 



Before giving a detailed description of the Wood Buffalo it will be 

 of use to the reader to know something of its literary history. 

 Among the earliest notices we have of the existence of the American 

 bison in the limited area now exclusively tenanted by the woodland 

 race was Mackenzie's narrative in his " Travels to the Polar Sea," 

 Vol. II, pages 147, 155, 156, 377, where he states that he found 

 them abundant at the headwaters of Peace River. Sir John Rich- 

 ardson, in 1829, made the following statement of the northern range 

 of the bison in his " Fauna Boreali Americana," page 279 : " Great 

 Slave Lake, in latitude 60°, was at oue time the northern boundary 

 of their range, but of late years, according to the testimony of the 

 natives, they have taken possession of the flat limestone district of 

 Slave Point on the north side of that lake, and have wandered to 

 the vicinity of Great Marten Lake, in latitude 63° or 64°." On 

 page 282 of the same work he thus briefly refers to the woodland 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



form: " The bison which frequent the woody parts of the country 

 form smaller herds than those which roam over the plains, but are 

 said to be individually of greater size." This is the first published 

 intimation known to the writer of a distinction between the two 

 forms. In Hind's " Narrative of the Canadian Exploring Expedi- 

 tions," published in 1860, the relations of the wood and plains buf- 

 faloes are quite fully considered but no conclusions arrived at, as the 

 author got nearly all his information from hearsay. He says : 

 " Many old hunters with whom I have conversed on this subject, 

 aver that the so-called Wood Buffalo is a distinct species, and al- 

 though they are not able to offer scientific proofs, yet the difference 

 in size, color, hair and horns are enumerated as the evidence upon 

 which they base their statement. * * * The skin of the so-called 

 Wood Buffalo is much larger than that of the common animal, the 

 hair is very short, mane or hair about the neck, short and soft, and 

 altogether destitute of curl, which is the common feature in the hair 

 or wool of the prairie animal. Two skins of the so-called Wood 

 Buffalo, which I saw at Selkirk Settlement, bore a very close resem- 

 blance to the skin of the Lithuanian Bison, judging from the speci- 

 mens of that species which I have since had an opportunity of see- 

 ing in the British Museum. The Wood Buffalo is stated to be very 

 scarce, and only found north of the Saskatchewan and on the flanks 

 of the Rocky Mountains. It never ventures into the open plains." 

 Dr. J. A. Allen, whose painstaking monograph of the American 

 bisons, 10 justly entitles him to speak authoritatively on the subject, 

 was unable to recognize the " Wood " or " Mountain " Buffalo as an 

 authentic variety or subspecies of B. bison, although his researches 

 brought the subject up to the year 1876. 



A short summary of his conclusions may be made as follows : a. 

 The Wood Buffalo as defined by Hind (1. c.) and the Mountain 

 Buffalo of the United States, referred to by hunters and travellers 

 in the Rocky Mountains, are probably identical in their so-called 

 diffeiences from the plains animal in larger size and darker, shorter 

 and softer pelage, b. The most trustworthy accounts of the Wood 

 and Mountain Buffaloes are so contradictory that it is almost impos- 

 sible to believe in its existence, c. There is ample scientific proof, 

 however, that the bisons formerly living in the high wooded por- 

 tions of the central Rocky Mountains averaged larger than those of 

 the plains, d. The difference in environment surrounding the 



i0 Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., IV, 1876, pp. 39 to 41. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



mountain and woodland animal, should it be proven that such en- 

 vironment was the chosen and constant habitat of this so-called 

 race, would tend to develop just the differences claimed to distin- 

 guish them. 



In 1885 Mr. E. T. Seton (now Ernest E. Thompson) read a paper 

 on "The Ruminants of the Northwest" before the Canadian Insti- 

 tute, Toronto. An extract from this paper relating to " The Wood 

 Buffalo" was published in 1886 in the Proceedings of the Institute, 

 pages 114 to 117. This paper adds somewhat to our previously 

 published knowledge of the animal in question, but has the same 

 defects which embarrassed the investigations of previous authors, 

 absolute lack of material for comparison. Mr. Seton mentioned 

 that both the Indians and a Mr. E. Mignault, who spent twelve 

 years on the Peace River in the service of the Hudson Bay Co., 

 aver the Wood Buffalo to be a distinct species, keeping entirely 

 aloof from their plains relatives. As proof of this he says that 

 " the last Prairie Buffalo ever seen in the valley was killed in 186C. 

 It was a solitary, mangy bull, a complete outcast, and this need not 

 to have been his condition had the Wood Buffaloes, [of that same 

 region] been his immediate kindred." Mr. Seton seems convinced 

 that his "Wood Buffalo" is a good "variety," but, like all who 

 wrote before him, dares not assign it a distinctive scientific name, 

 calling it " Bison amerieanus var. ?" He also advances the theory 

 (and there are many reasons for adopting it) that our plains buffalo 

 is a degenerate, modern offshoot of the ancient woodland stock, 

 which last named species exclusively inhabited the country before 

 the prairies, as such, existed. Parallel instances which he cites in 

 support of this theory are the timber and prairie wolves of the same 

 regions and the timber and barren-ground caribou. 



In Chapter X, pages 141 to 159 of his book, " Barren Ground of 

 Northern Canada," Warburton Pike, Esq. describes a hunt for 

 Wood Buffalo in February, 1890, on a tributary of Buffalo River, 

 about 50 miles south of its outlet into the southern waters of Great 

 Slave Lake. This is the first authentic published account, written 

 by an eye witness, of the country exclusively inhabited by the Wood 

 Bison, and the only specific account of a hunt for this race of buf- 

 falo by so competent an observer. 



Mr. Pike is " inclined to think that the very slight difference in 

 appearance [of the Wood Buffalo] is easily accounted for by cli- 

 matic influences, variety of food and the better shelter of the woods." 




I 



496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



This is all he has to say regarding the main subject of the foregoing 

 discussion. It is quite sufficient, however, to show that he recog- 

 nized a difference and attributed it to well known laws upon which 

 the systeinatist bases his limitations of subspecies. His remarks re- 

 garding the country and the buffaloes of the region extending from 

 the Liard River and Great Slave Lake to the Peace River, on the 

 east side of the Rocky Mountains, are of great interest. " Scattered 

 over this huge extent of country," he continues, " are still a few 

 bands of buffalo. Sometimes they are heard of at Forts Smith and 

 Vermilion, sometimes at Fort St. John close up to the big mount- 

 ains on Peace River, and occasionally at Fort Nelson on the south 

 branch of the Liard. It is impossible to say anything about their 

 numbers as the country they inhabit is so large, and the Indians, 

 who are few in number, usually keep to the same hunting ground." 

 Describing the scene of his final hunt, he says : " Prairie and timber 

 were about in equal proportion. * * * About noon we found 

 the track that we had been looking for, easily distinguishable from 

 the many tracks of moose and woodland caribou that we had crossed. 

 Little Francois made a capital approach, and after a couple of hours 

 walk we sighted a band of eight buffalo feeding in a small wood- 

 surrounded swamp." 



In the Smithsonian Reports for 1896, pages 407 to 412, Mr. W. 

 T. Hornaday devotes considerable attention to the " Wood or 

 Mountain Buffalo." It is disappointing to find that in all his re- 

 searches concerning the buffalo our author brings us no nearer a 

 solution of the question, for he never saw a specimen of this sup- 

 posed variety. In the absence of direct evidence and with an evi- 

 dent misconception of the reputed size of the woodland form, he 

 proposes a theory to occount for the relatively "smaller" propor- 

 tions of that race ! He concludes that " at present there is not the 

 slightest ground for considering that the ' Mountain Buffalo ' or the 

 ' Wood Buffalo ' is entitled to rank even as a variety of Bison amer- 

 icanus." 



One of the latest and most reliable published references to the 

 wood buffalo appeared in "Forest and Stream," Oct. 23, 1897, page 

 323. It is from the report of Inspector Jarvis, sent to the far north 

 by the Canadian Government with instructions regarding game, etc., 

 and reads: " I have taken great pains in making thorough inquir- 

 ies as possible in connection with the buffalo, their habits, number, 

 and range. The range of a scattered band of about three hundred 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



is from Peace Point to Salt Eiver, and from Salt River to within 

 twenty miles of Fort Resolution, on Great Slave Lake." 



Through the courtesy of Mr. G. B. Grinnell the writer was put in 

 communication with Mr. H. I. Moberly, of the Hudson Bay Co., at 

 Winnipeg, whose personal acquaintance with the woodland and 

 plains buffaloes renders his opinion of much value regarding their 

 so-called distinctions. Mr. Moberly writes as follows in answer to 

 a set of questions on the points in controversy : — 



Willoughby, Sask, N. W. T., November 9, 1897. 

 S. N. Rhoads, Esq. 



Dear Sir. — I have to acknowledge receipt of your letter dated 

 29th ult., and will be glad to give you as full particulars as I can 

 regarding the Buffalo : — 1st, as to size: They are much larger than 

 the Plains Buffalo. In full-grown animals they are from 100 to 200 

 lbs. heavier. 2d, relative length of limbs: They are longer limbed 

 and longer in the body than the plains' ones. 3d, length of horn : 

 The horns of the Wood Buffalo are nearlv or fullv twice the length 

 of the plains' ones, and much straighter. 4th, fur: The long fur [of 

 head, neck and shoulders] is longer and more of a silky fur than 

 the plains' ones, and the under fur thicker and finer pelt, caused, no 

 doubt, by the high latitude they live in. 5th, habitat and habits: 

 They lived formerly from the beginning of the woody country north 

 of the Saskatchewan to Great Slave Lake, and further north along 

 the east slope of the Rocky Mountains. At present there are not 

 more than two hundred and fifty to three hundred alive, and they 

 are in two bands, one on the lower Peace River, north of it, and 

 run from close to Great Slave Lake at Peace Point, which is some 

 ninety miles below Fort Vermilion. The other is on the upper 

 Hay River and ranges between Peace River and the Liard River, 

 and run down some two hundred and fifty miles east of the Rocky 

 Mountains and up to the foot of the Rocky Mountains. I certainly 

 think they are a different animal from the Plains Buffalo. One 

 reason is that formerly, when they were both numerous and met 

 time and again on the edge of the timber line, I have never known 

 any [of one kind] to go with another band [of the other kind]. 

 The Wood Buffaloes live principally on the small branches of birch 

 and willows, although at times they also eat grass. I think there is 

 as much difference between them [wood and plains animals] as there 

 is between the Wood Caribou and the small Barren Ground ones, 

 which [species] meet every winter but never join together. I am 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



not aware of any specimen of the Wood Buffalo that has been 

 stuffed, but I know that formerly some heads were sent out to Sir 

 George Simpson, who was the Governor of the Hudson's Bay Co. 

 Hoping this may be of service to you, I remain, 



Yours truly, 



H. I. MOBERLY. 



As previously remarked, Prof. John Macoun has kindly furnished 

 the writer with full data concerning the mounted specimen of Wood 

 Buffalo in the Ottawa Museum, and it is upon this specimen that 

 the following description is based. It was carefully mounted by 

 Ward, of Rochester, New York, in a tightly closed iron and glass 

 case. In consequence, Prof. Macoun was unable to get access to it 

 for more exact measurements. 



Bison bison athabascse subsp. nov. Woodland Bison. 



Type: — ad. S , in the Geological Museum, Ottawa, Canada. Pre- 

 sented through Warburton Pike, Esq., by the Hudson Bay Com- 

 pany. Secured presumably (fide Prof. J. Macoun) in March, 1892, 

 by Indians within fifty miles southwest of Fort Resolution, Great 

 Slave Lake. Specimen consists of well-mounted skin, with accom- 

 panying skull and horn-cores separate, all in one glass and iron 

 case. 



Syn. Bos or Bison americanus (= Bison bison) of authors, in part. 



"Bison americanus, var. ?" Seton [Thompson], Proc. Canad. 

 Inst., Ill, 1886, p. 114. 



General Characters. — Size larger, colors darker, horns slenderer, 

 much longer and more incurved and hair more dense and silky 

 than in B. bison. 



Description of type specimen from data furnished by Professors 

 J. Macoun and H. A. Ward : Pelage everywhere dense and silky ; 

 short and fine over much of hinder half of body, becoming very 

 dense and curly and long anteriorly, especially on shoulders and 

 neck and also quite long on the frontal aspect. Color along crest of 

 hump and vertebral line to rump "light brown," shading in all di- 

 rections to darker brown and becoming almost black on the whole 

 head, legs and belly. " Looking at head and legs you would say at 

 once they were black." Ears, muzzle, hoofs and horns and distal 

 half of tail black. 



Horns (on mounted skin) very long and strongly recurved. 

 u Curved inward so as to come towards the eye within two inches of 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



the line of the base;" nearly semicircular in exterior outline, but 

 more abruptly incurved along terminal third. Horn-cores of de- 

 tached skull strongly curved, directed at base " slightly downward " 

 below frontal plane, " then outward and upward, the tips slightly 

 incurved, the general direction of core being slightly backward; a 

 Hue drawn from middle of orbit to tip of core intersecting base of 

 core higher than in Bison bison." Horn-cores nearly circular in 

 section at base, becoming slightly flattened above, medially, " with 

 an obscure ridge below." 



Measurements. — (Sent by collector with skin to Prof. Frank A. 

 Ward). " Height at shoulders, 1,703 millimeters ; height [to rump] 

 justin front of hind legs, 1,602 mm.; total length [of head and 

 body, without tail ?] 2,846 mm." 11 



Skull: (measurements sent by Mr. J. F. Whiteaves, zoologist of 

 Canadian Geological Survey). — Frontal width, between bases of 

 horn-cores, 343 mm. ; length of horn-core measured along superior 

 curve, 293 mm.; greatest depression of superior arc of horn-core 

 below a line connecting the tip and superior base of core, 102 mm. ; 

 horns (on mounted specimen) measured along the inferior curve, 

 533 mm. ; shortest distance from tip of horn to its superior base, 

 229 mm. 



Habitat. — Wooded uplands of the Northwest Territories, formerly 

 from the east slope of the Rocky Mountains to the 95th meridian, 

 and from latitude 63° to latitude 55° ; probably ranging south 

 along the Rocky Mountains to the United States. 



Remarks. — The great size, darkness of color, and character of horn 

 and horn-core in the type of Bison bison athabascoz, granting that it 

 is typical of the form known as the Wood Bison, are quite sufficient 

 to distinguish it from the plains animal and fully justify the opin- 

 ions of many huuters and travellers as to its separability from the 

 latter. The characters of the skull alone are sufficient to warrant 

 the distinction. In the type the frontal breadth between the bases 

 of horn-cores is equal to that of the old male specimen of fossil 

 bison (PI. XII, fig. 2) from California, which Leidy figured as " B. 

 latifrons" in the Geological Survey of the Territories; and in this 

 respect is more than 50 mm. wider than the largest old male skull of 

 B. bison in the museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 



"Prof. Macoun sends the following measurements from the mou'nted speci- 

 men : — " Height at shoulder, 1,779 mm. ; length without the tail, 2,821 mm. ; 

 length of horn 458 mm. ; circumference of horn at base 318 mm." 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Philadelphia. In athabascce the relative length of the horns and horn- 

 cores to the size of the skull is about the same or even greater than 

 in antiquus, but on the other hand they are much more slender and 

 recurved than in B. bison. In their abrupt curvature they resem- 

 ble B. scaphoceras, but in their relative slenderness they are farth- 

 est from that species of any of our American species except the 

 straight and long-horned latij'rons. Judged solely by horn charac- 

 ters their place in the chronological series would appear to be the 

 latest of all our known species, with the minimum of calibre and 

 the maximum of curvature ; but the weight of evidence favors their 

 position between B. bison and the most recent fossil species. 



Below is given a list of the living and extinct species of American 

 bisons now recognized as valid, with their original references and 

 most important synonyms. The type localities, probable geographic 

 distribution and probable sequence in time are also given. Of the 

 fossil species the following were probably contemporaneous or closely 

 sequent: B. alleni, B.ferox n and B. scaphoceras in middle and later 

 Pliocene time ; B. alaskensis, B. latifrons and B. antiquus in earlier 

 and middle Pleistocene time; and " B. latifrons" (so-called, of 

 Leidy, from California) forming a connecting link in later Pleisto- 

 cene time with B. bison through B. bison athabascce. 



1. Bison alleni Marsh. Amer. Jour. Sci., 1877, p. 252 (= B. crampiamis Cope, 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 456). 



Lower Pliocene of Kansas. Great Plains of Middle North Amer- 

 ica. 



2. Bison ferox Marsh. Amer. Jour. Sci., 1S77, p. 252. 



Lower Pliocene of Kansas. Great Plains of Middle North Amer- 

 ica. 



3. Bison scaphoceras (Cope). Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1895, p. 457. 



Upper Pliocene of northern Nicaragua. Mountain regions of 

 southern Mexico and Central America. 



4. Bison latifrons (Harlan). Fauna Amer., 1825, p. 27.".. 



Pleistocene of eastern Kentucky. United States east of the Rocky 

 Mountains. 



5. Bison alaskensis Rhoads. Spec, nova (1. c.) (= B. crassicornia Richardson, 

 Zool. Voy. Herald, 1854 (in part), pp. 42 & 4:'.. PI. XIII, Bgs.. 1 & 2). 



Pleistocene of northern Alaska. Arctic America, east of the 

 Mackenzie River and north of the Arctic Circle. 



12 The status of ferox, especially in regard to its relations to latifrons, is hard 

 to determine. It is, however, close to latifrons, of which it probably was the- 

 nearest ancestor. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



6. Bison antiquus Leidy. Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 117, (= B. craasi- 

 cornis Richardson, Zool. Voy. Herald, 1S54 [restricted type], pp. 40 & 41, PL IX). 



Pleistocene of eastern Kentucky. North America, from north- 

 western Alaska to southeastern Georgia and Texas. 



7. Bison sp. T 1 3 (="B. latifrons" Leidy, Rep. U. S. Geo]. Surv. Terr., I, p. 



253, PL XXVIII, figs. 4 & 5). 



Pleistocene of western California. Pacific slope, from Oregon 

 southward. 



8. Bison bison athabascae subspec. nova (1. c), (=B. bison Auct. in part.=" Wood 

 or Mountain Buffalo "). 



Recent of northern Athabasca, N. W. T. Wooded uplands of the 

 Northwest Territories, from the east slope of the Rocky Mountains 

 to the 95th meridian, and from Iat. 63° to lat. 55° ; probably reach- 

 ing southward along the Rocky Mountains to the United States. 



9. Bison bison (Linnams). Syst. Nat., 1758, p. 72 ; (= B. americanus Guielin, Syst. 

 Nat. Linn. I, 1788, p. 204). 



Recent of Interior North America. Lowlands east of the Rocky 

 Mountains and west of the Allegheny Mountains, the Great Lakes 

 and Lake Winnipeg ; and from the Saskatchewan River south to the 

 Gulf of Mexico, near lat. 25°. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE XII. 



Fig. 1. Bison bison (L.). Old male ; Col. of Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 No. 4,589; from the plains of the western United States. 



Fig. 2. Bison californicus sp. nov. type. Old male ; Col. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Phila., No. 297 ; from Pilarcitos Valley, near San 

 Francisco, California. Labelled " Bison antiquus Leidy." 

 The original of Leidy's figures of " Bison latifrons " (sic), II. 

 S. Geol. Surv. Terr.,' Vol. I, 1873, p. 253, PI. XVIII, figs. 

 4&5. 



Fig. 3. Bison alashensis sp. nov. type. Old male; Col. of Mus. Sci. 

 and Art, Univ. of Penna., No. 13,754 ; from Tundra, near 

 Point Barrow, Alaska. 



13 During the foregoing investigations the writer was in frequent cor- 

 respondence with Mr. F. A. Lucas, of the Smithsonian Institution, who is 

 preparing an illustrated monograph of American fossil bisons, and has kindly 

 given valued suggestions on controverted points. Having called his attention 

 to the radical differences between the type of Leidy's B. antiquus and his 

 California specimen of so-called '' latifrons," Mr. Lucas now concurs in the 

 opinion that they are distinct species, and that the California species should 

 be given a name. It is therefore proposed that the name Bison californicus 

 be applied to it, the type of the species being No. 297, Col. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila. For characters, etc., see Leidy references ; also PI. XII, fig. 2. 

 33 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Fig. 4. Bison latifrons (Harlan), type. Col. of Acad. Nat. Sci., 



Phila. From Big Bone Lick, Kentucky. 

 Fig. 5. Bison crampianus (Cope), type. Col. of Acad. Nat. Sci., 



Phila., No. 3 ; from Wellington, Kansas. 

 Fig. 6. Bison alaskensis sp. nov., type. Rear view of specimen, No. 



13,754 figured under No. 3, of same plate. 

 Note. — Figures 1 to 5 inclusive were photographed on same 

 plate and as nearly at same facial angle as possible, to show their 

 comparative size and the curvature of horn-cores. Figure 6 was 

 photographed separately and on a larger scale, as will be noted on 

 comparison with figure 3 of the same specimen. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWO NEW FORMS OF PERIDERIS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Perideris Kobelti n. sp. 



Shell ovate, ventricose, whitish under an olivaceous yellow cuti- 

 cle, brownish in places. Surface obliquely plicatulate in the direc- 

 tion of growth lines, and above the periphery decussated by numer- 

 ous rather inconspicuous spiral impressed lines. Spire abruptly 

 contracted above, mucronate. Whorls about 6J, the earlier 1\ 

 forming a mamillar projection, the rest rapidly widening, last whorl 

 swollen. Suture white from loss of cuticle, and minutely beaded. 

 Aperture oblique, reddish inside; lip obtuse, brown; columella 

 whitish, vertical rather straight, subtruncate below. Alt. 65, diam. 

 40, alt. of aperture 35 mm. 



Cape Palmas, West Africa. Type in coll. A. N. S. P. 



This species is evidently identical with Kobelt's P. saulcydi 

 (Conchyl. Cab., p. 42, pi. 13, f. 1, 2). It is far from being the species 

 so called by Joaunis. It is likely that Kobelt had not seen Joannis' 

 original description and figure, from the fact that his reference to 

 that author is altogether incorrect ; and thus the misidentification 

 arose. 

 Perideris Saulcydi var. normalis n. var. 



Shell resembling Achatina Saulcydi Joannis (Magazin de Zoolo- 

 gie, 1834, Classe V, pi. 50) in the general coloration, being white 

 streaked with livid purple, with some bluish suffusion, the pen- 

 ultimate whorl whitish with reddish flames. Whorls about 7$, the 

 earlier 3 forming a mamillar mucro, higher and more distinctly 

 differentiated than in Saulcydi, those following forming a more taper- 

 ing cone than in Saulcydi, the last not perceptibly constricted below 

 the suture. Suture margined below by a narrow crenate or beaded 

 band. Sculpture : unequally, obliquely plicatulate, sometimes with 

 subobsolete spirals on penultimate whorl, the hist whorl with faint, 

 obliquely descending, scar-like impressions at right angles to the 

 growth-lines. Aperture oblique, dark purplish-brown inside ; parie- 

 tal wall orange-brown from the retention of the cuticle by the parie- 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



tal glaze. Columella somewhat concave, passing gradually into the 

 thin basal lip. 



Alt. 76, diam. 40, alt. of aperture, 36 mm. 



Alt. 74, diam. 40, alt. of aperture, 35 mm. 



" Taboo, Africa " (Robert Swift coll. in A. K S. Phila.). 



This form differs from P. Saulcydi (Joaunis) in being more elon- 

 gated and slender throughout, the last whorl not concave above, 

 aperture consequently not acuminate posteriorly as in that species ; 

 the spire more elongated and tapering, and the terminal " mamelon " 

 more pronounced. 



It is also dextral ; but as the apparent sinistrality of Joannis' 

 species may possibly (though not probably) be due to an artist's 

 failure to reverse, I do not place great stress upon this feature. 



Illustrations of this and the preceding form will appear in the 

 Manual of Conchology in due time. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



I 



PROCEEDINGS OF A MEETING HELD IN COMMEMORATION OF 

 HARRISON ALLEN, M. D., AND GEORGE HENRY HORN, M. D. 



In compliance with a resolution adopted by the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia a meeting was held December 31, 

 1897, in conjunction with kindred societies, to commemorate the 

 services rendered to science by Dr. Harrison Allen and Dr. George 

 H. Horn. The Chair having been taken by Dr. Henry Skinner, 

 Chairman of the Committee of Arrangements, the following papers 

 were read : — 



BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES OF HARRISON ALLEN AND 

 GEORGE HENRY HORN. 



BY EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



The period of the Academy's history with which Doctors Allen 

 and Horn are first identified, the years of the early '60's, was bright 

 with both accomplishment and promise. Made notable by the work 

 of the illustrious veterans who were still active and by that which 

 might be hoped for from those who were just beginning their careers, 

 it was probably the most brilliant epoch in the history of the so- 

 ciety. But few of the great collections which have since come into 

 prominence were in existence. The Smithsonian Institution was then 

 rather a distributing agency than a store-house of scientific material, 

 and museums everywhere were benefited by its activity. The United 

 States Government had not become, through the Agricultural De- 

 partment, the National Museum, and the Geological Surveys, a 

 formidable rival in the publication of scientific papers, and the 

 work of Gill, Meek, Hayden, Cones, Stimpson, Kennicott, Yarrow 

 and others was made known to the scientific world most promptly 

 and accurately through the Proceedings of this Academy. 



In the old building at the corner of Broad and Sansom Streets, 

 Leidy, easily first amoug equals, pursued his paleontological studies 

 in a little, dark and dusty room on the first floor of the museum, 

 his brilliant microscopical investigations being carried on more 

 comfortably at home. The results were reported in either case to 

 the meetings of the Academy, and could generally be depended on 

 to render them interestiug, even though nothing else were forth- 

 coming. 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Cassin had the western room of the library filled with trays of 

 mounted birds and scores of ornithological volumes which no one 

 about the place dared to touch, for Cassin was very much of an 

 autocrat and was impatient of rules. Books and specimens, how- 

 ever, were made good use of, especially on Sundays, for the 

 exigencies of bread-winning left him but little time during the 

 week for his favorite study. 



S. B. Buckley occupied the herbarium, a long, narrow, dark room 

 in the southeast corner of the second museum floor. He had pre- 

 sented and published some interesting observations on ant-life, and 

 w 7 as then working up his collection of Texan plants, the publication 

 of his results calling forth savage criticism from Asa Gray, which 

 created quite a stir at the time and gave poor Elias Durand, the 

 Director of the Herbarium, more than one bad quarter of an hour. 



The President, Isaac Lea, was reading by title his contributions 

 to the genus Unio and other conchological papers, synopses of which 

 were published in the Proceedings, to be afterward expanded into 

 parts of the Journal, sumptuously illustrated at the expense of the 

 author by some of the finest lithographs ever made in America. 



The place left vacant in 1850 by Samuel George Morton had been 

 filled by James Aitken Meigs, who, after serving a brief term as 

 Librarian, was devoting all the time he could spare from a rapidly 

 growing practice to the study of anthropology. Thirty years later 

 the Academy came into possession of the library he was then col- 

 lecting and a portion of the fortune resulting from his successful 

 professional work. 



The sound of the fierce battle between Lea and Conrad had died 

 away to a distant reverberation, and the latter, as efficiently as his 

 dyspepsia would allow, was describing fossil mollusca and making 

 autograph drawings on stone of his new species. His activity was 

 greatly stimulated by the facilities for publication supplied by the 

 newly started American Journal of Conchology, and by the interest 

 in his work displayed by the editor, George W. Tryon, Jr. 



Thomas B. Wilson had just presented the superb collections of 

 birds which for many years were, and perhaps still are, the crown- 

 ing glory of the Academy. They had been deposited from time to 

 time since 1845, and Wilson had even made an addition to the 

 Academy's building for their arrangement, but they only became 

 the absolute property of the society in March, 1860. 



We find the Curators at this time complaining that in spite of 

 Wilson's addition the building was rapidly becoming too small for the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



collections, a disadvantage which, in November, 1865, resulted in the 

 appointment of a committee " to devise," in the language of the reso- 

 lution, " methods; for advancing the prosperity and efficiency of the 

 Academy by the erection of a building of a size suitable to contain 

 the collections." 



In the intervals of cruises, Dr. Ruschenberger was introducing 

 improvements in the administration of affairs, and to his energy 

 and devotion is due the ultimate success of the Committee on 

 Building then appointed. Some administrative reforms were indeed 

 required, for although the Academy had been brought to the 

 distinguished position it then held by the voluntary labors of those 

 interested in the advancement of knowledge, the absence of 

 responsibility was productive of serious disadvantages. Up to this 

 time no one connected with the institution, except the janitor, had 

 received continuous compensation for service rendered, although 

 appropriations were made from time to time for special work as oc- 

 casion required. The services of an Assistant Librarian were se- 

 cured in January, 1862, at the munificent compensation of two dol- 

 lars a week, and an assistant to the Curators was appointed some time 

 after. Dr. Leidy, then, as during the rest of his life, Chairman of 

 the Curators, had been heard to declare that if the Academy were 

 in possession of everything it had ever owned, a building twice the 

 size of the one then occupied would be required to house the collec- 

 tions. The losses were due partly to the destructive action of time, 

 partly to bad museum methods, and partly, it is to be feared, to a 

 liberal interpretation of the law of meum and tuum. The enthusi- 

 astic young naturalists of the period were allowed to rearrange and 

 disarrange the collections as they pleased, each according to his own 

 ideas of classification. Infested birds were carried to the cellar by 

 the hundred and baked in a hot oven until they became as brittle 

 as punk. The insects, especially, were entirely neglected because of 

 the activity of the recently founded American Entomological So- 

 ciety and the serious disagreement then existing between Thomas B. 

 Wilson and John L. LeConte. A valuable collection of insects was 

 being rapidly reduced to dust, and an enthusiastic young ento- 

 mologist of the time proposed transferring the few remaining good 

 butterflies bodily to his own collection, so that they might be pre- 

 served from destruction. It was not the Curators or the members 

 of the Entomological Committee, but the Assistant Librarian who 

 prevented the carrying out of his virtuous intention. As for the 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Cassin had the western room of the library filled with trays of 

 mounted birds and scores of ornithological volumes which no one 

 about the place dared to touch, for Cassin was very much of an 

 autocrat and was impatient of rules. Books and specimens, how- 

 ever, were made good use of, especially on Sundays, for the 

 exigencies of bread-winning left him but little time during the 

 week for his favorite study. 



S. B. Buckley occupied the herbarium, a long, narrow, dark room 

 in the southeast corner of the second museum floor. He had pre- 

 sented and published some interesting observations on ant-life, and 

 was then working up his collection of Texan plants, the publication 

 of his results calling forth savage criticism from Asa Gray, which 

 created quite a stir at the time and gave poor Elias Durand, the 

 Director of the Herbarium, more than one bad quarter of an hour. 



The President, Isaac Lea, was reading by title his contributions 

 to the genus Unio and other conchological papers, synopses of which 

 were published in the Proceedings, to be afterward expanded into 

 parts of the Journal, sumptuously illustrated at the expense of the 

 author by some of the finest lithographs ever made in America. 



The place left vacant in 1850 by Samuel George Morton had been 

 filled by James Aitken Meigs, who, after serving a brief term as 

 Librarian, was devoting all the time he could sjiare from a rapidly 

 growing practice to the study of anthropology. Thirty years later 

 the Academy came into possession of the library he was then col- 

 lecting and a portion of the fortune resulting from his successful 

 professional work. 



The sound of the fierce battle between Lea and Conrad had died 

 away to a distant reverberation, and the latter, as efficiently as his 

 dyspepsia would allow, was describing fossil mollusca and making 

 autograph drawings on stone of his new species. His activity was 

 greatly stimulated by the facilities for publication supplied by the 

 newly started American Journal of Conchology, and by the interest 

 in his work displayed by the editor, George W. Tryon, Jr. 



Thomas B. Wilson had just presented the superb collections of 

 birds which for many years were, and perhaps still are, the crown- 

 ing glory of the Academy. They had been deposited from time to 

 time since 1845, and Wilson had even made an addition to the 

 Academy's building for their arrangement, but they only became 

 the absolute property of the society in March, 1860. 



We find the Curators at this time complaining that in spite of 

 Wilson's addition the building was rapidly becoming too small for the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



collections, a disadvantage which, in November, 1865, resulted in the 

 appointment of a committee " to devise," in the language of the reso- 

 lution, " methods for advancing the prosperity and efficiency of the 

 Academy by the erection of a building of a size suitable to contain 

 the collections." 



In the intervals of cruises, Dr. Ruschenberger was introducing 

 improvements in the administration of affairs, and to his energy 

 and devotion is due the ultimate success of the Committee on 

 Building then appointed. Some administrative reforms were indeed 

 required, for although the Academy had been brought to the 

 distinguished position it then held by the voluntary labors of those 

 interested in the advancement of knowledge, the absence of 

 responsibility was productive of serious disadvantages. Up to this 

 time no one connected with the institution, except the janitor, had 

 received continuous compensation for service rendered, although 

 appropriations were made from time to time for special work as oc- 

 casion required. The services of an Assistant Librarian were se- 

 cured in January, 1862, at the munificent compensation of two dol- 

 lars a week, and an assistant to the Curators was appointed some time 

 after. Dr. Leidy, then, as during the rest of his life, Chairman of 

 the Curators, had been heard to declare that if the Academy were 

 in possession of everything it had ever owned, a building twice the 

 size of the one then occupied would be required to house the collec- 

 tions. The losses were due partly to the destructive action of time, 

 partly to bad museum methods, and partly, it is to be feared, to a 

 liberal interpretation of the law of meum and tuum. The enthusi- 

 astic young naturalists of the period were allowed to rearrange and 

 disarrange the collections as they pleased, each according to his own 

 ideas of classification. Infested birds were carried to the cellar by 

 the hundred and baked in a hot oven until they became as brittle 

 as punk. The insects, especially, were entirely neglected because of 

 the activity of the recently founded American Entomological So- 

 ciety and the serious disagreement then existing between Thomas B. 

 Wilson and John L. LeConte. A valuable collection of insects was 

 being rapidly reduced to dust, and an enthusiastic young ento- 

 mologist of the time proposed transferring the few remaining good 

 butterflies bodily to his own collection, so that they might be pre- 

 served from destruction. It was not the Curators or the members 

 of the Entomological Committee, but the Assistant Librarian who 

 prevented the carrying out of his virtuous intention. As for the 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



library : a distinguished ornithologist has recently been heard to 

 lament that in Cassin's time he could take away any book he wanted. 

 The by-law governing the case then, as now, forbade the removal 

 of books from the building, and, although this gentleman doubtless 

 returned all he borrowed, the same, it is to be feared, could not be 

 said of others who violated the law. Although then without a cent 

 of endowment, this department of the Academy was kept well up 

 with the times by exchange of publications and the munificence of 

 Dr. Thomas B. Wilson. 



The meetings were interesting and well attended, and the annual 

 volume of the Proceeding*, thanks to the absence of competition, 

 had attained dimensions not since reached. 



The most hopeful feature, however, of that epoch, was the galaxy 

 of young men who were then appearing on the scene, some of whom 

 turned out to be brilliantly successful, while others were far from 

 reaching the goal of their ambition. 



Cope had been elected a member in July, 1861, although prior to 

 that he had been an active worker in the Academy. The Curators 

 had reported in 1859 : " The care of the herpetological cabinet, 

 which for some time had lost the valuable services of Dr. Hallowell 

 in consequence of illness, has now been undertaken by E. D. Cope, 

 a young man who gives promise of much future usefulness both to 

 the Academy and to Natural History." He contributed three 

 papers to the Proceedings that year, and seven in 1860. All his 

 time was at this period devoted to herpetology, his work being done 

 in a small room on the first gallery floor. It was filled to overflow- 

 ing with books, bottles, the remains of luncheons, old clothes and 

 other impedimenta. His personal peculiarities were quite as pro- 

 nounced then as a later period of his career, and he already gave 

 promise of becoming what he was afterward justly said to be : the 

 greatest naturalist born on American soil. 



Directly beneath Cope's quarters, in the northeast corner of the 

 museum floor, was the mammalogical room where John Hamilton 

 Slack, a man of great versatility, laid ambitious plans for a mono- 

 graph of the quadrumana. As first proposed, it was to take the 

 form of a dignified quarto or even folio, to be richly illustrated at 

 the expense of the author, but it eventually appeared as a modest 

 paper of sixteen pages in the Proceedings for 1862. His ability as 

 a musician and amateur conjuror interfered with his scientific work. 

 Versatility has its disadvantages. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Tryon's first paper had been contributed in 1861. He was an 

 indefatigable worker, and gave up his interest in a lucrative busi- 

 ness to devote himself to science. He was most generous in his 

 appreciation and encouragement of others. He started the American 

 Journal of Conchology in 1865, and, in 1879, the Manual of Coneh- 

 ology, which is still issued by the Section founded by him. His 

 business training and strict attention to details of management en- 

 abled him, strange to say, to make both of these unpromising enter- 

 prises yield him a revenue, all of which, with much more, was, on 

 his death, left to his favorite department of the Academy, [n 

 quite a special sense, therefore, his work continues. 



Gabb had been appointed a Jessup Fund student, and was en- 

 gaged in those studies which enabled him to render good service on 

 the Geological Survey of California, and to act as Director of the 

 Survey of San Domingo. The income of the Jessup Fund had be- 

 come available for the assistance of young naturalists in 1860, the 

 first recipient of benefits being Charles Conrad Abbott, then en- 

 gaged in the study of ichthyology, but since celebrated for his grace- 

 ful contributions to the literature of popular natural history. Dur- 

 ing the first years of the existence of the Fund, nearly all the young 

 workers in the Academy, including the subjects of this notice, and 

 several of more mature years, were assisted from the income thereof. 

 The Jessup Fund was then, and continues to be, productive of most 

 desirable results. 



Prominent in this group of aspiring young naturalists were Har- 

 rison Allen and George Henry Horn. It is especially fitting, and, 

 indeed, almost unavoidable, that the services rendered by them to 

 science should be commemorated jointly, as their lives were laid in 

 parallel lines to a singular degree. Horn was born in 1840, Allen 

 one year later ; they were pupils of the Central High School at the 

 same time, classmates and members of the same graduating class in 

 the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania; their 

 work in the Academy began about the same time, they were both 

 Jessup Fund students, they served contemporaneously in the medi- 

 cal corps of the army during the closing years of the war ; they were 

 to a limited degree, collaborators in their scientific work ; they each 

 held the office of Corresponding Secretary in the Academy, they 

 were members of the Academy's Standing Committees at the same 

 time; they sat together at the Council Board until their work was 

 done, and they died within ten days of each other — the elder after a 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



him several times and stayed some days each visit. He used to 

 bring or send an ambulance for me, and I remember the pleasure 

 I had in the country, going there. I was much struck with the ad- 

 ministrative ability he displayed. Remember that he was a very 

 young man for such a place as he held, having a considerable staff 

 of assistants, all of whom, I think, were older than himself. He was 

 a rigid disciplinarian, and I heard he was complained of for keep- 

 ing aloof from his staff, but I am inclined to think he was wise in 

 doing so. He did not join with the hospital surgeons' mess, but 

 had his meals served in a pleasant room, taking them alone or with 

 members of his staff or others whom he specially invited for each 

 occasion. His companionship was certainly very congenial to me, 

 and I presume, from the frequency and urgency of his invitations, 

 mine was to him. Our discussions were by no means confined to 

 medicine or even zoology. They embraced a wide range of subjects, 

 and I was often surprised to learn how multifarious were his sym- 

 pathies and how wide his range of reading." 



On his return to Philadelphia he made an earnest but dignified 

 canvass for the Professorship of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy 

 in the Auxiliary Faculty of Medicine of the University, just then 

 endowed by Dr. George B. Wood. He was endorsed by strong 

 letters from American and foreign naturalists who recognized the 

 merit of his published works. He had no social backing ; the influ- 

 ence he brought to bear on the Trustees of the University was 

 legitimately based on his standing as a zoologist, and was in marked 

 contrast to the campaign of at least one of his competitors. 



Dr. Allen was the successful candidate. He held the position to 

 which he was then elected until 1879. His lectures on medical 

 zoology were so well received that, at the request of the class, he pre- 

 pared his Outlines of Comparative Anatomy and Medical Zoology, 

 the publication of which was, however, owing to professional en- 

 gagements, delayed until 1869. The volume is by no means the 

 least important of the author's works, and it is of special interest in 

 the present connection inasmuch as the chapters on Hemiptera and 

 and Cantharis were contributed by Dr. Horn. 



In the latter part of 1876, Dr. Francis Gurney Smith, the Profes- 

 sor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University, was unable to con- 

 tinue his course of lectures which was completed by Dr. Henry C. 

 Chapman. The course of 1877-78 was delivered by Dr. James 

 Tyson. On his resignation at the end of that term Dr. Allen was 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



appointed to fill the vacancy. He held the professorship until 

 1885, when he resigned because of increased professional work. 

 He was emeritus professor of the Institutes until 1891, when, on the 

 death of Dr. Leidy, he resumed his old position in the Auxiliary 

 Faculty which he held until last year. He also served for one year 

 as Director of the Wistar Museum. 



On establishing himself in Philadelphia at the close of the war, 

 he at first engaged in the practice of general surgery. His love of 

 minute detail caused him to concentrate his attention on the affec- 

 tions of the upper air passages, his inclination to do so being, per- 

 haps, obscurely the result of his early dental studies. So successful 

 was he in his specialty that he soon became a recognized authority 

 in laryngology and rhyuology, the latter science having, it may al- 

 most be said, originated in his diagnosis of disturbances of the nasal 

 mucous membranes and his careful descriptions of departures from 

 the normal anatomy of the facial region. 



His professional and zoological work were equally distinguished 

 by untiring care in the elaboration of minute details, a characteris- 

 tic as evident in his first descriptions of bats as in his most recent 

 craniological studies. Had Dr. Allen been an artist instead of a 

 physician he would have been a Meissonier rather than a Makart. 



The scope of Dr. Allen's interest in professional and scientific 

 work is clearly indicated by the positions he held in the Academy 

 and elsewhere, a brief statement of which is all that can be here 

 given : — 



He was assistant to Wills' Eye Hospital from 1868 to 1870 ; Sur- 

 geon to St. Joseph's Hospital from 1870 to 1878 and visiting sur- 

 geon to the Philadelphia Hospital from 1874 to 1878. 



He held the position of Professor of Anatomy in the Philadelphia 

 Dental College from 1866 to 1878. He was Vice-President of the 

 Pathological Society of Philadelphia in 1877 ; President of the 

 American Laryngological Association in 1886, of the American 

 Association of Anatomists from 1891 to 1893, and of the Anthro- 

 pometric Society at the time of his death. He served as judge in 

 the Section of Anthropology at the Columbian Exposition in 1893, 

 and was a member of the American Philosophical Society, the Bos- 

 ton Society of Natural History, the Biological Society of Washing- 

 ton, the Philadelphia County Medical Society, the Neurological So- 

 ciety of Philadelphia, the Historical Society of Texas, and Corre- 

 sponding Member of the Society of Natural Sciences of Chili. He 

 served as President of the Contemporary Club in 1894-1895. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



It was in connection with the Academy, however, that nearly all of 

 his extra professional work was accomplished. He was but little in- 

 terested in administrative affairs, and was reluctant to accept official 

 positions the duties of which might interfere with his favorite stud- 

 ies. He served as Corresponding Secretary in 1867, and was a 

 member of the Council at intervals from 1876 until his death. He 

 also served on the Library Committee. He was instrumental in 

 founding the Anthropological Section and was its Director until 

 his death. He contributed his last scientific communication to one 

 of its meetings. The character and extent of the work accom- 

 plished in the Academy and elsewhere will be considered by com- 

 petent judges of its value. 



Dr. Allen was married to Miss Julia Colton, Dec. 29, 1869. His 

 widow, a son and a daughter survive him. He found rest and re- 

 laxation from his professional and scientific work in literature, mu- 

 sic, and the sympathy and affection of a devoted domestic circle. 

 His summers were spent at his home in Sciasconset on Nantucket 

 Island, whence he would return in the fall invigorated by the out- 

 door life of a lover of nature. 



In his intercourse with his professional b re them and his scientific 

 associates, Dr. Allen was always helpful and appreciative. A certain 

 reserve and dignity of bearing gave assurance of intellectual force 

 which was fully realized on a close acquaintance with the man and 

 his work. He was precise and careful in his statements, charitable 

 in his judgment, and generous in his dealings with the poor, the 

 weak and the sick. His religious convictions were earnest and 

 definite. He was brought up as a Hicksite Friend, but later in life 

 he accepted the doctrines of Trinitarian Christianity, and, in the 

 spring of the present year, he was baptized according to the rites of 

 the Protestant Episcopal Church. 



In the summer of 1895 he had an attack of indisposition which 

 he seems to have regarded as a premonition of the affection which, 

 two years later, proved fatal. Last April he underwent an opera- 

 tion for appendicitis from which he survived only through the 

 prompt action of his physicians in the administration of stimulants 

 and the employment of artificial respiration. His summer at Scias- 

 conset, seemed, as usual, to have strengthened his vitality. He re- 

 sumed his professional work on his return to Philadelphia, and made 

 frequent and sometimes prolonged visits to the Academy where he 

 completed some anthropological investigations, the results of which 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



will be published by the Wagner Free Institute of Science and the 

 United States Government. 



He presided at the meeting held November 12th in commemora- 

 tion of his life-long friend the late Edward D. Cope, in the rooms of 

 the American Philosophical Society. Some of those who Avere pres- 

 ent on that occasion were painfully aware that Dr. Allen was far 

 from well. Two days later, on the afternoon of Sunday, November 

 14th, he was seized with an attack of angina pectoris which resulted 

 in death. 



In 1860 he had written to his mother: " it is my ambition to be 

 known as a good physician and a good man." Those who knew Dr. 

 Allen best as a physician and a man, know with what completeness 

 of fulfilment he had lived his life. 



George Henry Horn was born in Philadelphia, April 8, 1840. 

 His preliminary education was received in the Jefferson Boys' 

 Grammar School, from which he entered the Central High School, 

 July, 1853. He took the full course and graduated with the 

 degree of Bachelor of Arts, February 11, 1858. The degree of 

 Master of Arts was conferred on him by his Alma Mater, July, 

 1863. At the time of his graduation he lived at the southwest cor- 

 ner of 4th and Poplar Streets, where his father was the proprietor of 

 a drug store. 



Almost immediately after leaving the High School he matricula- 

 ted in the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania. 

 He took his degree in medicine in 1861, his thesis being entitled 

 " Sprains." 



While yet a student of medicine he contributed his first papers to 

 the Proceedings of the Academy. He did not immediately devote 

 himself to the specialty in which he later became so distinguished, 

 his first three contributions to science being descriptions of new 

 species of recent and fossil corals and comments on Milne-Ed- 

 wards' classification of those organisms. 



There is every reason to believe that his incentive to the study of 

 natural history was received, as in Dr. Allen's case, from the profes- 

 sors of the High School. In addition to McMurtie's lectures, Dr. 

 B. Howard Rand, at that time Recording Secretary of the Acad- 

 emy, was liberal in the distribution of tickets of admission to the 

 Museum, and many of his pupils found profitable occupation for 

 their Friday afternoons in visiting the collections. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Horn was early thrown into association with Dr. John L. Le- 

 Coute, whose prominence as a coleopterologist was undisputed. The 

 mutual regard then established led to community of study and was 

 only interrupted by death. 



Dr. Horn's fourth paper, also published in 1860, was on new spe- 

 cies of North American coleoptera in the cabinet of the American 

 Entomological Society. His later contributions to science, the ex- 

 tent and value of which will be treated of by one eminently qualified 

 to do so, were, with one or two exceptions, devoted to this specialty, 

 as an authority on which Dr. Horn certainly had on rival in 

 America at the time of his death. 



Having passed the required examination, Dr. Horn received a 

 commission as Assistant Surgeon in the United States Army, March 

 1, 1863. He was attached to the 2d California Cavalry, Depart- 

 ment of the Pacific, until July 14th of the following year, when he 

 was commissioned as surgeon of the 1st California Infantry Volun- 

 teers, remaining in that position until the term of service of the regi- 

 ment expired, Dec. 3, 1864. He was again mustered into service 

 May 22, 1865, as assistant surgeon of his old regiment, the 2d Cali- 

 fornia Cavalry, and commissioned as surgeon of the 2d California 

 Infantry, September 23, 1865. His service terminated with that of 

 the staff of his regiment, April 16, 1866. 



During his military service in the west he improved the oppor- 

 tunity to make extensive additions to his collection of coleoptera, 

 and was intimately associated with the California Academy of Sci- 

 ences. 



On his return to Philadelphia he devoted himself to the geueral 

 practice of medicine, his field being in the northwestern section of 

 the city, with which he had been identified nearly all his life, and 

 wdiere he was held in the highest esteem by those to whom he min- 

 istered as a physician. lie was especially skilful as an obstetrician, 

 and hundreds of families felt that they had suffered irreparable loss 

 when he retired from the duties of active practice a few years before 

 his death. 



Dr. Horn's devotion to science was singularly undivided. Al- 

 though every obligation of his profession was regarded by him as 

 binding, he practised medicine merely as a means to an end. He 

 found at once his relaxation and intellectual profit when, after an 

 exhausting day of attendance on the sick, he was at leisure to pore 

 over his cherished insect-cases until far into the night. Not having 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



married, he was not distracted by domestic ties from his favorite 

 occupation, and for social engagements he cared but little. Art 

 and literature were to him outside issues, very well in their way, but 

 to be left to the cultivation of others. As a contributor to know- 

 ledge, his function was well-defined, and recognition of his success 

 as an entomologist was valued by him the more because of the sin- 

 gleness of his interest. 



It is gratifying to know that such recognition was conveyed to him 

 in abundant measure by those who knew of the enduriugly accurate 

 character of his work. He was one of the twelve honorary members 

 of the Entomological Society of Belgium, one of the sixteen honor- 

 ary members of the Entomological Union of Stettin, and one of the 

 eleven honorary members of the Entomological Society of Fiance. 

 He was an active member of the Russian Entomological Society, 

 Correspondent of the Boston Society of Natural History, the Bio- 

 logical Society of Washington, the Kansas Academy of Sciences, 

 and the Zoologico-Botanical Society of Vienna. He was also a 

 member of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, the Entomolo- 

 gical Societies of New York, Washington and Newark, and honor- 

 ary member of the Feldman Collecting Social. He was Librarian 

 and one of the Secretaries of the American Philosophical Society at 

 the time of his death. 



On the death of his valued friend, Dr. John L. LeConte, he was 

 elected President of the American Entomological Society, a position 

 which he held continuously until his death, combining with it the 

 Directorship of the Entomological Section of the Academy. 



He received the title of Professor of Entomology from the Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania. The position, it is believed, was entirely 

 honorary, no active duties being attached to it. 



As might be supposed from the strictly defined limits of his field 

 of scientific investigation, his work was more in connection with the 

 American Entomological Society than with the Academy, although 

 his interest in the latter was unflagging. He was elected a member 

 July 31, 1866, on his return from the west. He served as Corre- 

 sponding Secretary from 1876 to 1890. He was a member of the 

 Council from February 23, 1875 to December 26, 1876. He was 

 again elected in December, 1891, and held the position at the time 

 of his death. He also served on the Finance Committee for 1893, 

 and on the Publication Committee from 1875 to 1890, and from 

 1893 to the end. The duties of these several positions were per- 

 formed by him with fidelity and discretion. 



34 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



His relinquishment of active professional work was probably due 

 to a consciousness of failing vigor, but the gravity of his condition 

 was not manifest until December 26, 1896, when he was stricken 

 with unconsciousness while engaged in playing a game of cards with 

 some friends at the Columbia Club. Although he partially rallied 

 from the attack and was able to attend the Nansen meeting in the 

 rooms of the American Philosophical Society, his work was done 

 and the interval was one of patient waiting for the end. Among 

 his few relaxations during his later years, had been those enjoyed as 

 a member of a fishing club which occupied a comfortable house at 

 Beesley's Point, N. J. He took an active part in the management of 

 the establishment, and the last months of his life were spent there, 

 until a renewed attack of cerebral hemorrhage terminated in death, 

 November 24th of the present year. 



The loss sustained by the Academy in the death of Drs. Horn 

 and Allen is the most recent of a disastrous series beginning in 1891 

 with that of Dr. Joseph Leidy, and immediately preceded early 

 in the present year by that of the brilliant naturalist, Edward D. 

 Cope. The effect of such subtraction from the membership of the 

 society must be acutely felt, but the work of these distinguished 

 men lives after them, and we may be consoled by the hope that the 

 influences which formed them, and which in no small measure 

 emanated from this Academy, may continue to produce worthy 

 successors who will be sustained and encouraged by the unselfish 

 devotion to the cause of intellectual advancement of those who have 

 gone before. 



DR. ALLEN'S ZOOLOGICAL WORK. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



So far as we have any record, Dr. Harrison Allen's first and last 

 papers on zoological subjects, as well as his last verbal communica- 

 tion before a scientific body, were originally presented in this Acad- 

 emy. Of seventy contributions to science, accessible to the author, 

 fully one-half were first issued in the publications of this society. 



In systematic zoological work Dr. Allen's publications number 

 about thirty; in comparative anatomy, forty; those exclusively 

 relating to Man number seven, while eight relate largely to the 

 special subject of animal locomotion. With the exception of about 

 ten of the seventy titles attributed to him, his papers are in the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



nature of brief contributions to four of the more important Ameri- 

 can scientific journals and cover from one to four pages each. In 

 many cases they were simply elaborations of verbal announcements 

 first made at the meetings of this Academy. His monographic 

 work comes under four titles, and it is worthy of special note that 

 of the seventy titles appearing under his name, thirty-five relate 

 almost exclusively to the Chiroptera or bats. 



Dr. Allen's systematic work was confined wholly to the bats, a 

 fact the more remarkable in view of his wide knowledge of and 

 interest in many other families of the Mammalia. It is significant 

 of his very early interest in this difficult and neglected group of 

 animals, that his first published paper was printed in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy in 1861 under the title, Descriptions of New 

 Pteropine Bats from Africa. He here describes a new genus and 

 three new species of African bats in the collections made by Du 

 Chaillu and presented by subscription to the Academy. As a 

 fir.<t effort this paper is surprisingly well prepared, both from the 

 systematic and the anatomical points of view. Even granting 

 his anatomical knowledge as a graduate of medicine, it is difficult 

 to believe that the author had not made &, close study of the bats 

 previous to inspecting the Du Chaillu novelties. The theory 

 that his interest in the Du Chaillu collections, coupled with the 

 opportunity of entering upon a comparatively unworked field of 

 original research, was the incentive of his life-long devotion to study 

 of the Chiroptera, is probably correct. 



Only three short papers by him, all on the Chiroptera, appeared 

 between 1861 and 1864, during his service in the United States 

 Army. It was in Washington while thus engaged that he came 

 under the inspiring influence of Prof. S. F. Baird, to which was 

 probably due the issue, in 1864, of his first Mo7iograph of the Bats 

 of North America. 



Professor Baird having wholly omitted the Chiroptera from his 

 great work on North American mammals, published by the Govern- 

 ment in 1857, Dr. Allen was now able to supply a long felt need in the 

 zoological literature of America. Confined as it was to a technical 

 treatment of the species found north of Mexico, the monograph was 

 limited to eighty-five pages of a volume of the Smithsonian Miscel- 

 laneous Collections. Of the twenty species and eight genera recog- 

 nized, one genus and six species were first described by the author. 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



In forming an estimate of this work it would be unfair to test it 

 by later standards. We must allow much for the crude conceptions 

 and scant knowledge of American bats then existing among the 

 most distinguished naturalists. The number of specimens then 

 available for study in our museums was but a tithe of those now 

 existing, and in the light of such facts Dr. Allen's initial work, per- 

 formed during his leisure hours, does him credit as the pioneer in 

 this branch of mammalogy. 



In 1893 his second Monograph of the North American Bats 

 appeared as Bulletin No. JfS of the National Museum. This issue, 

 more than twice the size of its predecessor, is based on more exten- 

 sive suites of specimens than the first and summarizes the investiga- 

 tions of himself and others, including Dobson, during the intervening 

 thirty years. The book is well illustrated, new methods of ana- 

 tomical comparison are introduced and the morphology in many 

 cases is greatly elaborated. The results, from the standpoint of 

 the systematist, are somewhat confusing, and it is evident that 

 the author was at times led astray by a wrong conception of the 

 laws of geographic variation and unduly biased by his theory 

 of pedomorphism. His effort to set his nomenclature on an endur- 

 ing basis is only partially successful, handicapped as he was by 

 his association with old-school systematists and the small amount of 

 leisure which active office practice allowed him for an exhaustive 

 examination of the literature. As a compendium of our knowledge 

 of North American bats up to that period, in some cases half-con- 

 cealing yet half-revealing the truths which have recently been 

 elaborated by Mr. G. Miller, Jr. in his Revision of the North 

 American Vespertilionidce, 1 Dr. Allen's last edition is a valuable 

 and enduring work, full of original suggestion. It is the standard 

 by which we must judge all future systematic work on the American 

 Chiroptera. It is to be regretted that Mr. Miller should have 

 neglected to do honor, in his Revision, to Dr. Allen's long and 

 faithful service in this special department of zoology. The success 

 of the later naturalist in his monographic work has only been made 

 possible by the years of patient research, the mistakes, the sugges- 

 tions, and withal the earnest truth-seeking, of Dr. Harrison Allen. 



In comparative anatomy Dr. Allen published about forty papers, 

 most of which are in the form of communications to learned societies 

 on the anatomy of Man and the bats, and among these may be 



1 North Amer. Fauna, No. 13, 1897. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



classed those relating to animal locomotion. In 1869 appeared his 

 Outlines of Comparative Anatomy and Medical Zoology, a com- 

 pend of his lectures delivered in the University of Pennsylvania as 

 Professor of the branches treated of. The concise character of this 

 little book, its simplicity of classification and treatment, and its 

 suggestiveness to the student in original research, distinguish it from 

 ordinary text books, and it may still serve as a valuable guide to 

 instructors in anatomy. 



Notes on the Conformation of the Mammalian Skull and Studies 

 in the Facial Region, also record observations indicating the special 

 studies which Dr. Allen had been conducting previous to the year 

 1875 and which were bringing him into prominence as an anatomist. 



In his studies of animal locomotion Dr. Allen deserves special 

 notice, standing as he does quite alone in his discussion of Prof. Muy- 

 bridge's instantaneous photography of animals in motion. This 

 work was performed at the request of the University of Pennsylvania. 

 He had previously studied anatomically the limbs of the mammalia, 

 notably the wings of bats, with a similiar purpose in view. His 

 paper was modestly entitled Materials for a Memoir on Animal 

 Locomotion. On this unpretentious basis the whole essay is largely 

 conducted, no theories or generalizations being indulged in where a 

 more imaginative writer would have felt at liberty to roam at will. 

 He confined his speculations on animal locomotion, as in his previous 

 work, chiefly to practical suggestions for future investigation. 



In connection with this work we find several examples of newly- 

 coined words and technical terms called for by Dr. Allen's studies 

 in minute anatomy. Without such additions to nomenclature a new 

 branch of technical study such as the one undertaken by Muybridge 

 and Allen could not be intelligently, and at the same time concisely, 

 presented. 



In 1884 Dr. Allen published his System of Human Anatomy, 

 a quarto volume of eight hundred pages, profusely illustrated, and 

 representing an amount of learning and labor far out of proportion 

 to its popularity and financial success. 



His Distribution, of Color Marks in the Mammalia which appeared 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy in 1888, is the most important con- 

 tribution to the literature of the subject yet published by an Amer- 

 ican author. He states his " main object has been to contemplate 

 color marks as the result of nutritive processes, controlled by recog- 

 nized biological forces both in health and disease." The paper is a 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



valuable record of observations made on the lines defined by previous 

 writers, especially by Eschricht and Voigt, on the human subject. 

 It forms a valuable summary of previous work, adding much mate- 

 rial for future research, but advancing no hypotheses. In this the 

 author was consistent with the cautious conservatism which charac- 

 terized his life. 



Taking a comprehensive view of the zoological work of Dr. Allen 

 in connection with our knowledge of his personality, we are most im- 

 pressed with its conscientiousness united to an unselfishness only too 

 rare among men of Science. 



In a personal acquaintance with Dr. Allen as a student of zoology, 

 the author was early impressed with his serious and deliberate, 

 almost solemn, consideration of the subject in hand. A more inti- 

 mate acquaintance revealed his geniality and humor and his 

 philosophic interest in created things. 



He never reached conclusions hastily even on subjects of minor im- 

 port. His faculty, may it not be said his genius, for tentative sugges- 

 tion as to the significance of phenomena was exercised in such a con- 

 servative way that it could neither mislead nor be misconstrued as 

 a declaration of belief. His sincerity of purpose, his humility, and 

 his love of nature endeared him to his associates and emphasize 

 their regret for his loss. 



DR. ALLEN'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY. 



BY DANIEL G. BRINTON, M. D. 



The field of science, strictly so-called, which Dr. Allen cultivated, 

 was that of anatomy, and primarily human anatomy. 



He understood this science, however, in a very different sense from 

 that in which it is usually presented in medical schools. He was 

 not at all in sympathy with the programme which reduces anatomy 

 to the position of a. handmaid to clinical surgery. Such a method 

 he considered not only unworthy the true relations of anatomical 

 study, but ultimately an injury to practical medicine itself; because 

 etiology is the only sure guide to rational practice; and etiology 

 means nothing so much as the investigation of progressive tissue- 

 change, in other words, histological and gross anatomy. 



It was in this spirit that he applied his profound and minute 

 knowledge of human and comparative anatomy to medical and surgi- 

 cal questions, and with the same broad grasp he attacked the problems- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



of somatology or anthropologic anatomy. His contributions to this 

 latter branch it will be my effort to sketch. 



Its special aim is to set forth clearly and to estimate justly the 

 anatomical difference which we find, on the one hand, between races 

 or varieties of the human species, and on the other, between this 

 species itself and those below it in the scale of organized beings. 



It is, in the fullest sense of the word, morphology : the study of 

 forms and their fluctuations under the influences of environment, 

 nutrition, correlation, heredity and pathological processes, the en- 

 deavor always being to trace the given form to its etiological fac- 

 tors. Thus its methods are those of inductive science in the truest 

 sense. Yes, they go beyond this ; they lead up, in their highest ex- 

 pression, to laws and formulas which are cosmic in application, and 

 express the universals of knowledge. 



This was fully recognized by Dr. Allen, and he gave it expression 

 in the memorable phase, " Morphology embraces all animated 

 structures as parts in a scheme of Philosophy." 



I wish to emphasize this dictum, because all his work in the 

 somatic field of anthropology was dominated by, and must be read 

 in the light of, this wide conception of its meaning. 



No greater mistake could there be than to imagine that this rec- 

 ognition of the indefinite value of observations led him to seek pre- 

 mature generalization or to neglect minuteness of details. The op- 

 posite is true, and it were hard to find an example of a more pains- 

 taking, laborious student of the smallest features of individual and 

 racial anatomy. 



I could not bring to your knowledge a more striking example of 

 this than one of his earliest contributions to anthropologic anatomy, 

 one published more than thirty years ago in the Dental Cosmos for 

 November, 1867. 



Its subject is The Jaw of Moulin- Quignon, a title which will 

 probably not be very full of meaning to many of you, so I must 

 premise by explaining it. 



When the celebrated French antiquary, Boucher de Perthes, 

 made his discovery of hand-made stone implements in the pregla- 

 cial gravels of Abbeville, it was objected to him that no human 

 bones had been found among those of the elephants and hippopot- 

 ami in the strata. He saw the force of this objection and offered a 

 handsome sum to any of the quarrymen who should make such a 

 discovery. It is not surprising that in a short time such a human 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



relic was found, the half of a lower jaw, imbedded in the gravel 

 about fifteen feet below the surface. He announced it with glee, 

 but the jaw met with such an equivocal reception that a mixed 

 English and French commission of expert geologists, archaeologists 

 and anatomists, was appointed to repair to Abbeville and settle the 

 discussion. The result could have been predicted. The committee 

 convened, talked, inspected the gravel pit and went away, each mem- 

 ber being more than ever convinced that his former view was correct. 



This took place in 1863, and for several years there continued a 

 lively debate as to the authenticity of the find, eminent scientists 

 arraying themselves on each side. 



Without referring to other points in the controversy, I shall men- 

 tion only that which attracted Dr. Allen — the anatomical peculiar- 

 ties of the bone. It was argued by those who believed the find to 

 be genuine, that the characteristics of this lower jaw were so marked 

 that it must have belonged to a race of men widely divergent from 

 the present inhabitants of France. It was to this special question 

 that Dr. Allen addressed himself. He divided it into two headings, 

 as follows : 



1. What is the pattern of an ordinary jaw ? 



2. What is the value of the lower jaw in Man, as a test character 

 of race ? 



You will form some idea of the amount of labor which the author 

 bestowed on this paper when I add that in its preparation he visited 

 every important anatomical collection in Philadelphia, measured 

 and handled more than four hundred inferior maxillaries, and based 

 his results on the close comparison of three hundred and twenty, 

 from adults and in perfect condition. 



I have space to give his conclusions only, which are so far-reach- 

 ing and based on such exhaustive observation, that they should be 

 committed to memory by every student of racial anatomy. The 

 first refers to the bone under consideration, and is this: 



" The lower jaw is of little value as a test character of race owing 

 to its wide variations in every race." 



The second is a generalization which bears upon comparative 

 racial anatomy as a whole ; to wit : 



" Any character or group of characters, pertaining to any single 

 bone, lose their value when used in framing general conclusions." 



In the application of the principle here annunciated, lies the aim 

 of most of Dr. Allen's subsequent work in comparative racial an at- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



omy. He was never satisfied with describing variations merely. 

 To his acute and orderly mind they remained valueless and mean- 

 ingless until their full significance, both as cause and consequence 

 in the complete morphology of the individual, was set forth. 



This masterly grasp of the inter-relation of anatomical facts was 

 finely illustrated by his various communications in the Proceedings 

 of this Academy and elsewhere, on the consequences brought about 

 when the immediate ancestor of Man gradually adapted himself to 

 walk upright instead of upon '"all fours." 



Dr. Allen traced most of the special anatomical characteristics 

 of Man to this evolution from a quadrupedal to a bipedal type. He 

 pointed out how it led to a new disposition or re-arrangement of the 

 special organs, such as pushing the heart over to the left side due to 

 the flattening of the sternum, and changes in the position of the 

 teeth. He took pains to point out also that our species is still far 

 from being entirely adapted for the erect position, as is evidenced by 

 the inadequate valvular mechanism of the veins, the shape of the 

 pelvis and other features. 



Such considerations led him in one of his later papers, read be- 

 fore the Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons, (1894), to 

 point out the practical application of morphology as a factor in the 

 etiology of disease. This essay is full of interesting matter for the 

 anthropologist, and is largely based on comparative racial anat- 

 omy. 



He justly says : "The scientific study of race in connection with 

 diseased action is almost an unbroken field." 



I have space to mention only two of the highly important con- 

 clusions reached in that essay. 



The first is the striking distinction which he draws between spe- 

 cialization and degeneration in Man, as compared with analogous 

 processes in the lower animals. I illustrate it by his example of 

 the change from a quadritubercular to a tritubercular tooth in the 

 human species. Dr. Allen remarks of this : " We can say with cer- 

 tainty that the loss of a cusp in a human molar tooth is associated 

 with decreased initial energy ; and that such changes are not due, 

 as in the lower animals, to adaptation to special, and as a rule to 

 higher ends." 



The second point in this paper of the greatest interest to anthro- 

 pologists, is the contrast which Dr. Allen draws between the skele- 

 tons of civilized and uncivilized men. The bones of civilized peo- 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



pies are marked by an absence of correlation, or, to use bis own ex- 

 pression, " The bones themselves appear to become individualized." 



This presents a curious analogy to the sociological results of civil- 

 ization, for it is generally acknowledged that the highest product of 

 culture is the development of the individual life, and the specializa- 

 tion of mental activities. 



Dr. Burt J. Wilder, in commenting on this address, remarked 

 that the fundamental thesis of the author appeared to be that 

 structure is a record of function. Though Dr. Allen did not directly 

 accept this rendition of his philosophy, my own impression is that 

 it is in full accord with his teachings. 



The study of morphology from its artistic or pictorial side led 

 Dr. Allen, in 1875, to the publication, in the Transactions of the 

 American Philosophical Society, of his suggestive treatise entitled 

 An Analysis of the Life Form in Art. It covers 71 quarto pages, 

 and the text is illustrated by 185 figures. The chief aim of the 

 author was to analyze those art forms of early or savage peoples 

 which have originated in models found in nature; to point out those 

 peculiar traits in animals and plants which caught the eye of the 

 primitive artist; and to set forth the passage from the realistic to 

 the conventional in early design. 



Such models as the palm-tree, the serpent, the man, the lion, etc., 

 are selected as examples, and traced with minuteness in their repre- 

 sentations in ancient and uncultivated art. 



This was a delicate and difficult task, and it must be said that it 

 would not be safe to follow all of Dr. Allen's identifications. The- 

 study of primitive decorative art has made rapid progress in the 

 last score of years, and the principles it now accepts were scarcely 

 known that long ago. Still, this work may be studied with profit, 

 and the accurate and philosophic conception of life form which 

 everywhere guides the author, leads him to many suggestions of per- 

 manent value. 



A portion of it is devoted especially to subjects from aboriginal 

 American design and pictography, which is an added claim to ita 

 consideration by the archaeologist. 



In the last few years of his life Dr. Allen devoted much time to 

 researches in craniology proper, endeavoring to place that vacillat- 

 ing branch of anthropology on a secure footing. 



In 1894 he proposed in the Proceedings of this Academy a new 

 method of determining the plane of the skull, and in 1896 advo- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



cated the adoption of a uniform method of describing its form and 

 parts. In general theory, he followed Dr. James Aitken Meigs in 

 his classification, and pointed out that the quite recent plan of Pro- 

 fessor Giuseppe Sergi is little more than a return to Meigs' meth- 

 ods. 



He was the first (in 1891) to suggest the term " pedomorphism " 

 as signifying the retention of infantile and adolescent traits in the 

 adult skull, and extended the connotation of the term to the whole 

 skeleton. He gave this characteristic a more exact value, by show- 

 ing that it is present in greater or lesser degree in every skull, and 

 he urged that such traits should form a part of the description of 

 every specimen. 



The chief results of his studies in craniology are included in two 

 remarkable memoirs. The earlier was published in the Journal of 

 this Academy for 1896, entitled Crania from the Mounds of the 

 St. Johns River, Florida : a Study made in connection with Crania 

 from other parts of North America. 



The reception which this memoir received among craniologists 

 was most favorable. Professor Emil Schmidt, of Leipzig, one of 

 the most competent judges in Europe, said of it at the- close of a 

 review in the Centralblatt fur Anthropologic: "This is the most 

 important contribution to craniological science which American 

 scientific literature has offered for a long series of years." 



It would be quite impossible to do it justice in a few words, and 

 and it would be inappropriate here to enter into its technical details. 

 It may be sufficient to say that it advances a new and more com- 

 plete terminology than that now generally in use ; that various 

 novel and ingenious instruments for measurement are described ; 

 and that the comparisons instituted are of the most thoroughgoing 

 kind. 



These lines of thought and others of an allied nature were con- 

 tinued in a memoir, not yet published, but which will soon appear 

 in the Transactions of the Wagner Free Institute of Science. Its 

 subject is a series of skulls from the Hawaiian Islands, some from 

 caves, others from shore burials. 



As this memoir was completed by Dr. Allen but a few weeks be- 

 fore his death, it may be considered to embody his maturest opin- 

 ions, and I shall give it, therefore, a somewhat full examination. 



The same terminology is adopted in it, as in the previous memoir 

 referred to, and the methods of investigation are the same or anal- 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



ogous. It illustrates bis constant aim to establish some other, and 

 if possible more stable, criteria of cranial comparison than those in 

 common use ; and, on the other hand, to subject the latter to a 

 much closer criticism than they have heretofore received. 



In the former direction he emphasizes the significance of the 

 presence of the prenasal fossa as determining grade ; points out the 

 value of the infraorbital suture, which is generally neglected ; and 

 offers as entirely new the comparisons of the pyramidal process of 

 the palatal bone and the prominence or recession of the zygoma 

 when the skull is viewed from above. He estimates with precision 

 the signification of pedomorphism as a sign not so much of arrested 

 as of incompleted development. 



One of the most striking results reached is, in his own words, 

 that " the differences between the crania are not due to race, but to 

 methods of living, and in some degree to differences of mental 

 strength in individuals." This modest statement by no means con- 

 veys the full import of his demonstration. What his laborious, 

 skilful, and accurate measurements show, taken in conjunction with 

 the proved unity of race but diversity of nutrition and culture- 

 conditions of his specimens, is that the ordinary contrasts in skull- 

 forms, upon which many stately theories of races and schemes of 

 prehistoric interminglings have been erected, are of such doubtful 

 significance that they are inadequate for that purpose. 



Pursuing this line of research further, Dr. Allen asked himself, 

 what is the proximate and remote etiology, what are the immediate 

 and more distant factors in the modification of skull forms? In 

 this memoir he brings out some of these with force, while others 

 which, had he lived, he would have developed fully, are merely 

 suggested. Thus, the correlation of the loss of the upper front 

 teeth with important variations in cranial conformation is admira- 

 bly set forth ; and the influence of diseased action causing disuse, 

 and thus, in turn, lessening nutrition and modifying shape and con- 

 tour, is clearly explained. 



Some inquiries which he advanced tentatively were of far more 

 weight in his own mind than his expressions indicate. For exam- 

 ple, in the last conversation I had with him, a few days before his 

 decease, he asked my attention particularly to the consideration 

 whether the whole range of exanthemata, and especially measles, to 

 which the white race has been time out of mind exposed and is now 

 largely immune, are not chargeable with many of its peculiar char- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



acteristics in facial and cranial anatomy. It was clearly his inten- 

 tion to present this from a much wider comparative scheme had his 

 life been spared. 



He almost incidentally refers to a subject which interested him 

 deeply and on which he would have made more extended examina- 

 tions; that is, as above mentioned, the mental capacity of the indi- 

 vidual as a distinct cause of modified skull form. While this in it- 

 self is not new, he aimed to approach it by novel tests. 



The last lines of that memoir are indicative of his loftier estimate 

 of craniology than a mere criterion of race. As such, he did not 

 esteem it highly ; but he saw in the investigation of the nutritive, 

 psychical, cultural and morbid processes which alter the cranial 

 contours, admirable illustrations of those profound forces which 

 shape and mould life forms everywhere, and are the underlying 

 momenta of all morphology, whether of plants or animals. In this 

 comprehensive sense, craniology takes just rank among the great 

 and leading subjects of scientific investigation. 



Another feature in the memoir which will attract the student is 

 a novel graphic method of displaying similarities and differences of 

 skull form. Dr. Allen called it the " terrace method," and it has 

 obvious advantages over the curvilinear graphic systems now in 

 use. 



This brief review of Dr. Allen's labors in one branch of learning 

 would be still more imperfect did I neglect to record some of his 

 personal characteristics as a student and teacher of science. Every- 

 where his work was marked by a singular modesty of claim, by 

 entire justice to the labors of others in the same field, by gentleness 

 in criticising their results, by constant willingness to assist those 

 who sought information, by an earnest desire to stimulate the love 

 of knowledge for its own sake, and by unceasing efforts to present 

 this knowledge in its broadest relations both to human welfare and 

 abstract science. 



DR. HORN'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO COLEOPTEROLOGY. 



BY JOHN B. SMITH. 



When it is said that poets are born, not made, it is putting in a 

 loose and popular form the fact that men are unequally endowed at 

 birth ; that special faculties are inborn in some who, if they are 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



given the opportunity to use them, become eminent in literature, art 

 or science. 



It is certain that Dr. George H. Horn was a born systematist : — 

 a man with a genius for arranging things, for ferreting out their 

 true relationships, for ascertaining the meaning of apparently mean- 

 ingless structures, and for uniting everything into a consistent, con- 

 gruent whole. 



It is probable that, whatever the line of natural science taken up 

 it would have profited by Dr. Horn's work. It is certain that the 

 study of Coleoptera has been enormously advanced by him, and 

 that not only were new facts added, but old, well known matter be- 

 came endowed with new life and meaning under his masterly treat- 

 ment. 



He exhibited an interesting combination of the almost intuitive 

 ability to reach sound conclusions characteristic of certain brilliant 

 Frenchmen, with the power to give close attention to detail and to 

 painfully strive after facts peculiar to many German students. It 

 is this ability to do patient work in securing facts, and to marshal 

 them in such order that they led irresistibly to the conclusion which 

 he had reached, that gives his work its permanent scientific value. 



It is difficult to speak of Dr. Horn without referring also to Dr. 

 John L. Leconte: — first and always his teacher, afterward also his 

 co-laborer. And it was wonderful how these two men supplemented 

 each other ! Dr. Leconte was the broader student of nature ; his 

 grasp was wider and he saw the Coleoptera more truly in their rela- 

 tion to other orders, and the insects in their relation to the rest of 

 the animal kingdom. Dr. Horn was narrower, but his knowledge 

 of detail was greater and more accurate. The result of combining 

 these two characteristics may be seen in the Classification of the 

 North American Coleoptera, a work, the like of which does not exist 

 in any other country or in any other language. There are more 

 elaborate books, profusely illustrated, much more expensive and 

 equally valuable as contributions to entomological science; but 

 nowhere is there so much, so clearly and succinctly told in so small 

 a compass. There is scarcely a useless word in the book, yet all 

 that is needful to inform the student is there. It represents the ripe 

 experience of Dr. Leconte and the critical and accurate knowledge 

 of technical detail characteristic of Dr. Horn. 



It is difficult to estimate rightly Dr. Horn's influence on Coleop- 

 terology at the present time. There is no doubt that for America 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



he fixed a standard below which no future worker may fall if he 

 desires to obtain recognition, or to be considered other than an 

 amateur. In other countries his methods and conclusions were at 

 first opposed, then tolerated, and now some of the younger workers 

 are beginning to follow him. In the United States almost all recent 

 work has been on the models furnished by him. There is only one 

 notable exception. His influence appears strongly in almost every 

 paper on Coleoptera that has been published in the United States 

 during the last decade, and no doubt so long as these writers con- 

 tinue, this influence will be felt. He has set the example of thor- 

 oughness, and nothing else will be acceptable in the future. He has 

 •constantly taught us that individuals are parts of an aggregate 

 species, and that species are not isolated facts or productions but 

 parts of a great scheme which it is the work of the systematist to 

 unravel. This is the impression gained from his work and such 

 were his verbal statements at society and other meetings. The in- 

 fluence of this teaching will be felt throughout at least the present 

 generation. In breaking away from the older schemes of classifica- 

 tion and seeking characters, not only in one organ or any one set of 

 organs or appendages, but everywhere on the body ; in proving that 

 nothing is too insignificant to be studied and to have a meaning, he 

 has rendered a service, not only to Coleopterology, but to entomo- 

 logy at large, which will not be estimated at its true worth for some 

 time to come. 



He early impressed upon me, the important fact that the only 

 true way to do systematic work is to ascertain how the species under 

 consideration had developed, and this perhaps is the true secret of 

 his success in untangling many of the problems in the classification 

 of the Coleoptera. The certainty with which he seized upon the im- 

 portant characters, though sometimes almost the most inconspicuous 

 as well, seemed often little short of marvellous, and when once he 

 had the clue, the persistence with which he followed it and the skill 

 with which he showed how what was, had come to be, challenged 

 the admiration of all who used the published results of his labors. 



The strength of his faith in the correctness of his system is shown 

 by the fact that several times when he found what he considered un- 

 warranted breaks, he predicted the discovery of other species with a 

 stated combination of characters ; and these species have been in 

 most cases, actually discovered. It is not the least of Dr. Horn's 

 services to Coleopterology that he has set so clear an example as to 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897.. 



induce other workers in other departments of entomology to accept 

 his methods so generally. 



To be recognized, a species must be described and named, and in 

 entomology, especially, there is a great field for one afflicted by the 

 mihi itch. But while, by force of circumstances, Dr. Horn was 

 occasionally compelled to describe species singly, yet this was always 

 a disagreeable task, the greatest number of the species named by 

 him, and these run well over a thousand, being described in mono- 

 graphic or systematic papers and their relationship to those already 

 named, properly brought out. He always claimed that there was no 

 evidence that an insect was really suffering for the want of a name, 

 and that no wrong would be done to it by postponing the christen- 

 ing for a brief period. 



To him a species was not of interest in itself, or merely as a new 

 thing that was to be named. It was of the greatest interest only 

 when it filled a gap in a series. Species to him were steps, halting 

 places in the march toward a specific structure or combination of 

 structures, and he was always delighted when a particularly long 

 stretch of territory was broken by a new discovery. 



The result of this mode of looking at species is seen in his arrange- 

 ment of tables and synopses ; always the effort is to express the 

 structural relations of the forms to each other, and the various lines 

 that diverge from each obvious type. It is also shown in his descrij)- 

 tion of species, which are models of clear statement in which essen- 

 tials are emphasized, structure is given the foremost rank, and minor 

 details are often mentioned only as a mere incident. The important 

 point to him was the combination of characters ; the individual was 

 useful only as an evidence that such a combination actually existed. 



In this matter of specific descriptions I may be allowed to quote 

 the opinion of Mr. Henry Ulke of Washington, D. C, the oldest of 

 the American entomologists to-day, the companion and friend of Dr. 

 Leconte almost from the beginning of his work, and equally the 

 friend and fellow-worker of Dr. Horn. He says " Up to this time 

 it was necessary for all entomologists, even Horn, to consult the 

 types before beginning any monographic work, to ascertain what the 

 describer meant, and to visit Cambridge, London, Paris, or other 

 places for that purpose. With Horn this is not necessary. His de- 

 scriptions are so ideally accurate that one is never in doubt as to 

 which species is under examination. His lucidity and clearness 

 often remind me of a well executed portrait where the resemblance 

 to the original is so striking as to be recognized at the first glance." 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 533 



He never described an individual as a specific representative. He 

 insisted that a species could never be represented by one individual, 

 or even by one sex only. The characters of both male and female 

 combined were necessary to make it intelligible, and the true idea 

 of a species comprises also all of its variations in both sexes. Almost 

 as a logical necessity he did not believe in types, and I do not think 

 that there is a single specimen in his entire collection so labelled. 

 In his view every specimen in his hands, when he described a 

 species, was equally a type, and the only concession he would make 

 toward the single example idea was to place one specimen on the 

 label. 



This is a point on which opinions vary. I am not sure that I 

 would like to go quite so far as he in this particular. I believe that 

 the Doctor was perfectly correct in his idea of a species. It seems 

 to me, indeed, the only logical conception ; but I am not certain 

 that it was good policy to neglect the designation of an individual 

 as representing the described combination. No man is infallible, 

 and even Dr. Horn may have confused two species under one name, 

 and the designation of an individual type would possibly save trouble 

 afterward in selecting the particular form which should stand for 

 the name proposed by him. 



Dr. Horn was a hard worker in every sense of the word. His 

 temperament was such that he was never really happy unless at 

 work, and a fair day's scientific labor was always accomplished, 

 even when the demands of his profession kept him up for almost 

 entire nights. It needs only a reference to the publications of the 

 American Entomological Society to get some idea of the amount of 

 work that was accomplished, and as to its quality, the standard 

 remains the same up to the very last paper published by him. 



His work began with Descriptions of three new species of Gor- 

 gonidce in the Collection of the Academy, published in the Proceed- 

 ings for 1860, p. 233, or thirty-seven years ago. 



His first entomological paper : Descriptions of new North Amer- 

 ican Coleoptera in the Cabinet of the Entomological Society of 

 Philadelphia, was published in the same volume, pp. 569-571, with 

 Plate 8. 



The list of his papers comprises 240 titles, only six of them non- 

 entomological, and in them about 150 new genera and more than 

 1.550 new species were characterized. The papers are not widely 

 scattered : the Proceedings of this Academy, of the American Philoso- 



35 




534 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



pineal Society and the Transactions of the American Entomological 

 Society contain by far the greatest proportion and all the most im- 

 portant of them. 



Yet a mere enumeration of the number of titles and of the number 

 of genera and species described does not give an adequate idea of 

 Dr. Horn's contribution to the literature of American Coleopterology. 

 He never wrote merely to fill space and few of his titles represent 

 short notes. Almost all represent the results of original study and 

 many titles cover considerably over 100 pages of print. This print 

 itself is usually condensed and so is the language of the author. Dr. 

 Horn possessed in an unusual degree the power of succinct statement 

 and he never wasted words. It was his practice to formulate his 

 conclusions in the briefest possible manner and to present his proofs 

 simply and without argument. 



Though but 150 genera are credited to him, yet of the almost 

 1,900 accredited to our fauna he has studied nearly all and has 

 actually characterized for the Classification by far the greatest 

 number of them. 



While the species described by him number but 1,550 yet in de- 

 scribing these he made known to us more clearly than they were 

 known before, more than half of the 11,000 described North Amer- 

 ican Coleoptera. The work he did was simply stupendous and it 

 grows on one as he considers it. Everywhere order appears out of 

 chaos ; under his touch what we had considered a hopeless tangle is 

 now found to unravel easily, and we are surprised at the wealth of 

 good characters in series which had theretofore been so distressingly 

 similar in appearance that nothing could be done with them. 



Where so much is excellent it is difficult to assign comparative 

 rank to the published work ; but perhaps that on the genera of 

 Carabidse, 1881, may be considered the best. It was certainly in 

 some respects the most thorough, the most revolutionary and the 

 most convincing ; for his conclusions have secured practically univer- 

 sal acceptance. His work on the Silphidre in 1880 while not so 

 brilliant, was even a greater tax on his powers, and I am not certain 

 that he did not himself feel most proud of this. 



It would be a serious omission did I fail to call attention to the 

 fact that many of Dr. Horn's papers are fully and carefully illus- 

 trated with drawings from his own pen and pencil. That same 

 faculty that enabled him to seize the important structural facts in an 

 insect seemed to animate his pencil when he sketched them for the 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



information of others. His drawings could scarcely be called 

 artistic, and were often the merest outlines ; but somehow they 

 seemed to show just what it was intended they should, and if not 

 pleasing to the eye, they were decidedly instructive to the mind. 



Mr. Samuel Heushaw of the Boston Society of Natural History 

 has well expressed a general estimate as follows : " I doubt " — he 

 writes — " if there is an entomologist with the same work to his credit, 

 the same in amount and kind, who has left so little to be set aside or 

 corrected, as will be found to be the case with the work of Dr. Horn." 



Dr. Horn was what may be called a " closet naturalist," although 

 with considerable experience in the field. His work was with dead 

 and dry specimens and, while always interested in life histories or 

 what are now termed biologies of insects, these were secondary. The 

 specimens and the facts they represented were the things, always. 



I do not believe he ever cut a section of an insect in his life and 

 certainly never made use of any in his work. He would, therefore, 

 be condemned as unscientific by those who see no value in work not 

 biographic and those who consider that no sound conclusions can be 

 reached unless a specimen has been elaborately prepared, sliced, 

 stained, mounted and then ideally reconstructed. Yet all these are 

 equally studies of nature and each may be scientific or the reverse. 

 We need all the facts from every point of view and to consider one 

 line of work superior or more essential argues the narrowness of the 

 specialist who sees nothing good except as the result of the method 

 followed by himself. Even the " mere species maker " whom it is 

 at present the fashion to heap with contumely has a right to exist, 

 for without him we could not refer intelligently to the creature 

 whose life history is under consideration or whose parafined corpse 

 is undergoing " microtomy." 



Dr. Horn has shown us by his labors that nature and the manner 

 of nature's work can be as intelligently studied in preserved adult 

 specimens as in any other stage or manner ; and if his work is as 

 well done as I believe it has been, the work of students following 

 other paths will simply confirm his conclusions. 



The aim of the scientific student should be to get at the truth, and 

 all methods of reaching that goal are worthy of consideration. This 

 was the conviction of Dr. Horn himself, and I believe he was right. 

 At all events the contributions made by him to Coleopterology give 

 him an indisputable right to rank with the best that are or ever 

 have been workers in this Order. 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee: — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The average attendance at the meetings of the Academy during 

 the past year has been 25. There has been no occasion of sufficient 

 interest to fill the room and thus raise this average as has usually 

 been the case in former years, while the separation of special inter- 

 ests into Sections, at the meetings of which communications are 

 made, has continued to detract from the interest of the general ses- 

 sions of the Academy, although the cooperation of the Biological 

 and Microscopical Section and, less frequently, that of the Mineral- 

 ogical and Geological Section, have been productive of good re- 

 sults. 



Verbal communications have been made by Messrs. Rand, Sharp, 

 Goldsmith, Pilsbry, J. C. Morris, Carter, Woolman, G. Vaux, Jr., 

 S. Brown, Morsel], Skinner, Chapman, Calvert, Holman, Dixon, 

 Heath, Keely, Conklin, Palmer, Kelly, Mercer, Schaeffer, Frazer, 

 Allen, Peirce, Crawford, Stewart, Reese, C. Morris, Griffiths, Boyer, 

 Wells, Garrison, Sullivan, Mrs. Bladen and Miss Walter. But few 

 of these were reported by their authors for publication and they 

 can, therefore, only be referred to in the written minutes of the 

 Academy. 



Four hundred and eighty-four pages of the Proceedings illustrated 

 by 13 plates, and 144 pages of the Journal with 17 plates, forming 

 the first part of Volume XI, have been issued. As heretofore, we 

 are indebted to Mr. Clarence B. Moore for the beautiful illustra- 

 tions of his interesting paper on the mounds of the Georgia coast 

 constituting the number. 



The Conchological Section has continued the publication of the 

 Manual af Conchology, 288 pages and 51 plates having been pub- 

 lished since the last report, while the Entomological Section and the 

 American Entomological Society have published 539 pages and 15 

 plates in the same period, making a total of 1,455 pages and 96 

 plates added within the year to scientific literature. 



Thirty-eight papers have been presented for publication as fol- 

 lows : H. A. Pilsbry 5, H. A. Pilsbry and E. G. Vanatta 1, H. A. 

 Pilsbry and Benjamin Sharp 1, S. N. Rhoads 5, S. N. Rhoads and 

 Robert T. Young 1, Wm. J. Fox 2, T. D. A. Cockerel! 2, T. D. A. 

 Cockerell and W. J. Fox 1, Witmer Stone 2, Ida A. Keller 2, Per- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



sifor Frazer 2, Frank C. Baker 1, C. B. Moore 1, Marquis de Na- 

 daillac 1, T. Chalkley Palmer 1, Mary A. Schively 1, Charles H. 

 Johnson 1, Harold Heath 1, John Ford 1, Philip P. Calvert 1, E. 

 Goldsmith 1, James E. Benedict 1, John Van Denburg 1, H. Von 

 Ihering 1, Thomas Meehan 1. Of these 27 have been printed in 

 the Proceedings, two in the Journal, while two others have been re- 

 ported on favorably for the Proceedings. One paper has been re- 

 turned to the author, one has been withdrawn by the author, and 

 five are held under advisement. In addition to the above an elabo- 

 rate memoir by the late Edw. D. Cope on the organic remains of 

 the Port Kennedy Cave Deposit, probably the last work completed 

 by the distinguished author, is in the hands of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, and will be presented as soon as means for the required illus- 

 trations can be secured. 



Eighteen members and two correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of ten members and four correspondents have been re- 

 corded, four members have been dropped from the roll for non-pay- 

 menl of dues, and eleven members have resigned, as follows : Arthur 

 A. Bliss, J. S. de Benneville, Jean Fraley Hallowell, Henry T. 

 Coates, Thomas Earle White, M. L. Orum, William Thomson, John 

 Struthers, Edgar W. Earle, Edward C. Kirk and B. W. Griffiths. 



In addition to the other societies heretofore reported as meeting 

 in the Academy, the Philadelphia Branch of the Boston Mycologi- 

 cal Club has been granted permission to hold its sessions in the 

 Council room once a week at an hour not otherwise appropriated. 



The Committee on cheaper rates of postage on natural history 

 material appointed on September 5, 1893, has informed the Acad- 

 emy that its labors have been successful, a proposed modification of 

 the postal laws having been adopted by the Universal Postal Union 

 whereby specimens of natural history are admitted to the mails of 

 the Union at the same rates as samples of merchandise. The Acad- 

 emy is to be congratulated that this very desirable result is due to 

 the efficiency of its Committee, which consisted of Messrs. Calvert, 

 Pilsbry and Woolman. 



An application to the Legislature authorized March 30, 1897, for 

 an appropriation from the public funds toward the furnishing of 

 the new building of the Academy, was productive of absolutely no 

 result. 



The Hayden Memorial Geological Award for 1897 was conferred 

 on Professor A. Karpinski, Director of the Geological Survey of 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Russia. The medal and a draft for the annual interest on the fund 

 were presented to the recipient of the recognition by Dr. Persifor 

 Frazer, the Academy's representative at the 7th International Con- 

 gress of Geologists, at a public session of the Congress. The Acad- 

 emy, as a member of the Congress, will receive its official publica- 

 tions. 



A resolution protesting against the passage of a bill providing 

 for the damming of the Delaware River was adopted March 30th, 

 and transmitted to the Governor of New Jersey, who was not, how- 

 ever, deterred thereby from signing the bill. This and similar pro- 

 tests were heeded by the Legislature of Pennsylvania, and, the meas- 

 ure being defeated at Harrisburg became inoperative, as the two 

 States must agree on any action affecting the Delaware River. 



Three deaths occurring during the year have rendered it sorrow- 

 fully memorable in the history of the Academy. The society has 

 indeed suffered severe loss since 1891, when the death of Dr. Leidy 

 left a vacancy in its working force which has not in any degree been 

 filled. Since then eight members, distinguished as original inves- 

 tigators or able in the administration of its affairs, have died in 

 rapid succession. The most recent of these, Edward D. Cope, Har- 

 rison Allen and George H. Horn, were recognized throughout the 

 scientific world as of eminence in their several specialties, each in 

 his degree added lustre to the work of the Academy, and each left 

 on record substantial evidence of his interest in its welfare. Iden- 

 tified as these distinguished naturalists were with the Academy's 

 activity as an agent of intellectual progress for more than thirty 

 years, the immediate future is not likely to compensate for their 

 loss. 



During the attendance of the Recording Secretary at the Second 

 International Library Conference in London, the duties of the office 

 were satisfactorily performed by Mr. Wm. J. Fox. 



Edward J. Nolan, 

 Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the past year, commencing December 1, 1896, there have 

 been received from one hundred and two societies, museums, libra- 

 ries, etc., one -hundred and ninety-seven acknowledgements of the 

 receipt of publications of the Academy, and from thirty-six societies, 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



539 



libraries, etc., forty-three notices that their publications have been 

 forwarded to the Academy, together with twenty-five applications 

 for exchange of publications and asking for deficiencies. 



Twenty-one letters on various subjects have been received and 

 twenty-six written. Fifteen circulars and invitations to the Acad- 

 emy to participate in Congresses or meetings, and announcements of 

 the deaths of scientific men have been received, and when necessary 

 acknowledged. 



During the year two correspondents have been elected and noti- 

 fied. 



The deaths of the following correspondents have been reported : 



Auguste Louis Brot, of Geneva, Switzerland ; elected in 1887, 

 died August 30, 1896. 



Constantin von Ettingshausen, of Gratz, Austria ; elected in 1859, 

 died February 1, 1897. 



Rev. Samuel Haughton, of Dublin, Ireland ; elected in 1868, died 

 November, 1897. 



Johannes Japetus Smith Steenstrup, of Copenhagen, Denmark; 

 elected in 1878, died June 20, 1897. 



Seven hundred and three acknowledgements for gifts to the 

 library, and one hundred and ten acknowledgements for gifts to the 

 museum have been forwarded. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Ben j. ShaPvP, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The total of additions made to the library of the Academy 

 since the close of November, 1896, is 5,145. Of these 4,476 are 

 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 651 volumes, 15 maps and three 

 photographs. 



They have been received from the following sources : — 



Societies, 2,252 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . 1,244 



Editors, 896 



Authors, 219 



Meigs Fund, 154 



TJ. S. Dept. of Agriculture, 57 



Pennsylvania State Library, 46 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF 



Minister of Public Works, 



France, 11 



U. S. Dept. of Labor, . . 9 



Persifor Frazer • . 8 



Geological Survey of India, 7 

 Geological and Natural 



History Survey, Minn., 7 



Bernard H. Steiner . . 7 



Comite Geologique Russe, 6 



U. S. Treas. Department, 6 



Thomas Meeban, ... 5 

 Department of Mines, New 



South Wales, .... 5 

 U. S. Commission of Fish 



and Fisheries, ... 4 

 Geological Survey of Mis- 

 souri, 4 



East Indian Government, 3 

 Geological Surv. of Canada, 3 

 Geological Survey of Ala- 

 bama, 3 



Ohio State Library ... 3 



Clarence B. Moore ... 3 

 Governor-General, Indes 



Neerlandaises .... 3 



P. P. Calvert 3 



University of Kansas . . 3 

 U. S. War Department, . 2 

 Cal. State Mining Bureau, 2 

 Mass. Commission of In- 

 land Fisheries, etc. . . 2 

 Norwegian Government . 2 

 CongrSs Geologique Inter- 

 nationale 2 



Bentham Trustees, Kew 



Gardens, 2 



Commision Geologica de 



Mexico 2 



S. R. Roberts, .... 2 

 Government of Argentine 



Republic, 2 



2 

 2 

 2 



2 



1 



1 



THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Geological Survey of Iowa 



Mr. Wetherill, . . . 



AY. W. Jefferis, . . 



W. E. Meehan, . . . 



Geological Survey of New 

 York, 



Trustees of the Melbourne 

 Exhibition, 



Geological Survey of Por- 

 tugal, 



L. Voission, .... 



Exposition International 

 de Bruxelles, . 



Department of Mines 

 Nova Scotia, . 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Charles G. Sower, . 



Congres International des 

 Peches Mari times, . 



Benjamin Sharp, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 



Uselma C. Smith, . 



Mrs. Carvill Lewis, 



Wm. J. Fox, .... 



Henry C. McCook, . . 



Geological Survey of Rou 

 mania, 



Lewis Woolman, 



Samuel G. Dixon, . 



Geological Survey of Mary 

 land, 



U. S. Fish Commission, 



Lord Crawford, . 



Adams Memorial Commit- 

 tee, 1 



Committee on Botany, 

 Pennsylvania Pharma- 

 ceutical Association, . 1 



Emil Holub 1 



Lemcke & Buechner, New 



York, 1 



1 

 1 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 



1 



1 

 1 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



These accessions were distributed to the several departments of 

 the library, as follows : — 



Journals, 4,302 



Geology, 181 



Botany, 112 



General Natural History, . 102 



Agriculture, 52 



Entomology, 47 



Anthropology, .... 47 



Mammalogy, 31 



Conchology, 30 



Voyages and Travels, . . 30 



Ichthyology, 25 



Anatomy and Physiology, 23 



Mineralogy, . 

 Physical Science, 

 Ornithology, . 

 Helminthology, . 

 Medicine, . 

 Bibliography, 

 Chemistry, 

 Geography, . 

 Encyclopedias, . 

 Herpetology, . . 

 Miscellaneous, . 



18 



17 



13 



10 



9 



7 



5 



5 



4 



1 



74 



The slight falling off in receipts from the number reported last 

 year is owing to the decrease of appropriations, made necessary by 

 the large expenditures for 1896. To the same cause is due the com- 

 paratively small number of volumes bound, which amounts to only 

 270, a large part of these being credited to the special funds, thus 

 farther curtailing the amount available for the purchase of books. 



In the cases, secured by the removal last year of the stock of pub- 

 lications of the Academy to the basement, have been arranged the 

 books on Physical Science and Anthropology, the latter section of 

 the library being more than doubled by the large collection of val- 

 uable works included in the Meigs bequest. Extensive additions of 

 case room are required in nearly every department of the library, 

 the maintenance of the geographical arrangement of the journals 

 and periodicals being increasingly difficult from year to year. The 

 plan suggested in the last report of arranging journals devoted to 

 special subjects in connection with the special departments of the 

 library, does not seem to meet with the endorsement of those imme- 

 diately concerned, so that no transfers have been made. 



A portrait in oil of the late Professor Edward D. Cope by C. A. 

 "NVorrall, has been procured by subscription and added to the gal- 

 lery. 



The Librarian improved the occasion of his attendance last July 

 at the Second International Library Conference held in London, 

 to inspect the scientific sections of a number of libraries there and 

 elsewhere throughout the United Kingdom, with the result of being 

 able to congratulate the Academy on the extent and convenience of 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



arrangement of its collection of books which in both respects 

 compares favorably with those of much older establishments. In 

 liberality of administration the Academy is especially deserving of 

 recognition, as, apart from the fact that under the By-Laws the 

 books must be consulted on the premises, it places on the reader 

 none of the restrictions almost universally met with elsewhere. 



It is increasingly apparent that the growth and arrangement of 

 the library are seriously interfered with by lack of means. If it 

 were not for the care taken to secure the largest possible return from 

 exchange of publications, the other resources at the disposal of the 

 Library Committee would be entirely inadequate, and the opportu- 

 nity for advanced study in the Academy would be materially cur- 

 tailed. This would be now more than ever the cause of serious re- 

 gret, because the library was never so much resorted to by students 

 of kindred institutions as it has been during the past year. Not 

 only for such readers, but more especially for our own workers, it is 

 essential that the latest scientific. literature be placed promptly on 

 our shelves and in such binding as to make it most convenient of 

 access with the least wear and tear. To secure these ends at least 

 double the income now at the disposal of the Library Committee 

 will be required. 



Acknowledgement is again due Mr. Wm, J. Fox for efficient ser- 

 vice in the library, especially during the Librarian's absence in 

 Europe. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw t ard J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The past year has been characterized by a greatly increased in- 

 terest on the part of the general public in the Academy's Museum, 

 owing to the better facilities for the exhibition of the collections 

 afforded by the new museum building, the opening of which was 

 recorded in our last report. New cases have been placed on the 

 first and second floors of the new building, and much has been ac- 

 complished in perfecting the arrangement of the various collections. 



The Curators are able to report the specimens at the present time 

 in an excellent state of preservation, although the impossibility of 

 the systematic arrangement and proper display of the collections 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



in some departments, owing to the need of cases, seriously affects 

 their examination and use by students. 



The most noteworthy change in the arrangement of the museum 

 during the year has been the transfer of the wall cases on the bird 

 gallery to the basement of the new building, where a commodious 

 storage department has been arranged for the reception of the great 

 bulk of the alcoholic preparations. 



The entire series of fishes and alcoholic mollusca have already 

 been arranged in their new quarters, and are much more accessible 

 to the student, besides being entirely protected from the dampness 

 which, in their old situation, seriously affected the preservation of 

 the labels. 



The entire collection of fishes, numbering upward of fifteen thou- 

 sand, has been catalogued by Mr. Henry W. Fowler, and supple- 

 mentary labels placed inside the jars to ensure the preservation of 

 the data. 



The work of cataloguing and renovating the ornithological col- 

 lection, which has been in progress for several years past, has been 

 brought to completion. 



The remounted exhibition collection is ready for removal to the 

 third floor of the new building, as soon as sufficient cases can be 

 procured. 



A start has already been made in the furnishing of this floor, and 

 one handsome plate-glass case has been placed in position, in which 

 will be arranged a synoptical collection representing the principal 

 orders of birds. 



A similar case has been placed in the Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey room for the accommodation of the Delaware Valley 

 Ornithological Club Collection of local birds with nests and eggs, 

 which is now nearly complete. For the storage of bird skins addi- 

 tional space has been allotted adjoining the room of the Ornitholog- 

 ical Section. 



In the mammal hall attention is called to the group of Alaskan 

 Fur Seals, collected by Dr. Sharp and Mr. J. M. Justice, which 

 has been mounted during the year, and is now displayed in a large 

 plate-glass case. 



Numerous other animals have been mounted by the taxidermist 

 during the past year, all of which maintain the high standard of 

 work which has characterized the specimens prepared for museum 

 exhibition in the past few years. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Foremost among these may be mentioned the Orang Utan, Striped 

 Hyaena, Pacific Walrus, Cheetah and Florida Crocodile. 



In the department of paleontology much valuable work has been 

 accomplished. The large slabs containing the Icthyosauri have 

 been removed from the old vestibule to the entrance of the new 

 Museum on Nineteenth Street, where they can be seen to much bet- 

 ter advantage. 



The collection of vertebrate remains from the Port Kennedy Bone 

 Cave, upon which Professor Cope did his last scientific work, has 

 been displayed in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey Room. The 

 entire collection of American invertebrate fossils has been rear- 

 ranged during the year, and placed in systematic order as regards 

 horizons, while upward of twelve hundred specimens have been 

 cleaned and placed in trays. 



Work on the Isaac Lea Eocene Collection has progressed regu- 

 larly during the year, through the liberality of the Rev. L. T. 

 Chamberlain, D. D. Mr. C. W. Johnson has been engaged in 

 arranging the display collection, which has been increased to fill 

 an additional case provided by Dr. Chamberlain early in the year. 



Mr. Johnson and Mr. Burns have also done a considerable 

 amount of field work which has added richly to the collection. 



Miss Anna T. Jeanes has presented two horizontal oak cases, 

 which have been placed on the first floor of the new museum, in 

 which a synoptical collection of minerals has been arranged for the 

 benefit of students, while a portion of the old collection of minerals, 

 which it is not desired to exbibit, has been stored underneath in the 

 drawers. 



A collection of rocks from Philadelphia and vicinity, selected 

 mainly from the State Geological Survey Collection, has been ar- 

 ranged in the Pennsylvania and New Jersey Room, and a synopti- 

 cal collection of rocks has been arranged in two cases in the old 

 museum, both of which will prove of assistance to students of geol- 

 ogy. 



Four additional cases have been added to the William S. Vaux 

 Collection for the accommodation of exceptionally large crystals and 

 masses of minerals, and an additional case to the Clarence B. Moore 

 Archaeological Collection. Mr. Moore has spent much time in the 

 field during the year, and has added many rare and interesting spe- 

 cimens to this collection. 



The conchological department has continued to increase under 

 the constant care of the professor in that department, and the rear- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



rangement of a considerable portion of the bivalves has been made 

 possible by the removal of part of the minerals from this gallery. 



Besides those already mentioned, there have been numerous large 

 and valuable additions to the museum during the year, as will be 

 seen in the appended list. 



Among them we would call attention to the valuable collection of 

 marine specimens from California, presented by Mr. Harold Heath ; 

 a collection of rocks and birds from South Africa, presented by Dr. 

 Emil Holub, through Mr. H. G. Bryant ; a collection of Coleoptera 

 from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, presented by the Feldman 

 Collecting Social, a collection of African insects and mollusks 

 from Dr. A. Donaldson Smith ; a collection of alcoholic mammals 

 of North America from S. N. Rhoads, as well as the numerous 

 valuable specimens received through the year from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia. The collection of marine invertebrates 

 preserved in formaline has also been increased through the liberal- 

 ity of Mr. F. W. Walmsley. 



Several important improvements in the museum building are also 

 noteworthy, particularly the fitting up of the receiving room at the 

 east end, as an addition to the library and the renovation of the 

 Council Room. 



The Curators have also, during the year, vacated one of the small 

 rooms on the library floor, and have allotted a large space on the 

 basement floor of the new museum for the storage of publications. 



The Curators take this occasion to express their indebtedness to 

 various members and to the Conservators of the Sections, for valu- 

 able assistance in caring for the special collections, particulars of 

 which will be found in their several reports. 



Important assistance has also been rendered by the students of 

 the Jessup Fund. Much assistance has been given to specialists by 

 placing the collections at their disposal, and in addition to the 

 many who have made use of material at the Academy, specimens 

 have been loaned to representatives of various scientific institutions 

 throughout the country, including Anthony Woodward, Henry C. 

 Mercer, T. Wayland Vaughau, Fred'k. A. Lucas, L. M. Under- 

 wood, H. M. Smith, Walter Faxon, C. F. Millspaugh, H. C. Ober- 

 holser, B. L. Robinson, T. W. Stanton, Robert Ridgway and others. 



Henry C. Chapman, M. D., 



Chairman of the Curators. 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The Section has held ten meetings during the past year with 

 slightly increased average attendance. Communications of general 

 interest have been made at each of the meetings, diatoms and 

 bacteriology receiving special attention. 



The Conservator reports the purchase of several new objectives. 

 Donations to the museum were made by Dr. J. C. Morris, and a large 

 aquarium was presented by Mr. Holman. The following commu- 

 nications were made to the Academy : 



"Demonstration of Absorption of Carbon Dioxide and of the 

 Generation of Oxygen by Diatoms," by T. Chalkley Palmer. 



"Dentition of Snails," by Professor Pilsbry. 



" Furs," by Dr. Morris. 



" The Neuron," by Dr. A. O. J. Kelly. 



"Structure of the Diatom Valve," by F. J. Keeley. 



The officers of the Section are as follows : 



Director J. Cheston Morris, M. D. 



Vice-Director, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Conservator, 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Recorder, . 



T. Chalkley Palmer. 

 Charles P. Perot. 

 F. J. Keely. 

 John G. Rothermel. 

 Charles S. Boyer. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The past year has been one of continuous growth in the concho- 

 logical department of the museum, although no one accession of 

 great size has been received. In the arrangement of the collection 

 considerable progress has been made. The bivalves of the families 

 Pholadidse, Teredidse, Myidse, Mactridas, Solenidoe, Donacidse and 

 some allied groups have been transferred from the table cases to the 

 rail cases formerly occupied by minerals, and systematically arranged 

 therein. To the space thus gained, the terrestrial operculates have 

 been transferred, and the species rearranged according to the latest 

 monographs of the several groups. The cases formerly occupied by 

 the operculates, which had long since been outgrown by the increase 

 of the collection, will now be utilized for displaying the Bulimulidse, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



which are at present being monographed in the Manual of Conchol- 

 ogy ; the collection of Helices having extended over the cases for- 

 merly containing Bulimi. 



Other museum work worthy of note has been a thorough revision 

 of the Ampullariidse, Pinnidoe, Pectunculus and Amphidromus of 

 the collection, by Miss J. E. Letson, and a revision of the Arionidie 

 and Cylindrellidse by Mr. E. G. Vanatta and the Conservator. 



The recent and fossil Scaphopoda of our collection have been 

 studied by the Director and Conservator of the Section, and the 

 specimens relabelled ; the results of the study being embodied in a 

 monograph of the group in the Manual of Conchology. 



The entire collection of alcoholic mollusks has been transferred 

 from the mollusk gallery wall cases, to cases erected in the basement 

 of the new building, where they have been arranged in systematic 

 order. 



The routine work of identifying specimens for correspondents has 

 as usual occupied considerable time; but as in former years a large 

 number of species new to science have resulted from the time thus 

 expended. 1,505 lots of specimens from 72 persons have been 

 received, labelled and placed in the collection during the year. A 

 detailed list of accessions will be found in " Addition to the 

 Museum." 



The officers of the Section are as follows : 



Director, ...... Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Vice- Director, 

 Recorder and, Librarian, 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 



. John Ford. 

 . Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. 

 . Chas. W. Johnson. 

 . S. Raymond Roberts. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Henry A. Pilsbry, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Six meetings has been held during the present year. The attend- 

 ance has been good and many interesting and valuable verbal com- 

 munications have been made. The year has been an eventful one 

 in the history of the Section. More commodious quarters have been 

 occupied and work in all of the orders of insects has been consequ- 

 ently stimulated. The collections are in better condition than ever 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



before and they are being well protected against museum pests. The 

 Section has been fortunate in having aid from a number of its 

 members interested in special branches of entomology. Dr. H. G. 

 Griffith has done excellent work in the rearrangement of the exotic 

 Coleoptera and Mr. Gerhard has worked industriously on the Mar- 

 tindale Lepidoptera. A number of valuable collections have been 

 presented and many small lots of insects. These are enumerated in 

 the list of additions to the museum. It is hoped that the display 

 collection in the museum may be rapidly increased for the benefit 

 of the visiting public. So far as the collections for study are con- 

 cerned, little is to be desired, as in a number of the orders we 

 have the finest collections of American species in the world. 



Ten numbers of the Entomological News have been published 

 forming 256 pages and 11 plates. At the meeting of the Section 

 held Dec. 23rd. the following were elected to serve as officers for 

 the coming year: 



Director, Chas. S. Welles. 



Vice-Director, 



Treasurer, 



Conservator and Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Publication Committee, . 



Philip Laurent. 

 E. T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner. 

 Win. J. Fox. 



j J. H. Ridings. 

 1 C. W. Johnson. 

 Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Botanical Section respectfully reports that 

 though the work of the Section has had to be performed almost 

 wholly by the volunteer labors of its members, the general progress 

 of the year has been satisfactory. Much valuable assistance could 

 have been secured in the distribution of various collections awaiting 

 their final arrangement, if the extra rooms had been fitted with the 

 cases referred to in the Conservator's report to the Section which is 

 appended as part of this document. The cost of mounting speci- 

 mens has been defrayed by the Academy. 



Our late lamented fellow member, John H. Redfield, knowing 

 that the time must surely come when the Herbarium and its work 

 would retrograde without the services of a salaried Curator, left his 

 herbarium and library to the Section to be sold for the nucleus of a 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



fund, the interest of which should go to the care and increase of the 

 collection of plants. These have been disposed of, the Herbarium 

 being secured for $1,700 by the Missouri Botanical Garden, and the 

 books sold at auction. The fund will be known as the Redfield Me- 

 morial Herbarium Fund. The investment now made will yield a 

 small income next year, which will help in the purchase of new col- 

 lections. No attempt has been made the past year to add to the 

 fund, as it was not thought wise to interfere with the applications of 

 the Academy for aid in other directions. 



The Section is free from debt, and has a small balance in its 

 treasury. 



The officers for the ensuiug year are : 



Director, . Thomas Meehan. 



Vice- Director, ..... Charles E. Smith. 



Conservator and Treasurer, . . Stewardson Brown. 



Recorder, . . . . . Chas. Schaffer, M. D. 



Corfesponding Seci'etary, . . Jos. D. Crawford. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Director. 



Report of the Conservator. — Notwithstanding the disadvantages 

 under which the Botanical Department has had to work, the result 

 for the past year has been fully up to those preceding. 



The mounting of the collections has been steadily carried on 

 through the untiring efforts of the Director of the Section, and is 

 now completed up to Gentianacere. It is hoped to have them all 

 properly arranged by the end of the next season. 



The Lewis and Clark Collection has been carefully examined by 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan and Professor B. L. Robinson of Harvard College. 



There is every reason to expect that before the next report shall 

 be made, the much needed cases for accommodation of the rapidly ac- 

 cumulating material will have been secured. The accessions of the 

 year are recorded in the list of additions to the Museum. 



I wish to congratulate the Section on the good work of the year, 

 and to thank all those who have contributed to its performance. 



Stewardson Brown, 

 Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOG- 

 ICAL SECTION. 



Ten meetings of the Section have been held during the year with 

 an average attendance of more than nine members. 

 36 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



An active interest has shown itself at the meetings, communica- 

 tions having been made by many of the members and by visitors. 

 Of these may be mentioned several on geology, especially of the 

 vicinity, on the composition of soils, on a new mineral called Tri- 

 saltite by Mr. Goldsmith, on glacial striae and rubbings made from 

 them, and on a large deposit of corundum, in gneissoid or granitic 

 rocks in Ontario. 



Two successful excursions were enjoyed by the Section : one on 

 May 27th to Media, Mineral Hill, and the Sharpless quarry and the 

 other on October 23rd to the quarries, etc. near Avondale, Chester Co. 



The Officers of the Section are as follows : — 



Director, ...... Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice-Director and Conservator, . . Wm. W. Jefferis. 



Recorder, ...... Charles Schaffer. 



Treasurer, . John Ford. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



It is gratifying to be able to report the completion of the work of 

 renovating the mounted collection of birds in the museum of the 

 Academy. This work was begun in 1892 and has progressed steadily 

 ever since, though press of other museum work has often occasioned 

 delay. As finally catalogued the collection, of practically the same 

 extent as at the time of the death of Dr. Thomas B. Wilson, numbers 

 24,492 specimens. 



Of this number 15,000 duplicates, including the types, have been 

 unmounted and placed in tight cabinets, while the remaining series 

 of 10,000 specimens has been arranged systematically in the large 

 exhibition cases on the old Ornithological Gallery. The improve- 

 ment in the appearance of the collection is marked and the reduc- 

 tion in the number of the specimens exhibited makes it possible to 

 dispense entirely with the old wall cases in which the specimens 

 were so much in danger from mold and dampness. 



The labelling, except in the case of some of the larger birds, has 

 been restricted to group or family labels. The cards are so quickly 

 spoiled by dust in the old cases that it has been considered best to 

 defer the general labelling until new cases are provided and the col- 

 lection is removed to the new Museum building. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



All the specimens are numbered to correspond with the catalogue 

 and all data have been preserved on the bases of the stands. 



The Conservator is now engaged in a careful study of the numer- 

 ous type specimens contained in the collection, the results of which 

 will be published in the Proceedings of the Academy, so that the im- 

 portant facts relative to this famous collection may be properly pre- 

 served. 



During the past year the completion of the work above described 

 has involved the remounting of 500 specimens, the writing of 2,000 

 labels and the entry of 5,000 specimens in the permanent catalogue. 



Besides this the entire collection was rearranged in the exhibition 

 cases to bring it into proper sequence. 



The Section's quarters have been still further enlarged by the 

 allotment of additional space on the floor adjoining its room to 

 accommodate the additional cases of skins. The whole study-series 

 has been carefully examined and found to be in excellent condition. 



The accessions for the year comprise an important collection of 

 North Carolina birds presented by Robt. T. Young, a small collec- 

 tion of African species from Dr. Emil Holub and numerous spec- 

 imens received from the Zoological Society. The Delaware Valley 

 Ornithological Club has also added many rare and artistic groups of 

 nests and eggs to the collection of Pennyslvania and New Jersey 

 birds, and by its meetings at the Academy, has been instrumental 

 in keeping up a live interest in this branch of science. 



The Stone Collection of Pennyslvania and New Jersey birds 

 numbering upward of 2,000 skins has been received on deposit and 

 is at the disposal of students who may desire to consult it. 



In reviewing the work of the year the Conservator wishes to ex- 

 press his acknowledgment of the valuable assistance rendered by 

 Mr. Henry W. Fowler. 



At the annual meeting of the Section held December 20, 1897, the 

 following officers were elected : — 



Director, .... 

 Vice- Director, . 



Recorder, 

 Secretary, 

 Treasurer and Conservator, 



Spencer Trotter, M. D. 

 George S. Morris. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 William A. Shryock. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Wither Stone, 



Conservator. 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



KEPORT OF THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Five meetings have been held during the past year, at which 

 communications were made by Prof's. Brinton, Allen, and Culin, and 

 a special communication on " Primitive Transportation," by Prof. 

 Otis T. Mason, of the National Museum, Washington, D. C. A 

 committee was appointed to consider the question of obtaining space 

 in the old museum hall for the collection of crania possessed by the 

 Academy. Mr. John G. Rothermel was elected Treasurer, to suc- 

 ceed Dr. M. V. Ball, resigned. The death of Dr. Harrison Allen 

 left vacant the Directorship, which office he has filled since the or- 

 ganization of the Section. At the December business meeting a 

 quorum was not present, and the annual election could not he held, 

 the officers of the Section being continued until the next meeting. 

 The office of Director remains vacant. 



Charles Morris, 



Bocorder. 



REPORTS OF THE PROFESSORS. 



Angelo Heilprin, Professor of Geology, reports that the 

 work in his department during the past year has been confined 

 mainly to its educational aspect. The regular spring course of in- 

 struction was comprised in twenty-six lectures and eight field dem- 

 onstrations, the attendance at which, while smaller than in the cor- 

 responding period of the year before, was sufficient to indicate a 

 live interest in geology and an appreciation of the opportunities that 

 were offered for practical study. As in previous years a large part 

 of the classes was composed of school teachers. A special course of 

 six lectures was delivered under the auspices of the Ludwick Insti- 

 tute in November and December, with the largest attendance yet 

 secured in the Academy, the record showing an average of 163 for 

 each lecture. 



The condition of the collections in the department of geology re- 

 mains unchanged. There is a deficiency of case-room, and imme- 

 diate relief can hardly be looked for. Some rearrangement of the 

 collections has been made under the direction of the Curators, both 

 in the old and in the new museum buildings, but a large part of the 

 specimens must still be placed in the drawers of the cases. 



Additions to this department of the Academy's museum, and 

 notably to the affiliated department of paleontology, have been re- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



ceived from various sources, a number of them from former students 

 of the courses of geology. While the generous gift of the late Prof. 

 E. D. Cope does not strictly concern the department of geology, as 

 defined by the By-Laws, a reference to it cannot be omitted. Prof. 

 Cope's collections are not only a monument to the indomitable en- 

 ergy aud scientific devotion of a master of his specialty, but of the 

 utmost importance to the student of vertebrate paleontology. The 

 collections should be secured for the Academy, to which they have 

 been virtually proffered, and with which the name of the deceased 

 has been most intimately associated. 



Daniel G. Brinton, M. D., Professor of Ethnology and 

 Archaeology, reports that during the spring of 1897, a course of 

 free public lectures was delivered by him in the lecture hall of the 

 Academy on the recent advances in the science of anthropology. 

 The lectures were well attended, and an increased popular interest 

 in this branch was manifest. 



The anthropological collections of the Academy have been ar- 

 ranged in mostly new cases and exposed to public view in a favor- 

 able portion of the recently constructed addition to the Academy 

 building. The number of visitors who give attention to this portion 

 of the collections of the Academy show that it is one in which the 

 general public is much interested. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D., Professor of Invertebrate Zool- 

 ogy, reports that during the past year he delivered two courses, one 

 of ten and the other of six lectures, upon invertebrate zoology, 

 under the auspices of the Ludwick Institute, and one lecture in the 

 Friday Evening Course on " The Sea and its Influence upon Animal 

 Life." 



The additions to the museum have not been extensive, the most 

 important being the collection of invertebrates made by the Alas- 

 kau and Siberian Expedition. 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Professor in the Department of Mol- 

 lusca, reports that he has delivered two courses of lectures upon 

 Malacology during the year. 



Several reports upon particular groups of mollusks, both recent 

 and fossil, based upon material in the collection of the Academy 

 have been prepared and published in the Proceedings, together with 

 others based upon material sent for investigation from abroad. Pro- 

 gress has been made in the classification and arrangement of the 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



collection, the details of which may be found in the report of the 

 Conservator of the Conchological Section. 



Henry Skinner, M. D., Professor in the Department of 

 Insecta, reports fully on the condition of the entomological collec- 

 tions, his statements being included in the report of the Entomologi- 

 cal Section. He will deliver six lectures in the Academy's Lud- 

 wick Institute Course early in the coming year. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



555 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee to serve during 1898, was held with the following re- 

 sult : — 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three years, 



Finance Committee, 



Councillor for unexpired term 

 of two years, 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 



Thomas Meehan. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



George Vaux, Jr. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Henry A. Pilsbry. 



Henry C. Chapman, M. D. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 



Charles P. Perot. 



C. Newlin Peirce. 



Theodore D. Rand. 



Philip P. Calvert. 



Charles Morris. 



Chas. E. Smith. 



Uselma C. Smith. 



William Sellers. 



Charles P. Perot. 



Charles H. Cramp. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1897. 



MEMBERS. 



January 26. — William Biddle Cadwalader, Charles J. Pennock. 



February 28. — Thomas H. Montgomery. 



March 30.— Bartram W. Griffiths, E. T. Stotesbury, Robert K. 

 McNeely, Louis Weber, M. D. 



April 27. — Henry Brinton Coxe, Ferdinand Philips, Eckley 

 Brinton Coxe, Jr. 



May 25. — Sager Chadwick. 



June 29.— Alonzo H. Stewart, M. D., Chas. E. De M. Sajous, M. D. 



September ^.—Thomas H. Conarroe, M. D., G. A. Muller,Kath- 

 erine Muller. 



October 26. — Daniel Baugh. 



November SO. — J. Wain Vaux. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



May 25. — Alexander Karpinski of St. Petersburg, Russia. 

 November 30. — Fridtjhof Nansen of Christiania, Norway. 



COUNCIL AND STANDING COMMITTEES FOR 1898. 



COUNCIL. 



Officers. — Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., Thomas Meehan, Rev. Henry 

 C. McCook, D. D., Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Benjamin Sharp, M. D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry C. Chapman, M. D., 

 Arthur Erwin Brown. 



To serve Three Years. — Charles P. Perot, C. Newlin Peirce, 

 Theodore D. Rand, Philip P. Calvert. 



To serve Two Years. — Thomas A. Robinson, Charles H. Cramp, 

 Charles Morris, Isaac J. Wistar. 



To serve One Year. — Uselma C. Smith, Charles E. Smith, John 

 Cadwalader, William Sellers. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Finance. 



Uselma C. Smith, Charles Morris, Charles E. Smith, William 

 Sellers, Charles P. Perot. 



Publications. 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, Henry A. Pilsbry, Henry 

 Skinner, M. D., Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Library. 



Charles P. Perot, Arthur Erwin Brown, Thomas A. Robinson, 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D., Dr. C. Newlin Peirce. 



Instruction and Lectures. 



Uselma C. Smith, Benj. Smith Lyman, Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., 

 Philip P. Calvert, Samuel N. Rhoads. 



Committee of Council on By-Laws. 



Isaac J. Wistar, Theodore D. Rand, Arthur Erwin Brown and 

 Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



MAMMALS. 



Dr. Thos. Biddle. Tardus fuscus dissected, in alcohol. 



Henry G. Bryant. Skin of marmot, Alaska. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Two specimens of Pteropus in alcohol. Em- 

 bryos of Macropus and Cants dingo, dissected specimens in alcohol 

 of Loris gracilis, Galago crassicaudata, Omithorhynchus and Nyctecebus 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Lepus aquations, Alabama, (mounted). 



Dr. Emil Holub. Mounted Jerboa and Jackal and eight skulls of 

 mammals, South Africa. 



Dr. W. E. Hughes. Atalapha borealis (mounted). 



Medico-Chirurgical College. Two skulls and odd bones of Elephant. 



Purchased by subscription. Male Orang Utan ( Simla satyrus) lived in 

 the Zool. Society's Garden, Nov., 1893 to Nov. 1, 1897, mounted 

 Nov., 1897. 



S. N. Rhoads. Collection of 60 jars of alcoholic mammals from N. 

 America. Specimens of Lepus sylvatlcus, New Jersey (mounted). 

 Slgmodon hispidus floridanus (mounted). Three foetal Lynx rufus, 

 Clinton Co., Pa. 



R. T. Young. Skin and skull of Fiber zibethicus. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. The following mammals which 

 have been prepared as indicated. Mounted : Crab-eating Raccoon 

 Procyon cancrivorus, Gazella muscatensls <j> ; Sacred Monkey, Semno- 

 pithecus entellus ; Dusky Monkey, Semnopithecus obscurus ; Cheetah, 

 Cynselurus jubatus $ ; Campbell's Monkey, Cercopithecus cart ip belli; 

 Striped Hyaena, Hyxna striata ; Black Macacue, Macacus maurus 9 ', 

 Striped Wallaby, Macropus dorsalis 9 ; Coati, Nasuanasua; Carib- 

 bean Seal, Monachus tropiealis ; Ocelot, Felis p>ardalls ; Bengal Cat, 

 Felis bengalensls ; Brush-tailed Wallaby, Petrogale penicillata : also, to 

 be mounted, Young Elk, Cervus canadensis; Fallow Deer, Cervus 

 dama $ . Red Kangaroo female with young, Macropus rufus. 



Skins. Black spider Monkey, Sapagou vellerosus ; Prairie Dog, Cyno- 

 mys ludovicianus ; Two Common Seals, Phoca vitullna; Common 

 Paradoxure, Paradoxurus; Brown Capuchin, Cebusfatuellus ; Monkey 

 (sp. undet. ) ; Javan Civet, Viverra tangalunga, Barbary Ape, Maca- 

 cus inuus. 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Osteological preparations. Skulls of all the mounted animals and 

 skin specimens ; also of Young Camel, Camelus sp. ; Prong-horned 

 Antelope, Antilocapra americana. 



Disarticulated Skeletons of Pronghorned Antelope, Antilocapra amer- 

 icana; Two Gillespie's Seals, Zalophus californianus ; Indian Buffalo, 

 Bos buffelm ; Coon-like Dog $ , Canis procyonoides ; Brush-tailed 

 Wallaby, Petrogale penicillata ; Rhesus Monkey, Macacus rhesus; 

 Javan Civet, Viverra tangalunga; Two Caribbean Seals, Monachus 

 tropicalis ; Monkey (sp. undet. ). 



Rough Skeletons. Chamois, Rupicapra tragus ; Indian Buffalo, Bos 

 buffelus ; Camel, Camelus dromedarius. 



Birds. 



H. L.Albright. Three specimens of Loxiacurvirostra minor, Lycom- 

 ing Co., Pa. (skins). 



Henry G. Bryant. Olor columbianus (mounted) and skin of Uria 

 mandti. 



H. R. Deacon. Urinator imber, Seaville, N. J. (skin). 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Collection. Fifteen nests and 

 sets of eggs of Pennsylvania and New Jersey birds and twenty 

 mounted birds presented by members of the Club. Nest of Yellow- 

 billed Cuckoo, {Coccyzus americanus) from Mrs. Edw. Robins, 

 Goshawk, Accipiter atricapillus from Chas. A. Shriner ; Wood Ibis 



{Tantalus loculator), from Dr. Park P. Breneman. Gannet (Sula 



bassana) S. B. Irwin and J. H. Cullin. 

 Dr. Emil Holub. Ten mounted specimens of South African Birds and 



three skulls. 

 R. B. Long. Mounted specimen oiBubo virginianus. 

 Leander Rogers. Specimen of Ardea herodias (skin). 

 Babu H. Sukhi. Chicken with four legs. 

 H. Van der Wielen. Two skins of Bicknell's Thrush (Turdus alicias 



bicknelli ) . 

 Visitor. Specimens of Cardinalis cardinalis and Fringilla coslebs. 

 H. W. Warrington. Mounted specimen of Cathartes aura, H addon- 

 field, N. J. 

 H. W. Wenzel. Skin of Piranga rubra from Philadelphia. 

 W. C. Wetherill. Egg of Tinamou. 

 R. T. Young. A collection of skins of North Carolinian birds. Four 



skins of Parus hudsonicus, Nova Scotia ; skin of Sterna hirundo, 



Prince Edward Island. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. The following birds which have 



been prepared as indicated. Mounted: Carpophaga paulina ; Skele- 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



ton, Olor buccinator, Grus stanleyi; Skull and Sternum, Ciconia 

 nigra, Phasianus reevesi ; Skin, Garrulax picticollis, JRhamphastos dis- 

 colorus, Garrulus glandarius, Trupialis defiMppi, Polytelis melanurus, 

 Nucifraga caryocatoctes, Branta bernicla. 

 Ardea virescens caught in Logan Square (mounted). 



Keptiles. 



Dr. Harrison Allen. Three jars of Reptiles. 



Dr. Thos. Biddle. Ophibolus doliatus, Pennsylvania. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. Eutsenia vagrans and two specimens of Scelo- 



porus consobrinus. 

 Dr. H. C. Chapman. Dissection of Sphenodon punctatus. Carapace 



and plastron of Chelopus insculptus. 



Edw. D Cope. Collection of reptiles from Vera Cruz, Mexico. 



Chas. E. Ridenour. Three young Anacondas. 



F. W. Walmsley. Ophibolus getulus and doliatus, New Jersey. 



H. W. Wenzel. Pseudemys rugosa, Philadelphia. 



Lieut. H. L. Willoughhy, U. S. N. Crocodilus americanus, Florida 



(mounted). 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Two specimens of Xiphosoma rus- 



chenbergeri. 



Fish. 



Dr. Harrison Allen. Specimens of Echelus conger. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Dissection of Squalus, Astroscopus anophis, two 



young Cyclopterus, Polypterus bichir. Skeleton of the head of Lop- 



hius piscator. 

 D. Morgan Eldridge. Head of Rabbit-fish (Lagocephalus). 

 Wm. Ellis. Two specimens of Zoarces anguillaris. 

 W. J. Fox, Series of Fundulus, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 Harold Heath . Large series of fishes from Pacific Grove, California. 

 Dr. C. P. Henry. Puffer fish (Tetradon), dried. 

 Mrs. Tiel. Specimen of Cyclopterus lumpus. 



Insects. 



Dr. A. Donaldson Smith. 207 Orthoptera, 130 Diptera, 262 Hemi- 

 ptera, 4 Coleoptera, 31 Neuroptera, 77 LepidojDtera, 160 Hymeno- 

 ptera, all from N. E. Africa. 



Feldman Collecting Social. Sixteen boxes of Coleoptera, containing 

 656 genera, 1,326 species, numbering 3,823 specimens. 



Dr. Henry Skinner. Five hundred and ninety-six exotic butterflies. 



C. H. Hutchinson. Seventy -two butterflies mounted on plaster 

 tablets. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



G. F. Russell. Two hundred specimens, various orders, collected in 



U. S. of Columbia. 

 Prof. Ellison A. Smyth, Jr. Six exotic butterflies. 

 Dr. Jos. H. Eomig. Twenty Alaskan butterflies. 



Recent Mollusca. 



T. H. Aldrich. Goniobasis from Tallapoosa river, Alabama. Four 

 species land shells from Sumatra. 



Mr. C. F. Ancey. Helix subaperia, from Algeria. 



E. H. Andrus. Five fresh-water species from Oregon. 



J. S. Arnheim. Thirteen species shells from California and Alaska. 



IN. T. Bednall. Acanthochites variabilis from Australia. 



W. G. Binney. Prophysaon and Hesperarion from California, 



Frank Burns. Glandina truncata from Gregg's Landing, Fla. 



Mr. F. L. Button. Four species land and freshwater shells, from Cali- 

 fornia. 



E. B. Chope. Land shells from Florida. 



George Clapp. Polygyra profunda and exoleta from Virginia. Poly- 

 gyra devia var. Clappi from Idaho. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Four species land shells from California and New 

 Mexico. 



H. S. Conrad. Helix nemoralis, New Jersey. 



J. C. Cox. Thirteen species of Ischnochiton and other marine shells 

 from Australia. 



W. H. Dall. Nomina diadema Dall from Malay Peninsula. 



Dr. Dolley. One species Tethys, from Bahamas. 



Bernard L. Douredoure. Cyprxa and Umbonium. 



Mrs. H. E. Dwight. Dentalium sericatum. 



J. H. Ferriss. Sixty-three species land shells from Tennessee. 



John Ford. Abnormal form of Cyprasa lynx from Singapore ; Cerion 

 Fordii, from Bahamas ; Littorina palliata, Greenwich Bay, R. I. 



Henry W. Fowler. Unio complanatus. 



Mr. Gaines. Nassa, from Tango, Japan. 



Mrs. E. M. Gaylord. Ariolimax and Purpura from Oregon. 



G. H. Gude. Vitrea alliaria. Mull. 



Wilfred H. Harned. Polygyra albolabris, Lycoming Co., Pa. and 

 Pearls from Ostrsea. 



Harold Heath. Thirteen jars alcoholic mollusks from Mazatlan, Mex. 

 and Monterey, Cal. 



Charles Hedley. Three species from Australia. 



Miss E. J. Letson. Sixty-three land and fresh-water species from 

 Buffalo, N. Y. 



Mr. H. N. Lowe. Four species from California, 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



J. G. Malone. Limax, Prophysaon, etc. from Oregon. 

 William A. Marsh. Two species ofUnio from Texas. 



E. H. Matthews. Acanthochites asbestoides from South Australia. 



H. C. Mercer. Three species land and fresh-water shells from Tenn- 

 essee. 



T. L. Montgomery. Eulota similar is from Bermuda. 



Clarence B. Moore. Pecten nodosus from Georgia. 



Wm. Moss. Thysanophora bactricola from Trinidad. 



N. S. Olliver. Helix hortensis from Nantucket. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Fifty-two species American land and fresh -water shells. 



P. B. Randolph. Prophysaon, etc. from Washington, 



S. N. Rhoads. Thirteen land and fresh-water species from Tenn- 

 essee. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Eighteen species marine shells from New Zea- 

 land. Four land and fresh-water species from Tasmania and Japan. 



Dr. W. H. Rush. Eighty-eight species shells from South America 

 and Cape Verde Is. 



G. F. Russell. Collection of shells from British Guiana. 



F. A. Sampson. Planorbis opercularis from San Francisco, Cal. 

 Morris Schick. Carychium exile from Philadelphia. 



Dr. Benj. Sharp. Ninety species marine mollusks from Alaska and 



Siberia. Four species from Leipzig, Germany. 

 Erwin F. Smith. Limax agrestis from Washington, D. C. 

 Herbert H. Smith. Sixteen species, West Indian and South American 



land shells. 

 U. C. Smith. Limax variegatus, from Philadelphia, and marine shells 



from the New Jersey coast. 

 Mrs. C. G. Sower. Thirteen species of shells from Italy. 

 Dr. V. Sterki. Sixty -four species, Ohio, land and fresh-water shells. 

 Witmer Stone. Dentalium longitrorsum Rve. and other shells. 

 Prof, de la Torre. Five species Cerion from Cuba. 

 United States National Museum. Cyclomorpha flava Brod. from 



Tahiti. 



E. G. Vanatta. Forty-three species of land and fresh-water shells. 

 H. D. Van Nostrand. Donacilla picta from Japan. 



A. Vayssiere. Ten species of Chitons from France. 

 C. H. Walker. Lyogyrus Brownii from Chelsea, Mass. 



F. W. Walmsley. Numerous mollusks preserved in formaline. 

 H. W. Wenzel. Two species from Pa. and New Jersey. 



Wm. Wharton. Ampidlaria reflexa from Carthagena. 

 J. J. White Sunetta and Pectunculus from Ceylon. 

 Lewis Woolman. Anodonta fluviatilis Dillw. 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Yucatan and Mexican Expedition. Twenty-four species marine mol- 

 lusks. 



Lower Invertebrates. 



Harold Heath. Collection of Invertebrates, Pacific Grove, Cal. 



David Milne. Star-fish. 



Dr. W. H. Rush. Eight trays of dried Crustacea. 



G. F. Russell. Three jars of invertebrates. 



W. L. Savage and others. Squilla empusa, Cape May, N. J. 



Witmer Stone and F. H. Brown. Collection of marine Invertebrates, 

 N. J. coast. 



F. W. Walmsley. Collection of various marine Invertebrates, pre- 

 served in formaline. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



H. W, Bishoff. Orthoceras, Dauphin Co., Pa. 



A. P. Brown. Collection of Invertebrate fossils from Kansas, 



S. H. Hamilton. Cretaceous fossils from Salem, N. J. 



Wilfred Harned. Two specimens of Hemiaster. 



Mr. and Mrs. R. T. Hill. A collection of Invertebrate fossils from 



various localities. 

 Dr. Emil Holub. Fossil mollusca from Hungary. 

 H. C. Mercer. Collection of fossil mollusca from Virginia. 

 Edw. D. Ross. Nine trays of Invertebrate fossils, from New South 



Wales. 

 Thomas Sheehan. Specimens of Calymene, Lake drainage excavation, 



Chicago. 

 Uselma C. Smith. Collections of Invertebrate fossils from Wilkes- 



barre, Pa., and Lenola, N. J. 

 Rev. H. H. Thomas (in exchange). Devonian fossils from New York. 

 S. Tyson. Specimen of Calymene, Chicago. 



Plants. 



Stewardson Brown. One hundred and sixty species of North Amer- 

 ican Plants. 



George M. Beringer. Specimen of Rhexia aristosa. 



Dr. Henry C. Chapman. Habenaria orbiculata Torr. and Habenaria 

 bracteata Br. s 



Joseph Crawford. Two hundred and fifty species of North American 

 Plants. 



Herbarium of Harvard University. Two hundred species of North 

 American Plants. 




1897.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



W. W. Jefferis. Five species of North American Plants. 



Thomas Meehan. Two hundred and twenty -five species of South 

 African Plants collected bj r Schlichter, two hundred species of Asia 

 Minor Plants collected by Bornmuller, five hundred species of South 

 American Plants collected by Rusby, twelve species of North Amer- 

 ican Plants. 



Miss Piert. Specimens of Brodica capitata. 



Silas L. Shumo. Twenty-five species of Pacific Coast Algae. 



United States Department of Agriculture. Two hundred and fifty 

 species of North American Grasses. 



United States National Museum. Nine species of North American 

 Plants. 



Miss Mary Vaux. Specimen of Larix lyelii. 



Newlin Williams. Specimen of Euphrasia officinalis. 



Lewis Woolman. Specimen of Berberis napensis and Vaccinium Penn- 

 sylvanicum. 



Minerals, Rocks, Etc. 



E. C. Atkinson. Large collection of minerals. 



•Clarence Bement, in exchange. Two meteorites. 



H. H. Bisling. Mineral fragments, Wyoming. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Series of wooden models of crystals. 



E. D. Cope. Box of rocks, Missouri. 



W. C. Desmond. Collection of Minerals. 



E. Goldsmith. Specimen of Carborundum. 



W. W. Jefferis. Diaspore ; Gold ore, Canada ; Rhombohedral Quartz, 



Amethyst. 

 S. H. Hamilton. Specimen of Marble. 

 Wilfred Harned. Pictou Coke. 

 Dr. E. Holub. Series of specimens of earth and rock from the 



diamond diggings of South Africa. 

 W. T. Merrick, Box of rock specimens, Blossburg, Pa. 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section. Malachite, Montgy. Co., Pa. 



Contorted Gneiss, Delaware Co., Pa. Several large rock specimens. 

 Theo. D. Band. Altered diorite, Staurolite in mica schist. 

 Jacob Beese. Box of Carborundum. 



J. E. Richardson. Limonite pseudomorph after Pyrite ; Molybdenite. 

 Edw. D. Ross. Six specimens of Ore, Broken Hill Mine, New South 



Wales. 

 Thos Sheehan. Dredgings, Lake drainage excavation, Chicago. 

 Witmer Stone. Several rock specimens from vicinity of Philadelphia. 

 S.Tyson. Three species of minerals. Two specimens Cuprite. 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1897. 



Purchased for the Wm. S. Vaux collection during the year 110 

 specimens. 



Archaeology. 



H. Burcam. Arrow Head, Tennessee. 



H. H. Bisling. Arrow Head, Wyoming. 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Arrow Head, Floyd Co., Ga. 



Dr. H. C. McCook. Toy Eskimo Sled, Greenland. 



Clarence B. Moore. Large collection from the mounds of Georgia. 



J. D. Reed. Arrow Head. 



Sydney Sharp. South African Shield. 



Curwin Stoddart. Japanese, Storm Coat. 



John H. Weeks. Arrow Head. 



Miscellaneous. . 



J. Dundas Lippincott. Case of Microscopical Slides. 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



565 



INDEX TO GENERA, ETC., 

 1897. 



Abra 293 



Abramis 59 



Abudefduf 116 



Acanthopsis 60 



Acanthorhodeus 58 



Acanthurus 126 



Achatina 357 



Achirus 133 



Actinolite 441 



Actobatis 428 



Adelonycteris .... 33, 224 



Adeorbis 363 



jEschynite 437 



iEsopia 90 



^Etobatus 93 



Agenia 235-241, 252 



Agonostomus 98 



Albula 67, 94 



Albulidse 94 



Alectis 101 



Almandine 418, 442 



Alosa 63 



Alutera 127 



Amethyst 438 



Ammophila 373 



Amnicolida? 481 



Amphacanthus 79 



Amphibole 437, 442 



Amphibolite 418 



Ampulex 373 



Analcime 446 



Anarcestes 427 



Ancistromma 137 



Ancylus 298 



Andrena 351 



Angelichthys 125 



Anguilla 93 



Anguillidse 93 



Anisotremus 110 



Anolis 460 



37 



Anoplius 236 



Anorthite 429 



Anthias ... 75, 104, 106, 107 



Anthracosidse .... 455, 456 



Apatite 437 



Apios 304 



Apistus 81 



Apocryptes 87 



Apsilus 108 



Archsediseus 417 



Arehosargus 112 



Arctomys 29, 30, 215 



Arissema 162, 163 



Aristozoe 426 



Arius 57 



Arseniosiderite 438 



Arundinaria 304 



Artemon 477 



Asbestus 441 



Asbolan 144 



Asplenium 427 



Astarte 411 



Astatus 138 



Atalapha 33, 224 



Atherina . . . . 64, 87, 95, 98 



Atherinidae 98 



Atrypa . . . 426, 445, 447, 449 



Aucella 455 



Augite 443 



Aulostomidse 97 



Aulostomus 97 



Awaous 132 



Axinite 442 



Baculites 427 



Baileya 355 



Bairdiella 115 



Balanus 332, 333 



Balistes 79, 126, 127 



Balistidee 126 



Bascanion 463 




100 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Bathvstoma 110 



Begonia 190, 191 



Belemnitella 427 



Belemnites 456 



Bellerophon 410, 411 



Bellis 201 



Belone 69, 97 



Bembidula 383 



Beryl 437, 438 



Bigelovia 139, 140 



Biotite 418, 429, 437 



Bison 207, 483, 502 



Blarina . 32, 214, 223, 304, 



310, 311 



Blenniidse 133 



Bodianus 104 



Boleophthalmus 87 



Boltonia 192 



Bos 486-500 



Bostrichthys 84 



Bostrychus 69, 84 



Bothynostethus 379 



Botroclonium 428 



Brachydeuterus 110 



Brachygenys 110 



Buchiola 414 



Bulimulidse 10 



Bulimulus 10, 18-21 



Cadoceras 456 



Cadulus 467, 472-474 



Calamus Ill 



Calcite 435 



Calicurgus 279, 280 



Calidrfe 368 



Calliopsis 348-350 



Callisaurus 461 



Calyculina 291 



Calymene 447 



Calyptrsea 329, 330 



Camarophoria 410 



Cancrinite 437 



Canis 31, 220 



Carangidse 72, 100 



Caranx .... 72, 73, 100, 101 



Carassius 58 



Carcharias 56 



Cardioceras 407 



Cardium .... 329, 330, 409 



Carya 188 



Cassia 196-198 



Castor 29, 210 



Centaurea 192 



Centris 355 



Centropomidae 103 



Centropomus 103 



Centropristis 106, 108 



Centurio 509 



Cephalacanthida? 132 



Cephalacanthus 132 



Cepola 87 



Cepolidse 87 



Cepolis 10 



Ceratina 351 



Ceratodus 455 



Cerion 19, 365-367 



Ceropales 229 



Cervus 25, 207 



Cetengraulis 96 



Cruetodipterus 123 



Chsetodon, 78, 103, 116, 123, 124 



CheetodQntidae 123 



Chseturichthys 86 



Channa 69 



Chanodichthys 59 



Chatoessus 62 



Chilomycterus 131 



Chilopsis 138 



Chinochlore 442 



Chiolite 437 



Chlarias 57 



Chlorichthys 119 



Chlorion 375 



Chlorite 435 



Chloroscombrus 101 



Chsetetes 427 



Chonetes 417, 449 



Chromis 117, 118 



Chromite 429 



Chrysanthemum 201 



Chrysophrys 76 



Chrysopsis 192 



Cirsium 192 



Citrus 174 



Clarias 57 



Cleome 348 



Clinus 133 



Clupanodon 94 



Clupea .... 63, 64, 66, 94 



Clupeidse 94 



Cnemidophorus 463 



Cobitidse 60 



Cobitis 60 



Coilia 66 



Coleonyx 460 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



567 



Collichthys 77 



Oompressidens 472 



Columbite 437 



Concinnum 456 



Condylura 32, 223 



Congrus 61 



Conocardium 414 



Conodon 110 



Corbicula 409 



Corbnla 294, 295, 363 



Cosmoceras 456 



Cornus 186-188, 190 



Corundum 429, 437 



Corvina 76, 115 



Coryphasna 122, 133 



Crabro 387, 388 



Crassatella 295 



Crotaphytus 461 



Cryolite 437 



Cryptochiton 299-302 



Cryptotsenia 177 



Ctenosaura 461 



Culius 132 



Cyanite 438 



Cyathophyllum 449 



Cybium 72 



Cyclas 291, 292 



Cymbidium 184 



Cymbium 100 



Cynoglossus 88, 89 



Cynoscion 114 



Cypbaspis 414 



Cypbonyx 265 



Cyprsea . , 32S 



Cyprina 428 



Cyprinidae 57 



Cyprinus 57 



Cyrthia 449 



Dahlia . . . 201 



Dardania 361 



Dasyatidse 56, 93 



Dasyatis 56, 57, 93 



Decapterus 72, 100 



Dentalium .... 465-472, 474 



Dentex 76 



Desmine 437 



Diabasis 109 



Diacope 74 



Diamond 429 



Diapterus 113 



Didelpbis .... 24, 207, 311 

 Digitalis 193 



Diodon 130 



Diodontidse 130 



Diodontus 141 



Diorite ... .... ... 420 



Dipogon 241 



Disthene ... ... 429, 442 



Ditrupa 475 



Dorcelaphus ... 25, 208, 311 



Dormitator 132 



Dorosoma 62, 63 



Dorosomatidse 62 



Drepane 78 



Drepanidse 78 



Drymseus 22 



Du'les 106 



Eatoniella 360, 480 



Echeneididse 132 



Echeneis 132 



Edotea 391-403 



Eteolite 437 



Eleotris 84, 132 



Elephas 483 



Eleutheractis 107 



Elopidse 63, 94 



Elops 94 



Embolite 438 



Engraulididse 64, 95 



Engraulis 64, 65, 95 



Entomis 445, 447 



Ephippidse 123 



Epidote . . . 418, 435, 437, 442 

 Epinephelus ... 73, 104, 105 

 Episiphon . . . , . . . . 465 



Eques 116 



Equula 73 



Erethizon 210 



Eriphyla 295 



Ervthronium 161, 162 



Esocidse 69, 97 



Esox 94, 97, 98 



Essonite 442 



Estheria 427, 455 



Eucinostomus 113 



Euclase 438 



Eudotbyra 417 



Eunotia 144 



Euomphalus 445 



Eupomacentrus 116 



Entomis 426 



Evotomys . 27, 206, 211, 212, 214 



Feldspar 419 



Felis 32, 222 




568 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Fiber 27, 212, 309 



Fistularia 70 



Fistulariidre 70 



Fluorite 437 



Fragaria 335 



Fraxinus 188 



Furcaria 117 



Fusulina . .' 410 



Fusulinella 417, 449 



Fusus 428 



Gadus 473 



Galeidte 56, 91 



Galeocerdo 428 



Gambusia 97 



Garnet 418, 429, 437 



Gasterosteus . . . .82, 103 



Gastrioceras 427 



Gehyra 460 



Gerres .... 76, 113, 114 



Gerridre 76, 113 



Gesneria 173 



Gilia 178 



Ginglymostoma .... 91 

 Ginsrlvmostomatidse ... 91 



Glaucosoma 74 



Gleditschia . . . 175, 198, 199 



Gobiidfe 84, 132 



Gobioides 87 



Gobiomorus 132 



Gobius 85, 86, 132 



Gorytes . . 139-141, 380-382 



Grammistes 116 



Graphite 437 



GrindeHa 350 



Griinwaldtia 426 



Gryphea 427 



Gymnocephalus .... 104 



Gymnothorax 94 



Haemulidee 75, 109 



Haemulon 109 



Hali stylus 298 



Hamulus 475 



Hapsidophrys 464 



Harpe 118 



Harpodon 67 



Helianthus .... 193, 201 



Heliases 117 



Helicella 359 



Helicida? 11 



Heliophytum . . . 169, 170 

 Heliotropium .... 169-172 

 Helix 10, 19 



Helvine 437 



Hematite .... 417, 429 

 Hemiramphidse . . . 69, 97 



Hemiramphus .... 97 



Hercynella 415 



Hippocampus .... 98 



Holaeanthus 125 



Holbrookia 461 



Holocentrida? 99 



Hole-centrum 99 



Holocentrus . ... 75, 99 



Homo 224 



Hoplites .... 406, 407 



Hydrangea 286 



Hydrobia .... 361, 409 



Hyperaulax 10 



Hypericum . . 181, 182, 183 



Hypnum 304 



Hypophthalmichthys . . 60 



Hypoplectrus 106 



Hyporhamphus ... 69, 97 



Hypsiglena 464 



Idotea 389 



Iguana 461 



Ilex 304 



Umenite 429, 437 



Iniistius 78 



Isodontia 375 



Jacosta 359 



Jeffreysia 360 



Juncus .... 25, 29, 304 



Kolreuteria 203 



Labeo 58 



Labradorite 440 



Labridag 78, 118 



Labrisomus 133 



Labrus .... 104,107, 109 



Lachnolaimus . . . . 118 



Lactophrys 128 



Lactuca 192 



Lagocephalus . . . . 81, 128 



Lamium 175 



Lamna 428 



Larrea 355 



Lasionycteris 224 



Lateolabrax 73 



Lauricochse 292 



Leiognathidse 73 



Leiognathus 73 



Lejeania 359 



Leperditia 414 



Lepidodendron .... 427 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



569 



25, 209, 



31, 218, 



Lepidotrigla 

 Leptocephalidaj 

 Lepua . . 

 Lethrinus ■ . 



Leuciscus 59, 



Liatris . 



Lilium 



Lima 



Limicolaria 



Limonacanthus .... 



Lingula 428, 



Liriodendron . . . 202, 



Lissoacme 



Listvenite 



Lobotes 



Lobotidse 



Lonicera .... 284, 



Lophiidse 



Lophiomus 



Lophius 90, 



Lutianidae 74, 



Lutianus 



Lutjanus 



Lutra 



Lutraria 



Lycium 



Lycodontis 



Lynx 32, 221, 



Maclura 



Macrodium 



Macronyx 



Macropteronotus .... 

 Magnetite . . . 437, 441, 

 Magnolia . . . 193, 202, 



Malacanthidse 



Malacanthus 



Malachite 



Mai aconite 



Martite 437, 



Mastacembelus .... 



Meekella 



Megalops 63 



Megellania .... 329, 



Melichthys 



Mentieirrhus 



Mephitis 31, 



Merista 



Mesodesma 



Mesoprion 74, 



Miassite 



Microcline .... 437, 

 Micropogon 



83 



61 

 305 



76 



60 

 192 

 172 

 428 

 358 

 127 

 454 

 203 



19 

 441 

 112 

 112 

 285 



90 



90 

 133 

 107 



74 

 107 

 311 

 293 

 348 



93 

 311 

 175 

 411 

 146 



57 

 444 

 203 

 133 

 133 

 444 

 437 

 444 



69 

 410 



94 

 330 

 126 

 116 

 219 

 447 

 293 

 108 

 436 

 442 

 115 



Micropteryx 101 



Microtus 26, 212, 304, 306-308 



Misgurnus 60 



Modiola 428 



Molybdenite 437 



Monacanthidse .... 80 



Monacanthus 127 



Monacite 437 



Monazicoid 437 



Monedula 383 



Monopteridse 61 



Monopterus 61 



Monticocerus 427 



Moringua 62 



Moringuidaa 62 



Mugil 70, 98 



Mugilidae 70, 98 



Mulgedium 192 



Mullidse 71. 99 



Mulloides 72 



Mnllus 72, 99 



Mursena 61, 93 



Murrenesocidse . . . 61, 93 

 Mursenesox .... 61, 93 



Mursenichthys 61 



Muraenidge 93 



Murchisonia 445 



Mus 28, 215, 310 



Muscovite .... 418, 429 



Mustek 218 



Mutilla 137 



Myceteroperca .... 105 

 Mygnimia .... 275, 276 



Myliobates 428 



Myliobatidse 93 



Myridae 61 



Mystus 66 



Nacella 329 



Nsesiotes 18 



Narcine 92 



Narcobatidee 92 



Natrix 464 



Nautilus 410 



Neomaenis .... 107, 108 



Neopetraeus 22 



Neotoma ... 28, 211, 214 



Nepheline 437 



Neptunea 428 



Novacula 78 



Notidanus 428 



Notocyphus . . . 229, 233 

 Notogonia 230 




570 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Nycticejus 224 



Nysson 379 



Ocinebra 296 



Ocyurus ...... 108 



Odontoscion 115 



Ogcocephalidse .... 133 

 Ogcocephalus .... 133 

 Olcostephanus . . . 406, 407 

 Oligodon .... 455, 456 



Oligoplites 100 



Oncidium 1S4 



Ophichthus .... 62, 93 

 Ophichthyidse . . . . 62, 93 



Ophichthys 62 



Ophicephalida? 69 



Ophicephalus 69 



Ophisurus 62, 93 



Opisthonema 94 



Oppelia 456 



Opuntia 190 



Orthis .... 427, 447, 449 



Orthite 437 



Orthoceras .... 410, 411 



Orthoclase 443 



Orthose 437, 438 



Osmerus 67 



Osmia 334-346 



Ostraciidse 128 



Ostracion 128 



Ostrrea 329, 330 



Otodus 428 



Otolithus 114 



Oxalis 161, 162 



Oxybelns ....... 386 



Oxynoticeras . . . 407, 455 



Pagellus Ill 



Pagrus 76 



Palaeoanodonta . . 455, 456 

 Palaaomutela . . . 455, 456 



Pal&eoniscidae 4.").") 



Paralichtiiys 87 



Parascalops 223 



Parophrys 88 



Passaloecus 141 



Pavia 188 



Pecten 329, 330 



Peltandra 164 



Pentamerus 414, 420, 426, 



427, 445, 447 



Pentstemon 173 



Pepsis 280-283 



Perca .... 99, 104, 109 



Percolabrax 73 



Perdita 353-355 



Perideris 503 



Perisphinctes 456 



Peromyscus 27, 212, 304, 



306, 309-314 



Pterometopon 104 



Phacops 427 



Phaius 184 



Pharmacosiderite .... 438 



Phenacite 437 



Philypnus 132 



Phlox 178, 180, 181 



Photinula 329 



Phyllodactylus .... 460 



Phyllotheca 427 



Pinna 330 



Pisidium 291, 292 



Pisodonophis 62 



Pistacite 442 



Plagioclase . . . 437, 438, 443 



Plagioptycha 10 



Plagusia 89 



Planiceps 261-263 



Platessa 88 



Platinum 429 



Platophrys 133 



Platycephalidse .... 82 



Platycephalus 82 



Platyceras 415 



Platysomus 101 



Pleurodonta 10 



Pleuronectes 90 



Pleuronectidse . . . .87, 133 

 Pleuronichthys .... 88 

 Pleurotomaria . . 427, 445, 447 



Podium 373 



Poeciliidse 97 



Polycaulus 81 



Polydactyly .... 71, 98 

 Polynemidse ... . 71, 98 

 Polynemus . . . . 71, 98 

 Pomacanthus .... 124, 125 

 Pomacentridae . . . 77, 11(5 



Pomacentrus 77 



Pomadasis 75 



Pompilus . . . 242-259, 265 



Potamopyrgus 361 



Pouschkinite 442 



Priacanthidse . . . .74, 107 



Priacanthus 74, 107 



Priocnemis 266-275 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



571 



Prionace 

 Priononyx . 

 Prionobutis 

 Prionotus . . 

 Pristigaster . 

 Pristopoma . •. 

 Procyon . . . 

 Prodozamites . 

 Productus 408, 



Promicrops 



Pronorites 



Protocardium . 



Psammobia 



Psen .... 



Pseudagenia . 



Pseudorhombus 



Pterois . . 



Pteromys 



Pteropodidse 



Putorius . 



Pyrgopolon 



Pyrochlore . 



Quartz 



Quartzite 



Quercus 



Rabdionite . 



Rachycentridae 



Rachycentron 



Raia 



31, 219, 



410, 411, 

 417, 427, 



235, 



315 



31, 217, 310, 



418, 429, 435, 

 . . . 418, 

 . . . 192, 



Raja 



Reithrodontomys . . 804, 



Remora 



Rhinobatida3 



Rhinobatus 



Rhinolophidae 



Rhinus 



Rbomboplites 



Rhombus 87, 



Rhus 



Rhynchonella 



Rhypticus .... 106, 



Rissoa 



Rissoina 



Rissoininae 



Rubus 



Rutile 



Salangichthys 



Salangidae 



Salanx 



Salius 263- 



Salix 



56 

 378 



84 

 132 



64 



75 

 310 

 427 



449 



105 



427 



456 



428 



378 



236 



88 



82 



-324 



36 



311 



475 



437 



437 



422 



196 



444 



103 



103 



93 



93 



309 



132 



91 



91 



36 



10 



108 



103 



203 



426 



107 



360 



360 



481 



335 



437 



67 



67 



67 



-276 



193 



Salmo 96 



Samarskite 437 



Sardinella 63, 94 



Sardinia 94 



Saurida 68 



Saurus 6S 



Scalops 32, 222 



Scalpellum 332 



Scapheutes 380 



Scapolite 437 



Scaridae 119 



Scarus 119, 121 



Scatophagidae 79 



Scatophagus 79 



Sceliphron .... 373, 374 



Sceloporus 461-463 



Schistose 418 



Schizodus 411 



Schwagerina . . . 410, 416 



Sciadopitys 190 



Scisena ... 75, 76, 103, 132 



Sciamidae 76, 114 



Sciuropterus 31, 206, 217, 



311, 314-326 

 Sciurus .... 30, 216, 310 



Scoliodon 91 



Scomber 72, 73 



Scomberomorus ... 72, 99 

 Scombridse .... 72, 99 



Scorpaena 131 



Scorpaenidae . ... 81, 131 



Selene 101 



Semele 293 



Serpulidae 474 



Serranidae 73, 104 



Serranus 78 



Setipinna 66 



Sibon 464 



Siderite 417 



Siganidae 

 Siganus . 

 Sillaginidae 

 Sillago . 

 Silphium 



... 79 

 ... 79 



... 87 

 ... 87 

 178, 191, 192 



Siphostoma 97 



Siluridaa 57 



Sodalite 437 



Soleidaa 88, 133 



Solenius 388 



Sonchus 192 



Sorex .... 33, 223, 304, 311 

 Sparidaa 76, 111 




572 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Sparis 107, 



Sparisoma . . . 119, 120, 



Sparus 76, 



Sphseralcea 



Sphserophthalma 



Sphene 



Spheroids 129, 



Sphex 375- 



Sphyrsena 



Sphyrna 



Sphyrnidse 



Spirifer, 410, 417, 420, 426, 

 427, 445, 447, 



Spiriferina 



Spirorbis 158- 



Sporus 



Squaliobarbus 



Squalus 56, 



Staurotide 



Stigmaria 



Stigmus 



Stizus 



Stolephorus . . . .64, 95, 



Streptaxidse 



Streptaxis 477- 



Streptorhynchus 



Stromateidse 73, 



Stromateoides 



Stromateus 73, 



Strombus 



Strophomena 



Sturnella 146- 



Sturnus 



Syacium 



Syenite 



Sympholis 



Symphurus 



Synagris 



Synanceia 



Synaptomys, 25, 26, 211, 304- 



Synaptura 



Syngnathidee 



Syngnathus 



Synhalonia .... 347, 



Synidotea 



Synodontidse . . . 67, 



Sy nodus 



Syringopora 



Tachysurus 



Tamias 30, 



Taimcctum 



109 



121 



107 



352 



135 



437 



130 



378 



98 



91 



91 



449 



410 



159 



104 



59 



91 



415 



427 



379 



383 



96 



477 



479 



449 



103 



73 



103 



290 



426 



152 



146 



133 



436 



463 



133 



76 



81 



■307 



90 



97 



97 



348 



389 



96 



96 



427 



57 



215 



192 



Taraxacum 335 



Tarpon 94 



Tarsius 34-55 



Tatea . . . 360-362, 480, 481 



Taxodium 190 



Telara 66 



Tentaculites 427 



Tetradon 81 



Tetraodon 81 



Tetraodontidse . . . .81, 128 



Tetrodon 128 



Teuthididae 126 



Teuthis 79, 126 



Therapon 75 



Theraponidse 75 



Thracia ■ 292 



Thrissa 64 



Thryssa 64, 65 



Tillandsia 314 



Titanite 437, 442 



Topaz 437, 438 



Torpedo 92 



Tourmaline .... 415, 437 



Trachicephalus 81 



Trachinocephalus . . .68, 96 



Trachinotus 103 



Trachinus 104 



Trachurops .... 73, 100 



Trachypus 379 



Triacanthidse 79 



Tritenophorichthys ... 85 



Triienopogon 85 



Trichirus 100 



Trichiuridse 100 



Trichiurus .... 72, 100 



Trichosoma 64, 65 



Trichiuridse 72 



Trigla 83, 132 



Triglidee 83, 132 



Trigonopsis 373 



Trimorphodon 464 



Triphasia 175 



Tritonidea 297 



Trophon 329, 330 



Trygon 57, 93 



Trvpauchen 87 



Trvpoxylon .... 383-386 



Tschewkenite 437 



Turbonilla 296 



Turritella .... 329, 330 



Tylosurus .... 69, 97 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



573 



Ulrema 113 



Ulmus 185 



Umbrina 115 



Upeneoides 71 



Upeneus 99 



Uralite 437 



Uranoscopidae 82 



Uranoscopus ...... 82 



Uroconger 61 



Urocyon 31, 220 



Urolophus 93 



Urosalpinx 297 



Ursus 31, 220, 311 



Uta 461 



Uvularia 285 



Vanilla 184 



Vespertilio . . . . 33, 227, 228 



Vesperugo 224 



Vesuvianite 442 



Vlasta 415 



Vomer 101 



Vulpes 31, 220 



Xenocypris 59 



Xyrichthys 78 



Xystsema 113 



Yttrotantalite 442 



Zapus 28, 29, 211 



Zeus 101 



Zircon 429, 437 



Ziziphus 190 




574 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1897. 



Additions to the Museum, 557. 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. , Observa- 

 tions on Tarsius fuscus, 34. 

 Premolars and form of Skull, 

 145. Announcement of death 

 of, and minute of appreciation, 

 458. Minute from Anthropo- 

 logical Section, 481. Compara- 

 tive measurements of Skulls, 

 482. Proceedings of a meeting 

 in commemoration of, 505. 



Anthropological Section, report 

 of, 552. 



Banes, Charles H. , announcement 

 of death of, 11. 



Bement, William B. , announce- 

 ment of death of, 356. 



Benedict, James E. A revision of 

 the Genus Synidotea, 356, 389. 



Biddle, George W., announce- 

 ment of death of, 288. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of, 546. 



Botanical Section, report of, 548. 



Boyer, Charles, S. Report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 546. 



Brinton, Daniel G. , M. D. Dr. 

 Allen's contributions to Anthro- 

 pology, 522. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Ethnology and Archae- 

 ology, 553. 



Brown, Stewardson. Report of 

 Conservator of Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 548. 



Calvert, Philip P. The North 

 American species of Argia (Or- 

 der Odonata), 331. Odonata 

 (Dragonflies) from the Indian 

 Ocean and from Kashmir col- 



lected by Dr. W. L. Abbott, 



481. 



Campbell, John H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 11. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Re- 

 port of Curators, 542. 



Claus, Karl, announcement of 

 death of, 167. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. New and lit- 

 tle known North American Bees 

 313, 334. New and little known 

 bees from Washington State, 

 459. 



Cockerell, T. D. A., and Wm. J. 

 Fox. New fossorial Hymenop- 

 tera from New Mexico, 134, 

 135. 



Committees, Standing, 556. 



Conchological Section, report of, 

 546. 



Cope, Edward D., announcement 

 of death of and minute of ap- 

 preciation, 166. Vertebrate re- 

 mains from the Port Kennedy 

 Bone Deposit, 288. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of, 538. 



Curators, report of, 542. 



Dall, W. H. Synopsis of the re- 

 cent Psammobiidee of North 

 America, 480. 



Elections during 1897, 555. 



Entomological Section, report of, 

 547. 



Ettingshausen, Constantin von, 

 announcement of death of, 167. 



Ford, John. Cyprsea lynx deform- 

 ed by disease, 313, 328. 



Fox, William J. Contributions to 

 a knoweldge of the Hymenop- 




1897.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



575 



tera of Brazil, No. 2 — Pompili- 

 da3 (Plate IV), 166, 229. Con- 

 tributions to a knowledge of the 

 Hymenoptera of Brazil, No. 3 

 — Sphegida?(sens. lat.), 356, 373. 



Frazer, Persifor. Geological Sec- 

 tion from Moscow to Siberia 

 and return, 356, 405. 



General Index, 574. 



Goldsmith, Edward. Volcanic 

 rocks of Mesozoic age in Penn- 

 sylvania, 356. The Petrefaction 

 of Bones, 480. 



Haughton, Rev. Samuel, an- 

 nouncement of death of, 480. 



Hayden Geological Memorial 

 Award, report on, 167. 



Heath, Harold. External features 

 of young Cryptochiton (Plate 

 VIII), 168, 299. 



Heilprin, Angelo, report of Pro- 

 fessor of Geology, 552. 



Horn, George H., M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, and 

 minute of appreciation, 459 ; 

 Biographical notice of, 515. 



Index to Genera, 565. 



Johnson, Charles W. Diptera col- 

 lected by Dr. A. Donaldson 

 Smith in Somaliland, Eastern 

 Africa, 145. 



Jordan, David Starr and Cloudsley 

 Butter. A collection of fishes 

 made by Joseph Seed Roberts in 

 Kingston, Jamaica, 91. 



Karpinski, A. Receipt of Hayden 

 Medal, 167. Biographical notes, 

 167, 288. 



Keller, Ida A. Notes on under- 

 ground Runners (Plate III), 

 145, 161. Notes on Plant Mon- 

 strosities (Plate V), 166, 284. 



Librarian, report of, 539. 



Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, 549. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions 

 to the life histories of Plants — 

 No. XII, 169. The plants of 

 Lewis and Clark's Expedition 

 across the Continent during the 

 years 1804-1806, 459. Report 

 of Botanical Section, 548. 



Moore, Clarence B. Certain ab- 

 original mounds of the Georgia 

 coast, 313. 



Morris, Charles. The Primeval 

 Ocean, 12. Report of Anthro- 

 pological Section, 552. 



Nadaillac, Marquis de. Inhuma- 

 tion and incineration in Europe, 

 134, 313. 



Nolan, Edw. J. , M. D. Biograph- 

 ical notices of Harrison Allen 

 and George Henry Horn, 505. 

 Report of Recording Secretary, 

 536. Report of Librarian, 539. 



Officers, Councillors and Members 

 of the Finance Committee, 555. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 

 550. 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. Demonstra- 

 tion of the absorption of carbon 

 dioxide and the generation of 

 oxygen by diatoms, 134, 142. 



Pilsbry, H. A. The affinities of 

 the Floridian Miocene Land 

 Snails, 10. The Gastropod Rad- 

 ula, 11. Description of new 

 South American Bulimuli, 18. 

 New species of Mollusks from 

 Uruguay (Plates VI and VII), 

 168,290. New Achatinidaa and 

 Helicida' from Somaliland, 288, 

 357. New Australian Mollusks 

 (Plate IX), 329, 360. Patago- 

 nian Tertiary fossils, 329. Scal- 

 pellum and Balanus from Texas 

 332. New Brazilian Streptaxidse 

 458, 477. Description of two 

 new forms of Perideris, 480, 

 503. Additional note on the Gas- 

 tropod Genus Tatea, Tenison- 

 Wood, 480. Report of Concho- 

 logical Section, 546. Report ot 

 Professor of Malacology, 551. 



Pilsbry, H. A. and Benj. Sharp. 

 Scaphopoda of the San Domin- 

 go Tertiary (Plates X and XI), 

 356, 465. 



Pilsbry, H. A. and E. G. Van- 

 atta. Description of two new 

 species of Cerion, 331, 365. 

 Anatomical notes on certain 

 western American Helices, 480. 




576 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1897. 



Price, J. Sergeant, announcement 

 of death of, 331. 



Proceedings of a Meeting held in 

 Commemoration of Harrison 

 Allen, M. D., and George Henry 

 Horn, M. D. , 505. 



Professors, reports of, 552. 



Rand, Theodore D. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 549. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 

 536. 



Report of Anthropological Sec- 

 tion, 552. 



Report of Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 546. 



Report of Botanical Section, 548. 



Report of Conchological Section, 

 546. 



Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 538. 



Report of Curators, 542. 



Report of Entomological Section, 

 547. 



Report of Librarian, 539. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 549. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 

 550. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 

 536. 



Reports of Professors, 552. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. A contribu- 

 tion to the mammalogy of 

 northern New Jersey, 9, 23. A 

 contribution to the mammalogy 

 of Central Pennsylvania, 166, 

 204. A new southeastern race 

 of Little Brown Bat, 166, 227. 

 A revision of the west American 

 Flying Squirrels, 313, 314. 

 Notes on living and extinct spe- 

 cies of North American Bovi- 

 dse (Plate XII), 458, 483. Dr. 

 Allen's zoological work, 518. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. and Robert T. 

 Young. On a collection of 

 small mammals from north- 

 eastern North Carolina, 288, 

 303. 



Rutter, Cloudsley. A collection of 

 fishes obtained in Swatow, 

 China, by Miss Adele M. Fielde, 

 56. 



Schively, Mary A. The anatomy 

 and development of Spirorbis 

 borealis (Plates I and II) 134, 

 153. 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Report 

 of Corresponding Secretary, 

 538'. Report of Professor of In- 

 vertebrate Zoology, 553. 



Skinner, Hemy, M. D. Report 

 of Entomological Section, 547. 

 Report of Professor of Insecta, 

 554. 



Smith, John B. Dr. Horn's con- 

 tributions to Coleopterology, 

 529. 



Standing Committees, 556. 



Steenstrup, J. J. S., announce- 

 ment of death of, 333. 



Stone, Witmer. The Genus Stur- 

 nella, 145, 146. The annual 

 molt of the Sanderling, 332, 

 368. Report of the Ornithologi- 

 cal Section, 550. 



Van Denburgh, John. Reptiles of 

 Sonora, Sinaloa and Jalisco, 

 Mexico, with description of a 

 new species of Sceloporus, 356, 

 460. The Gerrhonotus of the 

 San Lucan Fauna of Lower 

 California, with diagnoses of 

 other west American species, 

 480. 



Von Ihering, H. Contributions 

 to the herpetology of San Paolo, 

 Brazil.— I, 356. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE IX. 



PILSBRY. NEW AUSTRALIAN MOLLUSKS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE X. 



P1LSBRY AND SHARP, SCAPHOPODA OF SAN DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE XI. 



11 



mm 



mm mm 



m i* - m 



22 



PILSBRY AND SHARP. SCAPHOPODA OF SAN DOMINGO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1897. 



PLATE XII. 



RHOADS ON AMERICAN BOVID^. 





PROCEEDINGS 



^tdM|g of patina! JpmtM* 



PHILADELPHIA 



1897. 



PART I, JANUAR Y, FEBR UAR Y and MARCH, 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D , 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1897. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ten volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1896. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part to subscribers, and to others 

 $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. ATI contains " The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL. D. 



The First Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Academy, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to mem- 

 bers, and to the public, $36. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately , and to the public $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, (of 

 which twenty-six volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1896), is published at $5 per annum to 

 subscribers, payable in advance ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8 vo. Containing 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixe'd. 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 6S colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations of 



all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. 8. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., 



with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored plates, 



$25 ; with plain plates, $19. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonyms of the Species of Strepomatid* (Melanians) of the United States. By Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of the Memoirs and Dates 



of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, 



$2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited by 



Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With Index, 



Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic Plates. 



$60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers— All the publications of the Academy will be supplied to Book- 

 sellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 Logan Square, 



April, 1897. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia intrust the sum of $2,500 to be known as 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her 

 husband, the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. Ac- 

 cording to the terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of 

 the interest arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the 

 best publication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences 

 of geology and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof 

 as may be designated. The award and all matters connected there- 

 with are to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appro- 

 priate manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 






CONTENTS. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. The Affinities of Floridian Miocene Land Snails. 10 



Pilsbry, Henry A. The Gastropod Radula. 11 



Morris, Chari.es. The Primeval Ocean 12 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Descriptions of New South American Bulimuli. . 18 

 Rhoads, Samuel N. A Contribution to the Mammalogy of Northern 



New Jersey 23 



ALLEN, Harrison, M. D. Observations on Tarsius fuscus. ... 34 

 RuTTER, CloudslEY. A Collectiou of Fishes obtained in Swatow, China, 



by Miss Adele M. Fielde 56 



Jordan, David Starr and Cloudesly Rutter. A Collection of Fishes 



made by Joseph Seed Roberts in Kingston, Jamaica. , . 91 

 CocKERELL, T. D. A. and Wm. J. Fox. New Fossorial Hymenoptera from 



New Mexico 135 



Palmer, T. Chalkley. Demonstration of absorption of Carbon Dioxide 



and of the Generation of Oxygen by Diatoms 142 



Stone, WiTMER. The Genus Sturnella .146 



Schively, Mary A. The Anatomy and Development of Spirorbis borealis. 



(Plates I and II) 153 



KELLER, Ida A. Notes on Underground Runners. (Plate III). . . 161 




PROCEEDINGS 



Iratlenii of ^atural Jffetttt* 



PHILADELPHIA 



1897. 



PART II, APRIL-SEPTEMBER. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D , 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 



- 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1897. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ten volume? and Volume XI. part 1. of the New Series of tbe Journal (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1 S it 7 . The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part 

 to subscribers, and to others $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains " The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, IS17 to 1S42, in eight volumes octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public. $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Academy, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to mem- 

 bers, and to the public. $36. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately , and to the public $.">.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, (of 

 which twenty-six volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1896), is published at $5 per annum to 

 subscribers, payable in advance ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchologv. lStio-71. Seven vols., 8 vo. Containing 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set; Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at tbe prices affixed. 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations of 



all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted. $20 : colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., 



with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored plates, 



$25: with plain plates, $19. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonyms of the Species of Strepomatid.b (Melanians) of the United States. By Geo. 



W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of the Memoirs and Dates 



of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper. $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geq. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, 



$2; paper, si. 75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited by 



Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With Index, 



Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic Plates. 



$60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers--AU the publications of the Academy will be supplied to Book- 

 sellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 Logan Square. 



October, 1897. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Pubtd. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia intrust the sum of S2,o00 to be known as 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her 

 husband, the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. Ac- 

 cording to the terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of 

 the interest arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the 

 best publication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences 

 of geology and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof 

 as may be designated. The award and all matters connected there- 

 with are to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appro- 

 priate manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



Cope, Edward Drinker, resolutions on death of 166 



Hayden Geoeogicae Memoriae Award, Report of Committee on . 167, 288 

 Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life History of Plants, No. XII. . 169 

 Rhoads, SamuEE N. A Contribution to the Mammalogy of Central Penn- 

 sylvania. ............. 204 



Rhoads, SamuEE N. A New Southeastern Race of the Little Brown Bat. . 227 

 Fox, Wieliam J. Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of 



Brazil, No. 2.— Pompilidae. (Plate IV) 229 



KEEEER, Ida A. Notes on Plant Monstrosities. (Plate V) 284 



PiESBRY, Henry A. New Species of Mollusks from Uruguay. (Plates VI, 



VII). . • 290 



Heath, Haroed. External Feathers of Young Cryptochiton. (Plate VIII). 299 

 Rhoads, Samuee N. and Robert T. Young. Notes on a Collection of Small 



Mammals from Northeastern North Carolina 303 



Rhoads, SamuEE N. A Revision of the West American Flying Squirrels. . 314 



Ford, John. Cyprcea lynx deformed by disease 328 



Piesbry, Henry A. Patagonian Tertiary Fossils .329 



Piesbry, Henry A. Scalpellum and Balanus from Texas. . . . . 332 



CockerELE, T. D. A. New and Little-Known North American Bees. . 334 




PROCEEDINGS 



t t t 



Iradcnig of ^atttral ^neares 



PHILADELPHIA 



1897. 



FART III, OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., George H. Horn, M. D, 



Henry Skinner, M. D. 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



1898. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ten volumes and Volume XI, part 1, of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1897. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part 

 to subscribers, and to others $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains *' The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Lbidy, M. D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1812, in eight volumes octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Academy, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to mem- 

 bers, and to the public, $36. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately , and to the public $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, (of 

 which twenty-six volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1896), is published ai $5 per annum to 

 subscribers, payable in advance ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2,500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $40 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $6 each. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed. 



Structural and Systematic Conchology: An Introduction to the Study of the Moll usca. 

 By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 1200 pages, 140 plates, describing and illustrating the recent 

 and fossil genera. A conchological text-book. Cloth, $6.00. 



Manual of Conchology. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., continued by Henry A. Pilsbry. A 

 complete, fully illustrated monography of recent mollusks. Series I, Cephalopoda, 

 Scaphopoda, Amphineura and Marine Gastropoda ; 17 volumes (finished). Series II, 

 Terrestrial Mollusks, 11 volumes published. Series III, Marine Bivalves, to be com- 

 menced in 1898. Plain edition, per part, $3.00, per volume, $12.00; colored edition, 

 per part, $5.00, per volume, '$20. 00 ; tine edition, heavy plate paper, plates in dupli- 

 cate, colored and India tinted, per part, $8.00, per volume, $32.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 6S colored plates. By Thomas Say. 

 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollosca of the United States. With illustrations of 

 all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 

 plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. 



Monograph of the Fresh-Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 

 Haldeman, 1840-44, continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Many colored 

 plates. Prices for the continuation : fine edition duplicate plates, $14.00 ; with col- 

 ored plates, $8.00 ; with plain plates, $6.00. 



Synonymy op the Species of Strepomatid,e (Melanians) of the United States. By Geo. 

 W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $1 ; paper, $0.50. 



List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of the Memoirs and Dates 

 of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $1 ; paper, $0.50. 



Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, 

 $1 ; paper, $0.50. 



Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited by 

 Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $1.00. 



Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With Index, 

 Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic Plates. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers— All the publications of the Academy will be supplied to Book- 

 sellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 Logan Square. 



February, 1898. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia intrust the sura of $2,500 to be known as 

 the Hayden Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her 

 husband, the late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. D., LL. D. Ac- 

 cording to the terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of 

 the interest arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the 

 best publication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences 

 of geology and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof 

 as may be designated. The award and all matters connected there- 

 with are to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appro- 

 priate manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. New and Little-Known North American Bees (Con- 

 tinuation) ............ , v . . 341 



Pilsbry, Henry A. New Achatinidre and Helicida; from Somaliland . . 357 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. New Australian Mollusks. (Plate IX) . . . 364 



Pilsbry, Henry A. and E- G. Vanatta. Descriptions of two new species 



of Ceridn 3(55 



Stone, Witmer. On the Annual Molt of the Sanderling . . . .368 

 Fox, William J. Contributions to a Knowledge of the Hymenoptera of 



Brazil, No. 3— Sphegidte (sens. lat. ) 373 



Benedict, James E. A Revision of the Genus Synidotea . . . .389 

 Frazer, Dr. Persifor. Geological Section from Moscow to Siberia and 



Return , . . 405 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. Commemorative Minutes .... 458, 481 



Horn, George H., M. D. Commemorative Minute 459 



Van Denburgh, John. Reptiles from Sonora, Sinaloa and Jalisco, Mexico, 



with a Description of a new species of Sceloporus .... 4G0 



Pilsbry, Henry A. and Benj. Sharp, M. D. Scaphopoda of the San 



Domingo Tertiary. ( Plates X, XI ) 4ii5 



Pilsbry, Henry A. New Brazilian Streptaxidse 477 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Additional Note on the Gastropod Genus Tatea, Teni- 



son-Woods ............ 480 



ALLEN, Harrison, M. D. Comparative Measurements of Skulls . . . 482 

 Rhoads, Samuel N. Notes on Living and Extinct Species of North Ameri- 

 can Bovidce. (Plate XII) . . 483 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Descriptions of two new forms of Perideris . . . 503 

 Proceedings of a Meeting held in Commemoration of Harrison 



Allen, M. D. and George Henry Horn, M. D. . . . . 505 

 Edward J. Nolan. Biographical Notices of Harrison Allen and 



George Henry Horn 505 



Samuel N. Rhoads. Dr. Allen's Zoological Work . . . 518 

 Daniel G. BrinTon, M. D. Dr. Allen's Contributions to Anthro- 

 pology 522 



John B. Smith. Dr. Horn's Contributions to Coleopterology . 529 



Report of the Recording Secretary 536 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary 538 



Report of the Librarian 539 



Report of the Curators 542 



Report of the Biological and Microscopical Section .... 546 



Report of the Conchological Section 546 



Report of the Entomological Section , 547 



Report of the Botanical Section 548 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geological Section . . . 549 



Report of the Ornithological Section 550 



Report of the Anthropological Section 552 



Reports of the Professors 552 



Additions to the Museum . . . . 557 



Index to Genera 565 



General Index 574 






WH IflRV " 





