

'?''^< 





Return to 

 LIBRARY OF MARINE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORY 



WOODS HOLE, MASS. 



Loaned by American Museum of Natural History 





OF Sciences 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1894. 



COMIVIITTEE ON PUBLICATION. 

 John H. Redfield, Edward J. Nolan, M.U., 



Thomas Meehan, Charles E. Smith, 



George H. Horn, M.D. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1895. 



34 




yO 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 



January 30, 1895. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings of the 

 Academy for 1894 have been presented at the meetings of the Academy 

 as follows : — 



Pages 



9 to 24 

 25 to 56 

 57 to 88 

 89 to 120 

 121 to 144 

 145 to 160 

 161 to 176 

 177 to 192 

 198 to 208 

 209 to 224 

 225 to 256 

 257 to 288 

 289 to 320 

 321 to 884 

 385 to 416 

 417 to 432 

 433 to 448 

 449 to 464 



Recording iSecretary. 



A i-f r 



LEVMYPE CO., PRINTERS AND ENGRAVERS, PHILA. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



JVitli 7-eference to the several articles contribtited by each. 



For Verbal (^oinmuuicatious see General Index. 



Baker, Frauk C. Further notes on the embryonic whorls of the 



Muricid* 223 



Brown, Arthur Erwiu. On the true character and relationships 



of Ursus ciunamomeus Aud. and Bach 119 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. Homologies of the alisphenoid and 



petromastoid bones in vertebrates 32 



Cockerill, T. D. A. A supplementary note to Mr. Johnson's List 



of Jamaican Diptera 419 



Cope, Edw. D. Observations on the geology of adjacent parts of 



Oklahoma and northwest Texas 63 



Third addition to a knowledge of the Batrachiaand Reptilia 



of Costa Rij:-a 194 



On a collection of Batrachia and Reptilia from the Island of 



Hainan 423 



The Batrachia and Reptilia of the Universitj' of Pennsyl- 

 vania West Indian Expedition of 1890 and 1891 (Plates X, 

 XI, XII) 429 



Davis, G. C. Some notes from a study of the Provancher col- 

 lection of Ichneumonidse 184 



Eakins, Thomas. The differential action of certain muscles 



passing more than one joint 172 



Ellis, J. B., and B. M. Everhart. New species of Fungi from 



various localities 322 



Fowke, Gerard and W. K. Moorehead. Recent mound explora- 

 tions in Ohio 308 



Fox, William J. A proposed classification of the Fossorial Hy- 

 men optera of North America 292 



Goldsmith, E. Volcanic products from the Hawaiian Islands 



(Plate VI) 105 



Johnson, Charles W. List of the Diptera of Jamaica with de- 

 scriptions of new species 271 



Jordan, David Starr. Description of a new subspecies of trout 



from McCloud River, California . . . . • 60 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the life histories of plants 



evs 




No. X: The origiu of coreless apples; The relations be- 

 tween insects and the flowers of Impatiens fulva; Apetal- 

 ism and seed propulsion in Lamium purpureum; Fruiting 

 of Robinia hispida; The vitality of seeds; Apetalism in 



Sisymbrium Thaliana 53 



Contributions to the life histories of plants, No. XI: On 

 the morphology of bractless inflorescence ; On purple- 

 leaved plants; On the origin of the apical cell; The fall of 



the leaf in the holly ; On bees and honeysuckles 162 



Mercer, H. C. Re-exploration of Hartman's Cave, near Strouds- 



burg, Pennsylvania, in 1893 96 



Merriam, Dr. C. Hart. A new subfamily of Murine Rodents— 

 the Neotominje — with descriptions of a new genus and 

 species, and a synopsis of the known forms (Plate IX) . . . 22§ 

 DescriiDtious of eight new species of Pocket Mice (genus 



Perognathus) 262 



Moore, H. F. Tanais robustus, a new species of Anisopoda 



(Plate V) 90 



Moore, J. Percy. Pterodrilus, a remarkable Discodrilid (Plate 



XIII) 449 



Ortmann, Dr. A. A new species of the Isopod-genus Bathyno- 



mus 191 



A study of the systematic and geographical distribution of 



the Decapod family Atyidpe Kingsley 397 



Pilsbry, H. A. Critical list of mollusks collected in the Potomac 



Valley (Plate I) 11 



List of Port Jackson Chitons collected by Di^ J. C. Cox, with 

 a revision of Australian Aeanthochitidte (Plates II, III, IV) 69 



Patella Kermadecensis (Plates VII, VIII) 208 



Rand, Theodore D. The Sadsbury Steatite 455 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Description of a new Armadillo, with re- 

 marks on the genus Muletia Gray Ill 



Contributions to the mammalogy of Florida 152 



A contribution to the life history of the Allegheny Cave Rat, 



Neotoma magister Baird 213 



Descriptions of four new species and two subspecies of White- 

 footed Mice from the United States and British Columbia 253 

 Descriptions of a new subgenus and new species of Arvicoline 



Rodents from British Columbia and Washington 282 



Notes on the Mammals of Monroe and Pike Counties, Penn- 

 sylvania 387 



A new Jumping Mouse from the Pacific Slope 421 



Scott, W. B. A new Insectivore from the White River Beds . . 446 



Stone, Witmer. A revision of the genus Anous 115 



A review of the Old World Rallinae 130 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



•*4«U 



1894. 





^>^.-^ 



January 2. 





The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, iu the chair. 



Forty persons present. 



The deaths of Richard R. Robb, September 12, 1893, and of 

 Joseph D. Potts, December 8, 1893, members, were announced. 



A paper entitled ' ' Description of a new subspecies of trout from 

 McCloud River, California," by David Starr Jordan, was presented 

 for publication. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year : — 



On Library. — W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D., Henry G. 

 Chapman, M. D., Gavin W. Hart, Charles P. Perot and J. Bernard 

 Brinton, M. D. 



On Publications.— John H. Redfield, Charles E. Smith, Thomas 

 Meehan, George H. Horn, M. D. and Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — (Uiarles Morris, Benjamin 

 Sharp, M. D., Samuel G. Dixon, M. D., George A. Rex, M. D. 

 and Uselma C. Smith. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — W. S. W. 

 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Ruschenberger, M. D., Theodore D. Raad, Williain Sellers and 

 Isaac J. Wistar. 



Jajstuary 9. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the cliair. 



Thirty- three persons present. 



The deaths of Henry Pratt McKean, a member, January 5, 1894, 

 and of P. J. Van Beneden, a correspondent, January 8, 1894, were 

 announced. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to the Life- Histories of Plants, 

 No. X," by Thomas Meehan, was presented for publication. 



January 16. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty -four persons present. 



January 23. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Forty-one persons present. 



January 80. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



The death of Paul Fischer, a correspondent, November 29, 1893, 

 was announced. 



The following were elected members : — J. Lewis Ci'ew, Milton J. 

 Greenman, M. D., Frank J. Keely, Edward K. Tryon, Jr. and 

 William S. Vaux, Jr. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



CRITICAL LIST OF MOLLUSKS COLLECTED IN THE POTOMAC VALLEY. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



The mollusks enumerated in this paper were collected by Mr. 

 .1. E. Ives and the writer during the course of a pedestrian tour 

 through parts of Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia, in 

 September, 1892. The route walked over was as follows: From 

 Gettysburg, Pa., westward to the summit of South Mountain, thence 

 southwest to Maryland, across the Cumberland Valley to Hagers- 

 town, Md. From this point the Cumberland Pike (State road) was 

 followed, with occasional slight deviations, westward to Cumberland, 

 Md. .From Cumberland, Mr. Ives proceeded to Luray, Va., 

 across the multitude ol ranges which traverse West Virginia. The 

 writer returning to Philadelphia, stopping to collect at Cherry Run, 

 on the Potomac River, in West Virginia. 



On such a trip one is constantly tempted to stop by the wayside to 

 examine or collect ; and if he be possessed of that passion for collect- 

 ing "specimens" which is the fatal birthi-ight of most naturalists, 

 these interruptions of the journey are likely to be many and long. 

 The eye soon learns to recognize good collecting-ground; and the 

 mere consideration that supper and a resting-place are miles farther 

 on, is lightly esteemed when the charms and hidden possibilities of a 

 wooded ravine weight the balance. The number of localities repre- 

 sented in this collection is therefore great, as would be expected from 

 the above considerations. Probably almost all of the species of mol- 

 lusks inhabiting Maryland, from the South Mountain to Cumberland, 

 were found l)y us; and as the southern tier of counties in Pennsyl- 

 vania is identical with ^laryland in geologic and topographic features, 

 the list practically tells what that portion of Pennsylvania contains 

 of land and fresh-water shells. The list of a collection made by Mr. 

 Witmer Stone at York Furnace, York Co., Pa., has been kindly 

 furnished by him, and the species occurring there are noted hez-ein. 



The general topography and geology of these portions of Pennsyl- 

 vania and Maryland are well known. South Mountain, the Blue 

 Ridge, Martin's Mountain, Sideling Mountain, Town Ridge, Wills 

 Mountain, and numerous smaller intermediate ridges, cut this district 

 into a series of wide and narrow valleys, trending N. E. by S. W.; 




12 PROC'ERDINGS OK THK ACADEMY OF [1894. 



each valley supplying a creek tributary to the Potomac. The valleys 

 are mostly eroded anticlines, so that a great variety of strata are ex- 

 posed ; but sandy shales and shaly sandstones predominate. 



The Potomac crosses this series of parallel ridges nearly at a right 

 angle. It is everywhere shallow and rapids are frequent. At Cum- 

 berland it is dammed, and all the water which is not used by the city 

 water-works feeds the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, which has its 

 western terminus here. Above the backwater from this dam it is a 

 shallow rapid stream from forty to sixty feet wide, with a rocky, or in 

 places, gravelly bed ; and the low banks are fringed with graceful 

 maple, willow and sycamore trees, often festooned with grape vines, 

 and in places mingled with oak and locust. The water here is of a 

 dark sepia tint, being stained by the spruce sawdust from saw-mills 

 upon its upper course, and probably also by decaying laurel and 

 bay leaves, for the region above is densely wooded. No mollusk life 

 whatever could be found in this brown water, but minnows and tad- 

 poles were seen. Below the dam at Cumberland the wide river-bed 

 is dry, except for occasional pools, in which a few Planorbis blcarina- 

 tus and Amnicola limosa live. 



Except in times of high water therefore, the lower course of the 

 river is an entirely distinct stream from this upper reach. About 

 ten miles below Cumberland the river has about the same volume as 

 the stream above the influence of the Cumberland dam, and the 

 water is clear. 



Wills Creek, which flows through the city of Cumlierland, is a 

 swift stream with a rocky bed. The water is of crystal transparence, 

 but no snails except Planorbis bicarinalHs were found in it. Evitt's 

 Creek, which drains the valley next eastward, contains Ancidosa in 

 abundance. 



Family SELENITID^. 



This family differs from Zonituhr \n having the teeth of the radula 

 all "aculeate," and in lacking pedal grooves above the foot-edges. 



Genus SELENITES Fischer. 



Selenites concavus Say. 



Cumberland, Allegheny County, Md., 64,679. Morgan County, 

 W. Va., opposite Hancock, 64,678. It has been taken by Mr. 

 W. Stone at York Furnace, York County, Pa., and by Mr. C. W. 




1894.] NATrKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



Johnson in Fulton County, Pa. It occurs over nearly the whole 

 of eastern North America. 



Family ZONITIDJE. 



A complete rearrangement of the American genera of this family 

 is necessary, and although a local fauual list may be considered 

 hardly the place for radical changes in nomenclature, still it may be 

 preferable to the perpetuation of an untenable system. The species 

 which were formerly referred to the genus Zonites will now be dis- 

 tributed into several genera, distinguished by important structural 

 peculiarities. 



The genus Zonites of Montfort has no representative in America, 

 being confined to the circum-Mediterranean and adjacent faunas. In 

 this genus the shell is large, solid, opaque and discoidal, and is al- 

 ways strongly carinated, at least when young. The jaw has a strong 

 median projection; the genitalia lack all accessory organs, being of 

 the haplogonous type. The synonymy of the genus is as follows: 



1810. — Zonites Montfort, Conchyliologie Systematique, II, p. 282. 

 Type jET. algini L. 



1833. — ^Egopsis Fitzinger, Syst. Vers, p. 99. H. verticillus. 



1837. — Tragomma Held., Isis, p. 916. H acies Partsh. 



1847. — Helicodes Dumas, Comp. Rend., XXV, p. 113. H. algira. 



1849. — Helicella, in ])art, of Ferussac, Prodrom. and of Risso, Hist. 

 Nat. Eur. Merid., IV, p. 68 (1826), and of Beck, In- 

 dex (1837). 



1855.— Fer^t«7^»sMoq.-Tand. Hist. Nat. Moll. Fr., p. 91. Z. 

 algirus. 

 Not Zonites of American authors ! 



Genus OMPHALINA Rafinesque. 



Omphalina Raf., Enumeration and Account of some remarkable 

 Natural Objects in the cabinet of Prof. Rafinesque, in Philadel- 

 phia, p. 3. November, 1831. (Type 0. cuprea Raf.,^if. fuli- 

 ginosa Griff. ). Binney ct Bland, Land and Fresh-water Shells 

 of N. A., p. 283. 1869. Trvon, Amer. Journ. Conch., II, p. 

 247. 1866. V. Martens, Biol! Ceutr. Amer., Mollusca, p. 104. 

 1892. 



Mesomplux (in part). Beck, Index Moll. p. 7. 1838. 



Neozonitince Pffeffer, in Strebel's Beitr. Mex. Land u. Siiss-W. 

 Couch., IV, p. 1. 1880. 



Edusa Alb., Die Heliceen (2), p. 72. 1860. (Tvpe H. zonites 

 Pfr.). 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Morelet'm Gray, Pulm. Brit. Mus., p. 148. 1855. (Type H. eury- 



omphala Pfr. ). 

 Zoiiynliiia INIarteus, Mai. Bl. , 1865, p. 16. (Type H. bilineata 



P'fr. ). 

 Pafitlopsis Strebel & PfFeff'er, /. c. (Type P. carinatus Str.) 

 ZoniteSi s. g. Mesomphix Biuney, Terr. Moll., V, p. 98. 1878. 



The generic characters of this group are as follows: 



Shell rather large and solid but thin, umbilicated, smooth below, 

 lacking teeth or folds within; the lip simple and sharj). 



Foot double grooved above its margin, the grooves meeting above 

 the tail in a mucus pore; sole tripartite; dorsal surface from head to 

 mantle entirely lacking longitudinal grooves. 



Genital system lacking dart sac and (tther accessory glands. See 

 under 0. faUghiom, below. 



This genus contains the large Zonitoids of North America. It 

 has not been recognized as yet in Pakiearctic regions. 



0. fuliginosa fhiti". PI. 1, fig. 5. 



York Furnace, York County, Pa., 63,857. Collected by Wit- 

 mer Stone. No specimens were found by us in Maryland. 



The genital organs of this species and its allies seem to have been 

 misinterpreted by writers on United States forms, who have mis- 

 taken the swollen base of the vas deferens for the penis, and have 

 considered the penis itself to be a dart sack or prostate gland of some 

 sort. 



In 0. fuliginosa, the penis (P.), is a rather short stout sac, with 

 the retractor muscle (/■. p.) insei'ted at its apex, and attached dis- 

 tally to the floor of the lung. Internally the distal half of the 

 cavity of the penis is densely, finely and rather sharply granulated; 

 the opening of the vas deferens is near the apex of the cavity, and is 

 not provided with a papilla. The lower portion of the vas deferens 

 (v. d.) is enormously swollen; and for a short distance from its inser- 

 tion it is firmly bound to the penis itself. 



The vagina (vag.) is curiously swollen near the base. Thesperma- 

 theca (sp.) is large, subglobular, and together with its rather long 

 duct, is bound firmly to the oviduct. The albumen gland ((/. gl.) 

 is uncommonly large. 



The figure is drawn from a specimen collected by Mr. Witraer 

 Stone at York Furnace, York County, Pa. (No. 63,857). Several 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



individuals from different localities were examined and found to 

 agree in the characters described. 



Genus VITREA Fitzinger. 



(1817. — Not iZ7/«7ma Schumacher, Syst. Vers. Test., p. 234, belongs 



to Marginellldie). 

 1819. — S. g. Helicella, Les Aplostomes, ^^'^ Les Hyalines, Hyalime, 



Ferussac (includes the European translucent zonitoids 



and many exotic species of various genera). 

 (1820. — Not Hyalina Studer, Syst. Verzeich. Schweiz Conch., p. 



11, = Vitn'iia Drap. 1805). 

 18oo. — Fi^rea Fitzinger, Syst. Verzeich., p. 99. 

 IS^S.— Oxi/chilas Fitz. , I.e., p. 100, in part, not O.vycheila Dejean, 



1825. 

 1837. — HyaUnia Agassiz, in Charpentier, Nouv. Mem. Soc. Helv. , 



i., p. 13. 

 1837. — Pollta Held., Isis,p. 910 (proposed for ce^^ciHa Miill., glabra 



^i\\([., ititensWxch.., mt'nhda Fir., lackla Dr., nitidosa 



Fer., dara Held., leidlralaris Held., crystaUina Mull., 



Jixjallna Fer., coidorta Held.,/((foa Miill. ). 

 1854. — Lucilla Lowe, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond. , p. 177, type i?! cel- 



laria, ]Mull. 

 1854. — Crystidlus Lowe, Proc. Zool. Soc. Loud., p. 178, type H. 



crystaUina^ Miill. 

 1855. — ^;jW.o/;(aMoq.-Tand. Hist., Nat. Moll. France, IT, p. 72. 



(Includes nUidas, oliveforaiii, lucidus, cellariiix, g/aber, 



alii trills, nitidalKS, nitenx, driatalas, pur as, erystalliiias). 

 1857. — Euhyalina Albers, Malak. Blatter, IV, p. 91, type H. cel- 

 lar ia. 

 1879. — Aegopina Kobelt, Icouogr. Eur. Landund Siisswasser 



Moll., VI, p. 15 ( proposed as a substitute for ilfe8o«i-/>M(-' 



of European authors, not of Rafinesque. Type H. 



(diretorum Gm. ). 

 ISSd.—Diaphanella Clessin, Mai. Bl. (n. F.), II, p. 206, type H. 



diaphava Stud. 

 1880. — Mediterranea C\^sm\, I. c. type JZ. hydatiiia Kostim. 

 1886. — Hydatiiiu Westerlund, Fauna, etc. , p. 37, type H. hydaiiiia 



Rossm. 

 1886. — Aiiomphala West., /. c, p. 29, types parthenicn and 



diaphatia. 

 1891.— F/^rm Fitz., E. A. Smith, Journ. of Conch., VI, p. 337, 



339. 

 18^)2.— GlyphyaUiiia Martens, Jiiol. Cent. Amer., Mollusca, p.ll7. 



(H. indeidata Say, etc.). Zonites of many authors, not of 

 Montfort. 

 This genus consists of small glassy zonitoid snails having no ac- 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



cessoiy organs developed upon the genital system, differing in this 

 respect from the Zonitoldes section of G tstrodonta. The type of 

 Vitrea is H. crydalllna Miiller of Europe. There are a great many 

 generic synonyms, but part of the names quoted above are available 

 for sectional divisions. The American species must all be examined 

 to ascertain whether or not they possess a dart sac, as those having 

 this structure must be removed to the genus Gastrodoiita. I have 

 not had time to examine the soft parts of any of them. 



V. arborea Say. 



Monterey, Franklin Co., Pa., 64,696, S. E. cor. Franklin Co., 

 Pa., near Maryland line, 64,693. Foothills of Martin's INIt., Md., 

 64,694. Morgan Co., W. Va., opposite Hancock, 64,695. Also 

 collected at York Furnace, York Co., Pa., by Witmer Stone. 



V. electrina Old. 



Summit of North Mountain, west of Clear Spring, Washington 

 Co., Md., 64,836. Monterey, Franklin Co., Pa., 64,839. 



V. (Glyphyalinia) indentata Say. 



Monterey, Franklin Co., Pa., 64,838. Summit of North Moun- 

 tain, west of Clear Spring, Md., 64,837. Morgan Co., W. Va., op- 

 posite Hancock, 64,692. Also York Furnace, York Co., Pa. 

 (Stone). 



Genus GASTRODONTA Albers. 



1S50.— Gastrodonta Alb., Die Heliceen, p. 88. 



1857. — Gastrodonta Alb., Mai. Bl. IV, p. 91, type H. interna Say. 



1862. — Zojijfotdes Lehraann, Mai. Bl. IX, p. Ill, type Z. nltidus 



Miill. 

 1864. — Pset(do]iiialina Morse, Terr. Pulm. Me., p. 15, (for H. 



exigiia, mlnnscala, limatnla, etc.). 

 1869. — Ventrideris Binney and Bland, Laud and Fresh- water 



Shells of N. A., I, p. 292 (proposed for H. (jularis 



and H. snppressa Say). 



The shell is provided with internal teeth or lamellae in the typical 

 forms of this genus. In another group, consisting of G. ligera and 

 its allies there are no teeth, but a strong white callus upon the floor 

 of the last whorl. In the section Zonitoldes this callus is wanting, 

 and the whorls are rounded below. 



The prominent feature of the genitalia is the presence of a dart 

 sac containing a long curved calcareous dart, situated upon the va- 




1894] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



gina; and this is the most important generic character. In PI. I, fig. 

 4, is shown the dart of G. llgem, magnified twelve diameters. 



There are strong reasons for believing that the presence of a dart, 

 the coronal glands being correlated with it, is a very old character in 

 Zoii!tid<e, and that it was present in the nndifterentiated stock from 

 wliich nearly all the existing genera have diverged. ' It this be true, 

 then Vltrea, Omphalina, etc., must be regarded as secondarily haplo- 

 gonous, having lost the dart apparatus which was present in their 

 ancestors. 



G. suppressa Say. 



Gettysburg, Adams County, Pa., 64,083. Monterey, Franklin 

 County, Pa., 64,087. Also at York Furnace, York County, Pa. 

 (Witmer Stone). In Maryland at Cave Town, 64,084, and Sum- 

 rait of North Mountain, 64,080; Martin's Mountain, 64,680, between 

 Green and Polish Mts., 64,682. Cumberland, Allegheny Co., 64,685, 

 and Morgan Co., ^V. Va., opposite Hancock, 64,681. 



G. ligera Say. 



All of the specimens were small, shining and smoother than usual, 

 measuring about 11 mm. in diameter, the umbilical perforation 

 minute, about -3 mm. wide. Gettysburg, Pa., 64,697. Chewsville, 

 Washington Co., Md., 64,690. Ten miles west of Hancock, Md., 

 64,689;" Cumberland, Allegheny Co., Md., 64,688. 



Family ENDODONTIDJE. 



Genus PYRAMIDULA Fitzinger. 



The generic names used in this paper for Helices are fully ex- 

 plained in the writer's guide to the Helices, now^ being published. 



P. alternata Say. 



Chewsville, Washington Co., Md., 64,698. Martin's :Mountain, 

 Md., 64,699, 64,700. West Virginia, opposite Hancock, Md. 

 Cumberland, Md., 64,697. Collected by Stone at York Furnace, 

 York Co., Pa. 



P. striatella Aiitli. 



Hanover, York Co., Pa., 64,703. A delicate, fine-ribbed form. 



1 Perhaps excepting Contilus, Microcystis, etc. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



The southeastei'u limit of distributiou of this species is still to be 

 mapped. 



P. perspectiva Say. 



Cumberland, Md., 64,702. Morgan Co., W. Va,, opposite Han- 

 cock, 64,701. The specimens from Cumberland are uncommonly 

 coarse- ribbed. INIorgau County is probably the eastern limit of dis- 

 tribution for this species. 



P. lineata Say. 



Gettysburg, Adams Co. , Pa. , 64, 705. Monterey, Franklin Co., Pa., 

 64,704. 



Family HELICIDJE. 

 Genus POLYGYRA (Say 1818) Pils. 1889. 



Poh/gyra Say, 1818 -)- Memhv Raf., 1881, -f Stenotrevia and 



Triodopsis Rafinesque, 1811*. 

 Neohelix v. Ihering, 1892. 



P. hirsuta Say. 



The specimens from this region are all small, measuring from 6 to 

 6 -5 mm. diameter, and 4 to 4 -5 mm. height. Monterey, Franklin 

 Co., Pa., 64,731. Cave Town, Wash. Co., Md., 64,732. Summit 

 of North Mountain, west of Clear Spring, Washington Co., Md., 

 64,729. Martin's Mountain, 64,730. Between Green and Polish 

 Mts., 64,726. Cumberland, Allegheny Co., Md., 64,724. Mor- 

 gan Co., W. Va., opposite Hancock, 64,728. Found ])y Stone at 

 York Furnace, York Co. , Pa. 



P. monodon Rackett. 



Gettysburg, Adams Co., Pa., 64,739. Monterey, Franklin Co., 

 Pa., 64,740. Cave Town, Washington Co., IsU., 64,738. Between 

 Green and Polish Mts., Md., 64,726. Martin's Mountain, 64,736. 

 Cumberland, Md., 64,735. Morgan Co., W.Va., opposite Hancock, 

 64,737. The specimens from Pennsylvania would fall under the 

 "variety" fntternu, having the undjilicus wholly closed. This 

 species was collected by Stone at York Furnace, York Co., Pa. 



P. thyroides Say. 



Ten miles west of Hancock, Md., 64,712. West Va., opposite 

 Hancock. Cund)erlaud, INId., 64,711, abundant. Like Philadel- 




1894.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



phia specimeus, tliese have a wide range of variation in size and de- 

 gree of closure of the umbilicus. Seven out of the nine adults pre- 

 served from Cumberland, have developed a strong parietal tooth. 

 Collected l)y Stone at York Furnace, York Co., Pa. 



P. albolabris .Say. 



■Monterey, Franklin Co., Pa., 64,707, large (31 mm. diam.), 

 solid and dark colored. Cave Town, Washington Co., INld., 64,708, 

 small, (26 to 28 nun. diam. ) and solid. Fairview, top of North 

 Mountain, Md. Foothills, 64,706, and summit, 64,709, of Martin's 

 Mt, Allegheny Co., Md., small specimens. Cumberland, Md., 

 64,710, large and solid, measuring o2 mm. diameter. West Vir- 

 ginia, opposite Hancock, Md. 



It is curious to note that the specimens from Franklin Co., Pa., 

 collected in a porphyritic region, should markedly exceed in size those 

 from Cave Town and ^lartiu's Mountain, Md., tracts rich in lime- 

 stone, the soil being mainly formed by its disintegration. The small- 

 est specimens (22 mm. diam.) were collected at the foot of Martin's 

 Mountain. Stone collected this species at York Furnace, York 

 Co., Pa. 



P. palliata Say. 



Cund)erland, Md., 68,710, typical. Collected also by Stone at 

 York Furnace, York Co. , Pa. , where lie found it only in hemlock 

 woods. In the Catskill Mountains I have found it under the loose 

 bark of iallen hemlock boles. 



P. tridentata Say. PI. 1, Fig. 7. 



Cundierland, Md. , 64,714. Typical specimens in every respect, 

 measuring 13 mm. in diameter. Also found in Morgan Co., W. 

 Va., opposite Hancock, 64,715. In both localities associated with 

 P. fraudidenta. 



It must be distinctly understood that Say's types of this species 

 were the small forms found in the " Middle States." Say describes 

 it as " half an inch wide." He afterward collected the large form 

 in the Ohio basin, referring it to the same species. This large form 

 should be regarded as a geographic race. In Terr. Moll., Ill, the 

 typical form is figured on PI. XXVII, side figures, and the large 

 race is shown in the upper, lower and central figures of the same 




20 PROCEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



plate. Bin ney's wood -cuts (Man. Amer. L. Sh. etc.) represent the 

 large form from Ohio. 



P. tridentata juxtidens n. vur. PI. 1, Fig:, s. 



Cave Town, Md., 64,720; very numerous in stony places. This 

 is a limestone region, and the red soil is largely the result of lime- 

 stone decomposition. The same foi-m of Triodopsis was found at 

 Gettysburg, Pa., 64,719, and in Allegheny Co., Md. , between 

 Green and Polish Mountains, 64,716, Chewsville, Md. , 64,717, at 

 Fairview, summit of North Mountain, Md., and in Morgan Co., W. 

 Va., opposite Hancock, 64,718. It is common around Philadelphia, 

 where typical tridentata also occurs. 



This form is distinguished from typical tridentata by the lower 

 position of the upi)er lip-tooth, the latter part of the parietal 

 lamella being directed toward this tooth or to a point above 

 it, whilst in the type the lip-teeth are more separated and 

 the latter portion of the parietal lamella is directed toward a 

 point on the peristome between them. The variety is more coarsely 

 striated also. The number of whorls (5) is the same in variety and 

 type. The measurements of three individuals are as follows : 



Alt. 7 diam. 14 mm. (Philadelphia). 



G'i " 13^ " (Cave Town, Md., largest). 

 6 " 11 " ( " " " smallest). 



The upper lip-tooth is sometimes broader than the lower, and oc- 

 casionally a trifle "inflected." The parietal blade is slightly 

 arcuate. 



P. tridentata fraudulenta u. var. PI. 1. Fig. 6. 



Morgan Co., W. Va. , opposite Hancock, Md., 64,724 and 

 64,725; Cumberland, Md., 64,723. At both of these localities it 

 is found living with typical P. tridentata. 



In its typical development this vainety is a compact shell of a red- 

 dish-brown color (varying to white in some localities); the spire is 

 low-convex, composed of six closely coiled whorls, the last being nota- 

 bly deflexed in front and strongly constricted behind the lip. The 

 aperture is strongly "dished" or basin-shaped; the outer lip bears a 

 broad tongue-shaped inflected tooth, situated at the position of the 

 periphery of the shell. The middle of the basal lip bears a small 

 stpiarish tubercle, which is often laterally compressed. The parietal 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'H ILADELPHIA. 21 



wall hears an elevated oblique blade which is typically almost 

 straight and never much curved. 



Alt. 8k diara. 16J mm. (No. 64,725). 

 6* " 13 " (No. 64,723). 



The tooth upon the outer li[) is generally bifid. Binney's figures 

 of Triodopsid fallax (Man. Amer. L. Sh., p. 292, fig. 314) represent 

 a form of this subspecies, but not its typical development. That 

 this is not the true H. fallax of Say will be evident to anyone com- 

 paring it with the original description. The characters of the two 

 are best shown in the following table : 



P. fraudulenta. H. fallax, Say's description. 



Spire moderately convex. Spire convex, higher than in tri- 



dent ata. 



Whorls six. Whorls five. 



Parietal tooth straight or nearly Parietal tooth " curving down- 

 so. wards." 



Diameter 11 to 17 mm. Diameter 11] mm. 



Hal)itat : Cumberland Mountain Locality, "vicinity of Philadel- 

 svstem, extending northward i)bia." 



along the mountains to Mary- 

 land and westward throughout 

 the Ohio Valley. 



No shells exhibiting the characters of fraud ale ntn have been found 

 in the cis-Alleghenian region of eastern Pennsylvania or New Jer- 

 sey, so far as I can judge by the collections of Philadelphia coucholo- 

 gists, which cover a great many localities and a long series of years. 

 This region is inhabited by typical tridentnta, its variety jaxtidens, 

 and by the "if. introferens" of Bland and authors generally. 



P. fallax Say. 



Gettysburg, Pa., 64,722. The variations of the tridentata group 

 of Tilodop><is are an extremely intricate study, and strange as it may 

 seem, the names hitherto attached to some of the forms require re- 

 vision. Helix fallax was described by Say from the vicinity of Phila- 

 delphia; but the form heretofore so called is not found near Philadel- 

 phia, nor has it been within the present century, if ever. The 

 Triodopses found in this vicinity are (1) P. trideidafa Say, typical; 

 (2) P. tridoitafi jiixtldens ; and (3) P. introferens Bland. These 

 three forms are represented in the collection of the Academy byspeci- 




22 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



raens collected many years ago as well as by others taken during the 

 past year; and no other forms or species have to my knowledge l)een 

 found anywhere near Philadelphia. 



The conclusion that one of these three is the faUax of Say is there- 

 fore an extremely probable one. Upon turning to Say's original 

 deserii)tion fjourn. Acad. Nat. Sci., V, p. 119) we find that it ap- 

 |)lies exactly to the shell known as Helix vtfroferens Bid. Say men- 

 tions the parietal tooth "curving downwards so as to nearly reach the 

 termination of the labrum" and says : "This resembles the trideii- 

 tdt I nob., but the upper tooth of the labrum is much inflected, the 

 spire is more elevated, and the size is less considerable. ' ' He gives the 

 diameter as " nine- twentieths of an inch," which is exactly the size 

 of the Philadelphia " introferetts." It should l)e added that Say's 

 types of frideidiiti and f(dla.c are no longer in existence. In view of 

 the facts of the case, it seems to me necessary to use Say's mime fal- 

 Ik.v for the species hitherto called liitroferens, the latter becoming a 

 synonym. 



The prominent features of this shell, besides its elevated spire and 

 and inflected upper tooth, are the angular curvature of the parietal 

 tooth, and the continuation inward of the basal tooth and the callus 

 around the "'profound sinus" between the two lip-teeth. 



Genus STROBILOPS Pilsbry. 

 S. virgo Pilsbry. 



Near Monterey, Adams Co. , Pa., ()<S,8o5. 



Family PHILOMYCIDiE. 

 Genus PHILOMYCUS (Raf.) Fer. 

 P. carolinensis (Bosc. ) Fer. 



Southeastern sl()j)e of North iMouiitniu mid ('uinlHTland, ^Id. ; 

 Monterey, Pa. Stone collected it al YoiL I'^inuicc, York Co., Pa. 

 Also seen at Fairview, summit of Nortli Mountain, Md. 



P. pennsylvanicus rilsl)r.y, ii. sp. 



A maculated species having the jaw strongly ril)])C(l. It is 

 smaller and less distinctly marked than P. c.n<diiu:iisis. Full des- 

 cription with anatomical details will be given later. 



York Furnace, York Co., Pa. (Witmer Stone!). South Moun- 

 tain, near Pa. and Md. State boundarv. 




1894.] NATITRAL SCIENCES OK I'll ll-ADEI^PHIA. 2o 



Family PUPID^. 

 Genus LEUCOCHILA Martens. 

 L. fallax Say. 



Cave Town, Washini^ton Co., Md., 64,786; Martiu's Mouutaiu, 

 Allegheny Co., IMd., 64,785. 



Genus PUPA Drap. 

 Subgenus Bifidaria Sterki. 

 P. armifera Say. 



Gettysburg, Pa., 64,783. Cave Town, Md., 64,784. 



Section Vertigopsis Sterki. 

 P. pentodon Say. 



Green and Polish Mts., Allegheny Co. , JMd. , 64,787. 



Genus VERTIGO Muller. 

 V. ovata Say. 



Green and Polish Mts., Allegheny Co., Md., 64,840. 



V. edentula simplex (rid. 



Was collected by Witnier Stone at York Furnace, York Co., Pa. 



Family SUCCINEIDtE. 



Genus SUCCINEA Draparnaud. 



S. obliqua Say. 



Morgan Co., West Virginia, opposite Hancock, 64,734. 



S. avara Say. 



Monterey, Franklin Co., Pa., 64,733. 



S. ovalis GUI. 



Was collected by Witmer Stone at York Furnace, York Co., Pa. 

 We did not find it in Maryland. 



Family LIMNJEIN^. 

 Subfamily Limnseinse. 

 Genus LIMN.a;A Lam. 

 L. desidiosa Say. 



Conecocheague River, Md., 64,802. Patterson's Creek, Mineral 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Co., West Virginia, 64,808. Found by Mr. Stone at York Furnace, 

 York Co., Pa., where L. huviilis Say, L. columella Say and L. 

 caperata Say also occur. 



Subfamily Planorbinse. 



Genus PLANORBIS Guet. 

 P. trivolvis Say. 



Canal at Hancock, ^Nld., 64,800, also York Furnace, York Co., 

 Pa. (Stone). 



P. bicarinatus Say. 



Gettysburg, Pa., 64,795. Conecochegue River, Md., 64,798. 

 Potomac R., at Hancock, Md., 64,794. Flintstone Creek, Flint- 

 stone, Md., 64,788. Evitts' Creek, near Cumberland, Md., 64,793. 

 Cumberland, Md., 64,792. Patterson Creek, Mineral Co., W. Va., 

 64,791. S. Branch Potomac R. , 4 miles from Romney, W. Va., 

 64,797. Warm Spring Creek, Morgan Co., W. Va., opposite 

 Hancock, 64,796. North River, Sedan, Hampshire Co., W. Va., 

 64,790. Potomac River at Cherry Run, W. Va., 64,789. South 

 Fork Shenandoah River, near Luray, Va., 64,799. Also York 

 Furnace Pa. (Stone). 



Throughout this region P. bivaruuttiis and Fhijsa heterostropha 

 are ubiquitous aquatic species. 



P. parvus Say. 



Canal at Hancock, ^Id., 64,801. Also York Furnace, Pa. 

 (Stone), with Segment !)ia ((.rmigera, Say. 



Subfamily Ancylinse. 



Genus ANCYLUS Goeff. 

 A. rivularis Say. 



Piny Creek, Gettysburg; Pa., 64,804. Between (rrcen and 

 Polish Mts., Allegheny Co., Md., 64,805. Warm Spring Creek, 

 Morgan Co., W. Va.,64,806. 



Family PHYSIDvE. 

 Genus PHYSA Drap. 



P. heterostropha Say. 



Gettysburg, Pa., 64,814. Conecocheague River, Washington 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



Co., iNId., 64,808. Potomac River at Hancock, Md., 64,810. 

 Town Creek, AUeoheny Co., Md., 64,807. Flintstone Creek at 

 Flintstoue, Md., 64,815. Evitt's Creek, near Cumberland, Md., 

 64,816. Potomac River, o miles below Cumberland, 64,811. 

 Patterson '.s Creek, Mineral Co., W. Va., 64,812. Potomac River, 

 at Cherry Run, W. Va., 64,81o. A small creek flowing into 

 LittTe Cacapon River, Ham})shire Co., W. Va. , 64,817. South 

 Fork Shenandoah River, near Luray, Va., 64,819. Also York 

 Furnace, Pa. (Stone). 



Que lot, 64,807, shows a strong tendency toward the obeseness so 

 characteristic of the transition forms between heterostropha and an- 

 cillaria found at Philadelphia and Washington. All of the others 

 are very near the type of heterostropha. 



Family VIVIPARIDJE. 



Genus CAMPELOMA Rafinesque. 



C. decisum Say. 



Potomac River at Hancock, i\[d., 64,751. Potomac River at 

 Cherry Run, W. Va., 64,752. Typical at both localities. Stone 

 collected it at York Furnace, York Co., Pa., with Lioplax subcari- 

 iiata. 



Family AMNICOLIDJE. 

 Genus AMNICOLA G. & H. 

 A. limosa Say. 



Very numerous in the canal at Hancock, Md., 64,755. Coneco- 

 cheague River, west of Hagerstown, Md., 64,756 (small form). Also 

 found at York Furnace, York Co., Pa., by Witmer Stone. 



Genus GILLIA Stimp. 

 G. altilis Lea. 



Canal at Hancock, Md., 64,782. Potomac River, at Cherry 

 Run, \y. Va., 64,781. 



An abundunt species throughout the drainage of the Chesapeake 

 and Delaware Bays. Stone found it at York Furnace, York Co., 

 Pa. 



o 

 O 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Genus BYTHINELLA, Auct. 

 B. nickliniana Lea. 



Conecocheague Kiver, west of Hagerstovvu, Md., 64, 757. 



Family PLEUROCERID^E. 



Genus ANCULOSA Say. 

 A. carinata Brug. 



This species is the characteristic mollusk of perennial streams in the 

 Chesapeake Bay river-system. It has been found only in waters of 

 this drainage, being unknown in the adjacent Delaware system on 

 the north-east, in the Ohio system on the west, and in streams empty- 

 ing into the Atlantic to the south of Chesapeake Bay. 



Aiiculosa being essentially a ti-ans-Alleghenian genus, we may 

 with considerable confidence surmise that the ancestors of A. carin- 

 ata were introduced into the head waters of the Potomac from some 

 creek of the Ohio system, and from this colony spread throughout the 

 Chesapeake drainage. The fact that it inhabits the James River 

 and other Virginian streams which are now isolated from the Poto- 

 mac and Susquehanna by a long stretch of salt water, indicates that 

 since the introduction of Ancidosa, and the differention of the species 

 carinata, the Chesapeake region has been much more elevated than 

 it is at present. Ancalosa can endure neither salt nor slow- flowing 

 water; and it must have spread to these various streams at a time 

 when the united waters of the Susquehanna, Potomac, Ra})pahan- 

 nock and James Rivers flowed in one mighty stream to the Atlantic. 

 It may be suggested that the distribution has lieen accomplished 

 overland; but tliis is highly improbable; for if so, why is the species 

 so strictly limited to the Chesapeake system? Why has it not invaded 

 the Delaware-Schuylkill drainage, which otters equally favorable 

 stations, and is separated by but a few miles from the eastern tribu- 

 taries of the Susquehanna? We must conclude that Strepoinafldn' 

 require as a rule actual water counnunieation for their spread from 

 stream to stream. The exceptions are probably rare and unimpor- 

 tant. 



The presence of this species in the headwaters of the Roanoke 

 River at the hamlet of Lafayette, Montgomery Co., Va. , is readily 

 accounted for by the close proximity of the creeks forming the head 

 of the James and those flowing into the Roanoke. Some time a* 




1894.] naturaIj sciences of Philadelphia. 27 



rivulet inhabited by Anculosa was "stolen" from the James by the 

 Koauoke drainage, thus transferring the species.^ 



Goniobasis virgiiiica is aj)parently a much older resident of the 

 eastern couutry. It ranges from the Connecticut River (at Deep 

 River, Conn.) to middle Virginia. The genus Goniobasis is known 

 to be a much more ancient group geologically. 



The distribution of Aiiciilosa carinata is pretty thoroughly known 

 by the localities given in Tryon's monograph, and the specimens in 

 the collection of the Philadelphia Academy and the U. S. National 

 Museum.* It extends northward to the headwaters of the Susque- 

 hanna in New York State. Both of the collections named possess 

 specimens said to be from regions outside of the Chesapeake drain- 

 age, such as "Ohio," "Lake Erie," etc., audDeKay reports it from 

 "Lake Champlaiu;" but these localities are, there is not much 

 doubt, false. The older collectors were not so punctilious about cor- 

 rect habitats for their shells as we have now learned to be; and in 

 the absence of confirmation by later collections the evidence of these 

 old labels must be held insufficient. Lakes Champlain and Erie, 

 and the State of Ohio, are now well known to many ardent and 

 reliable students of conohology, and such a conspicuous shell as A. 

 carimda would not be overlooked by them. 



The following localities are represented in the collections made by 

 Mr. Ives and myself: 



Susquehanna River, York Co., 62,820, collected by Witmer 

 Stone. Specimens small, 8-10 ram. long. Apices much eroded. 



Couecocheague River, west of Hagerstown, Md. , 64, 757, under 

 slabs and flakes of shale in rapid current; specimens rather small arid 

 black- brown or by transmitted light dark- green; the last whorl 

 mostly rounded. Another lot, 64,768, collected from the upper sur- 

 faces of stones along the shore at the same place, averages much 

 larger. The specimens are light olive-colored. Apices perfect or 

 nearly so. 



Licking Creek, Md., on black limestone, 64,841. 



Flintstone Creek, Fliutstone, Allegheny Co., Md., 64,769. 

 Specimens nearly black and acutely keeled. Apices entire, living 

 on the under surface of stones. 



-See in.staiu-cs cited in Stir/uf. .Fiily 1S!)3, p. 3(5. 



^ Mr C. T. Simpson has kindly furnished me with a list of localities represented 

 in the National Museum. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Evitt's Creek, near Cuinberhmd, Md., 64,766. Color light- 

 l)ro\vn or black- brown. Apices entire. Ou the under surface of 

 stones. 



Potomtic River, Hancock, Md., 64,771. Shell compact, the last 

 whorl rounded; dark and usually banded with black; columella 

 black; spires much eroded. Size generally large. Another lot, 

 taken a few miles above Hancock 64,776, is the same in character 

 but smaller. 



Potomac River at Cherry Run, Morgan Co., W. Va., 64,770. 

 Shells large, very dark and having a black-brown basal band and 

 sometimes a sutural band. Last whorl rounded. Apex somewhat 

 eroded, but much less so than in the Hancock shells. 



South Branch of Potomac River, near Romney, W. Va., 64,760 

 and 64,759. Shells small, short, and acutely keeled. 



South Branch Potomac, near Springfield, Hampshire Co., W. 

 Va., 64,763. Specimens small, many not keeled upon the last whorl. 



Cacapon River, Wardensville, Hardy Co., W. Va., 64,773. 

 Specimens mostly small, dark colored, often three-banded. Very 

 numerous ou stones. 



Creek affluent to Cacapon River, near Wardensville, 64,765. 

 Specimens very small, globose, not keeled; color dark, mostly 3- 

 banded. 



Lost River, 4 miles from Wardensville, 64,774. 



Warm Spring Creek, about one-half mile from its mouth, Morgan 

 Co., W. Va. , 64,764. Specimens very large (length 16 mm.), 

 acutely keeled, light- brown, but covered with a black coating; apices 

 mostly perfect. The specimens from the Potomac at the mouth of 

 this creek differ from these in being generally unkeeled and much 

 eroded. 



Patterson's Creek, Mineral Co., W. Va. , 64,754. Specimens 

 small, mostly keeled. Another set, 64,753, from a "Run" affluent 

 to the same creek, consists of larger shells. 



Big Pass Creek, west of Massauattcni Mt., Shenandoah Co., Va., 

 64,775. Specimens large and globular, the adults without trace of 

 the keel, and light-brown. 



North Fork of Shenandoah River, about 3 miles S.-E. of Wood- 

 stock, Va., 64,777. Shells small. 



South Fork of Shenandoah River, 3 miles west of Luray, Page 

 Co., Va., 64,762. Rather small shells. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



A. dilatata Conrad, var. 



North River, at Sedan P. O., Hampshire Co., W. Va., 64,758. 

 A curious elongated form, ecarinate even in the young, and with the 

 basal "spout " almost obsolete. The specimens may perhaps be re- 

 ferable to A. corpuleiita, described from Dan River, N. C. A large 

 series was collected. 



Genus GONIOBASIS Lea. 

 G. virginica Gmel. 



Potomac River at Hancock, Md., 64,778. Canal at Hancock, 

 64,779. Potomac River at Cherry Run, W. Va., 64,780. Also 

 York Furnace, York Co., Pa. (Stone). 



Both smooth and striatetl specimens occur, indiscriminately 

 mingled, as is the case elsewhere wherever I have collected this 

 species. Nearly all of the smooth examples are conspicuously two- 

 banded, as are many of the striated ones also. 



This species is found throughout the larger streams of the Potomac 

 drainage and north to New York and Connecticut, but the soutliern 

 limit of its range has not l)een accurately determined. 



Family VALVATIDJE. 



No specimens were found by us in Maryland. Mr. Stone collected 

 Valvata tricarinatd Say and V. bicarinata Lea at York Furnace, 

 York Co., Pa. 



Family CYRENIDJE. 



Genus SPH^ffiEIUM Scop. 

 S. striatinum Lam. 



The most abundant and commonly distributed species throughout 

 the Middle States. Speciiiiens were taken at Gettysburg, Pa., in 

 Piny Creek, 64,831. Conecochegue River west of Hagerstown, 

 Md., 64,833. Potomac River at Cherry Run, W. Va., 64,829. 

 Warm Spring Creek, Morgan Co., W. Va., 64,832. South Fork 

 of the Shenandoah, west of Luray, Va. , 64,830. 



S. sulcatum Lam. 



Piny Creek, Gettysburg, Pa., 64,842. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



S. fabale Prime. 



Town Creek, Allegheuy Co., Md. , 64,884. Warm Spring Creek, 

 Morgan Co., W. Va., 64,843. 



Family UNIONIDJE. 



Genus UNIO Retz. 



TJ. complanatus Sol. 



Conecocheague River, westof Hagerstown, Md., 64,824. Sideling 

 Creek, between Allegheny and Washington Counties, Md., 64,825. 

 Potomac River at Hancock, Md., 64,822. Potomac River at 

 Cherry Run, W. Va., 64,823. 



U. productus Con. 



Sideling Creek, between Allegheny and Washington Counties, 

 Md., 64,827. 



U. tappanianus Lea. 



Sideling Creek, Md., 64,820. 



Sideling Creek, at the time ot our visit (Sept. 1892) was merely 

 a chain of pools connected by a slender stream of water running 

 among, rather than over, the rocks of dry intervals. The pools had 

 rocky and muddy bottoms, and in them no less than five species of 

 Unionidae were found, represented by many individuals. No Ancu- 

 losa were found here. 



Stone found U. cariosus and U. radiatus at York Furnace, York 

 Co., Pa. 



Genus MARGARITANA Schum. 

 M. marginata Say. 



Conecocheague River, westof Hagerstown, Md. , 64,820. Potomac 

 River at Hancock, Md., 64,819. Sideling Creek, Md., 64,821. 

 Potomac River at Cherry Run, Morgan Co., W. Va., 64,818. 



M. undulata Say. 



Sideling Creek, Md., 64,828. 



Genus ANODONTA. 



Mr. Witmer Stone found A. fluvlatiUs Dillw. and A. suhcylindrica 

 Lea at York Furnace, York Co. , Pa. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



Explanation of Plate I. 



Fios. 1, 2, 3. Paryphaiiia llynarla Hutton. Three views of the 

 type specimen, drawn by Mr. H. Suter. 



Fig. 4. Dart of Gastrodonta Ik/era Say. Extracted l)y Mr. Robert 

 Walton from a Philadelphia specimen. 



Fig. 5. Genitalia of Omphaliiia fuligbiosa Griff. Specimen from 

 York Furnace, Pa., collected by Mr. Witmer Stone. 



Fi<4. 6. Pohjgyra tridentata fraiidulenta Pils. Type. Specimen 

 from Morgan Co., W. Va. , opposite Hancock. 



Fui. 7. rohjgijra indeiitata Say. Typical. Specimen from Phila- 

 delphia. 



Fki. 8. Pohjcjyra trklentata jiixtidens Pils. Specimen from Cave 

 Town, Md. 



Figs. 9, 10. Velutbia grmulis E. A. Smith. Two views of a speci- 

 men collected by Prof. Angelo Heiljmn at McCormick Bay, 

 Avestern Greenland. Natural size. 



Fig. 11. Papa polmneiisis Pilsbry. Nicaragua. Front view of 

 type specimen, magnified 30 diameters. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



HOMOLOGIES OF THE ALISPHENOID AND PETROMASTOID BONES IN 



VERTEBRATES. 



BY HENKY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



To those unfamiliar with modern views upon the morplioloiify of 

 the skull it may not be known that any difference of opinion still pre- 

 vails among anatomists as to what bones in the skull of the lower ver- 

 tebrates should be regarded as homologues or representatives of the 

 great wing of the sphenoid and petromastoid in the skull of Man and 

 other mammalia. Considering the numerous and important paheon- 

 tological and embryological researches made in recent years, and in 

 view of the fact that the remains of extinct animals and the develop- 

 ment and structure of existing ones have been described so elabor- 

 ately, it might naturally be supposed that the question of the special 

 homologies of the bones of the skull would have long since been de- 

 finitely settled. 



So far, however, from this being the case, as a matter of fact anato- 

 mists, in certain instances at least, on the one hand designate the 

 same bone by different names and on the other, different bones 

 by the same name. The confusion of ideas thus engendered by ob- 

 scure nomenclature makes it often very difficult to understand what 

 particular bone is referred to, especially when the description relates 

 to the cranial bones of some extinct animal. Apart from this con- 

 sideration it is obvious that unless the special homologies of the bones 

 of the skull of different vertebrates are determined, and identical 

 bones be designated by the same name, it will be impossible to assign 

 to an animal its proper position in the order of Nature or determine 

 its phylogeny in the light of evolution, especially if the animal be 

 au extinct one and its natux-al affinities obscure. The hope of dis- 

 sipating some of the confusion prevailing as to the nomenclature of 

 certain of the bones in the skull of Man and other vertebrates prompts 

 the author to submit a resume of some well-known osteological fsicts 

 with, however, an interpretation of the same not hitherto presented, at 

 least as far as known to him. Even if the latter be not accepted, 

 the determination of the synonyms of the bones in question may, at 

 least, not prove superfluous hereafter to co-workers in this field 

 of research. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADEf.PHIA. 33 



The prevailing view among anatomists at the present day appears 

 to be that the petromastoid portion of the temporal bone is developed 

 in Man from three distinct centres of ossification, named respectively 

 prootic, opisthotic and epiotic; that the prootic and opisthotic coalesce 

 to form the pars petrosa, the epiotic giving rise to the specially mas- 

 toid part of the pars mastoidea, and later joining the other two. 



According to this view the homologues of these three centres of 

 ossification of the petromastoid of Man exist in the skull of the 

 lower vertebrata either as distinct bones or more or less coalesced with 

 each other or with adjacent bones. The bone formerly considered as 

 the homologue of the great wing of the sphenoid or the alisphenoid, 



Figs. 1, 2, a is regarded 

 as the prootic or the homo- 

 logue of the upper part of 

 the human pars petrosa. 

 The alisphenoid proper, t, is 

 often but little developed 

 or even absent in the skull 

 of the lower vertebrates ; 

 the bone formerly named 

 occipital externe or par- 

 FiG. 1. Side view of human skull. occipital is regarded as 



the homologue of the opisthotic or epiotic, while the latter is 

 often represented by a small ossification coalesced with the supra oc- 

 cipital. 



So far as known to the author Kerckringius is usually regarded as 

 ,^,=ss^ having been the first anatomist to describe 



the petromastoid portion of the temporal 

 1^ bone as developed from three centres of ossi- 

 fication. Unless the author has misunder- 

 stood the meaning of the text, however, that 

 which Kerckriuirius refers to as being devel- 

 oped from three centres of ossification is not 

 the whole petromastoid but only that part of 

 the pars petrosa which constitutes the mara- 

 millary process or pars mastoidea, the pars 

 petrosa proper having been more or less de- 

 FiG. 2. Interior view veloped before and independent of the three 

 of humau skull. centres. 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



lu the fifth chapter of his Osteogeuia Foetorum/ published in 

 1G90, Kerckringius observes : " Ossis petrosi pars ilia, quae pro- 

 cessum mammilluarem constituit, terna de novo acquisivit ossicula; 

 unum pyriforma, acutiore, sui parte squamoso annectitur; alterum 

 scutum ovale referens, magnitudine, priori vix cedens, media cartila- 

 gine ab eo separatur; uti &c. , tertium ab utroque, quam vis hoc 

 magnitudine neutri sit aequiparandum, vix aciculae majoris caput 

 adaequans sunt autem eo situ ordiue collocata, queni tabula foetus v, 

 mensium, usurpata oculis facilius ad mentem quam verba transmit- 

 tet. . . . Constat ergo os temporuni hoc quinto mense sex dis- 

 tinctis ossiculis; osse videlicet, squamoso, anulo, osse interuam 

 civitatem efformante Ac, tribus notabilibus quae hoc mense ex orta 

 esse diximus. Sexto mense pyriforrae, &c. ovale scutiforme coalue- 

 runtinuuum; tertium uon nihil auctum est magnitudine. 

 Septimo mense jam tertium illud ossiculum duobus mense superiors 

 inter se coalitis accessit." 



That these three centres of ossification, viz., the "pyriforma," 

 "scutum ovale" and "tertium" do not correspond exactly to the 

 prootic, epiotic and opisthotic centres in the sense in which these 

 terms are used by modern anatomists, appears from the text of the 

 latter part of the passage quoted, beginning " constat ergo," the tem- 

 poral bone being said to consist at the fifth month of six distinct os- 

 sicles, which would be impossible if two of the "tribus notabilibus" 

 coalesced to form the "osse internam cavitatem efformante," which, 

 however, as. we shall see hereafter, they do a little later. That by 

 the "osse internam civitatem efformante" is meant that part of the 

 pars petrosa developed before and independent of the appearance of 

 the three distinct ossicles becomes evident from the description of the 

 state of the development of the temporal bone at the previous or 

 fourth mouth, Kerckringius stating that the bone at the end of that 

 month consists of three ossicles : "annulo, " "osse squamoso" and 

 "illo jam commemorato," the latter being the " osse internam " or 

 that part of the pars petrosa developed at that period. ' ' Quarto 

 mense mirum visu, quam cito & quanto perfectione os squamosum 

 magnam partem factum sit osseura. Os petrosum jam rubicunda 

 cartilaginesignavit cavitatis suae formam orgauorum audituscapacem, 

 nihil tamen adhuc praesefert osseum, praeterquam uuam in longitudi- 



1 Theochjii Kerckriugii, Osteogeuia Foetuum. Bibliotheca Anatomica, T. 

 II, Genevae, 1685. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



nem proteusam crassiusculara & inaequalem lineam, annulo sen 

 circulo, autea nomiuato, subjectara &c. paulo lougius pvotensam. 

 Os itaque teinporum hoc meuse tribus constat ossiculis, annulo 

 scilicet,'^ osse squamoso et illo jam comraemorato. 



Further, according to Kerckringius the "pyriforma" (prootic) 

 coalesces at the sixth month with the "scutum ovale" (epiotic) to 

 form one bone, the latter being joined at the seventh month by the 

 " tertium illud ossiculum" (opisthotic), whereas, as we shall show, 

 it is the opisthotic and not the epiotic that combines with the prootic 

 to form the pars petrosa. As to what Kerckringius meant by his 

 " tria petrosi ossis distincta ossicula," we will try to make clear in 

 our description of the manner in which the petromastoid develops 

 in Man. 



The work ' ' De Aure Humana " by Cassebohm appeared in 1734- 

 1735. The description of the development of the ear given by 

 this author, while agreeing in the main with that of Kerckringius, 

 differs from it in some respects. Cassebohm recognized, however, 

 with Kerckringius, the fact of the pars petrosa being more or less os- 

 sified before the appearance of the "tria ossicula," as shown by 

 numerous passages in his text as well as by his excellent figures.' 



In the judgment of the author, Meckel, rather than Kerckringius 

 or Cassebohm, was the first anatomist to describe the petromastoid of 

 the temporal bone as arising from three distinct centres of ossifica- 

 tion. According to this author* the first part of the labyrinth to os- 

 sify is that immediately surrounding the fenestra rotunda, whence 



-' Kerckringius, loc. cit. 



^Tractatus Quatuor Anatomici de Aure Humana. Halae Magdeburgicae, 

 1734 p. 19:--"Kerckringii relatio de osse temporuni in foetu trium meusium, 

 cum mea observatione de tbetu totidem couvenit excepto. . . . Idem ille 

 porro in foetu quinque mensium, partem petrosam, circa processum mastoideuni 

 tria ossicula habere refert, quorum due mense sexto coaulere : verum in his 

 mensibus. in loco indicate nulla ossa peculiariased cartilaginem vidi Tab. 3. Fig. 

 22, lit. K." 



Tractatus tiuatuor &c., p. 45: — Antetiuam tympani membranam removebam, 

 cochleae tnl)er membranae hujus partem superiorem & niediam tangebat & 

 tiuani vis cartilaginem esset, foraminis tanien rotundi (quod ad cochleam & 

 ducit & pertiuet) margo erat osseus partem que annuli posteriorem attingebat." 

 . . . . Cochleae que tuber ex fusco (juem habebat, colorem nigrum acquisi- 

 visset, tunc foraminis rotundi margo allius osseus que apparebat." 



Tractatus Quintus Anatomicus. Halae Magdeburgicae, 1735, p. 15 : — " In foetu 

 trium mensium cochleam, circa foramen rotundum osseam, reliquam vero coch- 

 leae partem cartilagineam. In foetu quatuor mensium cochleam vidi osseam, 

 excepta lamina spirali, quae cartilaginea erat ; banc in foetu quinque mensium 

 osseam demum conspexi." 



* Handbuch der Menschlichen Anatomic, Band 4. Halle & Berlin, 1820, p. 49. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



the spreading ossification produces the floor of the labyrinth. The 

 second centre of ossification arising at the extreme end of the su- 

 perior vertici]^! canal, gives rise to the internal auditory meatus and 

 the floor of the cochlea. The third centre of ossification begins as a 

 scale upon the middle of the internal vertical semi- circular canal. 



It is to be inferred that Meckel supposed the mastoid is developed 

 from the latter centre, for though he does not say so in the passage 

 just referred to, as he had some years previously^ expressed the view 

 that the mastoid is developed from a special centre distinct from that 

 forming the pars petrosa, and as the latter is formed according to 

 Meckel from the first two centres, the only centre remaining to form 

 the mastoid is the third centre, that beginning as a scale upon the in- 

 ternal vertical semi-circular canal. 



In his well known work on the temporal bone Kallmann also ex- 

 presses the view that the mastoid portion is developed from a special 

 centre of ossification, offering as a proof thereof the fact of his being 

 able to scrape off, in certain specimens of the dried skull, the third 

 oval centre of ossification without injuring the semi- circular canal.'' 

 In 1848 Rathke, in describing the development of the turtle, re- 

 garded the two bones, the rocher" and occipital externe^ of Cuvier, 

 which, according to this author, form the labyrinth, as corresponding 

 when taken together to the pars petrosa of the temporal bone of 

 higher vertebrates: — " Die Knorpel Kapsel, welche sich auch bein 

 den Schildkroeten um den hilutigeu Theil des Ohr labyrinthes bildet 

 und anfangs eine sehr einfache Form und nur sehr diinne Wandung 

 hat, bleibt in ihrer gegen das Gehirn gekehrten Halfte bei raehreren 

 Bchildkrceten (namentlich in den Gattungen Emys und Chelonia), 

 wenn nicht gar bei alien, zeitlebens knorplig. Ihre iiussere und 

 groessere Halfte hingegen verknochert allmaehlig, so jedoch, dass 

 in ihr zwei Knochenstiicke einstehen, von denen ein jedes einen Theil 

 des hiiutigen Ohrlabyrinthes, namentlich Theile der halbzirkel 

 formigen Kanale einschliesst und von denen nur das eine mit dem 

 Namen des Felsenbeins belegt, das andere von Cuvier nicht recht 



5 Archiv, Band 1, 1815, p. 636. 



"Die vergleichcnde Osteologie des Schlafenbeins, Hannover, 1837. p. 3 : — 

 " Dieser Knoclien kern zcigt sicb am trocknen skelet als ein dvales Knopicben, 

 das ich leiebt abkratzeu konnte, oline die kanale zn verk'tzen, znui zeicbeu 

 dass dieser Tbeil als ein besonderes stiick entsteht." 



'' Alispbenoid, Prootic. 



* Paroccipitiil, Opisthotic. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



passend 0.s oceipitale extenuuii genaunt vvordeu ist. Beide Knochen- 

 stiicke nun, die zusamnieiigenomnien eigentlich niclits anderes als 

 das Felseubeiii der hohern Thiere vorstellen." 



About the s-aine time the late Professor Owen'", in referring to the 

 views of Kerckringius as to there being "tria petrosa ossis distincta 

 ossicula," called attention to the primary independence of the base 

 of the processus mastoideus as " a fact of much more significance 

 than its brief and transitory manifestation would lead the author to 

 divine." He further observed that "in the cold blooded vertebrates 

 the mastoid retains with a few exceptions its primary embryonic dis- 

 tinctness as an independent element of the skull." It should be 

 mentioned in this connection, however, that as Professor Owen re- 

 garded the bone now considered in the lower vertebrata as the 

 squamosal to be the homologue of the special centre of ossification of 

 the human pars mastoidea, he called it accordingly the mastoid. 



In 18G1 the view of Meckel as to the original distinctness in the 

 embryo of the three parts of the petromastoid portion of the tem- 

 poral bone was confirmed by Kolliker" in his description of the de- 

 velopment of that bone in Man. 



Finally, Professor Huxley in his lectures as Hunterian Professor 

 at the Royal College of Surgeons of England, in 1863, and em- 

 bodied substantially in his " Lectures on the Elements of Compara- 

 tive Anatomy," '■ developed at length and in detail the view that the 

 petromastoid portion of the tempoi'al bone in man is developed from 

 three centres as described by Meckel and K()lliker, and further that 

 these three centres are re})resented in the lower vertebrata as more 

 or less distinct bones as hekl by Rathke and Owen. 



The two bones described by Rathke as forming in the turtle the 

 "felsenbein" were named by Prof. Huxley the prootic''^ and opistho- 

 tic"; that regarded by Owen as the mastoid was considered by Prof 

 Huxley to be the squamosal'', and the "specially mastoid" part of 

 the "pars mastoidea" the "scutum ovale referens" of Kerckringius 

 was named by Prof. Huxley the epiotic'". 



"•' Ui'bei-(lit> Eiitwickcluii^ der Sehildkrotcu. BrauiischweiK, 1S48, p. 52. 



'"Ou the Archetype aiul Uumologies of the Vertebnite Skeleton. London, 

 1848, p. 29. 



'• Eutvvickhuig.-igeschichte des Menschou imd der Hoheren Thiere. Leipzig, 

 p. 32[». 



1- London, 1864. 



••^ Op. cit. p. 222. 



'^Op. cit. p. 222. 



'»Op. cit. p. 230. 



"'Op. cit. p. 155. 




38 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



The view of the morphology and terminology of the periotic cap- 

 sule and adjacent bones as sustained by Prof. Huxley and most other 

 anatomists of the present day is based upon two assumptions : 



1st. That the petro- mastoid portion ot the temporal bone in Man 

 develops from three distinct centers of ossification named respectively 

 prootic, opisthotic and epiotic and represented in the skull of the 

 the lower vertebrata by three bones bearing respectively the same 

 three names and more or less coalesced with each other or adjacent 

 bones. 



2d. That the bone lying in front of the exit of the inferior max- 

 illiary division of the fifth nerve should be regarded in the lower 

 vertebrata as the homologue of the great wing of the sphenoid in Man 

 and named the alisi)henoid, and the bone lying behind such exit as 

 homologous with the upper part of the pars petrosa of Man and 

 named the prootic. 



The conclusion that follows if these two assumptions be admitted, 

 will be that the alisphenoid or homologue of the great wing of the 

 sphenoid is often but little developed or may be even absent in the 

 skull of the lower vertebrata, its place being supplied by the prootic 

 bone or the homologue of the upper part of the pars petrosa of man. 

 Notwithstanding the high authority of Meckel, Kolliker, Huxley 

 and others, among whom may be mentioned the late W. Kitchen 

 Parker, universally conceded while living to be the highest auth()rity 

 on all (luestions pertaining to the develoiMuent and morphology of 

 the skull, the three-fold development of the petro-mastoid portion of 

 the temporal bone has been denied by anatomists and notably by the 

 late Dr. Joseph Leidy. '" 



The author having had occasion recently to study the development 

 of the temporal bone in Man has satisfied himself, at least, that the 

 mastoid portion of the petrosal is not developed from a special centre 

 of ossification but from the petrosal and s(iuaiiiosal portions of the 

 temporal as described by Leidy,'"* and that there is no homologue, 

 therefore, in the skull of Man, of the bone described as the ef)iotic 

 in that of the lower vertebrata. J'urther, while there is no doubt 

 that the petrosal part of the temporal in INlan is developed, as we shall 



"Science, Vol. 1. No. 18. June 8, 1883, p. 507. 

 18 Op. cit. p. 507, Human Anatomy, 1889, p. 116. 




1894.] NATUKAIi SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



see presently, from two distinct centres of ossification, these two 

 centres, in the judgment of the author are not so exactly repre- 

 sented in the skull of the lower vertebi-ata that the names pro- 

 otic and opisthotic can be given them. 



At a period about the middle of the fifth mouth of intra- uterine 

 life the temporal bone exhibits, according to the dissections of the 

 author, three distinct ossifications : the squamosal, the tympanic and 

 a ring surrouudiug the foramen rotundum ot the otherwise cartila- 

 ginous labyrinth. A little later a second centre of ossification makes 

 its appearance at the extreme end of the superior vertical canal. 

 From these two centres of ossification, which Ave will name the upper 

 and lower otic, as indicating their situation in Man, there arise, due 

 to progressive ossification extending through the labyrinth, the pars 

 petrosa and two- thirds of the pars mastoidea of the temporal, the 

 remaining third of the latter being developed from the squamosal. 

 From the lower otic ring-like ossific centre surrounding the foramen 

 rotundum arise all that part of the pars petrosa seen beneath the 

 cranium, viz.: the lower part of the cochlea, the promonotoiy, and 

 lower part of the fenestra ovalis, the fenestra rotunda, the lower 

 arm of the posterior semicircular canal, the lower part of the facial 

 canal, jugular fossa, the carotid canal and the floor of the tyrapan- 

 num. From the upper otic ossific centre, (that appearing on the 

 superior vertical canal) arise all that part of the pars petrosa seen 

 within the cranium except that entering into the formation of the 

 jugular fossa, viz.: the upper part of the cochlea including the cupola 

 and the base, the internal auditory meatus, the upper part of the 

 fenestra ovalis, the ujjper arm of the posterior and the superior and 

 vertical semicircular canals, the upper part of the facial canal, the 

 tegmeii tympani. 



The various structures just described as respectively produced from 

 the two ossific centres having coalesced about the eighth month"* or even 

 earlier, to form the osseous labyrinth, there is developed as a continuous 

 outgrowth of the latter the pyramidal and mastoid portions of the 

 petrosal, the mastoid being formed more especially by outgrowths 

 from the posterior and external semicircular canals. The outgrowth 

 from the posterior semicircular canal appears as an "elliptical islet "^" 



'"It should be mentioned in this connection that it is often impossible to de- 

 termine exactly the age of a foetus, since foetuses of the same age vary as re- 

 gards length, weight and develoiinu'iit. 



-""Epiotic," Huxley, Op. cit. p. 155. 




40 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



(Fi_<i'. 3, 4, <?), in the cartilage situated between the squamosal, parie- 

 tal and occipital bones and consti- 

 tuting, therefore, part of the wall of 

 the cranium. The elliptical islet 

 having been developed, a second 

 "quadrate " islet (Fig. 3, 4, q) now 

 appears in the cartilage and more 

 particularly in the part of it lying 

 between the elliptical islet and the 

 squamosal. The two islets, the ellip- 

 tical and quadrate, subsequently 



uniting together form the mastoid 

 Fiff. 3. Temporal bone of human ^. „ ' . . -_,> , , 



foetus. portion oi the petrosal. It the lat- 



ter be developed in the manner just described then the " pyrifor- 

 ma " and "scutum ovale" of Kerckringius would be the parts 

 described by Leidy as the "elliptical" and "quadrate" 

 islets, since the former, like the latter, "coalescent in unum" 



but not to the prootic and opistho- 

 tic centres, since the latter are de- 

 veloped and coalesce before the islets 

 even appear, and for the reason 

 already given that it is the pyri- 

 forma or prootic and the scutum 

 ovale or epiotic that unite according 

 to Kerckringius, not the prootic 

 and opisthotic. 



The third ossicle of Kerckringius, however, the "vix aciculye 

 niajoris caput adaequans" corresponds to that part of the lower otic 

 or opisthotic that, growing outward and backward, makes its ap- 

 /, I pearance at the edge of the tympanic ring at an 



'■ ^ early period of intra-uterine life and which soon 

 combines, as we have seen, with the upper otic or 

 prootic to form the pars petrosa, the latter subse- 

 quently uniting with the squamosal to form the 

 mastoid portion of the temporal. 



If, however, there is no distinct mastoideus or 

 epiotic centre of ns.sification in the temporal bone of 

 Fig. 5. Upper auter-jyj-j^j^ ^,^^^ interpretation is there to be offered as to 



lor jjortion oi .skull ' 



of cod-fisli. the homologies of the bones present in the fish and 



Fig. 4. Temporal bone of human 

 foetus. 




1894.] 



NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



41 



Fig. (j. Side vit'w of skull of cod-fish. 



turtle and described by Cuvier -' as mastoideus and occipital externe, 

 bv Owen "' as mastoid and paroecipital, and by Huxley '''^ as squa- 

 mosal and epiotic in tlie tisli and squamosal and opisthotic in 

 the turtle? In reply to such query, in the judgment of the author 

 the bone, No. 8, (Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8) described by Cuvier as mastoidien 

 and bv Owen as mastoid in the skull of the lower vertebrates, 

 should be regarded as it is by Huxley and most modern 



anatomists, as the homologue of the 

 squamosal (Fig. 3, s) of the tenqjoral 

 of iMau. The bone No. 4, (Figs. 5, 

 8, the occipital externe (perch) Cu- 

 vier, the paroecipital of Owen, the 

 epiotic of Huxley in fish, opisthotic 

 in turtle, is not, however, represent- 

 ed as a distinct bone in the skull of 

 Man but as the "eminentia aspera"^* 

 of the occipital bone or the "scabrous ridge extended from the 

 middle of the C(jndyle towards the roots of the mastoid process." ^^ 



The name occipital externe, or its 

 English equivalent external occipi- 

 tal, may as well then be retained 

 for the bone No. 4 as simply ex- 

 pressing the fact that there exists in 

 • Fig. 7. Skull of python. the skuU of the lower vertebrates a 



bone lying external to the supra and ex-occipital irrespective of any 

 preconceived hypotheses. The names paroecipital and epiotic should 

 be discarded, as the former implies that the bone No. 4 is the para- 

 pophysis of the first cranial vertebra, the latter that it is the 

 honnjlogue of the special centre of ossification of the mastoid in Man. 

 It has been urged iu favor of the bone No. 4 being called the epi- 

 otic in the fish that it eaters into the formation of the ear-chamber, 

 its inner surface being excavated for the reception of part ot the 

 posterior and external semicircular canal. Such argument, however, 

 loses all force when it is remembered that the exoccipital is similarly 



^^ Histoire Naturelle des Poissons, Tome 1, p. 236. 

 2^ Anatoniv of Vertebrates, Vol. 1, p. 97. 

 23 Op. cit. p. 174. 



^^8. T. H. Soenimeriiis "De Corporis Himmui Fabrica," T. 1, 1704, p. 105. 

 25 Alexander Monro. "The Anatomy of the Humane Bones," Edinburgh, 1732, 

 110. 



4 




42 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



excavated, and that the latter bone, together 

 with the alispheuoid (prootic) petrosal (opis- 

 thotic) S(|uamosal and post- frontal bones 

 enter into the formation of the otocrane. It 

 should be mentioned in this connection that 

 the external occipital bone, No. 4, (Figs. 5 

 and 8), though pi^esenting in the turtle the 

 same characters and similar relations as in 

 the fish, is usually described in that animal 

 and in the alligator, etc., as the opisthotic bone, 

 the epiotic being supposed then to be repre- 

 sented by an independent centre of ossifica- 

 tion which, while distinct at an early period 

 of life, later coalesces with the supra-occipi- 

 Fig. 8. Posterior view of tal, No. 3+ (Fig. 9). 



skull of turtle. Even if such be universally the case it 



would only prove that either the supra-occipital develops in reptilia 

 from two centres in the embryo, or that there exists a bone (epiotic) 

 in the skull of reptiles that has no homologue in that of fish or Man, 

 not that the bone No. 4 is the opisthotic. Indeed, as we shall see 

 presently, there is no reason to believe that an opisthotic bone that 

 is the supposed homologue of the rocher or petrosal in the fish (cod) 

 of the lower part of the pars petrosa of Man exists in the skull of 

 the reptile (turtle) at all. 



Admitting that the petromastoid portion of the temporal bone in 

 Man develops from two centres of ossification, it remains now to de- 

 termine whether there exists in the skull of a cod-fish, snake, turtle 

 or alligator the homologue of these two centres, two bones to which 

 the names prootic and opisthotic can be appropriately given and 

 which, taken together, represent therefore the pars . petrosa of the 

 of the temporal bone in Man. 



In considering this question let us begin by first pointing out in 

 what respect the bone No. 6, (Fig. 6) in the cod resembles and 

 differs from the prootic or upper portion of the human pars 

 petrosa, (Fig. 2, p). It resembles it in its inner concavity 

 usually supporting the anterior part of the vestibule and the 

 anterior vertical semicircular canal. It differs from it in not 

 presenting a fenestra ovalis, a cochlear roof, osseous semicircular 

 canals, internal auditory meatus or tegmen tympani, no such parts 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



being present in the cod, and in not transmitting the portio dura of 

 the seventh nerve, the latter also not existing in the cod-fish. ^* If the 

 bone No. 6 in the cod-fish be compared, however, with the great 

 wing of the sphenoid in Man (Figs. 1, 2, a) it will be observed that it 

 agrees with the latter (alisphenoid) in articulating vath. that part of 

 the basi- cranial axis corresponding to the basi-sphenoid, and with the 

 parietals in entering into the formation of the lateral wall of the 

 cranium, supporting the mesencephalon, and in being notched anter- 

 iorly (perforated iu the carp) for the transmission of the superior and 

 inferior maxillary branches of the fifth nerve. The bone No. 6 in 

 the cod differs from the alisphenoid in Man, as already mentioned, in 

 supporting part ot the membranous labyrinth and in the notch trans- 

 mitting the inferior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve being situated 

 in the anterior part of the bone rather than in the posterior part as 

 is the case in Man. 



In the consideration of the relative posterior of the notch v in the 

 bone No. 6 in the fish and that of the foramen ovale in the alis- 

 phenoid of Man, (Fig. 2, fo), the fact appears to have been entirely 

 lost sight of that the notch or foramen in the fish corresponds to two 

 distinct foramina in Man : the foramen rotundum, (Fig. 2, r) and 

 the foramen ovale, (Fig. 2, fo) transmitting respectively the super- 

 ior and inferior maxillary branches of the fifth nerve, and that the 

 part of the notch in the fish, (Fig. 6, V) corresponding to the foramen 

 rotundum in Man, is situated anteriorly just as is the case in Man. 

 The situation of the exit of the superior maxillary nerve is therefore 

 substantially the same in the bone No. 6 in the cod (and absolutely 

 so in the carp) as in the alisphenoid of Man. The objection that 

 might still be urged that that part of the notch corresponding to the 

 foramen ovale is situated anteriorly in the fish but posteriorly in 



^^ The author is familiar with the view entertained by some anatomists that 

 hyomaiulibular branches of the fifth nerve represent in the fish the branches of 

 the portio dura of the seventh nerve or facial in Man. Such an interpretation 

 is, however, untenable, being based upon the assumption that the quadrate bone 

 (jujral caisse hypotympanic) in the fish is thehomologue of the incus in Man, the 

 articulare corresponding then to the malleus. As the quadrate and malleus are, 

 however, developed as ossifications oi the proximal ends of Meckel's cartilage 

 (mandibular arch) the quadrate must be the homologue of the malleus, not the 

 incus, if it be homologous with either of the ear bones. The hyomandiliular bone 

 (temporal mastoidien epitympanic) in the fish is homologous with the incus, 

 these bones Ix'ing developed through the ossification of the proximal ends of the 

 hyoid arch. It must be admitted, however, that this last view leaves still un- 

 cxplaini'd why the articulare in the mandibular arch of the fish and the same 

 bone together with the others entering into the formation of the lower jaw of the 

 alligator are not represented in Man. 




44 PKOOEBDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Mail has no significance, since in Man and mamtnals generally there is 

 always a small portion of the alisphenoid behind the foramen ovale, 

 amounting, indeed, in the sheep to about one- half the bone. 



The statement often made that the bone lying behind the exit of 

 the fifth nerve is the homologue of the upper part of the human pars 

 petrosa is simply not correct so far as concerns Man and mammals. 



In view of the facts just mentioned some anatomists have con- 

 sidered the bone No. 6 in the fish as the homologue of the alisphen- 

 oid in Man and have so named it. Other anatomists, on the other 

 hand, impressed with the fact that the bone su})ports a part of the 

 membranous labyrinth, have regarded it as the homologue of the 

 upper part of the human pars petrosa and called it accordingly pro- 

 otic. In the judgment of the author an insuperable objection to 

 accepting the latter view is that it involves the inevitable but absurd 

 conclusion that its homologue, or the prootic portion of the pars 

 petrosa, must transmit the superior and inferior maxillary branches 

 of the fifth nerve. On the other hand, it might be urged that the 

 bone No. 6 cau not be the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man 

 since the latter never supports any part of the membranous labyrinth. 

 In reply to the latter objection, though at the risk of committing a 

 petitio priucipii, the author must say that it is just in this respect 



that the skull of the cod- 

 fish differs from that of 

 INIan : The bone No. 6, 

 in the fish, the homo- 

 logue of the alisphenoid 

 in Man, protects the an- 

 terior part of the laby- 

 rinth as is done by the 

 upper part of the human 

 pars petrosa, the differ- 

 ence being conditioned 

 by the part of the mem- 

 branous labyrinth being 

 Fig. 9. Interior view of auditory region of alligator, relatively enormously 



developed in the fish, the osseous covering but little so, whereas in 

 Man the labyrinth is but little developed while the pars petrosa is 

 much so. 



If this view be correct then the bone No. 6 in the fish 

 must be regarded as the hoinologiu! of the alisphenoid in Man 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



and the name given to it by Cuvier of grand aile or its English equiv- 

 alent alisphenoid (Owen) retained." If the bone No. 6 in the skull of 

 the python (Fig. 7), turtle (Fig. 10), alligator (Figs. 9, 11), be 

 compared with that so numbered in the cod-fish (Fig. 6), it will 

 be found that while it resembles the latter in articulating with the 

 basisphenoid and parietal bones, entering into the formation of 

 the lateral wall of the cranium, presenting a notch or foramen for 

 the transmission of the superior and inferior maxillary branches 

 of the fifth nerve and protecting the anterior part of the organ 

 of hearing, it differs from it in transmitting the filaments of the 

 portio dura and mollis of the seventh nerve and in forming the 

 anterior half of the fenestra ovalis of the vestibule. 



In the latter respects, and in protecting the anterior part of the 

 labyrinth, the bone No. 6 in the reptile certainly resembles 



Fig. 10. Interior view of auditory region of turtle. 



the upper or prootic part of the human pars petrosa and would 

 be more appropriately named, therefore, the prootic than the bone 

 No. 6 in the fish. The fact, however, of this bone in the reptile 

 transmitting by notch or foramen'^^ the maxillary branches of the 



2" It should be mentioned in this connection that there are present in the 

 skulls of certain fishes (salmon and carp) three bones which have been regarded 

 as the prootic, alisphenoid and orhito-splienoid. As the latter bone, the most 

 anterior of the three, is, however, inconstant and as we regard it when present as 

 an interorbital bone, not the orltito-splienoid, its presence or absence will not 

 affect the argument as stated above, the so-called prootic in the carp, for ex- 

 ample, being the alisphenoid, and the alisiihenoid being the orbito-sphenoid. 



2« It will be observed in the case of the python (Fig. 7) that the two foramina 

 in the bone No. 6 are as well marked as the foramen rotundum and foramen 

 ovale are in the alisphenoid of Man. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



fifth uerve is irreconcilable, as in the case of the fish, with the idea 

 that it is the homologue of the upper prootic portion of the human 

 pars petrosa. On the other hand, if the bone No. 6 in the reptile be 

 regarded as the homologue of the alisphenoid in Man the difiiculty 

 presents itself that the former enters into the formation of the fenestra 

 ovalis and transmits in the reptile the filaments of the facial and 

 acoustic nerves, which the alisphenoid of INIan never does, the fenestra 

 rotunda and the nerves being confined to the pars petrosa. With 

 the view of reconciling these difiiculties the bone No. 6 in the reptile 

 has been regarded by some anatomists as consisting really of two 

 bones fused into one, the anterior and posterior parts being viewed 

 respectively as alisphenoid and prootic bones. 



The study of the development of the reptilian skull offers some 

 confirmation of this view, since as a matter of fact, according to 

 Parker,"'' the bone No. 6 in the snake develops from two centres, the 

 anterior of which is regarded as the alisphenoid, the posterior as the 

 prootic. If the latter view be accepted the result of development in 

 the skull of the suake is very different from that in Man, since the 

 prootic ossification, instead of combining with the opisthotic to form 

 the pars petrosa, unites with the alisphenoid to form one bone. 

 Further, it does not follow because the bone No. 6 develops from two 

 centers of ossification that it must necessarily be regarded as consist- 

 ing of two distinct bones, any more than the basi sphenoid must be 

 regarded as consisting of three bones because it develops from three 

 centres.^" It seems to the author that the view most reconcilable 

 with the facts of development as well as those relating to the adult 

 condition of the skull is to regard the bone No. 6 in the reptile as the 

 homologue of the bone so numbered in the fish and of the alisphenoid 

 in Man. 



In the absence of a pars petrosa in the skull of the reptile and 

 bird some other bone or bones must fulfil the functions of that bone 

 in supporting and protecting the labyrinth and in transmitting the 

 facial and acoustic nerves. These functions are filled in the reptile 

 more or less by the bones Nos. 6, 4, 2, 3, which we regard as the 

 alisphenoid, external occipital, ex-occipital and supra-occipital, or. 



29 The Morphology of the Skull, London, 1877, p. 204. 



^ One for the mediau basisphenoid, two for the symmetrical basitemporals, 

 the homologiies of the liugulae sphenoidal es of Man. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



in regard to the latter more particularly, its inferior and internal 

 part (epiotic)," No. 3 + (Fig-. 9). 



There remains now for consideration the question as to how much 

 of the lower portion of the human pars petrosa is represented in the 

 skull of the lower vertebrata. In other words, is there any distinct 

 bone in the skull of the lower vertebrata to which the name opistho- 

 tic can be appropriately given ? In the skull of the cod-fish, as in 

 that of the Gadidae generally, there exists, though often but little 

 developed or even absent in many fishes, a large and conspicuous 

 bone, No. 16, (Fig. 6) which articulates with the basi- occipital, basi- 

 sphenoid, ex-occipital, par-occipital, squamosal and alisphenoid bones 

 and forms the posterior lateral wall of the cranium. This bone. No. 

 16, on account of supporting that part of the membranous labyx'inth 

 containing the otolithes has been usually regarded by anatomists (Cuv- 

 ier, Owen, Huxley) as corresponding to the whole of the human pars 

 petrosa or at least to some part of it, and has been accordingly named 

 rocher, petrosal, opisthotic, etc. In the fish the labyrinth, however, is 

 not exclusively and entirely enclosed by a special osseous covering as in 

 Man. The cavity enclosing the organ of hearing is formed not only 

 by the bone No. 16, but by the alisphenoid, ex-occipital, par- occipital, 

 squamosal and post- frontal bones as well. It opens widely into the 

 cranial cavity. It presents nothing comparable to the fenestra ovalis 

 and fenestra rotunda of the pars petrosa. Such being the case it is 

 impossible to determine whether the bone No. 16 in the fish repre- 

 sents the whole, or only a portion and more particularly the lower or 

 opisthotic portion of the human pars petrosa. The author would 

 therefore prefer to call the bone No. 16 in the fish simply the rocher 

 or its equivalent, the petrosal, as indicating the probability of it cor- 

 responding to some part of the human pars petrosa. 



The term opisthotic is objectionable as not only implying that the 

 bone No. 16 in the fish corresponds to the lower or opisthotic part of 

 the human pars petrosa, for which view there is no evidence, but 

 further, for the reason already given that it is the bone No. 4 in the 

 fish, not the bone No. 16, that is the homologue of the external 

 occipital, the so-called opisthotic in the turtle. Indeed, the bone 

 No. 16 of the fish does not appear to be represented as such either in 



■^1 Even Parker admits that " in some fonus the periotic bones do not arise 

 separately, but the supra-occipital and cx-occipitals extend into the epiotic and 

 opisthotic regions respectively." 0\>. cit. p. 349. 




48 



PROCEEDIKUS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1894. 



the reptile or in the higher vertebrata. In some respects it is a 

 peculiarly ichthyic bone though not invariably present even within 

 the limits of the class, as already mentioned. 



The ear-chamber in reptiles is more or less closed, internally at 

 least, in the adult condition by three bones separated by a Y-shaped 

 suture distinctly visible in the longitudinally divided skull (Fig. 9). 

 The two lower. No. 2, 6, (Fig. 9,) of the three bones are situated 

 on either side of the vertical stem of the Y-shaped suture, the third 

 remaining bone No. 3 within the diverging branches of the latter. 

 Externally the osseous vestibule presents a fenestra rotunda fnr 

 (Fig. 11), situated entirely within the bone No. 2 and a fenestra ovalis, 

 fno, the posterior half of which is formed by the margin of the bone just 

 mentioned, the anterior half by that of the bone No. 6. The mem- 

 branous labyrinth consists of a vestibule, semicircular caual and, in 

 the turtle and alligator, of a rudimentary cochlea. The fenestne are 

 closed by membranes in the living animal and to that of the fenestra 



p ovalis is attached a col- 



/J umellar-like bone which, 



on account of being con- 

 nected with the mem- 

 brana tympani, is re- 

 garded as the homologue 

 of the stapes of the hu- 

 man ear. The membra- 

 na tympani is attach- 

 ed in turn to bone 

 No. 28, (Figs. 7, 10) 

 usually called the quad- 

 rate and regarded as 

 representing either the tympanic bone or the malleus in Man.^'^ 



The tympanic membrane being so superficially situated, neither 

 external auditory meatus nor external ear can be said to exist in 

 reptiles. The nearest appi'oach to an external ear is seen in the 

 ci'ocodilia which are provided with two cutaneous folds situated just 



117" 

 2. 



Fig. 11. 



External view of auditory region of 

 alligator. 



■'■' Some of the reasons that may be regarded in favor of accepting the latter 

 hypothesis as the correct one have already been stated. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



49 



outside the membrana tynipaui which, when approximated, close the 



entrance thereto. In the cro- 

 codilia each tympanum (Fig. 

 12, T) is not only provided 

 with its own lateral Eustachian 

 tube proper, LE, but the two 

 tympana communicate directly 

 with each other superiorly by 

 means of a passage traversing 

 the supra occipital bone, S, 

 and inferiorly by anterior 



Fig. 12. Diagram of tympauic canals of lateral passages, C, descending 

 alligator. from the floor of the tympanum 



into the anterior branch. A, of median Eustachian tube, ME, situated 

 just behind the posterior nares and indirectly by posterior lateral pas- 

 sages, B, given off on either side from the lateral Eustachian tubes proper, 

 LE, and terminating in the posterior branch, P, of the median Eus- 

 tachian tube, ME. Further passages extend from each tympanum, 

 Q, through the quadrate, thence by a membranous tube into the 

 articulare of the lower jaw.'*^ 



In the turtle the most posterior of the two lower bones entering 

 into the formation of the ear-chamber is a distinct bone. No. 4, (Fig. 

 10), and, for reasons already given, is regarded by the author as homo- 

 logous with the external occipital of the fish and is therefore similarly 

 numbered and named. In the lizard, python and alligator the 

 functions of the external occipital bone of the turtle, No. 4, (Fig. 10), 

 are, however, filled by what appears, in the adult skull at least, to be 

 a part of the ex-occipital bone, No. 2*, (Fig. 9). At an early period 

 of development in the snake and possibly in all reptilia, this part of 

 the ex-occipital exists as a distinct bone, notwithstanding that in later 

 life it may have coalesced to such an extent with the ex-occii)ital 

 that its original distinctness is entirely lost. If such be the case, 

 which is not at all improbable, then that part of the ex-occipital in 

 the alligator, No. 2*, (Fig. 9), entering into the formation of the in- 

 ternal ear-chamber, should lie regarded as the homologue of the ex- 

 ternal occipital No. 4, (Fig. 10), in the turtle. The only essential 



33 Windischmann. De Penitiori auris in Ampliibiis structura, 1831. 

 Owen, Phil. Trans., 1850. 



Stannius, Haudbuch der Zootomie, Zweite Aufl., Zweites Buch, 18.56, pp. 

 58, 164. 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



difference in the two would then be that in the alligator the external 

 occipital coalesces with the ex-occipital, whereas in the turtle it re- 

 mains a distinct bone throughout life. It will be observed, how- 

 ever, whether the osseous part in question be regarded as an out- 

 growth of the ex-occipital or as a distinct bone coalescing with the lat- 

 ter, that in neither case would the name opisthotic be a^jpropriate, 

 since this bone or part, being homologous with the external occipital, 

 should be so named. 



It has already been mentioned that that part of the supra- occipital 

 entering into the formation of the ear-chaiuber is said to be developed 

 from a special centre of ossification. No. 8 + (Fig- 9), and in accordance 

 with the idea of it being the homologue of the epiotic centre of the 

 human mastoid, named the epiotic. As there is no reason, however, 

 for supposing that such a third centre of ossification exists, even if the 

 part in question be characteristic of reptiles, the name epiotic should 

 be discarded l)ecauseitis misleading. Finally, as the author regards 

 the bone No. 6, (Figs, ti, 7, 9, 10), not as the prootic but as the homo- 

 logue of the alisphenoid in Man, (Figs. 1, 2, a), there is no reason for 

 retaining the names prootic, opisthotic and epiotic.^* 



Indeed, the periotic bones, or bone so named, should not be regarded 

 as constituting any part of the proper cranial wall ])ut as special 

 ossifications of the ear-chamber depending upon the extent of the 

 development of the organ of hearing. 



In a general way it may be said that the transitory conditions 

 through which the human ear passes in the course of its develo])- 

 ment are more or less permanently retained as such in the organ 

 of hearing in the lower vertebrata. Such being the case we cannot 

 expect to find the protective osseous covering of the ear in the higher 

 vertebrata equally well developed in the lower ones. On the con- 

 trary, in proportion as the ear is undeveloped, we may expect to 

 find any of the adjacent bones forming the wall of the cranium pro- 

 tecting and entering into the formation of the ear-chamber, just as the 

 tymj)anum is formed in birds by the basisphenoid, squamosal and 

 ex-occipital rather than by the pai"s petrosa as in Man. There is no 

 more reason for supposing that there is an archetypal temporal bone, 



•'■'The author does not refer to the skulls of birds, siuce the latter heiug 

 specialized reptiles the disposition of the parts in question, as might be expected, 

 is essentially the same. 



It should be nienlioued, however, that the membrana tympani is not attach- 

 ed in birds to the quadrate bone as in reptiles but to the outer margin of the tym- 

 panum. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



the different parts of which must exist in all vertebrata, than for 

 believing that there is an archetypal vertebra and that the skull 

 must consist of several of the same, at least in a Goethe-Oken sense. 



It does not follow, however, because a difference of opinion may 

 prevail among morphologists as to the special homologies of certain 

 of the bones of the head that there sliould be any question as to the 

 truth of the general doctrine of the unity of organization of the skull, 

 so firmly established by Cuvier and others. 



On the supposition that the higher vertebrata have descended from 

 the lower, it is to be expected that the general structure of the 

 skull should be the same in both, the fundamental characters of the 

 skull of the former having been acquired by inheritance from that 

 of the latter. On the other hand, the skull should present greater or 

 less modifications according to the special nature of the different 

 vertebrata, such modifications being induced by the causes of varia- 

 tion incidental to different kinds of life. 



The skull, like the organism in general, is not made according to 

 a Platonic idea or pattern, but grows, its characters lieing acquired 

 by inheritance as modified by variation. 




52 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



g [Synonyms of Certain of the Bones of the Head According 

 TO French, German and English Anatomists. 



CUVIER (1). 



Occipital lateral. 



Occipital superieiir( perch 

 reptiles ami birds). 



Occipital externe (percli, 

 reptiles), apophyse mas- 

 toid (mammals). 



Grand aile (fishes, birds, 

 mammals), roeher (rep- 

 tiles). 



Mastoidien (fishes and 

 reptiles), temporal (birds 

 and monotremes). 



Aile orbitaire. 



Roeher (fishes, birds and 

 mammals). 



Jugal. 



Temporal (lizards, croco 

 dilesand mammals), Juga 

 (birds, monotremes). 



Caisse (ophidia, croco- 

 diles, mammals). Os tym- 

 panique (lizards), ()s car- 

 re (birds). 



Temporal (fislies), Tym- 

 panique (batrachia). 



Symplectique (fishes). 



Tympanal (fishes). 



Jugal (fishes and ba- 

 trachia). 



(1) 



Lecons d" Anatomic Com 



l)ar('e. 



R('gne Animal. 



Histoiie Natnrelle dt>s 



Pois.sons. 



Ossements Fos.siles. 



MECKEIj (2). 



Seitliehes unteres Hintcr- 

 hauptbein. 



Hinterhauptschuppe. 



Seitliehes oberes, HInter 

 hauptbein. 



Felsenbein (fishes and 

 reptiles), Grosserkeil 



beinriiigel 

 mammals). 



Zitzenbein. 



(birds and 



Grosserkeilbeinttiigel. 

 Felsenbein (fishes). 



Jochbein. 

 Schlafenbeinschuppe. 



Pauke. 

 Oberesgelenkbein. 



Grittelformiges, Stiick 

 des Schliifenbeins. 



Scheibenformiges Stiick 

 des Schlafenbeins. 



Unteresgelenkbein. 



(2^ 



System der vergleichen 

 den Anatoinie 



OWKN (3). 



Ex-occipital. 



Huxley (4). 



Ex-occipital. 



Superoccipital;Snpraoccipi- 



tal. 



Paroccipital. 

 Alisphonoid. 



Mastoid. 



Orbitospen- 



oid. 

 Petrosal. 



Malar. 

 Squamosal. 



Tympanic. 



Epitympanic 

 (fishes). 



Mesotympanic 

 (fishes). 



Pretympanic 

 (fifshes). 



Hypotympan- 

 ic (fishes). 



(3) 



Archetype of 

 Vertebrate 



Skeleton. 

 Anatomy of 

 Vertebrates. 



Epiotic in fish, 

 Opisthotic in 

 reptile. 



Piootic. 



Squamosal. 



Alisphenoid. 

 Opisthotic. 



Jugal. 



Quadrato-ju- 

 ■gal. 



Quadrate. 



Hyomandibu- 

 lar (fishes). 



Symplectic 



(fishes). 



Metapterygoid 

 (fishes). 



Quadrate 



(fishes). 



(4) 



Elements of 

 Comparative 

 Anatoniy 



Manual of 

 the Anatomy 

 of Vertebrated 

 Animals. 



10 

 16 



26 



27 

 28 



29 

 30 

 31 

 32 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL,ADEJLPHIA. 



53 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTORIES OF PLANTS, No. X. 



By THOMAS MEEHAN. 



THE Origin of Coreless Apples. 



There are apple trees whicli have occasionally apetalous flowers 

 and bear fruit which is, as popularly stated, coreless. The pre- 

 cise morphology of this condition has never been explained. Re- 

 cently some specimens were presented to the Academy by Mr. 

 Anchutz of Arch Street, Philadelphia, from a tree growing on the 

 grounds of Captain F. J. Williams, in PleasantsCo., West Virginia. 

 Though bearing fruit abundantly every year it never had lieen 

 known to have a "blossom," that is to say, petals. The corrugated 

 appearance of the apex of the apple suggested the course of 

 growth which results in the "navel" varieties of orange, explained 

 in Proceedings of the Academy, July 25, 189o, p. 292, 

 and an examination showed that a similar explanation applies 

 to the apple as well as the orange. The ordinary apple is 

 simply an arrested branch in which the leaves, with the axis, 

 have been transformed into the succulent or carpellary structures 



FiK. 1. 



Fig 2. 



which go to make up the fruit. But in these coreless apples, the 

 growth- wave resulting in the production of fruit did not become so 

 fully arrested, but made a renewed though weaker rhythm. This 

 was sufficient to draw nutrition from the original fruiting wave, and 

 perhaps interfere with its proper pollination, thus permitting the 

 formation of an upper carpellary system, — weak, certainly, but 

 sufficiently well situated to secure pollen and produce a few 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



very small seeds in the upper section. The illustrations explain the 

 process l)y which this coreless condition is brought about. Fig. 1 

 gives an external view of the apex of the apple. In the ordinary 

 apple we havs the dry remains of five small sepals; in this we have 

 three series of five, alternating with each other in a perfectly normal 

 manner. The interior series of five are quite fleshy and, as they 

 are evidently the a[)ical portions of the five sectional protuberances 

 in the apple, we may safely conclude that it is this series which has 

 chiefly aided in the development of the fleshy portion of the fruit. 

 It should have been the matrix of the petals in the normal apple, 

 and we may infer that in this fruit, as we generally have it, with the 

 calycine and petaliferous verticils combined, it is the inner or petal 

 bearing series that gives the apple its chief succulency. In the nor- 

 mal apple, the cari)ellary structure commences at a, Fig. 2, but in 

 this case, by the imperfectly arrested growth of the axis, it has 

 been carried up to b, — and even then not wholly brought to rest, as it 

 has made another step, c resulting finally in a small system capable at 

 least of seed-l)earing, though having lost most of its power to give 

 succulence to its calycine series. We may say that a coreless apple 

 is, morphologically speaking, but a restless attempt on the part of the 

 tree, to develop several carpellary systems, instead of confining itself 

 to the perfection of one, as in ordinary cases. 



This phenomen is not unusual in plants. The rose, a near rela- 

 tive of the apple, is not infrequently seen with another small rose 

 growing from its centre, the explanation being of the same charac- 

 ter as here given for the apple. 



It may be tersely stated that navel oranges and coreless apples are 

 feeble attempts at proliferation. 



The Relations Between Insects and the Flowers of 



ImPATIENS Ft'LVA. 



Along a small stream on my grounds, masses of Lnpatlens fit ha 

 abound, growing in great luxuriance. The humming bird visits the 

 flowers as freely as various insects. I frctjuently amuse myself by 

 standing perfectly still in the midst of a )uass of flowers, and have 

 these little creatures i*est on my shoulder or even on my hand when 

 I kept it still above the flowers. While thus enjoying myself, I 

 have been led to note many items of interest worth recording. 



Variations in species are often referred to the visits of insects. 




1894.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



They bring pollen from other Howers, and intermediate forms neces- 

 sarily result. Quite early in the modern discussions of this subject' 

 I showed that variation must first occur, and that the insect visitor was 

 rather a conservative agent than a factor in variation, — bringing back 

 towards the original that which had departed. I have published 

 many papers showing that variation is at least as great in monotypic 

 species as where there are numerous closely related species or varie- 

 ties to cross with. Iwpatieiis fiilra is another illustration. It is not 

 necessary to recount the character of the variations. One may 

 fairly say that no one character can be named that does not show 

 variation in some individuals. Even the glaucous leaves are some- 

 times bright green, at others almost silvery. The flowers not only 

 vary in color and markings, but the several parts of the flowers are 

 changeable. The spur particularly is sometimes of remarkable 

 lengtli, at others well warranting the remark of Dr. Gray "spur 

 rarely wanting." Aside from the fact that there is no other species 

 near to get any aid to variation in that way, many of the 

 colonies on my grounds are from last years' seeds. The obser- 

 vations on tliis plant confirm records I have made during the past 

 quarter of a century that there is an innate power to vary co-existant 

 with the species itself, independent of any conditions of environment. 

 This may be granted without prejudice to the proposition tliat 

 changes can and do occur at times by tiie influence of environment, 

 for which there is abundant evidence. It seems proper to present 

 the strong facts on the former side, because of the modern tendency 

 to exalt the latter as the prime motor in evolution. 



The amount of nectar secreted at the base of the spur is consider- 

 able. By cutting off the apex and stripping down the tube as in 

 milking, a globule as large as a pin's head will form at the cut. A 

 large proportion of flowers, especially in the latter part of the season, 

 are cleistogeue. But even in these cleistogamous flowers spurs are 

 formed. An interesting fact Avas that the nectar formed as 

 freely in the spurs of the cleistogene flowers as in those which we 

 should call normal and fully "adapted" to insect visitors! 



Is there any necessary relation between the nectariferous 

 structures of flowers and the visits of insects? The cases in which 

 the relationship appears close are numerous, but equally numerous 



' On the Agency of Insects in Obstructing Evolution. Proc. Ac. Nat. Sciences. 

 1872, pp. 235-237. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



are tlie cases on tlie other side, aud this cleistogamoiis case is one. 

 But ill the normal flowers only a few insects could work to advantage. 

 The spur of the nectary is incurved, and only creatures with a long 

 and flexible tongue could reach the sweet deposits stored, mostly, at 

 the base of the tube. In my "Flowers aud Ferns of the United 

 States" (Series II, p. 44, 1880) Prof. W. W. Bailey is quoted on 

 the authority of a friend of his that "the sacs were all perforated by 

 bumble bees." Numerous species have their sacs perforated in 

 this way, and all have been charged, even by myself, to bumble 

 bees. Dr. J. H. Schueck of Mount Carmel, Illinois, suggested to 

 me that this is probably a mistake, and that species of Xylocopa 

 (carpenter-bees) and not Bombiis, are responsible for this act. 

 Watching these flowers I found the slits were made by a wasp, Vespa 

 maculata, that some species of Xylocopa, and also the honey bee, 

 took advantage of the work of the wasp; but the only species of 

 l)umble bee I noticed W'orking on the flowers, Bombiis Pennsylvani- 

 cns, entered the flower every time by the flower's mouth, and got 

 the nectar from the curved spurs as best it could. Properly speak- 

 ing, the openings made by the hornet are not slits, but rough openings, 

 chewed out. The slits proper appeared to have been made by the 

 small carpenter bees. It is evident that in view of the many insects 

 these flowers support, no advantage is received by the flowers in 

 return. 



The relation of Bomhus to fertilization was next examined. 

 The longitudinal streak of white pollen on the back of the visiting- 

 bee gave it a picturesque appearance. That he could carry pollen 

 from one flower to the other was very apparent. It seems impossible 

 for the visiting bee to reach the stigma, as these are protected by con- 

 uivent scales under the anthers, which form a close cap covering the 

 stigma. Usually the earlier petaliferous flowers are infertile. In 

 these plants, early in August, numerous flowers had perfected fruit, 

 though the great majority were infertile. In what manner did the 

 bee or the humming bird aid in the pollination? Examining a num- 

 ber of flowers after these creatures had retired I was satisfied that 

 they did not aid in any way. I have had evidence in other cases 

 that where sufficient moisture exists, pollen tubes can reach the 

 stigma without actual contact witli it. There is abundant niois^ture 

 around the stigma, and it is not improbable that the pollen tubes, 

 by the aid of this moisture, pass over the membranous border, in 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



many cases, to reacli the stigma and effect fertilization. The 

 positive fact gained by these observations is that neither humming 

 birds nor bumble bees in any way aid in pollenizing the petal-bear- 

 ing flowers. They are as absolutely self-fertile as the apetalous 

 cleistogene ones. 



An especially interesting ol)servation was the existence of many 

 plants bearing wholly cleistogene flowers among the normal petal- 

 bearing ones. These plants wei'e not as tall or vigorous as the petal- 

 bearers, and could be readily distinguished from a distance by a 

 yellowish-green tint, indicative of imperfect nutrition. It had been 

 before suggested to me by an incidental remark of Mr. Willis in the 

 Proceedings of the Cambridge (England) Philosophical Society, that 

 in some unexplained way there is a relation between imperfect nutri- 

 tion and cleistogamy, — a point which this observation confirms. 



The sum of these observations is, that in Lnpat let} s fidvav arhxtion 

 is innate and not dependent on environment; that bright color and 

 sweet secretions have no relation to the visits of insects; that the 

 petal-bearing flowers are self-fertile, and that cleistogamy is the 

 result of impaired nutrition rather than of any mere labor-saving 

 iuHueuce. 



Apetalism and seed Propulsion in Lamium purpureum. 



Lam ill 1)1 purpureinn, a well-known European species, is some- 

 what common as a weed on my grounds at Germantown, near 

 Philadelphia. It exists in two forms: one with small pale lilac 

 flowers, the other with flowers more rosy and larger. While 

 examining the flowers witii u lens to trace any difference 

 that might exist, I was surprised to have my face peppered 

 by the seeds which had been expelled from the calyx with consider- 

 able force. Examining plants with an abundance of seed vessels, 

 it was seen that most of the calices were empty though still compara- 

 tively erect. The seeds, or properly nutlets, could not easily have 

 fallen out, and doubtless propulsion is the usual method by which 

 they are distributed. 



Examining plants in the early part of July I found large numbers 

 of the upper flowers apetalous. The calyx was perfect, the stamens 

 were of the usual length, and the anthers profusely laden with })ol- 

 len ; the pistil seemed in every respect perfect, but not the 

 slightest trace of corolla existed. The stamens, normally borne on the 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



corolla, were now wholly iudependeat of* each other, and hypogyn- 

 ons. This is probably the first case of apetalisni recorded in 

 Labiatie. 



Fruiting of Robinia hispida. 



In descriptions of Robinia hinplda, no reference is made to 

 the legumes. In cultivation they are not known ever to be 

 fox'med. The writer has searched for them in his botanical collect- 

 ings in Tennessee without finding any, and it is a general belief that 

 they are rarely produced when the plant is growing either in a wild 

 or cultivated state. Mr. David F. Day of Buffalo, New York, 

 notices^ that the anthers are destitute of i)ollen in the flowers he ex- 

 amined from cultivated jilants in that region, a condition often 

 found, in most plants of Lafhynis (jramllfioi-us and some 

 other Leguminose plants. In an excursion around Linville, North 

 Carolina, in July 1893, Mr. C. F. Saunders of Philadelphia found a 

 number fruiting, some specimens of which have been deposited in the 

 Herbarium of the Academy, and in the Royal Herbarium at Kew. 



The Vitality of Seeds. 



Antirrhinum glcuidalo-^inn. Exact facts in regard to the power of 

 seeds short-lived under ordinaiy circumstances to retain vitality 

 when deeply imbedded in the earth, or under some other specific 

 ('i)nditions, are not numerous. Hence many controversies occur be- 

 tween the " practical man " who A;«o»w they will live an indefinite 

 time, and the man of " science," who as firmly believes they will not. 

 The writer of this has frequently been among the doubting ones, 

 simply because the facts adduced for long vital power, could bear 

 other interpretations. Ten years ago his friend, the late Dr. C. C. 

 Parry, gave him some California seeds. Antirrhinum glandalosum 

 was raised from them. The following year the plot was required for 

 buildings and covered with earth from the cellar several feet deep. 

 No j)lant of it has, to a certainty, been there since until this season, 

 when, the earth in one spot being turned up a few feet in depth, one 

 plant came up and flowered. 



Dimorphic Flowers in Labiatte. 



Dracocephtdiim nidaiis. — I have shown in various papers that a 

 tendency to dioecism is not uncommon in Ldhiattc. Another addition 



^Meehan's Monthly, TIT, p. 118. 




1894]. NATL'KAl. SCIKNCES OF PHIJ.ADEI.PHIA. 59 



to the list is Dracocephalnm nutans, a European plant which has 

 many individuals with all the anthers sterile. The plants which bear 

 the highly polliniferous anthers are much larger and more showy 

 that what may be called the female flowering plants, a fact I have 

 noted in other dimorphic species. 



Some European works have noted a mixture of species, or marked 

 varieties, of this plant in a wild state. The dimorphic character is 

 the probable explanation. 



Apetalism in Sisymbrium Thaliana. 



Apetalism is not common in Crucifene. I have noted tendency in 

 this direction in Cakile and in Raphanus. Early in the present sea- 

 son 1893 the plant being a common weed in my garden, I found 

 apetalous flowers very common. Numerous instances of flowers with 

 only one, two or three petals, were also observed. Later in the season 

 there was seldom found any variation from the normal condition. 

 No difference in strength, position, or any other condition could be 

 observed that would satisfactorilv account for the abortion. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SUBSPECIES OF TROUT FROM McCLOUD 



RIVER, CALIFORNIA. 



BY DAVID STARR JORDAN. 



Salmo gairdneri stonei, siibsp. nov. 



Allied to the form called Shno irideiis, but distinguished by its 

 small scales, the number of scales in a longitudinal series lieing 

 about 155, 82 before dorsal, where they are small and imbedded, 

 25 above lateral line. Teeth fewer and smaller than in var. irideus, 

 those on the vomer in a single zigzag series. Axillary scale of ven- 

 tral small. Pectoral 1+ in head. Eye large, 4^ in head. Maxil- 

 lary 2 1-10. Upper parts plain greenish. Spots small and sparse 

 on dorsal, adipose fin and caudal; a few spots only on posterior 

 part of the body. A faint red lateral band; cheeks and opercles 

 with red; no red between branches of lower jaw. Depth 4 in length. 

 Anal rays 11. Described from a specimen (No. 900 Mus. Stanford 

 Univ.) 14 inches in lengtli collected by Livingston Stone in 

 McC'loud River at Baird, California 



This form is well known to the Indians and to fishermen on the 

 Upper Sacramento According to Mr. Stone the Indian fishermen 

 say tliat it is abundant in the McCloud River about eight miles 

 above Baird. They are larger in size than ordinary irideus, one 

 having been taken weighing 12 pounds. It is known to the Indians 

 as No-shee or Kissuee. 



The subspecies is named for Livingston Stone, Director of the 

 11. S. Fish Hatchery at Baird. 




1894.] NATI Ix'AI, SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



February 6. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-seven ]iersons pi-esent. 



A paper entitled " Ol^servatious ou the Geology of adjacent parts 

 of Oklahoma and northwest Texas," by Edw. D. Cope, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



A Neu> Central American Papa. — Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited 

 specimens of a small land shell from Pol von, Nicaragua, and offered 

 the following description : 

 Pupa polvonensis n. sp. (PI. I, fig. 11). 



Shell cylindrical, somewhat tapering above, opaque gravish-white 

 with obli(]ue brown streaks. Whorls oh, somewhat convex; aperture 

 small, without intei-nal plica? or denticles; lip thin, simple, the 

 columellar margin dilated, partly concealing the round and rather 

 large umbilicus. Alt. 2, diam. 1-3 mm. 



This species resenddes I\ shnp/ex Gld. in the toothless aperture 

 and thin lips, but differs in coloration, the larger umbilicus, etc. 



February 13. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



February 20. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-nine persons present. 



The death of Edward 8. Whelen, a member, was announced. 



Papers under the folloAving titles were presented for publication : — 



" Tanais robustus, a new species of Auisopoda." By H. F. 

 Moore. 



" List of Port Jackson Chitons collected by Dr. Cox, with a re- 

 vision of Australian Acanthix-hitidse. " By Henrv A. Pilsbrv. 



February 27. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Thirty-nine persons present. 




02 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



A paper entitled " Re-exploration of Hartman'sCave in 1898," by 

 H. C. Mercer, was presented for pulilication. 



W. Graham Tyler and Ruth Clement, M. D., were elected mem- 

 bers. 



The following were ordered to be pinnted : — 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE GEOLOGY OF ADJACENT PARTS OF OKLA- 

 HOMA AND NORTH WEST TEXAS. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



Through the cooperation of certain members of the Academy I 

 was enal)led to make an expedition in the interest of vertebrate pale- 

 ontology during the summer of 1893. The gentlemen who contribu- 

 ted the means for this exploration were INIr. Charles Cramp, Gen. 

 Isaac J. Wistar, Dr. Samuel Dixon, JNIr. Thos. H. Savery and Mr. 

 William Sellers. I had the privilege of the society and assist- 

 ance of Prof. Amos P. Brown, in charge of the Department of Geology 

 and Mineralogy in the University of Pennsylvania. Theexpedition 

 left Bismark, Dakota, July 10th, and completed its labor at Galena 

 in southwestern Missouri on September 4th. 



The month of July and thirteen days of August were occupied in 

 explorations in the Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux Re- 

 servations in North and South Dakota. Near Fort Yates, N. D., 

 we examined the hills which are directly to the north of the fort 

 and extend northward. We obtained from them several fossils which 

 indicate their marine origin, and that they belong to the Fox Hills 

 epoch of Meek and Hayden. Tliese include sharks' teeth of the genera 

 Galeocerdo and Otodiis, and a fragment of a probable Chimerid fish. 

 The bluffs of the eastern escarpment of the Laramie formation ex- 

 tend across the plain at a rlistnnce of twelve miles west of Fort Yates, 

 and these were explored without result, except the discovery of a 

 few fragments of Dinosaurian bones. 



We made an expedition to the Laramie liluffs which border 

 Hump Creek in the northern part of South Dakota. This stream 

 rises in North Dakota, and after a course of perhaps thirty miles it 

 flows into the Ree (or Grand) River. Its valley is bounded by bail 

 land bluffs, but in only one portion of these did we find vertebrate 

 fossils. I owe my knowledge of this locality, as well as that which 

 I had previously visited in 1S92, to Miss Mary Collins, who has 

 spent much of her life as a missionary among the Sioux, and who has 

 the confidence of these people in a marked degree. One of Miss 

 Collins' assistants, a Sioux named Maza (Iron), had observed the 

 fossils, and served as my guide during botii the expeditions which I 




64 PROCEEDIKOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



have made to obtain tliem. As a trustworthy, amiable, and help- 

 ful man Maza proved himself to be an invaluable adjunct to the 

 party. We returned from Hump Creek on August 2d, and on the 

 way to the fort examined the escarpment of the Laramie at a point 

 further south than previously, and had greater success in obtaining 

 fossils. Altogether we obtained in the Laramie, bones of three 

 species of fishes and twelve species of reptiles; but no mammals or 

 birds rewarded our search. 



Our next points of investigation were the Upper Permian bad 

 lands of the Cimarron in Oklahoma, and such other outcrops of the 

 formation south of that river as should promise favorable results of 

 exploration. On our way thither we found ourselves, on August 10th, 

 at Sioux City, Iowa. Here we were courteously entertained by Mr. 

 John H. Charles, President of the Missouri River Transportation Com- 

 pany, He presented to the Academy portions of the vertebral 

 eolumes of two species of Plesiosauridio, from the Pierre formation 

 of the Upper Cretaceous, which were new to science, and which I 

 have described in the Proceedings of the American Philosophical 

 Society as Enibaphias eircnloxus and Elasmosauriis inlermedivs. On 

 an excursion along the bluffs bounding the valley of the Sioux river 

 we observed the eastern extension of the Niobrara Cretaceous lime- 

 stone and chalk, and the superimposed loess. 



In the absence of a good point for fitting out an expedition for the 

 explorations on the Cimarron River, we went to Fort Supply, a con- 

 siderable distance to the southward of it. We were there entertained 

 by the officers of the post, especially by Captain William Ahman 

 and by Lieut. Fox. The officer in conmiand, Col. Daingerfield 

 Parker, very kindly gave us the use of the post ambulance, and by 

 this means we were enabled to make a pretty complete examination 

 of the neighborhood during the days of our sojourn. Our first object 

 was to examine the red bluffs of Permian or Trias, which bound the 

 canyons N. and N. W. of the post, Avhich torm part of the drainage 

 system of the Cimarron. These bluffs we examined at various points 

 and for considerable distances, but without obtaining any traces of 

 fossil remains, excepting some fragments of wood. We found that 

 the formation which constitutes the higher levels at the heads of the 

 canyons tributaiy to the Cimarron, is an impure friable calcareous 

 limestone of evidently lower cretaceous age. We obtained from it 

 Exoyrjra texana and Gryplwa pitcherii with other species, which have 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEL,PHIA. 65 



been determiued by Prof. Brown as follows: — 7:!^.rof///ra tcmna, 

 Gnjphiea pitcherii, Ostrea siibovata, Ostrea fcrenidhnarf/o, Ostrea 

 sp., Citculkca tenuinalis, Neithea occidentaUs, Plieatula incongrna, 

 Trigonia sp., Trigonia emoryi, Turrifella mriathngranulata, Schhm- 

 bdchla peruviana. 



We found also the following vertebrata: Lam)ia No. 1, Lamna 

 No. 2, Lepidotid scale, Uranoplosiis ardatus, U. flectidetis, Coelo- 

 dtis hrownii, Plesiosanrus vertebrae, crocodile fragments, and frag- 

 ments of a tortoise. 



The three species of Pycnodont fishes were new to science, and 

 they have a Lower Cretaceous facies. Plesiosaurvs is represented 

 by dorsal vertebrae only, but these are not of the Upper Cretaceous 

 type. I have never found Lepidotid fish remains in the Upper Cre- 

 taceous of North America, while they are characteristically Lower 

 Cretaceous and Jurassic in Europe. The only occurrence of Lepi- 

 dotid fishes so far recognized in N. America, is based on some teeth 

 sent by Mr. Charles H. Sternberg in the Dakota sandstone of Kan- 

 sas, and on the new species, Macrepistius arenatus, from the Trinity 

 bed of Texas discovered by Prof. R. T. Hill. (See Journal of the 

 Academy Vol. IX, Part 4). The crocodilian remains are unde- 

 terminable. 



Below this formation, which is of a strong yellow color and about 

 twenty-four feet thick, is a stratum of marls, black above, whitish in 

 the middle, and buff below, of about equal thickness with the lime- 

 stone. The black color is due to carbon, which is some places forms 

 thin lavers of impure coal. This formation contained no fossils by 

 which its age could be determined, and thus stood in strong contrast 

 with the cretaceous above it, and agreed with the red beds of the 

 Permian below it. Between the black marl and the cretaceous there 

 intervened at some points a shallow bed of sand, usually coarse, and 

 reaching in places a thickness of six feet. Its color is yellow, varied 

 with horizontal red streaks. The age of the marine Cretaceous beds 

 corresponds, according to Prof Brown's determination, with the 

 Comanche Peak terrane of the Texas geologists. The tract first ob- 

 served lies about five miles northwest of Fort Supply, and is of 

 limited extent, being cut off to the north by the drainage of the 

 Cimarron River, and to the south by the drainage of the North Fork 

 of the Canadian. Its horizontal extent cannot exceed fifty s([uare 

 miles. We examined another and more limited area of the 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



same bed which contained the same invertebrate fossils, at a point 

 about twelve miles south of the fort. 



The Permian red beds are traversed conformably by layers of 

 gypsum at different horizons. The sand bed below the cretaceous 

 limestone is sometimes consolidated into a sandstone, which forms a 

 ledge near the summit of the bluffs. From fifty to seventy-five feet 

 below this and in the red beds, is a bed of saccharoidal limestone. 

 This limestone is luminous when struck or scratclied with a metallic 

 object, like a similar limestcme which occurs in some of the silver 

 mines in Utah in the Wasatch Mountains. 



At the locality already referred to, twelve miles south of Fort 

 Supply on a low ridge of the Cretaceous terrane, we observed a white 

 discolorati(jn, as though two or three cartloads of a chalky material 

 had been deposited there. Prof. Brown was so fortunate as to find 

 in it the fragments of a solitary superior molar tooth of Profo- 

 hippus jierditiis, which determined the age of the material as the 

 Loup Foi-k, or Uj^per Miocene. Careful search failed to reveal 

 another fossil, and it is evident that we have here the last remnants 

 of a formation which has been almost entirely removed by erosion. 



With the view of further determining the extent of the Comanche 

 and Loup Fork formations, we left Fort Supply and went by rail to 

 Miami, which is a village in Roberts County of the Panhandle of 

 Texas, south of the Canadian river. For several miles before reach- 

 ing Miami, the railroad runs between steep bluffs, which form, the 

 southern border of the flood plains of the Canadian river, and are 

 the escarpments of the outlying tracts and fingers of the Staked 

 Plains. They are about two hundred feet in elevation, and include 

 two hard strata, while the great mass is sandy clay, or sand in a few 

 localities. One of the indurated beds is at the summit of the bluffs, 

 forming the surface of the plain, and is about six feet in thickness. 

 The softer argillaceous bed below it varies from fifteen to fifty feet, 

 when the second impure sandstone is reached, which has a thickness 

 of about eight feet. The one hundred and fifty feet below this is 

 friable, so that the construction of the escarpment is such as to keep 

 it more or less perpendicular. Tlie general appearance of the blufis 

 is closely similar to that of the Blanco beds at the typical locality 

 one hundred and fifty miles south, at the jxiint where the Brazos 

 River issues from the Staked Plains in the Blanco Canyon. In order 

 to ascertain whether this formation is the Blanco or the Loup Fork, 




1894.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADEI^PHIA. 67 



whicli it resembles, we examined the bluffs for a day and a half 

 for fossils. They are rare in that region, but I obtained on the sec- 

 ond day, teeth of both series of a horse, Equus cwniiiiiisii Cope, 

 which demonstrated at once that the age is the Blanco. Mr. Brown 

 found camel bones which approach in dimensions those of the Blanco 

 species, rather than those of the Loup Fork ; but the species could 

 not be identified. 



On the succeeding day, we drove, thanks to Mr. R. T. Cole, ot 

 Mobeetie, to the town of Mobcetie in Wheeler County, eighteen 

 miles S. E. of Miami. The route takes the traveler across a part of 

 the Staked Plains, and a considerable distance before Mobeetie is 

 reached, ravines belonging to the drainage system of the tributaries 

 of the Red River are passed. We examined a number of these for 

 considerable distances without obtaining fossils. As we passed the 

 deserted Fort Elliott, near to Mobeetie, I examined some sandy beds 

 like those of the Upper Blanco beds, and obtained additional tooth 

 fragments of Equus oummhml and a second species of Equus proba- 

 bly E. eunjstylus, and fragments of teeth and other bones of unde- 

 terminable camels. We thus determined the extension of the Blanco 

 bed as far east as Mobeetie. 



The result of my observations on this, the northeastern border of 

 the Staked Plains, is to the effect that this plateau to the north of the 

 Red River like that part to the south of it, belongs to the Blanco de- 

 posit, giving the latter a north and south extent of two hundred and 

 fifty miles. It had been liitherto positively determined at the typical 

 locality only, that distance south of Miami, on the upper waters of 

 the Brazos. From this point to the Red River the formation appears 

 to be continuous ; and the portion north of the Red River now 

 described, not only has a close physical resemblance to the portion 

 south of it, but contains as now appears, fossils of the same age. 

 (See Report of the Geological Survey of Texas for 1892, lor reports 

 by Cummins and Cope on the Blanco terraue). 



On our return from Texas, Ave stopped at Tucker, Oklahoma, near 

 to the Cimarron River, and examined for a day the exposures and 

 bad lands ot the Upper Permian of that region. Although the ex- 

 posures are most favorable for the exhibition of any fossils whicli the 

 strata may contain, nothing of oi'ganic origin was found. Crystallized 

 gypsum is very abundant. 



On reaching Kansas on our return, we stopped at Wellington and 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



examined the Plistocene sands of that locality. At the west side of 

 the town is an ahandoued sand qnarry, and on the east side is a simi- 

 lar quarry, from which the town derives its supply of building sand. 

 We obtained from a saloon a number of fossils which were said to 

 have l)eeu found several years previously in the west-side quarry. 

 These consist of an almost entire mandibular arch of an adult Ele- 

 phas primigenius with both molars in place, with several bones of 

 probably the same animal ; together with the muzzle and parts of 

 both horns of a large bison, which differs considerably from B. 

 Idtifrons, and to which I have given the name of Bos ermnpianus. 

 It is figured and described in the Journal of the Academy, Vol. IX, 

 Part 4. I also obtained from Mr. Wheeler, owner of the east-side 

 quarry, an entire posterior molar of Elephas priniigeniiix of the coarse 

 plated variety, which was taken from his pit. 



Hearing of remains of the Mammoth in possession of some one 

 near to Hennessy in Central Oklahoma, we took rail for that i)lace. On 

 arriving, we found that the fragments wei'e in possession of a rancher 

 eight miles west of that town. We visited the ranch, and found that 

 the fragments were much broken, and included the four molar teeth 

 of an adult Elephas priviigenius of the coarse plated variety. The 

 rancher, Mr. Painter, had in his possession a number of teeth and 

 some bones of the limbs of a saber-tooth tiger, which he liad found 

 with tliose of the mammoth. Both its bones and those of the mam- 

 moth were stained red by the coloring iron of the Permian clay, 

 and were covered by a thin layer of it. The animals had been in 

 some way buried in this material during the Plistocene epoch. I 

 have desci'ibed the cat under tlie name of Dlnobasth serns. in the 

 Journal of the Academy, Vol. IX, Part 4, as it represented both a 

 species and genus new to science. 



On our return northward we stopped a few days at Galena, Mis- 

 souri, and visited the Marble cave eighteen miles east of that place, 

 under the guidance of the proprieter, Mr. Truman Powell. I wish 

 here to express the obligation under which Mr. Powell placed me 

 through liis hospitality and general assistance. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



LIST OF PORT JACKSON CHITONS COLLECTED BY DR. J. C. COX, WITH A 

 REVISION OF AUSTRALIAN ACANTHOCHITID^. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The followiiig pages contain a part of the results of the study of a 

 collection of the Chitons of Port Jackson, New South Wales, Australia, 

 recently made by Dr. J. C. Cox, the well-known Australiau con- 

 chologist. Dr. Cox, with great liberality, transmitted to the 

 Academy a large number of specimens both dry and preserved in 

 spirits, with the request that they be studied and reported on. I am 

 therefore enabled to make a contribution toward an exact knowledge 

 of the distribution of the Polyplacophora inhabiting the New South 

 Wales coast, as well as to elucidate several important points relating 

 to particular species and genera. 



With the exception of a few records by Mr. E. A. Smith, of Port 

 Jackson species collected by Coppinger,^ and by Professor Haddou 

 of those collected by the "Challenger,"'^ our knowledge of the Chi- 

 ton fauna of the New South Wales coast is limited to the lists pub- 

 lished by Mr. G. F. Angas^ many years ago. At that time, the 

 morphology of Polyplacophora was very imperfectly understood ; 

 and consequently these admirable lists, which have been so helpful 

 to subsequent conchologists in dealing with most families of mollusks, 

 are almost useless in the study of Chitons, so many errors do they 

 contain. 



Angas, however, found some forms in Port Jackson which subse- 

 quent observers have not yet found, and among them several, such 

 as Microplax Grayi, of exceptional interest to the general student 

 on account of their peculiar and ill-understood features. 



To direct the attention of local malacologists to these forms, if for no 

 other reason, it is thought expedient to quote Angas' list of species, 

 the modern equivalents of his names, so far as known to me, being 

 given in another column. 



'Zool.Coll. H. M. S. "Alert." 



•■^Challenger Reports, Vol. XVII. 



sproc. Zool. Soc. London, 1867, p. 221. and 1871, p. 97. 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



Angas' Port Jackson List. 



Lophyrus australis 



coucentricus 



glaucus 



muricatus 



jugosus 



smaragdinus 



Lepidopleurus proteus 



' ' longicymba 



" ustulatus 



' ' aiitiquus 



Tonicia Carpeuteri Ang. 



Leptochiton versicolor 



Onithochiton Incei 



' ' rugulosus 



Chiton piceus 



Chretopleura rugosa 



Lorica cimolia 

 " Angasi 



Plaxiphora petholata 



Acanthochites costatus 



' ' scutiger 



' ' carinatus 



Microplax Grayi 

 Cryptoplax striatiis 



Modern Equivalents. 



^Ischnochiton australis Sowb. 

 ^Chiton jugosus Glcl. 

 ?=Isc'lmochiton lentiginosus Sowb. 

 = Chiton muricatus A. Ad. 

 = " Coxi Pils. 

 = Ischnochiton smaragdinus Ang. 



I Ischuochiton divergens Reeve 



( and fruticosus Gld. 

 = Ischnochiton Haddoni Pils. 



^Callistochiton autiquus Rve. 

 ^Tonicia Carpenteri Ang. 

 ^Callochiton platessa Gld. 

 = Onithochiton 



= Liolophura Gaimardi Blv. 



= Lorica vol vox Rve. 



= Loricella Angasi H. Ad. 



^Plaxiphora petholata Sowb. 



=A. (Loboplax) costatus H. Ad. 



and Ang. 

 f,_ ( A. (Meturoplax) retrojectus 

 ■ ( Pils. or A. trranostriatus Pils. 

 ? = A. Coxi Pils.' 



= Choriplax Grayi H. Ad. & Ang. 



= Cryptoplax striatus Lara. 



Of the twenty- four species listed by Angas, I have not seen Lepi- 

 dopleurus vstulatus,* Tonicia Carpenteri, Cluetopleurarugosa or Micro- 

 plax Grayi. The type of T. Carpenteri was examined by Dr. 

 Carpenter who considered it a good species. It probably belongs 

 to the section Lucilina. Angas' Cluetopleura rugosa may possibly be 

 a young Plaxiphora, but it is with hesitation I hazard any conjecture 

 upon it. A note upon Microplax Grayi will be found in The Nauti- 

 lus for April, 1894, p. 139. The other species of Angas' list I 

 have identified with a consideralile degree of certainty, having 

 numerous specimens of all of them before me, as well as some addi- 

 tional forms lately discovered. The species collected by Dr. Cox 

 are as follows : — 



* Ischnochiion Kshilatiis Eve. occurs abundantly in South Australia, but 

 nothing I have seen from Port Jackson corresponds to this species. 




1894.] NATURAIv SCIENCES OF PHII.ADEIjPHI A. 71 



Family ISCHNOCHITONIDiE. 

 Genus CALLOCHITON Gray. 



Callochiton platessa (ioiild. 



Port Jackson. This is the Leptorhiton versicolor Ad. , of Angas' 

 list. It is a lovely shell of the most l)rilliaiit orange- red color. A 

 larger, dark-brown species allied to this, occurs on the Tasmaniau 

 coast, Callochiton ( Trachyradsia) iiwrnaf us Ten. -Woods. 



Genus ISCHNOCHITON Gray. 



The general arrangement of the species of this genus is fai- fioni 

 satisfactorv. Former classifications have been founded too exclusively 

 upon the girdle scales. The Australian species fall into five natural 

 groups, or sections, which may l)e defined as follows: — 



1. Iscluiovhlton s. str: type longlcymba Q. & G. 



Intermediate valves having 1-1 slits; lateral areas radially 

 sculptured, central areas finely granulated in quiucunx, or 

 longitudinally lirulate at the sides, with "V" sculpture 

 along the ridge. Girdle scales subequal, striated. 



2. ISteaoch'don : type jaloides A. & A. 



Animal much elongated: intermediate valves having several 

 slits on each side. 



3. Heterozoiia: type cariosa Cpr. 



Like IscJmochlton (sensu stricto), but girdle scales minute and 

 large, intermingled. 



4. Huplojilax now.: type smaragd in ks Aug. 



Intermediate valves having 1-1 slits; entire surface smooth 

 except for minute granulation; girdle scales convex, smooth. 



5. hvhiioradskc type aiidralis Sowb. 



Shell not unusually elongated; intermediate valves with 

 several side-slits, sculpture coarse; girdle scales very convex, 

 not striated. 



Ischnochitou Haddoni I'ilshry. 



Very abundant at Port Jackson and Port Hacking. This shouhl 

 be com|)areil with the type of Chiton crispus Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. 

 19, fig. 120, a species I have not seen. Also with C. pallidns 

 Reeve, I. c. pi. IH, fig. 92. 



It is certain that this is not Chiton longicymba Blainville, 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



nor is the New Zealand species described by Quoy ct Gaimard the 

 same as that of de Bkiinville. 



Ischnochiton fruticosus Gld. 



Abundant at Port Jackson, with the next species. This form is 

 distinguished from /. diveniena by its very much smaller girdle 

 scales. In fruticmm^ the individual scales measure in width -25 

 mm., or four to a millimeter. lu divergois they measure '40, or 

 otily two and a half to the millimeter. The difference is perfectly 

 ol)vious to the naked eye. 



This species and the ne.xt seem to have been included by Angas 

 under the name Lepldopleurus proteus. I believe CalUdovliiton 

 Copplngeri Smith to be the young of this species. 



Ischnochiton divergens Keeve. 



Port Jackson and Port Hacking (Cox). Reeve's Cli. proteus, 

 described from Newcastle, is a synonym. 



Ischnochiton (Ischnoradsia) australis Sowb. 



Port Jackson (Cox). 



Ischnochiton (Haploplax) smaragdinus Angas. 



Port Jackson (Cox). This species varies wonderfully in colora- 

 tion. The following patterns being repi-esented in the lot before me: 

 (r/) white or pale olive, the front and hind valves black; sometimes 

 the fourth, fifth and seventh valves marked boldly with black. (6) 

 Pale olive, flecked closely with olive, head and tail valves black. 

 (c) Sky-blue, closely reticulated with olive, and in places marked 

 with white, {d) Rich brown, speckled with olivaceous, and marked 

 with white on valves i, iv, viii. The details are thus endlessly 

 varied. Mr. E. A. Smith has kindly verified my determination by 

 a comparison with Angas type of smaragdiniis. 



I. smaragdinus picturatus var. iiov. 



Color-scheme consisting of a ivlde dui-aul dripe of lilac, dark blue, 

 ochre or some combination of these or other hues; tlie stripe bordered 

 with brownish, this border spreading forw.ird on value i, and spread- 

 ing over most of valves ii and vi. Remainder of the side- slopes light 

 and variegated. Girdle irregularly tessellated. 



This seems so well defined a pattern of coloring that I venture to 

 give it a name. Many Sjjecimeus are before me from Port Jackson. 




1894.] NATT'KAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



73 



Isohnochiton (Haploplax) lentiginosus Sowb. 



Shell rather thin, oval, moderately elevated, carinated, the side- 

 slopes straight. Surface smooth except for slight radial riblets ou 

 the lateral areas. Ground-color orange, orange-broivn, or even Avith 

 an olive suffusion, coarsely spotted throughout xoith bright blue; the 

 girdle olive-green, iinicolored or with dusky bars. 



The intermediate valves are slightly concave behind, the beaks 

 slightly projecting and interrupting the curve. Lateral areas slightly 

 raised, marked by 4 to 6 weak, low radial riblets, obsolete in some 

 specimens. Central areas having slight growth lines, but otherwise 

 unsculptured except for the usual microscopic granulation of the whole 

 surface. End valves showing traces of radial riblets toward the 

 periphery. Posterior valve having the rather blunt mucro at the 

 summit of the straight posterior slope, and in front of the middle. 



Interior roseate in the cavity, olivaceous liehind the valve-callus, 

 the sutural and insertion- plates blue-white. Sutural-lamime short, 

 projecting less than half the length of a valve, separated by a rather 

 narrow, hardly squared, sinus. Anterior valve having 11, inter- 

 mediate valves 1-1, posterior 13 slits; teeth sharp, normal. 



Girdle clothed with densely imbricating convex, polished scales, 

 which generally show a very minute striation under the compound 

 microscope. The scales measure: width -28, alt. about -22 mm. ; 

 the width of a scale is therefore contained about 3 2 times in a milli- 

 meter. 



Length 19, breadth 10 mm.; divergence about 115°. 



This species was described from Newcastle, N. S. Wales. It has 

 since been confused with /. cyaneopunctatus Krauss, a very similar 

 species from the Cape; and its Australian habitat has been doubted. 

 The rediscovery of the species in Australia (Port Hacking, N. S. 

 Wales) by Dr. Cox is therefore of unusual interest. 



In some specimens there is a narrow whitish stripe on the ridge of 

 valves iii, iv, v, vii and viii; and in some the blue spots become en- 

 larged and diluted on valve iv, forming a pale blue or whitish varie- 

 gation. 



This cannot be Chiton clypeus Blainv. (Diet. Sci. Nat., xxxvi, p. 

 540), which is also described as blue-spotted. 



Genus CALLISTOCHITON Cpr. 

 Callistochiton antiquus Eeeve. 



Port Jackson (Cox). Readily recognized by the very strong 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



sculpture of tlie valves, which is not paralleled by any other small 

 Chitou of Australian waters. 



Another species referred to this genus, Call ido chit on Coppijigeri'E. 

 A. Sniitli, lias been described from Port Jackson. I have not seen 

 the type, liut I believe it to be a young, roughly sculptured Isch- 

 nochlton fndicosus Gld. 



Family MOPALIID^. 



Genus PLAXIPHOEA Gray. 



Plaxiphora petliolata Sowb. 



Abundant and typical at Port Jackson and Port Hacking. At 

 the latter locality some specimens occurred having the exterior coloi'ed 

 like P. glaiiut Quoy (Man. Conch., XIV, pi. 68, fig. 72j, and 

 the inside pink and white, slightly clouded with blue. I have not 

 seen specimens of the true P. (jlatica, which is described as smooth 

 outside. The valves of P. petholata are always finely corrugated. 



Family ACANTHOCHITID^. 



But one genus of this family, A<nntJtochltes, has been found to 

 have representatives in Australian waters. This genus is nearly 

 world-wide in distriliution in tropical and temperate seas. The other 

 genera of the family are local in distribution, and contain very few 

 species. 



Genus ACANTHOCHITES Risso. 



The genus Acantltochlte.^ is one of the most difficult groups ot 

 Chitons, partly on account of the insufficiency of the published 

 descriptions of species, partly because the specific characters are not 

 easy to see in the creatures themselves, especially if the external 

 features only of the animal are studied. 



When the valves are removed from the girdle, a number of ex- 

 cellent distinguishing characters are seen, enabling us to reach more 

 satisfactory conclusions in most cases. 



The characters to be especially observed are : — 



1. General form, etc., features of girdle, its tufts, and presence or 

 absence of a marginal fringe of longer spicules. 



2. General features and coloring of valves; shape of iheir poderlor 

 (sutirral) margin^, which may be either concave, or convex and 

 strongly imbricating. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



3. Degree of differentiation of dorsal areas, ^vhich may be either 

 raised at the edges, or coutinuou? with the side areas, and eithe7' 

 transversehj or longitiidinalhj striated. Sculpture of side-areas, and 

 shape of the pustules, which may be either convex or concave. 



The preceding features may be deserved without disarticulating 

 the specimen; the following require its dissection, which is easy 

 enough after soaking it in warm water. 



4. Shape of tegmentum of tail valve, proportion of its breadth to 

 length, and position of mucro. 



5. Shape of j)osterior insertion-plate of tail valve, which may be 

 either regularly rounded or angular. Number of slits. 



6. Length of front slope of tegmentum of head valve as compared 

 with length from apex to edge of front teeth of same. 



The last mentioned character is a good index to the degree of im- 

 mersion of the valves in the girdle. Of course, any of these charac- 

 ters is subject to individual variation, but if a description is prepared 

 noticing them all, it is extremely likely to contain something which 

 will lead to the identification of a given specimen. In my account 

 of this genus in the Manual of Conchology, insufficient attention was 

 given to the features of the tail valve. 



The following species referable to the family Acanthochitidce have 

 been described from Australia: 



1825. — Chiton pohjchetus Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat., XXXVI, p. 



552, New Holland. 

 1825. — Chiton roseiis Blainville, t. c, p. 553, New Holland. 

 1825. — " Sueurii " " " King George Sound. 



1825. — " scaber " " " Seas of New Holland. 



1861. — Criiptoplax {Notoplax) speriosa H. Adams, Proc. Zool. Soc. 



Lond., p. 385, Tasmania (Cuming); Flinder's I. (Mil- 



ligan). 

 1864. — Hanleya variabilis H. Adams & G. F. Angas, P. Z. S. p. 



194. Yorke Peninsula (Angas). 

 1864. — Acanthochites carinatns H. Adams & G. F. Angas, P. Z. S. 



p. 194. Port Jackson (Angas). 

 1864. — Acanthochites costatii^ H. Adams & G. F. Angas, P. Z. S. 



p. 194. Port Jackson (Angas). 

 1865. — Acanthochites sciitiger A. Ad. ii- Eve., Angas, P. Z. S. p. 



188. Port Lincoln (Angas). 

 l^H2.—Acaidhoc]iifes tristis Rochebrune, Bull. Soc. Philomath. 



Paris, 1881-1.SS2, p. 194. New Holland (Dussumier). 

 1882. — AcanthochitcK tnrgidiis Rochebrune t. c, p. 194. New 



Holland (Peron & Lesueur). 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



1882. — Aeanfhoehites jucundas Rocliebrune, t. c, p. 194. New 



Holland (Belligny). 

 1884. — Chiton. (A'-antko;'hito)i) asbedoldes Cpr. MvS., E. A. Smith, 



Zool. "Alert" p. 88. Port Molle (Coppiuger). 

 1894. — Ae((nthocJiites {Metin-ojjlax) retrojectus Pilsbry, Nautilus, p. 



107. Port Jackson (Cox). 

 1894. — Aranthorhitet^ grrniosfriatus Pilsbry, Nautilus, p. 119. Port 



Jackson and Port Hackino- (Cox). 

 1894. — Aeanfhoehites Co.r/ Pilsbry, Nautilus, p. 119. Port Jackson 



(Cox). 

 1894. — Acanfhochifes Mattketosi Bednall & Pilsbry, Nautilus, p. 119, 



S. Australia (Matthews). 



Of these seventeen species, the four described by de Blainville 

 have not been recognized, and without an examination of the types 

 they cannot, in my opinion, be really known. The three species 

 described by Dr. Rochebrune will also prove difficult to identify, 

 although A. jiu'iindiis will probably be recognized by its peculiar 

 coloration. Most of these species of Blainville and Rochebrune were 

 founded upon specimens collected in the early part of the century 

 and no locality more exact than "New Holland" is stated. It must 

 be remembered that even this vague geographical information is not 

 to be considered conclusive. Some early voyagers have been known 

 to get the localities of their shells mixed. 



The remaining species are known to be Australian; but two of 

 them, H. earinatns and A. scidigtr, must be rejected ; the first be- 

 cause the name is preoccupied by Risso (Aranthochites rariiKitus 

 Risso, Hist. Nat. Eur. Merid., IV, p. 169. 1826), the other because 

 it is founded upon an incorrect identification. 



We have, therefore, eight recognizable species of AcaiithocJiites 

 from this region, if we include " Hanlei/<i " varwhilis which is un- 

 known to me autoptically. To this number, one more is herein 

 added. 



The Australian Acaiithochites fall into four subgenera or sections, 

 distinguished by the following characters : 

 II. Anterior valve having five strong radiating ribs, lobing the 

 periphery of the tegmentum; tail valve with several slits. 



Loboplax 

 aa. Anterior valve without radial ribs, the lower margin of the 

 tegmentum not obviously lobed 

 b. Valve viii having the mucro posterior, its insertion- plate 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



2-sIit, the posterior portiou strongly directed forward . 



Metiiroplux 

 bb. Posterior insertiou- plate of valve viii spreading backward 

 or vertical; nuicro not at the posterior extremity, 

 c. Valve viii with two slits, and a wide, shallow posterior 



sinus Aeanthochltes 



cc. Valve viii with several slits Notoplax 



Key to Australian species of Acanthochites. 



a. Anterior valve having five strong radiating ribs; insertion- 

 plate of tail valve with more than two slits .... eostaUis 

 an. Anterior valve not strongly ribbed. 



b. Posterior insertion- plate of tail valve directed forward, 

 two-slit. 

 c. Posterior margins of median valves convex (or straight 

 by erosion); side areas of valves coarsely granulose, 

 the dorsal areas smooth, not defined, not longitudi- 

 nally striated. Size small retro jecttii< 



bb. Posterior insertion-plate directed backward or vertical; 

 mucro not at the posterior extremity, 

 c. Valve viii with two slits, a wide, shallow sinus 

 between them. 

 d. Tegmentum of valve viii less than half as wide 

 as those of the intermediate valves; dorsal 

 areas smoother than sides, but not defined, 

 not longitudinally striated; posterior margins 

 of valves very convex, broadly reflexed 

 within; tufts dense, silvery, asbestus-like . . 



asbestoicles 

 del. Tegmentum of valve viii more than half as 

 wide as those of intermediate valves; dorsal 

 areas longitudinally striated ; posterior mar- 

 gins of valves i to vii not convex, generally 

 concave. 

 e. Posterior margin of the insertion-plate of 

 valve viii regularly convex, not bilobed ; 

 sides of valves with radially elongated 

 convex pustules; interior and sutural- 

 laminte roseate; tufts inconspicuous, hardly 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



longer than the harsh, stiff pile of the 

 girdle generally ........ Coxi 



ee. Posterior margin of insertion- plate of valve 



viii biaugular; sides of valves with flat or 



concave pustules; tufts noticeably longer 



than the pile of the girdle. 



/. Dorsal areas smooth, with delicate 



longitudinal striie . . grariostriatus 



ff. Dorsal areas strongly, deeply striated 



longitudinally BednaUl 



cc. Valve viii with more than two slits. 



d. Tegmentum of valve viii pear-shaped, longer 

 than wide; sides of valves pustulose, dorsal 

 area defined, smooth; tufts subobsolete, speciostis 

 dd. — Tegmentum of valve viii irregularly rounded ; 

 pleural tracts of valves longitudinally costate, 

 lateral areas granulated; dorsal areas deli- 

 cately striate longitudinally . . . Matthewsl 



Acanthocliites (Loboplax) costatus Adams and Angas. Man. of Concli., XV, p. 

 40, PI. 3, lig. 74. 



This species is distinguished by its strongly lobed head valve from 

 all other known Australian Acunthochites. It is allied to A. viola- 

 ceiis of New Zealand and A. tridaciia of New Caledonia. A. costa- 

 tus has been collected by Angas at Watson's Bay, during an un- 

 usually low tide ; also by Coppinger in Port Jackson. It has not 

 been found there by Dr. Cox. 



Acanthochites (Meturoplax) retrojectus^ PilsLry. PI. II, figs. 13, 13, 14, 15. 

 Nautilus, vii, p. 107, January, 1894 (Preliminary description). 



Shell small, narrow and elongated, convex, not carinated, Ijlack 

 or black-brown, with a whitish "V" or three white stripes on each 

 valve, sometimes broadly maculated with whitish at the sides, some- 

 times unicolored dark chestnut brown. Intermediate valves moder- 

 ately l)eaked, convex behind (except valve ii, the posterior margin of 

 which is straight), sculptured with comparatively coarse, rounded, scat- 

 tered pustules, which become smaller and more crowded toward the mid- 

 dle, and are lower and less distinct on the ridge; no areas being dis- 

 tinctly differentiated on the valves. End valves similarly sculptured. 



* In allusion to the backward thrown mucro. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Posterior valve small, having the mucro obtuse and posterior, the 

 ])Osterior slope short, vertical. 



Interior green, marked with black in the cavity. Head valve 

 having the insertion- plate about one- third as long as the front slope 

 of the tegmentum, with 5 small slits. Intermediate valves having 

 vtrv oblique plates witli 1-1 minute posterior slits; posterior valve 

 having the insertion plate short, and strongly directed forward, with 

 a small slit on each side. Sutural laminae rather lony- and narrow, 

 l)rojecting far forward. Sinus wide, deep and square. 



Girdle microscopically chat!}', with a series of hyaline spicules 

 at the edge and 18 small and compact silvery tufts. 



Length 92, width oJ mm. (dry specimen). 



" 12, "6 " (average specimen preserved in alcohol). 



Abundant in Port Jackson, near S3fdney (Dr. J. C. Cox!). 



This is a very distinct and easily recognized little species, of which 

 Dr. Cox has collected great numbers. It varies interminabh- in the 

 color and pattern of the valves, but not much in sculpture. The 

 subgenus which I have constituted for the reception of this one species 

 may be defined as follows : 



Meturoplux, n. subg. of Acauthochites. Subg. Char.: Valves i to 

 vii as in Acanthochites, but dorsal areas indistinctly differen- 

 tiated; valve viii Jiaving the mucro posterior, tJte iiisertioii-plate stro7i(/li/ 

 directed Jorward, with one slit on each side, and no sinus behind. 

 Girdle as in Acanthochites. Type A. retrojectus. 



This group holds the same relation to Acanthochites that Pallochi- 

 ton holds to Chcetopleura. It is a variation distinctly in the direction 

 of the Cryptojdacidcv, recalling Choneplax, and clearly showing the 

 Acanthochitoid genesis of that family. 



Acanthochites {s. str.) asbestoides Cpr. PI. Ill, figs. 10, 17, 18, 19, 20. 

 -Man. of Conch. XV. p. 17. 



The prominent features of this species are (1), that the dorsal ar- 

 eas are hardly differentiated, being only somewhat smoother than the 

 den.sely granulated latero-pleural areas, and totally lack longitudinal 

 striation. (2) The posterior margins of the median valves are pro- 

 duced far backward in the middle, each strongly imbricating over 

 the following valve, and inside the beak-margin is very broadly re- 

 flexed (fig. 16). (3) The tail valve is disproportionately small 

 (compare fig. 20 with fig. 17) and its sutural-laminae are very long. 




80 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



These features, in combination with the compact, asbest us-like sutural 

 tufts, readily distinguish the species from other known forms. 



A. asbestoidex was collected by C'oppinger at Port Molle, Queens- 

 land. It is also in the British Museum from Flinder's Island, Bass 

 Strait. This last locality should be confirmed. 



Acanthochites Coxi'> Pilsbry. PI. Ill, figs. 21, 22, 23, 24, 2.5,20; PI. IV, fig. 34. 

 Nautilus VII, p. 119, Frb. 1S94 ( prelimiuiiry (lescripti(iu). 



Shell elongated, the visible portion of the valves occupying 

 less than one-third of the entire breadth of the animal (when 

 preserved in alcohol). Valves grayish, somewhat mottled with 

 olive and fleshy, the dorsal areas dark red or marked with oli- 

 vaceous. Girdle olivaceous. 



Exposed portions of the intermediate valves subtriaugular, slightly 

 elevated, hardly carinated, nearly separated at the sutures by spicu. 

 lose bridges of the girdle. Dorsal areas wedge-shaped, convex, dis- 

 tinctly differentiated from the pleura but not elevated at the sides, 

 sculptured with fine longitudinal stri;ie. Latero-pleural areas having 

 the diagonal rib indicated by a low rounded convexity, and sculptured 

 throughout with convex pustules elongated in a radial direction 

 (fig. 21). Anterior valve having five low I'iblets indicated, each 

 produced at the lower edge in a slight lobe. Posterior valve (PI. 

 Ill, figs. 22-25) having the tegmentum subcircular, a trifle wider 

 than long, the mucro rather elevated and acute, behind the middle. 



Interior rose colored. Anterior valve with the insertion-plate 

 more than half as long as the front slope of tegmentum, pink, with 

 five deep slits; intermediate valves having 1-1 slits, and a ridge 

 running upward from the slits, as though the anterior edge of the 

 posterior tooth projected over the posterior edge of the anterior tooth. 

 Posterior valve having the insertion-plate subvertical behind, and 

 slightly waved up between the two slits; its posterior contour convex. 

 Sutural laminae large, rounded; sinus angular. 



Girdle fleshy, densely clothed with short hyaline spinelets, the 

 tufts being represented by inconspicuous clumps of somewhat longer 

 spines. 



Gills three- fourths the length of the foot. 



Length 23, breadth 13 mm. (alcoholic specimen). 



"Named in honor of Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, N. S. W. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Port HackiuLi-, N. S. Wales (Dr. J. C. Cox). 



This species differs from A. f/ntnostrlatiis ia the iucouspiciious 

 tufts, obvious though low diagonal ribs, convex pustules, rounded 

 contour of the insertion- pi ate of the tail valve, etc. 



Acanthochites granostriatus rilslny. Tl. II. tigs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 0: PI. IV, 

 tin-. 37. 

 Nautilus VII. p. 119. Fol). 1894. 



Shell rather elongated. Exposed portion of valves occupying 

 about one-third to one-half the total width (in dried specimens). 

 \'alves moderately elevated and obtusely keeled, the ridge indis- 

 tinctly clouded with whitish, orange and blackish; sides mottled in 

 indistinct and varying pattern with olive and white. Girdle oliva- 

 ceons, tufts silvery stained with blue or dirty olive. 



Intermediate valves having the exposed portions broadly wedge- 

 shaped, truncated in front, decidedly imbricating. Dorsal area of each 

 valve wedge-shaped, rather wide, convex, distinctly differentiated 

 from the pleural areas, but not raised at the sides, sculptured with 

 numerous rather weak longitudinal striai and crossed by slight 

 growth- lines. Latere- pleural areas having no trace of a diagonal 

 rib, sculptured with elongated, concave or fiat pustules, arranged 

 radially, and connected by opaque lines giving the appearance of 

 radial stride. Anterior valve with very slight indications of three or 

 five low rounded radial ribs. Posterior valve having the tegmen- 

 tum subcircular, the niucro rather acute and elevated, situated at the 

 posterior third (PI. II, figs. 2-5). 



Interior of valves pink, becoming salmon colored posteriorly, 

 stained with dark in the middle of the cavity, where there is a dis- 

 tinctly porous longitudinal band. Sinus moderately deep, squared 

 and minutely crenulated. Posterior valve triangular, having an up- 

 ward wave in the straight posterior margin, the postero-lateral mar- 

 gins concave. 



Girdle clothed with short, greenish spicules and having eighteen 

 conspicuous bluish or silvery tufts. 



Length 9, breadth oi mm. (dried specimen). 



Length 10, l)readth 7 mm. (alcoholic specimen). 



Port Jackson and Port Hacking, N. S. Wales (Dr. J. C. Cox !). 



Acanthochites Bednalli Pilsbiy. PL II, figs. 7.8, 9, 10, 11. 



Shell oblong, moderately elevated, carinated, the .side-slopes 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



straight. Color of valves light creamy-gray, sparsely maculated 

 with dingy browu and white, usually sliowing some indistinct olive 

 stains on some valves. Girdle gray, witli conspicuous silky, silvery 

 tufts. 



The posterior (sutural ) margins of the valves are nearly straight, 

 the small beaks slightly projecting along the middle line. The teg- 

 mentum of each intermediate valve is divided into a distinct but not 

 sharply defined triangular dorsal area, which is longitudinally 

 marked by ir)-20 (heply cut ><ti-kz, and twosubequilateral triangular 

 side areas, wliic^h bear concave or flat t()})ped ovate pustules, rather 

 irregularly arranged. The anterior valve is similarly sculptured; 

 and has several indistinct radial elevations; the front slope of its teg- 

 mentum is nearly double the length of the anterior teeth. The pos- 

 terior valve has a rounded-hexagonal tegmentum which is somewhat 

 broader than long, with the raucro between the posterior third and 

 fourth of its length; behind the miicro sloping outward. 



Interior tinged with rose in the middle and somewhat porous there, 

 the teeth and sutural plates bluish or greenish; valve-callus strong; 

 reflexed border of tegmentum very narrow. Anterior valve with 

 five, intermediate valves 1-1 slits; posterior valve (PI. II, figs. 

 (S-10) having a distinctly biangular, bilobed contour behind; the pos- 

 terior median portion straight, iatero- posterior sides concave behind 

 the two narrow slits. Sinus wide and angular in all the valves. 



Girdle wide, densely clothed with short, gray- brown si)icules, and 

 having nine large tufts of long, silvery sjjicules on each side. 



Length about 13, breadth 6'' mm. (dried specimen). 



Habitat : Western Shore of St. Vincent Gulf, S. Australia (W. 

 T. Bednallj. 



This species is closely allied to A. (jranostriatus, but the valves 

 are more solid; the dorsal areas are in iicji more deephj striated long i- 

 tiidiiKiUij ; that of valve viii is largely broken into granules. The 

 sutural lamime in A. hednalli are greenish; the pustules of the side- 

 areas are somewhat larger and rather less regularly arranged in 

 longitudinal series. The profile of valve viii is not notably different 

 in the two species, but the mucro of A. gr(iuostri((tiis is rather more 

 posterior. A. Bednafl! differs from A. Co.ri in having much more 

 conspicuous and silky sutural tufts, in the color of the interior and 

 sutural lamina', in the flat pustules, and in lacking the curved dia- 




1894.] NATrRAL SCIENCES OP PHIIjADEI.PHIA. So 



goual ril) which in Cox! exteutls from the apex of eacli median valve 

 to its hiteral slit;?. 



Acanthochites (Notoplax) speciosus H. Ad. PI. IV, tigs. 31, .12. 33. 

 Mnu. o1' ('(inch., X\', p. 3:.', I'l. 1, li.us. ^J3-26 (druAvii from type). 



This peculiar species may instantly be known by the wide, Crypto- 

 plax-like girdle, densely clothed with minute spines which are thick 

 and blunt for an Ac'iiifliorJilfex, and having inconspicuous sutural 

 tufts, not longer than the surrounding pile, but composed of finer, 

 whiter spicules. The tegmentum of each intermediate valve is tri- 

 angular, the girdle tissue forming spiculo.«e bridges at the sutures. 

 The dorsal areas are sharply defined, convex, and arcuately striated 

 b}'' growth- lines, l)ut show no longitudinal striie. The latero-pleu- 

 ral areas have round concave-topped pustules. Other notable fea- 

 tures are found in the tail- valve, which is very high, with vertical 

 posterior insertion-plate, and pear-shaped tegmentum. The sutural 

 laminte and insertion-plates are radially striated, and the posterior 

 valve has several slits, besides the usual pair. The tegmentum of 

 the head- valve is small, extending hardly half the length of the front 

 slope of the valve. The figure.* are drawn from a specimen from 

 St. Vincent Gulf, furnished by Mr. W. T. Bednall. It has been 

 known hitherto from Tasmania (Cuming coll.) and Flinder's Island 

 (Jos. Milligan). 



Acanthochites (Notoplax?) Matthews! Eednall and Pil.shiy. PL IV, figs. 

 •27, 28. 2i), 30. 

 Nautihus ^'II, p, 120, Feb. 1S94. 



Shell elongated, narrow, moderately elevated and carinated, the 

 side-slopes straight. Valves of a delicate flesh tint, each having 

 several concentric, forward- converging, zigzag bands of olive-brown. 

 Girdle hoary, with white sutural pores. 



Valves i to vii bave the posterior (sutural) margins concave, the 

 small beaks slightly projecting. Dorsal areas narrow, very convex, 

 but not raised at the edges, delicately striated longitudinally. Side 

 areas divided into pleural and lateral tracts by a small curved dia- 

 gonal riblet; the pleural tracts sculptured with loiigitndinal rihlets 

 (about fifteen on each side), flattened and faintly crenulated; as 

 they cross the diagonal rib these riblets bend abruptly upward, 

 passing obliquely across the lateral areas, upon which they are more 

 distinctly crenulated or broken into pustules, especially near the beak 

 of each valve. Anterior valve having five low radial elevations, 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



pinnately corrugated, the lower margin of the tegmentum feebly 

 angulated by them. Posterior valve having a large, irregularly 

 rounded tegmentum, ribbed in front, granulated behind; mucro at 

 the posterior fourth of tegmoitnm, decurved and hooked, the slope be- 

 hind it concave. 



Interior white, with bluish macuhe at sinus and bases of the sutural 

 laminiw Anterior valve with five, intermediate valves 1-1 slits; 

 posterior valve having the posterior insertion- plate flaring backward 

 and outward, with one strong slit on each side and several (two or 

 three) between them. Sinus rather wide. 



Girdle narrow, densely clothed witli minute spicules, and having 

 rather large bunches of vei'y short white spicules at the sutures. 



Length 26, breadth 8 mm. (dried specimen). 



Habitat: South Australia (E. H. Matthews !) 



The sculpture of this species is extremely peculiar, and totally dif- 

 ferent from that of any previously known member of the family 

 Acaiithochitidce. The coloring is also markedly distinct. The type 

 was sent me by Mr. W. T. Bednall of Adelaide, South Australia, 

 who suggested the specific name employed above. Although techni- 

 cally a Notoplax in its multifissate tail valve, this species is very un- 

 like A. speciosus, the type of that group. 



Acantliochites (Notoplax I) variabilis. 



IhDilcva variabilis H. Ad. :iiul C. F. Aug., V. Z. S., 1864, p. 191; Augas, P. 

 Z. S., 1865, p. 188. 



Shell oblong, whitish, variegated with blackish-brown. Valves 

 broad, carinated; dorsal areas longitudinally densely costate, the 

 ribs closely pustulose; lateral areas but slightly elevated, trans- 

 versely undulately costate, the costie closely pustulose. Girdle hav- 

 ing short white corneous S})icules at the margin, and bunches of pale 

 spicules. Length 16, breadth 10 nmi. 



Habitat: Yorke Peninsula, under stones at low water (Angas). 



The above translation of the original description is given for com- 

 parison with that of A. Matthenm. This species is otherwise un- 

 known to me, and may prove to belong to some other group. It is 

 evidently distinct from A. Matthewsi, the proportions of breadth to 

 length in the two being so difterent as to preclude the suspicion of 

 identity which I at first entertained. 




189*.] NATiriAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHIA. 85 



Family CRYPTOPLACID^. 

 Genus CRYPTOPLAX Blainville. 

 Cryptoplax striatus Lainaick. 



Abundant in Port Jackson. 



The large series of adniirahly preserved specimens submitted by 

 Dr. Cox shows conclusively the uncertainty and variability of the 

 pore bunches. In some individuals they are all developed ; in others 

 most of them are certainly absent, the minutest scrutiny of the sur- 

 face showing no trace of pores or their spicules. 



Family CHITONID^. 



Genus CHITON Linne. 



Chiton pelliserpentis Q. & G. 



Port Jackson (Cox). I am quite unable to detect any difference 

 between the excellent, fresh specimens sent by Dr. Cox and the New 

 Zealand specimens from Auckland. This is the only species of the 

 order known to me to be common to New Zealand and Australia. 



Chiton muricatus A. Ad 



The central areas have a ribless triangle in the middle ; the pleura 

 have about 10 narrow riblets on each side in front of the diagonal 

 rib, but not extending forward to the anterior margin of the valve. 

 The most prominent feature of this species is the peculiar sharp- 

 pointed girdle scales, a character unique in this genus. This species 

 was described from Sydney. Dr. Cox obtained specimens in Port 

 Jackson showing great variation in color. Angas found it at Port 

 Lincoln. 



Chiton jugosus (lid. 



A beautiful species abundant in Port Jackson. 



Chiton Coxi ii. sp. 



Shell oblong, strongly elevated, carinated, the side slopes straight, 

 Pleura loncjiindiixdhj grooved in front of the diagonal, the surface 

 elsewhere smooth. Color delicate bluish, mottled or blotched with 

 olive- brown, yellow and white. Girdle a delicate blue-green, with 

 narrow white bars. 



Intermediate valves moderately beaked; lateral areas smooth and 

 loell raised; central areas having a large smooth triangle in the 




86 PROC!EEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



middle; the pie urn aeulptured with deep narroiv (j mores, separated by 

 intervals about double their width, and extending but a short distanee 

 forimrd from the diagonal line, except that the outer three or four 

 i^rooves extend to the anterior edge of the tegmentum. About U or 

 10 grooves may he counted on each side of a valve. Anterior valve 

 much larger than tlie posterior, unsculptured. Posterior valve hav- 

 ing the muero acute, about central, distinctly projecting; the posterior 

 slope concave. 



Interior bluish or creamy white; sinus notched at the sides, deli- 

 cately denticulate. Anterior valve having 8, intermediate valves 

 1-1, posterior valve 12 slits; teeth pectinated outside and on the 

 edge. 



Girdle rather wide, densely clothed with imbricating-, convex, 

 shining scales which are densely and most minutely striated, have 

 the usual low rounded outlines, and measure in breadth -30 mm. 



Length 18, breadth l-i mm.; divergence 90° to 110°. 

 Port Jackson (Dr. J. C. Cox). 



This is probably the Lophi/rii.< jngoxiis of Angas, P. Z. S. , 1867, 

 p. 222. 



It is allied to ( '. jngosnx Gld. but differs totally in color-pattern. 

 The girdle scales are smaller than in a s})ecimen of jiigosiis of the 

 same size; the grooves in front of the diagonal line are narrower, with 

 wider interspaces, etc. 



Genus LOfilCELLA Pilsbry. 



This name was proposed originally as a section of Lorica. At that 

 time I had seen no specimens of L. Angasi, its type. Several alco- 

 holic examples are now before me, showing features not before 

 noticed, which are undoubtedly of generic importance. The group 

 may be characterized as follows: 



Gen. char.: Valves entirely exposed, the front one very large, 

 having numerous unequal, conspicuously pectinated teeth; median 

 valves squared, having a narrow l)i-lobed sinus, slits 1-1; posterior 

 valve small, with posterior inucro, the insertion- plate reduced to a 

 low ridge, nearly smooth and interrupted by a slight sinus behind. 

 Girdle widest in front, having a small slit behind ; densely covered 

 with minute elongated granules and hearing long, branching bristles 

 arranged in radial series. 



In short, Loricella has the general features of Lorica, pln.s girdle 




180-4.] NATlTRAIi SCIENCES OF I'HIEADELPHIA. 87 



hairs, and with the girdle and tail- valve shaped like those of Plad- 

 phorelbi. 



The hairs of the uirdle branch, somewhat as in Mopalia ciliata. 

 There is no trace of eyes or eye-pits upon the valves; but the genus 

 has doubtless descended from a form having eyes, and its position in 

 the general system will not differ from that assigned in my mono- 

 graph of the Polyplacophora. 



Loricella Angasi Ad. 



Port Jackson, several specimens collected by Dr. Cox. It occurs 

 also in South Australia. The largest specimen I have seen is one sent 

 by Mr. Bednall of Adelaide. 



The presence of hairs upon a girdle with a dense covering of scales 

 is an extremely rare if not unparalleled combination of chax-acters. 



Genus LIOLOPHURA Pilsbry. 



Liolophura Gaimardi Blaiuv. 



1825. — Chiton Gaimardi Blv., Diet. 8c. Nat. , xxxvi, p. 546. 

 1846. — ('hito)i incaniis Gld., Proc. Bo&t. Soc. N. H., ii, p. 145. 

 1867. — Cliitot, i)lcen.-< Angas, P. Z. S., 1867, p. 223. NotofGmel. 

 1874. — (.'hitoii piceiisTa.p. Can., Viag. 'Magenta,' p. 77. 

 1893. — Liolophura Gniviardi Pils., ISlau. of Conch., xiv, p. 240. 



Collected abundantly at Port Jackson and Port Hacking by Dr. 

 Cox. This species has been confused by wi-iters wnth Acxmiho- 

 pleiira. The latter genus is found in Australia only along the coast 

 of tropical Queensland. 



Three species of the genus LiolojyJtiira are now known from 

 Australia : L. Gaimardi, inhabiting the coast of New South Wales, 

 witli a variety in Queensland; L. georrjiana Q. and G. , described 

 from King George Sound, S. W. Australia, and L. curtisiana 

 Smith, from Port Curtis, Queensland. I have not seen the last- 

 named species. 



L. Gaimardi queenslandica ii. var. 



Valves similar in form and coloring to those of L. Gaimardi; girdle 

 covered with l)lack spines, whi(;h are somewhat more slender than in 

 Gaimardi. Length 50, breadth 31 mm. (dry specimen). 



Larger than any of the typical form seen, and distinguished by 

 the uniform black color of the girdle. Type is No. 64,853 of the 




<S8 PKOCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Academy collection, taken by Dr. Cox at Bun(lal)nrg, Queen.'<- 

 laud. 



Genus ONITHOCHITON Gray. 



Two species or at least forms of this genus are represented in the 

 collections made by Dr. Cox at Port Jackson and Port Hacking. 

 The relations of 0. Lyellil Sowb., (jiierclnus Gld. and nir/iilosiis 

 Aug. are peculiarly perplexing, and more material than is before me 

 is required for a satisfactory revision of the group. 



0. rugulosus Angas. 



Port Jackson and I'ort Hacking, (Cox!). In this form tlie lateral 

 areas are transversely rngose, and the pleura have fine, close irregu- 

 lar riblets, converging toward the ridge. 



0. quercinus (Jould. 



Port Jackson (Cox!). 



I take this to be the form having the central areas nearly smooth, 

 with som(> riblets toward the outer edges of the pleura. Probably 

 intergrades with the preceding. 



Explanation of Plates. 



Plate U. 



Figs. 1 to 6. AcanlhdcJtUc^ yraiiodriatitc Pilsbry. 



Fig. 1. Dorsal view of valve vii. 



Fig, 2. Dorsal view of valve viii, sutural lamina' broken. 



Fig. 3. Ventral view of valve viii, sutural lamina) broken. 



Fig. 4. Posterior view of valve viii. 



Fig. 5. Lateral view (profile) of valve viii. 



Fig. H. Sculpture of tlie middle of side area of an intermediate 



valve, X 22. 

 Figs. 7 to 11. Acanthochites Bednalll Pilsbry. 

 Fk;. 7. Dorsal view of valve vii. 

 Fig. 8. Dorsal view of valve viii. 

 Fig. 9. Posterior view of valve viii. 

 Fig. 10. Lateral view of valve viii. 

 Fig. 11. Sculpture of side area, x 22. 

 Figs. 12 to 15. Acanthorhlten retrojactHx Pilsbry. 

 Fig. 12. Dorsal view of an intermediate valve. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Fig. 13. Dorsal view of valve viii. ' 



Fig. 14. Lateral view of valve viii. 

 Fig. 15, Ventral view of valve viii. 



Plate III. 



Figs. 10 to 20. Acanthochites asbestoidcs Carpenter. 



Fig. 16. Veutral view of valve vi. 



Fig. 1 7. Dorsal view (outline) of valve vi. 



Fig, 18. Lateral view of valve viii. 



Fig. 19. Ventral view of valve viii. 



Fig. 20. Dorsal view of valve viii. 



Figs. 21 to 26. Acanthochites Coxi Pilsbry. 



Fig. 21. Sculpture from middle of a side- area, x 22. 



Fig. 22. Posterior view of valve viii. 



Fig. 23. Lateral view of valve viii. 



Fig. 24. Dorsal view of valve viii. 



Fig. 25. Veutral view of valve viii. 



Fig. 26. Dorsal view of valve vii. 



Plate IV, 



Figs. 27 to 30. Acanthochites Mattheicsi Bednall and Pilsbry. 



Fig. 27. Dorsal view of valve vii. 



Fig. 28. Dorsal view of valve viii. 



Fig. 29. Lateral view of valve viii. 



Fig. 30. Dorsal view of entire animal, natural size. 



Figs. 31 to 33. Acanthochites speciosas H. Adams. 



Fig, 31, Dorsal view of valve viii. 



Fig, 32, Lateral view of valve viii. 



Fig. 33. Posterior view of valve viii. 



Fig. 34, Acanthochites Coxi Pilsbry : dorsal view of an alcoholic 



specimen, natural size. 

 Fig, 36, Acanthochites retrojectus Pilsbry: dorsal view of an 



alcoholic specimen, natural size. 

 Fig. 37. Acanthochites granostriatus Pilsbry: dorsal view of an 



alcoholic specimen, natural size. 




90 PKOCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



TANAIS ROBUSTUS, A NEW SPECIES OF ANISOPODA. 

 BY H. F. MOORE. 



In August, 1892, the collectors of the Marine Biological Labora- 

 tory of the University of Pennsylvania, at Sea Isle City, N. J., 

 brouglit in a large logger-head turtle, ThalassocJielys caretta. 



Examination showed its carapace to be burdened with a miscel- 

 laneous collection of invertebrata, including Polyzoa, Anellida, Cir- 

 ripedea, Pycuogouidia, Caprellidae and a single species of Anisopoda. 



The latter, which has apparently heretofore escaped notice, was 

 found in numbers inhabitincj minute tubes in the crevices between 

 the scales of the turtle's carapace. When unmolested, these little 

 crustaceans could be seen crawling carefully about among their fel- 

 low voyagers or lying at the mouths of their domiciles with only the 

 head and chelae projecting ; when disturbed they promptly retreated 

 out of sight. I am unaware of any other species of the family 

 Tanaidaj occupying a similar position. 



Though differing in some slight particulars from the genus Taiiais 

 as re-constituted by Sars, the sum of its characters evidently places it 

 in that genus and I propose for it the name Tanais robmtus. 



It is quite robust for the family, being less than 3^ times as long as 

 broad. The carapace, which is the broadest portion of the body, is 

 terminated anteriorly by a minute rostrum, whilst its posterior border 

 is somewhat concave in the middle line. In front of the origin of 

 the great gnathopods the lateral outline is strongly concave, but op- 

 posite the bases of these limbs it becomes swollen. When viewed 

 dorsal ly, the carapace appears, in general figure, top-shaped. Two 

 grooves, one on each side, indicate upon the dorsal surface the inner 

 boundary of the branchial chamber. Behind the carapace the 

 breadth of the body becomes gradually less with each successive seg- 

 ment. The fourth free segment of the perieon is the longest, slightly 

 exceeding the third, which is in turn longer than the fifth. 



The pleon is composed of six distinct segments, of which the fourth 

 and fifth are much shorter than the others and the sixth is terminated, 

 posteriorly, by a blunt median projection. The body is constricted 

 at the joints and the segmentation is distinctly marked. The dorsal 

 surface is furnished, laterally, with a few setie, which on the first and 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



second segments of the pleon form a short row on each side, but 

 never form a transverse band crossing the segment. 



The eyes and eye- lobes are large, the latter being let into deep re- 

 cesses in the anterior lateral portion of the carapace. 



The antennulte consist of three joints, of which the basal one is 

 somewhat longer than the other twocoml)ined. A small knob (rudi- 

 mentary flagellum) terminates each. In the male the antennula? 

 usually about equal in length the carapace with the first free segment, 

 but are sometimes considerably longer. In the female they are about 

 equal to the carapace alone. 



The antennse lie close beneath the antennulse, by which they are 

 slightly exceeded in length in both male and female. They are five- 

 jointed, the fourth joint being the longest, slightly exceeding the sec- 

 ond; the fifth, third and first following in the order named, the last 

 mentioned being very short. Each antenna is terminated by a 

 densely setiferous rudimentary flagellum considerably longer than 

 that of the antennules and sometimes imperfectly articulated, 



The mandibles are of the usual form, curved inwards at the tip 

 where each bears a pair of horny teeth, shaped like the limbs of the 

 letter U. Proximad of the middle, a stout trausverse column passes 

 mediad bearing at its end an oval molar plate traversed by a series 

 of parallel ridges with deep grooves between. Under a high power 

 each ridge appears to be broken up by shallow indentations into a 

 series of rounded teeth. 



The first maxillae consist of a stout forwardly directed column 

 and a posteriorly directed palpus, bearing at its end a brush of 

 seven or eight long sette. The anterior ramus is stout and 

 curved towards the median line, bearing at its tip a group 

 of about eight stout, curved spines, each with two series of fine, 

 apically directed, denticuli. A brush of stifi" setse lies near the base, 

 and laterad of, the spines. A smaller group of spines lie on one 

 face near the tip; these are not denticulate and lack the brown color 

 of those in the apical group. 



The maxillipeds are adherent basally by means of short, stout 

 hooks. The basal joints are prolonged on their anterior or oral 

 aspects into plate-like processes, which are coupled together in the 

 median line. Each basal joint bears a flattened palpus, consisting of four 

 joints, the terminal three being furnished with long setaj. The distal 

 joint is strongly flexed on the penultimate. A somcAvhat falciform 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



branchial epipod is attached to the niaxilliped at its base, by means 

 of a slender stalk. 



The first guathopods are strongly chelate in both sexes, but 

 especially so in the males. The "thumb" of tlie propodite is ter- 

 minated by a horny tooth and external to and just within this is a 

 sharp-edged tubercle; the tooth of the dactylopodite bites between 

 these two. Figs. 6 and 6a, Plate V, show the guathopods of male 

 and female side by side and give a better idea of their appearance 

 than can be gained from a description . 



The limbs of the first free segment of the perseon are long 

 and slender, their terminal claws being but slightly curved. The 

 two succeeding paii's are stouter, with the dactylopodite and 

 claw shorter than iu the first pair. The last three pairs are still 

 stouter, the dactylopodite bears a strongly hooked claw with a comb- 

 like series of minute curved teeth on each side and the distal end of 

 the projjodite bears a row of stout setaj. All the limbs except those 

 of the first free segment have the distal end of the carpopodite crowned 

 with a few stout spines, some bifid, others serrulate. 



Only the anterior three segments of the pleou bear limbs (pleo- 

 pods). Each of these consists of a flat basal piece (protopodite) to 

 which are attached two one-jointed blades furnished, on their outer 

 edges, with long pinnate seta?, the exopodite bearing about 35, the 

 endopodite about 15. Both protopodite and endopodite bear a single 

 stout seta on their inner edge. 



The last segment bears a pair of four-jointed setose limbs (uro- 

 pods), the segments of which are cylindrical and increase in length 

 from l)ase to tip. 



The marsupia of the female are thin walled pouches attached 

 to the ventral wall of the sixth thoracic segment (fourth free seg- 

 ment). They increi\se in size with the development of the eggs and 

 in some specimens extend over segments five and seven, to which, 

 however, they are not attached. 



The largest specimens collected measure from rostrum to tip of 

 pleon 4-7 mm. and in width 1*4 mm. The ground color in alcoholic 

 specimens is pale yellow. Upon the carapace this is heavily mottled 

 with brownish pigment, excepting over about thirty elliptical and 

 sub-elliptical areoltc symmetrically arranged towards the middle line. 

 The dorsal surfaces of the chelie are similarly marked. The portion of 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



the body and the limbs behind the carapace are much paler, being 

 usually concealed in the tubular dwelling. 



Nine species of Tauaidoe have been previously recorded from the 

 western shores of the North Atlantic, namely : 



Tanais vittatus Rathke. 



T. hirsKtiis Beddard. 



Leptochelia Snvignyl Kroyer=(L. ah/icohi Harger 9 ). 



L. dt(bia = (L. ahjicola Harger $). 



L. rapax Harger. 



L. (/) filum (Stimpson) Harger. 



Heterotanais limicola (Harger) Sars. 



Leptognathia coeca (Harger) Sars. 



Neotanais americana Beddai'd. 



Tanais vittatus, L. Savignyi {f) and L. (Juhia (J) have been taken 

 at Great Egg Harbor Bay, New Jersey. 



T. /aVs(/^;/s was dredged by the "Challenger" in 50 to 150 

 fathoms off Prince Edward Island. 



Neotanais americana was dredged by the "Challenger" in 1,250 

 fathoms about 200 miles southeast of New York, 



H. limicola, L. coeca and all the species of Leptochelia enumerated 

 have been taken on the New England coast. 



The genus Tanais may be distinguished from all others by the pos- 

 session of one- branched uropods, pleopods on the first three segments 

 only of the pleon and incubatory sacs at bases of the fifth pair of 

 limbs. Sars in his re- definition of the genus says, "uropoda l)revia, 

 simphcia, ramosingulo bi-vel tri-articulato." His figure of T. cavolinii 

 possesses four joints, though Milne Edward's figure has but three. 

 Tanais (Zeuxo) Westtvoodiana has six joints, T. hirsidus has twelve 

 and T. novce zealandae has five, one moi'e than the species just 

 descrilied. 



T. robustus differs from T. vittatus, the only other New Jersey 

 member of the genus, by its greater robustness and tapering body, 

 by the possession of one more joint in the pleon and in the absence 

 of setiferous bands crossing the first two segments of the pleon. 



In the foregoing reference is made to the following papers : 



Beddard, F. E. "Challenger" Reports. Isoj^oda— 1886. 



Harger, O. Report on the ^Marine Isopoda of New England and 

 Adjacent Waters. Report of U. S. Fish Commission, 1878. 



Norman, A. M. and Stebbing, T. R, R. On the Crustacea Iso- 

 poda of the " Lightning," "Porcupine" and "Valorous" Expe- 

 ditions. Transactions Zoological Society of London, 1886. 




94 PROECEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Sars, G. O. Revision dcr Gruppeu ; Isopoda Chelifera. Arch. f. 

 Mathematik, Vol. VII. 



Stebbinu:, T. R. R. A History of Crustacea. New York, 

 1893. 



Description of Plate V. 



Fig. 1. Dorsal view of male. 



Fig. 2. Antenna of male. 



Fig. 3. Mandible. 3a a portion of molar surface in section. 



Fig. 4. First maxilla with its backwardly directed palp ter- 

 minated by long settc. 4a, apical portion of maxilla, showing the 

 apical and sub- apical groups of spines and the auxiliary brush of 

 stiff bristles. 



Fig. 5. Maxilliped. 



Fig. 6. First gnathopod of male ; 6a of female. The basal 

 joint is not shown. 



Fig. 7. Limb of first free thoracic segment. 



Fig. 8. Last thoracic limb. 



Fig. 9. Pleopod. 



Fig. 10. Uropod. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHII^ADELPHIA. 95 



March 6. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled " Some volcanic products from the Hawaiian Is- 

 lands, " by E. Goldsmith, was presented for publication. 



March 13. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



March 20. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Forty- three persons present. 



March 27. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a new Armadillo with remarks 

 on the Genus Muletia," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for 

 publication. 



Theodore N. Ely and Dr. Gustavo Niederlein were elected mem- 

 bers. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




96 



PROCEEniNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



RE-EXPLORATION OF HARTMAN'S CAVE, NEAR STROUDSBURG, PENN- 

 SYLVANIA, IN 1893. 



BY H. C. MERCER. 



Rumor had reported the existence of a cave in Monroe County, 

 Pennsylvania, which Mr. T. Dunkin Paret after some searching 

 discovered in 1880 on the top of a hill overhanging Cherry Creek, 



J^iG. 1. Entrance to Hartman's Cave. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



about four miles from Stroudsburg. Eight hundred feet above and 

 five miles west of the Delaware River, with its nearest drinking water, 

 the creek, one-fourth of a mile down the steep, and eight or nine miles 

 north of the glacial moraine, the damp, chilly hole seemed hardly a 

 good lair for beasts, much less a shelter for men. 



Original discoveries of Air. Paret. — When Mr. Paret had 

 removed the debris which choked its broad arch. Fig. 1, 

 so that a man could scarcely wriggle like a snake 150 feet 

 in, he encountered traces of men and animals in a top layer of 

 limestone roof-splinters and down-slidden outer talus thinning 

 inward into less stony cave earth. All this relic- bearing material 

 lay upon a bed of clay of unprobed depth which appeared to over- 

 spread the whole cave bottom, and it was always above this clay and 

 never in it, that Mr. Paret's workmen found (often in his 

 absence, for business prevented his continued supervision) the speci- 

 mens collected : the thin chipped blade of argillite (fifty feet in to 

 the extreme right; depth not stated, the four bone awls; the pots- 

 herd, (outside the entrance on a ledge) ; the bone fish-hook, needle and 

 harpoon;^ along with remains of the lynx, gray fox, wolf, skunk, 



' I have just recieved the following interesting letter from Mr. Paret : 



Stroudsburg, Pa., March 25, 1894. 



Deae Sir : 



Yours of 10th at hand and I am obliged for your letter and for your 

 slip as to the cave discussion at the Academy of Nat. Sciences. Have you had 

 the clay examined microscopically ? If not, it might be advisable. Something 

 might be learned as to its origin. 



The potsherd was not dug out. It Avas not found by my men, but a visitor 

 who picked it upy>'cw/ f/ie surface, from that shelf of rock, away up on the right, 

 (as you face the cave ) where I and a man worked a little while you were 

 there. It was on f side of the cave entirely, on a rock shelf, at foot of clifl'. away 

 above the cave level. The shell has a curious history : One of my men brought 

 it to me His two boys got into a quarrel at home, he interfered and found they 

 were disputing for the shell. He asked where it came from and they said, from the 

 cave; so he took it away from them. He told me it was full of clay and that he 

 washed it out. He is a man in whom I have implicit trust. The argillite l)ladc 

 and peccaiy jaws were found about same time and place — about 50 feet inside of 

 cave, on extreme right. The fish-hook was found on same side, but not so far in. 

 I do not think there is anything to prove how old the horse tooth is. The one 

 striking fact to me is that no stone tool has been found at any depth or dug out. 

 The potsherd was on bare rock. The arrowhead I found was in earth on a flat 

 rock — only a few inches covered and a few inches of earth below. But the bone 

 tools were all dug from below the surface. Boys talk is that many stone tools used 

 to be picked up on the rock shelves inside of the cave. Why were none found in 

 the soil as those of bone were ? 



I feel sure that if stone was in free use when the bone was, some would have 

 been found with the bone. ... I am firm in my belief that your trench 

 is of small value till a >/nu/i longer one is extended at right angles outwards. I 

 also believe that if all the debris in front Of cave was removed much more might 

 be found. Your trench simply proved that no human or animal remains were 

 contained in a cross cut of that length and narrow width. There is room outside 

 it for many hearths at various levels. . . . 



Youi-s truly, 



T. DuNKiN Paket. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



weasel, raccoon, mole, dusky rat, little brown bat, woodchuck, por- 

 cupine, beaver, muskrat, gray squirrel, ground squirrel, meadow 

 mouse, white field mouse, wood rat, gray rabbit, deer, elk, wild 

 turkey, turtle, box turtle, snapper, snake, three species of Helix, 

 a Unio and a I^Iargaratina, besides (to make the discovery par- 

 ticularly noteworthy) the following remarkable objects: 



(1) A perforated marine shelP bead made from the Gomistornahis, 

 alleged by a farmer to have been brought from the cave trench by his lit- 

 tle sons, which, on the authority of Mr. Geo. W. Tryon in 1880, and 

 Mr. Pilsbry in 1894, belongs to the Pacific Coast mollusca of Central 

 America and which therefore suggests the whole question of aborigi- 

 nal trade and the query whether the cave occupants had really ob- 

 tained a shell from somewhere nearly two thousand miles away, 



(2) Several teeth of the reindeer (Rangifer caribou) which seem 

 to infer a colder climate. 



(3) A tooth of Bison amerieanus asks us to account for 

 the presence of this browsing animal of the Mississippi Plains in 

 the easternmost mountain steeps of the great forest. 



(4) The jaws and teeth of the extinct peccary, Dycotijles Pennsyl- 

 vanicits, which with (5) the teeth of the extinct giant chinchilla, Cas- 

 toroides ohioensis, suggest antiquity, though we cannot yet prove 

 that these animals became extinct in Pennsylvania more than 300 

 years ago. 



(6) Two teeth of a horse, discovered at a point and depth not noted, 

 which Dr. Leidy (who visited the cave in 1880 and identified all the 

 bones then found by Mr. Paret, see Ann. Report of Geolog. Surv. 

 of Pennsylvania, 1887, p. 1-20) says belong to an indigenous species. 

 If this be so it may well set us to wondering what aborigines on the 

 hilly upper Delaware were doing with horses before the time of Co- 

 lumbus. 



' Mr. Paret has not understood that my cross trench in the outer talus (see 

 Fifj. 2) contained both human and animal remains, in fact revealed a layer of 

 Indian occupancy, 1 foot thick and 1 1-2 to 2 feet below the surface. This layer 

 must once have continued into the cave and tlie only question is was it the only 

 layer in the cave or were there other layers under it which I did not find outside? 

 Why, asks Mr. Paret, were no stone tools found underground (if the knife is an 

 exception) by Mr. Paret's men ? There is nothing un-Indian about the bone tools 

 found. 



I should answer : because the men had missed seeing the few small, dull look- 

 ing objects that would have told the tale. The single barbed bone arrow or spear 

 is common to Eskimo and Indian, and there is, I believe, nothing un-Indian 

 about any of the bone tools discovered. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



Neither Dr. Leidy nor INIr. Paret has asserted that the human 

 remains of this second known cave of importance in the Delaware 

 Valley were those of Indians or any other people definitely named, 

 or that the bones, often rodent- gnawed, and the scanty human refuse 

 belong to one and the same period of occupancy, so it seemed worth 

 while tor the sake of the buried human story of the Delaware Valley 

 to go back to the cave in October 1893, and study what might be 

 left of the original layei'S to determine if possible : 



(a) Whether the animal and human remains were contemporane- 

 ous. 



(b) Whether the human remains were Indian remains. 



(c) Whether the human remains were of geologically ancient or 

 modern date. 



Present Condition of the Cave. — INIr. Paret showed me the 

 cave on the hill top October 17, 1893. Nearly all the 

 upper stratification had been shovelled out until one could 

 walk in under the broad, chilly arch for 117 feet, 6 inches. 

 But as the unfathomed clay remained underfoot from end to end 

 and fringes of the original debris lay along the right and left 

 walls just inside the entrance, and as the talus heap outside had only 

 been trenched through the middle to clear an ingress and so showed 



Fig. 2. 



its original stratification when its edges were pared down (Fig. 2, c. 

 a. e.), there seemed some chance of recovering the lost threads of 

 the story. 



The Contemporaneity of Human and Animal Remains. — 

 Two men shovelling five days in the inner clay and slicing the 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



outer talus, our exaraiuation of the remaining small fringes of 

 debris brought us to the first question : 



Were the animal and human remains contemporaneous? 



If they were not, no matter what the bison, horse, chinchilla and 

 reindeer meant in the cave, their bones told us little of the date of 

 Man's visit, and their discovery formed no interesting link between 

 archaeology and paleontology. Our trench 40 feet in from the en- 

 trance, 3 leet, 8 inches wide, and 22 feet, 3 inches long, dug for possible 

 hidden layers and bottom, at right angles across the cave floor showed 

 a continuous homogeneous bed of exquisitely fine clay, deposited 

 in thin laminjc rarely sprinkled with sand pockets and underlaid 

 with a film of sand resting on an uneven limestone floor at 5 feet, 

 11 inches; 10 feet, 7 inches; 11 feet, 6 inches and 14 feet, 1 inch. 



As no sign of life, no interrupting layer from top to bottom 

 wasapparent, it seemed that it could be relieved of all connection with 

 Mr. Paret's discoveries. The animal remains and human refuse 

 must have all belonged to the debris and cave earth above it, and it 

 only remained to be asked before we were done with this all import- 

 ant test of stratification whether Mr. Paret's relic- bearing upper de- 

 posit of roof slivers, rotten leaves, human relics, bones, charcoal and 

 ashes, gathered dust and inroUed talus consisted of one layer homo- 

 geneous throughout, telling of one uninterrupted time of occupation, 

 or of several layers diff'ering in character, separated by interplaced 

 bands proving time intervals between the visits of Man and beast. 

 The trouble was that nearly all this cave floor material had been dug 

 away and all we had to guide us was what was left of it, its outer end 

 so to speak, in the talus. But when we cut into this talus just out- 

 side the entrance we did what we would have done had we explored 

 the cave at the start, and when we found a thin layer of human occu- 

 pancy in it 1 foot thick and 1 2 to 2 feet below its surface we inferred 

 that this human layer was but a continuation of the lost human layer 

 inside the cave. Yet as the conditions for soil formation outside 

 probably differed from those inside the cave, and as we only penetra- 

 ted 10 to 12 feet into the outer talus without reaching the clay or its 

 efpiivalent that should have been below it, there was a chance that 

 our talus wtis not a fair end slice of the cave, and that there might 

 have been several human layers inside against the single one in the 

 talus outside. 



Too much critical ground had been lost and we had to be satisfied 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



with the rediscovery of one human layer at least, which we had a 

 right to call either the single layer or the uppermost of a series of 

 layers originally found in the cave. To its date or to a later time 

 evidently belonged the bones which Professor Cope, who has assisted 

 me in this work, has kindly identified of the turkey, chipmunk, cat 

 squirrel, marmot, smaller vole, larger vole, short tailed shrew, 

 raccoon, skunk, gathered by Mr. Paret and myself in the aforesaid 

 side fringes of debris just inside the entrance. 



But as to the original bones found in 1880, careful side cutting into 

 the cave floor in the first place might have shown which of the dis- 

 covered fragments were i-eally part of the cave feast too well bedded 

 between the fire sites to have been scratched out of older under layers 

 and into newer and later layers and which were not, but these clues 

 have been lost. 



In some caves every bone found has seemed fairly and clearly 

 part of the INIidden heap. But it was against all the evidence pro- 

 duced at Hartman's that the place had been a lurking hole for 

 small animals. Some had come into the crevices to die, leaving 

 their skulls. Others, whose bones rodents had gnawed, had been 

 brought in by carnivora in the first place or carried by pilfering ro- 

 dents from the human feast. 



There is, therefore, only a probability that ]\Ian killed and ate the 

 bison, castoroides and peccary in Hartman's Cave, since, minus the 

 lost layers, we may say that there is no proof that these animals did 

 not come there to die, or that they were not carried in whole or 

 piecemeal by large carnivora when their bones, though lying on the 

 cave floor long before Man's advent, would have come in close contact 

 with his subsequently built hearths. 



The jiature of the human remains. No proof that they ivere not of 

 Indian make. — As to the second question : Were the remains 

 Indian remains ? The Trenton gravel Man if we grant his existence 

 must be ruled out of Hartman's Cave, for there was not one of his 

 described rude, leaf-shaped, turtle backs found among the chipped 

 blades and arrowheads that in themselves denied his existence there. 

 Whether the human remains found by Mr. Paret came from the same 

 layer in which I found mine or from other layers now untraceable, there 

 is no need of searching for a new and as yet uudescribed cave occupant 

 to account for the bone awls common at the Trenton Delaware 

 Valley site found by me in the Indian layers at the Forge Cave in 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Virginia, at the Iluninielstowu Cave in Dauphin County, Pennsyl- 

 vania and at the Nickajack and Lookout Caves in Tennessee. The 

 hamnierstone, aruillite cache blade, pottery and chert arrowheads 

 are duplicated at the Lenape villages at Point Pleasant, Ridges 

 Island and Gallows Run on the Delaware River, while the single 

 liarbed bone spear from a shell heap explored by me in September 

 1891 on York River, Maine, can he again referred to the Red Man. 



We may safely say that the notion of a precedent people vanished 

 at Hartman's Cave, and that the only Man that I found there or 

 that I have reason to suppose that Mr. Paret found there as the 

 possible contemporary of the reindeer, and bison, extinct peccary and 

 giant chinchilla was the chert- using, pottery-making Indian of the 

 Delaware Valley, already the possessor of the bow and arrow and the 

 quarry denoting cache blade. 



Antiquit]] of the human remains. — When we ask the third ques- 

 tion : Were the human remains of geological antiquity or of 

 modern date and, granting the association ot the extinct mammal bones, 

 use their presence to prove great age. We must remember that the ab- 

 sence of historical mention which largely gives the word "extinct" 

 its meaning, and which in Europe reaches back 2000 years at once, 

 has here as yet but a proved retrospect of hardly more than three 

 centuries. The fact that John Smith or the Jesuits did not ob- 

 serve the peccary in the northern United States does not disprove its 

 scanty or straggling existence in their time, and we cannot be cer- 

 tain that, as Jefferson supposed, a few superannuated mammoths 

 were not hiding in forest corners as late as the 18th century. Only 

 the correlation of the fauna of many more caves with human remains 

 can give us a just notion of the time-span of many of these animals 

 and make definite the still vague border line between archaeology 

 and paleontology. 



The problem of the clay. — It is for geology to explain the ex- 

 quisitely fine laminated clay containing no sign of life that so deeply 

 covers this cave floor. 



It must have been quiet water holding mud in solution that laid it 

 there, film upon film, nor could tlie process have been arrested by 

 dry intervals or the visits of men and beasts, since no dissimilar, dry 

 laid or life betokening stratum interrupts it. How this beautiful clay, 

 widely unlike the coarse, red deposits in the Lookout and Nickajack 

 Caves in Tennessee or the Durham Cave, 10 miles below Eastou on 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



the Delaware, got into its place with nowhere save the gritty hill 

 crest just above to come from, is the question. Could it have been 

 the residuum of the rock decomposition which originally formed 

 the cave cavity or in other words the rubbish of cave ero- 

 sion choking up three- fourths of the eroded hole?^ We would 

 know how and why successive pools of yellow mud-bearing water 

 could cover the floor once upon a time and not now, where 

 the water came from, since any down running rivulet would 

 have rolled in the hillside grit with it, and why the flooding pro- 

 cess was not interrupted by intervals, when animals came in and de- 

 bris was formed ? 



A possible answer to these questions seems to be suggested in the 

 important and interesting fact that Hartman's Cave lies eight miles 

 north of the glacial moraine, diflering therein by position from all 

 other caves in the United States lying to the southward of the now 

 well-known silhouette of pebbles that profiles the southern limit of ice 

 advance. It is therefore one of those glaciated caves distinct and 

 individual by position, full, perhaps, of new secrets for us, which, it 

 the glacial theory be true, must have been sealed up with superin- 

 cumbent ice like a tightly corked bottle throughout most of the frozen 

 period. 



If this clay is due to the banking up of ice and the draining of 

 muddy glacial waters into the caves' mouth then we can account for 

 it, but if ice damming and ice water had nothing to do with it, and 

 on the other hand it is due to a subsequent submergence of the hill 

 top below water level in the Champlain period, then similar clay beds 

 ought to be found in caves, like Durham, south of the moraine and 

 their absence remains to be accounted for. 



Moreover if this clay is glacial then other caves north of the 

 moraine should show the same ice-sealed barrier, beyond which no 

 preserved relic of post glacial age penetrates. 



The Indian and his relics, the fossil castoroides and peccary, 

 were left behind as we got down into the clay with nothing before us 

 it seemed but the beginning of the cavern itself. Was the cave then 

 no older than the melting ice ? If so, why and how had the 



3 If this were the case the composition of the clay should, I am told, show its 

 limestone parentage. But no carbonates have been found in it to suggest that 

 it was a near relative of limestone, while on tlie other hand it showed the same 

 reactions as clay dredged up from the bottom of the Delaware Eiver, near 

 Chester. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



disintegrating streamlets which made it at the same time nearly filled 

 it with the residuum of their own erosion ? If it was older than the 

 ice sheet, why w^ere no tertiary fossils associated with the quater- 

 nary ? None of the bones that protrude from the bleak gorges 

 in the bad lauds of Texas to frighten Indians have ever been 

 found in subterranean rock hollows. We found none of these in 

 or below this clay in Hartman's Cave. Had they never lain 

 there, or, coming in like their quaternary succesi^ors, had they been 

 washed out, or, us Prof. Cope suggests, had the whole tertiary fossil- 

 bearing end of the cave been eroded away iu the lapse of time ? How- 

 ever this may be, if we are right, the clay in Hartman's Cave marks 

 with the precision of a pointing clock hand, the hour of the glacier in 

 the world's history. What is under the clay comes before what is 

 over it, after the ice. 



If the ice made the clay we must go back, not to any event since 

 the clay (post glacial) or any event during the clay-making (glacial) 

 but to some event before ( preglacial ) to find a force, whether of cave 

 washing or cave erosion, that could have swept this cave clean of the 

 fossil remains of creatures that lived before the quaternary. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



VOLCANIC PEODUCTS FROM THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS. 

 BY E. GOLDSMITH. 



Kauaiite. — As the Hawaiian Islands are known to be of volcanic 

 origin, the appearance in a crater of a substance resembling chalk 

 may occasion surprise. 



Professors Benj. Sharp and W. Libbey, Jr. who visited a number 

 of the Pacific Islands during the past year, secured, on the Island of 

 Kauai, a specimen which, in external appearance, very much re- 

 sembles chalk. Although definite infi)rmation as to its relation to 

 adjacent solfataras and cracks is desirable it has not been obtained, 

 nor is it known whether the material is rare or abundant. 



The specimen weighed but a few ounces. To the eye it appears 

 to be amorphous and made up of an extremely fine powder which 

 soils the fingers when touched. Despite its softness the particles ad- 

 here firmly, its hardness being about 0.5. It can be easily cut 

 with a knife into any shape, precisely like chalk. It is perfectly 

 dull to the reflected ray of light ; the color is nearly white or, to be 

 exact, of a faint cream tint. One side of the specimen is covered 

 with a thin coating of brown oxide of iron. The streak is white and 

 its lines on a black-board cannot be distinguished from lines made 

 with white chalk. Only formless granules are revealed under the 

 microscope and, strange to say, increasing power serves but to show 

 more of the granules in the field without any increase in size. In 

 all of the granules the diameters seem to be about the same. 



If the material be iml^edded in balsam and interposed between the 

 crossed Nicol prisms, light is transmitted. The ray of light trans- 

 mitted under these conditions is pale blue and no other color of 

 polarization is produced. By this means the particles can be ob- 

 served to the best advantage, as, when projected on a dark back- 

 ground, singly and in groups, the contrast favors observation. In the 

 manner that the modern chemist describes the molecule do these fine 

 particles fi)rm groups and the picture presented in the field 

 of view so strikingly resembles the molecular conception of the 

 present day as to almost tempt one to believe that the atom had at 

 last become visible, provided we assumed that the fine particles 

 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



of the material, as revealed under the microscope, are atoms. It 

 possesses no dichroism. Specific gravity 2.566. 



When heated in a Buusen flame it slightly decrepitates and emits 

 the yellow light due to sodium. When heated in a test tube it 

 gradually becomes dark gray, indicating some carbonaceous matter 

 and, when heated strongly, an oily matter and water having an acid 

 reaction are emitted. Heated with the blowpipe on charcoal with 

 carbonate of soda it effervesces and finally produces a white enamel. 

 Heated by itself, on the charcoal, it produces an intense white incan- 

 descence and, reheated with cobalt solution, a fine blue is obtained. 



It is not soluble in Avater, sulphuric, hydrochloric or nitric acids, 

 but if boiled with a caustic alkali it dissolves. If, however, the 

 substance is brought to a red heat and there maintained for some 

 time, it is then dissolved by any of the above named acids. 



The chemical analysis, made in duplicate, resulted as follows: 



Alumina (AL.Oa) 33.40 per cent. 



Sulphate alumina (AL^O^SO;;) 7.18 " 



Sulphate potassium (K2 SO4 ) 17.00 " 

 Sulphate sodium (NA., SO, ) 4.91 " 



Water (H, 6) 31.57 " 



Carbonaceous matter, difference 5. 94. 



The carbonaceous matter was not especially determined in the be- 

 lief that in all probability it is an accidental admixture foreign to the 

 composition of the original substance. 



From the analysis above given it is evident that the compound is 

 a highly basic sulphate, and, eliminating the percentage of carbona- 

 ceous matter and finding the oxygen ratios between the sulphur triox- 

 ide, the alumina and all the monoxides, the composition determined 

 is as follows: 



Alumina (AL. O;; ) 39.79 per cent. 18.68 per cent. Oxygen. 



Potassium oxide (Ko O) 7.37 " " 1.25 " " 



Sodium oxide (NA.. O) 1.72 " " 0.44 " " 

 Water (H, 6) 33.56 " " 29.82 " " 



Sulphur trioxide (SO.) 17.55 " " 10.52 " " 



The ratios of the SO3 , ALo O3 , R^ are nearly as : 

 1, 2,' 8 



which may be represented by the formula: 



(ALo O, ) ., - SO, - (Ro 0)3 . 



Here R2 represents Ko , NA2 , H^ . 



There are a number of basic sulphates recorded, all of which seem 




1894. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



to be soluble iu acids, although the one under discussion is not. I 

 would, therefore, propose Kauaiite as a name for the new variety. 

 The extremely fine division and the approach to crystallization with- 

 out forming true geometrical solids may suggest the mode of its for- 

 mation. It may, with the exception of the carbonaceous matter, be 

 ejected as volcanic. An objection might be based on the large 

 percentage of water, but we must remember that in some volcanoes 

 water is an almost constant ingredient of their ejectments, and we may, 

 therefore expect to occasionally meet with so-called hydrous com- 

 pounds in the material thrown out. The aluminium may have been 

 distilled by the intense volcanic heat together with the other elemen- 

 tary metals and metalloid sulphur. Coming in contact with the 

 atmosphere, the material was oxydized and quickly precipitated on 

 the cooler surface of the earth, giving no time for the formation of 

 crystals. If corundum is reduced and volatilized by the heat pro- 

 duced in the electrical furnace, we may expect similar results from 

 the enormous heat energy of a volcano. 



Volcanic Stalactites. — That the highly heated and very fluid lava 

 in the crater of Kilauii, as well as in other craters, is occasionally 

 shot up into the air some thirty feet or more, has been reported at 

 various times and has also been observed by the gentlemen before 

 referred to. Such lava iu its descent through the air becomes very 

 porous. If such a highly porous rock have a space underneath, a 

 fresh deposit of liquid lava will trickle through the porous cooled 

 lava, forming as it solidifies the pendent stalactites shown iu Plate VI. 

 These stalactites are about one-fourth of an inch thick and about 

 eight inches long. They show no disposition to form cones like those 

 usually seen in limestone caves. These slender, gnarled, rod-shaped 

 formations are mostly hollow and porous and so brittle that it is diffi- 

 cult to prepare a thin section for microscopical study. The color is 

 usually a deep black, sometimes a part is of a brownish tint, due, 

 probably, to a higher oxidation of the magnetite present. Occasion- 

 ally a gray color is noticed but this is caused by the incrustation of 

 some other substance. To ascertain its probable mineralogical com- 

 position, it was necessary to use the fine powder, imbedding it as usual 

 in balsam. The fragments examined beneath the microscope indicate 

 a glassy feldspar having apparently the characteristic of sanidiue. 

 They contain magnetite in great profusion and also gases, 

 probably air. A dichroic mineral is also recognizable in the mixture, 




108 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



but whether it is augite or not is at present uncertain. A fragment 

 weighing 2.459 grams in air, and 1.297 grams in distilled water had 

 a specific gravity of 2.11, evidently far too low for lava as generally 

 known, undoubtedly due to the extremely porous nature of the ma- 

 terial. By producing a coarse powder and taking the specific gravity 

 in a picnometer, the result is 2. 85. 



Considered from a chemical standpoint, this lava is decidedly 

 basic, as the quantity of silica determined analytically was 48.55 

 per cent. 



The specific character of this rock, now shown in the form of stalac- 

 tites is that of the so-called vesicular basalt. 



On some of these volcanic stalactites, there had formed a thin 

 layer of colorless crystals so small that their form could be recog- 

 nized only under power. These 

 thin prismatic crystals are attach- 

 ed to one end and terminated by 

 short pyramids; on certain faces 

 they are longitudmally striated. 

 In the groups are frequently seen 

 twin crystals whose dual faces 

 are mostly the longer axis. Fig- 

 ure 1, magnified about 4 diame- 

 ters, shows how the crystals are 

 attached to the volcanic stalac- 

 tites. A slide, prepared and ob- 

 served under a power of about 

 45 diameters shows the twin- 

 formations of the crystals. Fig. 

 2. That these crystals belong 

 to the monoclinic system is evident 

 from the fact of their inclined ex- 

 tinction which, upon measure- 

 ment, was found to be 37°, the 

 longer axis of the crystals being 

 zero to extinction over the pyra- 

 mid. The colors of polarization 



were brilliant. Dichroism was 



Fig. 1. Volcanic stalactite covered , . i • . i , n „„ 



with sclenite, x 4. unnoticed ni these forms. 



With the aid of Toulet solution the specific gravity of the material 




1894.] 



NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



at my command (about 8 milligrams) was found to be 2.285. It is 

 soluble in water and gives the reactions indicating sulphur trioxide 

 and calcium oxide. The incrusting small crystals are, therefore, 

 selenite. 



Fig. 2. Crystal and twin forms of selenite, x 45. 



I am indebted to Professors Sharp and Libbey for the material 

 studied and also for the photographs of the volcanic cave. 



Plate VI shows the entrance to the cave with its overhang- 

 ing roof of porous basalt from which are suspended the irregularly 

 gnarled rods of volcanic stalactite; on the floor are scattered 

 fantastic-shaped volcanic stalagmites which seem to be much 

 thicker than the pendant rods above. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



April 3. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publica- 

 tion : — 



"A Revision of the Genus Anous." By Witmer Stone. 



"On the true character and relationship of Ursus cinnamomeus 

 Aud. and Bach." By Arthur Erwin Brown. 



Dr. C. Newlin Peirce was elected a member of the Council to 

 serve for the unexpired term of Mr. Gavin W. Hart, resigned. 



April 10. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



April 17. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



April 24. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons pi*esent. 



A paper entitled "A Review of the Old World Rallinae" by 

 Witmer Stone, was presented for publication. 



The deaths of Wm. V. Keating, M. D. and J. Howard Gibson, 

 members, were announced. 



The following were elected members: — A. B. van der Wielen, 

 Rev. Leander Trowbridge Chamberlain, D. D., Charles G. Macey 

 and J. W. Parker. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW ARMADILLO, WITH REMARKS ON THE GENUS 



MULETIA GRAY. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Tatusia (Muletia) propalatum Rhoads, sp. nov. , Type No. 334fl, Col. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., juv. ad. 9. ''Baliia, Brazil, E. D. Cope." 



Size smaller than T. hyhrida Desm., with relatively longer and 

 more slender tail, equalling length of body. Free rings of tail, ex- 

 cluding basal superior half-ring and subterminal attached ring, 10. 

 The last, with remaining distal portion of tail, measuring one- third 

 total length of tail. Posterior edges of caudal rings flaring, giving 

 the tail a roughly serrate outline. Distal end ot tail very slender, 

 pointed, the tesserae diamond shaped. Basal tail rings with double 

 row of tesserie, the basal row becoming relatively shorter nearest 

 body while on the last (distal) rings the tesserse of both rows are of 

 equal length in each ring. Rows of tesserae on pelvic shield, counted 

 near border and including the wide anterior semi-free ring, 22. Free 

 dorsal rings, 7, preceded anteriorly by wide posterior ring of shoulder- 

 shield of tesserae similar in formation to dorsal rings. Larger tes- 

 seme of free dorsal rings slender, wedge shaped, their posterior cor- 

 ners scarcely divided by the points of slender awl-shaped intervening 

 tesseraj, the bases of latter, half the width of ends of former. Rows 

 of tessene on shoulder-shield counted near border, 17, similar in 

 arrangement of tesser?e to those of pelvic shield. Ears five-eighths 

 length of head, finely scaled and set close together at base. Crescentine 

 coronal shield separated by a freely moving nexus of skin from 

 frontal cephalic shield. Three distinct rows of tesserte before and 

 beneath the eye. Frontal tessene relatively smaller than in other 

 species of Tdtuskke. Manus 4-toed, pes 5-toed. From each papilla 

 of protected lower parts springs a short, slender bristling hair of same 

 color as skin, averaging one- fourth inch in length. Skin yellowish white. 

 Upper parts and tail amber yellowish, nose and ears near tips 

 brownish, the toes of same color. 



Skull slenderly and regularly pyriform. Zygomatic width not 

 exceeding the mastoid, tapering regularly to the rostrum. Greatest 

 depth of cranium over two-thirds its greatest width. Interorbital 

 width over two-thirds zygomatic width, the frontals nearly obscuring 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



the orbital fossa as viewed from above. Lachrymals triangular, lateral, 

 not visible from above, their anterior apices overlying second posterior 

 upper grinder. Roof of mouth deeply grooved. Palatal bones slightly 

 hollowed centrally but without posterior raised edges. Pterygoids 

 rounded, divided by a slit 1 mm. wide their entire length, reaching 

 a slight postpalatal notch. Palatal bones anteriorly reaching be- 

 yond anterior base of last upper molar. Upper molar series H on 

 a side : no indication of a seventh, on dissection. Lower molar series 

 8 on a side, including a minute thread-like anterior premolar, 

 evidently deciduous and widely separated from the next. Coronoid 

 process of mandible long and very slender. 



Measurements. — Body, along back, from fore end of shoulder 

 shield to I'oot of tail, 115-'^; head and neck, from tip of nose to 

 shoulder shield (above) 58; hind foot, 40; ear, from crown 29, 

 its greatest width (flattened) 19. Skull; occipito-nasal length, 48; 

 zygomatic breadth, 21; interorbital constriction, 15; length of 

 nasals, 15; basal length of upper molar series, 11; length of man- 

 dible, 34. 



The type specimen is about two-thirds of the maximum development, 

 judging by a series of skins and skulls of T. novemcincta. Tatusia 

 {Muletia) hybrida is the only described species with which it must be 

 compared. From hybrida in the Academy's collection it is 

 distinguished by: 1 seven free dorsal bands; 2 longer slender- 

 pointed tail; 3 comparative number of shoulder and pelvic 

 girdle rows ; 4 absolute number of free caudal rings; 5 greater 

 relative length of ears; 6 much gi'eater relative depth to width 

 of cranium; 7 much greater relative interorbital width; 8 

 separation (lateral) of the pterygoids; 9 palatine bones reaching 

 beyond anterior base of last upper molar (in hybrida they fall short 

 of the molar series 1 mm.) ; 10 coronoid process slender from base 

 to tip, (not triangular). 



Dr. J. E. Gray in the Proceedings of the Loudon Zoological 

 Society, 1874, page 244, redescribes the Short-tailed Armadillo, 

 Tatusia hybrida (Desm.), and places it in a new genus, which he 

 calls Muletia, separating it trom Tatusia in the following diagnosis : 



"1 Tatusia. Tail cylindrical, elongate, as long or longer than 



* Millimeters. 




1894.] NATITRAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



the body, of many rings and numerous caudal vertebrae. Ears 

 large. Dorsal disk with 9-7 free bands. Tatusia peba &c." 



"2. Maletia. — Tail short, depressed at base, not so long as the 

 body, with thirteen rings and thirteen caudal vertebrae. Ears small, 

 dorsal disk with six free bands. Muletia septemcinda &c." 



As above characterized, Dr. Gray's new genus is a fair sample of 

 more than half the new genera proposed by him! No very careful 

 examination will show that the two species which he makes typical of 

 these genera share equally some of the characters assigned as dis- 

 tinctive, while those given which are distinct are of doubtful generic 

 or subgeneric value. The number of free dorsal bands above is 

 doubtfully of more than specific value between the numbers 10 

 and 6. Tatusia novemcincta has from 8 to 10. Desmarest says that 

 ^^ Dasyjnis hjbridus" has "six ou sept bandes mobiles a la cuirasse." 



However, in makiug an examination of the specimen above de- 

 scribed as new, I was struck to find in it not only a superficial re- 

 semblance to T. hyhrida as compared with T. peba, but that it agreed 

 with Dr. Gray's figure of hyhrida (1. c. PI. XLI) in having only 

 twelve upper teeth as against the fourteen or sixteen always present 

 in T. novemcinda. To convince myself of the constancy of this 

 character I have examined several skulls of both species and found 

 no exception. In all the other plates of the various newly described 

 Tatusiiue I have seen, in no case are they represented with less than 

 fourteen upper teeth. 



Should a more exhaustive examination show no exceptions, it 

 would be proper to at least accord subgeneric rank to iLTw/eim, with 

 the following diagnosis : 



Genus TATUSIA. 



Tail longer than body, its first basal ring complete, the distal two- 

 thirds with a well-defined inferior median canal, increasing in depth 

 with age, and in number to three and five near the extremity. 

 Caudal rings convex, each closely compressed posteriorly upon the 

 next. Dorsal disk with eight to ten free bands; upper molars, four- 

 teen to sixteen; lower molars, ditto. Type Tatusia novemcinda 

 (Linn.) Cuv. 



Subgenus MULETIA. 



Tail not exceeding length of body, not channeled distally. Cau- 

 dal rings with free, elevated posterior margins, the first basal seg. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



ment a crescentine half-riug, clasping tlie superior anterior portion of 

 second ring, the latter being produced forward beneath it. Dorsal 

 disk with six to seven free bands; upper molars, twelve; lower 

 molars, fourteen to sixteen. Type Tatiisia {Iluletia) hybrida 

 (Desm.) Gray. 



The nine-banded Armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus Linnjieus, Syst. 

 Nat., 1758, 51, has quite generally gone under the specific name 

 peba of Desmarest, (Mamm. 1820, 368), who puts the f<eptemcinctus, 

 odocinctus and novemcinchis of Linnreus, Erxleben and Boddaert 

 among his synonyms, implying that these are composite species and 

 indistinguishable. The use of Desmarest's name j)eba is unwar- 

 ranted, the original Linnsean description and references relating, in 

 the main, unmistakably to the same animal. The first reference to 

 /)e/;« (Seba Mus. I, p. 45, tab. 29, Fig, 1), is. unmistakably the 

 nine- banded species; see also his reference to Marcgrave. 



Dr. Gray (sup. cit. pp. 245, 246), discusses the identity and 

 synonymy of Tatusia hybrida (Desm. ), and names it T. septemcinda 

 after Schreber (SJiugt., 1775, II, 220), who there describes a species 

 which he considers the same as Linneeus' Dasypus of the same name, 

 quoting the Systema Naturte, 12th edition, in which it is the same as 

 in the 10th. In these Linmeus describes a "Dasypus" — " D. 

 cingulis septenis, palmis tetradactylis, '^ * * Habitat in Indiis. " 

 Schreber's description and figure fiurly represent what Dr. Gray 

 chooses to call " Midetia septemcincta," but as this specific name was 

 first applied by Linnaeus to an unrecognizable Armadillo _/ro»i India 

 it is inapplicable to a six-banded Armadillo from South America. 



Desmarest's Dasypus hybridus is the first indisputable name for a 

 short-tailed, six or seven- banded Tatusiah-om tropical America. Dr. 

 Gray's disgust at the barbarous name of hybridus, by which Des- 

 marest probably referred less to the animal's pedigree than to its 

 asinine ears, seems utterly inconsistent with the naming of his new 

 genus. As such, however, it may nominally be allowed to stand, 

 not only as a warning to the future namer of names, but in the in- 

 terests of an overburdened synonymy. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 115 



A REVISION OF THE GENUS ANOUS. 

 BY WITHER STONE. 



Having recently had occasion to identify some specimens of Anous 

 and make comparison with Gould's types of A. leucocapilliis and A. 

 melanops, I was surprised to find what confusion existed in regard to 

 the proper disposition of the names which have been proposed for 

 several members of the genus. 



With the object of straightening out the synonymy of the group I 

 have made a careful study of the literature bearing upon the subject 

 and have examined the large series of specimens in the museum of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and a number of 

 specimens loaned to me by the U. S. National Museum through the 

 kindness of Mr. Robert Ridgway. 



The species of the genus Anous are separable into two groups, the 

 larger dark colored birds (Anous) and the smaller light colored ones 

 {Pwcelsterna). 



Of the latter there seem to be two well marked species, A. caeru- 

 leus and A. cinereus, though Mr. Saunders, strange to say, unites 

 them in his monograph of the Sterniuae (Proc. Zool. Soc. 1876, p. 

 671) ^^'^thout comment. 



In regard to the dark colored species there has been no confusion 

 in connection with the two large species, A. stolidus and A. galapa- 

 gensis, but when we study the smaller species we immediately find 

 difficulties. 



Four names have been employed for the three recognizable species: 



Sterna tenidrostris Temm. PI. Col. 202 (1838). 



Anous melanops Gould. P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845). 



Anous leucocapmus Gould. P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845). 



Anous melanogemjs Gray. Gen, Birds, III, p. 661, PI. 182 

 (1849). 



Gould's A. melanops is regax-ded by Mr. Saunders as a synonym 

 of J., tenidrostris (Temm.) and a comparison of the types with Tem- 

 minck's plate amply confirms his decision. 



The ^1. leucocdpillus of Gould, however, is the bird which Mr. 

 Saunders figures and identifies as A. melanogenys Gray. What 

 Gray's bird really is I am unable to say; if it is the species with 




116 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



which Mr. Saunders identifies it, the figure is certainly very poor, but 

 the name will have to be considered a synonym of A. lemocapillus 

 Gould. 



The sooty brown-h\?ic\i species so well figured and described by 

 Mr. Saunders (P. Z. S, 1876, PL LXI, Fig. 3) as " ^. leucocapillus 

 Gould ' ' seems to be the most distinct of the three, but is, so far as I 

 can ascertain, unnamed. I therefore propose for it the name of A. 

 atrofuscxts. 



The following table will serve to distinguish the species : 



a. General color of plumage sooty-brownish, or blackish slate. 

 b. Size larger, wing 10 ins. or more. 



c. Plumage sooty -brown A. stolidus 



d . Plumage darker, more slaty ... .A. galapagensis 

 h' . Size smaller, wing 9 ins. or less. 



e. Plumage ^ooiy-hrown, white of head sharply defined 



posteriorly A. atrofnscus 



c' . Plumage blackish slate, white of head shading grad- 

 ually into the color of the back. 



d. Lores light slate colored A. tenuirosirxs 



d'. Lores jet black A. leucocapillus 



a'. General color of plumage very light gray. 



b. Nearly pure white beneath A. cinereus 



b'. Light gray beneath, nearly uniform with the back. 



A. caeruleus 



Anous stolidus Linn. 



Sterna doUda Linn., Syst. Nat., 1, p. 227 (1766). 



/Sterna /».9cato Linn., Syst. Nat., 1, p. 228 (1766). 



(Sterjia |)ifei^a Scop. , Del. Faun, et Flor. Insu])r. , I, p. 92, No. 73 

 (1786). 



Sterna senex Leach in Truckey's Exped. to the Congo, App. p. 

 408 (1818). 



yluoits /lir/ey Steph. , Shaw's Gen. Zool., XIII, 1, p. 140, PI. 17 

 (1825). 



Anous spadiacea Steph., Shaw's Gen. Zool., XIII, 1, p. 143 

 (1825). 



Sterna unicolor Hi ordm.,'Enn.yerz.y. Thier andPfl., p. 17(1835). 

 Anous TO KSi<eaui Hartl., Beitr. Orn. Madagasc. , p. 86 (1S60). 

 Hab. Intertropical seas north to Gulf coast of United States. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Anous galapagensis Sharpc. 



Aitoii-i gahqxigeims Shiu'pe, Traus. Pbilos. Soc, CLXVIII, 1879, 

 p. 469. 



Hab. Galapagoes Islands. 



Anous tenuirostris (Temm). 



Sterna tenuirostris Temm., PI. Col. 202 (1838). 

 Sterna melanops Gould., P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845). 



Hab. Senegal (Temminck), W. coast of Australia 'Gould). 



Mauritius (Saunders). 



The only specimens of this species that I have seen are the two 

 types of Gould's, A. melanops, a male and female from Hartman's 

 Abrolhos, Australia. These differ slightly from the figure given by 

 Mr. Saunders, for although the lores are light gray, they are uni- 

 form with the side of the neck rather than with the cap and there 

 is a distinct line of deraarkation passing from the base of the upper 

 mandible opposite the nostril to the upper edge of the eye, instead of 

 from the gape as drawn in Mr. Saunders' figure. 



This species is lighter colored than the next two and the cap is not 

 so white, being nearly uniform pearl gray from the base of the bill to 

 the nape. 



Anous leucocapillus Gould. 



Anous leucocapillus Gould, P. Z. S., XIII, p. 103 (1845). 



f Anous melanogenys G. R. Gray, Gen. Birds III, p. 661, PI, 

 182 (1849). 



Anous melanogenys Saunders, P. Z. S., 1876, p. 670. 



Hab. Raines Isl., Australia (Gould); Nilian Hawaiian Isls. (U. 

 S. N. M. coll.) British Honduras (U. S. N. M. coll.) Dangerous 

 Archipelago (U. S. N. M. coll.) 



The jet black lores and the darker slate black plumage readily dis- 

 tinguish this from the preceding species while the very different tint 

 of the plumage and the difference in extent of the white on the head 

 separate it from the following. 



Two specimens in the U. S. National Museum collection, one 

 labelled " Dangerous Archipelago " and the other "Pacific Ocean" 

 belong to this species, and it is probable that all the remarks in the 

 Reports of Peale and Cassin refer to this bird. This seems to be the 

 most abundant species of the genus after A. stolidus. 



Anous atrofuscus sp. nov. 



Anous leucocapillus Saunders, P. Z. S. , 1876, p. 670, not A. leu- 

 cocaplUus Gould. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Hah. Bristow Isl., New Guinea (Saunders). Montevideo (Coll. 

 A. N. S. Phila.) 



The &ro«'»-black color of the plumage and the uniform white of 

 the crown, sharply contrasted with the brown of the neck easily dis- 

 tinguish this species. Mr. Saunders' figure (P. Z. S., 1876, PI. LXI, 

 Fig. 3) is an excellent representation of this bird, although in the 

 specimens before me the white of the head does not extend quite so far 

 back. 



Description. — General color above and below uniform sooty broivn- 

 black, primaries black, lores, immediately in front of the eyes rather 

 blacker than the sides of the head. 



Crown from base of bill to occiput nearly pure white with the line of 

 demarkation between the white and general color of the hind neck very 

 sharply defined. Wing 8 -75 inch, culmen 1-80. 



Type. — No. 5,027 collection Acad. Nat.Sci. Philada. (from the col- 

 lection of the Duke of Rivoli) " Mer de Montevideo." 



One other specimen is in the collection of the Philadelphia Academy 

 (No. 5, 028) which was collected in the Southern Pacific by J. K. Town- 

 send. 



Anous cinereus Gould. 



Anous cuiereus Gould, P. Z. S. 1845, p. 104. 



Hab. E. Coast of Australia (Gould). 



Anous caeruleus (Bennett). 



Sterna caerulea Bennett, Narr. Whaling Voy. round the Globe, II, 

 Appendix, p. 248(1840). 



Anous parvulus Gould, P. Z. S., XIII, p. 104(1845). 



Hab. South Pacific; Christmas Isl. (Bennett), Dog Isl. (Peale, 

 U. S. Exp'l. Exped. spec, in U. S. Nat. Mus.). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIIiADELPHIA. 119 



ON THE TRUE CHARACTER AND RELATIONSHIPS 

 OF URSUS CINNAMOMEUS Aud. and Bach. 



BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



The origiual descriptiou of Ursus americaiius var. ciniK/momnvi^ 

 was based by Audubon and Bachman mainly upon fur-traders' 

 skins, and in the accompanying plate the animals were figured from 

 living specimens seen by Audubon in the Garden of the Zoological 

 Society of London. 



They characterize the species, briefly, thus : " Form and size of 

 the common American black bear, of which it is a permanent 

 variety. Color above, a dark cinnamon brown ; nose and a fringe 

 of hairs covering the claws yellow; " and regarding its range, they 

 sav "sparingly found in the fur countries west and north of the 

 Missouri, extending to the barren grounds of the northwest. " 



In the absence of all cranial and dental characters in their des- 

 cription, it has usually been supposed that their animals were nothing 

 more than examples of the well-known brown phase of Ursus ameri- 

 canu.% notwithstanding the fact that in their description of the latter 

 species (/. c. p. 188) the authors show that they were familiar 

 with its brown form and correctly estimated its position. 



Specimens have recently come under my observation which ap- 

 pear to show what Audubon and Bachmau's bear really was. and 

 that it is well distinguished from the form with which it has for so 

 long been confounded. 



The history of the material on which these conclusions are based 

 is as follows: — In December, 1873, a male bear was received at the 

 Garden of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, from Ogden, Utah, 

 which presented striking features of color and physiognomy when 

 compared with the already known species of American bear. This 

 specimen has always been associated in my mind with Audubon and 

 Bachmau's description, above quoted, but he is still living and the 

 impossibility of making a detailed examination of his skull has 

 hitherto prevented any definite conclusions from being reached. In 

 1884 a captive bear came to my notice at Green River, Wyoming, 



1 Quad, of North America, 1854, Vol. Ill, p. 125, PI. CXXVII. 




120 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



which offered the same striking external features as the first. This 

 animal I tried to purchase, but without success. Several years later 

 I had the good fortune to kill a third specimen, also an old male, in 

 the elevated and rugged region north of the White River, Colorado. 

 The skin and skull were roughly prepared in camp, but were after- 

 ward irrecoverably lost. In November, 1891, the late James E. 

 Cooper, a well-known showman of Philadelphia, procured, at some 

 point on the Union Pacific Railway in Wyoming, and presented to 

 the Zoological Society, another individual, identical in appearance 

 with the three others. This specimen has since died and the skin 

 and skeleton are now in the collection of the Academy. Finally, in 

 the summer of 1893, Prof. E. D. Cope procured in a cave in the 

 Ozark mountains, Missouri, a somewhat broken cranium of the same 

 type, which he has kindly placed at my disposal for investigation. 

 There are, therefore, presented for detailed examination two skulls, 

 a skin and one living specimen now in the Zoological Garden, and 

 while I am not able to give measurements from the skull collected by 

 me in Colorado, the features of the species are so extreme that I am 

 able to state without hesitation its substantial agreement with those 

 now presented. 



Cranial characters. — The first impression made by these skulls is 

 of great breadtli and massive development. The Academy's skull 

 (No. 3,308) is short and broad, offering the following measurements 

 in millimeters: — Basal length 274; basilar length 270; extreme 

 length 288; greatest zvgomatic width 203; post palatal length 123; 

 length of palate 147; breadth between orbits 74; across postorbital 

 processes 105. The Ozark skull has lost a considerable portion of 

 the facial region, but the difference in size between it and 3,308 was 

 small ; the distance from the inferior lip of the foramen magnum to 

 the plane of the front of the fourth premolar, being in the latter 212, 

 while in the Ozark specimen it is 216; in this one the zygomatic 

 width is about 198; interorbital breadth 80; across postorbital pro- 

 cess 114. 



The sagittal crest is high and massive, measuring in each 130 to 

 the point of division into the temporal ridges, which are strong, 

 especially in 3,308. The forehead is very concave, more so than in 

 any bear skull I have seen. In 3,308 it is also transversely con- 

 caves differing from the Ozark specimen, in which the same region 

 is transversely convex. This specimen wds perhaps a female. The 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



nasals in both are short and rather broad. A most striking feature 

 is the great breadth of the zygomatic arch, anteriorly, which charac- 

 ter, more than any other, gives to the living animal its peculiar 

 physiognomy. In 3, 308 the width at the glenoid fossae is 203 ; at the 

 hinder end of the palate it is but 5 mm. less and and at the plane of 

 the hinder edge of the second molar it is still 180. The broken con- 

 dition of the Ozark skull prevents the corresponding measurements 

 from being given, but enough remains to show their essential agree- 

 ment. In keeping with this character is the increased width of the 

 palate posteriorly, which measures 45 at plane of anterior edge of 

 fourth premolar and 52 at rear end of hinder molar. 



The base of skull is somewhat concave ; a line from the inferior 

 edge of foramen magnum to the proximal border of the alveolus in 

 3,308 falls 16 mm. below the hinder end of the palate. 



The lower jaw is massive and heavy; the angular process strong 

 and curved upward; the fossa for attachment of the masseter is ex- 

 traordinarily deep and rough. 



Dental characters: — The teeth in both skulls are much worn. 

 The hinder molar in the upper jaw is relatively of great size; in the 

 Academy's skull being .118 of the basilar length. The complete 

 series measures : m^ _-— , m'- /#^ii m^ ^^^ "-^ pm'* }%^^^ . In the 



HlxH 22..:)Xl.) 20x10 -t^ 11.0X6 



Ozark skull the lower jaw is missing and the only teeth remaining 

 are the upper right molars; these measure: m- ^11^, m^ 'il^^ p m'* 

 11^. The crowns of the teeth have been worn almost away and it 

 is clear that the hinder molar, especially, measures less than at an 

 earlier period. The second upper molar is broad and rounded be- 

 hind, the width being carried pretty well back to the posterior end; 

 in the Ozark specimen the outer side is someAvhat sloped off behind 

 as in horribilis, although it may be doubtful if this condition was 

 marked in the unworn tooth; there are three inner and two outer 

 cusps. The first molar is short and broad, with four cusps. The 

 fourth premolar is rather short and narrowed in front, the shelf-like 

 projection of the cingulum on the forward inner corner being less 

 than in the grizzly. 



The lower teeth are much worn; the fourth premolar had one 

 cusp, from which there are remains of two longitudinal ridges to the 

 hinder end ; it is not easy to say whether the small tubercle on the 

 inner base of the cusp was also present, but there is some indication 

 that it was. 

 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Color and form. — The living specimens of this bear which have 

 been under observation were of similar color, in winter pelage a rich 

 cinnamon brown. The tw^o which have lived in the Zoological Gar- 

 den for more than one season, became in summer of a pale bleached 

 brown, or Isabella color. The skin in the Academy's collection, be- 

 longing to skull 3, 308 is almost flaxen. 



The size of the four living specimens was nearly the same, about 

 5 ft. , 6 in. from nose to tail. 



The claw is short and curved as in amerieanus. 



The great anterior width of the zygomatic arch and the hollow 

 forehead are faithfully reflected on the outer surface in these bears, 

 the sharp drop between the eyes and the laterally pinched-in muzzle 

 giving them a peculiar and unmistakable, fox-like look. 



Identity and relationship. — In studying out the correct assignment 

 to be made of these bears, a considerable mass of material has been 

 examined, including, through the kindness of Mr. Oldfield Thomas, 

 the series of arctos and other bears in the British Museum ; and also 

 the collection of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. 



The great range of individual variation in most species of Ursns, 

 is well known : in my own observations amounting, in the leading 

 proportions of the skull, to over twenty per cent, in arctos; sixteen 

 per cent, in amerieanus, with a somewhat smaller range in Jiorri- 

 hilis. 



The table following shows the main standard measurements of the 

 skull in cinnamomeus, arctos, Jiorribilis and amerieanus, arranged 

 for convenience of comparison in the descending order of proportional 

 breadth ; the skulls selected for measurement pretty well covering 

 the extreme range in both directions. The proportions of zygomatic 

 breadth and length of hinder upper molar are expressed in 

 thousandths of the basilar length : — 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIJLADELPHIA. 



123 



Taking the meau measurements of these skulls, horribilis presents 

 the narrowest, with a relative average breadth of . 638 and a molar 

 of .112,— its maximum breadth falling far below that of ameWcamts, 

 from which it differs also in color, size and claw. 



The great frontal concavity, breadth of skull and more than all, • 

 great size of the molar, would appear to remove cimiamomeus very far 

 from americantis, but this comparison will be recurred to after con- 

 sidering the variations of arctos. 



In both of the proportions given, cinnamomeus greatly exceeds the 

 average of arctos, which is breadth .700; molar .107, — in each, how- 

 ever, it falls within the extremes of this unstable species, the greatest 



' Estimated ; the skull being broken. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



proportional breadth in arctos being .786 and the longest molar .121^ 

 This very wide arctos skull, however, presents the striking feature 

 of having the smallest molar of any examined by me .094 — and, 

 in fact, these measurements show that in this species an inverse pro- 

 portion pretty constantly exists between these characters; the widest 

 skulls have small molars, while the narrower ones have them of large 

 size and grade by a regular series into the proportions of horribilis. 

 Thus, in the eight arctos skulls given above, the four widest give an 

 average length of .1011 to the molar, while the four narrowest give 

 .112 J for the corresponding ratio. In contradistinction to this inverse 

 relation, the exact opposite exists in cinnamomens, — great breadth 

 being here conjoined with great size of molar. 



In some old skulls of arctos a considerable hollowness of the fore- 

 head is found, but in no case equal to that of 3,308 and the Ozark 

 skull. These features of great breadth, frontal concavity and great 

 raassiveness are, of course, among those which increase with age, but 

 it is a significant fact that we find them associated here in skulls of 

 very moderate size. The individuals of cinnamomeus which have 

 come under my notice were very old, three being males and the 

 fourth perhaps female ; they are so nearly equal in size that they 

 may be justly assumed to represent a fair extreme of growth for the 

 species. In 3,308 the skull is 288 mm. in greatest length, while to 

 find anything like an approximation to the same chai-acters in arctos 

 or even to get correspondingly old skulls, it is necessary to go to those 

 from 50 to 80 mm. greater in length. 



Comparing the above proportions, cinnamomeus, while greatly ex- 

 ceeding in both, the average of arctos, is yet surpassed in breadth by 

 one example and in length of molar by one; — arctos has two speci- 

 mens narrower than the broadest horribilis, one of them being the nar- 

 rowest of either species and six have lai-ger molars than the shortest of 

 the American form. The difference in average breadth between arctos 

 and americanus is comparatively small and they overlap greatly, 

 while the largest molar of the latter species is equal to, or larger than 

 four of arctos. 



It is impossible to avoid the conclusion that these proportions are 

 too irregular to be of importance except in groups of averages, and 



3 This skull is not fully ailult and is the shortest examined. With maturity 

 the proportions of this tooth would somewhat decrease. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



125 



their lack of value as specific characters may be readily estimated 

 from the following table, in which they are presented for each form, 

 in parallel descending series, showing at a glance the extent to which 

 each overlaps the others: — 



Nor is there more constancy in the details of tooth structure. On 

 the whole, arcto>< presents an upper hinder molar perhaps straighter 

 on the outer line and wider at its hinder extremity than is usual in 

 most of horribilis, but the, variations are great in both. Two adult 

 skulls of horrihilk, collected by me in Colorado, within fifty miles 

 of each other, exhibit almost the extreme of each form. 



The fourth upper premolar is apt to be longer in arctos and in 

 horribiUs there is more of a shelf- like projection of the cingulum at 

 its front inner corner, but hardly any two are alike and in each, ex- 



* Estimated ^ Young. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



amples are to be found approximating to the narrow front usual in 

 americanus. In arctos and horribilis the fourth lower premolar has 

 but one cusp, on the posterior, inner base of which a small projec- 

 tion or accessory cusp is usually found in the latter, with two longi- 

 tudinal ridges running back to end of the tooth. According to 

 Busk" the tubercle and its ridge are commonly wanting in arctos 

 and when present are very small. In two specimens in the British 

 Museum, both tubercle and ridge are absent, in all the others it is 

 present, though variable and small — but in one specimen of Ursus 

 arctos isahellhius from Cashmir, it is quite as well developed as in 

 ordinary cases of horribilis. Dr. C. Hart Merriam '' appears to have 

 found this tubercle in two skulls of americanus from Prairie Mer 

 Rouge, Louisiana, in the National Museum. In the skull of cinna,- 

 momeus (3,308) the ridge is unquestionably present and in all prob- 

 ability the tubercle as well. 



A tricuspid crown on this tooth appears to be diagnostic of ameri- 

 canus when it is present, but a large majority of this species examin- 

 ed by me, show but one cusp. 



A critical survey of the whole field of cranial and dental charac- 

 ters among the species here treated, reveals little that is constant but 

 variation, and absolutely forces the conviction that among them there 

 is not one, sufficiently stable and uniform to be of specific value. 

 The European bear and the American grizzly run into each 

 other so regularly that except in extreme cases there is little 

 possibility of distinguishing them certainly, or in many cases doubt- 

 fully, apart from geographical considerations, and this even is not a 

 safe guide, one skull in the British Museum, marked "Barren 

 Ground Bear," 321 mm. in extreme length, 229 zygomatic breadth 

 and 32 length of molar, being in all respects an ordinary skull of 

 arctos, which might just as well have been collected in Scandinavia 

 or Kamtchatka. Mr. J. A. Allen* does, in fact, regard this bear 

 as indistinguishable from arctos^. There is less difficulty in separat- 

 ing americanus from arctos, but even here it has been shown how 

 much their proportions overlap and one specimen from Transylvania, 



GTrans. Zool. Society of Loiidou, Vol. X, pp. 60-69. 

 Troc. Biol. Soc. of Washington. Vol. VIII, p. 150. 

 8 Bull. U. S. Geo. & Geo. Survey, Vol. II, p. 336. 



^ Since tlie above was written Dr. Merriam has kindly shown me several 

 skulls from the barren grounds which have distinct characters of their own. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



in the British Museum, 295 mm. long, presents the flat frontal 

 outline and the relative width of the American black species, coupled 

 ^vith the extreme dentition of ardos. 



Skulls of americanus reach nowhere the extreme proportions of 

 citnmmomeus, nor in ordinary specimens is there much suggestion of 

 its outlines. Two remarkable skulls, however, in the collection of the 

 Academy (Nos. 2,756 and 2,757) from Sonoma Co., California, marked 

 "brown bear" reach an extreme of breadth and length of tooth, in this 

 species, with a frontal depression almost equal to that of cinnamomeus, 

 although in the Sonoma specimens the plane of the forehead is con- 

 tinuous nearly to the end of the nasals and is but slightly concave. 

 These two skulls are the most extreme of americanus which I have 

 ever seen, but while I would have been glad to examine more speci- 

 mens of these brown bears than have been within reach, I am 

 yet prepared to hazard the belief that fully matured specimens will 

 show, as compared with black ones, a sometimes slight but fairly con- 

 stant excess both in breadth and size of molar. 



There can be here no question of specific difference, both colors 

 being found in the same litter of cubs and the fact can be explained 

 only by regarding it as an evidence of reversionary tendency to a 

 brown- colored, large-toothed ancestor, — such as ardos ; the physio- 

 logical correlation between hair and teeth being well known. If, as 

 I believe, the foregoing suggestion should be found to hold good in 

 a large series, there is certainly a tendency in brown specimens of 

 americanus toward the characteristics of cinnamomeus, and here also, 

 perhaps, room may be found for the special features of the Louisiana 

 skulls in the National Museum which Dr. Merriam^" recently ascribed 

 to Ursus luteolus Griffith. 



From these observations the conclusion is drawn that if horribills 

 and americanus are to stand as good species, as distinct from ardos as 

 they undoubtedly are from each other, cinnamomeus must be con- 

 sidered as even a Ijetter one. But whatever the differences may be 

 among the American forms, taken by themselves, a comparison with 

 a large series of ardos, brings to light such a degree of instability 

 and intergradation, that the only philosophical vie^Y which can be 

 taken of their relationship is that expressed some years ago by Mr. 

 J. A. Allen" but subsequently abandoned by him,^- at least so far as 



101. c. pp. 147-152. 



" Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., II, pp. 334-342. 



'2 Bull. U. S. G. & <l. Survey, II, No. 4, p. 340. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



americanus is concerned, viz. : that leaving out marlthnns, none of 

 our North American bears can be accorded higher rank than that of 

 subspecies of ardos. Indeed were it not for the combination of 

 certain skull and tooth averages, with some tolerably constant differ- 

 ences in color and the increased size of the claw in American speci- 

 mens, it is doubtful if even this distinction could be maintained be- 

 tween arctos and Iiorribilis ; both the large, broad-headed grizzlies of 

 California and the smaller, northern examples, pretty well closing 

 up the gap. 



In extreme cases americanus has become more differentiated and 

 is constantly smaller, but even here we have seen that the assumed 

 specific characters intergrade ; it is, however, better separated from 

 arctos than is horribiUs, and through its extreme forms the path to 

 cmnamomeus is perhaps indicated — as a large series of the latter may 

 show. Among Asiatic bears, isabelliniis and probably syriacus are 

 also closely related. The general direction of these relationships 

 appears to point to some such scheme as this : 



arctos • 



horrihilis 



cmnamomeus 

 americanus 



isabellinits S7jriaeiis 



Audubon and Bachman's name appeal's to be correctly applicable 

 to the bears whose cranial and dental characters are here given for 

 the first time. They agree sufficiently well in external features and 

 in geographical range as far as we have present knowledge, and the 

 assignment which I here make of them, I must regard as much pre- 

 ferable to the alternative course of imposing upon them a new name. 

 In the paper on Ursiis luteolus, already referred to. Dr. Merriam 

 denies the applicability of cinnamomeus to luteolus, and inferentially 

 to the present species, "because ciiiniuuomum was based on an animal 

 from the northern Rocky jNIountains,. which has small molars, like 

 the common black bear of the northeastern United States." This 

 assumption, however, has no basis but in the fact that up to the 

 present time we have known no brown bear from the Rocky Moun- 

 tain region other than the small- toothed americanus, which has 

 erroneously been supposed to be the animal on which Audubon and 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Baclinian founded their species, and falls to the ground with the ap- 

 pearance of the animal brought forward in this paper, leaving their 

 name free to be properly rehabilitated and established. Any other 

 course would be to hold these authors responsible for our own past 

 igaorance and would lack in justice to them. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



A REVIEW OF THE OLD WORLD RALLIN^. 

 BY WITHER STONE. 



While engaged in identifying the Rallidse in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, I was impressed with 

 the confusion which exists in regard to the synonymy of the Old 

 World members of the family, more especially with reference to the 

 generic position of many of the species and the limitation of the 

 several genera. 



G. R. Gray, in his Hand List, has increased the confusion to an ex- 

 traordinary degree, and it is difficult to imagine how he conceived 

 such an arrangement as is there proposed. 



Having had occasion to make a thorough investigation of the 

 literature bearing upon the Old World Rails, I think it desirable 

 to prepare the following list of the described species and genera 

 which brings together in one paper all the references to pub- 

 lished descriptions. Lack of sufficient material has prevented me 

 from making a monographic study of the group, but where 

 specimens were at hand I have been able to judge of the specific re- 

 lations of various described forms and to arrange the synonymy 

 accordingly. 



In other cases where the validity of species was in doubt I have 

 had to depend upon the statements of those authors who have had 

 actual specimens for comparison. 



This paper was nearly completed before I had an oppor- 

 tunity of examining Dr. Sharpe's scheme of classification of the 

 Rallidce (Ibis, 1893, p. 258). This is a mere list of genera arranged 

 according to the author's views with diagnoses of a number of new 

 genera. 



While it is impossible without better material for me to criticise 

 Dr. Sharpe's general arrangement it certainly seems that some 

 closely allied forms have been unduly separated. For instance, 

 while the old genus Rougetius is easily separable into two groups of 

 probable generic rank it does not seem to me that the differences 

 warrant the interposition of the entire series of Crakes between them. 




1894. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



It moreover seems hardly advisable to make so many genera out of 

 the old genus Porzana as is done in this scheme. 



Two of the generic names adopted by Dr. Sharpe ( Corethrura and 

 Rallina) are clearly untenable as is shown below. 



Although the Rails of the New World have been excellently 

 monographed by Messrs. Sclater and Salvin, P. Z. S. 1868, p. 442, 

 no recent attempt has been made at a systematic arrangement of the 

 Old World members of the family except in the paper by Dr. Sharpe 

 just referred to. 



The satisfactory arrangement in a lineal sequence of the genera of 

 any family, especially such a one as the Rallklce, is well nigh im- 

 possible, and there must necessarily be breaks in the series. 



From the typical Rails (Rallus and Hijpotaenidici) we can run in 

 one direction through jE'H/(^6eo>v;/s and the G'yjmiorTf.r group to the 

 Woodhens {Ofijdromus) unA again through DryoUmnas, Rougetius 

 and Euryzona towards the Crakes. In any case the genera Ocydro- 

 mus and Himantornis are extreme forms and had better stand 

 separately at the end of the series than be interpolated in the middle. 



Cabalus is evidently allied to Hypotuenidia and Canimllus to 

 Euryzona though they are both aberrant forms. 



With these ideas in mind I have begun my list with the genera 

 most nearly approaching the Woodhens and followed with the true 

 Rails passing from them to the Crakes. As Dr. Sharpe says the 

 Crakes merge on the one hand into the Rails and on the other into 

 the Gallinules, Amaurornis being the connecting link with the 

 latter. 



Of the Crakes I have recognized eight genera as follows : Crex, 

 Porzana, Lhnnohaenua, Limnocorax, Sarothrura, RalUcnla, Porz- 

 anula and Pennula. 



The Gallinules and Coots have not been included as I have 

 limited my paper to what are generally known as the Rallince though 

 it is an exceedingly difficult matter to draw a sharp line between the 

 several so-called subfamilies of the RalUdce. The genera Amauror- 

 7iis and Oenolhnnas^ have also been omitted as they seem to belong 

 with the Gallinules, and also the genera Ocydromiis " and Himantor- 



^Dr. Sliarpe arranges this genus (type J?a/lt7ta isabellina Schl.) with the 

 Crakes but it seems to me closely allied to Amaurornis. 



2 Monographed in BuUer's Birds of N. Zealand. See also Ibis, 1893, p. 261. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



nis which are, as has already been stated, hardly to be included with 

 the Rdllhicc^ 



Besides the Rallbue in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, I had the opportunity of studying the series 

 of Old World Rails in the collection of the U. S. National Museum 

 which were kindly loaned to me by Mr. Robert Ridgway, Curator 

 of the Department of Birds. 



The generic names which have been proposed for the O^d World 

 Rails with the type species of each are as follows : 



1758. — Rallus Linn., S. N. ed. 10, J, p. 153. R. aquaticus Linn. 

 1802. — Orex Bechst., Orn. Taschb. Deutschl.,p. 336. R. crex Linn. 

 lS16. — Orfi/gometra Leach, Syst. Cat. M. & B. Brit. Mus., p. 34. 



R. crex Linn. 

 1816. — Forzmia YieiW., Analyse, p. 61. R. porzana Ijinn. 

 1816. — Zivpornia Leach, Syst. Cat. M. & B. Brit. Mus., p. 34. 



Z. mimita Leach. 

 1829. — Phalaridion Kauii.,'Entvf. Eur. Thierw., p. 173. Gallinula 



pusilla & pygmaea, 

 1837. — Aledhelia Swains., (nee Less., 1826). 

 IMA.—Eulabeornis Gould, P. Z. S., 1844, p. 56. E. castaneo- 



ventris Gould. 

 1845.—RamfesFuch., Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 277. R. pvslllus. 

 1845.— Bioms Puch., Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 278, B. typus Fuch. 

 1846. — Coref/imra Gray, Gen. Bds., Vol. Ill (nee Hope 1844). 

 1848. — Rallina Reich., Syn. Av., Vol. Ill, Rasores. R. maximns 



Vieill. 

 1852. — Hypotaenidia 'Reich., Syst. Av., p. xxiii. R. pectoralisCuv. 

 1854. — Limnocoixix Peters, Monatsber. K. P. Ak. Wissensch. Berlin, 



p. 134. L. capeiisis Peters. 

 1856 — Lewinia Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 599. R. brachi- 



pus Sw. 

 1856. — Rougetius Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 599. R. abys- 



sinicus RujDp. 

 1856. — Euryzona Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 599. R. 



fasciata RafH. 

 1856. — Cotur I deops Bonap. , Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 599. Falica 



noveboracens'is Gra. 

 1856. — Ccmira^/tts Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 600. Core- 



thrara griseofrons Gray. 



* Of the following genera (most of whicli contain but a single species) I have 

 no specimens for examination and have followed the statements of other authors 

 as to their attinities: A)amidopsis, Habroplila, Megacrex, GyvDiocrex, 

 Tricholivinas, Cabahis, Caslaiiolininas, Penmda, Porzanula, Hallicula and 

 Aphanolii)i)ias. 




1894.] natukaij sciences ob' phujadeiiPhia. 133 



ISm. —Habroptila Gray, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 365. H. ivdladi Gray. 

 1871.— Rallicula Schl.", Ned. Tijclsch. Dierkunde, IV, p. 55. R. 



mhra Schl. 

 1872. — Limnobaenus Suiid., Meth. Nat. Av., p. 130. Gallliiida 



nibigiiwsa Temm. 



1874. — Cahalus Huttou, Trans. N. Z. Inst., VI, p. 108. K mo- 



destus Hutton. 

 1875. — Gymnocrex Salvad., Ann. Mus. Genov., VII, p. 678. Eal- 

 lina rosenbergii Schl. 



1875. — Corethrurops!s Salvad., Ann. Mas. Genov., VII, p. 975. 



C. leucospda Salvad. 

 1876. — Sehizoptda Briiggm., Ahhl. Nat. Ver. Bremen, 5 Bd. p. 94, 



RalUna rosenbergii Schl. 

 1879.— il/e(/acre.r D' Alb. & Salvad., Ann. Mus. Genov., XIV, p. 



130. M. inepia D'Alb. & Salvad. 

 1879. — Pennula Dole, Haw. Annual, 1879, p. 54. P. mdlei Dole. 

 1884. — Psammocrex Oustalet, La Nature, 1884, p. 508. P. petiti, 



Oustalet. 

 1890. — Sarothr lira Heine, Nomeucl. Mus. Heine, p. 319. 

 1892.— KitfUzia Hartl., (uec Hartertl891) Abhl. Nat. Ver. Bremen, 



XII, heft 3, p. 391. E. monasaKittl 

 1892.— Aphfowlimu'is Sharpe, Bull. B. O. C, No. 4, p. xx. R. 



monasa Kittl. 

 1892.— Porzanula Frohawk, Ann. N. H., 6 (ix), p. 247. P. pal- 



meri Froh. 

 1893. — Aramidopsis Sharpe, Ibis, 1893, p. 568. R. plateni 



Blasius. 

 1893. — TrichoUmnm Sharpe, Ibis, 1893, p. 260. Gallirallus lajres- 



nai/anus Verr. 

 1893. — Dnjolimnas Sharpe, Ibis, 1893, p. 260. R. euvieri Pucher. 

 1893. — Cakinwlimwis Sharpe, Ibis, 1893, p. 260. R. canningi 



Blyth. 

 189?>.—Crecopsis Sharpe, Ibis, 1893, p. 260. P. egregia Peters. ' 

 The relegation of some of these names which have been in more or 

 less common use, to synonymy requires some little explanation. 



Ortygometra Leach, is simply a synonym of Crex though it has 

 been used wrongly for species belonging elsewhere. 



Zapornia, Cotnrnicops, Phalaridion and Rcdlites, are all synonyms 

 of Porzann, the first two being well marked sub-genera. 



* The above list does not include a number of generic names proposed by 

 Heine in 1893 (Noraend. Mus. Hein.) for well known genera of Bonaparte and 

 other authors which had been in use for many years. These names would, of course, 

 only find a place in the synonomy and it seems scarcely worth while to take any 

 notice of them, such a Wholesale introduction of new names being a most un- 

 warrantable proceeding. One of Heine's names, however, Sarothrura.^ will 

 have to stand as the name Corelhruva, for which it was proposed as a substitute, 

 is preoccupied. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Alecthelia and Corethncra were both proposed for the small Rails 

 here called Sarofhrura, but both names were already in use in 

 other connections. 



JBiensis and Lewinia are synonyms of Rallus. 



Rallina has been employed by various authors for a variety of 

 species. Reichenbach first proposed the name in his Synopsis Avium, 

 Vol. Ill, Rasores, Fam. Rallintie, including under it a large 

 number of species, and it has been generally used since for the 

 Rails allied to It. enryzona. It seems, however, that no type was 

 cited for the genus until the appearance of Reichenbach's Systema in 

 which he restricts the name to the South American species allied to 

 R. maxivms, this species being the type. Unfortunately this species 

 had already been made the type of the genus Aramides, so that Ral- 

 Ihia becomes a synonym of this latter genus and we must adopt the 

 name Euryzona Bonap. for the Rails allied to R. euryzona as already 

 proposed by Dr. Stejneger (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. , 1887, p. 396). 



Schizoptila is a pure synonym of Gymnoerex while Kittlizia is pre- 

 occupied and the name Aphanolimnas was proposed in its stead by 

 Dr. Sharpe. 



AEAMIDOPSIS Sharpe. 

 l9,%^.—ATamldopsu Sharpe, Ibis. p. 568 (Bull. B. O. C). 



Aramidopsis plateni (Blasuis). 



Rallus 2>h I tem^Xdcsin^, Braunschw'eigischer Anzeiger, Mar. 3, 1886. 



Hab. Celebes. 



HABROPTILA Gray. 

 ISeO.—Habropfila Gray, R Z. S., p. 365. 



Habroptila wallacii Gray. 



H<ibwpflki waUacil' Gray, P. Z. S., 1860, p. 365. 



Hab. East Gilolo. , 



MEGACREX D'Alb & Salvad. 

 1879.~3fegacrex D'Alb. & Salvad., Ann. Mus. Civ. Genov., XIV, 

 p. 130 (type 31. inepta D'Alb. ct Salvad.). 



Megacrex inepta D'Alb. & Salv. 



Mecjucrex inepAa D'Alb. & Salvad., Ann. Mus. Civ. Genov., XIV, 

 (1879) p. 130. 



Hab. New Guinea. 



GYMNOCREX Salvad. 

 1875. — Gyi)tiiocrex, Salvad., Ann. Mus Civ. Genov., VII, p. 678 



(type Ralllua roseiibeiyll Schl.). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



187^.— SchizoptlJa Briigg., Abhl. Nat. Ver. Bremen, 5 Bd., p. 94 

 (type Rallina roaenbergii Schl.). 



Gymnocrex rosenbergii (Schl.). 



B'lllina rosenbergii Schl., Ned. Tijdschr. Dierk,, III, p. 212 



(1866). 



Giimnocrex rosenbergii Salvad., Ann. Mus. Civ. Genov. , VII, p. 

 678 (1875). 



Schizopfila rosenbergii Briiggeman, Abhl. Nat. Ver. Bremen, 5 Bd. 

 p. 94 (1876). 



Hab. Celebes. 



Gymnocrex plumbeoventris (Gray). 



Ballus plionbeoveniris Gray, P. Z. S., 1861, p. 432 (Mysol). 

 Ballus hoeveni Rosenb. ,' Nat. Tijdschr. Ned. Ind., 1867, p. 144. 

 RaUus intadus Sol., P. Z. S., 1869, p. 120 (Solomon Isl.). 

 Hab. Solomon Isl. &c. 



TEICHOLIMNAS Sharpe. 



1893. — Tricholimnas Sharpe, Ibis, p. 260 (type GalUrallm lafres- 

 nayanus Verr. ). 



Tricholimnas lafresnayanus (Verr. & Desm.). 



GalUrallm lafresnayanus Verr. & Desm., Rev. Zool., 1860, p. 



437. 



Hab. New Caledonia. 



EULABEORNIS Gould. 



l^U.—Eulabeornis Gould, P. Z. S., 1844, p. 56 (type E. casta- 

 neoventris Gould). 

 This genus of which the type is before me seems to contain but a 

 single species. The Gallirallus lafresnayanus Verr. & Desm., 

 which has been referred by some authors to Eulabeornis and by 

 others to Ocydromiis, has been placed in a distinct genus by Dr. 

 Sharpe. 



Eulabeornis castaneoventris Gould. 



Eahibe<jrni» castaneoventris Gould, P. Z. S. , 1844, p. 56. 



Hab. Cape York Peninsula, Australia. 



KALLUS Linn. 



1758. — Rallus Linn., Syst. Nat. I, p. 153 (type B. aquatinis L.). 

 1845. — Bieiisis Pucher., Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 278 (type B. typm 



Puch.). 

 1856. — Leivinia Bonap. , Compt. Rend., 1856, p. 599 (type B. 

 leivinia Sw. ). 

 The two species which have been separated from true Ballus 




136 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



under the generic names Biensis and Lewinia do not seem to me 

 sufficiently distinct to warrant their separation. Rallus bruehipus 

 (type 0^ Lewinia) is the connecting link to Hijpotaenidia as regards 

 plumage, being very near to the H. striata group. 



Rallus aquaticus Linn. 



Rallus aquaticvs Linn., S. N. ed. 10, I (1758), p. 153. 



Hab. Europe. 



Rallus indicus Blyth. 



Bulliis indicus Blyth, Jour. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, XVIII, p. 820 

 (1849). 



f Rallus japonicus Dresser, Bds. of Europe, VII (1878), p. 261. 



Hab. Bengal, Nepaul, Japan, etc. 



This species is the eastern representative of the former. 



Rallus coerulescens (Im. 



RuUus coerulescens Gm. , S. N. I, p. 716, 1788. 



Hab. S. Africa. 



Rallus madagascariensis Desj. 



Rallu.s mad(((jascariensts Desj., P. Z. S., 1831, p. 45. 

 Biensis typus Pucheran, Rev. ZooL, 1845, p. 278. 

 Hab. Madagascar. 



Rallus bracMpus Sw. 



Rallus brachipus Sw. , Anini. in Menag. , (1838) p. 336. 



Rallus Lewinii Sw. , Anim. in Menag., p. 336. 



"Rallus pectoralis Cuv. ," fide Pucheran, Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 



278. 

 Hab. Australia. 



Rallus muelleri Rothsch. 



R(dlu.^ muelleri Rothsch., Ibis., 1893, p. 442. 



Hab. Aukland Isl., New Zealand. 



A close ally of the preceding. 



HYPOTAENIDIA Reichb. 

 1850, — Hypotaoiidia Reichh., Syst. Avium, p. XXIII (type " R. 

 pectorcdis Gould " = i?. philippensislj.). 

 Reichenbach gives as the type of his genus " Rallus pectoralis 

 Cuv." which Pucheran states is Rallus brachipus Sw. ; the bird 

 figured on the plate to which we are referred, however, is the " Ral- 

 lus pectoralis Gould " which is R. phillppensis Linn. 

 This genus comprises three groups of species: 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



a. Those allied to H. striatus which have the bars on the wing 



feathers all white and which make an easy transition to 



Rallus through B. bi-achijnis. 

 h. Those allied to R. philippensis which have the bars on the 



^nng feathers reddish brown, except the two outermost 



primaries, 

 c. Those allied to H. celehensis, Anth the upper surface not 



striped and the throat black. 



Hypotaenidia striata {Linn.). 



Rallus striata Linn., S. N. ed. 12 (1766) I, p. 262. 



Hab. Philippine Islands. 



Hypotaenidia gularis (Horsf.). 



Rallus guIarisBiOYsl, Tr. Linn. Soc, XIII, 1822, p. 196. 



Hab. Java. 



Hypotaenidia superciliaris (Eyton). 



Rallm .superciliaris Eyton, Ann. & Mag. N. H., XVI, 1845, p. 



230. 



Rallina telmatophila Hume, Stray Feathers, VII, p. 142. 



Hab. Malacca. 



This will probably prove synonymous with the preceding. 



Hypotaenidia iouyi (Stejn.). 



Rallus Jomji Stejn., Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. 9, 1886, p. 263. 



Hab. China (probably India, also). 



Hypotaenidia obscuriora Hume. 



Hi/potaeuidia obscuriora Hume, Stray Feathers, II, p. 302 (Jan. 



1874). 



Hypotaenidia ferrea Walden, Ibis, 1874, p. 147 (April 1874). 



Hab. Andaman Isl. 



Hypotaenidia abnormis Hume. 



Hypotaenidia abnormis Hume, Stray Feathers, 1875, p. 389. 



Hab. Southern Andamans. 



Hypotaenidia philippensis (Linn). * 



Rallus philippensis Linu, S. N. ed, 12, I, p. 263. 



Rallus pectoralis Gould, Bii'ds of Austral,, Vol. VI, PL 76 (nee 

 Cuvier). 



Rallus etorques Temm., fide Schlegel Mus. Pays Bas, V., p. 23. 



Rallu.t hypotuenidia "Bonap. ," fide Verr. & DesMur., Rev. 

 & Mag. Zool., 1860, p. 537. 



RaUusfosteriYl2Lvt\., Wiegm. Arch. f. Naturg. , 1852, p. 136. 



Rallus hypoleucus Finsch & Hartl., Orn. Centralpol., p. 163. 



Rallus p'ictus Potts, Trans. N. Z. Inst., IV, p. 202 (1871). 



10 




138 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Ballus hiemis von Pelz., Ibis, 1873, p. 42. 



Rallus asslmilis Gray, App. DiefF. Travels, Vol. II, p. 197. 



Hab. Java to Australia and New Zealand. 



While it may be possible to separate this species into several races, 

 my material is insufficient to decide the question. As far as I can 

 see, however, such separation does not seem practicable. The 

 presence or absence of a buff breast band is not a constant character, 

 birds from the same locality showing great diversity in this respect. 

 The New Zealand bird has been separated by both Gray and Potts 

 but from such specimens as I have seen I fail to find any constant 

 differential characters. 



Hypotaenidia torquata (Linn). 



Rallus torquatm Linn., S. N. ed. 12, I, p. 262. 



"Rallm Uneatm "Cuv." Less. Tr. Ornith., 1831, p. 536. 



Hab. Philippines. 



Hypotaenidia oelebensis (Q. & G.). 



Rallus celehemls Q. & G., I'AstroL, t. 24, p. 2. 



Hab. Celebes. 



Hypotaenidia sulcirostris (Wall.). 



Rallus sulcirostris Wall., P. Z. S., 1862, p. 345. 



Hab. Sula Isl. 



See an important paper on this and allied species, Sclater, Ibis, 



1880, p. 312. 



Hypotaenidia saturata Salvad. 



Hiipotaenidia saturata Salvad., Mss., Sclater, Ibis, 1880, p. 310 



Hal). Salawatti and Papua. 



Hypotaenidia insignis (Scl.). 



Rallus insignis Scl., P. Z. S., 1880, p. 66. 



Hab. New Britain, Duke of York Isl. 



Hypotaenidia poeciloptera (Hartl.). 



Ralllna, poeciloptera Hartl., Ibis, 1866, p. 171. 



Hab. 'Fiji Isl. 



Hypotaenidia woodfordi (flrant). 



Rallina woodfordi Ogilvie Grant, Ann. & Mag. N. H., (6) IV. 

 1889, p. 320. 



Hab. Solomon Isl. 



The last two species I have never seen and am not sure whether 

 tliey should be referred to this genus or not. Rallus featherstonii is 

 described by Buller, Essay on Ornithology of New Zealand, published 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



iu Report of N. Z. Expos. 1865, but is entirely ignored by him in his 

 subsequent work on Birds of New Zealand. I have not access to the 

 first work, but judge the name to be a synomym perhaps of Hypo- 

 taenidia philippensis L. 



H. sulcirostris and the two following species I arrange here in ac- 

 cordance with Dr. Sclater's views as they are evidently members of 

 this group, though I have no specimens for examination. 



CABALUS Hutton. 

 Cabalns Hutton, Trans. N. Z. Inst., VI, p. 108 (typei?. modestiis 

 Hutton). 



Cabalus dieffenbaclii (Gray). 



Ballus dieffeiibachi Gray, App. DiefT. Travels, Vol. II, p. 197. 



Rallus modestiis Hutton, Ibis, 1872, p. 247. 



Hab. Chatham Isl. 



C. modestiis may be a distinct species as has been held by a num- 

 ber of ornithologists; the majority of those who have examined 

 specimens, however, seem to consider it merely the young of G. dief- 

 fenbaclii. 



Cabalus macquariensis (Hutton). 



Rallus macquariensis Hutton, Ibis, 1879, p. 454. 



Hab. Macquarie Isl. 



Cabalus sylvestris (Sclater). 



Ocijdromus sylvestris Scl. , P. Z. S., 1869, p. 472. 



Hab. Lord Howe Isl. 



Dr. Sharpe states that this species is really a Cabalus and has been 



wrongly referred to Ocydromus (Ibis, 1898, p. 262). 



ROUGETIUS Bonap. 

 1856. — Roiigetius Bonap., Compt. Rend., t. 43, p. 599 (type R. 

 abyssinlcus Rupp. = i?. rougetii Guer.) 

 The species generally referred to this genus fall into two groups, 

 one containing the type and the other comprising R. bernieri of 

 Madagascar and its close allies from the adjacent islands. In the 

 former the bill is much smaller and weaker, though its shape and 

 proportions are about the same. For the latter group Dr. Sharpe 

 has proposed the generic name Dryolimnas and it seems better to re- 

 cognize the two genera. 



Rouge tius rougetii (Guer). 



Ralbis roagetn Guer., Rev.Zool., 1843, p. 322. 



Rallus abyssiniciis RupY>. , Syst. Uebers. , 1845, No. 478, 1 46. 



Hab. Abyssinia. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



DRYOLIMNAS Sharpe. 

 1893. — DryoUmnas Sharpe, Ibis, 1893, p. 260 (type R. cuvieri 



Puch.). 

 Dryolimnas bernieri (Boiiap). 



Rougetius bernieri Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, 1856, p. 599 



(iiomen nudum). 

 ''Rougetius beruieri Bonap.," Hartl., J. f. 0., 1860, p. 171. 

 Hab. Madagascar. 



Dryolimnas cuvieri (Pucheran). 



Rail as gularis CuY.," Less. Tr. Ornith., p. 536 (nee Cuv.). 

 Rallus cuvieriVuch. , Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 279. 



Hab. Mauritius. 



Dryolimnas aldebranus (Clunther). 



Rallus gularis var aldebrana Gunther, Ann. & Mag. N. H. , ser. 5, 

 Vol. Ill, 1879, p. 164. 



Rougetius aldebranus Ridgvv., Proc, U. S. N. M., Vol. XVI, p. 

 598, 1893. 



Hab. Aldebra. 



Dryolimnas abbotti (Eidgw.)- 



Rougetius abbotti Ridgw., Auk, 1894, p. 74. 



Hab. Assumption Island. 



CANIRALLUS Bonap. 



1856. — Ca)i/ra^^(/s "Hartl.," Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 600 

 (type GalUtiula kilioides Puch.). 



To this genus have been referred two species which are certainly 

 not congeneric, i. e., G. hilioides Puch., and C. oculeus Temm. 

 Bonaparte gives them both in his list (Compt. Rend., 1856, p. 600) 

 and places octt^e us Temm. first; from the fact, however, tliat he placed 

 the genus in GalUnulinae I think he must have had the former 

 species in view, as its bill is strikingly like that of a Gallinule. I 

 therefore, would select Idlioides Puch. as the type. 



Although the shape of the bill of this bird recalls the Gallinules 

 (especially Amanropfera) it has no trace of a frontal shield, and the 

 toes are very short, as in Euryzona, so that I think its place is with 

 the Rallince, though certainly an aberrant form. 



Canirallus kilioides (Puch. ). 



Gallinula kilioides Vuch. , Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 279. 

 Corethrura griseofroiis Gray, Gen. Bds., Ill, 1846, p. 595. 



Hab. Madagascar. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



EURYZONA Bonap. 



1846. — RalUua Gray, Geu. Birds, III, p. 595 (type R. zey- 



laiilcus Gm. (uec Rallina Reich.). 

 1856. — Euryzona Bonap., Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 599 (type R. 



fasciata Raffl.) 



The question of the proper name for this genus has already 

 been thoroughly discussed. Besides the typical species allied to E. 

 fasciata, there is another which seems more nearly allied to this genus 

 than any other. This is the Canirallas ocideus of Temminck, which 

 is certainly not congeneric with CaniraUus kilioides (type of genus). 

 This species has the short toes of Euryzona, but has the bill some- 

 what longer and higher at the base. The coloration is almost exactly 

 the same style as that of a typical Euryzona. Although it may be 

 necessary to propose a new genus for this species, I would prefer for 

 the present to place it here. 



Euryzona fasciata (Eaffl.). 



Rallina fasciata Raffl., Trans. Linn. Soc, (1822) XIII, p. 328, 

 (Sumatra). 



Gallinula euryzona Temm. , PL Col. 417, 1838 (Java). 



Hab. India. 



Euryzona euryzonoides (Lafr.). 



Gallinula euryzo)ioides Ija,£r., Rev. Zool. , 1845, p. 368. 



Rallus zeylanicus " Gm." Auct. , nee Gmelin (see Tweedale P. Z. 



S. 1877, p. 767). 



Hab. Ceylon, Burmah, etc. 



Euryzona amauroptera (Blyth). 



Rallus captnsis Gm., S. N., (1788) I, p. 716, pt. (nee Linn.) 

 Porzana ceylonicus 'Blyih (1849), Cat. Bds. Mus. Asiat. Soc, 



p. 285 (nee R. zeylanica Gen.) 



Porzana amauroptera Blyth, fide Jerdon, Bds. India, III, p. 725 



(1864). 



Hab. Northern India. 



The date and place of Blyth's description I am unable to find ; 



probably it was merely a manuscript name that Jerdon quotes. 



Euryzona sepiaria Stejn. 



Euryzona sepiaria Ste]n., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1887, p. 395, 



Hab. Liu Kin Islands. 



Euryzona tricolor (Gray). 



Rallus tricolor Gray, P. Z. S., 1858, p. 188. 



Hab. New Guinea. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Euryzona minahasa (Wall.). 



Rallina minahasa Wall., P. Z. S., 18G2, p. 846. 



Hab. Sula and N. Celebes. 



Euryzona rufigenis (Wall.). 



Porza7ia rufigenls Wall, P. Z. S., 1865, p. 480. 



Hab. Borneo. 



Euryzona zonaventris Cab.- 



Rallina {E.) zonaventris Cab., J. f. O., 1881, p. 425. 



Hab. Malacca. 



Euryzona oculea (Temm. ). 

 GalUnula oculea Temm. 



Canirallus oculeus Bonnp., Compt. Rend., XLHI, p. 599. 

 Rallina oculea Schleg. , Mus. Pays Bas, V, p. 20. 

 Hab. W. Africa, (Liberia, &c. ). 



CASTANOLIMNAS Sharpe. 



1893. — Castanolimnas Sharps, Ibis, 1893, p. 260 (type Rallina can- 

 ningi Tytler). 

 As I have never seen the species upon which this genus is founded 

 I follow Dr. Sharpe in recognizing it as distinct from Euryzona. 



Castanolimnas canning! (Tytler). 



Rallina cannituji Tytler, Ibis., 1863, p. 119. 



Hab. Andaman Isl. 



CREX Bechst. 



1802.— Crerc Bechst., Oru. Taschb. DeutschL, p. 336 (type R. 



crex L.). 

 ISIQ. — Ortygometra Leach, Syst. Cat. M. & B. Brit. Mus., p. 34 



(type R. crex L. ). 



Crex crex (Linn. ). 



Rallus c/'e:cLinn., S. N. ed. 12, I (1758), p. 153. 



Crex prateu sis Bechst., Ornithol. Taschenb. , II, p. 337 (1803). 



Fulica naeviaGm., S. N. I (1788), p. 709. 



Hab. Europe and Northern Asia. 



PORZANA Vieill. 



1816. — Porzana Vieill., Analyse, p. 61 (type R. porzana Liun.). 

 lS16.—Zai)ornia Leach, Syst. Cat. M. & B. Brit. Mus., p. 34 



(type Z. ini)iuta Leach). 

 1829. — Phalaridion Kaup, Entw. Eur. Thierw, p. 173 (type (rw^- 



linula j:)usilhi and pyginnea.). 

 IMb.—Rallites Puch. Rev. Zool., 1845, p. 277 (type R. pusillus). 

 1856. — Coturnicops Bonap. Compt. Rend., XLIII, p. 599 (type 



Fulica noveboracensis Gm.). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



In this genus I have placed the majority of the smaller Rails, 

 which may be arranged in several subgenera: (1) Ponana with one 

 species (P. porzana). (2) Zapornia with five distinct species (P. 

 novce-hollandi(£, quadristrigata, tabuensis, pusilla and palustris^ and 

 several others which are perhaps only to be regarded as subspecies. 

 Additional species or subspecies may have to be recognized in this 

 group when a large amount of material is examined, but in that case 

 some of the names here included in the synonymy ^nll have to be 

 revived. (3) Creeopsis, a group of African species, including P. 

 marginalis Peters and some allied forms. (4) Cotuniicops, includ- 

 ing two species P. exquisita and P. ayresi. The type of this 

 subgenus is P. novehoracensis Gm. , an American species. 



The other species of Porzana I have not been able to examine and 

 am uncertain as to their arrangement. P. akool, modesfa and bicolor 

 seem from the descriptions to be very different birds from the other 

 Porzanae and may have to be placed in a distinct genus. P. moluc- 

 cana of Wallace may not be a Porzana at all, as the description is 

 too meagre to show what its relationship really is. P. rufigenis des- 

 cribed at the same time seems to be a Euryzona. 



a. PORZANA. 

 Porzana porzana (Linn.). 



Pallus jiorzana Linn., S. N. ed 12, I, p. 262 ; 1766. 



Orfygometra maruetta Leach, Gould, Bds. of Europe. 

 Hab. Europe. 



Porzana novae-hollandiae Cuv. 



Porzana novce-hollandice Cuv. 



Porzana fluminea Gould, P. Z. S., 1842, p. 139. 



Hab. Australia and Tasmania. 



b. ZAPORNIA. 

 Porzana quadristrigata (Horsf. ) 



Rallus quadristrigata Horsf, Linn. Trans., XIII, p. 196 (Java), 



Ball us tanensis Forat. Descr. Anim., 1844, p. 275 (Tanna). 



Pall us leucophi-ys Gou\d, P. Z. S., 1847, p. 33 (Australia). 



GaUinida leucosoma Sw., Anim. in Menag., p. 348 (India). 



Zaporinasandwichensis^eich., Icon. Col., t. 204, f. 1184-85 (nee 

 Rallus sandwichensis Gm. ). 



" Gallimda mystacina Mus. Paris," Inedit. fide Schlegel. 



" Gallinula supercUiosa Temm.," Inedit. fide Schlegel. 



Hab. Java to Australia, etc, 



Rallus cinereus Vieill. which is often quoted for this bird, applies 

 to a South American species. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Porzana tabuensis Gm. 



RaUHsfabaemis Gm., S. N. 1(1788), p. 717, (Toago Taboo, 



Otaheite). 



Zaporina vmbrina Cass., Proc. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, p. 254 



(Fiji). 



^^ Zaporina mnbrata" Hartl., Wiegm. Arch, fiir Naturg., 1858, 

 II, p. 29=misprint of Cassin's name. 



Crex plumbea Gray , Griff. Anim. King, III, p. 410, (1829) (no 

 habitat). 



Porzana tahitiensis ((tui.) 



BaUustahitiensls Gm., S. N., I (1788), p. 717. 



GaUimila immaculata Sw. , Anim. in Menag., 1838, p. 337 (Tas- 

 mania). 



Hab. Australia and Polynesia. 



Whether there is more than one species of these little uuicolored Rails 

 of the South Pacific I am unable to say ; whether the name tabuensis 

 of Gmelin will stand is also doubtful. If the two prove synonymous, 

 tabuensis has priority. 



Porzana spilonota (Gould). 



Zaporina spilonota Gould, Voy. Beagle, pt. Ill, pt. 132. 



Hab. Galapagos. 



Porzana vitiensis Haiti. 



Porzaiia vitien.^is Uavtl , J. f 0. (1854), p. 169. 



Hab. Fiji Isls. 



A name based upon Peale's brief description of a Fiji Rail 

 which he identifies as " P. spilonota Gould" (U. S. Expl. Exped. , 

 Wilkes, p. 224). 



Porzana pusillus (Pallas). 



Iiall US pu!< ill US Puilas, Reise. Russ. Reise. (1776), III, app. p. 

 700. 



Eallus pusillus Gm., I, p. 719 (1788). 



Hab. India, China and Japan. 



Porzana intermedia (Hermann). 



Iiallus intermedius Hermann, Observ. on Zool., I, p. 198 (1804). 



Crexpygmaea Naum., Voy., t. 239 (18 — ). 



Ball us baiUoni VieilL, Nov. Diet. d'Hist. Nat., XXVIII, p. 548 

 (1819). 



Gallinula stellaris Temm. , Man. d'Orn. , 2 ed. , II, p. 693 

 (1820). 



Hab. Europe and Africa. 



As to the separation of this species from the preceding, see Ogilvie 



Grant, Ann. &Mag. N. H., 1890, Vol. V, p. 80. Dr. Stejueger pro- 




1894.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



poses the adoptiou of the name m^en/tedi'a for this bird (Proc. U. S. N. 

 M., 1886, p. 397) as the status of Crex pygmaea seems somewhat 

 doubtful, aud this name antedates B. ballloni Vieill. by fifteen 

 years. 



Porzana parva (Scop.). 



Kallas parvit.-i Scop., Ann. Hist. Nat., p. 108 (1769). 



Eallus mlnata Pall., Zoogr. Ross. Asiat. , II, p. 155, 1826 (nee R. 

 inhmta Gmelin 1788, which is a South American species). 



Rallus Foljabamei Mont. 



Rallus Feyrousil Vieill. 



Hab. Europe and Western Asia. 



Porzana palustris Gould. 



Forzana 2ialadrls GonM, P. Z. S. , 1842, p. 189. 



Hab. Tasmania. 



Porzana affinis Gray. 



Oiiygometm affini'i Gnxy, Voy. Ereb. & Terr. , p. 14(1844). 



Railus pundatas Ellm., Zool.*, 1861, p. 7470. 

 Hab. New Zealand. 



c. CRECOPSIS Sharpe. 



Porzana egregia Peters. 



OyfiiqoinetraegregiaFeters, Monaisher. K. P. Ak. Wisseusch. Ber- 

 lin, 1854, p. 134. 



Hab. Tette. 



Porzana angolensis Hartl. 



Ortijgometra angoleadii Hartl., Ibis, 1862, p. 340 (Angola). 



Ortygometra fasciata Hough, J. f O., 1863, p. 27 (White 

 Nile)." 



This species is said to be identical with the preceding by Heuglin, 

 Ornith. N. Afr. II, p. 1240. 



Porzana marginalis Hartl. 



Forzana marginalis Hartl., Syst. Oru. West Afr., p. 241. 



Hab. Gaboon. 



Porzana waters! Bartl. r Si 



Zaporinaimterd'QixriX., P. Z. S. , 1879, p. 772, pi. LXI. ^*<a^^,. 



Hab. Madagascar. 



d. COTURNICOPS. 

 Porzana exquisita Swinh. 



Forzana exquisita Swinh., Ann. & Mag. N. H., (4) XII, p. 376, 



1873. 



Forzana and alaf a Tacz. , J. f. O. , 1874, p. 333. 



Hab. N. China (Cheefoo). 

 11 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Dr. Stejneger seems to have overlooked the description of this 

 species in Ann. and Mag. N. H., 1873 (see Proc. U. S. N. M., 1886, 

 p. 401) and Mr. Swinhoe himself says that he forgot that he had 

 published it and republished the species in Ibis, 1875, p. 135, fortun- 

 ately using the same name. 



Porzana ay re si (Gurney). 



Coturnicops ayresi Gurney, Ibis, 1877, p. 352, PI. VII. 



Hab. Transvaal Republic. 



OTHER SPECIES. 

 Porzana akool (Sykes). 



llaUn.-< akool Sykes, P. Z. S., 1832, p. 164. 



Hab. India. 



Porzana mode sta (Sw. ) 



Gallimtla modesta Sw. , Anim. in Menag. , p. 348. 



Hab. India. 



Porzana bicolor Walden. 



Porzana bicolor Walden, Ann. & Mag. N. H., (4) IX, p. 47 

 (1871). 



Porzana elwesi Hume, Stray Feathers, 1875, p. 283. 



Hab. Himalayas. 



Porzana moluccana Wall. 



Porzana moluccana Wall, P. Z. S. , 1865, p. 480. 



Hab. Amboyna. 



LIMNOBAENUS Sund. 



1872. — Limnohaenus Sund., Meth. Nat. Av. , p. 130 (type 

 Gallmula rnbigmosa Temm. ) 



Limnobaenus fuscus (Linn. )• 



Pallas fascas Linn., S. N., ed. 12, I, p. 262 (1766). 

 " Pallm flammiceps Hodgs " (?) 



Hab. Philippines. 



Limnobaenus erythrothorax (J. &S. ) 



GalUnula erythrofhorax J. & S., Faun. Jap., Aves, p. 121, })1. 



LXXVIII. 



Hab. China and Japan. 



Limnobaenus paykulli (Ljungli). 



Rallmpayknm Ljungh, Sv. Vet. Akad. Hand!., 1813, p. 258. 



Porzana laandarina Swiuh., Ann. & Mag. N. H. , 4 series, V, p. 

 173. 



Hab. China, Malacca, Batavia. 




1894]. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Limnobaenus phaeopygus (Steju.) 



J*orzaiia phaeopi/ga Stejn., Proc. U. S. N. M., 1887, p. 394. 



Hab. Japan. 



Limnobaenus rubiginosus (Temm). 



Galluiula rublgliiosa Temm., PI. Col. LV (1825), p. 357. 



Hab. Java and Southern India. 



PENNULA Dole. 



1879. — Pennida Dole, Hawaiian Annual, p. 54 (type P. nilllel 

 Dole). 



Pennula ecaudata (King). 



liallus emadatiis King, Cook's Third Voyage, Vol. Ill, p. 119. 

 Rallus obscirrus Gm., S. N. I (1788), p. 718. 

 Pennida millei Dole, Haw. Ann., 1879, p. 54. 

 Hab. Hawaiian Isl. 



Pennula sandwichensis (Gm.). 



llidlus saiiduuchciisis Gm., S. N. I (1788), p. 717 



Hab. Hawaiian Isl. 



POEZANULA Frohawk. 



1891. — Porzamda Frohawk, Ann. & Mag. N. H., p. 247 (type 

 P. palmer t). 



Porzanula palmeri (Froh.). 



Porzamda palmer i (Froh.), Ann. & Mag. N. H., 1891, p. 247. 

 Hab. Laysan Isl. 



LIMNOCORAX Peters. 

 1854. — i/wmocora.r Petei'S, Monatsber. K. P. Ak. Wissensch., Berlin, 

 p. 134 (type L. capenm). 



Although Peters recognizes three species of this genus it does not 

 seem possible from such material as I have examined to admit more 

 than one. A larger series of specimens may, however, justify his 

 conclusions. 



Limnocorax niger (Gm.). 



EaUus nIger Gm., S. N. I (1788), p. 717. 



Galliinda fiavlrostris Sw., Bds. of W. Afr., I, p. 



Limnocorax capensis Peters, Monatsber. K. P. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, 

 1854, p. 188. 



L. senegalensls Peters, Monatsber. K. P. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, 1854, p. 

 188. 



L. 7nosmmbic'Us Peters, Monatsber. K. P. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, 1854, 

 p. 188. 



Rallus aetJiiops Forster, (fide Peters). 



Hab. S. and W. Africa. 




148 PROCEEDIKOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



SAROTHRUEA Heine. 



1890. — Sarothrara Heine, Nomeucl. Mus. Heiu., p. 319. 

 1853. — Corethrura Reiclib. , (nee Hope, 1844). 

 IS'Sl.—Alecthella Sw., (nee Less. 1826). 



As has already been stated, p. 133, foot note, the name Saro- 



thrura of Heine seems to be the only one applicable to this genus. 



Sarothrura dimidiata (Temm.). 



Gain II ula diinidiata "Temm.," Less., Traite. d'Ornith. , I, p. 

 537 (1831). 



Cr ex rujieoll is Gra,y, Zool. Misc., p. 13 (1831). 



Hab. S. Africa. 



Sarothrura jardinii (Smith). 



Crex jardinii Smith, Proc. S. Afr. Inst., Nov., 1828. 

 ? Aleethelia lineata Sw. , Anim. in Menag. , p. 338. 



Hab. S. Africa. 



Sarothrura pulchra (Gray). 



Crex pulchra Gray, Griff. An. Kingd. , III, p. 410. 

 Gallinula elegans Smith, Zool. S. Afr., Aves, PI. 22. 



Hab. S. Africa. 



Sarothrura insularis (Sharpc). 



Corethrura iiisidaris Sharpe, P. Z. S. , 1870, p. 400. 



Hab. Madagascar. 



Sarothrura cinnamomea (Less.). 



Ralls cinnamonieus Ijess. , Rev. Zool., 1840, p. 99. 



Hab'. S. Africa. 



Sarothrura bonapartei Hartl. 



Corethrura Bonapartei Hartl. , Orn. West Afr. , p. 242. 



Hab. Gaboon, W. Africa. 



Of the last two species I have never seen any specimens and they 

 may prove to l^e synonyms. The names "cercoleps Tern." and 

 "caudatus Cuv. " given in Gray's Hand List under this section, I have 

 been unable to find, but as their habitat is given as Philippines they 

 probably do not belong in the genus Sarothrura. 



EALLICULA. 



1S7 l.—lMlicida Schl., Ned. Tijdsch. Dierk., IV, p. 55 (type R. 

 rubra Schl. ). 



Rallicula rubra Schl. ,-,anis 



Rallieida rubra Schl, Ned. iijdseh. Dierk., IV, p. 55 (1871). 



Hab. New Guinea. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Rallicula forbesi Sharpe. 



BaUinila forbesi Sharpe, Birds of New Guinea, PL XXIII. 



Hab. New Guinea. 



Rallicula leucospila (Salvad. ). 



Corethruropds leucospila Salvad., Ann. Mus. Genov., VII, p. 



975 (1875). 



Hab. New Guinea. 



Dr. Sharpe regards the genus Corethruropsis as synonymous with 

 Rallicula and I have followed his views. I have never had an op- 

 portunity of examining a specimen. 



APHANOLIMNAS Sharpe. 



1S92. —Kitilizia Hartl., Abh. Nat. Ver. Bremen, XII, Heft 8, p. 



391 (type B. mouasa Kittl.) nee Hartert 1891. 

 1892. — Aphanolimnas Sharpe, Bull. B. 0. C, No. 4, p. XX, same 



type. 



Aphanolimnas monasa (Kittl.). 



Rallus monasa lsAii\. , Denkwurdigkeiten Reise russ. Amerika, 

 Micronesien u. Kamtschatka, p. 30 (1858). 



Hab. Ualan Isl. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



May 1. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled "The Differential Action in Animal Locomotion 

 of Certain Muscles passing more than one Joint," by Thomas Eakins, 

 was presented for publication. 



May 8. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



May 15. 



The President. General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present. 



The death of Jos. Szabo of Buda-Pest, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publica- 

 tion : — 



Contributions to the Mammalogy of Florida. By Samuel N. 

 Rhoads. 



Contributions to the Life- Histories of Plants, No. XL By 

 Thomas Meehan, 



May 22. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



May 29. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the chair. 



Thirty persons present. 



The following were elected meml)ers: — 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



Williiim J. Fox, Andrew J. Downs, M. D., George E. Kirk- 

 patrick, Henry P. Dixon and Theodore Prosser. 



The following papers were ordered to be printed: — 




152 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MAMMALOGY OF FLORIDA. 

 BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



During the past two years the writer has received from Mr. W. S. 

 Dickinson, of Tarpon Springs, Hillsborough Co., Florida, a con- 

 siderable series of the mammals inhabiting that vicinity. A recent 

 study of these has developed facts of sufficient interest to warrant 

 publication. 



Tarpon Springs lies within a few miles of the Gulf of Mexico, near 

 the Anclote River, in a region typical of a large part of the southern 

 half of the State. The country is level, very sandy, well shaded 

 with lakes and "hammocks" and, owing to its proximity to the 

 Gulf, combines inland and maritime zoological features within a com- 

 paritively small compass. The region in question lies just to the north 

 of Tampa Bay, which may be said to define the northern extension 

 of the typically Floridian fauna along the Gulf Coast. The follow- 

 ing notes would seem to confirm the intermediate faunal position of 

 Tarpon Springs between a Louisianian and Floridian environment. 

 There is, however, an indication of geographic variation from forms 

 typical of northern and eastern parts of the State, which shows a 

 closer alliance among the mammals of Tarpon Springs with those of the 

 more southern districts. 



The only important faunal paper specially relating to the mam- 

 malogy of Florida is that of Dr. J. A. Allen in the Bulletin of the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology, Vol. II, p. 168-185. 



I follow Dr. Allen's sequence of orders, genera and species. 



1. Putorius peninsulae Ehoads, sp. nov. Type, No. 1515, ad. 9 , rol. of 

 S. N. Ehoads; " Hiidsou's," Pasco Co., Florida; col. by W. S. Dickinson, 

 Feb. 1894. 



Description. — Size greater than average P. erminea from the Mid- 

 dle States ; relative breadth of coloration of lower and upper parts 

 as in P. frenatiis ; color pattern of feet, legs and face nearest P. xan- 

 thogenysi; pilosity of foot- pads and ears nearest to P. frenatiis; colors 

 and length of tail and whiskers as in P. erminea ; pelage scant, 

 coarse and shorter than in any weasel examined ; skull nearest P. 

 erminea, but differing more markedly from either than P. erminea 

 from P. xmdhogenys. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



Above, iucludiug tail, top of head, upper arm and liind thighs to 

 middle of feet, light liver-brown of nearly the same shade as seen in 

 fall specimens of ermhiea from Pennsylvania. Below, including in- 

 side of hind legs, distal half of hind feet, posterior two-thirds of 

 forelegs, and all of forefeet, pale yellowish white. Muzzle, below 

 margins of upper lips, an irregular patch above, but not reaching 

 nose, an irregular streak half-way between nose and eyes and reach- 

 ing behind anterior corner of eye, an ascending streak broadly 

 rising on cheek and narrowing forward to just over eyes and not con- 

 necting with nose patch, also a short median streak between ears, pure 

 white. A sparse patch of long bristling white hairs guards the open- 

 ing of the ear. Two-thirds of the tail colored like the back, distal 

 third, black. Tail two-fifths of length of body, very slender, sparsely 

 haired, the terminal pencil short. 



/S/;?f^/. — (Post-palatal and post- frontal regions missing) intermediate 

 in general configuration between frenattis and xanthogenys ; in size 

 very near the latter. Mandibles very massive and short ; dentition 

 also massive and crowded. The sudden post-orbital expansion of an- 

 terior portion of brain- case indicates that part to be relatively larger 

 and more inflated than in any other of our weasels, resembling most in 

 this cliaracter, erminea. Inner lobe of last upper molar slightly nar- 

 rower transversely than outer lobe, the tooth standing at an oblique 

 angle to the longitudinal diameter of the skull ; in all the allied forms 

 these proportions are reversed and the last molar is at right angles to 

 this diameter. In xmdhogemp the inner lobe is often twice the dia- 

 meter of the outer lobe. In 2)erdns-ul(e the longest diameter of the 

 first upper molar is at an angle of 45 with that of the second molar 

 and at rigid angle>< with that ot the premolar ; in the other species 

 the first and second molar diameters are generally in the same line, 

 never departing from it more than 15° and this diameter of the pre- 

 molar is never deflected from that of first molar more than 20° in 

 frenatns and erminea, nor more than 45° in xanthogenys. 



While the skull of penin.ndce is one-third smaller than that of fre- 

 natus of same age, the upper first and second molars are as large as 

 those of largest frenatus and absolutely stouter. Upper and lower 

 canines short and stout, the lower so massive basally as to crowd the 

 incisors into a double row, the second incisor of each mandible being 

 forced back of the other four, which form a solid anterior row 

 unbroken by the usual crowding forward of the second incisor be- 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



tween the first and third, seen in all other species of the Muselklcz. 

 There is no symphysis between lower canines and first premolars, the 

 latter over-lying the former mpoilnxnke and the second lower molar 

 is relatively as large as in the upper series. Viewed laterally, the 

 mandibles of peninsvlce describe a nearly perfect half ring due to the 

 great outer convexity of the ramus, its rounded, compressed angle 

 and abrupt upward anterior curve. The ramus is also very thick 

 (laterally) for its width (perpendicularly), the former dimension at 

 the base of second molar is greater than that of largest /re»«i(/-s while 

 the latter dimension is one-third less. In pe)i!nsul(e the width (hori- 

 zontal) of the articular process of mandible is relatively much less 

 than we find it in Jrenatm and xanihogenyx, in this approaching er- 

 minea, but it is, as in other parts, relatively stouter than in any of 

 them. 



Measurements^ (from stuffed skin) :— Total length, 375 ; tail verte- 

 brae (vertebrte remaining in skin), 100; hind foot, 40; pencil, 16. 



Skull — Posterior base of incisors to post-palatal notch, 18.7; length 

 of nasals, 9; interorbital constriction, 10.7; articular process of man- 

 dible to anterior base of incisor, 26 ; height of coronoid process from 

 angle, 12. 



My examination of the skulls of the above mentioned species 

 makes it apparent, not only that the Florida animal is distinct from 

 its allies in the United States, but that xanthogenys should be classed 

 as a good species, separable from frenatus not only in external but 

 in cranial characters. The relationships between frenatus and bra- 

 siliensi>;, of which some authors make it a sub-species, I am unable 

 to discuss, from lack of material. Xanthogevys, in addition to its 

 constant and well known color differences, may be cranially separated 

 i'rom frenatus of same age by the decidedly and constantly smaller 

 size, the relative shallowness and flatness, the greater relative width 

 to length and the sudden constriction of the skull behind the supra- 

 orbital processes. The pterygoid fossa is also relatively shorter and 

 both absolutely and relatively wider than in frenatus. The length of 

 largest freiiatus skulls is 54, while that of the largest xanthogenys 

 is 46. 



A stufl^ed specimen of this new weasel was sent by JNIr. Dickinson in 

 February, 1894. So far as can be determined, this is the first instance 



1 All measurements iu millimeters. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



on record of such an animal from Florida. Fortunately, the anterior 

 half of the i^kull, including the perfect jaws, were within and at- 

 tached to the skin. These were extracted and confirmed my suspic- 

 ions, excited by the peculiar external characters, that the animal was 

 a nondescript. As will be seen in the diagnosis, it combines 

 the characteristic color- pattern of the P. brasiliensis group 

 with the colors and relative measurements of the erminea group. 

 This weasel was captured in the woods by a cat, in Pasco County, 

 Florida, at " Hudson's," 14 miles north of Tarpon Springs. 



2. Lutra hudsonica (Lacepede). American Otter. 



The otter is abundant. Quite a number of their skins and furs 

 have been sent. The latter, large and prime, bring little over five 

 dollars in the Philadelphia market, owing to the scant pelage. The 

 average color is even darker and more glossy than in the highly 

 prized pelts from the northwestern States. 



3. Procyou lotor (Linn.). Raccoon. 



A large series of furs, skins and skulls of this abundant animal 

 have passed, through my hands. They show the Florida coon to 

 be when young, almost exactly the same color as average adults 

 from the Middle States. As they increase in age a strong suffusion 

 of orange brown becomes pronounced on the back, rump and tail. 



In Dr. Allen's paper {sup. cit, p. 170) P. hernandezii is made 

 a synonym of lotor. An exceptionally large series of skulls from 

 Florida, the JVIiddle States and the Northwest shows the followng 

 specific differences, based on six typical adult specimens of each 

 series. 



In hernandezii there is no ridged occipital crest, generally present 

 in older examples of lotor ; the mandibles are heavier and stouter, 

 more widely separated to accommodate the great width of brain case, 

 and broader between the canines; in length they are the same as in 

 lotor. The angle is more produced, narrow and angular in hernandezii, 

 the upper molar series very wide for their length and decidedly 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



triangular, in lotor the molars are quite symmetrically rounded. 

 The premolars in the former are large, strongly rooted and always 

 present, in Joior they are relatively smaller and the first premolar 

 often crowded out. Auditory meatus of hernandezii produced like 

 the neck of a flask, making transverse diameter of bullte much greater 

 than the longitudinal, in lotor these diameters are equal. In lotor the 

 median attenuation of the zygomatic arch is decided, narrow and semi- 

 cylindrical ; in hernandezii it is slight, the malar being broad and 

 strap- like. A strong and constant difference between Pacific and At- 

 lantic Coast specimens is the much greater relative size of the brain 

 and bi'ain-case in the former, especially in the anterior breadth and 

 greater depth. This feature causes a specific difference in the upper 

 cranial profile; in hernandezii there is a gentle continuous rise from 

 nasals to the fronto- parietal suture or even farther back, in lotor this 

 ascent is more abrupt to the interorbital region, which is tumid, fol 

 lowed by a depression and rising again, giving the skull an undulat- 

 ing profile. 



The characters given by Prof Cope (Amer. Nat., Feb., 1889, pp. 

 141-142), as distinguishing lotor from hernandezii I do not find of as 

 constant value as those above given, except those relating to the latter 

 species near the bottom of page 142, notably the greater prominence 

 of the post-orbital processes of the malar and frontal bones. 



4. ? Atalapha borealis - pfeifFeri (Gundlach). Florida Red Bat. 



All the specimens of this bat sent from Tarpon Springs, as well as 

 those whif'h I have examined from other parts of the State, are uni- 

 formly of the " deep chei'ry red" spoken of by Dr. J. A. Allen 

 (ji'up. eit, p. 173). Dr. Harrison Allen (Mon. Bats. N. Amer., 

 1893, p. 146) notices the same peculiarity and refers them question- 

 ably to A. pfeifferi Gundlach, (Monatsb. K. B. Akad., Berlin., 

 1861, p. 152). ' 



Dr. Guudlach's description, which is full, seems to answer for this 

 form very well, except that he states the roots of the hairs are gray, 

 whereas in Florida specimens the roots are black. The color of 

 pfeifferi is said to be cinnamon red in the male and cinnamon brown 

 in the female. I have been unable to secure specimens of the Cuban 

 form for comparison, so refer the Floridian variety to it for the pres- 



2 Vespertilio borealis Miiller, Natursyst., Snppl., 1776, p. 20, antedates V. nove- 

 boraceiisis Erxl., Syst. Reg. Anim., 1777, p. l.'j.'j. 




1894.] NATUBAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



eut. The rauge of color variability of the Red Bat of the Carolin- 

 ian fauua never approaclies the character of that seen in all my speci- 

 mens from Tarpon Springs. They fully deserve sub-specilic recog- 

 nition, not only on account ot their decided differences, but because 

 of their constancy. 



5. Adelonycteris fuscus* (Beauv.) H. Alien. Hruwu Bat. 

 Numerous specimens received. 



6. Vesperugo carolinensis* (Geoff.). Georgia (Carolina) Bat. 



Two specimens. 



7. Nycticejus humeralis® Eaf. Rafinesque's Bat. 

 Three (?) specimens. 



8. Vespertilio gryphus" F. Cuv. Little Brown Bat. 

 Several specimens. 



9. Nyctinomus brasiliensis Is. Geoff. Brazilian Bat. 

 Very abundant. 



10. Scalops parvus Ehoads, sp. nov. Type No. 1468, ad. 9 ; col. S. N. Rhoads, 

 Tarpon Springs, Fla., Dec. 24, 1893, col. 1)y W. S. Dickinson. 



Description. — Size two- thirds that of Scalops aquaticus ; pelage 

 much coarser, having the appearance of spun glass ; the terminal 

 fourth of hairs silvery brown, basal three- fourths plumbeous; chest, 

 wrists, muzzle and upper head orange brown, darkening posteriorly, 

 golden anteriorly. Feet and tail coarsely haired, not downy as in 

 aquaticus. Palms wider than long, the contour of nails evenly 

 rounded both individually and collectively, not triangular as in aqua- 

 ticns. Naked snout unusually long and slender, not divided at its 

 inferior base by the " hare-lip " incision seen in aquaticus. 



Skull. — On superficial examination, similar to aquaticus. Relative 

 depth greater. Orbits relatively larger. Foramen magnum, viewed 

 posteriorly, ovate, regular, lacking tricrenate anterior outline always 

 present in adult aquaticus. In parvus there is a post-palatal spur not 

 present in any specimens of aquaticus I have seen. The cranium 

 viewed laterally shows an evenly ascending and more highly arched 

 profile descending behind much more abruptly than in aquaticus, in 



*For synonymy of these bats, sec Dr. H. Allen's Bats N. Amer., 1893. 




158 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



which the profile is interrupted by iuterorbital and parietal swellings. 

 In aquaticiis the last three molars average as wide as long, in parvuti 

 much wider than long, owing to the greater relative intrusion of their 

 inner anterior cusps. In aquatic as the first premolar, owing to sudden 

 constriction of the rostrum at that point, is thrown within the line con- 

 necting the canine and second premolar; in irarvifs these three teeth are 

 in regular file. Mandibular dentition in parvus relatively wider for 

 length throughout, and the outline of teeth more angular than in uqaa- 

 ticus; the hinder section of last molar in parvus is less than half the 

 width of anterior section; in aqaaticm the sections of this tooth are of 

 equal width and its greatest length exceeds considerably its greatest 

 width, while in parvus the transverse diameter equals the longitudinal. 

 In the latter the mandibular ramus, as in the case of Patorius penin- 

 sulct, while much shorter, is absolutely heavier and wider. 



There is a strong projecting shoulder at the anterior base of coronoid 

 process in parvus not seen in aquaticus, and the accessory posterior spur 

 just below tip of coronoid process in the latter is not present in the 

 former. The measurements are as follows : — 



One specimen of this genus has been received from Mr. Dickinson. 

 It is an adult, with teeth well worn, showing well marked specific 

 characters to distinguish it from *S'. aquaticus and its closely allied 

 forms, argentatus and australis.^ 



11. Sciurus niger Linn. Soutlicrn Fox Squirrel. 



All of the thirteen specimens received are remarkably uniform in 

 color for so variable a species, being of the light gray type, with 

 black crown, white ears and nose patch and tawny underparts. One 

 short tailed specimen is blacker on feet and legs, the belly rusty. 



^Scalops aquaticus auslralis Chapman, Bull. Amer. Mus. N. H., 1893 

 Art. XXI. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL,ADEL,PHIA. 159 



12. Sciurus carolinensis Ginel. Gray Siiuiircl. 



Abundant and presenting but slight variability. No niclanistic 

 examples reported. 



13. Sciuropterus volucella (Pallas). Flying Squirrel. 



Five specimens of this species are of special interest as they ap- 

 pear to be the tirst to go on record from Florida. They present no 

 characters in either old or young which are not nearly duplicated by 

 specimens from the Middle States. 



14. Geomys tuza Ord. Florida Gopher. 



Thirty specimens of all ages do not present the plumbeous color 

 variations so strongly marked in G. bursarius (Shaw). They are not 

 as variable as a like series of Sltomy.'i americaniis, such differences as 

 appear being due to ordinary results of age and season. One very 

 large, old male is uniform bright rusty above and hoary fulvous be- 

 neath. The rest are darker, the rusty mainly confined to sides, with 

 a duskier dorsal stripe and hoary plumbeous belly. The naked yel- 

 lowish tail invariably has a mahogany- colored tip and averages half 

 the length of head and body. Some females, apparently only half 

 grown, were nursing young. 



15. Mus decumanus Pallas. Norway Eat. 



16. Mus alexandrinus Geoft". Eoof Eat. 



17. Mus musculus Linn. House Mouse. 



With exception of the Norway Rat these old-world species are 

 very abundant. 



18. Sitomys americanus gossypinus (Le Conte). Pine-woods Deer Mouse. 



A series of thirty Tarpon Springs specimens show no mentionable 

 differences from those of northern Florida. Two skins have a pre- 

 vailing dark sooty suffusion of the under parts which at first sight 

 would indicate a specific difference, but it is probably due to their 

 residence in a recently burnt clearing. In young specimens the gray 

 is more hoary above than in typical americanus and the underparts 

 are more plumbeous, lacking almost entirely the pure white of lower 

 head and neck seen in young americanus. 



19. Sitomys niveiventris subgriseus (?) Chapman. Pigmy Deer ]\[ouse. 

 *Bull. Am. Mus. N. Hist., II, 1889, 117 ; ibid, 1893, Art. XX 




160 PKOOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Specimens of a small white-footed mouse, which are at present re- 

 ferred provisionally to this race, were received from Tarpon Springs 

 a few days before the issue of Mr. Chapman's paper on subgrisens. 

 These were sent to Mr. Chapman for comparison and he pronounced 

 them intermediate between niveiventris and subgriseus. Additional 

 specimens, making in all seventeen, have since been received. A 

 comparison of these with Mr. Chapman'srather brief diagnosis shows 

 them to differ from niveiventris in their smaller size ; from .•subgriseus 

 in the uniform whiteness of the belly hairs to their roots, and from 

 both forms in their uni-colored and nearly naked tails, which strik- 

 ingly resemble those of Geoniys tuza. Owing to my inability to 

 secure a loan of the type series in the possession of the American 

 Museum, a critical comparison of these differences cannot now be 

 made. They appear, however, to represent at least a sub- specific 

 variation, and a study of the cranial measurements strongly supports 

 this view. 



Mr. Dickinson writes me that these mice "were taken in a culti- 

 vated field near the head of Anclote River, in Pasco County. They 

 make a burrow from two to three feet long and ten to eighteen inches 

 deep, at the bottom of which is found the nest. They also have a 

 second passage through which to escape from their enemies in case of 

 pursuit; the outlet of this is hidden, apparently lacking three-quar- 

 ters of an inch of penetrating the surface of the ground. When a 

 switch is inserted they push through this secret outlet and often escape. 

 In captivity they are cannibals." 



20. Oryzomys palustris natator Chapman. Florida Rice-field Mouse. 

 One specimen sent. A series of this form from the Gulf Coast 



would be of interest to compare with those of northern Florida and 

 Texas, but I have been unable to secure them. 



21. Sigmodon hispidus littoralis^ (?) Chapman. Florida Cotton Rat. 



Of the five specimens of Cotton Rat (three adults, two young) 

 sent from Tarpon Springs, two very old individuals are strikingly 

 different from typical hispidus and are evidently similar to the ' ' No. 

 1,460" from Pine Island, mentioned by Mr. Chapman in his 

 description of littoralis as being much grayer than the Gainesville 



SBull. Amer. Mus. N. Hist., II, June, 1889, ^Art X. 




Ib94. ] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



specimens. Tliey are also grayer than specimens from Indian River 

 loaned me by Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr. They are likewise much larger, 

 as the following table of measurements will show : 



In hispidus the ratio of total length to zygomatic width is 56-5 in 

 littoraUs 57*2, in the Tarpon Springs specimens 51 •4. 



A later specimen from Mr. Dickinson is very similar in every fea- 

 ture to typical hispidus from North Carolina, being browner than 

 typical littoraUs and quite as small, though nearly adult. The receipt 

 of this specimen has induced me to defer separating the southwestern 

 form until a large series is at my disposal from this region. These 

 two gray Cotton Rats from Tarpon Springs are either abnormally 

 large and the small one abnormally brown, or else there are two 

 species, the smaller, true hispidus, the larger, unnamed. Such a con- 

 dition of affairs is not impossible, the former being an inhabitant of 

 the inland fresh watei- marshes, the latter frequenting the maritime 

 shores. 



22. Eeithrodontomys humilis (subsp?) And. i^c Bach. Harvest Mouse. 



One si)ecimen received. I do not find any record of this mouse 

 from Florida. The specimen, if characteristic of the form inhabiting 

 southern Florida, represents a race as different from the northern 

 type as other of the Florida Muridte. 



The specimen, while apparently full grown, is not fully adult and, 

 in the hope of securing more specimens, further description is now 

 deferred. 



12 




162 pkooeedinus of the academy of [1894. 



contributions to life histories of plants, no xi. 

 by thomas meehan. 



On the Morphology of Bractless Inflorescence. 



In various papers I have given illustrations to demonstrate that the 

 variety of inflorescence known as extra-axillary results from the 

 sudden arrestatiou of a growing shoot, and the immediate growth of 

 the axillary bud, which pushes aside to a lateral position the former 

 leader and effectually takes its place, only to be itself pushed aside 

 by another developing axillary bud, when the proper time for that 

 development has arrived. 



Although this explanation is fully satisfactory so far as bracteated , 

 inflorescence is concerned, it does not explain the morphology of the 

 naked flowered class, the exact nature of which has never been de- 

 termined, and which, hitherto, I have never been able to understand. 



One has only to read the chapter on "Inflorescence " in "Sach's 

 Text Book " (English edition, p. 519 and following) to learn how con- 

 fused and uuphilosophical are prevailing notions concerning the na- 

 ture of the various forms of inflorescence. That ' ' Boraginacese 

 and Solanacere" present an inflorescence determined by " the re- 

 peated dichotomy of an axillary bud," is better expressed by my 

 proposition that it is determined by " the assumption of leadership by 

 the axillary growth ;" but though it is clear to Sachs that "the 

 ultimate floral axes or pedicels of the flowers " are " not axillary 

 in Aroidete, Crucifene, &c.," he still insists "that every inflor- 

 escence originates from the normal terminal branching of a growing 

 axis." " If bracts are conspicuously developed, the lateral axes 

 arise in their axils ; if they are inconspicuous or abortive, the lateral 

 axes of the inflorescence are not axillary, but their mode of branch- 

 ing and growth remain the same as if the bracts were present." 

 Though long satisfied that this diagnosis of naked inflorescence was 

 wrong, and that there never had been theoretical bracts to abort, I 

 have not, until now, been able to perceive that inflorescence is not all 

 constructed on one plan ; and that naked inflorescence, in particular, 

 does not need the theoretical conception of bracts and axillary buds 

 to account for its character. 




1894.] NATUKAI^ SCIENCES OF PHIJLADELPHIA. 163 



In Saxifragacea^ most species are characterized by liracteated iu- 

 dorescence, l)ut there is a small section, of which Saxifmria cmssifalia 

 is the type, which has naked cymes. With one species of this sec- 

 tion before me, S. cordata, it was evident that so wide a departure 

 from the rest of its family could not be explained by any conception 

 of axillary branching, such as a bracteated character involves. 

 Abortion of the bracts could not by any possibility, have occurred. 

 Neither could my own proposition of the pushing aside of a terminal 

 axis by the growth of an axillary bud have any place in this 

 arrangement. After many days of observation, thought, and com- 

 parison, the manner in which the inflorescence was formed became 

 so clear, that the only surprise was that it had taken so many years 

 to discover it. 



The inflorescence of these Saxifrages is formed simply by the 

 elongation of the petioles and coalition of the stipules; the branchlets 

 and the flowers, with their pedicels, are modifications of the leaj- blade; 

 the veins forming the pedicels, and the flowers proceeding from buds 

 formed at the apex of these veins. 



It is not necessary to go into close details, as the suggestion once 

 given, any one with one or several plants before him can see that this 

 is the fact. The bud scale, enclosing the embryonic flower scape is 

 the enlarged and dilated base of a leaf, which, at the end of the past 

 growing season, developed so far only as to form this scale. When 

 the growing season arrives, this scale is rejuvenated, and increases a 

 little in size, but the next one to elongate is perhaps double the length, 

 with no increase in width. The next is still longer and narrower, 

 with an imperfect leaf blade just beneath the apex. The perfect leaf 

 blade at length ensues, with a still greater elongation of the dilated 

 base, which we might now almost call the stipular portion. The 

 next following has an inch, or sometimes more, of a petiole between 

 the apex of this stipular jjortion and the leaf blade, still, however, 

 with the apex of what would have been a bud- scale, apparent. It is 

 important to note this projection as furnishing the key to what fol- 

 lows. The flower stem now pushes up, wholly leafless, but as the 

 lower branchlet of the cymose inflorescence develops, we see the 

 apex before noted in the axis, and by further observation may traCe 

 on one side of the main stalk, a ridge evidently fornjed by the over- 

 lapping outer edge of the coiled stipule. Succeeding branchlets 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



show, but in a les;s degree, the same arraugenieut. The nuraerical 

 order of the secondary branchlets of the inflorescence, and their 

 general divergence and arrangement, correspond well with the main 

 branchlets of the veins in the leaves, leaving no doubt in the mind 

 of the thoughtful observer of their morphological identity. 



Taking a glance at what occurs in other plants there is analogy 

 for the view here taken. Some Begonias form leaf-buds at the 

 end of their leading veinlets, as do many ferns; and a well known 

 plant in cultivation, Bryophylhoa cahjcinum, is increased mainly by 

 such buds. Morphologically there is no difl'erence between a leat- 

 bud and a flower- bud, so that we may reasonably expect flowers to 

 appear where leaf-buds may exist. And in other respects Bryo- 

 phylluin fortifies the position assumed for the Saxifrage. The leaves 

 appearing at an early stage of growth are entire, and formed much 

 as we find them in Saxij'raga cordata but as the flowering stem pro- 

 gresses towards the flowering stage, the newer leaves become divided, 

 and trifoliate — that is to say, the veins are comparatively destitute of 

 their normal cellular covering, and are on their way to become the 

 pedicels we find in the inflorescence of the Saxifrage. 



I may conclude by reaffirming the proposition already presented, 

 that nature does not depend on one melhod only as a plan for the 

 formation of inflorescence ; that in Saxifruga cordata, and probably 

 in bractless inflorescence generally, the elongation and coiling of 

 stipules or the dilated bases of leaf- stalks form the main axis or stem ; 

 and the leaf- blade the branches, branchlets and flowers. 



On Purple-Leaved Plants. 



A large number of plants occasionally produce individuals with 

 reddish or purple leaves. These are propagated by nurserymen, 

 and are known in gardens as " blood- leaved " trees and shrubs. 

 Thus we have blood-leaved oak, sycamore, beech, barberry and 

 many others. Perpetuated by grafting, these retain the blood- 

 leaved character through life, no variation from this characteristic 

 having been placed on record. 



No attempt to explain this eccentricity seems to have been made. 

 It is well to place together facts that may ultimately lead to an ex- 

 planation. 



In flower paintings the leaves and vegetative parts of plants are 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



165 



usually represented of a uniform tint of green, but the real artist 

 will tell us that there is seldom lacking a shade of brown or purple 

 in some portions of leaves and branches that are in the highest con- 

 ditions of vigor. The stronger growing shoots of the well-known 

 Pyrns japonica are always of a bright rosy brown, only in those 

 shoots growing in the interior of the plant, in partial shade, is the 

 brown tint wanting. lu the blood-leaved beech, the interior half- 

 starved leaves have little of the brown, and the more vigorous the 

 exposed branches are, the deeper is the shade. Blood- leaved trees 

 themselves are, on the whole, more vigorous than the normal green- 

 leaved forms frona which, in the language of the nurseryman, they 

 originally "sported." There is little doubt that in some unknown 

 way, a vigorous vital power is accountable for the blood-leaved char- 

 acter in these cases. 



A remarkable variation in the blood-leaved form of the common 

 white birch has recently occurred. Some twelve years ago, a small 

 plant was received from France. Some half a dozen were raised 

 from it by grafting on a closely allied species, Betula jjopulifolla. 

 From the ends of some of the lowermost branches in two of these 

 trees branchlets with the ordinary foliage of Betula alba have ap- 

 peared. The dark "red" or purplish brown color of the leaves 

 pervades the l)ark as well. In the reversion instanced not only the 

 leaves but the branches have 

 assumed the normal green. It 

 is interesting to note that the 

 reversion is not completed at 

 once. The dark color first 

 seems wanting in limited por- 

 tions of the bark as the growth 

 proceeds. At times the green 

 part widens, then again lessens 

 in length and width. In one 

 case the dark portion extends 

 as a hair line for four inches 

 upwardly before it finally dis- 

 appears. In one case half the 

 leaf is purple, the other half 

 green. There is no gradual shading oif of the green and the l)rown. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



but the lines are distinctly drawn where one tint ends and the other 

 begins. 



When these plants were grafted originally, one of the grafts one year 

 old was broken completely off. The stock pushed out a branch of the 

 blood- leaved form at a considerable distance down from the poin<^ 

 at which the graft had been inserted, a note of which was made at 

 the time in the " Botanical Gazette." This branch was of the same 

 species as the parent, Betula alha, and not Betula populifoUa, the 

 stock. 



We may conclude from these observations, that whatever the law 

 may be which induces this change of color from the normal green to 

 the blood- leaved condition, the change is effected in an original single 

 cell or nucleus of the seed, and that the subsequent cells carry 

 along the peculiarity of the mother cell through the whole life of the 

 tree. It is further evident that it is an additional character, and not 

 a change, as when the cell parts with it, as in the case of the birch 

 cited, growth goes on just as before. In the case of the branch 

 coming out below the point of union with the stock, we learn that 

 the reproduction of daughter cells from a mother cell can take place 

 downwardly as well as in other directions, and that buds and branches 

 can be produced from an origlval cell. There is no distinction in 

 nature between an axis and a leaf. They can both originate when 

 the conditions favor, from a single cell, in any part of the plant. 



On THE Origin of the Apical Cell. 



When treating of plant-tissues much has been said of the punctmn 

 regetatiopis, and the necessity of a pre-existing apical cell before a 

 liranch can be formed. It does not seem to be conceded that any cell 

 may, in an early stage of existence, produce a separate apical cell, 

 capable of becoming the parent of a liranch, whenever the exigencies 

 of the plant i-equire it. But I have had abundant evidence that 

 the primary meristem or cambium tissue can, in emergencies, easily 

 produce apical cells from which buds and branches can proceed. I 

 have seen numerous cases of horse chestnuts, jEscidua Hippocas- 

 taniim, Osage orange, Madura anrantiaca, and Cottonwood, Popidus 

 nionilifera,, cut down in the winter time, that made buds and branches 

 from the cambium tissue formed the preceding year, along the 

 whole circumference of the tree stump. Hundreds of cells from 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



this tissue would attempt to form shoots, many naturally being 

 crowded out, but enough finally making a growth to present a minia- 

 ture forest. The most remarka})le case of this nature came under 

 ray observation in 1893, and relates to two large Carolina Cotton- 

 woods, Populiis moniUfera, standing on the sidewalk at the corner 

 of Greene and Harvey Streets, German town. About the time of the 

 unfolding of the leaf, a hoi'se had gnawed away the bark, exposing 

 the wood for a space of nearly a foot in diameter. About midsum- 

 mer, when the new cambium layer Avas l)eing formed,' hundreds of 

 buds developing to leaves and branches, appeared from the edge of 

 the whole exposed surface of the new layer. It was a remarkable 

 sight that a layer of tissue, usually content to cover a wound with 

 new wood, should at the same time seem to be covered with scores of 

 what one would call seedling trees if they had been at the surface 

 of the earth. 



It must be well known to obsei'vers of trees which have had large 

 branches sawn off, that numerous buds producing branches will push 

 through the bark of the stump near where the upper portion was cut 

 away, proceeding, of course, from the primary raeristera tissue which 

 must have had the power to produce the necessary apical cells for 

 this bud formation. But it is not often that the same power can be 

 evidenced by similar growths from the exposed portions of wounds, 

 as the observations here recorded afford. 



The Fall of the Leaf in the Holly. 



Near Philadelphia the spring growth of the American Holly, 

 Ilex opaca, occurs in May. Simultaneously with the appearance of 

 the new growth the ground is strewed with fallen leaves. I have 

 thought, in common with most, if not all observers, that the swelling 

 of the new growth dislodged the old leaves, just as it seems to do in 

 the case of oak or beech leaves, where leaves that happen to remain 

 dry on the branches all winter, drop w^hen the new growth occurs in 

 spring. To my surprise I find that this is not the case in the holly. 

 After the copious fall already referred to, it is found that most of 

 the fallen leaves were those of last year. Two-year-old leaves on 



^I have shown in the Proceedings of the Academy, 1866, pp. 292-293, that it 

 is only aliout that time, in this tree, the tissue known as the cambium layer is 

 formed. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



the tree are abundant. Some of these are among the fallen ones, 

 but few, apparently, in proportion to those from among the last 

 season's growth. There is no fixed order in the dropping of the 

 leaves. On a branch with say ten last year's leaves, it may be the 

 first, fourth or fifth in the order of growth, or it may be a few of the 

 later ones. In some cases all of the last year's growth will fall 

 from the branch, leaving a few healthy leaves below of the year 

 previous to the last. These will probably fall in a natural manner 

 later in the season. 



Just here arises the question: What is the "natural manner" of 

 the fall of the leaf? If a branch of any tree be broken off before 

 maturity, the leaves dry, but remain attached to the parent branch. 

 There is no "fall of the leaf" in this case. On the same branch, 

 if it had been left on the parent stem, the leaf would have formed 

 cork cells at the junction of petiole and stem, and have fallen by mere 

 disarticulation at that point, in due season. Histology has taught 

 us that cork cells are differentiated from other tissue, but the man- 

 ner in which this has been brought about has not been demonstrated 

 so far as the writer is aware. It has been thought that the following 

 observations in connection with this subject may at least direct 

 thought, if they throw little direct light on the subject. 



On the leaves of the holly which are to fall, one or more small, 

 black blotches underneath the epiderm appear here and there, being 

 apparent both on the upper and under surface of these leaves. At 

 this season the parenchyma takes on a yellow cast, the black 

 blotches, however, retaining their character. Disarticulation then 

 follows. The leaves which are perfectly green, and with no dark 

 blotches on them, continue on the stem. The connection between 

 these blotches and the fall of the leaf is undoubted, and we may 

 almost as logically say they are connected with the formation of the 

 cork cells which act directly in disarticulation. 



Those of us who have had a wide experience with living vegetation 

 have no difficulty in surmising that these dark blotches are of a 

 fungous character. My good friend, the eminent mycologist, Mr. J. 

 B. Ellis, of Newfield, New Jersey, after a microscopic examination 

 of these fallen leaves, finds evidence that the marks are caused by 

 a minute fungus, though in this and similar instances he has never 

 been able to get nearer the fact than that they are manifestations of 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



some zymotic organism that permeates the whole structure of the 

 iudividual during its progressive growth. 



I have, in other papers, shown that the l)ark of trees is not 

 decorticated in any mechanical way, but by the growth of cork 

 cells, each species having its own time and manner of development. 

 In some trees these cells become active on bark but one or two years 

 old, while in the chestnut, Castanea, and some others it may be 

 twenty or more years before any sign of a "rough" bark appears, 

 through the quiescence of the cork cells. No one, as I have already 

 hinted, seems to have been able to demonstrate the causes whicli 

 lead to these varying and remarkable results. 



In the case of these holly leaves it is evident that they do not fall 

 in response to the requirements of any definite period of maturity, 

 but that the cork cells which provide for disarticulation are simul- 

 taneous witli the destruction of the parenchyma. This is apparently 

 the work of an adventitious agency, not essential to, but in some way 

 co-ordinate with the regular economy of the plant. 



On Bees and Honey-suckles. 



I was interested to-day, June 18th, in noting that while a few 

 honey bees persistently collected nectar from the mouths of honey- 

 suckles, by far the larger number collected from the fallen flowers 

 only. 



The plant was Lonicera japovica, in the two forms known in 

 gardens as L. brachypoda, and L. fiexuosa, both intertwining and 

 flowering together. I have, in the past, satisfied myself that a bee 

 which starts from the hive for pollen pays no attention to gathering 

 nectar, while the one looking for nectar collects that only. Whether 

 this is the course of labor for that trip from the hive only,or whether 

 these particular tasks occupy the whole day or more, may be an in- 

 teresting question. I had never noted bees collecting nectar from 

 fallen flowers ; indeed had not noted that fallen flowers had nectar, 

 so that the attention of the bees to them gave the subject a double 

 interest. 



The flowers are white when freshly opened, the next day yellowish, 

 the following they wither slightly and fall. Large numbers are col- 

 lected by the leaves on which they mostly lie till they turn brown 

 and shrivel completely. Those which were badly shrivelled seemed 

 preferable to the bees. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



On cutting across the tube of a white corolla near the base, and 

 then gently stripping the flower downwardly a large globule of nec- 

 tar protrudes. The same process executed on the older or yellow 

 flower, gives about the same quantity as also does the faded flower 

 of the third day. In the dried flower, taken before much shrivelling 

 had occurred, nearly as much nectar was found. The completely 

 shrivelled and twisted flower could not be "stripped" of its secre- 

 tion in this way, but it was certainly present and as abundant. The 

 bees carefully sought what would have been the mouth of the corolla, 

 and then extracted the sweets from that point. It soon became evi- 

 dent that the shrivelling and contracting of the tube of the corolla 

 acted in the same manner as the thumb-nail and finger in "stripping," 

 lessening the diameter of the tube, and forcing the nectar towards the 

 mouth, and within the reach of the visiting insect. 



As noted, the bees collecting nectar from these dead flowers, never 

 visited the fresh opening ones; while the few visiting the fresh 

 Howers never visited the dead or dying ones ; a very careful watch of 

 half an hour satisfied me on this point. It was noted that the latter 

 took considerable time and much labored effort with each flower. 

 There was an average of fifteen seconds to each flower, a very long 

 time for the average honey-making bee. Those working on the dry- 

 ing flowers made no more than the ordinary effort of bees with fresh 

 flowers. It was difficult to understand why in the same variety of 

 insect should each have its own line of procedure. If it should be 

 suggested that bees could profit by experience, and that those which 

 confined themselves to the freshly opened flowers were young bees 

 that had yet much to learn, there still remains the fact that they did 

 not profit by the experience of the older bees. Sometimes almost 

 side by side, it might be supposed that any creature that coujd jjrofit 

 by experience, would want to know what the one picking at a dried 

 flower had found. 



The relation between insects and flowers obtrudes itself here. 

 Many plants, as I have placed on record, shed their pollen and cover 

 the stigma before the opening of the corolla. Whether the stigma is 

 in receptive condition or not, the pollen remains there till it is, and we 

 may regard all such as "arranged for self-fertilization," if, indeed, 

 there is any such special arrangement in the vegetable world wholly 

 with this view, or with the special view of cross-fertilization. But in 

 this honey -suckle the anther sacs burst immediately on expansion and 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



the anthers are iii such close position to the stigma that it can scarcely 

 do aught but receive its own-pollen. All the flowei-s examined 

 seemed to have the stigmas completely covered with pollen, and I 

 feel pretty sure, with own-pollen. My plants are, however, infertile, 

 rarely a few berries mature. I should refer this to propagation from 

 an infertile plant, as we frequently find to occur in all classes of lig- 

 neous plants, which truit neither with own-pollen nor foreign pollen, 

 rather than to any want of ability in own-pollen to produce fertili- 

 zation as an abstract principle, as would be assumed by some. 



There still remains to be discussed why all this large amount of 

 nectar should be secreted by the flower with no apparent benefit to 

 itself in any conceivable way. But it is not safe to say, that, because 

 we can not see that any benefit results in relation to the visits of 

 insects, it is of no value in some, as yet, undiscovered operation in 

 the economy of nature. For aught we know it may be an excretion 

 rather than a secretion, which it may be as much an advantage to 

 get rid of when of no further use to the plant, as it is an advantage 

 to get rid of the corolla itself. 



A very curious circumstance in connection with these observations 

 was the discovery that each of these two forms of the Lonicera 

 japonica, have different times of the day for the opening of its blos- 

 soms. The expansion, as in so many points of growth, is rhythmic 

 and not a continuous effort. In the form known as Lonicera fiexuosa, 

 the lobes of the corolla parted so as to admit of the protrusion of the 

 stamens at 2 P. M. Further efforts at expansion rested till 4 P. M., 

 when the act was resumed and completed. L. brachypoda com- 

 menced opening at 5 P. M., and completed the opening by 7 P. M. 



There is no reason why variation may not occur in the behaviour 

 of plants as well as in the parts of their structure, but it is difficult to 

 conceive of any physiological value in these variations from any point 

 of view in the economy of plant life. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



THE DIFFERENTIAL ACTION OF CERTAIN MUSCLES PASSING 

 MORE THAN ONE JOINT. 



BY THOMAS EAKINS. 



It is not without diffidence, that I, a painter, venture to communi- 

 cate with a scientific l)ody upon a scientific subject ; yet I am en- 

 couraged by thinking that Nature is so nmny sided that the humblest 

 observer may, from his point of view, offer suggestions worthy of 

 attention. I am greatly indebted to Dr. Harrison Allen, who has 

 kindly added some explanatory notes. 



I have long been dissatisfied with the account in standard works 

 of the muscular action in animal locomotion. The muscles are clas- 

 sified principally as flexors and extensors, working and resting 

 alternately. Wishing to apply this system during my early dissec- 

 tions to the leg of the living horse, I was surprised to observe in the 

 strain of starting a horse car, that the so-called flexors and extensors 

 were in strong action at the same time. 



The classification was still farther from satisfactory when applied 

 to muscles passing over two or more joints, flexing perhaps one joint, 

 while extending another. In trying to understand the significance 

 of these last named muscles, I came to believe it to be very important 

 to discover if the one joint was extended more rapidly than the other 

 was flexed. This investigation demanded a consideration of the 

 amount and kind of leverage, and was extended from the muscles to 

 tendons ' which pass over the two or more joints. I next constructed 

 a model of the entire limb with flat pieces of half-inch pine board, 

 cut to the outline of the bones, the pieces pivoted together, having 

 catgut for tendons and ligaments, and rubber bands for muscles, all 

 attached to their places and proi>erly restrained. 



I had then the satisfaction of seeing this mechanism imitate in 

 many ways the action of the real leg, and was enabled to establish 

 two important principles, thus : First, the hoof-pieces properly set 

 upon the ground, the leg stood firm, all tendency to collapse being 

 prevented by the leverage of tendons passing joints. Secondly, the 



1 The use of the word " tendons " in the sense hero oniployed, does not refer to 

 the tendons in eonncction with muscular bellies, but to ligament- like structures 

 which ar(^ homologous with tlie muscles as these bodies are uniformly assigned 

 by authors to the musculature oftln^ limits. H. Allen. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OK I'HILiADELPHIA. 



173 



tiii'liteuing of the rubber biuids representing all the principal muscles, 

 both the so-called tlexors and the so-called extensors, «Y tlw suinetline, 

 caused the upper part of the limb to spring forward when released, 

 and proved to me that I was not mistaken in my observation on the 

 living horse. 



Returning to the dead horse, I denuded both a front and back leg 

 of every shred of muscular fibre, yet they sustained weight. 



There was no tendency to collapse, and an increase in the weight 

 only njeasured an increase of resistance. " (If one wishes to rejjeat 



my experiment with the dead 

 horse and should choose the 

 front leg, he must respect the 

 large tendon concealed in the 

 biceps brachialis which might 

 escape a careless dissection, 

 especially by one accustomed 

 rather to dissections of the 

 human body. ) Observation 

 of the living horse will teach 

 us, that, if he wishes to lie 

 down, he must first flex the 

 pasteiui, and the stumbling 

 horse must strike the hoof 

 with force enough to flex the 

 phalanges before he can go 

 down. 



To illustrate in the simplest 

 way the scheme of the muscles 

 and tendons passing more than 

 one joint I pivoted one little flat stick upon two others (fig. 1), and 

 on the horizontal sticks I drove in four pins leaving the heads pro- 

 ject slightly, the pin a close to the upper joint, the pin b farther from 

 it ; the pin d close to the lower joint, the pin c farther. If two in- 

 extensible strings be looped, one from a to c, the other from b to (/, 

 the upper horizontal piece is held up and will sustain weight. The 



Fig. 1. 



■'' Mr. Eakiiis exhibited to the members of the Academy photographs made by 

 him at tlic University of Penusylvauia in 1SS3, showing the front and l)ack leg of 

 a dissected horse, all the muscles having been removed. Nevertheless the limbs 

 sustained M'eight. H. Allen. 




174 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



a end cannot go down on account of the string h d and the b end can- 

 not go down for the string a c. If rubber bands be stretched on 

 the same pins, then the upper horizontal piece will, if released, spring 

 forward very far and very fast compared with the actual shortening 

 ot the rubbers (fig. 2). 



Fig. 2. 



The model of the entire limb had all the merit of a first approxi- 

 mation. It imitated pretty closely the movement of the leg itself. 

 A second and closer approximation can now be had by considering 

 in terms of my first elements, the variations from Nature made in 

 them to gain simplicity of construction. In the first place, articular 

 surfaces are not circular, so that a pivot does not accurately represent 

 their motion. Neither do bones moving in constraint, one against 

 the other, keep in the same plane, but their axes describe w^arped 

 surfaces from the helical character of the articulations. 



There is a constant change in the relative rates of motion of the 

 joints, involving likewise a constant change in the relative leverage. 



The problem becomes instantly one of extreme difficulty, yet a fair 

 appreciation may be obtained. 



The leg should be studied in several positions not consecutive, but 

 so far apart as to cause decided changes in the relative rates of the 

 ditterent levers, and so small a part of the path or trajectory should 

 be considered, that a simple curve or straight line may, without 

 error, be substituted as in the manner of studying evolutes. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIIvADELPHIA. 



175 



I now draw the boues of the front leg of the horse (fig. 3), and of 

 the hind leg (fig. 4), and with heavy black lines represent those 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 4. 



tendon:^ which suffice to hohl up the entire weight of the horse, and 

 which, bv their leverage in conjunction with the shapes of the 

 articular surfaces of the joints, determine the trajectory of the horse's 

 movement. (It seems likely that in the long run it was the trajectory 

 which determined the length and position of the tendons and the 

 shapes of the surfaces. ) 



In the diagram of the front leg I would like to call attention to 

 the humerus having its upper joint, the one with the scapula, well 

 back; while its lower joint, with the radius, lies well forward. The 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



great tendon running through the front part of the biceps brachialis 

 has a very short leverage below and a long one above.^ 



In the hind leg you will notice that the feraora-tihial joint is well 

 back, while the astragalo- tibial joint is well forward, and the tendon 

 in front of the tibia takes a longer leverage above than below, with 

 this condition reversed in the two tendons behind the tibia. 



When a horse stands in his usual position, the tendons which I 

 have drawn sustain his weight in stable equilibrium, because his cen- 

 tre of gravity is at the lowest point of its trajectory. 



The upper end of the dissected leg w^eighted heavily and moved 

 backward and forward in the vicinity of the standing position, will 

 there describe as a trajectory a flattish curve with its concavity up- 

 wards. At the lowest point of this concavity the leg settles when 

 the horse ceases his muscular effort and simply stands. Any mus- 

 cular effort that the horse may make from the standing position be- 

 gins by raising himself (A horse may, and often does, especially in 

 haunching himself, maintain his weight at a still higher point be- 

 hind by raising himself and slipping his patella over the inner troch- 

 lear surface of the femur, where it locks itself, and the weight of the 

 trunk is again sustained without muscular effort. To unlock the pa- 

 tella traction is made by the tensor vaginre femoris). 



To investigate the action of a muscle I believe it necessary to 

 consider it, not only with reference to the levers to which it is at- 

 tached, but with relation to the whole movement of the animal. 

 Then it will be seen that many muscles rated in the books as antago- 

 nistic, are no more so than are two parts of the same muscle. As an 

 exam])le, let us take the gastrocnemius. It is a short muscle, and 

 takes its origin above the knee, and is inserted by means of a long- 

 tendon (the tendo Achillis) into the calcaneum. It is said in standard 

 anatomies of the horse to be a flexor of the knee joint, of the leg on 

 the thigh, and also to bean extensor of the ankle joint. As a flexor 

 of the knee joint the muscle would be antagonistic to the great triceps 



^ The anatomist would express these facts as follows : 



The distal end of the scapnla and the proximal end of the humerus are not 

 all engaged in the formation of the shoulder-joint. The joint, indeed, lies well 

 back and constitutes less than one-third of the relatively enormous area. I wish 

 particularly to have noted, that the contact lietvveen the surfaces in the joint 

 takes place as shown iu figure 3, near the re-entering posteriorly placed angle, 

 which is formed between the scapula and the huiuerus, while, as opposed to this, 

 tlie contact at the elbow joint lietween the distal end of the Inimerus and the 

 in-oximal end of tlie radius takes place well forward, so as to be near the re-enter- 

 ing anteriorly i)laced angle between these two hones. H. Allen. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



177 



extensor of the thigh. The great extensor cruris, however, pulling 

 on the kuee-cap and straightening the knee joint, continually moves 

 forward the origin of the gastrocnemius muscle, and the latter pulling 

 on the calcaneum and contracting itself at the same time, draws for- 

 ward the calcaneum faster than the origin moves forward and acts 

 during the whole step. The muscular fibres of the gastrocnemius 

 are so short in the horse, that if the origin were not moved forward, 

 this muscle would reach its limit of contraction long before the end 

 of the step. Thus then, the gastrocnemius is auxiliary to the triceps, 

 not antagonistic. 



To prove this completely, let us cut away in the dissected horse 

 the triceps and every other muscle except the gastrocnemius, which 

 we will contract. Its action is precisely as before. It draws forward 

 the calcaneum, but it extends, not fiexes the knee. 



The paradox disappears when we study a tendon running up the 

 other side of the tibia, the tendinous portion of the flexor metatarsi. 



This tendon takes a greater leverage (fig. 5) 

 on the upper or knee joint that it passes, than 

 on the lower or ankle joint, that it also passes; 

 but the muscle has the reverse leverage. It 

 takes a shorter leverage at the knee than at 

 the ankle. In contracting, therefore, it raises 

 the calcaneum, drawing down the flexor me- 

 tatarsi tendon as shown by the direction of 

 the arrow in the drawing, and the flexor 

 metatarsi extends the knee-joint. Under- 

 standing then the differential action of the 

 gastrocnemius muscle, we might look upon the 

 triceps as the auxiliary of the gastrocnemius 

 in extending the knee-joint. 



The great muscles of the posterior aspect 

 of the thigh, the long vast of the veterinarians 

 (part of glut, max.), the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, the semi-mem- 

 branosus, the gracilis, are inserted not above the knee but below it; 

 not to flex the knee in progression, but to draw on an insertion that 

 in a ditferential manner is moving away from the origin of the mus- 

 cles, in order that the whole of the contractions may be utilized in 

 the whole stride. In progression, then, the croup muscles are auxili- 



FiG. 5. 



13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



aries to the great triceps on the other side of the femur aud to the 

 gastrocnemius. 



The arrangement and action of the thigh muscles are imitated by 

 the rubber bands of the small model (fig. 1). The up and down 

 stick represents the femur, the upper horizontal stick the pelvis, the 

 lower stick the upper end of the tibia. The rubber band from a to 

 c is the rectus femoris muscle, with a short leverage above and a long 

 one below. The rubber band from b to d is one of the croup muscles 

 Avith a greater leverage above than below. The simultaneous short- 

 ening of the muscles on botli sides of the femur throws, then, the pelvis 

 forward far and fast compared with the actual contraction in the lines 

 of the muscles themselves. 



To show how little this differential co-ordinate action of the muscles 

 and tendons has been understood, I shall quote a passage from 

 Chauveau.* 



Speaking of the tendinous portion of the flexor metatarsi he says : 



"Some have attributed to it still another use, that of passively 

 opposing itself to the flexion of the femur on the leg while standing, 

 and serving thus as an auxiliary to the muscular forces which hold 

 in equilibrium the weight of the body. This is wrong according to 

 us. For it to fulfil this function, the foot would have to be held in 

 a fixed situation by the contraction of its extensor muscles. Now 

 these muscles are indeed the gastrocnemii of the leg, which take 

 their origin behind the femur, aud which tend to flex this bone on 

 the tibia, that is to say, to cause the movement which they are sup- 

 posed to be charged to hinder. ' ' 



" Besides, experiment shows pretty well that we are right ; the cut- 

 ting of this tendinous cord, practised on the living animal, does not 

 change its appearance while resting on one or both hind legs." 



* " Ce tendon jouit de la curieuse propriete de plier le jarret par une action 

 toute mecanique, lors de la flexion des rayons superieurs du niembre. On lui 

 a encore attribue iin autre usage, celui de s' opposer passiveiuent ;\ la flexion du 

 femur sur la jamlie pendant la station et de servir ainsi d' adjuvant aux forces 

 musculaires qui font equilibre au poids du corps. C'est a tort, suivant nous. Pour 

 qu' elle (corde conductrice) piit remplir ce role, il faudrait que le pied fut main- 

 tenu en situation fixe par la coutractiou de ses muscles extenseurs. Or, ces 

 muscles sontjustement lesjumeaux de la jambe, qui preuuent leur origine en 

 arriere du femur et qui tendeut a op;' rer la flexion de cet os sur le tibia, c'est-a-dire 

 a determiner le mouvement qu' on les suppose charges d' empecher. L' experi- 

 mentation, du reste, montre assez que nous somraes dans le vrai: la section de 

 cette corde tendineuse, pratiquee sur 1' animal vivant, ne trouble nullement 

 I'habitude exterieure de celui-ci, ni pendaut la station libre. ni pendant la station 

 forcee." Chauveau. Traite d' Anatomic Comparee des Animaux domestiques. 

 Page 357. 




1894.] 



NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



179 



Now these people are right in attributing to the flexor metatarsi 

 tendon the function of opposing itself to the flexion of the femur, and 

 wrong only in making this function auxiliary to muscular forces, 

 which are not called upon to sustain weight, and which if called upon 

 in the usual way would start progression. 



"To fulfil the function of sustentation," says Chauveau, "the foot 

 would have to be held by the gastrocnemii muscles w^hich," he says, 

 "tend to flex the femur on the tibia." 



My experiment with the dead horse, the muscular fibres having 

 been cut away, shows that the perforatus and perforans tendons 

 maintain the foot, without the assistance of the gastrocnemius muscle, 

 which does not flex the former upon the tibia, but extends it, as I 

 have shown before. I mistrust entirely the accuracy of Chauveau's 

 observation as to the effect of cutting the tendon in the living horse. 

 The severance of this mighty cord in the dead horse causes instant 

 collapse. I suspeect that in Chauveau's experiment the cord was 



but imperfectly cut ; or, it may be, that by an 

 extraordinary co-ordination of muscular effort 

 the poor beast still stood for a short time previ- 

 ous to its final destruction, but it is inconceiv- 

 able to me that a trained and unprejudiced ob- 

 server should detect no change in the appear- 

 ance of the animal upon the destruction of such 

 a great part of the mechanism. 



I shall close this communication with another 

 beautiful example of muscular differential ac- 

 tion. In the arm of the horse (fig. 6) we have 

 two principal muscles, the biceps in front of the 

 bone and the triceps behind. The biceps flexor 

 radialis surrounds the tendon which I have 

 drawn in heavy black line, and takes a long 

 leverage above, at the shoulder joint, and a 

 very short one below, on the radius. The long 

 head of the triceps arises from the axillary 

 border of the scapula, and is inserted into the 

 olecranon. The olecranon is set far back and above the elbow joint, 

 to afford to the triceps a greater leverage below than above, reversing 

 the condition of the biceps. These two muscles, during the act of 

 progression, form a complete circuit of strain. The action of the 



Fig. 6. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



biceps is to extend the scapula on the humerus. This extension of 

 the scapula pulls through the triceps on the olecranon, and thus gives 

 the biceps a longer leverage on the radius than its own tendon gives it 

 in front of the elbow joint. Consequently the biceps extending the 

 scapula also extends, not flexes, the radius. 



The long head of the triceps, with its long leverage on the olecra- 

 non, extends the forearm, but in so doing it pulls on the tendon of the 

 biceps which, with its short leverage below and long leverage above, 

 extends the shoulder joint, notwithstanding the direct insertion of the 

 triceps into the scapula. The simultaneous contraction of the two 

 muscles will raise the shoulder-blade above the tendinous trajectory, in 

 replacing the tendons and aponeuroses by shorter lines. This causes, 

 especially towards the end of the stride, the great diff^erence between 

 the trajectories oi the dead and the living horse. Other circuits of 

 strains connect this part of the limb with the lower part and others 

 with the trunk, so that the least action anywhere is carried through 

 the whole animal. The differential action of the muscles secures to 

 the scapula from which the horse's body hangs, a much longer and 

 swifter throw, a concurrent and auxiliary movement of great mus- 

 cles, generally supposed to be antagonistic, a grace and harmony that 

 any less perfect system of co-ordination would surely miss. This 

 differential scheme is, perhaps, more apparent in the limbs of the 

 horse than anywhere else, but it extends to other parts of its muscular 

 system and to that of other animals including man. 



I think these differential muscles have been a great obstacle to 

 study. One is never sure that he understands the least movement of 

 an animal, unless he can connect it with the whole muscular system, 

 making, in fact, a complete circuit of all the strains. The differential 

 muscles once understood, it is less difficult to connect nearly all the 

 other great muscles with the principal movement of the animal, that 

 of progression in the horse; and to understand, roughly, the com- 

 binations necessary for other movements. 



On the lines of the mighty and simple strains dominating the move- 

 ment, and felt intuitively and studied out by him, the master artist 

 groups, with full intention, his muscular forms. No detail contra- 

 dicts. His men and animals live. Such is the work of three or 

 four modern artists. Such was the work of many an old Greek 

 sculptor. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



June 5. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



June 12. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



Tlie following were presented for publication : — 



Certain Sand Mounds of the St. Johns River, Florida. Part II. 

 By Clarence B. Moore. 



Crania from the Mounds of the St. Johns River, Florida. By 

 Harrison Allen, M. D. 



On a New Species of the Isopod Genus Bathynomua. By Dr. A. 

 Ortmann. 



The Changes which Take Place in the Skull, Coincident with Short- 

 ening of the Face-Axis. — Dr. Harrison Allen remarked that the 

 anatomist, while interested in establishing co-ordinates, is well aware 

 of the difficulties which are continually encountered. Still it must 

 be acknowledged that co-ordinations exist between the component 

 parts of every organism and as knowledge extends they will be 

 gradually formulated. 



The ensuing observations may be of value in denoting the kinds 

 of changes which take place in the skull upon the shortening of the 

 face- axis. 



It has been assumed by authors that the shapes and positions of 

 the teeth are the chief agents in modifying the shape and the size 

 of the region of the face. In Chiroptera this is not the case. In 

 comparing the cranium of the long-faced Choeronycteris and the 

 short-faced Ametrida, it is remarked that not only are the face- 

 proportions contrasted, but those of the zygomatic arches are changed 

 (namely, in being slender or absent in the one and high in the 

 other), while the face is broad at its base and the mesopterygoid 

 fossa widened. The greyhound and the English pug-dog exhibit 

 similar contrasts. In these varieties, in addition, the tympanic bulla 

 is relatively larger in the pug-dog than in the greyhound. In Pro- 

 boscidea the contrast between the length of the face-axis in Mastodon 

 and Elephas can be expressed in the development of the pneumatic 

 spaces in the skull ; not, indeed, l)y the inflation of the tympanic 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



bullte, or other parts of the base of the skull, but by the inflation of 

 the diploic structure of the frontal and parietal bones. 



In Edentata the difference between the long- faced Tattisia, Myr- 

 mecopliaga and the short-faced Megatherium, Bmdypus and Cholopus, 

 is about what has been already noted in the foregoing examples. 

 The zygomatic arch in the group last named, although incomplete, 

 is high. The tympanic bulla, it is true, is inconstantly inflated, but 

 that of the sinus in the frontal bone, compared with what is noted 

 in the long- faced types, is like that which is seen in Elephas as com- 

 pared with Mastodon. 



Similar points can be established in the Quadrumana. Macacxis 

 can be separated from Cynopithecus, not only by the length of the 

 face, but by Macacns having a more inflated tympanic bone. The 

 same remark is true of Propithecus and Nyctlcehus as compared with 

 Lemur. 



The genera of Carnivora, as illustrated in Melursus and Helarc- 

 tos, are in evidence of the same. 



Even in birds, as was suggested by Mr. Fred. Lucas to Dr. Allen, 

 the difference between the owl and the pelican and stork can be de- 

 noted by the amount of diploic structure in the head, as well as by 

 the length of the face. 



In Artiodactyla the evidence is obscure. In the remarkable fossil 

 genus Cyclojyidius, described by Prof. Cope, all the co-ordinates ap- 

 pear to be well established, namely, an extreme short face-axis is 

 accompanied with great increase of width of the zygomatic arches 

 and large tympanic bones. But these bones are generally large in 

 the long-faced artiodactyles. The influence of many factors of neces- 

 sity must be borne in mind before all the terms of the equation can be 

 determined. 



Care must be taken not to confound an isolated inflation of the 

 tympanic bulla with the probable co-ordination above named. In 

 (Jorynorliinus, Euderma and Dipus, as in some species of Vulpes, 

 the inflation is correlative with the size of the auricle, at least is 

 independent of the problem of face-shortening. 



Many suggestive features present themselves in the skull of man. 

 The inflations here, while basic, are not seen in the tympanic bones, 

 but in the tissue at the median aspect of the petrosal bones, and at 

 the sides of the exoccipitals. Prognathic and orthognatic forms can 

 be distinguished, as a rule, readily by these parts of the base of the 

 skull ; but, as in all things pertaining to the study of the human skull 

 co-ordinations are exceptionally difficult to establish. We are here 

 dealing not with characterizations of a generic kind, but with those 

 which are mutatory in tribal or racial groups of sub-species, and it is 

 not reasonable to look for features so sharply defined as are those of 

 genera of quadrupeds. 



Hyperostosis on the Inner Side of the Human Lower Jaw. Dr. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Harrison Allen also stated that in 1889 (Toner Lecture, Smithsonian 

 Institution) he announced the presence of a nodular hyperostosis on 

 the inner side of the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw of the Esqui- 

 maux. Virchow, 1890 (Zeitsch. fiir Anthropologic), briefly refers 

 to a sclerosed alveolar nodule in both the upper and lower jaw of a 

 Santa Barbara Indian. Dr. Allen thought it probable that Vir- 

 chow's claim (Crania Ethnica Americana, 1893) that his mass and 

 the one in the Esquimaux lower jaw were the same would not be sus- 

 tained. Virchow states that the Santa Barbara Indian exhibited the 

 nodules best developed in the upper jaw, which gave his observation 

 a distinct significance. Dr. Allen had lately noted the peculiarity, 

 previously observed by him in the Esquimaux, well-developed in the 

 lower jaw of the so-called Mound Builders. No claim is made that 

 the hyperostosis is of ethnic significance, though the presence of a 

 sclerosed hyperostosed surface constantly present in the Esquimaux 

 and occasionally present in the people of the Mounds, while it has 

 never been noted in the lower jaw of any other tribes, is an interest- 

 ing fact. 



June 19. 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D, D,, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty- two persons present. 



A paper entitled ' ' Some Notes from a Study of the Provancher 

 Collection of Ichneumonidae," by G. C. Davis, was presented for 

 publication. 



June 26. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 

 The following were elected members : — 



Elisha C. Hussey, Thomas S. Parvin and Dr. Harris A. Slocum. 

 Mr. Anstruther Davidson, of San Francisco, was elected a corres- 

 pondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



SOME NOTES FROM A STUDY OF THE PROVANCHER COLLECTION OF 



ICHNEUMONIDJE. 



BY G. C. DAVIS, 



It was with much satisfaction and high anticipations that I at 

 last found myself on the train, en route to Quebec, Canada, for the 

 purpose of studying the types of Ichneumonid^e in the Provancher 

 collection. Ever since a short while after the death of the Abbe, 

 I had been trying to ascertain what had become of the collection 

 and its condition, but my efforts proved futile until recently, through 

 the kindness of the Rev. Thos. W. Fyles, I learned of its location 

 and the means of access to it. 



I found the collection, as a whole, in three rooms of the Parliament 

 Building at Quebec. It was recently purchased by the province and 

 is a nucleus for a museum. The Abbe's collection consisted largely 

 of insects and shells, and the whole is now under the charge of 

 Mr. Saint Cyr, to whom great credit is due for the present good 

 condition of the collection. As curator he devotes his whole time 

 to the museum work, and throughout my stay very kindly assisted 

 me in every way possible. The relatives of the Abbe did not realize 

 the value of the collection of insects accumulated by him, and it 

 was only by the earnest effort of Mr. Saint Cyr, who was a co-worker 

 with the Abbe, that the collection was saved from entire destruction. 



Although the collection had been in their charge but a short time 

 the Lepidoptera were largely spoiled and many injured, and the other 

 orders suffered considerably. As the collection now stands, it is 

 neatly labeled and in fairly good cabinets. My time with the collec- 

 tion was quite limited, and farther than this I can only speak for the 

 Ichneumonidse. In that family I found quite a number of types 

 missing and some broken with only a part remaining. Another 

 feature, somewhat unsatisfactory, is, that, the collection is composed 

 primarily of two individual collections, which still remain separate, 

 and frequently specimens, labelled the same, were found to belong 

 to different genera and often to different subfamilies. This at once 

 showed a very superficial knowledge of the classification, and had 

 I not soon obtained the cue to it and had access to the Abbe's 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



descriptions, which are fairly accurate as far as they go, the arrange- 

 meut would have been still more annoying. 



It had been my fear for some time that probably there were 

 a number of errors in the Abbe's classification of species which 

 he described as new. The synonyms which Mr. Cresson found in 

 making his check list, the reports of other careful workers who had 

 seen some of the Abbe's work, and some examples of his determina- 

 tions sent me for verification, all went to prove this suspicion was 

 not without foundation. Feeling that good scientific work could not 

 be continued on the IchneumouidiTe as long as many uncertain species 

 were of doubtful classification, it seemed wisest to rectify these errors 

 before any further descriptive work was done in the family. This 

 and a chance to study the types was the object of my visit. To say 

 that I found errors is needless, as the list following this inti'oduction 

 Avill speak for itself. This list of corrections which I shall give is 

 complete only in one respect, viz. : classification of species in the 

 right genus. There are certainly many synonyms yet to be worked 

 out, but it will take more time to determine these, and the few given 

 herein are what I incidentally happened to recognize at a glance. 

 Quite a number of corrections and additions to the descriptions will 

 also be needed to make them clear and replete, but I shall not at 

 this time even touch upon this matter. The list is from notes taken 

 at the time the specimens were examined. The species not mentioned 

 are correct as to classification. 



Ichneumon adjunctus is the 9 oi Ichn. similaris. 



They are both identical in sculpture, form, and color markings, 

 except face and posterior tibioe and tarsi, which differ slightly in 

 shade. They belong to the genus Amblyteles. 

 Ichneumon aterrimus. Type not seen. 



" citrinus. Type not seen. 



" paradoxus. Type not seen. 



" quadrijywtctatus. Type not seen. 



" vaneouverends. Type not seen. 



" saguenayensis. Type not seen. 



HopUsmenus impar is a Cryptus, with the ovipositor broken oflT. 



" sfygicus. Type not seen. 



Amblyteles superbus. Type not seen. 

 Plafylabiis mitralis is a Phygadeuo)i. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Platylabus crassicornis. A Pliygadeuon and very close to viitralis. 

 ' ' cincticornis = Cryptus. 



" acicidafus. Appears to be a $ Pliygadeuon, though it 

 comes very close to Cryptus in several features. 

 Phceogenes annulatijyes. Type not seen, 

 " aterrimvs = Pliygadeuon. 

 " erassitelus = Heviiteles. 

 " huarti. Type not seen. 



" indistindus = Cryptus. The description of the type is 

 faulty. 

 Phceogenes nigricornis is either a Cryptus or Pliygadeuon. 

 " orhus = Herpestovuis. 

 " pinguis. Type not seen. 

 " reetlcornis = Cryptus. 

 " tuberculifer = Pliygadexion. 

 Exolytus politus. Type not seen. 

 Stilpmis appendieulaius. Type not seen. 

 " canadensis has the abdomen missing. 



' ' Icevis has the abdomen and hind legs missing. These both 

 belong to Cryptinse. 

 Stilpnus dejiciens belongs to Tliersilochus. 

 Pliygadeuon acaudus = Diccelotus. 

 " alternans = Ichneumon. 



" attenuatus = Herjpestomus ? 



' ' hrevicaudus = Ichneumon. 



" capitalis. Type not seen. 



" constrictus. Type has lost the hind legs and abdomen, 



but from the oblique petiolated arcolet and the general appear- 

 ance of what remains, the type evidently belongs to a genus in 

 Tryphoninre. 

 Pliygadeuon cornutus = Hemiteles. 

 '* curticrus = Amhlyteles. 



" excavatus. Type not seen. 



" fraterculus. Type not seen. 



*' fusiformis. Type not seen. 



' ' fasciatus = Colpognathus f 



" geddessii. Type not seen. 



* ' gracillcornis. Type not seen. 



' ' guignardi = Ichneumon. 




1894,] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



187 



Phygadeiton jocosus = Ichneumon. 

 " lavoiei = Cnjptus. 



** longicornis. Type not seen. 



•* marginatus. Type not seen. 



" niger. Type not seen. 



" palUcoxus. Type nearly destroyed, but seems to be a 



good species. 

 Phygadeimi rectus. Antennre wanting, but apparently a $ Oryptus. 

 " rubricns = Ichneumon. 



" similaris. Type not seen. 



" terminatus = Ichneumon. 



" 3-annulatus. Abdomen gone; antenna indicate a 



Cryptus. 

 Phygadeuon truncatus. Type not seen. A specimen labelled Phij- 

 gadeuon poteus is an Ichneumon. I know of no description of this 

 species. 

 Cryptus albonotatus. Type not seen. 

 " dubius. Type not seen. 

 " erythropygus. Type not seen. 



" flavipectus = Ichneumon scitulus (Prov. ). Type not seen. 

 " gracilis. Type not seen. 

 " ignotus. Type not seen. 

 " longicaudus. Type not seen. 

 " melUpes. Type not seen. 

 " ornatus. Type not seen. 

 " perditus. Type not seen. 

 " pubescens. Type not seen. 



" ruficornis = Phygadeuo)i nitidulus (Prov.). Type not seen. 

 ' ' segregatus. Type not seen. 

 " sordidus. Type not seen. 

 " spissicornis = Phygadeuon. 

 " 3-annulatus. Type not seen. 

 Mesostenus albicoxus. Type not seen. 

 " albifades = Mesoleptus. 

 ' * armatus. Type not seen. 



" collinns = Cryptus ebimieifrons (Prox.). Type not seen. 



'• fiavijjes ^ Phygadeuon. 

 " latigaster. Type not seen. 

 " nobilis = Phytodietua. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Mesodemis pluricmctus. Type not seen. 

 * ' ruficoxus. Type not seen. 

 " rufotindus. Type not seen. 

 " sericeus. Type not seen. 

 Hemiteles debiUs. Type not seen. 

 * ' gigas. Type not seen. 



" orbicularis = Stilpnus americanvs (Prov.). Type not seen. 

 " ovalis = Orthopelma ovalis. 

 " semirufus = Ischnocerus. 

 Heteropelma longij)es is apparently an Anomahn, though not typical. 

 Campoplex n tger = Uxetastes f 

 Limneria compacta. Type not seen. 

 " crassicornis = Campojjlex. 



" radiolata certainly belongs to some other genus than 

 Limneria. It has many characteristics of Pimplinse as well as 

 of the Ophionince. 

 Limneria rufipes. Type not seen. 

 " sericea. Type not seen. 

 ' ' sessilis f 



" sulcatus = Anomalon. 

 Pyrachmon annulatum is evidently a species of the Tryphoninie, and 

 from appearance of venation and areoleted thorax belongs to 

 Tryphon. Abdomen and most of legs gone. 

 Pyrachmon incompJetum is in most respects a typical Atractodes. 



" rufum = Mesoleius. 



Cremastus longicaudus = Atractodes f 

 ' ' mellipes = Limneria. 



'' rectm. Abdomen gone, but apparently well marked. 

 " royl = Atractodes or new genus. 

 Mesoehorus humeralis = Atractodes ? 



" pleuralis seems to be a Plectiscus as Provancher had it 



at first. 

 Mesoehorus truncatus = Mesoleius. 

 Cyrtoceutrus quebecensis to all appearance belongs to the genus 



Tryphon. 

 In Porizon the species angularis, borealis, elongatus, albipes, and 



californicus are referred doubtfully to the genus. 

 Thersiloclms errabundas = Porizon borealis. 

 " micans is probably a Porizon. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Exetastes brevipennis =^ Mesotenus prompt us (Prov. ). 



' ' clavatus. Type not seen. 

 Banchus caudatus = Exetades. 

 3fesoleptus albopleumVis will probably prove to be a $ Atractodes 



from the venation and other characters. 

 Mesoleptus angustus. Type not seen. 

 " annulatipes. Type not seen. 



" barbatus = Limneria. 



" fasciatus. Type not seen. 

 " fiUformls = Crypt us $ . 



" fiavicornis to all appearance belongs to Ophionintie. The 

 abdomen is compressed at the tip, and the petiole is long, straight, 

 and slender. 

 Mesoleptus largus = Tryphon. 



" nigricornis = Ctenopelma (Prov. ) Type not seen. 

 " rhopalocerus = Tryphon. 

 " rufipes = Echthrus pediculatus. 

 " rufidus = Phygadeuou. 

 " sericeus = Cryptus ? 

 " uniformis. Type not seen. 

 " variabilis = muUebris (Prov.). 

 Eclyfus robustus. This certainly is not Eclytus. The abdomen is 

 wanting, but the head and thorax, with wings, indicate Mesoleius 

 or Mesoleptus. The areolet is petiolate and somewhat obscure, 

 but present. 

 Mesoleius annulatus = Phytodictus vulgaris Or. 

 ' ' chicoutimiensis = Tryphon. 

 ' ' fissus = Lampronota ? 

 " iiiflatifrons = Exochus semiriifus Cr. 

 " junctus = Bassus frontalis Cr. 

 ' ' telarius = Phytodietus zonatus. 

 Tryphon dufresnei $ is a large species of Mesoleius; the small $ 

 belongs to the genus Tryphon. 

 *' excavatus = 9 Mesoleius. 

 " fraetus = La)n])ronota. 

 " fumipennis. Type not seen. 

 '' gaspesianus = Polyblastus (Prov.). 

 Polyblastus annulicornis = $ Tryphon. 



' ' decoratm = Lampronota f Areolet wanting. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Polyhlastus inornatus = Lampronota. 



' ' ga)<pe!iiaiiu.^ = Tryphoti. 



Erromemis bedardi = Tryphon. 

 Cteniscus canadensis. Type not seen. 

 " crassipes. Type not seen. 

 " huUensis. Type not seen. 

 " rufus = Acrotomiis. 

 Exyston niarginafum. Type not seen. 

 lihocentrus alhojasclatas = Megastyhis or possibly Mesoleptas. 



" lucens. Type not seen. 



Orthroeentrus pilijrons is badly injured, with antennae and abdomen 

 entirely gone. Femora slender, and areolet as in the Cryptina), 

 where it undoubtedly belongs. 

 Orthocentrus nigricoxus. Type not seen. 

 Bassus cylindricus = Pimpla inquisitor Say. 

 ' ' dorsalis = Pleetiscus. 

 " fmcitarsis = bieapillaris Walsh. 

 " longicornis = $ oi elongatus. 

 Coleocentriis meUipes. Type not seen. 

 Rhyssa erevieri = albomactdata $ . 

 Thalessa quebecensis. Type not seen. 

 Meyiiscus ashmeadii = Pimpla annulipes. 



" marginatus = Pimpla annulipes. 

 Aplomerus tibialis. Type not seen. 

 Echthrus nigricornis = Cryptus or Phygadeuonf 

 " pediculatus =^ Euxroides? 

 ( i provancheri = Cryptus extrematus (f) 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHIEADELPHIA, 191 



A NEW SPECIES OF THE ISOPOD-GENUS BATHYNOMUS. 

 BY DR. A. ORTMANN. 



Ill the year 1877, A. Agassiz dredged at 955 fathoms, in the Gulf 

 of Mexico, a gigantic Isopod, described by A. Milne-Edwards 

 (Conipt. Rend. Acad. Sc, t. 88, 1879, p. 21, and Annal. Magaz. 

 Nat. Hist. (5) III., 1879, p. 241) as Bathynomus giganteus. De- 

 lineations of this form were subsequently published by Filhol (La- 

 vie au fond des Mers, Paris, 1885, p. 147), ^ and by A. Agassiz (Three 

 Cruises of the "Blake." Bull. Mus. Compar. Zool., Vol. XV., 1888, 

 fig. 252. ) Wood-Mason and Alcock made mention of the same species 

 (Annal. Magaz. Nat. Hist. (6) VII., 1891, p. 270) taken by the 

 "Investigator" in the Bay of Bengal at 740 fathoms. Lastly, 

 Hansen (Det K. Dansk. Vidensk. Selsk. Skr. Nat. Math. Afd. (6), 

 V. 3, 1890, pp. 252, 318, 378) pointed out the close resemblance to 

 the family Cirolanida^ while Milne- Edwards proposed to place this 

 genus in a new group or family, " Cymothoadiens branchifhres." This 

 latter opinion was adopted by Wood- Mason and Alcock in creating 

 the family Bathynomidie. 



After a careful examination of both opinions I believe Hansen's 

 classification to be correct. 



Bathynomus giganteus, which is remarkable, not only for its enor- 

 mous size, but also for other morphological characters, was hitherto 

 the only species of the genus. I describe herein a second species 

 collected by L. Doderlein, during his sojourn in Tokio, Japan (1880- 

 81), which, although smaller than the other, always attains dimen- 

 sions unusual among the Isopoda. I propose to name the new species 

 in honor of the discoverer, Bathynomus ddderleini. 



Diagnosis. — Body more slender than in B. giganteus, three times 

 as long as broad (B. giganteus is not two-and-a-half times as long 

 as broad). The last segment of the body (telson) is but little 

 broader than long, its posterior margin is provided with seven spines, 

 the middle one of which is the greatest. In the median line of the 

 upper surface is a distinct longitudinal ridge. Both branches of the 

 uropoda are pointed at the ends. 



1 I have only seen the copy in Marshall, Die Tiefsee und ihr Leben, 1888, p. 261, 

 fig. 86. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Description. — Total length of the greater specimen 123 mm., 

 breadtli 42 mm., of the smaller 103 mm. and 36 mm. The whole 

 upper surface finely granulated and punctured. 



Frontal margin, in the middle, feebly sinuated, with a short pro- 

 cess bent downwards. Eyes placed in the lower surface of the head, 

 beneath the frontal margin, which is distinctly raised. Lamina 

 frontalis equilaterally triangular, the angles rounded, the anterior 

 meeting with the frontal process. Clypeus produced forward as a 

 blunt, triangular projection, extending over the frontal margin so as 

 to be visible from above, its longitudinal diameter greater than that 

 of the labrum. The stalk of the antennuliB has three joints, the 

 flagellum is about as long as the stalk, with nearly thirty joints. 

 Stalk of the antennse five-jointed, the first joint short and concealed, 

 Flagellum in both specimens mutilated, the longest fragment has 

 twenty-five joints, and reaches to the posterior margin of the first 

 segment of the trunk. 



Segments of the body finely punctured, the first as long as the 

 head, the others considerably shorter, decreasing a little from before 

 to behind. The first and second epimera nearly alike, not produced 

 posteriorly, the four following posteriorly acutely produced, especi- 

 ally those of the fifth, sixth and seventh segments. The three an- 

 terior pairs of feet stout, second joint (see Hansen) not thickened, 

 third longer than broad, fourth with the inner margin thorny, the 

 process of its outer margin reaching to the middle of the sixth joint 

 (but in the first pair of feet very short), sixth joint elongated and 

 curved. The four following pairs of legs similar to each other, in- 

 creasing in length. Second joint not remarkably thickened or en- 

 larged. Third joint distally enlarged, the anterior margin with 

 prickles, similar prickles at the anterior margin of the fourth and 

 fifth joints. Sixth joint but little longer than the fifth, narrow. 



Segments of the pleon evenly arched, the lateral angles of the 

 second to fifth produced posteriorly and provided with a longitudinal 

 ridge, those of the third segment longest. Pleopoda with roundish, 

 almost equal branches, carrying at the hinder part of their bases the 

 tufts of branchiiie characteristic of the genus, but since both are dried 

 specimens the pleopoda and the branchiae hare become crumpled, 

 and therefore it is impossible to give the details. 



Last segment (telson) punctured and finely granulated, at the 

 base but little larger than long, the lateral margins somewhat con- 




1894.] NATURAT. SCIENCES OF PHIIjADELPHIA. 193 



verging posteriorly. Posterior margin trnncated and provided with 

 seven spines. The median line of this segment is occupied by a 

 longitudinal keel, produced to the end of the middle spine of the 

 posterior margin. This spine is somewhat longer than the others 

 which are likewise somewhat unequal, on either side the second (from 

 the middle outwards) being a little longer than the other laterals. 

 Stem of the uropoda produced at the inner posterior angle, outer 

 branch elongated, the margins nearly parallel, acuminated at the 

 end. The inner branch almost triangular, acuminated posteriorly, 

 longer than the outer, not looking over the telson. Both branches 

 with several prickles at the margins. 



The legs were originally covered with hair, but now are nearly 

 worn bare because of the dry conservation. The hairs on the mar- 

 gins of the uropods and the telson are also preserved only here and 

 there. 



This species occurs on the Japanese coast, near Enoshima, Sagami 

 Bay. The depth is not recorded ; probably it lives associated with 

 the famous Japanese Hexactinellida^ and Lithistidte. The types be- 

 long to the Doderlein collections and are deposited in the museum 

 of Strassburg, Germany. 



14 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



THIRD ADDITION TO A KNOWLEDGE OF THE BATRACHIA AND 

 REPTILIA OF COSTA RICA. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The present paper is a continuation of the subject which has been 

 treated in several contributions, and is preliminary to a second illus- 

 trated memoir, which, it is hoped, will present the subject in some 

 completeness. The last "Addition" appeared in the Proceedings of 

 the American Philosophical Society for 1893, p. 333; and the illus- 

 trated memoir was published in the Journal of this Academy for 

 1875. 



I am indebted to the Museo Nacional of San Jose for the oppor- 

 tunity of examining the material here described. 



BATRACHIA. 



URODELA. 

 (Edipus robustus sp. nov. 



Size large ; proportions robust. Twelve costal folds. One pha- 

 lange of digits free, as in ffi. morio, except in the inner (first) digits, 

 which are entirely enclosed. Extended limbs separated by two 

 intercostal spaces. Head flat, wide ; muzzle short, its truncation 

 little conspicuous; no canthus rostralis. Width of head entering 

 length to groin five times. Eye small, its fissure equaling one- 

 fourth the width of the head, and less than the interorbital space. 

 Vomerine sei'ies straight in the transverse direction ; extending 

 beyond the nares externally, and abruptly recurved at the internal 

 extremity toward the parasphenoid patch, which they do not reach. 

 Parasphenoid patch not divided anteriorly. Tail rounded, the ex- 

 tremity moderately compressed. A gular fold. 



Color, uniform plumbeous ; soles paler. 



Dimensions 206 mm. ; length of head and body, 98 mm. ; to gular 

 fold, 22 mm. ; width of head at rictus oris, 16.5 mm. ; length of an- 

 terior limb, 20 mm. ; do. of fore foot, 6. 5 mm. ; length of posterior 

 limb, 21.5 mm. ; do. of hind foot, 6 mm. ; width of do. at base of 

 fifth digit, 7 mm. 



This is the largest salamander of tropical America, equaling in 




1894.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



length the Spelerpc.< hellii Gray. Ft resembles in appearance the 

 unicolor form of that species, but differs in its proportions, as well 

 as in the generic character displayed by the feet. The muzzle is 

 longer, and more broadly truncate, and the head is narrower, than in 

 the S. helUi. In the latter the eye is larger, equaling the width of the 

 interorbital space plus that of an eyelid, and is little less than half 

 the width of the head posteriorly. 



One specimen, No. 226, from the Faldas of the volcano of Irazu, 

 from J. P. Cooper. 



SALIENTIA. 

 Hyla cherrei sp. nov. 



Vomerine teeth few, opposite the middle of the very large choanse, 

 at the apex of a ridge which proceeds from the antei'ior margin of 

 the latter. Ostia pharyngea round, large, but smaller than choanse. 

 Tongue longer than wide, but little free, and openly notched poste- 

 riorly. Tympanic drum distiuct, one-half the area of eye, and equal 

 in vertical diameter. Iris dark. Man us almost without web ; pes 

 fully palmate. Thumb not opposed. Heel of extended hind limb 

 reaching end of muzzle. Canthus rostralis straight angular, lores 

 vertical. Width of interorbital space 1.5 times the width of an 

 eyelid. External nostrils terminal, a little nearer the eye than the 

 diameter of the latter. Muzzle not prominent, vertical in profile. 

 Skin smooth above. 



Head and body above pigmented probably with yellow, in abrupt 

 contrast to the color of the rest of the integument, from which it is 

 separated from the orbit to the sacrum by a narrow white stripe. 

 Colors otherwise uniform straw-color, the limbs pigmented on the 

 exposed surfaces ; the humerus and femur not pigmented. 



Length of head and body, 26 mm. ; do. of head to canthus oris, 

 5 mm. ; width of head at do., 8 mm. ; length of fore limb, 17 mm. ; 

 of fore foot, 6 mm. ; length of hind limb, 45 mm. ; do. of hind 

 foot, 20 mm. ; do. of astragalo-calcaneum, 8.5 mm. 



No. 253, Alajuela, R. Alfaro. 



This small and brightly colored species differs from all others 

 known to me in the combination of characters it presents. The 

 sharp canthus rostralis, anterior vomerine teeth, elongate tongue, 

 large choanse, and webless fingers, are not found together in any 

 other species. It is dedicated to Mr. Geo. K. Cherrie, of San Jose, 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



to whom I am indebted for the opportunity of studying the present 

 collection. 



Hylella chrysops sp. nov. 



Head short, wide, canthus rostralis wanting. Tongue a little 

 longer than wide, faintly emarginate ; ostea pharyngea each a trans- 

 verse slit. Tympanum not visible. Pupil a dumb-bell shaped 

 horizontal slit in the golden iris. Heel of extended hind limb 

 reaching to end of muzzle. The muzzle is as long as the diameter 

 of the eye, and does not project beyond the lips ; nostrils terminal. 

 The fingers are one-third webbed, the thumb free, and at least as 

 long as the short third (second) digit. Hallucal tubercle minute ; 

 pallets well developed. 



Color above and below yellow ; pigment more conspicuous on 

 edges of eyelids. No markings of any kind, except that one speci- 

 men is covered above with rather distinct, minute, black specks. 



Total length, 22 mm. ; length of head to canthus oris, 6 mm. ; 

 width at do., 8 mm. Length of anterior limb, 13.5 mm.; do. of 

 anterior foot, 6 mm.; do. of posterior limb, 36 mm.; do. of hind 

 foot, 15 mm.; do. of astragalo-calcaneum, 7 mm. 



No. 252, Alajuela, R. Alfaro ; 492, San Jose, P. Biolley. 



This small and brilliant species is related distantly to the H. plaiy- 

 cephala Cope, from the West Coast of Mexico. In that species the 

 canthus rostralis and the tympanum are well marked, and the size 

 is larger. 



Lithodytes euryglossus sp. nov. 



A large species with small pallets, in which the heel does not 

 reach the end of the muzzle, although it extends to a point anterior 

 to the eye. General appearance that of a LepfofJacfijlas. No dis- 

 tinct canthus rostralis ; end of muzzle sloping backwards from lip- 

 border. Tympanic disc a vertical oval, of which the long diameter 

 is two- thirds that of the eye. Nostril nearer the end of the muzzle 

 than its distance from the orbit. Tongue wider than long, openly 

 notched posteriorly. Choame moderate. Vomerine teeth in two trans- 

 verse series, on transverse ridges whose anterior borders are in line 

 with the posterior borders of the choaiue, and whose external borders 

 are a little within the internal borders of the choau;e. Ostia pharyn- 

 gea larger than choame. Pallets distinct but small, smallest on the 

 manus. Digits without dermal margins. First and second fingers 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 197 



equal. Inteiiument everywhere smooth. A discoidal abdominal 

 fold. A fold on the distal half of the external border of the tarsus, 

 extending to a rather prominent prtehallucal tubercle. 



Color above, brownish lead- color ; below whitish. Groin reticu- 

 late, and sides punctate with the dorsal on the ventral color. Four 

 brown spots on the upper lip anterior to the line of the tympanum, 

 and a black sti'eak above and behind the tympanum. A blackish 

 cross- band between the posterior parts of the orbits, and some black 

 longitudinal spots on the dorso-lateral region, bounding upwards the 

 paler color of the sides. Limbs with obscure blackish cross-bands. 

 Thighs behind, whitish at base, and obscurely reticulate on the supe- 

 rior and distal portions. Limbs below, and gular region, clouded. 



Total length of head and body, 75 mm. ; do. of head to line of 

 cauthus oris, 19 mm; width of head at do., 28 mm. Length of 

 anterior limb, 40 mm. ; do. of head, 18 mm. ; do. of posterior limb, 

 115 mm. ; do. of hind foot, 50 mm. ; do. of astragalo-calcaneum, 

 20 mm. 



This is the largest species of Lifhodytes, but it is less robust than 

 the L. gulosiis Cope. In general appearance it reseml>les one of 

 the large species of Leptodadylus, but it is a true Hylodine, with 

 T-shaped terminal phalanges. It has some resemblance to L. mela- 

 nostictus, but that species has much longer hind limbs, larger pallets, 

 an oval tongue, etc. A single specimen of the L. euryglosHus is in 

 the collection, which was taken at San Jose, by Sen. P. Biolley (No. 

 448). 



Levirana vibicaria gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. gen. — Identical with Ramda, but ^^^thout vomerine teeth. 



Char, specif. — Form robust, muzzle short, wide ; hind limbs rather 

 short, the heel reaching to the front of the eye. Canthus rostralis 

 strongly marked, angulated at the nostril, anterior to which it is de- 

 flected to the apex, which does not project beyond the lip- border. 

 Loral region slightly concave; nostril nearly on canthus, -6 the 

 length of the muzzle anterior to the orbit. Tympanic drum sub- 

 round, about u the diameter of the eye-slit. Choana) rather small, 

 about equal to ostia phai-yngea. Tongue large obovate, deeply 

 emarginate posteriorly. Digits with slight terminal enlargements; 

 those of the fingers scarcely distinct, those of the toes supported by 

 elongate T-shaped phalanges. Second (first) finger a little shorter 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



than third (second); inferior tubercles inconspicuous. Toes half- 

 webbed, fourth digit with three, the others with two free phalanges. 

 Sole with one tubercle, the flat oval pr;ehallux. Integument smooth 

 everywhere. A wide glandular body connecting rictus oris and 

 humerus ; a glandular thickening extending from orbit to end of 

 urostyle, which is unusually wide between the orbit and the sacrum. 

 No dermal folds. 



Color above a dark olivaceous gray; side of head and a stripe 

 from orbit to urostyle, black. Two rows of small black spots on 

 each side of the vertebral column. Superior side of limbs colored 

 like the back. Inferior surfaces of the body yellowish, more dis- 

 tinctly yellow on inferior surfaces of hind limbs. Concealed surface 

 of femur with a reddish tinge, unspotted. Superior face of femur 

 with a black stripe on the distal half. Lips unspotted, with a dark 

 shaded border. 



Length of head and body 65 mm.; do. of head to rictus oris 

 21 mm. ; width of head at rictus oris, 25 mm. ; length of fore limb, 

 40 mm.; of hand, 15 mm.; length of hind limb, 101 mm.; of hind 

 foot, 49 mm.; of astragalo-calcaneum, 10 ram. 



No. 3912, Rancho Redondo on the divide of the Irazu Range; 

 3915-6, Isla Nueva near the head of the RioSucio, on the Atlantic 

 side ; all taken by G, K. (^herrie. 



This distinct species is probably an inhalntant of the elevated 

 mountain region, and it has so far escaped the observation of collec- 

 tors, who have mostly ex})lored lower elevations. It is not nearly 

 related to any species hitherto known. 



REPTILIA. 



LACERTILIA. 

 Cnemidopliorus amivoides sp. nov. 



Eight abdominal rows of subequal plates; a row of plates at the 

 gular fold, which, with a few granules form its border. A group of 

 about 18 enlarged posterior gular scales, which does not have a 

 transverse posterior liorder separating it from smaller scales. Nos- 

 trils in nasal suture. Three supraoi-bitals, a small plate occupying an 

 angular space between the second and third, at the external edge on 

 both sides. Two interparietals and one parietal, followed by three 

 rows of smaller plates. Five infralabials in the second (large) row. 

 Sixteen femoral pores. Four preanal plates larger than those sur- 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1^9 



roundinii' them, two of them transverse and posterior, and two longi- 

 tudinal and anterior. Tliree rows of brachial plates, the anterior 

 continuous with the posterior of two rows of antebrachials. No 

 postantebrachials. Four rows of plates on inferior side of femur at 

 middle, and two rows on inferior side of tibia. 



Color above dark brown, with three narrow yellowish stripes on 

 each side, which proceed respectively from the temple, and from the 

 superior and inferior borders of the tympanum. The inferior stripe 

 is more or less broken into elongate spots. The space between the 

 superior and median stripes is marked by black cross-bars, and a 

 row of black spots extends along the inner side of each of the supe- 

 rior stripes. A light stripe on the posterior face of the femur, which 

 is continued on the tail. Below this stripe on the femur, another 

 less perfect stripe, and above it a longitudinal row of spots. Tibia 

 with small light spots. Upper surface of femur and tibia brown, 

 blackish varied. Inferior surfaces pale greenish- blue; top of head 

 light lirown. 



Length of head and body, 64 mm. ; length to edge of gular fold, 

 21 mm.; do. to auricular meatus, 15 mm.; width of head at rictus 

 oris, 11 mm. Length of fore limb from axilla, 21 mm.; length of 

 fore foot, 10 mm. ; length of hind leg from canthus ani, 45 mm.; do. 

 of hind foot, 24 mm. 



This species resembles very much the younger specimens of the 

 Amiva iindujata, but is a true Cnemidophorus with sagittiform 

 tongue. It differs in specific characters from both that species and 

 the A. quadrillneaia, in the possession of three rows of brachial scuta, 

 instead of one. In coloration it differs from the young striped stages 

 of those species in having three light stripes on each side instead of 

 two. The longitudinal division of the interparietal plate is a marked 

 peculiarity, but may be abnormal. The two plates together, how- 

 ever, are larger in dimensions than a single interpainetal. Among 

 C'nemidophori it is nearest to the C. lemniscatus in appearance, but 

 it differs in almost all points of squamation of the head and throat. 



No. 286, La Carpiutera ; A. Alfaro. 



Ciiemidopliorus alfaronis sji. nov. 



Allied to C. deppei. Nostril entirely in nasal plate ; first loreal 

 bordering first three labials; second loreal higher than long. Supra- 

 orbital plates four on one side, and five on the other, the first quite 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



small, the third and fourth broader than long. Interparietals and 

 the single parietals, longer than the frontoparietals. Infralabials 

 eight; median gulars enlarged all the way across, graded; scales of 

 mesoptychium large, in two or three rows, no granules on the border. 

 Abdominal plates in eight rows ; large brachials in six rows, continu- 

 ous with brachials ; no postantebrachials. Six rows of femorals at 

 middle. Femoral pores nineteen. Preanal plates about a dozen in 

 a triangular patch continuous with the ventrals. Extended hind foot 

 reaches to orbit. 



Four white lines on each side, and a vertebral line. Spaces be- 

 tween first and second, and dorsally between fourths of opposite side, 

 greenish-gray; space between second and fourth, black. Head 

 paler; below greenish-white. Posterior limbs with four irregular 

 longitudinal lines; one anterior, two superior, and one posterior. 



Total length, 170 mm.; length to vent, 55 mm.; do. to collar, 

 19 mm.; length of fore liml), 20 mm.; do. of hind limb, 41 mm.; 

 do. of hind foot, 23 ram. 



This species resembles in general appearance the C deppci deppei,^ 

 but the scutellation is materially different. An important character 

 is the presence of four supraorbital plates, from the last of which a 

 fifth may be cut off. The parietals and interparietals are also rela- 

 tively longer than in that species. 



No. 216, San Mateo; found by Sen. Anastasio Alfaro, Director of 

 the Museo Nacional, to whom the species is dedicated. 



Celestus cyanochloris sp. nov. 



Scales in thirty- three longitudinal series all with about a dozen 

 longitudinal keels, and no prominent median keel, except on the tail, 

 beyond the base. The scales of the tail are roof-shaped, so that 

 the lateral edges run in open furrows, while the middle line is promi- 

 nent. The striations extend not only to the head, but the parietal 

 and interparietal plates are grooved and i-idged. The rostral and 

 symphyseal plates are of equal width. Two postnasals, two i)re- 

 loreals and two postloreals, one above the other in each pair. A 

 large preocular; two suboculars, the posterior elongate, and four 

 postoculars. Four external, and four internal supraorbitals. Parie- 

 tals wider than the triangular interparietal, each three times as large 



1 For definition of the subspecies of C. deppei, see Transiic. Amer. Philos. 

 Soc, 1892, p. 30. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



as the well- separated frontoparietals, and bounded by five scales 

 between the frontoparietal and the single transverse postparietal. 

 Frontal twice as Avide as long. Eight superior labials to end of long 

 subocular, the second reaching to the middle of the postnasal only. 

 Auricular meatus horizontal, shorter than eye fissure. Extended 

 limbs separated by the length of the anterior foot only. 



Color above light golden-green, with several indistinct longitudinal 

 rows of paler spots as large as a scale, mingled with as many brown 

 spots as large as a scale. Sides paler than back. Lower surfaces 

 blue, paler on chin and tail. 



Total length (end of tail lost), 151mm.; do. to vent, 70 mm.; 

 do. to line of axilla, 16 mm. ; do. of fore limb, 16.5 ram.; do. of hind 

 limb, 22 mm.; of hind foot, 11 mm. 



This species is allied to the C. steindachnerii Cope. The latter has 

 seven superior labials instead of eight, of which the second reaches 

 the loreal, as it does not in C. eijatioclilons; the postnasals are much 

 shorter. The scales of the anterior regions and parietal plates, are 

 smooth, and the color is totally different. The limbs are shorter. 



This handsome species, whose coloration is unique m the genus, 

 was found by Sen. Juan Cooper, on the volcano of Irazu, No. 217. 



OPHIDIA. 



ASINEA. 

 Trimetopon pliolepis sp. uov. 



In the genus Trimetopon Cope, I find that the hemipenis has a 

 simple sulcus spermaticus, and that the apex for a space on each side 

 of the sulcus is feebly calyculate. The rest of the surface is occupied 

 by spines which are in longitudinal series, and are largest opposite 

 the sulcus at the lower part of the hemipenis. The genus is then to 

 be regarded as one of the Colubrina^ allied to Contia. A single 

 species, the T. gracile Gthr., has been described hitherto, which is 

 also from Costa Rica. I only know it from the description and 

 figures of Giinther in the Annals and Magazine of Natural History 

 for 1872, p. 16. 



Char, specif. — Scales in seventeen rows, like the plates of the head 

 with iridescent refulgence and without fossse. Rostral plate not 

 visible from above ; internasals much wider than long; anterior bor- 

 der of frontal slightly convex forwards. Lateral border of frontal 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



shorter tlian the parietal border, which forms less than a rio;ht ano'le 

 with that of the opposite side. Loreal longer than high; oculars 

 1-1, the anterior well separated from frontal by superciliary. Tem- 

 porals 1-1; superior labials eight, fourth and fifth entering orbit, all 

 longer than high except the eighth. Inferior labials eight, fifth 

 largest, and in contact with postgenial. Postgenials half as long as 

 pregenials. Total length, 287 mm.; of tail, 76 mm. Gastrosteges, 

 154; anal 1-1; urosteges 69. 



Dark brown above, the scales with a paler, minutely speckled 

 center, except those of the third row. This, together with the more 

 restricted pale centers of the scales of the first and second rows, gives 

 the appearance of a dark lateral band, which tips the gastrosteges. 

 Below uniform yellow. A narrow yellow collar borders, and does 

 not cross the extremities of the parietal plates. Each upper labial 

 with a large yellow spot next the border; that at the top of the sixth 

 and front of the seventh has the effect of a postocular band. 



This species differs from the type in the scale formula. In the 

 T. gracile, the scales are in fifteen rows; the oculars are 1-2, and 

 there are but seven superior labials. The coloration is more ob- 

 scure. 



No. 451, San Jose, P. Biolley. 



Drymobius paucicarinatus sp. nov. 



Scales in seventeen rows, the five median only keeled, and that 

 faintly. Oculars 1-2 ; preocular not reaching frontal ; loreal sub- 

 quadrate, longer than high. Temporals 1-2; four and a half 

 scales bordering each parietal. Superior labials nine, fourth, fifth, 

 and sixth in orbit ; eighth and ninth longer than high. Eye large, 

 its diameter equaling length of muzzle from its border to the nostril, 

 and equaling a little over half of the iuterocular width ; equal also 

 length from rostral to frontal plate; equal length of frontal plate, 

 and exceeding a little the length of the common parietal suture. 

 Frontal plate wide in front, contracting rapidly posteriorly, lateral 

 borders very little concave. Ten inferior labials. Postgenials longer 

 than pregenials. The scales are not much narrowed, and those of 

 the sides are rather wide. Total length, 1,230 ram.; tail, 415 mm.; 

 length to canthus oris (axial) 26"5 mm. Gastrosteges 183; anal 

 1-1; urosteges, 127. 



Color above brown, without markings; below yellow; ends and a 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



narrow transverse line near base of gastrosteges, lead colored. Upper 

 lip, except upper parts of Nos. 2-3-4, 8 and 9, yellow. 



No. 116; La Candelaria, Bruno Carranza. 



This species is allied to tlie D. percarinatus Cope (Proceeds. 

 Amer. Philos. Soc, 1894, p. 344), but differs in the much smaller 

 number of more feebly keeled scales; in the shorter and wider head, 

 and in the coloration. 



Dr. Giinther has united under the head of the Dendrophidlinn 

 deudrophis (Dnjmobi)is dendropltis Schl., Fauna Centrali- Ameri- 

 cana, 1894), the species Driimobins cldoroficus and Crossa)dhera 

 melaiwtropis Cope. Bocourt has pointed out that the genus Dendro- 

 phidium differs from Drymohius in the entire anal plate and I have 

 not ft)und any variability in this respect in the specimens at my dis- 

 posal. In the D. dendroplds the eye is larger, its long diameter 

 exceeding the width of the superciliary and frontal plates together; 

 while in the species mentioned above, and the D. percarinatus and 

 D. rhombifer Pet., the diameter of the eye either equals the width of 

 those plates, or, more fi'equently is considerably less. The Crosmn- 

 thera mdanotropis further differs in the short occipital plates, whose 

 middle suture is considerably less than the diameter of the orbit, 

 while it is the same in the D. deiidropJm. 



Leptophis ultramarinus sp. uov. 



The relation of this species to those already known may be shown 

 in the following table. I mention here that a study of the species 

 shows that it is impossible to keep apart as a separate genus (P/ti7o- 

 thamnus) the species with smooth scales. 



I. Scales all smooth. 



Nine superior labials. Scales above blue tipped with golden ; 

 scuta and two inferior rows of scales golden with green bases ; no 

 stripes, L. ortonii Cope. 



II. Three median rows smooth, two or three on each side keeled. 

 Eight supralabials ; green, with black median lines on two or 



three dorsal rows of scales; pale oblique cross- lines on the anterior 

 half of the body, L. sargii Fisch. 



III. Five median dorsal rows keeled. 



Eight supralabials; above uniform ultramarine blue ; below and 

 one and a half rows of scales, with upper lip, silvery, 



L. ultramarinus Cope. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



IV. Eleven to thirteen rows of scales keeled. 

 Supralabials eight or nine; silvery with a wide blue dorsal band; 

 sometimes obscure in alcohol; smaller, L. alaetulla L. 



Supralabials nine ; robust ; uniform green ; smaller, 



L. occidentalis Gthr. 

 Supralabials nine ; green, head plates and scales all black bordered, 



L. marginatum Cope. 



Rupralabials nine; uniform green, the keels of the scales, except 



those of the median row, l)lack; size large, L. prcestans Cope. 



The L. ultramarinns is further characterized by the large size of 

 its eye, whose diameter equals the length of the muzzle to the rostral 

 plate, exclusive. The preocular reaches the frontal. Temporals 

 1-2, the anterior in contact with the inferior postocular only. Each 

 parietal is bounded by only three plates, with half of a median plate. 

 Seventh and eighth superior labials longer than deep. Nine infe- 

 rior labials, in contact with the genials up to the seventh. Post- 

 genials a little longer than pregenials. General form slender, tail 

 long, about one- third the total length, gastrosteges feebly angulated, 

 168; anal, 1-1; urosteges, 176. Total length, 1050 mm.; tail, 

 425 mm. 



Besides the colors above described there may be added, that the 

 preorbital labials are bordered with blue above, and the last two 

 labials are entirely blue. There are no stripes or lines of any kind. 



No. 108, PazoAzul; J. C. Zeledon. 



Pogonaspis ruficeps gen. et sp. nov. 



Char. gen. — Posterior maxillary tooth elongate, grooved; other 

 teeth numerous, small, present on the usual bones of the mouth. 

 Pupil round. Cephalic plates normal; two nasals, no loreal. One 

 pair of genials; anal plate and urosteges double. Scales smooth, 

 without apical fossa, extensively imbricate. In the hemipenis the 

 sulcus spermaticus is single, and the apex is calyculate. On the side 

 opposite the sulcus is a wide welt which is bordered by spines, whose 

 bases are connected by transverse flounces. Surface on each side of 

 welt coarsely spinous. 



This genus is probably more nearly allied to Tantilla than to any 

 other. The head of the only known species is rather more distinct 

 than is usual in that genus. The tail is probably elongate. It 

 diflers from TaidiUa in the large single genial plate. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Char, specif. — Rostral plate rounded obtuse, visible from above; 

 internasals small; prefrontals large, descending laterally and touching 

 second superior labial. Frontal elongate, slightly angulate in front, 

 acute posteriorly; parietals elongate. Nostril in posterior part of 

 prenasal ; postnasal elongate, separated from preocular by suture 

 between prefrontal and second labial. Oculars 1-2, preocular well 

 removed from frontal ; temporals 1-1, superior labials seven ; the 

 first bounds the postnasal below; the second the prefrontal and the 

 preocular; third and fourth enter orbit; fifth and sixth lower than 

 the large seventh. Inferior labials only six ; those of the first pair 

 in contact behind the symphyseal ; the fourth elongate, terminating 

 opposite the end of the long genial. Gastrosteges, 146; anal, 1-1; 

 urosteges, 20 + (a considerable part of the tail lost). Length to 

 vent, 223 mm. ; do. to rictus oris, 9 mm. 



Color in alcohol, above light brown, below yellow. INIedian dor- 

 sal row of scales deep brown; a narrow yellow line on the adjacent 

 borders of the third and fourth rows of scales which is bounded 

 above by a single dark brown row, and below by several rows with 

 dark brown centers, growing paler towards the gastrosteges. All 

 the colors are less conspicuous posteriorly. Upper surface of head 

 light reddish- brown, with a pale spot at the extremity of each 

 parietal plate. Upper lip yellow, with a black spot below eye ; 

 lower labial plates with brown borders; gular region unspotted. 



No. 141, Jimenez ; A. Alfaro. 



Enulius torquatus Giintlier. Leplocalamns loi-qiiatus Giinther. Aim. Mag. 

 Nat. Hist., 1872, p. 16. 



This specimen gives me the 0])portunity of examining the hemi- 

 ])enis of this genus. I find that it is undivided, but that the sulcus 

 is bifurcate near the extremity. The surface of the organ is marked 

 with longitudinal laminre only, and these are set with numerous small 

 spines to the apex. The larainre are separated by deep grooves. 



As already described by me, there are very few teeth in the mouth. 

 These consist of a few small ones at the posterior part of the maxil- 

 lary bone, with one or two near the junction of the palatine and 

 pterygoid, and a few on the anterior half of the dentary. The large 

 posterior tooth is incurved and flattened, and has a thin blade with a 

 cutting edge posteriorly. The groove is fine if present. This arrange- 

 ment reminds of the characters of the genus Elaehistodoir Reinhdt., of 



■^ Americau Naturalist, 1893. p. 477. 




206 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



which the sole species is found in the Paleotropical Realm. The few 

 teeth of Eniilius are, however, hetter developed than in Elnrhido- 

 don, whose real affinities are as yet uncertain. Ennlius is probably 

 allied to Scytale, since it not only enters the Scytalinic, as defined in 

 my paper on the characters of the hemipenis, but in the prominent 

 rostral plate it resembles the S. neovidii D. & B. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIIiADELPHIA 207 



July 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



July 10. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



EiEfhteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "Third Addition to a Knowledge of the Batra- 

 chia and Reptilia of Costa Rica," by E. D. Cope, was presented for 

 publication. 



July 17. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



July 24. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



The death of Samuel L. Smedley, July 21, 1894, was announced. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "Patella Kermadecensis," by H. A. Pilsbry. 



"A Contribution to the Life History of the Allegheny Cave Rat, 

 Neotoma niagister Baird," by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



July 31. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




20'S PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



PATELLA KERMADECENSIS. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



In October, 1893, the writer received from E. W. Roper, Esq., of 

 Revere, Mass., two specimens of a very large and ponderous species 

 of Patella, which Mr. Roper had obtained from a New Zealand col- 

 lector, to whom they had been brought from the Kerraadec Islands. 



Upon corapai'iug these shells with the collection of Patellidte in the 

 Museum of the Academy, and with the recent monograph of the 

 group in the Manual of Conchology, it became evident that they 

 represented an undescribed species. At Mr. Roper's request, a brief 

 description was prepared for publication, which some months later 

 appeared in the "Nautilus," under the name Patella kennadecensis. 

 After this description was printed, but before the number containing 

 it was generally distributed, the writer (in his capacity as Editor of 

 the "Nautilus"), received a description of the same species, under 

 the same name, from Dr. Wm. H. Dall, the distinguished malacolo- 

 gist of the National Museum. As Ball's specimens are more de- 

 pressed than those described by myself, and his series includes young 

 shells preserving the sculpture, I have therefore, quoted his descrip- 

 tion in full below, and have reproduced drawings of his type, kindly 

 supplied by him, on plate VII. 



Some time previous to the publication of the original description, 

 Mr. Geo. W. Taylor of Victoria, B. C, a gentleman who has de- 

 voted special attention to the Patellidtu, received specimens of the 

 same species, apparently from the same original source. He prepared 

 a description of them, but not being thoroughly satisfied of the 

 novelty of the form, delayed publication.' 



The species has also been noticed by Mr. John Brazier, well-known 

 for his life-long labors on the Australian mollusca. Mr. Brazier 

 formed a theory that these limpets were not from the Kerraadec Is- 

 lands, but from South Africa ; and as the specific name kermadecen- 



' Mr. Taylor submitted one of his young shells of this species to the junior 

 editor of the "Nautilus," who showed it to me. I did not recognize in it the 

 /'. kermadeccnsis, so ditlerent are the young from the ponderous, corroded adult 

 shells which alone I had seen. 




1894.] NATUllAf. SCIENCKS OF PHILADEIjPHIA. 209 



si.< would in that case be a misnomer, he proposed to re-narae the 

 form Patella Pihhryi Brazier.' Since Mr. Brazier has given no 

 proof whatever in support of his hypothesis, and as we have every 

 reason to believe it without foundation in fact, the necessity for this 

 proposed change of name is not apparent. 



In support of the original statement that P. kermadecensis inhabits 

 the Kermadec Islands, I am now tible to quote the following passages 

 from a letter' received from my friend Charles Hedley, of the Aus- 

 tralian Museum: — 



"There can be no doubt that it [P. kermadecensis'] really inhabits 

 the Kermadecs. 



" Mr. Charles Spencer, of Auckland, a leading New Zealand 

 collector, has just given me a most circumstantial account of it. He 

 says a great number were collected at the orders and by the crew of 

 Capt. Fairchild, of the government steamer " Hinemoa," while on an 

 official visit to Raoul, or Sunday Island, the principal island of the 

 group. Most of these passed into the hands of Mr. Eric Craig, a 

 natural history dealer of Auckland, who distributed them to various 

 correspondents throughout the world." 



The literarv history of this species is thus seen to have been much 

 more extensively exploited than its natural history. The references 

 to the books are as follows: — 



Patella (Sctdellastra) kermadecensis Pilsbrv, The Nautilus, vii, 

 p. 106 (Feb. 1894). 



Patella kermadecensis Taylor, tout, cit., p. 142. 



Patella kermaderensix Dall, MS., Jan. 1894. 



Patella pilsbryi Brazier, Abstract of Proc. Linn. Soc. , N. S. Wales, 

 meeting of April 25, 1894, p. iii. 



P. kermadecensis may be compared with two previously described 

 species, P. yigantea Lesson, and P. pica Reeve. The former is, I do 

 not doubt, quite distinct. The original description, by which alone 

 it is known, is as follows : — 



''Patelle Gigantesque. Patella gigantea Less.— Cette coquille 

 tres-fruste en dessus n'avait pas moins de 7 pouces de longueur sur 5 

 de largeur. Sa forme est massive, tres-epaisse, oval aire, convexe, 

 a sommet submedian, a limbe ovale allonge, plus dilate en arriere. 

 L' animal doit etre enorme', car il laisse a la voiite de la face interne 



- Abstract of Proc. Linn. Soc, N. S. WalcH, April 25, 1894, p. iii. 

 ■' Written under date of June IS, 1894. 



15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



une impression tres marquee, que borde une profoude depression en 

 fer u cheval. Le limbe est simple, epais. L'interieur est lisse, 

 blancbatre, avec le fond rougeatre. Sa i'nce superieure etait rougee 

 et couverte de tubes de serpules. 



" Nous ti'ouvames cette graude coquille jetee sur les rochers de 

 corail de I'ile de Borabora, dans I'arcbipel de la Societe. "* 



The dimensions given by Lesson, 5x7 inches, indicate a much more 

 oblong shell than any known specimens of kermadecensis, and the 

 coloring of the interior differs also. The difference in outline may 

 be most readily appreciated by plotting an ovate contour with the 

 axes 5x7 inches, and comparing with a contour of kennadecends. 



P. pica Reeve, if it is the same as P. kennadecensis, is a very 

 young specimen. The description and illustrations may be found in 

 Reeve's Conchologia Iconica, vol. viii, pi. xix, figs. 45 a-c. The 

 type, if still preserved, is in the British Museum, and should be 

 compared with young specimens of kermadecensis of the same size. 



The types of P. kermadecensis may be described as follows : — 



Shell large, thick and heavy ; round-ovate, slightly narrowed in 

 front, broadly rounded behind, conical, the apex central. Altitude 

 of cone nearly equal to half the breadth of the base, but decidedly 

 less than half the length; slopes straight. Surface dull and much 

 corroded by various parasitic growths, calcareous alga3, and young 

 Patellas, apparently of the same species, leaving but little of the 

 original sculpture, which seems to have consisted of numerous rather 

 low, radiating ribs, the interspaces and ribs covered with a secondary 

 sculpture of radial riblets. 



Interior whitish, more or less tinted with gray or dull reddish; 

 the muscle impression and the edge of the shell either white or deep 

 salmon colored. Border of shell slightly crenulated by tlie external 

 sculpture. Muscle-impression strongly marked, roughened, and 

 either impressed, or thickened and like a shelf or terrace. 



Dimensions of tAVO specimens: — 



Length 186, breadth 116, altitude 55 ram. 



119.5, " 104, " 50 " 



These siiells are decidedly more elevated than the examples in the 

 collection of Mr. Taylor, who writes as follows : — 



" My suite of kermadecensis consists of two full-grown shells and a 



' Voy. de lii Coquille, Zool., II, p. 423, 1830. Sec, also, /'. crassa Lesson, ibid., 

 p. 413, .said to be from New .South Wales. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



"series of twelve others rauging from 75 mm. dowu to 6 mm. in leiigtli. 

 The large ones are respectively 180 x 109 x 41 mm. and 130 x 109 x 

 84 mm., being both considerably flatter than the specimens described 

 by Mr. Pilsbry. 



' 'All my specimens are distinctly narrowed in front, and in this 

 particular the species differs essentially from P. patriarcha, which is 

 veiy round in outline. I have a specimen of patriarcha exactly the 

 same width as the two shells above mentioned, namely, 109 mm., 

 but its length is only 119 mm. Our species is further distinguished 

 by its sculpture from hoth pat r id re ha and mexicana — the ribs being 

 narrower and much more numerous than in patriarcha and decidedly 

 heavier than in mexicana. Every 5th or 6th rib in the adult shell 

 seems to be more prominent. ' ' ^ 



Dr. Wm. H. Dall's description of younger and less eroded exam- 

 ples than the types, here follows : — 



"Patella {Helcioniscus ?) kermadecensis. Soft parts unknown, but 

 the aspect of the shell is that of a Heldoniscus." 



"Shell large, depressed or only moderately elevated, porcellanous, 

 radiately sculptured, with the apex of the shell slightly anterior to 

 the center, erect, blunt (or eroded); color outside orange-yellow, 

 sometimes more or less scorched with purplish- black, obscurely con- 

 centric or radiating in its disposition, frequently asymmetrical ; in- 

 side polished opaque-white, cream color, or even orange color, with a 

 very narrow colored margin of orange, white, or black, following the 

 tint of the exterior ; the muscular impressions not polished, sometimes 

 darker orange than the rest, the enclosed area usually much the same 

 color as that outside the scars, but sometimes lighter or with faint 

 brown or flesh colored stains irregularly distributed ; muscular scars 

 catenate, not symmetrical, with about seven segments on each side ; 

 an obscure line, probably indicating the scope of the mantle is visi- 

 ble within the colored margin and this is emphasized to the left of 

 nnd in front of the head, where a strongly marked sinus extends to- 

 ward the apex close to and in front of the left arm of the pedal scar 

 and ceasing at the junction of the latter with the scar of the mantle 

 over the head ; this is distinctly indicated in all the specimens but is 

 less prominent in the younger specimens, and recalls the sinus of 

 Gadiniii though on a much larger scale; the margin of the shell is 

 rendered slightly irregular by the sculpture, and is, as usual, some- 



5 Nautilus, April, 1894, p. 142. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



what more so in the young than in the adult; external sculpture of 

 small, somewhat irregular rounded riblets, with equal or wider inter- 

 spaces, each third (fourth, fifth or sixth) riblet being somewhat larger 

 and more elevated than the others and often duplex; of these larger 

 ribs there are twenty or less on each side; all the ribs are normally 

 rounded, and except where obviously broken by accidents due to 

 exigencies of growth, do not appear scaly or nodulous, though some- 

 times more or less keeled ; basal outline, apart from sculptural crenu- 

 lations, approximately oval, the anterior always narrower than the 

 posterior end. Lon. of shell 135; Lat. 112; Alt. 33 mm. The 

 distance from the apex to the anterior margin, horizontally, 63 mm. 

 "Some specimens are over six inches in length and proportionately 

 solid. The species seems to be one of the largest limpets known. 

 Although the nearest land is New Zealand, the shell has none of the 

 aspect so characteristic of the limpets of that region, but recalls 

 rather those of East Africa and the China seas. Patella patriarcha 

 Pilsbry, has much the same general aspect, though the sculp- 

 ture is wholly different. Putelln harbara L. has the discrepancy 

 between the primary and secondary radii much greater, and the 

 margin consequently stellate. The sinus near the anterior left hand 

 margin is not confined to this species but may be found in many 

 Patellidie; still, few species have it so strongly emphasized as in 

 P. kermadecensis. Its origin is doubtful, and can be cleared up best 

 by a study of the living animal. The larger specimens are usually 

 badly eroded, only the younger ones show the surface well, and the 

 islands (we understand from Mr. Fulton, from whom the specimens 

 were received) are visited but once a year. These circumstances 

 may account for the overlooking of so large a shell by untrained 

 collectors." 



Explanation of Plates. 

 Plate VII. 



(Illustrating Dr. W. H. Dall's description of examples in National 

 Museum Collection). 



Fig. 1. P. kentiadeceiisis, dorsal aspect. 



Fig. 2. P. kermadece)ims, ventral aspect. 



Plate VIII. 



Dorsal and lateral views of type specimen of /*. kmiKidecemis, 

 nearlv natural size. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 218 



A CONTRIBUTION TO THE LIFE HISTORY OF THE ALLEGHENY CAVE 

 RAT, NEOTOMA MAGISTER Baird. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



In 1857, Prof. S. F. Baird described a fossil Neotoma from the bone 

 caves of Pennsylvania in a final paragraph under caption of Neotoma 

 occidentalis, on page 498 of his work on the Mammals of North 

 America. It reads : "The bone caves of Pennsylvania have furnished 

 me with several lower jaws of a fossil Neotoma considerably larger 

 than the largest specimen even of any recent species which I have 

 seen. The body could not have been less than twelve inches in 

 length ; it differs from the others in the wider and more massive 

 molars, the lobes of which are all more nearly equal than in the rest, 

 and all rounded, not angular. The inner and outer sides of the 

 molars are very nearly symmetrical, and the indentations or folds of 

 nearly equal depth. The axis of the condyloid process is quite ob- 

 lique, and the condyle below the level of the coronoid. The species 

 may be called N magister." 



In 1893 Mr. Witmer Stone received two specimens of a cave rat 

 in the flesh from South Mountain, Cumberland County, Pennsylva- 

 nia, taken at an elevation of 2,000 feet, at a point known as Lewis's 

 Rocks, about six miles from the village of Pine Grove in the same 

 county. These he described' under the name Neotoma pennsylvaniea, 

 making no comparisons in the description lietween his new species 

 and N. magister, the type specimens of which came from a valley cave 

 about 20 miles distant from Lewis's Cave. Since then a large series 

 of "fossil" specimens of N. magister, included among the complete 

 collections from Hartman's and Durham Caves, and on which Prof. 

 Joseph Leidy based his paper on "Fossils in Caves and Crevices of 

 the Limestone Rocks of Pennsylvania," - have been found stowed away 

 in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Among them 

 is a mandible of N. magister, labeled from " Harrisburg Cave," pre- 

 sented by the Smithsonian Institution, and no doubt from the type 

 lot on which Baird based his original notice of magister. Besides 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., 189:5. \>. Hi. 

 2 Eep. Penna. Geoi. Surv., 1887, pp. 1-20. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



these the Academy possesses another collection from Hartman's Cave, 

 made last year by Mr. H. C. Mercer during his i-e-exploratiou of 

 that cave,^ and containing among others the only extant cranium of 

 magistey in which the nasal bones are intact. There are also two 

 alcoholic specimens of a cave rat from Wythe Co., Virginia, col- 

 lected in 1868 by Prof. E. D. Cope. These, together with Mr. 

 Stone's types of N. pennsylvanica, two stuffed skins of the same from 

 the Pennsylvania Alleghenies, and an alcoholic specimen shown me 

 from Mammoth Cave, Kentucky, by Mr. G. S. Miller, form the 

 basis of my examinations respecting the relationships, distribution, 

 and probal)le identity of magister and pennsylvanica. Prof Leidy 

 has enumerated the entire collections from these caves, among which 

 he records " 92 mandibular rami, 13 pairs of upper maxilhe, numer- 

 ous limb-bones," etc., of " Neotoma fioridana,'^ which, he states, 

 appear to accord with similar remains referred by Prof. Baird to a 

 supposed extinct* species with the name of Neotoma magister." Most 

 of these still exist in the Academy. The Durham Cave material is 

 more scanty, but includes a more complete cranium (No. 8,542) than 

 any from the Stroudsburg Cave. This cranium lacks nasals, ptery- 

 goids, right squamosal, malar, and occipital bones, and is from a rat 

 hardly one year old. 



The subjoined table of measurements, in millimeters, of the best 

 of this material, together with those of N. fioridana, kindly furnished 

 me by Messrs, H. H. & C. S. Brimley, may be considered ample 

 enough for a critical comparison between the forms in question: — 



3 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1894, p. f)6. 

 * Italics mine. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



215 



•(s.iniom .lo.woi) 



ilUMw ((KtutJH 



^ 





s 



Si 



^ 



•to 



o 



■♦o 



o 



02 



H 



D 



CO 



-< 



P 



o 

 o 



-J! 



O 

 O 



OS 



lO 'O CO 



::< to CO 



CO «D 





■-fi CO cr 



^CA CO CO 



Il.JSUOQ 



■([.to.iajui 



•IIJ3U3I 1BS13>I 





li;si3u-oji<l!0;>o 



00 



CO 



OJ 



05 



CO 



O 00 



U3 

 go' 



05 



oo' 



^H ^H ^H C^ 







■(U.WO.ID 



luo.Tj) .n;3 



■looj 'H 



'Uvz 



O ^ — I 



•inSnai itijox 



O 115 



Th CO 



5^2 



o 

 Q 



Qi 

 p 



a 

 o 



n ti 9 i (D -^ y 



,rS s 



O in tfJ 3 -/J ;: .?" 



aSiasii 



S ^ =ti 3 = 3 



- cS 5 .S- j^ oj cS 



■ '•■.-«.'«.• 

 >: 3"? Ojt? O"? 



k, k, ^^ "< 





fl -■ o 

 cs So 



"^ a) 



.XI oS 



-= i'C 



S'^ >■ 



= 5 3 5 



'Sib'd > 



'C ^ a cs 



I C^^ ^' 



as M 



-Oh ^ 





a a 



o 



^ ^ 2 



■:2 -g 3 



^ r^ '^■ 



rs C r*! © 



.;i .3] .;; CC tr. 



u -^ ^^ ^ 



a> 3) (» 0) 



S S S !^ 

 £ ;^ ;xi lz| 



S § 



=S5: 



: <D '• 



■f: 



_i ? , b£^ -• 







- ^ . a, 

 .. o ^ ' 



:*^ Sr 



it^ ^ ^-^p^r^Qiri 



^ 2 ^ c3 ^ 



^^^^ 



•^t ■'^ 



^ a ^ ■ 





•2Vif=o 

 s o r: p ^ 



'15 <; rh; r^ M 



2w §"3 5 

 ■i "* .^i ^ 8 



<!?;<;<; 



f^ <J <^ 



■-^ — ^a^a^a^a 

 - »•=;.•- -.•- K-j^ :k..- 



<^ <^ <^ f^ 



V: O 



CH- O CM- 



•xag 



■ON 

 anSoi'B^'BQ 





<*<<)<l<<!j<!j<Ij 



<i <; < < <) 



Mcoi<iOJOt-50— !cgiiC>3J--S 



to IC >0 >0 »0 »0 lO O ^^ ^H i^ r-i — t 

 COCOCOCOCOCOCO— < Ol^— < 



t^ o eq <N 



1^ ^f* i-H 30 



O lO -t< o 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Prof. Baird's description of mar/ixter aims to distinguish it from 

 all forms of the genus known to him by its large size and massive, 

 rounded molars. So far as I have examined the species of Ncotoma 

 now known, and which number five times as many as were recognized 

 in Baird's day, I find maglder to be somewhat larger than any other. 

 It has a comparatively short tail, but the length and girth of body 

 considerably exceeds that of other species whose total length may 

 average more than in a series of magister. It is a satisfaction to thus 

 confirm the appropiiateness of Baird's specific name. As to its 

 cranial characters, magider presents us with the largest skulls I have 

 examined in this genus, but the comparative size and shape of the 

 molars as given by Baird cannot be said to be diagnostic. It is 

 probable when Prof. Baird made these comparisons he only possessed 

 specimens of old individuals, in which this peculiarity of the molars 

 is always apparent, and does not vary to any great extent among 

 specimens of N. fuscipes, floridami , or cinerea of same age, and is of 

 the same general character in all. The same may be said of the fold- 

 ing and indentations of the enamel in very old specimens. Younger 

 specimens of maglder, both fossilized and recent, show a very close 

 resemblance in tlieir molar dentition to fioridana and cinerea of 

 same age. The incisors and rostral portion of the skull in magider, 

 however, are much wider and heavier than in any other Neotoma I 

 have seen. Compared with N. Jioridari,a (to which magider both 

 physically and geographically shows the closest alliance) it may be 

 noted from the table of measurements that the recent and fossil crania 

 of the cave rat are much larger than in the wood rat. In super- 

 ficial proportions the difference is less apparent, but in the following 

 particulars their divergence is constant and specific : — 



1. The post- palatal notch of magider is acuminate, often sharply 

 so, at other times hearing in its aj>ex a minute, blunt point, 

 directed posteriorly ; in fioridana the post-palatal margin is broadly 

 and evenly rounded or nearly square cut between the opposing last 

 molars, the pterygoids being more divergent and i-elatively shorter. 

 2. In magider the slits separating the palatal from the sphenoid bones 

 are often nearly anchylosed ; in fioridana they are more widely sepa- 

 rated. 3. The interorbital depression and supraorbital ridges of the 

 frontals in younger specimens oi' magider are very decided ; in fioi'i- 

 daiia nearly obsolete. 4. As above stated, the greater relative 

 breadth of incisors, maxillaries, and njisals in magister. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



Externally, maglster is most conspicuously known from floridana 

 by its densely hairy and sharply bicolored tail. This member 

 is relatively shorter than in Jioridana, and the lateral divergence 

 of tlie longer hairs gives it a depressed appearance, which is almost 

 exactly repi-oduced in half-grown examples of the bushy tailed ash- 

 colored rat of the northern Rocky Mountains. The correlation of 

 development in this character and in the shorter ears, between ani- 

 mals of such widely separated but similar environments, both of 

 which trace their ancestry to progenitors inhabiting a serai- tropical 

 climate, is a significant fact. In body colors, magister is readily dis- 

 tinguished from florldana by its plumbeous grayness and lack of 

 brown above, by the fulvous areas of opposing sides of lower hind 

 neck reaching nearly across the throat, and by the blackish areas 

 around the eyes and at base of whiskers. 



It therefore appears that we have in N. magider a large cave rat, 

 quite distinct from the wood rat of the Gulf States, and which, so 

 far as existing remains are known to us at this date, is the same ani- 

 mal as N. pennsylvamca Stone. 



As it now stands, however, the case is a peculiar one. The evi- 

 dence in favor of making peiinsylvanica a synonym is conclusive so 

 far as it is based on known facts, but the impossibility of ascertaining 

 the perishable external characters of those individuals whose fossil- 

 ized remains formed the types of Prof, liaird's description, estab- 

 lishes a possibility that they represent an animal we would now 

 consider separable from the living form. Were the specific pecu- 

 liarities of the different members of the genus Neotoma based on 

 cranial characters of constant value, the identity of magister and 

 pennsylvaniea would be clearly estalilished l)y my examinations, 

 but as yet they have not been so distinguished by anatomists. 

 That it is probable good cranial characters can be formulated for 

 the species of this genus deserving recognition, I feel confident. On 

 this basis, as recently applied by Dr. Merriam,^ it is apparent to 

 me that ■pennsylvaniea will not stand as a specific name, nor can it, 

 from the very nature of the case, be a candidate for sub-specific 

 honors. 



The points confirmatory of the identity of fossilized and living 

 specimens of iV. magister, already demonstrated by cranial charac- 

 ters, may be stated: — 



■' Proc Biol. Sot-.. Wiisli., 1S94. i)]). 117-128. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



1. Recent date of fossil remains taken 1)1 contact or direct associa- 

 tion ivith Neotoma magister in. Pennsylvania, caves. — While no data 

 have been preserved as to the relative position in Hartman's Cave 

 of the extinct Dlcotyles pennsylvanicns and CaMoroidex ohioensis 

 witli respect to more recent remains, it is interesting to note that the 

 following mammals, yet existing in America, were found in associa- 

 tion and in precisely the same stages of recent or ancient preservation 

 in the shallow upper layer of the cave floor: — 



Lynx canadensis. Arviaolapinetorum. 



Lynx rufus. Sltomys aniericanus. 



Urocyon cinereo-argeuteus. Neotoma magister. 



Vtdpes pennsylvanicus. Arctomys monax. 



Canis luptis nnbilus. Sciurus niger cinereus. 



Mephitis mephitica. Sciurus carolinensis jyennsylvan icas 



Patorius erminens. Sciurus Imdsoniciis. 



Procyon lotor. Tamias striatus. 



Ursus amevicanus. Lepus sylvaticus. 



Scalops aquaticus. Lepus americaiius. 



Blarina talpoides. Biso^i bison. 



Adelonycteris fuscus. Alces americanus. 



Vespertilio gryphus. Kangifer caribou.. 



Castor fiber canadensis. Cariacus virginianus. 



Fiber zibethicus. Cervus canadensis. 



Erethizon dorsatus. Equus caballus. 



Mus decumanus. Homo sapiens. 



Arvicola pennsylvanica. 



2. The Sonoran derivation of the Genus Neotoma indicates its com- 

 paratively recent post-glacial advent into North Temperate latitudes. — 

 Dr. Coues has attempted to trace, by the scant evidence then known 

 to him, the probable derivation from magister of the four existing 

 species of Neotoma recognized in the jNIonograph of North American 

 Rodentia.'^ The evidence now had, exactly reverses his hypothesis. 



3. The presence of living N magister in the caves where fossilized 

 remains of same occur in various stages of preservation and antiquity. — 

 Magister does not now exist in the Carlisle valley cave. It may have 

 existed there in the early colonial days of Pennsylvania, or its life 

 there may date back to a time when the crests of South Mountain, 



« Mou. N. AmiT. Jiod., 1S77, 29, 30. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



now infested by it, were yet in the loosening grip of the ice age. Mr. 

 Paret writes me that he has no knowledge of the recent existence of 

 a cave rat in Hartman's Cave. I have been told that such an 

 animal is found among the cliiis and rocky crests of the Kittatinny 

 range, on the opposite side of the Delaware River, in AVarren Co. , 

 New Jersey. 



4. The lack of any trace of guaiviiir/ apoit the bones of mammals, 

 from Hartman\^ Cave, not now existing in America, as contrasted with 

 the uniformly rat-eaten condition of the bones of those knoivn to have 

 inhabited Pennsylvania in (he history of man. — The specimens of 

 Dicotyles pennsylvaniciis and Castoroides ohioensis from Hartman's 

 Cave are ungnawed, as is likewise the ramus of caribou there taken, 

 while those of the beaver, elk, and bison, animals recently extermi- 

 nated in Pennsylvania, show the unmistakable marks of a rat's 

 teeth. 



It, therefore, appears that the evidence, so far as we know it, tends 

 only to establish the identity of the fossil Neotoma of Baird with the 

 species now living in the same localities. On the other side the 

 argument is purely presumptive, and if we admit a distinction (no 

 differences being proven) between magister and pennsylvanica, the fos- 

 silized remains of foxes, wolves, beavers and other animals found in 

 association with the rat bones in the Carlisle and Stroudsburg caves 

 are as fully entitled to specific separation from their living Penn- 

 sylvania representatives as are the rats. No one, who would be un- 

 willing to thus follow such a precedent to its logical conclusion, can 

 consistently endorse the precedent. Had Prof Baird been aware of 

 the facts as we now know them, the question would never have arisen, 

 or if it had, would have been decided in the case of the rat as it 

 was decided in that of the fox and wolf and beaver. 



Habits and distribution of Neotoma magister. — I paid a visit to 

 Lewis's Rocks, the type locality of Mr. Stone's specimens of j)enn- 

 sylvanica, in the spring of 1893, for the purpose of obtaining some 

 knowledge of the animal's habits. The rocks lie at the top of the 

 mountain and form the culminating point of a rocky outcrop, topping 

 the ridge for a mile or more in this locality, and which at intervals 

 assumes a very rugged and castellated outline. The cave rats live 

 in the more inaccessible fissures and clefts of these rocks, selecting 

 for their dormitories those which are most secure from the approach 

 or entrance of the predaceous animals which abound in such situa- 




220 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



tions. The entrances and passageways to these abodes are loosely 

 barricaded with sticks, stones, leaves, feathers, bones, horse and cow 

 dropjjings, buttons, glass, tin, egg-shells, cai'tridge-cases, and other 

 cast- away evidences of the sojourn of men and animals in this spot. 

 Many of the sticks are three to four feet long and an inch in diam- 

 eter, and must have required the concerted strength of several rats to 

 move, and not a little ingenuity to convey up and over the precipitous 

 clefts to their resting-place. The bones were those of deer, smaller 

 carnivora, birds, and other animals brought thither by man and beast, 

 or which had sought refuge among the clefts to die. I was unable, 

 from the nature of their fastnesses, and lack of time and proper im- 

 plements, to penetrate their dormitories, and owing to tlie pilfering 

 foxes, lost the only specimens that got into my traps. One half- 

 grown rat was seen running among the rocks. It was lighter gray 

 than adult specimens. (Quantities of gnawed acorn hulls strewed 

 their hiding places, and were the chief evidences of the diet of this 

 species. These acorns grow abundantly on the scrub oaks, Qnercvs 

 banisteri, characteristic of these mountain tops. While its main 

 food supply is vegetable, no doubt these rats are omnivorous, and 

 take every opportunity to satisfy their carnivorous appetite. The 

 gnawed condition of the bones of recent mammalia found in Penn- 

 sylvania cave deposits, is, to my mind, almost solely due to the work 

 of this quadruped, a critical examination of these marks showing 

 not only their rodent origin, but that their size and character tit no 

 tooth so well as that of maglster. 



I am informed by Mr. H. C. Mercer (whose recent explorations of 

 Virginia caves has been ably outlined in a Bulletin of the Univer- 

 sity of Pennsylvania, dated July 4, 1894) that the Virginia cave 

 rats build a sub-globular nest of grass, etc., on the cave floor, and 

 that these are so well made internally as to resist considerable kick- 

 ing about. Prof. E. D. Cope, who secured the two specimens of 

 iii((.(/i.4er tabulated above, fi'om a cave in Wythe Co., Virginia, tells 

 me that these nests are placed at or near the sides of the cave, and 

 are often large enough to fill a bushel basket. 



The habitat of living Neoioma maglster cannot be verified by a 

 representative series of specimens from connected localities, but from 

 those now in possession, and the testimony of several of my corre- 

 spondents in Pennsylvania niid New Jersey, it is co-ordinate with the 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEL,PHIA. 221 



Alleuiieiiiau Fauna, as restricted by Dr. J. A. Allen,' and extends 

 northward toward the Canadian Fauna as far as Potter County, 

 Pennsylvania, in the west, and probably along the Blue Ridge to 

 the Delaware River. It is possible that it may be found in northern 

 New Jersey. 



The specimens of Neotoma taken on the Hudson River, by Jolm 

 G. Bell, and mentioned by Baird in his work on mammals, are, ap- 

 parently, from the table of measurements, large N. jioridana. 



It is doubtful if X macjider ever inhabited the State of New York, 

 and the specimens taken by Mr. Bell were probably imported in a 

 cargo of southern lumber. 



Probably the earliest reference to the Allegheny cave rat in 

 literature is made by the Swedish naturalist, Peter Kalm, in 1759, 

 in his book of Travels, where he quotes John Bartram, of Philadel- 

 phia, as authority for the existence of such an animal in the " Blue 

 Mountains." This reference is quoted by Pennant in his History 

 of Quadrupeds, page 441, under caption of "American Rat," as fol- 

 lows : " Mr. Bartram (in Kalm's Trav., ii, 48) mentions the rat, but 

 does not determine the species, which lives among the stones and 

 caverns in the Blue Mountains, far from mankind: comes out at 

 night, and makes a terrible noise, but in very severe weather keeps 

 silent within its holes." William Turton in his Systema Naturte 

 (1802, p. 80) enumerates an American rat to which he gives the 

 name Miu amerieanus. His description is mainly a quotation of 

 Pennant's account, above cited, of the same animal. Were not 

 Turton's binomial antedated by the Mm agrarius var. amerkanas of 

 Kerr (Syst. Nat., 1792, 231), now accepted as the first tenable name 

 for the eastejrn white- footed mouse, Sitomys amevicanwi. (Kerr), it 

 would have a strong claim, in the light of our present knowledge, to 

 precedence over Baird's specific name, magister. 



' Bull. Amcr. Mus. N. Hist.. 1892, pi. viii. 




^22 proceedings of the academy of [1894. 



August 7. 



Mr. John G. Rothermel iu the chair. 



Eleven persons present. 



A paper entitled "Further Notes on the Embryonic Whorls of 

 the Muricidiv.'," by Frank ('. Baker, was presented for pul)lication. 



August 14. 



Mr. Charues Morris in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



The death of George A. Binder, August 13, 1894, was announced. 



Au(iusT 21. 

 Mr. Louis Woolman in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publica- 

 tion : — 



"A New Su])family of Murine Rodents — the Neotomin?e — with 

 description of a New Genus and Species, and a Synopsis of the 

 Known Forms" by C Hart Merriam. 



"Descriptions of Four New Species and Two Subspecies of White- 

 Footed Mice from the United States and British Golumbia, " by 

 Samuel N. Rhoads. 



AuciUST 28. 

 Dr. C. Newlin Peirce in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled "Descriptions of Eight New Species of Pocket 

 Mice (Genus Perognathus)," by C. Hart Merriam, was presented for 

 publication. 



The following were ordered lo be printed: — 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



223 



FURTHER NOTES ON THE EMBRYONIC WHORLS OF THE 



MURICIDiE. 



BY FRANK C. BAKER. 



In 1890 I described iu these Proceedings (pp. 66-72) the em- 

 bryonic whorls of a number of species of this most interesting family; 

 and in the Proceedings of the Rochester Academy of Science (Vol. 1, 

 1891, pp. 129-133) I added several species to those already described. 

 From that time until a few months ago, I was unable to find perfect 

 material in any collection under my charge. Some mouths since, 

 however, I discovered perfect specimens of Murex troscheli and 

 Euplenra caudata, with the nuclei intact. Descriptions of these are 

 given below: — 



Murex troscheli, List-like. (Fig. 1.) 



The nucleus consists of two and a half smooth, glossy, hyaline 

 whorls, gradually increasing in size; a carina begins at the apex and 

 encircles the base of the whorls near the suture below; it terminates 



in the fourth spiral line of the after growth. 

 There is a considerable varix at the junction 

 of the nucleus with the after growth. The 

 whorls succeeding the nucleus are crossed by 

 four spiral, beaded lines; spinose varices be- 

 gin on the fourth whorl. 



The only species whose nucleus approaches 

 that of the present species is Murex pliciferus (Sowb. ), but that is 

 higher in proportion to its width and somewhat ditterently sha[)ed. 

 The number of whorls are the same iu both species. 



It may not be out of place to indicate here the species of which 

 the nuclei have been described and figured. Descriptions of these 

 may be found in the Proceedings spoken of above. The species 

 described are as follows : — 



Fig. 1. 



Murex acolopax, Dillw. 

 " occa, Sowb. 

 " frihulus, Linn. 

 " rertirostrls, Sowb. 



Murex recurvirostris, Sowb. 

 " .iimilis, Sowb. 

 " frijonl, Hidalgo. 

 (■ailleti, Petit. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Murex brevispina, Lam. Mnrcx (tdimcoxjylnosns. Beck. 



" nigrhpinosHS, Reeve. " brandaris, Linii. 



" ternispina, Lam. " rufns, Lam. 



" tenuispina, Lam. " pllclferas, Howl). 



" tribulus, Linn. " hfevlfro)i.^, Lam. 



Eupleura caudata, Say. (Fis. 2.) 



The nucleus of this species consists of one and a half semitrans- 

 parent, glossy whorls; there is no indication of a carina upon them; 

 the tip of the first whorl is immersed in the succeeding whorl and is 

 l)ent down to one side; the first half of the whorl, 

 looking at the lateral outline, is about half the 

 size of the portion succeeding it; the whorls are 

 well-rounded and full; the sculpture, consisting of 

 spiral and longitudinal lines, begins very faintly 

 on the latter part of the second whorl and gradually 

 ^' "' grows stronger as the shell increases in size; there 



are about fourteen longitudinal lines to each whorl, after leaving 

 the nucleus, which are crossed by two heavy spiral lines. 



I have seen foui- specimens of this species, and the characters ex- 

 pressed above appear to be tolerably constant. The present species is 

 the only one of this genus, which I have been able to examine. It 

 will be interesting to know just how variable or constant the nuclei 

 are in the different species. This is a field which needs a great 

 amount of original investigation. 




1894. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



A NEW SUBFAMILY OF MURINE RODENTS— THE NEOTOMINiE— WITH 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW GENUS AND SPECIES AND A SYNOPSIS 



OF THE KNOWN FORMS. 



BY DR. C. HART MERRIAM. 



A study of the rich collections of American Murine Rodents 

 brought together by the V. S. De])artment of Agriculture, shows 

 that the genus NeoUxma is one of a group of closely allied forms 

 which differ so radically from the tuberculate crowned Murines, with 

 which they have been commonly associated, that the propriety of 

 separating them as an independent subfamily seems evident. 



The unparalleled series of Mexican Rodents collected by Mr. E. 

 W. Nelson in connection with his work for the Division of Ornith- 

 ology and ^lammalogy of the U. 8. Department of Agriculture, 

 contains a large number of wood rats, several of which are not 

 properly referable to the genus Neotoma. Two of these were de- 

 scribed by me sometime ago, under the names Xenomys nelson i and 

 Neotoma alleni,^ the former being made the type of a new genus. 

 In the original account of Neotoma alleni attention was called to the 

 circumstance that the crown of the last lower molar is shaped like 

 the letter »S, instead of exhibiting two transverse loojis as usual in 

 the genus Neotoma, and it was remarked that this peculiarity might 

 prove worthy of subgeneric recognition (p. 1G7). In the course of 

 a subsequent study of the American wood rats, it was discovered that 

 the character in question, which is one of great value, is correlated 

 with a number of important cranial characters, making it obviously 

 undesirable to retain the animal longer in the genus Neotoma. 

 Anieghino has described and figured two related rodents from the 

 I'ampean Pliocene deposits near Villa de Lujan, in the province 

 of Buenos Ayres, which he has named Ptyssoplwnis elegana' and 

 Tretomyii atavn>i.^ His description of the former is based on the 

 broken ramus of the mandible of an apparently immatui-e indi- 



' Proc. Biological Soc. of Wasliiiigtou, VII, Sept. 1892, 150-lf)3 : lOT-KW. 



■^ ManiniifVros Fosiles do la licpiihlica Argeiitiua, por Floivntino Amcghino 

 iSHi), 111, 112, and pi. iv, figs. 1, 1^-. 



' llii.l.. Hit, 120, and pi. iv, fig. 16. 

 IG 




226 PliOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



vidual; that of the latter is based oii a fragment of the niaxillarv 

 containing the upper molar series. At first, I was inclined to regard 

 Ameghino's specimens of Ptxjssophorns (fig. le) and Tretomys (fig. 2) 

 as the lower and upper jaws of the same animal, and to look upon 

 my ' Neotoma' alleiii (fig. le) as congeneric therewith.^ But sub- 

 sequent study has convinced me that FfysiiophorKS and Tretomy)< are 

 probably distinct, though closely related genera, and that the living 

 species formerly described as N. alleni, together with the new siiecies 

 here named vetulm, represent a third genus of the same group. For 

 this genus I propose the name Hodomys. Hodomys is a more recent 

 type than Plyssophorus, less specialized than Xenomys, and more 

 ancient than Neotoma. 



So far as dental characters go, the group of genera under con- 

 sideration (Ptyssophorus, Tretomys, Hodomys, Xenomy.% and Neotoma) 

 presents nearly every important step in the evolution of the modern 

 genus Neotoma from the Cricetine series. Sigmodoii seems to be the 

 connecting link that bridges the gap between the tuberculate toothed 

 Murine subfamily Cricetinse and the flat topped prismatic crowned 

 Neotominie, by which name it seems proper to designate the new 

 subfamily, comprising the 5 genera above enumerated.' Sigmodon 

 should be looked upon as an ancestral rather than a contemporary 

 type. It is almost on the dividing line between the tuberculate and 

 flat crowned groups, and is probably on or near the trunk line 

 along which the Neotomime branched off from the tuberculate series. 

 It is evidently an ancient type, dating back to the Pliocene at least,'' 

 since which period it has not undergone very marked changes. In 

 early life Sigmodon has the outer ends of the loops elevated, forming 

 half tuberculate grinders, much as in the American Cricetines, but 

 the projecting loops are soon worn down, leaving flat grinding sur- 

 faces (fig. !(/). The loops, however, remain closely appressed or 

 even soldered together, never standing out freely as in Neotoma and 

 Arvieola. 



* While of this mind I fstated, in u rccont paper on the geiuis ^Veo/oii/a. that 

 the species of Wddd Kats havinit? the ciown of tlic last lower molar shaped like 

 the letter S. were transferred to the iicnna J'/ ]'sso/>/ior/is of Ameiihino ( I'roe. 

 Biol. Sou. Wash., IX, July 2, 1894, 117. 



■' It is i)r()hal)le that several other animals deserihed by Ameghino belong to 

 the Neolo»iincc — such as Boilirioniys and some of the species rel'erred to the 

 genera Oxymiclerus, Holochilus^'AnA ' Habhrotrix'' {=^Abrolhrix). 



^ Ameghino has figured an nndoul)ted Sigmodon from the Pam])ean Pliocene 

 (Mamif. Fos. .\rgeiitinos, pi. 4, fig. lit?), and has referred the same to Holnchilus 

 ~i'u/piiins iJclif. 




1894.] NATURAIj sciences of PiriLADEI^PHIA. 227 



Whatever the fiitui'e may show the exact genetic interrelations of 

 these animals to be, it is evident that Ptyssophorus is the more primi- 

 tive type; Tretomijs and Hod()mij>< seem to represent more advanced 

 stages in the evolution of the group, while Xenomys and Neotoma 

 are more specialized. Xeno)nys retains more primitive characters 

 than Neotoma, and consequently must be looked upon as nearer 

 Tretomys, with which it agrees closely in dental characters; on the 

 other hand, it is a far more specialized type than Neotoma and can in 

 noAvise be regarded as holding a place in the direct line of descent 

 between Ptyssophoms and Neotoma. 



The discovery of complete skulls of PtyssopJwri(s and Tretomys may 

 show that the line of generic separation should be drawn between 

 Pfys.-<ophon(S, on the one hand, and 'Tretomys and Xenomys on the 

 other; and believers in comprehensive genera may unite the two 

 latter as subgenera of a single genus, the relation of which to 

 Neotoma would be that of a specialized ancestral type to a modern- 

 ized type. 



The fact that of the living genera only a single species of Xenomys 

 and two of Hodomys have been discovered, while nearly thirty species 

 of Neotoma are known, is strong evidence that Hodomys and Xowmys 

 are survivors of the past, bridging over the gap between Ptyssophonis 

 and Neotoma, and that the latter genus is now at or near the height 

 of its development. 



Irrespective of the interrelations of these animals, it is evident 

 that, collectively, they form an important though not highly special- 

 ized subdivision of the Murine series, standing somewhat apart from 

 the others. Wliile they resemble the Arvicolinaj in some respects, 

 they differ in numerous important characters and cannot be regarded 

 as intermediate between the Arvicoliuic and Cricetiuce. On the con- 

 trary, the Neotomime and Arvicolinieseem to be independent oHshoots 

 from the half-tuberculate crowned Cricetines. Among the many ex- 

 cellent characters that serve to distinguish these two groups, the fol- 

 lowing are sufficient for present purposes: — 



Subfamily ARVICOLINiE. 



Cranium abruptly and strongly constricted immediately in front 

 of brain case, which is (juadrangular, projecting squarely into 

 orl)it ; orbital and temporal fossje well difi'erentiated ; jugal forming 

 half, or more than half, of outer side of zvgoma and always reach- 




228 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



ing forward more than half way from squamosal root to maxillary 

 plate; sagittal area subquadrate, usually broader than long; angular 

 process of mandible narrow, everted, lianiular, and thickened at end; 

 infracondylar notch low and deep. 



Subfamily NEOTOMIN^. 



Cranium not abruptly constricted in front of brain case, which is 

 oval, gradually narrowing into orbit ; orbital and temporal fossie 

 indistinguishable, without trace of separation ; jugal wholly poste- 

 rior, forming insignificant part of zygoma and never reaching for- 

 ward half-Avay from squamosal root to maxillary plate ; sagittal 

 area elongated, at least twice as long as broad ; angular process of 

 mandible broadly expanded vertically, inflected, not hamular, and 

 never thickened at end ; infra-condylar notch high and shallow. 



The dental characters of the Neotomiuic may be defined as fol- 

 lows: Molars !p prismatic, rooted or semi- rooted; the crowns fiat, 

 their sides continuously invested with enamel which is folded on 

 itself in such manner as to present on each side of the tooth a series 

 of salient loops, alternating with re-entrant angles or interspaces 

 (figs. 1-5). M ', -, and ^, each with three salient loops and two 

 re-entrant angles on outer side ; m ^ with three salient loops and 

 two re-entrant angles on inner side ;' m ^ and ^ each with two salient 

 loops and one re-entrant angle on inner side ; m ^ with three salient 

 loops and two re-entrant angles on outer side and four salient loops 

 and three re-entrant angles on inner side , with or without an ante- 

 rior lobe; m •_> (normally) with three salient and two re-entrant 

 angles on each side {^Ptyssophorus resembles Sir/modoii in having 

 the antero-external re-entrant angle small] ; m y variable, but 

 normally with two salient and one re-entrant angles on each side. 



The subfamily Neotominfe comprises the genera Neotonia, Xenoniys, 

 Hodoviys, TreUunys, and Ptyssophorm (and probably one or two 

 others). 



The Neotomina' may be distinguished from the Sigmodont ('rice- 

 tines by the following characters: — 



Molar crowns prismatic ; loops distant ; enamel folds of equal 

 thickness; crowns flat; antorbital vacuities without spine; palate 

 excavated between posterior molars Subfamily Neotominse. 



' In Neotonia desertonini and arizonce the antero-intenuil lodp is short and 

 shallow and becomes obsolete with wear (fig. 5a). 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



Molar crowns not pri.sniatit' ; loops closely appressed ; enamel 

 folds of unequal thickness, and rising at the free ends to form half 

 tubercles; antorbital vacuities with a blunt spine projecting forward 

 from top of outer side ; palate not excavated between posterior 



molars Sic/inodnn (fig. Id), Scapteromys, Holochilus(?), and 



other genera. 



In order to render the present account of these highl}^ interesting 

 rodents as complete and useful as possible, the genera Pty.'<mphori(s 

 and Trefomys are redefined, tlie new and closely allied genus 

 Hodomys is characterized (with reference to the moi-e specialized 

 genera Xenomys and Xentomu), and descriptions of all the known 

 species are added. 



Genus PTYSSOPHORUS Ameghino [Fossil], 



(Fig. 1, a, b, and c.) 



Plyssop/iojiis Ameghino, Mamiferos Fosiles Eepublica Argentina, 1889, 111, I12, 

 and pi. iv, figs. 1-lr. Tjqie Ptyssof^hoitis clci^aiis Ainegli.. IVom the Argentine 

 Republic. 



Crown of m ,; shaped like the letter S placed lengthwise of jaw; 

 projecting part of lower incisor nearly straight, slender, and formino- 



^li» 



Fig. 1. a, d, i\ Ph'ssop/iorus elegans (from Ameghino). 



a. Right ramus of mandible, outer side. 



b. Same, inner side (enlarged). 



c. ( "rowns of rigli t lower molars ( enlarged ). 



(/. Sigmodon hispidus, crowns of right lower molars. 

 e. Hodomys allcni, crowns of right lower molars. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



with its fellow a single sharp, almost spear-shaped, point for piercing; 

 symphysis of mandible long, straight or nearly straight, and usually 

 bent up at a sharp angle with ramus; the two posterior enamel folds 

 of m 1 and •> simple, reaching completely across the tooth from side 

 to side as in m .{ ; each re-entrant angle corresponding to a salient 

 loop on opposite side; investing enamel walls parallel, the included 

 dentine forming a continuous narrow band of equal breadth through- 

 out. 



Ptyssophoriis and Hodomys agree in the following characters : — 



Crown of m ,{ shaped like the letter S placed lengthwise of jaw; 

 projecting part of lower incisor nearly straight, slender, and forming 

 with its fellow a single sharp almost spear-shaped point for piercing; 

 symphysis of mandible long, straight or nearly straight, and usually 

 bent up at sharp angle with ramus. 



Ptyssophoriis and Ilodomi/s differ in the following characters: — 



Genus PTYSSOPHORUS Ameghino. 

 (Fig. Ic.) 



The two posterior enamel folds 

 of m 1 and m ^ simple, reach- 

 ing com})letely across the tooth 

 from side to side as in m :; ; each 



Genus HODOMYS nob. 

 (Fig. ]c.) 



All enamel folds of m i and 

 m 2 reaching only about half- 

 way across tooth ; each re-entrant 

 angle corresi)onding (at least in 



re-entrant angle corresponding to j young) to re-entrant angle of 

 a salient loop on opposite side ; opposite side ; investing enamel 

 investing enamel walls parallel, j walls alternately divaricating and 



the included dentine forming a 

 continuous narrow band of equal 

 breadth throughout. 



approximating, the included den- 

 tine broken into disconnected 

 parts. 



The principal differences between the lower molars of PtyssopJwriis 

 and those of Hodomys are, that in Ptyssophoriis most of the enamel 

 folds reach all the way across the tooth ; the enclosed dentine is of 

 nearly equal width throughout ; the anterior loop of the first molar 

 has an additional lobe, and the first and second external loops of the 

 middle molar are more crowded and less distinctly separated (much 

 as in Sifpnodon^). The only one of these differences of more than 



"^ The (Miaiiiol iwttcrii of tlic crowns of in -j and :! ol' /'/vss(>/>/ii>rt/s /■/f<^>{i)ts 

 (fig. Ir) is almost identical willi that of yoiuifj siiccinicns of sonic liviiis species 

 of Sifftuodnii (fifT. 1"'). l>nt the cliaracter oi' the teeth isdiflereiit : In S/o/i/odo/i 

 the crowns have liardly left the lulierciilate condition ; tlu' enamel is of uiie(|ual 

 thickness, tlie Ioojjs are closely aijpresscd, and the re-entrant anjjlcs are of super- 

 ficial depth vertically ; in J'/yssoplKiriis the crowns are truly prismatic, perfectly 

 flat on top, the loops widl spaced, and the re-entrant angles reach from crown to 

 alveolus. 




1894.] NATI'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



specific weight is the length of the enamel folds, a character appa- 

 rently due to anticiuity, representing an earlier and more primitive 

 stage in the evolution of the enamel pattern. In Ameghino's single 

 specimen the re-entrant angles or grooves between the folds extend 

 vertically from crown to alveolus, as in the young of Neotoma and 

 allied types. Whether they continue below the alveolus to the very 

 root of the tooth as in the Arvicolines, we are not informed; but the 

 characters of the jaw and molar crowns indicate that they do not. 

 The specimen is apparently immature and the teeth are probably 

 rooted or semi-rooted. 



Ptyssophorus elegans Aiiu'fihiiio. (Fig. 1, a, h, and c.) 



Ptvssophorus damans Anieghino, Mamiferos Fosiles Repub. Argentina, 1889, 

 111, 112. and pi. 4, tigs. 1, \c. 



Based on a fossil ramus of the mandible (right side) from the 

 Pampean Pliocene deposits near Villa de Lujan, Province of Buenos 

 Ay res. 



Specific characters. — Most of the characters have been given above 

 in the generic diagnosis and need not be repeated. The anterior 

 loop of m I has a lobe directed forward (see fig. 1c). Ameghino 

 states that the alveolar border is higher on the outer than inner side 

 of the jaw, and that m i is nearly as large as m _> and 3 together. 

 He gives the following measurements: length of molar series on 

 crowns, 5 mm.; on alveolus, (> ; distance from incisor to m 1, 5; 

 height of ramus at m ■{, 5; distance from front of incisor to back 

 of last molar, 12. The incisor is shoi't, but this may be an indi- 

 vidual peculiarity. The hinder part of the mandible is broken off, 

 so that the form of the angle and condylar ramus can only be in- 

 ferred from allied forms. 



Ameghino's figures are here reproduced (fig. 1, a, b, and e). 



Genus TRETOMYS Ameghino [Fossil]. 



(Fig. 2.) 



Tietoniys Anicgliinci, Main. Fos. Rcpiil). Argent.. 18.S9, 110. pi. 4. figs. 1(5 and 16(7. 

 Type Trrloiiiys ala7'ii.< Ameghino. IVoni Pampean I'lioi-ene, Argentine Repul)lic. 



Generic characters (based on Ameghino's figures and description 

 of part of maxillary bone including upper molar series, maxillary 

 root of zygoma, and upper incisor). — Number of enamel folds as 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



in other members of the subfamily (m ' with 

 three salient and two re-entrant loops on each 

 side ; ni ^ and -^ each with three salient and 

 two re-entrant loops on outer side and two 

 ,,. , salient and one re-entrant loop on inner side); 



liiiio). Left upper the re-entrant enamel folds from both sides 

 "|"l:»i'^- stopping on or very near median line of teeth, 



and directed jnward at nearly right angles to long axis of teeth, 

 instead of obliquely backward as in the other genera ; m - and '^ 

 subequal in size ; m ' slightly larger ; anterior loop of m ' pro- 

 jecting on inner side as far as middle and posterior loops, and falling 

 short of plane of other two on outer side (reversing the usual con- 

 dition); zygomatic root of maxillary reaching back to posterior part 

 of m ^ (anterior part in other genera). 



Tretomys atavus Aiiiesliiuo. (Fig. 2.) 



Trctonivs atiwiis Anie.uhiiio, ^Mnniilei-ds Fosiles Repiib. Argentina, ISSit, Hi), 

 120, pi. 4,'tigs. 10 unci U\a. 



Based on fossil fragment of maxillary bone containing molar 

 series, and upi)er incisor, from near city of ( -ordoba, Argentine 

 Republic. 



Specific characters. — Most of the characters have been given 

 above, in the generic diagnosis. The molars are implanted squarely 

 one in front of the other, the longitudinal axis of each tooth being 

 the same as that of the series collectively. In the other genera the 

 ui)per molars are implanted obliquely, the axis of m ^ and •> sloping 

 outward as well as backward from the axis of the series as a whole. 

 In Tretomys the posterior loop on the inner side and the anterior 

 loop on the outer side of ra ^ and •' are more largely developed 

 than in the other genera, the result being that on each side all 

 of the salient loops of the series end nearly on the same plane. 

 Ameghino's measurements of the molar series are: Series, 5 mm.; 

 m ', 2 mm.; m '^,1.6 mm.; m ■^ 1.4 mm. The upper incisor is 

 1 mm. broad and its face is very convex. 



Genus HODOMYS' nob. 

 (PI. IX, Figs. 1-4, 7, S, and Fig. H, a, />, e, (I, in text.) 



Type Ncolo))ia allcni Merriam, Troc. Biol. Soc. Wasli., VII. .Sept. 189;2, Il)7-l(i(» 

 (Type from Manzauillo, Mexico). 



9 Hodomys, from orfof road, and fivg mouse, in allusion to the road-making 

 liahit of both species. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



233 



Generic characters. — Upper molars much as in xVeotomo, '" hut 

 crowns of m ^ ami - with middle transverse loop divided hy 

 deepening of enamel fold on inner side; m ' and - with four 

 roots each ; m '^ with three roots ; lower molars with enamel folds 

 reaching about half- way across tooth ; m ^ shaped like letter S, 



Fig. 3. (x.5. ) a anil />. Hodnniys alloii. c and d. H. vctulux. 

 Xriioviys nclsoui. 

 a. c. r. Crowns of upper molars, b. d, f. Crowns of lower molars. 



and _/. 



with two salient and one re-entrant angle on each side, with a ten- 

 dency toward the subdivision of the antero- external loop by the 

 development of a notch (or vertical sulcus) on its convexity ; upper 

 incisors peculiarly excavated, apparently by the sharp point of the 

 lower ones, leaving a deep cavity behind the enamel face, which is 

 bordered laterally by the outer sides of the teeth. Cranium long 

 and narrow, much as in Neotoma pennsylvanica, only narrower ; 

 audital bullae small, abruptly narrowed anteriorly, the narrow part 

 produced obliquely inward, much as in Nectomys; inner side con- 

 spicuously excavated by the carotid canal and foramen, which is 

 considerably anterior to middle of bulla ; brain case narrow and 

 long; spheno- palatine vacuities closed; mandible with coronoid 

 notch more nearly vertical than horizontal ; condylar ramus high, 



'" Most of tlae accompanyins dcscri))! ion is drawn with reference to antithesis 

 with A'roloiiia. Prolmbly many of the characters a])ply to Pfyssoplioi-ux also, of 

 which animal, unfortunately, the craniinn and posterior part of the mandible 

 are unknown. 




234 



PROCEEDINGS OF TTTR ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



curved strongly upward and inward; angle produced backward 

 liehind plane of condyle, and strongly inflected ; ramus of mandible 

 thickened opposite molar teeth and abruptly narrowed and beveled 

 to incisors. 



The principal characters that separate Hodomys from Xenomys are 

 arranged antithetically in the following table: — 



XENOMYS. 



Posterior part of mandible 

 only moderately expanded, short 

 and cut away by deepening 

 of coronoid and infracondylar 

 notches (particularly the latter). 



Angular process decidedly an- 

 terior to plane of condyle. 



Condyle overtopping coronoid. 



Anterior root of coronoid cut- 

 ting plane of posterior loop of 

 m 2 ■ 



Horizontal ramus nearly 

 straight below molar series. 



Cranium short. 



Squamosal not reaching supra- 

 occipital. 



Audital bulht' enormously in- 

 flated, wheel- shaped, parallel, 

 broadest anteriorly. 



Audital bullie much longer 

 than molar series and covering 

 more than two-thirds distance 

 from foramen magnum to post- 

 palatal notch. 



Carotid canal inconspicuous, 

 far behind middle of bulla. 



Orbital borders of frontals 

 produced laterally, forming a 

 shelf- like bead over orbits. 



HODOMYS. 

 Posterior part of 



long. 



mandible 

 large, and broadly ex- 

 panded posteriorly; coronoid and 

 infracondylar notches relatively 

 shallow^ 



Angular process produced 

 backward behind plane of con- 

 dyle. 



Coronoid overtopping condyle. 



Anterior root of coronoid cut- 

 ting plane of anterior loop of 

 m 3- 



Horizontal ramus decidedly 

 convex downward below molar 

 series. 



Cranium long and narrow. 



Squamosal articulating unth 

 supraoccipital. 



Audital bullae very small, 

 subfusiform, abruptly narrowed 

 anteriorly and produced ob- 

 liquely forward toward median 

 line. 



Audital bullic much shorter 

 than molar series and covering 

 only about one-third distance 

 from foramen magnum to post- 

 palatal notch. 



Carotid canal conspicuous, 

 anterior to middle of bulla. 



Orbital borders of frontals 

 upturned, not projecting over 

 orbits. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



XENOMYS {Cont.). HODOMYS (Coiil.). 



Preniaxilla' produced ante- Premaxilhe without wiug-like 



riorly in wing-like exten.^ions extensions, 

 reaching beyond nasals. 



Pterygoid fossa? short- — as Pterygoid fossa^ long — twice 



broad as long. as long as broad. 



Postpalatal notch shorter than Postpalatal notch longer than 



basisphenoid. basisphenoid. 



Basioccipital very narrow. Basioccipital broad. 



Lower molar series curved Lower molar series straight or 



strongly outward anteriorly. nearly straight. 



Only two species of Hodomys are known. Both make extensive 

 inosculating runways among the Agaves and other plants on the 

 brushy side hills where they live. This habit is unknown in the 

 allied genera Xeotoma and Xenomys. Neotoma builds houses or 

 amasses large piles of sticks, cactus spines, or other rubbish ; 

 Xenomys lives in hollow trees ; Hodomys is not known to do either. 



Hodomys alleni (Meiriam). (PI. IX, figs. 1-4; and text fig. 3, a ami d.) 



Xfotonia alleni Merriain, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington. VII, Sept. 1892, 167-lti9- 

 (Typi- from Manzanillo, Mexico.) 



General characters. — Size large (larger than any known species of 

 Xrotoma) \ ears rather large; tail shorter than head and body, 

 blackish, sparsely haired, the anuulations and scales distinctly visible 

 on both sides. 



Color. — Upper parts from forehead to base of tail deep fulvous or 

 tawny-ferruginous ; nose and sides of face mouse- gray, tinged with 

 bluish in some specimens; under surface whitish, the tips of the hair 

 only being white, the plumbeous basal part showing through ; up- 

 per surfaces of feet whitish, more or less clouded with dusky ; tail 

 blackish all round. 



Cranial characters. — Skull very long and narrow ; angular ; 

 orbital margins of frontals nearly parallel and strongly upturned, 

 with tendency to develop an upturned point opposite middle of 

 orbital fossa; interparietal shield quadrate; nasals produced and 

 pointed anteriorly, truncate or emarginate posteriorly. (Principal 

 characters given under generic diagnosis and not repeated here. ) 



Measurementx of type (taken in flesh). — Total length, 472 mm; 

 tail vertebnt, 225; hind foot, 4(5; ear, 29 (in dry skin). 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Crania] measarementx of tijpe. — Total length, 54 ram ; basal 

 length, 4().5; basilar length of Hensel, 44; zygomatic breadth, 27; 

 upper molar series on crowns, 10. 



Hodomys vetulus sp. nov. (Text fig. 3, c and d.) 



Type from Tehuacan, Puebla, Mexico. No. 53,f)56 $ ad., U. S. 

 Nat. Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection. Collected 

 May 8, 1893, by E. W. Nelson. (Original number 4,784.) 



General cliaracter><. — This animal bears no close resemblance to 

 any known species except Hodomys alleni from Mazanillo (on the op- 

 posite side of Mexico), with which it shares the remarkable S-shaped 

 last lower molar, peculiar audital bulla;, closed sphenopalatine vacui- 

 ties, and many other characters. It is much smaller than alleni, has 

 a bicolor instead of concolor tail, white instead of dusky hind feet, 

 and diifers also in cranial characters. 



Color. — Upper parts dull fulvous from point between eyes to rump, 

 plentifully mixed with black hairs; face gray; fore and hind i'eet 

 white ; tail bicolor, blackish above, soiled white beneath ; under 

 parts whitish, clouded from plumbeous under fur and washed with 

 dull fulvous on sides of belly (and in one specimen on breast also). 



Cranial characters. — Skull similar to that of Hodomys (dleni, but 

 smaller, shorter, less angular, and differing further in the following 

 characters: rostrum and nasals shorter ; nasals narrower posteriorly; 

 interparietal shield lass quadrate and more elongated transversely ; 

 incisive foramina shorter (falling considerably short of plane of m ' ) ; 

 palate proportionally longer ; audital bulhe smaller; frontals broader 

 posteriorly and less upturned along orbital margins ; mandible less 

 expanded posterioidy. 



Dental characters. — Similar to H. alleni, but m i broader and 

 shorter; the antero- external loop larger; postero- internal loop less 

 completely divided ; m -j broader and shorter ; more perfectly 

 S-shaped, and without trace of antero-external sulcus. 



il/m.syn-ewuwys (taken in flesh). — Type: Total length, 3-^0 mm ; tail 

 vertebra}, 106; hind foot, 38. Ear from anterior base, 29 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 4 specimens from type locality : 

 Total length, 365; tail vertebne, 163; hind foot, 38. 



Cranial measurements of type. — Total length, 47; basal length, 41; 

 basilar length of Hensel, 39; zygomatic breadth, 25 ; upper molar 

 series on crowns, 9. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



Mr. Nelson states that this species is rather common about the 

 foot of the low cliHs and rocky ledges on the hillsides east of Te- 

 huacau, and that it lives in dense patches of Agave. He says : "It 

 has the habit of making roads about its haunts, very much after the 

 nuuiner of X. alleni. Well-defined trails were found leading along 

 the hillside from rock to rock or to the cover of Agave patches, and 

 betAveen neighboring groups of these plants. Under the shelter of 

 a maguey patch a network of trails could be frequently found by 

 forcing ones way among the spiny leaves. Like A", alleni, these 

 animals did not take grain bait, and were caught by placing traps 

 in their trails. No signs of the nest building habit, so common in 

 the genus Xeotoma, were observed." 



Genus XENOMYS Merriam. 

 (PI. IX, figs. lO-lo; and text lig. 8, e and/, and fig. 4.) 



A't'/iomrs Merriam, Pmc. Biol Soc. Washiugtou, VII, Sept. l.S<)2, 150-103 (Type 

 fr(ini HaeieuiUi Magdaleua, Coliina, ^Mexico). 



Generic characters. — Skull murine; short; audital bulla; greatly 

 enlarged and inflated, broader anteriorly than posteriorly, wheel- 

 shaped, parallel, carotid foramen posterior to middle of bulla and 

 inconspicuous ; squamosal not reaching supraoccipital but ending 

 anterior to plane of auditory meatus, except the slender posterior 

 spicule which reaches over meatus to mastoid ; orbital margins of 

 frontals produced laterally forming projecting supraorbital beads ; 

 lachrymals large ; interparietal large and transversely elongated ; 

 premaxilloe produced anteriorly forming a wing-like extension on 

 each side of anterior nares; angle of mandible short, moderately 

 expanded vertically, inflected; condylar ramus long and high, over- 

 topping coronoid process ; molars large and heavy ; tiaily rooted 

 (upper with three roots each; lower with two roots each); crowns 

 prismatic, made up of broadly rounded alternating salient loops and 

 open re-entrant angles or interspaces; crown of m ;^, shaped in 

 general like letter S but somewhat angular (fig. 4j. 



Externally, Xenomys resembles a sitiall, highly colored wood rat, 

 with rather soft pelage and a large whitish spot over each eye. The 

 tail is nearly as long as the head and body. Nothing is known of 

 the habits of these animals, except that they are nocturual and live 

 in hollow trees. 



Xenomij.i agrees with Hodomys in haviug the mandibular symphysis 

 rather long, straight and u[)turned ; the condylar ramus very long, 




^38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



and curving strongly upward and inward; the coronoid notch nearly 

 vertical; the angle inflected (but not produced backward so far as 

 in Hodomi/s) ; the incisors slender, meeting in a single sharp point; 

 the molars very large; and m ;^, shaped like the letter S. Xoionuis 

 differs from Hodomij.-^ in having the mandil)le greatly reduced poste- 

 riorly; the condylar ramus longer and more slender, overt()p[)ing the 

 coronoid, and both coronoid and infracondylar notches larger at the 

 expense of the posterior part of the ramus, which is greatly reduced 

 thereby. In Xenomya the anterior base of the coronoid process 

 arises more anteriorly from the horizontal ramus, hiding the whole 

 of the last molar and posterior loop of the middle molar, while in 

 Hodoinys it arises further back, exposing the anterior loop of the 

 last molar. (In Ncotoma the line commonly falls between m 2 and 

 ;{ ; in Pti/ssophorus, according to Ameghino's figure, it apparently is 

 further back, exposing most of m 3.) 



Xenomys nelsoni Mcrriaiii. (PL IX, ligs. 10-13 ; and text tij;s. 3. f and /", and 

 fiS-4.) 

 Xenomys /ic/so/ii Mfrriani, Proc. Biol. Soc. Washington, VII, Sept. 1803, 161- 

 163. Typf from Hacienda Magdalena, Colinia, Mexieo. 



General chayacters. — Size about that of a half or two-thirds grown 

 rat, or nearly equaling Neotoma mexicana; tail a little shorter than 

 head and body, well haired, particularly above; face ornamented by 

 a distinct whitish spot over each eye and a less distinct one under 

 each ear; color of upper parts rich fulvous; under parts white; ears 

 about half as long as the head and nearly naked (sparsely clothed 

 with fine, inconspicuous hairs); whiskers reaching back to shoulders; 

 fur soft. 



Color. — Upper parts fulvous or tawny-rufous, palest on the head 

 and brightest over the rump, flanks, and hips; back sparsely mixed 

 with black-tipped hairs; an ill-defined dusky ring around each eye, 

 above which is a whitish spot about as large as the eye itself; a less 

 distinct whitish spot just below the inferior root of the ear; upper 

 lips white, the white color extending up on the cheeks more than 

 half-way to the eyes; sides of face below eyes and ears washed with 

 fulvous; whiskers blackish; tail concolor, dark undier-brown all 

 round ; up}jer surfaces of feet whitish , more or less clouded with 

 dusky (varying considerably in the three specimens); under parts 

 creamy white to the very roots of the hairs except along the sides 

 of the belly, where the basal part of the fur is plumbeous ; line of 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



239 



fleinarkation between colors of upper and lower parts everywhere 

 sharp and distinct. 



Cranial and dental characters. — Most of the cranial and dental 

 characters have been already given under the head of the genus 

 and need not l)e here repeated. The rostrum is short and the ascend- 

 ing branches of the premaxilhe hardly reach as far back as the nasals. 

 Molars large and broad ; m ^ more than half as broad as long and 



Fig. 4. A'eiw/iij's nelsoni Type. Upper and lower 

 molar crowns, (x 7.) 



curving outward anteriorly ; m j with anterior half bent strongly 

 outward, the anterior loop looking outward instead of forward; m y, 

 S-shaped, with a small and nearly closed triangle on outer side of 

 convexity, thus having an anterior loop projecting inward, a poste- 

 rior loop projecting outward, and a re-entrant angle or loop on each 

 side, the outer of which is the shallower and more posterior in posi- 

 tion ; both of the re-entrant angles are directed obliquely forward as 

 well as toward the opposite side of the tooth (for further details see 

 fig. 4). 



Measurement.-^ of type (taken in flesh). — Total length, 300 mm; 

 tail vertebrte, 143; hind foot, 30; ear 22 (in dry skin). 



Cranial measurements of type. — Total length, 40.5; basal length, 

 35; basilar length of Hensel, 33; zygomatic breadth, 21; upper molar 

 series on crowns, 8. 



Genus NEOTOMA Say and Ord. 



Neotoma Say and Ord, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., IV, pt. 2, 1825. 345, 346, 

 pl.s. XXI and XXII Type Mns ftoridana Ord, from eastern Florida. 



Generic characters.^^ — Crown of in 3 composed of two transverse 



" Tile character.s here given are selected with reference to antithesis with 

 P/]'ssop/ioriis, Hodoniys, and Xenoniys. 




240 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



loops (with the addition in rare cases of a narrow antero-external 

 h)op), never S-shaped (fig. 5); m ' and - witli middle loop un- 

 divided (reaching completely across tooth); molar series relatively 

 short ; condylar ramus low and directed obliquely backward ; coro- 

 noid notch horizontal or nearly so [nearly vertical in Xcnomys and 

 Hodo))iijs] ; angle of mandible only moderately inflected ; sym])hysis 

 relatively short and sloping strongly forward. 



The accompanying illustration (fig. 5) shows the two extremes 

 in pattern of m ' , and differences in the crowns of the other molars 

 also. The dominant type of m ' throughout the genus is similar 

 to that of N. tenuicauda (fig. 5, c), a member of the mexicana series. 



Fig. 5. a and r. Upper molar rrowiis. A and d. Lower molar crowns. 



a. h. NeoLoma deserloruni Merriani. Death Valley, t'alif., No. 34138. c?. 

 (xf). ) c. d. Neoloma tenuicauda Merriam. Sierra Nevada, Jalisco, Mexico. 

 45629 ?. Type, {x 5). 



Neotoma is not in any sense a highly specialized type, but it is a 

 very compact genus, its most divergent branches hardly meriting 

 subgeneric recognition. Some of its members point strongly toward 

 derivation from Hi)d(>iaij><, as may be seen in the iVecfo;/(//.s-like au- 

 dital bulhe and other cranial characters of Neoioma pennt^ylvanlca, 

 and in the high, upturned condyle of the ?uex-icau« group, but the 

 inmiediate antecedent forms leading up to Neotoma from lL)doniij.'<, 

 or some similar type, are not known. The oldest forms of which we 

 have any knowledge, those from the cave deposits of Missouri, Ken- 

 tucky, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, are fully modernized species of 

 NeofoiiKi ])roj)er. 



Of the living species, N. pennaylvanica may be regarded as the 

 most primitive, since it po.ssesses several characters, not shared by 

 the others, that jioint back to Hodoru.i/s. Moreover, poDisylviinlca is 

 more nearly intermediate between the two subgenera — Neotoma 

 proper and Teoiioma — than any other known species, indicating that 




1894.] NATITHAL SCIENCES OF PHIJ.ADELPHIA. 241 



the differentiation of the trunk line into these two groups proceeded 

 from a form at least very shuWar to pen Hsylvanica. X. penii.iijlvanica 

 resembles I{od(»ii>/s in the peculiar shape of the audital bulhc (which 

 are abruptly narrowed anteriorly), in the nearly closed spheno- pala- 

 tine vacuities, in the posterior production of the angle of the madible, 

 and in the strong inward and upward curvature of the condylar 

 ramus. It resembles Teonoma in the form of the sagittal area, which 

 is kite-shaped, narrow, sharply angular, broadest far back (on or 

 near plane of interparietal), whence its sides curve abruptly inward 

 and backward to the sides of the interparietal shield. It resembles 

 Teonoma further in the tendency to closure of the spheno-palatine 

 vacuities,^'-' the great length of the rostrum, and the presence of a 

 long trough-like depression which occupies the entire length of the 

 frontal and hinder part of the nasals. 



That the absence of the spheno-palatine vacuity is a primitive 

 character— or perhaps it would be better to say, that the presence of 

 a vacuity is a modern character — is indicated by the following facts: 

 (1 ) The ancestral genus Hodomijs has no vacuity ; (2) Xenomyx, an 

 early offshoot from the primitive Xeotomine stem, has very small 

 vacuities ; (3) Teonoma, an older type than Xeotoma proper, has the 

 vacuities closed or partly open ; (4) Xeotoma j)enni<ylva)iica, the least 

 differentiated known member of the modern genus, has the vacuities 

 partly closed ; and finally (5) some of the modernized species have 

 the vacuities closed in early life though fully open in the adult.''' 



In its geographic distribution the genus is restricted, so far as 

 known, to North America north of Dueiias, Guatemala.'* The spe- 

 cies are most numerous in Mexico and the southern United States. 

 The total number of species here recognized, including the subfossil 

 ^Y. nuu/isfc)-, is 22, in addition to which 10 subspecies are admitted. 

 It is probable that a few additional species will be added, and that 

 some of the members of the mexicana group will be reduced to sub- 

 specific rank. 



'- But there is this dittereiiee : The thin wins <»r lamella of hone whieli 

 closes or jKirtly eloses the vacuity in TcoiuDiia is derived wholly from the pala- 

 tine, wliile in X. poinsylvanica \t is made up almost equally'of palatine and 

 l)terygoi(l. In the latter species the suture between the palatine and pteryj^oid 

 moieties is on the plane of the suture i)etween the basispheuoid and presphenoid. 



'■' Allen has recently shown this to l)e the case m\Y. niicropus (Bull. Am. 

 Mus. Nat. Hi.st.. N. Y., VI, 1894, 23i»). 



'* The (iuatemala species (JS'./errii^i/wa Tomes) has not been seen by me and 

 may not be a true Neotorna. 



17 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



In 1848, J. E. Gray separated the bushy tailed from the round 

 tailed species, proposing the name Teoiioma for the former. In a 

 recent communication I adopted the name for a subgenus, and de- 

 fined the resulting two subgenera as follows: — 



Subgenus NEOTOMA Say and Ord, 1825. 



iXfoloma Say and Ord, .louru. Acad. Nat. Sci. I'liila., IV, pt. 2. 1825, 345, 316, 

 pi. XXI, XXII. Type Miisfloridana Ord, from eastern Florida. 



Tail commonly round, scant-haired and ta|)ering, but in one 

 species moderately bushy; hind feet small or moderate. 



Rostrum of moderate length, not more than one-third the length 

 of cranium; sagittal area usually rounded, the broadest })art always 

 considerably anterior to plane of interparietal, whence the sides curve 

 gradually backward to interparietal shield; spheno-palatine vacuities 

 always open. 



Subgenus TEONOMA Gray, 1843. 



Teoiioiiia Ciray. T>i,st Spef. ^lainin. IJritisli .Mu.scum, 1843, 117. Type. Xcotoma 

 cincrca druinmoiidi (Richardson), from the Rocky Mts. in lat. 57°X. 



Tail very large, bushy, and somewhat distichous, like a squirrel's; 

 hind feet very large. 



Rostrum much elongated, measuring more than one-third the total 

 length of cranium; posterior roots of zygomata widely s[)reading; 

 sagittal area long, narrow, and sharply angular, its broadest part 

 far back, ou or nearly on plane of anterior border of interparietal, 

 whence the sides bend abruptly back to interparietal shield; spheno- 

 palatine vacuities closed or open. 



In the same communication I proposed, for conveuieuce in arrang- 

 ing the species, to subdivide Neotoina [)roper into four minor groups, 

 "none of which is worthy of the distinction of subgeneric rank. 

 These groups may be desigiuited, from a typical species in each, as 

 follows: (lithe leucodon group; (2) the me.r/V'fn/f/ group ; (o)the 

 deaerfonuii group, and (4) the (irizoita group." 



In a recent paper on Cranial Varlatioiiii in ycotuina niicropas,^' 

 Dr. J. A. Allen criticises my use of the color of the teeth as a sub- 

 ordinate character, and goes on to state that the range of individual 

 variation in color in his series of X. niirropiis "covers the whole 

 range of variation for the genus." His subsequent remarks show 



15 Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., VI, Aug. 3, 1S!»4. 213. 244. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



a total mi.'^apprehension of my meaning, for instead of speaking of 

 the color of the teeth themselves he refers to the dirty coating on the 

 outside of the teeth. He says: "The black coloring consists to a 

 large extent of a superticial incrustation which tends to scale off in 

 flakes in the prepared skull, and its absence apparently may be due 

 sometimes to removal in the process of cleaning the skull for the 

 caliinet. In other words, the blackness is to some extent an acci- 

 dental or pathological condition, due probably more or less to the 

 particular character of the food or to the health of the animal." 

 But for this perverse interpretation of my very plain statement it 

 would not be necessary to explain that when I said "color of teeth 

 white or nearly white" I meant the teeth — the osteodentine and en- 

 amel — not the dirty deposit that sometimes collects on the outside of 

 the teeth. But after all, the peculiarity is one of little consequence 

 and was only mentioned by me after enumerating the characters by 

 which members of the leacodon'"^ group may be distinguished from 

 others. 



The following list of the 22 species and 10 subspecies recognized 

 by me contains under each name: (1) reference to the original de- 

 scription; (2) the principal synonymy; (.■>) the type locality; (4) the 

 known geographic distribution. 



Descripti(jns of the species are not added because they are included 

 in a more formal and fully illustrated revision of the genus which 

 will he published later. 



Neotoma leucodon .Mcriiam. 



ycoloiiia h'ltcndon Morriaiu, Proc Biol. Soc. Wash., IX, .Tuly :.', lsi)4, 120. 121. 



Type loculitij : San Luis Poto.si, Mexico. 



Geoijraphir distribution. — Upper part of Lower Sonoran Zone in 

 Central ^Mexico, from Berriozabal, Zacatecas, easterly to southern 

 San Luis Potosi, and tlience southeast to Perote, Vera Cruz. 



Neotoma latifrons ^Mciriam. 



.Wotuiiia la/ifroiis .Mcrriaiii. Proc. P>iol. Soc. Wasli., IX, .July 2, l,S!t4. 121. 



Type bmditij : Querendaro, ^lichoacan, Mexico. 

 Getx/raphic distrihidion. — Valley of Querendaro, south side of 

 Lake Cuitzeo, Michoacau, Mexico (range unknown.) 



"^ Named, as stated, after -^'. lcucudo)i, a central member of the group, not 

 because all the species have white teeth. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Neotoma micropus Baiid. 



Xeoldiiia nii( ropits Baird, Prou. Acad. Nat. Sci. I'hila., April, 1855. 333 (from 

 Charco E.scoudido, Taiiiaulipas.'" ) Mammals of N. Am., 1857, 492-495. Allen, 

 Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., N. Y., Ill, No. 2, June, 1891, 282-285. 



JVeotoina micropus caiiescens Allen, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., 111. No. 2, 

 June, 1891, 28.5-287 (from N. Beaver Creek, Pan Handle of Oklahoma). 



Type locality : Charco Escoudido,'' Tamaulipas, Mexico (100 kilo- 

 meters or H2 miles west of Matamoras, and 44 kilometers or 27 miles 

 south of Keyiiosa. ) 



Geographic distribution.— Eiiistern subdivision of Lower Sonoran 

 Zone from San Fernando, Tamaulipas, northward to the Pan Han- 

 dle of Oklahoma, and westward to the Staked Plains ; in the Rio 

 Grande Valley west to El Paso; and in the Pecos Valley to Eddy, 

 New Mexico. 



Neotoma baileyi Merriani. 



Neotoma haileyi Merriani, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., IX, .Inly 2, 1804, 123. 



Type locality : Valentine, Nebraska. 



Geographic distribntion. — Probably Great Plains subdivision of 

 Upper Sonoran Zone in southern South Dakota, Nebraska, and 

 Kansas. 



Neotoma floridana (Ord). 



Mas flondana (Jrd, Bull. Soe. Philomath, Dee. 1818, 181-182 



Type locality : Florida. 



Geographic distribution. — Austroriparian Fauna of South Atlan- 

 tic and Gulf Coasts and lower Mississippi Valley. 



Neotoma pennsylvanica Stone. 



Neoliiiiia pc-iiiisr/vanica Stone, Proe. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., Fel). 1.S93, Ki-lS. 



Type locality : South ^[ountain, Cumberland Co. , Pennsylvania. 



Geographic distribution. — Allegheny Mountain region of Pennsyl- 

 vania, and probably the whole of the southern Allegheuies; north to 

 southern New York. 



Neotoma magister Baird. 



Xcntiiina iiuiifislcr Baird. Mam. X. Am.. 1857, 498. 



Type locality: Bone Caves near Carlisle (between North and 

 South Mountains), Pennsylvania. 



'" Two specimens were mentioneil in the original description, an adult male 

 from Charco Escondido, and a veryyoun^i sjtecimen in jxior condition from Santa 

 Rosalia. Chihuahua. The ori^rinal desci-iption is hased wholly on the Charco 

 Hscondi<lo specinun, which, theri'fore, must l)e taken as the type of tlu' species. 

 The Santa Kusalia animal is somewhat ahi'rrant, as shown l)y additional specimens. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Geoi/raphic lUstrihufloit. — Pleistocene cave deposits of Pennsyl- 

 vania and Virginia. Remains assumed to belong to the same spe- 

 cies have been found in caves in Kentucky and in the Ozark Hills 

 of Missouri. 



Neotoma mexicana Bainl. 



.\< iiliiiiia ii/tA ii (i)/a Bainl, Proc. A<-a(l. Nat. Sci. Pliila.. VII, 1855, 333. 



Type locality: [Mountains] near Chihuahua, Mexico. 



Geoc/raphie distribntlon. — Hills and lower mountain slopes (usu- 

 ally pine covered) of Transition Zone in eastern New Mexico, 

 southwestern Texas (Davis Mountains to Paisano), and Chihuahua, 

 Mexico. 



Neotoma mexicana bullata Mcriiani. 



\eolo))ia ))uwiraiia hiiUaia Morriam, Proc. Hiul.Soc. Wasli.. IX. .Inly •!. 1894. 

 122-123. 



Type locality: Santa Catalina Mountains, Arizona. 

 Geographic didribidioji. — Known only from the Santa Catalina 

 ^lountains in southern Arizona. 



Neotoma pinetorum ."\hiiiam. 



Xt'o/oiiia (yiufloriim Mt'rriaiii, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wa.sli., VllI, .July 31, 1893, 111. 

 112. 



Type locality : San Francisco iNIountain, Arizona. 

 Geo(jraphie diMriJnitiou. — The pine covered plateau of Arizona 

 (Transition Zone). 



Neotoma tenuicauda Mcrriam. 



Xeolonia iciiuicaitda Merriani, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., \'II, Sept. 29, 1892, lt)9, 

 170. 



Type locality: North Slope of Sierra Nevada de Colima. 

 Geor/raphic distribution. — Sierra Nevada de Colima, Jalisco, 

 Mexico (probably in Transition Zone). 



Neotoma orizabae ^Nlerriam. 



Neotoma orizaha: Merriani, Proc Biol. Soc. Wash., IX, .July 2, 1894, 122. 



Type locality: Mt. Orizaba, Puebla, Mexico. 

 Genc/raphic diMribution. — Mt. Orizaba, Mt. Malinche, and Coft-e 

 de Perote, Mexico (probably in Transition Zone.) 



Neotoma fulviventer Merriam. 



Xfolnma fiilz'iz'eiitfr .Merriani, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., IX, July 2, 1894, 121, 

 122. 



Type locality: Toluca Valley, Mexico. 

 Geographic dixtrihution. — Tohica Valley, Mexico. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Neotoma torquata Ward. 



Xeo/oDia torquata Ward, Am. Naturalist, XXV. Feb. 1891. KiO. 161. 



Tijpe locality: [An abandoned tunnel] between Tetela del Volcan 

 and Zaeualpan Amilpas, ^Nlorelos, ^lexico. 



Geographic distribution.. — Mountains of the states of INIexico and 

 Morelos (south of the valleys of Mexico and Toluca). 



Neotoma ferruginea Toines. 



Neotoma ferruoinca Tomes, rr()<'. Zdol. Soc Londmi. ISOl, 282-284. 



Type locality: Duenas, Guatemala. 



Geographic distribution. — Region about Duenas, Guatemala. 

 Range unknown. 



Note. — I have not seen N. ferruginea; it may not belong here 

 at all. 



Neotoma fallax Mei-riam. 



.\,'otoiiia J'atlax Merriam, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., IX, .July 2, 1S94. 12.3, 124. 



Type locality: Gold Hill, Boulder Co., Colorado. 

 Geographic dutribufion.—Ki\steru base of Rocky Mountains in 

 Colorado (up to about 7,000 feet altitude, where it is replaced by 



N. orolestes). 



Neotoma bryanti Merriam. 



Neotoma lyryaiiti :\lcrnam. Am. Nat. XXI, No. 2, Fch. 1887, 191-li)3. 



Type locality: Cerros Island, Lower California. 

 Geographic distribution. — Cerros Island, Mexico (off Lower Cali- 

 fornia). 



Neotoma fuscipes Baird. 



Neot(>)}ia J'li.uipes (Cooper MS. ) Baird, Mam. N. Am. , 1857, 495, 490 ( from Peta- 

 1 lima, Calif. ). 



Neoto)iia jnojiocliroura Rhoads, Am. Naturalist, XXN'lll, .Tan. 1894, 67, ti8 

 (from Grants Pass, Josephine Co., ()regon). 



Neotoma spleudens True, Proc. U. S. Nat. Museum. XVIJ, No. 1006. 1, 2 

 [Author's separates issued June 27, 1894], (from Marin ('o., Calif. ). 



Ttjpe locality: Petaluma, Sonoma Co., California. 



Geographic distribution. — Coast region of (California and Oregon, 

 from a little south of ISIonterey Bay northward to the Columbia 

 River (Transition Zone). 



Neotoma fuscipes macrotis (Thomas). 



Neotoma macrotis Tluimas, Ann. and ^Fag. Nat. Hist., 6th ser., XII. Sept. 1S93, 

 234,235 (from Han Diego, California). 



Neotoma viacrulis simplex True, Proc. U. S. Nat. ^Museum, XVII, No. 1006, 2 

 [Author's separates issued June 27, 1894], (from Old Ft. Tejou, California). 



Type locality : San Diego, California. 




1894.] NATFKAI. SCTENC'ES OF IMI ir^ADELPHIA. 247 



Geoyrapliir disfrlbutioii. — C'oast region (includiug coast raugesj 

 of California, south of Monterey Bay (in u])per Sonoran and Transi- 

 tion Zones). 



Neotoma fuscipes streatori Mcrriaiu. 



\t<i/iiiiia /'us/'i/>,'s s/rfaliiri Mcrriaiii, Proc.Hiol. Soc. Wash.. IX. .Iiilv ;!. ls;(4 

 124. 



Type loealii tj : ("arbondale, Amador Co., California. 



GeograpJiic disfrllndloii. — West slope of Sierra Nevada in Cali- 

 fornia (including mountain region generally of northeast (California 

 except higher elevations.) Upper Sonoran and Tran.^ition Zones. 



Neotoma fuscipes dispar Mcn-iaiii. 



Xcofoiiia fi/S( ifyrs dispar AriM-riam. I^i'oc. Biol. Sue. Wash., IX, .Inly '.i, 1SH4 

 124. 12.'). 



Tijpe lomUtij : Lone Pine, Owens Valley, California. 



Geo(/rapltic didrlbiitiov. — East base of Sierra Nevada in Owens 

 Valley, California (and probably along western edge of Mohave 

 Desert also). Upper Sonoran Zone. 



Neotoma desertorum Mtrriain. 



\t(i/oijia di-s< ildiiini Merriain. rroc. Hiol. Sue. Wasli., IX, .Inly 2, ls94, 12."i, 

 12(i. 



Type locality. Furnace Creek, Death Valley, California. 



Geographic <Iidiihiif!o)i. — Mohave and Colorado Deserts and Sono- 

 ran deserts generally of eastern ( 'alifornia, Nevada, and western 

 Utah (north to East Humboldt \"alley, Nevada, and Kelton, 

 Utah.) Upper and lower Sonoran Zones. 



Neotoma desertorum sola ^lerriaui. 



Xeotoma desertorum sola Merriain, Proo. Biol. Soc. Wash., IX, July 2, 1894, 

 12(). 



Type locaUhj : San Emigdio, Kern Co., California. 

 Geof/rapliic didri/niflmi. — Head of San Joa(|uin Valley, Cali- 

 fornia. 



Neotoma intermedia Khoails. 



Xtnfoiiia iult-rincdia Khoads, Am. Xatiiralist, XXVIII, .Ian. 1, ls!i4, liil, TO. 

 (from Dulzura, San Diejio ('<i., Califiiniia ). 



Xcotouia cali/oi-nita Price, Pnu-. ( 'alif. Acad. Sci., 2d scr., III. .May !l, 1S!)4. l.')4- 

 I5(), pi. XI (from Bear N'allcy, San Benito Co.. California). 



Xcolonia intrr»icdia i;ilz'a Khoads, Am. Naturalist. XX^'III. .Ian. 1. ISiU. till 

 (from Banning. California). 



Xeoloma -•oiusia True, Proc. U. S, Xat. Museum, XVII. Xo. 1000, 2 [Author's 

 separates issued .lune 27th, 1S94]. (fromCarri/.o t!re(ik, San Diego (.'o., 

 California). 



Type locality: Dulzura, San Diego Co., California. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Geofiraphic distribution}. — The typical form inhabits the valleys 

 and lower slopes of the coast ranges of C'alifornia south of Monterey 

 Bay (specimens examined from Bear A^alley, San Benito Cb. ; 

 Priest Valley, Monterey Cb. ; San Luis Obispo; San Fernando; San 

 Bernardino Mt. and Valley; San Jacinto Valley, and Dulzura). 

 A slightly paler form (subspecies gilva Rhoads = venvsta True) in- 

 habits San Gorgonio Pass and the western edge of the Colorado 

 Desert (specimens examined from Whitewater Ranch, Palm Springs, 

 Cabazon, Carrizo Creek, Baregas Spring, and Vallecitas). Upper 

 Sonoran. 



Neotoma intermedia melanura Mcrriam. 



A'ro/(?ii/a i)itn-))t('dia iiirlaiiiira Mcrri:mi. Proc. Riol. Sor. Wash., IX, July 2, 

 1894, 13(), 127. 



Type locality: Ortiz, Sonora, Mexico. 



Geographic didrihition. — Sonora, Mexico, near west base of 

 Sierra Madre. Upper Sonoran. 



Neotoma intermedia albigula Hartley. 



Neotoma alhi<;-iihi Hartley, Pn.c. Cal. Acad. Sci., 2(1 ser.. Ill, May ft, 1894, 157- 

 159, pi. XII. 



Type locality: \'\Q\miy of Fort Lowell, Arizona. 

 Geographic didrlbution. — Lower Sonoran Zone in southern and 

 western Arizona. 



Neotoma intermedia angusticeps Merriam. 



Neotoma intermedia ano'iistirrps Merriam, Prcic. Binl. Sue. Wash., IX, .Tuly 2, 

 1894, 127. 



Type locality: S. W. corner Grant Co., New Mexico (only 4 

 miles from Mexican boundary). 



Geographic diMribntioii. — Southwestern New ^Mexico, and doubt- 

 less also adjacent valleys of N. W. Chihuahua, Mexico (in Lower 

 Sonoran Zone). 



Neotoma arizonae ]Merriani. 



Neotoma arizojiw Merriam, Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., VIII, July 31, 1893,110, 

 111. 



'(Neotoma lepida Thomas, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., fith ser., XII, Sept. 

 1893, 235 (from I' tab). 



Txjpe locality: Keama Canon, Apache Co., Arizona. 



Geographic didributioii. — Tusayan or Moki region in northeastern 

 Arizona, northwestern New Mexico, southeastern Utah, and prob- 

 ably southwestern Colorado. Sonoran. 




1894.] NATURAI, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Neotoma cinerea (Ord. ) 



■' .l/i/s cini-i;iis Ord. Guthrit-'s Geosrapliy. 2d km. Ed., II, 1815, 292" 

 (bast'd ((11 des(rii)ti<iii of Lewis and Clark, Paul Allen Ed., 1814, Vol. I, pp. 289, 

 290. ) 



Tiipe localiii/: Near Great Falls, Montana. 



Geor/vapkic dlstribHtlon. — Northern Rocky Mt. region in Transi- 

 tion and Boreal Zones, from Utah and Wyoming northward ; east to 

 Black Hills and plains of North Dakota west of JMissouri River; 

 west in southern British Columbia to Cascade Range, and south 

 throughout the Sierra Nevada to Mt. Whitney in southern Cali- 

 fornia. 



Neotoma cinerea occidentalis (Raird). 



Xt'o/uiita occidoila/is (Cooper MS.) Baird, I'roc. Aead. Nat. Sci. Pliila.. VII, 

 185.^. 335. 



Xi'olonia cinerea occidentalis Merriam, Mammals of Idalio, X. Am. Faiuui, 

 Xo. 5, Auk. 1891. .">8. 



T\\pe Jocalittj : Shoalwater Bay, Washington. 



Geof/rap]iic disti'ibutlon. — Pacific coast region of Oregon and 

 Washington and thence easterly over the lava beds to the Snake 

 Plains of east-central Idaho ( Transition and Upper Sonoran Zones). 



Neotoma cinerea drummondi (Richardson). 



Jfyo.iHS drmnniondii Rii-liardson, Zool. .lourii., Ill, 1828, 517, 518. 

 Neotoma dritniniondii Riehaidson, Fauna Bori>ali-Ani., 1829, 137-140. 



Type locality: Rocky Mts., British Columbia (lat. 57°). 



Geographic distribution. — Eastern British Columbia and adjacent 

 parts of western Canada north of the range of cinerea. Exact dis- 

 tribution unknown. Boreal (probably Hudsonian). 



Neotoma orolestes .Merriam. 



Xeotonia Ofolesles .Merriam, Prof. Riol. Soc. Wash., IX. July 2, 1894, 128. 



Tiipe loealiti/ : Saguache Valley (20 miles west of Saguache, Colo- 

 rado). 



Geographic distribution. — Rocky Mts. of Colorado and New 

 Mexico (southeast of range of X cinerea). Boreal. 




250 



HKOCKROINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1.S94. 



Species and Subspecies of Neotoma. 



leucodon 

 latifrons 

 niicropus 

 leucodou group -| haileyi 

 floridana 

 ])enusylvanica 

 ^ niagister 



mexicana 



hullata 

 pinetonini 

 tenuicauda 

 orizabai 

 fiilvi venter 

 fallax 

 fuscipes 



" ruacrotis 

 " streatori 

 ' ' dispar 

 bryauti 

 ? ferrugiuea^* 

 ^ ? torquata^'* 



Subgenus NEOTOINIA ^ mexicana group 



( desertorum 



desertorum group -^ intermedia 



sola 



nielanura 



albigula 



angusticeps 



arizonie group < arizonie 



.. 1 rnT-./^xT/^nT . cinerea group 



Suberenus TEONOINIA <^ & p 



cinerea 



" occidentalis 

 " drumniondi 



orolestes 



'" A', torqiiata a.\n\/cr?iti;iiifit I have not sceu, hence their rehitions may licit 

 be as here iudieated. 




1894.] XATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILAPET.PHIA. '251 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



PLATE IX. 



(Figures natural size. ) 



Figs. 1-4, 7, 8. Hodomys alleni, 9) 44,631, jNIanzanillo, Mexico. 

 1, skull from above; 2, same from left side; 3, same from 

 below ; 4, mandible from left side ; 7, same from below ; 

 8, same from above. 

 Figs. 5, (5, 9. Xeotoma. 



5, mandible from left side ; (5, same from below ; 9, same from 

 above. 

 Figs. 10-13. Xenomy.< iieJi^oiii, $, 45,287, Hacienda INIagdaleua, 

 Colima, ^Mexico. 

 10, skull from above; 11, same from left side; 12, same from 

 below ; 13, mandible from left side. 



TEXT FIOURI-:S. 



Fig. 1, (/, b, ('. Pfy-<sophoriis ele(/aii.-< (from Ameghino). 



a, right ramus of mandible, outer side. Nat size. 



b, "■ <» (i " inner side. Enlarged. 



c, crowns of right lower molars. 



d, Sigmodon hispidiis, crowns of right lower molars. Enlarged. 



e, Hodomys alleni, a u a << << a 

 Fig. 2. Tretomys atavus, left upper molars enlarged (from 



(Ameghino). 

 Fig. 3, (( and b, IIodomy.-< alleni. 



((, crowns of left upper molars, (x 5.) 



b, " " " lower molars. 

 (' and (/. Hodomys vettdus. 



c, crowns of left upper molars, (x 5. ) 



d, " " " lower molars. 

 e and /. Xenomys nelsoni. 



e, crowns of left upper molars, (x 5.) 

 /, " " " lower molars. 



Fig. 4. Xe)iomy.-< iielsoni. Type No. i|=^', S , ad. 

 Hacienda Magdalena, Colima, Mexico. 



a, upper molar series, (x 7.) 



b, lower molar series. 




252 PROC'EEDTNGS OF TTlE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Fig. 5, (/ and h. Xeotojiui desertonnn. Death Valley, California, 

 No. 34,138, <?, ad. (x 5.) 



a, upper molar series. 



b, lower molar series. 



c and c/. Neotoma temdcamhi. Type No. 45, (i29, 9, 



Sierra Nevada de Colima, Jalisco, Mexico. 

 (x5.) 



c, upper molar series. 

 (/, lower molar series. 



[Note. — The accompanying illustrations belong to the U. S. 

 Department of Agriculture. They are here used by courtesy ot 

 Dr. Chas. W. Dabney, Jr., Asst. Secretary of Agriculture.] 




1894]. XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



DESCRIPTIONS OF FOUR NEW SPECIES AND TWO SUBSPECIES OF 



WHITE-FOOTED MICE FROM THE UNITED STATES AND 



BRITISH COLUMBIA. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



The North American genus SUomijt<, comprising the white-footed 

 or deer mice, has received accessions in the last ten years which bring 

 the combined number of species and subspecies from twelve, in 1885, 

 to thirty-seven in 1884. It may appear presumptive to offer for con- 

 sideration six additional names to this already rather appalling list 

 of rodents belonging to a single genus. It is somewhat assuring, 

 however, to read the statement of Dr. J. A. Allen,' in his paper on 

 Recent Progress in the Study of North American Mammals, that 

 most of these forms are not only "well founded," but that he 

 is "cognizant of still undescribed forms entitled to recognition in 

 nomenclature.' ' 



It may be stated, that in every case the following diagnoses are 

 based on a critical comparison of both external and cranial char- 

 acters with a large series of allied forms from the same region, and 

 in the case of full species the separation has been mainly founded on 

 the characters of the skull. 



Sitomys megacephalus is represented by a single adult and two 

 young specimens in alcohol from northern Alabama, While it is 

 desirable that more specimens should be examined, its characters 

 diverge so widely from its nearest geographic allies, I can offer no 

 apology for presenting it now. 



Sifomijs insolafus is based on a single individual from the Mohave 

 Desert, California, while a second specimen from the Mohave River 

 in transitional pelage is provisionally referred to it. The collec- 

 tions of the Academy of Natural Sciences contain a large series of 

 Sitomijs from the neighboring regions of Southern California, 

 and the same is undoubtedly the case with the collections of the 

 Department of Agriculture; yet I find in insolatus no close corre- 

 spondence to any other mouse I have yet seen or read description of 



1 Proc. Liun. Soc, N. Y., 1894. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Sitoiiijis Iirrroiii iiiijilliis is an easily recognized mountain race of 

 the long-and- naked tailed species, which I described a year ago from 

 the San Bernardino Valle}'. 



<S7fo;»//>' inacrorJiuiHS and tS'tfoim/s krenii were severally taken on 

 the mainland coast and outlying islands of northern British Columbia, 

 by the Rev. Mr. Keen, a missionary stationed on Graham Island of 

 the Queen Charlotte Group. Their separation from each other, and 

 from northwestern forms previously known, is based on an examina- 

 tion of more than one hundred skins and crania of Sitomijs taken 

 by me in 1(S!)2 at numerous localities in British Columbia and 

 Washington, including a large series from Puget Sound at the type 

 locality of S. a. ansterus; also from Vancouver Island, Lulu Island, 

 and the Cascade Mountains of Washington and British Columbia. 



Sitoiinis ainerlcanns artcmisUe is founded on a series similarly taken 

 by the writer in the arid region east of the C'ascade Mountains in 

 southern British Cohnnbia, comparisons being further made with 

 series of *SVto»(//,s from Lac La Hache in the boreal realms, 100 miles 

 farther north, and with those captured in the Selkirk and Rocky 

 Mountain Ranges, eastwajd. Aiicmwn: is to the northern Great 

 Basin fauna what S. a. )H'l)nisri'iisls is to that of the northwestern 

 Great Plains. 



The color characters given for these northwestern species are of 

 greater diagnostic value, because nearly all the specimens were taken 

 in May, June, and July, a period when seasonal changes of pelage 

 are less pronounced than in a later or earlier period of the same 

 duration. 



Incidental to these studies, it is of interest to note the occur- 

 rence of a form, apparently inseparable from the Hudson Bay type 

 of Sitomi/s aiiieric(uni.-< ardlcKs, upon the higher mountain ranges 

 of southern British Columbia, thus adding a lifth mendoer of the 

 genus to the varied fauna of this great Province. 



1. Sitomys megacephalus sp. iiov. Type, ad. 9. ^"- ■^•535, Coll. Acad. Nat. Sd., 

 I'hiia. Wdudville, Alabama; Sprinj;, 1804. Col. by H. E. .Sargont. 



De-fcriptioii. — Size large; feet small; ears large; tail about length 

 of body without the head. Color above, dark blackish-cinnamon, 

 lined with gray, darkest on back, brownest on sides. Lower sur- 

 faces dirty white, the hairs plumbeous basally. The tail is sparsely 

 haired, and colored above and beneath to match the body. Inside 

 of hams phnnbeous. Hind feet white from heel; forefeet and fore- 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



arm white. The cinuamon of ueck forms a point, downwards, in- 

 vading the throat. Ears dusky and very sparsely haired. Whiskers 

 long and coarse, reaching far behind the recumbent ears. Skull very 

 large; its relative dimensions as in S. americanns with two notable ex- 

 ceptions, viz : 1, the alveolar length of molars is less than that of 

 average aiiicricamts, though the skull of niegacephalus is more than a 

 third larger; 2, the coronoid pi-ocess, always developed in amer lean us 

 (and in all other Sitovit/s I have seen), as a reflexed, claw-like 

 process, whose posterior face is iivirr perpendicular, is reduced in 

 me(/<Mrphalns to a thickened knob rounded posteriorly and rising but 

 slightly above the plane of the condylar shaft, and presenting a 

 strong resemblance to the articular terminus of the condyle ; in 

 other words, having not only the appearance but the character of a 

 miniature condyle set upon the base of the true one. 



Meamirrinents. — Total length, 184 mm; tail vertebra?, 81; hind 

 foot, 21-5 ; ear from crown, 14. Skull — Total length, 30-2 ; basilar 

 length, 2o ; zygomatic width, 15-5; length of nasals, 12; incisors 

 to post- palatal notch, 12; length of mandible, 16-3; greatest width 

 of mandible, 7-6. 



I have selected from a series of forty P^'lorida S. a. (/o.<'<ijpi)ii(.'< and 

 a series of nearly two hundred typical S. (nnerica)ui.<, eight of the 

 lai'gest fully adult crania of each form. Average measui-ements of 

 these, in the order just given above for the skull of megaccphalus, 

 are as follows : — 



Sltomijs americanns: 25-9— 1!» -9— 13-4— 10-— 10-5— -13-7 — H-1. 



S. «. rjo.-i.vipinus : 27-3— 20-5— 13-9— 10 -6- 10 -5—14 -1— (r 4. 



It will l)e seen that the Alabama S})ecies has a skull nearly five 

 millimeters longer than average adult americanus. It is further- 

 more about four millimeters longer than the longest skull of a series 

 of three hundred of the aincrminit.-' group which I have examined. 

 Compared with f/ossi/jnuas, whose average, it will be seen, somewhat 

 exceeds typical ainericainis, the differences are still very great. The 

 ty])e is a very old female, which was sent, in company with two young 

 (apparently her own), among a miscellaneous collection of alcoholic 

 animals from Jackson County, northern Alabama. They were the 

 only specimens of Sitoiniis sent by INIr. Sargent, and owing to his 

 sulisecfuent absence from the State, I have been unable to secure any 

 more specimens, to determine if this be the prevailing form in that 

 region. I have since received a large white-footed mouse from Pasco 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894, 



('oiinty, Florida, whose characters so nearly duplicate those of the 

 Alabama specimen, I am inclined, in spite of its different faunal 

 position, to consider it the same. The colors ^iven for ine(/acrphalus 

 may l)e relied upon, though taken from a spirit specimen after dry- 

 ing. The good condition of the alcohol and the whiteness of the 

 belly hairs show them not to have been affected in the least by their 

 recent immersion. In the two half-grown young, accompanying the 

 type, the same increased relative size of the cranium, compared with 

 americanus of same age, is noticeable. 



2. Sitomys insolatus sp. uov. Type, No. .3,495, ad. ^,('oll. Acart. Nat. Sci.. 

 Phila. Oro Grande, Mohave Desert, Keru Co., California, Nov. 9th. 1893. 

 Col. by R. B. Herron. 



Description. — Size smallest of the genus west of the Mississippi 

 River, with exception of S. taylorl. Tail and feet very short, the 

 former shorter than the body minus the head, much attenuated along 

 distal half, the dark upper stripe very narrow and not reaching tip. 

 Pelage very soft, long, and dense. Upper half of head and body of a 

 uniform grayish- ochre or fawn color, not darker dorsally nor more 

 ochraceous on sides. Uuder parts }Hii-e white, the hairs of chops 

 white to their base, those of remaining under parts i)lumbeous 

 basal ly. A lanuginous tuft at superior base of ear colored like the 

 head, remainder of outer ear dusky gray, the hairs longest on anterior 

 border, very short and sparse posteriorly. Narrow, upper tail-stripe 

 dusky, like ears its color at base in decided contrast with the fawn of 

 rump. Hind feet and ankles white, the soles fully haired to proxi- 

 mal tubercle. Forelegs and feet white. Whiskers reaching tip of 

 recumbent ears. Skull smaller than in ainericanus, more nearly ap- 

 proaching ereiiilcits, but relatively wider. Nasals wide, anterior to, 

 and bluntly wedged between, the nasal premaxillary processes, as in 

 eremicus. 



The width of the mandible of Insolatus equals nearly half its 

 length, and the coronoid process is relatively nearly as large and 

 hooked as in Oin/cho)nys nonoiia, in the first character resembling 

 eremicus, and in both departing radically from aiiin-lnoiux. The an- 

 terior loop of the first upper molar is a strongly indented trefoil, the 

 inner foil being twice as large as the middle one, which, in turn, is 

 twice as large as the outer foil. 



Measuremetits. — Total length, 15<'S ram; tail vertebrie, 76; hind 

 foot, 19-5; ear from crown, 12. Skull — Total length, 24-8; basilar 




1894.] NATURAr. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



length, 18-8; zygomatic width, 13; length of nasals, 9-8; incisors to 

 post- palatal notch, 9-8; length of mandible, 12-8; greatest width of 

 mandible, (5. 



This mouse, of which I have received but one specimen among 

 a considerable sei'ies of manmials from the same region, is strikingly 

 different from any Sitomi/.'^ that I have seen or can find description 

 of It is not merely a desert form of some group already known, 

 but if more specimens prove its characters, as given above, to be 

 constant, it represents a section intermediate in character between 

 Oiu/cJiomiis and SItomi/g. Its relationships, however, are much closer 

 to Sitomys. In its six tuberculate hind feet, the elongate lower 

 molar, the prominent coronoid process, and proportionate length of 

 tail to body, insolatus is a B(iioiii;is,''\mt the trefoil character of its first 

 upper molar is in another direction. The subgenus Baiomys, sepa- 

 rated from Sttomijs almost solely on its well- developed coronoid and 

 short tail, is of very questionable value, as many ^Sitomijs show a 

 tendency to the first character which have very long tails while other 

 short-tailed species show the reverse. In fact a large series of 

 Sitomys amerlcanus from Pennsylvania and New Jersey, which I 

 have studied, show individual variations in these characters among 

 themselves, which suffice to very closely connect Baiomys with the 

 typical form. In case further material should show the dental 

 peculiarity of insolatus to be constant, I would propose that it be 

 placed in the subgenus Trinodoidonys (Subgen. nov.) with characters 

 as already given. 



3. Sitomys herroni nigellus subsp. nov. Type. No. 3,496, ad. J* , Coll. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci.. Phila. West ("ajon Pass, San Bernardino Mts., California, Jan. 

 11th, 1894. Col. by E. B. Herron. 



Description. — General characters as in Sitomys herroni,^ the buffy- 

 gray of that species being deeply lined and shaded in the subspecies 

 by a predominance of long black hairs, the blackish shade being 

 most pronounced across the posterior half of body. The pelage is 

 longer, denser, and more harsh than in herroni, the tail and ears 

 much darker, the buft' of sides and cheeks of herroni becoming in 

 nigellus deep fawn and the bufiy cast of belly purer white. Skull 

 as in herroni. 



- True, Proc. Nat. Mas. XVI, 7.57. 

 3 Ehoads, Amer. Nat., 1893, 832. 



18 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Measurements. — Total length, 197mm,; tail vertebne, 114; bind 

 foot, 22. Skull — Total length, 26*2; basilar length, 19; zygomatic 

 width, 12-7; length of nasals, 9*2; incisors to post-palatal notch, 10; 

 length of mandible 13-1; greatest width of mandible, 6-1. 



Four specimens of this race were taken on the foothills of the San 

 Bernardino Range at the entrance to Cajon Pass connecting the San 

 Bernardino Valley with the Mohave Desert. They represent the 

 dark mountain form of herro)d, the latter being typical of the low- 

 lands. The four specimens are remarkably uniform in all the 

 characters given. 



4. Sitomys keeni sp. nov. Type, No. 768, ad. J, Coll. S. N. Eboads. Mas- 

 set, Queen C'luirlotte Is., B. V., 1892. Col. by Eev. J. H. Keen. 



Description. — Size larger than S. americanus austents, ears 

 smaller, feet much larger, tail more than the length of head and 

 body. Colors above, uniform grizzled blackish- brown lacking the 

 darker dorsal area so prominent in austeriis. Feet and lower parts 

 ashy-white, abruptly defined against dark upper colors. Ears, 

 upper half of tail, and ring around eyes, sooty black. Fur dense 

 and short, this character and the colors of upper parts giving it an 

 Arvicoline cast. Skull large for size of body. Brain case relatively 

 very large, deep, and rounded, inflated behind above plane of 

 the orbits as the skull rests on a horizontal surface, so there is a 

 decided descent from a point just anterior to the parietals toward the 

 nasal bones, and a depression at the interorbital constriction. In all. 

 other forms examined this horizontal elevation of the parietals is not 

 greater than that of the frontals between the orbits, and is often less. 

 The nasals are short, double- pointed, and broadly wedged posteriorly 

 and not reaching behind the naso-preniaxillary processes. The an- 

 terior zygomatic width is much narrower than the squamosal, and the 

 antorbital foramina are thereby much contracted, giving the skull a 

 more tapering, triangular contour than in allied forms. The ratio 

 of squamosal-zygomatic breadth to total length in keeni, expressed in 

 millimeters, is 14 "3 to 26*3, in austerus 12-5 to 25. In keeni the 

 greatest parietal breadth is 12-5, in austerus 11. 



Measurements. (From spii'it specimen.) — Total length, 170 mm; 

 tail vertebrre, 88; hind foot, 24; ear, from crown, 10*5. Skull — 

 Total length, 26 -3; basilar length, 20 '5; zygomatic width, 14-3; 

 length of nasals 10-2; incisors to post-palatal notch, 11-3; length of 

 mandible, 14; greatest width of mandible, 6*3. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Five specimens of this mouse, two adult and three somewhat 

 immature, were received by me through courtesy of Mr. James 

 Fletcher, of the Canadian Experimental Farm, at Ottawa. Mr. 

 Fletcher received them from Mr. Keen, who resides on the Queen 

 Charlotte Islands. I take pleasure in naming the animal after its 

 discoverer, and trust it may be some incentive to more extended 

 researches in this interesting and imperfectly known department of 

 northwest zoology. 



The specimens were sent in carbolized spirits. The purity of the 

 white after drying them out, shows their colors not to have altered, 

 and indicates that a series of well-preserved skins would show keeni 

 to be the darkest colored Sitomijs yet brought to notice, a condition 

 of affairs which our knowledge of their humid, insular environment 

 would lead us to expect. 



5. Sitomys macrorhinus sp. nov. Type, No. 1,381, ad. 9, Coll. S. N. Rhoads. 

 Skueiiii Kiver, British Coltiiubia, July 20th, 1893. Col. by Eev. J. H. Keen 



Description. — Size much larger than S. americanus. Tail con- 

 siderably longer than head and body, feet large, ears medium. 

 Colors much as in keeni (1. c. ), but grayer and lighter hued above, 

 without the sooty cast of Iceeni. The tail is more coarsely hairy and 

 the hairs longer than in keeni, forming a distinct pencil not seen in 

 that species. Skull, viewed above, of the same triangular type as 

 keeni, due to its antorbital constriction, but departing widely from 

 any other Sitomi/s I have examined, in the great relative length of 

 the rostrum (or that portion of the skull anterior to the interorbital 

 constriction ) to the total length of the skull. In all others examined 

 this dimension is less than that of the post interorbital region, taking 

 for the central point of measurement the narrowest constriction point 

 of the froutals. In macrorhinus this condition is reversed. The 

 relative length of the nasal bones in this species is not great, but the 

 slenderness of the rostrum and the anterior compression of the jugal 

 arch increases their apparent length and the relative prominence of 

 this portion of the cranium. These differences, coupled with the 

 large size of the skull, strongly define macrorhinus from any of its 

 geographic allies. 



Measurements. — Total length, 210 mm; tail vertebrae, 112; hind 

 foot, 25; ear from crown, 15; tail pencil, 6. Skull — Total length, 

 29; basilar length, 22-4; zygomatic width, 14-5; length of nasals. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



■ 



ll'O; incisor to post-palatal notch, 12-4; length of mandible, 14*5; 

 greatest width of mandible, 6'8. 



Two adult, nursing females of this species, were sent to Mr. 

 Fletcher, of the Ottawa Experimental Farm, by Mr. Keen, and 

 were forwarded to me in spirits. Their grayness, large size, and 

 long tails serve to distinguish them externally from any other 

 boreal or northwestern form I know of. Eight specimens of Sitoiiujs, 

 trapped at an elevation of 6,000 feet, on the Cascade Mountains of 

 northern Washington, are, perhaps, referable to this species. They 

 depart therefrom in somewhat smaller size, but in all other respects 

 are much nearer to it than to aiisterus, of Puget Sound. The climatic 

 conditions of the Cascades where these were taken, are, with the 

 exception of a more rigorous winter, quite the same as those pre- 

 vailing at Skeena Harbor, the type locality of viacrorhiuus. 



6. Sitomys americanus artemisiae sp. nov. Type, Xo. 368, ad. ^ , Coll. S. N. 

 Khoads. Ashcroft, J5ritish ('oluoil)ia, June fith, 1802. L'ol. by S. N. R. 



Description. — Size large, exceeding typical americanus. Tail 

 short, hardly equalling body without the head. Ears medium and 

 sparsely haired. The hind feet are small and densely haired to the 

 distal half. Colors above, tawny ash, inclining to fulvous on sides 

 and rump and darkening with an increase of blackish hairs along 

 the back. Upper third of tail sooty, the lower two-thirds white and 

 tipped with a pronounced pencil. Lower parts a soft, clear white, 

 with basal half of belly hairs plumbeous. 



3feasureinenfs. — Total length, 170 mm ; tail vertebrio, 70 ; hind 

 foot, 20 (average of 8 adults — Total, 164; tail, 68; foot, 20). 

 Skull — Total length, 26; basilar length, 20; zygomatic width, 102; 

 length of nasals, 11*1; incisor to post- palatal notch, 11; length of 

 mandible, 14; greatest width of mandible, 6.8. 



The nearest ally of this subspecies is probably S. a. nebrascensis, as 

 defined by Dr. Mearns,* from specimens taken at Calf Creek, INTontana, 

 from which it differs in not having dark well-haired ears and in the 

 absence of white patclies in front of ears. With nebr(i.'<censis it coin- 

 cides in short tail, larger body, long full pelage, hairy sole, and light 

 colors as contrasted with americanus of the east and austerus of the 

 west. The Ashcroft specimens represent the northern limit of a 

 Great Basin form of americanus, whose habitat probably extends far 



* Bull. Amer. Mus. N. H., Vol. II, Art. xx, 285. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



• 



into the United States, at least to southern Idaho, western Washing- 

 ton, and Oregon. Xebrascensi.s represents that of the western Plains. 

 It is probable that artemisife is included in the list of " Hesjyeromys 

 lei(copi(y," given by Dr. Merriara in N. American Fauna, No. 5, 

 from Idaho, which he states may "eventually merit separation into 

 two or three subspecies." 



Artemisice was taken in the open, semi-arid foothills and lower 

 mountain slopes around Ashcroft, their burroAvs often being situated 

 on a bare hillside, a mile or more from other shelter than that afforded 

 by the scant growth of dwarf sage, which here nearly reaches its 

 northernmost limit of existence. 



Note ox Sitomys Americanos Arcticus. 



The series of White-foote<^l Mice taken at Nelson, in the Selkirk 

 Mountains, B. C. , and at Field, in the Rocky ^lountains, B. C. , at 

 elevations of from 3,000 to 5,000 feet, fit so well Dr. Mearns' diag- 

 nosis (vid. sup. cit.)of aS. a. arcticus from the Hudson Bay Territory, 

 I feel almost assured, without the type before me, that they are the 

 same. 



Those from Vernon, a locality intermediate in its faunal characters 

 between those of Ashcroft and Field, are intergrades between arte- 

 misice, with its short tail and light fulvous colors, and arcticus, with 

 longer tail and dark mouse-gray shades. It is reasonable to expect 

 that the vast boreal regions of interior N. America, bounded on the 

 east by Hudson Bay, on the west by the Cascade Mountains, and 

 south by the higher mountain ridges which invade the northern 

 border of the United States, is tenanted by no other race or species 

 of the S. amerlcauus type than arcticus. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF EIGHT NEW POCKET MICE (GENUS PEROGNATHUS). 

 BY DR. C. HART MERRIAM. 



Among the Pocket Mice belonging to the collection of the U. S. 

 Department of Agriculture, now numbering upwards of 1,400 speci- 

 mens, are several that have not been named. Through the courtesy 

 of the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, Dr. Chas. W. Dabney, 

 Jr., I am enabled to publish the accompanying descriptions and 

 illustrations in advance of their publication by the Department. 



Respecting the eight forms here proposed, it may be stated that 

 P. baileyi is a type very different from any heretofore described. It 

 is a large animal with a peculiar skull, which suggests affinities with 

 P. jmradoxiis on one hand, and with P. fonnosus on the other, 

 though much nearer the latter than the former. P. columbianus is 

 a peculiar local form of the oUvaceas group. P. nevadensis, pana- 

 viiiithius, and inexlcaiiiis are small forms with much swollen mastoids, 

 belonging to the favus-Ioiif/hneiiibri^ group. P. nehoni, stepheusi, 

 and canesGens belong to the penicillatus group of the subgenus 

 Chijetodipus. 



Tlie large series of specimens from Mexico, in the Department 

 collection, carry the range of the genus southward over Sonora in the 

 west, and in the east over the states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, 

 Tamaulipas, Durango, San Luis Potosi, Zacatecas, and the Valley 

 of jNIexico. 



Perognathus baileyi sp. nov. (Fig. 1). 



Type from Magdalena, Sonora, Mexico. No. }^-?ll, 9 , ad., U. 8. 

 Nat. Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection. Collected 

 November 3, 1889, by Vernon Bailey. (Original number 633.) 



ilfea*-M/r;»(^'>//.s- (taken in flesh}. — Type: Total length, 210 mm; tail 

 vertebne, 122; hind foot, 27. Ear from anterior base, 11 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 8 specimens from type locality : 

 Total length, 215; tail vertebrie, 120; hind foot, 27. 



General characters. — Size large ; tail long and moderately crested 




1894.] 



NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



263 



on distal half; pelage moderately coarse, but no spines on rump or 

 elsewhere; ears large; tragus higher than broad ; 

 hind foot very large; skull unlike any known 

 species. P. hailexji is a wide departure from the 

 previously known members of the group. Ex- 

 ternally it resembles P. formosus, but its skull is of 

 a different type, resembling that of paradoxus in 

 size, height, solidity, and general form, but having 

 the large audital and mastoid bullte of formosus. 



Color. — Upper parts drab-brown, abundantly 

 lined with black hairs; under parts white; a pale 

 lateral stripe; tail bicolor, pale dusky above, 

 white beneath. 



Fig. 1. P. biiileyi. Craninl eharacters. —SknW large, heavy, and 

 high, resembling paradoxus in general form and solidity, but with 

 much larger mastoid and audital buUie, the latter nearly meeting 

 anteriorly below basisphenoid ; interparietal squarely pentagonal, 

 broadest anteriorly, ratio of length to breadth about 64. Total 

 length of skull of type specimen, 29-5; mastoid breadth, 15-5; 

 basal length, 24; basilar length of hensel, 20-5; greatest zygomatic 

 breadth (posteriorly), 15-5; length of nasals, 11-5. 



Note. — Specimens have been examined from Magdalena, Sonora, 

 and from New River, Mammoth, and a point 75 miles S. W. of 

 Tucson, in Arizona. 



Perognathus columbianus sp. no v. (Fig. 2). 



Type from Pasco, Plains of Columbia, Washington (on east side 

 of Columbia river, near mouth of Snake river). No. ^''^^l, S , yg. 

 ad., U. S. Nat. Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection. 

 Collected May 9, 1891, by Clark P. Streator. (Original number 

 768.) 



Meaxnrements (taken in flesh). — Type: Total length, 187 mm; 

 tail vertebrre, 96; hind foot, 23. Ear from anterior base, 9 (in dry 

 skinj. Average measurements of 11 specimens from type locality: 

 Total length, 170; tail vertebne, 89-4; hind foot, 22. 



General characters. — Size large; coloration pale; tail long, taper- 

 ing, rather scant haired; mastoid bulhe much swollen; pelage soft. 



Color. — Upper parts smoke gray, darkened oji the back by admix- 




264 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



tare of dark tipped hairs and sometimes showing an olivaceous tinge ; 

 under parts and feet white; lateral stripe faint; 

 tail bicolor, white below, dark above, but pale on 

 proximal half. Some specimens have a pale ful- 

 vous band along the side of the tail between the 

 dark upper side and the white under side. 



Cranial characters. — Skull large, and agreeing 

 in the main with other members of the olivaceus 

 group, but differing in the large size of the mastoid 

 bullte, which are much more swollen than in any 

 of the others. The audital bulhe meet or nearly 

 meet anteriorly below the basisphenoid. The in- 

 terparietal is strongly pentagonal and short trans- 

 versely. 



Fig. 2. P. colum- 

 bianiis, ^ . 



Perognathus nevadensis sp. nov. (Fig. 3). 



Type from Halleck, East Humboldt Valley, Nevada. No. 54,828, 

 $ , ad., U. S. Nat. Museum, Department of Agriculture Collec- 

 tion. Collected July 4, 1893, by Vernon Bailey. (Original num- 

 ber 4,070.) 



Measuremenis (taken in flesh). — Type: Total length, 127 mm; 

 tail vertebne, 72; hind foot, 19. Ear from anterior base 7 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 24 specimens from type locality: 

 Total length, 133; tail vertebra, 72-4; hind foot, 18*7. 



General characters. — Size small; tail long; pel- 

 age silky; color grayish. Similar to P. longi- 

 iiieinbi'u but with shorter tail, and color grayish 

 instead of buffy ochraceous. 



Color. — Upper parts buffy gray, everywhere 

 darkened by an abundant admixture of fine black- 

 tipped hairs; a dull buffy-ochraceous lateral stripe 

 which spreads out over the belly, leaving only the 

 throat and pectoral region white; tail indistinctly 

 bicolor, dark above (darkest near tip), buffy 

 ochraceous below. 

 Cranial and dental characters. — Skull small, mastoid bullte large; 

 interparietal pentagonal. Skull siniilar to that of P. longimembris 

 but lower premolar decidedly larger than last molar, and m i larger 

 than m y- 



Fig. ;i I", 

 dcnsii^ 



lirvil- 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Perognathus longimembris panamintinus siibsp. nov. (Fig. 4). 



Type from Perognathus Flat, Panamint Mts., Califoraia. No. 

 ■!9.HM' ^' yS- ^^-f ^- ^- ^^f- Museum, Department of Agriculture 

 Collection. Collected April 16, 1891, by Vernon Bailey. (Original 

 number 2,675.) 



Measi()rmenfs(ta.ken'm^es\\).— Tiipe: Total length, 152 mm; tail 

 vertebrtt, 83 ; hind foot, 20. Ear from anterior base 7 (in dry skin). 

 Average measurements of 29 specimens from type locality: Total 

 length, 143; tail vertebra-, 78; hind foot, 19-8. 



General characters. — Size small ; pelage silky ; tail long, de- 

 cidedly longer than head and body; skull long and slender, particu- 

 larly the rostrum. Compared with lonc/iwembrls the ground color 

 of the upper parts is paler (pale buffy ochraceous 

 instead of pale fulvous), but the upper parts as a 

 whole are darker from the more liberal admixture 

 of black- tipped hairs; the ears are smaller, the hind 

 feet longer, the tail much longer and better haired; 

 the pelage longer and more silky. 



Color. — Ground color of upper parts pale ochra- 

 ceous-buff, everywhere (except on lower sides) ob- 

 scured by black tipped hairs; under parts and feet 

 white; tail incompletely bicolor : dull ochraceous 

 below, dark above. Sometimes the proximal half 

 is concolored all around, the distal half only being dark above. 



Oranial characters. — Skull similar to that of longimembris in 

 general characters, but much longer and more slender, particu- 

 larly the rosti'al part. Tiie pentagonal interparietal is broader 

 transversely than in longimembris, and the audital bullse meet 

 anteriorly in a symphysis. 



Perognathus flavus mexicanus snbsp. uov. (Fig 5). 



Type from Tlalpam, Valley of Mexico (Federal District.) No. 

 50,714, yg. ad., U. S. Nat. Museum, Department of Agriculture 

 Collection. Collected December 4, 1892, by E. W. Nelson. 

 (Original number 3,978.) 



Measareiiumts (taken in Hesh). — Type: Total length, 118 mm; tail 

 vertebrae, 55; hind foot, 17-5. Ear from anterior base 6 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 12 specimens from type locality: 

 Total length, 116; tail vertebrte, 53-7, hind foot, 17-4. 



. 4. r. iiaua- 

 inintinns. 




266 



General 



large 



[1894. 

 ; color 



Fig. 5. P. moxi 

 ciuns. 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



characters. — Size small; raastoifl bulla? 

 fuliginous in winter pelage. 



Color. — Winter pelage : Upper parts fuliginous or 

 dusky ; under parts and feet white ; a rather large 

 patch behind each ear, and a broad lateral stripe 

 (reaching from side of face to hind legs) ochraceous; 

 tail indistinctly bicolor, pale dusky above, whitish be- 

 neath. Summer pelage: Upper parts ochraceous, ob- 

 scured by the profuse admixture of black-tij)ped hairs. 

 Cranial characters. — Skull as in P. jiavm, but 

 audital bulla? separated anteriorly by breadth of 

 basisphenoid. 

 Perognathus (Cheetodipus) nelsoni sp. uuv. (Fi^. <j). 



Type from Hacienda La Parada, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 

 No. 50,214, 9 , old, U. S. Nat. Museum, Department of Agri- 

 culture Collection. Collected August 19, 1892, by E. \\. Nelson. 

 (Original number 3, 207. ) 



Measurements (taken in tlesh). — Tz/pe; Total length, 190 mm; 

 tail vertebrae, 105; hind foot, 24. Ear from anterior base, 8 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 14 specimens from type loealitv : 

 Total length, 178; tail vertebne, 101; hind foot, 23. 



General characters.— ^\ZQ rather small; ears rather long; tail of 

 medium length and moderately crested on distal 

 half; pelage rather coarse, with a few slender 

 spines on the rump (the spines are absent in the 

 young and in certain conditions of the molt). 

 Apparently C. nelsoni is an offshoot from the 

 intermedins- ohscniras type, from which it differs 

 widely in external appearance and less markedly 

 in cranial characters. 



Color. — Summer pelage coarse : Upper jDarts 

 grizzled yellowish-brown from admixture of coarse 

 huffy' and black hairs. Winter pelage finer, and 

 grayish black in color. Under parts and feet 

 white; tail bicolor, white below, brownish- dusky above, becoming 

 blackish distally. 



Cranial characters. — Skidl similar to that of intermedins, but 

 somewhat larger; maxillary arms of zygomata more squarely spread- 

 ing; nasals decidedly larger and longer. 



Fig. (>. I 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Perognathus (Chaetodipus ) strphensi sp. iiov. (Fig. 7). 



Type from N. W. Arm of Death Valley (Mesquite Valley), 

 California. No. §^3, S , ad., U. S. Nat. Museum, Department of 

 Agriculture Collection. Collected April 6, 1891, by Frank 

 Stephens. (Original number 258.) 



Measurements (taken in flesh). — Type: Total length, 177 mm; tail 

 vertebne, 96; hind foot, 21. Ear from anterior base, 7'5 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 2 specimens from type locality : 

 Total length, 177; tail vertebra, 95; hind foot, 21. 



General characters.— S\ze small; tail vertebrjB slightly longer than 

 head and body; tail scantily crested; ears medium; tragus higher 

 than broad ; pelage rather soft ; no spines on rump or elsewhere. 

 This species is evidently a dwarf of the penicillatus 

 group, though the area it inhabits is completely 

 isolated from the range of the penicillatus type. 



Color. — Upper parts butty-drab varying to pale 

 drab-brown; a rather large pale ring around eye; 

 under parts, feet, and fore legs white; no lateral 

 line; tail bicolor, slightly darker than back above 

 and terminally, white beneath. 



Cranial characters. — Skull similar to that of in- 

 Fig. 7. P. ste- termedius, but much smaller and flatter, with inter- 

 pheiisi. parietal broadly and flatly pentagonal instead of 



strap shaped, and audital bullte more slender. In size and general 

 form the skull agrees most closely with arenarius from the middle 

 region of the Peninsula of Lower California. It ditters from aren- 

 arius in having the rostrum and nasals much broader and the 

 audital bulla? much less swollen. 

 Perognathus (Chaetodipus) intermedius canescens subsp. nov. 



Type from Jaral, Coahuila, Mexico. No. 51,016, S , yg. ad., 

 U. S. Nat. Museum, Department of Agriculture Collection. Col- 

 lected January 14, 1893, by Clark P. Streator. (Original num- 

 ber 2,557.) 



Measurements (taken in flesh). — Ti/pe : Total length, 1 93 mm ; tail 

 vertebra, 117 ; hind foot, 22. Ear from anterior base, 8 (in dry 

 skin). Average measurements of 2 specimens from type locality : 

 Total length, 189; tail vertebme, 111; hind foot, 22. 



General characters. — Similar to interinedins, but slightly larger and 

 much grayer. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Color. — Upper parts drab-gray, plentifully lined with dusky on 

 median ])art of back and over rump; under parts and feet white; 

 lateral line obsolete ; tail bicolor, brownish above, becoming dusky 

 distally ; white beneath. 



Cranial characters. — Skull similar to C. intermedium obscvriis, but 

 narrower anteriorly (across maxillary arms of zygomata); inter- 

 parietal broader antero- posteriorly ; ascending branches of pre- 

 maxillie reaching posteriorly behind nasals; frontals considerably 

 narrower between orbits. 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 



(Skulls all enlarged li.) 



Fig. 1. Perognathus baileyi, 9 , No. 24,775. Type. Magdalena, 



Sonora, Mexico. 

 Fig. 2. P. columhianus, $ ,'^o.2,d,Ab^. Type. Pasco, Washington. 

 Fig. 3. P. nevadensis, $ , No. 54,565. Halleck, Nevada (type 



locality). 

 Fig. 4. P. longimembris paiiamintimts, S ,1^0. W,H6Q. Type. Pana- 



mint Mts. , Calif 

 Fig. 5. P. fiavus mexicanus, 9, No. 50,713. Tlalpam, Valley of 



Mexico (type locality). 

 Fig. 6. P. (Clurtodipus) nelsoni, 9 , No. 50,214. Type. Hacienda 



La Parada, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 

 Fig. 7. 1\ (Ch(etodipus) stepheusi, 9 , No. 39,874. N. W. Arm 



Death Valley, Calif, (type locality). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Septembkr 4. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chaix-. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 



September 11. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The death of H. T. Cresson, September 6, 1894, was announced. 



September 18. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty- five persons present. 



September 25. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publica- 

 tion : — 



"Descriptions of a New Subgenus and New Species of Arvicoline 

 Rodents from British Columbia and Washington," by Samuel N. 

 Rhoads. 



"Recent Mound Exploration in Ohio," by Clarence B. Moore. 



"List of the Diptera of Jamaica, with Descriptions of New 

 Species," by Charles W. Johnson. 



Observations on Blarina brevieauda. — Dr. Harrison Allen 

 drew attention to several structural features in this animal. The 

 lower jaw articulates with the skull, not only by the tem])oro- 

 mandil)u]ar joint, but by a sphenoido-maudibular. The one last 

 named was described as being much the larger and apparently more 

 important of the two. The mandibular surface is placed on the inner 

 side of the ascending ramus, and the sphenoidal surface is situated at 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



the base of the pterygoid process. It forms a deep recess, the mouth 

 of which is directed outward, the bases of the pterygoid processes 

 are convex and opposed to one another on either side of the mesoptery- 

 goid fossa. The occipital condyles are without division : the appear- 

 ance is quite the same as in the Cetacea, and suggests a similar 

 mechanism of the atlanto-occipital joint, namely, a cranium which 

 is deviated scarcely at all from a horizontal plane. The anterior 

 annular ligament of the ankle-joint is ossified, and constitutes 

 part of the tibia. The astragalus is nearly flat on proximal 

 surface, and the patellar trochlea is low and wide. These two 

 characters probably co-ordinate, and establish Blarina as an animal 

 whose posterior extremity is of low specialization, and one which sup- 

 ports the trunk imperfectly. The absence of the pubic symphysis 

 probablv is associated with the above conditions. The biceps femoris 

 and gracilis constitute one muscle, and the two enclose the slender 

 semitendinosus in a manner suggestive of the tenuissimus of Lepus. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



LIST OF THE DIPTERA OF JAMAICA WITH DESCRIPTIONS 

 OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY CHAKl.KS W. .JOHNSON, 



This list is based on a collection made by INIr. AVm. J. Fox and 

 myself, during April and the early part of May, 1891. In addi- 

 tion to those collected and identified, I have added all the species 

 previously recorded from the Island. The latter are designated by 

 an asterisk (-). To Mr. D. W. Coquillett, Mr. C. H. Tyler Town- 

 send, and Mr. Samuel Heushavv I wish to express my sincere thanks 

 for kind assistance. 



CECIDOMYID^. 



One specimen resembling the genus Catocha. Port Antonio. 



BIBIONIDiE. 



*Plecia rufithorax Walker, List, etc., I, llti. 



CULICIDtE. 



Culex fasciatus Fabricius, Sy.st. Antl., 36, 13. 

 Cidex mosquito R. Desv., C'ulicide.s, etc., 3!)0. 

 Troublesome in the woods near Hope Bay. 



Culex sp. 



Fort Antonio. 



TIPULID^. 



'Geranomyia intennedia Walker. 



Liniiiobia intermedia Walker, List, etc., I, 47. 



Four imperfect specimens of a species belonging to this family 

 were collected at Kingston. 



STRATIOMYID^. 



Hermetia illucens Linne. For synonymy, see Osten-Sacken, Catl. 46. 

 Four specimens. Port x\ntouio. 



*Oxycera Liburna Walker, List, etc., Ill, 528. 



Macrosargus alchidas Walker. 



Sargus ateliidas Walker, List, etc.. Ill, 517. 



Five $ and four 9 . Port Antonio. The male agrees with 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894* 



Walker's description. As both sexes were taken the same day 

 and at the same spot, alonu- a path in the hills back of the town, 

 I have no doubt but that they are the same species, though the 

 female differs considerably from the male. The following is a de- 

 scription of the female, which has not been described: — 



Length <S mm. Face and front yellowish ; vertex green ; oral 

 margins brownish; antennae reddish; aristiie black. Thorax and 

 scutellum green ; a slender line of yellow extends from the humeri 

 to the base of the wings (also present in the male). Abdomen 

 much wider than in the male, bluish-green, second segment concave 

 at the sides, with a central yellow spot at the base; pubescence on the 

 posterior borders of the segments more prominent than in the male. 

 Venter bluish, the second segment, and the posterior margin of the 

 third and fourth narrowly margined with yellow. Front and 

 middle legs yellow; posterior femora with outer half of the tibite 

 and tarsi brownish- black, base of the femora and basal half of the 

 tibiie and tarsi yellow. In the color of the posterior legs occurs the 

 greatest difference, though the outer portions of the femora, tibite, 

 and tarsi of the male are noticeably darker. 



*Sargus Bagosa Walker, List, etc., Ill, 518. 



*Clitellaria anchialus Walker, List, etc., Ill, 522. 

 =Var.? Clitcllaria chalyhcce Wiecl., according to Walker, List, etc., lY, 1157. 



Nemotelus flavicornis n. si). 



Length ( $ ') 2] mm. Face and vertical triangle black, shining. 

 Facial protuberance prominent, conical ; antenme yellow. Facets 

 of the upper half of tlie eye double the size of those of the lower. 

 Thorax and scutellum greenish- black, shining; humeri, and a nar- 

 row line from there to the base of the wings, yellow. Abdomen 

 yellow, with a small black subtriangular spot in the center of the 

 fourth and fifth segments ; venter yellow. Legs yellow, posterior 

 femora and tibiie with a wide medial band of dark brown. Wings 

 hyaline, whitish, discal cell emits four veins. 



One specimen, Kingston. 



TABANIDiG. 



Chrysops costatus Faliricius. 



Tabaniis cos/a/iis Fabr., Ent. Syst., IV, 373, 43. 



Taba/nis variegalus DeGeer, VI, Tab. XXX, f. 7. "Synou. very probable" 

 (Osteii-Sacken). 



Two specimens, Port Antonio. 




1894.] NATUKAI^ SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 273 



*Tabanus lucidulus Walker. List, etc., I, 188. 



*Tabanus rufiventris Macquart, Dipt. Exot, 1, 1, 141,39. Walker. List, etc., I, 

 ISO. 



LEPTIDiE. 



*Plieneus tibialis Walker, Dipt. Saiind., 15(5, Tab. IV, f. 3., 



"Mr. Walker refers this genus to the AsilicUe; I place it here on 

 the authority of Mr. Loew l^iu Utt)." — Osteu-Sacken. 

 Chrysopila jamaicensis ii. sp. 



Length, ^9,4 mm. Face and front browuish-black. Antennae, 

 and proboscis reddish; terminal style nearly three times the length 

 of the autennre. Thorax dull black ; male with golden pubescence; 

 humeri and scutellum brownish, pleurne grayish, abdomen blackish; 

 male with golden pubescence ; a denuded specimen shows the basal 

 half of the second segment to be yellow ; female with a yellowish 

 lateral line, slightly interrupted at the base of the segments; ovi- 

 positor yellow, tip brown. Legs yellow, with minute blackish hairs 

 on the tibite and tarsi, yellowish on the femora; a preapical spot on 

 the posterior temora and terminal joints of the tarsi blackish. 

 Wings hyaline, veins and stigma brown. 



Seven specimens, Port Antonio. 



ASILID^. 



Leptogaster longipes n. sp. 



Length, 9 , 9 mm. Face and front grayish; a few long yelloAv 

 hairs above the oval margin; ocelli and proboscis black ; antennje 

 dark brown. Dorsum of the thorax brownish, with three longitudi- 

 nal black lines ; the dorsal one gradually tapering towards the pos- 

 terior; lateral lines irregular, widest on the anterior side of the 

 suture. Pleunie and scutellum grayish. Abdomen black, with thin, 

 short, yellowish pubescence, longest on the sides of the last segments ; 

 anterior and posterior margins of the segments grayish, thus forming 

 somewhat obscure bands. Legs brownish, coxse yellowish, basal 

 joint of the front and middle tarsi (except the tip) light yellow; pos- 

 terior legs double the length of the middle ones, the outer third of 

 the femora greatly enlarged, and the enlarged portion encircled by 

 two yellow bands; tip of the tibiie, and of all the tarsal joints 

 blackish. Wings hyaline, veins blackish. 



One specimen. Port Antonio. 



19 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Plesiomma indecora Loew, ("entur. , VII, 13. 



Two specimens, Kin<iStou, April; Morant Bay, May 7. 



Cerotainia macrocera Say. 



Lapluia macrocera Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., Ill, 73. 



Eight specimens, Port Antonio. The specimens collected differ 

 from those found in the vicinity of Philadelphia, in being of a more 

 bluish-black color, and on an average somewhat smaller. 



Erax Haloesus Walker. 



Asilus Hahrsiis Walker, List, etc., Ill, 405. 



One specimen, Bath (Mrs. Swainson). 



*Erax invarius Walker, Dipt. Sainid., 131. 

 Oiiimatius saccas Walker, I^ist, etc., II, 474. 

 Eight specimens. Port Antonio. 



BOMBYLIDiE. 



Hyperalonia proserpina Wiedemaun. 



Aiilhra.v prost'rphia Wied., Auss. Zw. Ins., I, 257. 



Exoprosopa proserpina Schiner, Eeise d. Novara Zool., Ill, Abth. I. 117, 



Anthrax Khigii Wied., Auss. Zw. Ins., II, 632. 



Anthrax rufescens Walker, List, etc.. Ill, 238. 



Two specimens, Kingston ; Bath. 



Hyperalonia cerberus Fabricius. 



Anthiax cerberus Fabr., Ent. System, IV, 256. 



Velocia cerberus Coquillett, Can. Entom., XVIII, 157; ibid., XIX, 12. 



One specimen, Morant Bay. 



Exoprosopa parva Loew, Centiir., VIII, 26. 

 One specimen, Kingston. 



*Exoprosopa igniter (Walker) Osten-Sacken, Catl., se. 

 Anthrax iffni/cr Walker, List, etc., II, 243. 



"Walker contradicts himself about this species; in the Dipt. 

 Saund., page 1G6, he places it among the species with two sub- 

 marginal cells : later, lie puts it in Wiedemann's Division I, the 

 species of which have three such cells." — Osten-Sackeu. As this 

 remark also applied to Anthrax triinacida, this species may also be a 

 true Anthrax. 



■^Exoprosopa subfascia Walker. 

 Antlirax subfascia Walker, List, etc., II, 249. 



Argyramoeba (Edipus Fabricius. 



Anthrax (Jidipus Fabr., System. Antl., 123, 22. 



Anthrax irrorata Say, .Tourn. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., Ill, 46. 



Antlirax irrorata Macquart, Dipt. Exot., II, 1, 60, Tab. XX, f. 6. 



Two specimens, Kingston. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



'^Argyramoeba Gideon Fabricius Walker ; List, etc., II, 257. ("Yar. ? abdomen 



all black.") 

 Anthrax lateralis Say. 



Anthrax 5(Zi-/«77// Macquart, Dipt. Exot., II, 1, 60, 1.3. 



Anthrax alternata Say, var. lateralis Say, Coquillett, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, 

 XIY, 160. 



Four specimens, Kingston. 



Anthrax lucifer Fabricius. 



Antlirav flinniflanima Walker, Dipt. Saund., 184. 



Common at Rock Fort, near Kingston. 



Anthrax trimacula Walker, List, etc., II, 250. 



Exoprosopa trimacula (Walker), Osten-Sacken, Catl. 87. 



Thirteen specimens, Kingston, Port Antonio, and Annotto Bay. 



Anthrax bigradata Loew, Centur., YIII, 37. 



t Anthrax albovittata Macq., Dipt. Exot., 4, SuppL, 113, 90. 



One specimen, Kingston. 



*Anthrax delicatula Walker, List, etc., II, 266. 



*Bombylius plumipes Drury, Illustr., etc., II, Tab. xxxix,fig. 3; Wiedemann, 

 Auss. Zw. I, 351, 50. 



Geron senilis Fabricius. 



Bornbylixis senilis Fabr., Ent. System., lY, 411, 17; System. Antl., 135, 31. 

 Geron alhidipennis, Loew, Centur., IX, 78 [Coquillett], 

 Geron vitripennis Loew, Centur., IX, 77 [Coquillett]. 



Two specimens, Kingston. 



THEREVIDJE. 



Psilocephala obscura Coquillett, Can. Entom., XXY, 229. 

 One specimen, Kingston ; April. 



EMPID^. 



*Tachydromi Baois Walker. 



Platy palpus Bacis Walker, List, etc., Ill, 510. 



DOLICHOPODIDiE. 



Psilopus chrysoprasius Loew, Neue Beitr., YIII, 87; Monogr. II, 258. 

 Psilopus chrysoprasia Walker, List, etc.. Ill, 646 [Loew]. 



Three specimens, Kingston ; common, Port Antonio. 



Psilopus jucundus Loew, Neue Beitr., YIII, 87; Monogr. II, 258. 



J'silopNs sipho Macquart. Dipt. Exot., II, 3, 119, Tab. 31, f. 1 [Loew]. 



Four specimens, Kingston ; Port Antonio. 

 ■Psilopus suavium Walker, List, etc.. Ill, 648. 




276 proceedings of the academy of [1894. 



SYRPHIDtE. 



*Clirysotoxum nigrita Fabricius. 



Syrphits nigriliis Fabr., Eat. System., IV, 202, 49. 



Miilio iiiffrila Fabr., System. Antl., 183; Wiedemann, Auss. Z\v., II, 88. 



Syrplius antipathes Walker, List, etc., Ill, 589. 



Mesograpta arcifera Loew. 



Mesogramma arcifera Loew, Ceutur., VI, 53. 



Common, Kingston ; Port Antonio. 



Mesograpta subannulata Loew. 



Mc'sograiiiina a/ci/'c'ra Lioew, Ceutur., VI, 48. 



Eleven specimens, Kingston ; Port Antonio. 



Mesograpta poecilogaster Loew. 



ilfesograinina p/i'cilogas/er Lioew, Ceutur., VI, 51. 



Four specimens, Port Antonio. 



Mesograpta laciniosa Loew? 



Mesogra»ima laciniosa Loew, Centur.. VI, 50. 



One specimen, Port Antonio. 



Baccha clavata Fabrieius. 



SvrpliKS claz'ala Fabr., Eut. System., IV, 289. 

 Baccha Bahis/a Walker, List, etc.. Ill, 549. 

 Baccha fascialis Tliomson, Eugeu. Eesa, Ins., 504. 

 Spazigaster baccholdes Bigot, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr., 1883, 326. 



Six specimens, Rock Fort, near Kingston. 



Bacoha latiuscula Loew. 



Ocyptanius laliusciila r>oe\v, Centur., VII, (58. 



One specimen, Kingston. 



Volucella pallens Wiedemann, Auss. Zw. Ins., II, 204. 



WiluccIIa scApunc/ala Loew, Wieu. Ent. Monatsclir., V, 39. 



One specimen, Port Antonio. 



Volucella obesa Fabricius. 



Syrphus obesus Fabr., Syst. Ent., 763, 5. 



Ornidia obesa St. Fargeau and Serville, Eucycl. Meth., X, 786. 



? Volucella azurea Phillipi, Verb, zool.-bot. Gesell., 1865, 734, pi, xxvi, f. 35. 



Common, Port Antonio. 



Volucella (Temnocera) purpurascens Loew. 



Teuiiwcera pin pnrascc/is L,ocw, Centur., VIIl, 52. 



Two specimens, Kingston. 



Eristalis vinetorum Fabricius. 



Syi-phi<s Z'iiic/oruiii Fabr., Ent. S.vst., Suppl., 562. 



Eristalis Iri/ascialus Say. .Jouru. Acad. Nat. Sci.. Pliila.. VI, 165. 



Erislalis uvaruin Walker, List, etc.. Ill, 623. 



Common, Port Antonio. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEJ.PH FA. 277 



Eristalis albifrons Wiedenmnn, Anss. Z\v. Ins., II, 189. 



Kiis/alis albitcps Macquart, Dipt. Exot., II, 50. 

 Eristalis seniculus Loew, C'entur., VI, G3. 



Common, Port Antonio. 



Eristalis atrimanus Loow, C'entur.. ^'I, 02. 

 Two specimens, Port Antonio. 



*Eristalis lateralis Walker, Linn. Trans., XVII, 347, 42. Walker, List, etc.. 

 Ill, 022. 



Pteroptila cincta Drury. 



Miisca liiicta Dniry, Ins., I, 109, Tab. XLV, f. 0. 



Syrpliiis piiiffitis Fabricius, Syst. Ent., 703, 0: Ent. Syst., IV, 282, 16. 

 £';7\s7rt//i/>/«o«« Fabriciiis, Syst. Antl., 233. 0: Wiedemann, Auss. Zw. Ins., 

 II, lfl3, 01. 



.Ifi/rsia aiiia Walker, List, etc., Ill, 304. 



Common, Port Antonio. 



Ceria Daphnaeus Walker. List, etc.. Ill, 537. 



Three specimens, Kingston ; Port Antonio. 



CESTRID^. 



*Gastrophilus pecorum Fabricius. 



"Europe, and according to Walker, Jamaica" (Osten-Sacken). 



PHASIID^. 



*Tricliopoda pennipes Fabricius, Towusend, Entoni, News, IV, 70. 

 Miisca pemiipes Fabr., Ent. Syst., IV, 348, 149. 

 Dictya pennipes Wiert.. Auss. Zw., II, 274, 9. 



OCYPTERID^. 



Ocyptera Dotadas Walker, List, etc., IV, 094. 

 Two specimens. Port Antonio. 



TACHINIDJE. 



Pseudohystricia exilis Townsend, Eutoni. Xews, III, 146. 

 Cinchona ( Cockerell), Batli (Mrs. Swainson). 



Jurinia amethystina Macqnart, Dipt. Exot., II, 3, 42, 9: Tab. TIT. t. 7. 

 Common, Port Antonio. 



* Jurinia basilis Walker, I.,ist, etc., IV, 713. 

 *Jurinia epileuca Walker. List, etc., IV, 710. 



Blepharipeza nigrisquamis Towusend, Entom. News, III, 80. 



Three specimens, Port Antonio (Portland). Bath. (Mrs. Swain- 

 son.) 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



*Blepharipeza breviventris Wiedemann. 



'J'achiiia breviventris Wied., Auss. Zw., II, 297; Walker, List, etc., IV, 712. 



*Blepharipeza sp. Townsend. Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 314. 



*Belvosia bicincta Rob. Desv., Myod., 103. 



Senometopia bicincta Macquart, Hist. Nat. Dipt., II, 112. 



Belvosia bifasciata Fabr., Osten-Sacken, Cat!., 153. 



Willistonia bicincta Brauer and Bergenstamm, Muse. Scliiz., II, 99. 



Kingston (T. D. A. Cockerell;. 

 *Echinomyia basifulva Walker, List, etc., IV, 725. 



Elachipalpus macrocera Wiedemann. 



Ta china macrocera Wied., Auss. Zw., II, 290. 

 Cuphocera macrocera Scliiner, Novara, 330. 



Port Antonio (Portland). 



Gonia pallens Wiedemann, Auss. Zw., II, 346. 



Gonia angusta Macq., Dipt. Exot., II, 3, 56, pi. 5, f. 5. 



Gonia lineata Macq., Dipt. Exot., Suppl., IV, 178. 



Gonia chilensis ^lacq., (variety), Dipt. Exot., II, 3, 50, pi. 5, f. 4. 



Common, Port Antonio. 



*Tachina hirta Drury. 



]\Iusca liirta Drury, Ins., 109, Tab. XLV, f. 4. 



*Exorista lagoae Townsend, Ent. News, II, 159; Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 314. 

 " Mandeville. Bred from a red Halesidota" (E. S. Panton). 



*Exorista (Masicera? ) sp.l Townsend, Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 315. 



*Nutopia Xychus Walker. 



Ophilia Xycliiis Walker, List, etc., IV, 770. 



Anisia Vanderwulpi Townsend, Eutom. News, III. SI. 

 One specimen, Port Antonio (Portland), April. 



*Masicera protoparcis Townsend, .Tourn. Inst. Jamaica, I, 70. 



Bred from larva of Protoparce jamaiceiisis. Kingston (Cockerell). 



*Masicera sp.'? Townsend, Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 315. 

 Kingston, Jnly 19. 



DEXIDjE. 



*Dexia Thomae Wiedemann, Auss. Zw., II, 379; Jamaica (Walker, List, IV, 

 840). 



*Sarcodexia sternodontis Townsend. 



Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 105. Bred from a longicorn beetle. 

 Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 221. Bred from a scorpion (Cockerell). 



SARCOPHAGID^. 



Sarcoplxaga incerta Walker, Dipt. Saund., 324. 

 Common, Port Antonio. 



Sarcophaga plinthopyga Wiedemann, Auss. Zw., II, 366. 

 Common, I'ort Antonio. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 279 



Sarcophaga sp., Townsend, Journ. Inst. Jamaica, I, 315. 

 Kiugston. 



Sarcophagula sp., Towusend, Jonrn. Inst. .Tamaic-a, I. 31G. 

 Kiogstou, July 10. 



Sarcophilodes sp., Townsend, .Icmiu. I ii.st. Jamaica, I, 316; ^Sloneague. 



Phrissopoda sp., Townsend, Jouiii. Inst. .Jamaica, I, 315; Bath. 

 Bath ; bred from a snail. 



MUSCID^. 



Musca basilaris Macquart. Dipt. Exot., II, 3. 153. 8 ; Walker, List, etc., IV, 901. 

 Coniniou, Kiugston. 



Lucilia sp. 



Coninioni, Port Antonio. 



Compsomyia macellaria Fabricius. 



Musca macellaria Fabr., Syst. Ent., 776; Ent. Syst.. IT, 319. 



Lucilia macellaria Macquart, Dipt. Exot., II, 3, 147. pi. 17, f. 9. 



Lucilia hominivorax Coquerel. Ann. Soc. Ent., 1858, 173, Tab. IV, f. 2. 



For svnonvmv see Williston, Albatross Explor., Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XII, 

 203. 



Common, Kiugston. According to Lynch- Arribalzaga and Dr. 

 Williston, twenty-seven specific names have been applied to this 

 species. 



*Oriiiia punctata R. Desv., Myod., 428. 



Ochroinyia punctata Macq.. Hist. Xat. Dipt., II, 250, 3. 



SCIOMYZID^. 



Tetanocera spinicornis Loew, Centur.. \T, 86. 

 Three specimens, Port Antonio. 



*Sepedon macropus Walker, List, etc., IV, 1078; Lw, Monogr. I, 125. 



MICROPEZIDJE. 



Calobata lasciva Fabricius. 



Musca lasciva Fabr., Ent. Syst., Suppl.. 574, 111. 



Calobata albiniana Macquart, Dipt. Exot., II, 3, 245: Fab., 33, f. 3. 



Calobata valida Walker, Dipt, .'-iaund., 390. 



Calobata ruficcps Guerin, Iconogr.. etc.. III. .553. Tab. 103, fig. 7. 



Tcenioptera trivittata Macq., Hist. Xat. IMpt.. II. 491, Tab. XX, f. 9. 



-'Calobata aloa Walker, Ust, etc., IV, 1053. 



Six specimens, Port Antonio. 



Calobata fasciata Fabricius. 



Musca fasciata Fabr., System. Ent., 781, 43. 

 Three specimens, Port Antonio; Kingston. 



Calobata pleuritica n. sp. 



Length, 7 mm., $ 9 . Face, front, vertex, and occiput red; 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



about seven prominent setae along the vertical angle ; antennae yel- 

 low, aristae black; ocelli and tip of the proboscis l)lack. Thorax 

 and scutellum shining blue- black; pleurie and a dorsal line, or spot 

 on the front of the thorax, red; scutellum bearing two prominent 

 sette. Abdomen black ; terminal segment and ovipositor shining 

 blue-black. Venter yellow. Legs yellow, with minute black 

 hairs ; outer third of the femora, and the entire tibiae of the front 

 legs, black ; front tarsi white, terminal joints brown. AVings with 

 a uniform brownish tinge. 



Upwards of thirty specimens. Port Antonio, April. Many of 

 the specimens collected are immature. 



Micropeza producta Walker? List, etc., IV, 1056. 



One specimen, Port Antonio. Agrees fairly well with Walker's 

 description, but the specimen is immature. 



ORTALID^. 



Euxesta annonae Fabricius. 



Musca annoncE Fabr., Ent. System., IV, 358, 189. 



Tephiitis annotue Fabr.. System. Antl., 320, 10. 



Ortalis annoucv Wied., Auss. Zw., II, 403. 



Amethvsa anuoncc Scliiner, Novara, 283. 



Urophora quadrh'ittala Afacq., Hist. Nat. Dipt., II, 450 [I.w.]. 



Common, Port Antonio. This and the two following species were 

 usually found in the crooked corolla of a large Artstolochia (?). 



Euxesta costalis Fabricius. 



3fiisca cosfalis Fabr., Ent. System., IV, 360, 196. 

 Dacus costalis Fabr., Syst. Autl., 278. 

 Ortalis costalis Wied., Auss. Zw., IT, 464. 

 Dacus aculeatiis Fabr., Syst. Antl., 375 [Loew]. 



One specimen. Port Antonio. 



Euxesta sp. 



Port Antonio. 



TRYPETIDJE. 



Trypeta (Aciura) insecta Loew, Mcmogr., I, 72, Tab. ii, f. 8. 

 Common, Port Antonio. 



Trypeta (Ensina) humilis Loew, Monogr., I, 81, Tab. ii, f. 17. 

 Acinia pice iota Bigot, R. de la Sagr., etc., 824, Tab. xx, f. 10 [Loew]. 



Common, Port Antonio. 



Trypeta (Tephritis) fucata Fabricius. 



Musca fucata Fabr., Ent. System., IV, 359, 194. 

 Tephritis fucata Wied., Auss. Zw., II, 505. 



Common, Kingston. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



*Trypeta (Urophora) avala Walker, List, etc., IX, 1020. 



[Doubtful wiiether it belongs to Trypetidte or Ortalidse, Loew.] 

 "It is a small Ortalid." — Osteu-Sackeu. 



*Trypeta Dinia Walker, List, etc., IV, 1040. 



[Perhaps allied to Trifpeta (Hexarhceta) eximia Wied. , or, perhaps, 

 a bad description of a variety of this species, Loew]. 



*Trypeta Ocresia Walker, List, etc., IV, 1010. 

 [Atro/u.va Loew]. — Osteu-Sackcn. 



SAPROMYZIDjE. 



Lauxania albovittata Loew, Centur., II. 79. 

 Three specimens, Port Antonio. 



Physegenua variegata Loew. 



Lauxania -jaru\i;ahi Loew, Centur., I, 83. 



Common, Port Antonio. 



EPHYDRID^. 



Ochthera exculpta Loew, Moiiogr., I, 160. 



Four specimens, Kingston; Port Antonio. 



HIPPOBOSCIDtE. 



*01fersia propinqua Walker, List, etc., IV, 1141. 



*Oriiithomyia erythrocephala Leach, Eprob. Ins., 13, 3. Tab. xxvii, f. 4-6. 

 Walker, List, etc., IV, 1143. 



*Oriiithoinyia fulvifrons Walker, List, etc.. IV, 1145. 



*Ornithomyia unicolor Walker, 1. c, 1144. 



*Ornithomyia vicina Walker, 1. c, 1144. 



NYCTERIBID^. 



*Strebla vespertilionis Fabricius. Walker, List, IV, 1146. 



Hippo/'osca c'fspoiilionis Fabr., 8yst. Autl., 339, G. 



Strebia avium Macq., Dipt. Exot., oe Suppl , 127. 2 (ou pigeons and parrots). 



Sirebla Wiedemann i Kolenati, Horae Soc. Eut. Koss. II, 96, Tab. xv. C, 36. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF A NEW SUBGENUS AND NEW SPECIES OF ARVICO- 

 LINE RODENTS FROM BRITISH COLUMBIA AND WASHINGTON. 



BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Tetramerodon' siibgen. nov. 

 Type Arvicola ( Tetrai?ifrodoii) tchamcrtis Rlioads, sp. nov., Victoria, B. C. 



Sahgeneiic characters. — Dentition as in the subgenus Myuomes 

 Rafinesque'^ as restricted by Dr. Coues-(Mon. N. Ainer. Rodentia, 

 1877, p. 153), but differing therefrom in the middle upper mohir 

 lacking a [)OStero-internal trianglar loop. This tooth is composed of 

 an anterior loop, a closed antero-extei'ior triangle, a closed median 

 inner triangle, and a postero-exterior triangle. Other characters 

 as in Mynomes. See, below, dentition of A. borealis, Fig. 1. 



This section of the genus Arvlcola includes a larger number of 

 species than any other, whereas typical Mynomes is restricted to very 

 few. Among those which class under Telramerodon may be men- 

 tioned A. xatdJiogiiathus, chvoiorrhinus, borealis, loiu/icaiidus, altieolas, 

 mogollonensls, mordax, nanus, macropus, pauperrinius, townsendi, 

 tetramerus (1. c. ), edax, pJueus, and operarius. 



Of Mynomes we have A. pemisylvanicus, terrcenovoi, aztecus, and 

 drummondii f 



Prof. Baird characterized the subgenus Hemiotomys (= Myonomes 

 of Coues) as having the middle " upper molar with five closed tri- 

 angles, the last two sometimes subconfiuent," taking no notice of 

 the species then known, as edax, town send i, xantJiognathas, and 

 borealis, in which, to a greater or less degree, the posterior triangle 

 shows no indication of the subdivision seen in ^4. pennsylvanicus. The 

 four-triangled species greatly outnumber those which possess five, 

 and it is fully in accord with the system that they should be either 

 separated subgenerically from Alynomes or that this subgenus be re- 

 characterized. 



1 From Teframe^-es -^ {ouv-piivtt'd, iiud Odoiis = toi)th. 



''■ Dr. Coues' reasons for changing Ratiuesqiie's original spelling to Myoiio)nes 

 are insufficient. If retained at all, it must remain Mynomes. 




1894.] NATHRAL SCIENCES OF PHII>ADELPHIA. 283 



If the latter course be adopted, we still have an inexact diagnosis 

 to accommodate the three or four exceptional species which develop 

 the fifth triangle, and the name 3Iijiwme.% based by Rafinesque on a 

 five-triaugled species, becomes inapplicable. On this account, it 

 seems to me quite consistent with the exact subdivision of the other 

 members of the genus Arvkola, as well as necessary, that the sub- 

 genus Tefnonerodon be adopted. 



Arvicola (Tetrainerodon) tetramerus sp. nov. Type Xo. 3-27, ad., ^ , Coll. of 

 S. X. Ehoads, Beacon Hill Park, Victoria, British Columbia, Mav 19, 1892. 

 Coll. by S. X. R. 



Desen'ption. — Size medium, about the same as A. pe)insi/lvcmicus. 

 Tail rather long. Color above, grizzled blackish-brown, beneath 

 clear ash. Feet grayish-brown. Tail bicolor, matching corre- 

 sponding surfaces of body, well-haired and penicillate. 



Dentition as in Mi/novie.^, but lacking the posterior fifth section 

 of middle upj^er molar, typical of that subgenus. 



Measurements (of type). — Total length, 170 mm; tail vertebrae, 

 50; hind foot, 23. Average of five adults — Total, 175; tail, 48; 

 foot, 22. Skull — Total length, 26-5; basilar length, 24; zygomatic 

 breadth, 15; length of nasals, 7-5; incisors to post- palatal notch, 

 14-2; interorbital constriction, 3-4; length of mandible, 16; width 

 of mandible, 8-5. 



Ten specimens of this species were taken in the suburbs of Vic- 

 toria, in the dry, grassy woods of Beacon Hill Park, overlooking the 

 Strait of Fuca. 



They most nearly resemble townsendi from Puget Sound in essen- 

 tial characters. Compared with toivnseiidi the Victoria voles may 

 be readily distinguished by their much smaller size, blacker colora- 

 tion above, the greater relative width of the interorbital region, the 

 supraorbital ridges never meeting medially as in old towii.-tendl, and 

 the posterior margins of the frontals being rounded and but slightly 

 encroaching upon the parietals. This species differs essentially from 

 A. occidentalis and A. californicus as defined by Baird in its lack of 

 red or yellow tints. From A. montaiius Peale (fide Baird) tetramerus 

 differs in the greater relative length between the upper molars and 

 incisors, also in the posterior upper molar having four outer, salient 

 angles instead of three. Prof. Baird states there is a great similarity 

 between the colors of montanns and edax and that the former is 

 grayer than townsendi. In tetramerus the colors are much darker. 




284 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Evotomys pygmseus sp. nov. Type Xo. 247, ad. 9, (Wl, of S. N. Rhoads, 

 montli of Xisqually Eiver, Pierce Co., Wasliington. Col. by S. N. R. 



Description. — Size smallest of any described species of the genus. 

 Color above a rusty gray, lighter than c/cqjperi, dai'kei^t along the 

 top of head and back ; sides and belly muddy ash-gray. Margins 

 of ears and upper third of tail sooty. Feet light gray. Skull short 

 and wide, with relatively wide and flaring zygoma and brain case 

 and broad interorbital region. The audital bulUie are very much in- 

 flated, spheroidal, separated medially by less than 1 mm. , their greatest 

 transverse diameter being only 1 mm. less than the longitudinal. 

 The dentition is intermediate between that of E. orcideiitalis and JE. 

 californium, with the anterior lower molar of califomicus and the 

 posterior upper molar of occidentalls. In the latter case, however, 

 the two anterior lateral triangles are completely closed in jyygmmiis, 

 the second not connecting with the third as figured by Dr. Merriam^ 

 for occidentalis. The nasals do not i*each the posterior points of the 

 premaxillai'ies by li mm. 



MeasnremenU. — Total length, 120 mm; tail vertebrse, 34; hind 

 foot, 16. Skull — Total length, 21 ; l)asilar length, 18'4; zygomatic 

 width, 12; length of nasals, 6; incisors to post-palatal notch, 9; 

 interorbital constriction, 4-1 ; length of mandible, 12. 



The single specimen on which I have based the above diagnosis is 

 the only one of the genus secured by me in the Pacific coast district of 

 the northwest. It was captured under a log in the dense spruce 

 forest which covers the blufi' overlooking Puget Sound, at the 

 mouth of the Nisqually River. It is fully adult, with well-worn 

 teeth. This species may be known externally from its nearest geo- 

 graphic congeners by its small size. In color it is much lighter than 

 occidentalis, and (from the description) even paler than californicus. 



Evotomys gapperi saturatus sulwp. nov. Type No. 483, ad. 9. foil, of S. N. 

 Rhoads, Nelson, British C'oluinbia, Aug. 17, 1892. Col. by S. N. R. 



Description. — Size and proportions of E. gapperi, but much 

 darker, the " red" of back being dark chestnut, the sides and belly 

 dark grayish- plumbeous without ochraceous tints of gapperi. The 

 upper half of tail sooty black, strongly defined against gray of 

 lower half. Compared with that of gapperi, the skull is relatively 

 narrower, the nasals longer, the nasal premaxillary processes reach- 



' N. Amer. Fau., No. 4, Plate II, Figs. 1 and 2. 




1894.] NATURAI^ SCIENCES OF PHILADEI^PHIA. 285 



ing considerably behind base of nasals; the audital bullae are also 

 narrower, elonuate, and depressed. 



The dentition does not ditter from that of gapperi, but the other 

 characters of the skull of type, as above defined, show such con- 

 siderable differences from gapperi of eastern Canada that the ques- 

 tion of its specific value is yet an open one. 



Measurements. — Total length, 141 mm; tail vertebrre, 41; hind 

 foot, 19. Skull— Total length, 23-o; zygomatic width, 12-1; length 

 of nasals, 6*5; incisors to post-palatal notch, 10; interorbital con- 

 striction, 4-2; length of mandible, 18-2; width of mandible, (r2. 



One female (the type) was trapped on the banks of a small 

 stream flowing into Kootenai Lake, in the town limits of Nelson, in 

 the Selkirk Mountains. Two others were taken in the Rocky jNIouu- 

 tains, at Field, on the banks of the Kicking Horse River. 



Evotomys [^gapperil daicsoiii Merriam, the west Arctic representa- 

 tive, differs from saturatus in the opposite light phase of coloration, a 

 parallel case to that exhibited by the Hudsonian Chickadees, Paras 

 hudsonicKS, P. h. stoneyi, and P. h. columbianus. 



Notes on Boreal Arvicolas of Uncertain Status. 



Arvicola borealis Richardson. Rich., Zool. .Tour., No. 12, is^s, .517 ; Faun. Bor. 

 Anu-r., I, 1839. 127. And. and Bach., Quad, N. Amer., 1854, 134. 



Since the publication of the Monograph of North American Ro- 

 dentia, this species has been classed, on the authority of Dr. Coues, 

 as a subspecies of Arvicola j3ennsylvanicus. Several specimens from 

 the material examined by Dr. Coues in the preparation of his 

 monograph of the Arvicoliiue were subsequently presented to the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences. Among them I find two skins with 

 skulls and one specimen in alcohol enumerated in Dr. Coues' tabu- 

 lated lists of Arctic Arvicolas, which, after a careful study of 

 Richardson's two descriptions of A. borealis, I am convinced should 

 be referred to that species. The characters exhibited by these speci- 

 mens are those of an animal quite distinct from pennsylvanicus and 

 justify restoring borealis to the full specific rank originally given it. 



Audubon and Bachman (sup. cit.) have clearly restated the ex- 

 ternal characters of this vole from a personal examination of Rich- 

 ardson's types. 



Its cranial characters remain undefined, and may be described as 

 follow : — 




286 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



Arvicola borealis. Toimtype, No. 1,908, ad. 9, Coll. of Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. 

 (No. S,4(»8, Sm. Inst. : vid. Cones, N. A. Eod., p. 206, t. li). Fort Anderson, 

 North of Great Bear Lake (no date), E. McFarlane, Collector. 



Skidl. — Remarkably angular, 

 shallow and flattened, its anterior 

 jugal breadth exceeding the squa- 

 mosal, much as in Synaptomys. 

 Posterior ends of frontals pro- 

 duced in ii long, slender, strap- 

 shaped process, beginning just be- 

 hind the interorbital constriction, 

 between the projecting anterior 

 corners of the squamosal bones 

 and terminating in a dove-tailed 

 Fig. I. Skull and molar teeth of process between the acutely point- 



Aiz'icola dorca/is Rk'h. ■, i , i i , • 



^ TT«„„,. r.^^fi 1^ e ■ 4 / T +■+ ed and extended anterior corners 



a. Upper pronle ot cranium.* />. Lett 

 mandibular series. c. Left maxillary of the parietals. Interorbital 



^^"*?*^- constriction narrow, acutely com- 



pressed, its single median ridge depressed below the frontal plane. 

 Audital bulhe subtriangular, depressed, long and narrow. Denti- 

 tion as given (1. c.) for the subgenus Tetramerodon, of which, with 

 A. xanthogiiafhus and A. chrotorrhinus, it forms a typical represen- 

 tative in the lack of any attempt at a posterior inner fold, or angle, 

 in the middle upper molar. The anterior trefoil of the first lower 

 molar is less deeply indented than in any Arvicola I have examined. 

 The mandibles present no peculiar characters. An incipient groove 

 can be detected, almost evenly dividing the face of each upper in- 

 cisor. 



Arvicola drummoudi Aud. and Bach. 



Five specimens of meadow mice, three taken on the shores of Lac La 

 Hache, B. C, and two from the valley of the Kicking Horse River, 

 at Field, B. C, I had {n-eviously described in manuscript as new, 

 under the name Arvicola {Mynomes) microcephalus. 



The description of A. driimmondi (Aud. and Bach., Quad. N. 

 Anier., 1854, 166) I have since found to correspond so closely in 

 every particular with the characters of these specimens, it seems far 

 preferable to make tiiem the basis of a full restoration of driim- 



About one and one-half times natural size. 




1894.] NATt^RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



mondi to a place in nomeuclature. It may lie stated that Richard- 

 sou's A. novebonicen^ls (Raf. ), the name under which that author 

 described the type of flntmmondi was said by him to have come from 

 the dry uphmds of tlie Rocky Mountains inhabited by A. .noithog- 

 nathus. This woukl indicate a locality far north of that from which 

 ray specimens came, also a less aquatic environment, and a somewhat 

 ditierent faunal region. Audubon and Bachman give, * ' Valleys of 

 the Rocky Mountains," as the habitat of dnonmondi. More com- 

 plete collections from the whole length of the intermediate country 

 may show that the Lac La Hache animal is separable from the 

 northern one ; in such an event the name microcephahis may still be 

 applicable to it. 



Arvicola (Mynomes) drummondi. Topotype Xo. 418, arl. ^. Coll. of S. X. 

 Elioads; Lac La llacbe, B. Columbia, Juuc 30th, 1892. Vol. })y S. N. E. 



Description. — Size considerably less than that of A. pennsijlvan- 

 icus; ears moderate ; tail short and scantily haired ; skull small, 

 highly arched, compressed and elongate, the orbits much narrowed 

 liy the compression of the zygoma ; eyes very small, as in Pitymys ; 

 feet as originally described by Richardson. Teeth of typical Mynomes, 

 the postero-internal section of middle upper molars as large as its 

 opposing outer triangle. Color above grizzled black-brown, beneath 

 a clear hoary plumbeous, lacking the muddy wash mentioned by Aud. 

 and Bach. Tail sooty above, grayer beneath. 



Measurements. — Total length, 155 mm; tail vertebrae, 40; hind 

 foot, 20 (average of four adults — Total, 153 ; tail, 39; foot, 19). 

 ►Skull — Total length, 24-2 ; Jia-silar length, 22 ; zygomatic width, 

 13-5; length of nasals, 6-6; incisor to post-palatal notch, 12-2; inter- 

 orbiial constriction, 4 ; length of mandible, 14-8; width of mandible, 

 8-2. 



This species resembles A. nanus,^ but its possession of a five 

 triangled middle upper molar distinguishes it from that species, 

 which, as Dr. Merriam expressly states, has but four triangles. The 

 two specimens from Field show no differences from the one above 

 described. 



Incidental to this rather cursory study of the principal group of 

 North American Arvicolince it is worthy of mention that the large 

 vole captured by Mr. Drummond " at the foot of the Rocky Moun- 



' Merriam, N. Amer. Fau., No. 5, 1891, 63. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



tains," and described minutely by Richardson (Fan. Bor. Amer. , 

 1829, 120), under caption of "Arvicola riparins (Ord?)," is almost 

 certainly a member of the genus Aidaeomijs.^ A comparison of the 

 description of this animal given by Richardson and that given by 

 Audul)on and Bachman,' when they renamed it A. richirdsoni, with 

 my type of Aviacomys arvicoloides, leaves very little room for doubt 

 that the two are generically the same. Their specific differences con- 

 sist in the much longer tail of arvlcololde><, its tail also being black 

 above and nearly unicolor, its feet black, and the mouth and chops 

 grayish-brown, like the surrounding parts. 



An examination of Richardson's introductory notice of Mr. 

 Drummond's travels, coupled with the statement that the specimen 

 was taken in summer, fix the type locality of A. richardtionl within, 

 say, fifty milffe of Athabasca Pass in the Rocky Mountains, among 

 the foothills traversed by the Columbia Portage trail connecting the 

 head waters of the Athabasca, Saskatchewan, and Columbia Rivers, 

 in latitude 53°. ^4. arvicoloides was taken somewhat east of the 

 dividing ridge of the Cascade Mountains in latitude 47°. Should 

 the correctness of this interpretation be proved, Drummond's speci- 

 men should stand as Axdacomys richardsonl (Dekay).** 



« Ehoads, Amer. Nat., Feb. 1894, 182. 

 ' Quad. N. Amer., Ill, 1853, 163. 

 s N. Y. Zool., I, 1842. 91. 




1S94. ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



October 2. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Fifty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "A proposed Classification of the Fossorial 

 Hymenoptera of North America," by William J. Fox, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



October 9. 



Mr. Useljia C. Smith in the Chair. 



Thirty- two persons present. 



The deaths of Joseph Hyrtl and Oliver Wendell Holmes, M.D., 

 correspondents, were announced. 



A paper entitled ' ' A Study of the Systematic and Geographical 

 Distribution of the Decapod Family Atyidoc Kingsley," by Dr. 

 A. Ortmann, was presented for publicatiou. 



October 16. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 

 Sixty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Species of Fungi from various Localities," 

 by J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart, was presented for publication. 



Dlaoluea Tliomasll Rex. — Du. Geo. A. Rex presented specimens 

 of Diachcea Thomasii, a species of Jtlyxomycetes recently described by 

 him, and commented upon the variations of the species and its rela- 

 tions to the adjoining genera. 



The specimen's differed in some respects from the original speci- 

 mens from which the diagnostic description had been drawn, making 

 it advisable to supplement that description. 



The new specimens were a part of some recent gatherings made 

 by ^Ir. Lancaster Thomas at the original locality for the species at 

 Cranberry, N. C, in July and August of this j^ear. 



The sporangia of the type specimens were frequently grouped in 

 clusters, but with rare exceptions they grew upon separate stipes. 

 20 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



In the receut gatherings, however, the sporangia show a reniarkalile 

 tendency to aggregation into clumps of from twelve to twenty, the 

 stipes growing together to form a thick compound stipe surmounted 

 by the densely clustered sporangia. In some cases these are dis- 

 torted by crowding, having their adjoining walls grown together, 

 constituting stipitate iethalia. 



The clustered sporangia have usually a purplish metallic lustre 

 rather than the silver or bronze lustre of the single forms. 



The capillitium differs from the type only in the presence of au 

 extraordinary number of snudl dark-violet colored bulbous thicken- 

 iugs occurring upon the threads in their course, similar to those found 

 in the capillitium of certain species of DUhpnimii and Ghoiidrio- 

 deriiia. These thickenings are ellipsoidal, turbinate or conical in 

 shape and occur more frequently near the ends of the threads. 



The speaker thought that these peculiar tliickenings were of 

 special interest on account of their bearing upon the relative position 

 of the genus DiacJuen in the systematic classification of the JNIyxo- 

 mycetes. As they are almost exclusively found in certain species of 

 the Didymiaceie and the single species of the genus Sjniinafla, this 

 species at least, of the genus Diaclura would seem to be connected 

 with the CalcareiL' by good structural characters other than the mere 

 existence of granules of lime in the stipes and columellas of the 

 sporangia. 



The bulbous thickenings were also found in the capillitium of the 

 type specimens but not conspicuously, or to a greater extent tlian 

 they are sometimes found in the other species of Dlarhaa. 



The speaker concluded that the genus DiacJicca was properly as- 

 sociated with the Order Didymiaceie (including the genus *S)j/(»(orm) 

 notwithstanding its points of resemblance to the genus Lamproderma 

 suggesting its possibly closer relationship to the Order Stemonitacea'. 



The differences between the present gatherings and the former ones 

 were probably due to climatic causes, the excessive rainfall and great 

 atmospheric humidity prevailing in the North Carolina mountains 

 during July and tiie early part of August of the present year, caus- 

 ing an exuberant development of plasmodium wliich resulted in a 

 growtli of unusually" aggregated and icthalioid forms 



October 28. 

 Dr. 0. N. Tkirck in the Chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled "Notes on the Mammals of Monroe and Pike 

 Counties, Pennsylvania," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for 

 {)ublication. 



The death of F. Oden Horstmann, a member, was announced. 




1894.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 291 



October 30. 



Mk. Charles P. Perot in the Chair. 



Thiit\'-three persons present. 



The- death of William Ik. Lejee, a men)l)er, was announced, 



A paper entitled "On a Collection of Batrachia and Reptilia from 



the Island of Hawaii," by Edw. I). Cope, was presented for publi- 

 cation. 



Mr. Horace Binder was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



A PROPOSED CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSORIAL HYMENOPTERA OF 



NORTH AMERICA. 



BY ^VILLIAM J. FOX. 



The arrangement of our Fossores contained in the following pages, 

 I trust will be of some service to students of these insects. It has 

 been evident for some time that the existing arrangement, that con- 

 tained in Cresson's Synopsis,^ is of little value, as it is too superficial. 

 Entirely too many families, without characters to substantiate them, 

 were recognized : the Sphegidie, for instance, which were divided into 

 no less than nine families. Accepting these nine families would, it 

 seems to me, necessitate tlie erection of families for such genera as 

 Neolarra, BotJujnostdltus, Trypoxylon and others, which stand more 

 or less isolated and yet possess characters which connect them in one 

 wa}'^ or another with the formerly existing families and would form 

 more distinct families, were they so recognized, than, say, the Mel- 

 linidas Ampulicid:e, Nyssonid;e or Bembicidie. How these nine 

 supposed families have been disposed of, the following pages will 

 show. 



Saussure's recent classification'- is not satisfactory, inasmuch as it 

 is incomplete, and, moreover, his conclusions, particularly regarding 

 the Pompilidte, are not well founded. He makes two tribes of this 

 family, the Pompiliens and Pepsiens, separating them on a very 

 trivial character — the position of insertion of the first recurrent 

 nervure in the second submarginal cell, a character which, in my ex- 

 perience, has always proved variable. Under the first mentioned 

 tribe he includes Cerojiales, which he seems to consider as not worthy 

 of more than generic rank, while he forms a tribe for the reception 

 of Pepsis, which should be placed with the Pompiliens, if anywhere. 

 The Mutillidre and Sapygidoc are considered as subfamilies of the 

 Scoliidse; these are ranked as families in this paper. The old 

 families Pemphredonida and Crabronidtc and Oxijhelus, he considers 

 as tribes of equal value to the Nyssonidse, Bembicidie and Larridte, 



1 Mr. Cresson states that this was simply compiled from the works of other 

 authors. 



^ Grandidier's Hist. Madagascar, XX. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



all of which are ranked as tribes of the Sphegidae. The two families 

 mentioned and Oxijbelus are treated as subfamilies in this paper as 

 they are more distinct than are the numerous tribes of the Bembi- 

 cime and Sphegiuiie. 



It is hoped that the paper may at least call forth improvements 

 on the classification suo-gested. 



5i5^ 



MUTILLID^. 



I regard this as a well-defined famil}^ disagreeing with some 

 authors who place it as a subfamily of the Scoliidte. The wingless 

 females are, in my ojnnion, sufficient to separate these insects from 

 the Scoliidiv. In the latter family the intermediate cox?e are widely 

 separated, while in the Mutillidaj they are not separated by a dis- 

 tance equalling their width. In the generic table below, Plwtopsis 

 Elake is considered as synonymous with Sphairophtlialma Blake, as a 

 comparison of the two genera fails to show any differential charac- 

 ters. The family can be separated into two tribes as follows: — 



Females (as far as known) .without ocelli; marginal cell of ( J ) wings 

 more or less short, not reaching by any means the apex of 

 Aving ; some of the nervures generally obsolete, particularly 

 those forming the third discoidal cell MUTILLINI. 



Females with ocelli; marginal cell of (<?) wings long and pointed, 

 reaching almost the apex of wings; all the nervures distinct, 

 never obsolete MYllMOSINl. 



Tribe I.— MUTILLIXI. . 



Contains the genera Psammotherma,^ Mat'dla, Spliaerophthahna 

 ( = Photopsls m i^t.), Brachycidis and Chyphotes, and is defined as 

 above. The genera may be tabulated as follows: — 



1 — Antennae simple in both sexes 2 



Antennae of male flabellate Psammotherma Latr. 



2 — 'Eyes ovate, emarginate w'ithin the ^ , entire in 9 ; thorax of 

 9 generally oblong in shape, truncate behind. Muiilla Linn6. 

 Ej-es round, entire; thorax generally ovate, rounded pos- 

 teriorly 3 



3 — Intermediate tibite w ith two apical spurs 4 



Intermediate tibisy with but one apical spur; w ing stigma very 

 large; body smooth, glabrous; marginal cell usually shorter 

 than stigma; autennfu longer than head and thorax 

 Brachycistis Fox. 



^ Probably does not occur in America, the species described being very 

 likely erroneously reported from Florida. 




2f>4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACAnEJIY OF [1894. 



4 — Abdomen at most subpetiolate; thorax of 9 divided into more 

 than two parts (bodj^ at least the thorax, coarsely seulptnred). 



2 Sl'T13:K01MI'rHALMA* Bl. 



Abdomen connected by a long, slender petiole; thorax (9) di- 

 vided into two distinct parts only; ^ unknown. 



4. ('IIVI'IIOTES BI. 



Tril)e II.— MYRMOSINI. 



Proposed for the genera Mijrutom and Mefliocn, and is character- 

 ized chiefly by the females jiossessing distinct ocelli. Ihit few 

 species have been described from America. 



Apex of abdo7Ben (J^ "I, unarmed: wings with three snbmargiual 

 cells; '' cubital nervure of hind w iiigs received by the submedian 

 cell at apex; thorax (J) coin posed apparently of two parts; 

 body rugose ( 9 ) Myrmosa Latr. 



A])ex of abdomen ( <? ) armed with a curved spine; two submargi- 



nal cells; cubital nervure of hind wings received considerably 



before the apex of submedian cell; thorax (9) divided into 



three parts; body smooth, shining and very ant-like. 



^rKTiiocA Ijatr. 



If the genus Thyiuius occurs in America as reported by Patton 

 (Ent. News, III, 104) another tril)e will have to be added to this 

 family. I doul)t, liowever, the existence of American representa- 

 tives. 



SCOLIIDJE. 



This family is sufficiently characterized by both sexes being 



winged to separate it from the iMutillida?. The North American 



representatives comprise three tribes," as follows: — 



Ej^es emargjnate; spur of fore tiliijc large, strongly curved, dilated, 



and truncate at end; intermediate tibiie w ith one spur; abdomen 



of ^ armed with three spines at apex SCOLIINI. 



Eyes entire ; spur of fore tarsi not much curved or dilated, either 

 pointed or bifurcate at end ; intenuediate tibijc witli one or two 

 spurs; abdomen of $ with but one spine at apex. 

 Sexes similar in form ; marginal cell broadened toward the 

 base (in our genera, the 9 '« have tlie marginal cell open at apex) ; 

 antenme short in both sexes TYPHllNl. 



■* This may ultimately prove but a division or sul)yenus of Jlfn/i7Ia. 



^ There are really four snbuiarj^inals, as the cubital ncr\ ure extends out to 

 the apex of wing. 



8 After Saussure. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIKNCKS OP PHTT.ADEI.PHIA. 295 



8exes dissimilar in form ; 9 robust, <J loug aud slender ; 

 marginal cell ( 9 ) narrowed toward base (in our genera the mar- 

 ginal cell is always closed); antennaj in 9 s^bort, in $ long and 



slender, as long or longer than head and thorax 



MYZI^INr (/Yesu7es Sauss.) 



Tribe T.— t^COLIINI. 



Two genera occur in our fauna, as follows: — 



Anterior wings with only one recurrent nervure .... Scolia Fabr. 

 Anterior wings with two recurrent nervures Elis Fabr. 



Each of these genera may be divided into subgenera by the num- 

 ber of submarginal cells. In the subgenus Triscolia there are three 

 cells, while in D!--<coUii there are two. In Trielis three, in Dielis two. 



Tribe II.— TIPHIINI. 



The lirst and second submarginal cells merged into one through the 

 disappearance of the first transverso-cubital nervure ; base of 

 tirst aljdominal segment produced angularly or dentate on each 

 side; intermediate tibite with one spur Tiphia Fabr. 



Three submarginal cells, the first transverso-cubital nervure present, 

 but abbreviated, not reaching the cubital nervure; base of first 

 abdominal segment not produced or dentate at base ; inter- 

 mediate tibife with two spurs 



EPOMIDIOPTERONSichel (= Pr/ /•«!'//>///«). 



Tri))e III.— MYZININI. 



This tril)e is identical with Saussure's "Section des Plesiites. " 

 Plesta seems to be synonymous with Mijzlne Latr. The latter has 

 priority, being described two years in advance of Plesia. But one 

 genus, Mi/zine, is found in America, which may be distinguished by the 

 tribal characters given above. 



SAPYGID^. 



Intermediate coxi3e contiguous ; legs, except tibial spurs, unarmed ; 

 no pygidiul area ; apex of ( <? ) abdomen without spines. These 

 characters seem sufficient to keep these insects distinct from the 

 preceding family, to which they have been assigned by some authors, 

 and, moreover, the first and second ventral segments are contiguous, 

 while in the Scoliidie they are widely separated. Sapijya, our only 

 genus, has the eyes emarginate within, the intermediate tibiie with 

 two spurs. For several species having the vertex tuberculate, the 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEaiY OF -. [1894. 



name Eusapyga has been proposed bj Cresson, but these form only 

 a subgenus at the most. 



POMPILIDJE. 



This is a distinct family characterized by the very long posterior 

 legs, long antenujB, and by the first and second ventral segments 

 being not widely separated. The species possess no pygidium. I 

 would separate the fiimily into three tribes, placing the Ceropalini 

 first, as I consider the genus Ceropales as being closest to the Sapy- 

 gidas. 



Sting sheath of 9 projecting, prominent ; eyes slightly emarginate 

 within, near the top; labrum large, projecting ; autennpe never 



curled after death, situated well above the clypeus 



'. CEROPALINI. 



Sting sheath of 9 not projecting ; eyes entire. 



First discoidal cell not longer than first submarginal ; submedian 

 cell of anterior wings longer than the median on the externo- 

 median nervure ; second discoidal cell not half the size of the 

 third; labrum exserted, longer than the clypeus; abdomen com- 

 pressed apically NOTOCYPHlNI. 



First discoidal cell longer than lirst submarginal ; labrum not 

 exserted ; length of inedian cell of anterior wings variable; 

 second discoidal cell at least half the size of the third; abdomen 

 rarely compressed POMPILINI. 



Tribe I.— CEROPALINI. 



This tribe contains but a single genus, Ceropales, having the char- 

 acters given above. The species are always more or less ornamented 

 with yellow^, some being extremely handsome. 



Tribe II.— NOTOCYPHlNI. 



The genus NotQcyphus constitutes this tribe, which differs chiefly 

 from the Ceropalini by the non-exserted sting sheath. 



Tribe III.— POMPILINI. 



The Pompilini contains the tj^pical forms of the family and is, by 

 far, the largest tribe. Pepsis, which Saussure considers as a tribe, 

 should, in my opinion, be placed in the tribe Pompilini, as its charac- 

 ters will not warrant a tribal distinction. Parapompllus Cress, (non 

 Sm.), Planiceps Latr., and Ajyorus Spin., seem to be merely groups 

 of the genus Pompilus, as has been pointed out by Kohl.'' Epipom- 



^ Verb, zool.-bot. Gesell., Wien, XXXIV, pp. 33-58. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PH rr.ADEI.PHIA. 297 



]3ilus Kohl is scarcely worthy of generic distinction, and should be 

 treated as of equal value as Parapompilus Cress. 



1 — Anterior wings with three subiuarginal cells 2 



Anterior wings with two submarginal cells 9 



2 — Third** ventral segment with a transverse furrow (indistinct in 



the $ of some species) 3 



Third ventral segment without a transverse furrow 6 



3 — First recurrent uervure received by the second submarginal cell 

 in or about the middle. Hind tarsi (^) not flattened .... 4 

 First recurrent nervure received by the second submarginal cell 

 not far from its base, and considerably before its middle. Hind 

 tarsi ( $ ) flattened. Fifth, or fifth and sixth ventral segments 

 ( S- ) nearly always with long, stiff hair, often forming two tufts. 

 ISIetathorax with a more or less developed tubercle before each 



stigma Pepsis Fabr. 



4 — Hind tibiie not spinose, or scarcely so; submedian cell of fore wings 

 generally but slightly longer than the median on the externo- 



medial uervure 6 



Hind tibice more or less spinose, generally serrato spinose, most 



strongly* so in the 9 5 



o — Submedian cell of fore wings longer than the median on the ex- 



terno-medial nervure. . . . Salius Fabr. (^ PrioGnerais Sch.). 



Submedian cell of fore wings of the same length as the median 



on the externo-medial nervure (eyes converging somewhat 



towards the vertex) Calicurgus Lep.'-* 



6 — MaxilltB of 9 with a bunch of long hair at the base • 



Agenia'" Schiodte 



Maxillse of 9 naked Pseudagenia"' Kohl. 



7 — Prothorax shorter than the metathorax 8 



Prothorax longer than the metathorax; head very flat and trans- 

 verse, the clypeus planate . PARAPOMPiLrs Cress, (non Smith). 

 8 — Legs strongly spinose ; prothorax on the sides not strongly de- 

 pressed; fore femora not swollen Pompilus Fabr. 



Legs, except tibial spurs, not spinose; prothorax strongly depres.sed 



on the sides; fore femora somewhat swollen , . . . . 



Epipompiei'S Kohl. 



* Second ventral of some authors. 



9 I have not seen this genus. 



"' I can find no characters to separate the $'s oi Agenia and Pseudagenia, 

 as the characters given by Kohl are not constant. The size of the second and 

 third submarginal cells varies, and while some species of ylgenia have the 

 wings banded, in others they are clear. Of our species of Agenia Cress., 

 cjipidus, congruits, and accepius are Pseudagenia. A new genus may have to 

 be erected for A. Belfragei Cress." Cameron is mistaken in referring A. nubifer, 

 viexicanus, chloris, floridiis, auripilis, and subvirescens to Pseudagenia, as 

 they all have the bunch of hair at base of maxillse. 




298 PROCREDTNGJS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



9— iletathorax posteriorly not eniargiiiute, not produced; anterior 

 femora swollen, their tarsi also rather thick ; abdomen subcom- 



pressed ri.AXiCEPS Latr. 



^letathorax i)osteriorly strongly emarginate, produced on each 

 side into a strong tooth; fore femora and tarsi not thickened; 

 alidomen not at all compressed Aponrs Spin. 



SPHEGID^. 



I would divide tliis vast family into five subfamilies as follows: 

 Spheginte, PemphredoniuiTe, Bembicinte, Oxybelime, and Crab- 

 roniuic. I have thought it best to unite under one head the Lar- 

 ridte, Bembicidse, Nysonida\ Mellinida^ and Philanthidte, as it is 

 impossible to find characters by which these families (so-called) can 

 be limited, even as subfamilies. The reader is referred to Hand- 

 lirsch's paper on Nysson and Bemhex.^^ It may seem out of place 

 to put the FemphredonintTS close to the Sphegina? ; yet I feel justified 

 in doing so on account of tlie abdominal petiole which is peculiar to 

 both subfamilies. 



Abdomen connected \\ ith the thorax l»y a slender pedicel of variable 

 length, and never sessile with the following segment. 

 Intermediate tibite with two apical spurs; claws nearly always 



more or less dentate within SPHEGIN/I^]. 



Intermediate tihiic with but one apical spur; claws never dentate 



within PEMPHREDONIN.E. 



Abdomen never connected w ith the thorax by a slender pedicel, at 

 the most subpetiolate as in Me/li/u(s. 

 ;More than one submarginal cell, if not, then the eyes are emar- 

 ginate within; neuration of posterior wings complete. 



BEMBICIN.E. 



Onlj-oue submarginal and two discoidal cells (e^'es entire). 



Metathorax with a long projection'-' at base; postscutellum with 



a squama on each side; submarginal cell confluent with tirst 



tfiscoidal cell; eyes elongate-ovate, fully three times longer 



than they are broad medially and converging towards the 



vertex . " OXYP.ELIN.E. 



Metathorax and postscutellum without spines or squamte ; sub- 

 marginal cell not confluent with the first discoidal cell; eyes 

 very broad, not more than twice as long as the width of their 

 broadest jiart and strongly diverging towards the vertex. 

 CRABRONIN.E. 



'' Sitzuugsb. K. K. Akud. der Wisseii., Wien, XCY, Abtli. 1. 



12 This is variously shaped, being sometimes bifurcate and agaiu spinose. 




1894.] XATr'HAL SCIENt'ES OF PIIILADKI.PHTA. 299 



Subfamily SPIIEGIN^. 

 Represented liy two tribes as follows : — 



Metatliorax uiiarnied, never dentate yi*HE(iINI. 



Metathorax armed with two strong teeth . . . . AMIM'IjICINI. 



Tribe T.— SPHEGINI. 



Three genera belong to this tribe. They have numerous sub- 

 genera or groups of species which at one time were regarded as 

 genera. Kohl's admirable paper, Die Hymenopterengruppe der 

 Spheciden, '•' will be of much value to the student of this group. 



Our genera may be r^eparated in the following manner; — 



Second submarginal cell receiving but one recurrent uervure; 9 

 with or w ithout tarsal comb Sfhex Linnf'. 



Second Bubmarginal cell receiving both nervures. 



o without tarsal coml) Sceliphkon King. 



O with tarsal comb Ammophila King. 



As Kohl's work is probably inaccessible to most workers, I give 

 here a table of groups of the three genera : — 



Genus SPHEX Linne'. 



Second submargiual cell small, much higher than liroad. 

 Claws with a single tooth in middle of inner margin; species 



more or less metallic Gi-. Chlokion. 



Claws with li-o teeth on inner margin; species not metallic. 

 Last ventral plate ( 9 ) compressed, almost keeled medially; claws 

 bidentate; clj'peus produced medially, with a deep sinus on 



each side Gr. Paemode;.s. 



Last ventral plate { 9 ) convex, not comiiressed; claws 2-5 dentate; 



clypeus entire or emarginate medially . . . Gr. Harpactopps. 



Seccmd submarginal cell as broad as high, rhomboidal, or rectangular. 



Metathorax without stigma! furrow; tarsal comb ( 9 ) wanting; 



petiole long and generally bowed Gr, Isodontia. 



Metathorax, with exception of aS'. Lucce, with a stigmal furrow; 

 tarsal comb (9) present, petiole straight Gr. Spiiex. 



Genus SCELIPHRON Klug. 



Prothorax longer than the dorsulum. 



Head from above not triangular, not much produced behind the 

 eyes (the prothorax is but little longer than the dorsulum). 

 Gr. Podium. 



1' Annaleu d. K. K. Xaturliistor. Hofinuseum, Wien, V, 2^o. 2, 3. 




'^00 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Head from above triangular, greatly produced behind the eyes 

 (the prothorax is longer than the dorsukuu, soutellum and 



postscutelluni combined) (j)r. Thigonopsis. 



Prothorax not as long, at any rate not longer than the dorsuluni, 



' Gr. ScEEiPHRON {=Pelopocus). 



Genus AMMOPHILA Kirby. 



Wings with two submarginal cells Gr. (,'oloptera. 



Wings with three submarginal cells. 



Second al)dominal segment elongate, forming with the first seg- 

 ment a long petiole Gr. Ammophii.a. 



Second abdominal segment more or less campanulate, the petiole 

 composed of but one joint (Jr. Psammophila. 



Tribe II.— AMPULICINI. 



The genus Ampulex is represented in North America by the sub- 

 genus Rhinopsls Westw.. It is distinguished by the rostrate clypeus 

 and by having two submarginal cells. The prothorax is long as in 

 Trigonopsis; the metathorax is many ridged and has very strong 

 transverse strife above and possesses two strong teeth. The first 

 submarginal cell is twice the length of the second. Marginal cell 

 with an appendiculation at apex. 



Subfamily PEMPHREDONIIsT^. 



The MimesidiB are here considered as representing a tribe of this 

 subfamily, and Miinesa Shuck, as a synonym of Pseu Latr. It is 

 impossible to separate these two genera as their characters vary, 

 particularly the neuration. It is true that the inner spur of hind 

 tibicC of Mimesa is peculiarly shaped, but this development will be 

 found in Psen, although in a lesser degree. 

 Anterior wings \\ith three submarginal cells; antennte situated far 



above the clypeus PSENINI. 



Anterior wings with two submarginal cells ; antenn;e close to base of 



clypeus PEMPHIIEUONINI. 



Tribe I.— PSENINI. 



Psen (= Miinesa), the only genus of this tribe, is easily distin- 

 guished by the characters given in the above table. The Psenini 

 further differ from the Pemphredonini bj' the peculiar inner spur of 

 hind tibiie. 



Tribe II.— PEMPHREDONINI. 



The tribe Pemphredonini comprises the greater number of the 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



genera of this subfamil}'. The following table is baf^ed chiefly on 

 that in Cre^^son's " Synopsis" : — 



Anterior wings witli ttiree discoidal cells, therefore with two recurrent 

 nervures. , 



Abdomen with a tolerably long petiole . . . Pemphredon Latr. 

 Abdomen with the petiole not longer than the hind coxae. 

 Posterior tibiae spinose or subserrate ; labium emarginate at tip.'* 



DiouoNTUs Curt. 



Posterior tibiae (excepting the calearia) unarmed ; labrura 



pointed at tip Passalcecus Shuck. 



Anterior w ings \\ith two discoidal cells, therefore only one recurrent 



nervure 



Anterior wings with one subniarginal cell . A^imoplanus Giraud. 

 Anterior wings with two submarginal cells. 



Petiole short; recurrent nervure joining the first transverso- 



cubital nervure Spilomena Shuck. 



Petiole long; recurrent nervure received in the middle of the 

 llrst submarginal cell Stigmus Jur. 



Subfamily BEMBICIJMJE. 



Under this head I unite the Larrida?, Bembicidte, Nyssonid^e, 

 Philanthidie, and ^Nlellinidte. The characters of these supposed 

 families are not sufficient or constant enough to sustain them in 

 such a rank, and are valueless in some cases, even as characters of 

 minor importance. As in the case of the Bembicidte, it is easy 

 to take such types as Bembex, Monedula, forms with rostrate 

 clypeus, and separate them into a family, apparently distinct from 

 the Nyssonidie and Larrida;, if these genera are compared, say, 

 with Larra and Ni/sso^i; but certain genera will be encountered, 

 Xeolavra and Buthynostethus for instance, whose proper position will 

 remain undetermined. Neolarra combines both Larrid, Bembicid 

 and Nyssonid characters, yet it will fit in neither of the families de- 

 fined. Bothijnostethus inclines to both the Larridie and Nyssonid?e, 

 and seems to be a connecting link between them. Sflzus and Sphe- 

 cui.<, although placed in the Bembicidie, possesses the neuration and 

 non-rostrate labrum, characters which bind them to the Nyssonidie. 

 It must not be forgotten that the labrum of the Nyssonidre is promi- 

 nent, indeed in Gonjtcs very prominent. Thirteen tribes of this 

 subfamily seem to be indictated, which number will undoubtedly 

 have to be reduced in the future. 



^* I have not seen Poleinistus Sauss., described as occurring in Madagascar 

 and Mexico. It is related to Passahxcus and Diodoiitiis. 




302 pr()cep:dings of the academy of [1894. 



1 — Labruin projecting in such a manner aw to cover the mandibles 



when closed, wx:)melinies rostriform 4 



Labriim projecting more or less,'-' but not covering the mandibles, 

 never rostriform ; antennje situated close to or not far fiom base 

 f)f clypeus ; if the latter is divided into three lobes the middle 



lobe is not greatly enlarged 2 



Labrum not at all projecting, hidden from view by mandibles ; 

 antenuse situated far above the clypeus ; middle lobe of latter 



greatly enlarged PHILANTHINI. 



2 — Mandibles emarginate on outer nuirgiu (except iu Trypoxylon) . o 



Mandibles not emarginate o 



3— Three submarginal cells; intermediate tibiie with two spurs. 



Second submarginal cell not petiolate; ai)ical joint of antennae 



{$) normal MELLININI. 



Second submarginal cell petiolate ; apical joint of antenuje ( $ ) 



peculiarly shaped NYSSONINI. 



Two submarginal cells ; intermediate tibi;e with one spur. 



NEOLAKRINI. 



4 — Intermediate tibia» armed with two si»urs at apex; submedian 

 cell of posterior wings extending far beyond the median on the 

 externo-medial nervure; labrum shorter than the clypeus, gene- 

 rally rounded anteriorly; ocelli distinct STIZINI. 



Intermediate tibi;e with but one spur at apex; submedian cell of 

 posterior wings not extending beyond the median on the ex- 

 terno-medial nervure; labrum longer than the clypeus, rostri- 

 form ; ocelli more or less imperfect EEMBICINI. 



5 — Hind ocelH normal 6 



Hind ocelli more or less distorted LARRINI. 



6 — Eyes entire 7 



Eyes emarginate within TRYPOXYLONINI. 



7 — Second submarginal cell not petiolate 8 



Second submarginal cell i)etiolate 10 



8 — Middle tibiae armed with two spurs at apex 9 



Middle tibite with one spur at apex LYRODINI. 



iJ--Eyes {$) touching above; second submarginal cell receiving both 



recurrent uervures AST ATI XI. 



Eyes {$) not touching on the vertex, widely separated; first and 

 second submarginal cells each receiving a recurrent nervure . . 



DIPLOPLECTRIXI. 



10 — No pygidial area (two submarginal cells) .... MISCOPHINI. 

 A pygidial area (three submarginal cells) 

 . BOTHYXOSTETHIX^I. 



Tribe I.— PHILAXTHINI. 

 Hind femora more or less thickened at apex, truncate, and produced 

 beneath Cerceris Latr. (=-£7i(cercem Cr.). 



^'^ Astatiiii and Uioploploctriui seem to be cxeeptions to this (lefiiiitii)n, or 

 else the hil)nim projeels so little a.s to he iiuliseernihle. 




18 94.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Hind femora more or less narrowed at apex, not truncate, and not 

 produced beueath. 

 Abdomen with first segment nol at all petiolate. 

 Eyes entire within; submedian cell of posterior wings much 

 shorter than the median on the externo-medial nervure; J 



with a distinct pygidial area Aphilantjioi'S Patt. 



Eyes more or less emarginate within; submedian cell of posterior 

 wings as long or slightly longer than the median on the ex- 

 terno-medial nervure; 9 without a pygidial area. 



• PiiiLAXTHUS Fabr. 



Abdomen with hist segment subpetiolate, as in MelUnus. 



Th ACHY PUS Kl. 



Tril)e II.— MELLIXIXJ. 



In this tribe I include MelUnus and Gori/fes, separating them from 

 the Xyssonini chiefly because the apical joint of the i antennrc is 

 normal and is not crescent or otherwise shaped as in the Nyssonini; 

 also because the second subniargiual cell is not petiolate as in that 

 tribe. 



Antenme well separated, situated close to base of clypeus, anterior 

 margin of clypeus denticulate; a recurrent nervure received by 

 the third submarginal cell; abdomen always with first segment 

 always petioliform ^NIkllinus Fabr. 



Antcnnic approximate, generally w ell separated from base of clypeus; 

 anterior margin of clj-peus rarely or never dentate; third sub- 

 marginal cell never receiving a recurrent nervure, abdomen 

 rarely with the hist segment itetioliform . . . Gokytks Latr. 



The genera Hoplist(-% Dienoplux and Euspougns are identical with 

 Gorytea 



Tribe III.— NYSSONINI. 



Prothorax above subtjuadrate, longer than dorsulum; metathorax not 

 strongly spiuose; (posterior femora beneath at apex, produced 

 into a stout tooth), form slender. 

 Submedian cell of anterior \\ ings much longer than the median 

 on the externo-medial nervure; abdomen without a pale spot on 

 each side of the second dorsal segment . . . Didineis Wesm. 

 Submedian cell of anterior wings a little shorter than the median 

 on the externo-medial nervure; abdomen with a pale spot on 

 each side of second dorsal segment Alyson Jur. 



Prothorax abo\e very narrowly transverse; metathorax \\ith two 

 long sjiines (tooth of posterior femora not so strong as in the 

 ju-eceding two genera); form robust NvssoN Latr. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



In the foregoing table Paranysson and Hypom/sson are considered 

 synonymous with Nyssou. The lack of the thii-d submargiual cell 

 in N. {Ilyponysson) hicolor is simply an anomaly.^'' I have recently 

 received another anomalous species (which is new) from New Mexico, 

 which lacks the second (petiolated) submarginal cell. 



Tribe IV.— STIZINI. 



Marginal cell about t\A ice as long as the first submargiual; spurs of 

 hind tibiie enlarged in the 9 , and the pygidium well developed; 

 abdomen ( $ ) with a single spine at apex . . . Sphecius Dhlb. 



Marginal cell much shorter than the first submarginal; spurs of hind 

 tibipe short in both sexes, not enlarged; no pygidium, at the 

 most with two short ridges on each side of apical portion of 

 last dorsal abdominal segment; abdomen {$) with three spines 

 at apex Stizus Latr. 



Bembecinus and Mecjastizus are considered synonymous with Stizus 

 in the foregoing table." 



Tribe V.— BEMBICINI. 



Anterior ocellus linear, transversely arcuate. 



Maxillary palpi six-jointed, labial palpi four-jointed. Metatho- 

 rax excavated posteriorly, compressed laterally; last ventral 



segment ( $ ) with three spines Bembidula Burm. 



Maxillary palpi four-jointed, labial palpi two-jointed; metathorax 

 flat or convex behind, not compressed laterally; last ventral 



segment ( $ ) with a single spine 



Bembex Fabr. {=3ficrobembex Patt.). 



Anterior ocellus elliptic, roimd or reuiform. 



Maxillary palpi three-jointed, labial palpi one-jointed; anterior 

 ocellus longitudinally elliptic; maxillae very long, reaching the 



hind coxje Steniolta Say. 



Maxillary palpi six-jointed, labial palpi four-jointed; anterior 

 ocellus round or reniform; ma?cillse short . . Monedula Lair. 



Tribe VI.— NEOLARRINI. 



This tribe is based on a single genus Neolarra Ashm. which may 

 be distinguished by its tribal characters. I have not examined this 

 genus during the preparation of this classification, but if my memory 

 serves me right it should be placed here, between the Bcmhicinl and 

 Both)iostethhii. 



16 See Handlirsch. «i*'i.. K. Ak-xl. "Wissensch., Wien. Math.-natnrw. Classe, 

 XCV, Abth. 1, p. 293. 



1^ See Handlirscli, 1. u.-Cl, p. :iti-:it. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



Tribe VII.— BOTHYNOSTETHINI. 



Marginal cell truncate, with an appendiculation; eyes converging 

 towards vertex; hind femora not thickened at apex 



PLENOCULLiS Fox. 



Marginal cell pointed at tip, without appendiculation; eyes diverging 

 towards vertex : hind femora, especially in 9 , thickened at 



apex BOTHYNOSTETHI'S Kohl. 



Tribe VIII.— ASTATINI. 



This tribe is formed of the genus Astatnx, and is based chiefly on 

 the strantre disposition of the eyes of the male sex ; they meet on 

 the vertex, a characteristic not found in any other genus of the 

 fossorial Hymenoptera, and not, as far as I know, in any genus of 

 tlie Order. 



Tribe IX.— DIPLOPLECTRINI. 



The genus Diploplectron forms this tribe. The chief characters 

 are that both sexes have the middle tibiio two spurred, the veiy 

 short subniarginal cell and the prominent and very long prothorax. 

 It is evidently allied to the European genus Dinetus, which probably 

 belongs to this tribe. As the latter is the older genus, the name 

 proposed for this tribe will have to give way to Dinetini, but as 

 Dinetus does not occur in North America, and as this is simply a 

 classification of the forms inhabiting that region, I prefer to use the 

 name proposed above. 



Tribe X.— MI8COPHINI. 



Wings with two subinarginal cells, the first receiving a recurrent ner- 

 vure; marginal cell acuminate, not appendiculate; eyes converg- 

 ing but little or not at all towards vertex . . . Miscofhts Jur. 



Wings with three subniarginal cells, both recurrent nervures being 

 received by the second subniarginal cell; marginal cell elongate, 

 truncate at apex and appendiculate; eyes strongly converging 

 towards vertex Niteliopsis tSaund. 



Tribe XI.— LYRODIXl. 



Lyrodn, upon which this tribe is based, might be placed in the 

 Larrini, were it not for the regularly formed and distinct ocelli. 

 The only other character worth mentioning in which it differs from 

 the following tribe, is the peculiar shape of the prothorax above, 

 which is lieiag apparently twice emarginate, with the intervening 

 space strongly developed. 



21 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF. THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Tribe XII.— LARRINI. 



Under this head are placed all those genera of the old family 

 Larrida3, which have the hind ocelli distorted and more or less obsolete. 



Just within the inner eye margins there is a more or less developed 

 longitudinal fold or swelling. 

 Mundiljles not dentate within; outer side of anterior tibia? armed 

 with strong spines; pygidium ( 9 ) not pubescent . . .IjAkra Fabr. 

 Mandibles armed with one or two teeth within. 

 Pronotum drawn under the dorsulum, especially at the sides ; 

 metanotum longer than the dorsulum; anterior femora (i) not 

 emarginate near the base; pygidiai area covered with a hoar- 

 frost-like pile NoTOGONiA Costa. 



Pronotum not drawn under the dorsulum ; metanotum shorter 

 than the dorsulum; anterior femora ($) enuirginate near the 

 base as in Tuchyspliex and some species of Tdchi/tes ,- pygidiai 

 area on apical portion with short, stiff hairs. 



Ancistnomma Fox. 



Within the inner eye nuirgins there are no signs of a swelling or fold. 

 Coml) on anterior tarsi (9) composed of stifl", tolerably short 

 thorns; pygidiai area entirely covered with pubescence; hind 

 ocelli linear, hooked ar upper end; fore femora of $ either emar- 

 ginate or not e)narginate near the base beneath . Tachytes Pz. 

 Comb on anterior tarsi ( 9 ) composed of very long flexible spines 

 or bristles; pygidiai area naked; hind ocelli oval; fore femora ( $ ) 

 always emarginate near the base beneath . Tac'HY.shhp:a' Kohl. 



Trii)e XIII.— TRYPOXYLONINT. 



Anterior wings witli three submarginal cells; abdomen short, sessile. 



Female with a well-developed pygidium; nuu-ginal cell shorter 



than the first submarginal; antenna' of i more or less dentate 



PiSONOPSIS Fox. 



Female without a pygidium; marginal cell nearly as long as the 

 three submarginal cells united; antennpe of $ not dentate. . . 



PisoN >Spin. 



Anterior wings with two submarginal cells; abdomen long, clavate 

 Trypoxyi.on Latr. 



Subfamily OXYBELINiE. 



In my opinion the peculiar armature of the metathorax and 

 postscutellum, toji^ether with the form of the eyes and neiiration, 

 justifies the retention of the genus 0.ri/hcli(s in a subfamily. Saus- 

 sure forms a trilie of it. 




1894.] NATUKAT, SSCIENCES OF PHILADEIjPHIA. 307 



Subfamily CRABRONIlSr^. 



Eyes hairy: niaudibles eniargiuate exteriorly. 



Entomogxathus Dhlh. 



Eyes not hairy: mandible not emarginate externally. 



Second discoidal cell long, narrow, obtusely pointed at apex, 

 longer than the first discoidal cell: form short, robust: abdomen 



beneath tiat, or suLx'oncave ANAcVtABKt) Pack. 



Second disi-oidal cell broadest at a})ex, shorter than the iirst 

 discoidal; form elongate; abdomen convex beneath. 

 Ckabko Fiihr. ( = Bhopn/ Km). 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



RECENT MOUND EXPLORATION IN OHIO. 

 BY GERARD FOWKE AND \V. K. MOOREHEAD. 



During the psmt summer (1894) a number of mounds have been 

 explored in Ohio in l)ehalf of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. The reports of Mi-. Gerard Fowlce relating to the 

 Van Meter mound and of Mr. Warren K. ISIoorehead as to the 

 Metzger mound are appended. Clarence B. Moore. 



"Mounds in Pike County, Ohio. — Three miles south of 

 Piketon, half a mile from the point where Beaver Creek discharges 

 into the Scioto river, on the farm of J. M. Van Meter,' is a^ 'double 

 mound ' on the highest terrace. The larger part, measuring, after 

 being plowed over for a number of years, 75 feet in diameter and 

 10 feet high, has its west base just at the brink of the terrace at a 

 point where the bluff is 50 feet high, quite steep, with the creek at 

 its foot. The smaller, south of east from the first, is six and one-half 

 feet above the surrounding level and 56 feet in diameter. At the 

 junction of the two, the top is three and one-half feet above the general 

 level. 



"A trench 10 feet wide was started in the east sid§ of the smaller 

 mound, gradually widening until it was 25 feet at the center, and 

 then drawing in until it was 20 feet Avide at 15 feet west of the 

 center. Beneath the middle part was a core 20 feet across and 8 

 feet high of soil placed and packed, or much tramped, while wet; 

 it was somewhat darker than the loam composing the remainder of 

 the mound, quite hard, and broke off in clods. 



"On the original surface of the ground, beginning about five feet 

 east of the center, was a burned place a little over 20 feet across at 

 the widest part, and reaching 20 feet west of the center, or nearly to 

 the lowest point between the mounds. A fire had been burned over 

 this area for a short time only and with a small amount of wood, as 

 the burned earth was nowhere more than an inch thick, most of it 

 much less, while the charcoal and ashes varied from a mere streak 



^ See Catalogue of Prehistoric Works East of the Rocky Mountains, by- 

 Cyrus Themas, page 182. C. B. M. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



:i09 



to a little more than an inch except in one place where a short log 

 six inches in diameter was converted into charcoal. 



"Except an arrow and a spear, found loose in the dirt, there was 

 not a relic of any description, nor the smallest fragment of a human 

 bone. A few pieces of much burned bones of small animals or large 

 birds were in the charcoal at the center, and many small pieces of 

 burned stone were scattered all through the mound. The eastern 



Section of deep grave, 20 feet south from center of larger mound on Van Meter farm. 



1. Body of mound, 6 feet. 



2. Soil, 1 foot. 



3. Subsoil, 3 feet. 



4. Gravel, (to bed of river). 



4a. Gravel thrown from excavation. 

 XXXXX. Position of human bones. 

 Scale. .18 of au inch equals 1 foot. 



half contained a large amount of ashes and much eliarcoal, thrown 

 in with the dirt to help fill up. 



"In the larger mound a circle forty feet in diameter was laid oft 

 with the apex as the center. This brought the circumference about 

 four feet below the top. 



"In the cap, 12 feet east of center were decayed human bones 

 with a few rough beads and fragments of pottery; at the same dis- 

 tance southwest of center were others with a spear or knife by one 

 femur aud a flint chisel, polished at the sharp end, near the skull. 

 None of the bones were entire, and being so close to the surface were 




•^10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



as soft as ashes. Six feet southeast of center a fiint knife lay near 

 fragments of a skull; and at the place where the chest bones would 

 have been were fragments of a pot that seemed to have been etitiie 

 when deposited. Less than a foot from the apex were fragmentary 

 human bones. 



"A knife and a l)oat-shaped slate ornament with a crease around 

 the middle were loose in the dirt. Nothing further was found in the 

 upper i)ortiou. A well wrought flint spear, 8i inches long, and a 

 hematite hemisphere were found on the top of this mound some years 

 ago — perhaps plowed out. All the loose earth, was now scraped 

 away and concentric circles, five feet apart, laid off on the level sur- 

 face of the top. In the outer ring, on the northern and western sides, 

 within a foot or less of the top were traces of six skeletons, intrusive 

 burials ; nothing was found with any of them. 



"A little west of south from center, with its inner nuirgin 17 feet 

 from that point, was an elliptical grave, dug before the mound was 

 begun. It measured a little more than nine feet long anil a 

 little more than five feet wide, with the longer axis very nearly 

 east and west. At about 18 inches below the original surface, 

 along the center line of the grave, a body had been placed. 

 Only fragments of the teeth and skull remained, except that a 

 few small pieces of the pelvis and finger bones were preserved 

 by the action of five small rectangular coppei- plates- that had 

 evidently been fastened around the wrist. These plates were in a 

 little mass of very loose, dark earth, probably remains of some sort 

 of fur or fabric, stained in a few places with red ochre. Nothing 

 else was found in the grave until at the bottom, more than a foot 

 below the upper level of the gray sand, which here lies foui- feet 

 under the proper surface. At this level lay a few decayed pieces of 

 bones of a medium sized person extended on the back, head east, 

 exactly under the upper skeleton. The body had been covered with 

 baik or wood which extended to the margin of the grave on every 

 side and gave a reddish- brown tinge to the lower two inches of filled- 

 in earth. This earth was from a swamp or low bottom, being black 

 and sticky and evidently packed in wet, causing the entire de(;ay of 

 the skeleton which would otherwise have been well preserved l)y the 

 dry sand in which it lay. The grave wall was cut down straight for 



- See note. ('. B. M. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PH I l-ADELPHJA. 311 



two feet; below this the ends drew in somewhat, while the sides were 

 slij^htly overhanging, pvoliahl\^ from caving in <^»f the gravel while it 

 was being dug. The work was done from the south side, as most of 

 the earth was thrown to that side, the remainder being })iled at the 

 two ends. 



"At 15 feet north of the center began a streak of burned earth, 

 charcoal, and ashes, which gradually thickened toward the center. 

 It proved to be nearly circular in outline and 20 feet across. For 

 three or four feet around the margin the ashes seem to have been 

 swept toward the center, as the natural earth of the mound had been 

 deposited directly on that burned, without any ashes or charcoal in- 

 tervening. At eight feet north of center the mass thickened to a 

 foot and held this thickness for six feet farther, and for nearly eight 

 feet east and west. The material forming the charcoal varied from 

 sedge grass to small trees, the largest piece being a pine log a foot 

 in diameter and six feet long. The inner portion of this was in its 

 natural t-ondition, the charred outside having preserved the i)art 

 to which the tire had not reached. Much of the charcoal was fr(jm 

 wood burned while green and was bright as polished metal where it 

 had been kept tolerably dry. There were a few fragments of animal 

 bone here and there, and enough small pieces of human bone to show 

 that a body or skeleton had been ci-emated, some of them being like 

 cinder, others scarcely charred. The thinness of the ashes and the 

 amount of the charcoal showed that the fire had been smothered 

 while much of the fuel remained on it. I-^ying on the to]) of the 

 charcoal where it was thickest was a considerable quantity of char- 

 red cloth, showing at least four distinct methods of weaving ; there 

 was also much of what seemed tb be fur or some such material ; the 

 latter was soft as soot, while some of the cloth was fairly well pre- 

 served, a very little of it showing scarcely any mark of burning. 



"Except as noted above, no relics of any description were found 

 anywhere in the lower part of the mound. 



Gerard Fowkk." 



The five rectangular sheets of copper found with human remains 

 by Mr. Gerard Fowke, beneath the base of the larger Van Meter 

 mound, near Piketon, Pike Co., Ohio, consisted of sheet copper oxi- 

 dized and carbonated to a certain extent, though a large percentage of 

 metal was uuati'ected. These sheets, though not exactly similar as to 




312 



PROOEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1894. 



Yegeta})le fabric, with sections. Larger Van Meter .Mound. cDcuilile size.) 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



length and breadth, do not vary materially, so that the measurement 

 of one, namely 2-5 inches by 3"2 inches, may be considered to apply 

 approximately to all. That they had been portions of a sheet or 

 sheets of larger size was evidenced by at least one closely ground 

 edge on each specimen, contrasting markedly with the rough line of 

 separation of the other margins. No ornamentation like the beaded 

 margin and the repousse work of Florida and Tennessee was 

 apparent, though the marks of numerous blows from a convex blunt 

 cutting- edge were visible on all the specimens. Exfoliation was 

 noticeable near the edges. The sheets were of irregular thickness 

 averaging about 1 mm. 



Notwithstanding these indices of aboriginal origin, so solid was 

 the appearance of the copper that, though no believer in a post- 

 Columbian origin for mounds as a rule, I admit having experienced 

 a feeling of doubt as to the origin of this copper, a doubt which a 

 thorough and careful analysis, made by Ledoux and Company, of 

 New York, speedily dispelled. The result is given in detail: — 



"Copper 99-9130 



Silver 0-0198 



Arsenic 0-0026 



Antimony Trace 



Iron . ." 0-0233 



Nickel and cobalt .... 0-0080 



"Note: — The above analy.sis was made after removing the super- 

 imposed film of oxides and carbonate from the sample. Special ex- 

 amination fur lead, bismuth, and zinc shows that none of these is 

 present. ' ' 



It is quite evident that here we have to do with native copiper of a 

 purity greater than is ordinarily produced at the present time by any 

 smelting process^ and consequently of a still higher degree of purity 

 than would be the product of early processes of smelting the arsenical 

 sulphide ores of Europe*. ^.loreover, the introduction of lead in 

 refining, though not an invariable custom, was extensively practised 

 iu Europe, especially in copper intended for sheet or wire, and its 



^ All smelted copper contains from three to ten lunulredths of one per cent, 

 of combined oxygen. • 



* For full details as to aboriginal copper the reader is referred to "Certain 

 Sand Mounds of the St. John's Eiver, Florida, Part II," Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci . 

 Vol. X. 




314 PROC'KEDJNGS OF THE ACADEMY OK [1894. 



absence, in connection with freedom from consideral)le quantities of 

 arsenic, or antimony, or botli, may always he rejL^^anied as a'ood 

 es'ideace against an early European origin. 



Clakkxck Ji. ^looKE. 



"Thic MjcrzGER ]V[ouKD. — This structure, the property of Mr. 

 (Jliarles Metzger, is located on Deer Creek, about two miles from 

 Yellow Bud (southwest). Situated upon a hill one hundred and 

 fifty or one hundred and sixty feet in altitude, the mound commands 

 a fine view of the surrounding country. The plains stretch away 

 towai'ds the Scioto three miles distant and continue two miles east 

 of the river, where they terminate in high hills. The mound is very 

 nearly round, and is thirty-four feet in height by two hundred feet 

 in diameter at the base. Alongside of it is a horse-shoe or crescent- 

 shaped embankment and two small mounds. 



"On August 20, 1894, work was begun upon the structure. 

 The mound had been originally opened by some farmers. When 

 they began work the structure stood forty feet in height. They sank 

 a circular shaft eight feet in diameter from the apex downwards. 



"Our men first reduced the height of the mound about ten feet. 

 This gave a platfoi-m fifty feet in diameter and twenty-four feet 

 above the surroiuiding surface. The ground in the center of the 

 structui'e (where the previous excavation had been sunk), we found 

 to be very damp and heavy, and as we proceeded downward, we be- 

 came convinced that the log pen found by the original excavators in 

 the center of the structure would be in a bad condition, and that we 

 must depend on other pens were we to take out any logs entire. 



"The structure was composed of ordinary hill clay. At the top it 

 was not stratified, and as it varied but slightly in color, it was 

 extremely diflficult to distinguish any of the ' dumps.' ' On August 

 22nd a very fragmentary skeleton was found about twelve feet below 

 the top and four feet southwest of the central excavation. The body 

 had been originally buried in bark which percolation of water from 

 above had utterly decomposed. With the bones was a spool-shaped 

 button of copper, about an inch in diameter, heavily coated with 

 copper oxide. 



"The 25th two teams were put upon the mound, and they, together 

 with the shovels, reduced it rapidly. When within four feet of the 



^ A " dump " represents the load deposited by one man. — C. B. M. 




1894.] NATU1{A[> SCIKNCIOS OF PHI r-ADKLPHIA. 315 



top of the log pens we (li?ipens'<Ml with the teams and used the shovel- 

 lers tor the ivmainder of the work. One or two arrow-heads svere 

 found (liirin<r the course of the excavations. 



" At eighteen feet from the to{) and eight feet north of the center 

 was a fairly well preserved skeleton surrounded by pieces of sap- 

 lings and logs, two to four feet in length. These were originally 

 laid, one altove the other, to the height of about a foot. These 

 logs, being of small size, when decayed, had broken beneath the 

 weight of earth. The bones of the skeleton were unusually yellow. 

 No relics were found with the remains. We saved some samples of 

 the wood, which experienced timber men pronounced oak and walnut. 



''On the 27th and 2Sth numerous bunches of fine roots and under- 

 giound moss were encountered. Samples of the moss were preserve<l. 

 There were also several deposits of boulders, made without appai-ent 

 reason. The mound, at this point ( twenty- three feet from the top, 

 nine feet from the bottom), appeared to be stratified, and the eartli 

 was veiy soft in places. 



"The log pen in the center of the mound, and the one northwest of 

 it, remained for manv vears before thev caved in. That is. the 



t 

 Metzger Mound, diagram showing banded structure of portion of east wall of 



trench when partially excavated. 



Wood did not decay for a long period of time. In the case of the 

 first or largest pen (central one) the earth was kept out of a space 

 12 X 15x4 feet. The second pen occupied a space about <SxlO and 

 about 6 feet high, and was constructed differently from the fii'st, 

 being very small at the top. These pens existed long enough for 

 the eartli above them to be packed into large clods, which did not 

 fall into the cavity when the wood decayed but gradually settled, 

 forming an arch. The second arch was about 8 feet in diameter at 

 the bottom and 7 feet high. The cavity was filled with underground 

 moss. There was no evidence that moisture had ever entered the 




116 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



\]]im 



-S^e^Vvenson. 



/J. Meizycr .MdUiid. — |)i;i<;rain ni' horizontal section showing size ami sliape of 

 basket dumps. Si/e of section 3x6 feet. Colors of the earth found within 

 limits of this diagram were black, light and dark brown, yellow and bluish gray. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 317 



little cave. It was perfectly dry with fine dust in the bottom. The 

 moss would blaze when touched with a match. In the central pen 

 the conditions were entirely different. The excavation sunk by the 

 farmers permitted water to penetrate entirely over 15x20 feet of the 

 base of the mound. 



" As the main trench was continued we noticed several small ash 

 pits and patches of dark and also burnt earth. In these were ashes, 

 pottery fragments, animal bones, mussel shells and flint chips. This 

 village site refuse was not considerable. 



" Below the upper portion different colors in the mound showed 

 plainly the 'dumps' which contained from a peck to a third of a 

 bushel each. They clearly showed the mound to have been con- 

 structed entirely by manual labor, and that about as much earth as 

 could be conveniently carried by one person w-as deposited in each 

 load. The drawing B shows the section, three by six feet, which 

 has been carefully ' scalped' and smoothed to bring out the shades. 



" The trench at this point was about forty-five or fifty feet in width 

 and was level throughout. The last three or four feet taken out by 

 the teams were removed from the center, and when the shovellers 

 began, the trench dipped from either end to the center. In working 

 to the original base line a large bed of ashes was uncovered. The 

 log pen itself extended 12 feet east and w-est to 15 feet north and 

 south. The statement of the original excavators we can hardly 

 verify. It appears that the pen was composed of smaller logs than 

 they state. Two large logs have left a broad, thick strip of decayed 

 wood on the narrowest side of the pen. One corner of the pen ran 

 over into the ash pit. The logs at the southeast corner seem to have 

 been somewhat larger than the others, and were badly decayed, but 

 we managed to dig around them and bring them into relief Drawing 

 C shows the pen as far as we w ere able to trace it. 



"There were here and there fragments of I'ed pottery. About one 

 foot below the remains of the logs were original yellow clay and 

 shale clay the natural hill soil. The decayed logs and the reddish 

 earth resulting from their decay would fill four or five barrels. 

 This will give an idea of the bulk which they originally represented. 

 It was our opinion from the excavation that most of the logs were 

 saplings, and that the pen was not as large as claimed by the origi- 

 nal explorers. While as large north and east it certainly was not 

 more than four feet high. 




318 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



"The side? of the trench were midermined- as much as was con- 

 sistent with safet)'. It was found that there was nothing in the first 



\ S««yl»«iiwt 



C. Metzger .Mound.— I)ia;,'raiii of surface of cxcavaliou sliowiuj; jini two feet 



above base of mound. 



or main trench save the pen described, the refuse, tlie two frag- 

 mentary skeletons, the c()pj)er ear l)Uttoii and a few arrow-heads. 




1894.] NATUKAf; SCIKNCKS OV Pini-ADRI.l'III A. 310 



The trench was cleaned to the oritriiial surface an-l cxperiniental 

 holes were sunk even to the shale. There were no l)urials l)eU)w the 

 original surface. 



"The ground had been levelled and burnt, thus giving (he mound 

 an even floor or base. In nearly all mounds of the lower Scioto 

 this peculiarity of construction is observeil. It is, therefore, very 

 easy to keep upon the base line. 



"A bed of ashes was discovered about four feet from the l)ottom on 

 the northwest side of the trench. In it were bits of charcoal of ex- 

 ceedingly bright lustre and as hard as bituminous coal. The asii 

 bed was everywhere covered with a thin layer of reddish bark. It 

 was impossible to preserve the bark in sections larger than two l)y 

 three inches. The earth below the ashes was burnt a bright brick 

 red. The ashes varied from three inches in thickness to a feather 

 edge, but a quarter of an inch thick. The earth covered by them 

 extended over ten by six feet. 



" It was near the northwestern edge of the asli bed that we found 

 the end of a large log. Numerous small logs were found above and 

 around this large one, but it did not appear that they were laid with 

 any regularity. They did not seem to be as large as those reported 

 by the men who dug the first hole in the mound. 3Iost of them 

 were six or eight inches in diameter, and six feet in length. They 

 were badly rotted and only a few fragments were saved. Possibly 

 by the use of plaster of Paris sections might have been secured 

 several feet in length, but the ends were so decayed that they would 

 not have shown whether or not they wei'e cut by stone axes. As soon 

 as tlie end of the log was uncovered the men were set to work upon 

 the ash bed with hand trowels, and they dug over the ground very 

 carefully for more than a day but found nothing of importance. The 

 ashes were very white, and resulted from the burning of large 

 quantities of wood. 



" When the end of the log was uncovered it appeared to be fifteen 

 or sixteen inches in diameter, and being accidentally struck by a pick, 

 we were rejoiced to hear it ring as though of sound fresh wood. Wo 

 were compelled to spend three days more and to cut down the bank 

 between the log and the edge of the mound outside so that the teams 

 could pass in and out. By these two excavations (both were 

 widened) we moved two-thirds of the earth in the mound. Near 

 the log the earth on all sides was very loose, and in the f>)rni of clods 




320 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



and large ctiunks rather than fine soil. It appeared that a circle of 

 saplings had been placed about the log. 



" The log must have been cut at a distance and carried to the mound. 

 There is no cedar within ten miles of the structure at the present 

 day, and none was seen by the early settlers. However, it may be 

 that cedar grew upon this hill in pre-Columbian times. Tlie trench 

 extending to the northwest and uncovering the log was 35 feet in 

 width and somethina: over 100 feet in lens^th. 



"On Tuesday, September 4th, the excavation reached the bottom 

 of the log, and measurements gave its length as 18'5 feet with a cir- 

 cumference of 5*4 feet. Immediately below the log was a skeleton. 

 The saplings or small logs constructing the pen had been planted in 

 the earth around this skeleton, somewhat after the form of a tepee. 

 The skeleton itself lay upon the original shale in an excavation two 

 feet below the surface of the ground. It was 20 feet from the slope 

 of the mound directly above or 36 feet below the level of the sum- 

 mit. The skeleton lay with head to the north, arms at the sides, and 

 legs extended. Around each wrist were two copper bracelets. At 

 the neck and upon the chest were several hundred shell beads. 

 There were also the tusks of some large animal. The dry ashes 

 with which the remains were covered, and the great depth from the 

 surface aided in the presei'vatiou of such substances as usually decay. 

 Traces of hair were aljout the skull, the brain,*' dried and shrivelled, 

 was found within it, and cloth, buckskin and rude matting and bark 

 covered the remains. All of these were carefully removed and 

 boxed. 



" A rough count made on the spot gave the number of beads as 480. 



"After removing the skeleton the log was sawed into two sections 

 and carried out and shipped. The outline of the pen was photo- 

 graphed and drawn, and the whole base of the trench down to the 

 original shale carefully dug over. The loose and partly arched earth 

 on either side of the trench was carefully taken out. The possible 

 presence of other pens in the mound was settled in the negative. 

 The sides were undermined at considerable risk and the walls were 

 allowed to fall. Another inspection showed the absence of other 

 burials in the structure. 



^ This remarkable preservation of the brain is as yet unexplained, though a 

 number of authorities have been consulted. A paper will be devoted to it. — 

 C. B. M. 




1894.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



" Subsequently work of filling up began, and when completed the 

 mound stood about 15 feet in height, flat on top and about 250 feet 

 base. 



" The crescent and the small mounds near it were carefully opened 

 but nothing of importance was discovered. Three holes were dug 

 in the crescent, one at each end and one in the center. The crescent 

 averaged three feet in height, was 118 feet across from end to end, 

 10 feet in width and 250 feet around. There is no evidence of a 

 considerable village site near either of the mounds or the crescent. 



Warren K. Moorehead." 



22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



NEW SPECIES OF FUNGI FEOM VARIOUS LOCALITIES. 

 BY J. B. ELLIS AND B. M. EVERHART. 



* HYMENOMYCETES. 



Crepidotus albidus E. & E. 



On bark of {Tiliay. Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 1894 (A. J. 

 Pieters). 



Pileus resupinate-sessile, nearly white, glabrous, i-l cm. across, 

 margin incurved when dry. Lamelke not crowded, thin, broad for 

 the size of the plant, pallid, becoming yellowish-brown, radiating 

 from a lateral point, spores yellowish-brown, subinequilaterally 

 elliptical, about 5 x 3i'^. 



Polyporus pachycheiles E. & E. 



On the side of a rotten maple {Acer rubrum) stump, Newfield, N. 

 J., Nov. 1893. 



Imbricated, small, lj-2 cm. wide, 1 cm. long, milk-white at 

 first, margin soon turning yellow, mostly narrowed behind, the pilei 

 connected by a resupinate layer, surface apparently velutiuous but 

 not tomentose, hardly depressed behind. Pores minute, 2-3 mm. 

 long, 120-150//. wide, round or by the splitting of the walls, here 

 and there subsinuate, margins even, not lacerate-toothed. Flesh of 

 pileus thin, not over 1 mm. thick and like the pores and the whole 

 plant tough-cartilaginous. Surface of pileus faintly zonate toward 

 the margin, more distinctly so in drying. The pores are nearly as 

 long in front as behind, thus thickening the margin of the pileus, 

 hence the specific name. 



Poria inermis E. & E. ^ 



On dead shrubs and limbs of various deciduous trees, Newfield, 

 N. J. Received also from Michigan, Canada, Nebraska and 

 Louisiana. Issued in N. A. F., No. 313, as Polyporus obliqmis, 

 from which it is quite distinct. 



Resupinate, adnate, seriate, extending along the limb for six 

 inches or more and about one inch wide, yellowish- brown, 2-4 ram. 

 thick in the middle, margin thin, narrow, light-yellow (when fresh) 

 and closely adnate. Pores small, round, extending down to the 

 underlying wood. Spores ferruginous, sub-globose, 4-5/'. diara. 




1894.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEJ.PHIA. 323 



Mucronoporus fulvidus E. & E. 



Ou dead limbs of Alnus, Berkeley, Gala., Jan., 1894 (W. C. 

 Blasdale, No. 181). 



Resupinate, adnate, tawny-yellow, extending along the limb for 

 6-8 or more centimeters and 3-4 cm, wide, margin velvety tomen- 

 tose, narrow, sterile, adnate. Pores short (1 mm. or less), round, 

 extending down to the matrix without any distinct subiculum. 

 Spores hyaline, sub-globose, about 2// diam. Spines tolerably 

 abundant, 25-35 x 3-4//, rather pale. 



Has the aspect of Poria inermis E. & E., but surface of pores 

 more uneven, and spiny within. 



Hydnum Washingtonianuin E. & E. 



On the ground in deep coniferous woods, Tracyton, Kitsap Co., 

 Wash., Dec, 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No. 214). 



About 4 cm. high, pale orange, carnose, subviscose. Stipe cen- 

 tral, 3 mm. thick, subatteuuated below. Pileus about 4 cm. across, 

 slightly depressed in the center, thin, glabrous, wrinkled when dry. 

 Aculei subulate, cylindrical, 3-5 mm. long, pale yellow, nearly white 

 when fresh, decurrent half way down the stem. Spores angular- 

 globose, (white)?, 6-7,a diam., borne on clavate-cylindrical basidia 

 20-22 X 6;/, with 4 erect, slender sporophores about 6;/ long. 



From H. repandum, to which it is closely allied, it differs in its 

 decurrent aculei and tougher substance. 



Tremellodon piisillum E. & E. 



On rotten wood, among coniferous trees, Tracyton, Wash., Dec, 

 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No. 212). 



Small, stipitate, gelatinous, white and nearly transparent. Pileus 

 subreniform, membranaceous, 1-1 2 cm. across, smoky-brown above 

 and sparingly clothed with weak, pale hairs. Teeth not crowded, 

 white, subcompressed, about 2 mm. long, narrowed gradually from 

 the base, with a few obtuse, short, lateral, tuberculiform branches or 

 processes. Spores ovate-globose, 5-6 x 35-4//, consisting of a thin, 

 transparent sack containing a single, large globose nucleus. Stipe 

 lateral, cylindrical, slender, equal, hirto-pubescent, 1 cm. long, 2 

 mm. thick, smoky-brown. 



T. hirneoloides B. & C. is a much coarser, stouter plant, with 

 stipe 18 mm. long, 8 mm. thick at the base. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Coniophora capnoides E. & E. 



On bark of dead maple, London, Canada, Sept., 1892 (Dearness, 

 No. 2,004). 



Very thin, purplish, margin of the same color, much resembling 

 outwardly, Corticium fumigatum, Thuni., only not at all cracked and 

 of a darker color. Spores brownish, smooth, globose, 3-3i'>. diam., 

 or short elliptical, 32-5 x 3-3 j//, borne singly on the apices of short, 

 brown basidia or rather emitted successively from these basidia, in 

 which several spores already formed may be distinctly seen. The 

 subhymenial hyphie are very scanty, and the bark has the appear- 

 ance of having been for some time exposed to smoke. 



Peniopliora Atkinson! E. & E. 



On bark of some deciduous tree, Syracuse, N. Y. (Prof Geo. F. 

 Atkinson). 



Closely adnate, thin, smoky-lilac, or smoky- drab color, surface 

 uneven, 1-3 cm. across. Cystidia subulate-cylindrical, slightly 

 roughened above, 30-40 x 5-7//, projecting above the hyraenium 

 12-20//. Spores hyaline, compressed, elliptical when viewed in 

 front, 4-5x2-3//, suballantoid when seen edgewise, 4-5xli-li'/. 



Corticium alboflavescens E. & E. 



On dead, standing trunk of Kalmia latifolia, Nuttallburg, W. 

 Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 365). 



At first orbicular, subpezizoid, 1-2 mm. diam., becoming more 

 irregular in shape and 1 cm. or more diam., lower stratum milk- 

 white, consisting of loosely interwoven, branching threads, and ex- 

 tending out beyond the pale-olivaceous or yellowish, membranaceous 

 hymenium so as to form a thin subfimbriate, white margin. Spores 

 abundant, globose, with a single large nucleus, 4-6//. diam., slightly 

 colored. 



The hymenium has only a slight tinge of olive and is perhaps 

 better described as light- drab color. 



Dacryomyces flabella E. & E. 



On a decaying stump, Mercer Island, near Seattle, Wash., Nov., 

 1893 (Adella M. Parker). 



Fan-shaped, deep orange color, gelatinous, l2-2 cm. broad and 

 high, with a short, lateral stipe, suberect with the opposite margins 

 incurved so as to bear some resemblance to Peziza onotica Pers., 

 subtuberculiform, or otherwise irregular in shape when young. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Spores oblong-cylindrical, with an oblique apiculus below, obtuse and 

 rounded above, yellowish, about 7-septate, 15-18 x Qp., about the 

 same as in D. stillatus, from which its fan-shaped form and lateral 

 stipe will readily distinguish it. 



* * PYRENOMYCETES. 



Capnodium caespitosum E. & E. 



On living leaves of PJiotinia Japonica, Pasadena, Cala., July, 

 1894 (Prof A. J. McClatchie, No. 748). 



Perithecia subulate-cylindrical, simple or branched, 300-400 x 

 60-70//., collected into compact, convex-hemispherical clusters 1-3 

 mm. diam., scattered over the upper surface of the leaf and bristling 

 with the projecting points of the perithecia. There is no mycelium 

 spreading over the surface of the leaf, only a few erect, moniliform 

 threads mingled with the perithecia. Sporidia (sporules)? ovate, 

 3-septate and sub- hyaline at first, finally submuriform and dark- 

 brown, 12-20 X 7-10//.. We have not been able to make out the 

 asci with any certainty. 



Nectria pallida E. & E. 



On dead bark of Carya alba, Missouri, Oct., 1891 (C. H. Deme- 

 trio, No. 276 partly). 



Stroma mucedinous, white, forming small (j-l mm.) white tufts, 

 or subeffused. Perithecia 6-20 on a stroma, globose or slightly 

 ovate-globose, minutely pulverulent, about 150//. diam., pale- yellow, 

 with the ostiolum obscure. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sub-sessile, 

 40 X 6-7//., paraphysate?. Sporidia biseriate or obliquely#uniseriate, 

 oblong- fusoid, 3-4-nucleate, hyaline, apparently becoming unisep- 

 tate but not constricted, 6-8 x 2-2?//. 



Sometimes the perithecia stand singly or 2-3 together on scattered 

 shreds of the white, mucedinous stroma. 



Venturia vaccinii E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Vaccinium ovatum, Seattle, Wash., Dec, 1893 

 (C. V. Piper, No. 225). 



Perithecia hypophyllous, scattered, astomous, globose, 80-100/ji 

 diam. , rather sparingly clothed with stout, straight, black spines 30- 

 60//. long. Asci lanceolate, 25-35 x 6-7//, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, subinequilateral, faintly uniseptate, 10-12 

 X 2-24//. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Chaetomium pallidum E. & E. 



On au old yeast-culture, made on a piece of carrot, Loudou, 

 Cauada, March, 1893 (J. Dearness, No. 2,245). 



Perithecia superficial, thin membranaceous, pale, ovate, 150-200// 

 diam., with a conic- papilliform ostiolum. Asci not distinctly made 

 out, but judging from the arrangement of the sporadia, obloug-cla- 

 vate 30-35 x 10-12//. Sporidia biconical, brown, becoming nearly 

 opake, 14-18x10-12//, narrowed and obtusely apiculate at the 

 ends. 



Differs from the usual type of Chaetomium in its pallid perithecia 

 sparingly clothed with spreading white hairs, but by exposure and 

 age the color of the perithecia becomes darker. 



Lasiosphaeria hystrix E. & E. 



On decaying limb of Sallx, Ohio (Morgan, No. 1,021). 



Perithecia gregarious, depressed- hemispherical, *-•> mm. diam., 

 clothed all over except the broad, tuberculo- papilliform ostiolum, 

 with straight, spreading, stout, snuff-brown hairs 100-250/jt long and 

 6— T/J! thick at the base. The matrix is also overrun with a subicu- 

 lum of finer, interwoven, branching hairs. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 120-160 x 20/-. Sporidia 

 lying parallel in the asci, fusoid-cylindrical, hyaline, multinucleate, 

 becoming 7-15-septate, nearly straight, ends obtuse, 45-65 x 8-1 0/y 



Comes nearest L. caesariata C. & P., but that is black and 

 shining and beset with 'scattered, black hairs; it also has smaller 

 5-7 -septate sporidia. 



Rosellinia limoniispora E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Fraxinus, Rockport, Kansas, Aug., 1894 (E. 

 Bartholomew, No. 1,545). 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, ovate, about I mm. diam., often 

 flattened or depressed above, clothed except the black, mammiform 

 ostiolum, with a thin, pruinose-tomentose coat which soon disappears, 

 leaving the surface minutely granular-roughened. Asci (p. sp.) 

 70-75 X 9/'., with a short stipe, 8-spored, paraphysate. Sporidia 

 obliquely uniseriate, limoniform, (i.e., acutely elliptical), the ends 

 submucronate, 12-15x7—8//, dark-brown. 



The absence of any subiculum, and the smaller differently shaped 

 sporidia separate this from B. medullaris and R. mastoidea. 




1894.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Boseliinia caespitosa E. & E. 



Ou (lead limbs of Celtis occldentalk, Rockport, Ks., Nov., 1893 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,252). 



Perithecia densely gregarious or cespitose, minute (175-200/x 

 diara.) ovate-globose, rough, with conical or couic-papilliform ostio- 

 luiu. Asci cylindrical, 60-79 x 8// when the sporidia lie obliquely,. 

 75-90,". long when they lie end to end, paraphysate, 8-spored. 

 Sporidia uuiseriate, rather acutely elliptical, brown, continuous, 9- 

 13x6-7//. 



Distinguished by its small, rough, clustered perithecia. 



Rosellinia bicolor E. & E. 



Ou rotten wood, Louisiana (Langlois). 



Perithecia gregarious, hemispherical, black-brown, 2 mm. diam. , 

 thin and fragile, seated on a white subiculum of interwoven, branch- 

 ing hyphae. Asci cylindrical, 125-140 x 8//, 8-spored, paraphy- 

 sate. Sporidia uuiseriate, broad- fusoid, subinequilaterai, 3-4 

 nucleate, hyaline becoming brown, 20-23 x 6-7//. 



Perithecia only about half as large as in R. morthien Fckl. , and 

 not flattened at the apex. Ostiolum minute, papilliform. 



Eosellinia ostiolata E. & E. * 



On bark of Ulmus Americana, Rockport, Kansas, Apr.. 1894 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,429). 



Perithecia scattered or subgregarious, superficial, ovate- globose, 

 4 mm. diam., black, minutely granular-roughened, slightly narrowed 

 at the base, with a stout, obtuse, short- cylindrical, or conic-cylindri- 

 cal ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 150x25//, paraphysate, 

 8-spored. Sporidia rhomboid- elliptical, longitudinally rugose, 

 brown, continuous, 25-38x20-22//. Some of them smaller and 

 suliglobose, but this may be a deformity. 



Rosellinia pinicola E. & E. 



On a weather-beaten pine board, Rockport, Ks. , Feb., 1894 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,379). 



Perithecia loosely gregarious, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, 

 grayish- black, ] mm. diam. Ostiolum minute, papilliform, some- 

 times slightly compressed. Asci cylindrical, 60-65x45//, p. sp. 

 40-45//. long, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uuiseriate, elliptical, 

 5-8 X 3-4//, the shorter ones sub-globose, brown, 2-3-nucleate. 



Differs from R. ovalis, Ell. in its smaller perithecia and sporidia. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Melanomma asterostomum E. & E. 



On bark of beech roots, Grauton, Ontario, Canada, Jan., 1894 

 (J. Dearness, No. 2,238). 



Perithecia gregarious, ovate-conical, rough, black, 4-3 mm. diam., 

 with a conic-papilliform, often distinctly radiate- sulcata 4-5 cleft 

 ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 8-spored, paraphysate, p, sp. 45- 

 50 X 8-10//. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong-fusoid, 3-septate, 

 often constricted at the septa and one of the inner cells smaller, pale 

 olivaceous-brown (nearly hyaline at first), 12-15 x 3-4//. 



Differs from M. fuscidulum Sacc. , in the shape of the perithecia 

 and very different ostiolum. 



Melanomma moricolum E. & E. 



Perithecia gregarious, scattered, semi-erumpent, sub-globose, 1 mm. 

 diam., with a minute papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, p. sp. 40-45 x 7//. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong-fusoid, slightly curved, sub-obtuse, yellowish- brown, 

 12-15 X 3-4//, mostly not constricted, but when mature, some of 

 them distinctly so. 



Differs from M. Mori H. Fabre, in its much shorter asci and 

 rather smaller biseriate sporidia. 



On dead small limbs of Morns, Rockport, Kansas (Bartholomew, 

 No. 1,447 partly). 



Melanomma alpestre E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Ardostaphylos Nevadensis, Mt. Paddo, Wash., 

 July, 1886, Alt. 6,000-7,000 ft. (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 268). 



Perithecia scattered, hemispherical, 1-11 mm. diam., carbonace- 

 ous, black, glabrous, superficial, flattened, with a minute papilliform 

 ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 110-150 x 

 10-12//. Sporidia overlapping-uniseriate, or (in the longer asci) 

 lying end to end, oblong-cylindrical, obtuse, slightly curved, 3-sep- 

 tate, brown, 18-22x5-6//.. 



One perithecium contained two distinct ascigerous nuclei, seeming 

 to indicate that the outer, black shell described above as a perithecium, 

 is in reality a stroma, but the material was too scanty to enable us 

 to settle this point definitely and we havQ, therefore, referred the 

 specc. to Melanomma. 



Melanomma dealbatum E. & E. 



On old decorticated, bleached and weather-beaten cottonwood logs, 

 Rockport, Kansas, Feb., 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,369). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEJ^PHIA. 329 



Perithecia scattered, erumpeut-superficial, black, glabrous, ovate- 

 globose, 200-225,". diam., at length more or less collapsing above. 

 Ostiolura papilliforni, minute. Asci oblong-cylindrical, short-stipi- 

 tate, paraphysate, 75-110x10-12;/. Sporidia overlapping uniseri- 

 ate, or more or less perfectly biseriate, obovate, hyaline, becoming 

 pale- brown, 3- septate, 12-15x6-7//. 



Some of the perithecia are sub-elliptical. 



Differs from M. obliterans B. & Br. in its habitat (on wood of 

 deciduous tree), and its constricted sporidia; from 31. CaUllus Sacc. 

 in the character of the sporidia and smaller perithecia, nor does it 

 seem referable to any other species with 3-septate sporidia. 



Trematosphseria vitigena E. & E. 



On old, decaying wood of Vitis rupestris, Nuttallburg, West Va,, 

 Apr., 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 454). 



Perithecia gregarious, sunk in the wood all except the obtuse, con- 

 vex apex, 5--I mm. diam., depressed- globose, the buried part rather 

 thin- walled, the erumpent, convex apex thick, solid, like the stro- 

 matic shield of Clypeosphcer'vj. Ostiolum papilliforni, soon per- 

 forated. Asci clavate-cyliudrical, paraphysate, 8-spored, 86-100 x 

 10-12//. Sporidia sub-biseriate, fusoid- oblong, 3-septate, and con- 

 stricted, sub- acute, pale- brown, 20-25x6-7//. 



Trematosphssria Fraxini E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Fraxinus viridis that had lain for some time in 

 water, Rockport, Kansas, Feb., 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,373), 



Perithecia scattered, semi-erumpent, small, elliptical (on a 

 horizontal section), 300-500 x 250-300//, the base sunk nearly to 

 the wood, the erumpent apex closely embraced by the epidermis. 

 Ostiolum papilliforra, soon deciduous and then, perithecium per- 

 forated. Asci clavate, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 70-80x12-15//, 

 8-spored. Sporidia overlapping below, biseriate above, fusoid-oblong, 

 brown, 3-septate and constricted at all the septa, often with one cell 

 swollen, slightly curved, 20-27 x 6-8//. 



The specc. of Sphceria vielina B. & Br. in Rab. F. E. , 1835, 

 have perithecia ovate-conical, h—\ mm. diam. and sporidia uniseriate, 

 4-6-nucleate, not constricted, straight, 22-30x12-15// and are cer- 

 tainly different from this. 



Teichospora (Teichosporella) Ohiensis E. &E. 

 On hard wood, Ohio (Morgan, No. 1,012), 




330 I'KOCKEDINGS OF THE ACADPJMY OF [1894. 



Pei'ithecia densely gregarioas, superficial, grayish-black, rough, 

 ovate-globose, 300-400;/. diani, with a broad papilliform, soon per- 

 forated ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 55-62 x 7-8//., 

 8-spored (paraphysate)? Sporidia uniseriate, short-elliptical, yellow- 

 ish-hyaline, obscurely 1— 3-septate and uiuriform, 10-12 x 6-8//. 



Has the general aspect of Roselliiiia pulveraeea (Ehr. ). 



Teichospora tuberculata E. & E. 



On vvoud of LIriodendron, Ohio (Morgan, No. 1,004). 



Perithecia gregarious, superficial, minute, about 300//. high and 

 200/'. broad, ovate-conical, sessile on the flattened base, coarsely 

 tubercular-roughened, black. Ostiohun obtuse, perforated and often 

 4-sulcate-cleffc. Asci ciavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, 110 x 20//, 

 paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia irregidarly biseriate, oblong-ellip- 

 tical, multiseptate and muriforni, hyaline at first, tardily becoming 

 brown, slightly constricted in the middle, 19-22 x 11-13//., ends ob- 

 tuse. 



Distinguished from the other species by the ovate-conical, tubercu- 

 lar- roughened perithecia. 



Teichospora araygdaloides E. & E. 



On bark of Salix amygdaloldes, Rockport, Ks. , July, 1894 (Bar- 

 tholomew, No. 1,507> 



Perithecia scattered or sub-gregarious, erumpent-superficial, sub- 

 globose, 250-350/' diam. , soon flattened above and at length more 

 or less collapsed. Ostiolum papilliform. Asci subventricose, sub- 

 sessile, paraphysate, 8-spored, 75-85 x 18-21//. Sporidia mostly 

 crowded- biseriate, obovate, about 5- septate and constricted in the 

 middle, with a longitudinal septum running through 2 or more cells, 

 hyaline and uniseptate at first, finally yellow-brown, 20-22x10— 

 13//.. 



Differs from T. obdueen.^ (Pers. ) in its scattered gi'owth, sub-col- 

 lapsing and mostly rather smaller perithecia, and shorter asci with 

 crowded sporidia. 



Teichospora clavispora E. & E. 



On bark of Ner/ioido aceroides, Rockport, Kansas, July, 1894 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,509). 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, rough, 

 250-300// diam., with a pa[)illiform ostiolum. Asci ciavate-cylindri- 

 cal, 100-120 X 14-15/', paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia obliquely 




1894.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADKLIMII A. 331 



uniseriate, clavate or narrow obovate, 8-10-septate and muriform, 

 brown, 30-35 x 10-12//,, narrowed almost to a point below. 

 Teichospora rliypodes E. & E 



On decorticated Bhus, Ann Arbor, Mich., Apr., 1893 (L. N. 

 Johnson, No. 1,545). 



Perithecia gregarious, enimpeut-superficial, conic- hemispheiical, 

 ^ mm. diatn., with a papilliform or conic-papilliform ostiolum. Asci 

 cylindrical, 100-110x12//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uni- 

 seriate, obloug-elliptical, yellow- brown, 6-7-septate, with a more or 

 less perfect longitudinal septum running through several of the cells, 

 15-18 X 7-8//-, slightly constricted in the middle, ends obtusely 

 pointed. Accompanied by pycnidial perithecia {Macrophovia rhoina 

 E, & E.), smaller and depressed, with fusoid-oblong, hyaline 

 sporules 18-22x6-7//. 



The ascigerous perithecia are more or less covered below with the 

 remains of the decomposing fibers of the wood and have a dirty 

 look. 



Teichospora crossota E. & E. 



On the weathered inner surface of elm bark, Rockport, Kansas, 

 Apr., 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,437). 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, rough, 

 black, 150-200//, diam., fringed around the base with short, creep- 

 ing, brown hyphse, not collapsing. Ostiolum papilliform. Asci cylin- 

 drical or clavate-cylindrical, about 75 x 10-12//, abruptly contracted 

 below into a short, crooked stipe, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 sub-biseriate, obovate-elliptical, yellow-brown, 3-septate and more or 

 less constricted in the middle, 12-15 x 8-9//, ends obtuse. 



Allied to T. pygmcea E. & E., but perithecia gregarious and 

 fringed, and sporidia longer and acute below. 



Teichospora piriospora E. & E. 



On outer bark of living Fraxinus viridis, Rockport, Ks. , March, 

 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,233). 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, subglobose, I mm. diam., with a 

 papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, 100-110 x 15-18//, sub-sessile, 

 paraphysate, 8-spore4. Sporidia overlapping- uniseriate, piriform, 

 6-11-septate and muriform, yellow'-brown, 35-45 x 12-15//, the 

 terminal cells a little paler. 




332 PROCICEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Teichospora nubilosa E. & E. ^ 



On outer bark of Celtis occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas, Nov. 

 1898 (E. Bartholomew, No. 1,249). 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, ovate, minute, 250x220,", rough, 

 black, with a papilliform ostioluni, at length collapsing above. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, 70-75x10-12'/., 8-spored, with filiform para- 

 physes. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical or ovate, 3-septate and sub- 

 muriform, constricted at the middle septum, hyaline at first, but soon 

 becoming brown. 



The perithecia are mostly seated on a thin, black crust which over- 

 spreads the surface of the bark, giving it a clouded appearance. 



Pleosphaeria cortioola E. & E. 



On outer bark of Pinus rigida, Nuttallburg, West Va. , June, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, ovate, 300-400//. diam. , carbo- 

 naceo-membranaceous, pilose-strigose, hairs 100-200 x 5-6;/, soon 

 opake, very faintly and sparingly septate, here and there collected 

 into closely compacted fascicles resembling stout bristles. Ostiolum 

 papilliform, obtuse. Asci oblong-cylindrical, abruptly short-stipitate, 

 80-100 x 20-25,". Paraphysate? Sporidia crowded, acutely ellip- 

 tical, nearly hyaline at first, becoming olive-brown and 5-7-septate 

 and muriform, but not constricted. 



Comes near P. strlgosa Sacc, but perithecia rather smaller, not 

 depressed, and hairs fasciculate. 



Lophiostoma (Lophiosphsera)? asperum E. & E. 



On outer bark of Ulmus Ainericana, Rockport, Kansas, June, 

 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,487). 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, ovate, tubercular-roughened, ex- 

 cept around the prominent, narrow, compressed ostiolum, 400-450// 

 high, 300-350," broad, slightly narrowed around the base. Asci 

 clavate-cyhndrical, short-stipitate, 90-100 x 12,"., paraphysate, 8- 

 spored. Sporidia uniseriate, mostly overlapping or oblique, yellow- 

 ish-hyaline, uuiseptate and constricted, 18-21 x 7-8,", ends subacute, 

 or when free obuse and rounded. 



Lophiostoma speciosum E. & E. 



On bark of Fraxiiuis viridis, Rockport, Kansas, March, 1894 

 (Bartholomew, 1,406). 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, globose, grayish- black, 




1894.] NATURAJ. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



i ram. diam., with a narrow, compressed, deciduous ostiolum. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, 150-200 x 22-25/., p. sp. 112-130;/ long, jnira- 

 physate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-elliptical, with the ends 

 subacute, olive-brown, 10-11-septate. not constricted, 40-55 x 13- 



16,a. 



Lophidium pachystomum E. & E. 



On outer bark of Popalus monilifera, Kansas (Bartholomew). 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, depressed-globose, 

 4^-1 mm. diam., base slightly sunk in the bark, rounded above at 

 first and without any visible ostiolum, but finally with a stout, short- 

 cylindrical, obtuse, scarcelv compressed ostiolum \-h mm. Ion?. 

 Sometimes two or three perithecia are confluent. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 110-120x18-22// (p. sp. 100-110//.), paraphysate, 

 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, clavate-oblong or obovate-clavate, 27- 

 50x12-15//, 6-12-septate and muriform, becoming dark- brown, 

 sometimes shriveled and deformed. 



Distinguished by its turret-like ostiolum. 

 Lophidium nitidum E. & E. 



On dead shoots of cultivated grapevines, Nuttallburg, West Va. , 

 Jan. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 295). 



Perithecia scattered, semierumpent, small (200-250//. diam.), 

 black and shining, subhemispherical, the flattened base immersed in 

 the bark. Ostiolum compressed, thin, narrow, sometimes obsolete. 

 Asci cylindrical, short- (8-10//) stipitate, about 100x10-12//, para- 

 physate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, yellow- 

 brown, 5-7-septate with a longitudinal septum running through two 

 or more cells, 19-22 x 8-10//, ends mostly rounded and obtuse, not 

 at all or only slightly constricted in the middle. 



Lophidium purpurascens E. & E. 



On old paper lying by the roadside, Ann Arbor, Mich., March, 

 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No. 1,564, partly). 



Perithecia gregarious, on purplish spots, ovate, 400-450// diam., 

 the apex emergent and crowned with the obtuse, compressed ostio- 

 lum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100-150x15-20//., p. sp. 80-100/i 

 long, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate above, oblong or 

 fusoid-oblong, attenuated towards each end, 7-10-septate, slightly 

 curved, not at all or only slightly constricted, 2 or more of the cells 

 divided by a longitudinal septum, olive-brown, 22-25 x8-10//. 




334 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Often in >some of the asci the sporidia appear shriveled and are 

 nearly opake. 

 Lophidium confertum E. & E. 



On decorticated, decaying limbs of Fraxinus viridis, Trego Co., 

 Kansas, Apr. 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,457). 



Perithecia crowded, superficial, with the base broadly adnate, 

 conical, somewhat shining above, 300-400// diam. Ostiolum ob- 

 tusely conical, mostly more or less compressed, with the opening 

 elongated subhysteriform. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100-110x12- 

 15.", with a short, crooked stipe and abundant paraphyses. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, short-elliptical, pale yellow-brown, 3-septate, obtuse, more 

 or less constricted at the middle septum, coarsely niuriform, 12-15 

 X 10-12//. Sometimes the sporidia are smaller and darker with a 

 shriveled look. On account of the slightly compressed ostiola this 

 approaches TeicJtospora. 

 Cucurbitaria borealis E. & E. 



On bark of dead limbs of Salix sp., Alcove, N. York (C. L. 

 Shear, No. 216). 



Perithecia cespitose, 6-12 together in compact groups, 2-3 mm. 

 diam., seated on the surface of the inner bark and loosely surrounded 

 by the ruptured and upturned epidermis, 3-2 mm. diam. , black, 

 rough, subglobose, with a prominent ostiolum soon perforated. . Asci 

 cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 90-110 x 15—16//. 

 Sporidia uniseriate or subbiseriate above, elongated ovate- elliptical, 

 about 7-septate and niuriform, somewhat constricted in the middle, 

 yellow-brown, obtuse, 20-27 x 12-14//. 



Differs from C. salicina Fckl. in its cespitose perithecia and larger, 

 7-septate sporidia. 



Sphaerella hypsicola E. & E. 



Perithecia scattered or subgregarious, ovate- globose, 80-90/'. diam., 

 subcuticular or superficial by the falling away of the epidermis, 

 pierced above with a small round opening. Asci oblong, sessile, 

 fasciculate, 25-35 x 7-8/', 8-spored. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, 

 oblong or clavate-oblong, scarcely constricted, hyaline, 9-11 x2i- 

 3/'. 



On dead stems of Trollins lax us, Cameron Pass, N. W. Colo., 

 July, 1894, alt. 10,200 ft. (Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 4). 



Sphasrella coerulea E. & E. 



On dead stems of Aquilegia ccerulea, Junction of Big South and 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Cache la Poudre Rivers, Colo., July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Crandall, 

 No. 11), alt. 9,000 ft. 



Perithecia evenly scattered, subcuticular but promiuent, de})ressed- 

 hemispherical, 100-120// diam., pierced above. Asci fasciculate, 

 aparaphysate, oblong, mostly broader near the base, sessile, 8-spored. 

 Sporidia 2-3-seriate, crowded, clavate-oblong, obtuse, uniseptate and 

 slightly constricted at the septum, 15-20 x 32-4^'/. 



Difters from S. Aquilegice E. & G. in its depressed perithecia and 

 narrower sporidia. 



Didymella Myricae E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Myriea cerijera, Kiamensie, Del., July, 1894 

 (Commons, No. 2,503). 



Perithecia scattered, adnate-superficial, depressed-hemispherical, 

 100-120;/. diam., with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci obovate, subin- 

 equilateral, sessile, aparaphysate, 40 x 20/'. Sporidia biseriate, 

 oblong, hyaline, uniseptate and strongly constricted at the septum, 

 ends obtuse, each cell 2-uucleate, 20 x 6-8//. The cells easily 

 separate. 



Didymella Physocarpi E. & E. 



On dead Wmhs o^ Physocarpus optdifolius, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 488). 



Perithecia gregarious, covered by the pustuliform epidermis, about 

 i mm. diam., white inside, depressed-globose, the papilliform ostio- 

 lum barely penetrating the epidermis. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, 85-90 x 10-12//, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 biseriate, fusoid, 4-nucleate, uniseptate, constricted at the septum, 

 hyaline, 19-22x4-5//, mostly a little curved. 



Didymosphaeria populifolia E. & E. 



On fallen leaves of Populus angidata, Shore of Lake Huron, 

 Ontario, Canada, May, 1894 (Dearness, No. 2,263). 



Perithecia gregarious, in suborbicular, hypophyllous groups, about 

 1 cm. across, not on any definite spots, 80-100// diam., innate, only 

 the subcouoid, minute ostiolum projecting. Asci cylindrical, short- 

 stipitate, 65-75x8-10//, 8-spored (paraphysate)? Sporidia uniseri- 

 ate, oblong, pale brown, uniseptate, slightly constricted, upper cell 

 a little broader, 12-14 x 3A-41//. 



Pleospora Richtophensis E. & E. 



Perithecia tliickly scattered, subcuticular, globose or elliptical, 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



300-400/i diam., finally more or less collapsing, the papillilbrm 

 ostiolura barely piercing the epidermis. Asci clavate-oblong, short- 

 stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spored, 85-110x20-22;/. Sporidia biseri- 

 ate, oblong-elliptical, 5-septate and muriform, mostly constricted in 

 the middle, yellow-brown, end cells paler and subacute, 25-35 x 12- 

 14/i. 



On dead stems of Helianthus, Mt. Richtophen, N. W. Colo., 

 July, 1894 (C. F. Baker, No. 238). 



Pleospora alpestris E. & E. 



On decaying stems of TroUins laxus, Cameron Pass, N. W. Colo,, 

 July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 4, partly). 



Perithecia scattered, innate-erumpent, ovate-globose, 250;/ diam., 

 with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci thin, evanescent, 150x25-30, 2- 

 spored (in the specc. examined). Sporidia oblong- elliptical, or 

 ovate-oblong, 50-65 x 16-24;/, mostly a little constricted in the 

 middle, multi-(9-12-) septate and muriform, deep yellow-brown. 



The perithecia have a scanty fringe of coarse, brown, mycelial 

 threads around the base. 



This differs from PL polyphragmia Sacc. in its smaller glabrous 

 perithecia not collapsing, and its larger sporidia with fewer septa. 



Pyrenophora Canadensis E. & E. 



On sheaths of Phleum pratense, London, Canada, July, 1894 (J. 

 Dearness). 



Perithecia scattered, buried with the apex erumpent, ovate, 250- 

 300;/. diam., the apex, around the scarcely prominent ostiolum loosely 

 clothed with spreading, brown, continuous hairs 50-80 x 5-6;/. Asci 

 cylindrical, 150-190 x 28-32;/ (p. sp. 110-120;/). Paraphyses not 

 seen. Sporidia 4-8, oblong-elliptical or ovate- elliptical, nearly 

 hyaline, obtuse, 3-septate, scarcely constricted, when mature one or 

 two of the cells divided by a longitudinal septum, 40-55 x 15-20;/. 



Leptosphgeria sambucina E. & E. 



On dead Sambucus melanoearpa, Cameron Pass, Colo., alt. 

 10,000 ft., July, 1894 (C. F. Baker). 



Perithecia buried, ovate-globose, 350-400;/. diam., i-aising the 

 epidermis into pustules which are whitish at first with the minute, 

 black, papilliform ostiolum visible in the center. Asci clavate- cylin- 

 drical, 100-120x12;/, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia fusoid- 

 cylindrical, slightly curved, uniseptate and constricted at first, finally 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



6-8eptate and constricted at the septa, generally with one cell near 

 the middle, swollen, 22-27 x 6-7/^1, golden-yellow. 



Differs from L. agnita Desm. in its broader, golden-yellow 

 Bporidia. L. Samhaci in Roum. F. Gall. 5960, has 3-septate sporidia. 



Leptosphaeria papyricola E. & E. 



On old pasteboard lying by the roadside, Newfield, N. J,, Aug. 

 1894. 



Perithecia gregarious, buried, with the acutely conical ostiolum 

 erurapent, llO-loO," diam. , ovate-globose. Asci (p. sp.) 60-70 x 

 5a, with a siender stipe 30-40// long, paraphyses obscure. Sporidia 

 biseriate, fusoid, dull yellow, slightly curved, 3-septate, often con- 

 stricted at the middle septum with the next cell above swollen, 14- 

 20 (mostly about 15) x 21-3//. 



Differs from au}'^ form of L. eustoma (Fr. ) in its conical ostiolum 

 and constantly narrower sporidia. 



An Ophiobolus with asci 110-120 x 5//, spoi'idia filiform 80-110 

 X lo,", also occurs on the same matrix. 



Ophiobolus fragilisporus E. & E. 



Perithecia scattered, erumpent-superficial, ovate-conical, brownish- 

 black, 350-450// high, 300-350// thick, ^ narrowed above into the 

 prominent- papilliform or short- cylindricaj, black ostiolum. Asci 

 linear, gradually narrowed below, 150-200 x 5-5*//. Paraphyses 

 filiform, evanescent. Sporidia nearly as long as the asci, yellowish- 

 brown, 1-1]// thick, readily separating into joints 8-12// long. 



Allied to 0. rudis (Riess.), but sporidia only half as thick and 

 perithecia ovate-conical. 



On dead herbaceous stems, on overflowed land, Walton Creek, 

 Colorado, July, 1894, alt. 6,500 ft. (Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 40). 



Linospora Brunellae E. & E. 



On living leaves of Brunella vulgaris, Columbia River, W. 

 Klikitat Co., Wash., Apr. 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 267). 



Perithecia thickly scattered, amphigenous, l^uried in the substance 

 of the leaf, but raising the epidermis into little black tubercles about 

 i mm. diam. , and pierced above by the papilliform or short-cylindri- 

 cal ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 80-90x12-15//, 8-spored, 

 (paraphysate)? Sporidia fasciculate, lying parallel, clavate-cylindri- 

 cal, yellowish-hyaline, 3-septate, not constricted, 55-65 x 3//. 

 23 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Hypospila Brunellae E. & E. 



On leaves of Brunella vulgaris, Seattle, Wash., Sept. 1892 (C. 

 V. Piper). 



Perithecia buried in the substance of the leaf, h mm. diaro., the 

 base hemispherical- prominent below, the conic-papilliform ostiolum 

 erumpeut through the slightly tubercular-elevated epidermis above. 

 Asci clavate-cyliudrical, 90-110 x 12/', 8-8pored, with tiliform para- 

 physes. Sporidia cylindrical, crowded, nearly straight, faintly 1-3- 

 septate, obtuse, 55-62 x 3^-4//. 



Anthootomella hypsophila E. & E. 



Perithecia gregarious, buried in the bark, globose, black, ^—2 

 mm. diam., raising the surface of the bark into distinct pustules 

 which are barely pierced by the papilliform ostiolum. Asci cylindri- 

 cal, 90-110x12,'/, paraphysate, 8-spored, stipitate. Sporidia uni- 

 seriate, narrow-elliptical, deep brown and finally opake, 15-18 x 8- 

 10//.. 



On dead stems of Loaicera involacrafa, Cameron Pass, N. W. 

 Colo., alt. 10,000 ft. (C. F. Baker). 



Anthostomella suberumpens E. & E. 



On inner surface of loosened elm bark, Rockport, Kansas, Nov. 

 1893 (Bartholomew, No. 1,244). 



Perithecia gregarious, sunk in the bark, with the stout, conical 

 ostiolum and often the apex of the perithecium erumpent, 250-320;/ 

 diam., with tolerably thick walls. Asci cylindrical, short- stipitate, 

 90-110 X 7-8//, 8-spored, with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia uniseri- 

 ate, elliptical, brown, becoming nearly opake, 12x6-8//. 



Distinguished from other species by its stout, conical ostiolum and 

 suberumpent perithecia, approaching RoseUinia. 



Diaporthe (Chorost.) stereostoma E. & E. 



On dead branches of Si/mpJwricarpon occidentalis, Rockport, Kan- 

 sas, June, 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,482). 



Stromata scattered or subcoufiuent, enclosed in a thin, black, sub- 

 carbonaceous crust, conical or subpulvinate, 1-3 mm. diam., seated 

 on the wood and covered by the thin bark which is raised into pus- 

 tules and pierced by the fascicle of stout, black, conic-cylindrical 

 ostiola which are 2-I mm. long. Perithecia 3-12 in a stroma, sub- 

 globose, about i mm. diam. , slightly sunk in the surface of the 

 wood which is marked by a cluster of shallow cup-shaped cavities 




1894,] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHIIjADELPHIA. 339 



when the perithecia are removed. Asci (p. sp.) 45-50 x 7-8//, 

 clavate-cylindrical, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, ob- 

 long, 3-4-nucleate, slightly constricted in the middle, obtuse, hyaline, 

 10-12 X 8i-4/.'.. 



Very distinct from D. Ryckholtii, which is also found on SympJiori- 

 carpos. 



Diaporthe (Chorostate) tetraptera E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Stroma cortical, 1^-2 mm. diam., surrounded by a black line 

 which does not penetrate the wood. Perithecia 4-12, circinate, 

 5 mm. diam., sunk to the wood and leaving their impress on its sur- 

 face but not penetrating it. Ostiola obtusely rounded and perforated, 

 erumpent in a compact fascicle and closely surrounded by the 

 ruptured epidermis. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80 x 12;/. Sporidia 

 biseriate, obloug-fusoid, slightly curved, subobtuse, hyaline, unisep- 

 tate and constricted at the septum, each cell with a large nucleus, 

 19-22 X 5-7;/. 



Differs from D. Haleske E. & E. in its smaller perithecia, not 

 sunk in the wood and its much larger sporidia. 



Diaporthe (Chorostate) Halesiae E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Perithecia 4-8, loosely circinate, f mm. horn-color inside, becom- 

 ing nearly black, sunk in the wood, necks converging with their obtuse, 

 smooth, hemisphei'ical ostiola erumpent in a close fascicle, closely 

 surrounded by the ruptured epidermis. Asci slender, 55-60 x 6-7//, 

 short-stipitate. Sporidia subbiseriate, fusoid- oblong, hyaline, 2-4- 

 nucleate, becoming uniseptate and slightly constricted, straight, 12— 

 15 X 2i-3//. 



There is no distinct circumscribing line around the stroma, but the 

 inner surface of the bark is uniformly blackened. 



Diaporthe Araliae E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 312). 



Stroma buried in the wood and circumscribed by a penetrating, 

 black line, elliptical, about 5x4 ram. Perithecia buried in the 

 stroma, few (6-10) globose, A-J mm. diam., their short-cylindrical, 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



ostiola projecting from a black, tubercular disk seated on the sur- 

 face of the wood and perforating the pustuliform-elevated epidermis, 

 but scarcely rising above it. Asci clavate- cylindrical, 40-45 x 5- 

 6,'i, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, 4- nucleate, 

 becoming uniseptate and slightly constricted, hyaline, obtuse, 12- 

 13x2i-3//. 



Allied to and resembling D. ocularia C. & E. 



Valsa ribicola E. & E. 



On dead Ribes aureitm, Rockport, Kansas, Aug. 1894 (E. Bar- 

 tholomew, No. 1,530). 



Perithecia eircinate, 10-12 buried in the unchanged substance of 

 the inner bark, not penetrating to the wood or circumscribed by any 

 black line, 230-250," diam., ovate-globose, with slender necks con- 

 verging, with their rounded, black, finally subumbilicate ostiola 

 eruinpent around the margin of a dirty white disk. Asci clavate- 

 cyliudrical, about 60 x 8;/. Sporidia biseriate above, allantoid, 

 hyaline, obtuse, moderately curved, 12-15 x 3-4a. The white disk 

 is only the top of a grayish-white central column around the base of 

 which lie the perithecia, in a circle 1^-2 mm. diam. 



This cannot easily be mistaken for V. ribesia Karst., which has 

 sporidia only about half as large and differs also in other respects. 



Valsa Chionantlii E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Chionanthus Virginica, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 March, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 228). 



Perithecia 4-10, globose, ]—h mm. diam., buried in the unchanged 

 substance of the bark, with convergent necks, terminating in short- 

 cylindrical, obtuse, perforated ostiola erumpent in a close fascicle 

 perforating and slightly raising the bark. Asci clavate, p. sp. 40- 

 45 X 8-10,'/, 8-sp()red, paraphysate? Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, 12- 

 15x3^-4i.", biseriate above. 



Spermogonia ( Cytispora Chioncmthi E. & E, ) buried in the bark, 

 flask-shaped, o--!," diam., nuiltilocular, the cells soon confluent, the 

 apex erumpent and perforated by a single pore. Sporules allantoid, 

 4—6x1-1},'/, borne on basidia branched above, the branches erect, 

 straight, nucleate, 7-10// long. 



Valsa Diospyri E. & E. 



On dead limbs of D'wspxjros Virr/iniaiia, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Dec. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 253). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



Stroma consisting of the slightly blackened substance of the bark, 

 convex, about 2 mm. diam., not circumscribed. Perithecia 4—1 in 

 a stroma, subglobose, \-i mm. diam., necks converging and united 

 above in a small, black disk which perforates the pustuliform- elevated 

 epidermis, but does not rise above it. Ostiola short, conic-cylindri- 

 cal, with a smooth, round opening, crowded and finally obliterating 

 the disk. Asci clavate- lanceolate, p. sp. 25 x 5,'j., 8-spored, para- 

 physate. Sporidia allantoid, hyaline, 8-10x1^-2//. Spermogonia 

 (Cytispora) in the young stroma, multilocular gray inside, opening 

 by a single, central pore. Spermatia allantoid, hyaline, moderately 

 curved, 4-5 x li,a. 



Valsa etherialis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Acer rubrum, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 373). 



Stromata cortical, thickly scattered, convex, 1-1 •> mm. diam. 

 Perithecia 6-12 together, circiuate, buried in the unaltered substance 

 of the bark, small, 150-250,'a diam., their short necks terminating 

 in an erumpeut, compact fascicle of obtuse, black, slighly unbilicate 

 ostiola closely embraced by the epidermis and scarcely rising above 

 it. Asci (p. sp. ) fusoid, 15-22x4-42//, stipitate, 8-spored. 

 Sporidia biseriate, allantoid, hyaline, curved, slender, 5-6 x about 

 1/j.. When well developed, the epidermis is raised into subdiscoid 

 pustules in which the slight protuberances indicate the position of 

 the subjacent perithecia. 



V. delicatitla C. & E. has fewer, larger perithecia and broader 

 sporidia. V. mierospora Cke. & Plowr. bas also larger perithecia 

 and yellow'ish sporidia, and the ostiola are more or less distinctly 

 sulcate, indicating its close relationship to Eutijpella. In F. etherialis 

 the sporidia both in and out of the asci are perfectly hyaline. 



Eutypella densissima E. «fe E. 



On dead limbs of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, W. Va. , Feb. 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 363). 



Stromata scattered, cortical, depressed-conical, 2-3 mm. diam., 

 not circumscribed, but staining the bark olive-gray. Perithecia 

 numerous, often 50-70 in a stroma, 100-120// diam., closely packed, 

 their slender necks terminating in obtusely conical, 4-cleft, black, 

 densely crowded ostiola erumpent in a brown disk surrounded by the 

 ruptured epidermis. The disk is soon obliterated, so that only the 

 crowded, black, subshining ostiola are seen. Asci clavate-fusoid, p. 




342 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



sp. 25-30x4;/.. Sporidia biseriate, allautoid, hyaline, moderately 

 curved, 8-10x1^-2//. 



Eutypella carpinicola E. &. E. 



On dead limbs of Carpimis Americana, Alcove, N. Y., Oct. 1893 

 (C. L. Shear, No. 190). 



Stromata cortical, flat, subconfluent, 11-2 mm. diam. , formed 

 from the scarcely altered, superficial layer of the inner bark, below 

 which the substance of the bark and surface of the wood i.s uniformly 

 blackened. Perithecia subcircinate, 3-6 together, ^-f mm. diam., 

 with thick, coriaceous walls, their short necks erumpent in a small, 

 flattened, tubercular, black disk, which pierces the papilliform- 

 elevated epidermis, and appears like a small black speck on its surface. 

 Ostiola erumpent through the disk, broad, flat, soon stellately cleft. 

 Asci slender- clavate, p. sp. 40-50x5//, or including the slender 

 stipe, 80-100/'. long, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, 

 allantoid, yellowish, slightly curved, obtuse, 8-10x2//. 



The perithecia lie in the superficial layer of the inner bark, and 

 when the epidermis is pulled off", this layer and the imbedded peri- 

 thecia adhere to and come off" with it. The perithecia are then seen 

 to be surrounded by a thin white layer apparently formed from the 

 substance of the bark. 



Calosphaeria cornioola E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Cornus asperifolia, Rock port, Kansas, May, 

 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,470). 



Perithecia scattered or loosely collected in subvalsiform groups of 

 3-5, minute, 200-250// diam., buried in the unchanged substance 

 of the inner bark, covered by the epidermis which is raised into 

 little pustules and pierced by the papilliform ostiola. Asci clavate, 

 27-32x6-62//, rounded above and gradually narro^ved to the base. 

 Paraphyses linear, nucleate, much longer than the asci. Sporidia 

 biseriate, cylindrical, hyaline, curved, obtuse, 10-12x2/7.. 



Differs from C. minima Tul. (also on Cornus) in its sporidia twice 

 as long and rather broader. The scattered mode of growth is like 

 that of C. microtheca C. & E. 



Endoxyla aoericola E. & E. 



On rotten maple wood, Granton, Ontario, Canada, Jan. 1894 

 (Dearness, No. 2,235). 



Perithecia scattered or subvalsiforra-aggregated, globose, black. 




1894.] naturaIj sciences of Philadelphia. 343 



300-o50,'x diam., entirely buried iu the unchanged substance of the 

 wood, their short-cylindrical or conic- cylindrical ostiola exserted 

 either singly or in loose fascicles. Asci cylindrical, 130-140 x 12//. 

 (p. sp. 90-1 10,'/.), paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, ob- 

 long-cylindrical, 3-septate and constricted at the septa, obtuse, not 

 curved, brown, apparently roughish, 18-22 x 8— 10«. 



Pseudovalsa viticola E. & E. 



On dead shoots of Vitii riparla, Roekport, Kansas, April, 1894 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,454). 



Perithecia buried in the unchanged substance of the inner bark, 

 either singly or 2-4 together, globose, soft, i-f mm. diam., raising 

 the epidermis into distinct pustules, which are pierced by the papil- 

 liform or tubercular-papilliform ostiolum. x\sci cylindrical, short- 

 stipitate, 8-spored, paraphysate, 100-120x10-12;/. Sporidia unise- 

 riate, oblong-cylindrical, straight or very slightly curved, obtuse, 

 3-septate and slightly constricted, 15-20x8-9,', light yellow- brown. 



Valsaria allantospora E. & E. 



On dead Xegundo aceroides, Roekport, Kansas, April. 1894 (Bar- 

 tholomew, No. 1,450). 



Stroma cortical, elliptical (in a horizontal section), 4-7x3 mm., or 

 subseriate-elougated for 1-2 cm., formed from the substance of the 

 bark which becomes of a lighter color than the surrounding parts, 

 and is limited by a black line which penetrates the wood to the depth 

 of about 1 mm. Perithecia 6-12 in a stroma, globose, black, thick 

 walled, not sunk in the wood, f-1 mm. diam. Ostiola erumpent, 

 slightly projecting, conical, black, not sulcate, not crowded, con- 

 nected by a thin, black crust. Asci clavate, short-stipitate, p. sp. 

 55-62x8-10// (paraphysate)? Sporidia biseriate, cylindrical, 

 slightly curved, yellowish and 2-nucleate at first, becoming brown 

 and uniseptate, but not constricted, 12-15x8-32//. 



Diatrype celastrina E. & E. 



On dead stems of Celastrus scandens, Roekport, Kansas, May, 1894 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,472). 



Stromata scattered, cortical, light wood-color within, depressed-coni- 

 cal, 2-3 mm. diam., raising the epidermis into distinct pustules, rup- 

 tured above with a small, elliptical opening by the dark-gray disk. 

 Perithecia 4-12 iu a stroma, subcircinate, ovate, about ixf mm. 

 diam. Ostiola scattered or erumpent around the margin of the disk, 




^44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



flat, with au irregularly shaped openiug. Asci clavate- cylindrical, 

 60-70x7-8,". (p. sp. 30-35,v, long;, paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia 

 biseriate, cylindrical, smoky yellow-brovvn, slightly curved, obtuse, 

 10-12x2-3//. Stroma circumscribed by a black line, which does 

 not penetrate the wood. This can hardly be the Sphceria dolom Fr., 

 said by Schw. to occur on Celadrm. It is certainly different from 

 the spec, so labeled in Sydow's Mycotheca Marchica. 

 Anthostoma formosum E & E. 



On bark of dead Geltis occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas, June, 

 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,492). 



Stromata scattered, cortical, thick-convex, 2-4 mm. diam., orbicu- 

 lar or elliptical, formed from the scarcely altered substance of the 

 bark. Perithecia 12-20 buried in the stroma but not penetrating 

 to the wood, ovate-globose, with thick, cartilagino-membranaceous 

 walls, black and shining inside, about 1 mm. diam., their slender 

 necks converging, their stout, conic- cylindrical ostiola with smooth 

 rounded tips, erumpent in a close fascicle and projecting, when fully 

 developed for 1 mm. or more, or quite as often, merely raising and 

 rupturing the epidermis, but scarcely rising above it. Asci cylin- 

 drical, stipitate, paraphysate, p. sp. 60-70x4-5//. Sporidia unise- 

 riate, oblong, dark brown (subhyaline and nucleate at first), 

 straight, obtuse, 7-10x3-4//. 



Anthostoma micrcecium E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Asimina triloba, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Stroma cortical, faintly circumscribed, 1-1 2 mm. diam., orbicular, 

 convex. Perithecia 4-8 in a stroma, globose, minute (200-250/'), 

 circinate, necks slender, short, converging, with the minute, papilli- 

 form ostiola erumpent in a small, black, hemispherical disk, which 

 barely pierces the pustuliform-elevated epidermis, and is closely em- 

 braced by it. Asci cylindrical, 80-110 x 8-10/*, paraphysate 8-spored. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, brown, continuous, 2-nucleate, 12-14 

 X 6-7//. 



Distinguished by its very small stroma and perithecia. 

 Diatrypella prunicolaE& E. 



On dead limbs of Primus Pennsylvaniea, Alcove, N. Y., Feb. 

 1894 (C. L. Shear, No. 298, partly). 



Stroma seated on the inner bark, convex- hemispherical, 3-4 mm. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



diara., tobacco-color inside, not circumscribed, crowded above with 

 the dense, flat- topped orbicular or elliptical fascicle of hemispheri- 

 cal, smooth, soon broadly and irregularly perforated ostiola, which 

 raise and pierce the epidermis with an orbicular opening or oftener 

 protrude through transverse cracks. Perithecia irregularly poly- 

 stichous, small (110-150//.), black and shining inside, numerous, 

 subglobose. Asci clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, 65-70x8-10;/, 

 polysporous, paraphysate. Sporidia irregular crowded, yellowish in 

 the mass, allantoid, 5-6x1//. 



Phyllachora asterigena E & E. 



On living leaves of Aster oblongifolws, Rockport, Kansas, Aug. 

 1893 (Bartholomew, No. 1,040). (Stylospores. ) 



Forming orbicular or elongated, black patches, 2—6 mm. in extent, 

 on the under side of the leaves. Stroma thin, gray inside, surface 

 roughened by the prominent, conic-hemispherical, perforated ostiola. 

 Ascigerous cells numerous, subglobose, about 100// diam. Sporules 

 oblong or cj'lindrical, hyaline, uniseptate, slightly constricted at the 

 septum, obtuse, 15— 25 x 4-4 1//.. 



This does not seem to be Dothidea Haydeni, B. & C. , which is 

 represented as growing on the stems and having "sporidia linear, 

 attenuated at each end." 



Dothidea Solidaginis Schw. has a different habit, stromata numer- 

 ous, scattered, tuberculiform and mostly less than 1 mm. diam. 



Hypoxylon occidentale E. & E. 



On dead limbs and trunks. Pasadena, Cal. (Prof. A. J. McClat- 

 chie). 



Stroma hemispheric-tuberculiform, superficial, sessile, 2-10 cm. 

 diam., surface roughened by the large, hemispherical ostiola, and 

 clothed with a thin coat of short, olivaceous hyphse, bearing globose, 

 ovate, or oblong-cylindrical conidia, nearly hyaline and continuous 

 at first, finally pale brown and 1-3 septate, 4-15x4-5/'. Perithecia 

 peripheral, l-lixl-l mm. Asci cylindrical, 120-150 (p. sp. 

 about 100) x6-7/', paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, ob- 

 long-elliptical, subinequilateral, olive-brown, 14-16x6-7/'. 



Has the aspect of Daldinia concentrka, but not zonate withi)% the 

 inner substance consisting of a compact mass of radiating, sooty black 

 fibers with a silky luster. The species is allied to H. malleolus 

 B. & R. , from which it is distinguished by its more prominent ostiola 




346 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



not surrounded by any distinct annular depression, and by its broader 

 sporidia and the presence of a conidial layer. 



Hypoxylon Nuttallii E. & E. 



On bark of dead Magnolia Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 477). 



Stromata gregarious, subconfluent, depressed-hemispherical or 

 strongly convex, 3-6 mm. diam., purplish-black, mammillose. Peri- 

 thecia small (about \ mm.), scattered irregularly through the stroma, 

 which is rather soft and brownish withiu. Ostiola crowning the 

 mammillose projections on the surface of the stroma, papilliform, 

 soon deciduous, leaving a round perforation. The asci in the specc. 

 examined had disappeared. Sporidia brown, oblong-elliptical, subin- 

 equilateral, 7-8x3-4/'. (exceptionally '9x5,'/). 



Hypoxylon atroviride E. & E. 



On bark of dead tree (Betiila or Querciis), Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 275). 



Stroma pulvinate, 1-1 ^ cm. across, and about 4 mm. thick, or- 

 bicular, covered above with a thin (i mm.) carbonaceous crust, 

 which is soon covered by a dark green layer of the ejected spores, 

 laterally and internally dirty umber color. Perithecia (which con- 

 stitute the entire inner substance of the stroma) ovate compressed, 

 and including the long, stout neck, about 3 mm. long and 1 mm. 

 broad below. Ostiola papilliform, soon covered and obscured by the 

 ejected sporidia. Asci cylindrical 100x32-4 " (p. sp. 40-45 long), 

 paraphysate, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, pale 

 brown, under the microscope 2-uucleate, 4^-52 x 2,7. 



This is a well- marked species. The substance of the stroma, ex- 

 cept the superficial, carbonaceous layer, is friable, and in this respect 

 as well as the color resembles H. Petersii B. & C. , from which, how- 

 ever, in other respects it is very distinct. 



Hysterium cedrinum E. & E. 



On weather-beaten wood of a white cedar post, Rockport, Ks., 

 March, 1894 (Bartholomew, No. 1,422). 



Scattered, erumpent, narrow-elliptical, minute (1-i mm.), black, 

 subrugulose, not polished, lips thin, loosely closed, when fresh open 

 exposing the dark-colored disk. Asci oblong, obtuse above, ab- 

 ruptly contracted below into a short stipe, 46-55x16-3 7,'/, paraphy- 

 sate, 8-spored. Sporidia biseriate, ovate-elliptical, 3-septate, scarcely 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



or only very slightly constricted, obtuse at the ends, subinequilateral, 

 18-21x7-8", the cells uniformly brown, and each with a large 

 nucleus. 



Conies near H. vuhjare De Not. and H. ellipticum Fr., but both of 

 these have oblong sporidia, and the former has shining perithecia, 

 besides their different habitat. 



Hypoderma tunicatum E. & E. 



On dead branches of Ardostaphylos Nevadensu Gray, Mt. Paddo, 

 Wash., July, 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 268). 



Perithecia oblong or lanceolate, prominent, 1-3 x f-l mm., brown- 

 ish-black, ends subacute, entirely closed at first, finally opening by 

 an irregularly torn, longitudinal fissure along the top, exposing the 

 pale disk. Asci clavate, 150-200x18-20//, 8-spored, with filiform, 

 branching paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, hyaline, oblong- elliptical, 

 slightly curved, 3-septate, and including the broad, hyaline envelope, 

 22x8-10;/, the septate body of the spore being about 20x3 2-4;'. 



On the tips of the branches was found Melanomma alpestre E. & E. 



Hypoderma Cassandrae E. & E. 



On dead stems and branches of Cassandra calyculata, Ann Arbor, 

 Mich., April, 1893 (L. N. Johnson). 



Perithecia scattered or gregarious, erumpent, elliptical or oblong, 

 1— Ijxi-f mm., membranaceo-coriaceous, black, bordered by the 

 ruptured and upturned epidermis, lips thin, incurved and closed 

 when dry so as to hide the grayish-black disk, finally deciduous. 

 Asci clavate, narrowed gradually below into a stipe-like base, 

 45-60 x 10-12;/ above, rounded at the apex, paraphysate. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong or oblong-elliptical, hyaline, mostly a little curved, 

 obtuse, continuous, 10-16x4—6;/. 



Not to be confounded with Lophoderynhim ( Cenanghmi) Cassandrae, 

 (Pk. ), which has much longer, linear or filiform sporidia. 



* * * 



DISCOMYCETES. 



Barlaea lacunosa E. & E. 



On bark, Notre Dame Bay, Newfoundland, May, 1894 (Rev. A. 

 C. Waghorne). 



Sessile 2-I2 cm. broad, orange-color, hymenium deeply lacunose, 

 yellowish-white outside and minutely tomentose, margin undulate 

 and narrowly incurved. Asci cylindrical, p. sp. 70-90;/, 8-spored. 




348 PROCPJEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Paraphyses gradually thickened upwards, hyaline, 3-3^,". thick at 

 the apex. Sporidia uniseriate, perfectly globose, hyaline, 8-10// 

 diam. 



Comes near B. epichrysea Beck, but asci and sporidia smaller and 

 hyraenium lacunose. 

 Ciboria juncigena E. & E. 



On dead stems of Juncus, Falcon Valley, Wash., May, 1883 

 (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 371). 



Stipitate, shallow cup-shaped, thin, 4—5 mm. diam., glaucous-prui- 

 nose outside, disk wine-colored, subumbilicate. Stipe about 1 cm. 

 long, 1 mm. diam. below, black and longitudinally wrinkled for 

 about t the way up, flesh-color above, base flattened and attached to 

 the culm but not penetrating it. Asci clavate-cylindrical, about 

 60 X 4-5//., paraphysate, 8-sj>ored. Sporidia subbiseriate, allantoid, 

 slightly curved, hyaline, continuous, 7-8 x 1 i//., 

 Ciboria Johnsoni E. & E. 



N. A. F. No. 3,131. 



Growing from decaying "thorn apples" (fraits of Cratmgus), 

 more or less buried in the ground, Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 1893 

 (L. N. Johnson, No. 626). 



Stipe slender, 10-25 mm. long, subundulate, slightly enlarged 

 above into the strongly concave, 3-8 mm. diam., light dirty brown 

 ascoma. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 8-spoi-ed. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, mostly overlapping and oblique, sometimes sub- 

 biseriate, ovate-elliptical, subacute, hyaline, continuous, 8-10x4-5//. 



The disk in drying becomes grayish- white. 

 Lachnella rhizopMla E. & E. 



On decaying roots of Rhus diversiloba, Columbia River, W. 

 KlikitatCo., Wash., Jan. 1894 (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 306). 



Gregarious, subsessile, dirty white, cup-shaped and 2-I mm. diam. 

 when fresh, contracted and closed when dry, at flrst subglobose and 

 nearly closed, outside clothed and margin fringed with straight, 

 rough, pale brown (under the microscope), sparingly septate hairs 

 100-150 X 4//. Asci cylindrical, short-stipitate, 8-spored. Para- 

 physes filiform, scarcely thickened above, about as long as the asci. 

 Sporidia overlapping-uuiseriate, or biseriate, fusoid, hyaline, 2-3- 

 nucleate, 10-12 x 3//. 



The ascomata remain cup-shaped, with the margin erect. Disk 

 pale, without any distinct shade of vellow. 




1894.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



Lachnella Virginica E & E. 



On decaying wood of Magnolia Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 380). 



Gregarious, sessile, 4-1^ nim. diam. Disk pallid, concave, 

 nearly closed when dry, margin fringed with brown, septate hairs, 

 100-125 X 3,'/, outside clothed with shorter, reddish- brown hairs. 

 Asci about 50 x 5,', clavate-cylindrical, short-stipitate, paraphysate, 

 8-spored. Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong, 6-8x1^-25//. 



Pseudohelotium laricinum E. & E. 



On decaying needles of Larix, in a "Tamarack Swamp," North- 

 field, Mich., June, 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No. 657). 



Ascomata sessile, thin, almost membranaceous, carnose, orange 

 colored, flat-discoid, 3-5 mm. diam., darker outside and minutely 

 pubescent, margin incurved when dry, beset with short, compound, 

 conical processes formed by the prolongation of the cellular structure 

 of the ascoma. Asci cylindrical, about 75-8//, with filiform para- 

 physes, not thickened above, 8-spored. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong- 

 elliptical, obtuse, hyaline, continuous, 8-10x4-5// (mostly about 4//). 



[n old, partly weathered specc. the color becomes a lighter orange. 



Cyathicula alpina E. & E. 



On dead stems of Pedieularis, and culms of Elymus condensatus, 

 N. W. Colo., July, 1894, alt. 9,500 ft. 



Minute, about f mm. high, stipitate, ascomata, shalloAv cup-shaped 

 when fresh, closed when dry, about =} mm. diam., disk and margin 

 pallid, structure fibrous, the extremities of the fibers prolonged and 

 subfasciculate so as to make the margin of the ascoma obscurely den- 

 tate. Stipe about } mm. high, whitish. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 

 short-stipitate, with filiform paraphyses scarcely thickened at the 

 apex. Sporidia oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, continuous, 8-10 x 1^- 

 2'. The outside of the cups is more or less farinose and becomes 

 quite dark. 



This is very near Helotium nigrescens Cke., which lacks the den- 

 tate margin, and has larger asci and sporidia, besides being much 

 darker. 



Mollisia Gaultheriae E. & E. 



On living leaves of Gaultheria Shallon, Seattle, Wash., Dec. 1893 

 (Adella M. Parker, No. 185, in part). 




350 PKOCEEDINGS (JF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Spots large (l-'2 era.), orbicular, dirty brown, paler and purple 

 margined above, sometimes ii'regular in shape and occupying the 

 greater part of the leaf. Ascomata araphigenous, but more numer- 

 ous below, superficial on paler parts of the spots, small (2 mm. 

 diara. ), dark liver-color (nearly black when dry), margin nodulose- 

 dentate or subentire, glabrous, concave. Asci clavate-oblong, 45- 

 55 X 10-12,'/, with a short, nodular stipe and filiform, branched 

 paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, hyaline, continuous, 10-12 

 X 3-82//., ends obtuse. 



Allied to M. priiticola E. & E., but differs in several respects. 



Tapesia Coloradsnsis E. & E. 



On bark of Sambucus melanocarpa, Cameron Pass, Colorado, July, 

 1894, alt. 10,000 ft. (C. F. Baker, 236, partly). 



Ascomata scattered or subgregarious, sessile, seated on the epider- 

 n)is or on the surface of the inner bark, 1-2 mm. diam., glabrous, 

 nearly black outside, disk glaucous-white, or livid-white at first, 

 becoming nearly black when dry, margin paler, thin and subundu- 

 late. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 45-55 x 8-10//, narrowed below into 

 a short, thick stipe, 8-spored, with stout but evanescent paraphyses. 

 Sporidia biseriate, oblong-cylindrical, smoky-hyaline, often slightly 

 curved, continuous, obtuse, 8-11 x 22-32//. 



The ascomata are surrounded by a thin, brown subiculum (more 

 or less distinct), composed of slender pale brown, sparingly septate, 

 interwoven hyphae. 



Allied to T. fusca (Pers. ). 



When dry the opposite sides of the ascomata roll together in a 

 hysteriform manner. 



Helotiella pygmsea E. & E. 



On old cornstalks, Ohio (Morgan, No. 993). 



Gregai-ious, minute, pallid, yellowish outside, sparingly clothed 

 and margin fringed with pale slender hairs. When moist convex- 

 discoid, \—i mm. diam., pallid; when dry urceolate and yellowish, 

 attached to the matrix by a central point and by light colored hairs. 

 Asci (p. sp. ) about 30 x 6//. (paraphysate?), 8-spored. Sporidia bi- 

 seriate, fusoid-obloug, hyaline, 4-nucleate, becoming uniseptate, and 

 sometimes slightly constricted, 10-14 x 3-32//. 



Differs from H. carnosnla Rehm in its smaller size and absence of 

 any clavate paraphyses. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIIjADEJ.PHIA. 351 



Helotiella papyricola E. & E. 



On old paper lying by the roadside, Ann Arbor, Mich., March, 

 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No. 1,564, partly). Found also at Newfield, 

 N.J. 



Ascomata gregarious, sessile or contracted below into a very short 

 stipe, pale orange, of a .soft waxy consistency, discoid when fresh, 

 and 200-300 " diam., subspherical and nearly closed when dry, out- 

 side, sparingly furfuraceous, margin fringed with short, spreading 

 hairs. Asci oblong, very short-stipitate, obscurely paraphysate, 

 8-spored, 25-30 x 12//, or elongated, 50-60 x 8/'. Sporidia biseri- 

 ate, cylindric-fusoid, hyaline, slightly curved, siibobtuse, 2-4-nucle- 

 ate, becoming uniseptate, but not constricted, 12-15 x 3;/. 



The paper is stained orange-red around the groups of ascomata. 



Helotiella major E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Ann Arbor, Mich., June, 1893 (F. E. Langdon, 

 Comm. L. N. Johnson, No. 12). 



Ascomata gregarious, often subconfluent, sessile, 1-2 mm. diam., 

 dirty orange inside, dirty white outside and sparingly clothed (the 

 whitish margin more densely so) with short, pale, glandular hairs, 

 expanded when mature and fresh, margin incurved when dry, at- 

 tached to the matrix by spreading, white filaments, which also form 

 a thin subiculum when the ascomata are crowded. Asci oblonsf- 

 cylindrical, sessile, paraphysate, 8-spored, 65-70 x 7-8". Sporidia 

 mostly biseriate, oblong-cylindrical, slightly curved, hyaline, unisep- 

 tate, not constricted, 12-16 x 2i-3,'/. 



H. cornida (Ell.) is much smaller and has the sporidia apiculate. 

 H. Niittallii E. & E. , to which this is closely allied, is also smaller, 

 with the ascomata of fibrous structure, and clothed with longer and 

 much more abundant hairs. Occasionally a spore is 3-septate, but 

 the texture of the ascomata is caruose, not waxy or coriaceous as in 

 Dermatelht. 



Helotiella Nuttallii E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Nuttallburg, West Va., March, 1894 (L. W. 

 Nuttall, 397). 



Ascomata gregarious, sessile, flat-hemispherical, l-l mm. diam., 

 cup-shaped when fresh, contracted and subspherical when dry with 

 only a small round apical opening, orange color tljroughout, disk 

 watery orange, outside and fringed margin paler. Substance fibrous, 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



the fibres prolonged above so as to make a marginal fringe of pale 

 yellow, roughish, straight hairs. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 

 curved 50-60 x 5-6//. Paraphyses filiform, hardly thickened above, 

 with a series of orange-colored, globose nuclei. Sporidia biseriate, 

 oblong, hyaline, obtuse, uniseptate but not constricted, 8-10 x 25-3//. 

 The outside of the ascomata is slightly hairy so that the specc. might 

 be referred to Solenopeziza, if that is really worthy of generic dis- 

 tinction. 



Dermatella viticola E. & E. 



On dead shoots of Vitis (cult.), Nuttallburg, West Va., Jan. 1894, 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 295, partly). 



Sessile, convex-discoid and pale when moist, concave and flesh- 

 color when dry, and then scarcely projecting above the surface of 

 the bark, j-f mm. diam. Asci clavate-cylindrical, about 70 x 12//., 

 with filiform paraphyses, 8-spored, subsessile. Sporidia subbiseriate, 

 oblong- elliptical, hyaline, 1-3-septate (3-4-nucleate at first), 15-18 

 X 6-6 i/'. 



Belonium arabicolum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Arabls furcata, Mt. Paddo, Wash., alt. 6-7,000 

 ft., July, 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 347). 



Ascomata erumpent-superficial, sessile, orbicular, black, 300-400//. 

 diam., subdiscoid, marginate, Asci clavate, 80-100 x 9-10//, with 

 filiform paraphyses broadly curved at the tips. Sporidia filiform, 

 nucleate (becoming septate)? 40-60 x 11//. 



Resembles outwardly Pyrenopeziza atrata (Pers.). 



Tympanis Oxydendri E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Oxydendrum arboreum, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 258). 



Cespitose, 3-5 together, erumpent, at length deciduous, black, 

 j-if mm. diam., contracted below into a short, thick stipe, margin 

 subundulate. Asci cylindrical, 110-130 x 15-18//, including the 

 short stipe. Paraphyses slender, abundant. Sporidia numerous, 

 minute, oblong, hyaline or yellowish, 22-3 x 1//.. 



Allied to T. fasciculata Schw., but asci larger and sporidia smaller. 



Stictis Vaccinii E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Vacclnium ovatum, Tracyton, Kitsap Co., Wash., 

 Dec. 1893 (Adella M. Parker, No. 217). 



Hypophyllous, gregarious, erumpent, generally on an indefinite. 




1894.] NATUKAJ> SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



pale spot which is often visible also on the upper side of the leaf, but 

 often without any spot, orbicular or somewhat irregular in outline 

 f-1 mm. diam., with a prominent, light colored, 3-4-cleft margin, 

 Hymenium glaucous white, plane. Asci clavate-cylindrical, sessile, 

 70-75 X 6,'/. Paraphyses filiform, branched at the tips and bearing 

 minute, subglobose, hyaline conidia. Sporidia filiform, multinucle- 

 ate, hyaline, 50-55x1^-2/7.. 



This is a more robust species than S. quercifolia Cke., which also 

 has longer asci and narrower sporidia, but the two are closely allied. 



Stictis chrysopsis E. & E. 



On dead stems of Ceanothus integerrimus, Columbia River, W. 

 Klikitat Co., Wash., Jan. 1894 (W.N. Suksdorf, No. 309). 



Ascomata scattered, immersed, exposed above and at first covered 

 with a thin, white membrane, soon open, urceolate, exposing the deep 

 orange-colored disk, 1-1 o mm. diam. Asci cylindrical, 200-225 x 

 8-10/^. Paraphyses filiform, about as long as the asci, simple, scarcely 

 thickened above, about 1," thick. Sporidia filiform, multinucleate, 

 nearly as long as the asci, li— 2// thick, hyaline, interwoven. 



Schizoxylon compositum E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Quercus coccinea, Newfield, N. J., and on dead 

 twigs of Symphoricarpos occidentalis, Rockport, Kansas (Bartholo- 

 mew). 



Ascomata erumpent-superficial, discoid, white pruinose, f-lj mm. 

 diam. Disk, when the white pruinose layer disappears, distinctly 

 olivaceous. Asci fusoid-cylindrical or lanceolate, 150-200 x 8-10//, 

 8-spored, short-stipitate. Sporidia linear, 100-150 x 3-4//. Sepa- 

 rating into elliptical or oblong joints 5-8 x 3-4//. 



This differs from all the other species in the excipulum, containing 

 often 2-6 distinct ascigerous nuclei, resembling on a horizontal sec- 

 tion, so many imbedded perithecia. The paraphyses are filiform 

 and more or less recurved and branched above. 



Sphaeropeziza Coloradensis E. & E. 



On decorticated stems of PotentUla frxiticosa. North Park, Colo. , 

 July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 30). 



Ascomata scattered, erumpent-superficial, about f mm. diam., 



subglobose and closed at first, then depressed and dehiscent above, 



with the fimbriate-lacerate margin incurved. Asci clavate, 45-50 



X 5-6//, sessile and closely surrounded and overtopped by the con- 



24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



glutinate paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-cylindrical, hyaline, 

 2-5- (mostly 3-) septate, not constricted, ends rounded, 10-14 x 3-3 J//. 



Patinella macrospora E. & E. 



On dead stems of Geum Rossii, mountains above Cameron Pass, 

 N. W. Colo., alt. 12,000 ft., July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 

 24). 



Ascomata gregarious, discoid, superficial, attached by a central 

 point, olive-black, glabrous, about f mm. diam., disk flat, with a 

 thin, narrow, entire, erect margin. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100- 

 110 X 15-20,'/. 8-spored. Paraphyses stout, simple, olivaceous 

 above, and enlarged into an obovate, olivaceous head, 6—7 x 5—6//.. 

 Sporidia uniseriate below, sul)biseriate above, elliptical, hyaline, 

 smooth, 2-nucleate, about 20 x 10,", apparently not fully matured. 



Differs from P. hyalophcea Sacc. principally in its much larger 

 sporidia. 



Scleroderris orientalis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Cedrus Libani (cult.), Newfield, N. J., April, 

 1894. 



Ascomata erumpent, cespitose, obconical, dirty white, small, 300- 

 400,'. diam., pulverulent, closely crowded together, or more rarely 

 single, with much the same habit as S. pallldala Cke., and Dermatea 

 carnea C. & E. Disk plane or convex, immarginate. Asci clavate- 

 oblong, stipitate, p. sp. 55-60 x 12-14'/, i)araphysate. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong, obtuse, straight or slightly curved, 3-septate, not 

 constricted, hyaline, 18-23 x 8-10,". 



.* * * * SPH^ROPSIDEiE. 



Phyllosticta lindericola E. & E. 



On leaves of Lindera Benzoin, Nuttallburg, West Va., Sept. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 593). 



Spots various, punctiform and minute without any definite border 

 or irregular in shape, 1 mm.-l or li cm. diam., or marginal, form- 

 ing a narrow strip along the edge of the leaf for half its length, pale 

 brown, nearly the color of weather-beaten wood, with a dark (almost 

 black) border. Perithecia epiphyllous, hemispherical, 100-120//. 

 diain., covered by the blackened epidermis which is raised into pustules 

 barely pierced at the apex. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 4- 

 7 X 2-3//.. 



This differs in almost every respect from Ph. Liiuleni' E. & E. 




1894.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Phyllosticta Brunellse E. & E. 



On leaves of Brunella vulgaHs, Seattle, Wash., Sept. 1892 (Prof. 

 C. V. Piper). 



Spots rusty brown, of irregular shape, subaugular, 3-4 mm. diam., 

 or often much larger, occupying half or more of the leaf, definitely 

 limited but without any distinct border. Perithecia buried in the 

 substance of the leaf, minute, dark colored, scarcely visible. 

 Sporules cylindrical, 3-3^ x s-f/^, straight, obtuse, slightly swollen 

 at each end, much like those of Ph. osteospora Sacc, which, however, 

 has sporules 6-7 x 1//. 

 Phyllosticta ferax E. & E. 



On fading leaves of Lupinus albifrons, Pasadena, Cal., Apr. 

 1894 (Prof A. J. McClatchie, 682). 



Spots subindefinite, epiphyllous, dark, dirty brown, more or less 

 confluent, blackening and killing the leaves. Perithecia epiphyllous, 

 abundant, scattered over the spots and over the green parts of the 

 leaf, semiemergent, globose, of rather coarse cellular structure, 

 110-150;'- diam., perforated above. Sporules abundant, hyaline, 

 continuous, 3-4 x 1-1 i//. 

 Phyllosticta macrospora E. & E. 



On leaves of Liriodendron Tulipifera, Nuttallburg, West Va. , 

 Aug. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Spots few, suborbicular, ferruginous-gray, 3-5 mm. diam., with a 

 narrow, raised, darker border. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 

 nucleate, 15-30 (mostly 20-25 x 6-7//.). 

 Phyllosticta allantospora E. & E. 



On leaves of Cakile Americana, Sandy Hook, N. J., June, 1892 

 (F. L. Stevens). 



Spots suborbicular, wood-color brown, 3-4 mm. diam., margin 

 broad, greenish, subindefinite. Perithecia epiphyllous, subdiscoid, 

 perforated, 100-110;i diam. Sporules oblong or short-cylindrical, 

 hyaline, obtuse, mostly a little curved, 3-5 x H//. 

 Phyllosticta Araliae E. & E. 



On leaves of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, West Va., Sept. 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 588). 



Spots suborbicular, light brown, with the margin a little darker, 

 j-1 cm. diam. Perithecia epiphyllous, somewhat flattened, 100- 

 150//. diam. Sporules oblong-elliptical, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 10- 

 15x5-6//. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Phyllosticta Aplectri E. & E. 



On leaves of Apledrum hyemale, Naaman's Creek, Del., Apr. 

 1894 (Commons, No. 2,408). 



Spots of irregular shape, whitish, with a shaded purple border, 1 

 cm. diam. Perithecia crowded in the spots, erumpeut, depressed- 

 globose, 75-90//., with a distinct papilliform ostiolum, of a coarse 

 cellular, dark olivaceous texture. Sporules elliptical, hyaline, 6-9 x 

 5;', filled with small nuclei. Accompanied by Fusicladium Aplectri 

 E. & E. on the same spots. 



Phyllosticta rhoicola E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhns Toxicode)idron,^utta\\huYg, West Va. , Aug. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 567, partly). 



Spots 4-6 mm. diam., deciduous, grayish-white, with a narrow 

 black border. Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered, 100-110," diam., 

 convex-prominent above, visible also below. Sporules narrow-ellip- 

 tical, hyaline, 2-nucleate, 5-6 x 2-3;/. 



Differs from P. toxirui. E. & M. in its larger deciduous spots with 

 a narrow border, and its narrow-elliptical sporules. 



Phyllosticta Anemonis E. & E. 



On leaves of Anemone Pennsylvanica, Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 

 1893 (Harriet L. Merrow). 



Perithecia gregarious, hypophyllous, depressed-globose, erumpent- 

 superficial, 90-110// diam., subastomous, on light brown, dead look- 

 ing areas of the leaf, more or less distinctly bounded by the veinlets. 

 Sporules short-cylindrical, slightly curved, obtuse, 5-7 x li//. 



This is different from Phyllachora Anemonis (Fr.), which is found 

 both on the petioles and leaves, and has the characteristic stromata 

 of the Dothideaceie, the single stromata being about twice as large 

 as the perithecia of our Phyllosticta. and each containing (sec. spec, 

 in F. G. 192) 3-6 ascigerous cells. 



Phyllosticta Quercus-Prini E. & E. 



On leaves of Quercus Prinus, Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 542). 



Spots orbicular, rusty brown, definite, with a very narrow border, 

 2-3 mm. diam. Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered, erumpent, 90- 

 110// diam. Sporules ovate or oblong, hyaline, mostly a little 

 curved, 5-6^ x 2-2i'/. 



This comes verv near Ph. Lndoviciana E. & E. (J. M. II, p. 




1894.] NATURAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



130), but in that species the spots are larger, perithecia more 

 prominent below, and sporules rather larger. Ph. marginalis E. & 

 E. also has similar sporules but the perithecia are hypophyllous. 

 Phyllosticta Castaneae E. & E. 



On leaves of Castanea vesca, near Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 570). 



Spots orbicular, rust coloi*, with narrow, dark-shaded margin. 

 Perithecia epiphyllous, scattered on the spots, dark, semierumpent, 

 100" diam., often collapsing. Sporules oblong, hyaline, 5-7x2- 



Phoma negundinioola Thum., var. ramicola E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Apr. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 466), Delaware (Commons). 



Perithecia evenly, but not thickly scattered, globose, small, J-J 

 mm. diam., covered by the slightly ruptured epidermis, but dis- 

 tinctly prominent. Sporules oblong-elliptical, or ovate, hyaline, 

 with a single large nucleus, 10-13 x 4-52/'. 



Differs from the typical form on the dead peduncles, in its broader 

 (2J-3,'/) sporules. 



Phoma Pennsylvauica E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Acer Pennsylvanicum, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Feb. 1894 (Nuttall, No. 318). 



Perithecia numerous, evenly scattered, subepidermal, i-| mm. 

 diam., whitish inside, raising the epidermis into minute pustules, but 

 8carceh' rupturing it. Sporules subglobose, 6-71//. diam., nearly 

 hvaliue. 

 Phoma pedunculi E. & E. 



Ou old peduncles of MarpioUa Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Jan. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 297). 



Perithecia scattered, flattish pustuliform, i-| mm. diam., with a 

 prominent, papilliform ostiolum. Sporules fusoid-oblong, hyaline, 2- 

 3-nucleate, 7-11 x 2-2^//, ends acute. 



Differs from Stagonospora peduncAili E. & E. in its larger, flatter 

 perithecia and fusoid-oblong (not* cylindrical), rather shorter sporules. 



Phoma ohscurans E. & E. 



Ou leaves of Fragaria (cult.), Nuttallburg, West Va., and New- 

 field, N. J. 



Spots 5-8 mm. diam. , with a ferruginous center and broad purple 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



border, paler below. Perithecia few, scattered, convex-promiiieut. 

 Sporules oblong - elliptical, hyaline, 2-nucIeate, 4i-5i x 12-2/;. 

 Basidia simple, lanceolate- fusoid, 8-12 x H;/. 



Phyllosticta fragaricola Desm. has similar sporules, but (sec. specc. 

 in the various exsiccati), the spots are much smaller, with a white 

 center. The basidia also indicate Phoma and not Phyllosticta. 



Aposphaeria alpigena E. & E. 



On dead stems of Sambucus nielanocarpa, Cameron Pass, Colo., 

 July, 1894 (C. F. Baker). 



Perithecia scattered, superficial, globose or elliptical, 150-250/jt 

 diam., mostly depressed, obscurely papillate. Sporules elliptical, 

 hyaline, enucleate, S-Si x I^/j- 



Differs from A. fuscidula Sacc. in growing on the bark (not on 

 decorticated limbs), and in its smaller sporules. 



Aposphaeria pezizoides E. & E. 



On decorticated wood of Platanus, Liqvidambar, Fraxinus, Acer, 

 Salix nigra, and S. falcata, Nuttallburg, West Va., April. 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Perithecia erum pent- superficial, seriate-aggregate, hemispherical, 

 about 4 mm. diam., with a distinct papilliform ostiolum, at length 

 collapsing and pezizoid or discoid. Sporules elliptical or ovoid, 4- 

 6 X 2^//, ends obtuse. 



This seems to grow exclusively on abrasions, below high- water 

 mark, made by driftwood on small trees. 

 Spliaeroiiema Physocarpi E. & E. 



On dead stems of Phy so carpus op rdifolitis, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 484). 



Perithecia gregarious, erumpent-superficial, hemispherical, 150^ 

 diam., with a straight, stout beak 90-115// long. Sporules narrow- 

 elliptical, hyaline, 2-3-nucleate, 7-9 x 2hij.. 

 Sirococcus Halesiae E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Halesia tetraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 376). 



Perithecia scattered or 2-3-conuate, erumpent, subglobose, about 

 J mm. diam., black, with a minute papilliform ostiolum. Sporules 

 subglobose, about 3// diam., greenish-hyaline, 3-6-concatenate, the 

 terminal sporule oblong and paler. Chains simple, or sparingly 

 branched, arising directly from the proligerous layer without any 

 distinct basidia, collected in stellate clusters. 




1894.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ''^59 



Pyrenochsete papyricola E. & E. 



On old pasteboard lyiug by the roadside, Newlield, N. J., July, 

 1894. 



Perithecia scattered, subglobcse, 1 00-11 0/i diam., clothed with 

 black, bristle-like hairs. Sporules subglobose or subelliptical, 

 hyaline, 3-3^,". in the longer diameter. 

 Piacosphaeria Arctostaphyli E. & E. 



On dead twigs of Arctostaphylos Nevadensin, Mt. Paddo, Wash., 

 alt. 6,000-7,000 ft., July, 1886 (Suksdorf). 



Stromata erunijient-superficial, pulvinate, l-t mm. diam., flattened 

 and mostly depressed iu the center, dotted with piinctiform ostiola, 

 closely embraced by the epidermis, multilocular. Sporules oblong- 

 cylindrical, hyaline, continuous, 5-6 x 2-22//. 



Has the stroma of Dothidea producing only stylospores. 

 Fusicoccum Tilise E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Tilia Americayia, Naaman's Creek, Del., Aug. 

 1894 (A. Commons, No. 2,517). 



Stromata scattered, buried, conic-ovate, 250-350," diam., one- 

 celled, gray inside, raising the epidermis into acute pustules per- 

 forated with a round opening. Sporules oblong-fusoid, hyaline, 

 2-nucleate, 7-10-2^ x 3//. 

 Fusicoccum ilicinum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ilex opaea, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 496). 



Stromata cortical, convex, about 1 or li mm. diam., multilocular, 

 whitish inside, the tuberculiform apex pierced with a single pore, 

 rupturing the epidermis and slightly raising it. Sporules fusoid, 

 hyaline, nucleate, 15-22 x 2 i -3//. 

 Cytisporella pinicola E. & E. 



On bark of limbs of Abies Enxjelniaiini, N. W. Colo., July, 1894 

 (I'rof C. S. Craudall, No. 6). 



Stromata erurapent-superficial, verruciform, 1-1 i mm. diam., easily 

 deciduous. Perithecia peripherical. Sporules minute, elliptical, 

 hyaline, 3 x lA/', borne on much branched basidia 15-20 x 2//. The 

 habit is that of Dothiorella, but the minute sporules are those of 

 Cytisporella. 

 Cytispora caryigena E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Carya alba, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 513). 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Stroma cortical, convex, l2-2 ram. diam. , slaty black, 4-6-celled, 

 cells yellowish-white, subglobose, small. Sporules allantoid, 

 hyaliue 3^-4 2 x l-l//. 



(Spermogania of Valsa caryigena, B. & C. )? 

 Cytispora exasperans E & E. 



Oil dead limbs of Acer rubrnm, Newfield, N. J., and on Acer 

 Pennsylvanieam, Nuttallburg, West Va. (Nuttall). 



Stroma buried in the bark, orbicular, about 1 ram, diam., 4-6- 

 celled (at length one-celled), prolonged above into a stout, conical 

 beak opening by a single round pore at the apex. Sporules oblong 

 or allantoid, hyaline, 5-7 xli,". 



Cytispora Celtidis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Celtis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. 

 W. Nuttall, No. 314). 



Stroma valsoid, flat, thin, li-2 mm. diam., only peuetrating the 

 surface of the bark, multilocular, gray inside, raising the bark into 

 small pustules and finally rupturing it, cells resembling perithecia. 

 Sporules allantoid, 6-7 x 1-1 2//.. 

 Cytispora plilyctsenoides E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Corylus Avellana, Newfield, N. J., June, 1894. 



Stroraata cortical, conic-convex, 1-1 J mm. diam., indistinctly 

 multilocular, pale inside, with the enclosing layer darker, raising 

 the epidermis into numerous small pustules which are soon ruptured, 

 opening mostly through a single pore. Sporules fusoid, hyaline, 

 2-nucleate, 6-9x2-24/', straight. Basidia simple, attenuated and 

 curved above, about 20 x Ij;/, resembling the sporules of Phlyctcena. 



Cytispora Negundinis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Negundo aceroides, Rockport, Kansas, April, 

 1894 (Bartholomew, No! 1,449). 



Stroma cortical, conic-convex, 1-H mm. diam., slaty black, mul- 

 tilocular, the cells ovate-globose, numerous (15-20 or more), all 

 opening through a single pore in a central column which pierces the 

 epidermis and raises it into little pustules. Sporules allantoid, hya- 

 line, slightly curved, 52-7 x 1 i-l 2//. On branched basidia 20/' long. 



This is different from C. macilenta Rob. and Desm. , as shown by 

 a comparison of the specc. From C. Pseiidoplatani Sacc. , it differs 

 in its longer sporules and branching liasidia. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Cytispora Halesiae E, & E. 



On dead limbs of Halesia tefraptera, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall). 



Stromata convex-conical, sunk in the bark, orbicular, about 1 mm. 

 diam. , white inside, unilocular, the inner surface of the cavity lined 

 with simple, straight basidia about 15//. long, bearing the oblong- 

 fusoid, hyaline, 2-uucleate, straight, 5-7x1-1?// sporules, which are 

 expelled through a single orifice perforating the raised epidermis. 



This probably is the sperraogouial stage of Diaporthe Salesice or 

 D. tetraptera, both of which are found in company with it. 

 Sphaeropsis Coryli E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Corylus Avellana, Newfield, N. J., June, 1894. 



Perithecia thickly scattered, globose, subcuticular, about 2 mm. 

 diam., raising the epidermis into small pustules which are finally 

 ruptured at the apex with a round or elongated opening. Sporules 

 oblong-elliptical, or the longer ones slightly curved and subcylin- 

 drical, 15-20x8-10/-.. 

 Sphaeropsis Asimiuse E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Asimina triloba, Nuttallburg, W. Va. , Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 370). 



Perithecia scattered or subseriate, buried in the bark which is 

 raised into little pustules over them and soon ruptured. Perithecia 

 small (4- mm.), thick-walled, with an obscurely papilliform ostiolura. 

 Sporules oblong-elliptical, brown, obtuse, 18-22x8-10/'. 

 Sphasropsis Neilliae E. & E. 



On Physoearpus opulifoUus, London, Canada, May, 1893 (J. 

 Dearness). 



Perithecia scattered or sometimes 2-3 confluent, small (200/'), 

 covered by the blackened epidermis, semierumj)ent, with a black, 

 shining papilliform ostiolum. Sporules small, acutely elliptical, or 

 ovate-elliptical, pale brown, 12-16x4-5//. 

 Sphaeropsis Physocarpi E. & E. 



On dead Plnjsocarpus opulifoUus, Nuttallburg, West Va;, May, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, Nos. 482 and 486). 



Perithecia scattered, * nini. diam., buried in the inner bark, with 

 their apices and papilliform ostiola erurapent, white inside (at first), 

 sometimes, as in the pi'eceding species 2-3 confluent. Sporules vary- 

 ing from short-elliptical 12-15x10/-, to oblong- or obovate-elliptical 

 15-20x10". 




362 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Differs from the preceding in its huried perithecia and much 

 larger spornles. 



Sph3eropgis Ipomcea E. & E. 



Ou dead peduncles of Ipomcea pandurata, Nuttallbiirg, West Va., 

 Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 249). 



Perithecia scattered, ovate-globose, 250-300/x diam., the upper 

 part prominent and closely covered by the shining black epidermis. 

 Sporules elliptical, brown, 18-23x10-13", on pedicels of about the 

 same length as the sporules. 



Coniothyrium infuseans E. & E. 



On dead stems of Valerimuf, edulit<, Eastern slope of Rabbit Ear 

 Range, Colorado, July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Craudall, No. 10). 



Perithecia densely gregarious, blackening the stems, ovate- globose,, 

 membranaceous, black, erumpent-superticial, 170-200//. diam. 

 Sporules globose- elliptical, brown, 6-8," in the longer diam. 



Haplosporella alpiaa E. & E. 



Cameron Pass, Colorado, July, 1894, 10,000 ft. alt. (C. F. Baker, 

 No. 236). 



On dead stems of Sambucus vielanocarpa. Stroma convex- hemi- 

 spherical, erumpent- superficial, black, 300-400,'. diam. Perithecia 

 (cells) buried in the stroma, 100-150,7 diam., their papilliform 

 ostiola visible on the surface of the stroma. Sporules globose, 5,", 

 or elliptical, 6-7x5//, brown. 



Apparently the pycnidial stage of some dothideaceous fungus 

 (Anerswaldia)'^ 



Haplosporella Araliae E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Ar(dla spiiiosa, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (Nuttall, No. 375). 



Stromata seriate-connate, erumpent through longitudinal cracks in 

 the bark, and extending from 4-5 mm. to 2 or more centimetres. 

 Perithecia ovate-globose, buried in the black, subcarbonaceou& 

 stroma, 3-6 in each single stroma, about ;' mm. diam. Sporules 

 elliptical, brown, 20-25x10-12//. 



This may be the pycnidia of BotryospJueri<( fuliginosa (M. & N.). 



Haplosporella Celtidis E. & E. 



On dead lind)s of Celtis. West Va., Feb. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, 

 No. 315). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIJ.AOEI.PHIA 863 



Perithecia mostly in valsoid clusters of 3-10, small (200//), white 

 inside, slightly sunk in the inner bark, their papilliform ostiola 

 rupturing'' the epidermis. Sporules elliptical, brown, continuous, 

 18-22x10-12,', on basidia of about the same length as the sporules. 

 Diplodia Kansensis E. & E. 



On weather-beaten, bleached bark of Juniperus Vhgbnava, 

 Rockport, Ks., Dec. 1893 (E. Bartholomew, No. 1,292). 



Perithecia scattered, subglobose, erumpent-superficial, i-l mm. 

 diam. Sporules ovate-elliptical, uniseptate, constricted, the septum 

 below the middle, brown, becoming nearly opake, 20-27 x 12-15//. 



Differs from D. Juniper! West, and D. Virginiana Cke., in its 

 larger ovate sporules. 



Diplodia caryigena E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Can/a alba, Canada (Dearness) and West Va. 

 (Nuttall). 



Perithecia subseriate, sunk in the inner bark, covered by the epi- 

 dermis which is raised into pustules and ruptured, about i mm. 

 diam., black. Sporules elliptical, brown, uniseptate, scarcely con- 

 stricted, 15-20 X 8-10/'. (Pycnidia of Valsa caryigena B. & C.)? 

 Diplodia infuscans E. & E. 



On bark of dead limbs of Fraxinus Americana, Nuttallburg, 

 West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 459). 



Perithecia ovate-globose, small, 110-150/-. diam. , thickly scattered, 

 blackening both the outer and inner surface of the bark. Ostiolum 

 not conspicuous, obscurely papilliform. Sporules oblong-elliptical, 

 12-15 X 8-10//, scarcely constricted. 



In D. inquinans West, the sporules and perithecia are larger, and 

 the bark is not blackened within. 



Diplodia Cercidis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Cercis Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Apr. 1894 (L. W. Nuttall No. 449). 



Perithecia subseriate, globose, J-? mm. diam., slightly sunk in 

 the inner bark and splitting the epidermis with short, longitudinal 

 clefts. Sporules elliptical, 20-23 x 10-15/', on stout basidia, 

 uniseptate. 

 Botryodiplodia acerina E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Acer Pennsylvanicii.m, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Feb. 1894 (Nuttall, No. 319). 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Perithecia erumpent in botryoidal clusters often seriately confluent 

 for 1 or more cm., about 2 mm. diam., white inside, flattish above, 

 with a broad papilliform ostiolura. Sporules elliptical, brown, uni- 

 septate, 20-25 x 12-15,", on basidia of about the same length. 



Ascoohyta veratrina E. & E. 



On dead leaves and petioles of Veratrum Galifornicum, Pullman, 

 Wash., Nov. 1893 (Prof C. V. Piper, No. 145). 



Perithecia scattered, sunk in the substance of the leaf with the 

 apex and conic-papilliform ostiolum erumpent, about I mm. diam. 

 Sporules cylindrical, obtuse, 3-4- nucleate, becoming iiniseptate, 

 hyaline, about 12x25-3//.. 



Differs from A. Veratri Cavarra (Fungi Langobardise, No. 98) 

 in its larger, ostiolate perithecia, not on any spots and in its smaller, 

 straight sporules. 



Ascocliyta achlyicola E. & E. 



On leaves of Achhjs triphylla, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1892 (Prof 

 C. V. Piper, No. 114). 



Spots suborbicular or irregular, 3-15 ram. diam., with a dirty 

 white center and a broad, shaded purple margin. The white center 

 is more or less deciduous. Perithecia epiphyllous, innate-prominent, 

 small (75;/), few on a spot. Sporules elliptical, 2-nucleate, hyaline, 

 5-8 x 25-3//., soon becoming uniseptate. 



Ascocliyta Asclepiadis E. & E. 



On leaves of Asdepias Cormdi, Pleasant Hill, Del., May, 1894 

 (Commons, No. 2,420). 



Spots amphigenous, suborbicular, ^-1 mm. diam., grayish, with 

 darker zones and a shaded, dark- brown border. Sporules oblong- 

 (or ovate-) elli[mcal, hyaline, 6-8 x 3/', becoming faintly uniseptate. 

 Perithecia epiphyllous, innate, black, pierced above, 100-110// 

 diam. 



Heudersonia stygia E. & E. 



On decorticated, bleached wood of a Cottonwood log, Rockport, 

 Ks., Dec. 1893 (E. Bartholomew). 



Perithecia erumpent-superficial, scattered, ovate-globose, 2 mm, 

 diam., or hysteriiform, 1 ram. or raore long, at first with a prorainent 

 papilliforra ostiolum, l)ut soon broadly open above, the upper part 

 finally disappearing, leaving the cup-shaped base filled with abundant 

 sporules and then raore resembling acervuli than perithecia. Sporules 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -^65 



ovate-elliptical, subinequilateral, abruptly narrowed at the euds, 

 3-5-septate, but not constricted, the inner cells nearly opake, the 

 small, terminal cells subhyaline, 12-15 x 6-8//.. 



The species is anomalous in the imperfectly developed perithecia, 

 the upper part soon falling away and leaving the cup- shaped base. 



Hendersonia falcata E. & E. 



On bark of fir trees, Exploits, Newfoundland, Dec. 1893 (Rev. 

 A. C. Waghorne, No. 10). 



Perithecia cespitose-erumpent, 6-10 together, united below in a thin 

 stroma, broadly perforated and subcollapsed above. Stromata small 

 (1 mm.), subconfluent and subseriately arranged. Sporules falcate, 

 more abruptly curved or bent above, yellowish-hyaline, granular, 

 becoming 1-3-septate, subattenuated below, on pedicels shorter than 

 the sporules, 20-22 x 5-7/'. 



Differs from Hendersonia rostrata S. & E. in its stroraatic growth 

 and broader, shorter sporules. 



Stagonospora petiolorum E. & E. 



On dead petioles of Aralia spinosa, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 357). 



Perithecia scattered, innate, small, slightly prominent and covered 

 by the shining, blackened epidermis, 150-250,"- diam., mostly-sub- 

 elliptical. Sporules oblong, hyaline, nucleate, becoming 1-or more- 

 septate, 12-20x3-5,'/. 



Stagonospora Physocarpi E. & E. 



On dead stems and limbs of Physocarpas opnlifolius, Nuttallburg, 

 West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 485). 



Perithecia scattered, depressed- hemispherical, 200-250,'/. diam., 

 sunk in the bark, with the upper part prominent but covered by the 

 epidermis which is pierced by the papilliform ostiolum, white inside. 

 Sporules linear, multiseptate, hyaline, 25-35 x 3-4,'/. 



Stagonospora Liriodendri E. & E. 



On decorticated wood of Liriodendron Talipifera, Alcove, N. Y., 

 June, 1893 (C. L. Spear, No., 304). 



Perithecia superficial, evenly scattered or 2-4 subconfluent, ob- 

 tusely conic-globose, about i mm. diam. Sporules cylindrical, 

 hyaline, 8-10 x 2-22,-/, nucleate but not visibly septate, though a 

 central nucleus causes them to appear uniseptate. Basidia slender 

 25-35,'/. long, profusely and subverticillately branched. 




o6B PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Camarosporium Celtidis E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Geltis oceidentalis, Rockport, Ks. , March, 1894 

 (Bartholomew, No. 1,400). 



Perithecia scattered or cespitose, ovate, A nim. diam. , ofteu seriate, 

 covered b}^ the epidermis at first, with the short-cylindrical, obtuse, 

 ostiola erumpeut. Sporules oblong, or oblong-elliptical or even 

 cylindrical, brown, mostly o-septate, 12-15 x 4-5,"., but some of them 

 5-6-septate, with one or two cells divided by a longitudinal septum, 

 15-20 X 5-7//.. 



There is also a Teichospora accompanying, tjut too scanty to admit 

 of accurate description. 



Septoria Echinocystis E. & E. 



On leaves of Echinocystis marah, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Cala., 

 May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No. 220). 



Spots subangular, limited at first by the veinlets and greenish, 

 becoming light brown with the margin darker, 3-5 mm. diam. 

 Perithecia innate, globose, about 80,a diam., thin, imperfectly de- 

 veloped, brown. Sporules linear, hyaline, nearly straight or sub- 

 undulate, becoming faintly 1-2-septate, 25-50 x 25-3,". 



Septoria solanicola E. & E. 



On leaves of Solanum lunheUifermn, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Cala., 

 May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No. 241). 



Spots scattered or confluent, orbicular, 2-3 mm. diam., pale brown 

 with darker border. Perithecia epiphyllous, numerous, pale brown, 

 collapsing, 100-110," diam. Sporules bacillary, hyaline, faintly 

 nucleate, 20-30x11-2],".. 



Diflers from the other species on Solanacece in its shorter, continu- 

 ous sporules. Roumeguere in F. Gallici 722 has a Septoria labeled 

 S. Solani, Roura., on Solanum nigrum, but the spec, is entirely sterile. 



Septoria alnifoiia E. & E. 



On leaves of Alnus rubra, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1893 (Prof C. 

 V. Piper, No. 82). 



Spots red-rusty brown, orbicular or irregular, mostly with a nar- 

 row, dark, raised bordering line, 2-5 mm. diam., more obscure be- 

 low. Perithecia epiphyllous, innate-prominent, black, minute (80- 

 100,".), not abundant. Sporules linear, hyaline, with a row of 

 nuclei, mostly curved to a semicircle. 35-55 x 3,". 



Of the three described species on Almis, S. Alni Sacc. has bacil- 




1894]. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



lary sporules, S. alnicola Cke. has oblong sporules, and S. alnigena 

 Sacc. has no spots. 



Septoria solitaris E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhododendron occidentale, Mill Valley, Cala. , July, 



1893 (W. C. Blasdale, 172). 



Spots amphigenous, i-oun(i^»fhite with a purple boi'der, numerous, 

 about 2 mm. diam. Perithecia mostly one in the center of each 

 spot, globose, 120-150// diam., visible on both sides of the leaf. 

 S[)orules abundant, bacillary, hyaline, continuous, straight or sub- 

 undulate or bent, obtuse, about 20 x 2//. 



Septoria Rhododendrl Cke. has the perithecia aggregated or circi- 

 uate and sporules 40;/. long. 



Septoria (Enanthis E. & E. 



On leaves of (Enanthe sarmentosa, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1892 

 (Prof C. V. Piper, No. 50). 



Spots scattered, small (1-3 mm.), white, subangular, definite. 

 Perithecia few on a spot (3-6), small (75//.), black (yellow-brown 

 under the microscope), subastomous. Sporules fusoid- cylindrical, 

 hyaline, nucleate, 20-35 x l2-2", ends subacute, slightly curved. 



Septoria saccharina E. & E., var. occidentalis. 



On dead leaves of Acer glahrum, Fairhaven, Wash., Aug. 1892 

 (Prof C. V. Piper, No. 57). 



Differs from the type in having the small, white spots, on which 

 the perithecia are seated, not so evenly distributed over the leaf, but 

 collected on rusty brown, yellow-margined, subindefiuite spots 3-4 

 mm. diam. 

 Septoria circinata E. & E. 



On leaves of Acer circinatuni, Everson, Wash., Aug. 1892 (C. V. 

 Piper). 



Spots orl)icular, scattered, 2-3 mm. diam., pale yellowish-white, 

 definite but without any distinct border. Perithecia amphigenous, 

 few (4-10), subcircinately arranged around the whitish center of the 

 spots, small, 75// diam. Sporules abundant, filiform, variously 

 curved and bent, 30-60x1]//., nucleate, but not septate. Seems 

 quite distinct from the other species on maple. 



Septoria Tecomae E. & E. 



On leaves of Tecoma radicans, Nuttallburg, West Va., Aug. 



1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 580). 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Spots light browu (wood color), irregular in shape, small, I2-2 

 mm. , inconspicuous and indistinctly margined. Perithecia immersed, 

 small (65-70;/), barely visible with a lens. Sporules 40-50 x 2- 

 2§//, not strongly curved, nucleate, hyaline. 



Septoria Ludoviciana E. & E. 



On leaves of Laduca Ludoviciana, Fort Collins, Colo., June, 

 1894 (C. F. Baker, No. 257). 



Spots angular, limited by the veinlets, wood-brown, 2-5 mm. 

 diam., often confluent. Perithecia punctiform, minute, black, 

 epiphyllous, 75-80//. diam., apex erumpent. Sporules cylindrical, 

 more or less curved, obtuse, not septate, 15-25 x 2//. 



Differs from S. unicolor Winter, in its lighter colored, angular 

 spots, rather larger perithecia and thicker sporules; differs also in 

 several respects from S. Laduca: Pass, and S. laducicola E. & M. 



Septoria Trautvetterise E. & E. 



On Trantvetterla palmata, Nuttallburg, West Va. , July, 1894 (L. 

 W. Nuttall, No. 564). 



Spots irregular, subangular, partly limited by the veinlets of the 

 leaf, often elongated and acute at one end, brownish- black, with an 

 irregularly shaped white center which is well defined, angular, 3-5 

 mm. in the longer diam. Perithecia epiphyllous but also visible be- 

 low, small (65-75,".), scattered, dark. Sporules abundant, nearly 

 straight or slightly curved, continuous, 22-30 x 2//. 



Differs from S. A)iemonis Desm. in its broad, dark margined, 

 white centered spots and rather longer aud thicker sporules. 



Septoria Polymniae E. & E. 



On leaves of Folymnia Uveclalla, Nuttallburg, West Va., July, 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 543). 



Spots scattered, angular, limited by the veinlets, 2-4 mm. diam., 

 dirty green. Perithecia epiphyllous, minute, 75//. diam. , scattered, 

 innate, inconspicuous. Sporules filiform, continuous, 35-50 x 1- 

 U/'.. 



Septoria hyalina E. & E. 



On Viola lanceolata, Massachusetts (Miss Clarke); on V. primu- 

 lafolia, West Va. (Nuttall), and on V. hlanda, Michigan (Hicks). 



Spots minute (^-1 mm.), white, with a dark purple-shaded border. 

 Perithecia punctiform, black, epiphyllous, subglobose, 65-75/'. diam., 

 not abundant. Sporules filiform, nearly straight, or slightly curved. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



hyaliue, uucleate, not visibly septate, 20-40 (mostly 25-35) x 1- 



*S. Violce West, has yellowish-brown perithecia on pale zonate 

 spots with a reddish- brown border. 



Septoria micropuncta E. & E. 



On leaves of Osmorrhiza, Washington, D. C. (1891)? (E. A. 

 Southworth). 



Spots small (I-I2 mm.), subangular, white, with a broad, dark 

 colored border. Sporiiles cylindrical, slightly curved, not septate or 

 visibly nucleate, 18-27 x li-l^a. 



This is very different from S. Osmorrhizce Pk. which has the spots 

 larger, perithecia also larger, subdiscoid and amber colored, and 

 sporules 35-55 x 2-2J//., uniseptate. 



Septoria Megarrhizae E. & E. 



On leaves of Megarrhiza Oregana Benton, Wash., July 14, 



1892 (C. V. Piper, No. 112, partly). 



Spots orbicular, dirty white, with a broad, dark colored border, 

 3-5 mm. diam. Perithecia epiphyllous, light colored, innate-sub- 

 prominent, subastomous, thin, SO-llO/Jt diam. Sporules filiform, 

 nearly straight, hyaline, faintly nucleolate, 40-60x22-3,'/.. 



Phleospora Megarrhizae E. & E. 



Same host and collector as Septoria Megarrhizce. 



Spots greenish at first, the central portion (1-3 mm. diam. ) be- 

 coming dirty white with a faint, dark purple margin. Perithecia 

 epiphyllous, subdiscoid, thin, perforated above, light colored, becom- 

 ing darker, 150// diam. Sporules oblong, obtuse, 1-3-septate, 

 hyaline, sometimes narrowed in the middle, 13-27 x 6-8//. 



Distinguished from Septoria Megarrhizoe,, even without microscopi- 

 cal examination by its much smaller subangular white spots. 

 Phlyctaena IpomoBa E. & E. 



On calyx lobes of Ipomcea pandurata, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 Dec. 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 250). 



Perithecia scattered, subcuticular, 75-80// diam., covered by the 

 blackened, slightly raised epidermis. Sporules linear, hyaline, 

 curved above, 15-20 x 11//. 

 Hysteromyxa corticola E. •& E. 



On inner surface of old Cottonwood bark, Rockport, Ks., Dec. 



1893 (E. Bartholomew, No. 1,306). 



25 




370 PROCEKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Perithecia erumpent - superficial, gregarious, membranaceous, 

 yellowish-brown and pustuliform when fresh, collapsing to concave, 

 nearly flat when dry, and then darker colored, the disk or center 

 with a faint, flesh-colored tint, 4-3 mra. diam. Sporules globose, 

 6—8,'j- diam., yellowish, with a tinge of rose color. 



Difi'ers from H. effugietis S. & E. in its different habitat and the 

 darker color of the perithecia. 



Dothichiza Cassandrae E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Cassandra ealyeulata, Ann Arbor, Mich., May, 

 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No. 1,591)'. 



Perithecia erumpent, surrounded by the ruptured epidermis, ovate- 

 globose and closed at first, i mm. diam., then irregularly ruptured 

 and subcupulate, '. mm. diam. Sporules fusoid, hyaline, continu- 

 ous, straight, acute, 10-14 x2-2i'/. 



Apparently the spermogonia stage of Cenangium Cassandrce Pk. 

 Gloeosporium tremuloides E. & E. 



On leaves of Populus tremuloides, Racine, Wis., Sept. 1893 (Dr. 

 J. J. Davis). 



Spots amphigenous, suborbicular, scattered or subcoufluent, defi- 

 nite, dark brown, 2-4 mm. diam. Acervuli innate, globose or ob- 

 long, 75-85". diam. , dark, erumpent on both sides of the leaf, often 

 C'jvered above by the loosened, silvery epidermis. Conidia elliptical, 

 10-13x52—6 2;/., continuous. G. Treiniike, G. Sihiricum, and G. 

 Populi-albce, have fusoid or cylindrical conidia ; G. )icevioides Romell 

 & Sacc. Grev. 21, p. 68, has ovate-oblong conidia, 30-85x10-12//, 

 so that this seems sufficiently distinct from all the other species on 

 poplar leaves. 



Gloeosporium officinale E. & E. 



On leaves of Sassafras officinale, Smyrna, Del., June, 1894 (Com- 

 mons, No. 2,438). 



Spots irregular in shape, 5-I cm. diam., dirty whitish in the 

 center, with the border nearly black. Acervuli minute, numerous, 

 innate, erumpent on both sides of the leaf, l)ut more abundant below, 

 the expelled spores forming little subglobose, pale orange colored 

 suhconfluent heaps. Spores oblong or clavate-oblong or ovate, 8-15 

 X 4-5//. 



This is quite distinct from Gl. Sassafras (Cke), ( Gl. affiue E. & K.), 

 in its much larger spores and the different character of tlie spots. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHiJiADELPHIA. 371 



If, as seems probable, Phyllosticta affinis E. & K. in Am. Nat., Nov. 

 1883, is the same as Ph. Sassafras Cke. in Grev., Sept. 1883, the 

 specific name "Sassafras" will have precedence, and "affine," 

 already preoccupied by Saccardo, will be dropped, and Gl. affine 

 E. & K. will become Gl. Sassafras (Cke.), the fungus being a 

 Gloeosporium and not a Phyllosticta. 



Gloeospormm Sanguinariae E. & E. 



On leaves of Sanguinaria Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., 

 July, 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 555). 



Spots yellow, oblong or irregular, 3-5 mm. diam., situated near 

 tiie apex of the leaf which is more or less uniformly blackened. 

 Acervuli epiphyllous, numerous, innate, yellow and inconspicuous. 

 Conidia oblong, hyaline, continuous, mostly a little curved, 8-15 x 

 3}-5i//. 



Gloeosporium alboferrugineum E. & E. 



On leaves of Acer saccharinum, Peoria, Ills., July, 1894 (F. E. 

 McDonald). 



Spots numerous, small, subangular, partly limited by the veinlets. 

 1-2 mm. diam., deep reddish-brown, whitening out. Acervuli 100- 

 150// diam., hypophyllous, becoming dark. Conidia oblong, hya- 

 line, continuous, 12-14x3-3j,'/. 



Differs from G. saccharinum E. & E. in habit and in its conidia 

 twice as long as in that species. 



GloBOsporium Trillii E. & E. 



On leaves of Trillium sessile, Berkeley, Cala., April 2, 1894 

 (W. C. Blasdale, No. 212). 



Spots amphigenous, scattered, small (1-2 mm.), dirty white, leaf 

 becoming yellowish around them, finally subconfluent causing the 

 leaf to wither and die. 



Acervuli epiphyllous, rather large, yellowish, erumpeut, often 

 only one in the center of the spot. Conidia oblong-cylindrical, 

 slightly curved, 10-15 (mostly 10-12) x 2^-3^//.. 



Gloeosporium serotinum E. & E. 



On leaves of Prunus serotina, Smyrna, Del., June, 1894 (A. Com- 

 mons, No. 2,439). 



Spots suborbicular, 3-10 mm. diam., deep brick-red, definite, 

 soon confluent covering the entire leaf which is then of a deep red- 

 brick color. Acervuli amphigenous, numerous, flesh color. Conidia 

 oblong, straight, obtuse, 12-15x4-5//. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Differs from G. pruaicolum E. & E. (J. M. III., p. 129) princi- 

 pally in the much larger conidia. 



Myxosporium seriatum E. «fe E. 



On maple bark, Nuttallburg, West Va., June, 1894 (L. W. Nut- 

 tall, No. 523). 



Nuclei pallid, orbicular, about 1 mm. diam., seated on the surface 

 of the inner bark ; surrounded by a thin layer of smoky colored 

 radiating hyphse from the inner extremities of which the botuliforra 

 or oblong, 6-8x2-2i'/., hyaline conidia are produced. The nuclei 

 are seriately arranged, and the pale flesh-colored, flattish cirrhi are 

 erumpent through narrow, longitudinal cracks in the bark. 



Myxosporium platanicclum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Platanus, Nuttallburg, West Va., April, 1894 

 (L. W. Nuttall, 467). 



Acervuli subcutaneous, vesiculoid, pale, 1 mm. diam., raising 

 the ruptured epidermis into pustules but not erumpent. Sporules 

 oval or oblong-ovate, hyaline, nucleate at first, 10-12 x 5--6,", on 

 stout basidia. 



CoUetotrichum Ehexice E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhexia Virginica, Kimensi, Del., Aug. 25, 1894 

 (Commons, No. 2,534). 



Spots orbicular, small (1-2 mm.), dirty white with a reddish- 

 purple border. Acervuli mostly epiphyllous, sph^eriteform, erum- 

 pent, 250-350,'/ diam., surrounded or clothed with black bristle-like 

 hairs, 60-70x3-31,".. Sporules oblong, obtuse, binucleate, about 

 12x4,", and very short basidia. 



Cylindrosporium Crataegi E. & E. 



On leaves of CraUegus, Nuttallbui-g, West Va.. July, 1894 (L. 

 W. Nuttall, No. 571). 



Leaves more or less mottled with rusty red, at length uniformly 

 of this .same color. Acervuli innate, erumpent on both sides, and 

 whitening the surface of the leaf with abundantly discharged conidia, 

 which are 75-100 x 3-3j,", nearly straight, or more or less undulate 

 and curved, nucleate, and faintly 3-5-septate. 



Cylindrosporium ulmicolum E. & E. 



On leaves of Ulmus alata Starkville, Miss., Nov. 1893 (Prof S. 

 M. Tracy). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIJOADELPHIA. 373 



Acervuli numerous, small, pale, buried in yellowish, faded areas 

 of the leaf, visible from above, but erumpent below. Conidia cylin- 

 drical, moderately curved, slightly narrowed toward the ends, hya- 

 line, multinucleate, 45-65 x 4//, expelled in small white tufts, on the 

 lower side of the leaf 

 Melanconium stenosporum E. & E. 



On bark of Carya, Ohio (Morgan, No. 1,002). 



Stroma subcuticular, sunk in the surface of the inner bark, orbicu- 

 lar, 1^-2 mm. diam., convex, white inside, but covered by a layer of 

 the narrow, brown, oblong, slightly curved, 13-15 x 3-4;/,. Conidia, 

 which are erumpent in black, hemispherical, finally flattened heaps 

 or masses 1-2 mm. diam. 

 Melanconium acerinum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Acer maerophyUmn, Pasadena, Gala. (Prof. A. 

 J. McClatchie). 



Acervuli buried in the bark, convex, orbicular, 1-1 5 mm. diam., 

 raising and rupturing the epidermis. Conidia ovate, nearly opake, 

 20 X 15//. 

 Marsonia Wyethise E. & E. 



On leaves of Wyetkia glabra, Santa Rosa, Cala. , May, 1894 (W. 

 C. Blasdale). 



Acervuli amphigenous, but mostly hypophyllous, small (65-75,a), 

 orbicular, erumpent, nearly white at first, becoming flesh color, 

 crowded in small, angular patches, mostly limited by the veinlets of 

 the leaf, which in these places soon becomes brown, the brown color 

 finally spreading over a great part of, or over the entire leaf Coni- 

 dia oblong-ovate, hyaline, uniseptate, scarcely constricted, 18-27 x 

 10-13//. 

 Marsonia Fraserse E. & E. 



On leaves of Frasera thyrsiflora Latah Co., Idaho, July, 1892 

 (C. V. Piper, No. 133). 



Spots orbicular, yellowish-brown, ^i— 1 cm. or more diam., with a 

 broad, dark colored border. Acervuli scattered irregularly on the 

 spots, erumpent above, 150-200;/ diam., pale. Conidia oblong- 

 cylindrical, hyaline, uniseptate and more or less constricted at the 

 septum, 12-20 x 5-6/', ends obtuse. 

 Marsonia Veratri E. & E. 



On leaves of Veratrum Californicum, Pullman, Washington, Aug. 

 1893 (C. V. Piper, No. 158). 




374 PROCKKl>TNGS OB^ THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Spots amphigenous, small (2-3 mm.), whitish, with a broad, dull- 

 purple border, which is often elongated in the direction of the veins 

 of the leaf for 2-3 cm., with the ends acute, finally more or less con- 

 fluent, the entire leaf becoming brown and dead. Acervuli small, 

 occupying the centre of the spots, or irregularlj'^ scattered over them. 

 Conidia clavate-cylindrical, curved, upper end subtruncate, lower 

 end attenuated and subacute, uniseptate, hyaline, 18-22 x 3-35,".. 



This is not to be confounded with Cylindrospormm veratrinnm 

 Sacc. & Winter, or with Ascochyta veratrina E. & E. 



Pestalozzia zonata E. & E. 



On decaying fruit of Cydonia, Newfield, N. J. , Sept. 1890. 



Acervuli subepidermal, punctiform, black, raising the cuticle into 

 small pustules, scattered on concentrically zoned, decaying spots on 

 the fruit. Conidia fusoid, 4-septate, slightly constricted at the septa, 

 the two end cells conical and hyaline, the apical one crowned with a 

 spreading crest of three hyaline bristles 15-25// long, the two cells 

 next below quite dark, so as to obscure the septum between them, 

 the cell next below these nearly hyaline. Pedicels very short. 



Pestalozzia Polygoni E. & E. 



On living leaves of Polygonum Virginianum Stanton, Del., Aug. 

 1894 (Commons, No. 2,560). 



Spots dull brick-red, very irregular in shape and size, mostly 

 elongated 2-10 x 1-4 mm., definite, but without any colored border. 

 Acervuli punctiform, black, suberumpent, epiphyllous, scattered. 

 Conidia cylindrical or fusoid-cylindrical, pale, 3-4-septate and more 

 or less constricted at the septa (which are often indistinct, 18-22 x 

 4//, end cells rounded, lower one with a short, slender pedicel, upper 

 one bearing a crest of three, spreading bristles 10-15//. long. 



Pestalozzia toxica E. & E. 



On leaves of Rhus Toxicodendron, Nuttallburg, West Va., Aug. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 567, partly). 



Spots and perithecia as in Phyllosfida rhoicola E. & E. Sporules 

 clavate-oblong, 4-septate, 12-15 x 4-5//, 3 intermediate cells pale 

 brown, end cells short, conical, hyaline, the upper cell with a crest 

 of 3, short, spreading hyaline bristles 6-7/' long. Distance between 

 the two extreme cells 12//. Pedicels shorter than the spores. 



Coryneum oupulatum E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Tsuga Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 

 1893 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 272). 




1894.] NAI'lHAI, SCIKNCES OK PH I LADEI.PHIA. '^75 



Eriimpent superficial. Acervuli tuberculiform, black, 1-1 2 mm. 

 diam., hollowed out so as to be cup-shaped above. Conidia clavate, 

 sessile, 6-9- septate, brown, 60-80 x 12-15//. 



Coryneum abietinum E. & E. 



On bark of fir trees. Exploits, Newfoundland, May, 1894 (Rev. 

 A. C. Waghorn, No. 35). 



Acervuli erumpent, flat, ])ro\vnish-black, IJ-S mm. across, sur- 

 rounded by the upturned epidermis. Conidia pale brown, fusoid- 

 obloug, 3-4-septate, about 20 x 10//, on pedicels of about the same 

 length. 



* * * * * HYPHOMYCETES. 



Bctrytis torta E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri, Nuttallbiirg, West Va. , Dec. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 257). 



Hyphse simple, sparingly branched, twisted above as in B. strepto- 

 thrlx or in Streptothrix atra B. & C, brown, 80-100 x 3-4//, forming 

 numerous small brownish-black tufts, efl^used or gregarious, on both 

 sides of the leaf. Conidia elliptical, brown, 5-6J x 3-32/^.. 



Differs from B. streptothrix (C. & E.) in its much smaller conidia 

 and more dwarfish growth. 

 Ovularia Vancouverise E. & E. 



On leaves of Vancouveria hexandr a, Caza-dero, Gala,., May, 1894 

 (W. C. Blasdale, No. 213). 



Spots amphigenous, angular, limited by the veinlets, 1-2 mm. 

 diam., dark brown above, paler below. Hyphse hypophyllous, fas- 

 ciculate, simple, 30-35x3//, appearing like a white, pruinose coating. 

 Conidia varying from acutely elliptical, to oblong, and from 10- 

 20x4-6//.. 



Not to be confounded with 0. Berheridis, Cke. 

 Ramularia Castilleiae E. & E. 



On leaves of Castilleia miniata, Mts. of Skamania Co., Wash., 

 Aug. 10, 1886 (W. N. Suksdorf, No. 288). 



On subferruginous, indefinite spots, 2-3 mm. diam. Hyphae 

 hyaline, simple, mostly thickened above, 15-25 x 3-4//, arising from 

 a tubercular base from which they project on all sides, forming light 

 flesh colored, sphperiseform tufts and bearing at their tips the narrow- 

 elliptical, oblong, or cylindrical, hyaline, continuous or uniseptate, 

 15-25 x 3-4/A conidia. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



The Raniularia occupies the central part of the spots and is sur- 

 rounded by subprominent, black, small, immature perithecia with 

 which it appears to be generically connected. 



Ramularia Psoraleae E. & E. 



On leaves of Psoralea macrostaehya, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Gala., 

 May, 1894 (W. C. Blasdale, No. 221). 



Spots small, round, pale rusty brown, 1-2 mm. diam. Hyphse 

 fasciculate, simple or sparingly branched above, hyaline, becoming 

 brownish, continuous or faintly 1-8-septate, subgeniculate above. 

 Conidia fusoid, hyaline, uniseptate and often slightly constricted, 

 rather abruptly narrowed at the ends, 12-30 x o-oJ//. 



Ramularia contexta E. & E. 



On living leaves of Menisperimim Canadense, Ann Arbor, Mich., 

 Aug. 1885 (Prof. V. M. Spalding). 



Hyph^e slender, hyaline, interwoven, so as to form a thin subsepa- 

 rable, web-like, layer, subangular in outline, 1-2 ram. across, dirty 

 white at first, becoming whiter and thicker. Fertile hyphse erect, 

 15-25 X 2-2J;/, continuous, mostly simple. Conidia clavate-fusoid, 

 hyaline, continuous at first, becoming 1-septate, 8—15 x 2-3,". 



Has something the aspect of Erineum. 



Helicoma monilipes Ell. & Johnson. 



On oak bark, Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 1893 (L. N. Johnson, No. 

 666). 



Ciespitose, in minute, punctiforra, brown tufts, about ,\ mm. diam., 

 appearing under the lens like minute flattened perithecia of about 

 the same color as the bark. Creeping hyphre nearly obsolete ; fertile 

 hyphjie cespitose, erect, nearly hyaline, irregularly or subdichotomously 

 branched above, closely septate and constricted at the septa so as to 

 appear submoniliform, 40-50 x 3-4,". Conidia terminal, or becom- 

 ing lateral by the prolongation of the hyphie, pale brown, closely 

 and permanently involute, forming a coil 12-15," diam., the cylinder 

 or thread which forms the coil being 3-4," thick and coiled about IJ 

 times. 



Chastopsis roseola E. & E. 



On oak bark, Ann Arbor, Mich., March, 1894 (L. N. Johnson, 

 No. 156). 



Mycelium inconspicuous or none. Fertile hyphjje simple, erect, 

 straight, septate, subulate, paler and attenuated above, 200—250," 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



long, browa. Brauches issuing from tlie middle portion of the 

 hyphffi, spreading, simple or 2-o-parted, hyaline at first, becoming 

 brown, 15-30 x 22//, faintly septate, bearing at their tips the cylin- 

 drical, hyaline, straight; obtuse, 3-4-nucleate, 8-10 x l2-2;/. conidia. 



The effused hyph?e appear like a thin, pale rose-colored pubes- 

 cence on the bark. 



Closely allied to C. stachyobola Sacc, but the color is different, the 

 branches often divided and the hyphse not perceptibly swollen at the 

 base. 



Stachylidium carioinum E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 335). 



Hyphse fasciculate, brown, septate, 600-700 x Si/s simple or 

 occasionally forked above, towards the top, with short-cylindrical, 

 hyaline branches opposite or in whorls of thi-ee, beai-ing at their tips 

 the elliptical, hyaline, 4-5 x 12-2// conidia, collected into a globose 

 head 10-12// diam. 



Coniosporium microsporum E. & E., n. sp. 



On dead herbaceous stems (Senecio triangularis), Medicine Bow 

 Kange, Colo., July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 23). 



Acervuli at first covered by the thin epidermis, soon erurapent, 1- 

 3 mm. diam., black, consisting of a mass of minute (3//), globose, 

 olive- brown, conidia. 



Torula (Tracliytora) sporodesmoides E. & E. 



On bark of dead limbs, Pasadena, Cala. , Jan. 1894 (Prof A. J. 

 McClatchie, No. 622). 



Pulvinate or subeffused, pulvinuli, hemispherical, sooty black, i- 

 f mm. diam. Creeping mycelium scanty, hyaline at first, sending 

 up short, fertile branches, from which the concatenate conidia are 

 formed by constriction. Conidia elliptical, 8-10 x 5-6/-, nniseptate 

 but not constricted, yellowish-brown at first, becoming nearly opake 

 and distinctly roughened. Often where 2 or more threads lie in con- 

 tact, the cells of the different threads become laterally connate, form- 

 ing irregularly shaped aggregations of conidia resembling Sporodes- 

 miiim. 



This differs from T. dimidiata Penz. in the nniseptate, rough 

 conidia. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Fusicladium Staticis E. & E. 



On living leaves of Sfatice Limonmrn, dwe May, N, J., Sept. 

 1894 (Commons, No. 2,565). 



Spots orbicular, 2-5 mm. diam., purplish at first, then rubigiuou& 

 with a purplish border, becoming paler in the center and finally sub- 

 deciduous. Hyphse epiphyllous, fiiseiculate, 40-60x4;/, brown, 

 septate, subgeniculate above. Conidia oblong with the ends obtusely 

 pointed, subolivaceous, 1- (exceptionally 2-) septate, 10-16x3-4//. 



The tufts of hyphse are crowded in the central part of the spots. 



Fusicladium Aplectri E. & E. 



On leaves of Aplectrnm hyemrile, Naaman's Creek, Del., Apr. 

 1894 (Commons, No. 2,408). 



Spots irregular, whitish, with a shaded, purple border, 1 (-m. 

 diam. Hyph;e fasciculate, olivaceous, simple, 2-3-septate, 65-75 x 

 5-6", mostly twisted or abruptly bent at the tips, olive-brown. 

 Conidia terminal, elliptical, greenish, granular, continuous at first, 

 becoming 1-septate, 12-15x6-7//. 



Cladosporium aterrimum E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Rockport, Ks., Nov. 1893 (Bartholomew, No. 

 1,256). 



At first densely tufted, tufts soon effused, forming an olive-black, 

 velvety stratum 1 or more cm. in extent. Fertile hyph?e slender, 

 sparingly septate, 100-150x22/', nearly straight, simple. Conidia 

 terminal, at first elliptical, 3-5//. long and continuous, then oblong- 

 cylindrical, uniseptate, 5-7x2^//, ends obtuse. Probably the subi- 

 culum of some Pyrenomycete. 



C. lignatile Schw. is said to have the hyphse very short ( "brevis- 

 simis" ). 



Cercospora (Cercosporella) albomaculans E. & E. 



On leaves of Brasslca eampestris, Berkeley, Cala., Feb. 1894 

 (W. C. Blasdale, No. 201). 



Spots suborbicular, white with a narrow, darker margin, ^.-1 cm. 

 diam. Hyphre amphigenous, tufted, short, 8-12x2;/, hyaline, con- 

 tinuous. Conidia cylindrical, hyaline, straight or slightly curved, 

 of about equal thickness throughout, 40-65 x2-2i/', becoming faintly 

 3-septate. The tufts are very minute. 



Distinguished from the other species on Cruciferce by its large 

 white spots and cylindrical conidia which resemble the sporules of 

 Septoria. 




1894.] XAT(n?AI. SCIENCES OK PHILADEJ^PIIIA. 379 



Cercospora (Cercosporella) Fraserae E. it E. 



Ou leaves of Frasera speciosa, mountains west of Bear Valley. 

 Colo., July, 1894 (Prof. C. S. Craudall, No. 65). 



Spots lar^e (A-l cm. ), pale brown with a narrow, black border. 

 Hyphse in scattered tufts, appearing under the lens like minute, pale 

 white granules, continuous, hyaline, 15-20x3//. Conidia gradually 

 attenuated above, hyaline, faintly 1-4-septate, 80-110 x 3-3^,". 



The general appearance is about the same as that of Marsonia 

 Frasercn E. & E. , but this is quite a diffei'cnt thing. 



Cercospora Borreriea E. & E. 



On leaves of Borreria micrcmtha, Biloxi, Miss., July, 1893 (Prof. 

 S. M. Tracy). 



Hypophyllous. Tufts effused, forming a thin, olivaceous coating. 

 Hypha? slender, undulate or crisped and geniculate, 100-120x3- 

 Sip., brown, nucleate and indistinctly and sparingly septate. Conidia 

 slender lanceolate, hyaline, 3-5-septate, 35—45 x 3—35//. 



Cercospora ribicola E. & E. 



Ou leaves of Ribes sanguineum, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 1893 (C. 

 V. Piper, No. 81). 



Spots numerous, subangular and partly limited by the veinlets, 

 definite but without any distinct border, red- rusty brown, 2-4 mm. 

 diam. Tufts mostly epiphyllous, sphseriseform, not eifused, appearing 

 like small, clustered, superficial perithecia. Hypha? densely fascicu- 

 late, pale brown, continuous, simple 25-35 x 35-4//. Conidia lanceo- 

 late, hyaline, nucleate and 1-3-septate, 35-80 x 3-4//. 



Quite different from C. marginalis Thum. Well characterized 

 by its red-brown spots and sphseriseform tufls of hyphse. 



Cercospora Cirsii E. & E. 



On Cnicus remotifolius , Skamania Co., Wash., Aug. 1886 (W. 

 N. Suksdorf, No. 291). 



Spots dark brown, paler below, suborbicular, 3-5 mm. diam. or 

 by confluence irregular and larger, often marginal, definite. 

 Hyphte epiphyllous, tufted, the small black tufts thickly covering the 

 spots, short, simple, pale brown, nearly entire, 15-30x3^-4-. 

 Conidia slender, hyaline, 4-6-septate, 50-80 x 3i//. 



Cercospora Baccharidis E. & E. 



On Baceharis Douglasii, Berkeley, Cala., June, 1894 (W. C. 

 Blasdale, No. 254). 




380 PROCEEDrNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Tufts effused, at lii-st ou irregular areas of the green leaf, partly 

 bounded by the veinlets, the part of the leaf occupied soon becoming 

 brown and dead. Hyphoe densely cespitose, simple, hyaline, mostly 

 continuous, 25-40 x 5//. Couidia cylindrical, hyaline, obtuse at the 

 ends, l-3-3eptate, often constricted at the septa. The tufts of 

 hyphse are of a pale rose color, nearly white and are found on both 

 sides of the leaf 



Cercospora melanochasta E. & E. 



On leaves of Celastrus scandens, Louisville, Kansas, Oct. 1893 

 (E. Bartholomew, No. 1,210). 



Spots amphigenous, slaty black, with the center whitish and the 

 margin shading off into rusty brown, suborbicular, ^-1 cm. diam. 

 Hyphne dark brown, septate, subundulate above, 40-60x3^-4//, 

 forming dense sphseriseform, tobacco-brown tufts on the whitish 

 center of the spots on both sides of the leaf. Conidia clavate- cylin- 

 drical, brown, 3-5-8eptate, 40-70 x 4-5//. The dark part of the 

 spots, especially below is covered with numerous, black, sterile 

 perithecia. 



Cercospora columnare E. & E. 



On dried up leaves of Phaseolus (cult.), Newfield, N. J., Sept. 

 1894. 



Am|)higeuous but mostly hypophyllous. Hyphse erect, fascicu- 

 late, forming a compact bundle or tuft like Isariopsis, 150-230 x 4//, 

 brown, sparingly septate. Conidia oblong-cylindrical, 1-5-septate, 

 not constricted, brownish, mostly a little curved, 40-60 x 5-6//. 



C. Phaseoloruiii Cke. is said to have the hyphge short (" abbre- 

 viatis " ) which can hardly apply to this. 



Cercospora (Enotherse E. & E. 



On leaves of GEnothera hiemm, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Oct. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 599). 



Spots irregular, mostly elongated, grayish-brown, subangular, 3- 

 5 x 2-3 mm. , subconfluent. HyphtTe amphigenous, subhyaline, con- 

 tinuous or faintly 1-2-septate, 15-20 x 3/-, in minute scattered tufts, 

 few in a tuft, spreading, subundulate. Conidia linear or only 

 slightly attenuated above, smoky-hyaline, nucleate and faintly 3-5- 

 or more-septate, 25-80 x 2-2J/'., straight or only slightly curved. 



Cercospora Merrowi E. & E. 



On Isopynmi hiteniatum, Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 1893 (Harriet 

 L. Merrow). 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. '^81 



Hypophyllous, on dead blackened parts of the leaves. Hyphte 

 loosely tufted, subeffused, simple, clavate, continuous, 15—30 x 4", 

 yellowish to the naked eye, nearly hyaline under the microscope. 

 Conidia, 1-3- septate, hyaline, 15-60 x 4—6;j. 



The shorter ones are cylindrical and mostly 1-septate, and resemble 

 the conidia of Ramularia Actaxi', but the longer ones are narrowed 

 above and 3- (or more- ) ? septate. 



Cercospora Briareus E. & E. 



On leaves of Acerates viridifiora, near Elkton, Md., Aug. 1894 

 (Commons, No. 2,537). 



Spots amphigenous, dull livid-purple, small, subelongated, 1-3 x 1 

 mm., subindefinite or partly limited by the veinlets. Hyphae am- 

 phigenous, loosely tufted, spreading, subundulate, simple, equal, 

 olive-brown, continuous or 1-3-septate, obtuse, 35-45 x 5-6;/. 

 Conidia slender, 40-80 x 32-4^//., 6-8-septate, nearly straight, 

 slightly brownish. 



The spots, especially on the under side of the leaf are not per- 

 ceptible; the hyphiB spreading over green areas of the leaf enclosed 

 by the veinlets. 

 Heterosporium eaiilicolum E. & E. 



On dead stems of Rumex occidentalis, North Park, Colo., July, 

 1894 (Prof. C. S. Crandall, No. 72). 



Tufts effused. Hypha? cespitose, stout, olive-brown (under the 

 microscope), septate, torulose, subgeniculate above, 80-110x4-5//. 

 Conidia elliptical or oblong, pale yellowish- brown, 1-3-septate, 12- 

 26 (mostly about 15) x 7-1 Ov, minutely echinulate-roughened. 

 Appears like a coarse, black pubescence on the stems. 



Heterosporium sphseriseforme E. & E. 



On dead stems of Eriogomm, Fort Collins, Colo. (C. F. Baker, 

 No. 270). 



Hypha? as in H. caulicolum E. & E. but not as rigid and collected 

 in dense, scattered, olivaceous, sphserioeform, tufts i-l mm. diain., 

 resembling a Fuccinia or Sphceria. Conidia elliptical or oblong, 

 1_4. f mostly 1-2- ) septate, 12-30 x 8-12//, minutely echinulate- 

 roughened, pale yellow-brown. 



Heterosporium Eucalypti E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Eucalyptus, California, Nov. 1893 (A. J. 

 McClatchie, No. 542). 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Hypophyllous, forming small (1—2 mm. ), olive-black, orbicular 

 patches scattered over the lower side of the leaf. Hyphiv? subfascicu- 

 late-etfused, pale yellowish- browu, coutinuous or sparingly septate, 

 70-80 X 4—5:j., geniculate-subimdulate, slightly swollen at the tips. 

 Conidia oblong-elliptical, 1-2-septate, pale yellowish, echiuulate, 15- 

 27 X 10-12//. 



Heterosporium oladosporioides E. & E. 



On brown paper exposed by the roadside, Ann Arbor, Mich., 

 May, 1894 (L. N. Johnson, No. 1,599). 



Maculiform. Hypha; erect, subfasciculate, brown, 90-110x4- 

 5 ', septate, subundulate or subnodulose above. Conidia terminal, 

 hyaline and continuous at first, then pale brown and minutely 

 echiuulate, 1-2-septate, 10-16 x 5-7// not constricted. 



The hyphaj form small black scattered patches about 2 mm. diam. 



Heterosporium Triliii E. & E. 



On leaves (partly dead) of Trillium ovatum, Latah Co., Idaho, 

 July, 1893 (C. V. Piper, No. 128). 



Spots at first suborbicular, gray with a whitish margin, soon con- 

 fluent, overrunning and killing the leaves, which then become rusty 

 brown. Hyphty fasciculate, short, 30-50 x 5-6//, variously toothed 

 and shouldered above and more or less crooked, sparingly septate. 

 Conidia oblong-cylindrical, 12-30 x 5-8//, 1-3-septate, minutely 

 echiuulate, yellow-brown. 



Maorosporium hybridum E. & E. 



On bark of decaying Sambucus glauca, Pullman, Wash., Oct. 

 1893 (C. V. Pipe.r, No. 151). 



Forming black, subelongated patches or irregularly scattered. 

 Hyphte cespitose, olive-brown, coarse, 100-110 x 6-7/', geniculate 

 and subtorulose above, finally closely septate. Conidia variable; 

 at first oblong-elliptical and mostly uniseptate, 8-15 x 5-7//, pale 

 yellowish- brown, then oblong, 2-3-septate and constricted, granular, 

 12-25 X 8-12//. Other conidia are globose, 12—15;/, sarcinuliforra, 

 with two septa crossing each other at right angles, others again 

 broad-clavate, 5— 9-septate and muriforra, 50-70 x 12-15//. 



The members of this genus are so variable that we have ventured 

 to describe onl}'^ forms with marked and recognizable characters. 



Maorosporium iridicolum E. & E. 



On leaves of Iris Missouriensis, Moscow, Idaho, May, 1894 

 ( Prof L. F. Henderson, No. 2,640). 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHIIiADELPHlA. 388 



Hyphaj short, tufted, obovate-obloug, contiauous, 12-15 x 5-6//, 

 pale yellowish. Conidia clavate, 5-10-septate and muriform, 40- 

 120 X 20-25//, including the stout, cylindrical, persistent stipe. It 

 is possible that what we have taken for hyphge are tufts of young 

 conidia ; if so, the conidia ai"e sessile. This is quite distinct from 

 3Iarrosporium Iridis C. & E. 



The tufts are at first scattered and distinct but finally confluent, 

 forfiiiug pulverulent black patches consisting entirely of the free 

 conidia. 



Macrosporium Pelargonii E. & E. 



On leaves of Pelargonium (cult), Pasadena, Gala., Feb. 1894 

 (Prof. A. J. McClatchie). 



Spots orbicular, 1-3 mm. diam. , greenish at first, then rusty brown, 

 with a narrow, raised margin causing them to appear discoid. 

 HyphiB amphigeuous but more abuudant above, eff'used or sparingly 

 fasciculate, yellow- brown, erect, 2-3-septate, swollen at the tips, 25- 

 30 X 5-6'/, bearing' the terminal, obovate, or subquadrate, 3-septate, 

 and muriform, 20-30 x 18-22//. conidia, which are mostly constricted 

 at the middle septum and have no pedicel. 



Macrosporium tabacinum E. & E. 



On leaves of tobacco, North Carolina, Oct. 1891 (Prof. Gerald 

 McCarthy), INIissouri (Miss Clendinin). 



Spots amphigenous, numerous, small, irregular or suborbicular, 

 definite, thin, white, with a narrow, raised margin, 1-3 mm. diam. 

 Hyphpe amphigenous, fasciculate, tufts eff"used, septate, geniculate 

 above, ferruginous-brown, 30-50 x 3-4//, crooked and spreading. 

 Conidia obovate-clavate, stipitate, 3-9-septate and muriformly 

 divided, 50-90 x .0-15/'. The smaller conidia are often without 

 any stipe, while the larger ones have a persistent stipe from 8-25// 

 long. 



This is closely allied to 31. candatum C. & E. It is called by the 

 planters "white speck," and with Phyllosticta tabaci Pass, is very 

 injurious to the plants. 



Macrosporium olivaceum E. & E. 



Parasitic on Sphcvro-psis Asimince E. & E., on dead limbs of 

 Admina triloba, Nuttallburg, West Va., March, 1894 (L. W. 

 Nuttall, No. 388). 



Forms a light olive, veliitinous coat over the pustules of the 




384 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. [1894. 



SpJurropsis. Hyphse tufted, yellowish- brown (under the microscope), 

 septate, erect, nearly straight or subundulate, 80-100 x 4-5//. 

 Conidia obovate or obpiriforra, 3-5-septate and muriform, brown, 

 24—38 X 15-20//, terminal, sessile. Conidia also occur subcubical or 

 subglobose, 15-20// diara. with 2-septa crossing each other at right 

 angles. 



Sporodesmium fructigenum E. & E. 



On decaying apples. Las Cruces, New Mexico, Oct. 1893 (E. W. 

 Wooton). 



Appears like a thin, dark colored, velvety coating, appearing first 

 around the stem end but finally spreading over the greater part of 

 the apple Conidia subglobose or elliptical, stipitate, yellowish and 

 uniseptate at first, finally nearly opake and muriform, 12-26/'. in 

 the longer diameter. 



The conidia have a berry- like structure like that of S. Rauii E. 

 & H. or S. moriforme Pk. The pedicels, which are 12-15 x S/Jt are 

 deciduous. 



Sporodesmium subcupulatum E. & E. 



On dead Sambucus melanocarpa, Cameron Pass, Colorado, July, 

 1894 (C. F. Baker, No. 236, partly). 



At first tuberculiform, minute, i—k mm. diam. , erumpent and 

 surrounded by the ruptured epidermis, becoming concave and often 

 oblong 1-2 mm. long, o-| mm. wide, slaty black; conidia olivaceous, 

 muriform, subglobose, 10-15// diam., or subelliptical or clavate- ob- 

 long, 20-30 X 10-12//, sessile or with a short, thick pedicel. In the 

 concave stage the acervuli and conidia are paler. 



Sporodesmium tuberouliforme E. & E., n. sp. 



On dead stems of Sambucus racemosa, near Rabbit Ear Pass, N. 

 W. Colo., alt. 10,000 ft., July, 1894 (Prof C. S. Crandall, No. 



15). 



Sporodochia tuberculiform, black, inside and out, about 1 mm. 

 diam., flattened above. Conidia irregular in shape and variable in 

 size, subcubical, subglobose, subelliptical, consisting of 2-20 sub- 

 globose cells variously conglomerated so as to form the conidia 8-20// 

 diam. 



The tubercular mass consists almost entirely of the compacted 

 conidia which are more perfectly developed in the superficial layer. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Podosporiella E. & E., n. gen. of Phczostilbece PhragmosporcB . 



Stroma cellular, soft, not carbonaceous, short-cylindrical. Hyphse 

 short, simple, arising from all parts of the stroma. Conidia terminal, 

 oblong or cylindrical, brown, 2- or more-septate. 



Differs from Podosporiuvi in its simple, cellular stroma (stipe). 



Podosporiella humilis E. & E. 



On leaves of Garrya Veitchii, Echo Mt., Cala., July, 1894 

 (Prof. A. J. McClatchie, No. 736). 



Spots orbicular, brown, with a definite, dark margin 2-4 ram. 

 diam. Stroraata hypophyllous, scattered on the spots, black, short- 

 cylindrical, or conic-cylindrical, about 1 mm. high and 2 mm. thick, 

 of membrauaceo- cellular structure. Hyphje spreading on all sides 

 from the stroma, pale brown, simple, continuous, 15-20x4—5/-'., 

 bearing the terminal, solitary, oblong-cylindrical, pale-brown, uni- 

 septate at first, then 2-4- septate, 15-27 x 6-7,a conidia. 



Illosporium csespitosum E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. 

 Nuttall, No. 231). 



Sporodochia globose, 100-110/'. diam., cespitose, forming tufts 

 about 1 mm. diam. Hyphoe 6-8// thick, branched, the branches 

 curved or tortuous. Conidia globose or ovate 6-12/7. diam. 



Differs from I. coccinellum Cke. in its color, and larger, cespitose 

 sporodochia. 



Illosporium album E. & E. 



On cypress bark, Louisiana (Langlois, No. 284). 



Sporodochia gregarious, milk-white, ovate, 140-160x100-110/'. 

 Hyphte imperfectly defined, free and mostly curved above, united 

 below into a coarsely cellular, mass. Conidia peripherical, sub- 

 globose, 8-10// diam. 



Differs from I. palUdxim Cooke, in its smaller sporodochia, imper- 

 fectly defined hyph?e, and milk-white color. 



Trichaeg'um nodulosum E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Carex Fraseri, Nuttallburg, West Va. , Feb. 



1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 333). 



Erumpent, tufted, becoming subeffused, black, tufts gregarious 

 forming subvelutinous patches 2-4 mm. across, or when standing 

 singly, the hyphje and conidia forming a compact mass, 5-I mm. 

 diam., and resembling somewhat the sorus of a Puecinia. Hyphse 

 simple, sparingly fasciculate, brown, septate, often swollen at the 

 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



septa, about 4;/ thick and 200-300;/ long. Conidia near the base of 

 the hyph?c, at first elliptical, yellowish-hyaline, iiniseptate 8-10x6- 

 1 II-, soon becoming 4-6-septate, nuirif'orni and opake, 10-25//. diam., 

 subglobose, obovate, or elliptical. 



Pilacre gracilipes E. & E. 



On rotten wood, Nuttallburg, West Va., Dec. 1893 (L. W. 

 Nuttall, No. 274). 



Scattered, stem slender, white-pruinose, 3 mm. long, \-i mm. 

 thick. Head subhemispherical, olivaceous, about 1 mm. diam. 

 Fertile hyphae hyaline, dichotomously branched, 2-lhiJ. thick, bear- 

 ing the conidia laterally. Conidia globose or subglobose, yellow- 

 brown under the microscope, 4-5j//. diam. 



Smaller and of a more slender growth than P. Petersli B. & C. 



Tubercularia hamata E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Celtis occidentalis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 313). 



Depressed-hemispherical, umbonate, soon becoming black, 2-14 

 mm. diam. Conidia oblong, slightly curved, hyaline, 5-8 x 12-2;/, 

 on slender, simple sporophores 30-40;/. long, incurved or involute at 

 the tips. 



Hymenula cerealis E. & E. 



On wheat straw, Nuttallburg, West Va., May, 1894 (L. W. 

 Nuttall, No. 495). 



Sporodochia gelatinous, orbicular, yellowish- amber color, becom- 

 ing darker, at first subpulvinate, becoming depressed or flattened, 

 *-f mm. diam. Basidia slender, 25-30x11;/, simple or oftener 

 branched, the branches erect. Conidia hyaline, oblong, minute, 3- 

 4x1-11;/.. 



Microcera erumpens E. & E. 



On dead limbs of Tsuga Canadensis, Nuttallburg, West Va., Feb. 

 1894 (L. W. Nuttall, No. 371). 



Sporodochia depressed- globose, 2 mm. diam., at first covered by 

 the epidermis, soon exposed and bare, orange-red, at length dis- 

 appearing and leaving cup-shaped cavities in the bark. Conidia 

 falcate, nucleate and finally 3- or more- septate, 75-83 x 3-4;/., 

 hyaline, borne on short (20-35;/) sporophores which are more or 

 less branched above. 



Differs from M. coccophila Desm. in the shape of the sporodochia 

 and their subcuticular origin. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



NOTES ON THE MAMMALS OF MONROE AND PIKE COUNTIES, 



PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY SAMUEL N, RHOADS. 



We have much to learn respecting the man^mal fauna of the most 

 densely populated and longest settled districts of the United States. 

 To no region is this remark more applicable than the States of Penn- 

 sylvania and New Jersey. In the American Naturalist for January, 

 1893, Mr. Witmer Stone and myself recorded the capture of two 

 new species belonging to genera hitherto unknown to the fauna of 

 New Jersey, and later Mr. Stone described a Cave Rat, belonging 

 to the genus Neotoma, from South Mountain, Pennsylvania, which is 

 the first notice we have of the present existence of that genus in the 

 State. 



A recent visit to the wilder portions of northeastern Pennsylvania 

 in the interests of natural history enables me to contribute the fol- 

 lowing notes to our knowledge of the mammals of the region. One 

 week in September was spent at the farm of Mr. Chas. Yaggie, 

 (1,000 ft. alt.), on the west bank of Big Bushkill Creek, in Monroe 

 County, at a point seven miles east of Cresco, where the creek enters 

 the southwestern corner of Pike County. Another week in October 

 was occupied in the vicinity of Dingman's Ferry, Pike County, 

 and for three days I was located at Porter's Lake (1,200 feet alt.), in 

 the same county. Systematic trapping of the smaller mammalia was 

 kept up during my stay at all these localities. On the results of 

 this work and of my inquiries among the woodsmen and older 

 residents of the places visited, the following notes are based. To 

 Dr. Philip Fulmer, of Dingman's Ferry, and Mr. Harvey Eilen- 

 berger, of East Stroudsburg, the latter a veteran deer-hunter, whom 

 I had the pleasure of meeting at Porter's Lake, I am chiefly indebted 

 for outside information. The reliability of the statements of these 

 gentlemen on such subjects is unquestionable. 



The area covered by my investigations is mainly included in the 

 eastern extension of the Pocono plateau, the average elevation of 

 which, at the points visited, is from 1,000 to 1,500 feet. The greatest 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



elevatiou attained was the summit of High Knob, 2,010 feet above the 

 sea; the lowest was at Dingman's Ferry (350 feet), on the Delaware 

 River. The greater part of Porter and Delaware townships have 

 not only been long denuded of their original forests of oak, pine, and 

 hemlock, but have of late years been frequently swept with fire. 

 This fact, combined with the stony character of the soil, gives the 

 country a desolate appearance, and has, undoubtedly, brought about 

 marked changes in the character of its fauna and flora since the ad- 

 vent of the white mail. At the present time it is diflScult to find, for 

 hundreds of square miles so much as an acre of mature evergreen 

 timber that does not show the ravages of fire and axe. In some 

 places the presence of a watercourse or swamp has retarded these 

 influences and we find a strip of oaks, chestnuts, and pines of com- 

 paratively recent growth to relieve the monotony of vast stretches 

 of scrub oak and bushes. Both fauna and flora combine in an in- 

 teresting manner the features of the Alleghunian, Canadian, and 

 Carolinian life- regions. 



The following is a list, with annotations, of those species observed 

 by the writer or reported on by the gentlemen above mentioned: — 



1. Didelphys marsupialis virginiana (Kerr). Virgiuian Opossum. 



The rare occurrence of this Carolinian species in the fauna of the 

 Pocono plateau of Pike and Monroe counties, even up to an eleva- 

 tion of 1,500 feet is a fact of interest. Specimens have been taken 

 at Porter's Lake. At Dingman's Ferry they are less rare. 



2, Cariacus virginianus (Bodd.). Virginia Deer. 



A buck was killed at Schauff''s Pond the first week in October. 

 In spite of the immense range and the sparsely populated condition of 

 the country, the deer are becoming very scarce. Mr. Eilenberger 

 attributes this to the continual destruction of deer by the natives 

 throughout the year, and to the forest fires, which often overtake the 

 newly- born fawns, and in many ways so worry the older deer that 

 they leave the county. 



Last year the county newspaper at Milford published its annual 

 authenticated list of deer killed in Pike County during the game 

 season of 1893. They numbered 140. 



Mr. Eilenberger thinks a close season of three years and a law to 

 prevent the export of deer for sale would quickly and permanently 

 restock the Pocono wilderness with this noble animal. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



3. Cervus americanus (Erxl.). Wapiti. 



The " Elk " was probably never as numerous in this region as in 

 the central Alleghany Mountains, those individuals taken in former 

 days being considered by the natives as stragglers from the main 

 body. The last capture in Pike County was probably not later than 

 1840 or 1845. 



Remains of the Bison and Caribou found in Hartman's Cave near 

 Stroudsburg, have been described and figured by Dr. Jos. Leidy in 

 the Penua. Geological Report for 1887. 



It is very improbable that either species co-existed in this part of 

 Pennsylvania, with Man. 



4. Sciurus carolinensis pennsylvanicus (Ord). Northern Gray Squirrel. 

 Very few were seen. They are said to be abuudant in certain 



localities of exceptional food supply. The hunters frequently shoot 

 the melanistic form, which is the original variety on which George 

 Ord based his specific name for the "Small Black Squirrel" of 

 Guthrie's Geography, in 1815. 



5. Sciurus hudsonicus (Erxleben). Eed Squirrel, Chickaree. 



Abundant as the sparsely wooded character of the country will 

 permit. 



6. Sciuropterus volans (L.) Jordan^ Flying Squirrel. 



No specimens of this animal were seen. They are reported as 

 numerous, and more frequently found in nests built among the 

 branches of a pine than in hollow trees. It is very probable that 

 this species on the Pocono mountain is nearer to the typical Virginian 

 form than to sabrimis of the Canadian fauna, as in the case of 

 Tamias striatus and its subspecies T. s. lysteri. 



7. Tamias striatus (L.). Chipmunk. 



In the more mountainous districts the chipmunk is by far the most 

 ubiquitous mammal of its class, the more favorable situations being 

 so thickly tenanted by them as to suggest the Spermophile colonies of 

 the West. They showed no disposition to hibernate up to the last 

 day of my stay (October 14th), though the nights were often frosty. 



Pocono chipmunks are referable to typical striatus rather than to 

 the Canadian variety, T. s. lysteri, which is found in the northwestern 

 parts of Pennsylvania. 



1 See " Manual of the Vertebrates," 1888, p. 324 (foot-note). 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



8. Castor fiber canadensis (Kuhl). American Beaver. 



The older residents concur in the opinion that the beaver was ex- 

 terminated nearly fifty years ago in northwestern Pennsylvania. 

 Their dams and meadows are still pointed out in numerous places 

 along the Bushkill and Diugman's creeks. 



9. Mus rattus L. Black Rat. 



This least offensive member of the Old World Murid?e remains 

 in undisputed possession of the barns and outhouses of the more 

 remote districts, but along the Delaware valley it has given place 

 to the following: — 



10. Mus decumanus Pallas. Norway Eat. 



As in other places where this pest has foothold, the supply far 

 exceeds the demand. 



11. Mus musculus L. House Mouse. 

 Well represented. 



12. Neotoma magister Baird. Alleghany Cave Rat. 



Remains of this animal, both fossilized and those apparently 

 quite recent, were taken, in 1880, from Hartman's Cave in Monroe 

 County, by Mr. T. D. Paret, of Stroudsburg. 



I have as yet been unable to determine whether this interesting- 

 animal is still living in that county or in Pike county. The 

 evidence from every source is negative, and this after the most dili- 

 gent inquiry. 



I personally explored several ledges, notably those of High Knob 

 and the cliffs along the Delaware south of Milford, without finding 

 a trace of their existence. It is not impossible, however, that the 

 recent habitat of this species may be traced, by isolated localities 

 along the Blue Ridge from South Mountain to the Hudson River 

 Highlands. Dr. C. H. Merriam, in a recent communication, states 

 that he believes the specimens of Neotoma, taken many years ago on 

 the Hudson near Rockland, New York, to be of this species. 



13. Peromyscus amerioanus (Kerr) Thomas.^ White-footed Mouse. 

 Numerous specimens of all ages, taken in three distinctly separated 



localities, strongly indicate a local variety of this susceptible species, 

 which apparently forms a connecting link between typical Pennsyl- 



* See Ann. & Mag. N. H., Nov. 1894, p. 364. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



vauia aviericanns aud New England examples of S. a. canadensis. 

 Their longer tails and lack of a distinct dorsal stripe indicate this. 



The Pocono mice are of a more uniform and much duller brown 

 on the upper parts than soutt Pennsylvania specimens, and in old in- 

 dividuals there is no trace of the dusky dorsal stripe which is so 

 pronounced in specimens from New Jersey and New England. 

 Specimens from Pike County match one in the collection from Lome 

 Park, Ontario, and three from Clinton County, Pennsylvania. 



14. Fiber zibethicus L. Muskrat. 

 Not abundant. 



15. Arvicola pennsylvanicus (Ord). Common Meadow Mouse. 

 Abundant, and constant to its typical characters in all situations. 



16. Arvicola pinetorum (LeConte). Pine Mouse. 



A specimen taken at Yaggie's farm, and another at Porter's Lake 

 attest the semiboreal range of this southern species. 



17. Evotomys gapperi (Vigors). Eed-backed Mouse. 



A rather rare species. Four captures were made at Yaggie's in 

 the more heavily timbered swamps. This animal does not appear to 

 confine its operations to runways or underground as does the true 

 Arvicola, but forages about like Sitomi/s in more open situations at 

 the surface. 



I took none at Dingman's Ferry, and am of the opinion they are 

 not found much below an altitude of 1,000 feet in Pike County. 



18. Synaptomys cooperi Baird. Cooper's Lemming Mouse. 



One of these highly interesting rodents was captured in a meadow 

 bordering the Bushkill, on Yaggie's farm. It was taken in a 

 "cyclone trap," set in the runways of Arvicola pennsylvanicus, near 

 the edge of a dry swamp. A specimen of the latter species was 

 subsequently taken in the same spot. This is the first authenticated 

 record for Pennsylvania of Cooper's mouse, though it is not improb- 

 able that the tyge was taken within fifty miles of this place, either on 

 that or the New Jersey side of the Delaware. 



This, together with recent captures in New England and eastern 

 Canada, may now be considered sufficient to fix the type habitat of 

 Cooper's mouse east of the Alleghany Mountains, rather than west 

 of them as was once considered possible, owing to the total lack of 

 recorded eastern specimens. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



In a recent paper, Mr. Outram Bangs^ has endeavored to show 

 that Synaptomys stonei described by me from southern New Jersey 

 is a synonym of S. cooperi. 



A comparison of the three specimens of stonei, taken at May's 

 Landing, with individuals taken in New England by Mr. Bangs at 

 the same season of year, show no cranial differences of value. In 

 stonei, however, there is a decided difference in the darker colors of 

 the pelage as contrasted with the New England skins and with the 

 skin from Pike County. This is manifested in the blackish-brown of 

 the back and upper head, the sooty feet and tail, and the lead- colored 

 lower parts of stonei, contrasted with the gray-brown upper parts, 

 light-brown feet and tail, and hoary under parts of the more northern 

 specimens which, as I had previously inferred, were in all prob- 

 ability taken nearest the type locality of cooperi. In these particulars 

 there is a striking correlation with the color differences pointed out 

 by Mr. Stone for his subspecies of Evotomys gajjperi,* taken in the 

 same bog which furnished the types of S. stonei. On these grounds, 

 taking for granted that S. cooperi is typified by the form found east 

 of the Alleghany Mountains, I would now refer to the southern New 

 Jersey lemming mouse as Sy7iapto7nys cooperi stonei. 



My original description of stonei was drawn up from a comparison 

 with two specimens from Ohio, and, so far as it went, was apparently 

 a sufficient reason for specific separation. It is not impossible that 

 a full series of western specimens will yet indicate the propriety of 

 further division. 



19. Zapus hudsonius (Zlmm.)- Meadow Jumping Mouse. 



20. Zapus insignis Miller. Woodlaud Jumping Mouse. 



I was surprised to neither see nor capture any of these mice during 

 my stay. They had evidently just gone into their winter trance, and 

 the loveliest Indian summer weather failed to rouse them. This is 

 an interesting fact, as only a few days before my stay they had been 

 seen by "mine host," and one of the woodland species (which I was 

 surprised to find he recognized as different from the meadow jumping 

 mouse) was killed by him as it swam across the Bushkill. Mr. 

 Shryock took a specimen of insignis on Pocono Mountain in 1893. 



3 Proc. Biol. Soc, Washn.. 1894. 

 * Amer. Naturalist, Jan. 1893. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 393 



21. Erethizon dorsatus (L. ). Canada Porcupine. 



This is another boreal species whose presence on the Pocono plateau 

 has always been rather precarious, and, with the vanishing forest 

 areas, it has become so rare' that it is believed by many hunters to 

 be exterminated. The most active of these gentlemen have not seen 

 any "for several years." 



22. Lepus americanus Erxl. Varying Hare. 



Not uncommon in the higher mountain swamps. 



23. Lspus sylvaticus Bachm. Rabbit. 

 Normally abundant in all situations. 



24. Fells concolor L. Puma, Panther. 



A panther, I am assured by Mr. Eilenberger, has not been killed 

 in Pike County for thirty years, all reports to the contrary notw'ith- 

 standing. From conversation with several hunters it appears that 

 the name "catamount" in this region is applied to any animal, not 

 distinctly seen, which is larger than a wild-cat and has a longer tail, 

 but is smaller than a panther ! When a very large or abnormally 

 colored wild-cat is trapped, it also may receive this higher sounding 

 title. The yell of a wild-cat is a fruitful source of "catamount" 

 stories, the horror of such an experience making the use of the com- 

 moner name a totally inadequate expression. 



25. Lynx canadensis (Desm.). Canada Lynx. 



Many residents near Porter's Lake assured me that this species is 

 occasionally trapped in that vicinity. The occurrence of the lynx in 

 these parts is not attested by any reliable records known to me. 



26. Lynx rufus fGuld.). Wild-cat. 



Many pelts of this destructive animal are annually taken in both 

 counties. 



27. Canis lupus nubilus (Say). American Gray Wolf. 



I can get no information as to the date of the disappearance of the 

 timber wolf from this part of the State. Conservative residents set 

 it as nearly forty years ago, but it is probable they existed to a much 

 later date. 



28. Vulpes vulpes pensylvanicus (Bodd.). American Eed Fox. 

 An abundant resident. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



29. Urocyon cinereo-argenteus (Miill.). Gray Fox. 

 Occasionally taken by hunters. 



30. TJrsus americanus Pallas. American Black Bear. 



Rarely killed, but evidences of their existence are frequently seen 

 in the mountains. They hibernate in severe winters. 



31. Putorius erminea (L. ). Weasel, Ermine. 



Specimens of this weasel were examined in the collection of Mr. 

 Justin Nilis, of Edgemere, Pike Co. Two of them were in the white 

 pelage. 



32. Lutreola vison Schreber. Mink. 

 Abundant. 



33. Mustela americana Turton. Pine Marten. 



I could hear of no specimens of this former resident having been 

 captured for many years. Of the Pekan, 31. j)ennanti, none of the 

 inhabitants had any knowledge. 



34. Lutra hudsonica Lacep. American Otter. 



This fisherman is sufficiently numerous to be a nuisance to the 

 owners of game preserves along the Bushkill. I found one in a 

 trap on the banks of that stream near Yaggie's farm. They are 

 frequently seen in Porter's Lake, and Mr. Van Vliet of that place 

 states that they sometimes devour mussels in the same manner as the 

 muskrat. 



35. Mephitis mepMtica (Sliaw). Common Skunk. 



Normally abundant. A visit was paid to the farm near Shawnee, 

 in Monroe County, where these animals are being bred for their furs. 

 Unfortunately no one was at home at the time, and I was unable to 

 secure any data respecting the success of this experiment. A neigh- 

 bor stated that the venture was not profitable and on the decline. 



36. Procyon lotor (L.). Eiiccoon. 

 Stated to be very abundant. 



37. T Sorex forsteri Rich. Forster's Shrew. 



I refer a small, brown shrew, taken in Arvicola runways, in a 

 meadow near woodland, to this species, with some doubt. In its 

 small size and the character of its coloration it agrees well with 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Richardson's description. It was taken on the banks of the Bush- 

 kill where it crosses the southwestern corner of Pike County. It is 

 similar to several specimens taken in Maine and central Quebec. * 



38. TSorex . 



Four specimens of a rather large, bluish-gray shrew answering 

 Baird's description of *S'. forsteri, one taken at Yaggie's and three on 

 Dingraan's Creek, are very distinct from the preceding species in 

 size, color, and habits. The S. forsteri of Baird I am convinced is 

 not the same as the S. forsteri of Richardson. It is very probable 

 that the four specimens in question are identical with the animal 

 described by Baird as forsteri What name, among the numerous 

 existing ones, should be given this bluish-gray shrew with light 

 colored feet and chin and brownish neck, forearm, chest, and vent, 

 and bicolored tail, I am at a loss to know. 



39. Sorex (Neosorex) albibarbis (Cope). Eastern marsli Shrew. 



It is with no small satisfaction that I announce the discovery of a 

 member of this subgenus in Pennsylvania. One specimen was taken 

 along the banks of a rocky stream flowing into the Big Bushkill, in 

 Monroe County. It is the most southerly record for the subgenus, 

 the previous record being from Warwick, INIassachusetts. After 

 going over the ground somewhat, it appears proper to endorse the 

 verification of Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr., in the Proceedings of the Bos- 

 ton Society of Natural History, in giving this shrew the name ap- 

 plied to New England examples by Prof. Cope in 1863. Specimens 

 from Lac Aux Sables, Quebec, and from Lincoln, Maine, agree 

 better, in the brownish cast of lower parts, with Prof. Cope's 

 diagnosis of albibarbis, as contrasted with the "ash-colored" belly of 

 S. paliistris given by Richardson in the Fauna Boreali Americana. 



In the Pike County specimen, though identical in dentition and 

 proportionate measurements with my Canadian specimens, the colors 

 are much as in Richardson's diagnosis of paliistris, showing that the 

 brown belly character is inconstant in eastern specimens. It is 

 probable, however, that the exceptions are in immature pelage. For 

 a full discussion of these questions, see paper by Mr. G. S. IVIiller, 

 Jr., in the Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History, 

 Vol. XXVL 



5 Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr., has since identified these shrews to be 5. personatus 

 G. St. Hilaire. 




396 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



40. Blarina talpoides (Gapper). Mole Shrew. 



Excessively abundant in all sorts of situations, from wettest low- 

 lands to barren mountain tops. 



Owing to its numbers and carnivorous appetite this shrew is a 

 great nuisance to the mouse trapper. 



41. Scalops aquaticus (L.). Common Mole. 

 Rare among the mountains. 



42. Condylura cristata (L.). Star-Nosed Mole. 



Mr. Chas. Yaggie caught a specimen on his farm. 



43. Adelonycteris fuscus (Beauv.). Carolina Bat. 



44. Atalapha borealis (Miill.). Red Bat. 



45. Vespertilio gryphus Fr. Cuvier. Little Brown Bat. 



Several bats were observed, most, if not all, of which, are probably 

 referable to these species. 



I could find no one acquainted with a large bat which would be 

 referable to the Hoary Bat, Atalapha cinerea. 




1894,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIliADELPHIA. 397 



A STUDY OF THE SYSTEMATIC AND GEOGEAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 

 OF THE DECAPOD FAMILY ATYID^ Kingsley. 



BY ARNOLD E. ORTMANN. 



In the following paper I propose to give a revision of the family 

 Atyidce with especial reference to its geographical distribution. For 

 a true representation of the geographical range of a group of animals 

 it is necessary to examine the details of the distribution of all the 

 known species, as well as to define the systematic limits of each. 

 Every error in determining a species may be followed by great 

 confusion difficult to solve by subsequent investigation. In revising 

 the known genera and species it is necessary to state the relations 

 and affinities to each other in order to get an idea of the peculiarities 

 of the geographical distribution and to find out their cause. 



The family Atyidce, although a small one, comprises a consider- 

 able number of ill-defined species and genera, since most authors in 

 creating such did not investigate their relations to those already 

 known. In the typical genus Atya there are farther difficulties 

 due to the change of characters undergone by one species in the 

 different stages of life, which were wholly neglected by the majority 

 of authors. I have, notwithstanding, succeeded in revising the 

 family, pointing out the identity of certain species and genera, 

 defining some more correctly, and stating the affinities so as to leave 

 but a few species doubtful. I have determined a peculiar geo- 

 graphical distribution of the family agreeing well with its habits 

 and morphological characters. 



The family Atyidce is a very characteristic one among the Decapod 

 group of Eucyphidea. It shows on the one hand a number of 

 primitive characters, on the other a very peculiar shape of the 

 fingers of the chelae. As I have stated in a former paper, ^ the 

 Atyidce are closely connected with the family AecintJiephyridce, which 

 live at great depths in the sea and contain, without doubt, the most 

 primitive Eucyphidea. The morphological differences between the two 

 families are the following: 1. The mandible in the Acantliephyridce 

 is furnished with a palpus (synaphipod), in the Atyidce it is wanting. 



Decapoden u. Schizopoden der Plankton-Expedition, 1893, p. 42. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



2. The fingers of the chelte in the Acanthephyridce are normal in 

 shape, in the Atyidte they are provided with a peculiar pencil of 

 hairs. I may add that the habits of the two families are wholly 

 different, the Acanthephyridce being true marine animals, especially 

 abyssal, the Afyidce being true fresh- water forms. 



Among the Atyidce Kingsley distinguished two subfamilies, Aty- 

 ince and Ephyrime. Since, however, there are but a few genera in 

 this family, a subdivision is needless. The genera form a continu- 

 ous series, the transition being so gradual that it is difficult to define 

 the limits of the two subfamilies. In the following synopsis of the 

 genera the first three named, Xiphocaris, Troglocaris, and Atyaephyra 

 may be regarded as belonging to the subfamily Ephxjrince as created 

 by Kingsley, the others as belonging to the Atyince. Because the genus 

 Ephyra, from which is derived the name Ephyrince, is a synonym, 

 this subfamily must be renamed, and I propose to name it, if at all, 

 Xiphocarmce. 



The presence of exopodites on the pereiopoda of the Xiphocarhur, 

 the shape of the carpal and propodal joints of the first two pairs of 

 pereiopoda, and the shape of the rostrum constitute a very close re- 

 semblance to the Acanthephyridie. Atyaephyra makes a transition to 

 the Atyinw, bearing exopodites only on the first two pairs of pereio- 

 poda, and having the carpal joints of these legs excavated at the distal 

 extremity. This excavation is very characteristic in the true Atyince, 

 but in Caridina the carpal joint only of the first pair of legs shows 

 this peculiarity, that of the second pair being normal. Atyoida is 

 intermediate between Caridina and Aiya in the shape of the propo- 

 dal joints of these legs. Within the limits of Caridina occurs a 

 reduction of the form of the rostrum (being in the Xiphocarinm 

 long and serrated), which in most species of Caridina is longer or 

 shorter and serrated, in a few very short and not serrated. In 

 Atyoida and Atija the rostrum is usually short, but now and then it 

 bears a few teeth on the inferior margin. Thus the series formed by 

 Xiphocaris, Atyaephyra, Caridina, Atyoida, and Atya is a continuous 

 one, whilst the genus Troglocaris is closely allied to Xiphocaris 

 differing only by the rudimentary condition of the eyes, due to its 

 subterranean habits in cave-waters. 



The genus Atya is the most extreme of the family. The adult 

 males of the species of this genus attain a considerable size, and the 

 third pereiopoda undergo with increase of age a change in shape. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



the surface of the body and legs bearing a peculiar sculpture. The 

 most extreme species, Atija erassa, may be separated from the others 

 according to the sculpture of the body and placed in a separate sub- 

 genus, Evatya. 



Fossil Atyidw are not known, although A. Milne-Edwards^ de- 

 scribes a Caridina nitida from the "raarnes d'Aix- en-Provence" 

 (upper eocene or lower oligocene). None of the arguments given 

 by him prove that this fossil is a Caridina. The presence in a fresh- 

 water deposit makes it probable that it belongs to Atyldoi, but for 

 the same reason Homelys minor of Meyer, ^ from the fresh-water de- 

 posits of the upper miocene of Qi^ningen, would belong to the same 

 family. 



ATYID^ Kingsley, 1879. 



Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1879, p. 414. Bate, Challenger 

 Macrur., 1888, p. 691. Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 455. 



Mandibles stout, crown broad, dilated, slightly divided, without a 

 synaphipod. First four pairs of pereiopoda w'ith epipodites. First 

 two pairs of pereiopoda chelate, nearly equal, carpus of the second 

 not annulated. Tips of fingers with pencils of hairs. Rostrum 

 longer or shorter, serrated or not serrated. 



«i. Pereiopoda with exopodites [Xiphocarince] . 



b^. All the i^ereiopoda with exopodites. Carpal joints of the first 

 two pairs of pereiopoda not excavated or but indis- 

 tinctly so. 



Ci. Eyes well developed Xiphocaris. 



c^. Eyes rudimentary TRoaLOCARis. 



&2. Only the first two pairs of pereiopoda w'ith exopodites. Car- 

 pal joints of the first and second pair of pereiopoda distally 



excavated Atyaephyra. 



Oj. Pereiopoda without exopodites [^AtyincB]. 



ftj. Carpal joint of the second pereiopoda normal, not excavated. 

 Rostrum mostly compressed and serrated . . . Caridina. 

 b^. Carpal joint of the second pereiopoda like that of the first 

 distally excavated. 

 Cj. Movable finger shorter than the immovable part of 

 hand, the latter distinctly divided in a palmar por- 

 tion and an immovable finger Atyoida. 



Cj Both fingers alike in size, no palma developed . Atya. 



2 Bull. Soc. Philomat., Paris (7), II, 1879, p. 77. 



3 Palseontographica, X, 3, 1862, p. 172, pi. 19, figs. 3-8. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



XIPHOCAEIS V. Martens, 1872. 



Ephyra de Haan, Faun. Japon. , Crust., Dec. 6, 1849, p. 185.* ( Nomen prseoccu- 

 patum.) 



Xiphocaris v. Martens, Archiv f. Naturg.. 38, 1, 1872, p. 139. 

 Miersia Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1879, p. 416. 

 Xiphocaris Kingsley. Bull. Essex Instit., vol. 14, 1882, p. 127. 

 Paratya Miers, Annal. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), IX, 1882, p. 194. 

 Xiphocai-is Pocock, Annal. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), III, 1889, p. 17. 

 Miersia Ortmann, Jenaische Denkschr., VIII, 1894, p. 8. 



«!. No supraocular spines. Rostrum longer or shorter, with an inter- 

 rupted series of teeth on the upper margin, the basal series 

 containing 9-18, the apical 3-6 teeth Lower margin of 

 rostrum with numerous (16-40) teeth X. elongata. 



SUBSPECIES (or varieties). 



61. Rostrum longer than carapace . . . X. elongata typica (1).^ 



62. Rostrum shorter than carapace. 



Ci. Rostrum longer than the scaphocerite. 



X. elongata intermedia (1). 



C2. Rostrum longer than the stalk of antennulse. 



X. elongata gladiator. 



C3. Rostrum shorter than the stalk of antennulse. 



X. elongata brevirostris. 



a^. Supraocular spines present. Rostrum about as long as the 

 scaphocerites or somewhat longer. An uninterrupted series of 

 20-24 teeth on the upper, 2-4 teeth on the lower margin. 

 X. compressa (3). 



1. Xiphocaris elongata (Gucrin), 1857. 



Hippolvte elons^ata Guerin, Anim. Artie, in: Eamou de la Sagra, Hist, de 

 I'ile de Cuba, 1857, p. 54, pi. 2, fig. 16. 



Op/ophorus americ-a7ius iinussni-e, Mem. Soc. Phys. Hist. Nat. Geneve, t. 14, 2, 

 1858, p. 472, pi, 4, fig. 31. 



Xiphocaris elongata (Guer.) v. Martens, Arch. f. Naturg., 38, 1, 1872, p. 140. 



Oplophorus elongata (Guer.) Kingsley, Bull. Essex Instit., X, 1878, p. 68. 



Xiphocaris elon'irata (Guer.) Pocock, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), III, 1889, p. 

 17 ff, pi. 2, figs. 5-8. 



Xiphocaris gladiator, var. inlerniedia, brevirostris Pocock, ibid. 



Oplopliorus'^ elongatiis (Guer.) Sharp, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila- 

 delphia, 1893, p, 121. 



Geographical distribution: Fresh-waters of the Antilles. — Cuba 

 (Gueriu, v. Martens); Hayti (Saussure); Dominica (Pocock); St, 

 Domingo (Sharp). 



2. Xiphocaris compressa (de Haan), 1849. 



Ephyra compressa de Haan, Faun. Japon. Crust., Dec. 6, 1849, p. 186, pi. 46, 



fig- 7. „ 



Atyeplivra compressa (d. H.) v. Martens, Arch. f. Naturg. , 34, 1, 1868, p. 51 ff, 



pi. 1, fig. 4. 

 Alyephyra compressa (d. H. ) Miers, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (5), IX, 1882,.p. 193. 



* Non Ephyra Eoux, Memoir. Salicoques, 1831, p. 24, which is identical with 

 Acanthcphvrci K. Milne-Edwards, and belongs to the Acanthepliy rides. 



5 I put in parentheses following each species, the number of specimens I 

 have examined myself. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Miersia compressa (d. H.) Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 463. 

 Miersia compressa (d. H.) Ortmann, Jenaisch. Denkschr.. VIII, 1894, p. 8. 



Geographical distribution: Fresh-water of Australasia. — Japan 

 (deHaan); Yokohama (v. Martens), Tokio (Miers, Ortmann); Island 

 of Adenare, near Flores (v. Martens); Queensland: Burnett (Ort- 

 mann). 



TROGLOCARIS Dormitzer, 1853. Dormitzer, Lotos, III, 1853, p. 85. 

 Only one species known, distinguished from Xiphocaris by the 

 rudimentary condition of the eyes. Supraocular spines present. 



1. Troglocaris sclimidti Dormitzer, 1853.^ 

 Dormitzer, ibid., p. 85 fif, pi. 3. 



Geographical distributioji: In the waters of the caves of Car- 

 niola. Caves of Kumpole and Gurk (Dormitzer). 



ATYAEPHYRA Brito-Capello, 1866. 



Atyatphyra Brito-Capello, Descr. Esp. nov. Crust. Arachn., Portugal, Lisboa, 



1866, p. 5. 

 Hemicaridina Ortmann, Zoolog. Jabrb., V, 1890, p. 464. 



Only one species known. 



1. Atyaephyra desmarestii (Millet) 1832 (16). 



Hippolyte desmarestii Millet, Annal. Sci. Nat., t. 25, 1832, p. 461, pi. 10 B. 

 Hippolyte desmarestii Millet, Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 1837, p. 



376. 

 Caridina desmarestii (Mill.) Joly, Annal. Sci. Nat. (2), Zool., t. 19, 1843, p. 



34 ff, pi. 3. 

 Caridina desmarestii (Mill.) Heller, Crust, siidl. Europ., 1863, p. 238, pi. 8, 



fig. 3. 

 Atyaeplivra rosiana Brito-Capello, Descr. esp. nov. Crust. Arachn., Portugal, 



Lisboa, 1866, p. 6, pi. 1, fig. 1. 

 Hemicaridina desmarestii (Mill.) Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 464. 



Geographical distribution: Fresh- water of southern Europe. — 

 Portugal : Coimbra (Brito-Capello) ; southern and western France 

 (Millet, Joly); Corsica, Sicily, Dalmatia (Heller). 



CARIDINA Milne-Edwards, 1837. 



Caridina Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 1837, p, 362. 



Caradina Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1879, p. 415. 



«,. Rostrum longer or shorter, serrated. Anterior margin of carapace 



w'ith an antennal-spine. 



6,. Upper margin of rostrum not serrated. Carpal joint of the 



first pereiopoda but slightly longer than broad . . . . C. typus (2). 



C. americana.'' 



* There is no doubt that the Palirmon anophthalmtis Kollar, Sitz. Ber. 

 Akad. Wiss., Wien, I, 1848, p. 137, from the caves of Kompoljska and Portis- 

 kavez in Carniola is the same species as Troglocaris schmidti. As there is no 

 published description by Kollar, the name anophthahnus cannot be employed. 



" C. americana is a somewhat doubtful species, but certainly it is closely 

 allied to C. typus. 



27 




402' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



^2- Upper margin of rostrum serrated. 

 Cj. Carpal joint of the second pereiopoda shorter than the hand, 

 carpal joint of the first pereiopoda short. Rostrum about as 



long as the auteunal scale C. brevicarpalis (1). 



Cj. Carpal joint of the second pereiopoda longer than the hand, 

 dj. Rostrum horizontally projecting or slightly deflexed, shorter 

 than the antennal scale, 

 gj. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda short, not more than 

 IJ as long as broad, 

 /j. Lower margin of rostrum serrated. 



ffi- Upper margin of rostrum with about 13-20 teeth, 



rostrum mostly longer than the first joint of the 



antennulye. 



A,. Eggs small and numerous. Fingers of the second 



pereiopoda twice as long as the palm, 



^l. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda distinctly longer 



than broad C. weberi. 



%. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda nearly as broad 



as it is long C. japonica. 



/ij. Eggs greater and not numerous. E'iugers of the 

 second pereiopoda but slightly longer than the palm. 



C. pareparensis. 



ffi- Upper margin of rostrum with 3-5 teeth; rostrum as 

 long or a little longer than the first joint of the anten- 



nulai C. thnorensis. 



g^. Upper margin of rostrum with 7-12 teeth ; rostrum 

 shorter than the first joint of the autenuulae. 



C. p>CLTvirostris. 



/j. Lower margin of rostrum not serrated. . . . C. richtersi. 



gj. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda longer, at least twice 



as long as broad. 



/j. Spine at the base of the autennulye shorter than the first 



joint. 



g-^. Dactylus of the fifth pereiopoda nearly half as long as 



the propodus C. Icevis. 



g.^. Dactylus of the fifth pereiopoda very short, |-i- of the 

 propodus. 

 Aj. Rostrum shorter than the stalk of the antennulae, 

 upper margin with 20-30 teeth, lower with 5-14. 



C. mulUdeniata. 



h^. Rostrum about as long as the stalk of tjhe antennulse. 

 /i. Teeth of the upper niargiu of rostrum 10-15, not 

 continued to the tip of rostrum, on the tip 1-2 

 teeth, on the lower margin 7-12. 



C. ofricana (many). 



i,. Teeth of the upper margin of rostrum 20-25, in a 

 continuous series to the tip C.fossaruni. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



/,. Spine at the base of the antennulse longer than the first 



joint C. serratirostris. 



d,. Rostrum slightly bent upward, longer than the antenual 

 scale. Upper margin partially destitute of teeth. 

 e■^. The proximal teeth on the upper margin of rostrum 

 crowded, numerous. 

 /,. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda a little shorter than 

 the hand. 

 g^. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda 2-2J as long as 



broad C. wycki (many). 



(/j. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda only \l as long as 



broad C. nilotica (1). 



f^. Carpal joint of the first pereiopoda very much shorter 



than the hand C. grandirostris. 



63. The i^roximal teeth on the upper margin of rostrum re- 

 mote, not numerous C. gracilirostris. 



a 2. Rostrum very short, not serrated. Anterior margin of the carapace 

 without an antennal spine. 

 6,. Fingers of the first pereiopoda about as long as the palm. 



C. singhalensis (many). 



62. Fingers of the first pereiopoda much shorter than the palm. 

 C. brevirostris. 



1. Caridina typus Milne-Edwards, 1837.* 



Caridma typus Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. Crust., II, 1837, p. 363, pi. 2.5 bis, 



figs. 4, 5. 

 C. exilirost7-is Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Xat. Sci., PWladelphia, 1860, p. 29. 

 C. siamensis Giebel. Zeitschr. f. d. ges. Naturw., 21, 1863. p. 329. 

 C. typus M. E., Miers, Philosoph. Trans. London. 168, 1879, p. 492. Eichters, 



Beitr. Meeresfaun. Maurit. Seychell. Decap., 1880, p. 162, pi. 17, fig. 23. 

 C. typus M. E., de Man, in Weber, Zoolog. Ergebn. Eeis. Niederl. Ost- 



Indien, II, 1892. p. 367, pi. 21, fig. 22. 

 C. typus M. E., de Man, Not. Leyd. Mus., 15, 1893, p. 300. 

 C. typus M. E., Sharp, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1893, p. 111. 

 C. typus M. E., Ortmann, Jenaische Denkschr., YIII, 1894, p. 8. 



Geographical distribution: Fresh-water of the Islands of the 



Indian Ocean and of Indo- Malaysia. — Mauritius (Richters, Sharp); 



Rodriguez (Miers); Seychelles (Richters); Siam (Giebel); Flores, 



Timor, Saleyer, Celebes (de Man); Amboina (Ortmann); Loo-Choo 



(Stimpson). 



2, Caridina americana Guerin, 1857. 



Guerin. Anim. Artie, in Eamon de la Sagra, Hist, de Pile de Cuba, 1857, p. 



.52. pi. 2, fig. 13. 

 V. Martens, Arch. f. Naturg., 38, 1, 1872, p. 135. 

 Pocock, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. (6), III, 1889, p. 16, pi. 2, fig. 4. 



Geographical didribution: Cuba (Guerin, v. Martens); Dominica 

 (Pocock). 



* Caridina typhis Bate, Challenger Macr. 1888, p. 704, pi. 119, fig. 3, from 

 San Jago, Cape Verde Isl. is probably a different species. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



3. Caridina brevicarpalis de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in Weber, Zool. Erg., etc., II, 1892, p. 397, pi. 24, fig. 30. 

 Ortmann, Jenaische Denlischr. , VIII, 1894, p. 9. 



Geographical distribution: Celebes (de Man) ; Amboiua ( Ortmann). 



4. Caridina weberi de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in : Weber, Zool. Erg., etc., II, 1892, p. 371, pi. 22, fig. 23. 

 De Man, Not. Leyden Mas., 14, 1892, pi. 9, fig. 8. 



Geographical distribution: Sumatra; Java; Saleyer; Celebes; 



Flores (De Man). 



5. Caridina japonica de Man, 1892. 



De Man, Not. Leyd. Mus., 14, 1892, p. 261, pH 9, fig. 7. 



Geographical distribution : Japan: Kagar, Hayagana (De Man). 



6. Caridina pareparensis de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in : Weber, Zool. Erg., etc., II, 1892, p. 379, pi. 22, fig. 25. 



Geographical distribution: Celebes (De Man). 



7. Caridina timorensis de Man, 1893. 



De Man, Not. Leyd. Mus., 15, 1893, p. 300, pi. 8, fig. 6. 



Geographical distribntion: Timor (De Man). 



8. Caridina parvirostris de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in : Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 375, pi. 22, fig. 24. 



Geographical distribution: Flores (De Man). 



9. Caridina richtersi Thallwitz, 1891. 



C. serrata Eichters, Beitr. Meeresf. Maur. Seych. Decap., 1880, p. 163, pi. 17, 



figs. 24-27 (nomen prieoccupatum ) . 

 C. richtersi Thallwitz, Abhandl. Mus. Dresden, 3, 1891, p. 27, foot-note. 



Geographical distribution : Mauritius (Richters). 



10. Caridina laevis Heller, 1862. 



Heller, Sitz. Ber. Acad. Wiss., Wien, 45, 1, 1862, p. 411. 



De Man, in : Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 376, pi. 23, fig. 27. 



Geographical distribidion : Java (Heller, De Man). 



11. Caridina multidentata Stimpson, 1860. 



Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, p. 29. 



De Man, in: Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 380, pi. 22, fig. 26. 



Geographical disiribidion : Bonin Isl. (Stimpson); Celebes (De 

 Man). 



12. Caridina africana Kingsley, 1882.' 



Kingsley, Bull. Essex Instit., vol. 14, 1882, p. 127, pi. 1, fig. 3. 



Geographical distribidion : S. Africa: Zulu Land (Kingsley). 



8 Having examined the types of this species in the Museum of the Academy 

 of Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, I can give the following details : — 



Carpal .joint of the first pereiopoda twice as long as broad on the distal ex- 

 tremity, a little shorter than the hand. Fingers about equal to tlie palm. Car- 

 pal joint of the second pereiopoda four times as long as broad on the distal ex- 

 tremity, a little longer than the hand. Fingers about 1>^ as long as thepalm. 

 Dactylus of the fourth pereiopoda about 1-5 of the propodus, the fifth pereiopoda 

 are in none of the type specimens preserved. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



13. Caridina fossarum Heller, 1862. 



Heller. Sitzb. Acad. Wiss., Wien, 45, 1, 1862, p. 411. 



De Man, in : Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 397. 



Geographical distribution: Persia: Schiraz (Heller). 



14. Caridiua serratirostris de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in : Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 382, pi. 23, fig. 28. 



Geographical distribution: Flores; Saleyer; Celebes (De Man). 



15. Caridina wycki (Hickson), 1888. 



Aiya ziivcki Hickson, Annal. Mag. Nat, Hist. (6), II, 1888, p. 357, pi. 13, 14 

 Caridina uycki (Hicks.) Thallwitz, Abhandl. Mus. Dresden, 3, 1891, p. 27. 

 Caridina wycki (Hicks.) de Man, in: Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 



386, pi. 24, fig. 29-29k. 

 Caridina zrirX-/ (Hicks.) de :Man. Not. Leyden ]\Ius., 15, 1893, p. 302, pi. 8, fig. 7. 

 Caridina wycki (Hicks.) Ortmann, Jenaisclie Denkschr., VIII, 1894, p. 9. 



Geographical distribution: From East- Africa to eastern Australia. 

 — East- Africa: Dar-es-Salaam (Ortmann); Ceylon (Ortmann); 

 Celebes (Hickson, Thallwitz, de Man); Saleyer (de Man); Flores 

 (de Man) ; Timor (de Man); Queensland : Burnett (Ortmann). 



16. Caridina nilotica (Eoux), 1833.io 



Pelias niloticus Eoux, Annal. Sei. Nat., t. 28, 1833, p. 73, pi. 7, fig. 1. 

 Caridina /ow^/roi-Zr/i-- Milne-Edwards, Hist. Nat. C'ru.st., II, 1837, p. 363. 

 Caridina longirostris Lucas, Explor. Alger. Anini. Artie, 1849, p. 40, pi. 4, 



fig. 1. 

 Cariditia longirostris Heller, Sitzb. Acad. Wiss., Wien, 45, 1, 1862, p. 412. 

 Caridina longirostris de Man, in: Weber, Zool. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 396, 



pi. 24, fig. 291, 29m, 29mm. 

 Caridina longirostris Sbarp, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1893, p. 



111. 



Geographical distribution : Northern Africa. — Nile (Roux); Algiers 

 (Lucas, Sharp) ; River Macta, near Oran (Milne-Edwards). 



17. Caridina grandirostris Stimpson, 1860. 



Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860. p. 28. 



Geographical distribution: Loo-Choo (Stimpson). 



18. Caridina gracilirostris de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in Weber. Zoolog. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 399, pi. 25, fig. 31. 



Geographical distribution: Sumatra, Celebes, Saleyer, Flores (De 

 Man). 



.19. Caridina singhalensis Ortmann, 1894. 



Ortmann, Jenaische Denkschr., VIII, 1894, p. 9, pi. 1, fig. 2. 



Geographical distribution: Ceylon (Ortmann), 



1" It is doubtful, whether the following quotations belong to this species or 

 to Car. wycki: 



C. nilotica Hilgendorf, Mon. Ber. Akad. Wiss., Berlin, 1878, p. 828. — Mozam- 

 bique, Tette. 



C. lo7igiroslris Eichters, Beitr. Meeresf. Maur. Seych. Decap., 1880, p. 162. — 

 Seychelles. 



C nilotica Pfeffer, Jahrb. Hamburg Wiss. Anstalt. , VI, 1889, p. 35. — Zanzibar. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



20. Caridina brevirostris Stimpson, 1860. 

 Stiiupson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, p. 29. 



Geographical distribution: Loo-Choo (Stimpson). 



Doubtful Species." 



Caridina denticulata de Haan, Faun. Japon. Crust., Dec. 6, 1849, p. 186, pi. 45, 

 fig. 8. — Japan. 



Caridina leucosticta Stimpson, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1860, p. 

 28. — Japan, Simoda. 



Caridina serrata Stimpson, ibid., p. 29. — Hongkong. 



Caridina acuminata Stimpson, ibid., p. 29. — Bonin Isl. 



Caridina spathulirostris Eichters, Beitr. Meeresf. Maur. Seych., 1880, p. 163, pi. 

 17, fig. 28.— Mauritius. 



Caridina curvirostris Heller, 1862. 



Heller, Verhandl. Zool. Bot. Qesellsch., Wien, 12, 1862, p. 525. 



Heller, Crust. Novara, 1868, p. 105. 



Miers, Catal. Crust. New Zealand, 1876, p. 78. 



Geographical distribution: Auckland (Heller). 



This species is provided with an supraorbital and an antennal 

 spine, the spine at the base of the antennulse is longer than the first 

 joint. 



It may belong to the genus Xiphocaris and may be identical with a 

 species of Xiphocaris from the River Avon, near Christ Church, pre- 

 sent in the Museum of Strassburg. Unfortunately I cannot give a 

 description of these specimens and a comparison with Heller's species. 



ATYOIDA Randall, 1839. 

 Eandall, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, VIII, 1839, p. 140. 



This genus''^ has, up to the present time, been very doubtful. 

 Examining specimens of Atyoida bisulcata from Oahu, Sandwich, in 

 the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 (No. 162), I find that the hands of the two anterior pairs of legs 

 are wholly different from the typical Atya, in the same manner as 

 figured by F. Miiller in Atyoida potimirim (1. c. , figs. 3 and 4). In 



11 The following three species described by Bate do not belong to Caridina; 

 but to the family Hippolytidce: — 



Caridina truncifrons Bate, Proceed. Zool. Soc. London, 1863, p. 499, pi. 40, 

 fig. 2, belonging to Latrentes. 



Caridina cincinnuli Bate, ibid., p. 500, pi. 40, fig. 3, and Caridina tenuiros- 

 tris Bate, ibid., p. 501, pi. 40, fig. 4, both belonging to Virbiits. (All three from 

 Australia, St. Vincents Gulf. 



•■■^ A/ya serrata Bate, Challenger Macrur, 1888, p. 699, pi. 119, fig. 2, from 

 San Jago, Cape Verd Isl., and some other species described from the West Indies 

 (see below), may belong to this genus. In A. serrata the ro.strum is shorter and 

 dentate below. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Atyoida the hands are formed like those of Caridina: the dactylus 

 (movable finger) is inserted on the upper margin of the propodus, 

 being shorter than the latter and forming a chela, as usual in the 

 Deeapoda, consisting of a palmar portion and two fingers. In Atya, 

 on the contrary, the dactylus articulates with the propodus on the 

 posterior end of the latter, both joints being exactly alike and form- 

 ing a hand of a very peculiar shape among the Deeapoda, the 

 palmar portion being wholly reduced, and the hand consisting only 

 of two fingers about alike in size, and connected with each other at 

 the posterior ends. The carpal joint of the chelipeds in Atyoida is 

 longer than in Atya, especially on the second pair of legs. 



a^. Rostrum dentate below. Carpal joint of the first pair of pereio- 

 poda longer than broad A. potimirim. 



«2. Rostrum not dentate below. Carpal joint of the first pair of 

 pereiopoda not longer than broad A. bisulcata (many). 



1. Atyoida potimirim F. Miiller, 1881. 



F. Miiller, Kosmos (Krause), IX, 1881, p. 117 flf, figs. 1-20. 



Geographical dlstrihidion : Brazil : Itajahy (F. Miiller). 



2. Atyoida bisulcata Eandall, 1839. 



Atyoida bisulcata Eandall, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, VIII, 1839, 



p. 140, pi. 5, fig. 5. 

 Atyoida bisulcata Dana, U. S. Expl. Exp. Crust., 1852, p. 540, pi. 34, fig. 1. 

 Atyoida bis7t/cata Stimjison, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1800. p. 28. 

 Atyoida tahitensis Stimpson, ibid. 

 Atyoida bisulcata and tahitensis A. Milne-Edwards, Annal. Sec. Entomol., 



France (4), IV, 1864, pp. 151 and 152. 

 Atya bisulcata (Band.), Bate, Challenger Macrur., 1888, p. 700, pi. 120. 

 Alva bisulcata (Hand.), Sharp, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1893, 

 ' p. 111. 



Geographical distribution: Hawaiian Isl. (Kandall, Stimpson): 



Oahu (Dana, Sharp) ; Tahiti (Stimpson). 



ATYA Leach, 1317. 



Atys Leach, Trans. Linn. See. London, XI, 1815, p. 345 (nomen prEcoccupa- 



tum). 

 Atya Leach, Zoolog. Miscell., Ill, 1817, p. 29. 



ctj. Rostrum shorter than the antenuular peduncle, without teeth on 



the upper margin [Subgenus J ^^a]. 



6i. Rostrum without lateral keels and without lateral teeth 

 near the base. 

 Cj. Rostrum longer than the first joint of the antennulse, 

 horizontally projecting or sometimes bent upward. 



A. moluGcensis (6). 



Cj. Rostrum as long as or shorter than the first joint of 

 the anteuuuhe, bent downward. A. spinipes^^ (12). 



" A. spinipes might be regarded as a variety of A. moluccensis. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



b.^. Rostrum with lateral keels ending by angles or short spines 

 on each side of the base of rostrum. 

 Cp Carapace not sculptured with keels, but often punctate. 

 Third pair of legs (in the adult) without a 

 spine on the inferior margin, 

 dp Rostrum very short. Lateral keels ending in 

 front in angles, not in spines. 



A, brevirostris (3). 



dj. Rostrum longer. Lateral keels ending in front 

 in spiniform angles. 

 e^. Merus of the first two pairs of pereiopoda 

 hairy. '* 

 /]. Rostrum straight. 



?A. margarUacea (3). 



/.^. Rostrum bent downward. 



fA. robusta. 



62 . Merus of the first two pairs of pereiopoda 



not hairy (?) A. scabra (3). 



Cj. Carapace strongly sculptured in front with keels. 



Third pair of legs on the inferior margin with a 



spine in adult specimens. ^^ . . . A. gabonensis (1). 



ttj. Rostrum as long as the antennal scale, upper margin with six to 



eight spines. Anterior part of carapace with numerous spines 



and spiny carinations [Subgenus : Evatya Smith] 



A. {Evatya) crassa. 



1. Atya moluccensis de Haan, 1849. 



A. mohtcce?isis de Haan, Faun. Japon. Crust., Dec. 6, 1849, p. 186. 



A. armada A. Milne-Edwards, Annal. Soc. Entomol., France (4), IV, 1864, p. 



149, pi. 3, fig. 3. 

 A. armata v. Martens, Arch. f. Naturg., 34, 1, 1868, p. 47, pi. 1, fig. 6. 

 A. moluccensis d. H., Miers, Annal. Magaz. Is^at. Hist. (5), V, 1880, p. 382, pi. 



15, fig. 3, 4. 

 A. gustavi (dx\m^&mi, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 467, pi. 36, fig. 9. 

 A. dentirostris Thallwitz, Abhandl. Mus., Dresden, 3, 1891, p, 26, fig. 7. 

 A. moluccensis d. H., de Man, in Weber, Zoolog. Ergebn. Eels. Niederl. Ost- 



Indien, II, 1892, p. 357. pi. 21, fig. 20. 

 A. m.oluccensis d. H., Ortmann, Jenaiscbe Denkschr., VIII, 1894, p. 10. 



Geographical distribution : Fresh- water of the Indian Archipelago. 



— Sumatra (de Man, Ortmann); Java (A. Milne- Edwards,^® Miers, 



de Man); Batj an (Miers); Bali (Miers); Celebes (Miers, de Man, 



1* The differences between the New Caledonian species A. margaritacea 

 and robusta and the West Indian A. scabra are very doubtful, since the anterior 

 pereiopoda of the latter have the merus furnished with a few hairs. I suppose 

 that the locality given by Milne-Edwards for margai-itacea and robusla is not 

 correct, and that there is no difl'erence from A. scabra. (See below.) 



15 I think the differences of A. gabonensis and perhaps also of A. crassa 

 are not of specific value, but that they are diflerences of age: A. gabo>iensis 

 would be a very old state of A. scabra, but it may be that A. crassa is a distinct 

 species. 



1^ A. Milne-Edwards records his specimens, 1. c, erroneously from the Philip- 

 pine Islands (see de Man, 1. c, p. 357, foot-note). 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Thallwitz); Saleyer (de Man); Ceram (v. Martens); Timor (de 

 Man); Flores (de Man) ; Amboiua (Ortmann); Philippine Islands : 

 Samar (v. Martens). 



2. Atya spinipes Newport, 1847. 



A. spinipes Newport, Annul. Magaz. Nat. Hist., XIX, 1847, p. 159. 



A. pilipes Newport, ibid., p. 160. 



A. spinipes and pilipes Newp., A. Milne-Edwards, Annal. Soc. Entomol., 



France (4), IV, 1864, pp. 149, 150. 

 A. pilipes Newp., Miers, fatal. Crust., New Zealand, 1876, p. 79. 

 A. spinipes zm^ pilipes Newp., Miers, Annal. Magaz. Nat. Hist. (5), V, 1880, p. 



283, pi. 15, figs. 5, 6. 

 A. pilipes Newp., Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 466, pi. 36, fig. 8. 



Geogy^aphical distribution: This species represents the A. moluc- 

 censis in the fresh-water of the Pacific Islands. — Philippine Islands 

 (Newport); Caroline Isl. (Ortmann); Fiji Isl. (Ortmann); Samoa 

 Islands (Newport, Miers, Ortmann).''' 



3. Atya brevirostris de Man, 1892. 



De Man, in: Weber, Zoolog. Ergebn., etc., II, 1892, p. 360, pi. 21, fig. 21. 

 Ortmann, Jeuaische Denkschr., VIII, 1894, p. 10. 



Geographical distribution: Flores (De Man); Timor (De Man); 

 Amboina (Ortmann). 



14. Atya margaritacea A. Milne-Edwards, 1864. 



A. Milne-Edwards, Annal. Soc. Entomol., France (4), IV, 1864, p. 148, pi. 3, 



fig. 2. 

 Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 465, pi. 36, fig. 7. 



Geographical distribution : New Caledonia (A. Mihie- Edwards). 



■? 5. Atya robusta A. Milne-Edwards, 1864. 

 A. Milne-Edwards, ibid., 1864, p. 148, pi. 3, fig. 1. 



Geographical distribution: New Caledonia (A. Milne-Edwards). 



6. Atya scabra Leach, 1815. 



Alj's scaber Leach, Trans. Linn. Soc. London, XI, 1815, p. 345. 



Atya scabra Leach, Zoolog. Miscell., Ill, 1817, p. 29, pi. 131. 



Atya scabj-a Desmarest, Consider. Gener. Crust., 1825, p. 217. 



A. niexicana Wiegmann, Arch. f. Naturg., II, 1, 1836, p. 145. 



A. scabi'a Lch., Milne-Edwards, Hist. Natur. Crust., II, 1837, p. 942, pi. 24, 

 figs. 15-19, and Atlas, Cuvier's Kegn. anim., pi. 51, fig. 4. 



A. sulcatipes Newport, Anual. ]Magaz. Nat. Hist., XIX, 1847, p. 159, pi. 8, fig. 1. 



A. occidentalis Newport, ibid. 



A. scabt-a Lch., Stimpson, Boston Journ. Nat. Hist., VI, 1857, p. 498. 



A. scabra, sulcatipes. a.nA occidentalis A. Milne-Edwards, Annal. Soc, En- 

 tomol., France (4j, IV, 1864. pp. 146, 147. 



A. nivalis and tenella Smith, 2 and 3 Eep. Peabody Acad. Sci., 1871. p. 94. 



A. scabra and occidentalis v. Martens, Arch. f. Naturg., 38, 1, 1872, p. 135. 



A. punctata Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1878, p. 91. 



A. occidentalis Newp., Kingsley, ibid., p. 92. 



A. sulcatipes Newp., Bate, Challenger Macrur., 1888, p. 694, pi. 118, 119, fig. 1. 



A. occidentalis Newp., Pocock, Annal. Mag. N. H. (6), III, 1889, p. 11, pi. 2, 

 fig. 3. 



A. scabra Lch., Sharp, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1893, p. 111. 



" The locality, " New Zealand," given by Newport is an error. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Geographical distribution: Fresh- water of the West Indies aucl 

 the Cape Verde Islands. —Mexico (Wiegmauu, Milne-Edwards, v. 

 Martens, Stimpson, Sharp) ; Nicaragua (Smith) ; Cuba (v. Martens) ; 

 Hayti (Kingsley) ; Jamaica (Newport); Dominica (Pocock); Mar- 

 tinique (Sharp); Tobago (Mus. Strassburg'*). — Cape Verde Islands: 

 San Nicolao (Newport); San Jago (Bate). 



7. Atya gabonensis Giebel, 1875. 



Alj'a i^aboriensis Giebel, Zeitscbr. f. d. gesammt. Naturwiss. (2), XI, 1875, 



p/53. 

 Euaiva sciilptilis Kolbel, Sitz. Ber. Acad. Wiss. Wien, vol. 90, 1, 1884, p. 317, 



p'l. 2, fig. 8, pi. 3. 

 Ayta sculptata Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1890, p. 465. 



Geographical distribution: Gaboon (Giebel); Orinoco (Kolbel). 



8. Atya (Evatya) crassa Smith, 1871. 



Smith, 2 and 3 Eep. Peabody Acad. Sci., 1871, p. 95. 



Kolbel, Sitzb. Acad. Wiss., Wien, vol. 90,1, 1884, p. 318, foot-note. 



Geographical distribution : Nicaragua (Smith) ; Mexico : Presidio 



(Kolbel). 



Doubtful Species. 



Atya poeyi Guerin, Crust, in Ramon de la Sagra, Hist, de I'tle de Cuba, 1857, 

 p. 46, pl. 2. fig. 7.— Cuba. 



Caridina mexicana Saussure, Mem. See. Phys. Hist. Nat. Geneve, 14, 2, 1858, p. 

 463, pl. 4, fig. 26.— Mexico. 



Atyoida glabra Kingsley, Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1878, p. 93 — 

 Nicaragua. 



Atya serrata Bate, Challenger Macrur., 1888, p. 699, pl. 119. fig. 2.— Cape Verde 

 Isl. : San Jago. 



These species may be the young of A. scabra or may belong to 

 Atyoida. 



Considerations concerning the geographical distribution of the 



Atyid(B. 

 Some species of Attjidce. were formerly considered to be marine 

 animals; there is now no doubt that this family contains only fresh- 

 water forms. This family is probably one of the most primitive 

 groups of Decapoda living in fresh- water, having immigrated at an 

 early geological period. 



Only two species, Caridina tvycki and gracilirostris, are recorded 

 by Weber^** as found in a few cases in brackish waters of Sumatra 



18 This locality is not yet published : there is one adult male fromTobago in 

 the museum at Strassburg. 



1^ Die Siisswassercrustaceen der Indischen Archipels. — Zoolog. Ergebn. 

 Eeise Niederl. Ost.-Indien., II, 1892, p. 542. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



aud Celebes.-" I believe, that this occurrence*niay be considered as 

 a re-adaptation of these two species, as they are found also in fresh- 

 water. Since the genus Caridina is not a primitive one, while the 

 genera of the Xiphocarince are so, and live exclusively in fresh- 

 water, it is very probable, that the fresh-water habit of the family 

 must be regarded as the original manner of living. I believe, there- 

 fore, that the Atyidce, even of the Indian Archipelago, are not im- 

 migrants from the sea, as stated by Weber (1. c. , p. 543), but "true 

 localized fresh-water animals, forming an old element of the fresh- 

 water fauna. "^^ 



The main differences of the Atyidce and their supposed ancestors, 

 the Acanthephyridce, are morphological as well as biological, the 

 Acanthephyridfe being true marine, and essentially abyssal animals. 

 To all appearance the morphological differences are causally connected 

 with the change of habits. The peculiar pencil of hairs at the distal 

 extremities of the fingers is adapted for securing the special food 

 required, as described by F. Miiller in Atyoida potimirim.^^ No 

 doubt the other species of Atyidce feed in the same manner. I cannot 

 say whether the absence of the synaphipod of the mandible is due to 

 the same cause, since the function of the synaphipod is unknown, but 

 it may be in connection with it. On the other hand the habits of 

 the Acanthephyridce are wholly unknown, so that we cannot compare 

 this family with the Atyidce, but it is very probable that the mor- 

 phological differences of the Acanthephyridce correspond to differences 

 in the habits, especially in securing food. 



We can state, briefly, that the Atyidce are closely allied to the 

 most primitive Eucyphidea, forming a peculiar branch of develop- 

 ment very early separated from the main stem, now represented by 

 the Acanthephyridce. Their several characters are connected with a 

 change of habit, and with the immigration to fresh-waters. 



The geographical range of the Atyida^ embraces the whole of the 

 circumtropical parts of the world, members of the family being re- 

 corded from all the localities explored within these limits. Only in 

 two localities does the range exceed the true tropics : in Japan, where 

 it extends as far north as Tokio, and in the Mediterranean province, 



-0 See de Man, ibid., pp. 387, 399, 400. 



21 Weber, 1. c, p. 533: "echte regionale imd locale Siisswasserticre, die 

 einen alten Bestand der Siisswasser Fauua bilden." 



22 Kosmos, IX, 1881, p. 117 ff. 




412 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



where it extends northward to southern France and southern Austria. 

 This nearly exclusive distribution within the tropics, at least in the 

 warmer climates, shows that the family was probably also in former 

 times an inhabitant of the warmer parts of the world, and the possi- 

 bility is granted that the immigration into fresh-water took place at 

 a time when climatic zones were not at all differentiated, a tropical 

 climate prevailing everywhere. If this immigration took place in 

 a later time, the poles having undergone a cooling, one could not 

 understand the presence of the family in all parts of the tropics, as 

 well as the occurrence of some genera {Xiphocaris, Carldina, Atya) 

 on both of the present great continents, the eastern and western. 



After the cooling of the northern and southern circumpolar regions^^ 

 the range of the family was divided into two parts : an eastern com- 

 prising the tropical Africa, Asia, Australia, and the Pacific islands, 

 and a western comprising tropical America.^* The most primitive 

 genera of the family were restricted in range by the concurrence of 

 the more extremely developed ones, and the latter preserved a more 

 circuratropical distribution. 



It is very interesting to examine the geographical range of the 

 genera and species from the point of view here given. 



The most primitive genus, Xiphocaris, shows a distribution the 

 peculiarity of which can only be understood by supposing that the 

 range of this genus was formerly a more extended one, but that in 

 most parts of the world the representatives were exterminated. Only 

 three species survived, one of which lives now in the fresh-waters oi 

 the West Indies, the other in Indo-Malaysia, from Japan to Australia, 

 and the third in New Zealand. From the intermediate countries 

 species of this genus are not recorded. The Indo-Malaysian species, 

 Xiphocaris compressa, repeats, as we know at present, this peculiarity 

 in a reduced manner, being only recorded from Japan, the island of 



23 See Ortmanii Jenaische Deukschr., VIII. 1894, p. 74, and Pfeller, Versuch 

 libeT die erdgeschiclitliche Eutwickelung der jetzigen Verbreitungsverhaltnisse 

 uuseres Thierwelt. Hamburg, 1891. 



-* la case the Atyida^ immigrated from the sea into the fresli-water after 

 this separation, it is very proba))le that the geographical distribution would not 

 be a circumtropical one, but that different groups immigrated into the western 

 and eastern continents. We know another group of Decapoda, in which the 

 latter is the case : the family Telphusidxe, one subfamily of which the Telphus- 

 incB, being restricted to the tropical and subtropical parts'of the eastern continents 

 (Mediterranean, African, Indian, Indo-Malaysian, etc.), two other subfamilies, 

 Trichodactylince and Pseudotelphusince, being restricted to the tropical parts 

 of America. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Adenare, and from Queensland.^' The closely allied genus Troglo- 

 caris, the only species of which might be regarded as a fourth form 

 of Xiphocaris, lives in the subterranean waters of Carniola, a per- 

 fectly isolated locality in no way connected with the others named. 

 The third primitive genus, Atyacplujra, is found near the locality of 

 Troglocaris on the northern borders of the Mediterranean Sea. It 

 is somewhat less primitive. The scattered localities at which are 

 found the species of these three genera forming the subfamily Xipho- 

 carince are no doubt the remains of a more universal distribution in 

 former times : the species now living show the character of true 

 survivals. 



In the subfamily Atyince, the genus Atyoida shows a survival 

 character similar to that of the Xiphocarince ; being recorded from 

 the Sand\^^ch Islands, Tahiti, and southern Brazil. But this genus 

 must be the subject of farther study. 



The genus Caridina appears to be nearly a circumtropical one. 

 Its range is divided into two very unequal parts : the one comprising 

 the West Indies and containing only one species, the other compris- 

 ing a continuous area of the old world and containing at least nine- 

 teen other species. This area extends from South Africa along the 

 east coast to the southern borders of the Mediterranean Sea and 

 to Persia, crossing the islands of the Indian Ocean and Indo- Ma- 

 laysia to Japan and Australia.-^ Species of this genus have not yet 

 been found in West Africa, in southern Asia (except Ceylon and 

 Siam), and in the Pacific islands, but it may be that some species 

 will be discovered later in these countries. 



This distribution of the genus can only be understood by suppos- 

 ing that it was present before a separation of the eastern and western 

 parts of the tropics took place, and that the extended range of former 

 times is now restricted to the tropical parts of the continents border- 

 ing the Indian Ocean and to its islands, and to the islands of eastern 

 Asia from Japan to Australia. The occurrence of one species in the 

 Nile and in the rivers of Algiers is due, I believe, to a more recent 

 immigration from the central and eastern parts of Africa, not unlike 

 the occurrence of Pakemon nitolicus." 



25 It may he that this species will he found on other islands between Asia 

 and Australia, but it is very remarkable that the large collections of fresh- 

 water Crustacea made by M. Weber in the Indian Archipelago, and described by 

 de Man, do not contain this species. 



^6 A poorly descrilied species is recorded from the Cape Verde Islands. 



2' See Ortmann, Zoolog. Jahrb., V, 1891, p. 745. 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



It is very probable that farther investigations will prove that the 

 range of Caridina is a somewhat different one, since fresh-water 

 Crustacea of smaller size are mostly neglected by collectors, and the 

 fauna of the fresh- waters of most tropical countries are very little 

 known. Accordingly, the view given above on the geographical 

 distribution of Caridina may, perhaps, have to be changed later. 



The distribution of the most extreme genus of the family, Atya, 

 is somewhat similar to that of Caridina. It is found, like the latter, 

 in the West Indies and Indo- Malaysia, but there are some modifica- 

 tions. One species is known from West Africa, which is identical 

 with another described from the Orinoco, and there is recorded one 

 species from the Cape Verde Island, identical with the common West 

 Indian form. The presence of identical fresh- water species, both 

 in the West Indies and in West Africa, is a very remarkable fact, 

 but not an isolated one among the Decapoda. We know another 

 group of fresh-water Crustacea which shows the same peculiarity. 

 Of the genus Pakemon there are three species described from West 

 Africa, two of which. Pal. jamaiceusis {=voUenhoveni) and Pal. 

 olfersi, are likewise present in the West Indies, and one. Pal. macro- 

 brachion, is closely allied to a West Indian species. Pal. acanthurus.'^^ 

 In Atya the identity of species of both continents bordering the 

 Atlantic is due, no doubt, to other reasons than in Pakemon, the 

 latter being a very recent genus, having immigrated to the fresh- 

 waters quite recently, while some species are now immigrating from 

 the sea to brackish and fresh- water. On the contrary, the immigra- 

 tion to fresh- water of the ancestors of Atya took place a long time 

 ago, and, I think, this fact indicates a former connection of Africa 

 and America. 



The other range of the genus Atya extends over the islands of the 

 Pacific from Sumatra to the Saraoan islands. None is recorded from 

 southern Asia, from the islands of the Indian Ocean, or from East 

 Africa." 



The two species described by A. Milne- Edwards from New Cale- 

 donia, A. margaritacea and robusta, are very doubtful, as I have 

 stated above. I do not know another example of a fresh-water 



^* See Ortmann, ibid., p. 747. — Palcrmoii voUcnhovcni is certainly the same 

 as Pal. jamaiceusis; in the paper quoted I supposed them to be nearly allied, but 

 distinct species. 



2* Only Hilgendorf (v. d. Decken's Eeisen, III, 1, 1869, p. 101) records a very 

 doubtful species from the Seychelles, belonging, perhaps, to Atyoida. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



Decapod i-estricted to New Caledonia. Our present knowledge of 

 the fresh-water fauna of the Pacific islands leaves it very improbable 

 that New Caledonia has an isolated fauna, differing from that of the 

 other islands. It is probable, on the contrary, that species found in 

 New Caledonia will be found also in other islands, but since A. 

 Milue- Edwards, in 1864, described these two species, they have never 

 been recorded from any place in t-he Pacific. It may be added that 

 the differences of these species from the West Indian, A. sccibra, given 

 by A. Milne-Edwards, are scarcely at all present. I am, therefore, 

 induced to suppose that both are erroneously recorded from New 

 Caledonia, the true locality being the West Indies, and that they are 

 identical with .4. scabra. 



If these considerations are correct, the genus Atya can be divided 

 into two groups: the one containing the species bearing on each side 

 of the rostrum at the base a spiniform angle, the other containing 

 the species without a spiniform angle. To the first belong the species 

 A. scabra, gabonensis, and crassa, their range extending over tropical 

 America and West Africa; to the second belong A. moluceensis, 

 spinipes, and brevirostris, the range of which comprises the Indo- 

 Malaysian and Pacific islands. The last named species, brevirostris, 

 forms a transition from the second group to the first. Then the 

 range of the genus Atya would be divided into two parts, each con- 

 taining a separate group of the genus, and this peculiarity could be 

 explained by supposing that these two groups may be developed 

 separately from each other after the separation of the former con- 

 necting range of the genus. This conjecture agrees with the fact, 

 that Atya is the most extreme genus of Atyidce, and with its supposed 

 recent age. 



We know that some fresh-water animals are rapidly distributed 

 over great distances, either in the adult or in the larval state, but in 

 the Atyidce we know nothing of the means of distribution. 



Comparing the other Crustacean Decapoda we may say, that the 

 Atyidce have not been transported to great distances. Nor is it 

 probable that the eggs can endure a long time without water, or 

 that the larvse or the adult animals can leave the water for any 

 length of time. Transportation of the species of At%jida^, in either 

 the active or passive state, from one fresh-water system to another 

 over the land or through the air, cannot be supposed, at least over 

 great distances. Neither can the Atyidce live in the sea, so that the 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



most important topographical barriers to distribution would be 

 widely extending oceans and large tracts of land without fresh- 

 water. The Pacific Ocean forms a barrier of the first kind, while 

 the second may be partly connected with the climatic conditions of 

 the warmer parts of the world. Smaller areas of sea and land, 

 however, may be crossed by some forms, as is shown especially in the 

 distribution of some species of Caridina and Atya^^. The means of 

 distribution are certainly very limited, and therefore a great number 

 of species are confined to very narrow districts. 



Lastly, the ancient character of the family induces me to suppose 

 that there are also bionomic barriers, the Atyidce not being able to 

 immigrate to localities occupied by other fresh-water animals better 

 equipped for the struggle for existance. 



I regret very much that exact observations on the habits of the 

 species of Atyidce, on the biology and bionomy, are wholly absent. 

 It is very probable that the different genera and species on farther 

 examination will show some differences, especially that the best de- 

 veloped are more resistant to external influences. 



The conditions of geographical distribution of the Atyidce are as 

 follows : — 



1. The >4.<yi(ice cannot endure cooler climates. (^Climatic barriers.) 



2. They are true fresh-water animals. (Oceans and tracts of land 



without water form tajjogmphic barriers. ) 



3. Being animals of an ancient type, they are probably restricted 



by the occurrence of other fresh-water animals. (Bionomic 

 barriers.) 



4. The faculties of distribution are very limited. 



The Atyidce. are, therefore, confined to the fresh- waters of the 

 tropics and subtropics; the distribution of the genera and species, 

 especially of the more primitive ones, shows a remarkable character 

 of survival. Only Caridina and Atya are of a more recent charac- 

 ter, extending over continuous areas within the tropics. Because of 

 the antiquity of the family it has no relations among the recent forms 

 of the litoral regions of the tropical seas.^' 



•*" Caridina fvpus, ivycki, nilotica ; Atya scahra, moluccensis, spinipes. 



3' Such relations to the Atlantic, Itido-Pacific, and Western- American 

 regions (see Ortnaanu, .Tenaische Denkschr., VIII, 1894, p. 76) are not at all 

 evident, none of the well-known genera or species being limited by the borders 

 of one of these regions. 




1894.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 417 



November 6. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Forty-one perso)as present. 



A paper entitled " The Batrachia and Reptilia of the University 

 of Pennsylvania West Indian Exploration of 1891," by Edw. D. 

 Cope, was presented for publication. 



November 13. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty- nine persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "The Structure and Relationships of Ancodus," by W. B. Scott. 

 "A Supplementary Note to Mr. Johnson's List of Jamaica 

 Diptera," by T. D. A. Cockerell. 



November 20. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Ninety- five persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced : — 



Robert E. Peterson, Archibald Mclntyre, Samuel Jeanes and 

 Joseph Jeanes. 



A paper entitled "A New Jumping Mouse from the Pacific 

 Slope," by Samuel N. Rhoads, was presented for publication. 



Dr. John Macfarlane read a communication on the ]\Iovements 

 of Plants under Plates of Colored Glass. (No abstract.) 



November 27. 



The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Fifty- eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication: — 

 "The Osteology of Hyc^nodon," by William B. Scott. 

 "A New Insectivore from the White River Beds," by William B. 

 Scott. 



28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



"Some New Bees of the Genus Perdita," by T. D. A. Cockerell. 



"Pterodrilus, a Remarkable Discodrilid," by J. Percy Moore. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a 

 paper entitled "The Structure and Relationships of Ancodus," by 

 William B. Scott, in the Journal of the x\cademy. 



William L. Whitaker and J. Carroll McCaffrey were elected 

 members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: — 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



A STJPPLEMENTARY NOTE TO MR. JOHNSON'S LIST OF JAMAICAN 



DIPTERA. 



BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



I was very much pleased to receive from Mr. Johnson his list 

 of Jamaican Diptera, which will form a good foundation for a better 

 knowledge of the subject. The purpose of this supplementary note 

 is to point out a few omissions ; and also to add a few species which 

 were determined for me at the U. S. National Museum. 



CECIDOMYID^. 



Diplosis coccidarum CklL, Entom., 1892, p. 181. Kingston. 



CHIRONOMID^. 



(Ecacta furens Poey, Twns.. Jn. Inst. Jamaica, I, p. 381. 



PSYCHODIDJE. 



Psychoda sp. 



Will be elsewhere discussed by Dr. Williston. 



TiPULi:g^. 



Limnobia sp. incert., Balaclava (Ckll.),.in U. S. N. M. 



STRATIOMYID^. 



Cyphomyia n. sp. (not named). Williston, Canad. Ent., 1885, p. 125. 

 Pachygaster pulcher Lw. Mandevllle (Ckll.), in U. S. N. M. 



SYRPHID^. 



Pteroptila sp. (not cincta). Ckll., Jn. Inst. Jamaica, I, p. 74. 



See also a forthcoming paper on Syrphidse by Prof. Townsend. 



MUSCIDJE. 



Musca domestica L., Ckll., Jn. Inst. Jamaica, I, p. 56. Kingston. 



MICROPEZIDJE. 



Calobata fasciata Fb. New locality, Mandeville (Ckll.), in U. S. N. M. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



TRYPETIDJE. 



Trypeta (Acrotoxa) suspensa Lw., var. Mandeville (Ckll.), in U. S. N. M. 



PHORIDJE. 



Phora scalaris Lw. Mandeville (Ckll.), in U. S. N. M. 



HIPPOBOSCIDJE. 



Trichobius dugesii Twns. Ckll,, Jn. Inst. Jamaica, I, p. 98. 



With these, the known Jamaican Diptera amount to 125 species. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



A NEW JUMPING MOTJSE FEOM THE PACIFIC SLOPE. 

 BY SAMUEL N. RHOADS. 



Zapus trinotatus sp. nov. Type, ad $ , No. 360, Coll. of S. N. Ehoads. Lulu 

 Island (mouth of Frazer River), British Columbia, May 31st, 1892. Col. 

 by S. X. E. 



Description. — Size large, equalling Zapiis princeps from Colorado, 

 hut with a shorter foot. Colors above as in princeps, but darker, 

 the yellowish- gray suffusion on back and sides of that species being 

 replaced in trinotatus by brownish-fulvous ; the cheeks, ears, upper 

 head, circumocular region, and upper surface of tail much blacker. 

 The upper surface of wrist is black with fulvous anterior edging 

 reaching to foot. Lateral stripe separating upper and lower body 

 colors, dark fulvous, narrow, and reaching from hams to and around 

 front of fore legs, and nearly meeting across throat. The throat, 

 chin, belly, vent, and lower (inner) surfaces of legs are a clear soft 

 white. In the center of lower throat and on each side of the sternum 

 is a well-defined spot of fulvous about 8 mm. long and 3 ram. wide, 

 the pectoral spots being the larger and more strongly colored. The 

 fulvous of these spots does not reach base of hairs, their roots being 

 white, as in the hairs of the fulvous lateral stripe. 



Skull differing from any described form in its great relative width 

 and depth, to length, the zygomse being more flaring, the parietals 

 more convex, the incisive foramina larger and broader posteriorly, 

 the postpalatal notch more acuminate and indenting the palatal 

 bones as far as m. 2. The upper premolar is larger than in princeps 

 or hiidsonius, its crown rising to the grinding plane of the true 

 molars and becoming functional, bearing on its inner and posterior 

 rim a crescentine loop partially enclosing a central cusp whose base 

 lies on the outer anterior angle of the crown. In princeps, its 

 nearest ally, this tooth is not functional, or rarely so, its apex falling 

 below the grinding plane, and, as in kudsonius, consisting of a 

 simple peg- like process with the folding being more or less obsolete. 

 The lower molars of trinotatus are relatively larger than iu princeps 

 or kudsonius, the posterior loop of m. 1 and the second and last loops 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



of m. 2 projecting exteriorly beyond the outer edges of their inter- 

 vening loops, forming a very irregular outline not seen in the latter 

 species. In trinotatus the inferior m. 8 is relatively large, one-aud-a- 

 half times as long as wide and made up of a more complicated series 

 of loops than in the same tooth of its allies. The coronoid process 

 is much lengthened, wide across base, blunt and distinctly notched 

 at tip. The angular process of mandible is perforated by a single 

 minute foramen; in the other forms it is multi perforate or incised by 

 two, conspicuous, oblique slits. 



Measurements of I^/P^ (in millimeters). — Total length, 234; tail 

 vertebrae, 139; hind foot, 32. (Topotype, length, 235; tail, 142; 

 foot, 32.) Skull — Total length, 24; basilar length, 17.5; zygomatic 

 width, 13; nasal length, 9.8; interorbital constriction, 4.8; height 

 of cranium, 9.8; length of mandible, 12.5; width of mandible, 6.8. 



Two males of this species were taken at Lulu Island. Another 

 from Mason Co., Washington, is referable to it. 



Zapus trinotatus is the West Cascade representative of Z. princeps. 

 Several specimens of jumping mice taken at Lac La Hache, B. C. , 

 and at Vernon, in the same province, are referable to princeps, 

 whose range will probably be found to be limited to the East Cas- 

 cade and Rocky Mountain regions of the United States and of 

 southern British America. It is probable that the range of hud- 

 sonius will be found to reach far to the west in northern British 

 America. 



I am indebted to Mr. G. S. Miller, Jr. , for the loan of specimens 

 of Z. princeps for this study. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



ON A COLLECTION OF BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA FROM THE 



ISLAND OF HAINAN. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The collection on which the following notes are based was made 

 by the Rev. Francis Gilman, who sent them to Prof. Chas. S. Dolley. 

 Prof Dolley placed them in uiy hands for identification and descrip- 

 tion. 



Hyla arborea var. 



This form agrees in structural features with the true H\jla arborea 

 of Europe, but differs in coloration, not only from this but from the 

 two subspecies which are known from Eastern Asia (H. a. chinensis, 

 and S. a. japonica). 



The extended hind limb marks a point between the eye and the 

 nostril with the heel. The vomerine teeth are between the internal 

 nostrils, but the posterior borders of the fasciculi are behind a line 

 which connects their posterior borders. The diameter of the tym- 

 panum is about half that of the eye; and the interorbital width is 

 greater than that of an eyelid. The length of the head to a line 

 connecting the posterior borders of the tympana, enters the total 

 length 3.2 times. The fingers are slightly webbed, and the toes are 

 about two-thirds webbed. There is a heavy glandular fold from the 

 orbit to the shoulder. 



The color is uniform green above, and uniform pale (perhaps yel- 

 lowish) below. There are no spots of any kind anywhere. A light 

 brown band extends from the eye through the tympanum and disap- 

 pears about the shoulder. It has neither dark nor pale borders, and 

 is hence very indistinct. A similar band extends from the eye to 

 the nostril. Upper lip not pale bordered nor spotted. Total length, 

 40 mm.; do. of hind leg from* groin, 59 mm.; of hind foot, 27 mm. 



Holarclius doUeyanus sp. nov. Plate X, fig. 1. 



Scales in seventeen rows. Superior labials eight, all higher than 

 long, the fourth and fifth entering the orbit, the sixth in contact with 

 the inferior postocular only, the seventh in contact with the lower 

 postocular, and more extensively with the parietal. Loreal trape- 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



zoid; oculars 1-2; temporals 0-2. Interuasal mutual contact short; 

 parietals short, wide, truncate posteriorly, bounding both postoculars 

 posteriorly. Pregenials bounded by four labials, a little longer than 

 postgenials. Gastrosteges, 164, obtusely angulated ; anal entire; 

 urosteges, 36. 



Color above yellowish-brown; below brownish-yellow. No marks 

 on the head; on the superior surface of the body there are indistinct 

 cross bars, which consist of the dark edges of scales, at intervals of 

 two and three scales; they are not continued on the tail. Total 

 length, 400 mm. ; of tail, 58 mm. 



This species probably resembles the H. swiiihonis Gthr. (Rept. 

 Brit. India, p. 215, PI. XX, fig. E. ); but it differs materially in 

 having but one preocular; in the absence of an anterior temporal ; 

 in the contact of the anterior genial with four labials, and in the 

 longer postgenial. The color above is pale brown, not olive. 



The hemipenis of this species is smooth, and without spines, 

 flounces, or ruches; agreeing with that of the 11. ancorus, as figured 

 by me in the "American Naturalist," 1894, Plate XXVII, fig. 4. 

 These characters refer the genus to the Calamariiuse, with Oligodon, 

 etc. (See "American Naturalist,'" 1893, p. 480.) A character of 

 subordinate value seen in the hemipenis of H. ancorus, which is not 

 present in H. dolleyanus, is a shallow pocket on each side of the sul- 

 cus spermaticus. 



There is a rudimental right lung 5 mm. in length, communicating 

 with the trachea by foramen. No tracheal lung. 



This species is dedicated to my friend, the distinguished zoologist. 

 Dr. Chas. S. Dolley. 



Pareas moellendoriiii Bcsttger. 



A single male specimen gives me an opportunity of determining 

 the position of this curious genus. With some external resemblance 

 to the American Leptognathus, it combines not dissimilar dentition 

 and squamation; it is to be presumed that the habits are not dis- 

 similar. Examination of the hemipenis shows, however, that it is 

 really related to the Calamariinte, and to Slmotes. This organ is 

 without spines or ruches, and has only flat obtuse papillre on the 

 middle third of its length, the distal portion being smooth, with a 

 few feeble papilke at the apex. It is deeply bifurcate, the basal 

 portion being quite short. At the summit of the middle papillose 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



section is an oblique membranous Hounce with a lobate margin. 

 No tracheal lung ; and I could find no right lung. 



Amphiesma stolatum L. 



In this species the hemipenis displays the usual natricine charac- 

 ters of a basal hook, and small spines reaching to the apex, without 

 ruches or flounces. The spines are, however, coarser than in most 

 other species. The organ, moreover, is undivided, and with un- 

 divided sulcus, and as A. stolatum is the type of the genus, the 

 latter must be defined accordingly, and not as divided, as I inferred 

 from an examination of allied species which have been referred to 

 it by authors.' These supposed species of Amphiesma which I have 

 examined, which have divided hemipenis and diacranterian denti- 

 tion, are also characterized by the presence of fossje of the hemipenis 

 from the center of each of which a spiuule issues. These are the 

 Amph. figrinum and A. ceylonense, and they belong to my genus 

 Bothrodytes, which name should take the place of Amphiesma in ray 

 original Prodromus, 1. c. The genera of Natricinse with basal hooks 

 will then be as follows : — 



I. Fusiform types ; hemipenis and sulcus undivided. 

 Hemipenis simple ; anal divided ; 



One internasal, scales keeled ; Haldea B. & G. 



Two interuasals, scales keeled; Amphiardis Cope. 



Two internasals, scales smooth ; Virginia B. & G. 



Hemipenis with two apical papilhc; anal entire. 



Two internasals; scales keeled; Tropidodoninm Cope. 



II. Colubriform types. 



a. Hemipenis undivided. 



b. Dentition syucranteriau or isodont. 

 Anal plate entire; a loreal; Eutaniia B. & G. 



Anal plate divided; no loreal; Storeria B. & G. 



Anal plate divided; a loreal; Natrix Laur. 



Anal plate divided; a loreal; one prefrontal; Trimerodytes Cope 



bb. Dentition diacranterian. 

 Scales keeled; two internasals; Amphiesma D, & B. 



Scales smooth; one internasal ; Liodytes CoTpe. 



aa. Hemipenis divided. 



b. Dentition syncranterian. 



1 American Naturalist, 1893, p. 483. 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Hemipenis with two apical papillae; Ceratophnllus Cope. 



Hemipeuis without papilla; Diplophallas Cope. 



bh. Dentition diacrauterian. 



Hemipenis without papilla; Bothrodytes Cope. 



Trimerodytes balteatus gen. et sp. nov. Plate X, fig. 2. 



Char. gen. — Characters of Natrix, but the prefrontals fused. 

 The dentition is syncranterian or coryphodont. Hemipenis undi- 

 vided, sulcus simple. 



The single species on which this genus is proposed is represented 

 by an individual which, while apparently not very young, is at the 

 same time not fully grown. As a consequence the spinulfes of the 

 hemipenis are not ossified, appearing as fine flexible papillae. This 

 is the condition normal to immature snakes, as I have observed in 

 the genera Dryviobius, Bascanium, etc. 



Char, specif. — Scales in nineteen rows, smooth, except on the tail, 

 where all except the lateral rows are feebly keeled, and for a short 

 distance in front of the vent, where about three dorsal rows are also 

 weakly keeled. Each internasal longer than wide. Frontal rather 

 wide, with straight borders, the anterior a little longer than the 

 lateral. Parietal moderately elongate, angulate posteriorly, and 

 embracing only the superior postocular. Loreal higher than long ; 

 oculars 1-2 or 3; temporals 1-2. Superior labials nine. These are 

 differently distributed on opposite sides, so that the numbers may be 

 in other specimens, eight or ten. One labial forming most of inferior 

 border of orbit, which may be the fourth or fifth ; the angle of the 

 succeeding labial enters the orbit. On one side two plates represent 

 the single last upper labial on the other. Inferior labials nine; pre- 

 genials shorter than postgenials, and bounded by six labials. Gas- 

 trosteges , 202; anal, 1-1; urosteges, 84. 



Color black, crossed by white or pale yellow rings. These have 

 a width of half of a scale on the middle dorsal region, and widen 

 downward, covering two or three gastrosteges. They are frequently 

 broken on the middle line, the halves alternating, both on the back 

 and belly. The labials and oculars have yellow centers, and there 

 is a yellow line from near the angle of the mouth to near the middle 

 line above. A pair of yellow spots are on each side of the common 

 suture of the parietal plates. 



Total length, 377 mm. ; tail, 80 mm. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHIL,ADELPHIA. 427 



Bothrops erythrurus Cantor. 



Before leaving the Ophidia I add some remarks on the peuial 

 characters of some species which do not enter the present collection, 

 and which I have recently examined. 



The genus Anomalodon Jan (Lioheterodon Bouleuger, from a 

 nom. nud. of Dum. & Bibr.) has the hemipenis deeply divided and 

 covered with minute spines, without large hooks at the base. It is 

 to be referred to the Pseudaspidina? of my Prodromus, approaching 

 the genus Fseudaspis m. of S. Africa. Boulenger has shown that it 

 has the natricine hypapophyses. 



The Australian Dipsas fiisca Gray, differs from the genus Dipsas 

 in the absence of spines from the hemipenis ; the characters are 

 otherwise as in Dij^sas. I propose to name this new genus Liophal- 

 lus, with L. fiiscus as type. 



I propose to separate Drymohius percarinatus Cope from Drymo- 

 bius as the type of a distinct genus under the name of Cacocalyx. 

 It differs from that genus in the structure of the terminal half of 

 the hemipenis. Instead of the usual papillose calyces, there are 

 rows of spines on longitudinal folds, and the apex is covered with a 

 few large, shallow, smooth-edged calyces, which are separated from 

 the spinous portion by a continuous transverse fold, i. e. , the apex is 

 capitate. I have compared this organ with the corresponding ones 

 of Drymohius margaritiferas (type) ; D. pantherinvs ; D. reticula- 

 tus; D. boddaertii, and D. puleherrimus, where they are essentially 

 alike. The genus Cacocalyx is quite different from any other form 

 of Colubrinse. 



The Cyclophis major Guuth., presents the penial characters of the 

 Colubrinse, but has an especial peculiarity not shared by any other 

 species with which I am acquainted. In the proximal internal wall 

 of each calyx is a transverse comb of a few spines. These do not 

 graduate into the spines of the middle of the hemipenis, which are 

 well developed. The borders of the calyces are serrate to papillose. 

 As this type is clearly not referable to any known genus, I propose 

 to distinguish it by the name of Entechinus. It is evidently not 

 very nearly related to Liopeltis and Cyclophis of N. America. 



The genus Macroprotodon (Guich.) has the apical region of the 

 hemipenis calyculate, and the papillae at the angles of the calyces 

 are spinous (i.e., ossified) to near the tip. There are numerous 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



spines below the calyces. Hemipenis simple. The genus belongs to 

 the Dipsadinse. 



Psammodynastes has a divided penis which is spinous to the tip 

 and not calyculate. The spines are arranged in the branches in 

 oblique series, pinnate to the sulcus. Not knowing the structure in 

 Psammophis I cannot determine the affinity of the genus. 



In Osceola (elapsoidea) the penial characters are like those of 

 Ophibolus doliatus; i. e., the calyces are numerous and fringed. In 

 Ophihohis they are very few and have entire borders. I therefore 

 place 0. doliatus in Osceola. All the species of Ophibolus agree in 

 the character assigned. 



The Dromicus flavilatus Cope, of the S. E. coast regions of the 

 United States, has the penial structure of Rhadinaea Cope, and does 

 not belong to Dromicus. The organ is undivided, and the calyculate 

 region is capitate. We have here a case parallel to the genus 

 Liodi/tes, of which the type species was supposed to be a Helicops. 

 Both these Floridan forms turn out to be allies of types found on 

 the North American continent. 



Caiisus Licht. has the character of other Solenoglypha, i.e., 

 coarsely spinous at the middle, and calyculate above, and deeply 

 bifurcate. In C. rhombeatus, the only species examined, there is at 

 the middle of each branch a longitudinal fissure-like interruption of 

 the calyculate structure which contains feeble laminte on its sides and 

 fundus. The calyces are papillose. 



As regards the structure of the lungs, I have to add observations 

 on two species not previously examined. In Anomalodon madagas- 

 cariensis there is no tracheal lung nor auricle of the large left lung. 

 The rudimental right lung measures about 6 mm. In Psammo2:)liis 

 irregularis the structure is similar in the points mentioned, except 

 that I could not discover a rudimental right lung. 



Calotes versicolor Daud. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 429 



THE BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYL- 

 VANIA WEST INDIAN EXPEDITION OF 1890 AND 1891. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The species enumerated or described in the following pages were 

 collected in the course of a yachting expedition conducted by Pro- 

 fessor J. T. Rothrock, at that time Professor of Botany in the Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania, among the northern islands of the West 

 Indies. Collections were made at the following islands of the 

 Bahama group: New Providence, Eleuthera, Watlings Island, 

 Crooked Island, and Great luagua. They next touched at the east- 

 ern point of Jamaica, at Port Morant, and later at Port Luce at the 

 western extremity. The last collections were made at Gi'aud Cay- 

 man Island. The zoologist of the expedition was Mr. J. Percy 

 Moore, now Instructor in Comparative Anatomy and Zoology in the 

 University of Pennsylvania. To his care we are indebted for an 

 excellent series of the vertebrata of the islands visited. The 

 collection of Batrachia and Reptilia enumerated in the following 

 pages is one of the best ever made in the region. Collections from 

 Crooked Island and Inagua are especially welcome as but little was 

 previously known of their vertebrate fauna. Mr. Moore has fur- 

 nished me with notes of his observations, which are added in their 

 places, in quotation marks. 



New Providence. 



Trachyceplialus septentrionalis Tsch. 



" This large tree toad was met with abundantly everywhere in the 

 Bahamas and on Grand Cayman. About the sisal plantations on 

 New Providence great numbers could be taken, one or more being 

 concealed beneath the bases of the thick, fleshy leaves of almost 

 every plant. Their cry, when taken in the hand, is very startling, 

 having much of the force, quality, and pitch of the cry of a young 

 infant. They are said to spawn in the wells." 



Anolis principalis Linn. 

 Anolis sagrae D. & B. 



" This is one of the most widely distributed and abundant of 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894, 



Bahaman Anoles. The species is most characteristic of the more 

 northerly islands; of those visited by us they are very abundant on 

 New Providence, fairly swarming on Eleuthera, and less common on 

 the islands south and east. We failed to find this species on Fortune 

 Isl. and Great Inagua. They are equally at home on the ground 

 and in trees, preferring to seek their food on the former. They are 

 very pretty, when raised high on the fore-legs, with head elevated, 

 and body in a quiver of excitement, they pause to detect the move- 

 ment of an insect, upon wdiich they spring with much agility, and 

 devour in an instant. Their principal food is ants, which they seek 

 along fences, by the roadside, among the trees, and in and about 

 houses. Like the other Anoles they are fond of sunning themselves 

 and lie on stones or fences with the legs stretched lazily along the 

 sides of the body. On the island of Eleuthera, where they are 

 known to the natives by the name of Iquana, they are fond of lying 

 on the branches of bushes overhanging the fresh- water ponds. Out- 

 side of the Bahamas A. sagrce was met with in Jamaica, where they 

 are particularly abundant on the north shore about Port Lucea. " 



Anolis distichus Cope. 



" Common on New Providence, and less so on Eleuthera. Their 

 habits in general resemble those of A. sagrce, but the species is 

 especially common on the ground in banana and sisal plantations." 



Anolis oligaspis sp. nov. Plate XI, fig. 5. 



Tail little compressed at the base (mostly lost), and with a larger 

 median dorsal row of scales. Scales minute, a few dorsal rows 

 scarcely larger ; ventrals much larger, smooth. Tibia about as long as 

 head to posterior border of orbit. Occipital plate oval, larger than 

 ear opening (transversely divided in the single specimen), separated 

 from supraorbitals by one row of scales. The supraorbitals are in 

 contact, and they are continued as a row of two large scales only be- 

 tween the anterior one which borders the orbit, and the scales of the 

 can thus rostralis. The first pair of these two large scales is separated 

 by a single row of small scales; the second is separated by three 

 rows, of which the median is the largest, and continues to between 

 the nares. Thus at the second large scales there are five rows of 

 scales across the muzzle between the canthal scales, of which the 

 lateral and median are larger than the other two. All scales of 

 muzzle without keels; a shallow basin between large rows. Canthal 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



scales three. Supraoculars forming a disc of seven smooth scales, 

 which is in contact throughout its inner border with the supraorbital 

 series. Loreals in five rows. 



The muzzle is rather short, and the extended hind limb reaches to 

 the orbit. There are thirteen laminae beneath the second and third 

 phalanges of the third and fourth toes. 



The only specimen is a female, and it is greenish-gray with a 

 brown band on each side of the vertebral line, which is similar in color 

 to the sides. Throat with longitudinal series of blackish spots. 



Length to vent, 44 mm. ; do. to line of meatus auditorius, 14 mm. 

 Length of fore limb, 19 mm. ; do. of hind limb, 34 mm.; of hind 

 foot, 14 mm. 



This species is remarkable for the reduction in the number of its 

 head scales. It resembles no other species nearly, unless it be the 

 AnoUs krugii Peters, of Porto Rico, which I have not seen. There 

 are numerous discrepancies in the description of the latter. For in- 

 stance, in A. krugii, the ventral scales are keeled, the superciliaries 

 are separated by a row of scales; the supraorbitals are keeled; 

 there are four enlarged dorsal rows, and the color is quite different. 



Amiva thoracica Cope. 



"A common and conspicuous species, especially in the northernmost 

 of the Bahama Islands. Like its allies this is essentially a ground 

 inhabiting species, living among the loose coral boulders, in the 

 crevices of which secure shelter and concealment may be found. 

 They love to lie on stones basking in the warm sunshine, but are ever 

 alert and dart away like a flash, their course being indicated by a 

 blue streak. They are extremely difficult to catch, and although 

 very abundant on Cat Isl., and almost equally so on Eleuthera, only 

 a very few specimens were taken. 



TJngualia maculata D. & B. 

 Alsophis vudii Cope. 



Cat Island, 



Alsophis vudii Cope. Port Howe. 



Eleuthera. 



Anolis principalis L. Tarpum Bay. 



"A most beautiful species of essentially arboreal habits. Widely 

 distributed, but apparently not very common anywhere. They are 

 found among the smaller trees and bushes, leaping actively about 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



and performing many interesting acrobatic feats in pursuit of insects. 

 New Providence, Governors Harbour, and Tarpum Bay, Eleuthera, 

 Port Howe, Cat Isl., French Wells, Crooked Isl., and Fortune Isl." 



Anolis sagrae D. & B. Tarpum Bay. 

 Ungualia maculata D. & B. Tarpum Bay. 



' ' This species is common throughout the Bahamas visited by our 

 party, but the U. cana was found only on Great Inagua. The species 

 have similar habits. They are found during the day coiled up 

 under stones in the dryest, hottest places with such incompatible 

 company as centipedes, scorpions, and tarantulas, for they are very 

 mild tempered little snakes." 



Crooked Island. 

 Anolis principalis brunneus subsp. nov. Plate X, fig. 3. 



This form is allied to A. principalis. It has the same shaped 

 head, and the same squamation of the body, with similar proportions 

 of limbs. It falls outside the usual range of variation of A. princi- 

 palis in some points of squamation of the head, and in the color. 

 Thus the supraorbital rows of scales are continued forward, to be- 

 tween the nostrils, not reaching the canthus rostralis, and are in con- 

 tact throughout, except an occasional separation by a single scale. 

 Thus there are but 4-5 rows across the front instead of 7-8 in prin- 

 cipalis. There are but three loreal rows, the middle one consisting 

 of but one or two scales, while there are 5-7 in the A. principalis. 

 The six or seven supraocular plates are of subequal size and are 

 obscurely keeled, and are in immediate contact with the supraorbi- 

 tals ; in A. principalis they are of unequal size and are separated 

 from the supraorbitals by a series of small scales. On the inferior 

 side of the second and third phalanges of the fourth digit of the 

 posterior foot there are 18, 20 lamella?, in the A. principalis there 

 are 24. 



The color is different from that of any stage or variety of the A. 

 principalis. Above -and on the sides leather-brown. On each side 

 two dark brown stripes, the superior the wider, and sending cross 

 processes towards the middle line of the back. Posteriorly it is 

 broken up into a series of dark brown spots which become wider, and 

 finally unite in crossbars on the tail. Below light yellowish, the 

 throat indistinctly lined with darker. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 433 



Total length, 123 mm.; do. to vent, 43 mm.; to line of auricular 

 meati, 14 mm.; of fore limb, 15 mm.; of hind limb, 27 mm.; of 

 hind foot, 12 mm. 



Liocephalus carinatus Gray. 



Scales in 46 rows; 5-6 supraoculars; 3 introfrontonasal scales. 



"Generally distributed throughout the Bahamas; this species is 

 especially abundant on Crooked Isl. , were Anoles are comparatively 

 uncommon. The larger vegetation is very sparse here and loose 

 piles of coral rock near the shores are overgrown by a comparatively 

 open bush or scrub. It is here that the species abounds, scurrying 

 about on the ground and only rarely climbing into bushes. They 

 are very inquisitive creatures and come close up to look at one, then 

 running back a yard or two, pause again, and raising themselves on 

 the fore-legs, look about with elevated heads, a strange admixture of 

 curiosity and timidity, ready to run again at the slightest alarm. 

 While in running the Anoles only slightly raise the tail from the 

 ground, and the Ameivre drag it straight out behind, this species 

 elevates the tail high over the back, where it forms, pig-like, a 

 spiral coil, which peculiarity has gained for them the name of curl- 

 tail lizards. This species hides among the rock crevices, and large 

 numbei's take advantage of the burrows of the land crab ( Gecarci- 

 nus) as places of concealment. Though active, they are easily 

 caught in the hand, or by means of a grass noose. Their tails part 

 very readily and one is frequently rewarded for his pains with only 

 that squirming member. Highly carnivorous and very voracious 

 they apparently do not pause even at cannibalism, as was illustrated 

 once when a detached tail fell from my hand to the ground, where 

 its movements attracted the attention of an individual of the same 

 species, -which ran down from the rocks fully twenty -five feet away, 

 picked up the tail and bore it off. A few minutes later it was seen 

 with the tip of the still squirming tail of its neighbor hanging from 

 between its teeth. On another occasion a warbler which was shot and 

 had fallen to the ground, was found guarded by a large curl-tail 

 which seemed about to attack it." 



Great Inagua. 

 Anolis moorei sp. nov. Plate XI, fig. 4. 



Characters those of a prevalent West Indian type, i.e., tail com- 

 pressed and with a larger median superior row of scales, and ab- 



29 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



dominal scales smooth. The affinities are with the A. cy botes Cope, 

 of San Domingo, but the scales of the sides and most of the back 

 are twice as large, and the median dorsal rows are not abruptly 

 larger than those adjoining. Frontal ridges low, and median basin 

 shallow. Tibia shorter than length from muzzle to ear. Scales of 

 muzzle moderate, smooth. Superciliary rows separated by one row 

 of scales except for a short distance, where they are in contact. 

 Supraoculars 13-15, smooth, those of internal and adjacent rows 

 subequal, the whole separated from the supraorbitals by small scales 

 of different sizes. Occipital plate equal auricular meatus, separated 

 from supraorbitals by three rows. Five loreal rows ; four canthal 

 scales, the latter connected Avith anterior supraorbital Jjy two rather 

 large scales, which are separated by four rows of scales. In front of 

 the basin there are nine rows of scales counting across the muzzle, 

 of which the median row is much enlarged. In A. cybotes there are 

 but two or three rows in the frontal basin, and the middle row on the 

 muzzle is not enlarged. Twenty-four lamellae under the second and 

 third phalanges of posterior fourth toe. Fan of male reaching to 

 between humeri. Male with postanal plates rudimental. 



Color ashen, thickly mottled with small, black spots on the sides 

 and back, and upper surfaces of limbs. Spots smaller on nape. 

 A black band from nostril through lower eyelid to ear. Fan green- 

 ish-black in alcohol. In a smaller specimen, perhaps a female, as 

 the fan is small, there is a dark band across the supraoculars, and 

 the occiput is reticulated with black. The median dorsal region is 

 covered by a dark brown baud. 



Total length of male, 195 mm. ; do. of head to ear, 10 mm.; do. 

 to vent, 72 mm.; do. of fore limb, 31 mm.; do. of hind limb, 55 

 mm. ; of hind foot, 23 mm. 



This species differs from its nearest ally, the A. cybotes, in the 

 larger scales, the different arrangement of the muzzle plates, the 

 more numerous supraorbitals, and mostly widely in the coloration. 

 In size it exceeds that species. It is dedicated to my friend Mr. 

 J. Percy Moore, Instructor in Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in 

 the University of Pennsylvania, who captured the type specimens. 



"This handsome species was found only on Great Inagua where it 

 is quite common. They are distinguishable at sight, during life, 

 from, any species met with elsewhere by their comparatively large 

 size and pale gray-brown spotted color, which on occasion changes to 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



a more or less intense brown. Though very active in their move- 

 ments they are readily approached and captured, but have an un- 

 comfortable habit of seeking shelter among the thick clumps of a 

 very spiny Agave." 



Anolis cinnamomeus sp. nov. Plate XII, fig. 6. 



Tail compressed, with enlarged median dorsal row ; ventral scales 

 keeled. A few keeled median dorsal rows nearly equal to ventrals, 

 but soon graduating into the smaller laterals. Caudal scales keeled. 

 Tibia shorter than head to ear ; extended hind leg reaching to eye. 

 Fifteen laminae on second and third joints of posterior fourth toe. 

 Occipital plate equal to auricular meatus, and separated from supra- 

 orbitals by three roAvs of scales. Supraorbitals in contact with each 

 other, the anterior separated from the canthal row by two large scales. 

 Between the latter is a shallow basin containing two series of scales. 

 Three canthal scales. Between them on the front part of the muzzle 

 may be counted seven scales, of which the median is large, being one 

 of a median longitudinal row. Scales of muzzle smooth. Supra- 

 ocular few, only six large ones and a few small ones at their external 

 border ; not, or faintly keeled, and separated from the supraorbitals 

 by a single row of small scales. Five and four rows of loreal scales. 

 The muzzle is of intermediate length. 



Color above brown ; sides pale brown ; inferior surfaces pale. 

 Back, sides and throat speckled with rather coarse black dots, which 

 are on the back rather frequently fused into short lines both longitu- 

 dinal and transverse. A black spot on the loreal region ; the lower 

 eyelid dark. Top of muzzle in front of orbits pale. 



Length from muzzle to vent, 45 mm. ; to posterior line of ears, 13 

 mm.; of fore limb, 19 mm.; of hind limb, 24 mm.; of hind foot, 

 15 mm. 



This rather small species is allied to the A. cybotes and the A. 

 moorei. It agrees with the latter in the character of its scales, but 

 differs from both in the small number of both the supraocular plates, 

 and the subdigital lamellae, and in the contact of the supraorliital 

 plates, and the reduced number of the scales on the muzzle. It is 

 darker colored than the A. moorei, but is similarly speckled with 

 black. 



Two specimens were collected by Mr. Moore, which from the small 

 size of their fans I suspect to be females. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Liocephalus sp. 



"A distinct Liocephalus, probably L. schreibersii Gray, was 

 plentiful on Great Inagua, but the specimens have been mislaid. It 

 is a rather smaller, more active soecies which carries the tail elevated 

 but not curled." 



TIngualia cana Cope. 



On comparison of this species with others of the genus I have 

 occasion to reassert the distinctness of the U. Indiana Cope from the 

 U. macxilata with which it is united by Boulenger in the Catalogue 

 of Snakes in the British Museum, Vol. I. In the original descrip- 

 tion (Proceed. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1879, p. 273), the statement is 

 made that the scales are in twenty-seven longitudinal rows, which 

 they are at some points ; but at the stoutest part of the body they 

 are in twenty-nine rows. In U. maculata they never exceed 25 rows, 

 and are usually 23. There are no interparietal plates ; these are 

 always present in the TJ. maculata. 



In the genus Ungualia the anal claws are of irregular occurrence. 

 In seven specimens before me they are present in only three. The 

 same is true of the genus Charina, also usually regarded as peropo- 

 dous. In two specimens before me they are wanting. 



Amiva leucomelas sp. nov. Plate XII, fig. 8. 



Ten rows of abdominal scales. Caudal scales oblique, diverging 

 backward and outward on each side of the median series, keeled, 

 the keels parallel to the middle line. Nostril within the border of 

 the internasal plate. Nasal triangular, small ; one very large loreal 

 plate; one preocular plate descending to the fourth superior labial; 

 four suborbitals in contact with the labials except the fourth. Six 

 narrow superciliaries ; four supraorbitals; frontal not transversely 

 divided. Two parietals on each side of the interparietal, which they 

 do not quite equal in length, while each is about equal in size to the 

 rather elongate interparietal. Two rows of small, smooth postparie- 

 tals. 'Gular scales nearly uniform; some larger ones at the middle 

 of the mesoptychium. Dorsal scales coarsely granular, round. 



Three rows of plates on the forearm, the external much the widest; 

 one row on the humerus with a much smaller row on each side of it; 

 the former not continuous with the large row of the forearm. Three 

 large and a few small preaual plates, which are continuous with the 




1894.] naturaIj sciences of philiAdelphia. 437 



abdominals. Femoral pores thirteen. Thirty-four transverse rows 

 on the abdomen. 



. Median dorsal region brown, becoming blackish and then black 

 anteriorly, the lateral border pale brown posteriorly, but becoming 

 white anteriorly. A broad, black lateral band from orbit to above 

 femur, bounded below^ by a narrow white stripe. Head brown on 

 sides and above; limbs lead colored above. Inferior surfaces bluish- 

 white ; tail with the scales darker at the base than elsewhere. Near 

 the base of the tail the darker color is leaden, but at the middle and 

 beyond it passes to bluish and blue ; and the pale portion varies in 

 a corresponding way to pale blue. No black lines on posterior face 

 of femur. 



Length to vent, 57 mm.; do. of fore limb from axilla, 16 mm.; 

 do. of hind limb, 35 mm. ; of hind foot, 21 mm. 



This very handsome species is allied to the A. polops Cope of St. 

 Croix, but differs in several respects. The median dorsal scales are 

 not enlarged, as in that species, and there are five fewer femoral 

 pores, and the lateral caudal scales are keeled, not smooth. The 

 coloring is quite different. In the A. polops the dorsal region is 

 olive-gray, and there are three white longitudinal lines on each side 

 and a pair of black lines on the posterior face of the femur. 



"This handsome species was found only on Great Inagua where they 

 occur very commonly. The colors are very bright during life and 

 this fact, as well as their activity, makes them very pretty objects to 

 watch. Much smaller than Ameiva thoracica, which was not found 

 on Inagua, and perhaps even more active, they are extremely diffi- 

 cult to catch, and specimens were only secured by recourse to the 

 shot-gun. They frequent the paths and roadsides and the rocks 

 about the shores." 



Jamaica. 

 Bufo agua Daud. 



"This great toad is very common in the meadows along the streams 

 about Lucea, Jamaica, where they are called frogs. Quite nocturnal 

 in habit they spend the day in burrows beneath stones and rubbish, 

 and at night come forth to splash through the water and rank grass 

 along the shores of streams. When the light from a bulls-eye 

 lantern is flashed on them they crouch and attempt to conceal them- 

 selves. In the water they are quite at home and swim easily, but 

 on land progress in a very lumbering way, the legs seeming too weak 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



to propel the heavy body. Young ones were found concealed under 



rubbish." 



« 



Hylodes martinicensis D. & B. 



Port Lucea and Blue Peak. 

 Lithodytes lentus Cope. 



A single example of this handsome black and orange tree- toad 

 was taken at Port Lucea clinging to a shrub overhanging a stream. 



Xiphocercus valenciennei D. & B. 



Port Morant. 



"This fine species was rarely met with and was collected only at 

 Port Morant and Port Antonio, Jamaica. At the former place 

 lizards of all kinds are uncommon owing to the abundance of the 

 mongoose, which animal has exerted a marked influence on the 

 reptilian fauna of Jamaica. Snakes of all kinds have been ex- 

 terminated so completely that we failed to find a single specimen. 

 The same is true of the larger ground- inhabiting lizards. 



The present species lives on and about the trunks of cocoanut 

 trees." 



Anolis grahamii Gray. 



Port Morant; Port Antonio; Port Lucea. 



"Notwithstanding the mongoose, this species is generally abundant 

 about the coast of Jamaica, and on Grand Cayman, though noticeably 

 more so in thickly settled districts, where they are familiarly known as 

 the clucking lizards, and welcomed into houses, over the walls and ceil- 

 ings of which they run with apparent ease. Their habits were studied 

 about Kingston and elsewhere. At midday in the hot sunshine along 

 fences they are seen at their best. They extend and retract the 

 brilliant scarlet goitre in a regular rhythmical way as a flattened 

 fold, the body meantime passing through a remarkable series of color 

 transitions from rich brown or almost a chocolate color, through pale 

 browns, grays, dull greens to bright blue-greens, some individuals 

 retaining more of one color, some more of another, sometimes plain, 

 sometimes spotted, until one almost wearies in counting the variations 

 and changes. The colors are more or less related at any moment to 

 the colors of surrounding objects. This is a very active lizard which 

 runs with great swiftness along the fences and branches of trees, often 

 taking flying sidelong leaps of surprising length, but clinging surely 

 by means of the adhesive disks, by which they are enabled to cling 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



even to such smooth surfaces as window panes. At Port Morant 

 they were especially abundant in the cocoanut groves concealing 

 themselves, when alarmed, beneath the matting which envelops the 

 bases of the leaf petioles. Their food, in the vicinity of Kingston, 

 is largely ants and wood ticks." 



Anolis flabellatus sp. nov. Plate XII, fig. 7. 



Allied to A. grahamii but with the abdominal scales smooth, the 

 supraorbital scales continued as a distinct series of larger scales to 

 the canthus rostralis; the scales of the muzzle not keeled. The 

 occipital scale is about as large as the auditory meatus, and it is 

 separated from the supraorbitals by one or two rows of scales instead 

 of four or five as in the A. grahamii. Supraorbitals separated by 

 one row of scales ; supraorbitals, 13-14 keeled, and of various 

 sizes, becoming smaller externally. The frontal ridges are not 

 elevated as in the A. lineatopus Gray, but the front is flat, nearly as 

 in A. grahamii. Three scales separate the anterior supraorbital 

 from the canthus rostralis, which itself is marked by five scales. 

 Seven rows on the muzzle between the canthus ; ten rows in the A. 

 grahamii. Twenty- one lamellae under third and fourth phalanges 

 of posterior fourth toe. The tibia is shorter than from the muzzle 

 to the ear, and the extended hind foot reaches to the eye. The 

 dorsal and lateral scales are of equal size. The fan is large, extend- 

 ing posterior to the axillae in males. 



Color above brown, lighter on the sides, and marbled on both 

 regions with darker brown. Below pale with darker reticulations on 

 the chin. Color of fan not dark. 



Length to vent, 46 mm. ; to ear, 13.5; do. of fore limb, 21 mm.; 

 of hind limb, 36 mm. ; of hind foot, 15 mm. 



This species need only be compared with the A. grahamii, to 

 which it is allied. Besides the characters mentioned, it is smaller, 

 and is of a different color; the A. grahamii being more or less green, 

 and not tending to brown. It resembles more strongly the A. 

 grahamii conspersus of Garman, which is rather intermediate be- 

 tween the A. flabellatus and the A. grahamii. The A. g. con- 

 spersus is as large as the latter, and is peculiar in coloration. 



From Port Morant and Port Lucea; abundant. 



"A slender, pretty species found on the north shore of Jamaica at 

 Port Antonio and Port Lucea. It is not very common, and is found 



• 




440 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



chiefly among the dense masses of aerial roots which hang from the 

 trunks and branches of the Indian fig (Ficus indica), where it drives 

 the would-be collector almost to distraction by quietly slipping into au 

 ever present crevice just as his hand descends on the spot where, in 

 his mental image, it still rests. Its slender form and brown color 

 admirably fit it to its habitat. This species was also found just within 

 the entrance of a cave at Port Antonio. ' ' 



Anolis sagrae D. & B. 

 Port Lucea. 



Aristelliger praesignis Hallow. 



Port Morant. 



A small gecko, perhaps the young of this species, was taken by 

 Mr. Moore at Port Morant, about January 12, 1891. Its colors are 

 much more elegant than those of any specimen either adult or young 

 which I have seen, but the scale characters are "the same. The color 

 is light fawn, darker on the head; a dark band through the eye; lips 

 whitish spotted. A black scapular spot with a small, yellow center 

 on each side; behind it a delicate vertical yellow line. Narrow 

 vertical yellow lines on the sides, and indistinct brownish dorsal 

 cross-bars behind the middle of the length. Length of head and body 

 27 mm. 



Sphaerodactylus goniorhynchus sp. nov. 



■ Lateral and anterior surfaces of rostral plate separated from 

 superior surface by a curved, solid right angle, which is not con- 

 tinued posteriorly. Dorsal scales about equal to ventrals, acute, im- 

 bricate, keeled. Scales of top of head similar but smaller. Ven- 

 tral and pectoral scales similar to dorsal, keeled. Tail covered 

 everywhere with similar scales, whose free apices give it a chaffy ap- 

 pearance. Eyelid covered from middle of front to superior posterior 

 border with large, chaffy scales which are larger than those on the 

 front. Upper part of rostral plate split. Labials \. Muzzle 

 short, its length from orbit equaling from orbit to auricular meatus. 

 Color dark marone above, below light reddish-brown, the colors 

 blending on the sides of the body, but separated by a sharp undulat- 

 ing line on each side of the tail. An indistinct, undulating pale 

 line extends from the neck on each side of the back and dorsal 

 surface of the tail, which sends short processes inward, especially on 

 the tail. This line is only clearly seen in the dead animal when it 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



is ill spirits. Gular region paler, uniform. Total length, 43 ram.; 

 length of body and head, 23 mm. 



This species is well distinguished by the form of the end of the 

 muzzle, and by the keeled ventral scales. The superciliary scales 

 are also entirely peculiar, as they present several free points upwards 

 and backwards, in place of the spine- like process found in the other 

 species. Port Antonio. 



Grand Cayman. 

 Trachycephalus septentrionalis Tsch. 

 Anolis grahamii conspersus Garman. 



"Very common on Grand Cayman, where they occur in great 

 numbers about the gardens and banana orchards." 



Liocephalus varius Garman. 



"Found only on Grand Cayman, where it is common among stones 

 by the roadside, and in stone walls. Habits similar to L. carinatus." 



Aristelliger praesignis Hallow. 



"Only one specimen taken on Grand Cayman. It clung so firmly 

 to the tree trunk on which it rested that much of the skin of the 

 bark was torn away in removing it. The habits of this gecko are 

 similar to those described for its allies ; while its sluggishness and 

 stupidity distinguish it sharply from the other lizards here described." 



Alsophis angulifer caymanus Garman. 



' ' This snake is very common on Grand Cayman, and I recall one 

 stone wall by the roadside that was fairly alive with them. On the 

 top stones many were lying warming in the sunshine, while from 

 crevices everywhere heads protruded. Their movements and general 

 actions resemble what is most familiar in our garter snakes." 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES X, XI, AND XII. 



Plate X. 



Fig. 1. Holarehus dolletjanus Cope, about 1.5 natural size. 

 Fig. 2. Trimerodytes balteatus Cope, about 2.5 nat. size. 

 Fig. 3. Anolis principalis brunneus Cope, about 2.5 nat. size. 



Plate XI. 



Fig. 4. Anolis moorei Cope, about 2. 5 nat. size. 

 Fig. 5. Anolis oligaspis Cope, about 2.5 nat. size. 




442 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1894, 



Plate XII. 



Fig. 6. Anolis cinnamomeus Cope, about 2.5 natural size. 

 Fig. 7. AnoUs flahellatus Cope, about 2.5 nat. size. 

 Fig. 8. Amiva leucomelas Cope, about 2.5 nat. size. 



Lettering. 



a, Head, from above; b, do. side; e, do. below; d, scales, from the 

 side; e, median dorsal scales; /, anal region; g, hind leg and 

 anal region ; h, posterior foot from below. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



December 4. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Sadsbury Steatite, " by Theodore D. Rand, 

 was presented for publication. 



December 11. 

 The President, General Isaac J. WiSTAlt, in the Chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



The death of J. Bernard Brinton, M. D., a member, was an- 

 nounced. 



December 18. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-five persons present. 



December 25. 

 The President, General Isaac J. Wistar, in the Chair. 



Thirty-three persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a 

 paper entitled "The Osteology of Hysenodon," by Wm. B. Scott, 

 in the Journal of the Academy. 



The following was adopted : — 



REPORT OF the COMMITTEE ON THE HAYDEN MEMORIAL 

 GEOLOGICAL AWARD. 



The Committee appointed to recommend to the Academy a suit- 

 able recipient of the Hayden medal for this year begs leave to 

 report that in examining the claims of the many savants from those 

 countries which have not yet been represented by an award, the 

 attention of your Committee was naturally arrested by Gabriel 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1894. 



Auguste Daubree, of France, whom it has selected by unanimous 



vote for the honor. 



Your Committee takes great pleasure in recommending that the 



Hayden Medal of this year be awarded by the Academy of Natural 



Sciences to Professeur Gabriel Auguste Daubree, Membre de I'lnsti- 



tut et Grand Officier de la Legion d'Honneur. 



Very respectfully, 



J. P. Lesley, 

 Bekj. Smith Lyman, 

 Angelo Heilpein, 

 Theo. D. Rand, 

 Persifor Frazer, 



Chairman. 



• 



Gabriel Auguste Daubree was born in Metz, June 25, 1814, 

 and is therefore now in his eighty-first year. He graduated from 

 the Ecole Polytechnique in 1834 and immediately received a com- 

 mission to assist in the geological exploration of Algeria. He was 

 called to the chair of geology in Strasbourg in 1839 and was Dean of 

 its Scientific Faculty in 1852. He was appointed Engineer-in-Chief 

 in 1855. In 1861, upon the death of the distinguished Cordier, he 

 was selected to replace him in the Museum of Natural History, and 

 as Professor of Mineralogy in the Ecole des Mines as well as in the 

 Academic des Sciences in Paris. 



He was Director of the Ecole nationale des Mines for a number 

 of years, and while filling this responsible office was invariably 

 courteous and generous in allowing foreigners the privilege of using 

 its collections and library, and in assisting them in all ways to attain 

 what they sought. 



His writings have been numerous, original, and important, and 

 it is to his genius and patience that we owe much of our insight into 

 the intricate causes of crystalline structure, and the creation of the 

 branch of experimental geology. 



In 1841 he published his "Amas des minerals d'etain," in which 

 a new theory was announced of the origin of the puzzling distribu- 

 tion of tin in its ores. In 1846 he published researches in Norway, 

 and a theory of the occurrence of gold in the Rhine valley. 



At intervals he published a long series of memoirs of exceptional 

 originality and interest, among which may be mentioned "Arsenic 




1894.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



in combustible minerals," "Volcanic rocks," "Sea water," "Thermal 

 springs and metallic lodes," "Chemical composition of planetary- 

 bodies," and finally, the crown of his labors, "La geologie experi- 

 mentale," "Recherches experimentales sur les forces qui ont du 

 produire le metamorphisme" (1857-1860), and the classic work of 

 recent years "Les eaux souterraines. " 



He has also published a valuable work "Experiences synthetiques 

 relative aux meteorites," and "Classification adoptee par le Musee de 

 I'Histoire Naturelle de Paris." 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




446 PBOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



A KEW INSECTIVORE FROM THE WHITE RIVER BEDS. 

 BY W. B. SCOTT. 



The American Tertiary formations have yielded a surprisingly 

 scanty insectivorous fauna. Many names have, it is true, been pro- 

 posed, but for the most part, these names have been given to such 

 fragmentary and uncharacteristic specimens, that they remain mere 

 nomina nuda. Only one family, the Leptictida', is at all well under- 

 stood, and the ancestors of even the peculiarly American recent types 

 are still quite unknown. 



During the past summer Mr. M. S. Farr, of the Chicago Univer- 

 sity Expedition to the White River bad lands of South Dakota, had 

 the good fortune to discover an insectivorous type new to the Ameri- 

 can Tertiary fauna, and representing an undescribed genus. For 

 the opportunity of studying and describing this very interesting spe- 

 cimen, I am indebted to the kindness of Professor Baur, to whom I 

 desire to express my very sincere thanks. 



The specimen consists of the facial region and mandible, Avith nearly 

 complete dentition, of a small animal, which upon examination, proves 

 to be a member of the family Soricidce, or shrews, though not alto- 

 gether agreeing with the definition of that family as usually given. 

 This is the first of the family to be found in any Tertiary horizon of 

 North America. 



The genus may be called Protosorex and is defined as follows: 

 Maxillary dentition much as in Sorex, hut with less reduced third 

 molar and smaller internal cusps on last premolar. Mandible with 

 four minute teeth between the molars and the large, procumbent 

 incisors. In all other known Soricidce the number of such teeth is 

 two, except in one species of Myosorex, which sometimes has three. 



The species, P. crassus, sp. nov., is characterized by the rather 

 short and broad face, vaulted palate, straight alveolar border, and 

 by the relatively large size. 



The type specimen is of an individual rather advanced in life, and 

 all the facial sutures have disappeared. The upper surface of the 

 fronto-nasal region is ^tiaighter, broader, and more flattened than 

 in the recent species of Sorex. The zygomatic arches have already 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



completely disappeared, the suborbital portion of the maxillary ter- 

 minating in a rounded surface. The infraorbital foramen is very 

 large and occupies the usual position above P^ and 5^. In advance 

 of p4 the muzzle is quite sharply constricted and narrowed. The 

 palate is quite deeply vaulted and concave transversely ; between the 

 molars of the two sides it is broad, but narrows rapidly in front of 

 them. No foramina or failures of ossification are visible in the 

 palate. The posterior nares have a similar shape and position to 

 those of Sorex, but differ in the raised and thickened front border. 

 The anterior portion of the muzzle is slender and tubular and the 

 narial opening is small and terminal. The horizontal ramus of the 

 mandible is proportionately stout and bears a single conspicuous 

 mental foramen beneath the first molar. Condyle and angle are 

 missing. 



In the upper jaw the crowns of the anterior teeth are broken away, 

 leaving only the fangs. The first incisor was large and compressed 

 like that of Sorex, but it is impossible to determine whether it had 

 the basal cusp found in that genus. This is followed by four minute, 

 single-fanged teeth, the homologies of which are doubtful. The last 

 premolar is as large as, though much less complicated than a molar; 

 it resembles the corresponding tooth of Sorex, but the internal cusp 

 (deuterocone) is relatively less expanded and basin-shaped. The 

 molars have the same construction as in Sorex; the last molar is 

 much the smallest of the series, though less reduced than in the 

 modern genus. 



The large lower incisor has lost most of its crown, but it w'ould 

 appear to be less entirely procumbent than in Sorex. Behind this 

 tooth come four minute and closely crowded teeth, with compressed, 

 chisel- like crowns, of which the first and the fourth are slightly 

 larger and more prominent than the others. As in the upper jaw, 

 the molars are like those of Sorex. 



Measurements. 



Length of upper dental series, exclusive of 1st incisor JNI. 0.009 



" " molar series .... .004 



" lower dental series, exclusive of incisor . .007 



" " molar series .... .005 



Length of palate . . . . . • .010 



Breadth of palate at 5^ .004 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Measurements — (continued). 



Breadth of face at orbits ..... M. .008 



p3 .005 



Depth of maudible at 5^ .0025 



Protosorex represents the most primitive type of Soriddce which 

 has yet been discovered, as is shown by the large number of teeth 

 which it has retained. It is, however, not the most ancient form of 

 shrew known,, the phosphorites of Quercy, which are as old or older 

 than the White River beds, having yielded species of Sorex {Amphi- 

 sorex Filhol), This points to a very high antiquity of the family. 




1894.] NATURAL SOIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



PTERODRILTJS, A REMARKABLE DISCODRILID. 

 BY J. PERCY MOORE. 



Among a number of additional new species of Discodrilidse, which 

 have come into the writer's possession, are two which differ so remark- 

 ably from the known type of structure of these interesting parasites 

 that an immediate description of their peculiarities seems desirable. 

 A new genus, Pterodrilus, is proposed for them, characterized by the 

 presence on certain of the post-cephalic somites of paired dorsal aj)- 

 pendages, chiefly developed from the muscular layers of the body 

 walls. The genus resembles American Discodrilids hitherto de- 

 scribed in the presence of a second pair of vasse deferentiaj in the Vlth 

 post-cephalic somite, in addition to the pair in the Vth somite, which 

 alone is present in the Eui'opean Branchiobdella. Both pairs open to 

 the exterior in the Vlth somite by the usual form of efferent apparatus. 

 The dorsal and ventral cuticular jaws are similar to one another, and 

 each is normally bi-laterally symmetrical, though not infrequent varia- 

 tions affecting this symmetry are notable. The external openings of 

 the anterior pair of nephridia are united in a common muscular vesicle 

 having an outlet on the dorsum of somite III. 



In the two species at present known the spermatheca is a simple 

 sac with glandular and muscular walls, opening on the ventral 

 middle line of the Vth somite. The atrium shows the usual division 

 into bursa, penis sheath, and glandular atrium, the vasa deferentia 

 opening into the latter, which is short and stout. The ovaries are 

 attached to the posterior face of the septum VI-VII, and the 

 ovipores are situated between the major and minor annuli of 

 somite VII. 



As usual in the Discodrilidie the nervous system consists of a 

 doubly bi-lobulate supra-oesophageal ganglion, united by partly gang- 

 lionic ci renin- oesophageal connectives with the ventral nerve cord, 

 which develops three pairs of deeply bilobed cephalic ganglia, eight 

 pairs of double post-cephalic ganglia, and a posterior nerve mass 

 composed of three fused pairs of double ganglia, making a total of 

 eleven post-cephalic ganglia, corresponding to the eleven bi-annulate 

 body somites. 

 30 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



The vascular system presents the usual supra-intestinal vessel with 

 its anterior portion modified to form a heart, a supra-neural vessel, a 

 peri-enteric blood sinus, four pairs of vascular arches in the head, 

 one pair each in the 1st and Vllth post-cephalic somites, and one 

 pair uniting the longitudinal trunks posteriorly in the IXth and Xth 

 somites. Two pairs of cephalic, and eight or ten of caudal, adhesive 

 glands are present, as well as circum-oral and hypodermal mucous 

 glands. An inconspicuous clitelluni is developed on somites VI and 

 VII. No salivary gland, such as is found in Bdellodrilus illumina- 

 tus, is present. 



Regarding the function of the dorsal organs there is little to say. 

 A priori one would expect them to be respiratory, but the apparent 

 entire absence of bloodvessels, which are unrevealed after a careful 

 study of sections, would tend to throw strong doubt upon such an 

 interpretation. Irregular spaces are evident here and there between 

 the muscle fibres, but these appear to be continuous with the inter- 

 muscular spaces which are developed betweeu the circular and longi- 

 tudinal muscle fibres of the body walls, and have not been traced 

 into any communication with the body cavity. Until an opportunity 

 is afforded of studying living examples in their proper habitat, and 

 observing the uses to which these organs are put, no opinion can be 

 vouchsafed. 



The two species are ot relatively minute size, and were at first re- 

 garded as larval stages of another Discodrilid, until sections revealed 

 the presence of perfectly mature spermatozoa and ova, some of which 

 latter were in the course of extrusion through the ovipores. 



Pterodrilus alcicornus sp. nov. 



PI. XIII, fig. 1, profile of entire animal, from a mounted specimen 

 about half extended, showing also the course of the alimentary 

 canal, the spermatheca, atrium, and vasa deferentia, the position 

 of the ovary and ovipores of the right side, and the dorsal gland in 

 the Vlllth somite. X 145. 



Fig. 1«, one of the jaws. X 640. 



Fig. 16, transverse section through the anterior part of the Vlllth, 

 post-cephalic somite, passing obliquely into the ventral part of the 

 Vllth ; the ovary is cut on one side, and the muscular septum 

 on the other; the intestine and nerve cord are shown ; a, intermus- 

 cular space. X 200. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Fig. If, a longiti'dinal section uear the median line of the dorsal 

 organ of somite VIII; a, intermuscular spaces. X 500. 



Fig. Id, section of a terminal portion of a dorsal appendage. 

 X 640. 



In this species, which is described from sections and specimens 

 mounted entire, the body is terete throughout, or owing to the in- 

 crease in thickness of the dorsal walls of the major annuli, appears 

 somewhat compressed at these points. The somites VI, VII, and 

 VIII are of about equal diameter, those anterior and posterior to them 

 tapering respectively toward the head and caudal disk. Bi-annula- 

 tion of the body somites is very marked. The head is rather slen- 

 der, and consists of a circum-oral anuulus divided into thick entire 

 dorsal and ventral lips, and two similar post-oral rings. The caudal 

 sucker is a muscular disk of simple form, and about the diameter of 

 the 1st post-cephalic somite; its axis coincides with that of the body 

 somites. 



Dorsal organs are highly developed in this species on post-cephalic 

 somites III, IV, V, and VIII. Somites VI and VII, and in less 

 degree, II also, exhibit slight dorsal thickenings of the body muscu- 

 lature. On the dorsum of the major aunulus of somite III the 

 body walls rise into a high compressed transverse ridge or plate, 

 which fades out on the sides of the somite, and is produced laterally 

 into a conspicuous, forwardly projecting trilobed wing, the anterior 

 division of which flares outward and extends far forward over 

 somite II, usually ending in a slightly bifid expansion. The remain- 

 ing lobes are simple conical tines, which project upward and slightly 

 outward. The two wings flare so strongly that the distance be- 

 tween their apices is about Ih times the diameter of the somite. 

 Their shape is very strongly suggestive of the antlers of a young 

 moose, hence the name given to this species. The generic name was 

 also suggested by this species, in which the dorsal organs have a 

 wing- like aspect not seen in the other species. 



The dorsal appendage of the Vlllth somite is also highly de- 

 veloped, and similar to the one just described. Its lateral wings, 

 however, are less conspicuous, and are directed posteriorly instead of 

 antei'ioi'ly, and also flare outwai'd more conspicuously. The whole 

 organ is strongly concave behind, while that on the Ilird somite is 

 similarly concave before. A small gland, closely resembling a clitellar 

 gland, is sometimes present (in two out of three series of sections) 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



embedded in the base of the organ on each side. On tlie IVth 

 and Vth somites the appendages are less highly developed, but are 

 similar, the low dorsal ridges bearing on each side a pair of slender 

 and simple cylindrical processes. 



An examination of figures lb, Ic, and Id will make the structure 

 of the characteristic dorsal appendages clear. The transverse dorsal 

 ridges are built up chiefly of short, thick, longitudinal muscle fibres, 

 which extend between the anterior and the posterior covering of 

 hypodermis. Spaces partly filled with a connective tissue network 

 are observable among the fibres, and a similar more extensive space 

 (a, figs. 16, Ic), separates the muscles of the dorsal organ from the 

 longitudinal muscles of the body walls. A few vertical muscle fibres 

 are also developed in the lateral margins of the ridges. Over this 

 firm muscular basis the hypodermis, with the circular muscle layer, 

 extends, and this alone, with a core of loose, spongy tissue, probably 

 derived from the subderiiial connective tissue, forms the terminal 

 processes and lobes, (fig. Id.) In the formation of these dorsal 

 appendages, from the body walls, it would seem that the loose fold of 

 hypodermis and circular muscle fibres that rises freely from the longi- 

 tudinal muscle fibres is pinched up, as it were, at several points, from 

 which the skin and connective tissue underlying it proliferate to 

 form the marginal processes, while the space remaining becomes filled, 

 save for a few narrow clefts, with muscle fibres that proliferate from 

 the ends of the longitudinal muscle fibres of the body walls at the 

 points where these meet the hypodermis. 



The alimentary canal is enlarged to form a saccular stomach in 

 the four anterior body somites, while posteriorly it is narrow and 

 tubular, and, with the exception of a slight transverse loop in the 

 Vllth and Vlllth somites, proceeds directly to the anus on the dor- 

 sum of somite X. 



The jaws are small, measuring .02 mm. in breadth. They are of 

 similar form, being quadrideutate, with a median pair of long, 

 sharply-conical, widely- separated, and divergent teeth, bent at a 

 nearly right angle from the plane of the somewhat quadrangular 

 basal plate. In extreme lateral positions are a pair of inconspicuous 

 blunt teeth. When in position the basal plates are fixed in the 

 cuticle of the pharynx, and the points of the teeth of the two jaws 

 cross in the pharyngeal lumen. 



The spermatheca lies in tlie Vth somite to the left of the intestine. 




1894.] naturaIj sciences of Philadelphia. 453 



Its lower half is narrow and cn^lindrical, its upper abruptly ex- 

 panded. 



The copulatory bursa is rather thin walled, and with the penis is 

 capable of complete invagination. The penis sheath is relatively 

 short, and exhibits no muscular atrial enlargement at the upper end. 

 The glandular atrium is short, nearly spherical, and thick walled. 

 It receives the vasse deferentire, which are of the usual form. In the 

 mounted specimen, from which figure 1 was drawn, the atrium was 

 twisted so that in the figure the anterior end is directed posteriorly. 



The common opening of the anterior pair of nephridia is located on 

 the doi-sum of the major annulus of somite III, immediately pos- 

 terior to the dorsal appendage. 



The largest examples found among about a dozen specimens 

 measure about 1 mm. in length. 



This species was found on Cambarus aeuminatus, in the Johns 

 River, Watauga Co., N. C. , in the summer of 1893; but what part 

 of the crayfish it inhabits was not determined, nor have cocoons 

 been found. 



Pterodrilus distichus sp. nov. 



PI. XIII, fig. 2, profile of entire animal, showing intestine, sper- 

 matheca, atrium, ovary and ovipore of one side, etc. X 145. 



Fig. 2a, a jaw. X (340. 



Fig. 2h, transverse section through the Vlllth somite, showing 

 the dorsal appendages, and the thickening of the body wall, with the 

 intestine, nerve cord, and portion of a nephridium. X 145. 



Fig. 2c, the male efferent apparatus, figured from a dissection ; «, 

 glandular atrium; b, copulatory bursa; c, penis sheath; d, bursal 

 glands. X about 200. 



Fig. 2d, section across the glandular atrium. X 500. 



In form this species is similar to P. alcicornus, but the head is 

 rather more robust, and the Vllth somite is of greater diameter than 

 VI or VIII. 



Dorsal appendages are present on post- cephalic somites II to VIII 

 inclusive, and are much simpler than in P. alcicornus. The dorsal 

 ridges are not compressed and plate-like, and are similar on all the 

 somites. On somites II to VII each bears a pair of bluntly pointed 

 cylindrical lateral appendages, while somite VIII bears two pairs; 

 they become somewhat larger anteriorly. 



These appendages contain no longitudinal muscle fibres, and the 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



ridges on which they rest are largely formed, as shown in fig. 26, of 

 a muscular network derived from the circular fibres. 



In somites VII and VIII a complete transverse loop is developed 

 on the intestine, which is otherwise as in P. alcicoruus. The jaws are 

 also very similar, but diflfer in the shorter median pair of teeth, and 

 the stouter form of the basal plate. These distinctions are ex- 

 aggerated in the figures owing to the fact that they are represented 

 in slightly diflferent positions, fig. 2a being somewhat foreshortened. 



The spermatheca is slender and clavate, and regularly tapers fi'om 

 blind end to mouth. It lies to the left of the intestine. The cop- 

 ulatory bursa is nearly spherical, with thin muscular walls, and 

 larger bursal glands than P. alcicorniis. Its inner surface is thrown 

 into deep ridges, among which the penis lies. The whole structure, 

 when evaginated is shaped not unlike a mushroom, and resembles the 

 corresponding parts of Bdellodrllus philadelphicus. The glandular 

 atrium is remarkable in being divided by a deep cleft into two simi- 

 lar lobes, the structure being flattened in a plane perpendicular to 

 this cleft, giving the organ a shape much resembling the conven- 

 tionalized heart. The penis sheath is short, and lacks a sacular 

 dilation. 



The anterior nephridial pore is on the crest of the ridge of the 

 Ilird somite. In other i-espects this species resembles P. alcicornus. 



The largest example (from which the dissection fig. la was made) 

 from among upwards of fifty specimens measured 1.5 mm. in length, 

 the usual size being about 1 mm. 



Some small cocoons which may belong to this species were found 

 attached to the setae at the bases of the thoracic appendages of the 

 crayfishes from which the specimens were obtained. Unfortunately 

 the animals were not discovered while yet alive. 



P. distichus was found in great numbers with Bdellodrllus phila- 

 delphicus, B. vianus n. s., and Branchiohdella iastabilla upon speci- 

 mens of Cambarus bartonii, from western New York, for which I am 

 indebted to the kindness of Mr. Albert E. Lewis. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



THE SADSBTJRY STEATITE. 

 BY THEODORE D. RAND. 



Under this name I purpose describing outcrops of steatitic rocks 

 most conspicuously exposed in West Sadsbury Township, Chester 

 County, Pa., in the adjoining township of Sadsbury, Lancaster Co., 

 and less so in Valley, West Cain and West Brandywine Town- 

 ships, Chester Co. These, though known to arch?eologists, seem to 

 have escaped the notice of geologists, though known locally and 

 made use of in the building of lime-kilns, and in the lining of iron 

 furnaces. Long anterior to this use, they were evidently of value 

 to the aborigines, whose tools are still to be found at the outcrops, 

 together with fragments of vessels manufactured by the Indians from 

 the steatite. 



My attention was directed to these exposures by Mr. Harry Wil- 

 son, of Gum Tree, Chester Co., who had visited the localities in the 

 study of archaeology, and who kindly took me to the most prominent 

 outcrops. 



North of the Cambrian sandstone, which forms the mass of the 

 prominent North (Chester) Valley Hill, is a peculiar rock, often re- 

 sembling a pegmatite, often a very feldspathic gneiss or schist, occa- 

 sionally a hornblende or a mica schist. North of this is a very 

 heavy bedded, hard, highly crystalline gneiss, that recognized in 

 this portion of Pennsylvania as the most ancient gneiss, probably 

 of Laurentian age, identical with that of the Highlands of New- 

 Jersey and with that of the ridge which extending southwestward 

 from near Trenton, N. J. , to near Willow Grove, and there bifur- 

 cating, sends its southerly arm southwestward through Montgomery, 

 Delaware and Chester counties to North Brook, five miles southwest 

 of West Chester, and its northerly through northern Chester County, 

 where it widens greatly. It is this northerly arm which is referred to 

 above. In all its extent the rock is very compact and hard unless 

 decomposed, highly crystalline, rarely, if ever, schistose, except 

 from decomposition, and usually showing the characteristic blue 

 quartz. 




456 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



On the contrary, the rock next north of the Cambrian sandstone is 

 sometimes schistose, and while often gnesssic, is not nearly so densely 

 crystalline. The quartz is usually colorless or white. The rock 

 varies greatly, though the quartz — ^orthoolase variety, of coarse tex- 

 ture, is most abundant. AVhile, as a whole, differing from any other 

 gneiss of southeastern Pennsylvania, it is more unlike the ancient 

 gneiss than it is unlike those southeast of the Trenton — North Brook 

 ridge, that is the gneisses of Rogers' first belt, Mr. Hall's Phila- 

 delphia and Manayunk schists and gneisses. To the last, as a whole, 

 the resemblance is not close, but the I'ock of some strata in each bear 

 a resemblance. It is the rock referred to by Dr. Frazer as " a rock 

 of doubtful signification called alternately conglomerate, feldspar 

 porphyry, etc." (C^ p. 221.) Although Dr. Frazer in his text 

 differentiates this rock,* on the map, it as well as the schists between 

 the Cambrian and the limestone are colored the same as the ancient 

 gneiss, though Dr. Frazer queftions whether it is not really lower 

 Cambrian.^ 



At Valley Forge and eastward there is in the same relation to 

 the Cambrian sandstone a coarse conglomerate of pebbles chiefly of 

 bluish and pinkish quartz, which has been referred with little doubt 

 to the lower Cambrian. Could we be sure that this quartz feldspar 

 rock represents the conglomerate, a point would be gained, but inas- 

 much as they are extremely unlike, although exposed within five or 

 six miles of each other, I think we need proof of their identity. The 

 best exposure is along the west branch of the Braudywine, north 

 of Coatesville, where they dip quite irregularly, but with a prevailing 

 southeast dip of 70° and upwards. 



As this rock resembles closely no other southeast of the red sand- 

 stone, and occurs, so far as I am aware, only in Chester County 

 and the adjoining county of Lancaster, I propose for it provisionally 

 the name of the Chester County gneiss. 



It is in this gneiss that most, if not all, of the outcrops of the 

 Sadsbury steatite occur, and apparently in two lines somewhat 

 irregular. 



The easternmost outcrop of the northerly line is on the farm of 

 Mr. Thomas H. Windle,^ on the left bank of the West Branch of 



» Second Geol. Surv. Peuna., vol. C, pp. 221, 225, 228, 257, 263. 



'•^ C*, pp. 257, 258. 



^ I am under obligations to Mr. Windle for aid in this investigation. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 457 



the Brandywine, iu West BVandywiue Township, about half a mile 

 N. 55° E. of Wagoiitown. There are large, loose masses, some of 

 them of a schistose variety of the gneiss, containing apparently 

 hornblende and mica, and not soft, and others of similar appearance, 

 but soft enough to be cut readily with a knife, a steatite. No fast 

 rock was visible. To the north of it a hard, heavy bedded horn- 

 blende gneiss occurs. I was informed by Mr. Windle that consider- 

 able quantities of steatite have been obtained from this point, and 

 used in the furnaces at Coatesville. 



The next locality is a half mile or less N. 75° W. of Wagontowu, 

 or a little over three-fourths of a mile due west from the Windle 

 outcrop. These measurements and orientations are estimated from 

 the township map published by Breou, 1883, but a sighting of the 

 localities on the ground by compass (magnetic variation allowed for) 

 gave the direction N. 65 E. , an inexplicable difference of 25°. 

 This emphasizes the need of an accurate topographical map like 

 that of the New Jersey survey. 



This locality, on the farm of Abraham Brubaker, is immediately 

 north of the Lancaster road which passes through Wagon town (not 

 the Lancaster Pike, an approximatively parallel road a mile and a 

 half to the southward). An area of several acres of ploughed land 

 is strewn with numerous masses of steatite, mostly of small size, 

 while occasional fragments of basins and pots, and more rarely picks 

 made from trap rock give evidence that the red man had a work- 

 shop here. No rock certainly in place was seen in this field, but a 

 resident informed me that forty years ago a quarry of soapstoue was 

 wrought at this place, out of which large blocks were taken for use 

 in furnaces. With the steatite are small masses of schistose gneiss, 

 also quartz, some of it containing tourmaline. In the steatite octa- 

 hedral crystals of magnetite occur rarely. 



On the westerly edge of this field is a ridge of loose sandstone 

 rock only fifteen or twenty feet wide, looking as if hauled and 

 dumped along a fence line, but the size of the slabs, and their simi- 

 lar orientation, showed that they had not been moved far, or by 

 other than natural forces. A few hundred feet to the westward there 

 appeared a high, steep ridge of Cambrian sandstone, precipitous 

 on its southern side. The rock at Brubaker' s is evidently the eastern 

 termination of this ridge of sandstone, as it does not appear on the 

 Brandywine in the line of strike. It apparently extends westward 




458 PKOCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1894. 



to Compassville, being known further west as Sandy Hill.* On the 

 north side of this ridge the highly crystalline, hard, older gneiss ap- 

 pears, and in it, as usual, considerable trap, an outcrop of which 

 appears about three-eighths of a mile north of the ridge, and about 

 a half mile north of West Cain Meeting-house. 



The next outcrop of the northern series is on the farm of William 

 Paxson on the Philadelphia and Lancaster turnpike in West Sads- 

 bury Township, near the northwest branch of the Octorara Creek. 

 It is very insignificant and poorly exposed. On the Breou map it is 

 five miles S. 70 W. from the Brubaker outcrop. 



The easternmost outcrop of the southerly line is also poorly ex- 

 posed and insignificant. It is in Valley Township on the farm of E. 

 S. Umstead, one mile N. 70 W. from Coatesville and about a mile 

 and a half nearly south of the Windle outcrop.^ 



The next is also in Valley Township. It is on the farm of 

 William Hoofman, about a mile N. 45 E. of Pomeroy and two miles 

 S. 65 W. from the first. There is a large amount of the rock here 

 strewn in fragments over the surface. One mass only was apparently 

 in place, striking N. 65 E., the dip uncertain. Here cubic crystals 

 of probably limonite pseudomorph after pyrite were found. The 

 steatite is in smaller masses, softer, and apparently more nearly ap- 

 proaching pure talc than at the other localities. 



The third is the most extensive of these outcrops. It is in West 

 Sadsbury Township, five miles S. 85 W. from the second, and a mile 

 and a half N. 7 W. from Atglen. Here, on the Strasburg road, is 

 the Swan Tavern. North of it the Chester County gneiss is exposed® 

 and beyond this, the steatite, a short distance south of the Swan 

 Public School. The steatite, here accompanied by chlorite and a very 

 compact rock of a dull bluish color, soft but very tough, is in great 

 quantity but wholly in loose masses. On the road to Atglen, south 

 of the schoolhouse, a white fine-grained, highly feldspathic gneiss dips 

 N. 30 E. 60° ; an anomalous dip if the rock is iu place, as it appears 



* This prominent sandstone hill is not shown on the map in C*, though men- 

 tioned in the text on jiage 262 (Wagonville being evidently a typographical error 

 for Wagontown) and on p. 20, where it is referred to as an eastern extension of 

 Copper Mine T\idge, though on p. 161 it is included in the gneiss area. 



* This is in the area colored yellow on the map in ('*, where this color (repre- 

 senting the sandstone or quartzite) is widened suddenly and greatly after an 

 equally great narrowing northwest and north of Coatesville. If the typical 

 Cambrian sandstone is indicated my observations would not agree with this 

 widening, while if the ( "hester ( 'ounty gneiss is intended to be included they would 

 not agree with the narrowing. 



« C*, p. 270. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII.ADELPHIA. 459 



to be. Very close to this are two depressions out of which soapstone 

 is reported to have been quarried. Mr. Wilson informed me that 

 basins of Indian manufacture were found here in comparative 

 abundance. 



At the school a public road runs nearly east. Along this, on both 

 sides for a quarter of a mile, and then on the north side the steatitic 

 and serpentine rocks abound, but none were seen certainly in place. 

 With these was much gneissoid rock and rusty quartz, also in loose 

 masses. A mile east of this a large mass of steatite is visible in 

 the road, and I am informed that it occurs a half mile farther east 

 on the Limestone road, the dividing line between the townships of 

 Sadsbury and West Sadsbury.' 



Between a quarter and a half mile north of the steatite the older 

 gneiss is visible in a road running north between two branches of the 

 Octorara. 



The fourth and westernmost of the southerly outcrops is the one 

 which has furnished probably the greatest variety and number of 

 specimens of Indian handiwork, their quarries being still partially 

 visible. It is situated on the farm of George Williams, in Sadsbury 

 Township, Lancaster County, about one mile west of Christiaha, 

 and three miles S. 70 W. from the Swan outcrop. The only ad- 

 jacent rock visible is a feldspathic gneiss of the Chester County 

 variety. This is shown in numerous loose masses in a line nearly 

 northeast from the steatite outcrop. The steatite is strewn in frag- 

 ments, some of them quite large, over an area of several acres, and 

 there are two places where quarries evidently existed but which have 

 been used as dumping grounds for the adjacent rock. In these, I am 

 informed, the rock in place was exposed. 



The steatite from all these localities is much alike, generally schis- 

 tose, quite soft, though impure and containing a large number of 

 small cavities as if from the weathering out of a contained mineral. 

 No crystalline form was observed in the cavities, they often contain 

 ferric oxide. The particles of talc are usually comparatively large 

 and irregular, making the rock, on a casual inspection, resemble a 

 mica schist more than the talc schists of the Lafayette steatite. The 

 color is usually dull gray, more rarely greenish. Except at the 

 Swan outcrop it is not visibly accompanied by serpentine. At 



'' West Sadsbury was set ofiF from Sadsbury in 1878. The dividing line is the 

 Limestone road, an old Indian trail and an important highway, which is the west 

 line of the borough of Parkesburg. 




'i^O PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Christiana it contains garnets, at Brubaker's magnetite, and at Hoof- 

 raau's altered pyrite. At Hoofman's, in small quantity, is a crypto- 

 crystalline variety, very soft, very pale green, nearly white in color, 

 and resembling the talc schist of Lafayette. At the Swan outcrop 

 chlorite in large folia occurs, also a rock apparently one of the 

 hornblende family changing into steatite or chlorite. 



At the Windle outcrop the masses of steatite so closely resemble 

 the adjacent masses of schistose gneiss that one is in doubt until he 

 tests for hardness, and there appears to be a gradation from the very 

 hard to the very soft rock. 



I have stated that these outcrops are in the Chester County 

 gneiss, but to this the William Paxson outcrop may be an exception. 

 There is an outcrop of the ancient gneiss to the southwest of it. 

 The exposures do not suffice to indicate much more than its certain 

 existence. 



There is one other outcrop of steatite to which my attention was 

 called by Mr. Windle, further north than any of those already 

 mentioned and apparently isolated. It is on the farm of Samuel 

 Holmes, and on the south branch of Birch Run, an affluent of the 

 west branch of the Brandywine, in West Cain Township, Chester 

 Co. , and is in the course of the ancient gneiss, which ranges north of 

 the sandstone, north of the Chester County gneiss, in West Cain. As 

 usual the exposure is poor, consisting of but a few loose masses of 

 steatite, with masses of schistose gneiss resembling it in appearance. 



Perhaps the most striking feature at all these outcrops, considered 

 in relation to those on the southerly side of the valley is the rarity 

 of serpentine. At all other steatite outcrops in S. E. Pennsylvania 

 of which I have knowledge serpentine rocks abound, and the steatite 

 rocks are subordinate, except perhaps in the Lafayette steatite belt, 

 but in it serpentine is abundant though the steatite predominates. 

 In these outcrops north of the valley, however, serpentine is quite 

 rare, hemg found at the Swan outcrop only. The resemblance of 

 the steatite to the gneiss found with it is very similar to the occur- 

 rence at Chestnut Hill, north of Easton, Pa.,® and my observations 

 lead me to the conclusion that the genesis is the same in both in- 

 stances, the alteration of a gneiss containing probably a large pro- 

 portion of a magnesian mica, and this perhaps derived from the 

 hornblende, as is certainly the case on the Schuylkill, above Girard 

 Avenue Bridge, Fairraount Park, Philadelphia. 

 * Proc. A. N. S. Phila., Mar. 25, 1890, p. 95. 




1894.] NATUKAI^ SCIENCKS OF PHILADEI.PHIA 



The followiug annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee: — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The interest in the meetings of the Academy has been well sustained 

 during the past year, and the work of the Publication Committee, the re- 

 port of which it is customary to include in that of the Recording Secre- 

 tary, has been of more than the usual in]portance. The attendance at 

 the meetings has averaged thirty-six. Verbal communications have 

 been made by Messrs. Sharp, Ryder, Dixon, Libbey, Chapman, Cope, 

 VVillcox, Wistar, Pilsbry, Holman, Goldsmith, Rand, Mercer, 

 Brinton, Allen, Heilprin, Woolman, A. E. Brown, Ball, Sangree, 

 Eakins, Morsell, McCook, Wilson, Rhoads, Morris, Johnson, Rex, 

 and McFarlane. Such of these communications as have been re- 

 ported by their authors have been published in the Proceedings. 



During the year 192 pages of the Proceedings for 1893 and 376 

 for 1894, illustrated by 13 plates have been published. The first 

 and second numbers of the tenth volume of the Journal, composed 

 of two elaborate memoirs by Clarence B. Moore on the sand mounds 

 of Florida, and consisting of 246 pages and 33 plates, have also 

 been issued and distributed. Material is now in the hands of the 

 Publication Committee for the completion of the ninth volume, which 

 has been delayed in consequence of the character of Mr. Moore's 

 papers, and it is hoped that the last number will be distributed to 

 subscribers and correspondents early in the spring. There will 

 then remain in the hands of the Committee for the continuation of 

 the tenth volume a memoir on the development of the brain in the 

 Anthropoids, by the late Dr. Andrew J. Parker, and one on the crania 

 of the Sand Mounds of Florida, by Dr. Harrison Allen, the latter 

 to be elaborately illustrated through the liberality of Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore, to whom the Academy is also indebted for the fine plates 

 accompanying his own communications. 



The Manual of Conchology has been continued by the Conchologi- 

 cal Section, 482 pages and 79 plates having been published in the 

 two series of which the work consists, while 340 pages and 10 plates 

 of the Entomological Kews and 344 pages and 8 plates of the Trans- 

 actions of the American Entomological Society have been issued by 

 the Entomological Section. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Forty-three papers have been presented for publication as fol- 

 lows: Samuel N. Rhoads 7, Edw. D. Cope 4, Wm. B. Scott 3, 

 Thomas Meeban 2, H. A. Pilsbry 2, Witmer Stone 2, Clarence B. 

 Moore 2, A. Ortraann 2, C. H. Merriam 2, T. D. A. Cockerell 2, 

 W. H. Holmes 1, Henry C. Chapman 1, David Starr Jordan 1, 

 H. F. Moore 1, Henry C. Mercer 1, E. Goldsmith 1, Arthur E. 

 Brown 1, Thos. Eakins 1, Harrison Allen 1, G. C. Davis 1, F. C. 

 Baker 1, C. W. Johnson 1, Wm. J. Fox 1, J. B. Ellis and B. M. 

 Everhardt 1, and J. Percy Moore 1. Thirty-eight of these have 

 been reported on favorably for the Proceedings and five for the 

 Joui'nal. 



Twenty-nine members and one correspondent have been elected. 

 The deaths of thirteen members and five correspondents have been 

 announced. Nine ree"gnations of membership have been presented 

 and accepted. 



Mr. Gavin W. Hart having resigned his position in the Council of 

 the Academy, Dr. C. N. Peirce was elected to fill the vacancy 

 April 3a. 



The By-Laws were amended February 27th, by the addition of 

 the following words to Article XIII, of Chapter 5 : "Should any Sec- 

 tion be dissolved, become extinct, or cease to exist for any cause 

 whatever, all the property and effects of such Section shall be held 

 by the Academy for its own use in such of its departments as it may 

 deem most appropriate, preferring those nearest related to the objects 

 of such Section, except such property or parts thereof as may be 

 subject to conditions or limitations by deed, devise, bequest, or special 

 agreement, in which case such property shall be disposed of in ac- 

 cordance with such condition, limitation, or agreement. " 



On the report of the Committee on the Hayden Geological 

 Memorial Award the medal and accumulated interest on the fund 

 have this year been voted to Prof. Gabriel Auguste Daubree of the 

 Institut de France. 



By permission of the Academy meetings have been held on the 

 premises during the year by the Geographical Club, the Botanical 

 Club, the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, Pennsylvania 

 Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis, Pennsylvania Forestry 

 Association, Woods Holl Biological Association, and the United 

 States Veterinary Medical Association. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



During the absence of the Recording Secretary in Europe the 

 duties of the office were acceptably performed by Mr. Win. J. Fox. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year commencing December 1st, 1893, he has received from eighty- 

 twq societies, museums, etc., one hundred and forty-six acknowledg- 

 ments of the receipt of the publications of the Academy, and from 

 fifty -four societies, editors, etc., sixty -three notices of the forwarding 

 of their own publications to the Academy, together with fifteeij ap- 

 plications to exchange publications for reports, etc., asking for miss- 

 ing numbers of the Academy's publications, and one lo discontinue 

 the exchange with the Academy. Thirty-eight letters on various 

 subjects have been received and thirteen written. Fifteen circulars 

 and invitations to the Academy to participate in congresses or meet- 

 ings, have been received and answered. 



During the year one correspondent has been elected and notified. 

 The deaths of five correspondents have been reported. Six certifi- 

 cates have been sent to correspondents. 



Seven hundred and fifty-six acknowledgments for gifts to the 

 library and one hundred and twenty-eight for gifts to the museum 

 have been forwarded. Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




464 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The additions to the library received during tlie past twelve months 

 have shown a gratifying increase over the accessions of the year be- 

 fore. They number 4,866, consisting of 4,335 pamphlets and parts- 

 of periodicals, 475 volumes, 46 maps, and 10 photographs. 



They were derived from the following sources:— 



Societies, 2,pi0 j W. W. Jefferis, 6 



Editors, 998 i Geological Survey of Peun- 



I. V. Williams(m Fund, . . 671 sylvania, 6 



General Appropriation, . . . 420 



Authors, ISO 



United States Uep. of In- 

 terior, 78 



Smithsonian Institution, . 56 



Hon. D. W. Voorhees, ... 51 

 United States Department of 



Agriculture, 45 



Geological Survey of Sweden, 33 



Rev. L. T. Chamberlain, . . 20 



Pennsylvania State Library, 19 



Wilson Fund, 19 



United States Department of 



State, 18 



Dr. Sajnuel G. Dixon. . . 17 

 United States Treasury De- 

 partment, 16 



Chas. P. Perot, 15 



Minister of Public Works, 



France, 12 



Tennessee State Board of 



Health, 12 



9 



9 

 9 

 9 

 9 



8 



Colorado Scientific Society, 



Superintendent of the Cen- 

 sus, India, 



Geological Survey of Italy, 



E. L. Giiliams, 



Thomas Meehan, 



University of Kiel, .... 



United States War Depart- 

 ment, 



Department of Mines, New- 

 South Wales, 



Dr. H. C. Chapman, . . . 



Geological Survey of India, 



8 

 6 



California State Mining Bu- 

 reau, 



Dr. Beuj. Sharp, 



Secretary of State, India, . 



H. A. Pilsbry, 



United States Department 

 of Labor, 



Kew Botanical Garden, . . 



J. A. Lintner, 



Pennsylvania State Board of 

 Health, 



Geological Survey of New 

 Jersey, 



Geological Commission of 

 France, 



United States Coast and Ge- 

 odetic Survey, 



Department of Geology, In- 

 diana, 



Norwegian Government, . . 



Charles E. Smith, 



Department of Works, Mex- 

 ico, 



Costa Rica National Museum, 



Geological Survey of Minne- 

 sota, 



I llinois State Bureau of Labor 

 Statistics, 



Dr. John Eckfeldt, 



Massachusetts Commission- 

 ers of Inland Fisheries, . 



Maryland State Weather 

 Service, 



Geologi(.'al Survey of Geor- 

 gia, 



6 

 5 

 5 

 5 



4 



4 



a 



2 



2: 

 2 



2 

 »> 



2 



2 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



465 



Geological Survey of Ala- 

 bama, 1 



United States Fish Commis- 



^iou, 1 



Ujiited States Civil Service 



Commissiou, 1 



Department of Mines, Nova 



Scotia, 1 



Upsal Observatory, i 



S. R. Roberts, 1 



Dr. Henry Skinner, .... 1 



Dr. M. V. Ball, 1 



Directors of City Trusts, 



Philadelphia, 1 



Australian Museum, .... l 



They were distributed to the 

 follows: — 



Iowa Geological Survey, . . 



Mrs. H. Carvill Lewis, . . 



Angelo Heilprin, 



East Indian Government, . 



Venezuelan Government, . 



Norwegian Meteorological 

 Institute, 



Illinois State Board of Agri- 

 culture, 



Dr. H. C. Wood, 



American Humanitarian 

 League, 



Comit6 M6t6orologique In- 

 ternational, 



John L. Peyton 



several departments of the library as 



Journals, 3,910 



Geology 234 



Botany, 133 



Conch ology, 113 



General Natural History, . 58 



Anthropology, 54 



Entomology, 48 



Mammalogy, 28 



Anatomy and Physiology, . 27 



Mineralogy, 22 



Voyages and Travels, ... 19 



Ornithology, 18 



Agriculture, 15 



Physical Science, 14 



Encyclopedias, 11 



Herpetology, 10 



Ichthyology, . . 

 Chemistry, . . . 

 Helminthology, 

 Bibliography, . 

 Geography, . . 



9 

 8 

 7 

 5 

 1 



In addition to these, 127 works having no relation to science have 

 been received and catalogued for future disposition by the Library 

 Committee. 



The increase in the number of accessions is due to replies received 

 to 258 applications for deficiencies and 62 propositions for exchange 

 of publications. The latter included letters written to all the 

 scientific societies and journals not yet on the Academy's exchange 

 list, the names of which could be ascertained. The results of the 

 correspondence have been encouraging. 



The binding has been confined almost entirely to the department 

 of journals and periodicals, 403 volumes having been bound during the 

 year, while 86 volumes are now in the hands of the workmen. Much 

 still remains to be accomplished, although the good results of the last 

 two years' comparatively liberal appropriations for binding are 

 31 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



evident. The volumes are always carefully collated in the Academy 

 before being sent out of the building. The work was interrupted 

 during the summer in consequence of the Librarian's absence in 

 Europe. He took occasion to visit such libraries of scientific societies 

 as could be reached in the cities visited, and is glad to be able to 

 state that no library devoted purely to natural history seen by him was 

 superior either in extent or in convenience of arrangement to that of 

 the Academy. 



Perhaps the most important bibliographical aid to the scientific 

 student is the Royal Society Catalogue of Scientific Papers. The ten 

 volumes now issued embrace an alphabetical arrangement of authors 

 with the titles of their contributions from 1800 to 1883. It has long 

 been felt that a catalogue of these papers arranged according to sub- 

 ject was a most important desideratum, but one which must necessarily 

 be the work of co-operation among the scientific societies and biblio- 

 graphers of the world. Attention was called to the desirability of 

 such a compilation in the report of the Librarian of the Academy 

 for 1889, and it is, therefore, now a cause of congratulation that the 

 subject is under consideration by the Royal Society of London. 



A circular having been received from the Society asking for co- 

 operation and suggestion, a committee was appointed consisting of 

 Messrs. Philip P. Calvert, Henry Pilsbry, Stewardson Brown, Ben- 

 jamin Sharp and Theodore D. Rand, with the Librarian as Chair- 

 man, to which the document was referred. A report was adopted by 

 the Academy to the effect: — 



1. That a catalogue of scientific papers as proposed by the Royal 

 Society is desirable and that international co-operation should be en- 

 gaged in its preparation. 



2. That in order to secure uniformity in all parts of such a 

 catalogue, a central bureau, as suggested by the Committee of the 

 Royal Society, appears to be necessary, rather than that separate 

 portions of the catalogue should be prepared by various institutions, 

 such central bureau to be under the direction of the Royal Society, 

 from which the proposition emanates; all publications of societies 

 and monographs to be sent to such central bureau ; the expenses to 

 be met by returns from the sale of copies of the catalogue. 



3. That such a catalogue should be classified and should be 

 issued at least once a year, each volume to be provided with an 

 alphabetical index. 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADELrPHIA. 467 



4. That the scope of such a classified catalogue should embrace 

 the various yearlv bibliographies of special sciences now issued. 



5. That whenever translations or summaries are believed to be 

 desirable, English should be made the basis of the catalogue. 



The Academy is indebted to George Vaux, Mary M. Vaux, 

 George Vaux, Jr., and Wm. S. Vaux, Jr., for a fine portrait in oil 

 of the late Wm. S. Vaux, whose long connection with the Academy 

 as Curator, Vice-President, and member of various executive com- 

 mittees for over forty years, together with his permanent association 

 with the mineralogical and archaeological departments of the Museum, 

 of Avhich the Wm. S. Vaux Collections form an important part, 

 renders this memorial of unusual interest. 



Special acknowledgment is due to Mr. Wm. J. Fox for his 

 efficient and faithful discharge of the duties of the office during the 

 Librarian's absence. Means were again provided by friends of the 

 Academy for the employment during the summer months of Signor 

 Emauuele Fronani, much of whose time was devoted to the correspon- 

 dence regarding deficiencies and exchanges. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Lihrarion. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators report that the museum, so far as regards the preser- 

 vation of the specimens, is in the satisfactory condition described in 

 their last annual report, while important progress has been made 

 during the year in the rearrangement, marking, and cataloguing of 

 the collections. 



It is also a satisfaction to report the completion of the new museum 

 building and the transference of some of the collections to the new 

 galleries. 



It was deemed most desirable to devote the first floor of the new 

 museum to the departments of Archaeology and Mineralogy, and in 

 accordance with this plan the entire Vaux collection, numbering 33 

 cases, has been transferred under the direction of the Curators and 

 Mr. W. W. Jefferis, the special curator of this collection. Mr. 

 JeflTeris has given many valuable minerals to this great collection 

 during the year ; and thanks to his untiring energy the entire cabinet 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



is now in systematic order. The arrangement of the specimens in the 

 Vaux archaeological collection will also soon be completed. 



Mr. Clarence B. ]Moore generously presented six handsome ex- 

 hibition cases made under the direction of the Curators for the Moore 

 collection of Indian pottery and mound relics from Florida, which 

 have been placed in the new building next to the Vaux collection. 

 Mr. Moore has personally superintended the transference and 

 arrangement of his specimens, which now constitute probably the 

 most valuable archaeological series from this region in existence. 



The Academy has also purchased four additional cases like those 

 in which the Moore collection is placed, and in these have been 

 arranged the celebrated Poinsett collection of Mexican antiquities 

 deposited by the American Philosophical Society, and the Haldeman 

 Indian collection. In addition to these the eases of Eskimo imple- 

 ments and clothing have been removed to the new building, and 

 numerous spears, shields, kyaks, and canoes have been placed in 

 position on the walls and pillars. In a short time the remainder of 

 the archaeological material will be removed to the new building. 

 This floor will then be ready for exhibition. 



The archi^ological department of the museum, as finally arranged, 

 will form one of the finest exhibits in the country, being only 

 surpassed in value by those at Cambridge and Washington. Con- 

 taining as it does many unique specimens, this department, which 

 for lack of space has been so long neglected, will now be placed in 

 good condition. The Academy's cabinet of minerals will be trans- 

 ferred as soon as suitable cases can be secured. It will be arranged 

 contiguous to the Vaux collection of minerals. 



In addition to the transference of these collections to the new 

 building an important rearrangement has been effected in the old 

 museum. Nine cases have been removed to the room over the 

 Lecture Hall, which has been set apart to illustrate the natural 

 history of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. The mammals of these 

 States have been selected from the general collection and many new 

 specimens have been especially prepared for it, while the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological Club's collection of birds, with nests and eggs 

 mounted to show their life history, has been removed from the orni- 

 thological gallery and arranged here to much better advantage. A 

 local collection of reptiles and mollusks has been presented by 

 Messrs. Brown and Stone, while a series of the local lepidoptera is 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



being prepared for presentation by Dr. Henry Skinner, so that there 

 will soon be an exhibit of the natural history of Pennsylvania and 

 New Jersey much more complete than has heretofore been displayed, 

 and which will constitute a representative State Museum. 



Among other work accomplished dui-ing the year may be men- 

 tioned the rearrangement of the mammalian osteological collection, 

 many of the disarticulated skeletons being placed in drawers where 

 they are more available for- study. 



The large amount of unclassified palreontoJogical material stored 

 in drawers on the main floor has also been re-examined, roughly 

 classified and labeled, thus greatly facilitating the final disposition of 

 the material. 



In cataloguing the museum, important progress has been made, 

 especially in the department of birds, where 5,907 specimens have 

 been carefully examined, identified and catalogued, the types and 

 duplicates unnecessary for display being removed from the stands and 

 placed in cabinets, those desirable for exhibition being remounted. 

 In this work the Curators have followed the practice adopted in all 

 other large museums, and endorsed by letters from the leading 

 ornithologists of the world. A more detailed account of the work 

 of the ornithological department will be found in the report of the 

 Section. 



The collection of reptiles and batrachians, numbering 3,939 jars, 

 has also been carefully examined during the year, the jars numbered 

 and a rough catalogue prepared. The entries, however, have not 

 yet been copied into the regular catalogue pending a revision of the 

 identifications. 



In the mineralogical department, through the valuable assistance 

 of Mr. J. E. Richardson, the entire collection of over 8,000 speci- 

 mens has been permanently numbered with painted figures and a 

 considerable portion catalogued. The importance of this work can- 

 not lie overestimated, as it will, when completed, preclude all possi- 

 bility of loss of data by the misplacing of specimens. 



The department of invertebrate palaeontology has profited by the 

 liberality of the Rev. Dr. L. T. Chamberlain, who has provided a 

 handsome mahogany case for the display of the Isaac Lea collection, 

 and has sent an expedition to the fossil-bearing beds of the Southern 

 States. A rich collection, numbering over 500 species, has been 

 secured, and is now being unpacked and classified. Dr. Chamber- 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



lain has also generously provided cases for the valuable slabs of 

 fossil foot prints presented by Isaac Lea. During the year Dr. 

 Chamberlain was appointed special conservator of the eocene fossils. 



The remainder of the Pennsylvania State Geological Survey col- 

 lection is also being unpacked and arranged so that all the material 

 will soon be available for study. 



During the latter part of last year Dr. Benj. Sharp, in conjunction 

 with Prof Wm. Libby, Jr., conducted an important expedition to 

 the Hawaiian Islands. As he returned too late to prepare his col- 

 lections for presentation in time for the last annual report, no men- 

 tion of them was made at that time. During the past year these 

 collections have been arranged in the museum where they form a 

 valuable addition, comprising many archiBological specimens of in- 

 terest, as well as a fine series of volcanic rocks and lavas, and a 

 series of dried plants. 



The Academy's taxidermist, Mr. D. N. McCaddeu, besides spend- 

 ing much time during the year in remounting the birds, has prepared 

 a large number of new specimens, mainly received in the flesh from 

 the Zoological Society of Philadelphia. These have been mounted for 

 the museum or converted into skins or skeletons as the circumstances 

 warranted. 



The accessions during the year have been of great importance. 

 Besides the gifts already mentioned, the Martindale collection of 

 lepidoptera, comprising appoximately 16,000 specimens, was pur- 

 chased by the Academy with the assistance of a number of generous 

 contributors, and this, together with the Peale and other collections 

 already in its possession, places the Academy in the front rank in 

 this department. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continually added to his collection of 

 Indian mound relics, and has had collectors at work in Ohio and 

 Florida during the year. The Zoological Society of Philadelphia 

 presented numerous valuable specimens of mammals and birds, 

 while the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has added numerous 

 groups to the special collection of local birds and nests. 



An important collection of post pliocene fossils has been obtained 

 by Dr. S. G. Dixon and Mr. H. C. Mercer from a fissure in the 

 limestone rocks at Port Kennedy, Pa., where they have made exca- 

 vations and collected a large amount of valuable data. So far spe- 

 cimens of Megalonyx, Mastodon, Tapir, Peccary, Deer, etc., have 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



been obtained, full accounts of which will be published in the near 

 future. 



The museum during the year has furnished aid to many specialists 

 who have been offered every facility within the power of the Curators, 

 while the interest of the general public in the exhibits would appear 

 to be greatly stimulated. This is largely due to the custom inaugu- 

 rated during the past year, of placing new and attractive specimens 

 in a prominent place on the main floor of the museum for some days 

 before putting them in their final positions, as well as to many popu- 

 lar articles which have appeared in our daily papers. 



Specimens have been loaned during the year to Mr. T. Wayland 

 Vaughan, Dr. AVm. H. Dall, Austin C. Apgar, B. W. Evermanu, 

 Prof Jas. Hall, Messrs. F. W. True, F. M. Chapman, C. W. Rich- 

 mond, and Dr. Geo. Bauer. 



The departments of botany and entomology have been under the 

 care of the special conservators, Mr. John H. Redfield and Dr. Henry 

 Skinner respectively, to whom the Curators are indebted for their 

 valuable aid. Acknowledgment is also due to Mr. W. W. Jefferis, 

 Curator of the Vaux Collections, and Messrs. Shultz, Boyer, and 

 Woolmau who have done valuable work in classifying and labeling 

 the collection of diatoms. 



The unusual progress thus recorded is largely owing to the earnest- 

 ness and fidelity manifested by the assistants, Messrs. Witmer Stone 

 and Samuel N. Rhoads, Mr. D. N. McCaddeu, taxidermist, and the 

 Jessup Fund students, Messrs. J. E. Richardson, Howard Y. Pen- 

 nell and Henry W. Fowler. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 



Curator-in-charge. 



REPORT OF BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



During the year nine regular meetings of the Section have been 

 held, at which communications were made and microscopic slides 

 exhibited. 



Among the communications of special interest were those of Dr. 

 B. Sharp, on his expedition to Hawaii and on the fertilization of 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



plants ; those of Dr. Geo. A. Rex, on bacteria in the Myxomycetes ; 

 of Mr. Amos P. Brown, on hairs on Mentzelia, and Mr. Boyer's 

 description of a new form of diatom, named by him Rhahdonema 

 Woolmanii. 



At the joint meetings with the Academy the Section has always 

 been represented by its members, and important communications 

 have been made as follows : John A, Ryder, preparation of nervous 

 tissue, formation of brain convolutions; Geo. A. Rex, M. D. , Plas- 

 modium of Myxomycetes, Diachcea Thomasii ; Benjamin Sharj), 

 PhD., curious growth on a tree- root from San Salvador, fertiliza- 

 tion of plants in Hawaii; C. S. Boyer, on cyclosis ; Lewis Woolman, 

 remarks on diatoms; S. G. Dixon, M. D. , protection from tubercu- 

 losis; D. S. Holman, remarks on Myxomycetes; S. Trenner, exhibi- 

 tion of centrifugal machine; M. V. Ball, M. D. , remarks on tetanus 

 and the antitoxin, crystals formed by bacteria, skulls of criminals. 



The donations to the collection have been few : One slide of 

 barking sand, by Dr. Rex, and ten slides of histologic subjects by Mr. 

 Leedora Sharp. 



Five new names have been added to the list of members and con- 

 tributors. One death has been announced, and two members have 

 resigned, leaving the number of members and contributors sixty- four. 



The average attendance at the regular meetings was eight. 



The Treasurer's report shows a balance of $239.39 in the 

 treasury. 



Dr. Geo. A. Rex, the Conservator of the Section, reports as fol- 

 lows: — 



The property of the Section is in good condition. The microscopes 

 and accessory apparatus are in working order and have been freely 

 and frequently used at the stated meeting of the Section. 



No addition has been made to the apparatus during the year. 

 The slide collection is also in good order, but it is to be regretted 

 that but few additions have been made since the last report. 



Some inconvenience results from the crowded condition of our 

 cabinet, especially in the space devoted to the large binoculars and 

 the Leidy stands, but it is hoped that this will be remedied when 

 space in the new building is available. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



The following gentlemen were elected to fill the various offices for 

 the ensuing year: — 



Director, ..... Benjamin Sharp, M. D. 



Vice- Director, .... John C. Wilson. 



Treasurer, ..... Chas. P. Perot. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . John G. Rothermel. 



Conservator, .... Geo. A. Rex, M. D. 



Recorder, M. V. Ball, M.D. 



Respectfully submitted. 



M. V. Ball, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



During the year 1894 specimens of mollusca have been re- 

 ceived from 45 persons, and a large number of species new to the 

 collection have been added to the museum, as well as a few new to 

 science. As usual, a great many specimens illustrating geographic 

 distribution and variation have increased the study series; and as 

 the growth of this series, which is arranged in drawers under the ex- 

 hibition cases, exceeds the growth of the exhibition series, we are 

 again in urgent need of space for its proper disposal. 



The principal accessions during the year have been several send- 

 ings from Dr. J. C. Cox of shells from Australia and Tasmania, a 

 large series of marine shells of Japan which we have been allowed to 

 select from the collection of Mr. Frederick Stearns, a series of 

 Japanese land mollusks in alcohol, and a very valuable collection of 

 shells from the Liukiu Is. , also due to the liberality of Mr. Stearns. 

 A considerable number of South Australian land shells and chitons 

 we owe to Mr. W. T. Bednall. Finally, the Conservator, with the 

 co-operation of Mr. C. W. Johnson, was enabled to collect very ex- 

 tensive series of the mollusks of the middle St. Johns River, Florida. 

 Many thousand specimens were collected from numerous localities 

 and the material amassed will prove of great importance in the study 

 of the variable and ill-defined species of Floridian Unionidse. An 

 especial object of the journey was to procure certain peculiar local 

 races of Vivipara ; and a number of varieties new to science were 

 found, including one of the most divergent forms of the genus yet 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



discovered in any country, which adds an entirely new phase to the 

 series of variations known in the family Viviparidse. The success 

 of these researches is attributable to the excellent facilities placed at 

 our disposal by Mr. Clarence B. Moore. 



Accessions to our series of American shells have been received 

 from Messrs. A. G. Wetherby, E. G. Vanatta, Morris Schiek, H. 

 F. Stupakoif, H. E. Sargent, C. W. Johnson, O. A. Ny lander, S. 

 N. Rhoads, W. J. Raymond, and numerous others, whose names 

 appear in the list of accessions to the museum. A collection of 

 New Jersey shells has been made and presented by Messrs. Witmer 

 Stone, S. and F. H, Brown. It is now arranged in the Pennsyl- 

 vania and New Jersey department of the museum. 



From Prof. H. W. Gwatkin, of Cambridge, England, we have 

 received a large number of mounted radulae of mollusks, in ex- 

 change for material for mounting. 



Mr. H. Suter and Prof F. W. Hutton, of New Zealand, and 

 Mr. C. Hedley, of Sydney, New South Wales, have continued dur- 

 ing the year to send us new and rare forms of antipodal mollusks.' 

 A series of Sandwich Island forms, collected by Dr. B. Sharp, has 

 added sevei-^l rare or new species. 



Except in the proper placing of new material in the cases, and the 



determination of new and old material, but little work has been 



done in the museum during the year; this has been owing partly to 



the pressure of other work, but mainly to the fact that little can be 



done advantageously until more space is allotted to the Conchological 



department. It is believed that this will be accomplished during the 



coming year. 



Respectfully submitted, 



H. A. PiLSBRY, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The regular monthly meetings have been held during the year, 

 except in July and August. The average attendance of members 

 at meetings has been ten persous. Interesting verbal communications 

 on entomological subjects have been made by nearly all the mem- 

 bers and associates. The publication known as the Entomological 

 News and Proceedings of the Entomological Section of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, has been continued, and 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



475 



volume five completed, with three hundred and forty pages and ten 

 plates. One new memher has been elected and one associate. At a 

 meeting held Dec. 10, 1894, the following were elected to serve as 

 officers for the coming year: — 



Director, 



Vice-Director, 



Recorder, 



Treasurer, 



Conservator, 



Pu hi. Committee , 



Geo. H. Horn, M.D. 

 Chas. S. Welles. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D. 

 Ezra T. Cresson. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D. 

 j James H. Ridings, 

 ( Chas. W. Johnson. 

 Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Botanical Section respectfully reports that it is in a prosper- 

 ous condition, has held regular monthly meetings at which valuable 

 communications have been presented and discussed, and that it is 

 wholly free from debt. 



The herbarium, owing to the assiduous labors of the Conservator, 

 Mr. John H. Redfield, is in a highly prosperous condition, contain- 

 ing about 33,000 species of flowering plants and ferns, of which 452 

 new to the herbarium were added last year. 



The herbarium is hampered by want of room, all of which is set 

 forth in detail in the Conservator's annual statement, which is ap- 

 pended as part of this report. 



The officers elected for the ensuing year are : — 



Director, ..... Thomas Meehan. 



Vice- Director, 



Recorder, 



Cor. Sec'y and Treasurer, 



Conservator, 



Charles E. Smith. 

 Charles Schiiffer M.D. 

 Stewardson Brown 

 J. H. Redfield. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice- Director. 



The Conservator of the Botanical Section reports as follows: — 

 This is the nineteenth year since a change of the By-Laws of the 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Academy placed the care of its herbarium with the Conservator 

 chosen by the newly formed Botanical Section, instead of with a 

 committee chosen by the Academy as formerly. Certainly the con- 

 tinued and rapid gi-owth of the collection and the improvement of 

 its condition during that period have not been excelled in any por- 

 tion of the Academy's earlier history. Those who remember the 

 narrow, dark, and cramped accommodations afforded the botanical 

 collections in the old Broad Street building, and the unwieldly port- 

 folios in which they were arranged, under the old Linnjean system, 

 can now congratulate the working botanists upon the improvement in 

 the accessibility and usefulness of the herbarium which resulted 

 from the change of quarters and from more modern methods of ar- 

 rangement. At the time of that removal, the estimates of the ex- 

 tent of the collection were vague and exaggerated. The careful and 

 conservative enumeration which has since been made of the flower- 

 ing plants and ferns, places the number of species at the present 

 time at over 33,000. If we add to these the cryptogamic collections, 

 which have not been so carefully enumerated, the total would 

 probably approach 40,000 species. Nearly one-half of these have 

 been received since we have been in the present quarters. But the 

 number of new species received gives a very inadequate idea of the 

 growth, a large part of which consists of additions of species pre- 

 viously represented, but now in fuller suites from new and wider 

 localities, and in better condition. 



The collections removed from the old building were all in loose 

 sheets or species-covers, and had consequently suffered much in 

 handling, from the brittleness of age ; and many of the subsequent 

 additions were necessarily placed in the same way. But soon after 

 the removal it was determined that it was all-important that the 

 whole should be properly and permanently affixed to sheets with 

 collector's tickets securely preserved. The task was a great one, 

 with the little help at command, but it has been steadily pursued 

 during the time not required for the care of new accessions. The 

 separate North American collection is all thus mounted, and about 

 one-fourth of the larger general herbarium. 



The number of plants received during the past year reaches 2,119 

 species, of which 204 belong to the lower cryptogams and 1,915 are 

 phanerogams and ferns. Of the latter 489 are N. American species, 

 311 Tropical American, 191 European, 684 Asiatic, 150 African, 




1894.] NATURAL, SCIENCES OF PHILADEIjPHIA. 477 



and 90 Australian and Polynesian. 452 of these are new to our 

 collection, and 30 of thera represent new genera. 



It is hoped that the additional space soon to be at command of the- 

 Academy will enable the Curators to provide some means for the 

 expansion of the botanical collections. When we took possession of 

 the present cases, large room was left for growth, but nineteen years 

 have crowded the shelves to the point of injury to the contents. If 

 the present shelf room were doubled there would still be very 

 moderate space for that future increase of the herbarium which may 

 be reasonably expected. 



The present cases, though so much in advance of previous accom- 

 modation do not afford adequate protection from dust, and should be 

 fitted with dust-tight doors, and all new cases should be of the best 

 dust-proof construction. 



Respectfully submitted, 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



Meetings of the Section have been held regularly during the year 

 except during the summer months. The attendance has not been 

 large, but this has been due, in great part, to illness and absence 

 from the city of several active members. There has been no lack 

 of interest. The additions to the museum have been satisfactory. 



It is hoped that in the new building space and cases may be pro- 

 vided for a display of the minerals and rocks of the vicinity of our 

 city, for it is believed that the present small and poor local collec- 

 tion could easily be increased so as to be a most valuable and in- 

 teresting feature of the museum. 



The following officers have been elected for the ensuing year: — 



Director, ..... Theodore D. Rand. 



Vice- Director, 

 Conservator, 

 Treasurer, 



Correspondhui Secretary, 

 Recorder, 



W. W. Jefferis. 

 W. W. Jefferis. 

 John Ford. 

 Chas. Schiiffer, M.D. 

 Chas. Schiiffer, M.D. 



Respectfully submitted, 



TiiEO. D. Rand, Director. 




478 PJKOCEEUINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



REPORT OF THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Section is pleased to report that the Ornithological Department 

 of the Museum is in excellent condition as regards the preservation of 

 the specimens, and to note important progress in the work of reno- 

 vating the collection on the plans outlined in a previous report. 



The question having arisen as to the policy of remounting the 

 type specimens and duplicates unnecessary for display, as has been 

 the custom during the past two years, the Conservator consulted 

 several of the leading ornithologists of the world and obtained their 

 unqualified endorsement of the plans for the renovation of the collec- 

 tion recommended by the Section and adopted by the Curators. 



In view of the endorsement of R. Bowdler Sharpe, Robert Ridg- 

 way, and other high authorities we feel fully justified in the course 

 we have pursued and are convinced that the proper preservation of 

 our collection of birds is absolutely dependent upon the continuance 

 of the treatment that we have already outlined. 



Owing to the miscellaneous duties of the Conservator in his posi- 

 tion as Assistant to the Board of Curators, his work on the ornitho- 

 logical collection was mainly resti'icted to the summer months. At 

 this time, also, the Academy's taxidermist, Mr. David N. McCad- 

 den, was enabled to devote his entire time to this department, and 

 with the further valuable assistance of Messrs. Howard Y. Pennell 

 and Henry W. Fowler, it was possible to make greater progress with 

 the work of renovation than in any previous year. 



In all 5,907 mounted specimens were examined, catalogued, and 

 labelled, and then remounted or reduced to skins as the circum- 

 stances warranted. These included the Cicouiidte, Gruidse, Limicolse, 

 Gallinie, Colurabse, Dendrocolaptidoe, Formicariidse, Paridee, Buce- 

 rotidte, and part of the Fringillidse. In addition specimens of the 

 Corvidse, Paradisteidse, Icteridie, and Tanagridie which had pre- 

 viously been catalogued were remounted for exhibition. Several 

 temporary lists were also copied into the regular catalogue dui-ing 

 the year aggregating 7,029 entries, while all the accessions have 

 been labelled and placed in the proper places. The entire study 

 series of American birds has been carefully examined and found to 

 be in excellent condition. 



The principal accessions during the year have been small collec- 

 tions from Lower California, California, and Florida, received in 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



exchange or by purchase, and also numerous specimens from the 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia, among which may be mentioned 

 specimens of Struthio molyhdophanes and Dromius irroratus. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club has added many 

 attractive groups to the collection of Pennsylvania and New Jersey 

 birds which is rapidly approaching completion. 



At the annual meeting of the Section held December 17, 1894, 

 the following officers were elected: — 



Director, . . ' . 



Vice- Director, 



Recorder, 



Secretary, 



Treasurer and Coiiservator, 



Dr. Spencer Trotter. 

 Geo. S. Morris. 

 Stewardson Brown. 

 Chas. E. Ridenour. 

 Witmer Stone. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Wither Stone, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that, as heretofore, he has delivered his regular spring courses 

 of lectures, twenty-five in number, the attendance at w'hich has been 

 larger than in any previous year. These lectures, embracing in great 

 part the physiographic features of the region about Philadelphia, 

 were supplemented by weekly field parties, and by two special sum- 

 mer class excursions: one to the region of the Shawangunk and 

 Delaware Mountains, the other to the Bermuda Islands. On the 

 first of these excursions the methods of topographical surveying were 

 practically demonstrated in addition to the regular work in geology 

 and paleontology. Two new fossil-bearing localities in the Trias 

 were discovered in the course of the spring excursions. 



The collections in the department of Invertebrate Paleontology 

 have not been materially augmented during the year, nor has their 

 condition been very greatly changed. Much has been done to- 

 ward determining and redetermining unidentified or doubtful forms, 

 and from many specimens hitherto unofficially labelled — i.e., not 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



named hv the author of the species in question — the labels have 

 been removed. In a few cases, too, the authors' labels were found 

 to be incorrect, or at least so doubtful as to necessitate the affixing ot 

 an interrogation mark to the identification. The general changes 

 that had been made on the floor of the museum broke into the con- 

 tinuity of the arrangement that formerly existed, and necessitated a 

 considerable reversal in the disposition of the series. An almost full 

 readjustment has been made for the time being, but it cannot be said 

 to meet the actual requirements of the collection. Very nearly 

 double the case-room that the collection now occupies is needed for a 

 proper display of, and to meet additions to, the American fossils 

 alone, and the European collection, which is very disadvantageously 

 stored away in drawers, would occupy about as much space as the 

 American collection occupies at the present time. It is hoped that 

 with the occupation of the Academy's new building the proper relief 

 will be afforded this department. 



The additions to the collection during the year are included in 

 the list of accessions to the museum. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Prof, of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 



ARCHEOLOGY. 



I have to report that in the early months of the year I delivered 

 a course of lectures on general archaeology. They were six in num- 

 ber and were free to the public. The attendance was unusually 

 large, and a general interest was manifested in the subject. 



The collections in this department have been increased by valuable 

 accessions, which will be specified in the reports of the Curators. 

 The whole collection is now in process of rearrangement in a favor- 

 able location in the new building. 



D. G. Brinton, M.D., 

 Professor of Ethnology and Arch(Bology. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF LOWER INVER- 



TEBRATA. 



The Professor of Lower Invertebrata, respectfully reports that 

 during the past year he has delivered lectures on the results of the 

 Hawaiian Expedition. 



The additions to the museum during the year have been neither 

 numerous nor important. 



Work has been carried on in the carcinological department in re- 

 labelling and rearranging specimens. AVith the help of Dr. A. 

 Ortmann, the Porcellanidse have been correctly determined and re- 

 labelled. 



A course of lectures, ten in number, is planned to be delivered 

 wmetime during the spring on general zoology. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Benj. Sharp, 

 Professor of Loiver Invertebrata. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF HISTOLOGY AND 

 MICROSCOPIC TECHNOLOGY. 



The Professor of Histology and Microscopic Technology respect- 

 fully reports that he has conducted less than the usual work in the 

 bacteriological laboratory than in past years, owing to the fact that 

 the greater part of his time has been devoted to his duties as Execu- 

 tive Curator. Some satisfactory work, however, has been accom- 

 plished in bacteriological examinations of drinking waters in the 

 State of Pennsylvania, and in continued investigations upon the 

 various lines heretofore suggested for the prevention and cure of 

 tuberculosis and other germ diseases. 



Original investigations made during the winter on the relation- 

 ship between Tuberculosis and Nitrogenous Metabolism have been 

 communicated to the Academy and published in the Therapeutic 

 Gazette for December 15, 1894. 



Microscopic examinations have been made of the viscera of 

 animals which have died at the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens. 



The bacteriological laboratory has been freely used by members of 

 the Academy who desired the privilege, while the society has not 

 32 




482 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



been called upon directly or indirectly to defray the expenses incurred 

 for equipment or maintenance. 



Instruction has been given in the use of the microscope, but no 

 work has been done in histology. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Proj. of Histology and Microscopic Technology. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WM. S. VAUX 



COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Collections respectfully reports 

 that the cabinets have been in good condition during the past year. 

 They have, however, been inspected by but few persons, owing to the 

 unfavorable situation of the rooms in which they were arranged. 

 No additions have been made in the archceological section since the 

 donor's death. At the present time it is being i-emoved into the 

 new building where it will attract attention in connection with the 

 collection of Mr. Clarence B. Moore and others belonging to the 

 Academy. 



Since the last report 158 specimens have been added to the collec- 

 tion of minerals, several being new species. Their removal into the 

 new building has been completed without loss or injury to any of the 

 specimens. The cabinet has been placed in good order. It has been 

 arranged on the first floor of the new building where, in consequence 

 of the abundance of light, it can be exhibited to advantage. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Wm. W. Jefferis, 



Curator. 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



483 



The election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the Finance 

 Committee to serve during 1895, was held with the following re- 

 sult:^ 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three years. 



Finance Committee, 



General Isaac J. Wistar. 



Thomas Meehau. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Benjamin Sharp, M.D. 



George Vaux, Jr. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Henry C. Chapman, M.D. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M. D. 



Arthur Erwin Brown. 



Charles P. Perot. 



Dr. C. Newlin Peirc'e. 



Theodore D. Rand. 



George H. Horn, M.D. 



Charles Morris. 



Charles E. Smith. 



Uselma C. Smith. 



William Sellers. 



Charles P. Perot. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1894. 



MEMBERS. 



January 30. — William S. Vaux, Jr., Edward K. Tryon, Jr., 

 Dr. Gustavo Niederlein, Milton J. Greenman, M.D., Frank J. 

 Keely, J. Lewis Crew. 



February 27. — Ruth Clement, M.D., W. Graham Tyler. 



March ^7.— Theodore N. Ely. 



April 2 J/.. — A. B. Van der Wielen, Rev. Leander Trowbridge 

 Chamberlain, D.D., Charles G. Macey, J. W. Parker. 



May 29. — Theodore Presser, William J. Fox, Andrew J. Downs, 

 M.D., George E. Kirkpatrick, Henry P. Dixon. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



June 26. — Harris A. Slocum, M.D., Thomas S. Parvin, John 

 N. Hussey. 



October SO. — Horace Binder. 



November 27. — J. Carroll McCaffrey, William L. Whitaker. 



CORRESPONDENT. 



June 26. — Anstruther Davidson, of Los Angeles, Cal. 



I 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



1894. 



Archeology, Ethnology, etc. 



Rev. L. T. Chamberlain, Stone idol, Mexico. 

 Dr. S. G. Dixon. Casts of Mexican vase and idol. 

 Mrs. M. N. Frederick. Mortar and pestle, Argentine Republic. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Two aboriginal American crania. New York. 

 Dr. Geo. A. Rex, Stone axe, Philadelphia. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Aboriginal knee ornament, Colorado. 

 Dr. Benj. Sharp. A collection of Hawaiian implements, fifty-five 

 specimens and two trays. 



Mammals. 



A. E. Brown. Skin of Ursus cinnamomeus. 



Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Teeth and jaw of Physeter fnacrocephaius. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Disarticulated skeleton of Sus scrqfa L. Cast 

 of brain of Cynocephalus sp. 



Prof. E. D. Cope. Perognathus copei (type), Texas. Skull of Bison 

 bison. Adelonycteris fuseiis, Missouri. 



Dr. S- G. Dixon. Skeleton of Eskimo dog {Canisfamiliaris). 



F. L. Garrison, Mounted Caribou head. 



Wm. Justice. Three skins Evotomys, Adirondacks. 



D. N. McCadden. One disarticulated skeleton Tatusia novemcineta. 



Peary Relief Expedition. Twenty mammal skulls. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of Felis tigris, 

 Bison bison (juv.), Maeacus ochreatus, Capreolus eapreoius, Ere- 

 thizon dorsatus,Tcqnrus sp., Dasyproca acouchy, Felis eyra. 



Skins of Sciurus sp. (Java), Nandinia binotata, Felis caracal, Cerco- 

 pithecus albogularis, Felis eyra, F. yagouaroundi, Oalago garnettii, 

 Midas rufimanus. 



Skeletons of Ursus cinnamomeus, Canis familiar is, Felis leo, Camelus 

 dromedarius, Cervus porcinus, Felis tigris, F. eyra, F. yagou- 

 aroundi, F. caracal, Erethizon dorsatus, and two others. 



Skulls of Sciurus sp., Nandinia binotata, Felis eyra, and two others. 



Alcoholic specimens of Lemur varius (viscera), Felis concolor (juv.), 

 Maeacus &^. (fcetus), Oalago garnettii. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Two skulls and three alcoholic specimens, Florida. 



S. N. Rhoads. Four specimens Condylura cristata. Me. Two speci- 

 mens Blarina talpoides, Haddonfield, N. J. One jar Adelonycteris 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



fusGus, Tarpon Springs, Fla. Twelve skins and skulls and two 



alcoholic specimens, Waynesburg, Greene Co., Pa. 

 Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. One skull of Cants familiaris. 

 H. E. Sargent. Ten jars mammals. 

 J. Shulze. One skull Lutrahudsonica, Monroe Co., Pa. One skeleton 



of Lutra hudsonica, Monroe Co., Pa. 

 Wagner Institute, in exchange. Skins of Bassariscus, Neotoma, and 



Aplodo7itia, Oregon. 

 Dr. W. L. Zuill. Skeleton of Equus hurchelli. 

 Purchased. Mounted specimens Putorms erininea, Bergen Co., 



N. J. Erethizon dorsatus and Lutra hudsonica, Potter Co., Pa. 



One hundred and twenty-two skios, California (collected by U. B. 



Herron). 



Birds. 



Geo. B. Benners. Dendroica chi'ysoparia, Comal Co., Texas. Ceryle 



torquata, Laredo Co., Tex. 

 Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Skull of Struthio camelus. 

 C. S. Hebard. Anas cyanoptera, Florida. 

 Mrs. A. D. Hockley. Egg of Struthio camelus. 

 J. S. and W. H. Jenks, and Mrs. R, W. Randolph. Halioetus leuco- 



cephalus, Grus mexicanus. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of Gracula 



intermedia, Casuarius australis, Dromaius irroratus, Struthio 



molybdop hanes . 

 Skins of Lorius domicella, Cygnus nigricollis, Plectolophus nasica, 



Chi'ysolophus amherstice, Ortalida albiventris (3), Colinus cristatus, 



Fhasianus iorquatus, Conurus acuticaudatus, Eulabeia indica, 



Am.blyrhamphus holosericeus, Tadorna tadorna, Clophaga magella- 



nica, and two others. 

 Skulls and sterna of Anhinga anhinga, Milvus ictinus, and five others. 

 One skeleton. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Fifteen mounted specimens. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Dryobates borcalis (juv.), Florida. Polioptila ccerulea, 



Waynesburg, Pa. Podylimbus podiceps, Pike Co., Pa. 

 B. H. Vandecker, Jr. Forty-five skins from Guatemala. 

 Purchased. Aythya americana, Flamingo. Seventy-eight California 



skins collected by R. B. Herron. 

 By purchase and exchange. Fortj^-five skins from California, Florida, 



and Connecticut. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



A. P., S., and F. PI. Brown and W. Stone. Thirty-three jars reptiles 



and batrachians from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 

 E. D. Cope. Thirty-seven jars from Oklahoma, Texas, and Indiana. 

 H. C. Chapman, M.D. Three skulls. 




1894.] NATUKAI. SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



Dr. S. G. Dixon. Eumeces pentalineatus, Md. Seven jars reptiles, 



Maine. 

 J. Fannin. Gerrhonotus garnettii, Victoria, B. C. 

 Dr. \V E. Hughes. Three jars, Canada. 

 Howard Y. Peuuell. One jar, Pa. 

 Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Hyla maxima, Iguana tubercu- 



lata; Tesfudo tabulata, skin of Megalobatrachas '>naximus, and 



thirty-six jars, including a number of types. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Chrysemys picta, N. J. Fifty-four jars, Penua. 

 H. E. Sargent. One jar. 

 Harold Sharp. Anotis pj-incipalis. 

 Graham Spencer. Skin of Crotalus adamanteus. 

 F. Stearns. Three mounted turtles, Liu Kiu Isl. 

 Purchased. Daboia I'ussellii, Naja haje, casts of Megalobatrachus 



maximus, Iguana tuberculata. 



Fishes. 



J. R. Moore. Salmo blakistoni, Yezzo, Japan. 



D. N. JNIcCadden. Cottus viscosus, Port Kennedy, Pa. 



L. Woolman. One jar, Mustelus canis. 



C. D. Clark. Remora, Bay Head, N. J. 



Crustacea. 



Mrs. I. C. Martiudale. Two Limulus polyphemus. 

 S. N. Rhoads. One jar Cambarus, Greene Co., Pa. 



Echini, Worms, Corals, etc. 

 F. Stearns. Gorgonia, Liu Kiu Isl. 



Recent Mollusca, 



Edwin A. Barber. One tray Littorina irrorata from Longport, X. J. 



W. T. Bednall. Forty-one trays of South Australian mollusks, in- 

 cluding types of several Chitons. 



F. C. Blanes. Four trays and five bottles of mollusks from Cuba. 



S. and F. H. Brown and Witmer Stone. Ninety-six trays mollusks 

 from Cape May, Pt. Pleasant, Atlantic City, etc., etc., in N. J. 



F. Burns. One tray Anodonta fluviatilis from Washington, D. C. 

 Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. One tray of Unio nicklinianus Lea from 



Candalaria Lake, Mexico. 



G. H. Clapp. One tray of Polygyra hirsuta from Edge worth, Pa., 

 and one of Eulota fasciola from China. 



W. B. Clark. One tray Latirm subrostrata from Columbia. 



M. Cossmaun, in exch. One tray Planorbis Rollandi from Algeria. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Conchological Sectiou. CoUrmbariiua pagoda, Ischnochiton tigrinus 



and types of I. Elizabethensis. (Purchased.) 

 Dr. J. C. Cox. Seventy-two trays and six bottles of mollusca from 



Australia. 

 W. W. Dall. Eight trays of luollusks from Bahamas. 

 W. H. DeCamp. One tray of Polygyra plagioglossa from Mexico. 

 Mrs. H. E. Dwight. Eight trays of West Indian molhisks. 

 Dr. L. F. Flick. Pearl from Ostrcea virginiea. 

 John Ford, Fourteen trays of mollusks. 

 Jas. Green. Eight trays of molhisks from V^icksburg, Miss. 

 Chas. Hedley . One tray of GuncUacMa petterdi from S. Australia. 

 HeUpriu Expedition. Bulla occidentalis from Mexico. 

 J. B. Henderson. One tray and eighteen bottles of land mollusks 



from Jamaica. 

 Mrs. A. Hockley. One Tridacna gigas. 

 Geo. C. Hubbard. Pupa holzitigeri from St. Cloud, Minn. 

 Dr. W. E. Hughes. Polygyra dentifera from Lac aux Sables, Prov. 



Q., Canada. 

 Prof. F. W. Hutton. Helcloniscus flavus, Patella kermadeoensis, and 



Chiton canaliculatas from New Zealand. 

 J. E. Ives. Littorina litorea and Purpura lapillus from Gloucester, 



Mass. 

 W. W. Jefferis. One tray Unio complanatus from Hudson River, 



N. Y. 

 C. W. Johnson. One tray Actceon punctostriatus from Micco, 



Indian River, Fla. Bulla adansoni from Corsico, W. Africa. 

 H. Lemon. Ajilysia cast up at Cape May, N. J. 

 Geo. Lichteuthaler coll. Two trays of marine mollusks. 

 W. L. Lockington. One tray Trachydermon raymondi. 

 Geo. T. Marston. Valvata sineera from Madison, Wis. 

 J. R. Mead. Anodonta bealei and Unio parvus from Panther Creek, 



Kingman Co., Kas. 

 Miss K. Mussou. One tray Polygyra thyroides, Ashbourne Heights, 



Pa. 

 C. J. Newcombe. Eleven trays of mollusks from Victoria, B. C. 

 H. A. Pilsbry. Helix fultoni from Khasi Hills, India. Chiton dis- 

 color from New Caledonia. Ancylus 2^cc'>^ci,i^6lus from Lebanon 



Springs, N. Y., and Polygyra multilineata from Iowa City, Iowa. 



Unio trajjezoides from Ark. 

 H. A. Pilsbry and J. E. Ives Four trays of mollusca from Pa., lud., 



andW. Va. 

 Purchased. Argonauta argo, Palm Beach, south of Lake Worth, 



Florida. 

 W.J. Raymond. Three trays Trachydermon raymondi from Cali- 

 fornia. Types. 

 S. N. Rhoads. Twentj'-eight trays and nine bottles of mollusca from 



Greene Co., Pa. Vitroea arborea from Sea Girt N. J. 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



Johu Ritchie, Jr. Specimens of Gibbula richardi, Monodonta lugu- 



bris, aud Philomycus carolinensis. 

 E. W. Roper. Tj-pes of Bulla roperiana and tray of B. sfriala from 



the Balearic Isles. Type of Patella kermadecensis from Kerma- 



dec Isls. 

 H. E. Sargent. Seventeen trays of mollusks from Alabama. 

 M. Schick, One tray and one bottle of Helix alauda from Cuba. 

 Ida M. Shepard. Collection of Californian shells in exchange. 

 Dr. H. Skinner. LiUorina ii-rorata ; one tray from Anglesea, N. J. 

 Dr. H. A. Slocum. Collection of mollusks from raised beach in 



Sweden. 

 Fr. Stearns. Thirty-five trays of mollusks from Japan ; one bottle 



of Bulla goiddiana from Coronado, Cal. 

 L. H. Strang. Nassa exilis from Panama ; Goniobasis alabamensis 



from Ala. 

 S. Stupakoff. Six trar^'s mollusks from Pa. and 111. 

 H. Suter. One tray Gundlachia woodsi from. River Avon, and one 



bottle of Plaxiphora terminalis from N. Zealand ; nine trays land 



shells from N. Zealand. 

 E. G. Vanatta. Twenty-two traj's of mollusks. 

 H. A. Van Nostrand. Five trays of mollusks from Japan, presented 



through S. R. Roberts. 

 Geo. W. Webster. Strobilops hubbardi from Lake Helen, Fla. 

 A. G. Wetherbj'. Numerous shells from North Carolina, Kentucky 



and Tennessee, including one of the original lot of Polygyra 



icetherbyi Bid. 

 Louis Woolman. One traj' Unio complanatus from Harrisonville, 



N. J; Chyrsodomus stimpsoni from Nantucket. 

 G. W. Wright. Odosfomia lactea from Auckland, New Zealand. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



E. D. Cope. Eleven species fossil vertebrata (7 types), Kansas, Okla- 

 homa, and Dakota, Cope Expedition, 1893. 

 H. C. Mercer. Earth and fossil bones from Hartman's Cave, Pa. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



H. C. Borden. Fossils from Leuola, N. J. 



Dr. H. C.^ McCook. Three ammonites. 



Dr. H. A.' Slocum. Three trays Orthoceras, Sweden. 



Lewis Woolman. Cretaceous fossils from Lenola, N. J. 



Plants. 



Prof. Benjamin Sharp. Sixty-nine species of Hawaiian plants; also 

 five photographic views of the same. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Dr. J. Bernard Brinton. Sixty species of plants, collected on Merritt's 

 Island, Florida, by A. A. Baldwin, in 1893. 



Alexander McElwee. Zinnia grandiflora and Piniis edulis, from New 

 Mexico. Cassia tora and Sesbania macrocarpa, introduced near 

 Lansdowne, Phila., and brought to notice by Prof. Macfarlane. 



Prof. Jos6 N. Rovirosa. Thirty-six species of ferns from Chiapas, 

 Mexico. 



I. C. Hatch. Cupressus maerocarpa, from Monterey, Cala. (Monte- 

 rey Cypress), Araucai'ia exoelsa, and Quercus suber (Cork Oak), 

 cultivated at Santa Cruz, Cal., also section of a young tree of the 

 latter. 



Mrs. Boss Lewers. Pyrola rotundifolia var. bracteata, Pyrola 

 apliylla, Heuchera niicrantha, Woodsia Oregana, and Pelkea 

 Bridgesii, from Reno Co., Nevada. 



Dr. Charles Schseffer. Hough's Sections of N. American woods. Parts 

 IV and V. 



William Trimble (through Dr. Schteffer). Specimens of double wal- 

 nuts, from Concordville, Pa. 



Joseph Walton. Chimonanthus fragnins, both in flower and in leaf: 

 a native of Japan, cultivated near Philadelphia. 



Prof. F. L. Scribner. Hieracium Scribneri and Car ex Austro-Caro- 

 linensis, from Tennessee. 



Prof. C. S. Sargent. Photographic copy of a likeness of Stephen 

 Elliott, botanist. 



Baron Ferdinand vou Midler (through Thos. Meehan). Twenty-two 

 species of Australian plants. 



Herbarium of Harvard University. Six hundred and forty-nine 

 species of plants collected by the Schlagenweit brothers in Thibet, 

 and in the Himalayas, in 1856. Fifty-one species collected in Nyassa- 

 land, Africa, by J. Buchanan, in 1891. Fifteen species collected in 

 Dominica, W. 1., by Ramage, and thirty-six species collected by 

 Beardsleeand Koford, mostly in North Carolina. 



Mrs. Susanna M. Gaskell. Double flowers of Anemone Hepatica, 

 from Swarthmore, Pa. 



J. B, Ellis. Thirty-first and thirty-second Centuries of North 

 American Fungi, named and arranged by Ellis and Everhart. 



Frederick Stearns. Polyporus (species), from Loo Choo Islands. 



J. Dolores Salaverria (through Prof. Sharp). Curious abnormal 

 growth of wood, from El Progres, San Salvador, Central America. 



Roberts Le Boutillier. Alpinia nutans and eight species 6f troi)ical 

 orchids cultivated by him. 



F. V. Coville, of U. S. Department of Agriculture, Division of Botany. 

 One hundred and thirty-seven species of plants collected by the 

 Death Valley Expedition in 1891. 



J. A. Crabtree. Viola rotundifolia, from Wissahickon, Phila. 



Andrew Steiuemann. Curious fastigiate and spiral stem of Aspara- 

 gus officinalis. 



1 




1894.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Mrs. Katharine Braudegee. Series of Californiau Ceanothl, illustra- 

 tive of her "Studies iu Ceanothus," consisting of thirteen species 

 and twenty -four varieties or forms, iu all eighty-seven sheets. 



Mrs. Fanny E. Briggs. Seven species plants from State of Washing- 

 ton. 



Dr. Lawrence Turnbull. Branch of oak with remarkable glomerate 

 clusters of galls. 



Benjamin H. Smith. Forty-seven species of plants collected by him 

 iu Colorado, New Mexico, and California. 



W. W. JefTeris. Fifteen species of plants collected by him near Fort 

 Edward, N. Y., also seed vessel of Nelumhium luteum, cultivated 

 at Saratoga Springs. 



W. Tell, Austin, Texas (through Thos. Meehau). Ipomcea pandu- 

 rata and Acalypha radians, from Austin, Texas. 



B. G. Ouderdonk, Texas (through Thos. Meehan). Antigonon cor- 

 datuin, native of Mexico, cultivated in Texas. 



Knut Bachlund. One hundred and ninety' species of Scandinavian 

 plants, collected by himself and others. 



Geo. E. Osterhout (through Thos. Meehan). Abnormal form (with- 

 out spurs) of Aquilegia cwriUea, from Colorado. 



T. Chalkley Palmer. Isoetes saccharata, from Elk River, Maryland. 



Prof. Thos. C. Porter. Seventeen species of plants from eastern 

 Pennsylvania. 



Thomas Meehan. Ninety-eight species of South African plants, 

 collected by Schlechter. Thirty-three species of exotic plants, 

 mostly from cultivation. Thirty -six species of North American 

 plaiats. 



John H. Redfield. Two hundred and fifty species of plants collected 

 by C. G. Pringle, in Jalisco, Mexico, in 1893. One hundred and 

 nineteen species of North American plants from J. H. Sand berg's 

 Botanical Exchange, Miuneapolis. 



Edward L. Rand and John H. Redfield. Thirty-seven species of 

 plants from Mount Desert, Maine, and neighboring islands, con- 

 tinuing a series representing the Flora of that region. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



C. C. Bartlett. Staurolite and Garnet, N. H. 



Mrs. G. W. Carpenter. Two hundred and ninety-four trays minerals. 



E. D. Cope. Calcite, Fort Supply, Oklahoma. 



Copper Queen Mining Co. Malachite, Azurite, Cuprite and Copper, 



Arizona. 

 E. A. Groth. Dolomite, Pa. Orthoelase, Beryl, Phila. 

 T. J. Lewis. Two specimens. 

 Thos. Nelson. One specimen. 

 Jas. W. Pearce. Orthoelase, Pa. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1894. 



Mrs. J. W. Queen. Basaltic column, Ireland. 



T. D. Rand. Sixteen specimens. 



J. E. Richardson. Enstatite, Bamle, Norway. 



Dr. B. Sharp. Sixteen trays lava, one tray Chrysolite, Hawaii. 



S. Tyson. Two trays. 



Purchased for Vaux collection. Two hundred and eighteen trays. 



Miscellaneous. 



J. Beaumont. Nests and alcoholic specimens of termites. 



Dr. Wm. Camac. Nests of termites. 



Rev. H. C. McCook. Wood bored by carpenter ants. 



W. W. Jefferis. Hornet's nest. 



Miss M. E. Lyndall. Malformed egg of common fowl. 



J. M. Whelen. Barometer. 



Women's Silk Culture Association. Six jars silk and cocoons. 




INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 



1894. 



Abies 359 



Acanthephyridai . . 397, 398, 411 

 Acanthochites .... 70, 74-84 



Acanthochitidse 74 



Acer 322, 341, 357, 358, 360, 363, 367. 



371, 373 



Aeerates 381 



Achlys 364 



Acrotoxa 420 



Adelonvcteris . . . 157,218,396 



^cacta"^ 419 



^gopiua 15 



^Egopsis 13 



^nolimnas 131 



^sculus 166 



Agenia 297 



Alces 218 



Alecthelia 132, 134 



Alnus 323, 366 



Alsophis 431, 441 



Alyson 303 



Amaurornis 131 



Amblyteles 185 



Amethysa 280 



Ametrida 181 



Amiva 199, 431, 436 



Aramophila 299, 300 



Ammoplanus 301 



Amnicola 12, 25 



Amnicolidse 25 



Amphiardis 425 



Ainphiesma 425 



Ampulioini 299, 300 



Auacrabro 307 



Anclstromina 306 



Anculosa 12, 26 



Ancylinse 24 



Ancylus 24 



Anemone 356 



Anisia 278 



Anodonta 30 



Anolis . 429,431,432,433,438-441 



Anomalodon 427, 428 



Anomphala 15 



Anous 115-118 



Anthostoma 344 



Anthostomella 338 



Anthrax 274, 275 



Autirrhinum 58 



Aphanolimnas .... 133, 149 



Aphilauthops 303 



Apleetrum 356, 378 



Aplomerus 190 



Aplostoma 15 



Aporus 298 



Aposphferia 358 



Aquilegia 334 



Arabis 352 



Aralia . . . 339, 341, 355, 362, ;.65 



Aramidopsls 133, 134 



Arctomys 218 



Arctostaphylos . . . 328, 347, 359 



Argyramceba 274 



Aristelliger 440, 441 



Arvicola 218, 226, 282, 283, 285-288, 



391 



Arvicolinse ... 227 



Asclepias 364 



Ascochyta 364 



Asllidc« 273 



Asimiua 344, 361 



Asinea 201 



Astatini 302, 305 



Astatus 305 



Aster 345 



Atalapha 156, 396 



Atya . . 397, 399, 407-410, 414-416 

 Atyaephyra . . 398,399,401,413 

 Atyidaj. . . 397,399,411,414-416 



AtyiniB 413 



Atyoida398, 399, 406, 410, 411, 413 



Auerswaldia 362 



Aulacomys 288 



Baccha 276 



Baceharis 379 



Baiomys 257 



Banchus 189 



Barljea 347 



Bascanium 426 



Bassus 190 



Bathynomus 191 



Bdellodrilus 450, 454 



Belonium 352 



Belvosia 278 




494 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



Benibecinus 304 



Bembex 801, 304 



Bembicina? 298, 301 



Bembicini 302, 304 



Bembidula 304 



Betula 165, 166, 346 



Bibiouidaj 271 



Bieusis . 132, 134 



Blfidaria 23 



Bison 98, 218 



Blarina. ...... 218, 269, 396 



Blepharipeza 277 



Boinbus 56 



Bombylidaj 274 



Bombylius . 275 



Borreria 379 



Bos 68 



Bothrodytes 426 



Bothrops 427 



Botiyodiplodia 363 



Botryosphaeria 362 



Botrytis 375 



Bothy nostethini . . . .302, 305 

 Bothynostethus . . 292, 301, 305 



Brachycistis • . 293 



Bradypus 182 



Branchiobdella 454 



Bruuella 337, 338, 355 



Bryophyllum 164 



Bufo 437 



Bythinella 26 



Cabalus 133, 139 



Cacocalyx 427 



Cakile 59, 355 



Calicurgus 297 



Callistochiton 70, 73 



Callochiton 70, 71 



Calobata 279, 419 



Calosphseria 342 



Calotes 428 



Camarosporium ...... 366 



Cambarus 453 



Campeloma 25 



Campoplex 188 



Canirallus 131, 132, 140 



Cauis 218, 393 



Capuodium 325 



Carex 375, 377 



Cariacus 218, 388 



Caridina 398, 399, 401-406, 410-416 



Carpinus 342 



Carya 325,359,363,373 



Cassandra 347, 370 



Castanea 169, 357 



Castanolimuas 133, 142 



Castor 218, 390 



Castoroides 218, 219 



Catocha 271 



Causus 428 



Ceanothus .• 353 



Cecidomyidse 271,419 



Cedrus 354 



Celastrus 343, 380 



Celestus 200 



Celtis . . 327, 332, 344, 360,366, 386 



Ceratophallus 426 



Cerceris 302 



Cercis 363 



Cercospora 378-381 



Cercosporella 378, 379 



Ceria 277 



Ceropales 292, 296 



Ceropaliui 296 



Cerotainia 274 



Cerviis 218, 389 



ChtetodJpuS 266 



Chaitomium 326 



Chajtopleura 70 



Chsetopsis 376 



Chelonia 36 



Chirouomidse 419 



Chiton .... 69, 70, 75, 76, 85, 87 



ChitonidiB 85 



Chlorion 299 



Choerouycteris 181 



Cholopus 182 



Choudrioderma 290 



Choriplax 70 



Chorostate 339 



Chrysopila 273 



Chrysops , 272 



Chrysotoxum 276 



Chyphotes 293, 294 



Ciboria 348 



Cladosporium 378 



Clitellaria 272 



Clypeospha3ria 329 



Cneiiiidophorus 198-200 



Cuicus 379 



Coelodus 65 



Coleocentrus 190 



Colletotrichum 372 



Coloptera 300 



Comj^somyia 279 



Condylura 396 



Couiophora 323 



Coniosporium 377 



Coniothyrinm 362 



€onus . . . . ■ 98 



Corethrura 131, 132, 134 



Corethruropsis 133 



Coruus 342 



Corticium 323 



Corylus 360, 361 



Coryneum 374 



Corynorhinus 182 




1894.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHII^ADELPHIA. 



495 



Coturuicops . . . 132, 133, 



Crabro 



Crabroniiitie 298, 



Crataegus 348, 



Crec'opsis 133, 



Creiuastus 



Crepldotus 



Crex 131, 132, 



Crossanthera 



Ciyptoplacidiv 



Cr.vptoplax 70, 75 



Cryptus 



Crystal Ins 



Cteniscus 



Cuculloea 



Cucurbitaria 



Culex 



Culieida? 



Cuphocera 



Cyathicula 



Cyclophis 



Cyclopidius 



Cydouia 



Cyliudrosporium .... 372, 



Cyuopithecus 



Cyphomyia. . 



Cyrenidaj 



Cyrtocentrus 



Cytinpora 359, 



Cytisporella 



Dacryomyees 



Daldiuia 



Dasypus 



Dendrophidiuni 



Dermatea 



Dermatella 



Dexia 



Dexidse 



Diachoea 



Diaphanella 



Diaporthe 338, 



Diatrype 



Diatrvpella 



Dicotyles 218, 



Dictya 



Didelphys 



Didineis 



Didymella 



Didyniium 



Didymosphiieria . < 



Dieiis 



Dinetiui 



Dinetus 



Dinoba.stis 



Diodontus 



Diplodia 



Diplophallus ....... 



Diploplectrini 302, 



145 



307 

 307 

 372 

 145 

 188 

 322 

 142 

 203 



85 

 ,85 

 187 



15 

 190 



65 

 334 

 271 

 271 

 278 

 349 

 427 

 182 

 374 

 374 

 182 

 419 



29 

 188 

 360 

 359 

 324 

 345 

 114 

 203 

 354 



278 

 278 

 289 



15 

 .339 

 343 

 344 

 219 

 277 

 388 

 303 

 335 

 290 

 335 

 295 

 305 

 305 



68 

 301 

 363 

 426 

 305 



Diploplectron 305 



l)i!)losis 419 



Dipsas 427 



IMpus 182 



Discodrilidie 449 



JJiseulia 295 



Discoinycetes 347 



Dolichopodidie 275 



DothJchiza 370 



Dothidea 345, 359 



Dothioreila 359 



Dracocephaluiu 58 



Dromic'us 428 



Drvmobius 202, 426, 427 



Drvolimuas 131, 133, 140 



Dveotvles . . ' 98 



Et'hinocystis ........ 366 



Echiuomvia 278 



Echthru.s"' 190 



Eclvtus 189 



Ediisa 13 



Elachipalpus 278 



Elachistodon 205 



Elasniosaurus 64 



Elephas 68, 181, 182 



Elis 295 



Elymus 349 



Eiiibaphlas 64 



Empidte . 275 



Emys 36 



EndodoLitidit 17 



Eudoxyla 342 



EutechluLis 427 



Eutomognathus 307 



Euulins 205, 206 



Ephydridaj 281 



EphVra 398, 400 



Ephvrinaj 398 



Epipompilus 296, 297 



Epomidiopteron 295 



Equus 67, 218 



Erax 274 



Erethizon 218, 393 



Erigonum 381 



Erineum 376 



Eristalis 276 



Erromemis 190 



Euatva 410 



EucalyptiLS 881 



Eucyphidea 397, 411 



Ell derma 182 



Eiihvalina 15 



Eulabeornis 131, 132, 135 



Eupleura 223, 224 



Euryzoiia .... 131, 132, 140, 141 



EiKsapyga 296 



Eutajiiia 425 



Eutypella 341 




496 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



Euxesta 280 



Evatya 399 



Evotomys 284, 391 



Exetastes 189 



Exogyra 64, 65 



Exolytus 186 



Exoprosopa 274 



Exorista 278 



Exystoii 190 



Felis 393 



Fiber 218, 391 



Fragaria 357 



Frasera 378, 379 



Fraximis. 326, 329, 331, 334, 358, 3(53 



Fusicladium 378 



Fusieoceum 359 



Gadidfe 47 



Galeocerdo . 63 



Galliuula 141 



Garrya 385 



Gastrudonta 16 



Gastrophilua 277 



Gaultheria 349 



Geomys 159, 160 



Geranomyia 271 



Geron 275 



Geum 354 



Gillia 25 



Gloesporium 370, 371 



Glyphyalinia 15 



Gonia 278 



Goniobasis 27, 29 



Gorytes 301, 303 



Gryphoea 64, 65 



Gymuocrex 131, 133, 134 



Habroptila 133, 134 



Haldea 425 



Halesia 339, 358, 361 



Hanleya 75, 84 



Haploplax 71 



Haplosporella 362 



Harpactopus . . 299 



HelarctoB 182 



Helianthus 336 



Helicella 13, 15 



HelicldEe 18 



Helicodes 13 



Helicoma 376 



Helicops 428 



Helix 21, 98 



Helotiella 350, 351 



Helotium 349 



Hemicaridina 401 



Hemiotomys 282 



Hemiteles 188 



Hendersonia 364, 365 



Hermetia 271 



Heteropelma • 188 



Heterosporiuni 381, 382 



Heterozoua 71 



Himautornis 131 



Hippoboscidte 281, 420 



Hippobosca 281 



Hippolyte 400 



Hodomys .... 226-230, 232, 234 



Holarehus 423 



Homelys 399 



Homo 218 



Hoplisnienus 185 



Hyalina 15 



Hyalinia 15 



Hydatina 15 



Hydnum 323 



Hvla 195, 423 



Hvlella 196 



Hylodes 438 



Hymeuomycetes 322 



Hymen Ilia" 386 



Hyospila 338 



Hyperalonia 274 



Hyphomycetes 375 



Hypoderraa 347 



Hyponyssou 304 



Hypotsenidia . . . .131, 132, 136 



Hypoxylou 345, 346 



Hysterium . 346 



Hysteromyxa 369 



Ichneumon 185 



Ilex 167, 359 



Illosporium 385 



Impatiens 54, 57 



Ipomoea 362, 369 



Iris 382 



Isariopsis 380 



Ischnoradsia 71 



l8chnochiton 70-73 



Ischuochitonidse 71 



Isodontia 299 



Isopyrum 380 



Juncus 348 



Jiiniperus 363 



Juriuia 277 



Kalraia 323 



Kauaiite 105 



Kittlizia 133 



Labra 306 



Lacertilia 198 



Laehnella 348, 349 



Lactuca 368 



Lamium 57 



Lamna 65 



Lamproderma 290 



Laphria 274 



Larra 301 



Larriui 302,305 



Larix 349 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



497 



Lasiosphseria 326 



LathjTus 58 



Lauxania 281 



Lemur 182 



Lephritis 280 



Lepidopleurus 70 



Leptictidffi 446 



Leptidse 1^73 



Leptocalamus 205 



Leptochelia 93 



Leptochiton 70 



Leptodactylus 196 



Leptogaster 273 



Leptognathiis 424 



Leptophis 203 



Leptosphajria 336, 3:^7 



Lepus 218, 270, 393 



Leucochila 23 



Levirana 197 



Lewinia 132, 134 



Limnsea 23 



Limnteinae 23 



Linineria 188 



Lininobaenus .... 131, 133, 146 



Limnobia. . 271,419 



Llmnocorax .... 131, 132, 147 



Liudera 354 



Liuospora 337 



Liocephalus .... 433, 436, 441 



Llodytes 425, 428 



Lioheterodou 427 



Liolophura 70, 87 



Liopeltis 427 



Liophallus 427 



Llquidambar 358 



Liriodeudron .... 330, 355, 365 



Lithodytes 196, 438 



Loboplax 76 



Lonicera 169, 171, 33S 



Lophidiuiu 333 



Lophiosphffiria 332 



Lophiostoma 332 



Lophyrus 70 



Lorica 70, 86 



Loricella 86 



Lucilia 279 



Lucilla 15 



Lupiuus . 355 



Lutra 155, 394 



Lutreola 394 



Lynx 218, 393 



Lvroda 305 



Lyrodiui 302, 305 



Macacus 182 



Madura 166 



MacrepistiuB 65 



Macroprotodon 427 



Macrosargus 271 



oo 



Macrosporiuni 382 



Magnolia 346, 349, 357 



Margaritana 30, 98 



Marsouia 373 



Masicera 278 



Mastodon 181, 182 



Mediterranea 15 



Megacrex 133, 134 



JNIegarrhiza 369 



IMegastizus 304 



Megatherium 182 



Melauconium -373 



Melauomma 328 



ISIellinini 302, 303 



Mellinus 303 



Melursus 182 



Meniscus 190 



Menispermum 376 



Mephitis ' . . 218, 394 



Mesoehorus 188 



Mesogramma 276 



]Mesograpta 276 



Mesoleius 189 



Mesoleptus 189 



Mesomphix 13, 14 



INIesostenus 187 



Methoca 294 



Metopia 278 



Meturoplax 77 



Microbembex 304 



IVIicrocera 386 



Micropeza 280 



Micropezidse 279, 419 



Microplax 69. 70 



Miersia 400 



Mimesa 300 



Miscophini 302, 305 



Miscophus 305 



Mollisia 349 



JNIonedula 301, 304 



]\Iopaliid8e 74 



Moreletia 14 



Morus 328 



Mucronoporus 323 



Muletia 113 



Mulio 276 



Murex 223 



Mus 159, 218 221, 390 



Musca 277, 279, 280, 419 



MuBcidEB 279, 419 



Mustela 394 



Mutilla 293 



MutillidiB 293 



Mutilhni 293 



Mynomes 282 



Myosorex 446 



Myriea 335 



Myrmecophaga 182 




498 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



Myrmosa 294 



Myrmosiui 293, 294 



Myzine 295 



Myzini 295 



Myziuini 295 



Myxosporium 372 



Natrix 425 



Nectomys 233 



Neetria 325 



Negundo .... 330, 343, 357, 360 



Neithea 65 



Nemotelus 272 



Neohelix 18 



Neolarra 292, 301 



Neolarrini 302, 304 



Neotoma . . 213-221, 225, 233, 239, 



242-250, 390 



Neotominie »•• • ■ 228 



Neozonitiiife 13 



Niteliopsis 305 



Notocyphini 296 



Notocyphus 296 



Notogouia 306 



Nycteribidte 281 



Nyeticebu8 182 



Nycticejus 157 



Nyctinomus 157 



Nysson 301, 303 



Nyssonini 302, 303 



Ochthera 281 



Ocydroinus 131, 139 



Oeyptera 277 



Ocvpteridaj 277 



CEdipus 194 



CEuanthe 367 



(Enothera 380 



CRstridse 277 



Olfersia 281 



Omphalioa 13, 17 



Ouithochiton 70, 88 



Oaychomys • 256 



Ophibolus 428 



Ophilia 278 



Ophiobolus 337 



Oplophorus 400 



Orrnia 279 



Oniidia 276 



Ornithomyia 281 



Ortalidye 280 



Ortalis 280 



Orthocentrus 190 



Ortygometra 132, 133 



Oryzomys 160 



Osceola 428 



Osmorrhiza 369 



Ostrea 65 



Otodus 63 



Ovularia 375 



Oxybelinse 298, 306 



Oxybelus 292, 306 



Oxycera 271 



Oxyc'heila 15 



Oxychilus 15 



Oxydendrum 352 



Paehygaster ... .... 419 



Pakemon 401, 413, 414 



Palinodes 299 



Paranyssou 304 



Parapompilus 296, 297 



Paratya 400 



Pareas 424 



Passaloecus 301 



Patella 208-212 



Patinella 354 



Patulopsis 14 



PedicLilaris 349 



Pelargonium 383 



Pemphredon 301 



Pemphredoninte .... 298. 300 



PemphredoDini 300 



Peuiophora 323 



Peimula 131, 133, 147 



Pepsis 292,296,297 



Peroguathus ....... 262-268 



Peromyscus 390 



Pestalozzia 374 



I^eziza 324 



Phalaridion 132, 133 



Phaseolus 380 



Phasiidte 277 



Pheueus 273 



Philanthini 302 



Philauthus 303 



Philomycidse 22 



Philomycus 22 



Philothainnus 203 



Phleospora 369 



Phleuni 3.36 



Phlyctfena 369 



Phoeogenes 186 



Phoma 357 



Phora 420 



Phoridffi 420 



Photiuia 325 



Photopsls 293 



Phris.sopoda 279 



Phygadeuou 186, 187 



PhVllachora 345 



Phyilosticta .... 354-358,371 



Physa 24 



Physegeuua 281 



Physidae 24 



Phvsocarpus . . 335, 358, 361, 365 



Pilacre 386 



Pinus 332 



Pison 306 



1 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



499 



Pisouopsis 306 



Placosphairia 359 



Planiceps 298 



Planorbiuae 24 



Plauorbis 12, 24 



Platanus 358, 372 



Platylabus 185, 186 



Platypalpus 275 



Plaxiphora 70, 74 



Plecia 271 



Pleuoculus 305 



Pleospbteria 332 



Pleospora 335 



Plesia 295 



Plesiites 295 



Plesiomma 274 



Plesiosaurus 65 



PJeuroceridiie 26 



Plicatula 65 



Podium 299 



Podosporiella 385 



Podosporiuiii 885 



Pogonaspis 204 



Polemistus 301 



Polita 15 



Polj'blastus 189 



Polygonum 374 



Polygyra 18-22 



Polymula • .... 368 



Polyporus 322 



PompilidjB 296 



Pompilini 296 



Pompilus 296, 297 



Populus .... 166, 333, 835, .370 



Poria 322, 823 



Porizon 188 



Porzana . . . .131, 132, 141, 143 



Porzauula 131, 133, 147 



PoteutlUa 853 



Procyon 155,218,394 



Propithecus 182 



Protohippu8 66 



Protosorex 446, 448 



Pruuus 844, 371 



Psammocrex 133 



Psammodynastcs 428 



Psammophila 800 



Psammophis 428 



Psammotherma 293 



Psen 800 



Psenini 300 



Pseudagenia 297 



Pseudaspis 427 



Pseudohelotium 849 



Pseudohyaliua 16 



Pseudohystricia 277 



Pseudotelphusinse 412 



Pseudovalsa 343 



Psilocephala 275 



Psilopus 275 



Psoralea 876 



Psychoda 419 



Psycbodida? 419 



Pterodrilus 449-4,54 



Pteroptila 277, 419 



Ptyssophorus 225-231 



Puccinia 885 



Pupa 28, 61 



Pupidte 23 



Putorius 152,218,394 



Pyrachm^on 188 



Pyramidula 17 



Pyrenochiiete 359 



Pyreuomycetes 325 



Pyreuopeziza 352 



Pyrenopl¥)ra .336 



Pyrus 165 



Quercus .... i'20, 846, 353, 356 



Rallicula 181, 1.33, 148 



Rallidai 130 



Ralllua 181, 182, 134, 140 



Ralliuse 130 



Rallites 132, 133 



Rallus 181, 1.S2, 135-149 



Ramularia 375, 376, 381 



Raugifer 98, 218 



Ranula 197 



Raphauus 59 



Reilhrodoutomys 161 



Rhadinsea ......... 428 



Rhexia 372 



Rhododendrou ,367 



Rhopalum 807 



Rhus 831,348,356,874 



Rhyssa 190 



Ribes 340, 379 



Robinia 58 



Rosellinia . . . 326,827,838,339 

 Rougetius . . . 180, 131, 182, 189 



Rumex 381 



Salieutia 195 



Saliu.s 297 



Salix 326, 330, 334, 358 



Salmo 60 



Sambucus . 336, 350, 358, 862, 882, 



383 



Sanguinaria 371 



Sapromyzidse 281 



Sapyga 295 



Sapygidse 295 



Sarcodexia 278 



Sarcophaga 278 



Sarcophagidse 278 



Sarcophagula 279 



Sarcophilodes 279 



Sargus 271, 272 




500 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



Saiothruia . . .131, 133, 134, 148 



Sassafras 370 



Saxifraga 163, 164 



Scalops 157, 21S, 396 



Seeliphron 299, 300 



Schizoptila 133, 134 



Schizoxylou 353 



Schkpuijachia 65 



Sciomyzidte 279 



Sciuropterus 159, 389 



Sciurus 158,218,389 



Scleroderris 354 



Scolia 295 



Scoliidse 294 



Scoliiui 294, 295 



Scytale 206 



Seleriite 109 



Selenites » • • 1^ 



Selenitidpe 12 



Seuecio 377 



Seuoinetopia 278 



Sepedon 279 



Septoria 366-369 



Sigmodon 160, 226 



.Simotes 424 



Sirococcus 358 



Sitomys . . 159,218,221,253-261 



Solanum 366 



Solenopeziza 352 



Sorex 394,395,447 



Soricidse 446 



Spazigaster 276 



Spelerpes 195 



Sphterella 334 



Sphteria 329, 344 



Sphajrium 29 



Sphterodactylus 440 



Sphaerouema 358 



Spheeropeziza 353 



Sphaii-ophthalma .... 293, 294 



Sphseropsideai 354 



Sphferopsis 361, 362, 383 



Sphecius 301,304 



SphegidsB 298 



Spheginte 298, 299 



Sphegiui 299 



Sphex 299 



Spilomeiia 301 



Sporodesmium 384 



Spumaria 290 



Stachylidium 377 



Stagouospora 357, 365 



Statice 378 



Steatite 455 



Steniolia 304 



Stenoehitou 71 



Sterna 115-118 



Stictis 352,353 



Stigmus 301 



Stilpnus 186 



Stizini 302, 304 



Stizua 301, 304 



Storeria 425 



Stratiomyidpe 271,419 



Strebla 281 



Streptothrix 375 



Strobilops 22 



Suecinea 23 



Succiueidse 23 



Symphoricarpos .... 338, 353 



Syuaptomys 391 



Syrphidaj 276, 419 



Syrphus 276 



Tabanidse 272 



Tabanus 273 



Tachina 278 



TachluidiB 277 



Tachvdromi 275 



Taehysphex 306 



Tachytes 306 



Tamias 218, 389 



Tanais 90-93 



Tautilla 204 



Tapesia 350 



Tatusia 111-113, 182 



Tecoma 367 



Telchospora. . . 329-331, 334, 366 



Teichosporella 329 



Telphusidit 412 



Telphiisinse 412 



Teouonia 242 



Tetanocera 279 



Tetramerodou 282 



Thalessa 190 



Thaliaua 59 



Therevidee 275 



Thersilochus 188 



Tilia 322, 359 



Tiphia 295 



Tiphiini 294, 295 



Tipulidte 271, 419 



Touicia 70 



Torula 377 



Trachycephalus 429, 441 



Trachypus 303 



Trachyradsia 71 



Trachytora 377 



Tragomma 13 



Trautvetteria 368 



TrematosphfTeria 329 



Tremellodou 323 



Tretomys 225, 231 



Trichfegum 385 



Trichobius 420 



Trichodactyliufe 412 



Tricholimuas 133, 135 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



501 



Trichopoda 



Trielis 



Trigouia 



Trigouopsis 



Trillium 371, 



Tiimerodytes 425, 



Trimetopon 



Triuodoutomys 



Triodopsis 20 



Triscolia 



Troglocaris . . . 398, 399, 401, 



Trollius 334, 



Tropidoclouium 



Trypeta 280, 



Trypetidie 280, 



Tryphon 188, 



Trypoxyloii 292, 



Trvpoxj'loniui 302, 



iVuga 374, 



Tul^ercularia 



Tiuritella 



Tvnipanis 



Ulmus 327, 332, 



Uugualia 431, 432, 



Uuio 30 



Uuiouidte 



Urauoplosus • . 



Urocyon 218, 



Urodella 



Urophora 



Ursus 119-128, 218, 



Vaccioium 325, 



Valeriana 



Valsa 340, 341, 360, 



277 

 295 



65 

 300 

 382 

 426 

 201 

 257 

 ,21 

 295 

 413 

 336 

 425 

 420 

 420 

 189 

 306 

 306 

 388 

 386 



65 

 352 

 372 

 436 

 , 98 



30 



65 

 394 

 194 

 280 

 394 

 352 

 362 

 363 



Valsaria 343 



Valvata 29 



Valvatidas 29 



Vancouveria 375 



Velocia 274 



Veutrideus 16 



Venturia 325 



Veratrum 364, 373 



Verticillus 18 



Vertigo 23 



VertigojjBis 23 



Vespa 56 



Vespertilio 157, 218, 396 



Vesperugo 157 



Viola 368 



Virginia 425 



Vitis 329, 343, 352 



Vitrea 15 



ViviparidV« 25 



Volucella 276 



Vulpes 182, 218, 393 



Willistonia . . . .> 278 



Wyethia 373 



Xenomys 226, 234, 237 



Xiphoeariua; 398, 411 



Xiphocaris 398-400, 413 



Xiphoeereus 438 



Xylocopa 56 



Zapornia ...... 132, 133, 143 



Zapus 392, 421, 422 



Zonitidie 12, 13 



Zonites 13, 14 



Zonitoides .......... 16 



Zonyaliua 14 




502 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1894. 



Additions to Museum, 485. 



Allen, Harrison, M.D. Crania 

 from the mounds of the St. 

 Johns River, Florida, 181. The 

 changes which take place in the 

 skull, coincident with shorten- 

 ing of the face-axis, 181. Hy- 

 perostosis on the inner side of 

 the human lower jaw, 182. Ob- 

 servations on Blarina brevicau- 

 da, 269. 



Annual Election, 483. 



Annual Reports, 461. 



Baker, Frank C. Further notes 

 on the embryonic whorls of the 

 Muricidtc, 222, 223. 



Ball, M. v., M.D. Report of 

 Microscopical and Biological 

 Section, 471. 



Binder, George A., announcement 

 of death of, 222. 



Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, report of, 471. 



Botanical Section, report of, 475. 



Brinton, D. G., M.D. Report of 

 Professor of Ethnology and Ar- 

 chaeology, 480. 



Brinton, J. Bernard, M.D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, 448. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. On the 

 true character and relationship 

 of Ursus cinnamomeus And. & 

 Bach., 110, 119. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. Ho- 

 mologies of the alisphenoid and 

 petromastoid bones in verte- 

 brates, 32. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. A supplemen- 

 tary note to Mr. Johnson's list 

 of "Jamaican dijjtera, 417, 419. 

 Some new bees of the genus 

 Perdita, 418. 



Committee on Hayden Memorial 

 Geological Award, report of, 

 443. 



Committees, standing, for 1894, 9. 



Conchological Section, report of, 

 473. 



Cope, Edw. D. Observations on 

 the geology of adjacent pans 

 of Oklahoma and Northwest 

 Texas, 61, 63. Third addition to a 

 knowledge of the Batrachia and 

 Reptilia of Costa Rica, 194, 207. 

 On a collection of Batrachia and 

 Reptilia from the Island of 

 Hainan, 291, 423. The Batra- 

 chia and Reptilia of the Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania West 

 Indian Expedition of 1890 and 

 1891 (Plates X, XI, XII), 417, 

 429. 



Correspondents elected, 484. 



Corresponding Secretary, report 

 of, 463. 



Cresson, H. T., announcement of 

 death of, 269. 



Curators, report of, 467. 



Davis, G. C. Some notes from a 

 study of the Provaucher Col- 

 lection of Ichneumonidse, 183, 

 184. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M.D. Report 

 of Curators, 467. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Histology and Micro- 

 scopic Technology, 481. 



Eakins, Thomas. The differential 

 action in animal locomotion of 

 certain muscles joassing more 

 than one joint, 150, 172. 



Elections of INIembers and Corre- 

 spondents during 1894, 483. 



Elhs, J. B., and B. M. Everhart. 

 New species of fungi from va- 

 rious localities, 289, 322. 



Entomological Section, report of, 

 474. 



Fischer, Paul, announcement of 

 death of, 10. 



Fowke, Gerard, and W. K. Moore- 



I 




1894.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



503 



head. Recent mound explora- 

 tion in Ohio, 269, 308. 



Fox, William J. A proposed 

 classification of the fossorial 

 hymenoptera of- North Amer- 

 ica, 289, 292. 



Gibson, J. Howard, announce- 

 ment of death of, 110. 



Goldsmith, E. Some volcanic 

 products from the Hawaiian 

 Islands (Plate VI), 9.5, 105. 



Hayden Memorial Geological 

 Award, report on, 443. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Paleonto- 

 logy, 479. 



Holmes, Oliver Wendell,- M.D., 

 announcement of death of, 289. 



Hvrtl, Joseph, aijuouncement of 

 death of, 289. 



Index to Genera, 493. 



Jeanes, Joseph, announcement of 

 death of, 417. 



Jeanes, Samuel, announcement 

 of death of, 417. 



Jefferis, W. W. Report of Cura- 

 tor of the Wm. S. V' aux Collec- 

 tions, 482. 



Johnson, Charles W. List of the 

 Diptera of Jamaica, with de- 

 scriptions of new species, 269, 

 271. 



Jordan, David Starr. Descrip- 

 tion of a new subspecies of 

 trout from McCloud River, Cali- 

 fornia, 9, 60. 



Keating, Wm. V., M. D., an- 

 nouncement of death of, llO. 



Librarian, report of, 464. 



Mclntyre, Archibald, announce- 

 ment of death of, 417. 



McKean, Henry Pratt, announce- 

 ment of death of, 10. 



Macfarlane, Dr. John. Move- 

 ments of plants under plates of 

 colored glass (no abstract), 417. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions 

 to the life histories of plants. 

 No. X : The origin of coreless 

 apples; The relations between 

 insects and the flowers of Im- 

 patiens fulva; Apetalism and 

 seed propulsion in Lamium 

 purpureum; Fruiting of Robi- 

 nia hispida; Vitality of seeds; 

 Apetalism in Sisymbrium thali- 

 ana, 10, -53. Contributions to 

 the life histories of plants, No. 



XI: Morphology of bractless 

 inflorescence ; Purple - leaved 

 plants; Origin of the apical cell; 

 Fall of the leaf in the Holly; 

 Bees and Honeysuckles, 150, 

 162. Report of Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 475. 



jNlembers elected, 483. 



Mercer, H. C. Re-exploration of 

 Hartmau's Cave in 1893, 62, 96. 



Merriam, C. Hart. A new Sub- 

 family of Murine rodents — the 

 Neotomiuaj — with description 

 of a new genus and species, and 

 a syncjpsis of the known forms 

 (Plate IX), 222, 225. Descrip- 

 tions of eight new species of 

 pocket mice (genus Perogna- 

 thus), 222, 262. 



Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, report of, 477. 



Moore, Clarence B. Certain 

 Sand Mounds of the St. Johns 

 River, Florida, 181. 



Moore, H. F. Tanais robustus, 

 a new species of Anisopoda 

 (Plate V), (il, 90. 



Moore, J. Percy. Pterodrilus, a 

 remarkable Discodrilid (Plate 

 XIII), 418, 449. 



Museum, additions to, 485. 



Nolan, Edw. J. Report of Re- 

 cording Secretary, 461. Report 

 of Librarian, 464. 



Officers, Councillors, and Mem- 

 bers of the Finance Committee 

 for 1895, 483. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 

 478. 



Ortmann, Dr. A. On a new 

 species of the Isopod genus 

 Bathynomus, 181, 191. A study 

 of the systematic and geograph- 

 ical distribution of the Decapod 

 familv Atyidie Kingslev, 289, 

 397. 



Peirce, C. Newlin, election to 

 Council, 110. 



Peterson, Robert E., announce- 

 ment jaf death of, 417. 



Pilsbry, H. A. Critical list of 

 moliusks collected in the Poto- 

 mac Valley (Plate I), 11. A 

 new Central American Pupa, 

 61. List of Port Jackson Chi- 

 tons collected by Dr Cox, with 

 a revision of Australian Acan- 

 thochitidse (Plates II, III, IV), 




504 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1894. 



61, 69. Patella Kermadecensis 

 (Plates VII, VIII), 207, 208. 

 Report of Conchological Sec- 

 tion, 473. 



Potts, Joseph D., announcemeDt 

 of death of, 9. 



Professor of Ethnology and Ar- 

 chaeology, report of, 480. 



Professor of Histology and Micro- 

 scopic Technology, 481. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleon- 

 tology, report of, 479. 



Professor of Lower Invertebrata, 

 report of, 481. 



Rand, Theodore D. The Sads- 

 bury Steatite, 443, 455. Report 

 of Miueralogical and Geological 

 Section, 477. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 

 461. 



Redfield, J. H. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 475. 



Report of Botanical Section, 475. 



Report of Committee on Hay den 

 Memorial Geological Award, 

 443. 



Report of Conchological Section, 

 473. 



Report of Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 463. 



Report of the Curator of the Wm. 

 S. Vaux Collections, 482. 



Report of Curators, 467. 



Report of Entomological Sec- 

 tion, 474. 



Report of Librarian, 464. 



Report of Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 471. 



Report of Miueralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 477. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 

 478. 



Report of Professor of Ethnology 

 and Archaeology, 480. 



Report of Professor of Histology 

 and Microscopic Technology, 

 481. 



Report of Professor of Inverte- 

 brate Paleontology, 479. 



Report of Professor of L^wer In- 

 vertebrata, 481. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 

 461. 



Rex, Geo. A., M.D. Diachoea 

 Thomasii, 289. 



Rhoads, Samuel N. Description 

 of a new Armadillo with re- 

 marks on the genus Muletia, 

 95, 111. Contributions to the 

 mammalogy of Florida, 150, 

 152. A contribution to the life 

 history of the Allegheny Cave 

 Rat, Neotoma magister Baird, 

 207, 213. Descriptions of four 

 new species and two subspecies 

 of white-footed mice from the 

 United States and British Co- 

 lumbia, 222, 253. Descriptions 

 of a new subgenus ancl new 

 species of Arvicoline rodents 

 from British Columbia and 

 Washington, 269, 282. Notes 

 on the mammals of Monroe and 

 Pike Counties, Pennsylvania, 

 290, 387. A new jumping mouse 

 from the Pacific Slope, 417, 421. 



Robb, Richard R., announcement 

 of death of, 9. 



Scott, W. B. The structure and 

 relationships of Ancodus, 417, 

 418. The osteology of Hy?eno- 

 don, 417, 443. A new Insecti- 

 vore from the White River 

 Beds, 417, 446. 



Sharp, Benj., M.D. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary, 463. 

 Report of Professor of Lower 

 Invertebrata, 481. 



Skinner, Henry, M.D. Report of 

 Entomological Section, 474. 



Smedley, Samuel L., announce- 

 ment of death of, 207. 



Standing Committees for 1894, 9. 



Stone, Witmer. A revision of the 

 genus Anous, 110, 115. A re- 

 view of the Old World Rallinae, 

 110, 130. Report of Ornitho- 

 logical Section, 478. 



Szabo, Joseph, announcement of 

 death of, 150. 



Van Beneden, P. J., announce- 

 ment of death of, 10. 



Whelen, Edw. S , announcement 

 of death of, 61. 



W^illiam S. Vaux Collections, re- 

 port on, 482. 



I 




Pi-oc.^ad.Nat. Sci.Plula. 18!)4. 



Hate I. 



h.r":r',rdel 



Geo S Harms 3cSQiia LithPhila 



PILSBKY, POTOMAC \^AI^LEY MOLLUSCA 





Proc.Acad.Nat . Sci.Phila . 1894. 



Plate 1. 





iiiBcry del 



Geo.S.Harns&Sone LitltPhiia. 



PILSBRV.AUSTHAI^IAN CHITONS. 





Pror. Arwi Not . Sci Philo 1 81H. 



Flatein 



Geo.S.Hamei^&OTie Litn ?hi.< 



PI LSBRV, AUSTRALIAN CHITONS 





Pron Arad Nat Sci Phila 1894 



Plate IV 



r:istry del. 



Geo.S.Harris&Sone LitKPhila 



PILSBRV, AUSTRALIAN CHITONS 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1894. 



Plate V. 



MOORE: TANAIS ROBUSTUS. 





Q 



< 



-J 



< 



X 



O 



CO 



f- 



U 



ID 



Q 



O 



oc 

 a. 



y 



z 



< 



U 

 -J 



o 



> 



X 





o 



o 





Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phlla. 1894. 



Plate VII 



lEVYTVPE CO., ENGBAVfcflS ASO PRINTERS, 



PILSBRY, PATELLA KERMADECENSIS. 





Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phlla. 1894. 



Plate VIII. 



J. Bndeham. Del. 



PILSBRY. PATELLA KERMADECENSIS. 





Proc Acad. Nat- Sci. Phlla. 1894. 



Plate IX 



MERRIAiW, THE NEOTOMIN^. 





Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phlla. i8 



Plate X. 



COPE, BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phlla. 1894. 



Plate XI, 



COPE, BATRACHIA AND REPTIl.lA. 





Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1894. 



Plate XII. 



COPE, BATRACHIA AND REPTILIA. 





Proc^ Acad. Nat Sci, Phila, 1894 



Plate XI 



MOORE ON PTERODRILUS. 











