



411 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1870. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



PRINTED FOR THE ACADEMY. 



1870. 





LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several Articles contributed by each. 

 Fur Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Bannister, H. M. A sketch of the classification of the American Anserinse. 130 

 Buckle}", S. B. Remarks on Dr. Asa Gray's Notes on Buckley's New 



Plants of Texas 135 



Cope, E. D. Observations on some Fishes new to the American Fauna, 



found at Newport, R. I., by Samuel Powell 118 



Gill, Theo. On some New Species of Fishes obtained by Prof. Orton, 



from the Maranon or Upper Amazon, and Napo Rivers 92 



Meehan, Thos. Cross fertilization and the law of sex in Euphorbia it 



On the Flowers of Aralia spinosa, L., and Hedera helix, L 107 



On the Stipules of Magnolia and Liriodendron 114 



Notes on Silphium laciniatum, L 117 



Bud Varieties , 128 



Meek, F. B. Descriptions of Fossils collected by the U. S. Geological 



Survey under the charge of Clarence King 5G 



Meek, F. B. and A. IT. Worthen. Note on the Relations of Syncladia, 



King, 1849, to the proposed genus Septopora, Prout, 1858 15 



Descriptions of New Species and Genera of Fossils from the Palaeozoic 



rocks of the Western States 22 



Ridgway, Robt. A new classification of the North American Falconida*, 



with descriptions of three New Species 138 



Streets, T. Hale. Remarks on Huxley's Classification of Birds 84 



Notice of some Crustacea of the Genus Libinia, with descriptions of 



four New Species 104 



Thomas, Prof. Cyrus. Descriptions of Grasshoppers from California 74 



/ & 33<S 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



1870. 



Jan. 4th, 1870. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Prof. Leidy called the attention of the members to a curious fossil, which 

 had been sent to him for examination last fall by Prof. Hayden. It was found 

 in Colorado, and loaned to the latter by Dr. Gehrung, of Colorado City. 

 Prof. L. remarked that when first received, the specimen strongly recalled to 

 his mind the upper part of the face of the wonderful Sivatherium of the Sivalik 

 Hills of India. It, however, presents so many peculiarities, that among other 

 conjectures he thought it might have pertained to the pelvis of a chelonian, 

 but had finally concluded that his first suspicion was the correct one. The 

 specimen corresponds with that portion of the face of Sivatherium comprising 

 the upper part of the nose together with the forehead and anterior horn cores. 

 As is described to be the case in the corresponding portion of the skull of 

 Sivatherium, all the bones comprising the fossil are completely coossified so as 

 to leave no trace of the original position of the sutures. The nasal and con- 

 tiguous bones are of great thickness, and as solid as Ihose generally of the 

 Sirenians. The animal to which the fossil belonged was nearly as large as 

 the Sivatherium. 



The horn cores are nearly like those of the latter in form, size, and relative 

 position to each other. They are conical knobs, slightly trilateral, and with 

 an obtusely rounded summit, which is more porous than the bone is else- 

 where. They are moderately divergent, and their summits project more over 

 their base externally than in Sivatherium. The space between the cores ex- 

 tending across the forehead forms a continuous concavity ; and the surface 

 from the end of the nose to the broken border of the fossil posterior to the 

 cores forms a moderate convexity. In Sivatherium the corresponding surface 

 from the slope of the forehead to the convex rise of the nasals forms a deep 

 concavity. 



The face, as formed by the nasals and their apparent conjunction with the 

 maxillae in advance of the horn cores, is very short in comparison with that 

 of Sivatherium. The coossified nasals are proportionately shorter, broader. 



1870.] 




I PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and stouter than in the latter animal. Their lateral borders are much more 

 obtuse, and they terminate in a broad, thick, notched point. The ends bor- 

 dering the notch are most thickened and porous, apparently indicating the 

 attachment of a long moveable snout. The nasals do not rise from the fore- 

 head in the vaulted manner so conspicuous in Sivatherium and Rhinoceros, but, 

 as previously indicated, simply continue the curvature of the forehead. 



One of the most remarkable characters of the fossil is the greater extent 

 backward of the lateral nasal notch than in Sivatherium. In this it ceases far 

 forward of the position of the iorn cores, situated above the orbits. In the 

 Colorado fossil the notch continues back and beneath the position of the horn 

 cores, where the nasals apparently become continuous with the mamillaries. 

 The relative position of the orbits cannot be ascertained, as all the contiguous 

 parts are broken away. They appear to have been situated behind the posi- 

 tion of the horn cores. 



Several measurements of the fossil are as follows : 



Distance from the centre of the summit of one horn core to tke other. ..10j in. 



Length of horn cores above level of the intervening space 5 " 



Length of lateral nasal notch A\ " 



Distance from end of nose to centre of space between the horn cores.... 6 " 



Breadth of nose midway between end and position of horn cores 4 " 



Breadth of face, where narrowed, below horn cores ~i\ " 



It is probable that the fossil may pertain to the same animal as the remains 

 from the Manvaises Terres of Nebraska, described under the name of Titano- 

 therium, but in the state of extreme uncertainty as to its collocation, it may 

 with equal probability be referred to other genera, perhaps to Megalomeryx, 

 or it may have been an American species of the Sivalherium. Under the cir- 

 cumstances it may be referred to a new genus, with the name of Megacerops 



CoLORADENSIS. 



Prof. 0. C. Marsh, of Yale College, exhibited a number of vertebrae of a 

 new Dinosaurian from the cretaceous green sand near Barnsboro', N. J. He 

 observed that they indicated a reptile allied to Iladrosaurus Foulkii Leidy, 

 but only about one half the size of that species. The specimens, although 

 all found in the same immediate neighborhood, were apparently portions of 

 three different individuals, only one of which was fully adult. They con- 

 sisted of several dorsal and lumbar vertebrae belonging to the Museum of Yale 

 College, and an anterior caudal vertebra recently presented to the collection 

 of the Academy by Dr. Leidy. These remains appear to be quite distinct from 

 those already described, and apparently belong to the same species, for which 

 Prof. Marsh proposed the name Iladrosaurus minor. Prof. Marsh also showed 

 the tooth of a new and very large Mosasaurus from the cretaceous of North 

 Carolina. It belonged to a very perfect right upper jaw, formerly in the col- 

 lection of the late Dr. Emmons, and now in the cabinet of Williams College. 

 The teeth of the specimen are remarkably short and thick, nearly round at 

 the base and their surface entirely without facets. The remains preserved 

 indicate a species of great, size, probably sixty feet in length, but with a head 

 and muzzle comparatively short. It was named Jlosasattrus crassidens. 



A peculiar caudal vertebra of a somewhat similar reptile from the lower 

 cretaceous marl bed, near Hornerstown, N. J., was likewise exhibited. It is 

 oue of a series in the museum of Yale College, and indicated a new Mosasaurus 

 of medium size, apparently belonging to the genus Leiodon. The articular 

 surfaces for the attachment of the chevron bones were in nearly the same 

 plane as the lower surface of the vertebra^, and not impressed as in Macrosaurus 

 prorigerand other allied species The presence of well developed diapophyses 

 in this part of the caudal series was another peculiarity of these vertebrae, 

 and indicated that the animal had a broad, muscular tail. The species was 

 therefore named Leiodon lalicaudus. 



Prof. Marsh stated in this connection that in the November number of Silli- 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



man's Journal be had proposed the name Halisaurua for a new genus of Mo- 

 sasauroid Reptiles, but as Halosaurus, essentially the same word, had pre- 

 viously been given to a genus of fishes, he wished to substitute for the former 

 the name of Baptosaurus. 



Prof. Marsh also showed a tooth of a rhinoceros from the mioeene of Squan- 

 kuni, N. J., which was the first authentic evidence of this animal east of the 



Mississippi River. It was found in the pits of the Squankum Marl (' pany, 



in the same layer with the remains of the Elotherium Leidyanum Marsh, and 

 was presented to the Yale Museum by Mr. 0. 15. Kiune. The tooth wa 

 last molar of the left under jaw, and indicated an animal about two-thirda 

 the size of the living Indian species. He proposed for it the name Rhino 

 malutinus. 



Jan. 11(7*. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



Prop. Leidy directed attention to some fossils, on which he made the fol- 

 lowing remarks : 



1. A specimen consisting of less than the half of a vertebral body, was sub- 

 mitted to my examination by Prof. Hayden, who obtained it last summer 

 during his geological survey. It is from Middle Park, Colorado, and Prof. 

 Hayden thinks was derived from a cretaceous formation. Similar specimens 

 were reported to be not uufrequent, and were known under the appellative of 

 " petrified horse hoofs." The fossil indicates an elongated form of caudal 

 vertebra of some large saurian. Much constricted towards the middle, such 

 specimens would be most liable to break in this position, and the halves from 

 their form might readily be taken, by the inexperienced in such matters, lor 

 what they are called. 



The vertebral body in its entire condition would resemble in form those of 

 Me.galosaurus, but in form and other characters bears a near resemblance to 

 those of Poicilopleuron Bucklandi. This is an extinct reptile from the oolitic 

 formation of Caen, in Normandy, described by Deslouchamps ; and remains 

 apparently of the same animal from the Wealden of Tilgate, England, have 

 also been described by Prof. Owen. 



Poicilopleuron has generally been viewed as a crocodilian reptile with bi- 

 concave vertebra?, but probably pertains to the dinosaurs. The /'. Buck! 

 is estimated by Deslouchamps to have been about 25 feet long. The Colorado 

 fossil indicates a much larger animal, having been more than one-third 

 greater. 



One of the most remarkable characters of the Poicilopleuron is the presence 

 of a large medullary cavity within the bodies of the vertebrae, paralleled 

 among living animals, so far as I know, only in the caudal vertebrae of the ox. 

 The same character is presented by the Colorado fossil. In the former animal 

 the cavi 

 Coloradc 



cavity occupi^o ^uv, iwr^. ...-, *~ 



by a few trabecular The sides of the cavity, converging below, are consti- 

 tuted by a layer two lines thick and as compaet as the walls of the medullary 

 cavity in the limb bones of most ordinary mammals. The upper third of the 

 interior of the body is occupied by the ordinary spongy substance which be- 

 comes more compacted ascending into the interior of the neural arch. The 

 cavernous structure of the Colorado fossil is occupied with crystalline calcite. 

 The estimated length of the vertebral body is six inches or more. The sides 

 are much narrowed towards the middle, and they are concavely depressed just 

 below the sutural conjunction of the neural arch. A narrow groove occupies 



1870.] 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the lower border of the body, as is indicated to be the case in the Tilgate 

 specimens. The posterior articular surface of the body is moderately de- 

 pressed, but its lower fourth curves forward, producing a thick, convex ledge 

 for the accommodation of a chevron. The breadth of the articular surface is 

 scarcely four inches, and its depth is about the same measurement. 



The species represented by the fossil maybe named Poiciloplecron valens. 

 Should the division of the medullary cavity of the vertebral body into smaller 

 recesses by trabeculas be significant of other characters indicating the Colo- 

 rado saurian to be distinct from Poicilopleuron, it might be named Antro- 

 demus. 



2. A collection of fossils from the cretaceous formation of Pickens Co., 

 Alabama, received from Dr. J. C. Nott, formerly of Mobile, indicates a mosa- 

 sauroid reptile apparently of the genus Clidastes, of Prof. Cope. The speci- 

 mens consist of an anterior portion of one ramus of the lower jaw, a portion 

 of the upper jaw, an axis and several dorsal vertebrae. The species was of 

 intermediate size to C. iguanavus of the cretaceous of New Jersey and C. 

 propython of Uniontown, Alabama. It may be named Clidastes intermedins. 

 The jaw fragments indicate more robust proportions than in C. propython. 

 The fragment of the lower jaw is 5 inches long and contains a series of 

 nine teeth ; the depth of the symphysis is one inch ; the depth below the 

 seventh tooth almost an inch and a quarter. 



The body of a dorsal vertebrae is almost an inch and a half long ; its ar- 

 ticular cup is a little over an inch wide and about three-fourths of an inch 

 vertically. The neural arch retains the zygosphene and zygantrum, indicat- 

 ing the iguanian character of the extinct reptile. 



Since communicating the above I have received for examination some 

 remains apparently of the same species, from the cretaceous formation of 

 Kansas. Among them are two nearly entire dentary bones, the length of 

 which is about eleven inches. They contain the bases of the teeth, indicating 

 the full series to be twelve. The more slender jaws of C. propython, with 

 the dentary bones about the same length, contain a series of about eighteen 

 teeth. 



3. The caudal vertebra represented in figures 15, 16, plate II, of the " Cre- 

 taceous Reptiles of the United States," indicates a reptile apparently of the 

 genus Leiodon or Macrosaurus. The constitution of the vertebra is the same 

 as in the caudals of the known species of this genus. It probably belongs to 

 the species described by Prof. Cope under the name of M. proriyer. 



4. The fine specimen of a fossil turtle exhibited to the Academy was loaned 

 by Mr. 0. C. Smith, of Amherst, Mass., through Prof. Hayden, for my exami- 

 nation. It was obtained, as the latter informs us, from the Bridger Group of 

 tertiary rocks, probably of miocene age, in the vicinity of Fort Bridger, 

 Wyoming. It appears to represent an extinct genus, approaching in char- 

 acter the existing Dermatemys of Central America, and was nearly of the size 

 and shape of Dermatemys Mawii, Gray, of Vera Cruz and Tabasco, C. A. 



The carapace in its general form and construction especially resembles that 

 of the latter. It has the same elongated vertebral plates and scutes. The 

 sternum is intermediate in its proportions and shape with those of Dermatemys 

 and Staarotypus. The interspaces of the carapace and sternum are very much 

 larger than in the former, but proportionately less than in the latter. The 

 pedicles of the sternum are not so deep as in Dermatemys, but are much wider. 

 The back part of the sternum, intermediate in its proportious with what it is 

 in Dermatemys and Staurotypus, ends in a posterior narrowly rounded ex- 

 tremity, not acute as in the latter, nor emarginate as in the former. Derma- 

 temys has two large scutes intervening between the unusually large inguinal 

 and axillary scutes. In Staurotypus the axillary and inguinal scutes meet 

 across the sternal pedicles. In our fossil a single large hexagonal scute in- 

 tervenes to the axillary and inguinal scutes. The latter are much larger 



[J 



au. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



than in Dermatemys, and extend in advance of the suture between the hvo- 

 and hypo- sternal plates. 



The name of Baptemys Wyomingensis is proposed for the turtle. When 

 complete the carapace has measured about one foot and a half in length by 

 one foot in breadth. The sternum has measured about one fool in length ; 

 the depth of its pedicles 4 inches, their breadtli 3 inches ; the Length of the 

 posterior extremity 4 inches, its breadth at base 4.! inches. 



It is probable that the specimen, from the same locality, upon which was 

 characterized the Emys Wyomingensis (Pr. A. N. S., 1869, 60,) belongs to the 

 same animal. 



5. Among a multitude of fragments of turtle shells obtained by Mr. J. Van 

 A. Carter from the same formation and locality in which the preceding speci- 

 men was found, there are many apparently of* the Trionyx guttatut (Pr. A. N. 

 S., 18G9, 66.) Some of the fragments pertain to an emydoid differing from 

 the preceding, but they are too imperfect to ascertain the exact generic char- 

 acters. In this species both the vertebral plates and scutes are proportion- 

 ately much wider in relation with their breadth than in Baptemys. The 

 scutes mentioned are deeply impressed, whereas in the latter their boundaries 

 are scarcely traceable. The series of vertebral plates from the first to the 

 eighth, inclusive, measure eight and a half inches. The fore part of the 

 sternum is truncate as in Dermatemys, but not so much produced. For the 

 species the name of Emys Stevensonianus is proposed, in honor of James 

 Stevenson, the companion and able assistant of Prof. Hayden in his geological 

 explorations of the west. 



Prof. 0. C. Marsh, of Yale College, exhibited a series of specimens of the 

 remains of birds from the cretaceous and tertiary of the United States, which 

 showed that this class was well represented during these periods, although 

 no species have yet been described from these formations in this country, and 

 none indeed from older rocks, since it now appears to be well established 

 that the bird-like foot-prints in the Connecticut Valley were made by Dinosau- 

 rian reptiles. Among the species shown were the remains of at least five species 

 of cretaceous birds, although but one, or possibly two, species have hitherto 

 been described from strata of this age in Europe. The present cretaceous 

 specimens were all found in the green sand of New Jersey, and with one ex- 

 ception in the middle marl bed. They are all mineralized, and in the same 

 state of preservation as the bones of extinct reptiles found with them in these 

 deposits, and hence are readily distinguished from the remains of recent birds 

 which have occasionally been found near the surface in the marl excavations 

 of New Jersey. 



The most interesting of the specimens exhibited was the distal portion of 

 a large and robust tibia, apparently of a swimming bird, about the size of a 

 goose ; it was found in the green sand at Birmingham, New Jersey, in the pits 

 of the Pemberton Marl Company. For this new genus and species Prof. 

 Marsh proposed the name Laornis Edvardsianus. Two species of small wad- 

 ing birds, which appear to have been allied to the Curlews, were also repre- 

 sented, each by the distal end of a tibia, and probably by some other less 

 characteristic portions. The larger of these species, which was found in the 

 green sand of the middle marl bed at Hornerstown, New Jersey, was named 

 Falmotringa littoralis, the smaller species, which was called Palwotringa vetus, was 

 founded on the specimen mentioned by Dr. Morton in his Synopsis of cretaceous 

 fossils (p. 32), which has since, however, been generally regarded as a recent 

 species. The specimen was found in the lowest marl bed at Arneytown, X. 

 J., and is now in the collection of the Academy. Portions of the humeri of 

 two small and closely allied species, apparently related to the Rail family, 

 were part of the series shown. They were found deep in the green sand of 

 the middle marl bed, near Hornerstown, N. J., in the pits of the Cream Eti 

 Marl Company. For the species thus represented the names Telmatornis prucut 

 and Telmatornis affinis were proposed. 



1870.] 




O PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The remains of several species of tertiary birds were also exhibited by Prof. 

 Marsh. Among these was the lower extremity of a tibia, closely resembling 

 that of some of the cranes. It was found in the miocene of the Niobrara 

 River, by Dr. F. V. Hayden, and is interesting as the only representative of a 

 fossil bird yet detected in the tertiary deposits west of the Mississippi. This 

 specimen, which belongs to the Academy, indicated a new species, which was 

 named Grus Haydeni. Another species of extinct birds was represented by 

 portions of a humerus and ulna, also in the collection of the Academy. They 

 were found many years since in the miocene of Maryland by Mr. T. A. Con- 

 rad. This species, which appears to be closely related to the Petrels, was 

 named Puffinus Conradii. Several other interesting specimens of bird remains 

 were shown, but most of them were not sufficiently characteristic to admit of 

 determination. With the exceptions already mentioned, the fossils exhibited 

 belonged to the museum of Yale College. 



Jan. 18th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



Jan. 25th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



Mr. Wharton said that the ore of the nickel mine at Gap, Lancaster Co., 

 Pa., consists substantially of a sulphide of iron, in which a small part of the 

 iron is replaced by nickel, copper and cobalt. This ore after washing is 

 smelted in a high furnace, and yields a matter about seven times as rich as the 

 ore in the valuable metals, that is, containing 10 to 15 per cent, of nickel and 

 cobalt and about one-third that quantity of copper. In this matter there are 

 found at rare intervals small lamellar crystalline bodies, having high metallic 

 lustre and pliability. In order to give a clearer idea of the nature of this 

 substance, or to discover perhaps something still more interesting, search 

 was made during several years of the mass remaining in each furnace bottom 

 after its extinguishment, in those instances where the matter had shown the 

 plates above named. Finally in such a bottom, definite cr3 r stals were found 

 in the cavities of the matter, which crystals, being subjected to analysis, 

 showed, Copper, 1-85 per cent. 



Nickel and Cobalt, 25-22 " 

 Iron, 64-10 " 



Sulphur, 8-90 " 



100-07. 



Supposing the copper to exist as CU2S there would remain of nickel, cobalt 

 and iron (whose atomic weight are nearly similar) 89-32, and of sulphur 8-43, 

 thus indicating the formula Rr,S. As a crystallized compound of this com- 

 position has perhaps not yet been described there is a certain scientific in- 

 terest in the observation made. 



The crystals are very highly magnetic, very readily taking and holding 

 polarity enough to cause a spicula to place itself in the line of the magnetic 

 meridian when floated upon a surface of water. Their color is about that of 

 zinc. 



The following Standing Committees were elected for 1870: 



[Jan. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



ANTHROPOLOGY. 



J. Aitken Meigs, 

 F. V. Hayden, 

 Henry S. Schell. 



COMPARATIVE ANATOMY. 

 Harrison Allen, 

 J. H. McQuillan, 

 Jos. Leidy. 



MAMMALOGY. 

 Harrison Allen, 

 E. D. Cope, 

 H. M/ Bellows. 



. ORNITHOLOGY. 

 B. Hoopes, 



W. P. TURNBULL, 



E. Shepparp. 



HERPETOLOGY. 



E. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 S. B. Howell. 



ICHTHYOLOGY. 



E. D. Cope, 

 Tiiaddeus Norris, 

 J. H. Redfield. 



ART ICU LATA. 



G. H. Horn, 



R. S. Kenderdine, 



H. M. Bellows. 



RAD I AT A. 



G. H. Horn, 

 J. G. Hunt, 

 R. S. Kenderdine. 



LIBRARY. 

 Jos. Leidy, 

 ' W. P. Turnbull, 

 Robt. Bridges. 



Dr, Chas. T. Hunter was elected a member. 



BOTANY. 

 E. DURAND, 



Tiios. Meehan, 

 Isaac Burk. 



vertebrate pal&ontoloq v 

 Jos. Leidy, 

 E. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen. 



INVERTEBRATE PAL.E0XT01. V. 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 W. M. Gabb, 

 H. C. Wood, Jr. 



MINERALOGY. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 



E. GOLDSCHMIDT, 

 JOS. WlLLCOX. 



STRA T1GRAPHIC GEOLOG Y. 

 J. P. Lesley, 

 B. S. Lyman, 



F. V. Hayden. 



PHYSICS. 



R. E. Rogers, 

 J. F. Frazer, 

 J. Warner. 



CHEMISTRY. 

 F. A. Genth, 

 R. Bridges, 

 E. Goldschmidt. 



INSTRUCTION AND LECTURES. 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 Wm. Mayburky, 

 H. M. Bellows. 



Feb. 1st. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication : 

 1870.] 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



"Note on the relations of Synocladia, King (1849) to the proposed 

 genus of Septopora, Prout (1858)." By F. B. Meek and A. H. 

 Worthen. 



The death of Mrs. E. H. Vaux was announced. 



Feb. 8th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



The death of Caleb S. Hallowell was announced. 

 Notice was given of the publication of the third number of the 

 Proceedings for 1869. 



Feb. 15th. 

 Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 

 Eight members present. 



Feb. TLA. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected Members : 



Chas. D. Reed, Jas. S. Martin and Theo. Harrison. 



March 1st. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Descriptions of new species and genera of Fossils from the Palaeo- 

 zoic Rocks of the Western States." By F. B. Meek and A. H. 

 Worthen. 



Prof. Leidy directed attention to a specimen received from the Smithsonian 

 Institution for examination, which he said was the upper two-thirds of the 

 right humerus of one of the extinct giant sloths, and was obtained in Central 

 America by Capt. J. M. Dow. It agrees so nearly in form, proportions and 

 size with the corresponding portion of the arm-bone of the Mylodon robuslus of 

 Buenos Ayres, as described and figured by Prof. Owen, as to render it probable 

 it may belong to the same species. 



The specimen is unworn, black, not petrified, has no adherent rock ma- 

 trix, and looks as if it had been obtained from alluvial mud. The interior of 

 the shaft presents a long wide cavity, which might be viewed as the medullary 

 cavity were it not that all the known extinct giant sloths have the limb bones 

 solid. There would perhaps have been less hesitation in deciding as to the 

 character of the cavity, were it not that comparatively recently a reverse con- 

 dition was observed in a bone where it would not have been anticipated. A 

 short time ago Mr. James Orton, of Rochester, N. Y., submitted for examination 

 a collection of bones from the valley of Quito, Ecuador, S. A. The specimens 

 were obtained at an altitude of 10,000 feet, and from Mr. Orton's account, were 

 imbedded in a cliff of unstratified silt 400 feet in height. Among the bones, 

 besides those of Horses, Lamas, etc., there was the femur apparently of a 

 Mastodon, but solid or devoid of a medullary cavity. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. It 



If the hollow interior be the natural condition of the Mylodon-YOka humerus 

 under inspection, it would not belong to Mylodon robwtue. Independently of 

 the cavity indicated, the bone is sufficiently different in size and form to indi- 

 cate a different species from the Mylodon Harlan, of North America. The hu- 

 merus from Oregon, described by Perkins (Am. Jour. Sci. 1841, xlii, 136), and 

 referred to the latter by Prof. Owen, is not only much larger, but it is of 

 greater breadth in relation with its antero-posterior diameter. The fragment 

 of a humerus from Big-Bone-Lick, Ky., represented in fig. 3, plate xiv of my 

 "Memoir on the Extinct Sloth Tribe," is somewhat smaller than the corres- 

 ponding part of the Oregon specimen, and is more compressed or wider in 

 comparison with the antero-posterior diameter. 



Prof. Leidy further observed that there appeared to be a point of some sig- 

 nificance in the anatomy of the mandible of Dromalherium silvestre worthy of 

 attention, though the appearance may turn out to be a deceptive one. Prof. 

 Emmons had discovered three isolated rami of mandibles of this most ancient 

 of American mammals in the triassic coal of North Carolina. Of the speci- 

 mens, one is represented in fig. 66 of Emmons' American Geology, repeated in 

 outline in fig. 650 of Dana's Geology. Another specimen Prof. Emmons pre- 

 sented to the Academy, and is contained in our museum. The point of inter- 

 est to which reference is made is the apparent absence of a condyle. This 

 process may have been lost, but in the two specimens seen by Prof. L. that 

 figured by Prof. Emmons, and that preserved in our museum a separation of 

 the process is not obvious. 



March 8th. 

 Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



Prof. Leidy made the following remarks : The reptilian remains from the 

 cretaceous formation near Fort Wallace, Kansas, presented to the Academy by 

 Dr. T. H. Turner, and described by Prof. Cope under the name of Elasmosaurus 

 platyurus, belong to an Enaliosaurian, as originally suggested by Prof. Cope. 

 The anatomical characters of the different regions of the vertebral column, 

 those of the shoulder and pelvic girdles, and of the preserved portions of the 

 skull and teeth, are decidedly Plesiosaurian. 



Prof. Cope has described the skeleton in a reversed position to the true one, 

 and in that view has represented it iu a restored condition in fig. 1, pi. ii. of 

 his "Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia and Reptilia," Pt. I, August, 1869, 

 published in advance for the fourteenth volume of the Transactions of the 

 American Philosophical Society. To explain the apparently anomalous and 

 reversed arrangement of the articular processes (zygapophyses) of the verte- 

 bra?, he has supposed that those as ordinarily existing are substituted by the 

 second set of articular processes (zygophene and zygantrum), as found in 

 serpents and iguanians (Proc. Bost Nat. Hist. Soc. xii, 265 ; Syn. Ext. Bat. 

 and' Rept. 42). 



The finding of a portion of the jaws, as reported by Dr. Turner, in the vi- 

 cinity of what Prof.Cope has supposed to be the cervical portion of the 

 skeleton, and which he considers as confirmatory of the view he has taken 

 of its position, without further consideration, is more than compensated in the 

 opposite end of the column terminating in a coossified axis and atlas, as is the 

 case also in the mature Plesiosaurus. The cup of the atlas still retains the 

 hemispherical occipital condyle. 



The Kansas saurian was wonderful for the length of its neck, far exceeding 

 in this respect the Plesiosaurus. The vertebrae in the specimen form a nearly 

 unbroken series to the seventy sixth inclusive. If we regard all as cervical 

 until the transverse processes begin to spring in part from the spinal arch, it 



1870.] 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



will comprise the extraordinary number of seventy-two. In the different spe- 

 cies of Plesiosaurus, so far as known, the number ranges from twenty-four to 

 forty-one. The length of the neck, independent of the head, was about twenty- 

 two feet. 



The cervical vertebrae successively increase in length to about the forty- 

 fourth, then remain nearly the same to the sixtieth, and afterwards gradually 

 decrease. The atlo-axis is about 2} inches long; the third cervical is 1 

 inches ; the tenth nearly 2 inches ; the twentieth 2J inches ; the thirtieth 3J 

 inches; the fortieth 4 inches ; the forty-fourth 4} inches, and so to the six- 

 tieth ; and the sixty-eighth to the last one about 3| inches, which is also about 

 the length of the succeeding four dorsals. 



The imperfections in the remainder of the vertebral column of the Kansas 

 saurian do not permit a positive estimate to be made of the comparative ex- 

 tent of the trunk and tail. 



A comparison cf the caudal vertebra; with isolated specimens from the cre- 

 taceous formations of Alabama, Mississippi and New Jersey, leaves but little 

 doubt that Elasmosaurus is identical with Disco sour us. Such also appears 

 originally to have been the opinion held by Prof. Cope in regard to a portion 

 of the same skeleton, which he referred to a species with the name of Disco- 

 saurvs carinatus (LeConte's Notes on the Geology of the Survey of the Union 

 Pacific Railroad, 1868, p. 68). 



Specimens of vertebral bodies from the New Jersey green sand, referred to 

 Cimoliasaurus (Cret. Rept. of the United States, pis. v, vi), and supposed by 

 me to belong to the posterior part of the column, are seen by comparison with 

 the Kansas skeleton to be cervical and perhaps anterior dorsals. The differ- 

 ence in the proportions of the corresponding vertebrae appear to indicate the 

 genus to be distinct from Discosaurus. 



The imperfect vertebral specimens from Arkansas, originally referred to 

 Brimosaurus (Pr. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1854, 72, pi. ii, figs. 1 3), are probably pos- 

 terior cervicals of Discosaurus. 



In the true view of Discosaurus and its allies, the so-called order of Strepto- 

 sauria (Proc. Bost. Nat. Hist. Soc. 18G9, 265 ; Synopsis Ext. Batr. and Rept., 

 40) fails to maintain its position. 



The extensive shoulder and pelvic girdles of the Kansas saurian, so much 

 like those of Plesiosaurus, were most probably provided with limbs constructed 

 like those of the latter animal. 



In its restored condition Discosaurus would appear to have resembled Plesio- 

 saurus in its form as ordinarily represented, excepting that it possessed a much 

 longer neck, one indeed that exceeded that of all known animals. We may 

 imagine this extraordinary creature, wilh its turtle-like body, paddling about, 

 at one moment darting its head a distanee of upwards of twenty feet into the 

 depths of the sea after its fish piey, at another into the air after some feathered 

 or other winged reptile, or perhaps, when near shore, even reaching so far as 

 to seize by the throat some biped dinosaur. 



Prof. Leidy subsequently exhibited fragments of a fossil mandible, upon 

 which he made the following remarks : The specimens were obtained by Prof. 

 F. V. Hayden from the tertiary rocks of the Bridger Group, near Fort Bridger, 

 Wyoming. They indicate a carnivorous animal, apparently of an extinct and 

 heretofore unknown genus. Unfortunately the teeth are lost, except portions 

 of some of the molars. The animal was larger than our Panther, and proba- 

 bly was a member of the same family, but with a relationship to the Ilyamas. 

 The portion of the jaw preserved nearly agrees in form with the corresponding 

 portion in the Cats, but its depth below the position of the teeth is propor- 

 tionately greater, resembling in this respect more the condition in the Striped 

 Hyajna. 



Remains of the canine alveolus indicate a tooth of more robust proportions 

 than in the latter animal. The symphysis pursues the course of the alveolus. 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



Of several mental foramina, the largest one is situated below tbe position of 

 the first premolar. 



The condyle holds the same relative height as in Tats. The back portion 

 of the jaw, including the coronoid process, is proportionately nut bo broad 

 in tbe latter. The masseteric fossa is shallower at its lower part., and is not 

 bounded by the everted base, but is defined a little above the latter in a curva- 

 ture sweeping from the condyle downward and forward to an angle about half- 

 way below the position of the last molar tooth. 



The molar teeth, of which there were five, completely occupied the space 

 back of the canine, as in some of the viverrine and musteline animals, there 

 being no hiatus in the series. All the molars were double-fanged, and none 

 appear to have been of the tubercular kind. 



The first premolar was the smallest, and the third premolar appears to have 

 been the largest tooth of the molar series. The fourth premolar was interme- 

 diate in size to the third and the last molar, whiah appears to have but little 

 exceeded this and the second premolar. 



The remains of the crown of the last molar indicate a bilobed tooth, appa- 

 rently like the sectorial molar of Felis, and without a heel. The crown of the 

 tooth in advance was provided with a well-developed heel, but the fore part 

 is too much broken to ascertain its form. The larger tooth in advance, the 

 third premolar, retains its heel, which has a subtrenchant fore and aft border, 

 and is bounded internally and externally by an oblique basal ridge. 



For the animal indicated by the fossil jaw, the name of l'atriojelis ulta is 

 proposed. The measurements of the specimen are as follow : 



Estimated length of lower jaw when complete G inches. 



Breadth of coronoid process at base If " 



Height at condyle, and below last molar tooth If " 



Height below first premolar l 



Length of molar series 3 



Breadth of crown of first molar tooth, 4J lines; second do., 8 lines ; third 

 do., 9 lines ; fourth do., 7f lines ; fifth do., 8 lines. 



Prof. Marsh exhibited specimens of the remains of a bird allied to the Tur- 

 key, which he considered as belonging to an extinct species. These remains 

 were said to have been found in the green sand of Monmouth Co., N. J., but 

 doubtless were from the post-tertiary above it. He proposed to name the 

 species Meleagris alius. 



Prof. Marsh also called attention to the tooth of a Peccary from the miocene 

 of Shark River, New Jersey. It is a second molar from the left side of the 

 lower jaw. He proposes to call the species to which it belonged Dicotyhs 

 antiquus. 



March 15 th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" Cross Fertilization and Law of Sex in Euphorbia." By Th 



Meehan. 



March 22d. 

 Dr Carson, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Thirty-six members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



1870.] 



omas 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



" Descriptions of Fossils collected during the U. S. Geol. Survey 

 under the charge of Clarence King." By F. B. Meek. 



Prof. Leidy exhibited specimens of ichthyodorulites, upon which be made 

 the following remarks : 



Xiphactinus audax. The genus and species are founded on an interesting 

 specimen belonging to the collection of the Smithsonian Institution, and ob- 

 tained from the cretaceous formation of Kansas by Dr. Sternberg. From the 

 want of symmetry in the base of the specimen, I suppose it to have been the 

 pectoral spiue of some huge siluroid fish. 



It is a broad sabre-shaped weapon, in its present condition sixteen inches 

 long, which is near its original length, if one may judge from the thinness and 

 rounding of the border at the broken end. At its middle it is nearly two inches 

 broad and almost seven and a half lines thick. It slightly narrows and be- 

 comes thinner towards the outer end, and becomes thicker and more narrow 

 approaching the base. An inch and a half from the latter it is thirteen and a 

 half lines thick and seventeen lines wide; and the same distance from the 

 outer end it is the fourth of an inch thick and twenty lines wide. The anterior 

 convex border is rounded at first, but becomes subacute at its outer part. The 

 posterior concave border is rather more obtuse. 



A large groove commences back ot the root, extending outwardly, becoming 

 contracted and deeper, and opening to its bottom along the under part of the 

 spine to its outer extremity. The bottom of the groove is irregularly pitted, and 

 its upper surface formed by the overhanging posterior portion of the spine is 

 transversely corrugated or striated. A similar but shallower groove com- 

 mences in front of the root, and extending outwardly opens beneath the spine 

 at the anterior half of its surface. 



The upper surface of the spine is nearly flat and longitudinally striated, ex- 

 cept at the outer part of the anterior border, where the striation is finer and 

 curves forward. 



The root of the spine turns up into a sort of hook- like process, broken at 

 the end. It has been about two and a half inches in height from a level with 

 the inferior surface of the spine. The inner part of the root forms a vertical 

 oblong convexity, the lower half of which is occupied by a raised facet, appa- 

 rently an articular surface, upon which the spine moved. 



Prof. Agassiz, in his Poissons Fossiles, has described specimens of ichthyo- 

 dorulites from the chalk of Lewes, England, which he referred to placoid fishes 

 of the genus Ptychodus, " from the circumstance of their constant occurrence 

 in the same localities " as teeth upon which the genus was first established. 

 These rays are especially remarkable for their segmented character. " Instead 

 of being composed of a single piece, as in other genera, they consist of flat 

 rods, or rather broad, thick plates intimately united, but rendered distinct on 

 the surface of the ray by longitudinal grooves." Without question as to the 

 reference of these rays, I exhibit several similar specimens from the cretaceous 

 formation of Kansas, submitted to my examination by the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution. The same collection of fossils, of which the rays were part, also con- 

 tained many teeth of Ptychodus Morloni, but I am uninformed whether they 

 were found in association. 



The specimens are probably two fragments of the same ray, but an interme- 

 diate piece is wanting, and they are imperfect at the opposite ends. They also 

 appear to be somewhat compressed from pressure. As a whole the ray is flat 

 at the sides, with a thickened, convex, posterior border, and an acute dentated 

 or festooned anterior border. The dentate processes are composed of a denser 

 tissue than the rest of the ray, and are thickened in a line from the point to 

 the base. The body of the ray is composed of longitudinally oblique bars as- 

 cending from the posterior border to the bases of the dentate processes in 

 which they are merged. The longer and broader fragment is four and three- 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1:'. 



quarter inches long and three-quarters of an inch wide, gradually tapering to 

 seven lines, and is provided with about seven and a half dentate proce 

 The other fragment is three and three-quarter inches long, seven lines wide 

 below, and four lines at the broken apex, and is provided with nine dentate 

 processes. 



The segmented condition of the ray recalls to mind a singular fossil speci- 

 men formerly described by me as the portion of a jaw of a fish to which the 

 name of Edestus vorax (Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. iii, 159, pi. 15) was given, and 

 which also exhibits a segmented condition. This fossil, notwithstanding its 

 jaw-like appearance furnished with shark-like teeth, I have always suspected 

 was an ichthyodorulite (Proc. 1856, 301), and this suspicion is increased by 

 an examination of the rays supposed to pertain to Ptychodus. 



Asteracanthus siderius. The species is founded on a fragment of an 

 ichthyodorulite, found on a stream near Glasgow, Tennessee. The specimen 

 was submitted to my examination by Prof. J. M. Safford, through Prof, llayden. 

 It purports to be of subcarboniferous age, but perhaps this is an error, for all 

 the previous known fossils attributed to the genus are of much later age. It 

 looks as if in its complete condition it had approximated in size the dorsal 

 spine of Asteracanlhus ornatissimux, which is a foot and a half long. The frag- 

 ment is from an intermediate position at the junction of the root and shaft, and 

 is a little over three inches in length. Broken at the extremities, and posteri- 

 orly, so as to leave no remains of a groove, it is composed of solid porous bone, 

 and is triangular in transverse section. The triangle of the shaft has a base 

 seven lines thick ; the sides are about three-fourths of an inch wide, and the 

 apex is rounded. The root is compressed laterally to a greater degree than 

 the bottom of the shaft, and in the fragment is an inch and a half wide. 



The lateral surfaces of the shaft are closely covered with large mammillary 

 tubercles, which have been worn off at the summits. These tubercles are of 

 enamel-like hardness, brown and lustrous. Their sides are closely and longi- 

 tudinally wrinkled; the fewer wrinkles near the apex becoming branched ami 

 more numerous approaching the base. The tubercles are situated in parallel 

 longitudinal rows, having a slight obliquity. The intervals formed by the 

 divergence of the longer rows near the root are occupied by shorter rows. 

 About thirteen rows, including the short ones, may be counted on one side of 

 the specimen at the verge of the root. 



Prop. Leidy further observed that the two fossils presented this evening by 

 Henry Green, of Elizabeth, Jo Daviess Co., Illinois, through Dr. Edward D. 

 Kittoe, of Galena, were of considerable interest. They consist of a metacarpal 

 bone of the Giant Sloth of Jefferson {Megalonyx Jeffersoni), and a last lower 

 grinder of the extinct Ox, Bison antiquus. They were discovered, in the search 

 for lead, iu a narrow crevice of the lead-bearing rocks, at the depth of 130 

 feet, in the vicinity of Galena. A number of other bones were found at the 

 same time, but, unfortunately for the interests of science, these are scattered 



or lost. . 



The museum of the Academy contains fossils which were found in a similar 

 position in the same locality some years back. Of these, some were presented 

 by Dr LeConte, who obtained them from Mr. Snyder of Galena; others were 

 presented by my friend Dr. Kittoe. They consist of remains of an extinct 

 Peccary, Platygonus compressus, larger than the existing species; an extinct 

 Raccoon, Proa/on priscus, and a large insectivore, named in honor of Mr. bny- 

 der, Anomodon Snyderi. These animals were probably cotemporanes of the 

 former. 



Mr Thomas Meehan said that no one who examined the prevailing theories 

 concerning the formation of bark and wood with numerous living specimens 

 before him, could be satisfied that these theories were in all respects correct. 

 He had made numerous observations during the past year, which satisfied nm 

 that at any rate we had much to learn. He hoped to present these observa- 



1870.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tions to the members at some future time, but at present wished only to direct 

 their attention to a portion of a trunk of Yucca alafolia, Avhich lie exhibited, 

 the structure of which he suggested could not be accounted for on any theory 

 generally known. The general idea was that the sap of plants ascended through 

 the system, and was elaborated in the leaves, where the woody matter was 

 formed, and afterwards descended, in exogenous plants forming a regular con- 

 centric layer over the last year's wood, and in endogenous structures returning 

 by the interior, pushing these descending columns of wood through the mass 

 of cellular matter without order or system. 



It would be seen that in this endogenous Yucca the woody matter, if it ever 

 descended at all, as our present belief demanded it should do, had descended in 

 a very regular and beautiful manner, quite as systematic, in fact, as most exo- 

 gens would do. The wood was arranged in annual rings, not entirely con- 

 centric ; but some tropical exogens did not have the woody annual layers al- 

 ways forming an entire circle any more than in this. In this case the annual 

 layers of wood extended about two-thirds of the distance round the axis, and 

 such layer was about the eighth of an inch thick. These annual layers were 

 made visible by the bundles of fibres being packed more closely together to- 

 wards the end of the season's growth, just as they are in exogens, from which, 

 indeed, there was very little to distinguish this structure on a cursory exami- 

 nation but the absence of the so-called medullary rays. 



March 29th. 

 The President, Dp.. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



A resolution to amend Art. XI, Chapter 10 of the By-Laws by 

 the omission of the word " gratuitous," was adopted after a third 

 reading. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Geo. Hewston, W. H. Eisenbrey and Alfred Tucker. 



On favorable report of the committees the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



Cross fertilization and the law of sex in EUPHORBIA. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



Mr. Charles Darwin's interesting observations on cross fertilization have 

 opened a new world for original discovery. The list of plants which seem to 

 avoid self fertilization is already very large. I think Euphorbia may be added 

 to the number. Certainly'this is the case with Euphorbia fulg ens, Karw. (E. 

 Jacguinajlora, Hook.) which I have watched very closely in my greenhouse 

 this winter. Several days before the stameus burst through the involucre, 

 which closely invests them, the pistil with its ovarium on the long pedicel 

 has protruded itself beyond, exposed its stigmatic surfaces, and received the 

 pollen from the neighboring flowers. The way in which the pollen scatters 

 itself is curious. In most flowers a slight jar or a breath of wind will waft 

 the pollen to the stigmas, but I have not been able to notice any to leave the 

 flowers in this way; for as soon as the anther cells burst the whole stamen 

 falls from its filament like pedicel and either drops at once on the pistils of 

 other flowers cr scatters its pollen grains by the force of the fall. 



This Euphorbia also furnishes another contribution to the theory of sex 

 which I have advanced. The plan on which the male and female organs are 

 formed is evidently a common one; and the only reason why some flower 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 > 



beads have a pistil in the centpr, and others are wholly staminate, is, 

 there is greater axial vigor when the female flower is formed. Whenever the com- 

 mon peduncle (below the scarlet involucre) is weak, a pistil never appi 

 in that head of flowers. A few which seem strong neither hav tin m, but 

 the great majority of the strong peduncles are those which bear the female 

 blossoms. Another interesting fact is that the number of male flowers i 

 in those heads which also bear a female, than in those which are wholly 

 staminate. This seems to add to the point I made in my paper on Ambi 

 that after the flowers have been partially formed in embryo, and before 

 sex has been finally determined, the female flower, being primordially the 

 stronger, has the power of absorbing the mules or their partially formed 

 merits into its system. It is certainly remarkable that in both these instances 

 the number of male flowers should decrease in proportion to the existence or 

 vigor of the central female one. 



The male and female flowers of Euphorbia fulgens are formed much alike. 

 The female occupies the center, and seems really but a prolongation of the 

 main stem, on the top of which is an articulation from which the ovarium 

 springs. The capsula readily falls from this articulation when mature. From 

 the base of the female central peduncle spring weaker peduncles, color! 

 appearing indeed almost like filaments, articulated at about the same height 

 as the female, only above the point bearing a short filament and anther the 

 caduceous part before referred to. No one can fail to see the correspondence 

 of plan in these, different parts, and I think that nothing but the favorable 

 position in the direct line of axial vigor made the central flower a female one. 



Cases occasionally occur in which a tolerably strong head of wholly male 

 flowers will develop the central axis into a pedicel almost as lung and vigorous 

 as those which bear female flowers. But the flow of vital force if 1 am correct 

 in using this term not being quite sufficient, the- final goal of natural per- 

 fection in the female form was not reached. These cases do not occur often, 

 but are well worth looking for, as they show so clearly the dividing line be- 

 tween the forces which govern the male or female sex. 



Note on the Relations of SYNOCLADIA, King, 1849, to the Proposed Genus 



SEPTOPORA, Prout, 1858.* 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN, 



Of the Illinois State Geological Survey. 



Not having studied the Polyzoa of our rocks, it was only recently that we 

 noticed the remarkable agreement between the fossil from the Chester division 

 of the Lower Carboniferous, on which Dr. Prout proposed to found a genus 

 Septopora, and the common Western Coal-measure species, that has been by 

 some referred to the European Permian species, Synocladia virgulacra. the type 

 of Prof. King's genus Synocladia. In identifying this fossil, from beds in Kan- 

 sas referred by him to the lower Permian, with S. virgulacea, Prof. Swallow 

 noticed that it differs from the foreign species in having only two, or, on some 

 parts, apparently three,f rows of cellules to each of the longitudinal branches, 

 instead of from three to five rows, as in the latter; and although he referred 

 the Western species doubtfully to S. virgulacea, he proposed for it the pro- 

 visional name, S. biserialis, in case the differences noted should be considered 

 of specific importance. J Prof. Geinitz, however, did not consider these differ- 

 ences of full specific value, and referred the species to S. virgulacea.% 



* Transac. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, Vol. I, p. 448, pi. 18, J Bg. 2, 2 a, b c, 1858. 



+ It is only immediately below the bifurcations of the larger stems that the pore re- 

 arranged that they might be counted so as to appear to make three roua. the proper 

 number of rows being only two. 



X Trans. Acad. St. Louis, Vol. I, p. 179, 1838. 



5 Carbonf. und Dyas, in Nebraska, p. 70, 1866. 



1870.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



After a careful comparison of a series of good specimens, showing clearly 

 both sides, of the fossil on which Dr. Prout proposed to found his genus Septopora 

 (S. Cestriensis, Prout), from the original locality in the Chester limestone of 

 the Lower Carboniferous, with an equally well preserved series of the Coal- 

 measure fossil mentioned above, that has been referred to S. virgulacea, we find 

 that they not only agree exactly in all generic characters, but that we have, up 

 to this time, been entirely unable to discover any specific differences. We ob- 

 serve, it is true, among the Coal-measure specimens, some differences in the 

 greater or less size, and irregularity of divergence of the branches, and conse- 

 quent differences in the sizes and forms of the fenestrules ; but the same dif- 

 ferences are also observable among the specimens from the Chester beds, so 

 that if we were to regard these as specific differences, we would have to admit 

 several species to be common to the two horizons, instead of only one. 



We have for a long time been aware of the fact that the form that has been 

 referred to S. virgulacea, from the Kansas and Nebraska rocks, not only ranges 

 through the beds included by some as lower Permian in Kansas, but that it 

 has an extensive vertical and geographical range in the admitted Coal-meas- 

 ures of these States and Iowa. We are also now prepared to show that it 

 not only ranges through the whole of the Coal-measures of Illinois, but that, 

 as above stated, specimens beyond all doubt belonging to the same genus, and, 

 as we believe, to the very same species, occur both in the St. Louis and Chester 

 beds of the Lower Carboniferous limestone series. We were slow to adopt 

 the conclusion thut the specimens from these different horizons are really spe- 

 cifically identical, because we have so often, in such cases, on examining bet- 

 ter collections than those first obtained, succeeded in finding differences not 

 previously supposed to exist. In this instance, however, as well as occasion- 

 ally in others, we have, as already mentioned, found the specimens to agree 

 exactly in apparently all of their specific characters. 



In regard to the generic relations of this fossil to the genus Synocladia, as 

 typified by the common European Permian true S. virgulacea, there may be differ 

 ences of opinion between some of those who draw very exact distinctions be- 

 tween genera, and others who give them greater latitude. That they really 

 belong to the same genus, however, we can scarcely entertain any doubts, 

 though it must be admitted that they are certainly distinguished on very 

 nearly the same kind and degree of differences that distinguish Feneslella from 

 Polypora. 



It is a little remarkable that Dr. Prout, who made an especial study of the 

 palaeozoic Polgzoa, should have failed to notice the very close relations be- 

 tween his Septopora and Synocladia, at the same time that he assigned to the 

 former almost exactly the same characters mentioned by Prof. King in describ- 

 ing his genus Synocladia. This identity of generic characters in these two 

 species will be better understood by comparing the original generic descrip- 

 tions of these forms as given by Prof. King and Dr. Prout, making, of course, 

 some allowance for differences of terminology. Prof. King's description of 

 Synocladia (see Brit. Permian Foss. p. 38) reads as follows : 



"A foliaceous or frondiferous infundibuliform Fenestetlidia. Fronds con- 

 sisting of numerous connecting stems or ribs. Stems bifurcating; radiating 

 from a small root ; running parallel to, and at short distances from each other, 

 on one plane; and giving off bilaterally numerous short, simple branches 

 [dissepiment], of which opposite pairs conjoin midway between its stems, 

 arcuately or at an ascending angle. Branches occasionally modified into 

 stems. Cellules on the inner or upper surface of the fronds; on both stem3 

 and branches; imbricated, and distributed in longitudinal series. Series of 

 cellules separated from each other by a dividing ridge. (?)Gemmuliferou8 

 vesicles on the dividing ridge." 



He farther adds that this genus differs from the allied genera, in the arching 

 and celluliferous character of its connecting branches, or dissepime/its, and the fact 

 that they are sometimes developed into intermediate radiating branches or stems. It 



[March, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



will also be observed that he does not mention the number of row Hales 



or pores in each radial branch or stem, in his generic description, though be 

 does so in describing the species; from which it is evident that he did nol 

 gard that as a generic character, and that he would have considered the 

 American type as belonging to another species of the same genus. 



For comparison with the above, we give below Dr. Prout's description of his 

 proposed genus Septopora, from the Transactions of the Acad. Sci. of St. 

 Louis, vol. I. p. 448 : 



"Bryozoum a fan-like expansion, with longitudinal ribs [stems of Prof. 

 King], irregular in size, radiating from a centre, branching and occasionally 

 anastomosing, having two lines of pores, one on each side of a tuberculated 

 midrib* Dissepiments forming arches or more or less angular, dividing the 

 Bryozoum into quadrangular, round, semi-lunar, or rhombic fenestrules ; each 

 dissepiment supporting from one to four irregular lines of cell-pores ; reverse 

 smooth when worn, but more or less tubercled when perfect."! 



He adds that, "though in its general features it resembles Fenestella, it dif- 

 fers in a marked degree by its celluliferous dissepiments." This, it will be 

 observed, together with the arched, or angulated character of its dissepiments, and 

 the fact that they sometimes give origin to intermediate branches, or sterms, as Prof. 

 King terms them, were exactly the characters mentioned by the latter author 

 as distinguishing Synocladia from other allied Fcnestellidx. Although Dr. 

 Prout does not mention the character of the angulated dissepiments giving 

 off intermediate branches, his figure 2 a, pi. 18, of the St. Louis transactions 

 cited, distinctly shows it, and it is even more strongly defined in specimens 

 now before us, from the original locality, and identified by Dr. Prout himself. 

 It is also worthy of note, that Dr. Prout's enlarged figures, 2 b and 2 c, of the 

 plate above cited, do not give a correct idea of this fossil, as may be seen by 

 comparison with his own description. Figure 2 c, for instance, represents the 

 fenestrules proportionally much too small, and the dissepiments too thick 

 and not in the slightest degree "forming arches, or more or less angular." 

 Figure 2 b also fails to show this arching or bending upward of the dissepi- 

 ments, and the "tubercles" or vesicles on the midrib, which characters are as 

 strongly defined in the Chester and Coal-measure specimens as in Prof. King's 

 figures of the typical S. virgulacea. Some portions of the celluliferous surface 

 near the base of the frond might be selected from some specimens that would 

 nearly agree with these figures given by Dr. Prout, but this is far from the 

 general character of the fossil farther up, where the branches are more diverg- 

 ing, so as to form larger fenestrules. 



The question respecting the relations of these Western specimens, from the 

 several horizons mentioned, to each other, and to the European Permian Syno- 

 cladia virgulacea, is, for other reasons, one of more interest and importance 

 than the mere difference or identity of particular fossils, since it involves the 

 question of the duration in time, and the consequent geological range, of one 

 of the most important of the types that have been appealed to as evidence 

 that the Permian should be carried down in Kansas and Nebraska, so as to 

 include several hundred feet of rocks regarded by us and others as belonging 

 to the true Coal-measures. Whether we regard this fossil as being specifi- 

 cally identical with Synocladia virgulacea (which we do not admit), or view it 

 as a distinct species of the same genus, it is now evident that it can no longer 

 be regarded as properly a Permian type; for, even if it could be shown to be 

 only a variety of S. virgulacea, it would still b a, form unknown in the Permian 

 of Europe ; while here it is, as above shown, not only one of our most abun- 

 dant Coal-measure types, but one that began its existence during the deposi- 

 tion of lower Carboniferous or Mountain limestone series. 



* The midrib mentioned here is the "dividing ridge" of Prof. King, and the "tubercles" 

 on it are the "(?jgemmuliferous vesicles" of Prof. King. 



t It is minutely striated in perfect specimens, as we know from examination of typical 

 examples from the original locality. 



1870.] 2 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



It is worthy of uote in this connection, that there are various other fossils 

 in the upper members of our lower Carboniferous series that might with quite 

 as much propriety be referred to European Permian species as many of the 

 Western Coal-measure types that have been so referred. For instance, Dr. 

 Prout long since (Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sciences, vol. I. p. 450) identified a 

 Polypora, from the Chester beds, with the Russian Permian P. biarmica ; while 

 several other species of Polyzoa found in the Chester group are scarcely dis- 

 tinguishable from forms found in western beds that have been by some in- 

 cluded in the Permian. We also now know that there are species of Schizodus, 

 Pleurophorus, etc., in the Chester beds very like Permian forms ; while a Cri- 

 noid, found by Prof. Marcou in beds in Nebraska (referred by him to the Per- 

 mian), and thought by him to be " extremely near Encrinus moniliformis, Miller, 

 of the Muschelkalk of Europe,'' is now known to range through the whole of 

 the Western Coal-measures, and to be represented in the Chester limestone 

 beneath the Millstone-grit by closely allied species. Indeed, a number of 

 Crinoids that have been recently discovered in the Chester beds and the Coal- 

 measures of Illinois are remarkably similar representative forms. Even the 

 curious Zeacrinus mucrospinus of McChesney, from the Upper Coal-measures of 

 Illinois, has its nearly allied representative in the Chester limestone below 

 the Millstone-grit. 



Numerous facts like the foregoing (such, for instance, as the occurrence of 

 Tertiary types of plants in the Nebraska Cretaceous), might be cited to show 

 that in many instances particular forms of life, both animal and vegetable, 

 appeared here at earlier periods than in the old world. Hence, great caution, 

 and some general knowledge of the entire fauna and flora of our rocks, are 

 often required in order to arrive at sound conclusion with regard to their re- 

 lations to particular horizons of the series, as made out in Europe. 



April 5th. 

 Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



Professor Leidy made the following remarks on Discosacrcs and its Al- 

 lies. 



The body of the last vertebra in the series of caudals belonging to the Kan- 

 sas saurian, described by Prof. Cope under the name of Elasmosaurus, has the 

 length less than the depth or breadth, which latter is the greatest diameter. 

 It is moderately contracted towards the middle, the sides below the neural 

 arch and the surface below the costal articulations being fore and aft concave, 

 and bounded in front and behind by an acute margin from the articular ends. 

 A ridge extends fore and aft between the chevron articulations and the in- 

 cluded surface is concave, and exhibits a single lateral venous foramen. The 

 costal articular processes project from the middle of the side of the body, 

 reaching nearer the fore than the back end of the latter. They are transversely 

 oval, about three-fourths the length of the body, and the height about half. 

 They form a deep concavity, with acute margins expanding peripherally. 

 The articular ends of the body are transversely oval and defined from the 

 intermediate portion of the latter by an acute everted margin. A short dis- 

 tance within the position of the latter the surface is marked by a narrow 

 groove, and within the circle of this groove the surface projects in such a manner 

 as to appear like a distinct disk or epiphysial plate applied to and eoossified 

 with the body. The surface of the disk is convex at the periphery and 

 moderately concave towards the centre. The articular surface beyond the 

 groove denning the disk appears as an everted ledge, and the triangular articu- 

 lar facets for the chevrons appear as deflections of the ledge. The extension 

 of the latter inferiorly is greater at the posterior extremity of the body than 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. l'.t 



at the anterior extremity, thus producing a larger provision of surface in thai 

 position for the articulation of the chevron. The neural arch in the Bpecimen 

 has apparently been so much laterally compressed, that its original condition 

 cannot be ascertained. 



It was upon several similar isolated vertebrae to the one just described thai tbi 

 genus Discosaurus was established, and I shall now proceed to examine them 

 comparatively with the object of determining their relationship with the Kan- 

 sas saurian. 



The genus Discosaurus was originally indicated from a mutilated body of a 

 caudal vertebra from the cretaceous formation of Alabama (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. 1851, 326). In its imperfect condition, its peculiar character, and resem- 

 blance to a vertebra represented, by Prof. Owen, as a cervical of Plesiosaurut 

 pachyomus (British Fossil Reptiles, pi. 28,) it was mistaken for a cervical. 

 The specimen, together with another from the same individual, were described 

 in their true position, as relates to the regions of the vertebral column, in the 

 " Cretaceous Reptiles of the United States." They are represented in figs. 4, 

 5, 6, pi. v, of that work. The two vertebral bodies bear a near resemblance 

 with that of the Kansas saurian above described. They have nearly the 3am i 

 proportions, and are slightly smaller and rather less contracted intermediately. 

 The interchevron ridges are comparatively less well developed. The discoid 

 arrangement of the articular ends is even more conspicuous. The disks are 

 more prominent, more decidedly defined from the ledge beyond by a deeper 

 constriction or groove. The periphery of the disks is rather more convex, and 

 the surface towards the centre slightly less concave. The ontside ledge is 

 comparatively narrow and is not everted. The chevron articular surfaces ap- 

 pear rather to be produced through deflections of the groove defining the disk, 

 than by an extension of the ledge, so that the chevrons would appear to have 

 articulated with the depressed margin of the disk itself instead of with the 

 ledge. The neural arch is broken away in both specimens, except part of a i 

 abutment in one of them. 



The slight difference in size of these vertebrae from that of the Kansas 

 saurian, as well as the feebler production of the interchevron ridges, might 

 readily be due to their more posterior position in the column. The more de- 

 cided constriction of the disks at the articular extremeties from the rest of the 

 body, which led to the application of the name of Discosaurus, might be re- 

 garded as an individual peculiarity, or a variation in specific character; which 

 is often greater than real specific or even generic characters. 



A similar vertebra, from the lower cretaceous of Mississippi, represented in 

 figs. 10 12, pi. v of the " Cretaceous Reptiles of the United states,'' likewise 

 referred to Discosaurus, has the same size and proportions as that above de- 

 scribed of the Kansas saurian. In its anatomical characters it is intermediate- 

 to the latter, and those of the Alabama saurian. The interchevron ridges are 

 intermediate in degree of development. The most marked difference exists at 

 the articular ends of the body. The articular surface is comparatively flat, 

 being but feebly depressed towards the centre and as feebly rounded towards 

 the periphery, which extends to the acute margin defining it from the sides of 

 the body, almost without the intervention of a groove such as is described in 

 the preceding specimens. A slight deflection in the course of the acute 

 border defines the anterior chevron articulatioa. The posterior chevron ar- 

 ticulation is comparatively large and more distinctly defined than the corres- 

 ponding one in the Kansas and Alabama specimens. The sides of the neural 

 arch ascend in a steep slope from the more concave sides of the body, sweep- 

 ing outwardly to the upper border of the costal pit. The diameter of the 

 spinal canal is about seven lines. 



Another vertebral body, from the cretaceous formation of New Jersey, re- 

 ferred to Discosaurus, is represented in figs. 79 of the work above indicated. 

 It presents characters in common with the preceding specimens, but likewise 

 has peculiarities of a decided kind. It approaches most the Alabama speci- 



1870.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mens, and has nearly the same size. Tnterehevron ridges are entirely obsolete. 

 The articular extremities of the body are very like those of the Alabama 

 specimens, but the groove defining them from the acute margin is very incon- 

 spicuous or nearly obsolete. The deflections of the acute margin for the ac- 

 commodation of chevrons are comparatively and remarkably deep, especially 

 thoBe anteriorly. The spinal canal at the orifices is about seven lines wide ; 

 at the middle scarcely five lines. 



In all the specimens above indicated, a single venous foramen is situated on 

 the under side of the body, to the right of the median line. 



Comparative measurements of the specimens are as follow: 



Caudal from Kansas, Mississippi, Alabama, New Jersey. 



Length of body inferiorly 24 Z. 24 /. 23J 1 . 23 Z. 



Breadth ant. artic surface 36 36 33| 34 



Depth " " " 30 30 2Q\ 27 J 



Breadth post. " " 34 34 3l" 3l| 



Depth " " " 29 29 26 



Breadth costal artic. cavity 18 17 15 15 



Depth " " " 12 11 11 11 



Width between inf. margins of 



costal cavities 39 39 38 3S 



Distance fore and aft of chev- 

 ron surfaces 16 16 16 12$ 



We thus have the nearly corresponding caudal vertebra? of four individuals, 

 from the cretaceous formation of as many different localities, agreeing nearly 

 in size, proportions, form, and construction, but exhibiting decided peculiari- 

 ties in every case. Are these peculiarities to be considered of generic and 

 specific value ; of specific value alone ; or are they to be regarded as varia- 

 tions in the characters of a single species? From the specimens alone I 

 would incline to view them in the latter light, though I admit that each 

 variation may represent a different genus, or a different species of the same 

 genus. The reason for referring any one to a genus is equally good for all. 

 If the Alabama specimens be regarded as characteristic of Discosaurus, and 

 the Kansas one of Elasmosaurus, the caudal from Mississippi, with its nearly 

 flat ends, is quite as characteristic of a third genus, and the New Jersey caudal, 

 with its peculiarities, would form a fourth. The close correspondence in size 

 of the specimens rather favors the view that they all pertain to the same 

 species, though this maybe as coincidental as the discovery of the nearly cor- 

 responding vertebra in the four cases. The one which, in my view, is most 

 distinctive from the others, is the specimen from Mississippi, with the nearly 

 flat articular extremities of its body. It may be well to consider it as repre- 

 senting a species, and for this one I propose the name of Discosatirus planior. 



A vertebra, which accompanied the Discosauroid caudal from New Jersey, 

 from its appearance was supposed to belong to the same individual. It was 

 regarded as a posterior cervical, and is represented in figs. 1-3, pi. v, and 

 described on page 24 of the "Cretaceous Reptiles." It would appear by com- 

 parison rather to be an anterior caudal, and so far as I can judge in the im- 

 perfect condition of the specimens, resembles most nearly the fifth of the last 

 continuous series of twenty-two vertebrae of the Kansas skeleton. It appears 

 to agree nearly in form, constitution, and proportions with the corresponding 

 bone of the latter, but is rather smaller. 



Some years since I had the opportunity of inspecting some vertebral speci- 

 mens of a huge saurian in the possession of Mr. W. F. Roberts, who obtained 

 them from near Greenville, Clark Co., Arkansas. They are supposed to be of 

 cretaceous age, as the formation of that period is the prevailing one in the 

 locality in which they were found. Two of the best preserved of the speci- 

 mens, generally very imperfect, were briefly noticed in the Proceedings for 

 1854, page 72, and represented in figs. 1-3, pi. ii. The remains were observed 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



to bear a resemblance to those of CimoUasaurua, and were referred to an ani- 

 mal with the name of Brimosaurus grandia. Through comparison with the 

 skeleton of the Kansas saurian, they appear to be posterior cervicals, and 

 further appear sufficiently near in character to belong to the same, th< 

 tneir larger size renders it probable that they pertained to a larger species. 



A question arises as to the relationship of those remains originally referred 

 to CimoUasaurua with Discosaurus in the present state of our knowledge of tin- 

 latter. In the first place, by comparison with the skeleton of the Kansas 

 saurian, we observe that the position in the column, assigned to the vertebral 

 bodies of Cimoliaaaurua, was incorrect, and this probably contributed to mislead 

 Prof. Cope in his examination of the skeleton of the Kansas saurian. 



The vertebral specimens referred to Cimoliasaurus consisted of two sets of 

 specimens, from two different individuals, both from the green sand of Bur- 

 lington Co., N. J. They are described in "Cretaceous Reptiles," page 25, and 

 characteristic ones represented in plates v. and vi. 



The eleven vertebrae considered as lumbar, and represented by figs. 17-19, 

 pi. v, and 16-18, pi. vi, are evidently cervicals. Those considered as dorsals 

 on page 26, and represented in figs. 13-16, pi. v, are at least in part posterior 

 cervicals. Of the fourteen vertebras referred to on page 27 as dorsals and lum- 

 bars, those described and represented in figs. 1-5, pi. vi, are alone dorsals, while 

 the others described and represented in figs. 6-9 are posterior, and those of 

 figs. 10-18 more anterior cervicals. 



The cervicals of Cimoliasaurus are so different in their proportions from 

 those of the Kansas saurian that there can be no question as to the distinction 

 of the two animals, at least as species. 



Do all the remains originally referred to Discosaurus belong to this genus as 

 distinct from Cimoliasaurus ? I suspect that those from New Jersey belong to 

 the latter. The animals indicated by all the fossils which have been under 

 consideration are Plesiosauroid, and as in recognized species of Pleaioaaurus 

 there is much variability in the number, proportions, and other characters of 

 the cervicals without a corresponding extent of variation in other parts of the 

 vertebral column, we would be prepared to find in Cimoliasaurus nearly the 

 same kind of caudals as in Discosaurus. 



Prof. Cope, in his "Synopsis of the Ext. Batrachia and Reptilia," pt. i, 1869, 

 p. 56, describes two vertebral specimens from the lower bed of the cretaceous 

 green sand of Gloucester and Monmouth counties, which he attributes to a 

 species with the name of Elasmosaurus orientalis. The specimens described 

 as caudals are seen, by comparison with the Kansas skeleton, to be cervical-. 



The smaller of the two specimens is intermediate in its form, proportions, 

 and size with what appear to be the nearly corresponding vertebra; of the Kan- 

 sas saurian, and the vertebra; referred to Cimoliasaurus. The larger specimen 

 I have not seen, but from the description and measurements given it would 

 appear to have belonged to a species quite as large as the Kansas saurian. 

 The comparative measurements of the two specimens with that of the Kan- 

 sas saurian, which appears to be most like them, and witli the largest of the 

 specimens which had been referred to Cimoliasaurus, are as follow: 



New Jersey specimens. Kansas sp. Cimoliaiaurus. 



Length of body 3| in. 4^ in. 4} in. 3 in. 11/. 



Breadth " 4^ in. 5f in. 4J in. 4 in. 2 1. 



Depth " 3 in. 4 in. 3 in. 3J in. 



The various remains to which I have referred in this communication proba- 

 bly indicate a number of different species of a genus, presenting a like varia- 

 bility in the number and proportions of the cervicals as has been observed 

 in the closely related genus Pleaiosaurus. In the present condition of knowl- 

 edge of the remains, they appear to me to be referable to a series of spi 

 as follow : 



1. Discosaurus vetustus. 



Leidy: Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1851, 326; Cret. Rept. United States, 1865, 22. 



1870.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cimoliasaurus magnus. Cope: Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1869, 266. 

 Cimoliasaurus retustus. Cope: Synopsis Ext. Bat. Rept., &c, 1869, 57. 

 Cretaceous of Alabama. 



2. DlSCOSADRCS GRANDIS. 



Brimosaurus grandis. Leidy : Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1854, 72, pi. i, figs. 1-3. 

 Cimoliasaurus grandis. Cope: Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1869, 266; Synopsis 

 Ext. Batrachia, Reptilia, &c. 1869, 57. 

 Cretaceous of Arkansas. 



3. DlSCOSAURUS CARINATUS. 



Elasmosaurus plalyurus and Discosaurus carinatus. Cope: LeConte's Notes 

 on the Geology &c. Union Pacific Railway, 1868, 68. 



Elasmosaurus p/atgurus. Cope: Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1868, 92; Pr. Bost. Soc. 

 Nat. Hist. 1869, 266; Synopsis Ext. Batr. Rept. 1869, 46. 

 Cretaceous of Kansas. 



4. Discosaurus magnus. 



Cimoliasaurus magnus. Leidy: Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1851,325; 1854, 72, pi. ii, 

 figs. 4-6; Cret. Rept. U. S. 1865, 25, pi. v, figs. 13-19, pi. vi. Cope: 

 Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1869, 266 ; Synopsis Ext. Batr. Rept. 1869, 57. 



Discosaurus vStustus in part? Leidy: Cret. Rept. U. S. 1865, 24, pi. v, figs. 

 1-3, 7-9. 

 Cretaceous of New Jersey. 



5. Discosaurus planior. 



Discosaurus vetustus in part. Leidy : Cret. Rept. U. S. 1865, 23, pi. v, figs. 

 10-12. 

 Lower cretaceous of Mississippi. 



6. Discosaurus orientalis. 



Elasmosaurus orientalis. Cope: Pr. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. 1869, 266; Synop- 

 sis Ext. Batr. Rept. 1869, 54. 

 Lower cretaceous of New Jersey. 



In the cervicals of Discosaurus, so far as can be ascertained by the material 

 at command, there appears to be no subdivision of the articular process for 

 the riblets, as in Plesiosaurus. In the latter the chevron bones consist of 

 lateral halves, ununited by osseous tissue. In the skeleton of the Kansas sau- 

 rian, intervening between two of the caudals, there is a bone which looks as 

 if it might be an inverted Y-shaped chevron, with one arm broken off. The 

 ~pine broken at the end is about four inches long. The remaining arm, broken 

 away at the articular end, is about three inches long. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed : 



Descriptions of new Species and Genera of Fossils from the Palaeozoic rocks 



of the Western States. 



BY F. B. MEEK AND A. H. WORTHEN, 



Of the Illinois State Geological Survey. 



FORAMINIFERA? 



Receptaculites formosus, M. and W. 



Body obovate, the breadth being about three-fourths the height, and the 

 widest point a little above the middle ; upper end rounded, and without any 

 umbilicoid concavity or opening, unless it may be a very small one ; sides 

 gndually tapering with a slight convexity from a little above the middle, to 

 an apparently moderate sized base of attachment. Cell openings or depres- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



sions shallow, quadrangular, or transversely rhombic (those on the upper pari 

 being quadrangular, and those farther down becoming mure rhombic, and 

 wider than high), arranged in spirally ascending rows, which make nearly 

 one turn in passing from the base to the centre of the top; each with a trans- 

 verse linear central furrow, from which a similar furrow passes to the lower 

 angle ; central perforations of the cell depressions minute, and generally closed 

 in the typical specimen. 



Height, 1-75 inches; breadth, 1-22 inches. 



This species differs from all others known to us, especially from any Upper 

 Silurian horizon, in its elongated, obovate form, its outline being almost ex- 

 actly obovate, excepting the truncation of the lower (smaller) end. In gem 

 appearance it perhaps most nearly agrees with a form found in the Galena 

 Limestone, and referred by us, doubtfully, to R. globular is, Hall, in the third 

 vol. Illinois Geol. Reports, pi. 2, fig. 2 a,b. It differs, however, from that 

 species in having the upper end more round, or less depressed, and without 

 any umbilicoid impression. Its cell impressions are also very different, not 

 being near so crowded, and instead of becoming more crowded and narrower 

 on the lower half, they are less so there than above ; while the central per- 

 foration of each is much smaller. 



Locality and position. Bridge Port, near Chicago, Illinois. Niagara Group 

 of Upper Silurian. 



We are under obligations to the Rev. E. C. Bolls, of Portland, Me., for the 

 use of the only specimen of this species we have seen. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



Barycrinos spectabilis, M. and W. 

 Body attaining a large size, rather deeply cup-shaped, though wider than 

 high ; truncated below, with sides moderately expanding upward. Base 

 basin-shaped. Basal pieces rather large, nearly twice as wide as high, penta- 

 gonal in form, with the mesial angle above deeply impressed, the impression 

 being also continued down the middle to the lower edge, with a broad promi. 

 nence or ridge on each side of it also extending to the lower edge, where 

 each of these prominences terminates in a little angular projection, while the 

 lateral margins are strongly and abruptly beveled, so as to form deep, wide 

 notches at the sutures. Subradial pieces large, hexagonal, excepting one on 

 the anal side, which is heptagonal ; all very profoundly impressed at the cor- 

 ners, so as to form strong, radiating ridges, extending one to each of the sides. 

 to connect with those on the other contiguous plates; sometimes these ridges 

 terminate in pinched-up nodes on the central region. First radial pieces 

 about twice as wide as high, being generally a little wider than the BUDradials, 

 pentagonal in form, with superior lateral angles more or less truncated, and 

 slightly projecting at the edge, each with its broad, very shallow sinus above, 

 forthe reception of the second radials. more than three-fourths as wide as its 

 upper margin, while the deep impression at the lower angles form two broad, 

 very strong ridges, extending downward to connect with those on the sub- 

 radial s ; sometimes these terminate near the middle above, in sharp pinched- 

 up, diverging nodes, or short carinas, while between these and the superior 

 lateral, truncated angles, one or two other sharp prominences are somel 

 seen. Second radial pieces extremelv short, or almost transversely linear, 

 and not always entirely filling the broad shallow sinuses in which they rest. 

 Third radials triangular, a little higher in the middle than the first, out 

 wedo-in^ to a very thin edge on each side, or even sometimes thinning out so as 

 to let the first brachial pieces rest, at the lateral ends partly upon the first and 

 partly on the second radials. Anal pieces of moderate size, quadrangular in 

 form, a little wider than high, and resting on the upper truncated edge 0< the 

 heptagonal subradial, while its own upper edge is truncated entirely aci 

 nearly on a level with the superior lateral angles of the first radial on 

 side of it. 



1870.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Arras two from each ray, rather long, rounded, and tapering ; very stout 

 below, where they are composed of thin (short) wide pieces, the first two of 

 which, in each pair of arms, are joined together at their inner ends ; above 

 these the arms of each ray diverge more or less from each other, and throw 

 off alternately on each side stout armlets from every second piece. Arm 

 pieces above the wide ones at the base, somewhat longer in proportion to 

 breadth than the latter, and more or less wedge formed, with each a little 

 pinched or angular ridge or projection on each side, ranging transversely to 

 the arms. Armlets stout, about eight to nine on each side of each arm, near 

 half as thick as the arms just above the points where the two connect : com- 

 posed of pieces of nearly the same form as the arm pieces, but generally show- 

 ing a slight disposition to become a little zigzag, and, at least some of them, 

 throwing off alternately on each side a series of smaller secondary armlets, 

 exactly as they are themselves given off from the main arms. Secondary 

 armlets showing a slight zigzag appearance, from the greater thickness and 

 prominence of every second piece on opposite sides, so as to appear as if they 

 may give off a tertiary series of armlets, or pinnulse, though the specimen does 

 not show these if they exist. 



Column very stout, nearly round, and composed, at least for about three 

 inches or more below the base, of alternately thin and somewhat thicker 

 pieces, the latter of which project outward a little beyond the others, and 

 show a slight disposition to become nodular, or irregularly thickened on the 

 edge. Internal cavity large, with an obtusely pentagonal section. Longitu- 

 dinal sutures, dividing the column into five sections, partly anchylosed, but 

 still visible. 



Height of body, about 1 inch ; breadth, about 1-70 inches ; length of arms, 

 3-80 inches ; thickness of do. at the base, 0-40 inch ; thickness of column near 

 base, 0-60 inch. 



This fine large species seems to be most nearly allied to D. Thomte, {= Cya- 

 thocrinus Thomse, Hall), from the Warsaw Limestone, but differs in having the 

 impressions at the comers of its body plates, and the ridges between the same, 

 greatly more strongly defined, and its arms much stouter, and more rounded 

 below. Its column is also proportionally thicker, with a more obtusely pen- 

 tagonal internal cavity. The typical specimens of the B. Thomce, which are 

 now before us, are not in a condition to show much of the arms, but as far as 

 they can be seen, they seem to be proportionally more slender, and we can 

 scarcely doubt that they will show other corresponding differences in the de- 

 tails of their structure, when better specimens can be compared. We have 

 ascertained, however, that the arm-pieces of the typical specimens of B. 

 Thomse have on their sides little pinched-up prominences, as in the species 

 here described, which character was not mentioned in the description of that 

 species. 



The peculiarity of having the corners of the body plates impressed so as to 

 form large ridges on the plates is very common in this group, but it differs in 

 degree, or otherwise, in the various species, presenting corresponding differ- 

 ences in other parts. It is more strongly defined in the species here described, 

 and the ridges more angular than in any other known to us. This species is 

 also the first of the group in which we have clearly seen secondary armlets 

 springing from the sides of the larger ones given off from each side of the 

 arms; but since seeing this character in this species, we think we have been 

 able to detect indications of it in others. 



We hope those who may not be disposed to admit the genus Barycrinus as 

 distinct from Cyathocrinus, will at least write the name of this species Cyatho- 

 crinus (Barycrinus) spectabilis. 



Locality and position. Otter Creek, Jersey County, Illinois ; from the St. 

 Louis Group of the Lower Carboniferous. 



Cyathocrinites ? poterium, M. and W. 



Body small, depressed-subglobose, somewhat flattened below and con- 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



traded above. Basal plates of moderate size, pentagonal in form, and 

 out horizontally so as to form a nearly flat pentagonal disc, excepting that the 

 salient angles are curved upward a little; facet for the attachment ol the 

 column small, compared with the size of the base, round and no1 impressed 

 Subradial plates large, forming the widest part of the body, convex, on the 

 outside, but not from thickening; about as wide as long, hexagonal, with 

 perhaps the exception of one on the anal side of heptagonal form ; all curving 

 under below to connect with the base. First radials somewhat smaller than 

 the subradials, wider than long, pentagonal in form, and provided above with 

 very small, shallow sinuses for the reception of the second, which arc small, 

 but more thau filling the shallow little sinuses. Third radials, in two of the 

 arms seen, small, and bearing on each of their superior sloping sides, a long, 

 very slender, subcarinated arm, which bifurcates on the second piece abo 

 while the divergent divisions subdivide two or three times again above, at in- 

 tervals of three or four pieces ; the divisions and subdivisions all being 

 slender, and composed of joints about twice as long as wide. In two of the 

 rays seen, however, the free arms are simple from their origin on the first 

 radials, at least as far up as to the sixth piece, inclusive, (which is as far as 

 they can be traced in the specimen), and present the remarkable character of 

 having the second, third and fourth pieces greatly dilated, or alate on each 

 side, so as to be nearly two-thirds as broad as the whole body below ; though 

 the first piece next the body (second radial), is narrow, and nearly twice as 

 long as wide, as are the fifth and sixth pieces. Surface smooth, or only finely 

 granular; sutures close fitting, or not channeled. Anal plate and column 

 unknown. 



Height of body, 0-20 inch ; breadth of do., 0-34 inch ; breadth of the dilated 

 part of one of the simple arms, about 0-22 inch. 



It is possible that the dilated arms may bifurcate above the sixth piece, 

 though the specimen from which the description is made out is not in a con- 

 dition to enable us to settle this point. The fact that they become suddenly 

 narrow above the fourth piece, would seem to indicate that tbey may possibly 

 assume the character of the other arms farther up. As seen lying partly 

 imbedded in the matrix, with the long-jointed, slender arms and their branches 

 incurved, above the little globular body, the whole reminds one very much of 

 the Jurassic genus Saccosoma, Agassiz. 



The very remarkable characters of the arms in this little crinoid, if not due 

 to abnormal development, would certainly seem to warrant its separation, at 

 least subgenerically, from the typical forms of Cyathocrinites. It also seems 

 very improbable that its ventral disc is constructed as in the typical forms of 

 that genus. Should other specimens show the peculiarities we have men- 

 tioned to be normal, we would propose for this type the generic or subgen- 

 eric name Saceosomopsis. 



Specifically this form, at least so far as regards its body, seems to be exactly 

 like a species described by Prof. Hall, under the name Cyathocrimcs parvibra- 

 chiatus (Jour. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist.., Vol. vii, p. 395, 1861) ; and it is worthy 

 of note, that he describes its " subrachial" or free radial pieces as being 

 "two to each ray, broad and strong, but varying in the different rays." As 

 these pieces " vary in the (liferent rays," may not those he saw, that were broad 

 and strong, have belonged to dilated simple rays, as in our species, and these 

 rays been^broken off above the second pieces, in the specimen described? 1 

 so", his species would almost certainly belong to the same group as ours, but 

 differs specifically in having its bifurcating arms shorter, more rapidly dimin- 

 ishing in size, with shorter pieces between the bifurcations, so as to bring the 

 subdivisions closer together ; also in having larger and deeper sinuses in its 

 first radials for the reception of the second. 



We are much inclined to believe there is a little group of species having 

 essentially the form of body, and the peculiarities of the arms we have de- 

 scribed, and that it will probably include Cyathocrinites Saffordi, the arms ot 

 which are unknown. 



1870.] 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Locality and position. Crawfordsville, Indiana. Keokuk division of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. The specimen from which our description was 

 made out belongs to the collection of Mr. Corey. 



Poteriocrinites (Zeacrinus?) concinnus, M. and W. 



Body wider than high, rather rapidly expanding upward from the column. 

 Base small, basin-shaped, about three times as wide as high, and truncated 

 about three-fourths its breadth below by the facet for the attachment of the 

 column. Basal pieces wider than high, pentagonal in form, and expanding 

 upward from the column, which is rather stout, rouud, and composed near the 

 base of thin pieces. Subradials of moderate size, not thickened or tumid, 

 four hexagonal, and one on the anal side heptagonal. First radials as wide 

 as the subradials, but shorter, pentagonal, and truncated their entire breadth 

 above. Second radials as wide as the first, but scarcely more than half as 

 long, all transversely oblong in form. Third radials in the posterior and 

 anterior lateral rays, of nearly the same size and form as the first, but of 

 course with the sloping sides above. On these sloping sides they each sup- 

 port two unequal arms, the posterior one of which in one of the posterior 

 lateral rays is smaller than the other, and can be seen to bifurcate on the 

 fourth piece, while the other bifurcates on the second piece, and its subdi- 

 visions divide again at various distances above, several times, so as to make 

 altogether about thirteen or more subdivisions in this ray. The anterior main 

 division of one of the anterior lateral rays can also be seen to bifurcate on 

 the fifth piece above the tbird radial, and one of its branches subdivides at 

 different distances above into three subdivisions, and the other into four. 

 Anterior ray simple to the eighth piece, the pieces between the first and last 

 being short and somewhat wedge-form, while the last is pentagonal and sup- 

 ports two arms, each of which can be seen to bifurcate at least once some 

 distance above. Anal pieces with the usual double alternating arrangement, 

 the lowest piece being obliquely inserted between the upper sloping sides of 

 two of the subradials, and partly under one side of one of the first radials, 

 while a contiguous piece on the left above is supported on an upper truncated 

 side of one of the subradials, and the latter are succeeded by others that con- 

 nect with the base of the proboscis. 



Arms long, slender, very straight, and gradually tapering; slightly convex 

 on the dorsal surface, and flattened so as to fit closely together on each side, 

 with all their divisions running up parallel, or showing scarcely any divergence 

 at the bifurcations, and all composed of short wedge-formed pieces ; axillary 

 pieces not more protuberant than the others. Pinuulae small, and arising one 

 from the upper part of the longer side of each arm piece, alternately on each 

 side, and rather closely approximated to each other. 



Surface, in well preserved specimens, finely and obscurely granular, the 

 granules showing on the arms (as seen under a magnifier) a tendency to 

 arrange themselves in longitudinal rows, or to assume vermicular forms. 

 Sutures between all the pieces merely linear. 



Entire length of arms and body, 2-80 inches; height of body to the top of 

 first radials, 0-27 inch; breadth about 0-43 inch. Thickness of column, at its 

 connection with the base, 0-17 inch. 



This species seems to combine, to some extent, the characters of Poteriocri- 

 nites and Zeacrinus. In general habit, especially in the somewhat flattened 

 and closely contiguous characters of all the divisions of its arms, all around, 

 when folded together, as well as, to some extent, in their mode of division, it 

 reminds one of many species of Zeacrinus. In the form of its body, however, 

 and particularly in having three primary radials, instead of only two, in each 

 of the anterior lateral and posterior lateral rays, and about eight below the 

 first bifurcation in the anterior ray, as well as in the general form of its body, 

 it agrees more nearly with the typical forms of Poteriocriniles. We know of 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



no species liable to be confounded with this when specimens can be seen with 

 its arms well preserved. 



Locality and position. Keokuk division of the Lower Carboniferous series 

 at Crawfordsville, Indiana. The typical specimen belongs to Mr. Corey, of 

 Crawfordsville, to whom we are indebted for the loan of it. 



Scaphiocrinus depressus, M. and W. 



Body small, somewhat basin-shaped, about twice as wide as high to the top 

 of the first radials, broadly truncated and concave below, with but Blightly 

 expanded or nearly vertical sides. Base occupying the concavity of the under 

 side, and apparently flat or concave. First radial pieces about as high as 

 wide, a little convex, rising vertically, except below, where they curve ab- 

 ruptly inwards to connect with the base; all seen, presenting pentagonal gen- 

 eral outlines on their outer faces. First radial pieces nearlv twice as wiife as 

 high, pentagonal in form, and truncated their entire breadth above for the 

 reception of the second radials. Anal pieces unknown. Second radials 

 longer than wide, strongly constricted in the middle with steeply sloping sides 

 for the support of the arms above. Arms simple from their origin on the 

 second radials, slender, and composed of long, rounded, somewhat constricted 

 joints, which are obliquely truncated at the ends, with the upper end of all 

 projecting, alternately on opposite sides for the support of long, very slender 

 tentacles, composed of long joints. 



Breadth of body, near 0-30 inch; height, 0-15 inch. Arms apparently 

 about 1-12 inches in length, and only 0-05 inch in thickness at the constricted 

 part of one of the lower joints; first four joints 0-32 in length. 



In its depressed body, with nearly vertical sides, and broadly truncated, 

 concave lower part, this species seems to resemble S. unicus, of Hall, as near 

 as can be determined from a description alone. It differs, however, in having 

 the arms simple from their origin on the second radials, with long instead of 

 very short joints. It is peculiar iu the broadly truncated and concave char- 

 acter of its under side, as well as in the slenderness of its arms and pinnula;. 

 The latter are also remarkably distant from each other, owing to the length 

 of the arm joints. 



Locality and position. Crawfordsville. Indiana. From the Keokuk division 

 of the Lower Carboniferous series. 



Zeacrinus? armiger. 



Body small and depressed, or nearly basin-shaped, but with the under side 

 rounded, and concave in the middle. Base very small and nearly or quite 

 hidden in the concavity of the- under side. Subradial pieces comparatively 

 large and curving under below, but not tumid or convex; three with a general 

 pentagonal outline, but probably having a sixth obtuse angle at the middle of 

 each below ; the other two, on the anal side, presenting a general hexagonal 

 form, but truncated by the anal pieces in such a manner as to present a hep- 

 tagonal form, exclusive of the very obtuse angle probably existing at the 

 middle of the under side of each. First radial pieces twice as wide as high, 

 pentagonal in form, and truncated across their entire breadth. Second r 

 als as high as wide, each bearing two arms on their superior slopiug sides, 

 and developed into a long, slender, rounded, mucronate spine, which is 

 directed nearly horizontally outward. Anal pieces small, and arrange. 1 in a 

 double alternating series, the first on lowest piece being somewhat cuneiform 

 and wedged obliquely down between one of the subradials and the under 

 of the first radial on the left, so as to touch, by a very short side, the next 

 subradial on the left; second anal piece resting on the short truncated sum- 

 mit of one of the heptagonal subradials, and connecting on the right with 

 one of the first radial pieces, and on the left with one of the upper sidi 

 the first anal piece, and another piece resting on the latter. Above these, 



1870.] 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



others continue on up to connect with the base of the ventral extension of 

 the body. Arms unknown ; surface smooth ; sutures not impressed. 



Breadth of body, 0-39 inch; height of same to top of first radials, 0.17 

 inch ; length of spines formed by the extension of the second radials, 0-40 

 inch. 



In the peculiarity of having its second radial pieces developed into long 

 slender spines, this species agrees with Zeacrinus(?) mucrospinus of McChes- 

 ney, from the upper Coal-measures, and may be regarded as a representative 

 form of that curious Coal-measure species, in the upper part of the Lower 

 Carboniferous. It differs, however, specifically, from Prof. McChesney's 

 species, not only in being much smaller and more delicate, but in having its 

 subradial pieces much shorter in proportion to breadth and distinctly less 

 produced and pointed at the ends. Its anal pieces are also very differently 

 arranged, the first or lower one being wedged down obliquely under the first 

 radial on the left, instead of under that on the right of the anal series, as in 

 Z. mucrospinus. It is the first American species of the Cyathocrinidie we have 

 ever seen with this reversed arrangement of the anal series, though Prof. 

 McCoy has represented a similar arrangement of these parts in an analogous 

 form from the Carboniferous rocks of Scotland. Until the arms of this cri- 

 noid can be seen, it is not possible to determine whether or not it belongs 

 properly to the genus Zeacrinus. 



Locality and position. Pope County, Illinois. Chester division of the Lower 

 Carboniferous. 



Zeacrinus (Hydreioxocrinus?) acanthophorus, M". and W. 



Body below the top of the first radial pieces much depressed, or nearly 

 saucer-sbaped, but concave below. Base very small and almost entirely hid- 

 den in the concavity of the under-side when the column is attached. Sub- 

 radial pieces small, four of them included in the concavity of the under side 

 and projecting horizontally outward into rather acute angles between the first 

 radials. so as to present a subtrigonal general outline, though they are really 

 hexagonal, their lateral and inner edges being connected with each other and 

 to the base, so as to form four very short sides with five obscure angles ; fifth 

 one larger than the others, proportionally longer, and curving upward at the 

 outer end, which is truncated so as to form a short side for the support of one 

 of the anal pieces. First radial pieces comparatively large, widening rapidly 

 from below to the top, which is truncated evenly the entire breadth, and 

 about twice a3 wide as the greatest height, all curving under to connect with 

 the subradials below in such a manner that the body rests upon them when 

 placed on a plane surface with the column removed. Second radials a little 

 smaller than the first, nearly twice as wide as long, pentagonal iu form, with 

 lateral margins short and not constricted ; each supporting two arms on its 

 superior sloping sides. Arms rather slender for a species of this genus, not 

 being wide enough to be in contact laterally all around when raised verti- 

 cally ; rounded on the dorsal side, rather rapidly tapering, and, so far as can 

 be seen in the typical specimen, all bifurcating on the second piece; below 

 the bifurcation the two pieces are each about as long as wide, the upper one 

 being sometimes slightly constricted around the middle ; arm piece above the 

 bifurcation rather slender, longer thau wide, rounded, and distinctly con- 

 stricted around the middle. 



First anal piece about twice as long as wide, and wedged so far down under 

 one side of one of the first radials. by the side of the largest subradial, as to 

 come nearly or quite in contact with the very small base. Second anal small 

 and resting upon the short upper end of the larger subradial, between the 

 upper part of the first anal on the right and the first radial on the left ; above 

 these the alternating series continues up to connect with the ventral ex- 

 tension. 



Ventral prolongation, or so-called proboscis, about equaling the apparent 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



length of the arms, comparatively rather narrow and Bub-cylindrical below 

 but widening rather gradually upward above to the summit, where n Barea 

 suddenly out all around to about the breadth of the body below, its top bi 

 nearly flat, or much depressed, and composed of small, unequal, convex pi< 

 while each one of the marginal row of these top pieces, all around, extends 

 horizontally outward in the form of a sharp spine about two-thirds as long 

 the entire transverse diameter of the flattened top itself.* Plates forming the 

 sides of the ventral portion, below its flattened spiniferous crown, probablj 

 more or less costated, or sculptured, in perfect examples, but thfe specimen 

 seen is not in a condition to show this, though the usual pores can be seen 

 passing through the sutures between the plates. Surface of body and a 

 apparently smooth. 



Height of body to top of first radials, about 0-18 inch ; breadth of do. 065 

 inch; height to top of ventral portion, including the body, 1-20 inches; 

 breadth of the flattened top of the ventral portion, exclusive of the free mar- 

 ginal spines, about 0-50 inch ; whole breadth across same to the extremities 

 of the spines. 



The form of the body and the arrangement of the anal pieces of this species 

 are very similar to those of cur Z. discus, from the Upper Coal measures, but 

 its under side is more decidedly concave, its first radial pieces proportionally 

 higher, and separated by decidedly deeper sutures. Its subradials are also 

 proportionally smaller. From Z ? mucrospimt*, of McChesney, it is at once 

 distinguished by not having its second radial pieces developed into spines, 

 and by the different structure of its arms. 



Locality and position. Fulton County. Associated with the lowest coal bed of 

 the Illinois Coal-measures. 



* On comparing this Crinoid with Prof, de Koninck's figure of the type of his gen is 

 Hydreionncrinus (H. Woodianus; Bull, de l'Academy Royale de Belgique, 2me serie, tome 

 III, pi. ii), we have been much impressed by the remarkable resemblance of the large 

 ventral extension of its body with its depressed or flattened crown, surrounded by a se- 

 ries of marginal spines directed horizontally outward, to the part in Prof, de Koninck's 

 type supposed by him to be formed by the lateral coalescence of the arms, in such a 

 manner as to form a kind of cylindrical extension of the body upward. In our spi 

 however, there are unquestionably well developed, free arms, independent of this part. 

 It would be such an anomalous structure for a Crinoid belonging to the Cyathoerinidx, ami 

 otherwise so similar to Zeacrinus and Poteriocrinites as Hydreionncrinus is, to have no ti ices 

 of free arms, that we are tempted to make the inquiry, whether Prof, de Koninck's speci- 

 men may not have had its arms broken away and the lower parts of the rays on which 

 they rested accidentally pressed in so as to appear to support the ventral extension; or, 

 in other words, so as to give this part the appearance of being actually composed of the 

 arms themselves united laterally and crowned by a vault? If this upward prolongation 

 of the body was really composed of the arms united laterally, and there were no free 

 arms, with the usual ambulacral openings at their bases, the whole visceral cavity would 

 seem to have been hermetically sealed, excepting perhaps the minute lateral pores we 

 have found to exist in the ventral extension of many analogous forms. Prof, de Koninck 

 distinctly states that he was unable to find any traces of an anal or buccal opening in nis 

 type, and we have been equally unable to find any traces of such openings in any of the 

 numerous specimens of Pnterincrinus, Scaphiocrinus, Zeacrinus, Oxlocrinus, and other analo- 

 gous forms we have seen, that are provided with a similar large ventral extension of the 

 body. But in all these types there are well developed free, arms, with ambulacral openings at t'teir 

 bases. It will be remembered that the genus Bdphcrinus was supposed to have its arms 

 united to form a kind of conical vault, until Muller discovered a species with true free 

 arms independent of this part. 



If Bydreionocrinus really possessed free arms, it would otherwise agree so exactly with 

 Zeacrinus that it would seem to be impossible to separate them even subgenencally: in 



which case Troost's name would probably become a synonym under Bydrewr, rtnus as 



Prof de Koninck's name was, we believe, published a few months earlier than Dr. 

 Troost's It is to be hoped that those who may have an opportunity to examini 

 specimens than those studied by Prof, de Koninck, of the typical species of Bydrtia - 

 nus*wi\\ examine them very carefully to see if some remains of free arms cannot be 

 found. 



* Hndreionocrinusf glnlmlaris. de Kon., seems to us to belong to a distinct genus ne^lya'- 

 lied to Agassizocrinus\ which in some species has its base distinctly divided into five parts. 



1870.] 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Ecpachyckinus Boydii, M. and W. 



Body much depressed, or twice and a half as wide as high to the top of the 

 first radials, rounding inward above the second radials, and under to the very 

 profound central concavity below; composed of thick, strong, slightly convex 

 plates. Base very small, and deeply sunken in the concavity of the under 

 side. Subradials comparatively large, convex and curving upward above, and 

 under below, and then again upward into the concavity of the under side, 

 where each of them has a mesial indentation or notch ; each presenting a 

 general pentagonal outline, excepting two on the anal side, which are modi- 

 fied for the reception of the anal pieces. First radial pieces about twice as 

 high, convex, and equaling the subradials in breadth ; all pentagonal in form. 

 Second radial pieces convex, about half as large as the first, which they do not 

 quite equal in breadth, although they are in contact with each other laterally 

 all around, thus giving a contracted appearance to the body just above the 

 first radials ; each about twice as wide as high, pentagonal in form, and bear- 

 ing on one superior sloping side an arm, while on the other there rests a 

 smaller secondary radial bearing two arms ; thus making, as far as can be 

 seen, three arms to a ray, or if the same structure exists in all the rays, fifteen 

 to the entire series. First, or subanal, rather large, nearly quadrangular in 

 form, and resting between the sloping upper sides of two of the subradials, 

 under one side of the first radial on the right, and connecting with the second 

 radial on the left ; but apparently not always extending up far enough to have 

 its upper angle truncated by one of the succeeding anals above. Second anal 

 piece considerably smaller than the first, and resting upon the upper trun- 

 cated side of one of the subradials ; above these two or three smaller pieces 

 appear between the arms. Surface smooth. Sutures between the body-plates 

 rather deep. 



Arms slightly convex on the outer side, with lateral margins flattened and 

 straight, so as to fit closely together when raised up vertically ; each composed 

 below of a single range of wedge-fcrmed pieces, but soon passing into a double 

 alternating series above. 



Breadth of body across the middle, 0-90 inch ; do. across the second radials, 

 0-64 inch ; height to top of first radial pieces, 0-40 inch. 



This is a very neat, symmetrical crinoid, unlike any other known to us, and 

 remarkable for having its much depressed body rounding in above, at the top 

 of its first radial pieces, so as to be very distinctly narrower across above the 

 top of the first radials than below. Its sides also round very neatly under 

 below, and so far into the deep concavity of the under side that the lower 

 (inner) ends of the subradial pieces curve upward into the mesial concavity 

 nearly as far up as their outer or uppper ends. It seems to be the same form 

 figured by Prof. Yandell and Dr. Shuraard, in their " Contributions to the 

 Geology of Kentucky," (see fig. 4 a, b), without a description or name, from 

 near Grayson Springs, Kentucky. The specific name is given in honor of Dr. 

 Bovd, of Chicago, to whom we are indebted for the use of the last specimen 

 seen. 



Locality and position. Chester, Illinois. Chester division of the Lower Car- 

 boniferous limestone series. 



Homocrinus angustatus, M. and W". 



Bod\' below the first radial pieces more or less obconic, or somewhat con- 

 stricted below the middle. Base forming a narrow cup, sometimes nearly as 

 high as wide, with vertical sides ; composed of convex pieces, once and a half 

 to nearly twice as wide as high. Subradial pieces as long as the basals, or 

 sometimes a little longer, and always wider ; more or less convex, all hexa- 

 gonal excepting one on the anal side, which is heptagonal. First radial 

 pieces nearly one-third wider than high, being as wide as the subradials, but 

 shorter, and not so tumid ; all pentagonal, with the upper side truncated their 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



entire breadth. Succeeding radials, of which there are three in each of the 

 rays seen* as wide as the first, but much shorter, or only one-third to one- 

 fourth as long as wide, thus forming free arms so wide' as to be nearly "in 

 contact all around, excepting on the anal side ; last or fourth radial support- 

 ing upon its superior slightly sloping sides, the first divisions of the arras, 

 which, at least in one of the posterior, and one of the lateral rays, bifurcate 

 on the third piece, while some of the divisions appear to divide again on the 

 f iurth piece, which is as far as they can be traced in the specimens examined. 

 Column large, or nearly two-thirds as wide as the base, at its connection with 

 the latter; but suddenly tapering downward, and, at least in one of the ex- 

 amples, ending with the sixth piece in a rounded point, evidently showing 

 this individual to have been free at maturity. Connecting, or upper joint, of 

 the column in the only two examples seen, very thick, and in one quite tumid. 



Height to summit of first radial pieces, 0-48 inch ; breadth of do., 0*50 inch : 

 height of base, 0-20 inch ; breadth of do., 0-24 inch; breadth of rays below 

 the first division, 0-17 inch. 



This species seems to be most nearly related to //. polydactylus of Shumard, 

 from which it differs in the remarkable narrowness of its base, and the pro- 

 portional greater thickness of its column. It also differs in having only three 

 to four primary radials to each ray, instead of five to six. 



Locality and position. Mount Carroll, Illinois. Cincinnati Group of Lower 

 Silurian. 



Genus CODONITES, M. and W. 



In the Proceedings for April of last year, page 84, we proposed, in a note, 

 to found a new genus under the above name, for the reception of Pentremitei 

 ftelliformis, of Owen aud Shumard. This genus agrees with Pentremites in 

 structure, excepting that its openings corresponding to those usually called 

 the ovarian apertures (Hydrospires, of Mr. Billings), instead of forming with 

 the larger opening, usually called the anus, five round apertures, appear 

 at the surface as ten elongated slits, widest at the upper and inner ends, and 

 situated one on each side of each of the so-called pseudo-ambulacra. f Again 

 its aperture, corresponding to that usually considered the anus in Pen'remites, 

 is proportionally larger, more remote from the center of radiation, and com- 

 pletely disconnected from the so-called ovarian opening on each side of it. 

 As in Pentremites, the central hiatus is covered by small plates in perfect speci- 

 mens, and from this little disc of plates two rows of minute alternating pieces 

 are seen to extend out, so as to cover each of the little ambulacral furrows, 

 passing along the middle of each pseudo-ambulacral area and under the cen- 

 tral disc, into the covered central aperture. These little covering plates of 

 the furrows probably extended the whole length of the pseudo-ambulacra, 

 but were doubtless movable, or capable of opening along the middle, being in 

 fact marginal ambulacral pieces. 



As in the genus Pentremites, we also observe in this type three pieces an- 

 chylosed to the bottom of the busasal pieces, with the sutures between them 

 exactlv coinciding with those separating the three busas pieces ; these we pro- 

 pose to call supplementary basal pieces.* The internal folds, or compressed 



The right posterior ray seems to be an exception to this statement, as it appear, to 

 have only three radials including the first, with the second one nearly as large as the 



^Wrtja^t^ *"" to th0Se f 



wmmsssmmmm 



done bv Mr. Billings, in an interesting paper on the stiucture oi , '' e T 1 ;,' ' s ';o The 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tubes of thin calcareous matter under the pseudo-ambulacra, and connecting 

 with the inner ends of the slits representing the so-called ovarian pores, are 

 also constructed as in Pentremites, excepting that here there are twelve of 

 these tubes under each pseudo-ambulacral area, while we have not seen more 

 than eight in any of the true Pentremites, nor more than four in Granatocrinus, 

 though we are not positively sure that these numbers will always be found 

 to hold good as generic distinctions. 



Compared with Codttster, the type under consideration is found to differ in 

 having only two of the slits mentioned in each of the anal and interradial 

 areas, iustead of about eight to sixteen ; while it has these slits equally in the 

 anal and interradial areas, instead of only in the latter, as in Codaster. It 

 also differs from that genus in having the internal folds or compressed tubers, 

 under the so-called pseudo-ambulacra, instead of extending under the whole 

 interradial areas. 



Since proposing this new genus, we have received from Mr. Wachsmuth a 

 fine specimen of another species of this type, which, although widely different 

 specifically, from the typical species, still exhibits very clearly the same gen- 

 eric characters, as 'will be seen from the following specific description : 



Codonites gracilis, D. and W. 



Body comparatively small, pentagonal-suboval, longer than wide, the widest 

 part being at the lower extremities of the so-called pseudo-ambulacral fields, 

 which terminate a little below the middle. Supplementary base small, very 

 short, or only appearing to be composed of a single tripartite joint of the col- 

 umn. Base low, or near three times as wide as high, expanding rapidiy up- 

 ward, and pentagonal in outline, as seen from below ; basal pieces of mode- 

 rate size, two pentagonal and one hexagonal. Radial pieces nearly twice as 

 long as wide, with a general oblong outline, though they are a little wider in 

 the middle than above or below; while the superior lateral angles are a little 

 truncated by ihe anal and interradial pieces, and the lower end is rounded, or 

 somewhat obtusely augular in outline at the middle ; all rather distinctly 

 convex below the middle ; so called pseudo-ambulacral sinuses narrow, and 

 very slightly tapering, extending down a little below the middle, where they 

 each terminate at a little pointed projection, which is directed horizontally 

 outward, so as to add to the pentagonal form of the body, as seen from above 

 or below. Anal piece of moderate size, wider and more obtuse below than 

 the interradials, and narrowed above, with a comparatively large anal opening, 

 nearly dividing it a little below the middle, where it is very contracted.* In- 



would require should be considered subradials, would alone be an objection to this con- 

 clusion. It is also worthy of note, that when these lower pieces are removed, we find the 

 next range of pieces above closed together, so as to form the bottom of the visceral 

 cavity, as true basals. Again in those species of Granatocrinus, like G. Nonooodii, with a 

 deep" concavity in the under side, we find the pieces corresponding to those Mr. Lyon 

 thinks are the subradials, as it were, pushed inward, and forming a little pyramid in the 

 bottom of the visceral cavity, precisely as we see the true basals in various types of 

 Crinoids with a sunken base" In addition to this, although adult specimens of the type 

 here under consideration have this lower part, supposed by Mr. L. to be the true base, 

 as solid as in the true Pentremites, young individuals show that it is actually composed of 

 five or six of the upper joints of the column enlarged and anchylosed together. Similar enlarge- 

 ments of tlie upper joints of the columns of various types of Crinoids are known to occur, 

 as, for instance, in Forbesiocrinils and its allies, in PoUriocrinites, Apiocritiites, etc. It is 

 true, that in these the enlarged part is not divided longitudinally by sutures, as in Pen- 

 tremites, Codonites, etc. This fact, however, will be seen to be of less importance when it 

 is remembered that there are examples of true Crinoids with the column longitudinally 

 divided ; such, for instance, as in Barycrinus, where we see the whole column divided into 

 five sections longitudinally, through its whole length. And here the five sutures of the 

 column coincide with those between the five true basal pieces, exactly as the three sutures 

 between the supplementary basal pieces in Codonites and Pentremites coincide with those 

 between their three, basal pieces. 



* We have several times thought we could see indications of sutures dividing the anal 

 piece of Codonites stelliformis and Granatocrinus Nonooodii into three pieces. That is, a 

 transverse suture at the anal opening, and a longitudinal one dividing the upper or inner 

 half into two pieces. Some casts of the interior of G. Nonooodii seem to snow this dis- 

 tinctly. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



terradials more than twice as long as wide, the widest part being below, while 

 the central region is much contracted, and the upper part, like that of the 

 anal piece, somewhat dart-shaped, and a little concave, with a smaller tuber- 

 cle occupying the middle of the little concavity. 



So-called pseudo-ambulacral fields rather narrow, somewhat convex, with 

 mesial or ambulacral furrows rather wide and deep, particularly above the 

 middle; pore or arm-pieces, about twenty-two on each side of each area ; lan- 

 cet pieces very narrow, but thick, and rather deeply furrowed along the mid- 

 dle above, where they form the bottom of the ambulacral furrows; farther 

 down, the pore pieces close in so as nearly or quite to cover th lancet pieces 

 at the lower end. Elongated slits corresponding to the openings usually 

 called ovarian apertures in Pentremitcs, widest at the upper end, and extending 

 down apparently three-fourths of the length of the pseudo-ambulacral areas, 

 so very close to the margins of the latter as scarcely to leave more than a 

 thin intervening space above, and apparently none below. Central hiatus 

 very small, and doubtless covered by minute plates in perfect specimens. 



Surface distinctly ornamented with very regular, well-defined stria 1 , run- 

 ning parallel to the upper margins of the basal pieces, and to the inferior and 

 lateral margins of the radials. Along the margins of the pseudo-ambulacral 

 areas, narrow flattened, or very slightly concave spaces are seen extending 

 along the surface of the radial pieces, and corresponding to the rather broad, 

 deep furrows seen occupying the same position in the typical species, C. 

 stelliformis. (Column and pinnulae unknown.) 



Height, 0-60 inch ; breadth, about 0-50 inch. 



This species, although agreeing with C. stelliformis in the important charac- 

 ters distinguishing this genus from Penlremites and Codaster, differs so materi- 

 ally in form and other specific characters, as to render a comparison unneces- 

 sary. In general form it much more nearly resembles the true Pentremite.t 

 than the typical form of Codonites does. It must be very rare, as we are not 

 aware that more thau the one specimen has ever been found. 



Locality and position. Lower division of the Burlington group of the Lower 

 Carboniferous, at Burlington, Iowa. Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Pentremites Burlingtonensis, M. and W. 



Body attaining a medium size, ovoid, or ovoid-subglobose, depressed and 

 short below, and rounded and more produced above. Supplementary base 

 very small, or only one-fourth as wide as the base, rounded and firmly anchy- 

 losed to the true base ; short, or apparently composed of not more than three 

 anchylosed segments from the upper end of the column. Base of moderate 

 size, much depressed, or having the form of a pentagonal dish. Radial pieces 

 once and a half as long as wide, rather narrow below, and widening upward 

 to near the middle, above which they are very slightly contracted to the top ; 

 each divided three-fourths of its length by its rather wide pseudo-ambulacral 

 sinus. Anal and interradial pieces very small, exposed part presenting an 

 elongate rhombic outline, the upper part being more elongate and acute thau 

 the Tower. So-called pseudo-ambulacral areas* wide, moderately convex, 

 taperino- rather gradually below the middle, and more abruptly above ; so- 

 called nore pieces about 35 on each side of each area, less than half as long, 

 transversely, as the breadth of the exposed part of the lancet pieces at their 

 widest part, nearly transverse above, but becoming somewhat oblique toward the 



lower part of the area ; supplementary pore pieces small. Lancet pieces ex- 

 posing a wide, lanceolate form, being widest above the middle, gradually ta 

 pering below, and contracting abruptly above; each with its mesial or amba 

 lacral furrow rather wide and deep, and minutely crenate within ; tra n a vers 



* Although we use here the u 8 ual term for these parts, we really regard them as recum- 

 bent arms, similar to those seen in some Cystoidea. 



1870.] 3 



rse 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



furrows well denned, and also minutely crenate. Central hiatus small. So- 

 called ovarian openings small, and those distinct from the anal opening ap- 

 pearing at the surface as four pairs of closely approximated elongate-oval 

 pores. Anal opening comparatively large, and, as usual in the genus, inclu- 

 ding one of the pores on each side. Surface ornamented with five parallel 

 strise, running as usual in allied species. 



Height of one of the smaller, less globose specimens, exclusive of the little 

 supplementary base, 0-50 inch ; breadth, 0-49 inch. Height of a large, more 

 ventricose specimen, 0-87 inch ; breadth of do., 0-84 inch. 



This species has much the form and general appearance of the common P. 

 Godoni, so mueh so, indeed, that those who give wide limits to species 

 would probably fail to observe any well defined differences. Ou comparison, 

 it will be found to differ, however, in the following characters, viz. : In the 

 first place, its pseudo-ambulacral areas are more convex, and not bounded by 

 near such sharply elevated margins of the radial pieces. Its pore pieces are 

 also larger, and scarcely more than half as numerous as in P. Godoni. Its 

 anal and interradial pieces are likewise decidedly smaller than in that species, 

 while it also presents the well-marked difference of having its so-called 

 ovarian openings with each pair appearing at the surface, as two closely ap- 

 proximated, but distinct elongate-oval pores, instead of as a single round, 

 larger opening. It moreover holds a much lower geological position than P. 

 Godoni. 



It is the first true, typical Penlremitewe have seen with each pair of ovarian 

 pores (so-called) appearing as two distinct pores at the surface. It must be 

 quite rare, as only three specimens have come under our observation. 



Locality and position. Upper division of the Burlington group of the Lower 

 Carboniferous, at Burlington, Iowa. No. 387 of Mr. Wachsmuth's collection. 



Oligopoeus Coreyi, M. and W. 



Body small, subglobose, or apparently depressed-globose, and deeply sul- 

 cate ; composed of moderately thick plates; apical region sunken. Inter- 

 ambulacral areas twice as wide as the ambulacral, very convex, and rounded 

 over from side to side ; composed at the middle by six ranges of plates, which 

 decrease in numbers to apparently about three ranges, at the upper and lower 

 extremities of the areas. Ambulacra! areas deeply furrowed along each side, 

 and rising into a rather prominent ridge along the middle ; composed of 

 somewhat irregular plates, as to size and form, but clearly showing but two 

 rows ou each side of the mesial zig-zag suture, the outer range being gener- 

 ally a little shorter in the transverse diameter than the inner ; the two pores 

 of each piece situated near its outer end. Apical disc unknown. Oral aper- 

 ture, as seen in the test, comparatively large. Surface unknown. 



Height, as near as can be determined fiom a somewhat distorted specimen, 

 about 1-65 inches ; breadth near 2 inches. 



This species is most nearly allied to O. Dance, but differs not only in being 

 much smaller, and apparently more depressed in form, but in having much 

 more deeply furrowed ambulacral areas, and only six rows of interambulacral 

 pieces at the widest part of the areas, instead of eight, the plates being also 

 larger in proportion to the size of the bod}'. 



From our O. nobilis it will also be readily distinguished by its much smaller 

 size, and more deeply sulcate ambulacral areas, which are also proportionally 

 much wider. It also differs in having six rows of interambulacral pieces at 

 the widest part of each area, instead of only five. 



Locality and position. Crawfordsville, Indiana; from the Keokuk division 

 of the Lower Carboniferous series. The specimen from which the description 

 was made out belongs to Mr. Corey, of Crawfordsville, Ind.. to whom we have 

 dedicated the spechs. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 36 



BRACHIOPODA. 



Chonetbs?? millepunctata, M. aud W. 



Shell attaining: a large size, very thin, transversely subsemicireular. or 

 more than twice as wide as long, with lateral extremities rounded. I>< 

 valve nearly flat, or but slightly aud evenly concave ; hinge line a little less 

 than the greatest transverse diameter; cardinal process rather stout, 

 with an obscure linear ridge (or sulcus) extending forward from its I 

 nearly to the front; cardinal edge slightly thickened within, so as to 

 form a faintly defined ridge extending about half-way from the cardi- 

 nal process toward each lateral margin, but apparently without any trace of 

 sockets for the reception of teeth in the other valve ; muscular aud other in- 

 ternal markings unknown; surface ornamented by numerous slender, exceed- 

 ingly regular, closely arranged concentric lines, exactly parallel with each 

 other and the front and lateral margins. (Ventral valve unknown.) 



Length of a medium sized specimen, 1-30 inch; breadth, 2-95 inches. 

 Largest examples seen, 2-10 inches in length, and of nearly the same propor- 

 tional breadth as the others. 



Of this very remarkable shell we have seen six or eight specimens, and 

 some fragments of others. All of the specimens yet found, however, are dor- 

 sal valves only, the ventral valve being entirely unknown to us. The slightly 

 worn, or more or less weathered condition of the specimens has obliterated 

 whatever muscular or other internal markings there may have been. In most 

 cases only patches of the shell itself remain, though, even in these cases, the 

 general outline and external surface markings are very distinctly defined in 

 the matrix. All of the specimens show a rather obscure, linear, internal sul- 

 cus extending from the base of the cardiual process nearly to the anterior 

 margin. This, however, is probably caused by the accidental removal of a 

 linear mesial ridge, because we also see it equally defined in impressions of 

 the external surface of the valve left in the matrix, just as would be the case 

 if a firm internal ridge had been, owing to the thinness of the shell, as it were, 

 pressed through. The concentric lines of the surface present an extraordinary 

 degree of regularity, both in size and arrangement. On a medium sized dor- 

 sal valve about sixty of these lines may be counted, while some of the largest 

 show twice as many. They are of exactly the same size and distance apart 

 on all the specimens, and of so nearly the same size on all parts of the same 

 individual as to appear to the eye to be exactly uniform throughout. By 

 measurement, however, we count fifteen of them in the space of 0-25 inch 

 near the margins of a medium sized specimen, and twenty in the same space 

 near the beak. In a few instances we have observed what seemed to be the 

 faintest possible traces of a few larger radiating lines or cost*, near the mid- 

 dle of the anterior margin of the dorsal valve. None of the specimens show 

 the cardinal process entire, but as far as its characters can be made out it 

 seems to have been much as in Chonetes. 



The most remarkable character of this shell, however, remains to be men- 

 tioned. That is, its extremely coarse punctate structure, and the unusually 

 close arrangement of the punctures, which are so large as to be nearly visible 

 to the unassisted eye. As seen by the aid of a common single pocket lens, 

 they present, on the inner surface of the dorsal valve, much the appearance 

 and arrangement of the cells of a delicate Ckxtetes, the spaces between them 

 being much less than the diameter of the pores themselves. They appear to 

 diminish rapidly in size, however, as they approach the external surface, near 

 which they seem to be a little less than the diameter of the spaces by which 

 they are separated. As we have never seen such a shell structure as this in 

 any species known to possess the characters of the genus Chonete*, nor indeed 

 in any other known Brachiopod, we are very strongly inclined to believe our 

 shell really belongs to an undescribed genus. The fact that there appear to 

 be no sockets in the cardinal margins of its dorsal Talve, for the reception oi 



1870.] 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



teeth in the other valve, would also favor the conclusion that it is not a true 

 Chonetes. Nevertheless, we prefer to place it provisionally in that genus, un- 

 til specimens can be obtained showing the dorsal valve, with the muscular 

 impressions and other generic characters. Should it be found, as we believe 

 it will, to be a new generic type, we would suggest for it the name hogramma 

 (tiros, equal; }?*/*/*, a line), in allusion to the remarkable equality of the con- 

 centric lines of the surface. 



To whatever genus our shell may really belong, it is evidently very closely 

 allied, even specifically, to a form figured by Mr. Davidson from the Carbon- 

 iferous limestone of Scotland, in his valuable Monograph of the British Car- 

 boniferous Brachiopoda, vol. ii, part v, pi. lv, fig. 13. Mr. Davidson referred 

 his shell, with much doubt, on the authority of Dr. De Koninck, to Chonetes 

 concentrica, of the latter author. We fully concur with Mr. Davidson, how- 

 ever, in the opinion that it is distinct from Prof. De Koninck's* species, as it 

 is much longer, and instead of being marked with only 12 to 13 large concen- 

 tric ridges, has about 37 regular, more concentric lines. In our species there 

 are about twice the number of lines seen on that figured by Mr. Davidson, in 

 specimens of the same size ; and as this character is remarkably uniform in 

 all our specimens, we cannot believe it otherwise than a specific difference. 



Locality and position. Upper Coal Measures, Marion County, Illinois, where 

 it occurs associated with nearly all the fossils in the Upper Coal Measures of 

 Kansas and Iowa, and in those in Nebraska referred by Profs. Marcou and 

 Geinitz to the Permian. 



Spikifkr fastigatcs, M. and W. 



Shell attaining a rather large size, moderately convex, very transverse, or 

 distinctly more than twice as wide as long ; greatest breadth on the hinge 

 line ; lateral extremities very attenuate and acutely pointed in young speci- 

 mens, but becoming more obtuse in larger individuals ; front and anterior 

 lateral margins broadly and rather regularly rounded. Dorsal valve nearly 

 as convex as the ventral ; beak depressed, somewhat incurved, and scarcely 

 projecting beyond the hinge line; area of rather more than usual breadth for 

 that of a dorsal valve, and arched with the beak; mesial fold commencing at 

 the beak scarcely larger than one of the ribs on each side of it, but increasing 

 gradually in breadth and prominence to the front, where it is occupied by 

 about six to eight costye, which, however, coalesce into one or two at the 

 beak. Ventral valve regularly convex over the central region, and somewhat 

 compressed toward the lateral extremities ; mesial sinus commencing narrow 

 and very small near the beak, and widening and deepening gradually to the 

 front, where it is occupied by about eight depressed, rounded costa?, which, 

 like those on the fold of the other valve, coalesce with those on each side 

 and with each other, so as to leave but one that extends quite to the beak ; 

 beak rather depressed and not projecting much beyond the hinge line, arched 

 or moderately incurved; area rather narrow, and extending with almost per- 

 fectly parallel margins, quite out to the lateral extremities of the hinge, marked 

 by the usual transverse and vertical striae ; foramen wider than high, rather 

 large, and extending close up under the rather flattened apex of the beak. 



Surface ornamented by depressed, rounded, bifurcating or trifid, more or 

 less fasciculated costs, about five of which, on each side of the mesial sinus and 

 fold, are larger than the others, and divide before reaching the front, so as to 

 form as many fasciculi of two or three ribs each, the furrows between which 

 are less strongly defined than those between the bundles. Toward the lateral 

 extremities some eight or ten smaller, simple, obscure costae, that do not 

 reach the beaks, may also be counted, on each side of each valve, gradually 

 becoming obsolete near the ends. Crossing the whole, fine obscure, undulat- 



* It is due to Prof. De Koninck that we should state that it was only doubtfully he re- 

 ferred the English specimen to his species. 



[April 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



ing strife, and a few stronger marks of growth may be observed on well p 

 served specimens, the stria, however, excepting near the front and lateral 

 margins, not being readily seen without the aid of a magnifier. 



Length, about 1-45 inches; breadth, 2-20 inches; convexity, about L5I 

 inches ; height of area at the beak. 0-2(J inch. 



We have had specimens of this fine Spirifer under consideration for a long 

 time, and after numerous careful comparisons, we have been unable to iden- 

 tify it with any of the described species. It seems to be most nearly allied to 

 our common Coal-Measure species S. cameraltis, of Morton, with which it agi 

 in the fasciculated character of its costa?, and in general appearance. It dif- 

 fers, however, in several characters by which it can be readily distinguished 

 on comparison. In the first place, its larger fasciculated costic arc distinctly 

 broader, and rather more depressed on the anterior slope of its valves, and 

 proportionally less numerous. The incurved apex of the beak of its ventral 

 valves is always less abruptly curved, and much more flattened. The most 

 marked character, however, is to be observed in its cardinal area, which lias 

 its margins almost perfectly parallel, instead of being always sloping from th< 

 beak to the lateral extremities. The same characters and its narrow mesial 

 fold and sinus distinguish it from the variety of S. striatus, with somewhat 

 fasciculated costre. It belongs to the subgenus Triffonotreta. 



Locality and position. Keokuk division of the Lower Carboniferous series, 

 at Crawfordsville, Indiana. 



Stricklandinia deformis, M. aud W. 



Shell (internal casts) longitudinally subovate, oblong, or sometimes in 

 young examples nearly or quite as wide as long; valves very nearly equal, 

 and sometimes showing very faint traces of an obscure mesial prominence on 

 the dorsal valve, and of a corresponding depression near the front of the ven- 

 tral valve ; hinge line straight, and less than the breadth of the valves ; sur- 

 face apparently smooth, or only with concentric lines on the young shell, 

 while casts of the adult show so'rne traces of a few obscure, irregular, radiat- 

 ing ridges. Beaks, area and finer surface markings unknown. 



Length of a young internal cast, 1 inch ; breadth, 0-97 inch ; convexity, 0-46 

 inch. Length of a large specimen, 193 inches; breadth, 1-58 inches ; con- 

 vexity, 1 inch. 



This shell varied so greatly in form at different stages of its growth that il 

 is very difficult to give a description that will convey a correct idea of it. 

 Young examples from 0'70 to one inch in length approach a broad obovate 

 form, "being truncated on the hinge line, and somewhat narrowly rounded 

 at the middle of the front ; while their posterior lateral margins are more or 

 less straio-htened and inflected, as we often seen in Rensselaeria. After attain- 

 ing this size and form, the shell, judging from some four adult examples we 

 have seen, seems to have suddenly commenced a more vigorous growth, 

 mainly forward and antero-laterally, so as to attain a much larger size, leav- 

 ing the valves of the young shell, as it were, opened and spread upon the 

 beaks, thus completely destroying the symmetry of the entire shell. At this 

 stao-e of o-rowth the shell has a curious constricted appearance at the con- 

 nection of the young and adult shell ; while the whole breadth posteriorly 

 is onlv that of the young shell, and the widest part is then some distance in 

 advance of this, and the posterior margins are strongly flattened by their 

 sudden inflection towards each other there. 



The casts show that the chamber in the beak of the ventral valve is of 

 moderate size, and supported upon a rather short mesial septum 1 he socket 

 processes are seen, by their impressions in the cast, to be small, not united, 

 and scarcely assuming the character of plates; while the crural pro, ex- 

 tended from their inner lower sides forward nearly parallel so as t< o - 

 slender, deep perforations in the cast. The surface of the young shell appeara 



1870.J 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



to have been smooth, or only marked with the concentric strias, but internal 

 casts of large individuals sometimes show very faint traces of a few broad ir- 

 regular, radiating, flattened ridges. 



It is probable that this species is most nearly allied to Stricklandinia David- 

 soni, of Billings (Geol. Mag. vol. v, pi. iv, fig. 1, 1 a), which, in some stages 

 of its growth, it resembled rather nearly in form. In all the large examples, 

 however, it differs extremely from that shell, in its remarkable narrowness 

 across the umbones, and its truncated or flattened posterior lateral margins. 

 Its front is also less produced aud less narrowly rounded in the middle in 

 these larger specimens. 



Locality and position. All the specimens of this species we have seen were 

 found loose in Carroll County, Illinois, near rocks of the age of the Niagara 

 group. They are all in the condition of white quartz casts of the interior. 



LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 



MONOTIS ? GREGARIA. 



Shell very small, extremely thin, compressed, oblique, varying from trun- 

 cato-suboval to subcircular ; hinge line less than the breadth of the valves ; 

 auricles small, obtusely angular, undefined by any sinuosity of the margins ; 

 posterior (?) margin rather regularly rounded in outline, and rounding into 

 the pallial margin ; anter. (?) border prominent below and rounding into the 

 base, but straight and ascending with a backward slant to the hinge ; beaks 

 located near the middle of the hinge line, above which tbey seem scarcely to 

 rise. Surface marked by extremely fine concentric striae, and a few some- 

 what larger furrows or wrinkles of growth, crossed on the anterior (?) half 

 of each valve by small radiating costs?, generally not defined near the an- 

 terior (?) margin. 



Antero-posterior diameter, 0-25 inch ; height, or diameter at right angles 

 to the hinge, 0-20 inch ; convexity unknown. 



Of this little shell we have numerous specimens, all compressed to entire 

 flatness on the surfaces of the laminae of shale, many of them lying with the 

 two valves opened out and connected by their hinge margins. As thus seen, 

 their small size causes them to appear much like the valves of Posidonomia, 

 or those of some of the little phyllopod Crustacea. This form, however, is 

 found, on closer examination, to be different, while their radiating costaa also 

 indicate different affinities. Some individuals are a little wider proportionally, 

 in their antero-posterior diameter, than that from which the ab'ove measure- 

 ments were taken, and these have much the outline of the left valve of some 

 forms of Aviculopecten, excepting that the auricles are not in the slightest de- 

 gree defined (in either valve) by any traces of a marginal sinus. 



It is possible that this little shell may be a true Lima, as it has much the 

 form of some species of that genus, and there certainly are in > the Western 

 Coal-measures, two or more species apparently agreeing in all respects with 

 that genus. If a Lima, of course the side we have described as the anterior 

 must be the posterior, and vice versa. The reasons for doubting its relations 

 to the genus Lima, however, are, (1), its extreme thinness; (2), the fact that 

 it seems to have a prismatic structure ; and (3), its very small size. It is 

 possible, how-ver, that the extremely thin fibrous shell, as we now see, 

 may consist only of the external lamina, left after the decomposition of the 

 inner layers. If so, and the fibrous appearance is really the original struc- 

 ture, it would more probably belong to some perhaps undescribed genus, 

 allied to Aviculopecten, of the family Aviculidaz. If a true Monotis, it would 

 be the only known species of that genus in our Carboniferous rocks, the 

 common Western Coal-measure shells usually referred to that genus, belong- 

 ing to a very distinct group, to which Beyrich has applied the name Pseudo- 

 mon 'tis. 



L'cdity and position. Jacksonville Shaft, Illinois, from near the middle of 

 the Coal-measures. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1'J 



AVICULOPECTEN SPINDLIFERUS, M. and \\\ 



Shell of medium size, rather compressed, having a moderately oblique 

 truncato-suboval, or suborbicular outline. Hinge apparently nearlj equal- 

 ing the antero-posterior diameter of the shell; ventral margin forming a 

 broad seiniovate outline, being more abruptly rounded up behind than in 

 front. Posterior wing rather pointed, apparently not quite as long as the 

 rounded margin of the valves below, from which it is separated by a round* I 

 sinus. Anterior wing compressed, narrow, as long as the anterior margin of 

 the valves; in the left valve pointed, and separated from the margin below by 

 a narrowly rounded, rather deep sinus. Beak of the left valve moderately 

 prominent, and placed a little in advance of the middle. Surface of same 

 valve ornamented with numerous, distinct, unequal, radiating costs, arranged 

 usually with one or two smaller ones between each two of a somewhat larger 

 series, the latter of which bear numerous little round, regularly arranged, 

 somewhat oblique spines ; crossing the whole there are also numerous minute 

 concentric striae. (Right valve unknown.) 



Height of left valve, about 1-50 inch ; antero-posterior diameter, near 2 

 inches. 



This is a delicate species, apparently with thin valves. Its costaa seem to 

 be nearly equally developed over the whole of the left valve, including the 

 wings, or at any rate the posterior one. On the body of this valve, near the 

 ventral margin, about five of the larger spiniferous costs, and some Bis 

 or eight of the smaller non-spiniferous ones may be counted in the space 

 of half an inch. The spines of the larger costae were short, round and 

 pointed (not being formed by vaulted laminae of growth), and arranged 

 along these costae at regular intervals of about 0-10 inch apart, those at the 

 ventral margin being larger than the others, and projecting a little below the 

 border. An impression of a part of the anterior wing of the right valve shows 

 that it was distinctly costate, two or three of the costae running nearly paral- 

 lel to the hinge margin, and bearing short spinules. 



In casts of this species without the spines, the costae present much the same 

 subnodose appearance as those seen on A. fa llax (= Peclen fallax, McCoy, 

 Carb. Foss. Ireland, pi. 14, fig. 2), but that species seems to have had uo 

 spines. It is also much less oblique, and higher in proportion to its antero- 

 posterior diameter. 



We place this species in the genus Aviculopecten only provisionally, as we 

 have not seen its hinge. It is highly probable that there are a number of un- 

 described genera among the Palaeozoic species usually included in the genus 

 Aviculopecten, or wrongly referred by some to the genus Pecten. 



Locality and position. Crawfordsville, Indiana. Keokuk division of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



Genus CARBONARCA, Meek and Worthen. 



Shell (as determined from internal casts) equivalve, inequilateral, very 

 convex, transversely oblong or oval; umbones gibbous, prominent, and 

 strongly incurved with subangular or prominent posterior slopes; valves 

 ' closed all around, with smooth margins; ligament external; cardinal margin 



- ob- 



a little arched, with, at the anterior extremity in each valve, two rather 

 lique comparatively stout teeth, and extending along its entire length I 

 immediately behind these, a row of minute interlocking teeth or crenulati 



rom 

 ations, 



itely 

 as in Area. _ _. ,._. , 



This genus seems to belong to the Areidse, near Isoarca. It differs, how- 

 ever, very decidedly from that genus, in having, in addition to the ' ^" 

 terl 

 ope 



locking emulations along the whole length of the hinge, two well level- 

 ed and independent larger teeth at the anterior end oi the hinge. The 

 specimens seen are all internal casts, but an impression o the hinge of a 

 right valve, in the matrix, shows its characters very clearly. There j s no 



1870.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 01 



gradation from the series of minute teeth into the two large ones at the ante- 

 rior end of the hiQge, the first of the smaller series immediately behind the 

 two larger ones being as minute as any of those farther back, so that the con- 

 trast between the two sets of teeth is well marked and abrupt. The hinge 

 margin was doubtless provided with a cardinal area, but as we only have in- 

 ternal cast, it has not yet been seen. 



Carbonarca gibbosa, M. and W. 



Shell transverse, short-oblong, very convex ; posterior side wider than the 

 other, and vertically subtruncated ; anterior margin rather narrowly rounded ; 

 ventral margin nearly straight along the middle, but sloping and rounding up 

 anteriorly, and more abruptly behind , cardinal edge equaling two thirds of 

 the whole lengtli ; larger anterior teeth inclined forward and upward, and 

 those of the small series ranging nearly vertically, or slightly inclined forward 

 anteriorly, and a little backward behind; umbones gibbous, but with their 

 outer and upper surfaces a little flattened, so as to impart a slightly suban- 

 gular or prominent character to the post-umbonal slopes ; immediate apices 

 of the strongly incurved beaks placed about one-fourth the entire length of 

 the shell behind the anterior extremity. Surface markings unknown. 



Length, 0-82 inch ; height to top of cardinal margin (of cast) behind the 

 beaks, 0-56 inch ; do. to top of umbones, 0-65 ; convexity of the two valves, 

 0-57 inch. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois ; Upper Coal measures. Also 

 same horizon at Lasalle, 111. The specimens from the latter locality are, in 

 some examples, more depressed and oblique than the typical form from near 

 Springfield, and these may possibly belong to a distinct species, if the differ- 

 ences noted are not due to accidental distortion. If really distinct, this form 

 might be called ft depressa. 



* Macrodon delicatds, M. and W. 



Shell small, about twice and a half as long as high, moderately convex, 

 elongate rhomboidal in outline ; posterior margin obliquely truncated, so as 

 to be angular at the base; cardinal margin about three-fourths the entire 

 length, and nearly parallel with the base ; anterior extremity very narrowly 

 rounded ; basal margin nearly straight along the middle, but rounding very 

 gradually upward anteriorly ; beaks depressed, and placed about one-fourth 

 the entire length of the valves behind the anterior extremity; posterior um- 

 bonal slopes subangular from the beaks obliquely backward and downward, 

 to the sharply rounded or subangular posterior basal extremity, while the 

 spaces behind and above these slopes are compressed or slightly concave. 

 Surface marked by small ridges and lines of growth, which are crossed by 

 raised radiating lines or linear costse, rather widely separated posteriorly, but 

 more closely arranged, and less strongly defined toward the front part of the 

 valves. (Cardinal area, binge and muscular impressions unknown.) 



Length, 0-45 inch ; height, 0-19 inch ; convexity, about 0-1 1 inch. 



This little shell will be readily distinguished from its associate, formerly de- 

 scribed by us under the name M. tenuisiriatus, by its much more oblique and less 

 gibbous form ; but more especially by having its linear radiating costal sepa- 

 rated by wide intervening spaces, instead of being closely crowded together. 

 Indeed, we know of no species with which it could be confounded. 



Locality and position. Springfield, Illinois. Upper Coal Measures. 



* In the Proceedings of the Chicago Academy of Sciences for March, 1866, p. 17, we 

 suggested that in case the name Macrodon, Lycett, could not be retained for this genus, 

 because it had been previously used by Mul'ler for a genus of fishes, that it might be 

 called Parallelodon. In that case the name of this species would have to be written Paral- 

 h lotion delicatus, 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. II 



Modiolopsis subnasuta, M. and W. 



Shell rather small, elongate, narrow and slightly arcuate, rather distinctly 

 convex, the most gibbous part being along the posterior umbonal slopes, 

 above the middle ; dorsal and ventral margins slightly diverging posteriorly, 

 so as to make the widest (highest) part of the valves nearest the posterior end, 

 while the most sinuous part of the ventral margin is a little in advance of the 

 middle; anterior end narrow, a little produced, with an oblique forward 

 slope of its upper margin, to its narrowly rounded extremity ; posterior mar- 

 gin somewhat cuneate, with an oblique truncation more or less convex in 

 outline, to the posterior basal extremity, which is narrowly rounded ; cardi- 

 nal margin long and a little arched; beaks much depressed, and placed rather 

 nearer the anterior edge than to the middle ; posterior umbonal slope.-; promi- 

 nent, and forming an obtuse ridge, which extends obliquely backward to the 

 posterior basal edge of each valve ; anterior muscular scar comparatively 

 large, round, shallow, and placed near the edge of the valves ; small pedal 

 muscular scars distinct just above those of the anterior adductors; surface of 

 internal cast showing moderately distinct, irregular, concentric undulations, 

 which are most strongly defined below, and in front of the posterior umbonal 

 slopes, on the flattened or concave flanks. 



Length, 1-31 inch; height, 0-50 inch; convexity, 0-40 inch. 



This is a neat, symmetrical shell, resembling 31. nasuta, Conrad (sp.), but 

 differs in having the narrowed anterior end less produced, the beaks being 

 placed farther forward; while its posterior end is broader, and obliquely 

 truncated, instead of being rounded. Its general outljne is more like that of 

 Orthonota contractu, Hall (Palseont. N. Y., vol. i, pi. 32, fig. 8), though its lower 

 margin is less distinctly sinuous, its beaks more depressed, and its posterior 

 margin more oblique ; while it wants the oblique dorsal wrinkles seen on 

 casts of that shell, being a true Modiolopsis. 



Compared with foreign species, our shell is found to be very closely allied 

 to an English Upper Silurian species described by Mr. Salter under the name 

 M. platyphylla. Our shell, however, has the anterior end narrower and more 

 produced, with more prominent posterior umbonal ridges. 



Locality and position. Galena Limestone of the Lower Silurian, in Carroll 

 County, Illinois. 



SCHIZODUS AMPLUS. 



Shell attaining a large size, as determined from internal casts, moderately 

 convex, oblong-suboval in outline, or about one-fourth of its length longer 

 than high ; anterior side short, rounding from above the middle into the base : 

 outline of ventral margin forming a broad semi-ovate curve ; posterior margin 

 nearly vertically subtruncated, but rounding abruptly into the dorsal margin 

 above and into the base below ; cardinal border nearly straight, and sloping 

 very slightly from the beaks posteriorly ; beaks much depressed, nearly ante- 

 rior, incurved, closely approximated, and directed forward and inward. Pos- 

 terior adductor muscular scar shallow, rather large, suboval, and located close 

 up under the posterior extremity of the hinge ; anterior do., smaller, deeper, 

 subovate, and placed very near the anterior margin a little above the middle, 

 with rather distinct, nearly detached, pedal muscular scars at their upper 

 ends. Posterior umbonal slopes with each a distinct sulcus extending from 

 the beaks obliquely backward and downward, becoming wider and more 

 shallow as they descend, so as to die out before reaching the posterior basal 

 margin. (External surface unknown.) . 



Length of cast, 2-60 inches; height of do., 2-15 inches; convexity, 1-56 



111 This' is the largest species of Schizodus (if it belongs to that genus) we have 

 yet seen. Our only specimen is an internal cast, giving no idea of the nature 

 of the hinge. From its general appearance, however, and the nature of its 



1870.] 




42 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



muscular and simple pallial scars, together with the remains of its external 

 ligament, we can have little doubt in regard to its being a Schizodus. In size 

 and general outline, its internal cast closely resembles Amphiccelia Leidyi, de- 

 scribed by Prof. Hall from the Upper Silurian Limestone at Bridgeport, near 

 Chicago. It has, however, obviously no near relations to that shell. For a 

 Schizodus, its beaks are unusually depressed and oblique. We know of no 

 other species resembling it in general form. 



Compared with Schizodus occidentalis (= Cypricardia ? occidentalis, Swallow), 

 which seems to be a true Schizodus, and agrees with our shell in size, it is at 

 once distinguished by its much more depressed beaks, less convex valves, and 

 broadly round posterior outline. Prof. Swallow's species also occurs in our 

 Coal Measures, but we have yet only seen it from a higher part of the series, 

 at Lasalle. 



Locality and position. Seaville, Fulton County, Illinois, Coal No. 1, of Coal 

 Measures. 



Schizodus (Prisconaia) perelegans, M. and W. 



Shell attaining a moderately large size, ovate-subcordate in general form, 

 very gibbous, apparently closed all around, rather thin. Anterior and poste- 

 rior views presenting a neat cordate outline. Pallial margin semiovate, the 

 most prominent part being in front of the middle ; anterior side very short, 

 and rounding up abruptly from below ; posterior side narrowly rounded, or 

 subangular; hinge line apparently rather short. Beaks very gibbous, promi- 

 nent, pointed, and strongly incurved, so as to bring their points nearly or quite 

 in contact; located near the anterior margin; lunule excavated, but not dis- 

 tinctly denned. Surface appearing to the unassisted eye almost perfectly 

 smooth, excepting very regular, raised, concentric stria?, or small costre, on 

 the anterior part of the valves, with obscure traces of smaller stria? crossing 

 the same. Under the highest power, however, that can be well used as a hand 

 magnifier, the whole surface is seen to be covered by an extremely minute, 

 perfectly regular, crowded sculpturing, as if made by crowded, microscopic 

 cross lines, entirely invisible even under a good common pocket magnifier. 



Height of a small specimen, 0-90 inch; convexity of same, 0-80 inch; 

 length, about 1*18 inches. Other imperfect specimens show that the species 

 sometimes attained three or four times the size of that from which the above 

 measurements were taken. 



The extremely minute ornamentation mentioned on this shell may be prop- 

 erly considered microscopic, being entirely invisible under a good common 

 pocket lens, by the aid of which it shows apparently an almost polished 

 surface. When examined in a strong light, however, with a sufficiently high 

 magnifier, the finer markings are seen to present a delicacy, fineness, regu- 

 larity, and beauty that art could scarcely attain, even by the aid of the most 

 accurate mathematical ruling machine. In some specimens this delicate 

 marking has been, in places, partly removed, as if by the abrasion of an ex- 

 tremely thin external layer, or epidermis, to which it appears to be, to some 

 extent, confined. When this layer has been in this way removed, however, 

 traces of the same marking can be seen on the surface of the layer beneath, 

 by the aid of a sufficiently strong magnifier. 



The stronger concentric, raised stria?, or small costas, seen on the anterior 

 part of the valves, do not run exactly parallel to the very obscure marks of 

 growth, but cross them obliquely. On following these little costae back 

 toward the gibbous part of the valves, they all seem to become suddenly ob- 

 solete ; but on examining them with a common pocket lens, they are seen to 

 be continued over the convex part of the valves, as minute, impressed hair 

 lines, very regularly disposed, so as to leave comparatively rather wide spaces 

 between. Here, too, they are seen not to be exactly parallel to the faint 

 marks of growth, and on following them back they are observed to terminate 

 suddenly at a similar impressed hair-line, descending with a slight curve from 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4:! 



the posterior side of each beak, apparently to near the middle of the posterior 

 margin. Above and behind this oblique line, some three, four, or more simi- 

 lar parallel, regularly disposed lines also extend from the back part of each 

 beak to the posterior margin of the valves, thus marking off, as it were, a 

 kind of corselet, somewhat similar to what we see in Protocardia, excepting 

 that these radiating lines are scarcely visible to the unassisted eye and sepa- 

 rated by spaces many times their own breadth. In the spaces between th 

 posterior radiating lines the magnifier also shows numerous minute, raised 

 granules, but these are much larger and more prominent than, and entirely 

 distinct from, the extremely minute, crowded sculpturing seen by the aid of 

 a higher magnifier over the whole of the surface. It is probably mainly due 

 to the fact that the specimens have had the whole substance of the shell re- 

 placed by brilliant iron pyrites, that the delicate ornamentation mentioned 

 has been preserved. 



We know nothing of the nature of the hinge and interior of this beautiful 

 shell, and consequently only place it provisionally in the genus Schizodus. We 

 only know that other species found in our Coal-measures, agreeing apparently 

 in their internal characters with Schizodus, show the same kind of very minute 

 sculpturing seen on this. As some of these are very similar to the type on 

 which Mr. Conrad proposed to found his genus Prisconaia, from the Coal- 

 measures of Kansas, we requested him to examine his typical specimen to see 

 if any traces of such minute Burface markings could be seen on it by the aid 

 of a strong magnifier, and he informed us that his shell shows the same 

 sculpturing. As this marking is very peculiar, and entirely unlike any orna- 

 mentation we have ever seen on any other fossil, even in examples of various 

 types in exactly the same state of preservation, it is not improbable that our 

 shell will be found to possess the internal character of Mr. Conrad's type. 



Locality and position. From the shales over the fifth coal bed of the Illinois 

 Coal-measures, at Danville, of that State. For the use of the typical speci- 

 mens we are under obligations to Dr. J. C. Winslow, of Danville. 



Genus CLINOPISTHA, M. and W. 



Shell transversely oval, very thin, rather ventricose, equivalve, very inequi- 

 lateral; beaks near the posterior extremity and directed backward ; that of 

 the right valve with its immediate apex curving under the beak of the left, 

 which seems to be a little excavated for the reception of the same ; ligament 

 external, short, rather prominent, and occupying an oval, or lance-oval shal- 

 low cavity, formed by the slight inflection of the margins of the valves imme- 

 diately behind the beaks ; valves with their margins smooth within and closed 

 all around ; hinge apparently edentulous ; surface polished, and with merely 

 fine lines or marks of growth, sometimes crossed by very faint traces of radi- 

 ating lines, which are usually obsolete externally, but often seen on internal 

 casts ; muscular impressions shallow, those of the anterior side larger than 

 the others and subquadrangular in form, with a faint oblique ridge along the 

 upper margin ; posterior muscular impressions oval and occupying somewhat 

 flattened spaces near the truncated margin ; pallial line faintly marked and 



simple. . 



Although we have not seen very clearly the hinge of this shell, we have 

 been able, from impressions of it in the matrix, to be satisfied that it is not 

 crenated, as in the Nuculidse and Arcidx; and we believe it to be entirely 

 edentulous. In regard to the affinities of this type, however, we are left in 

 doubt. In its thinness, and the posterior position of its beaks, as well as in 

 the form and general appearance of its muscular and pallial impressions, and 

 its apparent edentulous hinge, it reminds one of Solenomya. It differs, how- 

 ever from that genus, remarkably, in its short gibbous form, rather ventricose 

 beaks, and general physiognomy, as well as in wanting the internal ridge e: 

 tending downward from the beaks, and apparently the partly internal Uga- 



1870.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ment. It likewise differs from the existing species of Solenomya in having the 

 valves neatly closed all around, and the beak of its right valve curving under 

 that of the left. In this latter character, however, it agrees with the carbo- 

 niferous species of the West that have been referred to Solenomya, all of which 

 have the point of the right beak passing under that of the left, and Prof. 

 McCoy has noticed this character in British carboniferous species. These 

 carboniferous species, however, agree almost exactly in all their other known 

 characters with recent typical species of Solenomya, even to the general form 

 and the presence of an internal ridge under each beak, and differ as widely 

 from our shell in all respects, excepting in the one character of the slight 

 inequality of the beaks, as the recent species of Solenomya do. 



We are aware that Prof. King proposed to found a genus Janeia, for the 

 reception of the carboniferous and permian forms usually referred to Soleno- 

 mya, and afterwards abandoned it, after farther comparisons with recent 

 species. As he makes no allusion to the inequality of the beaks, it is proba- 

 ble he had no specimens of the fossil species with the two valves united. 

 From this character, and the greater excavation for the internal part of the 

 cartilage, under and extending a little in advance of the beaks, in the West- 

 ern carboniferous species referred to Solenomya, that we have had an oppor- 

 tunity to examine, we think it not improbable that the name Janeia may yet 

 have to be retained for the carboniferous and permian species, at least in a 

 subgeueric sense. Even in this case, however, it would still be necessary to 

 establish a new genus for our shell, in consequence of the differences already 

 noted, which separate it nearly as widely from the forms for which Janeia 

 were proposed as from the recent Solenomyie. 



It is proper to remark here, that some able conchologists, to whom we 

 showed specimens of the form under consideration, did not think it related 

 to Solenomya, as typified by the recent species, but more nearly allied to the 

 Anatinidse. As none of the numerous specimens of internal casts we have 

 had an opportunity to examine, however, showed any indications of a cavity 

 or process for the reception or attachment of an internal cartilage, as we see 

 in that family, and the pallial line has no traces of the sinus usually (though 

 not always) seen in the same, its relations to the Anatinidse seem to us 

 doubtful. 



Clinofistha radiata, var. levis. 



Edmondia ? radiala, Hall,(?) 1858. Iowa Geological Report, Vol. I, part 2, 



Palaeont., p. 716, pi. 29, fig. 3. 



Shell oval, approaching oblong, the height being from two-thirds to three- 

 fourths the length, moderately convex in young examples, and becoming ven- 

 tricose with age ; anterior side much longer and wider than the other, 

 regularly rounded in outline; posterior side very short, rather narrow below 

 the beaks, and vertically truncated; ventral margin most convex a little in 

 advance of the middle, thence round upward into the front, while behind the 

 middle, or nearly under the beaks, it is slightly contracted, or sinuous ; dorsal 

 outline subparallel to the base, the margins of the valves being erect anteri- 

 orly and rounding into the anterior margin; hinge line rather short ; beaks 

 rather ventricose, rising above the hinge line and placed about half way be- 

 tween the middle and the posterior end; posterior umbonal slopes often ren- 

 dered somewhat prominently rounded by a slight flattening of the valves 

 behind the beaks, near the truncated margin ; ligament lance-oval in form, 

 rather short, and placed immediately behind the beaks, exactly in the position 

 we would expect to see the lunule if the shorter side of the valves were the 

 anterior; surface with a polished appearance, and generally only showing fine 

 lines of growth, but in some examples also having obscure radiating marks 

 near the ventral margin, which are nearly always defined on internal casts. 



Length of a large specimen, 1 inch; height, 0-62 inch; convexity, 0-51 

 inch. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



A careful examination of the typical specimen (now before us) of Edrm ndiat 

 radiata, of the Iowa Report, cited above, has clearly satisfied us thai il has 

 the ligament on the short side, and certainly belongs to the genus we have 

 here described, and we can scarcely doubt that it is really the same species as 

 our type. As none of our numerous specimens, however, show tbe radiating 

 markings so distinctly as that described by Prof. Hall, we have concluded t<> 

 view them as belonging to a smooth variety, which we propose to designate 

 under the name Levis. 



Locality and position. Near base of Coal-measures, Seaville county, Illinois. 

 Prof. Hall's specimen came from the upper beds of the Coal-measures at 

 Grayville, Illinois. 



GASTEROPODA. 



Dentaliuji annclostriatum, M. and \Y. 



Shell very small, rather distinctly tapering and slightly arched ; aperture 

 and section circular ; surface ornamented by regular, distinct, annular costae, 

 which pass around a little obliquely and are separated by rounded furrows of 

 the same breadth as the costa3 themselves. 



Length of a specimen incomplete at both ends, 0-28 inch ; diam. at the 

 larger end, 0-06 inch ; do. at the smaller end, 0-0-1 inch. 



Of this delicate little shell we have seen but a single specimen, which is 

 imperfect at both ends. At a first glance, it might be mistaken for another 

 more common species, of near the same size, occurring at the same locality, 

 and which we are inclined to think is the D. Meekianum of Geinitz. On exam- 

 ining it under a magnifier, however, it can be at once distinguished by its 

 comparatively strong, regular costaj, instead of mere microscopic lines of 

 growth. 



It is with some doubt that we have referred this little shell to the genus 

 Dentalium, because its small size and comparatively strong, regular costae give 

 it much the appearance of the non-spiral part of the shell of a Citcum. It is 

 more arched, however, and more tapering than we generally see in the body 

 part of shells of that genus, which are likewise, we believe, unknown in any 

 of the Palaeozoic rocks. 



Locality and position. Shales over the Danville Coal, holding a position 

 about the horizon of the fifth Coal of the Illinois ; or, near the upper part of 

 the lower Coal-measures. 



Straparollds (Ecomphalus) pernodosus, M. and W. 



Shell attaining a rather large size, subdiscoidal, or with the spire nearly on 

 a plane with the upper outer edge of the body volution; umbilicus broad, 

 moderately deep, and showing all the inner turns ; volutions about five and a 

 half flattened-convex, and a little oblique on the broad periphery, but dis- 

 tinctly carinated near the outer side above (the carina being rugose), while a 

 little outside of the middle below, they are prominent and ornamented by a 

 row of moderately distinct nodes, of which about sixteen may be counted on 

 the last turn ; those on the last half of the outer volution becoming nearly 

 or quite obsolete toward the aperture. Upper side of each whorl flattened 

 and sloping distinctly inward from the carina to the suture ; lower side o 

 same sloping rapidly inward and slightly concave just within the prominent 

 nodose ridge, and then rounding rather abruptly into the umbilicus. Surface 

 marked by distinct lines, and at some places ridges, of growth ; on the upper 

 side of the whorls these lines pass obliquely outward and forward from the 

 suture to the carina, thence obliquely backward in crossing the periphery, 

 while in crossing the under side they curve a little backward 



Greatest breadth of a specimen not quite complete at the aperture, . 50 

 inches; height at the aperture, about 0-84 inch. 

 1870.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This species is evidently closely allied to E. nodosus, of Sowerby, from the 

 Mountain Limestone of England. It may be distinguished, however, by its 

 much less convex periphery, and by having its carina on the upper side of the 

 outer whorl, nearer the outer side, as well as more rugose from an apparent 

 effort to form irregular nodes. The true nodes around the prominent portion 

 of its under side are more numerous than in E. nodosus (which has ten instead 

 of fourteen to each whorl), and differ in being more irregular and nearly 

 obsolete on the last half of the outer whorl. 



Even if Montfort's name, Straparollus, must be adopted for this genus, we 

 think Sowerby's name, Euomphalus, should be retained in a subgeneric sense 

 for these planorbicular species with angular whorls, such as E. pentangulatw, 

 for which it was at first proposed. 



Locality and position. Alton, 111. Lower Coal-measures. 



Straparollus (Ecomphalus) subquadratus, M. and W. 



Shell attaining nearly a medium size, discoid or subplanorbicular, concave, 

 and showing all the whorls both above and below, though the concavity is 

 deeper below than above. Periphery nearly flat, rather broad, and generally 

 more or less oblique, with a distinct carina at the upper and lower edges, the 

 former of which is more acute than the other, and irregularly crenate, or sub- 

 nodose, and projecting nearly upward, while the lower one is a little rounded 

 and projects outward. Volutions five or six, not embracing, nor coiled ex- 

 actly in the same plane ; on the upper surface, each sloping, with a slight 

 concavity, distinctly inward from the marginal carina to the suture, while the 

 flattened outer side usually has an obscure longitudinal sulcus near the upper 

 and lower angles, the upper one being a little deeper than the other. On the 

 under side the whorls slope gently inward from the marginal angle, so as to 

 form a broad, depressed-subconical umbilicus. Surface marked with rather 

 strongly defined lines of growth, which, at places, become subimbncating, or 

 form little irregular ridges. In crossing the upper side of the whorls, these 

 lines start, at first, nearly at right angles out from the suture, but curve a 

 little backward as they approach the marginal angle ; and immediately after 

 crossing this angle, and passing downward upon the nearly vertically flattened 

 periphery, they are deflected a little forward, but soon after pass straight down 

 to, and over the lower marginal angle to the under side, where they extend 

 obliquely backward and inward, with a rather distinct curve, to the immediate 

 vicinity of the suture, and then curve a little forward. Aperture and sections 

 of interior of whorls subcircular, or transversely oval. 



Greatest breadth of a specimen with apparently about one-third of the outer 

 volution broken away, 1-25 inches ; height, 0-50 inch. When entire, this spe- 

 cimen was probably not less than 1-43 inches in breadth. 



From the foregoing description, it will be seen that this shell is nearly allied 

 to the common western Coal Measure species figured and described by Prof. 

 Hall, in his Jour. Geological Report, under the name Euomphalus rugosus (not 

 E. rugosus, Sowerby*). Indeed, it is so nearly like that species that we atone 

 time suspected that it might be only a gigantic and more ventricose variety of 

 the same. Yet on comparing our shell with an extensive series of good spe- 

 cimens of E. rugosus, Hall, it is found to be greatly larger than any known 

 authentic examples of that shell, its breadth being a little more than twice 

 and a half that of the usual mature examples of E. rugosus. Its umbilicus, 

 and the concavity of its upper side, are also proportionally deeper, particularly 

 the former, while the flattened outer side of its whorls is broader, and gener- 

 ally less oblique. Its lines of growth also differ in being rather distinctly de- 

 flected backward at the marginal angle of the upper side, so as to indicate an 

 obscure sinus of the margin of the lip at the termination of this angle, though 



* If Sowerby's species is really congeneric, the American form called E. rugosus by Prof. 

 Hall might be distinguished by the specific name subrugosus. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



there are no traces of a band, as in Pleurotomaria. This character would pro- 

 bably place the species in the group for which the name Schizostoma was pro- 

 posed by Bronn, but palaeontologists have generally regarded the type foi 

 which that name was proposed, as not being sufficiently distinct from Euom- 

 phalns to be retained as a separate genus. 



Associated with the above, a single specimen was found, of the same size, 

 and agreeing very closely with that from which the foregoing description was 

 drawn up, but differing in being proportionally wider, and not so oblique on 

 the periphery, which is also more convex in the middle. The angle of its 

 under side also differs in being a little farther in from the outer margin, and 

 directed downward, instead of outward, while its umbilicus is proportionally 

 deeper. This may be a distinct species, but without more specimens for com- 

 parison we do not feel willing to regard it as being entitled to a separate 

 name. 



These shells, including E. rugosus, Hall, and E. catilloides, Conrad (sp.), are 

 related to E. quadratus of McCoy, from the Mountain Limestone of Ireland, 

 though sufficiently distinct specifically. At one time we were inclined to think 

 that E. rugosus, Hall, and E. catilloides, Conrad, together with a few others, 

 should be separated from Euomphalus, under a distinct generic name ; but 

 after seeing the large species we have here described, which so closely connect 

 these little shells with such forms as E. pentangulaius and E. catillus, upon 

 which the genus was originally founded, we can no longer doubt that all of 

 these shells really belong to one genus. This series of intermediate forms 

 connecting the small, nearly planorbicular species mentioned above with the 

 typical forms of Euomphalus, shows clearly that none of the former belong to 

 the articulate genus Spirorbis, as has been thought by some, but that they are 

 really true mollusks. 



Locality and position. Upper Coal Measures, Montgomery County, Illinois. 

 Collected by Mr. G. C. Broadhead, of the Illinois Geological Survey. 



Subulites inplatus, M. and W. 



Shell very ventricose, subfusiform ; volutions about five and a half to six, 

 those of the spire moderately convex in the (external?) cast; last one very 

 large, ventricose, and composing much the larger part of the whole, produced 

 and contracted below so as apparently to terminate in a short canal ; aperture 

 narrow, rhombic and poiuted, or angular above and below; suture well de- 

 fined in the cast ; surface unknown. 



Height of a specimen with apparently about two whorls at the apex, and 

 portions of the lower extremity of the produced body whorl broken away, 1-85 

 inches; breadth of body volution, about 1-15 inches. 



It is barely possible that this may be a ventricose, fusiform Murchisonia, as 

 we only know it from rough casts, apparently of the exterior. As it shows 

 no traces, however, of any revolving band or line, and has much the general 

 physiognomy of Subulites,\e have concluded to refer it provisionally to that 

 group. 



Its most marked character is the large size and very ventricose form of its 

 body volution, in which it resembles some of the Carboniferous species of M- 

 crocheilus. It differs from these, however, in the produced and subcanaliculate 

 peculiarity of the lower part of its body whorl. 



Locality and position. Galena beds of the Lower Silurian : Carrol County, 



Illinois. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Genus NAUTILUS, Auct. 



Subgenus SOLENOCHILUS * M. and W. 



We propose the above name for a group of Nautili which we believe to be 



* <ra>x>tv. a channel; ^Ci\q^ hp- 



1870.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the same as Cryptoceras of D'Orbigny, published in 1850. This change of name 

 becomes necessary, however, because Dr. Barrande had used the name Crypto- 

 ceras for another widely distinct group of Cephalopoda in 1846. It is true he 

 has since changed the name of his genus to Ascoceras, for the reason that La- 

 treille had applied the name Cryptocerus to a genus of Hymenoptera in 1804. 

 But if Latreille's name Cryptocerus is not considered sufficiently distinct, on 

 account of its different termination, from Cryptoceras (which we should think 

 is the case), it would, for the same reason, of course, be equally necessary to 

 change the name of D'Orbigny's group. On the other hand, if we regard La- 

 treille's name as being distinct enough to permit D'Orbigny's name to stand 

 also, or if Latreille's genus is not a valid one, in either case Dr. Barrande's 

 original name Cryptoceras would have to be retained for his genus, and, as it 

 has priority of date, it would still become necessary to find another name for 

 the group described by D'Orbigny. 



The type of D'Orbigny's group was Nautilus dorsalis of Phillips, only known, 

 we believe, from a mere fragment, showing the siphuncle to be marginal, or 

 on the outer side of the curve, as in Ammonites.* In this country we already 

 know several Carboniferous species that agree with D'Orbigny's type in the 

 character or position of the siphuncle, and we find in all of these another re- 

 markable peculiarity of the lip on each side. That is, it is drawn so as to 

 form a kind of little canal, or spout-like channel, much as we see va.Argona.uta 

 gondola, Adams. A good example of one of these shells is figured and described 

 by Dr. White and Prof. St. John, under the name Nautilus (Cryptoceras) Sprin- 

 geri, in vol. i, p. 124, of the Transactions of the Chicago Academy of Sciences 

 for 1867 ; and this may be regarded as the type of the group. It also includes 

 our N. (Cryptoceras) Leidyi, N. (Crypt.) capaz, and the species described below, 

 with possibly our N. (Crypt.) Rockfordensis. 



The mere fact that these shells have the siphuncle marginal, as in Ammoni- 

 tes, would perhaps not alone be a sufficient reason for placing them in a sepa- 

 rate group from the typical Nautili, since the siphuncle occupies various po- 

 sitions in the different fossil species of the latter. But when we take into 

 consideration the additional fact that the marginal position of the siphuncle 

 in these shells is always accompanied by the peculiar character of the lip we 

 have described, it becomes of more importance. 



Nautilus (Solknochilus) collectus, M. and W. 



Shell thin, attaining a moderate size, slightly compressed or subglobose in 

 general form ; umbilicus rather small, but deep, perforated, and provided 

 with very abrupt walls, particularly near the aperture. Volutions about one 

 and a half, increasing rapidly in size, and a little wider transversely than their 

 dorso-ventral diameter ; moderately embracing, with a subquadrangular sec- 

 tion, the angles being rounded, and the lateral and outer or ventral surfaces 

 more or less flattened. Septa moderately concave, distant about one-fourth 

 the transverse diameter of the volutions at the point of measurement, and 

 showing a slight backward curve in crossing the sides and periphery ; aper- 

 ture large, and, as near as can be determined from the specimens, with a sub- 

 quadrangular or subcircular outline, more or less sinuous on the inner side 

 for the reception of the small inner turn ; siphuncle small. Surface smooth, 

 or only showing small lines of growth. 



Greatest diameter of a small specimen, with body chamber broken away, 

 1-70 inch ; transverse diameter of same, about 1-25 inch. 



As in other species of this group, the small siphuncle is so very nearly in 

 contact with the ventral, or outer side, that in casts with the shell removed 

 it often gives the appearance of a very narrow, deep lobe along the middle of 

 that side. It is easy to see, however, that this appearance is merely produced 



* M. Chenu figures on p. 72, vol. i, of his Manual of Conchology, under tho name Crypto- 

 ceras Bowerbahkit, Sowerby, a shell certainly not belonging to D'Orbigny's group as he un- 

 derstood it, but, if correctly figured, belonging to the Ammmitidx. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



by the breaking away of a thin part of the matrix between the uiphuncle and 

 the outer shell. None of our specimens are in a condition to show the mar- 

 gins of the lip, but some of them show very clearly the commenoemenl of the 

 protuberance, or pinching up of the margin on each side near the umbilicus 



evidently terminating at the aperture in the usual spout-like auricles. The 

 lines of growth also show the same, by their flexures on each side. 



Specifically this shell is probably most nearly allied to our N. (Solenoek 

 Leidyi, from the Keokuk division of the Lower Carboniferous, though it differs 

 in having more rapidly expanding and subquadrangular whorls, which are 

 also slightly embracing at the aperture, instead of being merely in contact. 

 Its volutions, however, are much less rapidly expanding than in 'our X. (& 

 capax, or in N. Springeri ot White and St. John, as well as different from both 

 in their subquadrangular form. 



Locality and position. New Providence, Indiana, from a limestone of the age 

 of the St. Louis division of the Lower Carboniferous. 



Subgenus TEMNOCHILUS, McCoy. 

 Nautilus (Temnochilus) latus, M. and W. 



Comp. N. nodocarinatus, M'Chesney, 1865. Illustrations Paleozoic Fossils, 

 pi. 3, fig. 6 (5 by error, in explanations of plate.) Not N. nodocarinitus of 

 same author in text of same paper (1860) p. 66. 



The only specimen of this fine species we have ever seen consists of about 

 half of one volution, which, being without septa, must belong to the part 

 composing the last or body chamber, originally occupied by the body of the 

 animal. Tt is broken at both ends, and measures around the curve of the 

 outer side, 8-50 inches, with, at the larger end, a dorso-ventral diameter of 

 2-10 inches, and a transverse diameter (including the nodes) of 3-60 inches. 

 The dorso-ventral diameter at the smaller end is about 1-60 inches, and the 

 transverse about 2-40 inches. A section of the body volution is transversely 

 subelliptical, with a tendency to an oblong outline ; the outer (often called 

 the dorsal) side of the whorl being very broad and flattened convex, and each 

 lateral margin, exclusive of the nodes, being rather narrowly rounded, or a 

 little flattened, while the inner side is a little concave. The broad flattened 

 outer side has two very obscure longitudinal ridges, with a distinctly flattened 

 space between. Along each (so-called) dorso-lateral margin there is a row 

 of prominent flattened nodes, arranged at intervals of about their own greater 

 (antero-posterior) diameter. About sixteen of these nodes occupied each 

 side of the outer or last volution. The inner side of the whorl rounds regu- 

 larly into the umbilicus, which appears to be wider than the dorso-ventral 

 diameter of the volution at the aperture. The surface is without longitudinal 

 lines, but the strhe of growth are moderately distinct, especially on the broad 

 flattened outer side, where they make a deep backward curve in crossing, so 

 as to indicate the presence of a very deep sinus in the lip on that side of the 

 aperture of the shell. 



In the specimen described, the substance of the shell is thin, and scarcely 

 mineralized, though it retains no pearly lustre. 



This species resembles very closely the form figured by Prof. McChesney in 

 the memoir cited at the head of the foregoing description, and referred by 

 him (by mistake) in the explanations of his plates, to his N. nodocarinatus. 



Our shell differs, however, in not having so many nodes, as well as in hav- 

 ing a proportionally wider umbilicus, and particularly in having the sides of 

 itswhorls rounding regularly into the umbilicus, instead of being subcarinate 

 around its margins. 



Locality and position. Carbon Cliff Mines, Rock Island. County, Illinois. 

 Lower Coal-Measures. 



1870.] 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Nautilus (Temnochilus) Winslowi, M. and W. 



Shell attaining a moderatel) r large size, subdiscoidal ; periphery broad and 

 nearly flat, the middle third being rather distinctly flattened, while on each 

 side of this there is a very slight slope outward to the lateral margins. Um- 

 bilicus broad, moderately deep, and showing nearly the full breadth of each 

 inner volution on each side. Volutions apparently about four and a half, 

 with transverse diametar nearly one-third greater than the dorso-ventral ; 

 each ornamented around the lateral margins of the broad periphery by about 

 sixteen very prominent, rounded nodes, which project obliquely outward, at 

 an angle about intermediate between the general plane of the shell and that 

 of the broad periphery, those on opposite sides being alternately arranged ; 

 from these rows of nodes the sides slope abruptly inward, with a moderate 

 convexity, to their inner margins within the umbilicus. Surface marked by 

 rather well defined lines of growth, which curve gently backward in crossing 

 the sides of the whorls from the inner margin, and make a stronger backward 

 curve in crossing the periphery, so as to indicate the presence of a deep 

 rounded sinus in the outer margin of the lip. (Siphuncle and septa unknown.) 



Greatest breadth of a specimen with a part of the outer volution broken 

 away, 4-60 inches ; transverse diameter of outer turn, measuring across the 

 periphery without including the nodes, 2-46 inches ; do. including the nodes, 

 2-93 inches ; dorso-ventral diameter of the outer volution, 1-66 inches. 



This species i3 evidently closely allied to the last, in form and general ap- 

 pearance, but differs in having its volutions proportionally narrower, measur- 

 ing at right angles to the plane of the shell. Its most marked difference, 

 however, consists in the form of its nodes, which are round, instead of being 

 distinctly compressed. It seems to be also related to If. tuberculatus of Sow- 

 erby, but differs from the published figures of that species in having its peri- 

 phery proportionally broader, and distinctly more flattened ; while its nodes 

 are placed nearer the outer margin of the whorls, as well as more prominent. 

 From N. Occidentalis, Swallow, (= N. quadrangularis, McChesney), it will be 

 readily distinguished by the greater transverse diameter of its whorls, which 

 are also without the flattened sides of that species, and differ in wanting the 

 two mesial rows of nodes on the periphery. 



This specific name of this fine Nautilus is given in honor of Dr. J. C. Wins- 

 low, of Danville, Illinois, to whom we are indebted for the use of the specimen 

 from which the description was drawn up. 



Locality and position. Danville, Illinois, from the shale over the fifth bed of 

 coal, of the corrected Illinois section ; being near the horizon of the upper 

 part of the Lower Coal-Measures. 



Nautilus (Temnochilus) Coxanus, M. and W. 



Shell rather small, subdiscoidal, broadly rounded, or depressed convex 

 over the periphery; umbilicus wide, rather deep, perforated, and showing 

 more than three-fourths of the dorso-ventral diameter of each inner turn. 

 Volutions about two and a half to three, increasing gradually in size, wider 

 transversely than dorso-ventrally, very slightly concave along the dorsal or 

 inner side for the reception of the periphery of each succeeding turn within, 

 more or less narrowly rounded (subangular in some small specimens) and 

 ornamented by about fifteen small nodes around the middle of each side, 

 from which point the inner side rounds very abruptly into the umbilicus. 

 Septa separated, on the outer or ventral side, by space about one-fifth or one- 

 sixth the transverse diameter of the volutions at the point of measurement ; 

 arching very slightly backward in crossing the periphery. Body chamber 

 composing about half of the outer volution. Siphuncle small, and situated 

 subcentrally, or somewhat nearer the outer side. Surface ornamented with 

 distinct, regular, longitudinal, raised lines, or small costa j , narrower than the 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .", 1 



rounded furrows between ; those along the middle of the ventral or outer 

 being smaller and more crowded than those toward the lateral regions ; cro 

 ing these are numerous very fine, crowded stria? of growth, which carve 

 strongly backward in passing over the periphery, parallel to the margin of 

 the very profound sinus in the lip on the ventral side.* Aperture trans- 

 versely oval. 



Greatest diameter of a mature specimen, 2-23 inches; thickness, or trans- 

 verse diameter, about one inch; dorso-ventral diameter of last turn near 

 aperture, 0-86 inch. 



Among the specimens before us there seem to be two varieties, which may 

 possibly prove to be specifically distinct. One of these, which we regard as 

 the_ typical form of the species, has the periphery very depressed-convex, 

 while in the other, this part is distinctly more convex or rounded. As they 

 agree, however, apparently almost exactly in all other characters, and both 

 forms vary somewhat in the convexity of the periphery, we are inclined to 

 view this as merely a sexual difference. In the more convex forms the lateral 

 nodes seem to be generally a little more inclined to become slightly elongated 

 in the transverse direction of the whorls, though this character appears not 

 to be entirely constant. In both forms the longitudinal or revolving surface 

 ridges and furrows become nearly or quite obsolete, toward the aperture, on 

 the outer volution. 



Internal casts of this species seem to be almost exactly like specimens 

 figured by European authorities under the name N. tubrculatus, Sowerby. As 

 that species, however, attains a much larger size, and has, according to Prof. 

 McCoy's description, a very large siphuncle, while none of the figures or de- 

 scriptions of it we have seen either show or mention the distinct longitudinal, 

 or revolving costae, so well defined on the surface of our species, we can 

 entertain no doubt in regard to its being clearly distinct. It is true the 

 figures of iV. tuberculatus alluded to all represent only internal casts, while 

 the longitudinal markings mentioned on our shell are not seen on internal 

 casts ; but it is scarcely possible that such markings would never have been 

 observed, as impressions in the matrix, if not otherwise, had they existed in 

 Sowerby's species. 



This species is named in honor of Prof. E. T. Cox, State Geologist of In- 

 diana. 



Locality and position. Three miles west of New Providence, Indiana ; from 

 a light gray, brittle limestone, of the age of the St. Louis division of the Lower 

 Carboniferous. 



Lituites Graftonensis, M. and W. 



Shell rather small, with isolated portion discoid, planorbicular, and slightly 

 concave on both sides ; volutions four or more, slightly embracing, increas- 

 ing very gradually in size, with transverse section nearly or quite circular, 

 excepting the slight concavity on the inner side. Surface ornamented 

 numerous distinct, very regularly arranged costa?, which cross the sides of 

 the volutions very obliquely backward from the inner side, curving strongly 

 backward as they approach the periphery, and after crossing the middle of 

 the same, again deflected forward as on the opposite side, thus indicating a 

 profound sinus in the outer side of the lip ; the sinus being very narrow, but 

 not exactly angular at its termination, and widening rapidly forward ; fine, 

 somewhat imbricating stria? of growth also run parallel to the costae. Septa 

 apparently moderately distant and running nearly straight across the sides. 

 Siphuncle and free part of the body chamber unknown. 



Greatest diameter of the coiled part, 2-10 inches ; transverse diameter, 0-54 

 inch ; dorso-ventral diameter of outer turn, about 0-52 inch. 



This would be the dorsal side according to the nomenclature in most general use 



1870.J 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



As we have not seen the siphuncle, or the free part of the body chamber of 

 this species it may, possibly, not be a true Lituite. Still, as there is not the 

 slightest appearance of any obliquity of the volutions, as in the genus Trocho- 

 ceras, we have scarcely any doubt in regard to its being a true Lituite. Com- 

 pared with Lituites Marshii, of Hall, (20th Ann. Rep. Regents Univ., N. Y., pi. 

 16, figs. 6 and 7,) from the same horizon, at Kankakee, in this State, our 

 species will be at once seen to differ in having its volutions more compactly 

 coiled together, much less rapidly increasing in size, and ornamented with 

 smaller and much more closely arranged costae. Its costae also make a stronger 

 or deeper backward curve in crossing the periphery, which is rounded instead 

 of being flattened, as in the Marshii. In general appearance it is more like 

 L. (Trocholitcs) ammonius, of Conrad, from the Lower Silurian, though its 

 costre are much more oblique, and differ in being separated by rounded fur- 

 rows quite as wide as the costae themselves ; while its surface shows no traces 

 of the finer sculpturiug seen on that shell. 



Locality and position. Grafton, Illinois ; from a very light drab magnesian 

 limestone of the age of the New York Niagara group. Upper Silurian. 



CRUSTACEA. 



Phillipsia tcbekculata, M. and W. 



Attaining a large size. Head and thorax unknown. Pygidium semielliptic, 

 the length being very nearly four-fifths the breadth, very convex ; posterior 

 margin obtusely rounded ; lateral margins diverging rapidly forward, with 

 convex outlines. Axial lobe well defined, obtuse, and rather promiaeut behind, 

 and gradually widening forward, with nearly straight sides ; rather distinctly 

 more elevated than the lateral lobes, which it nearly equals in breadth at the 

 anterior end, as seen in a direct view from above, but one-fourth narrower 

 than the latter, measuring over the curve of each ; showing sixteen or seven- 

 teen straight, well defined segment, each of which is provided with six small 

 tubercles, arranged so as to form six rows. Lateral lobes with about fourteen 

 segments each, the very short posterior ones being nearly on a line with the 

 axial lobe, while the others grow gradually more transverse anteriorly, so 

 as to show only a moderate obliquity toward the front ; all extending down 

 so as to leave only a very narrow, undefined, smooth marginal space, and 

 each ornamented by from two or three to about twelve tubercles, the number 

 increasing regularly with the length of the segments toward the anterior. 

 Surface oetween the segments and tubercles smooth. 



Length of pygidium, 0-95 inch ; breadth, 1 45 inches; convexity, 0-40 inch. 



This fine species resembles P. ornatus, Portlock, perhaps more nearly than 

 any other, but it attains a larger size, and its pygidium is more broadly rounded 

 behind, with its mesial lobe less rapidly tapering posteriorly; while the rows 

 of tubercles on the segments of its lateral lobes are distinctly more numerous. 

 In general outline, its pygidium more nearly resembles a form figured by 

 Prof, de Koninck, under the name Phillipsia gemmulifera, Phillips, (Aniniaux 

 Foss., pi. liii, fig. 4), though its axial lobe is distinctly narrower, while its 

 lateral lobes are merely provided with tubercles, along the segments, instead 

 of short spines. 



Locality and position. Kinderhook, Pike County, 111. Burlington division 

 of the Lower Carboniferous. 



Phillipsia (Griffithides) bufo, M. and W. 



Entire outline elliptical, the breadth being to the length as 75 to 130. Ce- 

 phalic shield forming more than a semi-circle, round in front and nearly 

 straight behind ; posterior lateral angles terminating in short, abruptly pointed 

 spines extending back to the anterior edge of the third thoracic segment. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Glabella rather depressed convex, wide anteriorly and narrowing posteriorly 

 n. t \ , fuiT0 , w '- JU f in froflt of vrhich, and connected with the palpebral 

 lobes on each side it has a single small, obscure lateral lobe; neck furrow 

 broad and well denned both across the glabella and across the posterior mar- 

 gmsof the cheeks; neck segment rather wide, depressed below the level of 

 the highest part of the glabella in front of it. Eyes of moderate size, reniform 

 nearly as prominent as the glabella, placed but little in front of the continual 

 tion of the neck furrow across the cheeks, apparently smooth, but showing 



when tne outer crust is removed, numerous very minute lenses be ith! 



Cheek sloping off rather abruptly from the eyes to the thickened margin 

 which does not continue around the front of the glabella; facial sutures ra- 

 ting the anterior margin in front of the eyes before, and a little outside of 

 them behind. 



Thorax nearly twice as wide as long, distinctly trilobate; mesial lobe but 

 moderately prominent, nearly twice as wide as either of the lateral lobes its 

 eight segments merely rounded and without furrows. Lateral lobes narrow 

 pleura? curving moderately downwards at less than half their length out from 

 the axial lobe, but not distinctly geniculated, each provided with a furrow ex- 

 tending nearly half-way out. Pygidium approaching semi-circular, with the 

 anterior lateral angles obliquely truncated ; mesial lobe but slightly wider an- 

 teriorly than the lateral ; segments about eleven ; lateral lobes with ei'ht or 

 nine segments. 



Surface finely granular, the granules being most distinct on the glabella, 

 and the segments of the mesial lobe of the thorax. 



This species will be at once distinguished from our P. PorllocJcii, from the 

 same horizon, by its much broader and less ventricose glabella, and the pecu- 

 liar tuberculiform eyes of that species, as well as by the broader and less pro- 

 minent mesial lobe of the pygidium, in the form under consideration. 



Locality and position. Crawfordsville, Indiana. Keokuk division of the 

 lower Carboniferous series. 



Asaphus (Isotelds) vigilans, M. and W. 



Body small, elliptic in general form, and moderately convex. Head rather 

 more than half as long as wide, approaching a subcrescentic outline, with the 

 posterior lateral angles abruptly rounded or subangular; anterior margin ap- 

 parently somewhat narrowly rounded ; posterior outline broadly and distinctly 

 concave, but rather straight along the middle, without any traces of marginal 

 or occipital furrows. Glabella not rising above the general convexity of the 

 head, and entirely undefined by any traces of dorsal furrows. Eyes situated 

 about their own antero-posterior diameter in advance of the posterior margin, 

 and apparently about half way between the latter and the front, rather Widely 

 separated from each other, and very prominent, nearly round, and truncato- 

 sub-conic in form ; visual surface elevated almost entirely above the general 

 convexity, and curved around so as to form about three-fourths of a circle, 

 presenting a smooth surface ; palpebral lobes as elevated as the eyes, and much 

 contracted, or merely connected with the glabella on the inner side by a 

 narrow neck. Facial sutures extending obliquely outward and backward from 

 the eyes behind, so as to intersect the posterior margin about half-way be- 

 tween a line drawn longitudinally through the middle of each eye, and the 

 posterior lateral margins of the cheeks; and in front, at first curving slightly 

 outward a little in advance of each eye, beyond which point they converge 

 forward so as apparently to intersect the front margin in such a manner as to 

 leave a rather narrow anterior edge to the glabella.* 



Thorax longer than the head or pygidium, as measured over the curve of a 



* As the specimen is imperfect here, it is possible these sutures may not reach the an- 

 terior margin in front. 



1870.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



rolled-up specimen, showing scarcely any traces of trilobation, and composed 

 of eigbt segments. Mesial lobe, as indicated by very faint impression on each 

 side of the body segment, very wide and depressed, with segments nearly flat. 

 Lateral lobes very narrow, sloping off regularly from the mesial one on each 

 side ; pleura? without furrows, and with the exposed surfaces seen in a rolled- 

 up specimen, narrowing off laterally very rapidly, with a strong backward 

 curve; all more or less angular at the extremity, the posterior ones being 

 rather pointed ; lapping surfaces apparently wide. 



Pygidium subtrigonal and of near the same size as the head, entirely without 

 any indications of trilobation or segments. 



Whole surface smooth, excepting a minute pitting, most distinct on the 

 movable cheeks. 



Length (measuring over the curve of the specimen as rolled together), 2-75 

 inches; breadth, 1-30 inch; length of head at the middle, about 0-75 inch; 

 breadth between the eyes, 0-47 inch ; height of eyes on the outer side, 0-20 

 inch. Breadth of axial lobe of thorax, 085 inch ; antero-posterior diameter 

 of each of the first four or five segmeuts of same near middle, 0-15 inch. 



This species seems not to be nearly related to any of the described forms 

 with which we are acquainted. Its most marked characters are the promi- 

 nence of its eyes, and the almost entire absence of any traces of trilobation in 

 its thorax and pygidium, as well as the great breadth of the mesial lobe of the 

 same, as indicated by a very obscure depression, and a minute projection on 

 the anterior margin of each thoracic segment, on a line nearly behind the outer 

 edge of each eye. These little projections do not extend upward, but forward, 

 and fit into corresponding notches in the posterior margin of each succeeding 

 segment in front. As the anterior margin of its head and the posterior edge 

 of its pygidium are in the specimens more or less imperfect, we cannot deter- 

 mine exactly their outlines. 



In some respects this species resembles young individuals of Isotelus megistos, 

 of Lock, though it differs in not having its cheeks produced into pointed ter- 

 minations behind, while its eyes are more prominent and situated farther for- 

 ward, and the mesial lobes of its thorax much less defined and distinctly 

 wider. Its pleura? also differ in being angular, or a little pointed, instead of 

 rounded at the ends. 



Locality and position. Carrol County and Osage County, Illinois. Cincin- 

 nati group of the Lower Silurian. 



Ill^nus (Bumastds) Graftonensis, M. and W. 



Attaining a rather large size. Head (as determined from internal cast) 

 transversely subelliptic, as seen from above, when placed with the under side 

 on a horizontal plane, its breadth being to its length very nearly as 50 to 30 ; 

 moderately convex, the height being rather distinctly less than half the 

 breadth, and the most prominent part a little behind the middle, while the 

 curve over the middle, from its posterior to its anterior margin, forms about a 

 quarter of a circle. Anterior margin, as seen from above, presenting a nearly 

 transversely semi-elliptic curve, and a subrectangular outline, as seen in a 

 side view ; lateral margins rather narrowly and regularly rounded in outline, 

 into the posterior side. Axial furrows distinct, converging forward to a point 

 nearly opposite the middle of each eye, where they terminate in little flattened 

 oval impressions. Eyes large, forming nearly semi-circular curves, with their 

 posterior ends as near the posterior as to the lateral margins of the head ; 

 each with a broad, very deep, rounded furrow around beneath its outer side, 

 so as to form a kind of obtuse shoulder below, from which the cheeks dropoff 

 nearly vertically, with a slight convexity of outline, to the inferior margins ; 

 palpebral lobes less elevated than the middle of the glabella, and sloping a 

 little outward, with an even convexity over their whole surface; visual surface 

 forming rather narrow convex bands, and showing (in the internal cast) under 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



a magnifier numerous very minute reticulations. Facial sutures catting the 

 anterior margin distinctly within a line drawn antero-posteriorly through tin- 

 inner ends of each eye, and intersecting the posterior margin nearly on a line 

 with the middle of each eye. Rostral shield flat, with a subfusiform outline 

 and obtuse lateral extremities; just three times as wide as its antero-posterior 

 diameter. Surface of the internal cast of the whole upper part ol the head 

 without lines or furrows, but rather distinct transverse furrows are seen on 

 the rostral shield. (Body and other parts unknown.) 



Length of head, about 1 20 inches; breadth of do., 2-47 inches; height or 

 convexity, 1-05 inch. Length of eyes, 055 inch; height of visual surface of 

 same, 0-10 inch ; distance between the eyes at posterior and anterior ends, 165 

 inch. 



This fine species is perhaps most nearly allied to the common and widely 

 distributed /. Earriensis of Murchison. It may be readily distinguished, how- 

 ever, by several important differences in the head, which is the only part yet 

 known to us. In the first place, its head is much wider in proportion to its 

 length, and has its lateral margins, as seen from above, much more narrowly 

 and regularly rounded in outline, so that the cheeks do not project any farther 

 out from the eyes posteriorly than laterally, the outline of the lateral margins 

 having almost exactly the same curve as the eyes themselves. Its rostral 

 shield also has a very different form from that of Murchison's species, being 

 narrower in its antero-posterior diameter, and distinctly obtuse, instead of 

 pointed, at the lateral extremities. Our species likewise shows no traces of 

 the furrows on the cast of the upper side of the head, so strongly marked in /. 

 Barriensis. 



It is still more widely removed from /. inxignis of Hall ; and we know of do 

 described species having the head so nearly elliptic in outline (transversely) 

 as seen from above, excepting possibly /. Salteri of Barrande, which, however, 

 differs widely in other characters, belonging, as it does, to the small-eyed 

 section of the genus. 



Locality and position. Grafton, Illinois, from the Niagara division of the 

 Upper Silurian. 



DlTHYROCARIS CARBONARIU S, M. and W. 



We only know this fossil from a specimen showing the caudal appendage?, 

 that is, the telson and stylets.* These are lanceolate in general outline, and 

 rather flattened. The telson seems to be a little shorter than the stylets, and 

 more rapidly tapering toward the extremity. Below it is flat, and has a faint, 

 undefined, obtuse longitudinal ridge along the middle, with on each side an 

 equally undefined, shallow sulcus between this and the lateral margins, which 

 are sharp. On its upper side there is a well defined mesial carina, with a 

 slio-htly concave slope on each side to the lateral margins, thus presenting 

 mueh the form of a broad bayonet. The stylets have each, on the flattened 

 under side, about six or seven small longitudinal ridges, and on the upper side 

 a distinct longitudinal mesial carina, between which and the lateral margins 

 there is on each side a smooth rounded concavity or broad furrow; along eacb 

 lateral margin there are two closely approximated carinas, oae above, and one 

 below with a narrow rounded sulcus between. 



Len-th of telson, about 0-75 inch; breadth of do., 012 inch ; length of sty- 

 lets, about 0-80 inch ; breadth of same near the articulating end .0-1 2 inch 



This species will be readily distinguished from D. Scoulen of McCoy, bj its 

 proportionally broader and more lanceolate stylets and telson, the latter of 

 which is also smooth instead of being marked by oblique divancat.ng stria, - 



and not the whole of that segment. 



1870.] 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in the Scouleri. Its stylets are also flattened and carinated, instead of being 

 rounded. From Portlock's C. Colei it will be distinguished by having the 

 carina? of its stylets and telson smooth, instead of crenate. 



So far as we are informed, this is the first species of this genus found in 

 America. It is another decidedly Carboniferous genus, found in our Coal 

 Measures, directly associated with numerous fossils that occur in the beds on 

 the Missouri, in Nebraska, that have been wrongly referred by some authors 

 to the Permian (Dyas). 



Locality and position. Near the middle of the Coal Measures at Danville, 

 Illiuois, associated with numerous Upper Coal Measure species. 



Descriptions of FOSSILS collected by the TJ. S. Geological Survey under 

 the charge of Clerence King, Esq. 



BY F. B. MEEK. 



Washington City, March 21st, 1870. 

 Pkof. Joseph Leidt. 



Dear Sir, I send herewith, to be presented for publication in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy, descriptions of a few of the fossils brought in by the United States Geological 

 Survey under the direction of Clerence King, Esq. You will please state, in presenting 

 the paper, that the Trilobites described in it from Eastern Nevada, are decidedly Primor- 

 dial types, and, so far as I know, the first fossils of that age yet brought in from any loca- 

 lity west of the Black Hills. Mr. King's collections also establish the fact that the rich 

 silver mines of the White Pine district occur in Devonian rocks, though the Carbonife- 

 rous is also well developed there. The Devonian beds of that district yet known by their 

 fossils, seem mainly to belong to the upper part of the system. Mr, King, however, has a 

 few fossils from Pinon Station, Central Nevada, that appear to belong to the horizon of 

 the Upper Helderberg limestone of the New York series. 



The Tertiary fossils described in this paper, from the region of Hot Spring Mountains, 

 Idaho, came from an extensive and interesting fresh-water Lacustrine deposit, and are all 

 distinct specifically, and some generically, from all the other Tertiary fossils yet brought 

 from the far west. Two of the species belong to the existing California genus Carinifex, 

 or some closely allied group, while another beautifully sculptured species was thought, 

 by Mr. Tryon, to whom I sent a specimen of it, to be possibly a true Melania, and allied to 

 existing Asiatic forms. 



It is an interesting fact, that among all of our fresh-water Tertiary shells from this dis- 

 tant internal part of the Continent, neither the beaks of the bivalves, nor the apices of the 

 spire in the univalves, is ever in the slightest degree eroded; even the most delicate 

 markings on these parts being perfectly preserved, if not broken by some accident. From 

 this fact it may be inferred that the waters of the lakes and streams of this region, dur- 

 ing the Tertiary epoch, were more or less alkaline, as is the case with many of those 

 there at the present day. 



These descriptions, as well as others that I expect to send you soon, are merely prelim- 

 inary and will be re-written, and presented with full illustrations, now in course of prepa- 

 ration, in Mr. King's report of his survey. 



Very respectfully yours, 



F. B. MEEK. 



Tertiary Species. 



Sphjerium rugosum, Meek. 



Shell of medium size, rather gibbous, moderately thick, quadrato-suborbic- 

 ular in outline, the length being a little greater than the height; greatest con- 

 vexity slightly above the middle; anterior margin more or less regularly 

 rounded; base semielliptic in outline; posterior margin generally a little 

 wider than the anterior, and faintly subtruncate with an anterior slope; dor- 

 sal outline rounding into the anterior and posterior margins, but more regu- 

 larly into the former. Beaks not eroded, nearly central, rather prominent and 

 incurved, but not oblique. Surface ornament-d by sharply defined, often ele- 

 vated, concentric striae, separated by rounded furrows, in which very minute 

 lines of growth may be seen under a magnifier; the elevated concentric striae 

 becoming more regular, coarser, more distantly separated, and more promi- 

 nent on the umbones. Cordinal margin and lateral teeth comparatively 

 stout, 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Length of largest specimen, 0-34 inch; height, 0-30 inch; convexity, 28 

 inch. 



The most marked characteristics of this species, are its quadrato-suborbic- 

 ular, rather gibbous form, very nearly central beaks, and particularly its 

 sharply elevated concentric striae, growing stronger, more prominent" and 

 more distantly separated on the umbones, until near the points of the same 

 they often assume the character of sharp, raised plications. In some of the 

 smaller specimens, these raised, rather distantly separated, stronger strue, ex- 

 tend over nearly the whole surface; while in others they pass gradually into 

 mere irregular lines of growth, on most of the surface, occasionally separated 

 by wider furrows. 



In form this species is very similar to the existing S. Vermontanum, of Prime, 

 with which it also agrees nearly in size. It is more regularly rounded in 

 front, however, and has stouter lateral teeth ; while its concentric raised 

 atrias and sulcations are generally larger and grow more distinct on the um- 

 bones than below, instead of the reverse. In this latter character of marking 

 it agrees more nearly with S. aureum, Prime, from which, however, it differs 

 entirely in form. 



Locality and position. Hot Spring Mountains, at Fossil Hill, Idaho Terri- 

 tory. 



Sph.eriom? Idahoense, Meek. 



Shell attaining a very large size, moderately convex, rather thick in propor- 

 tion to size ; orbicular-subovate in outline, being wider in front than posteri- 

 orly ; anterior margin regularly rounded ; base semioval in outline ; posterior 

 margin somewhat narrowly rounded below and sloping forward above ; dorsal 

 margin short. Beaks placed in advance of the middle, a little compressed 

 and directed obliquely forward and inward. Surface marked by concentric 

 6tria; and furrows. Later teeth stout. 



Length, Q'98 inch ; height, about 92 inch ; convexity, about 0-54 inch. 



The specimens of this shell are not in a very good state of preservation, 

 being, with oue exception, internal casts, and this one only retains a part of 

 the shell. They certainly differ, however, from the last not only in their much 

 larger size, but in being less nearly equilateral, more produced, and rather 

 more narrowly rounded posteriorly, as well as proportionally less convex. 

 The internal casts have the umboual region, from a little above the middle 

 of the valves, compressed. Some of these casts show a few rather distinct, 

 broad, irregular concentric undulations, that were doubtless more strongly- 

 defined on the exterior of the valves. 



None of the specimens of this shell show the hinge very clearly, but from 

 its large size and thickness I was at first inclined to believe it a Cyrena or a 

 Corbicula. Impressions in the matrix, however, show that its lateral teeth are 

 not striated, nor of the form seen in the latter genus. Possibly, I should call 

 it Cyrena Idahoemis. As its pallial line is certainly simple, however, and not 

 sinuous, as in all the American living species, and, so far as known, in all the 

 fossil Cyrenas and Corbiculas of this continent, I have concluded to place it 

 provisionally in the genus Sphoerium, until better specimens can be obtained 

 for study. 



Locality and position. Same as last, and from same formation at Castle 

 Creek, Idaho. 



Ancylus cndulatus, Meek. 



Shell thin, attaining a very large size, elliptic-oval in outline, being some- 

 times slightly widest a little in advance of the middle; apex much elevated, 

 pointed, curved backward and placed about half-way between the middle and 

 the posterior margin ; posterior slope concave ; lateral slopes nearly straight ; 

 anterior slope distinctly convex. Surface marked with fine, rather obscure 



1870.] 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



lines of growth, and strong, comparatively large concentric undulations, most 

 distinct and regular on the anterior slope, where there are sometimes verj 

 obscure traces of about three radiating ridges. 



Length of the largest specimea seen, 0-67 inch ; breadth of do., 0-54 inch ; 

 height, 0-35 inch. 



The specimens show some variation in their proportions, as well as in the 

 regularity and distinctness of the undulations, the largest individual from 

 which the above measurements were taken being proportionally a little wider 

 and more elevated than some of the smaller ones, while its undulations are 

 less distinctly and regularly defined. As there are various gradations, how- 

 ever, in these characters, I am at present inclined to regard them as mere in- 

 dividual modifications of one species. 



Owing to the thinness of the shell, the undulations are often quite well de- 

 fined on internal casts, particularly along the anterior slope. 



The only N. American recent species, with which I am acquainted, that ap- 

 proaches this in size, is the A. Neioberryi, described by Dr. Lea, from Califor- 

 nia. From this the species under consideration differs in having its apex 

 nearer the posterior, and much more pointed and curved backward. The 

 undulations of its anterior slopes also give the shell quite a different appear- 

 ance. 



Locality and position. Fossil Hill, Hot Spring Mountains, Idaho Territory. 



Melania (Goniobasis?) scdlptilis, Meek. 



Shell of medium size, conoid-subovate ; spire more or less elongate-coni- 

 cal, with convex slopes, the apical angle being greater in the young than in 

 the adult, not eroded at the apex; volutions six to seven, rather distinctly 

 convex; suture strongly channeled ; aperture ovate, a little oblique, rather 

 narrowly rounded below; lip sharp, most prominent below the middle, and 

 slightly sinuous at the lower inner side. Surface elegantly ornamented by 

 numerous very regularly disposed, slightly flexuous or sigmoid vertical costae, 

 which are crossed by equally distinct and regular spiral ridges, about four of 

 which may be counted on each volution of the spire (excepting those near 

 the apex, which are smooth), and eight to ten on the last turn, on the under 

 half of which they are most strongly defined; minute lines of growth may 

 also be seen by the aid of a magnifier; costie slightly nodulous at the points 

 where they are crossed by the little revolving ridges. 



Length, 0-63 inch; breadth, 0-33 in. 



This is a neat species, remarkable for its sharply defined and very regular 

 cancellated sculpturing. The vertical costae are equally well defined on all 

 the volutions excepting those near the apex and on the under side of the last 

 one, while the revolving lines or ridges become a little more distinct on the 

 lower part of the body turn. Although there are nearly always four of these 

 revolving ridges on the volutions above the last one, in a few examples as 

 many as six may be counted on these turns, but this is due to the intercala- 

 tion of a smaller one between two of the others, and the exposure of another 

 above the suture, that is usually hidden beneath it by each succeeding turn. 



Locality and position. Hot Spring Mountains, Idaho. 



Melania (Goniobasis) sdbscclptilis, Meek. 



Shell apparently not attaining a medium size ; spire conical with convex 

 slopes ; apex pointed, not eroded ; volutions about seven and a half, flattened 

 convex; suture chanueled ; aperture ovate, slightly oblique, rather abruptly 

 rounded below ; margin of lip most prominent below the middle, and faintly 

 sinuous on the lower inner side. Surface ornamented with small, regular, 

 slightly sigmoid, vertical costae, with an obscure revolving ridge just below, 

 and a slight angle above, the suture, to which prominences the costae impart 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



a somewhat crenated appearance; lower half of last turn marked with a few 

 distinct revolving raised lines. 



Length, 0-43 inch; breadth, 0-19 inch; length of aperture, Oil inch; 

 breadth of do., 0-10 inch. 



, This species may be at once distinguished from the last by its less convea 

 whorls, and the absence of revolving ridges or lines, excepting on the lower 

 part of the body volution, and the one just below and above the suture. As 

 in the last, its apical whorls are smooth. The only good specimen of it seen 

 is considerably smaller than the adult size of the last described species. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Carinifex Binneyi, Meek. 

 Shell attaining a large size, depressed subglobose in form ; spire scarcely 

 rising above the body whorl; umbilicus large, but rapidly contracting within. 

 Volutions about three and a half, increasing very rapidly in size ; those of the 

 spire a little convex, last one forming more than nine-tenths the entire bulk 

 of the shell, widest above, and produced below so as to form a prominent 

 ridge or subangular margin around the widely excavated umbilical region ; 

 all without revolving carina?. Aperture large, obovate, being widest above 

 and narrowed abrubtly to a subangular termination below. Lip remarkably 

 oblique, apparently reflexed and strongly produced forward above. Surface 

 marked with extremely oblique lines of growth, which sometimes form little 

 regular costne. 



Height, 0-59 inch; breadth, 1 inch; height of aperture, about 0-50 inch ; 

 breadth of do., 0*54 inch. 



This species differs too widely in nearly all of its characters to require any 

 comparison with C. Newberryi, the typical and only known living species, 

 which it also exceeds in size. 



All of the specimens of this species in the collection are incrusted by a 

 laminated, smooth calcareous deposit, that has to be removed before the sur- 

 face marking can be seen. This is continuous over the suture, and covers all 

 the volutions of the spire. At first I was inclined to think this might have 

 been secreted by the mantle of the animal enveloping the whole shell; but 

 farther examinations have led me to think it more probably merely an 

 inorganic incrustation, precipitated over the surface after the death of the 

 animal. Named in honor of W. G. Binney, Esq. 



Locality and position. Fossil Hill, Hotspring Mountains, Idaho Territory. 

 Apparently of Miocene or later age. 



Carinifex (Vortifex*) Tryoni, Meek. 

 Shell depressed subglobose, approaching subdiscoidal, the spire being much 

 depressed. Volutions four and a half to five, increasing rather rapidly in size ; 

 those of the spire slightly convex; last one sometimes becoming^ little con- 

 cave on the upper slope near the aperture, and more or less ventricose below, 

 the most prominent part being near the rather small, deep umbilicus, into 

 which it rounds abruptly; all rounded on the outer side, and without any 

 traces of carina? or revolving markings. Suture well defined. Aperture 

 rather large, subcircular, its height being to its breadth about as 29 to 34; lip 

 sharp, oblique, and produced forward above, faintly sinuous at the middle ot 

 the outer side as well as at the inner side of the base, where it is a little 

 thicker. Surface ornamented with small, distinct, regular ridges, and much 

 finer lines of rowth running parallel to the very oblique outline of the lip 



Height, 0-35 inch; breadth, 0-64 inch; height of aperture, 0-29 inch; 

 breadth of do., 0-34 inch. 



This shell differs from the last, not only in its smaller size, more rounded, 

 less rapidly enlarging whorls, and more prominent spire, but particularly in 

 its very much less excav ated umbilical region. It evidently vanes consuler- 



* I propose the subgeneric name Vorli/ex for these shells, which differ from the typical 

 forms of Carinifex. 



1870.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ably in form and surface markings, some of the specimens being proportion- 

 ally more ventricose, or, in other words, have the body volution, and conse- 

 quently the aperture, higher in proportion to breadth than the others, 'while 

 more or less difference in the elevation or depression of the spire is observ- 

 able. The most marked differences, however, are to be observed in the char- 

 acter of the surface markings. Generally the little regular costse parallel to 

 the lines of growth are pretty well defined, but in some cases they fade away 

 so as to be scarcely distinguishable from the fine incremental lines; while in 

 others they are strongly marked, regularly disposed costas. Sometimes, dif- 

 ferent parts of the surface of the same individual specimen present the varia- 

 tion of sculpturing mentioned. It may be found convenient to designate the 

 more ventricose form as variety ventricosa. 



Named in honor of G. W. Tryon, Jr., of Philadelphia. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



Carinipex (Tryoni, var.) concava, Meek. 



The only two specimens of this form obtained are considerably smaller than 

 the adult size of the last described species, and differ in having the spire so 

 strongly depressed as to be really concave, and thus to give the entire shell a 

 subplanorbicular outline. Its umbilicus is proportionally of about the same 

 size, as in the C. Tryoni, and its two or three volutions, as in that form, are 

 rounded and without carinse. Its aperture is more nearly circular, being 

 about as wide as high, in consequence of the body volution being proportion- 

 ally less prominent below. Its costae are very strongly defined and regularly 

 disposed. 



It seems improbable that this can be merely the young of C. Tryoni, because, 

 of some forty odd specimens now before me, not one has the apex or first 

 two volutions concave, though they vary somewhat in prominence in differ- 

 ent individuals. 



Height, 0-18 inch ; breadth, 0-30 inch ; height of aperture, 0-18 inch ; breadth 

 of do., 0-17 inch. 



Locality and position. Same as foregoing. 



Devonian Species. 

 Spirifer (Trigonotreta) Pinonensis, Meek. 



Shell attaining about a medium size, somewhat wider than long, varying 

 from transversely subovate to a nearly semicircular general outline ; rather 

 gibbous in adult examples ; cardinal margin nearly or quite equaling the 

 greatest breadth, and terminating in rectangular or rather more obtuse extre- 

 mities ; lateral margins rounding to the front, which is sometimes rounded, 

 sometimes slightly sinuous, or in other examples more prominent and suban- 

 gular in the middle. Ventral valve generally rather more gibbous than the 

 other, its greatest convexity being in the umbonal region, from which it rounds 

 off evenly toward the front and lateral margins, as well as to the beak, which 

 projects beyond that of the other valve, and is rather distinctly incurved ; 

 cardinal area of moderate height, narrowed to the lateral extremities, more or 

 less inclined backward, and strongly arched with the beak ; foramen having 

 nearly the form of an equilateral triangle, and provided with slightly raised, 

 sharp lateral margins; mesial sinus shallow, rounded, smooth, and of mode- 

 rate breadth narrowed regularly, and well defined to the apex of the 

 beak. Dorsal valve generally more than semicircular, most convex in the 

 central and anterior regions; beak projecting little beyond the cardinal mar- 

 gin, and with the narrow area incurved; mesial ridge depressed, smooth, 

 and faintly furrowed along the middle, corresponding in outline to the form of 

 the sinus in the other valve. Surface of each valve ornamented by from 

 eleven to about fourteen simple, regular, rounded, radiating plications on each 

 side of the mesial fold and sinus, and also showing, under a magnifier, minute, 

 regular, crowded radiating stria?, crossed near the front by stronger undulating 

 lines of growth. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



Length of a medium sized specimen, 0-92 inch ; breadth of do.. 1-20 inch 

 convexity, 0-72 inch. 



As nearly as can be determined from a description onlv, this shell would 

 seem to be closely related to S. macrothyris, Hall, from the Upper Helderberg 

 Limestone of New York and Ohio (see 10th Report Regents, p. 133), but differs 

 in being always narrower in proportion to length, never being near " twice as 

 broad as long." Its area also differs in narrowing regularly to the lateral ex- 

 tremities of the hinge, instead of having parallel margins. On comparison, 

 with good specimens of S. Oweni, Hall, from the Upper Helderberg Limestone at 

 the falls of the Ohio, which species our shell nearly resembles, it is found to 

 differ in having the beak and area of its ventral valve always more strongly 

 arched. Its area is also proportionally narrower, and its plications larger and 

 less numerous. There are in the collection a large number of well preserved 

 specimens, showing the characters given to be very constant. 



Locality and position. Pinon Station, Nevada. Devonian, probably of the 

 age of the Upper Helderberg Limestones of New York. 



Lower Silurian Species. 

 Euomphalus (Raphistoma?) rotuliformis, Meek. 



Shell small, sublenticular, or more than twice and a half as wide as high, 

 with the periphery sharply angular, and the much depressed spire a little 

 more prominent than the convexity of the last turn below the angular peri- 

 phery ; umbilicus very wide, deep, and depressed conical ; volutions six or 

 seven, exceedingly narrow, and increasing very gradually in size, all obliquely 

 flattened, or sometimes slightly concave on the upper slope, which is nearly 

 coincident with that of the spire, and with the under side sloping downward 

 and inward, and nearly one-third wider than the upper surface to the umbili- 

 cus, around which they are rather distinctly angular; aperture obliquely 

 rhombic. Surface unknown. 



Breadth, 0-32 inch; height, 0-12 inch; breadth of last turn on the upper 

 slope, 0-15 inch ; do. on the under slope, 0-18 inch ; breadth of aperture, 0-09 

 inch ; height of do., 0-07 inch. 



This species is evidently nearly allied to Euomphalus polygyratus, Roemer, 

 from the Lower Silurian rocks of San Saba, Texas (see Kreid. Von Texas, 

 tab. xi, fig. 4 a, b). It differs, however, in being much smaller, its greatest 

 diameter being less than one-fourth that of Roemer's species, although it 

 shows nearly the same number of volutions. Its volutions are also propor- 

 tionally more convex below, and slope more abruptly into the umbilicus. 



Locality and position. Ridge south of Muddy Creek, Nevada Territory, from 

 a gray subcrystalline limestone of Lower Silurian age, probably of the same 

 horizon as the Calciferous sand rock of the New York series. 



Euomphalus (Raphistoma?) trochiscus, Meek. 



Shell sublenticular, about twice and a half as wide as high, spire much de- 

 pressed, or but little higher, measuring from the horizon of the sharply angu- 

 lar periphery, than the convexity of the last turn below the same ; umbilicus 

 wide, deep and depressed conical ; volutions four and a half to five, increas- 

 ing gradually in size, all obliquely flattened (or sometimes slightly concave) 

 above, nearly on a line with the slope of the spire, and sloping downward and 

 inward below to the umbilicus, into which the curve is so abrupt as to form 

 an obtuse angle around the same ; aperture wider than high, and rhombic 

 subtrigonal in outline. Surface unknown. 



Breadth, 0-40 inch; height, 0-15 inch; breadth of last turn, 012 inch; 

 breadth of umbilicus, about 0-25 inch. 



This is similar in general appearance to the last species, but may be read- 

 ily distinguished by its less numerous whorls, which increase more rapidly in 



1870.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



size. It is much more nearly allied to a form now before me in masses of 

 chert from the west side of Lake Pepin, in Minnesota, found in beds of about 

 the age of the Calciferous Sand rock of the New York series. The latter, 

 however, attains a much larger size, some of the specimens being an inch in 

 diameter, with about six volutions. The Minnesota form is also more sharply 

 angular on the periphery, and has the upper side of the volutions distinctly 

 more concave, and the spire more depressed.* 

 Locality and position, same as last. 



Paradoxides ? Nevadensis, Meek. 



The only specimen of this Trilobite obtained, consists of a natural cast, 

 formed by a moderately thick crust of Arragonite, deposited in a mould or 

 impression of a part of the thorax and the pygidium, with the free borders of 

 the latter broken away. Its rather large size, much depressed form, spinife- 

 rous pleura, and general physiognomy, as far as seen, at once recall to the 

 mind the well known genus Paradoxides. A closer inspection, however, shows 

 its pygidium to be proportionally larger than we see in the known species of 

 that genus, with possibly the exception of P. Forchhameri, of Angelin. 



Of the thorax, eight of the posterior segments are preserved. These show 

 the axial lobe to be much depressed, and about as wide as the lateral ones, 

 exclusive of the free recurved points of the pleura. The segments of the 

 axial lobe are defined by a broad rounded furrow or depression across the an- 

 terior side of each, and have much the general appearance of those of some 

 species of Paradoxides, being a little thickened, squarely truncated, and 

 slightly curved forward at the ends. But they differ in showing distinct re- 

 mains of a mesial spine or tubercle on each, and in having an obscure, oblique 

 furrow or depression on each side, passing outward and backward from the 

 broad anterior transverse furrow to the posterior lateral angles, so as partly to 

 isolate the slightly thickened and truncated extremities of each. The lateral 

 lobes are nearly flat, and composed of pleurae that extend straight outward at 

 right angles to the axis, to their free extremities, which are abruptly con- 

 tracted (almost entirely on the posterior side) into slender, rounded, very 

 sharp spines, which curve backward and outward. Each of the pleura? is also 

 provided with a broad, rather deep, flattened furrow, .which commences near 

 the inner end, and extends straight outward for some distance, wiih parallel 

 sides, but gradually tapers, mainly on the anterior side, to a lanceolate point, 

 before reaching the free extremities. These furrows have not the obliquity 

 usually seen in those of Paradoxides, but run parallel to the direction of the 

 pleurae, so as to leave slender straight ridges, of equal size, along the anterior 

 and posterior margin of each rib. 



The pygidium, exclusive of the portions of the free border broken away, has 

 a nearly semicircular outline, being about twice as wide as long, while it is as 

 much flattened as the thorax. The part remaining equals in length the five 

 thoracic segments next in advance of it. Its mesial lobe is much depressed, 

 and about three-fourths as wide, anteriorly, as the breadth of that of the tho- 

 rax at its widest part seen. Posteriorly it tapers very little, and extends 

 nearly the entire length of the pygidium, as seen with the free border 

 broken away. It is evident, however, that the flattened border projected more 

 or less behind its termination. It shows distinctly five segments, with indica- 

 tions of about two others at the posterior end. The lateral lobes have each 

 three segments, the anterior one being extended out nearly parallel to those of 

 the thorax, while the others are directed more obliquely backward, and rap- 

 idly widen outward. Like the pleura?, they have each a broad flattened fur- 

 row, that of the anterior one being nearly parallel to those of the pleura, 



* This Minnesota shell probably belongs to an undescribed species, as it has more volu- 

 tions than the form described by Dr. Owen, under the name Stroparollus {Euomphalus) Min- 

 nesotensis. (See his large Geological Report of 1852, p. 581, pi. 11, rig. 12 and 13.) If so, it 

 might be called Euomphalus Pepimnsis. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



while those of the other two are directed more obliquely backward, particu- 

 larly the posterior one, which is almost parallel to the longitudinal axis of 

 the body. These furrows are so deep and broad as to give the three ments 

 of each lateral lobe the appearance of six irregular ridges, the irregularity 

 being produced by the posterior two segments instead of passing along the 

 middle of each segment, being curved backward so as to divide these seg- 

 ments very unequally, leaving the anterior part much broadest. No fine sur- 

 face markings are preserved on the specimen. 



Entire length of the imperfect specimen, 2-75 inches, of which remaining 8 

 thoracic segments form 1-70 inch; breadth of the thorax, exclusive of tbe 

 free spiniferous ends of the pleura?, 2-05 inches, and including the projecting 

 ends of the pleura?, 2-40 inches; length of what remains of the pygidium, 1-03 

 inch ; breadth of do., about 1-80 inch. Supposing it to be a true Paradox- 

 ides, with not less than sixteen thoracic segments, the entire specimen, when 

 complete, could not have been far from six inches in length. 



It is possible I should call this species Olenus or Conocoryphe Nevndemis, 

 but its large size seems to be an objection to placing it in any section of either 

 of these genera. In the possession of a node or spine on each of the thoracic 

 segments, as well as in the direction of the posterior segments of the lateral 

 lobes of the pygidium, it agrees with the type of Parabolina, but unfortunately 

 the specimen is not in a condition to show whether or not these segments of 

 the pygidium terminated in produced marginal spines, while the furrows of 

 its pleura have not the obliquity of those seen in that type, but agree more 

 nearly with those of some species of Conocephalites. The comparatively large 

 size of its pygidium, and the nodes or spines on its thoracic segments, as well 

 as the nature of the furrows of the pleura?, are rather against its reference to 

 Paradoxides, and lead me to think that it may belong to an undescribed genus. 



Conocoryphe (Conocephalites) Kingii, Meek. 

 Entire form ovate, and much depressed, with breadth equaling about two- 

 thirds the whole length. Cephalic shield semicircular, or a little wider than 

 long, with the anterior and antero-lateral borders regularly rounded in out- 

 line, and provided with a narrow, slightly defined marginal rim ; posterior 

 margin nearly straight, with the lateral angles terminating in abruptly pointed 

 extremities, so short as scarcely to project as far backward as the posterior 

 margin of the second thoracic segment. Glabella depressed nearly even with 

 the cheeks, about two-thirds as long as the entire head, and between one-third 

 and one-fourth the breadth of the same behind, but narrowing forward to its 

 subtruncated anterior end, and separated from the cheeks on each side and in 

 front by a shallow furrow ; occipital furrow moderately well defined, and con- 

 tinued as rather deep broad furrows along the posterior margins of the cheeks 

 out nearly to the points where the facial sutures cut the margin ; lateral fur- 

 rows not clearly defined in the specimens, but apparently consisting of four 

 pairs. Facial sutures directed at first, for a short distance, forward from the 

 inner anterior end of each eye, then curving gracefully outward as they ex- 

 tend forward, until near the anterior margin of the head, where they arc a 

 little wider apart than the distance between the eyes, but again curving rather 

 abruptly inward, so as to reach the anterior margin nearly on a line with each 

 eye; posteriorly these sutures extend at first outward, nearly at right angles 

 to the longitudinal axis, from the posterior end of each eye, and then curve 

 gracefully backward so as to intersect the posterior margin between one- 

 fourth and one-third the distance from the lateral angles, inward toward the 

 glabella. Eyes rather depressed, slightly arched outward, and separated irom 

 each other by a space somewhat less than half the entire breadth of the head. 

 and placed less than their own length in advance of the posterior margin, and 

 about once and a half their length behind the front margin of the head ; vis- 

 ual surfaces narrow, and not showing any lenses under a good magnifier 

 Thorax with its length bearing the proportions to that of the head, of 79 to 



1870.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



52, and to its own breadth of 79 to 107, being very slightly wider near the 

 middle than in front, and narrowing posteriorly, with gently convex lateral 

 margins, from behind the middle to the pygidium. Axial lobe depressed, nar- 

 row, or only about two-thirds the breadth of each lateral lobe at its anterior 

 end, and narrowing regularly with straight sides posteriorly ; segments thir- 

 teen, nearly or quite straight, and each with a small node or prominence at 

 each end."* Lateral lobes depressed or nearly flat ; pleurae almost transverse 

 or arching slightly backward, to near the extremities, which are abruptly 

 pointed ; each with a well defined furrow, which commences small near the 

 anterior inner end, and widens and deepens for about half-way out, and then 

 narrows and becomes more shallow, so as to die out before reaching the late- 

 ral extremities. 



Pygidium subsemicircular, being rounded posteriorly, with a narrow, 

 slightly flattened border, and somewhat rounded anterior lateral extremities ; 

 length bearing to that of the thorax the proportions of 30 to 79. and to that 

 of the head of 30 to 52, with a breadth of not quite two-thirds of that of the 

 head ; axial lobe more than two-thirds the length, narrow, depressed, and 

 showing more or less distinctly about five segments ; lateral lobes much de- 

 pressed, nearly twice as wide at the anterior end as the middle one, each with 

 about three segments, which curve a little backward and become obsolete be- 

 fore passing upon the narrow smooth border ; segments each provided with a 

 comparatively large longitudinal furrow, corresponding to those on the 

 pleura. 



Entire surface apparently smooth, excepting fine radiating strias on the an- 

 terior aud lateral portions of the cephalic shield that are scarcely visible with- 

 out the aid of a magnifier. 



Whole length, 1-60 inch; breadth of thorax, 1-07 inch; do. of cephalic 

 shield (somewhat flattened by pressure), about 1-12 inch; length of thorax, 

 70 inch ; do. of pygidium, 0-30 inch ; breadth of do., 0-60 inch. 



Of this fine Trilobite three entire specimens and a part of another were ob- 

 tained. They are, however, all merely sharply defined natural casts, formed 

 by the deposition of a crust of arragonite in the original moulds left by the 

 fossil in some kind of a matrix. The specimens were evidently somewhat 

 flattened by pressure before or at the time they left their impressions in the 

 rock. This compression has obscured the lateral furrows of the glabella, but 

 most of the other characters of the upper side of the fossil are clearly seen, 

 even to the facial sutures, and the faintly marked radiating striae seen around 

 the front and lateral margins of the cheeks. 



The genus Conocephalites (or more properly Conocori/phe, for a strict applica- 

 tion of the rules of priority would, I should think, require that the latter name 

 should be adopted for the genus to which they were both applied) is so nearly 

 allied to Olenus that it may not be always easy to distinguish the two types 

 without seeing the hypostoma, and hence it is possible that the form under 

 consideration may be more properly an Olenus. As it has more the regular 

 oval outline of the former, and less pointed and produced pleura than the lat- 

 ter, while it shows clearly the fine radiating striae around the anterior and 

 lateral margins of the head so often seen in Conocori/phe, it more probably be- 

 longs to that genus. It is worthy of note, however, that all of the specimens 

 seem to be much more depressed or flattened than any of the species yet de- 

 scribed of that genus, while only one of them shows any traces of the slender 

 ridge usually seen passing from the anterior end of each eye to the front ex- 

 tremity of the glabella, and in this one the ridge is so faintly marked as to 

 leave doubts whether or not it is natural. 



Locality and position. Antelope Springs, Dryont Mountains, Nevada. Lower 

 Silurian, and probably, judging from the known position of the genus Conoce- 

 phalites, in the rocks of this country and Europe, from the Primordial zone. 



* In some specimens these nodes seem to be wanting, while in others they do not exist 

 on all of the segments. 



[April, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



May 3d. 



Dr. Kenderdine in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



Prof. Leidy exhibited the internal organs of generation of a Hog, whirl. 

 were of an anomalous character, and had been sent to him for examination 



by Dr. S. C. Thornton, of Moorestown, New Jersey. The animal, Dr. Thorn- 

 ton informed him, had been bought for breeding purposes, and from outward 

 appearances was considered as a good sow. The animal was frequently in 

 heat, and as often received the boar. At these periods it would froth at the 

 mouth, and champ in the manner usual under such circumstances in the mil.'. 

 As the animal would not breed, it was fattened up for meat, and when killed, 

 the butcher, surprised at the peculiar appearance of the internal genital org. ins, 

 sent them to Dr. Thornton. The condition of the external organs the latter 

 did not ascertain, as they had not been preserved. 



In the specimen exhibited, the uterus and vagina were about as well devel- 

 oped as ordinarily in the sow, but approaching the usual position of the 

 ovary, the uterine horns abruptly narrowed into an impervious cord extending 

 along the inner edge and included in the peritoneal fold enclosing an epididy- 

 mis. 



A testicle with the epididymis occupied the usual position of an ovary in 

 relation with the uterns. The testicles were equally well developed on both 

 sides, but no traces of ovaries were evident. The body of the testicle measured 

 about an inch and a half long, by one and a quarter broad, and one thick. 

 The interior exhibited the ordinary appearance. The well developed epididy- 

 mis terminated in a vas deferens extending along the course of the uterine 

 horns, enclosed in the fold of the broad ligament, to the anterior wall of the 

 vagina, in which it pursued its way to the incised extremity of the latter. The 

 vaginal portions of the vasa deferentia were enlarged and provided with late- 

 ral caeca. The epididymis and vas deferens were distended with a milky 

 liquid, but this on examination was found to contain no spermatozoa, only 

 epithelial cells and granular matter. 



May 10th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-four members present. 



May nth.. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Thirty-five members present. 



Prof. Leidy directed attention to a few fossil bones lying on the table. One 

 of the specimens, a well preserved tibia, had been obtained by Prof. Hayden 

 from the pliocene formation of Little White River, a tributary of White River, 

 in the Mauvaises Terres of Dakota. A second specimen, a radius, looking as 

 if it might hare belonged to the same skeleton as the former, together with 

 an astragilus, were found by Prof. Hayden in the pliocene deposit of the Nio- 

 brara River, Nebraska. These bones indicate a small robust species of Rhino- 

 ceros not likely to have been the same as the Ilyracodon Nebrascmsis or the 

 Aceratherium octidmtalis, which belong to the miocene formation of the .Mau- 

 vaises Terres They are too small to have belonged to the Rhinoceros cra**u> } 

 whose remains were found in association with two of the specimens. Their 

 relation to R. meridianus of Texas, K. hesperius of California, and A. matutuius 

 of New Jersey is uncertain. 



1870.] 5 




66 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The tibia has an extreme length of 9} inches ; the breadth of the head is 4} 

 inches ; of the lower end 3J inches. 



The astragalus at its condyles is 2J inches wide; the width of the anterior 

 articulation is 2\ inches. 



The radius has an extreme length of 9 inches ; the width of the upper ex- 

 tremity is 3 inches ; of the lower extremity 3^ inches. 



The remaining specimen, obtained by Prof. Hayden on the Niobrara River, 

 is the lower portion of the humerus, having about the same size and construc- 

 tion as the corresponding portion in the Bengal Tiger. It probably pertains 

 to Aelurodonferox, which was established on a specimen of a superior sectorial 

 molar, from the same locality. 



May 24th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



May 31s*. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Fifty-three members present. 



The report of the Microscopical and Biological Section for April 

 and May was read. 



The following were elected members of the Academy : 



Miss Grace Anna Lewis, Miss H. T. Smallwood, Miss E. Horner, 

 Messrs. G. Rice, D. B. Smith, D. D. Willard, Walter D. Comegys, 

 Wm. H. Gumbes, T. H. Speakman, John T. Morris and H. St. G. 

 Elliott. 



The following were elected Correspondents : 



Col. R. S. Playfair, of Algiers ; Prof. Carl Wilhelm Bceck, of 

 Christiania ; Prof. Frank H. Bradley, of Knoxville, Tenn. ; and 

 Prof. Rawson W. Rawson. 



June lih. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



The publication of the Proceedings for January, February, March 

 and April was announced. 



June 1-ith. 



Dr. Bridges in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Description 

 of New Species of Grasshopper from Colorado." By Prof. Cyrus 

 Thomas. 



Prof. Leidt stated that he had recently received for examination several 

 small collections of mammalian remains, from three different localities, which 

 were especially interesting, as indicating faunas and formations similar to 

 those of the Mauvaises Terres of White River, Dakota, and of the Niobrara 

 River, Nebraska. 



[June, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



One of the collections, received from the Smithsonian Institution, and ob- 

 tained by Clarence King during the U. S. Geological Exploration of the 40th 

 parallel, consists of specimens found on Sinker Creek, Idaho. These indicate 

 a later tertiary formation like that of the Niobrara River. Among them are 

 fragments of jaws and teeth of Mastodon mirijicus and of Equus excelsus, both of 

 which belong to the Niobrara pliocene fauna. 



A second collection, accompanying the former, consists of specimens ob- 

 tained by Mr. King in Utah. Among them are remains of Protohipput perdittu 

 Merychippus miralnlis, and Cosoryx, all of which belong to the Niobri ene! 



A third collection, received from Prof. II. S. Osborn, of Lafayi tti I ollege 

 Easton, Pa , was obtained on John Day's River, Oregon. The fossils indicate 

 a miocene fauna and formation like that of the Mauvaises Terres of White 

 River, Dakota. Among them are remains of Oreodon Culbertioni, and what is 

 suspected to be Stylemys Nebrascensis. 



A fourth collection, received yesterday from the Smithsonian Institution 

 was obtained by the Rev. Thomas Condon, of Dalles City, Oregon, from the 

 same locality as the latter. It consists of a few specimens, mostly uncharac- 

 teristic fragments, but among them are recognized several which pertain to 

 species of the miocene fauna of the Mauvaises Terres. Small fragments of 

 jaws with portions of molars belong to Oreodon Culbertsoni, though two exhibit 

 slight peculiarities. In an upper molar of one, a small accessory fold projects 

 from the outer concavity of the posterointernal lobe, as in the Deer. In an- 

 other specimen the inner surface of the outer lobe of part of a molar is longi- 

 tudinally rugose. In a third specimen there is no peculiarity. Another small 

 fragment of an upper jaw, with portion of a molar, apparently belongs to 

 Agriochcerus lalifrons. The specimens indicated are labelled "John Day';, 

 Oregon." 



Accompanying the last collection there is a portion of the head of a tibia, 

 about the size and form of the corresponding part in a Horse, thoroughly 

 petrified, and marked " Alkali Flats, Oregon." A few additional but un- 

 characteristic fragments are marked " Crooked R. D." 



Prof. Leidy further made some remarks on Hadrosaurus and its allies, as 

 follows : In the " Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia and Reptilia," published 

 August, 1869, Prof. Cope has referred the supposed dinosaur Thespesius to 

 Hadrosaurus, apparently from my not having expressed the distinctive charac- 

 ters of the two genera with sufficient clearness. 



Specimens of teeth of a herbivorous dinosaur, obtained by Dr. Hayden on 

 the Judith River, a tributary of the Upper Missouri, I referred to a relative of 

 the Iguanodon with the name of Trachodon (Pr. A.N. S. 1856, 72; Trans. Am. 

 Phil. Soc. 1859, xi, 140). 



At the same time several vertebra, together with an ungual phalanx, col- 

 lected on Grand River, were referred to a geuus with the name of Thespesiui 

 (Pr. 1856, 311 ; Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 1859, xi, 151). 



Subsequently the great part of the skeleton of an Iguanodon-Wke animal was 

 discovered in the green sand formation of New Jersey, and described by me 

 under the name of Hadrosaurus (P 'r. 1858, 215; Cret. Rept. U. S. 1865, 76). 



The teeth of the latter animal are identical in form with the most charac- 

 teristic specimen originally referred to Trachodon, but differ in having the en- 

 ameled border of the crown tuberculate. 



Recently I have regarded Trachodon, as indicated by the teeth, as not dis- 

 tinctive from Hadrosaurus (Pr. 1868, 199). 



From my remarks that " had the remains of Thespesius and Trachodon been 

 found in a deposit of the same age I should have unhesitatingly referred them 

 to the same animai" (Cret. Rept. 84), Prof. Cope, from a misconception of the 

 meaning, has regarded Thespesius the same as Hadrosaurus. 



The difference in character of the corresponding vertebra; render the two 

 genera distinct, though, as in a multitude of other instances, they may have 

 possessed teeth nearly alike, or even identical in form and construction. 



1870.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The caudal vertebras of Hadrosa uras are biconcave or amphiccelian ; those 

 of Thespesius, at least the larger, more characteristic ones, are convexo-concave 

 or opisthoccelian. 



In the present condition of knowledge of the remains of Hadrosaurus and 

 its allies, the following appear as distinct: 



HADROSAURUS. 



Caudals biconcave or amphiccelian ; cervicals and dorsals convexo-concave 

 or opisthoccelian. 



Hadrosaurus Foulkii. 



Leidy : Pr. A. N. S. 1858, 218 ; Cret. Rept. U. S. 1865, 76, pis. ii, figs. 9 

 11 ; viii, fig. 13 ; xii, xiii, figs. 1 19, 24 28 ; xiv xvii, figs. 4, 5. 



Crowns of the teeth tuberculate at their enameled margins. 



Hadrosaurus mirabilis. 



Trachodon mirabilis, Leidy: Pr. 1856, 72 ; Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 1859, 140. 



Crowns of teeth non-tuberculate at the enameled margins. 



Remarks. The non-tuberculate character of the borders of the teeth was 

 not unlikely associated with others in the skull, &c, which if known would 

 probably separate this species as a distinct genus from Hadrosatirus. 



Hadrosaurus tripos. 



Cope: Pr. A. N. S. 1869, 192. 



Founded on several caudals from the cretaceous formation of Sampson Co., 

 North Carolina. The robust character of the vertebras, with their strongly 

 developed articular processes ior chevrons, recalls to mind the caudals of 

 Iguanodon, as represented in Tab. xxxvii of Owen's Monograph of the Reptilia 

 of the Cretaceous Formation, published by the Palreontographical Society. 

 The specimens probably represent a true Iguanodon. 



Hadrosaurus minor. 



Marsh : Pr. A. N. S. 1870, 2. 



Indicated by several vertebra; from the cretaceous green sand of New Jersey. 



THESPESIUS. 

 Caudals convexo-concave or opisthoccelian. 



Thespesius occidentals. 



Leidy: Pr. A. N. S. 1856, 311 ; Trans. Am. Phil. Soc. 1859, 151, pi. x, figs. 

 15. 



Hadrosaurus (?) occidentalis. Cope: Syn. Ext. Batr. and Rept., Aug., 1869, 

 98. 



It is not improbable that part or the whole of the teeth originally referred 

 to Trachodon mirabilis may belong to this animal. Even if such should prove 

 to be the case, the different character of the vertebra? would render Thespesius 

 quite distinct from Hadrosaurus or Trachodon. 



It is uncertain, nay improbable, that the small caudal, with the plano-con- 

 cave body, represented in figs. 6, 7, pi. 10, of the Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. 

 1859, should belong to Thespesius occidentalis. 



Prof. Leidy next made some remarks on the family of the Vinegar-eels, the 

 substance of which was as follows: The number of species and genera of ne- 

 matoid worms, represented by the Vinegar-eels, and constituting the family 

 AnguillulidiTj is astonishingly great. They are found in multitudes frequently 

 in and about moist decaying and fermenting organic substances. Mr. Bas- 

 tian, of London, a few years since contributed to the 2-5th volume of the 

 Transactions of the Linnean Society a paper, in which he has given descrip- 

 tions, with characteristic figures, of most of the known species, including 

 about one hundred new ones, which he observes he discovered from a few 



[June* 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



limited regions in England in the course of fifteen months. In Beeking tor 

 the source of the small thread-worm, or Ozyuris vermicularis, which infi 

 man, I have also been led to discover some new species, of which I pro] 

 in due time to publish descriptions with drawings. As is commonly the 

 in organic nature, we find the specific form changing with the cbang< in 

 condition, but the species are often fouud to differ where difference in the con- 

 ditions are hardly appreciable. 



Mr. Bastian, in a note to his description of the Vinegar-eel, Anguillula aceti, 

 says he was indebted to Dr. Davaine for the. opportunity of examining the 

 animals, and adds that "they are much less frequent than is generally 

 imagined, at all events in England ; and this may be due in gnat measure to 

 the adulteration of our vinegar with sulphuric acid." It would thus appear 

 that the Anguillula aceti he examined was contained in a specimen of what 

 may be suspected to have been the wine vinegar of France. The cider vinegar 

 so commonly used in this country usually teems with Vinegar-eels. Our 

 cruets, when held up to the light, even to the sharp sight of a naked eye fre- 

 quently exhibit the worms swarming, especially at the border of the surface, 

 as if in search of both air and light. By comparison of our cider Vinegar-eel 

 with Mr. Bastian's description and drawings of the true Anguillula aceti, which 

 1 infer to be the wine Vinegar-eel, it appears to belong to a different specieB. 

 From the descriptions of previous authors of the European Vinegar-eel, I had 

 considered ours as the same. I shall not now give a description of the ani- 

 mal, proposing to do so in 'future, together with other species. I may say, 

 however, while it has nearly the size and form of the Anguillula uceti, it has the 

 oesophagus of the form in the genus Cephalobm of Bastian. 



June 21st. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Twenty members present. 



Prof. Leidy remarked that the two fossils presented this evening by Dr. W. 

 F. McAllister, of Burlington, Kansas, were obtained in that vicinity from 

 gravel, at a depth of thirty feet, in digging a well. One of the specimens con- 

 sists of a plate from a large molar of the American Elephant, Elephas Ameri- 

 canus. The other is the fore part of a ramus of a lower jaw of an Ox, perhaps 

 of a large individual of the Bison Antericanus. In comparison with the corres- 

 ponding part of the jaw of the existing animal, the measurements are as 

 follow : 



Fossil. Recent jaw. 



Depth at fore part of first molar 24 lines. 21 lines. 



Depth at incisive foramen. 26 " 24 



Depth at lowest part of hiatus 21 " 18 



Length of hiatus in advance of molar 52 52 



Thickness below first molar 14 " H 



Prof. Leidy further stated that he had recently received for examination a 

 small collection of fossils, through the Xew York Lyceum of Natural History 

 and the aid of his friend Mr. George X. Lawrence, which belonged to Mr. Win. 

 Newcomb, of New York. The collection is said to have been brought from 

 the Rocky Mountains, but the exact locality has not yet been ascertained. 

 Most of the fossils consist of fresh-water shells, evidently of tertiary age, but 

 adherent matrix indicates them to have been derived from several different 

 strata Accompanying them there are a few bones, of which one is the coro- 

 nary bone, apparently of Equus excelsus ; the others mostly pertain to 

 fishes a large cvprino'id and a ray. As the living cyprinoids are fresh-vi 

 fishes the association of the remains of a ray may perhaps indicate that this 

 was also a fresh-water species, though it is not unlikely that it may belong to 



1870.] 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



a marine formation. The two fishes, apparently extinct species and genera, 

 not previously noticed, are indicated by the remains briefly described as 

 follows : 



Oncobatis pentagonus (Ovxoc, a boss or tumor; Pane, a ray). Founded on 

 a dermal boss, with a pentagonal outline, the sides of which are convex. 

 Under surface strongly convex. Upper surface with five planes sloping from 

 a central summit and defined by as many prominent borders. From the sum- 

 mit an oval enameloid areola occupies rather less than half the extent of the 

 upper surface. The areola is shining, nearly smooth, and exhibits concentric 

 lines of structure. The very summit of the boss appears composed of a 

 harder, more translucent substance protruding through the opaque white 

 areola. Greater diameter of the boss, 16 lines; shorter diameter, 15 lines; 

 thickness from summit, 8 lines; greater width of areola, 8 lines; shorter 

 width, 6 lines. 



Mylocyprincs robustus Founded on specimens of pharyngeal bones with 

 teeth. There are eight of them of different sizes, all imperfect. The largest 

 have been double the size of the smallest, and perhaps they may have per- 

 tained to several species. They are robust, and indicate a large and powerful 

 fish. They have the general form of the posterior pharyngeals in the carp and 

 other cyprinoids. The posterior ramus is prolonged above in a stout pedicle, 

 with an inner triangular articular surface for attachment to the cranium. Its 

 posterior suiface, below the pedicle, is broad, nearly flat, with the outer bor- 

 der convex and acute, the inner border concave and sustaining a single row 

 of teeth. 



The anterior ramus is thick, and abruptly narrows forward, but is broken 

 at its fore part in all the specimens. At the angle of conjunction of the rami 

 the bone is massive, thicker fore and aft than transversely. The outer border 

 of the bone forms two flexures. The antero-external surface is broad, verti- 

 cally concave, transversely convex, in some cases entire, in others excavated 

 into pits communicating with the bottoms of the teeth or extending through 

 the bone where the latter have been shed. / 



The teeth form a single vertical row of four, and are supported on the inner 

 side of the conjunction of the two rami of the pharyngeal bone, projecting a 

 short distance below the level of the inferior ramus, and extending rather 

 more thau half-way up the superior ramus. They have stout bony bases, and 

 are of the true masticatory type. They bear a striking resemblance to human 

 premolar teeth the largest in size as well as form. They are all of the same 

 character, or present no variety. They successively increase in size from be- 

 low upward. The crown of the teeth is transversely oval, with a broad tritu- 

 rating surface depressed at the centre. The enameloid structure is everywhere 

 smooth. 



In all the specimens the uppermost tooth has been shed and not replaced, 

 its position being indicated by a large quadrate pit of the pharyngeal, in some 

 specimens extending through the bone. In most of the specimens the teeth 

 are but little or scarcely worn. In one specimen they are half worn away, 

 very obliquely from within, outward and forward. Measurements from several 

 specimens are as follow : 



Lines. Lin. Lin. Lin. Lin. Lin. 

 Length of posterior ramus to level of middle 



of second tooth 22 



Width on level of third tooth 8 8 7 6 5 



Thickness on level of second tooth 11 9 9 7 6| 



Length of series of four teeth. 13 12 8 



Transverse diam. of first tuoth 1\ 2 



" " second tooth 4 4 2.V 



Vertical diam. " ; < 2;] 2] l| 



Transverse diam. of third " 4.1 4 A\ 3h 



Vertical " " " 3i 3 _ 3\ 3" 



[J 



une 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



hrol ;,! q appears M t0 b o e . fr0 u m an 0,d individual ; the teeth have all been shed or 

 broken away No. 2 is the most robust specimen. The uppermost tooth hat 

 SosHion 6 ^ no \ re P la r d - The bone is aot excavated in pits beneath Z 



Position of the contained teeth. No. 3 has the upper tooth shed and the bone 

 perforated in its position. The lower three teeth are retained, but half worn 

 away. Jn No. 4 the bone is perforated in the position of the upper shed tooth 

 misos. 5 and 6 the bone is perforated in the position of the upper shed tooth 

 and deep pits exist beneath the position of the two teeth below 



bince communicating the above, Prof. Hayden presented a specimen of a 

 pharyngeal bone of the same fish from Castle Creek, Idaho. 



June 28(h. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



July 5th, 1870. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



"Remarks on Huxley's Classification of Birds." By T. Hale 

 Streets. 



" On the Stipules of Magnolia and Liriodendron." By Thomas 

 Meehan. 



The resignation of Mr. Gilbert Coombs as a member was read 

 and accepted. 



Mr. Meehan exhibited some specimens of Rumex oblongifolius, a naturalized 

 Dock from Europe. He said that so far as he could ascertain from European 

 specimens, and the descriptions of Babington, Bromfield and other English 

 botanists, the plant was there hermaphrodite; but here, as correctly stated by 

 Dr. Asa Gray, it was monoeciously polygamous. He thought the fact that 

 plants hermaphrodite in one country becoming unisexual in another, was 

 worthy of more attention by those engaged in the study of the laws of sex 

 than had been given to it. This Rumex did not stand alone; R. crispus and 

 R. patient a exhibited the same thing. Fragaria was another instance well 

 known to horticulturists, although the fact scientifically had not received due 

 weight. The average tendency of the strawberry in Europe was to herma- 

 phrodism, here to produce pistillate forms. 



He also called attention to the fact that in these American specimens uni- 

 sexuality was in proportion to axial vigor. This law he had already explained 

 in times past to the Academy, and new instances were scarcely necessary. 

 Here, however, the moderately weak plant had more hermaphrodite flowers 

 than the strong one ; and in both classes of specimens the number of male 

 flowers gradually increased with the weakening of the axis, until the ends of 

 the raceme were almost wholly of male flowers. The first flowers on the 

 strong verticels were usually wholly pistillate. 



Prof. Cope inquired whether the facts now noted by Mr. Meehan did not 

 conflict with those he had before brought to the notice of the ty in 



coniferous plants? He understood that in them the female Bowers wire at 

 the apex of the young shoots, and the male flowers in lower and more exti 

 positions. 



Mr. Meehan replied that the facts were identical in both instances in this, 



1870.] 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



that tli c female flowers in coniferous plants were borne only on the strong 

 vigorous shoots. These vigorous shoots would in time be crowded and weak- 

 ened by shade, when they would cease to bear female, and produce male 

 flowers only. 



Prof. Cope suggested that, without reference to the relative vigor of the 

 shoots, the male flower was below, and the female flower above; in these 

 Docks the female flower was below, and the male above. 



Mr. Meehan said he had never placed any value on relative position, unless 

 relative vigor went with it. In the case of coniferous trees, Pimis particu- 

 larly, the male flowers were evidently partially formed the fall before ex- 

 pansion, and at the same time that bud scales were forming, and growth 

 forces nearly at rest for the season. They were still in the weaker position, 

 although appearing at the base. 



Prof. Leidy remarked that the interesting communication of Mr. Meehan 

 had recalled to his mind a result of his experience, which he thought would 

 accord with that of others, viz : that species viewed as common to both 

 Europe and America frequently exhibit slight peculiarities, which are dis- 

 tinctive of those of the two countries. It is what might be inferred even if 

 we admit the evolution of existing species from a common remote ancestry. 

 A wide separation, with a considerable lapse of time and a modification of 

 circumstances, are sufficient to account for the slight and acquired differences. 

 Even where differences are not observed in form and structure, they may exist 

 in the habit of the species. Thus the common wolf of Europe and America, 

 viewed by many naturalists as of the same species, differs strikingly in charac- 

 ter in the two countries. In the former it is a more fearless animal, not hesi- 

 tating to attack man ; in the latter, it is said never to attack man. 



At an early period observers saw, or thought they saw, many of the same 

 species of plants and animals indigenous to America that occur in Europe, 

 and hence the common names of European species were applied to those of 

 America. Gradually the list of species common to the two countries was 

 much reduced, and now is comparatively small. 



As might be anticipated, in descending in the scale the species common to 

 the two countries become more frequent; nevertheless many of these common 

 species exhibit geographical peculiarities, which by some naturalists would be 

 regarded as sufficient to consider them distinct. The singular rotifers Meli- 

 crrta ringtns and Limnias ceratophylli are described by European authors as 

 being most general]} 1 - solitary. Here they frequently occur in compound 

 bunches, up to several dozen in a bunch. Agassiz observes : " In the Ameri- 

 can Hydra, as in the European, there are two types, the brown and the 

 green. The American green Hydra, unlike the European, has the power of 

 extending its body in a remarkable degree. Our brown Hydra has very short 

 tentacles, while the P^uropean has long ones." Agassiz views the differences 

 mentioned as characteristic of adifference of species, and names the American 

 green Hydra II. gracilis, and the brown one //. earned. Ayres indicates a 

 brown Hydra, in California, which he says differs from the latter " in the same 

 point and to about the same degree as carnea differs from fit sea." He names 

 this one II. tenuis. "Whilst ready to admit the existence of the peculiarities in 

 these different Hydrse, I do not feel so ready to regard them as distinctive of 

 species, unless the principle is adopted of viewing each peculiarity in a plant 

 or animal as distinctive of species. I have long been familiar with both green 

 and brown Hydra' in the vicinity of Philadelphia, but I have not been able to 

 satisfy myself that they are distinct from Hydra viridis and Il.fusea, two of 

 the four species usually indicated as found in Europe. Our brown Hydra is 

 very common, ami may be obtained on the under side of stones in the Dela- 

 ware and Schuylkill, or on the submerged stems of plants. Though ordinarily 

 its arms appear no longer or shorter than the body, I have seen them elongate 

 atter some davs of rest in a glass vtssel of water to three or four times the 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 73 



length of the body, which is about five lines. In ouc instance 1 saw a Im.w tl 

 Hydra from the Schuylkill, the body of which was live lines in length, eloti| 

 its arms to nearly three inches. The green Hydra is found nunc especiall 

 the under side of floating: leaves in quiet ponds. It usually has five ai 

 though I have observed six, and more rarely seven ; and this is also the case 

 with the brown Hydra, which sometimes has but four arms. As in 11. viridis, 

 the arms of our green Hydra are shorter than the body. 



July V2th. 



The President, Dr. PiUSCHenberger, in the Chair. 



Ten members present. 



Poof. Leidy exhibited a fossil, submitted to his examination by the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. It consisted of a much mutilated portion of a ramus of 

 the lower jaw of a large ruminant. The specimen, very friable and encrusted, 

 was found 22 feet below the surface, in clay, on the " bench " or " second 

 bottom " of Boyer River, Harrison Co., Iowa, and was presented to the Smiths. 

 Inst, by D. R. Witter, of Woodbine, Iowa. Other bones were discovered in 

 association with the specimen, but crumbled to pieces. 



The jaw fragment was especially interesting, as it is supposed to belong to 

 Ooibos cavifrons, and is the first specimen of a lower jaw yet discovered which 

 may be attributed to that animal. It contains the last molar tooth nearly < n- 

 tire, but much worn. This tooth is constructed after the type of the corres- 

 ponding one in the Sheep, and exhibits no trace of the accessory fold between 

 the anterior and median pairs of lobes such as exists in the Ox, nor of a tuber- 

 cle such as is found in the same position in the Deer. The fore and aft 

 measurement of the crown of the tooth is full two inches; the width at the 

 fore part of the crown is nearly an inch. 



An isolated tooth, a last lower molar which had not yet protruded from the 

 jaw, from Natchez, Mississippi, preserved in the Museum of the Academy, by 

 comparison with the tooth in the jaw fragment, would appear to belong to the 

 same animal. The specimen is two and a quarter inches long and three- 

 fourths of an inch wide at the fore part, and is two inches in its anteropos- 

 terior measurement. 



Mr. T. Hale Streets made the following remarks on the cranium of an 

 owl : 



Among the Academy's collection of birds' crania there is one belonging to 

 a species of owl (supposed to be the Nyctale acadica), which presents a very 

 remarkable instance of the want of symmetry in corresponding parts of oppo- 

 site sides. 



In this skull the squamous portion of the temporal bone is thin and scroll- 

 like, and joins the post-frontal plate. What is interesting about it is the man- 

 ner in which this union takes place. On the right side the lower end of the 

 scroll-like squamous bone turns upward and forward, and unites with the 

 post-frontal. On the left side the contrary to this is the case; the upper ex- 

 tremity of the bone curls over and joins the post-frontal, while the lower ex- 

 tremity is free. 



If there had been but a single specimen of this cranium I would have been 

 led to regard this instance of symmetry as abnormal ; but as the same pecu- 

 liarity of structure is presented by two (these being the only representatives 

 of the species in the collection), it would rather suggest itself as a normal 

 condition, although instances of coincidence of abnormality exist, especially 

 in the lower forms of life. 



July im. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 

 1870.] 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Prof. Leidy exhibited a fossil which had been submitted to his examination 

 by Prof. Hayden, who obtained it on the Moreau River, a tributary of the 

 Upper Missouri, and was probably derived from the cretaceous formation. 

 The specimen consists of the body of a vertebra of a saurian, devoid of the 

 neural arch, which was separated at the suture. It bears a resemblance to 

 the corresponding part of Notkosaurus, a saurian of the triassic deposits of 

 Europe. The body is cylindroid, moderately narrowed towards the middle, 

 and has the articular ends slightly concave. The sutural connection of the 

 neural arch, including transverse processes, extends some distance down the 

 sides. The measurements of the specimen are as follow : Length of body in- 

 feriorly, llj lines; superiorly, I inch; depth in front, 11 lines; width, 10 

 lines. 



The specimen probahly indicates a marine saurian allied to Nothosaurus, 

 and from its resemblance, the auimal to which it belonged may be named 

 Nothosaurops occiduus. 



July 26th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Ten members present. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed : 



Descriptions of GRASSHOPPERS, from Colorado. 

 BY PROF. CYRUS THOMAS. 



ANABRUS, Hald. 



The characters of this genus were not fully given by Prof. Haldeman when 

 he established it, and those subsequently added by Girard are scarcely suffi- 

 cient to distinguish it from other closely allied genera. Having both sexes" of 

 three species, I give the following as the principle characters that distinguish 



it. 



Gen. Char. Head large, smooth, advanced in front between the antennas. 

 Pronotum selliform, extending over the base of the abdomen ; rounded and 

 smooth ; anterior portion of the sides reaching below the eyes ; posterior 

 margin and angles rounded. Prosternum bidentate ; posterior angles of the 

 meso-sternum elevated and acute. Elytra very short, having the form of 

 scales in the males ; covered by the pronotum in the females. Antennas longer 

 than the body, sometimes extendiug beyond the ovipositor. Eyes ovate. 

 Labrum round. Maxillary palpi twice the length of the labial ; three outer 

 joints nearly equal ; terminal enlarged at the tip. Abdomen stout, moderate 

 length ; the sub-anal plate of the male large, slightly notched at the tip, 

 furnished laterally with filiform appendages which appear to be articulated 

 at the base ; the cerci (or subsituted appendages) sub-cylindrical, enlarged 

 and generally bifurcate at the extremity. Ovipositor long, bent beyond the 

 middle. Cerci, in the female, small, generally hairy. Legs slender ; posterior 

 pair ver3 r long, femora enlarged next the body, but slender and straight be- 

 yond the middle, as long as the body (omitting the head) ; posterior tibia: 

 long as the femora, slender; all the tibiae provided with four rows of spines, 

 the anterior rows often scattered and apparently irregular. A stout denti- 

 culoid process above the anterior coxa. The tarsi broad, soles concave ; 

 third articulation cordate. 



This genus differs so slightly, in description, from Thyreonotus, Scrv., that 

 there is scarcely a necessity for its retention. But an examination of the 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA.. 75 



species is necessary to decide this point. A. pnrpuraseetu, Ubler, must be 

 excluded from this genus, as the presternum is not spined ; it may belon 

 Pterolepis, Rambur, but I have seen no species of this genus, and therefore 

 cannot speak positively. 



A. Stevensonii, n. sp. 



Female. Purple, mottled with yellow ; form and coloring somewhat similar 

 to A. purpuraseens, Uhler, but smaller and slenderer in all its parts. Face 

 white, the transverse suture below the front fuscus; tips of the mandibles 

 piceous ; palpi pale, the penultimate joints of the maxillary palpi striped with 

 purple above ; antenna? long and slender, reaching nearly to the extremity of 

 the ovipositor, dusky ; cranium cinereous, with the vertex, and a line extending 

 back from each eye, dull white. Pronotum short, not carinated, a slight 

 transverse incision near the front; the two oblique dorsal impressions very 

 narrow and dark; surface smooth, lurid ; a large black spot occupying the 

 central portions of the sides behind the transverse incision; lateral margins 

 broadly and anterior margins narrowly bordered with pale yellow; posterior 

 angles tipped with piceous-black. Tegmina hid beneath the pronotum. Ab- 

 domen dull purple, somewhat darker along the sides. Ovipositor slightly 

 curved beyond the middle, piceous at the tip ; cerci slender, hairy. Beneath, 

 dull white. Anterior and middle legs short, femora slender and straight; 

 posterior legs very long and slender, femora and tibiae each the length of the 

 body omitting the head ; all pale, purplish-yellow ; femora smooth ; tibia with 

 spines irregularly placed on the angles, also on the rounded portion, black 

 at the tips. The spine above the anterior coxa pale, slender, and bent 

 abruptly downward. 



Length 1-13 in. ; pronotum -26 in. ; posterior femur -93 in.; ovipositor -75. 



Hab. Southern Colorado, on elevated grassy terraces near the mountains ; 

 and the parks. Collected by C. Thomas while accompanying Dr. Hayden's 

 Geological Expedition to Colorado and New Mexico. 



It is named in honor of Mr. James Stevenson, a member of the expedition, 

 who has for years accompanied Dr. Hayden in his western explorations, and 

 has been a diligent collector of specimens in all departments of Natural 

 History. 



A. minutus, n. sp. 



Male. Similar in coloring and appearance to the A. Stevensonii. Face 

 mottled with purple; a dark spot below each eye; a narrow yellow line 

 running back from the upper corner of the eye ; cranium cinereous, head 

 somewhat covered by the pronotum. Pronotum short, rounded, smooth ; 

 transverse incision almost obliterated ; oblique dorsal impressions irregular; 

 the dorsal portion cinereous ; sides with a triangular black spot, interrupted 

 by light spaces ; broadly margined with dull white ; lateral angles tipped with 

 piceous-black. Tegmina short, extending over the second abdominal seg- 

 ment ; margins pale yellow, central portions brown. Abdomen cinereous, a 

 darker line along the sides ; notch of the sub-anal plate very small ; append- 

 ages small, hairy ; the tip of the last dorsal segment strongly bifid, denticulate. 

 The cerci (I use this term for those appendages supplying the place of cerci) 

 slightly bent, bifurcate. Legs same color as abdomen and cranium ; anterior 

 pair quite short; middle pair a little longer; the posterior pair very long, 

 the femur marked with a dark line along the upper angle; tibia slender, 

 spines tipped with brown. Antenna? at least twice as long as the body. 



Length -75 in. ; posterior femur -62 in. ; tegmina beyond the pronotum -1 in. 



Female similar to the male in appearance, coloring and size. Cerci small, 

 hairy. Ovipositor bent, somewhat narrowed in the middle ; brown at the tip. 



Length as in the male. Ovipositor -55 in. 



Bab. Same as A. Stevensonii. Some specimens in each of the species have, 

 on the under side of the posterior femur, about four or five abortive spines, 



1870.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



especially the older or more mature ones. This may be important in fixing 

 the position of the genus, which is evidently one of transition. 



THAMNOTRIZON, Fischer. 



T. purpurascens, Uhler. 



Found in the parks of the Rocky Mountains and on the more elevated 

 plains of Colorado and New Mexico. I have removed this from Anabrus, the 

 prosternum not being spined. 



T. TRILIXEATCS, nOV. Sp. 



Female. Small, somewhat like. A. rninutus, Thos , but presenting some 

 marked differences. Head moderate size, immersed in the pronotum nearly 

 to the eyes ; occiput very short, convex ; vertex rounded between the antennae, 

 slightly advanced in front, this advanced portion triangular and deflexed ; 

 face short, broad, smooth, somewhat convex ; labrura large, round. Palpi 

 rather longer than usual, slender, cylindrical ; terminal joint of the. maxillary 

 palpi the longest. Pronotum small, rounded, not carinated ; advanced in 

 front over the back of the head, margin round, or sub-truncate ; posterior 

 extremity extended over the base of the abdomen, round ; sides narrowed 

 below, reach only about the lower border of the eyes; posterior margin of the 

 sides sloped quite obliquely, slightly sinuate. Antennae reach the tip of the 

 ovipositor. Ovipositor about the length of the body, slightly bent; cerci 

 short, stout, covered with minute depressed hairs : the plate between them 

 triangular. Prosternum not spined. Anterior tibia? with two spines in front; 

 medial with two rows on the outside 4 (counting the one at the base) and 2. 

 (Posterior legs wanting in the only specimen obtained.) 



Color. (Siccus) testaceous green striped and varied with pale yellow. 

 Face testaceous, palest below, with a brown spot at each lower corner. Three 

 pale, tolerably broad, yellow stripes reach from the head to the end of the 

 abdomen ; one along the back and one along each side. Two oblique black 

 marks on the back of the pronotum about the middle ; lower margins of the 

 sides yellow; beneath pale. Ovipositor fuscus. Antenna? fuscus. Legs 

 purplish, tarsi piceous. 



Dimensions. Length -75 in.; to the end of the pronotum "34 in. ; ovipositor 

 73 inch. 



Ilab. S. E. Colorado. 



EPHIPPITYTHA, Serv. 



This is given by Serville only as a subgenus of Phaneroptera, but the char- 

 acters which distinguish it from the rest of the Phaneropteres certainly justify 

 me in raising it to a genus. Prothorax selliform, more or less scooped trans- 

 versely, elevated posteriorly. Front tuberculate. 



E. GRACILIPES, IIOV. Sp. 



Male. Small, slender, legs very long and delicate. Occiput short, convex, 

 terminating in a triangular tubercle at the vertex, not raised above the first 

 joint of the antenna;, nor passing between them ; face vertical, straight, flat, 

 terminating upward just above the central ocellus in a sharp angle; ocellus 

 situated exactly between the lower borders of the folds around the base of 

 the antennae. Pronotum selliform, sub-cylindrical in front, widened and 

 elevated posteriorly ; a slight transverse indenture each side a little behind 

 the middle; not carinated, surface smooth, with a very soft velvety appear- 

 ance. Elytra very narrow and straight, passing the abdomen one.-third their 

 length ; wings narrow, longer than the elytra. Abdomen sub-cylindrical : 

 sub-anal plate notched and bi-spinose ; cerci stout, hairy, curved and mu- 

 cronate; upper plate semicircular. Prosternum not spined ; meso- and meta- 

 sternum have the posterior angles obliquelv raised, obtuse. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Color (siccus) pale yellow. A roseate stripe on the frontal tubercle : second 

 joint of the antennae orange yellow; a bright yellow curved line runs from 

 the upper canthus of each eye to the pronotum ; there they meet with broader 

 lines on the pronotum, which, converging posteriorly, fade near the middle 

 of the dorsum. Anterior portion of the pronotum dotted with red. Stridu- 

 lating organs very small, roseate. Elytra and wings pellucid. Abdomen 

 minutely clotted with reddish-brown. Tips of the cerci black. 



Dimensions. Length -75 in. ; to tip of the wings 1-25 in. ; wings pass the 

 elytra (about) -25 in. ; femur 1- in. ; tibia -95 in. 



Hab. Southern Colorado. Unique specimen. 



ORCHELIMUM, Serv. 



0. vulgare, Harr. 



The specimens I have marked as belonging to this species may prove to be 

 new, as they vary considerably from the type. 



0. gracile, Harr. 



Hab. Found in Colorado. 



UDEOPSYLLA, Scudd. 

 U. robusta, Hald. 



I have marked my specimens by guess, as I have no description of this 

 species at hand; but think from allusions to it in the descriptions of other 

 species, that my specimens belong there. Found in the parks. 



CENTHOPHILUS, Scudd. 



C. DIVERGENS, Scudd. 



My specimens vary in having the hind femora of the females spined, spines 

 very short. Yet I am inclined to believe they belong to this species. 



A CEWTjD.E. 



(Truxalicles.) 

 OPOMOLA, Serv. 



0. NEO-MEXICANA, nOV. Sp. 



Female. Long, slender, truxaloid. Head conical ; occiput convex, ascend- 

 ing to the somewhat elevated vertex ; vertex convex, ascending, sub-margined, 

 rotund, rather elongate before the eyes ; face very oblique ; frontal ridge dis- 

 tinct, sides parallel, slightly. sulcate ; lateral carina; distinct, obtuse, divergent, 

 reaching the lower corners of the face. Antennas strongly ensiform, trique- 

 trous, reaching to the tip of the pronotum ; situated in deep foveohe under 

 the front of the cone. Pronotum about as long as the head ; sides parallel ; 

 all its parts very regular ; tricarinate, carina? not elevated but distinct, all 

 about equal ; obtusely rounded anteriorly and posteriorly. Elytra a little 

 shorter than the abdomen ; wings a little shorter than the elytra. Posterior 

 femora reach the extremity of the abdomen ; very slender. Pro sternal point 

 short and obtuse, scarcely more than a pointed tubercle. 



Color (immediately after being taken out of alcohol, in which it had been 

 immersed for some months). Face yellow, dotted with red; lateral carina; 

 rosaceous ; on the top of the head a faint roseate stripe runs from the end of 

 the cone to the pronotum, bordered each side by a yellow stripe ; from the 

 lower part of each eye starts a bright red stripe which, running back across 

 the head, continues along the upper portion of the side of the pronotum to 

 its extremity and is lost on the elytra. Median carina of the pronotum red, 

 the dorsal spaces yellow; lower portions of the sides yellow. Ely tr a semi- 

 transparent ; base and stripe along the dorsal margin roseate. Wings trans- 



1870.J 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



parent, veins ochreous. Abdomen dirty yellow, reddish on the basal segments. 

 Legs rufous ; posterior femora have a pale stripe along the upper edge ; spines 

 of the posterior tibiae tipped with black. 



Dimensions. Female. Length 1-62 in. ; to tip of elytra 1-50 in. ; to extremity 

 of pronotum -52 in. ; femur -88 in. ; tibia -86 in. 



Ilab. N. E. New Mexico. 



I have not seen the male. This species comes near 0. mexicana, Sauss, but 

 differs from it in the following respects : The antennas are not rotundate, 

 but sharply triquetrous ; the pronotum is carinate, although the carina? are 

 but raised lines ; and although the posterior lobe is minutely punctured, the 

 pronotum cannot be truly called densely punctate. This species approaches 

 closely to Truxalis. 



(Mucronale.) 



ACRIDIUM, Geof. 

 A. flavo-fasciatum, De Geer. 



But one specimen obtained, near the line between Colorado and New Mexico. 



CALOPTENUS, Serv. 

 C. spretos, Uhler. 



C. bivittatus, Say. 



I have other Calopteni which approach very near these species, yet appear 

 to be distinct, but I will not attempt to name them until I have an opportunity 

 of further comparison. 



PEZOTETTIX, Burm. 



P. BOREALIS, Scudd. 



In the canons and parks of the mountains. 

 P. picta, nov. sp. 



Medium size, body elongate, stout, sub- cylindrical. Occiput convex; vertex 

 sloped, flat and narrow between the eyes, suddenly widening in front, this 

 part transverse and triangular ; the frontal ridge somewhat convex, with a 

 very slight depression at the central ocellus ; eyes large, prominent, oval ; 

 antennae filiform, nearly as long as head and thorax. Sides of the pronotum 

 parallel in the male, and very slightly divergent posteriorly in the female ; 

 carinas obliterated by the sub-cylindrical form ; posterior margins of the sides 

 obliquely sloped but not sinuous ; posterior angle rounded ; a slight transverse 

 incision each side close to the front margin ; the three usual transverse in- 

 cisions distinct, crossing the dorsum in the female, the posterior one only 

 crossing in the male ; anterior margin and posterior lobe densely punctate, 

 remainder smoother, sparsely punctate. Elytra very small, oblong-ovate, 

 reaching tip of the second segment ; not meeting on the back ; nerves reticu- 

 late prominent. Wings minute. Posterior femora stout, short, not reaching 

 the extremity of the abdomen. Subanal plate of the male recurved, with a 

 kind of tubercle on the convex surface ; upper plate falcate ; cerci small. 

 Prosternal spine stout, conical. 



Color (siccus). Alternating rings of dark purple and white. The dark 

 stripes are placed as follows : Down the frontal ridge ; on the occiput ; down 

 each cheek ; two interrupted broad stripes running obliquely upward and 

 backward from the anterior margin and angle of the pronotum ; four spots on 

 the base of each dorsal, and two on each ventral segment of the abdomen ; 

 posterior femora crossed by three broad bands. The nerves of the elytra 

 white, the spaces black. Colors of the male and female the same. 



Dimensions. Female. Length 1-30 in. ; femur -6 in. ; pronotum -28 in. Male. 

 Length -95 to 1- in. ; femur -5 in. ; pronotum -26 in. 



Hub. Eastern Colorado, on the plains and foothills at the base of the 

 mountains. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7!) 



When alive this is a very pretty insect, stripes of red, black and white al- 

 ternating; when immersed in alcohol the red fades, and the black 

 paler. 



[Miitiei.) 



BRACHYPEPLUS, Charp. 



As Charpentier, at the time he established this genus, failed to give its 

 characters, and the description of Girard is so short and deficient, I give, from 

 a large number of specimens, what I conceive to be the distinguishing' char- 

 acters. 



Gen. Char. Body very robust, acridoid. Occiput broad, convex, smooth 

 vertex margined ; frontal ridge broad, short, slightly sulcate, expanding below . 

 lateral carina? distinct, with a sulcus behind each; antennal foveokc deep 

 oblong; cheeks prominent. Pronotum large, elongate, tricarinate ; carina; 

 distinct, continuous; widest below, expanding posteriorly, sides straight 

 chagrined above, sides glabrous ; no transverse incisions on the dorsum ; 

 anterior margin rounded, extending slightly on the head; posterior margin 

 round. Elytra and wings rudimentary (in the known species). Legs very 

 robust ; posterior femora long as the abdomen, swollen ; tibiae strongly spined 

 nearly the entire length. Antennae filiform, joints distinct ; long as head and 

 thorax. Sub-anal plate of the male tumid ; cerci very short ; female append- 

 ages stout, broad. 



A well marked and distinct genus. 



B. magnus, Girard. 



This ponderous species is easily recognized by fig. 1, pi. xv, Marcy's Expl. 

 Red River La., but the description is quite deficient ; therefore, to aid future 

 investigations, I give it more minutely. 



(Siccus). Yellow, spotted with brown. Occiput very slightly scabrous ; 

 with fine shallow punctures ; elevated margins of the vertex meet in about a 

 right angle at the front ; frontal ridge, although narrow above and gradually 

 expanding as it descends, is not narrowed opposite the antennae, margins dis- 

 tinct obtuse ; sulcus shallow, expanding and fading below, punctured. Pro- 

 notum with three distinct, continuous, piceous carinas; dorsum strongly 

 chagrined, yellowish, with aeneous lustre ; sometimes, especially in the females, 

 there is a yellow line along each margin of the dorsum ; sides purplish at the 

 upper angles, yellowish below. Elytra ovate, reaching the third abdominal 

 segment; nerves longitudinal, slightly branching near the extremity; light 

 brown spotted with black. Wings very small, yellow. Abdomen carinated 

 above ; each segment with a brown spot each side, and margin marked with 

 a row of white dots. 



Legs as described by Girard. 



Dimensions. Length (female) 2 in.; pronotum -55 in. ; elytra -3 in.; femur 

 1-25 in. Males about one fourth less ; size varies considerably. 



Hab. First observed near Arkansas River (going south) iu the vicinity of 

 Canon City. From thence southward to Santa Fe, N. M. 



CEDIPODA, Latr. 

 <E. corallipes, Hald. 



Dimensions. Female. Length J -80 in. ; femur -90 in. ; tibia -75 in. : to tip 

 of elytra 2 in. Male about two-thirds as large as the female. 



Hab. Found at Cheyenne ; along the Divide, and south of Raton Moun- 

 tains. The bright vermillion tint of the posterior legs fades in alcohol I 

 am inclined to believe the (E. pardalina, Sauss, is synonymous with this 

 species. 



(E. Carolina, Linn. 



Found occasionally throughout our route. 



1870.J 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



(E. jEqualis, Say. 



Colorado. Appears to be replaced further south by (E. pruinosa, Thos., a 

 very closely allied species. 



(E. pruinosa, nov. sp. 



About the size and somewhat similar in coloring and appearance to (E. 

 ;< '/Wilis, Say, but broader across the meso- and meta-thorax. Head oblong, 

 seen from the front or side ; occiput convex, ascending: vertex strongly de- 

 clined, broad, flat, not foveolate, very slightly margined, slightly contracted 

 between the eyes ; frontal ridge prominent and rounded anteriorly above, 

 somewhat sulfate below, expanding at the ocellus, and slightly contracted 

 immediately below it, divergent and fading near the clypeus ; lateral carinas 

 distinct, sinuous and divergent below (in the males these earinse are more 

 distinct and extended than in the females). Pronotum short, sub-cylindrical 

 and somewhat coarctate in front, expanded and more angulate posteriorly ; 

 cros* incisions 1 and 3 apparent, 2 very indistinct in the male, apparent on the 

 sides in the females, 1 arcuate above, 3 slightly sinuous and situated about 

 the middle of the pronotum ; central earinse merely a raised line ; the lateral 

 carina- obliterated in front, obtuse on the posterior lobe ; truncate in front, 

 posterior angle obtuse. Elytra and wings considerably longer than the ab- 

 domen. Posterior femora broad, not reaching the extremity of the abdomen. 

 Antenna? stout, reaching the middle of the abdomen in the males, a little 

 shorter in the females, joints distinct. 



Male. Color (siccus). Ash-colored varied with brown. Head pruinose, 

 except the vertex, which is mouse-colored. Pronotum lilac on the back, sides 

 pruinose. Elytra crossed by three broad fuscus bands, middle one the broadest 

 and darkest; apex transparent. Wings transparent yellow at the base; 

 crossed by a dusky band as in OS. xqualis ; apex pellucid. Posterior femora 

 pruinose at the base, crossed by an oblique brown band beyond the middle ; 

 tip brown ; basal half of the inside black ; tibia? orange yelJow ; tarsi pale. 

 Venter pale yellow. Antenna; fuscus. 



Female differs as follows: Seldom pruinose; occiput brown; pronotum 

 reddLh-brown, varied with dots and lines of yellow. The front part of the 

 pronotum more regular and smooth ; the posterior lobe of each is densely 

 punctured, but that of the female is intersected by irregular, slightly raised 

 lines. The dark lines across the elytra narrower, paler and more irregular. 



Dimensions. Male. Length 1-10 in.; to tip of elytra 1-42 in.; pronotum -26 

 in.: femur -GO in.; tibia -58 in. Female. Length 1-48 in.; to tip Of elytra 

 1-70 in. ; pronotum -34 in. ; femur -7(j in. ; tibiae -70 in. 



Hub. Quite abundant in Southern Colorado and Northern New Mexico. 



CE. cincta, nov. sp. 



Female.. Very similar in appearance and coloring to (E. legualis, but in the 

 carvings of the head approaching the Tomonoli (Sauss) of which (E sulphurea, 

 Burin., may be taken as the type. Vertex channeled ; the margins strongly 

 and sharply elevated, waved, descending ; truncate squarely in front ; a slight 

 median line visible. Frontal ridge vertical, straight, sulcate, narrowed im- 

 mediately below the antenna?, expanding at the base, reaching the transverse 

 suture ; lateral carina? distinct, divergent. Pronotum rugose, tricarinate, 

 truncate in front, angled at the tip ; median carina only a raised line, cut by 

 incisions, 1 and 3 ; lateral carina? distinct on the posterior lobe, obliterated in 

 front; coarctate in front, expanding posteriorly; incision 3 (posterior) situ- 

 ated before the middle. Elytra narrow, passing the abdomen one-third their 

 length ; wings nearly as long. Posterior femora not passing the abdomen. 

 Antenna? reaching beyond the pronotum slightly. 



Color (siccus). Rusty brown varied with lighter and darker shades. Face 

 and the sides of the pronotum yellow mottled with brown; two black bauds 

 paas round the front, one immediatelv above and the other just below the 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. M 



antennae, (the lower a little broader than the upper) converging behind I 

 they pass through the eye (plainly to be seen in fresh specimen) and become 

 a single black stripe behind the eye which reaches to the posterior incision of 

 the pronotum, decreasing in width as it passes along the lateral angle, Pro- 

 notum ash-colored on the dorsum, posterior lobe palest, with minute brown 

 tubercles scattered over it, a dark brown spot on each side. Elytra brown, 

 darkest next the base, semi-transparent at the apex. Wings transparent yellow 

 next the base; apical half dusky ; this dark marginal band is broad in front 

 but tapering toward the inner angle but does not reach it ; reaches along the 

 front submargin nearly to the base; is somewhat darkest at the inner and 

 outer borders, reaching to the apex. Posterior femur reddish with two ob- 

 lique darker bands on the outer face, and three black bands inside. 



Dimensions. Length 1 in. ; to tip of elytra 1-26 in. ; to the end of pronotum 

 (from the front of the head) -31 in. ; femur -54 in. ; tibia -41 in. 



Hub. New Mexico. 



CE. Carliniaxa, nor. sp. 



Female. This species at first sight has much the appearance of CE. Carolina, 

 but an examination of the head or thorax, or spreading the wings will soon 

 undeceive the observer. Although smaller than that species it is more robust, 

 compared with its length. Head carved much the same as CE. eorallipes. 

 Occiput short, sub-convex, not ascending ; vertex very broad, slightly de- 

 flexed : the broad shallow central foveola divided by a median carina 

 into two elongate pentagonal spaces, the median carina and margin next 

 the eye being the longest sides; the lateral shallow foveola; triangular: at 

 the top of the frontal ridge is a lunate depression; frontal ridge somewhat 

 broad, obtusely margined, expanded at the ocellus, vertical, reaching the 

 cross suture ; lateral carinas distinct, reaching the corners of the face. An- 

 tenna? filiform, sub-planate. Pronotum sub-cylindrical in front, fiat on the 

 lateral lobe, expanded posterior^, not constricted; median carina a raised 

 line, cut by the cross incisions 1 and 3 ; posterior incision before the middle; 

 lateral carina? obliterated in front, distinct on the front of the posterior lobe: 

 posterior lobe densely punctate. Elytra and wings extend slightly beyond 

 the abdomen. Posterior femora short, not reaching the extremity of the ab- 

 domen ; inflated. 



Color (siccus). Ash-colored. Vertex and posterior lobe of the pronotum 

 tinged with reddish-brown. Elytra opaque and somewhat brownish at 

 the base, semi-transparent at the apex ; dotted with pale brown. Wings 

 when fully expanded present a very broad fuscus band across the base 

 parallel with the body, the outer border reaching beyond the middle ; a 1 

 triangular space at the apex transparent, with dark and white veins. Posterior 

 femora spotted with black inside ; tibia 5 yellow. 



Male. The male differs only in size, and in having the elytra crossed by 

 irregular brownish bands, somewhat as in CE. sequalis. 



Dimensions. Female. Length 1-38 in.; to tip of elytra 1-58 in. ; to tip of 

 the pronotum (measuring from the vertex) -45 in.; femur -64 in. Male. 

 Length 1-16 in. ; to tip of elytra L3b - in. ; to tip of pronotum -42 in. : femur 

 58 inch. 



Hah. Eastern Colorado. 



Named in honor of Col. Carlin, for the assistance rendered the expedition 

 by him. 



CE. NEGLECTA, IIOV. Sp. 



Female. Much like (E. corallipes, about the size of the male of that species, 

 for which it has doubtless often been taken. In its carvings, as well 

 it comes very near (E. Mexicana, Sauss. Vertex very broad, transverse, fo\ eo- 

 late; the large central foveola divided, by the recurving margins, into t 

 contiguous foveolae, these margins, seen from the front, form a W, with a line 



1870.] 6 




S2 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



across the middle angle; lateral foveola? obsolete; frontal ridge bisulcate 

 above the ocellus, silicate below, expanded at the ocellus. Pronotum flat 

 above, rough ; median carina an elevated line, very distinctly severed by 

 cross incision 3, before the middle; incisions 2 and 3 come together at the 

 carina ; anterior portion rugose ; posterior lobe covered with elongate tuber- 

 cles, its sides granulose. Wings and elytra extend beyond the abdomen. 

 Posterior femur about the length of the abdomen. Antenna? filiform, reach- 

 ing the tip of the pronotum. 



Color (siccus). Dirty-brown, with fuscus spots. Each elytrum has a 

 narrow yellow stripe near the dorsal border; the base brown, fading toward 

 the apex, which is semi-transparent ; marked with groups of fuscus spots 

 which at two points form irregular bands somewhat as in (E. cequalis. Wings 

 yellow at base ; a dark baud of moderate width crossing just beyond the 

 middle, curving inward to the posterior angle ; apex transparent, veins dusky. 

 Posterior femora crossed on the outside by two very indistinct oblique red- 

 dish bands ; inside, beneath and tibia? orange yellow (probably bright red in 

 the fresh specimens) ; spines of the tibiae tipped with black. Antenna? pale 

 at base, apical portion dusky. 



Dimensions. Female. Length 116 in. ; to tip of elytra 1-38 in. ; to end of 

 pronotum -44 in. ; femur -03 in. 



Hab. N. Mexico. 



This species agrees so nearly with (E. Mexicana, of Saussure, that I would 

 have marked rny unique specimen as such, but for the fact that its wings are 

 yellow at the base. 



TOMONOTUS, Sauss. 

 T, xietanus, Sauss. 



T. mexicaxus, Sauss. 



I have labelled my specimens with some hesitancy, especially those belong- 

 ing to the first species. T. nietanus, when living appears black, and may 

 easily be recognized when flying by its black body and bright red wings. It 

 is closely allied to (E. sulpkurea, Burm., which belongs to this genus. 



T. PSEUDO-NIETANCS, UOV. Sp. 



Male. Size and' appearance much like T. nietanus, Sau?s., from which it 

 differs only as follows : The facial costa is slightly broader and less excavated 

 below the ocellus ; the occiput and pronotum less rugose ; the antenna' nearer 

 cylindrical. The color is darker, the sides being deep black throughout to 

 the tips of the elytra ; the posterior part of the occiput and dorsum of the 

 pronotum an ashy-yellow, the front lobe and lateral margins of the pronotum 

 dotted with black ; the upper edge of the posterior femur has two yellow 

 spots, one next the base the larger. Beneath shining black. Wings as in 

 nietanus ; base rosaceous, posterior border broadly margined with black, and 

 a fascia of the same running along the anterior margin nearly to the base. 



Dimensions. Male. Length 1 in.; to tip of elytra 1-25 in.; femur -67 in.; 

 tibia -53 in. 



Hab. Found near Canon City, Colorado, in a mountain caflon. 



I have not seen the female. It may possibly be a variety of T. nietanus, but 

 its variations from that species added to the fact that it was found at but one 

 point, justify me in describing it as new. 



STAUROXOTUS, Fischer. 

 S. Elliotti, now sp. 



Medium size, robust, sub-angulate. Head large, widest below ; face sub- 

 vertical, strongly deflexed below tho transverse suture; occiput convex : ver- 

 tex slightly declined, foveolate ; foveohe shallow, the central broad, lateral 

 triangular, the points of the three meeting in a sharp angle midway between 

 the upper angle of the eye and the antenme ; frontal ridge not Bulcate, nar. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



lowest above ; lateral carinae distinct, strongly divergent below ; eyes medium 

 size, ovate. Pronotum short, sub-truncate in front, posterior angle obtuse 

 and rounded ; the three transverse incisions distinct and closely approximate 

 anterior shortest, 2 and 3 connect at their termini on the side of the pro- 

 notum by an oblique depression ; incision 3 about the middle ; median carina 

 distinct, not, elevated; lateral earime distinct on the anterior lobe and front 

 part of the posterior lobe ; the spaces on the anterior lobe between the median 

 and lateral carinae depressed, basin-like. Elytra and wings about as long as 

 the abdomen. Posterior femora inflated at the base, attenuate near the tip. 

 Pectus not broader than the head. Antenna; filiform, reaching the end of the 

 pronotum. 



Color (siccus). Yellow varied with brown. Head yellow, occiput dotted 

 with brown, forming imperfect waved lines; antenna; pale at base, remainder 

 brown. Pronotum with a yellow cross on the back, beginning at the lateral 

 angles of the posterior lobe, converging anteriorly they cross about the middle 

 and fade on the anterior lobe ; a triangular brown spot on the posterior lobe : 

 sides brownish fading below. Elytra brown, a yellow stripe along the inner 

 margin ; lower half dotted with dark brown. Wings transparent, the veins 

 white except at the apex where they are dusky. Posterior femora yellow with 

 two or three oblique brownish spots near the upper edge, which cross and 

 become distinct; bands on the inside ; knee brown ; tibiae dusky above, and at 

 the tips, rest yellow (probably bluish in fresh specimens.) 



Dimensions. Female. Length 1-07 in. ; to tip of elytra 1-10 in. ; to end of 

 pronotum -34 in. ; femur -62 in. Male. Length -88 in. ; to tip of elytra same ; 

 femur -60 in. 



Hah. Eastern Colorado. 



Named in honor of Mr. Henry Elliot, artist of the expedition, who, in addi- 

 tion to his arduous duties, was constant in his efforts to collect specimens of 

 Nat. Hist., and who rendered me valuable assistance in collecting plants and 

 insects. 



BOOPEDON, Thos., nov. gen. 



Gen. Char. Body somewhat like Pezolettix, Burm. Head large, exceeding 

 the thorax in width, widest below : seen from the side presents a somewhat 

 semi-circular front ; occiput convex ; vertex sloping, broad, sometimes ex- 

 hibiting a shallow foveola, usually rhomboidal, with a slight median carina : 

 frontal ridge prominent, not silicate, margins obtuse and nearly parallel. 

 Antenna; nearly as long as head and thorax, inserted in deep oblong foveola . 

 Pronotum of medium length, sides parallel ; sub-truncate in front ; posterior 

 angle obtuse; three transverse incisions; posterior about the middle, cutting 

 the median carina ; median carina distinct, not elevated ; lateral carina? ob- 

 solete. Elytra shorter than the abdomen in the female, about the length of 

 the abdomen in the male ; inflated ne*r the base, narrowed at the apex ; two 

 longitudinal veins dividing it into three nearly equal fields. Posterior femora 

 stout, narrowed at the tip, passing the abdomen ; tibia; spincd, enlarged at the 

 tip Ultimate joint of the maxillary palpi enlarged at the end, truncate. 

 Prosternumwith the anterior half tumid ; latter half divided by a longitudinal 

 sulcus. Pectus sub-convex or flat. Anal appendages of the female short 

 and obtuse ; sub-anal plate of the male keeled, trigonal and turned up. 



B. nigrum, nov. sp. 



Black, medium size, female much larger than the male. 



Female. Occiput smooth, a few punctures on the vertex, a faint median 

 line visible ; eyes about midway between the front and back margins ; frontal 

 ridge convex, with a very slight indentation at the ocellus, punctured on the 

 margin, reaching nearly to the cross suture, where it suddenly expands ; lateral 

 carina: distinct, obtuse, sinuate and divergent; a deep sulcus below each eye. 

 Pronotum nearly as broad as the head; median carina distinct, straight ; pos- 



1870.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



terior lobe punctate ; central portions of the sides levigate ; cross incisions 1 

 and 2 not reaching the median carina. Elytra narrow, covering about two- 

 thirds of the abdomen, lanceolate ; the two longitudinal veins strong, ap- 

 proaching at the apex, along the borders, the reticulate veins coarse. Wings 

 shorter than the elytra. 



Color (siccus). Dark ferrugineous. Lower angles of the face and sides of 

 the lip black. Tips of the elytra black. Apex of the wings dusky, rest trans- 

 parent. Two reddish spots inside the posterior femora ; tibiae transparent 

 red. 



Male. Similar in coloring only darker. Elytra black, somewhat paler at 

 the base ; wings transparent, cloudy at the apex (I think they are roseate 

 when living.) , 



Dimensions. Female. Length 1-5 in.; pronotum -32 in.; elytra -55 in.; 

 femur -95 in. ; tibia "80 in. Male. Length -87 in. ; pronotum -25 in. ; elytra 

 55 in. ; femur -62 in.; tibia -56 in. 



Hab. South Colorado and New Mexico, from Canon City south, near the 

 mountains ; mostly in the narrow vallevs behind the first range of parallel 

 hills called "Hog-backs." 



.B. FLAVO-FASCIATUM, nOV. Sp. 



Very much like B. nigrum in size and carving. 



Female. Central foveola of vertex very shallow, divided into two parts by 

 a median carina; frontal ridge convex, sparsely punctured. Pronotum differs 

 from previous species only in having the transverse incisions less distinct. 



Color (siccus). Yellow varied with brown. Head yellow ; lower angles of 

 the face black ; a very distinct yellow line, starting from the upper comer of 

 each eye, reaches the posterior margin of the pronotum, bowing inward near 

 the middle ; bordered on each side by an irregular dark brown line ; a dark 

 line borders each eye posteriorly. Median carina of the pronotum dark 

 brown or piceous-black ; the transverse incision black ; rest of the pronotum 

 brownish, palest on the sides. Elytra formed as in B. nigrum, brown, a pale 

 yellow stripe near the upper and lower margins of each, the upper divided 

 near the base ; three oblong yellow spots in a line along the middle, and a 

 few smaller spots near the apex ; reach the third abdominal segment. Wings 

 transparent, dusky at the tips. A brown stripe along each side of the ab- 

 domen, near the dorsum ; a yellow spot in it on each segment near the upper 

 border. Venter yellow. 



Male. Unknown. 



Dimensions. Female. Length 1-5 in. ; pronotum -38 in. ; elytra -50 in. ; 

 femur -85 in. ; tibia 76 in. 



Hab. Same as preceding, but a much rarer species. 



Remarks on Huxley's Classification of Birds. 

 BY T. HALE STREETS. 



In arranging and classifying the collection of birds' skeletons, crania, and 

 sterna in the possession of the Academy, I was induced to compare some 

 points in their osteology with the statements made by Prof. Huxley in an arti- 

 cle entitled "On the Classification of Birds," which appeared in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Zoological Society of London, 1867, Part II. 



In this article Prof. Huxley divides birds principally according to the mod- 

 ifications presented by the bones forming the roof of the mouth, namely, the 

 palatines, the maxillo-palatine processes, the pterygoids, the basi-pterygoid 

 processes, and the vomer. 



After these the sternum, clavicles, coracoids, and occasionally other points 

 claim attention as affording a basis for the classification. 



He makes three orders. The first contains a single bird, the extinct Archse- 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



opteryx. The second comprises the Struthious, or Ostrich family. The third 

 embraces all the remaining existing birds. To this last he gives the name 

 Carmatae. 



The Carinatag he subdivides into four sub-orders, namely, the Drom;eog- 

 nathae, which have the Cassowaries as their type ; the Schizognntha- 

 which are '< characterized not only by the complete distinctness of the 

 maxillo-palatines from one another and from the vomer, but by the slender 

 and usually pointed form of the latter bone." The third suborder are the 

 Desmognatha?. In these the maxillo-palatines unite with one another in the 

 median line, thus filling up or bridging over the space which exists as a fis- 

 sure in the Schizognathae. The fourth suborder, the .Egithognathaj, " have 

 a palatine structure, which is, in some respects, intermediate between that of 

 the Schizognathous and that of the Desmognathous groups, while in others it 

 is peculiar." 



This introduction was deemed necessary in order to render intelligible the 

 remarks which are to follow. 



Schizognatha". 



This suborder is divided into six groups, named, respectively, the Charadri- 

 omorphac, or Plover-form ; the Geranomorphae, or Crane-form; the Cecomor- 

 pha?, or Gull-form ; the Spheniscomorphaj, or Penguin-form ; the Alectoro- 

 ruorpha?, or Cock-form ; and the Peristeromorphae, or Dove-form. 



In the group Ceeomorphae, Mr Huxley states that the " Procellaria gigantea 

 alone has presented basipterygoid processes." He had not been able to ob- 

 serve them in other Procellaridae. I have come to the conclusion, from this 

 statement, that his observations must have been limited to Procellaria gigantea 

 and to the Diomedeina?, else he could not have failed to observe them. The 

 following are the species belonging to the Procellarinae which were examined 

 by me : Procellaria gigantea, P. glacialis, P. glacialoides, P. Lessonii, P. capensit, 

 P. mollis; Puffinus tenuirostris, Pat', fuliginosus, Puf. Anglorum; Prion vitlala, 

 and Thala&sidroma Leachii. In all of these the basipterygoid processes were 

 present, and well developed (except in Thalassidroma, where they were rudi- 

 mentary), articulating with the pterygoid bones. 



From the species examined it will be seen that the possession of these pro- 

 cesses is characteristic of the subfamily. Their presence is the rule rather 

 than the exception. Their absence is rather the exception. This fact is suffi- 

 cient I think to justify a separation of them from the other Cecomorpha', and 

 to make a separate group of them under the name of Neetriomorpha?. 



The Nectriomorpha' may be looked upon as an intermediate group, con- 

 necting the Cecoraorplut? (which contains the Larida?, the Columbida?, the Al- 

 cidae, and the Diomedeinas) and the Charadriomorphae (which contains the 

 Charadriada; and Scolopacida;). 



The presence of the basipterygoid processes' allies it with the latter.* Its 

 lamellar and concavo-convex maxillo-palatines is a feature common to both, 

 but more characteristic of the Charadriomorpha\ The absence of the recurved 

 process at the angle of the mandible connects it with the Ceeomorphae. 



The vomer in Nectriomorplne differs from that found in either of the two 

 groups mentioned above. In these latter it is forked posteriori}-, and embraces 

 the basisphenoidal rostrum on each side. In most of the Cecomorpha' a boat- 

 sbaped fossa is left between the divergent posterior ends of the vomer. In 

 Diomedeinas the sides are more or less pressed together, obliterating tin' fossa. 

 The vomer tapers to a point anteriorly. The upper portion of it is flattened 



* In Glareola orientalis the basipterygoid processes are absent. The maxillo-palatines 

 are less lamellar than those found in the other Charadriomorphae. The vomer is Hell 

 posteriorly, but slender and rod-like anteriorly. The angle of the mandible presents tb>- 

 recurved process which i< characteristic of the group. 



This genus is evidently an aberrant form, but in which direction it inclines I am Dot 

 prepared to say. 



1870.J 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



out horizontally, while the lower portion is vertical in direction, and scythe- 

 shaped. This form of the bone may be more or less modified. It is not con- 

 fined altogether to these groups. 



Tu Nectriomorphse the sides of the scaphoid fossa are flattened down, and 

 the whole bone is compressed horizontally. It is somewhat tongue-shaped. 



The group Geranomorpha; is not so well defined as the Charadriomorphae 

 and Cecomorphag. It is represented by the Rallidae, by the Psophinaa and 

 Gruinae of the family Ardeidae, and by Otidinae of the Struthionida?. 



The following are the characteristics of the group, as given by Huxley: 



"The rostrum is relatively stronger than in the preceding group (Charadri- 

 omorphae), and may even be short and arched. 



" The basipterygoid processes are absent (ex. Grus antigone). 



"The maxillo-palatines are concavo-convex and lamellar. 



"The angle of the mandible is truncated. 



" In the typical groups the sternum is comparatively narrow and elongated, 

 and may be deeply notched or entire." 



In that portion of the article where he considered the cranial characters 

 alone, he states that the Rails are always devoid of basipterygoid processes. 



I found them to exist only in Ortygomeira porzana* where they are well de- 

 veloped. 



In addition to the sternal characters mentioned, I may state the following : 

 From the situation of the principal pneumatic foramen on the internal sur- 

 face of the sternum there rises a ridge which is produced upward to the ante- 

 rior border, where it becomes forked or branched, and may present either a 

 Y- or T-shaped appearance. In the former case it looks very much like the 

 bifurcated manubrium of the true Passerine birds. It was present in all the 

 representatives of this group examined,! except Fulica and Otis. 



In all of the Rails and in some of the others there is a small process pro- 

 duced upward from the symphysis between the clavicles. This is a character 

 which is constant in the Herons. Its presence in the Rails shows an inclina- 

 tion towards the Ardeime. 



In Alectoromorpha^J or Cock-form, "the rostrum may be slender and de- 

 pressed, or high and arched. Oval, flattened basipterygoid facets, sessile upon 

 the basisphenoidal rostrum and articulating with corresponding surfaces upon 

 the pterygoids, are always present. The maxillo-palatines are always lamel- 

 lar, but vary greatly in size, being sometimes very small. 



" The palatine bones are relatively long and narrow, with obsolete internal 

 laminae and rounded-off postero-external angles. 



" The angle of the mandible is produced into a strong upcurved process." 



In Peristeromorpha?, or Dove-form, " the rostrum is swollen at the tip. 

 " The skull is provided with narrow, but prominent, basipterygoid facets." 

 " The maxillo-palatines are elongated and spongy. 

 " The angle of the mandible is not produced and recurved. 

 "The sternum has two posterior notches, the inner pair of which maybe 

 converted into foramina." 



Mr. Huxley states that "the Pteroclidie in some respects, but not in cranial 

 characters, approaches the Pigeons." 



Pteroclcx arenarius I hold to be as much, if not more, Peristeromorphae as 

 Alectoromorpliae, in cranial as well as sternal characters. 



* The cranium was the only portion of this bird examined. It belonged to the Due de 

 Rivoli collection purchased by Dr. T. B. Wilson. It was labelled by that French natura- 

 list Rallus porzana. 



f Hallux crepitans, J!, aquaticus, R. maximus; Porphyria martinica, P. smaragdinus, P. hya- 

 cinthinus; Gallinula chloropus; Gnu monachus, (!. americana, and Balearic* pavonina. 



J The writer was not aware of the existence of Prof. Huxley's paper on the Alectoro- 

 morphse until this article had passed through proof. 



[July* 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



The basipterygoid processes are situated, like those iu Columbidse, al the 

 juncture of the basisphenoidal rostrum with the body of the sphenoid. A.8 

 in the Doves, they are prominent and articulate with the pterygoids about 

 midway between their anterior and posterior ends : while in the Alectoronior- 

 pha? they are flattened facets, sessile upon the rostrum, and articulate with 

 the pterygoid bones near their anterior extremity. The other cranial charac- 

 ters resemble the Cocks. 



The sternum is almost completely Peristeromorphic. The inner posterior 

 notch on each side is converted into a foramen; the outer is wide and deep; 

 both of which are Dove characters. The anterior inferior angle of tin- keel is 

 less produced forward. In this particular it is like the walking bird-. 



In all the Gallinaceous birds examined the clavicles presented a large, bro 

 process, which is developed downward from the summit of their symphysis. 

 In the Doves it is wanting, as it also is in Pteroeles arenarius. 



On the whole, 1 think that it approaches the Peristeromorphae more closely 

 than the Alectoroinorphse. 



Desmogxath.k. 



The third suborder, Desmognath;e, is divided into seven groups. They arc- 

 named the Chenomorphae, or Goose-form ; the Amphimorphae, a type inter- 

 vening between the Goose and Stork form; the Pelargomorphae, or Stork- 

 form; the Dysporomorpha?, which have the Gannets as their type: .Ktomor- 

 phs>, or Eagle-form ; the Psittacomorphae, or Parrot-form; the Coccygomor- 

 phie, or Cuckoo-form ; and the Celeomorpha?, or Woodpecker-form. 



In the Chenoniorphce "the lachrymal region of the skull is remarkably 

 long. 



"The basisphenoidal rostrum has oval, sessile, basipterygoid facets. 



"The flat and lamellar maxillo-palatines unite and forma bridge across the 

 palate. 



"The angle of the mandible is greatly produced and recurved. 



"The sternum has a single pair of notches at its truncated posterior mar- 

 gin." 



In this group Prof. Huxley places the 1'alamedea. The following are the pe- 

 culiarities presented by the bones situated at the roof of the mouth in I'ala- 

 medea cornuta. The. maxillo-palatines are inflated. They unite with one an- 

 other across the median line ; but this union is not so extensive as that seen 

 in the Anatidse. The bridge across the fissure is very narrow. The maxillo- 

 palatines, anteriorly and posteriorly, are separated by a wide interval. The 

 septum is entirely wanting, as it is in the Gallinaceous birds. Like this 

 group, again, the'anterior processes of the palatines are long and slender, and 

 their posterior ends are rounded off. The posterior extremities of the pala- 

 tines and the anterior extremities of the pterygoids do not articulate directly 

 with the basisphenoidal rostrum, as stated by Huxley. A space, the tenth ot 

 an inch, intervenes between the rostrum and the upper surface of the palatines. 

 The basipterygoid processes are long and prominent. 



The lachrymal region of the skull is remarkably short. It presents the 

 same condition in the Gallinas. . 



The angle of the mandible is produced and recurved. Ihis character exists 

 as well in the Gallinse as in the Anserine birds. 



The sternum bears no resemblance either to the Gallinaceous birds or to 

 the Anatida?. The external angles of the posterior extremity are produced 

 more than the middle portion. A slight notch exists on one side 1 his bacK- 

 ward extension of the postero-external angles of the sternum is characteristic 



also of the Albatrosses. ,i,:i, 



From the above description it will be seen that the Palamedec i cornuta exhib- 

 its a decided resemblance to the Gallinaceous form. The closed palate should 



1870.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



not exclude it from the Alectoromorpha? ; for the Cracidas show the same 

 structure in this respect. 



A bird maj present characters which are analagous to those found in 

 another bird of a different family without there necessarily being any affinity 

 between them. This is doubtless the case between the 1'alamedea and Anatidae. 



The following two characters may be added to those already laid 

 down as belonging to the Ardea. They will be found to be highly charac- 

 teristic. 



A rather long and well-developed process is produced upward from the 

 symphysis between the clavicles. The second peculiarity is in the internal 

 angles of the distal ends of the coracoids. They override one another. 

 This last peculiarity was first pointed out to me by Prof. 0. C. Marsh, of 

 Yale College. 



In Coccygomorpha?, according to Prof. Huxley, " baslpterygoid processes 

 are present only in one genus (Trogon). 



"The maxillo-palatines are usually more or less spongy. The palatines 

 are not developed into vertical plates, but are, as usual, horizontally flat- 

 tened. 



" The sternum usually presents two notches on each side, and has no 

 bifurcated manubrial process (ex. Merops). 



"The clavicles are convex forward, and without any process developed 

 backward from the summit of their symphysis." 



Basipterygoid processes were found in Priotelus temnwrus, of the family 

 Trogonidae. They are present in Turacus albocrislatus, of the Musophagidse, 

 but here they are rudimentary. They do not articulate with the pterygoids. 



Huxley states that in Merops the "palatines are devoid of any postero-exter- 

 nal elongations." In Merops ceggpticus, M. Lcschcnaultii and M. amicla the pos- 

 tero-external elongations are quite prominent. 



In Psilopogon pyrolophus and Meyalaima chrysopogon, of the family Capito- 

 nidse, the vomer presents an appearanee which is somewhat singular. It is 

 well developed. Its anterior extremity is bifurcated, and each prong of this 

 forked end is produced to the maxillo-palatine process of the correspond- 

 ing side, and becomes united with it. This form of the vomer is doubtless 

 a family characteristic. 



It was chiefly in the sternal characters that the members of the group 

 Coecygomorphas were found to differ from the statements laid down by 

 Mr. Huxley. 



In all the members of the family Cueulidas examined,* the clavicles pre- 

 sented a well- developed process at the summit of their symphysis. The 

 same process was also observed in Priotelus temnurus. In this bird the 

 manubrial process of the sternum presented a groove on its upper surface, 

 showing a tendency for it to become bifurcated. 



The clavicles may or may not be convex forward. In the Musophagidse 

 (Turacus) and in Bubutus Duvaucelii, the anterior surfaces of the clavicles are 

 straight from above downward. This is an Owl character. The family 

 Musophagida) is stated by Trof. Huxley as approaching the JStomorphse. 



In Psilopogon and Megalaima, of the family Capitonida?, and in Ijtamphasios, 

 the proximal extremities of the clavicles are expanded and T-shaped. This 

 character is common to the Celeomorpha? and the true Passerine birds. Its 

 presence in Capitonidae and Ramphastidse serves to connect them rather 

 with the Woodpecker than with the Passeres. 



The two families under consideration present another character in common. 

 The distal ends of the clavicles are not anchylosed, but are separated by an 

 interval. 



* Saurothera Mtrlini, Phcenicophaus viridis, Bubutus Buvaucelii, C'uculus canorus, <: lucidut, 

 Eudynamys orientuhs, and Centropus gigas. 



[July, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Aug. 2d, 1870. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



Prof. Leidy exhibited in a vessel of water, numerous living specimens 

 of a leech, which he said was abundant in the vicinity of Philadelphia, 

 but appears to be an undescribed species. He had first observed h in a pond, 

 on the Delaware, near Beverly, Burlington Co., N. J., from which he obtained 

 the largest specimens. It was found especially beneath half-submerged dead 

 limbs of trees, sometimes between the bark and wood, and in crevices and 

 holes of the latter made by insects. It was also found in the Delaware and 

 Schuylkill rivers near shore, beneath stones. In ditches below the city, and 

 communicating with the rivers mentioned, smaller leeches, apparently the 

 young of the same, were frequent between the leave sheaths of submerged 

 stems of aquatic plants, such as Zizania aquatica, Sdrpus fluviatilis, Sagitlaria, 

 Sparganium, &c. When disturbed, the animal receded from its position of 

 rest, and swam rapidly like the ordinary medicinal leech, JJirudo decora. It 

 appears to belong to a different genus from the latter, and approaches most in 

 character Nephelis, though it even exhibits points of difference from this as 

 ordinarily described. The more mature animal from the Beverly pond may 

 thus be characterized : 



Body elongated, flattened cylindroid, narrowing anteriorly, smooth, indis- 

 tinctly annulated, margin acute, above blackish olivaceous, below translucent 

 grayish, with a more or less reddish tinge due to the blood. No strise or 

 markings visible beneath, and the annuli in this position scarcely perceptible. 

 Annuli about 9S, above minutely punctated with yellowish olivaceous or 

 dusky whitish, and narrowly defined by the same hue. Head continous with 

 the body, obtuse. Mouth large, obliquely terminal, subbilabiate ; lower lip 

 crenulate. Jaws three rudimental folds without teeth. (Esophagus capacious, 

 with three longitudinal folds. Intestine simple. Anus dorsal, conspicuous, 

 in the penultimate annulus. Eyes six ; anterior pair largest and approxima- 

 ted: second pair in second annulus corresponding with the lower lip ; third 

 pair smallest, more deeply situated than the others, and placed slightly exter- 

 nal and posterior to the second pair. Acetabulum terminal, inferior, circular, 

 nearly as wide as the body. The larger male aperture conspicuous, ami 

 situated about one-fifth of the length of the body from the head ; the smaller 

 female aperture scarcely visible, and situated two or three annuli back of the 

 former. Length to 2J inches by two lines wide ; by contraction becoming 

 shorter and wider. 



Smaller specimens, from half an inch to an inch in length, from the ditches 

 communicating with the Delaware and Schuylkill Rivers, and from the latter, 

 agree in form and constitution with the preceding, having the same number 

 of annuli to the body, and the same number and disposition of the eyes. The 

 color is translucent pale indian-red, passing into darker shades and without 

 the colored punctse. Some young pale individuals exhibit a tew scattered 

 minute black punctaj down the back, due to single pigment cells, but mostly 

 these are absent. Intermediate sized individuals from the Delaware and 

 Schuylkill exhibit a gradation of character between the two forms indicated. 

 Further, numerous young from the ditches, kept in an aquarium for the Lasl 

 month, have gradually assumed the appearance of the more mature animal as 

 first described. 



Nephelis vulgaris of Europe has eight eyes ; and the generative apertures are 

 included between the 34th and 38th annuli. In the species above described I 

 could detect but six eyes, and the annuli at the fore part of the body are too 

 indistinctly defined to determine the exact relative position of the generative 

 apertures. 



The new species of Xephelis I would propose to name N. PUNCTATA. 



1870.] 




iJO 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I take the present opportunity of observing that yesterday, during: a stroll 

 in the meadows below the city, to procure specimens of the leech just de- 

 scribed, I observed that many of the ditches, and several ponds, were teeming 

 with the minute plant Wolffia, probably W. Columbiana, mingled with Lemna 

 polyrrhiza and L. minor. In several places I also observed Stentor polymorphic 

 swarming upon Ceratophyllum demersum, conspicuous by its bright pea-green 

 hue upon the darker hue of the latter plant. In similar positions I also ob- 

 served an abundance of Vo/vox globator. This latter I have frequently seen in 

 the vicinity of our city, and, preserved in an aquarium, have observed it pass 

 through the various stages representing what were formerly viewed as distinct 

 species under the names of V. aureus and V. stellatus. 



In the course of my walk, I noticed upon the margin of a ditch a large mass 

 of jelly, about two feet in breadth and about two inches in thickness, the 

 character of which I at first did not recognize. It reminded me of the jelly- 

 fish or medusa (Cyanea arclica), so frequently seen stranded on the ocean shore 

 of New Jersey. A nearer inspection proved it to be a mass of the remarkable 

 compound ciliated fresh-water polyp, or polyzoon, formerly described by me 

 under the name of Peclinatella magnified, which had, by an unusual recedeuce 

 of the tide, been left to die on shore. On examining the ditch in the vicinity, 

 I observed many masses of the same polyp, varying from the size of one's fist 

 to that of a boy's head, mostly attached to the pendent leaves of aquatic 

 plants growing at the margins of the ditch. 



Prof. Cope called attention to a large specimen of a Trigonocephalus, of 

 which some fourteen inches was enclosed in the oesophagus and stomach of a 

 larger Oxyrrhopus plumbeus. The specimens were from the island of St. Lucia, 

 W.I. He stated that a species not distantly related to the latter (Ophibolus 

 getulus) was said to have a similar habit of devouring our native Crotalidae. 

 The islands of Martinique and Guadaloupe had become so infested with the 

 fer-de-lance, Trigonocephaly lanceolatus, as to be in parts almost uninhabitable, 

 and that it was chiefly on account of the danger from this venomous reptile 

 that collecting naturalists had of late years so seldom visited them. The an- 

 nual number of deaths in Martinique from this cause was said to be very large. 

 Some means had been adopted to check the increase of this pest, but with 

 small results. Prof. Cope thought that as the Oxyrrhopus plumb eus was very 

 numerous in Venezuela and Brazil, and since it was very harmless and easily 

 procured, that its introduction in large numbers into Martinique, etc., would 

 be a simple matter, and one probably to be attended with good results in the 

 diminution, at least, of this enemy of agriculture. 



Mr. Thomas Meeiian called attention to the arrangements of some plants 

 for preventing fertilization through any other than insect agency, as dis- 

 covered by Darwin. The Salvia family of plants had the most elaborate 

 arrangements for insect agency, but it had been objected to Darwin's theory 

 that insects made no use of them. Bees bored holes through the tube from 

 the outside for the honey, and do not enter by the mouth of the flower, as 

 they ought. In the same way, in the Petunia, bees bore for honey from the 

 nnside. He had discovered that in these cases, where day insects failed to 

 make use of these apparatuses, fertilization was carried on by night moths, so 

 that the objections to Darwinism were removed. 



He also referred to the common sweet chestnut, as bearing two classes of 

 male flowers, only one of which probably aided in fertilization. The first , 

 class appeared ten days before the other, and are those which give whiteness 

 to the trees. They appear in the axils of the weak shoots. The female flowers 

 appear on the apices of strong shoots, according to his theory of the laws of 

 sex. The second class of male flowers appear at the ends of the vigorous 

 shoots bearing the female flowers. Whatever affects the vigor of the tree in- 

 terferes with the production of female but not, of male flowers, and this was 

 the reason why some seasons had short crops. 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. !)1 



Mr. J. H. Redfield remarked that, on a recent visit to the northern part of 

 the State of New York, he had noted the Botrychiumlunarioid.es and Botrychium 

 lanceolatum growing under circumstances that seemed to confirm the idea that 

 these species are really underground parasites, or epiphytic plants. More 

 than twenty plants were noticed scattered over a space of a mile in length, 

 and in every instance they were growing near the common blackberry (Rubut 

 mllosus), and every plant that was lifted had its roots in contact with the rool 

 of the blackberry. He referred to the peculiar character of the rool of tin 

 . genus, so different from that of other ferns, and so similar to that of some 

 /orchids, and to the fact that these species, so widely distributed, seem no- 

 where abundant, as favoring the idea of their epiphytic character. Mr. New- 

 man some years ago expressed the opinion that the British Botrychium lunaria 

 is an underground parasite, but Moore and others have doubted. Mr. II. de- 

 sired to call the attention of botanists to the conditions under which these and 

 other species of Botrychium may be found, with a view to determine the ques- 

 tion. 



Aug. 9th. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " On some new species of Fishes obtained by Prof. Orton from the 

 Maranon River, Upper Amazon and Napo Rivers." By Theo. Gill. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said very little had been written about the causes of 

 those bunches of branches often seen in trees, and called by the people 

 "crow's nests," and by botanists fasciations. Dr. Masters, in Teratology, briefly 

 refers to them, and refers to '-over-nutrition" the cause of their existence. 

 He had watched almost daily the past year one of Abies balsamea on his own 

 grounds. The branchlets were weak, the leaves were comparatively long and 

 slender, not distichously arranged, pale in color, deciduous, and many of the 

 branchlets died in the winter. All these were evidences of weak nutrition. 



He had found two trees of sassafras, apparently of the same age, growing 

 within a few yards of each other, but one with numerous fasciculated bunches. 

 In addition to the characters in the other case, here the fasciculated tree was 

 not as large as the other one. 



That weakness, not strength, was the cause, was also proved by facts from 

 an opposite direction, namely, the law of sex. He had already shown that a 

 low condition of vitality favored male, at the expense of the female organs. 

 He had found a large number of fasciculations in the common blackberry, and 

 in all instances, besides the yellowness and the other marks, there was a ten- 

 dency to abortion in the pistils, an increase in the number of petals, and a 

 development of foliaceous points to the usual calyx segments. So that his 

 law of sex, as well as the usual phenomena of weakened vitality, indicated 

 that it was this and not over-nutrition which caused fasciations in tree-. 



Aug. 16th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seven members present. 



Aug. 30th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Fifteen members present. 

 1870.J 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 



On some New Species of FISHES obtained by Prof. Orton from the Maranon, 

 or Upper Amazon, and Napo Rivers. 



BY THEODORE GILL, M. D, PH. D. 



In an expedition to the Andes of Ecquador and Peru, and thence across 

 the continent of South America, under the command of Prof. James Orton, a 

 considerable zoological collection was formed, and the fishes being submitted 

 to the writer for determination, the following appeared to be undescribed. Of 

 previously known species, the most noteworthy were Chalcinus nematurus 

 Kner, Gasteropelecus stellatus Kner, Pimeletropis lateralis Gill, and Cyclopium 

 Humbolrftii Swains. 



Subfamily TETRAGONOPTERIX^E. 



Tetragonopterus Ortonii Gill. 



[D. 11. A. 34. L. 1. 31. 



The height is contained about twice in the distance between the snout and 

 the median margin of the caudal, and the head about four times in tne same, 

 or three and a half in the length, exclusive of the caudal. The profile is con- 

 cave at the parietal region ; the interorbital area is transversely convex. The 

 diameter of the eye is contained two and a half times in the head's length. 

 The supramaxillary extends nearly to the vertical of the anterior margin of the 

 pupil. The dorsal is immediately behind the roots of the ventrals ; its height 

 equals about f of that of the body. The pectoral equals f the length of the 

 head ; the ventrals extend to the anal. 



The scapular spot is indistinct ; that at the base of the caudal well defined. 



Most nearly related to T. orbicularis Val. 



I dedicate this species to Prof. Orton. 



Astyanax Carolina Gill. 



D. 11. A. 26. V. 9. L. lat. 37 38 . 



5 



The height of the body enters 2| times in the length, exclusive of the cau- 

 dal ; the length of the head 3f ; the profile to the convex snout is rectilinear, 

 and the interorbital space scarcely arched ; the latter is as wide or rather 

 wiiler than the diameter of the orbit, and about a third of the head's length. 

 The maxillary ceases in front of the vertical of the front of the pupil, and 

 the end of the first suborbital. The dorsal commences considerably behind 

 the origin of the ventrals. The pectorals extend beyond the same point, and 

 the ventrals to the anus. The usual silver tinged lateral band, and humeral 

 and caudal spots exict, but are very faint. 



The species is represented by a single specimen, 4] inches long, taken in 

 the river Napo or Maranon and belongs to the same group as A. peruvianvs 

 (Tetragonopterus peruvianus M. T.), A. humilis (T. humilis Gthr.), A. scabrt- 

 pinnis (T. scabripinnis Jen.), A. maculatus (T. maculatus M. T. ex L.), A. Bre- 

 voortii (Poec. Brevoortii Gill), A. fasciatus (T. fasciatus Cuv.) A. microstoma (T. 

 microstoma Gthr.) and allies. 



Subfamily HYDROCYONIN'.E. 

 R^eboides Myersii Gill. 

 P. 10. V. 0. D. 12. A. 53. 

 The height enters two and a half times in the length, exclusive of the cau- 



[Aug. 






NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 93 



dal ; the head three and a half times. The eyes are large, the diameter being 

 contained only three and a half times in the length of the head. The supra- 

 maxillary ends under the posterior border of the pupil. The surface of the 

 intermaxillary has four larger equidistant conical teeth, directed forwards, 

 and a smaller one on each side and farther back, between the external and 

 internal ; the surface of the mandible has also four conical processes. The 

 dorsal commences nearly over the anus ; its height at least equals three fourths 

 of the head's length.* The anal commences nearly under the third dorsal 

 ray. The pectorals extend beyond the anus, and the ventrals, which are 

 inserted nearly midway between the axils of the pectorals and the origin of 

 the anal, extend to about the third ray of the latter. 



The scapular spot is very distinct ; the caudal indistinct. The fins, espe- 

 cially the pectorals, minutely punctuated between the rays. 



I dedicate this specimen to Mr. Philip V. Myers, a travelling companion of 

 Prof. Orton. in compliance with a request of the latter gentleman. 



Hydrolycus Copei, Gill. 



D. 11. A. 43. 



The height enters 2| times in the length (exclusive of the caudal), the length 

 of the head 3J; the profile between the nape and convex snout is moderately 

 incurved ; the interorbital space is slightly arched, and about equal to the 

 orbit, the snout, and a quarter of the head's length. The maxillary passes 

 considerably behind the vertical of the posterior border of the orbit. The 

 dorsal fin commences above the anus. The pectorals pass for a third of their 

 own length beyond the axillae of the ventrals, and the ventrals extend back- 

 wards to the third or fourth anal ray. 



The lateral spot is faint, and above the lateral line, just in advance of the 

 vertical of the anus. 



Four specimens, the largest of which is four and a quarter inches long, 

 were obtained in the Napo and Maranon rivers. 



I dedicate this species to my esteemed friend, Prof. Cope, in recognition of 

 his important contributions to herpetology and ichthyology. 



Subfamily SERRASALMONIN.E. 



Pygocentrus altus Gill. 



P. 17. V. 7. D. 17. A. 33. 



The height of the body is contained about 3 4-5ths in the length, exclusive 

 of the caudal ; the length of the head (measured from the prominent lower 

 jaw) about 2f. The back declines very slowly towards the nape ot the neck, 

 and thence is boldly decurved downwards. Snout obtuse, less than the diam- 

 eter of the eye. The diameter of the eye equals a fifth of the head's length, 

 and the interorbital width enters 2 in the same distance. The second sub- 

 orbital bone is separated from the preoperculum by a lunate naked area. 

 There are fourteen teeth in each jaw. The origin of the dorsal fin is nearer 

 the eye than the root of the caudal; its height is less than half the heads 

 length. The origin of the anal is under the last dorsal rays Ihe pectorals 

 scarcelv reach the bases of the ventrals ; the latter are two thirds as long as the 

 former' Gill-rakers of the outer branchial arch short and pointed like those 

 of the other arches. Abdomen armed with about twenty-seven serratures. 



The color is greyish, iridescent, and tinged with bhie.sh ; here is no well 

 defined scapular spot, but the region above the operculum is darker 



Nearly related to P. scapular is (Serrasalmo scapulans Gthr. v. p. dbaj. 



* The anterior dorsal rays are broken. 



1870.] 7 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Family SIL URIDJE. 



Subfamily PIMELODIN^E. 



Rhamdia dorsams Gill. 



B. 6. P. I. 8. V. 6. D. I. 6. A. 9. 



The body is moderalely slender; the height rather exceeding a fifth of the 

 length (exclusive of the caudal), while the height of the caudal peduncle is 

 about an eleventh. The head forms rather more than a fourth of the length, 

 and is about three fourths as wide as long, or more than twice as wide as the 

 interocular area ; the skin is moderately thick and smooth ; and the supraoc- 

 cipital spine is pointed and extends beyond the vertical of the bony opercular 

 margin. The eyes enter about eight limes in the head's length, are entirely 

 in the anterior half of the head, and are about equally distant from each other 

 and the middle of the upper jaw. The upper jaw projects but little beyond 

 the lower. The intermaxillary band of teeth is widest near the angles, where 

 it is truncated and obtusely angulated, and rather narrowest at the middle ; 

 the greatest width exceeds a sixth of the length. The intramandibular flaps 

 are considerably wider than the dentigerous bands. The maxillary barbels 

 extend to or beyond the middle of the ventrals ; the external mandibular 

 extend beyond, and the internal nearly to, a line with the bases of the pec- 

 torals. 



The dorsal fin is oblong, the longest rays equalling the distance from the 

 second to the axilla. The adipose fin is contained between three and four times in 

 the length. The pectorals terminate under the second or third dorsal ray, and 

 are not much larger than the ventrals. The porus axillaris is very minute. 



The color is dark brown. The dorsal has the usual broad clear basal band. 



SORUBIMICHTHYS ORTONI Gill. 



B. 14, 14 D. I. 6. A. 13. C. iii, I, 1, 8, I, iv. P. I. 10. V. 6. 



The head forms rather more than a third of the length, exclusive of the 

 caudal fin; the outline above is oblong, convex in front; the width is less 

 than half its length, and the width between the orbits less than a third ; the 

 hinder margin of the orbit is midway between the snout and opercular flap ; 

 the profile is perfectly straight. The dentigerous area of the upper jaw pro- 

 jects almost entirely beyond the lower jaw, and equals the chin or two diame- 

 ters of the orbit; it is uninterrupted, except behind at the middle, where 

 there is a broad but shallow triangular sinus; the palatal bands externally 

 describe half an ellipse, and are only interrupted at the middle by a linear 

 furrow widening backwards into a hastiform sinus ; their antero-internal an- 

 gles are, however, rounded. The maxillary barbels extend to the anal ; the 

 external mandibular terminate at some distance from the pectoral fins, ami 

 the internal are less than the width of the upper jaw. 



The dorsal spine is unarmed, or scarcely rough behind ; the adipose fin ob- 

 liquely truncated, shorter than the anal and nearly coterminal with it; the 

 pectorals terminate nearly under the last dorsal ray, and in advance of the 

 ventrals, than which they are considerably larger. The caudal is shorter than 

 the head, the lobes are acutely prolonged, and the upper lobe is somewhat 

 larger than the lower. 



The color is ashy with a broad silvery band bounded above by a narrower 

 blackish one, which is bifurcated in front, and below by a still narrower one, 

 or rather a series of partly confluent spots ; numerous spots, generally much 

 smaller than the eyes, cover the entire upper portions of the body and head, 

 as well as the dorsal, adipose, and pectoral fins. 



This species is among those described most closely related to S. Artedii 

 (Platystoma Artedii Gthr. = Mystus No. 6 Artedi), but the length of the bar- 

 bels and coloration at once distinguish it, and still more decided differences 



[Aug. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



may appear on re-examination of the latter, the dentition and other charac- 

 teristics not yet being known. 



SCIADES MARMORATUS Gill. 



B. 9. P. I. 10. V. I, 5. D. I, 10. A. 11. 



The head is little longer than broad. The diameter of the eye is contained 

 nine or ten times in the head's length. The vomerine teeth are in two oval 

 patches, nearly as large as the eye, and separated by a moderately narrow 

 interval ; the palatine patches are transversely oval, and smaller than the 

 pupil of the eye. The maxillary barbels extend beyond the base of the cau- 

 dal ; the external mandibular beyond the tips of the pectorals, and the inter- 

 nal beyond the bases of those fins. The dorsal fin is three fourths as high as 

 the head is long. The adipose fin is half as long again as the dorsal. 



The ground color is greyish, and forms meandering lines between the large 

 blackish spots by which it is covered. All the fins are similarly colored, hut 

 the spots at the base of the dorsal are fused into a band. The barbels are in- 

 distinctly anuulated. 



Closely allied to S. longibarbis (Arius? longibarbis Casllenau), but appears 

 to be distinguished by the longer adipose fin and the number of rays ; it may, 

 however, prove to be only a form of that species. Oastelnau has doubtless 

 overlooked the two small areas of teeth on the palate. 



Subfamily CETOPSIN^E. 



Cbtopsis ventralis Gill. 

 P. 10. V. 6. D. 1, 6. A. 29. 



The greatest height enters 4.} times in the length exclusive of the caudal, 

 and 5$ times inclusive thereof! The head enters 4 ; } times in the length 

 exclusive of the caudal fin, and 5| inclusive of it; its breadth does not ex- 

 ceed half its length. The gape is continued under the entire eye. The teeth 

 are in a villiform band on the lower as well as upper jaw, and on the vomer. 

 The ventrals are inserted entirely behind the vertical of the dorsal, and arc 

 connected together by a membrane which is, however, closely connected with 

 the abdomen along the middle, and is not free even at the margin ; the extre- 

 mities of the fins extend to or beyond the anus. The barbels are nearly equal 

 and about two or three times as long as the diameter of the eye. 



The color is greyish, darker above; the basal half of the dorsal is punctu- 

 lated with black. 



This species is most closely related to Cetopsis gobioides Kner, but is distin- 

 guished hy the more compressed head, posterior ventrals, and longer anal.* 



Subfamily TRACHELYOPTERIN^. 



Centromochlus Steindachneri Gill. 



P. I, 7, D. I. 5. A. 7. 



The greatest height equals two thirds of the length of the head, which itself 

 enters about 3| times in the total length, exclusive of the caudal. The eyes 

 are moderately large, the diameter equalling a quarter of the heads length. 

 The maxillary barbels are nearly coterminal with the elongated pectora, fins 

 The dorsal buckler behind is cordate, and its branches expand inwards and 

 extend as far back as the third soft ray. The height of the dorsal is not much 

 less than the head's length ; its spine is obsoletely serrated behind The pei - 

 torals equal nearly a third of the length, and do not reach the ventrals. 1 he 



* The number of anal rays is not given by Kner, but the figure represents twenty-two. 

 1870.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ventrals are inserted midway between the branchial apertures and the base of 

 the caudal. The caudal is forked. 



Color greyish, tinged with silvery on the sides. 



The species is eminently distinguished from its congeners by the form of 

 the dorsal buckler; it is most nearly related to C. megalops. P >: ?3R 



I dedicate this species to the meritorious ichthyologist and herpetologist 

 Dr. Franz Steindachner, as a slight recognition of his labors. 



Sept. 6th. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 



Seventeen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 "Notice of some Crustaceans of the Genus Libinia, with descrip- 

 tions of three new species." By T. Hale Streets. 



Prof. Leidy stated that he had just returned from a short visit to Boston 

 and Cambridge, and that while there be had had the opportunity of examining 

 the collection of Mastodon remains of the Warren museum and the Cambridge 

 University museum, which had so much interested him, that he thought a brief 

 notice of them would be interesting to the members. 



The private museum of the late Dr. Warren, now in possession of his heirs, 

 contains a magnificent skeleton of the American Mastodon [M. america?ms) , 

 the best preserved and most complete which has yet been found. It was dis- 

 covered in 1845, at Newburgh, N. Y. It is that of a mature male. The jaws 

 contain the last two molars on both sides, besides the tusks above, and one of 

 those below, together with the alveolus of that of the opposite side. This 

 skeleton forms the basis of Warren's book on the Mastodon, published in 

 1852. 



Besides the skeleton indicated, Dr. Warren's museum contains the skull of 

 another, a well preserved specimen, found in Orange Co., X. Y. It is even 

 larger than that of the skeleton, and also pertained to a mature male. The 

 jaws. contain on both sides the last two molars; and on one side the fourth 

 molar is also retained. The specimen is described and figured in Warren's 

 book on the Mastodon. (Pis. xvi, xviii, xix.) 



The Warren collection further contains a number of other remains of Mas- 

 todon, mainly fragments of jaws with teeth, isolated molars, and casts in 

 plaster of others. I may add it also contains a number of molars of the 

 American Elephant (Elephas americanus), together with many vertebne of the 

 Basilosaurus. 



The museum of the University of Cambridge contains the most interesting 

 series of remains of the American Mastodon which I have yet seen collected 

 together in one place. The most important of these are as follow: 



1. A skeleton, discovered, in 1844, in Warren Co., N. J. It pertams to a 

 mature female. The jaws contain the last two molars on both sides, and no 

 traces of inferior tusks remain. 



2. A complete skull of what I take to have been a female approaching 

 maturity. The jaws contain the fourth and fifth molars in functional position. 

 The sixth molar had not protruded and is visible within the jaws. On one 

 side of the lower jaw the third molar is retained but is nearly worn out. On 

 the other side and in the upper jaw the alveoli of the corresponding teeth are 

 partially obliterated. The incisive sockets of the lower jaw are likewise ob- 

 literated. (The specimen is represented in plates v, vi, of Warren's book on 

 the Mastodon.) 



3. Another complete skull of an animal younger than that of the preceding 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. H7 



specimen. The jaws contain the third and fourth molars in functional posi- 

 tion. The fifth molar had not protruded and is visible within the jaws. The 

 alveoli of the second molars are partially obliterated, and this is the case 

 also with the inferior incisive alveoli. (Represented in pis. iii, iv, xvii, of 

 Warren's book.) 



4. A lower jaw of a quite young animal. It contains the first, second, and 

 third molars in functional position and but little worn. The crown of the 

 first molar has two transverse divisions ; that of the second, two principal 

 transverse divisions and a less well developed or rudimental third division ; 

 that of the third molar has three divisions. Large sockets for incisive tusks 

 occupy the sides of the symphysis. (The specimen is represented in plate ii 

 of Dr. Warren's work.) 



An examination of many specimens of jaws and teeth of the American 

 Mastodon leads to a confirmation of the view that the dental series consists of 

 an incisive tusk and six molars on each side of both jaws. Whether the 

 usual upper tusks are preceded by a temporary pair has not been determined. 

 Small lower tusks appear to belong to the young of both sexes, but are lost 

 and their alveoli obliterated in the female, while one or both are frequently if 

 not usually retained permanently by the male. 



The molar teeth in the order of protrusion successively follow one another 

 from behind, but none of the series of six appear to have vertical successors. 



The young animal exhibits the anterior two and then three molars together 

 with tusks in both jaws, in functional position. As the third and fourth mo- 

 lars assume a functional position the first and second are shed, and as the fifth 

 molar protrudes the third is shed. With the functional existence of the fifth 

 and sixth molars the fourth is shed. Finally, in the old animal the sixth or 

 last molar may alone remain, though usually the fifth and sixth appear to 

 have been retained to the last. 



In the Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard College, Prof. Shaler 

 exhibited some Mastodon and other vertebrate remains, the results of his ex- 

 plorations at Big-bone-lick, Ky. Prof. Shaler incidentally informed me that 

 he had detected no evidences of glacial action in the latter region. He sup- 

 poses that the specimens of teeth and tusks, the wearing off at the sides of 

 which I formerly attributed to. glacial action, probably had been imbedded in 

 stiff clay in the pathway of Mastodons, to whose tread the wearing was due. 



The collection contained a multitude of remains of the Bison, but these 

 Prof. Shaler found more superficially than those of the Mastodon and Ele- 

 phant, and not associated with them. With the remains of the latter two 

 genera were also found those of Bootherium cavifrons, of which the collection 

 contains a skull without the face. There were also found with these some 

 remains of the Horse, and also the fragment of a lower jaw, which appeared 

 to me to belong to the existing Domestic Hog. 



In referring to Bootherium I may add that I had the opportunity of examin- 

 ing a skull of the recent Musk Ox, preserved in the Museum of the Natural 

 History Society of Boston, the first complete skull of the animal 1 have ever 

 seen, 'in this skull I observed that the lachrymal fossa in advance of the or- 

 bit is a shallow depression even less distinct than in the Sheep. In Boothe- 

 rium it is a deep, well defined hemispherical depression, being as different 

 from that of the recent Musk Ox as is that of the Deer. 



In the same museum, besides a few Mastodon remains, I remarked several 

 molars of the American Elephant, interesting from their size. One of them, 

 apparently a last upper molar, is from Brazos R., Texas, and is of the coarse 

 plated variety, corresponding with the Elephas columbi of Falconer. The 

 triturating surface is flat, not terraced, ten inches by four and three quarter 

 inches in extent, including the enveloping cementum, and also fourteen and a 

 half worn lobes or double plates. Behind, are four additional unworn and 

 less well developed lobes. The breadth of the tooth obliquely is thirteen 

 inches ; the depth posteriorly to the broken root, eight inches. 



1870.] 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Another molar is from St. Mark's River, Florida. It is an inferior one, and 

 of the coarse plated variety. The grinding surface is irregular or terraced, 

 eight and a half inches long, four inches wide; and it includes eleven lobes 

 or double plates. Five additional unworn lobes succeed. The breadth of the 

 tooth is ten- and one-half inches ; its depth to the root, eight inches. 



Taking advantage of my proximity, I went to Amherst, and spent a couple 

 of hours with Prof. C. N. Shepard in examining the Museum of Amherst 

 College. 



Prof. Shepard has recently collected together many interesting fossil remains 

 of vertebrata. Among these are a multitude of specimens obtained by his 

 son from St. Helena Island, and the famous Ashley River deposits of South 

 Carolina. Those from the latter locality consist mainly of Zeuglodonts, Ceta- 

 ceans and Fishes, but also include remains of Mastodon, the Elephant, and of 

 Equus major and E. fraternus. The St. Helena Island fossils consist of bones, 

 fragments of jaws and teeth of the Mastodon. Among them were noticed two 

 inferior tusks, which measured about ten inches in length and two inches in 

 diameter at the base. 



The same collection contained a large molar of the American Elephant, of 

 the coarse plated variety, from California. Some remains of Mastodon from 

 the latter place struck me from their peculiarity, and these Prof. Shepard was 

 so kind as to loan to me for examination and description. 



One of the specimens, which lies on the table, is the fragment of a tusk 

 from " Dry Creek," "Stanislaus Co., California. It indicates a species totally 

 differeut from the American Mastodon, and in its peculiarities exhibits a re- 

 lationship with the Mastodon angustidens of the middle tertiary period of Eu- 

 rope. The fragment is six inches in length, is slightly curved in two direc- 

 tions, and in transverse section is ovate with the anterior pole acute. The 

 pulp cavity, opening half the diameter at the broken base of the specimen, 

 extends about half its length to the end. The convex side of the tusk pos- 

 sesses, as in Mastodo?i angustidens, a broad band of enamel, which reaches from 

 the acute edge more than two-thirds the depth of the surface. The enamel is 

 somewhat rugose and is two-thirds of a line thick. At one spot, towards the 

 smaller end of the fragment, it has been irregularly worn through for the ex- 

 tent of about an inch and a half. The opposite side of the specimen, from 

 the acute edge, has been worn off to an extent about equal to two-fifths of the 

 surface. The broken ends of the fragment exhibit very conspicuously the 

 beautiful arrangement of decussating curved lines so characteristic of the 

 ivory in the tusks of the great proboscidians. 



The vertical diameter of the base of the fragment is 28 lines, the transverse 

 diameter 19 lines ; the vertical diameter at the opposite end is 22 lines, the 

 transverse diameter 16 lines. The entire length of the tusk appears to have 

 been less than two feet. 



The question arises as to what species the tusk fragment shall be attributed. 

 It certainly does not belong to the common American Mastodon, nor is it pro- 

 bable that it belonged to the pliocene Mastodon mirificus. May it probably per- 

 tain to the hardly known Mastodon obscurus ? In the present uncertainty I Mould 

 look on the specimen as characteristic of a peculiar species, allied to the M. 

 angustidens of Europe. For the name of the species I would propose that of 

 Mastodon Shepardi, in honor of Prof. C. N. Shepard, whose name has so long- 

 been identified with the interests of natural history. 



The second specimen, exhibited to the members, consists of a fragment of a 

 lower jaw containing the last molar tooth, and was discovered in Contra Costa 

 county, California. No information in regard to the age of the deposit, or 

 the character of the locality in which the fossil was found, accompanies it. 

 The bone is friable, and measures, below the position of the tooth, five and a 

 half inches in depth. Attached to the fossil there is a portion of soft gray 

 rock, part of the matrix in which it has been imbedded. The tooth is per- 

 fect and well preserved. It has the same general form and constitution as 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



the corresponding tooth of the American Mastodon, but is considerably 

 smaller. It bears sufficient resemblance to the plaster cast (represented in 

 fig. 14, pi. xxvii., of " The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Ne- 

 braska, &c,") of a tooth, the original of which is lost, from a miocene forma- 

 tion of Maryland, to be viewed as pertaining to the same species. This I had 

 named Mastodon obscurus. 



The crown of the tooth consists of four transverse divisions together with 

 the merest trace of a heel. As in the cast of the Maryland tooth, the inner 

 lobes of the crown of the California tooth are more mammillary, and less 

 angular than in M. Americanos. The outer lobes, likewise as in the Maryland 

 tooth, have better developed offsets fore and aft internally than in the latter, 

 giving rise to a greater degree of obstruction of the transverse vallies of the 

 crown than in the American Mastodon. The fourth division of the crown is 

 proportionately less well developed, in comparison with those in advance, 

 than in the latter, agreeing also in this respect with the Maryland tooth. The 

 outer lobe of this division is formed of a pair of connate mammillary tuber- 

 cles, as in the latter, but the tubercles are more equally developed. The in- 

 ner lobe is a single mammillary eminence not more than half the elevation 

 of the outer lobe. In the Maryland tooth, the corresponding lobe resembles 

 the outer one, consisting of a connate pair of tubercles as well developed as 

 in the outer lobe. The heel in the California tooth, as in the Maryland tooth, 

 is formed by a short mammillary eminence occupying the angular space pos- 

 teriorly of'the lobes of the fourth division of the crown. A basal ridge 

 is better developed externallv in the California than in the Maryland tooth. _ 

 Comparative measurements of the California tooth, with the cast of the 

 Maryland tooth, and one of the Mastodon americanus are as follows : 



California 

 tooth. 



4 lines. 

 9 lines. 

 2 lines. 



Maryland 

 tooth. 



in. 

 in. 

 in. 



4 lines.* 

 9 lines. 

 2 lines. 



Mastodon 

 americanus. 



in. 3 lines. 

 in. 4 lines. 



in. lines. 



Fore and aft diameter of the 

 crown of the last molar toothJ6 in 



Transverse diameter of do 2 in 



Depth of do. internally 12 in 



It is not improbable that the California tooth may have pertained to the 

 same species as the fragment of tusk previously aoticed, and, perhaps these, 

 together with the Maryland tooth, and others previously referred to Mastodon 

 obscurus may likewise belong to the same animal. The positive determina- 

 tion of this question must be left for the discovery of additional material to 

 throw light on the relationship of the different specimens which have been 

 thus far presented to our notice. 



Sept. 13th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 



" On the flowers of Aralia spinosa and Hedera helix. Uy Inos. 

 Meehan. 



Sept. 20th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty-three members present. ^ 



Partially estimated, as the specimen is imperfect at its fore part. 



1870.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Prof. Lkidy, exhibited the fragment of a jaw of a Crocodile, recently sent 

 to him for examination by Prof. F. V. Hayden, now engaged in geological ex- 

 ploration of part of our western territories. The specimen, together with a 

 multitude of small fragments of bones, scales, and teeth of ganoid and other 

 fishes, was found at the junction of the Big Sandy and Green River. 



The fragment from the fore part of the jaw indicates an animal about the 

 size of the Alligator of the Mississippi, and apparently a head of nearly the 

 same form. The external surface of the jaw is exceedingly rough and pitted. 

 Two entire teeth, and the remains of two others are retained in the specimen. 

 The larger of the perfect teeth, apparently, holding the position correspond- 

 ing with a canine, has a blunt conical crown strongly carinated fore and aft, 

 and with the enamel finely rugose. The length of the crown is 8 lines; its diame- 

 ter antero-posteriorly 7 lines ; and transversely 6^ lines. The specimen per- 

 tains to an extinct species, probably different from any heretofore indicated. 

 The character of the formation from which it was obtained and its geological 

 age I have not learned. 



I propose to dedicate the species to Mr. Henry W. Elliott, a young and able 

 artist, attendant on Prof. Hayden's expedition, with the name of Crocodilus 

 Elliotti. 



Prof. Leidy stated that during the last summer he had made some further 

 observations on Urnatella, a genus of ciliated polyps of the family Pedicelli- 

 nidae, discovered by him some years ago (Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc. 1851, 321; 1854, 191) 

 in the Schuylkill River. It is found abundantly below the dam at Fairmount, 

 adhering to stones and rocks, on the sides and under part not in contact with 

 the ground. Occasionally it is observed attached to the shell of the living 

 JJnio complanatus, and Melania virgi?iica, and less frequently to the stem of 

 Schollera graminea and the leaves of Vallisneria spiralis. In the locality named, 

 on the rocks, there may be observed, in association with Urnatella, the follow- 

 ing animals : Spongilla fragilis ; Limnias ccratophylli, usually abundant and in 

 compound bunches; Cotharnia pusilla, parasitic on Urnatella and Limnias; 

 Hydra carnea, Ag., Paludicella elongata, Plumatella vesicularis : and the worm 

 Manayunkia speciosa, etc. 



Unlike the marine genera of Pedicellinidas, the polyp stocks of Urnatella 

 are erect or semi-erect, and not prostrate or creeping attached along the sur- 

 face of bodies. Urnatella starts by a thin membranous disk or expansion 

 tightly adherent to the point of support. Usually two stems or stocks (occa- 

 sionally three or only one,) start from the same disk, and diverge from each 

 other in a gentle curve. The stems may be seen from a simple pedicle with- 

 out division, to a series of eleven divisions or segments, exclusive of the 

 polyp head. A colony of Urnatella recalls to mind a miniature patch of 

 plants in a flower garden. The smallest polyps are translucent whitish or 

 nearly colorless ; the largest are less than two lines long, and alternately 

 white and blackish or brownish. When disturbed the polyps retract their 

 arms, hang their heads, and bend downward, so that the heads touch the basis 

 of support, or the stems even become somewhat involute. Voluntarily the 

 polyps are often observed abruptly to move from one side to the other in the 

 most singular manner, as if wearied of remaining too long in the same posi- 

 tion. In these movements the stems bend the entire length, but there is no 

 contraction or shortening. In attempting to detach a polyp, the heads sud- 

 denly bend downward in such a manner as if the violence elicited a feeling of 

 pain in the animal. 



The terminal two or three segments of the parent stems usually give off a 

 branch on each side, and this branch sometimes gives off a second. The 

 branches always consist of a pedicle or single joint supporting a polyp head. 



In a polyp stock of more than two divisions, independent of the polyp head, 

 the additional segments are urn shaped. The penultimate segment is barrel 

 shaped ; the last one cylindrical, or clavatc. 



The polyp heads are provided with from a dozen to sixteen ciliated arms. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



The internal structure of the polyps including that of the stems, bears a re- 

 semblance to that of Pedicellina, and will be more particularly described in u 

 memoir preparing on the animal. 



The youngest independent polyp stems of Urnatella consist of a simple 

 cylindrical pedicle starting from the disk of attachment to the rock, and sup- 

 porting a single polyp head. The pedicle elongates and divides into two seg- 

 ments. The ultimate segment grows in length and again divides; and in this 

 manner all the segments are produced. After the production of three seg- 

 ments, the antepenultimate segment assumes the urn form. Budding com- 

 mences from the second and third segments after their production, and from 

 the succeeding segments, but not usually from the first segment. The buds 

 originate from opposite sides of the base of the segments, aud form branches 

 of a single segment with a polyp head. The pedicle of these branches also 

 frequently gives off a bud, which forms a secondary branch of the same kind 

 as the primary ones. 



In the longer Urnatella stocks, branches are usually observed only from the 

 one two or three terminal segments. In the posterior urn-shaped segments, 

 in the position in which branches emanate in the terminal segments, cup- 

 shaped processes are observed. These were formerly mistaken for buds, hut 

 evidently result from the dehiscence or separation of branches, which leave 

 the parent stock to establish colonies elsewhere. Though I have not observed 

 this separation take place in Urnatella, yet all the points of structure appear 

 to indicate that it actually takes place in the manner intimated. 



It thus appears that the first step towards the multiplication of Urnatella 

 is the segmentation of its stem. The segments put forth buds which develop 

 polyps, and these then separate from the parent stock to settle elsewhere, and 

 become the source of other series of polyps. 



The ultimate history of the segmented polyp stock of Urnatella 1 have not 

 ascertained. The stocks which I have preserved in an aquarium for several 

 months finally lose their terminal polyps. Late in the season, also, all the 

 polyp stocks which I could obtain on the river shore within the reach of my 

 arm, at low tide, were deprived of their terminal folyps. The destruction of 

 these, however, I have suspected to have been due to their having been un- 

 covered in lower tides earlier in the season. I hope yet to be able to deter- 

 mine this question in the course of the next few weeks. 



It has occurred to me that the segmented stems of Urnatella after the derm 

 of the polyps, remained through the winter with little obvious change, and 

 that in the following season, the segments served as reproductive bodies, in 

 the same manner as the statoblasts in Plumatellidae and their allies. This 

 view is, however, not confirmed by specimens retained in the aquarium, and 

 those collected on the edge of the river which had lost their polyps. 



In relation to the production of ova, or the reproduction of Urnatella 

 through sexual agency I have vet learned nothing. 



Among the animals mentioned, as found in association with Urnatella, is 

 the singular Annelide, Manayunkia speciosa, discovered by me some years ago, 

 (Proc A N S 1858, 90.) The worm is closely allied to the marine genus 

 Fabricia, and like it, lives in tubes constructed of mud. It is abundant m the 

 localitv indicated. Individuals of about two lines in length, are usually seen in 

 a state'of division near the middle into two The anterior division of the body 

 consists of five bristle-bearing annul! in addition to the head The posterior 

 division consists of six bristle-bearing annuli in addition to the partially de- 

 veloped head. The anterior head is provided with about thirty-six ciliated 

 tentacnli supported on four lobes. It is also furnished with a pair of ^ : 

 besides which the tentacle-bearing lobes exhibit a number o pigmentary 

 spots, apparently of the nature of eyes. No eyes exist in the tail of Mana- 

 yunkia they do in Fabricia. The blood is green and is pumped intermit- 

 tently into a large vessel occupying one tentacle on each side of the middle 

 of the head. 



1870.J 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



1 have studied the development of Manayunkia, which will be fully de- 

 described iu a future memoir on the animal. Curiously enough the develop- 

 ment of the young takes place within the tube of the parent, and the young 

 remain in this position for a considerable time after their development. Thus 

 1 have obtained the young from the tube of the parent, after it was one-third 

 of a line in length, and consisted of ten annuli, including the head, from 

 which projected ten tentacles. 



Mil. Thomas Meehan said that last year he had called the attention of the 

 Academy to the fact that Gymnocladus and some other plants had a series of 

 buds, not in the usual order of Phyllotaxis, accordant with the leaves, as we 

 have believed axillary buds ought to be ; but in a direct line, one above an- 

 other ; and that in these cases the upper bud, the one the farthest removed 

 from the axil, was the strongest bud. He had overlooked the fact long known 

 to botanists, until pointed out by Dr. Engelman, that Lonicera had this longi- 

 tudinal string of buds ; but in this case the largest bud was the one nearest 

 the axil. He had since noted that these buds all followed the same law in 

 this, that it was the large buds which had a flower-producing character, while 

 the small ones were those which continued the axial growth. 



By the help of this last observation he was now able to explain some facts 

 in Solanaceous plants which he believed had not hitherto been understood. It 

 was 'well known that many of these had a habit of producing their flower 

 scapes at varying positions between the nodes, and not at the nodes, as is usual 

 with most flowering plants. He exhibited specimens of the common Cherry 

 Tomato, in which a few of the flower clusters sprang apparently opposite to 

 a node, but the majority were at least one-fourth of the way down to the node 

 below ; also other species of the genus, in which the flower peduncle pushed 

 out almost down to the lower axil. This was especially the case in some Egg 

 plants, wherein the leaf axil, the axillary bud, and the bud producing the 

 flower peduncle, were closely together in a direct line, as in Gymnocladus, be- 

 fore noted. The point to which he wished the particular attention of the 

 members was that this intern odular flower bud really belonged to the system 

 of buds apparently originating at the node below. 



He then showed that the flowering character of Solarium had a numerical 

 law of its own. Every third node produced a flower spike or cluster. 

 The node next following the flower had barely the rudiment of an axillary 

 bud; the second one bad a stronger bud; the third had a bud which in the 

 Tomato and Eggplant pushed again into axillary growth, and had the extra 

 bud beyond, before noted the flowering one. Other Solanaceous plants had 

 similar characters, which, unless we remembered what we had learned in 

 these common Solanums, we might not understand. For instance, in Nycte- 

 rium viola ceum the two nodes between the flowering one approached very close 

 together, so as to appear nearly opposite, but still one axillary bud stronger 

 than the other. In Datura all three nodes approached and formed a sort of 

 fascicle with the flower proceeding from the irregular centre of the mass. 



He now exhibited some specimens of the common Poke weed, Phytolacca 

 decandra, and showed that the inflorescence was exactly on the same law. 

 The flower raceme only appeared at every third node, and sometimes was as 

 much as a quarter of an inch above the node. It was directly in a line with 

 the lower bud, as in the cases of Gymnocladus, Lonicera, Solanum, &c, and there 

 was no difficulty in assuming that the flower spike had really belonged to the 

 lower system, just as in the other cases. The ratio of vigor in the axillary 

 buds was just the same. The leaf opposite or near by the raceme had scarcely 

 any axillary bud; the next stronger; the next strong enough to push into a 

 secondary axillary growth ; and then the flower above this. In this we saw 

 Phytolacca to have the same characters as Solanaceous plants. The seeds of 

 Phytolacca were of very similar structure to Solanum, and it had many other 

 characters in common. He was not prepared to speak positively without fur- 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. LOS 



ther investigation, but thought it quite likely, in spite of the hypogynouB 

 flower, Phytolacca would be found more nearly related to Solamicea- than to 

 Uhenopodiaceee, near which it was now placed. 



He then exhibited some shoots of Grape Vine, and said that Dr. Engelman 

 had pointed out, when at the Academy last year, that there was some numeri- 

 cal order in the tendrils of grape vines. In the specimen he exhibited every 

 third node had no tendril; but he had- seen some grapevines in which as 

 many as eight nodes with tendrils had followed one another. In the mature 

 wood, however, those without tendrils perfected the strongest buds. But he 

 had found in the allied genus Ampelopsis a nearly regular system of buds and 

 tendrils. In A. hederacea, the common Virginia or five fingered creeper, the 

 strong shoots running up a wall or tree had at every third node a strong axil- 

 lary bud, without any tendril; while the two intervening nodes had tendrils 

 without axillary buds. Occasionally, but very rarely, two successive nodes 

 would have axillary buds, in which case the lower one would be smaller, and 

 have also a small tendril on the opposite side. Ampelopsis Vietchii had the 

 same character. He had attempted to propagate this by using nodes from 

 which the tendrils pushed, as single bud cuttings, but failed to get any devel- 

 opment from the axils. He believed they had not a trace of a bud in even 

 the most rudimentary state. It had been said in Darwin's paper on motion in 

 tendrils that the gland on the end of the tendril did not develop itself until it 

 approached the object it was to cling to. In Ampelopsis Vietchii, they developed 

 before this, in the shape of small globes, looking like rudiments of the same 

 flower which ultimately appeared. In fact tendrils here were incipient flower 

 branches, as any one could see by tracing the common Ampelopsis It* ii raeea up 

 to its final flowering condition, when, the axial growth ending in a terminal 

 bud, instead of the usual lateral tendril, it seemed to erect itself and bear 

 flowers. It would seem as if it was only by the elongation of the axis, demand- 

 ing and drawing to itself nutriment which would otherwise go into the ten- 

 dril, which made it a tendril, and not a flower shoot. 



He did not, however, intend at this time to attempt any explanation of these 

 series of observations. He thought there was nothing in any known law of 

 Phyllotaxis which would explain them ; and that by following them up mat- 

 ters of much interest to botany might be evolved. But, as he might have 

 more to say about it some day, and winter was approaching, he thought to 

 call the attention of the Academy to the facts, so that those interested might 

 examine them for themselves before the frost destroyed the specimens. 



The death of Mr. Wm. P. Wilstach was announced. 



Sept. 21th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty- one members present. 



The report of a Committee appointed to draft resolutions regard- 

 ing the death of the late Wm. P. Wilstach was received, and the 

 following Resolutions adopted : 



The death of William P. Wilstach, at Saratoga, Sept. 17, 1870, has been 

 announced to the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Mr. Wilstach during his connection of ten years with this institution has 

 been distinguished among its members by his liberal, intelligent and prompt 

 encouragement of everv enterprise calculated to increase and diffuse knowl- 

 edge of the Natural Sciences. Besides many donations at different times, he 

 <rave a thousand dollars towards the publication of the last volume of the 

 Academy's Journal ; a thousand dollars to the building fund, and m addition 

 he made a conditional subscription of five thousand dollars to the same fund 

 These facts are cited in evidence of Mr. Wilstach's interest in the progress or 



1870.] 




104 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Science and culture ; they are among the reasons why the Academy recog- 

 nizes in his death the loss of a liberal patron, a judicious counsellor and an 

 agreeable associate. 



Resolved, That this expression of the Academy's appreciation of Mr. Wil- 

 stach's worth be communicated to his widow and family, in token of its sym- 

 pathy with their bereavement. 



W. S. W. RuSCHENBERttER, 



Jos. Leidy, 

 (Signed) Wm. S. Yaox. 



S. B. Howell, Rec. Sec. 



The following gentlemen were elected members of the Academy : 

 Green Smith, Thos. Stewardson, H. Weir Workman, W. B. Rogers, 

 Thos. G. Gentry, Wm. H. Pan coast, M. D. 



The following were elected correspondents : Prof. Igino Cocchi, of 

 Florence, Italy ; Prof. John Jas. Stevenson, Ph. D., of Morgantown, 

 W. Va. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 orderded to be published : 



Notice of some Crustacea of the Genus LIBINIA, with descriptions of four 



new Species. 

 BY T. HALE STREETS. 



Much uncertainty has existed with regard to the identity of certain species 

 belonging to the genus Libinia. Libinia dubia, ever since it was first estab- 

 lished by Milne Edwards, has been regarded as a doubtful species. In the 

 description of it by Edwards, he states that it resembles L. canaliculata very 

 much, and that it is not improbable that it is the young of that species. Nat- 

 uralists in this branch of science down to the present time appear to have 

 accepted this statement as the truth. 



De Kay, in his Natural History of New York, states that the " younger indi- 

 viduals, 1 4 in. in length, are more pyriform in shape, are entirely covered with 

 a dense, downy hair, and the spines are not so prominent as in the adult. In 

 this state I suppose it to be the L. dubia of Edwards." 



Gibbes in an article in the Proceedings of the American Association for 

 1850, regards the two species as distinct, but says that no absolute characters 

 can be indicated by which they may be separated. 



I do not know how to account for this prevailing ignorance, as the charac- 

 ters existing, separating the two species, are so plain. 



Libinia dubia, Edwards. His. Nat. des Crust, vol. 1, p. 300, pi. 14, fig. 2. 



L. dislincta, Guerin. 



Besides the characters usually given as distinguishing this species, the fol- 

 lowing may be observed, and they will be found to be highly characteristic. 



In the median line of the body, couuting backward from the depression sep- 

 arating the gastric and genital regions, there is a row of four spines ; one on 

 the genital region, two on the cardiac and one on the intestinal. One small 

 spine on the posterior part of the gastric region in the median line, and five 

 arranged transversely on the anterior part of the same region. Three prom- 

 inent spines on the branchial region independently of those on the lateral 

 margin. The hepatic region is usually devoid of spines or tubercles ; sometimes 

 there is a very small, sharp one on each side, or, again, it may be present on 

 one side and absent on the other. There is never more than one on a side. 

 The regions are very distinctly marked out. 



Rostrum prominent. Its bifurcated extremity diverging, and directed near- 

 ly horizontally. The cleft deep. 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Habitat. Common species of the Southern Atlantic coast. Very common 

 in the Delaware Bay. In the Academy's collection are four specimens from 

 the coast of Long Island ; and one from West Africa, by Duchaillu. 



Libinia canaliculata, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sc. vol. 1, p. 77, pi. 4, fig. i, 



L. emarginata, Leach. 



In the median line of the body, counting backward from the depression sep- 

 arating the stomach from the genital region, there is a row of five spines ; one 

 in the genital region, two in the cardiac and two in the intestinal. On the 

 gastric region there is a longitudinal row of four spines. The second one 

 counting from behind forward is generally double. The anterior one is situ- 

 ated in front of the transverse row, which contains four spines or tubercles 

 two on each side. The hepatic region always presents more than one spinej 

 usually three, sometimes more ; sometimes three on one side and two on the 

 other. One large spine situated on the posterior part of the branchial region 

 on a line with the lower spine on the intestinal region, another smaller" one 

 intervening between. The whole surface of the carapax studded over with 

 numerous spines and tubercles arranged more or less regularly. The spiues 

 on the lateral margin not as prominent as in L. dubia, but of the same num- 

 ber. 



The cleft of the bifurcated extremity of the rostrum is very shallow. The 

 teeth of the rostrum not on the same plane as in L. dubia, they present a di- 

 rection downward. In the largest specimens the anterior extremity is consid- 

 erably hooked. 



The characters here enumerated as distinguishing L. canaliculata will be 

 found to hold good through all variations of size in those that are no more 

 than an inch in length, as well as in those that are from four to five inches 

 long, the latter being the largest of the kind that I have ever seen. 



Habitat. Common to the North Atlantic coast, but extends down to the West 

 Indies. 



Libinia affinis, Randell. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sc. vol. VIII, p. 107. 



Gibbes says of this species that it "so closely resembles L. dubia, that if 

 from the Atlantic coast, I should not regard it as different, but as it comes 

 from Upper California I cannot venture to pronounce it the same." 



The author here quoted undoubtedly made a mistake when he said that L.ajfinis 

 closely resembles L. dubia. Stimpson approached the truth more nearly when 

 he stated that "it is very closely allied to L. canaliculata." It is undoubtedly 

 nothing more than the young of canaliculata. That it is so will be evident to 

 any one who will take ihe trouble to compare them closely. It agrees with 

 L. canaliculata in every respect excepting size. 



Libinia subspinosa, Streets, n. s. 



Carapax pyriform. Regions distinct. Spines and tubercles few. Three 

 small tubercles arranged transversely on the anterior portion of the gastric 

 region, one on the median line and one on each side. On the posterior part 

 of the stomach, in the usual situation of a spine or tubercle, there is a slight 

 elevation. Genital region compressed from before backward. Two spines on 

 the cardiac region, and one, rather large, on the intestinal region. Five 

 spines on the lateral margin of the branchial region ; the posterior one large. 

 On the upper portion of the same region, near the superior border, are two 

 more, arranged in a line from before backward. Hepatic region devoid of 

 spines, smooth. Just beneath this region, on the antero-lateral border, are 

 two spines, the anterior one large. 



Rostrum prominent; teeth short and their apices directed forward and 

 toward each other. A short obtuse spine projecting over the inner canthus 

 of the eye. On the inferior border of the orbit are two small tubercles. Ex- 

 ternal antennae cylindrical. 



Anterior pair of feet shorter than the second. The fingers come in contact 



1870.] 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



along half the extent of their denticulated margins. The second pair of feet 

 about the same length as the carapax, rostrum included. 



The surface covered with close, short hair. Length of the body to the tip 

 of the rostrum one inch and a half. 



Habitat. Chili. 



(Cabinet Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci.) 



Libinia rhomboidea, Streets, n. s. 



Carapax nearly circular. Regions distinct ; those in the median line of 

 the body flattened. Six small but sharp spiues on the gastric region ; five ar- 

 ranged transversely on the anterior part. The two outer ones and the middle 

 are larger, and are placed in a direct line with one another ; the two inter- 

 vening ones are smaller, and are situated a little in front of the others. One 

 spine situated on the posterior part of the stomach. All the spines on the 

 central regions small. Genital region quadrilateral and bearing a small spine. 

 One on the cardiac region and one on the intestinal. On the posterior part of 

 the cardiac region is an elevation which presents a depression in its summit. 

 Four large and sharp spines on the branchial region independently of those 

 on the lateral margin. These are placed so as to inclose a rhomboidal-shaped 

 figure between them. A prominent spine on the hepatic region ; five on the 

 lateral margin. These with the one on the hepatic region form nearly half a 

 circle. Below the lateral row anteriorly are two prominent spines. 



A prominent spine above the icftier canthus of the eye ; a small one at the 

 external canthus. External antennae cylindrical. A spine situated to the 

 outer side of them, and one beneath directed downward. 



Rostrum not so broad as in L. dubia, and its bifurcation less divergent, the 

 teeth being directed nearly horizontally forward. Anterior pair of feet short 

 and granular; a short spine on the lower portion of the arm. Second pair of 

 feet nearly one and a half times as long as the body. Length of the body 

 three inches and a half. 



Habitat. East Indies. 



(Cabinet Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci.) 



In the Academy's collection is a single specimen, which very much resem- 

 bles the preceding, and in the absence of any others of the same kind to con- 

 firm the characters, I will not venture to call it a new species. The following 

 are the chief points of difference. The regions in the median line of the body 

 less depressed. The transverse row of spines on the anterior portion of the 

 gastric region are arranged somewhat differently. The two lateral ones on 

 each side are placed in a direct line, while the middle one is situated a little 

 posteriorly. The bifurcation of the rostrum is more divergent and the teeth 

 are inflated to their tips. Second pair of feet but little longer than the body. 

 Length of the body two inches and four-fifths. 



Habitat. West Indies. 



If this should prove a new species, I propose for it the name of Libinia in- 

 flat a. 



Chionoecetes Chilensis, Streets, n. s. 



Body very much depressed, flattened on top ; nearly as broad as long. Pos- 

 terior border rounded; broad anteriorly. Anterior and middle portions of 

 the carapax covered with small wart-like prominences, which are depressed. 

 These terminate in a more or less well-defined line drawn transversely through 

 the centre of the cardiac region. All that portion of the surface not covered 

 with prominences, granular. Regions not very distinct; gastric region some- 

 what triangular. External angle of the orbit projecting. Rostrum very 

 short, and flattened. Eyes large, of a brown color with black spots. 



Anterior pair of feet but little longer than the body. Internal and external 

 borders of the under surface of the arm minutely spinous. These as well as 

 the other feet granular. Fingers long and slender, more than half the length 



[Sept. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



of the whole hand ; denticulated along the whole length of their approximated 

 margins. The third article of the second pair of feet flattened ; that of the 

 third pair less so The same article of the fourth pair nearly cylindrical ; 

 that of the fifth pair cylindrical. This article is long, straight and inflated : 

 largest diameter in the middle, gradually tapering anteriorly; no enlargement 

 at the nodes. Hair on the body very short, scarcely discernable. Length of 

 body about one inch. 



This species can very readily be distinguished from Pdoplastus (Chionoecetes) 

 Pallasii, Gerstsecker. Unlike this the upper surfaces of the tibia; are not cov- 

 ered with short spines, and the double row of granules is wanting on the 

 tarsi. 



C. Chilensis may be distinguished from C. Behringianus, Stimpson, by the 

 wart-like prominences not increasing in acuteness anteriorly and at the sides, 

 except at the inferior antero-lateral margin. Here, instead of there being 

 fourteen small bifid spines as in C. Behringianus, there are but eleven or twelve ; 

 the first five or six only being of any size. The third articles granular below 

 as well as above. Only the inferior angles of the arms of the first pair of 

 feet are muricated. 



Habitat. Chili. 



(Cabinet Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci.) 



Huenia bifcrcata, Streets, n. s. 



Carapax smooth, elongated, narrowing in front. Antero-lateral margins 

 acute. On the gastric region three low tubercles arranged in a triangular 

 form with the base of the triangle directed forward. A low tubercle on the 

 cardiac region. The antero-lateral borders produced into sharp processes, di- 

 rected forward, outward and slightly upward from the base of tbe rostrum. 

 Rather broad lateral projections at the junction of the antero-lateral and pos- 

 tero-lateral borders, directed somewhat upward. These projections present 

 two teeth at their extremities, separated by a concave interval. Postero-lat- 

 eral borders rounded. Posterior border projecting backward lip-like, slightly 

 everted on each side. 



Rostrum about two-tenths of an inch in length; bifurcated at its point; 

 flattened horizontally at the anterior extremity, which is on a lower plane 

 than the base. Upper surface covered with hooked hairs. Under surface of 

 the rostrum concave.. < 



Eyes small, slightly projecting from under the lateral borders of the cara- 

 pax. -External antennae slender and completely concealed under the anterior 

 prolongation. Basal article cylindrical, slightly clubbed at its anterior ex- 

 tremity ; the second article more than half the length of the first ; the third 

 very delicate. 



Anterior pair of feet about the same length as the carapax. On the distal 

 extremity of the upper surface of the third article is a small tooth directed 

 forward. Second pair of feet longer than the first pair, about one inch in 

 length. The following feet considerably shorter, and each presents a spine at 

 about the middle of the under surface of the fifth article. Carapax, rostrum 

 included, nine-tenths of an inch in length. 



Habitat. New Zealand. 



(Cabinet Phila. Acad. Nat. Sci.) 



On the Flowers of ARALIA SPINOSA, L., and HEDERA HELIX, L. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The study of Aralia spinom, />., affords some interesting facts which do not 

 seem to have attracted the attention of other observers. 



In Dr. Gray's indispensable .Manual of Botany, it is said to be more or 

 less polygamous." I have had many specimens under my daily observation 



1870.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



this season, from the earliest opening till the last blossom appeared, and find 

 that it is much more nearly monoecious than the above quotation would imply. 



There are three different sets of flowers corresponding to the thrice com- 

 pounded branchlets of the large panicle. When the flower scape elongates, it 

 seems suddenly arrested at a given point, and a very strong umbel of female 

 flowers appears at the apex. A great number of secondary branches appear 

 along this main one ; and they also suddenly terminate each with an umbel 

 of female flowers. From these secondary branches a third series appear, and 

 these flowers are well filled with anthers that are abundautly polleniferous. 

 The female organs of these flowers of the third class, are, however, defective, 

 as only a few bear capsules, and in these, a large portion of the seeds have no 

 ovules. The polygamous character is confined to this third series of flower, 

 the first two having purely pistillate blossoms. In these there do not seem 

 to be the rudiments of stamens. 



The most remarkable part of this process of development is, that the whole 

 of this first series of female flowers should open so long before the male 

 ones come, that they fall unfertilized. Most part of the second series also 

 fall, and the crop of seeds is mainly made up of a few of the last opening ones 

 of the section, and the comparatively few hermaphrodite ones which are 

 found in those of the third class. It is a matter for curious speculation what 

 special benefit it can be to the plant to spend so much force on the produc- 

 tion of female flowers too early to mature, and then producing such an im- 

 mense mass of pollen to go utterly to waste. 



It may not be amis to note, that in the common carrot the earlier strong- 

 umbels have often a male flower in the center; and that while the usual 

 flowers are of a pure white, this one is of a crimson color. In the central 

 umbels of Aralia spinosa, and at times on spurs along the branchlets of the 

 panicle are similar colored processes, so small that their form cannot be made 

 out by a common pocket lens. Our fellow member, Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt, 

 makes them out, under the dissecting microscope, to be vase-like forms with 

 five minute reflexed segments, and with a small solid disk in the centre. It 

 is interesting as evidently being a successful attempt of an abortive flower 

 to simulate in some respects a real one of another character. 



Examining, also, the flowers of the allied European Evergreen Ivy, lied era- 

 Helix, L., I find similar laws of distribution of the sexes as in Aralia spinosa, 

 with the addition of a somewhat different structure in the male from the 

 female flowers. 



In Europe the plant is described as often having a single umbel as a 

 flower spike. It is quite likely in these cases the flowers are hermaphrodite. 

 In all the cases I have met here, the inflorescence is a compound of several 

 umbels, a terminal one female, and the lateral ones male, as in Aralia. 

 But there are rudiments of stamens in the flower, and in occasional instances 

 I find a filament developed; but never, so far, with any polleniferous anthers. 

 The flowers of the central female umbel have rather longer and stronger 

 pedicels than the lateral male ones. The calyx is united with the ovarium 

 for one-half its length, and the latter much developed in the unopened flower. 

 In the male the segments of the calyx are two-thirds free, and the petals are 

 much longer than in the female flowers. 



As in Aralia spinosa, the male flowers do not open until some time after the 

 female ones; and not before some of the latter, impatient of delay, have fallen 

 unfertilized. 



I have so often and in so many varied ways demonstrated to the Academy 

 that in plants the male element is a later and inferior creation, that it 

 seems almost superogatory to point out that these plants illustrate the same 

 principle. But it is part of the record of what I believe to be unobserved 

 facts in relation to these species, therefore I briefly allude to them. 



[Sept. 



Issued November 1st, 1870. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 10i* 



Oct. 4th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Prof. Leidy directed attention to a small collection of fossils recently re- 

 ceived from Prof. F. V. Harden, now engaged in a geological exploration of 

 part of our western territories. 



Most of the fossils were collected on the Sweet Water R., eighteen miles 

 west of Devil's Gate, Wyoming Territory. 



The most numerous and characteristic remains in the collection are those 

 of a species of Merycochozrus, the skull of which was little more than two- 

 thirds the diameter of that of Merycocho&rua proprius from the head waters of 

 the Niobrara River. The species is particularly indicated by a number of 

 fragments of jaws, with teeth of half a dozen individuals. The anatomical 

 characters are the same as in M. proprius. The infra-orbital arch is of great 

 proportionate depth, as in the latter when compared with its condition in the 

 different species of Oreodon. The face has the same abruptly contracted char- 

 acter in advance of the orbits, and the infra-orbital foramen occupies a cor- 

 responding position as in M. proprius. In Oreodon the face narrows more grad- 

 ually forward, and has a more triangular outline when viewed from above; 

 and the infra-orbital foramen is situated farther forward. There may be other 

 important anatomical points distinguishing Merycochozrus from Oreodon, in 

 portions of the skull of the former, which we have not yet had the opportu- 

 nity of examining. 



The inspection of these specimens leads me to suspect that the remains from 

 the pliocene sands of the Niobrara River, which I referred to another genus 

 under the name of Merychyus medius, perhaps belong to the same animal, and 

 those from the same locality referred to Merychyus major, perhaps belong to 

 Merycochozrus proprius. The material at command is insufficient for me to de- 

 termine whether this is the case, and under the circumstances I am disposed 

 to refer the remains in question, from the Sweet Water R., to a distinct species 

 with the name of Merycochcsrus rdsticus. 



A series of lower molars of this species measures 1 inches. 



A series in another individual * inches. 



The series in M. proprius is 5f inches. 



It has occurred to me that the remains thus referred to a smaller species of 

 3Ien/cochcerus, may have pertained to the female of 31. proprius. The speci- 

 mens, however, of all the individuals, indicate a smaller animal than those 

 upon which the latter was founded. 



In association with the remains are a few fragments indicating a small 

 equine animal, perhaps a Eipparion. There are also several small fragments 

 of jaws indicating the presence of Canis vafer and Merycodus necatus, origi- 

 nally based on specimens from the pliocene sands of the Niobrara River, Ne- 

 braska. 



The remaining fossils consist of two interesting specimens, from near tor 

 Bridger. One of them is an upper back molar, apparently of a small 

 specTes of Lophiodon. The crown of the tooth is perfect and but slightly worn 

 at the acute summits of the lobes. The tooth has nearly the form, size, and 

 constitution as the corresponding ones in Anchitherium Bairdi, but the ridges 

 extending forward and outward from the inner lobes in advance of the outer 

 lobes exhibit no trace of a disposition to form intervening lobes to the four 

 principal ones. The fore and aft diameter of the specimen is a little over 

 seven lines; the transverse diameter a little under that measurement, for 

 the name of the species I would propose that of Lophiodon modestus. 



The other specimen consists of a portion of the right ramus of a lower jaw 

 of a small pachydermous animal, containing the true molars, much worn 



1870.] 8 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



together with the mutilated remains of the preceding premolar. The teeth 

 are too much worn to enable me to determine the original anatomical charac- 

 ters, but nevertheless are sufficiently perfect to indicate an animal probably 

 allied to the suilline family. The specimen belongs to a genus and species 

 distinct from any heretofore met with by me from the North American geolo- 

 gical formations, and, so far as I can make the comparison, appears different 

 from any obtained elsewhere. I propose at present to refer it to a species with 

 the name of Hyopsodus paulus, and in future will give a more detailed de- 

 scription of it accompanied with a drawing. 



The length of the true molar series in the specimen is half an inch. The 

 last molar is a little over two lines in its fore and aft diameter. The depth of 

 the jaw below the second true molar is three and a half lines. 



u 



Oct. llth. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Observations on some fishes new to the American Fauna, found 

 at Newport, R. I., by Samuel Powell." By Edward D. Cope. 

 " Note on Silphium laciniatum." By Thos. Meehan. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said he had noticed a singular habit in the common 

 Stink bug" of gardens, Reduvius novenarhts, Say, which might lead to some 

 important physiological discoveries by those more closely devoted to entomo- 

 logical studies. Wondering what made some abrasion on the bark of a Pinus 

 cembra on his grounds, he was attracted by a female insect of this species 

 near it ; and noticed that on the thigh of the middle leg the usual gray color 

 was of a polished black. Supposing that possibly the insect may have had 

 something to do with the injury to the bark, through which the turpentine 

 was oozing, he waited a few minutes to re-assure the insect usually timid 

 under observation that there was no danger. It then went to work to take 

 the turpentine with the heel of the tarsus of the fore leg, aud place it on the 

 thigh of the second leg. It took several dozen " heelsful," winding it round 

 the gathering ball on the leg, as one would wind a ball of string. After it had 

 collected together a ball of turpentine about the size of a pin's head, it gently 

 wiped it off with the femora of the hind leg, and applied it to the anus, where 

 it was very rapidly absorbed. It then walked very leisurely to the top of the 

 nearest branch, when it flew away. This was in the end of September. He 

 saw no more of these insects till a week afterwards, when he cut off a small 

 branch on which was another female, and carried it to the pine tree, applying 

 the branch to the stem so that the insect could walk on to it, without much 

 suspicion of human agency in the matter. As soon as it got to the turpentine, 

 it went througk the same operation as the other one, taking two doses of it 

 before it walked away ; which it did leisurely, and with much apparent satis- 

 faction. 



Up to this time he had not been able to find a male, so as to ascertain if it 

 also had any similar use for turpentine. 



Thaddeus Norris, after making some observations on a project now on foot 

 for stocking the Delaware river with the black bass of the Potomac {Grystes 

 salmoides), brought originally from the Ohio, mentioned in the same connec- 

 nection an experiment about to be tried of introducing Salmon by artificial 

 culture. He thought that the Delaware had many characteristics of rivers 

 producing large salmon in Canada, while its summer temperature was scarcely 

 higher; that it was unobstructed by impassable dams on some of its fine trib- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



utaries and on both of its principal branches to their sources. Mr. Norris 

 also remarked that the experiment was of much importance in ascertaining if 

 this valuable fish the salmon may not be gradually acclimated in rivers 

 further south than those they now frequent. 



Oct. 18th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



Prop. Leidy directed attention to a collection of fossils, recently received 

 for examination, through the Smithsonian Institution, from Rev. Thomas 

 Condon, of Dalles City, Oregon. The fossils consist of remains of mamma- 

 lia, obtained by Mr. Condon from the valley of Bridge Creek, a tributary of 

 John Day's River, Oregon. They appear petrified in the same manner as the 

 similar remains from the Mauvaises Terres of White River, Dakota, but gene- 

 rally are less well preserved. 



The greater number and more striking specimens belong apparently to a 

 species of Oreodon, larger than any previously discovered and equaling in size 

 Merycochcerus proprius. Indeed, so far as we are familiar with the skull of both, 

 the two are so nearly alike that one may be regarded as only a variety of the 

 other, or at most both may be viewed as distinct species of the same genus. 

 I am, however, disposed to view one as the offspring, by selection, of the 

 other, and regard them as corresponding species of two genera which existed 

 probably in different times or localities. 



The species, which I propose to distinguish under the name of Oreodon 

 suferbus, is indicated by a much mutilated skull, together with mutilated 

 crania, and portions of jaws with and without teeth, of half a dozen or more 

 individuals. The specimens indicate a little variation in the size of tin' ani- 

 mal, but it appears to have been on the average about the same as Meryco- 

 chcerus proprius. 



The form and constitution of the cranium are the same as in Oreodon Cul- 

 bertsoni, but large inflated ear capsules or tympanic bones exist as in Oreodon 

 major and 0. bullatus. 



The face is intermediate in character to that of Oreodon major and Meryco- 

 checrus proprius. It is rather more abruptly narrowed in advance of the orbits 

 than in the former, but not to the same degree as in the latter. The infra- 

 orbital arches are proportionately of much greater depth than in Oreodon ma- 

 jor, and the other species of the Mauvaises Terres of Dakota, but are not so 

 deep as in Merycochcerus proprius. Thus in Oreodon major it measures 9 lines 

 in depth, in 0. superbus 18 lines, in Merycochcerus proprius 23 lines. 



The orbits are comparatively small, as in all the family of the Oreodonts. 

 The lachrymal fossa is proportionately shallower than in 0. Culbertsoni and 

 0. major, and in this respect is more like that of 0. gracilis. 



The infra-orbital foramen in Oreodon superbus holds an intermediate posi- 

 tion to that of Merycochcerus proprius and that of the Mauvaises Terres 

 Oreodons. 



The jaws of 0. superbus appear not quite so robust proportionately as in 

 Merycochcerus proprius, and the bone of the lower jaw is of less thickness. 



The teeth of 0. superbus and Merycochcerus proprius agree in size and consti- 

 tution, but the premolars and canines of the former appear more compressed 

 laterally, or they are of less thickness from within outwardly, and are some- 

 what wider fore and aft. 



I am prepared to admit that all the characters by which I have attempted 

 to discriminate different species of Oreodon and Merycochezrus are not fixed, 

 but I nevertheless view them as sufficient to eliminate animals which would 

 be generally recognised as distinct. 



1870.] 




112 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



The estimated length of the skull of Oreodon superbus is about fourteen 

 inches. The length of the skull of 0. major is about nine inches and one- 

 third. 



In a fragment of a lower jaw of 0. superbus, imbedded in the matrix, the 

 crown of the canine is an inch in width fore and aft. The three premolars 

 behind occupy a space of two inches and a third. In Mergcochcerus proprius 

 the crown of the lower canine is little more than three-fourths of an inch 

 fore and aft, and the premolars behind occupy a space of less than two 

 inches. 



Of other remains in the Oregon collection there are a few fragments of jaws 

 of Oreodon Culbertsoni, one of which contains a series of the upper last pre- 

 molar and the true molars. There also occur a few small fragments of molar 

 teeth, which are recognizable as pertaining to Agriochcerus antiquus. There is 

 also here an inferior true molar of Leptomeryz Evansi, and likewise there are 

 several mutilated molars of Anchitherhnn Bairdi. These specimens are all 

 marked as having been obtained from the " Big-bottom of the John 

 Day." 



An interesting specimen from Bridge Creek consists of a small fragment of 

 an upper jaw, containing two teeth, apparently of a tapiroid animal, and pro- 

 bably the same as that indicated by a tooth from the Mauvaises Terres, and 

 referred to a species with the name of Lophiodon occidenlalis. The teeth appear 

 to be the hinder two premolars, or perhaps are the last of these and the next 

 true molar. They are much worn, and the second tooth has its back part 

 broken off. They may belong to a different genus from Lophiodon, and they 

 do exhibit slight peculiarity, but their condition renders a positive determina- 

 tion uncertain. The specimen indicates an animal about the size of the living 

 Tapirus terrestris. 



At least two species of Rhinoceros are indicated by remains from Bridge 

 Creek valley. One of these I think to be the Rhinoceros occidentalis, originally 

 founded on remains from the Mauvaises Terres of White River, Dakota. Sev- 

 eral well preserved upper molars, and a fragment of the lower jaw with an 

 entire molar, marked "John Day's," neither differ in constitution, form or size 

 from those of the last named species. 



An isolated upper molar, marked " Alkali Flat," clearly belongs to a differ- 

 ent species from the former, and may perhaps pertain to the species Rhinoceros 

 hesperius, founded on the ramus of a lower jaw from California. From the 

 outer wall of the crown there project into the median valley three folds, and 

 a small fold projects in the vicinity of the latter from the postero-internal 

 lobe. The arrangement of these folds resembles that of a temporary molar 

 from the Niobrara River, of Nebraska (fig. 5, pi. xxiii, Ext. Mam. Fauna of 

 Dakota and Nebraska) referred to Rhinoceros crassus. It is not improbable that 

 the tooth may belong to a peculiar species, but the material thus far brought 

 to our notice is insufficient to determine the question positively. 



Fragments of a canine tooth in the collection indicate apparently a huge 

 species of Elotherium, perhaps the E. superbum. Another mutilated canine 

 apparently belongs to a smaller species, perhaps the E. ingens. 



Two inferior molars apparently indicate a Peccary about the size of the 

 living Dicotyles iorquatus. 



A small fragment of an upper jaw contains a mutilated molar tooth, indi- 

 cating a species of Anchitherium, larger than A. Bairdi, of the Mauvaises 

 Terres of White River. It may perhaps indicate a different though closely 

 allied genus, as the median lobes are proportionately better developed in rela- 

 tion with the inner and outer ones than in the true Anchitherium. The animal 

 would appear to hold a position intermediate to A. Bairdi and Anchippus texa- 

 nus. Awaiting the opportunity of examining additional material, I would 

 propose for the species the name of Anchitherium Condom, in honor of the 

 Rev. Thomas Condon, the discoverer of these and the preceding fossils which 

 have been the subjects of examination. The fore and aft diameter of the tooth 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



has measured about eight lines, the transverse diameter about three-fourth- of 

 an inch. 



Prof. Leidy further stated that in a recent visit to the Schuylkill river at 

 Fairmount, to seek for specimens of Urnalella, though he had been ansae) i 

 ful in obtaining living ones within reach from the shore, lie had found in the 

 same positions occupied by the former, an abundance of Cordylophora. This 

 is the first time that he had noticed this interesting compound hydroid polyp 

 in the vicinity of Philadelphia, and be -was surprised that until now it had 

 escaped his notice. Cordylophora was first detected by him in this country at 

 Newport, R. I. He had not been able to satisfy himself that it was a different 

 species from the European Cordylophora lacustris, first described by Prof. All- 

 man of Edinburgh. It appears, however, to be much smaller. Prof. Allman 

 represents the C. lacustris several inches in length, with the polyps a line in 

 length. Oars is not more than half the size. As a variety it might be named 

 Cordylophora americana. 



Oct. 25th 

 The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



Prof. Leidy stated that he had recently received from Prof. Hayden, at the 

 latest date, at Fort Bridger, several boxes of fossils, most of them remains of 

 Crocodiles and Turtles from Church Buttes, the junction of the Big Sandy and 

 Green Rivers, &c. Of these he proposed to give a notice at another period. 

 Among the mammalian remains there were some of special interest, and to 

 these he wished to direct attention at the present time. The first exhibited 

 consisted of the crowns of teeth and fragments of others, of a pachydermous 

 animal, approaching in size the common Ox. Thecrown of a lower true molar 

 resembles in its constitution those of Palxotherium, Chalicotherium and Tita- 

 notherium, being composed of a pair of fore and aft conjoined pyramidal lobes 

 with crescentic summits. It measures 16 lines antero-posteriorly and 10 lines 

 transversely. Fragments of upper true molars exhibit the outer part of the 

 crown composed of a pair of lobes exactly as in Hyopotamus. The inner 

 portion of the crown is composed of a pair of simple cones, broad and low, 

 the front one considerably larger than the back one. One of the specimens 

 in the entire condition of the crown measured about 22 lines fore and aft 

 and 18 lines transversely. The crown of an upper premolar lias its outer 

 part composed of a pair 'of conjoined cones with acute summits and sides. 

 The inner portion of the crown consists of a single broad simple cone em- 

 braced in front and behind by a basal ridge. The anteroposterior diameter 

 of the crown externally measures 9k lines ; the transverse diameter is an 

 inch. 



The teeth indicate an animal apparently allied to Chalicotherium and Pitano- 

 therium, but different from either. The name of Pa^osyops palttdosos was 

 proposed for it. The remains were obtained at Church Buttes. and belong, 

 as Prof. Hayden reports, to the tertiary formation of the Bridger Group. 



Another fossil exhibited was discovered by Prof. Hayden at Black's Fork. 



It consists of a fragment of the lower jaw, containing two teeth, ot an ani- 

 mal about as big as a Rabbit. The teeth, consisting of the two last molars, 

 resemble in their construction those of the Peccary, but the constituent lobes 

 of the crown are more pointed and smoother. The second true molar has four 

 lobes ; the last, an additional lobe. The two teeth together occupy a space of 

 less than 5 lines; the depth of the jaw beneath the penultimate molar , 8 three 

 lines. For the animal, the name of Microsus cuspidatus was proposed. 



Another fossil consists of the greater part of the right ramus > of a lower jaw 

 partially imbedded in sandstone, and was also obtained by I rot. Hayden at 



1870.] 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Black's Fork. The specimen apparently indicates an animal allied to the 

 Raccoon, than which it was nearly a third smaller in size. The ramus con- 

 tained a series of seven molars, immediately succeeding the canine, without 

 hiatus. A.11 the molars remain except the first, and this like the succeeding 

 one was inserted by a pair of fangs. 



The teeth in the specimen are much worn, so that their original character 

 is obscure. The crowns of the premolars appear to have been nearly like 

 those of the Raccoon. In the true molars the postero-internal cusp of the 

 crown existing in the latter, appears to have been but feebly developed in the 

 extinct animal. 



The body of the jaw, though much shorter, is absolutely deeper than in the 

 Raccoon. The coronoid process has been comparatively narrow ; the exter- 

 nal masseteric fossa feeble, and the condyle is remarkably small, not being 

 more than a third in size of that of the Raccoon. 



The measurements of the specimen are as follow : length from symphysis 

 to back of condyle, 2 J inches ; space occupied by the series of seven molars, 

 16 lines ; depth of lower jaw below the first true molar, 6 lines. 



For the animal the name of Notharctus texebrosus was proposed. 



Remains of Pal&osyops paludosus, have since been received from Henry's 

 Fork of Green River, Wyoming. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Chas. K. 

 Mills, M. D. ; J. Solis Cohen, M. D. ; Bushrod H. James, M. D., 

 and Mr. J. Blodget Britton. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be published : 



On the Stipules of Magnolia and Liriodendron. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



An examination of the stipules of Magnolia afford some highly interesting 

 facts ; most, or perhaps all of which are known to leading botanists, but 

 which do not appear to be as generally known as they deserve to be ; and 

 which facts may have a more intimate bearing on many of the questions con- 

 nected with the laws of development than is suspected. 



In most species of Magnolia a scar peculiar to the genus exists on the petiole. 

 This scar is elevated somewhat above the surrounding tissue, as if the matter 

 forming it had been laid on the surface after the rest of the petiole had been 

 formed. The tint of green is not the same as the rest of the petiole, but it is 

 always of the same tint as that of the leaf blade. In Magnolia macrophylla the 

 petiole and under surface of the leaf is gray ; the leaf blade is pale green on 

 the upper surface. The surface of the scar is pale green, corresponding to the 

 surface of the leaf blade. The whole appearance of the scar is such as if a 

 portion of a leaf blade had been grafted by its under surface on the petiole. 



On the upper point of the scar next the leaf blade are two small articulation 

 points, where the membranaceous stipules finally parted from the leaf. Exam- 

 ining aleaf before these stipules have fallen, the main veins forming the ske- 

 leton of the stipules are found connecting with these, articuli, and, spreading 

 out, diverge downward toward the base of the leaf. In separating at maturity 

 from the petiole, they part first from the base, and last from their place of ar- 

 ticulation. Their weakest hold is the point farthest away from what thus ap- 

 pears to be their source at the apex of the scar. 



Magnolia Frazeri elongates its petiole beyond the stipule several iuches gen- 

 erally. The leaf blade then exhibits the auricle so well known in this species. 

 The structure of this auricle is similar to the stipules in M. macrophylla or 31. 

 tripetela. The veins start out in nearly as clote a fascicle as in these stipules, 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA L15 



and thej r diverge and curve downwards just as these stipules do. Above tl 

 strong veins of the auricle are very weak veins, necessitating a \ i - ii.htdw 

 blade portion there, until another set of strong veins push out ami make i In- 

 main part of the lamina. 



If we press these auricles back against the petiole, and imagine an union 

 with it, then a separation from the main leaf blade, and an union of the ed 

 of the separated auricle, both above and below, we have a sheathed stipule 

 exactly as we find them, and we see how easily Magnolia Frazeri might be a 

 pinnate leaf of -five leaflets on the supposition that the stipular portions really 

 have taken the course we suppose these auricles might take. 



I suppose no one of experience in living plants doubts the possibility of the 

 adhesion of some parts and the separation of others, so as to make new parts 

 or organs. If such is desired, I would refer to the adhesion of the carpellary 

 leaves by their backs in the capsules of Staphi/lea trifolia ; and for separation 

 to the pinnate leaf often formed out of an entire blade in Fraxinus excelsior, 

 heterophylla, and many other plants with entire leaves which often have pin- 

 nate ones amongst them. 



It is scarcely possible, with these facts before us, to avoid the suspicion that 

 the stipules of Magnolia are not formed like the stipules of most plants, which 

 are perhaps leaf portions which have never beeu well developed, but rather are 

 the tolerably well developed side pinnules of a trifoliate or deeply auricled 

 leaf, which in an early stage had adnated with the petiole, and by their edges, 

 and thus formed the stipular sheath we see. The suppositious case 1 have 

 drawn from the auricles of M. Frazeri is still better illustrated by leaves of 

 some Ranunculaceous plants. For instance, Anemone Pennsylvanica. Lay the 

 lower lobes flat against the petiole, imagine the adnation by their backs, and 

 cohesion of the edges, and we have the idea clearly. 



It is difficult to conceive that these stipular sheathes could have been formed 

 in harmony with all the appearances we have detailed, in any other way ; but 

 ideas and possibilities are not as good as direct facts. These are furnished 

 in good part in other ways. 



In the East Indian species, M.fuscata, the flowers are axillary, not terminal 

 as in most other species. Three of the leaf axils on the growth of last year pro- 

 duce flowers. The lowest flower is the weakest, the upper the strongest. The 

 bracts which enfold the flower buds are of course transformed leaves ; and 

 here, in these weak flowers, where the tendency of the vital course is almosl 

 as near to foliar organs as to floral parts, we find these leafy-looking bracts 

 are trifoliate. The central lobe is composed of a short petiole, and a small 

 oval leaf blade. Sometimes this attempt of the lower axil to produce a flower 

 proves abortive. The already formed petals die away. In such cases the two 

 lateral leaflets die away also, and the little miniature central leaf goes on and 

 developes into one as large as the average on any part of the plant. But in 

 the stronger flowers we find, just in proportion to their strength, the two lat- 

 eral leaflets enlarge, and the central one diminish until at length it disappi 

 petiole and all. The laterals then adhere by their edges, become fleshy, and 

 end in bein- petals. These are clearly seen to be formed out of the adnated 

 lateral leaflets, which form the stipular sheaths in other cases, with the cen- 

 tral of the trifoliate leaf type absorbed. This observation, in addition to the 

 use I wish to make of it, confirms the views of some botanists, as 1 have 

 learned from Professor Asa Gray, that it is by metamorphosis of the petiolar 

 and stipular parts, rather than by modifications of the leaf blade, that petals 



are formed. ., , . , , 



From these facts we gather the certainty of a trilobate type of leaf, and see 

 the adnation of the edges; and only the dorsal adhesion to the petiole 

 which I have shown so probable as almost to amount to a certainty, is Left to 

 be established by actual fact. . 



This ternate division of the leaf is a marked character ,n Ranuncula 

 and with this exposition of a ternate type in Magnohaceae, its chum to a p 



1870. J 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in the Ranal alliance, strong as it always has been acknowledged to be, is 

 still more strengthened. 



It is impossible to suppose that a so closely allied genus as Liriodendron 

 should be founded on a different type from Magnolia. We shall see that only 

 very slight causes, which we can well understand, have made some of the 

 chief foliar distinctions, and the few which we cannot prove from actual facts, 

 can be made almost certainties from parallel observations. The identity of 

 type will in this way be manifest. 



First, as to the premorse or cut off appearance of the end of the leaf blade. 

 This all results from the stipular portions being adnate with the stem axis, 

 instead of being wholly on the petiole as in Magnolia. In the latter the stip- 

 ules are carried along as the petiole advances, the leaf blade cannot grow be- 

 yond, and so in vernation has to lie flat up against them. In Liriodendron, the 

 stipules being fast to the main stem, the petiole carries the leaf blade beyond 

 them, over which it is bent until its apex is brought down in contact with the 

 straight line formed by the union of stipule and stem. Here it is pressed as into 

 a mould by the elongating petiole, and the form of the leaf which we see is the 

 necessary result. These processes in Magnolia and Liriodendron can readily be 

 seen on an examination of the buds at any time during the growing season ; and 

 to those who have no specimens the figure of the latter in Gray's Genera will 

 easily give the idea. It may be here noted that those who look only to Mr. 

 Darwin's principle of natural selection to account for the laws of form, might 

 be troubled by such cases as these. It is scarcely conceivable that a square- 

 edged leaf blade, as we find it in Liriodendron, is of any special benefit to the 

 species ; yet if this form is the consequence of some other act, which is a ben- 

 efit, the selection principle may still hold. 



If the ternate type of leaf is probable in LAriodendron, as in Magnolia, the 

 lower portion of the petiole, and lateral or stipular portions, must have ad- 

 nated with the stem prior to the full development of the leaf. This view ne- 

 cessitates the idea that the leaf does not always originate at the node from 

 which it seems to spring. I do not believe it does; but I am well aware that 

 in this I have opposed to me the weight of our best botanical authorities, from 

 whom I would not yet dare to positively differ until I shall have the weight of 

 more facts. 1 would only say that in the case of Liriodendron the appearances 

 are much in favor of the belief that in an early stage the petiole clasped the stem, 

 and for a considerable length ultimately became an integral part of its cortical 

 system. The vessels which are seen connected in direct lines with the peti- 

 oles below and above the node, as they are in existence before the leaf bud 

 has opened, and the leaf blade has had any chance to elaborate sap from the 

 light or air, supposed to be necessary just above before they could be formed, 

 do not seem to originate at the node ; while the fact that these vessels suddenly 

 curve from the opposite side towards the supposed petiolar base is much more 

 characteristic of an unfolding sheath than of a descending current of matter 

 which would most naturally go down in astraightish line. But that the peti- 

 ole has really adnated with the stem in this way in Liriodendron seems most 

 probable from the fact that on the opposite side from the leaf is often seen a 

 ridge which could hardly be formed except by the meeting of two edges en- 

 closing a stem, with a little to spare ; and at other times there is a slight de- 

 pression, as if the two opposite edges barely met. There seems to be every 

 evidence short of an actual witnessing of the fact, that the petiole in Lirio- 

 dendron became adnate with the stem, and in this way the two lateral sections 

 (stipules) were brought in contact with the siem with which they united. This 

 would bring them nearer the sources of nutrition, and enable them to assume 

 ^ more leaf- like and permanent character than if on the petiole. They become 

 rather primary than secondary leaf organs, and this is just what we see them 

 to be. 



Thus we may assume that Magnolia has typically a ternate leaf structure ; 

 that the stipules are the two lateral lobes which by a peculiar process of ad- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



nation became stipular sheaths after having been partially organized as leaf 

 blade ; and that Liriodendron differs from Muynolia only in possessing a greati r 

 power of adnation. 



Notes on SILPHITJM LACINIATUM, L. The Compass Plant. 



BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



It is at once the strength and the weakness of science that it takes little on 

 trust. One would suppose that, after the positive facts given by President 

 Hill in his paper before the recent meeting of the American Association, there 

 was no room for doubt that the edges of the leaves of Silphium laciniatum had 

 an average bearing north. But I find men excellent, acute observers who 

 doubt the facts. They say " We took the trouble to examine the plants on 

 the spot, and found not the slightest trace of any such tendency; we want no 

 better evidence than that of our own senses." 



As before suggested, it is an excellent habit to verify, for ourselves, the 

 facts reported by others there is far too little of this habit, but when the 

 observations conflict, it is safer to assume that both are right, and that there 

 is something yet undiscovered which would harmonize the opposition, than 

 that either one is wrong. 



In this matter of the Silphium or " compass plant " I was able to find this 

 missing link, and to see that both parties were right. 



When I first saw the Silphium, to any great extent, in its natural localities, 

 there was not the slightest indication of this northern tendency. It was a 

 great surprise, as a limited knowledge of it before had taught the reverse. I 

 determined to watch a plant carefully on my own grounds the next year. The 

 result was just as described by President Hill. There was the unmistakable 

 northern tendency in the leaves when they first came up, and until they were 

 large and heavy, when winds and rains bore them in different directions, and 

 they evidently had not the power of regaining the points lost. This often 

 took place by their own weight alone, especially in luxuriant specimens. .Mr. 

 Hill says it was in June when he saw them on the prairies, all bearing north ; 

 when I saw them, and not doing so, it was early in September, and then no 

 doubt the mechanical causes I have referred to, had been in operation. 



The plant I have had in my garden now for some years affords much in- 

 terest in many respects. I learned an useful lesson from it this year, in refer- 

 ence to the relative rates of growth in the different parts of the inflorescence. 

 Noticing that there appeared to be no growth in the disk florets in the day, 

 I determined to note accurately one morning during the last week in August, 

 exactly when growth did commence. The ray flowers close over the disk 

 during night, and at 4 A. M., with day just dawning in the east, I found the 

 ray petals just commencing to open back. In the disk there are about fifteen 

 coils of florets in the spiral. There appeared no motion until 4.40, although 

 no doubt growth commenced at 4, when the ray petals were in motion, but 

 too slow to be perceptible. At 4.40, however, the five outer circles were evi- 

 dently slightly elevated above the others in the disk. Then follows the fol- 

 lowing record in my diary : 



4.45. The five divisions of the corolla split open. 

 4.50. Corollas grown three thirty-seconds of an inch. 

 4.55. Divisions of corolla fully expanded. 



5. Florets two-eighths above the rest of the disk. It might be well to say 

 here that there was no growth in any this morning but in the five outside 



rows we are speaking of. f Q ti 



5.5, 5.10. No apparent change except that some which were not so perfectly 



opened as the others seemed to become so. ' *, 



5.15. Pistil and mass of stamens slightly elevate above the level of the 



corolla. 



1870.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



5.20. Corollas now about five-sixteenths of an inch above the others in 

 disk. Pistils and stamens about two lines above the corollas. Long yellow 

 ray petals half open, with no appearance of pollen on their pistils. 



From this time forward there was no further growth of the corolla, so that 

 this portion of the daily labor was accomplished in about three quarters of 

 an hour. 



5.25. Pistils and stamens beyond the corolla . . . l-32d inch. 



5.30. " " ... l-16th " 



5.35. " " ... th " 



5.40. " " " ... fth " 



5.45, 5.50. No change. 



5.55. Pistils begin to project beyond the stamens. The first insect, a sand 

 wasp appears. He inserts his proboscis down between the clavate j>istil and 

 the stamens, carrying away the pollen, which is all over his head. 



6, 6.5. Pistils one line; stamens no longer lengthen. 



6.10. Anthers are falling away from the pistils, which are two lines beyond. 



6.15. No change. 



6.20. The ray petals now fully open, that is horizontal. 



No change was noticed after this, except the free visits of sand wasps; none 

 of these, however, carried any pollen to the pistils in the ray florets. 



About 9 o'clock (there had not been the slightest indications of any growth 

 since 6.20) heavier insects began to arrive, and then the slightest touch broke 

 off the florets, which fell on the ray pistils which happened to be below them, 

 and in this way they were fertilized. These pistils died very soon afterwards. 

 Those pistils on the upper side (the flower leaning a little) were quite fresh 

 the next morning, awaiting some chance to be fertilized, insects, evidently, 

 not performing that office. 



We here see that there were three phases of growth, with a slight rest be- 

 tween each, the pistil taking the most time, then the stamens, and the corolla 

 the least ; hut the whole growth of the day included within two hours. 



I have used the term pistil for the clavate process which occupies the place 

 of the true organ in the ray florets. Of course only the ray floret of Silphium 

 have perfect pistils. This clavate false pistil, or ovary, has hitherto been sup- 

 posed to be a necessary production for the fertilization of the plant. It was 

 supposed to push out the pollen, which was thereby scattered to the ray florets 

 about it. But these observations show that this is probably an error, and 

 that fertilization is chiefly carried on by the easy falling away of the mass of 

 stamens, as I have shown in a paper on Euphorbia Jacquinozflora, in last years 

 Proceedings, is the case with that species. 



I am anxious to call particular attention to the different ratios of growth 

 in connection with the appearance of different floral organs in this plant, be- 

 cause I think I see traces of a general law in plants that there are vibrations 

 or varying intensities during each season's growth, and that the production of 

 various organs depends on degrees of these vibrations. 



Observations on some Fishes new to the American Fauna, found at Newport, 



R. I. By Samuel Powell. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



A number of interesting additions to the ichthyological fauna of the United 

 States having been sent to the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 by our fellow-member Samuel Powell, I place them on record for the conve- 

 nience of ichthyologists. Several of the species, it will be observed, were new 

 to science at the time they were received ; some of these have been described 

 by Prof. Gill. Most of these are of West Indian affinity, some being simply 

 well known species of that region, which have wandered, as has been sug- 

 gested by Gill, along the Gulf Stream, and turned aside on the southern coast 

 of the New England States. 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



ACANTHOPTERYGII. 



AroGON americanus Apogonichthys Castelnau, Voyage Amer. Merid. Tab. 1. 

 Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soe. 1866, 400. 



Priacanthus altus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1862, 132. 



Hyportuodus flavicauda Gill, 1. c. 1861, 98 ; 1862, 133. 



Promicropterus decoratus Gill, Proc. A. N. Sci., 1863, 164. 



D. II. 26. A. 16 scales 11 98 46, counted from base of second dorsal Bpine. 

 Dorsal fins connected by membrane as elevated as that of the first dorsal. 

 Head (from premaxilla to end of spine) more than four times in length includ- 

 ing caudal fin. Pectorals not narrowed. Eye 5.33 times in length of head. 

 Otherwise as in P. maculatus Hoi. 



Color dark brown, covered with large round pale spots as large as the orbit, 

 each with a brown central spot. They extend on the dorsal and proximal 

 caudal fins. Second dorsal, anal, and caudal fin broadly blackish edged. 



Another character in which this species differs from P. maculalus is the 

 gentle and gradual rise of the lateral line from the suprascapula. In the 

 latter, it forms a weak sigmoid with abrupt upward curvature. From New- 

 port, Rhode Island ; discovered by my friend Samuel Powell of thai place, 

 among many other highly interesting fishes. As no one else has detected the 

 Promicropterus decoratus on any other part of the coast of the United States, it 

 must be a rare species. Prof. Gill originally described it as coming from 

 Panama. 



Vomer cortus Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is intermediate in form between Vomer setipinnis Mitch., and 

 Selene argentea Lac. It is, therefore, shorter and deeper than the former, and 

 with dorsal and ventral outline more convex. The pectoral fin is also longer, 

 and the eye larger. The prominence of the front is anterior in position to 

 that which it occupies in the latter, hence the fish has a less rhomboid, and 

 more regular form. The first anal ray is further in advance of the first of the 

 second dorsal than in V. brownii, and not so far as in S. argentea. 



Radii D. Ill with membrane, III without, 22. A 19. The pectoral reaches 

 the ventral outline at the tenth soft anal ray. The greatest depth of the head 

 measured along the anterior limb of the orbit enters the total to the caudal 

 emargination 1-8 times in V. setipinnis 2-5 times ; depth at first anal ray, in 

 the same, 1-66 times; in V. setipinnis nearly twice. Eye into length of head, 

 horizontally through orbit, 2-75 times ; into length along front, 4-6 times. 

 Muzzle projecting enclosing a strong concavity with front line much stronger 

 than in V. brownii or S. argentea. Total length 0m. 165. Length of head from 

 muzzle along lower margin of orbit 0m. 046. Color silvery, without spots. 



A second specimen from the North American Atlantic coast, the precise 

 locality not recorded. Bonaparte collection in Mus. Academy Natural 



Sciences. 



The structure of the fins in this species is precisely similar to that seen in 

 V. setipinnis, and in general it resembles that species very closely. The dif- 

 ferences are readily observed on comparison with specimens of the latter of 

 the same size. 

 Sarothrodus maculocixctcs Gill, Pr. A. N. Sci., 1861, 99. Only found at 



Newport. 

 Gltphidodon saxatilis Linn. 



An abundant West Indian species. 



MALACOPTERYG1I. 



Hemirhamphus uxifasciatus Ranzani. 

 A West Indian fish. 



1870.] 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



PLECTOGNATHI. 



Balistes powellii Cope, sp. nov. 



This is a species allied in form and color to the B. moribundus, but ap- 

 parently nearer to the species of Hollard's group II. A.* 



Radii 2 D. 26, A. 22, preanals 9 or 10 on each side ; P. 134, C. 12. rounded. 

 Form elevated, pelvic depth 1-75 times in total length. Front convex from 

 basis of dorsal fin to spines of premaxillaries. Orbit 365.times in muzzle ; 

 jaws equal. Scales without prominent spines, those of the cheek in oblique 

 series. Two or three scapular plates. First dorsal spine 1-25 times in length 

 of muzzle, rugose. Third dorsal spine well developed. Anterior rays of 

 second dorsal and anal not much longer than the median rays. Length of 

 head (to opercular slit) 3.5 times in total ; anal depth 2-25 in the same. 



Color above, ashy, below white. Numerous longitudinally oval azure spots 

 extend in series on the sides everywhere except between the chin, pectoral fin 

 and pelvic bone. The dorsal and anal fins are marked with smaller spots of 

 the same. 



This species was discovered by my friend Samuel Powell, at Newport, 

 Rhode Island, Sept., 1867. It must be a very rare species, as it has not been 

 met with elsewhere, so far as I am aware. I have pleasure in dedicating it 

 to the discoverer, whose attention to ichthyology has been so often attended 

 with interesting results. 



Tetraodon trichocephalus Cope, sp. nov. 



Belly spinous to near vent ; dorsal region from a little behind the nares to 

 above, the ends of the pectoral fins spinous, those on the head long, close set, 

 like seal bristles. Profile suddenly descending from the prefrontal region to 

 the premaxillary region, arched from the former point backwards. Eye 3-5 

 times in head, 2-66 times in muzzle ; length of head 3-5 times in total includ- 

 ing caudal fin. Radii, D. 8, A. 7 Caudal fin even with prominent points, 

 concave when closed. Anal fin behind opposite the dorsal. Frontal width 

 1-25 times in orbit. Length four inches. 



Color, below to a line from the chin to tne inferior third of the caudal fin, 

 white ; above yellowish passing into brown on the dorsal region. The latter 

 color is faintly verniculated with the paler color, as it descends on the sides. 

 Fins uniform straw colored ; a brown spot at the base of the pectoral fin. 



This species differs in color from T. turgidus Mitch., and in the less extent 

 and longer form of the spines, as well as in the declive front. The young of 

 T. turgidus of one-fifth the length have a more slender muzzle and other char- 

 acters of the adult. The numerous dorsal bristles and form of the cranium 

 distinguish it from T. Isevigatus. It was found by Samuel Powell at Newport, 

 R. I., with the following species : 



Tetraodon geometricus L. Anechisoma Kaup, Voy. Sulphur, plate. 



A West Indian species not before detected on the coasts of the United States. 

 We have it from the Mexican coasts and from Panama. 



Supplementary note on two new fishes from the Southern Coast. 



Centropristis subligarius Cope. 



Radii, D. X. 14 ; A. III. 8. Scales, counted transversely to vent, b\ 48 18. 

 Median dorsal spines subequal, median anal appressed extending beyond basis 

 of anal fin. Caudal fin truncate behind. Form elongate oval, the head narrow 

 conical, its profile continuous with that of the anterior back, together de- 

 scending regularly from D. I to the end of the acute muzzle. Mandible pro- 

 jecting a ltttle beyond upper lip. Maxillary bone extending to opposite pos- 

 terior margin of pupil. Operculum with three points, the superior very 



*(B. capriseus type); the description is taken from a specimen only 3 - 5 inches in length- 



[Oct. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



short. Maxillary smooth ; cheeks and operculum scaly, the cheek minutely. 

 Scales ceasing on vertex at a point behind a vertical drawn from the posterior 

 margin of the pupil. Interorbital width -70 of the diameter of the orbit. 

 Latter a little less than length of muzzle, four times in length of head to base 

 of longest spine. Depth at ventral fins 2-75 times in length without caudal 

 fin. Length of head (without opercular flap) 2-66 times in same. 



The coloration is handsome. Ground chocolate brown, the cheeks interoper- 

 culum, mandible and maxillary region with a coarse net-work of "white lines. 

 Pectoral region paler, and fading on the belly to a white and then metallic 

 citron yellow, which is bounded abruptly by the ground color behind, at a 

 point a little in advance of the anal fin. The posterior outline rises irregu- 

 larly halfway to the lateral line and then turns forward and descends a short 

 distance behind the pectoral fin. From this patch backwards to the b;t<is of 

 the caudal fin there are five vertical cross-bands, two on the peduncle and two 

 rising from the anal fin. The latter diverge above and another band rises, 

 expanding to the point of junction of the dorsal fins, and spreads in a rounded 

 black spot to their margin. The pectoral and caudal fins are white, with 

 rows of small brown spots, the second dorsal and anal brown with rows of 

 small white spots. 



Length 0m 075 ; to basis DI. -02G, to basis of anal -044; longest dorsal 

 spine -010 ; depth caudal peduncle -0095 ; length do. above -0055. 



The habitat of this sea perch is the southern coast near Pensacola. It was 

 contained in a bottle with Abastor erythrogrammus, Elaps fulvius, etc. Its 

 zoological affinities are to the C. phoebe of Poey, and other West Indian 

 species ; it is one of the most elegant of the genus. 



Gobiesox strumosus Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii, D. XI ; C. 16; A. 10 ; P. 21. Head exceedingly wide, width 2 5-6ths 

 times in total including caudal fin. This width is partly produced by a large 

 fleshy mass which extends from the end of the prominent extremity of the 

 maxillary bone to the end of the inter operculum. Subopercular spine short, 

 stout. Eyes small, diameter 2-5 times ia interorbital width, over seven times 

 in head, more than twice in muzzle. Superior dental series twelve on each 

 side externally, but the three median conceal some series of which the second 

 three external 'are a continuation. Inferior teeth eleven on each side; four 

 median incisors, horizontal and subequal ; no marked canine. Vertex flat, 

 profile descending abruptly from posterior line of the orbits to labial margin. 

 Anterior basis of dorsal in front of last fourth of length exclusive of caudal 



length two and a half inches. Color in spirits bluish lead-color ; fins 



From 'Hilton Head, S. Carolina. Presented to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences by Thos. J. Craven. 



Note on Fishes from Atlantic City, N, J. 

 A small and interesting collection of fishes, made at the above locality was 

 placed in my hands for determination by Edward S Keed. He has added two 

 species to the marine fauna of New Jersey, which I here note : 



Priacanthus altus Gill, supra. 



Hemirhamphos maororhtnchus C. V. Putnam, Proceed. Bost. Soc. X. H , 

 1870, p. 236. 

 This West Indian species was not known from the Eastern coast of the 

 UnHed States prior to Hie notice of Prof. Putnam, above cited, who procured 

 it from the coast of Massachusetts. 



1870.] 



r 




122 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



November 1st. 

 Wm. S. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Prof. Leidy exhibited the tooth of a reptile which had been submitted to 

 his examination from the Smithsonian Institution. The specimen, he ob- 

 served, was especially interesting, as it apparently pertained to a mosasau- 

 roid, and was obtained from the miocene tertiary deposit of Gay Head, Mar- 

 tha's Vineyard. 



The crown of the tooth is curved conical, and is without divisional planes. 

 The inner surface is only feebly defined from the outer, by a single imper- 

 fectly developed ridge postero-iuternally. 



The enamel is singularly roughened, due to short vermicular, somewhat 

 ramifying and more or less interrupted ridges, giving it a fretted or lettered 

 appearance. The transverse section of the crown is circular. 



The fang of the tooth, broken below and on the inner side so as to expose 

 the interior pulp cavity, is longer than the crown and very gibbous. It is 

 curved in the direction of the crown and is ovoidal in shape. The texture of 

 the fang appears as dense as ivory. No impress exists on the exterior of the 

 fang, resulting from contact with a successional tooth, but a deep groove oc- 

 cupies its inner side at the terminal extremity. 



The crown is broken at its apex, but when perfect has been about 16 

 lines long, measured on the outer side. The diameter at base is a little over 

 half the length. The fang has been about two inches long; its diameter is 

 17 lines. * 



The tooth evidently indicates an animal heretofore unknown to us, and I 

 therefore propose for it the name of Graphiodon yjnearius ; the generic term 

 having allusion to the lettered appearance of the enamel of the tooth. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that he had recently received from Prof. 

 Hayden's expedition a collection of fossils, mostly consisting of remains of 

 turtles and crocodiles. He formerly had expressed surprise at the absence of 

 remains of the latter among the great profusion of remains of mammals and 

 turtles in the Mauvaises Terres deposits of White River and the sands of the 

 valley of the Niobrara River. He now felt some wonder at seeing so many 

 crocodilian remains, apparently of cotemporaneous age with some of the 

 latter. The reptilian remains are generally in a very fragmentary condition, 

 and bave been picked up from the surface of the country. Several unde- 

 scribed species of turtles were recognizable, but these would be characterized 

 at a later period. 



From among the crocodilian remains he had been able to obtain a large 

 portion of those of a skull of Crocodilos Elliotti, indicated a few evenings 

 ago from a jaw fragment. The skull appears to have nearly the form of that 

 of G- vulgaris and C. biporcalus. It is about a foot and a half in length. 

 Teeth appear to have been absent at the extreme fore part of the jaw. Im- 

 mediately behind their usual position the palate presents a deep pit at each 

 side of the naso-palatine orifice. The jaw is deeply indented laterally, just 

 back of the position of the fourth tooth, and a less indentation is situated 

 back of the ninth tooth. 



Prcf. Leeds called attention to a crystalline specimen of the variety of 

 Apatite called Staffelite, which he had not previously noticed in that condi- 

 tion. 



Mr. Willard made some remarks on a deposit of clay, of which a specimen 

 was presented this evening. The deposit, at White Hall, Bordentovvn, N. J., 

 had been found to be too hard and tough for digging, and required blasting 

 to be removed. 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. l'J', 



November 8th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled, " Bud Varieties," 

 by Thomas Meehan. 



Prof. Leidy directed attention to some remains of reptiles on the table 

 which were part of the collection of fossils recently sent to him from Wyo- 

 ming by Prof. Hayden. They consist of the remains of three species of tur- 

 tles and a lacertian, which were briefly characterized and named as follows : 



Emys Jbanesi. The species is founded upon a shell consisting of the nearly 

 complete carapace and sternum, the former much crushed and distorted late- 

 rally. The carapace has been prominently convex, with the margins acute 

 and without conspicuous indentations. The sternum is as well developed as 

 in our common living emydes and of the same shape. The fore part of the 

 sternum forms a semicircle slightly truncate ; the back part Is moderately 

 notched, the notch being about half an inch in depth. 



The intermediate vertebral scutes are longer than broad, and their anterior 

 margin is transversely bow-like, with a deep median angle forward. The sides 

 of the second vertebral scute, joining the first pair of costal scutes, are con- 

 vex outwardly ; joining the second of the latter, are convex inwardly. 



The axillary and inguinal scutes are broader than long. The abdominal 

 and femoral scutes are of nearly equal depth, about 2 J inches; the humeral 

 are half an inch less; and the pectoral and caudal an inch less. 



The sternum is a foot in length ; its anterior portion is 3J inches deep and 

 5 inches wide ; its posterior portion 3f inches deep and 5J inches wide. 



The length of the carapace in the curve has been about fifteen inches ; the 

 width about nine and a half inches. 



The species I have dedicated to my friend Joseph Jeanes, through whose aid 

 we have been enabled to make many additions to the store of palajontological 

 knowledge. 



Emys Haydeni. This species is founded upon an imperfect carapace of an 

 animal probably about the size of the last, but which had not yet reached 

 maturity. It may be distinguished from it by the form of the scute impres- 

 sions. The intermediate vertebral scutes are longer than broad, as in the for- 

 mer. The anterior border of the second vertebral scute is straight, as are 

 also the sides of junction with the first pair of costal scutes, the three lines 

 together forming three sides of a square. The anterior border of the third 

 vertebral scute is nearly straight ; and that of the fourth is deeply bow-like 

 aud convex backward. 



Notwithstanding I have already dedicated several extinct species of animals 

 to my friend Prof. Hayden, I still add another to the list in commemoration of 

 the very many discoveries he has made in vertebrate palasontology. 



Baena arenosa. The genus and species are founded on the greater part of 

 the shell of a turtle, with the carapace broken away in front and fractured in 

 other positions. The sternum, more perfect, has lost its fore extremity. The 

 shell belonged to a mature animal, as indicated by the obliteration of the su- 

 tures of the plates composing the carapace. The surface of the latter, but 

 more especially that of the sternum, presents a finely fretted appearance. 



The carapace is moderately convex and bears a resemblance to that of our 

 common Snapper {Chelydra serpentina). It is, however, not depressed along 

 the middle, which is the most elevated portion of the fossil. The lateral mar- 

 ginal plates are comparatively large and broad, and are abruptly bent. The 

 posterior portion of the carapace, both laterally and at the extremity, is 



1870.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



notched much in the same manner as in the Snapper. The intermediate ver- 

 tebral scute impressions have nearly the form and proportions as in the latter, 

 but are not carinated in the median line, and the posterior line of the fourth 

 vertebral scute impression is deeply and widely notched forward. 



The sternum is very unlike that of the Snapper, and rather approaches that 

 of the emydes in its form and proportions. The interspaces of the carapace 

 and sternum are, however, intermediate in capacity to those in the former 

 and latter. The sternal pedicels are deep and wide, and are impressed by a 

 pair of large scutes, separating the large axillary and inguinal scute, as in the 

 existing Dermatemys. The posterior extremity of the sternum in outline is 

 half oval and feebly notched. 



When complete the shell has measured between a foot and fourteen inches 

 in length and about ten inches in breadth. The sternum has been about ten 

 and a half inches long; its pedicels are f>\ inches deep; and its posterior ex- 

 tremity is 3 inches long by 4^ inches wide at base. 



For the genus I have adopted a name which, according to Prof. Hayden, is 

 used by one of the Indian tribes of the Upper Missouri as that of a turtle. 

 The species I propose to name Baena arenosa. 



Saniwa ensidexs. Among the fossils obtained in Prof. Haydeu's expedi- 

 tion are the remains of a lacertian, labeled as having been discovered near 

 " Granger." The bones consist of those of most parts of the skeleton, but are 

 all in a fragmentary condition, and are imbedded in freshly broken pieces of 

 an ash- colored rack. Before disturbance they appear to have been mostly 

 entire and preserved nearly in conjunction. They are black, and their inte- 

 rior is occupied with crystalline calcite. 



Fragments of bones exhibit well developed limbs, with long toes, strong 

 ribs, and a long tail, altogether indicating a form like that of ordinary living 

 lacertians. The long bones, even to those of the toes, are hollow. The ver- 

 tebrae exhibit the ball and socket articulation of their bodies, but only a sin- 

 gle pair of zygapophyses iu front and behind. No zygantral and zygosphenal 

 articulation appears to have existed. 



The articular ball of the vertebral body is much wider than high, and is 

 directed upward, with an inclination backward. 



The body of several dorsals is quite straight inferiorly. fore and aft, and 

 measures half an inch in length. The ball is four lines wide, and about half 

 as thick. The breadth at the anterior zygapophyses is eight lines, and at the 

 articulations for the ribs, just exterior to the latter, three-fourths of an 

 inch. 



An anterior caudal has its body the same length as in the preceding. Its 

 ball is 3i lines by 2\ thick. The width at the anterior zygapophyses is half 

 an inch. 



Hypapophyses for the articulation of chevrons are situated one-fourth the 

 length of the body from the posterior extremity. 



A tooth was found, after careful search, in proximity to what appear to be 

 traces of the skull. It consisted of the crown, broken from its connection, 

 the character of which therefore cannot be ascertained. 



The crown of the tooth is compressed conical, slightly curved inwardly and 

 backward, sharp-pointed, with abruptly impressed trenchant borders ; is 

 smooth and shining. It is hollow and has thick walls. The transverse sec- 

 tion is rhomboidally oval, with acute poles. The length is about \\ lines; the 

 breadth f of a line ; the thickness \ a line. 



The remains would indicate an animal as large as the largest of our living 

 iguanians. 



For the generic name of the animal I would propose to use the euphonious 

 one of Saniwa, which, according to Prof. Hayden, is that used by one of the 

 Indian tribes of the Upper Missouri for a rock lizard. The species may be 

 named Saniwa ensidens. 



[Nov. 



Issued November 29th, 1870. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Mr. Thomas Meehax referred to a potato presented to the Academy some 

 months ago by Mr. Heuszey, a member, which had the appearance of one po- 

 tato growing out of the centre of another. The opinion of all who sa* it 

 was that it was really a case of this kind. It had been handed to him by tin' 

 curators, and on dissection, though no exact place of origin could be traced 

 there seemed nothing to indicate any other theory of origin than that one po- 

 tato had really grown out of the centre of the other. 



But there were serious physiological reasons in the way of such a theory. 

 A potato tuber is really but a thickened axis, in which the" greater part of the 

 interior structure would be incapable of developing a bud which would pro- 

 duce a tuber such as this one had done. The origin of a new tuber from an 

 old one would be nearer the obi ones surface. He had been looking for some 

 further explanatory facts, and believed he had them here this evening, in the 

 potato tubers he now handed to the members. They were about the size of 

 hen eggs, and were pierced in every dircetion by stolons of the common couch 

 grass, Triticum repens. They had gone completely through, as if they were so 

 much wire, and in one instance two tubers had become strung together by 

 the same stolon, as if they were two beads on a string. One would suppose 

 that the apex of the stolon, when it came in contact with the hard surface of 

 the tuber, would turn aside and rather follow the softer line of the earth ; but 

 there was no appearance of any inclination to depart from their direct course. 

 They had gone apparently straight through. He had no doubt the potato be- 

 fore referred to was a similar case, a potato stolon had penetrated another potato, 

 and instead of going through as these grass spears had done, terminated in 

 the centre, and formed the new potato there. 



It was worthy of thought whether so much attention had been given to this 

 direct force in plants as the subject deserved. It was well known that a 

 mushroom would lift a paving stone many times it own weight, rather than 

 turn over and grow sideways, which it would appear so much easier for it to 

 do ; and tree roots growing against walls would throw immensely strong ones 

 over, though one would think the pressure against the softer soil would give 

 room for their development, without the necessity of their expending so much 

 force against the wall. 



November 15th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



A paper was presented for publication entitled " A Sketch of the 

 Classification of the American Anserinse," by B. H. Bannister. 



Prof. Leidy directed attention to some fossil bones which had been sub- 

 mitted to his examination by Prof. J. D. Whitney. According to the accom- 

 panying label, they were found under Table Mountain, near Shaw Flat, Tuo- 

 lumne Co., California. 



The bones are friable, and have attached portions of a light ash colored 

 gravel. Several masses of the latter substance, accompanying the bones, 

 contain casts of some fruit. 



The bones are as follow : 



1. A metacarpal bone of a ruminant of large size. In form and construc- 

 tion it bears more resemblance to that of the Lama and Camel, than of other 

 ruminants with which I have the means of comparing it. As in the Lama 

 and Camel the lower articular extremities are divergent, and the articular 

 surfaces are provided with a median ridge only at the back part. In ordinary 

 ruminants, as in the Ox, Deer, Sheep, etc., the median ridge is produced the 

 entire extent fore and aft of the articular surfaces. The peculiar arrangement 



1870.] 9 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in the extinct animal, as in the Lama and Camel, allowed a greater spread or 

 divergence of the toes in the extended condition. The fossil bone is 19 inches 

 long; the breath of its proximal end is 3i inches, of its distal end 4 inches. 

 In the skeleton of a Camel in our museum, the corresponding bone is 13 

 inches long. 



2. The distal extremity of another metacarpal of the same animal. 



3. The proximal end of a femur, probably of the same animal, with the 

 head of the bone 3 inches in diameter. An acetabulum of corresponding size 

 appears to have belonged to the same individual. 



4. Two fragments of a tibia probably of the same animal. 



The bones mentioned probably represent a large extinct species of Lama, 

 which may be distinguished with the name of Auchexia Califorxica. Perhaps 

 the fossils represent a distinct genus, allied to the Lama, but this is a ques- 

 tion only to be determined by the discovery of other and more characteristic 

 remains of the animal. 



5. A first phalanx, in the collection, resembles in form that of a represent- 

 ation of the same bone in the Lama, and is about the size of that in the 

 Camel. Perhaps it belongs to a small individual of the preceding extinct 

 form; probably to a smaller species. It is 3J inches long, Ij inch wide at 

 the proximal end, and l inch wide at the distal end. The articulation of 

 the latter is not expanded beneath, as in the Camel, for the apposition of the 

 sesamoid bones. 



6. The proximal three-fourths of a metacarpal, probably of a Deer. It is 

 of rather more robust proportions than the corresponding bone of the Virgi- 

 nia Deer. 



7. An incisor tooth of a small Horse, partially imbedded in a coherent 

 mass of gravel, which also contains the impress of a nut-like fruit. 



8. Portion of a tibia of a small Horse, probably pertaining to the same 

 individual as the tooth just mentioned. 



9. The lower extremity of a metacarpal, probably of the same Horse. It 

 is proportionately thicker and less wide than in the corresponding bone of 

 the Domestic Horse. The articulation is \h inch wide, and 16 lines fore and 

 aft at the median ridge. 



The equine remains perhaps belong to a Hipparion. 



10. A few fragments of undetermined bones of other animals. 



Prof. Leidy further directed attention to a fossil fragment of the lower jaw 

 of a small pachyderm, which Prof. Hayden had obtained from Henrj's Fork 

 of Green River, Wyoming. The specimen contained the fourth, the sixth and 

 the seventh molars. The teeth resemble in form and constitution those of 

 the Lop Mother turn cervulum, a small pachyderm, described by Prof. Gervais, 

 from an eocene formation of France. The crowns of the fourth to the sixth 

 molars have four lobes ; that of the seventh molar has an additional lobe. 

 The crescentic summit of the postero-external lobe joins, by its anterior horn, 

 the antero-internal lobe. A proportionately well developed basal ridge em- 

 braces the crowns, except internally, where it is entirely absent. The series 

 of the back four molars occupies a space of 16 lines. The last molar is Sp- 

 lines fore and aft. The base of the jaw is nearly straight the length of the 

 fragment, which is an inch and a half. The depth of the jaw below the fifth 

 molar is half an inch. The species may be named Lophiotherium sylva- 

 ticum. 



Prof. Leidy also remarked that the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal 

 Society of London, Pt. II, 1869, presented this evening, contained a paper by 

 Prof. Owen, on the fossil remains of Equities from Central and South Ame- 

 rica. It was of special interest to him on account of its being accompanied 

 with excellent illustrations of the dentition of the various species of existing 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



horses, which, in the absence of original specimens, afforded him the oppor- 

 tunity of making comparisons with the many equine teeth discovered in the 

 tertiary and quaternary deposits of North America. 



Prof. Owen describes a new species of Equus from South America, which 

 he names E. arcidens. From peculiarities of the teeth, he refers this species, 

 together with two others, also from South America, and named by Dr. Lund 

 E. principalis and E. neogaeus, to a genus with the name of Hippidion. From 

 some of the more important distinctive characters, viz., the extension back- 

 ward alone of the internal peninsular folds on the triturating surface of the 

 upper molars, a dozen years ago was established the genus Protohippus (Pr. A. 

 N. S. 1858, 26, with reference to fig. 1, pi. 7 of Gervais' Rech. s. 1. Mammiferea 

 Fossiles de l'Amerique meridionale). On the same grounds were also included 

 in this genus the E. principalis and E. neogaeus of Lund, together with E. mc 

 gnathus of Gervais, so far as the remains of the latter appeared to me to be 

 the equivalent of E. principalis, (Extinct Mammalia of Dakota and Nebraska, 

 &c, 1869, 276)* 



The species of equine animals referable to the genus thus far indicated are 

 as follow- : 



PROTOHIPPUS, Leidy, 1858. 

 Hippidion, Owen, 1869. 



1. Protohippus perditus 



Equus [Protohippus) perditus, Leidy : Pr. A. N. S. 1858, 26 ; Ext. Mam. Fauna 

 of Dakota, &c. 1869, 27 5, 327, 401. 



2. Protohippus arcidens. 



Equus arcidens, Owen : Phil. Tr. Roy. Soc. London, 1870, 559. 

 Equus [Hippidion) arcidens, Oweu : Ibidem, 572. 



3. Protohippus principalis. 



Equus principalis, Lund: K. Danske Vidensk. Selskab. 93, pi. xlix, fig. I. 

 Equus neogaeus, Gervais : Rech. Mammif. Fos. de l'Amer. Merid. 1855, 33, pi. 

 vii, fig. 1. 



Equus macrognathus, Gervais : Ibidem, pi. vii, fig. 1. 

 Equus (Hippidion) principalis, Owen: Phil. Tr. 572, 573. 



1. Protohippus neogaeus. 



Equus neogaeus, Lund: K. Danske Vid. Sels. 93, xlix, fig. 3. 

 Equus [Hippidion) neogaeus, Owen: Phil. Tr. 572, 573. 



5. Protohippus placidus. 



Leidy : Ext. Mam. Fauna of Dakota, &c. 277, 328, 401. 



6. Protohippus supremus. 



Leidy: Ext. Mam. Fauna of Dakota, &c. 328, 401. 



In the same Transactions appears a paper, by Prof. W. Thomson, ' on llol- 

 tenia, a 

 The genus 

 N. S. 1868, 

 tenia Carpe 

 leads me to suspect that the two are probably the same. 



November 22d. 

 Mr. J. D. Sergeant in the Chair. 

 Six members present. 



* On we 2G1 of the Ext. Mam. Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, fig?. 2 3, have been 

 erroneously quoted instead of fig. 1 of Gervais, pi. vii, of the Rech. sur . Mammif. Foa 

 de l'Amer. Merid. 



1870.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



November 29th. 



The President, Dr. Kuschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three members present. 



The report of the Microscopical and Biological Section for Sep- 

 tember, October and November was read, and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee. 



The publication of pages 10^ to 124 inclusive, of the Proceedings 

 for 1870 was announced. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 



E. Wildman, M. D., David L. Collier, William H. Dougherty, 

 W.H. Wahl, M. D., Chas. Schaffner, M. D., J. EwingMear?; M.D. 



On favorable report of the Committees the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed. 



BTJD VARIETIES. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



A few years ago, Mr. Isaac Burk, of the Academy, called my attention to a 

 form of Rubus villosus, L., in which the terminal leaflet was very large, cor- 

 date, and on very long petioles. It is a very striking variety, the leaflets 

 appearing at first glance like large linden leaves. He found them in Dela- 

 ware County. I have since gathered the same form near the intersection in 

 Chester County, near Port Clinton on the Reading Railroad, and along the 

 west bank of the Susquehanna, between Harrisburg and the mouth of the 

 Juniata. 



The general forms of Rubus villosus are found uniformly in all parts of the 

 State, and, of course, without any break in their appearance between the 

 localities named above. The plant so easily maintains its existence by pieces 

 of roots, and grows as well in sunshine as in shade, in dry and poor as well 

 as in rich and damp places, that it is not easily eradicated when once it obtains 

 possession of the soil. On the idea that varieties originated from one common 

 centre, it is not easy to account for the existence of the same forms so many 

 miles apart, as we find in the above, except by the accidental carrying of seeds. 



But I have reason to believe that seeds of Rubus rarely germinate in a wild 

 state. In experiments which I have made in raising the seed artificially, none 

 of the seedlings come exactly like the parent. There is a certain general 

 resemblance, but some distinction, more or less, can be traced in each indi- 

 vidual But, in native places, one exact form will be found to occupy exten- 

 sive tracts. Sometimes several forms will be together, but only a very few. 

 If the seeds made plants readily, there would be innumerable forms, instead 

 of the very few we see. I found, in my experiments, that it took a long time 

 for a blackberry seed to germinate ; sometimes a whole year. Such seedlings 

 have a poor chance to vegetate in a state of nature. Other more rapidly- 

 growing vegetation would crowd it out. The only distributing agency I can 

 think of is that of birds. But I find no birds eat blackberry seeds; and, if 

 they did, when we consider that of the millions of seeds which fall about the 

 place of their origin, few, if any grow ; the chance of those growing which 

 birds may carry, even if there be some to eat them, which I have failed to 

 find, is extremely small. Hence, we find great difficulty in believing that 

 identical forms of Rubus, widely separated, can have originated from a com- 

 mon centre. 



Something like this exists in some forms of Rubus occidentalis. There is a 

 form with a fruit having soft pulp, of a light purplish red, and comparatively 

 few seeds. This is known amongst botanists, though I do not know that a 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



description has been published, as R. neglectus, Peck. This form is found in 

 isolated places in New York, Northern Pennsylvania, Ohio, ami Lown, and per- 

 haps elsewhere. As in the case ot the form of R. villosus referred to, there 

 does not seem to be any connection between the localities, as a common cen- 

 tre spreading by roots would imply, while there is the same difficulties in the 

 way of spreading by seeds as in the other. How, then, does this form origi- 

 nate in these widely separated places. 



Horticulture may help us to answer this question. It is well known that 

 fruits, after being grown for some time in one locality, will change their char- 

 acters to such an extent that a person acquainted with one will fail to recog- 

 nize it elsewhere, and all this without the intervention of any seminal power. 

 Thus, the nectarine is believed to be a bud evolution from a peach ; the Penn 

 apple is a similar creation from Baldwin, and the Reading from the common 

 Isabella grape. Though apparently originating in this way from external or 

 local causes, the characters peculiar in this change are retained when, by 

 grafts or cuttings, the plants are removed to other localities. It has also been 

 noted that the pears grown at Rochester, New York, have longer stems than 

 the same varieties grown further south ; but I do not know whether this pecu- 

 liarity, once originated, would follow the grafts or cuttings taken from them. 

 The curled-leaved willow, Salix babylonica annularis, was a branch from the 

 common weeping willow, which character it usually retains, though sometimes 

 a branch, resembling the common weeping, will push out from the tree. Of 

 like character is the well-known instance of purple-flowered laburnums some- 

 times pushing out from the common yellow-flowered one. But perhaps the 

 best known iustances are those of the common potato. It is not at all unfre- 

 quent to find some of quite another character and color in the same hill. 

 Those who contend for seed agency as the sole originator of varieties will 

 rather believe that there was some other variety of potato accidentally planted 

 with the other than that a new variety sprung from the bud alone. But the 

 evidence of origin from the same original potato-set has, in many instances, 

 been too direct to be doubted; but, even here, rather than admit the doctrine 

 of development through buds, I have heard it assumed, by intelligent botanists, 

 that the flowers in such cases must have b-en impregnated with other pollen, 

 and, in some way, the descending sap brought about a sort of hybridism or 

 bud change in these tubers. I have also heard excellent and leading botan- 

 ists (two of them authors of some of our leading works) suggest that many 

 of the varieties of Rubus in existence must be " hybrids." Of course, this is all 

 assumption, founded on extensive observation, no doubt ; but yet on probably 

 no better foundation than my own idea with which I set out in this paper 

 that often, at least in the cases I have referred to, hybridization is highly im- 

 probable. 



I have here, however, and exhibit with this paper, evidence of bud varia- 

 tion, in which there is no possibility of hybridism. A root of the common 

 sweet potato, Convoleulus batatas, in which some of the tubers are of the red 

 Bermuda, and the others of the white Brazilian variety. 



The sweet potato never flowers in this part of the country, so that seminal 

 power could have had no influence whatever on the phenomenon. Even in 

 the south, and I believe elsewhere, where this plant is cultivated for its roots, 

 it rarely flowers, and I think there is little doubt but that the whole ten or 

 twelve varieties under culture have originated without seed, and in the way 

 we see them here. 



The points I wish to make in this paper are : 



1st. That identical varieties sometimes appear in localities unfavorable to 

 the idea of a common centre of origin. 



2d. Varieties have originated in which probably no hybridism or any seminal 

 agency operated. 



3d. Varieties have certainly originated in the sweet potato by evolution, 



1870.J 




130 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



without seminal agency, and that the same variety in this way has appeared 

 in widely-separated districts. 



4th. As the discoveries of Darwin have shown in many cases, varieties to be 

 the parents of species, species may originate in widely-separated localities 

 by bud variation. 



A Sketch of the Classification of the American ANSERINiE. 

 BY B. H. BANNISTER. 



The following remarks are based upon an examination of the specimens of 

 American geese in the collection of the Smithsonian Institution. 



The subfamily Anserina? by many recent authors is made to include the 

 genera Dendrocygna and Chenalopex, and doubtless correctly. In the present 

 paper, however, we shall not consider these genera, leaving them provision- 

 ally out of the subfamily; if included, they would form at least one well 

 marked section, following those we are about to describe. 



The distinguishing characters of the Anserime, as thus limited to the true 

 geese, are, the lengthened tarsus, covered with hexagonal or subquadrate 

 scales; the neck more elongated than in the ducks and less so than in the 

 swans ; the short, high bill gradually narrowing toward the tip, which is 

 altogether composed of the large recurved nail ; together with the more or 

 less terrestrial habit of life, and the usually similar plumage of the two 

 sexes. 



The geese of the North American continent have been long known, and 

 being for the most part closely allied to, and in many cases identical with, 

 well known European forms, they fall readily into the systematic subdivisions 

 based upon the latter. In the temperate regions of South America, however, 

 the Anserinae are of a rather aberrant type, and have been less completely 

 studied. They differ chiefly from the North American and European species 

 in possessing metallic tints on the plumage, and in having in two of the 

 genera the coloration of the two sexes Widely different. These differences 

 appear to be exclusively regional, none of the aberrant forms being found in 

 North America, and vice ver.su. 



Another basis of division of the American Anserinre is found in the 

 presence, in two species one North American aud the other a Southern form 

 of deep rough superorbital depressions and reversed relative proportions of 

 the tarsus and middle toe, together with an exclusively sea- coast habitat, aud 

 a carnivorous diet, corresponding iu some of these respects to the Oidemise 

 and Somaterise amongst the ducks. 



These latter characters we have taken as the basis of the two sections into 

 which we divide the subfamily, as at present considered, since they correspond 

 with equivalent characters in one of the subdivisions of the Fuligulinse. The 

 presence of the deep superorbital depressions is a very general character 

 amongst the carnivorous natatores, though not universal. 



The following is offered as an outline of the divisions and genera of the 

 subfamily, noting briefly the principal generic characters, the American spe- 

 cies and their geographical distribution. The principal characters of the 

 subfamily have been already given at sufficient length. 



Subfamily ANSERINE. 



Section A. Anserese. Habits terrestrial ; tarsi longer than middle toe with 

 claw, skull without superorbital depressions. 



a. Typical. Plumage without metallic reflections, color of sexes invariably 

 similar. 



1. ANSER, Vieill. 



Gm. Char. Bill as short as head or shorter, gaping at the sides, the lamel- 



[Nov. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



lae appearing prominently below the edge of the upper mandible Bill and 



feet light colored; colors of plumage generally sober, the shades of brown 

 and gray predominating. 



Species Arise?- hyperboreus, Pall. N. America and West Indies. 

 " rossii, Baird. Central regions 11. 15. Terr. ; Cain. 

 " cmrulescens, L. Central U. S. ; Hudson's Bay. 

 " ferus. ? Pr. William's Land. 

 " segetum, Gm. ? Hudson's Bay. 

 " gambelli, Hartl. N. America. 



2. BRANTA SCOPOLL* 



Gen. Char. Bill short, lamelhe not projecting below upper mandible. Bill 

 and feet black; neck always black. 



Species Branta canadensis, L. N. America. 



" hutchinsii. Rich. & Sw. N. America. 

 " bernicla, L. Eestern and central N. America. 

 " nigricans, Lawr. West coast of N. America. 

 " leucopsis, Bechst. N. E. of N. America. Rare, 

 b. Aberrant. Plumage with metallic reflections on speculum ; colors of 

 sexes not invariably similar. Membrane of toes somewhat scolloped out in 

 front. 



3. ORESSOCHEN, n g. 



Gen. Char. Bill very robust, light colored, lamella; not projecting. Fret 

 robust, light colored, hallux well developed. Plumage of sexes similar; 

 colors simple. 



Species Oressochen melanopterus, Gay. Highland regions of Chili. 



4. CHLCETROPHUS, n. g. 



Gen. Char. Bill moderate, black. Feet particolored, black and orange. 

 Colors of sexes similar. Plumage rather brilliant for this subfamily. 



Species Chlcelrophus poliocephalus, Gray. Coasts of Patagonia and adjacent 



islands. 

 ' rubuliceps, Sclater. Falkland Islands. 



5. CHLCEPHAGA, Eyton. 



Gen. Char. Bill as in the last genus. Feet varying in color with the sex 

 black in the male, yellow in the female. Plumage of the two sexes quite dif- 

 ferent, and generally less bright colored than in Chlcetrophus. 



Species CIdoephaga magellanica, Gm. Chili and Patagonia. 

 " * picta, Gm. " " 



Section B. Philactese. Skull with well marked rough superorbital depres- 

 sions. Tarsus as short as or shorter than the middle toe with its claw. Hab- 

 its littoral. 



6. PHILACTE, n. g. 



Bill short, moderately robust, light colored, nail of both upper and lower 

 mandibles quite prominent, lamellae appearing as pointed processes in the 

 posterior part of the commissure. Feet moderate, light colored. General 

 tint of plumage light, no metallic reflections. 



Species Philacte canagica, Lewast. N. W. coast of N. America ; ? Caspian. 



* The genus Brante was adopted from Klein by Scopoli in 1769, the first species being 

 Anas bernicla, L. This, according to usage, will have to be substituted tor Bernicla of Boie 

 (Isis, 1822), and also antedates his genus Branta, established at the same time, the type of 

 which is Anasrufina, Pall. 



1870.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



7. T.ENIDIESTES, Reich. 



Gen. Char. Bill robust, varying in color with the sex, as also does the 

 plumage; lower mandible deep, nail prominent, lamellte not projecting. Feet 

 robust, varying in color with the sex, tarsus shorter than middle toe with 

 claw. Colors of female with metallic reflections on the speculum. 



Species Ttenidiestes antarctica, Gm. Southern extremity of S. America, and 

 adjacent islands; Chili. 



December 6th. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-three members present. 



Prof. Cope made some observations on a number of species of reptiles from 

 the Cretaceous beds of Kansas, which he had recently studied. He stated 

 that the specimens included parts of Eiasmosaurus platyums Cope, Polycotylus 

 latipinnis Cope, Liodon proriger Cope, and two new Liodons, which he named 

 L. ictericus and L. mudgei respectively. They both belonged to the division 

 with depressed vertebral centra, and the L. ictericus was near L. validus Cope, 

 of New Jersey, but exhibited a less anterior, and less prominent proximal 

 external angle of the quadratum. which Prof. Cope stated indicated a less 

 extensive lateral flexibility of the ramus of the mandible. 



In L. Mudgei the angle was still more posterior, and the pterygoid teeth 

 were not pleurodont, as in Platecarpus tympanitieus. Remains of the cranium 

 indicated a reptile of 30 feet in length, while those of the L. ictericus be- 

 longed to two individuals of 40 and 50 feet in length. A third new Mosa- 

 sauroid of the size of the L. Mudgei was described under the name of Clidastes 

 cineriorum. It was stated to be much the largest species of the genus, and to 

 differ from the three now known in having the plane of the articular extrem- 

 ities at right angles to the long axis of the centra, and not oblique to it. 

 From near Sheridan, Kansas ; described by Prof. B. F. Mudge. He described 

 a third new Liodon, of gigantic size, stating it to exceed by very much the 

 Mtestricht reptile, and even the Mosasaurus brumbzi Gibbes, which was till 

 now the largest known species. He pointed out the characters of the verte- 

 brae, which were very much depressed as to the centrum, which measured 5| 

 inches in diameter. It was allied to the M. brumbzi, but differed in having a 

 strong emargination of the articular faces to accommodate the neural canal. 

 He named it Liodon dyxpelor. 



Prof. Cope also exhibited the humeri and femora of Polycotylus, which 

 were like those of Ple.siosaurus, and measured 18 inches in length. 



Mr. Thomas Meghan exhibited several specimens of the Madura aurantiaca, 

 the common osage orange, in which the plants were inarched together in 

 pairs in a remarkable way. He said the osage orange was extensively grown 

 as a hedge plant, and in digging up the one year plants, these united twins 

 were usually found in the proportion of about one score in ten thousand. 

 Double kernels were common occurrences in many seeds. There were double 

 peaches, almonds, and double yolks in eggs. But these all had their separate 

 seed coverings or membranes, and the yolks their own albuminous envelopes, 

 consequently the separate embryos produced distinct plants. But these indi- 

 cated that there had been two separate embryos under one seminal covering, 

 and that the radicular portions of this double embryo, having no membrane 

 to separate them, had inarched themselves together while passing to the 

 ground. If this was the true explanation, he thought there was no such case 

 recorded. That it was true seemed probable, from the fact that all the speci- 

 mens were united in exactly the same manner, showing that time, place, and 

 the circumstances of the union were uniformly the same. The scars showed 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. }'','< 



that there were four cotyledons and two germs, and that the place of anion 

 was midway between the paira of cotyledons. From the base of the cotyledons 

 extending- the whole length of the radicle, the union existed. The length of 

 this united part was from half an inch to one inch, according to the vigor 

 of the plant. 



Another lesson he thought was afforded by these specimens. Dr. Asa Gray 

 had recently remarked, in Silliman's Journal, that European botanists still be- 

 lieved what American botanists had learned to doubt, that the radicle was a 

 true root, rather than a morphologized joint of stem. Here was, he believed, 

 an illustration of the American view. These radicles, which had evidently 

 united together under the seed coat, had elongated after protrusion, just as a 

 young shoot with all its parts formed in the bud elongates after the bursting 

 of the bud scales. They comprised the half inch, or inch united portions be- 

 fore referred to. If these radicular portions of the seed were of the nature of 

 root rather than of stem, we might expect to see lateral fibres push from them, 

 as we do see from the true roots, which start out below the union. But these 

 parts are as free from rootlets as any portion of the true stems above the coty- 

 ledon points, indicating, as had been suggested, that their properties were 

 rather of stem than of root. 



December loth. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Remarks on Dr. Asa Grav's Notes on Buckley's Rare Plants of 

 Texas." By Prof. S. B. Buckley. 



Prof Leidy exhibited a lower jaw of an aged man, recently obtained in his 

 dissecting room. The teeth had all been lost except one, and the alveolar 

 border had been absorbed so that the body of the bone was reduced as usual 

 to half its original depth. The remaining tooth is a completely developed 

 and full grown third molar of large size, which lies imbedded in the jaw hori- 

 zontally, with the unworn triturating surface directed towards the position 

 which had been occupied bv the teeth in advance. The tooth is perfectly 

 sound, and in this old jaw, in which all the other teeth had been lost and the 

 alveoli obliterated, favors the view that the teeth are liable to caries only 

 when exposed to exterior influences. Similar specimens of _ teeth remaining 

 imbedded in the jaw are not uufrequent, but the one exhibited is the oldest 

 which Prof. Leidy had seen. 



Prof. Leidy also exhibited a wood carving from St. Paul de Loando, West- 

 ern Africa, presented to him by Dr. Charles L. Cassin, U. S. N. Ihe carving, 

 by a native African, represents two adult human figures apparently of the tu o, 

 united by an intervening plate, so as to remind one of the famons Siamese 

 twins. The connection may have been merely intended for support, though 

 Prof. Leidy thought the carving may have been intended to represent a pair 

 of united twins, similar to those just named, and which existed in the locality 

 in which the carving was made. 



December 20th. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the Chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 

 1870.] 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " A new classification of the North American Falconidse, with de- 

 scriptions of three new species." By Robert Ridgway. 



Prof. Leidy directed attention to a preparation of the trunk of an adult 

 male subject, from the dissecting room of the University, iu which all the vis- 

 cera were reversed in the order of their usual position. The heart is reversed 

 in position with its apex directed to the right. The aorta descends on the 

 right side ; and the caviB are placed on the left of the vertebral column. 

 The liver is placed in the left, the spleen in the right side. The stomach is 

 reversed, and the large intestine commencing in the left iliac region termi- 

 nates in the rectum from the right side. 



Theo. D. Raxd called the attention of the Academy to a remarkable expo- 

 sure of rock on the North Pennsylvania Railroad, between Abingdon and Edge 

 Hill stations, about eleven miles from Philadelphia. The rock is Potsdam 

 sandstone, highly micaceous, in strata nearly vertical, and divided by frequent 

 joints. Its strike is about N. by E. At the point mentioned a quarry has 

 been opened following the crest of the hill, the northern end of the quarry 

 giving therefore a section. At the bottom of the excavation the layers seem 

 undisturbed and perfectly vertical, but above they are thrown to the south- 

 west and crushed and broken in a remarkable manner, the layers nearest the 

 surface being horizontal or even dipping to the S. W., but still retaining their 

 relative positions. The breaks in the rocks are fresh and sharp, and the 

 spaces between them empty, and the whole appearance is as if a very recent 

 force acting near the surface had thrown them from a vertical into their 

 present positions. Some of these spaces were two or three inches in width 

 and apparently of great depth. 



It is probable, however, that it is due to a folding of the strata, as in the 

 cut of the Railroad immediately west of this exposure. The rocks of the quar- 

 ry appear perfectly vertical while south of them, probably fifty feet, is a well 

 defined anticlinal axis or fold. Still the broken, not bent condition of the 

 rocks, their very marked and sudden change from the vertical, the freshness 

 and sharpness of the fractures seem almost irreconcilable with a fold taking 

 place as long ago as this anticlinal axis, and it is well worthy of examination 

 by geologists. 



December 27th. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the Chair. 



Thirty-four members present. 



On motion, the election of members was postponed until the next 

 meeting for business. 



Prof. Leeds called attention to an interesting geological phenomenon in 

 the vicinity of Wayne station on the Germantown Railroad, about three miles 

 from Philadelphia. At the point where Wayne street cuts through a fold in 

 the micaceous schists of this district, there occur huge imbedded boulders of 

 very hard compact hornblende rock. The matrix of mica schist has the ap- 

 pearance of an altered argillaceous slate, and rapidly decays on exposure. 

 The hornblende rocks are thus left protruding above the soil, aud would be 

 difficult to account for if attention had not previously been called to them in 

 place. As occurring in the schist, they are rounded upon their corners and 

 edges and smooth upon the sides. It does not appear an improbable con- 

 jecture to suppose that they constituted a part of a primitive surface forma- 

 tion perhaps the original earth crust which was broken up before the de- 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



position of the metamorphic rocks which make up the azoic rocks of unde- 

 termined geological age, overlying the southeastern angle oi Pennsylvania. 



And that by stream and current actions, perhaps in part by glacial, th 

 brought into the shape of boulders at a time anterior to the deposition of the 

 sedimentary' mica schists. 



And it is a fact of interest in this connection that the highly garnetiferons 

 mica schists of this district, are charged with dodecahedral garnets, which 

 probably have belonged to pre-existcnt rocks, inasmuch as their angles and 

 edges are rounded off', and the crystals reduced to an almost globular form. 

 This is true of the garnets while still firmly imbedded in the mica schists, and 

 applies to the garnetiferous mica schists extending over a wide area. 



On favorable report of the Committees, the following papers were 

 ordered to be printed. 



Remarks on Dr. Asa Gray's notes on Buckley's new Plants of Texas. 

 BY PROF. S. B. BUCKLEY. 



In the spring of 1862 Dr. Asa Gray had two papers in the Proceedings of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, both of which were reviews 

 of some new plants described by me in the same publication a few months 

 previous. I left Philadelphia prior to the appearance of Dr. Gray's papers, 

 being employed by the Sanitary Commission at Washington to make scientific 

 examinations and measurements of Soldiers for anthropological purposes. 

 See Anthropological Investigations of American Soldiers, by Dr. Gould, lately pub- 

 lished by the Sanitary Commission. At the end of the war I returned to 

 Texas, where I have been ever since. I did not see Dr. Gray's notes till Au- 

 gust, 1867. I have few Botanical works here, and no Herbarium, and have 

 delayed to notice some points in which I think Dr. Gray has not done me jus- 

 tice, in hopes to be able to have a better chance than I have here, but as 

 time is passing I will offer what facts I have now, leaving others for another 

 opportunity. 



During 1859, '60 and '61, I made a large collection of rare plants, in Geor- 

 gia, Alabama. Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas, which I had boxed and started 

 with for the North prior to the war. These were stopped and destroyed at 

 Lavaca, Texas. They were intended for, and directed to, the Academy of Na- 

 tural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The few I saved I brought with me, but I found the Herbarium of the 

 Academy not as complete as I supposed. I expected to find all the plants 

 which Nuttall had described, as well as full collections of Wright and other 

 botanists who had explored Texas and other southwestern parts of our coun- 

 try. But these were not as full as I imagined, and the Library was deficient 

 in some works which would have aided me in my investigations. I appreci- 

 ate these facts more fully now, than I did then, and can understand how very 

 likely it is that I have made some mistakes. There are very few botanists 

 who have not had to regret similar errors under similar circumstances. In- 

 deed the object of this paper is to show that Dr. Gray himself has fallen into 

 error in many particulars in the papers in which he criticises mine. For in- 

 stance, Clematis Texensis, Buckley, Dr. Gray says is his " C. viorna var. cocci- 

 nea, PI. Wr. 2 p. 7, C. coccinea, Engelman." It is referred to C. viorna with 

 the' remark that its "leaves are more glaucous, and the thick sepals of a pure 

 carmine red, very rarely purplish." I do not know that Engelman has ever 

 published his name of C. coccinea. I believe all that has been published is in 

 the extract quoted. If, therefore, it is, as I have no doubt the majority oi 

 botanists will agree with me that it is, a distinct species from C. viorna, my 

 name has the right by priority of publication. It grows in the vicinity ot 

 Austin. 



1870.] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Zanthoxylum hirwtum Dr. Gray thinks but a variety of Z. carol iniannm. 

 There is a variety I know, and I suppose this is to what Dr. Gray refers. I 

 am very familiar with it. It is abundant in the vicinity of Austin. But this 

 is always small, the largest specimens with a trunk rarely exceeding three 

 inches in diameter. This was a small tree, one foot at least in diameter, and 

 attracted my particular attention by its very peculiar appearance, as I rode 

 horseback in the vicinity of Corpus Christi. Its hairy leaves are a constant 

 and distinctive character. I expect to get specimens again. 



Ampelopsis heptaphylla Dr. Gray says is " a small leaved state of A. quinque- 

 folia, with some of the leaves 6-7 foliate." They are all, or nearly all, 7 foli- 

 ate. If A. quinquefolia were known to be variable in respect of the number of 

 leaflets on the same plant, there might be room to look for a variety with 

 another number of leaflets. But this species is noted for the regularity with 

 which it bears five leaflets only, both in the north and in the south. It grows 

 in the same locality with my A. heptaphylla, constantly with five leaflets only. 

 But this is not all ; my plant not only has 7 leaflets almost constantly, but 

 they arc smaller than A. quinquefolia, and it flowers in cymose panicles at the end 

 of April ; -while A. quinquefolia has compound racemes 3-4 inches in length, 

 and does not open its flowers till the middle or end of June. 



Vitis monticola, he says, is V. rupestris of Schule. In PlantceLindh. 2, p. 1GG, 

 Dr. Gray himself says of V. rupestris, " It does not climb, but the stems are 

 upright, and only two or three feet in height." This is right. I am familiar 

 with it. But my V. monticola does climb, sometimes to the height of 15 feet. 

 But in addition to this there is nearly two months difference in the time of ripen- 

 ing of the fruit. All the inhabitants of this region readily distinguish them 

 as different things. 



Vitis Lincecumii he refers to V. labrusca, and says that "the Louisiana 

 specimen (of Dr. Hale) exactly agrees with what we formerly cultivated in 

 Cambridge Bot. Garden as the Isabella grape." The Isabella grape is well 

 known here, yet this is readily distinguished by the people of Texas, who 

 call it the " Postoak grape." It has larger and less lobed leaves than the 

 Isabella. The Isabella has naturally but one short bunch this is shoul- 

 dered or branching; the berries drop easily from the stems these are strong- 

 ly adherent ; the skin is rather thick and the berries comparatively large, 

 while these are thin-skinned and smaller. The V. labrusca is a rampant spe- 

 cies, this rarely grows 15 feet, and often bears fruit on bush like specimens, 

 3-4 feet high. I have studied both species very closely, both before and 

 since Dr. Gray's criticisms, and can have no doubt of their distinctness. 



Vitis mustangensis Dr. Gray says " is not the mustang grape of Florida, but 

 is the well known V. candicans of Engelman." He asserts further that V. coria- 

 cea, of Shuttleworth, is a thick-leaved form of it, the V. caribma of Cbapman, 

 whether of DeCandolle I am still uncertain." I believe the only description 

 of V. candicans published, before my description of V. mustangensis, is the fol- 

 lowing from Plant. Lindh. 2, p. 166, where Dr. Gray says, "Under the name 

 of V. candicans (N. S.) Engel. ined., I have from Lindheimer, as also from Mr. 

 Wright, Texan specimens of what appears to be a variety of V. californica, 

 Beuth., with the leaves somewhat less dentate, and more densely tomentose 

 underneath." Again, in Plantce Wrightiana, p 32, in a note at the bottom of 

 the page, he states, " Vitis candicans, Engel. ined., which is also the V. coriacea 

 of Shuttleworth, PL Rugel. ex. sic. from southern Florida, is not the same as 

 Vitis californica, Benth., to which I was disposed to refer it in PI. Lindh, 2, p. 

 166. Perhaps it may be V. caribsca of D. C." If this is, as I believe, the only 

 description of V. candicans ever published, is Dr. Gray justified in terming it 

 " well known ?" Surely Dr. Gray does not own to much acquaintance with 

 jt, and makes no allusion whatever to its native name " mustang." 



Dr. Gray "warns the reader that mustang is not the name of a town or 



[Dec 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



country, as the termination cnsis would imply, but of a wild horse." I may 

 add that it is also the name of a stream along which this grape grows in 

 great abundance. 



I saw Lindheimer at New Braunfels in Texas in 1860. He told me that Gray 

 and Engelman, with whom he was in close correspondence, were both uncer- 

 tain about this grape, and that it was still undescribed. lie regarded it as 

 " scientifically unnamed." Under the Fules of priority of description, I claim 

 my name. 



It is unlikely that my mustang grape is the V. eoriacea of Shuttleworth, 

 for be it remembered I had travelled extensivly in Florida, and should have 

 seen this grape there if they had been the same, but I never saw it in Florida; 

 but the greater probability of this is that Chapman, who had resided in Flo- 

 rida 25 years, describes no such grape as mine, but refers the V. eoriacea of 

 Shuttleworth to V. caribcea, D. C, and further says the mustang of Florida is 

 &forni of V. vulpina. See Flora of .Southern States, p. 71. 



Vit is bipinnala, with which name the authority of " Torr. & Gray" is asso- 

 ciated, belongs really to Wildeuow. 



Astragalus Bruzoensis, Dr. Gray has, on a second examination, done me the 

 justice to declare a good species. 



Hoopesia arborea I am charged with " making up from a flowering speci- 

 men of Ctrcidium texanum, Gray, a fruiting one of Acacia flexicanlis, Bentb, and 

 a sterile branchlet of Acacia rigiduLt, Benth." Of course, no one would sup- 

 pose I would mix plants purposely with the object of making a new genus or 

 species. That no such a mixture was possible, I claim from the following 

 facts. I was careful to select a large number of specimens with bothjlowers 

 and fruit on the tame branch's. I also cut from sprouts which grew up from 

 the base of the tree, so that I might have all its characteristics, for I felt then 

 that it would prove to be undescribed. I f pent a long time in getting these 

 specimens. I was then engaged with Dr. Shumard in the geological survey 

 of the state. Drs. Shumard and Riddell were then with me, they in a 

 buggy, I on horseback at Corpus Christi together, and we started next day 

 for Austin, ray press and plants in the buggy. They went on hurriedly, agree- 

 ing to change my plants, I arrived in Austin three days after them, and 

 found my plants mostly spoiled.. I saved only a few damaged specimens of 

 Hoopesia. Familiar as I was with them in cutting, and again in my anxiety 

 so few days after to select from the damaged specimens the best left, 1 do not 

 see the possibility of any mistake ; but intend to take the first opportunity to 

 visit again the locality, and get specimens for the Academy and other public 

 institutions. Trees of the Hoopesia grow on the banks of the Gulf, from one to 

 two miles below Corpus Christi. 



Drejera parviflora and Morus microphylla are admitted to be good species. 



Juncus filipmdulus has also, since Dr. Gray's criticisms, been decided by 

 Dr. Engelman to be a good species. But he has chauged the name, on the 

 ground that my name is " inappropriate." My name was suggested by the 

 thread-like hanging stems of its fruit and flowers. Even were the name less 

 appropriate than it manifestly is, if botanists had a right to change names to 

 accord with each compiler's sense of fitness, how many synonyms should we 

 not have ? 



Juncus difusissimus Dr. Gray says is /. debilis. Dr. Engelman has since de- 

 cided Dr. Gray to be wrong in this, but I have not Dr. Engelman's monograph 

 by me to refer to what he decides it to be. 



Cyperus Heermanii is not referred to any other species, and 



Eleocharis microformii, though said to be " near intermedia," is probably a 

 good species also. 

 1870.] 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



For want of books and material, as I have before remarked, I am unable to 

 follow up these corrections further; but finding myself right in so many which 

 I have been able to reconsider, I hope to be able to clear myself from some of 

 the other charges in future. 



Dr. Gray was particularly severe in his preliminary remarks. He accuses 

 me of a " gross appropriation and suppression of the names of Nuttall and 

 Others, as recorded in a public herbarium." The laws of botanical nomencla- 

 ture say " a name which has never been clearly defined in some public journal 

 or work, shall be changed for the earliest, name by which the object shall have 

 thus been defined." See Edinburg Philosophical Jour.. 18G3--4. Indeed, in the 

 language of science, a plant has not been named until it has been described in 

 some "journal or work." One may by courtesy adopt a name he finds on a 

 label attached to a herbarium specimen ; but if in his opinion, from thesmall- 

 ness or imperfection of the specimen, or from other reasons, he believes the 

 interest of science would be served by the use of another name in his de- 

 scription it is his dutj- to do so. 



I feel that I have been wronged by Dr. Gray's personal remarks in his re- 

 view of my papers. Considering such a course out of place in a scientific dis- 

 cussion, I have avoided anything like retaliation. Hut I have thought it due 

 to me as the author, and the Academy ab the publisher, of the papers criti- 

 cized by Dr. Gray, that no more errors should be laid to their charge than 

 they legitimately deserve. 



A New Classification of the North American FALCONIDiE, with Descriptions of 



Three New Species.* 



BY ROBERT RIDGWAY. 



INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 



Having been engaged for a considerable time upon an investigation of the 

 North American Falconidse, I have found it necessary to arrange the sub- 

 families with their sections, the genera and their subgeneric divisions, in a 

 manner somewhat different from the classification usually adopted. The fol- 

 lowing scheme is intended to express the arrangement that I have been led to 

 make, as the result of the study alluded to. 



Of course, the classification presented is based entirely upon the external 

 anatomy, and may, very probably, be found to differ from one founded upon 

 the internal structure. As, however, the former is more convenient for prac- 

 tical purposes, and, moreover, there being no sufficient material at my com- 

 mand for a classification of the second kind, I trust that I may be excused for 

 offering one based upon comparatively artificial characters. Iu the descrip- 

 tions, every available character has been used, it having first been traced 

 through the group to test its importance. 



The present paper is intended as a preliminary to a "Monograph of the 

 North American Raptores," now completed, and soon to be published, in a 

 v.'lume of the series of reports of the " U. S. Geological Exploration of the 

 40th parallel," under the direction of Mr. Clarenue King. This work is in- 

 tended to embrace full descriptions of all the species of the order belonging 

 to the fauna of North America,! their differences from any analogue of South 

 America or Europe being expressed by a diagnostic table; in which manner 

 are also distinguished all the closely-allied species. The different stages of 

 plumage of each species are elucidated in detail, and all doubtful questions 

 as to the relationship of allied forms or the validity of others are fully dis- 

 cussed, and the complete synonymy given in full. 



* One, however, belonging only to West Indies. f As defined by Prof. Baird. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



Family FALCON ID ./.. 

 I. Eye shaded by a projecting superciliary shield* covered with naked akin. 



A. Nostril circular, with a conspicuous central bony tubercle. f 



a. Prominent tooth on commissure; lower mandible truncated, and with a 

 deep notch corresponding with the tooth on the upper. 

 1. A web or membrane uniting the outer and middle toes at their bases. 



Faleoninse. 



B. Nostril not circular, and without bony tubercle. 



a. A "ruff" or circle of short stiff feathers around the face, as in the Siri- 



gidir. 



1. Membrane between toes well developed Gircinte 



b. No ruff. 



1 Membrane well developed... Icc'pitrinse. 



2. Membrane rudimentary. Halistinx. 



II. No superciliary shield. 



G. Middle toe longer than bare portion of tarsus in front Wilvitue. 



D. Middle toe shorter than tarsus in front l'olyborinie.% 



I. Eye shaded by a projecting superciliary shield, covered with bare skin. 

 A. Nostril circular, with a central bony tubercle. 



Subfamily FALCON 1NJE. 



Bill strong, its breadth at base equalling or exceeding its height; upper 

 outline of cere rather lower than base of the culmen ; gonys much arched, 

 the chord of the arch equalling about half that of the culmen. Near the tip 

 of the upper mandible is a prominent tooth on the commissure, and near the 

 end of the lower mandible, which is truncated, is a deep notch correspond- 

 ing ; the end of the upper mandible is compressed, giving the situation of the 

 tooth an inflated appearance when viewed from above. Nostrils circular, with 

 a conspicuous central tubercle. Orbital region bare; projecting superciliary 

 shield conspicuous, arched, but not very prominent. Tail shorter than wing, 

 the feathers hard and stiff. Primaries very strong, elongated, tapering rapidly 

 toward their points; only the first or first and second with their inner webs 

 emarginated. Tarsus never with a single series of transverse scutelhe either 

 in front or behind ; middle toe very r long 



Diagnoses of generic and subgeneric divisions. 

 A. Tarsus with no transverse scuiellse, but, instead, covered with numerous irre- 

 gular small scales ; second quill longest; first always loilger than fourth ; 

 onlj' first emarginated on inner web. 

 a. Middle toe longer than tarsus the latter scarcely feathered below the 

 knee. First quill equal to or longer than third. 



Genus FALCO, Auct. 

 1. First and second quills equal; outer web of second only sinuated; 

 inner web of first emarginated ; of second, sinuated. 

 Sp. peregrinus, Gmel., and "anatum," Bonap., (= peregrinus var. analum. 



* This "shield" is formed by the bony process of the lachrymal projecting backward 

 over the orbit. In Faleoninse (only) it consists of a single nanow process: in the other 

 subfamilies, it is broader, and composed of two separate pieces, with cartilaginous junc- 

 tion, the posterior part or " hinged" plate forming the "shield. ' ,.,, 



t The only other American Falconidie, having a similar nostril, are Milvago, PkaUobimas, 

 and perhaps a few other genera, belonging to, or generally placed with, the I Olybi 

 they also have the tooth, notch, etc., of the bill decidedly indicated; other characters, 

 however separate them verv widely from the Falconina . 



J /6ycr Xne forms an exception; but the other characters of this genus are eminently 

 Polyborinx. 



1870.J 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. Second quill longest, but difference between first and second less than 

 half that between second and third. Outer web of first and second 

 sinuated : inner web of first emarginated ; of none, sinuated. 



aurantius,* rufigularis.f 

 b. Middle toe shorter than tarsus, the latter closely feathered on upper por- 

 tion ; first quill shorter than third. 



3. (Subgenus Hierofalco, Cuvier.) Outer webs of second, third and fourth 

 quills sinuated (the last only perceptibly ;) inner web o ( first eruar- 

 ginated, of second sinuated. More than the upper half of tarsus 

 feathered, the feathering interrupted behind only by a narrow (almost 

 concealed) strip from the knee downward. 



candicans,\ islandicws,\ sacer,\\ labradorus.^ 



4. (Subgenus Gennaia, Kaup.) Outer webs of second and third quills 

 sinuated; inner web of first emarginated, of second sinuated. Only the 

 upper third of the tarsus feathered ; its posterior face and the whole 

 knee bare mexicanus.**' 



B. Front of Tarsus with a double series of transverse scutellae, these alter- 

 nately joining; second and third quills equal and longest or, third 

 lougest ; first and second with inner webs emarginated. Tarsus scarcely 

 feathered below the knee. 



a. (Subgenus llypotriorchis, Boie.) Basal joint of toes with irregular scales. 



5. Third quill lougest; second and third with outer webs sinuated. 



columbarius-ff, richardsonii.W_ 



b. Basal joint of toes with transverse scutellae. 



6. Third quill longest ; second, third and fourth with outer webs sinu- 

 ated ; scutella? of tarsus and toes large and well defined, uninterrupted 

 from knees to claws .femoralis.\\ 



7. (Subgenus Tinnunculus, Vieill.) Second and third quills equal and 

 longest; second and third with outer webs sinuated. 



s/)art>m.s,|||| (with all its varieties) ; sparveroides,^ leucophrt/s.[l) 



B. Nostril not circular, and without bony tubercle. Bill variable in form, but 

 its breadth never equal to its height. t the base; gonys only mode- 

 rately convex. No "tooth "on the commissure, but, in its stead, a more 

 or less prominent " lobe " or " festoon ; " lower mandible neither trun- 

 cated nor notched. Nostril variable iu form, but never circular, and 

 never with a central bony tubercle ; though there is sometimes a carti- 

 laginous projection, to be distinguished by its different appearance and 

 situation. Tarsus, when bare, with a frontal and posterior series of 

 transverse scutellse. 



* Falco aurantius, Gmel., Syst. Nat.. 1789, 283. Falco deirolcucus, Temm., PL Col. 348, 1830. 



f Falco rufigularis, Daud.,Tr. Orn. ii. 131, 1800. (F. aurantius, Temm., PI. Col., and Cassin, 

 B. N. Am.) 



| F. candicans. Gmel., Syst. Nat,, 1789, 275. 1 



\ F. islandicus, Sab., Linn., Trans, xii., 1818, 528. 



|j .F. sueer, Forster, Phil. Trans. Ixii.,1772,383and427; Baird Trans. | 



Chicago Ac. Nat. Sc, I. ii. 271. (Hob. Interior regipns of> All races of one specie* . 

 Arctic America.) 



fl F. lahradora, Aud. B. Am., pi. 161,1831. (Hah. Littoral regions | 

 of Arctic America. J 



** F. mexicanus, " Licht, Mus. Berol," Schleg. Abh. G-eb. Zool. Vergl., 1841, p. 15 = F. polt/a- 

 grus, Cassin, B. Cal. and Tex.. 1853, 88 ; B. N. Am., 1858, 12. 



++ F. columbarius, Linn., Syst. Nat., 1760, 128 ; Hypotriorchis columbarius, Gray, List,, 1844, 

 55; Cass. R. N. Am., 1858, 9. 



XX Hypotriorchis richardsonii, nobis. Seepage 145. (Hob. Interior of Arctic Am. ; U.S. 

 between Rocky Mts. and Mississippi River.) 



M F. femoralis, Temm., PI. Col. 121, 1834, 343. Hypotriorchis femoralis, Gray Gen. B. 



if F. tparvtrius, Linn, Syst. Nat. p. 128, 17G6. Tinnunculus sparve.rius, Vieill. Ois. Am. Sept. 



flfl F. sparveroides, Vigors, Zool. Journ. III. 436, 1827. Tinnunculus sparveroides, Gray, Gen. 

 B. (Bab. Cuba.) 



(1) Tinnunculus leucophrys, nobis. See page"147. (Hab. Cuba and Hayti.) 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 1 1 



Subfamily CIRCmjE. 

 A ruff of short, stiff, close feathers around the face, as in the owls. (Strigidu 



Genus CIRCUS, Lacepede. 

 Fine bristly feathers of the lores extending upwards above the cere. Bill 

 rather weak, much compressed; upper outline of the cere forming an ascend- 

 ing plane, somewhat arched at posterior end. Nostril oval, horizontal ; super- 

 ciliary shield inconspicuous, though prominent. Tarsus more than twice the 

 length of middle toe; very slender, the icutellaa distinct. Wing long. 



1. Third and fourth quill equal and longest; second equals fifth; first 

 shorter than sixth; second, third, fourth and fifth sinuated on outer 

 webs; inner webs of outer four emarginated. 



C. hudsonicus, (Linn.,) Vieill. 



Subfamily ACCIPITRIN.E. 

 No ruff. 

 A. Accipitres. Bill much as in last; but less compressed and higher through 

 the base ; height at base exceeding chord of the culmen, the cere on top much 

 ascending basally; commissure anterior to the festoon deeply scolloped. 

 Nostril broadly ovate, obliquely horizontal. Toes very long. Wing 

 short ; fourth quill longest; second shorter than sixth ; first equal to 

 or shorter than the tenth ; outer quill bowed ; second to sixth (inclu- 

 sive) sinuated on outer webs ; inner webs of outer five emarginated. 

 Tail long, but not equal to wing. 



a. Astur, Lacepede. Upper half of tarsus feathered, the feathering scarcely 



interrupted behind, where the bare space is covered with small circular 

 scales ; base of toes and lower part of tarsus with only irregular small 

 scales A. atricapillus, (Wils.,) Bonap. 



b. Accipiter, Brisson. Less than one-third of the tarsus feathered below the 



knee; transverse scutellae continuous all along the toes, ar.d tarsus 

 in front. 



1. Middle toe longer than bare portion of tarsus in front; scutellffl of 

 tarsus rery distinct A. C'ooperi, (Bonap.,) Gray. 



2. Middle toe shorter than bare portion of tarsus in front; in adult birds, 

 scutellse of tarsus fused into an apparently-continuous plate, but in the 

 young distinct A. fuscus, (Gmel.,) Bonap. 



| Bill stouter and less compressed than in preceding; feet robust: third to 

 fourth quill longest. 

 A. Tarsus closely feathered to the, toes. 



a. Aguil.r. Toes (except terminal joint) with only small scales. 



Genus AQUILA, Moehring. 



Feathering of tarsus not interrupted behind ; middle toe more than half as 

 long as tarsus. Upper outline of cere parallel with lower Nostrils narrow, 

 oval, obliquely vertical ; fourth quill longest; first shorter than seventh or 

 eighth ; five to seven quills sinuated on outer webs ; five or six emarginated 

 on inner. Feathers of the occiput and nape lanceolate* 



Genus ARCHIBUTEO, Brehm. 



Feathering of the tarsus interrupted behind by a narrow bare strip, expos- 

 ing the knee ; middle toe less than half as long as the tarsus. Upper outline 

 ofcere ascending basally. Nostril broadly oval, obliquely horizontal ; fourth, 

 or third and fourth quills longest ; first shorter than seventh ; second to sixth 

 (inclusive) quills sinnated on outer webs ; four or fivo emarginated on inner 

 webs. Feathers of occiput and nape normal. Chin with a slight tuft oJ 

 bristly feathers projecting forward. 



* Including all the European, as well as the American species. 



1870.] 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



1. Five primaries emarginated on inner webs. Bill small, compressed. 



A. ianctijohannis * (Penn ,) Gray. 



2. Four primaries emarginated on inner webs. Bill more robust, very 

 broad at base A. ferrugineus, (Licht.,) Gray. 



B. Tarsus naked, with an anterior and posterior series of transverse scutell* ; 

 feathered only on the upper portion in front. 



a. Buteones. (Genus Buteo, Cuvier.) Only four outer primaries emargi- 



nated on inner webs; 3d or 4th longest, 1st equal 7th to 9th. Wing 

 long, primaries pointed. Outstretched feet falling far short of end of 

 tail. 



1. Four outer quills emarginated on inner webs. 



Cuoperi, Cass., harlanirf borealis, (Gmel.) Vieill., lineatus, (Gmel.) 

 Jard., zonocercus % 



2. Three outer quills emarginated on inner webs. 



Swainsom,% fuliginosus.\\ albifrons,^ pennsylvanicut, (Wils.) Bonap.** 



b. Urubitwgx. Generally five quills emarginated on inner webs; 3d and 



4th. 4th, or 4th and 5th quills longest. Wing short, primaries obtuse. 



Outstretched feet reaching to or beyond end of tail. 

 \. Feet buteonine, but tarsus more robust compared with the toes than in 

 that group. Bill very strong, the tip well developed and rather abruptly 

 hooked; lobe on the commissure very conspicuous, cere ascending basally, 

 arched. 



Genus CRAXIREX, Gould. 



Nostril horizontal, oval, with a cartilaginous [not central) tubercle. Five outer 

 primaries, emarginated on inner webs|f C. harrisii.\\ 



Genus ASTI'RIXA, Vieillot. 



Nostril horizontal, upper outline straight, the lower semicircular ; without 

 tubercle. Four outer primaries emarginated oh inner webs. A. plagiata.%%{^) 



. Feet almost milvine, the tarsus slender, the claws very long and sharp. 

 Bill small, hardly at all cnrnpressed, the tip rather obtuse; cere ascending 

 basally, very broad and full on top. 



Genus OiNTCHOTES, Ridgway.flfl 

 Nostril nearly circular, with a conspicuous (not central) tubercle. Tarsus very 

 long and slender ; toes moderate ; claws very long, strong and sharp, but only 

 slightly curved. Tibial feathers short, clost, not reaching below the joint. Wing 

 very short, much rounded and very concave beneath ; 4th quill longest, 1st 

 shorter than 9th. Tail moderate, rounded 0. gruberi.^ 



* A. sanelijohannis, is the name for all the >.'. Am. specimens, whether light or dark; there 

 is but one American species or race ; the very blaek-hirds being merely melatiistic indi- 

 viduaU. The difference between the American and European forma is hardly enough to 

 separate them as species, but sufficient to warrant our calling the former A. layopus var. 

 ianctijohannis. 



f Falcn kurlani. Aud., B. Am. pi. 36, 1831. Buteo karlani, (Bonap.) Cassin, B. N. Am. 

 X Buteo zonocercus, Bulater, Trans. Zool. Soe. IV, ii, 263, 1858. 



\ B. swainsonn, Bonap., Leish, 3, 181):'. Cassin, B.N.Am. B. insignatus, Cassin (meta- 

 nistic), B. bairdii (Hoy), Cassin (juvenilus). 



B.fuliginosus, Sclater, Pr. Zool. Sao. 1858, p. 356. (Sab., Mexico.) 



* Astur albifront, Kaup, Isis, 1817. // Buteo brachyura, Vieill., Nouv. Diet. Hist. Nat. IV, 

 477. 1816 



** Also polyosoma, and erythronotti) of S. Am. 



f\ Crubitinga zonura, Shaw, U. anthracina, Leicht, C schistacra, Sund.; Buteogallus nigri- 

 collis, Lath, and "BiUeo" gheisbreghtii. Dub. South Am. species belonging to this section 

 of the Buteones, also have, each, five primaries sinuated on inner webs; Spizigeranus 

 meridionalii, Lath, has ix ; while LrucoptemU" semiplumbeus, Lavvr., has only four. The 

 last is, in every respect, almost a typical example of the Urubitingeie. 



XX Fulco harrisii, And., B. Am. pi. 392, 1831. Oraxirex unicinctus, var. harrisii, Ridgway. 



M A. ruficauda, Bel. and Salv. (and the allied S. Am. species), have the five outer prima- 

 ries emarginated. 



Asturina plagiata. Schlegel, Mus. Pays-Bas, Sept., 1862, p. 1. 



* Onychotes, Ridgway, Nov. (Sen. (Type O.gruberi, see page 149). 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Subfamily HA LIME TIN* E. 



No membrane between the toes, which are instead cleft to the base. 

 Genus HALLEETUS, Savigny. 



Bill very large, inflated; chord of the admen more than twice the length of the 

 cert on top: commissure only slightly sinuated. Nostril elongate-oval' ob- 

 liquely vertical. Toes and posterior face of tarsus with transverse scut, 

 posterior face of tarsus with circular plates. 1st quill shorter than 7th ; 2i\ 

 to 6th (inclusive) sinuated on outer webs; inner webs of outer six deeply 

 emarginated. 



1. 4th quill longest; tail slightly rounded. 



//. leucocephalus, (Briss.) Savig. 



2. 3d quill longest; tail very much graduated, or cuueate. 



II pelagicut* 

 II. No bare, projecting, superciliary shield. 



Middle toe longer than naked portion of tarsus in front. 



Subfamily MIL VINE. 



Closely feathered above, and generally all round, the eye. Feet very robust 

 and strong; tarsus usually short; the naked portion in front less - : 

 length of the middle toe; toes cleft to the base, or else the membrane between 

 outer and middle toe not well developed. Wing very long. Tail variable, 

 being slightly rounded, square, emarginated or excessively forked. Bill black 

 or dusky. f 



A. Tarsus without transverse scutelhc. 



a. Claws not grooved beneath, the lower surface being rounded, or just per- 

 ceptibly flattened-. 



Genus PANDION, Savigny. 



Bill inflated, the cere depressed below the arched culmen ; end of bill much 

 developed, forming a strong, pendant hook. Anterior edge of nostril touching 

 edge of the cere. Whole of tarsus and toes (except terminal joint) covered with 

 rough, somewhat imbricated, projecting scales Outer toe. versatile; all the 

 claws of equal length ;| in their shape also they are peculiar ; they contract 

 in thickness to their lower side, where they are much narrower than on top, 

 as well as perfectly smooth and rounded; the middle claw has the usual 

 sharp lateral ridge, but it is not very distinct. All the toes perfectly free. 

 Tibia not plumed, but covered compactly with short feathers, these read 

 down the front of the tarsus below the knee, and terminating in an an 

 Primary coverts hard, stiff-and acuminate, almost as much so as the quill? th< ra- 

 selves : 3d quill longest; 1st longer than 5th; 2d, 3d and 4th sinuated on 

 outer webs ; outer three deeply emarginated, the fourth sinuated, on inner 

 webs. 



P. haliaetus, (Linn.) Less., and P. Carolinentis, (Gmel ) Bonap. (= 

 liaetus var. carolinensis). 



* Aquila pelagica, Pallan, Zoog. Ross. As. I, 343. L811. Halieelus pelagicut, Zcit., : 

 Falk. Mus. Senck. 261. (Does not belong to North American fauna I 



f The light greenish or yellowish bill in all the Pnlyborinse, induces me to usi 

 parently trivial character, as a diagnostic one. The distinction between "i/i/m 

 "PolyboriniB" is by no means well marked, and there are intermediate forms 

 and 'ibycter) which almost induce me to designate them as sections oi one subfi m 

 find it difficult, if possible, to diagnose them separately by anything more than meiely 

 comparative characters. , . 



1 No other Raptorial bird that I have seen hares with Pattdion m this cnriou 

 Indeed, most of the characters of this genus are so unique, that it is almost emit.' 

 the rank of a separate subfamily. 



1870.] 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Genus ELANUS, Savigny. 



Bill rather small and narrow, the tip normal ; commissure moderately sinu- 

 ated ; upper outline of lower mandible greatly arched, the height at base less 

 than half that through middle; gonys almost straight, declining downward 

 toward tip. Nostril circular, in middle of cere. Tarsus and toes (except ter- 

 minal joint) covered with small roundish scales ; under surface of claws just 

 perceptibly flattened; sharp lateral ridge on middle claw very prominent ; a very 

 slight membrane between outer and middle toes. 2d quill longest, 3d very 

 slightly shorter ; 1st just exceeding 4th ; 2d and 3d with outer webs slightly 

 sinuated ; inner web of 1st emarginated, of 2d sinuated. Tail peculiar 

 emarginated but the lateral feather much shorter than the middle, the one 

 next to it being the longest E. leucurus, (Vieill.) Bonap. 



b. Claws flattened, or slightly grooved, beneath. 



Genus NAUCLERUS, Vigors. 

 Bill as in preceding, but less deep and less compressed ; gonys straighter. 

 Nostrils oval, obliquely vertical. Toes with transverse scutellse to their base; 

 scales of tarsus large ; lower edges of claws sharp ; middle claw bent laterally, 

 the inner side much arched, the edge sharp ; a just distinguishable membrane 

 between outer and middle toes. 3d quill longest, 2d scarcely shorter; 1st 

 slightly exceeding 4th ; 2d and 3d with outer webs just perceptibly sinuated, 

 the cuttings near the end. Tail excessively forked, the latter feather more than 

 twice as long as the middle N. forflcatus* (Linn.) Ridgw. 



B. Front of tarsus with transverse scutellte. 



Genus ICTINIA, Vieillot. 

 Bill peculiar, being very short and deep, the commissure with a heavy fes- 

 toon, behind and in front of which is a more or less perceptible indentation; 

 gonys convex, ascending toward tip. Nostril very small, circular. Membrane 

 between outer and middle toes well developed. Claws short, robust, flattened 

 beneath, the edges sharp, particularly that on the inner side of the middle 

 claw, which is somewhat bent. 3d quill longest. 



1. 2d quill much longer than 4th ; outer webs of quills not sinuated ; 

 inner web of 1st emarginated, of 2d sinuated. 



/. mississippiensis, (Wils.) Gray. 



2. 2d quill much shorter than 4th; outer web of 2d and 3d sinuated 

 (near bases) ; inner web of outer three emarginated. 



/. plumbea, (Gmel.) Vieill. 



Genus ROSTRHAMUS, Lesson. 

 Bill very narrow, upper mandible much elongated and bent, the tip pro- 

 duced downward in a strong hook ; lower mandible dropping terminally, the 

 gonys perfectly straight, the upper outline much arched, to correspond witb 

 the convavity of the commissure Nostril elongate-oval, horizontal. Mem- 

 brane between outer and middle toes easily distinguishable. Claws extremely 

 long, and very sharp, though but gently curved 3d and 4th quills equal, and 

 longest; 1st = 7th ; 2d, 3d, 4th and 5th deeply sinuated on outer webs (near 

 base) ; inner webs of outer five emarginated. Tail emarginated. 



R. sociabilis, (Vieill.) D'Orb. 



Middle toe shorter than bare portion of tarsus in front. 

 Subfamily (?) POLY BORING. 

 Nostril with a bony tubercle, but of rather various form. Bill generally 



* Falcn forficatus, Linn., Syst. Nat. I, 89, 1758. Falco furcatus, I, inn., Syst. Nat. p. 129, 

 1706. Nauclerut furcatus, Vig., Zool. Journ. II, :j87. Canain, B. N. Am. 1858, 36, et Auct. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



variable, but with the tip only slightly developed, and the commissure very 

 regular. Color of the bill greenish, or yellowish, white. 3d or 3d and 4th 

 quills longest; outer four to six sinuated on outer webs ; inner webs of outer 

 four or five sinuated. 



Genus POLYBORUS, Yieillot. 



Nostril in the upper anterior angle of the cere, very small, linear, obliquely 

 vertical, the posterior end being the upper one. Cere very narrow, its anterior 

 outline vertical and straight; commissure nearly straight; bill very high 

 and much compressed. Occipital feathers elongated. 



1. 3d quill longest ; 1st shorter than 7th ; outer webs of 2d to 5th (inclu- 

 sive) emarginated at bases; inner webs of outer four emarginated. 



P. auduboni, Cass., and P. t hunts, Mol.* 



Falco (Hypotriorchis) uichardso.nii. 



Falco [Hypotriorchis) richardsonii, Ridgway. 



Falco msalon. Rich, and Swains., Faun. Bor. Am. ii, pi. 25, 1831. Coues, Prod. 

 Orn. Ariz. Ter. (Pr. A. N. S. Phil.) 1866, p. 6 (in text). 



Hah. Interior region of N. Am., from Arctic America southward, between 

 Rocky Mts. and Mississippi valley, to Texas. 



Adult Male. (Smithsonian No. 5171, Mouth of the Vermilion River, near 

 the Missouri, Oct. 25th, 1856, Lt. G. K. Warren Dr. F. V. Hayden). Upper 

 plumage dull earth brown, each feather grayish umber centrally, and with a 

 conspicuous black shaft line. Head above approaching ashy white anteriorly, 

 the black shaft-streaks being very conspicuous. Secondaries, primary-coverts 

 and primaries margined terminally with dull white ; the primary-coverts with 

 two transverse series of pale ochraceous spots ; primaries with spots of the 

 same, corresponding with those on the inner webs. Upper tail-coverts tipped, 

 and spotted beneath the surface, with white. Tail clear drab, much lighter 

 than the primaries, but growing darker terminally, having basally a slightly 

 ashy cast; crossed with six sharply defined, perfectly continuous bands (the 

 last terminal) of ashy white. Head, frontally, laterally and beneath a col- 

 lar around the nape (interrupting the brown above) and the entire lower 

 parts, white, somewhat ochraceous, this most perceptible on the tibia; cheeks 

 and ear-coverts with sparse, fine hair-like streaks of black ; nuchal collar, 

 jugulum, breast, abdomen, sides and flanks with a medial linear stripe of 

 clear ochre brown on each feather; these stripes broadest on the flanks ; each 

 stripe with a conspicuously black shaft-streak; tibia and lower tail-coverts 

 with fine shaft-streaks of brown, like the broader stripes of the other por- 

 tions. Chin and throat, only, immaculate. Lining of the wing spotted with 

 ochraceous-white and brown, in about equal amount, the former in spots ap- 

 proaching the shaft. Inner webs of primaries with transverse broad bars of 

 pale ochraceous eight on the longest. Wing-formula, 2, 34, 1. Wing, 

 7-70; tail, 5-09; culmen, -50; tarsus, 1-30; middle toe, 1-25; outer, -85; in- 

 ner, -7U ; posterior, -50. 



Adult Female. (58983, Berth oud's Pass, Rocky Mts., Colorado Ter., Dr. F. V. 

 Hayden Jas. Stevenson.) Differing in coloration from the male only m the 

 points of detail. Ground color of the upper parts clear grayish drab, the fea- 

 thers with conspicuously black shafts; all the feathers with pairs of rather 

 indistinct roundel ochraceous spots, these most conspicuous on the wings 

 and scapulars. Secondaries crossed with three bands of deeper, more red- 

 dish ochraceous. Bands of the tail pure white. In other respects exactly 



as in the male. 



Wing formula, 3, 2-4-1. Wing, 9-00; tail, 6-10 ; culmen, -55 j tarsus, 



1-40; middle toe, 1-51. _ . ., ., c , 



' Young Male. (40516, Fort Rice, Dacota, July 20, 1865, Bng.-Gen. Alfred 



* South Am. Analogue of P. auduboni. 



1870.] 




146 PKOCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Sully, U. S. A., S. M. Rothammer.) Differing from the adult only in degree,. 

 Upper surface with the rusty borders of the feathers more washed over the 

 general surface ; the rusty ochraceous forms the ground color of the head - 

 paler anteriorly, where the black shaft-streaks are very conspicuous; spots on 

 the primary coverts and primaries deep reddish ochraceous ; tail bands 

 broader than iu the adult, and more reddish ; the terminal one twice as broad 

 as the rest (-40 of an inch) and almost cream color in tint 



Beneath, pale ochraceous, this deepest on the breast and sides ; markings 

 as in the adult, but anal region and lower tail-coverts immaculate; the shaft- 

 streaks on the tibia, also, scarcely discernible. Wing, 7-00; tail, 4-60. 



It is to this perfectly distinct species, that the various citations of "cesalori' 

 from North America are to be referred. It is the. bird noticed under that 

 name in the "Fauna Boreali Americana," to the author of which (by whom 

 it r distinctness from columbarius was first recognized) we take pleasure in 

 dedicating the species. This bird appears to inhabit exclusively the interior 

 regions of North America, especially that portion between the Mississippi 

 Valley and the Rocky Mountains ; whether it extends into the Middle Province 

 we cannot at present tell. Numerous specimens are in the collection from 

 various points between Texas and the northern boundary of the U. S. its 

 habitat extending into the interior of British America, as we know from 

 Richardson's aecount. The very numerous specimens of the H. columbarius 

 from the same region as that inhabited by the present species, are of the 

 usual style of that bird, and the slight degree of variation manifested in an 

 exceedingly large series of the common species, as noted in its account,* 

 will, we trust, illustrate the wide separation of the two species, even in the 

 most similar stages of plumage. 



Comparative Characters of Hypotriorchis columbarius, (Linn.) Gray, 

 .fiSALOX, (Gmel.) Gray, and richardsoxii, Ridgway. 

 A. Adult males ashy blue above. 



1. columbarius. (Ilab. Whole of N. Am.; West Indies.) 



Male. Inner webs of primaries with eight transverse spots of white. Tail 

 tipped with white, and with three, more or less continuous, black bands, ante- 

 rior to the subterminal zone; lateral feather approaching to white on inner 

 webs, on which there are altogether five sharply defined transverse spots of 

 black, these crossing the shaft nearly to edge of outer web. Streaks on 

 cheeks fine and sparse; pectoral markings broad, clear brown, with black shaft- 

 lines. Beneath, only slightly tinged with ochraceous, except ou the tibia, 

 winch are deeply of this color, and streaked with dusky. 



Female. Above plumbeous-umber, all the feathers with darker shaft-lines. 

 Tail with jive (one concealed), more or less continuous, narrow bands of whit- 

 ish. Outer webs of primaries plain ; inner web of longest with eight trans- 

 verse spots of pale ochraceous. Streaks of cheeks uniformly distributed. 



Measurements of Q. Wing, 8-25; tail, 5-25; tarsus, 100; middle toe r 

 1-25. (1716, Carlisle, Penn.) 



2. jesalon. (Hub. Europe.) 



Male. Inner webs of primaries with ten spots. Tail tipped with ash, and 

 with six transverse series (anterior to the subterainal zone) of concealed 

 black spots, these only on inner webs, and not touching the shaft; lateral 

 feather uniformly ash with only small transversely oval black spots on inner 

 webs, these not touchiug either the edge or shaft. Streaks on cheeks enlarged 

 and blended, forming a conspicuous " moustache ;" pectoral markings linear, pure 

 black; those of sides and flanks broader and more brownish, but not con- 

 nected in chain-like series as in columbarius. An ochraceous tinge prevalent 

 across the nape, and all lower parts except the throat of this color, deepest on 

 breast and sides ; tibia paler and scarcely streaked. 



* See forthcoming Monograph. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Female. Above, brownish plumbeous, lighter and more bluish than in eolum- 

 ^r/tw, feathers becoming rusty toward margins, ami with more Conspicuous 

 black shait-lmes. Tail with tight narrow bands of fulvous-ashy, the nrsl 

 three concealed. Primaries with ten transverse oval spots of pinkish-ochre 



on inner webs, and indications of corresponding light spots on outer webs of 

 inner quills. Conspicuous " moustache,'' as in the male. 



Measurements of 9. (Germany.) Wing, 9-00; tail, 5-70; tarsus, -95 ; middle 

 toe, L16. 



B. Adult male brown like the female. 



3. riciiardsoxii. (Hab. Interior of N. Am. 



Male. Much lighter, more earth;/ brown than females of two preceding. 

 Head very light colored, above, approaching white anteriorly; cheeks with the 

 streaks exceedingly fine and scattered. Tail crossed with six sharply defined, 

 perfectly continuous bands of ashy white. Inner webs of primaries with 

 eight whitish spots. Pectoral markings broad, sharply defined, clear light 

 ochraceous-brown, with black shaft-lines, stripes broadest on the Hanks. 



Female. Generally similar to the male. All the feathers above with pairs 

 of rounded ochraceous spots on opposite webs ; secondaries crossed with three 

 bands of ochraceous; bands of the tail pure white, six in number. 



Measurements of 9. (58983, Colorado Ter.) Wing, 9-00; tail. 6-10; tarsus, 

 1-40; middle toe, 1-51. 



Falco (Tixnuxculus) lkucophrys. 



Tinnunculus leucophrys, Ridgway. 



Tinnunculus sparveroides (not of Vigors!), Lawrence, Ann. Lye. N. Y. I860, p. 



1. (In part; light individuals ) 

 Falco sparvcrius (not of Linn. !), D'Orb., R. Sagra, Hist. Nat. Cuba, p. 25 (pro- 

 bably). Vig., Zool. Journ. I, 339 ; III, 435. 

 Hab. Cuba and Santo Domingo. 



Adult Male. (34244, Remedios Cuba, Dec. 14, 1863, N. H. Bishop.) Head 

 above pure, fine bluish ash, becoming (broadly) white on forehead; the 

 leathers with delicate shaft-lines of black. Nape, back, scapulars, rump, up- 

 per tail-coverts and tail rich purplish rufous (almost exactly as in sparverius); 

 no bars on dorsal region, except a very few across ends of larger posterior 

 scapulars. Terminal band of tail light rufous, -30 in width : Bubterminal zone 

 of black, very regular, -55 in widtli ; lateral feather, with outer web and end 

 of inner, reddish white, the black subterminal band crossing the inner web 

 only; inner web anterior to this, continuous rufous; shafts of tail feathers 

 rufous. 



Wings fine bluish ash, like the crown ; middle and lower coverts with a very 

 few elliptical, longitudinal specks or touches of black on the shafts; seconda- 

 ries passing terminally into white, their exposed basal half pure black; pri- 

 maries pure black, exposed edges of inner webs paler. 



Whole under surface of wings immaculate pure white, with a faint delicate 

 reddish tinge ; iuuer webs of primaries serrated along the shaft with dusky. 



Forehead and superciliary stripe (broadly and sharply defined against the 

 bluish of the crown,) whole side of the head (including lores and ear-coverts) 

 and entire lower parts, continuous, immaculate, pure white, with a delicate 

 orange tinge, except anteriorly. 



The " moustache " is but just indicated by some blackish touches, and in 

 some individuals it is wanting entirely, while in all it is very restricted in 

 width ; the other black pictures of the head are, however, as in sparverius. 



Wing formula 2, 34, 1. Wing, 7-00; tail, 5-00; tarsus, 1-30; middle toe, 

 90 ; culmen, -46. 



A specimen in Mr. Lawrence's collection, which with others he has kindly 

 lent me for examination, is in beautifully high plumage. It difl'ers from the 



1870.] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



type in having the -white of the lower parts tinged, or rather stained, with a 

 beautiful, delicate rufous or almost a salmon-orange. The terminal band of 

 the tail also inclines decidedly to this color, while the white of the under 

 surface of the wing (particularly towards ends of secondaries and primaries) 

 is tinged with a more pinkish shade of the same. 



Another of Mr. Lawrence's specimens differs in the clearer white beneath 

 (that is, with less reddish tinge the pureness and continuity does not vary) 

 which extends entirely around the neck, giving a sharper definition to the 

 black pictures. The " moustache," however, is almost entirely absent ; the 

 black transverse spots on larger posterior scapulars are rather more conspic- 

 uous, and the terminal band of the tail is more purely white. 



Adult Female. (31984, Cuba, J. Ackhurst.) Generally similar to sparve- 

 rius, but rufous brighter, the bars narrower and less numerous, the nape or 

 upper part of back, and rump being almost immaculate. Tail with ten black 

 bars, these scarcely touching the shaft ; the last is about -36 wide, the others 

 about -16 ; tip of tail scarcely paler than base ; lateral feather with outer web 

 edged broadly with paler or ochraceous white, rufous next the shaft; immacu- 

 late ; inner web with only 3 or 4 very narrow bars on terminal half. Head as 

 in the male, but vertex considerably tinged with rufous. 



Whole lower parts, including frontal and lateral regions of the head, contin- 

 uous, pure white ; breast with a very faint yellowish tinge; side of the breast 

 and sides with a few scattered minute elliptical, longitudinal flakes of rusty 

 more black on the shaft. Whole under surface of the wing white, as in the 

 male. 



Wing formula, 2, 34, 1. Wing, 7-00 ; tail, 4-70; tarsus, 1-40; middle toe, 

 90 ; culmen, 51. 



A Cuban female belonging to Mr. Lawrence is exactly similar. One in the 

 S. I. Collection, from Hayti (42420, Port an Prince, Jue 5th, 1860, A. C. 

 Younglove), differs only in less purely black bars, and in utter absence of the 

 moustache. A male from the same locality (43418) is like it in the last 

 respect. 



After having carefully examined quite a large series of Tinnuncules from 

 Cuba and San Domingo, I feel compelled to recognize two distinct species, 

 of which the present is presented as new although it has frequently been no- 

 ticed ; but only, however, in connection with the sparveroides, with which it has 

 been confounded. The diagnosis will I hope sufficiently explain my reasons 

 for separating these two birds. 



Differential Characters of American Species o/Tixnunculus. 



A. Breast, sides and lining of the wing spotted with black ; under surface of 

 primaries transversely barred with white and dusky. No conspicuous 

 white superciliary stripe. (1. Sparvcrms.) 



a. Head above and wings fine bluish ash ; one (outer) tail-feather only va- 

 riegated. 



1. Vertex with a conspicuous patch of rufous. Male. Black zone of tail 

 one inch in width ; breast strongly tinged with reddish ochraceous; 

 spots of black on breast circular. Female. Above, ful vous-mf ous ; 

 whole breast and sides with longitudinal dashes of a lighter tint of the 

 same. var. sparverius.* 



H. Vertex without more than a trace of rufous. Male. Black zone of tail 

 60 of an inch in width ; beneath, continuous dull white, with elliptical 



* Fatco sparverius, Linn. Syst. Nat. 176(3, 128. Tinn. sparverius, Vieill. Tinnunculus pha- 

 Isena, Loss., Mam. et d'Ois. 1847, 17S. (Hab. Whole of N. America from Isthmus of Pan- 

 ama northward ; not in W. Ind. nor S. Am.) 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



pure black spots on side. Female. Rufous more vinaceous than in pre- 

 ceding; markings beneath deeper brown Tar. australit.* 



b. Head above, and wings, dark bluish plumbeous ; several outer tail-feathers 



variegated. 



lc. Vertex without rufous. Male. Anterior portions beneath, deep, soft 

 ochraceous ; black spots very sparse ; v black zone of tail one inch wide; 

 black bars above confined to larger scapulars. Female. Black bars 

 above broader, and purer black, than in either of preceding, upon a 

 more ferruginous ground var. isabellinutA 



l<i. Vertex with, a rufous patch. Male. Black spots beneath numerous, 

 large, circular ; black bars above covering whole rufous surface. Tail 

 with indications or more or less complete narrow black bands nearly 

 to the base. Female. Similar to that of preceding, but markings be- 

 neath more numerous, and pure black instead of brownish. 



var. dominicensis.'l 



c. Head above dark slaty plumbeous ; outer tail-feather unvariegated. 



l e ? (possibly 2). No rufous on vertex. Male. Tail continuous rufous to its 

 extreme tip ; crossed with a broken black zone narrower than the terminal 

 rufous; outer feathers without black var. ? cinnamominus.% 



B. Whole lower parts and under surface of icings continuous immaculate, white; in- 



ner webs of primaries with merely serrations of dusky along the shaft. 

 A very sharply defined, broad, superciliary stripe of white. 

 2. Male resembling sparverius, except as above mentioned ; " moustache" 

 obsolete. Female differing from that of sparverius as does the male. 



leucophrys.\\ 



C. Whole lower parts deep dark rufous; inner webs of primaries slaty, with 



transverse dusky cloudings. 

 3 Male. Whole upper surface plumbeous ; tail deep chestnut, with a 

 broad black subterminal, and narrower slate-colored terminal bar. 

 Female. The upper plumage considerably resembling that of the fore- 

 going species, the lower parts, however, deep rusty rufous. 



sparveroides.^ 



Onychotes gruberi, Ridgway. 

 Hab. California ? 

 Sp. Ch. Immature? (41,703 "California," F. Gruber.) ** Outstretched feet 



* Falco gracilis (not of Lesson !), Swains., An. Menag. p. 281 1838. JFbfco sparverius (not 

 of Linn ) Tsehudi, Faun. Per. An. p. 110. Tinn. sparv. (not of Vieill.l), Darw., Zool. Beag. 

 Pt ^ B^enTLninicensU (not F. darn, of Gmel. !), Spix, Av Bras. I 16. Tinn. d ; ,,n 

 Strickl Orn. Syn. 1, 100 (in part). Tinnunculus sparverius var. Austrahs, Ridgway. (* 

 Whole of Continental South Am. except the north Atlantic coast, where replaced by the 

 var isabellinus ; in Chili and western Brazil mixed with var. (?) cinnamominus.) 



+ Falco isabellinus, Swains. An. Menag. p. 281, 1853. Tinmmeulus dominicenHl (not of 

 nJ.fi i\ a*Jiri Orn Svn 1 100 ( in nart only). Tinnunculus sparverius var. isabellinus, Ridg- 

 ^ l S k lionl"St!cSSn o'f S. Am, Caribbean and Gulf coasts of Middle 

 Am and Gulf coast of U. S. through Texas and Louisiana to Florida.) 



^sranz rajs* %aw^&wiw(fts 



^n^AaTrtiZs var! aZinieensis, Ridgway. (Hab. Lesser Antilles, north to Porto 



*?^\iLZSZA Swains., An. Menag. p. 281, 1838 P-fornis cinnan Kaup Mo- 



J; , Y>~+ n,-v, iir,ii n /;} Tinnunculus cmnamnmeus. Gray, lien. B. tol. sp. u, 184-t. 

 L?st'rB C riSs p U 62^o P nat,C r onsp. Av. p. 27. Strickl., Orn. Syn. I, 100,1855. (Hal, 

 Chile at)d (western?) Brazil.) Puha and Havti ) 



|| Tinnunculus h^^f^^fjJSn ( gf 436, 18*7 .%, Lawrence, Ann. 



f F<dco sparva-onles V^gois Zool g^^ Tinnunculus dominical (not of 

 & 1 ?) ^ndtach P ;Rep l t n C P uba, L 2^5, 1865. hypotriorckis ferrugineus, Sauss., Rev. .t Mag. 

 Zool. 1859, p. 117, pi. 3. (Sab. Cuba-only?) 



** For generic characters, see page i4iJ. 



1870.] 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



reaching beyond tail. General plumage, dull dark bistre, darkest on the head 

 above and back; the posterior lower parts paler and more reddish; throat 

 and neck much tinged with pale rusty; this obsoletely bordering the feathers, 

 which here have fine whitish filaments attached to the shafts ; primaries uni- 

 form black. Tail like the rump, but with a more hoary tinge, (not paler at the 

 tip,) and crossed with seven or eight very narrow obscure bars of darker, the 

 last of which is distant an inch or more from the end. Lining of wing dark 

 bistre, much tinged with rusty, this prevalent toward the edge ; under sur- 

 face of primaries white anterior to their emargination, beyond which they are 

 ashy, approaching black at ends ; ashy portion with distant, very obsolete 

 dusky bars. No white anywhere about the head or neck. 



Wing, 10.00; tail, 5.80; tarsus, 2.70; middle toe, 1.40; inner, 90; outer, 

 1.10; posterior, -80; hind claw, 1-00 (chord); inner claw, -91; on front of 

 tarsus, 12 exposed, large transverse scutellae ; only 1-70 of the tarsus exposed. 



This very peculiar hawk- is, in all respects, utterly uulike any other Ameri- 

 can species. So much does it differ in structure, that we do not feel sure that 

 it is not from some portion of the Old World, instead of from California. 



However, we have searched in vain for descriptions which might apply to 

 it, and have also examined, but without success, the large collection of exotic, 

 as well as American, species in the museum of the Philadelphia Academy. 



We take pleasure in dedicating this apparently-new species to Mr. Gruber, 

 the collector and donor of the specimen, this gentleman, who is a zealous 

 naturalist and accomplished taxidermist of San Francisco, having added much 

 to our knowledge of the birds of California, through the frequent contribu- 

 tion of valuable specimens. 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : 



LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that the number of additions to the 

 Library from Jan. to Dec. 1870, inclusive, amounts to 1225. 



Of these 128 were volumes, 970 pamphlets and 127 newspapers, maps and 

 photographs. They were derived from the following sources : 



Societies, 497 ; Editors, 319 ; Wilson Fund, 122 ; Authors, 101 ; Norwegian 

 Government, 19; Geological Survey of Swtden, 11 ; Chilian Government, 11 ; 

 Publishers, 8 ; Elias Durand, 7 ; Geological Survey of India, 6 ; Thos. 

 Meehan, 5; Minister of Public Works in France, 5; Geological Survey of 

 Italy, 5; Publication Committee, 4 ; Messrs. Towusend & Adams, 4; Smith- 

 sonian Inst., 3 ; Wm. S. Vaux, 2 ; Col. Jas. Greer, 2 ; IT. S. Coast Survey, 2 ; 

 Treasury Department, 3 ; O. C. .Marsh, 1; Jos. Leidy, 1; Chas. G. Atkins, 1; 

 Jos. Jeanes, 1 ; D. F. Boyd, 1 ; Secretary of State for India, 1 ; 69 books and 

 continuations were purchased, and a valuable suite of Blume's Botanical 

 Works, comprising 14 volumes, was presented by the following gentlemen : 

 Jos. Jeanes, A. J. Brasier, G. W. Tryon, Jr., J. H. Redfield, Isaac Lea, Wm. S. 

 Vaux, Thos. Meehan, E. Durand and Chas. Schaffer, M. D. 



These additions were distributed to the different departments of the Library 

 as follows : 



Journals, 948 ; Geology, 65 ; General Natural History, 48 ; History, 36 ; 

 Conchology, 26 ; Botany, 24 ; Physical Science, 22 ; Ornithology, 18 ; Anatomy, 

 14 ; Entomology, 7 ; Bibliography, 4 ; Helrninthology, 3 ; Herpetology, 3 ; Ich- 

 thyology, 2 ; Voyages and Travels, 2 ; Mineralogy, 2 ; Chemistry, 1. 



In addition 3 volumes and 104 pamphlets were received through the Con- 

 chological Section. 



During the year some of the duplicate books and pamphlets which had from 

 time to time accumulated on our shelves were exchanged for a copy of 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCILNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 1")1 



Elliott's Birds of North America, and the remainder were disposed of at auc- 

 tion in New York for $100.00. 



I take this opportunity of again calling your attention to the expediency of 

 selling the valuable Fine Art aud literary works now iu the Library. If thia 

 plan be adopted the means at the disposal of the Library Committee for pro- 

 curing books absolutely nesessary to the working members of the Academy 

 will be greatly increased. 



Blank forms, for the use of those wishing to apply for new hooks, have 

 been prepared by order of the Council, and will be ready for use by the 

 beginning of the year. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Museum of the Academy, in charge of the Curators, is in about the 

 same condition that was indicated in the last annual report. The Concho- 

 logical Section continues actively to arrange in order the large cabinet in its 

 care. Other department remain with but little progress towards arrangement. 



The Cura-ors regret to add that nothing further has been done, during the 

 last year, towards completing the suggested plan of providing a new building 

 for the accommodation of the Academy. 



The Curators take pleasure in stating that the proposition, in their last 

 annual report, to make a small charge of admission to the Museum, with the 

 special view of moderating excessive crowds, having, with the authority of 

 the Academy, been put into effect, has been found to meet all requirements. 

 The charge of ten cents for each person, which was commenced the first of 

 May, is so small as to be an inconvenience to no one really desirous of ex- 

 amining the Museum, while it is sufficient to prevent the crowds, which for- 

 merly were so great an annoyance. At the same time, the income derived 

 from the fees is found to be sufficient to keep the Museum in a proper condi- 

 tion of cleanliness and repair. 



The donations during the year to the different departments of the Museum 

 are as follows : 



Mammals. A mounted specimen of the Grizzly Bear, one of the Fisher, of 

 California, and one of the Howling Monkey, from Honduras, presented by Dr. 

 George Hewston, of San Francisco, Cal. Skin and skeleton of the Sea Lion, 

 (Eumetopias Stelleri) from Cape Arenas, Cal., and several skins of smaller 

 mammals from Alaska, presented by Dr. Geo. Davidson, U. S. Coast Survey. 



Birds. One hundred and fifty bird-skins from the West Indies, b,eii g types 

 of the principal birds of the Antilles ; and nineteen other skins, presented by 

 the Smithsonian Institution. A collection of bird skins from California and 

 Alaska, presented by Dr. Ceorge Davidson. 



Reptiles and Fishes. A small collection of lizards and serpents from near 

 Pensacola and Perdido R., presented by Dr. John M. Kollock. A collection 

 of reptiles and fishes from California and Alaska, presented by Dr. George 

 Davidson. A serpent from Kansas, presented by S. R. Roberts. A Tngono- 

 cephalus half swallowed by Oxyrrhopus plutnbeus, from St. Lucia, W. I., 

 presented by Mrs. Capt. James S. Endicott, of Somer's Point, N. J. A small 

 collection of reptiles, presented by A. C. Craig. 



Mollusks. For donations see Conservator's Report of the Conchological 

 Section. 



Articulates. A. collection of Myriapods from Missouri, presented by Charles 

 Veatch ; of Spiders in alcohol, by A. C. Craig; a Ceutiped, from the Apure 



1870.] 




r 



152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



R., S. A., by Crawford Coates ; and nestB of the Trap-Door Spider, by Dr_ 

 George Davidson. 



Fossils. A choice collection of fossils, consisting of cetacean vertebra?-,, 

 shark teeth, &c, from the Ashley River deposit, S. C, presented by Philip 

 Wineman, through Messrs. Powers & AVeightman. Two cetacean vertebras 

 and several shark teeth and a vertebra, from the same locality, presented by 

 Col. D. W. Hagler, U. S. Arsenal, Georgia. A metacarpal of Megalonyx and 

 a tooth of an extinct Ox, from Illinois, presented by Henry Greene and Dr. 

 E. D. Kittoe. Two fossil bones from Kansas, presented by Dr. W.F. McAl- 

 lister ; fragments of a fossil reptile bone, from Clarksville, N. J., by S. .R. 

 Roberts ; and a large log of silicified wood, from Greenwich, N. J., presented 

 by Dr. Geoge B. Wood. A collection of fossil plants was also received from 

 France, in exchange. 



Comparative Anatomy. Cranium of an Indian, from Greenwich, N. J., pre- 

 sented by Dr. George B. Wood ; another specimen from near Woodbury, N. J., 

 presented by George M. Tatum. Skull of a rat with distorted growth of an 

 incisor tooth, presented by Richard L. Nicholson. Tusk of a Walrus, from 

 Sitka, presented by Capt. George Wright, U. S. A. 



Botany. The herbarium of the late Thomas G. Lea, of Cincinnati, Ohio 

 presented by James M. Lea, with the condition that it shall be preserved 

 separately as the " Lea Herbarium" A collection of upwards of one hundred 

 species of plants from Alameda, Cal., presented by Dr. W. P. Gibbons. A 

 collection of cones of forty-four species of couif'era?, presented by Josiah 

 Hoopes, Thomas Meehan and I. M. Thorbum. Six species of ferns, from 

 Venezuela, presented by Thomas Guckert. A small collection of marine alga;, 

 from Washington Ter., presented by Mrs. Samuel Stork, and another, from 

 Ceylon, presented by Dr. A. C. Hamlin. 



Minerals. Two remarkably fine crystallized specimens of Epidote, from 

 Untersulzbach, Tyrol, presented by Wm. P. Wilstach ; a large crystal of 

 Beryl, from Chester Co., Pa., presented by W. S. Vaux ; and a fine mass of 

 Graphite, from Ceylon, presented by T. Guilford Smith. The following 

 specimens were also presented: Calamine, Sussex Co., N. J., by Thomas S. 

 Wiegand ; Magnetic Iron, Essex Co., N. Y., by J. Blodget Britton ; Margarite, 

 Emery and Diaspore, Chester, Mass., by J. B. Taft; Zincite and Jeffersonite, 

 Sussex Co., N. J., by Garret Kemble ; Corundum in Lesleyite, Tourmaline, 

 Muscovite and Oligocluse, Chester Co., and Phlogopite, Burgess, Canada, by 

 Dr. Isaac Lea ; Gold in slate, Montgomery, N. C, by Dr. F. A. Genth ; Graphic 

 Granite, Del. Co., Pa., by Joseph Wilcox and Dr. S. B. Howell ; Kieserite, 

 Stassfurth, Magdeburg, by E. Goldsmith ; Galena, Crawford Co., 111., by John 

 Levering; Apatite, Burgess, Canada, by Clarence L Bement. A number of 

 minerals were also received in exchange. 



Miscellaneous. A collection of Indian stone relics, from Catawba R., N. C, 

 presented by Aden. Charles Wilkes, U. S. N. ; and another small collection of 

 Indian relics from Manatee R., Florida, presented by Dr. C. J. Clebourne, 

 U. S. N. 



Respectfully submitted by Joseph Leidy, 



Chairman of the Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL COMMITTEE. 



To the President and Members of the Academy : 



The Botanical Committee of the Academy respectfully reports that during 

 the past year the collections made during the war by Dr. Hayden in South 

 Carolina, and in 1&G9 in Western Nebraska by the same gentleman, have been 

 named. Almost all of the species were already in the Academy, but many of 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



them were in other conditions than those which we already have, and havo 

 been added to the collection. 



A collection from California, presented by Dr. Gibbons, has also been 

 named, and added to the collection. Many of these we did not possess before. 



The collection of Australian plants presented by Dr. Mueller a few yearn 

 ago, besides scattering collections from Alaska and other parts, have 1 

 all gathered together in their respective natural orders. The case3 containing 

 the general Herbarium of the Academy are full, and numbered consecutively. 

 No additions can be made until the whole is re-arranged. The collections 

 above referred to are, therefore, for the present preserved separate, as a sup- 

 plemental herbarium 



^ In the beginning of the year it was found that the plants in the magnificent 

 Shortian Herbarium were being badly injured by insects. By authority of 

 the Curators, Mr. Burk was engaged to poison them. He has since been 

 steadily engaged on the work, which is about two-thirds completed. 



All the plants in the collections before alluded to were poisoned before 

 putting away by the labors of Mr. Burk. Thomas Meehan, 



For Committee. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary wouid*;respectfully report that, during the year 

 ending November 30th, 1870, there have been elected thirty-seven members 

 and five correspondents. 



The death of the following members has been announced, namely: 



Benj. D. Walsh, Mrs. E. H. Vaux, Caleb S. Hallowell, Wm. P. Wilstacfr, 

 Richard Wood. 



Four members have resigned. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy and Medical Journals during the year has been nineteen, 

 as follows : 



Elliott Cones, M. D 1 



C. F.Austin 1 



F. B. Meek & A. H. Worthen 2 



Prof. Cyrus Thomas I 



T.Hale Streets 2 



Theodore Gill I 



E. D.Cope 1 



H M. Bannister 1 



Prof. C. Johnson 1 



Thomas Meehan 5 



F. B. Meek 1 



In the Medical Journals two, namely: 



S. W. Mitchell, M. D 1 | James Tyson , I 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



S. B. Howell, Recording Secretary. 



The Treasurer's report was read and referred to the Committee on 

 Finance. 



The Report of the Recorder of the Microscopical and Biological 

 Section was received and referred to the Publication Committee. 



The following is an extract from the same : 



The great event in our history as an association, during the year which has 

 just elapsed, was unquestionably the first Annual Conversazione held in the 

 Hall of the College of Physicians, on the 12th of May, with a degree of suc- 

 cess and satisfaction, not only to ourselves, as hosts, but also to our invited 



1870.] 11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



guests, that has rarely, if ever, been equaled by any similar scientific reunion 

 before held in this city. 



It "was followed early in June by an exhibition of microscopes and micro- 

 scopical apparatus, given to the members of the State Medical Society, with 

 almost equal eclat, and which probably aided largely to diffuse among the 

 rural practitioners of our State an accurate knowledge of the immense strides 

 made during the past few years in the various departments of Microscopical 

 Science. 



The new plan of constituting every alternate meeting a conversational one, 

 determined upon in accordance with suggestions contained in the resolutions 

 brought forward by Dr. R. S. Kenderdine, in June last, has now been on trial 

 for about three months, and, although its practical operation does not yet 

 prove entirely without difficulties, it is to be hoped that greater care and fur- 

 ther experience will enable us to derive from this novel feature the marked 

 advantages which it seems capable of affording us. 



Before concluding my report I may advert to the new and agreeable field of 

 usefulness, which has been opened to us through the relations of our parent 

 Academy, with the Smithsonian Institution, at Washington, to wit : the refer- 

 ence of subjects requiring microscopical investigation to our department for 

 examination and report ; indeed it appears to me that few opportunities of con- 

 ducing towards a wide spread, enduring reputation, usefulness and influence 

 for the Biological and Microscopical Section of the Academy, are more promis- 

 ing than those which invite our researches to matters of national interest and 

 importance, such, for example, as the dust showers which occasionally visit 

 our country. In fact, although in one respect, that of electing honorary and 

 corresponding members, we may labor under certain restrictions on account 

 of our connection with the Academy, so great and counterbalancing advan- 

 tages are derived from this association that, to quote the words of our late 

 Recorder, Dr. Tyson, in his last annual report, " We believe that any attempt 

 to weigh them would result decidedly in favor of such union." 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Jos. G. Richardson, Recorder. 



REPORTS OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



RECORDER'S REPORT. 



Hall of the Academy, December 1st, 1870. 



The Recorder would report that, during the year ending this date, there 

 have been accepted, for publication in the Journal, thirty-three papers by the 

 following authors : 



Wm. H. Dall, 5 T.A.Conrad, 4 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 7 Jno. H. Redfield, 2 



Prof. A. Brot, 1 Theo. Gill, M. D.. 1 



James Lewis, M. D., 2 W. H. Pease,.... 2 



Binney and Bland, 1 J. G. Cooper, M. D., 4 



John Wolf, 1 Wm. G. Binney 1 



R. J. L. Guppy, 1 W. D. Hartman, 1 



One member has resigned, and one has died. 



He regrets to report that no members or correspondents have been elected 

 during the year. 



Respectfully submitted, 



S. R. Roberts, Recorder. 



[Dec. 




NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L56 



CORRESPONDING SECRETARY'S REPORT 



To the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia : 



The Corresponding Secretary would respectfully report that letters hare 

 been written as follows, viz. : 



Jan. 10. To Prof. A. E. Verrill, Yale College, New Haven. 

 Feb. 4. To Dr. P. P. Carpenter, Montreal, C. W. 

 Dec 1. To Dr. Frederick Stoliczka, Calcutta. 

 Ralph Tate, London. 

 Albany Hancock, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 

 Dr. Jno. Romer, Marbonrg, Hesse. 

 Prof. Wm. H. Dall, Smithsonian. 

 The following letters have been received : 

 Feb. 3. From Prof H. Cross, Paris. 



Dr. P. P. Carpenter, Montreal, C. W. 

 Dec. 1. Jules Collieau, Brussels. 



Respectfully submitted, 



E. R. Beadle, Corren. Sec't/. 



LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that there have been presented, during 

 the past year, to the library of the Conchological Sectian, 104 pamphlets, 3 

 volumes and an almost complete suite of the publications of the Academy. 

 Of these, 27 were received from Societies, 32 from Editors, 32 from Authors," 6 

 from Publication Committee, G from Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 2 from Isaac Lea,' 1 

 from Prof. Marsh, and 1 Ironi P. P. Carpenter. 



The Proceedings and Journal of the Academy were received from J S 

 Phillips. 



In addition, 26 pamphlets and continuations of Conchological works have 

 been received through the Academy. 



The work of transcribing the revised Catalogue of the Library has been 

 carried on during the year as rapidly as circumstances would permit. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



CONSERVATOR'S REPORT. 



The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully reports that the 

 donations to the Cabinet, during the year, have been as follows : 



From Rev. E. R. Beadle. Ten species of Mollusca, principally from St. 

 Martin's, W. I. 



H. F. Carpenter. Limnea columella, Say, from Providence, R. I. 



J. C. Cox. One hundred and thirty-four species of Australian and Polynesian 

 land, fresh-water and marine shells. 



A. 0. Currier. A collection of land and fresh-water shells from Nicaragua, 

 including types of several new species forming part of the collections of 

 the MacNiel Expedition to Central America. A collection of Limnmidee and 

 Viviparidx from Kent County, Mich. 



W. H. Dall. Two species of Physa from Arizona and Nicaragua. Qadinia 

 reticulata, Say, from Monterey, Cal., and one unknown species of Qadinia. 



H. A. Gilliat. Fifty-seven species of Australian marine shells. 



F. A. Hassler, M. D. ModeJ of animal of Strombus giyus, Linn. Suite of spe- 

 cimens of Helix spliracita, Hartm., from Syria. 



1870.] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



F. V. Haydex, M. D. Six species of fresh-water shells, from Ancient Lake 

 margins, Salt Lake, Utah. 



G. A. Lathrop. Five species of Helices from Tennessee. 



Isaac Lea. Types of Physa Carltoni and eight species of TJnio from Big Black 



River, Mis. 

 M. L. I, each. Pomaliopsis lapidaria, Say, from St. Louis, Mich. 



J. A. McNeil. Unio Macneilii and a species of Melarria. 



M. McDonald. Leucocheila fa/lax, Say, and Triodopsis introferens, Bland, from 



Lexington. 

 F B. Meek. Tiara humerosa, Meek, from Utah fossil. 



C. W. Peale. Specimens of Olandina. 



W. H. Pease. Melania Ka?iaiensis, Limnea rubella, Lea, L. turyidula. L. ambigua, 



and L. compacla. 

 J. S. Phillips. Two species of Marginella ; Aricia Scottii, Brod. ; Porccllana 



erythnrensis, Beck. 

 J. H. Redfield. Cyclophorus Kilagiricus, Benson ; fourteen species of Auricu- 



lidse, eight species of Ringicula, and nine species of Cylindrella. 

 S. R. Roberts. Helix alternata, Say, from Niagara Falls. 

 Rev. J. Rowell. Goniobasis circumliniata, Tryon, and a species of Physa. 

 W. S. W. Ruschexberger. Two specimens of Spondylus Delessertii, Chemn. r 



from Navigator's Island. 

 Mrs. Lucy W. Say. A unique rayed specimen of Unio cylindricus, Say, from 



the Wabash river. 

 John Wolf. Pleurocera Lewisii, and P. subulare, Lea, from Illinois River, Can- 

 ton, 111.: two species of Physa; two species of Limneidie; Amnicola parva, 



Lea, A. rustica, Say, and A. decisa, Haiti., from Illinois ; eleven species of 



Unionidu: and one of Sphs&rium from Canton, 111. 



The following were purchased with funds received from the sale of dupli- 

 cates : Cataulus h.-i'nastoma, from India ; Helix Skinneri, Reeve, from Ceylon ; 

 twenty-eight species operrulate land shells from West Inuies, new to collec- 

 tion, named by Thos. Bland, and six species of Cylindrella. 



A collection of one hundred and fifty-two species was sent to Sylvauus Han- 

 ley for shells received from him in 18G9. A similar collection was sent in ex- 

 change to Dr. J. C. Cox, of Sydney, N. S. W. 



Selections from the publications of the Section were sent in exchange to E. 

 A. Bielz, of Hermannstadt, F. de Malzine, of Bruxelles, E. von Martens, of Ber- 

 lin, M. Petit de la Saussaye, of Paris, W. H. Pease, of Honolulu, Paul Terver, 

 of Lyons, and Ralph Tate. 



In consequence of the comparative completeness of our collection in many 

 of the families, we have been forced to decline exchanging with foreign natu- 

 ralists, except when they are able to furnish us with specified desiderata. 



Through the liberality of Messrs. Jos. Jeanes, J. H. Redfield, Wm. L. Mac- 

 tier and W. S. Yaux, we have been enabled to place sixty-four drawers under 

 the horizontal cases. These drawers afford accommodations for the arrange- 

 ment of the fallowing families: the Poreellanidx, Cylindrellidiv, Cyclostomacea, 

 Auriculacea, the Helices, except the North American species, the Slugs, Vilrinte, 

 Succinex, and part of the Corbiculidzn. 



During the year, 10,060 shells have been cleansed, oiled, labelled and placed 

 in 3771 trays. Fifty beautiful sections, illustrating the genera arranged, have 

 been prepared by Dr. F. A. Hassler. 



Your Committee on the Arrangement of the Collection have met frequently 

 and devoted much time to the performance of the duty assigned them. They 

 have reason to refer with satisfaction to the above summary of the results of 

 their labors. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Conservator. 



[Dec. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



L57 



The election of Officers for the ensuing year was held, in accord- 

 ance with the By-Laws, with the following result: 



President, 



Vice Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Librarian, 



Treasurer, 



Curators, 



Council, 



Publication Committee, 



Committee on Finance, 



W. S. W. Ruschenherger, M. I). 



Win. S, Vaux, 

 Jos. Carson, M."D. 



Samuel B. Howell, M. D. 



Edward D. Cope. 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D. 



Wm. C. Henszey. 



Joseph Leidv, M. D., 

 William S. Vaux, 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 

 Edw. D. Cope. 



Isaac Lea, 



Robert Bridges, M. D., 

 Edw. S. Whelen, 

 Isaac Hays, M. D. 



Jos. Leidy, M. D. 

 Robert Bridges, M. D., 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 

 Edw. J.i Nolan, M. D. 



Wm. S. Vau X)> 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 Robert Bridges, M. D. 



1870.] 




158 ELECTIONS. 



ELECTIONS EOE 1870. 



Members and Correspondents of the Academy of Natural Sciences have been 

 elected as follows for the year 1870 : 



MEMBERS. 



Jan. 25. Charles T. Hunter, M. D. 



Feb. 22. Theodore L. Harrison, Jas. S. Martin, Chas. D. Reed. 

 March 29. Geo. Hewstou, of San Francisco, Cal., Alfred Tucker, W. Harrison 

 Eisenbrey. 



April 26. John T. Morris, Dwight D. Willard, Daniel B. Smith. 



May 31. Thos. H. Speakman, H. St. G. Elliott, M. D., George Rice, Wm. H. 

 Gumbes, Walter B. Comegys, Miss Grace Anna Lewis, Miss Hannah T. Small- 

 wood, Miss Ella Hornor. 



Sept. 27. Wm. B. Rogers, Jr., Wm. H. Pancoast, M. D., Green Smith, of 

 Cornell University, Thos. G. Gentry, Thos. Stewardson, H. Wier Workman. 



Oct. 25. J. Blodget Britton, J. Solis Cohen, M. D., Bushrod W. James, M.D., 

 Chas. K. Mills, M. D. 



Nov. 29. J. Ewing Mears, M. D., Chas. Shaffner, M. D., E. Wildman, M. D., 

 David L. Collier, Wm. H. Dougherty, W. H. Wahl, M. D. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



April 26. Prof. Frank H. Bradley, Knoxville, Tenu. 



May 31. Prof. Carl Wilhelm Boeck, of Christiania, Norway, Col. R. L. 

 Playfair, of Algiers. 



Sept. 27. John Jas. Stevenson, of Morgantown, W. Va., Prof. Igino Cocchi, 

 of Florence, Italy. 




CORK BSPONDENCE. 1 . r )9 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY, 



For 1870. 



January. Madame Charlotte Erdmann, announcing the death of Axel Joa- 

 chim Erdmann. 



Antonio Stoppani, announcing the death of Giuseppe Stabile. 



J. F. Peck, in regard to white fish. 



F. W. Putnam, in regard to the McNiel collection of reptiles. 



P. E. Gibbons, in regard to a snake sent. 



Geo. Davidson, with specimens sent. 



H. E. van Rijgersma, in regard to specimens sent. 



J. Hauxwell, in regard to arrival of boxes sent by the Academy. 



Geo. Davidson, in regard to specimens sent. 



Smithsonian Institution; 



Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien ; each acknowledging 

 receipt of Journal. 



Linnean Society ; 



British Museum ; 



Athenaeum, Pall Mall ; 



Nassauischen Vereins fur Naturkunde ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft des Osterlandes zu Altenburg; severally ac- 

 knowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Koniglich Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften; 



Academie Royale des Sciences a Amsterdam ; 



Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab i Kjobenhavn ; 



Geological Museum of Calcutta; severally acknowledging receipt of Journ. 

 and Proceedings. 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Frankfurt-am-Main; ac- 

 knowledging receipt of Jour, and Proc. and sending Pub. in return. 



Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Wien ; 



Academie Royale ii Amsterdam : 



Societe des Sciences de Finlande ; 



Universidad de Chile; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Emden ; 



Mannheimer Verein fur Naturkunde ; 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Frankfurt-am-Main ; 



Societe des Sciences Naturelles ; 



Aerztlichen Vereins in Frankfurt-am-Main ;_ 



Museets Naturhistoriske Afdeling Bergen, Norway ; 



Observatoire Physique Central; severally with publications. 



February. Daniel Turner, announcing the death of Dr. T. H. Turner. 



Smithsonian Institution; acknowledging receipt of parcels for distribution. 



James Orton, in regard to the purchase of books. 



Wm. Smith, offering to collect for Academy. 



W. E. Webh. in regard to footprints. 



Smithsonian Institution, with birds from Henry Bryant's collection. 



Wm. Smith, in regard to a snake. 



J. E. Carey, in regard to a whale ashore. 



Dr. W. Dunker, acknowledging receipt of books. 



Legation Imp6riale de Russie aux Estats ITnis, with Geological map 




160 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Academy of Sciences of Chicago ; 



Essex Tnst. ; 



N. Y. State Library ; severally acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Essex Inst. ; 



Smithsonian Inst. ; 



American Antiquarian Society : 



Lyceum of Natural History ; 



N. Y. State Library; severally acknowledging receipt of Journal. 



Library of Congress, acknowledging receipt of Jour, and Proc. 



K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft in Wien ; 



Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften in Wien ; 



Societe Hollandaise a Harlem ; severally with publication. 



March. Smithsonian Inst., with rules for sending packages. 



James M. Lea, presenting the herbarium of Thomas G. Lea. 



Chas. F. Hall, in regard to Arctic voyage. 



Naturforschende Verein in Briinn ; 



Academy of Sciences of Chicago ; 



Smithsonian Inst. ; severally acknowledging receipt of Proc. 



Smithsonian Inst ; acknowledging receipt of Journal. 



American Antiquarian Society, acknowledging receipt of Jour, and Proc. 



Akademie der Wissenschaften Miinchen; 



Societe Royale Hongroise des Sciences Naturelles ; 



Institution Royale Meteorologique Pays-Bas ; severally with publications. 



April. Smithsonian Inst. : 



Lyceum of Natural History ; each acknowledging receipt of Proc. 



British Museum, acknowledging receipt of Jour, and Proc. 



Geological Museum of Calcutta: 



Societe Entomologique de France ; 



Naturwissenschaftliche Verein zu Bremen : severally with publications. 



May. Smithsonian Inst., presenting birds. 



R. Instituto di Scienze Lettere ed Arti in Venezia, acknowledging receipt of 

 Proceedings. 

 Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften Prag, acknowledging receipt of Journal. 

 Zoological Society of London ; 



Royal Society of London ; each acknowledging receipt of Jour, and Proc. 

 Socie'te' Royale de Zoologie a, Amsterdam; 

 Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Milan ; 

 Bureau de la Recherche Geologique de la Suede ; 

 Academie Royale de Belgique ; severally with publications. 



June. Frank H. Bradley, acknowledging election as Correspondent. 



Essex Institution ; 



Academy of Sciences of Chicago ; each acknowledging receipt of Proc. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fur das Fiirstenthum Luneburg : 



Museo Publico de Buenos Aires ; 



Royal Geological Society of London ; severally with publications. 



July. R. L. Playfair, acknowledging election as Correspondent. 

 Smithsonian Inst., acknowledging receipt of Proc. 

 Academie Royale de Belgique, acknowledging receipt of Journal. 

 Linnean Society, acknowledging receipt of Jour, and Proc, and sending 

 publications. 



Societe" Hollandaise des Sciences a Harlem, with publications. 



August. R. Rawson, acknowledging election as Correspondent. 

 Geo. Davidson, in regard to sea-lion sent. 

 W. A. Gordon, in regard to exchange of fossils. 



Koniglich Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig, with pub- 

 lications. 




OOKRESPONDENC'K. K',1 



September. W. Webster Butterfield, M. D., asking for copies of By-laws and 

 list of Members. 



Magyar Tudoinanyos Akademia Pest, acknowledging receipt of Proc. 



October. H. Weir Workman ; 



Wm. B. Rogers, Jr. ; 



Greene Smith; severally acknowledging election as members of the A. N. S. 



A. E. Buck, in regard to a lamprey eel. 



Smithsonian Inst., acknowledging receipt of box. 



American Geographical and Statistical Society; 



Museum at Bergen, Norway : 



California Academy of Sciences ; 



Athenaeum Pall Mall : 



Lyceum Natural History; severally acknowledging receipt of Proceedings. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Emden, with publications. 



November. Temple C. Harrison, asking for copy of By-laws. 

 British Museum ; 



Anthropological Society of Loudon ; each acknowledging receipt of Proc. 

 Koninklijke Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch-Indie a Batavia ; 

 Det Kongelige Danske Vidcnskabernes Selskab Gopenhague ; each with 

 publications. 



Number of letters received 1870, 127. 

 " " ' : written " 65. 

 Number of members elected, 37. 

 " " correspondents, 5. 



EDWARD D. COPE 



Correspon ding Secretary . 






 162 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



10*70. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



SWEDEN. 



Christiania. Forhandlingar i Videnskabs-Selskabet i Christiania. Aar, 1868. 

 From the Society. 



Forhandlingar ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskeres Tiende Mode i Chris- 

 tiania fra den 4de til den lOde Juli, 1868. From the Society. 



Det K. Norske Frederiks Universitets Aarsberetning for Aaret, 1868. From 

 the Society. 



Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskabernes udgives af den physiographiske 

 Forening i Christiania. 6de Binds, 1, 2, 3 and 4 Hei'te. From the 

 Society. 



Norske Meteorologisk Aarbog for 1868. 2den Aargang. From the Ob- 

 servatory. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. M<jmoires de la Societe Rojale des Antiquaires du Nord. Nou- 

 velle Serie. 1868 and 1869. From the Society. 

 Oversigt over det K. dariske Videnskabernes Selskabs. 1868, Nos. 5 and 



6; 1869, Nos. 2, 3 and 4; 1870, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Tillajg til Aarboger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie. Aargang, 1869. 

 Udgivet af det K. Nordiske Oldskrift-Selskab, 1870. From the Society. 

 Videnskabelige Meddelelser fra den natnrhistoriske Forening i Kjoben- 



havn for Aarets, 1868 1870. From the Society. 

 Videnskabernes Selskabs-Skrifter Vll Baud, 6 and 7; VIII Band, 1. 

 1870. From the Copenhagen Academy. 

 Drontheim. Det K. Norske Videnskabernes-Selskabs Skrifter i det 19de Aar- 

 hundrede. FemteBand, lste and 2e Heft. 1868. From the Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Archiv fur die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst und Kurlands. Hcrausgegeben 



vou der Dorpater Naturforscher-Geaellschaft. 1st Serie. 4er Band. 



1868. From the Society. 

 Helsingfors. Ofversigt af Finska Vetenskaps-Societeteu Forhandlingar. XII. 



18691870. From the Society. 

 Bidrag till kiinnedom af Fialands Natur och Folk, utgifna af Finska 



Vetenskaps Societeten. Femtonde und Sextonde Haftet. 1870. From 



the Society. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Soc. Imp. des Naturalistes de Moscou. Annee, 1868, 



No. 4, to 1870, No. 1. From the Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Hora? Societatis Entomological Rossica?. Tome VI. 1868. 



From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 163 



Annales de TObservatoire Physique Central de Ilussie publieea par II. 



Wild. Ann6e, 1865. From the author. 

 Jahresbericht des Physikalische Central-Observatoriums fiir 1809. Von 



H. Wild, 1870. From the Editor. 

 Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. 7e Serie. Tome XIII, 



No. 8, to Tome XV, No. 8. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. Tome XIV, No. 1, to 



Tome XV, No. 2. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Jaarboek van de K. Akademie van Wetenschappen, gevestigd te 



Amsterdam. .1868. From the Society. 

 Hague. Archives N6erlandaises des Sciences Exactes et Naturelles. Tome 



IV and Tome V, Nos. 1, 2 and 3. 1870. From the Publishing Society. 

 Utrecht. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Jaarboek voor 1869. 21er Jahrg. 



lste Deel. 1869. From the Meteorological Institute. 



GERMANY. 



Altenbnrg. Jlittheilungen aus clem Osterlande. 19er Band, les und 2es Heft 



1869. From the Publishing Societies. 



Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgeschichte. 35er Jahrg., No. 2, to 36er Jahrg., No. 

 2. 1869. From the Editor. 

 Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben von dem Entomo- 

 logischer Vereine. 13er Jahrg., 1869, 3es and 4es Vierteljahresheft. 



1870, les and 2es Heft. From the Society. 



Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie der Wissenschal'ten. Nov., 1869, to 



Juli, 1870. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. XXI Band. 4 Heft. 



to XXII Band. 3 Heft From the Society. 



Zeitschrift fur die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Herausgegeben von 



dem Naturw. Vereine fiir Sachsen und Tlninngen in Halle. Jahrg., 



1869. 33er und 34er Band. Neue Folge. 1870. Band 1. From the 



' Society. 



Sitzungs-Bericht der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freuude. Jahre, 



1869. From the Society. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereines zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues in den K. 

 P. Staaten fur Gartner ei und Pflanzenkunde. "XII Jahrg., 1869. From 

 the Editor. 

 Bonn. Verhandlungen des Naturhistori-chen Vereines der Preussischen Rhein- 

 lande und Westphalens. 26er Jahrg., 3e Folge. 6 Jahrg., 1 and 2 

 Hafte. 1869. From the Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fur Anthropologic. 4er Band, 1870, les und 2es Vier- 



teljahrsheft. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Bremen. Abhaodlungen herausgegeben vom Naturwissenscbaftlichen Ver- 

 eine. 2 Bd., 2 Heft. 1870. From the Society. i 

 Briinn. Verhandlungen des Naturforschenden Vereines in Brunn. 'N II Band. 



1868. From the Society 

 Cassel. Journal fiir Ornithologie. XVII Jahrg., Heft VI., XT III Jahrg., Heft 



I, II and III. 18691870. Purchased. ,,, 



Dresden. Sitzungsberichte der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschafl [sis in 



Dresden. Jahrg., 1869, No. 7, to 1870, Juni. From the Society. 

 Emden. Vierundfiinfzigster und 2'5er Jahresbericht der Naturforschenden 



Gesellschaft. 18681869. From the Society. 

 Frankfurt, A. M. Der Zoologische Garten. X Jahrg., 1869, No. 1, to .\J 

 Jahrg., 1870, No. 6. From the Editor. 

 Jahresbericht ueber die Verwalting des Medicmalwesens der Stadt riank- 

 furt, A. M. X Jahrg. 1866. From the Publishing Society. 




164 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Abhandlungen, herausgegeben der Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden 

 Gesellschaft. 7en Bandes, les and 2es Heft. 1869. From the Society. 

 Berichte iiber die Senckenbergische Naturforscbende Gesellschaft von 

 Juni, 1868, bis Juni, 1869. From the Society. 

 Freiburg. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesell- 

 schaft. Band V, Heft II. 1869. From the Society. 

 Gottingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und der 

 Georg- Augusts Universitiit aus dem Jahre, 1869. From the Society. 

 Astronomische Mittheilungen von K. Sternwarte zu Gottingen. Heraus- 

 gegeben von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen. ler 

 Theil. 1869. From the Society. 

 Giistrow. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Meklen- 



burg. 23 Jahr. From the Society. 

 Hannover. Achtzehnter und 19er Jahresbericht der Naturhistorischen Gesell- 

 schaft. 1869. From the Society. 

 Konigsberg. Schriften der K. Physikalisch-Okonomischen Gesellschaft. 18er 

 Jahrg., und 19er Jahrg., lste and 2e Abth., 1868. 20er Jahrg., 1 and 2 

 Abth. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Bericht iiber die Verhandlungen der K. Sachsischen Gesellschaft 

 der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig. Vlathematisch-Physische Classe, 1867, 

 III. IV; 1868, I, III ; 1869, I. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. IX, I, and II 1869. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fur Wissenschaftliche Zoologie. 19er Band, 4es Heft, to 20er 



Band, 3es Heft. Purchased. 

 Jahrbiicher fur Wissenschaftlichen Botanik. 7er Band, 3es Heft. 1869. 

 Purchased. 

 Liineburg. Jahresbericht des Naturwissenschaftlichen Vereins fiir das Fiir- 



stenthum Liineburg. Ill und IV. From the Society. 

 Mannheim. Funfunddreissigster Jahresbericht des Mannheimer Vereins fiir 



Naturkunde. 1869. From the Society. 

 Marburg. Sitzungsberichte der Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der gesammten 

 Naturwissenschaften in Marburg. Jahrg. 1866 1867 1868. From 

 the Society. 

 Schriften der Gesellschaft zur befajrderung der gesammten Naturwissen- 

 schaften zu Marburg. Supplement Heft, III, IV, und V. From the 

 Society. 

 Munich. Annalen der K. Sternwarte bei Miinchen. XVII Band und IX Sup- 

 plementband. 1869. r'rom the Observatory. 

 Verzeichniss von 6323 telescopischen Sterneu. VIII Supplementband. 



1869. From the Munich Observatory. 

 Abhandlungen der K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Philosophisch- 

 Philologischen Classe. X Band,3e Abth. ; XI Bandes, 3e Abtheilung; 

 XII Band, lste Abth. Historischen Classe. XI Bandes, lste Abth. ; 

 lOen Bandes, 2e Abth. Miinchen. 1868. From the Society. 

 Sitzungberichte der K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. 1869, I, Heft I, 

 to 1870, I, Heft IV. From the Society. 

 OiTeubach, A. M. Zehnter Bericht des Oifenbacher Vereins fiir Naturkunde. 



18681869. From the Society. 

 Passau. Siebeuter und Achter Jahres-Bericht des Xaturhistorischen Vereines 



in Passau. 1865 bis 1868. From the Society. 

 Pesth. A. Kiralyi Magyar Terraeszettudomauyi Tarsulat Kozlonye. 1865 

 1866 1867. From the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. 

 A. Kiralyi Magyar Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat Tort^nete Alapittata- 



satol Fogva. Maig, 1868. From the same. 

 Termeszettudomauyi Kozlony. Elso Kotet, 1 9. Fiizet. 1869. From 

 the same. 

 Prag. Repertorium Sammtlichen Schriften der K. Bohmischen Gesellschaft 

 der Wissenschaften vom Jahre. 1769 bis 1868. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte of the same. 1869. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 165 



Abhandlungen of the same. Sechste Folge, 3er Band. Prom the Society. 

 Regensburg. Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologisch-Mineralogischen Vereines 



in Regensburg. 23er Jahrg. 1869. From the Society. 

 Flora oder Allgemeine Botanische Zeitung herausgegeben von der K. B. 



Botanischen Gesellschaft. Neue Reihe, XXVII, Jahrg. 1869. From 



the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie, Geologie und Paheontologie. 



Jahrgang, 1869, 6es Heft, to 1870, 5es Heft. From the Editor. 

 Vienna. Mittheilungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 1 Band, 



Probennmmer, Nos. 2 and 3. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathematisch- 



Naturwissenschaftlichen Classe. 58 Band, 1st Abth., to 60er Band, 1, 



2 Abth., I and II Heft. From the Society. 

 Denkschrifttn der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Math.-Naturw. 



Classe 29er Band. 1869. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. No. 10, 1869, to No. 



9, 1870. From the Bureau. 

 Jahrbuch of the same. Jahrg., 1869, XIX Band, No. 3, to 1870, XX Band, 



No. 1. From the Bureau. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Zoologisch-Botanischen Gesellschaft in Wien. 



Jahrg., 1869. XIX Band. From the Society. 

 Schriften des Vereines zur Verbreitung Naturwissenschaftlichen Kennt- 



nisse in Wien. Bands II VIII. From the Society, 

 Wiirzburg. Verzeichniss der Bibliothek der Physikalisch-Medicinischen Ge- 

 sellschaft. 1869. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen of the same. Neue Folge, 1 Band, 4 Heft, 1869. From 



the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Bern. Mittheilungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft aus dem Jahre. 1869. 

 No. 684711. 1870. From the Society. 



Geneva. Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse. Archives des Sciences 

 Physiques et Naturelles. Nouvelle Periode. Tome 36me, No. 143, to 

 Tome 38, No. 152. From the Editor. 



Lausanne. Bulletin de la Socidte Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Vol. 

 X, No. 62. 1869. From the Society. 



Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Neuchatel. 

 Tome VIII, 2me Cahier. 1869. From the Society. 



Solothurn. Verhandlungen der Schweizerischen Naturforschenden Gesell- 

 schaft. 53 Jahresversammlung. 1869. From the Society. 



St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thatigkeit der St. Gallischen Naturwissen- 

 schaftlichen Gesellschaft wahrend des Vereinsjahres 18671868. From 

 the Society. 



Zurich. Vierteljahresschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. Her Jahrg., 

 l_4es Heft. 1869. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Anuuaire de 1' Academie Royale des Sciences, des Belles-Lettres 



et des Beaux-Arts de Belgique. 1870. 36me Anne'e. From the 



Society. 

 Bulletin of the same. 38me Ann6e, 2me Ser. Tomes 27 and 28, 1869. 



From the Society, 

 Memoires Couronnes of the same. Col. in 8vo Tome XXI, Col. in 4to 



Tome XXXIV. From the Society. 

 Louvain. Annuaire de l'Universite' Catbolique. 1870. 34me Anne'e. From 



the University. 

 Mons. M6moires et Publications de la Societe des Sciences, des Arts et des 



Lettres du Hainaut. 18691870. From the Society. 




166 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



FRANCE. 



Anger3. Memoires de la Socie"t6 Academique de Maine et Loire. Tomes XXI 



XXIV. From the Society. 

 Bordeaux. Soei6te" des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de Bordeaux. Tomes 

 V VII. 1867 1869. Extrait des Proees-Verbaux des Stances, pp. 

 132. From the Society. 

 Actes de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. 3e 

 Serie, 30e Annee, 3me et 4me Trimestre, 1868. 31e Annee, ler Tri- 

 mestre, 1869. From the Society. 

 Actes de la Societe Linneenne de Bourdeaux. Tome XXIV, 5e et Ce Livr. 

 Tome XXVII, Ire Partie. 187<>. From the Society. 

 Lyon. Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et 

 Arts. Classe des Sciences. Tome 17me. 1869 1870. From the 

 Society. 

 Annales de la Societe Linneenne de Lyon. Annee, 1869. Tome 17me. 

 From the Society. 

 Metz. Bulletin de la Societe d'Histoire Naturelle du Departement de la Mo- 

 selle. 12me Cabier, 1870. From the Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Societe" d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belle-Lettres et Arts 

 d'Orleans. Seconde S6rie. Tome VIII, Nos. 1 et 2. 1870. From the 

 Society. 

 Cherbourg. Memoires de la Societe Impdriale des Sciences Naturelles de 



Cherbourg. Tomes XIII et XIV. 1869. From the Society. 

 Paris. Annales de la Societe Entomologique de France. 4me Serie. Tome 

 9me. 1869. From the Society. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Botanique, Tome X, Nos. 3 6 ; Tomes 



XI, XII, et XIII ; Tome XIV, No. 1. Purchased. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France. Tome 16me. 1869. Comp. 



Rendu, 4 5. 1870. 1 Rev. Bibl. A E. From the Society. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la Soci6te Imperiale Zoologique d'Acclimatation. 



2me Serie. Tome VII, Nos. 1 7. From the Society. 

 Annales des Mines. 6me Serie. Tome XVI, 5e et 6e Livr. ; Tome XVII. 



Livr. 1 3. From the Minister of Public Works in France. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie. Tome IX, No. 4; Tome X, Nos. 



2 et 3. Paris. 1869. From the Editors. 

 Nouvelles Archives du Museum d'histoire Naturelle de Paris. 1869. 3me 



et 4me Fasc. Purchased. 

 Nouvelles Met6orologiques, pubises sous les auspices de la Societe Me"- 

 tSorologique de France. 1869, Nos. 11 et 12; 1870, Nos. 1 et 2. From 

 the Society. 

 Revue et Magazin de Zoologie. 1869, No. 9, to 1870, No. 6. From the 

 Editor. 

 Strasbourg. Memoires de la Societe" des Sciences Naturelles de Strasbourg. 

 Tome 6me, 2me Livr. 1870. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles. No. 1, Ire Annee, to No. 

 10, 2e Annee. 18681869. From the Society. 

 Toulouse. Memoires de l'Academie Imperiale des Sciences, Inscriptions et 

 Belles-Lettres de Toulouse. 7me Serie. Tome I. 1869. From the 

 Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto della Sessioni dell' Accademia delle Scienze dell' Isti- 



tuto di Bologna. Anno 1868 1869. From the Society. 

 Memorie of the same. Serie II. Tome VIII. Fasc. I, 2, 3 and 4. From 



the Society. 

 Cagnola. Atti della Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola. Vol. V, No. 1. From 



the Society. 

 Catania. Atti dell' Accademia Givenia di Scienze Naturali di Catania. Serie 



Terza. Tomo II et Tomo XLIII. 18681869. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. KIT 



Genoa. Effemeridi della Societa di Letture e Conversazioni Scientifichi, 



Anno 1, Fasc. 1. 1870. From the Society. 

 Milan. Memorie del R. [stituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Classe di 

 Scienze, Mathematiche e Naturali. Vol. X, Fasc. IV and V; Vol. XI. 

 Fasc. I and II. From the Society. 

 Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti. Classe di 

 Scienze, Mathematiche e Naturali. Vol. IV, Pts. II X, Serie II ; Vol. 

 I and II, Nos. I XVI. From the Society. 

 Programma del R. Istituto Technieo Superiore in Milano per L'anno Sco- 



lastico 1864 1869. From the Institute. 

 Annuario del Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. 1868. Prom 

 the Society. 

 Palermo. Giornale di Scienze Naturali et Economic-he publicato per eura del 

 Consiglio di Perfezionamento annesso al R. Istituto Technieo di Paler- 

 mo. Parte I Scienze Naturali. 1869. From the Society. 

 Turin. Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Vol. IV, Disp. 1 

 7. 1869. From the Society. 

 Sunti dei Lavori Scientifici Letti e Discussi di Scienze Morali, Storiche e 

 Filologicbe delle Reale Accademia delle Scienze di Torino dal 1859 

 al 1865. Torino. 1868. From the Society. 

 Venice. Atti del Reale Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Torao 13o, 

 Disp. 1 10; Tomo 14o, Disp. 16,8 and 9. Venezia. 18671869. 

 From the Society. 

 Memoria del Regio Istituto Veneto. di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Vol. XIV, 

 Part II. From the Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Dublin. The Journal of the Royal Dublin Society. Nos. 38 and 39. From 



the Socieiy. 

 The Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy. Vol. XXIV. Polite Lit- 

 erature, Part IV : Antiquities, Part VIII ; Science, Parts IX to XV. 



1867. From the Society. 

 Edinburgh. Transactions of the Royal Society. Vol. XXV, Part 11. From 



the Society. 

 Proceedings of the same. Vol. VI, No. 77. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society. Vol. I, Part II. 1870. 



From the Society. 

 Transactions and Proceedings of the Botanical Society. Vol. X, Part 1. 



1869. From the Society. 

 Leeds. Philosophical and Literary Society. The Annual Report for 1869 



70. From the Society. 

 Report of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of 



the West Riding of Yorkshire, 1869. From the Society. 

 London. The Annals and Magazine of Natural History. 4th Series. Vol. 3, 



No. 18, to Vol. 4, No 34. From the Library Fund. 

 The Athenaeum Journal, Nos. 2189 to 2235. From the Wilson Fund. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal 



of Science. Vol. 37, 4th Series, No. 251 to Vol. 39, Nos. 261 and 263 to 



267. 1869. Purchased. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britiau. Vol. V, Parts o, 



6 and 7,Vol. VI, Parts 1 and 2. List of Members, etc. From the 



TheFo e od Journal, Nos. 110. Vol. 1. 1870. From the Editor 



The Ibis. New Series. Vol. V, No. 20, to Vol. VI, No. 23. Irom the 



Wilson Fund. , B ... 



Notes and Queries. Part XVII, 4th Series, to XXXIII. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



New Series. Vol. IV, Part 2. 1870. From the Society. 




168 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Journal of the Statistical Society of London. Vol. XXXII, Part IV, Dec, 



1869. From the Society. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. XXVI, Parts 1 and 



2. From the Society. 

 The Journal of Anatomy and Physiologj'. 2d Series. Nos. 4, 5 and 6. 



Purchased. 

 Nature. Nos. 15, 2225, 37, 40, 4248 and 51. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of the Chemical Society. From July, 1869, to Oct., 1870. 



From the Society. 

 Trubner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 52 60. From 



the Publishers. 

 The Student and Intellectual Observer. No. 24, Jan., 1870, to No. 4, 



New Series. From the Editor. 

 English Mechanic and Mirror of Science. Vol. XI, Nos. 276 283. From 



the Editor. 

 Report of the thirty-ninth meeting of the British Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science. 1869. Purchased. 

 Pala?ontological Society's Publications. Vol. XXIII. Issued for 1869. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 The Journal of the Society of Arts and of the Institution in Union. Vol. 



XXII, 1869. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society- Vol. XVII, No. 110, to Vol. XVIII, 



No. 118. From the Society. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the same, 1869. Vol. 159, Parts 1 and 2. 



From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society. Vol. XIII, No. 1, to Vol. 



XIV, No. 1, 1868. From the Society. 

 Journal of the same. Vol. 39. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Zoological Society. 1865, Part III. 1867, Part I. 



1869, Parts II and III. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. VII, Parts 1 and 2. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Linnean Socieiy. Sessions 1868 69, 1869 70. 

 Journal of the same. Botany, Vol. X, No. 48 ; Vol. XI, Nos. 49 53, and 



Vol. XII. Zoology. Vol. X, Nos. 4348, 1869. 

 The Transactions of the Linnean Society. Vol. XXV, Part 1, 1865. From 



Wm. S. Vaux. 

 The same. Vol. XXVI, Parts 2, 3 and 4, Vol. XXVII, Parts 1 and 2, 

 186869. From the Society. 

 New-Castle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 

 and Durham. Vol. Ill, Part 2, 1870. From the Publishing Society. 



UNITED STATES. 



Albany. Manual of the Albanj r Institute, 1870. From the Society. 



Transactions of the Albany Institute. Vol. VI. From the Society. 

 Forty-second Annual Report of the Trustees of the New York State 

 Library, 1870. From the Trustees. 

 Baltimore. Peabody Institute. 3d Annual Report of the Provost, 1870. From 



the Institute. 

 Boston. Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. XIII, 

 Pp. 161288. From the Society. 

 Seventeenth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Public Library, 1869. 



From the Trustees. 

 The Literary World. Vol. I, Nos. 17, 1870. From the Editor. 

 Cambridge. Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard Col- 

 lege. Nos. 8 15. Vol. II, No. 1. From the Director. 

 Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. VIII 

 Pp. 1 136, 1870. From the Society. 

 Chicago. The Pharmacist. Vol. Ill, Jan., 1870, Nos. 1 4 From the Editor. 

 The Arts. Vol. I, Nos. 13, 1870. From the Editor. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 169 



Transactions of the Chicago Academy of Sciences. Vol. I, Pari 2, 1869. 



From the Society. 

 Indianapolis. The Indiana Journal of Medicine. Vol. I. No. 8 From the 



Editor. 

 Louisville. The Journal of Science, Nov., 1870. From the Editor. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. 2d Series. Vol. 



49, Nos. 145150, 1870. From the Editor. 

 New York. New York Medical Journal. Vol. X, No. 4, to Vol. XII, No. 4. 



From the Editor. 

 The Medical Record. Nos. 92 and 93. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of Applied Science. No. 5, Vol. I, May, 1870. From the 



Editor. 

 The Chemical News and Journal of Physical Sciences. Vol. VI, Nos. 2 6, 



1870. From Messrs. Townsend & Adams. 

 The American Chemist. Vol. I, Nos. 2 6, 1870. From the Editor. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History of New York. Vol. IX, No. 



710, 1869. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Lyceum of Natural History in the City of New York. 



Vol. I, Pp. 1 44. From the Society. 

 First Annual Report of the American Museum of Natural History. From 



the Trustees. 

 The American Gas-Light Journal. Vol. XII, No. 7, to Vol. XIII, No. 10. 



From the Editor. 

 Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Nos. 1 10. From Thomas 



Meehan. 

 Philadelphia. American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. 42, Nos. 1 G. 3d 



Series, Jan., 1870. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. XII, No 2. From the Editor. 

 The American Journal of Medical Sciences. Nos. 117 120. New Series, 



Jan., 1870. From the Editor. 

 The Medical News and Library. Vol. 28, Nos. 328336. From the 



Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. New Series. Vol. XII, Nos. 112, 1870. From 



the Editors. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. XII, Nos. 1 12. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. No. 3, 1869, to No. 1, 



1870. From the Publication Committee. 

 Scientific Journal. New Series. Vol. I, Xo. 1, to Vol. II, No. 3. From 



the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XI, Nos. 8284, 



1870. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. XIV. New Series, Part 2, 1870. From 



the Society. 

 The Penn Monthly Magazine. Nos. 4 12, 1870. From the Editor. 

 Salem. The American Naturalist. Vol. Ill, No. 11, to Vol. IV, No. 2. From 



the Library Fund. 

 Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Vol. I, No. 5, to Vol. II, No. 8. From the 



Society. 

 Essex Institute Historical Collections. Vol. X, Part 1, 1869. From the 



Proceedings and Communications of the Essex Institute. Vol. VI, Part 

 1, 1868. From the Society. 

 San Fraucisco. The California Farmer for 1870. From the Editor. 



Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences. Vol. IV, Part 2, 

 1870. From the Society. 

 St.- Louis. The American Eutomologist and Botanist. Vol. II. Nos. 311, 



1870. Purchased. 

 1870.] 12 




170 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Washington. Monthly Report of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Depart- 

 ment. Nos. 2 to 11, 186970. From the Department. 

 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVI. From the Institu- 

 tion. 

 Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vols. VIII and IX. From the 



Institution. 

 Annual Report of the Surgeon General, U. S. A., 1870 From the Author. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. Oct. 21, 1869, 

 April 27, 1870. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Halifax. Proceedings and Transactions of the Nova Scotia Institute of 



Natural Science of Halifax, Nova Scotia. Vol. II, Part 3. From the 



Society. 

 Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist. New Series. Vol. IV. Nos. 3 and 4 ; 



Vol. V, No. I, Sept., 1869. From the Editors. 

 Quebec. The Canadian Journal of Science, Literature and History. Vol. XII, 



Nos. 3, 6 and 10. From the Editors. 

 Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society. Sessions of 1869 70. 



New Series, Part 7. From the Society. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Entomologist. Vol. II, Nos. 4 9, 1870. From the 



Editor. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Buenos Aires. Anales del Museo publico de Buenos Aires. Entregas Sexta 



et Septima, 1860. From the Museum. 

 Santiago de Chile. Anales de la Universidad de Chile, 1867 and 1868. From 



the University. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlaudsch Indie, uitgegeven door 

 de K. Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie. Deel 30, 

 Zesde Serie. Deel V, Aft. 36, 1868. From the Society. 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC WORKS. 



Abbott, C. C. Notes on Fresh-water Fishes of New Jersey. From the 

 Author. 



Allen, J. A. Notes on some of the Rarer Birds of Massachusetts. Salem, 

 1869. From the Author. 



Andrews, Dr. E. The North American Lakes, considered as Chronometers of 

 Post-Glacial Time. Chicago, 1870. From the Author. 



Annual Report of the Board of Supervisors of Louisiana State Seminary of 

 Learning. Topograghical and Botanical Reports. Session 1870. New 

 Orleans, 1870. From D. F. Boyd. 



Annual Report of the State Geologist of New Jersey for 1869. From the 

 Author. 



Annual Report of the Geological Survey of India and of the Museum of Geo- 

 logy, Calcutta. Twelfth year, 1867. From the Survey. 



Aradas, Dott. A. Elogio Accademico del Prof. Cav. Carlo Gemmellaro. Ca- 

 tania, 1869. From the Author. 



Blanford, W. T. Observations on the Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia. 

 London, 1870. Purchased. 



Blume, C. L. Complete Works of C. L. Blume, consisting of Flora Javae, 

 Museum Botanicum Lugdwno-Batavum, Collection des Orchidees and 

 Rumphia, sive Commentatione Botanic*. 12 folio and 2 octavo vol- 

 umes. Presented by Messrs. Jos. Jeanes, A. J. Brasier, Geo. W. Tryon, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 171 



Jr., J. II. Redfield, Isaac Lea, Wra. S. Vaux, Thos. Meeban, B. Durand 

 and Ohas. Schaffer. M. D. 



Borre M. Alt'. Preudhomme de. Description d'une nouvelle espfice Americ 

 du genre Caiman. From the Author. 

 Notice sur des debris de Cheloniens faisent partie des Collections du 

 tWusSe Royal d'Histoire Naturelle et provenant des Terrain Tei 

 des environs de Bruxelles. From the Author. 



Bradley, F. H. Geology of Vermilion County. From the Author. 



Brinton, D. G. Contributions to a Grammar of the Muskokee Lamni 

 1870. From the Author. 



Bronn, Dr. H. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. 5er Band, 11, 

 12 & 13 Lief. 6er Band, IV Abth. Leipzig, 1870. From the Wilson 

 Fund. 



Byington, Rev. Cyrus. Grammar of the Choctaw Language. Edited by D. 

 G. Brinton, M. D. From the Editor. 



Capellini, Prof. Cav. Giov. Ricordi di un Viaggio Scientifico nell' America 

 Septentrionale nel 1863. Bologna, 1867. From the Author. 

 Fossili Infraliassici dei Intorni del Golfo della Spezia. Bologna, 1 



From the Author. 

 Les Phyllites Cretacees du Nebraska. From the Author. 

 Giaeimeuti Petroleiferi di Vallachia e loro rapporti coi terreni terziari 

 dell Italia Centrale. Bologna, 18G8. From the Autli ir. 



Catalogue of books added to the Liorary of Congress from Dec. 1, 18G8, to 

 Dec. 1, 1869. Washington. From the Librarian. 



Catalogue of the Maps of the British Possessions in India ami other parts of 

 Asia. London, 1870. From the Secretary of State for India. 



Catalogue of Scientific Papers, 1800 1863. Compiled and published by the 

 Royal Society of London. Vol. Ill, 1869. From the Society. 



Conrad, T. A. Descriptions of new fossil shells of the Upper Amazon. From 

 the Author. 



Cope, E. D. Second addition to the history of the Fishes of the Cretaceous 

 of the U. S. From the Author. 

 Fourth Contribution to the History of the Fauna of the .Miocene and Eo- 

 cene Periods of the United States. From the Author. 

 On the Hypothesis of Evolution. From the Author. 



Cotteau et Triger Kchinides du Departement de la Sarthe. Paris, 1855 1869. 

 From the Wilson Fund. 



Credner, Dr. H. Geognostische Aphorismen aus Nord-Amerika. Taf. I. From 

 the Author. 

 Die vorsilurischen Gebilde der Oberen Halbinsel von Michigan in Nord- 

 Amerika. From the Author. 



Dall, W. H. and H. M. Bannister. List of the Birds of Alaska, with Biogra- 

 phical Notes. From W. IT. Dall. 



Dana, Jas. D. On the Geology of the New Haven Region. 1870. From the 

 Author. 



Davidson, Geo. United States Coast Survey. Pacific Coast Pilot of Alaska 

 (Part First). Coast Pilot of California, Oregon and Washington Terri- 

 tory. 2 vols. Washington, 1869. From the Coast Survey. 



Davidson," Hunter. Report upon the Oyster Resources of Maryland. Anna- 

 polis, 1870. From the Author. 



Decandolle, A. Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Vegetabilis. Pars 16. 

 Parisiis, 1869. From the Wilson Fund. 



Delfortrie, M. E. Description d'une machoire infYsrieure de Squalodon Grate- 

 loupi. From the Author. 



Des Moulins, M. Chas. Quelques reflexions sur la doctrine scientih'que due 

 Darwinisme. 

 Rapport a l'Academie de Bordeaux sur deux Memoires de MM. Limb 



le Cte. Alexis de Chasteigner. 

 Specification et noms legetimes de six Echinolampes. 




172 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sur les Epines des Echinocidarites. 



Note Bibliographique sur les Pucerons. From the Author. 

 Dozy, F. and J. H. Molkenbauer. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc. 61, 62 and 63. 



1869. From the Wilson Fund. 



Dubois , Ch. F. Oiseaux de l'Europe. 238me, 239241 Livr. 1869. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Dunker, Dr. W. Palaeontographica. 17 Band, 4e Lief. 19 Band, 2e Lief. 



3e Lief. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Edwards, Arthur Mead. Notes on Diatoniacete. Boston, 1870. From the 



Author. 

 Egerton, Sir Philip de Malpas Grey. Alphabetical Catalogue of type speci- 

 mens of Fossil Fishes in the Collection at Oulton Park. From the 



Author. 

 Ennis, J. Tbe Origin of the Stars. 2d Ed. New York, 1868. From the 



Author. 

 Frauenfeld, G. Ritter von. Beitrage zur Fauna der Nicobaren. III. From 



the Author. 

 Die Ausgestorbenen und Austerben Thiere der jiingsten Erdperiode. From 



the Author. 

 Ueber Massenerschinungen namentlich im Thierreich. From the Author. 

 Fryer, G. E. A Contribution to our Knowledge of Pelagic Mollusca. From 



the Author. 

 Garcia, Dr. D. Jose Garcia y. Relaciones de los Vireyes del Nuevo Reino de 



Granada. Neuva York, 1869. From the Author. 

 Geological Maps of Sweden, Eleven. From the Geological Survey. 

 Gerstaecker, Dr. A. Benefit iiber die wissenschaftlichen Leistungen im Ge- 



biete der Entomologie. 2e Halfte. Berlin, 1869. Purchased. 

 Gervais, P. Zoologie et Paleontologie generales. lere Serie. Livr. 12 & 13. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Ghirardini, Dr. Ales. Studi sulla Lingua Umana sopra alcuni Antiche Inscri- 



zione e sulla Ortografia Italiana. Milano, 1869. From the Author. 

 Goltz, Dr. F. Beitrage zur Lehre von dera Functionem der Nervencentren des 



Frosches. Berlin, 1869. Purchased. 

 Gould, John. The Birds of Asia. Parts XXI, XXII. 

 A Monograph of the Trogonidre. Part II. 1869. 

 The Birds of Australia. Supplement, Part 5. 



The Birds of Great Britain. Parts VII, VIII, XV XVIII. From the Wil- 

 son Fund. 

 Gregg, Dr. W. H. Catalogue of the Birds of Chemung County, X. Y. Elmira, 



1870. From the Author. 



Gunther, Albert. Catalogue of the Fishes in the British Museum. Vol. 8. 

 London, 1870. Purchased. 



Hassey, 0. Enquiridiou de las Raices Griegas. Mexico, 1870. From the 

 Author. 



Ilasskarl, C. Commelinacea? Indica?, imprimis Archipelagi Indici adjectis 

 nonnullis hisce terris alienis. Vindobonae, 1870. From the Author. 



Ilanley, Sylvanus and Wm. Theobald. Conchologia Indica. Part I. Lon- 

 don, 1870. Purchased. 



Hayden, F. V. Preliminary Field Report of the United States Geological Sur- 

 vey of Colorado and New Mexico. Washington, 1869. From the 

 Author. 



Hewitson, Wm. C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 73 and 74. From the Wilson 

 Fund. 



Hinrichs, G. Contributions to Molecular Science or Atomechanics. Iowa 

 City, 1868. From the Author. 



Hitchcock, C. H. First Annual Report upon the Geology and Mineralogy of 

 the State of New Hampshire. 1869. From the Author. 

 Second Annual Report upon the Geology and Mineralogy of the State of 



New Hampshire. From the Author. 

 The Elevation of Mountains. 1870. From the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 173 



Hoffman, Dr. C. K. and H. Wyenbergh. Die Osteologie und Mvologie von 

 Sciurus vulgaris, L. Harlem, 1870. From the Hollandiseha Academy. 



Homes, Dr. M. Die Fossilen Moll usken des Tertiaer-beckens von Wieil. II 

 Band, No. 9, 10. Bivalven. 1870. From the Geological Society of 

 Vienna. 



Houghton, Rev. S. On the Reflexion of Polarized Light from Polished Sur- 

 faces, Transparent and Metallic. From the Author. 

 On the Tides of the Arctic Sea. From the Author. 



How, Prof. Contributions to the Mineralogy of Nova Scotia. From the 

 Author. 



Jan, Prof, et Fred. Sordelli. Iuonographie generate des Ophidiens. 32me 

 35me Livrs. From the Wilson Fund. 



Jones, Dr. Jos. First Report of the Cotton Planters' Convention of Georgia. 

 Augusta, 1860. From Dr. Leidy. 



Jones, J. Matthew. Contributions to the Natural History of Nova Scotia. 

 Insecta Coleoptera Part I. From the Author. 



Kraatz, Dr. G. Verzeichniss der Kafer Deutschlands. Berlin, 18G9. From 

 the Author. 



Kiister, H. C. Systematische Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und Chemnitz. 

 9 Band, Heft VIII; 10 Band, Hefts V, VI and VII ; 11 Baud, Heft IX. 

 From the Wilson Fund. 



Lea, Isaac. A Synopsis of the Family of Unionidte. 4th Ed. Philad., 1870. 

 From the Author. 

 Notes on Microscopic Crystals included in some Minerals. From the 

 Author. 



Linder, M. Note sur les variations seculaires du Magnetisme terrestre. From 

 the Author. 

 Du nombre des Freins qu'il couvient d'introduire dans les trains de Che- 

 min du Fer. Bordeaux, 1870. From the Author. 



Lischke, C. E. Nov. Conch. Supplement IV. Japanische Meeres-Conchy- 

 lien. 58 Lief. 1869. From the Wilson Fund. 



Lockyer, Norman. On Recent Discoveries in Solar Physics made by means of 

 the Spectroscope. Notice of an observation of the spectrum of a solar 

 prominence. Note on Mr. Huggins' paper, "On a possible method of 

 viewing the red flames without an eclipse." Spectroscopic Observa- 

 tions of the Sun. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4. From the Author. 

 Spectroscopic Observation of the Sun. Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Reply to 



some remarks of Father Secchi on the recent Solar Discoveries. 

 Researches on Gaseous Spectra in relation to the Physical Constitutiou 

 of the Sun, Stars, and Nebulse. Third Note. Preliminary Note on re- 

 searches on Gaseous Spectra. From the Authors. 



Lowe, E. J. Natural Phenomena and Chronology of the Seasons. London, 

 1870. From the Author. 



Marsh, O. C. Notice of some new Mosasauroid Reptiles from the green sand 

 of New Jersey. From the Author. 



Description of a new species of Protichuites, from the Potsdam Sandstone of 

 New York. From the Author. 



Mayer, Charles. Catalogue Systematique et descriptif des Fossiles des Ter- 

 rains Tertiares qui retrouvant au Muse"e federal de Zurich. 4me Cahier. 

 Mollusques Purchased. 



Meigs, J. A. Valedictory Address to the graduating class of the Jefferson 

 Medical College, 1870. From the Author. 



Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. 8vo. Vol. VI, Part 3. 4to Series 

 5, Parts 5-10, Pages 205 et seq. From the Survey. 



Milne-Edward H. Legons sur la Physiologie. Tome 9me, 2me Partie. Pans, 

 1870. From the Wilson Fund. 



Mohn, H. Temperature de la Mcr l'Islande, L'Ecosu et la .Norvege, 18.0. 

 From the Author. 




174 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Mueller, Dr. C. Walpers. Annales Botanices Systematica;. Tonii Septimi 



Fasc. IV. Lipsise, 1869. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Nelson, Dr. E. Thompson. The Molluscan Fauna of the later tertiary of Peru. 



From the Author. 

 Newberry, J. S. The Geological Survey of Ohio, its Frogress in 1869. From 



the Author. 

 Nineteen quarto pamphlets of Norwegian Official Statistics. Christiania, 1869. 



From the Government. 

 Packard, A. S. Guide to the Study of Insects. Salem, 1869. From Jos. 



Jeanes. 

 Palreontological Society's Publications. Vol. XXIII. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Palasontologie Frangaise. Terrain Cretace. Liv. 25. Terrain Jurassique. 



Livr. 19. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Parry, 0. C. The Rocky Mountain Alpine Region. From the Author. 

 Pfeiffer, Dr. L. Novitates Conchologicse. 1 Abth. Land Couchylien. 36er 



Lief. From the Wilson Fnnd. 

 Photographs of Carcharodon megalodon tooth and vertebra. From Col. Jas. 



Greer. 

 Pihl, 0. A. L. Micrometric Examination of Stellar Cluster in Perseus. 



Christiania, 1869. From the Author. 

 Prestel, Dr. M. A. F. Das Gesetz der Winde abgeleitet aus dem Auftreten 



derselben liber Nordwest Europa. Emden, 1869. From the Author. 

 Rapport sur la Maladie Nouvelle de la Vigne. Bordeaux, 1870. From the 



Linnean Soc. of Bordeaux. 

 R. Comitato Geologico d'ltalia. Bollettino Nos. 1 8. Anno, 1870. From 



the Survey. 

 Records of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. 1, Parts 1, 2 and 3, 1868. 



Vol. 2, Part 1, 1869. From' the Survey. 

 Redfield, J. H. Catalogue of the known Species, recent and fossil, of the 



Family Marginellidaa. From the Author. 

 Reeve, L. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 282, 283. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Regnault, M. V Relation des experiences pour determiner les lois et les don- 



nees physiques n^cessaires au calcul des machines a Feu. Tome 3me. 



Paris, 1870. From the Author. 

 Reports of the Commissioners of Fisheries of the State of Maine for the years 



1867 1869. Prom Chas. G. Atkins. 

 Report of the Secretary of the Treasurer on the State of the Finances for the 



year 1869. From the Treasury Department. 

 Reichenbach, H. G. Xenia Orchidacea. 2er Band. 7es Heft., 1870. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Revised rules of Zoological Nomenclature adopted by the British Association 



in 1865. From Prof. Marsh. 

 Richard, M. Oeuvres completes de Buffon, suivies de la classification com- 

 pared de Cuvier, Lesson, &c." Nouvelle Edition. 5 Vols. Paris, 1837. 



Complements de Buffon par P. Lesson. 2 Vols. Paris, 1838. From 



Mr. Elias Durand. 

 Romer, Dr. Edw. Nov. Conch. Supplement III. Monographic der Mollusk- 



gattung Venus, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 Lief. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Ross, A. M. Catalogue of Canadian Birds, Insects and Squirrels collected in 



the vicinity of Toronto. From the Author. 

 Schmidt, Dr. H. D Microscopical Anatomy of the Human Liver. From the 



Author. 

 Sclater, P. L. and Osbert Salvin. Exotic Ornithology. Part XIII. London, 



1869. Purchased. 

 Senoner, Dr. A. Notes Malacologiques. From the Author. 

 Sese, S. A. Le glacier de Boium en Juillet, 1868. From the Author. 

 Smith, A. H. Oxygeu Gas as a remedy in disease. New York, 1870. From 



the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. L75 



Squier, E. G. The Primeval Monuments of Peru compared with those in other 



parts of the World. From the Author. 

 Stainton, H. T. The Natural History of Tineina. Vols. X and XI. From the 



Wilson Fund. 

 Stevens, E. T. Flint Chips. A guide to Pre-Historic Archaeology. London, 



1870. From the Trustees of the Blackmore Museum. 

 Supplement to the Catalogue of Books in the Mercantile Library of the Citj of 



New York, 1869. From the Librarian. 

 Suringar, W. F. R. Algae Japonic* Musei Botanici Lugduno-Batavi. Har- 



lemi, 1870. From the Hollandische Academy. 

 Synnestvedt, A. S. D. En Anatomisk Beskrivelse af de Paa over-og I'nder- 



extremiteterne forekommende Bursse Mucosee, 1809. From the Author. 

 Toner, J. M. Anniversary Oration delivered before the Medical Society of 



the District of Columbia, Sept. 26, 1866. From the Author. 

 Trutat et Cartailhac. Materiaux pour 1'IIistorie primitive et naturelle de 



l'Homme. 5me Series. Nos. 9, 10, 11 and 12. Purchased. 

 Yacani, Barone C. Delia Luguna di Venezia. Firenze, 1867. From the Author. 

 Van Bcneden, M. et Paul Gervais. Osteographie des Ceiaces vivants et fossiles. 



Texte and Atlas. Livrs. 6, 7 and 8. Purchased. 

 Villa, A. et Jo. Babt. Coleopterorum diagnoses observa'.ionesque repetitn- in 



Catalogo dupletorum et supplementis extantes novis aunotationibus 



aucta a fratribus A. et Jo. Babt. Villa. Mediolani, 1868. From the 



Author. 

 Von der Decken, Baron Carl Claus. Reisen in Ost-Afrika. 3er Band, wissen- 



schaftliche Ergebnisse. lste Abth, 1869. Purchased. 

 Wallace, A. R. Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection. A Series 



of Essays. London, 1870. Purchased. 

 Wallis, Severn Teackle. Discourse on the Life and Character of George 



Peabody. From the Author. 

 Wechuiakof, T. Introduction aux recherches sur l'Economie des Travaux 



Scientifiques et Esthetiques, 1870. From the Author. 

 Wells, Walter. The Water-Power of Maine. Augusta, 1869. From the Author. 

 Zittel, K. A. Palaeontographica Supplement. Die Fauna der aeltern Cepha- 



lopoden Tuehrenden Tithonbildungen. lste, 2e Abth. and Atlas. Cas- 



sel, 1870. From the Wilson Fund. 




176 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Abastor 121 



Abies 91 



Acacia 137 



Acridium 78 



Aelurodon 66 



Agriochoerus 67, 112 



Ainpelopsis 103, 136 



Anabrus 74 



Auomodon 13 



ADchitherium 109, 112 



Ancylus 57 



Anemone 115 



Anguillula 69 



Anser 130 



Apogon 119 



Aquila 141 



Aralia 107 



Archibuteo 141 



Ardea 88 



Asaphus 53 



Asteracantbus 13 



Astragalus 137 



Asturina 342 



Astyanax 92 



Auchenia 126 



Aviculopecten 39 



Baena 123 



Balistes 120 



Baptemys 5 



Baptosaurus 3 



Barycrinus 23 



Bison 13, 69 



Boopedon S3 



Bootheriuin 97 



Botrychium 91 



Bracbypeplus 79 



Branta 131 



Britnosaurus 10 



Bubutus 88 



Caloptenus 78 



Canis 109 



Carbonarca 39 



Carinifex 59 



Centbopbilus 77 



CeDtrouiochlus 95 



Centropristis 120 



Cepbalobus 69 



Ceratopbyllum 90 



Cetopsis 95 



Cbaetetes 35 



Cbalicotherium 113 



Ohelydra 123 



Chenolopex 130 



Cbionoecetes 106 



Chloetropus 131 



Cbcepbaga 131 



Chonetes 35 



Cimoliasaurus 21 



Clematis 135 



Clidastes 3 



Clinopistha 43 



Codonites 31 



Conocorypbe 63 



Convolvulus 128 



Cordylophora 113 



Cosoryx 67 



Cotburnia 100 



Craxirex 142 



Crocodilus 100, 122 



Cryptoceras 48 



Cryptocerus ... 48 



Cyanea 90 



Cyatbocrinites 24 



Cyperus 137 



Dendrocygna 130 



Dentalium 45 



Dermatemys 4, 124 



Dicotyles 11 



Disco^aurus 10, 19 



Ditbyrocaris 55 



Drejera 137 



Dromaiherium 9 




INDEX TO QENEB \. 



177 



Edestus 13 



Elanns 144 



Elaps 121 



Elasmosaurus 9, 18, 132 



Eleoeharis 137 



Elotherium 3 



Elephas 69, 96 



Emys 5, 123 



Eucrinus 18 



Ephippitytha 76 



Equus 67, 69, 98, 127 



Euornphalus 61 



Eupachycrinus 30 



Euphorbia 14, 118 



Fabricia 101 



Falco 139, 145 



Fenestella 16 



Fragaria 71 



Glareola 85 



Glyphidodon 119 



Gobiesox 121 



Graphiodon 122 



Grus 6 



Grystes 110 



Gymuocladus 102 



Hadrosaurus 2, 67 



Haliaeetus 143 



Halisaurus 3 



Hedera 108 



Hemirhamphus 119, 121 



Hipparion 109 



Hippidiou 127 



Hirudo 89 



Hottenia 127 



Homocrinus 30 



Hoopesia 137 



Huenia 107 



Hydra 72, 100 



Hydrolycus 93 



Hyopotainus 113 



Hyporthodus 119 



Kypotriorchis 146 



Hyracodon 65 



Ictinia 144 



IlUenus 54 



Juncus 137 



Laormis " 



Leiodon 2, 4 



Lemna 90 



Leptomeryx 112 



Libinia 1 4 



Limnias 72, 100 



Liodon I 32 



Liriodendron l](j 



Litu rites 51 



Lonicera 102 



Lophiodon 109 



Lophiotberium l^t; 



Madura 132 



Macrodou 40 



Macrosaurus 2, 4 



Magnolia Hi 



Mana.vunkia 100, 102 



Mastodon 67, 96 



Mfgalaima 88 



Megalomeryx 2 



Megalonyx 13 



Megalosaurus 3 



Melania 58 



Meleagris 11 



Melicerta 72 



Merops 88 



Merychippus 67 



Meryeochoerus 109, 111 



Merycodus 109 



Merychyus 109 



Microsus 113 



Modiolopsis 41 



Monotis 38 



Morus 137 



Mosasaurus 2, 132 



Mylocvprinus 70 



Mylodon 8 



Nauclerus 144 



Nautilus 47 



Nephelis 89 



Notharctus 114 



Nothosaurops 74 



Nothosaurus 74 



Nyctale 73 



Oedipoda 79 



Olenus 64 



Oligoporus 34 



Oncobatis 70 



Onychotes 142, 149 



Ophibolus 90 



Opomola 77 



Orchelinium 77 



Oreodon 67, 109, 111 



Oressocben 131 



Ortygometra 86 



Ovibos 73 



Oxyrrhopus 90 



Palseosyops 113 



Palseotringa > 



Palseotherium 113 



Paludicella H'O 



Palamedea 87 




178 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Pandion 143 



Farad oxides 62 



Patriofelis 11 



Pectinatella 90 



Pedioellina 101 



Pentreuiites 31 



Petunia 90 



Pezotettix 78 



Pheroneuia 127 



Philacte 131 



Phillipsia 52 



Phytolacca 102 



Pinus 72 



Platecarpus 132 



Platygonu3 13 



Plesiosaurus 9, 19 



Pleurophorus 18 



Plumatella 100 



Poicilopleuron 3 



Poly bonis 145 



Polycotylus 132 



Polypora 16 



Poteriocrinites 26 



Priacanthus 119, 121 



Priotelus 88 



Procellaria 85 



Procyon 13 



Prornicropterus 119 



Protohippus 67, 127 



Psilopogon 88 



Pterocles 86 



Ptychodus 12 



Puffiuus 6 



Pygocentrus 93 



Rzeboides 92 



Receptaculites 22 



Reduvius 110 



Rhamdia 94 



Rhamphastos 88 



Rhinoceros 2, 65 



Rostrhamus 144 



Rubus 128 



Rumex 71 



Saccosoma 25 



Sactosomopsis 25 



Sagittaria 89 



Salix 128 



Salvia 90 



Saniwa 124 



Sarothrodus 119 



Scaphiocrinus 27 



Schizodus 18, 41 



Sciades 95 



Scirpus 89 



Selene 119 



Septopora 15 



Silpliium 117 



Sivatherium 1 



Solanum 102 



Solenochilus 47 



Sorubimichthys 94 



Spargauiuni 89 



Sph;c riura 56 



Spirifer 36, 60 



Spongilla 100 



Staphylea 115 



Stauronotus 82 



Staurotypus 4 



Stentflr". 90 



Straparollus 45 



Stricklandinia 37 



Stylemys 67 



Subulites 47 



Syncladia 15 



Tienidiestes 132 



Telmatornis 5 



Temnochilus 49 



Tetragonopterinse 92 



Tetraodon 120 



Thalassidroma. 85 



Thamnotrizon 76 



Thespesius 67 



Tinnunculus 148 



Titanotherium 2, 113 



Tonionotus 82 



Trionyx 5 



Trogon., 88 



Triticum 125 



Tracbodon 67 



Traxinus 115 



Trigonocephaly 90 



Turacus 88 



Udeopsylla 77 



Urnatella 100 



Vitis 136 



Volvox 90 



Vomer 119 



Wolffia 90 



Xiphactinus..., 12 



Yucca 14 



Zanthoxylum 136 



Zeacrinus 18, 27 



Zizauia 89 




(iKXKH.W. r\I)KX. 



17!) 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Amendment of the By-laws, 14. 



Bannister, A sketch of the classifica- 

 tion of the American Anserina?, 130. 



Buckley, S. B., Remarks on Dr. Asa 

 Gray's notes on Buckley's 



Plants of Texas, 133, 135. 



rare 



Coombs, Gilbert, Resignation as mem- 

 ber, 71. 



Cope, E. D., Remarks on a specimen 

 of Trigonocephaly, 90; Observa- 

 tions on some Fishes new to the 

 American Fauna, found at Newport, 

 R. I., 118; Remarks on fossil rep- 

 tiles from the cretaceous of Kansas, 

 132. 



Correspondence, 159. 



Donations to Library, 162. 



Elections during 1870, 158. 



Gill, Theo., On some new species of 

 Fishes obtained by Prof. Orton from 

 the Maranon River, Upper Amazon 

 and Napo Rivers, 91, 92. 



Hallowell, Caleb S., Announcement of 

 death of, 8. 



Leeds, Prof., Exhibition of crystalline 

 Staffelite, 122 ; On an interesting 

 geological phenomenon, 134. 



Leidy, Jos., Remarks on Megacerops 

 Coloradensis, 1 ; Remarks on Poi- 

 cilopleuron valens and other fossils, 

 3; On the humerus of a sloth re- 

 sembling Mylodon robustus and on 

 Dromotherium silvestre, 8 ; On rep- 

 tilian remains from the cretaceous 

 formation near Fort Wallace, Kan- 

 sas, 9 ; On specimens of vertebral 

 bodies from the New Jersey green 

 sand, 10 ; On a fossil mandible from 

 near Fort Bridger, Wyoming, 10; 

 On Ichthyodorulites, 12; On fossil 

 remains from Illinois, 13 ; On Dis- 

 -cosaurus and its Allies, 18; On the 

 internal organs of generation of a 



Hog, G5; On fossil bones from Da- 

 kota ami Nebraska, 65 ; On fossil 

 remains from blah,., Utah and Ore- 

 gon, 67 ; On Hadrosaurus ami its 

 Allies, 67; On Anguillulid*, - 

 On fossils from the vicinity of Bur- 

 lington, Kansas, and from the 

 Rocky Mts., 69; On the relations of 

 European and American Fauna, 72 ; 

 On a jaw fragment of Ovibos cavi- 

 frons, 73 ; On Nothosaurops occidu- 

 us, 74; On Leeches, 89 ; On Masto- 

 don remains, 96; On fossil remains 

 in the Museum of Amherst Colli 

 98; On Crocodilus Elliotti, 100; On 

 ciliated Polyps, 100; On fossils 

 from Sweet Water River, Wyoming 

 Ter., 109 ; On fossils from 'Bridge 

 Creek, Oregon, 111; On Cordy- 

 lophora, 113; On fossils from 

 Church Buttes, Wyoming Ter., 113; 

 On Graphiodon vinearius, 122 ; On 

 fossil remains of reptiles, 122, 123 ; 

 On fossilsfound under Table Moun- 

 tain, Cal., 125; Exhibition of the 

 lower jaw of an aged man, and a 

 wood carving from St. Paul de 

 Loando, 133; On the reversed vis- 

 cera of a human subject, 134. 



Marsh, Prof. O. C, Remarks on fossil 

 vertebrae from the cretaceous green 

 sand near Barnesboro, N. J., 2 ; On 

 fossil birds from the cretaceous and 

 tertiary of the United States. 5; On 

 Meleagris altus, 11 ; On Dicotyles 

 antiquus, 11. 



Meek, F. B., Description of fossils col- 

 lected during the V. S. Geological 

 Survey under the charge of Clar- 

 ence King, 12, 56. 



Meek, F. B. and A. H. Wort hen. Note 

 on the relations of Syncladia, King 

 (1849) to the proposed genus of 

 Septopora, Prout (18:;8), 8, 15; 

 Description of new species and 

 genera of fossils from the. Palaeozoic 

 rocks of the Western States, 8, 22. 



Median, T., Cross fertilization and 

 law of sex in Euphorbia, 11, 11; 




180 



ERRATA. 



On the formation of bark and wood, 

 13 ; On the Stipules of Magnolia and 

 Liriodendron, 71,114; On Rumex 

 oblongifolius, 71 ; On Fertilization 

 of plants, 90; On Fasciations, 91 ; 

 On the flowers of Aralia spinosa 

 and Hedera helix, 99, 107 ; On 

 Phyllotaxis, 102 ; On a singular 

 habit in Reduvius novenarius, Say, 

 110; Notes on Silphium lancinia- 

 tum, L. 117; On the exercise of 

 direct force by plants, 125; Bud 

 Varieties, 128 ; On Madura auran- 

 tiaca, 132. 



Norris, Thaddeus, Remarks on fish 

 culture, 110. 



Officers for 1871, 157. 



Rand, Theo, D., On a remarkable ex- 

 posure of rocks, 134. 



Redfield, Remarks or Botrychium 

 lunarioides and B. lanceolatum, 91. 



Ridgway, Robt., A new classification 

 of the North American Falconidae, 

 134, 138. 



Report of the Librarian, 150. 

 Report of the Curators, 151. 

 Report of the Botanical Committee, 



152. 

 Report of Recording Secretary, 153. 

 Report of Biological Section, 153. 

 Reports of the Conchological Section, 



154. 



Standing Committees for 1870. 



Streets, T. Hale, Remarks on Huxley's 

 classification of Birds, 71, 84; On 

 the cranium of an Owl, 73 : Notice 

 of some Crustaceans of the genus 

 Libinia with descriptions of three 

 new species, 96, 104. 



Thomas, Cyrus, Description of new 

 species of Grasshoppers from Colo- 

 rado, 66, 74. 



Wharton, Jos., Remarks on Nickel ore 



at Gap, Lancaster Co., Pa. 

 Willard, Prof., Remarks on a deposit 



of Clay, 122. 

 Wilstach, Wm. P., Announcement of 



death of, and resolutions in regard 



to, 103. 



ERRATA 



Page 25, fourteenth line from bottom, for " subrachial," read subbrachial. 

 " 31, fifteenth line from bottom, for " basas," read basal; and sixteenth 



line from bottom, for '' basasal," read basal. 

 " 38, tenth line from bottom, insert it before " my ; " and twenty-fifth line 

 from bottom, for " this," read their. 



45, twenty-first line from bottom, insert section after "Illinois." 



46, fourteenth line from bottom, for "Jour.," read Iowa. 

 51, sixteenth line from bottom, for "isolated," read involuted. 

 56, twelfth and eighteenth lines from top, for " Clerence," read Clarence ; 



and thirty-sixth line, for " is," read are. 



59, second and twentieth lines from bottom, for " Vortifex," read Vor- 

 ticifex. 



60, erase the parenthetic marks in the fifteenth line from top. 

 74, twenty-fourth line from bottom, for "principle," read principal. 

 80, after " (E. pruinosa, nov. sp.," insert = Gr. trifasciatus, (Say). 



" 83, after " B. nigrum, nor. sp.," insert = Gr. nubilus, (Say). 



" 130, for " B. H. Bannister," read H. M. Bannister; on twelfth line of 



article, for "recurved," read decurved, 

 " 131, " Scopoli " should be in small type, except the initial letter, so as to 



read as the authority for the generic name ; on the last line, for 



"Lewast," read (Sewast). In the first line of the note at foot of 



page, for " Bran/e," read Branta. 

 The authorities for all the specific names, except those for Anser 



hyperboreus, A. rossii, and A. gambelli, should be in brackets. 



it 



I! 

 li 

 (I 



11 

 11 

 11 




BIOLOGICAL AND MI0K0S00PICAL DEPARTMENT 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. 



Jan. Bd, 1870. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



Dr. McQuillen exhibited the skull of a hedge-hog, in which, owing to 

 fracture of the left lower incisor, the superior incisor of that side, failing to 

 meet with its antagonist, had formed a complete circle, the apex of the 

 tooth penetrating the right upper maxilla just in front of the molars. The 

 right upper incisor also had been fractured, and the inferior incisor of thai 

 side had grown to more than twice the usual length, and assumed the form 

 of a tusk. The skull of a squirrel was also shown, in which, owing to a 

 similar accident, the superior incisors had formed a complete circle and 

 penetrated the upper maxilla. 



Jan. 17th. 

 Director S, W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



Dr. McQuillen exhibited the pulp of a lower molar, with the vessels natu- 

 rally injected. The principal points of interest connected with the specimen 

 were the dentinal fibrili, which were quite evident under the microscope, 

 projecting from a fragment of dentine. In commenting on the specimen, the 

 speaker stated that these fibrili, which are located in the dentinal tubuli, were 

 first observed some eight or ten years ago in the human teeth by John Tomes, 

 F.R.S., of London, who regards them as the continuation of the nerves of the 

 dental pulp, and accounts for the exquisite sensibility of tiie dentine in exca- 

 vating decay from the cavity of a tooth, by impressions made upon these fila- 

 ments. The speaker would not pretend to assert that this was an untenable 

 position, but he inclined to the opinion that the dentinal fibrili are to be re- 

 garded as post mortem results occurring after the extraction of a tooth, and 

 due to the coagulation of the fibrine of the liquor sanguinis circulating in the 

 dentinal tubuli during life. In the removal of pulps from the teeth when de- 

 vitalized by arsenical application, or breaking up a tooth alter extraction, he 

 had found no difficulty in separating the pulp from the dentine, which would 

 hardly be possible if the nerve fibres passed into the millions of tubuli in the 

 dentine, or under such circumstances an attachment would be tunned ex- 

 ceedingly difficult of separation. 



A large plaster model of an incisor tooth, with a vertical section Bhowing 

 the arrangement of the enamel, cementum, dentine, pulp cavity and pulp, un- 

 used in illustration of the remarks. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



Feb. 1th. 



Vice-Director W. Pepper, M.D., in the Chair. 



Fourteen members present. 



Mr. W. H. Walmsley exhibited mounted sections of a testicle 

 removed from a so-called hermaphrodite, who otherwise presented 

 the external configuration of a woman, and who was looked upon 

 in society as a female. The testicle exhibited tubular structure, 

 and was removed at the patient's request. 



Mr. T. W. Starr exhibited a slide showing malformation in a 

 spider, which had eight legs and nine feet. 



Feb. 24th. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Eleven members present. 



March 1th. 

 Vice-Director W. Pepper, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Six members present. 



Dr. McQuillen stated that during certain experiments with the hydrate of 

 chloral, he had reason to doubt the correctness of the view of Leibrech and 

 B. W. Richardson, that it was decomposed in the blood and converted into 

 chloroform. 



March 21st. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



Dr. Tyson read a paper on Class or Clinical Microscopes (see Den- 

 tal Times for April, 1870). 



Dr. Keen had had considerable experience with class-microscopes, and 

 had used them with much satisfaction, even with higher powers than those 

 named by Dr. Tyson. He had shown to his class the amoeboid movements of 

 the white blood corpuscle. He was disposed to look more hopefully than Dr. 

 Tyson upon the results to be derived from the use of the gas-microscope in 

 medical teaching. 



Dr. McQuillen had also used the class microscope largely i teaching, and 

 with satisfaction. He was disposed to think with Dr. Tyson, that the gas-mi- 

 croscope could never be substituted with advantage for the class-microscope 

 in demonstrative teaching, but simply became a further aid, assuming the re- 

 lation of the enlarged diagram, and this not always with satisfaction. 



Mr. Walmsley exhibited a four-inch lens made by Tolles, which 

 possessed a working distance of but two inches. 



He also showed some brilliant fresh-water algre, which had been 

 mounted for a year in carbolic acid water, still retaining their color 

 completely. 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 3 



April 4th. 



Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eleven members present. 



The Corresponding Secretary reported the presentation of a copy 

 of Lieut.-Col. J. J. Woodward's Report on the Magnesium and 

 Electric Lights as applied to Photo-Micrography ; illustrated by a 

 number of large photographs. 



Dr. S. "W. Mitchell exhibited a slide showing the ova of Bit- 

 harzia hcematobia, believed to cause the intermittent Hcematuria of 

 the Cape of Good Hope and Natal, the specimen having been for- 

 warded to him by his friend Dr. Harley, of London ; and made 

 some remarks upon the parasite. 



Dr. James Tyson resigned the position of Recorder, and Dr. J. G. 

 Richardson was elected to the vacancy. 



April 18th. 



J. Gibbons Hunt, M.D., in the Chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



Dr. Wm. F. Norris made a verbal communication in regard to 

 the use of weak solution of nitrate of silver and chloride of gold in 

 the preparation of tissues for microscopic examination, which he 

 illustrated by numerous mounted specimens, &c. 



Dr. Hunt inquired what strength of the solution of the nitrate of silver 

 was employed. 



Dr. Norris replied that his ordinary solution was one-half of one percent., 

 and in answer to a question from Dr. Truman, stated that the chloride of gold 

 liquid was of the same strength. Several members having mentioned that 

 they met with nothing but failures in attempting to employ these processes, 

 Dr. Norris remarked that he was at a loss to account for this want ef success, 

 and believed that if the half per cent, solutions were used in a dark room, 

 and the specimens allowed to soak in glycerine slightly acidulated with 

 acetic acid, afterwards exposing them to the light until sufficiently colored, no 

 difficulty would be experienced. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt exhibited some mounted slides of Saxafraga sarmmtosa. and 

 observed that in regard to the stomata in plants the general rule is that they 

 are distributed all over the under surface of the leaves. We find exceptions 

 to this law, however, in some species of Saxafraga, and in S. sarmentosa tin' 

 stomata are grouped in clusters only, and are not found in the cells between 

 the clusters. In other species of the genus the same peculiarity occurs, but 

 this arrangement of the stomata cannot be regarded as a generic feature, be- 

 cause some of the Saxafrages have these organs distributed all over the under 

 surfaces of their leaves. 



Dr. Hunt further remarked that the singular amoeboid movement so often 

 noticed iii the white blood corpuscle seems to be a phenomenon not confined 

 to the animal kingdom. A movement apparently similar may be distinctly 

 observed in the nucleus of the cell of Anacharis alsinattrum, and in the plant 

 the movement appears to be more active than that seen in the blood. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



May 2d. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, -M.D., in the Chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



May 16///. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt exhibited a species of the frondose Hepatjcse, the 

 Grimaldia barbifrons. Its sporangia are borne on the ends of pedicels, and they 

 contain spores and elaters of great beauty. The stomata in the heads of a 

 plant open into chimney-like canals built up of cells, and these canals dip 

 down into the tissues of the plant. This family of cryptogams offers to the 

 microscopist many objects of beauty, as well as of physiological interest, when 

 properly studied. 



June Qtli. 



Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



Prof. J. H. McQuillex, Corresponding Secretary, read a com- 

 munication from the American Microscopical Society of New York 

 City, requesting an interchange of specimens, and of published 

 transactions as far as possible. 



June 21st. 

 Director S. "W. Mitchell, M.D., in the Chair. 



Ten members present. 



A letter was read by the Secretary from Prof. Joseph Henry, of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, submitting a specimen of 

 the Myiarehus tinerascens with a remarkable fungous growth upon 

 its feet, and requesting the opinion of the Department as to the 

 nature of this abnormal formation, to investigate which Drs. Rich- 

 ardson, Allen, and "Wood were appointed a committee. 



In the subsequent session for private business, it was resolved, in 

 accordance with resolutions offered in the report of a Committee on 

 Modification of the By-Laws, R. S. Kenderdine, M.D., Chairman, 

 and adopted after discussion, somewhat amended : 



1st. That the second meeting in each month be purely conversational, with- 

 out order of business. 



2c?. That the Director appoint a committee of five, who shall canvass and 

 arrange the members, so as to bring to the Section at least three instruments 

 at each conversational meeting, in addition to those belonging to the Section, 

 with a few objects of interest for each microscope. They shall also canvass 

 the members, and endeavor to have some subject presented at eacli meeting, 

 in a short paper, relating to the construction or working of the instrument, or 

 its use in scientific stud v. 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. f> 



3d. That the Janitor be requested to place the microscopes of the Section 

 on the table at every meeting. 



4th. That arrangements be made with the new Medical Journal to publish a 

 synopsis of the proceedings, and, if possible, to announce the subject for dis- 

 cussion before the meetings. 



The following paper was ordered to be published : 



Is Atropia an antidote to Hydrocyanic Acid ! 

 BY DR. W. W\ KEEN. 



Having been recently called upon, as a member of a committee of the 

 Pathological Society, to investigate the blood of Geo. S. Twitchell. Jr. the 

 murderer (who poisoued himself by prussic acid), my attention was called to 

 the lately asserted antidotal powers of atropia, and I made a number of ex- 

 periments on the subject, the result of which 1 now report to the Department. 



In the Glasgow Med. Jour., Nov., 1808, p. 70 et seq., will be found an ex- 

 tended analysis of Preyer's recent work on prussic acid (Die Blausaiire, Bonn 

 1808), which I must quote as authority, as I had not access to the original 

 work. The questions as to action of the poison on the spectrum analysis of the 

 blood, ou its coagulation, on the heart, &c, are foreign to my present purpose 

 and will be found discussed both in the paper just alluded to and in our re- 

 port to the Pathological Society. (Amer. Jour. Med. Sci. vol. 58, p. 432. i 



Preyer's conclusions, from numerous experiments, are that HCy kills by 

 suffocation induced by three means : 



1, it stimulates or tetanizes the pulmonary branches of the vagus, so that 

 the respiration ceases. 



2, it stimulates or tetanizes the cardiac branches of the vagus (and also the 

 sympathetic ganglia of the heart in some cases), and thus arrests the circula- 

 tion. 



3, it acts on the respiratory nervous centre, so that the breathing on beino- 

 re-established is retarded more and more, till death follows. 



Atropia, he states, has precisely an antagonistic action, and therefore 

 should be and is an antidote. That atropia does have such an aciion as he 

 has asserted on the circulation, is the conclusion to which Drs. Mitchell, 

 Morehouse and myself came in studying the antagonism of opium and bella- 

 donna, and published in the Amer. Jour. Med. Sci., July, 1865; but that it 

 affects the respiration is contrary to our experiments at that time, and that it 

 aets as an antidote to prussic acid my present experiments, so far as they go, 

 certainly disprove. 



Preyer states that if the 0-015 of a grain i. e., one millegramme of sulphate 

 of atropia be injected under the skin of a rabbit, a lethal dose of HCy may be 

 given without producing death ; or if the HCy be first administered, tint then 

 the atropia will arrest its poisonous action if it is given quickly enough. 



Exp. I. May 12, 1869. Injected 0-017 gr. of sulph. atropia under the skin of 

 the back of a rabbit, followed in half a minute by 3 fl1 of officinal dilute hy- 

 drocyanic acid. 



In U minutes after the last injection he fell over convulsed; opisthotonos. 



In 2| minutes pupils began to contract. 



In bk minutes respiration had ceased ; heart still beating. 



In 6J- minutes, dead. 



On the post mortem examination, made immediately, the heart was found to 

 present the slight rythmical twitching usually noticed in the right auricle 

 after poisoning by HCy, but here observed in the walls of all the cavities save 

 the right ventricle. 



Exp. II. Injected as before under the skin of a rabbit gr. 0-010 atrop. sulph., 

 followed in half a minute by 2 TT1 HCy. 



In 2J minutes respiration arrested. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



In 3^ minutes re-established, 16 in the minute ; spasms; cry; heart beating. 

 In 4\ minutes, respiration ceased. 

 In 5f minutes, pupils contracting. 

 In 1\ minutes, heart ceased ; dead. 

 Heart twitching as in Exp. I. 



Exp. III. Injected as before 0-015 gr. atrop. sulph., followed in half a 

 minute by 2 minims HCy. 



In g minute, respiration rapid. 



In 1 minute, pupil contracting. 



In 1J minute, opisthotonos very severe. 



In 2 minutes, respiration 32, and labored. 



In 3 minutes, respiration stopped. 



In 5 minutes, dead. 



Es.p. IV. Injected the HCy first, 3 minims. 

 In 1 \ minutes fell over in convulsions. 

 In 2 minutes gave 0-015 gr. atrop. sulph. 

 In 2h minutes, gasping very slowly. 

 In 3 Z minutes, dead. 



Besides these, I also performed four other experiments, in which larger 

 doses were used with the like result, as follows : 



Exp. V. Injected gr. 0-2 atrop. sulph., followed in half a minute by 10 

 minims HCy. Death in 4} minutes. 



Exp. VI. Injected gr. 0-2 atrop. sulph., and in half a minute 5 minims 

 HCy. Death in 4 minutes. 



Exp. VII. Injecled gr. 0-1 atrop. sulph., followed in half a minute by 2 

 minims HCy. Death in 6J minutes. 



Exp. VIII. Injected 0-063 gr. atrop. sulph., followed in half a minute by 

 1 minim HCy. Death in 10 minutes. 



That the rabbits did not die as the result of atropia poisoning, I take for 

 granted, inasmuch as very many experiments on all sides prove them to be 

 unaffected by belladonna in any form, as much as 2 grains of atropia not hav- 

 ing produced death. Their peculiar insusceptibility to atropia therefore 

 eliminates a difficulty often felt in similar experiments, viz., to test which of 

 the poisons killed. It may be objected, then, that as atropia does not act on 

 the rabbit, it cannot be expected to act as an antidote here. Preyer, however, 

 asserts that it does act as an antidote in the case of rabbits, and if proven 

 ' here, it must a fortiori hold good in other animals who are more susceptible 

 to its influence. But in order to test this question, I performed the following 

 experiments on dogs : 



Exp. IX. Injected gr. 1-10 atrop. sulph. under the skin of a small dog, fol- 

 lowed in half a minute by 10 minims HCy. In 2 minutes he fell over with 

 marked opisthotonos, slow and labored respiration, and was dead in 8 min- 

 utes. 



Exp. X. Injected 1-10 gr. atrop. sulph. under the skin of another dog of 

 the same size, followed in half a minute by 7 minims HCy. Fell over with 

 opisthotonos, as in the former experiment, in 3 minutes, and was dead in half 

 an hour. 



Exp. XI. Injected 1-10 gr. atrop. sulph. under the skin of a similar- sized 

 dog, followed in half a minute by 5 minims HCy. Death with the same symp- 

 toms in half an hour. 



Exp. XII. 2 3U P.M. Injected under skin of back of moderate-sized dog 1-20 

 gr. atropite sulphatis. 2.37 2 . No effect appearing, injected 1-10 gr. atrop. sulph. 

 2.40. Pupils dilated. 2.41. Injected minims v acid, hydrocyau. dil. (U.S. P.) 



2.45. Seems uneasy ; licks his chaps constantly from the dryness of the mouth. 



2.46. Can scarcely stand. 2.47. Fell down ; howls; bladder emptied ; breath- 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 7 



ing laborious; opisthotonos. 2.4S. General convulsions. 2.50. Breathing 

 rapid and laborious. 3.40. Died. 



That the dogs did not die from the atropia is evident, especially by reference 

 to Dr. Harley's experiments (On the old Vegetable Neurotics, pp. 198202), 

 where as much as one-fourth of a grain was given without producing more 

 than slight poisonous action. 



I do not regard my experiments as sufficiently extended to be conclusive, 

 but as disproving a positive assertion they are of a certain importance. 



On favorable report of the Committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : 



Case of Hypospadias Male Hermaphrodism. 

 By Prof. Christopher Johnston, M.D., Baltimore. 



" It is with Hermaphrodisms," says Isidore Geof. St. Hilaire, " as with all 

 other anomalies : as we approach them the marvellous disappears ; but their 

 scientific interest increases, and all particular facts, bound together by the- 

 ory, explained by simple considerations, present themselves to the observer a3 

 the diverse but concordant consequences of a small number of principles 

 which govern the whole domain of teratology. 



"Thus it is, whether we examine the reproductive apparatus of a male 

 hermaphrodite, or consider the totality of his physical constitution, or study 

 him in a moral point of view, we reach the same conclusion, namely, an 

 analogy more or less apparent with the conditions of femininity, but at bot- 

 tom an essentially masculine organization as well as tastes and proclivities." 



These reflections serve very appropriately to introduce the short history of 

 a case of so-called male hermaphrodism, in which, at the age of nineteen 

 years, the subject of it, having been previously looked upon as a girl, was 

 suddenly transformed into a boy by the decision of experts. 



The case is as follows : X. Y., aged nineteen years, is of medium height, 

 fair complexion, blue eyes, brown hair, face feminine, voice puerile and beard 

 sprouting rather thickly for his age and slight figure. His general appear- 

 ance indicates health. It may be added that his gait and deportment are 

 decidedly girlish, for he drops his garments when stripping for examination ; 

 and he assures us that he assumed the position of the Venus accroupie when, 

 as in Father Tom's case, " vesica sua simul erat rumpere." 



He gives of himself the history we reproduce, and which is corroborated 

 by his mother and brother. 



At birth he was looked upon as a girl normally developed, wherefore the 

 age of seven years saw him still in frocks. At this period of his life he was 

 struck by a piece of falling timber upon the abdomen, and, his body under- 

 going investigation in consequence, a peculiarity in the conformation of his 

 outer genital parts was observed, but its nature was not ascertained nor, of 

 course, understood. As he was but slightly injured no connection was alleged be- 

 tween the accident and the abnormal development; and as no importance was 

 attached to his " peculiarity," he was recommitted to frocks and the matter 

 forgotten. He continued to be regarded as a girl, wore the attire of a female, 

 and associated very intimately with girls of the period. As a child he hail a 

 remarkably fine voice, a boy's soprano, and was accustomed to sing at public 

 concerts; but at the age of fourteen his voice suddenly changed in quality, 

 became piping, and lost much of its original compass. 



A few months ago as he tells us his beard began to grow, and this cir- 

 cumstance occasioned him great annoyance, by reason of the remark it excited. 

 Failing in his attempts to suppress the growth of hair upon his face, ami stung 

 by the ill-natured remarks its presence evoked, he lopped off his long braids, 

 assumed the habiliments of a man, and fled from his maternal roof. It would 

 also appear that this conclusion was assisted by the opinion of a medical 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



gentleman, to whom, suspecting his proper sex, he had had recourse in order 

 to satisfy his doubts as to his sexual status. 



Far from his home, chance now led him to our doer, and upon his request 

 we made a satisfactory examination. 



His framework is that of a male. The mammae are undeveloped, the thorax 

 and limbs quite hairy, and the pubis and genitals unusually hirsute. A me- 

 dian fissure separated two apparent labia, and, as hair conceals all else, the 

 impression is decidedly womanly ; nor is that impression altogether effaced 

 by drawing apart the labia, for the cleft extends deeply, seems to merge into 

 a small vagina, above which a mentus urinarius lies under the arch of the 

 pubis. But higher up a penis appears, one inch and three quarters in length, 

 by three-fourths in diameter, surrounded by an imperforate glans uncovered 

 by prepuce. A groove extends along the under surface of the penis, and runs 

 back to within one inch ef the anus, being about three inches in length. 

 This groove, lined by mucous membrane, is the roof of the urethra, which 

 deepens posteriorly, and is finally concealed by overhanging scrotal pouches. 

 Traction upon tbese shows its termination in a deeply imbedded meatus, 

 which lies about half an inch anteriorly to a blind fossa about the size of a 

 crow quill in capacity and half an inch in depth. The meatus and cul de sac 

 are comprised in an oval space about an inch in length, bounded laterally by 

 an elevated ridge of mucous membrane, and posteriorly limited by a four- 

 chette. 



The prepuce, dividing on the under surface of tbe penis, is continuous with 

 bands of mucous membrane, which simulate the labia minora of the female, 

 and are lost upon the inner sides of the scrota. The proximate surfaces of the 

 scrotal pouches have the character of mucous membrane, are red, vascular 

 and moist, and are traceable into the urethra and vaginoid cul de sac. 



A careful examination with the finger in the rectum and a catheter in the 

 bladder, recognizes no trace of uterus, and the blind fossa which simulates a 

 rudimentary vagina appears to be independent of all other parts but the mu- 

 cous membrane which forms its walls. The indications of the existence of a 

 prostate are uncertain. 



A small oval glandular body occupies each inguinal canal, has the form of 

 a testicle, but is softer to the touch. These bodies, lying just within the ex- 

 ternal abdominal ring, are the testicles, which have not descended beyond 

 that opening. 



The sexual feeling is as feebly developed as the external parts of generation 

 indeed it is somewhat doubtful if that feeling exist at all, as the statements 

 of X. Y. on this point are vague and unsatisfactory. He asserts that erection 

 of the penis sometimes takes place, accompanied with pain, but the organ 

 follows an unnatural bent downwards. 



We have evidently presented to us in this case an instance of arrest of 

 development dating from an early period of foetal life. The cleft is the origi- 

 nal sexual fissure ; the corpora cavernosa have united above, leaving the 

 shallow groove beneath ; tbe glans is imperforate, and the rest of the spongy 

 bod}' is wanting; and the bladder and rectum are partitioned off from the 

 great inferior or genito-urinary and intestinal cloaca, the fundus of which 

 puts on the appearance of a little vagina The sex of the individual is mani- 

 festly masculine ; but X. Y. must be regarded as a very imperfectly sketched 

 male, and as affected with hypospadias of a remarkably decided as well as 

 interesting character. 



September 5th. 

 Vice-Director, Wm. Pepper, M.D., in the Chair. 

 Eleven members present. 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. ( J 



October Sd, 1870. 



Director 8. W. Mitchell, M. I)., in the Chair. 



Thirteen members present. 



The report of the Committee upon the Myiarchm cinerascem was 

 presented, as follows : 



The Committee to which was referred the specimen of Myiarchm cineri 

 cms vel Mexicanus, with 'fungous growth of its feet,' forwarded for investiga- 

 tion from the Smithsonian Institution of Washington, report that, although 

 the great changes which have taken place in the abnormal formation bv 

 drying render it impossible to determine with certainty its nature during the 

 life of the bird, they have been able to recognize the following characteris- 

 tics : Examined with a hand magnifying glass, the adventitious struc 

 was found to be porous, and to present a cellular appearance closely resem- 

 bling that of a section of mammalian lung which had been inflated and dried. 

 A thin slice immersed in liquor potassa or glycerin and examined with a 

 power of 200 diameters, was seen to be composed of bands of material resem- 

 bling fibrous tissue, arranged so as to form alveoli, each about 1-1 50th of an 

 inch in diameter with a wall of l-600th of an inch in thickness. These alve- 

 oli frequently contained mycelial threads, apparently of some fungus of the 

 Leptothrix type, and occasionally portions of Acari, resembling the A. Sea- 

 bseii, with their ova and excrement. It seemed improbable that this patholo- 

 gical product was the result of the integument covering the legs and feet, and 

 bearing even a fanciful analogy to the Elephantiasis of human bi ii gs : first, 

 because a transverse section of one of the toes showed the black scaly skin 

 apparently unaltered beneath the fungous growth, which was readily peeled 

 off; second, because it covered the rather elongated claws of the bird with as 

 thick and firm a coating as that found upon the adjacent portion of the toes 

 supplied with its modified cuticle ; and thirdly, from the absence of epithelial 

 or other similar cells in the sections examined, even with a high power (1200 

 diam.) Any hypothesis of its being a malignant growth springing from the 

 connective tissue beneath the integument was likewise deemed untenable, 

 not only on account of the circumstances just enumerated, but also because 

 the disease was so symmetrically developed upon both lower extremities ; 

 and vour Committee was therefore, with some hesitation, led to assume that 

 the growth was really of a fungous nature, and perhaps bore some slight re- 

 semblance to those comparatively rare affections of our race, Favm and Tinea 

 tonsurans of the nails. The only fact which militated strongly against this 

 view was that, on burning a small fragment of the abnormal structure in the 

 flame of a spirit lamp, a decided animal odor was evolved, and a faint cloud 

 of ammonic-nitrate appeared when the smoking particle was brought in con- 

 tact with the vapor of nitric acid. Even this might be readily explained by 

 the existence in the mass of the various animal excretions with which such a 

 dense covering would probably be charged. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



(Signed) Jos. G. Richardson, 



Sept. 23d, 1870. Harrisox Allen. 



On motion, the report was accepted, the Committee discharged, 

 and the Corresponding Secretary directed to transmit the document 

 to the Smithsonian Institution. 



A communication was presented from Prof. Baird, of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, accompanied by a specimen of finely pulverized 

 material stated to have fallen in a dust shower over portions of 

 Vermont ; to examine which Drs. J. G. Hunt and William Corbit 

 were appointed. 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



Sundry photographs, specimens of skin and some animal organ- 

 isms, dredged from the harbor of Newport, R. I., received from Mr. 

 Powell for distribution among the members, was presented. 



November 7th, 1870. 



Vice-Director, Wm Pepper, M.D., in the Chair. 



Nine members present. 



Dr. J. G. Hunt presented the following report in regard to the 

 dust shower, which was accepted, the Committee discharged, and 

 the Corresponding Secretary requested to forward the same to the 

 authorities at the Smithsonian Institution. 



The Committee to whom the dust, sent by H. A. Cutting, and said to hare 

 fallen from the air in Vermont Feb. 12, 1870 ; was referred for examination, 

 make the following report : 

 The dust effervesced under the action of an acid. 



On microscopical examination we find as follows : 



1st. Much granular amorphous matter. 



2d. Many round or oval granules, perfectly transparent. These disappear 

 when treated with nitric acid. It is probable that silica forms no part of 

 their composition. 



3d. Spores of fungi or gonidia of some lichen. 



4th. Diatoms. 



5th. Fragments of vegetable cells, too imperfect for identification. 



6th. Cells of coniferous wood the genus Pinus having the peculiar de- 

 posit characteristic of these cells absent in spots. 



7th. Other cells of coniferous wood with smaller markings than those of the 

 pine ; five dots in a row and two parallel rows in each cell, and the cells ter- 

 minating transversely and not obliquety as in the pine. 



8th. Many cells of an Alga, resembling red snow, or Protococus nivalis, or 

 Palmella cruenta, or Porphrydium, as the unfortunate plant is now called. 

 These cells were in the stage of binary subdivision, well known in that Alga. 



We see no reason to doubt that this dust is the ashes of someburning for- 

 est, which has been sifting the higher regions of the atmosphere with its mi- 

 croscopical fingers, gathering in its transit some recognized organisms and 

 many we could not identify. The distance it may have travelled we cannot 

 measure, nor is it important. 



To the action of the winds Linnaeus ascribes the importation into Europe 

 of the Conyza aerulca of Canada, which now infests the north of France. 



Certain lichens from the mountains of Asia, taken up by whirlwinds, 

 travel among the clouds and, imbibing watery vapor upon the journey, grow 

 during their peregrinations, until they fall at vast distances from where they 

 started. " This rain of plants sometimes forms on those places a layer five 

 or six inches deep. Men feed upon them, and what they cannot consume is 

 given to the cattle." We have been told by aeronauts that they have seen 

 thistle seeds floating above the clouds. If those heavier bodies have been 

 carried vast distances, it is not improbable that this fine dust may have fol- 

 lowed a devious and far distant path. 



Your Committee would request Mr. Cutting to send to this Section a copy 

 of his paper on Dust Storms, when completed. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



(Signed) Dk. J. G. Hunt, 



Dk. Wm. B. Corbit. 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. II 



Dr. Tyson inquired of Dr. Hunt whether the effervescence with 

 acid did not indicate that the dust was composed of earbonaU's, tn 

 which question Dr. Hunt replied in the affirmative. 



November 21st, 1870. 



(Conversational Meeting.) 



Director S. W. Mitchell, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twelve members present. 



Dr. Mitchell read an interesting account of a case of supposed 

 Guinea worm iu a patient from South Carolina, showing the worm 

 itself, presumed to be allied to the Dracunculus, which lie intended 

 to present at the approaching business meeting, and make applica- 

 tion for permission to publish the paper in the next number of the 

 American Journal of the Medical Seienct -. 



In the course of the conversational discussion to which this gave rise, Du. 

 Mitchell stated that a similar case had occurred at the Wills' Hospital some 

 years since. 



Dr. Ooates remarked that not very long ago a horse was on exhibition, 

 and had been seen by many medical gentlemen, in which a worm was dis- 

 tinctly visible within the aqueous humor. He further inquired whether it 

 was known what mode of travelling through the tissues was adopted by the 

 ova in these cases. 



Dr. Holt thought there was little doubt that they made their first entrance 

 into the system in the water used for drinking. 



Dr. Tyson considered that their mode of progress among the structures of 

 the body might be Somewhat analogous to the remarkable amoeboid move- 

 ments of the white blood corpuscles. 



Dr. Mitchell mentioned in this connection a case where a piece of blunt- 

 pointed iron wire was removed at the instep of a patient whose leg it had en- 

 tered above the knee some time, before. 



Dr. Coates finally wished to know how the ovum of this parasite could 

 have made its way through the patient's flesh, been swallowed iu the water 

 which she drank, or even existed at all in her neighborhood, when no other 

 specimen of it-s kind had ever been known to occur in the State of South Ca- 

 rolina. 



December 5th, 1870. 

 (Annual Meeting.) 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, M. D., in the Chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



Dr. Mitchell requested that the paper of Dr. Priolieu, read at the 

 last conversational meeting, should be referred to a committee for 

 publication, if approved. On motion of Dr. Kenderdine, it was 

 voted that Dr. Leidy be appointed a Committee of one, to whom the 

 specimen and communication be referred. 



Reports of the Recorder, the Corresponding Secretary and the 

 Treasurer, each giving abstracts of the affaire and transactions oi 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



the Section in their several departments during the year, were read 

 and accepted. 



Dr. Isaac Norris and Mr. Warner were appointed to examine the 

 Treasurer's account, and, after investigation, reported that it was 

 found to be correct. 



The annual elections being next in order, Dr. J. H. McQuillen 

 and Mr. T. W. Starr were requested to act as tellers, and the De- 

 partment proceeded to elect officers for the ensuing year, as follows : 



Director, S. W. Mitchell, M. D. 



Vice-Director, . . Wm. Pepper, M. D. 



Recorder, . . . Jos. G. Richardson, M. D. 



Corresponding Secretary, Prof. J. H. McQuillen, M. D. 



Treasurer, . . . L. S. Bolles, M. D. 



Curator, . . . W. H. Walmsley. 



Publication Committee. 



Recorder, ex off., Chairman, L. S. Bolles, M. D., 



F. W. Lewis, M. D., M. W. McAllister, 



W. Pepper, M. D., J. G. Hunt, M. D. 



Committee of Curators. 



Wm. H. Walmsley, ex off., Chairman, 



T. W. Starr, Wm. F. Norris, M. D., 



F. W. Lewis, M. D., J. G. Richardson, M. D. 



Committee of Auditors. 

 H. M. Bellows, M. D., J. W. Queen, 



W. McFadden. 



December 19th, 1870. 

 (Conversational Meeting.) 

 Dr. J. G. Hunt in the Chair. 

 Seven members present. 



Mr. T. W. Starr exhibited a slide containing a specimen of a spe- 

 cies of Chelifer, a parasite of the common house fly, strongly resem- 

 bling a scorpion, also one showing scales of the Platessa plana or 

 Flounder, mounted in carbolic acid water. 



In answer to a question from Dr. McQuillen, Mr. Starr stated 

 that his experience in the use of glycerin jelly had been by no 

 means satisfactory. 



Prof. J. H. McQuillen exhibited a remarkable specimen of so- 

 called exostosis at the root of an upper molar tooth from the human 

 mbject, the growth being more than an inch in diameter. Dr. Mc- 

 Quillen gave some account of this curious case, and also showed 

 some specimens of teeth with calcified dentine, and under the mi- 

 croscope some thin sections of the same. 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 13 



INDEX. 



Allen, Prof. Harrison 9 



Amoeboid movement in nuclei of vegetable cells 3 



Atropia and hydrocyanic acid 5 



Bilharziahaematobia 3 



Calcined dentine 12 



Case of Hypospadias, male hermaphrodism 7 



Case of so-called exostosis 12 



Case of supposed Dracunculus 11 



Class microscopes 2 



Chelifer, species of 12 



Coates, B 11 



Corbit, Wm. B 9 



Dentinal fibrili, of Tomes 1 



Dust shower in Vermont 9, 10 



Grimaldia barbifrons 4 



Cold and silver staining of tissues 3 



Hunt, J. G 3. 4, 9, 10 



Johnson, Prof. Christopher " 



Keen, W. W 2, 5 



Kenderdine, R. S 4 



McQuillen, Prof. J. H '. 1, 2, 4, 12 



Mitchell, S. W 3, 11 



Myiarchus cinerascens 4 , 



ff orris, Wm. F 3 



Priolieu, Dr. J. F n 



Powell, Samuel 



Richardson, J. G 



Saxafraga sarmentosa 



Starr, T. W 



Testicle of male hermaphrodite 



Tyson, Prof. James 



Walmsley, W. H 



Woodward, Col. J. J., report of on photo-micrography 



9 



3 



12 

 j 



10 

 2 



3 







PROCEEDINGS 



OF THIS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



No. 1.- January, February, March, April, 1870. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 

 Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 

 1870. 



Merrihew & Son, Printers, 243 Arch St., Philadelphia. 




NOTICE TO STUDENTS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 



The children of the late Augustus E. Jessup, wishing to carry out 

 the intention of their father, " pay to the Academy the sum of four 

 hundred and eighty dollars per annum, to be used for the support 

 of one or more deserving poor young man or men, who may desire 

 to devote the whole of his or their time and energies to the study of 

 any of the Natural Sciences." 



Several young men furnishing evidence of requisite qualifications, 

 on application to the Curators may receive benefit from the Jessup 

 Fund. 




PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Five volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part III. of Vol. 6 (Quarto) 

 Lave been issued, 1847 to 1868. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, 

 or $3.00 per part to subscibers ; and to others, $16.00 per volume, or $3.75 

 per part. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 twelve volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1868,) may be obtained at $33.00, 

 te members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



Tbe Society has established a Publication Fund; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 



prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 



uncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidaj of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 p'ates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos. Say, 

 183034, $10.50. 



Notice to Booksellers.-AU the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a disco mt of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 



public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaox, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1700 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



(London, TRUBNER & CO., 



Agents, 

 January, 1 8 T < > . 



No. 60 Paternoster Row 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 

 No. 61 Walker f:t. 




CONTENTS. 



List of Standing Committees for 1870 7 



Cross Fertilization and the Law of Sex in Euphorbia. By 



Thomas Meehan 14 



Note on the relations of Synocladia, King, 1849, to the proposed 



genus Septopora, Prout, 1858. By F. B. Meek and A. H. 



Worthen 15 



Descriptions of Fossils collected by the U. S. Geological Survey, 



under the charge of Clerence King, Esq. By F. B. Meek.. 56 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OP NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



No. 3. May, June, July, August, 1870. 



V. 



"Z- 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 

 Corner of Broad and Snnsom Streets 

 1870. 



Merrihew & Son, Printer?. 243 Arch St., Philadelphia. 




NOTICE TO STUDENTS OF NATURAL HISTORY 



The children of the late Augustus E. Jessup, wishing to carry out 

 the intention of their father, " pay to the Academy the sum of four 

 hundred and eighty dollars per annum, to be used for the support 

 of one or more deserving poor young man or men, who may desire 

 to devote the whole of his or their time and energies to the study of 

 any of the Natural Sciences." 



Several young men furnishing evidence of requisite qualifications, 

 on application to the Curators may receive benefit from the Jessup 

 Fund. 




PUBLICATIONS 



OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued, 



1847 to 1870. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, or $3.00 per part 

 to subscribers ; and to others, $16.00 per volume, or $3.75 per part: except 

 Vol. 7 containing "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, 

 with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America. Illustrated 

 with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. which can be had sepa- 

 rately for $20.00. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 thirteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1869,) may be obtained at $39.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. Tbese are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



Tbe Society has established a Publication Fund; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 

 uncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionida of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos.Say, 

 183034, $10.50. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 



public. 



Application to be made to Wm.S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom St3. 



fZoM<fo/,TRUBNER & CO., 

 No. 60 Paternoster Row 



Agents. \ 



' | New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 

 L No. 61 Walker St. 



January, 1870. 




CONTENTS. 



Descriptions of Grasshoppers, from Colorado. By Prof. Cyrus 

 Thomas 74 



Remarks ou Huxley's Classification of Birds. By T. Hale 

 Streets 84 



On some New Species of Fishes obtained by Prof. Orton from 

 the Maranon, or Upper Amazon, and Napo Rivers. By 

 Theodore Gill, M.D., Ph.D 92 



Proceedings of the Biological and Microscopical Department 1 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



No- 3. Sept., Oct., Nov., Doc-., 1870. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 

 Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 

 1870. 



Merrihew & Son, Printers, 24.J Arch St., Philadelphia. 




NOTICE TO STUDENTS OF NATURAL HISTORY. 



The children of the late Augustus E. Jessup, wishing to carry out 

 the intention of their father, " pay to the Academy the sum of four 

 hundred and eighty dollars per annum, to be used for the support 

 of one or more deserving poor young man or men, who may desire 

 to devote the whole of his or their time and energies to the study of 

 any of the Natural Sciences." 



Several young men furnishing evidence of requisite qualifications, 

 on application to the Curators may receive benefit from the Jessup 

 Fund. 




PUBLICATIONS 



OP 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued, 

 1847 to 1870. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, or $3.00 per part 

 to subscribers ; and to others, $16.00 per volume, or $3.75 per part : except 

 Vol. 7 containing " The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, 

 with a Synapsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America. Illustrated 

 with thirty plates. By Jjseph Leidy, M.D., LI,. I). which cau be had sepa- 

 rately for $20.00. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may 

 be obtained at $24.00, or for separate volumes $3.25 per volume. 



The First Series of the Proceadings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be 

 obtained at $24.00, to members ; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing Jan. 1, 1857, (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870,) maybe obtained at $39.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per 

 volume. These are now published monthly at $3.00 per annum, payable in 

 advance, to members; and to the public, $3.75. 



The Society has established a Publication Fund ; any person who may con- 

 tribute the sum of $75, will receive, during life, the Journal, quarto, and the 

 Proceedings, octavo ; or separately, the Journal $50, and the Proceedings $25. 



BOOKS FOR SALE. 



The Academy have a few copies of the following rare works, for sale at the 

 prices affixed. 



Michaux' North American Sylva, 2 vols, octavo, Philadelphia, 1841, with 156 

 uncolored plates, $10.00. 



Monograph of the Unionidae of North America, by T. A. Conrad. Complete 

 with 60 colored plates, octavo, 1840, $8.50. 



Fossils of the Tertiary Formation of the United States, by T. A. Conrad. 

 Complete, with 49 plates, octavo, 1838, $5.00. 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates, by Thos.Say, 

 igoQ 34 $10.50 



Notice'to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the 



^Application to be made to Wm.S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, cor- 

 ner of Broad and Sansom Sts. 



1 London, TRUBNER & CO., 

 No. 60 Paternoster Row- 

 New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 

 No. 61 Walker St. 

 Salem, Maia.Naturattati Agency. 



January, 1871. 




CONTENTS. 



Notice of some Crustacea of the Genus Libinia, with descrip- 

 tions of four new Species. By T. Hale Streets, - -104 

 On the Flowers of Aralia spinosa, L., and Hedera helix, L. 



By Thomas Meehan, - - - - - 107 



On the Stipules of Magnolia and Liriodendron. By Thomas 



Meehan, - - - - - ' - 114 



Notes on Silphium lacadatum, L. the Compass Plant. By 



Thomas Meehan, - - - - - - 117 



Observations on some Fishes new to the American Fauna, found 



at Newport, R. I. By Samuel Powel, - - - 118 



Bud Varieties. By Thomas Meehan, - - - - 128 



A Sketch of the Classification of the American Anserinse. By 



B. H. Bannister, - - -' - - - 130 



Remarks on Dr. Asa Gray's Notes on Buckley's new Plants of 



Texas. By Prof. S. B. Buckley, - - - -135 



A new Classification of the North American Falconida 1 , with 



Descriptions of Three new Species. By Robert Ridgway, 138 

 Librarian's Report, - - - - - .150 



Report of the Curators, ... . . . 151 



Report of the Botauical Committee, .... 152 



Report of the Recording Secretary, .... 153 



Reports of the Conchological Section : 



Recorder's Report, ..... 154 



Corresponding Secretary's Report, - - - 155 



Librarian's Report, ..... 155 



Conservator's Report, - - - - - 155 



Officers for 1871, - - - - - - 157 



Elections for 1800, - - - - - - 158 



Correspondence of the Academy, - 159 



Donations to the Library, - - . - - 162 



Index to Genera, ...... 176 



General Index, ------- 179 



Proceedings of the Biological and Microscopical Department, 9 






Mill WHOI I.1HK \HY 





