



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1873. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. W. Tryox, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGEK, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1873. 




Hall op the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, February, 1874. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1873 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : 



SAMUEL B. HOWELL, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PKILAIIEI.PRIA : 

 COLLINS, PRINTRR. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several articles contribtited by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Bland, Thos. and W. G. Binney. On the Lingual Dentition and Jaw 

 of Certain Terrestrial Pulmonata from the United States, with 



remarks on their Systematic Value 240 



Cope, E. D. On two new species of Saurodontidae 337 



On some new Batrachia and Fishes from the Coal Measures of Linton, 



Ohio 340 



Cresson, E. T. Descriptions of Mexican Ichneumonidge 104, 374 



Crotch, G. R. Materials for the Study of the Phytophaga of the United 



States 19 



Notes on the Species of Buprestidse found in the United States 84 



Dall, W. H. Catalogue of the Recent Species of the Class Brachio- 



poda 177 



Garrett, A. Descriptions of new species of Marine Shells inhabiting 



the South Sea Islands 209 



Description of a new species of Goniodoris 232 



Descriptions of new species of Land Shells inhabiting the South Sea 



Islands 233 



Gentry, T. G. Observations on change in structure of a Larva of 



Dryocampa imperialis 274 



Influence of Nutrition on Sex among the Lepidoptera 281 



Observations on Nests of Sayornis Fuscus 292 



Observations on the Habits of the Neuters of Formica Sanguinea. . . 298 



Gill, T. On the Affinities of the Sirenians 262 



On a New American Species of Pleuronectoid (Glyptocephalus Aca- 



dianus) ^ 360 



Hoopes, B. A. Description of a new variety of Butco 238 



Lea, I. Description of Seven New Species of Unionidse of the United 



States 422 



Description of Three New Species of Uniones of the United States. . 424 



Le Conte, J. The Pterostichi of the United States 302 



Synonymical Remarks upon North American Coleoptera 321 



/ h ^Ik 




IV LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



Median, T. Obituary Notice of Ellas Durand 355 



Newberry, J. S. Notes on the Genus Conchiopsis, Cope 425 



Stearns, R. E. C. Descriptions of New Marine Shells from the West 



Coast of Florida 344 



Thomas, C. Descriptions of new species of Orthoptera collected in 



Nevada, Utah, and Arizona by the Expedition under Lieut. Geo. 



M. Wheeler 295 




PEOCEEDIKGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1873. 



January Y, 1873. 

 The President, Br. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Trautwineite, a New Mineral. By E. Goldsmith. A mineral on 

 chi'omite, from California, was given to me for examination b^' Mr. 

 Traiitwine, who requested me to ascertain whether it was chrome- 

 green. The mineral has a green color; the hardness is between 

 1 and 2. With the naked eye the material appears to be amor- 

 phous, but, observed under high power, it proves to be crystallized ; 

 it is therefore microcrystalline. The regular forms, which I saw, 

 were short hexagonal pyramids, the infinite pyramid (prism), and 

 triangular slender prisms, which may be one-sixth sections of the 

 hexagonal prism ; I presume that this latter form is sometimes 

 called microlitic. When the substance is moistened on a glass 

 slip, covered and placed between the two crossed nicol prisms, 

 light is transmitted, with the usual phenomena of coloration. In 

 regard to colors, I may note here, that the infinite pyramid shows 

 by transmitted light a red color, but by reflected light it is green. 



Under ordinary circumstances the mineral is dull, but when 

 observed under power it appears vitreous. The streak is light 

 green. 



Pyrochemical tests: In the glass tube, closed on one end, when 

 heated to redness it shows a little water, and turus bluish-groeu. 



In borax, also in raicrocosmic salt, the material dissolves entirely 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



when licatod Ions: enough. Tlic ixlriss beads are green after cooling, 

 having been subjected to the oxidizing or the reiluction fire. 



Carbonate of soda dissolves it, forming a yellow mass in the 

 oxidizing, and a green one in the reduction flame. In acids the 

 suljstance is not soluble, except some iron with which it is con- 

 taminated. 



The further qualitative chemical examination indicated tlie 

 oxides of chromium, iron, and magnesium. 



For want of means the quantitative determination of those ele- 

 ments was not undertaken, but reserved for some future time. 



The mineral known under the name of chrome-ochre must not be 

 confounded with the above, for chi-ome-ochre is descrilied to be a 

 silicate of alumina, tinged with the sesquioxide of chromium. We 

 are also told that it is amorphous, and its occurrence on por- 

 l)liyrv near Ilalle, and near Waldenburg in Silesia, or on a conglo- 

 merate, as near Creuzot in France, sliows I tliink suflicient differ- 

 ences not to consider it to be identical with the California mineral 

 on the chromit'e. M3' impression is, that the mineral described 

 is a new species, and if so, I would propose to name it in honor 

 of Mr. John C. Trautwine, the first observer, Trautioineite. 



Prof. Cope remarked, that, through the kindness of Prof. B. F. 

 Mudge, he had an op})ortunity of examining additional specimens 

 of the turtle from the cretaceous of Kansas, .described by him in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy 1872 p. 129. The phalanges in- 

 dicated a large flip})er of the type of marine turtles. They are 

 more flattened than in tiie PropJuridfv so far as the latter are 

 known, and are proportionally larger. The genus and species were 

 named Toxochelya latiremia. 



January 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj'-seven members present. 



The following pajjcrs were offered for publication : 

 "Materials for the stud3' of the Phytophaga of the United 

 States." By G. R. Crotch, M.A. "Notes on tiie species of Bu- 

 prestidie of the United States." By G. R. Crotch, ^I.A. 



Prof. Cope made some observations on the structure and sys- 

 tematic |)Osition of the genus EobasHeus Cope. Uintatherium 

 Leidy and Dinocerai^ Marsh were names applied to allied Mam- 

 mals, so tiuit the same would probably apply to them also. 

 Tlu\y had both been originally referred to the rcriitnodachjJa. Ity 

 their describors, and subsequently Marsh had stated (Am. Journ. 

 Sci. Arts. July IS, 1ST2) that the species described by him 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPIITA. 11 



(Titanofherium ?a)icepi<) is a Proboscirlian, without giving any 

 reasons therefor. The speaker, in describing the genus Eobcmleus 

 (Proc. Amer. Philos. Society, August 20, 1872) referred it to the 

 Proboscidia, giving as reasons the structure of the bones of the 

 leg and foot, and of the posterior part of the skull. Prof. Marsli 

 (1. c. Aug. 24) refers his species again to the Proboscidia^ stating 

 as a reason, "that the limbs resemble those of Masiodon^^^ and lie 

 refers it to a genus Ti^ioceras^ without description. Later (1. c. 

 Sept. 21, 1872), Prof. Marsh refers these animals to a new order, 

 Dinoceria {IDinocerata)^ withdrawing them from the Proboscidia. 

 Lastly, he stated, at a meeting of the American Philosophical 

 Societ}", Dec. 20, 1872), that this order differs from Proboscidia 

 in the presence of canine teeth and horus, and the absence of in- 

 cisors. 



Until further evidence is presented, I adhere to m}^ original 

 position, that these animals are true Proboscidia. and cannot be 

 referred to any other order. The reasons are as follows: 



1. The malar bone is rod-like, and forms the middle element of 



the zygomatic arch. 



2. The cervical vertebrte are exceedingly short and transverse. 



3. In the distally expanded ulna supporting much of the carpus, 



and the slender radius crossing it to the outer side. 



4. The femur is without third trochanter. 



5. Its condyles are contracted, and the narrow intercond^dar 



fissure is prolonged far forwards. 



6. The spine of the tibia is wanting, and the glenoid cavities 



separated by a longitudinal keel. 



7. The astragalus is not hour-glass shaped above, but with a uni- 



form face. 



8. The short plantigrade calcaneum. 



9. The phalanges are short and stout, and represent several toes. 



To these may be added three external characters which directl}^ 

 result from the osteological, viz. : 



10. The possession of a proboscis. This is proven bj'' the very 



short cervical vertebra?, and by the fact that the nasal and pre- 

 maxillary bones are deeply excavated at their extremities, 

 with surrounding osseous eminences, for the origin of the 

 muscles of the trunk, and by the extreme stoutness of the 

 nasal bones. 



11. The extension of the femur below tlie body, so that the leg 



Avas extended with the knee below and free from the body, 

 as in elephants, monkeys, and men. 



12. The short i)lantigrade foot, so ditlereut from that seen in otlier 

 divisions of Ungulata. 



Other characters, common to Proboscidia and some other un- 

 gulates, are: 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



13. The scapula acuminate in outline above the spine, with a very 



short coracoid. 



14. Broad truncate occiput with widely separated temporal fossae. 



15. The greatl}' expanded iliac bones. 



The dentition is not far removed from that of Dinothey^ium. 

 The presence of canine teeth might not prove a ground of dis- 

 tinction between Elephantidse and Eobasileus, since in both types 

 the tusk is embraced by both the premaxillarj^ and maxiilarj'- 

 bones. It thus becomes exceedingly probable that the tusk of 

 Maatodon and Elephant, regarded as an incisor by Cuvier, is 

 really a canine. But should a real peculiarity exist in this point, 

 as does in the presence of horns, the two cannot distinguish the 

 family from this order. Such range of variation is well known 

 to exist in the Artiodactyla, where some Cervidae and Antelopidee 

 are horned and some not ; and where musk-deer have canines and 

 Boridx none; or where the omnivorous section have canines and 

 lack horns, while Bomdse have horns and lack canines. 



The peculiar physiognomy of the Elephants is, as is well known, 

 produced by the enormous development of the frontal sinuses. 

 In Binotkerium this structure is greatly reduced, and in Eobasi- 

 leuH exists chiefly in the squamosal region. The physiognomy of 

 the latter is also materially affected by the great prolongation 

 forwards of the nasal bones, which support horns or processes 

 at both extremities, and hy the narrowing of the snout, produc- 

 ing a somewhat pig-like expression. The palatal surface of the 

 mouth is thus greatly elongate and narrowed, and must have 

 accommodated a very slender tongue. These modifications are 

 but subordinate, and such as we find iu difl'ereut members of the 

 same order. 



.On the Forms of Artijicial Oxide of Zinc. By George A. 

 KoENio, Ph.D. The specimen under examination is a piece of 

 brick taken from a zinc furnace of Lasalle, 111. It is a gift of 

 Mr. Ilegler, proprietor of the works, to C. E. Richtcr, M. E., 

 from whom I obtained it. I am not aware that any description 

 of its occurrence has been published, and am confirmed in this 

 belief bv the fact that it was Qiven to Mr. Kichter as a curious 

 but unknown substance. 



The surface of the brick is covered by a dirt}- greenish coating, 

 the nature of which could not be ascertained on account of its 

 extreme thinness. A part of the surface, about one inch square, 

 is covered by a cluster of long hair-like needles of a brilliant 

 white color and glassy lustre. These needles are very nearly 

 posed jtarallcl to each other and to the face of the brick, present- 

 ing somewhat the api)earance as if part of a goat's beard had 

 been cut off and put on the stone. A number of cavities in the 

 brick contain these needles also, but here they are placed trans- 

 versel}' like many minerals, for instance millerite. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



111 order not to spoil the specimen, I took only 0.1 gramme for 

 analysis, and in this quantity could not obtain anj' other reaction 

 but on zinc. This metal was first precipitated by ammoniac 

 sulphide, then redissolved and precipitated by sodic carbonate. 

 It- weighed, after ignition, 0.09.5 gramme. Tiiis result leaves no 

 doubt of the truth of the assertion, that the substance examined 

 is pure oxide of zinc. 



Placed under the microscope, with a magnifying power of 250 

 diameters, the needles present a purely prismatical habitus. 

 Moreover, it seems apparent from the form of the basal termina- 

 tion, that the prisms belong to the hexagonal system. 



The natural oxide of zinc, the zincite or red zinc ore, has not 

 been found 3'et in well-defined crystals; but the massive specimens 

 of Sparta, Franklin and Stirling, N. J., show a distinct cleavage 

 after a hexagonal prism and after the hexagonal basis. Thus, the 

 identity of form in the natural oxide of zinc and in the artificial 

 oxide, would seem to be existing. 



On a Boiler Incrustation from Neiv Jersey. By George A, 

 KoENiG, Ph.D. Some time ago Mr. Joseph Harrison, Jr., pre- 

 sented to the Academy a specimen of boiler incrustation from 

 Orange Co., N. J. The physical properties of this incrustation 

 were remarkable enough to suggest a chemical examination. It 

 was about half an inch thick, presented a smooth surface, was 

 hard and coherent, of a brownish-flesh-color, and showed on tlie 

 fracture a distinct prismatic structure, the prisms standing 

 vertically on the surface. It looked very much like tlie so-called 

 " Sprudelstein" from Karls!)ad in Bohemia, which is aragonite. 



The analysis gave the following results : 



99.57 



57.58 parts of sulphuric acid require, by theory, 40.306 parts of 

 calcic oxide to form calcic sulphate, which latter number corres- 

 ponds perfectly' with the one found ; we can say, hence, that the 

 incrustation is composed of 



Calcic sulphate = 97.89 



Ferric hydrate = 0.72 



Silica 0.05 



Organic matter 0.82 



To m}' knowledge there has not been described, so far, a boiler 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



incrustation which is so vorv near chemically pure calcic sulphate, 

 and none in which tliis is so perfectly anhydrous. AVe know tiiat 

 calcic snlpiiate occurs in nature in two forms. In one it is com- 

 bined with two equivalents of water, viz.: 



Calcic sulphate = 79.07 

 Water = 20.93 



crystallizing in oblique rhombic prisms, and is called gypsum. 

 Tiien it is found without water, cr^^stallized in orthorhombic 

 prisms, and is named anhydrite. 



We know fuither that gypsum begins to lose water not much 

 above the boiling point of water, and can be rendered anhydrous 

 by prolonged heating at about 200 centigrade. Still it seemed 

 of interest to ascertain what changes would take place in a satu- 

 rated solution of gyi)sum Avhen evaporated /inder the atmospheric 

 pressure at the boiling point, and also under a higher pressure. 



A saturated solution of gypsum was kept at the boiling point 

 until an ample amount of precipitate had formed. This precipi- 

 tate consisted of minute scales with a marked silky lustre. Under 

 a magnifying power of GO diameters the scales proved to possess 

 the characteristic tabular forms of gypsum with the oblique basis. 

 They were perfectly transparent, and many were twins, those 

 swallow-tail shaped forms so well known. 



Upon ignition 20.7 per cent, of water was found instead of 

 20.93, as required by the formula. 



A saturated solution of gypsum was now sealed up into a glass 

 tube, and kept in an oil bath for fourteen hours at a temperature 

 of 148 centigrade. This temperature is equal to a pressure of 

 4.4 atmospheres, or 66 pounds to the square inch. 



A slight granular precipitate was found on the glass after re- 

 moving the tube from the bath and drawing olf the mother liquor. 

 Under a magnifying power of 1 20 diameters the apparent granules 

 dissolved into stellate groups of needle-shaped crystals intermixed 

 witli single needles of a larger size. Most of the crystals had the 

 oblique rhombic basal termination of gypsum; but some showed 

 an orthorhombic basis. All the crystals had become opaque, 

 apparently b}'^ innumerable fissures, as a network could be dis- 

 cerned in many individuals. The presence of prismatic protu- 

 berances on some of the cr3'stals standing at right angles to the 

 princii)al axis of the main crystal seemed very curious. 



The preci}/itate was now removed from the tube and carefully 

 washed, then dried over sulphuric acid. After ignition a loss was 

 ])roduced of 3.1 per cent. Taking into consideration that not all 

 of the mother licpior was washed out and crystallizeil as gyi)- 

 snm, this result may be looked upon as coniirmatory that the 

 whole of the precipitate is anhydrite. Professor Genth is of 

 opinion that tlie opaque stellate crystals are pseudomorphs of 

 anhydrite after gy|)sum, and there does not seem at present any 

 reason to the contrary. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



In nature we find the anh3'drite associated with rock salt. Sup- 

 posing that the deposition of the chlorides of sodium and potas- 

 sium took place under a nioderatel}- high column of saturated 

 water, the pressure exercised by this column would give a satis- 

 factory explanation for the fact that calcic sulphate crystallized 

 as anhydrite. The j)resence of gypsum in the same deposits would 

 suggest a subsequent metamorphosis of the anhydrite into gypsum 

 by taking up water. 



January 21. 

 Dr. Bridges in the chair. 

 Twenty members present. 



Notice of Fossil Vertebrates from the Miocene of Virginia. 

 Prof. Leidy directed attention to some fossils, part of a small 

 collection recently received. They were found imbedded in blue 

 clay containing an abundance of fossil diatomes, among which 

 Coscinodiscus is especiallj^ conspicuous. The fossil vertebrate re- 

 mains consist mainly of vertebrae and teeth of cetaceans, vertebrae 

 of bony fishes, teeth of sharks, and spines of rays. Among them 

 also there is a portion of a humerus of a bird, and several worn 

 teeth of a peccary. Besides these there are specimens which may 

 be regarded as characteristic of the following undescribed species. 



Protocamelus virginiensis. Represented by the lower last 

 premolar, and the first and last molars of an animal about the size 

 of the existing Lama, and intermediate in size to Protocamelus 

 occidentalis and F. gracilis of the tertiai'y of the Niobrara River, 

 Nebraska. 



Tautoga (Protautoga) conidens. Represented by a premax- 

 illary with teeth, and portion of another witli the first tooth. The 

 specimens indicate a much larger species than the living Black 

 Fish Tautoga. The bones and relative position of the teeth ex- 

 hibit some peculiarities. The premaxillary externally is flatter 

 than in the Black Fish, and it appears as if it did not turn 

 down in a hook-like end at its outer extremity. The teeth also 

 are separated by comparativel}'- wide intervals, independently of 

 the interspaces provided for successional teeth. The form of the 

 teeth is the same as in the Black Fish. One of the specimens 

 contains the base of the first large tooth and a row behind of 

 seven other teeth. The other specimen contains tlie first large 

 tooth, which is nearly half an inch in length, but proportionately 

 more robust than in the Black Fish. 



Acipenser ornatus. Founded on a dorso-lateral plate indi- 

 cating an extinct species of sturgeon of medium size. The length 

 or height of the plate is about 2^ inches ; its breadth along the 

 crest is an inch and three-fourths. 




16 PROOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said he had the pleasure of offering to 

 the Acadom}' some facts in regard to the fertilization of flowers 

 which confirmed the popular view that pollen of one variet}- had 

 an immediate influence on the structure of the fruit of another 

 variety, as well as on the progeny; and also he thought furnishing 

 some entirel}' new facts in regard to the ability of a seed germ to 

 receive impregnation from two distinct sources. He liad pre- 

 sented to the Acadeni}' last year fruit gathered from a pear tree, 

 whicli the members would remember had the regular seeds and 

 carpels of a pear, but the flesh was fibrous and not granular 

 as in the pear, and the external membranes or rind was that of 

 an apple. An apple tree had its branches interwoven with that 

 of the pear, and it had been assumed that the pollen of the apple 

 had so influenced the fruit of the pear as to produce an immediate 

 effect in the way presented. 



But it had been urged in some quarters that this assumption 

 was open to objection. It was now fully proved that changes 

 of form occurred through what is now known as hud variations 

 and independent of any seminal action; and it was contended 

 this might have been the case in the pear-apple referred to. That 

 there are these changes is well known. The peach is believed to 

 be a development of this character from the almond at any rate 

 the nectarine is positively known to have sprung from a bud 

 not from a seed of the peach. But in case it might still be argued 

 that in some way there was a latent germinal influence in the cells 

 of plants the results of cross breeding many generations past ; in 

 other words, that the new appearance was sirapl}' a reversion and 

 not a new creation, there had been some evidence in regard to the 

 sweet potato oflfered to the Academy a few years ago, proving 

 bud variation quite independent of any supposed reversionary 

 character derived from seminal influence. Tiiere are no closely 

 allied species to the sweet potatoes grown. ]Moreover it does not 

 flower in these northern regions; yet root stocks had been exhib- 

 ited here with tubers of two varieties distinct in color, form, and 

 other characters growing on the same plant. 



But the gentleman who sent the apples to the Academy, Mr. 

 Arnold of Paris, Canada, determined to observe the effect of cross 

 fertilization on Indian corn. He procured a very peculiar variety 

 of which Mr. Meehan exhibited an ear, not known in tlie vicinity 

 a brown variety, with a circular dent at the apex and raised 

 one plant from it. The first set of flowers were permitted to be 

 fertilized by their own pollen in order to test whether there was 

 any reversionary tendency in the plant, or the pollen of an}' other 

 variety in the vicinit3^ The ear now produced was the result 

 every grain being like its parent. The corn plant produces two ears 

 on each stalk. As soon as the "silk" the pistils of this second 

 ear appeared, the pollen in a " tassel" of the common yellow 

 flint corn was procured, set in a bottle of water tied near the de- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



veloping ear, the plant's own tassel having been cut awaj^ some- 

 time previous. After a short time this set of male flowers was 

 removed, and a panicle of male flowers from a white variety' was 

 introduced to the same bottle in order to alford it the opportunity 

 of operating on the same female flowers. The result was the ear 

 now presented. The base of each grain was of the yellow flint 

 corn, but the upper half of the white variety. 



Those who opposed the facts of evolution by continually cau- 

 tioning its advocates against giving way to "imagination." and 

 " brilliant speculations," he thought might be profitably benefited 

 by their own suggestions. There was comparatively little to sus- 

 tain the idea of reversion, but fancied resemblance and this re- 

 semblance not the result of a comparison of two facts side by 

 side; but a fact on one hand compared with memory, and often 

 the distant and vague memory of another long in the past. At 

 any rate, in these experiments of Mr. Arnold, there was the test 

 applied to guard against any objection of either reversion or 

 evolution, which, though not absolutely perfect, was as near so as 

 the vast mass of human experience was; and the result was he 

 tJiought no escape from the conclusion, not only that there was 

 an immediate influence on the seed and the whole fruit struL-ture 

 by the application of strange pollen; but the still more important 

 fact, hardly before more than sus{)ected, that one ovule could re- 

 ceive and be affected by the pollen of two distinct parents, and 

 this too after some time had elapsed between the first and second 

 impregnation. 



January 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Charles Sin- 

 nickson, Chas. I. Yorke, Jr., John S. Sinnickson, M.D., Armon 

 D. Trimble, and Howard N. Potts. 



The following standing committees were elected for the year 

 1873: 



Anthropology. Comparative Anatomy. 



J. Aitken Meigs, Harrison Allen, 



Henry S. Schell, J. If. McQuillen, 



J. F. Richardson. Jos. Leid}-, 



Henr}^ C. Chapman. 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mammalogy. 



Harrison Allen, 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Henry C. ("hapman, 

 U. C. Smith. 



Ichthyology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Thaddens Norris, 

 J. H. Eedfiold. 



Articulata. 

 G. H. Horn, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 T. Hale Streets. 



Vertebrate Palaeontology. 

 Jos. Leid}', 

 Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen. 



Botany. 



E. Durand, 

 Thos. Meehan, 

 Isaac Burk, 

 Rachel Bodley. 



Chemistry. 



F. A. Genth, 

 Robert Bridges, 

 E. Goldsmith, 

 S. B. Howell. 



Instruction and Lectures. 

 Hector Tyndale, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 Wm. S. Halsey, 

 J. Aitken Meigs, 



Ornithology. 



Bernard A. Hoopes, 

 Edwin Sheppard, 

 Tlieo. L. Harrison, 

 Jas. Ogden, 

 John Krider. 



Herpetology. 



Edw. D. Cope, 

 Harrison Allen, 

 Samuel B. Howell. 



Radiata. 



G. H. Horn, 

 J. G. Hunt, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, 

 S. B. Howell. 



Invertebrate Palaeontology. 

 T. A. Conrad, 

 H. C. Wood, Jr., 

 Persifer Frazer, Jr. 



Mineralogy. 



Wra. S. Yaux, 

 E. Goldsmith, 

 Jos. Willcox, 

 Clarence S. Bement, 

 Persifer Frazer, Jr. 



Physics. 



R. E. Rogers, 



J. G. Hunt, 



Robert Bridges, 



J. H. McQuillen, 



Alex. Willcox. 

 Library. 



Jos. Leidy, 



Chas. F. i'arker, 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, 



J. G. Richardson. 



W. S. W. Rusche'nberffer. 



On report of the committees, the following papers were ordered 

 to be printed. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



MATERIALS FOE THE STUDY OF THE PHYTOPHAGA OF THE UNITED 



STATES. 



BY G. R. CROTCH, M. A. CANTAB. 



The following paper does not profess to bean exhaustive raono- 

 grapli upon this group; for such a work the tiine is not come, and 

 the species here noticed will be nearl\^ doubled if they are dili- 

 gently collected and observed in diiterent States. In particular, 

 I would call attention to the HaUicini, as being in almost a com- 

 plete chaos. I have endeavored to diagnose the various genera, 

 adding as few as possible at present, and to give tables, and often 

 diagnoses of all the species ; in some intricate genera, I have, 

 however, abstained from remark. The immediate object of this 

 publication is to make known the numerous unnamed species 

 common in collections, in order that they may be inserted in the 

 forthcoming check list of the Coleoptera of the United States, 

 now ],rinting at Salem. All the species described are from the 

 cabinets of Drs. Leconte and Horn, without whose help and aid, 

 this paper could not have been attempted. 



CHRYSOMELIDiE. 



Form elongate, thorax not margined, head constricted behind. 



Ist ventral segment very long, claws sunple. Bonaciides. 



1st ventral segment not longer than the rest. 



Claw^s dentate, posterior coxae nearly contiguous. Orsodacnides. 

 Claws simple, connate. Criocerides. 



Form more or less rounded, thorax margined, head inserted. 

 Antenna? distant. 



Pygidium vertical, bare, Itist ventral segments connate. 



Anterior coxae prominent, contiguous. 3felolont7iides. 



Anterior coxae transverse, distant. Cryptocephalides. 



Abdomen normal. 



Anterior coxa? transverse, claws generally simple. 



Chrysomelides. 

 ^ Anterior coxae globose, claws bifid. Eumolpides. 



Antenna; approximate, anterior coxa conical, prominent. 



Oalerucides. 

 Form variable, antennae approximate, inserted on the front. 



Head free, form elongate. liispides. 



Head hidden under the thorax, elytra explanate. Cassidides. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DONACIIDES. 



DoNACiA, Fabr. 



I. AntPror tibiae simple, form elongate subtriangular, elytra truncate at the 

 apex, upper surface flattened, femora often elongate, dentate. 



Aa. 3d joint of antenna; much longer than the second legs more or 

 less pale. 

 Ba. Head, thorax, and scutellum pubescent. 



Ca. Elytra rounded, femora simple, elytral interstices punetu- 



late. ptibicollis. 



Cb. Elytra subtruncate, % femora unideutate. Harrisii. 

 Bb. Above glabrous. 



Ca. Thorax scarcely punctulate. 



Da. % posterior femora, 2-3-dentate, tibiae serrate. 



lucida. 

 Bb. % posterior femora, 1-dentate, tibiae simple. 

 Ea. 9 p()sterior femora dentate. 



Fa. Thorax with the anterior callus obsolete. 

 6a. Elytra transversely regulose, % anterior 



tarsi dilated. palmata. 



Gb. Elytra smooth. 



Ha. Elytra striate punctate, interstices 



convex. hypoleuca. 



Hb. Elytra seriate punctate. tcxana. 

 Fb. Callus well marked, 9 ^^'it'i Ifist segment 

 produced. piscntrix. 



Eb. 9 posterior femora simple, form of next section. 



tuberculata. 

 Cb. Thorax closely punctulate, subrugulose. poroskollin. 

 Ab. 3d joint of antenna? not, or hardly, longer than 2d, legs aeneous. 

 Ba. Thorax and head pubescent. hirticollia. 



Bb. Glabrous. 



Ca. Posterior femora 2-3-dentate, tibia" serrate. 

 Ba. Thorax quadrate, antennal joints equal. 



magnifica, 

 Bb. Tliorax elongate, 3d joint visibly longer than 2d. 



proxima. 

 Cb. Posterior femora sliorter, 1-dentate. 



Ba. Thorax with distinct callus, % pygidium emarginate. 



distincta. 

 Bb. Thorax closely punctate (tibiae sometimes pale). 



subtilis. 

 II. Elytra subtruncate or rounded, convex, parallel ; antennae short ; legs 

 short, tiiick ; anterior tibiae with the apex produced into a tooth. 



(Phiteumaris Th.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Aa. Pubescent. pubescens. 



Ab. Glabrous. 



Ba. Elytra siibtruncate, legs nearly black. 



Ca. Elytra bi-impressod, thorax Ibveolate inside the callus. 



confusa. 

 Gb. Thorax nearly smooth. torosa. 



Bb. Elytra rounded, scutellum pilose. 



Ca. Thorax more or less rugulose, basal groove not defined. 

 Da. % 9 posterior femora dentate. 



Ea. % pygidium emarginate, legs black, thorax 



sparsely punctulate. emarginata. 



Eb. Thorax rugulose, legs more or less red. 



Fa. Antennae with the 2d and 3d joints equal. 



pyritosa. 

 Fb. 3d distinctly longer than 2d. cuprea. 



Bb. 9 femora simple. 



Ea. Thorax rugulose, with smooth reliefs, legs red. 



femoralis. 

 Eb. Thorax with disk smooth, dorsal channel visible, 

 legs nearly black. metallica. 



Cb. Thorax convex, dorsal and basal grooves marked, legs 

 red. 



Ba. Thorax less convex, rugulose. flavipes. 



Bb. Thorax convex, punctate. jucunda. 



Be. Thorax very sparingly punctate. Kirbyi. 



For a full description of these species the reader is referred to 

 Leconte's synopsis, in the Proceedings of the Acaderaj^ for 1852. 

 Several species therein described are here marked as varieties, 

 possibly in some cases incorrectly; but I have included only 

 those species that I could definitely tabulate out, and rejected all 

 others. The synonymy thus introduced will stand thus : D. 

 rufescens = pulchella = lucida ; D. congener = alutacea = pisca- 

 trix; D. confiuens=fulgens=^s\x\)\A\is\ D. aurifer = dives =pu- 

 silla^cuprea, ] D. geniilis ^metuWica; D. sidcicollis^D. Kirbj'i. 

 I am unable to add anything about the doubtful species, of which 

 types must be compared ; of species described since, D. Cali- 

 /ornica =proxima, D. junci=emavginsita, and D. pubescens will 

 be found above. 



D. pubicollis, sp. n. 



Narrow, elongate aeneous; legs pale-red, under surface silvery; 

 head, thorax, and scutellum cinereous, pubescent; eyes prominent ; 

 thorax longer than broad, callus not well-marked, surface puuctu- 




22 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



late; elytra closely striate punctate, apex rounded, interstices 

 rugiilose; til>ia carinate externallj-, apex not produced. L. .42. 

 Illinois. Very distinctly' the rounded elytra, simple femora, and 

 pubescent thorax. 



D. texana, sp. n. 



Head and thorax narrow, elj'tra rather broad, triangular ; be- 

 neath silvery, above dark-green ; eyes prominent, head sulcate, 

 bituberculate in front ; thorax broader than long, alutaceous, 

 hardly punctulate ; elytra smooth, interstices flat, broad, the rows 

 of punctures golden-green ; legs and antennae aeneous, base of 

 femora pale. L. .40. Texas. 



The only other genus belonging toihis sub-family is Macroplea 

 (Hsemonia), readily recognized by the glabrous testaceous surface, 

 and by its el^'^tra produced into a spine at the apex. The only 

 species is H. Melsheimeri, which lives in rivers clinging to aquatic 

 plants, and may be found throughout the summer. 



OKSODACHNIDES. 



A. Anterior coxal cavities open, thorax with sides dentate. Syneta. 



B. Coxal cavities closed. 



a. Eyes entire. Orsodachna. 



b. Eyes emarginate, thorax with a lateral tubercle. Zeugophora. 



Orsodachna, Latr. 



1. 0. atra (Ahrens), N. Act. Hal., i. 3, p. 26, 27. 



Elongate, thorax coarsely rugosely punctate, with several 

 smooth places in relief; elytra coarsel}', rather closel}' punctate ; 

 beneath finely punctate, and clothed with a short decumbent 

 pubescence. L. .22-.2G. Atlantic region. 



This species is extremely variable, the thorax is black or red, 

 and the elytra are black or ochreous, with the suture and margins 

 black ; the legs are red or black. From these varieties have been 

 formed the hepatica and. vittala of Say, the bwUlata of Lacordaire, 

 the rvficollis and inconstans of Xewman, and the armoiiacae of 

 (iermar. Ahren's name is much older than any of these. 



2. 0. Children!, Kirby, Faun., B. A., p. 221, 298, pi. 7, f. 6, tibialis, Kirby, 1. c. 



Closely allied to the preceding, similarly varial)lc, but smaller, 

 narrower, more shining; thorax sparsely not deeply punctate, 

 elytra less strongly and less coarsely punctate normally, with 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



the margin narrowly, and a broad fascia behind the middle, black ; 

 under side as in O. atra. L. .21-.24, Canada, Hudson's Bay, 

 Lake Superior. 



Black varieties of this species also occur. 



3. 0. luctuosa, Lac, Mon. i. p. 72, 73. 



Black, thorax red, with a very large spot black, tolerably 

 narrowed behind, margins thickly, disk vaguely punctate, elytra 

 closely punctate, finely transversely rugose. L. 3^ iin. Oregon 

 (Reiche). This species I have not seen. 



Zeugophora (Kunze), (Taraxis, Lee). 



1. Z. scutellaris, SufFr. Lac, Mon. i. 236, 1. 



Black, head, thorax, scutellnm, legs, pro- and meso-sternum 

 clear, testaceous yellow ; antennoe with the first joint yellow, 

 2-3 yellowish; scarcely pubescent, coarsely punctate. L. .L5. 

 Illinois (Leconte). 



2. Z. abnormis (Lee), Lake Sup., p. 237. 



Rather elongate, very sparsely pubescent, coarsely punctate ; 

 thorax with the lateral spine obtusely rounded, short, black; 

 antenna?, parts of the mouth, and legs red; epipleuraj of thorax 

 and el,ytra pitchy. L. .16. Lake Superior, Oregon. More elon- 

 gate than the other species; fifth joint of antennte larger than the 

 sixth. A variety entirely rufous also occurs. 



3. Z. puberula, sp- n. 



Allied to Z. acutellaris^ but with short antennre and thickly 

 pubescent surface; the lateral spine is well marked, triangular, 

 the color is dark ferrugineous, the meta-sternum, abdomen, and 

 joints, 5-11 of the antenuiB being black. L. .14. Illinois (Leconte). 



4. Z, varians, sp. n. 



Very sparingl 3^ pubescent, shining; front of head antennae, legs, 

 and pro-sternum pale ferrugineous; thorax ferrugineous, spine ob- 

 tuse, disk on each side with a broad black patch; elytra pitchy- 

 black, with a common discoidal patch, and the sutural margin 

 ferrugineous. L. .13. Illinois, Kansas, Pennsylvania. 



5. Z. consanguinea, sp. n. 



\erylike Z. variant, hwi longer, more deeph' colored, thorax 

 entirely red, elytra entirely black. L. .14. Illinois. Easily di.s- 

 tinguished l)y the elongate form. 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF 



SYNETA, Each. 



1. S. ferruginea (Germ), Nov. Act. Hal., i. C, p. 34 ; rubicttnda, Lac. Mon., i. 230, 2 



tripla Say, T. Acad., v. 3ill. 



Elongate, entirel}' ferruginous ; antennae infuscate, base pale ; 

 elytra with four elevated lines, the third only visible at the apex, 

 the second sharply costate ; interstices deeply punctate. L. ..30-.32 . 

 Lake Superior, Middle, and Western States. To this belongs 

 S. costala Newui. 



2. S. carinata (Mannh.), Lac. Mon., i. 228, 1. 



Larger than the preceding, more deeplj- punctate, all the el3'tral 

 lines sharply costate, color brown. L. .32-..33. Sitka, Vancouver, 

 Oregon. 



^ Posterior tibia largely dilated at the apex, with a hamate 

 process near the apex, of the length of the first joint of the tarsi. 



3. S. albida, Lee, Pac. R. Rep. p. 66. 



Pale ochreous, el^^tral lines hardly elevated, third indistinct. 

 L. .30-.32. Vancouver, Oregon. 



(^ Disk of thorax and suture of elytra black. (Suturalis Lee.) 

 This includes S. seriata Lee. as a variety. 



4. S. simplex, Lee, Pac. R. Rep., p. 66. 



Only one female from Oregon; this is very near S. ferruginea, 

 but the elevated lines are only visible at the base of the elytra. 



CRIOCEEIDES. 



Lema (Farr.) Lac. 



A. Elytra witli the ninth stria entire. 

 Elj'tra uuicolorous blue. 

 Thorax red. 



Hoad bituberculate, red. 



First joint of antennte, abdomen, and legs red. texana. 



Antt'imrc, al)domen, and legs black. brunnicolUs. 



Anlonna; and tibi;B black, abdomen red. cornutus. 



Head simple, thorax spotted with black. maculicollis. 



Head simple, black, thorax short. collaris. 



Tliora.K black. peninsuloe. 



Elytra more or less marked with testaceous. 



Head black, elytra blue with testaceous fascia. solani. 



Head red, elytra testaceous, suture and vitta black, nigroviitata. 

 Elytra blue, margin and basal spot testaceous. conjuncta. 

 Elytra testaceous, suture and marginal vitta black. 



trilineata. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



B. Elytra with the ninth stria interrupted. 



Elytra blue, thorax red. Sayi. 



El^'tra red, spotted wilh black. 



Larjjer, spots discoidal. S-jmnrfata. 



Smaller, spots common, sutural. albini. 



1. L. cornuta (Feb. 1801), Lac. Mon., i. p. 382. 



Red, elytra blue, knees, tibia?, tarsi, and untennre black. L. .22. 

 South Carolina, Leconte. 



2. L. texana, sp. n. 



Very near L. cornuta, but rather smaller ; head much less 

 strongl}"^ tuberculate ; first joint of antennae, scutellum, and legs 

 entirely red. L. .21. Texas, not rare. 



3. L. brunnicollis, Lac. Mon., i. p. 391. 



Also near L. cornuta, but smaller and in proportion broader ; 

 antennae, legs, and abdomen black. L. .18. Southern States. 



4. L. maculicollis, Lac. Mon., i. p. 392. 



Black, elytra blue ; thorax red, elongate, subc3dindrical, aluta- 

 ceous, with two fuscous vittte. L. .18. Southern States. 



5. L. collaris, Say, J. Acad., iii. 430. 



Black, thorax red, elytra black ; head roughly sculptured in 

 front ; thorax short, hardly constricted, impunctate ; elytra punc- 

 tate, striate shining. L. .20. Texas. 



Var. El^'tra blue, thorax faintly punctate, more constricted. 

 Illinois. 



6. L. peninsulae, sp. n. 



Entirely polished black, elj^tra steel-blue ; head deeply sculp- 

 tured, front with an impressed Y-like mark; thorax longer than 

 broad, constricted obliquely behind the middle, disk sparingly 

 punctate ; elytra seriate punctate, interstices very sparsely punctu- 

 late. L. .22. Lower California (Leconte). 



7. L. solani (Fab.), Lac. Mon., i. p. 400. 



Red, metasternum, legs, antennae, and head black; elytra blue; 

 margin and a medial fascia red; interstices very sparingly punc- 

 tulate. L. .25. Florida. 



8. L. conjuncta, Lac. Mon., i. p. 405. 



Red, antennae (except the first joint), tibiae, and tarsi black: 

 elytra blue, margin and a small basal spot red. L. .24. Florida. 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This probably has a less developed form. 



9. L. trilineata (01iv.)> Lac. Mon., i. p. 40. 



Red, antennjE (first joint excepted), tibiae, and tarsi black; thorax 

 with two black spots; elytra with the suture and a submarginal 

 vitta black. L. .25. Atlantic region, Mexico. 



Var. Elytral bands very narrow {trioirgata^ Lee). 



Var. Elytral bands more or less confluent. 



10. L. nigrovittata (Guer.), Lac. Mon., i. p. 421. 



Closely allied to L. trilineata, but with the head and metaster- 

 num black; the legs are irregularly black and red; thorax with two 

 lateral black spots. L. .25. Arizona, California. 



11. L. 6-punctata (Oliv.), Lac. Mon., i. p. 486. 



Ferruginous red, legs and antennoe black (base of femora and 

 first joint of antennae red) ; sides of metasternum black, elytra 

 each with the humeral angle, a spot near the suture before the 

 middle and another laj^er at 3-4 black. L. .24. Southern States. 



Var. Spots confluent on the suture, humeral angles paler 

 {ej)hippiata, Lac). L. .20. 



Var. Spots confluent on the suture {alhini, Lac). 



12. L. Sayi, sp. n. 



Ferrugineous red, antenna and legs black; elj'tra blue; head 

 with a small black fovea on the vertex ; thorax elongate, rather 

 sharply constricted, thickly'- puuctulate, disk black; el3'tra punc- 

 tate striate, 9th stria narrowly interrupted ; femora clavate, pu- 

 bescent. L. .24. Southern States. 



L. melanocephala, Say (J. Acad , v. 294), has not j'et been 

 identified; the head and abdomen are black, thorax and elytra 

 testaceous red. 



L. signalieornis, Chev. {intermedia., Guer.) is given in the" Mel- 

 sheimer Catalogue, and is common in Mexico. It is rather like 

 trilineata., but the antennae are pale, with joints 6-8 black. 



CrioceriH asparagi (Linn.) has been introduced, and occurs in 

 many parts of the United States, and may be readil}' known by its 

 coloring; bluisli-grecn, thorax red, with two green spots, elytra 

 with four lateral yellow spots confluent with a yellow margin. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



MELOLONTHIDES. 



A. Tarsal claws simple. 



B. Anterior coxas contiguous. Anomcea. 



Bb. Anterior coxte separated by the presternum. 



C. Elytra striate punctate. Euryscopa. 



Cb. Elytra irregularly punctate. Coscinoptera. 



Ao. Claws appendiculate. 



B. Anterior coxae contiguous. Babia. 



Bb. Anterior coxae separate. 



C. Elytra without epipleural lobes. Urodera. 



Cb. Elytra with large epipleural lobes. Saxinis. 



I have elsewhere exposed the reasons that induce me to adopt 

 Geoflfroy's name for the t3'pical genus of this subfamily, which 

 has at least tvventy years of priority. 



Anomcea, Lac. 



1. A. laticlavia (Forst., 1771), Lac. Mon., ii. p. 132, 2. 



Elongate, cylindrical, fulvous, obsoletely punctulate, subopaque ; 

 el^'tra and legs unicolorons or sulfused with black. L. .30-.32. 

 Middle and Southern States, Texas. 



Lacordaire (1. c. p. 137) has separated C. mutabilis on some 

 Texan and Mexican specimen with tlie thorax and a fascia across 

 the elytra black ; but I cannot see any structural differences. 



2. C. militaris, Lee. Pr. Acad. 1858, 83. 



Black, cylindric, pubescent beneath ; thorax unequal, sparsel}^ 

 punctate; el3'tra blue-green, with a large triangular humeral, and 

 a round subapical spot red, coarsely subseriate punctate. L. .18. 

 Texas (Leconte). Allied to the C. humerigei'a, Lac, which, hovv- 

 ever, wants the apical spot. 



Babia, Chev. 



1. B. biguttata (Olir., 1790), Lac. Mon., ii. p. 428, 5. 



Oblong, black, shining, elytra coarsely punctate striate, inter- 

 stices coarsely and sparsely punctate, each with a humeral and 

 subapical spot red. L. .14-.16. Southern States, Texas, Mexico. 



B. pulla, Lac. (1. c. p. 429) is a variety with the thorax very 

 finely punctulate. 



B. teb'aspilota.^ Lee. is a depauperated specimen from the Colo- 

 rado desert. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Urodera, Lac. 



1. U. crucifera, Lac. Mon., ii. p. 454, fi. 



Cylindiical, polished, black, thickly clothed with white pubes- 

 cence beneath; head and thorax impiinctate; elytra fulvous; 

 verv li^htl}' punctate striate, intervals smooth, with a sinuous 

 medial fascia black, running along to the apex. L. .30. New 

 Mexico, Arizona. 



Saxinis, Lac. 



1. S. omogera, Lac. Mon., ii. p. 482. 



Cylindrical, short, blue-green, pubescent beneath; thorax 

 coarsely and rather closel}^ punctate : elytra with a humeral spot 

 red, strongly and confusedly punctate striate, interstices very 

 sparingly punctate. L. .10-.14. Texas, Southern States, 



2. S. saucia, Lee. Pac. R. Rep. p. 66. 



Much larger than S. omogera^ elytra confusedly rugulose, thorax 

 very sparingly punctate, shining. L. .26-.30. 

 This is evidently the Clythra bisignata, Walk. 



EuRYscoPA, Lac. 



L E. Lecontii, pp. n., scapnlaris, | Lee. 



Elongate, attenuate behind ; head, thorax, and undeV side densely 

 pubescent ; el^-tra shining, deeply punctate striate (punctures 

 large, closel}'^ packed), intervals smooth; humeral angles with an 

 oblique red vitta. L. .24. Texas boundary'. 



This cannot easily be identified with E. scapulans, Lac, as 

 the thorax is coarsely and strongly punctate. 



2. E. vittata, Lee. J. Acad., iv. 26. 



Differs from E. Lecontii b^^the punctuation of the thorax, which 

 is fine and sparse ; the elytral vitta is curved and prolonged nearly 

 to the apex. L. .26, Texas (Pope). 



COSCINOPTERA, LcC. 



1. C. seneipennis (Lee), J. Acad., iv. 26. 



Head, thorax, and under surface pubescent ; elytra brassy, gla- 

 brous, deeply subseriate, inipunctate ; thorax finel}'^ and closely 

 punctate, median line smooth. L. .26, Texas. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 29 



Closely allied to G. crihrata^ Lac, but he does not mention the 

 red labriim, and describes the legs and antennte as red. 



2. C. aenescens, sp. n. 



Black, pubescent, above brassy, labrum bordered with yellow, 

 thorax closely punctate, medial line smooth; elytra closely and 

 evidently punctate, punctures arranged rather in rows ; tibia? pice- 

 ous. L. .18, Southern States. 



3. C. axillaris, Lee, Tr. Ent. Soc, 1868, p. 56. 



Cylindrical, narrow, brassy black, clothed with a whitish pubes- 

 cence; tliorax with the hind angles prominent, rather sparingly 

 evidently punctate, medial line hardly visible ; elytra coarsely 

 serially punctate, interstices sparsely punctate, humeral angle 

 fulvous. L. .12. Colorado (Leconte). 



4. C. mucorea (Lee), Pr. Acad., 1858, 8.3. 



Cylindrical, very densely clothed with whitish pubescence, 

 brassy; thorax rather sparingly punctate; elytra with the callus 

 red, striate punctate ; interstices transversely rugulose, the punc- 

 tures obsolete towards the apex. L. .21. California (Leconte). 



5. C. dominicana (Fab., 1801), Lac. Mon., ii. p. 515, 6. 



Black, oblong, clothed sparingly with a whitish pubescence ; 

 labrum yellow; thorax closely punctate, median line smooth; 

 elytra closel}' punctate. L. .20-.22. Southern and Western States. 

 G. franciscana, Lee, does not differ specifically. 



6. C. subfasciata, Lee, Tr. Ent. Soc, 1868, p. 56. 



Cylindrical, black, labrum black, sparsely pubescent above ; 

 thorax evidently not thickl}' punctate, median line obsolete ; hind 

 angles prominent; elytra shining, coarsely and sparingly punc- 

 tate ; humeral angles with a large quadrate red spot. L. .25-.30. 

 Arizona, Lee. 



Var. Elytra with a basal fascia fulvous. 



7. C. major, sp. n. 



Yer}^ similar to G. subfasciata, but much larger, more convex; 

 hind angles of thorax not prominent, the basal spot is large, but 

 the callus is black ; the punctuation also is a little closer. L. .42. 

 Texas. 



8. C. vittigera, Lee, Pr. Acad., 1S61, p. .357. 



Very distinct by the Clytra-like form parallel; thorax short, 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



unequal sparingl}' and deeply- punctate; elj-tva coarsely and 

 rather sparingly punctate, each with an equally broad fulvous 

 vitta from the shoulder to the apex, where it recurves to meet the 

 suture. L. .21. Kansas (Leconte). 



CRYPTOCEPHALIDES. 



A. Antennae short, dentate received in grooves. Chlamydini. 



B. Antennae v.Mth joints 5-11 dentate. Chlnmyn. 



Bb. Antennae with joints 6-11 dentate. Exeraa. 



Ah. Antennae tolerably long, free. Cryptocephalini. 



B. Thorax not margined or impressed at base. 



C. Antennae thickened, prosternum broader than long. Monachui. 

 Cb. Antennae long, filiform, prosternum long. Cryptocephalus. 

 Bb. Thorax with an impressed margin along the base. 



C. Prosternum flat. Griburius. 



Cb. Prosternum grooved, pointed behind. PacTiybrachyi. 



Chlamys, Knoch. 



A. Legs black, above metallic. plicata. 



B. Legs red, above black. foveolata. 



I am unable to separate C. assimilis, Kl'ig? a"cl C- polycocco, 

 Lac, from G. x>licata. Of C. tuberculata, Klug, I have seen no 

 specimens. 



Exema, Lac. 



A. Metallic, subcupreous. gibber. 



B. Black or varied with fulvous. cojispersa. 



Mannerheim's connpersa is evidently identical with E. dispar., 

 Lac, which is a most variable little species. 



MoNACiius, Chev. 



A. Steel blue ; legs concolorous. i ^"P<''^"*^'>^ 



( seminulum. 

 Ab. Steel blue ; legs red. 



B. Thorax with a basal row of deep punctures. auritus. 



Bb. Thorax red with no basal punctures. , thoracica. 



I am unable to distinguish M. alei; ITald., and 3T. aenmmhim , 

 SufTr. T liave not seen; it is quite small (f lin.), clypeus, basal 

 joint of antennfc, and anterior tibiaj reddish ; the punctuation is 

 much as in sajmiw/m. Suff. Tiinn. Ent. xii. 344, 4. Georgia. 



M. affinis^ llald. is the 9 of M. auritus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



M. Thoracica, sp. n. 



Veiy like M. saponadis in form, size, and sculpture ; but the 

 head, thorax, and legs entirely' red, the thorax also is devoid of 

 the basal line of punctures. L. .16. South Carolina, Florida 

 (Leconte). 



31. guerini, Perbosc, has been found in Sonora, and is easily 

 known by the red thorax with two green spots, and clj'tra blue 

 with a red band. 



Cryptocephalus, Geoff. 



So many species of this genus have been described by Suffrian 

 that I am unable to make a proper table of the species. I hope, 

 liowever, in time, to get a good series revised by him. Tlie gi'oups 

 into which he divides the genus are hardlj" satisfactory, and I 

 have used the J" characters in preference. 



A. First ventral segment with a large plate produced into two 

 acute diverging points behind; prosternum with an acute tubercle 

 between the coxjb. Here belong C. lituratus, Fabr. (from which 

 I doubt the propriety of separating G. lativittis, S. vittatus), C. 

 congestus, Fabr., for7nosus, Mels., detriius, Oliv., sellatus^ Suff. ; 

 also C. sulphur ipennis, Mels., areolatiif^, Suff., maminifer, Newm. 

 egenus, Suff., which appear to me doubtful. 



B. Prosternum with the anterior edge carinate or produced in 

 the J". 



C. Prosternum alike in both sexes. 



G. viUicollis, Lee. appears to me not to differ from G. leucomelas, 

 Suff. 



G. mucoreus, Lee. is very distinct by its pubescent upper 

 surface. 



G. schreibersii, Suff. is also very distinct by the closely rugiilose 

 thorax. 



In the group of very small species at the end of the genus I 

 have recognized G. catariua., Suff., G. aur'atus, Fab. (witli wliieli 

 I unite G. asneolus, Lee, G. chalcojiotus, Mann., G. vir^idis, Hald.) 

 C. afomuH, Suff., G. cJilorizans, nanus, lusciis, pallidicornis, re- 

 main unknown to me. C. gracilis rests on the original Fabrician 

 example of G. parvulus, which is identical with the European 

 species ; as this is the only specimen, and the only species common 

 to the two countries, it seems to me better to omit it. G. Isems 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hald. is probably only G. avratus or C. atomus ; the type is not 

 now extant. C. jJumilus, Hald. is closely allied to C. nanus. 



Griburius, Hald. (Scolochrus, Suff.) 



A. Legs yellow. 



B. Ahove black, clj-tra \^itli orange spots. scufellariK. 



Bh. Above yellow, with black spots. larcatus. 



Ah. Legs black and white, elytra with the suture white. Montezximm. 



Ac. Legs entirely black, elytra with two red spots. Lecontii. 



G. speciosus, Lee. appears to me to agree with the description 

 of Scolochrus Montezumee.^ Suffr. G. larvatus may be a pale 

 form of G. scutellaris, but the thorax is less punctate. 



G. Lecontii, sp- n. 



Black, clothed beneath with a gray pubescence; head with the 

 clj'peus and a large triangular frontal mark whitish-yellow; tho- 

 rax shining, with scattered deep punctures and a few minute ones 

 intermixed; base deeply impressed ; scutellura punctate; elytra 

 with the basal half and sometimes an apical spot dull red, deeply 

 punctate striate, the stria? near the suture confused, interstices 

 rujrulose. L. .16. Texas. 



o 



Pachybrachys, Chevr. 



This genus is extremel}^ rich in species and ver3' variable ; 

 Suffrian has described many entirely unknown to me, some of 

 wiiich I cannot think will stand. One species from Lower Cali- 

 fornia appears to me entirely new. 



P. Xanti, ."p. n. 



Ochreous, cylindrical, ver}'^ slightly covered with short erect 

 hairs; head with a brown frontal dash, eyes not closel}' approxi- 

 mate in the J* ; thorax very long, nearly quadrate, witli a smooth 

 discoidal line and no basal impression, ochreous, irrorated with 

 brown, thick!}' covered with deep elongate punctures, interstices 

 faintly punctulate ; scutollum small ; elytra opaque, ochreous, the 

 punctures brown, serially disposed at the sides, irregulail}' towards 

 the suture ; beneath pul)escent, metasternum nearly black. L. .10 

 -.12. Lower California (Leconte). 



(-f anterior tibia? curved. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33 



B. 



ETJMOLPIDES. 



Anterior coxpb globose, never transverse, third joint 



bilobed. 

 Pubescent or squamulate. 

 Thorax not margined at tlie sides. 



Prosternum separate from its episterna. 

 Snbquadrate, brown. 



Metallic, eyes with a deep groove above them. 

 Prosternum not separate from its episterna. 

 Thorax transverse, flattened. 

 Thorax cylindric. 

 Thorax margined. 



Elytra striate, sides of thorax denticulate. 

 Elytra punctate, thorax entire. 

 Glabrous. 



Thorax lobed behind the eyes, head immersed. 

 Claws appendiculate, elytra punctate. 



Thorax not margined at base, small, globose. 

 Thorax margined, oblong. 



Antennaj not long, heavily clubbed. 

 Antennae long, filiform. 

 Claws bifid ; elytra striate punctate. 

 Thorax not lobed behind the eyes. 



Second and third joints of antennse equal. 

 Head broad, not sulcate above the eyes. 

 Head rather narrow, with a groove round the 



Second joint of antennae shorter than the third. 



of tarsi deeply 



Adoxus. 

 Heteraspis. 



Xanthoma. 

 Fidia. 



Myochrous. 

 Glyptoscclis. 



Ghalcoparia. 



Clirysochus. 



Typophorus. 



Paria. 



Metaparia. 

 ejes. 



Metachroma. 

 Colasjns. 



Adoxus, Kirby (typ- vitis). 



A. vitis. (Linn.) 



Broad, snbquadrate ; head and thorax narrow ; black, tibiae and 

 antenna? with tlie club dark; elytra reddish-brown; surface 

 clothed with golden pubescence; thorax closely punctate; elytra 

 irregular!}' punctate (the translucent spots are arranged in rows, 

 but the real punctures are not so). L. .21. Middle States, Lake 

 Superior, Oregon, Europe. 



Fidia, Dej. (fyp. murina). 



I. F. murina. (Dej. Cat.) .<!p. n. 



Elongate, subcylindric; legs very long, entirely brownish-red 

 throughout and clotlied with a dense graj' pubescence; head and 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



thorax evidently not densely punctate, that with a smooth medial 

 line, this longer than broad, cylindric elytra deeply punctate 

 striate, interstices sparsely rugose, with a few deeper punctures. 

 L. .26. Middle and Southern States. 



^ metasternum and first ventral segment smooth in the middle; 

 second with a smooth rounded fovea, fifth with a transverse punc- 

 tate fovea. 



2. F. longipes (Mels.), Pr. Acad., iii. 169, 1; viticohis (Uhler.) Pr. Acad., vii. 418. 



Allied to the preceding, but smaller, black ; pubescence ash}' ; 

 base of femora and of antennne red ; head and thorax more densel}' 

 punctate ; that without median line. L. .24. Middle and Southern 

 States. 



J*. First ventral segment smooth in the middle. 



Xanthonia, Baly. (/yp- 10-notatus Say). 



1. X. 10-notatus, J. Acad., iii. 445. 



Subquadrate, scabrous, brownish-red, with a suberect brown 

 pubescence ; head and thorax densely punctate, the punctures 

 umbilicate; elytra confusedly densely punctate; interstices of 

 the puhctures shining ; marked with various indeterminate black 

 markings; underside black, opaque ; antennae pale-red. L. .12. 

 Atlantic region. 



Very variable, sometimes unicolorous testaceous. 



2. X. villosulus (Mels.), J. Acad., iii. p. 169, 2. 



Very closely allied to X. 10-nota(a, but uniformly testaceous ; 

 el^'tra substriate punctate. L. .13. Middle and Southern States. 

 Var. Entirely black above. 



Z. X. Stevensii, Baly, J. of Ent., ii. 151. 



Oblong, subcylindrical, fulvous, subnitidous, covered with fine 

 concolorous hairs; eyes and apex of jaws black. L. 1^ lin. 

 Canada. 



Head short, subrotundate, closelj'^ punctate ; epistoma concave, 

 face impressed ; thorax transverse ; elytra closely punctate, punc- 

 tures confused near the suture, arranged in striie on the disk. 



Heteraspis (Chev.), Lee. 



1. H. pubescens (Mels.), Pr. Acad., iii. 169, 3. 



Oblong, aMieo-cuprcous, sparsely clothed with a gray pubescence ; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



surHxce alutaceous; head little punctate, deeply foveolate; thorax 

 about as long as broad, si)arsely punctate ; sides more or less 

 transversly rugose ; elytra sparingly punctate, with traces of 

 seriate punctures, and a sutural stria evident behind ; base with 

 a reflexed margin; under side densely but obsolete!}' punctulate. 

 L. .13. Middle and Southern States. 



2. H. curtipennis (Mels.), I- c. n. 4. 



Much smaller; tliorax entirely rugose; eyes very prominent; 

 elytra more strongly punctate. L. .9. Middle and Southern 

 States. 



3. H, marcassita (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Closely resembling H. pvbescens, but the clypeus is deeply and 

 acutel}^ emarginate in front, with the lateral lobes also prominent; 

 the thorax is not rugose; the form is shorter, the elytra more 

 visibly striate, and the basal margin does not reach the scutellum. 

 L. .12-.13. Middle and Southern States. 



4. H. nebulosus, Leo. 



Also very near H. piihescens and with the clypeus truncate, but 

 the thorax is not rugose, but has smooth reliefs on the disk ; the 

 elytra are more evidently striate punctate ; the pubescence is 

 stronger and more marbled; the basal margin of the elytra is in- 

 complete. L. .13. Kansas, Iowa, and Wisconsin. 



5. H. smaragdulus, Lee. 



Apparently distinct by the uniform metallic green color, but 

 otherwise extremely close to H. nebulosus. 



Glyptoscelis, Lee. 



1. G. hirtus (Oliv.), Ent. vi. 96, p. 906, t. 1. f. 16. 



C3'lindrical, brilliant cupreous, tolerably thickly clothed with 

 a decumbent pubescence of white and brown hairs intermixed ; 

 thorax and elytra deeply and closely punctate, the sides of the 

 former suddenly narrowed towards the base. L. .35-.40. Middle 

 and Southern States, Oregon. 



This may be known by the parti-colored pubescence, and the 

 nearly bare scutellum. 



2. G. illustris, sp. n. 



Cylindric, of a brilliant burnished copper color; very sparingly 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



pubescent, but the elytra with the base, margin, suture, and a 

 discal spot clothed with long white hairs; less closely punctate 

 than G. hirtus, and the sides of the tliorax gradually narrowed 

 to the base, L. .40-.41. California (Horn), Oregon (Walsinghara). 



Very distinct by the irregular pubescence. 



J* Last ventral segment with a deep smooth fovea. 



3. G. albidus, Lee, Proc. Acad. 1859, 81. 



Cylindrical, allied to G. hirhis, but rather densely clothed with 

 squamiform, pale hairs ; thOrax and elytra less closely punctate. 

 L. .30-.32. California. 



4. G. barbatus (Say), J. Acad., v. 296. 



Shorter and stouter than the other species ; thorax distinctly 

 narrower tlian the elytra, strongly and closelv })nnctate, as in G. 

 hhius ; surface densely clothed vvith uniform brown hairs. L. ..30. 

 Pennsylvania. 



5. G. squamulatus, sp. n. 



Cylindric; thorax subelongate, sides straiglit; punctuation 

 rather open ; surface densely clothed above and below with whitish 

 elongate scales. L. .30. California (Leconte) ; Oregon (Walsing- 

 ham). 



6. G. crypticus, Say, J. Acad., iii. 449. . 



Form and size of G. hirtiis, more sparinglj'- punctate ; clothed 

 throughout with a whitish subsquamiforra pubescence ; claws much 

 less strongly bifid. L. .30. Atlantic region. 



(^ Elytra mucronate at the apex; last ventral segment with a 

 smooth fovea. 



7. G. alternatus, sp. n. 



Very similar to G. crypticus^ l)ut with the pubescence on the 

 elytra denser on the alternate interstices, so as to give a faint 

 striped appearance. Tliorax with the sides rounded. L. .37. 

 California (Ilorji). 



J* Elytra not mucronate; last ventral segment with a smooth 

 fovea. 



8. G. cuprascens (Lee), Pr. Acad. 1858, 85. 



Sul)quadrate, shining, cupreous, rather sparingU' clothed with 

 short erect hairs; upper surface evidently and not closelj'^ punc- 

 tate, interstices of the punctures shining; thorax subtransverse, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



jiiul sides oblique ; front margin not produced. L. .19. California 

 (Leconte). 



9. G. smaragdulus (Lee), Pac. R. Rep. p. 67. 



Yery closely allied to G. cuprascens, but greenish-blue, very 

 shortly and slightly pubescent; thorax always more finely and 

 more*densely punctate than the elytra. L. .17-.19. California 

 (Leconte). 



These two species have the appearance of Heieraspis, but agree 

 with Glyptoscelis in the punctate elj^tra, lobed thorax, etc. 



Myochrous (Chev.), Lee. 



1. M. denticollis (Say), J. Acad., iii. 448. 



Subelongate, subjieneous, densely clothed with easily abraded 

 gray scale-like hairs; antennal club infuscate, legs subseneous ; 

 head and thorax very densely and not strongly punctate, opaque, 

 subscabrous, the latter broader than long; front angles deflexed, 

 sides tridentate; elytra with about sixteen rows of closely packed 

 deepljMmpressed punctures; interstices hardly visible; under side 

 evidently punctate. L. .20-.22. Texas, Southern and Western 

 Slates. 



2. M. longulus, Lee. Pr. Acad. 1858, 86. 



More elongate, parallel; thorax longer than broad, sparingly 

 punctate; elytra punctate striate; interstices as broad as the punc- 

 tures ; surface densely clothed with yellowish scale-like hairs. L. 

 .20. California. 



3. M. squamosus, Lee. CoL Kans. p. 24. 



Form of M. denticollis, but thorax rather lonsrer than broad . 

 sides not denticulate ; surface closelj^ and densely rugulose; elytra 

 with thirteen punctate striie; punctures not deep; interstices 

 closely punctulate; surface covered with short rounded scales. 

 L. .20 Kansas, Colorado. 



Chrysochus, Chev. 



I. C. auratus, Fab. Syst. EL, i. p. 419. 



Oblong, convex, brilliant polished green ; elytra golden-green 

 varied with coppery ; head and thorax XQvy sparsely coarsely 

 punctate, surface covered with minute sparse punctures; elytra 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



finely and irregularly punctate; A'cntral surface and thoracic 

 epipleurae hardly punctate. L. .40. Atlantic region, Arizona. 



2. C. cobaltinus, Lee. Pac. R. Rep., p. 07. 



Extremely close to the preceding, but entirely of a deep-blue 

 color or blue-green; clypeus closelj'^ punctate. L. .40-.41, Cali- 

 fornia, and Oregon. 



Three other species are described hy the Rev. T. A. Marshall 

 (J. Linn. Soc, viii. p. 449). 



C. californicus, bluish-green (not dark-blue), thorax broader, 

 more gibbous at the sides. L. 8 lin. (= cobaltinus, Lee.) 



G. tenibricosus, black tinged with blue, thorax not gibbous or 

 dilated at the sides. L. 5 lin. (? cobatinus var.) 



C. cantaneus^ chestnut-colored, beneath testaceous; thorax 

 transverse, very slightly dilated, denselj^ covered with two sorts 

 of punctures ; elytra substriate punctate, (immaturus.) 



Typophorus, Chev. 



Thorax lobed behind the eyes, head broad, antenna" distant, no 

 ocular sulci, antennae long filiform, second joint verj' short, third 

 longer than the fourth, posterior tibiae produced at the apex. 



1. T. tricolor (Fab.), Ent. Syst., i. 316, 41: viridis, Fab. Syst. EL, i. 413, 8; 



picipes, 01. 



Oblong, sub-parallel, above green or bronzed, beneath brown, 

 legs and antennae pale-red ; head closel3' punctate, clypeus raised 

 on a level above the front ; thorax closely punctate, sides very 

 little rounded,, slightly explanate, disk with a smooth space to- 

 wards the base; el3tra irregularly rather coarsely punctate; under 

 side scarcelj' punctulate, thoracic epipleune closely punctate. 

 L. .20-24. Middle and Southern States. J* Apex of elytra 

 slightly mucronate, fifth segment foveolate. 



2. T. metasterualis, sp. n. 



Very similar to the preceding, but elytra more sparsel}' punc- 

 tate, subcastate ; ventral segments and metasternum closely and 

 deeply punctate. L. .22. Illinois. 



3. T. oregonensis, .=p. n. 



A^ery closely allied to T. tricolo?-, but distinct b}^ the well-marked 

 hind angles of the thorax, which is also more sparsel}' and more 

 strongly punctate; the ventral segment and metasternum are 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



also roughly punctate. L. .24. Oregon (Walsiugliani). The color 

 varies from blue to green or golden. 



Chalcoparia, g. n. 



Head dceplj' immersed, antennae distant, eyes not emai'ginate, 

 no ocular sulci ; thorax hardly lobed behind the eyes, antennae 

 with joints 2-4 equal, short; tibiae not produced at the apex, 

 claws appendiculate. This genus is formed for a small globose 

 species having the aspect of Colaspis ii^istis, but the thorax is not 

 margined behind, a character unique in the N. American Eumol- 

 pidde. 



1. C. globosa, Oliv. Ent., vi. p. 893. 



Globose, shining, cupreous ; antennse, four anterior legs, and 

 posterior tibite red ; head sparingl}'^ punctate, front impressed ; 

 thorax transverse, deeply emarginate for the head, evidently 

 punctate, sides slightly rounded, finely margined, base immargi- 

 nate with a row of punctures along the edge ; elytra deeply 

 irregularly punctate, punctures sometimes subseriate. L. .10. 

 Middle and Southern States, Texas. 



Paria, Lee. 



Eyes bordered by a deeply impressed base ; posterior tibi 

 broadly emarginate at tip, claws bifid ; thorax lobed behind tlie 

 eyes ; elytra striate punctate ; antennae with second joint shorter 

 than third. 



1. P. 6-notata (Say), J. Acad., iii. 445. 



Oblong, short, yellowish-red, ventral segments and three spots 

 on eacli el^-tron black ; head coarsely punctate ; thorax margined, 

 sides slightly rounded, sparselj'^ punctate ; el3'tra deeply punctate 

 striate, interstices smooth, striae obsolete before the apex. 

 L. .12-.16. Atlantic region, extending also to California. 

 Var. Q-guttata, Lee. Pr. Acad., 1858, 86. 



Elytra with the two lower spots united. 

 Var. %-notata (Say), 1. c, 446. 



Thorax black, elytra with the spots much larger. 

 Var. Gilvipes (Dej.). 

 Entirely black, legs pale. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Many intermediate forms occur, especially one "with the thorax 

 and scutellar region red, the rest black. 



2. p. aterrima (Oliv.), Enc. Metli., 6, 913. 



Extremely like the preceding, and similarly' variable, but the 

 head is much less punctate, thorax less punctate and minutely 

 alutaceous. L. .12-.lfi. 



The dark varieties seem more common than the pale ones in this 

 species. P. opacicollis, Lee, seems to be a small pale specimen 

 with unusually ojDaque thorax. 



3. P. laevicollis, !=p. n. 



Also extremely like P. 6-notafa, but head and thorax scarcely 

 visibly and very sparingly punctulate ; elytra with two spots, one 

 basal and one larger medial. L. .15. Pennsylvania, AViscousin. 



4. P. pumila, Lee. Col. Trans., p. 23. 



Entirely 3'ellowisli-red, shape of P. Q-nofafa, but much smaller; 

 thorax smooth, elytra oI)soletel_y seriate punctate, the punctures 

 coarse but very sparse ; ocular grooves produced in front so as to 

 meet on the front above the clypeus. L. .10. Kansas (Leconte). 



5. P. viridicyanea, sp u. 



Bluish-green (or rarely aeneous) ; antennae red, club infuscate; 

 bend foveolate, ocular sulci deep ; second joint of antennae dis- 

 tinctly shorter than third ; thorax alutaceous, sparingl}^ punctate 

 subquadrate, narrow in front, anterior angles deflexed, sides near- 

 ly straight; elytra punctate, striate, smooth. L. .30. Middle 

 and Southern States, Illinois, Mexico. 



This si)ccies is a little anomalous, but the ocular sulci and 

 thoracic lobes clearly belong here. 



Metaparia, g. n. 



Head broad, antennae distant, eyes emarginate, not bordered 

 hy a groove ; deeply inserted in the thorax which is not lobed be- 

 liind the eyes ; antennae with joints 2-4 equal, claws ap[)endiculate, 

 tibijt dentate at tip. 



1. M. clytroides, sp. n. 



Oblong, parallel, green, antennae and legs red; surface alutaceous; 

 head very sparingly and obsoletely punctulate, front impressed, 

 vertical ; thorax transverse, produced in front over the head, sides 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41' 



oblique, rounded, evidently (disk more sparingly) punctate; scu- 

 tellum alutaceous ; elytra irregularly punctate ; under side and 

 epipleurae nearly smooth. L. .15 Texas. 



Metachroma (Clievr.) (fyp. quercata, Fab.) 



Antennfe with the second and third joints equal, fourth as long as the 

 fifth ; posterior tibise broadly emarginate at tip ; eyes bordered by a deep 

 impression. 



1. M. angustalum, sp. n. 



Narrow, parallel, black, base of antennje, legs, and upper sur- 

 face 3^ellow ; head shining, sparsely punctate, postocular sulci 

 faint, medial line impressed ; thorax broader than long, sparingly 

 punctate, anterior angles not auriculate ; scutellurn alutaceous, 

 with two or three impressed punctures ; elj'tra punctate striate, 

 the first three regular, the others rather confused, especially to- 

 wards the apex ; ventral segments sparingly and obsoletely punc- 

 tate. L. .23. Missouri, Illinois, L. Superior, Kansas. 



J* Yentral segments concave, first with a small acute tubercle 

 on the apical margin in the middle. 



Var. Thorax more or less suff'used with black. 



Var. El3-tra black, margins narrowlj^ pale. 



Vai^. Elytra entirely black, thorax and scutellurn red. 



2. M. californicum, sp. n. 



Subelongate parallel, reddish-brown, shining; head strongly 

 and rather closelj'^ punctate, median line impressed, ocular sulci 

 not converging; thorax slightly produced in front, sides acutely 

 reflexed, slightly rounded, disk sparingly, sides closely punctate ; 

 elytra regularly striate punctate, interstices very finely and spar- 

 ingly punctulate, eighth broad. L. .18. California (Horn). 



3. M. ustum, Lee. Pr. Acad., 1858, 85. 



Brownish-red varied with paler ; head evidently punctate, cly- 

 peus with tlie sides reflexed, broadlj' emarginate, labrum promi- 

 nent, trilobed ; thorax broader than long, evidently more closely 

 punctate, sides rounded, anterior angles auriculate ; el3'tra strong- 

 ly punctate striate, the punctures obsolete towards the apex, the 

 striae confused externally. L. .23-.24. Texas (Leconte). 



4. M. dubiosum (Say), J. Acad., iii. 447; sutnrale, Lee. Pr. Acad., 1858, 85. 



Black, legs pale, knees broadly infuscate, head nearl}^ smooth, 

 two frontal spots, a fine raised middle line on the front ; thorax 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



broadertlian long, sides much deflexed, rounded, narrowed behind, 

 evidently punctate; elytra red, suture broadly black; striate 

 punctate, ten striae visible at the base; the sixth interstice with 

 a few punctures, eighth broad, with a supplementary stria inclosed 

 in it. L. .13-.22. Atlantic region, Texas. 



^ Last ventral segment with a smooth medial line. 



5. M. interruptum (Say), J. Acad., iii. 448. 



Oblong, reddish-brown (varying from yellowish-red to black 

 beneath) ; head coarsely punctate, labrum prominent, hardlj' tri- 

 dentate in front ; thorax broader than long, disk sparinglj^, sides 

 closely punctate; front angles auriculate, sides strongly rounded, 

 hind angles A'ery obtuse, color red, with the discal third red 

 or black ; scutellum alutaceous with a few visible punctures ; 

 eh'tra yellowish-red (or with an interrupted dorsal vitta and the 

 suture black), punctate striate, the external strioe quite confused, 

 interstices irregularly and very sparingly puuctulate; ventral seg- 

 ments sparingly punctate and pubescent, hind angles of thoracic 

 epipleurae punctate. L. .22. Kansas (Leconte). 



6. M. peninsulare, sp- n. 



Near M. ustun\ in color and shape, but thorax closely and 

 densely punctate, head coarsely punctate, the tubercles above the 

 antennte but little marked ; thorax with the sides steeply deflexed, 

 broadly rounded ; scutellum alutaceous, with four or five punc- 

 tures; elytra punctate striate, the striae as in suturale; thoracic 

 epipleura3 punctate at the hind angles. L. .20. California (Le- 

 conte). 



Closely allied to the preceding, but distinct from all by the 

 densely punctate thorax, fi'om suturale and ustum by the punc- 

 tate epipleura?, from interruptum by the regular strire. 



7. M. quercatum (Fabr.), Syst. El., i. 507, pnnctkolle, Leo. Pr. Acad., 1858, p. 85. 



Reddish-brown or black, variable ; head almost smooth, front 

 even ; thorax densel}'^ rugoscly punctate, sides steeply deflexed, 

 strongly rounded ; elytra finely alutaceous, rather obsoletely and 

 irregularly punctate striate; thoracic epipleurjc smooth. L. .12- 

 .20. Middle and Southern States, Texas. 



Olivier's description of C. quercata shows that it refers to this 

 insect. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



8. M. vicinum {Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Depressed, subparallel, rather like M. augustatum ; brownish be- 

 neath, antennjB and legs pale yellowish-red ; head piceous, pale in 

 front, evidently punctate, front even ; thorax piceous, rather 

 coarsel}^ and closely punctate, sides hardly deflexed and but 

 little rounded ; elytra smooth, rather regularly punctate striate, 

 margins brown. L. .12. South Carolina. 



9. M. marginale (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Allied to M. vicinum in color and form, but the ocular sulci meet 

 across the front, which is evidently punctate and opaque; thorax 

 transverse, sides strongly rounded, but not much deflexed, finely 

 alutaceous, closely punctate; scutellum black; elytra tolerably 

 regularly punctate striate, margins pitchy. L. .16. North Caro- 

 lina, Kansas. 



10. M. floridanum, sp. n. 



Oblong subparallel depressed, entirely testaceous, surface alu- 

 taceous ; head with the ocular sulci well marked, meeting in the 

 middle, and with a short impressed medial line ; thorax finely, 

 obsoletely, and sparingly punctulate, sides not strongly rounded; 

 elj'tra regularly punctate striate, eighth interstice broad, inclos- 

 ing two small strige. L. .18. Florida (Doubleday), 



Distinct b}' the finely punctulate thorax and alutaceous sculpture. 



11. M. pallidum (Say), J. Acad., iii. 446. 



Oblong, testaceous red ; head as in M. floridanum ; thorax shin- 

 ing, evidently and tolerably closely punctate, sides rather de- 

 flexed, strongly rounded ; elytra regularly striate as in M. flori- 

 danum. L. .12-.13. North Carolina (Zimmerman). 



12. M. laevicolle (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Oblong, entirely testaceous, and closely allied to M. jmlliduin; 

 but front even, head and thorax smooth, shining, the latter more 

 produced in front, less transverse, sides rounded. L. .11. North 

 Carolina (Zimmerman). 



13. M. pellucidum (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Allied to M. leevicoUe, with which it agrees in the less trans- 

 verse more deflexed thorax; head smooth, sulci deep, meeting in 

 the middle, medial line impressed ; thorax shining, sparingly 

 punctulate; elytra finely punctate striate, strias obsolete beyond 

 the middle. L. .11. North Carolina (Zimmerman). 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



14. M. laterale (Zimm. MSS.), sp- n. 



This little species is testaceous, tbe elytra, however, have a 

 black subtriangular spot on the external margin; the head is 

 sulcate across the front, but with no medial line; the thorax is 

 made as in M. pellucidus, but is a little shorter, though the sides 

 are similarl}' rounded. L. .11. North Carolina, Kansas. 



[These species of Metachroma are ver}'- hard to separate accu- 

 ratel}', but will, I believe, be found eventually to be really dis- 

 tinct ; they are, as far as I am aware, rare in collections.] 



CoLASPis, Fabr. 



1. C. favosa (Say), J. Acad., iii. 448. 



Entirel}^ metallic blue or green; antennae j'ellowish, red at the 

 base; legs black or brownish; head sparingly punctate; anten- 

 nal tubercles smooth, coppery ; eyes emarginate ; thorax rather 

 transverse, sides broadly rounded, reflexed, somewhat explanate; 

 base rounded, thicklj' and deeply (disk more sparingly) punctate; 

 scutellum smooth, elytra deeply and closely multiseriate punc- 

 tate ; ventral segments alutaceous, hardly punctate, epipleurae of 

 the prothorax punctate. L. .23-.25. 



Southern and Western States. Purple varieties also occur. 



2. C. brunnea (Fab.), Suppl. 94, 4; snilla, Fab., Sys. El., i. 417, 24; lurida, 



Olir. Ent., vi. 892 j flavida. Say, Long's Exp., ii. 295. 



Entirely ochreous or testaceous ; head and thorax as in C. 

 favosa^ except that the sides of the latter are not so broadly 

 reflexed ; elytra with eight smooth subcostate interstices, the 

 punctures between them sometimes uniseriate, and at others 

 irregular or triseriate; thoracic epipleurge punctate. L. 23. At- 

 lantic region. 



Var. cosfipennis. Head and thorax metallic green; elytra 

 brown with four yellow costate interstices. 



Every lead can be found between these extremes. 



3. C praetexta, Say, J. Acad., iii. p. 442. 



Sliapc of C. favosa, above dark copper color, beneath brown; 

 legs and antennae ferruginous ; head sparsel}' punctate, front 

 channelled, antennal tubercles smooth, nearly united across the 

 middle; thorax as in C. /auosa, but less punctate ; elytra irregu- 

 larly and sparsely punctate; punctures sometimes subseriate 

 behind; epipleuris nearly smooth. L. .22-.24. Atlantic region; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



on the myrtle (according to Sa}-). This cannot, I think, be the 

 G. picipe.H^ Oliv., for the tliorax tliere is fine!}' punctate and the 

 legs obscure ; it was probably Tijpojphorus tricolor. 



4. C. arizonae, sp. n. 



Oblong, ovate; reddish-brown, elj'tra red; head rugosely punc- 

 tate; clypeus nearly smooth, emarginate; antennae very distant; 

 thorax transvei'se, sides but little rounded, rather broadly expla- 

 nate, coarsely rugosely punctate ; elytra rugosely punctate with 

 traces of smooth raised interstices; under side alutaceous, faintly 

 punctulate ; thoracic epipleurse with a few punctures. L. .32. 

 Ai'izona (Leconte). 



^ 5th segment triangularly emarginate. 



The anterior tibice are deeply sulcate for the tarsi and biden- 

 tate at the apex. 



6. C. nigrocyanea, sp. n. 



Ovate, bluish-black, beneath purplish ; thorax deeply and very 

 closely punctate ; the interstices irregularly broad and smooth ; 

 sides explanate, distinctly angulate in the middle ; epipleurae 

 deeply punctate ; elytra deeply and closely seriate punctate, the 

 rows somewhat geminate; ventral segments alutaceous, hardly 

 2Junctulate. L. .23. Arizona (Leconte). 



The unique specimen before me is unfortunately without a head. 



6. C. tristis, Oliv. Enc. Meth., v. 889; piltda, Germ. sp. nov., p. 567 ; ovata. Say, 

 J. Acad., iii. 442; convexa. Say, 1. c. p. 443; puiicticolUs, Say, 1. c, hume- 

 Talis ; Leo. Pr. Acad. 1858, p. 85. 



This is the most variable insect in sculpture and form that I 

 have seen ; but 1 am entirely unable to draw an}'^ lines between 

 the forms quoted above. It is convex, shortly ovate ; antennae 

 comparatively short ; last five joints distinctl}' thickened, base 

 yellowish ; the head is finely and sparingly)- punctate ; thorax 

 subtransverse, sides margined, rounded, hind angles prominent, 

 rectangular; base margined with a row of punctures inside the 

 margin ; disk variously punctate, sometimes with close rather 

 elongate punctures, or sparsely and rather finely punctate; elytra 

 either deeply irregularly punctate, or more finely and subseriate 

 punctate ; the rows geminate, leaving irregular smooth inter- 

 stices, humeral callus always prominent ; legs black or red ; epi- 

 pleura3 punctate or almost smooth. L. .16-.18. Atlantic region. 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



CHRTSOMELIDES. 



Anterior coxal cavities closed, metasternum very short. Timarcha. 



Anterior coxal cavities open. 



Post, epi sterna elongate triangular, metasternum with a post coxal line 

 following the margin. 

 Claws simple. 



Thorax margined at base. 



Tarsi with the 3d joint entire. Chrysomela. 



Tarsi with the 3d joint emarginate or bilobed. 



Gastrophyna. 

 Thorax immarginate. 



Prosternum produced behind. Prasocuris. 



Tibiae excavated at the apex. Entomoscelii. 



Claws dentate. 



Tibiffi produced at apex. Oonioctena. 



Tibiae simple, 3d joint of tarsi bifid. Phyllodecta. 



Post, episterna parallel, post coxal line oblique, cutting off the external 

 angle of the metasternum. Plagiodera. 



1. Timarcha, Meg. 



1. T intricata, HaUl. Proc. Phil., vi. 363. (1854.) 

 T. intertexta^ Hald. is only a variety. 



2. T. cerdo, Stal., 1. c, p. 8, 2. 



Western America (Deyrolle.) Differs by being smaller, nar- 

 rower, and with a bronzed color; the thorax also appears to be 

 equally punctate. 



This subfamily has been carefully studied first b^' Mr. Rogers 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy for 1856, p. 29, and lately by 

 C. Still in a quarto extract from the Transactions of the Swedisli 

 Academy. Mr. Rogers' paper was also translated and revised by 

 Suffrian (Stett. Ent. Zeit. xix., p. 237, 1858). Hence I have 

 merelj' given tables of the species with remarks where necessary. 



2. Chrysomela. 



Last joint of palpi small, trnnrate. 



^Mcsoslernum produced in front. Lahidomera. 



Mesosternum simple. Myocoryna. 



Last joint of palpi dilated. 



Claws aiiprnxiiiiate. daw joint dentate beneath. Zygogramma. 



Claws distant, claw joint simple. 



Thorax not margined. Calltgrapha. 



Thorax thickly margined. Chrysomela. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



A. LABIDOMERA, Chevr. 



1. C. clivicoUis, Kirby. Faun, B. A., iv. 213. trimaculata, Fab. (nee. Linn., Syst , 

 p. .312). 



G. Bogersii, Lee. appears to me to be simply a variety of this species. 



B. MYOCORYNA, Stal. 



a. Unicolorous blue. Haldemani. 



b. Unicolorous red, legs black. rubiginosa. 



c. Thorax feneous. 



1. Elytra with four seneous vittae. Uneolata. 



2. Elytra with two vittae. DaJilbomi. 



d. Thorax maculate. 



1. Entirely black beneath. ll-lineata. 



2. Pale, spotted with black, beneath. 



* Elytra regularly striate punctate. juncta. 



** Striae confusedly punctate. \Q-lineata. 



2. C. Uneolata, Stal. Chrys. Amer., p. 140, 298. 



"^Eneous, thorax thickly and finely punctate, elytra yellow, 

 striae geminate, not very regularly punctate, alternate interstices 

 black, interrupted ; legs ffiueous, tibiaj pale." L. 8 mm. Texas 

 (Chevrolat). 



3. C. ll-lineata, Stal, 1. c. p. 163, 301. 



Black, above pale yellow, head with a frontal spot, and thorax 

 with various marks black; elytra with the suture, and vittse, and 

 the epipleurffi aeneous. L. .44. Southern coast range of Call- 

 fornia (Horn), Mexico (Stal). 



4. C. 10-lineata, Say, J. Acad., iii. 453. 



The common species appears to be the true species of Say, 

 which Stal had not seen, his mutilineata differs in havinsf the 

 posterior portion of the epipleura black, and the marginal and 

 sutural vittas joined at the apex, and is a Mexican species. 



5. C. juncta, Germ., sp. nov. p. 590. 



Differs from the preceding by the regular punctures in the striae. 

 C. defecta^ Stal (1. c. 165-304} is a variety in which the fourtli and 

 eighth interstices are confluent, and the other two abbreviated ; 

 but a specimen in Leconte's collection from Tamaulipas is inter- 

 mediate in this respect. 



6. C. Dahlbomi, Stal, 1. c. p. 155, 307. 



aEneous, legs and under side testaceous, tinged with brassy ; 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



elytra regularly striate punctate, with the 3d and 8-9tli inter- 

 stices yellow, L. 7 mm. Texas, Mexico (Chevrolat). 



7 C. Haldemani, Kogers, 1. c. 

 8. C. rubiginosa, Rogers, 1. c. 



C. ZYGOGRAMMA, Ev. 



o. Thorax unicolorous brown or brassy. 



1. First and second interstices brown, forming a sutural vitta. 



siituraUs. 



2. Second interstice brown, exterior vittfe irregular, disrupta. 



b. Thorax brown, anterior angles broadly ochreous, interstices punc- 

 tate. 



1. First vittsD free, not joined to the suture. exclamationis. 



2. First vittfB confused with the sutural line. 



Two lateral vittae joined a little before the apex, no extra 



marks. continua. 



Lateral vittse joined at , traces of the external vittae visible. 



conjuncta. 

 9 C. exclamationis, Fabr., Rogers, 1. c. 



10. C. conjuncta, Rogers, 1. c. 



With this is to be united G. stolata, Suffr. from Mexico, and C. 

 pallida, Bland ; both differing in the more or less iuterrupted vitt?e. 



11. C. continna, Lee, Tr. Ent. Sec. 1868, p. 57. 



Very near C. conjuncta, but with two lateral rather broad brown 

 vittse and no traces of the external one. The coloring is that of 

 C. suturalis, from which the punctate interstices distinguish it. 



12. C. snturalis, F.ibr. (1775), Stiil, 1. c. 



This name is to be preferred to pulchra, under which he de- 

 scribed it in 1792; C. casta, Rogers, is merely a variety in which 

 the lateral vitta is divided into two. 



13. C. disrupta, Rogers, 1. c. 



In this the lateral vittae are obsolete; a smaller A'ariet}' occurs 

 in Texas and Colorado with slightly different markings. 



D. CALLIGRAPHA, Er. 



a. Elytra more or less distinctly striate punctate, resembling Zygogramma. 



1. Thorax brown. 



* Sutural vitta uniform. similiit. 



** Sutural vitta dilated before the apex. iiicisa. 



2. Tliorax willi sides, and from margin yellow. pracclm. 



3. Thorax yellow with black marks, form narrow. elegans. 



b. Elytra striate punctate, thorax brown, last joint of palpi very large. 



lunata. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4& 



e. Elytra irregularly variegated. 



1. Epiplcurse of protborax simple, of elytra yellow. 



Thorax pale, or witli the front margin and angles pale. 



muUipunctata. 

 Thorax green. 



First vitta joined to the suture, "which is laterally triden- 



tate. muUiguttis. 



First vitta free, suture not green. PMladelpMca. 



2. Epipleurse of prothorax impressed. 



Epipleura of elytra yellow. 



First and sutural vittse confluent. 



Black, extreme base of autennre pale. sigmoidea. 

 Thorax, legs, and antennae brownish-red. tortuosa. 

 First vitta linear, free, joints 1-4 of antennae paler. 



dislocata. 

 EpipleurfE of elytra green. 



Sutural vitta trifid in front, legs red. serpentina. 



Sutural vitta narowed at base, legs black, sylvia. 



14. C. similis, Rogers, 1. c. 



Yery close to C. suturalis in color, but more oblong. 



15. C. incisa, Rogers, 1. o. 



This has the rounded form of the last group, but belongs here 

 by the claws. 



16. C. prsecelsis, Rogers, 1. c. 



17. C. elegans, Oliv., Rogers, I. o. 



18. C. lunata, Fabr. 



This name must be used in preference to hybrida, Say; the palpi 

 are unusually dilated. 



19. C. multiguttis, StUl, 1. c. 



Leconte's name scalaris is preoccupied ; a fine variety with 

 black legs is called labyrinthica, in Leconte's cabinet, but this 

 name is already in use. 



20. C. philadelpMca, Linn. 



I am unable to follow Stal in separating G. spireae, Say, which 

 appears to me only a slight variety. 



21. C. multipunctata, Say. 



This species, of which C. Bigshyana and G. verrucosa are varie- 

 ties, appears to me very doubtfully distinct from C.philadelphica. 



\ 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



22. C. dislocata, Rogers, 1. c. 



23. C. Sigmoidea, Leo. 



Very near C. dislocata, but I have seen nothing intermediate, 

 the markings are much stronger, broader, and more confluent. 



24. C. tortuosa, Rogers, 1. c. 



Distinct by its small size and rather rounded form. 



25. C. serpentina, Rogers, 1. c. 



Stal has recorded a variety (mexicana) with black legs. 



26. C. Sylvia, Stiil, ]. o. 



Very distinct by its narrow depressed form, small size (28), and 

 generally unicolorous green surface beneath. Arizona. 



[This is the right place to notice a specimen of C. limhaticollis, Stal, said 

 to be from Chicago ; it is a Mexican species, allied to C. sylvia in form, but 

 reddish-brown instead of green, and the thorax has the margin, sides, and 

 a T-like mark on the disk white.] 



E. CHRYSOMELA, Linn. 



a. Thorax with the margin broad, not well defined. 



1. Elytra subsulcate, unicolorous. subsulcata. 



2. Elytra simple. 



Elytra margined with fulvous. flavomarginata. 



Elytra unicolorous. basilaria. 



b. Margin of thorax abruptly limited. 



1. Size large, color golden or purple. auripennis. 



2, Smaller, uniform feucous. 



Elytra tolerably shining. inornata. 



Elytra minutely alutaceous, opaque. opacipennis. 



27. C. subsulcata, Mannh. 



This belongs to a small group of North China species, accord- 

 ing to Suffrian. 



28. C. flavomarginata, Say. 



Suffrian gives a few comparative differences between this and 

 the European species, but I doubt their value. 



29. C. basilaris, Say. 



Leconte has united the vidua o^ Rogers and his own siibseriata 

 under this name; I feel tempted to go further and consider it is 

 a unicolorous form of C. flavomai-ginala. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



51 



30. C. auripennis, Say. 



Very variable in size and color ; G. cribraria, Rogers, has the 

 punctuation closer and more confused, but is not distinct. 



31. C. inornata, Rogers, 1. c. 



32. C. opacipennis, Rogers, \. c. 



Differs from the last only by thealutaceous surface of the elytra, 

 which is, however, slightly visible in C. inornata. Both these 

 species are very near C. auripennis. H 



3. Gastrophysa, Chev. 



a. Thorax and legs red. 



b. Elytra externally golden, suture purple. 



c. Unicolorous green or blue. 



1. Head sulcate, punctuation rough. 



2. Head flat, size small, punctuation fine. 



polygoni. 

 formosa. 



dtssimilis. 

 cyunea. 



1. C. polygoni, Linn. 



2. C. formosa, Say. 



This is probably the C. raphnai of Europe. 



3. C. dissimilis, Say. 



4. C. cyanea, Mels. 



I cannot separate the Californian C. csesia from this species. 



4. Entomoscelis, Chev. 

 1. C. Adonidis, Fab. 



Readily known by its opaque fulvous color, the suture and bi- 

 lateral vittse black. Hudson's Bay and Utah. 



5. Prasocuris, Latr. 



A. Elytral vittfe not confluent at the base. phellandrn. 



B. Elj'tral vittte confluent at base. 



a. Tibipe pale. varipes. 



b. Legs black. .' obliquata. 



1. P. Phellandrii (Linn.), Faun. Snec, p. 569. 



Illinois (Walsh). 



2. P. varipes (Lee. MSS.), sp. n. 



Elongate, narrow, brassy green, sides of thorax and elj'tra, and 

 a dorsal stripe on the latter fulvous; base of antennas, tibire, and 

 tarsi pale; thorax sparsely coarsely punctate, elj'tra deeply striate 

 punctate, interstices smooth, under surface coarsely punctate. L. 

 .15. Middle States, Canada, Lake Superior. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



3. P. obliquata (Lee. MSS.), sp- n. 



Allied to the preceding but broader; thorax more finely punc- 

 tate; elytra more finelj^ and less regularly punctate striate; dorsal 

 vitta more suddenly oblique at base; legs black. L. IG. Illinois. 

 Very near P. hannoverana of Europe, but with the thorax 

 finely punctate. 



6. Phyllodecta, Kirby. 



1. P. vulgatissima (Linn). 



Suffrian (I. c. p. 394) refers specimens received by him to this 

 species, from which they differ markedly in color, being gene- 

 rally purple; P.interslitialis, Mannh. appears to be founded on 

 a malformed specimen. 



^. GoNiocTENA, Chevr. 



1. G. arctica, Mannh. 



Of this species I have only seen two specimens from Kenai ; 

 it may be known by the black legs and pale tibiae; Suffrian refers 

 it with doubt to G. affinis, but it agrees better with his G.trian- 

 drae especially according to Thomson's description. 



2, G. pallida (Linn.). 



To this species I refer the G. rufipes of Rogers, and the G. sim- 

 plex, Suffr. It is very distinct bj'^ the anterior tibiae hardly den- 

 tate, and the sutural angle of the elytra produced. 



8. Plagiodera, Chev. 



a. Elongate, sides of thorax not thickened, claw joint dentate beneath. 



Unicolorous green. californica. 



Tliorax red, elytra blue. arizonce. 



b. Elongate, sides of thorax thickened. 



Claw-joint not dentate beneath. 



Thorax with the sides yellow, elytra variable. lapponica. 



Thorax green, elytra testaceous. tremulm. 

 Claw-joint dentate beneath. 



Elytra spotted, or unicolorous green. scripta. 



P^lytra purple, narrowly margined with yellow. obsoleta. 

 e. Globose, small, striate punctate {Phirdon Chcv.). 



a. Serial punctures fine, hardly stronger than the insterstitial ones, 



which arc numerous and visible. prasinella. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



b. Punctate striate, interstices nearly smooth. 



1. Interstices very finely punctulate, callus visible. cocJileartoe. 



2. Callus well marked, interstices subrugulose. ovipennis. 



3. Callus none, interstices subrugulose, form convex. viridis. 



1. P. californica, Rogers. 



2. P arizonae, sp. n. 



Testaceous red, metastei-num and elytra blue ; antennse black ; 

 joints 1-4 testaceous; head foveolate; thorax very sparingly punc- 

 tate; elytra coarsely subseriate punctate; scutellum black, smooth. 

 L. .20. Arizona. Extremely near F. californica. 



3. P. lapponica (Linn.). 



I cannot separate the avowed specimens of C. lapponica from 

 Kenai from the C. iriierrnpta, Fab., which occurs nearly all over 

 the States. Dr. Horn has a series from California distinguished 

 by the fine punctuation, subseriate towards the suture; but they 

 do not differ specifically. 



4. p. tremulse (Fabr.). 



Distinct by its coloration. It is very common in Europe, and 

 has been sent from Hudson's Bay. 



5. P. scripta (Fabr.) Rogers, 1. c. 



The C. conjiuens, Rogers, is only a variety of this species, which 

 appears to be very near P. 20-maculata of Europe. In the North 

 varieties occur with entirely green elytra, but I have seen inter- 

 mediate specimens. 



6. p. obsoleta (Say). Rogers, I. c. 

 Apparently distinct from the preceding. 



7. p. prasinella (Lee). 



Oregon (Leconte), the serial punctures are almost lost in this 

 species. 



8. p. coclileariae (Syll.). 



I refer to this European species two specimens in Dr. Leconte's 

 collection without exact locality. 



9. p. oviformis (Lee). 



Oregon (Leconte). Near P. viridis, but more oval, depressed 

 and with a distinct callus. 



10. p. viridis (Mels.). Rogers, \. e. 



Very variable in color and sculpture. P. seruginosum, SufTr. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



(1. c. p. 333) seems to me to be a variety with the thorax more 

 finclj' puuctate. 



GALEKUCIDES. 



Tribe Galerucini. 



The species of this subfamilj- have been carefully worked out 

 by Dr. Leconte in the Proceedings of the Academy for 18G5. 

 Since then, much Californian and other material has accumulated, 

 and I find it necessary to add a few species .and rearrange some 

 of the preceding Ones. 



The only additions since Leconte's paper are Luperus lideicoUis, 

 L. varicornis, Phyllechthrus nigripeniiis, Diahrolica blandula, 

 D. virgifera^ described by Dr. Leconte in the Transactions of 

 the American Entomological Society for 1868, and Andreclor 

 (g. n.) Q-punctatus, by Dr. Horn, in 1872. Malacosoma, the two 

 species referred by Dr. Leconte to this genus, appear to me to 

 belong to the Halticini. 



Phyllecthrus dorsalis (Oliv ). 



I cannot separate specifically P. atripennis (Say), which differs 

 only in color. 



Phyllecthrus gentilis, Lee. 



F. nigripennis also dift'ers only in color ; I do not see that these 

 color variations, however constant, are indicative of more than 

 races ; and we are not 3'et in a position to say much of their con- 

 stancy even. 



Luperus brunneus (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



This species has the third joint of tlic antcnnaj quite short, as 

 in P.moridus\ but is mucli larger than that species and of a 

 shining brown color, less pale; antennai long, thorax broader 

 than long, with the elytra very finely and sparingly punctulate ; 

 upper side convex, rather ventricose. L. .10. North Carolina 

 (Zimmerman). 



Luperus morulus, Lee. 



The length of this species is printed .4, in error for .14. 



Luperus rufipes, Lee. 



This name has been in use in Europe since 1787 ; I have there- 

 fore changed it to L. Lecontii. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 55 



Androlyperus (g. n.). 

 A. fulvus, sp. n. 



Ovate, rather depressed, shining, fulvous ; head, scutellum, 

 inetasternum, legs, and antennae black ; thorax rather longer 

 than broad, coarctate behind, sides and base margined, disk 

 smooth ; elytra impunctate. L. .20. Coast Range, S. of San 

 Francisco (Horn). 



J* First ventral segment deeply foveolate, third and fourth 

 concave, each with a long linear process curving laterally over, 

 5-6 black, concave ; ejytra with a small brown spot before the 

 apex, margin deeply plicate and distorted at about f ; antennae 

 sub-serrate. 



This genus, by its general appearance, its antennoe, margined 

 elytra, etc, belongs in the vicinity of Luperus ; from which it is 

 alnindantly distinct by the last joint of tlie palpi, rather longer 

 than the preceding, acute, and by the prosternum distinctly visible 

 between the coxae, a character anomalous in the Galerucini, though 

 universal in the Halticini ; the posterior femora are in no way- 

 dilated. The remarkable sexual characters have suggested the 

 name emplo^'cd. 



Galeruga. The type of Geoffroy's genus was G. tanoceti, and 

 Adimonia is merely a synonym. I propose to restrict the name 

 Galeruca to Leconte's first group, in which the anterior coxal 

 cavities are closed, and the tibiae setulose. (These characters were 

 first used by Thomson in his Skand. Col.) 



Of the five species described, G. cribrata appears to me certainly 

 to be a variety of G. americana^ and G. himltata is somewhat 

 doubtful. 



Galerucella, g. n., differs from Galeruca by the open coxal cavi- 

 ties. It ma}^ be divided (as Thomson has done) into groups by 

 the relative position of the mesocoxae, which are distant in G. nym- 

 phese and sagittarise, and nearly contiguous in the other species. 



Galeruca cavicollis, Lee. 



Dr. Zimmerman's specimens were from Massachusetts and not N. 

 Carolina. A further series shows that it is not to be distinguished 

 from G. hsematica. 



G. marginella, Kirby. 



This certainly is the G. nymphese of Europe; G.punctipennis 

 Manuh., also is not, as far as I can see, specifically distinct. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MoNOXiA. The characters derived from the claws appear to 

 me to be certainl}' sexual ; hence, 31. obtusa, gnUulata, and debilis 

 are not in ray opinion separable ; the type of 31. angularis has tlie 

 angles of the thorax more developed, but that is a character to be 

 used with caution; 31. consputa is distinct by the black suture, and 

 31. sordida by the thick pubescence. 



Trihabda. This genus includes G. vibiirni, Payk., and was 

 separated by M. Joannis as a subgenus under the name PyrrhaUa 

 in 1866; the species are very hard to define, and the increased 

 material before me leads me to different results from those arrived 

 at by Dr. Leconte. Nevertheless, he does not, I believe, coincide 

 in the views here expressed, preferring to retain these species as 

 distinct. 



T. tomentosa, canadensis, and virgafa., I 'consider as forming 

 one variable species, with black vittse and black scntellum ; T. 

 Jlavolimbata and T. luteocincta form another, with blue vittne, to 

 which may ultimately be added T. attennata ; T. co7ivergens ap- 

 pears distinct ; T. nitidicollis and T. brevicoUis have a more or 

 less white scutellum. 



There is still a form brought abundantly' from Xew Mexico by 

 Dr. Lewis, which closely resembles T. nitidicollis in form, and 

 the white scutellum, but is much smaller, and the thorax is dis- 

 tinctly punctate. This variety (or species) I propose to name T. 

 Lewisii ; and it is most interesting on account of the links it 

 affords. The specimens were taken with T. nitidicollis, the vittse 

 vary from metallic green to dull black, and vary slightly in extent. 



Tribe Hallicini. 



Prosternum separating the anterior coxa?, elytral cpipleurae reaching the 

 apex, legs saltatorial. 



A. Posterior tarsi with the last joint inflated. 

 B. Elytra striate punctate. 



C. Elytra pilose. UypolamjiRU. 



Co. r.lylra glabrous. < j i/ 



\ Fhadimus. 



Bo. Elytra punctate. ] 



K (EdionycfM. 



Ab. Posterior tarsi simple. 



B. Claws simple or dentate. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



C. Anterior coxal cavities open, thorax not margined at base. 

 D. Antennae separated at base. 



r Bisonyeha. 



E. Posterior tarsi normal. Grapiodtra. 



Orchestris. 



i. Afhthona. 



Eb. Posterior tarsi with the first joint elongate. 



Longitarsus. 



Dh. Antennae almost contiguous. Dibolia. 



a. Anterior coxal cavities closed, elytra generally striate 



2)unctate. 



D. Antennas 11-jointed, posterior tarsi normal. 



E. Posterior tibiae simple. 



F, Glabrous above. 



G. Elytra punctate. {Haltica. 



' Systena. 

 Gb. Elytra striate. 



H. Thorax_ impressed at base. 



Crepidodera. 

 Hb. Tliorax with a basal plica. 



Balanomorp?ia. 

 Fb. Pubescent. ' Epitrix. 



Eb. Posterior tibiae dentate. \ EupUciroscelu. 



l Ghcutocnema. 

 Db. Antennae 10-jointed, tarsi inserted on the side of the 

 posterior tibiae. Psylliodes. 



Bb. Claws bifid. BlepTiarida. 



Hypolampsis, Clark, Cat. Halt., p. 230. 



Distinct from the other North American genera by the pubescent 

 surface and striate elytra. Anterior coxal cavities closed. 



1. H. pilosa (111.), Mag., vi. p. 105. 



Oblong, brown, reddish beneath, above clothed with long erect 

 dark hairs, and a close griseous rather maculate pubescence ; head 

 deeply punctate, antennae with second joint short, 1-6 pale red, 

 7-11 black, distinctly thickened; thorax quadrate, rounded in 

 front, sides straight, veiy closely punctate ; scutellum griseous, 

 pubescent ; elytra deeply punctate, striate, broader than thorax, 

 sides parallel ; body beneath smooth, shining. L. .10-.12. Vir- 

 ginia, Texas, Illinois, Pennsylvania. 



2. H. Clarkii, Cv., pilosa J, Clk. 1. c, p. 238. 



Evidentl}'- very distinct ; head granulate, ferrugineous, antennte 

 subincrassate, flavous ; thorax transverse fuscous ; elytra broad, 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



globose, punctate, striate, with a thick flavous pubescence con- 

 cealing the striiie. L. 1 line. Pennsylvania (Chevrolat). 



3. H. Mellyi, sp. n. 



Oblong parallel, clothed throughout with a cinereous pubescence, 

 and with sparse erect pale hairs ; antennae nearl}' contiguous, 

 long, second joint short, 3-11 elongate, not thickened ; thorax 

 subtransverse, faintly constricted towards the base; elytra parallel, 

 punctate striate, punctures hardly distinct. L. .10. Kansas 

 (Melly). Differs from both the preceding b}' the antemedial de- 

 pression of the elytra. 



Pachyonychus, Chev. 

 Differs from au}^ of the genera given in Clark's Catalogue by 

 the antennae Avitli joints 2-3 short, subequal, 4-11 thicker and 

 pubescent ; maxillary palpi inflated, posterior tibiae simple, with 

 one si)ur. 



P. paradoxus (Mels.)i Proc. Acad., iii. p. 163. 



Oblong, parallel, glabrous, shining, bright ferrugineous, elytra 

 deep brown with the suture ferrugineous ; autennai with joints 

 4-11 fuscous ; head smooth, thorax transverse, sparsel}' but rather 

 deeply punctate, front and hind angles acute, prominent, base 

 transversely impressed, excavate between the hind angles ; scu- 

 tellum smooth, tip truncate ; elytra rather deeply punctate striate, 

 interstices plane, smooth. L. .14-.15. Virginia, Pennsylvania. 



This is the first species described by any author under the 

 above generic name, which must thus be kept for it. 



Fhcedromuti Walej-housii, Clk., Cat Halt., p. GG, pi. iii. f. 1, is 

 entirel}^ unknown to me, but must be allied to the species just 

 described, from which it differs in having the posterior tibia' ex- 

 cavate externally, with no terminal spur, maxillary pali)i elon- 

 gate, etc. 



It is described as being black, glabrous, shining; thorax yellow, 

 impunctate ; sides angulate ; elytra punctate-striate, strite obso- 

 lete towards the ai)ex, antennic black, legs pale. L. 3 lin. South 

 Carolina (Waterhouse). 



Pachyonychus \\ paradoxtis, Clk., Cat. Halt., p. 61, t. 2, f. 7, is 

 also unknown to me. It differs by having the elytra coarsely and 

 densely punctate throughout, of a dark olive-green color, antennjB 

 with the base and apex pale, legs pale. Philadelphia (Chevrolat). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



This name cannot be retained, so I propose to revert to the Deje- 

 aniau specific name, dimidiaticornU^ and to give the genus the 

 name Hamletia, in honor of the Rev. Hamlet Clark, who did so 

 much to elucidate this troublesome group of Coleoptera. 



(Edionychis, Latr. 



Distinct from the preceding genera by the open coxal cavities, 

 and b}' the smooth or simply punctulate el}' tra. 



A. Thorax with the margins reflexecl but not produced, explanate ; size 



large. 



B. Thorax impunctate, yellow. 



C. Elytra blue or green. 



D. Elytra opaque, punctulate ; thorax unicolorous. 



ojxtcior, sp. n. 



Db. Elytra green, punctate, shining ; thorax spotted. 



gibbitarsia. 



Dc. Elytra blue, impunctate ; thorax unicolorous. 



histrans, sp. n. 

 Cb. Elytra variegated with white. 



D. Elytra each with four spots ; cpipleurse black. 



8-maculatts. 



Db. Elytra with a pale vitta ; epipleura? pale, interjectionis. 



Bb. Thorax punctate. 



C. Epipleurse black. 



D. Abdomen beneath more or less pale. abdominalis. 



E. Thorax yellow spotted with black. V. scripticoUis. 



Eb. Thorax black margined with yellow. 



F. Elytra punctulate, shining. V. vians. 



Fb. Elytra opaque. V. discicollis. 



Ec. Thorax black, V. concinna. 



Bb. Abdomen beneath entirely black, whole insect black. 



E. Opaque. lugens. ] 



Eb. Shining, thorax with hind angles prominent. 



violasceus. 

 Cb. Epipleurffi pale. 



B. Elytra blue. thoracica. 



Bb. Elytra pale with a black vitta. circumcincta. 



Ab. Thorax with the margins explanate ; elytra mostly pallid, size gene- 

 rally small; epipleuraj always pale; antennae with the third joint 

 nearly glabrous. 



B. Elytra blue, margins narrowly yellow. L. .34. jlavocyanea. 

 Bb. Elytra pale variegated with darker. 

 C. Epipleurae of elytra sinuate. 

 B. Intermediate tibia? simple. 



E. Elytra with two vittre, one dorsal, one lateral. 



petauriita. 



r 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE xiCADEMY OF 



Eb. Elytra with one dorsal vitta. miniata. 



Bb. Intermediate tibire ungulate externally. 



E. Oval, suture broadly black. tliyamoides. 



Eb. Parallel, suture and a dorsal vitta black. texana. 

 Cb. Epipleurse equally broad. 



I). Tliorax coarsely punctate ; elytra with a plica. 



(}-7naculata. 

 Bb. Thorax smooth ; elytra simple. 



E. Short, oblong. guercata. 



Eb. Elongate, elytra more finely punctate. scalaris. 



A. Thorax with the sides narrowly rejftexed, antennae loith joints 



3-11 2^'^ibescent, fuscous. 



1. 0. opacior, sp. n. 



Elongate, oval, black, opaque, femora and thorax red ; head and 

 thorax smooth, this with the sides rounded, reflexed, hind angles 

 obtuse, base rounded not marginated ; el^'tra evidently and closely 

 punctate, posterior femora smooth, tibiae subexcavate at tip. L. 

 .40. Texas. 



2. 0. gibbitarsis, Say, J. Acad., iv. 83. 



Ovate, ferrugineous ; antennae, tibiae, and tarsi fuscous, elytra 

 brilliant green; head and thorax smooth; this generall3' with 

 four green discoidal spots placed transversely ; hind angles acute, 

 distinct ; elytra rather faintly and sparsely punctate ; body be- 

 neath ferrugineous. L. .28. Kansas, Pennsjdvania. 



3. 0. lustrans, sp. n. 



Allied to 0. gibbitarsis, but with impunctate elytra, and much 

 less strongly developed posterior claw-joint; the head, thorax, 

 femora, and body beneath are yellow; the metasternum and a 

 frontal spot being black ; the thorax is less transverse, and the 

 hind angles are rather obtuse. L. .28. Texas. 



o' 



4. 0. 8-maculata, sp. n. 



Subelongate, ochreous-white ; antennre fuscous, basal joints 

 parti}' i^ale ; head with a frontal spot white, thorax white above 

 and below, formed as in O. Iust7'ans : el3'tra black, impunctate, 

 each with four large white spots, and the humeral angle narrowl}-- 

 white ; the spots are one subscutellar, one submarginal before the 

 middle, one pear-shaped near the suture, just behind the middle, 

 one reniform transverse, subapical. L. .24. Texas. 



Body beneath pale, four anterior legs fuscous. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



5. 0. interjectionis, sp. n. 



Ovate, ochreous-white, hody and legs fuscous, posterior femora 

 red ; head black with a frontal spot white ; thorax white, trans- 

 verse, hind angles obtuse; scutellum black; elytra brownish- 

 black, the margin and a dorsal vitta ochreous-white (this vitta 

 broad at the apex and sometimes interrupted), surface impunc- 

 tate, or scarcely visibly punctulate. L. .25. Texas (Lecoute). 



6. 0. vians, 111. Mag., vi. p. 33. 



Ovate, black, above olive green, alutaceous ; head deepl}^ punc- 

 tate, thorax transverse, sides nearly straight, hind angles acute, 

 base deeply sinuate behindthe angles, ochraceous, sparsely punc- 

 tate, alutaceous, disk with a broad transverse black spot leaving 

 a narrow ochreous margin ; scutellum smooth, black ; elytra aluta- 

 ceous, sparsely punctate ; beneath black ; posterior tibiae simple. 

 L. .23. Middle, Southern, and "Western States. 



V. scripticollis , Say, J. Acad., iv. 84. 



Somewhat larger, the thoracic spot is less developed, and forms 

 a sinuous band across the thorax. Hudson's Bay, Slave Lake. 



V. discicollis, Dej. 



Yery opaque, the elytral punctuation obsolete, thoracic punctu- 

 ation very deep and coarse. Southern States. 



V. concinna, Fabr., Syst El., i. 499, 109. 



Differs from the tj^pe by having the thorax entirely greenish- 

 black. These four very different looking forms appear to me at 

 most races of one species, all agreeing in having the apex of the 

 abdomen testaceous. 



7. 0. violaceus, Lee. Pr. Acad., 1859, p. 137. 



Ovate, violet-blue, rather shining; antennfe short, black, head 

 deeply punctate ; thorax transverse, sparselj'- punctate, angles 

 acute ; elytra rather closely and distinctly punctate, body be- 

 neath black, posterior femora sparingly punctate. L. .25. Fort 

 Tejon (Leconte). 



8. 0. lugens, Lee. Col., Kans., p. 24. 



Yery similar to the above, from which it differs, being entirely 

 alutaceous; thorax sparingly, el3'tra not visibly punctate; hind 

 angles of thorax much less prominent. L. .24. New Mexico 

 (Leconte). 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



9. 0. thoracica (Fabr.), Syst. El., i. 498. 



Broadly ovate, ferrugineous; antenna?, tibite, and tarsi fuscous; 

 elytra violet, margin narrowly and opii)leunx* ferruginous; thorax 

 transverse, sides nearly straight, angles acute, deeply punctate, 

 disk with seven black dots (four anterior and three immediately 

 posterior and alternate to them) ; scutellum smooth ; elytra 

 closely punctate; anterior tibise deeply sulcate externally. L. 

 .30. Southern and Middle States. 



10. 0. circumcincta, sp. n. 



Ochreous, antenna, tibife, metasterum black; head deeply punc- 

 tate ; thorax opaque, sides curved, angles moderately prominent, 

 surface sparingly punctate, generally with two oblique discoidal 

 marks black ; elytra closely punctate, subrugose, suture and 

 maro-in very narrowly black, also a broad dorsal vitta black, not 

 reaching the apex. L. .24. Southern States. 



Var. Dorsal vitta absent. 



B. Tliorax more transverse^ sides exjyJavate, antennse ivith the 

 third joint subglabi'ous lite the second. 



H. 0. fiavocyanea, sp. n. 



Ovate, ferrugineous, antenna^ with joints 4-11 fuscous; thorax 

 ochreous, disk broadly black, sparingly and obsoletely punctate, 

 angles acute ; scutellum smooth, black ; elytra steel-blue, margin 

 and epipleurre ochreous, finely and sparingly punctulatc, with a 

 few deeper punctures on the callus; posterior femora punctate ex- 

 ternally ; tibiae emarginate before the apex. L. .24. Texas (Bel- 

 frage). 

 12. 0. petaurista (Fabr.), Syst. El. i. 495. 



Ovate, ochreous, beneath ferrugineous; antennae (except the 

 base) and 4 anterior tibia? fuscous ; head ferrugineous deeply 

 punctate ; thorax with a variable discal mark blackish, obsoletely 

 punctate; elytra distinctly punctate with the suture, a dorsal and 

 a lateral vitta black ; posterior femora punctate externally, tibia? 

 emarginate. L. .21. Southern States, Texas. 

 Var. Sutural and dorsal vitta confluent. 

 Yar. Elytra finely punctate. 



13. 0. miniata (Fabr.), Syst. El., i. 495 ; fallax, Mels., Pr. Acad., iii. 



Yery closely allied to the preceding, but smaller ; thorax with 

 the hind angles obtuse, lateral vitta of the elytra absent, and the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELnilA. 63 



dorsal vitta more remote from the suture. L. .24. Middle and 

 Southern States. 



14. 0. thyamoides, sp. n. 



Regularly oval, ferrugineous; antennje fuscous, base pale; head 

 with a few deep punctures near the e3^es; thorax scarcely punctu- 

 late, opaque, sides rounded, angles acute; scutellum smootli ; 

 elytra finely alutaceous, rather closel}' punctate, external margin 

 broad ochreous; a broad sutural vitta not reaching the apex, 

 black. L. .15-.16. Western States (Leconte). 



Differs from the preceding by the intermediate tibiie angulate 

 externally. 



15. 0. texana, sp. n. 



Elongate, subparallel, depressed, head and body beneath black; 

 antennae at tlie base, legs, and prosternum ferruginous ; head 

 evidently punctate ; thorax with the sides nearly straight, smooth, 

 subopaque, ochreous ; scutellum black ; elytra oclireous, punctate, 

 suture and a dorsal vitta not reaching the apex, black. L. .16. 

 Texas (Belfrage). 



Very like a species of Systena in form and coloration. 



16. 0. 6-maculata (111.), Mag. vi., p. 104. 



Oblong, opaque, obscurely ferruginous, above coarsely punc- 

 tate ; thorax and elytra irregularlj' variegated with brownish- 

 black, these with a distinct plica parallel to the margin. L. .12. 

 Middle States. 



This and the following species agree in having the elytral epi- 

 pleurffi equally broad and not sinuate about the middle as in the 

 others. 



17. 0. quercata (Fab.), Syst. El., i. 495, limhalis, Mels., Pr. Acad. iii. 



YerjMike 0. 6- macz^/a/a, but thorax obsoletelypunctulate; elytra 

 black, margin pale ochreous, and body beneath black. The elytra 

 also have no submarginal plica. L. .12. Southern and Middle 

 States. 



The punctuation of the elytra is variable in strength, and pale 

 variet ies occur in which there is only a basal dot and dorsal vitta 

 dark. 



18. 0. scalaris, Mels. Pr. Acad., iii. 163 ; lohata, Lee. Col. Kans., p. 24. 



More elongate than the preceding; thorax impunctate; elytra 

 much more sparingly and finely punctate ; irregularly variegated 

 with brown. L. .20. Kansas, Pennsylvania. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DisoNYCHA, Chev. 



Elytra yellow with black vittoe. 

 Under surface pubescent. 



Thorax short, sides broadly reflexed with a marked callus, head 

 black. 

 Legs and under side black. liinbicollis. 



Hind femora at least and part of the body red. V. paUqjes. 

 Thorax convex, subequal, with four black spots or immaculate ; 

 epipleurse with the outer edge pale. 



Metasternum black, a narrow mesial line smooth, alternata. 

 Metasternum red, the mesial surface broadly smooth. 



punctigera, 

 Epipleurfe black. 



Legs and under side black ; elj'tra subcostate. pennsylvanica. 

 Legs and under side red ; elytra very smooth, shining. 



glahrata. 

 Under side glabrous. 



Epipleurfe, legs, and under side black, thorax coarsely punctate. 



maritima. 

 Under side red. 



Elytra with the suture and a dorsal vitta black. abhrevita. 

 Elytra with a common broad sutural vitta black, discoidea. 

 Elytra blue or green. 



Thorax concolorous, surface opaque, apex of venter yellow, funerea. 

 Thorax yellow. 



Head, le^s, and under side black, head coarsely punctate. 



(j'iangularis. 

 Head and under side varied with red, front of head smooth. 



collar is. 



The species of this group var^' to an inordinate degree, and 

 the determination of true specific limits is one of extreme diffi- 

 culty. No certain result can be arrived at until long series have 

 been collected from different parts and the plants on Avhich they 

 feed carefully noted. This table is only intended as an approxi- 

 mation. 



Graptodera, Chevr. 



The species of this genus, from their similarity of coloration, 

 are even more embarrassing than those of the last genus ; numer- 

 ous species have been described, but at different times, so that 

 the characters are not contrasted; and the true specific limits 

 can only be ascertained when wc shall have seen series consisting 

 of a dozen of each qnasi-species from all parts of the country. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 65 



The uniform bluish-green color, transversely impressed thorax, 

 and simply punctate elj'tra render them readily recognizable. 



LONGITARSUS, Chev. 



Also easily known, generall}^, by the elongate first joint of the 

 posterior tarsus and the pale testaceous color; tlie elytra are 

 punctate, thorax not impressed. The species are bej'ond my skill 

 to unravel from the incomplete material before me. 



Balophila, Foudr, (Glyptina, Lee). 



Thorax not margined at the base or impressed ; elytra striate, 

 first joint of posterior tarsi tolerably long. Anterior coxal cavi- 

 ties open. 



1. B, spuria (Lee), Col., Kansas, p. 26. 



Subovate, shining, above testaceous, beneath darker, legs pale 

 red ; head and thorax sparingly jjunctulate ; elytra with the inter- 

 stices smooth, and a small scutellar stria apparent; punctures 

 tolerably deep, apparent ; body black, smooth, shining. L. .6. 

 Kansas, Pennsylvania, North and South Carolina, Maryland. 



B. lissotorques (Lee), is a variety with the thorax almost 

 smooth. 



2. B. cerina (Leo.), Pac. K. Rep., p. 68. 



More elongate, body pale beneath, thorax testaceous, elytra 

 yellow, obsoletely punctate striate. L. .65. S. Jose (California). 



3. B. cyanipennis, sp. n. 



Ovate, narrowed in front, black ; head, thorax, legs, anten- 

 nae, and scutellum red; elytra blue; facial carina rather broad; 

 thorax convex, sides deflexed, rounded ; surface sparingh' punc- 

 tate ; elytra striate punctate, interstices smooth. L. .6. Texas 

 (Belfrage, G99). 



Orchestris, Kirby. Faun. Bor. Amei*. (typ., nemorum.) 



Anterior coxal cavities open behind ; elytra punctate ; thorax 

 not margined at base, second and third joints of antenna equal. 



A. Elytra vitiate. 

 1. 0. lepidula, Lee, Pac. R. Rep., p. 68. 



Subovate, reneous, black, shining; head, thorax, and elytra 

 distinctly and closely punctate ; elytra with a narrow uniform 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



dorsal vitta ochreous, slightly incurved at the apex ; base of tibiae 

 pale. L. .10. California. 



J* Fifth joint of antenna very large, elongate, quadrate. 



2. 0. Zimmermanni, sp. n. 



Ver}' close to O. lejndula, but the elytral vitta is deepl}^ exca- 

 vate outside, straight at the base and incurved at the apex; base 

 of tibiai pale. L. .10. Missouri (Riley). 



J* Fifth joint of antennae very large, elongate quadrate. 



3. 0. vittata (Fab.), Syst.El., i. p. 469. 



Allied to 0. lepidula but more oval; head smooth; thorax aluta- 

 ceous, punctate ; elj'tral vitta deeply excavate externally, incurved 

 at base and apex ; four anterior legs and base of autennai yellow. 

 L. .9 Atlantic region. 



^ Fifth joint elongate, not dilated. 



4. 0. oregonensis, sp. n. 



Allied to 0. striolata^ by the shape of the elytral vittaj and the 

 red base to the antennoe, differing by the shining thorax, dark 

 legs (base of tibife alone pale). L. .11. Oregon (Horn). 



J* fourth and fifth joints dilated. 



B. Elytra each xvith two pale spots. 



5. 0. bipustulata (Fab.), Syst. El., i. p. 464. 



Ovate, black; base of antennaj and legs entirely pale red; 

 bead and thorax finely and sparingly punctulate; elytra sparsely 

 subseriate-punctate, each with two fulvous spots, one large basal, 

 one subapical. L. .10. Middle States. 



. C. Elytra unicolorous. 



6. 0. albionica (Lee). 



Bronzed, evidently punctate ; antennae with the first joint black, 

 2-4 pale ; thorax transverse, sides rounded ; head punctate, cari- 

 nate between the antennre. L. .8. California, Texas. 



I cannot satisfactorily separate the Texan specimens of this 

 species. 



7. 0. Lewisii, sp. n. 



Very like 0. albionica^ but entirely bluish-green, more evidently 

 punctate; antenna? with the base entirely red. L. .0. Colorado, 

 Illinois. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 6Y 



8. 0. aeneicollis, sp. n. 



Shape and size of 0. Lewisii, el3'tra l)lue-green, thorax oeneous ; 

 antennje very distinctly shorter and stouter than in the preceding; 

 elytra with traces of deeper punctures arranged serially, especi- 

 ally two rows near the suture at the base ; tibiae pale. L. .9. 

 Texas (Belfrage, 814), Middle and Southern States. 



Prosternum rugose, sometimes the elytra are less blue and 

 more ffiueous, and have the whole tibia pale. 



9. 0. chalybeipennis, sp. n. 



Rather like 0. seneicollis but much larger; above clear blue, 

 beneath black; antenna?, four anterior legs, and posterior tibins 

 red; head with an elevated carina between the eyes; vertex 

 sparsely punctulate ; thorax alutaceous, punetulate ; elytra punc- 

 tulate, with very evident traces of striae of larger punctures before 

 the middle ; prosternum rugose. L. .11. Xew Jersey. 



Aphtiionia, Chevr. 



Thorax not margined at base, coxal cavities open ; elytra punc- 

 tate, first joint of posterior tarsi not elongate. 



1. A. picta (Say.), J. Acad., iv. 87. 



Ovate, shining, black ; head, thorax, antennae, and legs bright 

 ferrugineous ; elytra blue ; head with a raised smooth space on the 

 vertex ; thorax much broader than long, very sparingly punctate ; 

 elytra sparingly and obsoletely punctate. L. .8. Southern 

 States. 



2. A. texana, sp. n. 



Ovate, not convex; same coloration as the preceding, but 

 closely punctate on the upper surface throughout ; elytra with 

 irregular rows of larger punctures. L. .10. Texas (Belfrage, 

 431). 



Dibolta, Chevr. 



Anterior coxae not prominent, subtransverse ; head deeply- sunk 

 in the thorax, vertical; antennre almost contiguous on the front; 

 elytral epipleurae very narrow after the first third ; posterior 

 tiba? broad, apical spur large and bifid at the extremity. 



D. serea, Mels. Pr. Acad., iii. 167. 



Ovate, convex, shining, bluish-green or geueous; legs and an- 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tenure red ; thorax with the sides deflexed, slightlj'' rounded, 

 closely punetulate with coarser punctures intermixed; elytra 

 with nine rows of punctures, interstices obsoletely finely punetu- 

 late with a few larger punctures. L. .lO-.ll. Middle and 

 Southern States, Texas. 



Var. Ooata, Lee. 



-rEneous ; el^'tral punctures less marked. California. 



Systena, Chevr. 



Anterior coxal cavities closed ; antenna; with the second joint 

 oval, shorter than the tliird, which is elongate, equal to the fourth ; 

 tarsi short, first joint much shorter than the last; claws ample; 

 thorax finely margined at base ; elytra punctate. 



A. Thorax and elytra unicolorous, black, or brassy. 



1. S. hudsonias (Forst.), Nov. Spec. Ins. 



Elongate oval, black, anterior legs and joints 3-1 of the antenna 

 paler ; head and thorax obsoletelj^ punetulate, the latter slightly 

 broader than long ; sides straight, not narrowed in front, broadl}"- 

 margined ; scutellum smooth ; elytra rather closcl}' punetulate, 

 evidently margined ; under surfoce smooth, subpubescent. L. .16. 

 Middle and Southern States. 



2. S. frontalis (Fab.), Syst. El., i. 500. 



Very closel}^ resembling the preceding, but the head is en- 

 tirely red, and the thorax more visibly' punctate. L. .16. Mid- 

 dle and Southern States. 



J* Last ventral segment subemarginate with a smooth medial 

 line. 



3. S. subsenea, Lee, Pac. R. Rep., p. 68. 



Smaller than S. Imdsonias ; shining, decidedly a?neous; legs 

 and antenna; more visibly red ; head, thorax, and elytra equally 

 and visibly punctate; thorax broader in front, anterior angles 

 deflexed. L. .14. San Jose, California. 



4. 8. collarlB, sp. n. 



liesembles S. frontalis in its quadrate thorax ; bluish-black, 

 thorax yellowish-red, base of antenna} piceous ; head smooth; 

 thorax sparsely, elytra more closely punctate; under side smooth. 

 L. .16-20. Texas (Bclfrage, 878). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G9 



B. Elytra ivith an ochreous vitta, epipleiii'se black. 



5. S. elongata (Fab.), Syst. El. i. 500. 



Elongate oval, oeneous, head and thorax punctate shining, the 

 latter broader in front; elytra obsoletely punctate, with a narrow 

 dorsal vitta ochreous, not reaching the apex. L. .16. Atlantic 

 region. 



6. S. miles (Lee), Pac. R. Rep., p. 68. 



Yeiy like S- frontalis, but head sparingly punctate ; thorax al- 

 most smooth ; legs pale, head and thorax ochreous, this with the 

 sides black; elytra as in S. e?o;?^a/a, but with deeper punctures 

 by the scutellum and along the suture. L. .15. California. 



S. ligata (Lee.) is a mature specimen, in which the thorax is 

 much darker and has numerous larger punctures visible. 



S. ochracea (Lee.) is entirely immature, but may belong here 

 also. 



7. S. marginalis (HI.), Mag., ri. 160; ohlonga (Lee), Ann. Lye, i. 173. 

 Entirely ochreous, sides of thorax and elytra and el^'tral epi- 



pleura? black ; thorax and elytra rather closely punctate, alutace- 

 ous; thorax short, sides nearly straight ; posterior angles promi- 

 nent. L. .14-.16. Southern and Western States. 



The eyes are nearer together in this species, so that the frontal 

 space is narrower; the elytral epipleurse are frequently almost 

 pale ; the thorax is often transversely impressed across the base. 



C Elytra ivith a dorsal vitta, margin, and epijileurse pale. 



8. S. blanda, Mels. Pr. Acad., iii. 164. 



Ochreous, under side black; thorax short, closely reserablino- 

 that of S'. miles, from which it differs in having the elytral epi- 

 pleurae pale. L. .14-.16. Atlantic region. New Mexico. 



S. hitseniata (Lee.) appears to me to be founded on unusually 

 large and dark individuals of this species. 



Orthaltica, g. n. 

 Very distinct by the long antenna?, parallel form, short tarsi, 

 and irregularly' striate eljtra; the antennjE are closely approxi- 

 mate, the frontal tubercles very distinct ; the prosternum rather 

 broad, anterior coxae distant. 



1. 0. copalina (Fabr.), Sj-st. El., i. 466. Forticornis, 111. Mag., vi. 3. 



Parallel, subelongate, shining, pitchy ; head, thorax, antenna?, 

 and legs red ; head closely and deeply punctate ; thorax trans- 




70 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



verse, sides slightly rouuded, crenulate, disk sparingly punctate, 

 base impressed, impression not limited ; elytra confusedl}' punc- 

 tate below the scutellum, externally striate punctate. L. .lO-.ll. 

 Middle and Southern States. 



2. 0. recticornis (Lee). 



Allied to the preceding, but thorax quadrate, sides nearly 

 straight, anterior angles with a seta, disk rather more punctate ; 

 elytra regularly striate punctate, scutellar stria well marked ; 

 surface pubescent, L. .10. California (Leconte). 



LUPERALTICA, g. n. 



This genus is established for three small species which have 

 all the facies of a Luperus, but by the incrassate femora, entire 

 epipleurae, separated anterior coxa?, appear to belong to the Hal- 

 ticidee. The form is very much that of Orthallica, but the elytra 

 are much more finely sculptured and not striate; the first joint of 

 the posterior tarsus is elongate; the anterior coxte are closed be- 

 hind, but very narrowly, the base of the prosternum being dilated 

 to meet the epimera; autenuaB long, basal joint short, claws den- 

 tate at the base. 



1. L. fuscula (Lee), Pro. Acad., 1865, p. 206. 



Fuscous, subopaque ; head 5"ellow in front ; tubercles well 

 marked, separated from the front which is pitch}- ; thorax sub- 

 quadrate, sides rounded in front, hind angles acute, base produced, 

 broadly and faintly trifoveolate, disk obsoletely punctulate ; elytra 

 parallel, margin acutely reflexcd,with a marginal series of evident 

 punctures; disk obsoletely punctulate. L. .12-.15. Pennsyl- 

 vania, {llinois, Kansas. 



<-f Fifth segment with a broad obtusely- truncate appendage. 



Var. Novellus (Zimm.). Head, thorax, and legs clear red. 

 South Carolina. 



2. L. senilis (Say), J. Acad., iv. 87-9. tincta (Lee), 1. c, p. 200, 2. 



Closely' allied to L. ftiscula, but elytra distinctly punctulate, 

 bluish-green, rest of tlie body testaceous. L. .12-.15. Illinois. 

 ^ Fifth ventral segment with a narrow acute process. 



. ' Haltica, Geoff. 



Closely allied to Crejndodera^ but with punctate elytra ; thorax 

 transversely impressed and margined at the base. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 71 



1. P. Burgessi, sp. n. 



Black, head, thorax, legs, and aiitennre bright red, club of the 

 latter fuscous; elytra bright blue; thorax nearly smooth, con- 

 vex, sides rounded, elytra irregularly rather shortly punctate. L. 

 .16. Key West, Florida. 



Crepidodera, Chev. 



Distinct b}' the striate glabrous elytra, and the thorax with a 

 well marked posterior impression terminating in a plica. 



1. C. rufipes (Linn.), F. S. n. 545. erythro-pus, Mels., Pr. Acad., iii. 165. 



Oblong ovate, shining; breast and abdomen black; head, thorax, 

 antennae, and legs red ; elytra blue, punctate, striate ; thorax 

 smooth. L. .10. Middle and Southern States. This appears to 

 me certainly identical with the European species. 



2. C. helxines (Linn.), F. S. n. 540. nana, Say, J. Acad., iv. 86. violaeea, Mells. 

 Pr. Acad., iii. 164. areola, Lee. opuleiita, Lee. 



Oblong ovate, shining, beneath bluish-black, above green, 

 purple, or fcneous, legs and antennae red; thorax sparingly 

 punctate, elytra deeply punctate striate. L. .10. Atlantic region, 

 California. 



3. C. atriventris (Mels.), \. c, p. 165. 



Testaceous red, shortly ovate, ventral segments black; thorax 

 smooth, deeply impressed at the base ; elytra not very deeply 

 punctate striate. L. .06. Atlantic region. 



4. C. modeeri (Linn.), F. S. n. 539. 



Ovate, very shining, brassy; antennae and legs pale red ; thorax 

 with the base lightly impressed, the terminal plica very deep ; punc- 

 tuation fine and not close, produced in front of the scutellum ; 

 elytra strongly punctate striate, strice subobsolete apically ; apical 

 region pale yellow. L. .0V-.08. Hudson's Bay. 



V. mancula, Lee. Larger, elytra hardly paler at the extremity. 

 L. .9. Oregon (Leconte). 



5. C. scabricula, sp. n. 



Oblong oval, ferruginous red, antenna? with the apex fuscous, 

 elytra violet blue ; head smooth, thorax with a very deep basal 

 impression, abruptly limited on either side, broader than long, 

 sides rounded in front, disk with a few scattered deep punctures ; 

 scutellum red ; elytra deeply punctate striate, the punctures 




72 PROCEEDIXaS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



regular and closely packed, scutellar stria short, interstices 

 smooth. L. .11. Texas (Belfrage, 436). Differs from C 7'it/t;;es 

 by the red abdomen and strongly punctate el^'tra. 



6. C. ? nana (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Narrow, ovate, blue-black, antennae and legs j-ello wish-red ; 

 frontal carina acute, vertex smooth ; thorax narrow, broader than 

 long, front angles deflexed, sides rounded in front, base trans- 

 versely broadly impressed, surface almost smoothl}^ shining ; 

 elytra irregularly, conspicuously punctate. L. .06. South Carolina. 



Epitrix, Foudr. 



Closely allied to Crepidodera ; thorax impressed at base, im- 

 pression terminating in a plica, surface pubescent. 



1. E. cucumeris (Harr.), Ins., p. 103. seminulum (Lee.)- 



Black, clothed with a short erect gray pubescence; antennae and 

 legs red, posterior femora iufuscate ; head and thorax shining, 

 that smooth, this sparsel}' but evidently punctate ; el^'tra punctate 

 striate. L. .06. Middle States. Yery destructive to the cucum- 

 ber vines, according to Harris (1. c). I cannot separate the Cali- 

 fornian example described by Leconte from this species. 



2. E. subcarinata (Lee), Pac. R. Rep., p. 68. 



Very nearly allied to the preceding, but entirelj' brass}' above, 

 more elongate, thorax more thickly punctate (but still shining), 

 basal impression less distinct. L. .07. San Francisco (Leconte). 



3. . fuscula (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



Also very near E. cucumeris, but broader and equally black ; 

 but all the femora are infuscate, and the thorax is coarsely- and 

 densely punctate, so as to appear opaque; the basal impression is 

 distinct. L. .65. North and South Carolina (Zimm. n. 5443.) 



4. E. lobata (Zimm. MSS.), sp. n. 



This species is extremely close to E. fuscula, of which it has 

 the precise shape ; the thorax is not quite so densely punctate, 

 and the legs are entirely red ; it also is slightly smaller. South 

 Carolina (Zimm. n. 5675). 



5. E. hirtipennis (Mels.), Pr. Acad., iii. 105. 



Oval, entirely testaceous, body beneath darker, elytra ochreous 

 with a medial ill-defined brown fascia; thorax short, small, shin- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. YS 



iiig, tolerably closely punctate, basal impression f:\int. L. .0. 

 Middle, Southern, and Western States. 



Mantura, Stepli. 



This genus is distinct by the sculpture of the thorax, which has 

 a deep fovea on either side the base, but no transverse depression. 

 Elytra punctate striate ; no scutellar stria ; form subcylindrical, 

 front not carinate. 



M. floridana, sp. n. 



Convex, ovate, reddish-brown, beneath black, legs and antennoe 

 red ; head and thorax coarsely punctate, the latter transverse, 

 sides deflexed, hard]}- rounded, hind angles obtuse; base ver}- 

 deeply foveolate ; elytra deeply punctate striate, interstices im- 

 punctate, shining, stride 10, four and five united before the apex. 

 L. .08. Florida, Louisiana, Pennsylvania. The elytra have the 

 apical ^ distinctly paler, as in the European M. ruatica. 



Cerataltica, g. n. 



Antennas stout, second joint shorter than third, 5-11 stout sub- 

 quadrate, longer than broad, eleventh suddenly constricted at the 

 apex and acuminate ; thorax not margined at the base, impunc- 

 tate, posterior tarsi short, eWtra striate. 



1. C. insolita (Mels.), Pr. Acad., iii. 168. 



Subquadrate, entirely brownish-red, antennre fuscous in the 

 middle, the acuminate tip of the eleventh joint black ; ej'es promi- 

 nent, frontal keel not elevated ; thorax convex, front angles de- 

 flexed, sides rounded, hind angles prominent, much narrower 

 than the elytra, which are very finely striate punctate, interstices 

 extremely finely punctulate. L. .065. Southern States. 



Ch^tocnema, Steph. 



Easily recognized b}" the blue or reneous surface and pale tibire; 

 the posterior tibiae are dentate externally, being deeply sulcate for 

 the tarsi. 



A. Striae irregular near the suture^ eyes large, antennce rather 



distant. 

 1. C. irregularis, Lee. 



Brassy or bluish, oval, convex, opaque, minutely alutaceous ; 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



thorax strongly punctate, medial line evident onl}' at the base ; 

 elytra in-egularly evidently punctate striate, insterstices smooth. 

 L. .0T-.08. S. Josd (California), Oregon. 



B. Strice regular^ interstices impunctate. 



2. C. subviridis, Lee. 



Oval, greenish-blue, antennse long, red, apex infuscate, tibise 

 red ; head smooth, thorax short, coarsely punctate, elj-tra punc- 

 tate striate, punctures closely packed, interstices punctulate. L. 

 .08-.09. Kansas (Leconte). 



3. C. denticulata (111.), Mag., vi 163. 



Oval, brassy, in anterior legs, hind tibiae, and antenna} (apex 

 infuscate) red ; surface alutaceous, head obsoletely, thorax evi- 

 dently punctate ; elj^tra rather deeply punctate sti-iate. L. .08- 

 .09. North and South Carolina, Marj-land, Kansas, Pennsylvania, 

 Texas. The Texan specimens are smaller, narrower, and possibly 

 distinct. (No. 869, Belfr.) 



4. C. crenulata, sp. n. 



Ovate, brassy, antennas and four anterior legs red ; head and 

 thorax alutaceous, that smooth, this deeply but sparingly punc- 

 tate ; elytra deeply punctate and striate; punctures large, inter- 

 stices crenulate. L. .06. North Carolina (Zimm. 5441). 



5. C. alutacea, sp. n. 



Subcylindrical, bluish-black, antennae red; surface alutaceous; 

 head smooth, thorax coarsely, tolerably closelj' punctate; elytra 

 deeply punctate striate ; scutellar stria rather long. L. .065. Flo- 

 rida (Leconte). 



6. C. parcepunctata, sp. n. 



Broadly ovate, brass}*, four anterior legs, posterior tibiae, and 

 antennae red ; head and thorax alutaceous, that smooth, this finely 

 and sparsely punctulate, -with a line of deeper punctures along the 

 base; el3-tra deeply punctate striate, shining. L. .06. Pennsyl- 

 vania, Lake Superior. 



7. C. texana, i^p. n. 



Ovate, tibia', tarsi, and antennae red, surface alutaceous, brass}'; 

 head very obsoletely, thorax obsoletely but closely punctulate ; 

 elytra punctate-striate, striae hardly impressed. L. .08. Texas 

 (Belfr. n. 435). 



i 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



8. C. confinis, sp. n. 



Ovate, brassj'', anteunai, four anterior legs, and posterior tibi.ne 

 red ; surface alutaceous, head smooth, thorax closel3^ but lightly 

 punctate, elytra not very deeply striate. L. .055-.06. North and 

 South Carolina (Zimm. n. 5027). 



Very like C. texana, but about half the size. 



9. C. pulicaria {Mels.)i Proc. Acad. iii. 167 {fide Zimm). 



Rather narrowly oval, brassy, base of antennae, four anterior legs, 

 and posterior tibiae red, surface alutaceous, head and thorax opaque, 

 this very obsoletely punctulate with deeper punctures along the 

 base ; elj'tra clearly punctate, striate, shining. L. .06. North 

 Carolina (Zimm. n. 5440), Texas (Belfr. n. 702). 



10. C. elongatula, sp. d. 



Elongate oval, narrow, pointed, black shining, legs and antennae 

 ferrugineous ; head and thorax alutaceous, ver}^ sparsely punctu- 

 late, this transverse, side straight ; elytra clearly punctate striate 

 scutellar striie reaching the middle. L. .06. 



Very unlike the other members of the genus by its depressed 

 form like orchestris, the intermediate tibiae are dentate as well as 

 the posterior. Colorado (Lewis). 



EUPLECTBOSCELIS, g. n. 



Allied to Chsetocnema, but distinct by the posterior tibi sulcate 

 throughout. The clypeus is strongly reflexed and thickened in 

 front, the antennae not very approximate, long, 2d joint quite 

 short ; thorax not impressed, elytra confusedly striate ; posterior 

 tibiae distinctly sulcate throughout, the sides ciliated, and the ex- 

 ternal edge with a tooth before the apex. I have been obliged to 

 form this genus for a Lower California species, which has much the 

 appearance of a Eumolpide. 



1. E. zanti, sp. n. 



Oblong ovate, ochreous, tinged with purple, tibiae and tarsi 

 brown ; head punctate on either side, disk smooth, shining, eyes 

 large, thorax transverse, not emarginate in front, sides straight, 

 base margined, disk unequal, sparingly punctate; scutellum smooth, 

 shining ; elytra thickly and closely substriate punctate ; clothed 

 beneath with a short gray pubescence (as in Disonycha). L. .24- 

 .25. Lower California (Xantus). 



J' First joint of four anterior tarsi broadly dilated. 




\Q PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



PsYLLiODES, Latr. 



Easily known hy the 10-jointed antennas, striate elytra with 

 punctate interstices, and the posterior tarsi inserted on the side of 

 the tibia?. The species are very ditlicult to distinguish. P: inter- 

 stitialis and P. convexior^ Lee, appear to me to be identical ; and 

 P. parmcollis^ Lee, seems to me to be P. punctulata, Mels. 



Blepharida, Chevr. 



1. B. rhois (Forst.), Cent. Ins. i. 21. 



This species is carefullj^ described by Mr. Rogers in his paper 

 on Chrrjsomelidse in the Proceedings for 1856 (p. 29). I cannot, 

 however, consider it as belonging to that sub-famil}', and no course 

 remains but to place it as a separate group of Halticini distin- 

 guished by its bifid claws. 



CASSIDIDES. 



The number of species here enumerated is eighteen, of which two 

 are unknown to me ; but several other species have been attributed 

 to Xorth America by the earlier authors, and Mannerheim (Bull. 

 Mosc. 1853) records the European C. nohilis, Linn., as occurring 

 in Russian America. Two species of Mesomphalia have been said 

 to occur on the Mexican boundaxy, but are very doubtful. They 

 are easily recognized by the coloration, which is green with large 

 red blotches. 



The other genera are thus arranged by Boheman, in his mono- 

 graph of the group; to which reference should be made for de- 

 tailed descriptions. 



A. Head pronunent, visible. Porphyraspis. 



B. Head partially prominent, prosternum produced iu front. 



Chelymorplia. 



C. Head concealed, prosternum not produced. 



a Thorax with the margins thickened. Physonota. 

 b. Thorax transverse, angles rounded, margin simple. 



1. Antenna short. Cassida. 



2. Anteunse longer than the thorax. Copiocycla. 



Porphyraspis, Boh. 



P. cyanea (Say), Boh. Mon. i. 97. 



Hemispherical, very coarsely foveolate ; above light blue. 

 Antennie testaceous. L. .20. Southern States. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Chelymorpha, Chcv. 



1. C. casidea (Fab. 1775). cribraria (Fab.), Boh. Mon. i. 



Oval oblong, bright red, body beneath and legs black ; thorax 

 with four black dots placed transversely; elytra with a common 

 sutural spot below the scutellum, and each with six dots black. 

 L. .38-.46. Atlantic Region. 



Var. Thorax with six spots black. 



Vg.r. Legs more or less red. 



2. C. Lewisii, sp. nov. 



Very similar to the above, but much paler; thorax with two 

 or four spots (in the former case, body pale beneath ; in the lat- 

 ter, dark) ; prosternum with the groove not extending in front of 

 the coxjfi. (In C. cassidea it goes the whole length.) L. .42. 

 ISTew Mexico (Leconte). 



3. C. phytophagica, sp. nov. 



Again very near C. cassidea ; thorax smaller, more shining, 

 more sparinglj- and strongly punctate; elytra more coarselj' and 

 visibly punctate. L. .40. Arizona (Leconte). 



Physonota, Boh. 



1. P. unipunctata (Say), J. Acad., iii. 434. Helia?itki (Rand.), Best. J. ii. p. 30 

 Boh. Mon. i. 



Oval, convex, pale yellowish-ochreous ; thorax witli three black 

 dots, one discoidal sub-eJongate, one on either side nearer tlie 

 base ; antennae black, base pale. L. .38-.46. Atlantic Region. 



C. 5-punctata, Walsh, does not differ from this species. 



Cassida, Linn. 



1. C. nigripes, Oliv. E. M., v. 348. Boh. Mon. ii. 362, 29. 



Brownish-red above, black beneath, antennas with joints 1-7 

 red ; elytra rather deeply punctate striate, margin not widely ex- 

 planate, edge thickened, each with three ratlier obsolete black 

 spots, one before the middle in the fourth and fifth interstices, one 

 under the callus, and one behind the middle, both in the eiglith 

 and ninth interstices. L. .20-30. 



Legs black, or at most the tibiae pale, (^-maculata, Mann. Boh.) 



(3. Legs entire pale, ellipsis, Lee.) 



Ranges across the continent. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. C. bivittata, Say. striolata, Boh. I.e. ii. 444. vittula, Boh. 1. c. 



Shortly ovate, convex, yellowish-red, black beneath, antennae 

 with six joints red ; legs brownish-red ; elytra "with the sides not 

 explanate, deei)ly punctate striate, a line of sub-marginal coarse 

 punctures; each with the suture and two vittae deep brown. L. .19. 

 Middle and Southern States, Illinois. 



3. C. thoracica (111.), Boh. Mon. ii. 376, 4J. 



Oblong ovate, green, thorax and scutellar region reddish ; 

 beneath black, sides of abdomen iiarrowlj^ paler ; basal half of 

 femora black ; elytra confused)}' punctate. L. .28. Illinois. 



4. C. tezana, sp. n. 



Oblong ovate, sides sub-parallel, last three joints of antennas 

 black, tlie rest pale ochreous, shining; thorax with the angles 

 rounded ; elytra with the humeral angles prominent, margins 

 tolerably broad, with nine striae of very deep coarse punctures. 

 L. .22. Texas (Belfrage). 



5. C. callosa, Boh. Mon. ii. p. 471. 



Elytra irregularly tuberculate, and gibbous, dark brown^ mar- 

 gin with two yellow patches, one medial, one sub-apical ; thorax 

 with base largely brown. L. .20. Texas (Salle). 



Closely resembling Copt, clavata, but a true Cassida. 



CoPTOCYCLA, Chev. 



1. C. aurichalcea (Fab.), Boh. Mon. iii. p. 142. 



Above shining, finely seriate punctate, golden, after death testa- 

 ceous, body beneath and last four joints of antenna) black. L. 

 .23. 



Far. Femora with the base infuscate. 



Middle, AVcstern, and Southern States. 



C. aiiriaplendens, Bob., is o\\\y a pale form of this. 



2. C. Arizonae, sp. n. 



Above reddish, with a large lateral h3'aline triangular patch, 

 well defined posteriorly; body beneath and four last joints of 

 antennaj black. L. .23. Arizona (Leconte). 



3. C. guttata (Oliv.), Boh. Mon. iii. p. 314. 



Testaceous above, base of thorax, disk, and base of elytra dark ; 

 body beneath black, sides broadly red ; last two joints of antcnnje 

 black. L. .23. Atlantic region. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Paler varieties have the dorsal mark less developed, and are 

 described by Boheman as C. traheata and C. lucidula. 



4. C. purpurata, Boh. Mon. iii. p. 300. 



Above brownish-red, with a lateral triangular hyaline patch, 

 body beneath black, antennae and legs pale. L. .23. Kansas, 

 Pennsylvania. 



5. C. Lecontii, sp. nov. 



Differs from the others by its more oval, depressed form, recall- 

 ing that of Cassida; the antennae are however long, the last two 

 joints black ; body beneath pale ; thorax with an M-like mark at 

 the base ; elytra with the disk black, variegated with fulvous, 

 humeral angles black at the point. L. .24. Arizona (Leconte). 



6. C. clavata (Fabr.) Boh. Mon. iii. p. 391. 



Pale testaceous, elytra brown, tuberculate, gibbous, margin 

 with a large oblong hyaline spot in the middle, and a small sub- 

 apical one; antennae with the last joint dark. L. .30. Southern 

 States, 



7. C. bisignata, Boh. Mon. iii. p. 119. 



Ovate, rufo-ferruginous, body beneath and last four joints of 

 antennas black; elytra cfeeply punctate striate, disk with a round 

 black dot. L. .29. " America borealis." This species is unknown 

 to me. 



8. C. plicata, Boh. Mon. iii. p. 493. 



Easily distinguished by the claws pectinate at the base ; body 

 beneath pale, last joint of antennae black, elytra with the disk 

 black, and a well-marked foveole on each. L. .28. North Amer- 

 ica. I have not seen this. 



[A large species from Mexico and Texas has the elytra acutely 

 gibbous, and is probably described in Bolieman ; it has been re- 

 ceived from Europe with the MS. name lucida.'] 



HISPIDES. 



The species of this group are but few in number (19), but their 

 synonj^my is somewhat confused, and their descriptions do not 

 exist in any accessible works. I have therefore made the follow- 

 ing brief diagnoses to enable the student to name his species, 

 leaving full descriptions for a time when the whole family of 

 Chry&omelidae shall undergo revision. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Antennse 11 -jointed. 



Elytra finely seriate-punctate, interstices not costate. Stenispa. 



Elytra punctate-striate, alternate interstices costate. Odontota. 



Antennae 8-jointed, joints 9-11 connate. MicrorJiopala. 



Stenispa. 



1. S. metallica (Fab.). Baly, Cat. Hisp. p. 13 ; brevicollis (Rand.) Bost.,J. ii. p. 48. 



[Languria !] 



Elongate, linear, teneous; anteiinre black; thorax very finely and 

 sparingl}^ punctulate. L. .23. Middle States. 



2. S. collaris, Baly. 



Very similar to the preceding but longer, thorax entirelj' red, 

 elj'tra more finelj^ punctate. L. .25. Indian Territory (Horn). 



Odontota, Chev. 



A. El}'tra 10-striate, interstices costate ; at least at base and apex. 



2d and 3d interstices not costate. omogera. 



3d interstice not costate. 



3d and 4tli pairs of stria regular. 



Sides of thorax and humeral angles of elytra orange. 



scapularis. 



Thorax red, disk and elytra black.* notnta. 



Thorax and elytra red, suture black. HarrisU. 



3d and 4th pairs of stria confluent in the middle. bicolor. 



3d interstice costate at base and apex, elytra dilated behind, quadrata. 



B. Elytra 8-striate. 



Elytra broad, subtruncate, pale, varied with fuscous. rosea. 

 Elytra narrow linear, black, or metallic. 

 Thorax longer than broad. 



Entirely black or greenish-black. nigrita. 



Thorax red, front and hind margin black. Ariadne. 



Thorax transverse, red, front and hind margin black. Lecoiitii. 



1. 0. omogera, sp. n. 



Elongate, black, dilated behind, sides of thorax and humoral 

 angles of elytra red; antennje with the 3d joint elongate; elytra 

 regularly and deeply punctate striate; 2d and 8th interstices cos- 

 tate; apical margin deeply and unequally acutely dentate. L. .31. 

 Tampico (Mexico). 



2. 0. scapularis, 01. Etit. vi. 760, pi. ], 13; lateralis, Say, J. Acad., iii. 431. 



Black, sides of thorax and humeral angles of elytra red, the latter 

 broad; apex rounded, serrate, deeply striate punctate, alternate 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



interstices costate, L. .22-.2G. Middle and Western States, Ari- 

 zona, New Mexico. 



3. 0. notata, 01. 1. c. t. 2, f. 26. 



Black, thorax red, with the disk black ; form of 0. scapularis, 

 but elytra less acutely costate; less visible serrate at apex. L. 

 .24. Southern States. 



4. 0. scutellaris (01.), 1. c. f. 21. siituralis % Harr. Ins. p. 98. 



Rather broad parallel, black, thorax and el3'tra red; the latter 

 with the suture black; the color dilating behind. L. .24. Middle 

 and Southern States. 



Var. Suture narrowly black, color broadest in front. 



5. 0. bicolor (01.), 1. c. f. 27. Bacchus, Newm. Ent. 76. 



Black, elongate, parallel, thorax, scntellum, and under side red ; 

 elytra acutely costate. L. .25. Georgia, Illinois. 



6. 0. WalsMi, sp. n. 



Elongate, parallel, black, thorax red above ; head smooth above, 

 deeply foveate between the ej'cs, antennae rather shorter than 0. 

 hicolor, 3d joint elongate, nearly equal to the two following ; 

 thorax transverse, sides rounded, hardly narrowed in front ; 

 deeply punctate ; elytra with ten uniform rows of deep approxi- 

 mate punctures, the 8th interstice only carinate ; beneath opaque, 

 metasternum shining. L. .14. Illinois (Entomological Society). 



7. 0. rubra (Web.), Obs. p. 66. quadmta (Fab.), Syst. El. ii. 60. 



Rose red, accuminate in front, elytra dilate, and obtusely punc- 

 tate behind ; metasternum and middle of ventral segments black ; 

 elytra acutely costate ; the 3d costa visible at base and apex onl}^ 

 L. .20. Texas, California, Middle States. 



8. 0. rosea (Web.), Obs. Ent. p. 66 ; inaqualis (Web.), 1. e. ohsoleta (Say) J. Acad. 



iii. 4.32; 'pallida (Say) 1. c, S7(turalis (Fab.) Syst. El. ii. 63. Philemon 

 (Newm.) E. M. v. 390; Baucis (Newm.) 1. c. Jiavipes, Germ, sp., Nov. 529. 



Black, elytra elongate quadrate, finely serrate ; legs pale, tho- 

 rax and elytra marked irregularly with fuscous, the latter acutely 

 costate. L. .15. Canada, Middle and Southern States, Texas. 



Var. Body beneath pale red. 



9. 0. nigrita (Oliv.), 1. c. f. 35, Baly, Tr. Ent. Soo. Lond. ii. 251. 



Narrow, linear, black, or suba^neous ; elytra parallel, acutely 

 costate ; thorax longer than broad, coarsely punctate. L. ,15-.16. 

 Southern States. 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Specimens from Florida in Dr. Horn's collection are dull-l)lack, 

 those from Georgia {sneous, and two from New Mexico greenish- 

 blue; but I can see no other differences. 



10. 0. Ariadne (Newm.), Ent., i. 77, Baly 1. c. 



Black, thorax red, front and hind margins black ; thorax coarse- 

 ly punctate. L. .175. S. Carolina (Zimmerman). 



11. 0. Lecontii (Baly), 1. c. 



Yery like 0. Ariadne in color, but larger ; thorax transverse, 

 form less cylindrical ; thorax with the base transversely sulcate ; 

 disk with a raised vitta. L. .2^ lin. Unknown to me. 



These three species form the genus Chai'idena of Baly. 



MiCRORHOPALA, Chcv. 



Elytra 8-striate, alternate interstices costate. 

 Above more or less marked with red. 



Punctures of the elj^tra lightly impressed, second costa and often 



the thorax red, vittata. 

 Punctures deep and regular, second costa red. 



Under side black. Xerene. 



Under side steel-blue. rubrolineata. 

 Above unicolorous. 



Punctures regular. cyanea. 



Punctures very coarse, subcontinent. excacata. 



Elytra 10-striate in the apical part, black. porcata. 



Elytra regularly 10-striate, pale above. Melsheimeri. 



Elytra irregularly plicate and tuberculate. plicaiula. 



1. M. vittata (Fabr.), Syst. El., ii. 64. 



Bluisli-black, somewhat ovate; elytra faintly costate, punctures 

 lightly impressed, second costa more or less red. L. .23. Middle 

 and Western States, Oregon. 



Var. laetula, Lee, thorax red ; elytral costa clearly red. 



2. M. Xerene (Newm.), Ent. Mag., v. 390. 



Black, sides of thorax, second elytral costa and apex of first 

 red ; punctures of the stride deep and regular ; costa but little 

 elevated. L. .16-.n. Middle and Soutliern States. 



Var. interrupta^ Coup. Can. Nat. (2), ii. 63, second costa in- 

 terrupted by red. 



3. M, rubrolineata (Mannh.), Boitrng. p. 307. 



Tliis seems to me to ditfer only in having the under side blue. 

 California. 



Var. sifjnaticollia, Lee, Elj-tra unicolorous. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 83 



4. M. cyanea (Say), J. Acad., iii. 433; Hecate, Newm. Ent., p. 77. 



In shape like M. vittata, but entirely unicoloroiis, bluish or 

 brassy-tlaek ; ely tral punctures deep and regular ; interstices not 

 elevated ; last ventral segment red on each side. L. .22-.24. 

 Middle and Western States, Colorado. 



5. M. excavata (Oliv.), 1. c. f. 29 ; Erebics (Newm.), I. e. ; Pluto (Newm.), I. e. 



Smaller than the preceding, similarly unicolorous ; alternate 

 interstices elevated, punctures very large subconfluent; under 

 side unicolorous. 



6. M. porcata (Mels.), Pr. Acad., iii. 161. 



Entirely dull black, rather parallel ; antennre short ; thorax 

 coarsely punctate ; elytra with the alternate interstices costate ; 

 the third pair of striae confused thi'oughout their length, forming 

 two distinct pairs at their apex. L. .12. -.13 Pennsylvania, 

 Illinois. 



7. M. Melsheimeri, sp. n. 



Short, subquadrate, antennre very short ; coloration precisely 

 that of A.i'osea; (Aytvix 10-striate; alternate interstices acutely 

 costate. L. .13. Pennsylvania. 



8. M. plicatula (Fab.), Syst. El., ii. 63. 



Black, front of thorax, scutellum, base of femora, and of an- 

 tennae orange; surface rugulose and plicate in every direction, as 

 in Chlamys. L. .20. Southern States. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



NOTES ON THE PECIES OF BTJPRESTIDJE FOUND IN THE 

 UNITED STATES. 



BY G. R. CROTCH, M.A., CANTAB. 



Since the revision of this family, by Dr. Leconte, appeared in 

 1859, considerable changes have become necessary, both by the 

 accretion of new material, and by the more exact determination 

 of Gory's species. Dr. Leconte took -n-itli him on his recent visit 

 to Europe types of all his species ; these were carefully compared 

 by himself and others, so that we now have a probably accurate 

 idea of the species that Gory intended to represent. This synon3'my 

 has been embodied in the present paper, together with the results 

 of a detailed examination of all the species by myself; which has 

 resulted in the suppression of a certain number as races or even 

 mere varieties. In this I shall probably not be followed by some, 

 and if structural characters that I have overlooked can be pointed 

 out, I shall gladl}'^ reverse my decision. The species of Dicerca 

 and Agrilus, two of the most troublesome genera, have been 

 tabulated out ; but it has proved- impracticable to construct a 

 similar table for Chrysohothris or Acmceodera. A certain number 

 of new species have been described from the cabinets of Drs. 

 Leconte and Horn, but the subject is far from being exhausted. 



Chalcophora. C. lacustris^ Lee, seems to me to be no doubt 

 a variety of C. virginiensia^ from which C. angulicollis can only 

 be separated as a race. Similarly the two species formed from G. 

 liberla do not appear to me to be entitled to specific rank, having 

 in consideration the great changes liable to occur in sculpture in 

 this family. 



C. langeri is certainly only G. campestris. 



PsiLOPTERA. P. Wehbii has been identified with P. Driim- 

 mondi, Gory; and I cannot see that P. Woodhousii differs in 

 any tangible manner from it. 



DiCERCA. 

 1. D. prolongata, Lee. 1. c. p. 194. 



Tliis agrees well with the description of Sle7iii7-a tenehrica, 

 Kirby. 



It differs from B. divaricata by the darker color, and the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



deeper cliannel on the thorax ; the % also has the emargination of 

 the last segment partly filled up with an obtuse tooth. 



2.. D. divaricata (Say), Lee. p. 195. 



3. D. caudata, Lee. \. o. 



I cannot see that this is anything but a smaller, less developed 

 form of the last. 



4. D. pugionata (Germ.), Lee. 1. c. p. 196. 



Very distinct by the bidentate elytra ; the 'S has the last seg- 

 ment emarginate with a central tooth. 



5. D. mutica, Lee. I. c. 



Distinct from any other species by the convex prosternum ; the 

 unique '6 has the last segment with a broad emargination. 



6. D. obscura (Fab.), Lee. 1. c. 



7. D. baltimorensis (Hbst.), Lee. 1. c. p. 197. 



This species is founded on a single % which I cannot dis- 

 tinguish from D. obscura. The straight sides of the thorax are 

 peculiar to the % . 



8. D. soror, Lee. \. c. 



Based on a single 9 , D. obscura. 



9. D. lurida (Fab.), Lee. 1. c. 



After attentively examining about fifty specimens, I cannot 

 separate this species from D. obscura. No character of sculpture 

 is of any importance, and the sexual characters vary within cer- 

 tain limits ; thus the emargination in the % has sometimes a 

 short central tooth, and at others is simple, and the 9 has an 

 acute or truncate tooth in the middle. 



10. D. lepida, Lee. L c. p. 198. 



Closely allied to D. obscura, from which it differs by having the 

 thorax channelled, and the elytra with smooth reliefs. 



11. D. spreta, t Lee. 1. c. p. 198. 



This is Gory's asperata, according to the types in Mniszech's 

 collection. It has simple % tibice, as in D. lepida, but differs by 

 the short thorax. 



12. D. agperata, t Lee. 1. c. p. 199. 



This is the D. spreta, Gory, according to the types. The male 

 intermediate tibiie are dentate. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



13. D. tenebrosa (Kirby), Lee. 1. c. 



This is certainl}' Kirb3-'s species, although Saunders refers it to 

 dislinguenda^ Lap. ; Kirby describes the apex of the abdomen as 

 tridentate, which is not applicable to D. lacustris, which Saunders 

 has united with it. 



The male intermediate tibiae are dentate. 



14 D. hilaris, Lee. 1. e. p. 200. 



This belongs to the section with the abdomen rounded in the 

 female, and is in fact the 9 of D. manca. 



15. D. lugubris, Lee. 1. e. 



Founded on a single %; the 9 has the abdomen rounded, and 

 D. lacustris^ Lee. 



16. D. chrysea (Mels.), Lee. 1. c. 



The % has dentate intermediate tibi.ie, and does not differ from 

 D. tenebrosa except in color ; so that I regard it as a bright 

 southern form. 



17. D. punctulata (Schb.), Lee. 1. c. p. 201. 



Distinct by the longer thorax, and elytra with rows of punc- 

 tures. 



18. D. manca, Lee. 1. c. 



This is very close to D. tuberculata, but is generally greener ; 

 the thorax is not dilated in front, and the elytra are less uneven. 



19. D. tuberculata, Lap., Lee. 1. c. 



20. D. lacustris, Lee. 1. c. p. 202. 



This is the 9 of D. lugubris, Leo. 



21. D. bifoveata, Lee. 1. o. 



This is a small female of D. tenebrosa. 



22. D. crassicollis, Lee. 1. e. 



The so-called male is a new species, the 9 is Z). tenebrosa. 



23. D. pectorosa, Lee. 1. e. p. 203. 



24. D. Hornii, ^p. n. 



Oblong, posteriorly acuminate, cupreous or dull .Tneous ; head 

 rugose; thorax broader than long, sides strongly rounded ; mid- 

 dle channelled, the ridges more or less smooth, only slightly ele- 

 vated, sides not uneven; elytra even, subrugose, with four im- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



pressed striae parallel to the suture, the sides irregularly rugulose, 

 apex produced, suture mucronate. L. .70. California. 



% intermediate tibiae with a long narrow tooth near the base, 

 above serrate; last segment with a broad truncate emargination. 



9 Apex of last segment rounded. 



9 Yar. apex of last segment tridentate. 



25. D. sezualis, sp. n. 



Very closely allied to D. tenebrosa, but the male has the inter- 

 mediate tibia? simple, and the prosternum hairy; the female has 

 the apex of the abdomen rounded ; the elj'tral reliefs are higher, 

 smoother, and longer, so that the appearance is different. L. .68. 

 California, Oregon. 



From D. lugubris which it resembles in the ? , the strong 

 sculpture at once separates it. 



26. D. californica, sp. n. 



So closely allied to D. tenebrosa, that I can onlj'^ separate the 

 ^s, which have the tibia? simple, and the prosternum not pilose. 

 L. .65. California. 



Dicer'ca Lecontii, Gory, unknown formerly to Leconte, will 

 now come in the new genus Trachykele, Mars., which is based on 

 T. Blondeli [Abeille ii. 150] found at Paris, but which appears to 

 be N. American. The elytra of this species are now before me, 

 and do not present extreme differences from those of T. Leconlii, 

 of which it may be a large specimen. 



DiCERCA, Esch. 



A. Body elongate, elytra produced at tip into a prolonged mucro ; inter- 

 mediate tlbife of ^ dentate. 

 B. Elytral mucro simple. 



G. Thorax with two evident discoidal ridges. prolongaia. 



Cc. Thorax with scarcely visible ridges, brilliant geneous. 



divaricata. 

 Bb. Elytral mucro bidentate. pugionata. 



Aa. Apex of elytra not much produced, bidentate. 



B. Thorax and elytra uniform without elevated smooth ridges. 



obsctira, 

 Bb. Thorax and elytra uneven. 



C. % intermediate tibi^ dentate, front carinate. spreta, Lap. 

 Cc. % tibiae simple. 



B. Thorax broader than long, dilated in front. 



aspcrata. Lap. 

 Bd. Thorax longer than broad, lepida. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Aaa. Apex of elytra not produced, entire. 

 B. Last ventral segment not bicostate. 

 C. 9 liist segment tridcutate. 



B. % intermediate tibiae dentate. tenebrosa. 



Bd. % tibise simple. californica. 



Cc. 9 If^st segment rounded. 



B. Elytra irregularly tubcrculate. 



E. Greenish, thorax not very uneven. Mlaris. 



Ee. aeneous, thorax dilated in front strongly costate. 



tuierculata. 

 Bd. Elj'tra with traces of rows of punctures. 



E. Thorax hardly dilated, discoidal costaj straight, ap- 

 proximate, punctulata. 

 Ee. Thorax dilated in front, costae more dis. | luguhris. 

 tinct. j aexualii. 

 Bh. Last ventral segment bicostate, % apex truncate. pectorosa. 

 AA. Apex of elytra slightly produced, sutural angle mucronate. 



* Presternum sulcata. Hornii. 



** Prosternum convex. mutica. 



Poecilonota. P. erecla, Gory, is merely P. cyanipes, Say. 



Bupreslis. Linnpeus' name should be kept for this division of 

 the genus containing A. rustica. 



B.fasciata, Cy-jilagiata, and Lancjii should be placed in the second 

 group with the J' tibiie simple, and in my opinion must form 

 one species; at any rate B. fasciata and B. G-jylagiata are sexes, 

 while B. Langii differs a little in general form, but in no definite 

 vvay. Leconte's group above is most troublesome, and further 

 observations are still necessary to settle the species. In B. lineata 

 and B. consularis the prosternum is more or less yellow, and the 

 elytra bidentatc and in the others truncate; B. lasviventris has a 

 less strongly punctate abdomen,' though I do not lay great stress 

 on this ; B. aUernans=Nu(talli ; and all the immaculate species 

 certainly seem to me to form one species under the name B. ma- 

 culiventris, Say. The species allied to B. striata are equall}- un- 

 satisfactory. B. radia7is=:lauta J*, which is known from B. striata 

 by the smooth cosine ; but all transitions occur between costate 

 and striate examples, as in B. maculiventris. B. adjecta seems 

 to occur with tlie elytra truncate also, and one or two new inter- 

 mediate species exist in cabinet. 



Cinyra erythopa is recognized as exotic. 



Xenorhipis Brendeli, Lee, will have to be added here. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Melanophila opaca is, I consider, a unicolorous specimen of M. 

 notata. 



31. Drxtmmondi and 31. fulvosignata are usuall}^ verj'- distinct, 

 but some specimens from Michigan are verj^ intermediate in sculp- 

 ture. 



M. prasina, Lee. 



Tliis name being preoccupied is cbangcd by Leconte in the 

 'List" to 31. gentilis. 



Anthaxia. 



After carefull}' comparing all the six species of Leconte's group 

 A., I am unable to separate an}' of them specifically ; the glabrous 

 head of A. inomiata is merely individual, and probably abraded. 



The sexual differences arc very slight, and consist merely of a 

 more concave prosternum in the male. 



A. subaenea, Lee. L c. p. 216. 



This I take to be the 9 of A. viridifrons, Gory. 



A. quercata (Fnb.), Lee. L e. p. 217. 



This in like manner is the 9 A. cuneiformis, Gory. 



POLYCESTA. 



P. elata, cavafa, californica^ and obtusa appear to form one 

 variable species; P. obtusa is indeed a very small, probably abnor- 

 mal specimen. P. velasco is very distinct by its short subscutellar 

 costa. 



Ptosima, gibbicoUis, Say {luctnosa mict.). 



Say's name not being now preoccupied, it must be employed 

 for this species. 



ACMiEODERA. 



Several new species have been added to the list, and four or 

 five remain undescribed, but I am entirely unable to discover any 

 characters except. the variable ones of color, sculpture, and form; 

 so that the limits of species appear to be merely opinionative. 



Leconte's groups based on the abdominal crest are not very 

 safe, certainly A. texana has a well-marked crest, and must come 

 next to A. pulchella, of which it is hardly more than a variety. 

 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



A. ciilta [_tuhi(lus, Fab.], A. siihbaUeata, and A. hivittata, Horn, 

 are distinct b}' the very sliort setose white erect pubescence; A. 

 gibbulo is verj- distinct bj' the prosternum produced and truncate 

 in front; this is also somewhat tiie case witli A. comota; A. gut- 

 tifera is also very distinct by the last three segments of the abdo- 

 men being closelj' and densel}^ punctate. 



Chrysobothris. 



This genus, no less than the last, is a trouble to students, but 

 here the sexual characters va^y be brought in satisfactoril}-. C- 

 soroi'^ Leseu7'i, ob>^cura^ semisculpta, and misella seem to me all 

 referable to the protean C. femorata. C. calcarata^ C. ciipraa- 

 cens, and C. contigua form a little group with the J* tibiae den- 

 tate within. C. texana resembles these in sculpture, but has the J* 

 tibia? as in C. dentijjes. C. californica on\y differs from C. den- 

 tipes b}' the larger size and hairy prosternum in the male ; C. vul- 

 canica resembles C. trinerma very closely, and ma3' be only a 

 large female of it. C. debilis and disjuncta do not appear to me 

 separable. C. deleta has the ej-es more widelj' separated on the 

 vertex. C analis I refer as a variety to G. O-signata. C. Har- 

 riai and C. seneola are distinct by the eyes much less approxi- 

 mate. G. pinyurata^ Bland, is a color variety of G. seneola. 



Agrilus, Meg. 



The somewhat numerous species of this genus are difficult to 

 determine with accurac}' ; if, however, they were collected with 

 care, and the sexes carefully determined, the labor would be much 

 reduced. There are three or four species in collections which I 

 have not described for want of suflScieut material. The charac- 

 ters are not entirely similar to the European species, especially 

 the sexual ones, which here consist of a hairy prosternum and 

 front, and a more or less distinct channel on the first two seg- 

 ments of the abdomen. These segments are connate, but the suture 

 is visible at the side in one or two species. The dorsal surface of 

 the abdomen varies remarkabh- iu the species, and might very 

 possibly afford good cliaracters ; I have only used it for the keel 

 on the last segment, which occasionall}' projects. The claws are 

 bifid in some European species, but not in any American ones 

 that I have seen ; nevertheless they differ importantly, as pointed 

 out by Leconte in his paper. 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 91 



Agrilus. 



A(t. Claws -with the appendices contiguous. 

 Ba. Scutellum not carinate. 



Ca. Hind angles of the thorax not carinate. fuscipennis. 



Cb. Hind angles carinate. arcuatus. 



Bb. Scutellum carinate. 



Ca. Pygidium with an elevated carina produced behind. 



Da. % abdomen impressed. ruficollu. 



Bb. % abdomen simple, elytra bicostate. difficilis. 



Cb. Pygidium not carinate. 



Da. % segments 1-2 impressed. L. .13-.18. otiosus. 



Bb. % segments simple. L. .20-. 32. | torquatua. 



, '.fulgeiis. 

 Ab. Claws with the appendices distant. 



Ba. Scutellum carinate. 



Ca. Thorax and head coarsely punctate, % simple. 



Walsingliami. 

 Cb. Thorax and head rugulose. 



Da. Pj'gidium with a projecting carina. 

 Ea. Sides of thorax pubescent. 



Fa. Elytra with pubescent vittte or J ^*^'^<'^- 

 spots. ) rjranaHus. 



^subfasctatas. 

 Fb. Elytra blue-green. acuti^yennis. 



Fc. Elytra dull black. vittatocollis. 



Eb. Thorax and elytra uniformly and verj'^ sparingly 

 pubescent. 



Fa. Green, finely granulate. [ <'"'^'^- 



' anxius. 



Fb. Cupreous, coarsely granulate, thorax foveate. 



inacer. 

 Db. Pygidium simple. 



Ea. Elytra with patches of pubescence. 



Fa. Hind angles of thorax carinate. \fallax 



texana. 

 Kit 



.znterruptus. 



Fb. Hind angles not carinate. subcincius. 



Eb. Elytra uniform. 



Fa. Head deeply sulcate, % hardly impressed. 



addendus. 

 Fb. Head at most impressed. 



f egenus. 



I lacustris. 

 Ga. % segments impressed. \ imbellis. 



floridana. 

 _pubiveniris. 



Gb. ^ segments simple. ivlumheus. 



\ pohius. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Bb. Scutellnm not carinate. 



Ca. Elytra entire. muticus. 

 Cb. Elytra serrate at apex. 



Da. Elytra with pubescent spots. Couesii. 



Bb. Head deeply sulcate. pitlchellus. 



Dc. Head plane, elytra cupreous. obolinus. 



A. fuscipennis, Gory, Lee. 



Elytra hardly denticulate at the apex, % with the abdomen 

 simple, prosternum very hairj^, thorax with the hind angles not 

 carinate, scutellnm not carinate. 



A. arcuatus (Say), Lee. 



Prosternum sinuate in front, scutellnm not carinate. I liave not 

 seen the male. 



A. ruficollis (Fab.), Lee. 



Ver}' like the preceding, but distinct by the carinate thoracic 

 angles, and the dorsal carina of the abdomen, which is acute and 

 prominent ; the male has a channel on the 2d segment ; pros- 

 ternum not hairy. 



A. torquatus, Lee. 



% abdomen not impressed, prosternum hairy. 



A. fulgens, Lee. 



% 1st segment slightl}^ imi)resscd at its apex, prosternum 

 hairy. 



A. obliquus, Lee. 



This is founded on a single 9 , which I am disposed to refer to 

 A. fulgena. 



A. otiosus (Say), Lee. 



% with segments 1-2 impressed, prosternum pilose, front 

 opaque green, pilose. A. geminatus. Say, belongs here, from his 

 description. 



A. defectus, Lee. 



This is founded on rather large females of A. otiosus. 

 A. pusillus, Lee. 



Founded on one female specimen which I cannot separate from 

 A. otiosus. 



A. diflficilis, Gory, Lee. 



Elytra faintly bicostate ; prosternum triangularly emarginatc 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



in front, dorsal carina acute, projecting ; % witli the abdomen 

 simple, front and prosternum pubescent. 



A. bilineatus (Weber), Lee. 



Dorsal carina acute, projecting ; % prosternum not pilose ; 2d 

 segment channelled. 



A. granulatus (Say), Lee. 



Dorsal carina acute, projecting ; % front and prosternum pubes- 

 cent. 



A. biguttatus, Gory, Lee. 



This is evidently identical with the preceding, as is also A. 

 zemes, Gor^'. 



A. subfasciatus, || Lee. 



% with a pubescent fovea on the 1st segment, dorsal carina 

 projecting. 



This name has been changed to A. Lecontii, by Saunders in 

 his Catalogus Buprestidarum. 



A. fallax (Say), Lee. 



% front green, opaque, pubescent, prosternum pilose ; 2d seg- 

 ment with a broad pubescent fovea. 



A. interruptus, Lee. 



Very like the preceding, but the prosternum is sinuate in front. 

 A. subcinctus, Gory, Lee. 



% abdomen simple. 

 A. acutipennis, Mann. Intebrus, Lap., Lee. 



Dorsal carina projecting, 1st ventral suture visible at the sides, 

 % front pubescent, 2d segment deeply impressed. 



A. torpidus, Lee. 



Prosternum sinuate in front, dorsal carina projecting, % 2d 

 segment with a well-defined unpunctate channel. 



A. anxius, Gory, Lee. 



Very close to the preceding, but prosternum entire in front ; 

 % similar. 



A. pulchellus, Bland. 



9 . Elongate, above with the head, thorax, scutellum, and suture 

 of the elytra violet-blue, their margins brilliant coppery; antennie 

 short, stout, the third joint evidentlj^ triangular ; head very deeply 

 sulcate, rugose, pubescent ; thorax rugose, sides and median line 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pubescent ; angles with a faint carina parallel to the sides ; scu- 

 tellum rugose, not carinate ; el^'tra imbricate; body beneath 

 bluish-black, densel3^ clothed with yellowish pubescence. L. .37. 

 Colorado (Leconte). 



Claws separate, prosternum not sinuate in front ; elytra rounded, 

 slightly serrate, ventral segments with the suture almost apparent. 



A. Couesii, Lee. 



Elongate, golden-green, head dcepl}' sulcate, but with two ob- 

 long tubercles between the eyes ; thorax subtransverse, with ver}' 

 deep medial groove rugose at the bottom (the ridges smooth), 

 front angles produced, sides thickl}' flavo-pubescent, carina strong, 

 curved ; scutellum smooth, with a deep punctate fovea occupying 

 the middle ; elytra rugose punctate, with a smooth violet dorsal 

 carina, not quite reaching the apex; the sutural groove is pubes- 

 cent, except two spots, one after the other, before the apex, the 

 outer groove bare and more coarsel}' punctate, apex acuteh' ser- 

 rate ; sterna pubescent, abdomen shining, scarcely' punctate in the 

 middle, sides with densely pubescent spots. L. .42. Arizona 

 (Cones). 



Identified Avith A. perlucidus^ Gory, b}"- H. Deyrolle, but only 

 the type could render such identification possible. 



Prosternum flat, not depressed behind. 



A. tezanus, sp. n. 



9. Yer}' closely allied to A. Couesii, but copperj'^ above; head 

 with the tubercles more developed, so as to leave a frontal pit ; 

 thorax uniformly rugose, carina much fainter, sides not pubes- 

 cent, scutellum carinate; elytra more sparingly punctate, simi- 

 larly pubescent. Sides of metasternum and a lateral spot on the 

 third segment only pubescent. L. .38. Texas (Leconte). 



A. floridanus, sp. n. 



Allied to A. interruptus, Lee, but front narrow, deeply sulcate ; 

 thorax strongly rugose, carina well marked; elytra not sulcate, 

 but with three pubescent spots, one basal, one before the middle, 

 and at three-fourths near the suture ; ventral segments punctulate, 

 last three witli lateral pubescence. L. .30. Florida (Horn). 



J*. Prosternum hairy, first segment Avith an elongate pubes- 

 cent fovea. 



A. imbellis, sp. n. 



Closely allied to A. egenus, but rather broader, entirely uni- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



formly neneous ; thorax strong!}' iind regularly rugose, the carina 

 evident, not widel}' divergent from the margin ; elytra hardi}'' 

 grooved longitudinally. L. .21. Florida (Horn). 



^ First and second ventral segments with a pubescent impres- 

 sion, prosternum with long white hairs, front shining, strongly 

 punctate as in the female ; dilfers from A. egenus by its male cha- 

 racters. 



A. pubiventris, sp. n. 



Bright green, sometimes slightly fieneous; head flat, thorax 

 longer than broad, uniformly rugose, with a faint medial channel, 

 cariuit' not acute, nearly'- parallel to the sides; elytra uniform, 

 closely imbricate, apex distinctly serrate, under surface shining, 

 ventral segments sparingly rugosely punctulate. L. .24. Texas. 



% First two segments with a rather deep pubescent channel me- 

 tasternum and prosternum, also strongly pubescent ; front opaque 

 pubescent. 



A. addendus, sp. n. 



Elongate, subcupreous above, sparsely and shortly pubescent ; 

 head rather deeply sulcate, thorax longer than broad, medial im- 

 pression obsolete, carina acute, long; elytra transversely rugu- 

 lose, with a shallow sutural imi)ression, pubescence showing a 

 tendency to form, a basal and subapical spot; prosternum entire 

 in front. L. .24. Texas (Belfrage). 



% First two segments with a faint impression, prosternum and 

 front pubescent. 



A. Walsinghami, sp. n. 



Elongate, cylindrical, bluish-green or cupreous, spotted with 

 white pubescence ; front narrow, sulcate, coarsely punctate ; 

 tliorax subtransverse, deeply channelled in the middle (the ridges 

 nearly smooth) lateral impressions deep, carina obtuse, not de- 

 fined, surface coarsely punctate, punctures confluent at the sides ; 

 scutellum carinate, elytra scabrous, each with two raised costa?, 

 and four pubescent spots ; one elongate at the base, two (one before 

 the middle, one towards the apex) between the first two costtu, 

 one a little behind the middle, outside the second costai ; top ser- 

 rate ; sides of pro- and raeta-sternum thickly clothed witii while 

 pubescence, and a lateral white spot on the sides of segments 2-5. 

 L. .50. Oregon (Walsingham), California (Horn). 



^ abdomen simple, not impressed. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



The two connate segments ai'e quite distinct at the sides in this 

 species, which is easily known from all others by the punctate 

 thorax. 



A. vittato collis (Rand.), Bost. J. 



Elongate, black, opaque, head deepl}' and broadly sulcate, 

 bright cupreous, thickly clothed with orange pubescence ; thorax 

 subtrausverse, rugulose, hind angles not carinate, bright cupreous, 

 sides and deep medial channel clothed with orange pubescence ; 

 scutellum carinate; elj'tra closely granulate, opaque; beneath 

 subcupreous, finely and closel}' puuctulatc, withvcr}' short pubes- 

 cence; prosternum concave behind, the hind angles acutely ele- 

 vated. L. .35. Massachusetts. 



% 1st ventral segment faintly, 2d distinctly impressed ; last 

 segment truncate or faintly emarginate. 



Dorsal carina strongly projecting. 



A. putillus, Say, Tr. Phil. Soc, vi. 162. 



Elongate, seneous, shining, head sulcate (but not deeply so) ; 

 thorax broader than long, sides oblique, middle faintly channelled, 

 angles not carinate ; scutellum carinate, elytra broadly grooved 

 along the suture ; prosternum deeply sinuate in front, abdominal 

 segments sparingly punctate, pygidiura not carinate. L. .14. 

 Canada (Horn). 



This agrees very well with Saj-'s description, as pointed out to 

 me by Di*. Horn. 



Taphrocerus agriloides, sp. n. 



Subelongate, a^ntious, head very sparingly punctate, with an 

 impressed line on the front ; thorax alutaceous, transverse, sides 

 straight, coarsely and sparsely punctate, base with a rounded 

 median lobe ; elj'tra deepl}' punctate striate, the punctures decreas- 

 ing towards the apex. L. .14. Texas (Belfrage). 



In appearance ver}^ like Agrilus putillus. 



Braciiys. 



B. lugubris, Lee, is the true B. tessellaia, Fab. ; B. Isevicauda is 

 considered a variety of B. ovafa ; Melshemier's name serosa must 

 be restored to B. (einninaus, J Lap. The Fabrician species being 

 S. American. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. 9t 



February 4. 

 Mr. Vaux, Yice-Presiclent, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : 



" On the Lingual Dentition of Certain Terrestrial Pulraonata 

 from the United States, with remarks on their systematic value." 

 By Thos. Bland and Wm. G. Binney. 



" Catalogue of the recent species of the Class Brachiopocla." 

 By W. H. Dall, TJ. S. C. S. 



" Descriptions of Mexican Ichneumonidee." By E. T. Cresson. 



Notice of Bemaivf! of Fifthes in the IhHdgey^ Tertiary Forma- 

 tion of Wyoming. Prof. Leidy remarked that among the multi- 

 tude of fossils which had been collected from the tertiary clays 

 and sandstones of the Bridger Group of Wyoming, there were com- 

 paratively few pertaining to fishes. Nevertheless the remains of 

 these are not unfrequent, but they are not so com})lete as one 

 might have expected from the nature of the beds containing them. 

 They usuallj" occur as isolated bones, scales and teeth, and mostly 

 Indicate fishes related Avith our living Gars (^LejDidosteus), and 

 Mud Fish (Amia). 



Prof. Marsh has already noticed several species of these fishes 

 in the Proceedings of this Academy, 18*71, p. 105, from the Bridger 

 beds. Two of the species belong "to the genus Amia, about the 

 size of the modern A. calua.,^' the others indicate two species of 

 Lepidosteus, "both having smooth scales and about the same size 

 as the modern gar-pike." 



The specimens submitted to our examinations from time to time 

 consist of isolated vertebral centra, ganoid scales, fragments of 

 jaws with teeth, and portions of spines. Many of these appear to 

 indicate the following extinct species previously undescribed : 



Lepidosteus atrox. Founded on remains, obtained in Prof. 

 Hayden's expedition of 18T0, at the junction of the Big Sandy and 

 Green Rivers. They indicate a fish larger than the Alligator Gar 

 of the Mississii)pi. A vertebral centrum from near the middle of 

 the dorsal series is S^ lines long. It is flat beneath and ornate 

 with longitudinal and somewhat reticulate wrinkles. The para- 

 poplyscs are proportionately' narrower than in the Alligator Gar. 

 The accompanying scales have their ganoid surface perfectly 

 smooth, flat, and without markings, and they arc thicker than in 

 the Alligator Gar. 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Lepidosteus. Another species, indicated b}' remains accom- 

 pan3-ing tlie preceding, was about the size of the Gar pike, Lepi- 

 dosteus osseus^ and is propably one of those named b}' Prof. 

 Marsh. A posterior dorsal lias the centrum about 5;] lines in 

 length, and an accompanying caudal centrum is 5 lines in length. 

 This was likewise provided with smooth flat scales. 



Lepidosteus simplex. A species approximating in size the 

 Alligator Gar, is indicated b}- some remains collected b}- James 

 Stevenson, of Prof. Hay den's party of 1870, near Washakie Station. 

 The articular cup of the basi-occipital bone is five lines high and 

 ten linrs wide. The centrum of the atlas is four lines long and 

 ten lines wide. The accompanying scales arc flat and smooth. 



Lepidosteus notabilis. Founded on the centrum of an anterior 

 doraal imbedded in a block of sandstone with casts of fresh-Avater 

 shells, from near Wasliakie. The size of the centrum is about 

 equal to a corresponding one of the Alligator Gar, but the para- 

 l)oplyses are proportionately short. The under surface of the 

 centrum is broad, flat, and marked with longitudinal furcate 

 ridges. The sides are perpendicular, and not slanting as in the 

 Alligator Gar. The length of the centrum is 8 lines. 



Amia (Protamia) uintaensis. Lidicated by vertebral centra, 

 discovered by Dr. J. Van A. Carter, near Dry Creek Canon. The 

 fish was proportionately broader in relation with its length than 

 in the living Mud-fish, and was very much larger. The centruui 

 of an anterior dorsal is about double the length, and four times the 

 breadth of the same bone in Amia calva. The two ridges at the 

 bottom of the centrum in the latter are substituted by two oval 

 fossje. The length of the centrum is about 5^ lines, its height an 

 inch and a quarter, and its breadth an inch and three-quarters. 



An atlas, probably belonging to the same species, flat in front 

 and cupped behind, has nearl}'^ the same size. 



Amia (Protamia) media. Lidicated by remains from the junc- 

 tion of the Sandy and Green Rivers, collected in Ilayden's expe- 

 dition of 1870. A vertebral centrum from near the forepart of 

 the dorsal series, indicates a species about twice the size of Amia 

 calva. A pair of fossre at the bottom of the centrum substitute 

 the two ridacs in the latter. The length of the centrum is 5i 

 lines, its height 10 lines, and its breadth 13 lines. 



Amia (Protamia) (Jracilis. A smaller species than Amia calva, 

 indicated by a middle dorsal centrum. Its length is 1.18 lines, its 

 height 3.4 lines, and its width 3.8 lines. 



Hypamia elegans. a related genus to Amia is indicated by 

 a vertebral contrum, discovered by Dr. Carter on Dry Creek. The 

 specimen from the middle of the dorsal series, has its sides con- 

 vergent below in a median [>rominence excavated into a pair of 

 oval fossie. The species was rather larger than .1. calva. The 

 length of the centrum is 2.2 lines, its depth G.5 lines, and its 

 breadth 7.G lines. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



PiMELODUS ANTiQuus. Indicated b}- many fragments of pec- 

 toral spines and fragments of jaws, fonnd with remains of Le- 

 pidosteus atrox^ etc., at the junction of the Big Sand}' and Green 

 Rivers. The size of the species was from a foot to eighteen 

 inclies. 



PiiAREODUS ACUTUS. Represented by a number of jaw frag- 

 ments with teeth found in association with the remains above 

 noticed, at the junction of the Big Sandy and Green Rivers. The 

 dentary bone contains a single closel\' crowded row of long cylin- 

 dro-conical teeth, witliout an^' small ones behind. The shaft of the 

 teeth is straight and not curved as in Amia, but the short conical 

 points are abrupt!}' bent inwardly. The premaxillaries contain a 

 similar row of teeth, but with the points scarcely bent, Xine 

 teeth occupy a space of seven and a half lines in a fragment of 

 a dentary bone, the longest tooth being 2i lines. Seven teeth 

 occupy a space of seven lines in a fragment of a preraaxillary, the 

 first of the series being 3 lines long. 



February 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan presented an apple, which was borne by a 

 tree at Kittaning, in Pennsjdvania, and which tree never produced 

 an 3^ flowers in the popular acceptation of the term ; but always 

 yielded an abundance of fruit. Mr. M. said there was no novelty 

 in this circumstance, as similar cases had been placed on record ; 

 but the specimen furnished a practical illustration of some mor- 

 phological truths which could not often be demonstrated in the 

 way tliis afforded the opportunity of doing. 



It was admitted that a fruit was a branch with its accessory 

 leaves, transformed. The apple fruit was made up of a series of 

 whorls of leaves comprising five each. Cutting an apple through 

 we found a series of five formed the carpels containing the seeds. 

 Several series of whorls, very much retarded in development, 

 probably formed the stamens, but this could not be well seen in 

 the apple fruit, as they seemed to be almost absorbed in the 

 corolla series. This was the next in order that appeared in tlie 

 divided apple the green curved fibrous line which we find in all 

 apples midway between the "core" and the "rind" is the divid- 

 ing line between the series which forms the corolla, and the outer 

 series whicli forms the calyx. In this tree theio are no pistils, tlie 

 series which usually goes to make up this part of the fruit struc- 

 ture being either very rudimentary or entirely wanting. Hence 

 there was no "core" to the fruit. The result of this want of de- 

 velopment was that the usual calyx basin of the apple was in 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



this case occupied by a cavity three-quarters of au iuch across. 

 There were no petals; but in place five gland or rather bud-scale- 

 like processes, at regular distances, on the edge of the green 

 fibrous outline before referred to. The outer whorl, which usually 

 forms tlie cal\-x, was almost ascpalous, as a mere scarious mem- 

 brane marked the place Avhere the calyx segments or sepals 

 should have appeared. It was so eas}^ in this specimen to trace 

 the diA'iding line between the outer or calycine whorl and the 

 inner or corolline whorl, which uniting and becoming succulent 

 formed the popular apple fruit, that it was worthy' of note iu this 

 connection. 



13 ut the most interesting feature in this specimen was what were 

 probably, from their similarity in appearance, cork cells, formed 

 abundantly on the outside of the apple. It would seem, that, with 

 the lack of development in the inner series of whorls necessary 

 to the perfect fruit, those which remained were liable to take on 

 somewhat the character of bark structure. 



Dr. Leconte mentioned that he had published in the Proceed- 

 ings for December, 1866, a paper entitled " List of Coleoptera col- 

 lected near Fort Whipple, Arizona, b}' Dr. Elliott Cones, U. S. A., 

 in 1864-65." He had recently received a letter from Dr. Edward 

 Palmer, stating that tlie specimens had been collected mostl}' by 

 the latter, and in accordance with the desire of Dr. P. the fact was 

 now recorded. 



February 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent^'-seven members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 "Description of Mexican Ichneumonidge, Part II." By E. T. 

 Cresson. 



Mr. Thomas Meeiian presented specimens of leaves of a Begonia 

 on which minute folioles appeared as denseh' as hair all over the 

 upper surface, while the leaf was on tlie growing plant. Tiie 

 little growtlis first aitpoared as succulent hairs, and tliese hair-like 

 processes subsequently divided or produced the leafy blades from 

 their apices. 



Mr. M. remarked that hairs were at any rate structurally but 

 graded thorns, of whicli bristles were an intermediate stage. 

 Spines often bore leaves, l)ut it was unusual for thorns to do so. 

 It might not be that these leaf-bearing jirocesses were really hairs 

 though they had that appearance. 



He further observed tliat last j-ear he called the attention of 

 the Academy to the fact that in some Scrophulariaceous plants, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



such as Torenia and Mhnulus^ihe, bilobed flattened stigmas closed 

 when touched, as did the leaf of Dionata muscipula. He had re- 

 centl}' noticed that the divided pistil of Tecoma jasminoides had 

 the same power. Wlien touclied Avith its own pollen it closed at 

 once, and remained closed ; but if touched with any foreign sub- 

 stance it opened again after the lapse of a short time. The Big- 

 noniacea? were closel,y allied to Scrophulariacese at any rate, and 

 the plants of each might be expected to possess this power. 



He also said that, as was Avell known, the violet and the balsam 

 (Impatiens) produced two distinct forms of flowers one with a 

 corolla and the other without the former producing them under- 

 ground. It was remarkable that these secretly produced (cleisto- 

 genous) flowers, in which there was no opportunit}^ for anything 

 but self-fertilization, sliould be more fertile than those which had 

 the most abundant opportunities of aitl from wind, insects, and 

 other favoring influences. The Catalonian jasmine of our green- 

 houses was another illustration of this phenomenon. He had ob- 

 served, and no doubt others had often done the same, for many 

 years past, that there Avas a great tendency to a supposed abor- 

 tion of the flowers in this plant. But this year he had some plants 

 which failed to produce a single perfect flower. To his astonish- 

 ment these plants were covered with developing seed-vessels, while 

 in tlie plants producing perfect flowers there was no sign of any 

 such tendency. On examining these imperfect flowers he found a 

 miniatui'e corolla was formed, but so closely twisted together that 

 it could not open, and always remained inside the calyx-segments. 

 The pistils in these flowers were diflferently formed from those in 

 the pc'fect ones. The last have the two segments of the bilobed 

 pistil coiled in a spiral manner ; tlie former has no appearance of 

 any division, but seem united into a small cone. In many cases 

 the style was somewhat flattened, and there appeared to be a stig- 

 matic surface along eacli edge. It appeared from liis examination 

 that there was very little pollen in the anthers of these flowers, 

 and the apex of the pistil was pushed beyond them, and the idea 

 occurred to him. that possibly fertilization might occur by the way 

 of the stigmatic edge before referred to. 



Mr. Thomas G. Gentry called the attention of the Academy to 

 what he considered to be an interesting case of a change of habits 

 which had recently' occurred in tlie life of an ordinar3' chickaree, 

 the Sciniis /;r/f/ouiu.s of Pallas. During the early part of last 

 autumn, his attention was called to the fact that the birds in 

 a certain designated localit}'' of Mount Airy, during the hours 

 of the night, were undergoing a system of wliolesale destruction, 

 the work of small animals which were supposed to belong to some 

 species of Carnivore. Laboring under this impression, and being 

 desirous of securing a specimen or tw^o, he started for tiie scene 

 of slaughter, bent upon discovering the name and character 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of the animal; when within a few rods of the place, the almost 

 deafening noise that greeted his ears, from the tall trees, led him 

 to suspect that all was not right. After reaching the spot, a few 

 moments of anxious waiting sufUced to reveal to him the cause 

 of the noise and the origin of the sacrifice above alluded to; for, 

 sitting u[)on a twig just over his head, he observed a chickaree, 

 holding in its paws a bird which it had captured, and from Avhich 

 it was very contentedly sucking the life current. 



It is a well-established fact, lie furtlier remarked, as fiir as he 

 had been able to verify it, that the numerous species of Rodents, 

 with but two exceptions at tiie most, subsist principally or entirelj'' 

 upon vegetable matter, especially the hard parts of plants, such 

 as nuts, bark, and roots. 



Tills habit of imitating the propensities of the Mustelidae, he 

 thought might have arisen from the habit which some squirrels 

 possess, possibly the one under consideration, of sucking the eggs 

 of birds; the blood-sucking habit, he assumed to be an outgrowth 

 from the other. 



This adoption of another's mode of life by S. hudsonius, he 

 thought a discovery of some note, as usurpation of habits, lead- 

 ing to functional and structural changes in an animal's economy, 

 is accounted an element of no mean weight in the development 

 hypothesis, according to the testimony of able writers upon 

 Evolution. 



Prof. Cope exhibited the cranium of the horned Proboscidian 

 of Wyoming, Lo.volophodon cortmtiis^ and made some remarks on 

 its aflinities. The short-footed Ungulates or Proboscidia. are re- 

 presented by two very different families in the Eocene formations 

 of North America, the Eohasiliidse and Bathmodontidse. The first 

 embraces four known genera, as follows: 



1. Nasal bones with flat horizontal horn-cores ovei'hanging their 

 apex. 



Cervical vertebrae short; malar bone much reduced in front. 



Loxolophodon. 



2. Nasal bones with small tuberosities. 



Cervical vertebrae short. Eobasileus. 



Cervical vertebrae longer; the malar bone reaching maxillary 



face. Uintatherium. 



3. Nasal bones without the anterior horn-cores. 



Cervicals ? Megaceratops. 



Of the above genera there are five well-determined species, viz.: 

 L. cornutus, Cope; B. pressico7'nis^ Cope; U. 7'obuslu)n, Leidy; 

 U. lacustre, Marsh ; and il/. color adoensis, Leidy. E. furcatus, 

 Cope, and U. mirabile, Marsh, would, porha])S, have to be added. 



There are two genera of Bathmodonlidoc, as follows: 



One posterior molar with two transverse crests. Baihmodon. 



Three posterior cross-crested molars. Metalophodon. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Of this family four species are known, viz. : Bathmodon radians, 

 Cope; B. semicinctus, Cope; B. brempes, Cope; ^letalophodon 

 armalus, Cope. 



February 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj'-five members present. 



The death of Commodore John P. Gillis, U.S.X., was announced. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 

 Harry F. Baxter, M.D., Alfred Moore, John M. Hartman. 



On report of the committees, the following papers were ordered 

 to be printed : i 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTIONS OF MEXICAN ICHNEUMONID^. 

 BY E. T. CRESSON. 



Most of the species described and enumerated in this paper 

 were collected by Prof. F. Sumichrast in the environs of Orizaba 

 and Cordova, and by him presented to the American Entomological 

 Societ}", in whose collection the types are to be found. To the 

 late Dr. Charles Sartorius the Society is also indebted for many 

 new and interesting species collected b}^ him in the neighborhood 

 of Mirador. 



The collection is exceedingly rich in species, especially of the 

 subfamilies Ichneumonides, Cryptides, Ophionides, and Pimp- 

 lides ; and those belonging to the genera Ichneumon and Mesos- 

 tenus are very numerous and variable in form, structure, etc. 

 Many of the species are handsome in ornamentation and brilliant 

 in color. 



Genus ICHNEUMON, Linn. 



Subgenus Patroclus. 



This subgenus is at once distinguished from that of Ichneumon 

 by the ungues being pectinate. The form is rather slender ; the 

 head flat, triangular when viewed in front; the cheeks not at all 

 prominent; the antennae long and slender, and not involute in 9, 

 and the scutellum convex or subconvex; ovipositor scarcely or 

 not at all exserted. Only three species are known to me, and may 

 be separated as follows : 



Bodj^ entirely blue-black 1. nigrocceruletis. 



Body yellow, nuich marked above with black 2. lectus. 



Body honey-yellow, abdomen fasciate with black 3. toltecus. 



1. Patroclus nigrocaeruleus, n..=p. 



9. ]>hie-l)luek ; thorax deep Itluc, abdomen tinged with green- 

 ish in certain liglits ; antennae black, with a broad, yellowisli- 

 white annnlus ; wings violaeeus-black ; anterior tibia? yellowish 

 in front. Thorax densely and strongly punctured ; metathorax 

 densely rugulose, the elevated lines not well-defined; wings ample, 

 areolet 5-angular ; legs slender; abdomen elongate, convex, finely 

 and closely punctured ; first segment dilated at tip, which is finely 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



aciculate ; basal fovaj (gastrocoeli) of second segment large, deep, 

 and obliquely striated. Length G lines. 

 Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 121.) 



2. Fatroclus lectus. 



Ichneumon lectus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 18, % J. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, Xo. G.) 



3. Fatroclus toltecus. 



Ichneumon toltecus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 17, 'J, 9- 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 32 9,136 %.) The antennae of the 

 % are black, with the scape ferruginous. 



Subgenus Ichneumon. 



In this subgenus are included a large number of species vary- 

 ing greatly in form, but with such intermediation that no line to 

 divide them even into subgenera can be drawn. The head in 

 some species is large, broad, and buccate, but is gradually re- 

 duced to a small, flat, triangular form. The antennae vary from 

 robust, involute (9), with very short, almost moniliform, joints, 

 to a very slender form, not at all involute (9), with elongate 

 joints, and sometimes slightly dilated near the apex, as in Joppa. 

 The scutellum varies from being perfectly flat, through convex, 

 conical, to spinose, and even bispinose, with all intermediate 

 grades. So also with the metathorax, which varies from being 

 rounded, with no appearance of lateral protuberances, to truncate 

 behind, with long and acute lateral spines. The species having 

 the last character, together with a slender form, were formerly 

 referred to Hoplismenus ; but since the examination of so many 

 intermediate forms, it is quite impossible to draw a dividing line 

 between it and Ichneumon ; therefore, no attempt is made here 

 to divide the species into subgenera. 



The following diagnostic table will assist in determining the 

 species : 



Scutellum flat, suhconvex, or convex: 

 Body entirely honey-yellow or ferruginous : 

 Large ; scutellum flat above, lateral margin carinate, sides abrupt ; 

 metathorax without spines ; antenuoe black, with white an- 



nuUis in 9 8. dilucidus. 



Medium; scutellum-perfectly flat, sides not abrupt; metathorax Avith 

 short acute spines; antennfe, 9? tricolored, ferruginous, 



white and black 9. ablutus. 



8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Small ; scutellum convex, sides abrupt ; metathorax -without spines ; 



antenna; % black, -n-ith a -white annulus 11. frivolus. 



Body honej'-yello-n' or ferruginous, slightly marked "uith black : 

 Ferruginous ; black band at base of third abdominal segment ; an- 

 tennae 9 black, -with -n'hite annulus and red nt base ; -n'ings 



yello-v\'-hj'aline ; posterior legs ferruginous 10. passivus. 



Ferruginous ; black band at base of second and third abdominal 

 segments ; -wings yellowish, banded -with fuliginous ; antenna', 



% 9 5 tricolored IG. cupidus. 



Ferruginous ; black band at base of second and third abdominal seg- 

 ments ; posterior legs mostly black ; -wings yello-wish, of 'J, 

 dusky at base and apex ; anteunoe, % 9 i tricolored. 



14. izucarus. 

 Ferruginous ; abdominal segments constricted at base ; -nings black- 

 ish, -with a broad submediau yello-sv band 15. arrogans. 



Body yello-w, abdomen entirely so : 

 Spots on vertex and occiput, a spot on anterior margin of mesothorax, 

 a line on each side over tegulse, and the antennae, black. 



13. citrinus. 

 Spot on vertex, mesothorax except four yellow stripes, and the an- 

 tennae, black ; thorax yello-w, legs and abdomen honey-yello-w. 



12. additus. 

 Body black ; abdomen yello"-, v:hh black band on third and fourth seg- 

 ments ; legs honej'-yello-w, apex of posterior femora black ; 



anteunse tricolored ; scutellum yello-w 45. placitus. 



Head and thorax black ; abdomen ferruginous : 



Head and thorax entirely black 2. meridionalis. 



Head and thorax marked more or less -with -white : 

 Metathorax -without spines : 

 Large ; scutellum perfectly tlat, margined with white ; metatiiorax 



entirely black 3. mexicanus. 



Small ; scutellum flat above, with two white spots, sides abrupt ; 

 meso- and metathorax entirely black ; abdomen short, ovate. 



4. totonacus. 

 Metathorax with two spines : 



Small ; scutellum flat, with two white spots ; mesothorax -with two 

 short white discal lines, and metathorax with two white apical 



spots ; abdomen short, ovate, immaculate 5. otomitus. 



Small ; scutellum rather flat, white ; mesothorax black ; metatho- 

 rax red ; abdomen % elongate, polished, more or less blackish 

 on three basal segments above ; of 9 immaculate. 



7. ciiriatus. 



Medium ; scutellum subconvex, sides abrupt, red at base, white at 



tip ; metathorax entirely red; posterior tibiae black, their tarsi 



white G. chiapus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Rather large, slender ; scutellmn rather flat, white, sides abrupt ; 

 mesothorax opaque, with white spot on each side over tegula^ ; 

 metathorax with long acute spines, and with a broad black T 



mark above 65. rixosus. 



Body metallic blue-green ; legs ferruginous ; antenna black, with white 

 annulus ; scutellum flat above with white spot, carinate la- 

 terally, sides abrupt 64. virescens. 



Body black ; apex of abdomen and legs, except apex of posterior femora 

 and tibia3, yellow ; antenn.ie black with white annulus ; scu- 

 tellum flat in 9 , convex in % 1. couicus. 



Body dull-black, opaque ; orbits, scutellum, two stripes on metathorax, 

 and narrow band on two or three basal segments of abdomen, 

 white ; costal margin of anterior Avings fuscous. 



17. opaculus. 

 Body deep black ; abdomen long and subcylindrical ; with apical margin 



of first and second segments white 18. junceus. 



Body black, marked with white or yellowish ; abdomen with white or 

 yellow and black bands on all the segments: 

 Metathorax without prominent lateral tubercles : 

 Mesothorax with a white or yellow discal spot : 



Line on posterior femora above and their tibise except tips, black, 



their tarsi yellow 37. Cholula. 



Apex of posterior femora and tibiae, and their tarsi black. 



53. amecus. 

 Mesothorax with discal lines abbreviated : 

 Abdomen long, parallel, coarsely sculptured, gastrocoeli large and 



very deep 36. prolixus. 



Abdomen shorter, finely and densely punctured, gastrocoeli small, 

 deep ; pleura yellow, with a longitudinal black stripe. 



19. zapotecus. 

 Abdomen polished, with second segment finely and densely punc- 

 tured ; gastrocoeli small, punctiform ; thorax with three large 



lateral white spots 23. tepanecus. 



Abdomen entirely polished, impunctured ; gastrocoeli subobsolete ; 

 thorax with two large lateral white marks, the anterior one 



larger and oblique 31. zacatecus. 



Abdomen long, rather slender, granulated, gastrocoeli large, deep : 



Posterior thighs black above and within 40. Toluca. 



Posterior thighs entirely honey-yellow 41. Chalco. 



Abdomen elongate, depressed ; metathorax except basal suture or 



a basal median black spot, yellow 53. paraudus. 



Mesothorax with discal lines entire : 

 Metathorax with a central black stripe and slender lateral line. 



59. centrosu3. 



Metathorax with a central black stripe and a lateral sub-basal Mack 



spot 58. decorosus. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Metathorax with only a central black stripe : 



Posterior femora entirely black 54. abaculus. 



Posterior femora black at tips and on upper edge. . 60. jugiosus. 



Posterior femora entirely yellow oo. abitus. 



Metathorax yellow, with only a black dot on basal middle, most of 



abdomen yellow, with narrow black bands 50. durus. 



Metathorax with arcuate blackish line at base, extending down on 



each side, and an elongate spot at apex 63. monitus. 



Metathorax with two black basal spots : 



Antennae % entirely black above 50. chichimecus. 



Antennae % with yellowish anuulus 01. limitaris. 



Metathorax with two oblique black lines, dilated above ; antennas' 



short, very slender toward tips 62. tenuicornis. 



Metathorax with three large black spots above, posterior spot the 



larger; abdomen polished ; posterior tibia? black. 46. epicus. 



IMetathorax with three black spots above, the two basal ones 



largest ; abdomen opaque 39. excuratus. 



Metathorax with a central, apical, and tAvo confluent black spots ; 



hind tibiae Avith exterior edge black 38. zaptlauus. 



Metathorax black above, divided by narrow yellow lines into several 

 elongate spots ; hind femora and tibiae black at tips. 



57. Alvarado. 

 Metathorax with two short lines at base ; abdomen long, slender, 

 cylindrical, posterior legs honey -yellow, tarsi yellow. 



51. teres. 

 Mesothorax with a short white line on each side over the tegulrc : 



Scutellum black, with lateral margin white 20. encaiistus. 



Scutellum entirely white 22. Parredes. 



Mesotliorax entirely black : metathorax black witli a large yellow 



discal mark 44. ignarus. 



Metathorax with prominent lateral tubercles or spines : 



Mesothorax with white discal spot 68. picturatus. 



Mesothorax with discal lines abbreviated : 



Posterior tibia? entirely black, their tarsi white, with most of basal 



joint black 32. Arista. 



Posterior tibifle yellow, apex black, their tarsi yellow. 



24. subsplnoBus. 

 Posterior tibifc entirely fulvous : 

 Basal segment of abdomen Avithapex white ; metathorax black 

 at base and down middle to apex, three small white spots on 



basal margin 25. actuosus. 



Basal segment of abdomen with apex white ; metathorax above 

 with two longitudinal black lines from base to spines, and a 



central apical black line 33. maritus. 



Basal segment of abdomen with apex yellow, second segment 

 with two oblique black stripes confluent at base ; metathorax 

 with two large black spots near base 48. abjectus 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Basal segment of abdomen vritli apex black ; metathorax with 

 two dilated longitudinal black lines above ; head unusually 



large 49. cephalotes. 



Basal segment of abdomen with two apical yellow spots. 



G9. dissonus. 

 Mesothorax with discal lines entire : 

 Metathorax broadly black at base ; posterior femora at tips and 



within, and apex of their tibioc, black 42. inoratus. 



Metathorax broadly black at base ; posterior femora fulvous, apex 



slightly black, their tibise yellow, black at tips 43. mendicus. 



Metathorax with four black dots on basal middle ; posterior legs 



yellow, with femora black 47. nigrofemoratus. 



Metathorax with three slender black stripes, connected above spines 

 with a broad black band ; posterior femora and tibife with 



black line above 6G. munitus. 



Mesothorax with a curved line, dilated anteriorly, on each side over 



tegul* G7. propinquus. 



Mesothorax with a spot, or a straight line on each side over tegula? : 



Metathorax entirely black, mesothorax opaque 70. minax. 



Metathorax black, with two small spots at base, two elongate ones 

 beneath spines, and a large round one on flanks, all white ; 



mesothorax polished 26. Nestor. 



Metathorax wdth a broad, cruciform black mark above, slightly in- 

 terrupted below the transverse bar ; mesothorax shining. 



34. Tuxtla. 



Metathorax with only tw^o short longitudinal black lines, extending 



from base to spines ; body shining, long, slender, subcylin- 



drical 30. intentus. 



Metathorax with dusky, longitudinal, ill-defined marks above ; 

 scutellum black on middle ; abdomen smooth, and highly 



polished 71 . limattis. 



Mesothorax entirely black : 



Posterior femora and tibice black at ti^js 27. Toros. 



Posterior femora black above, their tibife entirely black ; meta- 

 tliorax with three black stripes, connected above spines by a 



black band 35. solitarius. 



Posterior femora black above, their tibiae entirely black, metathorax 

 black at base above, the sides, apex, and an elongate spot on 



basal middle, whitish 28. famelicus. 



Posterior femora above, and more or less of their tibife above, 

 black ; metathorax with two broad black lines extending from 

 base to spines, and a narrow, central, black line at apex. 



29. tenebricus. 

 Posterior femora and tibioe fulvous, the former slightly dusky 

 above ; metathorax with two broad stripes from base to spines, 

 and a bilobed mark at apex ; abdomen short and polished. 



31. gracileutus. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Scutellum conical, apex obtuse : 



Yc'UoAV ; vertex, occiput, three elong:otc marks on mesotliorax, antennne 

 and posterior tibi.T and tarsi black 72. Montezuma. 



Yellow ; base of abdominal segments with a narrow black band ; 

 mcsothorax with three longitudinal black lines ; posterior tarsi 

 black 73. exquisitus. 



Entirely honey-yellow ; anteunte black 74. abactus. 



Scutellum conical, apex aciite : 



Honey-yellow ; head and antenujB black, marked with wliite. 



7o. occiputalis. 

 Black and yellow or white species : 

 31esothorax black, with central yellow spot ; metathorax with two 



central stripes 77. scutellaris. 



Mesothorax entirely black ; metathorax with two black spots at base 

 above, sometimes connected ; posterior legs honey-yellow. 



70. esurialis. 

 Mesothorax entirely dull black, opaque ; metathorax and posterior 



femora black 78. simulans. 



Mesothorax black, with three short whitish lines, the anterior one 

 broad ; metathorax blackish above ; posterior femora j-ellow, 

 their tibiae and tarsi black 79. acclivus. 



Scutellum mucli elevated, ollique, apex with transverse edge : 

 Metathorax with prominent spines : 

 Yellow ; abdominal segments Avith very narrow black band at base ; 

 metathorax entirely yellow ; antennte and posterior tibia^ and 



tarsi black 80. aztecus. 



Black above ; abdomen with broad black bands ; metathorax with 



two sub-basal black spots 82. lenis. 



Metathorax rounded, Avithout spines : 

 Metathorax with two sub-basal black spots, connected to base by 



slender line 81. tragicus. 



Metathorax with arcuate black line above 83. infulatus. 



Scutellum Mspinose 84. abnormis. 



1. Iclmeumon conicus. 



Juppn cohica, BruUe, Ilymeu. iv. 2SG. (?) Cressou, Trans. Am. Ent. 



Soc, ii. 29. 

 ? Ichneumon breviventris, Cresson, Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iv. 12. 



?. Black, opaque ; palpi pale; antcnnai with wliite annnlus; 

 wings h^-aline, nevvures black ; legs yellow, apex of intermediate 

 femora above, and tips of their tarsi, fuscous ; posterior coxaj, 

 apical half of their femora and apex of their tibia-, black ; abdo- 

 men beyond third segment, and venter yellow. Robust, densel}' 

 and coarsely punctured, subpubcscent ; head large, buccate; an- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



tenure involute, rather slender; scntellum flat, with elongate, 

 sparse punctures, sides carinate ; metathorax gradually sloping 

 behind, the posterior middle excavate ; areolet sriiall, 5-angular ; 

 legs subrobust ; abdomen short, ovate, second and third segments 

 longitudinally aciculate and punctured, basal segment rugose, the 

 basal incisures of second and third segments very deep ; first 

 segment broadlj- and suddenly dilated at apex ; gastrocoeli large 

 and deep; apical segments smooth and shining. Length 6-6^ 

 lines. 



% . Antennffi quite slender ; scutellum convex ; apical third of 

 wings more or less tinged with fuscous ; four anterior legs, except 

 ungues, entirely bright yellow ; base of fourth abdominal segment 

 black. Length 6 lines. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Xo. 4.) This seems to difler 

 from the unique specimen of the Cuban Ichneumon hrevivientris^ 

 Cresson, only by the more dense punctation of the mesothorax, 

 by the sparsely punctured scutellum, and by the first abdominal 

 segment being rugose and not aciculate. 



2. Ichaeumon meridionalis. 



Ichneumon meridionalis, Cresson, Proc. Eat. So. Phil., iv. 13. 



S 9. Black; antennae with a white aunulus ; wings fuscous or 

 black, with a brassy gloss ; legs blackish-piceous, the anterior 

 tibia? and tarsi 3'ellowish in front; abdomen rufo-ferruginous, basal 

 segment black. Form elongate, slender, densely punctured ; an- 

 tennae involute in 9 ; mesothorax granulated ; scutellum slightly 

 convex, rugose ; metathorax rugose, shining, elevated lines sub- 

 obsolete ; areolet large, 6-angular or subquadrate, the lower apical 

 side very short, the other sides subequal ; abdomen elongate, sub- 

 cj'lindrical, densely punctured ; basal segment deeply punctured 

 at tip. Length 5 J lines. 



Orizaba ; Mirador. '(Sumichrast, No, 59.) This species occurs 

 also in Cuba. 



3. Ichneumon mexicamis. 



Ichneumon mexicanus. Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 2, 'J, J . 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. (Sumichrast, No. 11.) Common. 



4. Ichneumon totonacus. 



Ichneumon totonacus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 10, %. 

 Orizaba. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. Ichneumon otomitus. 



Hoplismenus otomitus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 21, 9- 



Orizaba. ' 



6. Ichneumon chiapus, n. sp. 



%. Head, antennae, upper part of prothorax, mesothorax, sur- 

 roimdings of scutellnm and posterior tibiae black ; face, orbits 

 iuterrnpted behind summit of eyes, broad aunulus on antennae, 

 anterior margin of prothorax, spot on tip of scutellura, and pos- 

 terior tarsi except extreme base and ungues, white ; remainder, 

 including base of scutellum, fulvo-ferruginous ; wings subhyaline. 

 Form slender ; antennre longer than body, slender ; head narrowed 

 beneath, scutellum abrupt on sides and apex, lateral margin cari- 

 nate ; metathorax rugose, truncate behind, with two short, obtuse, 

 lateral tubercles ; legs long and slender ; abdomen elongate, de- 

 pressed ; first segment rugose ; gastrocoeli deep and rugose. 

 Length 6 lines. 



Cordova. 



7. Ichneumon curiatus, n. sp. 



9. Head black; face, mouth, cheeks, and orbits, white; an- 

 tennse black, with broad annulus, and scape beneath white; pro- 

 thorax black, margined with white; mesothorax black, a reddish 

 spot on anterior margin, and two white spots on posterior margin; 

 scutellum pale lemon-yellow, the surrounding space black ; pleura 

 and metathorax, legs and abdomen fulvous or honey-yellow, the 

 anterior coxre pale; wings In-aline, iridescent. Small, shining; 

 head sub-buccate, face short ; antenna slender, involute ; upper 

 margin of prothorax prominent ; scutellum rather flat ; metathorax 

 truncate behind, with two short acute lateral tubercles ; abdomen 

 short, ovate, depressed, polished, apex slightly yellowish. Length 

 8 lines. 



% . Resembles the 9 , but more slender ; the pleura is 3'ellow, 

 with a douljle black mark beneath wings ; the mctatliorax has two 

 elongate fuscous stains ; the first segment of abdomen has a black 

 spot before apex and the second and third, except apical margin, 

 and basal margin of fourth segment are black. Length 3^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



8. Ichneumon dilucidus, n. sp. 



% 9. Ferruginous, opaque; face of % 3-ellowish ; anteunre 

 black, base ferruginous, middle of flagellum in 9 with white an- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



nulus ; wings hyaline, stained witli yellowish. Form robust ; an- 

 tennre of 9 robust, involute, of % porrect ; body densely punc- 

 tured ; scutellum prominent, flat above, with carinate sides ; 

 abdomen longitudinally aciculate above. Length 6^ lines. 

 Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 120.) 



9. Ichneumon ablutus, n. gp. 



9. Dull honey-yellow; antennfc with broad yellow annulus, 

 apex black, and base yellowish-brown ; wings hyaline, nervures 

 and stigma honey-yellow; head buccate; antennae involute, joints 

 short and robust ; thorax depressed, shagreened ; scutellum flat ; 

 metathorax with well-defined elevated lines, forming a quadrate 

 central area, apex truncate and excavate, with short, prominent, 

 subacute lateral tubercles ; legs robust ; abdomen oblong-ovate, 

 basal segment gradually dilated to apex, with a long, rather 

 slender petiole, the apex above faintly aciculate ; remaining seg- 

 ments smooth, shining, and subpubescent, except base of second, 

 which is faintly transversely aciculate ; gastrocoeli obsolete. 

 Length 4 lines. 



Orizaba. 



10. Ichneumon passivus, n. sp. 



?. Dull honey-3^ellow, opaque; antennre black, with a narrow 

 yellowish annulus, base reddish ; face yellow ; wings 3'ellowish- 

 hyaline, a dark line along basal transverse nervure, and a dark 

 spot covering areolet, the extreme apex faintly clouded ; meso- 

 thorax and base of second abdominal segment tinged with red- 

 dish-brown; base of third segment with a black band. Head flat, 

 not buccate, eyes large and prominent ; antennae slender, not in- 

 volute, joints elongate ; thorax shagreened ; scutellum flat above, 

 abrupt on sides, with carinate edge; metathorax gradually slop- 

 ing behind, with prominent, subacute lateral tubercles, the elevated 

 lines subobsolete ; wings ample, areolet small, triangular; legs 

 long and rather slender ; abdomen elongate, minutely punctured, 

 basal segment smooth and shining, witli long slender petiole, 

 rather suddenly dilated at apex ; gastrocoeli large, deep, and 

 transverse. Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



11. Ichneumon frivolus. 



Ichneumon frivohis, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 11, %. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



12. Ichneumon additus, n. sp. 



%. Lemon-jellow; broad stripe on vertex, covering ocelli and 

 posterior margin of occiput, and the antenna except scape (apical 

 half wanting), black; mcsotliorax black, with two central j-ellow 

 lines, confluent behind ; lateral region of scutellum, spot beneath 

 tegulffi, and extreme base of first abdominal segment, black ; wings 

 hyaline, iridescent ; posterior legs pale fulvous, their tarsi black- 

 ish ; abdomen pale fulvous, with incisures of segments pale. 

 Small, head not buccate; scutellum flat; metathorax rugose, sub- 

 truncate behind, elevated lines well defined ; abdomen elongate, 

 convex, sides subparallel. Length 3i lines. 



Orizaba. 



13. Ichneumon citrinus, n. sp. 



% . Citron or lemon-3'ellow ; spot inclosing ocelli, sometimes 

 two spots on occiput, antenna? except scape, and three short, 

 broad stripes on mesothorax, the middle one sometimes reduced 

 to a spot in front, black; wings smokj'-hyaline, nervures black. 

 Head broad, buccate; scutellum rather flat; metathorax rugose, 

 truncate behind, elevated lines tolerablj^ well defined ; legs robust; 

 abdomen elongate, depressed; gastrocoeli punctiform, not deep. 

 Length 6^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, Xo. 140.) 



14. Ichneumon izucarus, n. sp. 



9. I3rown-ferruginous; antenna? tricolored, ferruginous, j'el- 

 low and black ; Avings yellowish-hyaline, nervures pale fulvous ; 

 posterior tibia? and tarsi black ; abdomen tinged with yellowish 

 on apical half of three basal segments; second and third segments 

 with a broad black band at base. Form robust ; head buccate ; 

 antenna? short, robust, involute, joints short ; scutellum subconvex; 

 metathorax granulated, truncate, and excavate behind, elevated 

 lines well-defined ; abdomen oblong-ovate, densely granulated, 

 gastrocoeli small. Length 5^ lines. 



%. More slender ; face yellow; antenna? bicolored base yel- 

 low, apex black ; thoracic sutures black ; wings stained with fuli- 

 ginous at base and apex ; legs black, anterior pair, except coxae, 

 most of intermediate tibia?, their tarsi and posterior tarsi except 

 base, 3'ellow ; four basal segments of abdomen stained with lemon- 

 3'ellow at tips, the fourth having the basal suture black ; second 

 and third segments as in female. Length G lines. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



15. lohneumon arrogans, n. jp. 



9. Ferruginous, opaque; apex of mandibles black; antennte 

 tricolored red, j^ellow, and black ; thoracic sutures black ; wings 

 blackish, with a broad, median, yellow band, the stigma and ner- 

 vures within the band yellow, the remainder black ; legs black, 

 anterior pair more or less ferruginous; base of first segment of 

 abdomen, and basal sutures of second and third, black, venter 

 yellow. Subrobust, densel}' punctured ; head large, subquadrate, 

 buccate ; antenna? slender, involute, joints short and robust; scu- 

 tellum flat above, sides abrupt; metathorax truncate behind, 

 elevated lines well defined ; abdomen elongate, slightl3' constricted 

 at base, gastrocoeli rather small and deep ; apex of first segment 

 with rather large punctures. Length 5^-6 lines. 



%. More slender; scutellum sometimes tinged with yellowish; 

 legs ferruginous, varied with 3^ello\y, the posterior pair generally 

 black, with apex of tarsi yellow. Length G^ lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 159.) 



16. Iclmeumon cupidus, n. sp. 



9. Brown-ferruginous, opaque; antennas brown-ferruginous 

 at base, yellow iii middle and black at tips ; wings yellow-h3-aline, 

 anterior pair with two broad transverse blackish bands, and apex 

 dusky ; nervures, except where passing through the bands, yel- 

 lowish ; tips of posterior tibia blackish, their tarsi yellowish ; 

 base of third abdominal segment occupied by a rather broad black 

 band, and sometimes a blackish stain at base of second segment. 

 Head flat, not buccate; eyes large; antennre long and slender, 

 not involute, joints elongate ; scutellum flat above, sides abrupt, 

 with carinate edge; metathorax densel}^ sculptured, with a silvery 

 sericeous reflection in certain lights, gradually sloping to apex, 

 with short, subacute, lateral tubercles, elevated lines obsolete ; 

 legs subrobust ; abdomen minutely sculptured ; gastrocoeli trans- 

 verse, rather large and deep. 



% . More slender in form, with the face and anterior legs tinged 

 with vellowish. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 110.) This closely resembles Cryptus 

 cestus, Sa}', in size and ornamentation. 



17. Ichneumon opaculus, n. sp. 



% 9. Opaque black; orbits, interrupted above, two dots be- 

 neath antenna?, two more on upper margin of clypeus, upper mar- 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



gin of prothorax, line on tegulaj, another beneath tegulre, another 

 beneath hind wing, base of scutellum, a line on each side before, 

 postscutelluni, two stripes on metathorax confluent at tip, one 

 or more dots on each side of pleura, most of middle coxre, stripe 

 on posterior pair, stripe on all tlie femora and tibire, and narrow 

 apical margin of first four segments of abdomen, sometimes only 

 of first two, lemon-yellow ; antennae brown-black, fulvous beneath ; 

 wings subhyaline, costa brown. Antennae long and slender in % , 

 shorter and subrobust in 9 ; scutellum subconvex ; abdomen ovate, 

 first segment slender, slightly' enlarged at tip. Length 4^-5^ lines. 

 Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Xo. 107.) 



18. Idmeumon junceus, n. sp. 



% . Black ; sides of face, narrow orbits, scape within, spot on 

 mandibles, palpi, upper margin of prothorax interrupted in mid- 

 dle, tegulae, short line beneath, scutellum, i^ostscutellum, irregular 

 "W-shaped mark on apex of metathorax, tips of four anterior 

 femora, their tibite and tarsi entirely, spot on posterior coxi\i be- 

 hind, their tibife except tips, and apex of first two abdominal seg- 

 ments, 3'ellowish-white ; wnngs subhyaline, dusky at tips ; head, 

 thorax, and legs pubescent. Abdomen long, narrow^, cylindrical. 

 Length G^ lines. 



Cordova. 



19. Ichneumon zapotecus. 



Ichneumon zapotecits. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 3, J. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 21 and 93.) 



20. Ichneumon encaustus. 



Ichneumon encaustus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 4, 'J 9* 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 8.) The % differs from 

 the 9 only in being smaller and much more slender. Length 4^- 

 6 lines. 



21. Ichneumon zacatecus, n. sp. 



9. Differs from encaustus, as follows: the mesothorax has 

 two short yellowish discal lines, confluent behind, and there is no 

 yellowish spot on each side of tegulaj ; the apical half of scutel- 

 lum is yellowish ; all tlie femora are entirelj' black within ; the 

 base of second abdominal segment is eutirel}' black ; and the 

 gastrocoeli shallow. Same size. 



Orizaba. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



22. Ichneumon Parredes. 



Ichneumon Parredes^ Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 4, J. 



Orizaba. 



23. Ichneumon tepanecus. 



Ichneumon tepanecus^ Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 5, 9- 



Orizaba ; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 55.) 



24. Ichneumon subspinosus. 



Ichneumon subspinosus. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 17. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 90.) This may be tiie 

 % oi tepanecus. 



25. Ichneumon actuosus, n. sp. 



S . Closely resembles suhapinosus., but differs, as follows : 

 While the scutellum and postscutellum proper are yellow, as 

 usual, the lateral region is entirelj' black, and not margined pos- 

 teriorly with 3'e.llow ; the metathorax has no lateral black stripe 

 only a central one, the extreme lateral margin is broadly black, 

 and the spines are much shorter ; posterior femora and tibife dark 

 fulvous, the former darker and fuscous above ; their tibiae yellow ; 

 apex of abdomen tinged with fulvous. Length 5 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 89.) 



26. Ichneumon Nestor. 



Ichneumon Nestor, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 13, J. 



Cordova. 



27. Ichneumon Toros. 



Ichneumon Toros, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 14, 9- 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 26.) 



28. Ichneumon famelicus. 



Ichneumon fmnelicus. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 14, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 25.) 



29. Ichneumon tenebricus. 



Ichneumon teneiricus. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 15, % 9- 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. (Sumichrast, Nos. 62, 91, 92.) 

 Varies in length from 4^ to T lines. A common species. 



30. Ichneumon intentus. 



Ichneumon intentus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 15, % J. 

 Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 117.) Varies in length 

 from 4^ to 7^ lines. Also common. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



31. Ichneumon gracilentua. 



Ichneumon gracilentus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 16, % '^ . 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, Xo. 125.) 



32. Ichneumon Ai-ista. 



Ichneumon Arista, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 16, ' 9 . 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Suraiclirast, No. 118.) Varies in length 

 from 6 to 8 lines. 



33. Ichneumon maritus. 



Ichneumon maritus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 16, "J, J. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 9 and GO.) 



34. Ichneumon Tuxtla. 



Ichneumon Tuxtla, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 17, 9. 



Cordova. 



35. Ichneumon solitarius, n. sp. 



% . Black; face, mouth, orbits broad on cheeks, broad annulus 

 on antennae, collar, tegulje, line beneath, scutellum, postscutelluni, 

 metathorax (except three black stripes, connected b}^ a slender 

 black cross-line above spines), sides of pleura and beneath, base 

 of first abdominal segment, lateral and apical margins of remain- 

 ing segments and base of second and third, claj'-white; legs 

 luteous ; spot on four posterior eoxje, all the femora above, four 

 anterior tibiixj exteriorh", posterior pair entirely and base of their 

 tarsi, black; wings hyaline, nervnres black. Head and thorax 

 robust, the former broad and sub-buccate, eyes large and promi- 

 nent; thorax gibbous; scutellum flat; metathoracic sjjines long 

 and acute; legs slender; abdomen long, slender, flat, especially 

 towards apex; gastrocoeli deep. Length 6 lines. 



Orizaba. 



36. Ichneumon prolixus, n. sp. 



%. Headj'ellow; vertex, except orbits, occiput and antenna?, 

 except narrow whitish annulus and scape beneath, black ; thorax 

 yellow ; prothorax, except margins, mcsothorax, except two short 

 discal lines, apex of scutellum, and the surrounding space, double 

 line beneath wings, and three connected si)ots on metathorax 

 above, black ; tegulae yellow ; wings dusky hyaline, nervures black; 

 legs yellow ; apical line on four anterior femora behind, and line 

 on posterior femora above and beneatli confluent at tip within, 

 black ; abdomen black above, yellow beneath ; apex of all the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



segments above broadly 3'ellow, dilated laterally on second and 

 following segments ; gastrocoeli yeliovv. Form elongate ; head 

 and thorax robust ; abdomen depressed ; head buecate ; scutellum 

 flat ; metathorax truncate behind, no lateral tubercles ; abdomen 

 densely and longitudinally^ sculptured; gastrocoeli deep and 

 transverse. Length 8 lines. 

 Cordova. 



37. Ichneumon Cholula. 



Ichneumon Cholula, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 5, 5. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 85.) 



38. Ichneumon zaptlanus, n. sp. 



9 . Head j^ellow, middle of vertex and occiput black ; antennse 

 black, scape beneath and broad aunulus on flagellum, yellowish- 

 white ; prothorax and mesothorax black, margins of formei- and 

 two central longitudinal, entire lines on latter, tegulte, spot on 

 each side behind, apex of scutellum, and postscutellum, yellow ; 

 metathorax 3^ellow^, with a central sub-basal, an apical and two 

 lateral confluent, black spots; pleura 3'ellow, with small black 

 spot beneath wings ; wings fusco-hyaline, nervui'es black ; legs 

 3'ellow ; large spot on posterior coxce above, all the femora above 

 and apex within, and line on all the tibiffi behind, black ; abdomen 

 yellow, with a large, transverse black mark on each dorsal seg- 

 ment, occupying nearly the whole surface. Form robust ; head 

 buecate ; scutellum flat, apex abrupt ; metathorax rugose, without 

 tubercles or spines ; abdomen depressed, surface densely rugose, 

 the segments more or less deeply incised at base ; gastrocoeli deep 

 and transverse. Length 6^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



39. Ichneumon excuratus, n. sp. 



% . Yellow ; vertex and occiput, except orbits, spot on each 

 side of prothorax, mesothorax, except two entire central yellow 

 lines and a short line over tegulaj, scutellar region, two basal and 

 an apical spot on metathorax, sutures of pleura, spot on all the 

 coxa?, a line on all the femora above or within, spot near apex of 

 first abdominal segment and all the remaining segments except 

 broad apical margins, black ; antenna black above, fuscous be- 

 neath, scape beneath and a narrow annulus on flagellum, yellow; 

 wings yellow-h^'aline, dusky at tips, stigma and nervures fulvous; 




120 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



tarsi tinged with fuscous. Elongate ; head buccate ; antennce 

 subserrate ; scutellura subconvex ; metathorax rounded, without 

 tubercles spines ; abdomen subclavate, densel}- sculptured, gastro- 

 coeli deep. Length G^ lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 147.) 



40. Idmeumoii Toluca, 



Ichneumon Toluca, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. G, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 73.) 



41. Ichneumon Chalco. 



Ichneumon Chalco, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p, 7. %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrist, No. 96.) This may be a variety of To- 

 luca. 



42. Ichneumon inoratus, n. sp. 



% Yellow ; middle of vertex and occiput, autennie except scape 



beneath and annulus on flagellum above, two dots on middle of 

 prothorax, mesothorax except two entire discal lines, and another 

 on each side over tegulre, apex of scutellum and lateral region, 

 broad band on base of metathorax above, and a spot on apical 

 middle, spot on pleura beneath wings, and a spot beneath behind 

 each anterior coxa, and abdomen except narrow apical band on 

 each segment, black ; legs yellow, the femora, especially posterior 

 pair, tinged with fulvous ; spot on apex of posterior coxa2, a stripe 

 on all the femora behind, apex of posterior pair and apex of their 

 tibise, black; wings yellowish-hyaline, nervures brown, stigma 

 honey-yellow. Head narrow, not buccate ; antennoe long and 

 slender; scutellum flat; metathorax truncate behind, with the 

 lateral spines short and acute; first and second abdominal seg- 

 ments densely punctured and opaque, remainder smooth and shin- 

 ing ; posterior femora robust. Length G lines. 



Mirador. 



43. Ichneumon mendious, n. sp. 



9. Yellow ; stripe on vertex confluent with large spot on oc- 

 ciput, antenna; except scape beneath and broad annulus on flagel- 

 lum, spot on middle of prothorax, mesothorax except four longi- 

 tudinal stripes, lateral region of scutellum, broad band on base of 

 metathorax and lateral and apical sutures, apex of posterior 

 coxae, and of their tibire and of all the tarsi, and the abdomen 

 except broad apical margins of all the segments, black ; wings 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



hyaline, irklescent ; all the femora fulvo-ferruginous, with tlie 

 apex of posterior pair sometimes black. Small, shaped and sculp- 

 tured like z?7orai!a, except that the head is broader; legs robust. 

 Length 4 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



44. Ichneumon ignarws, n. sp. 



% . Black, opaque ; face below antennae, scape beneath, broad 

 annulus on flagellum above, tegulse, dot before and line beneath, 

 scutellums, large irregular mark on metathorax behind, four an- 

 terior legs, posterior trochanters, extreme base of their femora, 

 their tibite except apex, tlieir tarsi entirely, broad apical bands on 

 four basal segments of abdomen, and narrow one on fifth segment, 

 j^ellow ; antennae beneath and at base above, and four anterior 

 femora behind, fulvous ; wings yellowish-hj^aline, dusky at tips, 

 stigma fulvous. Small and ratlier slender, head not buccate, scu- 

 tellum flat ; metathorax without tubercles or spines ; legs slender. 

 Length 4^ lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 108.) 



45. Iclineumon plaeitus, n. sp. 



9 . Black, opaque ; anterior orbits, dilated on face and extend- 

 ing beneath eyes, clypeus, base of mandibles, and basal half of 

 antenntfi, yellowish-ferruginous ; palpi and middle of antennse 

 yellow ; apical third of antennre black ; line on collar, scutellum, 

 spot on postscutellum, and indistinct spot on each side of meta- 

 thorax posteriorly, yellow ; tegulre pale ferruginous ; wings yel- 

 lowish-hyaline, nervures pale fulvous, stigma yellowish ; legs yel- 

 lowish-ferruginous, coxae, base of trochanters and apical half of 

 posterior femora black ; abdomen yellowish-ferruginous, second 

 segment paler ; first segment, except apex, and broad band at base 

 of third and fourth segments, black ; a sub-basal dusky spot on 

 each side of second segment. Small, robust ; head not buccate ; 

 antennai rather robust, involute, joints short; scutellum subcon- 

 vex, shining, sparsely punctured ; metathorax rugose, with toler- 

 ably well defined elevated lines, apex truncate, with lateral tuber- 

 cles short and obtuse ; legs robust ; abdomen oblong-ovate, de- 

 pressed, very minutely sculptured. Length 4 lines. 



Mirador. 



46. Iclineumon epicus, n. sp. 



% Black ; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, annulus 

 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



on flagellum, margins of prothorax, two entire stripes on raeso- 

 thorax, a line on each side over tegulie, spot ou each side before 

 scutellum, scutellums, pleura except angular mark beneath wings, 

 and spot above each anterior coxa, yellow ; metathorax ^^ellow, with 

 three large black spots above, the apical one largest, and a black 

 stripe dilated above on lateral suture ; teguh>i pale yellow, pupilled 

 with fuscous ; wings dusky hyaline ; legs 3'ellow, stripe on all the 

 femora above, tips of all the tarsi, most of posterior coxse above, 

 and their tibia except extreme base and apex, black; abdomen 

 black above ; apex of all the segments with a yellow band, broad 

 and regular on the first and second, and much narrowed, sometimes 

 suddenl}^ so, on remaining segments ; venter yellow. Form slender, 

 shining ; head sub-buccate ; antennae long and slender ; thorax 

 closely punctured ; scutellum flat ; metathorax truncate behind, 

 with prominent lateral tubercles ; abdomen polished, gastrocoeli 

 small, marked by a 3'ellowish linear mark. Length 4| lines. 

 Mirador. 



47. Ichneumon nigrofemoratus, n. sp. 



% . Yellowish-white ; spot behind antennae, another covering 

 ocelli and connected with a large spot on occiput, antenna? ex- 

 cept scape beneath and broad white annulus beyond middle of 

 flagellum, large triangular mark on each side of prothorax, meso- 

 thorax except two longitudinal lines dilated on disk, lateral 

 region of scutellums, four dots (arranged in a square) on base of 

 metathorax, two or three dots beneath wings, posterior femora 

 entirely, subapical spot on first abdominal segment, large sub- 

 triangular spot on second, and basal half of each remaining seg- 

 ment, black ; wings yellowish-hyaline, stigma luteous ; tips of 

 posterior tibia? faintly fulvous. Form slender ; head sub-buccate ; 

 antenntii as long as body, slender; scutellum flat; metathorax 

 truncate behind, with two short acute spines ; legs slender ; abdo- 

 men flattened. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



48. Ichneumon abjectus, n. sp. 



% Head white, middle of vertex and occiput black; antenna? 



black, with a broad white annulus ; tliorax black, with collar, 

 margins of prothorax, two short discal lines on mesothorax, two 

 spots on posterior margin, tegulix?, scutellums, and most of pleura, 

 white ; metathorax, legs, and abdomen more or less tinged with 



d 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



fulvous, the former \vith two large black spots above in front of 

 spines ; a dot near apex of lirst abdominal segment, an angular 

 line on the second and basal margin of following segments, black ; 

 wings hyaline, iridescent. Small, slender; head broad, buccate ; 

 scutellum flattened ; metathorax with the spines very short and 

 acute ; legs long and slender ; abdomen smooth and polished. 

 Lengtli 3 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 132.) 



49. Ichneumon oephalotes, n. sp. 



9. Head white, vertex and occiput, except orbits, black; an. 

 tennse entirely black, except broad white annulus on middle of 

 flagellum ; thorax white; prothorax except margins, mesothorax 

 except two central abbreviated lines, scutellar regions and two 

 broad stripes on metathorax above, black; legs pale fulvous, 

 coxae white, base of posterior pair and extreme tips of tarsi black ; 

 abdomen black, with petiole and apex of all the segments white ; 

 wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent. Small, slender, smooth and 

 polished ; head very large, subglobose, buccate ; eyes ovate, 

 prominent; antennre long and slender; scutellum subconvex ; 

 metathorax with lateral spines very minute ; legs subrobust. 

 Length 3 lines. 



Mirador. Readily distinguished by the lai'ge subglobose head. 



50. Iclineumon cMcMmecus. 



Ichneumon chicJiimecus, Cress., Traias. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 19, 'J. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 113.) Common. 



61. Iclineumon teres. 



Ichneumon teres. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 18, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 28.) 



62. Ichneumon amecus, n. i^p. 



%. Lemon-yellow, opaque; middle of vertex and occiput, an- 

 tennae except scape beneath, spot on each side of prothorax, meso- 

 thorax except a j^ellow discal spot and a short line over tegulae, 

 space around scutellum, basal suture of metathorax, two spots 

 above connected at base, posterior coxae within, their trochanters 

 apex of femora and tibiae and their tarsi, black ; wings hj'aline 

 faintly yellowish ; femora fulvous, posterior pair except apex 

 rufous ; abdomen tinged with fulvous ; base of all the segments 

 except second, irregularly black. Form elongate, rather slender 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



head sub-buccate ; antennaB long and slender ; scutcllum subcon- 

 vex; metathorax truncate behind, lateral tubercles short, not 

 prominent, elevated lines sharp]}- defined ; legs slender; abdomen 

 narrow, subconvex ; gastrocoeli elongate, shallow. Length G 

 lines. 

 Mirador. 



53. Ichneumon parandus, n. sp. 



%. Head yellow, middle of vertex, and occiput, black; an- 

 tennae black, scape yellow beneath, and flagelhun with a fulvous 

 annulus about the middle; thorax 3'cllow ; middle of prothorax, 

 mesothorax, except two discal lines, generally abbreviated and 

 confluent behind; sutures of scutcllum and of metathorax, some- 

 times a spot on basal middle, spot beueatii posterior wings, and 

 two large spots on pleura beneath, between four anterior coxae, 

 black ; wings yellowish-hyaline, stigma fulvous ; legs yellow, 

 femora more or less fulvous, posterior coxae beneath and within, 

 their femora Avithin and generally irregularly so without, and api- 

 cal half of their til)ia}, black ; abdomen black, with apex of each 

 segment more or less broadly j-ellow ; venter yellow, marked with 

 black. Head sub-buccate ; scutcllum large and convex ; meta- 

 thorax truncate behind, without lateral tubercles ; abdomen ob- 

 long-ovate, densel}^ sculjotured; gastrocoeli obsolete. Length 6^ 

 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. 



54. Ichneumon ahaculus, n. sp. 



%. Head and tliorax 3'ellow ; middle of vertex, occiput, an- 

 tenna? except scape beneatli, mesothorax except tAvo entire central 

 lines and a spot on each side over teguhv, lateral region of scu- 

 telhun, 1)asal and apical sutures of metathorax and a stripe down 

 the middle, a stain bcncatli wings and the pleura beneath and be- 

 tween the four anterior cox{\?, black ; wings 3-cllowish-hyaline, 

 ncrvures and stigma honej^-yellow ; legs yellow, four anterior 

 femora behind and jiosterior coxai beneath, fuscous; posterior 

 femora and apex of their tibia? black; abdomen above black, with 

 apex of all the segments yellow, the bands becoming gradually 

 narrower towards apex of abdomen. Form elongate, subrobust ; 

 head sul)-buccat(; ; scutcllum subconvex; metathorax rounded, 

 Mith sharply defined elevated lines and no lateral tubercles or 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



spines ; abdomen elongate, slender at base, gastrocoeli moderate, 

 genital organs largely developed. Length 6^-*7 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



55. Ichneumon abitus, n. sp. 



% . Yellow ; a spot on vertex connected with a line extending 

 from eye to eye, and also to posterior margin of occiput, antennae 

 except scape beneath, spot on middle of prothorax, three longi- 

 tudinal lines on mesothorax, basal suture of metatliorax, an in- 

 terrupted line down the middle, tips of posterior tibiae, their tarsi 

 except base, spot on middle of first abdominal segment, basal 

 half of the second, third, and fourth, and base of remaining seg- 

 ments narrowly, black ; wings hj^aline, tinged with yellowish, 

 stigma pale honey-yellow ; kgs faintly tinged with fulvous. Form 

 rather slender ; head not buccate ; scutellum subconvex ; meta- 

 thorax rounded, without lateral tubercles or spines. Length 5 

 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 106.) 



56. IchneumoTi durus, a. sp. 



Z. Yellow; spot on vertex, transverse line on occiput, an- 

 tennre except scape, three broad lines on mesothorax, basal suture 

 of metathorax and spot on basal middle, spot beneath tegulae, 

 extreme tips of posterior tibias and sometimes of femora, their 

 tarsi except base, a narrow irregular band on base of second ab- 

 dominal segment, broader ones dilated on middle posteriorly on 

 third and fourth segments, and narrow one on the fifth, all black; 

 wings 3'ellow-h3'aline, nervures and stigma honey-yellow. Form 

 rather slender ; head not buccate ; scutellum subconvex ; meta- 

 thorax rounded, without tubercles or spines. Length Gi lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 15G.) 



57. Iclineunion Alvarado. 



Ichneumon Aloarado, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 7. '^ . 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 112.) Common. The 

 antennae of 9 are Ijlack above with a whitish annulus, fulvous be- 

 neath, with black tips, robust, and involute. This species varies 

 in length from 6 to T^ lines. 



58. Ickneumon decorosus. 



Ichneumon decorosus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 8, %. 

 Cordova. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



59. Ichneumon centrosus. 

 Ichneumon centrosus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 8, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 71.) 



CO. Ichneumon jugiosus. 

 Ichneumon juf/iosus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 9, 'J, 9- 



Orizaba ; Cordova. The autennaj of % are entirelj' black, ex- 

 cept the scape beneath which is yellow. 



61. Ichneumon limitaris. 



Ichneumon limitaris, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 9, %. 



Cordova. 



62. Ichneumon tenuicornis. 



Ichneumon tenuicornis. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 9, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, Xos. 72 and 98.) 



G3 Ichneumon monitus. 

 Ichneumon monitus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 10, J. 



Cordova. 

 64. Ichneumon virescens, n. sp. 



9. Head and thorax dark metallic green ; face, orbits, margins 

 of prothorax, tegulse, transverse line beneath, curved line behind 

 anterior coxjb, and spot on apex of scutellum, luteous ; antennce 

 black, with broad white annulus, scape luteous beneath ; wings 

 yellowish-hyaline, nervures brown ; legs rufous, four anterior 

 coxte and trochanters beneath, luteous; posterior legs with a 

 violet reflection, tips of their femora and tibia? blue-black ; abdo. 

 men steel-blue, chanoinjr to creen in certain liofhts : basal seijment 

 green. Form elongate, slender ; head flat, triangular, eyes pro- 

 minent; antennae as long as bod}-, slender, not involute; thorax 

 verj^ densely and rather coarsely punctured ; scutellum flat above, 

 abrupt on sides and apex, lateral edge carinate ; metathorax trun- 

 cate and excavate behind, lateral tubercles short and obtuse; 

 wings long, narrow, areolet triangular; legs slender; abdomen 

 elongate, depressed, shining toward apex ; first segment rugose 

 and bicarinate, the second and third segments, except apical 

 margins, densely sculptured; gastrocoeli large, deep, and oblique. 

 Length 7 lines. 



Mirador. 



C3. Ichneumon rixosus. 

 Jloplismenus rixosus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 20, J. 

 Cordova. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ] 2Y 



66. Ichneumon munitus. 



Uo'pUsmenus munitus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 21, 'J, 9- 



Orizaba ; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 2.) Common. 



67. Ichneumon propinquus. 



Hoplistiicims ixroinnquus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, \\.*^.22, J. 



Cordova. 



68. Ichneumon picturatus. 



Ichneumon j^icturatus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 32, 9- 



Cordova. 



69. Ichneumon dissonus. 



HopUsmenus dissonus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut, Soc, ii. p. 23. 9. 



Cordova. 



70. Ichneumon minax. 



HopUsmenus minax, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 23, % 9- 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 48 and 98.) Common. 



71. Ichneumon limatus. 



HopUsmenus limatus, Cress., Traus. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 24, '^ 9- 



Cordova. 



72. Ichneumon Montezuma. 



Ichneumon Montezuma, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 13, % . 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 57.) 



73. Ichneumon exquisitus. 



Ichneumon exquisitus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 12, '^ 9. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 36, 37, 56.) Common. 



74. Ichneumon abactus, n. sp. 



% . Fulvo-ferruginous, opaque ; face yellow ; antennae, except 

 scape which is reddish, black ; wings yellowish-hyaline, with a 

 brilliant golden gloss, nervures and stigma black. Form slender, 

 especially of abdomen ; head not buccate ; scutellum obtusely 

 conical ; metathorax Avith sharply defined elevated lines and with 

 the lateral spines acute and prominent ; abdomen narrow, very 

 slender at base. Length 4^ lines. 



Mirador. 



75. Ichneumon occiputalis. 



HopUsmenus oeciputaUs, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 24, -^ 9 . 

 Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 51.) A common species. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



76. Ichneumon eaurialis. 



Hoplismenus esurialis, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 25, ' J. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumiclirast, No. 12.) Common. 



77. Ichneumon scutellaris. 



Hoplismenus scutellaris. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc., ii. p. 26, '^ 9. 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador, (Sumicbrast, Xos. 99, 122, 131.) 

 Common. Yaries in length from 4 to 5^ lines. 



78. Ichneumon similans, n. sp. 



%. Black, opaque ; face, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, narrow 

 annulus bej'ond middle of flagellum, collar, upper and lower mar- 

 gins of prothorax, tegula?, line beneath, most of scutellums, apex 

 of metathoracic spines, pleura beneath, and narrow posterior 

 margin beneath posterior wings, and first abdominal segment ex- 

 cept subapical black spot, pale Inteous; wings subhj-aline, nervures 

 and stigma black; legs luteous, posterior coxse above, their femora 

 entirel)', apex of their tibise and basal joint of their tarsi, black ; 

 four anterior femora and tibia? somewhat fulvous behind. Form 

 same as that of acclivus, with the scutellum less acute. Length 

 1j lines. 



Mirador. 



79. Ichneumon acclivus. 



Hoplismenus acclivus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 25, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 95.) 



80. Ichneumon aztecus. 



Ichneumon aztectis, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 20, % 



Orizaba; Isthmus of Tehauntepec. (Sumichrast, No. 60.) 



81. Ichneumon tragicus. 



Ichneumon tragicus, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 11, %. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 30.) 



82. Ichneumon lenis. 



Ichneumon lenis. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 10, J. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 21.) 



83. Ichneumon infulatus. 



Jchneumon infulatus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 12, 9. 



Cordova. 



84. Ichneumon ahnormis. 



Hoplismenus abnormis. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 2G, 9- 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 23.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 129 



Subo-enus (Edicephalus. 



111 tilis subgenus the hetid is unusually large and swollen, very 

 broad behind the eyes, the occiput deeply emarginate, the man- 

 dibles very broad ; antennae generally longer than the body ; 

 thorax robust ; scutellum very broad, subquadrate, unituberculate, 

 more or less prominent ; metathorax short and broad, rather sud- 

 denly truncated behind, lateral tubercles very small or altogether 

 wanting; wings long, arcolet 5-angular ; legs long, more robust 

 than usual, posterior tibiai incrassate toward the tips, the inner 

 spur longer than usual ; abdomen short, ovate in 9 , subdeprcsscd, 

 petiole slender, apex of first segment very broadly dilated, gastro- 

 coeli broad, transverse and very deep, the second segment gene- 

 rally longitudinally aciculated. 



1. (Edicephalus longicornis. 



(Edicephalus longicornis, Cress., Trans. Am. Eut. Soc, ii. p. 27, 9- 



Cordova. 



2. (Edicephalus sororius. 



(Edicephalus sororius, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 28. 



9. Black, face, orbits interrupted a little below summit of 

 eyes; cheeks, clypeus, mandibles except tips, palpi, annulus on 

 antennte, collar, teguloe, a line before wings, two abbreviated lines 

 on disk of mesothorax, two spots behind on each side of base of 

 scutellum, whole of pectus, scutellum except a central black line, 

 and a transverse line on postscutellum, white ; metathorax white, 

 with a black band near base, from which proceeds on each side a 

 longitudinal black stripe ; wings h^'aline, nervures and stigma 

 black; legs pale lemon-yellow, tips of posterior tarsi white, spot 

 at tips of posterior coxce, line on all the femora above, line on the 

 four anterior tibiae, most of their tarsi and bases of posterior tibiae, 

 black ; first abdominal segment white, with a broad black band 

 near the tip ; second segment black, with a broad white apical 

 margin and a white line on each side in front of gastrocoeli ; re- 

 maining segments white, more or less black at the base. Polished ; 

 scutellum elevated into an obtuse tubercle ; abdomen as in longi- 

 cornis. Length 4^ lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 84.) This may prove to be a variety 

 of longicornis^ although the antennae are shorter and more robust. 

 It is closely allied to (E. albovarixis^ from Cuba, 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



3. (EdicephaluB gracilicornis. 



(Edicephalus gracilicornis, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 28, '^ 9 . 



Cordova. 



4. (Edicephalus vicinus, n. sp. 



9. Size and shape of gy^acilicornis, with similar black mark- 

 ings, the pale color being lemon-yellow instead of white ; the ver- 

 tex and occiput, except orbits, which are not interrupted as in 

 gracilicornis, are black ; the discal lines of mesothorax are broader 

 and abbreviated ; the scutellum more acute ; the raetathorax has 

 an irregular transverse black band before the truncation, which is 

 continued posteriori}' on each side in a narrow line, middle of 

 truncation with a short black stripe ; all the femora have a black 

 stripe above, that on the posterior pair dilated within near apex ; 

 posterior coxse black at base, with a subapical black spot, extreme 

 base of their tibice black ; second segment of abdomen strongly 

 longitudinally aciculate and transversely sulcate ; antennas more 

 robust ; otherwise as in gracilicornis. Length 3^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



Subgenus Ortezia. 



In this subgenus the form is broad, depressed and robust ; the 

 head small, narrowed beneath ; scutellum broadly quadrate, shield- 

 line, perfectly flat ; metathorax broad and declivous, without 

 tubercles or spines; legs short and robust; abdomen short, broad, 

 ovate, depressed, longitudinally rugose or aciculated, icith (he seg- 

 ments more or less constricted at base. 



1. Ortezia egregia. 



Joppa? egregia^ Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 30, 9- 



Orizaba. The abdomen is longitudinally rugose. 



2. Ortezia aciculata. 



Joppal (iciculata, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 30, 'J, J . 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 83.) The abdomen is longitudi- 

 nally aciculated. 



Genus JOPPA, Fabr. 



The species of tliis genus, so fiir as known from i\[cxico, are 

 remarkably similar in style of color and ornamentation, all being 

 bright lemon-yellow varied with black, having the wings yellow 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



banded with black, and in one specimen entirely fuliginous. All 

 have the head broad, with swollen cheeks ; the antennte rather 

 short, slender, that of the male more or less dilated near apex. 

 The following table will aid in distinguishing the species : 



Mesotliorax vittate with black ; wings with apex and submcdian spot l)lack. 



1. Sumichrastii. 

 Mesotliorax, scutellnm, base of metathorax above and tip of abdomen, 



black ; base and apex of wings black 2. decorata. 



Mesotliorax above, aud tip of abdomen blark ; base and apex of Avings black. 



3. incerta. 

 Mesotliorax fulvous ; tip of abdomen and apex of wings black. 



4. elegantula. 

 Mesotliorax fulvous ; head aud tip of abdomen black ; wings fuliginous. 



5. fumipennis. 



1. Joppa Sumichrastii. 



Joppa Sumichrastii, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Sec, ii. p. 31, %^ . 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 14 and 20.) Common. 



2. Joppa decorata. 



Joppa decorata. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 32, %. 



Orizaba. 



3. Joppa incerta, n. sp. 



9 Differs from (Zflcora/a % by the scutellnm and metathorax 

 being entirely yellow ; the posterior tibias are broadly black atf 

 apex, and most of the basal joint of their tarsi yellow. Length 5 

 lines. 



Orizaba. Tliis may be the 9 of decorata. 



4. Joppa elegantula. 



Joppa elegantula. Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 82, %^ . 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 15.) In color and mark- 

 ings the 9 resembles the % . 



5. Joppa fumipennis. 



Joppa fumipennis, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 32, ^ J. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 13.) 



Genus TROGUS, Grav. 



Wings violaceous-black, very broad ; body steel blue ; head, anterior half 

 of thorax, and anterior legs, yellowish-red 1. latipennis. 



Wings hyaline, with two violaceous-black bands ; body and legs black ; 

 posterior tarsi white 2. blandita. 



Wings hyaline, apex only violaceous-black ; body black, marked with yel- 

 lowish-white 3. inclyta. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



1. Trogus latipennis, n. sp. 



5. Blue-black, with a steel-blue reflection; head, pro- and 

 mesothorax, pleura, and anterior legs, 3'ellowish-red ; vertex, an- 

 tenna? and broad stripe over teguhv, black; Avings violaceous- 

 black. Densely punctured, subpubescent; antennte rather short, 

 slender; scutellum convex; Avings very broad, ample, areolet 

 large, triangular ; abdomen long, segments constricted at base, 

 with a short basal longitudinal impressed line on each side, and 

 an obtuse longitudinal ridge on disk of second and followino- seg- 

 ments. Length 9|- lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 62.) A beautiful species. 



2. Trogus blandita, n. sp. 



Z . Deep black, opaque, sides of thorax, scutellum, legs, and 

 basal and apical segments of abdomen polished ; anterior orbits, 

 slightly dilated on the face and interrupted opposite insertion of 

 antennre, a narrow line on posterior orbits, a spot on middle of 

 face indented above, transverse line on cl3qDeus and spot on mandi- 

 bles, 3'ellowish-white ; antenna? long, slender, serrate, graduall}^ 

 attenuated to apex which is ver}^ slender, brown-black, scape 

 polished, black; thorax immaculate, closely punctured, scutellum 

 obtusely conical, Avith scattered punctures; metathorax shaped 

 much as in inchjta, with the elevated lines more sharply defined, 

 and the surface more deeply punctured, the pleura has a slight 

 opaline reflection ; wings dusky h3'aline, the anterior pair with 

 two fuliginous, brilliant violet bands, one occupjang the entire 

 apical third and the other about half the breadth of the first, 

 placed across the middle, apical margin brassy, middle of stigma 

 sub-h3'aiine, areolet small, sub-triangular, petiolatcd, posterior 

 wings dusk3' at apex ; legs shining black, anterior cox.o? in front, 

 their femora and tibioe in front, and the intermediate tibiae before, 

 soiled white ; posterior tarsi longer than tibia% white; apical joint 

 and claws black ; posterior coxfe dilated above into an obtuse 

 tubercle, their basal trochanters flat and dilated, as in inchjta ; 

 abdomen flattened, first segment shining, grooved medialh', and 

 with large scattered punctures, the four following segments opaque, 

 longitudinall3' aciculatcd dorsall3', den.sel3' and deepl3' punctured 

 laterall3', the incisures deep, the second segment above with a 

 small lateral sub-apical lunate white mark ; two apical segments 

 smooth and shining, with a fiiint opaline iridescence. Length t 

 lines. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



9 . Larger and more robust ; antennoe not serrate, slightly 

 thickened toward apex ; face black, with a short white line on 

 each side ; otherwise like the % . 



Orizaba. Resembles inclyta in form and sculpture, but very 

 ditferent in ornamentation. The anterior win^s have a broad 

 blackish medial band, and the apex is broadly blackish, while in- 

 clyta lias only the apex blackish. 



3. Trogus inclyta. 



Joppa iiidi/tu, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 29, J. 



Cordova. 



Genus CRYPTUS, Fabr. 



Wings hyaline. 

 Body black and -^viiite. 

 Mcsothorax with two short -white discal hues. 



Large, robust ; length 7 lines, 9 1. aztecus. 



Small, slender ; length 3 lines, % 2. tantilliis. 



Mesotliorax with central white spot. 



3Ietatliorax black above, inclosing four white spots ; base of second 



abdominal segment black 3. tenuiventris. 



Metathorax black at base, with a central black stripe ; base of second 



abdominal segment white 4. Celaya. 



Metathorax with an arcuate black band and a black spot at tip. 



5. arcuatus. 

 Metathorax with only a narrow, median, black band. 



G. transversus. 

 Mesotliorax with a central white stripe ; metathorax witli a transverse 



angular black mark near base 7. angulatus. 



Body pale ferruginous ; head, antennae, and mesotliorax black and 



Avhitc ; mesotliorax with a central white dot 8. citus. 



Wings ftisciate with dusky ; body pale honey -yellow. . . 9. pulchripennis. 

 Wings fuscous, subfasciate with yellowish ; body ferruginous. 



10. xanthostigma. 



1. Cryptus aztecus, n. sp. 



9 . Black ; face, orbits broad on the cheeks, palpi, broad com- 

 plete annulus on antenna? above middle, anterior margin of pro- 

 thorax, a triangular spot on each side posteriorly before the 

 tegulix?, two abbreviated lines on disk of mcsothorax, teguloe, a 

 short line beneath, a large elongate oblique mark on each side of 

 pleura, with a small spot above it and with its lower })osterior 

 end indented with black, the scutellura and post-scutcllum, a 

 transverse spot behind posterior wing, four large spots on meta- 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



thorax posteriorly, four anterior coxre and troclianters, posterior 

 coxaj above and beneath, apical margins of all the abdominal 

 segments, a band on first segment near base above, also its sides, 

 and most of venter, all white; apical half of posterior trochanters, 

 base of their tibijE and tips of all the tarsi, dusky, posterior tarsi 

 pale yellow, sides and extreme tips of posterior coxre black ; re- 

 mainder of legs luteous; wings hyaline, slightl3' dusky at extreme 

 tips, stigma with a pale spot at base. Antennai more than half 

 the length of body, third, fourth, and fifth joints long and sub- 

 equal, the joints beyond the annulus slightly thickened ; meso- 

 thorax without distinct dorsal impressed lines, very finely and 

 closely punctured and interspersed with large scattering punc- 

 tures ; scutellura subconvex, the lateral regions crenulated ; 

 metathorax thinly clothed with white pubescence, obliquely trun- 

 cate behind, rugose, the basal third smoother, bounded behind by 

 a sharp transverse carina bent inwardly on the disk, also an ob- 

 lique sharply defined carina on each side on the verge of the 

 truncation, stigmata large, linear ; areolet of anterior wing quad- 

 rate, smaller than usual ; abdomen shining, fusiform, broad and 

 rol)ust beyond first segment, which is but slightly dilated at tip, 

 with a longitudinal medial groove above and a depression on each 

 side ; ovipositor more than half the length of the bod}-, black. 

 Length G-7j lines. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Xo. 29.) 



2. Cryptus tantillus, n. sp. 



% l>lack ; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, collar, 



tegula', line before, spot beneath, two discal spots on mesothorax, 

 scutelluras, space behind base of wings, pleura beneath and 

 laterally except anterior and posterior margins, flanks of meta- 

 thorax, two elongate marks on posterior face, four anterior coxa^ 

 and trochanters, posterior coxse except black line above, most of 

 posterior tarsi, and rather broad apical margins of abdominal 

 segments, white; wings hyaline, beautifully iridescent; posterior 

 trochanters above, apex of their tibitv and base and apex of their 

 tarsi, black. Form similar to that of lenuiventris. Length 3 

 lines. 



Cordova. A small, very slender species. 



3. Cryptus tenuiventris, n, sp. 



%. Black; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, broad 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



aiinulus on flagellnm, collar, teguloe, liue before, dot beneath, 

 elongate spot on disk of mesothorax, scutelhim, space behind base 

 of wings, flanks of metathorax, two spots at base and two at 

 apex, pleura, base of four anterior legs, base of first abdominal 

 segment, and broad apical margins of all the segments, white ; 

 wings hyaline, iridescent ; legs, especially posterior pair, more or 

 less 3'ellow, posterior tarsi whitish, two stripes on posterior coxte 

 and all the femora aboA^e fuscous. Yery slender, head broader 

 than usual; metathorax rounded, with two transverse subarcuate 

 carinse and no tubercles or spines ; areolet 5-angular ; abdomen 

 slender, gradually' dilated at apex. Length 4j lines. 

 Orizaba. Also a very slender species. 



4. Cryptus Celaya, n. sp. 



9 . Head black ; face, mouth, cheeks and orbits white ; antennte 

 black, with scape beneath and broad annulus on flagellum white ; 

 thorax white, tinged with yellowish : band on prothorax, meso- 

 thorax except central elongate spot, space around scutellums, base 

 of metathorax, a broad central stripe and a slender one down 

 each side, black; wings h3'aline, nervures pale; legs dull luteous, 

 pale at base, dot on intermediate coxre and stripe on posterior 

 pair black, four anterior tarsi dusky, posterior pair white, black 

 at extreme tips ; abdomen black with a broad white band on 

 second and following segments above, base of second segment 

 white, first segment white with a black spot before apex. Form 

 rather small, slender ; head not buccate, eyes large and prominent ; 

 antemiffi long, slender, porrect ; scutellum subconvex, metathorax 

 sloping behind, the lateral tubercles small and obtuse ; areolet 

 subtriangular, small ; legs slender ; abdomen shining, first seg- 

 ment polished, apex subquadrate, slightly dilated ; ovipositor half 

 the length of abdomen. Length 4^ lines. 



Mirador. The metathorax has a broad black band at base, an- 

 other down the middle and a slender one on each side. 



5. Cryptus arcuatus, n. sp. 



9 . White ; space beneath e^'es, base and tips of mandibles, 

 middle of vertex covering ocelli and extending to occiput, disk 

 and lateral margins of prothorax, mesothorax except round discal 

 spot, scutellar region, arcuate band on metathorax broad on disk, 

 spot at apex, a slender oblique line beneath posterior wing, and a 

 spot on outside of all the coxa?, larger and cuneiform ou posterior 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



pair, beneath "vvhicb at base are two elongate spots, black; antennae 

 long, slender, black, with a broad white annulus near apex, scape 

 white beneath ; wings hyaline, iridescent, nervures black; areolet 

 rather small, 5-angular; legs hone3'-3'ellow, coxa^ white, tips of 

 four anterior tarsi blackish, posterior pair white, honey -yellow at 

 extreme base and black at apex; abdomen black shining, base 

 rather strongly arcuate, first segment white with a broad median 

 black band, apical margins of remaining segments rather broadly 

 white. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. Basil}' recognized by the cousiiicuous strongly arcu- 

 ated black baud on metathorax. 



6. Cryptus transversus, n. sp. 



9. White; spot on vertex covering ocelli, most of occiput, 

 apex of mandibles, antenna? except scape beneath and broad an- 

 nulus on flagellurn, posterior margin of prothorax, central spot 

 above, mesothorax except central spot, lateral region of scutellum, 

 narrow transverse band on middle of metathorax directed ob- 

 liquely backward on the flanks, slender line on posterior coxns 

 furcate at tip, apex of tarsi, spot on middle of first abdominal 

 segment, remaining segments except broad apical margins, and 

 dot on each basal corner of second segment, black ; wings hyaline, 

 extreme apical margin dusk}' ; legs except coxfe bright yellow, 

 posterior tarsi except tips white. Robust, opaque ; metathorax 

 smooth, rounded, with a single transverse carina bordering the 

 posterior black band; areolet small, 5-angular; abdomen broad, 

 depressed ; legs subrobust. Length 5 lines. 



Mirador. This is closely allied to arcuatus, but distinguished 

 at once by the band on metathorax being transverse. 



7. Cryptus angulatus, n. sp. 



9. Yellowish-white; tips of mandibles, spot on middle of ver- 

 tex covering ocelli and connected with two oblique lines on occiput, 

 disk of prothorax, sutures of mesothorax, scutellar region, trans- 

 verse sutural line immediately beneath wings, sutural line at base 

 of metathorax, a slender oblique one on each side near tubercles, 

 and a short angular mark on disk connected medially with base, 

 black; antenn.'e black, with a rather broad white annulus beyond 

 middle, scape white beneath ; mesotliorax ferruginous or brown, 

 wiLli a stripe on middle division and line over teguhu, yellowish; 

 metatliorax with a short transverse cariniform tubercle on each side 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13t 



above ; wings hyaline, iridescent, nervnres brown, areolet 5-angu- 

 lar, rather small; legs honey-yellow, coxte j^ellowish-white more 

 or less tinged with honej'-yellow, posterior pair with dnsky spot on 

 outer side, tips of posterior tibiae and of all the tarsi black, pos- 

 terior tarsi white, base and apex black ; abdomen slender at base, 

 shining black, apical margins of all the segments broadl}' white, 

 lateral margins narrowly so, basal half of first segment honey- 

 yellow. Length 4^ lines. 



Cordova. This pretty species is easily recognized by the angu- 

 lar black mark on disk of metathorax. 



8. Cryptus citus, n. sp. 



9 . Head white, vertex and occiput except orbits, black ; an- 

 tennre black, scape beneath and broad annulns on flagellum, white; 

 collar and prothorax white, the latter with a central black stripe ; 

 mesothorax black, with a central white spot ; scutellum white, the 

 lateral region black ; tegulre and short line beneath white ; meta- 

 thorax honey-yellow, basal suture and median triangular stain, 

 black; flanks of metathorax, and pleura whitish ; wings hj'aline, 

 nervures and stigma blackish ; legs honej'-yellow, tips of all the 

 tarsi, tips of posterior tibial and extreme base of their tarsi, black- 

 ish ; remainder of posterior tarsi white ; abdomen entirely honey- 

 yellow ; ovipositor black. Form slender ; antennse rather longer 

 than body, filiform ; metathorax rugulose, obliquely truncate be- 

 hind, with a shoi't, transverse, sharply defined carina on each side 

 and a subarcuate indistinct carina between middle and base ; areo- 

 let 5-angular, not large ; legs slender ; abdomen slender, smooth, 

 somewhat shining; ovipositor longer than first abdominal seg- 

 ment. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. Allied to atricollaris, Walsh. 



9. Cryptus pulchripennis, n. sp. 



9. Uniformly ferruginous, slender; narrow anterior and pos- 

 terior orbits yellowish-white; antennae long, slender, black, with 

 a broad pale j'Cllowish annulus about the middle, base ferrugin- 

 ous ; disk of prothorax yellowish-white ; anterior and posterior 

 suture of pleura, space around scutellum, and spot on each side 

 of metathorax at extreme tip, l)lack ; metathorax rounded, with 

 two fine transverse subarcuate cariufe, between which the space 

 is obliquel}- finely aciculate, apex longitudinally striated ; wings 

 pale yellowish-hyaline, beautifully iridescent, a band beneath base 

 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



of stigma, another beneath apex, and the apical margin dusky, 

 apical margin of posterior pair dusk^', stigma pale yellowish, 

 blackish at tip ; legs slender, uniformally ferruginous, posterior 

 tarsi yellowish, dusky at tips ; abdomen more or less tinged with 

 fuscous. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. Closely allied to ce-stus, Sa}-, but quite distinct. 



10. Cryptus xanthostigma. 



Cri/ptus xaathostigma, Brulle, Ilym. p. 190. 



Mirador. One % specimen. 



Genus JOPPIDIUM, Walsh. 



The species of this genus are slender in form, especially that 

 of the % . the legs slender, the posterior pair unusually long ; the 

 antennae of 9 often thickened before the apex, somewhat as in 

 Jop2')a ; tlie Avings ample and in the Mexican species, so far as 

 known, entirely blackish; the abdomen more slender than in 

 Cryptus, the first segment being long and linear. 



The three Mexican species are closely allied and may be sepa- 

 rated by the characters given in the following table : 



Body black ; all the tibia; and tarsi yellow 1. dubiosum. 



Body ferrngiuous ; metatliorax, hind coxpe, first abdominal segment 9 1 



and whole of abdomen % , black 2. ardens. 



Body entirely ferruginous o. donabilis. 



1. Joppidium dubiosum, n. sp. 



9. Shining-black; head entirelj^ ferruginous, as well as base 

 of antennte, the middle of which is orangc-^-ellow, and tlie apical 

 third black; anterior legs entircl}', most of intermediate femora, 

 four posterior tibi;c and tarsi, bright yellow; wings black, with a 

 strong purple reilection. Form slender ; antenuiu longer than 

 bead and thorax, slightly thickened before apex, the third, fourth, 

 and fifth joints long and subequal ; raesothorax with the dorsal 

 lines well impressed, with a shallow longitudinal impression down 

 the middle and also on each side over tegula?; scutellum triangu- 

 lar, convex at tip and deeply excavated at base ; metathorax 

 transversely striated except at base which is smooth, and the 

 sides which are punctured ; wings ample, areolet rather large, 

 5-angular; legs long and slender, especially posterior pair; abdo- 

 men slender, fusiform beyond first segment, which is long and 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



linear, being very sliglitl}' broader at tip, stigmatic tubercles 

 proniinont and placed a little behind the middle; ovipositor more 

 than half the length of abdomen. Length G^ lines. 



%. Antennae long, filiform, attenuated to tips, black, with a 

 yellowish annulus beyond middle, scape dull iioney -yellow ; ver- 

 tex and occiput black; abdomen very slender, subcompressed 

 towards apex ; otlierwise as in 9 , Length 6^ lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 58.) The 9 is closel}^ allied to that 

 of rubi-iceps, Walsh, but distinct by the very different sculpture 

 of the metathorax. The males of the two species are very dis- 

 tinct. 



2." Joppidium ardens, n. sp. 



9. Ferruginous; metathorax, four posterior coxte, posterior 

 trochanters, base of tlieir femora, basal segment of abdomen, base 

 of second segment, and sheaths of ovipositor, black ; sometimes 

 the metathorax is varied with ferruginous; antennas colored as in 

 dubiosum except that the 3'ellow is confined to an annulus about 

 the middle ; intermediate tibioe, and posterior tarsi except tips, 

 yellow ; tips of all the tarsi dusky. Same form as dubiosum, com- 

 pared with which the mesothorax has the dorsal lines more deeply 

 impressed, and the intervening shallow depressions are wanting, 

 while the transverse stria? on metatliorax ai'e confused on the disk 

 and the sides are finely striated, areolet of anterior wing larger, 

 the abdomen rather more slender, the first segment with a shallow 

 depression above between stigmatic tubercles ; ovipositor longer. 

 Length 6|^-7 lines. 



Z. Antennoe black, with a narrow yellowish annulus bej-ond 

 middle, scape ferruginous ; metathorax smooth and shining, the 

 apex above having a few irregular transverse stria? ; posterior 

 legs black, basal joint of their tarsi white, apex fuscous or black; 

 abdomen sometimes entirely black, generally the second and fol- 

 lowing segments have a dull ferruginous median or basal band. 

 Length G^-7 lines. 



Cordova; Isthmus of Tehauntepec. (Sumichrast, No. 34 9, 

 56 %.) 



3. Joppidium donabilis, n. sp. 



% 9 . Uniformly ferruginous ; face of % pale ; antennoe black, 

 with a broad, very distinct white annulus ; metathorax trans- 

 versely striated, with two transverse arcuate carina?, flanks of % 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



smooth ; wings colored as is preceding species ; basal joint of 

 posterior tarsi pale j-ellowisli ; abdominal segments slightly varied 

 with dusky, sometimes the second and third segments are dis- 

 tinctly marked at base with black. Length 6^-7 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 53.) Distinguished from the two 

 preceding species by the uniform ferruginous color, and by the 

 black antenna having a distinct broad white anuulus. 



Genus PHYGADEUON, Grav. 



1. Phygadeuon satageus, n. sp. 



9. Clothed with short pale pubescence; head black, mouth 

 piceous, palpi white; antennaj black, a broad complete annnlus 

 about the middle, and the two basal joints white ; i)rothorax, 

 mesothorax, scutellar region, and anterior margin of pleura, black ; 

 anterior and posterior margin of prothorax, tegulre, a line beneath, 

 most of the pleura laterall}', an oblique line on each side before 

 the scutellum, and the scutellum, white ; metathorax, and the 

 coxoe and trochanters, pale-testaceous, wings h^-aline, nervures ; 

 and stigma pale testaceous ; legs and abdomen pale honey-yellow, 

 dilated portion of abdomen darker ; tips of tarsi dusk}'. Antennre 

 and legs rather rol)ust ; head transversely quadrate ; metathorax 

 with sharply defined elevated lines forming on the dorsal surface 

 an elongate central area, and two subquadrate ones on each side ; 

 posterior portion truncate, with a short tubercle on each side on 

 the verge of the truncation ; areolet 5-angular ; abdomen fusi- 

 form when viewed from above, slender at base, smooth and shin- 

 ing, ovipositor about as long as the first segment of the abdomen. 

 Length 3^ lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 68.) 



2. Phygadeuon zapotecus, n. sp. 



% . Black ; clothed with a short, golden pubescence, very dense 

 on face and metathorax ; scape and broad annulus on flagellum 

 pale yellow, first joint of the latter honey-3'ellow ; palpi, tcgulje, 

 and four anterior coxve and trochanters, whitish ; legs and abdo- 

 men, except first segment, honej'-yellow, tip of the latter with a 

 yellowish stain ; wings hyaline, tinged with yellowish, subiridcs- 

 cent, nervures and stigma brownish, the former pale yellow at 

 base. Head and thorax large, robust, abdomen small ; vertex 

 and face strongly punctured; antennae as long as body, filiform, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



basal joints of flagellum long, subequal ; thorax gibbous, feebly 

 punctured, shining; seutellum flat, metathorax opaque, witli well- 

 defined elevated lines, apex truncate ; wings ample, areolet 5-an- 

 gular ; legs slender; abdomen elongate, flattened, petiolate, smooth 

 and polished. Length 3^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



Genus MESOSTENUS, Grav. 

 Subgenus Polycyrtus, Spinola. 



This subgenus is distinguished by having a single spine or 

 tubercle on the front, behind the antenna?. The form is long and 

 very slender in all the species ; the three regions of the meso- 

 thorax prominent ; the first abdominal segment long, slender, and 

 gradually but not broadly dilated at apex ; and the areolet of an- 

 terior wing closed. 



The species may be tabulated as follows : 



Abdomen black, banded with white or yellowish : 

 Metathorax with cruciform black mark above : 



Second abdominal segment with a white sublunate mark on each side, 



and third segment with a white lateral spot 1. melanoleucus. 



Sides of second and third segments broadly margined with white. 



2. ferox. 



Metathorax with a central black stripe, often dilated medially and crossed 



by a slender line near base : 



Second abdominal segment with a subtriangular white mark on basal 



middle, and an elongate white mark on lateral margin. ... 3. major. 



Second abdominal segment with a sublunate mark on each side and 



lateral margin, white 4. acerbus. 



Second abdominal segment with a large, acute, cruciform mark on 



basal middle and a spot on lateral margin, white 5. macer. 



Second abdominal segment with an irregular, transverse, central mark 



near base 6. mancus. 



Second abdominal segment with basal half of lateral margin dilated ; 



metathorax broadly black at base 7. paululus. 



Metathorax with two black spots at base, and a central black stripe. 



8. junceus. 

 Metathorax with three black stripes, the lateral ones confluent at base, 



the central one short ; mesothorax with a central white spot. 



9. reliqiius. 

 Metathorax entirely honey -yellow, sometimes stained with fuscus ;it base 



above 10. copiosus. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Abdomen luteous, most of first and base of second and third segments 

 black; metatborax and pleura boney-ye.iow, the former Avith a 

 blackish stain at base 11. accuratus. 



Abdomen black on basal half; head, prothorax, and mesothorax black; 

 only the clypeus and mandibles white ; pleura and sides of meta- 

 tborax hone3''-yellow, the latter fuscous above ; posterior femora 

 black, their tibiae and tarsi bright yellow 12. furvus. 



Abdomen honey-yellow : 

 Metatborax with a central black stripe ; abdomen entirely pale honey- 

 yellow 18. univittatus. 



Metatborax entirely pale honey-yellow ; abdominal segments paler at 

 apex 14. pallidus. 



Abdomen and thorax vermilion-red ; basal margin of third and following 

 segments blackish ; head, except mouth, entirely black. 



15. atricepa. 



1. Polycyrtus melanoleucus. 



ATesostenus (Polyci/rhis) melanoleucus, Brulle, Hym., p. 204, %. 



9 Black; face, mouth, orbits broad on cheeks, broad annuliis 

 on antennae, collar, prominent upper margin of prothorax, two 

 short discal lines on mesothorax, a line on posterior margin before 

 scutellum, teguhe, spot on apex of scutelhnn and postscutellum, 

 from each side of which diverge a narrow line to base of wings, 

 pleura, except two or three black lines or spots, white ; metatbo- 

 rax white, a large cruciform mark on the disk, the transverse bar 

 very broad, a spot covering the spiracles and continued posteriorly 

 in a narrow line, a spot on each side above posterior coxre, and 

 the basal suture, black; legs yellow, coxre whitish, the two poste- 

 rior pair with a black stripe on outside, all the femora with a 

 black stripe above, the four anterior tibite above, their tarsi en- 

 tirely, and base of posterior tibioi fuscous ; wings hyaline, ner- 

 vures black ; abdomen above black, sides and apex of first seg- 

 ment, apex and a sublunate spot on each side of second, broad 

 apical and lateral margins of following segments, a transverse 

 line or spot on each extreme side of third segment, and the venter, 

 wliite. Smooth and shining ; frontal spine long and obtuse; au- 

 tenuiio as long as the body ; metathoracic spines long and sub- 

 acute ; areolet of anterior wing small, transverscl}' quadrate, 

 closed ; abdomen rather robust be3'ond first segment, which is 

 long and rather squarel}' dilated at apex. Length 6-G^ lines. 



%. Much more slender than ?, with longer antenna3 and legs; 

 the transverse l)arof the cross on metatborax is broader and sub- 

 triangular ; the legs have scared}' any tinge of j-ellowish ; the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



white spot on lateral middle of second abdominal segment is 

 ovate, and that on third very minute ; the wings are tinged with 

 dusliy. Length Sf lines. 

 Orizaba ; Cordova. 



2. Polycyrtus ferox, n. sp. 



9. Black; ftice, orbits broadly interrupted behind summit of 

 ej'es, broad annulus near apex of antenna?, collar, prominent up- 

 per margin of prothorax, two short discal lines on mesothorax, 

 and oblique marginal line on each side posteriorly, and the pleura, 

 white; scutellums and metathorax marked as in melanoleucus, 

 except that the transverse of the cross is confluent with the stig- 

 matal spot and lateral stripe ; wings hyaline or subhyaline, ner- 

 vures black ; legs as in preceding species, rather darker colored 

 and with the tibise entirely yellow ; lateral and apical margins of 

 abdominal segments, white, varying in breadtii on different seg- 

 ments. Elongate, slender, smooth and shining, more slender 

 than melanoleucus ; frontal spine robust, obtuse ; metathoracic 

 spines obtuse ; areolet elongate quadrate, narrow, closed ; legs 

 and abdomen long, slender ; second segment smoothly depressed 

 before base, narrower than in preceding species. Length t lines. 



Orizaba. 



3. Polycyrtus major, n. sp. 



9. Black; head, antennre and thorax as in vielanoleucus ; 

 metathorax pale luteous, with a black central stripe dilated medi- 

 call}', crossed near base by a slender line, confluent with spot 

 covering spiracles and then with lateral stripe, basal suture nar- 

 rowl}" black ; wings hyaline, faintly tinged with fuscous, nervures 

 blackish ; legs yellow, posterior coxse with black stripe, femora 

 brownish-yellow above and within, with a blackish stripe above, 

 four anterior tarsi and apical joint of posterior pair black; first 

 three abdominal segments black above, apical and lateral margins 

 of first, second, and third segments, very broad on the latter, a 

 triangular spot on basal middle of second segment, the lateral 

 margin of which is triangularly dilated near base, white; lateral 

 margin of third segment suddenly abbreviated near base ; re- 

 maining segments white, with narrow basal margins black. 

 Smooth, shining; form much as that o^ ferox ^ with abdomen 

 rather more robust, and second segment shorter, broader and 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



scarcely depressed near base ; frontal spine subacute, as are also 

 the metathoracic spines. Length 8^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



4. Polycyrtus acerbus, n. sp. 



$. Black; head, antennae, thorax, and legs marked as in 

 major; posterior tarsi white, with base yellow and claws black; 

 wings hyaline, nervures brown ; first segment of abdomen white, 

 with a narrow central black line above, interrupted near base and 

 broadly dilated near apex ; second and following segments black, 

 with broad apical and lateral white margins ; second segment with 

 sublunate white spot on each side and the third with small white 

 spot on lateral middle. Form slender; head, thorax and abdomen 

 smooth and shining, metathorax rugose, opaque ; frontal spine 

 short and obtuse ; metathoracic spines flat ; abdomen robust be- 

 yond first segment ; areolet small, quadrate, closed. Length 6 

 lines. 



Orizaba. Closely resembles melanoleiicus, but easily distin- 

 guished by the markings and sculpture of the metathorax. 



5. Polycyrtus macer, n. sp. 



% 9. Head, antennje, prothorax, and mesothorax black ; face, 

 mouth, orbits, broad annulus on antennae, collar and spot on each 

 side before tegular, two oblique lines before scutellum, tegultie, 

 apex of scutellum and postscutellum, with slender lines leading 

 to base of wings, and spot beneath tegulre, white ; pleura and 

 metathorax tinged with 3'ellowish, anterior margin of pleura, ex- 

 tending beneath, l)asal suture of metathorax, a broad central 

 stripe and a slender one on each side, the former crossed by a 

 short slender line ; black ; wings hyaline, faintly dusk}' on apical 

 margin, nervures black; legs dull luteous, trochanters and femora 

 more or less tinged with fuscous, tibiae yellow, four anterior tarsi 

 blackish, posterior pair white, with black claws; abdomen black 

 above, first segment white, with a subapical black spot, remaining 

 segments with rather broad apical, and uneven lateral white mar- 

 gins, the second with a long acute mark at base, sometimes cruci- 

 form. Long and slender, rather smooth and shining, pubescent ; 

 frontal horn ver}- short and acute; metathoracic spines short 

 and obtuse, antennre as long as body ; areolet minute, closed ; 

 abdomen long, slender, subcj'lindrical in %. Length G lines. 



Cordova. (Suniiclirast, Xo. 100.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



6. Polycyrtus mancus, n. sp. 



9. Very much like jjiacer, differing as follows : Size smaller- 

 the mesothorax has two short white discal lines ; the scutellum is 

 entirely white ; the transverse bar of the cruciform black mark 

 on metathorax is abbreviated laterally and not confluent with 

 stigmatal spot ; the second abdominal segment has a transverse 

 white mark near the base ; otherwise as in macer. Length 4| 

 lines. 



% In this sex the central black stripe on metathorax is 

 slender, being dilated between the spines, crossed b}' a slender 

 line near base and confluent on each side with stigmatal spot. 



Orizaba. 



7. Polycyrtus paululus. n, sp. 



9. Head, antennoe, and mesothorax black ; face, mouth, orbits, 

 broad annulus on antenna?, collar, line before tegula?, two short 

 discal lines on mesothorax, two oblique lines before scutellum, 

 tegulffi, scutellum except basal excavation, and spot on postscu- 

 tellum, white; pleura and metathorax whitish, basal suture of the 

 latter and three narrow longitudinal stripes, black ; legs pale 

 honey -yellow ; wings hyaline, iridescent ; abdomen above black, 

 apical margin of all the segments white. Small, slender, smooth 

 and shining; frontal spine short and acute; metathorax rugulose 

 down the middle, the spines long and acute ; abdomen verj^ slen- 

 der at base, gradually dilated towards apex; arcolet minute, 

 closed. Length 4 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 134.) 



8. Polycyrtus junceus, n. sp. 



% Black; face, mouth, orbits, interrupted behind, apex of 

 frontal spine, broad annulus on antennas, collar, spot on each side 

 before mesothorax, tegular, scutellum except base and central 

 spot, confluent with an oblique line on each side extending nearly 

 to tegulffi, and apex of postscutellum, white ; pleura and meta- 

 thorax whitish, the latter with two nearly confluent spots at base 

 to transverse carina and tlien a central black line dilated at each 

 end; wings hyaline, faintly fuscous at apex, nervures black; legs 

 yellowish, four posterior coxae with two faint fuscous stripes, the 

 trochanters and femora above, base of posterior tibite and the 

 four anterior tarsi, blackish; abdomen black above, lateral and 

 apical margins of all the segments white, becoming broader ou 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



apical segments. Form slender, smooth and shining ; mctathorax 

 and pleura unusually pubescent ; frontal spine long and acute; 

 metathoracic spines rather obtuse; antennie ver3Mong, slender ; 

 areolet minute, closed ; abdomen very slender, subcylindrical. 

 Length 5^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



9. Polycyrtus reliquus, n. ?p, 



% . Black ; face, clypeus, labrum, spot on mandibles, orbits 

 broad on cheeks, palpi, broad annulus near apex of antennre, col- 

 lar above, line on each side before tegula?, spot on disk of meso- 

 thorax, two spots before scutellum, tegulw, transverse spot be- 

 neath, spot on scutellum, another on postscutellum, pleura beneath 

 and a large oblique mark on each side, 3'ellowish-white ; mcta- 

 thorax yellowish-white, with three black stripes, the lateral ones 

 confluent at base, the central one abbreviated anteriorly ; wings 

 h3'aline, iridescent, apex faintly dusky, nervures black; legs yel- 

 low, coxiB yellowish-white, the two posterior pair with a black 

 stripe ; four anterior femora above, the posterior pair on the out- 

 side and witiiin, base of their tibire and tips of all the tarsi, black ; 

 abdomen black, first segment except large spot before apex, aj^ical 

 margin of all the remaining segments, and large transverse spot 

 at base of second segment, white. Shining; mesothorax pitted; 

 metathorax transversely rugose, without tubercles or spines ; t\h- 

 domen long and slender, smooth and shining ; antenna? as long 

 as body ; frontal horn long and acute ; areolet ver}^ minute, 

 closed. Length 6^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



10. Polycyrtus copiosus, n. sp. 



9. Head; antenna?, prothorax and mesothorax bla(Jv ; middle 

 of face, orbits interrupted behind, cl^'peus, spot on mandibles, apex 

 of frontal horn, broad annulus on antenna?, collar, line on each 

 side before teguhie, two oblique lines before scutellum, teguhv, apex 

 of scutellum and slender lines leading to base of wings, white ; 

 pleura, metatliorax and legs lutcous ; metathorax often more 

 or less dusky from the base to spines ; four anterior tarsi blackish, 

 posterior trochanters and femora more or less duskj' above, their 

 tibia? shading into yellow, and their tarsi paler ; wings hyaline, 

 nervures fuscous; first abdominal segment dull luteous, darker 

 towards apex which is white ; basal half of second and third seg- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



ments black, remainder white, with base of third segment narrowly 

 black : second seijraent with a white dot on each side near base. 

 Smooth and shining; metathoracic spines A'ery long, sliglitly re- 

 curved at tip wliich is obtuse ; areolet quadrate, closed ; abdomen 

 robust beyond first segment; legs and antennie ver}- long and 

 slender. Length 5^ lines. 



%. More slender than 9, witli face entirely white, and all the 

 abdominal segments black, banded at apex with white.. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 105.) Common. 



11. Polycyrtus accuratus, n. sp. 



9. Head and mesothorax black; face orbits, mouth, upper 

 margin of prothorax, two short lines on each lateral lobe of meso- 

 thorax, an oblique line on each side leading to scutellum, apex 

 of scutellum and tegula?, white; antenna? black, with broad white 

 annulus ; middle and base of scutellum black ; base of metathorax 

 with two nearly contiguous blaclc spots reaching to transverse 

 carina; remainder of thorax luteous; legs luteous, except four 

 anterior tarsi which are blackish ; wings hyaline, nervures fus- 

 cous ; abdomen luteous, paler than rest of body, first segment ex- 

 cept apex, base of second and narrow basal margin of third seg- 

 ment, black. Form slender, smooth and sliining; frontal horn 

 obtuse ; metathoracic spines long and blunt ; areolet of anterior 

 wing transversely- quadrate, closed ; abdomen slender, rather 

 thickly clothed with appressed black pubescence, and at apex be- 

 neath with long black hair. Length 5^ lines. 



Mirador. 



12. Polycyrtus furvus, n. sp. 



%. Head, antennne, pro- and mesothorax, most of scutellum 

 and posterior femora, black ; cl^'peus, labrum, spot on mandibles, 

 palpi, broad annulus on antennjc, and two slender oblique lines 

 before scutellum, white ; pleura metathorax, and four anterior legs, 

 dull luteous ; metathorax above and posterior coxre dark fuscous 

 or blackish ; four anterior tibiae yellow, their tarsi dusky, posterior 

 tibiae and tarsi pale 3'ellow; wings hyaline, faintly duskj'- at tips, 

 nervures black ; first, second, and base of third segments of abdo- 

 men black, the remainder pale brown ; narrow apical margin of 

 first segment, broad apical margin, and a short narrow stripe on 

 basal lateral margin of second segment, pale. Form slender, 

 smooth and shining ; antennae longer than body ; frontal horn long, 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



stout, subacute ; uietathoracic spines long, subacute and slightly 

 recurved ; abdomen very slender at base, the first segment with 

 a prominent tubercle before apex ; areolet quadrate, closed. 

 Length 5^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



13. Polycyrtus univittatus, n. sp. 



% 9 . Head, antenna, pro- and raesothorax, anterior margin of 

 pleura, spot beneath wings, scutellar region and dilated stripe down 

 middle of raetathorax, black; face, mouth, orbits, broad annulus 

 on antennoe, collar, line on each side before tegulre, tegula?, spot 

 above, another beneath, scutellum, and two oblique lines in front, 

 white; wings pale fusco-hj-aline, nervures brown; remainder of 

 nietathorax, legs, and abdomen pale honey-yellow. Slender, smooth 

 and shining; frontal spine very short and acute ; middle of nieta- 

 thorax rugulose, and in place of the usual spines there is a promi- 

 nent transverse carina; legs and abdomen slender, especialh' of 

 % ; areolet minute, closed. Length 4-4|^ lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 97.) Common. 



14. Polycyrtus pallidus, n. sp. 



%. Pale honey-3'ellow ; head, antennre, pro- and mesothorax, 

 black; face, mouth, orbits, frontal spine, very broad annulus on 

 antennre occupying nearly the apical half, collar, teguhe, line on 

 each side before, spots on scutellum and two oblique lines in front, 

 white; wings hyaline, nervures pale; metathoracic tubercles, tarsi, 

 and apex of abdominal segments, whitish. Slender, smooth and 

 shining; frontal spine robust, obtuse; metathorax with two blunt 

 tubercles; areolet quadrate, closed; abdomen and legs long and 

 slender. Length 4| lines. 



Cordova. 



15. Polycyrtus atriceps, n. sp. 



9. Bright red, legs paler ; head and antennoe black; clypeus 

 and. broad annulus on antennre white ; posterior tibire yellow, their 

 tarsi whitish; wings h^yaline; basal margin of tliird and following 

 segments blackisli. Slender, smooth and shining ; frontal and 

 metathoracic spines robust and obtuse ; areolet closed. Length 

 4 lines. 



Orizaba. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Subgenus PolytEnus. 



This subgenus is formed for the reception of two species differ- 

 ing from Polycyrtus in having tioo short nearly contiguous spines 

 on the front. The form is also shorter and more robust, the 

 regions of the mesothorax not at all prominent, and the first ab- 

 dominal segment rather short and broadly though gradually 

 dilated at apex. The areolet of anterior wing is elongate, narrow, 

 and closed. 



1. Polyaenus ectypus, n. sp. 



9. -Black; face, mouth, orbits, collar, tegulne, spot before, an- 

 other beneath, apex of scutellum, two oblique lines in front, post- 

 scutelhim, pleura except anterior margin, raetathorax except a 

 broad central stripe crossed near base by a slender line to spira- 

 cles, legs, base of first abdominal segment, broad apical and lateral 

 margins of all the segments, and basal corners of second segment, 

 yellowish-white; broad annulus on antennae pure white; wings 

 hyaline ; trochanters, femora above and tarsal tips dusk3% Slender, 

 shining; frontal spines short, acute; upper lateral angles of pro- 

 thorax prominent, tuberculiform ; metathorax longitudinally 

 rugose down the middle, the spines prominent, obtuse ; abdomen 

 polished ; areolet small, narrow, closed. Length 5 lines. 



Orizaba. 



2. Polyaenus ablatus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, orbits broadly interrupted behind, 

 tegulffi, spot in front, dot beneath, apex of scutellum, two oblique 

 lines in front, postscutellum, space behind base of wings, flanks 

 of metathorax, two elongate marks on its posterior face covering 

 spines, broad oblique mark on each side of pleura, most of legs, 

 base of first abdominal segment, broad apical and narrow lateral 

 margins of all the segments, and basal corners f second segment, 

 yellowish white; broad annulus near apex of antennoe pure white; 

 wings hyaline ; all the coxte within, four anterior ti'ochanters be- 

 neath, the posterior pair except base above, four anterior femora 

 beneath, tips of their tai'si, and posterior femora, except two 

 broad yellow stripes one outwardly and the other above, black ; 

 posterior tWnx bright yellow. Head and thorax robust, densely 

 and confluently punctured, pubescent ; frontal spines sliort, acute ; 

 upper lateral margins of prothorax not so prominent as in ectypus; 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



metathoracic spines long, prominent, obtuse; areolet narrow, 

 closed ; abdomen smooth and polished. Length i^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



Subgenus Mesostenus. 



In this subgenus the form is much more robust than in Poly- 

 cyrtiis. The head has no frontal spine or tubercle; the lobes of 

 mesothorax generally not prominent, often scarcely indicated ; 

 the metathorax varies in form, with the spines sometimes long and 

 acute, and sometimes entirely wanting ; the areolet of anterior 

 wing, always small, also varies much in shape, and although gene- 

 rally closed, is sometimes open. 



The species are numerous and ma}' be separated by the cha- 

 racters a;iveu in the following table. 



Abdomen black, banded with white or yellow : 

 Mesothorax with white discal spot : 

 Metathorax with lateral tubercle or spine : 



Metathorax with three black stripes, connected by a broad black band 

 at base ; posterior coxfe pale fulvous, their femora black within ; 

 scntellum white at apex 1. aztecus. 



Metathorax as in aztecus ; posterior coxoe with broad black lateral 

 stripe, their femora black above and within ; scutelhun white at 

 apex 2. propmquus. 



Metathorax with three black stripes, connected at base by a narrow 

 black band ; posterior coxre with a narrow black stripe, tlicir 

 femora black above and beneath ; second abdominal segment with 

 a transverse whitish mark on basal middle ; scutellum white at tip. 



3. compactus. 



Metathorax black, with two elongate white spots covering spines, 

 and a large white spot on each flank ; posterior coxa; with a sub- 

 cordate black mark above, their femora trivittate with black ; scu- 

 tellum white 4. discus. 



Metathorax as in discus ; posterior coxre with two short black stripes 

 above ; their femora bivittate with black ; scutellum white. 



5. facilis. 



Metathorax black, tubercles and spot on each flank, Avhite ; posterior 

 coxfc marked Avith black, their femora black beneath and at tips ; 

 scutellum white 6. acceptus. 



Metathorax black at base, with three slender black stripes ; posterior 

 coxa; with lateral black stripe, their femora entirely pale fulvous ; 

 second abd(nninal segment broadl}' Avhite at base and apex ; scu- 

 tellum white 7. modicus. 



Metathorax fulvous, black at base above ; discal spot of mesothorax 

 often furcate anteriorly ; legs, except tips of tarsi, fulvous ; scu- 

 tellum white 8. communis. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



3[etatliorax without lateral tubercle or spine : 



Metathorax black above, with au elongate, subtrefoil, white mark ex- 

 tending to apex 9. chichimecus. 



Metathorax black above, with two white spots near base, and an 

 elongate, median, white spot dilated at apex ; second abdominal 



segment with a white dot on basal middle 10. admirandus. 



Metathorax black above, with an arcuate white line at apex ; poste- 

 rior femora bivittate with black ; sciitellum black at tip. 



11. arcuatus. 

 Metathorax black above, with a large quadrate white mark on pos- 

 terior face, inclosing a small quadrate black spot, there is also three 

 small white marks on basal margin posterior coxse with a black 

 stripe or elongate spot above, their femora with a black stripe 



above 13. admotus. 



Mesothorax with two short white discal lines : 



Metathorax with three black stripes connected by a broad black band 



at base ; legs luteous, all the femora black above. 13. niexicaiius. 



Metathorax as in mexkanus ; posterior legs black, their coxne Avhitish, 



with a large black spot above, their femora reddish on basal half, 



and most of their tarsi white ; antenruB entirely black except scape 



heneutli 14. lassatus. 



Metathorax as m mexicanus ; legs fulvous, tarsi whitish tipped with 



black 15. moratus. 



Metathorax as in mexicanus^ with basal band narrow and inclosing a 

 white spot on each side ; legs as in moratm ; second abdominal 

 segment with an elongate white spot on basal middle. 



16. absoliitus. 



Metathorax with a broad central stripe, sometimes dilated anteriorly, 



not reaching basal suture ; legs fulvous, posterior tarsi white, black 



at base and apex 17. accolens. 



Metathorax with a subcruciform black mark, the posterior stem broad, 

 the cross-piece triangular, the anterior stem narrow and reaching the 

 basal suture ; legs fulvous, posterior tarsi white, black onlj^ at tips. 



18. novatus. 



Mesothorax with a white line on each lateral lobe, and a white spot on 



each side of middle lobe, which is prominent and grooved medially. 



19. stupidus. 



Mesothorax with a central white stripe 20. abactus. 



Mesothorax black, immaculate. 

 Metathorax broadly black at base, with three broad black stripes to apex ; 

 posterior femora rufous, black at base and apex, their tibite fulvous, 



their tarsi yellow 21. admonitus. 



Abdomen mostly reddish : 

 Metathorax black and white : 



Abdomen yellowish-red, sometimes black at base 22. incertus 



Abdomen yellowish-red, with whitish bands 23. animatus. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Metathorax and abdomeu entirely yellowish red : 

 Head, pro- and mesotliorax, and scutellum black and Tvliite. 



24. perteniiis. 



Head black, thorax reddish 2o. collaris. 



Head, thorax, and abdomen entirely black ; four anterior legs and liind tarsi 

 pale 2G. arctus. 



1. Mesostenus aztecus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, clj'peus, spot on mandibles, anterior orbits, 

 cheeks, broad annulus on antennae, collar, tegula?, line in front, 

 spot beneath, spot on disk of mesotliorax, apex of scutellum, two 

 oblique lines in front, postscutellum, mark behind base of wings, 

 two elongate marks on posterior face of metathorax from spines, 

 covering them, to apex, a large mark on flanks, a large subcunci- 

 form mark on each side of pleura and two subquadrate spots be- 

 neath, whitish; wings hyaline, apex dusk}-, nervures black; legs 

 luteous-yellow, posterior coxre hone^'-yellow, four anterior coxre 

 and base of posterior pair whitish, all the femora within, posterior 

 knees and extreme tips of tarsi, black; abdomen black above, base 

 and apex of first segment, apical margins of the following segments, 

 and a spot on each basal corner of second segment, white or ^-el- 

 lowish-white. Large, elongate, robust, thorax opaque, abdomen 

 shining; upper lateral angles of prothorax subtuberculate ; meta- 

 thorax transversel}' striated behind, the spines prominent, obtuse 

 and slightly recurved; areolet subquadrate, narrow, closed. 

 Length 8 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, Xos. 62 and 55.) 



2. Mesostenus propinquus, n. sp. 



9 ^Marked like azlecus. except tliat the two apical white marks 



on raetatliorax are continued for a short distance above the spines, 

 which are not recurved at tip ; the pleura is cntirel}' black beneath, 

 the lateral spot with a slender hook beneath, projecting forward; 

 the posterior coxjb are white, with a broad black mark on outside 

 and a smaller one within ; the abdomen is more robust, the first 

 segment shorter and more squarely dilated at apex ; the upper 

 lateral angles of prothorax are not prominent. Length G-7i 

 lines. 



% Antennae rather longer than body; posterior legs very 

 long, with tips of their tibije black; abdomen short, narrow, the 

 first segment black, with a narrow central mark and apical margin 

 pale; otherwise like ?. Length 7 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 78.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHTA. 153 



3. Mesostenns compactus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, clypeus, spot on mandibles, orbits in-egular 

 in front and dilated on cheeks, annnlus on antennte, collar, tegnlae, 

 spot in front, another beneath, another on disk of mesothorax, 

 apex of scutellum, two spots in front, postscntelhim, two slender 

 lines to base of wings, space behind, wings, pleura beneath, spot 

 on each side, two broad stripes on posterior face of metathorax 

 covering spines, and a large mark on flanks, white or whitish ; 

 wings hyaline, nervures black; legs luteous yellow, coxae whitish, 

 spot on posterior coxae, base and apex of trochanters, four ante- 

 rior femora above, stripe on upper and lower edge of posterior 

 pair, confluent at base and apex within, black ; abdomen black 

 above, base of first segment, broad apical margin of all the seg- 

 ments and three spots at base of second the central one trans- 

 verse, the lateral ones sublunate j^ellowish-white, the two apical 

 segments have a central black band. Robust, compact, opaque ; 

 mesothorax densely and coarsely' pitted ; metathorax rugose, reti- 

 culated ; abdomen smooth and shining, robust, first segment 

 squarel}"^ dilated at tip; upper lateral angles of prothorax pro- 

 duced into a prominent, robust, subacute spine; metathoracic 

 spines prominent and obtuse; areolet small, quadrate, closed. 

 Length 5 lines. 



Orizaba. 



4. Mesostenus discus, n. sp. 



9. Differs from propinquus as follows: Orbits interrupted 

 behind eyes; scutellum very flat, entirely yellowish-white ; with- 

 out spots in front; the posterior coxae have a cordate black spot 

 above, confluent with apical suture, their femora have two black 

 stripes above and one beneath, all confluent at base and apex, tips 

 of all their tarsi black ; the meso- and metathorax are densely 

 and coarsely rugose, the former finely striated on disk ; the areo- 

 let is small, quadrate and open ; the upper lateral angles of pro- 

 thorax are prominent. Length 6-6^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



5. Mesostenus facilis, n. sp. 



9 . Very much like discus, except that the posterior coxa) have 



two short black stripes above, and their femora a black stripe on 



each side above; the tibiie and tarsi are yellow, the latter tipped 



with black, the posterior pair lemon-yellow ; the abdomen is more 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



slender; tlie mesothorax is very irregularly sculptured, the 

 posterior middle longitudinally striated ; metatborax reticulated. 

 Length 5f lines. 

 Orizaba. 



6. Mesostejius acceptus, n. sp. 



9. Black; middle of face, clypeus, spot on mandibles, palpi, 

 orbits, annulus on antennae, collar, tegulae, spot in front, short 

 line beneath, round spot on disk of mesothorax, scutellum, spot 

 on postscutellum, two spots on metathorax covering tubercles, 

 spot on flanks, mark behind base of wings, and large mark on 

 each side of pleura, white ; wings lu'aline. dusk}- at apex, nervures 

 black; legs yellow, coxae whitish, anterior and posterior pairs 

 black at base, the latter also at tip, base of trochanters, all the 

 femora beneath, posterior pair at tips and all the tarsal tips, black ; 

 abdomen black above, with all the segments broadly banded at 

 apex with whitish. Robust, opaque ; mesothorax rugulose, pos- 

 terior middle longitudinall}' striated ; metathorax densely rugose, 

 tubercles short, robust and obtuse; legs robust; areolet minute, 

 open ; abdomen broad, robust. Length 4-5 lines. 



Orizaba. 



7. Mesostenus modicus, n. sp. 



9 . Black ; face, mouth, broad orbits, broad annulus on antennae, 

 scape beneath, collar, tegulae, line in front, spot beneath, spot on 

 disk of mesothorax. scutellum, two oblique lines in front, post- 

 scutellum, mark behind base of wings, most of pleura, flanks of 

 metathorax and two broad stripes on posterior face, white ; wings 

 faintly dusky, iridescent, nervures fuscous ; legs j-ellow, coxae 

 whitish, spot on intermediate pair, line on posterior pair and tips 

 of tarsi, black ; abdomen whitish, spot near apex of first segment, 

 a broad mark on middle of second, basal half of third, narrow 

 basal margin of second, fourth and the following segments and 

 narrow apical margin of first segment, black. Slender, somewhat 

 shining; mesothorax feeblj^ punctured; metathorax finely rugose, 

 the tubercles ver}' short and obtuse ; areolet minute, very narrow 

 and open. Length 4 lines. 



Cordova. 



8. Uesostenui communis, n. sp. 



5. Black ; narrow orbits, transverse mark on clypeus, labrum, 

 spot on mandibles, annulus on antcnnce incomplete beneath, line 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



on collar, tegulfc, spot benitli, a furcate mark on disk of meso- 

 tliorax, sciitellum, dot on postscutelliun and apical margins of 

 abdominal segments, white or j-ellovvish-wliite ; oltliqne mark on 

 pleura, space behind base of wings, metathorax except broad black 

 band at base, and the legs, dull honey-yellow ; base of trochanters, 

 posterior knees and tips of tarsi, blackish ; most of posterior tarsi 

 whitish; wings hyaline, dusk^^ at apex, nervures fuscous. Meta- 

 thorax rugulose, smooth at base, with two transverse carinas, the 

 posterior one produced into a prominent flattened tubercle on each 

 side ; abdomen very slender at base, the first segment with a small 

 tubercle on each side before apex ; areolet minute, open. Length 

 5^ lines. 



Z. Yery slender; annulus on antennoe broader and entire; 

 face white, with two central black dots ; two white lines before 

 tegulse ; metathorax without tubercles; tips of posterior tibiui 

 black, their tarsi white. Length 5 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. (Sumichrast, Xo. 104.) Common. 



9. Mesostenus chichimecus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, orbits, and broad annulus on antennae, 

 white ; collar, tegulae, line in front, spot lieneath, cuneiform mark 

 on disk of mesothorax, scutellums, spot beneath posterior wing, 

 pleura except narrow space beneath wings and anterior margin, 

 flanks of metathorax, an elongate, subtrefoil mark on posterior 

 face, base of first abdominal segment, rather broad apical and 

 narrow lateral margins of all the segments, and a dot on lateral 

 margin of second and third segments, yellowish-white ; wings 

 hyaline, apical margins narrowly dusky, nervures black ; legs 

 yellowish-white, tibiae and tarsi yellow, stripe on all the coxae, all 

 the femora above, middle tibiii3 above, four anterior tarsi and pos- 

 terior knees black ; seventh sejiment of abdomen as lona: as the 

 second, while the fourth, fifth, and sixth are very short ; the black 

 space at base of seventh segment much extended, narrowed pos- 

 teriorly, making the yellowish margin broad luterall}^ and nar- 

 row centrall}'. Densely punctured, subopacjue; metathorax ru- 

 gose, rounded, without tubercles or spines; areolet quadrate, 

 closed; abdomen densely punctured. Length 5^-7 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 87.) 



10. Mesostenus admirandus, n. sp. 



9 Black ; face, clypeus except tip, labrum. base of mandibles, 




156 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



orbits, tegnlae, line in front, spot beneath, spot on disk of meso- 

 tborax, scutelluras, two round spots at base of metatborax, flanks, 

 an elongate mark on posterior face broadly dilated at apex, most 

 of pleura, base and apex of first abdominal segment, apical and 

 lateral margins of remaining segments, and a triangular spot on 

 basal middle of second segment, all pale lemon-3'ellow ; broad an- 

 nulus on antennre white; wings hyaline, extreme apex dusk}', 

 nervures black ; legs j-ellowish-white, posterior tibise and tarsi 

 bright yellow ; stripe on outside of all the coxae, posterior pair 

 within, trochanters above, stripe on anterior femora above, double 

 stripe on middle pair and posterior pair except yellowish stripe 

 on outside, black; four anterior tarsi dusky. Form same as that 

 of cJiichimecus, shining, mesothorax strongly trilobate, sparsely 

 punctured; metathorax transversely rugose; abdomen smooth 

 and shining, sparsely punctured, seventh segment large, as in 

 chichimecus. Length 6 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



11. 'Mesostenus arcuatus, n. sp. 



9 Black; face, clj'peus, spot on mandibles, broad orbits in- 

 terrupted posteriorly, collar, teguhe, two very short lines before, 

 spot beneath, round spot on disk of mesothorax, scutellum, spot 

 on postscutellum, large mark on pleura, mark behind base of 

 wings, spot on flanks of metathorax, an arcuated line on pos- 

 terior face, and apical margins of abdominal segments, broad on 

 the three basal and very narrow on the remaining segments, 

 lemon-yellow; broad annulus on antennju white; legs pale yel- 

 lowish, the tibial and posterior tarsi briglit ^-ellow; spot on tips 

 of coxfe, four anterior femoia above and within, posterior pair 

 except broad stripe on either side and the four anterior tarsi, 

 black ; wings hA-aline, apex faintly dusky, nervures black. Sub- 

 opaque, metathorax obliquely truncate behind, without tubercles 

 or spines, the posterior truncation transversely rugose, the base 

 smooth and shining, and beneath the transverse carina a row of 

 radiating stria?; areolet small, 5-angular, outer nervure hyaline. 

 Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



12. Mesostenus admotus, n. i>p. 



9. Differs from aibmrandus as follows: The pale color more 

 whitish ; the metathorax broadly black at base, with a slender 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



black line clown each side id a subapical black spot, and, instead 

 of there being tAvo round spots at base, there are three, the lateral 

 one transverse, notched behind at the spiracles and confluent 

 with spot on the flanks, the middle one a narrow transverse line 

 bent at right angles posteriorly, the surface smooth with two 

 transverse suliarcuate carinas; the coxre have an elongate black 

 mark on outside, the posterior pair immaculate within ; tips of 

 posterior tarsi black; bands of abdomen white, dilated laterally, 

 base of second segment without spot ; the seventh segment large, 

 as in the two preceding species. Length 5^ lines, 

 Orizaba. 



13. Mesostenus mexicanus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, orbits interrupted beliind eyes, white 

 annulus on antennne, collar, tegub^, line before, another beneath, 

 two short discal lines on mesothorax, two oblique lines in front 

 of scutellum, apex of scutellum and postscutellum, large elongate 

 mark on pleura, mark behind wings, two elongate marks on pos- 

 terior face of metathorax covering spines, a large ovate mark on 

 flanks, posterior coxae except outward black stripe, base and apex 

 of first abdominal segment, lateral and broad apical margins of 

 remaining segments, white ; wings h3'aline, apical margins nar- 

 rowly dusky ; legs luteous, tibitB and tarsi yellowish, all the 

 femora black al)ove. Robust ; thorax punctured ; metathorax 

 transversely striated behind, the striae confused or radiating 

 above the spines, extreme base smooth, the spines subacute, 

 prominent; abdomen robust, smooth and shining, first segment 

 squarel}'^ dilated at apex, gastrocoeli indicated by a transverse 

 white spot. Length 7 lines. 



%. More slender, antennsB and legs longer, knees and apex of 

 posterior tibiae black. Length 6 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. t.) 



14. Mesostenus lassatus, n. sp. 



%. Black; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, collar, 

 tegulae, dilated line before, dot beneath, two short discal lines on 

 mesothorax, scutellums, space behind base of wings, pleura ex- 

 cept anterior margins, flanks of metathorax, tvvo elongate spots 

 on posterior face covering tubercles, coxae, posterior tarsi, base of 

 first abdominal segment and apical margin of all the segments, 

 white ; wings hyaline, iridescent, apical margin faiutly dusky ; 




lf>8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



legs pale hone3--3'ellow, spot on posterior coxae above, their tro- 

 chanters, base and extreme apex of their femora, their tibiae en- 

 tirely, four anterior tarsi, base and apex of posterior pair, black. 

 Slender; mesothorax closely punctured; metathorax reticulated, 

 tubercles small, robust, blunt ; areolet small, 5-angular, open ; legs 

 and abdomen long, slender. Length 4 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



15. Mesostenua moratus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, broad orbits, broad annulus on an- 

 tennte, collar, tegular, triangular mark in front and spot beneatli, 

 two abbreviated lines on mesothorax, scutellum, two oblique lines 

 in front, spot on postscutellum, oblique spot beneath posterior 

 wings, a larger one behind, two elongate marks on metathorax 

 behind covering spines, a large oblique mark on each flank, coxib 

 except a short black line on posterior pair, first abdominal seg- 

 ment except subapical spot, basal corners of second segment and 

 broad apical margin of second and following segments, white or 

 whitish ; wings hyaline, nerviires Itrown ; legs pale honey-yellow, 

 tarsi paler, their tips black. Robust, opaque, mesothorax finely 

 shagreened ; metatiiorax longitudinally rugose, tubercles promi- 

 nent, blunt ; areolet 5-angular, open ; basal segment of abdomen 

 broadly dilated at tip. Length 4 lines. 



%. Ver}' slender; metathorax yellowish-white, a broad band 

 at base continued posteriorly in a slender line for a short distance 

 on each side, and a short stripe on apical middle, black ; two 

 lines on each of the four posterior trochanters and extreme base 

 and apex of posterior tarsi (the remainder of which is white) also 

 black ; metathoracic spines short and acute. Length 4 lines. 

 Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 76.) 



16. Mesostenus absolutus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, orbits, broad annulus on antennae, 

 collar, teguhe, line in front, two short discal lines on mesothorax, 

 scutellum, two oblique lines in front, postscutellum, and pleura, 

 white or yellowish-white; metathorax 3-ellowish-wliite, with a 

 broad black band at base, inclosing a round whitish spot on each 

 side, from which band three black stripes proceed to the apex; 

 wings hyaline, nervures fuscous; legs honey-3'cllow, coxae whitisli, 

 the posterior pair with a slender black stripe, four anterior tarsi 

 fuscous, posterior pair whitish with base yellow and apex black ; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



abdomen black above, first segment except a subapical spot, 

 narrow lateral and broad apical margins of second and following 

 segments and an acute ovate spot on basal middle of second seg- 

 ment, white. Slender, opaque ; mesothorax coarsely and conflu- 

 ently pitted ; nietatborax rugose, tubercles flat and obtuse ; ab- 

 domen smooth, slender; areolet 5-angular, open. Length 5 lines. 

 Cordova. 



17. Mesostenus accolens, n. $p. 



9. Black; face, mouth, broad orbits, annulus on antennae, 

 collar, tegulae, broad line in front, spot beneath, two short discal 

 lines on mesothorax, scutellum, two oblique spots in front, dot 

 on postscutellum, pleura and space behind base of wings, white ; 

 raetathorax tinged with honey -yellow, tubercles whitish, a broad 

 central stripe dilated at base, and a narrow basal stripe on each 

 side, black ; wings faintly dusky, nervures fuscous; legs honej'- 

 yellow, four anterior coxiB and spot at base of posterior pair 

 paler, four anterior tarsi dusky, posterior pair white, black at 

 base and apex ; abdomen black above, base of first segment 

 honey-j'ellow, apical margin of all the segments rather broadly 

 white, becoming narrower on apical segments. Opaque, thorax 

 and abdomen smooth, metathorax coarsely rugose, tubercles flat, 

 obtuse ; areolet very small, quadrate, open ; abdomen slender at 

 base, remainder oblong-ovate. Length 4^-5 lines. 



Mirador. 



18. Mesostenus novatus, n. sp. 



5. Much like accolens, but differs as follows: The anmilus on 

 antennae broader ; metathorax longer, the distance between base 

 and tubercles greater, the broad black central mark is subcruci- 

 form, and confluent with a triangular spot at base ; posterior coxae 

 entirely honey-yellow, their tarsi yellow at base and black at tips ; 

 first abdominal segment with the subapical spot continued to base 

 in a slender line ; areolet 5-angular, open ; abdomen more elongate 

 and narrow. Length 5^ lines. 



Mirador. 



19. Mesostenus stupidus, n. sp. 



9 Black; face, mouth, orbits, narrow annnlns on antennae, 



collar, tegulae, line in front, spot beneath, two long longitudinal 

 lines on mesothorax interrupted by the impressed lines, scutel- 

 lum, spot on postscutellum, spot beneath wings, space behind 




IGO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



wings, flanks of metathorax, broad arcuated line on posterior face 

 covering spines, coxae, posterior tarsi except base and apex, and 

 apical margins of all the abdominal segments, white or soiled 

 white; wings hyaline, iridescent ; legs pale honey-yellow, stripe 

 on posterior coxae, four anterior tarsi and apex of posterior tibiae, 

 black or fuscous. Metathorax deeply excavate behind, the 

 upper edge carinate and produced on each side into an obtuse 

 tubercle; areolet minute, open; sutures of thorax crenulated, 

 middle lobe of mesothorax witli a crenulated central impressed 

 line ; antennae long and ver3^ slender. Length 4 lines. 

 Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 01.) 



20. Mesostenus abactus, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, orbits, scape beneath, broad annulus 

 on flagellum, collar, tegulae, line before, central stripe on meso- 

 thorax, scutellum, line on each side before, band behind dilated 

 behind base of wings, flanks of metathorax, two elongate marks 

 on posterior face covering tubercles, pleura except an oblique lino 

 beneath wings, coxre except stripe on outside of posterior pair and 

 their base within, base of fust and rather broad apical margin of 

 all the segments, white; wings hyaline; legs pale hone3'-yellow, 

 tips of all the tarsi black, the posterior pair yellow. Opaque, 

 middle lobe of mesothorax finely aciculated transversely* ; meta- 

 thorax rugose, tubercles transverse, verj' blunt ; areolet very 

 minute, open. Length 4 lines. 



Mirador. 



21. Mesostenus admonitus, n. .p. 



%, Black; face, mouth, narrow orbits, annulus on antennae, 

 teguhxi, spot in front, another beneath, scutellum except base, spot 

 on postsculellum, space behind base of wings, spot on each flank 

 of metathorax, two elongate marks on i)ostcrior face covering 

 spines, four anterior coxae and trochanters, large spot on posterior 

 coxic above, tarsi except tips, base of first abdominal segment 

 and apical margin of all the segments, dilated laterally', white or 

 yellowish-white; wings hyaline, nervures black; femora and tibiae 

 pale honey-yellow, the posterior femora black at base and apex. 

 Head and thorax robust, abdomen slender; mesothorax dcn.sely 

 rugose ; metathorax rugose, posterior face coarsely reticulated, 

 tubercles flat and obtuse; upper anterior angles of prothorax very 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 161 



prominent and tubcrciiliform ; areolet minute, open ; ulidomeu 

 smootli and opaque. Length 4^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



22. Mesostenus incertus, n. sp. 



9. Head, antennae and tliorax, black; face, clypeus, orbits 

 interrupted posteriorly, spot on mandibles, annulus on antenna, 

 collar, tegulae, line before, spot beneath, spot on disk of meso- 

 thorax, scutellums, two oblique lines in front, oblique mark on 

 pleura, space behind base of wings, two elongate marks on poste- 

 rior face of metathorax covering spines, a mark on flanks, and 

 four anterior coxsb, white ; wings hyaline, apex dusky, nervures 

 black; posterior coxa?, femora, and abdomen hone3'--yellow, remain- 

 der of legs bright yellow; four anterior femora more or less black 

 behind; in one specimen the first abdominal segment is 3'ellow 

 with a large black spot near apex. Upper margins of prothorax 

 prominent; raesothorax punctured; metathoi'ax reticulated at 

 base and sides, transversely striated posteriorly, spines prominent 

 and subacute; areolet quadrate, closed; abdomen smooth and 

 shining. Length 5| lines. 



% . Upper lateral angles of prothorax tuberculiform ; black 

 spot on middle of scutellum ; posterior coxae with black stripe, 

 their femora entirely black ; first and middle of second abdominal 

 segment black, remainder of abdomen dull houey-j^ellow. Length 

 4^ lines. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. 



23. Mesostenus animatus, n. sp. ' 



9 Head, antennae and thorax black; face except broad mark 

 above clypeus, mouth, clypeus, orbits broad on cheeks, broad 

 annulus on antennae, collar, tegulae, line before, spot beneath, two 

 short discal lines on mesothorax, scutellum, two oblique lines in 

 front, spot on postscutellum, space behind base of wings, flanks of 

 metathorax, two elongate marks on posterior face covering tuber- 

 cles, large mark on eacli side of pleura, four anterior coxae and 

 trochanters, spot at base of posterior coxae and their tarsi except 

 extreme base and apex which are black, all white; wings hyaline, 

 nervures fuscous ; legs and abdomen pale honey-yellow, base and 

 apex of first and apical margins of second, third, and fourth seg- 

 ments whitish. Smooth, shining; mesotliorax strongly* trilobate ; 

 metathorax rugulose, with two transverse carinaa, the posterior 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



one very prominent on each side ; al)donien polished, slender at 

 base and then oblong-ovate; areolet very minute, open; antennas 

 long and very slender. Length 3^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



24. Mesostenus pertenuis, n. sp. 



%. Hone3'-3'ellow ; head, antenna, pro- and mesothorax, scu- 

 tellar region and anterior portion of pleura beneath, black ; lace, 

 mouth, orbits, annuhis on antenn.ie, collar, teguhB, line before, spot 

 beneath confluent with anterior margin of pleura, spot on disk of 

 raesothorax, apex and sides of scutellura, two oblique lines in front, 

 spot on postscutellum, pleura beneath, four anterior coxse and 

 trochanters, and posterior tarsi except base and apex, white; wings 

 hyaline, iridescent, apex faintly dusky ; tips of posterior tibiie 

 dusky, base and apex of their tarsi black. Slender, shining, feebly 

 punctured ; metathorax rounded, without tubercles ; abdomen 

 long, very slender throughout ; areolet very minute, closed. Length 

 4^ lines. 



Cordova. 



25. Mesostenus collaris, n sp. 



Z. Honey -yellow; head, antennae, prothorax, sutures of meso- 

 thorax, spot behind anterior coxae, and space on each side of scu- 

 tellum, black; face, mouth, orbits, annulus on antenna?, margins 

 of prothorax, tegulae, spot beneath, two dots in front of scutellum, 

 spot on postscutellum, metathoracic tubercles, four anterior coxae 

 and trochanters, and second, third and fourth joints of posterior 

 tarsi, white; wings h3^aline, iridescent; posterior tibife dusky 

 toward tips, basal and apical joints of their tarsi fuscous. Small, 

 slender, opaque; metathorax coarsely reticulated, tubercles short, 

 robust and obtuse; areolet minute, open. Length 3 lines. 



Orizaba. 



26. Mesostenus arctus, n. sp. 



%. Black; clj'peus, spot on mandibles, palpi, four anterior 

 coxae and trochanters and posterior tarsi except base and apex, 

 white; four anterior legs pale honey-yellow; wings hyaline, iri- 

 descent, duvky at tips. Small and very slender, especially the 

 antennae, legs, and base of abdomen ; mesothorax densely and 

 coursel\' granulated ; metathorax coarsely reticulated, witliout 

 prominent tubercles; areolet quadrate, closed; first abdominal 

 segment narrow, of uniform width, with a prominent tubercle on 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



each side between mitklle and apex, apical segments dilated and 

 subcompressed. Length 3^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



Subgenus Christolia, Ernlle. 



The form of the species belonging to this subgenus is robust, 

 especiall}- that of the head and thorax, the latter is gibbous, the 

 metathorax short and broad, with the tubercles short and blunt, 

 the legs more robust than usual, and the abdomen short, and broad 

 ovate in 9 ; areolet minute and open. 



Body black, abdomen silvery-sericeous at apex. 



Anterior wings with a median fuliginous subquadrate mark and apex 



dusky ; tibial spurs black 1. nubecula. 



Anterior wings hyaline, dusky only at apex ; tibial spurs white. 



2. calcarata. 

 Bod}^ black, marked with white or yellowish. 

 Posterior femora black above. 



Metathorax with two round yellow spots covering tubercles ; poste- 

 rior tarsi black beyond basal joint 3. zapotecus. 



Metathorax with two large subquadrate yellowish marks on jiosterior 



foce ; posterior tarsi entirely yellow 4. mirabilis. 



Posterior femora yellow, black only at extreme base and apex. 



5. mirandus. 



Body black, abdomen and legs red 6. abdominalis. 



1. Christolia nubecula, n. sp. 



9. Black, opaque, subsericeous, third and following segments 

 of abdomen strongly silvery-sericeous; annulus on antennae above 

 and apical segment of abdomen above, wiiite; wings hyaline, apex 

 dusk}', an irregular brown spot on middle of anterior wing, ner- 

 vures and stigma black; anterior tibiae and tarsi pale brown. An- 

 tennae nearly as long as bod^'^, apex robust; thorax strongly gib- 

 bous ; mesothorax with some longitudinal wrinkles on each side 

 of middle ; scutellum small, convex, smooth and polished, sides 

 strongly carinate ; metathorax large, broad, depressed behind, 

 reticulated, sides transversely striated, on each side above a short, 

 very obtuse tubercle, stigmata large and ovate; legs slender, pos- 

 terior pair unusually long; wings long, narrow, areolet small, 

 quadrate, outer nervure obsolete ; abdomen short, strongly arcuate, 

 first segment slender, nearly as long as all the remaining segments, 

 slightly and squarely dilated at tip, smooth and polished, stig- 

 inatic tubercles prominent and placed between middle and apex; 




16t PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



remaining segments togctlier broad, fusiform, smooth, shining; 

 ovipositor slender, longer than first segment, sheaths slightly 

 thickened at tips. Length 5^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



& Christolia calcarata, n. sp. 



% . LJlack, opaque, subsericeous ; face, anterior orbits, cl,ypeus, 

 metathoracic tubercles and tibial spurs, white ; wings hyaline, 

 faintly dusky at tips, nervures and stigma Ijlack ; anterior legs 

 palish in front; apex of first obscurel}^ and the fifth and following 

 abdomiual segments margined posteriorly with yellowish. Form 

 same as that of nubecula, with more slender abdomen ; antennae 

 nearly as long as body, filiform, slenderer at tips : raesothorax finely 

 and densely punctured; scutellum convex, shining, sides subcari- 

 nate, lateral region longitudinally striated ; metathorax subex- 

 cavate behind, reticulated, the lateral tubercles short and very 

 obtuse; areolet as in nubecula; abdomen smooth and polished, 

 strongly clavate, first segment long and slender, dilated at apex, 

 stigmatic tubercles prominent. Length 4-5 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. Gl.) 



3. Cliristolia zapotecus, n. sp. 



9. Black ; sides and middle of face, most of clypeus, labrnm, 

 anterior orbits, cheeks, annulus on antenna} interrupted beneath, 

 tegulte, spot on each side in front, spot beneath, two short discal 

 lines on mesothorax, scutellum, two obli(:[ue lines in front, s[)ot on 

 postscutellum, spot behind base of wings, two roinid spots on 

 metathorax covering tubercles, round spot on each flank, an ob- 

 lique mark on each side of pleura hooked posteriorly, coxic, sjiot 

 on middle of first abdomiual segment and apical margin of all the 

 segments, white or 3'ellowish ; wings hyaline, dusky at ajiical mar- 

 gins, nervures black ; legs strongly 3'ellowish, posterior coxre at 

 base beneath, and short line or spot at apex above, their trochan- 

 ters, all the femora above, apex of posterior i)air and of all the 

 tarsi, black. Form very robust, compact, opaque; mesothorax 

 densel}'' sculptured; metathorax broad, sloping rapidly beiiind, 

 reticulated, tubercles ver3'^ short, robust and blunt; legs long and 

 robust ; abdomen smootii ; areolet small, subquadrate, open. 

 Length 6 lines. 



%. Dififers from 9 as follows: Antenna? entirely black; poste- 

 rior coxcXJ beneath and apex above, their trochanters, femora, apex 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



of tibiffi and tarsi entirely, black, four anterior femora entirely 

 yellow ; abdomen short and very slender, the first segment entirely 

 yellow except subapical black spot. Length 5 lines. 

 Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 22). 



4. Christolia mirabilis, n. sp. 



9. Head, antennre and thorax marked as in znpotecux, all the 

 markings except annulus on antennae which is pure white, lemon- 

 yellow ; pleura j^ellow beneath; metathorax with two large sub- 

 quadrate lemon-yellow marks on posterior face covering tubercles, 

 as well as a large ovate spot on flanks ; legs lemon yellow, a broad 

 stripe on outside of posterior coxre, trochanters above, all the 

 femora above, four anterior tibite except tips, and their tarsi, and 

 haaal half of posterior tibia?, black; abdomen black, narrow late- 

 ral and broad apical margins of three basal segments, and the re- 

 maining segments except a narrow transverse black band at base, 

 lemon-jellow ; wings hyaline, nervures black. Form same as that 

 of zapotecu!< ; meso- and metathorax coarsely rugose and more or 

 less reticulated, the latter truncate behind, with short robust, ob- 

 tuse tubercles ; abdomen smooth and polished ; ai-eolet open. 

 Length 6 lines. 



%. Antennte entirel}^ black; wings dusky at apex; four an- 

 terior femora entirely yellow, posterior pair black above and at 

 base and apex beneath, their tibine entirely black; otherwise as iu 

 9. Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



5. Christolia mirandus, n. sp. 



9. Color and mnrkings as in mirahilis^ except as fullows : 

 metathorax has a triangular yellow spot on each side at base ; the 

 pleuraand also posterior coxae are marked as in zapotecu.s ; the 

 legs are luteous-yellow, apex of four posterior trochanters, poste- 

 rior knees, apex of their tibiiB and tarsal tips, black. Form more 

 robust, abdomen shorter and broader, being almost oval beyond 

 first segment ; metathorax obliquely truncate behind, the tuber- 

 cles very short and blunt. Length 5| lines. 



Orizaba. 



6. Christolia abdominalis, n. sp. 



9 Head, antennae, and thorax black; orbits interrupted on 



each side of insertion of antennoe and behind summit of eyes, 

 clypeus, broad annulus on antennae, line on collar, teguUe, spot 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in front, another beneath, spot behind wings, scutellnm, minute 

 line on postscutellura, two spots on pleura, the posterior one minute, 

 two spots on metathorax covering tubercles, and a spot on flanks, 

 white or j-ellowish-white ; legs and abdomen hone3^-3'ellow ; four 

 anterior coxre and posterior tarsi j'ellow ; wings hyaline, apex 

 faintly dusky, nervures black, basal segment of abdomen tinged 

 with fuscous, with a minute pale dot on each apical corner. Form 

 same as that of zapotecus ; thorax densely and rather coarsely 

 sculptured ; metathoracic tubercles short and transverse ; abdomen 

 smooth and shining. Length T lines. 

 Orizaba. 



Genus CRYPTANUEA, Brulld. 



In this genus the form is slender; reuions of mesothorax 

 scarcely elevated ; metathorax without spines or tubercles ; legs 

 slender, the posterior pair very long; abdomen slender, the first 

 segment long, straight, slightly and very gradually dilated at tip ; 

 areolet of anterior wings small, quadrate or subquadrate, closed. 



The species ma}'^ be separated as follows : 

 Abdomen black, with one or more white spots at apex ; legs red. most of 



posterior tarsi white 1 . Sumichrastii. 



Abdomen black, with narrow white bands ; pleura, metathorax, iuul Icus 



red 2. delecta. 



Abdomen red, the first, and base of second and third segments black. 



3. acolhua. 

 Abdomen yrlloAv, banded witli black ; anterior wings with a fnlii;inous spot 



at tip of marginal cell 4. pachymenae. 



1. Cryptanura Sumichrasti, n. sp. 



9. lilack, sericeous ; labrum, extreme base of mandibles, palpi, 

 broad annulus on anteniuc (spotted beneath with black), s^)ot on 

 scntellura, postscutellum, posterior tarsi except base and apex, 

 one or more spots on apex of abdomen above, and most of venter, 

 white; legs, including four posterior coxa?, and more or less of 

 the first abdominal seijment, briirht rufo-forruijinous ; anterior 

 cox;e white in front, black on the sides and behind; anterior logs 

 and intermediate tibiie and tarsi somewhat luteous ; posterior 

 tibiie except base, base of their tarsi and tips of all the tarsi, 

 blackish ; wings faintly dusky. Mesothorax finely and closely 

 punctured, the dorsal lines well Impressed; scutellum triangular, 

 deeply excavated at base, wiili tlie sides acutely carinate, tiie 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 16Y 



lateral region longitudinally, somewhat obliquely striated ; meta- 

 thorax clothed with a silvery pubescence, more dense on sides and 

 apex, basal tliird almost smooth, bounded posteriorly by a sharp 

 transverse carina which is angulate on the disk, the remaining 

 portion transversel}', irregularlj- striated, subtruncate behind with 

 a subarcuate carina on each side on the verge of the truncation ; 

 luetathoracic stigmatse large and ovate ; wing nervures black, the 

 areolet, about the buUse and at tip of marginal cell dusky ; areolet 

 subquadrate, closed ; legs long and slender, claws sim})le ; abdo- 

 men bej'ond first segment subfusiform, shining, convex, tip slightly 

 compressed ; first segment two-thircls as long as the remainder of 

 the abdomen, slender at base, very slightly broader at apex ; ovi- 

 positor at least half the length of the abdomen. Length 6-1^ 

 lines. 



%. Face, anterior legs in front, intermediate coxre and tro- 

 chanters beneath, generally a spot on each side of pleura beneath, 

 and a short line beneath teguhv, white ; posterior femora more or 

 less black at apex, their tibire generally pale at base ; otherwise 

 same coloration as 9, with the form much more slender, especially 

 of antennae, legs, and abdomen. Length 5-6 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 1.) Common. 



2. Cryptanura delecta, n. sp. 



5. Black; face, mouth, cheeks, anterior orbits, annulus on 

 antennae, collar, tegulse, line before, spot beneath, scutellum, dot 

 on postscutellum, posterior tibiae except base and apex, and apical 

 margins of abdominal segments, white or whitish ; pleura, meta- 

 thorax except base above, legs and base of first abdominal seg- 

 ment, ferruginous ; wings h3'aline, nervures black ; tips of posterior 

 femora, their tibiae and base and apex of their tarsi, black. Form 

 elongate, slender; mesothorax finely sculptured; metathorax 

 transversely striated, smooth at base, the posterior transverse 

 carina obsolete centrally and prominent laterally ; abdomen nar- 

 row, smooth, and shining, with long, slender first segment which 

 is tuberculate on each side behind middle. Length 7^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 59.) 



3. Cryptanura acolhua, n. sp. 



?. Black; labrura and palpi 3'ellow; mandibles piceous ; an 

 incomplete white annulus on middle of antennae, and a white dot 

 on tip of scutellum; wings as in SumicJi?'asli ; four anterior legs 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



yellow, their femora behind, all the coxre and trochanters, and 

 base of posterior femora, fulvous, remainder of their tibire j'ellow ; 

 abdomen fulvous, shining, paler at tip and beneath, first segment 

 except base and spot on extreme tip above, base of second seg- 

 ment and basal margin of the third, black. Form same as that 

 of Sumichy-asti, with the sculpture much the same, the dorsal 

 lines of mesothorax arc, however, scarcely impressed ; the basal 

 segment of abdomen is polished, while the remaining segments, 

 although shining, are covered with a verj' short, subsericeous pile. 

 Length 7 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 5.) 



4. Cryptanura ? pacliymenae, n. sp. 



% 9 . Bright yellow ; spot on vertex covering ocelli and occiput, 

 antennae except base, three stripes on mesothorax middle one 

 broad, lateral ones slender and abbreviated anteriorly confluent 

 behind, spot on tip of scutellum, broad band at base of meta- 

 thorax, short stripe at apex, spot and dot beneath wings, line be- 

 hind anterior coxa?, base beneath and spot above at apex of pos- 

 terior coxje, posterior tibise except base, and their tarsi, posterior 

 trochanters above and base and apex of their femora above in % , 

 band on middle of second and third abdominal segments, and 

 basal margins of remaining segments indicated only ly dusky 

 stains in &, black; Avings hyaline, with a fuliginous spot at tip of 

 marginal cell. Form slender; eyes large; head flat; mesothorax 

 closely punctured, regions rather prominent; scutellum broad, 

 convex ; metathorax rounded above, witii a transverse carina near 

 base, posterior face subtruncate and transversely striated ; areolet 

 moderate, 5-angular; abdomen very slender at base, smooth and 

 shining, clavate. Length 7 lines. 



Vai\ 9. The black color predominates by reason of the mark- 

 ings being more largely developed ; stripes on mesothorax broad 

 and conlluent; pleura entirely black, except an irregular 3'ellow 

 mark on each side ; metathorax black, except the flanks and an 

 arcuated line on posterior face ; posterior femora black on their 

 basal half above, and tlie bands on abdomen broader and more 

 distinct ; wings tinged with yellowish. Lengtli 7^ lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. (Sumichrast, No. 54.) Parasitic 

 on a species of Pachymenes probably ohscurus Smith. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Genus HEMITELES, Grav. 



Abdomen black, banded with white. 

 Thorax black, marked with white. 

 Form short, robust; metathorax rather abruptly truncate behind, tuber- 

 cles short and blunt ; first abdominal segment white, with a black 



spot before apex 1. lascivus. 



Form elongate, slender ; metathorax gradually sloping behind, tuber- 

 cles short and blunt ; first abdominal segment black or red, white at 



apex 2. patruelis. 



Form long, linear and very slender ; metathorax without tubercles ; 



hind coxse red 3. exilis. 



Form slender ; metathorax without tubercles ; abdomen clavate ; hind 



coxae white, black above 4. rarus. 



Thorax ferruginous, mesothorax black above ; abdomen black, with a 

 white spot at apex and a pale band at base of third segment. 



5. irritatus. 



Thorax entirely ferruginous ; wings hyaline 6. ingenuus. 



Thorax entirely ferruginous ; wings hyaline, with two fuscous bands. 



7. adjicialis. 

 Abdomen white, banded with black ; mesothorax black, with two white 



stripes 8. adultus. 



Abdomen white and honey -yellow, with one or more black bands. 

 Metathorax without tubercles. 



Mesothorax with two short white lines ; metathorax with two oval 



white spots behind 9. bimaculatus. 



Mesothorax with a central white spot ; metathorax white, black only at 



base 10. centralis, 



Metathorax with tubercles or spines. 

 Tubercles short, broad and blunt ; abdomen honey-yellow, whitish at 

 apex of first and second segments, and a blackish band at base of 



third segment 11. junctus. 



Tubercles rather long and subacute; abdomen ferruginous, first seg- 

 ment black, base and apex white, also two apical segments, base of 



second black 12. scitulus. 



Abdomen ferruginous and white. 

 Head and thorax black ; collar, spot on scutellum and on apex of abdo- 

 men white ; metathorax entirely black 13. monilis. 



Head and thorax black, marked Avitli white ; metathorax ferruginous, 

 with two white spots behind ; apex of first, narrow apical margin of 

 second and apex of two apical segments white ; apex of wings dusky. 



14. admirabilis. 

 Head and thorax black marked with white ; metathorax black, the fianks 

 and two spots behind white; apex and spot on each side at tip of 

 second segment white, base of first and second segments dusky. 



15. sulsus. 

 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Abdomen boney -yellow. 



Metatliorax honey-j'cllow, vc\\\\ black transverse subbasal carina, and 



with two prominent white tubercles 10. transilis. 



Metathorax entirely honey -yellow 17. servilis. 



1. Hemiteles lascivus, n. sp. 



9. Black ; face, clypeus, palpi, orbits, checks, annulus on an- 

 tennae, collar, tegulfe, spot before, clot beneath, two short discal 

 lines on niesothorax, scutelliira, dot on postscutellum, spot be- 

 hind base of wings, oblique mark on side of pleura hooked be- 

 neath, spot on flanks of metathorax, two spots at tip covering 

 tubercles, coxae and trochanters, posterior tarsi, base of first ab- 

 dominal segment, apical margin of all the segments, broad on 

 second, narrow and subinterrupted on remainder, all white or 

 3'ellowish-white ; wings hyaline, apex faintly dusky; legs pale 

 honey-yellow, irregular mark on posterior coxjb and tips of all 

 the tarsi, black. Robust, opaque, finely' and densely sculptured; 

 metathorax short, broad, truncate behind, the tubei'cles longitu- 

 dinal, not prominent; legs robust; abdomen shining, ovate be- 

 yond first segment which is broadlj' dilated at apex; areolet 5- 

 angular, outer nervure hyaline. Length 3^ lines. 

 Orizaba. 



2. Hemiteles patruelis, n. sp. 



9. Black; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, broad 

 annulus on flagcllum interj-upted beneath, collar, tegula*, line be- 

 fore, spot beneath, two short subtriangular discal lines on meso- 

 thorax, scutellum, spot or line on postscutellum, triangular space 

 behind base of wings, pleura except upper and anterior margins, 

 sometimes only a lateral spot, flanks of metathorax, two triangu- 

 lar spots covering tubercles, four anterior coxae and trochnnters, 

 most of posterior tarsi and broad apical margins of abdominal 

 segments, all white ; wings hyaline, iridescent, faintly dusk^^ at 

 apex ; legs pale honey-yellow, spot on posterior eoxa^, the four 

 anterior femora above, their tibiae and tarsi more or less, posterior 

 trochanters, extreme apex of their femora, and base, and apex of 

 their tarsi, blackish, posterior coxae within and annulus on base 

 of their tibiae whitish, and in one specimen the posterior coxae 

 are white with the base beneath and a lateral stripe black ; some- 

 times the basal segments of the abdomen have a reddish tinge 

 before the white bands. Opaque; mctathoracic tubercles very 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADEI.Pin A. 171 



short atui blunt ; areolet 5-angular, outer iiervure hyaline. Length 

 3-3| lines. 

 Orizaba. 



3. Hemiteles exilis, n. sp. 



%. Black; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, collar, teguloe, dot be- 

 neath, two abbreviated discal lines on mesothorax, scutellum, 

 spot behind, space behind base of wings, two spots at apex of 

 metathorax, oblique mark on side of pleura confluent beneath with 

 a mark which is acutely notched anteriorly, four anterior coxae 

 and trochanters, most of posterior tarsi and broad apical margins 

 of abdominal segments, that on basal segment dilated anteriorly 

 on each side as far as the tubercles, white ; wings hyaline, iri- 

 descent, apex dusky ; flanks of metathorax and most of legs 

 hone}' -yellow; four anterior tarsi and posterior tibioe behind 

 dusky, apex of posterior tibioe and base and apex of their tarsi, 

 black. Elongate, slender; metathorax finely sculptured, round, 

 without tubercles or spines, and only one transverse carina at 

 base ; areolet 5-angular, open ; abdomen flattened, long, narrow, 

 opaque. Length 4 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



4. Hemiteles rarus, n. sp. 



% . Black ; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, collar, 

 prothorax except two lateral black dots, teguhe, dot beneath, two 

 dots on disk of mesothorax, large round spot on scutellum, space 

 behind base of wings, pleura except large space beneath wings, 

 apex of metathorax divided centrall}' by a black line, four an- 

 terior legs, posterior coxae at apex and beneath, most of posterior 

 tarsi and apical margin of abdominal segments, all white; pos- 

 terior femora honej^-yellow, their base and apex, their tibiae ex- 

 cept narrow pale annulus near base, and base and apex of their 

 tarsi, black; four anterior femora faintly dusky above; wino-s 

 hyaline, iridescent, nervures black. Slender; hind legs very 

 long; abdomen clavate, first segment slender, with a tubercle on 

 each side behind middle; areolet 5-angular, open; metathorax 

 rounded, with a single transverse carina above the middle. 

 Length 3 lines. 



Orizaba. 



5. Hemiteles irritatus, n. sp. 



%. Head, antennae, mesothorax and abdomen black; face, 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



mouth, broad orbits, cheeks, scape beneath, broad annulns near 

 apex of flagellum, most of posterior tarsi and spot at apex of 

 abdomen, white ; remainder of thorax, most of legs, first abdomi- 

 nal segment except apex and band at base of tliird segment 

 broadly dilated laterally, pale hone3'-yellow ; scntelliim above, 

 basal suture of metatliorax, posterior tibise except base, and base 

 and apex of their tarsi, black or blackish ; mesotliorax with two 

 pale spots on disk; wings hyaline, nervures black; four anterior 

 legs pale yellow, their coxaj whitish. Shining ; head broad, sub- 

 buccate; antennas long; thorax robust; metathorax opaque, with 

 two transverse carinae, the posterior one interrupted mediallv, no 

 tubercles or spines ; wings ample, areolet 5-angular, outer nervure 

 h3aline; abdomen long, very slender at base, the first segment 

 squarely dilated at tip. Length 5| lines. 

 Orizaba. 



6. Hemiteles ingenuus, n. sp. 



9. Head, antenn;\i and abdomen black; thorax and legs fer- 

 ruginous ; anterior orbits, clypeus, spot on clieeks, broad annulus 

 on antennae interrupted beneath, collar, dot beneath tegulae, spot 

 behind base of wings, metathoracio tubercles, anterior coxae, base 

 of posterior tibiae, most of their tarsi, apical margins of first six 

 abdominal segments interrupted mediall}' on fifth and sixth, and 

 the seventh segment entirely, white ; base of trochanters, apex 

 of posterior femora, their tiliiae, and base and apex of their tarsi 

 black; wings hyaline, faintly dusk}'^ at apex. Opaque; meta- 

 thorax finely rugulose, tul)ercles prominent and subacute ; ab- 

 domen long and slender, shining at tip ; areolet as usual. Length 

 4:^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



7. Hemiteles adjicialis, n. sp. 



9. Head, thorax, and legs ferruginous; abdomen and antennae 

 black; oi'bits, spot on clypeus, broad annuhis on antennae inter- 

 rupted beneath, collar, spot beneath teguhi?, dot in front, spot on 

 scutellum, spot behind base of wings, metathoracio tubercles,, dot 

 on each flank, dot on posterior margin of pleura, four anterior 

 coxa? above, spot on posterior pair above, base of posterior tibiif, 

 their tarsi, broad apical margins of first, second, and third abdomi- 

 nal segments, and the two apical segments entirel3^, white ; tcgulre 

 black, with a white spot anteriorly; scape reddish; posterior 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ITS 



tibiae, and base and apex of their tarsi, blackish; wings hyaline, 

 with the apex broadl}', and a cloud across middle before stigma, 

 fuscous. Opaque ; thorax densely and minutel}' sculptured ; meta- 

 thoracic tubercles prominent and obtuse ; areolet 5-angular, outer 

 uervure hyaline; abdomen shining. Length Splines. 

 Orizaba. A very beautiful species. 



8. Hemiteles adultus, n. sp. 



?. White or 3'ellowish-white ; thorax strongly tinged with 

 yellowish ; legs pale honey-yellow ; antennae except broad annulus, 

 mark on middle of vertex cov^ering ocelli and extending on occiput, 

 line on collar above, mesothorax (except a line on each lateral 

 lobe, hooked anteriorly and two small dots on each side of middle 

 lobe), base of scutellum and lateral regions, three narrow stripes 

 on metathorax all connected at base by a broad band which in- 

 closes a pale spot on each side, tips of tarsi, spot near apex of first 

 abdominal segment, a broad band near base of second segment, a 

 rather broad band at base of third, and narrow basal margins of 

 remaining segments, black ; coxte yellowish ; wings dusky hyaline. 

 Opaque ; metathorax rugulose, obliquely truncate behind, the 

 tubercles prominent, obtuse; abdomen shining. Length 4|^ lines- 

 Orizaba. 



9. Hemiteles bimaculatus, n. sp. 



% 9. Black; head except spot covering ocelli and connected 

 with mark covering most of occiput, broad annulus on antennae, 

 scape beneath, prothorax except broad posterior margin, tegulse, 

 line before, spot beneath, another above (wanting in % ), two 

 short broad lines on disk of mesothorax, scutellum, postscutellum, 

 space behind base of wings, pleura except black spot beneath pos- 

 terior wings, flanks of metathorax and two ovate spots on posterior 

 face, sometimes much reduced, four anterior coxje and apical half 

 of first three abdominal segments, white ; apex of abdomen and 

 legs pale honey -j-ellow ; basal half of first three segments black, 

 sometimes the apical half of the third segn^ent is hone^'-^'ellow ; 

 posterior tarsi pale, black at base and apex, their trochanters and 

 apex of their tibite dusky in % ; wings hyaline, iridescent. Shin- 

 ing ; metathorax rounded, transversely aciculate above, without 

 tubercles. Length 3^-4 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 124.) Common. 




174 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



10. Hemiteles centralis, n. sp. 



9. Yellowish-white, legs and abdomen tinged with hone^'-^-el- 

 low ; large spot on vertex and occiput, antennre except pure white 

 annulus and scape beneath, mesothorax except quadrate white 

 spot on disk, lateral region of scutellums, broad band at base of 

 metathorax, anterior margin of pleura, tarsal tips, basal half of 

 second abdominal segment and narrow basal margin of three fol- 

 lowing segments, black or fuscous ; wings hj-aline ; four anterior 

 coxa) and trochanters white. Smooth ; head and thorax sub- 

 opaque, abdomen shining ; metathorax without tubercles or spines. 

 Length 3 lines. 



Orizaba. 



11. Hemiteles junctus, n. sp. 



9 . Marked like himaculatus except as follows : no spot above 

 tegulae ; the annulus or antennae interrupted beneath ; the abdo- 

 men honey-yellow, with apex of first and second segments pale, 

 and base of the third rather broadly black. More robust than 

 himaculatus^ especially the antennsfi ; the metathorax has two very 

 short blunt tubercles. Length 3y lines. 



Cordova. 



12. Hemiteles scitulus, n. sp. 



9. Head and thoraxblack, legs honey-j'ellow, abdomen ferrugi- 

 nous ; (antennae wanting) ; face, cl3'peus, orbits, collar, tcgula?, 

 line before, spot beneath, two short discal lines on mesothorax, 

 scutellum, line on postscutellum, space behind base of wings, ob- 

 lique line on each side of pleura, two spots on posterior face of 

 metathorax covering tubercles, spot on each flank, four anterior 

 coxa?, spot on posterior pair above, base and apex of first abdomi- 

 nal segment, and large spot covering two apical segments, all 

 white ; posterior tarsi pale, blackish at tips, wings dusky hyaline ; 

 middle of first abdominal segment and base of second blackish. 

 Opaque; metathorax longitudinall}' rugose, tubercles prominent, 

 obtuse; areolet 5-angular, outer nervure hyaline; abdomcu de- 

 pressed, first segment shining. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



13. Hemiteles monilis, n. sp. 



9 . Head, antennfe and thorax black ; legs and abdomen ferru- 

 ginous; annulus on antennie interrupted beneath, collar, tcgula^ 

 spot on scutellum, metathoracic tubercles and spot at apex of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



abdomen white ; wings subhyaline, witli a dusky spot beneath 

 stigma. Mesothorax shining, with finely impressed lines ; raeta- 

 thorax rounded, densely and finely rugose, tubercles short, suba- 

 cute; areolet 5-angular, outer nervure hyaline; abdomen de- 

 pressed. Length 3f lines. 

 Orizaba. 



14. Hemiteles admirabilis, n. sp. 



9. Head, antennae, pro- and mesothorax, scutellar region and 

 pleura above and anterior margin beneath, black ; remainder of 

 pleura, metathorax, legs, and abdomen honey-yellow or pale fer- 

 ruginous ; orbits, middle of face, clypeus, labrum, spot at base of 

 mandibles, annulus on antennae, collar, tegulte, spot beneath, two 

 discal lines on mesothorax, scutellum, dot behind, sj^ot behind 

 base of wings, spot beneath wings, two spots at apex of meta- 

 thorax, anterior coxae and trochanters, posterior coxae except 

 base and apex, and apical margins of abdominal segments 1, 2, 

 and 7, white; remainder of seventh segment black; base and 

 apex of posterior tarsi fuscous ; wings hyaline, with a fuscous 

 cloud at apex. Opaque ; metathorax without tubercles or spines. 

 Length 4 lines. 



Cordova. 



15. Hemiteles sulsus, n. sp. 



9. Head, antennae, and thorax black; face, mouth, orbits, 

 scape beneath, broad annulus on flagellum, collai*, tegulffi, line 

 before, spot beneath, two short discal lines on mesothorax, scutel- 

 lum, pleura except anterior and posterior margins, spot on flanks 

 of metathorax, two spots at tip covering tubercles, four anterior 

 coxae and trochanters, spot on posterior coxae above, posterior 

 tarsi, apex of first abdominal segment and spot on each apical 

 corner of second, white ; legs and abdomen pale honey-yellow ; 

 four anterior tarsi, tips of posterior pair, base of first and second 

 segments of abdomen more or less, fuscous; wings 113'aline. Slen- 

 der; opaque; metathoracic tubercles very short and blunt; areolet 

 small, 5-angular, open ; base of abdomen slender, beyond which 

 it is oblong-ovate, shining. Length 3^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



16. Hemiteles transilis, n. sp. 



9. Head, antennae and mesothorax black; metathorax, legs 

 and abdomen pale honey-yellow ; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, scape 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



beneath, brond annulus on flagellnm, prothorax except black band 

 above, tegula?, line before, dot beneath, two short diseal lines on 

 niesothorax, scutellum, space behind base of wings, pleura except 

 anterior margin, flanks of metathorax, the tubercles, four anterior 

 coxae, spot on posterior pair above, and two dots on apex of first 

 abdominal segment, white or whitish; metathorax blackish at 

 base ; wings hj-aline ; tarsal tips black. Mesothorax wath w^ell 

 impressed lines ; metathoracic tubercles short and blunt ; areolet 

 as usual. Length 4 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



17. Hemiteles servilis, n. ?p. 



9. Pale honey-3'ellovv ; head, antennne, mesothorax and scutel- 

 lar region black ; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, broad annulus on 

 flagellum, prothorax except black spot above and one on each 

 side, tegulte, line before, spot beneath, two stripes on mesothorax 

 slightly interrupted by the impressed lines, scutellum, spot on 

 postscutellum, spot on pleura, two spots at base of metathorax, 

 the tubercles, and four anterior coxae, white or whitish ; wings 

 hyaline, fainth^ 3'ellowish, nervines pale; sometimes the meso- 

 thorax has a reddish tinge; scape of antenna? reddish. Opaque; 

 mesothorax with well impressed lines ; metathorax with promi- 

 nent transverselv flattened tubercles ; abdomen short ovate bevond 

 first segment, which is smooth and shining; areolet quadrate, 

 outer nervure h^-aline. Length 3-3^ lines. 



Cordova. 



(To be ro7itinued.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



CATALOGUE OF THE RECENT SPECIES OF THE CLASS BRACHIOPODA. 

 BY W. H. DALL, U. S. COAST SURVEY. 



The following catalogue contains all the species known in a 

 recent state uj) to the date of writing. The synonymy does not 

 profess to be complete, but only sufficiently so to indicate the 

 history of each species approximately, with a reference whenever 

 possible to at least one good figure. 



It is probable that some of the species, especially of the genera 

 Lingula and Discinisca^ ma^y be reduced to the rank of s^^nonyms 

 by a careful comparison of types. I have thought it best to leave 

 this work, however, to some one who may have the opportunity of 

 comparing the specimens themselves. I feel confident, also, that 

 the number of species of Kraussina has been exaggerated. With 

 regard to the other groups, they appear to have been sufficiently 

 reduced, and the species here enumerated appear to be well de- 

 fined. Most of them I have been able to examine critically. 



While deprecating the multiplication of specific names on the 

 one hand, on the other the practice, miscalled conservatism, which 

 leads to the confounding of allied but distinct forms, from care- 

 lessness in comparison or the want of material for critical exami- 

 nation, cannot be too strongly condemned. Such a course leads 

 to the destruction of that critical exactness which is the basis of 

 all science, and onh^ furthers the convenience of the careless or 

 indolent investigator, at the sacrifice of accurac}^, and the great 

 increase of labor for the more careful and painstaking student. 



Those who may be led to examine this catalogue carefully will 

 trace the evil eflfect of both courses in the synonymy of many of 

 the species, and, while absolute accuracy seems unattainable, I 

 may be permitted to hope that herein at least a step has been 

 made in that direction. Great care has been taken with the locali- 

 ties attributed to the several species, and they are believed to be, 

 in the main, correct. 



I am under obligations to Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., for assist- 

 ance in completing the synonymy. 




173 proceedings of the academy of 



Class BRACHIOPODA, Cuvier. 

 Order ARTHROPOMATA, Owen. 



Artliropomata^ Owen, Encyc. Brit. Ed. viii. xv. art. Mollusca, p. 



336. 1858. 

 B?-achiopoda, values articulees, Deshayes, An. s. Vert. Ed. ii. vii. 



p. 309. 1836. 

 Palliohranchiata, testa cardine instructa^Ysm der HcEven, Handb. 



der Zool. p. 692. 1850. 

 Apijgia, Bronn. Klass. Ordn. Thierr. iii. 1st abth. p. 301. 1862. 

 Articulata^ Huxley, Lect. Class. 1864. Mtr. Class. An. p. 116. 



1869. 



Family TEREBRATULID^E, Dall. 



Ter^ebratulidse, Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. iii. No. 1, p. 3. Ma}', 

 1871. 



Subfamily TEREBRATULIN^, Dall. 



Terebratulinse, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 101. 1870. 



Genus TEREBRATTJLA, Auct. ex Llhwyd. 



Terebratula, Llhwyd, Lith. Brit. Ichn. 1699. Lam. Prod. 1799- 

 Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 101. 1870. 

 Type Terebratula perovalis^ Sby. Lam. 



1. Terebratula cubensis, Pourtales. 



T. cubensis, Pourt. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. i. No. 7. p. 109* 



1867. Dall, /oc.ciY. iii. No. 1, p. 3, pi. i. f. 2, 8-16. 1871' 



T. vitrea^ var. Davidson, Mon. It. Tert. Brach. i. p. 9. 1870. 



(Not of Born.) 



Cuba, Florida reefs. 



2. Terebratula Davidsoni, A. Adams. 



T. Davidsoni, A. Ad. P. Z. S. p. 314, pi. xix. f. 30. 1867. 

 T. minor Dav. P. Z. S. p. 302, pi. xxx. figs. 10-12. 1871. 



Japan. 



3. Terebratula minor, Phil. & Suess. 



T. vitrea, var. minor, Phil. Moll. Sic. i. 1836. 



T. affinis, Calcara. 1845. 



T. minor, Dav. An. Mag. Nat. p. 35. 1861. Dall. loc. cit. 



vi. p. 104. 1870. 



Meditei'ranean. 



4. Terebratula sph.eroidea, Philippi. 



T. spheeroidea, Phil. Dav. P. Z. S. p. 302. 1871. 



Coast of Portugal. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



5. Terebratula uva, Broderip. 



T. uua, Bi-od. P. Z. S. p. 124, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 353, 

 pi. 70, fig. 53-55, Gray. Cat. B. M. p. 18, Dall, loc. cit. p. 

 104. 1833. 



Gulf of Tehuanlepec, W. Am. 



6. Terebratula vitrea, Born. 



Anomia vitrea, Born. Mus, Yind. p. 119. 1780. Gmel. S* 



N. 3347. 

 Anomia terebratula, Dillwyn, Cat. p. 294. 

 Gryphus vitrea, Meg. v. Muhlf. Berl. Mus. p. 64. 1811. 

 Terebratula vitrea, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 353, pi. 70, figs. 



56-59. Dall, loc. cit. p. 101, figs. 1-2, Dall, Bull. Mus. 



Comp, Zool. iii. pi. 1, f. I.- 



llediterranean. 



Doubtful Species. 



Terebratula transversa, Gld. Proc. B. S. N. H. vii. p. 323. 

 Sept. 1860. 



Japan. 

 Terebratula Malvinse, D'Orb. Yoy. Am. Mer. Y. p. 674, 

 No. 779, ix. pi. 85, f. 27, 29. 



Falkland Islands. 



Genus TEREBRATULINA, D'Orbigny. 



Terebratulina, D'Orb. Comptes Rendus, xxv. p. 268. 1847. 

 Agulhasia? King, An. Mag. N. H. Ser. iv. vii. p. 109. 1871. 



1. Terebratulina cailleti, Crosse. 



T. cailleti, Crosse, Journ. de Conchyl. p. 27, pi. i. figs. 1-3. 



1865. Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. iii. i. p. 10. 1871. 

 ? T. 3Iichellotina, Dav. Mon. It. Tert. Brach. i.p. 14. 1870. 



(Fossil.) 



Florida, Tortugas, West Indies. 



2. Terebratulina cancellata, Koch. 



T. cancellata, Koch, in Kust. Conch}^. Cab. v. vii. i. pi. 2G, 

 figs. 11-13. Sby. Tiies. Couch, i. p. 358, pi. 71, figs. 93-95. 



West Australia. 



3. Terebratulina caput-serpentis, Lin. 



Anomia caput-serpentis, Lin. Syst. Nat. Ed. xii. 1 153. 1767. 

 Terebratulina caput-serpentis, D'Orb. Ann. Sci. Xat. viii. 



67, pi. vii. f. 7, 8, 17. 1848. (Type.) 

 T. cornea, D'Orb. 1848. 1. c. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Anomia puhei^cens^ Lin. S. N, 1. c. 



T. 2}ube,scens, Retz, N. Gen. 15. 1788. 



Terebr'alula capuf-serjyentis, Sby. Tlies. i. p. 343, pi. 08, figs. 



1-4; pi. 72, fig. 116. 

 T. auriia, Fleming, Phil. Zool. 

 T. costata, Lowe, Zool. Journ. 1825. 

 T. striata, Leach, Brit. Moll. 1852. 

 T. Gervillei, S. Wood, An. Mag. Nat. Hist. v. p. 253. 

 T. marginata, Risso, Evvr. Mer. 1S2G. 

 T. quadrata, Risso, 1. c. 



Anomia retusa, Linn, Syst. Nat. xii. p. 1151. 17G7. 

 Delthyris sj)atula, Menke, Syn. Ed. 2, 96, etc. etc. 



3Iediterranean and North European Seas. 



4. Terebratulina Davidsoni, King. 



Agulhasia Davidsoni, King, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. 4th ser. 

 vii. p. Ill, Feb. 1871, pi. xi. figs. 1-8 (?test, jun.) 



Agulhas Bank, South Africa. 



5. Terebratulina Japonica, Sby. 



2\ Japonica, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 344, pi. G6, figs. 7-8. 



1847. 

 T. ahyssicola, Ad. & Rve. Moll. Samarang, p. 72, pi. xxi. 



fig. 5. 1850. 

 T. Gumingi, Davidson, P. Z. S. p. 79, pi. xiv. figs. 17-19. 



1852. 

 T. angusta, Ad. & Rve. Toy. Sam. p. 7 1, pi. 21, fig. 2. 1850. 

 T. caput-sei'pentis, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 302. 1871. (not Linne.) 



Gulf of Korea ; China Seas ; Japan. 



6. Terebratulina radiata, Rve. 



T. radiata, Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. iii. fig. 7, a, h. 1861. 



Gulf of Korea. 



7. Terebratulina septentrionalis, Contliouy. 



T. septentrionalis, Couthouy, Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist. Journ. 

 vol. ii. p. 55. 1838. Sby. Thes. i. p. 344, pi. 68, figs. 7-8. 

 Binney's, Gould's Inv. Mass. p. 208. 1869. 



Northeast Coast of America. 



8. Terebratulina unguicula, Carpenter. 



Terebratula unguicida, Cpr. P. Z. S. Feb. 14, 1805, p. 201, 

 figs. 1-4. Cooper, Geogr. Cat. Cal. Moll. p. 3. 

 Northicest Coast of America from the Aleutian Islands 



to San Diego, Cal. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Genus WALDHEIMIA, King. 



Waldheimia, King, Perm. Foss. p. 81, 1850, and the majority of 



authors. 

 3Iacandrevia, King, Proc. Dubl. Un. Zool. Bot. As. p. 201. 1859. 

 Eudesia^ King, Perm. Foss. p. 144. 1850. 

 Gwynia? King, Proc. Dubl. Un. Zool. Bot. As. i. p. 258. 1859 



(testa junior). 



1. Waldheimia cranium, Miiller, 



Anomia cranium^ Gmelin, S. N". 3347. 

 Anomia terebratula, Lin. S. N. 1767. 

 Terehratula cranium, Miiller, Prodr. Zool. Dan. p. 209. 



Rye. Conch. Ic. pi. iii. f. 6. Jeffrey's, Brit. Conch, ii. p. 



11, V. p. 163. Rve. Journ. de Conchjl. p. 123. 1861. 

 Tei'ehratida vitrea, Fleming (not Born). 

 Terehratula subvitrea, Leach, teste Rve. 

 Terehratula glabra, Leach, Brit. Moll. p. 359, pi. xiv. f. 3-5. 

 Terehratula plicata, Philipps, Retz. Diss. 1788. 

 Macandrevia cranium, King (t^^pe), Proc. Dubl. Un. As. 

 ? Terehratula (Argiope) capsula, Jeffre^^s. 

 ? Givynia capsula, King, Proc. Dub. Un. As. i. p. 258, f. 1-5. 



1859. Rve. Conch. Ic. pi. x. f. 39 (testa junior), 

 Waldheimia cranium, Gra}', B. M. Cat. p. 58. Dall, Am. 



Journ. Conch, vi. p. 110. 1870. 



Scandinavian and North British Seas. 



2. Waldheimia flavescens, Valenciennes. 



Terehratula Jiavescens,Ysi\.. a.\nu\ Lam. 1819. An.s. Yert. 



V. vii. p. 330. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. i. and ii. a, h. 1861. 

 T. dentata, Val. Lam. An. s. Vert. 1. c. 1836. 

 T australi^, Q. & G. Voy. Astrol. pi. 85, fig. 1-5. 1832. 

 T. recurva, Q. & G. 1. c. 

 Waldheimia australis. King (type), Mon. Perm. Fos. p. 145. 



Davidson, Intr. Brach. p. 65, pi. vi. f. 9, 10. 



Waldheimia Jlavescens,J)a.\\, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 108, 



fig. 5-9. 1870. 



Audralia. 



3. Waldheimia Floridana, Pourtales. 



Waldheimia Floridana, Pourtales, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 

 i. No. 7, p. 127. 1868. Dall, Am. Conch, vi. p. 112. 1870. 

 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. iii. Xo. 1, p. 12, pi. i. f. 3, pi. ii. f. 

 1-3. 1871. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Terehralula septata^ Jeffrey's, Proc. Roy. See. 121, p. 112 



(not Philippi, Moll. Sicilia, ii. p. 68. 1844.) 

 Terehralula neptigera, Jeffreys (not Loven). 

 Terehralula j)elorilana^ var. Jeffreys (not Sequenza). 



Florida Reefs. 



4. Waldheimia Grayi, Davidson. 



Waldheimia Grayii, Davidson, P. Z. S. p. TG, pi. xiv. f. 1-3. 



1852. P. Z. S. p. 304, pi. xxxi. figs. 7-8. 1871. 

 (Not W. Grayi of Cpr. and Gala, authors.) 



Japan. 



5. Waldheimia lenticularis, Deshaycs. 



T. Ienticida7-is, Desh. Mag. Zool. pi. xli. 1841. Sby. Thes. 



i. p. 360, pi. 72, figs. 108-110. 

 Waldheimia lenticularis^ Gray, B. M. Cat. 58. Dall, 1. c. 



p. 112. 



Straits of Fauveau^ New Zealand. 



6. Waldheimia picta, Chemn. 



Anemia picfa, Chemn. xi. f. 2011, 2012. 

 Anomia cranium^ var. Dillwj-n, Cat. p. 295. 

 Anemia ruhra, Wood, Ind. Snppl. pi. ii. fig. 4. 

 T. picta, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 351, pi. 70, figs. 43-44. 

 W. picta, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 59. Dav. P. Z. S. p. 304, pi. 

 xxxi. fig. 10. 1871. Dall, 1. c. p. 112. 



Japan ; Java. 



7. Waldheimia Raphaelis, Dall. 



W. Iiaj)haelis, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. Ill, pi. vii. 

 figs. a-d. 1870. Dav. P. Z. S. p. 302, pi. xxxi. fig. 9. 



Japan. 



8. Waldheimia septiqera, Loven. 



W. septigera, Loven, Lidex Moll. Scand. p. 29. 1846. Dav. 



Ann. Nat. Hist. pi. x. fig. 1. 1855. Dall, Bull. Mus. 



Comp. Zool. iii. pi. i. fig. 4, pi. ii. fig. 9 (not of A. Adams). 

 W. septafa, Jeffreys (not Terchratclla septala, Phil.) 

 W. Floridana, Jeffreys (not Pourtules). 



Scandinavian Seas. 



9. Waldheimia yenosa, Solander. 



Anemia venosa, Solander, MSS. Mus. Banks, Dixon's Yoy. 



p. 355, pi. xi. 1188. Dav. Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. pp. 



81-83. 

 Terehralula glohosa, Lam. An. s. Vert. v. vii. p. 330. 1819 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. ii. fig. 3 a-c, pi. 6, fig. 3 d-e. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Terehratula Californica, Sby. non Koch. 

 Waldheimia dilalata, Lam. Reeve, Conch. Ic. pi. ii. fig. 2, 6, c. 

 Terebratula Gaudichaudi, Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat. 1824. 

 Waldheimia physema, Val. Reeve, Conch. Ic. pi. vi. fig. 



25 a-c. 

 Terebratula eximia, Philippi, teste Reeve. 

 Terebratula Kochii, Kuster, Conchyl. Cab. viii. 

 Terebratula Fontaineana, D'Orbigny, Yoy. Am. Mer. v. p. 



675, No. Y82, ix. pi. 85, fig. 30-31. 

 Waldheimia venosa, Dav. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. xx. pp. 81-3. 



Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 109. 18T0. 



Tierra del Fuego. 

 Subfamily MAGASIN^, Dall. 



Magasinse^ Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 114. 18T0. 

 Magasina, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 85. 1853. 



Genus TEREBRATELLA, D'Orb. 



Terebratella, D'Orb. Pal. Fran. Ter. Cret. iv. p. 110. 1847. 

 Delthijris, Menke, Syn., Ed. ii. p. 96. 1830. (Not Dalman.) 

 Ismenia^ King, Perm. Fos. p. 245. 1850. (Not King, 1. c. 

 p. 81.) 



1. Terebratella Bouchardii, Davidson. 



T. Bouchardii, Dav, P. Z. S. p. 77, pi. xiA\ fig. 4-6. 1852. 

 Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 88. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 123. 



Habitat ? 



2. Terebratella Coreanica, Ad. & Rve. 



Terebratula Coreanica, Ad. & Rve. Yoy. Sam. p. 71, pi. xxi. 



fig. 3. 1850. Rve. Conch. Icon. vii. f. 28, o, b. 

 Terebratula miniata, Gld. Proc. B. S. N. H. p. 323. 1861. 

 Terebratella Coreanica, Bav. An. Mag. N. H. p. 367. 1852. 



Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 207. 1870. Dav. P. Z. S. 



p. 304, pi. xxxi. fig. 4-5. 1871. 



Japanese and Korean Seas. 



3. Terebratella cruenta, Dillwyn. 



Anomia cruenta, Dillw^-n, Syn. p. 295. 1S17. 

 Terebratula rubra, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. pi. Ixviii. f. 9-11. 

 Terebratula zelandica, Desh. Mag. Zool. pi. 42. 1841. 



Dav. An. Nat. Hist. p. 367. 1852. Sby. Thes. i. pi. 72, 



figs. 111-113. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Terehratula sanguinea, Leach, Zool. Misc. pi. 76. Lara. 



An. s. Vert. vi. p. 243. 

 Terebratella cruenta^ Grraj', B. M. Cat. p. 89. Dall. Am. 



Journ. Conch, vi. p. 117. 1870. 



Kew Zealand. 



4. Terebratella dorsata, Gmelin. 



Anoniia striata mageUanica, Chera. Conch. Cab. vi. viii. p. 



101, pi. 78, fig. 710, 711. 

 Terehratula dorsata., Lam. An. s. Vert. v. vii. p. 331. 1819. 



Sb}'. Thes. i. p. 346, pi. 68, f. 15-17. 

 Anomia dorsata., Gmelin, S. N. 3348. 1788. 

 Dellhyris dorsata., Menke, Sj'n. Ed. 2, p. 96. 1830. 

 Terehratula chilensis, Brod. P. Z. S. p. 134. 1836. 

 Terehratula magellanica., Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. v. fig. 



21 a-d. 

 Terehratula hilobata, Blainville, Diet. Sci. Nat. 

 Terehratula pectinala., Blainville, 1. c. 

 Terebratella dorsata, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 116. 



1870. (Type of D'Orb.) 

 Tei'ehratella Soicerbyi, King, Zool. Journ. v. p. 838. 



Coast of Chili to Magellan Straits. 



5. Terebratella frontalis, Middendorf. 



Terehratula frontalis., Midd. Malac. Ross. iii. p. 2. Sib. 



Reise, Bd. 2, p. 241, pi. 18, fig. 9-14. 

 Terehratella frontalis., Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 123. 



1870. 



South Coast of the Ochotsk Sea. 



6. Terebratella Marine, A. Adams. 



T. maris-, A. Adams, An. Mag. N. H. p. 412. 1860. Dav. 

 P. Z. S. p. 305, pi. XXX. f. 16-17. 1871. 



Japan. 



7. Terebratella occidentalis, Dall. 



T. occidentalis., Dall, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. iv. p. 182. 1871. 

 Waldheiinia Grayi, of Cala. authors, not of Davidson. 



Coast of California., near Monterey. 



8. Terebratella pulvinata, Gould. 



Terehratula pulvinata., GUI. I'roc. B. S. X. 11. Dec. 1850. 



Exp. Shells, p. 468, pi. 44, fig. 581. 

 Waldheimia pulvinata., Gld. Otia. Conch, p. 97. 1S62. 



Cooper, Gcogr. Cat. Cal. Moll. p. 3. No. 4. 1867. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Terehratella pulvinata^ Cpr. Check List, W. C. Shells, June, 



1860. Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vl. p. 117. 1870. 

 Terehratula 2nUvilla, Cpr. Rep. Br. As. p. 213. 1856. 



Orange Harbor, Tierra del Fuego. 



9. Terebratella rubiginosa, Dall. 



Terehratella ? Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 122, 



pi. 6, fig. 4. 1870. 

 Terehratella rubiginosa, Dall, loc. cit. vii. p. 65. 1871. 



" Cape of Good Hope:' (?) 



10. Terebratella rubicunda, Solancler. 



Anomia rubicunda, Sol. MSS. Mus. Banks. 



Terebrafula rubicunda, Donovan, Nat. Rep. pi. 56, fig. 2-4. 



Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 351, pi. 70, figs. 45-47. Dav. An. 



Nat. Hist. p. 367. 1852. 

 Terebratella rubicunda, Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. vii. fig. 27 



a-b. Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 117. 1870. 

 Waltonia Valenciennesii, Dav. (fry) teste Wood ward. 



Neio Zealand. 



11. Terebratella Spitzbergensis, Davidson. 



T. Spitzbergensis, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 78. 1852. Rve. Conch. 



Icon. pi. vii. fig. 24. Dav. P. Z. S. p. 305, pi. xxx. figs. 13- 



14. 1871. 

 T. caput-serpentis, Hisinger (not Linnd). 1837. 

 Magasella Spitzbergensis, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 137. 



1870. 

 Arctid Seas ; both shores of Northern Atlantic; Japan. 



12. Terebratella transversa, Sowerby. 



Terehratula transversa, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 261, pi. 72, 



figs. 114-115. 1846. Dall, A. J. C. vii. p. 64. 

 Terehratula caurina, Gld. Proc. B. S. N. H. iii. 1850. Ex- 



ped. Shells, p. 468, pi. 44, fig. 582. 

 Terebratella caurina, Gld. Otia Conch, p. 97. 1862. Cpr. 



Supl. Rep. Br. As. p. 636. 1864. Dall. Am. Journ. 



Conch, vi. p. 119, pi. 6, figs. 1-3. 1870. 

 T. canrena, Cpr. Rep. Br. As. p. 298. 1856. 



Aleutian Islands to Oregon, W. C. N. Am. 



Doubtful Species. 

 Terebratella Labradorensis, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 362, pi. 



71, figs. 89-90. 



Labrador ? ? 

 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Subgenus Laqueus, Dall. 



Laqueus, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 123. 1870. 



1. Laqueus Californica, Koch. 



Terehralula Californica, Koch, Kuster, Xov. Ed. Mart. 



viii. pi. 26, figs. 21-23. Sby. Thes. Con. i. p. 352, pi. 



TO, figs. 50-52. 

 Waldheimia Californica, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 60, No. 8. 



Cpr. Suppl. Rep. Br. As. p. 568 and 636, Cp. Geog. Cat. p. 3. 

 Laqueus Calif ornicus, Dall, 1. c. p. 123,. pi. 7, fig./, pi. 



8, figs. 9-10. 1870. Davidson, P. Z.S. p. 306. 1871. 

 Coast of Sta. Barbara Co., California 



2. Laqueus rubella, Sby. 



Terehralula rubella, Sby. Thes, Conch, i. p. 350, pi. 69, figs 



40-42. 1846. 

 Laqueus suffusus, N". S.? Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 125, 



pi. 7, figs, y, 7i, s. 1870. 

 Waldheimia cranium, A. Ad. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. xi. ser. 



iii. 1863. (Non Miiller.) 

 Terehratella rubella. Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 90. 

 Laqueus rubella, Davidson, P. Z. S. p. 306, pi. xxx. figs. 



18-22. 1871. 



Japan. 

 Genus MEGEELIA, King. 



Megerlia, King, Perm. Fos. pp. 81, 145. 1850. 



Ilegerlea, Dav. Intr. a I'Hist. Nat. des Brach. Mdm. Lin. 



Soc. de Norm. p. 129. 1856. 

 Not Megerlea, Robineau Desvoidy (Diptera).* 

 Megathyris (i)ars) D'Orb. 

 Orthis, Phil. Moll. Sicilia, ii. p. 67. Michelotte, Fauna Mis. 



pi. ii. fig. 21. 

 Terebratella (pars), D'Orb. An. Sci. Nat. p. 66. 1848. 

 Jsmenia, King, Perm. Fos. pp. 81, 142 (not p. 245). Gray, 



B. M. Cat. p. 104. 



SECTION A. {3Iegerlia.y 



1. Megerlia truncata, Linnd. 



Anomia truncata, Liu. S. N, 1152. 1767. 



' Genus not adopted, and hence not pre-occupied. 

 2 Lateral loops closed, shell transverse, sculptured. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .187 



Terebratida fruncafa, Ketz, Nov. Gen. p. 14. 1188. 

 Anomia disculus, Pallas. Misc. Zool. p. 184, pi, 14, fig. 1. 

 Terebratida disculus, Blainv. Diet. Sci. Nat. liii. p. 138. 

 Terebratella truncata, D'Orb. An. Sci. Nat. viii. p. 66, pi. 



vii. figs. 11, 12, 16, 37. 1848. 

 Orthis triincata, Phil. Moll. Sic. ii. p. 69. 

 Terebratula oblita, Michel. Brach. p. 4. 

 Orthis oblita, Michel. Faun. Misc. pi. ii. f. 21. 

 Megathyris oblita, D'Orb. Prodr. iii. p. 134. 

 Anomia scobinata^ Gmel. Syst. Nat. 

 Terebratida deciissata, De Blainv. 

 Terebratida irregularis, De Blainv. 

 Megerlia truncafa, King, Perm. Fos. p. 145. Rve. Conch. 



Icon. pi. xi. fig. 47 a-c. 



Mediterranean ; adjacent Atlantic shores ; Australia. 



Doubtful Species. 



(?) Megerlia {Terebratula) Monstruosa, Scacchi, Oss. Zool. ii. p. 1. 



3Iediterranean. 



SECTION B. {Ismenia.y 



2. Megerlia Jeffreysi, Dall. 



Ismenia f Jeffreysi, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 65, pi. 

 xi. fig. 7-10, Mar. 1871. 



Northeast Atlantic. 



3. Megerlia sanguinea, Chemn. 



Anoynia sanguinea, Chemn. Conch. Cab. viii. p. 96, pi. 78, 



fig. 706. Dillwyn, Cat. Rec. Shells, p. 293. 1817 (not 



of Solander). 

 Ano7nia sanguinolenta, Gmel. S. N. p. 3347. 

 Anomia cruenta, Sol. MSS. (not of Dillwyn). 

 Terebratula cruenta, Donov. Nat. Rep. pi. 56, f. 1. 

 Terebratula erythroleuca, Quoy & Gaim. Voy. Astrolabe. 



iii. p. 557, pi. 85, figs. 8-9. Desh. in Lam. Ed. ii. vii. p. 



350. 

 Terebratula sanguinea, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 357, pi. 71, 



figs. 71-73 (not of Lam., Leach, nor Donovan). 

 Terebratida pulchella, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 360, pi. 71, 



figs. 105-107. 



o 



' Lateral loops open, shell more or less swollen, ovate, smooth. 




188. PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Terehratella sangumea, Dav. An. Nat. Hist. p. 308. 1852. 



Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 90. Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. vii. fig. 



25, a, b, c. 



3Iegerlea pulchella, Dav. An. Nat. Hist. p. 369. 1852. 



Inmenia loulchella, Qtvsiy, B. M. Cat. p. 104. 



Ismenia sanguinea, A. Ad. An. Nat. Hist. ii. p. 99. 1863. 



Megerlia sanguinea, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 308, pi. xxxi. fig. 1-2. 



1871. 



Japan ; Indo-Pacific. 



Doubtful Species. 



Megerlia (Ismenia) Beevei, A. Ad. An. Mag. N. H. ii. p. 99. 1862. 

 Dav. P. Z. S. p. 308, pi. xxxi. fig. 3 (? sanguinea^ var.). 

 1811. Gotto, Japan. 



Genus MAGASELLA, Ball. 



il/agrase/Za, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch. vi. p. 134. 1870. Dav. 

 P. Z. S. p. 307. 1871. 



1. Magasella Adamsi, Davidson. 



ill. Adamsi, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 307, pi. xxx. figs. 23, 24. 

 1871. 



Jaj^an. 



2. Magasella Aleutica, Dall. 



M. Aleutica, Dall, Proc. Cal. Acad. Sci. Dec. 16, 1872 (pub- 

 lished in advance of Proc). 



Unalashka to the Shumagins. 



3. Magasella crenulata, Sowerby. 



Terehratida crenulata, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 358, pi. 71, 



figs. 96-98. 1846. 

 Magas crenulata, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 99. 

 Magasella crenulata, Dall, 1. c. p. 137. 



" Santa Cruz, Canaries^ (?) 



4. Magasella Cumingi, Davidson. 



T. Gumingi, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 78, pi. xiv. figs. 10-16. 1852. 



Rve. Conch. Ic. pi. viii. f. 29. 

 Magasella Cumingi, Dall, 1. c. p. 137. 1870. 



New Zealand. 

 6. Magasella Evansii, Davidson. 



Terehratella Evansii, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 77, pi. xiv. fig. 7-9. 



1852. 

 Magas Evansii, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 99. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



Magas Valenciennesii, Rve. Conch. Ic. pi. 8, fig. 31 a,b, c. 

 Ilagasella Evansii, Dall, 1. c. p. 134, fig. 16 a, b. 1870. 

 (Type.) New Zealand. 



6. Maoasella flexuosa, King. 



Terehratula flexuosa, King, Zool. Joiirn. v. p. 337. Sby. 



Thes. Conch, i. p. 347, pi. 69, figs. 23, 24. 1846. 

 TerehrateUa flexuosa, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 87. 

 Terehratella magellanica, Reeve, Conch. Icon. Journ. de ' 



Conchyl, p. 127. 1861. 

 Magnsella flexuosa, Dall, 1. c. p. 135. 



Orange Harbor, Patagonia. 



7. Magasella Gouldii, Dall. 



M. Gouldii, Dall, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 307, pi. xxxi. fig. 11 a,b, c. 



1871. 

 M. Gouldii, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 67, pi. 11, fig. 



11. July, 1871. Japan. 



8. Magasella inconspicua, Sowerby. 



Terebratula inconspicua, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 359, pi. 



ixxi. figs. 102-104. 1846. 

 Terebratella rubicunda. Reeve non Sol. 

 Ilagasella inconspicua, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 67. 



1871. 



Lyall Bay, Neiv Zealand. 



9. Magasella l^vis, Dall. 



II. lasvis, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 136, pi. vi. figs. 9, 



10, 13. 1870. 



Orange Harbor, Patagonia. 



10. Magasella Patagoniga, Gould. 



Terebratula Patagonica, Gld. Proc. B. S. N. H. Dec. 1850. 



Otia Conch, p. 97. Exp. Shells, pi. 44, figs. 583, 583 e. 

 Waldheimia patagonica, Gld. Otia Conch. Rect. p. 246, 



Index, p. 256. 

 Terebratulina ? patagonica, Suess, Wohn. der Brach. ii. 



p. 16. 

 ? Ilagas patagonica, Dall,]. c. p. 133, i^\. 6, figs. 11,12. 1870. 



Orange Harbor, Patagonia. 



11. Magasella suffusa, Reeve. 



Terebratella suffusa, Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. v. fig. 18, Journ. 



Conchyl. p. 128. 1861. 



Ilagasella suffusa, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 307. 1871. Dall, 1. c. 



vii. p. 67. 1871. 



Habitats 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Section ZRAUSSININJE, Ball. 

 Kraussmmae, Dall, 1. c. p. 13Y. 18T0. 



Genus KRAUSSINA, Dav. 



Kraussia, Dav. An. Xat. Hist. ix. p. 309. 1852. Gra}', B. M. 



Cat. p. 109. Rve. Couch. Ic. pl.ix. (nom. preoc. in corals, 



teste Davidson). 

 Kraussina, Dav. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. p. 39. 1861. Dall, Am. 



Journ. Conch, vi. p. 138. 1870. 



1. Kraussina cognata, Chemn. 



Anomia cognata, Chemn. Con. Cab. viii. p. 78, pi. 688. 

 Terehratula cognata, Sb3\ Thes. i. p. 346, pi. 68, figs. 12-14. 

 Kraussia cognata, Dav. An. Nat. Hist. p. 370. 1852. 



Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. ix. fig. 38. 

 Kraussina cognata, Dall, Am. Journ. Couch, vi. p. 140. 1870. 



South Africa. 



2. Kraussina Lamarcktana, Dav. 



Kraussia Lamarckiana, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 80, pi. xiv. figs. 



22, 23. 1852. Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 111. 

 Kraussina Lamarckiana, Dav. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. p. 39. 



1861. Dall, 1. c. p. 139, fig. 18. 1870. 



Sidney, Australia. 



3. Kraussina picta, Yal. 



K.picta, Val. Verh. Zool. Bot. Ges. Wieu, p. 894. 1865. 

 Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 140. 1870. 



Island of St. Paul, Indian Ocean. 



4. Kraussina rubra, Pallas. 



Anomia rubra, Pallas, Misc. Zool. pi. xiv. figs. 2, 11. 1766. 



Anomia striata, Chemn. viii. p. 94, pi. 77, f. 703. 



Anomia capensis, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3347. Dillwyn, 



Cat. R. S. i. p. 292. 

 Terehratula rubra, Blainv. Diet. Sci. Nat. liii. p. 138. Sby. 



Thes. Conch, i. pi. 68, fig. 10. 

 Terehratula cai)ensis, Krauss. Sud-Afr. Moll. p. 32, pi. ii. 



fig. 10 (not of Ad. <fe Rve.) 

 Terehratula rolundata, Blainv. fide Rve. 

 Kraussia rubra, Dav. An. Mag. N. H. p. 370. 1852 (Type). 



Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. ix. fig. 37 a, b, c. Gray, B. M. Cat. 



p. 109. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



K7'aiissina rubra, Dav. An. Mag. N. H. p. 39. 1861 (Type). 

 Dall, 1. c. p. 138, f. 11. 



South Africa. 

 Doubtful Species. 



Kraussina pisum, Lara. (Val.) An. s. Yert. Ed. ii. vii. p. 330. 

 T. algoensis, Sby. 

 Terebratula natalensis, Krauss. := K. cognata ? 



South Africa. 

 Kraussina capensis, Ad. & Rve. Zool. Samar. p. Tl, pi. 21, f. 4. 

 = Kraussia Deshayesii, Dav. = K. rubra, Pallas ? 



South Africa. 

 Genus BOUCHARDIA, Dav. 



Bouchardia, Dav. Bull. Soc. Geol. de France, vii. p. 62, pi. i. 1846. 



Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. viii. 



Pachyrhynchus, King, Perm. Fos. p. 10. 1850. 



1. Bouchardia rosea, Mawe. 



Terebratula tuUjDa, Blainv. Diet. Sci. Nat. liii. p. 144. 1824. 



T. unguis, Kuster, Conchyl. Cab. vii. p. 35, figs. 8-10. 



Anomia rosea, Mawe, Int. to Concli. t. 15, fig. 4. 1823. 



( Terebratula rosea, Sby. Gen. fig. 4. Thes. Conch, i. p. 



357, pi. Ixxi. figs. 74-n. Hanley, Rec. Sh. p. 322. 1856. 



Bouchardia rosea, Dav. 1. c. pi. i. figs. 1-6. (Type.) 



Pachyrhynchus roseus, King, Penn. Fos. p. 70. 



Bouchardia tulipa, Dav. Mt. Brach. p. 70, figs. 17-18, pi. 



vi. figs. 22-25. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. viii. f. 33. Dall, 



1. c. p. 141. 



Rio de Janeiro. 



Doubtful Species. 



Bouchardia fibula, Rve. Conch. Ic. pi. vii. fig. 30 a-b. 1861. = 



B. tulipa var. ? 



Habitat ? 



Section PLATIDIIN.ffi, Dall. 

 Platidiinse, Dall. Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 142. 1870. 



Genus PLATIDIA, Costa. 



Platidia, 0. G. Costa, Fauno del Reg. Nap. p. 47. Jan. 1852. 



Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 142, 1870, vii. p. 68. 1871. 

 Morrisia, Davidson, An. Nat. Ilist. p. 371. Maj', 1852. Also 



Woodward, Bronn, Reeve, H. & A. Adams and Chemn. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



1. Platidia anomioides, Scacchi, 



Orthis anomioides, Scacchi, Phil. Moll. Sic. ii. p. G9, pi. 18, 



fig. 9. 1844. 

 T. appressa, Forbes, Rep. Br. As. p. 193. 1843. 

 T. seminulum, Davidson (not Phil.). 

 Morrisia anomioides, Dav. Mt. Brach. and An. Nat. Hist. 



p. 311. 1852. Bve. Conch. Icon. pi. 10, fig. 40. 

 Platidia ajiomoides, O. G. Costa, 1. c. p. 47. 1852. Dall, 



1. c. p. 143, figs. 20-21. Bull, M. C. Zool. iii. No. 1, p. 18. 



18tl. 



Florida Beefs ; Shetland Islands ; Mediterranean. 



2. Platidia gigantea, Deshaj'es. 



P. gigantea, Desh. Maillard, Moll. Isle de Bourbon. 1864. 



Isle de Bourbon, Southern Ocean. 



3. Platidia lunifera, Philippi. 



T. lunifera, Phil. Moll. Sicilia, i. p. 97, pi. vi. fig. 16. 1836. 

 Orthis lunifera, Phil. loc. cit. ii. p. 69. 1844. 

 3Iorrisia lunifera. Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 108. 

 Platidia lunifera, Dall, 1. c. p. 143. 1870. 



3Iediterranean. 



Doubtful Species. 



Platidia Davidsoni, Deslongchamps, An. Nat. Ilist. xvi. p. 443, 

 pi. X. fig. 20 a-d. 1855. 



3Iediterra7iean. 

 Section MEGATHYRIN.E, Dall. 



Argiopidae, King, Perm. Fos. p. 142. 1850. 



Megathyrinse, Dall, 1. c. p. 143. 1870. Bull. Mus. C. Zool. iii. i. 

 p. 18. 1871. 



Genus MEGATHYRIS, D'Orbigny. 



Megathyris, D'Orb. Pal. Fran. Terr. Cret. p. 147. 1847. Prodr. 

 ii. p. 259, An. Sci. Nat. 1848. Forbes k Hanley, Brit. 

 Moll. ii. p. 361. 1850. Dall. Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 

 144, 1870 ; vii. p. 68. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. iii. i. p. 18. 

 1871. 



Argiope, Deslongchamps, Mem. Soc. Lin. de Norm. vii. p. 9, 1842 

 (not Savigny & Audouin, 1827, Arachnidse). Desl. Bull. 

 Soc. Geol. de France, vii. ser. ii. p. 65. Also Davidson, 

 Reeve, Woodward, Bronn, II. & A. Adams, Chcmn, Jef- 

 freys, and the majority of authors. (Norn, preoc.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Orthis, sp. Phil. Hagen, Michellotti, nou Djilmim. 

 1. Megathyris decollata, Chemnitz. 



Anomia decollata, Chemn. Conch. Cab. viii. p. 9G, pi. 78, 

 fig. 705. 



Anomia detruncata, Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 



Terebraiula ungula, Retz, Nov. Gen. Test. 1788. 



Terebratida decollata, Deshayes, An. s. Yert. Ed. ii. vii. p. 

 350. 



Terehratula aperfa, Blainville, Diet. Sci. Xat. Also Hi- 

 dalgo, teste Jeffre3's. 



Terehratula pectiniformis, Costa, Fauna del Reg. Nap. 

 1852. 



Terehratula dimidiata, Scacchi. 



Terehratula cardita, Risso, Faun. Eur. Mer. 



Terehratula aura-antiqua, Risso, 1. c. 



Argiope decollata, Desl. 1. c. (t^'pe.) Dav. Rve. Conch. 

 Icon. pi. X. and most modern authors. 



IlegatJujris decollata, D'Orb. 1. c. (type.) Dall, Am. Journ. 

 Conch, vi. p. 145, figs. 22, 23, 1870; vii. p. 68, 1871. 



Atlantic coast of Spain, Ilediterranean. 



Subgenus Cistella, Gray. 



Cistella, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 114. Jan. 1853. H. & A. Adams, 

 Gen. Rec. Moll. ii. p. 581. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 145, vii. p. 68. 

 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 1. c. p. 19. 

 Zellania, Moore, Proc. Somerset Arch. Nat. Hist. Soc. 1854. 

 Davidson, Mem. Soc. Lin. de Norm. p. 141. 1856 (type 

 Z. Davidsoni, Moore). Chera. Man. de Concliyl. ii. p. 210. 

 1. Cistella Barrettiana, Davidson. 



Argio2?e Barrettiana, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 108, pi. xii. fig. 3 a-c. 



Feb. 1866. 

 Argiope antillarum, Crosse & Fischer, Journ. de Conch3'l. 



p. 270, pi. viii. fig. 7. Mar. 1866. 

 Cistella Barrettiana, Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 146. 



Jamaica ; Guadaloupe. 

 \a. Cistella Barrettiana, var. lutea, Dall. 



G. Barrettiana, var. lutea, Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. iii. 

 No. 1, p. 20, pi. i. fig. 5, 5a, pi. ii. figs. 4-8. May, 1871. 



Tortugas. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. CiSTELLA CISTELLULA, S. Wood. 



Terehratula cistelhda, S. Wood. An. Mag. N. Hist. vi. p. 5. 



1840. 

 Ter. Iu7iifera, Phil. Moll. Sic. ii. 1844 (not of Sowerb}'). 

 Megathrjris cistellula, Fbs. & Hani. Brit. Moll. ii. p. 361, pi. 



57, fig. 9. 1850. 

 Argiojye cistellula, Davidson, An. Mag. Nat. Hist. p. 40. 



1861. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. 10, fig. 46. 

 Cistella cistellula, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 114. 1853. Dall, I.e. 



vi. p. 146. 18t0. 



Northwest shores of Europe ; Zetland ; Mediterranean. 



3. Cistella cuneata, Risso. 



Terehratula cuneata, Risso, Eur. Merid. p. 388, fig. 179. 



1826. 

 T. detruncata, Scacchi, non Gmelin. 



T. soldaniana, Risso, 1. c. p. 389, fig. 178. Also Blainville. 

 T. pera, Kuster, vii. i. t. 2, 6, figs. 14-18^ as of Muhlf. 

 Orthispera, Phil. Moll. Sic. ii. 1844. 

 Argiope cuneata, Dav. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. p. 40. 1861. 



Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. 10, fig. 44. 

 Cistella cuneata, Gra}', B. M. Cat. p. 114 (type). 



Mediterranean. 



4. Cistella Neapolitana, Scacchi. 



Ter. Neapolitana, Scacchi, Oss. Zool. ii. p. 18. 1833. 



Orthis Neapolitana, Phil. ii. p. 69. 



Argiope Neapolitana, Dav. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. p. 40. 1861. 



Ter. seminulum, Phil. i. p. 97, non Davidson. 



Ter. lunifera, Shy. i. p. 356, t. 71, figs. 85-86, non Philippi. 



Argiope Forbesii, Davidson. 



Cistella Neapolitana, Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 146, fig. 24. 1870. 



Mediterranean. 



5. Cistella Schrammi, Crosse & Fischer. 



Argiope Schrammi, Crosse & Fischer, Journ. de Conchyl. 



xiv. p. 269, pi. viii. fig. 0. Mar. 1866. 

 Cistella Schrammi, Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 146, 18T0. Bull. Mus 

 Comp. Zool. iii. No. 1, p. 19. 1871. 



Guadaloupe, W. I. 

 5a. Cistella (Schrammi, vai*. ?) rubrotincta, Dall. 



Cistella {Schi-ammi, var.?) rubrotincta, Dall, Bull. Mus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Corap. Zool. 1. c. p. 19, pi. i. fig. 6, 6a. May, 18T1. Am. 

 Journ. Conch, vii. p. G8. July, 1871. 



Tortugas. 



6. CiSTELLA WOODWARDIANA, DaviclsOll. 



Argiope Woodioardiana, Dav. P. Z. S. p. 103. Feb. 1866. 



pi. xii. fig. 4 a-c. 

 Cistella WoodivarxUana, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 146, 



vii. p. 69. Bull, M. C. Z. 1. c. p. 42. 



Jamaica. 



Family THECIDIID^, Dall. 



Thecidas, Desh. Ency. Meth. iii. 1836. 



? Thecidiidse, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 14t. 1870. 



Genus THECIDIUM, Defrance. 



T/ieciiZea, Defr. Fdrussac, Tabl. Syst. p. 38. 1828. 

 Thecidium, Lacaze Duthiers, Ann. Sci. Nat. Zool. t. xv. p. 



262. 1861. 

 Theciduim, Sby. Gen. Shells, xx. 1844. Dav. Intr. Brit. 



Brach. p. 77. Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 147. . 



1. Thecidium Barretti, Woodward. 



T. Barretti, Woodv. Geol. Mag. i. pi. ii. f. 1-3. 1864. Dav. 

 P. Z. S. p. 104. 1866. Dall, 1. c. p. 151. 



Jamaica. 



2. Thecidium Mediterraneum, Risso. 



Thecidea 3Iediterranea, Risso, Eur. Mer. p. 394, fig. 183. 



Desh. Lam. vii. p. 346, Phil. Moll. Sic. i. p. 99, t. 6, fig. 17. 

 T. Mediter7^aneicm, Sby. Thes. Conch, vii. p. 371, pi. 73, figs. 



30-32. 1846. Lacaze Duthiers, 1. c. p. 262, pi. i.-iv. 



Dall, 1. c. p. 151, fig. 27. 

 T. testudinaria, Michelotti. 

 T. spondylea, Scacchi. Jamaica ? Blediterranean. 



Family RHYNCHONELLID.E, Gray. 



Bhynchonellidae, Gray, B. M. Cat. 1850. Dav. Intr. Brit. 

 Brach. p. 73. 1851. Dall, 1. c. vii. p. 69. 1871. 



Genus RHYNCHONELLA, Fischer. 



Bhynchonella, Fischer de Waldheim, Not. Fos. du Gour. de 



Moscou. 1809. (Type B. loxia, F., Jura.) 

 Stenocisma ? James Hall. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Subgenus IIemithyris, D'Orb. 



Hemithiris, D'Orb. Pal. Fran. Fer. Cret. vol. iv. p. 342. 184'7. 



Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. *I0. 1871. 

 Eyijothyris, sp. Fbs. and Hanley, Brit. Moll. ii. p. 345. 1855. 



1. Hemithyris Grayi, Woodward. 



Rlujnchonella Grayi^ Woodw. An. Mag. N. Hist. p. 444, pi. 

 X. fig. 16 a-b-c, 1855. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 153. 1870. 



Feejee Islands. 



2. Hemithyris lucida, Gld. 



Bhynclwnella lucida, Gld. Proc. B. S. N. H. p. 323. 1800. 



Otia Conch, p. 121. A. Ad. An. Mag. N. H. 3d ser. xi. p. 



100. 1863. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 153. 1870. Dav. P. Z. S. 



p. 309. pi. xxxi. figs. 13, 14. 1871. 



Japan. 



3. Hemithyris nigricans, Sby. 



Rhynclionella nigricans, Sby. (as Tere6rfliZfl),Thes. Conch. 



i. p. 342, pi. 71, figs. 81-82. 1846. Dall, 1. c. p. 152, fig. 



34. 1870. 



New Zealand. 



4. Hemithyris psittacea, Graelin. 



Anomia psittacea, Gmelin, S. Nat. 3348. 



Bhyn chonella psittacea , Auct. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. i. f. 2 a-c 



Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 152, fig. 30-33. 1870. 



Hemithiris psittacea, D'Orb. 1. c. (t3'pe). 



Hypothyris psittacea, Fbs. and Hani. Br. Moll. ii. p. 346, t. 



57, f. 1-3. 



Boreal and Arctic Seas. 



5. Hemithyris sicula, Sequenza. 



Bhynchonella sicula, Sequenza, Dav. Mon. It. Tert. Brach. 

 ii. p. 23, pi. XX. fig. 6. 1870. Dall, 1. c. vii. p. 70. 1871. 



Coast of Portugal. 



6. Hemithyris Woodwardi, A. Adams. 



Bhynchonella Woodwardi, A. Ad. An. Mag. 3d ser. xi. p. 

 100. 1863. Dav. P.Z. S. p. 309, pi. xxxi. fig. 12. 1871. 

 Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 153. 1870. 



Japan. 



Genus DIMEEELLA, Zittel. 



Dimerella, Zittel, Dunker and Von Meyer's, I'al. Aug. p. 

 220. 1870. Type D. Gumbeli, Zit. 1. c. p. 222, pi. xli. 

 figs. 27-30. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Cryptopora, Jeffreys, Nature, p. 136. Dec. 2, 18G9. (No 



descr.) 

 Atretia, Jeffreys, Proc. Roy. See. 121, p. 421, par. 36. (No 

 desci-iption.) 

 1. DiMERELLA GNOMON, Jeffreys, MSS. 



(Jeffreys, 1. c. ad ref. descr. null. Gryptopora gnomon et 

 Atretia gnomon.) Dall, L c. vii. p. tO. 1871. 



Deep Sea, west of Ireland. 



Order LYOPOMATA, Owen. 



Lyopomata, Owen, Enc. Brit. Ed. viii. vol. xv. Article Mollusca, 



p. 339. 1858 Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. iii. No. 1, p. 



25. 1871. 

 Fleuropygia, Bronn, Tliierr. iii. 1st Abth. p. 301. 1862. 

 Inarticulata, Huxlej^, Lect. Class. 1864. Intr. Class. An. 



p. 116. 1869. 

 BracMopoda^ valves libres^ Desk. Lamk. An. s. Yert. 2d 



Ed. vii. p. 309. 1836. 

 Palliohranchiata, testa acardis, Van der Hoeven,, Handb. 



der Zool. p. 692. 1850. 



Family CRANIIDuE, Gray. 



Graniadae, Gray, B. M. Cat. p. 155. 1840. Dav. Int. Class. Brit. 



Brach. p. 51. 1851. Woodward, Man. Rec. and Foss- 



Sliells, p. 235. 1854. 

 Gra7iidse^ Owen, Anat. Inv. Index, p. 683. 1853. 

 Graniidee^ H. & A. Ad. Gen. Rec. Moll. ii. p. 583. 1858. Jeffrey's, 



Brit. Conch, ii. p. 24. 1863. Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. 



Zool. iii. No. 1, p. 25. 1871. (Full synonymy.) 



Genus CBANIA, Retzius. 



Grania^ Retzius, Schrift. Berl. Ges. Naturf. Freunde, Bd. ii. p. 72. 

 1781. Type G. ci-aniolaris^ Lin. sp. Syst. Nat. xii. i. pi. 

 ii. p. 1150. 1767. = G. hrattenshurgensis., Retz. -f G. 

 numurulus, Lam. Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. vol. iii. 

 No. 1, p. 27. 1871. (Full synonymy.) 

 Cranicella, Raf. 1815, -\- Orbicula, Cuv. 1798, + Orhicula 

 (pars) Lam. 1799, + Discina, Turton (sp.), 1822, + 

 Anomia (sp.), Lin. 1760, -|- Patella (sp.), Muller, 1766, 

 -|- Siphonaria (sp.), Quenstedt, 1852, -|- Griopus, Gray, 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



1821, -\- Craniolites, Schlotheira, 1820, + Orhicularius^ 

 Dumeril, 1809, -j- Numulus, Agassiz, 184G, -f- Criopodo- 

 derma^ Agassiz, 1848, -\- Cryopus^ Desliayes, 1836, etc. 

 etc. 



Subgenus Crania, Dall. 



Crania^ Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. loc. cit. p. 26. 1871. 

 L Crania anomala, Mnller. 



Patella anomala^ Mull. Prodr. Zool. Dan. p. 237, 2870. 1776. 



Gmel. S. N. p. 3721. 

 Patella distorta, Montagu, Trans. Lin. Soc. xi. p. 195, pi. 



13, fi*. 5. 1808. 

 Patella Kermes, Humphrey, fide Sb}-. & Rve. 

 Anomia turbinata, Dillwyn, Cat. i. p. 286. 

 Griopus anomalus, Flera. Phil. Zool. ii. p. 499. 

 Criopus orcadensis, Leach, Gray, Moll. Gt. Brit. p. 358, pi. 



xiii. figs. 6-8. Dec. 1852. 

 Orhicula norvegica^ Lam. S3'st. p. 140. 1801. Xot of Sby. 



Liu. Tr. and Gen. Sh., Rang. Man. nor Blainville, Man 



p. 515. 

 Orhicula anomala^ Cuvier, Tabl. El. p. 435. 1799. 

 Discina ostreoides, Turton, Dith. Brit. p. 238. 1822. Not 



of Lamarck. 

 Crania turbinata^ Hanley, Wood's Index, Test. pi. xi. fig. 



2. 1856. Not of Poll. 

 Crania personata (part), Defrance, Diet. Sci. Nat. xi. p. 



312. 1818. 

 Crania personata, Lara. (syn. excl.). An. s. Yert. Ed. i. iv. 



p. 938. 1819. 

 Crania norvegica, Sby. Tlies. Conch, i. p. 368, pi. 73, figs. 



15 and 17. 1847. Fbs. and Ilanl. Brit. Moll. i. pi. U. 



fig. 2. 1853. 

 Crania rosfrata, Thorpe, Brit. Mar. Conch, p. 125. 1844. 



Also Fbs. and Ilanley, Brit. Moll. ii. p. 366. 1855. Not 



of Iloeninghaus. 

 Crania anomala, Sb3\ Conch. Man. Ed. ii. p. 125, fig. 197a. 



1842. Dav. Int. Bracli. p. 123, figs. 44-46, pi. ix. figs. 



237, 238. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. i. fig. 4. 1862. Dall, 



Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. vol. iii. No. 1, p. 33. 1871. (Full 



synonym}-.) 



North European Seas. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



la. Crania anomala, var. turbinata, Poll. 



Anomia fiwbinata, Poli, Test. Utriusq. Sicil. ii. p. 189, 261, 



t. 30, fig. 15. 1795. (In synonymy.) 

 Criopus Jimbriatus^ Poli, 1. c. (Animal.) 

 Criopderma turbinatum, Poli, 1. c. (Shell.) 

 Anomia craniolaris (pars), Graelin, Syst. Nat. p. 3340. 



1792. 

 Orbicula turbinata. Lam. An. s. Yert. Ed. ii. Ani. p. 317. 



1830. 

 Crania personafa, Blainv. Diet. Sci. Nat. xi. p. 312. Desh. 



Enc. Meth. ii. c. p. 16. 1830. (Part.) 

 Crania ringens, Hoaninghaus, Mon. Cran. p. 3, No. 2, fig. 2. 



Lam. Hist. An. s. Yert. Ed. ii. vii. p. 302. 1836. Sby. 



Thes. Conch, i. p. 367, pi. 73, f. 10, 11. 

 Crania rostrata, Desh. An. s. Yert. Ed. ii. vii. p. 302. 1836- 



(Partly.) Not of Hoeninghaus. 

 Crania anomala, var. turbinata, Dall, Bull. Mas. Comp. 



Zool. 1. c. p. 34. 1871. (Full synonymy.) 



Mediterranean . 

 16. Crania anomala, var. alba, Jeffreys. 



G. anomala, var. alba, JeflTreys, Brit. Conch, v. p. 165. 1869. 



Dall, Bull. 1. c. p. 34. 1871. 



Shetland, Hebrides. 

 \c. Crania anomala, var. Pourtalesii, Dall. 



C. anomala, var. Pourtalesii, Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 



1. c. p. 35, pi. i. fig, 7 a, b. 1871. 



Florida Keys. 



2. Crania japonica, A. Adams. 



Crania japonica, A. Ad. An. Mag. N. Hist. 3d ser. xi. p. 

 100. 1863. Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 73. 1871. 

 Dav. P. Z. S. p. 311, pi. XXX. fig. 6, 6a. 1871. 



Gotto, Japan. 



3. Crania rostrata, Hoeninghaus. 



C. rostrata, Hoen. Mon. Crania, p. 8, No. 3, f. 3. 1828. Reeve, 

 Conch. Icon. pi. i. f. 3. 1862. Dall, 1. c. vii. p. 73. 1871. 



Mediterranean. 



4. Crania Suessi, Peeve. 



Crania Suessi, Reeve, Conch. Icon. Mon. Cran. pi. i. fig. 2. 

 1862. Dall, 1. c. vii. p. 73. 1871. Bull. Mus. Comp. 

 Zool. 1. c. p. 32. 1871. 



Sydney, Australia. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Family DISCINID^, Gray. 



Discimdae, Gray, Syn. B. M. i. p. 155. 1840. Davidson, Intr. 



Bracli. pp. 51, 125. 1853. Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 



1. c. p. 3G. 1871. (Full synonym}'.) 

 Orbiculacea, Anton, Verzeichn, p. 21. 1839. 

 Orbiculidse, King, An. Mag. N. H. xviii. p. 28. 184G. 

 Orhicidina, Agassiz, Nom. p. 757 (pars). 1848. 

 Craniadee (pars), Forbes and Hanle}', Brit. Moll. ii. p. 364. 1853. 



Genus DISCINA, Lam. 



Discina, Lam. An. s. Yert. Ed. i. vi. p. 236. 1819. 



Cuvier, Regne An. Ed. Voigt, iii. p. 602. 

 Crania^ /3. Schumacher, Essai, p. 102. 1817. 

 Crania (sp.), Gld. Moll. U. S. Ex. Ex. p. 4G5. 1852. 

 Orhicula, ^hy. Min. Conch, vi. p. 4, pi. 506. 1830. Sby. Thes. 



Conch, i. p. 365. 1847. Owen, Anat. Inv. p. 503. 1855. 



Chemn. Man. ii, p. 231. 

 Orbicula (sp.). Lam. Eichwald. 

 Discina, Gray, Ann. Phil. xxvi. (new ser. x.) p. 244. 1825. Dav. 



Lit. Clas. Braoh. pp. 51, 126. 1853. H. & A. Adams, 



Gen. Rec. Moll. ii. p. 584. 1858. Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. 



ZooL 1. c. p. 38. 1871. (Full syn.) 



Subgemis Discina, (Lam.) Dall. 



Discina, Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. 1. c. p. 39. 1871. 

 1. Discina striata, Schumacher. 



Crania i3 striata, Schum. Essai, p. 102, pi. xx. figs. 1 o-f. 



1817. Not of Defrance. 

 Crania radiosa, Gld. Moll. U. S. Ex. Ex. p. 465, figs. 480 



a-c. 1852. 

 Orbicula striata, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 366, pi. 73, fig. 9. 



1847. Forbes and Hanley, Brit. Moll. ii. p. 368. 1853. 



Dav. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. ix. p. 376. 1852. 

 Orbicula Evansi, Davidson, P. Z. S. p. 81, No. 12, pi. xiv. 



figs. 32-34. 1852. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. ix. p. 376. 1852. 



Suess, Wohns. L p. 44 (226). 1859. 

 Orbicula norvegica, Sb}'. Trans. Lin. Soc. xiii. p. 468, pi. 



xxvi. fig. 2. 1822. (Syn. excl.) Gen. Sh. fasc. xiii. figs. 



3-5. Not 0. norvegicaj Lam. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 201 



Orhicula (s. g. Discina) norvegica^ Blainv. Diet. Sci. Nat. 



xxxii. p 304. 1824. Man. Mai. p. 515, pi. Iv. fig. 5. 1825. 

 Orbicula (s. g. Discina) ostreoides^ I^aiig? Man. Moll. p. 263. 



1829. 

 Orbicula osfreoides, Reeve, Conch. Icon. No. 7, pi. i. fig. T 



a-b. 1862. 

 Discina ostreoides, Lam. Hist. An. s, Yert. Ed. i. vi. p. 23T. 



1819. (Type ; no descr.) Ed. ii. vii. p. 297. 1836. Thos. 



Brown. Conch. Textb. Ed. v. p. 108, pi. xiv. fig. 8. 1839. 



Macgillivray, lb. Ed. ix. p. 124. 

 Not Discina ostreoides, Tnrton, Dith. Brit. p. 238. 1822. 



(= Crania anomala.) 

 Discina striata, Dall, Bull, Mas. Corap. Zool. iii. No. 1, p. 



39. 1871. Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 75. 1871. 



Northwest Coast of Africa- 



Subgenus Discinisca, Dall. 



Discinisca, Dall, Bull. Mus. Corap. Zool. 1. c. p. 37. May, 1871. 

 Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 74. 1871. 



1. Discinisca antillarum, D'Oi*bigny. 



Orbicula antillarum, D'Orb. Moll. Cuba, p. 368, pi. xxviii. 



figs. 34-36. 1853. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. i. fig. 2. 1862. 

 Discinisca? antillarum, Dall, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool.l. c. p. 



42. Am. Journ. Conch, vii. p. 77. 1871. 



Cuba, Ilartinique 



2. Discinisca (?) atlantica, Jeffreys MSS. 



Deep Water, N. E. Atlantic. 



3. Discinisca Cumingi, Broderip. 



Orbicula Cumingi, P. Z. S. p. 124. 1833. Reeve, Conch. 



Icon. pi. i. fig. 6. 

 Orbicula strigata, Brod. P. Z. S. 1833. 

 Discinisca Cumingi, Dall, Bull. 1. c. p. 42. Am. Journ. 



Conch, vii. p. 77. 1871. 



Gape St. Lucas to Panama. 



4. Discinisca l^vis, Sby. 



Orbicula Isevis, Sby. Trans. Lin. Soc. xiii. p. 468, pi. xxvi. 



f. 1 a-d. 1822. Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. i. fig. 4 a-b. 1862. 

 Discinisca laevis, Dall, Bull. 1. c. p. 42. Am. Journ. Conch. 



vii. p. 76. 1871. 



Coast of Peru and Chili. 

 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



5. DisciNiscA LAMELLOSA, Broderip. 



Orhicula lamellosa, Bred. P. Z. S. p. 124. 1833. Bve. 



Conch. Icon. pi. ii. fig. 3. 1862. 

 Orhicula tenuis^ Reeve, not Sowerby. 

 Discinisca lamellosa, Dall (type), Bull. 1. c. p. 41. Am. 



Journ. Conch, vii. p. 7G. 1871. 



Panama to Peru. 



6. Discinisca stella, Gould. 



Discina stella, Gould, Proc. B. S. N. H. vii. p. 323. Sept. 



1860. Otia Conch, p. 120. 

 Orhicula stella, Reeve, Conch. Icon. pi. 1, fig. 1. 1862. 

 Discinisca stella, Dall, Bull. 1. c. p. 41. Am. Journ. Couch. 



vii. p. 76. 1871. 



Singajjore ; Philipijines ; China Seas. 



7. Discinisca TENUIS, Sowerby. 



Orhicula tenuis, Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 366, pi. 73, figs. 



4, 5-. 1847. Not of Reeve. 



Discinisca tenuis, Dall, Bull. 1. c. p. 41. Am. Journ. Conch. 



vii. p. 76. 1871. 



Hahitat ? 



Family LIXGULID.E, King. 



Linguliclae, King, Dav. Int. Clas. Brach.p. 133. Dall, Am. Journ. 

 Conch, vi. p. 153. 



Section LINGULINiE, Dall. 

 Lingnlinae, Dall, I.e. p. 153. 1870. 



Genus LINGTJLA, Bruguiere. 



Lingula, Brug. Enc3\ Meth. tab. 250. 1789. Dav. Int. Clas. 



Brach. p. 133. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 134. 1870. 

 Pharetra, Mus. Bolt. Ed. ii. p. 111. 1819. 



1. Lingula Adamsi, Dall. 



Lingula tumidula, A. Ad. (not of Reeve), An. Mag. Nat. 

 Hist. 3d ser. xi. p. 100. 1863. Davidson, P. Z. S. p. 310. 

 pi. XXX. fig. 1. 1871. 



Korean Archipelago. 



2. Lingula affinis, Hancock. 



L. affinis, Han. Tr. lioy. Soc. p. 851. pi. Ixvi. figs. 1-2, 1857. 

 Dall, 1. c. vii. p. 77. 1871. 



East Indies. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA, 203 



3. LiNGULA ANATiNA, Lainarck. 



L. anatina, Lam. Syst. An. s. Yert. Ed. ii. vii. p. 390. 1836. 



Blaiuv. Man. t. 51, f. 3. Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 337, figs. 



1, 2, 2, 9, 10. Dall, A. J. C. 1. c. vi. p. 155, figs. 35-37. 



1870. (Generic type.) 

 Lingula Chemnitzii, Kust. vii. i. pi. i. figs. 7-9, teste Hanle3'. 

 3Iytilus lingua, Dilhvyn, Cat. p. 322. 1817. 

 ? Lingula Murphiana, King, Rve. Con. Ic. pi. i. f. 3. 1861. 



Philippines and 3Ioluccas. 



4. Lingula exusta, Reeve. 



L. exusta, Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. ii. fig. 9. 1861. Dall, 1. c. 

 vi. p. 156. 1870. 



Moreton Bay, Australia. 



5. Lingula hians, Swainson. 



Lingula hians, Sw. Phil; Mag. 62. Zool. 111. vol. ii. pi. ii. 



Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 388, pi. 77, fig. 4. Dall, 1. c. vi. 



p. 156. 

 L. Antonii, Kust. vii. i. pi. i. figs. 7-9. 



China Seas ; Amboyna. 



6. Lingula hirundo, Reeve. 



L. hirundo, Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. ii. fig. 7. 1861. Dall, 1. c. 



vi. p. 156. 1870. 



Fort Curtis, N. E. Australia 

 7- Lingula jaspidea, A. Adams. 



L. jaspidea, A. Ad. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. xi. p. 101. 



1863. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 156. Dav. P. Z. S. p. 310, pi. xxx. 



fig. 3. 1871. 



L. Dumortieri, Jeffreys, P. Z. S. p. 311. 1871. (? Xot of 



Nyst.) Japan. 



8. Lingula lepidula, A. Adams. 



L. lejndula, A. Ad. An. Mag. K H. xi. p. 101. 1863. Dav. 

 P. Z. S. p. 311, pi. xxx. fig. 4. 1871. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 156. 

 1870. Inland Sea, Japan. 



9. Lingula ovalis. Reeve. 



L. ovalii<, Rve. P. Z. S. p. 100. 1841. Sby. Thes. Conch, 

 i. p. 393, pi. 67, fig. 8. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 156. 1870. 



Sandxcich Islands. 



10. Lingula smaragdina, A. Adams. 



L. smaragdina, A. Ad. An. Mag. Nat. Hist. 3d ser. xi. p. 



101. 1863. Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 156. 1870. Dav. P. Z. S. 



p. 310, pi. xxx. fig. 2. 1871. 



China Sea, Japan. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



11. LiNGULA TUMiDULA, Reeve. 



Lingida tuniidula, Rve. P. Z. S. p. 100. 1841. Conch. 

 Syst. i. pi. 1 25, f. 4. Sby. Tlies. Conch, i. p. 393, pi. 67, f. 7. 

 Lingula compressa, Rve. P. Z. S. p. 100. 1841. 



Moreton Bay, Australia. 



Genus GLOTTIDIA, Dall. 



Gloffidia, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 157, 1870 ; vii. p. 77, 1871. 

 Lingula, sp. Auct. 



1. Glottidia albida, Hinds. 



Lingula albida, Hinds, Yoy. Sulph. p. 71, pi. 19, tig. 4. 1844. 



Sby. Thes. Conch, i. p. 393, pi. 07, fig. 6. Rve. Conch. 



Ic. pi. i. fig. 4. 1861. 



Glottidia albida, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 157, pi. 8, 



fig. 1-6. 1870. 



Monterey to San Diego, California. 



2. ? Glottidia antillarum, Reeve. 



Lingula antillarum, Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. ii. fig. 8. 1861. 



? Glottidia antillarum, Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 159. 



Martinique, W. I. 

 8. ? Glottidia audebarti, Broderip. 



Lingida audehardi, Brod. P. Z. S. p. 125. 1833. Sbj'. Thes. 



Conch. 1. p. 392, pi. 67, fig. 5. 



Lingula audebarti, Rve. Conch. Icon. pi. i. fig. 5. 



? Glottidia audebarti, Dall, 1. c. p. 159. 



Bay of Guayaquil. 



4. Glottidia Palmeri, Dall. 



Glottidia {albida var, ?) Palmeri, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch. 



vii. p. 77. 1871. 



Head of the Gulf of California. 



5. Glottidia pyramidata, Stimpson. 



Lingida pyj-amidata, Stiraps. Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, 

 xxxix. p. 444. 1860. Morse, Am. Nat. iv. p. 314, figs. 

 76-78. 1870. 



Glottidia pyramidata, Dall, Am. Journ. Conch, vi. p. 158. 



1870. 



North and South. Carolina. 



6. ? Glottidia semen, Broderip. 



Lingula semen, Brod. P. Z. S. p. 125. 1833. Sby. Thes. 



Conch, i. p. 392, pi. 67, fig. 11. 

 ? Glottidia semen, Dall, 1. c. vi. p. 159. 1870. 



Isle of La Platia, W. Columbia. 




Froc.AN.S. im. 



W.G)NflY, PEL. nWSTPA7ED BYTHE rSAAC BMTON FUND 



imiey ancLWxxjid. OTvA-nieric^riTiiLrtionata. 





Froc.AN.S. 187J. 



TlateZ. 









18. 



w 



J3 



^4 



n 



15 





/(5 



;/ 



^ 



^1 



25 



i 



^ae 



/I GARRETT, DEL. 



ILLUSTRATED BY THE ISAAC BAHTOfi FUND. 



A.&arrdtj ChiNmPolynesiwiMolluscw 





3-oc.A.KS. 187J. 



FlateJ. 



4f 



43[ 



4Ji 



47 



49 , 



.Wl 



^> 



3 



ffS 



65 



-^ 





AGARRrr,Dl 



72 





51 1 



Xi 



T 60 



6/ 



Wk\ 



64 



^ 



^ 



62 



9 



^ % 



T 



lUUSTFAUDSr TH[ ISAAC BAHTON FUND. 



A. Qarreit^ OjuNew Poly lies WJiMdUuscxv. 





Troc.AX5J87J. 



nat, 4. 



'^^i^M^ 





-^^w 



A.GARFIETT, DEi. 



lUUSWArEO err TH ISAAC BA/^rOH FUND. 



GoniocLorisTjyoTii. GiirnrM> 





PROG.A.N.S. 1873. 



PLATE S 





^v^^;^^ 











'^ V 







%et-'? *'*'^ 



*% ' 



:**'*' 



^. 









v^te^M- 



^A 



Vij 



ildwia Siieppard, del. 



BUTEOBOREALIS,VAR.KRIDER1I.HOOPES 





NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



March 4. \lu i , 



Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the chair. \-^. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a flower of Bletia Tankervillia 

 {Phaius grandijiora of some authors), in which the dorsal sepal 

 (or, as some authors contend, petal), had united with tlie column, 

 and had been much retarded in its development accordingly. 

 He said that he had several dozen of flowers produced in this 

 way this winter, all however confined to separate spikes from 

 those whicli V)ore tlie perfect flowers. In some cases flowers were 

 produced which had two of the exterior petals united together 

 perfectly, in which case the3'^ formed a hood over the apex of the 

 column. As changes of a similar character were not uncommon 

 in Orchidaceous plants, it was likely this form of changed struc- 

 ture had been seen before, though not falling within his own 

 observation. It was usual to pass over these appearances as 

 " monstrosities," but in truth the whole Orchid structure was 

 little less than a monstrosity. If we except the character of the 

 position of the seeds in the capsule, there was little to divide an 

 Orchid from an Iris, be^^oud the power of combining organs 

 which are free in the Iris the power which produced the " mon- 

 strosity" we see. The stamens were entirely coherent with the 

 pistil in Orchidaceous plants, and free in the Iridaceous. He 

 had seen in a " monstrous" Habenaria the lip so transformed, 

 that the whole flower had as regular an appearance as a Sisyrin- 

 chium in the Iridacese. 



He did not think as much had been made out of the changes 

 of structure in Orchids in the study of evolution, as miglit be, 

 in consequence of the impression that these abnormal forms, 

 as they were termed, were monstrosities, or the results of culti- 

 vation. There had been already on record accounts of changes 

 in wild Orchids more remarkable than many much dwelt on by 

 many modern writers on development. Sir Richard Schomburg 

 described and figured forty years ago, in the Linntean Transactions 

 (15tli vol.), three distinct genera Catasetum, Machranthus, and 

 Myanthus all growing out of one plant in Demerara ; and seed 

 which he took from one of these, and scattered on a piece of 

 rotten wood, produced plants with flowers of one of the otlier 

 genera. All these facts showed that the power of cohesion of one 

 organ witli another was one of tlie leading forces at work in 

 forming the Orchidaceous structure; and, as we saw in the speci- 

 men exhibited to-night, tliis power could be readily obstructed, 

 so as to produce many variations, it could hardl}' be said that 

 genera were founded on any absolute law. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lie further remarked, that, in examining closely the flowers of 

 Bletia Tankervillia early in the morning, he found on the outside, 

 at the base of the three exterior petals, a liquid exudation from a 

 small gland. It was highly ])roba])le that these glands were rudi- 

 mentary spurs, and that, if the course of nutrition which sus- 

 tained the cohering power of an Orchid could in any wa}' be 

 diverted before the final direction of form, each of these outer 

 petals might take on some of the labellatc character with its at- 

 tendant spur, which gave such a peculiar appearance to so many 

 Orchidaceous plants. 



The death of Dr. Thos. McEuen was announced. 



March 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent3^-three members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



Descriptions of new species of marine shells inhabiting the 

 South Sea Islands. By Andrew Garrett. 



Descriptions of a new species of Goniodoris. By Andrew 

 Garrett. 



Descriptions of new species of laud shells inhabiting the South 

 Sea Islands. By Andrew Garrett. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan announced the deatli of Dr. John Torre}', 

 and offered the following resolutions, which were unanimously 

 adopted : 



Hesolved, That the Academy of Natural Sciences of Pliiladel- 

 phia receives with profound regret the announcement of the death 

 of Dr. John Torrej^, who for fift}' j-ears has been one of its most 

 esteemed correspondents, and whose scientific eminence is world 

 renowned. 



Resolved,, That, as an expression of our sense of the severe loss 

 science suiters by his death, these resolutions be entered on the 

 minutes, and published in the Proceedings of the Acadcni}-. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



March 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twentj'-six members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 Description of a new variety of Buteo. By Bernard A. Hoopes 



Remarks on the Occurrence of an Extinct Hog in America. 

 Prof Leidy exhibited the fragment of a lower jaw of a pig which 

 Prof. Hayden had picked up, together with many remains of ex- 

 tinct mammals, in the pliocene sands of the Niobrara River, 

 Nebraska. The specimen contains the temporary molars, and 

 does not diflfer anatomicallj^ from the corresponding part of the 

 domestic pig. It is heavier than usual, and appears to have un- 

 dergone some alteration, perhaps by the partial replacement of a 

 portion of its bone cartilage by mineral matter. The specimen 

 he viewed as of recent character, and not as a true indigenous 

 fossil. Prof L. remarked that he had never seen any remains of 

 the hog which he could confidently view as true American fossils. 

 Rafinesque, DeBlainville, Holmes, and Emmons had reported and 

 represented specimens as American fossils, but he doubted their 

 character as such. He had seen the specimens of Emmons, re- 

 puted to be from the miocene of N. Carolina, and those of Holmes, 

 from the shores of the Ashley River, S. C, and felt convinced 

 they were of recent date. Prof. Cope has recently reported the 

 discovery of the tooth of a hog in New Jersey, M'hich he has re- 

 ferred to an extinct species with the name of Sus vagram^. He 

 had not seen the specimen, but was inclined to suspect it would 

 turn out to belong to the same category as the former ones. 



Prof. Cope mentioned that Prof W. C. Kerr, State Geologist 

 of North Carolina, had submitted to his examination an entire 

 cranium with other bones of a hog said to have been taken from 

 the Miocene marl of Wilson County, North Carolina, at a depth 

 of ten feet from its surfitce, or sixteen feet from the surface of the 

 ground. The skull was partially, at least, filled with this matrix. 

 The bone was not silicified, and though there were but two pre- 

 maxillary teeth, and the canines were small, he thought that it 

 belonged to a sow Sus scropha. 



Prof. Cope further stated that Dr. Hayden handed to him for 

 determination some bones on a fragment of the Green River shale 

 of the Eocene of Wyoming. They indicated a species of Anou- 

 rous Batrachian, but, as the individuals were not fully developed, 

 he was not prepared to identify the genus. They constituted the 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



first iiidicalioii of this order in time; those previously known from 

 Europe .ind India being all of Miocene age. 



March ^5. 

 Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the cliair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



There not being a quorum present for the transaction of busi- 

 ness, on motion, the meeting adjourned until April 1, when Xa- 

 thaniel E. Janne}', Richard Peterson, Lewis Haehnlen, Peter C. 

 Erben, and Mrs. Levi Morris were elected members : and, 



Dr. J. Dalton Hooker, of Kew, England, and Andrew Garrett, 

 of Huaheine, Society Islands, were elected correspondents. 



On report of the committees, the following papers were ordered 

 to be printed : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF MARINE SHELLS INHABITING THE 



SOUTH SEA ISLANDS. 



BY ANDREW GARRETT. 



RissoiNA suPRAcosTATA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 1. 



Shell elongate-oblong, sub-cylindrical, thin,, sub-pellucid, white 

 or corneous ; spire turreted, long, acute ; embryonal whorls 3, 

 smooth ; normal whorls T, convex, upper ones swollen above, the 

 first four with small longitudinal slightly oblique ribs ; whole sur- 

 face with regular crowded delicate raised strioe ; suture deeply im- 

 pressed ; aperture oblique, rather large, subovate, about one-third 

 the length of the shell ; peristome somewhat dilated, margined by 

 an external flat varix which curves upward over the umbilical re- 

 gion ; columella and parietal region covered witli a thin callus. 



Length 10 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A rare species of which we found fifteen examples in the upper 

 region of the larainarian zone. It belongs to the same group 

 with R. Gumingii and R. tenuistriata. It differs from the former 

 in its smaller size, more swollen whorls, and stouter varix behind 

 the outer lip. Gumingii has the longitudinal ribs cut by spiral 

 grooves. 



RissoiNA scuLPTiLis, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 2. 



Shell elongate-ovate, solid, shining, white ; spire long, gradu- 

 ally tapering from the body; whorls 9 ?, convex, latticed with lon- 

 gitudinal and transverse ribs, nodose at their points of intersec- 

 tion ; transverse ribs three on each whorl of the spire, five on 

 the body whorl, and their interstices crossed by very fine strife ; 

 suture deeply impressed ; aperture rather large, oblique, sub-ovate ; 

 peristome thick, somewhat dilated ; externally ridged at the basal 

 sinus; columella and parietal region with a rather thick deposit 

 of callus. 



Length 8^ mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare and beautiful species, of which we found but a single 

 specimen, very perfect except loss of apex. Its coarse latticed 

 surface will readily distinguish it. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



RiSSOINA MILLECOSTATA, Gam, pi. 2, fig. 3. 



Shell elongate-oblong, sub-cj-lindrical, rather thin, white ; spire 

 long, convex, apex acute, the upper whorls tapering more rapidly 

 than the lower ones ; whorls 11, flatly convex, closely striated with 

 transverse elevated lines, longitudinally ribbed ; ribs small, nume- 

 rous, closely set, slightly o1)lique, gradually becoming obsolete 

 toward the lower part of the whorls ; suture deeply incised ; aper- 

 ture sub-ovate, nearly vertical, about a third the length of the 

 sliell ; peristome thick, slightly sinuous above ; basal sinus rather 

 indistinct ; columella and parietal region with a thin callus. 



Length 9 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Onl}^ a solitary but perfect example found. Its most obvious 

 character is its numerous ribs, transverse lines, and absence of the 

 external rib to the outer lip. 



RiSSOINA ORYZA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 4. 



Shell small, oblong-ovate, solid, smooth, shining, Avhite ; spire 

 moderatel}' elevated, rather rapidly tapering, apex obtuse; whorls 

 6-7, flatly convex, the last one rather large, slightly compressed 

 beneath; suture faintly impressed and broadly margined beneath ; 

 aperture rather large, oblique, sub-ovate ; peristome thick, dilated ; 

 columella oblique. 



Length 2 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Three examples found in beach sand at Kiva Island. It belongs 

 to the same group with B. curta and R. semiplicata. 



RiSSOINA IIORRIDA, GaiT., pi. 2, fig. ,5. 



Shell small, elongate-oblong, thick, vitreous, white ; spire rather 

 long, graduall}^ tapering from the body whorl, apex obtuse ; whorls 

 7, longitudinally ribbed, ribs large, closely set, sliglitlj^ oblique, 

 crossed by equally large spiral ridges, two on the whorls of the 

 spire, and four on the sliort body whorl, their points of intersec- 

 tion acutely papillose ; the deep interstices with elevated trans- 

 verse strife ; suture deeply incised and crenulate ; aperture sub- 

 ovate, about one-fourth the length of the shell ; peristome very 

 thick, somewhat five angled. 



Lengtli 3 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A ver}' rare species remarkable for its bold sculpturing. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPHIA. 211 



RissoiNA SCABA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. G. 



Shell elongate-oblong, solid, vitreous, shining, white ; spire 

 rather long, turreted, gradually tapering from the body whorl, 

 apex obtuse; whorls 8, flatly convex, the last short and rounded, 

 longitudinally ribbed; ribs small, rather close, compressed, slightly 

 oblique, crossed by numerous small transverse ridges, forming 

 granules at their points of intersection ; suture deeply excavated ; 

 base obliquely grooved and ridged ; aperture small, oval, oblique, 

 and the basal sinus large ; peristome very thick, margined with a 

 stout external varix ; columella oblique concave. 



Length 4 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We obtained a single example at the above location and one at 

 the Samoa Isles. 



RissoiNA cosTATOGRANOSA, Garr., pi. 2, fig-. 7. 



Shell small, elongate-oblong, solid, shining, ashy-white ; spire 

 long, gradually tapering from the body whorl, apex obtuse ; whorls 

 9, convex, the last one rounded, longitudinally granosely ribbed ; 

 ribs rather small, closely set, slightly oblique, flexuous on the last 

 whorl, and transversely grooved ; suture deeply impressed ; aper- 

 ture oblique, sub-ovate, two-sevenths the length of the shell ; peri- 

 stome thick, finely crenulate, somewhat dilated. 



Length 5 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Five specimens found under clumps of coral on reefs. It be- 

 longs to the same group with R. 'Gerithiopsis, Pse. 



RissoiNA GRACILIS, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 8. 



Shell small, elongate, slender, cylindrically tapering, rather 

 thick, somewhat shining, light-brown ; spire long, sub-acute ; 

 whorls 9, convex, last one short, rounded, longitudinally ribbed; 

 ribs rather large, closely set, as wide as their interstices, slightly 

 oblique, and flexuous on the last part of the body whorl ; suture 

 margined beneath; aperture small, sub-oval, nearly vertical; peri- 

 stome thick, sinuous above and beneath ; columella concave and 

 callous. 



Length 3 mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A beautiful slender species belonging to the group of which 

 Rissoina ambigua, Gl., may be considered as the type. B. gra- 

 cilis also occurs at the Society Isles. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



RissoiNA DEBiLis, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 9. 



Shell elongate, slender, white ; spire long, rapidly tapering from 

 the body whorl ; whorls 8, convex, the last one rounded, longi- 

 tudinally ribbed ; ribs small, slightly oblique, rounded, flexuous 

 on tlie body whorl ; interstices transverselj'- striated with fine 

 raised lines, which are larger and continuous at the base ; suture 

 deeply impressed ; aperture oblique, sub-oval, about two-sevenths 

 the lengtli of the shell ; peristome much thickened externall3\ 



Length 4^ mill. 



Hub. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species found under clumps of coral on reefs. 



RissoiNA AFFiNis, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 10. 



Shell elongate-oblong, rather solid, smooth, shining, white; 

 spire moderately elevated, obtuse, somewhat rapidly' tapering ; 

 whorls 7-8, convex, the last one large, swollen, slightly com- 

 pressed ; suture linear ; aperture large, oblique, ovate, one-third 

 tlie length of the shell; peristome very thick, dilated, sinuous 

 above and beneath ; columella and parietal region callous. 



Length 5 mill. 



Hub. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A rare species belonging to the same group with R. curta, tri- 

 dentala and oryza. 



KissoiNA TEREBRA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 11. 



Shell solid, elongate, subulate, ashy-white, with or without a 

 revolving brown band ; spire long, acute, tapering from the body 

 whorl; eml)ryonal whorls 2, smooth, normal whorls 10, convex, 

 longitudinallj^ strongly ribbed; ribs slightly oliliqiie, angular, 12- 

 13 in the penultimate whorl ; interstices with minute crowded 

 raised transverse striae, which are most conspicuous towards the 

 base ; suture deeply impressed ; aperture small, oblong-oval, 

 oblique, less than a fourth the lengtli of the shell ; peristome 

 trenchant on its edge, externally strongly varicose ; columella and 

 parietal region with a white callus. 



Length 8^ mill. 



Hah. Viti and Samoa Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A rare species of which we found four examples under clumps 

 of coral on reefs. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



RiSSOINA TUURITA, GaiT., pi. 2, fig. 13. 



Shell oblong-ovate, solid, white, spire moderately elevated, 

 turretcd ; whorls 10, plain, irregularl}- increasing, all except the 

 body strongly tabulate, the angle sharp, and excepting the three 

 last whorls, strongly ribbed longitudinally ; ribs rounded, the 

 same width as their interstices, and the whole surface with small 

 close spiral elevated lines and grooves ; aperture oblique, ovate, 

 about one-third the length of the shell ; peristome thick, slightly* 

 expanded, crenulate within; columella and parietal region with a 

 rather thick deposit of callus. 



Length 7 mill. 



Hah. Societ}' Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species found under clumps of coral on the outer 

 reefs. 



ViTRiNELLA PURA, Garr. , pi. 3, fig. 13. 



Shell small, depressed orbicular, rather thin, smooth, shining 

 white, with faint microscopical radiating lines of growth ; spire 

 depressly conoid ; whorls 4, flatly convex, rapidly and regulai'ly 

 increasing, last one large, rounded, slightly deflected in front, and 

 somewhat angular near the umbilicus; suture channelled ; umbili- 

 cus deep funnel-shaped, spirally' grooved, nearl}' one-third the 

 greatest diameter of the shell; aperture circular, oblique ; peri- 

 stome rather thick, nearly continuous. 



Diam. Greatest 2, height 1 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



We found about thirty examples of this species in beach sand 

 at Kiva Island. It is probably the first species recorded from the 

 South Sea Islands. 



ViTRiNELLA LiRiciNCTA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 14. 



Shell small, depressed orbicular, shining, hyaline, white, spire 

 but little elevated ; whorls 4, convex, regularly and rapidly in- 

 creasing, last one large, rounded, girdled with 9-11 ridges, which 

 are most crowded beneath and remote above ; suture linear; um- 

 bilicus large, deep, perspective, freely showing the whorls, spirally 

 ridged a little more than a third the greatest diameter of the shell ; 

 aperture circular, diagonal ; peristome nearly continuous. 



Diam. Greatest H, height | mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



About sevent}' specimens of this beautiful species were gathered 

 from the beach sand at Kiva Island. 



ViTRiNELLA scuLPTiLis, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 15. 



Shell depressly orbicular, whitish, ratlier thick, spire broadly 

 and depressly conical ; whorls 5, tabulate, regularly and rapidly 

 increasing, last one very large, rounded, girdled with eight promi- 

 nent ribs, the second one on the shoulder crenulate, all narrower 

 than their interstices, excepting those on the base, which are 

 more closely set ; the crenulate and the upper plain ridge ascend- 

 ing the whorls of the spire; the concave interstices with crowded 

 oblique raised strife ; suture margined b}- tlie upper ridge ; umbili- 

 cus deep, exhibiting the volutions, margined b}^ the last rib, 

 striated with coarse oblique raised lines, and about one-third the 

 greatest diameter of the shell ; aperture circular, diagonal ; peri- 

 stome thick, united by a callus. 



Diam. Greatest 4^, height 3 mill. 



Hab. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Xat. Sciences.) 



An elegantl}^ sculptured species of which we found twenty 

 examples on a sandj- mud flat ou the north coast of Natawa Bay, 

 Vanna Levu. 



ViTRiNELLA CiELATA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 16. 



Shell small, depressly orbicular, vitreous, shining, sub-pellucid, 

 white, spire depressly conoid ; whorls 2>h angular, last one trigonal, 

 angles slightly carinate, crossed b}- small closely-set rounded 

 slightl^^flexuous ribs; umbilicus small, pervious; aperture diagonal, 

 rounded ; peristome thick, continuous. 



Diam. Greatest 2, height 1 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare and beautiful species, of whicli we found four exam- 

 ples in beach sand at Kiva Island. 



ViTRiNELLA NODOSA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 17. 



Shell small, discoid, white, spire flat ; whorls 3^, convex, rapidly 

 and regularly increasing, last one rounded, sub-trigonal, trans- 

 versel}'^ nodose, crossed by crowded thin elevated striae ; umbilicus 

 large, crenulate, freely exposing the whorls ; aperture oblique, 

 rounded ; peristome nearl}' continuous. 



Diam. Greatest 2, height ^ mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles, (Coll. Garrett.) 



One perfect and two imperfect examples found. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



Cheletropis crenilabris, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 18. 



Shell minute, ovate, thin, fragile, pellucid, shining, corneous ; 

 spire rather widely conical, a little more than half tlie length of 

 the shell, apex rather obtuse ; whorls 5, slightly convex, the first 

 two with very fine oblique raised lines, the last one large, swollen ; 

 suture faintly impressed ; aperture broadly oval, strongly effuse 

 at the base : peristome thickened, ribbed externally, and the lower 

 half crenulate on the edge ; columella slightly callous and some- 

 what twisted. 



Length 2 mill. 



Hah. Paumotus Seas. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Two perfect examples of this pelagic species were found on the 

 sands at the Paumotus Islands. It differs from the figure and 

 description of C Huxleyi^ Forbes. 



? RissoA viTREA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 19. 



Shell minute, OA-ate, thin, pellucid, smooth, shining, white; 

 spire conical, obtuse ; whorls 5, strongly convex, last one large, 

 rounded; suture well impressed, margined ; aperture sub-circular, 

 nearl}' one-third the length of the shell ; peristome rather thick. 



Length li mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Not uncommon in beach sand at Kiva Island. 



?RissoA LiTTORiN^FORMis, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 20. 



Shell small, ovate, smooth, shining, pellucid, white ; spire coni- 

 cal, obtuse ; whorls 5|^, strongly convex, last one very large, 

 rounded ; suture deeply impressed, slightly margined ; aperture 

 sub-circular, nearly one-third the length of the shell ; peristome 

 rather thick. 



Length, 2 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Two examples found with the preceding species, to which it is 

 closelj' allied. 



RissoA iNFRASTRicTA, Garr., pi. 2 fig. 21. 



Shell small, oblong, thick, shining, white, spire rather long, ob- 

 tuse; whorls 5, strongly convex, constricted at the base, and 

 slightly so next the suture, longitudinally ribbed, ribs large, ab- 

 ruptly terminating at the basal stricture; aperture roundly ovate 

 one-third the length of the shell ; peristome thick, with an external 

 rib. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Length 2 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A single specimen found with the two preceding species. 



?RissoA INPRATINCTA, Garr., pi, 2, fig. 22. 



Shell small, elongate, turreted, rather thin, sub-pellucid, shin- 

 uig, ash3'-white, with a brown tinge at the base ; spire long, acute ; 

 whorls 8, rounded, clathrate with longitudinal and smaller revolv- 

 ing ribs ; suture deeply impressed ; aperture small, sub-ovate, about 

 one-fourth the length of the shell ; peristome thin, with a slight 

 angle at its union with the arched columella. 



Length 2|- mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles, Samoa Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A few examples occurred under stones near low-water mark. 

 The general aspect of the shell is like some of the small species 

 of Bittium. 



RissoA YENUSTA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 23. 



Shell small, elongate-ovate, solid, vitreous, shining white ; whorls 

 7 ? convex, spirally ridged, ridges large, crenulate, compressed, Ave 

 on the body whorl, the upper two continued up the spire, the in- 

 terstices latticed with small compressed ribs ; suture deeply im- 

 pressed, margined ; aperture oval, slightl}* ol)lique, one-^third the 

 length of the shell ; peristome very thick, externally ribbed, mar- 

 gins united b}^ a callosity ; columella and parietal region arched. 



Length 3^ mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett). 



A very rare species, remarkable for the beauty of its sculpturing. 



VRissoA CRYSTALLiNA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 24. 



Shell small, ovate, thin, sub-pellucid, vitreous, shining, white; 

 spire conical, obtuse ; whorls 5, convex, last one very large, 

 rounded, longitudinall}^ ribbed ; ribs small, slightly oblique, evanes- 

 cent on the lower part of the body whorl, the whole surfiice with 

 smaller spiral ridges; suture deeply impressed ; aperture sub-cir- 

 cular, vertical, slightly angulate above, a little more than a third 

 the length of the shell ; peristome thickened ; columella arched, 

 callous. 



Length 2 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A few examples picked up on the saudy beaches at Kiva Island. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



?T?rssoA HTALINA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 25. 



Shell elongate-oblong, sub-cylindrical, thin, hyaline, shining 

 white ; spire long, obtuse ; whorls 6-7, convex, with very fine 

 crowded revolving raised striiie, crossed by more delicate lines of 

 growth ; suture deeply impressed ; aperture roundlj'^-ovate, vertical, 

 one-third the length of the sliell; peristome rather thick, slightly 

 expanded at the base, margins united b^'^ a callosity ; columella 

 arched. 



Length 6 mill. 



Hab. Samoa, Yiti, and Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences.) 



A very rare and beautiful species of which we found eight exam- 

 ples at the above groups of islands. 



RissoA TRUNCATA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 36. 



Shell small, oblong, thin, cjdindrical, pellucid, shining, white; 

 spire moderately long, apex truncate ; whorls 5, convex, the three 

 last of nearly equal width, with fine crowded raised revolving striae ; 

 suture deeply impressed ; aperture roundlj'-ovate, vertical, little 

 less than one-third the length of the shell; peristome thick, slightly 

 expanded, margins united by a callosity ; columella arched. 



Length 2 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We found five examples of this species in beach sand at Kiva 

 Island. It is closel}^ allied to the preceding species, but differs in 

 size, coarser strise, more truncate apex, and less tapering spire. 



VoLVARiA (VoLVARiNA) PTGM.EA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 27. 



Shell very small, ovate, smooth, glossy, white ; spire depressly 

 conoid ; aperture narrow, linear ; peristome abbreviately lyrate 

 within, and slightly everted towards the base ; columella with 4-5 

 plaits. 



Length 2^ mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Not uncommon in the condition of beach-worn specimens. 



Drillia vidualoides, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 38. 



Shell sub-claviform, solid, spire long, acute, ashy-white, lower 



half of the last whorl chestnut-brown ; whorls 7-8, concave beneatli 



the suture, girdled with a revolving vow of large oblong nodules, 



about eight on each whorl ; aperture oval, varied with white and 



15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



chestnut-brown, about one-third the length of the shell ; canal 

 very short, wide and truncate; sinus large, deep, and rounded; 

 peristome sharp, arched, and slightl}'' sinuous near the base ; colu- 

 mella smooth, callous, and a wart-like callosity next the sinus. 

 Length 10 mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Xat. Sciences.) 

 An abundant species living on masses of dead coral in the lower 

 region of the littoral zone. It closely resembles D. vidua, Rve., 

 which we also collected both at the Yiti, and at Wallis Island, 

 and were invariably found on weedy ground, most generally buried 

 in sandy mud. Our species has the nodules on the body whorl 

 less acute, and vidua has the base of the shell more or less whitish 

 and there is always a row of granules on the lower half of this 

 body whorl. 



Drillia papillosa, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 29. 



Shell small, elongate-oblong, solid, spire moderately elevated, 

 yellowish-white ; whorls 8, convex, constricted beneath the suture, 

 spirally granulose ; granules rather large, three rows on the whorls 

 of the spire, the lower one obsolete; base contracted, spirally ridged 

 and produced into a short, obtuse, open canal ; aperture sub-ovate, 

 small, nearly a third the length of the shell ; posterior sinus large, 

 deep, and rounded ; peristome rather acute, slightly sinuous near 

 the base ; columella smooth, callous, nearly vertical. 



Length 6 mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Only a single but perfect example of this small species was 

 found. 



Drillia MiNUxissmA, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 30. 



Shell minute, elongate ovate, solid, spire rather short, light- 

 brown ; whorls G, spirally granulated, granules rather large, closeh' 

 set, disposed in two rows on the whorls of the spire, the lower one 

 the larger ; base contracted, spirally ridged ; aperture ovate, deep- 

 brown, one-third the length of the shell ; posterior sinus large, 

 circular, margins nearly united ; peristome rather sharp and 

 strongly arched; columella smooth, nearly vertical. 



Length 2 mill. 



Bab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Two perfect specimens were found under clumps of coral on 

 reefs. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



Drillia pusilla, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 31. 



Shell small, oblong, sub-fusiform, solid, slightly shining, ash}'- 

 uiiite, the lower portion of the whorls grayish-brown ; spire rather 

 long, convex in outline, apex sub-acute; whorls 6-7, convex, 

 slightly constricted beneath the suture, last one contracted at the 

 base and furnished with a stout varix on the right side ; longi- 

 tudinally ribbed, ribs small, slightly oblique, somewhat flexuous, 

 sub-angular, slightly nodulous next the suture, about 15 on 

 the whorls of the spire ; base spirally ridged and grooved ; canal 

 short, rather widel}^ open, truncate ; aperture light-brown, oblong 

 oval, about one-third the length of the shell ; sinus large, x'ounded ; 

 peristome rather sharp, furnished with a small sinus near the 

 base. 



Length t mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles, Cook's Isles, Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Phil. 

 Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Several examples found under stones on the inner reefs. It dif- 

 fers from D. pygvisea, Dkr., found at the former location, in its 

 more slender form, longer spire, and is more distinctly constricted 

 beneath the suture. 



Clathurella pulchella, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 33. 



Shell small, oblong ovate, solid, slightly shining, violaceous, or 

 pinky-red, with a narrow white band; spire moderate, sub-tur- 

 reted, convex in outline, apex sub-acute ; whorls nuclear 3, smooth, 

 normal whorls 5-6, convex, longitudinally ribbed, ribs rather 

 large, rounded, slightly oblique, 11-13 on the body whorl, crossed 

 by numerous spiral elevated lines ; suture deeply impressed ; aper- 

 ture elongate, narrow, slightly flexuous, nearly half the length of 

 the shell ; peristome thick, 5-6 toothed within ; sinus rounded ; 

 columella depressed, smooth. 



Length 5 mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A very beautiful species found lurking under stones on the 

 fringing reefs. It belongs to the same group with C. rugosa^ vio- 

 lacea and maculosa. 



Clathurella d^dalea, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 33. 



Shell elongate, solid, slightly gloss}^, j'ellowish-white, maculated 

 with small irregular chestnut-brown spots, mostly confined to the 

 ribs ; spire long, turreted, apex acute ; whorls embrj'onal 3, brown, 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



normal whorls 7, tabulate above, convex, last one produced into a 

 short open slightly recurved canal ; longitudinally ribbed, ribs 

 small, compressed, rounded, slightly oblique, 13-14 on the body 

 whorl, crossed by small, revolving elevated lines, forming granules 

 where they intersect the ril)3 ; aperture oblong, sub-rhomboid ; 

 posterior sinus very deep, ovate ; peristome strongly varicose 

 externally, rather acute, crenulate, and abbreviatel}' lyrate within ; 

 columella faintl}' rugose with oblique wrinkles, nearlj' vertical, 

 and together with the parietal region thinly callous. 



Length 8 mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare and beautiful species found on the outer reefs. 



Clathurella c^lata, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 34. 



Shell small, oblong, fusiform, rapidly tapering towards the base, 

 spire moderately elevated, apex acute ; whorls embryonal 2, brown, 

 normal whorls 6, rounded, last one produced into a short, slightly 

 recurved canal; longitudinally nodosel}- ribbed, 10 on the body 

 whorl, crossed by smaller revolving ridges, 3 on the penidtimate 

 whorls, 10-11 on the body, interstices scabrous with close, elevated 

 longitudinal stria}; suture deepl}' impressed; a])erture oblong, 

 narrow, sides nearl^'^ parallel, half the length of the shell ; pos- 

 terior sinus large, rounded ; peristome trenchant, obsoletely crenu- 

 late, with 5 stout teeth on its inner edge ; columella nearly verti- 

 cal, smooth ; color cinereous, stained with luteous, nodules whitish 

 and obsoletely lineated in the spiral grooves. 



Lensfth 6 mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A rare and beautifully sculptured species of which we found 

 two living specimens on tlie outer reefs. 



Clathurella infrasulcata, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 35. 



Shell solid, oblong, turroted, spire rather long, yellowish-gray ; 

 whorls 6-7, convex, roundl}' shouldered above, longitudinally 

 ribbed ; ribs rounded, 10 on the bod}' whorl, crossed b}' closely-set 

 small transverse ridges ; base obliquel}' sulcate, the grooves crossed 

 by the longitudinal ribs; canal short, broad truncate; aperture 

 oblong, sub-rhomboid, nearly one-third the length of the shell ; 

 peristome with a stout external rib, al)breviately lyrate along the 

 inner edge; posterior sinus large, deeper than broad; columella 

 smooth. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Length 7 mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A rare species remarkable for the deep sulcate base. 



Clathurella obesa, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 36. 



Shell oblong, fusiform, spire moderately elevated, turreted, apex 

 acute, base contracted, pale luteous; whorls T, convex, the last 

 one ventricose, tabulate above, longitudinally ribbed; ribs small, 

 prominent, rounded, 16 on the body whorl, crossed by numerous 

 small transverse ridges, of which there are five on the penultimate 

 whorl ; aperture elongate oblong, slightly flexuous, half the length 

 of the shell; the posterior sinus large, sub-ovate; peristome 

 faintly crenulate, labiate and eight-toothed within; columella 

 rugose with oblique ridges. 



Length 9 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species closely allied to C. lutea^ Pse., from which it 

 may be distinguished by its stouter ribs, more robust form, more 

 distinctly tabulated whorls, and longer aperture. 



Clathurella semilineata, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 37. 



Shell small, oblong, sub-fusiform, slightly shining, cinereous, 

 with four or five transverse brown lines on the upper whorls and 

 three near the base ; spire rather long, acute, base much contracted ; 

 nuclear whorls 3, wrinkled, brown, normal whorls 5-6, flatly con- 

 vex, longitudinally ribbed ; ribs rather stout, rounded, transversely 

 nodose, 12 on the body whorl, interstices with small transverse 

 ridges which form the nodules on the ribs ; aperture elongate ob- 

 long, narrow sides nearly parallel, aljout a third the length of the 

 shell ; posterior sinus large, rounded ; peristome with 6-7 teeth 

 on the inner edge. ' 



Length 5 mill. 



Hah. Samoa and Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We found ten examples of this pretty species under clumps of 

 coral on the outer reefs. Its most obvious character is the two 

 groups of lineations, which are constant. It belongs to the group 

 represented by C.felina, Hds. and C. violacea, Pse. 



Clathurella pinguis, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 38. 



Shell small, ovate, fusiform, solid, base contracted, spire short, 

 rose-red with a single revolving white band ; nuclear whorls 2, 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Avliite, smooth, normal five, rounded, longitudinally ribbed ; ribs 

 large, rounded, wider than their interstices, ten on tiie body whorl, 

 crossed by small revolving ridges, which form transverse nodules 

 in mounting over the ribs ; aperture elongate, linear, slightly 

 flexuous, about half the length of the shell ; posterior sinus large, 

 rounded; peristome thick, finely crenulate, slightly involute, the 

 inner margins with 5-6 closelj'-set teeth ; columella smooth. 



Length 4 mill. 



Hah. Samoa and Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species, of which we obtained a single example at 

 each of the two above localities. 



Clathurella pdnctifera, Garr., pi. 2, fig. 39. 



Shell small, elongate-oblong, thick, base contracted, spire long, 

 acute, sides convex, cinereous, dotted with light-brown, tlie dots 

 disposed in regular series on the ribs ; nuclear whorls 3, light- 

 brown, obliquely plicate-striated ; normal whorls 5-6, flatly convex, 

 longitndinally ribbed, ribs small, rounded, narrower than their 

 interstices, 10-11 on the body whorl, crossed by smaller transverse 

 ridges, four on the penultimate whorl ; aperture oblong, narrow, 

 a little more than a third the length of the shell ; posterior sinus 

 ratiier large, semicircular; peristome externally varicose, slightly 

 involute, crennlate, and the inner margin with six teeth ; columella 

 smooth, callous. 



Length 5 mill. 



Hah. Society, Samoa, and Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We obtained a few examples of this species on the outer reefs. 

 It belongs to the same group as C. pumila, violacea, and felin a, 

 which some of the European conchologists refer to the sub-genus 

 Crassispira^ of the genus Drillia. 



CiTHARA MELANOSTOMA, Garr. , pi. 2, fig. 40. 



Shell elongate-oblong, rather solid, base contracted, cinereous or 

 whitish, with a brown-black columella, and most generally with a 

 transverse row of linear dots between the ribs on the bod3'-whoil ; 

 spire long, turreted, sub-acute; whorls 5-6, obliquel>- tabulate 

 above, prominent at the angle, longitudinally ribbed ; ril)s large, 

 remote, compressed, descending from the suture, 5-6 on the body 

 whorl, intersi)aces concave, smooth ; aperture elongate-oblong, 

 nearly a third the length of the shell ; base produced into a short, 

 open, truncate canal, and the posterior sinus large, deep, semi-cir- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



cnlav ; peristome sharp, slightly involute, simple ; columella and 



parietal region smooth, callous. 

 Length 10 mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 

 We gathered about forty examples of this remarkable species 



on the sandy beaches at Kiva Island. It probably inhabits deep 



water. It may be easily known by its dark columella, simple 



lips, large sinus, and turreted spire. 



CiTHARA ABBREViATA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 41. 



Shell small, abbreviate, sub-rhomboidal, solid, white ; spire 

 short, pyramidal, outline flattened, apex sub-acute; whorls 7, flat, 

 the last very large, ventricose, depressed beneath the suture, sub- 

 angulated on the shoulder and rapidly tapering to the base ; sur- 

 face cancellated 1)}' small close longitudinal ribs and five transverse 

 raised lines ; aperture narrow, sub-elliptical, a little more than half 

 the length of the shell ; sinus semicircular; peristome trenchant, 

 stoutly ribbed externallj', and the inner margin callous ; columella 

 slightly concave, smooth, thinly callous. 



Length 5 mill. 



Hah. Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species. Its most obvious character is its short 

 subrhomboid contour, short body, and cancellated surface. 



Odostomia densecostata, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 42. 



Shell small, oblong, thin, sub-pellucid, somewhat glossy, cine- 

 reous ; spire long, gradually tapering from the body whorl, slightly 

 convex in outline, apex sub-acute ; whorls 7, convex, longitudinally 

 ribbed, ribs small, smooth, closely set, rounded, slightly constricted 

 next the suture ; interstices with closely-set transverse impressed 

 striaa ; suture deeply impressed ; aperture vertical, ovate, angular 

 above, about one-fourth the length of the shell; peristome thin ; 

 columella callous, arched, and the fold stout. 



Length 4 mill. 



Hah. Samoa and Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Not uncommon under stones on reefs. 



Odostomia exilis, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 43. 



Shell small, elongate subulate, fragile, pellucid, shining, white ; 

 spire long, gradually tapering from tlie body whorl, apex sul)- 

 acute ; whorls 6-8, convex, longitudinally finely striated ; suture 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



well impressed ; aperture sub-vertical, ovate, one-fourth the length 

 of the sliell ; peristome acute; columella fold small. 

 Length 4 mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Xat. Sciences.) 

 A very delicate species of which we found seven examples in 

 beach sand. It is closely allied to 0. striata^ Pse., but ditiers in 

 its smaller size, and absence of the fine spiral strice. 



Odostomia deksestriata, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 44. 



Shell elongate, subulate, thin, pellucid, shining, white; spire 

 very long, graduallj- tapering, apex acute; whorls 11, flatly con- 

 vex, spirally striated with fine crowded raised lines, crossed by 

 more delicate lines of growth ; suture impressed ; aperture sub- 

 vertical, sub-ovate, nearly one-sixth the length of the shell ; peri- 

 stome thin, sinuous, slightly expanded at the base ; columella 

 thinly callous, slightly reflexed, and the plait rather small. 



Length 9 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Xat. Sciences.) 



An elegant species of which we found several examples on 

 weedy ground in the lower region of the littoral zone. It also 

 occurs at the Samoa Islands. The general aspect of the shell is 

 much like 0. debilis, Pse., which has a less number of whorls, and 

 differs in color. 



Odostomia oryza, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 45. 



Shell small, elongate-ovate, thin, smooth, gloss}", white ; spire 

 moderatel}^ elevated, convex in outline, apex obtuse; whorls T, 

 flatly convex ; suture faintly impressed, broadly margined be- 

 neath ; aperture acutely ovate, one-fourth the length of the shell ; 

 peristome simple; columella concave, slightly callous, and the plait 

 rather small. 



Length 3^ mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Only two specimens obtained from beach sand at Kiva Island. 



Odostomia sulcata, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 46. 



Shell rather solid, elongate, subulate, sub-pellucid, shining, 

 white ; spire verj' long, sides flattened in outline, base rimate ; 

 whorls 12? (apex fractured; whorls remaining 10) plain, the last 

 one short, rounded, all verticall}' grooved, grooves rather large, 

 closely set, concave, wider than their interstices, gradually dis- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



appearing on the back of the body whorl ; suture deeply im- 

 pressed; aperture ovate, slightly oblique ; peristome rather sharp, 

 straight, somewhat thickened at the base; columella concave, 

 reflexed, with a stout plait, and together with the parietal regiou 

 callous. 



Length 8j mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



One example found perfect except loss of apex. The sulcations 

 do not quite extend to the sutural line, nor descend more than 

 half way down the length of the bod}' whorl. The whorls are 

 very short, and appear as if pressed into each other from above. 



Odostomia a^ianda, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 47. 



Shell small, elongate-oblong, rather thin, sub-pellucid, some- 

 what shining, cinereous ; spire long, gradually' tapering from the 

 body whorl, apex obtuse ; whorls 1, convex, longitudinally ribbed, 

 ribs small, smooth, rounded, constricted beneath the suture, form- 

 ing a row of granules ; interstices concave, the same width as the 

 ribs, and transversely impressl}' striated ; suture deeply impressed 

 and crenulate; aperture sub-ovate, acutely angular above, nearly 

 a fourth the length of shell ; peristome thin, straight ; columella 

 simple. 



Length 3 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



One perfect example found on weedy ground in the middle 

 region of the littoral zone. It is well characterized by its delicate 

 sculpturing and the absence of the usual collumella fold. The 

 last character, though negative, will scared}^ remove it from the 

 genus, as the nuclear whorls are sinistral. It is closel}^ allied to 

 0. devse-coatafo, Nob., but is much smaller, more slender, the spire 

 longer, and the ribs more decidedly constricted beneath the 

 suture. 



Odostomia pulchra, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 48. 



Shell elongate, slender, thin, slightly shining, white; spire long, 

 turreted, regularh' tapering from the bodj' whorl, apex obtuse, 

 base slightly produced; whorls t, convex, shouldered above, lon- 

 gitudinally ribbed; ribs small, remote, angularly rounded, nar- 

 rower than their interstices, which latter are concave, minutel}'' 

 and closely ridged transversely; suture deeply impressed ; aper- 

 ture oblong oval, slightly oblique, nearly a fifth the length of the 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



shell ; peristome thin ; columella arched, slightly callous, and the 

 plait small and very oblique. 



Lengtli 4^ mill, 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A single perfect and an immature example found washed up on 

 the sands. It may be distinguished b}' its shouldered whorls, dis- 

 tant ribs, and hyaline structure. 



Odostomia crystallina, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 49. 



Shell elongate, subulate, rather thick, sub-pellucid, smooth, 

 shining white; spire long, outlines slightly convex, apex acute; 

 whorls 11-12, nearly plain, last one short, rounded, cancellated 

 with microscopical longitudinal and transverse strife ; suture im- 

 pressed ; aperture vertical, broad ovate, acutel}^ angular above, 

 rounded below, about one-fifth the length of the shell ; peristome 

 thin, simple ; columella arched, callous, and the plait stout. 



Length 7^ mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Two perfect examples found on a sandy mud-flat. Deep in the 

 throat may be observed several exceedingly delicate revolving 

 lamellae, which, as seen through the sub-pellucid shell, look like 

 engraved lines. 



Odostomia lutea, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 50. 



Shell elongate, subulate, smooth ; shining, luteous-yellow ; spire 

 long, the upper half tapering more rapidlj' than the lower; apex 

 acute ; whorls 9-10, flatly convex, last one sub-angulate near the 

 base, obsoletelj^ striated by lines of growth ; suture impressed and 

 margined beneath ; aperture widely ovate, about one-fuurth the 

 length of the shell ; peristome thin, nearly straight, obsoletely 

 angulated at the base; columella slightly callous, somewhat re- 

 flexed so as to form a slight umbilical fissure, and distinctlj' 

 plaited. 



Length Y mill. 



Ilah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Three examples found on a sandj' mud-flat. 



Odostomia obeliscus, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 51. 



Shell elongate, subulate, thin, hyaline, white ; spire long, flat- 

 tened in outline, apex acute; whorls 10, plano-convex, tiie last 

 one short, rounded, decussated bj' microscopical longitudinal 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 227 



lines and transverse impressed strioe ; suture linear, margined; 

 aperture broad 1}^ ovate, vertical, acutely angular above, nearlj- a 

 fourth the length of the shell ; peristome sharp, slightly sinuous ; 

 columella thinly callous, slightly concave, somewhat reflexed, and 

 the plait rather small. 



Length fi^ mill, 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



"We found three examples of this thin, hyaline species on weedy 

 ground in the lower i*egion of the littoral zone. 



Odostomia vitkea, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 52. 



Shell elongate, subulate, thin, vitreous, smooth, shining, pellucid, 

 white; spire ver}^ long, regularly tapering from the body whorl, 

 apex acute, base slightl}' produced, whorls 11, nearly plain ; last 

 one rounded, faintly striated hy lines of growth ; suture linear 

 and rather widely margined beneath ; aperture, ovate, acutely 

 angular above, with revolving thin lamellae deep in the throat, 

 which, as seen through the transparent shell appear like revolving 

 lines; peristome thin, straight, slightly expanded at the base; 

 columella concave, callous, slightly reflexed, forming a small um- 

 bilical fissure, and the spiral fold stout ; parietal region thinly cal- 

 lous. 



Length H mill. 



JHab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Onl}'' a solitary specimen found ; but quite distinct from 0. 

 obeliscus, Nob., which it resembles. The latter has no internal 

 spiral lamellae, and is impressly striated transversely. 



Odostomia unilineata, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 53. 



Shell slender, elongate, .subulate, smooth, shining, sub-pellucid, 

 white, with a revolving yellowish-browu line just above the suture ; 

 spire very long, c^'lindrically tapering ; whorls 10-11 ? (apex frac- 

 tured ; whorls remaining 9) plano-convex, last one slightly pro- 

 duced at the base, under the lens rudely striated with lines of 

 growth; suture deeply imjjressed; aperture oblique, ovate, acutely 

 angular above, lyrate within, lyrje very delicate, several in number, 

 revolving in the interior of the shell ; peristome thin, simple ; co- 

 lumella concave, slightly reflexed, and the revolving fold stout. 



Length 10^ mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



Only a single example of this fine species was found. It may 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



be compared with 0. aciculina, Sowr., from New Caledonia. As 

 compared with the description and figure our shell is longer, more 

 slender, the spire more plain in outline, the base less produced, 

 and has one line less. 



Odostomia cuspid at a, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 54. 



Shell elongate, subulate, slender, smooth, shining, creamy-white, 

 with a microscopical articulate darker line on the middle of the 

 whorls; spire very long, cylindrically tapering, apex obtuse; 

 whorls 13-15, plano-convex, the last one stout, rounded, rudely 

 striated by lines of growth ; suture deeply impressed ; aperture 

 broadly ovate, angulate above, about one-seventh the length of the 

 shell ; deep in the throat maj' be seen several revolving fine lamellae ; 

 peristome thin, slightlj'^ expanded at the base ; columella callous, 

 reflexed so as to form a slight umbilical fissure, and the spiral fold 

 stout. 



Length 11 mill. 



Hab. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We found three perfect examples of tliis fine species on weedj'' 

 ground in the middle region of the littoral zone. 



Genus RISSOPSIS, Garr. 



Shell small, thin, elongate, C3dindrical; apex truncate ; aperture 

 sub-ovate, angular above, entire ; peristome rather thin, somewhat 

 expanded ; columella oblique, arched. 



Rissopsis TYPiCA, Garr. pi, 3, fig. 55. 



Shell small, elongate,' slender, thin, h3'aline, glossy, smooth, 

 white ; spire long, cylindrical, slightly tapering, sides nearly plain, 

 apex truncate ; whorls G, flat ; suture faintl}' impressed, margined ; 

 aperture vertical, ovate-triangular, nearl}' one-third the length of 

 the shell; peristome rather thin, sinuous, somewhat expanded; 

 columella oljliquelj^ arched, slightly callous. 



Length 10 mill. 



Ilab. Yiti and Samoa Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We found three specimens of this delicate transparent shell on 

 the outer reefs. 



Obeliscds hyalinus, Garr. pi. 3, fig. 56. 



Shell small, elongate-oblong, sub-cylindrical, thin, smooth, hya- 

 line, white; spire long, turreted, the upper whorls tapering more 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



rapidly than the lower, apex acute, base slightly produced ; whorls 

 9, convex, the last one rounded, under the lens minutely striated 

 by lines of growth and very fine close revolving impressed lines ; 

 suture deeply impressed and margined beneath ; aperture slightly 

 oblique, rhomboid-luniform, about one-third the length of the shell ; 

 peristome rather thin, straight ; columella slightly callous, with 

 two oblique plaits. 

 Length 10 mill. 



Hab. Paumotus and Society Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 

 A very rare species of which we found a single example at each 

 of the above-mentioned locations. 



Nassa anthracina, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 57. 



Shell small, oblong-ovate, solid, shining, black or deep blackish- 

 brown, with a transverse light-brown line on the upper lialf of the 

 body whorl ; spire rather long, apex sub-acute ; whorls embryonal 

 3, smooth, amber color, normal whorls 4-5, convex, with fine 

 revolving impressed lines ; aperture sub-oval, little more than one- 

 third the length of the shell; peristome rather thick, straight, 

 externally varicose, inner margin with 5-6 oblong teeth ; columella 

 arched, callous, with a smajl oblique plait next to the basal 

 sinus ; parietal region with a small ridge. 



Length t mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



We found only two examples of this species, both obtained on 

 weedy bottom near low-w^ater mark. The pale line is most con- 

 spicuous in the aperture. 







Daphnella FUSiFORMis, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 58. 



Shell oblong, fusiform, rather solid, white, faintly tinged with 

 yellowish-brown ; spire acutel}' conical, half the length of the 

 shell; whorls embryonal 3, rugose, brownish-horn color; normal 

 whorls 6, convexly angular, last one very large, swollen, much 

 contracted and produced at the base; longitudinally ribbed, ribs 

 small, closely set, rounded, becoming obsolete on the body whorl, 

 which latter exhibits several periodical varices ; whole surface 

 with numerous small unequal-sized, more or less crenulate revolv- 

 ing ridges ; aperture ellipticall}^ oval, half the length of the shell ; 

 peristome thick, finely crenulate, arched, sinus small; columella 

 smooth and polished. 



Length 8 mill. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Hah. Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species, remarkable for its fusiform outline, and 

 attenuated base. 



Daphnella millegrana, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 59. 



Shell elongate-oblong, sub-fusiform, moderately thick, slightly 

 shining, white with short transverse ferruginous lines and dots; 

 spire rather long, conical, convex in outline, apex sub-acute ; 

 whorls embryonal 3, smooth, dark corneous, whorls normal 5, con- 

 vex, last one large, contracted at the base ; whole surface decus- 

 sated b}^ crowded small longitudinal and spiral elevated lines, 

 granulated at their points of intersection ; aperture large, ellipti- 

 cally oblong, contracted above, a little more than half the length 

 of the shell ; peristome moderately thick, delicately crenulate, and 

 the sinus large and deep ; columella concave. 



Length 9 mill. 



Hah. Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare and beautiful species characterized b}' its narrow 

 eliptical form and delicate clathrate sculpturing. 



Daphnella vitrea, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 60. 



Shell small, elongate, thin, vitreous, sub-pellucid, shining, white ; 

 spire long, turreted, acutely conical, apex acute ; whorls embrj'onal 

 3, rugose, brownish, normal whorls 8, convex, angulately shoul- 

 dered above, last one contracted at the base into a short open 

 canal ; whole surface with fine rugose elevated spiral lines, most 

 conspicuous on the upper whorls, which are longitudinall}' ribbed ; 

 each whorl with two periodical varices ; aperture oblong, oval, 

 about a third the length of the shell ; peristome rather sharp, 

 finel}' crenulate, margined externall}^ bj'^ a small varix; columella 

 simple ; posterior sinus large and very deep. 



Length 8 mill. 



Hah. Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Garrett.) 



A very rare species well characterized by its vitreous structure, 

 revolving lines, and I'emote varices. It belongs to the same group 

 as D. Boholensis and lactea. 



Daphnella tessellata, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 61. 



Shell elongate, sub-fusiform, rather thin, slightly shining, white, 

 tessellated with small sub-quadrangular ferruginous spots dis- 

 posed in transverse rows, 3 on the bodj- and 1 on each whorl of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



the spire ; spire moderatel}'^ elevated, acutely conical ; whorls em- 

 brj^oual 3, light-brown, wrinkled, normal whorls 4-5, convex, last 

 one rather long, tapering at the base ; whole surface decussated 

 by fine crowded longitudinal and transverse elevated lines, which 

 are minutel}'' granulated at their points of intersection ; aperture 

 narrow elliptical, nearly half the length of the shell ; sinus large 

 and deep ; peristome rather thick, finely crenulate, and slightl}'' 

 sinuous near the base; columella smooth, nearly vertical. 

 Length 10 mill. 



Hah. Paumotus Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Scinccs.) 

 We found about a dozen examples of this species washed up on 

 the beaches, all of which have the peculiar tessellations. In shape 

 and sculpturing it closely resembles D. millegrana, but is more 

 contracted at the base. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF GONIODORIS. 

 BY ANDREW GARRETT. 

 GoNiODOKis Trtoni, Garr., pi. 4. 



Animal oblong, smooth, soft, convex on the dorsal region, and 

 the bod^' deep. The mantle is narrow, rounded and somewhat di- 

 lated in front, acutely rounded posteriorly, margins thin and 

 slightly gashed. The dorsal tentacles, which issue from simple 

 cavities, are rather distant from each other, oblong, sub-trigonal 

 in shape, pointed and very finely lamellated. The branchial star 

 is rather large, wider than the mantle, and is composed of twent}'- 

 four plumes wliicli are more or less forked. Anal tube prominent. 

 Labial appendages small and conical. The large foot is elongate, 

 and projects far behind the mantle. 



Color creamy-white, the mantle and foot margined with violet, 

 and, together with the sides of the body, decorated with a few small, 

 scattered, roundish, deep black ocellii, encircled with opaque white 

 rings which are shaded off with light umber. The dorsal tentacles 

 are light umber, gradually' passing into violet above, and the la- 

 mellae, together with an anterior and posterior vertical line, white. 

 The branchial plumes are pale tawny flesh, edged with light umber, 

 and the tips violet. 



Length 71 mill. 



Hah. Society Isles. (]\rus. Godeffroy, namburg.") 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF LAND SHELLS INHABITING 

 THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS. 



BY ANDREW GARRETT. 



PupiNA ViTiENSis, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 62. 



Shell imperforate, oblong-ovate, moderately thick, sub-translu- 

 cent, smooth, polished, shining, corneous; spire rather tumid, 

 acutely rounded at the apex ; suture margined ; whorls G, slightly 

 convex, right side more flattened than the left, penultimate equal 

 in size to the preceding 4 whorls ; aperture slightly oblique, bica- 

 naliculate, semicircular ; peristome whitish, thickened, somewhat 

 expanded below ; columella and parietal region concave, margined 

 by an arched rib, the former terminating in a prominent rounded 

 tongue. 



Length Y mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A rare species found among decayed vegetation in damp forests 

 at Gomea Island, where it is peculiar. It is the lirst recorded 

 species from the Viti group. 



Helicina Gomeaensis, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 63. 



Shell depressly trochiform, thin, sub-pellucid, somewhat glossy, 

 under a lens faint, rude, revolving, impressed striae and slight radi- 

 ating lines of growth ; color light straw-yellow, rarely with two 

 broad brownish-red spiral bands ; spire broadl_y conical, apex 

 obtuse ; whorls 5, convex, last one slightly angular at the peri- 

 phery, not deflected in front; basal callus thin, granulate ; suture 

 linearly impressed; aperture diagonal, sub-triangular luniform, 

 white within ; peristome slightlj' labiate, white, under a lens granu- 

 late, flatly expanded, somewhat sinuous above, and angular at its 

 junction with the columella. 



Diam., greatest 10^, height 8 mill. 



Hah. Gomea I., Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Not uncommon on the foliage of bushes at the above-mentioned 

 island, where it is peculiar. 



PiTYS Maupiensis, Garr., pi. 8, fig. 64. 



Shell umbilicate, sub-discoid, thin, sub-pelliicid, elevately stri- 

 ated, striffi crowded, finer beneath, brownish, more or less tessel- 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lated with dark-brown, and sometimes tlie body adorned with 

 zigzag stripes ; spire convex, apex flat ; suture rather deeply im- 

 pressed ; whorls 6^, rounded, regularly and slowly increasing, the 

 last one slanting from the shoulder towards the base ; umbilicus 

 small, but deep, about one-fifth the greatest diameter of the shell ; 

 aperture vertical, narrow, luniform, fauces with four, columella 

 with one, and the parietal region with three lamellae; peristome 

 thin, simple. 



Diam. 3, height 1^ mill. 



Hah. Maupiti I., Society Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Xat. Sciences.) 

 A common species found under deca3'ed wood. It belongs to 

 the same group as P. modicella and P. coy\lorta. 



PiTYS TANEiE, Garr.. pi. 3, fig. 65. 



Shell umbilicate, discoid, thin, snb-pellucid, brownish-horn 

 color, tessellated and rayed with deep-brown, plicately ribbed; 

 ribs small, oblique, arcuatelj' curved, somewhat irregular, rather 

 distant, finer and more crowded beneath ; spire convex, flattened 

 at the apex ; whorls Gi, convex, slowly and regularly increasing, 

 slightly sulcate next the suture, last one acutel}' carinate, flat- 

 tened above, not descending in front, convex beneath, angular at 

 the umbilicus ; suture well impressed ; umbilicus large, perspec- 

 tive, freely showing the whorls, a little more than a third the 

 diameter of the shell ; aperture oblique, rhomboid-lunate, wider 

 than high; parietal region with a small revolving lamella; peris- 

 tome thin, simple. 



Diam. 4^, height H mill. 



Hah. Maupiti I., Society Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A verj' abundant species found on the ground on the sides of 

 wooded hills. It belongs to the same group as P.ficta^fahrefacta.i 

 and Huahinensis. 



PiTYS ZEBRiNA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 66. 



Shell umbilicate, sub-discoid, thin, pullucid, shining, whitish, 

 corneous, adorned with brown tessellations on the spire, and flexu- 

 ous stripes on the body whorl ; spire depressly convex, apex flat- 

 tened ; whorls 5^, convex, slowly and regularly increasing, last 

 one not descending in front, rounded, obliquely ribbed ; ribs mem- 

 branous, rather distant, interstices under the lens clearl}- elevately 

 striated ; suture deeply impressed ; umbilicus small, pervious, one- 

 sixth the greatest diameter of the shell ; aperture sub-vertical. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



roundly luniforni, wider than high, fiiuces with three, and the 

 parietal region with two lamellre; peristome thin, simple. 



Diam. 4, height 1^ mill. 



Hah. Rarotonga I., Cook's Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. 

 Sciences.) 



A beautiful species, well characterized by its conspicuous spots 

 and stripes on a pale ground, membranous ribs and fine lamelte. 

 It belongs to the same group as P. modicella, contorta^ and multi- 

 lamellata. 



PiTYS UNiLAMELLATA, Garr., pi. 3, fig. G7. 



Shell umbilicate, sub-discoid, thin, corneous, tessellated, and 

 rayed with brown, plicately ribbed, ribs compressed, rather closely 

 set, regular, oblique, flexuous, finer and more crowded beneath ; 

 spire depressl^'' convex, apex prominent ; whorls 5, convex, slowly 

 and regularl}'- increasing, last one not descending in front, obtusely 

 sub-angular on the periphery, and more distinctly so on the um- 

 bilical region ; suture channelled ; umbilicus large, freely exposing 

 the whorls, nearly one-third the greatest diameter of the shell; 

 aperture oblique, somewhat rhomboid luniform, wider than deep ; 

 parietal region with a single small lamella ; peristome thin, simple. 



Diam., greatest 4^, height 2 mill. 



Hah. Rarotonga I., Cook's Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. N"at. 

 Sciences.) 



A rare species found under decayed vegetation in mountain 

 ravines. 



Plecotkema ttjreita, Garr. pi, 3, fig. 68. 



Shell sub-perforate, solid, more or less acutely ovate, turreted, 

 transversely finely ridged, ridges closely set, granulated, interstices 

 crossed by raised lines, corneous with white lips ; spire sub-acute, 

 turreted, conical ; whorls *7-8, flat, tabulate above, last one large, 

 ovate-globose, sulcate next the suture, angular at the base ; aper- 

 ture oblique, narrow, oblong, contracted ; peristome with a large 

 sub-marginal external varix, rather thin, slightly expanded, an- 

 gular above, then obliquely descending towards the base, where it 

 is rounded and continuous with the labiate callosity on the colu- 

 mella and parietal region ; inner margin labiate, with a median 

 tubercle ; columella with a transverse fold, a second one on the 

 parietal region, and a tubercle above. 



Length 4i mill. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Xnt. Sciences.) 

 This singular species, of which we obtained about fifty exam- 

 ples, was found lurking under stones a little below high-water 

 mark, on the N. E. end of Tavinni Island. 



Plecotrema coxsobkina, Garr., \A. 3, fig. 69. 



Shell small, sub-perforate, ovate, solid, brownish with an ob- 

 scure paler zone; spire convexly conical, about half the length 

 of the shell, apex sub-acute; whorls T, flatl}- convex, the4ast one 

 large, rounded, deflected in front, transversely sulcate, sulci deep, 

 the same width as the intervening ridges, which latter are slightly 

 granulose, and about twenty in the body whorl ; aperture small, 

 oblong, contracted, oblique ; peristome thick, externally varicose, 

 labiate within, and furnished with two stout tubercular teeth on 

 the middle of the lip ; columella slightly expanded, with an oblique 

 transverse compressed fold ; parietal region glazed, bidentate, the 

 lower tooth bifurcate. 



Length 3 mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad Nat. Sciences.) 



Not uncommon under stones at high-water mark. In color it 

 closely resembles P. mordax, Dohrn., but is not so robust as that 

 species. It is more closely allied to P. hij'sula, Nobis, but is less 

 than half as large, differs in color, and is never hirsute like the 

 latter. 



Pedipes subglobosus, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 70. 



Shell imperforate, small, moderately thick, sub-globose, 3'el- 

 lowish-horn color, transversely finely ridged; ridges about twice 

 the width of their interstices, slightl}' scabrous with lines of 

 groAvth ; spire short, abbreviatel}' conical ; Avhorls 5, strongly 

 convex, slightl}'' angular, last one sub-globose, becoming angular 

 above as it nears the peristome, base rounded ; aperture oblique 

 oblong; peristome sharp, finely crenulate, white, labiate within, 

 armed with a stout sub-median tubercle, and a sinus above ; colu- 

 mella white, vertical, flattened, with two transverse white com. 

 pressed folds the upper the larger; parietal region tiiinly glazed 

 and furnished with a large transverse compressed white fold. 



Diam., greatest 4i, height 3 mill. 



Hah. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



Only eight specimens were found. They were obtained from 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



under stones in the upper region of tlie littoral zone, at the island 

 of Tanthala. 



Nanina Kivaensis, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 71. 



Shell small, imperforate, depressl}' globose, thin, pellucid, smooth, 

 gloss}', yellowish corneous; spire rounded, apex obtuse; suture 

 margined ; whorls 5, flatly convex, slowly and regularly increasing, 

 last one rounded, not descending in front, base convex ; aperture 

 oblique, -luniform ; peristome thin, simple, columella white, cal- 

 lous, and furnished with a prominent twisted fold. 



Diam., greatest 4, height 5 mill. 



Hah. Viti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A rare species found among decayed vegetation in the mountain 

 forests of Kiva Isl. Its most obvious character is its dome-like 

 spire and strong columella fold. 



Helix (TKOcnoiORPHA) Merzianoides, Garr., pi. 3, fig. 72. 



Shell umbilicate, sub-lenticular, rather thin, sub-translucent, 

 gloss}'' beneath, chestnut-brown, mottled with radiating dashes of 

 corneous, beneath honey-j^ellow becoming brown towards the mar- 

 gin ; spire obtuse, convex ; whorls 6, slightly convex, obliquely 

 striated, regularly and slowly increasing, last one not descending 

 in front, acutely carinate on the periphery, keel whitish; base con- 

 vex ; suture slightly margined ; umbilicus moderate, perspective, 

 freely exposing the wdiorls, about one-fifth the greatest diameter 

 of the shell ; aperture diagonal, sub-rhomboid luniform ; peristome 

 acute above, and slightly thickened towards the base. 



Diam., greatest 22, height 9 mill. 



Hob. Yiti Isles. (Coll. Phil. Acad. Nat. Sciences.) 



A rare species peculiar to the island of Yanna Levu, where it 

 lives on the trunks of trees in damp forests. It is ver}'' closely 

 allied to H. Merziana^ Pfr., inhabiting the Solomon Islands? 

 That species has the outer lip sinuous, more thickened and sliglitl}' 

 declivous above. It is also banded on the lower surface, and the 

 termination of the body whorl is somewhat dilated. Above, the 

 color and markings are quite similar in the two species. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW VARIETY OF. BTJTEO. 

 BY BERNARD A. IIOOPES. 



BuTEO BOREALis, Variety icriderii. PI. 5. 



Male. Bill strong, wide at the base, much curved, blue, darker 

 towards the tip, edges of the upper mandible lobed. Cere blue and 

 large. Nostrils large and roundish. Entire head and nape pure 

 "white, with the exception of a few feathers on each side of the 

 forehead at the base of the upper mandible, which are tipped with 

 dark-brown. Lores white, covered with bristl}' hairs, a faint super- 

 ciliar}' line of an ochreous tint extends beyond the ej'es. 



Cheeks white, with several lines of feathers, uarrowh' tipped 

 with dark-brown, extending down the sides of the neck and a 

 short distance under the wings. Back brown, largel}^ spotted with 

 white, which is the prevailing color of the base of the feathers, 

 some of them are edged with yellowish-brown ; many of the 

 feathers on the upper part of the back are arrow-shaped, or 

 pointed, faintly edged with white. 



Wings long and wide, of the prevailing color of the back, with 

 lighter tints on the shoulders ; the white of the under side of the 

 wings extending over the edges. 



Primaries dark, first quill shortest, third, fourth, and fifth nearly 

 of a size (fourth rather the longest), of an ash}^ tint on the outer 

 edges, the inner quills white, transversely barred with l)rown. 

 Secondaries darker, similarlj- marked. Hump the same color as 

 the back, feathers edged with rufous and white. Upper tail-coverts 

 white. 



Tail white, with an ochreous tint, darker towards the ends of 

 the two middle feathers, banded with eleven irregular transverse 

 bars of brown, the feathers rounded, or slightly i^ointed and 

 tipped with white. 



Throat, breast, and entire under parts pure white, inside of 

 wings the same, first five quills edged with bluish-ash, inner webs 

 largel}- white and strongly sinuated. A few sagittate spots of 

 brown appear on the flanks and abdomen ; tibial feathers long, 

 having a very faint yellowish tinge. Under tail-coverts white, 

 almost imperceptibly barred with faint lines, inside of tail-feathers 

 white, the bars on the outside faintly showing through. Tarsus 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 239 



ead-color, feathered in front about half way below the joint, pro- 

 tected beneath by ten large transverse scales. Toes dark lead- 

 color, large. Claws black, and strong. 



The female does not differ much from the male in the general 

 appearance of the plumage, is considerably larger, as usual with 

 the birds of prey. The back is rather lighter brown, the white 

 spots larger. 



Tail darker, more of an umber tint on the middle feathers, which 

 are edged and tipped with white. The forehead is white, but the 

 feathers of the head and neck are tipped with small lanceolate 

 spots of brown. Under parts entirely white, with fewer spots on 

 the flanks than the male, the tarsi and feet more robust, and of a 

 similar color. 



Dimensions. Male, total length 20^ inches, tail 9 inches. Female, total 

 length 22h inches, tail 9|^ inches. 



The above description is made from two specimens, male and 

 female, collected in Winnebago Count}^, Iowa, In- Mr. John Krider 

 of Philadelphia, in September, 1872, and carefully prepared by 

 that gentleman. 



He mentioned having seen several others, and described them 

 as having tlie habits and manner of flight common to the buzzard 

 family, and, from their being noticed in the autumn, were possibly 

 miorating from more northern breeding-grounds. During a pre- 

 vious visit to the same locality, in 1871, he saw a specimen 

 evidently similar to these, but was unable to secure it. Being 

 informed by residents of the country that the appearance of a 

 " wdiite hawk" there was not an unusual occurrence, heTelt con- 

 fident of ultimately procuring one, and has not been disappointed. 



Being convinced that it is undescribed, I have named it in 

 honor of the veteran naturalist to whom we are indebted for the 

 discovery. 



Spec, in Mus. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia^ 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON THE LINGUAL DENTITION AND JAW OF CERTAIN TERRESTRIAL 

 PULMONATA FROM THE UNITED STATES, WITH REMARKS ON THEIR 

 SYSTEMATIC VALUE. 



BY THOMAS BLAND AND W. G. BINNEY. 



The character of the jaw and lingual dentition of the various 

 genera and subgenei'a of our land shells is now so well known, 

 and apparently so constant, that we have not thought it necessary 

 to give full descriptions in each case. We simply refer to a pub- 

 lished description or figure under each genus or subgenus, unless 

 some unusual feature has been observed. The number of ribs 

 npon the jaw is given approximately when there is a difficulty in 

 deciding whether certain stages of thickening of the material of 

 the jaw shall be counted as rudimentary ribs or not. 



Macrocyclis Durakti, Newcomb. 



Los Angeles, California, Mr. Henry Hemphill. 



On examining the lingual membrane, we find it does not agree 

 with that of Hyalina or Zonites, but with that of Macrocyclis 

 Vancouver ensis, sportella and concava. The species must there- 

 fore be recognized as a Ilacrocyclis. 



The jaw was injured in extraction and imperfectly^ examined. 

 It seems, however, to have the usual characteristics of the genus. 



7 7 * 



LiMAX CAMPESTRis, Biiiiiey. 

 New Jersey, W. G. Biuney. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus. 



Zonites limatulus, Ward. 



Near Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. A. G. Wetherby. 



Tlie species has tlie longitudinal furrows along the side, above 

 the foot, and the caudal mucus slit, as in Zonites siq^pressus^ 

 (sec our fig. 524 on p. 292 of Land and Fresh-water Shells of N. 

 A., L) In two individuals examined we found the sac and dart 

 as figured by Leidy in Z. ligerus (Terr. j\Ioll., I, pi. xii. fig. 3). 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus. 



ViTRiNA Pfeifferi, Xcwcomb. 



Lake Tahoe, California, Dr. J. G. Cooper. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in tlie genus (see our fig. 

 21, 22, on p. 26, 1. c). About ten lateral teeth. Marginals bluntly 

 bifid as usual. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 241 



VlTRINA EXILIS, Morel. 



Petropaulouski, W. 11. Dall. The species is also found in 

 Alaska. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus, the former 

 with ends somewhat recurved as in our figure of Zonites arhoreus 

 (1. c. p. 33). About seven lateral teeth. 



Helix MooREANA, W. G. Binney. {Polycjyra.) 



Bosque County, Texas. Mr. Hugo W. Ericsson. 



Jaw^ with about fifteen, adjoining, broad ribs, denticnlating 

 either margin. 



Lingual membrane as in Pohjgyra} 



Helix Hazardi, Bland. {Polygyra.) 



Munroe Co., Tennessee, Miss Annie E. Law. 



Jaw as usual in Polygyra, ribs adjoining, stout, denticulating 

 either margin. 



Lingual membrane as in H. auriculata (see our fig. 1. c). 



Helix auriforjiis, Bland. (Polygym.) 

 Savannah, Georgia. 



Jaw with ribs as usual in the subgenus see last species. 

 Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus. (See H. Ilooreana, 

 above.) 



Helix hirsuta, Say. (Stenotrema.) 

 New Jersc}', T. Bland. 



Jaw as usual in the subgenus.^ Lingual membrane already de- 

 scribed by us. (1. c. p. 119, fig. 197.) 



Helix spinosa, Lea. (Stenotrema.) 



Philadelphia, Munroe Co., Tenn. Miss Annie E. Law. 



Jaw as usual in Stenotrema.^ 



Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus.^ 



Helix EuGELi, Shuttleworth. (,Tviodopsis.) 



Philadelphia, Munroe Co., Tenn. Miss Annie E. Law. 



' See our figures 1. c. p. 87 and 93. 



2 The jaw in Stenotrema is arcuate, ends blunt, anterior surface with 

 crowded, broad ribs, denticulating either margin. See our figure of the 

 jaw of //. monodon, 1. c. p. 122, fig. 204. For lingual membrane, see fig. 

 205. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Jaw with about ten ribs ; as usual in the subgenus.' 

 Linijual dentition as usual.* 



Helix FALLAx, Say. (Triodopsis.) 



Philadelphia, Munroe Co., Tenn. Miss Annie E. Law. 



Lingual membrane and jaw as usual in Triodopsis,^ the latter 

 with about fourteen ribs. 



Helix tkidextata, Saj'. (Triodopsis.) 

 Same locality as last. 



Jaw as usual in the subgenus.' 



Lingual membrane already figured by us. (1. c. fig. 220, p. 130.) 



Helix Hopetonensis, Shuttleworth. ( Triodopsis. ) 

 Charleston, S. C. Mr. W. G. Mazyck. 



Jaw Avith over ten ribs ; as usual in the subgenus.' 

 Lingual membrane as usual. 



Helix dentifera, Binney. {Mesodon.) 



Mohawk, New York. Dr. James Lewis. 



Jaw with fourteen ribs ; as usual in the subgenus. - 

 Lingual membrane as usual.^ The marginal teeth remind us of 

 those of Helix thyroides (I. c. p. 148, fig. 252), but the inner den- 

 ticle is more obtusely pointed. The figure referred to is liable to 

 mislead. The marginals are subquadi-ate (not aculeate), with one 

 long, oblique, sharply pointed denticle, much more produced than 

 usual in the genus. 



Helix RoisMERi, Pfr, (}fesodo)i.) 



Bosque Co., Texas. Mr. Hugo W. Ericsson. 



Animal externally as in H. thyroides, dentifera, etc. 

 Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus,^ the former 

 with over seven ribs. 



Helix elevata, Say. {Mesodon.) 



Philadelphia, Munroe Co., Tenn. Miss Annie E. Law. 



' lu Triodopsis the jaw is arcuate, ends bhnit, anterior surface with 

 stout, adjohiing ribs, Avhicli denticulate eitlier margin. See our fi^. 214, p. 

 127, 1. c. For lingual dentition, see fig. 21.'5. 



2 In Mesodon the jaw is arcuate, cuds blunt; anterior surface with stout, 

 separated ribs, denticulating either margin. Sec our fig. 231, on p. 137, 

 1. c. The lingual dentition is figured on p. 138, fig. 232. The central and 

 lateral teeth are obtuse, short, stout, with obsolete side denticles to the re- 

 flected cusps. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



Lingual membrane ^ud jaw as usual iu the subgenus,' the latter 

 with over twelve ribs. 

 Helix germana, Gould. {Mesodon.) 



California, Mr. Henr}^ Hemphill. 



Jaw more resembling the t3'pe usual in the subgenus Stenotrema 

 than Mesodon, the ribs, eleven in number, being broad and crowded. 



Lingual membrane as usual in Helix. 



There are forms of H. germana closely connecting the species 

 with H. Columbiana, Lea. The jaw of the latter is described by 

 Dr. Cooper as strongly arched, with eight broad ribs. 



Helix griseola, Pfr. (Fruticicola.) 



Bosque Co., Texas. Mr. Hugo W. Ericsson. 



Jaw with about ten broad, crowded ribs, denticulating the cut- 

 ting margin ; upper margin with membranous attachment. The 

 jaw is somewhat of the type figured by Moquiu Taudon for that 

 of Helix hispida. (See our fig. 214, p. 159, 1. c.) 



Lingual membrane as usual in the genus Helix. The reflected 

 cusps of the teetli are short, stout. Marginals with blunt denti- 

 culations. 



Helix sequoicola, J. G. Cooper. (Arionta.) 



Jaw as usual in the subgenus.' Ribs from four to six. 

 Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus. Central and 



lateral teeth with short, stout cusps. Marginals with two bluntly 



bifid denticles. 



Helix exarata, Pfr. (Arionta.) 



Santa Cruz, California, Mr. Henry Hemphill. 



Lingual membrane and jaw as usual in the subgenus,^ the latter 

 with six ribs. 



Helix Traski, Newcomb. {Arionta.) 



Los Angeles, California, Mr. Henry Hemphill. 



Lingual membrane and jaw as usual in the subgenus,- the latter 

 with eight ribs, five stout, three slight. 



' See note 1 to p. 242. 



2 In Arionta the jaw is strongly arched, ends blunt ; anterior surface with 

 a few, stout, distant ribs, projectius far beyond, and deeply scalloping 

 either margin. See our figure of that of H. redimita in Am. Journ. of 

 Couch. VI. pi. ix. fig. 11. For lingual dentition, see our fig. 284, p. 1G4, 

 of Land aud Fresh-water Shells of N. A., I. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Helix Ayresiana, Newcomb. {Ariontu.) 



San Miguel Island, California. Mr. Henry Harford. 



Animal long and slender, smok3'-white, covered witli white 

 coarse granulations running longitudinally down the back, one 

 line of granulations very prominent and central, bordered on 

 either side with a deep furrow. Also oblique lines of granulations 

 running down the sides of the foot. Foot dirty-white below. Tail 

 short, broad, pointed. Some individuals are darker, with a purplish 

 tinge. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus,' the former 

 witli six ribs. 



Helix ruficincta, Newcomb. {Arionta.) 



Catalina Island, California. Mr. Henry Hemphill. 



Jaw more like the t}' pe common in Mesodon than in Arionta^ i. e., 

 arcuate rather than arched, margins rather pectinated than scal- 

 lofied b}"^ the ends of the ribs, which are about ten in number. 



Lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus.* 



Helix Kelletti, Forbes. (Arionta.) 



Catalina Island, California. Mr. Henry Hemphill. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the subgenus,^ the former 

 with about six ribs. 



Helix Newberryana, W. G. Binney. {Glyptostoma.) See our plate I., 

 %. 13, 3. 

 San Diego, California. Mi*. Heniy Hemphill. 



This species belongs to no described section or subgenus, we 

 propose for it, therefore, the name Glijpfostoma, {yXvTttoi, atioixa). 

 from the peculiar sculptured lines which revolve upon the parietal 

 wall. 



Glyptostoma, snbgcn. nov. 



Testa hite umbilicata, depressa, ruguloso-striata, solida, aufractus G, 

 ultimus dcprcsso-globosus, autice nou dcsceudens ; apertura obliqua, sub- 

 circnlaris ; peristoma simplex, acutum, intus incrassatum, marginibus 

 approxiinatis, columellari brcvi, vix reflexiusculo. 



]\Iaxilla arcuata, costis validis distantibus (circa IG) cxarata ; margines 

 valde dentati.2 ^ 



Lamina lingualis ut in Helice videtnr ; dentes marginales subquadrati. 



' See note 2 to p. 343. 



' See our plate I., flg. 1, and the explanation of the plate. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



S3'stcma sexuale simplex ; desuut sagitta, bursa, flagx'llum, et vesica 

 mullifida. Orificium lit in Ilelice positum. 



Externally, the animal resembles that of Helix. It is bluish- 

 slate colored. 



"We have already described and figured tlie lingual dentition 

 (see Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 190, i)l. xvii. fig. 3, 4). The jaw 

 is long, low, slightly arcuate ; ends blunt; anterior surface with 

 about sixteen stout, separated ribs, scalloping either margin. 

 The jaw is lower, less arcuate and longer than in Arionla. Its 

 ribs resemble those of that subgenus in projecting far beyond and 

 scalloping the margins of the jaw, but they are much more 

 numerous. 



This description applies onl}' to the more perfect form of the 

 jaw (fig. 1 of our plate), noticed only in one individual. In several 

 other individuals the ribs on the jaw were much more narrow and 

 less projecting at the upper and lower margins. There is more 

 difference between these than is usually found in different indivi- 

 duals of the same species. 



SucciNEA CAjiPESTKis, Say. 



Charleston, S. C. Mr. W. G. Mazyck. 



Jaw as usual in the genus; the anterior surface has no decided 

 ribs. 



Lingual membrane as usual in the genus (see our figure on p. 

 267, I.e.). 

 SucciNEA LiNEATA, W. G. Bian. 



Little Colorado River, Arizona. Dr. E. Palmer. 



Jaw and lingual membrane as usual in the genus, the former 

 without distinct anterior ribs. 



Having published many descriptions and figures of the jaws 

 and lingual dentition of moUusks, mostly terrestrial, we here 

 propose to review our work, to see how nearlj'- our observations 

 agree with the generic descriptions published b}^ Albers and von 

 Martens for the various genera. We give below a list of our 

 descriptions published previous to 1873 in other works than the 

 Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America, Parts I. II. and 



' See our plate, fig. 3. There is oue accessary organ, of use unknown to 

 us. See below, explanation of plate. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



III., and the second edition of the Invertcbrata of Massachusetts. 

 In cases where we have not published together, the name of the 

 separate author is given. 



PULMONATA GEOPHILA. 



(.) Without jcno. 



Gonospira sulcata, Miiller. Ann. Lye. N. II. of N. Y., X. 222. See 

 next species. 



Gonospira palanga, Fcr. Am. Journ. Conch., V. 37, pi. xi. fig. 1, 

 photograph. 



Lingual membrane quite distinct from Pujnt, in which it is placed by 

 von Martens. 



Glandina rosea, For. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 203, fig. 1. 



(b.) Wi'Jijaio in one single piece. 



?Hyalina Baudoni, Petit. {Morcliia.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 175. 

 There are no lateral teeth as usual in Ilyalina. The lingual is like that 

 of MacrocycUs, to which genus we believe it belongs. 



Macrocyclis Voyana, Newc. Am. Journ. of Conch., VII. 175. 

 We have shown the dentition to be peculiar in this genus. 



Stenopus Guildingi, Bland. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., VIII. 158, 

 fig. 3. T. Bland. 



Nanina Calias, Benson. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 188, pi. xvii. fig. G, 8. 

 Lingual membrane not given in Albers' ed. 2. We have shown that 

 it differs from Troschel's figures. 



Nanina cultrata, Gould. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 



Nanina inver.sicoIor, Fcr., leucostyla, Pfr., rufizonata, H. Ad., mili 

 taris, Pfr. Ann. Lye. N. II. of N. Y., X. 1G9. 

 All shown by us not to belong to the genus Helix. 



Limax flavus, Lin. Copied in Am. Naturalist, IV. 167, fig. 42, 43. 

 W. G. B. Ann. Lye. K 11. of N. Y., IX. 285, fig. 6. 



Limax maximus, Lin. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 203. 

 Zonites capsella, Gould. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 174. 

 Zonites ligerus. Bay. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 174. 

 Zonites gularis, Say. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 174. 

 Zonites intertextus, Say. Pr. Phila. Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 135. 

 Zonites demissus, Binney. Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 135. 

 Zonites lasmodon, Phillips. Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc., 1872, 135. 

 Zonites internus. Say. Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 135^ 

 Zonites leevigatus, Pfr. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 284, fig. 4. 

 Proc. Ac. N. Sc. Phila., 1872, 135. 

 Pallifera dorsalis, Binney. Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc, 1873, 137. 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



Hemphillia glandulosa, Auu. Lye. N. II. of N. Y., X. pi. ix. fig. l.j, 

 16, 17. 



Ariolimax Columbianus, Gould. Am. Journ. Concli., I. 48, pi. vi. fig. 

 12, 13. W. G. B. 



Veronicella Floridana, Binney. Adn. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 285, 

 fig. 5. 



Veronicella. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 1G3, pi. xii. fig. 7. 



Bulimvis oblongus, Miill. (Bonts.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 



Bulimus pardalis, For. (Bryptus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 181. 



Bulimus marmoratus, Duuker. (Dryptus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 

 181. 

 Jaw not examined. 



Bulimus multicolor, Rang. {Anthinus.} Am. Jour. Conch., VI. 208. 

 The jaw is ribless, thus differing from description of Bulimus. 



Bulimus Hanleyi, Pfr. {Orplmus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 208. 

 Jaw quite unlike generic description. Strongly arched, with a median 

 projection, ribless. 



Bulimus magnificus, Grat. (Orphnus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 208. 

 Jaw quite like generic description. 



Bulimus odontostomus, Sowb. (Macrodontes.) Am. Journ. Conch., 

 VI. 209. 

 The jaw differs from the generic description i]i being ribless. 



Bulimus aulacostylus, Pfr. {Euryius.) Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., 



The jaw as in BulimuUis. 



Bulimus auris-Sileni, Born. (PelecycJiilus.) Same as last species. 



Cochlostyla fulgetrum, Brod. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 

 Jaw not described in Albers and v. Martens. We find it witli riljs. 



Limicolaria Numidica, Eceve. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 181. 

 Jaw differs from the generic description in being ribless. 



Eucalodium New^combianum, Gabb ( = Berendtia Taylori, Pfr.). 

 Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., VIIL 175, fig. 3. T. Bland. 



Steiiogyra decollata, Lin. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 183. 



Stenogyra gonostoma, Guudl. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 183. 



Stenogyra octona, Chemn. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 183. 

 We have shown the peculiar characters of the dentition constant in the 

 three species. 



Clausiiia tridens, Chemn. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 28, pi. ii. fig. 1-5, 



7,8. 



Amphibulima patula, Brug. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 18G, pi. xvii. 

 fig. 1, 2, lingual membrane. Jaw in Ann. Ljx. N. II. of N. Y., X. 225, pi. 

 xi., fig. 8. 



AVe have shown the jaw and dentition to be unlike Succinea. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pellicula? appendiculata, Pfr. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X. 206, 

 pi. ix. fig. 2, 9-11. 



Bulimulus pallidior, Sowb. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 282, fig. 

 2, lingual. 



Bulimulus laticinctus, Guppy." Ann. Lye. N. II. of N. Y., X. 81, pi. 

 11. fig. 1, 5. 

 The teeth are peculiarly modified. 



Bulimulus Bahamensis, Pfr. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X. 82, pi. li. 



fig. y, 4. 



The teeth are peculiarly modified. 



Bulimulus sufilatus, Gould. Am. Journ. Couch., VI. 209, pi. ix. fig. 

 8, 13. 



Bulimulus Marielinus, Poey. Am. Journ. Couch., VI. 209. Jaw alone. 

 Bulimulus Jonasi, Pfr. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 182, as in 5. aureolus. 

 Bulimulus aureolus, Guppy. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 181. 

 Lingual membrane as in S. laticinctus. Jaw not examined. 



Bulimulus alternatus, Say. Am. Journ. Couch., VII. 181. 



Bulimulus membranaceus, Phil. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 182. 

 Teeth as in B. laticinctus. 



Bulimulus dealbatus, Say. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 182. Jaw only. 



Bulimulus Berendti, Pfr. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 182. 

 The species referred to proves to be B. corneus, Sow. 



Bulimulus durus, Splx. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 182. 



Cylindrella subula, Fer. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 183. 



Cylindrella seminuda, Ad. Am. Jouni. Conch., VII. 184. 



Cylindrella rosea, Ad. Am. Journ. Conch., V. 37, pi. xi. fig. 2, 

 photograph. 



Cylindrella scaeva, Gimdl. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., VIII. IGl, fig. 



4. Lingual membrane only. Ibid. IX. 77. T. Bland. 



Cylindrella Blandiana, Pfr. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. So, fig. 



5. T. Bland. 



Cylindrella trinitaria, Pfr. Am. Journ. Conch., IV. 187, fig. T. Bland. 

 Jaw first noticed, also jaw described in C. rosea, sangiiinca, brevis, 

 Maxigeri, gracilis, elongata, Baliamensis, scccva, ElUotti, Brooksiana. 



Macroceramus Gossei, Pfr. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 187, pi. xvil. 

 fig. 9, 11, 12. 



Teeth quite difl'erent from the form usual in Cylindrella and Macrocermmis. 



Macroceramus signatus, Guild. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., VIII. 102, 

 fig. 5, G. Il.id. IX. 84. T. Bland. 



Pineria Viequensis, Pfr. Ann. Lye. N. II. of N. Y., X. 2G. 



Lingual membrane entirely distinct from Pupa, where it is placed by von 

 !Martcus. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 249 



Patula strigosa, Gould. Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 135. 



Patula Idahoensis, Newc. Same as last, 136. 



Patula Cooperi, W. G. Binu. Same as last, 136. 



Patula perspectiva, Say. Same as last, 136. 



Patula solitaria, Say. Am. Journ. Conch., VIT. 176. 



Patula Hemphilli, Newcomb. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 207, pi. ix. fig. 8. 



Patula Cooperi, W. G. Binn. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 207. Jaw. 



Sagda connectens. Ad. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 175. 



The marginal teeth are quadrate, not aculeate, proving the genus to 

 belong to the Helicea, not to the Vitrinea. 



Sagda Haldemaniana, Adams. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 175. See 

 last species. 



Sagda Jayana, Adams. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X. 219. See last 

 species. 



Helix circumfirmata, Redf. {Microphysa.) Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., 

 X. 221. 



The species shown to belong to the Vitrininm. 



Helix turbiniformis, Pfr. (Ificrophysa.) Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., 

 X. 79, pi. ii. fig. 2. 

 Jaw unusual in the genus resembling that of BuUmulus. 



Helix Boissieri, Charp. (^Leucochroa.) Ann. Lye. N. H. of X. Y., 

 X. 220. 

 The species shown to be more nearly related to Helix than to any of the 



Vitrinina. 



Helix Yatesii, J. G. Cooper. {Gonostoma.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 

 176. 



Helix polygyrella, Bland and Cooper. {Polygyrella.) Proc. Phila. 



Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 136. 



. Helix microdonta, Desh. (Polygyra.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 205. 



Helix septemvolva, Say. (Polygyra.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 206. 



Helix fastigans, L. W. Say. (Polygyra.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 176. 



Helix stenotrema, Fer. (Stenotrema.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 207. 



Helix loricata, Gould. (Triodopsis.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 206. 



Helix inflecta, Say. (Triodopsis.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 206. 



Helix palliata, Say. (Mesodon.) Proc. Phila. Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 136. 



Helix obstricta, Say. (Mesodon,.) Same as last, 136. 



Helix devia, Gould. (Mesodon.) Proc. Phila, Ac N. Sc, 1872, 136. 



Helix similaris, Fer. (Dorcasia.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 176. 



Helix Newberryana, W. G. B. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 190, pi. xvii. 

 fig- 3, 4. 



n 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Helix fidelis, Gray. {Aglnja.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 207, pi. ix. 



fig. 1, 9. 



Jaw said to be ribless, but a better specimen found normal, Proc. Pliila. 

 Ac. N. Sc, 1872, 136. 



Helix redimita, W. G. Binn. (Arionta.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 

 206, pi. ix. fig. 11. 



Helix tudiculata, Binney. (^Arionta.) Am. Journ. Concli., VI. 208, 

 pi. ix. fig. 7. 



Helix Townsendiana, Lea. (Arionta.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 206. 

 Helix reticulata, Pfr. (Arionta.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 177. 

 Helix Nickliniana, Pfr. {Arionta.) Am. Journ. Couch., VII. 177. 

 Helix Tryorri, Newc. (Euparyplia) jaw, W. G. B. Am. Journ. 

 Conch., I. 93, pi. vi. fig. 2-10. 

 Showing variation in number of ribs. 



Helix Gossei, Ad. {Coryda.) Am. Journ. Conch, VII. 177. Lingual 

 membrane only. 



Helix aspera, Fer. (Thelidomus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 204. 



Helix notabilis, Shuttl. (Thelidomus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 177. 

 Lingual membrane only. 



Helix pemphigodes, Pfr. (Cysticopsis.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 177. 

 Lingual mcrahraue only. 



Helix tumida, Pfr. (Cysticopsis.) Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 283, 

 fig. 3, lingual. 



Jaw, ditferent from generic description, figured in Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 

 203, fig. 2. 



Helix loxodon, Pfr. {Plagioptycha.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 177. 



Unlike the generic description, the jaw has a median projection, and is 

 ribless. 



Helix diaphana, Lam. {Plagioptycha.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 178. 

 See last si)ecies. 



Helix monodonta, Lea. (Plagioptycha.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 

 178. See last. 



Helix Albersiana, Pfr. (Plagioptycha.) Amer. Journ. Conch., VII. 

 178. Jaw same as in last species. 



Helix macroglossa, Pfr. (Plagioj)tychn.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 178. 

 Jaw with nu'dian projection and no anterior ribs. 



Helix varians, ^Ike. (Polymita.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 206, lingual. 

 Helix muscarum, Lam. (Polymita.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 204, pi. 

 ix. fig. 4, 10. 

 Jaw ribless, lingual widely differing from the usual type of Helix. 



Helix graminicola, Ad. (Polymita.) Amor. Journ. Conch., VII. .178. 

 Jaw dilh Tful I'roni generic description of Jfdix in having no anterior ribs 

 and in liaving a median projection to its cutting edge. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Helix crispata, Pfr. (Eurycratem.) Am. Journ. Couch., VII. 179. 



Helix orbiculata, Fer. (DenteHaria.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 205, 

 pi. ix. rig. 14. Jaw apparently costate. 



Helix Isabella, Pfr. (DenteHaria.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 179. 

 Jaw surely costate. 



Helix dentiens, Fer. (DenteHaria.) Am. Journ. Couch., VII. 179. 

 Jaw as in last. 



Helix perplexa, Fer. {DenteHaria.) Ann. Lye. N. II. of N. Y., X. 221. 

 Jaw with traces of anterior ribs, but with a median projection to its cut- 

 ting edg&. 



Helix Schroeteriana, Pfr. (Pleurodonta.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 

 179. 

 Lingual membrane alone examined. 



Helix acuta, Lam. (Pleurodonta.) Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 204. 



Helix excellens, Pfr. {Garacolus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 

 Lingual membrane only examined. 



Helix Bermudensis, Pfr. (Caracolus.) Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X. 

 221. 



The species shown to belong to the Vitrininm. 



Helix fuscocincta, Ad. (Leptoloma.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 

 Jaw unlike generic description in having a median projection and no ribs. 



Helix Phoenix, Pfr. (Acavus.) Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 180. 

 Jaw with no anterior ribs. 



(c. ) WitJi jaw in separate pieces. 



Liguus virgineus, Lin. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 209, fig. 3, 4, lingual 

 membrane. 



Liguus fasciatus, Mull. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 211, pi. ix. fig. 6. 



Orthalicus zebra, Miill. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 212, pi. ix. fig. 2. 



Orthalicus undatus, Brug. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 213, pi. ix. fig. 10, 

 12. 



(d.) With jaw with s^ipplementary upper plate. 



Succinea effusa, Shuttl. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 213, pi. ix. fig. 15. 

 Suocinea Nuttalliana, Lea. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 282, fig. 1. 



PULMONATA LIMNOPHILA. 



Limnaeaappressa, Say. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 161, pi. xii. fig. 1, 2, 5. 



Limnaea megasoma, Say. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 162, pi. xii. fig. 3, (5. 



Pompholyx effusa, Lea. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 290, fig. 9. 

 Amer. Journ. Conch. VI. 312, pi. xviii. 



Planorbis trivolvis. Say. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 292, fig. 10. 



Melampus bidentatus, Say. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 286, fig. 7. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



PECTINIBRANCHIATA. 

 Geomelania. Am. Journ. Couch., VII. 185, pi. xvii. fig. 7, 10. 

 Blaudiella reclusa, Guppy. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. ISo, pi. xvii. 

 fig. ~). 



Cyclotus stramineus, Rve. Am. Journ. Conch.,' I. 45, pi. v. fig. 1, 4. 

 T. Bland. Jaw and teeth. 



Megalomastoma cylindraceum, Chemn. Am. Journ. Conch., I. 45, 

 pi. V. ti-. 2. jaw. T. Bland. 



Megalomastoma Antillarum, Sowb. Same as last, fig. 3, teeth. T. 

 Bland. 



Megalomastoma bituberculatum, Sowb. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 

 213, fig. 6. 

 Tulotomamagnifica, Conrad. Ann. Lye. K H. ofN. Y.,IX. 293, fig. 11. 



SCUTIBRANCHIATA. 

 Stoastoma pisum, Ad. Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 184. 



Helicina occulta, Say. Ann. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., IX. 287, fig. 8. 

 Am. Journ. Conch., VII. 29, pi. ii. fig. 6. 



Helicina orbiculata, Say. Am. Journ. Conch., VI. 214, pi. i.x. fig. 5, 



From the observations we have catalogued above, it appears that 

 the jaw cannot be depended upon as a generic character in the 

 genus Bulimus, as constituted in the second edition of Die Heliceen. 

 We have found it strongly ribbed, with ribs as described below in 

 Bulimulus, ribless, and ribless with a decided median projection 

 to its cutting edge. In Limicolaria the jaw is described with ribs, 

 we find it ribless in one species. In BuHviuhis, von Martens 

 describes the jaw as composite. We have shown it to be in one 

 single piece, though divided by delicate ribs into numerous plate- 

 like sections. The jaw is also very thin and transparent. This 

 form of jaw seems constant in Bidimulus. It is also found in 

 Cylindrella, 3Iacrocerainiis, Amphihulima^ Gaeoh's, and even in 

 Helix (H. turhiniformis). The tendency to an upper triangular 

 median plate is more or less seen in this form of jaw its greatest 

 development being in Cylindrella. 



In the genus Helix as constituted by von ]SIartcns, the jaw is 

 said to be ribbed, but we have found every variety of jaw except 

 that with an upper additional plate, and that with free imbricated 

 plates as in Orlkalicus. We believe, however, that the form of 

 jaw is constant in all the species of each section or subgenus of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIITA. 253 



Helix. Thus we have found the jaw alike in all the species we 

 have examined of P alula. So of Sagcla, Pohjgyra^ Mesodon^ 

 Arionta, Slenotrema^ Triodopsis, Plagioplycha^ Polymita, Dentel- 

 laria. 



It appears to us, therefore, that we may hope to find a reliable 

 generic character in the jaw, when the present subgenera, or some 

 of them at least, are recognized as distinct genera. On account 

 of the gradations in the ribs and median projection, we have else- 

 where^ suggested that for the purpose of grouping the genera into 

 subfamilies, we may depend only upon the following distinctions 

 in the jaw. 



(a.) Jaw in one piece. 



(&.) Jaw in separated, imbricated pieces. 



(c.) Jaw in one piece with an upper accessory plate. 



As regards the lingual dentition, it appears that the distinction, 

 as far as the central and lateral teeth are concerned, is but slight 

 between the various families and genera. The marginal teeth, 

 however, give us two very distinct types, the aculeate and quadrate. 



The former is found either unaccompanied by a jaw, or bj' its 

 simplest form. Up to this date no instance is on record of aculeate 

 marginal teeth together with a jaw complicated by anterior ribs, 

 free imbricated plates, or an upper accessory plate. The presence 

 of aculeate marginal teeth is usually (not always) indicated by a 

 smooth, shining shell, with acute peristome. The shell, however, 

 is not always reliable as an indicator of the form of mai'ginal teeth, 

 for we have shown the rough shells of several Mauritius species 

 to have a lingual membrane with aculeate marginal teeth. It 

 appears, therefore, that the shell alone will not indicate the generic 

 position of some species. 



The quadrate marginal teeth are accompanied b}' various forms 

 of jaw. They are usually constant in shape in the various genera. 

 Sometimes, however, we have met with unexpected variation 

 such as in 3Iacroceramus Gossei, Helix muscarum, and a group 

 of Bulimulus represented by B. lalicincfui^. 



The form of jaw with free, imbricated plates seems (excepting 

 in Punctum) constantly accompanied by a peculiar form of quadrate 

 teeth, as in Orthalicus and Liguus. To our surprise, however, 

 we have detected a somewhat similar form of teeth in Gseotis, 



' Aun. Lye. N. H. of N. Y., X. 163. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



whose jaw is like that of Bulimulus.^ It seems, therefore, that 

 the lingual dentition is less reliable as a generic character than 

 the jnw, at least in cases where the aculeate marginal teeth are 

 absent. 



Finall}-, we are convinced that most satisfactory^ results will 

 follow the patient investi<ration of the jaw and lingual dentition 

 of the Geophila. j^lthough we have in many cases proved the 

 distinctions, which have been based on them, to be unreliable, we 

 believe that a further accumulation of facts will la3' tiie foundation 

 of a natural and generall}- acceptable classification. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. 



Fig. L The jaw oi Helix Newherryana (see page 244). 



Fig. 2. Genitalia of Helix irifuniala. See references to fig. 5, 

 except 9, the duct of the genital bladder. 



Fig. 3. Genitalia of Helix Newherryana. Same references as 

 in 5, excepting 12, probably a rudimentary dart sac, for which see 

 page 245. The names of the organs are the same as used by Dr. 

 Leidy in the plates of Vol. I. of Dr. Binney's Terrestrial Air- 

 breathing Mollusks of the United States. 



"We failed to detect any accessory gland of the epididj^mis. The 

 epididymis is very long, convoluted in the lower half of its length, 

 straight above. It runs free for a long distance outside the mem- 

 brane which covers the oviduct, before entering into the liver, 

 where it joins the testicle. The latter is imbedded in the liver, 

 near its uiiper extremity. It is composed of several, apparently 

 six, separated fasciculi of blind tubes. The vas deferens enters 

 the penis about its middle, not at its end. The penis is small, 

 cylindrical. There is no trace of lobuli in the ovary, but its under, 

 concave surface is reticulated. The genital bladder is oval, its 

 duct is long, free only for a short distance, then attached to the 

 oviduct the whole length of the latter ; at its base it becomes 

 again free, and enters the vagina below the terminus of the oviduct. 

 At about the same point, the vagina receives the mouth of a long, 

 broad, rounded organ, (12 of fig. 3). This organ is hollow. Its 

 use is unknown to us, it may be a dart sac, or a prostate gland. 



' We are about publishing this in the Ann. N. Y. Lye. of N. H., 1873, 

 X. 251, pi. xi. fig. 5. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



9 



The vagina is very long, the penis enters it at its lower ex- 

 tremity near the exterior opening of the genitalia. 



For the stvke of comparison, we have also given figures of the 

 genitalia of two other Pacific subgenera, Arionta and Aglaja. 

 In Helix Townsendiana, Lea (Arionta), see plate I. fig. 4, we 

 detected the accessor^'- gland of the epididymis (3), composed of 

 several acini of different sizes. The genital bladder is lensrthened 

 oval (9), and differs greatly from that of Helix Neivberryana in 

 having a very short, stout duct. At the opening of the penis there 

 is a decided enlargement, perhaps of the nature of a prepuce, or 

 prostate. The vas deferens enters the penis below its apex. 

 The retractor muscle is at the apex of the penis. There seems 

 no accessory organ, the genitalia being reduced to their simplest 

 type. 



Of Aglaia we have examined two species, H. Jidelis, Gray, and 

 H. infumata, Gould. The genitalia of these are almost exactly 

 similar. In neither have we detected any accessory gland to the 

 epididymis. In both the penis is extended into a decided fla- 

 gellum (15). The vas deferens (7) enters below the flagellate ex- 

 tension (15). The retractor muscle (6) is attached on the oppo- 

 site side and still lower down. There is a well-marked prepuce 

 (12). Opposite the entrance of the penis on the other side of the 

 vagina, which is here considerably swollen, is a small sac-like 

 organ (14), ending in a smoothly rounded cul-de-sac, of what use 

 in the economy of the animal is unknown to us, unless it be a 

 rudimentary dart sac. There was no appearance, however, of a 

 dart within it. Just above this organ opens the stout duct of 

 another organ (13), cylindrical, bluntly pointed, hollow, of a 

 reticulated appearance. There is a contraction where this organ 

 joins its duct, which is of about the same size. The two together 

 are about as long as the penis with its flagellum, and stouter. No 

 dart was noticed within this organ. It is, no doubt, a form of 

 vaginal prostate, as described by Moquin Tandop. Tlie genital 

 bladder (9) is globular. Its duct is long, free in the upper half 

 of its course. The oviduct, ovary, genital bladder, testicle, etc., 

 of H. infumata, fig. 2, are not figured by us. They are as in H. 

 Jidelis, fig. 5, excepting the testicle, which is as in H. Newber- 

 ry an a. 



Fig. 4. Genitalia of Helix Towsendiana, Lea. Same reference 

 as in Fig. 5, excepting 3, the accessory gland of the epididymis. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF 



Fig. 5. Genitalia of Helix Jidelis, Gray. 



1. Testicle. 



2. Epidicl3'mis. 



4. The prostate gland. 



5. The sac of the penis. 



6. The retractor muscle of penis. 



7. The vas deferens. 



8. The oviduct. 



9. The genital bladder. 



10. The exterior orifice of genitalia. 



11. The ovary. 



12. Tlie prepuce. 



13. Vaginal prostate. 



14. Rudimentary dart sac? 



15. The flagellum, which contains a capreolus. 



16. The duct of the genital bladder. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 257 



April 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twent3'-nine members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " On the Affinities of the Sirenians." By Theo. Gill. 



Dr. Leidy presented an interesting specimen of bituminous 

 coal from the mines of the Westmoreland Coal Company, West- 

 moreland Count}', Pennsylvania. This specimen is a gift to tlie 

 museum, from George C. Hewett, Esq., Mining Engineer, who 

 furnislies the following details : The seam from which the speci- 

 men is taken is noted for its regularity and freedom from faults. 

 Occasional cracks, however, occur sometimes several hundred feet 

 in length. In these cracks incrustations of iron pyrites are found 

 in various forms, of which an unusual one is shown in the present 

 specimen, viz., in the form of stalactical prolongations. The 

 remaining portions of the vein consist of remarkabl}'^ pure coal 

 especially suited for the manufacture of illuminating gas. 



Prof. Leidy remarked that the rat presented this evening by 

 Mr. L. Fussel was a specimen of the l>lack Rat, or Mus rattus, 

 which had been caught on board a ship in the vicinity of the city. 

 This rat is exceedingly rare, but is said to have once been com- 

 mon enough, and is also said to have been nearly exterminated 

 by the common brown or Norway Rat. 



Prof. Leidy also exhibited a specimen of iron ore, recently 

 sent to him by Dr. George W. Lawrence, of Hot Springs, Ark. It 

 was the mineral Dufreynite, and was found in Polli Co., Ark. 



April 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



Dr. LeConte announced the death, at Davidsburg, York Co., 

 Pa., on the 10th March, of Friedrich Ernest Melsheimer, M.D., a 

 correspondent of tlie Academy, aged nearl}' ninety-one years. . He 

 inherited great taste for entomology from his father, E. F. Mels- 

 heimer, a clergyman, who cultivated natural science with much 

 success, and not only was a highlj^ esteemed correspondent of 

 Knocii and other European entomologists of the end of the past 

 and beginning of the present century, but an active collaborator 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with Say, the founder of descriptive entomology in the United 

 States. 



Dr. Melsheimer thus inheriting the tastes and tlie collection of 

 his father, has preserved, for later investigators, the only authen- 

 tic t3-pes of many of Mr. Say's species ; and has also contributed 

 no small proportion of the descriptions of Coleoptera, which ap- 

 peared up to Februar}^, 1847. His memoirs on this subject, con- 

 taining notes and descriptions of about four hundred and fift}^- 

 seven species, were printed in the 2d and 3d vols, of the proceed- 

 ings of this Academy. 



Entomology also owes to him the catalogue of the described 

 Coleoptera of the United States, which, after revision by Prof S. 

 S. Haldeman and myself, was published by the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution in 1853. It was the first work of bibliographical import- 

 ance in the modern history of that branch of science, and gave a 

 powerful impetus to its development in the United States, and 

 has greatly diminished the labor of those who have continued the 

 study of that department. 



Living an isolated life on his farm, remote from usual lines of 

 travel, dependent almost entirely on letters for the s3-mpathy and 

 counsel of his fellow students, separated from libraries containing 

 the results of modern research, and therefore dependent on the 

 traditional knowledge received from Europe, Avhich constituted 

 in fact most of the intellectual capital of the founders of natural 

 history in the United States, Dr. Melsheimer must be considered 

 as a very remarkable instance of one who, with very limited 

 opportunities, has worked honestly, to the extent of his abilities, 

 to develop the powers of usefulness which were given him. 



Modest, unpretending, affectionate to his family, devoted to his 

 friends, industrious to the limit of human usefulness, his death, 

 at such an advanced age, can only leave, with those who liave 

 enjoj'ed his acquaintance, a satisfaction that they have known so 

 good a representative of the purer qualities of humanit}'. 



The following letter, on the introduction of the California 

 Salmon, was read by Prof. Cope: 



Harrisburg, Pa., March 11, 1873. 



My Dear Sir: Supposing j'ou might feel some interest in the 

 matter, I propose to give you a short account of the introduction 

 of the California Salmon, which I hope it will bo my good fortune 

 to be able years hence to say I effected on the third of this present 

 month. 



Professor Baird, U. S. Com. of Fisheries, employed last summer 

 Mr. Livingston Stone, of Rhode Island, to procure the spawn of 

 some California Salmon. They have been called Sacramento 

 Salmon ; and I believe the spawn were obtained from that stream 

 or one of its branches. 



Dr. Slack obtained just sixty-nine hundred young; they thrived 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



and got on very well in his preserves till about the ISth of Febru- 

 ary, when he found that tliey eon id not be preserved in the small 

 space at liis disposal for them and they began to die from confine- 

 ment. 



I had previously arranged with Mr. Baird that these fish should 

 be deposited in the Susquehanna a gift from the Government to 

 I'ennsylvania so Dr. Slack said I must get ready as soon as 

 possible, as he feared the mortality amongst them might spread. 

 The weather was so warm that we could not move them until the 

 3d inst. as stated by which time the loss had reached to one 

 hundred and tit'ty individuals. The3'- were transported across 

 from Xew Jersey, about seven miles from Easton, to Harrisburg 

 on the day named, and I had them placed in the water in an air 

 hole in the ice close to the shore at Harrisburg about one hun- 

 dred died on the passage about fifty were much weakened bj^the 

 journe}' but recovered in a few minutes after reaching the new 

 water. I>ut the balance, the healtliy ones, immediately made for 

 the current, and disappeared under the ice with as mnch energy 

 as if they were native to our Susquehanna. 



The water, when they entered, was 36 Fahr. at the time, but 

 the river bottom is full of springs at whicli they could warm them- 

 selves. Had I the least idea that there was no description of 

 them, I should have noted their peculiarities in my unscientific 

 way more particularly, but as it is the above is the best descrip- 

 tion T can give you of them. Dr. Slack, I believe, fed them after 

 they had parted witli their 3'olk sack ; but I concluded, from my 

 own judgment, that the best thing I could do was to trust them to 

 the magnificent Susquehanna. The energy with which the healthy 

 ones put out leads me to hope that they will live if not devoured 

 by enemies ; but should they die we can rejieat the experiment 

 with a larger quantity hereafter. 



Your obedient servant, 



JAMES WORR ALL. 



Prof. E. D. Cope, 



Philadelphia. 



April 15. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 "Observations on a change of Structure of a Larva of Dryo- 

 campa Imperialis." By Thos. G. Gentry. 



RemarJcH on Extinct Mammah from Califoy^nia. Prof. Leidy 

 directed attention to some fossils, which he had borrowed, through 




2fi0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Prof. E. 0. TTovey, from the cabinet of Wal)asli College, Craw- 

 fordsville, Indiana. They were part of a collection obtained by 

 Dr. Lorenzo G. Yates from a quarternary deposit of California. 

 One of the specimens is the riglit ramus of tlie lower jaw of a 

 wolf, probably of the Canis indianensis, previously indicated from 

 a si)ecimen found on the banks of the Ohio, Indiana. 



A second specimen consists of the fore part of a maxillary bone, 

 with the second prenular, and the canine alveolus, of a tiger as 

 large as tlie largest living Bengal tiger. It probably indicates a 

 species different from those previously noticed, and might be 

 named Felis imperialis. 



Several specimens consist of upper molar teeth, which ar esup- 

 posed to pertain to Bison latifrons. 



The remaining and most interesting specimens consist of an 

 upper molar and a complete lower molar series of a lama as large 

 as the existing camel. Remains of a still larger species fnun 

 California have been previously indicated under tiie name of Au- 

 chenia californica. The present specimens were referred to a 

 species with the name Auchenia hesterxa. Prof. Owen has de- 

 scribed some remains of an equally large lama from Mexico, which 

 he refers to an allied genus with the name of Palauchenia magna, 

 and which perhaps may be the same as the Auchenia hesterna. 

 An inspection of Prof. Owen's figures of a series of molar teeth 

 leads to the suspicion that he has inadvertently mistaken the 

 upper series for the lower ones, and has thus been led to refer 

 them to a genus different from Auchenia. 



April 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Influence of Nutrition upon Sex among the Lepidoptera." 

 By Tiios. G. Gentry. 



Fungus Farasife on a House Prof. Leidy exhibited a mouse 

 witli several whitish masses adherent to the ears, side of tlie face, 

 and nose. The mouse had been caught in the children's dei)art- 

 ment of Blockley Hospital, and was submitted to his exami- 

 nation by one of the attending physicians, Dr. James B. Walker, 

 who had informed him that he had observed a number of mice in 

 the same condition. Dr. Walker had previously' informed him of 

 the curious affection of the mice, and it was at his suggestion that 

 the present specimen was caught for examination. The white 

 matter examined beneath the microscope proved to be composed 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 261 



of sporular bodies, single, double, or in sliort chains of a dozen or 

 more. They measure about the ^i^y of a line in diameter. The 

 fungus is a Torula or Oidibira, and resembles that found in Aptha. 

 Perhaps the disease in the mice is the result of feeding upon arti- 

 cles imbued with adherent portions of apthous matter from the 

 mouths of children, and perhaps also the latter may become af- 

 fected from diseased mice contaminating food or drink used by 

 the children. 



Dr. LeConte remarked that he had found in his father's house 

 in New York, scA'eral years ago, a mouse exhibiting the same 

 fungoid disease, and in the fungi were found specimens of a 

 coleopterous insect of the genus Lathridius. The doctor also 

 remarked that in a few days a cutaneous eruption appeared on his 

 own person, which seemed to have been derived from the fungoid 

 disease of the mouse. 



April 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



Augustus R. Hall, Kingston G. Goddard, M.D., and John J. 

 Macfarlane were elected members. 



On report of the committees the following papers were ordered 

 to be published : 




2G2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



ON THE AFFINITIES OF THE SIRENIANS. 

 BY THEODORE GILI^, M.D., PH.D. 



There exist, among the placental mammals, several well-defined 

 groups combined together and differentiated from all others by 

 the common character of atrophy, or entire want, of the posterior 

 members as well as pelvis, a pisciform shape, and adaptation for 

 habitual life in the water. These common co-ordinated characters 

 have been supposed by most zoologists to indicate close affinity. 

 A few, however, have considered them to be an insufficient index, 

 and recognizing that one of these groups was more isolated than 

 the others, and its members provided with a less abnormal skull, 

 and with a dentition and intestinal canal adapted for a vegetable 

 regimen, have approximated that group to the Pachyderm Ungu- 

 lates. Such zoologists seem insensibly to have been influenced 

 more especially by teleological considerations (adaptation for vege- 

 table food and complexity of the intestinal tract), and size. 

 Appreciating the vague (and very vague) similarit}'^ between the 

 groups in question (the Sirenians) and the hoofed mammals, 

 coincident with a comparatively large size (and thus contrasting 

 with the other herbivorous mammals), and further struck with 

 the agreement of the Sirenians with the hoofed mammals (Pachj^- 

 derms) distinguished by the negative character of want of a 

 compound stomach, they have combined the two into one order. 

 Unwilling, however, to confess or even admit to self, the influence 

 of such considerations, the d p?'iori conclusion reached has been 

 attempted to be substantiated by a selection of characters sup- 

 posed to be common to forms of the two groups, while no exclu- 

 sive diagnosis has been framed for the common group. But so 

 strong has been the prepossession, in favor of the view of the 

 affinities of the group in question, that it permeates and is felt in 

 systems where it is not avowed, and tliis influence is evident in 

 works of the latest writers. 



Probability of Common Origin. 



It is far more credible, in the opinion of the author, that the 

 ordinary Cetaceans and the Sirenians are derivatives from a 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 263 



common original stock a generalized gyrenccphalic type whose 

 form had alreadj^ been modified for continued aquatic life by the 

 reduction or atroph^^ of the hinder members, and that the existing 

 orders represent the extreme specialization in diverse directions 

 from such a common type, tban that the two forms have inde- 

 pendently diverged from two ambulatorial t^^Dcs. Even admit- 

 ting the utmost differences that have been urged between the two 

 forms, and the respective affinities of each to other forms, all such 

 are still so indisputably related, inter se, as alone to suggest 

 suspicions and doubts as to independent origin. Furtliermore, 

 it would appear more probable that such divergence had com- 

 menced from a type whose toes were separated and spreading, 

 than from one whose digits and corneous appendage had already 

 become specialized as hoofs ; the difficulties, indeed, incident to 

 the view of the development from a hoofed mammal of a mutilate 

 form, are so great and obvious that reasons stronger than any 

 yet given will doubtless be required before a general belief in 

 such development, or in the very intimate affiuit}^ of the Sireuians 

 and Pachyderms, prevails. 



It must of course be granted that the pisciform mammals are 

 the derivatives from quadrupedal types, for the evidence as to 

 the line of descent from the lowest quadrupedal mammal to the 

 higher, is unassailable; therefore, the terms embryonic' or syn- 

 thetic are inapplicable to the pisciform mammals ; on the contrary, 

 those mammals must be considered as in the highest degree de- 

 veloped and specialized t3q)es, and if the extent of specialization 

 in miy direction were a true test of rank, their claims to the first 

 rank would be indisputable. 



Character op Progenitor. 



As to the common progenitor of tlie Sirenians and Cetaceans, 

 the evidence is by no means as clear as would be desirable. We 

 have, in the Pinnipedia, a type that has been, in a liigh degree 

 (compared with ordinary quadrupeds), specialized for aquatic life. 

 The characters common to that type and the Fissipede carnivores, 



' Prof. Agassiz lias been able to see in tlie mutilate mammals " enibry- 

 onic" types, considering the Cetaceans to be "embryonic" carnivores, and 

 the Sirenians to be genuine " embryonic" types of Pachyderms. See Proc. 

 Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., iii. p. 309, 1850. 




264 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and especially such non-adaptive characters as the union of the 

 scaphoid and lunar bones, indicate their community of origin, 

 and point to the derivation of Pinnipcdias from a specialized car- 

 nivorous stock. The tendencies of the specialization in the Pin- 

 nipedia, as the great reduction iu size of the milk teeth, the 

 decreasing differentiation of the other teeth, and the modifications 

 of the form, are towards the Cete ; the extinct Zeuglodonts, and 

 especially the Basilosauridae, even indicate the possibility, if not 

 probability, of the derivation of the Cete from a Pinniped avus. 

 At the most, however, it can onl}- be claimed that no quadrupedal 

 t3^pe now exists, or has left its remains, so far as is 3'et known, 

 which so nearly fulfils the conditions of intervention between 

 ordinary quadrupeds and mutilates as the Pinnipedia. It is 

 possible, however, that the resemblances in question may be 

 adaptive, and it must not be forgotten that similar tendencies, 

 but in a very minor degree, are exhibited by a specialized lutrine 

 type (Enh3-dris, or sea otter). A careful comparative study of 

 the detailed anatomy, and especiall}' of the brain, in the general- 

 ized Educabilia,* and the Pinnipeds, Sirenians, and Cetaceans 

 might go far to dissipate the doubts now involving the question, 

 and determine the truth one way or another. 



It appears, however, to be demonstrable, from what is already 

 known of the brain and the organization generally, that the muti- 

 lates are at least the oflfshoots from the same common progenitor 

 as the carnivores and other Educabilia ; and in view of the near 

 relations, even within the limits of the "super-order," it appears 

 also to be much more probable that the two orders of mutilates 

 have been derived from a common mutilate progenitor, than that 

 they have diverged independently from two different types of 

 quadrupeds within such circumscribed limits. Nor is there any 

 cogent evidence, apparently, against the descent of the Sirenians 

 from a mutilate descendant of a proto-inniped ancestor, either as to 

 adaptation for a vegetable regimen or dentition. 



The autlior has, therefore, felt obliged, after mature reflection, 

 to adopt the views, current among most of the special students of 

 the mammals, that the Cetaceans and Sirenians are orders more 

 nearly related to each other than is either to auy other order, and 



' The author has not access to the material, at present, for such an in- 

 vestigation. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 265 



that consequent!}' they should be approximated to each other in 

 contrast with any forms to which the}^ should be next placed, 

 wherever that may be. In this respect, as already indicated, he is 

 at variance with some most learned and accomplished naturalists, 

 who have expressed decided views to the contrary; it being in- 

 sisted by them that the Sirenians are most nearly related to the 

 Pachyderm Ungulates, and even (by some of them) that those 

 forms belong to the same special order as the Proboscideans, 

 H_yracoids, Perissodactyle Ungulates, and Omnivora ; in other 

 words, the Cuverian order Pachydermata modified by the addi- 

 tion to it of the Sirenians. 



Relations of Sirenians. 



The affinities of the Sirenians and Ungulates have been urged 

 with special emphasis, the view repeatedly reiterated in the United 

 States, and even generally' adopted by all but special students of 

 mammals (and not even excluding all of them), and in one of our 

 latest and most approved text-books on zoology, it is remarked ; 

 "The so-called Herbivorous whales, which Cuvier gi'ouped with 

 the Cetaceans, are now placed with the Pach^'derms, with which 

 they undoubtedly belong." It is, therefore, by no means a labor 

 of supererogation to examine into the evidence which has seemed, 

 to men justh' celebrated for learning and acuteness, to justify 

 such a combination. 



The best epitome of the arguments (in English) in favor of 

 snch collocation, has been published by Dr. S. Kneeland, in a 

 special memoir,* and for that reason it has been subjected to 

 examination and analysis, the data classified (no distinction being 

 made as to value or subordination in the memoir), and their value 

 weighed. 



It may be added, before proceeding to this analysis, that Dr. 

 J. F. Brandt has also compared, at much length, the characteris- 

 tics of the Sirenians with those of the Ungulates;- but he has 

 exhibited their differences as well as certain resemblances, and 

 has, indeed, been much more successful in the former portion of 



' The Manatus not a Cetacean, but a Pachyderm ; by S. Kneeland, Jr., 

 of Boston, Mass. Proceedings of the American Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science. Thh-d Meeting (I80O), pp. 42-47. 



2 Symbols! Sirenologicaj (1868), pp. lGG-304; also, pp. 832-32G. 

 18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



his work than the latter. He, nevertheless, regards the Sirenians 

 as most nearly related to the Pachj-derms, although entitled to 

 ordinal distinction, and even more distinct from tlie Pach3"derms 

 than are the Cetaceans from the Carnivores, Avhich are connected 

 hy intermediate forms {e.g. Zeuglodonts, Seals, and Sea-otters), 

 in this case of value and indicating affinity.' 



The analysis of the cited memoir gives the following results : 

 1st. Characters supposed to differentiate the Manatee from the 

 Cetaceans. 

 These may be arranged under tliree categories, viz: 

 a. Those really differentiating the Manatee from all the Ceta- 

 ceans, to wit: the form of the vertebnxi and the absence of ossified 

 epiph3'ses, the form of the scapula, the structure of the anterior 

 limb, the development of the occipital bone and the position of 

 the condyles, and the form of the lower jaw. 



h. Those not differentiating the Manatee from all the Cetaceans, 

 but from peculiar sub-orders of Cetaceans, viz., the absence of a 

 rostrum, position of the narial apertures, the presence of olfactory 

 nerves, the development of tlie nasal bones, and " the two bones 

 of the lower jaw [not] separate at the sympliysis." 



' (5) Sirenia in universum quidem nexum plus minusve propinquum 

 CU9 variis mammalium divisionibus nominutis, cum PacliydermatibuH potis- 

 simuni, habent (ita ut a reccntiorum phu'ibus adeo pro formis PacJii/denna- 

 tum aquatibilibus shit declarata). Forma; re vera intermedia; tamen 

 (qualem inter Mustelina et Phocacina genus Enhydris pra;bct) nee inter 

 Sirenia et Pachydennata, ucc inter Sirenia et Caiacea, nee inter Zeuglo- 

 dontes et Sirenia, nedum inter Phocacina et Sirenia hucuaquc sunt rcpcrta;. 

 Sirenia potius non solum a Cetaceis et Zeufjlodontibus et Phocinis, sed 

 etiam a Pachydermatibus niagis differunt quam Cetacea a Feris, quum 

 Cetacea Zeuglodontum ope Phocinis appropinquentur, Phocina vero Enhy- 

 dribus cum Mustelinis cnnnectantur. 



(6) Sirenia iguitur pro mammalibus mere aquaticis dcclarari potcrunt, 

 qua; corporis et plurium scclcti partium motubus aquatibus adaptorum 

 figura et structura Cetaceis et Zcvglodontibus sunt connata et Phocinis 

 parnm similia apparent, ob indolem phytopbagam (non ut in dictis mam- 

 malium divisionibus carnivoram) et strueturam morpbologicam ei con- 

 gruam vero Pachydermatibus muUo magis (piam aliis mammalibus aflinia 

 observantur, nibilominus tamen, ob cliarcclercs plurcs ijisis poculiares et 

 formarum intcrmcdiarum absentiam etiam Pachyderniatibm adjungi liaud 

 possunt, quare aptius, pro tempore saltcm, ordinem peculiarcm couslitue- 

 runt. Brandt, Symb. Siren., 18G8, p. 359. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Certain Zeuglodonts are equall}^ characterized by the absence of 

 a rostrum, and tlie position of the narial aperture. 



The Denticete alone are characterized by the absence of olfac- 

 tory nerves, and the rudimentary condition of the nasal bones. 



The Mysticete only are distinguished by the loose connection 

 of the rami of the lower jaw at the symphysis. 



c. Those not differentiating from the Cetaceans, or even from 

 sub-orders, but onlj' from minor types, viz., the non-consolidation 

 of cervical vertebroe, the smaller number of vertebne (50 to 53 

 against " at least" 60), the articulation of the ribs, the absence of 

 asymmetry of the bones on each side of the head, and the presence 

 of a lachrj^mal bone. 



The Iniidse, Platanistidae, and others, have as completel3'^ sepa- 

 rated cervical vertebrae as the Manatidae. 



The number of vertebra is less in Inia (41), Pontoporia (42), 

 Anarnacus or Hyperoodon (44 to 45), and others, and is, at the 

 same time, of very slight taxonomic value. 



The articulation of the ribs is only of family value. 



The asymmetry of the cranial bones is most evident in the 

 Plnjseteridse^ very slight or almost none in many Denticete, and 

 is not greater in the Mysticete than in the Sirenians. 



The lachrymal bone is evident in the family'' of Ziphiids, and in 

 the Mysticete. 



Of course, then, onl}' the characters differentiating the Sirenians 

 as a whole from the Cetaceans as a whole can be considered as 

 diagnostic or determinative of differences. Tlie other alleged dis- 

 tinctions decrease in value in ratio to their restriction to subordi- 

 nate groups. 



But in addition to the characters alleged to differentiate the 

 Sirenians from the Cetaceans, others may be found in the modi- 

 fications of the brain, heart, etc., and all together ampl}'^ support 

 the validity of the distinction of the ordinal separation of the 

 Sirenians from the Cetaceans, but they do not prove the propriety 

 of their ordinal union with an}'' Ungulates. This must be proved 

 by the discovery of at least one character exclusivel}^ common to 

 the Sirenians and Ungulates ; we now propose to inquire if there 

 be such. 



2d. Characters common and confined to the Sirenians and the 

 Ungulate animals^ or to any of the subordinate groups of Ungulates.. 



These may be examined under several heads. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



a. Characters exclusively shared with all Ungulates. 



None. 



h. Cliaracters exclusivelj- shared with all Pachj'derm Ungulates ; 

 that is, with the Suiform Artiodactyle Ungulates, the Perissodac- 

 tjle Ungulates, and the Proboscideans. 



None. 



c. Characters exclusively shared with all the Suiform Artiodac- 

 tyle Ungulates. 



None. 



d. Characters exclusively shared with all the Perissodactyle 

 Ungulates. 



None. 



e. Characters exclusively shared with all the Proboscideans. 

 None. 



Thus does it appear that in the whole argument, no characters 

 have been adduced which are common to all the Sireuians and the 

 Ungulates, or even to them and any of the major subdivisions of 

 the latter group. It is true that it is especially stated that the 

 Manatee agrees with the Pachyderms and differs from the Ceta- 

 ceans in the articulation of the ribs with the vertebrae, the form 

 of the scapula, the position of the occipital condyles, and the union 

 above of the parietal bones, and the inference might be justifiable 

 from the context that the characters specified were confined to, as 

 well as common to, the two groups, but such is not the case, for 

 all the characters in question are shared with quadruped mammals 

 generall}'. Being thus general, the characters are not decisive of 

 immediate relation and must be excluded as common property. 



It remains to examine into the taxonomic value of the other 

 characters enumerated, which are now reduced to types of no more 

 than family, and sometimes of inferior value. 



/. The Manatee is said to resemble the Hippopotamxis in the 

 'orbits almost entirely encircled with bone," and in the lower jaw 

 that is, " in its curved form, descending angle, and symphysis." 



As to the encircled orbits, the nearest allies to the Manatee 

 have them open behind, and the nearest ally of the Hippopotamus 

 {CIiu>7-o])sis, belonging to the same family and ver}' nearly related) 

 has them also open behind ; therefore, the slight taxonomic value 

 of the character becomes at once evident. 



As to the similarit}' of the lower jaw, the writer is unable to 

 perceive it, and the related forms of Sirenians and Hippopota- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



midai differ much in the special characters alluded to. At any 

 rate, any slight superficial resemblance that may be imagined is 

 so completely offset b^' the fundamental differences betweeii the 

 two types as to the lovver jaw, and the superficial differences in 

 each of those types respectively in the modifications in question, 

 as to deprive it of any taxonomic significance. 



g. The Manatee is said to resemble the Tapir in the humerus, 

 the nasal region, and the molars. 



" The humerus somewhat resembles the human femur in its 

 upper extremity ; in its low'er portion, it more nearly resembles, 

 both in shape and size, the humerus of the Tapir than of anj- other 

 Pachyderm." The likeness is rather confined to size ; the simi- 

 larity in shape is so vague as to make it a matter of opinion 

 whether it is most like the humerus of the Tapir or some other 

 Pach3'derm : the statement may be best met bj'the observation that 

 there is no such definite likeness as there is between the corres- 

 ponding bones of the Tapir, Rhinoceros, and Horse, compared 

 among themselves. 



" In the great length of the nasal opening ... in its hori- 

 zontal plane . . . and in the shortness of the nasal bones 

 (which cover only a small portion of the nasal cavitj'), ftie skull 

 of the Manatus comes nearest to the Tapir among living Pachy- 

 derms." It is merely in the length of the " nasal opening" that 

 there is any resemblance between the Manatee and Tapir ; they 

 differ in tolo in the contiguous bones, and especially in the form 

 and relation of the nasal bones. 



"The molars [of Manatus] resemble, according to Mr. Owen, 

 the teeth of some of the fossil tapiroid Pachydermata." So do 

 they, in the same general way, resemble the teeth of the Probosci- 

 dean Dinotheriids, and those of the Marsupial Diprotodonts, and 

 they di!fer strikingly therein from their immediate relatives. We 

 have, therefore, double evidence of the slight significance of such 

 resemblances, which, it is to be remarked, is also not a close but 

 a superficial one. 



Conclusions. 



In fine, this analysis of all the characters enumerated as evi- 

 dence of the affinity of the Manatee and Pachyderms elicits no 

 characters that are at the same time common to and confined to the 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



same types, and therefore diagnostic of the combined tj-pes. All 

 the cliaracters are referable to the following categories: 



1st. Cliaracters differentiating the Manatee from tlie Cetaceans, 

 which (after proper restrictions) are granted, and more tlian 

 granted. 



2d. Characters common to generalized and quadruped mammals, 

 and therefore not distinctive. 



3d. Characters confined to distant isolated and specialized types 

 of subordinate value, and whose very isolation and specialization 

 are evidence of their slight taxonomic significance. 



There is not a question or alternatives, as might be supposed 

 from the arguments noticed, between the Cetaceans or the Pach^-- 

 derms. Even if all the differences urged as distinctive of the 

 Sirenians from the Cetaceans were conceded, the views here 

 advocated that the Sirenians are a distinct order would loom 

 forth in proportionately more imposing form, but such differences 

 cannot be cast into the scale of the Pach3'derms, as evidences of 

 affinity with them, since tliey are of either a more generalized or 

 specialized value. 



The Sirenians not Pachyderms. 



In view of these facts, it seems evident that we must answer 

 the question proposed ("From these differences must we not 

 remove the Manatus from Cetacea and place it among Pachy- 

 dermata, where it stands in the same relation as do the seals 

 among the other Carnivora?") decidedly in the negative as to the 

 latter and capital clause (but affirmatively as to the former and 

 subordinate one). This we are more prepared to do after having 

 ascertained that the advocate who has found no characters com- 

 mon and confined to the Manatee and the Pachyderms ha"S found 

 several characters common to and confined to the Manatee and the 

 Cetaceans. 



It may be added, too, that some of the characters which are, in 

 a measure, shared b}' peculiar forms of Sirenians and Ungulates 

 are adaptive or tcleological modifications, having reference, how- 

 ever, to analogous rather than identical ends, and even requiring 

 some effort of the imagination to detect the resemblance supposed 

 to exist. They are special characters gained by highly modified 

 forms, whose well-ascertained affinities forbid the idea of tlieir 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 271 



inheritance from a common stock, and which equally forbid the 

 idea of considering them as indications of affinity or likeness even 

 from a metaphysical point of view. 



Further Considerations. 



Among other characters supposed by various authors to justify, 

 or even render "too evident not to be immediately appreciated,"* 

 the relations of the Sirenians and even true Cetaceans to the 

 Pachyderm Ungulates, are the considerable relative size and co- 

 ordinate increase of special parts, "the thick and naked skin," 

 " the variable and irregular teeth," as well as station. The varia- 

 bility and wide range in size and concomitant development within 

 the limits of a strictly natural group is, however, evidence of the 

 little value of the character, the skin is not naked in any Pachy- 

 derms, and it is not obvious how irrelative variability in dentition 

 is indicative of affinity when it presents no other elements of 

 similarity for comparison. Finally, even conceding the value of 

 station as an element for the determination of ordinal affinities, 

 it is not " obvious" why the horses, the rhinoceroses, and allied 

 t3'pes, should be regarded as pre-eminently frequenters of rivers 

 and marshes. To the writer, at least, the affinities claimed are 

 not evident. 



Genealogy of Sirenians. 



The special relations among themselves of the Sirenians, at least 

 of those whose skeletal remains are in good part known, appear to 

 be tolerably evident, thanks to the labors of various zootomists, 

 but above all of Prof. Brandt." In Halitherium we have the most 



' " The relationship between the Cetacea [ Cete and Sirenia'] and the next 

 order ['^Parhyderma''''] that offers itself to our notice is too evident not to 

 be immediately appreciated. The thick and naked skin, the gigantic body, 

 the massive bones, the bulky head, and even the variable and irregular 

 teeth that arm the ponderous jaws, are all again conspicuous in the Pacht- 

 DERMATA ; and the river and the marsh, the localities frequented by the 

 latter, as obviously indicate the intermediate position which these animals 

 occupy between the aquatic and the terrestrial mamnialia." Jones's 

 (Thomas Rymer) General Outline of the Organization of the Animal King- 

 dom, 4th ed., 1871, p. 809, 2201. 



* Brandt (Johann Friedrich). SymbohB sirenologicte, [fasciculus I.,] 

 quibus praecipue Rhytince historia naturalis illustratur. .... (1845) 

 <;Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Fetersbourg. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



generalized tj^pe, manifested as such by the less specialized denti- 

 tion, as well as by such osteological characters, among others, as 

 the greater development of the representative of the pelvis (made 

 known by Kaup) and the larger and more approximated nasal 

 bones. 



The forms to be approximated to Halitheriiim, as the nearest 

 all}^, iSj in tlie present condition of our knowledge, a problem 

 concerning which a reasonable difference of opinion ma}' prevail, 

 Halicore and Manalus {Trichechus) each having claims to such 

 alliances. Brandt has, however, conjoined with it, as a more 

 immediate relation, the genus Halicore (to which naturally- suc- 

 ceeds Rhyiina)^ and has associated the three genera mentioned 

 in a single famil}', to which he has given the name Halicoridae} 

 The differences between those genera arc, however, of greater 

 taxonomic value than generic, and appear to well merit the 

 distinction of family rank, which has been already conferred 

 on them by several naturalists. "With such value, therefore, 

 those genera iiave been accredited now, but as the}' form a 

 natural series they have been combined in a special superfamily 

 (Hulicoruidea). The difference between the extremes of that 

 superfamily is, at least in some respects, greater than between its 

 most generalized t3pe and the remaining well-known members of 

 the order {Trichechidse or Ilanatidee) and to mark the limit 

 in a specialized direction of the series, the superfamily is adopted. 



The Manatidse {Trichechidse) succeed then, not as most nearly 

 related to the extreme term of the preceding series, but as so 

 nearl}' related to the proximal term as to perhaps even merit 

 further examination, whetlier they are not reall}' more nearl}^ 

 related to it than the dugongs, and consequentlj- better entitled 

 to be associated with it in contradistinction to the others. The 

 capital character of the Halicoridae of Brandt (the Halicoroidea 



Sixit'-me si'ric. Sciences niatheniatiques, physiques et naturelles. Tome 

 VII. Secontle partie : Sciences naturelles. Tome V. . 1849. Zoologie 

 ct physlologia, 1160, pi. 1 5. 



Symbohc sirenologicfc. Fasciculus II. etIII. Sireniorum, Pachj'derma- 

 tum, Zeuglotlontum et Cetaceornm onlinis osteologia comparata, nee non 

 Sireniorum generum monographije. ..... Petropoli, 18G1-C8. [-Ito., 3 p. 1. 



(383 -+- 1) pp. 9 pL] <Ib., VIP serie, Tome XII., No. 1. 



' The outlines of the brain, as illustrated by Brandt, seem to verify the 

 naturalness of this classification. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



of the present arrangement), that is, the depressed caudal vertebroe 

 and the development of transverse processes, has not bqen con- 

 firmed as to the Halitheriidae, and is applied on the supposition 

 that it is a co-ordinate of the other characters in which it approxi- 

 mates most to the dugongs. It must depend on future discovery 

 wliether tlie aggregate of common characters and the taxonomic 

 value of those characters confirm the present combinations. 



With respect to the Halicoridse and lihyfinidae, the conditions 

 of a natural sequence are apparently best fulfilled by the approxi- 

 mation of the former to the Halitheriidse. The Rlnjlinidse exhibits 

 a highly specialized modification in several features, and especially 

 in the absence of teeth and the length of the intestinal canal ; it, 

 however, affords a more generalized condition than the Halioridee 

 in other respects, and notably in the development of the carpal 

 bones, and cannot, therefore, b'e regarded as a derivative from the 

 Halitheridae family as now limited. But as it exhibits in all 

 respects a less generalized condition than the Halilheridse^ it must 

 be regarded as the result of development since the culmination oi 

 that type. The genealogical tree of the order may then be repre- 

 sented as follows : 



Proto-sirenian. 



(Halicoroidea) ( Trichechoidea) 



Trichechidoe 



Halitheriidce 



Halicoridae Rhytinidse. 



Various other extinct forms have been referred with more or 

 less reason to the order, but they are too little known to be intro- 

 duced with certainty into the system. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



OBSERVATIONS ON CHANGE IN STRUCTURE OF A LARVA OF DRYOCAMPA 



IMPERIALIS. 



BY THOMAS G. GENTRY. 



I desire to call the attention of the Acadeni}' to some import- 

 ant stnu'tural changes in a larva of Drijocampa imperialism Avhich 

 came under m}' observation during the early part of last August, 

 as they show sufficient reasons, in my opinion, for the withdrawal 

 of the imperialis of Drury, from the new genus of Dryocampa, 

 and its reinstatement iu the old one of Ceratocampa. Besides, 

 they afford additional proofs to the many which have already 

 been noticed by naturalists, of the incompetency of Darwin's 

 theory of natural selection in every case, to account for the origin 

 of species, by minute, indefinite, fortuitous variations, without 

 the aid of other and more important causes. 



In this vicinity, during the last four years, I have found the 

 larva of Dryocampa imperialis feeding principally upon the leaves 

 of Juniperits communis and J. Virginiana^ and occasionally upon 

 some few species of Pinus ; but prior to the above time, so far as 

 I have been able to determine, it has never been observed feeding 

 upon the various species of Juglans, etc., in company with the 

 larva of G. regalis. 



At the time above mentioned I found the larva of what I 

 supposed to be the C. regalis feeding on an English walnut. I 

 felt no little surprise at the unusual appearance whicli it pre- 

 sented, and I was at first somewhat dubious, whether to refer it 

 to G. regalis or D. imperialism as it contained marked characters 

 of both. If it had been in one of its earliest stages, it would not 

 have excited wonder since the young of the two bear such a close 

 resemblance to each other; but this specimen had attained the 

 period of its final change. In size, color, and the nearly equal 

 development of the spinous projections of the dorsal surface of 

 the thoracic segments, it agreed Avith C. regalis; in the diminu- 

 tiveness of the abdominal projections, and in the moderately sized 

 hairs which rather closely invested the worm upon the superior 

 and lateral surfaces, it agreed with D. imperialis. I might add 

 that the chrysalis approximates the genus Ceratocampa in general 

 appearance, and in the conformation of the terminal appendage 

 or spine, more nearly than Dryocampa. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



These characters would seem to imply a case of hybridism, but 

 I think differently. Having raised scores of the males and 

 females of both species in the same box, I have never observed a 

 single irregular union the males of both invariably seeking their 

 own kind. So deeply is the sexual instinct implanted in them 

 that the females, ratlier than submit to copulation with species 

 essentially unlike, deposit their ova unfertilized. I am inclined 

 to the belief that G. i-egalis, l)eing a higher type of insect than D. 

 imperialis had been evolved from the latter in obedience to inter- 

 nal changes brought about through the medium of nutrition; said 

 changes having been moderately sudden instead of slow and 

 gradual. 



That nutrition plays such an important part in the evolution of 

 species, may seem to be speculation, without facts to sustain it. 

 If nutrition should be proved to be the means by which the sexes 

 in insects are controlled, as a paper in " The American Naturalist," 

 b}' Mrs. Mary Treat, would indicate, I cannot discern why it should 

 not be applicable to a certain extent to the production of species. 



In the case under consideration, the change from diet contain- 

 ing but a small percentage of nutritive matter, as leaves of 

 conifers possess, to more nutritious food, has, in my estimation, 

 been the agent in producing the changes above indicated. That 

 these changes have not been going on for indefinite periods, but 

 have been the work of a short time, I think is evident. 



If, through the medium of nutrition, D. imperialis is brought 

 to assume many of the prominent characters of C. regalis, I do 

 not see the propriety of placing the former in a distinct genus 

 from the latter, in consequence of a slight difference in the size of 

 the antennae, and in the position of the posterior wings in a state 

 of rest in the adult state : as the close resemblance which obtains 

 between the two larvae when young, seems to imply a near rela- 

 tionship. Harris, in referring D. imperialis, of Drury to Dryo- 

 campa, did so under considerable hesitation. The fact that there 

 is such a near alliance, backed up by those set forth in this paper, 

 if they are rightly interpreted, would seem to warrant its rein- 

 statement in the old genus Ceratocampa, 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



May 6, 1873. 

 Dr. Carson, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 



Double Flowers in Epigsea repens. Mr. Thomas Meefian ob- 

 served, that on several occasions, during the few past year.**, it 

 had been noticed among the variations in nature^ tliat the ten- 

 dency to produce double flower was, by no means, the special 

 prerogative of the florist to produce. Many of our commonest 

 wild flower, which no one would think of cultivating, had double 

 forms in cultivation which were no doubt originally found wild. 

 Thus we had a double Ranunculus acris, Banunculus bulbosus, 

 li. Ficaria, R. repens^ and some others. He had himself placed 

 on record the discover}^, wild on the Wissahickon, of a double 

 Sa.rifraga Virginica, and this season a fellow member, Dr. James 

 Darrach, had found, in the same location, a doul)le Trailing Arbu- 

 tus, Fpigaea repens. There were, in plants, two methods by which 

 a double flower is produced. The axis of a flower was simpl}^ a 

 branch very much retarded in its development, and generally 

 there were, on this arrested branch, man^' nodes between the 

 series forming the calj'x or corolla, and the regular stamens and 

 carpels, which were entirely suppressed. But when a double 

 flower was produced, sometimes these usually suppressed nodes 

 would become developed, in which case there was a great increase 

 in the number of petals, without any disturbance in the staminal 

 characters. But at other times there Avas no disturbance of the 

 normal ciiaracter of the axis. The stamens themselves merely 

 became petaloid. This was the case in the Epigsea^ now found by 

 Dr. Darrach. He Avas not alone in calling attention to these 

 facts in wild flowers. Dr. Gray and others had recorded instances 

 in the American Naturalist. 



Influence of Cohesion on Change of Characters in Orchideee. 

 Mr. M. also said that in tlie early part of the winter he had 

 exliibitod some flowers of Phaius Tanker mllse, in which, by the 

 mere cohesion of one of the dorsal jjetals with the column, a 

 flower differing very mucli from the general condition was the 

 result ; and that it was evidently the direction of nutrition 

 towards the production of a spur, which resulted in the formation 

 of the labellate petal which gave such a distinguishing character 

 to the general orchidcai flower. At that time he liad observed 

 that ver3^ early in the morning a ver^- small secretion, from what 

 appeared to be incipient glands, miglit be seen at the exterior 

 base of tlie outer petals, and that there was no improbabilit}' that 

 in time an orchi<l would be 2)roduced, whicli would have, from 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



tliese glands, three spurs and their petals, giving the flower the 

 appearance of an Aquilegia. Since that time Dr. Maxwell T. 

 Masters, .in the April 12tli issue of the Gardeiwr^s Chronicle^ 

 notices the receipt of a Phaiiis Wallichii in which there had been 

 produced three spurs and regular petals, looking, Dr. M. says, 

 rather like those of a gladiolus than of an orchid. This confirma- 

 tion of the views, suggested in the observations referred to, indi- 

 cate that we were on the right track as regards idea of the floral 

 structure. 



3Iovemenfs in Stigmatic Loheii. Mr. Meehan further remarked 

 that at former meetings he had brought to the attention of the 

 Academy, that though it was long known that the flattened lobes 

 of the pistil in Mimxilus would close on being touched, as rapidly 

 and in the same manner as the leaves of tlie Dionsea muscijnda, 

 it did not seem to have been noted that the power was possessed 

 by many other genera of Scrophulariacsea, and he had recently 

 recorded the fact that the power extended to Bignonia in an 

 allied natural order. It would be as well to call tlie attention of 

 the Academy to the fact that in the current number of the Lon- 

 don Journal of Botany^ Mr. Kitchener has a note on the move- 

 ment in Mimulus, regarding it as an arrangement to render the 

 fertilization of the plant, by its own pollen, highly improbable. 

 If it were not for the closing of the lobes on the entrance of an 

 insect, pollen would be deposited Avhen the insect makes its exit ; 

 but the closing of the lobes on the entrance prevents this. On 

 the other hand, when the pollen covered insect enters another 

 flower and touches the open pistil it receives and closes on foreign 

 pollen. As the common trumpet flower of our gardens, Bignonia 

 radicans, is easy of access, he hoped that the members interested 

 in this branch of science would make personal observations the 

 coming season. 



May 13. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-eight members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Observations on Nests of Sayornis fuscus." By Thos. G. 

 Gentr3^ 



Prof. Cope exhibited and described some extinct turtles from 

 the Eocene strata of Wyoming. One of these was named 



Trionyx heteroglyptus, Cope. 



Carapace broad, flat, concavely truncate behind. Free portion 

 of costal bones short. The last pair of costal bones are in con- 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tact 1)}' a common suture by about two-tliirds their width, tlic 

 anterior portion being separated by the last vertel)ral bone. 

 There is a great difference in the sculpture of the middle of the 

 carapace and its lateral portions. The former region is closely 

 ribbed longitudinall}', the intervening grooves being mostly un- 

 interrupted. On the middle portions of the costals the ridges are 

 more or less broken up, and distal!}' they are very delicate, form- 

 ing an isosculating pattern inclosing small pits. On the last 

 costal they retain their ridge like character. The posterior verte- 

 brals are marked by a single groove down their middle. 



Width of carajjaee at antepenultimate costal bone . 0.235 m. 

 Length from front of do. backwards . . . .095 



Width of do. costal distally ..... .048 



Len2;th of last two vertebrals ..... .037 



ExcaA'ated from the Bridger bed on the summit of Cliurch 

 Butte by the writer. A new genus, Plastomenus, Cope, was 

 described as allied to Trionyx ? No marginal bones of the cara- 

 pace except a nuchal: extremities of ribs little or not projecting 

 bcA'ond costal bones. Plastron united with carapace by one or 

 two tooth-like processes of the hyposternal bones. An anterior 

 production of the hyosternal inclosing a median fontanelle and 

 uniting by a broad suture with a clavicle (episternal). 



This genus is highly interesting as connecting more or less 

 nearly the genus Trionyx yvith the Chelydrine form Anostira. It 

 is represented bj' several si^ecies in the Bridger Eocene, all of 

 which have the sculpture of both of the genera named. The 

 plastron is ossified nearly as m Anoatirn ; but in the numerous 

 specimens obtained there Avas not one marginal bone. Never- 

 theless the strong emargination of the proximal end of the second 

 costals proves the presence of a nuchal marginal whicli does not 

 exist in Trioynjx ; if there were other marginals they must have 

 been small and inclosed in a cartilaginous margin. The first 

 costals were much shorter than tlie second, and much as in Trio- 

 nyx. A costal process of the first dorsal extends backwards and 

 was attached by sutin-e to the second costal bone, just in front of 

 its capitulum, as in Trionyx^ Chelyih'a^ etc. A singular sternal 

 bone accompanies the specimens of P. thomasii and P. triony- 

 choidcs,, but partially fractured in both cases so as to leave its 

 position uncertain. It can be nothing else than the median portion 

 of a hyosternal with the outer extremity wanting. It bounds a 

 fontanelle interiorlv, W'hich nearly- reaches the hyposternal; ante- 

 riorly it has sutures for both mososternum and clavicle. It is 

 entirely unlike anything in Trionyx ; it is thickened towards the 

 median lino and strongly sculptured externally. The hyo or 

 h3'posternal in the " bridge" indicates that portion to have been 

 long, and about as wide as is usual in Trionyx. Its free edge is 

 thin ; the sutural union with the other component bone complete. 

 The type of the genus is P. thomasii (Trionyx thomasii, Cope). 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



Other species have been referred by me to Anosiira. These arc 

 P. trionychoides^ P. oedemius, P. molopinus^ and a larger form, P. 

 muUifoveatus. 



May 20. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 

 The following papers were presented for publication : 



"Description of new species of Orthoptera, collected in Nevada, 

 Utah, and Arizona, by the Expedition under Lieut. George M. 

 Wheeler." By Cyrus Thomas. 



" Observations on the Habits of the Neuters of Formica san- 

 guinea." By Thos. G. Gentry. 



Lilium Wasliingtonianum. Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to a 

 paper by Prof. Alphonso Wood, entitled a Sketch of the Natural 

 Order of Liliacese of the Pacific coast, published in the volume of 

 the Proceedings for 1868, in whicli he describes a "new species" 

 of Lilium, as L. Washingtonianum, giving, as a reason for the 

 name, that it was generally known as the " Lady Washington" 

 by the miners. Prof. W. said, in his paper, that it was remarkable 

 so fine a plant had been overlooked by other botanists. It so 

 happens that it had not been overlooked, but had been described 

 ten years previously b}- Dr. Kellogg, in the Proceedings of the 

 California Academy for 1858. Through the unusual circumstance 

 of two authors employing the same name, the confusion and 

 trouble which loose and careless habits in describers bring on 

 students, in the present case, will not be great; yet it is but just 

 to Dr. Kelloofg that this correction should go into the records of 

 the Academy. 



On a Species of Delphinus By Dr. H. C. Chapman. Tiie 



presentation of a specimen of a male dolphin to the Museum this 

 evening gives me the opportunity^ of calling attention to some 

 points in the economy of the Cetacea, and of noticing that the 

 structure of the specimen before us offers a good illustration of the 

 descriptions given by Cuvier, Owen, and others, of this order of 

 mammalia. 



Of the external characters the most striking are, tlie well- 

 developed caudal fin, the effective instrument of locomotion ; the 

 dorsal and pectoral fins, the blow hole, the very small external 

 opening of the organ of liearing, and the genital aperture. 



The digestive system exhibits a highly complex stomach, divided 

 into several cavities, the esophagus and duodenum being large. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



There is no doinarcation between small and large intestines, but 

 they nre of great length. This is as might be expected when one 

 considers the vast amount of nutriment required by a lung- 

 breathing animal living under such conditions of existence. 



The circulation of the blood offers us interesting peculiarities 

 in the existence of vast plexuses, the breaking up of the brachial 

 and other arteries into rete mirabile. Of the distribution of the 

 arteries, the intercostals are the most remarkable. They are 

 developed, twisted, interlaced to such an extent, as to give the 

 appearance of a large thoracic gland, Ibrmerly in fact described as 

 such. By this arrangement of the intercostal and other arteries 

 there are formed large reservoirs of arterialized blood, enabling 

 the animal no doubt to remain submerged for long periods of time. 



The dividing of the brachial artery into numerous branches has 

 been explained by reference to the shortness of the pectoral fin or 

 upper extremity, but this distribution has been observed in certain 

 Lemurs and other animals, in which the upper extremity is well 

 developed. 



The lungs were large in the specimen before us, and the trachea 

 gave off a third bronchus. 



The kidney was divided into many distinct lobes, each of which 

 was supplied by a branch of the renal arter}-. 



In conclusion, we take the opportunity of impressing the 

 members with the importance of obtaining as man}- specimens of 

 the Cetacea as possible. Naturalists have experienced much 

 difficulty in identif\'ing the different members of this order, due 

 no doubt to their want of material. 



May 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-nine members present. 

 The following gentlemen were elected members : 



Dr. Thos. N. Penrose, U. S. N., C. Tower, Edw. Wright, Wm. 

 Massey, and Chas. E. Betticher. 



Dr. Thos. K. Frazer, of Edinburgh, and Dr. Wm. H. Jones, U. 

 S. N., -were elected Correspondents. 



The following paper was ordered to be published : 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



INFLUENCE OF NUTRITION ON SEX AMONG THE LEPIDOPTEEA. 

 BY THOMAS O. GENTRY. 



That the sexes among plants ^a're controlled bj^ the law of nu- 

 i7'ition, I think has been demonstrated b}^ Mr. Thomas Meehan, in 

 his communications to the Academ}^ of Natural Sciences, published 

 in its proceedings, in the American Nafuralid, and in other scien- 

 tific journals. The facts which appear in his contributions upon 

 this subject were the results of close research and careful stud3^ 

 To him must be ascribed, not only the credit of having established 

 the existence of the afore-mentioned law, but also the hint of its 

 potency in animals. 



Mrs. Mar}^ Treat, I believe, is entitled to the credit of first 

 showing its applicability in insects, in a paper which appeared in 

 the American Naturalist for March, 1873. The facts set forth in 

 her paper were founded on observations upon the larviB of some 

 species of Diurnal Lepidoptera during the summer of 1872. The 

 inferences which she drew from her observations were substantially 

 as follows: Whenever the larvae were deprived of food, or were 

 stinted in quantity, in the interval between the last two changes, 

 males were produced in the generality of cases ; but when the 

 food was regularly supplied, and in bulk necessary for the wants 

 of the larvse, the opposite sex was almost invariably produced. 



The facts which I have to offer bearing upon the genesis of 

 sexes, date back to the summer of 1871, whilst engaged in the 

 rearing of the larvse of many of our Twilight and Night Fliers, 

 and in the study of their various metamorphoses. The discovery 

 was the result of accident : I had confined a number of the larvse 

 of Atfacus cecropia^ A. poUjphemus^ A. pirometheus, and Saturnia 

 lo^ in a box, and had neglected to supply them with food for four 

 days. These larvse had advanced toward their final change, 

 possibl}' within a week or ten days. When I opened the box, the 

 greater number, which fell not much short of a score and a half, 

 had concealed themselves within cocoons ; the remainder still 

 wandered about, as if in quest of food, or seeking for some 

 opening through which to escape. These latter I removed from 

 the box to another, where they were provided with an al)undance of 

 food. Thej^ immediately recommenced feeding. After three or 

 19 




282 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fouj* da3's the}' began to assume the chrysalis form. After several 

 weeks I removed the usual silken covering, as has always been 

 m\^ custom, from the fact that past experience has shown me that 

 the development proceeds more rapidly, especially v/hen they are 

 kept in a room where the temperature through the cold season of 

 the yesxY falls not short of 10 Fah. I was surprised to find that 

 those which had changed first turned out to be males without ex- 

 ception, while the last batch, consisting of a dozen cocoons, proved 

 with but two exceptions to be females. Here was a problem to 

 solve, and in reflecting upon the subject it occurred to me that 

 possibly Mr. Meehan's lata of nutrition would furnish me with an 

 explanation of it. I conducted a series of experiments during the 

 ensuing summer, to test the truth of my observations. Accord- 

 ingly in August and September I procured besides specimens of 

 the larvce above mentioned, many of the Ceratocampa regalis, 

 Dryocampa imperialism Sphinx quinquemaculata, S. Carolina, 

 Snierinthus excsecata, and others of the Sphinx family. These 

 worms were taken while passing through the period intervening 

 between the last and the preceding changes. In nearlj' ever}' case 

 the w^orms were selected as shortlj' after the next to the last change 

 as was possible. These worms, amounting to three scores, were 

 divided into two equal sets and placed in separate boxes. The 

 one set was deprived of all food; the other was kept provided 

 with fresh, wholesome fare in abundance. The members of the 

 first set, after the expiration of a few days, began to appear ex- 

 ceedingl}' restless, as if looking for some convenient place to hang 

 their cocoons, or to deposit their chr3'salides. Those of the second 

 kept on feeding for a week or ten daj's, and then began to undergo 

 their final transformation. The difference in the appearance of 

 the two sets was quite perceptible. The former were small, and 

 presented the look of animals that had been ill-fed ; the latter 

 were large and plump, and showed evidence of having fed sumptu- 

 ously. After allowing sufficient time to elapse for the chrysalides 

 to form and harden, I began the work of divesting them of their 

 cocoons. 1 found that the chrj^salides of the one, as the greater 

 breadth of the antenna^, which was already mapped out, would 

 seem to indicate, were invariably males, while the other, judging 

 from the narrowness of the antenna^, proved with but two excep- 

 tions to be the opposite sex. The chrj-salides of the Sphinxes j^re- 

 sented a similar state of alfairs. The appearance of the perfected 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



moths proved tliat the sexes had been distinctly indicated b}' the dif- 

 ference in the breadth of the antennteas observed in the chr3'^salides. 

 During my observations and experiments the following additional 

 facts came under my notice : Firstly, that males are the inva- 

 riable result when the larvae are fed upon diseased or innutritions 

 food ; secondly, that in the fall of the year, when the leaves have 

 become deprived of their usual amount of sap, males are generally 

 produced ; thirdly, that more males are produced late in the sea- 

 son than females ; fourthlj^, that the sexes in early life cannot be 

 distinguished, or in other words, that there w^ould appear to be no 

 such distinction as male and female, the change being brougjit 

 about late in life through the medium of nutrition. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



April 3, 1873. 



Meeting of the Conchological Section. 



Dr. W. S. W. RuscnENBERGER, Director, in the chair. 



Dr. F. A. Hassler presented the following memorandum of 

 experiments by Wm. M. Gabb and himself to ascertain the tena- 

 city of life in Liltorina muricata. The specimens, 140 in number, 

 were collected bj' Mr. Gabb in St. Domingo, September, 1870, and 

 hung in a basket in his office. 



A few (5 or 6) were moistened after three months, then each 

 month until May, 1871, when all were alive. Ma}^, June, July, 

 and August, 1871, 25 were moistened each month, and all found 

 to be living except 2 in July and 2 in August. These were each 

 month laid aside and not moistened again until September. At 

 this time 40 of the original lot remained, all were moistened, and 

 29 found to be alive. In September, of the 100 which had been 

 moistened during May, June, Julj', and August, 89 were alive. 

 The 118 living ones were all placed together. 



Feb. 18, 1872, the lot was again moistened and about 60 revived 

 at once, and after several hours all but 24 were or had been 

 crawling. These 24 were rejected. 



March 30, 1872. Of the remaining 94, 10 were moistened, 9 

 were alive ; these 9 were placed aside with a few which had given 

 evidence of life since the last experiment, Feb. 18. 



Sept. 18. All moistened and found living; they were also all 

 alive in December. 



Feb. 12, 1878. Two found to be dead, and were separated from 

 the others. 



March 26. All moistened, and though exposed for three da^'s, 

 only one began to crawl ; this one was separated, also 27 others 

 which were known to be dead, leaving 65 undetermined. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



May 1, 1873. 



Meeting of the Conchological Section. 

 Dr. RuscHENBERQER, Director, in the chair. 



Mr. Tryon called attention to an interesting series of land and 

 fluviatile Mollusca from Utah, presented this evening. 



These shells were collected by the Wheeler Exploring Expedi- 

 tion, acting under authority of the U. S. Engineer Office at 

 Washington. 



The specimens of Helix .ntrigosa, Gould, exhibit every variation 

 of form from the typical shells with depressed rounded whorls 

 and smooth surface, to those with several revolving raised lines 

 and a carinated periphery ; in the latter condition they are iden- 

 tical with H. Heniphillii, Newcomb (Amer. Journ. Conch, v. 165, 

 1869, "White Pine Mining District"). In others, again, the 

 raised lines are more numerous and sufficiently prominent to be 

 called ribs, and the periphery is not carinated ; in this state they 

 are H. Raydeni, Gabb (Am. Journ. Conch, v. 24, 1869). 



The latter species has been heretofore considered to belong to 

 a new generic type for America, being the onh' species having 

 revolving ribs : its nearest relationship was apparently with a 

 small group of Madeiran Helices. The form of the shell, its 

 external appearance, and the closely approaching extremities of 

 the labrum, connected by a callus upon the parietal wall, reminds 

 one of Gyclostoma ; but no opercula were obtained with the fifty 

 odd specimens in semi-fossilized condition, collected by Prof. F. 

 V. Haj'den, in Webber Canon, Utah. 



It is extraordinary that any species should be found to vary so 

 much as does H. sti'igosa, in those characters which have hei'eto- 

 fore been regarded as most persistent and distinctive. It is much 

 easier to imagine the growth lines developed into ribs, than a 

 form in which the gi'owth lines are crossed by revolving ribs. In 

 H. Idahoensis, Newcomb (Ibid. ii. 1, 1866), we find the surface 

 raised into sharp i-ibs parallel with the lines of accretion, and, as 

 in all other respects, this species does not appear to differ from 

 strigosa; it is very probable that Idahoensis will also prove to be 

 a variety of this protean species. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Included in the collection are two specimens of the genus 

 Trijonia, Stimpson. This curious little genus was heretofore 

 considered to be restricted to the Colorado Desert of southern 

 California, where, in a fossilized condition, it exists in such num- 

 bers as frequently to cover the surface of the ground. Two 

 species have been described, viz., the type T. (Melania) exigua, 

 Conrad, of which Melania protea, Gould, is a synonym, and 

 Tryonia clathrata, Stimpson. The two Utah specimens are 

 probably T. exigua. 



The genus Tryonia is included in a group of very small species 

 of Amnicolidffi, having the whorls oruameuted by ribs, nodules, or 

 spines; it includes the genera 



Faludestrina, Orb., 1841. West Indies and S. America. 



Pyrgula, Crist and Jan. 1832. Europe.* 



Fotamopyrgus, Stimpson, 1865. New Zealand. 



In addition to the above, the collection includes Succinea 

 lineata, W. G. Binney, Linmaea pa/usirts, Miill., L. stagnalis, 

 Linn., and L. desidiosa, Say, Physa elhptica. Lea, and Planorbis 

 trivolvis, Say ; the latter very large specimens with the margin of 

 the aperture expanded like those from the St. Lawrence River, 

 described by Mr. Whiteaves as PL macrostomus. 



' Mr. John Wolf has described Pyrgula scalariformis, from the post 

 pliocene near Tazewell, Illinois River. Other minute species may be de- 

 tected hereafter, when our rivers are more carefully explored, as in France 

 a number of new species have rewarded the minute research of recent 

 collectors. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



June 3. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two members present. 



Fertilization of Pedicidaris Canadensis. Mr. Thomas Meehan 

 drew attention to the structure of the flower of Pedicidaris Cana- 

 densis, in which it was evident self-impregnation was impossible, 

 and there seemed to be no special arrangements for fertilization 

 by distinct agency, as there were in so many allied plants. In this 

 case the stamens were included in the closely compressed arch of 

 the corolla, and, with the anthers, were directed retrorsely to the 

 pistil, which at an early stage, and long before the maturity of the 

 pollen, was protruded beyond the corolla, rendering self-fertiliza- 

 tion almost impossible in this flower. But the flowers were al- 

 ways abundantly fertile, and though the arrangements were such 

 as seemingly to afford no chance even for insects to aid in the 

 fertilization, it was also probable that in some way it was accom- 

 plished by them. Both last season and this he had devoted 

 some time to watching the plant, but failed to find any clue to the 

 process. A species of Bombus seemed to have the plant especially 

 under its charge, visiting the flowers in great numbers ; but they 

 bored throuoh the corolla on the outside of the tube for the saccha- 

 rine matter, and the anthers or pollen did not seem to be in the 

 least disturbed by this. Still it was so highly probable that in 

 some way some insect aided in the cross-fertilization of these 

 flowers, that it might serve a useful purpose to direct attention to 

 it, as others with time and opportunity' might discover what he 

 had failed to find. 



June 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



Mr. Gentry made the following remarks : 



At the last meeting of the Academy, Mr. Meehan made some 

 observations upon the peculiar structure of the flowers of Pedicu- 

 laris canadensis, observing that he had vainly watched them 

 during two seasons with the view of determining the manner in 

 which they were fertilized. He further said that he had noticed 

 that they received the attention of a species of bumble-bee, for the 

 sake of their honey, which in order to accomplish its purpose al- 

 ways bored a hole into the side of the tube. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



On Wednesdaj' morning last, I visited a spot where the plants 

 were growing hixuriantly, affording an interesting field for ohser- 

 vatiou. It was not long before I observed a Bovibus terreslris to 

 alight upon the outer side of the tube of a flower, at a distance of 

 three feet from me. At this distance it did seem as if the bee in 

 order to obtain the honey which the flower secretes, produced a 

 slit into the tube, as Mr. Meehan observed. But the movements 

 of the bee being so quick, and the distance too great to judge 

 accurately, I approached the insect by degrees, until I was within 

 three inches of it, when the whole process became apparent. The 

 bee, however, was so intent upon its labors, as not to take any 

 notice of me. 



The flower is composed of an erect tube, with a natural cleft 

 running along its lateral walls from above, through one-third its 

 entire length, presenting outwardl}^ apparently a mere crease, 

 from the manner in which the compressed margins of the upi)or 

 lip fit into the rolled-in edges of the lateral lobes of the under 

 lip. The upper lip is compressed, arched, and beaked, presenting 

 an aperture at the apex, through which passes a curved pistil, the 

 lower lip is reflexed, consisting of three lobes, one median and 

 two lateral, assuming a platform arrangement. Enclosed within 

 the upper lip are four stamens, didynamous, with their anthers 

 turning backwards, facing each other ventrally. When ripe these 

 authors split upon the inner side, thus giving a fancied resemblance 

 to an oval snuff-box, thrown backwards upon its hinges. Each 

 cell is filled with white pollen grains. 



Now when the bee alights upon the tube, by means of its tnnik, 

 it opens the natural cleft above alluded to, and having thus gained 

 a partial entrance, it would defeat its intention, did not the length 

 of the flower's tube when contrasted with that of the bee's trunk, 

 necessitate the admission of the entire head also. In this ojiera- 

 tion the lips of the flower are pressed ai)art, the margins of the 

 upi)er lip are separated to receive the head, and the pollen grains, 

 already ripe, by the consideral)le motion to which they are sub- 

 jected, becoujc dislodged from their cells, and fall down in a dense 

 shower upon the bee's back and head. Having obtained the 

 coveted sweet, it flies to another flower ui)on a diflerent stalk, as 

 I observed in a score of cases during two days ; l)ut before renewing 

 the preceding operations, stations itself awhile upon the lower 

 lip, its head coming in contact with the stigma of the pistil. Then, 

 Ijy means of the hairs that Hue the inner side of tlie tarsus of each 

 auterior leg, and the constant iiiblting together of the parts com- 

 prising its tropin or instrumenta cibaria, the attached pollen 

 grains are seut flying in every <lirection, sure to adhere to the 

 stigma. 



Whilst observing the above process, I also noticed that after 

 the lips had been pressed apart and were permitted to regain their 

 position, the upper lip, being somewhat elastic, sprung" back to 

 its place with considerable force, sending through the aperture, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



tlii'ongh which passes the pistil, a complete cloud of pollen, en- 

 veloping the stigma upon every side. 



This operation can be performed artificially, by taking hold of 

 the under lip with the left thumb and fore-finger, and })ulling the 

 upper lip backward, by the right, and then releasing the hold of 

 the latter : the upper lip springs to its place, spirting the pollen 

 through the aperture upon the left hand. From the a1)Ove it is to 

 be seen, that the i)lant has two chances of being fertilized one by 

 its own pollen, and the other by that of another. Although the 

 flower seeds abundantly, yet I am disposed to think that it is 

 mainly through the pOllen of another that the seeds become per- 

 fect. I incline to this opinion because, in an examination of many 

 pods, I noticed that a few seeds were found in a rudimentary 

 condition, apparently manifesting a tendency to abort, while the 

 majority were in a vigorous condition ; the former, doubtless, being 

 the etfects of self-fertilization in part, which, as is well-known, is a 

 degenerating process. 



I desire also to call attention to an interesting discover}^ which 

 I was enabled to make recently, whilst engaged in an examination 

 of a double flower of Ranunculus fasciculai^is. In the genus 

 Ranunculus, the corolla of a normal flower is made up of five 

 petals, each of which on the inner side of its basal part is usually 

 provided with a scale. This scale from its position is denominated 

 the nectariferous scale. 



In the specimen under consideration three of these scales had 

 assumed the character of petals, agreeing with the flower's true 

 petals in every particular except size, being but three-fourths the 

 dimension of the latter. It very frequently happens that we find, 

 in examining flowers, parts which we can refer to no organ with 

 which we have become acquainted. They appear to be distinct 

 from any of the whorls which make up a perfect flower, although 

 located among them and attached perhaps to them. All such 

 parts are designated as appendages. Under this category are 

 placed the scales that are characteristic of some species of Crow- 

 foot. 



Prof. Lindley thinks that these small appendages are barren 

 stamens united to the bases of the petals. This opinion I think 

 is a just one. 



From the facts here indicated it is reasonable to conclude, tliat 

 the double flowers of the Ranunculus do not alwaj^s originate by 

 true staminal metamorphosis, but sometimes by scale transforma- 

 tion ; also that nectariferous scales when they exist are barren 

 stamens, whicli favorable conditions may develop into true petals. 



Whilst examining several specimens of PotentiUa canadensis 

 lately, I was struck with the variableness displayed in the number 

 of seo-ments which constituted their outer or calvcine whorls. This 

 series in Fotentilht., as is well known, consists of five sepals, with 

 as many intermediate bractlets. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In the specimens to whicli I refer, I counted from seven to ten 

 bractlets. This numerical variation I am confident results from 

 the splitting, so to speak, of some or all of the primary bractlets, 

 as specimens were observed wliich exliibited all the transitional 

 forms, from a slight indentation at the apex to partial and comi)lete 

 division. 



June 17. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three members present. 



Laws of Sex in Juglans nigra. Mr. Thomas Meehan said he 

 had at various times during the past few years called the attention 

 of the Academy to specimens of numerous plants which illustrated 

 the principle that sex in plants was the result of grades of vitality; 

 or, as it had been suggested, viabilit}' ; and that this power of life 

 was a mere matter of nutrition; the highest grades of vitality 

 only producing the female sex. Almost any monoecious plants 

 furnished the necessary evidence of the truth of this position, 

 and wliat he had said or written on the subject had always been 

 done more to direct attention, and to lead others to examine plants 

 themselves, than that the facts were exhausted. He believed that 

 in the main the principle had been so generally accepted by natu- 

 ralists, that it seemed unnecessar}' for him to say any more on the 

 subject, but let it now work its own way. At the meeting of the 

 American Association, at Dubuque, last 3'ear, which he had not 

 the pleasure of attending, the subject was introduced; and though, 

 as he gathered from the public papers, the principle was to a cer- 

 tain extent admitted, objection was made that possiblj^ tlie weak- 

 ened shoot or axis bearing male flowers was a result of the pro- 

 duction, and if so it would sliow rather a great expenditure of 

 vital force in their formation, than afford a pi'oof of the principle 

 under discussion. He was astonished at the sugojestion at the 

 time, exhibiting as it did, he thought, a careless reading of his 

 papers; as he had stated, and exhibited the facts supporting the 

 statement to the Academy, that, especially in coniferte, the weak- 

 ening process had been going on for several seasons prior to the 

 production of male flowers. In the pine and spruce, for instance, 

 he had distinctly stated, that only tliose branches the most favorably 

 situated to derive the greatest benefit from nutritive forces bore 

 female flowers. These branches in time naturally became shaded 

 by succeeding growths. The partial shade was injurious to per- 

 fect nutrition. A few years of these circumstances weakened the 

 branch, and after being thus weakened, the male catkins appeared. 

 There were of course otlier agencies at work besides siiade ; what- 

 ever they were, the result in sex was the same. He did not think 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



it worth while to reiterate, at the time these objections were made; 

 but concluded to wait till this season, and introduce facts from 

 some plant not already named in connection witli that sexual law. 

 He now exhibited specimens of the common black walnut, 

 Juglans ?u'g'r'a, which furnished excellent illustrations of what had 

 been said on other occasions. Examining the tree at the flowering 

 season, it would be plainly seen by even a superficial observer 

 that there were three o;rades of sji-owino; buds. The larofest buds 

 made the most vigorous shoots. These seemed to be whollv devoted 

 to the increase of the woody system of the tree. Lower down the 

 strong last year shoots, were buds not quite so large. These made 

 shoots less vigorous than the other class, and bore the female 

 flowers on their apices. Below these were numerous small weak 

 buds, which either did not push into growth at all, or when they 

 did bore simply the male catkins. No one who gave this matter 

 any examination with the tree before him, would for a moment 

 entertain the idea that these branches and these buds had been 

 weakened b^^ the effort to produce male flowers. He was full}' 

 satisfied that any one who would go out into the woods and fields 

 for their own facts fresh from nature, would be abundantly satis- 

 fied that there is not so great expenditure of vital force in the 

 production of male flowers as there is in female flowers, and that 

 all he had advanced on the subject was fully borne out. 



June 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-six members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 



" The Pterostichi of the United States," By John L. LeConte, 



M. D. " Synonymical Remarks upon North American Coleoptera." 



By John L. LeConte, M.D. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : 

 E. C. Claghorn, Dr. Henry C. Eckstein, U. S. N., and Wra. H. 

 Rush, M.D. 



The following papers were ordered to be published : 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



OBSERVATIONS ON NESTS OF SAYORNIS FUSCTJS. 

 BY THOS. 0. GENTRY. 



It is the commonly received opinion that birds of the same 

 sjDecies uniformly- build their nests of the same materials and in 

 the same form and situation though they inhabit different climates. 

 This, however, is not invariably the case, as a few observations 

 will show. On the north branch of the Susquehanna, some 

 months since, I procured several nests of oiir common Phebe 

 bird, Sayornis fusciis, Baird, which in size, structure, and ma- 

 terials mUrht be taken as nests of species distinct from the one 

 under consideration. As these nests were found upon the hori- 

 zontal beams of a wagon-shed they would not seem to require 

 such compactness of structure as when built in more exposed 

 situations. 



After a careful examination of several nests from different 

 localities, I find that they are usually circular at the top, with a 

 depth externally, differing but little from the average diameter. 

 By measurement I obtain the following dimensions: Diameter 

 from side to side, 3^ in., depth 3 in. ; diameter of cavity within, 

 2^ in., making the thickness of the lateral walls ^ in.; depth of 

 cavity l^ in., indicating a thickness at the bottom of l^ in. These 

 nests are composed of fine roots, grasses, fine mosses, and hairs, 

 which are plastered together, and to the objects upon which they 

 are built, by pellets of mud ; within they are lined with soft grasses, 

 lint, hairs, and sometimes with wool and feathers. 



Number one of deviation is nearly circular, with an average 

 diameter of 4 in. and a depth of 2 in., being considerably de- 

 pressed. Diameter of cavity 2iin., depth 1 in.; thickness of lateral 

 walls I in.; at the bottom 1 in. The nest is constructed wholly 

 of the silk of corn, with a few strings and hairs on the inside for 

 a lining; the absence of moss and clay pellets being a noticeable 

 feature of the nest ; such ordinarily indispensable materials evi- 

 dently not being requisite, if the site of the nest aflbrds any cri- 

 terion of judging. 



Number two of these anomalous forms is circular, with a 

 diameter of .5 in., and a depth of 2^ in. on the outside ; within 2^ 

 in. in diameter, and 2 in. in depth ; lateral walls 1^ in. in thick- 

 ness ; inferior ^ in. The entire nest is composed of the inner 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



bark of the chestnut, plucked, doubtless, from fence rails, and 

 reduced to very fine strips for the inner part of the nest, and 

 gradually attaining a width of nearly one-fourth of an inch on 

 the exterior. 



In an intermediate form between the ordinary form and the first 

 deviation therefrom, I find the diameter 4^ in. externally', depth 

 2 in. ; cavity 2^ in., and depth 1^ in.; lateral walls each 1 in. ; in- 

 ferior ^ in. This nest is formed of fine grasses, hair, wool, and 

 an abundance of moss externally ; within it is lined by fine grasses 

 and hairs ; the absence of clay would seem to impl}' an unexposed 

 place for its site, to which theory the looseness of its structure 

 most assuredly adds weight. 



That a species which has always been known to build a nest 

 so characteristic as the pewee should deviate so considerably, 

 and suddenly, as it seems to be, from its ordinary habit 

 of nest-building, is remarkable. But such is the fact, as the 

 mother-bird was discovered in the act of incubation. It has been 

 suggested that possibly these nests were stolen propert}^, and not 

 the work of the bird in question. But this I am satisfied is not 

 the case. The individuals of some species do take forcible pos- 

 session of the abodes of others, or the cavities in which such are 

 secreted, but I have never known the intruders to occupy the 

 same, except in the case of Molothrus pecoris, Seo., of America, 

 and Cuculus canorus of England. As these birds never build, 

 but deposit their eggs in the nests of other birds, I am hardly 

 disposed to grant the propriety of considering them in this 

 light. It is well known that Troglodytes sedon, of Yerrill, does, 

 when prompted by a mischievous spirit, drive away Icterus Balti- 

 more, Daud., and Sayornis fuscus, Baird, from their rightful pro- 

 pert}^, and take up her abode therein, but not without having 

 previously constructed her rude nest of coarse sticks, well lined 

 with feathers and down. 



So strong is the attachment of birds to the nests of their own 

 construction, that the parental instinct is often lost sight of. 

 Proofs could be cited to sustain this assertion. One, however, 

 will suffice. Two years ago in Atlantic County, New Jersey, I 

 came across a nest of the robin, which on account of its curious 

 arrangement, I desired to possess. Unable to wait until the un- 

 fledged brood had taken their departure, I conceived the plan of 

 remoA'ing them to another nest of the same species, not so neatly 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



constructed and tastefully arranged. But, as I had anticipated, 

 the mother deserted her offspring ; the love for home predomi- 

 nating over ever}' other feeling. 



These deviations from the usual style of nest building by the 

 pewee would seem to argue against the belief generally enter- 

 tained, that instinct, being a positive determination given to the 

 minds of animals for certain purposes, must necessarily be perfect, 

 when viewed in connection with those purposes; but to say that 

 they doubtless iropl}' a chavge of instinct is to perplex the under- 

 standing by a perversion of language. But to ascribe these 

 changes to the operations of reason influenced b}'^ motives, does 

 seem to be the most rational view to take of the subject. That 

 reason does enter into the inferior creatures, and dictate man}' of 

 the changes of habit which mark their career, has been shown in 

 many instances ; but I cannot forbear to record one which came 

 under mj' observation in the spring of 1871. While watching a 

 pair of Ampelis cedrorum, Baird, engaged in the building of a 

 nest on a branch of an apple tree, it occurred to me, that by sup- 

 plying them with materials I might secure a nest neater and more 

 compact than those usually made. The birds entered into the 

 project with readiness, and carried away every piece of colored 

 string and cotton fabric with which I supplied them. After I had 

 ceased to furnish the materials they would fly repeatedly to the 

 branch where the articles were deposited, as if imploring my ser- 

 vices. The result was a nest firmer, more symmetrical, and more 

 elegant in proportions than any I had ever observed. If instinct 

 had been the controlling principle in this case, the birds would 

 not have given my labors so much attention; but admitting that 

 they had been actuated by reasoning faculties in their selection, 

 the whole thing is perfectly plausible. Instinct is always the same 

 thing ; it never advances, never retrogrades ; but reason tends to 

 improvement, when it can serve a good purpose. 



As the nests which form the subject-matter of this paper were 

 found within a short distance of each other, it would seem that 

 circumstances peculiar to the neighborhood had rendered a de- 

 viation from the common form necessary. Observation teaches 

 us that when danger or any other circumstance renders a change 

 in the character of the nest necessary, that deviation is made in 

 an equal degree and in the same manner by all the birds of one 

 species, and that it does not extend beyond the limits of the region 

 where alone it can serve a good purpose. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF ORTHOPTERA. COLLECTED IN 

 NEVADA, UTAH, AND ARIZONA, BY THE EXPEDITION 

 UNDER LIEUT. GEO. M. WHEELER. 



BY CYRUS THOMAS, PH.D. 



Washington, D. C, May 9th, 1873. 

 Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler, Dear Sir: Among the Orthnptera 

 collected by j'oiir expedition in NcA'ada, Utah, and Arizona, I find 

 several new and interesting species, and especially' tlie two follow- 

 ing, of wiiich I send the descriptions, that you may have them 

 published at as early a day as possible. 



Yours very respectfully', 

 (Signed) Cyrus Thomas. 



ACRIDIDiE. 



(EDIPODINI. 



Pedioscertetes, gen. uov. 



Back of the head ascending ; vertex rises in front of the eyes in 

 the form of a triangular pyramid ; frontal costa distinct above the 

 ocellus, fading below ; face sub-oblique. Pronotum regularly ex- 

 panding posteriorly; sub-tricarinate, the front lobes being rounded, 

 so that the lateral carinse are indistinct ; the median carina want- 

 ing, or but a minute line ; front margin truncate, hind margin 

 rounded ; the three transverse impressions distinct, but not pro- 

 found. Elytra and wings present. Posterior femora slender ; first 

 joint of the posterior tarsi as long as the other two. Metasternum 

 broad; the prosternum narrow, unspined, and without any tu- 

 bercle. Seen from above tapers considerably from the metathorax 

 to the head, which is quite narrow, but elongate perpendicularly. 



This resembles in general appearance Acrolophitus^ to which it 

 is closely allied, but from which it differs in wanting the crest on . 

 the pronotum, and in having the posterior margin of the pro- 

 notum rounded. 



P. Nevadensis, sp. nov. 



The tip of the vertex separated from the portion between the 

 eyes by a curved sulcus, which runs from the upper canthus of 

 one eye to that of the other ; this portion of the vertex is ob- 

 liquely ascending and triangular ; there are no median or lateral 

 foveolse. Frontal costa prominent and narrow between the eyes, 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and slightly sulcate; the portion below the ocellus indistinct, a 

 little broader than that above, expanding below and slightly sul- 

 cate ; lateral carina indistinct, parallel ; face somewhat oblique, 

 narrow. Eyes oblong, ovate, oblique. Antennae extending about 

 one-fourlh their length beyond the pronotum, robust, very sliglitly 

 depressed, and apparently enlarged toward tlie apex. Front lobes 

 of the pronotum rounded, sub-cylindrical; lateral carinne obsolete 

 on the front lobes, obtuse on the posterior lobe ; median carina is 

 but an indistinct line ; three transverse incisions distinct, but not 

 profound, the posterior one situated a little behind the middle; 

 the posterior border is regularly rounded, nearly semi-circular ; 

 the posterior lateral margin curves inward but makes no angle ; 

 the posterior lobe is distinctly broader than the head. 



Elytra of moderate width ; wings rather narrow, both extend 

 slightly beyond the abdomen. The abdomen is enlarged and 

 deep at the base ; the valves of the ovipositor slender and acute. 

 The posterior femora are quite slender, l)eing but slightly enlarged 

 at base ; posterior tibia? cylindrical. The body and legs more or 

 less covered by small hairs. 



Color (after immersion in alcohol). Dull greenish-yellow, 

 showing the original color to have been green, probably liglit pea- 

 green, which is almost entirely uniform on the head, tliorax, 

 elytra, and legs, without spots. The antennae are dusky at the 

 tips. There is a slight rufous tinge on the posterior lobe of the 

 pronotum, and base of the elytra ; the apical portion of the latter 

 is translucent; wings pale yellow at base pr(;bal)ly greenish-yel- 

 low in the living individual with a moderately broad fuscous 

 band across the disk, apex transparent with dark nerves. Spines 

 of the posterior tibia yellowish, very slightly or not at all tipped 

 with black. 



DimeriHions. ^ Length 1.25 in.; elytra .80 in.; posterior femora 

 .60 in.; posterior tibia; .65 in.; pronotum .25 in. 



ACRIDINI. 



ACKIDIUM. 

 A. SnosnoNE, sp. uov. 



Large size ; color, green without a dorsal stripe. 



Female. Vertex nearly horizontal, distinctly hexagonal, sud- 

 denly and angularly expanding in front of the eyes, flat. Frontal 

 costa prominent, sides parallel, sulcate, from the ocellus down- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



ward, above this somewhat gibbous and punctured ; lateral carinre 

 very prominent, parallel. Pronotum slightly expanding poste- 

 riorly ; coarsely and reticulately punctured ; median carina dis- 

 tinct, severed by the three transverse incisions. Elytra and wings 

 passing the abdomen. Cerci very short, broad at base, narrowed, 

 and rounded at the tip. Posterior femora much enlarged at the 

 base ; posterior tibiae considerably enlarged at the apex. Pro- 

 sternal spine robust, cylindrical, and nearly straight. Pectus 

 punctured. 



Color. Dark green. Ocelli transparent amber ; eyes brown ; 

 cheeks 3'ellowish with a dark green stripe extending downward 

 from the e^^es. The pronotum has some paler spots on the sides, 

 and sometimes the posterior lobe is tinged with brown. Elytra of 

 a uniform green, semi-transparent toward the apex, and some- 

 times faintly tinged with brown; wings hj'aliue, nerves and 

 nervules dark brown. Posterior femora greenish above and below, 

 raj's of the disk alternately white and green, the white raj^s being 

 the flat interspaces of the chevron ; internal face greenish-3'ellow. 

 Posterior tibise bright vermilion, the under surface being striped 

 with yellow ; spines yellow at base, tipped with black. Yenter 

 and pectus dark green, sometimes varied with dark brown. 



Dimensions. Length 2 to 2.5 in.; elytra l.Y to 2. in. ; posterior 

 femora 1.25 in.; posterior tibife 1.2 in. 



This fine species is very closely allied to A. emarginatum, JJlilev, 

 but differs from it in the following particulars. It has no dorsal 

 stripe ; the elytra are green or greenish instead of brownish-red ; 

 the hind femora do not have the black points on the upper margin 

 of the disk ; it does not have the black dots on the ventral seg- 

 ments ; it is also a larger and more robust species, being one of the 

 largest of this genus found in the United States. I should also 

 state that the cerci of the male, though broad as usual Avith the 

 section of the genus to which this belongs, instead of extending 

 horizontally along the sides, are curved over the apex ; and the 

 sub-anal plate is more than usually elongate, with the apical notch 

 slightl}^ rounded. 



The collection was made chiefly b}' Dr. Yarrow, who informs me 

 that the specimens are mostly from southeast Nevada and south- 

 west Utah. There are some other interesting and new si)ecies in 

 the collection, which will be described in Lieut. Wheeler's report of 

 his explorations. 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



OBSERVATIONS ON THE HABITS OF THE NEUTERS OF FORMICA 



SANGUINEA. 



BY THOMAS G. GENTRY. 



A few days ago, while engaged in the collection of Coleopteva 

 underneath stones and decayed logs, ray attention was attracted 

 by a nest of Formica sanguinea. Scattered over the ground to 

 receive the warmth of the sun, were numberless larvae of the ant, 

 in diverse stages of development. Some had apparently just es- 

 caped from the ova, while others were nearly ready to pass into 

 the condition of pupa?. 



Two external apertures of the nest were all that could be dis- 

 cerned leading to chambers below. Many neuters working ants 

 were observed performing the duties of nurses to the offspring. 

 On close examination they appeared to be divided into two classes : 

 one having the exclusive charge of the almost mature larvai; the 

 other, the care of the more feeble. 



As is customary with ants in an invasion of their territories, 

 the larvjB were removed to places of security-. Tlie larger grubs 

 were conveyed to a separate apartment b}' workers whose special 

 duty it seemed to be ; while the less vigorous were taken posses- 

 sion of by another set, and hidden away in another chamber of 

 the habitation. After the last individual of the former had been 

 cared for, I expected to see the first set come out and assist in the 

 removal of their more tender offspring, that were still l^'ing pro- 

 fusel}" about. But I was disappointed. AVith a view to test my 

 observations, I dropped several of these last into the mouth of the 

 first passage-way, tliinking that possibly the sight of these would 

 stimulate them to further exertions. But all my attempts to draw 

 them out were in vain. These larvse remained wiiere I had placed 

 them, until their own properly constituted nurses observed them, 

 when they were immediately seized and carried to appropriate 

 quarters. 



After the tumult had subsided, I opened the liorizontal channel 

 that led to the first chamber. It was about two inches in length 

 and half an inch beneath the surface. Here, packed awa}'' in a 

 commodious chamber, were a score or more of ants, each with the 

 object of its solicitude by its side. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Alarmed still more by this second intrusion, each seized a larva, 

 studiously avoiding the entrance to the main chamber, and hurried 

 it away to places of security among the adjoining leaves and 

 grasses. I am confident that the main nest was shunned, as the 

 parties passed within an eighth of an inch of it, and could readily 

 have entered, had there been any such intention. 



The conclusions I have to draw from these facts are the follow- 

 ing: 1st. The colony is divided into two sets of neuters, one 

 whose care it is to provide for the wants and security of the abler 

 and more mature, the other to look after the more helpless. 2d. 

 That the more vigorous are necessarily confined to superficial 

 cavities, since they need less care and attention, and in order to 

 avoid the time and trouble of constant removals in consequence 

 of the varied conditions of weather and surrounding circumstances 

 to which they are subjected, said removals seeming to be impracti- 

 cable in view of the weight and size of the fully-grown larvse. 3d. 

 That the young and tender are conveyed to deeper-seated chambers, 

 less likel}^ to be assailed b}^ an enemy, thus afibrding a better means 

 of continuing the species. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



July 1. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



Sex in Rhus cotinus. Mr. Thomas Meehan said JRhus cotinus, 

 the common mist tree, was described as having perfect flowers. 

 In a large quantity of seedlings growing on his grounds he found 

 thej'^ were dia3cious. There was not much novelty in this, as it 

 was now generally conceded that most if not all plants called 

 b}' old botanists polygamous, were practically dicecioiis, for what 

 appeared to be perfect flowers had either the male or female 

 flowers entirely inoperative. But in this case the distinction had 

 a practical value to ornamental planters, for he had found that 

 except in very rare instances onl}' the female plants produced the 

 hairy pedicles known as mist. Occasionally a male panicle of extra 

 viabilit}' would produce a few short hairs. In general the panicle 

 of male flowers died.awaj^as soon as the flowers faded. This 

 fact also illustrated his A'iew of the relative viability of the sexes. 

 One might say of this, as has been said of other illustrations, that 

 of course things die when their work is done. The male having 

 nothing more to do does not need so much vitalit}' as the female, 

 which has to live on, as it has much more woric to do. But this 

 reasoning he thought favors his own views, and seems so unanswer- 

 able, that it ought, years ago, to have suggested to some mind 

 the true law of vitalit}' in its relation to sex as it had done to his 

 own. It was enough for him that his facts were self-evident, that 

 there was not as much force spent on the production of male as 

 of female flowers. 



In the production of seed in Rhus cotinus, he also noted that 

 often two cai'pels were fully developed, and in some few cases three, 

 thus forming a three-celled capsule. 



July 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 

 Mr. Gentry made the following remarks : 



In some genera of Composite plants with ligulate ray and 

 tulnilar disk florets, the discoid t3-pc has been occasionally ob- 

 served in abnormal developments. A case of the kind came 

 under ni}- notice recently, while examining a plant of Rudbeckia 

 hirta, in which the ray florets were all tubular. The structure of 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 301 



eacli corolla was found to be identical with those of the disk, dif- 

 fering immaterially in size and color. Fully one-half of these 

 irregular forms were perfect and fertile, whilst the opposite con- 

 dition of affairs prevails in the normal flower. 



On the same day in which the preceding observations were 

 made, I noticed other plants of the same species, in which the 

 disk florets had grown to twice the usual magnitude, and had 

 dbfied their natural f hade of brown for the beautiful golden hue 

 so eminently characteristic of the outer circle of florets. Here 

 the essential organs of reproduction had, in a measure, aborted. 

 Upon the principle that excess of growth force has transformed 

 the sterile ray into fertile florets, and the same deficienc}' has 

 been instrumental in reducing the fertile disk florets alluded to, 

 to a partial state of abortion a principle so ably maintained in 

 the writings of Mr. Thomas Meehan the foregoing facts receive 

 a clear and comprehensive solution. 



Subsequently I was so fortunate as to find three specimens of 

 fully developed flowers growing upon the same plant, in each of 

 which there was a double series of ray florets having the regular 

 number of florets in each series. These were without exception 

 ligulate and neutral. These secondary series, I think, are the 

 result of the want of vigor necessary to develop fertile florets. 



July 15. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



July 22. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eight members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication: 

 " Descriptions of New Species of Shells from the West Coast 

 of Florida." By R. E. C. Stearns. 



The death of John Warner was announced. 



July 27. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Eight members present. 



On report of the Committee the following papers were ordered 

 to be published : 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



THE PTEROSTICHI OF THE UNITED STATES. 

 BY JOHN L. LECONTE, M.D. 



Since the i)ublication of my synopsis of the species of Pteros- 

 tichus and allied genera inhabiting temperate North America,' 

 the additions to our fauna haA'e been quite appreciable, but what 

 is of greater importance, by the kindness of friends in Europe, 

 authentic specimens have been procured of most of the species 

 which at that time were unknown to me. It has, therefore, ap- 

 peared to me useful to place in a condensed form the results of a 

 more recent study of the species in my collection, in order to 

 facilitate the recognition of the numerous forms in this somewhat 

 difficult genus. 



I have, with greater material and more careful study, been 

 obliged to modify the generic table given in the work just cited, 

 to such an extent as to place Pcecilus as a minor group of Fteros- 

 tichus, and to elevate Fiesmus, on account of its absolutely simple 

 mentum tooth, to the rank of a genus. 



I would, therefore, propose this new scheme of arrangement. 



Mandibles striate ; elytra with one dorsal puncture. Evarthrcs. 



Mandibles not striate : 

 Mentum tooth emarginate : 

 Ligula cariuate : 

 Metatlioracic episterna long. Lofhoglossus. 



Metathoracic episterna short. Holciophokus. 



Ligula not carinate : 



Front tarsi of % normally dilated. Pterostichus. 



Front tarsi of % obliquely dilated. Loxakdrus. 



Mentum tooth entire, rounded at tip. Pies.mus. 



It is worth}' of remark, that while in Europe many species occur 

 in which the last ventral segment of the % is crested or impressed, 

 four have thus far been found in America. On the Pacific slope 

 JSolciophorus ater is the only example, and in the higher parts of 

 the Alleghanies P. mancus, diligendus, and lubricus. 



' Journal Acad. Nat. Sci., Philada., 2d, ii. 22.j. (1852.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



PTEEOSTICHUS. 



Division 1. Dorsal punctures wanting ; marginal stria single. 



A. Posterior tarsi stout, not grooved on the outer side ; epistoma and 

 labrum emarginate ; prosternum feebly margined behind. 



Hammatomerus Chaud. 

 Joints of hind and middle tarsi % J inflated at tip. 



1. morionides Chaud. 

 Joints of hind and middle tarsi % 9 normal. 2. tarsalis n. sp. 



B. Posterior tarsi slender, first joint with two grooves and an inter- 



vening ridge on the outer side ; prosternum (except in P. 2)lanctu9) 

 strongly margined behind ; base of prothorax margined towards the 

 sides. 



A. Sides of prothorax crenato-dentate : 



Prothorax feebly narrowed behind, basal foveas large, bistriate, elytra 

 opaque, deeply striate. 3. crenicolUs u. sp. 



B. Sides of prothorax entire, not serrate : 



a. Prosternum scarcely margined behind : 



Outer basal stria of prothorax distinct, humeri not dentiform. 



4. flanctus Lee. 



b. Prosternum distinctly margined behind : 



a. Prothorax feebly narrowed behind, and slightly sinuate on the sides, 



hind angles rectangular; 



* Humeral angles dentiform : 



Hind angles of prothorax distinctly carinate, outer basal stria long. 



5. hereulaneus Mann. 

 ** Humeral angles not dentiform ; sides of elytra more rounded near the 



base : 

 Base of prothorax not depressed near the angles, outer stria a feebly 



impressed fovea ; algidus Lee. 6. v(cUd2is'Dei. 



Base of prothorax flattened, more narrowed, outer stria short, feeble, 



general form more elongate ; inornatus Bland. 7. protractus Lee. 

 Base of Jn-othorax less flattened; outer stria vague or wanting, sides of 

 prothorax oblique, scarcely sinuate behind ; sides of elytra more 

 parallel than in validus ; 

 Scutellar stria distinct (as in the other species of the group); calif or- 



nicus X Lee. 8. vicinus Mann. 



Scutellar stria very short ; form narrower. 9. longulus n. sp. 



b. Prothorax scarcely narrowed behind, outer basal impression verj' 



short, humeri not dentiform, body small, narrow, sides of elytra 

 parallel; linearis Lee. 10. angustus De]. 



c. Prothorax a little more narrowed behind, flattened at the base, sides 



scarcely subsinuate, hind angles rectangular, feebly explauatc, inner 

 basal stria long, outer one nearly obsolete ; humeri dentiform : 



* Scutellar stria short : 



Elytra with a purple reflection. * 11. ametliystiniis Dej. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Elj-tra piceons or Iwownish-black ; brunneics Dej. 12. castaneus De}. 

 ** Scutelkr stria long, color black. 13. scuiellaris n. sp. 



C. Hind tarsi slender ; prosternum margined at tip ; prothorax with 

 inner basal stria distinct, outer one wanting. 



a. Base of prothorax margined towards the sides ; humeral angles not 

 dentiform, elytra parallel, sides but little rounded near the base ; pos- 

 terior tarsi with obsolete groove on outer side : 



Elytral strife rather fine, interspaces flat, prothorax rather convex, slightly 

 wider than long, rounded on the sides, and not sinuate, base not 

 narrower than tip ; ampUcolUs Motsch, simplex Lee, muticus Lee. 



14. californicus Dej. 



b. Base of prothorax not at all margined : 



a Posterior tarsi not grooved on the outer side ; body less elongate : 

 Large, prothorax rather flat at base, and feebly narrowed behind, but 

 scarcely sinuate on the sides, elytra not wider than prothorax, 

 striae fine, interspaces flat, not shining. 



15. Menetriesii Motsch. 

 b First joint of posterior tarsi with two grooves and an interven- 

 ing ridge : body elongate, slender, the prothorax being nar- 

 rower than the elytra, and more narrowed behind : 

 * Scutellar stria long, {% with one, $ with two anal punctures each 

 side, as usual) : 

 Prothorax less narrowed behind, elytra more parallel ; contractus 



Lee. 16. castanipes Men. 



Prothorax more narrowed behind, elytra elongate oval : 

 Hiud angles rectangular : 

 Tarsal grooves extending on the second joint. 17. Spraguei n. ^^>. 



Tarsal grooves only on first joint ; longicollis\\ Motsch. 18. gracilior Itec. 

 Iliud angles obtuse rounded at tip. 19. Uornii n. sp. 



** Scutellar stria short, elytra elongate oval, deeply striate ; ( '^ 9 '"'i^ti 

 two anal punctures each side.) 

 Prothorax as wide as long, less narrowed behind, and sides less sinuate. 



20. Isabelhe Lee. 

 Prothorax longer than wide, more narrowed and sinuate behind ; ilhtstris 

 Lee. 21. congestus Men. 



D. Posterior tarsi slender, with the usual double groove and intervening 



ridge on the first joint, prosternum not margined at tip ; head of 

 usual size, prothorax narrowed behind, basal impressions linear, 

 single. 



a. Hind angles of prothorax rectangular ; base not margined ; 

 Tarsal grooves extending on the second joint, elytral stria^ deep, humeri 



dentiform ; tristis Dej., interfector Newm., sustentus Lee, subarcva- 

 tus Lee, rejectus Lee. 22. adorns Say. 



b. Hind angles of prothorax very small rectangular, base margined ; 

 oregonus || Chaud. 23. longicoUis Lee. 



c. Hind angles of prothorax obtuse rounded. 24. sphodrinus Lee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



E. Posterior tarsi slender, "without marginal grooves, prosterniim not 

 margined at tip ; head very large, hind trochanters very long ; 

 prothorax quadrate, moderately narrowed behind, angles rect- 

 angular, base broadly foveate each side, not margined, outer 

 stria distinct, with a slight carina. 



Hind angles of prothorax more prominent, hind trochanters acute 

 at tip. 25. grandiceps Chaud. 



Hind angles of prothorax less prominent, hind trochanters rounded 

 at tip ; g7'andiceps Lee. 26. rostratus Newm. 



Division 2. One dorsal puncture on the third stria, behind the middle ; 

 scutellar stria vei^y short ; prosternvim not margined behind. 



A. Prothorax narrowed behind, hind angles subobtuse, basal strife two, 



the outer one shorter : 

 Outer basal stria distinct, with a feeble carina : last ventral segment % with 



a small tubercle near the tip. 27. mancus Lee. 



Outer basal stria punctiform, without carina : last ventral segment % with 



a broad apical impression. ' 28. diligendus Chaud. 



B. Prothorax narrowed behind and sinuate on the sides, basal angles 



rectangular prominent, impressions linear deep, punctulate ; elytra 

 more broadly oval ; fastiditus Dej., Stomis americana Lap. 



29. honestus Say. 



Division 3. Elytra with several dorsal punctures ; palpi Avith the last 

 joint cylindrical, truncate. 

 Episterna of metathorax short : 

 Prosternum not margined behind ; 

 Outer striae of elytra finer ; dorsal punctures 3 : 



Scutellar stria long. A. 



Scutellar stria short. B. 



Elytral striae equally deep : 

 Prothorax narrowed behind, basal foveae large : C. 



Prothorax wider behind, basal fovege double, narrow ; dorsal punc- 

 tures 3 ; Abacidus Lee. D. 

 Prosternum margined behind ; prothorax wider behind, basal foveae 

 double, dorsal punctures 3 ; Peristethus Lee. E. 

 Episterna of metathorax long : 

 Prosternum margined behind : 



Scutellar stria long, elytra sinuate at tip ; Poecilus. F. 



Prosternum not margined behind ; (scutellar stria long and elytral 

 strongly sinuate at tip) ; 

 Prothorax with basal fovete bistriate, and hind angles carinate ; 



dorsal punctures 3 ; Omaseus. G. 



Prothorax with linear basal fovese, hind angles not carinate : 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dorsal punctures 3 ; (hind tibire of % usually hairy on inner side) ; 



Dysidius Chaud. H. 



Dorsal foveae 5-6; Platysma. I. 



A. 



(Prothorax finely margined ; two joints of hind and middle tarsi grooved 

 on outer side : last ventral % with a short high carina acute at tip). 



Prothorax with linear basal impressions, narrowed behind, hind angles 

 rectangular, elytral stria very fine, scutellar long, but not well de- 

 fined. 30. lubricus Lee. 



B. 



(Prothorax finely margined ; tarsi not grooved on the outer side ; protho- 

 rax much rounded on the sides, with short narrow basal impressions ; 

 sides of abdomen punctured:) 

 Hind angles of prothorax obtuse not rounded, stria; of elytra punctured, 



form stouter. 31. tumescem Lee. 



Hind angles of prothorax obtuse and rounded, form less stout : 



Elytral strife not punctured. 32. obscurus Say. 



Elytral striae punctured ; cycloderus Chaud. 33. ventralis Saj'. 



C. 



(Prothorax strongly margined ; two or three joints of posterior tarsi 

 grooved on the outer side :) 



a. Dorsal punctures 2 : 



Basal fovea of prothorax linear, deep. 34. lachrymosus Xm. 



Basal fovete large : 

 Hind angles carinate : more or less rounded ; 

 Fovete without tubercle, mar ens Newm., adjunctus Lee, flebilis Lee. 



35. coracimis Xewm. 

 Fovese with tubercle ; bisigillatus Harris, rugicolUs Hald. 



36. stygicus Say.' 

 Hind angles not carinate, foveae without tubercle ; protensus Lec.^ 



37. relict us Newm. 



b. Dorsal punctures 4, hind angles of prothorax broadly rounded, basal 

 foveae large and deep ; 



Hind angles carinate, color purple, shining. 38. sxiperciliosus Say. 



Hind angles not carinate, color dull, nearly black. 39. moestns Say. 



c. Alternate interspaces interrupted by irregular lines and punctures. 



40. punctatissimus Band. 



1 



' Tlie type of F. picipes Newm. in the British Museum belongs to tliis 

 species, but the description does not agree, and seems to refer rather to 

 Picsmus submarginatus ; there seems to have been some confusion of 

 labels. 



2 The type of F. rclicta Newn. in the British iMuseum l)elongs to this 

 species ; the description mentions six elytral punctures, three on each, an 

 anomaly which exists in fact iu the specimen. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



D. 



(Tarsi without grooves ; body oval :) 



Hind angles rectangular, scutellar stria long : 



Basal fovese and side margin of protliorax not punctured ; body wider. 



41. fallax Dej. 

 Basal fovese and side margins punctured ; body less wide ; striatus Dej. 



42. scul])U(,s Lee. 

 Hind angles rounded, scutellar stria wanting : 



Side margin much wider, impunctured. 43. obesulus n. sp. 



E. 



(Two joints of posterior tarsi finely grooved on outer side, body oval :) 

 Basal fovese and side margin of prothorax feebly punctured. 



44. 2)er7nundus Say. 



F. 

 (Antennse with joints 1-3 strongly carinate ; two or three joints of poste- 

 rior tarsi grooved on the outer side ; basal fovese of prothorax double.) 



a. Sides of prothorax not depressed : 



* Prothorax distinctly narrowed behind, sides feebly sinuate : 

 Body impunctured beneath ; outer basal fovea punctiform, feeble ; 

 Larger, elytral strise punctured, dorsal punctures 3. 45. suhcordatus Lee. 

 Smaller, elytral strise not punctured, dorsal punctures 2. 



46, scitulus Lee. 

 Meso- and metathorax punctured beneath : 



Outer basal fovese larger, prothorax less narrowed behind, but more sinuate 

 on the sides, dorsal punctures 2 ; occidentalis X Chaud. 



47. ketulus Lee. 

 ** Prothorax very slightly narrowed behind, feebly or not at all sinuate 



on the sides : basal fovese confluent, punctured : 

 Color dark metallic ; hind angles of prothorax nearly rectangular, dorsal 



punctures 2-4 ; cursitor Jjec. 48. occidentalis De^. 



Color black, hind angles nearly rectangular, dorsal punctures 2-4. Long. 

 12 mill. ; Dacota. 49. corvus n. sp. 



*** Prothorax feebly narrowed behind, basal fovese'not confluent, outer 

 one small but deep, dorsal punctures 2; body beneath impunctured; 

 Prothorax as much narrowed before as behind ; basal fovese not punctured. 



50. cyaneus Lee. 

 Prothorax more narrowed in front; 



Antennse piceous at base. 51. texanus Lee. 



Antennse ferruginous at base; chulcites \\ Say. S2. Sayi Brulle. 



b. Prothorax not narrowed behind, sides depressed, more widely towards 



the base : trunk punctured beneath; 

 Not polished, dorsal punctures 4 : 

 Outer basal fovea distinct, color green or blue, or dull bronze, legs piceous 

 or ferruginous. 53. lucuhlundus Say. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



Outer basal fovea wanting, color blue, legs ferruginous. 54. hicolor Lee. ' 

 More convex and shining, dorsal punctures 3 ; feebly bronzed, legs 

 piceous or ferruginous. 55. convexicollis Say. 



G. 

 (Prothorax more or less narrowed behind, basal angles carinate, foveas 

 large and deep, bistriate, punctulate ; elytra with 3 dorsal punctures, 

 and long scutellar stria, sinuate near the tip, humeri dentiform ; 

 posterior tarsi with first joint feebly grooved on the outer side.) 

 Prothorax strongly narrowed behind, angles rectangular prominent : 

 Larger, very shining, basal fovese impunctured, elytra iridescent, stria? 



fine. 56. acutangulus Chaud. 



Smaller, basal fovese punctulate, elytra more deeply striate ; nigrita X 

 Kirby, agrestis Bland. 57. caudicalis (Say), 



Prothorax less narrowed behind, angles small rectangular, slightly 

 prominent ; basal fovese punctured ; elytral strise deep : 

 Still smaller, slender; abjectus Lee. 58. luctuosus Dej. 



Broader and larger; tenebrosus Chaud. 59. corvinus Dej. 



H. 



(Posterior tarsi with 2 or 3 joints grooved on the outer side ; prothorax 



moderately narrowed behind, angles not prominent, basal fovea? 



linear deep ; elytra with three dorsal punctures, scutellar stria long, 



humeral angles not dentiform, tip sinuate.) 

 'a. % with inner side of hind tibia? clothed with hair ; 3 tarsal joints 



grooved; 

 Color purplish, basal impressions of prothorax not punctured, hind angles 



rather obtuse. 60. purpui'atus Lee. 



Color black, basal impressions of prothorax more or less punctured, angles 



small rectangular; morosus Dej., picicornis K'lrhy. 61. mutusSny. 

 b. '^ with the hind tibise not hairy on tlie inner side ; tarsal grooves less 



deep, not extending to the third joint; 

 Prothorax feebly sinuate on the sides behind, hind angles rectangular, 



basal fovese feebly punctured. 62. lusirans Lee. 



I. 



(Posterior tarsi with 3 joints grooved, though sometimes not very deeply; 



prothorax with basal impressions linear, more or less punctured, angles 



rectangular or obtuse not rounded ; elytra with 5 or 6 large dorsal 



punctures, humeri not dentiform, tip deeply sinuate, scutellar stria 



long. Species indefinite and opinionative, especially in the differences 



between orinomum and Luczotii.) 



a. Elytra in both sexes shining : 



Hind angles of prothorax small, prominent, dentiform. 



63. pensylvanicxis u. sp. 

 h. Elytra of 9 tlull, of % shining : 



Sides of prothorax more broadly depressed : 



Sides of prothorax slightly sinuate behind, angles rectangular. 



64. vitreui Dej. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Sides of prothorax oblique, angles obtuse; adstricta Dej., oblongiuscula 

 Motscli., ohtusangula Motsch. 65. orinoTmim Lee. 



Sides of prothorax more narrowly depressed: 



Sides of prothorax oblique, angles obtuse; Q-ptmctatus Mann, seriepunc- 

 tatuslslanw. 6G. LuczotiiY)c]. 



Larger, prothorax more narrowly margined, sides slightly sinuate behind, 

 angles rectangular; colligatus Walker. 67. oregonus Lee. 



Division 4. Elytra with dorsal punctures; palpi with the last joint elongate 

 oval, scarcely truncate. (Small species.) 

 Prosteruum finely margined behind : 

 Episterna of metathorax elongate : 

 Scutellar stria wanting : 

 Prothorax rounded, broadly margined ; dorsal punctures 3. A. 



Prothorax narrowed behind, finely margined ; dorsal punctures 2. B. 

 Scutellar stria long ; dorsal punctures 3; Argutor. C. 



Episterna of metathorax short, dorsal punctures 4-6 : 



Scutellar stria variable; Cryobitjb. D. 



A. 



(Posterior tarsi with 4 joints grooved on the outer side. Body oval elongate, 

 head rather small, prothorax nearly square with very rounded angles, 

 sides widely depressed towards the base, basal impressions single deep, 

 impunctured.) 



Shining black, antennae, palpi, and legs ferruginous ; Platyderus nitidus 

 Kirby. 08. erythropus Dej. 



B. 



(Posterior tarsi with 3 joints grooved on the outer side. Body of usual 

 form, prothorax narrowed slightly behind, angles obtuse not rounded, 

 basal impressions double, outer one punctiform ; scutellar stria puue- 

 tiform, dorsal punctures 3 ; prosternum margined at tip. ) 



Bronzed, antenna?, palpi, and legs ferruginous. 69. splendidulus Lee. 



C. 



(Posterior tarsi with three joints grooved on the outer side; prothorax feeblj' 

 narrowed behind, angles not rounded, basal impressions single, base 

 finely margined each side. 



Elytral striae impunctured ; hind angles of prothorax subrectangular, 

 slightly prominent, antennte and legs dark ferruginous. 



70. patruelis Dej. 



Elytral striae punctured as far as the middle ; form less slender, hind 

 angles more distinctly obtuse ; antennse and legs dark ferruginous, 

 thighs usually piceous. a. Striae strongly punctured ; desidiosus Leo. 

 B. Striae indistinctly punctured. 71. femoralis Kirby. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Smaller, very sliiuing, iridescent, elytral striae obsoletely punctured ; hind 

 angles of prothorax obtuse not prominent, anteunrc and feet bright 

 ferruginous. 72. corrusculua u. sp. 



D. 



(Posterior tarsi with 3 joints grooved on the outer side ; body elongate, 

 prothorax moderately narrowed behind, basal angles subrectangu- 

 lar, occasionally prominent, impressions single or double, in the 

 latter case the angles are sometimes feebly carinated ; elytra elon- 

 gate oval, or subovate, usually convex, dorsal punctures 2-6. but 

 not very constant ; humeral angles rounded, tip more or less sinuate, 

 scutellar stria sometimes long, sometimes short, species in part 

 opinionative and indistinct.) 

 a. Base of prothorax not margined near the hind angles ; legs blackish. 



* Base of prothorax between fovea and angle convex, or at least not 



flattened ; elytra convex, scutellar stria long, dorsal punctures small : 

 Brassy, elytral striae fine, first and second striae connected behind by a deeper 

 hook : outer basal impression puuctiform, indistinct, hind angles 

 nearly obtuse. 73. vindicatus Mann. 



Elytral striae deeper : 



Black, basal fovea? of prothorax not punctured. 74. ventricosus Dej. 

 Bronzed, basal foveae punctured. 75. suhexaratus Mann. 



** Base of prothorax between foveae and angle flattened ; elytra convex, 

 scutellar stria, dorsal punctures : 

 Bronzed, hind angles of prothorax nearly obtuse, outer fovea wanting, inner 



one punctured. 76. pinguedineiis Dej. 



Morebrilliant green bronzed, hind angles rectangular. 77. hyperhoreus Men. 

 b. Base of prothorax margined near the hind angles ; legs usually 

 ferruginous ; scutellar stria generally short : 



* Outer basal fovea small, but distinct, angles not carinate : 

 Prothorax more narrowed behind, angles rectangular, sinuosity short. 



78. Jiudsonicus Lee. 

 Like preceding, but smaller, less convex, sides of prothorax more sinuate, 



though less narrowed behind ; quadricollU Mann. 79. similis ]\Ien. 

 Broader, and less convex, hind angles prominent, sides of prothorax more 

 sinuate. 80. fatuus Mann. 



** Outer basal fovea longer, hind angles subcarinate, foveae confluent, 

 forming a depressed space : 

 Hind angles slightly prominent, elytral striae rather deep ) fascoceneus Chaud. 



81. ripanus Dej. 

 Hind angles more prominent, sides more sinuate, elytral striae finer, espe- 

 cially towards the sides and tip. 82. confusus ]\Iann. 

 ** Outer basal fovea wanting, space from angle to fovea generally less 

 flattened (thus resembling the species in (a*) but the base is margined 

 towards the angle, and the feet are ferruginous) ; elytral punctures 

 strongly marked. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 311 



Larger, hind angles of prothorax rectangular, small, and not prominent ; 



83. subcauddtus Mann. 



Middle sized, hind angles of prothorax rather prominent, a. Hind angles 

 somewhat less prominent ; frigidus. 84. empetricola Dej. 



Smaller, prothorax broader, comparatively more narrowed behind, sides 

 suddenly sinuate, hind angles prominent ; fasiidiosus Mann., ochoticus 

 Sahib. 85. mandibularis Kirby. 



NEW SPECIES. 



2. P. TARSALis, elongate, very depressed, parallel, black shining ; 

 prothorax quadrate, a little wider than long, feebly narrowed be. 

 hind, front angles acute, apex broadly but deeply emarginate, base 

 subsinuate, margined near the angles, which are rectangular and 

 not carinate, basal impressions feeble, double, the outer one shorter ; 

 elytra rather broadly margined, feebly sinuate towards the tip ; 

 humeri dentiform, stripe fine but deep, impunctured, scutellar not 

 XQvy long, between first and second strire ; posterior tarsi rather 

 stout, joints triangular, not grooved on the other side. Long. 

 16.5-19 mm. 



Lake Taho "Valley, Sierra Nevada. This species has the form 

 and sculpture of P. plancfus Lee, but is easily known by the 

 labrum and epistoma being broadly emarginate, as in P. morio- 

 nides Chaud., and by the tarsi being much stouter, and not 

 grooved on the outer side. The prosternum is finely margined 

 between the coxae ; the sides of the trunk are finely not deeply 

 punctured ; as in other Pterostichi, the last ventral segment of 

 the 9 is marked with two setigerous punctures, and of the % with 

 but one ; in the latter sex there is also a feeble subapical concavity 

 which is wider than long. 



3. P. CRENicoLLis, elongate, black, elytra with a feeble purplish 

 lustre (rather dull in the 9 ), prothorax quadrate, scarcely wider 

 than long, feebly narrowed behind, rather depressed, front angles 

 rounded at tip, tip broadly emarginate, base nearly straight, mar- 

 gined near the angles which are rectangular, but not sharp, broadly 

 and feebly subcarinated, basal impressions double, the outer one 

 shorter, sides narrowly margined, and distinctly crenate at the 

 edge ; elytra broadly rounded on the sides, distinctly sinuate near 

 the tip, humeri dentiform, striae deep impunctured, scutellar short, 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



inside of the first stria; posterior tarsi slender, with the first joint 

 strongly grooved. Long. 11 mm. 



Washington Territory and Vancouver ; Messrs. Davidson and 

 Matthews. A very distinct species by the finely crenate lateral 

 edge of the prothorax. The % has the usual anal point each side, 

 but the 9 has ;/?ree, and in one specimen three on one side and 

 four on the other. 



9. P. LONGULUS, elongate, shining black, prothorax as wide as 

 long, rounded on the sides, narrowed behind, sides not sinuate, 

 hind angles obtuse not prominent, posterior transverse impression 

 distinct, basal impressions long, linear, outer one -wanting, base not 

 depressed near the angles but finely margined ; elytra scarcely 

 wider than the prothorax, sides nearly straight, rounded towards 

 the humeri, which are dentiform, strins well impressed, obsoletely 

 punctured, scutellar stria wanting ; posterior tarsi with three 

 joints grooved on the outer side. Long. 11 mm. 



Colorado, one pair given me by Dr. S. Lewis. Very nearly 

 allied to P. vicinus^ but smaller and narrower, with the hind angles 

 of the prothorax not rectangular and prominent, and the scutellar 

 stria absent. 



12. P. CASTANEus (Dej.) I can find no substantial difference be- 

 tween the types of this species and P. brunneus Dej., which were 

 sent me by Baron Chaudoir ; in the latter the sides of the pro- 

 thorax are a little less distinctly flattened tow\ards the base ; I also 

 received a specimen of the latter form from Col. Motschulsky, 

 labelled P. viciyius Mann., from which it difters obviously by the 

 characters given in the preceding table. 



13. P. scuTELLARis, elongate, pitchy black shining, prothorax as 

 wide as long, broadly rounded on the sides, moderately narrowed 

 behind, sides feebly sinuate near the hind angles which are rect- 

 angular, base depressed each side and finely margined, transverse 

 impressions distinct, basal impressions rather short, outer one 

 wanting, margin slightly explanate near the base ; elytra rather 

 flat, parallel, feebly rounded near the humeri which are prominent 

 and dentiform, striie well impressed, feebly punctured, scutellar 

 long, between the first and second; posterior tarsi with the first 

 joint feebly grooved on the outer side. Long. 9-11 mm. 



Two specimens, California, Mr. G. Davidson. Closely related 

 to P. caslanem, but easily distinguished by the well-marked scu- 

 tellar stria. It resembles in form F. vicinus,hut is known at once 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



b}^ the depressed base of prothorax, broader lateral margin, sides 

 feebly explanate near the base, and the tarsal grooves feeble and 

 visible on the first joint. 



14. P. CALiFORNicus Dej. An abundant species in California; P. 

 muticus and simplex Lee. are not different ; Brachystylus ampli- 

 collis Motsch. is a form with the prothorax a little wider and more 

 rounded on the sides. 



17. P. SPRAGUEi, veiy elongate, opaque black {%); frontal im- 

 pressions distinct ; prothorax longer than wide, rather strongly- 

 narrowed behind, rounded and finely margined on the sides, which 

 are feeblj^ (but not shortlj'^) sinuate behind; very broadly emargi- 

 nate in front, with the angles rounded ; base straight, not margined, 

 angles rectangular, basal impressions long, very feeble, posterior 

 transverse impression angulated, dorsal line fine, much abbreviated 

 at each end ; elytra elongate oval, a little wider than the prothorax, 

 rounded at base, humeri slightly' dentiform, stria fine, impunctured, 

 rather deeper tow^ards the tip, which is feebly sinuate, scutellar 

 long, joined to the 1st stria; posterior tarsi with the 1st and 2d 

 joints grooved, and the 3d more feebly so. Long. IT mm. 



Nevada, a % kindly given me by Mr. P. S. Sprague, to whom I 

 take great j^leasure in dedicating it, as a mark of appreciation of 

 his labors in the study of our Carabidse. Dr. Horn has also 

 received a specimen from the same region. It is as slender in 

 form as P. longicollis and Hornii^ and is easily known by the dull 

 black color. 



19. P. HORNii, very elongate, piceous black, shining (9), frontal 

 fovese very indistinct, prothorax longer than wide, broadly rounded 

 and finely margined on the sides, rather strongly narrowed behind, 

 scarcely emarginate in front, with the angles not prominent, base 

 straight, not margined towards the angles, which are obtuse and 

 not rounded, basal impressions long but feeble ; elytra elongate 

 oval, scarcely wider than the prothorax, rounded at base, humeri 

 slightly dentiform, strife fine impunctured, rather deeper towards, 

 the tip, which is not very strongly sinuate ; scutellar between first 

 and second stria rather indistinct, moderately short; posterior 

 tarsi with the first joint with a single feebly marked groove on the 

 outer side. Long. 14 mm. 



One female, S. E. Sierras of California, Dr. Horn. Quite dis- 

 tinct from all the allied species by the obtuse hind angles of the 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



prothorax and the obsolete frontal impressions ; otherwise it re- 

 sembles in form P. longicollis. 



22. P. ADOXUS Say, subarcuatus Lee., rejectus Lee, and stisten- 

 tus Lee, are slight modifications of this species, with more or less 

 prominent high angles of the prothorax. 



35. P. CORACINUS Newman, varies in a similar manner; adjunctus 

 Lee. and moereus Newm. {jlebilis Lee.) are corresponding modi- 

 fications. I have found the same variations in P. stygicus Say, 

 but they have fortunately not received separate names. 



43. P. OBESULUS, robust, oval, very shining black ( 9 ), prothorax 

 wider than long, rounded on the sides, which are strongl}^ margined 

 and towards the base widely depressed ; base a little wider than 

 the apex, straight, margined towards the hind angles, which are 

 obtuse and slightly rounded, basal foveie short, deep, marked 

 with a few punctures ; elytra scarcely sinuate towards the tip, 

 humeri not dentiform, striae deep, ijunctured, scutellar wanting, 

 but indicated by the usual puncturfe ; dorsal punctures 3, the 1st 

 on the 3d, the others on the 2d stria, and less separated than 

 usual; sides of trunk and abdomen punctured ; tarsi not grooved. 

 Long. 10 mm. 



Georgia. A very remarkable species of which I have seen only 

 the specimen kindlj^ communicated by Dr. Horn. 



62. P. LUSTRANS Lee. The specimens of this species from Van- 

 couver Island, Washington Territory, are larger than those from 

 California, but do not otherwise dilfer. 



63. P. PENSYLVANicus, Very shining black in both sexes, pro- 

 thorax with the side margin a little wider towards the base, hind 

 angles dentiform prominent ; elytra with the strit>3 deep, inter- 

 spaces slightly convex, 3d with 5 large punctures. Long. 11 mm. 



Mountains of Pennsylvania. This species is closely related to 

 the others of the group, and espcciall}- to P. vitreus ; it is, how- 

 ever, rather narrower, more shining in both sexes, and the hind 

 angles of the prothorax are more prominent and dentiform. 



69. P. coRRUSCULUS, elongate, shining black, antennte and legs 

 ferruginous; prothorax a little wider than long, equally narrowed 

 at tip and base, rounded on the sides, hind angles obtuse, not pro- 

 minent, transverse impressions obsolete, basal impressions long 

 and deep, base finely margined each side; el^'tra with deep nearly 

 impunctured stria*, scutellar distinct, 3d interspace with 3 dorsal 

 punctures. Ijong. 5 mm. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Massachusetts. Mr. P. S. Sprague. Smaller and narrower 

 than P. femoralis^ with the legs entirely ferruginous. In one 

 specimen there is a very faint and small outer basal impression. 



70. Argutor bicolor Kirby, ih. The type agrees with P. patrue- 

 Lis, except that the outer elytral striae are less impressed, and the 

 basal foveas of the prothorax less deep. These differences seem 

 to 1)6 individual. 



73. P. viNDiCATUS Mann. As exhibiting the uncertain and opin- 

 ionative character of the species of the Crj'obius group, I will give 

 a list of the specimens upon which I have based the table above 

 printed, and the sources from which they have been derived. 



86. A. hrevicornis Kirby, ib. The type seems not distinct from 

 cue specimen of A. mandibularis ; the other specimen of the latter 

 is more elongate, more bronzed, less convex, with the elytral striae 

 deeper, and dorsal punctures less evident. These differences do not 

 seem to me specific. P. fastidiosus Mann, is a smaller and stouter 

 race, with the hind angles of the prothorax less defined, and P. 

 oclioticus an equall}'^ small and stout race, with the hind angles 

 more prominent. 



P. VINDICATUS, 2 spec. Chaudoir, Mnizsech. Kadjak. 



P. VENTRicosus, 1 spcc. Chaudoir. Sitka. 



P. suBEXARATUS, 2 spec. Muizscch, Maeklin. Unalaska. 



P. PiNGUEDiNEUs, 1 spec. Chaudoir. Sitka, 1 spec. Motsch. 

 (as ventricosus). 



P. HYPERBOREUS, 1 spcc. Muizscch. Island St. George. 



P. HUDSONicus Lee. 1 spec, Ulke, Hudson's Bay Terr., 3 spec. 

 Sprague, Mount Washington, N. H. ; 1 (smaller) Lake Superior ; 

 3 sp. Motschulsky, Alaska. (2 as jyinguedineus, 1 as empetricola.) 



P. siMiLis, 1 spec, Mnizsech. Island St. George; 1 Motschul- 

 sky (as P. quadricollis). 



P. FATUUS, 2 spec. Ciiaudoir. Sitka. 



P. RiPARius, 3 spec. Chaudoir. Mnizsech, Sitka, Kadjak, 

 Kenai; and 1 spec. Motschulsk}' (as P.fatuus). 



P. CONFUSUS, 2 spec. Menetries. 



P. SUBCAUDATUS, 2 spcc Chaudoir, Mnizsech. 



P. EMPETRICOLA, 1 spec. Chaudoir, Sitka; 2 Hudson Bay Terr. ; 

 1 Motschultsky, Kenai; 2 sp. Motschulsky (1 as fastidiosus, 1 as 

 ^7'igidus?). 



P. MANDIBULARIS, 2 spec, Lake Superior; 2 sp., Fort Simpson ;. 

 1 spec. Sprague, White Mountains, N. H. ; 1 Ulke, Kenai ; 2 spec 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



smaller and stouter, Chaudoir and Mnizsecli (as F. fastidiosus) ; 

 3 spec, smaller and stouter, \\ith more prominent hind angles, 

 Motschulsky, Siberia (as P. ocholicus). 



LOPHOGLOSSUS Lee. 



Obs. Posterior tarsi obsoletely grooved on the outer side of the 

 first joint ; prosternum flattened at tip, but not margined ; pro- 

 thorax strongl}' margined, basal fovere deep, hind angles not cari- 

 nate ; elytra feebly sinuate at tip, marginal stria single, scutellar 

 stria long, dorsal punctures three ; metathoracic episterna long. 



Differs from Pterostichus 3, G, (Omaseus), chiefl^^ b}- the pro- 

 thorax more strongly margined, hind angles not carinate, and by 

 the ligula being obtusely carinated for its whole length ; the last 

 character being the only one which for convenience ma}^ be assumed 

 to have generic value. 



A. Hind angles of prothorax rectangular, sides sinuate towards the base ; 



middle tibia; of % armed with a subapical tooth on the inner side, 

 more or less distinct, and an apical process. 



a. % 9 not very brilliant, elytra of 9 dull. 

 Larger sides of protliorax scarcely sinuate behind ; middle tihiaj of % 

 with an acute, apical process, and obsolete subapical tooth. 



Haldemani Lee. 

 Large, sides of prothorax distinctly sinuate towards the base middle 

 tibine of % with an obtuse subapical tooth, and a large acute apical 

 process, complamita Dej. tartaricus (Sa}'.) 



h. % ^ moderately and equally brilliant ; sides of prothorax distinctly 

 sinuate behind ; middle tibiae % with an acute subapical tooth, apical 

 process wanting. strenuus Lee. 



c. % '^ very brilliant, as if varnished ; sides of prothorax distinctly but 

 less strongly sinuate, middle tibiae of male witli acute subapical tooth 

 and feeble obtuse apical process, a. Hind angles of prothorax less 

 prominent, camidenfiis Chaud. scrutator Lee. 



B. Hind angles of prothorax obtuse, sides more widely reflexed behind ; 



elytra % dull, middle tibiae without subapical tooth and but feeble 

 apical process. r/raris, n. sp. 



L. GRAVIS, black, moderately shining, el^'tra (%) less shining, 

 form and sculpture as in L. tartaricus, except that the sides of the 

 prothorax are simply rounded, not at all sinuate near the hind 

 angles, which are obtuse ; the lateral margin is rather more widely 

 reflexed behind. Long. 19 mm. 



One % in the collection of Dr. Horn, probabl}' found in Penn- 

 sj'lvania. With the general form and appearance of L. tartari- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31t 



cus, this species has nearl}^ the sexual characters of L. IlaJde- 

 viani : that is to say, the tooth on the inner side of the middle 

 tibii\i of the male is obsolete, and the apical tooth or process is 

 small and acute, though much less developed. 



LOXANDRUS Lee. 



I have not had access to a sufficient number of specimens to 

 enable me to make a revision of the species of this genus, which 

 seem to be in part at least, indefinite and opinionative. 



The following species have not been identified : 



Feronia carbonaria Dej. 



F. ebenina Dej. 



Brachystylus paralellus Motsch. 



Brachystylus curtipennis Motsch. 



F. (Hypherpes) sejungenda Chaud. Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1868. 



F. PRyETERMissA Chaud. ibid. 



Omaseus nigrita J Kirby, Fauna Bor. Am. The t3"pe in the 

 British Museum examined b}' me is larger than P. caudicalis, and 

 difters by the prothorax more narrowed behind, the hind angles 

 smaller, and the two strine of the basal fovese not connected by a 

 hooked line. 



F. monedula Newm. Ent. Mag. V. 386. Type not in the British 

 Museum ; referable probably to coracinus Newm. 



Argutor linearis Mannh. Bull. Mosc. 1853, 126. 



P. RUGULOSUS (Motsch.) Mannh. ibid. 1852, 296 ; Sfe7'opus rug. 

 Motsch. ibid. 1845, iv. 342 ; Steroderiis rug. Motsch. Kiifer Russl. 55. 



P. fusco^neus Mannh. Bull. Mosc. 1843.203; Omaseus fuse. 

 Chaud. Ann. Ent. Soc. Tr. iv. 448 ; Chaud. Rev. and Mag. Zool. 

 1868, = riparius f. Chaud. 



Omaseus rufisgapus Mannh., Bull. Mosc. 1853, 126; Cryobius 

 ruf. Chaud. Rev. and Mag. Zool. 1868. 



F. (Cryobius) ruficollis Mannh. ib. 1853, 131 ; near emjyetri- 

 colla fide Chaud. Rev and Mag. Zool. 1868. 



F. (C.) ROTUNDicoLLis Mannh. ibid. 1853, 132. 



F. (C.) SUBSINUOSA Chaud. Rev. and Mag. Zool. 1868. 



F. (C.) ARCTICOLA Chaud. ibid. 



F. (C.) LABRADORENSis Chaud. ibid. 



F. (C.) DiPLOGMA Chaud. ibid. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



EVARTHRUS Lee. 



Obs. Posterior tarsi not grooved on outer side ; protliorax va- 

 riable ; elytra with rounded humeri, and one dorsal puncture, scu- 

 tellar stria usuall}' short or i)unctiforra, rarely long ; metathoracic 

 episterna sliort ; first ventral segment margined at the base ; pro- 

 sternum not margined behind. 



A. Prosternnm deeply sulcate, emarginate at tip ; prothorax quadrate, 



feebly narrowed and not constricted at base ; basal fovepe large and 

 deep, bistriate with a supplementary inner fovea, hind angles cari- 

 nate ; base finely margined each side. 



a. Hind angles obtuse, sides not sinuate near the base ; marginal stria; 



approximate : 



* Prothorax wider than long, scutellar stria Avanting : 

 Prothorax more widely margined, especially towards the base : 



Elytral strire strongly punctured ; 'J, 9 dull. 1. se.vimpressus Lee. 



Pi-othorax more narrowly margined: 

 Elj^tral striae strongly punctured, 9 dull, % subopaque ; vidua Dej. 



2. si(/ilUitus Say. 

 Broader, elj'tral strise finely punctured, hind angles of prothorax less 

 obtuse, 9 % subopaque. 3. americanus Dej. 



** Prothorax as long as wide : 

 Scutellar stria long, hind angles obtuse, somewhat rounded, less strongly 

 cariuate ; elytral striaj finely punctured, % dull ; conviva Lee. 



4. orbatus Newm. 



b. Sides of protliorax slightly sinuated near the base, hind angles rec- 



tangular ; scutellar stria wanting : 



* Hind angles very small : 



Prothorax more widelj^ margined towards the base, elytra 9 subopaque, 



marginal strire approximate. 5. Engelmanni Lee. 



Prothorax less widelj^ margined ; elytra 9 very dull, marginal strise less 

 approximate. 6. nonnitens n. sp. 



** Hind angles more prominent, more strongly earinate : 

 Elytra % 9 shining ; marginal stria^ not approximate. 7. gravidas Hald. 



B. Prothorax strongly constricted behind, sides suddenly strongly sinu- 



ate, hind angles rectangular prominent, carinated, basal foveas deep, 

 bistriate, base margined each side ; prosternnm feebly or only obso- 

 h'tclj' sulcate. 

 a. Elytra feebly sinuate at tip, 9 subopaque ; 

 Very large shining, striae nearly ethiced punctured, scutellar long ; hind 



angles of prothorax very prominent. 8. Jiei'os Say. 



Strife distinct, jiunctured, scutellar short : 



Hind angles of prothorax very prominent. 9. colossus Lee. 



Hind angles shorter and less prominent : 



Sides of jnothorax very much rounded ; fatutis Lee, corax Lee., 

 orbutusX Lee. 10. sodalis Lee. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



Sides of prothorax more oblique, less rounded. 11. furtivus Lee. 

 b. Elytra strongly sinuate towards the tip : 

 Large, sides of prothorax very much rounded, basal angles longer, more 



prominent, more strongly carinated. 13. Sallei Lee. 



Smaller ; (species very indefinite and opinionative) : 

 Anterior transverse impression well defined ; hind angles longer, pro- 

 minent. 

 Broader, elytral margin stronger, subangulated at the humeri, (elytral 



strife sometimes effaced), latebrosus Lee. 13. subsiriatus Lee. 



Narrower, elytral margin finer, not angulated, (elytral striae sometimes 

 partly effaced), ovipennis Lee. 14. constnctus Say. 



Anterior transverse impression feeble, or obsolete, liind angles shorter, 

 though prominent, legs ferruginous, abclominalis Lee. lixa Lee. 



15. incisus Lee. 

 Anterior transverse impression obsolete, hind angles very small, scarcely 



carinate, outer basal stria punctiform. 16. vinctus Lee. 



C. Prothorax strongly rounded on the sides and narrowed behind, basal 

 fovege single, hind angles not carinate, obtuse or very small, and 

 feebly prominent. 



a. Prosternum feebly or obsoletely sulcate behind : 



* Anterior transverse impression feeble : 

 Elytra tolerably strongly sinuate towards the tip : 

 Large, hind angles small, nearly rectangular. 17. unieolor Say. 



Large, hind angles small obtuse. 18. rotundatus Lee, 



Middle sized, hind angles small obtuse ; Brevoorti Lee. 



19. spoliaius Newm.' 

 Smaller ; elytra less sinuate towards the tip : 

 Hind angles small, prominent, rectangular, ovuhim Chaud. 



20. acutus Leo. 

 Hind angles obtuse and rounded, basal fovese small : 



Basal seta of prothorax in front of angle, elytra striate. 



21. obsolet'us Say. 

 Basal seta of prothorax at the angle as usual ; elytra nearly smooth. 



22. Icevipemiis Leo. 

 ** Anterior transverse impression a finely impressed line near the 

 front margin. 23. approximatus Lee. 



b. Prosternum more deeply sulcate behind ; hind angles of prothorax 



obtuse, not prominent : 

 * Anterior transverse impression a deep line, further from the front 

 margin than in the preceding : 

 Elytra smooth, or very obsoletely striate. 24. morio Dej, 



** Anterior transverse impression not impressed : 

 Elytra with punctured striae, fainter behind, but not obliterated ; tenebrosa 

 Dej. 25. faber Germ. 



' This name seems to belong more properly to this species than to E. 

 faber., to which I formerly referred as a synonym. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Feronia (Evarthrns) diligenda Chaud. does not belong to this 

 genus, but will be found in Pterosticbus next to P. mancus Lee. 



5. E. VAGANS Lee. Closel3' related to E. Ungelmanni, and differs 

 onl}' in small size, less stout form, and more finely margined 

 prothorax. 



6. E. NONNiTENS, opaque black, elytra (9) entirely without lus- 

 tre, flat, prothorax wider than long, rounded, and rather strongly 

 margined on the sides, which are very shortly sinuate behind, hind 

 angles rectangular, base not narrower than apex ; front transverse 

 impression deep, hind one well marked, basal foveae deep bistriate, 

 with a short external carina; el3tra oval, scarcely wider than the 

 prothorax, humeri broadly rounded, tip scarcely sinuate, stride 

 fine, punctured, marginals not approximate, interspaces broad and 

 flat, third with the usual puncture ; prosternum very deeply sulcate. 

 Lonof, 18 mm. 



One specimen. Red River, Lonisiana. A very distinct species 

 bj^ the less convex form, and extremely dull color. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



SYNONYMICAL REMARKS UPON NORTH AMERICAN COLEOPTERA. 

 BY JOHN L. LE CONTE, M.D. 



In the Annals and Magazine of Natural History, November, 

 18t0, I published some notes made during a rapid examination of 

 various collections in London and Paris ; subsequent opportuni- 

 ties enabled me to make some additional notes, and more careful 

 studies of the species which I had not time to investigate on my 

 first visits. These are contained in the present paper, with such 

 corrections of my former notes as seem to be necessary at the pre- 

 sent time. 



1. CiciNDELA LONGiLABRis Say. A Specimen jabelled Bermuda 

 in the Oxford Museum. 



2. C JNIagdalen^. Marked like cinctipennis Lee, but the pro- 

 thorax is more rugose, the elytra more strongly punctured, and 

 distinctly serrate at tip ; in addition to the usual markings, dilated 

 and connected at the margin, there is a basal white spot (as in 

 macra), and a subsutural white vitta. Oxford Museum; found 

 in turpentine barrels brought to London, supposed to be from 

 North Carolina. 



I have named this species in friendly recollection of Magdalen 

 College, Oxford, the genial influence of which has been experi- 

 enced by man}' scientific nilgrims to the Universit3^ 



3. C. lacerata Chaud. n-om Louisiana, scarcely differs from the 

 Mexican C. hamata. 



4. C. PAMPHiLA Chaud. An undescribed species from Texas, 

 of stout form, allied to pallifera. Elytra with the dark 

 spaces strongl}' punctured, tip very finely almost obso- 

 letely serrate ; last ventral segment 9 longitudinall}' im- 

 pressed and marked with white spots. 



5. Elaphrus americanus Dej. The type in the col- 

 lection of Baron Chaudoir is evidently the common species 

 afterwards described by me as punctatissimus. There 

 are many other synonyms for the various races which occur in its 

 wide distribution from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and northwards 

 nearly to the Arctic circle. 



6. NoTioPHiLUS aquaticusX Kirb}'. The type in the British 

 Museum does not resemble the European species ; it is more brassy 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



than siBiRicus, with the stride of the elytra more strongly punc- 

 tured ; the inner rows are less impressed behind ; the dorsal fovea 

 is deep ; the scutellar stria is deep, and there are four or five small 

 punctures between it and the sutural stria. It seems therefore to 

 be N. SEMisTRiATUs Say. 



T. Nebria (Helobia) castanipes Kirby, afterwards described 

 as N. moesta Lee, and previously as N. Sahlbergi Dej. 



8. Calosoma peregrinator Guerin, Rev. Zool. 1844, p. 255; 

 angulatum Lee, prominens\^ Lee. Resembles llgubre, but is 

 less shining and not so coarsel}^ punctured. 



9. C. angulatum Chevr. Col. Mex. 1, No. 44. Resembles ex- 

 ternum in form, but differs in the pi'othorax being angulated at the 

 sides. Mexico. 



10. C. armatum Lap. Etudes Entom. 15G ; C. alternans Fabr. 

 fide Chaudoir. Antilles. 



n. C.fulgidiis Gebler, coll. Mnizsech. A variety of vieting- 

 Hovii, with the elytra more coarsely reticulate. Alaska. 



12. C. meander Fischer; ZapiVayt Lap. ; Tatumi Motsch. Ex- 

 tends from North America through Kamtschatka to Siberia. 



13. C. ligatus J Kirby, the type is C. serratus Say. 



14. Cychrus interruptus Men. (coll. Chaudoir) is G. conslric- 

 tus Lee. 



15. C. alternatus Motsch. (ibid.) is as large as C. striato- 

 punctatus Chaud., but the elytra are broader, and the prothorax 

 a trifle narrower, with the hind angles more distinctly margined 

 behind ; the specimens are ? , and they seem to belong to the large 

 one having only two joints of the % front tarsi spongy beneath. 



16. Ci/mindis marginata Kirb}' ; rejlexa Lee; cribricollis 

 Dej.! 



n. C. UNicoLOR Kirby is a small immature specimen of G. Inid- 

 sonica Lcc. ; the sides of the prothorax are more widely margined 

 than in pilosa, distinctly sinuate behind, and the hind angles are 

 prominent. 



18. C. VENATOR Dej., according to Baron Chaudoir differs from 

 AMERICANA Dej. My series is not sufllcientl}' large to decide this 

 point. 



19, A specimen of Triciiotiiorax cyaneus Montr., from New 

 Caledonia, in the collection of Mr, Perroud at L3'ons, is very simi- 

 lar to the variety of our Rhombodera pallipes in which the pro- 

 thorax and legs are yellow. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 323 



20. Anchomenus angusticoUis\ Kirby agrees with the common 

 race of Platynus sinuatus, except that the basal angles of the 

 prothorax are less prominent, the basal impressions and the ely tral 

 strife less punctured. The specimen of P. stygicus Lee. shown 

 me on a former visit to the British Museum was erroneously 

 labelled, but was not Kirby 's type; the synonym given in Annals 

 and Magazine of Nat. History, Nov. 1870, p. No. 5, is therefore 

 incorrect. 



21. A. EXTENSicoLLis. Mr. Kirby's specimens belong to the 

 elongate bluish-green race, without any elevation in the basal im- 

 pressions of the prothorax, 



22. Agonum affine Kirby is Harrisii Lee. 



23. A. PiciPENNE Kirby. Var. (a) is a species as large as P. RU- 

 FiCORNis Lee, with the prothorax equally elongate, and the sides 

 not explanate or reflexed ; it seems to be lutulentua Lee. 



24. A. picij^enne, xavs. (c and d) are ruficornis Leg, 



25. A. sordens Kirby, (a) could not be found ; (b) seems to be 

 fuscescens Chaud. 



26. A. SEMiNiTiDUM Kirb3^ I learn from Mr. C. 0. Waterhouse 

 that this species differs from P. chalceus Lee. by the elytra being 

 shorter, more shiniug, and less parallel at the sides. 



27. Stereocerus similis Kirby, is the species of Amai'a described 



as FeRONIA HiEMATOPUS Dcj. 



28. Cyrtonotus rufimanus Kirby has the sides of the prothorax 

 distinctly sinuate behind, and the hind angles prominent. It 

 seems (without comparison) to be A. lacustris Lee. C. brevila- 

 bris Kirby is a specimen of the same species with the labrum 

 retracted under the epistoma. 



29. G.convexiusculus | Kirby is A. laticollis Lee. The Euro- 

 pean species is narrower, with the prothorax much more narrowed 

 behind and more sinuate on the sides, as in A. Jacobins Lee. 



30. C. LATiOR Kirby is A. libera Lee, = Isevistriata Putzeys, 

 a Brad3'tus with sides of prothorax rounded, hind angles obtuse 

 and not rounded. 



31. Amara impuncticollis Say. Mr. Kirby's specimens have 

 the sides of the prothorax more oblique and less rounded, and the 

 basal fovene more distinct than in the specimens sent by Mr. 

 Sprague for comparison, but I do not think that it is a diflerent 

 species. 



32. A. vulgaris % Kirbj^, is a rather elongate flattened species 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



with the basal fovete of the prothorax double, distinct, and well 

 sei^arated, veiy feebly punctured ; elytra strongly sinuate towards 

 the tip; hind tibia ^ sliglitly curved, not pubescent on the inner 

 face. It is of the size of ixterstitialis, and very nearly related to 

 it, but more depressed, and witli deeper protlioracic basal fovere, 

 and seems to be what I incorrectly determined as L/Evipennis 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1855, 353. 



33. A. disco7^s Kirby =r ciialcea Dej., has the hind angles of the 

 prothorax sharply defined, the base of the prothorax is not punc- 

 tured, and the sides not explanate ; it seems therefore to be A. 

 CHALCEA Dej. 



34. A. LiEviPENXis Kirb}' is a small species of bright bronze 

 color, with the sides of the prothorax not explanate, basal foveae 

 distinct, strioe of el^-tra fine, not deeper behind ; antennne appa- 

 rently^ entirely black, hind tibia? 9 not pubescent on inner side. 

 Size of European A. coMMUNis, but quite distinct. I have de- 

 scribed this species as erratica Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1855, 353. 



35. A. PALLiPES Kirby. Correctlj' determined in my cabinet. 

 Narrower and more convex than angustata Say, with the basal 

 foveas verv distinct. 



36. Iso2-)leurus nitidiis \\ Kirby is Amara subtenea Lee. The 

 mentum tooth is not etnarginate and but slightly impressed at tip. 



31. T. macleayi Kirby is a Selenophorus allied to S. stigmosus 

 but with the basal angles of prothorax rectangular. Probably 

 from the Antilles, certainly not East Indian. 



38. Miscodera AMERICANA Mann. (coll. Chaudoir) is very simi- 

 lar to M. IIardyi Chaud., but is smaller, more bronzed, witli more 

 globose and narrower prothorax, and elj^tral stri.ne still more 

 obliterated. 



39. DiCyELUS scuLPTiLTS Say. The more convex and shining 

 northern race of this species has been named intricatus by Baron 

 Chaudoir. 



40. D. ambiguus Fertd, not different from opacus Fertd, and 

 rejlexus Lee. 



41. Badister peUatus \ Dej. The insect mentioned as the Ameri- 

 can variet}' of this species is B. flavipes Lcc. 



42. Licinus silphoides. Two specimens of this insect from 

 North American turpentine are in the Oxford Museum. I have 

 seen several which were taken alive in Massacliusetts ; so that it 

 must be regarded as fairlj' introduced into our fauna. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



43. Chl^nius fulgiceps Newman, could not be found in the 

 British Museum. 



44. G. emarginatus | Kirby, could not be found. 



45. C. impundifrons || Kirby, b^'^ comparison is C. pensylva- 

 Nicus Say. 



46. G. chlorophaniis Dej. is C. solitarius Say. 



47. C. cordicollis Kirby is G. chlorophanusX Lee. = G. Le- 

 contei\. Dej. 



48. G. quadricollis Kirby is a green variety of tricolor, and 

 not brevilabris Lee, which is not among Kirbj^'s specimens. 



49. PoLPocHiLE Sol. = Melanotus || Dej. = Gratocara Lee. = 

 Phymatocephalus Schaum. 



50. Harpalus laticollis Kirby on comparison proves to be Ani- 

 SODACTYLUS NiGERRiMUS Dej., and not A. Harrisii Lee. as incor- 

 rectly stated by me in Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 



5L H. INTERPUNCTATUS Kirby is the species which I have de- 

 termined (New Species p. 15) as A.nigrita Dej., but which Baron 

 Chaudoir considers different, and has named A. Lecontei. 



52. H. ocHROPUS Kirby agrees with desertus Lee, except that 

 the hind angles of the prothorax are nearly impunctate. 



53. H. BASiLLARis Kirby is obesidus Lee. and = Amara externa 

 Walker. 



54. DiCHiRUS BRUNNEUS Dej. (coll. Chaudoir) is like piceus in 

 form, but smaller, with the hind angles of the prothorax rectan- 

 gular and slightly prominent. 



55. Trechus similis Kirby is the common Agonoderus^ with 

 the hind angles of the prothorax rounded ; comma Fabr. (fide 

 Zimm. pallipes\, Saj', Dej.) 



56. T.Jlavijjes Kirby is Bradycellus rupestris (Say). 



57. T. rujicrus Kirby is B. cognatus, as correctly observed by 

 Baron Chaudoir. 



58. T. immunis Kirby is Stenolophus conjunctus (Sa}-). 



59. Peryphus concolor Kirby. On renewed examination this 

 appears to be Bembidiura salebratum Lee. 



60. Peryphus picipes Kirby. The specimen is in bad condi- 

 tion, but seems to be of very convex form. It is smaller than 

 7 9-1 8 Sprague, and has the elytral striae very finely punctured. 



6L P. scoPULiNus Kirbj' is B. gelidum Lee. 



62. Notaplms variegatusW Kirby is not versicolor Lee, but a 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



smaller species with more convex prothorax more narrowed at the 

 base ; it seems to be B. pictum Lee. 



63. N. iNTERMEDius Kirb}'^ of the same size as versicolor, but 

 with the sides of the prothorax distinctly sinuate near the base; 

 seems to be B. rapidum Lee. 



64. N. NiGRiPES Kirby, ver}- similar to intermedius, but nearly 

 black, with small pale spots and dark legs. 



05. Tachyla picipes Kirby is T. inornatus (Say) = T. nanus 

 of Europe, as correctly determined by Schaum, Ins. Deutschl. i. 



60. Haliplus pantherinus Aube. The type in the British Mu- 

 seum is a small species resembling immaculicollis in size and 

 color. 



67. CoLPius INFLATUS Ijqc = Supliis Douhledayi B. M. Cat. 



68. SuPHis F0RSTER14. ^- ^^- C'at., size of gibbulus, but the 

 elytra are very strongly punctured. 



69. Hydrocanthus Harrisii^ B. M. Cat., size of gibbulus, 

 but narrower, with the elytra black, finely and obsoletely punc- 

 tured. 



TO. Colymbetes pii^eopterus Kirb}-. % with the last joint of 

 front tarsi not deformed ; 9 sides of prothorax finely margined, 

 very slightly rounded, scarcely forming an angle with the elytra, 

 \Q\:y finely reticulate, somewhat dull ; elytra very finely granulato- 

 reticulate, and sparsel}- punctulate. 



Tl. C. BicoLOR Kirby. More regularly elliptical and convex 

 than the preceding, also finely granulato-reticulate, but scarcely 

 punctulate, prothorax similar in form, but not more reticulate in 

 9 than % ; elytra pale towards the sides. Both species are allied 



to AgABUS DISCOLOR. 



T2. C. RETiGULATUS Kirb}' is allied to Aqabus arcticus of 

 Europe. 



73. Colymbetes sinuatus Lee. should be compared with the 

 European C. Graph, Avhich it closely resembles. 



74. Acilius Maccullochii Kirby is mediatus Say. 



75. Hydroporus exiguus Aubd. Xothing like this is in our 

 collections. 



70. Nkcrophorus melsiiei.meri Kirb}', evidentlj- the form 

 named infodiens Mann. The protliorax is as in marifimus of 

 which it is a variet}^; antenna with the base of the club black, 

 remaining joints red ; elytra witli two bands and epipleuroe red. 



77. N. Ilallii Kirby is orbicollis Say. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



78. N. hebes Kirby is a variety of yespilloides; the protliorax 

 is as in maritimus, club of antemiffi entirely black, elytra with two 

 bauds, the front one extending forwards on the epipleurai to the 

 humeri, leaving a black portion behind the humerus on the upper 

 side of the epipleura. 



79. Leiodes punctostrtatus Kirby has the hind tarsi 4-jointed, 

 and is therefore an Anisotoma, and not Hydnobius, as incorrectly 

 stated by Erichson. The punctures of the rows are very large, 

 and those of the alternate spaces also large. 



80. Pselaphodes Westwood is allied to Tmesiphorus, but 

 differs in form of palpi. 



81. Sintectus Westwood equals Tmesiphorus Lee. The Aus- 

 tralian species closely resembles T. costalis Lee. 



82. Aleochara pallitarsis Kirby is a rather large black Ho- 

 malota, with the prothorax broadly impressed near the base, and 

 feebly channelled; elytra brownish, a little wider than prothorax, 

 finely not densely punctulate and pubescent; abdomen dorsal 

 surface shining, not strongly punctured ; antennte heavy, black, 

 2d and 3d joints each more than ^ longer than 4th ; scape stouter 

 and a little longer than the 2d. A common species. 



83. Tachyp07nis acuductus Kirby is ventriculus Say ; the right 

 elytron is striated and rugose towards the tip, but the left is uni- 

 formly finely punctulate. 



84. T. AFFiNis Kirby is nearly of the same form, but less con- 

 vex; the prothorax very finely, and the elytra very strongly punc- 

 tulate. 



85. Omalium planipenne Miiklin is 0. j^ineti Thomson. 



86. Distemmus ARGUS is very similar to and perhaps identical 

 with a European species of Omalium. 



87. Omalium marginatum Kirby is an Olophrum with the pro- 

 thorax sparsely and coarsely punctured, slightl}' narrowed behind, 

 hind angles obtuse but distinct, disk moderately convex; elytra 

 very strongly punctured, nearly as long as the abdomen. De- 

 scribed by Maeklin under the same name. 



88. 0. sanguineum and perocellatum\. B. M., from Hudson Baj', 

 are allied to 0. convexicolle Lee. 



89. Acidota seriata Lee. is crenata (Fabr.) according to Miiklin, 

 Stettin Ent. Zeitung, 1872, 247. 



89a. Nitidula obscura and ossiuyn Kirby is the black immacu- 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



late species which is not uncomraon in the northern parts of the 

 continent. 



90. N. DiscoiDEA Fabr., Kirby seems to be the Californiau 

 Omosita i7ive7'sa Lee, but the northern specimens are smaller. 



91. Epurjea BOREELLAEr., a small narrow black species similar 

 to NIGRA Miiklin, common to Europe and North America. 



92. EuROPS Wollaston is Nomophloeus Lee. 



93. HESPEROBiENUS TESTACEUS4. Motsch. is a species of Bactri- 

 dium, broader than B. nanum and uniforml}^ testaceous. 



94. Atomaria atra'l Kirby is a small convex shining coarsely 

 punctured species; elytra testaceous, legs and abdomen pale yel- 

 low. Probably a dark variety of A. l^tula Lee, and not at all 

 like the European A.atra. 



95. Anchomma Lee. Compare with Microtelus Sol. Ann. Ent. 

 Tr., 1838, pi. 1, f. 3. 



96. CoRTicARiA DENTicuLATA Kirby is quite 'different from C. 

 Serrata of the same collection ; it is smaller, nearl}^ black, pro- 

 thorax broadh' and deeply foveate near the base, sides much 

 rounded, regularly and less coarsel}' serrate. 



9*7. LoBERUS Lee. ; a species of this genus from Chili is in the 

 British Museum. 



98. CATOGENUSPUNCicoLLisNewm.is not in the British Museum. 



99. Penthelispa Pascoe (Oct. 18G0) is Endectus Lee. (May, 

 1801). 



100. MiNTHEA Pascoe seems allied to Trogoxylon Lee. 



101. Hemipeplus marginipennis Lee. seems to be OchroBanis 

 Dohrnii Pascoe, 1866. 



102. Elacatis\\ Pascoe (1860), is Othnil'S Lee. (1861.) The 

 geographical distribution of this genus is very remarkable ; Borneo 

 and United States. 



108. Thorictus; I saw in Mr. SalM's collection the onl3' repre- 

 sentative of this family thus far found in America ; a small species 

 collected in San Domingo. 



104. Byrriius PiciPES Kirb}', a rather large species with a trans- 

 verse subniarginal black spot on the elj^tra behind the middle. It 

 is correctly determined in my s^^nopsis. 



105. DicnELONYCHA viRESCENS Kirb^' is the common northern 

 species with the prothorax tolerably densel}' punctured, thinly 

 pubescent, feeblj' channelled ; the lateral angles are distinct, the 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



basal ones well defined acnte, luit not prominent. It is subvittata 

 of my synopsis, Journ. Acad. Nat. So., 2d. ser. iii. 279. 



106. Melolontha paradoxa Beauvois, according to Salle, is 

 Bhijndandrus Jiabellicornis (Sturm). 



107. The Australian genera Phyllotocus and Macrothops Mc- 

 Leay are related to Oncerus Lee. in form and by the double 

 epistoma. 



108. Cheiragra McLeay from Australia is allied to Chnaunan- 

 THUS Burm. and Acratus Horn. The position of the spiracles 

 must be obserA'cd in these genera to determine their true affinities. 



109. Liogenys, Homalochilus, and Hllarianus have the propy- 

 gidiura connate with the fifth ventral as in Diplotaxis, which they 

 resemble in form and sculpture. 



110. Hypotrichia Lee. and Plectrodes Horn agree inform and 

 general characters with Clavipalpus, but the last differs in having 

 the ungues alike, and armed with a broad acute tooth. The pro- 

 P3'gidium is connate wath the fifth ventral and the spiracle is placed 

 on the connecting suture ; the fifth ventral is elongated. 



111. Leuretra Er. resembles Clavipalpus b}' the fifth ventral 

 being elongated, but the mouth organs are less developed, as in 

 other Pachypodidfe, with which the three genera mentioned in 110 

 must probably be associated. 



112. Diplotaxis GEORGiiE; Blanchard (Paris Museum) is similar 

 to D. SUBCOSTATA Blauch. but larger, with the prothorax more 

 sparsel}'^ and coarsely punctured, and the interspaces of the elytra 

 flatter and not subcostate behind. D. moesta of the same collec- 

 tion seems only an individual variation of subgostata, larger 

 than usual, with the punctures of the occiput and prothorax more 

 feeble. 



113. D. Harperi Blanch, is allied to excavata, but is ferrugi- 

 nous, with the epistoma rounded, not at all truncate, and frontal 

 carina impressed at the middle. . 



114. D. frondicola | Blanch, is also ailied to excavata, black, 

 with the elytra a little more rugosely punctured ; seems onlj' an 

 individual variety. 



115. D. punctato-rugosa Blanch, is excavata Lee. The form 

 is not "breviter ovata" as described, and the upper tooth of the 

 front tibise is feeble. The description being erroneous, the name 

 should be dropped into synonymy. 



22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



IIG. Ancylonycha PROFUNDA Blanchai'd seems to be Lachno- 

 sterna rugoaa Lee. 



in. ^. brevicollis Blanch, is a race of L. fusca, = consimilis 

 Lee. 



118. A.fervida \ Blanch, (nee Fahr.) is L. obesa Lee. 



119. A. j)nncticollis Blanch, is a race of fusca. 



120. A.fervens % Blanch, (nee Gyll.) is congrua Lee. 



121. A. uniformis Blanch, is L. ephelida (Sa}). 



122. A. pruinosa J Blanch, (nee Mels.) = L. futilis Lee. 



123. A. fraterna (Harris), correct. 



124. A. KNOCHii Gyll.; correct for one 9, sexual characters 

 as in PROFUNDA (rugosa Lee.). Under the same label are two 

 specimens of another species allied to prunina. 



125. A. crenulata | Blanch, is L. hirticula (Knoch). 



126. A. CRASsissiMA Blanch, is a short stout species from Texas ; 

 the % sexual characters as in fusca; 9 with last ventral segment 

 semicircularly incised at tijD ; obesa Lee. 



127. A. GLABERRiMA Blanch. My determination (Synopsis 

 Journ. Acad. iSTat. Sc. 1. c. 242) is correct. 



128. A.micansX Blanch, (nee Knoch); two 9 which seem to be 

 L. CERASiNA Lee. or an allied species. 



129. A. DiFFiNis Blanch. A very distinct species ; % with the 

 fixed spur of hind tibise elongated, and last ventral segment not 

 impressed ; antennal club very long. 



130. A. iiiRSUTA Knoch, correct. 



131. A. pilosicolis Knoch, is the race of L. tristis (Fabr.), with 

 the pubescence of the elytra longer than usual. 



132. Cremastociiilus IIarrisii Kirby (Mus. Oxon.) has the 

 prothorax shining, the front angles are rounded and auriculate, the 

 sides are deeply impressed behind the front angles ; the hind angles 

 are not much retracted, surrounded by a deep sulcus; there is a 

 patch of hair on the disk each side in front of the hind angles ; the 

 mentuni is deeply notched behind. 



133. My notes on Buprcstidai from the types of Gory and 

 Laporte, now in the collection of Count Mniszech in Paris, have 

 been parti}' utilized by Mr. Crotch in his "Notes on the species 

 of Buprestida} found in the L^nited States" (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sc. Phil. 1873, p. 84). But it remains for me here to express the 

 great obligations I am under to Count Mniszech, and to the other 

 possessors of types which 1 had occasion to study, for the facilities 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



for comparison and the great joersonal kindness extended to me 

 during my short visits to the larger cities of Europe, 



134. DiCERCA OBSCURA {Fobr.) Lee. is B. lurida and consimilis 

 Gor}-^ and Laporte. 



135. D. hilaris Lee. 9 ; manca Lee. % , is tuberculata G. and L. 



136. D. DISTINGUENDA G. and L. is colored like hilaris^ but 

 stouter, with the hind angles of prothorax less prolonged; pro- 

 bablj' a bright % specimen of D. tenebrosa Kirb3\ 



137. D. PRUiNOSA G. and L. resembles lurida, but the prothorax 

 is slightly wider behind; middle tibiae % obtusely angulated on 

 inner side ; sor^or Lee. 



138. D. obscura J Gory is baltimorensis (Herbst.) Lee. 



139. D. scoBiNA Chevr. is molitor Mels. and asperata L. and G. 



140. D. SPRETA G. and L. is imjjj^essifrons Mels. 



141. D. TUBERCULATA Chevr. is Dumoulinii Gory ; the prothorax 

 is widely dilated on the sides as in crassicollis* Lee, and the 

 disk is deeply excavated obliquel}' each side; the markings are 

 irregular as in scobina. 



142. JD. coryphsea \. Dej. is a very large southern form of spreta. 



143. D. maculosa 4- Gory is lepida Lee. 



144. D. erect a L. and G. is P(ECIL0N0Ta cyanipes (Say). 



145. Ancylochira dilatata Motscli. is l^viventris Lee. 



146. A. crenata Motsch. is Langii Mann. 



141. A. villosa n. sp. Elytra like aurulenta, prothorax flat- 

 tened, side margin thickened, disk with a broad dorsal stripe, and 

 oblique space each side smooth ; prothorax and under surface thinly 

 clothed with long soft white hair. California, coll. Mniszech. 



148. A. AFRICANS Ilerbst. A specimen was collected by Lor- 

 quin in California. 



149. llelayiophila luteosignata Dej. is a small variety' of notata 

 with more convex prothorax. 



150. Anthaxia bivittata L. and G. Not in our collections ; 

 nearly as elongate as flavimana. 



151. A.yENEOGASTER L. and GAsexpansa 9 audfoveicollis % Lee. 



152. Chrysobotiiris errans L. and G. is very near cupro.enea 

 L. and G. ^oni Caj-enne, and is probably from South America. 



153. C. Alabamse Gor}^ is similar to the ordinary race of femo- 

 RATA, but the prothorax is more narrowed behind and more deeply 

 channelled ; C. nigritula Gory is similar but more deeply punctured. 




332 PROOEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



C difficihs Gory is also similar, but with the hinder impression of 

 the elj'tra more siuuated, and is == rugosiceps Mels. 



154. C. ignipes Gory is sexsignata (Say). 



155. G. Germari Gor^- seems to be a variet}- of the Mexican C. 

 Solieri, and has not occurred thus far in the United States. 



156. C. femorata (Fabr.) coll. Dej. is vii'idiceps Mels. 



151. G. viridipunctata Gory is a variety of hybernata in which 

 the metallic green spot at the base of the elytra extends be3'ond 

 the impression. 



158. G.fioricola Gory is calcarata Mels. and /emorato ;{; L. 

 and G. 



159. G. riigosula Gory is Actenodes acornis (Say). 



160. Actenodes bella Lee. does not differ from aureonotata 

 Gory, found in Cuba and South America ; the locality of the 

 specimen collected in Georgia is absolutely correct. 



161. G. basalis Lee. is atabalipa Gory and Golobagaster mxilti. 

 stigmosa Mann. 



162. C. Lesueurt Gorj^ is so7'or Lee. 



163. G.fastidiosa Gory is Lesueiwi J Lee. 



164. G. quadriipressa Qory misella Lee. is a small variety of 

 this species. 



165. G. nigrofasciata % Lee, Tr. Am. Phil. Soc, xi., 240, is quite 

 different from the Mexican species, and from melazona Gory ; it 

 may therefore be named atrifasciata. 



166. Folycesta obtusa Lee. seems to be velasco L. and G. ; there 

 is an error in the reference to the plate in my paper, it should be 

 fig. 6, not 7. 



] 67. AcM^EODERA MIMA Gor3^ is semivittata Lee. 



168. A. PULCiiELLA (Ilerbst.) Gory and dispar Gory are ^-1. 

 variegata and mixta Lee. 



169. A. STELLARis Chcvr. is rubronotata Gory, hsemorrhoa Lee., 

 and faaciatopunctata Chevr. 



170. A. FLAVOSTicTA \. Sturm is croceonotata % Lee. 



171. A. cupRiNA Spin.; two specimens were collected in Cali- 

 foinia, by Lorquin, one of which was kindl}' given to me by Count 

 Mniszech. 



172. Mastooenius Solicr is the same as Haplostethus Lee. 



173. CoR.EBUS CALiQiNOSus Gory is a South American species. 



174. Agrilus nigricans Gory, size of ruficollis, finely punc- 

 tured, hind angles of thorax scarcely carinate. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



175. A. PULCHELLTJS Bland; I saw a specimen of this species 

 from Texas, in tlie collection of Mr. Perroud, at Lyons ; and in 

 the same collection I saw two new species: 1, larger than acuti- 

 PENNis, bronzed, coarsely punctured, hind angles of prothorax 

 acutel}^ carinated ; 2, larger and stouter than mutigus Lee, more 

 shining, bright green. 



176. A. Couesii Lee. is aureus Chevr. and perlucidus Gory. 



177. A. ZEMES Gory % is quadriguttatus Gory 9. 



178. Brachys corvina Gory is lugubris Lee. 



179. B. TESSELATA Fabr. is l^vicauda Lee, according to Gory. 



180. B. PRiETEXTA Gory is the small black species resembling 



TESSELATA. 



181. Phlegon herculeanus Lacordaire is South American, and 

 must therefore be stricken from the List. 



182. Adelocera sparsa Cand., quite distinct; not uncommon 

 in California. 



183. A. PROFUSA Cand., is cavicoUis Lee. 



184. Meristhus scobinula Cand. The Chinese specimens have 

 the scutellum very strongly and acutely carinate; in the Mexican 

 it is finely carinate, and in both the sides of the prothorax and 

 the basal edge are 7iot serrate. 



185. Alaus gorgops Lee. is El. lusciosus Hope, Griff. An. Kingd., 

 363, pi. 31. 



186. Perimecus similis Kirby, size of M. communis, but a little 

 narrower ; prothorax more coarsely and sparsely punctured, 

 scarcely impressed behind ; third joint of antennae nari'ower and 

 shorter than fourth, about twice as long, but scarcely wider than 

 Second ; hind angles of prothorax bicarinate. 



187. Melanactes piceus. In the Oxford Museum I saw two 

 specimens from the Lee collection labelled E. aterrimus Fabr. and 

 one E. lacunosus Fabr. 



188. Odontonyx. There is a beautiful species of this genus 

 from China in the Oxford Museum, in which the % has the anten- 

 nse ramose. 



189. Telepiiorus mandibularis Kirby, is the smaller black 

 species, with the prothorax more convex and feebly channelled, 

 and the lustre obscured by very fine hairs. T. fraxini Say is 

 larger and has the prothorax more polished, and more deeply' 

 impressed. 



190. Dasytes foveicollis Kirby belongs to Psilothrix. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



191. TilluH picipennis White, B. M. Cat., from India, is the cos- 

 mopolitan Tausostenus univittatus. 



192. Hydnocera rufipes Newra. is a beautiful blue species, of 

 the same form as iiumeralis, with the elytra very coarsely but 

 not densel}^ punctured, mouth, antennae, and legs bright reddish- 

 3-ellow. 



193. H. iEQRA Newm. Quite distinct from an}- species in our 

 collections. The protliorax is narrowed behind, constricted at 

 each end ; el^'tra shining, strongly' punctured. 



194. Driamerls Solier from Chili resembles strouglj' and is 

 perhaps congeneric with Melyris cribratus Lee. 



195. The Australian genus Omma Newm. is evidentl}- allied to 

 CuPES, especially to C serrata Lee, and is one of those curious 

 examples of geographical distribution, of which we have already' 

 instances in Derataphrus, Nyctoporis, and Tmesiphorus. A 

 species of Cupes occurs in Japan, which, on the other hand, re- 

 sembles C. CONCOLOR from the Atlantic States. 



19G. Stagetus Wollaston should be compared with Protheca 

 Lee. Tlie resemblances between the Coleopterous fauna of Xorth 

 America and the Atlantic Islands are neither few nor unim- 

 portant. 



197. Lebasiella pallipes King is JiigrijDennis Lee, a Mexican 

 species to be stricken from the list. 



198. Nyctipetus. One of the most extraordinary instances that 

 I have noticed, of resemblance whicli, if connected by geographi- 

 cal coincidence, would be termed mimicr}', is between a Cliilian 

 species of this genus, living in arid plains, and Amphizoa Le- 

 coNTEi Matthews, a subaquatic adephage found in Vancouver and 

 Utah. 



199. Emeax sculpturatus Pascoe, from Australia, is a species 

 of Nyctoporis, barelj^ different from N. galeata Lee, which is 

 found at San Diego, California, by the humeri heingnof denlij'orin, 

 though the hind angles of the prothorax are rectangular and 

 prominent. 



200. P]leodes tuberculata Mann, is viator Lee. 



201. Eleodes subluberculata "Walker is granulata Lee. 



202. E. latiuscula Walker is humeralis Lee. 



203. E. binotata Walker is sponsa Lee. 



204. E. conjnnefa and conveoricoUis Walker are obscura (Say). 



205. Exercstus liates is Khinaxdrus Lee. (1862): E. Janaoni 

 Bates is K. elongatus Horn, from Nicaragua. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



20fi. Pohjpleurus geminatus ^Dej. according to the tj-pes in 

 Mr. F. Bates's collection, is the smaller species Avith narrower 

 prothorax. 



20t. According to Mr. F.Bates the genera Calcar, Zolodinus, 

 and Centorus are exceptions to the ordinary structure of the ventral 

 segments in the allied genera, the hind margin of the segments 

 not being membranous, but entirely corneous, as in Asidida?. 



208. Tenebrio castaneus, as pointed out to me by Mr. Bates, 

 agrees with the genera just named in the ventral segments being 

 entirel}^ corneous, but is peculiar in having the eyes completely 

 divided by the eyes as in Blapstinus. It evidently indicates a new 

 genus, to be associated with the others as a distinct tribe, Cal- 



CARINI. 



209. Pachyurgus iEREUS (Mels.) seems to be Encyaleslhes 

 hrevicornis Motsch., found in Java, Gilola, Malaysia ; it is there- 

 fore to be stricken from the list. 



210. Ephalus Lee. does not in the least resemble Leichenum, 

 with which.it is united by Gemminger and Harold. 



211. RuiPiDANDRUS Lee. I have seen a species from Guada- 

 loupe in the collection of Mr. Salle, to whom I am indebted for 

 the remark that Melolontha paradoxa Beauv. is the same as 

 R. fiabellicornis. Vide No. lOG. 



212. IcTiSTYGMA Pascoc, from Australia, seems hardly different 



from EURYGENIUS. 



213. Isghalia Pascoe (1860) is Eupleurida Lee. (18G2). The 

 North American species dift'ers from the Bornean one chiefly in 

 color, the latter being of a uniform indigo color, while the former 

 is black and yellow. 



214. Macr atria linearis Newm. The base of the prothorax is 

 not narrower than the widest part in front of the middle, and the 

 species does not seem to differ from the common M. murina. 



215. EusTROPHUS BicoLOR. The proper authority for this species 

 is Sa}', the first describer; Mycetophogua bicolor Fabr. is probabl}' 

 a Platyderaa. 



215a. ScRAPTiA. Several allied foreign genera have the eyes 

 hairy like X^dophilus, Stereopalpus, etc. 



21 G. Anaspis collaris Lee. should be compared with the Euro- 

 pean A. RUFICOLLIS. 



217. Toposcopus Lee. I saw in the collection of Mr. Fry an 

 Australian species of this genus, and also a new genus having 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



like it divided e3'es, but of broader form, with the. ramus of third 

 antennal joint as long as the others. 



218. Meloe impressa Kirby; the prothorax is a little longer 

 than broad, dull, sparsely ijunctured, elytra deeply rugose ; color 

 dark blue ; % with the antenuffi irregular. 



219. M. NIGRA Kirb}'. Quite different, prothorax shorter, more 

 convex, more punctured, head also more punctured, elytra less 

 deeply rugose, abdomen extremely finely rugose; color nearly 

 black. 



220. Apate (Lepisomus) rufijpennis and nigiHceps Kirby are 

 specimens of Polygraphus. 



221. A. (Z/.) brevicornis Kirby is in such bad condition as to 

 be not recognizable. 



222. Cerambycid^. My notes on this famil}' have been em- 

 ployed in the parts of the classification, Xew Species, and List 

 of North America Coleoptera relating to this family, with the ex- 

 ception of the few here detailed. 



228. Clytus decorus Oliv. Oxford Museum ; a species of 

 Cyllene not in our collections. 



224. Clytus carinatus Gory. Oxford Museum. Not in our 

 collections ; perhaps South American. 



225. Clytus compressicollis Gory, like verrucosus, but with 

 protliorax much more compressed and elevated; perhaps an indi- 

 vidual variation. 



226. Clytus antennatus "White, Brit. Mus. Cat., 252, is Arlio- 

 jyalus eurystefhus Lee. 



227. Phyton pallidum (Say). A specimen in the British Mu- 

 seum is labelled maculatum Oliv. (Saperda),but it agrees so little 

 with the description that we are not warranted in adoi^ting the 

 S3nonymy. 



228. Stenaspis unicolor Dupont is Cer. solitarius Say. 



229. Elaphidion arctum Newm. is the common small narrow 

 species with the antennal spines short, and the el^'tral spines long, 

 and was considered by Dejean as E. villosum Fabr. 



230. E. villosum (Fabr.) Newm. is putator Peck, pruinosuni 

 (jDej.) Gu(?rin. 



231. Agminopsis Thomson is Talxopora \.TfQ].^ Adetus Lee. 

 The type given me by Dr. Melsheimer (PoLYOPSiA analis Hald.) 

 is Brazilian, and not North American. 



232. Psenocerus supernotatus (Say.), Acharis lunifera fDej. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



33T 



ON TWO NEW SPECIES OF SATIRODONTID^. 



BY E. D. COPE, A.M. 

 PORTHEUS LESTRIO, Cope. 



Represented by a portion of the cnminm, including both man- 

 dibnlar rami, and the maxillar}' and premaxillary bones of one 

 side, all with dentition nearly complete. The size of these parts 

 considerably exceeds that of corresponding ones in the tAvo other 

 species of the genus, and indicates a large and powerful fish. It 

 differs from the P. molossus and P. thaumas,^ in having three pre- 

 maxillary teeth instead of two, and in the relative positions, num- 

 bers, and sizes of the other teeth ; also in the prominent edentulous 

 superior distal extremity of the dentary bone. 



The first premaxillary is very large, the two others of moderate 

 size. These are followed by a long rugose diastema before the 

 maxillary teeth begin; these are, one small, five large, twenty-two 

 small, and eleven or twelve very small. The mandibular teeth 

 are, one very large, one immense, one small, one medium, four 

 small, eight large, and two small ; total eighteen. The teeth are 

 all simply round or oval in section, and the external, probabl}'' 

 cementum layer, is smooth. The maxillary bone has two large 

 superior proximal cond3des, separated by a space ; the anterior is 

 the narrower, and is directly behind the premaxillary condyle. 

 The anterior margin of the latter bone is very rugose. 



M. 



Length of tooth line of upper jaw 300 



" " premaxillary 058 



Depth, premaxillary (axial) . 

 " maxillary at second condyle 

 " " twentieth tooth 



Diameter base first premaxillary tooth . 



" bases five large maxillaries 

 Length of dentary above . ... 



Depth at second large tooth . 



" at last tooth 



Diameter base first large tooth 

 " " second " 



Length crown of second large tooth 

 " " sixth from behind 



.095 

 .095 

 .065 

 .018 

 .053 

 .270 

 .095 

 .105 

 .013 

 .020 

 .050 

 .025 



' See Proceedings Am. Philosophical Society (On Fishes of the Kansas 

 Cretaceous) January, 1872. 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



If of the same proportions as the P. violossus^ the vertical 

 diameter of the head of this fish would be twenty-three inches. 



A complete cranium of a Po7iheus, probably the P. molossus, 

 for which I am indebted to my friend Professor Merrill, of Lincoln 

 University, at Topeka, Kansas, furnishes several points of interest 

 previouslj' unknown. The moutii is nearly vertical, somewhat as 

 in Osmei'oides, while the vertex is surmounted by an elevated crest. 

 Hence the superior and inferior facial outlines meet at a riglit angle 

 at the muzzle. The orbit is small, and there is a suborbital chain 

 of laminiform bones. The elevation of the skull is 16.75 inches, 

 while the length is only 12.75 inches. 



The specimen of P. leatris was procured by Professor B. F. 

 Mudge, of Manhattan, Kansas, during his survey of 1872, near 

 the Solomon River. Prof. Merrill's specimen was obtained from 

 the same region. 



PORTHEUS GLADIUS, Cope. 



Established on a spine of the kind which I have supposed to be 

 pectoral, and which resembles one I have described (loc. cit., p. 

 382) as from P. molossus or P. thaumas. It is, however, relatively, 

 much thicker than that one, and absolutely much larger, and might 

 pertain to the P. lei<tris^ but there is no evidence to that effect. 



When complete, the spine measured, according to Professor 

 Mudge, fort3'-one inches in length ; the portion now before me 

 measures thirt^'-one inches. The margin is exceedingly acute and 

 is coated with an enamel-like layer, Avhich conceals the rods of 

 which the spine is composed. >'ear the middle of its length these 

 rods number thirty, but whether the entire width is preserved is 

 uncertain. The transverse section is a crescent from the base to 

 beyond the middle, the surface being thus somewhat trough-like. 

 The spine has been somewhat distorted by pressure, but I cannot 

 discover that the form in question is entirely due to that cause. 

 The edge is excavated and notched at irregular points, indicating 

 the frequent use to which this formidable weapon was put during 

 the life of its possessor. 



M. 



Total length (r/rfe Mudge) 1-040 



Width near middle I'^-'J 



Thickness posteriorly in middle 012 



Discovered by Prof. Mudge near the upper waters of the Solo- 

 mon River, Kansas. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



DAPTINUS, Cope, gen. nov. 



This genus is proposed for the Samoce2:)halusphlebotomus, Cope. 



The form of the crowns of the teeth is that of Samoceph.alus and 

 Ei'isichthe, but it difters from the latter in their perfect equality of 

 size. It differs from the former in the position of the nutritious 

 foramina of the inner side of the dentary bone, for instead of form- 

 ing an independent series as in that genus, the}^ only appear as 

 notches on the inner margins of the alveoli. But one species is 

 known as above, which is from the Niobrara cretaceous of Kansas. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



ON SOME NEW BATRACHIA AND FISHES FROM THE COAL MEASURES 



OF LINTON, OHIO. 



BY E. D. COPE, A.M. 



The following descriptions of some interesting forms are pub- 

 lished by permission of Prof. John S. Newberry, who procured the 

 specimens in the course of the geological surve3r of Ohio, of which 

 he is director. 



LEPTOPHRACTUS, Cope, gen. nov. 



Established on various portions of the cranium of a large Ba- 

 trachian allied to the Labyrinthodontia. The top of the head is 

 covered with angular plates or scuta arranged in the following 

 manner on tlie region preserved. Two symmetrical scuta occupy 

 the median line, one in front of the other. One of these is a 

 longish or coffin-shaped hexagonal, with the suture with the other 

 concave. The latter is more ovoid, broad and couA^ex next the 

 first mentioned, and somewhat more contracted at the opposite 

 extremity. Beyond this are two shields joining by a straight 

 suttire on the middle line ; besides this one, they have two con- 

 cave sutures for scuta, at the fartlier end two concave lateral 

 sutures, and a straight one to the adjoining median scutum, whose 

 suture is also concave. On each side of this median plate is a 

 large area surrounded before, outwards, and behind by smaller 

 scuta, three in front, two at the side, and two behind. Commenc- 

 ing with the first. No. 1 has been already described ; No. 2 is small, 

 oval, and antero-posterior ; No. 3 is an antero-posterior pentagon 

 with the narrowest side inwards; No. 4 is a similar transverse 

 pentagon ; No. 5 is an antero-posterior pentagon which presents its 

 shorter lateral facet inwards; No. G has a similar character, but is 

 smaller and with more definite angles. Another series of scuta is 

 seen outside of these at one end of the series. Three of this set 

 bound tlie front and side of each of the median pair above men- 

 tioned, leaving a short facet next its fellow unaccounted for. 



The sculi)ture consists of radiating ridges and tubercles which 

 are most broken near the centres of the scuta. 



The teeth are rather distantl}' grooved for some distance above 

 the base. They arc of different sizes; the smaller are compressed 

 and with fore and aft cutting edges. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 341 



This type is weaker and more slender than Lab^'rinthodon, and 

 the cranial scuta appear to be very thin. It is possible that this 

 part of the specimen ma}^ only be a cast, but I am not satisfied of 

 this. 



LEPTOPHRACTUS OBSOLETUS, Cope, spec. nov. 



The tubercles and ridges of the cranium are obtuse and low, and 

 the latter do not inosculate. An angular depression commences 

 at the middle of each lateral area and extends across the middle 

 line at the point of junction of the paired and single median scuta. 



The external surface of the dentary bone is marked with short 

 oblique grooves along its middle region ; above these are grooves 

 which inosculate, forming a figure like an open net dragged in the 

 long direction. Excepting the grooves the teeth are smooth. The 

 smaller ones are close togetlier, and their crowns are curved back- 

 wards ; the larger ones are at more remote intervals ; both have 

 enlarged bases ; whether both forms are in the same series I can- 

 not determine. There are from four to five of the smaller in an 

 inch. 



M. 



Depth of fragment of jaw (margin wanting) , . . .075 



Length smaller teeth 019 



" longer " 023 



Width of vertex at middle scuta 176 



" of paired median scuta 056 



" of single " 036 



Length of " " 048 



Some vertebrae were found at the same locality, but there is no 

 evidence as to the species to which they may have pertained. They 

 are short, concave on one end and probably so on the other. The 

 centrum of one is .012 in. in diameter; neural arches injured. 



The Leptophr actus was about as large as a medium sized 

 alligator. 



CONCHIOPSIS, Cope. 



This genus is represented by specimens of several species which 

 all agree in the structure of the scales. These resemble those of 

 the Gyropfychhis of McCoy, in having longitudinal curA^ed ridges, 

 which converge to the posterior margin round an imaginary axis. 

 A rather complete specimen which may be regarded as type, has 

 two dorsal fins and one anal; neither these nor the ventrals are 

 clearly lobate. The caudal fin is equally developed above and 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



below the tapering vertebral column. It is broken off in the t3'pe, 

 but in anotlier specimen is evidently quite elongate, and of the 

 protocercal or isocercal type. There are two huge oval gular 

 plates, as I suppose tliem to be, which are well separated from each 

 other and of a broadlv oval form. 



In another specimen the dentition of one of the jaws is exhibited 

 as a double series of small, subequal, subconical crowns. In still 

 another tlie pectoral fin is displayed as broadl}' and obtusely 

 lobate. Whether these all belong to the same genus may be un- 

 certain, but their resemblance is very close. Size not large. The 

 genus is evidently allied to the Gyclodipieridse. 



CONCHIOPSIS FILIFERUS, Cope. 



About twelve rows of scales between the dorsal and ventral fins, 

 which stand opposed to each other, and half way between the gular 

 shields and the line of the equall}" opposite second dorsal and ven- 

 tral. Sculpture of the gular plates, a longitudinal thread-like rib- 

 bing parallel to the inner borders. 



M. 



Length from gular plates to anal fin 057 



Depth at D. 1 088 



" D. 2 02G 



The type specimen was obtained and presented to me by my 

 friend "William Kite. 



CONCHIOPSIS ANGULIFERTJS, Cope. 



Established on a specimen of larger size than the last species, 

 but in which the scales are similar and therefore relativel}'^ smaller. 

 The gular plates have a band of delicate ridges around their outer 

 marsins, and numerous ridges which diverge from the middle of 

 the scale to tlie band. These ridges are undulate. Posterior to 

 the plates on each side is a long incurved bone, perhaps the man- 

 dibular angle. The pectoral fin contains about thirteen radii. 

 Prof. Newberry's collection. 



CONCHIOPSIS EXANTHEMATICUS, Cope. 



Estaltlished on a cranium entirely preserved as to its outline, 

 with adjaeent portion of space for chorda dorsalis and osseous 

 ribs. The head is covered with thin scuta, Avhich are very faintly 

 sculptured with a few raised lines. The gular shields are oval and 

 sculptured with elevated points, producing a weakly rugose sur- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



face. The teeth above described are on this fish. There are six iu 

 three mm. 



M. 



Widtli at shields 0.15 



" at middle muzzle 030 



Length of head 045 



Prof. Newberry's collection. 



PEPLOKHINA, Cope. 



Established on a species similar to those of the last genus, but 

 with a peculiar sculpture of the scales, which consists of raised 

 points or small tubercles. There is a lateral line of tubes which I 

 cannot find in Conchiopsis. An angular bony shield is present 

 behind the gular scutum. There are well ossified ribs, but the 

 structure of the fins cannot be made out at present. 



PEPLOKHINA ANTHRACINA, Cope. 



Scales large, well imbricated ; each one is .01 m. in elevation, 

 and three enter .02 longitudinally. The gular and other scuta are 

 smooth, except a band of shallow grooves round the margin. 



M. 



Length of gular scutum 021 



" scute behind it 014 



From Prof. Newberry's collection. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW MARINE SHELLS FROM THE WEST COAST OF 



FLORIDA. 



BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS. 

 Anachis semiplicata, Stearns. 



Shell small, solid, elongated-ovate ; spire elevated, pointed ; 

 whorls 7-8; slightly convex, with inconspicuous revolving grooves, 

 which latter become prominent on the lower portion 

 ^iS- 1- of the body-whorl ; upper portion of the basal, and a 

 portion of the contiguous volution marked b}' 9-12 

 moderately sharp longitudinal ribs, which become 

 obsolete on the lower part of the basal whorl, and 

 inconspicuous or extinct on the upper whorls, vary- 

 ing in prominence in different specimens ; suture dis- 

 tinct; aperture about half the length of the shell, 

 white, narrow, widest and angulated above ; outer lip 

 simple, thickened near the middle, somewhat thickened, shoul- 

 dered, and curved at its junction with the bod3--wliorl, and no- 

 dosely ribbed within ; inner lip calloused, callous thin, elevated, 

 and finely tuberculated on its inner edge ; canal short, moderately 

 recurved. Number of specimens examined fifteen, of which the 

 laroest and smallest measure as follows : 



Most of the specimens were so coated as not to show the color; 

 when cleansed the surface is of a light sienna-j'ellow, closely 

 covered with white rounded spots, which frequently coalesce ; apex 

 general 1}' eroded. 



Habitat. West Coast of Florida; most abundant at Charlotte 

 Harbor, where Col. E. Jewett collected many specimens, also 

 collected by myself at various points on the shores of Tampa 

 Bay. 



The species described herein belongs to a group of Anachids of 

 the same general aspect, of Avhich A. {Columbella) avai'a, Say, is 

 an illustration. A. semiplicata differs from Mr. Say's shell in 

 having a greater number of wliorls, fewer longitudinal ribs, as 

 well as in color markings, and other minor differences. Through 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



an insufficient conipnrative examination, specimens have been dis- 

 tributed with Mr. Say's name attached. 



Anachis ACUTA, Stcariis. 



Shell small, slender, acutely fusiform ; spire elevated, pointed, 

 nucleus rounded, number of whorls eight; in some specimens 

 slighly convex and traversed longitudinally hy about 

 fifteen nearly equidistant prominent rounded ribs, wliich Fig. 2. 

 are absent on the apex and adjoining whorl, and become 

 obsolete just below the peripliery of the basal volution, 

 which is somewhat angulated below and at its anterior 

 portion marked distinctly with transverse costse ; in some 

 specimens the longitudinal ribs show a tendency to no- 

 dulation, and terminate rather abruptly upon the peri- 

 phery of the body-whorl; suture profound, cutting the 

 ribs abruptly ; aperture one-third of tlie length of the shell, 

 whitish, narrowly ovate, angulate above ; outer lip simple, mode- 

 rately thickened ; slightly shouldered and curved above, with 5-7 

 denticles within, which regular]}' decrease in size anteriorly; inner 

 lip showing a thin polished callus, with, in some specimens, a 

 slightly produced edge ; anterior canal short, moderately curved. 

 The shells of tliis species are quite variable in color, some indi- 

 viduals being of a porcellanous white, with transverse sienna lines 

 and lighter or darker blotches of the same color; others are of a 

 light sienna-yellow, with whitish blotches and brown linear mark- 

 ings. The following are the dimensions of the largest and smallest 

 specimens : 



Length .26. Length of aperture .09. Breadth .08. 



" .23. " " .08. " .09. 



Habitat West Coast of Florida, at Egmont Key, where several 

 specimens were collected by my friend E. Jewett, Esq. It seems 

 to be rather restricted in its distribution, and much less numerous 

 than A. avara or A. simplicata : while the number of ribs is the 

 same as in A. avara, the shell being much slenderer, these ribs are 

 much nearer to each other, and the surface is destitute of the re- 

 volving grooves which characterize that species. 



NiTiDELLA PiLOSA, Stearns. 



Shell small, acutely conic, spire elevated, apex rounded ; whorls 

 five, convex; suture distinct ; surface white, traversed by nume- 

 rous equidistant fine revolving grooves ; body-whorl one-half to 

 23 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF t!iE ACADEMY OF 



three-fifths, and the aperture about cue-fourth the length of the 

 shell ; mouth ovate, outer lip simple, internally ribbed, Ihiclvened 

 at its upper part, turned and reflected upon the body-whorl, 



forming a callus on the upper portion of the columella, 

 Fig. 3. -which latter is rather abruptly shortened and slightly 



twisted anteriorl}'. 



Length .16. Length of aperture .06. Breadth .06. 



Hohitat. West Coast of Florida, on the shores of 

 Tampa Ba}', collected by Col. E. Jewett. Only a few 

 specimens were obtained, of which three are in my 

 cabinet. All the specimens examined by me were beach shells, 

 without opercula, consequently the generic position is somewhat 

 doubtful. This species has apparenth* relations with Nitidella 

 (N. cribraria or N. guttata), also with Truncaria (T.eurytoides), 

 but as these genera at present include many incongruous species, 

 a revision is necessarj- before this and similar forms can be satis- 

 factorily' placed. The genus Nitidella was made by Swainson 

 {vide "Treatise on Malacology," pp. 151-153-313) on the Cohim- 

 bella nitida, a West Indian shell, with a short spire, long body- 

 whorl, and a plait on the columella, a markedly different form from 

 N. guttata or N. cribraria, which are generally included with it. 

 There are numerous allied forms in this connection, which approx- 

 imate so closely that an examination of the opercula is indispen- 

 sable to generic determination. ( Vide remarks of Mr. Dall in 

 Am. Journ. Conch., vol. vii. p. 115.) 



Clathurella Jewetti, Stearns. 



Shell small, abbreviated fusiform, turreted, of a dull ashen-red- 

 dish color when dry, dark-reddish to purplish when wet; number 

 of wliorls six or seven, convex and somewhat flattened 

 Fig. 4. above, sculptured with eleven or twelve prominent lon- 

 gitudinal ribs, which extend nearly or quite to the base of 

 the body- whorl ; longitudinal ribs crossed by ten totwelve 

 strong thread-like lateral costte, which at the points of 

 crossing are in some specimens produced into rounded 

 nodules ; the upper whorls show three to four of the 

 lateral costiT?, generally three ; aperture narrow, about 

 half the length of the shell, of a purj)lish-l)lack or dark-chocolate 

 color; outer lip thickened and deeply notched above ; columella 

 nearly- straight, calloused ; terminal canal short. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Measurements of four specimens as follows : 



Habitat. Rock}' Point, Tampa Bay, West Coast of Florida, 

 where I collected four living specimens from off the underside of 

 clumps of oysters ; also at other points along the shores of said 

 bay and the adjacent keys, by Col. E. Jewett, who obtained many 

 specimens. It is perhaps the most common of the pleurotomoid 

 forms of the above region. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



August 5. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Ten members present. 



August 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Six members present. 



August 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 

 The death of Elias Durand and Dr. L. S. Bolles was announced. 



The Composition of Trautwinile. B}- E. Goldsmith. The 

 very small quantity of the substance I had for the first examina- 

 tion of the above-named mineral (see Proceedings of tlie Academy, 

 Jan. 1, 1873) caused me to overlook a few important elements, 

 namely, silica and lime. 



John C. Trautwine, to whom my thanks are due for procuring 

 more of the substance, has ascertained that the locality of it is 

 Monterey Count}'', California. The mechanical separation of the 

 Trautwinite from the chromite is a difficult and tedious ope- 

 ration ; however, I succeeded so far, that with the lens no black 

 particles of chromite could be discerned. 



As tiie substance is insoluble in acids, I brought it into the 

 soluble condition by fusing it in a mixture of carbonate of soda 

 and saltpetre, treating the fused mass with water until all tlie 

 soluble parts were exhausted, and the insoluble part with hydro- 

 chloric acid. AVliat the acid had not dissolved was again fused 

 with soda and saltpetre, and the obtained mass treated the same 

 as before. From the alkaline solution, after aeidulation and re- 

 ducing the chromic acid to sesquichloride of chromium by hydro- 

 cliloric acid and alcohol, I separated first silica, then the sesqui- 

 oxide of chromium. 



The other solution, containing the bases as chlorides, was 

 evaporated to dryness, moistened with hj'drochloric acid, water 

 added, and tlius I found another small quantity of silica. The 

 alumina and iron were then separated from the lime and magnesia 

 by ammonia; but the iron and alumina were again dissolved and 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



precipitated as before to insure a perfect separation from the lime 

 and magnesia. From tiie mixed liquor containing the alkaline 

 earths the lime was removed as oxalate; the magnesia finall}- 

 after expelling the ammoniacal salts as ammonio-magnesia phos- 

 phate. The iron and alumina were separated b}^ caustic potassa. 

 The iron also in this case was redissolved, and again thrown 

 down with an excess of caustic potassa to render the separation 

 of the alumina as complete as [)ossil)le. After carefully washing 

 the iron, etc., the alumina was separated from the alkali in the 

 usual way. 



The result of the analysis is as follows : 



Silica (Si) = 21.78%. 



Sesquioxide of chromium (^Fl) = 88.oi " 



" iron (Pe) = 13.29 " 



" aluminum (Al) = .81 " 



Lime (Ca) = 18.58 " 



Magnesia (Mgj = 7.88 " 



Loss on ignition = .11 " 



100.84 



By comparison between the silica and the other oxides, I found 

 the ratio to be as 1 : 2.4 nearly ;"that is, when the sesquioxides and 

 the monoxides are added together in their respective equivalent 

 quotients. But if the quotients of the added sesquioxides and 

 the quotients of the added monoxides are compared with the 

 equivalent quotient of the silica, then the ratio of the silica to 

 the sesquioxides and to the monoxides is as 1 : .9 : 1.4. 



These figures could be used for a complicated formula, which, 

 however, I omit, because it would not give any more correct idea 

 of the combination. 



Finally, I am aware that this mineral has been erroneously 

 called ouvarovite, which, as is well known, is a variety of garnet. 



To show the dilTerence in the composition of the two niinerals 

 I give the results of 0. L. Erdman's analysis of ouvarovite and 

 the composition of the new species Trautwinite : 



That these minerals are widely different from each other is 

 readily seen in the two lines of figures ; besides this we have also 

 the difference of form, garnet being isometric and Trautwinite 

 hexagonal. I endeavored repeatedly to project upon paper, 

 through the camera lucida, points for measuring angles of the 

 new mineral, but the results varied so much among themselves 

 that they were not fit for publication. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



August 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenbekger, in tlie chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 



September 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the' chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



September 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent^'-eight members present. 



Mr. Gentry communicated a notice of a great swarm of ephe- 

 nierids which passed through the town of Lewisburg, on the 

 Susquehanna River, on the afternoon of the 22d of August. Tlie 

 swarm was estimated to be about a mile in length by nearly a half 

 mile in width, and was so dense as even to obscure passers-by on 

 the opposite side of the street. 



September 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication: "On a 

 new American species of Glyptocephalus." By Theo. Gill. "De- 

 scription of fifty -two species of Unionida?." By Isaac Lea. 



The last-named paper was, on report of the committee, ordered 

 to be published in the Journal of the Academy. 



September 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



E.rcepHonal CoiuHlionf! ii} the Vegetntion of Forest Seed. Mr. 

 Thomas Mkkhan, in rcfcrenre to the distribution of the Conifin^ 

 of the Rocky Mountains, said, that in any forest it must have 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



struck observers that the trees were all pretty much of one age. 

 Here we see a piece of forest in which the trees might be one hun- 

 dred years old; there another perhaps fifty; and again young 

 ones of from ten, twenty, and so on. They are, however, generally 

 of one age, and though there are some 3^ounger trees of various 

 ages scattered through, the great bulk of each forest started from 

 the seed in the same season together. It was remarkable that of 

 the immense amount of seeds annually produced by forest trees, 

 how few of them grew. In the forests we found, as a rule, few 

 seedlings, and though the boundaries of a piece of woodland might 

 not be under cultivation, so as to destroy any vegetating seeds, 

 the forest boundaries were seldom enlarged in any gradual way. 

 In the woods about Philadelphia, the American white oak was not 

 particularly abundant. Here and there were a few trees in almost 

 every piece of wood ; and though the trees bore acorns onl}^ every 

 other 3'ear as a rule, yet in the bearing season they were more 

 abundant than in most other species ; yet young ones were so 

 scarce that if the forests were cut away three years ago, the suc- 

 cession would not be remarkable for Quercus alba. But in 18Ti2 

 the productive year for the acorns there was something so favor- 

 able to their vegetation that seedlings now abound in these woods, 

 and if the growing timber were now cut away, so as to give these 

 seedlings a fair chance for life, the future forests of this part of 

 Pennsylvania would be especially of white oak as distinctly a 

 white oak region as some parts of our country are fixmous for their 

 pines. We see, however, from this that it is only at special times 

 and under special circumstances, that seeds grow to any great. ex- 

 tent in our comparatively favored forest region, and we can un- 

 derstand better the fact referred to, of forests generalh' having the 

 mass of their timber trees about of one age. 



Carr3ang these facts with us, we may understand some of the 

 phenomena accompanying the forest distribution in the far west. 

 Along the Rock}' Mountain range, as well as in the Wahsatch and 

 Uintas, the prevailing deciduous tree, or rather shrub (for it is 

 scarcely a tree), is what has been supposed to be a variety of Quel-- 

 cus alba (var. Gunnisonii) hy some, and by others a variety of Q, 

 Douglassii (var. 7ieo-3Ie:ricana)^ but wiiich 1 believe Mr. AV'atson 

 has recently made a distinct species under the name of Q. polymor- 

 ph a^i an excellent name when the many varied forms are consid- 

 ered. It is unusual to find it growing in dense thickets, Gene- 

 ralh' it is in clumps of from five to twenty-five or more feet in dia- 

 meter. Each clnmp has evidently started from one seed at some 

 one time; and from one stem, underground suckers proceeding a 

 few inches each season, have made the mass of stems as we see 

 them. One could almost tell the age of the clump by the graded 

 heights of the mass, the tallest of course being in the midille, and 

 the outside often but a few inclies, being the most recent growtli. 

 In this way the mass of varied characters becomes very striking. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



If the parent plant V)e cut leaved, of course the wliole is a cnt- 

 leavod dump. If entire leaved, we have an entire-leaved clump. 

 If not of very vigorous growtli, we have a clump of vegetation not 

 moie than two or three feet high ; and then we have a mass of 

 vigorous growers ; one of the latter in Cheyenne Canon, south of 

 Pike's Peak, he saw with numerous little trees, perhaps thirt3' feet 

 high, and stems two feet in circumference. There appeared no- 

 where, in his many hundred miles of travel, any young seedlings ; 

 indeed no plants anywhere that were probably less than twenty- 

 five years old ; and yet, in both of his visits to these regions, the 

 plants were bearing acorns in the greatest abundance, and evi- 

 dently bore in this way every _year. 



The coniferous trees of this region present the same appearances. 

 Of some species 3'oung ones are rarely seen. This is especially 

 true of Pinus ponderosa, which is perhaps more widely distributed 

 through the Rocky Mountains than any other. The greater num- 

 ber of these trees are between one and two hundred years old. A 

 stump of one of the largest cut down in Williams' Canon, near 

 Colorado Springs, had 216 concentric rings. Young broods of 

 perhaps ten or twenty years old are occasionally seen, but not 

 often. The young broods throughout the region between Gray's 

 Peak and Pike's Peak are chief!}' of Pinus contorta, or, as it ought 

 perhaps to be more properly called, Pinus Balfouriana. Sometiuies 

 hundreds of acres of perhaps ten, twenty, or thirty years would be 

 met with, but always of the same age in one district. Of course, 

 where this species follows Pojndus tremuloide^^ as it often does 

 when the i)oi)lar has been burned off, it is easy to understand how 

 the pines may be all of one age ; but the uniformity is the same 

 whether the pines follow a burned district or not. Abies graudis 

 affords the greatest irregularity in ages; but this, so far as his 

 observations went, made no separate forests, but were mostly 

 mixed with other species, chielly with Abies Douglassii, Abies 

 Mensiesii, or Abies Eiigelmannii. The general rule was evident 

 everywhere, that only on special occasions, and these apparent!}' 

 oiten at long intervals, did a crop of young coniferous trees ai)pear. 



These facts l)eing gained, we can understand at least some of the 

 influences at work to prevent the spread of timber on the prairies 

 from the trees growing along the river banks, or on to the low 

 lauds IVom the timl)ered regions on the heights. If under the most 

 favorable conditions in the East, and on the cool slopes of moun- 

 tains, it is but oecasiomdly that the seeds find a conjunction of 

 elements favor'alile to successful growth, how much more rare must 

 these circumstances be on a dry, hot prairie? Seeds ma}' fall for 

 ao^es alons: the line of a river, and yet not a tree be found a hun- 

 drcd yards from the river line. 



lie lliouglit, also, the facts would account for what is known as 

 the timber line in the Rocky Mountains. This was not an arbi- 

 trary division, decided by mere altitude, as was populary supposed; 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



but depended on the faA'orable or nnfavorable circumstances under 

 which seeds in certain seasons found themselves. The ascent of 

 Gray's Peak by the way of the Clear Creek Canon afforded an 

 illustration. At the base of the mountain, we find Finns contorta, 

 P. ponderosa, Abies Engelmannii, and a few Abies grandis. As we 

 advance all disappear except Abies Engelmannii, but Pinus aris- 

 tata takes the place of the departed ones. Advancing higher, P. 

 aristata disappears, and only A. Engelmannii is left for the last 

 half mile before reaching the " timber line." The last series of 

 trees appear about fifty years old, even to the boundary line, and 

 then comes perhaps a half mile of Juniperus alpina, Salix arctica, 

 and other small growing things. But on examining this mass of 

 scrubbj' growth, a large quantity of Abies Engelmannii, not more 

 than a couple of feet high, about twenty years of age, and seemingly 

 never to be anj'thing more than scrubs, is found growing with it. 

 An examination of the forests at lower altitudes, however, shows 

 that Abies Engelmannii, even at a thousand feet below, made its 

 first twent}^ or thirty j-ears in a similar scrubby condition. It was 

 no uncommon thing to find specimens of tliis tree perhaps sixty 

 feet or more in height, when clothed with branches to the ground, 

 to have the early branches at the ground still remaining, and in 

 just the same condition as those aliove tlie " timber line." The 

 same thing occurs in American nurseries with some firs. Picea 

 pectinata generally remains in this semi-stunted condition for ten 

 or twenty j-ears, losing its leader annually, spreading its side 

 branches, but increasing its trunk at the ground, and its tap-root 

 in length. After that it ascends rapidly, its leading shoot seldom 

 being destroyed afterwards. He saw no reason, as Gray's Peak 

 was not one of perpetual snow, except perhaps in some of the 

 deepest ravines, why under favorable seasons for germination, 

 Abies Engelmannii might not in time advance towards the top, 

 without regard to any arbitrary " timber line." 



The facts he offered were lie thought worthy of attention by 

 those interested in the geographical distribution of plants. Most 

 forest trees seeded abundantl}' every year, and yet nature seemed to 

 have placed some check on the ultimate perfection of her own great 

 work. And indeed we could see the wisdom of this check ; for if 

 the seeds of these strong forest trees were to grow as readily as 

 the seeds of the smaller annuals, the world, in the absence of man 

 to cultivate, would have its smaller vegetation crowded out, and 

 it would be one vast forest ; and 3'et it seemed an enigma that na- 

 ture should produce such an immense amount of seed with one 

 hand, only to be destroyed b}'^ the otiier, unless we accept this 

 principle, that seed growth is onh' occasional and exceptional to 

 any great extent, and then we see how essential it is always to 

 have a large and fresh stock constantly on hand, as a seedsman 

 would say, so that advantage could be taken of the exceptional 

 conditions when thev occurred. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



MaJformed Red Clover. Mr. Thomas Meehan also pvosentcd 

 some s{)eciineiis of a malformed clover, Tri/olium p7'atetise, handed 

 to him by a fellow member, Mr. Isaac Hurk, with the request to 

 bring it to the notice of the Academy if of interest. 



The flowers, usually sessile, were in this case elevated on pedi- 

 cels about an inch long, and from these, what siiould normally be 

 the g3'ncium, was again developed into a short pedicel bearing a 

 calyx, one of the segments of which, usually little more than a 

 mere cilia, was developed into a complete leaflet. The case af- 

 forded no light on morphological law beyond what was already 

 known ; but tiie fact that the Red Clover grew in this way, had 

 not, he believed, been recorded. 



Mr. Gentry made the following remarks regarding tlie nest of 

 Tireo solitarius, Yieil. 



Audul)on,in describing the nestof Yireo solitarius, Yieil., affirms 

 it "is prettily constructed and fixed in a partially pensile manner 

 between two twigs of a low bush, on a branch running horizon- 

 tally from the main stem, and formed externally of gray lichens, 

 slightly put together, and lined with hair chiefly from the deer 

 and raccoon." My experience has been quite diflferent. Out of 

 the many nests which I have seen and examined, I cannot recall 

 a single specimen that will answer to the above description. I 

 have five nests of this species, four of wliich are perfectlv similar 

 in structure; the remaining one formed of the culms of a s^^ecies 

 of Aira, constituting an exceptional case, and the only one that 

 has ever fallen under my notice. Tliey are all shallow, loose in 

 texture, scarcely surviving the season for which they were de- 

 signed, and placed between two twigs of a cedar or a maple tree 

 at a considerable elevation from the ground, on a branch nearly 

 horizontal to the main axis. Tlioy are built entirely of clusters 

 of male flowers of Quercus jialusti-i.-<^ which, having performed 

 tiieir allotted function, don their brownish hue at the very period 

 when the}' can be utilized. 



Here is evidently' a change witiiin a moderately short period, 

 rendered necessary by external causes. This necessity may have 

 grown out of inability to procure the favorite materials, or a desire 

 for self-preservation. In the case of tiie si)ecies under conside- 

 ration, it cannot be denied that the utter inabilit}', without unne- 

 cessary phj'sical eflfort, to procure the hair of the afore-mentioned 

 animals, particularly in sections where (Jwij have been compelled 

 to retreat before the advance of man, may have been one of the 

 causes which have induced the change. 1 am satisfied, however, 

 that it has not been the leading one, but that self-preservation 

 hns operated in this case for individual and famil\' good. The 

 adaptation of the colors of the female bird to the tints of sur- 

 rounding objects, during the trying period of incubation, nnd the 

 cstablifiliment of certain resemblances to familiar exteiiial objects 

 are two of the ways in which it manifests itself. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



September 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



The following were elected members: Wm. F. Riddle, Joseph 

 Neuman, Apollos W, Harrison, J. B. Howell, De Forrest Willaid, 

 M.D., L. S. Clark, M.D., Andrew Macfarlane, A.M., C. J. Hoffman, 

 and Mrs. Louisa J. Roberts. 



Frank Guckert, of Ciudad Bolivar, Venezuela, was elected a 

 Correspondent. 



In compliance with a resolution of the Academy, Mr. Meehan 

 read the following : 



OBITUARY NOTICE OF ELIAS DURAND. 



]n an institution like ours, devoted wholly to the study of the 

 natural sciences, it is meet, when a distinguished member passes 

 away, that we pause to ask ourselves wliat science has gained by 

 his illustrious career; and, by reviewing tlie details of his useful 

 life, derive new encourageuient to press onwards in our studies. 

 Thus shall the good which a man doeth live after him ; for surely 

 of all men tlie scientist liveth not in vain. 



We are proud tliat in the history of science so many members 

 of our body hold a distinguished place. Among these great 

 names, that of our late associate, Elias Durand, will always be 

 gratefully remembered. He was elected a resident member of 

 the Academy in 1852, and his whole life has been one of con- 

 tinuous devotion to science. 



Elias Durand (Elie Magloire Durand) was born in Mayenne, 

 France, on tlie 25th of January, 1794, where his father, Andre 

 Durand, was recorder of deeds, and in whicli Elias, the j'oungest 

 of fourteen children, received his education. In 1808, he com- 

 menced a four years' study under M. Chevalier, eminent as a 

 l^liarmacien and scientist, and to whose kindly interest in his 

 success, Mr. Durand was fond of attributing his successful course 

 in life. In the fall of 1812, he arrived in Paris and attended the 

 scientific lectures of Thinard, Gay-Lussac, Lefevre, anil Ginault, 

 and a course on general literature by Andrieux. He received a 

 comn^.ission as assistant pharmacien, and after examination, was 

 couijilimented by M. Parmentier, Inspector-General of tlie Phar- 

 maceutical Department of the Army, by being placed on the head 

 of the list of ajiplicants, and soon was ordered to join the 5th 

 corps of observation on the Elbe. He presented his commission 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



to Field-Marshal Kcllernian, and joined the arm^' immediately at 

 Magdeburg. He participated in most of the battles which followed, 

 taking part especially in the bloody one at Leipsic. At the 

 battle of Hanan, he was one of about a dozen who succeeded in 

 crossing a stream, out of some hundreds who were killed or 

 wounded in the attempt, and was captured by the enemj- ; but 

 the officer in charge, in pit}' at the awful destruction which had 

 left so few, sufiered them to go free after a short detention. On 

 the downfall of Napoleon, he resigned his commission, notwith- 

 standing the opposition of his Chief, M. Lodibert. Years after- 

 wards, when this distinguished gentleman was President of the 

 Pharmaceutical Society of Paris, he remembered the former young 

 man of twenty, but now in the United States, and proposed his 

 name in a highly complimentary manner for membership in that 

 institution. Leaving the army, he entered the drug store of M. 

 Fretand, at Nantes, directed the chemical manipulations in the 

 apothecaries' garden, and lectured to the students on medical 

 botany. On the return of Napoleon he at once rejoined the 

 army, and served during the celebrated one lu;ndi'ed days, as one 

 of the National Guards. On the 15th of June, came Waterloo, 

 and on the 26th, the allies entered Paris. Durand, with his 

 strong Napoleonic tendency, was continually under surveillance, 

 to escape which he sailed for the United States, arriving at New 

 York on the 1st of July, 1816. Proceeding to Boston, Bishop 

 Chevrus, a distant relative, introduced him to the leading scientists 

 of that city, and he became superintendent of the chemical 

 laboratorj' of a Mr. Perkins. After a few months, considerations 

 of health led him into a similar i)osition with a Mr. Wesner, at 

 Broad and Race, in Philadelphia, but he found it necessarj' soon 

 after to abandon this pursuit, and devote himself to pharmacy 

 exclusively. 



After a short residence near Baltimore, he obtained a letter 

 of introduction to Dr. Troost, who at that time was engaged in 

 the manufacture of alum and suli)hate of iron, but who lived at 

 Cape Sable, twenty miles away. Mr. Durand's diary gives a 

 graphic account of this journc}', made on foot, in deep snow, through 

 a dense pine forest, in the depth of winter, and with but two 

 houses on the whole track, one of these a country inn filled with 

 pictures of murders of whites b}-^ red-skins, and other phases of 

 Indian life. lie tells of his subsequent meeting with Indians; his 

 fear of his life, but found kind treatment from them ; his taking 

 the wrong trail in the dark, and finding and stopping over night 

 at a farm-house, and of the kind treatment he received there, 

 ending in his being sent under care of a slave to Dr. Troost's the 

 next day. Notwithstanding what he had formerly been through, 

 this little circumstance seems among the most impressing events 

 of his life. He describes Dr. Troost as a gentleman of very primi- 

 tive ai)pearance, leading a sort of backwoodsman's life, but ex- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



hibitliig the most unbounded generosity and kindly feeling. He 

 could not assist him in getting employment, but lie urged him to 

 make his home with him for a while, as " he was much in need of 

 some educated person to talk with." He spent two months Avith 

 Dr. Troost, and there is little doubt but that this incident tended 

 to confirm his already decided taste for natural histor}'. By the 

 influence of Dr. Troost, he became chief clerk in the establishment 

 of Mr. Ducatel of Baltimore, whose daughter he ultimately married. 

 Mrs. Durand died in 1822; and his daughter, the only child by this 

 marriage, in 1836. 



In 1823 Mr. Ducatel retired from business, leaving it to his son 

 Jules, afterwards professor of chemistr^^ in the Baltimore Medical 

 Sclrool, and State Geologist of Maryland, and he took Mr. Durand 

 into partnership with him. At the end of the year he withdrew 

 from the partnership with the view of opening a store in Philadel- 

 phia. He went to France, returned to New York in April, 182.5, 

 and immediately after opened his store on the southwest corner of 

 Sixth and Chestnut, in Philadelphia, which ultimately became 

 one of the most distinguished pharmaceutical establishments in 

 this countrj'. His interest in his business was not mei'ely that 

 of a trader; he carried into it the same love of science which 

 endears his memory to us to-day. The first contribution to the 

 Journal of Pharmacy was from his pen ; and the catalogue of the 

 Roj'al Society of London gives a long list of valuable papers con- 

 tril)uted by him to various magazines and institutions, on matters 

 connected with this branch of science. 



To us he will ever be remembered as a botanist. During all 

 the long jeavs referred to, his devotion to this department of 

 natural history never flagged. His store was the resort of the 

 most intelligent; and botanists sat at his right hand. His purse 

 assisted many a botanical traveller; and thus it was that the collec- 

 tions of Nuttall, and many other valuable herbariums fell into his 

 hands. They did not however always come to him in this direct way. 

 He loved to tell of his being told of a lot of plants which had been 

 stowed away in a loft for many years, and which he could buy 

 cheap ; and after pa3ung little more than the price of waste paper, 

 he found to his surprise that it was the herbarium of Rafinesque, 

 which for so long a time had been the home of innumerable rats. 

 His pains-taking accuracy and industr}- had early gained him a re- 

 putation; and a wealthy 3'oung gentleman of Ohio, determining to 

 study botan^', and anxious to purchase a herbarium to begin with, 

 was referred to Mr. Durand, who sold his to him at ten cents a 

 species, amounting to about $1000, which will give some idea of 

 the extent of his labors at that time. His own distant collections 

 were not numerous, but in 1837 he made an extended exploration 

 of the Dismal Sw^amp in Virginia, and in 18(52 another through 

 the mountains of Pennsylvania. Shorter excursions with Count 

 Survilliers, Joseph Buonaparte, and other eminent scientiiic men 

 were numerous. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



In 1852 lie retired from business in order to devote the remain- 

 der of liis life to botanical science. His first great work was to 

 add to the berbarium of our xicademy desiderata which his own 

 could supply. In this way we came into possession of a large 

 number of Nuttall's plants, besides numerous others. Indeed, the 

 North American Herbarium of the Academy, as it now stands, is 

 mainly' the work of Mr. Durand. "While in Europe in 1800 he found 

 the herbarium of the Garden of Plants at Paris deficient in North 

 American species, and on his return devoted much of his time to 

 prepai'ing his collection for that institution. lie took the major 

 part there in 1868, and left by his will the balance to it, making 

 in all about 15,000 species, in which institution they will be pre- 

 served separately as the Herbier Durand. He presented his bo- 

 tanical lil)rary to the Academy of Natural Sciences, and his lil)rai'y 

 of chemical and pharmaceutical works, together with a herbarium 

 of medical plants, to the College of Pharmacy. 



The first great contribution to botanical literature after his re- 

 tirement from business in 1852 was the " Plants^ PraUenianse Cali- 

 fornicfie,^'' published in the Journal of the Academy- in 1855-58, 

 and about the same time in the same volume " Planlse. Knneanee 

 Gncnlandicse,^^ being the plants of Kane's two voyages to the arctic 

 regions; and also during the same i)eriod, in connection with Dr. 

 Hilgard,in the same journal, the " Plantce Heermnnnianae,^' being 

 the collections of Dr. Ileermaun, the naturalist attached to Lieut. 

 "Williamson's survey of the Pacific Railroad. In 18G0 the botany 

 of the Salt Lake of Utah, in Am. Philos. Transactions. In 18()1 

 he gave in the Proceedings of the Academy an account of the Arctic 

 })lants of Hayes's expedition; and in 18G2 an article in the Bulletin 

 of the Paris Acclimatization Society on the vines and wines of the 

 L^nited States, which attracted much attention in Europe. He is 

 also the author of a memoir of Andre Michaux, and also of his 

 friend Nuttall, which, from his intimac}' with this great botanist, 

 he was enabled to make the best one written. 



For two years past age seemed to tell on him rapidly, and his 

 regular attendance on his api)oinled and much loved duties in the 

 Academy was broken up. During the past year his brain gradually 

 softened, until, on the 14th of August, 1873, he peacefully i)assed 

 away, in the 10th year of his age, leaving an only son by a second 

 marriage, who has already distinguished himself in one branch of 

 his father's favorite studies; and a memory which we, his asso- 

 ciates in this Academy, will long, gratefully, and fondly cherish. 



From such a life how nnich the woild may learn! Here is a 

 young man 8urroun<led by difficulties, but wdio was never appalled 

 or tuined aside from the zealous pursuit of knowledge. It did 

 not inteifere with his business success, as it is a popular fallacy 

 such studies tend to do. but it aided him to the highest eminence 

 in his profession. It brought him into contact with many kindred 

 8}irits in this and similar institutions, which in turn fanned his 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPFIIA. 359 



enthusiasm, and addeci to the great pleasure he took in life. His 

 benevolent spirit overflowed wherever the wants of man were to 

 be relieved ; and in the added facts to science, he knew, as we all 

 know, that he was bequeathing a legacy to posterity which would 

 benefit it for all time to come. 



On report of the committee the following paper was ordered 

 to be published : 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON A NEW AMERICAN SPECIES OF PLEURONECTOID {GLYPTOCEPHALUS 



ACADIANUS). 



BY THEODORE GILL, M.D. 



In the " Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia" for 1864 (pp. 214-224), was published a "Synopsis 

 of the Pleuronectoids of the eastern coast of North America," in 

 which two generic t3'pes, either entirely new {Euchalarodus) or 

 new to the coast ( Githarichthyii)^ were made known. The present 

 article may be regarded as supplementary to that. 



The only known specimen of the new type was obtained from 

 a pond at Eastport, Maine, during the month of August, by an 

 attache (Di'. Edward Palmer) of the Commissioner of Fisheries 

 (Prof. Baird), and, notwithstanding the assiduous attentions of 

 the commissioner and his staff, no other specimens were found; it 

 must, therefore, be actually a very rare fish, or (what is more 

 probable in such cases) peculiar in its habitat, and rarely coming 

 within the range of operations of the fisherman. 



An attentive examination and comparison of this species with 

 the Glyptocephalus cynoglossus, of Europe, indicate that it is 

 congeneric with that species and with the Platessa elongata of 

 Yarrell, but more nearly allied to the latter. As the genus is now 

 for the first time introduced into our fauna, a description of the 

 characters common to all the species (generic), as well as distinc- 

 tive of the new form (specific), is given. 



Genus GLYPTOCEPHALUS, Gottsohe. 

 Synonymy. 

 Olyptocephalus, Gottsohe, Arcliiv fiir Nat. 1835, i. p. 156; Blkr., Compt. 

 Rend. Acad. Sci., Amsterdam, xiii., 1SG2. 



Body oblong fusiform, with the caudal peduncle abbreviated. 

 Scales minute, oval, cycloid on the e3'ed as well as blind side, 

 and regularl}' imbricated. 



Lateral line straight, with its scales covered on both sides by 

 the adjoining ones. 



Head small, ovate, the profile being slightly decurved, and with 

 the rostral area rhomboid; covered with minute imbricated scales 

 on the cheeks and opercular bones ; on the blind side exhibiting 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



fovere or pits in the cranium and preoperculum ; orbital ridge 

 prominent, narrow, and curved upwards towards tlie lateral line 

 (with no bony tubercles). 



Eyes moderate, approximated, the upper (in typical species) 

 somewhat further back than the lower, mostly in the anterior third 

 of head. 



Nostrils of the ej^ed side parallel with the axis of the body ; 

 the posterior patulous, and above the supraorbital crest ; the an- 

 terior tubular, and near tiie border of the snout; those of the 

 blind side in an oblique row ; the posterior patulous ; the " ante- 

 rior" tubular. 



3Ioufh very small, with the cleft very oblique, deeper and less 

 oblique (the supramaxillary being longer) on the blind side. 

 Lower jaw scarcely prominent, with a declining obtusely angular 

 (not tuberculated) chin. 



Lips moderate and simple, free all around. 



Tongue small and scarcely free. 



Teeth fixed, uniserial, on the blind side approximated and with 

 compressed squarish crowns ; on the eyed side (1) similar or (2) 

 more distant and obtusely conic. (Palate unarmed.) 



Branchial apertures closed above the opercula, with the mem- 

 brane free below. 



Branchiostegal rays seven. 



Dorsal fin with its rays simple, in large number (100-120); with 

 its origin above the middle of the upper orbit, with the foremost 

 and hindmost rays (when at rest) converging, and the rest erect. 



Anal fin with its rays simple, in large number (90-105), with 

 its foremost and hindmost rays converging, but the rest erect; 

 preceded in front by a well-defined spur-like spine curved for- 

 wards. 



Caudal fin convex or angulated behind. 



Pectoral fins small, obliquely rounded behind, and with branched 

 rays. 



Ventral fin subbrachial, normally -developed. 



Type^ Pleuronectes cynoglossus, Linn. 



This genus is well distinguished by the elongated and com- 

 pressed body covered by cycloid scales, the straight lateral line, 

 the small head with its well-defined foveje (showing through the 

 scaly skin) of the cranial and preopercular regions, the numerous 

 dorsal and anal rays, and the preanal spur-like spine. Three 

 24 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



species seem now to be referable to the genus: (1) the typical 

 species {G. cynoglossus = Pleuronectes cynoglossiis, Linn); (2) a 

 rare British form (G. elongatiis = Platessa elongata, Yarrell), and 

 (3) an luulescribed species peculiar to the Acodian province of 

 naturalists (G. acadianus. Gill). These appear to represent two 

 sections of the genus; the first species one, and the second and 

 third another. 



GLYPTOCEPHALUS ACADIANUS, Gill. 



The height of the body enters about 2| times in the length, ex- 

 clusive of the caudal (3^ in the extreme length) ; the height of 

 the caudal peduncle is little more than 1^ of its length. The 

 head enters 5^ times in the length. 



The teeth are decidedl}' unlike on the respective sides, those of 

 the blind side being close set, with incisorial edges, about 17 in 

 the upper jaw, and 20 in tlie lower ; those of the eye side distant, 

 obtusely conic, 6 in the upper and 7 in the lower jaw. The greatest 

 height of the dorsal equals about half the length of the head, as 

 does also that of the anal. The caudal fin enters about 5^ times 

 in the extretne length. The pectoral fin (of the dark side) is con- 

 siderably more than half tlie head's length, and the ventral coii- 

 siderabl}' less than half; the base of the ventral is under that of 

 the pectoral (but a little further advanced). 



D. 110, A. 100. 



The color is rufous-brown, immaculate. 



The single specimen, from which the above description was 

 taken, was apparently not full grown, and, as already remarked, 

 was obtained from a net at Eastport, Maine. 



The species is evidently congeneric with, and closelj' related 

 to, the G. elongaius (Flalestio elongata), of which an incorrect 

 figure is given in Yarrell's work, and (in some respects) a more 

 accurate one in Couch's History of British Fishes; it is, however, 

 less elongated and the head larger. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



October 7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three members present. 



Laxo of Seed Germination in Swamp Plants Referring to a few 



brief remarks of Mr. Anhrey H. Smith, on a former occasion, in 

 regard to the naturalization of Taxodium dldichum on compara- 

 tively dry ground in tlie Northern States, Mi-. Thomas Meehan 

 said that it was an error to suppose that nature placed trees in 

 places the best suited to their growth. Almost all of our swamp 

 trees grew much better when they could get into dryer places, if 

 in ordinar}' good land. He referred among others to Magnolia 

 glauca, Acer rubrum, Celtis occidentalis, Ilex opaca, Cupressus 

 cliama^cyparis, Cepbalanthus occidentalis, Salix babylonica, espe- 

 cially as, within his own repeated observations, growing better out 

 of swamps than in them. Why it was that i\\ey grew in swamps 

 ^as no enigma to those in the habit of raising forest trees from 

 seed. It was found that seeds of these trees would only germinate 

 in damp places, and, of course, in a state of nature the tree had 

 to remain in the place where the seed germinated. 



He thought the principle taught that plants required water to 

 grow well was true only in so far as a humid condition of the soil 

 was concerned. Plants, as a general thing, though they were of the 

 class known especially as water plants, preferred to grow out of the 

 water, except in those which grew almost entirely beneath the sur- 

 face. He had found such plants as Polygonum amphibium and 

 some of the water-loving Ranunculi, grow much more luxuriously 

 in the terrestrial than in the aquatic state. As was well known, 

 the Taxodium distichnm in the southern swamps sent up " knees" 

 from various points as the roots extended, often as large as old- 

 fashioned bee-hives, and several feet above the surface. He had 

 observed that not only were the cypress trees at least as large and 

 luxuriant when growing in good, rather dry ground ; but the ten- 

 dency to throw up these knees was in a measure lost. They were 

 generally small, but often wholly wanting. With the general facts 

 before us of the antipathy of swamp plants to their watery fate, 

 he thought one might be safe in concluding that these root excres- 

 cences were the result of an effort of the plant to counteract the 

 law which, against its own desires, to speak metaphorically, had 

 found itself obliged by the necessities of its law of seed germina- 

 tion to be a denizen of a swamp. 



Mr. Aubrey H. Smith said : In connection with the observations 

 of Mr. Meehan, I think it worth recording that a few years ago I 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



collected some plants of Talinum teretifolium Pursh, on the ser- 

 pentine rocks of Chester County, near Westchester, and transferred 

 them to the small garden in the rear of my house in this city. 

 The place chosen for them was close to the hydrant, wliere the 

 very rich soil was constantl}' in a humid condition. Tlie plants 

 throve greatly', producing flowers and perfect fruit in abundance, 

 and extending their tuber-like roots on all sides. In the early 

 spring, observing these roots half-exposed on the surfoce of the 

 ground, I pressed them down with my finger and covered them 

 with earth. The plants continued to thrive and multiply in this 

 situation for several years, forming a thick mat of considerai)le 

 extent, with no further care than the occasional covering of their 

 roots in the spring. Subsequently the}^ were superseded b}'^ Hel- 

 onias bullata^ for which their site was the best in my possession. 

 This, however, bloomed but feebly and died in the early heat of 

 the next summer. 



When we consider that Talinum teretifolium grows only on 

 dry rocks and, in Pennsylvania, is confined to the ledges and fis- 

 sures of the serpentine, seeking, as it were by preference, tlie 

 jjoorest and dryest soils, it affords a striking illustration of the 

 truth of Mr. Meehan's remark that nature does not always put 

 plants in places most suitable to their growth. Wiiat condition 

 essential to the perpetuation of this plant exists in the arid ser- 

 pentine, I am not able to state. It may concern the germination 

 of its seed or the protection of its fleshy roots. It certainly does 

 not govern its nutrition and fructification. 



October 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent\'-seven members pi'esent. 



On Distoma hepaticum. Prof Leidy stated that he had received 

 a letter from Prof Gross, inclosing one from Dr. J. G. Kerr, of 

 Canton, China, asking information in regard to a worm accompany- 

 ing the letter. Dr. Kerr observes that the worm was vomited by 

 a Chinese bo}', aged fifteen years, and was brought to him an hour 

 after its expulsion, when it was still alive. It had the appearance 

 of a leech, was red in color, about an inch and a half long and 

 three-fourths of an inch where widest. Dr. Kerr also states that 

 a girl, of four j^ears, of English parents, living in Canton, passed 

 from the bowels at one time nine of these worms. With these 

 exceptions. Dr. Kerr had not met with any one who had ever seen 

 or heard of anvthing of the kind. 



Prof. Leidy exhibited the specimen and expressed the opinion 

 that the worm was a Liver-fluke. Dixtoma hepaticum^ a rare para- 

 site in the human subject, though common enough in cattle, espe- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 365 



cially sheep, in whicli it caused the disease called "rot." The 

 worm exhibits some ditlerences from D. hepaticum as usuall}' de- 

 scribed, but perhaps not sufficient to characterize it as a distinct 

 species. The specimen is preserved in strong alcohol, which no doubt 

 has much contracted and reduced it in size, but it is yet rather 

 larger than the size assigned to D. hepaticum. It is perfectly 

 smooth throughout, and exhibits no trace of roughness to the in- 

 tegument. It is ovate-lanceolate in form, and gradually widens 

 from the anterior to the posterior rounded extremity. The ventral 

 acetabulum is twice the size of the mouth, and is situated about 

 its own diameter behind it. The genital orifice with the exserted 

 spiral penis is placed just in advance of the ventral acetabulum. 

 The measurements of the worm in its present condition are as 

 follows: Length H lines, width at the posterior third 7 lines, 

 thickness near centre 1 line, diameter of mouth fths of a line, 

 diameter of acetabulum |ths of a line. 



Prof. Leidy further remarked that Dr. Keyser, of this city, the 

 evening previously had brought to him for examination a worm, 

 which was stated to have been removed from the cavity of the nose 

 of a patient. He recognized the worm as a rat-tail lava, appa- 

 rently of the genus Erisfalis, and inquired of those members in- 

 terested in entomology^ if they had ever known this insect to be 

 found as a parasite in the human body. Both Drs. LeConte and 

 Horn said that they had never heard of this genus being parasitic. 



Analysis of Chromite from Monterey County., California. By 

 E. Goldsmith No analysis of chromite from this locality, so far 

 as I am aware, has yet been published. Mine was undertaken 

 with the view to ascertain what particular relation it might have 

 to Trautwinite. As the last-named mineral is found on it, I pre- 

 sumed that the latter might have originated from the former. A 

 chemical analysis only could decide the question. The process 

 pursued was in all respects the same as that followed in mj' pre- 

 vious investigation of Trautwinite; not omitting great care in 

 the preliminary mechanical separation of the two species from 

 each other. The following table gives the result of both analyses 

 and a comparison of the two minerals, together with the ditfer- 

 ences : 



S. 



The formation of Trautwinite from chromite may be conceived 

 to have taken place in accordance with the neptunian hypothesis, 

 by the combination of silica and lime with the chromite, thus pro- 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ducing the new compound ; since both the oxides dissolve in water. 

 Wiien under these circumstances none of tlie constituents of the 

 older mineral separates, it is self-evident tliat tliey will all present 

 themselves in less quantit3^ in the newly formed combination than 

 in that from which it was derived. If a silicate of lime had simph^ 

 been mixed with tiie Trautwinite, hydrofhloric acid would have 

 affected it. But the acids have no action upon it; hence it is 

 very probable that the silica and lime combined with the chromite 

 form the mineral which we call Trautwinite. 



The death of Theodoi:e E. Moss was announced. 



October 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Stihiaferrile^ a ew; 3Iineral from Santa Clara County^ Cali- 

 fornia. By E. Goldsmith. The mineral occurs on Stibnite, and 

 enters the rock on both sides. The Stibnite between the two 

 la^-ers of the new mineral is H inch thick; and this appears to 

 be the thickness of the vein at the spot whence the specimen was 

 taken. The layers of the Stibiaferrife vary in thickness from a 

 thin coating to about a quarter of an inch. 



The most of it is amorphous. On examining a number of spe- 

 cimens, I observed some snuiU cavities containing, I believe, the 

 same substance in crystals. The crystals, when ol)served under a 

 power of a 5 lens, have the habitus of ortho-rhombic prisms. 

 They are generally attached by one end, but a few extend to the 

 other side of the cavity. The termination is the basal plane ; I 

 could not find a crystal having a finite pyramid ; the infinite 

 pyramids were those of the first and second order. The measure- 

 ment of one of the crystals, which had a favorable position for 

 observation, was performed with a goniometer (Leeson's) belong- 

 ing to Mr. Clarence S. Bement. Although I made several efforts 

 to get the exact angles of the crj'stals, yet I wish it to be under- 

 stood that the values obtained are only approximate. 



Tiie following are tiie indices or symbols of the observed forms 

 according to the three authors : 



Miller . 



Naumann . 

 Dana . 



100.001 



100.010 



001.010 



110.110" 



110.110' 



110,010 



110,001 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 36T 



The fracture is uneven conchoidal. Opaque in the amorphous, 

 subtranslucent when crystallized. 



The lustre is slightl}' resinous. 



Tlie color of the crystallized mineral is faint j'ellow. 



The amor|)hous is more 3'ellow, and, on some parts, it is even 

 brownish-^-ellow. 



The streak is dull 3'ellow. The powder of the mineral in a 

 thick layer on a white surface is straw-3'ello\v. 



The cohesion is not strong ; it yields easil}^ to the point of the 

 knife, producing angular pieces, brittle. 



The hardness is equal to fluorite, or 4. 



Specific gravity = 3.598. 



The mineral has no effect on the magnetic needle. 



Pyrochemical test: In the glass tube closed on one end it affords 

 water and a white sublimate. On charcoal, metallic globules and 

 a white incrustation, which deposited far from the test, and on 

 stopping the fire, rising fumes. Borax affords, in the oxidizing 

 and in the reducing flames, beads, Avhich are yellow while hot and 

 colorless after cooling. 



In nitric acid the substance is not soluble. H^'drochloric acid 

 dissolves it, except quartz, which is an impurity. 



Caustic potassa decomposes the mineral, changing the 3'ellow 

 powder apparently into red. The liquor, however, then contained 

 antimoniate of potassa, which, when poured into a mixture of 

 iodide of potassium and h3'drochloric acid, liberated iodine. The 

 red powder I ascertained to be sesquioxide of iron. 



The quantity of the water I determined by the loss on heating 

 the substance to a low red heat. 



For the quantitative determination of the antimonic acid I 

 fused the substance with carbonate of soda and sulphur; extraeted 

 the black mass with water, washed, precipitated the sulphuretted 

 antimon3' with h3-drochloric acid, and, after drying and weighing 

 tlie mixture of sulphuret of antimony and sidpliur, I analyzed an 

 aliquot part of it, according to Bunsen's process. (It appears 

 that the adopted process chosen for the determination of the anti- 

 mon3' is one of the best known ; yet the loss is always greater than 

 it ought to be for close work. It would be a good gift if anybod3' 

 could present us with a process for the determination of anti- 

 mony in which the weighing of the sulphuret of antimony and 

 sulphur on a dried paper filter could be avoided.) Tiie iron antl 

 the quartz were determined in the usual wa3'. 



Tlie result of the analysis was 



Bb 43.96 per cent. 



Ve 31.85 " 



H 15.26 " 



Quartz 8.84 " 



Loss . . . , . . 1.09 " 



100.00 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



After cleducting the quartz and calculating the remainder to 

 percentage, I obtain for the pure substance : 



Bb . . . 47.09 per cent. Oxygen . . .11.77 

 Pe , . . 3r).3fi " "... lO.GO 



S . . . 1G.94 " "... ir,.05 



The equivalent oxygen ratio of b : Po : II is as 1.1 : 1 : 1.4, or 

 nearly as 1 : 1 : H, for which I propose the formula 2(Bb + Ve) -f 311. 



The mineral described is therefore a hydrous antimoniate of 

 iron. 



In regard to the Stibnite, from which the Stihiaferrite was pro- 

 bably derived, I have to state a few facts. I made an analysis of 

 it in order to ascertain wlietlier it contained an}' antimonic acid, 

 or a large amount of iron in any form, but both questions were 

 answered in the negative. The principal difference in the compo- 

 sition of the Stibnite is the large amount of silica with which it 

 is intimately mixed, liesides a little arsenic and lead, probably 

 present as sulphurets. The quantitative determination of the 

 latter two I omitted. In all, I ascertained that the antimon}^ Avas 



fully saturated with sulphur to form the tersulphuret of antimony. 



Ill 



(Sb). The following is the result of my analysis: 



Sb 41.21 per cent. 



S 14.8o " 



Pe 02 



Si 43.34 



(1 



99.42 " 



T have also a specimen of the rock in which the A^ein of the 

 Stibnite occurs, and into which the Stibiafen'ite ramifies. The 

 l)urest part is white, some is grajisb and yellow, caused by the 

 Slibiaferrite. The fracture is rough, uneven, on some parts angu- 

 lar. I observed cracks in all directions, but, when closely examined 

 with tiie lens, I noticed that they are filled with the Stihiaferrite. 



The rock is perfectly dull, and so is the streak. 



The hardness varies between 3 and 5. 



The sjiecific gravity I found to be = 2.7529. 



Pyrochemical test : On charcoal alone no change. With carb. 

 soda, evolution of carbonic acid gas takes place; and the sub- 

 stance dissolves in the soda, forming a dirty green glass. 



In the glass tube closed on one end it affords water and dark- 

 ness. 



Hydrochloric acid has but little effect on it ; the acid solution 

 contained but a small amount of Sb and Fe. Hydrofluoric acid 

 dissolves it readily on warming, leaving but a little residue after 

 evaporating the liquor. Caustic potassa dissolves it nearl}'- all, 

 the residue left was very little. The qualitative analysis of a very 

 white piece of this rock furnished the result that the principal 

 substance is amorphous silica, mixed with a little of the oxides of 

 antimony, lead, and iron. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3G9 



A quantitative Bausch analysis of this rock I did not undertake, 

 because every specimen has probably a different composition, due 

 to the unequal distribution of the S'fibiaferrite. 



As I liave not seen the rock in situ, I cannot say whether there 

 occurs more antimony in tlie form of Stibiaferrite or as Stibnite ; 

 at any rate, it is worth while for the managers of the mine to 

 make this inquiry' and let us knoAv. 



The Stibnite had on one spot a cavity containing about four 

 crystals of very small size. Viewed under the microscope one 

 white crystal had the form of Yalentinite, as figure 119 in Dana's 

 Desc. Min., which crystal was attached to a crystal of Stibnite, 

 showing the gradual change of the latter into the former. Another 

 crystal appeared to be a perfect cube, which may be Senarmontite. 



I first saw the specimens in the collection of John C. Traut- 

 wine, C. E. This gentleman called m3'- attention to the peculiar 

 j-ellow mineral on the Stibnite, which he presumed to be new ; the 

 presumption is correct so far as my investigation goes, and I here- 

 with return thanks for the specimens received. 



October 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-two members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Descrip- 

 tions of Mexican Ichneumonidae." By C. T., Cresson. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Jos. C. Wright 

 and Dr. G. T. Barker. 



Charles V. Rilej', of St. Louis, Mo., was elected a Correspon- 

 dent. 



November 4. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 



November 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan desired to correct an error made in his 

 remarks on the Exceptional Conditions of Forest-seed Germina- 

 tion, to which Mr. Sereno Watson liad kindly called his attention. 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Mr. Watson was said to have named tlie Rocky Mountain oalv 

 QnP7'rus polj/morphn. Mr. W. had simply adopted the earliest 

 name for it, Q. undulala Torr. ; also the reference of Finns con- 

 torta to P. Balfonriana was wrong. It should be P. aristata, 

 which name now gives place to the prior P. Balfouriana. 



November 18. 



Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-two members present. 



The following papei's were presented for publication : 



^ On the Homologies and Origin of the Types of Molar Teeth 



in Mammalia Educabilia." By E. D. Cope. "Contribution to 



the Ichthyology of Alaska." By E. D. Cope. 



Prof, Cope remarked that he had observed in the Rock^'- Moun- 

 tain region circles of stones arranged by human hands, in countries 

 not now inhabited b}' the Indians. One of these is in South-wes- 

 tern Wyoming near South Bitter Creek, inside the horseshoe of 

 the Mammotli Buttes. Tiie locality is a very barren one, being a 

 sage-brush plain of alkaline debris from the bad lands of the 

 Bridger Formation. It is nine miles from the nearest spring, 

 which is of indifferent quality, and being in a region where game 

 is very scarce, could hardly be regarded as a camping-ground. 

 The circle consists of three uninterrupted concentric rings close 

 tooether. the hole having a diameter of about fifteen feet. The 

 stones are of moderate size, composed of a dark silex, and evi- 

 dently- .derived from the drift material brought down from the 

 Uinta Mountains, which is found on the summits of the bad-land 

 mesas. Five or six miles from this place was found a flint factory 

 with numerous implements and cores. 



Two other circles were observed, in Colorado, about one hun- 

 dred miles east of Long's Peak, and about five miles from a spring 

 in a well grassed country. They are probably similar in character 

 to those described by Mr. lierthoud in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy (1872-46), as having been seen by him on Crow Creek, 

 Col. The circles are formed of a single row of stones each, are 

 situated close together, and are partially overgrown with grass. 

 The}^ lie in low ground behind a line of flat-topped bluft's, and 

 immediately opposite to a narrow gap or opening between two of 

 them. No implements were found, and he could form no opinion 

 as to their age. The locality is unsuitable for a camp, in conse- 

 quence of the remoteness of wood and water. The country is not 

 inhabited by Indians, the nearest, a temporary camp, for travelling 

 Cheyennes, Sioux, etc., being forty miles distant. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



Prof. Cope explained the scope of the paj^er read by him as 

 follows : The types of molar teeth are considered to be four, viz., 

 tlie simple conic or truncate (Haplodont) ; the sides of the crown 

 vertically plicate (Ptychodont) ; the apex of the crown tubercnlate 

 (Bunodont) ; or plicate (Lophodont). The Bunodonts were re- 

 garded as either with opposite or alternate, or few or many 

 tubercles. The Lophodonts were considered in respect to their 

 superior and inferior teeth separately, and are divided into ani- 

 sognathous, having the maxillary teeth developed more exten- 

 sively than the mandibular, and isognathous, where the develop- 

 ment of the molars in the two jaws is identical. With respect to 

 the structure of the upper molars they are found to represent 

 opposite and alternate tubercles, and are hence divided into 

 Antiodont and Amoebodont series. To the former belong the 

 Seleuodont (Ruminant), Tcvpirodont (Tapir), and Trichecodont 

 (Elephant) types ; to the latter, the Falseolheridonf, Symborodont, 

 Bafhjnodonf, and Loxolophodont types. The mandibular teeth are 

 in like manner either antiodont or amrebodont. Of the former 

 kind are Selenodonts, Hyrurodonts (Kiiinoceros), and Tricheco- 

 doiits (Tapir, Elephant, .Manatee, etc.) ; of the latter, Symborodont 

 (Anchitiierinn, PaUeotherium, Palasosyops), Hippodonfii (Equns), 

 and Loxolophodont (Bathmodon, Uobasileus) types belong. The 

 BumincDifia are biserial in the essential constitution of the crests 

 of the upper molars ; the Proboscidians (including Bathmodon and 

 Uobaf<ilens) uniserial, that is, both series of tul)ercles iiniting to 

 form a simple pattern, while the Perissodactyles are intermediate 

 in this respect, with the exception of the true horse, which is 

 Selenodont above. 



The genetic relations of the Lophodont teeth are believed to be 

 to corresponding t^'pes of the Bunodonts, and connecting series 

 from the typical forms of the latter to corresponding genera of the 

 former are shown to exist in most cases, rendering the probability 

 of descent very strong. It results that Bunodonts and Lopho- 

 donts form " homologous groups," and are tlierefore related geneti- 

 cally, as had been pointed out by the writer some years ago. The 

 mandibular dental characters of the Eocene genera Aclisenodon 

 and Ilyopsodus are shown to conform to the antiodont and ama^bo- 

 dont types of the bunodont pattern respectively. 



The types of extremital structure have nearlj' similar relations, 

 but are much further reaching in application, each of the divisions 

 Artiodaciyla, Proboscidia, and Fe7-i.st^odactyla embracing both Bu- 

 nodonts and Lopliodonts. The probable or theoretical ancestral 

 types of Bafhmodon and LJobasileus are suggested, as well as tiiat 

 of the whole of the Mammalia Educabilia, or Gyrencephala, in- 

 cluding man. This is necessarily a pentadactyle plantigrade bu- 

 nodont, probably isognathous, and with cerebral convolutions 

 much reduced. 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



November 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " Description of seven new species of Unionidffi of the United 

 States." B}^ Isaac Lea. 



The Committees to which were referred the following papers : 

 " On the Homologies and Origin of the types of Molar Teeth in 

 Mammalia Educabilia," b}'^ Edward D. Cope, and " Contributions 

 to the Ichthyology of Alaska," by Edward D. Cope, reported in 

 favor of their publication in the Journal. 



The death of Frank Guckert, Correspondent of the Academy, 

 was announced. 



Disposition of the Flexor perforans^ Flexor longus hallucis^ and 

 Flexor accessorius in Paradoxurus miisanga Gra3\ Dr. H. C. 

 Chapman made the following remarks : 



I have pleasure in calling the attention of the members of the 

 Academy to the arrangement of the Flexor 

 longus hallucis and Flexor accessorius in the 

 Musanga. For the opportunity of dissecting 

 the animal I am indebted to the Directors of 

 the Zoological Garden. Usually in pentadac- 

 tyle animals there is found a muscle, the Flexor 

 longus hallucis, which, rising from the fibula, 

 passes down to the sole of the foot, and after 

 giving a slip to the Flexor perforans is inserted 

 into the hallux. In man and some other ani- 

 mals, there also exists a muscle, the Flexor 

 accessorius, which, rising from the calcanouni, 

 is inserted into the conjoined tendon of the 

 Flexor perforans and Flexor longus hallucis. 

 The names of tliese muscles indicate their func- 

 tion. In the Musanga, however, the muscle /^, 

 which is homologous with the Flexor longus 

 hallucis of man, etc., simply fuses witli tiie ton- 

 don of the Flexor perforans. A., wiiile the Flexor 

 accessorius, C, after giving off muscular slips to 

 the Flexor brevis digitorum, terminates in a tendon which is in- 

 serted into the hallux. The Flexor accessorius acts, therefore, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



the part of the Flexor longus hallucis, while the latter muscle is 

 functionall}' only a part of the Flexor perforans. The Flexor ac- 

 cessorius also draws the hallux towards the foot. The F. acces- 

 sorius, C, in the figure is slightly drawn up. 



Dr. T. R. Wolf was elected a member, and Prof. S. E. Planchon, 

 of Montpellier, France, was elected a correspondent. 



On report of the Committee, the following paper was ordered to 

 be published. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTIONS OF MEXICAN ICHNEUMONIDJS. 

 BY E. T. CRESSON. 



(Couliaued from page 176.) 



Genus OPHION, Fabr. 



1. Ophion mexicanus, n. sp. 



9. Large; luteous j-ellow, sliining, clothed with a veiy short 

 pale pubescence; head pale, mandibles and palpi tinged with ful- 

 vous, tips of mandibles dusk}"^; e3'es large, pale ; ocelli ver}^ pro- 

 minent, whitish; antennae as long as body, dark fuscous; thorax 

 opaque ; mesothorax flattened, wath three subobsolete longitudinal 

 fulvous stripes ; scutellum yellow ; metathorax obliquely flattened 

 posteriorly with coarse arcuated and oblique stria?, and a trans- 

 verse sinuate carina near base; tegulffi pale; wings hyaline, ner- 

 vures fulvous, inner radial wing nerve incrassate towards the 

 stigma and recurved, membranaceous spots in first submarginal 

 cell hyaline, consisting of a cuneiform spot and beneath it a 

 narrow curved line, broadly dilated towards apex of wing ; legs 

 slender, femora darker in color than the remainder; abdomen 

 tinged with brown, first segment slender, slightly and graduall}^ 

 dilated at apex. Length 1 inch. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 94.) 



2. Ophion thoracicus. 



Ophion Ihoracicus, Cress., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila., iv. p. 55. 



Cordova. 



3. Ophion flavus. 



Opltio7ifl(t'cuf, Fabr. Ent. Syst., ii. p. 179. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 12T.) In two specimens the apex 

 of abdomen is brown. 



4. Ophion atriventris, n. sp. 



9. Large, robust, black; eyes very large, occupying the entire 

 side of the head, the ocelli very large and prominent ; head, scape 

 of antenna^, thorax, tegulne, four anterior legs, and posterior coxfe 

 and trochanters, hone^'-yellow ; spot covering ocelli, tips of anterior 

 tarsi and whole of middle pair blackish ; mesothorax smooth, tri- 

 lobate ; scutellum subconvex ; metathorax somewhat rounded 

 behind, very coarsely reticulated ; wings hyaline, the costa, inter- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



rupted b}' the first marginal cell which is clearly hyaline, broadly 

 dark fuliginous; inner radial nerve nearl}- straight, very i-lightly 

 curved near costa, first submarginal cell without membranaceous 

 spots ; abdomen robust, entirely black, with a bluish reflection, 

 first segment broadly and rather suddenly dilated at apex. Length 

 16 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 64.) A very robust and distinct 

 species. 



Genus NOTOTRACHYS, Marshall. 



Nototrachys fuscatus. 



2'rachyiiotusfuscatus, Cress., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iv. p. 50. 



Orizaba, Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 138.) 



Genus EXOCHILIJM, Wesm. 



Exochilum mundum. 



Ophion iiiundus^ Say, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., i. p. 228. 



Cordova. 



Genus THYREODON, Brulle. 



1. Thyreodon niger, n. sp. 



% 9. Entirely black, shining, more slender in form than morio^ 

 Fabr. ; antennteof 9 entirely black, that of S more or less yellowish 

 beneath ; impressed lines of mesothorax longitudinally roughened ; 

 pleura polished ; metathorax oi)aque, closely reticulated, clothed 

 with very short, dense black pubescence, posterior face broad and 

 flat, the flanks protuberant ; scutellum deeply excavated at base ; 

 wings black, with a brassy gloss ; legs shining, tibije, tarsi, and 

 abdomen with brownish sericeous pile ; first segment of abdomen 

 slender, slightly dilated at apex, second segment with a broad 

 shallow groove on each side. Length 13i lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 65.) Much like morio Fabr., but 

 more slender, and distinguished at once by the black antennae. 



2. Thyreodon maculipennis, n. sp. 



1, 9 . Entirely black, shining, with a more or less distinct bluish 



reflection; antennae ; wings violaceous black, the 



anterior pair with a large subquadrate hyaline spot, covering most 

 of the first submarginal and first discoidal cells; metathorax 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



deeplj^ sulcate behind, and obliquely striated ; impressed lines of 

 mesothorax not roughened ; otherwise the form and sculpture are 

 similar to niger. Length 12 lines. 



Cordova ; Orizaba, Easily recognized by the black violaceous 

 anterior wings having each a large hj'aline median spot. 



3. Thyreodon laticinctus, n. sp. 



9. Black, form and sculpture as in niger; wings lilack, with a 

 very strong brassy gloss; abdomen polished, the third and basal 

 half of fourth segments lemon-yellow. Length one inch. 



Orizaba. A very conspicuous species. 



4. Thyreodon ornatipennis, n. sp. 



9. Brownish-ferruginous, metathorax darker; eyes ovate, not 

 unusually large, ocelli small ; antennse fulvous, dark at base ; thorax 

 very densely and finely sculptured ; middle of mesothorax longi- 

 tudinally furrowed ; scutellum deeply excavated at base, with 

 lateral carina ver}'- prominent ; metathorax flattened on its posterior 

 face, the apex deeply excavated ; wings dark fuliginous, the middle 

 of both pairs with a large yellow mark; legs and abdomen light- 

 brown, tips of tarsi and base of second abdominal segment black, 

 sides of segments 2, 3, 4, 5, stained with fuscous. Length 17^ 

 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 63.) 



Genus ANOMALON, Jur. 



1. Anomalon mexicanum, n. sp. 



9. Large; lemon-3'ellow; headbuccate; extreme tips of mandi- 

 bles, spot on vertex, antennae, three stripes on mesothorax, large 

 mark on pleura continued beneath, and two spots on lateral basal 

 margin of metathorax, black; antonnne about three-fourths the 

 length of body ; mesothorax coarsel}^ rugose ; metathorax coarsely 

 reticulated; scutellum depressed medially; wings dusky-hyaline, 

 fuscous at tips ; first submarginal cell receiving recurrent nervurea 

 little beyond the middle, discoidal cell short, not more than half 

 the length of first submarginal, contracted to a point at tip ; four 

 anterior legs entirely lemon-yellow, posterior femora and tibiae 

 ferruginous, their coxa>, except tips, trochanters, base of femora 

 and tarsi, black, tips of coxsie 3'ellow ; abdomen ferruginous, the 

 first and dorsal edge of second segment black. Length lOi lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 08.) 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 377 



2. Anomalon vitticolle, n. sp. 



9. Lemon-3^ellow ; extreme tips of mandibles, a large tri- 

 angular spot on vertex extending from insertion of antennae to 

 posterior margin of vertex and across to summit of eyes, antennae 

 except basal joint, three broad stripes on mesothorax, oblique line 

 on pleura, triangular mark on scutellum, and three stripes on 

 metathorax connected by line on basal margin, black; antennae as 

 long as the body; scutellum broadly concave; metathorax coarsely 

 reticulated ; wings hyaline, iridescent, extreme tips fuscous; second 

 subniarginal cell receiving recurrent nervure at about the middle, 

 discoidal cell contracted at base ; four anterior legs lemon-yellow, 

 their femora tinged with honey-yellow; posterior legs ferruginous, 

 their coxae hone}- -yellow, a broad stripe on their outer side, tro- 

 chanters, base of the femora and of the tibiae, and their tarsi, 

 entirely black; abdomen ferruginous, very slender, dorsal edge of 

 second segment black; ovipositor as long as first segment. Length 

 6 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 42.) 



3. Anomalon magum, n. sp. 



% 9 . Honey-yellow ; face, mouth, cheeks, anterior orbits, and 

 scape lemon-yellow ; tips of mandibles and spot on vertex black ; 

 head buccate ; antennae about as long as body, dusky above and 

 at tips beneath; scutellums, and sometimes the margins of pleura 

 and sides and apex of metathorax, yellow, the latter coarsely 

 reticulated ; wings tinged witli yellowish-fuscous, nervures ferru- 

 ginous ; discoidal cell long, contracted at base ; legs lemon-yellow, 

 posterior pair honey-yellow, their trochanters above and tips of 

 their tibiae blackish, their tarsi ^^ellow; abdomen much compressed 

 beyond second segment, the dorsal edge of these segments more 

 or less dusky; ovipositor very short. Length 7 lines. 



% . Darker in color ; black spot on vertex very large and con- 

 tinued to occiput; thorax, excepting metathorax, generally much 

 varied with black ; dorsal edge of second and remaining segments 

 blackish. Length 7 lines. 



Cordova. 



4. Anomalon peritum, n. sp. 



9- Yellow; head buccate; extreme tip of mandibles and spot 

 within ocelli black ; antennae scarcely half the length of body, 

 black, basal joint yellow ; thorax punctured, mesothorax less 

 25 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



strongly so, a black spot on anterior middle; metathorax coarsely 

 reticulated; wings slightly tinged with yellowish, first submarginal 

 cell receiving recurrent nervure a little before the middle, discoidal 

 cell contracted at base ; four anterior legs honey-yellow, coxae and 

 trochanters lemon-yellow ; posterior legs ferruginous, trochanters, 

 base of femora, and tibioe, except base, black, coxae tinged with 

 yellowish at base; abdomen ferruginous, much compressed beyond 

 second segment, apex of first and dorsal edge of second segments 

 black ; ovipositor very short. Length T lines. 

 Mirador. 



5. Anomalon residuum, n. sp. 



9. Head strongly buccate, shining, lemon-3'ellow, tips of man- 

 dibles, and a large spot on vertex covering ocelli and extending 

 to posterior margin of oociput black, margined with honey-yellow 

 at summit of eyes ; antennae as long as body, brown, pale beneath, 

 three basal joints above and apical joints more or less blackish ; 

 thorax ferruginous ; mesothorax shining, prominent anteriorly, 

 with a black stripe attenuated posteriorl3^ ; scutellum and spot on 

 postscutellum yellow ; lower margin of prothorax and spot on 

 posterior margin of pleura yellow ; metathorax with large reticu- 

 lations, sides and apex tinged with yellow ; wings hyaline, first 

 submarginal cell receiving recurrent nervure before the middle, 

 discoidal cell long, much contracted at base; four anterior legs 

 lemon-yellow, their femora honey-yellow; posterior legs ferrugi- 

 nous, trochanters black, tibiae and tarsi dusky; abdomen honej^- 

 yellow, much compressed beyond second segment, dorsal edge of 

 second and following segments blackish ; venter yellow ; ovipositor 

 very short. Length 6 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 155.) 



6. Anomalon scelerosum, n. sp. 



% $ . Honej'-yellow or pale ferruginous, clothed with a short 

 fine whitish pubescence; face, orbits, mouth, and cheeks lemon- 

 yellow, large spot inclosing ocelli black; tips of mandibles black; 

 head buccate; antennae three-fourths as long as body, honey-yel- 

 low, tips dusky, scape beneath yellowish ; metathorax coarsely 

 reticulated ; wings hyaline, iridescent, faintly tinged with dusky ; 

 first submarginal cell receiving the recurrent nervure a little before 

 the middle, discoidal cell long, much contracted at base; legs 

 honey-yellow, four anterior tibiju and tarsi and posterior tarsi 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 379 



except base lemon-yellow ; abdomen very slender, much compressed 

 beyond second segment, dorsal edge of second and third segments 

 and the two apical segments entirely black ; ovipositor very short. 

 Length 6 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 154.) 



7. Anomalon fumipenne, n. sp. 



9 Dull ferruginous, rather thickly clothed with a short dull 

 yellowish pubescence; head buccate; face and cheeks 3'ellow; 



antennae ; metathorax coarsely reticulated; wings 



dark fuscous; first subraarginal cell receiving the recurrent nervure 

 a little before the middle, discoidal cell contracted at base ; fouj- 

 anterior legs yellow, tinged with ferruginous at base; posterior 

 legs ferruginous, trochanters and apical half of tibias black, their 

 tarsi shorter than the tibiae, yellow ; abdomen strongly compressed 

 beyond second segment, the dorsal edge of which is black; ovi. 

 positor very short. Length 7 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumiclu'ast, No. 69.) The legs are shorter and 

 stouter than is usual in this genus. 



8. Anomalon agnatum, n. sp. 



% . Yellow ; head strongly buccate, a large black spot behind 

 antennae, inclosing ocelli; antennae more than half the length of 

 body, honey-yellow, basal joint yellow, second and third and 

 apical joints black; mesothorax honey-yellow with an elongate 

 black spot on each lobe, the depressions crenulated; metathorax 

 coarsely reticulated; wings uniformly pale yellowish-hj'aline; first 

 submargiual cell receiving the recurrent nervure a little before the 

 middle, discoidal cell long, contracted at base; legs honev-j'ellow, 

 tips of intermediate femora and the posterior trochanters, femora 

 and tips of tibiae honey-yellow; abdomen yellow or pale honey- 

 j'ellow, dorsal edge of second and the two apical segments black, 

 third and following segments strongly compressed. Length 8 

 lines. 



Mirador. 



9. Anomalon? elegans, n. sp. 



5 . Shining, pale lemon-yellow ; tips of mandibles, spot behind 

 insertion of antennae, vertex, and occiput black; antennae black at 

 tip, becoming paler to base which is yellow; mesotiiorax sparselj^ 

 and sti'ongly punctured, posterior half black ; metathorax smooth 

 with a narrow black band across the disk, sometimes interrupted 




380 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



into spots; wings hyaline, iridescent, beautifully tipped with black; 

 four anterior legs lemon-yellow, intermediate tarsi dusk}'; poste- 

 rior legs honey-3'ellow, their coxag lemon-yellow, with a slender 

 black stripe on outer side, tips of their tibi and their tarsi black; 

 abdomen dark honey-yellow, lateral margins of second and third 

 segments and sometimes tlie disk of first black; ovipositor nearly 

 as long as abdomen, honey-yellow, slieatiis pale yellow; head 

 transverse, face with a prominent tubercle, eyes prominent; 

 antennae long and slender; mesothorax not prominent; first sub- 

 marginal cell receiving the recurrent nervure about the middle, 

 discoidal cell short, much contracted at base ; abdomen only 

 slightly compressed at tip, the first three segments being depressed. 

 Length 6 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 40.) A beautiful species, differing 

 from Anomalon chiefly by the abdomen not being compressed. 



Genus OPHIOPTERUS, Brull^. 



Ophiopterus ferrugineus, n. sp. 



9. Ferruginous; head coarsely punctured, clothed with a very 

 short silvery pile, sides of face and posterior orbits 3'ellow; 

 antennne as long as body, very slender, black, basal half pale fer- 

 ruginous, a rather broad yellowish-white annulus between middle 

 and apex; mesothorax rugoso-punctate ; pleura sparsely punctate; 

 metathorax reticulated, the apex suddenly attenuated aud pro- 

 longed to insertion of abdomen ; sides of pleura and metathorax 

 clothed with a fine white pubescence; wings hyaline, faintl}' dusky 

 at tips, neuration as usual in Anomalon^ the discoidal cell about 

 one-third contracted at base; legs pale ferruginous, four anterior 

 tibiiB and tarsi more or less yellowish, posterior tarsi black, with 

 tiie second and part of joints yellow; abdomen slender, compressed 

 dorsal edge of second segment blackish; ovipositor very short, 

 sheaths black. Length 8 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 4*7.) 



Genus EIPHOSOMA, Cresson. 



1. Eiphosoma mexicana, n. sp. 



9. Lemon-3'ellow; tips of mandibles, large spot on vertex 

 inclosing ocelli and extending on and covering nearly the entire 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



occiput, antennffi except scape beneath, three broad stripes on 

 mesothorax, oblique stripe on pleura, basal margin of metathorax, 

 and a stripe down the median sulcus not quite reaching the apex, 

 spot on outer side of posterior coxfe, basal trochanter, base of 

 their femora dilated within, base and apex of their tibiae and their 

 tarsi, spot on tip of first abdominal segment, and dorsal edge of 

 remaining segments, broad on second and gradually narrower to 

 apex, all black; mesothorax strongly and sparsely punctured; 

 metathorax sparsely punctured, median sulcus deep and smooth ; 

 wings hyaline, nervures and stigma black, apical trochanter of 

 posterior legs white, their femora ferruginous, white at extreme 

 apex, tooth small and acute, their tibiae with a broadish 3'ellow 

 annulus ; abdomen honey-yellow, basal half of first segment pale 

 yellow. Length 9^-10 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 6*7, 10, 149.) This is larger than 

 vitticollis, which it resembles by the wings being clear at tips; the 

 body is more robust and the posterior femora ditferently colored. 



2. Eiphosoma vitticollis. 



Eiphosoma vitticollis, Cress., Proc. Eat. Soc. Phil., iv. p. 53. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, Nos. 43, 114.) 



3. Eiphosoma azteca, n. sp. 



9 Lemon-yellow; extreme tips of mandibles, large spot on 

 vertex covering ocelli and occiput, antennae except scape beneath, 

 three stripes on mesothorax, oblique line on pleura, sometimes 

 slightly interrupted, basal suture of metathorax, stripe down the 

 median sulcus, a spot on the flanks, and sometimes the tip of scutel- 

 lum, black; sometimes the lateral stripes on mesothorax are fer- 

 ruginous shading into black or brown anteriorly; mesothorax with 

 large sparse punctures ; sulcus of metathorax broad and rather 

 deep; wings hyaline, iridescent, tipped with pale fuliginous; four 

 anterior legs lemon-yellow, their femora and posterior coxae more 

 or less honey-yellow; posterior femora ferruginous, base of their 

 trochanters, tlieir tibiae, except an ill-defined yellowish annulus on 

 middle, and their tarsi black ; apex of trochanters j'ellow, some- 

 times their coxae within and base and apex of femora within are 

 black ; femoral tooth short ; abdomen hone\^-vellow or pale fer- 

 ruginous, dorsal edge of second and remaining segments black, 

 broad on second and gradually narrower on the others, basal half 

 of first segment 3'ellowish ; ovipositor about half the length of 

 body, sheaths black. Length 7^-9^ lines. 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



% More slender; stripes on mesothorax very broad and some- 

 times confluent posteriori}' ; apex of scutellum and postseutellum 

 generally black ; tips of wings darker ; legs honey-yellow, poste- 

 rior femora above, their tibia? almost entirely and their tarsi black ; 

 abdomen very slender, the dorsal edge and generally the two or 

 three apical segments black. Length 6-T^ lines. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. Generally larger than nigrovittata (from 

 Cuba) which it resembles in the ornamentation of the anterior 

 wings, but differs greatly in the color of posterior legs. 



Genus PANISCUS, Grav. 



Paniscus geminatus. 



Op7iion geminaius, Say, Macl. Lye, i. p. 76. 



Orizaba; Cordova (Sumichrast, No. 103) ; Mirador. Very 

 common, varying in size from i-S^ lines. 



Genus CAMPOPLEX, Grav. 



1. Campoplex opimus, n. sp. 



9 . Head, antennae, thorax, coxpe, posterior femora, tips of their 

 tibiii^, their tarsi, and dorsal edge of abdomen, black, clothed with 

 a pale pubescence, most dense on face, sides of scutellum, and on 

 metathorax; mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, tegulie, four anterior 

 legs, basal two-thirds of posterior tibi, and abdomen except 

 dorsal edge, pale yellow; metathorax tinged with yellowish on 

 each side above, sulcate down the middle and transversely striate; 

 wings yellowish-hyaline, dusky at tips, areolet rather small, tri- 

 angular. Length 8 lines. 



Cordova. 



2. Campoplex tepanecus, n. sp. 



9. Kufo-fuscous, more or less varied with blackish; antenn.ne 

 black, the scape sometimes rufous; face, mesothorax, middle of 

 metathorax, femora, and dorsal edge of second abdominal segment 

 generally black ; spot on mandibles, palpi, four anterior tibise, 

 anterior tarsi, and line on outside of posterior tibiae, yellow ; wings 

 hyaline or subliyaline, marginal cell and apex more or less dusky, 

 areolet large. Length 7^-8 lines. 



S. Head, antenna^, thorax, and legs black; abdomen rnfo- 

 fuscous, dusky at apex; scape beneath and posterior t'lbhxi except 

 tii)s, yellow. Length 5 lines. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 45.) 



3. Campoplex lacivius, n. op. 



% . Black, clothed with pale pubescence ; abdomen brown ; 

 spot on mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, tegulse, anterior coxae 

 beneath, anterior legs except trochanters and femora above, tips 

 of intermediate femora, their tibiae and tarsi except tips of joints 

 yellowish-white ; wings subhyaline, areolet moderate, subtriangu- 

 lar, petiolated ; dorsal edge of second abdominal segment black. 

 Length 5^ lines. 



Cordova. 



4. Campoplex aurifer, n. sp. 



9, Head, antennge, thorax, and posterior coxae, black, clothed 

 with a golden pile, especially dense on face, sides of scutellum, and 

 face of metathorax; mandibles, scape beneath, tegulae, legs, and 

 most of abdomen, lemon-yellow ; wings yellow-hyaline, nervures 

 yellow, areolet large ; outer side of posterior femora and tibiae, and 

 their tarsi dusky; apex of first abdominal segment, dorsal edge 

 of remaining segments, broad on second and very narrow on the 

 others, blackish, sides of abdomen tinged with dusky. Length 

 8^ lines. 



%, Differs by the first abdominal segment being fuscous and 

 remaining segments more varied with dusky; the golden pile on 

 metathorax is more dense and brighter ; the antennae are longer. 

 Length 8 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 46.) ^ 



5. Campoplex flavipennis, n. sp. 



9. Head, thorax, and posterior coxae black, clothed with a 

 golden pile, especially dense on face; sides of scutellum and 

 metathorax; mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, tegulae, legs, and 

 abdomen, lemon-yellow; wings yellow-hyaline, apex faintly dusky, 

 areolet large; antennse fuscous, much paler at base; posterior 

 femora, dorsal edge of second abdominal segment and narrow 

 apical margins of remaining segments dusky. Length 4-6 lines. 



Var. Terminalis, 9. Three apical segments of abdomen 

 entirel}^ fuscous. Length 6| lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 41.) 



6. Campoplex melliventris, n. sp. 



9. Head, thorax, and coxae, black, with a sparse golden pile; 

 antennae blackish, pale at base, scape yellow beneath ; spot on 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mandibles, palpi, tegulse, four anterior legs, and posterior tro- 

 chanters pale lemon-yellow ; posterior legs and abdomen pale 

 honey-yellow; upper edge of second abdominal segment black; 

 wings h^'aline, iridescent, tips dusk)' ; areolet moderate, trian- 

 gular, petiolated. Length 4| lines. 

 Cordova. 



7. Campoplex lectus, n. sp. 



% . Head, antennse, thorax, coxse, apex of abdomen, and upper 

 edge of second segment, black, with a very fine sparse golden 

 pile; mandibles, scape beneath, tegulce, four anterior legs, anterior 

 coxse beneath, and basal segment of abdomen, pale lemon-j'ellow ; 

 posterior legs and remainder of abdomen bone3'-3-ellow, the former 

 varied with dusky; wings yellow-h3'aline, apex fuscous, areolet 

 large, rliomboidal, petiolated ; metathorax finely' reticulated. 

 Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 128.) 



8. Campoplex gnarus, n. sp. 



% . Head, antennae, and thorax black, clothed with a pale 

 golden pubescence"*, mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, tegulfe, four 

 anterior legs pale lemon-yellow ; posterior legs and abdomen honey- 

 yellow ; base of flagellum pale; posterior tarsi, apex of abdomen, 

 and dorsal edge of second segment blackish ; wings hyaline, iri- 

 descent, tips fuscous, areolet large, rhomboidal, petiolated. Length 

 4 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 157.) Much like melliventriSj 

 but distinguished at once by the yellow coxjc. 



9. Campoplex calcaratus, n. sp. 



Z9. Black; spot on mandibles, palpi, tegula?, anterior legs 

 except coxre, tips of intermediate femora, their tibire and tarsi, 

 extreme base of posterior tibiai and all the tibial spurs, pale 

 leraon-3'ellow; abdomen rufous, tiie first, most of second, and 

 dorsal edge of remaining segments black ; face, metathorax, and 

 legs clothed with a fine silvery pile ; wings hyaline, iridescent, 

 areolet large. Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 80.) 



10. Campoplex macilentus, n. sp. 



9. lilack, clothed with a sparse silvery pubescence; tliird and 

 following segments of abdomen, except broad dorsal edge, honey- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



yellow ; mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, tour anterior legs, apex 

 of posterior coxae and their trochanters and tibial spurs, pale 

 yellow ; wings hyaline, iridescent, apical margin faintly dusky, 

 areolet minute, petiolated ; head broader than usual, subbuccate ; 

 metathorax with elevated lines. Length 5 lines. 

 Cordova. 



11. Campoplex divisus, n. sp. 



%. Head, four posterior coxfe, and first abdominal .segment, 

 except apex, black, clothed with a sparse pale golden pubescence ; 

 posterior legs and abdomen hone^'-yellow ; mandibles, palpi, scape, 

 tegulae, anterior coxae, and four anterior legs pale yellow ; pos- 

 terior tibiae and tarsi dusky; base of second and third segments 

 of abdomen black; wings hyaline, dusky at tips, areolet minute, 

 l^etiolated. Length 4 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 133.) 



12. Campoplex maceratus, n. sp. 



% . Head, antenna, thorax, four posterior coxae, and posterior 

 tibiae and tarsi black; face, scutellum, and metathorax clothed 

 with a very dense golden pubescence ; mandibles, palpi, scape, 

 tegulae, four anterior legs, except intermediate coxae above, and 

 posterior trochanters, pale lemon-yellow ; posterior femora and 

 abdomen brown ; first abdominal segment near apex, and second 

 segment above black ; wings hyaline, tips dusky, areolet minute, 

 petiolated. Length 6 lines. 



Cordova. 



13. Campoplex nefastus, n. sp. 



% . Black ; mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, anterior legs and 

 tibite, except base and apex of posterior pair, yellow ; wings 

 3'ellowisli-hyaline, nervures black, areolet minute, petiolated, 

 opaque; abdomen shining, clavate, compressed; metathorax with 

 well-defined elevated lines. Length 5 lines. 



Cordova. 



14. Campoplex legalis, n. sp. 



% . Head, antennae, thorax, and coxa? black, clothed with a 

 golden pubescence, most dense on face, sides of scutellum, and 

 metathorax ; mandibles, palpi, scape, tegulae, and four anterior 

 legs pale yellow ; tips of four anterior tarsi, posterior legs, except 

 trochanters, upper and lower edge of femora, and outer edge of 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tibiffi, blackish ; abdomen yellowish-brown, first segment, except 

 apex, and dorsal edge of remaining segments black; wings hya- 

 line, tips dusky, areolet minute, petiolated. Length 5^ lines. 

 Mirador. 



15 Campoplex inaequalipes, n. sp. 



9 . Black, clothed with a pale pubescence ; posterior legs and 

 abdomen, except base above, reddish-l)rown ; mandibles, palpi, 

 four anterior legs, except coxae, and posterior tibiae, except first 

 and last joints, pale yellow ; wings yellowish-hyaline, faintly dusky 

 at tips, areolet minute, petiolated; metathorax broadly'- excavated 

 behind, the lateral angles prominent; posterior legs long, robust, 

 tibiae dilated and flattened at tips, first tarsal joint robust; abdomen 

 short, arcuate, compressed at tip ; antenna longer than body. 

 Length 4 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 54.) 



Genus LIMNERIA, Holmgren. 



Limnerial insolens, n. sp. 



% 9. Opaque-black, head and thorax clothed with a fine whitish 

 pubescence; mandibles, palpi, scape beneath, and tegulte, yellow- 

 ish-white; metathorax with tolerably well-defined elevated lines 

 forming cells, the central one broad, sexangular ; wings hyaline, 

 iridescent, nervures and stigma black, no areolet ; all the coxae 

 black, anterior legs pale yellow, their femora, except tips, their 

 tibiae within, and tarsal tips more or less fuscous; four posterior 

 leo-s black, a broad whitish annulus near base of the tibia'; two 

 spots at base of second abdominal segment, band at base of third, 

 and base of venter yelloAvish-white, apex of 9 abdomen broad and 

 compressed. Length 3 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. 



NONNUS, n. gen. 



Form long and slender ; head transverse, eyes very prominent, 

 face narrow, wider above, sides depressed, clypeus convex, man- 

 dibles rather large, ocelli tolerably prominent, cheeks small ; an- 

 tenna' long and very slender, basal joint short and globose; thorax 

 gibbous; mcsothorax sometimes with depressed longitudinal lines; 

 scutellum gibbous, convex ; metathorax elongate, longer than meso- 

 tliorax and scutellum together, generally smooth, apex not pro- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



diiced, spiracles linear ; pleura large, convex beneath ; wings narrow, 

 marginal cell long, lanceolate, pointed at apex, first submarginal 

 cell receiving recurrent nervure before the middle, areolet longi- 

 tudinally subquadrate, nearly twice longer than broad, receiving 

 the second recurrent nervure, which is oblique, at the middle, 

 stigma very narrow ; legs verj'' long and slender, anterior tibiae 

 very short, incrassate, attenuated at base and depressed at tip, 

 their tarsi double the length of the tibii\i and very slender, inter- 

 mediate tarsi longer than their tibiae, while the posterior tibiae and 

 tarsi are about equal in length, their coxae elongate ; claws minute 

 and pectinated ; abdomen nearly twice longer than thorax, only 

 slightly compressed towards apex, first segment sublinear, thick- 

 ened towards apex, second segment a little longer than the first, 

 depressed, slightly widened towards apex, third segment about 

 half the length of second, the remaining segments very gradually 

 shorter; ovipositor two-thirds the length of the abdomen. 



1. Nonnus atratus, n. sp. 



5 Body entirely black ; the two or three basal joints of fla- 



gellum above, and a tolerably broad annulus about the middle, 

 white; disk of metathorax transversely striated ; wings brassy- 

 hyaline, nervures black ; anterior legs, the intermediate tibiae and 

 tarsi in front and base of posterior tibiae more or less luteous, 

 second and third joints of posterior tarsi white ; sheaths of ovi- 

 positor broadly tipped with white. Length 6-8 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 116.) 



2, Nonnus antennatus, n. sp. 



9, Ferruginous; thorax clothed with a very fine silvery seri- 

 ceous pile; head and antennae black, tlie second, third, fourth, and 

 a part of the fifth joints of the latter above, and a broad annulus 

 a little beyond the middle white ; palpi, except basal joint, also 

 white ; mandibles with a testaceous spot ; mesothorax perfectly 

 smooth, sometimes with a broad central black stripe ; metathorax 

 finely rugulose on disk ; wings brass^^-hyaline, nervures black ; 

 legs pale ferruginous, paler to tips, posterior tarsi blackish, with 

 second and third joints white ; abdomen black beyond second seg- 

 ment, apex with two small white spots ; ovipositor broadly tii)ped 

 with white. Length 5^-T lines. 



% . More slender ; base of antenme honey-yellow ; four anterior 

 tibiae yellow ; two apical joints of anterior tarsi and the inter- 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mediate pair, except base, blackish, tips of posterior tibiae blackish, 

 apical half of first joint of their tai'si, as well as the second and 

 third joints, white ; abdomen gradually darker from tip of second 

 segment to apox. Length 5i lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 39 9, 145 I.) 



Genus MESOCIIORUS, Grav. 



Mesoehorus totanacus, n. sp. 



9 . Pale hone3'-3'ellow,metathorax and abdomen darker, smooth, 

 and polished ; tips of mandibles, antennae except base, first seg- 

 ment of /abdomen, and basal half of second, black ; wings hyaline, 

 iridescent, nervures and stigma blackish ; tips of posterior femora, 

 of their tibiae, and of all the tarsi, dusky; head large, transverse, 

 face broad, prominent beneath antennae, eyes small, ovate, cheeks 

 large, convex; antennae slender (broken off beyond joint 9); 

 mesothorax convex, slightly protubei'ant anteriorly; metathorax 

 rounded, convex, with sharply-defined elevated lines, forming 

 areas, the central one elongate, rather large ; wings ample, stigma 

 large, areolet large, rhomboidal; legs slender; abdomen flattened 

 at base, compressed at tip ; ovipositor short. Length 2j lines. 



Orizaba. 



Genus PRISTOMERUS, Curtis. 



Pristomerus mexicanus, n. sp. 



% . Black, shining ; clj'peus honey-3'ellow ; mandibles, except 

 tips and palpi, pale yellowish ; scape pale ferruginous ; sides of 

 mesothorax ferruginous, scutellum paler ; tegulae j'ellowish ; meta- 

 thorax with well-defined elevated lines, forming several differently 

 shaped cells, the central one elongate, w'idened near apex ; wings 

 hyaline, iridescent, nervures and stigma black ; four anterior logs 

 yellow^, their coxae and femora honey -yellow; posterior coxa? black, 

 their tips yellowish, their femora and tibiiu brown or blackish- 

 brown, extreme base and apex of the femora and middle of the 

 tibiae yellowish, their tarsi fuscous pale at base; posterior tro- 

 chanters pale at tips, femoral tooth long and stout, between it 

 and the tip several very fine serratures ; apical half of first ab- 

 dominal segment and ver^'^ narrow apical margin of first and 

 second segments, sometimes obsolete, pale ^'cUowish. Length '61 

 lines. 



Mirador. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Genus EXETASTES, Grav. 



1. Exetastes vittatipes, n. sp. 



9. Head white, vertex and occiput except orbits, spot beneath 

 antennae, tips of mandibles, and antennae black, scape beneath and 

 broad annulus on antennas white ; prothorax black, anterior mar- 

 gin broadly white; mesothorax black, two spots in front and one 

 on the disk, white ; base of scutellum, postscutelliun, tegulse, 

 metathorax, and pleura white, apex of scutellum, scutellar region, 

 a large bilobed mark at base of metathorax, the extreme apex, line 

 on anterior lateral suture, spot beneath tegulse, and two or three 

 small spots on side of pleura, black ; wings hyaline, nervures and 

 stigma black ; coxae, trochanters, and posterior tarsi white, 

 remainder luteous-yellow, stripe on outside of coxae and on tro- 

 chanters, stripe on all the femora above, outer side of four anterior 

 tibiae, their tarsi, and tips of posterior tarsi, black, base of the 

 latter yellow; abdomen above black, base of first segment and 

 broad apical margins of all the segments white ; venter whitish. 

 Clj'peus convex ; antennae as long as body, slender, especially at 

 tips; thorax opaque; metathorax rounded, minutely sculptured; 

 abdomen shining, tips subcompressed, ovipositor short. Length 

 5^ lines. 



Cordova. 



2. Exetastes tarsalis, n. sp. 



% 9. Differs from vittatipes only as follows: The metathorax 

 has two lunate marks at base instead of a bilobed mark ; only the 

 extreme apex of scutellum is black ; the legs are strongl^^ tinged 

 with honey-yellow, a dot on outside of intermediate coxae, a stripe 

 on posterior pair, and tips of all the tarsi, black, posterior tibiae, 

 and tarsi yellow, tips of the former dusky and of the latter black ; 

 remainder as in vittatipes. Length 4^ lines. 



Cordova. 



3. Exetastes mexicanns, n. sp. 



% . Lemon-yellow ; spot on vertex, covering ocelli, transverse 

 curved line on occiput, tips of mandibles, antennae, except scape 

 beneath and annulus on flagellum, two spots on prothorax ante- 

 riorly, its upper and lateral margins, three broad Hues on meso- 

 thorax, the medial one abbreviated behind, the others abbreviated 

 before and confluent behind, triangular mark on base of scutellum, 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



its apical margin, bilobed mark on base of metathorax, line on 

 lateral anterior suture, a spot at extreme tip above, line on ante- 

 rior suture of pleura, a spot beneath wing, another low down, 

 another before each middle coxa, spot on outside of four anterior 

 coxffi, line on posterior pair behind, posterior trochanters at base, 

 line on four anterior femora above, posterior pair within, tips of 

 their tiliise, tips of all the tarsi more or less, band on middle of 

 first abdominal segment, and the remaining segments above, except 

 broad apical margins, black; wings yellow-hyaline, nervures 

 brown, stigma honey-j'ellow. Antennae longer than body, slender; 

 scutellnm convex; metathorax striated across the middle; abdo- 

 men compressed at tip. Length 5^ lines, 

 Mirador. 



Genus MESOLEPTUS, Grav. 



1. Mesoleptus calidns. 



Mesolepius calidus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 33, % . 



Cordova. 



2. Mesoleptus aztecns, n. sp. 



% . Honey-yellow; face, mouth, orbits, cheeks, brqad annulus 

 on antenna?, collar, prothorax, most of pleura, flanks of metathorax, 

 scutellum, tegulae, four anterior and most of posterior coxae, white; 

 spot on vertex, tips of mandibles, middle and apex of antennte, 

 spot behind head, sutural line beneath tegulae, sutures and 

 impressed lines of mesothorax, sides of scutellum, posterior suture 

 of pleura, slender stripe on each side of metathorax, a spot on 

 apical middle, and a line over posterior coxae, black; wings hya- 

 line, iridescent, nervures black. Slender ; metathorax longitudi- 

 nally striated, with two transverse carinas ; areolet of anterior 

 wing broad 5-angular; abdomen long, slender, subclavate; antennse 

 about as long as body. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



3. Mesoleptus melleus. 



Mesoleptus mellem^ Cress., Trans. Am. I]nt. Soc, ii. p. 34, %. 



Cordova. 



4. Mesoleptus bardus. 



Mesolejitua btirdus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 34, %. 



Cordova. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 391 



5. Mesoleptus imbecillis. 



Mesoleptus imbecillis, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 34, % . 



Cordova. 



6. Mesoleptus emaceratus. 



Mesoleptus emaceratus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 35, %. 



Orizaba. 



7. Mesoleptus decorosus. 



Mesoleptus decorosus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 35, %. 



Orizaba. 



8. Mesoleptus ? bucephalus. 



Mesoleptus? bucephalus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 36, '^. 



Cordova. 



9. Mesoleptus? anguina, n. sp. 



9 . Head and thorax whitish ; large ovate mark above antennae 

 extending from their base to back of occiput, posterior margin of 

 latter, antennae (except annulus, and scape beneath, which are 

 white), mesothorax except two central stripes, scutellar region, 

 middle of metathorax, broadly and suddenly dilated at base, a 

 spot on each side anteriorly, spot at base of posterior coxae, their 

 trochanters above, line on first abdominal segment, base of second 

 and a stripe on each side of this and the following segments, black ; 

 legs and abdomen tinged with honey-yellow ; coxae, trochanters, 

 and first abdominal segment whitish ; wings hyaline, iridescent, 

 nervures brownish. Smooth and polished ; head large, subglobose, 

 cheeks broad, convex : clypeus large, convex, apex truncate ; eyes 

 rather small, ovate ; antennae about as long as body, slender, fla- 

 gellum slightly thickened at tips ; scutellum smooth and convex ; 

 metathorax rounded above, with a transverse arcuate carina near 

 base and another near apex ; wings narrow, areolet incomplete, 

 the outer nervure wanting, stigma small ; legs long, slender, sim- 

 ple, claws simple ; abdomen long and slender, especially so at 

 base, arched in profile, the two basal segments long, the second 

 the longer, with large oblique gastrocaeli ; ovipositor short. 

 Length 3|- lines. 



Orizaba. 



Genus TRYPHON, Grav. 

 1. Tryphon mexicanus, n. .sp. 



% . Black ; mandibles, palpi, tegulae, and four anterior coxje and 

 trochanters very pale lemon-yellow or yellowish-white ; antennae 




392 PROOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



fuscous, base yellowish; legs and abdomen except first segment and 

 two spots near base of second honey-yellow ; wings subhj'aline, 

 faintly' fuscous. Shining; head and thorax finely pubescent; head 

 broad; antennae long, setaceous; metathorax rounded, with well- 

 defined elevated lines crossing each other and forming cells; 

 mesothorax smooth, round, without impressed lines ; outer nervure 

 of areolet wanting ; legs slender, claws pectinate ; abdomen sub- 

 petiolate, subclavate, flattened, polished. Length 4 lines. 

 Mirador. 



2. Tryphon croceiventris. 



Tryphon croceiventris, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 36, %. 



Cordova. 



3. Tryphon'? maculipennis, n. sp. 



% 9. Smooth and shining, ferruginous, broad annulus before 

 apex of antennae and posterior tarsi except base and apex, pale 

 yellow ; wings unusuallj'^ broad, dark fuscous, with a large sub- 

 triangular h3'aline spot on anterior pair beginning at apex of 

 stigma, tip of wing paler fuscous ; tips of antenna black, base 

 hone\'-3'ellow. Length 3^-4 lines. 



Orizaba. 



4. Tryphon ? laticinctus. 



Tryphon f laticinctus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 36, 9- 



Cordova. 



Genus EXOCHOIDES, Cresson. 



1. Exochoides mexicana. 



Exochoides mexicana, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 37, %. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 3.) 



2. Exochoides concinna. 



Exochoides concinna, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 37, % . 



Cordova. 



Genus EXOCHUS, Grav. 



1. Exochus caeruliventris. 



Exochus cmruliventris, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 38, %. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 52.) 



2. Exochus tricarinatus. 



Exochus tricarinatus, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 38, %. 



Cordova. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



3. Exochus pulchripes. 



Exochus pulchripes, Cress., Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, ii. p. 38, %. 



Orizaba. 



Genus METOPIUS, Panz. 



1. Metopius femoratus, n. sp. 



% Black, with a short, pale j^ellow, subserieeous pubescence ; 

 face, anterior orbits, palpi, base of antennae beneath, tegulae except 

 base, line before, a short one beneath, two obscure lines on poste- 

 rior middle of mesothorax, tip of scutellums, longitudinal mark 

 on each side of metathorax, large, irregular mark on pleura ante- 

 riorly, four anterior legs, posterior trochanters, base and apex of 

 their femora, their tibiae, base of their tarsi, first segment of abdo- 

 men except base, apical margin of the second, slightly interrupted 

 medially, apical half of third and fourth, and the remaining seg- 

 ments, except base more or less, all lemon-yellow ; antennae brown- 

 testaceous beneath, paler at base ; four anterior femora beneath, 

 tips of posterior tibiae, of all the tarsi, and base of first abdominal 

 segment, brownish ; wings subhyaline, broadly yellowish along 

 costa, marginal cell faintly dusky. Strongly punctured ; the 

 shield-shaped front bounded by a sharp carina; antennae nearly 

 two-thirds the length of body, filiform ; scutellum quadrate, flat, 

 sides strongly reflexed, and acutely and strongly produced behind 

 in shape of a tooth, apex of scutellum rounded ; metathorax with 

 obsoletely defined elevated lines ; legs short and rather slender, 

 the posterior femora short and much swollen ; abdomen long, 

 slightly thickened at base, strongly and confluently punctured, 

 first segment gibbous at base, apical margin of remaining segments 

 bisinuate. Length 5 lines. 



Cordova. A beautiful species. 



2. Metopias scutatifrons, n. sp. 



% Black, opaque, clothed with a short, thin, pale, subseriee- 

 ous pubescence ; entire margin of the shield-shaped front, spot 

 between antennae, sometimes upper margin of prothorax and apical 

 margin of scutellum, tip of first and apical margin of third and 

 fourth abdominal segments more or less, whitish; antenna brown- 

 ish beneath, paler at base; legs more or less brownish; wings 

 hyaline, marginal cell fuscous. Densely punctured, the abdomen 

 very coarsely so ; the shield-shaped front bounded by a very sharp 

 carina; antennae about as long as head and thorax, robust, fili- 

 26 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



form ; thorax rather strongly and very closely punctured ; scu- 

 telhim rugose, sides very strongly reflexed and acutel}' produced 

 behind, the tooth bent downward, apex of scutellum truncate ; me- 

 tathorax with moderately distinct elevated lines; posterior femora 

 robust; abdomen elongate, clavate, first segment much longer 

 than broad, with several acute, longitudinal carinre, remaining 

 segments with a medial longitudinal carina, the second and third 

 very coarsely and confluently punctured, the remaining segments 

 gradually less coarsely sculptured. Length 5^ lines. 

 Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 35.) 



Genus EPIRHYSSA, Cresson. 



Epirhyssa mexicana, n. sp. 



9. Lemon-yellow; line on vertex from e3''e to eye and covering 

 ocelli, sutures of mesothorax, basal sutures of scutellum and of 

 metathorax, tarsi, and narrow apical margin of abdominal seg- 

 ments, fuscous; antennae black; wings yellow-hyaline, dusky at 

 tips, the anterior pair with a fuliginous spot at apex. Shining, 

 smooth; mesothorax coarsely, transversely rugose. Length 8-10 

 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. 



* Genus EPIIIALTES, Grav. 



Ephialtes atriceps, n. sp. 



9 Pale ferruginous; head, antennae, most of prothorax, 



sutures of thorax above, and transverse spot on lateral apical 

 margin of second and three following abdominal segments, black; 

 scape beneath, tegulae, line before and most of legs, white ; poste- 

 rior coxae and femora except tips, pale hone3'^-yellow; line on four 

 anterior femora above and the tarsi dusky; wings hj'aline, irides- 

 cent. Elongate, narrow, smooth, and shining; head subglobose; 

 antennae short, slender; metathorax smooth, rounded; abdomen 

 subsessile, very long, of uniform width, segments 2-5 above with 

 a swelling on each side of middle; areolet subtriangular. Length 

 6^ lines. 



Orizaba. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Genus EPIMECIS, Brulld. 



Epimecisi thoracicus, n. sp. 



?. Head, antennae, and abdomen, black; palpi, thorax, and 

 four anterior femora and tibiae, pale honey-yellow; extreme tips 

 of metathorax, tips of anterior tarsi, four posterior tarsi, posterior 

 trochanters, base of their femora, a band near the tips, interrupted 

 above, and their tibiae except middle exteriorly, black, remainder 

 of the legs white ; wings h3'aline, subiridescent, nervures and 

 stigma black ; venter wliite ; ovipositor honey-yellow, sheaths 

 black. Form long, slender, cylindrical, surface smooth and shin- 

 ing, subpubescent ; antennae as long as abdomen, setaceous ; 

 mesothorax strongly trilobed, narrowed anteriorly into a neck ; 

 metathorax smooth and polished, a deep channel on basal middle ; 

 wings narrow, areolet wanting; legs long and slender, claws sim- 

 ple, pulvilli very large ; abdomen long, sessile, depressed, sides 

 parallel, segments longer than wide, subquadrate, with a blister- 

 like elevation on each side, and a depression on basal middle ; 

 ovipositor half as long as abdomen. Length 5 lines. 



Orizaba. 



Genus THERONIA, Holmgren. 



1. Theronia montezuma, n. sp. 



% 9. Lemon-yellow, shining; tips of mandibles, antennae, ex- 

 cept base beneath, posterior tarsi, and sheaths of ovipositor black, 

 ovipositor chestnut-red ; vertex, occiput, and three narrow longi- 

 tudinal lines on mesothorax pale brownish, sometimes indistinctly 

 so; wings yellowish-hyaline, dusky at apical margin, a fuliginous 

 spot at tip of marginal cell, nervures black; antennae filiform, more 

 than one-half the length of the body, the joints short ; mesothorax 

 slightly trilobed, the middle lobe grooved down the middle; scu- 

 tellum with erect pubescence, the lateral basal margins acutely 

 carinate ; metathorax rounded, with a strongly-developed, acute, 

 arcuated carina across the middle, less strongly developed in tiie 

 % ; wings ample, areolet subquadrangular, oblique ; legs robust, 

 posterior coxje compressed ; abdomen subsessile, narrow, more or 

 less clavate, smooth and shining; first segment narrow, longer 

 than the second (which is almost equilateral), with two longitu- 

 dinal elevated lines, divergent at base, and confluent at tip ; second 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



segment with a fovea on each side at base; ovipositor not half the 

 length of the abdomen. Length 6-7| lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. (Sumichrast, No. 10.) Common. 

 The mesothorax has sometimes a black line over the tegnla?, and 

 the abdomen is sometimes more or less fuscous at tip ; this latter 

 is doubtless owing to discoloration, 



2. Theronia tolteca, n. sp. 



% 9. Honej'-yellow, smooth and shining; face, thorax laterally 

 and beneath, and four anterior coxae lemon-yellow ; antenna?, ex- 

 cept scape and posterior tarsi, black ; wings hyaline, with fuliginous 

 spot at tip of marginal cell, nervures and stigma black; apex of 

 abdomen more or less dusky ; form long, slender; antenna? as long 

 as body, slender, filiform, joints short, the sutures not very dis- 

 tinct ; mesothorax trilobate in front ; metathorax with a sharply- 

 defined arcuate carina across the middle ; wings ample ; legsratlier 

 robust ; abdomen same shape in both sexes, long, slender, and 

 clavate, subpetiolate, first segment more than twice longer than 

 wide, sides parallel, surface above even, smooth, and polished ; 

 ovipositor of 9 rather longer than first segment of abdomen. 

 Length 5-6i lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 7T.) 



3. Theronia mellosa, n. sp. 



% 9. Honej^ -yellow, smooth and shining ; face, thorax laterally 

 and beneath, and base of four anterior legs, more conspicuous in 

 % , lemon-ja^llow ; tips of mandibles, antennje except base beneath, 

 sometimes the basal margin of metathorax, tii)s of posterior tarsi 

 and the ovipositor black; wings hyaline, with a rather small, 

 rounded, black spot at tip of marginal cell, nervures and stigma 

 black ; in some specimens the second, third, and fourth segments 

 of abdomen have blackish stains at base; form more slender than 

 usual; antenna? as long as body, filiform, joint 3 longer than 4, 

 sutures not very distinct; mesothorax su])trilobed in front; meta- 

 thorax smooth, polished, Avith a sharply-defined arcuate carina 

 across the middle; wings ample; legs slender, posterior pair 

 robust; abdomen subpetiolate, smooth, polished, fusiform or cla- 

 vate in 9, long, cylindrical in t , first segment more than twice 

 longer than broad, sometimes sliglitly narrowed at base, with two 

 central longitudinal carinae ; ovipositor slender, longer than first 

 segment of abdomen. Length 4-5 lines. 



Orizaba; Cordova. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 397 



4. Theronia Tacubaya, n. sp. 



S ?. Lemon-yellow, shining; tips of mandibles, spot on each 

 side of ocelli, posterior margin of occiput, antenna above, three 

 lines on mesothorax, sutures of thorax, middle or whole of trans- 

 verse carina on metathorax, sometimes one or two lines down the 

 middle of posterior slope, a line on posterior coxpe beliind, some- 

 times obsolete, a line on all the femora, and sometimes on tibite 

 within, posterior tarsi of S, three lines on disk of first abdominal 

 segment, sometimes confluent, and broad basal margins of remaining 

 segments, narrow on apical ones, black or brown-black ; antennae 

 beneath reddish-brown, paler at base, scape yellow beneath, the 

 extreme apical joint fulvous ; wings yellowish-hyaline, with a 

 golden reflection, apical margins faintly dusky ; nervures and 

 stigma fulvous ; posterior tibia? of Z and tarsi of 9 more or less 

 dusky ; ovipositor brownish, paler at base ; antenna? about as long 

 as body, filiform, basal joints short and indistinctly defined ; meso- 

 thorax slightly trilobed, more prominently so in "J, ; metathorax 

 rounded, sloping gradually to apex, basal middle sulcate with a 

 8trongl3'-developed transverse, somewhat arcuate, acute carina on 

 disk, sometimes abbreviated ; areolet quadrangular, oblique ; legs 

 subrobust ; abdomen oblong ovate in 9 , longer and narrower in % , 

 subsessile, subdepressed ; first segment twice longer than wide, 

 sides parallel, flattened above, with two elevated longitudinal 

 medial lines, less developed in % ; ovipositor of 9 nearly as long 

 as abdomen. Length 4-6 lilies. 



Orizaba; Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 65.) Common. Varies 

 much in size, and the markings vary from pale-brown to black. 



5. Theronia consimilis. 



Pimpla consimilis, Cress., Proc. Ent. Soc. Phil., iv. p. 37. 



Orizaba; Cordova; Mirador. (Sumichrast, Nos. 49, 64.) This 

 common species occurs also in Cuba, and is closely allied to Tacu- 

 baya; it is, however, more shining, with the metathorax always 

 immaculate except basal suture, and the wings are differently 

 colored, having a conspicuous dark spot at tip of marginal cell. 

 It varies in length from 3^-5^ lines. 



Genus PIMPLA, Fabr. 

 1. Fimpla caeruleata, n. sp. 



9. Brilliant steel-blue, changing to purple in certain lights; 

 antennae, tarsi, and sheaths of ovipositor dull black ; tips of an- 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



teiior femora and their til)ije whitisli in front; wings fuliginous, 

 with a brilliant purple reflection, changing to golden in certain 

 lights, nervures and stigma black ; antennie as long as the bod^', 

 slender, thread-like, third joint very long, longer th.an the two 

 following ; mesothorax opaque ; metathorax transversely striated 

 above, scarcely so on the sides ; first segment of abdomen angular 

 when viewed in profile, the basal half with a sharp ridge on each 

 side, apical half flattened, the sides not raised ; sculpture very 

 fine and dense, apex smooth and shining; ovipositor about half 

 the length of abdomen. Length 8-9 lines. 



%. Of a brighter blue than the ?, and without any purplish 

 reflection ; palpi white ; third joint of antennae not as long as the 

 two following; mesothorax shining, sometimes slightly longitudi- 

 nall}' impressed on each side anteriorly; metathorax more finely 

 striated than the 9, sometimes obsoletely so; wings hyaline, iri- 

 descent, more or less smoky at tips ; anterior coxaj in front, their 

 trochanters, their femora in front, most of their tibiie and tarsi, 

 the intermediate femora at tips, and their tibiae in front, whitish ; 

 abdomen more linear than that of the 9, more shining, the first 

 segment scarcely angular in profile, and the lateral and apical 

 submargins of the segments much more deeplj' impressed. Length 

 4^-8 lines. 



Orizaba ; Cordova. This may prove identical with P. caerulea 

 Brulld, from Brazil. 



2. Pimpla croceipes, n. sp. 



% 9 . Black, shining, more so in the % ; palpi, base of antennae 

 beneath, and tegulae of ^, and scutellum, yellow ; antennae brown, 

 I);ili'r at base and beneath, especially so in 9; legs orange-yellow, 

 paler at base, posterior coxae and tips of all the tarsi black ; 

 wings hyaline, iridescent, nervures and stigma black ; antennae 

 nearly as long as the body, slender, thread-like, third joint as long 

 as the two following; mesothorax feebly sculptured, slightly im- 

 pressed longitudinally; metathorax finely striated transversely, 

 smooth at base, pubescent on the sides ; basal segment of abdomen 

 as in caeruleata; ovipositor of 9 about half the length of the ab- 

 domen. Length 3-5 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 50.) A very common species. 



3. Pimpla punicipes, n. sp. 



9. Dji'P black, opaque ; antennni fuscou:s ; legs entirely dark 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



honey-yellow except tarsi, which are dusky; wings hyaline, iri- 

 descent, base of stigma pale; niesothorax shining; raetatliorax 

 finely transversely aciculate, the apex truncate, smooth and 

 shining; abdomen densely punctured, the apical margin of seg- 

 ments smooth, shining, and paler. Length 3^ lines. 

 Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 102.) 



4. Pimpla feralis, n. sp. 



% . Differs from punicipes only by the posterior tibiae and tarsi 

 being blackish, the former having a white annulus near base ; the 

 metatliorax not transversely aciculate, and the abdomen uniformly 

 very densely and finely sculptured, the apical margin of the seg- 

 ments not shining. Length 2|^-3j lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 115.) 



5. Pimpla crassicauda, n. sp. 



9. Head, prothorax, and metathorax black: abdomen fuscous, 

 the middle segments paler; mesothorax, scutellums, pleura, and 

 flanks of metathorax honey-yellow ; antennoe pale fuscous, whitish 

 at base beneath ;tegul8e, line before, and most of legs white, pos- 

 terior coxae and femora yellow ; wings hyaline, iridescent ; shining; 

 abdomen subsessile, rather broad, punctured, the segments with 

 a slight lateral swelling above; ovipositor nearly as long as body, 

 sheaths black and incrassate. Length 4 lines. 



Orizaba. 



6. Pimpla albipes, n. sp. 



9 Head black, pubescent, palpi white, antennae black above, 

 brownish beneath, scape whitish beneath; thorax bright honey- 

 yellow, smooth and polished, the prothorax more or less, scutollar 

 region, and the metathorax or sometimes its base only, black ; 

 tegular and spot or line before, white; wings hyaline, iridescent, 

 stigma luteous ; legs white, extreme base and apex of posterior 

 tibiae, and tips of all the tarsi, dusky, sometimes the posterior 

 coxae and femora are pale honey-yellow; abdomen reddish-brown, 

 or obscure luteous, the first segment and apical margin of 

 remaining segments more or less black; ovipositor black. An- 

 tennas as long as abdomen, setaceous ; metathorax perfectly 

 smooth, polished, and rounded ; areolet of anterior wing triangular, 

 somewhat oblique; legs long and slender; abdomen elongate, 

 robust, strongly punctured, shining, first segment impunctured, 

 quadrate, excavate at base, remaining segments transverse, sub- 




400 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



quadrate, the disk transversely elevated ; ovipositor as long as 

 abdomen, exserted from the extreme tip, robust, sheaths densely 

 l)ilose. Length 3 lines. 

 Orizaba. 



7. Pimpla semisanguinea, n. sp. 



J. IJlack; clypeus brown, the base and apex, and also the 

 palpi, pale yellow; anteniife l)rown-black, paler at base beneath; 

 basal half of tegulge, elevated spot beneath, scutelhun and post- 

 scutellum, the four anterior coxae and trochanters, a spot at the 

 base of the posterior coxae, pale yellow ; thorax clothed with a 

 very short, fine, pale, sericeous pile, especially dense on the sides 

 of the metathorax; wings h3^aline, nervures and stigma brownish ; 

 legs yellowish-fulvous, the posterior pair somewhat ferruginous ; 

 abdomen dull ferruginous, ovipositor black. Clypeus transversely 

 excavated, eyes large; antennae as long as the body, slender, 

 thread-like; metathorax transversel}^ striated, abruptly truncated 

 behind; abdomen finely granulated, smoother at apex; ovipositor 

 about half the length of the abdomen. Length ^f lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 33.) 



8. Pimpla Sumiclirasti, n. sp. 



9. Lemon-yellow; tips of mandibles and spot on each side of 

 ocelli, antennae, except scape beneath, three broad lines on meso- 

 thorax, base and apex of scutellum, apex of postscutellum, a nai*- 

 row undulate line at base of metathorax, and a large spot on its 

 posterior face, wedge-shaped mark on four posterior coxae, tips of 

 posterior tibiae and of all the tarsi, transverse spot near base of 

 first segment, its extreme apical margin, basal margin of second 

 and three following segments, broad on the second and third and 

 very narrow on the fifth, the sixth and seventh segments entirel}-, 

 except the extreme sides, and the ovipositor and sheaths, black ; 

 legs tinged with fulvous, middle of posterior femora, and tips of 

 intermediate tibiae within, stained with fuscous ; wings 3'ellowish- 

 hyaline, with a large violaceous-black macula at tip of marginal 

 cell, nervures and stigma fulvous. Anteiinai long, slender, thread- 

 like, basal joints of flagellum ver}' long; mesothorax slightly tri- 

 lobed ; metatiiorax striated across the middle, smooth at base, 

 abruptly truncated at tip ; wings ample, areolet triangular ; legs 

 robust ; abdomen of the usual form, sessile, depressed, closely 

 and deepl}' punctured, first segment, base of second, and the two 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF niTLADELPIIIA. 401 



apical segments smooth and polished, the former excavated at 

 base ; ovipositor about half the length of the body. Lengtli 1^ 

 lines. 



Cordova. This is an elegant species, with the apical spots at 

 tip of anterior wings very conspicuous and brilliant. 



9. Pimpla azteca, n. sp. 



9. Honey-yellow, abdomen tinged with ferrnginous ; face, 

 thorax beneatli, and base of anterior legs yellow ; antennte black, 

 yellowish at base beneath ; mandibles at tips, narrow basal and 

 apical margins of metathorax, tips of four anterior tarsi, and the 

 posterior pair except extreme base, basal margin of second, third, 

 and fourth segments of abdomen more or less, and the ovipositor, 

 black ; wings hyaline, with a large black spot at tip of anterior 

 pair, nervures and stigma black. . Antennte as long as body, 

 slender, setaceous, with joint 3 as long as 4 and 5 together; 

 mesothorax subtrilobed, smooth and shining; metathorax smooth 

 and rounded; abdomen smooth and shining, elongate, fusiform, 

 with lateral blister-like elevations on segments 2-5, first segment 

 a little longer than broad. Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 66.) 



10. Pimpla marginipennis, n. sp. 



9. Bright lemon-yellow; tips of mandibles, antennae except 

 scape beneath, three stripes on mesothorax, anterior suture of 

 pleura, basal suture of metathorax, spot at extreme apex, inter- 

 mediate tarsi except basal joint, posterior pair except base of first 

 joint, narrow basal margins of abdominal segments 1-5 and 

 apical margin of first segment, all black or blackish ; mesothorax 

 polished; metathorax smooth, rounded above and polished; 

 wings golden-hyaline, apex broadlj^ fuliginous, slightly paler at 

 extreme tip, nervures and stigma black; legs robust, abdomen 

 impunctured ; ovipositor as long as first and second segments, 

 piceous, sheaths black. Length 6 lines. 



Cordova. 



11. Pimpla zonata, n. sp. 



9. Brown-black; head except stripe on vertex between sum- 

 mit of eyes, anotlier behind on occiput, scajjc beneatli, prothorax, 

 four stripes on mesothorax, teguhe, base of scutellum, postsou- 

 tellum, pleura, two large triangular marks on metathorax, flanks, 

 most of legs, base and apex of first abdominal segment, and narrow 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



apical margins of remaining segments, dilated laterally', briglit 

 lemon-3'ello\v; wings li3-aline, costa broadly fuscous, stigma pale 

 honey -yellow; flagellura with a pale fulvous annulus near base; 

 line on femora beneath, and another on postei'ior coxte fuscous ; 

 narrow apical margin of second and lateral margin of three fol- 

 lowing segments black. Opaque; antennse slender, filiform; 

 mesothorax trilobate, the middle lobe channelled mediall^'^ ; scu- 

 tellum flattened ; metathorax short, smooth, rounded; wings long, 

 areolet elongate, irregularly quadrangular; legs rather short and 

 subrobust; abdomen subpetiolate, clavate, first segment smooth, 

 channelled centrally', remaining segments densely punctured, with 

 a subapical transverse ridge on second, third, and fourth segments. 

 Length 6^-8 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 101.) 



12. Pimpla zapoteca, n. sp. 



'h 9 Lemon-yellow; antennse dull testaceous, brown at base 

 above and at tips, scape yellow beneatli ; occiput, spot behind 

 insertion of antennae, confluent with another inclosing ocelli, black; 

 three broad lines on mesothorax, its lateral and posterior sutures, 

 the abrupt sides of scutellum, sutures of pleura, confluent with a 

 line beneath the tegulfe, basal sutures of metathorax, confluent 

 with two medial, longitudinal lines, which are again confluent 

 posteriorly, line on posterior coxae exteriorly, medial line on first 

 segment of abdomen, contracted in the middle, and the remaining 

 segments above, except their apical margins, black ; the apical 

 3'ellow margin of the third segment is much broader than in an3'- 

 of the others, while that on fourth and remaining segments is very 

 narrow, and almost obsolete on the last segment ; posterior femora 

 above, their tibiae at base and apex and the tips of all the tarsi, 

 fuscous ; wings yellowish-liyaline, nervures and stigma orange- 

 yellow; ovipositor blackish. Antenuiie about as long as the body, 

 slender; thorax densel3' punctured; base of metathorax with two 

 short, elevated, longitudinal lines at base ; abdomen sliglitly 

 thickened posteriorly, densel3' and rather roughly sculptured, the 

 segments contracted at base, first segment with two elevated, 

 longitudinal carinsx* ; ovipositor about one-third the length of the 

 abdomen. Ijcngth 4j-6 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 53.) 



13. Fimpla'? chichimeca, n. sp. 



1. Lemon-yellow, thinly pubescent; tips of mandibles, line 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



across vertex, inclosing ocelli, posterior margin of occiput, sutures 

 of thorax above and beneath, three broad lines on raesothorax, tip 

 of scutellum, an elongate conical spot on middle of motatliorax, 

 sides of posterior coxae, the femora beliind, base of first segment 

 of abdomen, and the remaining segments except apical submar- 

 gins, brown or brown-black, extreme apical margins of the seg- 

 ments black; antennae also brown with a broad, indistinctly defined 

 testaceous annulus before the middle, the scape yellow beneath; 

 wings hyaline, fiiintly yellowish, iridescent, nervures and stigma 

 orange-yellow. Eyes large, face small, base of clypeus arcuate, 

 its tip emarginate ; antennae rather stout, rather more than half 

 the length of the body, basal joints of flagellum short and sub- 

 equal ; mesothorax prominently trilobed, the central lobe grooved 

 down the middle, metathorax rounded, sloping to the base; 

 smooth and shining, with long, blackish pubescence on the sides ; 

 legs subrobust ; areolet of anterior wings subrhomboidal, more 

 longitudinal than usual in Pimpla; abdomen subpetiolate, the first 

 segment nearly as long as tlie two following, and much narrower, 

 parallel on the sides, with two elevated longitudinal lines, strongly 

 divergent at base ; second segment about as wide at base as the 

 apex of the first segment, gradually dilated posteriorly, remaining 

 segments strongly transverse ; second and following segments 

 densely sculptured, contracted at base and clothed with a black 

 pubescence, which is longer on the sides. Length 4-5^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 81.) Much like zapofeca in orna- 

 mentation, but very different in form. 



14. Pimpla ichneumoniformis, n. sp. 



%. Black, thinl}"^ pubescent; antennae flavo-testaceons, dusky 

 at tips ; tegulae, spot beneath, obscure stains on sides of metatho- 

 rax, four anterior legs in front, tips of posterior femora obscurely', 

 obscure stains on sides of first three abdominal segments, and 

 narrow apical margins of all the segments, more or less obsolete, 

 obscure honey -yellow; wings hyaline, tinged with yellow, espe- 

 cially along the costa, nervures and stigma honey-yellow ; thorax 

 opaque, tip of abdomen shining. Form elongate, slender; head 

 transversely compressed, eyes large, clypeus concave ; antennae 

 two-thirds as long as body, slender, filiform, joints distinct, the 

 third not quite as long as fourth and fifth togetiier; mesothorax 

 convex, finely shagreened; scutellum subconvex; metathorax 

 rounded, transversely striated, the extreme tip smooth and shin- 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



iiig; -wings long, narrow, areolet small, triangular, subpetiolate, 

 receiving the recurrent nervure at the tip; legs slender, claws 

 long, hooked, simple; abdomen long, subpetiolate, closelj^ and 

 rather finely punctured, first segment more than twice longer than 

 broad, sides parallel and carinate, base excavate; second segment 

 subtriangular, basal foveje large, oblique. Length 6^ lines. 



Orizaba. Considerably like certain species of Ichneumon in 

 form of body. 



15. Pimpla T pulcherrima, n. sp. 



9._Deep black, shining; clypeus, palpi, tegulre, legs (except 

 coxffi, four posterior trochanters, tips of posterior tibife and their 

 tarsi entirely), and first four segments of abdomen, bright lemon- 

 yellow ; wings yellow-hyaline, with a broad black fascia beneath 

 stigma and another paler band at tip of both pairs ; stigma black, 

 nervures j-ellow Avhere not covered by the black bands. Antennae 

 lono-er than head and thorax, filiform ; thorax smooth and polished, 

 mesothorax trilobed in front ; metathorax smooth and rounded ; 

 wings ample, areolet large, subtriangular, receiving the recurrent 

 nervure at the tip; legs short, subrobust, tarsi shorter than tibije, 

 tibial spurs short and robust, posterior femora with a short ))lunt 

 tooth beneath, midway between base and apex; abdomen elongate, 

 convex, sessile, upper surface very uneven, each segment, except 

 first, with a blister-like elevation on each side, transverse, first 

 segment equilateral, deeply excavated at base ; ovipositor as long 

 as abdomen, sheaths pubescent. Length 65 lines. 



Cordova. A very handsome and anomalous insect. Readily 

 distinguished by the beautifully banded wings, and toothed poste- 

 rior femora. 



16. Pimpla braconoides, n. sp. 



9 . Yellow-ferruginous ; head, antennje, collar, and legs black ; 

 wings yellowish-fuscous, darker at apex. Smooth and shining; 

 abdomen subsessile, first segment with two prominent longitudinal 

 carinje, the remaining segments with two prominent transverse 

 folds on each; legs short, robust; wings ample, areolet small, 

 petiolated. Length 4| lines. 



Orizaba. This has very much the general appearance of certain 

 species of Bracon. 



17. Pimpla atriceps, n. sp. 



% .Bright honey-yellow, shining ; head, antennse, collar, an- 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



terior margin of prothorax, tips of posterior coxae, their tro- 

 chanters, anterior femora behind, tips of four posterior femora, 

 tips of their tibiae, and their tarsi entirely blaclc ; palpi, four an- 

 terior coxae and trochanters white; wings fuliginous, iridescent, 

 nervures and stigma brown ; head transverse, pubescent, face 

 polished, clypeus flat, ocelli prominent ; antennae filiform, as long 

 as abdomen, thorax smooth and polished, mesothorax subtrilobed 

 in front ; metathorax perfectly smooth ; areolet of wings small, 

 triangular, subpetiolated ; legs short, rather slender, tibial spurs 

 short and robust, claws long, slender, simple; abdomen elongate- 

 ovate, sessile, depressed, shining, second and following segments 

 transverse, with a medial, subtriangular, blister-like elevation, the 

 apical margin also elevated ; first segment narrowed at base with 

 two sharply-defined carinae on the disk, base excavate. Length 

 3 lines. 

 Cordova. 



Genus GLYPTA, Grav. 



1. Glypta longula, n. sp. 



9 Black, shining; clypeus, mouth, upper margin of prothorax, 



and tips of scutellums white ; pleura and scutellum reddish ; meso- 

 thorax strongly tinged with reddish; wings hyaline, iridescent ; 

 legs white, posterior coxae within and at tips beneath, spot at base 

 of their trochanters, tips of four posterior femora and tibiae, spot 

 near base of the latter, their tarsi, except base of first three 

 joints, line on posterior femora beneath and tips of anterior tarsi, 

 black ; form long, subcylindrical, closely punctured ; antennae as 

 long as body and slender; mesothorax strongly trilobed ; meta- 

 thorax shining, with two sharply-defined transverse carina?; 

 abdomen closely and strongly punctured, the oblique lines deeply 

 impressed ; ovipositor half the length of abdomen. Length 3^ 

 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 88.) 



2. Glypta albopicta, n. sp. 



%. Black, shining; clypeus, mouth, scape beneath, collar, 

 margins of prothorax, pleura, except spot beneath wings and 

 sutures, tegulae. short line beneath, scutellum, flanks of metathorax, 

 an uneven longitudinal line on each side above, four anterior 

 coxae, all the trochanters, lateral margin of first abdominal seg- 

 ment, and two spots on the lateral margin of the second, third. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and fourth segments all white ; mesothorax red, middle lobe black; 

 wings h3aline, iridescent; legs honey-yellow, intermediate tro- 

 chanters at base and apex of their tibiie, apex of intermediate 

 tibiiie and all the tarsi blackish, tibial spurs and middle of pos- 

 terior tibifE whitish ; form long and slender; antennae nearly as 

 long as body; mesothorax strongly trilobed, smooth and shining ; 

 scutellum convex; metathorax with sharply-defined elevated lines; 

 leos slender; abdomen nearly three times the length of head and 

 thorax,ratherthicklypunctured, the oblique lines deeply impressed. 



Length 4-5^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Suraichrast, No. 150.) 



3. Glypta decolorata, n. sp. 



%. Smooth and shining ; ferruginous ; head, spot on prothorax 

 above, another on posterior margin, lateral region of scutellum, 

 central stripe of metathorax dilated at tip, and base and apex of first 

 abdominal segment black; clypeus, mandibles, spot above, palpi, 

 line on collar, tegulje, line before, apex and lateral margin of scu- 

 tellum, postscutellum, ovate spot on side of pleura, and the legs 

 whitish; tips of tarsal joints blackish; antennae fuscous; wings 

 hyaline. Length 4^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 119.) 



Genus LYCORINA, Holmgren. 



Before seeing Holmgren's descri])tion of this genus I had 

 referred (in MS.) the species described below to a new genus which 

 I had named Toxophoroides, from the resemblance in form to the 

 Dipterous genus Toxophora. Not feeling sure tluit the species 

 in question belongs to Lycorina, I add a description of the form 

 and sculpture. 



Head subtransverse ; clypeus small; face flat ; eyes large, ovate; 

 ocelli large, prominent ; occiput and cheeks flat; antennae long, 

 slender, filiform ; thorax short, robust, gibbous ; mesothorax long, 

 subconvex ; scutellum protuberant, convex ; metathorax very short, 

 abrupt behind ; prothorax and pleura excavated ; wings without 

 areolet; legs slender, ungues cleft; abdomen sessile, depressed, 

 first segment longer than broad, remaining segments transverse, 

 second, third, and fourth with a median, triangular-shaped, deeply 

 impressed line inclosing a smooth, convex, triangular space; ovi- 

 positor long, exserted from extreme ti[) of abdomen. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Lycorina? apicalis, n. sp. 



9 . Lemon-yellow, clothed with a short, thin, fine, pale pubes- 

 cence ; spot inclosing ocelli, posterior margin of occiput, antennae 

 except base beneath, tliree stripes on mesothorax, the middle 

 one abbreviated behind, the others confluent behind, a sutural line 

 on each side of pleura anteriorly, dilated above and beneath, a 

 spot beneath posterior wing, a line at base of metathorax, dilated 

 on each side, large mark on outside of posterior coxae, their tro- 

 chanters, exteriorly, tips of their tarsi, an oblique spot on each 

 side of the first four segments of abdomen, almost confluent, those 

 on the first segment situate in the middle, the remainder at the 

 base, and the ovipositor black ; wings hyaline, iridescent, a fuscous 

 spot at tip of anterior pair ; legs and apex of abdomen tinged 

 with fulvous ; antennae as long as body; thorax and abdomen with 

 deep punctures ; ovipositor two-thirds the length of abdomen. 

 Length Splines. 



Cordova. A beautiful insect. Shorter and more robust than 

 Ghjpta, with the sculpture of the abdomen similar. 



Genus LAMPRONOTA, Curtis. 



1. Lampronota mexicana, n. sp. 



9. Head, antennae, pro-, meso-, and metathorax above black; 

 annulus on antennae white ; sides of face, mouth, anterior orbits, 

 cheeks, collar, two lines on mesothorax hooked anteriorly, tegulae, 

 spot beneath, scutellum, anterior coxae, and spot on pleura before 

 middle coxjie yellowish ; pleura, sides and tip of metathorax, legs, 

 and more or less of abdomen pale ferruginous or honey -yellow ; 

 posterior coxae with a black spot behind ; first and second seg- 

 ment of abdomen above, and narrow apical margins of third and 

 fourth segments, sometimes only the first, black; wings hyaline, 

 nervures brown. Opaque, areolet large, subtriangular ; claws pec- 

 tinate. Length 7^ lines. 



%. Antennae very long and slender, entirely black ; head, pro- 

 thorax, pleura, metathorax, and legs pale lemon-yellow; meta- 

 thorax with a black spot above ; posterior tarsi blackish; abdomen 

 subcylindrical, black, with base of second, third, and fourth seg- 

 ments pale. Length 8 lines. 



Orizaba. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



2. Lampronota azteca, n. sp. 



9. Dull luteous; head, antennae, pro- and raesothorax, scutellar 

 region, and most of abdomen above black ; face, mouth, orbits, line 

 on collar, discal spots on mesothora^, two spots in front, scu- 

 tellums, and base of first and second abdominal segments, soiled 

 white ; annulus on antennse and broad apical margins of abdominal 

 segments white; wings h3'aline; four anterior tarsi dusky, pos- 

 terior pair pale yellow ; shining, slender ; metathorax with a trans- 

 verse carina behind middle, prominent on each side ; abdomen 

 narrow, subpetiolate, subcylindrical ; areolet moderate, triangular, 

 subpetiolate ; claws pectinate. Length 5^ lines. 



Orizaba. 



3. Lampronota bella, n. ?p. 



Lemon-yellow (most of antennae and apical half of abdomen 

 wanting) ; spot covering ocelli and middle of occiput, antennae, 

 except scape beneath, three short broad stripes on mesothorax, the 

 middle one abbreviated behind, the lateral one before, scutellar 

 resion, two triangular marks at base of metathorax confluent on 

 basal middle and extending down on each side to middle coxj>?, 

 large spot on posterior coxa?, base of their trochanters, middle of 

 first abdominal segment, and broad basal margin of remaining 

 segments black ; posterior femora and tibiae tinged with honey- 

 yellow ; wings hj^aline, iridescent, nervures pale ; shining, slender; 

 areolet small, petiolate, triangular; claws pectinate. Length, say 

 3i-4 lines. 



Cordova. (Sumichrast, No. 143.) 



4. Lampronota orbitalis, n sp. 



9 . Head black ; orbits interrupted behind, face, except a central 

 stripe and lobed spot beneath each antenna, cl^^peus, and mouth 

 yellowish-white ;antennje black ; mesothorax hone3'-ycllow, polished, 

 a yellowish-white line on each side before tcguh\i, dilated anteriorlj'; 

 prothorax black, margined with 3'ellowish-white; scutellum honey- 

 yellow, a yellowish-white spot on each side, the lateral region 

 black; metathorax black, flanks yellowish-white; pleura hone3'- 

 yellow, a large mark on each side, tegulae, and a line beneath, 

 yellowish-white; wings hyaline, iridescent ; legs whitish, femora 

 and tibiffi tinged with luteous; stripe on outside of four posterior 

 coxae, posterior pair within, extreme base of the four posterior 

 trochanters and of their femora, tips of their tibiai, and of their 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



tarsi, black ; abdomen black, shining, segments 2-5, tinged later- 

 ally with brownish, apical margins of segments narrowly yellowish ; 

 ovipositor black. Form slender, cylindrical; autennaa as long as 

 body, setaceous ; mesothorax smooth and polished ; metathorax 

 transversely rugulose ; anterior wing without areolet ; legs long 

 and slender, claws pectinate ; abdomen subcyliudrical, smooth 

 and polished, surface even ; ovipositor as long as body, very 

 slender. Length 2| lines. 

 Orizaba. 



5. LampronotaT jucunda, n. sp. 



9 . Head, antenmie, and thorax black ; face, except central dot, 

 mouth, orbits, annulus on antennne, collar, tegulae, spot beneath, 

 lunate spot on disk of mesothorax, scutellum, spot behind, large 

 spot on side of pleura, spot on flank of metathorax, two small 

 spots at base, connected laterally with a band near apex, anterior 

 coxse, spot on two posterior pairs, base of first segment, and 

 narrow apical margin of first and second segments white; middle 

 of first and second segments, and dot on each side of third seg- 

 ment black ; legs and remainder of abdomen pale ferruginous ; 

 wings h^^aline ; opaque ; abdomen subsessile ; anterior wing with- 

 out areolet ; claws petinate. Length 5 lines. 



Orizaba. 



Genus MENISCUS, Schiodte. 



1. Meniscus crassitarsus, n. sp. 



9. Black, shining; orbits, face, except central black stripe, 

 clypeus, mandibles, except tips, broad annulus on antennae, line 

 on each side of mesothorax, before tegulae, dilated anteriorl}^, two 

 spots on the disk ; sometimes confluent, spot beneath teguloe, scu- 

 tellum except extreme apex, metathorax except a large transverse 

 medial black mark, a large oblique mark on each side of pleura 

 extending beneath, an oblique line beneath posterior wing, coxae 

 and trochanters, base of first segment of abdomen, apical margins 

 of all the segments, broad on the second and third, and uneven, 

 subinterrupted bands on the middle of apical segments, white or 

 yellowish-white ; wings h3^aline, subiridesceut, apex faintly dusky, 

 nervures and stigma black ; stripe on four posterior coxas and 

 trochanters behind, intermediate femora above, posterior pair 

 entirely, tips of four anterior tibiae, and the four anterior tarsi 

 '21 




410 PROCEEDIN'GS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



entirel}^ black, rest of legs yellow. Middle of face protuberant ; 

 antennae as long or longer than bod}', slender, tapering much at 

 apex ; niesothorax smooth and polished, closely punctured in 

 front; scutellum convex, punctured ; metathorax rugose, coarsely 

 and transversely so on disk; wings narrow, anterior pair without 

 areolet ; legs rather slender, tarsi incrassate, much flattened, claws 

 pectinate ; abdomen smooth and polished, depressed at base, sub- 

 compressed at tip ; ovipositor about one-third as long as abdomen, 

 compressed and sword-shaped, sheaths slender, pubescent, dilated 

 at tips. Length 4^-5 lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 63.) 



2. Meniscus mexicanus, n. sp. 



9 Diflers from crassitarsus as follows: The antennae are 



longer; the upper margin of prothorax is white, a large quadrate 

 whitish spot on disk of mesothorax ; metathorax black, with a 

 triangular mark on basal middle, the apex and flanks whitish ; 

 mesothorax uniforml}', closely punctured ; apex of wings dusky ; 

 legs yellow, spot at base of four posterior coxae, the posterior pair 

 within, stripe on four anterior femora behind, the posterior pair 

 except base before, tips of their tibi, and the four anterior tarsi 

 more or less, black; all the tarsi slender; claws pectinate; abdo- 

 men obscure yellowish-white, first segment, except base which is 

 whitish and extends down the middle for a short distance, the 

 second segment, except a large square mark on basal middle and 

 the apical margin, and a fascia across middle of third segment, 

 margining the sides anteriorly, black ; apical segments more or 

 less stained with dusky ; ovipositor shorter and less robust. 

 Length 5^ lines. 



Cordova. 



3. Meniscus? alternatus, n. sp. 



. Lemon-3'ellow, opaque, abdomen shining; spot on vertex, 

 covering ocelli and extending to base of antenna^, occiput, the 

 antennw, except scape beneath and very narrow annulus on fla- 

 gelluui, medial transverse line on prothorax, three longitudinal 

 lines on mesothorax, the medial one broad and entire, the others 

 abbreviated before, tip of scutellum, postscutellum, scutellar 

 region, basal suture of metathorax, a transverse medial band, the 

 extreme apex, a curved line on pleura anteriorly, a medial spot on 

 each side, spot on outside of middle coxae, the posterior pair 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



behind, their femora, tips of their tibiae, extreme tips of all the 

 tarsi, broad band on middle of first abdominal segment, and the 

 four following segments above, except broad apical margin, black ; 

 legs tinged with orange; wings j'ellowish-hyaline, faintly duskj^ 

 at tips, nervures and stigma honey-yellow. Antennae as long as 

 body and verj'- slender ; middle of face protuberant ; thorax finely 

 gx'anulated ; scutellum convex; metathorax rugulose; legs slender; 

 claws pectinate ; abdomen shining, delicately and closely punc- 

 tured, stigmatic tubercles prominent. Length 4-5^ lines. 

 Cordova. 



4. Meniscus 1 orbitalis, n. sp. 



9. Black; orbits, cl3'peus, spot on mandibles, annulus on 

 antennae, line on collar, slender furcate mark on mesothorax, tegulae, 

 spot beneath, scutellum, spot behind, spot on flanks of metathorax, 

 double spot above, large irregular mark on pleura, posterior tarsi 

 except base and apex, anterior coxae, spot at base of two posterior 

 pairs, base of first abdominal segment, apical margin of all the 

 segments, ver}'^ slender on fourth, pale lemon-yellow ; legs and 

 apex of abdomen beneath ferruginous; tips of four anterior tarsi, 

 tips of posterior trochanters, tips of their tibiae and base and apex 

 of their tarsi black ; wings h3^aline, iridescent. Opaque ; areolet 

 wanting; claws simple. Length 4-5^ lines. 

 Cordova. 



Genus PHYTODIETUS, Grav. 



1. Phytodietus gracilicornis, n. sp. 



% 9 Lemon-yellow, smooth and polished ; spot on vertex, 



covering ocelli, and confluent with a spot on occiput, antennae, 

 except scape beneath and broad annulus on flagellum, middle of 

 prothorax, dilated laterally, mesothorax, except two spots in front 

 and a square one on the disk, scutellar region, base of metathorax 

 irregularly, and dilated on each side above, two dots on extreme 

 apex in 9, mark beneath anterior wing, spot beneath posterior 

 wing and pleura beneath, except two medial lines in 9, line on 

 outside of posterior coxae, line on four anterior femora beneath in 

 9, the posterior pair except base and apex in 9, only a line above 

 in %, tips of tarsi, and abdomen above except rather broad ajiical 

 margins, black; femora, tibia?, and four anterior tarsi pale honey- 

 yellow; wings yellowish-hyaline, iridescent, nervures and stigma 




412 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



pale testaceous. Antennae longer than body, slender; mesotborax 

 trilobed in front ; scutellum subconvex ; metathorax smooth and 

 rounded ; wings ample, areolet small, triangular, petiolated ; legs 

 slender, claws pectinate; abdomen smooth and polished; ovi- 

 positor as long as abdomen. Length 4-4^ lines. 

 Cordova; Orizaba. 



2. FhytodietUB mezicanus, n. sp. 



9 . Pale lemon-yellow, opaque ; spot covering ocelli, line across 

 occiput from eye to eye, narrow stripe on middle of face, spot 

 beneath ej-e, base and apex of mandibles, palpi, four basal joints 

 of antennae, except scape beneath, line on collar, another on pro- 

 thorax, three broad stripes on mesothorax, base of and medial 

 stripe on scutellum, basal suture of metathorax, a central stripe 

 dilated behind, broad anterior suture of pleura, a zigzag mark on 

 each side, spot or stripe on coxae behind, trochanters above, a line 

 on femora above, basal two-thirds of first segment of abdomen, 

 basal half of second and third, and narrow basal margins of 

 remaining segments, all black; joints 5-8 of antennae 3'ellow, the 

 9th and following joints ferruginous, dusk}' at tips; wings yellow- 

 hyaline, costa broadly pale fuscous, nervures and stigma honey- 

 jellow ; four posterior tibiae fuscous, with a broad medial 3'ellow- 

 ish annulus ; ovipositor yellowish. Head transversely compressed, 

 face long, broad ; clypeus excavated at tip ; antennae as long as 

 bod}', slender, attenuated at tips; mesothorax trilobed in front; 

 metathorax rounded, finely transversel}' striated; wings narrow, 

 areolet small, oblique, petiolated ; legs slender, tibia subspinose, 

 claws pectinate ; abdomen subpetiolated, apex subcompressed ; 

 ovipositor nearly as long as abdomen. Length 5 lines. 



Cordova. 



Genus LABEXA, Cresson. 



Labena gloriosa, n. sp. 



9. YelloAv, smooth, shining; antenniv, except scape, black, 

 brown beneath; mandibles blackish at tips; mesothorax with 

 three brownish stripes; bastd suture of metathorax and stain on 

 pleura beneath wings, blackish ; wings hyaline, faintl}' tinged with 

 yellowish, a round, purple-black si)ot at tip of marginal cell, 

 nervures and stigma black; legs tinged with honey-yellow; basal 

 suture of second and tliree following secrments black, the fifth and 

 remaining tinged with honey-yellow; ovipositor black, slieatlis 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



honey-_yellow, brown at tips. Face finely and transversely 

 wrinkled, carinate down the sides and centrally ; antennae two- 

 thirds the length of body, slender, filiform ; mesothorax subtri- 

 lobed anteriorly ; scutellum convex ; metathorax with well-defined 

 elevated lines, forming a square central area; abdomen long, 

 gradually thickened toward apex ; ovipositor half as long as 

 abdomen, sheaths robust at tips. Length 9 lines. 

 Mirador. A magnificent insect. 



o 



Genus GROTEA, Cresson. 



Grotea mexicana, n. sp. 



% 9. Smooth and shining; head and thorax bright yellow; 

 vertex, occiput, mesothorax, and disk of metathorax pale honey- 

 yellow ; sutures of pro- and mesothorax black ; antennae honey- 

 yellow, apex yellow, a narrow black annulus on apical third ; wings 

 h3'aline, iridescent, nervures black; legs and abdomen honej'^-yel- 

 low, the four anterior coxse and base of first abdominal segment 

 yellow. Length 5^-6^ lines. 



Orizaba. (Sumichrast, No. 160.) 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



December 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



Fertilization of Yucca Mr. Thomas Meehan detailed at length 

 the discoveries of Dr. Ensfelmann and Prof, llilev in regard to the 

 fertilization of the Yucca by the aid of a small niglit moth, 

 Pronuha yuccasella of Rile}^, and observed that in this region the 

 fertilization was effected by this insect ever^- 3'ear. In the Rocky 

 Mountains of Colorado in 1871, he saw the Yucca angustifolia, 

 everywhere seeding in great abundance ; but in his journe}' in 1873, 

 he saw not a solitary seed-vessel in any of the plants, and he sug- 

 gested that perhaps some periodical insect might take the place 

 of the Pronuba in that country. 



Note on a Fungoid Boot Parasite Mr. Thomas Meehan ex- 

 hibited a small Norway spruce, in which the branches and leaves 

 were all of a golden tint. He explained that when plants had 

 little food, or lost their fibres in wet soil by which they could not 

 make use of food, the yellow tint was generally exhibited in the 

 leaves of plants. The similarity of the appearances suggesting, 

 he examined and found the roots thickly enveloped by the my- 

 celia of a fungus, which destro^'ed the j'oung fibres as fast as they 

 were developed. Only a few trees had been attacked two years 

 ago ; but last season and this the fungus had spread underground 

 from one plant to another, till now there were over a hundred 

 in the diseased condition of the one exhibited. He had supposed 

 it was one of the small microscopic forms of fungi; but in Oc- 

 tober of the present year, the mycelia developed into a brown agaric 

 with a pileus about two inches broad, but the exact species of which 

 he could not positively determine. The mycelia of some of the 

 larger fungi would destroy the roots of grasses, as in the well- 

 known case of "fairj' rings;" and he believed the Gardener''s 

 Chronicle had conclusively shown that trees were also injuriously 

 affected by some of them ; but he thought that it had not before 

 been so directly proved in the case of American trees. 



He suggested, that, as the phenomena in the case of the trouble- 

 some disease known to American cultivators as the peach "yellows'" 

 wei'e all similar, those who had the opportunity to examine might 

 find the roots affected by a fungus in the same way. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



December 9. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



On the Expansion of the Coma in Asclepiadacese. Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan exliibited some seed-vessels of Gonolobus obliquus, and re- 

 marked, that, though the hairy appendage to the seed known as the 

 Coma in aselepiaclaceous plants was of course well understood, 

 he knew of no one who had placed on record any observation in 

 regard to the suddenness of the expansion after the seed left the 

 capsule. It was indeed so very rapid, that the common expres- 

 sion of "like a stroke of lightning," was scarcely an exaggeration. 

 It was only with difficulty that the eye could follow the motion. 

 In the seed-vessel each set of long silky hair was drawn up into a 

 close linear fascicle ; but on the instant of the seed being relieved 

 from its case, the coma expanded into a perfect hemisphere. 

 Some of the hair formed a right angle, and others more or less 

 acute ones, each seeming to have its fixed place to fall back to. 



It was generally supposed that these hairy appendages and 

 others of a similar character in seeds, were for the express purpose 

 of aiding in seed distribution by wind ; but he had failed in so 

 many instances to see the advantages, that it often seemed as 

 if it were the seed profiting by developed organs, rather than 

 that these were especially formed for an express purpose. 

 The wings of the linden and maple, for instance, give a peculiar 

 spiral motion to the descent of the seed, without any apparent 

 benefit to the seed from the spiral motion ; while the wing, espe- 

 cially in the case of the linden, did not carry the seed far away. 

 But in this case of the Gonolobus, it did seem as if there were 

 better grounds than perhaps in any other case for believing that 

 the hairy appendage is designed expressly to facilitate distribution 

 by wind or air currents. The seeds are heavy, and are borne on 

 the plant but a few feet from the ground: they would fall there 

 in a few seconds on the opening of the capsule, if the mass of 

 hair remained long in its closely compact condition. It was indeed 

 absolutely essential, to be of any use at all as an aid to the wind, 

 the expansion should be immensely rapid. He thought it the most 

 perfect illustration of express design he knew in the vegetable 

 kingdom. 



On Lingula in a, Fish of the Susquehanna. Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that Dr. Chapman had submitted to his examination 

 several entozoa, together with portions of the stomach and intes- 

 tine, of a 3'ellow Pike-perch, Schizostedion, or Lucioperca ameri- 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



cana. The fish had been caught in the Suscjuehanna River, at 

 Duncannon, Pa. In the stomach there was found a large shell of 

 Lingula jiyramidata, which heretofore had not been discovered 

 inliabiting our coast further north than North Carolina. The 

 yellow Pike-perch was generally considered to be altogether a 

 fresh-water fish. The presence of the lingula in the stomach 

 would indicate that it was at least a visitor to the sea, and in the 

 case of the present fish, probably as far down as the North Carolina 

 coast. 



December 16. 



Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twent3'-four members present. 



Bemarks on Fossil Elephant Teeth. Prof. Leidy observed that 

 the fossil elephant teeth, presented this evening by Mr. Richard 

 Peters, were obtained b}' him in Mexico. In appearance the fossils 

 resemble some others, obtained in New Mexico and Chihuahua, 

 referred to in his recent work, " Contributions to the Extinct 

 Vertebrate Fauna of the Western Territories." All appear to have 

 pertained to the coarse-plated variet}' of molars referred to a 

 species by Dr. Falconer with the name of Elcphas Golunibi. Some 

 of the specimens had been found in association with remains of 

 the Mastodon, the extinct and near relative of the elephant. 



The two genera were cotemporaneous, and were represented by 

 many species during the middle and later tertiary' periods, but no 

 remains of either have 3'et been discovered in the early tertiarj^ 

 deposits. It is probable that both are successors from a common 

 stock which existed at a period intermediate to that in which were 

 formed the known eocene and miocene deposits. The elephant has 

 survived the mastodon, as represented in the living species of 

 Asia and Africa to-day. In this countiy, the comparative abun- 

 dance and excellent state of preservation of remains of the mastodon 

 in post-tertiary deposits, would apparently indicate that it had 

 survived the elephant. The mastodon had the outward form and 

 the general construction of the living elephant. Like it, it was a 

 bulky, five-toed animal, with a long prehensile proboscis, and with 

 long tusks to the upper jaw. 



Tlie molar teeth in the two genera differ in a striking manner, 

 and so widely, that early observers thought those of the mastodon 

 were adapted to a carnivorous habit. The actual number of 

 molars is the same in both, but generally those of the functional 

 series, or those in use at any one time, are more numerous in the 

 mastodon than in the elephant. In this the molars are bulky, 

 laminated masses inserted in the jaws without fangs. In the 

 former the molars have distinct crowns, with prominent transverse 

 lobes, inserted with long, strong fangs. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



Notwithstanding the difference it is easy to see that one form 

 is the derivative of the other, and it is probable that the elephan- 

 tine form was evolved from the inastodont form, as the teeth of 

 the mastodon are of a more ancient pattern or type, that is to say, 

 they accord more nearly with the nsual pattern of the molars of 

 ancient pachyderms. 



By simple multiplication of the transverse lobes of the molar 

 crowns of the mastodon, contracting these lobes, elongating them 

 so as to encroach on the position of the fangs, and filling the 

 intervals with cementum, we have the elephant molars produced. 

 The miocene stegodons of the Himalayas were elephants with 

 teeth decidedly of intermediate character in these respects, with 

 the true elephants and the mastodons. 



This mode of complication of the molar teeth in the evolution 

 of the elephant pattern from the mastodon pattern was a very 

 common one among the ungulates. Most of the early ruminants, 

 as Oreodon, Agriochoerus, etc., and the solipeds, as Anchitherium, 

 had molars with short crowns and prominent lobes, inserted with 

 fangs. Their successors, as exemplified in most living ruminants 

 and the horses, have molars with long crowns, complicated in the 

 same manner as we observe in the elephant as compared with the 

 mastodon. 



Nearl}' all oitr domestic herbivorous ungulates belong to genera 

 having long-crowned, complicated molars, as exemplified in the 

 elephant, horse, camel, ox, sheep, and goat. The deer retains the 

 more ancient pattern of molars. 



That the course of evolution was from the more simple to the 

 more complicated type would appear to be confirmed in the fact 

 that the temporary molars have proportionately shorter crowns 

 and longer roots than in those of the permanent series. 



The death of Prof. Agassiz was announced by the Chair, and a 

 committee consisting of Drs. Le Conte, Carson, and Leidy was 

 appointed to draft resolutions of regret. 



December 23. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirty-seven members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : 

 " On Three New Species of Unionidse of the United States." 

 By Isaac Lea. 



Prof. Cope made some remarks on fishes from the coal mea- 

 sures at Linton, Ohio. He stated that Prof. Newberry, Director 

 of the Geological Survey of Ohio, had sent to him numerous 






418 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



specimens of fishes and batrachians for determination and de- 

 scription. Among these he had discovered batrachians {Colos- 

 teus, Cope) which were labelled and had been described as fishes 

 {Pygopterus scutellafiis, Xewb.), and fishes {Conehiopi>U and 

 Feplo7-hi7ia, Cope) some of which were labelled "Amphibian or 

 Keptilian." Having determined the latter to be fishes and de- 

 scribed them, Prof. Cope now called attention to a note of Prof. 

 Newberry on the latter, read at the last meeting of the Academy, 

 in which he states, (1) that Fcplorhina anthracina is a batrachian ; 



(2) that it is identical with Conchiopsis exanthematicus^ Cope; 



(3) that C. filiferus is Coelacanthus elegann^ Xewb. ; (4) that the 

 dentition described by me is not that of Coelacanthus ; and that 

 (5) the genus is the same as that described by Agassiz forty 

 years ago as Coelacanthus. 



To these propositions Prof. Cope replied, that (1) Additional 

 evidence derived from two specimens of Peplorhina anthracina^ 

 Cope, recently studied, confirms the view that it is a fish, which 

 evidence is given below; (2) That neither of the two specimens 

 exhibits in its cranial bones the characters of C. exanthematiciis, 

 though both sides are exhibited. They show, however, that tlie 

 latter should be referred to the genus Peplorhina, since among 

 other points they present the same tj'pe of teeth, which I find 

 labelled on one of them "ova?"; (3) Prof. Newberry's identi- 

 fication of the species C. filiferus with Coelacanthus elegans is 

 doubtless correct ;' but (4 and 5) Its reference (with that of similar 

 species) to Agassiz's genus is not warranted, until it is found to 

 possess an osseous natatory bladder (wliich Prof N. states in the 

 Geological Survey of Ohio that he could not find in any of his 

 five hundred specimens), and osseous ribs and the type of denti- 

 tion are discovered in Coelacanthus granulatus, the type of the 

 genus. 



One of the new specimens of Peplorhina'^ displays the lower 

 side of the cranium, and on it two large jugular bones, one on 

 each side, on the inner side of the mandil)le. They are elongate, 

 the posterior border oblique, so as to present an apex on the 

 inner side ; the inner edge is thin, the outer thickened ; the surface 

 smooth, with a very obscure longitudinal striation. Between 

 their anterior extremities is a subround disciform bone in the po- 

 sition of the basi or glosso-ln'al. The mandibular rami extend 

 round its anterior margin, and posteriorly- nearly to the end of 

 the jugular. The symphysis is a curious interdigitation of three 

 fingers into as many notches, and the dentaries near them are 

 marked with sj^mmetrical pores, which look like tlie exits of 

 mucous ducts. Three are on the superior, and two on the in- 

 ferior margin of the bone, and a sixth is immediately between the 



' Thon<ih no one could suppose so from his imperfect figure, GcoL Surv. 

 Ohio, PI. 40, Fijr. 1. 

 2 Proceedings of the Academy, 1873, p. 343. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



upper and lower inner ones. These pores correspond with the 

 mucous ducts of the lateral line observed in the scales of the type. 

 The teeth are numerously placed in a patch on the vomer, or at 

 least the roof of the mouth, and are short, conic, acute, and 

 smooth. They are discoverable as far backwards as the anterior 

 end of the jugular plates. The large opercular bones are smooth, 

 and the head is covered above with nearly smooth, thin scuta. 

 The head is wide behind, and though contracted forwards, the 

 muzzle is broadly obtuse. Irregular masses, perhaps remains 

 of cartilas^e, follow the skull in which a few ribs are scattered. 



The other specimen displays the smooth operculum patch of 

 vomerine teeth, and several separated scuta of the surface of the 

 cranium. These have rounded angles, one or more convex sides, 

 and very obscure radiating ridges. 



The characters relied on as indicative of the reference of Pep- 

 lorhina to the fishes, are (1) the presence of opercula like those 

 of Conchiopsis ; (2) the presence of jugular bones, and (3) of 

 oval imbricated scales ; (4) the absence of ambulator^' limbs. 

 The thin scutiform cranial bones, the dense patch of vomerine 

 teeth, and the mucous ducts of the bones and scales were all 

 ichthyic characters. As no limbs had been discovered in three 

 specimens preserved in the appropriate regions, their nature, if 

 existing, could not be determined at present. 



Prof. Cope brought before the Academy some results derived 

 from study of material obtained bj' him during the preceding 

 summer in the miocene formations of Colorado. He announced 

 the discovery of the first fossil monkey of the miocene of America, 

 giving it the name of Menotherium lemurinum. He regarded it 

 as allied to the Tomitherium of the Bridger Eocene, and as the 

 representative of the more numerous group of the lemuroids, 

 which he had discovered in the latter formation. He stated that 

 there are three tubercular molars and a sectorial-like premolar in 

 front of them ; that this tooth is preceded either by a more elongate 

 premolar with two roots, or by two single-rooted premolars. 

 The molars each support four tubercles in nearly opposite 

 pairs, the inner anterior connected with the outer posterior 

 by a diagonal ridge ; the last premolar compressed with obtuse 

 apex, broad heel, and anterior tubercle. Size that of a domestic 

 cat. Prof. Cope stated that his recent discovery of snakes, 

 lizards, and lemurs of forms allied to those previously discovered 

 by Prof. Marsh and himself in the Eocene of Wyoming, consti- 

 tuted points of affinity to the fauna of that period not previously 

 suspected. He also observed that he had discovered some addi- 

 tional species of Ruminantia allied to the musk, and to the Lepto- 

 meryx evansii, Leidy, which he named Hypisodus miuimus^ and 

 Hypertragidufi calcaratus^ and H. tricostatus. The first was the 

 least of the order, not exceeding a cat-squirrel in size. Hyper- 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tragidus differs from Leptomeryx iu the isolation of the first 

 premolar, as in the camels, and in the sectorial character of the 

 pennltimate premolar. The temporary premolars had the form 

 of the pennant corresponding teeth in Leptomeryx. 



Prof. Cope also mentioned two interesting observations on 

 Ungulate species of the Western Pliocene formation. lie found 

 that the horses of tlie genus Protohippus were provided with 

 three toes, as in Hippothei'ium ; skeletons of P. srjimctus, Cope, 

 and P. j^lacidus, Leidy, having furnished the parts in question. 



The other fact ascertained was the existence of a complete 

 series of superior incisor teeth in certain camels of the same period. 

 The observation was made on the cranium of an adult Procamelus 

 heterodontus, Cope, sp. nov. The alveoli were completely pre- 

 served, but it was thought that their appearance indicated the 

 easy shedding of the teeth. 



On Circulatory Movement in Vaucheria. Prof. Leidy made 

 some remarks on the intra-cellular circulation of plants, as exem- 

 plified in the hairs of the Mullein, the leaf-cells of Vallisneria, etc. 

 The moving streams of protoplasm he likened to ama?boid move- 

 ments, and expressed the opinion that they were of the same 

 character. In the common alga, Vaucheria, the filaments of which 

 consist of very long cells, comparable to those of Nitella or Chara, 

 he had observed an apparent motion of the cell contents, which 

 is somewhat peculiar and, at least, is not generally mentioned b}' 

 writers. The wall of the cells is invested on the interior with a 

 layer of tenacious protoplasm, containing the thinner liquid cell 

 contents as usual. The parietal protoplasm is closel^^ paved with 

 green granules, and these appear very slowly but incessantly' to 

 change their position in relation with one another. The motion is 

 so slow that it was a question for some time whether it did actually 

 occur, but it appears sufficiently obvious if observed in relation 

 with the lines of a micrometer, and its existence was confirmed by 

 several friends whose attention was directed to it. 



In behalf of the committee, Prof. Carson made the following 

 report: 



In accordance with the resolutions passed at the last meeting of 

 the Academy, upon the announcement by the chairman of the 

 death of Prof. Agassiz, that a committee be appointed to prepare 

 such a testimonial as would express the sentiment of the Academy 

 upon the loss of so distinguished a member, and be proper to be 

 placed upon the minutes as a record of the high appreciation en- 

 tertained by it of his services to science, the committee reports the 

 following : 



Resolved, That in the death of Professor Louis John Rudolph 

 Agassiz the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has 

 lost one of the most illustrious of the associates whose names have 

 graced the list of members of the institution. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Besolved, That the Academy fully recognizes the fact that by 

 the death of one whose works and reputation shed lustre upon the 

 jjursuit of natural science, not only this country, but the intellec- 

 tual world, has sustained a loss which will not easily be replaced. 



Resolved, That, with the grief we would express for his loss as 

 one of the most eminent of modern naturalists, we cannot with- 

 hold the attestation of our gratitude for the course he took of 

 becoming a citizen of the United States, and for his untiring de- 

 votion to the development of the natural history of this continent, 

 thus having identified himself with American science, of which he 

 was a leading and most successful explorer. 



Resolved, That while his life and career were models to be imi- 

 tated by the student of nature, his genial temper, estimable quali- 

 ties and high honorable motives as a man endeared him to all who 

 came within his influence, and have left the most pleasurable rec- 

 ollections of his person and character. 



Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with those in whose im- 

 mediate behalf and for whose advancement his talents and energy 

 have been expended, and express tlie hope that the impulse he has 

 given to their labors may be continued, and that the interest he 

 aroused within the immediate circle of his efforts may not be lost, 

 but continue as a tribute to his worth and the perpetuation of his 

 fame. 



Resolved, That we fully appreciate the extent of the bereave- 

 ment which, under Providence, has befallen the family and friends 

 of Prof. Agassiz, and beg to express our heartfelt participation in 

 the sorrow experienced by them. 



The resolutions were adopted unanimously, and the President 

 of tlie Society was instructed to transmit a copy of them to the 

 widow of Prof Agassiz. 



December 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Forty-one members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : " Remarka- 

 ble Variations in Coloration, Ornamentation, etc., of certain Larvse 

 of Nocturnal Lepidoptera." By Thos. G. Gentry. 



The following were elected members: John Welsh, Jr., Thos. 

 H. Powers, Jas, M. Fox, Daniel Neall, Frank D. Lankenau, Wm. 

 L. Schaffer, Samuel L. Smedley, Mrs. S. R. Barton. 



Prof. Burt G. Wilder, of Ithaca, N. Y., Prof. J. Henle, of Got- 

 tingen, and Townshend S. Brandegee, of Caiion City, Colorado, 

 were elected correspondents. 



On report of the committees, the following papers were ordered 

 to be printed: 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTION OF SEVEN NEW SPECIES OF UNIONIDi OF THE 



UNITED STATES. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 

 Unio infulgens. 



Testa la.'vi, subohlonga, inflata, inaequilaterali, postice subbian- 

 gnlari, anlice rotundata ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus ; 

 iiatibus prominulis ; epidermide nitida, polita, eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus subgi-andibus, sulcatis et in utroque valvule duplici- 

 bus ; lateralibus longis, crassis subrectisque ; margarita salmonis 

 colore tincta et valde iridescente. 



Hah. Stewart's Pond, Union Co., N. Car. C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio subolivaceus. 



Testa laevi, oblonga, subcorapressa,infequilaterali, postice obtuse 

 angulari, antice rotundata; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus; 

 natibus prominulis; epidermide luteo olivacca, subnitida, eradi- 

 ata ; dentibus cardinalibus grandis, sulcatis, in utroque valvulo 

 duplicibus ; lateralibus percrassis, obliquis ; magarita alba et iri- 

 descente. 



Hah. Catawba River, Fox and Yadkin Rivers, N. Car. C. M. 



Wheatley. 



Unio cirratns. 



Testa la?vi, oblonga, subcompressa, inoequilaterali, postice obtuse 

 biangulari, antice rotunda; valvulis subcrassis, antice parum cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus prominulis; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, sub- 

 cirrata, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, sulcatis, in 

 utroque valvulo duplicibus; laterabus sublongis, lamellatis sub- 

 rectisque ; margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore tincta et valde 

 iridescente. 



Hah. Abbeville Dist., S. C. Dr. Barratt. 



Unio subcylindraceus. 



Testa li^evi, subcylindracea, valde transversa, valde imiequila- 

 terali, postice obtuse biangulari, antice oblique rotundata ; valvu- 

 lis crassis, antice parum crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epi- 

 dermideluteo-viridi,perradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, 

 compresso-conicis crenulatisque ; lateralibus pr.x'longis, lamellatis 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



subrectisque ; margarita vel alba vel purpurea vel salmonis colore 

 tincta et vakle iridesceute. 



Hab. Rock}'^ Creek, near Macon, Geo., J. C. Plant; and Carter's 

 Creek, Geo., J. Postell. 



Unio hastatus. 



Testa Isevi, transversa, subconipressa, valde injequilaterali, pos- 

 tice angulata, antice rotunda; valvulis crassiusculis, antice parum 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominulis, epidermide luteo-oliva, obsolete 

 radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, subcompressis crenulatis- 

 que ; lateralibus longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita alba et 

 valde iridescente. 



Hah. New Market, Abbeville Dist., S. C, Dr. L. R. Gibbs and 

 Dr. Barratt; and Rocky Creek, near Macon, Geo., J. C. Plant. 



TJnio corneus. 



Testa Isevi, oblonga, subcompressa, ad latere parum planulata, 

 inaequilaterali, postice biangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis cras- 

 siusculis; natibus prominulis; epidermide cornea, perradiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis et in utroque valvule duplici- 

 bus ; lateralibus longis, crassis subcurvisque; margarita pallido- 

 purpurea vel salmonis colore tincta et iridescente. 



Hab. Columbus, Geo., G. Hallenbeck; Abbeville Dist., S. C, 

 Dr. Barratt ; Marietta, Geo,, J. C. Anthony. 



TJnio strumosus. 



Testa laevi, rotundata, inflata,inaequilaterali, postice obtuse undu- 

 lata, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassis ; natibus prominulis ; epi- 

 dermide tenebroso-fusca vel nigra, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus 

 subgrandibus, rugosis, in utroque valvule duplicibus ; lateralibus 

 longis, rugosis curvatisque ; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hab. Yadkin River, N. C. C. M. Wheatley. 




424 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



DESCRIPTION OF THREE NEW SPECIES OF TJNIONES OF THE 



UNITED STATES. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 

 Dnio Dooleyensis. 



Testca lievi, oblonga, valde compressa, valde inaequilaterali, pos- 

 tice biaugulari, antice rotundata; valvulis subtenuibus ; natibus 

 prominulis ; epidermide luteo-oliva, obsolete radiata ; dentibus 

 cardinatibus parvis, in utroque valvulo duplicibus; lateralibus 

 lougis, lamellatis rectisque ; margarita livida et iridescente. 



Hab. Dooley Co., Georgia, Rev. G. Wliite; Abbeville, S. C, 

 Dr. Barratt. 



TJnio invenustus. 



Testa lajvi, oblonga, subcompvessa, valde inaequilaterali, postice 

 subbiangulari, antice rotundata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice ali- 

 quanto crassioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso- 

 fiisca, obsolete radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis sulca- 

 tisque ; lateralibus sublongis, curvatis lamellatisque ; margarita 

 livida et iridescente. 



Hab. Columbus, Geo., G. Hallenbeck ; Russel Co., Geo., Dr. 

 I^eisler ; Irwin's Creek, North Carolina, C. M. Wlieatley. 



TJnio Gesnerii. 



Testa laevi, suboblonga, inflata, inaequilaterali, postice subbian- 

 gulari, antice oblique rotundata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice cras- 

 sioribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fiisca vel 

 radiata vel eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassiusculis, in utro- 

 que valvulo duplicibus sulcatisque ; lateralibus longis, crassis 

 lamellatisque ; margarita livida et iridescente. 



Hab. Uchee River, near Columbus, Geo. Dr. J. Lewis. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



NOTES ON THE GENUS CONCHIOPSIS, Cope. 

 BY J. S. NEWBERY. 



In the Proceeclings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 (1873, Part II. page 340), I fiiul descriptions b}^ Prof. Cope 

 of some fossil fishes from the Coal Measures of Ohio, which 

 seem to require a word of comment. A large collection of am- 

 phibian remains w4iich I obtained from Ohio, I sent to Prof. Cope 

 for description, informing him that the fossil fishes found with 

 them had been, or would be, described by m3^self. Among the 

 amphibian remains sent to Prof. Cope a few fishes were accidentally 

 included. These he has described in the place referred to. To 

 receive them he has constructed the new genus Conchiopsis, Cope, 

 and describes under it three species ; G. filiferua^ Cope ; G. angu- 

 liferv,s^ Cope, and G. exanthematicvs, Cope. He also describes 

 another genus, Peplorhina^ of which he defines one species (P. 

 anthracina^ Cope). Since these descriptions were published, the 

 specimens have been returned to me. On examining them, I find 



1st. That Prof. Cope's genus Conchiopsis is identical with 

 Agassiz's G eel acanthus, described in his Foissons Fussiles, Tom. 

 II., Par. 2, page ITO. Tiie genus is still further and more 

 fully illustrated by Huxley in The Memoirs of the Geological 

 Survey of the United Kingdom, Decades X and XII. 



2d. Prof. Cope's species G. filiferus and G. anguliferus, both 

 belong to the species Gcelacanthus elegans, described by me in the 

 Proceedings of the Acad, of Nat. Sciences, Philadelphia, April, 

 ] 856, and more fully illustrated in the first volume of the final 

 report of the Geological Survey of Ohio, Part II.,Pali3eontolog3', 

 page 337, pi. 40. 



3d. The "gular plates" referred to by Prof. Cope in his descrip- 

 tion of Gonchiopsis, &,re reallj' the opercula ; the jugular plates 

 which he has apparently not seen are long elliptical, some- 

 times almost linear in outline. 



4th. The dentition which Prof. Cope attributes to Gcelacanthus 

 {Gonchiopsis, Cope) is not the true dentition of the genus, as he 

 has drawn his inference from the dentition of his G. exanthema- 

 ticus, which is not a Gcelacanthus. 



5tli. The species referred to above, Gonchiopsis exanthematicus, 

 28 






426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cope, is identical with his Peplorhina anthracina. The chief dis- 

 tinction made by him : the ditference in the surfaces of what he 

 calls the " gular shields" in one case smooth, in the other granu- 

 lated or pustular is due simply to the exposure, in one case, of 

 the inside, and the other, the external and ornamented surface of 

 the cheek plates as the^'^ are, and not jugulars as he considers 

 them. 



6th. The material representing Prof. Cope's genus Peplorhina 

 is too imperfect for satisfactory study, but, in my judgment, it 

 represents an amphibian and not a fish. 



I ought, perhaps, to say in justification of the somewhat posi- 

 tive manner in which tlie above statements are made, that they 

 are based upon a careful study of an immense amount of material 

 which I have been gathering from Linton during the last twenty 

 years. The richness of this material may be inferred when I say 

 that of the species especially referred to in the above note, Ccela- 

 canthus elegans, I have obtained more than 500 specimens. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee: 



RECORDING SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending Xovember 30th, 1873, there have been elected forty- 

 three members and nine correspondents. 



The announcement has been made of the death of the folio win o* 

 members and correspondents : 



Seven members, namel}^: Samuel Emlen Randolph, Com. .John 

 P. Gillis, U.S.X., Dr. Thomas McCuen, John Warner, Elias Du- 

 rand, Dr. L. S. Bolles, Theodore Moss. 



Three correspondents, namely: Dr. John Torrey, Friedrich 

 Ernest Melsheimer, M.D., Frank Guckert. 



Two resignations of meuibership have been accepted. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed in 

 the Proceedings and Journal of the Academy during the year, has 

 been twenty-eight, as follows : 



In the Journal : 

 Isaac Lea 1 | E. D. Cope 1 



For the Proceedings : 

 Isaac Lea 1 



C. T. Cresson . . . 

 R. E. C. Stearns . . 

 Dr. John L. Le Conte 

 Bernard A. Hoopes . 

 W. H. Dall . . . . 



G. R. Crotch 3 



E. D. Cope 3 



Theo. Gill 3 



T. G. Gentry 5 



Cyrus Thomas 1 



Andrew Garrett 3 



Thomas Bland and W. G. Biuney 1 



Papers ordered to be published in the Medical Journals, two, 

 namely : 



Dr. Tyson 1 | Drs. A. Fricke and Joseph Leidy 1 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Samuel B. Howell, 



Recording Secretary. 




428 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



THE LIBRARIAN'S EfEPORT. 



* 



The Librarian respectfiill.y reports that 1336 additions to the 

 library- have been made dining the year 1873. 



Of these 299 were volumes, 1031 pamphlets and parts of peri- 

 odicals, and 6 maps and charts, etc.; 1052 were octavos, 241 

 quartos, 22 duodecimos, 15 folios, and 6 maps. 



They were derived from the following sources : 



Societies 



Editors 



Authors 



The late Elias Durand 



605 

 2r)2 

 160 



58 



Wor 



The Wilson Fund 51 



Isaac Lea 18 



Thomas Median ...... 8 



Publishers 8 



Geological Survey of Sweden . 8 



Geological Survey of Italy . . 



Geological Survey of India . . 4 



3Irs. Griffith 6 



Treasury Department .... 5 



Agricultural Department ... 5 



J. S. Newberry 3 



Commissioner of Education . , 3 



Daniel B. Smith 

 A. J. Brasier . . . 

 Minister of Public 

 France .... 

 Department of the Interior 

 Rev. E. K. Beadle . 

 n. Erni .... 

 Government of Bengal 

 S. S. Haldeman . '. 

 Dr. J. H. McQuillen 

 W. E. Bowman . . 

 Government of Brazil 

 E. Rosengarteu . . 

 Francis A. "Walker 

 Dr. II. C. Wood . 



ks 



in 



2 

 2 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 



One hundred and eighteen were purchased. The 58 volumes 

 from the late Elias Durand, including a collection of valuable 

 pamphlets in six volumes, were bequeathed to the Acadeni}': his 

 wish was that the}' should be kept in the Botanical Room, for the 

 convenience of those working in the Herbarium ; and in com- 

 pliance with this intention a separate catalogue of these books 

 has been prepared. 



The additions to the libraiy were distributed to the several 

 departments as follows : 



Journals and Periodicals . . . 859" Useful Arts 10 



Geology !)!) l^liysical Science G 



Botany 79 Gliemistry 6 



Bibliography 68 Herpetology 4 



General Natural History ... 46 lohthvology 4 



. . 4 



, . 3 



, . 2 



o 



. fj 



. . 1 



Concholog}^ 34 IMincralogv 



Entomology 32 Voyages aiul Travels 



Anatomy and Ph3'9iology . . 26 



Theology 26 



Ornithology 15 



Hclmiuthology 10 



Antiiitiitics and Fine 

 Malhcmatics . 

 INIamnialogy . . . 



\rts 



307 volumes have been bound. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



The catnlogiics of the works on Geology, Eutoinology, and 

 General Natural History have been carefully revised, and the en- 

 tries in the first named, numbering 1902 titles exclusive of cross- 

 references, have been arranged in alphabetical order, read}^ for 

 transcribing. 5.'^8 Geological pam])hlets have been indexed and 

 bound in 31 volumes; and 1(U pamphlets on General Natural 

 History haA-e been arranged in 12 volumes. 



In the department of Journals and Periodicals the cases and 

 shelves have been numbered, and the position of each work indi- 

 cated on a new catalogue, which has been completed and is here- 

 with presented. The numbers are merel3' provisional, as the 

 amount of shelf room in tiiis, section of the librarj'^ is entirely too 

 small to permit of a proper display of the volumes. Whilst the 

 old arrangement in this department has not been altered, it is yet 

 hoped that the reference to the case and shelf will facilitate the 

 finding of Journals, which, in the mere geograpliical classification, 

 might readil}' be overlooked. The entries in this catalogue number 

 tG3. 



The library has been kept open in the evenings until 10 o'clock 

 since the 2d of last April. The attendance of members has been 

 small, but the additional time at the disposal of the librarian has 

 given him an opportunity of finishing much of the work above 

 reported, the greater part of which would be still incomplete had 

 his attendance ]:)een confined to the morning hours, as formerlj-. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



But little change has been made in the Museum of the Academy 

 towards the arrangement in o;eneral of its collections since the 

 presentation of the last annual report. Under the voluntary and 

 assiduous labor of the committee of arrangement of the Concho- 

 logical Section, the conchological cabinet has been completely 

 arranged and labelled, and may now be regarded as in better con- 

 dition than any other collection of the Museum. For a special 

 account of that cabinet, and the additions made to it during the 

 year, we refer to the Report of the Conservator of the Concho- 

 logical Section. 



The Curators regret to state that several of the collections of 




430 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the Museum have recently suffered from the depredations of a 

 thief, but are also pleased to add that the latter has been appre- 

 hended, and it is believed that all the stolen articles have been 

 recovered. 



The contributions towards the Museum during the year are as 

 follows : 



Mammals. A Porpoise, from the Delaware River, was pre- 

 sented by Dr. H. C. Chapman. An Ant-eater, a Sloth, an Oi)OS- 

 suni, and a Howling Monke}', from Guinea, were presented by 

 Capt. R. S. Henwood ; and three monkeys from the same country 

 were presented by Mr. Frank Guckert. As a donation from the 

 Smithsonian Institution we received a collection of American 

 Muridce, consisting of a box of skins and two jars of specimens in 

 alcohol. Mr. Nathaniel H. Bishop presented two specimens, 

 male and female, of Spermophilus Franklinii, caught in Ocean 

 Co., New Jersey ; and Dr. L. Fussel presented a Black Rat, 3Ius 

 rattus^ caught near Philadelphia. 



Birds. Five skins of Toucans, from Guinea, were presented 

 by Mr. F. Guckert. Specimens of a recently described variety of 

 Buteo borealis, called Krider's Hawk, male and female, were 

 presented by Mr. John Krider. The nest of tlie common Hum- 

 ming-bird, was presented by Col. F. M. Etting. 



Beptiles, Bafrachians, and Fishes. A collection of reptiles and 

 fishes, contained in 21 jars, from the Viti Isles, was presented by 

 Andrew J. Garrett. Another collection, in 12 jars, from Wyo- 

 ming, was presented by Prof. E. D. Cope. Others were presented 

 as follows: A collection of reptiles, in 6 jars, from Venezuela, 

 by L. M. Davis ; the skin of a large serpent, two other snakes and 

 a lizard, from Guinea, b}^ F. Guckert; 3 jars of fishes, from 

 Wyoming, by Dr. Leid}' ; 2 fishes and a snake, from Peru, bj- 

 Thomas M. Cleemann ; an Amblystoma, from Utah, by Dr. H. C. 

 Chapman ; and a Grayling, from Michigan, b}- Mr. Thaddeus 

 Norris. 



Osteological Specimens. Skeletons of a Cap^'bara, a Kangaroo, 

 a Fisher, a Pine Martin, an American Badger, and a Black Si>ider 

 Monkey were purchased for the Museum. Nine skeletons of birds, 

 from St. Paul's Island, Alaska, from the Elliot collection, were 

 donated by the Smithsonian Institution. Skulls of a Crocodile 

 and a Tapir, and the hyoid of a Howler, from Guiana, were pre- 

 sented by F. Guckert. A fine large skull of the Rocky Mountain 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Sheep was presented by Joseph Jeanes and Isaac Lea. There 

 were also donated two skulls of Mound-builders, from Ohio, by 

 Messrs. Walter Brown and Cyrus B. Haldeman, and the skull of 

 a Samoan Islander, by Dr. H. C. Eckstein, U. S. N. 



3IoUusks. See Report of the Conservator of the Conchological 

 Section. 



Articulates and Radiates A collection comprising many corals 

 and echinoderms, from the South Pacific, was presented by Dr. 

 H. C. Eckstein. A collection of crustaceans and a coral, from 

 the Yiti Isles, were presented by A. J. Garrett. Two species of 

 centipeds and a spider were presented by Mrs. Williams ; several 

 scolopendrffi and beetles, from Guiana, by F. Guckert ; and a 

 Gorgonia, by Mr. Neville. 



Fossils. A collection of well-preserved remains of Uintathe- 

 rium and bituminous shales with fishes and shells, from the tertiary 

 formations of Wyoming, were presented by Joseph Jeanes and 

 Isaac Lea. Numerous remains of Palffiosyops, Hyrachyus, Uinta- 

 theriura, Emys, Testudo, Trionyx, etc., obtained from the tertiary 

 beds in the vicinity of Fort Bridger, Wyoming, were collected, on 

 account of the Academy, during the last summer, by Dr. J. Van 

 A. Carter and Dr. Leidy, part of the expense of the expedition 

 having been defrayed by Joseph Jeanes and Isaac Lea. 



Small collections of fossils were presented as follows : Some 

 vertebrate , remains from the Ashley River phosphate beds, bv 

 Thomas Sinnickson ; some palaeozoic fossils, from Madison, 

 Indiana, by M. A. Gavitt ; miscellaneous fossils, by C. S. Bement ; 

 Mosasauroid remains, from the Santee Agency, by Dr. George 

 Roberts; several fossils from New South Wales, by Dr. H. C. 

 Eckstein and Mr. P. F. Adams ; some shark teeth, from Mt. Holly, 

 N. J., by Dr. Francis Ashhurst ; teeth of the elephant, from New 

 Mexico, by Mr. Richard Peters, and several shells, from Virginia, 

 by S. Powel. 



Plants. A collection from the Dall Exploring Expedition in 

 Alaska, and another of Malaccan plants, from Kew Garden, Eng., 

 were presented by Prof. Asa Gray. One hundred species of plants 

 of Utah, collected by A. L. Siler, were presented by Thomas 

 Meehan. Specimens of the mistletoe of Pinus ponderosa of 

 Colorado were presented by Prof. Cope. 



Minerals. Many choice specimens, all appropriate for the 

 cabinet, were presented, as follows : Sixty-one from Clarence S. 




I 



432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Bement ; forty-one from Joseph Jeanes; fifteen from Wm. S. Yaux; 

 three from Messrs. Vaux and Bement; twent3'' from Joseph AVill- 

 cox; two by Homer Pennock; eight by Dr. H. C. Eckstein, U. S. N.; 

 two by Dr. F. V. Harden; two by Dr. J. Yan A. Carter; six by 

 John R. Harvey ; one by Thomas Sinnickson ; and one by Dr. 

 Leid}'. 



A remarkably fine specimen of opalized wood, consisting of the 

 segment of a tree, about one foot in length and eight inches in 

 diameter, was presented l)y Mr. Michael Mohler, of Nevada Cit}', 

 California. A mass of galena, weighing upwards of 600 lbs., was 

 presented by the Asbury M. E. Sunday School of Dubuque Co., 

 Iowa. 



Other minerals were presented by Messrs. P. P. Peck. P. F. 

 Adams, G. C. Hewett, and Charles Weston. 



Miscellaneous Sj^ecimens. A curious stone relic, from Butler 

 Co., Pa., was presented by Dr. J. C. McKee, U. S. A. A jar con- 

 taining a collection of small vertebrates and some invertebrates, 

 from the Isle Redowda, W. I., was presented by Dr. R. E. Yan 

 Riggersraa. Several interesting objects were donated by Mr. T. 

 G. Gentry ; and a large Hornet nest, from New Jersey, was re- 

 ceived from John Tatem. 



Respectfully^ submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF RECORDER OF BIOLOGICAL AND 

 MICROSCOPICAL SECTION. 



Adopted December 1st, 1873, and forwarded to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences as the Report of the Section for the current year. 







In presenting our Annual Report for tlie vear 1813, I think we 

 have again great reason to congratulate ourselves upon the amount 

 of original observation and experiments which has been brought 

 forward by our members, placed on record in our proceedings, 

 and given to the world, cliiefly in the columns of tlie Fhiladelphia 

 Medical Times. For whilst it is true that a smaller number of 

 elaborately prepared essays have been laid before us the past 

 twelve months than in former years, there has, undoulitedly, been 

 elicited in our discussions a much larger amount and variety of 

 that individual opinion and experience which form the essential 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



olijects of aii}'^ such society for the systematic observation of na- 

 tural phenomena as ours, and the expression of which constitutes 

 the true life of every similar association. 



The interesting report of Dr. Albert Fricke upon the " Horse 

 Epidemic of October and November, 18*12," read before our De- 

 cember meeting of last year, and published in the 3Iedicol 2V??ie.s, 

 was followed in January hj^ the useful essa}' of Dr. J. Gibbons 

 Hunt, " On the Preparation and Preservation of Vegetable 

 Tissues," comprising a complete exposition of the method for 

 mounting objects in Damar, which has of late proved so valuable 

 to microscopists. In connection with this communication, Dr. 

 Hunt showed specimens of the common Truffle, discovered grow- 

 ing wild near Philadelphia by himself, for the first time, as far as 

 we are aware, in America. 



The February meeting was occupied with the reading and dis- 

 cussion of Dr. James T^'son's able paper, "On the Microscopic 

 Stud}' of Blood and Epithelium," embodying some of the results 

 of the author's observations in Europe, in the laboratories of 

 Strieker and Klein, and since developed, in accordance witli 

 nature's great law of the survival of the fittest, into an excellent 

 introduction to practical histology. 



Mr. Daid. S. Holraan submitted to us in March his ingenious 

 moist slide for the examination of blood, pus, etc., whose practical 

 application was admirably sliown the following month, at the very 

 satifactorj" exhibition of microscopes, microscopical apparatus, 

 and specimens, given by the Section in the Hall of the Academ}^, 

 and attended by a large number of members and citizen^, includ- 

 ing many ladies, who appeared mueli interested in the wonders of 

 the microscopic world. 



In May, Dr. J. G Hunt contributed a very practical communi- 

 cation, " On the Use of Hfeinatox3don in the Preparation of Stain- 

 ings of both Vegetable and Animal Tissues," and in June exhi- 

 bited a common Stellate Hair, sent to him as an extraordinary 

 ingredient of vomited matter, which gave rise to an interesting 

 and important debate upon Dr. Charlton Bastiau's researches in 

 reg;ard to the Beginnino-s of Life. 



The curious putridity of the water in the reservoir at the Cam- 

 den Water Works, which presented an insoluble problem to vari- 

 ous scientists, was demonstrated dui'ing the summer, by Dr. J. G. 

 Hunt, to be due to the growth of a Nostoc, the Trichormus 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Thompsoni, and at the October meeting he exhibited specimens of 

 the plant, and suggested a method of preventing its development, 

 which, if adopted, may economize expenditure to the amount of 

 thousands of dollars, for our own and other municipal authorities. 

 Finally, at our last meeting, several short communications were 

 brought forward, among the most important of which were Dr, 

 Tyson's exhibition and account of Echinococci, and Dr. J. H. 

 McQuillen's observations on a remarkable case of Dilaceration of 

 the Crown of an Incisor Tooth. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Jos. G. Richardson, Recorder. 



REPORT OF CONSERVATOR OF COXCHOLOGICAL 



SECTION. 



The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfull}- re- 

 ports that the donations to the Cabinet, during the past year, have 

 been as follows : 



Beadle, Rev. E. R. Nannina raregutlata, Mous., from Insula 



Adenon and Ario2:)anta intumescens, Blandf., from Mahlablish- 



var, India. 

 Berendt Expedition, Subscribers to. Five species of land and 



fresh-water shells from Central America. 

 Ennis, J. Pecten tenuicostata, Migh., from Mt. Desert Island, 



Maine. 

 Lea, I. Eight species of Unio, and two species from Georgia and 



S. Carolina. 



In addition the following have been presented to the Aca- 

 deni}' : 



Dall, W. H. Types of three new species of Mollusca from Cali- 

 fornia. 



Eckstein, Dr. H. C. One hundred and twentj'-eight species of 

 shells from the South Pacific Islands. 



Gabb, W. M. Fifty -two species of land shells from San Domingo. 



Garrett, And. Twent3'-six species of Cyprsea^ from the A'iti 

 Jslands. Fort}' species of Neritidoe and Neretinidse., from the 

 Viti Islands. Seven hundred and twenty-five species of Marine 

 and Terrestrial Mollusca principally from the Viti Islands, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 







Central Pacific Ocean. In all, about three thousand specimens, 



including types of man}^ new species. 

 Lea, I. Unio incrassatus, Lea, Georgia; and Unio Forhesianus, 



Lea, Abbeville Dist., S. C 

 RuscHENBERQER, Dr. W. S. W. Three species of Marine MoUusks 



from Porto Venere, Spezzia, and three species of Helices, from 



Pompeii. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Fifty species Marine Mollusca, from Coast of 



California, principally new to the Academ^^'s collection. Also 



types of several new species from Florida, to be described in 



the Academy's Proceedings. 

 Wetherby, a. G. Helix fallax, Say, and Goniobasis sordida, 



Lea, Pearson's Creek, Mo. 

 WiLLCOX, Jos. Helix albolabris, S. W. North Carolina. 



The work of the Committee on the arrangement of the Cabinet 

 has been prosecuted during the year with extraordinary industrj', 

 and it affords your Conservator lively satisfaction to be able to 

 report the conclusion of tlie Committee's labors, and the complete 

 arrangement of the collection of shells. At the end of 1872, 

 40,873 specimens of 6893 species had been supplied with 12.067 

 labels, and placed systematically in the cases. During the past 

 year 35,606 specimens of 7268 species have been cleansed, oiled, 

 and arranged in trays, and 12,218 labels written, thus showing a 

 laro-er amount of work done in this one vear than had been com- 

 pleted in the six preceding years. The collection is, probably, in 

 every respect the finest in the world, and represents nearl}^ all the 

 good species described; a very large synonymy amounting to, 

 perhaps, several thousand names being eliminated during the 

 progress of arrangement. Many of the families and genera are 

 very complete. Among those arranged this j^ear, the UnionidiB 

 may be mentioned, consisting of 783 species and 3592 specimens 

 contained in 1555 trays. 



Dr. Hassler has continued to arrange' the duplicate specimens 

 for sale, and reports the total number of lots placed in the hands 

 of Mr. Kline to December 4, to be 4936, valued at $796. The 

 total amount received from sales is $i71. This, together with 

 sundry contributions from members, has been used in procuring 

 144 drawers, vvhich have been placed under the horizontal cases 

 to permit of the extended arrangement of the collection. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



About 863 species have been sent to Chicago to assist in replac- 

 ing the collection of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, lately de- 

 stroyed by fire, and upwards of 100 additional species are now 

 ready for transmission. These have all been correctly determined 

 and named. 



In thus announcing the completion of the labor of seven 3'ears, 

 this rei)ort would not be complete if special mention were not 

 made of the gentlemen who have devoted so much of their time 

 and skill to the work. A bare statement of the fact that every 

 one of tl)e 14,161 species contained in the collection has been 

 separately and carefully examined by Mr. Trj'^on, that he has de- 

 termined nearly' all the species not hitherto named, and verified 

 the names already given, will be sufficient to show how much the 

 Academy is indebted to him for his unflagging industry. To tlie 

 taste and skill of Mr. Parker, who has thus employed most of the 

 time not occupied by other duties, is mainly due the admirable 

 manner in which the specimens are so arranged as to exhibit the 

 specific characters without the necessity of handling. Mr. Roberts 

 has also devoted mucli of his leisure time to the same work, while 

 the report of what has been done by Dr. Hassler in the disposition 

 of the duplicates, bears ample testimony to his industry. 



It is already well known to the members of the Society that this 

 labor has been entirely voluntarv. It has been, in truth, a labor 

 of love, and the elegance of the arrangement, no less tlian the 

 comparative completeness of the collection, is sufficient evidence 

 of the earnestness with which all concerned have fulfilled their 

 self-imposed task. 



All of which is respectfull}' submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, Conservator. 



The election of OlTicers for the year 1S74 was held in accord- 

 ance with the Bj-Laws, with the following result: 



President . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.I). 



Vice-President . . Wm. S. Yaux, 



Jos. Carson, M.D. 



Recording Secretary . Samuel B. Howell, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary Edw. D. Cope. 



Librarian . . . Edw. J. Xolan, M.D. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



437 



Treasurer 

 Curalors 



Publication Committee 



Council 



Finance Committee 



Wrti. C. Henszey. 



Jos. Leidy, M D,, 

 "\Vm. S. Vaux, 

 Geo. W. Tryou, Jr., 

 Chas. F. Parker. 



Jos. Leidy, M.D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. Riischenberger, M.D. 



Robt. Bridges, M.D., 

 Edw. S. Whelen, 

 J. L. LeConte, M.D., 

 R. S. Kenderdine, M.D. 



A. H. Smith, 

 Wm. S. Vaux, 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 



ELECTIONS FOR 1873. 



The following are the names of Members aud Correspondeuts of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences elected during the year 1873. 



MEMBERS. 



January 7. Dr. Chas. A. Siegfried, Rich. H. Townsend, M.D., 

 Mrs. Caroline Peunock, Charles Macalester, Wm. B. Bemeiit, Wm. 

 Logan Fox. 



Jamiary 28, Thomas T. Yorke, Jr., Chas. Sinniokson, Howard 

 N. Potts, Dr. John J. Sinnickson, Armon D. Trimlile. 



February 25. Alfred Moore, John M. Hartmaii, Harry F. Bax- 

 ter, M.D. 



April I. Lewis Haehnlen, Nathaniel E. Janney, Peter C. 

 Erben, Richard Peterson, Mrs. Levi Morris. 



April 29. John J. Macfarlaue, Kingston G. Goddard, ]\LD., 

 Augustus R. Hall. 



3Iay 27. Dr. Thomas N. Penrose, U. S. N., C. Tower, Edward 

 Wright, William Massey, Rev. Charles E. Bettichcr. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. 



June 24. C. Eugene Claghorn, Dr. William H. Rush, Dr. 

 Henry C. Eckstein, U. S. N. 



September 30. William F. Biddle, Joseph Xeuman, Apollos 

 W. Harrison, Rev. J. B. Howell, Dr. L. S. Clark, Mrs. Louisa J. 

 Roberts, C. J. Hoffman, Andrew Alacfarlane, A.M., De Forrest 

 Willard, M.D. 



October 28. Dr. George T. Barker, Jos. C. Wright. 



Nooember 25 Dr. T. R. Wolf. 



December 30. Frank D. Lankenau, Wm. L. Sehaffer, Samuel L. 

 Smedley, Mrs. S. R. Barton, Joseph M. Fox, John Welsh, Jr., 

 Thos. H. Powers, Daniel Neall. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



January 7. Jabez Hogg, F.L.S. 



April 1. Dr. J. Dalton Hooker, of Kew, England; Andrew- 

 Garrett, of Huaheine, Society Islands. 



3Iay 27. Dr. Thos. R. Frazer, of Edinburgh; Dr. Wm. H. 

 Jones, U. S.N. 



Sejitember 30 Frank Guckert, of Ciudad Bolivar, Venezuela. 



October 28. Chas Y. Riley, of St. Louis, Mo. 



December 30. Townshend S. Brandegee, of Canon City, Colo- 

 rado; Prof. J. E. Planchon, of Montioellier, France; Prof. Burt G. 

 Wilder, of Ithaca, N. Y.; Dr. J. Henle, of Gottingen. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 439 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY. 



For 1873. 



January. J. W. Powell, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as 

 correspondent. 



Library of the State University of N. Y. ; 



Academic Royale des Sciences k Amsterdam ; 



Bureau de la Recherche Geologique de la Suede, Stockholm ; severally 

 acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Bureau of Education, Washington, soliciting statistics and acknowledging 

 receipt of pamphlets and letter. 



Belfast Naturalists' Field Club, soliciting an exchange of publications. 



F. H. Grubb, proposal to collect specimens. 



J. F. Mann, offer of brook trout spawn. 



M. C. GriSis, soliciting a catalogue of members. 



Naturwissenchaftlicher Verein, Hamburg. 



R. W. Corwin, soliciting employment as taxidermist. 



February. C. M. Scammon, acknowledging receipt of notice of election 

 as correspondent. 



F. M. Elling, with nest of humming bird. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. ; 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich ; severally acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



A. L. Rawson, offer of specimens. 



Smithsonian Institution, accompanying specimens and soliciting exchange. 



Maryland Academy of Sciences, papers relating to the establishment of 

 the society. 



Gesellschaft zur Beforderung der Gesamraten Naturwissenschaften in 

 Marburg. 



March. Liverpool Public Library, with catalogue of books. 

 A. L. Wangaman, soliciting catalogue of Academy, with constitution and 

 by-laws, etc. 



Asiatic Society, Calcutta, requesting our publications. 

 Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Danzig. 

 Nassauische Verein flir Naturkunde, Wiesbaden. 

 Soci6t6 Entomologique de Russie, St. Petersburg. 

 Academie Royale Su6doise des Sciences, Stockholm. 




440 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Soci6t6 d'Agriculture de Lyon. 



Koeuiglich Bayerische Akadcmie der Wissenchaften, Mliiiclieii. 



April. Lyceum of Natural History, N. Y. ; 



Der .Naturtbrschende Gesellscliaft, Basel, Switzerland; 



Koyal Society of London ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Scientific, Classical, and Commercial Academy, notice of visit. 



American Association for the Advancement of Science, Portland, Me., 

 abstracts of official documents. 



E. Riviere. 



Soci6t6 Paleontologique Suisse. 



Yerein fur die Erdkunde zu Darmstadt. 



Naturwissenschaftliclie Yerein fiir das Fiirsteuthum Luueburg. 



Kaiserliche Universitats Bibliothek, Strassburg. 

 . Naturwissenschaftliclie Gesellschaft zu Chemnitz. 



Gesselschaft fiir Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. 



Die Oberhessische Gessellschaft fur Natur und Heilkunde, Giessen. 



Physicalisch-medicinische Gessellschaft in Wiirzburg. 



Staatsl)ibliothek in Munchen. 



Naturwissenschaftl. Yerein zu Bremen. 



Innspruck K. K. Universitats Bibliothek. 



Das Bibliothekariat der Acad^mie der Mlinchen. 



Gessellschaft fur Naturkunde in Wurtemburg. 



Academic des Sciences et des Arts de Dijon. 



3Iay. Zoological Society of London ; 

 Boston Society of Natural History ; 

 Lyceum of Natural History, N. Y. ; 

 Smithsonian Institution ; 



Yale College; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 

 iVlinnesota Academy of Natural Sciences, Minneapolis, with constitution, 

 by-laws, etc. 



Colonial Museum, New Zealand, soliciting an exchange of publications. 



Smithsonian Institution, with specimens of mammalia iu skins and alcohol. 



Geo. ^y. C. Miller. 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Bern. 



Soci6t6 de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Genfeve. 



Die Koniylich Sachsische Gesellschaft in Leipzig. 



June. Essex Institute, Salem ; 

 Smithsonian Institution, AVashington, D. C. ; 



American Geographical Society, N. Y. ; severally ackowledging receipt of 

 publications. 



J. Cummiskey, with resignation as a member. 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft iu Emden. 




CORRESPONDENCE. 441 



Academia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali in Catania. 

 Verein fur Geographie u. Statistik zu Frankfurt. 

 Academie Royale des Sciences de Lisbonne. 

 Die physikalisch-medicitiische Societat in Erlangen. 

 Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wieii. 

 La Soci6t6 des Arts et des Sciences k Batavia. 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Emden. 

 Auftrag des Aerztlichen Vereins iu Frankfurt. 



"a 



July. Royal Dublin Society ; 



Royal Society of Edinburgh ; 



Yale College, New Haven ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool, with Proceedings and 

 soliciting publications of Academy in return. 



Leiden Astronomical Observatory, with Proceedings of the Observatory. 



Legacdo do Brazil, with copy of Mr. Emm Liais' work " Climats Geologie, 

 Faunc et Geographie botanique du Bresil." 



Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, Buffalo, notifying the Academy of 

 papers by A. R. Grote and Chas. H. Peck. 



Academie Royale des Sciences k Amsterdam. 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Freiburg. 



Der Naturforscher- Verein zu Riga. 



Societe Royale des Science et des Lettres de Throudhjem. 



G. W. Fairman, with copy of resolutions. 



Die Koniglich Sachsische Gesellschaft der "Wissenschaften, Leipzig. 



Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft, in Berlin. 



Universite Catholique de Louvain. 



L' Academie Royale des Sciences de Lisbonne. 



August. Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, acknowledging receipt of Pro- 

 ceedings. 



G. Schneider, with Catalogue of Bird Skins. 



September. Dr. W. C. Puxty, wishing to become a correspondent. 

 Ferdinandeums, Insbruck. 



October. Lyceum of Natural History, N. Y. ; 



Geological Society of London ; severally acknowledging receipt of pub- 

 lications. 



Edward Price, soliciting name of specimen. 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta, with memoirs, and soliciting the 

 Academy's publications. 



Soci6t6 d' Agriculture de Lj-on. 



Societa di I^etture, Genova. 



Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux- Arts de Bolgique^ 

 Bruxelles. 

 29 




442 CORRESPONDENCE. 



Verein fur Yaterrdiulische Naturkuude in Wiirttemberg. 

 Soci6t6 Liuneenne de Lyon. 



November. T. G. Smith, with resignation. 

 Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston ; 

 Lyceum of Natural History, N. Y. ; 

 Library of Congress ; 



Essex Institute, Salem ; severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 

 A. Garrett, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as currespoudeut. 

 Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, Pest, with publications. 

 Auftrag des Aerztlichen Vereins in Frankfurt ; 

 Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Bern ; 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Halle ; 

 Schweizerische Gesellschaft in Bern ; 

 Herbier Royale k Leide ; 



Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Bern ; 

 Det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Kjobenhavn ; 

 Die Konigl. Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wisseuschaften, Prag ; 

 Soci6t6 Royale Hongroise des Sciences Naturelles, Pest ; all accompany- 

 ing publications. 



December. American Geographical Society, N. Y. ; 

 Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. ; severally acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of publications. 

 Capt. J. Hcrschel, R. E., soliciting Sir J. F. W. Herschel's Letters. 

 Di:. Heck, with list of special collections. 

 La Soci6t6 des Arts et des Sciences k Batavia. 

 Die Senkenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt. 

 R. S. Henwood, with specimens. 



Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C, soliciting catalogue. 

 Bibliothek der Schlessischen Gesellschaft fur Vaterlandische Cultur. 



Which is respectfully submitted, 



EDWARD D. COPE, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



J 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 443 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY, 1873. 



JOURNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



NORWAY. 



Christiania. Forhandlinger i Yideuskabs Selskabet i Christiania. Aar 

 ]87L From the Society. 

 Forhandlinger ved de Skandinaviske Naturforskeres, i Christiania fra 



den 4de tilden, lOde July, 1868. From the Society. 

 Nyt Magazin for Naturvidenskaberne. Udgivet af den physiographiske 

 Forening i Christiania. 1872, 19er Binds, 1st eg 2det Heft. From 

 the Society. 

 Throndhjeni. Det Kongelige Norske Yidenskabernes Selskabs Skrifter. 

 19de Aarhundrede, 1872. From the Society. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. M6moires de la Soci6t6 Royale des Antiquaires dii Nord. 



Nouvelle Serie, 1872. From the Society. 

 Tillaeg til Aarboger for Nordisk Oldkyndighed og Historie, Aargang 



1872. Published by the same. From the Society. 

 Memoire de 1' Academic Royale de Copenhague. 5me Serie. Classe des 



Sciences. Yol. IX., Nos. 8 and 9 ; Yol. X., Nos. 1 and 2, 1872. From 



the Society. 

 Yidenskabernes Selskab Skrifter, 5 Rsekke, IX. Bd. 6 and 7, 1872. 



From the Society. 

 Oversigt over det K. Danske Yidenskabernes Selskabs Forhandlinger 



og dets Medlemmers Arbeider. Aaret, 1871 ; No. 3, 1872. From the 



Society. 



RUSSIA. 



Moscow. Bulletin de la Society Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 



Ann^e, 1872, No. 2, to 1873, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Riga. Correspondenzblatt des Naturforscher-Yereins zu Riga, 19er Jahrg. 



From the Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Bulletin de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. 

 Petersburg. Tome 18, Nos. 1-5 et dernier. 

 Memoirs of the same. Tome 18, No. 8, to Tome 19, No. 7. From the 

 Society. 





 HOLLAND. 



Amsterdam. Yerslagen en Mededeelingen der K. Akademie van Wetten- 

 shappen. Afdeeling Letterkunde, Tweede Reeks, Tvveede Deel. Af- 

 deeling Natuurkunde. Tweede Reeks, Zesde Deel, 1872. 



Jaarbock of the same, 1871. 



Processen Yerball of the same, 1871-72. 



Yerhandelingen of the same. Afdeeling Letterkunde, Zevende Deel. 

 With Atlas, 1872. From the Society. 




444 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Haag. Annalcn der Sternwarte in Leiden, 3er Band, 1872. From the 

 Observatory. 



GERMANY. 



Berlin. Archiv flir Natiirgeschichte. 3Ter Jahrg, 5es Heft, to .39er Jahrg. 



2es Heft, 1873. From the Editor. 



Berliner Entomologische Zeitschrift. Herausgegeben von dom Entomolo- 



gischen Vereine in Berlin. IGer Jahrg, 2es 4es Vierteljahrsheft, 



1872. From the Society. 



Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie der Wissenshaften zu Berlin, Aug. 



1872-Aug. 1873. From the Society. 

 Mathematische und Physikalische Abhandlungen der K. Akademie der 

 AVissenschaften zu Berlin. Aus dem Jahre., 1873. From the Society. 

 Sitzuugs-Berichte der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde zu Berlin 



im Jahre 1872. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir die Gesammten Naturwissenschaften. Neue Folge., 1872 ; 



Band V. and VI. From the Editor. 

 Zeitschrift der deutschen geologischen Gesellschaft. XXIY. Band, 2 



Heft, XXY. Band. 2 Heft. From the Society. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereins zur Befiirderung des Gartenbaues in den K. 

 P. Staaten fiir Gartnerei und Ptianzenkunde. Xos. 1-52, 1872. 

 From the Society. "^ 



Braunschweig. Archiv flir Anthropologie, 5er Band,4es; 6er Band,2es Vier- 



teljahrscheft, 1872. Purchased. 

 Bremen. XVI. Jahres-Bericht des Schwedischen Heilgymnastischen Insti- 

 tutes in Bremen, 1873. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen herausgegeben von der Xaturwissenschaftlichen Verein 

 zu Bremen. III. Band, III. Heft. 1873. From the Society. 

 Brlinn. Verhandlungen des Naturforschenden Vereins in Briinn, X. Band, 



1871. From the Society. 

 Casscl. Malakozoologische Blatter. Bd. 20, pages 49 et seq. Purchased. 

 Danzig. Schriften der naturforchenden Gesellschaft in Danzig. Neue Folge, 



3er Bandes, les Heft, 1872. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungsberichte der naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis 



in Dresden, 1872, April 1873, March. From the Society. 

 Emden. 27er Jahresbericht der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Emden, 



1871. From the Society. 



Kleine Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschraft zu Emden, XVI., 



1872. From the Society. 



Erlangen. Sitzungsberichte der physicalisch-medicinischen Societat zu 



Erlangen. 4 Heft. From the Society. 

 Frankfurt, A. M. Bericht iiber die Senckenbergische naturforschende Gesell- 

 schaft, 1871-72. From the Society. 



Abhandlungen herausgegeben von der Senckenbergischen Naturfors- 

 chenden Gesellschaft. 8er Bandes, 3 and 4 Heft, 1872. From the 

 Society. 



Jahresbericht uber die A'crwaltung des Mediciiialwesens die Kranke- 

 nanstalten und die Oeifentlichen Gesumlheitsverhaeltnisse der Stadt 

 Frankfurt, A. M. Herausgegeben von dem Aerztlichen Verein. XIV. 

 XVI. Jahrg. 1872. From the Society. 



Jaresbericht des Frankfurter Vereins fUr (Jeographie und Statistik. 

 3.oer and 36er Jahrg. 1871. From the Society. 



Der Zoologischc Garten. 13 Jahrg. 1872, No. 7-1873, No. 6. From the 

 Editor. 



Nachrichtsblatt der deutschen Malakozoologischen Gesellschaft. 4er 

 Jahrg., No. 1-6, 1872. Purchased. 



I 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 445 



Frauenfekl. Yerhandlnngen der Schweizerischen Naturforscheiiden Gesell- 



sc'haft in Fraueufeld, Jahresversammlung. Jahresbericht, 1871. From 



the Society. 



Freiburg. Berichte liber die Verhandlimgen der Naturforschenden Gesell- 



schaft zu Freiburg I. B. Band VI., Heft 1. 1873. From the Society. 



Actes de la Society Ilelvetique des Sciences Naturales. 55me Session. 



Compte-Rendu, 1872, 1873. From the Society. 



Giessen. Vierzehnter Bericht der Oberhessischen Gesellschaft fur Xatur- 



und Heilkunde, 1873. From the Society. 

 GSttingen. Nachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und 

 der Georg-Augusts Universitat aus dem Jahre 1873. From the 

 Society. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft zu Halle. 12er 



Bandes, 3es and 4es Heft, 1873. From the Society. 

 Hamburg. Abhandlungen aus dem Gebiete der Naturwissenschaftlichen 



Verein in Hamburg. V. Band, 2 and 3 Ablh. From the Society. 

 Hannover. Zweiundzwanzigster Jahresbericht der Naturhistorischeu Ge- 

 sellschaft zu Hannover. From the Society. 

 Heidelberg. Verhandlungen der naturhistorisch-medicinischen Yereins zu 



Heidelberg. 6er Balid, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Innsbruck. Zcitschrift des Ferdinandium fur Tirol und Voraelberg, 3e Folge, 



17es Heft. From the Society. 

 Konigsberg. Schriften der Koniglichen Physikalisch-Okonomischen Gesell- 

 schaft. zu Konigsberg, 12er Jahrg. 1871; ler Abth ; 13er Jahrg. 

 1872. 2e Abth. From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Archiv fur Anatomic Physiologic und Wissenschaftliche Medicin. 

 Heraussregeben von Drs. Reichertund Du Bois-Reymond, Jahrg. 1872, 

 Heft III.-1873, Heft I. Purchased. 

 Berichte uber die Verhandlungen der K. S. Gesellschaft der "Wis- 

 senschaften zu Leipzig. Mathematisch Physische Classe, 1871-IV.- 

 VII. ; 1872, I.-IL, 1872. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. Band X., Nos. III.-V., 1872. From the 



Society. 

 Jahrbuch fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik. Herausgegeben von Dr. N. 

 Pringsheim, 8er Band, 4es Heft, und 9er Band, les Heft. Purchased. 

 Journal fur Ornithologie, 20 Jahrg., Heft V.-21 Jahrg., Heft III. 



Purchased. 

 Zeitschrift flir wissenschaftliche Zoologie herausgegeben von C. T. v. 

 Siebold und Albert Kolliker, 23er Band, les and 2es Heft, 1873. 

 Purchased. 

 Luxembourg. Publication de I'lnstitute Royal de Grand Duche de Luxem- 

 bourg. Tome XIII. 1873. From the Society. 

 Marburg. Sitzungsberiehte der Gesellschaft ziir Beforderung der gesamm- 

 ten Naturwissenschaften in Marburg. Jahrg., 18G9 and 1871. 

 Schriften of the same, 9er and lOer Band. 1872. From the Society. 

 Mecklenlnirg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschrichte in 

 Mecklenburg. 26 Jahr. ; Neubrandenburg, 1873. From the Society. 

 Mlinchen. Abhandlungen der Mathematisch-physikalischen Class der K. 

 B. Akademie der Wissenschaften, lien Bandes, les Abth. Philo- 

 sophisch-philologischen Classe, 12en Bandes, 2e and 3e Abth., 1871. 

 From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberiehte der Mathematisch-physikalischen Classe dor K. B. 

 Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Miinchen. 1871, Heft. III., 1872, 

 Heft. I. and II. Inhaltverzeichniss zu Jahrg. 1860-1870, of the 

 same. From the Society. 




446 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



XII. Siipplementband zu den Annalen der Miinchen Sternwarte, 



1872. From the Observatory. 

 Nurnberg. Abhandhingeri der Naturhistorischen Gesellschaft zu Nurn- 



berg V-. Band., 1872. From tbe Society. 

 Pest. A Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia Ertesetoje. Otodik Evfolyam 



10 Szani., Hatodik Evfolyam 8 Szam. From the Society. 

 Ertekezesek a Mathematikai Tudonianyok Korebol. Kiadja a Magyar 



Tudomanyok Akad6mia. YIII. Szam, 1871. II. Kotet, 1 Szam, 



1872. 

 Termeszettudomanyok Korebel. IX Szam., 1871. III. Kbtet. III. 



Szam, 1872. 71-72. From the Society. 

 Termeszettudomanyi Kbzlouy. IV. Kbtet, Jan. Dec. 1872. From the 



Hungarian Academy. 

 A. M. T. Akademia Erkonyvei. Tizenharmodik Ki3tet. III. Darab. 



Pesten, 1872. From the Society. 

 M. Tudom. Akademia Almanach, 1872. Pesten, 1872. From the 



Society. 

 Prag. Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Gesellschaft der AVissenschaften in Prag. 



Jahrg. 1871 and Jahrg. 1872 Jan.-July. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen der K. B. Gesellschaft der'Wissenschaften von Jahre 



1871-72. Sechste Folge, 5er Band. Prag. 1872. From the Society. 

 Regensburg. Flora oder allgemeine botanische Zeitung, herausgegeben von 



der K. B. botan. Gesellschaft in Regensburg. Neue Reihe, 30 Jahrg. 



1872. From the Society. 

 Correspondeuz-Blatt des Zoologisch-Mineralogischen Yereins in Re- 

 gensburg, 26er Jahrg.. 1872. From the Society. 

 Stettin. Eutomologische Zeitung. Herausgegeben von dem entomolo- 



gische Vereins zu Stettin, 30er Jahrg., 1872. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neues Jahrbuch fur Mineralogie, Geologic und Palaeontologie, 



Jahrg. 1872, 4es 1873, 3es Heft. From the Editor. 

 Wiirttembergische naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte, 28er Jahrg. 1 



29er Jahrg. 3es Heft. From the Society. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrbucher des Nassauischen Yereins fiir Naturkunde. Jahrg. 



XXY, and XXYI., 1871 and 1872. From the Society. 

 Wurzburg. Yerhandlungen der Physical.-Medicinische Gesellschaft. III. 



Band, 3 Heft. lY. Band, 1 Heft. From the Society. 

 Vienna. Yerhandlungen der K. K. Geologischen Reichsaustalt, 1872, No. 



111873, No. 6. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. Band Y., Heft 4. 

 Jahrbuch of the same. Jahrg. 1872, No. 3-1873, No. 1. From the 



Society. 

 General Register der Bande XI.-XX. der Jahrbuches und der Jahr- 



gange, 1840-70, der Yerhandlungen der K. K. Geologischen Reichsan- 



stalt, 1872. From the Society. 

 Zeitschrift der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathematisch-Na- 



turwissenschaftliche Classe. LXX. Band, 1-3 Abthcil, 1872. From 



the Society. 

 Register zu den banden 61 bis 64 der Sitzungsbericht, YII., 1872. 



From the Society. 

 Denkschriften der K. Akademie der "Wissenschaften. Mathem.-Naturw. 



Classe, 32er Band, 1872. From the Society. 

 Yerhandlungen der K. K. Zoologische botanischen Gesellschaft in 



Wein. Jahrg. 1872. XXII. Band, 1872. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 441 



SWITZERLAND, 



Basel. Yerhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Basel. 5er 



Theil, 4es Heft, 1873. From the Editor. 

 Bern. iSIittheilungen der naturforschen Gesellschaft in Bern aus dem 



Jahren 1871-1872. From the Society. 

 Genfeve. Bulletin de I'Institute National Genevois. No. 36, Vol. XVII. 



Pages 1-216, 1872. From the Society. 

 Menioires de la Soci6t6 de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Genfeve. 



Tome XXI., 2e Partie. Tome XXII. From the Society. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Society Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles, 2e Serie. 



Vols. XI. and XII. From the Society. 

 Neufchatel. Bulletin de la Society des Sciences Naturelles de Neufchatel. 



Tome IX., 2e Cahier, 1872. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht liber die Thatigkeit der St. Gallischen naturwissen- 



schaftlichen Gesellschaft wiihrend des Vereinsjahres, 1871-72. 1873. 



From the Society. 

 Zurich. Vierteljahrsschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Zurich. 



16er Band, 1871. From the Society. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Annuaire de I'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres, et 

 des Beaux- Arts de Belgique, 38e and 39e Annee, 1872-73. 

 Bulletins of the same, 2me Serie. Tomes 32, 33, and 34, 1871-72. 

 Memoires Courounes of the same. 8vo., Tome 22, 1872. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Memoirs of the same. 

 Centifeme Anniversaire de Fondation of the same, 1772-1872. Tomes 



1 and 2, 1872. From the Society. 

 Soci6te Malacologique de Belgique, Procfes- Verbal. P. P. 83 et seq. 



Tome 1. 1872. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Soci6te Entomologique de Belgique. 'J'omes 14me- 

 15me. From the Society. 

 Li^ge. Memoires de la Soci^tl Royale des Sciences de Liege. 2me S6rie. 



Tome III., 1873. From the Society. 

 Louvain. Annuaire de I'Universite Catholique de Louvain, 1837, 1871- 



1873. From the Society. 

 Mons. Memoires et Publications de la Soci6te des Sciences, des Arts et des 

 Lettres du Hainaut. III. Serie, Tomes 6me-8me, From the Society. 



FRANCE, 



Angers. Memoirs de la Soci6t6 Nationale d' Agriculture, Science et Arts 

 d' Angers (Nouvelle Periode). Tome Quinzi^me, 1872, Nos. 2-4, 

 1872. From the Society. 



Auxerre. Bulletin de la Soci6t6 des Sciences Historiques et Naturelles de 

 I'Yonne, Annee 1872. 26e Vol., 1873. From the Society. 



Bordeaux. Memoire de la Society des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles de 

 Bordeaux. Tomes VIIL, IX. From the Society. 



Caen, Memoirs de 1' Academic Nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Let- 

 tres de Caen. From the Society. 



Lille. M6moirs de la Soci6te des Sciences, de 1' Agriculture ot des Arts de 

 Lille, Annee, 1872. Ille S6rie, lOe Vol., 1873. From the Society. 



Lyon. Annales de la Soci6t6 Linn^enne de Lyon, Annies 1870-72. Nou- 

 velle S^rie. Tomes 18me et 19me. From the Society. 




448 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Annales de la Societe d'Aajriculture, Histoire Naturelle et Arts Utiles 



de Lyon. 4me Srie. Tomes 2ine et 8me. From the Society. 

 M6inoircs de rAcad^mie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de Lyon. 

 Classe des Sciences. Tomes 18me et 19me, 1870-71. From the 

 Society. 

 Orleans. Memoires de la Soci6t6 d' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles-Lettres 

 et Arts d'Orleans. Tome XIV., No. 4, to Tome XV., No. 2. From 

 the Society. 

 Paris. Archives de Zoologie Exp^riraentale et generale. Tome 1 and Tome 



2, Nos. 1 and 2. Purchased. 



Actes de I'Academie Nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts de 



Bordeaux. 3e Serie, 33e Annee, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Societe Entomologique de France. 4me. Serie. Tome 



lOme. Partie Supplementaire, 5me Serie. Tome 2me, 1872. From 



the Society. 

 Annales des Mines. 7me Serie. Tome III., 3me Livr, 1873. Table 



des Matieres, 1862-1871. From the Minister of the Pu))lic Works, 



France. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. 5me S6rie. Zoologie, Tome XVIL, 



No. 1, to Tome XVIII., No. 6. Botanique Tome XV.. Nos. 1-6. 



Tome XVI., No. 1, to Tome XVIIL, No. 3, 1872. Purchased. 

 Bulletin mensuel de la Societe d'Acclimatation. 2me Serie. Tome IX., 



No. 8. to Tome X., No. 9. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Botanique de France. Tome 18me, 1871. Comptes 



rendus des Stances 4, 1872, 1-4, Revue Bibliographique A. E. From 



the Society. 

 Bulletin des Stances de la Society Centrale d' Agriculture de France. 



3me S6rie. Tomes III.-VII., 1858-72. From the Society. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e S6rie. Tome XII., No. 4, to Tome 13, 



No. 4, 1872-3. From the Editor. 

 Journal de Zoologie. Par M. Paul Gervais. Tome Irae, No. 5, to Tome 



2me, No. 4. Purchased. 

 Revue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etranger, Nos. 22-52. From 



the Editor. 

 Toulouse. M6moires de I'Academie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles- 

 Lettres de Toulouse. 7me S6rie. Tome IV., 1872. From the Society. 



PORTUGAL. 



Lisbon. Historia e Memorias da Academia Real das Sciences de Lisboa. 

 Classe de Sciences Moraes, Politicas e licllas-Lettras Nova Serie. 

 Tomes I. Tome II., Part II. Tome III., Part I. Classe de Sci- 

 encias Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes Tomes 1 and 2. Tome 



3, Part I. Tome 4, 1855-1871. From the Society. 



Journal de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturaes publicado os 

 auspicios da Academia Real das Sciencias de Lisboa. Tomes 1-3, 

 and Nos. 11-15, 1869-73. From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto delle Sessioni deirAccademia dello Scionzc dell' Isti- 



tuto di Bologna. Anno. Accadeinico, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Memorie of the same. Serie III. Tome I., No. 2, to Tome II., No. 2, 



1872. From the Society. 

 Firenze. Atti della Reale Accademia economico agraria del Georgofili di 



Firenze. 4ta Serie, Vol. 1, Disp. 2 ; Vol. 2, Disp. 2, 1872. From 



the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



44^ 



Lucca. Atti della Reale Accademia Lucchcse di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 



Tome 19, 1873. From the Society. 

 Milano. Memoirs Reale Istituto Lombardo de Scienze e Lettere. Vol XIL 



Fasc. 3-5, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti. Seric IT. 



From Vol. IV. Fasc. 14 to Vol. VI. Fasc. V. 1871-73. From the 



Society. 

 Atti della Fondazione Scieutifica Cagnola. Vol. V., Fart 3, 1871. 



From the Society. 

 Napoli. Atti del Reale Istituto d'Incoraggiamento alle Scienze. 2a Serie. 



Tome VIII., Fart 1. From the Society. 

 Lorino. Cosmos di Guido Cora. II., 1873. From the Society. 

 Venezia. Atti del Reale Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. 



From Serie Terza. Tome 14, Disp. 7me, to Serie Quarto Tomo 2, Disp. 



5, 1868-1872. From the Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Belfast. Proceedings of the Belfast Natural History and Philosophical 



Society. Session 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Sixth, Eight, Ninth, and Tenth Annual Reports of the Belfast Natu- 

 ralists' Field Club, 1868-69, 1870-71, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Dublin. The Journal of the Royal Dublin Society, Vol. VI., No. II., 1872. 



From the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Vol. 13, Part 3, 



1872-73. From the Society. 

 Edinburgh. Transactions of the Edinburgh Geological Society. Vol. II., 



Parts I. and II., 1872. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vol. 2G, Part IV. 



Proceedings, Sessions 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the Botanical Society. Vol. I. Vol. II., Part III. 



Vols. III., IV., and V., 1841-1856, and Vol. IX., Part II. From the 



Society. 

 Glasgow. Proceedings of ,^ the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, 1871-72. 



Vol. VIIL, Nos. I. and II., 1872. From the Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liver- 

 pool. No. XXVI., 1872. From the Society. 

 London. Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 85-95. 



From the Publisher. 

 The Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 4th Series. Vol. 10, No. 



60, to Vol. 11, No. 66. Purchased. 

 The London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and 



Journal of Science. From Vol. 44, No. 295 to Vol. 45, No. 302, 



Purchased. 

 The Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Nos. 109-120 Jan.- 



Dec. 1872. Purchased. 

 The Food Journal. No. 36, Vol. III. Jan. 1873, to No. 46, Vol. IV. 



From the Editor. 

 The Ibis, 3d Series. Vol. II., No. 8, to Vol. III., No. 12. Purchased. 

 Nature. Nos. 166-177, and 184-188. From the Editor. 

 Journal of Applied Science. No. 38, Vol. IV. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. Second Series. No. XI. 



Nov. 1872. Purchased. 

 Transactions of the Geological Society of London. Vol. VIIL, Parts 



4 and 5, 1873. From the Society. 




450 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. 28, Part 4, 



to Vol. 29. Part 3. From the Society. 

 List of the same. 1872. From the Society. 



Journal of the Society of Arts. Vol. 20, 1871-72. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Chemical Society. Ser. 2. Vol. IX. Aug. 1872, to Oct. 



1873. From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



Vol. VI., Parts I. and II.. 1872. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society of 



London for the year 1872. Parts II. and III, 

 Index to the same' 18G1-1870. 



Transactions of the same. Vol. 8, Part 3, 1872. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the Eoyal Geographical Society. Vol. 16, No. III. 



to Vol. XVII, No. 1. 

 Journal of the same. Vol. 41, 1871. 

 Classified Catalogue of the Library of the same, to Dec. 1870. 1872. 



From the Society 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. XX., Nos. 130-138. From 



the Society. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the same. Vol. 161, Part II. to Vol. 162, 



Part I. From the Society. 

 Notes and Queries. Parts 58-65. Nov. 1872-May 1873. From the 



Society. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Vol. VI., Pts. 



5 and 6. From the Society. 

 Report of the 42d Meeting of the British Association for the Ad- 

 vancement of Science held at Brighton in August, 1^72. Purchased. 

 The Zoological Record for 1871. Edited by Alfred Newton. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 



and Durham. Vol. IV., Part 2, 1872. From the Society, 



UNITED STATES AND CANADA. 



Albany. Proceedings of the Seventh and Eighth Anniversaries of the Uni- 

 versity Convocation of the State of New York, 1871 and 1872. From 

 the Trustees. 



Annals of Dudley Observatory. Vol. II., 1871. From the same. 



Eighteenth, Nineteenth, Twentieth, Twenty-first, 'I'wenty-Second. and 

 'J'wenty-fourth Annual Reports of the Regents of the University of the 

 State of New York on the Condition of the State Cabinet of Natural 

 History. 1865-69.71. From the Regents. 



Fifty-fifth Annual Re])ort of the Trustees of the New York vState 

 Library. 1873. From the Trustees. 

 Baltimore. Sixth Annual Report of the Provost to the Trustees of the 

 Peabody Institute of the City of Baltimore, 1873. From the 

 Institute. 

 Boston. Proceedings of the American Academy of Arts and Science. Vol. 

 VIII., pp. 409-504. From the Society. 



Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. XV., Parts 

 1 and 2. 1872. From the Society. 



Meniiiirs of the Boston Society of Natural History, Vol, II., Part 2, 

 No. 3. 1873. From the Society. 

 Bufifalo. Bulletin of the Buttalo Society of Natural Sciences. 1873. Vol. 

 I,, Nos. 1-3. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 451 



Cambridge. Memoirs of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 New Series. Vol. IX., Part 2. 1873. From the Society. 

 Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science. Twenty-first Meeting. August, 1872. From the Asso- 

 ciation. 

 Sixth Annual Report of the Trustees of the Peabody Museum of Ameri- 

 can Archaeology and Ethnology. 1873. From the Trustees. 

 Chicago. First Annual Report of the Chicago Public Library. 1873. 



From the Directors. 

 Halifax. Proceedings and Transactions of the Nova Scotia Institution of 



Natural Science. Vol. III., Parts 1-3. From the Society. 

 Harrisburg. The Annual Proceedings of the Pennsylvania Fruit Growers' 



Society for the Year 1872. From the Society. 

 London. The Canadian Entomologist. Vol. IV., No. 7 to Vol. V., No. 11. 



From the Author. 

 Madison. Transactions of Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts, and 



Letters. 1870-2. From the Society. 

 Minneapolis. Constitution and By-Laws of Minnesota Academy of Natural 



Sciences. 1873. From the Society. 

 Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist. New Series. Vol. VII., Nos. 1-3. 



1873. From the Editor. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. Third Series. 



Vol. v., No. 24, to Vol. VI., No. 36. From the Editor. 

 New York. Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Vol. 111., No. 7, to 

 Vol. IV., No. 10. From Thos. Meehan. 

 The New York Medical Journal. Vol. XVIL, No. 1, to Vol. XVIIL, 



No. 6. From the Editor. 

 The Popular Science Monthly. Nos. 10-21. 1873. From the Editor. 

 Philadelphia. Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at 

 the Twentieth Annual Meeting, 1873. From the Association. 

 The American Chemist. Vol. III., 6, to Vol. IV., No. 6. 1873. From 



the Editor. 

 The Americal Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. XLV., Nos. 1-12. Fourth 



Series. From the Editor. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Edited by Isaac Hays, 



M.D. Nos. 129-132. New Series. From the Editor. 

 The Medical News and Library. Vol. XXXI., Nos. 361-371. From 



the Editor. 

 The Dental Cosmos. Vol. XV., Nos. 1-12. From the Editor. 

 The Gardeners' Monthly. Vol. XV., Nos. 1-12. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. LXV., Part 1, to Vol. 



LXVL, Part 6. From the Editor. 

 The Penn Monthly. Vol. IV., Nos. 37-48. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. No. 89 and 90. 



From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Vol. X. The 

 Penn and Logan (/orrespondence. Vol. II. From the Society. 

 Quebec. Le Naturaliste Cauadien. Vol. IV., No. 12, to Vol. V., No. 11. 

 From the Editor. 

 Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec. Session 

 of 1872 and 1873. New Series. Part 10. 1873. From the Society. 

 Salem. The American Naturalist. Vol. Vll., No. 3, toA^ol. VIII., No. 2. 

 From the Editor. 

 Bulletin of the Essex Institution. Vol. IV., No. 7, to Vol. V., No. 8. 

 From the Society. 




452 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Fifth Annual Eoport of the Trustees of the Peaboily Academy of 

 Hcienoe, for the year 1872. From the <S^ociety. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences. Yol. 



IV., Part 4, and Vol. V.. Part 1. 

 St. Louis. 'J'he Transactions of the Academy of Science of St. Louis. Vol. 



IIL, No. 1. 1873. From the Society. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. Vol. 

 XIII.. No. 5, to Vol. XIV., No. 1. From the Editors. 

 The Canadian Ornithologist. Vol, I., No. 1. 1873. From the 



Editor. 

 Report of the Entomological Society of Ontario. 1872. From the 

 Society. 

 Washington. Annual of the National Academy of Sciences for 186C. Cam- 

 bridge, 1867. 

 Letter of the Vice-President of the National Academy of Sciences, 

 communicating the Proc. of the Academy during the year 1866. 

 From S. F. Baird. 

 Monthly Report of the Chiefs of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Dep, 



Nov. 1872, to Apr. Is73. From the Department. 

 Reports of the Commissioner of Agriculture. 1862-1871, inclusive. 

 From the Agricultural Department. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. Oct. 21, 

 1872, and Oct. 30, 1873. From the Society. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal-Land-en Volkenkunde uitgegeven 



door het Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappcn. 



Deel XVIIL, Afl. 2-6. Deel XIX., and Deel XX., Afl. 1-3. 



1870-72. 

 Notulen of the same. Deel VIIL, No. 2. Deel IX., Deel X., Nos. 



1-3. 

 Eerste Verloog Catalogns der Bibliothek of the same. 1872. 

 Yerhandlungen of the same. Deel XXXIV.-XXXVI. From tiie 



Society. 

 Calcutta. Proceedings of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. No. 2, 1872, and 



Nos. 2-4, 1873. From Isaac Lea. 

 Journal of the same. New Series. Vol. XLL, Nos. 173-177. From 



Isaac Lea. 

 Shanghai. .Tonrnal of the North China Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society 



for 1871 and '72. New Series. No. 8, 1873. From the Society. 

 A Catalogue of the Library of the same. By Henri Cordier. 1872. 



From the Society. 



AUSTRALIA. 



Wellington. Transactions and Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute, 

 1872. Vol. v., 1873. From the Society. 

 Transactions and Proceedings of the New Zealand Institute. Vol. II., 

 III., and IV., 1870-72. From the Society. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 453 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC AYORKS. 



Agassiz, Alex. Illustrated Catalogue of the Museum of Comparative 



Zoology at Harvard College. No. VII. Revision of the Echini. 



Parts I, II. Texts and Plates. 1872. From the Directors of the 



Museum. 

 Barrande, Joachim. Crustaces divers et Poissons des Depots Siluriens de 



la Boheme. 1872. From the Author. 

 Bastian. H. Charlton. The Beginnings of Life. 2 vols. New York, 1872. 



Purchased. 

 Beitrage zur Statistik der Stadt. Frankfurt, A. M. 2er Band, 4es Heft., 



1871. From the Society. 

 Benson, Lawrence S. Reply to Criticism on Benson's Geometry. Notes on 



First Book of Benson's Geometry, New York, 1873. From the 



Author. 

 Bergh, Dr. Rud. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen von Dr. C. Semper. 



2er Theil, 2er Band. Malacologische Untersuchungen. 5 Heft. 



Wiesbaden. 1872. Purchased. 

 Berlepsch, Hans Graf v. Zur Ornithologie der Provinz Santa Catharina, 



Slid Brasilien. From the Author. 

 Beverly. H. Report of the Censors of Bengal, 1872. Calcutta, 1872. 



From the Author. 

 Binney. W. G. Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Vol. 



III.. No. 9. Catalogue of Terrestrial Air-Breathing MoUusca of 



North America. From the Author. 

 Bland, Thos., and Binney, W. G. On Prophysaon. a new Pulmonate Mol- 



lusk, on Ariolimax, on Helix lychnuchus, and other species. From 



W. G. Binney. 

 On the Lingual Dentition of Gocotis. From the Authors. 

 On the Lingual Dentition and Jaw of Certain Terrestrial Pulmonata, 



From the Authors. 

 On the Relations of certam Genera of Terrestrial MoUusca of. or re- 

 lated to, the Sub-family Succininaj, with notes on the Lingual Denti- 

 tion of Succinea appendieulata Pfr. From W. G. Binney. 

 Bleeker. P. Atlas Ichthyologique des Indies Orientales N^erlandaises. 



Livr. 26. Amsterdam. 1872. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Blumenbach, D. Johr. Fr. Handbuch der Naturgeschichte, Sechste Auflage. 



Gottingen, 1799. From Mrs. Griffith. 

 Bocages. J. V. Barboza zu. Memoira sobre a Cabra, Montez da Serra de 



Gerez. Peto Socio J. V. Barbosa du Bocage. Lisboa, 18.57. From 



the Author. 

 Boeck, Axel. De Skandinaviske og Arktiske Amphipoder. Iste Hefte. 



Christiania, 1872. From the Author. 

 Borscow, El. Die Susswasser-Bacillariaceen Diatomaceen des Sud-Westli- 



chen Russlands, 1873. Purchased. 

 Brefeld, Dr. Oscar. Botanische Untersuchungen liber Schimnielpilze. 1 



Heft. Leipzig, 1872. Purchased. 

 Breithaupt, Prof. Dr. A. Die Paragencsis der Mineralien. Freiberg, 1849.- 



Purchased. 

 Broadhead, G. C. Meek, F. B., Shumard, B. F. Geological Survey of 



Missouri, 18.5.5-1871. 1872. Raphael Pumpclly, Director. 2 vols. 



4to., and atlas folio. From C. J. Norwood. 

 Brot, A., M.I). Notice sur les M^lanies de Lamarck conservi's dans le 

 Mus^e Delessert et sur quelques espfeces nouvelles ou peu Connues. 

 Genfeve, 1872. From the Author. 




454 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Bull, Dr. 0. B., Hansen, Dr. G. A. The Leprous Diseases of the Eye, 



with six Colored Plates. Christiania, 1873. From the Authors. 

 Buller, Walter Lawry. A History of the Birds of New Zealand. Parts 



I.-V. London. Purchased. 

 Burnett, Chas. H., M.D. A Contribution to the Comparative Distributions 



of Bloodvessels in the Menibrana Tympani. From the Author. 

 Calkins, W. W. Catalogue of Living Illinois MoUusca. Chicago, 1872. 



From the Author. 

 Capellini, Prof. Comm. G. Sul Felsinoterio Sirenoide Halicore forme del 



depositi Littorali Pliocenici dell Antico Bacino del Mediterraneo e 



del Mar Nero. Bologna, 1872. From the Author. 

 Capello, Felix de Brito. Descripqao de Algumas especies novas ou pouco 



conhecidas de Crustaceos e Arachnidios de Portugal e possessoes 



Portuguezas do ultramar. Lisboa, 1866. From the Author. 

 Descripcao de tres especies novas de Crustaceos da Africa occidental. 



Lisboa, 1864. From the Author. 

 Carey, H. C. The Unity of Law ; as exhibited in the Relations of Physical, 



Social, Mental, and Moral Science. Philadelphia, 1872. From the 



Author. 

 Carpenter, Horace J. A Catalogue of the Shell-bearing Mollusca of 



Rhode Island. From the Author. 

 Carpenter. J. P. The MoUusks of Western North America. Washington, 



1872. From the Author. 

 Carus, J. Victor. Geschichte der Zoologie bis auf Joh. Muller und Charl. 



Darwin. Munchen. 1872. Purchased. 

 Catalogue of Scientific Papers published by the Philosophical Society. 



Vol. VI. London, 1872. From the Society. 

 Catalogue of the Museum of the Chicago Medical College. Chicago, 1873. 



From the College. 

 Catalogue of a Series of Photographs from the Collections of the British 



Museum. London, 1872. From the Publishers. 

 Catalogue of the Paintings and other Objects of Interest belonging to the 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. 1872. From the Society. 

 Catalogue of Books added to the Library of Congress during the year 1871. 



Washington, 1872. From the Librarian. 

 Catalogue of the Liverpool Free Public Library. 4to. Liverpool, 1S72. 



From the OQicers of the Library. 

 Chauveau, A. The Comparative Anatomy of the Domesticated Animals. 



Translated by Geo. Fleming. New York, 1873. Purchased. 

 Circular of Information of the Bureau of Education. July, 1871, to Nov. 



1872. Washington, 1871. From John Eaton. Jr., Commissioner. 

 Claparfede, fidouard. Rocherches sur la Structure dcs Ann61ides Sedontaires. 



Genfeve, 1873. Purchased. 

 Cocchi, Igino. Nuova Famiglia di Pesci Labroidi ; Studi Paleontologici. 

 Sulla Geologia dell' Alta valle de Magra. 

 Brcvi Cenni sui Principali Instituti e Comitati Geologici e sul R. Comi- 



tata Geologico d'ltalia. 

 Descrizione Geologica dell' Isola d'Elba. Firenzc, 1871. 

 T/Uomo P'ossile nell' Italia Centrale. Studi Paleontologici. 

 Delia vera Posizione Stratigrafica dei Marnii Saccaroidi delle Alpi 



Apuane. Tirenze, 1871. 

 Note Geologische sopra Cosa, Orbetella e Monte Argentario nclla Pro- 



vincia di Groscto. Tirenze, 1871. 

 Due Momorie Geologische sulla Val di Magra. Firenze, 1870. From 



the Author through Mr. A'^aux. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 455 



Colvin, Yerplanck. Report on a Topot^rapliical Survey of tlio Adirondack 



Wilderness of New York. Albany, 1873. From the Author. 

 Cooke, M. C. Hand-book of British Fungi. 2 vols. Loudon, 187 L. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Courad. T. A. Descriptions of New Genera and Species of Fossil Shells 



of North Carolina in the State Cabinet at Raleigh, N. C. From the 



Author. 

 Conrad's Fossil Shells of the Tertiary Formation of North America. 



Nos. 1 and 2. From D. B. Smith. 

 Cope, Edw. D. Comparative Anatomy. From the Author. 



On the Osteology of the Extinct Tapiroid Hyrachyus. From the 



Author. 

 Paleontological Bulletins. Nos. 1-15 and 17. From the Author. 

 On the Primitive Types of the Orders of Mammalia Educabilia. From 



the Author. 

 On the Short-footed Ungulata of the Eocene of Wyoming. From the 



Author. 

 Synopsis of New Yertebrata from the Tertiary of Colorado, obtained 



during the Summer of 1873. Washington, 1873. From the Author. 

 Coues. Elliott. Key to North American Birds. Salem. 1872. Purchased. 

 Cresson, E. T. Hymenoptera Texana. From the Author. 

 Curtis, Dr. Edw. The Protoplasm Theory. New York, 1873. From the 



Author. 

 Dall, W. H. Notes on the Avi-Fauna of the Aleutian Islands, from Una- 



laska. Eastward. San Francisco, 1873. From the Author. 

 Preliminary Descriptions of Three New Species of Cetacea from the 



Coast of California. From the Author. 

 Remarks of W. H. Dall, and Resolutions of the California Academy of 



Sciences on the death of Dr. John Torrey, April, 1873. From the 



Author. 

 Dana, Jas. D. On some Results of the Earth's Contraction from Cooling. 



From the Author. 

 On the Glacial and Champkin Eras in New England. From the Editor. 

 Dalton. Edw. Taite. Descriptive Ethnology of Bengal. Calcutta. 1872. 



From the Government of Bengal through the Royal Asiatic Society 



of Bengal. 

 Darwin, Chas. The Expression of the Emotions of Man and Animals. 



New York, 1873. Purchased. 

 Darwin, Erasmus. Zoonomia. New York, 1796. From Mrs. Griffith. 

 Dawson, J. W. The Story of the Earth and Man. New York, 1873. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Report on the Fossil Plants of the Lower Carboniferous and Millstone 



Grit Formations of Canada. Montreal, 1873. From the Author. 

 De Candolle, Alphonse. Prodromus Systematis Naturalis Regni Yegetabilis. 



Pars Decima Septima. Parisils, 1873. From the Wilson Fund. 

 De Hominis exaltatione ad Ordinem Supernaturalem, etc., and 25 Theological 



Tracts. From the University of Louvain. 

 Deshayes, G. P. Descriptions de quelques Animaux de la Famille des 



Trochides des Cotes de I'Alg^rie. Purchased. 

 Deitrich, Kasper. Systematisches aufgefundenen Kafcr. Zurich, 1865. 



From IT. Erni. 

 Dunker und Zittol. Dr. Palseontographica. 20er Band, 5e und Hste Lief. 



20er Band. 2 Abth. 2e und 3er Lief 22er Band, le und 3e Lief. 



Cassel, 1873. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Egleston, Prof. T. Catalogue of Minerals. New York, 1871. From the 



Author. 




456 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Elliot, 1). Gr. ^ronosrrapli of the Pluisiaiiidie or Family of the Pheasants. 



Parts 1-6. complete. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Monograph of the Family of Paradiseidae or Birds of Paradise. Parts 



1, 2; 3. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Engleman, Geo., M.D. Notes on the Genus Yucca. From the Author. 

 Fatio, Victor. Faune des Vertebres de la Suisse. Vols. I. and III. Ge- 



nfeve et Bale, 1869. Purchased. 

 Fifty-two Bibliographical Pamphlets. 



Figuier, Louis. The Ocean World. New York. Purchased. 

 Finsch, M. 0. Description d'une Nouvelle Espfece de Perruche (Tricho- 



glossus Josefinaj). From the Author. 

 On a new American Parrot of the genus Chrysotis. From the Author. 

 Frauenfeld. G. P. von. Die Frage des Vogelschutzes. Wien, 1872. From 



the Author. 

 Piiylloxera vastalrix. 



Zoologische Miscellen. XVI. and XVII. From the Author. 

 French, Eliz. J. A New Path in Electrical Therapeutics. Philadelphia, 



1873. From the Author. 

 Alcohol an Enemy to Health, Morals, and Happiness. From the 



Author. 

 Gabb, Wm. M. On the Topography and Geology of Santo Domingo. 4to., 



Philadelphia, 1873. From the Author. 

 Gannett, Henry. Meteorological Observations during the year 1872, in 



Utah, Idaho, and Montana. Prepared for publication by Henry 



Gannett. Washington, 1873. From the Department of the Interior. 

 List of Elevations in that portion of the United States west of the 



Mississippi River. Collated and arranged by Henry Gannett. 



Washington, 1873. From the Department of the Interior. 

 Gegenbaur, Dr. Carl. Untersuchungen zur vergleichenden Anatomie der 



Wirbelthiere. 3es Heft. Leipzig, 1873. Purchased. 

 Geinitz, Dr. H. Bruno. Das Konigliche Miueralogische Museum zu Dresden, 



1873. From the Author. 

 Genth, F. A. Corundum, its alterations and associated Minerals. From 



the Author. 

 Geological Survey of India, Records of the. Vol. V., Parts 1-4, 1872. 



Calcutta. From the Survey. 

 Geological Survey of India, Memoirs of the. 8vo. Vols. VIII. and IX. 



Calcutta, 1872. From the Survey. 

 Geological Survey of Intlia, Memoirs of the. Palajontologia Indica, Cre- 

 taceous Fauna of Southern India. Vol. IV. 1 and 2. 4to., Calcutta, 



1872. From the Survey. 

 Gerstaecker, Dr. A. Bericht uber die wissenschaftlichen Leistungen im 



Gebiete der Entomologie wahrend des Jahros 1S7(). und w'ahrend 



der Jahre 1861) und 1870. Berlin, 1873. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Girard, Dr. Ch. Principcs de Biologie appli(iues ^ la Medccine. Paris, 



1872. From the Author. 

 La Vie au point de vue jjhysique ou Physiog^nie Philosophique. Paris, 



1860. From the Author. 

 Glaishcr. Jas. The Atmosph(>re. Translated from the French of Camilla 



Flammarion. New York, 1873. Purchased. 

 Glover, Townsend. Illustrations of North American Entomology, Orthop- 



tera. Washington, 1872. From the Author. 

 Gould. J. The Birds of Great Britain. Parts XXI. and XXII. 



The Birds of Asia. Part XXIV. Purchased. 

 Grattarola, (i., Monro, F., Alessanilri, A. Tagiio del A' iale dei Colli a 



Firenze per gli ingegneri. From the Authors, through Mr. A''aux. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 457 



Gray, G. R. Hand-List of Genera and Species of Birds. Part I. London, 



1869. Purchased. 

 Grote, Aug. R. On the Butterflies of Anticosti. From the Author. 

 Guillemin, Aniedee. The Forces of Nature, a popular introduction to the 



Study of Physical Phenomena. New York, 1872. Purchased. 

 Haeckel, Ernst. Pie Kalkschwiimme. Bine Monographic. Bands 1, 2, 



and 3. Berlin, 1873. Purchased. 

 Hammond. Wm. A., M.D. Insanity in its relations to Crime. New York, 



1873. From Messrs. Appleton & Co. 

 Hanley, Sylvanus and Theobald Wm. Conchologia Indica. Part V. 



From the Wilson Fund. 

 Hartshorne, Henry, M.D. On the Present Condition of Yaso-motor Phy- 

 siology. 

 On the Relation between Organic Vigor and Sex. From the Author. 

 Haughton, Rev. Samuel. Principles of Animal Mechanics. 2d edition. 



London, 1873. From the Author. 

 Hayden, F. Y. Sixth Annual Report of the United States Geographical 



Survey of the Territories for the year 1872. Washingtoa, 1873. 



From the Author. 

 Hayes, John L. Review of Alcan on the Manufacture of Wool. 

 The Fleece and the Loom. 

 The Angora Goat. 

 Notes upon Indigo. 

 The Solidarity of the Industries. 

 Protective Question at Home. 

 Protective Question Abroad. 

 Protection a Boon to Consumers. From the National Association of 



Wool Manufacturers. 

 Heis, Wilhelm. Untersuchungen uber das Ei und die Eientwickelung, bei 



Knocheuenfischen. Leipzig, 1872. Purchased. 

 Hermans, Johanne. Tabula Affin[tatum Auimalium. Argeutorati, 1783. 



From Mrs. Griffith. 

 Hetting, M. G. Die Fisch-Cultur Norwegens. From the Author. 

 Hewitson, W. C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 82-88. From the Wilson 



Fund. 

 Hitchcock, C. II. Report of the Geological Survey of the State of New 



Hampshire during the year 1872. Nashua, 1873. From the Author. 

 Hobart, Lord. The " Mission" of Richard Cobden. London, 1873. From 



the Cobden Club. 

 Hough, Franklin B. Results of a Series of Meteorological Observations 



made under instructions from the Regents of the University. Pre- 

 pared from the original returns. Albany, 1872. From the Regents. 

 Hough, John Stockton, M.D. Longevity ; or, the Relative Yiability of 



the Sexes. From the Author. 

 The Laws of Transmission of Resemblance from Parents to their 



Children. From the Author. 

 Hyatt, Alpheus. Notes of an Ornithological Reconnoissance of portions of 



Kansas, Colorado, Wyoming, and Utah, and Fossil Cephalopods of 



the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Embryology. Being Nos. 5 



and 6 of Yol. III. of the Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative 



Zoology. From the Museum. 

 Jan, Prof. Iconographie g^neralc des Ophidiens, par M. le Prof. Jan. 



42me-44me Livrs. Oct. 1872. 

 Jeitteles, L. H. Die vorgeschichtlichen Alterthiimer der Stadt Olmlitz und 



ihrer Umgebuiig. From the Author. 

 30 




458 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Jones, Charles C. Antiquities of the Southern Indians, particularly of the 



Georgia Tribes. New York, 1873. Purchased. 

 Journal des Museum Godeffroy. Heft 1. Hamburg, 1873. Purchased. 

 K16cak, Blasius. Catalogus ad rationem Synonymiou ordinatus Mariuorum 



Molluscorum Dalmatiae. Spalari. 1873. From the Author. 

 Klopfleich, Christian und Kiirchener, Karl. Die Biene uud die Bienen- 



zucht. Jena, 1836. From Prof. S. S. Haldeman. 

 Koch, Gabriel. Die Indo-australische Lepidopteren Fauna. 2er Auflage. 



Berlin, 1873. Purchased. 

 Koch, Dr. L. Uebersichtliche Darstellung der europaischen (Pseudoscor- 



pione). Nurnberg. 1873. From the Author. 

 Kornhiiber, Dr. G. A. Beitrage zur Physikalischen Geographic der Pres- 

 burger Gespanschaft. Presburgh, 186.5. From the Author. 

 Die Naturlichen Grundlagen der Bodeuproductiou in Niederostereich. 



From the Author. 

 Generationswechsel und Parthenogenesis in Thierreich. "Wien, 1865. 

 From the Author. 

 Kreft, Gerard. The Snakes of Australia, an Illustrated Catalogue of all 

 the known species. Sydney, 1869. From John Belisario, through 

 Dr. McQuillan. 

 Kuster, H. C. Systematische Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und Chem- 

 nitz. 3er Band, Heft 31 ; 4er Band, Heft 11 ; 7er Band, Heft 12 ; 

 9er Band, Heft 22 ; lOer Band, Heft 10. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Leidy, Prof. Joseph. Report of the U. S. Geological Survey of the Terri- 

 tories. Vol. I. Part 1. Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate 

 Fauna of the Western Territories. Washington, 1873. From the 

 Author. 

 Lessers, F. C. Testaceo-Theologia. Leipzig, 1744. From Mrs. Griffith. 

 Liais, Emmanuel. Climats, Geologic, Faune, et Geographic Botanique du 



Bresil. Paris, 1872. From the Imperial Gov. of Brazil. 

 Lubbock. Sir John. Monograph of Collembola and Thvsanura. London, 



1873. Ray Society. Vol. for 1871. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Marion, A. F. Recherches Zoologiques et Anatomiques sur des N6matoides 



non Parasites Marins. Paris, 1870. Purchased. 

 Marsh, Prof. 0. C. On the Dates of Prof. Cope's recent Publications. 

 Tinoceras and its Allies. From the Author. 

 Notice of New Tertiary Mammals. 

 Reply to Prof. Cope's Explanation. From the Author. 

 On a New Sub-class of Fossil Birds (Odontornithes). 

 On the Gigantic Fossil Mammals of the Order Dinocerata. From the 



Author. 

 Additional Observations on the Dinocerata. From the Author. 

 Supplementary Note on the Dinocerata. From the Author. 

 Martin, Prof. B. N. Essay upon a Necessary Limitation of the Doctrine of 

 the Unity of the General Forces of Nature. From the Author. 

 The Natural Theology of the Doctrine of the Forces. From the Author. 

 Mason, Jas. ^Vood. Note on a certain species of Phasmidaj, hitherto re- 

 ferred to the genus Bacillus. 

 On Nephropsis Stewarti, a new genus and species of Macrurous Crus- 

 tacean. 

 On Rhopalorhynchus Kroyeri, a new genus and species of Pycnogonida. 

 On new or little known species of Phasmidic. Part I. From the 

 Author. 

 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion (1861-1865). 

 2 vols., 4to. Washington, 1870. From the Surgeon General. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 459 



Meehan, Thos. Forests the Result, and not the Cause of Climate. From 



the Author. 

 Memoirs relating to the Wool Industries. Boston, 1872. From the Na- 

 tional Association of Wool Manufacturers. 

 Meyer, H. A. & Miibius K. Fauna der Kieler Bucht. 2er Band. Die 



Prosobranchia und Lamellibranchia nebst einem Supplement zu den 



Opisthobranchia. Leipzig, 1872. Purchased. 

 Miquel, F. A. W. Illustrations de la Flore de I'Archipel Indien. Tome 



premier, Livr. 1-3. Amsterdam, 1870. From the Botanical Museum 



at Leyden. 

 Monthly Reports on the Commerce and Navigation of the United States. 



June, 1873, Washington. From the Treasury Department. 

 Morelet, M. Arthur. Mollusques. Notice sur les Coquilles Terrestres et 



d'Eau douce recueillies sur les Cotes de I'Abassine. Geneva, 1872. 



From the Author. 

 Morren, M. Ed. L'Horticulture a I'Exposition Universello de Paris de 



1867. Bruxelles, 1872. 

 Rapport Seculaire sur les Travaux de Botanique et de Physiologic 



vegetale (1772-1872). 

 Introduction a I'Etude de la Nutrition des Plantes. Bruxelles, 1872. 

 Eloge de Jean Theodore Lacordaire. Liege, 1870. 

 Notions 616meutaires des Sciences Naturelles. Pts. 1, 2, and 3. Liege, 



1852. 

 Notice sur Chas. Morren. Bruxelles, 1860. From the Author. 

 Morse, Edw. S. On the Systematic Position of the Brachiopoda. 1873. 



From the Author. 

 Mudge, E. R. Wool, and Manufacturers of Wool. From the National 



Association of Wool Manufacturers. 

 Mliuster, E. B. Forekomster af Kise i Visse Skifere i Norge, af Amund 



Helland, udgivet ved E. B. Mliuster. Christiania, 1873. From the 



University of Norway. 

 Nicholson, Henry Alleyn. A Manual of Palaeontology, for the use of Stu- 

 dents. Edinburgh, 1872. Purchased. 

 Nyst, H. P. Tableaux Synoptique et Synonymique des Especes Vivantes 



et Fossiles du Genre Scalaria. Bruxelles. From the Author. 

 Packard. A. S., Jr. Synopsis of the Thysanura of Essex County, Mass., 



with descriptions of a few extralimital forms. Descriptions of New 



American Phalaenidaa. From the Author. 

 Colossal Cuttlefishes. From the Author. 

 The Ancestry of Insects. From the Author. 

 Palseontographical Society, Publications of the. Vol. XXVI. Issued for 



1872. Purchased. 

 Paleontologie Frangaise. 2e Serie. V^g^taux Terrain Jurassique. Livr. 



8-12, and Livr. 25. Paris. Purchased. 

 Parsons, Usher, M.D. Directions for Making Anatomical Preparations. 



Philadelphia, 1831. From Mrs. Griffith. 

 Perry, John B. A Revision of Sir Charles Lyell's Students' Elements of 



Geology. 8vo. Andover, 1872. From the Author. 

 Pfeffer, Dr. W. Physiologische Untersuchungen. Leipzig, 1873. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Photograph of Callipteris Sullivanti. From W. S. Bowman. 

 Pike, Nicolas. Sub-Tropical Rambles in the Land of the Aphanapteryx. 



New York, 1873. Purchased. 

 Plancus. Fabi Columufe Lyncei. Jano Planci Ariminensi, Auctore. 



Mediolani, 1744. From Mrs. Griffith. 




460 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Porter, Thos. C. Sketch of the Botany of the United States. Fol. Phila- 

 delphia, 1873. From the Author. 



Poussiu, Ch. de la Valine. Les E.\])lorations G^ologique a I'Ouest des 

 Etats-Unis. Louvain, 1873. From E. Rosengarten. 



Public Ledger Almanacs for the years 1870-1873. Philadelphia. From 

 George W. Childs. 



R. Comitato Geologico d'ltalia. Bollettino, Nos. 7-12. Anno 1872. 

 Firenzo. From the Survey. 



Reeve, Lowell. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 296-305. Loudon, 1872. 

 Purchased. 



Reichenbach, H. G. Xenia Orchidacea. 2er Band, 8es Heft. Leipzig, 

 1873. From the Wilson Fund. 



Reinke, Dr. J. Morphologische Abhandlungen. Leipzig, 1873. Pur- 

 chased. 



Relation de I'Excursion faite par la Soci6t6 Malacologique de Belgique. 

 Bruxelles, 1872. From the Society. 



Revised List of the A'ertebrated Animals now or lately living in the Gar- 

 dens of the Zoological Society of London. 1872. From the Society. 



Report of the Director of the Central Park Menagerie, Department of 

 Public Parks, N. Y. From the Director. 



Report of the Geological Survey of Ohio. Vol. 1. Geology and Palaeon- 

 tology. Part L Geology. Part II. Paktontology, Atlas. Colum- 

 bus, 1873. From J. S. Newberry. 



Report, Second, of the Meteorological OfiBce of the Dominion of Canada. 

 From the Superintendent. 



Report of the Commissioners of Education for the years 1871 and 1872. 

 Washington. 



Report, Third Annual, of the Board of Commissioners of Public Charities 

 of the State of Pennsylvania. Harrisburg, 1873. From the Board. 



Report, Third Annual, of the Commissioners of Fisheries of the State of 

 New Jersey, for the year 1872. Trenton, 1872. From the Commis- 

 sioners. 



Report, Annual, of the Secretary of the Interior. Washington, 1873. From 

 the Author. 



Reports of Explorations for a Railroad Route from the Mississippi River to 

 the Pacific. Vol. XII. Parts I and II. From A. J. Brasier. 



Rivifere. Emile. D6couverte d'un Squelette Humain de I'Epoque Pal6o- 

 lithique dans les Cavernes des Baouss6 Rousse dites Grottes de Men- 

 ton. Paris, 1873. From the Author. 



Ross, A. M., M.I). Canadian Ferns and Wild Flowers. 12mo. Toronto, 

 1873. From the Author. 



Ruschenberger, W. S. W A Report on the Origin and Therapeutic Prop- 

 erties of Cundurango. 4th. Washington, 1873. From the Author. 

 On the Value of Original Scientific Research. From the Author. 



Rutimeycr, L. Die fossiien Schildkroten von Solotlinrn uud der Ubrigen 

 Juraformation. Zurich. 1873. From the Author. 



Sars, Geo. Ossian. On Some Remarkable Forms of Animal lafe from the 

 Great Deeps off the Norwegian Coast. I. Christiania, 1872. From 

 the University of Norway. 

 Carcinologiske Bidrag til Norges Fauna. Andet Ilefte. Christiania, 

 1872. From the Author. 



Saussurc, H. de. Melanges Orthopt6rologiques. IVme Fasc. Genfeve, 

 1872. From the Author. 



Schmarda, Ludwig K. Zoologic. 1 and 2 Band. Wicn, 1871. Purchased. 



Schmidt, Dr. Zur Urgeschichte Nordamerkas. From the Author. 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY, 461 



Scliubeler, Dr. F. C. Pnanzengeographische Karte liber das Konigreich 



Norwegeu. From the University of Norway. 

 Die Pfianzewelt Norwegons. Christiania, 1873. From the Author. 

 Seaman, Ezra C. View of Nature. New York, 1873. From the Author. 

 Semper. Dr C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Theil. 2er Band, 



IV Heft. 3er Band, II Heft. Wiesbaden, 1872. Purchased. 

 Sexe, S. A. On the Rise of Laud in Scandinavia. Christiania, 1872. From 



the University of Norway. 

 Slack. J. H., M.D. Catalogue of the Fishes and Fish Culturists' Supplies, 



for sale. 1873. From the Author. 

 Smith, Andrews' H., M.D. The Effects of High Atmospheric Pressure, 



including the Caisson Disease. Brooklyn, 1873. From the Author. 

 Smith, Sidney J. Early Stages of the American Lobster. From the 



Author. 

 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVIII. Washington, 



1873. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Souverbie, Dr. et Montrouzier, R. R. Description d'Especes Nouvelles de 



I'Archipel Cal^donien. 

 Stainton, H. T. The Natural History of the Tineina. Vol. XIIL London, 



1873. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Statistics of the Population of the United States. Ninth Census. Vol. I. 



Washington, 1872. From Francis A. Walker. 

 Stearns, R. E. C. Description of a New Genus and Species of Alcyonoid 



Polyp. From the Authors. 

 Stida, Ludwig. Die Bildung des Knochengewebes. Leipzig, 1872. From 



the Author. 

 Stoppani, Abbe Antoine. Paleontologie Lombarde. Livr. 49-50. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Strecker, Herman. Lepidoptera, Rhopaloceres, and Heteroceres, indige- 

 nous and exotic. Nos. 1-7. Reading, 1872 and 1873. From the 



Author. 

 Studer, Jacob H. Columbus, Ohio : its History, Resources, and Progress. 



1873. From the Author. 

 Suringar, W. F. R. Musee Botanique de Leide. Vol. I., Livr. 1-3. Leide. 



From the Musee. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning. 42-45, with four maps. From the 



Geological Survey of Sweden. 

 Theses, Seventeen Theolosfical, Political, and Medical. From the Societe 



Litteraire de I'Universit^ Catholique de Louvain. 

 Thomson, C. G. Hymenoptera Scandinavia3. Tome II. Lundse, 1872. 



Purchased. 

 Thomson, C. Wyville. The Depths of the Sea. New York, 1873. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Tommasi, Donato. Sur un Nouveau Dissolvant de I'lodure Plombique et 



de son application k la Pharmacie. From the Author. 

 Sur une combinaison de I'uree avec I'acetyle chlore. 

 Action du chloruse de chloracetyle sur I'aniline et la toluidine. 

 Sur les derives acides de la naphtylamine. From the Author. 

 Combinaison de Bioxyde de Chrome. 

 Action de I'lodure Plombique surquelques Acetats Mdtalliques. From 



the Author. 

 Torshey, Col. Caleb G. The Delta of the Mississippi. Cambridge, 1873. 



From the Author. 

 Tryon, Geo. W.. Jr. American Marine Conchology; or. Descriptions of the 



Shells of the Atlantic Coast of the United States, from Maine to 



Florida. Parts 1-3. Philadelphia, 1873. From the Author. 




4f)2 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Van Beneden, M. M. et Gervais Paul. Osteographie des Cetaces, vivants 



et fossils. Toxte and Atlas. Livr. 9 and 10. Paris. Purchased. 

 Vaucher, Jean Pierre. Histoire des Couverves d'Eau douce. A Genfeve, 



1803. From Dr. H. C. Wood. 

 Walker, Francis A. A Compendium of the Ninth Census. Washington, 



1872. From the Author. 

 Walpole, W. White. Exchange List of Unionidas. London, 1872. From 



Rev. E. R. Beadle. 

 Watson, Sereno. New Plants of Northern Arizona and the region adjacent. 



From the Author. 

 Westerlund, Carl Agardh. Fauna Molluscorum Terrestrium et' Fluviatilium 



Sueciae, Norwegiae et Daniai. II. S(3tvatter MoUusker. Stockholm. 



Purchased. 

 Whiteaves, J. F. Report on a Second Deep Sea-Dredging Expedition to 



the Gulf of St. Lawrence. From the Author. 

 Wilder, Hans M. General Index to the American Journal of Pharmacy, 



from its Commencement, Dec. 1825, to Nov. 1870, inc. Philadel- 

 phia, 1873. From the Author. 

 Wolf, Joseph. The Life and Habits of Wild Animals. 1873. Illustrated 



by Designs. Purchased. 

 Worthen, A. H. Geological Survey of Illinois. Vol. V. Geology and 



Pateontology. Springfield, 1873. From the Director. 

 Yale College in 1873. From the Publishers. 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



463 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Abacidus 305 



Abies 353 



Acer 363 



Achseuodon 371 



Acidota 327 



Acilius 326 



Acipenser 15 



Acmsodera 89, 332 



Acratus 329 



Acridium 296 



Actenodes 332 



Adelocera 333 



Adetus 336 



Adoxus 33 



Agennopsis 336 



Agrilus 90, 332 



Agriochoerus 417 



Aira 354 



Alans 3S3 



Aleochara 327 



Amara 323 



Amia. 97 



Ampelis 294 



Amphibulima 247 



Amphizoa 334 



Anacliis 344 



Anarnacus 267 



Anaspis 335 



Anchitherium 371, 417 



Anchomenus 323 



Anchorama 328 



Ancylochira 331 



Ancylonycha 330 



Androlyperus 55 



Anomalon 376 



Anomcea 27 



Anostira 278 



Authaxia 89, 331 



Apate 336 



Aphthonia 67 



Aquilegia 277 



Argutor 309, 317 



Arhopalus 336 



Ariolimax 247 



Arionta 243 



Atabalipa 833 



Atomaria 328 



Attacus 281 



Auclieuia 260 



Aureonotata 333 



Babia 27 



Badister 324 



Balophila 65 



Batlimodon 102, 371 



Begonia 100 



Bignonia 277 



Blandiella 252 



Blepharida 76 



Bletia 205 



Bombus 287 



Boucliardia 191 



Brachys 96, 333 



Brachystylus 317 



Bulimulus 248 



Bulimns 247 



Buprestis 88 



Buteo 238 



Byrrhus 328 



Calligrapha 48 



Calosoma 332 



Campoplex 382 



Cassida 77 



Cassidides 76 



Catasetuui 205 



Catogenus 328 



Celtis 363 



Cephalanthus 363 



Cerataltica 73 



Ceratocampa 274, 283 



Chfetocncma 73 



Chalcoparia 39 



Chalcophora 84 



Chara 420 



Chciragra 329 



Clieletropis 215 



Chelydra 278 



Chelymorpha 77 



Clilamius 325 






464 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Chlamys 30 



Clinaunanthus 329 



Christolia 1G3 



Chrysobothris 90, 331 



Chrj'sochus 37 



Chrysomela 46, 50 



Chrysomelides 46 



Cicindela 321 



Cinyra 88 



Cistella 193 



Cithara 222 



Citharichthys 360 



Clathurella 219, 346 



Clavipalpus 329 



Clausilia 247 



Clytus 336 



Cochlostyla 247 



Coelacauthns 418, 425 



Colaspis 44 



Colobagaster 332 



Colosteus 418 



Colpius 326 



Colymbetes 326 



Coma 415 



Conchiopsis 341, 418, 425 



Coptocycla 78 



Coia?bus 332 



Corticaiia ; 328 



Cosciuoptera 28 



Crania 197 



Cremastochilus 330 



Crepidodera 71 



Criocerides 24 



Cryobius 309, 317 



Cryptanura 166 



Cryptocephalides 30 



Cryptocephalus 31 



Crvptus 133 



Cuculus 293 



Cupes 334 



Cupressus 368 



Cuproajuea 331 



Cychrus 322 



Cydotus 252 



Cylindrella 248 



Cyrtonotus 323 



Daphnella 229 



Daptinus 339 



Dasytes 333 



Dclpbinus 279 



Dcrataphrus 334 



Dibolia 67 



DiCc-plus 324 



Dichclonycha 328 



Dicprca 84, 331 



Dichinis 325 



Diniorella 196 



Diuoceras 10 



Dinotheriura 12 



Dionaea 101, 277 



Diplotaxis 329 



Discina 200 



Discinisca 177, 201 



Disonycha 64 



Disteminus 327 



Distoma 364 



Donacia 20 



Donaciides 20 



Drianierus 334 



Drillia 217 



Dryocampa 274, 282 



Dysidius 306 



Eiphosoma 380 



Elacatis 328 



Elaphidion 336 



Elaphrus 321 



Eleodes 334 



Elephas 416 



Emeax 334 



Encyalestlies 335 



Entomoscelis 51 



Eobasileus 10, 102, 371 



Ephalus 335 



Ephialtes 394 



Epigrea 276 



Epimecis 395 



Epirhyssa 394 



Epitrix 72 



Epurnea 328 



Eqiuis 371 



Erisicbthe 339 



Eristalis 364 



Eucalodium 247 



Eucbalarodus 360 



Eumolpides 33 



Enidcctroscelis 75 



Europs 328 



Euryscopa 28 



Eustrophus 335 



Evarthrus 302, 318 



Excma 30 



Exerestiis 334 



Exetastcs 389 



Exochilnm 375 



Exochoides 392 



Exochus 393 



Fclis 260 



Fcronia 317 



Fidia 33 



Formica 298 



Galorucn 55 



Galcnici'lla 55 



Galcnicidc'S 54 



Gasterophysa 51 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



405 



Goomelania 252 



Glandina 246 



Glottidia 204 



Glypta 405 



Glyptocephalus 360 



Glvptoscelis 35 



Glyptostoma 244 



Gouioctena 52 



Goniodorus 232 



Gonolobus 415 



Gouospira 246 



Giaptodera 64 



Gribnrius 32 



Grotea 413 



Halicore 272 



Haliplus 326 



Halitherium 271 



Haltica 70 



Hammatoraerus 303 



Harpalus 325 



He]icina 233, 252 



Helix 237, 241, 249, 285 



Helonias 364 



Hemipeplns 328 



Hemiteles 169 



Heinphillia 247 



Hemitliyris 196 



Hesperobrenus 328 



Heteraspis 34 



Hilarianus 329 



Hippopotamus 2Q8 



Hippotherium 420 



Hispides 79 



Holciophorus 302 



Homalochilus 329 



Hoplismenus 105 



Hyalina 246 



Hydnocera 334 



Hydrocantbns 326 



Hydrophorus 326 



Hypamia 98 



Hyperoodon 267 



Hypertragulus 41 9 



Hypisodus 419 



Hypolampsis 57 



Hyopsodus 371 



Hypotrichia 329 



Ichneumon 105 



Ictistygma 835 



Icterus 293 



Ilex 363 



Impatieus 101 



luia 267 



Ischalia 335 



Isopleurus 324 



Joppa 130 



Joppidium 138 



Juglans 290 



Juniperus 274 



Kraussina 177, 190 



Labena 412 



Labidomera 47 



Lachnosterua 330 



Lampronota 407 



Lathridius 261 



Lebasiella 334 



Leichenum 335 



Leiodes 327 



Lema 24 



Lepidosteus 97 



Leptomeryx 419 



Leptopliractus 340 



Leuretra 329 



Licinus 324 



Liguus 251 



Liiium 279 



Limax 240, 246 



Limicolaria 247 



Limnfea 251, 286 



Limneria 386 



Liugula 177, 202, 416 



Liogenys 329 



Littorina 284 



Loberus 328 



Longitarsus 65 



Lopiioglossus 302, 316 



Loxandrus 302, 317 



Loxolophodon 102 



Lucioperca 415 



Luperaltica 70 



Luperus 54 



Lycorina 406 



Lyopomata 197 



Machranthus 205 



]\Iacratria 335 



Macroceramus 248 



Macrocyclis 240, 546 



Macrotliops 329 



Magasella 188 



Magnolia 363 



Manatus 265, 269 



Mantura 73 



Mastodon 11 



Mastogenius 332 



Megaceratops 102 



Megalomastoma 252 



Megathyiis 192 



Megerlia 1 86 



Melampus 251 



iVIelanactes 333 



Mclaiiia 286 



MelauophiUi 89, 331 




466 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Meloc 336 



Melolontba 829, 335 



Melolonthides 27 



Melyris 334 



Meniscus 409 



Mcnotlieriura 419 



Meristlius 333 



]\Iesochorus 388 



Mesoleptus 390 



Mesostenus 141, 150 



Metachroma 41 



Metalophodon 102 



Metaparia 40 



Metopius 393 



Microrhopala 82 



Miraulus 101, 277 



Minthea , 328 



]Miscodera 324 



Molothrus 293 



Mouachus 30 



IMonoxia 56 



Myautlius 205 



]\Iycetophagus 335 



Myochrous 37 



Myocoryna 47 



Nanina 237, 246 



Nassa 229 



Nebria 322 



Necrophorus 326 



Nitella 420 



Nitidclla 345 



Nitidula 327 



Nonnus 386 



Notaphus 325 



Notiophilus 321 



Is ototrachys 375 



Nyctipetus 334 



Nyctoporis 334 



Obeliscus 228 



Odontonyx 333 



Odontota 80 



Odostomia 223 



(Edicephalus 129 



ffidionychis 59 



Oidiiim 261 



Omalium 327 



Omaseus 305, 317 



Omnia 334 



Ophion 374 



Ophiopterus 380 



Orchestris 65 



Oreodon 41 7 



Orsodachnides 22 



Orthalicus 251 



Orthaltica 69 



Ortezia 130 



Pachybrachys 32 



Pachyonychus 58 



Pachyurgus 335 



Palseosyops 371 



Palreotlierium 371 



Palauchenia 260 



Pallifera 246 



Paludestrina 280 



Paniscus 382 



Paradoxurus 372 



Paria 39 



Patroclus 105 



Patnla 249 



Pedicularis 287 



Pedioscertetes 295 



Pedipes 236 



Pellicula 248 



Penthelispa 328 



Peplorhina 343, 418, 425 



Perimecus 333 



Peristetlius 305 



Pervphus 325 



Phaius 205, 276 



Pliareodus 99 



Phlegon 333 



PUygadenon 140 



Pliyilecthrus 54 



Pliyllodecta 52 



Phyllotocus 329 



Physa 286 



Pliysonota 77 



Pliytodietus 411 



Phyton 336 



Piesmus 302 



Pimelodus 99 



Pimpla 397 



Pineiia 248 



Pinus 352, 370 



Pitys 233 



Plagiodera 52 



Planorbis 251, 286 



Platessa 360 



Platidia 191 



Platynus 323 



Platysma 306 



Plecotrema 235 



Plectrodos 329 



Pocciloiiota 88 



Poecilus 305 



Polpochile 325 



Polya>nus 149 



Polycesta 89, 332 



Polycyrtus 141 



Pol\'0]isia 336 



Pnlyplcurus 335 



Ponipholyx 251 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



46'? 



Pontoporia 267 



Popiilus 353 



Porpliyrasi)is 76 



Potamopyrgus 286 



Potentilla 289 



Portheus 337 



Prasocuris 51 



Pristomerus 388 



Procanielus 420 



Prouuba 414 



Pro'tlieca 384 



Protocamelus 15 



Protoliippns 420 



Pselaphodes 327 



Psenocerus 336 



Psiloptera 84 



Psilothrix 333 



Psylliodes 76 



Pterostichus 303, 312 



Pnpina 233 



Pygopterus 418 



Pyrgula 286 



Quercus 851, 354, 370 



Eanmiculns 276, 289 



Rliipidandrus 335 



Rhombodera 322 



Rhus 800 



Rhynchonella 195 



Rissoa 215 



Rissoina 209 



Rissopsis 228 



Rudbeckia 800 



Sagda 249 



Salix 363 



Salmo 258 



Samocephalus 339 



Saxinis 28 



Saturnia 281 



Sayornis 292 



Sciiizostedion 415 



Sciurus 101 



Scraptia 335 



Sintectus 827 



Sirenia 266 



Sisyrinchiura 205 



Smerinthus 282 



Sphinx 282 



Stagetus 334 



Stenaspis 836 



Stenispa 80 



Stenogyra 247 



Stenopus 246 



Stenotrema 241 



Stereocerus 328 



Stereopalpus 335 



Stoastoma 253 



Succinea 245, 251, 286 



Suphis ^. . . 326 



Sus 207 



Syueta 24 



Systena 68 



Tachyporus 327 



Tachyta 326 



Ta]a?opora 336 



Talinuin 364 



Taphrocerus 96 



Tarsosteuus 334 



Tautoga 15 



Taxodium 363 



Tecoma 101 



Telephorus 333 



Tenebrio 335 



Terebratella 183 



Terebratula 178 



Terebiatuliua 179 



Thccidium 195 



Theronia 395 



Thorictus 338 



Thyreodon 375 



Tilius 334 



Timarcha 46 



Titanotherium 11 



Tmesiphorus 334 



Tomitherium 419 



Toposcopus 335 



Toreuia 101 



Torula 261 



Trachykele 87 



Trechiis 825 



Trichothorax 323 



Trifolium 354 



Trihabda 56 



Trionyx 277 



Troglodytes 293 



Trogns 131 



Tryonia 286 



Tryphon 891 



Tulotoma 352 



Typophorus 38 



Uintatherium 10, 103 



Unio 422 



Urodera 28 



Vancheria 420 



Verouicella 247 



Vireo 854 



Vitrina 240 



Vitrinolla 213 



Volvaria 217 




468 INDEX TO GEXERA. 



Waldheimia 181 \ Yucca 414 



Xanthonia 34 Zeugophoia 23 



Xenorliipis 88 Zoui'tes 240, 246 



Xylophilus 335 Zygogrumma 48 




GENERAL IXDEX. 



469 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Agassiz, L. , Announcement of death 

 of, 417 ; Resolutions regarding, 420. 



Bland, Thos., and Wra. G. Binney, 

 On the Lingual Dentition of Cer- 

 tain Terrestrial Pulmonata from 

 the United States, with remarks on 

 their systematic value, 97, 240. 



BoUes, L. S., Announcement of 

 death of, 348. 



Chapman, H. C, On a Species of 

 Delphinus, 279; Disposition of the 

 Flexor perforans, etc., in Para- 

 doxurns musanga. Gray, 372. 



Committees for 1873, 17. 



Cope, Edw. D., On Toxochelys lati- 

 remis, 10 ; On the genus Eobasileus, ' 

 10 ; On EobasiliidfB and Bathmo- 

 dontida?, 102 ; On a Skull of Sus 

 scropha, 207 ; On an Anourous Ba- 

 trachian from the Eocene of Wyo- 

 ming, 207 ; On extinct Turtles from 

 the Eocene strata of Wyoming, 

 277 ; On two new species of Sauro 

 dontidse, 337 ; On some new Batra- 

 chia and Fishes from the Coal 

 Measures of Linton, Ohio, 340 ; On 

 the Homologies and Origin of the 

 Types of Molar Teeth in Mamma- 

 lia Educabilia, 370, 371, 372; Con- 

 tribution to the Ichthyology of 

 Alaska, 370, 372 ; On Stone Circles 

 in the Rocky Mountain region, 370; 

 On Fishes from the Coal Measures 

 at Linton, Ohio, 417; On Fossils 

 from the Miocene of Colorado, 419. 



Correspondence, 439. 



Cresson, E. T., Descriptions of Mexi- 

 can IchneumouidiE, 97, 104, 369, 

 374. 



Crotch, G. R., Materials for the 

 Study of the Phytophaga of the 

 United States, 10, l9 ; Notes on the 



species of Buprestidge of the United 



States, 10, 84. 



Dall, W. H., Catalogue of the recent 



species of the Class Brachiopoda, 



97, 177. 

 Donations to Library, 443. 

 Durand, Elias, Announcement of 



death of, 348 ; Obituary Notice of, 



355. 



Garrett, A. J., Descriptions of new 

 species of Marine Shells inhabiting 

 the South Sea Islands, 206, 209 ; 

 Descriptions of a new species of 

 Goniodorus, 206, 232 ; Descriptions 

 of new species of Land Shells 

 inhabiting the South Sea Islands, 

 206, 233. 



Gentry, T. G., On the Habits of Sci- 

 urus hudsonius, Pal., 101; Obser- 

 vations on a Change of Structure 

 of a Larva of Dryocampa imperia- 

 lis, 259, 274 ; Influence of Nutrition 

 upon Sex among Lepidoptera, 260, 

 281 ; Observations on Nests of Say- 

 ornis fuscus, 277, 292 ; Fertilization 

 of Pedicularis canadensis, 287 ; 

 Double Flowers of Ranunculus fas- 

 cicularis, 289 ; Observations on the 

 Habits of the Neuters of Formica 

 sanguiuea, 298 ; On Rudbeckia 

 hirta, 300 ; On a Swarm of Ephe- 

 merids, 350 ; On the Nest of Vireo 

 solitarius, Vieil, 354; Remarkable 

 Variations in Coloration, Orna- 

 mentation, etc., of certain Larvae 

 of Nocturnal Lepidoptera, 421. 



Gill, Theo., On the Affinities of the 

 Sirenians, 257, 262 ; On a new 

 American species of Glyptocepha- 

 lus, 350, 360. 



Gillis, Commodore John P., An- 

 nouncement of death of, 103. 






470 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Goldsmith, E., Trautwinite, a New 

 Mineral, 9 ; The composition of 

 Trautwinite, 348 ; Analysis of 

 Chromite from Monterey County, 

 Cal., 3G5; Stibiaferrite, a New 

 Mineral from Santa Clara, Co., 

 Cal., 366. 



Guckert, F., Announcement of death 

 of, 372. 



Hasslor, F. A., On the Vitality of 



Littorina muricata, 284. 

 Hoopes, B. A., Description of a New 



Variety of Buteo, 207, 238. 



Kcenig, Geo. A., On the Forms of 

 Artificial Oxide of Zinc, 12 ; On a 

 Boiler Incrustation from New Jer- 

 sey, 13. 



Lea, I., Description of Fifty-two spe- 

 cies of UuionidfE, 350 ; Description 

 of Seven new species of Unionidse 

 of the United States, 372, 422 ; On 

 Three species of Unionidse of the 

 United States, 417, 424. 



Le Conte, J. L., Statement regarding 

 a Collection of Coleoptera, 100 ; 

 Remarks on the death of Friedrich 

 Ernest Melsheimer, M.D., 257; 

 The Pterostichi of the United 

 States, 302 ; Synonymical Remarks 

 upon North American Coleoptera, 

 321. 



Leidy, Jos., Notice of Fossil Verte- 

 brates from the Miocene of Vir- 

 ginia, 1.") ; Notice of Remains of 

 Fishes in the Bridger Tertiary For- 

 mation of Wyoming, 97 ; Remarks 

 on the Occurrence of an Extinct 

 Hog in America, 207 ; On Iron Py- 

 rites in Coal, 257 ; On a Specimen 

 of Mus rattus, 257 ; On Dufreynite, 

 257 ; Remarks on Extinct Mammals 

 from California, 259; Fungus Pa- 

 rasite on a Mouse, 260 ; On Distoma 

 liepaticum, 364 ; On Lingula in a 

 Fish of the Susquehanna, 415 ; 

 Remarks on Fossil Elephant Teeth, 

 416 ; On Circulatory Movement in 

 Vaucheria, 420. 



Median, Thos., Remarks on the Fer- 

 tilization of Flowers, 15; On the 

 ]\Iorphology of the Apple, 99 ; On 

 the Nature of Vegetable Hairs, and 

 on the Flowers of Viola and Impa- 



tiens, 100 ; On Change of Structure 

 in Orchids, 205 ; Double Flowers in 

 Epiga^a repens, 276 ; Influence of 

 Cohesion on Change of Characters 

 in Orchidea>, 276 ; Movements in 

 Stigmatic Lobes, 277 ; Liliura 

 Washingtonianum, 279 ; Fertiliza- 

 tion of Pedicularis canadensis, 287; 

 Laws of Sex in Juglaus nigra, 290 ; 

 Sex in Rhus cotinus, 300 ; Excep- 

 tional Conditions in the Vegetation 

 of Forest Seed, 350, 369 ; Obituary 

 Notice of Elias Durand, 355 ; Law 

 of Seed Genniuation in Swamp 

 Plants, 363 ; Fertilization of Yucca, 

 414; Note on a Fungoid Root Pa- 

 rasite, 414; On the Expansion of 

 the Coma in Asclepiadaceae, 415. 

 Moss, T. F., Announcement of death 

 of, 366. 



Newberry, J. S., Notes on the Genus 

 Couchiopsis, 425. 



Officers for 1874, 436. 



Proceedings of 

 Section," 284. 



the Conchological 



Report of Recording Secretary, 427. 



Report of Librarian, 428. 



Report of the Curators, 429. 



Report of Recorder of Biological and 

 Microscopical Department, 432. 



Report of Conservator of Concholo- 

 gical Section, 434. 



Smith, A. H., On Talinum teretifo- 

 lium, 363. 



Stearns, R. E. C, Descriptions of new 

 species of Shells from tlie West 

 Coast of Florida, 301, 344. 



Thomas, Cyrus, Descriptions of new 

 species of Orthoptera, collected in 

 Nevada, Utah, and Arizona, by 

 the Expedition under Lieut. George 

 M. AVheeler, 279, 295. 



Torrey, John, Resolutions on the 

 death of, 206. 



Tryou, Geo. W., Jr., On a Collection 

 of Shells from Utah, 285. 



Warner, John, Announcement of 

 death of, 301. 



Worrall, Jas., Letter on the Intro- 

 duction of California Salmon, 258. 





I 






PROCEEDINGS 



mi^'f,ns 



m^'' 



OF THE 



ftad^mg 0f jfaittrHl Icienan 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



'i 



PART I,^January, Fehviiavy, 1873. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., VVm. S. Vacx, 



Robert Bridges, M.D., Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



y Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



S 



<\ 



4 



philadp:lphia: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1873. 






ATKAl lEXCl 







<- f ' i.j^ 



Vol. 7i 

 rty pk 



'f}% A^llt I 



1, 



l_-'.'-e.xlh. 



JJjfjKS rOK^ALB. 



thei 

 Pric 



:xe(! 



M</y-XJA#W (W THE TEKWWTErAl. M'yLL- " . 



4 4]ttf>Kt^ pUx^ or^ryr^ aH'tiotcd. iiored 



^ AiS^t&^a, f^-;y). Oafjr one liidred co^^r: ^r.nied, wl 



H'/JS'^MJKAJ'tf Off rur. FKEXB-WATKR T.'3frril.TB'X>I-I.r5CAOF thz Ui 



iiyft, h. Haujkhas, lJMO-44. WitL ^ ^^-^xnoy to 1?":. Byj 

 Turf /a, Jr. 2 vo\x..wiXh vasmj cok.. Fine e^: z. dm" 



$40.00 ; with c/Aorad plaUB, f25.00; wiiiL pia plates. flS.OO. 

 Either the original work or the continua^ii famished separatelj 



NoTiCK TO BooKSELLEEK. All the Poblicains of the Society 

 to IJooksclU-Ts at a discount of 20 per cent, on ti prices charged "to 



Ap|ilio!iii(>ii to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, L.iirman of the Pn^ 

 iiiiltt'c, n{)2 Arch Strr-et, or to tlie Librarian - Hall of the Ac:...-- 

 of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



' London, 'EUBXER & CO., 



Xo. 60 Paternr 



Agents, ] JVeio Torf.lVM. WOOD ifc CO., 



>'o. 61 Wal! 



Janvnry, 1873. 



Salem, Maiy NATURALIST'S AGL.^^ 




ear : 



altnvu 



an;: 



air 

 jtn: 



! f: - 



"At. 



Sll TOV 



toi. 

 "An 



21 

 eo' 



eov 



Si- -ac^ 



tioDB io: 



tid: 



th- 



ses- 



sequeii 



tiiougbi^ 



The Pul 

 orders lor 

 % Art. Vlii. 






CONTENTS. 



E. Goldsmith. Trautwineite, a new Mineral .... 9 



E. D. Cope. On Toxochelys latiremis 10 



E. D. Cope. On Eobasileus, Cope 10 



Geo. a. Koenig, Ph.D. On the forms of Artificial Oxide of Zinc 12 

 Geo. a. Koenig, Ph.D. On a Boiler Incrustation from New Jer- 

 sey 13 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. Notice of Fossil Vertebrates from the Miocene 



of Virginia .......... 15 



Thos. Meehan. On the Fertilization of Flowers . . .16 

 G. R. Crotch, M.A. Materials for the Study of the Phytoi^haga 



of the United States 19 



G. R. Crotch, M.A. Notes on the species of Buprestidoe found 



in the United States 84 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. Notice of Remains of Fishes in the Bridger 



Tertiary Formation of Wj'oming 97 



Thos. Meehan. On the Morphology of the Apple . . .99 

 J. L. Leconte, M.D. Statement regarding a collection of Cole- 



optera 100 



Thos. Meehan. On the nature of Vegetable Hairs, and on the 



Flowers of Viola and Impatiens ...... 101 



Thos. G. Gentry. On the Habits of Sciurus hudsonius. Pal. . 101 

 E. D. Cope. On Eobasiliidas and Bathmodontidse . . .102 

 E. T. Cresson. Descriptions of Mexican Ichneumonidae . .104 

 W. H. Dall. Catalogue of the Recent Species of the Class 



Brachiopoda IVT 



Standing Committees for 1813 IT 



o 






'^-:?if*^' 



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



h 



cadfmn 0f '^Hiiiral IcicncsH 



OF 



PIIILAJJELPHIA. 



JPAItT II.31arc!ff Aprilf Map, June^ July, August, 



Septeaiher, 187S. 



%4^ 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., Wm. S. Vaux, 



Robert Bridges, M,D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



Geo. W. Trvon, Jr., 



PHII.ADP]LPniA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansoin Streets. 



1873. 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of tlie Journal (Quarto) have been issued 

 1847 to 1870. The price per vohime of four parts is $10.00, or $3.00 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains 

 "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of 

 the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series op the Journal, 1817 to 1843, in eight volumes, octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00, to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separatelj' ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. . 



The Third Series op the Proceedings, Illustrated, comniencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the pubhc, $6.25. 



American Journal op Conchologt, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 Images, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOB SALE. 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices afSxed : 



Description op Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00 ; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



Monograph op the Fresh- water Univalve Mollusca op the United States. 

 By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. Witii Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00 ; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on tiie prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arch Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



f London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Agents, 

 January, 1873. 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



Salem, Mass., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTENTS CONTINUED. 



Thos. Meehan. Movements in Stigmatic Lobes . . .277 



E. D. CorE. Extinct Turtles from Eocene of Wyoming . .277 

 Thos. Meehan. Lilium Wasliingtonianum . . . .279 



H. C. ChaPiMan, M.D. On a species of Delphinus . . . 279 

 Thos. G. Gentry. Influence of Nutrition on Sex among tlie 



Lepidoptera 281 



Thos. Meehan. Fertilization of Pedicularis Canadensis . . 287 

 Thos. G. Gentry. Fertilization of Pedicularis Canadensis . 287 

 Thos. G. Gentry. Double flowers of Ranunculus fascicularis . 289 

 Thos. Meehan. Laws of Sex in Juglans nigra .... 290 

 Thos. G. Gentry. Observations on Nests of Sayornis fuscus . 292 

 Cyrus Thomas. Descriptions of new species of Orthoptera . 295 

 Thos. G. Gentry. Observations on the Habits of the Neuters 



of Formica sauguinea ........ 298 



Thos. Meehan. Sex in Rhus cotinus 300 



Thos. G. Gentry. On Rudbeckia hirta 300 



John L. Leconte, M.D. The Pterostichi of the United States . 302 

 John L. Leconte, M.D. Synonymical Remarks upon North 



American Coleoptera 321 



E. D. Cope. On two new species of Saiirodontidse . . . 337 

 E. D. Cope. On some new Batrachia and Fishes from the Coal 



Measures of Linton, Ohio 340 



R. E. C. Stearns. Descriptions of new Marine Shells from the 



West Coast of Florida 344 



E. Goldsmith. The Composition of Trautwinite . . . 348 

 Thos. G. Gentry. On a swarm of Ephemerids .... 350 

 Thos. Meehan. Exceptional Conditions in the Vegetation of 



Forest Seed 350 



Thos. G. Gentry. On the nest of Vireo solitarius, Vieil . . 354 

 Thos. Meehan. Obituary Notice of Eltas Durand . . . 355 

 Theo. Gill, M.D. On a new American Species of Pleuronectoid 



(Glyptocephalus Acadianus) 360 




^^-^^-^ 



CONTENTS. 



Thos. Meehan. On change of structure in Orchids 



. 205 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. Remarks on the Occurz'ence of an Extinct Hog 



in America 207 



E. D. Cope. On a skull of Sus scropha 207 



E. D. Cope. On an Anourous Batrachian from the Eocene of 



Wyoming 207 



Andrew Garrett. Descriptions of new species of Marine Shells 



inhabiting the South Sea Islands 209 



Andrew Garrett. Description of a new species of Goniodoris 232 

 Andrew Garrett. Descriptions of new species of Land Shells 



inhabiting the South Sea Islands 233 



Bernard A. Hoopes. Description of a new variety'' of Buteo . 238 

 Thos. Bland and W. G. Binney. On the Lingual Dentition and 

 Jaw of certain Terrestrial Pulmonata from the United 

 States, with remarks on their systematic value . . . 240 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. On Iron Pyrites in Coal .... 257 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. On a specimen of Mus rattus . . . 257 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. On Dufreynite 257 



J. L. Leconte, M.D. Remarks on the death of Friedricii Er- 

 nest Melsheimer, M.D 257 



Jas. Worrall. Letter on the introduction of California Salmon 258 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. Remarka,on Extinct Mammals from California 259 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. Fungous Parasite on a Mouse . . . 260 

 Theodore Gill, M.D. On the Affinities of the Sirenians . . 262 

 Thos. G. Gentry. Observations on changes in structure of a 



Larva of Dryocampa imperialis 274 



Thos. Meehan. Double Flowers in Epigaea repens . . . 276 

 Thos. Meehan. Influence of Cohesion on change of Characters 



in Orchidete . . ....... 276 



[FOR REMAINDER OF CONTENTS, SEE 3d PAGE.] 



[TO 



c 



'^^: 



'^^^' 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



tatlcms | |afral %tmm 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III. October, JSoveniber, December, 1873. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D., Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 



Wm. S. Vacx, Edw. J. Nolan, M.D., 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBEBGER, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1874. 




PUBLICATIONS OF 



THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Seven volumes of the New Series of the Journal (Quarto) have been issued 

 1847 to 1870. The price per volume of four parts is $10.00, or $8.00 per part.to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. 7 contains 

 "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of 

 the Mammalian Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, 

 may be obtained at $40.00 to members, and to the public, $48.00. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 

 1841 to 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 185G, may be ob- 

 tained at $24.00, to members; and to the public, $30.00. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of 

 which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), maybe obtained at $42.00, 

 to members, or $3.00 per volume separatelj^ ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing Janu- 

 ary 1st, 1871, is published at $5.00 per annum, payable in advance, to members; 

 and to the public, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchologt, 1865-71. Seven vols. 8vo. Containing 

 2500 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, 

 besides about a thousand wood engravings. Published at $70.00. Price reduced 

 to $42.00 for the set. Separate volumes $10.00 each. 



BOOKS FOB SALE. 



The Academy have the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 



Description of Shells of North America, with 08 colored plates. Bj' Thomas 

 Say, 1830-34. $10.50. 



Monograph of the Unionid.^: of North America. ' By T. A. Conrad. 60 

 uncolored plates, octavo, 1840. $8.00. 



Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With 

 Illustrations of all the Species. By George W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate 

 paper, with duplicate plates, colored and tinted, $20.00 ; colored edition, 

 $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only one hundred copies printed, which have 

 been mostly sold. 



Monograph of the Fresh- water Univalve Mollusca of the United Stateb. 

 By S. S. Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. 

 Tryon, Jr. 2 vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, 

 $40.00 ; with colored plates, $25.00; with plain plates, $18.00. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 



Notice to Booksellers. All the Publications of the Society will be supplied 

 to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Wm. S. Vaux, Chairman of the Publication Com- 

 mittee, 1702 Arcli Street, or to the Librarian, at the Hall of the Academy, corner 

 of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



f London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 60 Paternoster Row. 



Agents, 

 January, 1873. 



New York, WM. WOOD & CO., 



No. 61 Walker Street. 



. Salem, Maa., NATURALIST'S AGENCY. 




CONTENTS CONTINUED. 



Report of Recording Secretary 421 



" " Librarian 428 



" " Curators 429 



" " Recorder of Biological and Microscopical Section . 432 

 " " Conservator of Concliological Section .... 434 



Officers for 1874 436 



Elections for 18Y3 437 



Correspondence of the Academy . . . . . . .439 



Donations to the Library . . . . . . . .443 



Index to Genera 463 



General Index ...... ... 469 




CONTEN^TS. 



Thos. Meehan. Law of Seed Germination in Swamp Plants . 363 

 Aubrey H. Smith. On Growth of Talimim teretifolium, Pursh 363 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. On Distoma hepaticum 3G4 



E. Goldsmith. Analysis of Chromite from Monterey Co., Cali- 

 fornia . 365 



E. Goldsmith. Stibiaferrite, a new Mineral from Santa Clara 



Co., California 366 



Thos. Meehan. Corrections in Nomenclature .... 369 

 Edw. J). Cope. On Stone Circles in the Rock}^ Mountains . 370 



Edw. D. Cope. On Types of Molar Teeth 371 



H. C. Chapman, M.D. Disposition of Flexor pei-forans, &c., in 



Paradoxurus musanga. Gray . . . . . .372 



E. T. Cresson. Descriptions of Mexican Ichneumonidae . . 374 



Thos. Meehan. Fertilization of Yucca 414 



Thos. Meehan. Note on a Fungoid Root Parasite . . .414 

 Thos. Meehan. On the Expansion of the Coma in Asclepiadacese 415 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. On Lingula in a Fish of the Susquehanna . 415 

 Jos. Leidy, M.D. Remarks on Fossil Elephant Teeth . .416 

 Edw. W. Cope. Remarks on Fishes from the Coal Measures at 



Linton, Ohio 417 



Edw. D. Cope. On Fossils from the Miocene Formations of 



Colorado, &c. 419 



Jos. Leidy, M.D. On Circulatory Movement in Yaucheria . 420 

 Prof. Louis Agassiz, Resolutions regarding the death of . . 420 

 Isaac Lea. Description of seven new species of Unionidae of 



the United States .......... 422 



Isaac Lea. Description of three new species of TJniones of the 



United States 424 



J. S. Newberry. Notes on the Genus Conchiopsis, Cope . . 425 



[for remainder of contents, seb 3d page.] 








